

Y
w:
Only
£lO
for this f 3.5
Model B
Cine-Kodak
formerly priced at
£25
sdgfsd
k,
w
A
m
mm
'Wt.
«xS
7i?
Si
it
m
a
ava*
Ml
i
£
m
■m
k
: v-
m
m
W/%t
M
$6
II
It
a,
•r»
&
V)
l
m
.
PM
a
mt.
m
man,
Wjyfm
KPS
5®
fc J
IjjS
*3
iYw
fci v
:
* r * i! S.*-'l
Ik •Z j- «■• ; ;:,
■ ■ k * 9 0§m m k 1
Ilkrs'Jii!!!:‘.l
Bilk 1 *** vi
I ■ B fi ® * *" § k >,!;
sr
*2*
u
9ft
.it !,
*v ;* vl/
1
>, x<+ .
,
The biggest home movie bar-
gain in history! Just in time
for you to make your own price-
less records of the opening of
the Sydney Harbour Bridge-
records in living motion—pre-
serving forever the glamor and
pageantry of the occasion.
It’s a genuine Cine-Kodak! No cranking no tripod—just
sight and press the release. High-speed f/3.5 anastigmat
lens, with automatic exposure guide. No experience neces-
sary. Good movies certain from the very first. Only a few
left—make certain of yours!
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS AND
sd
(AUSTRALASIA)
PTY. LTD.
ď
379 George-Stjeet. Sydney; “The Block," 284 Cfollins Street. Melbourne. Cl ; 250-252 Queen Street. Brisbane;
37 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street,/Hobart; 662 Hay Street. Perth; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba
East Street, Rockhajnpton ; Flinders Street. Townsville.
Also, stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND LTD. 162 Queen Street. Auckland ;40 Princessj Street, Dunedin;
294 Lambton Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo Street, Christchurch.
The Bulletin
V/ko dud dsMXjvulkb 'Ghjdmy MaA&xrt B'udfju ?fi s
Vol. S3.—No. 2712.
Wednesday, February 3, 1932
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


o ur Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
araii
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,"
100 Hassell Street, Melbourne
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
ttool-let. explaining how to Write lor Protit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ’ ° S
My Name .
fifo Address
S.B. 132 ~
jpTTTTT7T®T777
Syßiticura k9oap.
People of every country
who realize the importance
of clear skin should use
Csiticura Soap for the
daily toilet. It is pure and
contains the medicinal and
antiseptic properties of
Caiticaara which soothe
and heal as well as cleanse
the skin.
Price 1/-. Sample free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keep moving forward —pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
lias been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Soxcing the Seeds of Better Business."
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
‘THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
THE PATRIOT
đ
' AND ALL BRISBANE READS \1
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “ Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Tows
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class Action.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should road the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to yisit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,.
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
d
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same da> publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
tull formation, copies, advertising rates °of “The Examiner ” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable jrom;
AV. R.
73-
Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
•75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Mostly About Murderers
England’s best-known assassins have been
done to death by writers as well as hang-
men. So many articles, monographs and
novels have been written round the careers
of freaks like Peace, Cream and Crippen
that they are becoming drugs in the literary
market. That, no doubt, is why Sydney
Horler has ignored most of them in Black
Souls (Jarrolds; Bs. 6d.). Constance Kent,
who at 16 slew a little boy, for no ascertain-
able reason, is the only one he mentions
whose name and ill-fame are known wher-
ever the English language is spoken. His
two longest chapters are devoted to Ameri-
can crimes. “Messalina and the Corset
Salesman” is the story of the Snyder-Gray
murder, which occurred in Queen’s Village,
a suburb of New York, in 1927. Snyder
was a middle-aged art-editor with a frivo-
lous wife, who fell in love with Judd Gray,
a traveller in corsets. One of the most
interesting features of the crime was the
seemingly watertight alibi established by
Gray, who helped the lady to strangle her
husband. He got a friend to book in the
name of Gray, and speak on the telephone as
Gray at a hotel many miles from Queen’s
Village on the fatal night; and he might have
got away with it (despite Mrs. Snyder’s con-
fession implicating him, after 15 hours under
the third degree) if he hadn’t made the
murderer’s usual slip. The detectives found
part of a railway ticket and a crumpled note
from Mrs. Snyder which proved that he
had been in New York on the material date.
The accomplices were electrocuted on the
same night in Sing-Sing. This was the
execution at which a reporter smuggled a
camera into the death-house, and got a
picture of the woman as the current was
turned on. The Hall-Mills case (“The Min-
ister and his Mistress”), which is also
handled in detail, so gripped the U.S.A.
public that “no fewer than 14,000,000 words
were circulated by the reporters during the
trial.” Someone murdered the Rev. Ed. W,
Hall and his parishioner and paramour,
Mrs. Eleanor Mills, paying particular atten-
tion to the latter. She was shot three times
in the head, and also had her threat cut
from ear to ear. Love letters written by
the victims to each other were placed
between the bodies. The widow and her
two brothers were tried and acquitted after
what was known as “the billion-dollar de-
fence.” They promptly brought a libel
action against Hearst’s New York “Mirror,”
which had summed up the evidence and
given a premature verdict against them,
claiming a million dollars. Hearst settled,
though the view of the class from which
libel jurors are usually drawn was that
they were lucky to get off. The rest of the
Black Souls are British. They are examined
on scrappier lines than theiir American
cousins, but in a similarly melodramatic
spirit, for Mr. Horler is primarily a writer
of thrillers.
Arthur Lambton’s Echoes oj Causes Cele-
bres (Hurst and Blackett; Robertson and
Mullens; 12s. 6d.), is a more important
work in every way. The author is the
founder and honorary secretary of the
Crimes Club, which has such eminent
writer-members as Mrs. Belloc-Lowndes
and Miss Tennyson-Jesse, and has spent half
a lifetime investigating the methods and
motives of breakers of the sixth command-
ant. The Balham Mystery is the only
stock horror in his gallery. Mrs. Cox prob-
ably murdered Charles Bravo. She had
every chance to poison his wine, and he
stood between freedom and happiness for
beautiful Mrs. Bravo, to whom she was
devoted. As a contemporary wit put it:—
When lovely woman stoops to folly
And finds her husband in the way,
What charm can soothe her melancholy?
What art can turn him into clay?
The only means lier aims to cover
And save herself from prison locks
And repossess her ancient lover
Are Byrgundy and Mrs. Cox.
The “ancient lover,” by the way, was Dr.
Gully, whose son became Speaker of the
House of Commons. The other crimes
range chronologically from the killing of
the Hartgills under the supervision of Lord
Stourton in the sixteenth century (his Lord-
ship was granted the privilege of being
hanged with a silken halter) to the Gut-
teridge case, which is famous for the patient
work by which the Crown got a conviction.
Police-Constable Gutteridge was shot with
an out-of-date service revolver firing black
powder in September, 1927. For four
months the authorities experimented with
every old sendee
revolver that came
their way, and
finally got on the
track of the one
that had done the
job. Kennedy con-
fessed, and he and Brown were tried and
convicted at the Old Bailey in April, 1928,
and hanged with characteristic British ex-
peditiousness a month later. A ghastly
feature was the shooting out of Gutteridge’s
eyes after death. The author explains:—
It is a very old superstition with criminals that
the pupil reflects the image of the assassin.
(Browne thought his likeness would be reflected in
the dead man’s eyes.) Needless to say it is only
a superstition.
This is a book that every lover of what
Edgar Wallace has called “good, healthy
bloodshed ’ should buy or borrow. It is
beautifully got up, and the reproductions
of pictures and photographs are superb.
The Age of Arsenic, by W. Branch John-
son (Chapman and Hall; 12s. 6d.), trans-
ports the reader to the splendid, evil Court
of Louis Quatorze. In the second half of
the seventeenth century the Sun King was
beginning to tire of Louise de la Valliere.
His brother Philippe “was a homosexualist
whose affection was given to the Comte de
Guiche and later to the Chevalier de Lor-,
raine.” Gambling for crazy sums was rife.
(Mazarin used to play for stakes of 3000 or
4000 pistoles every night); and “correcting
the cards” was common. Plots of all kinds
—to oust royal favorites, make money, ruin
rivals—were in the air. Marsh’s tests for
arsenic were unknown, and food was highly
seasoned.
Koast meats were covered with scented powder;
game was served higher than it is to-day; sauces
of extreme piquancy were .popular ; wines were heavv
and full-bodied.
Enter the professional poisoner. A doomed
diner often had no suspicion that anything
was wrong till the death agony began. Be-
tween the middle of the century and 1680,
when the trial of La Voisin began, thou-
sands were poisoned in Paris alone, and the
police not only did nothing but refused to
believe that anything was wrong. Catherine
Montvoisin began as a witch, or, as we
would say, a fortune-teller. She read palms
and cast horoscopes. Her clients soon
began to demand more, and she passed from
prophesying that unwanted friends and
relations would depart to organising for
their departure.
She trafficked in poisons of all sorts; she pan-
dered to the licentiousness of the age; she per-
formed, or caused to be performed, innumerable
abortions ; she confessed to murdering two thousand
five hundred infants.
The Age oj Arsenic, is largely a record of
the strange people she served—Madame de
Dreux, who “had poisoned at least three
lovers, tried, to do away with the. wife of a
fourth, and made several attempts on her
husband”; the Marquis de Feuquieres, who
“wanted to secure for himself diabolical
protection against bullets and sword-thrusts,
and was also anxious to sell himself to the
Devil”; the Due de Luxemburg, Marshal
of France, who “sought the death of his
wife so that he might many his sister-in-
law, the Princesse de Tingrv, and who also
sought speech with the Devil.” A terrible
yet fascinating book. It seems all the more
bizarre when one remembers that Voltaire
was already alive when these superstitions
were entertained by the greatest in the land.
RED PAGE.
Story-writing without Tears
. A number of stories have been published
in England during the last year or so which
are, in effect, the same story. The action
began in each case in a train or car contain-
ing smart Londoners off to spend Saturday
to Monday, or longer, in the country. The
members of the house-party consisted of a
brilliant young man to whom several of the
ladies were eager to sacrifice their virtue;
a futile young man whose idol didn’t want
him; some .sophisticated but physically
innocent girls, and one or two comic Vic-
torians. Nothing of major importance hap-
pened. The characters came together, by
two and two as a rule; moved for a while
in private voids of their own in which they
quarrelled, philosophised, cohabited (or gave
reasons why they were unwilling); and
then they drifted apart, one felt for ever,
dhe loveliness of the English countryside
in summer; the excellence of English ser-
vants and the ordered comfort of English
country-house life; the stupidity and
humble status of the local clergy, were
stressed. You saw and smelt the gracious old
houses, the stuffy churches where most of
the visitors worshipped on Sundays, the
lush, sun-drenched landscapes—but' not in
relation to the visitors. They remained for
ever foreigners, as Susses; villagers still call
strangers; outlanders as alien to their sur-
roundings as Germans or Italians.
The latest of these books is Margaret
Kennedy s Return I Dare Not (Heinemann;
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“ TRUTH IN ADVERTISING "-The Highest Ideal,
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Anthony
Horderns*
GENUINE
SevSuA
School Clothing for
BOYS and GIRLS
'\
s.
4L)
IS T
25/- Boys’ School Suits for only
Here’s exceedingly
Suits. Made from
Well cut, strongly
to 13. Sizes . . .
Prices
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Prices . . .
good value in Boys School
a serviceable-quality serge,
maclo and finished. Sizes, 5
5,6 7,9
25/- 27/6
22/6 25/-
22/6
10, 13
30/-
27/6
49/6, 55/- Youths’ Suits now at
Young Men’s Suits in All-wool Tweeds. All are
thoroughly dependable qualities! Smart and inex-
pensive styles that appeal immediately to young
42/-
men from 14 to 18 years. Trourer legs in various widths.
All-wool Tweeds. Prices . 49/6. 55/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 427-
Fine Indigo Serges. Price ee /
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 55/-
Plain or Fancy Worsteds. Price 49/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 45/-
(Boys’ Clothing, Second Floor. We Pay Carnage .)
12/11 Girls’ Navy Blazers now at 10/11
Special value in Girls Navy School Blazers, in genuine Doctor
Flannel. Bound in Red, Gold, Royal, Saxe, Navy or Black
braid. Busts, inches 22, 24 26, 28 30, 32 34, 36
Prices 12/11 13/11 14/11 15/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Prices 10/11 11/9 12/11 13/11
15/11 Girls’Navy Serge Skirts 14/11
Girls’ Navy Serge Skirts. Finely knife-pleated, with detachable
washing bodice. Lengths, inches 24 to 42
Prices 15/11 to 25/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices 14/11 to 23/11
9/11 Girls’ School Blazers now 8/11
Special value in Girls Scliool Blazers, well cut and BnisKed-
Price ’/'I
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 8/11
( Maids’ Wear, Third Floor. We Pay Carnage.)
eo
o
LU
IXI
CO
a
a
•a
E
■
©
(m
m
(Ml
For School Wear In Patent Leather Girl’s College Shoe
Suitable for girls or maids, in
Black Calf, Tan Calf and
Patent Leather. Genuine
welted soles. “Hordura”
brand. Full and half sizes,
from 1 l’s to s’s. Anthony
Horderns’ Sale Price, 16/11
Special value in Patent
Leather Shoes for girls.
Neatly trimmed with Lizard
Calf. Strong sewn soles.
Sizes: 7 to 10, 11 to 1, 2 to
3, 4 to 5.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Prices, pair, 7/11, 9/11,
10/9, 12/6
( Children’s Shoes, Second Floor. We Pay Carriage.)
Stocked in Black Calf, Brown
Calf, Patent Leather and
Black Wallaby. A comfort-
able yet sturdily-constructed
shoe.
Sizes ..... 7to 1 0 1 1 to 1
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Prices, pair, 10/6 11/9
Maids’ sizes, 2t034 to 5
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Prices, pair . . 12/9 15/6
©
(ffl
Him
Calf Lace Shoes
"Hordura” Shoes Boys’Calf Shoes
A special offer in Boys’ Black
or Tan Calf Lace Shoes.
Rolled soles and heels. New
style square toes. All solid
leather. Keenly priced for
thrift-wise shoppers! Sizes,
1 to 5. Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price, pair .... 12/9
No shoes will give longer
service, more comfort or
greater satisfaction than
these Special “Hordura”
Shoes for Boys. In Black or
Tan Calf. Genuine welted
soles. Stocked in full and
half sizes.
Sizes 1 to 5 5 to 6J
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
" Prices . . 16/11 18/11
For boys and youths. Built
to afford long wear and
shaped to afford great com-
fort. Available in Black or
Tan Calf. Genuine welted
soles and rolled edges.
Sizes 1 0 to 1 3 I to 5
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Prices 14/9 16/9
(Boys’ Footwear, Second Floor. We pay carriage
fift.
'/fa
m
6k
25^5
IT
a*
/CT 3
In Glazed Panama Bleached Panama Natural Tuscan
Extra special value is shown
in this high-grade glazed
Panama Hat. Lined Navy-
blue straw. Excellent qual-
ity! Save 3/- by buying now.
Head sizes, 20, 2 1 and 22 in.
Untrimmed. Price . . 12/11
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price ...... 9/11
College Hat in fine bleached
Panama. Brim is underlined
Navy-blue straw. Trimmed
Navy-blue band and bow.
The popular hat for school
wear! Sizes, 19£, 20i, 21
and 22 ins. Price .. 6/11
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price
5/11
Girls’ Natural Tuscan Col-
lege Hats. Brim is bound and
trimmed band and bow of
Navy-blue ribbon. Fine
quality that will give service-
able wear. Sizes, 20, 21 and
22 ins. Price 5/11
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price 4/11
(Millinery, Third Floor. Box for Mailing 1/- extra.)
Leather Kit Bags
Solid Leather Kit Bags.
Made of genuine cowhide.
Strong ring-end clips.
Strongly made and lined
throughout.
Sizes
Ins., 12 14 16 18
Prices
14/3 16/6 18/6 21/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale —*
12/6 14/6 16/6 18/6
Attack Cases
Strong Fibre Attache Cases.
Two-clip fasteners. Metal
frame round body and lid of
case. Eight capped corners.
Inches, 12 14 16 18 20
Prices, 3/- 3/6 4/- 4/6 5/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Prices, 2/3 2/9 3/3 3/9 4/3
Cabin Cases
Strong Cabin Cases for
carrying and keeping clothes
in at school. Strong wooden
bands round case. Two
secure locks. Eight capped
corners.
fnches, 24 26 28 30
Prices, 17/6 18/6 19/6 21/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Prices, 13/6 14/6 15/6 17/-
(Travel Goods, Ground Floor, George Street.)
d
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Postal
Box 2712 c, GJP.O.


WWhWmMim..
Mil
■ -
mm
.pV^.'v
Ip
m
m
m
harxtts
SPARFZLIJVG
There’s life in the
mellowness of
McCallum’s....
ask for it!”
(DTaUums
CUhiskv
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LT D., Sydney Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
MACFARLANE BR OS. & CO., Hobart.
Backache
IS YOUR LIFE A
DAILY TORTURE?
Short, sharp stabbing pains in the back when you rise
from bed; real torture to straighten the body after stooping;
you say. Oh, this terrible backache! Do you know that the
painful symptoms you complain of are sure signs of dangerous
kidney trouble? Just as a creaky door tells you there is
something wrong, so painful, chronic backache, stabbing-like
pains when you bend or move, a constant, “tired-out,” “too-
old feeling, tells you there is hidden trouble in the body.
KIDNEY TROUBLE IS THE CAUSE
OF YOUR PAIN.
Chronic backache is in all probability the start of serious
lumbago, painful rheumatism, or perhaps bladder trouble.
They all point to one thing—kidney trouble. The kidneys
are failing in their action, uric acid poisons or harmful bacteria
are accumulating in the blood, with the result that sensitive
nerves send out their S O S to the brain to ask for help
that is why you suffer pain. Poisons are being stored up in
the blood, which, lodging in the muscles and joints, are
causing a state of inflammation. Until you prompt the kidneys
to filter out the pain-giving poisons, you cannot hope to be
rid of body and nerve-racking pains.
AAA t \. 11 / / 11 h/i/j/////'/ / ///.*,
DgWITTS
IDWEY AND BLADDER^'
v-y-it-i
Ml
mMmmmMmk
m
END THAT AGONISING
. PAIN TO-DAY.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills have ended chronic pain and
suffering when all else has failed.
Men and women in dreadful pain
for years say “De Witt’s” ended
that pain and brought them
health, strength and vigor in a
marvellAusly short time.
Sufferers from chronic back-
ache there is no need to sit in
dreadful pain wondering” if your
bod y-torturing, brain-racking
trouble can be banished. We are
convinced that, with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills taken
regularly, your suffering will
quickly end. Sold by chemists
everywhere, price 3/6 per box.
CONVINCING TESTIMONY
Mrs. Margaret Cunningham,
of 1, York Place, Rozelle, Sydney
(N.S.W.), says: “For 18 months
I suffered severely from chronic
backache, and could yet no rest
at night. One day I saw in the
newspaper an advertisement con-
cerning De Witt's Pills, so I
thought I would buy some. Two
bottles iccre all that was neces-
sary to bring me complete
relief."
Mrs. L. A. Bulley, 93 Chelten-
ham lioad, Burwood (N.S.W.),
says; “I cannot speak too highly
of De Witt's Pills, as when I
started them for lcidney trouble
I had been ordered an operation
and refused. Then I was recom-
mended to give ‘De Witt's' a fair
trial, which I did and got relief
at once. I am now in perfect
health."


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere,
including New Books of startling fact
POST FREE
Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/3; Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/4; Sex at
Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 11/5 ; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10 ; Enduring
Passion, by Marie Stopes, 7/10 ; Contraception—Birth Control, Its Theory, History and Practice,
by Marie Carmichael Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the
Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/10; The New Toxology—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/-; The Sex
Factor in Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/3; Hygiene of Marriage by Isabel Hutton, 5/-;
Exercises for Women, by Hornibrook, 5/4 ; Secrets of Successful Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay
Beale, 10/4; Realities of Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Youth and Maidenhood,
by W. M. Gallichan, 4/6; Eugenics and Birth Control, by J. Rutgers, M.D., 15/6;
Pitfalls of Marriage, by W. M. Gallichan, 6/3 ; Wise Wedlock, by Dr. G. Courtenay
Beale, 10/3; Physical Culture Simplified—A Complete Course of Physical Culture, 6/3;
THE BRIDGE SOUVENIR.
The Wonderful Structure is depicted in photographic studies from its
beginning to the completion of the great arch. A three-color picture of
the bridge is included, and full particulars of structural details, written by
Dr. Bradfield, are given in the letterpress.
PRICE 1/-, Postage 2d. extra.
The Culture of the Abdomen, by Hornibrook, 7/10; Sex Problems and Their Solution, by Haydn
Brown, 5/5; Sexual Science, by Dr. A. A. Philip, 4/6; The Book of Nature, 3/9; Cocktails and
How to Mix Them, 3/11; Foulsham’s Letter Writer, 3/4 ; Cards for Three, by Basil Dalton, M.A.,
3/1; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”), 2/1; Popular Card Games and How
to Play and Win, by F. Ings, 1/5 ; The Book of Luck, by H. G. Souter, 1/5 ; Foulshani’s Best
Short Prose Recitations, 3/4; Mystery of Your Palm, by Psychos, 3/4; Table Rapping, 2/6;
Practical Palmistry (Illust.) ; Saint-Gennain’s, 3/3; 12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A.
Romance of Runnibede
BY STEELE RUDD.
FOR 20 YEARS THE GREATEST FIGURE IN AUSTRALIAN FICTION.
A fine AUSTRALIAN STORY, with the true atmosphere of the bush
permeating every page, exciting incidents and a charming love interest
are blended in what is really a big story.
Cloth bound and illustrated.
SPECIAL PRICE 1/3 POSTED.
Belasco, 1/6; Ward Lock’s Letter Writer for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; The
Bulletin Reciter, 2/2 ; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/11; Every Man His Own Mechanic,
9/-; Boot and Shoe Repairing, 1/11; Clock and Watch Repairing, 1/11; Double-bed
Dialogues, 1/2 ; Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 6/-; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes,
21/-; Napoleon’s Book of Fate, 3/4; Zadkeil’s Dream Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4; Cheiro
Guide to the Hand, 4/1; The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3 ; Bulletin Book of Humorous
Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Prospecting for Gold (Australian), by lon Idriess, 5/6;
Diesel Engine, by Jones—Special Price—ls/-; 1001 Riddles, New and Old, 2/2; Impromptu
Conjuring, 3/3; Lee’s Guide to the Game of Draughts, 4/6; Chess Lessons for Beginners, 2/6;
Chess and Draughts, by Belasco, 1/5.
Try the Bookstall Co. First
WRITE FOR LISTS OF BOOKS ON SUBJECTS IN WHICH YOU ARE INTERESTED.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Robertson and Mullens; 7s. 6d.). The re-
semblance to Aldous Huxley’s “Chrome
Yellow” is remarkable. Young Hugo Pott
is an easily-recognisable playwright. He is
congenitally amiable, and his life has be-
come a burden as a result. He is avail-
able for the party because the married
woman to whom he belongs happens to be
in South America. The idea is that Lady
Aggie—socially powerful and still comely,
though somewhat stricken in years—shall
take him oVer, thereby gratifying herself
and furthering his career. Amongst the
other characters are Corny, Hugo’s gossip-
hunting shadow; Philomena, who proposes
to leave her husband with Hugo for a
while and then resume married life; and
Laura, whose virtue is being assailed by poor
Ford, with whom she had a one-night affair
before marriage. The Victorian “type” is
old Lady Geraldine, who owns Syranwood,
where the friends foregather, and a number
of illegitimate children. Also, there are two
virgin flappers who hover on the fringe of
this grown-up society, speculate about sex,
music, science and so on, arid sleep on the
roof. As in “Chrome Yellow,” one spends
an alfresco night with the hero. The dif-
ference is that Hugo and Marianne sleep in
romantic innocence beneath a haystack,
whereas Huxley’s young people sin material-
istically on the tiles. The party is a failure.
Lady Aggie goes back to London in a rage.
“This week-end’s been a flop,” says Hugo.
Philomena, who has had a row with her
husband over him, reveals the lacerating
truth:—
“You might as well know that we had some
difficulty to persuade Geraldine to invite you. She
was afraid you’d bring your publicity manager with
you. ‘lsn’t he rather a shallow little arriviste ?’ she
said.”
There is a hint at the end that the night
under the haystack worked a mighty change
in Hugo. He performs the symbolic ges-
ture of taking the down train while the
others, being still enslaved to London, take
the up. But you know he will be back in
the West End almost as soon as they are.
It is his spiritual home. Marianne won’t
marry him; she is no Constant Nymph.
Philomena’s husband will forgive her; he is
that sort of man. Nothing vital has hap-
pened.
The characterisation is brilliant, though
superficial. The talk is witty or funny, as
the situation requires. Whether Miss Ken-
nedy is writing about zygotes or music,
county society or poetry, she conveys a
satisfying impression that she knows her
subject inside out. Her story lacks orily
one feature—a story. A good story is a
hard thing to come by—a truth which is
emphasised in about 95 per cent, of the
new plays and talkies—and many modems
seem to be giving up the quest in despair.
The Victorians wrote dozens of amusing
plotless novels like Return I Dare Not
(Hichens’s “The Londoners,” for example),
but they were offered for what they were—
skits. Imagine a novel by Thackeray or
Balzac which left the characters in the ,air,
and the reader in doubt as to what hap-
pened to them!
J.D.
Ave Edgar!
Ranking with “Punch’s” classic of the
bookstall attendant who asked the browsing
patron if he “had read the midday Wal-
lace” is the story of the Yankee who
’phoned Edgar on one of his periodical
visits; to the States. “Sorry,” said the
novelist’s secretary, “but Mr. Wallace can’t
talk to you; he has just begun a new book.”
“Great!” responded the Yank, “I’ll hold
the wire until he’s through.”
The Yank probably didn’t have to wait
long. Wallace has admitted that “The
Strange Countess” was born after a turbu-
lent gestation of less than four days. The
publisher’s order came on Thursday for
70,000 words, to be delivered by noon the
following Monday, and Wallace, working
17 hours a day, beat the clock by a couple
of hours.
Ten million words!—and still going
strong, splitting infinitives and jugulars on
every other page of his 4000 words a day.
St. John Ervine has shown that there is
no mystical formula at the root of Wallace’s
mass production; that it is a matter merely
of simple arithmetic coupled with the
homiletical injunction “Work hard, my
son!” Four thousand words multiplied by
365, and then suitably paginated and bound,
means 18 novels a year. It shows what
system and application can do.
Unfortunately the Master has had to re-
fuse the requests of Continental police
chiefs to help them solve their mysteries.
By not going to Germany (where he is
bracketed with Shaw and Galsworthy) to
clean up the Dusseldorf murders, he lost
an opportunity of raising himself, practi-
cally, to the level of Poe and Conan Doyle,
each of whom solved an actual case. Poe’s
“Mystery of Marie Roget,” the archetype
of the modem thriller, was offered as the
solution of a contemporary New York
teaser, and it hit the nail on the head.
It is not recorded what part Doyle’s suc-
cess had in modifying the original judg-
ment of “Piffle!” passed on his work by Dr.
Bell, of Edinburgh, the original of Sherlock
Holmes, under whom Doyle studied medi-
cine. With less justification—since they
had no personal grudge to work off, unless
it were to Art—the critics have treated
Wallace and his confreres badly; the pro-
fessionals with their air of righteous for-
bearance, and the novices by at best admit-
ting their entertainment with an apology,
where no apology was needed except for
ignorance. Now that attitude is changing,
as it would have changed aforetime if those
selfsame critics had ever thought it worth
while to try to write a mystery yarn. Then
would they have discovered the insignifi-
cance, as a basis for attack, of butchered
infinitives and participles come undone.
Then would they have confessed, wiping
the sweat out of their eyes, what they
should have realised before—that Wallace’s
work is done before he writes “Chapter I”
■ and proceeds to discover the body; that his
indifference to little things like grammar
and syntax are merely scraps thrown with
a grin to the no-account, intransigent
pundits.
Even as I have confessed it!—l, who
once couldn’t stomach a detective story
because an ex-police roundsman knows how
unsleuthy real detection is, have written
one. Worse, another is on the stocks!
Let Edgar live that down—it. is happening
to thousands, and he started it.
A. R. QUINLAN.
A Satchel of Books
In Harbor (Hutchinson; 7s. 6d.) Philip
Macdonald introduces us to a murder mys-
tery in a quiet corner of the English country-
side. The unraveller thereof is a hefty
sailor, easygoing in normal circumstances
but ready with liis „fists, brawn and brain
when the need arises. The author never
refers to him by name. He is just “The
Sailor” and he moves through the sleepy
deeps of Derwick Abbas as the centre of its
romance and drama. A well-written, well-
built thriller.
The London “Mercury” for November is,
amongst other things, a triumph of the
printer’s art. Five different type faces have
been used in the production, and the general
effect is beautiful. There are half a dozen
attractive woodcuts of English rivers, and
an article by A. G. Macdonell on Noel
Coward, which presents the British drama’s
wonder-boy in a new light. Detractors like
H’arinen Swaffer deny him any merits beyond
stagecraft; the very young rank him with
Congreve; Mr. Macdonell suggests that his
best work is to come and that it may be
great.
Treachery to the Soviet in the matter of
selling, and misappropriating the proceeds
of, some fabulously valuable Russian jewels
leads to the vengeance, of the O.G.P.U. Three
mysterious murders give Detective-inspector
Du Cas a chanoe to do some brilliant deduc-
tion. What the clever little mail builds up
from a footprint on some garden clay is
grippingly told by Sir 11. M, Imbert-Terry
in Clay (Skeffington; 7s. Gd.). Du Cas
threatens to become quite a figure among the
mystery-solving brotherhood.
Harm Wulf, by Hermann Lons (John
Lane; 7s. Gd.), was a best-seller in Germany.
The period is the Thirty Years’ War, and
the characters are peasants who were
harassed by marauders till The Werwolves,
as the hero and his followers came to be
known, organised themselves into a kind of
seventeenth-century Ku Klux Klan. The
story is a record of merciless slaughter by
both sides. Peace came suddenly, and Wulf,
who had waded waist-deep in blood for so
many years, broke ’down: He “slept and
slept and slept; he slept for three and a
half weeks.” The translation, by Marion
Saunders, is mostly in that style and it
makes the novel hard to read, but those who
love horrors should find the effort worth
while.
The Pacific Inlands Year-Book for 1932,
compiled by R. W. Robson and issued by
Pacific Publications of Sydney, is a volume
which Australia, with its century-old trade
with the Pacific Islands and its latter-day
commitments in the Possession of Papua and
the New Guinea mandate, will welcome.
Compactor than its predecessors published
under other auspices, and up-to-the-minute
as regards its information, the book is an
indispensable guide to all having to deal
with Pacific conditions from the Mariannes
to. the Marquesas and from Hawaii to Pit-
cairn. Statistics, commercial and vital, of
the islands are accompanied by brief and
interesting sketches of their history. The
tourist seeking new experiences in the South
Seas is as well catered for as the man who
is looking for information in terms of £ s. d.
And a Little Verse
AN END OF IT.
Kiss—shut my eyes,, for they are tired of
seeing
This mockery of being.
Kiss—close my mouth: it is so cold, so cold,
And all its tales are told.
And kiss my throat. .. .hard, hard, until its
breath
Fails, O strong lover Death !
VICTORIA.
NANCE WILSON.
THE POET.
Slave of a tyrant pen’s harsh discipline,
Uselessly sifting for a theme sublime
In weary travail with the stubborn rhyme.
A solitary, haunted by the djinn
Of discontent, he loathes the songs he sings
Since each fair phrase, created patiently,
Bears witness that his lines can never be
A tithe as lovely as his visionings.
Too well he knows that he may look in vain
To find perfection in the things he writes,
For always must achievement’s sweet delights
Be tempered by dissatisfaction’s pain ;
Yet he, while hand and brain toil wearily,
Self-knowledge gains, and learns humilitv
VICTORIA.
JOHN STANLEY.
LADY’S BIRTHDAY.
Many happy returns of the day
That gave such joy to me.
We used to kiss and say
Many happy returns of the day;
But now ’tis blown away..
Only in dreams I see
Many happy returns of the day
That gave such joy to me.
N..S.W -
RONALD MCCUAIG.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.K.D.: Too long for our space. Also get
down off those stilts. Your last par. is a shocking
example... .T.J.L.: Why make Old Tom tell the
yarn? Why not tell the yarn yourself, and save
wear and tear of about a hundred harassing quota-
tion marks ?... .E.E.H.: You miss the austerity of
grief. But there’s a quiet charm in it. Glad to
hear again... .S.J.C.: Don’t go “after” anyone. Be
yourself... .C.H.S.: You’ve got a sense of the pic-
torial, at any rate.... Constant R.: You’ll have to
be a constant writer, too, before you can hope
for print.... Abe G.: “Then why aren’t all of us
cheerful and cheery?” The answer is taxes, bunions,
the sad saxophonist on the corner, the oyster which
got past and shouldn’t have, beach pyjamas and
noisy motor-bikes.... E.M.E. : = Sorry, but you’re
letting artifice have rather too much say....
J.O.C.
I love to rise in the morning
When the dew is on the grass.
If you find it good for freckles, let the “Woman’s
Mirror” know, will you?....Olive A.: Old tags,
and not a bit of honest feeling in it... . K.A.J.:
No ; but we’ve never before met “white-soap lather”
in a reincarnation... .W.D.W.: Time-worn.... Hugh
G.: There are busy days when we have as many
as half a dozen dream-ships jostling one another
for anchorage in the basket. Try another theme.
.... Rex J.: Reads like the first act of a good old
bellowdrama.... J.H.R.: Poor company. But not hope-
less... .L.S.D.: That shipload of cats was set down
at a point on the shore of the Bight, about 1897. The
rabbits continued their westward progress; the cats
disappeared... .A.W.H.M.: “Age” is withering stuff.
No use for articles in that strain. .. .C.A.T.: “Old
Horse” past vetting... .J.A.W.: Childish... .S.W.K.:
Ballade has a good refrain but doesn’t quite make
the grade. .. .0.F.: Fair story in dreadfully feeble
verse... .P.H.: Can find no thrill in it.. . .McJingle:
Ode to Whiddon’s grin firmly declined M.J.S.:
There’s a fine idea in “The Fugitives,” but you make
heavy going of rhyme and metre L.A.: A trifle
too artificial. Let yourself go a bit more....
A. : You cut through all the canons like a
scythe through daisies.. . .A.W.M.: Try it on the
New Guard... .E.L. Creaky doggerel... .Barbarian:
There’s a fair couplet or two, but you’ll have to
condense and polish a lot before you see print....
R.G.11.: Can’t do much with a lover who feeds his
girl on ortolans. Why not fish and chips ?. .. .
T.8.F.: Your alliteration has an appeal, but only a
comic artist could do justice to your lady kangaroo
who “frowns or sweetly smiles on various beaux.”
.... F.T.: Stick to earmarks and brands and leave
odes and sonnets alone... .T.G.: Dolorous. .
Simmo: A painful experience in even more paiiiml
verse... .F.D.: You take too long to say too little.
. ...L.1.W.: “Mulligan’s Mate” warned 0ff....
B. : Could be worked into something a lot
better... .C.J.W.: Jane is an uninteresting chronicler.
. ...G.W.8.: More smartly dressed it might catch
the eye of the editor of a woman’s paper....
J. 5.8.: Tighten it up, give it a neater twist at
the end, and send it in again... .W.M.8.L.: You’re
poaching on J. H. M. Abbott’s preserves. .. .T.C.H.:
An impossible happening, and crudely told withal.
..... J. 0.0.: Very near... . R.W.C.: All smoke and no
fire. .. .L.A.S.: Not quite up to the mark... .G. 5.11.:
Try it on a travel magazine... .R.R.: Only worth a
par... .M.W.H.: Hasn’t a pennyweight of literary
quality... .H.C.8.: Save it until a similar occur-
rence happens; then Are it at one of the dailies.
.... .M.M.8.: Not what we want... .D. 8.: Your
prophetic soul didn’t deceive y0u.... J.S.W.: There
was a yarn in it, but you sent only the 5he11....
E.S.L.: Can’t quite decide whether it’s meant for rhyme
or blank verse... .P.L.S.: Dismal. . .P.J.1.: Too thin.
.... D.L..J3J.; Some too much like a telegram, others
too much like a cryptogram.... Faldo: Like eternity,
without beginning and without end....A.5.: “Vic-
tory” overlong, and, as it seems to us, entirely unreal.
. ...8.T.0.: It descends too often to wallow in melo-
drama.... M.J.’G.: You show humor, observation, too,
but the verse is on the wishy-washy side... .T. 5.8.:
Nothing in it, not even the ghost of a grin... . XYZ:
“Icy heart,” “airy nonchalance,” “chilly armature”
a more suitable equipment for a refrigerator than
for a bride... .Evan' G.: Too long for these short-
paper days... •H.'VV.O.: Your sunset’s nothing to
write about... .E.C. (W.A.) : No sense of rhyme;
no sense of anything, in fact, except the obvious....
A.G.: Your verse is hungry buck quartz, with
never a grain to the t0n.... Pat: Drefful... .E.A.V.:
“The Parson and the Child” has a faint glimmer
of promise; the rest are rhymed futilities... .R.G.:
Well, six lines; and if she still loves you, don’t
blame us:—
I love my intended.
Once my life seemed really ended.
Her hair is dark and looks so neat,
She really is bonzer ftom head to feet.
She has beautiful limbs, especially her arms;
There’s nothing more graceful than my bundle of
charms.
But it’s never safe to specify like that —the lady
may take it to be a reflection on her legs....
II.B.: Rhymed platitudes. And not too much of the
rhyme either.... Echo: Too slushy for our digestion.
... .F.M.: Capital stuff for a school paper... .D.R.: If
you could write as well as you know the place you
would do H.E.P.: Buy a dictionary W.H.M.:
Be sure of what you want to say before you
start A.T.: Dialogue weak L.G.: Drowning
girl, brave young man, marriage—an old and easy
plot. .. . S.N.: You’re a slow starter. . . .F.K.: Have
met that confidence-man before.... Y.W.: Not with-
out merit, but not what we require... .J.C.8.M.:
Familiar characters in a familiar setting... .8.P.:
Burglar Bill’s reformation doesn’t ring true....
5.C.8.: A literary shrimp... .W.E.: The ponderous
introduction was enough.... C.A.P.: Two thousand
words about a drunk stung with a thistle!... .K.S.:
Dismal.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.G.: You can’t make that wheeze new by giving
it another setting... .A.J.M.: “Drawn on the Spot”
wasn’t worth the trouble you went t0....A.R.:
Don’t scratch like a dog with fleas... .G.P.L.: Who
is it supposed to be, Gandhi or Hughes?... .E.P. :
What superb eyebrows you draw!... .N.H.: Life-
savers have the physique but not the wit... .P.8.M.:
Fashion-plate art and an overworked jest... .5.0.:
If you can’t draw a cup and’ saucer how can you
expect to draw a curate ?... . M.W.H.: Cartoon six
weeks too late. ... J.L.: Be kind to you I Were
you kind to us when you sent that?


ď
I
( g
m
:
-~Wm
■
mm
&
I
m
u
’**• ;*•** "
SI
'ii
%
r*m f
■
*Wf
:' I
H
: :
I—H^
sill
iWWWi
m
’ : :
lilii I
■
:■: ■:
■-’'•■■
K
**SSf
»
££
■H
i 1 |
Hi
gjlgfif
M—
m
■
S
.
' 'S
I
■: •••■,.'•
•••••
I
*
■I
■ : ■ :
m
HU
i
/
' |y®
is * 3 i
I :
mgm
H
' - ; g,,. f: •
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2712.
February 3, 1932.
THE FAKIRS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
liox 2521 BB; >Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westualia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 11/ Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 Jjs.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. (id.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. jor 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. jor 4oz. To all other
places: Id. jor 2oz.
WE ARE STILL DRIFTING.
As The Bulletin has been trying to show
for many years, Australia’s financial pro-
blem is really two problems—one concerned
with gold, the other with paper. All through
the ’twenties the former was much the more
important, though little attention was
given to it. We had contracted to pay an
amount which gradually rose to 30 mil-
lions a year in gold or sterling, and there
, were only two ways of doing it—(l) by
an excess of exports of gold or merchan-
dise over imports; or (2) by borrowing
abroad. All through the mad years we
adopted the latter course, and were thus
enabled to import far more than we ex-
ported. When we could not borrow any
more, the situation was saved only by cut-
ting down our imports by nearly two-
thirds; and even then we had to almost
skin the country of its gold reserves, com-
mandeering for the purpose all the gold
in the trading banks. Aided by two extra-
good seasons and lately by the deprecia-
tion of sterling, our gold problem was thus
shelved. Default was for the time saved;
whether we shall continue to save it
depends upon future policy with regard to
imports and to some extent upon seasons
and prices—in short, upon the maintenance
of a surplus of exports.
The paper problem was even easier to
defer. The gold problem could only be
satisfied by gold or goods that would sell
for gold, and nothing that we could do
would reduce the total of interest and debt
charges we had to find. The paper pro-
blem was one which could be met or partly
met by using up our credit; and, further, to
some extent the size of the interest bill
was under our own control. The Premiers’
Plan, adopted in Melbourne, was a scheme
for thus grappling with the problem: (1)
by public economies, thereby reducing the
demand upon our credit, and (2) by re-
ducing the interest payable on our domestic
debt. Both have had good results; but it
is time to realise that the position is still
very serious, and that a great deal more
must be done. We are still drifting.
In the bad old days a deficit never
troubled us. It was a deficit, and that was
all there was about it. But it was
a fact then, as it is a fact now, that a de-
ficit is not a mere matter of book-keeping;
somebody has actually to find the money.
In the old bad day.« we got over that
trifling difficulty by what we called “fund-
ing the debt”; we raised a loan and paid
off the floating liability. To-day, it would
be impossible to float a loan abroad, and
a local loan would be a very doubtful pro-
position; hence our deficits must be carried
by the banks, whether they are willing or
not, and no matter how it may cripple them
in their dealings with their private cus-
tomers. On all hands it is admitted that a
return to prosperity requires an extension
of credit to industry and commerce; there-
fore, since public deficits stand in the way
of that extension of credit, their reduction is
a matter of first importance. How, then,
are these public deficits shaping?
When the Premiers met in Melbourne and
considered their Plan in May last year, they
found that the aggregate deficit of Aus-
tralia (Commonwealth and States) in 1929-
30 had been 11 millions, that the estimated
deficit for 1930-31 was 31 millions, and for
1931-32 no less than 41 millions. It was
of course too late then to do anything
with the disaster of 1930-31; but by econo-
mies and cuts it was planned to reduce the
total for 1931-32 to a little under 15 mil-
lions, of which 54 millions would be N. S.
Wales’s share. On present appearances, not
only will this N. S. Wales figure be left
well behind, but the aggregate will be ex-
ceeded also. But taking the aggregate
figure at the original estimate we get a
total deficit of 57 millions in three years.
When the crisis reached Australia in Oct.,
1929, the total floating debt—Common-
wealth and States —was 18 millions; at the
end of December it was over 774 millions.
Almost the whole of that has been squeezed
out of the banks in Australia.
Now this burden would not be so heavy
had the banks not been already very large
holders of public securities. To what extent
the Governments and public bodies are in-
debted to the Commonwealth Bank alone
was shown in a memorandum addressed to
the Treasurer in April of last year. Includ-
ing advances of 19 millions made to local
Government bodies and 7 millions of
Treasury bills held by other banks and sub-
ject to discount by the Commonwealth
Bank, the total at that time reached an
exceedingly disquieting 130 millions. And
every deficit must add to that total. As
Mr. Lang discovered last year, you cannot
have a deficit without getting the money
from somewhere to have it with. Mr. Lang
got his from the Government Savings Bank
of N. S. Wales, as it then was. We all know
the result—it is the Savings Bank of N. S.
Wales no longer. And meanwhile tens of
thousands of the best citizens have been
distressed and many have been robbed and
more have been humiliated. Precisely the
same conditions do not apply to the Com-
monwealth Bank. It can always save itself.
But there are circumstances in which it
can save itself only by violent currency in-
flation; and we shall reach those circum-
stances unless we are very careful.
As to the relative responsibility of the
several Governments concerned, the posi-
tion is quite clear. Between the onset of
the crisis (October, 1929) and Dec., 1931,
the floating debt had grown in this way:—
Oct., 1929. Dec., 1931.
Commonwealth.. .. £3,545,000 £18,445,000
N. S. Wales . . . , 5,028,000 31,004,000
Victoria .. .. 4,656,000 12,736,000
Queensland ~
S. Australia . . ~ 3,185,000 7,516,000
Westralia . . . . 1,750,000 6,993,000
Tasmania . . . 891,000
Total .. .. £18,164,000 £77,585,00(1
Thus the total increase during the period
has been 59 millions; and N. S. Wales
has been responsible for 26 millions, or
44 p.c. of the total. And it has piled up this
huge floating debt—in plain English, it has
rifled the banks’ deposits and other re-
sources for this huge amount —notwithstand-
ing the terrific burden of taxation which it
has laid upon the backs of its people—a
burden so oppressive that men even on the
bread-line must now yield over £lO a year
to this tax-gathering cormorant.
The deficits will not reduce themselves.
On the contrary, unless further action is
taken they will inevitably move up again
because of the very severe reduction which
must be looked forward to under almost
all revenue heads, on one side, and because
of the natural tendency of all Government
expenditure to creep up, on the other. Mere
tinkering with salaries in the public service
is playing with the great problem of eco-
nomy. Between 1925 and 1929 —in the four
short years that preceded our crisis—Com-
monwealth taxation went from 52.8 millions
to 56.3 millions, and State taxation from
22.9 to 32.4 millions, a total increase of 13
millions, or nearly 18 p.c., in four years.
There might have been some sort of justi-
fication for this had Australia been enjoying
a great advance in production during this
period. But recorded value of production
actually fell from 454 to 447 millions during
this period.
WHO DID DESIGN THE BRIDGE?
In 1922 an Act was passed by the N.S.W.
Parliament authorising the construction of
a cantilever or arch bridge over Sydney
Harbor. Dr. Bradfield had proposed the
cantilever type, and in 1921 had been in-
structed by his Minister to proceed with
plans; he had, however, urged that it would
be better to invite tenders from con-
tractors who would submit-detailed plans of
their own to suit the steel 'with which they
proposed to work. Within these limits Dr.
Bradfield made drawings of a cantilever
bridge and then went to Europe and
America to interview probable tenderers. In
his travels he ascertained that contractors
were willing to tender for an arch-type,
the Hell Gate bridge with a 1000 ft. span
having been successfully constructed; hence,
the arch was joined with the cantilever in
the authorising Act.
Tenders were invited. Now, one of two
courses is usually taken by an authority
asking for a bridge. It may call in an
engineer and have complete plans and speci-
fications prepared, in which case the con-
tractor puts in his price and leaves it at
that; or the authority states generally where,
the bridge is to be built, what clearance is
to be provided, what load it is to carry, the
general appearance in relation to surround-
ings and so on. In the latter case the con-
tractor may make various designs, with
accompanying tenders, in the hope that if
he misses with one he may land the job
with another. Where complete detailed
plans and specifications have been prepared,
it is obvious that there can be only one
tender by each contractor.
In connection with the Sydney work a
middle course was adopted. Instead of
complete detailed plans and specifications
being prepared, the contractors being
invited to say the price for which they
would do the work, they were invited to
tender on specifications which could be
varied in many particulars. They were not
tied down to any particular material; the
structure might be “wholly of carbon steel
or silicon steel, or wholly of alloy steel, or
partly of carbon steel or silicon steel and
partly of alloy steel”; and a plan that would
serve for one steel would certainly not serve
for another. Again the bridge might be
“constructed wholly of built-up fiiveted
members, or the tension members” might
be “constructed of evebars and pins.” Also
“the lengths of spans, the outline of
trusses, the details of bracing, the number
and pitch of cross girders and stringers”
and many other things might be varied
“if economy and enhanced appearance
can be obtained by so doing.” To this
invitation, allowing great latitude to the
tenderer, six firms responded; and the
extent of the permissible variations is shown
by the fact that these six firms submitted
no less than 20 tenders. After examination
by Dr. Bradfield the tender of Dorman
Long was accepted; and the extent of the
variation in their plans, etc., from those
submitted as the basis for tendering may be
judged by the fact that, whereas Dr. Brad-
field proposed 33 panels, the accepted tender
was for a bridge with 28 panels. In the one
case there was an even number, with a
centre point; the other has an odd number,
with a centre panel. The rise of the arch
proposed by Dr. Bradfield was 370 ft.; the
rise in the bridge tendered for and built is
350 ft.
That the tenderers were to submit their
own designs was further made clear in the
specification. Clause 162 read that “details
shall be so designed that all parts will be
accessible for inspection”; and clause 164
went further: “Main me,mbers shall be so
designed that the neutral axis will be as
near as practicable in the centre of the sec-
tion.” Moreover, the successful tenderer
had to accept “entire responsibility not only
for the material and construction of the
bridge, but also for the design and plans
furnished to or by him.” In those circum-
stances it is highly probable that respon-
sible contractors would just as soon have
had no plans at all. “If,” Ralph Freeman,
Dorman Long’s engineer, wrote —“if Dr.
Bradfield had produced a good photograph
of Hell Gate bridge and said ‘This is the
kind of thing we want, but enlarged to suit
our span and railways,’ he would have con-
veyed more to the contractors tendering.”
But that does not alter the fact that
Bradfield did produce plans and a specifi-
cation, and the fact that Freeman went over
the whole business, prepared entirely new
plans and made variations, some of them
highly important, does not prove that Brad-
field’s were not good plans. Had Freeman
not made any variations at all he would
still have been bound to go over the whole
business and do just as much work as if
no plans had been in existence —that was
the inevitable result of making the con-
tractor responsible not only for the work
and the material but for the design. But,
assuming no variations were made, the fact
that Freeman would go over the whole busi-
ness and prepare entirely new plans would
clearly not make the design his. The question
therefore is: What effect did the making of
variations in Bradfield’s plans and specifica-
tion have? If Bradfield was the designer
before, was he still the designer?
Suppose a man wants to have a house
built. He knows just what accommodation
he needs, what kitchen and other conveni-
ences his wife insists upon, the shape of
the rooms he requires, and so on. Having
some facility with a pen he works out
front and side and rear elevations and a
ground plan, plans the grounds and the
approaches and draws up a specification
and hands it to half a dozen building con-
tractors, with instructions that if they
tender they must accept full responsibility
for the design and plans as well as for the
work and materials; They would say “Your
plans are not much good to us in those
circumstances. It would have served quite
as well, perhaps better, if you had merely
given us photos of a house something like
you want, and told us what you want dif-
ferent.” But if they accepted—as they
would be bound to accept—his design in its
main features, whose design would it be?
The owner’s, who knew what he wanted and
made rough sketches accordingly, or the
builder’s, who saw how much better job he
could make by varying them?
So we probably get somewhere near the
truth of this bridge matter. Bradfield pro-
duced certain plans and specifications, em-
bodying a design; but he did not produce
complete and binding plans and specifica-
tions. It may be that he did not do this
because he felt he was not capable of doing
it. Whether he was capable of doing it
we don’t know—never shall know. Free-
man certainly was capable of doing it; we
know that because he did it. Having made
the contractors responsible for design as
well as for work and materials, most of the
work done by Bradfield was entirely un-
necessary and superfluous and wasteful. The
bridge that was built was not Bradfield’s
bridge, but it followed in its main features
Bradfield’s no doubt incomplete plans.
Freeman built up the plans from A to Z.
He had to, the contractors, his employers,
being responsible for them. But that alone
would not make the design Freeman’s, any
more than a general practitioner’s course of
treatment in a case becomes the consulting
physician’s because the latter goes over the
patient and checks up and agrees with what
the g.p. has done. It is a matter of greater
difficulty to determine whether the treat-
ment is the g.p.’s or the consultant’s when
the latter varies the treatment a little. If
they have any sense they will not quarrel
about it.
The Government proposed to put up a
tablet naming Bradfield as the designer.
The contractors threatened that if the Gov-
ernment proceeded to do this they would
seek an injunction. While The Bulletin was
making its exhaustive investigations, a
settlement was reached and a compromise
tablet agreed upon. It is not a bad com-
promise, but The Bulletin thinks it can
suggest one more entirely truthful:—
This Bridge was Built Prematurely and
at Wicked Cost with Borrowed Money by
Dorman, Long and Co., Ltd., who Ten-
dered on a Form oj Contract and Specifica-
tion prepared jor the Government of N. S.
Wales by Dr. Bradfield. But as the Con-
tractors had to Take Full Responsibility
for the Design, and as the design was Vari-
able, and as they Didn’t Know Bradfield,
they, not being Quite Daft, put their own
Engineer, Ralph Freeman, on to the Job, and
he so Altered Bradfield’s Incomplete Plans
that Nobody knows now who did really
design the Thing we Can’t Afford. But it
is Plain that, in the circumstances, most
of Bradfield's work was superfluous; and
this Tablet is put up as a Memorial and a
Warning of the Wastefulness of Govern-
ment Enterprise from its Inception to its
Completion.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Lost Sense of Values.
The war robbed us of most of our sense
of values. Or, rather, we deliberately threw
it overboard. What were shockingly bad
manners and conduct before the war became
quite good during the war, because we re-
fused to associate bad manners and conduct
with the men who were, in fact, misbehav-
ing. In much the same way we refused to
see extravagance in the conduct of public
men whom we were trying to think of
as inspired only by the highest patriotism;
further, we feared, many of us, to suggest
that economy might be practised even in
war, lest we should be accused—as we cer-
tainly would have been—of being pacifists,
defeatists and probably pro-Germans. So a
generation grew up in an atmosphere of
entirely false values —grew up to regard as
normal what was built upon the most abnor-
mal conditions the world had ever known.
Now we are faced with the job of bringing
these few hundred million people back to
earth; and the task is all the harder because
the millions include the most vigorous and
forceful: young people mostly of from 20 t 035.
When we consider the casual way in
which men talk in millions, the situation
becomes more than astounding—it grows
alarming. The other day the N. S. Wales
Minister for Public No-works met a depu-
tation at Casino. It demanded first that
work should be resumed on the Casino-
Bonalbo railway. When he pleaded that
the Government had no money—“ Well, get
the-money!” he was told. When he pleaded
that there were already 40 non-paying lines
in N. S. Wales and that the State could
not stand another, “Then increase the dole!”
the deputation demanded. When it was told
that that was just as impossible as the
other, “Cut out the dole altogether,” one
man suggested, “and let us help ourselves.”
And there we see starkly the danger to
which this loss of values has brought us.
Well, we have got to crawl painfully back.
We have got to realise that the figures to
which we have accustomed ourselves are
as unsubstantial as those that people dreams.
We talk airily of a deficit of 40 millions;
of an excess of expenditure over revenue
in one State alone of seven millions for
six months; of a floating debt of nearly 80
millions; of a total public debt to the Com-
monwealth Bank of over 130 millions. We
shall know better what those figures mean
if we realise that down to 1900—in all the
hundred-odd years of Australian history—
we had accumulated a total public debt of
just under 200 millions; on June 30 of the
following year, the total was still only 203
millions. The total debt of N. S. Wales
at June 30, 1901, was 67 millions. In the
mere two years and two months between
Oct., 1929, and Dec., 1931, the State had
gone into debt to the banks alone to the
extent of 26 millions—money got merely on
overdraft and other forms of floating loan.
The total expenditure in 1929-30, apart alto-
gether from loan outlay, was 124 millions
for the States. In 1901-02 it was only 29
millions, and that figure was reduced to 28
millions in the following year.
Wherever we look we shall find this
astounding growth in expenditure, in taxa-
tion and in debt; and the worst of the growth
was in the 10 years prior to 1929. These
figures cannot be maintained: the only pos-
sible way of pretending to maintain them
is by some system of inflation, whose after-
effects would almost certainly be terrible.
»
The Home Market for Farm Products.
The gentlemen who are talking so contemp-
tuously of Australian secondaiy industries,
and who profess to believe that the pri-
mary industries are almost wholly depen-
dent upon exports, obviously don’t know the
facts.
The “Commonwealth Year-Book” divides
the production of Australia into six groups
—agriculture, pastoral, daily and farmyard,
mining, forestry and fisheries and, lastly,
manufacturing. Going back over ten years,
1920 to 1929, both inclusive, we get from
that authority these aggregate figures:—
Percentage of
Total Production
Production. Exported.
Agriculture .. •• £900,663,000 3(.78p.c.
Dairy and farmyard . . 462,940,000 19.99 „
Pastoral . . .. . . 1,077,372,000 66.71 ~
Mining 218,945,000 68.97 „
Forestry and fisheries .. 116,044,000 16.66 ~
Manufactures. .. .. 1,315,733,000 3.97 „
Combining the first and second groups we
find that only 31.3 p.C; —less than one-third


.—of the production was exported, the bal-
ance of more than two-thirds reaching a
local market, mainly among the producers
of' the £1,315,733,000 worth of manufactures.
The export of primary products is,’ of
•course, of very great importance. Nobody
wants to deny that; the community was
never so ready to admit it or eager to
assist the export industries. There was a
time when it was said that this export trade
was of such consequence because it enabled
us to pay for imports. We know now, or
should know by this time, that its most
important function is to pay_ our interest
bill and so save us from default. But what
has to be clearly understood is that exports
will not do that for us; only the surplus of
exports over imports will do it. In other
words, if we can increase our exports only
by increasing imports, we are no better off
so far as our debt charges are concerned.
So the export industries’ best market is
still • at home; in Australia they sell over
two-thirds of their agricultural and daily
produce, and even in the pastoral industry
one-third of the production is locally con-
sumed. We can destroy much of that home
market easily enough by destroying the
secondary industries upon which it depends;
but we should be in great danger of destroy-
ing the primary industries in the process.
And there never was such a danger of that
as at this moment, when every foreign
market for primary products is utterly un-
trustworthy.
■ ♦
Default.
Twelve months ago even a suggestion of
default horrified almost the whole com-
munity. Nothing can show better the tre-
mendous change which has come over us
than the obvious fact that to-day default
is accepted as the lesser of two evils; in-
deed, is in many quarters actually welcomed
as a likely way of escape from the Lang
Government.
There is such a thing as inescapable de-
fault; and for the defaulter in such circum-
stances there is usually nothing but
sympathy. This is not a case of that sort.
Behind the Lang Government is a power
which not only sees no disgrace in default
but can find advantages in it. Mr. Lang has
told us that the revolution is in progress.
We have had no plans and specifications of
this revolution, but, judging by its opera-
tion, it means the “expropriation” or seizure
of private property and its division among
those who have none. The whole course
of N. S. Wales legislation during the .past
12 months has been directed towards that
end. No attempt has been made to get the
unemployed back to productive work; on
the. contrary, the dole has been increased,
taxation has been made heavier, private
enterprise has been abolished where possible
•and thwarted elsewhere, and one step after
another has been taken to sovietise. industry
by putting its control into the hands of
the Trades Hall. Default has been delibe-
rate to this extent, at any rate —the whole
policy of the Lang Governemnt has made
it inevitable.
So long as Mr. Lang could get money
-.from those who had it, to distribute among
..those who were otherwise kept without it,
■he was quite content: it suited the Bolshe-
;vik plan to “bleed capitalism white” and
-so destroy its power to finance private enter-
prise. If he could use the Federal authority
for his purpose, so much the better: this-
put two agents of destruction in the field
-instead of one. So long as the Scullin Gov-
ernment remained in power the bleeding
process went on; for unfortunately Scullin
was dependent on some of Lang’s friends
for the votes that kept him in office. When
•the Lyons-Latham Government followed,
Lang no doubt still had hopes. He trusted
:to our old horror of default to compel the
new Ministry to provide the money neces-
sary to avoid it. He made a mistake. That
way default would have had to come sooner
or later. The Lyons-Latham Government
.very properly realised that the sooner it
came the sooner could its causes be
removed.
There may be a momentaiy panic abroad,
but the facts will soon be realised. The
Commonwealth Government permits- default
not in order that investors in any Aus-
tralian securities may be robbed but to pre-
vent them being robbed. It takes this bold
step because it sees no other way of ending
once and for all the disastrous career of a
State Government whose policy, if carried
further, would make default on a vast scale
inevitable.
The whole proceeding will, however, be
futile and worse than futile unless Sir Philip
Game now sends his Ministers to the
masters whom they have so shamelessly
misrepresented. It is too early yet to take
any steps beyond that; but, in view of Sir
Philip’s amazing inertness hitherto, a further
step must of tourse be prepared for. The
Bulletin has already indicated what that
step might be—a resolution of both Houses
of the Federal Parliament, communicated
by cable to the Dominion Minister.
«
High Wages and Starvation.
One of the surprising features of our
national life is that, at a time when de-
pression lies so heavily upon the land and
tens of thousands of our people are in the
sorest distress, a great many others are
apparently enjoying as much prosperity as
ever they did. The labor report of the
Commonwealth Statistician, brought down
to June 30 and lately published, supplies
the explanation. Though wages have fallen,
the purchasing power of money—including,
of course, wages— risen rather faster,
so that those- who have kept their jobs
and are in constant work are better off than
they were before the wage cuts took effect.
The average nominal weekly rate, as
ascertained' by the Commonwealth Statis-
tician after an inquiry covering 4000 occu-
pations, reached its peak in the quarter
ending Sept. 30, 1929. For that period
the average wage was £5 Is. sd. for men
and £2 14s. 2d. for women. At June 30,
1931, the averages were respectively
£4 10s. sd. and £2 9s. Bd. The average rate
had fallen 11 p.c. But, owing to various
circumstances, the fall was not uniform
throughout Australia. In N. S. Wales,
Queensland and Westralia it was only from
8 to 9 p.c.; in Victoria and S. Australia
it was 15 p.c. The workers in the former
group of States were, however, no better
off than those in the latter group, because
the purchasing power of money had risen
6 p.c. more in Victoria and S. Australia
than elsewhere. Accepting the Statistician’s
figures, this means that, though labor costs
had fallen 6 p.c. more in, say, Victoria
than in N. S. Wales, the workers were still
as well off in Victoria as in N. S. Wales.
Indeed, they were better off because,
Victorian industries being in a much better
position to compete for inter-State trade,
there was less unemployment south of the
Murray than north of it.
The Commonwealth Statistician’s figures
are supported by independent investigations
made by another worker in the same field
and published recently in the “S. M.
Herald.” Fie finds that, whereas between
June, 1929, and June, 1931, there had been
a decline pf 8.1 p.c. in nominal wages in
N. S. Wales, 14.1 p.c. in Victoria, 9.2 p.c. in
Queensland and 15.3 p.c. in S. Australia,
after allowing for the changes in purchas-
ing power the increase in real wages had
;been 7.86 p.c. in N. S. Wales, 6.44 p.c.
in Victoria, 9.68 p.c. in Queensland and 9.57
p.c. in S. Australia. Thus, on this calcu-
lation, in the State in which the decline
in nominal wages had been greatest, the
rise in real wages had also been greatest.
It is unfortunately not Hue that nominal
wages mean nothing, though that proposi-
tion is often put .forward. It is true that
a man is neither better nor worse off with
£6 a week than he was with £3 per week if
the purchasing power of his money has been
halved—that is to say, if the cost of living
is doubled. But where the high-wage indus-
try has to compete in a market with the
low-wage industry, the low-wage industry,
other things being equal, must win. Thus
the maintenance of high wages with a cor-
responding high, cost of living, while it does'
the worker no good in his own market, actu-
ally does him harm when his goods go into
an outside market. This explains why
N. S. Wales, with all its natural advan-
tages, is suffering such great distress at
present. All State wage tribunals except
that of N. S. Wales have made heavy cuts
in the basic wage; in N .S. Wales an effort
has been made to maintain nominal wages.
But, as the effect has been to keep up the
cost of living, the worker has been no
better off when his product has been sold
in his own market, and he has been handi-
capped when his product has had to go out
of his own market—either to some inter-
state market or overseas. Thus on the
figures put before the Loan Council last
week by the Prime Minister, unemploy-
ment is so much greater in N. S. Wales
than elsewhere in Australia that, because
of this loss of wages, the decline in average
real earnings in that State is greater than ’
elsewhere, the figures being 17.02 p.c. as
against 13.63 p.c. in Victoria and 1.43 p.c.
in Queensland.
Public Works Swindles.
N.S.W. Minister Davidson confessed the
other day that his Government had no
money for public works. Yet it had the
gall to place £2OOO on the Estimates for the
“remuneration” of the Parliamentary Public
Works Committee, whose four Assembly
members are excessively “remunerated”
already. Last year an item of £2500 figured
in the Budget that was brought in 17 days
before the close of the financial twelve-
month, and £lO5O was actually paid in fees
for the perpetration of perfectly useless
inquiries. In addition £706 was provided for
a secretary, £992 for two clerks and a typist
and £35 for expenses. Printing costs are not
given, but for 43 years voluminous evidence
and recommendations for and against all
sorts of proposals have been collected in
Government publications and shot into
newspaper offices all over the country,
generally to be shot out again unopened.
But the printing bill, substantial as it has
been, is not the hundredth part of what
the Parliamentary Public Works Commit-
tee has cost the taxpayers. Since the first
set of politicians was appointed in 1888, it
has been the means of burdening the
country with unpayable railways and tram-
ways galore. In his report for 1930 the
harassed Commissioner Cleary gave a list
of railways which insatiably eat up tax-
money, and these were included:—
Losses
Line. Cost. (1929).
Glenreagh-Dorrigo • • . . £1,381,100 £87,640
Condobolin-Broken Hill . . 2,079,900 83,762
Barmedman-Rankin’s Springs 396,500 24,185
Wyalong-Cargelligo . . . . 344,245 20,633
Richmond-Iturrajong . . .. 150,800 16,522
Tarana-Oberon . . .. 167,800 11,280
Craboon-Coolah . . . . 141,500 10,769
Yanco-Griffith .. .. .. 173,400 9,127
Uranquinty-Kywong . . ... 24-0,000 15,711
Ungarie-Naradhan .. ' .. 254,700 18,029
The Uranquinty and Ungarie lengths were
not opened till near the end of 1928-29;
the losses given are for the first full twelve-
month. All these lines, and portions of
many other money-losers, were recom-
mended by the Parliamentary Public W orks
Committee, and so were the undermen-
tioned extensions, of which the unhappy
Cleary gives this melancholy account: —
Estimated Estimated
Line. Cost. Annual Loss.
Guyra-Dorrigo . . . . £2,014,400 £128,000
Moss Vale-Port liembla . . 1,385,200 76,000
: Casino-Bonalbo .. .. 949,500 54,700
Tempe-East Hills .. . . 709,900 62,400
Camurra-Boggabilla . . . . 498,400 28,900
Also recommended by the committee and
authorised by Parliament, but not yet
undertaken, the loan money having given
out, are the subjoined troop of white ele-
phants :
Estimated Estimated
Line. Cost. Annual Loss.
Sandy Hollow-Maryvale . . £1,431,900 £90,700
St. Leonards-Eastwood . . 929,300 71,600
Canowindra-Guyra . . . . 232,900 14,300
Inverell-Ashford . . . . 262,000 17,080
Gilgandra-Collie .. .. 153,500 13,000
Rand-Bull Plains . . . . 175,900 10,500
And for making such idiotic recommenda-
tions these politicians received additional
rewards! The Commissioner reports a loss
of £4,421,600 last year on railways alone,
with nothing allowed for depreciation; and
the politicians who advised the construction
of most of these tragic railways were paid
for their rotten advice—paid £2500 a year,
in addition to their salaries, their gold passes
and the free use of the Parliamentary club
and librae! And with a deficit of £9,370,000
impending this fool-committee still exists!
Seeing that the Government has no money
for works, as Davidson admits, there is no
need for a separate Minister of Works, or
for a Minister’s secretary or chauffeur, or
for half the expensive staff (numbering 615,
according to the Budget papers) by whom
the ridiculous Davidson is surrounded.
There is emphatically no need for the
Parliamentary Public Works Committee or
its outfit.
♦
Tracies Hall Tyranny.
From Charles W. Fearn:—
The reply by Mr. O. Schreiber, General Secretary,
Federated Furnishing Trade Society, N.S.W. Branch
(B. 27/l/’32), to my statement, printed in The
Bulletin of 20th January, 1932, under the heading
“Trades Hall Tyranny,” is, to describe it mildly, a
mass of falsehoods. Let us examine the so-called
“facts” as outlined by Mr. Schreiber.
“Upon the occasion of ' his going to N.Z. he
di'ew his clearance (No. 320, 30/4/’29), but since
his return, though informed by Mr. Archer (ass.
secretary) that he should lodge his clearance from
the New Zealand society, thereby automatically re-
joining here, he has not done so.”
As I was not employed in the trade in N.Z., I had
no connections with the N.Z. union, and obviously
could not have obtained a clearance card from a
body I had not been connected with. Upon my
return to Australia, in January, 1930, however, I
returned the unused clearance card issued to me
by the N.S.W. branch, and was readmitted by Mr.
Schreiber himself. No question was then raised
about my not haying a clearance card from the
N.Z. union. At the time of returning I was still
a financial member of the N.S.W, branch, holding
a 1929-30 membership card.
“In consequence Mr. Fearn has not been a member
of the society in N. S. Wales for upwards of three
years'.”
Untrue. Upon my return from New Zealand I still
held my 1929-30 membership card, which expired
on August 31, 1930. At its expiration a new mem-
bership card, from September 1, 1930, to August 31,
1931, signed by the man who asserts that I have
“not been a member of the society in N. S. Wales
for upwards of three years,” was issued to me.
“Notwithstanding the above facts, and evidently
believing that he had a case at law against the
society, he took steps to have proceedings taken
by the Legal Aid Department; but upon our being
given the customary opportunity of tendering a
written statement setting out our version of the
matter, the projected prosecution was abandoned.”
Untrue. The case has not been abandoned. The
papers are still in the hands of the Legal Aid
Department.
“I would like to add I have at no time myself
seen Mr. Fearn nor had any personal dealings: with
him.”
Untrue. I had a 10-minutes’ conversation with him
at the union office on August 26, 1931 ; my wife
was present at the time. I also frequently saw
and spoke to Mr. Schreiber, and he spoke to me,
during the period when I was a constant visitor to
the union office seeking employment.
In conclusion, let me address a question to Mr.
Schreiber. Does he think that it is decent and
right that an honest, trustworthy workman and a
life-long trades unionist, anxious for employment
and able to obtain work if permitted by his union
to take it, should be prevented from earning his
.daily bread, should be forced to live next door to
starvation, with a hopeless future ahead of him?
Will Mr. Schreiber, who is in receipt of a good
salary, who can enjoy the comforts that a regular
salary can purchase, answer that question for a
man who, through no fault of his own, is faced
with stark and terrible poverty?
■ ♦—
The Archibald Prize.
John Longstaff has been awarded the
Archibald Prize for the fourth time; and
that circumstance, coupled with the fact
that Mclnnes has won it six times, and is
young enough to win it 20 times more, has
once again raised the question whether a
law should not be passed altering the terms
of the bequest. It may be taken for
granted, however, that Parliament would
not do anything of the kind unless it was
satisfied that the deed does not rightly
interpret Archibald’s intentions.
The Bulletin, which may perhaps claim
to know its founder’s mind as well as any-
one, is not so sure on that point. It has
to be remembered that, though a great
genius, he was an eccentric genius. It is
urged that the purpose of the bequest was
to encourage portraiture in Australia, and
that he would therefore naturally desire to
assist young painters of promise. He did
greatly desire to encourage the young and
the unknown; the story of The Bulletin
itself is the best proof of that. On the
other hand he strongly desired also to keep
artists of all sorts in Australia. He was
always afraid—almost terrified—of losing
the men he had gathered around him: he
hid little stores of their work in desks and
drawers against the day when the magnets
of Europe and America should have drawn
them from him and his paper. He may,
therefore, have had it in his mind to do
something, not only to encourage portrait-
ure in Australia, but to retain good por-
traitists in Australia; and that suggestion
is strengthened by the fact that Australians
living outside their own country are barred
from the competition.
Whatever The Bulletin’s sympathies
may be, it cannot see the overwhelming
evidence which a Parliament ought to re-
quire before altering the terms of the
bequest.
♦-
The Rattler Front.
“Gad” on his travels:—
At present things are not so quiet on the rattler
front. The other day I boarded a train at South
Grafton (N.S.W.), unobserved, at day-dawn; but
before the train moved out the guard came along,
searched every truck and turned me off. I waited
about and boarded the train again when it was
moving out. This time the guard stopped the
train and expelled me with abuse.
Of course the guard was just doing his duty, but
it seemed hard. I had selected a truck which con-
tained heavy metal things—quite unpinchable.
Besides, my foot was badly blistered. As things
turned out, I had to walk the 20-odd miles to
Coifs Harbor, and since then have had to have my
foot dressed twice daily in the local hospital, owing
to its septic condition.
The most exasperating feature of this train-jump-
ing business is its variability. At times one gets
an “open go.” At other times one is liable to be
shot at. - I know of an instance in Queensland in
which a constable actually did open fire on a re-
treating mob of bagmen whom he w'as unable to
“surround.” I know of another instance in Queens-
land where black-trackers, armed with waddies, have
been used to chase., surprised train-jumpers. And
yet another where two Alsatians helped the sergeant
in performance of a similar office. Yet in other
parts (and even in those same parts at different
times) there will be an open season for rattler-
jumping.
The trouble is one never knows whether the rattler-
jumping season is open or closed. And this exas-
perating variability extends also to the amouiit of
sentence one is liable to receive if caught travel-
ling on the rattler. I have known men to get 24
hours. A few to get the “rising of the Court.”
Others to get a month or six weeks. And - one
unfortunate youth (of 19) to get a month “hard
for merely being found in a truck which never moved
at all.
I realise, of course, that things are lost in transit
on the trains, and this loss is put down to bag-
men travellers. But things were lost on the trains
long before swagmen ever thought of jumping the
rattler.
The majority of bagmen have given up walking
—-mainly for two reasons: (1) It is a profitless
effort; (2) it is impracticable in their badly-shod
condition. It is time the Railway Commissioners
realised that, even if they get killed in the attempt,
bagmen will continue to try to jump trains. In fact,
so desperate have some become that a new vogue
—riding on the buffers —has been introduced.
All this waste of energy could be t oed by put-
ting on a spare truck And it might save many
lives. Such a polio” would certainly have the
result of killing the mm, - ce of rattler-jumping. But
it would prevent the cultivation of a growing feel-
ing of lawdessness which is a dominant note amongst
the more youthful element on the track; a feeling
which glories in the sensation of giving “the Johns’
a run for their money. There is great danger in
that.
»
The Blight of Langism.
Duking the past week The Bulletin lias
stumbled upon three enlightening inci-
dents in connection with the N. S. Wales
public finances.
Case I.—This occurred in a city (Sydney) factory.
A man getting £4 ss. a week had had a run of
extra-bad luck. He had had sickness in his home
for weeks, and a death in the family, and on his
wage he had had a struggle to pay the high cost
of living and make ends meet. This unfortunate
man, who could truly be said to be on the bread-
line, had to pay £lO 12s. in unemployment relief
tax in the past 12 months!
Case 2. —A farmer had a quantity of good seed
wheat. The Government said it would buy it for
cash. Delivery was made in December. “Cash”
payment was made in the following May. Mean-
time the mail’s own bills had to remain unpaid.
Case 3. —A farmer owed the Government about
£6O. The Government had a lien over the crop.
He delivered the crop, and the Government col-
lected the cash for it—something over £2OO. That
was in one of the first weeks of the year. The
Government paid him the balance of his money
in June. Meantime the poor beggar had been living
largely on boiled wheat.
Nobody who knows what is liable to happen
will give the Government of N. S. Wales
credit now on the usual terms. As much
as 25 p.c. is put on to cover risks, delays
and (in some cases) expenses about which
the less said the better. The storekeepers
and others who must give credit to the
farmers and others who depend on Govern-
ment payments also put up their prices. It
is indeed difficult to find a matter or a
place in N. S. Wales which isn’t affected by
the blight of Langism.
»
The Conflagration in Asia.
The dangers lurking in the outburst be-
tween China and Japan are appalling. If
Japan attempts to make, or looks like
attempting to make, the vast amorphous
territory a Japanese province, it is hard to
see how the world’s peace can be kept.
Every nation may hate war. But until an
international police force can be devised
with power to suppress every attempt on
the part of any nation to raise an army of
its own, peace will be a delusion, and the
worship of it a hollow pretence. The best
hope for the moment seems to be in so
stout a Chinese resistance that Japan may
be as willing as China apparently is to listen
to reason.


w
s'"
s£4
tMEAIfciS
E . f
EASTER, 1932.
Opening of the Sydney Harbour
BRIDGE
One of the greatest events in Australia’s
History! The Hotel is filling rapidly
make reservations now to avoid possible
disappointment.
Reduced Tariff on a “Room Only” basis
gives visitors the benefit of our lowered
costs.
Single Room 10/6 per day
Double Room .... 20/- per day
Telegraphic Address
“Austraotel, Sydney.’
The
Hotel
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
Sydney.
đ
£3O
£25
£2O
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, _ with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
1 I 6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
N.S.W. —Never Saw Worse.
“Give me another half a million,” said
Lang, in effect, to the Loan Council, “or I
won’t pay £958,700 due to my overseas credi-
tors on Monday.” “Do what you please,”
was Lyons’s reply, “but you shan’t get
another penny. And if you default the Com-
monwealth Government will bring you to
book.” As always happens when anyone
stands up to him, Lang was startled into
silence; he left hurriedly without saying
another word.
Sydney was nervously wondering at the
week-end what Lang would do next. He
can do nothing more harmful to it than he
has done already if —as seems to be the
SCALER JACK: “Gimme another pile o’ notes,
or I’ll scale again an? spoil the game.”
case—Federal power has at last fallen into
firm hands. His capital levy on the insur-
ance cos. can be blocked by a Commonwealth
law passed in virtue of section 51 of the
Constitution (clause XIV) : “Insurance,
other than State insurance; also State in-
surance extending beyond the limits of the
State concerned.” Piratical taxation can
also be rendered null and void by a strong
and skilful exercise of section 109: “When a
law of a State is inconsistent with a law of
the Commonwealth the latter shall prevail.”
Lang has a crooked mind, but he is no
hero, and if a strong course had been taken
with him when he defaulted last year he
would have gone straight—or as straight as
it is in his nature to go. Default, on the
part of a State Premier was then.—and is
now—so serious a matter and so perilous to
the Union that th» national Government
would have been warranted in placing it in
the category of offences “against any law
of the Commonwealth” (Section 80), and,
if the Act making it such were flouted, in
causing Lang to be tried “on indictment....
by jury.... at such place or places as the
Parliament prescribes”—Grafton or Alice
Springs, perhaps. Instead, the Scullidcres
began a High Court case reluctantly, pro-
crastinated, and accepted Lang’s pretended
submission without proceeding to judgment.
Even the fear of being committed to prison
for contempt by a High Court Judge would
have had a wholesome effect on the mob
leader who rules by fear —mob leaders are
often chicken-hearted. Now default has fol-
lowed default, and the Commonwealth’s job
will have to be begun all over again.
The Vic. Labor conference rejected the
retiring executive’s report, censured it for
accepting the Premiers’ plan, and “warned
all members of Parliament that any further
support of the Premiers’ plan will result in
their exclusion from the party.” The cen-
sure motion was carried by 129 to 79. Con-
ference has settled the hash of the Hogan
Government, and Hogan and some of his
followers may find it impossible to remain
in the party. But Mrs. Micawber Scullin
protests that she will never leave Mr.
Micawber.
Queensland is buzzing like a disturbed
hornets’ nest over Lyons’s proposal that
revision of the sugar agreement should be
discussed. Sugar is a sacred thing in
Bananaland, and even the politicians of the
opposing State and Federal parties are
joining forces against revision. Still out-
and-out repudiation is not suggested (though
it has been suggested by the enemies of the
gold bounty) and discussion can do no harm.
It will do the sugar people no good if the
impression is established in other States
that in no circumstances will they share in
the sacrifices which so many other industries
have had to make.
The Commonwealth Government ought lo
tax lottery prizes again and apply the
receipts to a reduction of its crippling income
tax. It used to take 124 p.c. of gross prizes,
but waived the tax to help Tasmania. With
Lang’s lottery and the Golden Casket com-
peting with Tattersall’s sweeps the conces-
sion is now of little use to the Speck; and
anyway it is not for Lyons-Latliam, with
serious work on hand, to favor the non-pro-
ducer. With the taxgatherers grabbing up
to £l6OO from £5OOO of “earned” income,
and up to £2500 from £5OOO of property
income, it will be monstrous if the lucky
gambler’s £5OOO is left tax-free.
It looks as if unemployment-relief is to
be made a separate State department in Vic-
toria, so big have the operations become. As
a first step the Labor Bureau and the Sus-
tenance Branch are to be amalgamated. Im-
position is rampant, though not to the
N.S.W. extent, and the number of “investi-
gators” has been increased —again not to the
N.S.W. extent. The blessed words “reorgani-
sation” and “co-ordination” are being used
a great deal by Cabineteers and their
advisers, but nowhere in Australia do they
mean much.
The Labor Convention which sat recently
in Brisbane debated whether it should be
in favor of Young Age Pensions—every
youth and girl to be a subsidised pauper up
to the age of 14. It is reckoned, or it was
when the population was rather smaller, that
at ss. per w r eek per offspring the job can
be done for £3.650,582 p.a., but there are
already propositions that the allowance
should be larger, and should last longer.
Queensland’s “Tory” Government expects
the deficit to reach £2,320,000; still, the cap-
ture of three Senatorial seats has cheered
the Labor dieliards considerably.
The Federal Country party has issued a
manifesto saying that it is resolved
To support to the hilt any action taken by Mr.
Lyons to put into full effect the first plank of the
joint platform on which the Country party and
the United Australian party fought the elections.
That plank forecast the dumping of the Labor
Tariff of Abominations.
The term Tariff of Abomination is borrowed
from the old-time slave-owners of South
Carolina. There was no joint platform with
the morbid plank in it. There was general
conversation about the need for a lot of
reforms, most of all in the direction of
economy, but there was no “first plank”
about the promiscuous throwing overboard
of anything. The tariff is a matter to be
decided by the whole Cabinet, but Earle
Page insists on deciding it alone.
While waiting for the magistrate’s decision
in the Eric Campbell cast 1 , lawyer Sheahan,
who appeared for the Crown, spoke in sup-
port of Lang-planner Ward in Riley-street,
Surry Hills, and asserted that during the
war “the great majority of the 800 Guard
stayed at home to eat ice-cream.” Referring
“Mr. Eddie Ward, who was the first Lang-planner
to be elected —the first ‘default-and-be-damned' mem-
ber in the history of the Empire—is standing again
for East Sydney.”
VENTRILOQUIST: “Tell the people what you
think of me, Eddie.”
DUMMY: “Ladies an’ genelmen, ’e’s the
greatest statesman since Robin ’Ood.
An’ a vote for me is a vote for Jack.
to the New Guard’s petition to George V.,
the confident young man asserted that, “con-
stitutionally, the King cannot dismiss the
Lang Government, and furthermore he will
not do it.” This is great stuff for Riley-
street, Surry Hills. Mr. Sheahan will be
getting a Judgeship if he doesn’t look out.
The war in East Asia took a serious turn
when the Japanese, striking swiftly, made
themselves masters of Shanghai, outside the
foreign setlements. U.S. destroyers at Manila
incontinently left for Shanghai, and the
usual embarrassing ass of a politician sug-
gested an “economic boycott.” Doubtless
emboldened by this attitude, the Russians
SAM: “Why don’t you stop him? You’ve
got a league of Nations'.”
JOHN: “Why don’t you? You had your
Washington Conference.”
made some anti-Japanese gestures in Man-
churia. Australia may become involved as
a member of the League of Nations or as a
party to the Washington agreement, in which
it undertook, along with the other parties,
“to safeguard the rights and interests of
China.” The timely announcement has been
made that it has 27,954 enlisted men who
art. trained when the Government can spare
the money. It had 45,645 at the end of
June, 1914, when the population was about
1.800,000 less than it is now. On the other
hand, we have acquired heaps of civil ser-
vants.
Construction of the Sydney Harbor Bridge
was recommended by the Parliamentary
Public Works Committee in 1912. That
body reported that the waste of water couid
be spanned for £1,592,000 “without rail-
way” and £2,750,000 “with railway.” Silly
calculation and actual cost should be
engraved on a tablet, too, so that the people
may be warned to the remotest generation
to beware of politicians’ estimates.
The Premiers have been told in Mel-
bourne that there are 211,911 public ser-
vants, all “permanent officers,” and that their
salary and wages bill amounts to nearly
£60,000,000. This is a good deal more than
the entire revenue of Commonwealth
(£18,806,237) and States (£37,365,653) in
1910-11. There were 3,654,110 names on
the roll at the recent elections, but if there
had been time for revision 70,000 to 100,000
would have been struck off. It is safe to
say that public servants controlled one-sixth
of the votes cast. That perhaps explains
why there are so many of them.
Lyons points out that he didn’t exclude
the Country party from the Cabinet; in fact
he offered it three portfolios. * But when
Page demanded the Customs, saying it was
that or nothing, it had to be explained to
him that even if a Freetrader wangled the
tariff portfolio in a mainly anti-importing
Ministry he wasn’t going to transpose it into
a pro-importing Ministery, as the tariff is
a matter for Cabinet in general and Cabinet
has the general interests to consider. This
puts first, and foremost, the purpose of
keeping down the influx of overseas goods
to a point at which exports will pay for
them, and pay overseas interest bills, and
gradually pay off the overseas overdrafts and
short-dated loans, which are expected lo
reach £80,000,000 by June.
A way out of many difficulties would be
to make the occupier of premises responsible
for rates and taxes, as in England, instead of
the owner, If the same person occupies and
owns the position wouldn’t be changed much.
In England rents are much lower than they
are here, but the occupier is liable for poor
rates, paving and street maintenance and lots
of things, just as he is for his gas bill. The
tragedy of some States is that the owner of
small properties hasn’t a chance of collect-
ting any rents, and may be sold up himself
for inability to pay taxes. It is an easy
and popular device to enact that the hard-up
tenant needn’t pay rent, and it would be
almost as easy, but not so popular, if a
separate Act of Parliament were required to
enact that he needn’t pay taxes.
Queensland Government head-counters are
not pleased with the decision of J. E. Walker
to retire from the representation of Ipswich.
He won the seat last time from D. A. Gled-
sen, who had held it ever since “Vote-for-
Jimmy” Blair, now Chief Justice, went
down. Always a democratic electorate,
Ipswich has a strong railway workshops vote
for Labor. There is also a big cocky ele-
ment, and it was the cookies who put Walker
in. He is a son of the soil, and to find
someone as well able to keep the seat out
of Labor’s clutches is bothering the party
heads.
Mrs. Longman, M.L.A., has been advised
to abandon Bulimba, the Assembly seat she
won from Queensland Labor, and put up her
name for Maree. In the redistribution a
chunk of Bulimba’s anti-Labor quarter was
added to Maree, which, though it had pre-
viously returned Labor members, did so by
small majorities. It is considered that addi-
tions to Bulimba have made it a fairly safe
seat for any Labor candidate, and this may be
the one selected for Mrs. T. J. Ryan, if that
lady elects to enter Parliament. Mrs. Long-
man is disinclined to leave her original elec-
torate, and the unregenerate are hoping that
she will come out for Bulimba, and Mrs.
Ryan, too. Such a contest would be a
novelty in Australia, though familiar to
Britons.
Half a century ago the relative posi-
tions of the six Australian States (then
colonies) were very different in point
of population and importance from what
they are to-day. In 1873 the order of pre-
cedence stood: Victoria (estimated popula-
tion, 790,492), N. S. Wales (560,275), S.
Aus. (198,257), Queensland (146,690), Tas-
mania (104,217). Westralia (25,701). The
table now reads (1931 figures) : N. S. Wales
(2,504,536), Victoria (1,795,522), Queens-
land* (952.453). S. Aus. (582,928), West-
ralia (420,12*,i. Tasmania (219,694). So the
second has overtaken the first, the fourth the
third and the sixth the fifth. Westralia
shows the biggest comparative increase, her
population being nearly 17 times what it was
in the ’seventies, while the Speck’s has little
more than doubled.
“N.S.W. Trades Hall officials, perturbed by the
speeches of the leader of the New Guard, are
demanding drastic action.”
BASHER LEADER: “No true democrat minds
free bashing, Mark; but when it comes
to free speech, it’s time the Goverment
stepped in.”
These Labor gentlemen are never so in-
teresting as when they are expressing their
heartfelt opinions of one another. Mr. Col-
bourne, secretary of the Federal Labor
organisation in N. S. Wales, reviews the
achievements of the Langsters:—
In a few months the unfortunate electors saw, to
their dismay, that the Lang policy was chiefly con-
cerned with increasing the wage tax from Is. to
as high as 55., with re-establishing a tin-hare
monopoly, with giving a monopoly rake-off to
Shadier for supplying the daily bread of the half-
starved unemployed. They saw their idolised leaders
suddenly sool the police on to the South Coast
miners, distribute all-life, all-lines railway tickets
to Lang Plan organisers, and, in the interests of
the very English bondholders they cursed, throw
4000 ’bus workers on to the streets.
Mr. J. J. Lynch, secretary of the Railway
Workers, adds his testimony:—
There is a procession from the Trades Hall into
£lOOO a year'jobs. We have an army being paid
£7OO a year as chairmen of conciliation com-
mittees which do not exist. This is the Lang Plan
with variations.
The “Worker,” in which these pleasantries
appear, makes a small contribution of its
own to the effect that “no blacker crime is
recorded in the history of great betrayals”
than that of “the Beasley bunch,” which,
“with fratricidal fury in its heart, conspired
with the Nationalist party, and in the terms
of that villainous alliance plunged a poisoned
dagger in the back of the Labor Ministry.”
And only the other day they were calling
each other “Comrade”!
[For any pars, which require a signature under the
Electoral Law, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb and Jas.
Edmond, all of 252 George-street, Sydney, hold
themselves responsible.]


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Pine Scrub”: The Digger impromptu
that will linger longest in my recollection
occurred during a night ride in the d 'serf.
Colonels Meredith and Cox w’cre in charge
of their respective regiments, the Ist and
6th Light Horse, w’hich were following
parallel routes some distance apart. In the
darkness the two bodies converged, and a
voice asked “Is that you, Cox?” Came
the reply “Yes. That you, Meredith?”
Without pause follow’ed from the ranks
“Two heads are right.”
* * * *
“Road Hog’’: A regulation passed by the
State of Pennsylvania, which enacts that
all pedestrians on country roads by night
are required to carry a hand lantern or a white
pocket-handkerchief, reminds me of the
experience of one “Lofty” when our bat-
talion w ? as quartered at Lark Hill (Salis-
bury Plain). “Lofty” used to go for long
walks with his girl from a neighboring vil-
lage, and on one of these occasions they fell
in w’ith a party of Diggers who were
jumping a trout stream. Lofty joined
in the competition, and managed the
leap, at the cost of a big rent in the stern
of his military strides, a disaster of which
he was perfectly oblivious. The couple then
resume their stroll. The shades of night had
fallen when an overtaking motor-car pulled
up behind them with a great jarring of
brakes. “By cripes, Digger,” exclaimed the
driver of a staff car, “I’d ’a’ been right over
you and the young lady if it hadn’t been
for that white flag of yours!”
* * * *
“Scrivener”: Some of England’s most skil-
ful and successful forgers became unwilling
immigrants to Westralia in the fifties and
sixties of last century. The best-known of
all, perhaps, w r as Leopold Redpath, whose
name still crops up occasionally in the
chronicles of bygone swindles which peri-
odically furnish English writers with
saleable copy. Redpath was accountant for
a railway company who managed to live like
a Croesus on an ostensible salary of a few
pounds a week. His reputation as a lavish
entertainer led to his undoing at last. One
of the directors was talking to a nobleman on
a railway platform. The employee saluted his
boss respectfully, but what amazed the boss
was to notice his companion waving an ami-
able greeting to the humble accountant. “You
know him?” he asked. “Of course I do,”
returned the titled epicure ; “why, he gives
the best dinners in London.” Redpath had
previously spread a yarn that he had made
some successful speculations on the stock
market, but the director decided that it was
time the company’s books were closely inves-
tigated. The audit revealed a system of
colossal and cleverly executed forgeries ex-
tending- over years ; the accountant had got
away with £60.000 or £70,000. Transporta-
tion for life was the sentence; Redpath is
believed to have died in Westralia in the
’eighties or ’nineties.
* * * *
‘,‘Tuart” : The excuse generally given for
the stupid and ugly habit of chewing gum
is that it “promotes digestion.” Now I
read that “acute indigestion,” associated
with a dicky heart, has settled the hash of
Wrigley, the chewing-gum millionaire. Some-
how it recalls the classic consulting-room
story of the last century. A woebegone
wreck dragged his weary frame into the
presence of the Great Doctor. “There’s no-
thing organically the matter with you,” said
vEsculapius, after the examination; “but
you’re run down, sir. You must look on the
bright side of life. You need, first of all, a
good laugh. Go and get one! Go and see
that clown Grimaldi.” “Alas!” replied the
patient, “I am Grimaldi.”
s}s S|J *
“Mako” : At Wellington the other day an
imposing document was solemnly attached to
one of the masts of the steamer Pakura. It
was a writ issued by the Harbor Board for
£5OOO salvage, the Pakura having been
rescued from disaster by the board’s tug Toia.
As writs, the last indignity of ships, are rare,
a queue of interested persons gathered, and
certain sea lawyers expressed the opinion
that the writ was on the vessel’s foremast
instead of on the mainmast, the mainmast in
the Pakura’s case being the aftermast. The
plaster was then removed to the correct posi-
tion, after which someone took it down and
said that anyhow it was all a mistake —the
matter would be settled by arbitration.
* * # *
“Bodega” : Rule’s, one of London’s oldest
restaurants and oyster bars, has departed
from its immemorial tradition
of maintaining a staff of the
best-looking barmaids in the
world. The patrons of Rule's,
which is in Maiden-lane, be-
hind the Adelplii and Vaude-
ville theatres and running
parallel with the Strand, have
included all classes of society,
from King Ned himself to
Russian Grand Dukes and
successful pugilists. The
famous beauties have almost
invariably made good mar-
riages, and whenever one
left it was difficult to say
whether the newcomer was
not more lovely than her pre-
decessor. The proprietor will
give no reason for his decision
to abolish a convention which,
it is claimed, is 150 years old.
All he will shy is that it has
nothing to do with the hour is
themselves. Perhaps gilded
and inflammable youth has
ceased to frequent the paradise in the
numbers of other days.
“Swaddy”: Less than six months ago I
suggested that the making of vocal records
for posterity by the representative sol-
diers selected by historian Bean from
the A.I.F. should be begun quickly. Since
then four of the 17 have died: Monash,
Elliott, Cass and .Tacka. The others
are Birdwood, Chauvel, ex-Senator Glas-
gow, Brudenell White, Gellibrand. Mur-
ray, McCarthy. McDougall and .Toynt,
V.C.’s; White, M.11.R.; Murray Jones for
the Flying Corps; Admiral Glasgow for the
Navy; Col. Butler for the medical services,
and another to be chosen from Palestine.
Monash’s imperishable story and his rich
voice and masterly diction will be sadly
missed.^
“Exdig”: Recent Inky Way casualties
include “Aussie,” the returned-soldiers'
organ, which is
suspending publica-
tion for 12 months,
or until times im-
prove another
blow’ for free-
lances, w T ho pro-
vided practically
all the copy. “Aus-
sie” in its original
form was started
in France by Phil
Harris, a salvaged
printing plant and
paper being used.
The army “heads”
approved the pro-
ject, anticipating a
semi-official jour-
nal which would
feature the orders
the A.I.F. was
asked to observe,
but Harris pro-
duced a bright and
newsy paper in
the dinkum Digger
spirit, and it be-
came so popular
that his idea was endorsed. On his return to
Australia Harris revived the thing in a
“civvie” form, and it was a good money-
spinner for years.
“Potheen”: The Customs Department is
perturbed at the loss of revenue resulting
from the operations of illicit stills, and a
determined effort is to be made to squelch
them. Thirteen unlicensed distillers of
“white spirit,” designed for conversion
into whisky or rum or anything else
that unscrupulous Bungs will buy and
their customers will consume, have been
convicted in Sydney alone during the
last IS months, so it looks as if the
“moonshining” business has a pretty good
hold. The last culprit, w’ho was caught red-
handed and. making a virtue of necessity,
greeted the boarding-party with the genial
admission “It's a fair cop, boys; come in,”
WHY THEY SLIPPED.
GRANNIE: “When I was young, girls never thought of doing things like they do to-day.”
GRAND-DAUGHTER: “Yes, poor dears! So, of course, they never did them.”
was fined £250 the other day. To one of the
“boys” he acknowledged that he “learned the
business in America, where they make good
stuff.” The land of the star-spangled banner
and the shoe-peg oats has admittedly shown
the world that it is possible to shut down
on the legal manufacture and sale of in-
toxicating liquor. But it has also shown
the world how easy (and profitable) it is to
evade the law, even when it only applies
to illicit distilling.
* * * *
“Evan Dale”: A Gippsland Court has
established a precedent by admitting olfac-
tory evidence. The charge was receiving
blankets, the property pf the Vic. Aborigines
Board, and the weak link in the Crown case
was the question of identification, until an
expert, who claimed close acquaintance with
the habits of Binghi from Gippsland
to the Gulf country, entered the witness-box.
He admitted, that the dark-grey blankets m
question were not .branded, and that thou-
sands of similar blankets were turned out
from Pentridge and other places every year,
but he was emphatic that the exhibits m
court had at some time or other been m the
possession of the abos. His sense of smell,
ho told the Court, couldn’t deceive him,
black brother having an unmistakable per-
fume of Ins own Apparently Ins argument
was convincing, for the Crown won its case.
* * * *
“Spado”: “The word ‘scoundrel,’ ” said
the Sydney S.M.' who heard the Campbell
case, “is an unfortunate term to use in de-
scribing the political actions of any person,
It is an ill-chosen word.” Maybe it is,
being full-sounding and mouth-filling and
seldom employed in a Pickwickian sense —
it appears to be derived from a Saxon word
scunian, meaning “to shun”—but it might
be argued, with some plausibility, that it
isn’t quite as bad as it sounds. Webster
gives only two one-word synonyms, “rascal”
THE UNEMPLOYED.
and “villain,” and is at some pains to show
that both are capable of gradations. Quota-
tations are appended from Spencer (“the
rascal many”) and from Shaksp'eare (“she
called me rascal fiddler”), which suggest that
the term once conveyed no moral turpitude,
And as for “villain,” one is informed, though
the information is hardly needed, that “the
word is often used playfully, without evil
implication.” The average Parliamentary
Speaker would doubtless refuse to recognise
the possibility of any of these words being
used playfully, but much milder terms of
opprobrium—-“uncouth,” for instance —have
been placed on the index by these authori-
ties. On the other hand, a member who
called another “a bad hat” in the halls of
legislature might conceivably get through
with it.
“Tithebarn Street”: Someone recently
sent me the bill-of-fare of the jnauguTal
dinner of the English Folk Cookery Asso-
ciation at Simpson’s in London. The fourth
course is set down as “Hedgehog,” and my
thoughts naturally turned to George Borrow’
and the Romany Rye, of whom he writes in
“Lavengro” and other books. But the Folk
Cookery hedgehog turned out to be merely a
sort of “tipsy-cake,” soaked in the choicest
old Madeira, arid with peeled almonds to
represent the prickles. Gypsies eat hedgehogs,
though I never heard of anyone else tackling
them, save in an experimental mood. Years
ago London “Punch” had a picture of two
Cockneys who had slain one of the harm-
less little animals and were engaged m
baking it, wrapped up in clay, by the tradi-
tional gypsy method. “It ought to be good,
Bill,” pronounces one, licking his lips—
“think o’ the cracklin’!”
**. * *
“Oran”: The rumor that drifts persis-
tently in from the Gulf country, despite
official scepticism, that a woman survivor of
tlie Douglas Mawson wreck is held captive
amo ng the blacks is about to be investi-
gated by a party of Sydney adventurers,
The 20-ton ketch Daydream, now peacefully
monr od in Rushcutter Bay. is to start on
tlie voyage early next month, captained by
L ee Murray wlio was with the R.A.F. dur-
ing. the war and was o ne of the aerial
searc hers for the Southern Cloud. With
j 3 im will go his wife also the pertinacious
Franc ; s Dirties who has collected informa-
tion that convinces him there is something
in the gtrange taF from Arnhem Land. The
t will exp i ol . e the Barrier Reef on its
” ay north> and expects to be absent at
least a year.
* * * *
“Lepus”: Many people account, the tin
hare, recently revivified in Sydney by Lang
and co. by being licensed for betting pur-
poses, as a craze that will soon die out and
is never likely to seriously threaten horse-
racing as an attraction. They talked much
the same way in England a few years ago;
Joynson Hicks (“Jix”), now Lord Brentford,
predicted in 1928, when he was Home Secre-
tary, that “next year the .sport will be
almost at an end.” Thc prophecy has aetu-
ally proved one of the worst on record, for
nowadays there are five or six meetings in
London and suburbs every Saturday, with
totes and bookmakers in full blast, and
almost all the big cities have their grey-
hound racing tracks. The champion “long
dog” in the U.K.—a sort of canine Phar
Lap—has scooped in nearly £lO,OOO in
stakes, and the latest edition of “Whitaker’s”
(1032) significantly mentions that “total
visitors to dog-racing far exceed numbers
for horse-racing." There’s a warning in it
for Australians.
BUT STILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Theodore said that he was not aggrieved
or soured by defeat, but stiil he did trust that
the A.W.IT. and .he Australian Labor party would
make it their first objective to prevent wild men
like Lang, Garden and Graves from winning the
next Federal election.’’
Believe me, friends, I am not sour or bitter;
I always keep my temper, lose or win.
I never was a squealer or a quitter
To rail and rave at those who’ve done
me in.
Not much. I hold it infinitely fitter
A man should take his gruel with a grin.
Still, those who’ve cooked my goose may
live to rue it—
And will, assuredly, if I can do it.
Who aims at victories must hazard losses:
No use to chew the rag if fate’s unkind.
I’ve had my triumphs and I’ve taken tosses
With undisturbed serenity of mind.
The hardest of a politician’s crosses
Nathloss are those infernal kicks behind
From those who erst were comrades tried
and trusted,
And now exult with glee to see him busted.
I am no prey to gnawing acrimony,
I harbor no vindictive feeling sore.
My late misfortune hasn’t turned my honey
To gall. I’m not the sort to ramp or roar.
In short, my disposition is as sunny,
My smile as cheerful, as it was before.
Still, I’ve one score to settle, and you bet it
Will be a long, long time ere I forget it.
DOGS I HAVE KNOWN—THE ARTIST.
Adversity some hearts may sear and harden
When undeserved. Not mine to take it ill.
My bitterest detractors I can pardon
And find excuses for their dupes. But
still
If I can spoke the wheels of Graves and
Garden
And smash the applecart of Lang. I unit.
Wild men I designate them, nothing milder.
And, when I’ve finished with them, they’ll
be wilder.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Uramao”: One story about the Napier
earthquake of a year ago looks like surviv-
ing all the rest. A sozzled individual had
been making himself so obnoxious at one of
the large hotels that the services of the
chucker-out were requisitioned. That official
dexterously seized his man by the slack of
his pants and the collar of his coat and
booted him skilfully into the street. Just
then the ’quake heaved, the pub collapsed,
and the inebriate turned to survey the sceue
of destruction. “Hell,” he hiccoughed appre-
hensively. “I’ve done it now. This’ll mean
six monsh.”
* * * *
“Taltingan”: What an amazing youngster
the Australian youngster is, especially if he
belongs to the back country and has had a
few years with the Scouts! Out from
Broken Hill is Mootwingee, very rough coun-
try with more rock carvings and other abo.
memorials than you can find in most parts
of the West Darling. A party of Marist
Brothers Scouts from Broken Hill pitched
camp there early in the holidays, and one
14-year-old youngster, Allan Brennan, clam-
bering up a cliff with a rabbit, fell 51ft.,
landing in a waterhole. Another Scout
youngster, Laurie Lewis, was at the foot
of the cliff at the time: he got to work to
pull Brennan out, and. with help, managed
it. Then they put the Scout rule over Bren-
nan and found he had a broken wrist and
a broken thigh. Only twigs were available:
with these they at once put the wrist in
splints. The thigh beat them. But the
boy was raised up the cliff, carried on a
promptly-improvised stretcher half a mile
to the camp, and there a fruit-case was
broken up and the thigh was put into splints,
too, the bandaging being done with torn
shirts and ties. Next a party went off to
get a car to take the patient the 50 or 60
miles into hospital; and he was landed in
fine condition—a remarkable feat consider-
ing the class of country they were in and
that tlie boys had to do the whole business
entirely on their own.
THE FIRST LESSON.
GABY: “My hubby knows nothing about
women’s clothes.”
PATSY: “Mine does. He knows what they
cost.”
“Mells”: One date is perhaps as good as
another for a country to keep its birthday on,
but there will always be people to question
tbe appropriateness of the selection. Sena-
tor Guthrie (Vic.), speaking at the Founda-
tion (or Anniversary or Australia) Day
celebrations at Ballarat, deplored the ten-
dency to emphasise certain incidents in this
country’s history that would be better for-
gotten. and declared that “he would prefer
to see the landing of Captain Cook celebrated
as Foundation Day instead of the day con-
victs were landed in N. S. Wales.” In that
case April 29 would be the national day. But
it doesn i seem absolutely certain that con-
victs were first landed in the Ma State on
January 26. 1788. The First Fleet anchored
in Botany Bay on January 19, and a lot of
things happened between that date and the
day when Phillip made an indelible time-
mark for posterity by formally taking posses-
sion of Port Jackson for his gracious
Majesty King George 111.
* * =!= *
“Retired Ruffian”: It has often occurred
to me that the horrors of civilisation exceed
those of the savage past. I was again
impressed with the idea on reading that the
Samarai Revellers recently produced a musi-
cal comedy in their portion of Papua. The
journal reporting the fact says that it was
received with approval by the audience. It
would have to be. Samarai is an island
of some 50 acres in extent, and is three
miles from the mainland, with a swift-
running and shark-infested strait be-
tween, so that escape was impossible. An-
other aspect of the affair is that the Euro-
pean population is under the century : hence
a fair proportion was in the cast. My old friend
Nicholas the Greek once told me that on his
first visit to Samarai, before it became a Gov-
ernment settlement, the natives attempted
to capture his lugger and all but killed him
before he beat them off. I have it in my
mind that even the hardy Nicholas would
blench at a Samarai of to-day which goes
m for musical comedy.
“tv *u, 1 .■
llouble Entry ; Bob Barnett had been
wasting the company’s time by hopping out
SAYING A MOUTHFUL.
MISS SIGHTSEER : “ I’ve heard it said you Americans don’t like the English.”
MR. RUBBERNECK: “Wal, I’ll go so fur as to ad-mit that some do prefer Scahtch!"
too often for refreshment at the corner pub.
On the Friday he did not turn up for work;
he reappeared next morning looking seedy,
and several heads were shaken over his pro-
bable fate when he was promptly carpeted.
The boss crisply demanded an explanation
about Friday. The wife was sick. Why had
lie not telephoned to .say so 7 The instrument
was not dialling properly. How many drinks
bad Robert taken that morning? “Me?
None, sir,” replied Bob with 18-carat Recha-
bite dignity. The master of his destiny
frowned. “Barnett,” he said coldly, “there
is a strong smell of peppermint in tlie room.”
Bob felt his job slipping, but hope revived
when the head accountant, who was present
at the interview, cut in apologetically : “I’m
eating a peppermint.” That saved the cul-
prit. Bob has been wondering ever since if
the head accountant really was doing as he
said ; he himself had two in his mouth during
the third degree.
“Shortcut”: A railwayman was
killed in Westralia the other day
by taking a short cut through a
stationary van and stepping out in
front of a passing engine. It’s a
dangerous practice, not confined to
railways.' Any morning, almost,
you may see ferry passengers at
Circular Quay, Sydney—the same
sort with whom it is apparently
a point of honor to leap from the
boats before they are tied up : —
tearing through stationary trams
on the near line in their frantic
hurry to Save the few seconds that
it might take to go round. One of
these speedsters shot through a
compartment wherein I was seated.
The conductor, who happened to
be handy, shrugged his shoulders.
“You can’t stop it,” he said.
“Some of ’em almost seem to think
it’s a right-of-way that ought to
be kept clear for them. One pushed
me out of his way, on my own
tram, too, only yesterday.” It
seems about time that somebody
was prosecuted for trespass in
these circumstances, if only to discourage
others.
“S.M.”: Sir Henry McCardie, known as
the Bachelor Judge, begins to be mentioned
along with Dean Inge and Bernard Shaw as
a sort of reliable crank. He specialises in
the rights of woman regarded as an oppressed
female. In a recent case where a doctor
scuttled with a grocer’s wife he laid down
these axioms:—
A man doesn’t become the owner of a woman by
being married to her.
A woman has a right to choose her own occupa-
tion.
Also t.o select her own politics.
Likewise to choose her own religion.
To decide whether, or not she will have children
and when she will have them.
To leave her husband should she feel like it.
And the chief reasons which make his Honor
seem a faddist are these:—
Even if a man doesn’t own his wife there are
objections to too many other men owning her.
A woman is entitled to choose her own occupation
provided that she doesn’t change too often, and
require too much apparatus, and her occupations
are not dangerous, or smellful, or liable to cause
her husband’s arrest.
She has every right to her own politics and
religion provided they don’t blow people up, or
involve human sacrifices, or take her away on pil-
grimages with strange men to the neglect of her
housework.
She has every right to refuse to have children
provided she didn’t snare or harpoon her husband
by promising to have them and then turn dog on
the solemn obligation. At the same time a promise
to have more than ten children shouldn’t be bind-
ing.
If a wife is entitled to leave her husband it
raises the question of the husband being entitled to
leave the wife, and both parties being entitled to
go off promiscuously and leave the children.
It is possible that when a bachelor Judge
grows old in single cussedness he is liable
to become erratic and to bite people.
“Annean”: It almost looks as if there
were soine sort of hoodoo on the Mur-
chison (W.A.) seat, the member for which
has been unfolding his tale of woe
in a maintenance action (B. 27/l/’32).
The constituency has had four mem-
bers since the Forrest Government created
it: in IS ? 7 - The -first, Harry Kenny,
was a gingery-whiskered Geraldtoman of
Irish extraction, who died suddenly before
he had been two years in Parliament. A
by-election gave the seat to Moorhead, a
brilliantly distinguished Irishman for whom
big things were predicted. Moorhead
accepted a Judgeship a couple of years
later, but he was already a dying man. Jack
Holman, the Cue barber, dropped into Moor-
head’s place, becoming first Labor member
for the Murchison. Inside of three years
he was one of the State’s first batch of
Labor Ministers, but Daglisli dropped him,
and his first sniff of office was his last.
Holman held the seat for years, but he went
down in a Labor-selection ballot to the un-
tried and almost unknown Marshall. And
now Marshall is having his troubles, a peck
of them.
* * *
“Sidweelin”: “Diego Valdez” has got his
ships mixed (P>. 20/l/’32). Van Oteren-
dorp. not Vanderdecken, was master of the
Oceanic liner Alameda when she ran be-
tween Sydney and San Francisco ; Vander-
decken never got nearer to Australia than
the Cape of Good Hope, which, according
to latest (fo’c’s’le) advices, he is still trying
to double in the phantom ship Flying Dutch-
man. And Van Oterendorp didn’t wear Dun-
dreary whiskers. During the years that I
knew him, in the ’nineties, he cultivated a.
square-cut white beard, which gave him a
remarkable resemblance to Sydney’s old
friend Dan O’Connor.
* : ! : * *
“Mako” : The dock towed from England to
M.L. for the Wellington Harbor Board had
the only excitement of its record tow when it
was being moored at its destination. A
typical Wellington blow came up, snapped
the mooring wires, and threatened to de-
molish the quarter-million job before it had
been officially delivered. The cumbersome
charge had been towed half across the world
without the parting of a single rope.
THE SILVER LINING.
So that’s it, is it? Now you’ve gone through all my money, you’re ready to leave me.”
But I’ll be ready to come back as soon as ever you’ve made some more.”
‘ Honi Pikau”: Thirty years ago, when
the M.L. civil service was run more economi-
'cally than it is nowadays the s m at most
country stations had, in addition to railway
K •’ . V ,
death's on,! mSS?* er ’ registrar of births,
nf*lieonoao wV a ° e *’„® ntl I ® suer Ml sorts
lk t ‘ ; When filling the part at Wai-
?ho fivof ,„ a ’ / raa< J e a ““take after
manage I put through. Henare
V aipiro was the ’groom, but it was not
till many years after that he told me about
it. Then he called, and, after introducing
himself and recalling our first meeting, he
grinned amicably. “Py korry, choa,” he
said, you gife me te pheasant ricense in-
stead of te marriage ricense. Orrite though:
te missus hafe 17 piccaninny, so I think maybe
te pheasant ricense te pest !”
“Custos”: Dartmoor prison,
where the most sensational
mutiny of convicts in the his-
tory of English penal institu-
tions was staged and quelled
(with outside assistance) last
week, dates from the early
years of last century. It was
built in 1809 as a cage for
foreign prisoners-of-war, mostly
French, at a time when Eng-
land had so many of these cap-
tives on her hands that their
safe custody presented a pro-
blem ; situated on a bleak and
desolate moor it answered its
purpose so well that it was con-
verted to domestic needs in
1850 and largely reserved for
“lifers” and long-sentence men.
It used to be said that no pri-
soner ever got clear away from
Dartmoor—that is, after it was
diverted from its original pur-
pose ; prisoners-of-war, who
weren't looked after so vigi-
lantly, undoubtedly escaped
from there and found more sym-
pathy outside than criminals —
it will be remembered that the
old prison gave Conan Doyle
material for one of the most
delightful exploits of his Briga-
dier Gerard. And probably a
few convicts broke out and
dodged recapture in later days,
or else the novelists have lied,
but they were singularly few.
The gaol mutinies in America are more than
likely to have prompted the recent outbreak.
* * * *
“Esters”: The latest incursion of the
Russian Soviet is into the wine busi-
ness. The Bolshies have landed a trial
shipment of 1000 cases of “champagne” in
London, the retail cost being 4s. 6d. a bottle.
The wine is described as highly liqueured and
very sweet, much on the lines of the stuff
that the French vineyards used to ship speci-
ally for the consumption of Russian aris-
tocrats. Few folk are accustomed to regard
Russia as a wine-growing country, but the
Crimea has long been a considerable pro-
ducer, and some of the wines have a good
reputation. A.s a matter of fact there are
very few countries that have not made wine:
even in England the monks kept vineyards
in the Middle Ages. But the industry died
with them, and wm know nothing about the
quality of their product.
“Rouge Dragon” : There is no doubt the
birds on the coins of Edward the Confessor
are not starlings but martlets (B. 27/1/ ’32 *
That name, however, did not apply to
“swallows or swifts,” but to swifts only.
Because of the swifts’ apparently unceasing
flight, they were considered footless by early
naturalists. Thus in heraldry the martlet
is always represented with truncated legs.
The martlet is also important in heraldry,
not only as a bearing, but as one of the
Marks of Cadence, which distinguish the
standing of individuals or families entitled to
assume the same coat armor.
“Mark VIII.”: The Germans have fol-
lowed up their pocket battleship by evolv-
ing a new type of bullet capable of
penetrating hardened armor-plate half an
inch thick. The inventor claims that it can be
used, not only in rifles, but in field and naval
guns. Instead of the velocity of the bullet
being increased by a few hundred feet per
second, the speed has been jumped to 58,000
feet per second, or more than double the great-
est velocity hitherto attained. No details of the
special charge used to get that velocity are
given, nor is there anv mention of what has
been done to avoid barrel erosion, or to pre-
vent the extirpation of the individual firing
the thing. The bullet is .280 calibre with a
soft lead core encased by a thin soft iron
jacket. When penetrating armor-plate the
material of the bullet becomes vaporised,
blasting out the composition of whatever it
hits. A cheerful invention it would appear,
and one likely to save the stretcher-bearers a
lot of trouble in the next war.
UNREPENTANT SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A trifle grim life’s game has grown
These latter days. No barest bone
A dog may dare to call his own.
Alas for Jack and Jill!
They’re tumbling yet! But all the same
The bannered sky’s immortal flame
A beacon seems, to say the game
Is worth the playing still.
The dice of Fate are cogged indeed
With hate and pain, with fear and greed;
The vein bled white has yet to bleed
Till Chronos save or slay!
But here at least no grief may be
Where sings the summer-haunted sea—
And I am glad most shamelessly
To be alive to-day!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
Bulletin Buildings j
252 George Street.
iS Y D N
<©>
:c.A
" '•&>
The Macleod Gallery will he opened
during Bridge Celebration Week, and
will be one of its big attractions.
The Gallery, which is on the sixth floor of the new Bulletin Buildings, is 150 feet long, with magnificent natural lighting, and
largest private gallery in Australia.
Artists and collectors who have works for sale are invited to communicate with the Director, Mr. G. V. F. Mann, for 25
Director of the National Art Gallery of N. S. Wales.
Conditions and other particulars jrom the Director, Macleod Gallery, Box 252188, G 8.0., Sydney.
is the
years
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Governor-General Isaacs, speaking at the
AN A. annual dinner in Melbourne last
week, extended special greetings to I oacock
and John Quick, his two surviving fellow-
delegates from Victoria to the Federal Con-
vention of 1897-98. The other four sur-
vivors of the 50 Conventionists are Josuih
Svmon (S.A.), Joe Carruthers (N.S W.).
Elliott Lewis (Tas.) and Walter James
(W.A.). All are knights.
Vic. like the Speck, has seven ex-Pre-
miers living: Speaker Peacock, Acting-
Governor Irvine, William Watt, John
Bowser, Senator Lawson, George Prendei-
gast, M.L.A., John Allan. M.L.iV, and V il-
liam McPherson. Peacock had three terms,
Lawson three and Watt two.
Lyndhurst F. Giblin, acting Federal Gov-
ernment Statistician, has probably tackled
more callings in his picturesque lifetime than
any other man who has come to rest among
figures, tables and averages. Giblin, who
was born 60 years ago son of a Speck
Premier, schedules himself through Who»
Who” as having been successively minor,
boatman, teamster, sailor, cook, lumbermau,
schoolmaster, fruitgrower, labor agitator,
soldier and member of Parliament —a com-
prehensive list of occupations for one Who
was ultimately to rise to professorial ranu.
Giblin won a D.S.O. in the war.
Archbishop Cattaneo, who left Sydney for
Genoa last week, en route to Rome, has been
Apostolic Delegate to Australasia since 191*.
Before that he was Archbishop of Palmyra,
and before that Rector of the Urban College
of Propaganda, Rome. Dr. Cattaneo who
was born at Novi Ligure, Italy, will be bb
next September.
H'enry Fletcher, who died last week in
Sydney at 75, was better known to a past
generation ; his “Dads Wayback was. popu-
lar 30 years ago and reached a dramatisation
that had a successful run and some revivals.
Fletcher first came to Australia as a boy,
returning to England when he came of age;
after a few years spent in France and. else-
where he came back for good and began
writing stories. His “North Shore Mystery,
published nearly 50 years ago, first brought
him before the public.
Pictures put F. W. Thring on the map in
Australia, and he is returning the compli-
ment by putting the Australian film on its
feet —for world distribution. His faith in its
future is expressed in his determination to
make the Efftee koala as well known to pic-
ture “fans” as is the Metro-Goldwyn lion or
any other of the numerous Shadowland fauna.
Thring was born in South Aus.; his first
effort in the entertaining line was as a
magician at Broken Hill, where he also- fol-
lowed the less exciting callings of carpenter
and shoemaker. In Melbourne he came into
the limelight as an operator at the Theatre
F. W. THRING, of the Australian Films.
Royal; then he built the Paramount Theatre
in Bourke-street, since which he has lived
and thought and dreamed films, with local
production as his big aim in life. His large,
comfortable appearance is evidence of an
equable temper, and in the throes of direction
and production he invariably remains as calm
and unruffled as the broad expanse of shirt
front he dons on festive occasions.
Osborne Arkell Smith, K.C.1.E., manag-
ing governor of the Imperial Bank of India,
and reputed to be the highest-salaried
British banker in the world, is a
Sydney native, in his middle fifties ana
an old Sydney Grammar School boy. When
the Commonwealth Bank was Started he
was made manager of the Canberra branch.
Executive positions at Brisbane and Alel-
bourne followed, after which he became
acting-manager of the London office. He
went over to the Imperial Bank at Bombay
six years ago.
Still a practising solicitor at Muswell-
brook, R. G. D. Fitzgerald has been keeping
his 86th birthday. From ISBS to 1900 he
represented the Upper Hunter in the
Assembly ; then he was appointed M.L.C.
A. N. LAWRENCE,
now appointed Regional
Director of General
Motors.
A. N. Lawrence,
who came from
S’Africa to
manage General
Motors two years
ago, arrived in
Melbourne just in
time to help the
ship weather
the economic cy-
clone. He has
just returned from
a world tour to
the bigger job of
Regional Director
for Australia and
Maori 1 a n d of
General Motors-
Holden. An
affable boss, he
has had experi-
ence in Canada
and England as
well as Africa. If
an employee earns
his confidence
Lawrence backs
him to the limit.
He had a taste of
what a depression
is like when he
steered his firm’s
S’African branch
through an earl-
ier crisis; that
was one reason
why he was
brought here. He
is a keen sports-
man.
Jack Lee, Harold Clapp’s senior district
superintendent, is retiring at 65. He has
had control at Fiinders-street of the big
metropolitan and Gippsland districts since
their amalgamation in 1929, and his railway
service in Victoria goes back to 1886. He
was s.m. at Fiinders-street in 1920, when the
big changeover from steam to electric trac-
tion occurred.
Paddy Glynn, sometime Federal Attorney-
General, surprised South Aus. by leaving a
fortune of £30,000.
Dr. Marion Phillips, the first Australian-
born woman to win her way into the House
of Commons, is dead in England. She
topped the poll for Sunderland, which re-
turns two members, in 1929, but lost her
seat at last year’s general elections. She
was born in Melbourne, and after graduat-
ing at Melbourne Uni. went to London
about 30 years ago and became a D.Sc.
Economics was her strong suit, and it Soon
took her into politics; she was editor of the
“Labor Woman” and author of numerous
publications.
John Hutchinson Monteath, dead in Mel-
bourne at 72, was the head of one of Aus-
tralia’s leading ironfounding firms, Born
in Falkirk, he came with his parents as a
youngster to Victoria, and in the course of
years succeeded his father in the industry
the latter had founded. A fine type of the
Scottish Victorians to whom Australia
owes so much, he was as keen a sportsman
as he was a worker. In his earlier days,
the Australian game of football found him
an enthusiastic and liberal supporter; later
he turned to the turf, and as a member of
the V.R.C. raced some good horses, notably
Lonicera and Glaive.
J. W. Davidson, chairman of Queens-
land’s new Transport Board, is a Scot who
came to Queensland 40 years ago, joined the
railway service, and rose to be Commissioner
thereof in 1918. J. R. Kemp is a Vic-
torian who has been Commissioner for Main
Roads in Queensland for the past 11 years.
E. E. Forth, the commercial representative
on the board, has been chairman of directors
and Queensland manager of J. C. Hutton
and Co. A. S. Douglas brings 40 years ot
banking experience to the job; he joined 1
the Commercial Bank of Tasmania as a lad,
transferring later to the Commonwealth
Bank, from which he retired under the age
limit W. J. Low, secretary to the board as
well as a Commissioner, entered the Queens-
land Railway Department as a boy. He is
a specialist in train-control methods.
L. C. Ball, just appointed Chief Govern-
ment Geologist of Queensland, is one of
Australia’s outstanding experts. Graduat-
ing from Sydney University, he gained in-
valuable experience in the Blue Mountains
shale country and at Broken Hill before
lie went to Queensland as Assistant Govern-
ment Geologist on the nomination of Edge-
worth David. Queensland geology is an open
book to Ball, while he has found time to make
geological investigations in England, Wales
and Italy. Economic geology as applied to
deposits of the valuable metals and oil is his
specialty. The development of the Clon-
curry and Mount Mulligan fields followed
on his report of the possibilities in those
areas.
The reputedly safe beach at Middleton
'(’S'.A.),' just outside the Murray mouth, has
seen the death, of a good man. Two whole
families got into the undertow; after much
confused bravery, all were brought ashore,
but the Rev. Harry Joyce's heart had; stopped.
He came from England to Vic. in 1895, was
for several years in Queensland and at Port
Adelaide, and in all three States the Congre-
gational body elected him its chairman.
The producers’ representative on the newly
constituted N.S.W. Milk Board is W. J. H.
Graham, a well-known cattle-breeder from
Woodville, in the Maitland district, who sat
for the northern dairymen on the old board;
he and his brother have long been success-
ful exhibitors of Ayrshires at the Sydney
and other shows. Sitting with him as
spokesman for milk-drinkers is J. M. Martin,
an organiser of the Electrical Trades Union
and one of the 25 Langites recently
appointed to the Leg. Council. Martin is a
brother of “Plugger” Martin, A.L.P. organis-
ing secretary and another recent M.L.C. He
stood against Marr in the 1930 Parkes by-
election and was soundly beaten.
When the late General Pau visited Aus-
tralia in 1918 as representative of the
French Government, the fine old warrior
left behind him an annual scholarship to be
awarded •to a member of each Australian
University in turn. The recipient has to
be the son of a deceased A.I.F. soldier, and,
in the opinion of the Professorial Board,
the most brilliant student completing his
second-year course in any faculty. This
year it Was Queensland’s turn, and the
scholarship has been awarded to Roland
James Trickett, son of the late Lieutenant
J. Trickett, of the 4th Div. Art., A.I.F.
Dr. Alexander Reid, of Opotiki (M.L.),
who has passed out on his 99th birth-
day, was one of the best-known figures
in the Bay of Plenty. He practised
in Glasgow before migrating to Auck-
land in 1876. At Opotiki he and his little
black bag made many a long and dangerous
journey over atrocious roads and unbridged
rivers. Reid was a world-traveller and a
practical farmer, both when in practice and
after his retirement therefrom.
John Longstaff, winner of the Archibald
Prize this year, carries it off with a portrait
in oils of John Sulman, the president of the
National Gallery trustees. Longstaff’s suc-
cess would peculiarly gratify J. F. Archi-
bald, the founder of the prize; for Long-
staff was one of his early proteges, and he
and William Macleod bought the artist’s
“Breaking the News,” which won him the
JOHN LONGSTAFF.
Melbourne National Gallery scholarship
that took him to Europe and study. He is
a Victorian by birth —he came from the
little mining town of Clunes. Incidentally,
“Breaking the News” will be among the
pictures on view at the Australian Art
Exhibition in the Macleod Gallery, to be
opened in Bridge Week.
J. T. Jennings, who Wrested South Syd-
ney from “old Ted” Riley, who had held it
over 20 years, is a breezy gentleman in his
middle fifties. Born in Melbourne he went
as a youth to the S’African War. At one
period he served under Colonel Thomas,
one of the men who defended Harry Morant
(“The Breaker,” of The Bulletin) at the
latter’s court-martial. Returning to Aus-
JENNINGS, S. Sydney’s new M.H.R.
tralia lie presently managed the dental
supply side of the Australian Drug Go., and
later started in business on his own account.
He has been an alderman of Randwick for
12 years and was Mayor twice. The shark-
proof enclosure at Coogee was built mainly
owing to his efforts. He may be surprised
to find that there is not one at Canberra.
The first and only grant by Adelaide of
the D.Litt. degree goes to the meteoric
Archie Grenfell Price. Ten years ago he
was known only as a young schoolmaster,
with good degrees at both Adelaide and
Oxford. Since then he has made him-
self an authority on Australian history, and
especially the influence of geography upon
it. He is now head of St. Mark’s College.
Last year Price surprised everyone by
coming out as organiser and public speaker,
taking the lead in the Emergency Committee
movement which was arrestingly successful
at the Commonwealth elections. And he is
not 40 yet.
Four of Westralia’s Senators held office of
some kind in their own State. President
Kingsmill was George Leake’s lieutenant in
the first post-Federation Ministry, and he
would have become Premier when his leader
died but for Walter James’s refusal to come
in except in the first place. Colebatch wais
leader of the Leg. Council for years, held
several Ministerial portfolios, and was
Premier for a few weeks. Patrick Lynch
had a fleeting experience of office in the
State’s first Labor Ministry. And Johnston
was once Speaker •of his native land’s
Assembly for an even briefer period—two
crovvded days and two hectic nights.
Henry Spahlinger, whose formula for the
vaccine treatment of tuberculosis was made
available to the medical world last week after
more than 10 years of experimenting and
secrecy, is in his 50th year. He was born
at Geneva in August, 1882, and educated at
Geneva University, where he studied law as
well as medicine and science. He married
Countess Cliarlote Hornyold, daughter of
an Austrian duke who lived in Worcester-
shire, England, and the dozen or more of
wealthy philanthropists of both sexes whose
financial assistance has enabled him to release
his formula, on which he claims to have
spent £lOO,OOO, seem to be all English except
the Aga Khan, and he is a British subject.
Beverley Nichols, whose latest book, “Even-
song,” is being assailed as containing unkind
comments on Melba under the thinly-disguised
name of “Irela,” has annoyed no end of
people in his brief 31 years of existence and
12 of authorship. Beverley is an English
public school and Oxford product—at
Oxford he was president of the Union and
editor of “Isis” —and he has been scatter-
ing stinging comments around ever since,
his “Star-Spangled Manner,” written after
a visit to America, having been almost as
much resented across the Atlantic as parts
of Dickens’s “Martin Chuzzlewit.” With
something of Bernard Shaw in his make-
up. he has also a considerable dash of the
late T. H. W. Crosland. Nichols met
Melba in London in 1923, and came to
Australia with her as private secretary a
year later, though his stay was only a
brief one. If he has caricatured the great
singer under a pseudonym—which, inci-
dentally, he denies —he has also written
some glowing tributes to her in previous
works.
[For any pars, which require a signature under the
Electoral Law, S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb and Jas.
Edmond, all of 252 George-street, Sydney, hold
themselves responsible.]


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.O. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHVRBT.
HEAD OFFICE; Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts ot
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
EXPLOSIVES
AIX KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods by rail or steamer at
usual rates of freight.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
*O-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne)
Works Written
Divi- Charged Off
dends. to He- Stocks, Re-
Profits. (13 p.c.) venue, etc. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec., ’22.. 139,520 65,000 28,800 Nil 704,076
Refund of income-tax .. £23,545 727,621
June, ’23.. 58,679 65,000 29,070 8264 683,966
Dec., ’23.. 103,000 65,000 13,789 4262 \
Cost of Govt, inquiry, £7662 (
June, ’24.. 125,385 65,000 46,871 5,533 704,234
Premiums on shares . . £43,528 747,762
15 p.c.
Dec., ’24. . 128,677 82,197 41,743 4,378 748,121
June, ’25.. 105,182 82,500 18,628 5,270 746,905
Dec., ’25.. 141,568 82,500 50,603 4.194 751,176
June, ’26.. 113,457 82,500 39,094 3,880 739,159
Dec., ’26.. 134,805 82,500 33,500 11,364 746,600
Premiums on shares, £68,040 . . 814,649
June, ’27.. 105,522 88,125 29,782 Nil 802,254
Premiums on shares, £123,423 .. 925,677
Dec., ’27.. 105,843 97,500 28,374 4,586 901,060
June, ’28.. 124,236 97,500 25,000* Nil 902,796
Dec., ’28.. 121,457 97,500 25,562* Nil 901,191
13 p.c.
June, ’29.. 89,356 84,500 Nil Nil 906,047
Dec., ’29... 100,772 84,500 36,184* 3,748 882,387
Profit on sale of land, £13,586 .. 895,973
June, ’30.. 94,328 84,500 22,038* Nil 883,763
Dec., ’30.. 135,380 84,500 50,000* Nil 884,643
June, ’31.. 126,757 84,500 14,702* Nil 912,198
Dec., ’31.. 107,254 84,500 Nil 934,952
*old plant written off.
During the stoppage on the northern
(N.S.W.) coalfields the price to the Mel-
bourne gas consumer was put up to 7s. 6d.
per 1000 c.f.; that was because of the
added cost of importing coal, some of which
was brought from as far off as England.
In September, 1930, prices were revised, the
new rates ranging from ss. lid. to 7s. 3d.
per thousand according to consumption. But
this did not stimulate demand; partly be-
cause of the times and also because of com-
petition from the State Electricity Commis-
sion, there has been a steady falling-off in
output.
There was a shrinkage of 5.7 p.c. in con-
sumption (3802 million cubic feet) during
the term to December last; the result of
that and the reduced rates show up in this
table:—
, Year ended Dec. 31
Per Per
1000 c.f. 1000 c.f.
1030. s. d. 1931. s. d.
Sales:—
Gas ..£1,479,295 7 4} £1,273,103 6 81
Residuals . . 223,904 1 11 179,879 111
Total ..£1,703,199 85* £1,452,982 7 8
Manufacturing, etc. —
Exes. . . 1,168,116 5 91 894,843 4 8*
Other charges 305,375 16| 324,461 1 9"
Total outgo. . £1,473,491 7 3J £1,219,304 6 51
The average price charged dropped 7fd., and
revenue from gas sales fell £200,192. Be-
cause of the slackness in road-making
returns from bitumen and other residuals
dropped lfd. per 1000 c.f., or £44,025 alto-
gether. Partly because of lower coal prices
no less than Is. Id. per thousand was sliced off
costs of manufacture; the administration
cost rate was 2fd. 'heavier, but total outgo
(including £265,797 for maintenance) was
£254,187 lighter. Net profit was thus
£4303 better, though there was a falling-
away in earnings during the latter half of
the term. As from February 12 a further
all-round reduction of 2d. per' thousand is to
be made.
The div. was kept at the nominal rate
of 13 p.c., and after striking off £14,702 in
respect of old plant scrapped, £50,309 was
carried to reserves. No .specific provision
is made for depreciation, and whether the
so-called reserves (£819,201 of the amount
in the table is really premium capital) are
all they look depends upon whether outlay
on- repairs and replacements (£3194 less
last year) proves enough to maintain the
plant in a modern and efficient condition.
Balance-sheet figures show little altera-
tion. During the year £24,936 of expenditure
was charged to capital, making the book
value of the undertaking £4,006,962. Capi-
tal is £1,300,000, and debentures amount to
£2,026,200. These items and the share pre-
miums were £138,438 in excess of the value
of the undertaking at December 31. This
surplus, £301,720 of trade creditors, and
p. and 1. balance, etc., were represented
on the other side of the sheet by cash,
£59,709; debtors, £386,254; stocks, stores,
etc., £194,448.
After rising to 15 p.c. in 1924, the div.
dropped to 13 p.c. again four years later.
It is worth only 6.1 p.c. on the average price
(£lO 10s. 3d) of all shares sold during the
last 50 years or so. The market now pays
£lO for the £5 shares; that figure returns
6.5 p.c., and no improvement in the div. is
in sight.
Australian Cement, Ltd.
Towards
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit
£
Goodwill ( £75,000) and prelim, exes. ( £393) 75,393
Less ; Reserves ( £367) .. .. .. 75,026
£ £ £
1925.. 156,581 15 p.c. = 112,501 44,080 30,946
Reserves.
1926.. 106,249 10 „ „ 75,001 31,248 302
1927.. 109,404 10 „ „ 75,001 34,403 34,705
1928.. 94.603 10 „ „ 75,001 19,602 54,307
1929.. 134,340 15 „ „ 113,143 21,197 75,504
Premiums on shares, £8272 .. . . 83,776
Undertaking sold to Aus. Portland Cement
Pty.; added reserves, £311,057 .. 394,833
1930.. 41,057 1.34 p.c. =102,628 333,262
Premiums on shares, £6O .. .. 333,322
1931. . 42,906. 8 p.c. - 60,820 3115,408
The North Shore bridge, the Sydney
underground railway and other public works
all helped to absorb a large amount of
Kandos cement until near the end of 1930.
Then these special jobs were practically
finished; the building trades collapsed
throughout the Commonwealth, and expendi-
ture on concrete speedways by the Main
Roads Board and municipal bodies was dras-
tically curtailed. Thus the Ivandos (N.S.W.)
works of Australian Portland .Cement Pty.
(in which this co. owns a million £1 shares)
have worked intermittently for the past 18
months; at Fyansford (Vic.), where the
Pty. operates another plant with equal capa-
city (about 200,000 tons p.a.), turnover was
the lowest since 1920, though competition is
not so' fierce in Vic.
For the term to November 30 last divs.
and agency fees received by Australian
Cement from the Pty. were £3267 lower at
£50,293. Administration exes, and super-
tax ran off with £5116 less at £7387: thus
the net result (£42,906) was £1849 better,
and equal to 5.6 p.c. on capital, compared
with 5.4, 18.2, 12.6 and 14.5 p.c. back to
1927. Whether recent results are any better
than they look depends upon the figures of
the subsidiary, which are not disclosed.
Shareholders were handed 8 p.c., including
24 p.c. from special reserves. In the pre-
vious term 44 p.c. was scattered out of this
layby: thus accumulations have been raided
for £79,425 since 1929.
When the co. sold its undertaking to the
Australian Portland Pty. in December, 1929,
it showed a capital profit of £311.057 on
the deal. Then the National Portland
Cement Co.’s works at Maria Island (Tas.)
were bought for 10,570 ords.; apparently
this acquisition was also handed over to the
new operating co., and Australian Cement
added £5332 to its share premium reserve
from the transaction.
The amalgamation with Kandos eliminated
a strong competitor; but in N. S. Wales
there is still a scramble for whatever busi-
ness offers. The industry is over-capitalised ;
it was over-capitalised even during the boom.
There is a danger, too, that reduced turn-
overs may lead to a price war. Neverthe-
less. Australian Portland Cement Pty.,
which controls about a third of the plant-
capacity of the Commonwealth, can now
regulate its output to the best advantage.
The change over from a working to a
holding co. shows up in these figures:—
1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. . . £750,005 £760,178 £760,258
Overdraft .. .. 1,859
Sundry creditors . . 158,752 6,163 6,716
Land, buildings, etc. . . 260,422
Plant, equipment, etc... 387,303 —-
Tramways, tunnel, etc. 150,889
Stocks and stores .. 79,344 -
Shares in other cos. . . 24,050 1,023,750 1,026,270
Book debts . . . . 139,208 57,667 26,337
Cash, etc 4,349 63,803 60,186
Last year, allowing for the final divs., the
more or loss liquid surplus (£49,397) slipped
£20,294. That was because of distributions
in excess of current earnings. Provided
fixed assets remain as they are, and that
all current profits are handed out as earned,
the board can distribute only 6.5 p.c. more
out of special reserves and still show a
liquid surplus.
An interesting anomaly shows up in the
market’s valuation of this co.’s scrip and
that of the Kandos holding co. in N. S.
Wales. Each owns a million shares in the
operating co., other assets being liquids.
Thus the backing for the scrip, which
amounts to approximately 28s. per £1 of
capital in each case, is practically of iden-
tical quality. But the market prices Aus-
tralian Cement’s shares at 20s,_£>d. (return-
ing 7.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis) as
against 13s. for Kandos (which shows a
return of 7.7 p.c. on the 5 p.c. distributed
for the last term). Either the market short-
sightedly appraises the scrip purely on an
immediate dividend-return basis, or it reckons
that a co. with its headquarters in Lang’s
State can’t possibly be as safe as one nomi-
nally situated in Vic.
National Insurance Co. of N.Z.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1918.. 56,710 15 p.e. = 30,000 26,710 377,774
1919.. 45,655 15 „ „ 30,000 15,655 393,429
1920.. 63,882 16i „ „ 32,500 31,382 424,811
1921.. 58,957 16* „ „ 32,500 26,457 451,268
1922.. 52,088 16* „ „ 32,500 19,588 470,856
1923.. 64,748 17* „ „ 35,000 29,748 500,504
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 400,604
1924.. 33,221 10.8 p.c.= 32,500 721 401,325
1925.. 62,811 10.8 „ „ 32,500 30,311 431,636
1926. . 49,160 10.8 „ „ 32,500 16,660 448,296
1927.. 51,807 12* „ „ 37,500 14,307 462,603
1928.. 58,326 12* „ „ 37,500 20,826 483,429
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 433,429
1929.. 46,579 10.7 p.c.= 37,500 9,079 442,508
1930.. 51,048 10.7 „ „ 37,500 13,548 456,056
1931.. 34,288 10.7 „ „ 37,500 452,844
For many years the National has been
Maoriland’s most conservative underwriter;
but, as often happens where a large propor-
tion of the risks are reinsured, a higher
cost rate has practically offset the
benefit from the lower loss ratio. The co.’s
fine pile of investments have shown a steady
10 p.c. or more on capital for many years;
the obliging way the return moved up
£5OOO p.a. following the capitalisation of
£50,000 of reserves in 1929 suggests that the
co. puts on view no more of the earnings
from this source than is necessary to keep
the div. steady. But returns for the current
year will be affected by conversion of the
co.’s Commonwealth stocks, the holding in
which is not disclosed.
Last year was a bad one for underwriters
in all parts of the world, and Maoriland had
an earthquake of its own*. Though policy-
writing was curtailed by £22.445, losses
(£153,356) were the heaviest in the co.’s
history, and me ratio mounted 8 p.c. Here
are comparisons going back for nearly 40
years:—
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £82,935 £49,052 £26,560 59.2 p.c. 32.0p.c.
1900.. 102,264 54,991 29,950 53.8 ~ 29.4 „
1905.. 107,648 58,996 36,402 54.8 „ 33.8 „
1910.. 126,602 60,682 44,157 47.8 „ 34.9 „
1920.. 196,248 81,208 81,309 41.4 „ 41.4 „
1922.. 203,254 92,732 86,064 45.6 ~ 42.3 „
1924.. 196,394 103,690 89,875 52.7 „ 45.7 „
1925.. 212,116 86,243 93,954 40.7 „ 44.3 „
1927.. 229,225 115,904 92,995 50.6 „ 40.5 „
1928.. 248,809 135,875 87,066 54.6 „ 35.0 ~
1929.. 252,869 146,114 89,960 57.8 ~ 35.6 „
1930. . 260,445 146,964 91,591 56.4 „ 35.2 „
1931.. 237,997 153,356 86,057 64.4 „ 36.2 „
Exes., including taxation and depreciation,
were reduced by £5534 last year, but the
result was an underwriting loss of £1416,
compared with a profit of £21,890 in the
previous term. Interest earnings were £24
heavier at £35,459; thus, allowing for minor
reserve movements, the net result (£34,288)
was down £16,760. Nevertheless, though
reserves were tapped for £3212 to do it, the
board paid the customary 10.7 p.c.
Policy-holders have a very solid rock to
lean upon in the National, paid capital and
reserves (£802,844) being equal to 337 p.c.
of last year’s net premium income. And it
is all in very handy form, as these figures
show: —
1928. p. C. 1931. p. c.
Premises.. ..£149,380 17.1 £153,444 17.2
Mortgages . . 104,751 12.0 78,979 8.8
Debentures . . 116,013 13.2 104,333 11.7
Govt, securities '. . 357,089 40.9 430,134 48.1
Branch balances . . 47,998 5.5 41,929 4.7
Cash, etc. . . 98,711 11.3 85,084 9.5
Including £25,751 set aside for losses unpaid,
liabilities figures at only £65,227. Thus, with
£650.000 of capital uncalled, the co. should
survive anything short of a collision with
the moon.
The backing in net tangibles amounts to
16s. per £1 share paid to 7s. At 13s. the
return is 5.S p.c. so long as the 10.7 p.c. div.
continues.
Red Funnel Fisheries, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
XT „ . . . To Re- Re-
JNov., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves,
£ £ £
1926.. 9566 7* p.c. = 4304 5262 1814
Deficit.
Added preliminary exes., £4392 .. 2578
1927.. 8605 8 p.c. = 6645 1960 618
Reserves.
1928.. 1963 Nil 1963 1345
1929.. 1953 Nil 1953 3298
Capital reduced by 12s. per share—
6s. returned and 6s. written off—-
and £BOO of reserves disappears . . 2498
Loss.
1930.. 2498 Nil
„ Deficit.
1931.. 473 Nil 473
Fish were harder to catch; when caught,
they sold for less than in the previous term.
Thus, despite “drastic economies,” the best
the board could do was to reduce the year’s
loss on trawling to £473, compared' with
£2498 in the previous term. Much of the
co.’s troubles began with unwfise invest-
ments in vessels; including a couple bought
at the beginning (six years ago) from D. P.
Ilann, its fleet soon grew to eight trawlers.
The amount paid to Hann and the New
State Fish and Ice Co. (whose business the
co also acquired) was £35,000 in scrip; the
other purchases brought the book-value of
fixed assets (including investments) up to
£136,591 at the 1929 balance-day.
Meantime tierce and well-organised com-
petition came from a new quarter, and the
co. soon found itself overcapitalised. Cap-
tain Frederick Waley then took the helm,
and, after overhauling the fleet, sold half
of it. Whatever deficit the books showed on
this deal was more than wiped out by lop-
ping off 6s. per share; the cash released
enabled another 6s. to be returned to share-
holders. Capital dropped from £124.850 to
£49,940, fixed assets were reduced to £30,664.
and the co. started the 1931 term with
£20,036 in Government securities and cash.
Movements in the figures since have been
slight:—
1926. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. £57,389 £124,850 £49,940 £49,940
Liabilities . . 43,885 14,425 3,828 3,607
Fixed assets .. 103,201* 136,591* 30,664 29,877
Govt, securities 6,892
Book debts . . 3,816 4,939 3,068 3,368
Cash . . . . 375 1,043 13,144 19,829
* Includes investments.
Finances are comfortable. The Government
stock was turned into,cash during the year,
at what market price the report does not
say. The liquid surplus (£19,590) improved
£314 during the term.
The co. is now in a sounder position to
take advantage of any improvements in
trade. Since the close of accounts trawled
flathead has improved from 255. to 355. a
box, but catches generally are still on the
light side. The Bs. shares are covered by
slightly less than par value in net tangibles
(book figures) ; about 3s. of that is in sur-
plus liquids. But the market pays only
2s. 3d. for the scrip.
Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd.
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profits. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1924.. 54,092 23,956 8 p.c. = 16,000 14,136 58,792
1925.. 38,411 27,790 5 „ „ 10,000 621 59,413
1926.. 30,534 27,790 Nil 2,744 62,157
1927.. 39,409 27,790 5* p.c. = 11,000 619 62,776
1928.. 36,061 27,790 Nil 8,271 71,047
1929.. 458 27,790 Nil 43,715
1930.. 34,104 27,790 Nil 6,314 50,029
1931.. 38,075 27,790 Nil 10,285 60,314
When Myers, of Melbourne, took control of
James Marshall’s old business in 1928, buy-
ing the 200,000 ords. at 30s. each, it adopted
a bold trading policy similar to that which
had proved so successful in its own State.
The board took a long-distance view of
things ; there was a quick clearance of old
stocks, and the organisation was overhauled
to such good effect that the co. came through
the troubles of the last two years showing
a comfortable margin over pref. div. require-
ments.
The premises were remodelled, and atten-
tion has been given to manufacture of many
of the co.’s requirements locally—Holden’s
old King William-street freehold was bought
to bouse some of the manufactories. Not-
withstanding that. South Aus. has just
passed through one of the worst and longest
droughts in its history, Myer’s turnover has
each year improved, and despite the
policy of smaller profit-margins, gross earn-
ings have reflected the benefit. Last, term,
after taking stock at £7977 higher, gross
profit (£238,830) increased £4367. Exes.
(£200,755, including £15,000 for taxation)
were £396 heavier; thus the net result
(£38,075) was £3871 better, though after
attending to the prefs. the surplus was no
more than 3.4 p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 2.1 p.c. in the previous term. Still,
considering, amongst other things, that
fixed assets represent 63.2 p.c. of the balance-
sheet total, and that reserves figure at only
£60,314, the management should be capable
of .showing good results when better times
eventually come along.
The £200,000-odd added to fixed assets
since 1928 was partly financed by the ord.
shareholders putting up another £100,000;
though the co. went outside for the balance,
the outside debt has since been worked down
considerably, as these figures show: —
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital .. £597,000 £697,000 £697,000 £697,000
Liabilities . . 186,545 307,869 181,965 166,047
Freeholds and
leaseholds.. 351,201 495,578 498,305 491,852
Furniture,
plant, etc... 57,642 112,467 110,581 112,907
Stocks . . 264,897 296,240 233,745 241,722
Book debts .. 214,785 158,490 113,970 102,924
Cash .. .. 7,893 5,551 7,288 10,351
Finances are easy. Last year the more or
less liquid surplus, including stocks, was
£15,912 stronger at £188,950. The drop in
debtors since 1928 is not a reflection of
trade volume; other factors have been in-
volved there. Since the close of accounts
the Bundle-street basement has been doubled
in area in order to cope with business.
Direct public interest is confined to the
7 p.c. profs., 'though the Melbourne parents’
shareholders are also concerned. The A
prefs., backed by £7 11s. sd. in net tangibles,
are priced at par or a trifle higher; at 19s.
the B’s (backed by £2 4s. 2d.) return 7.4 p.c.
(Continued on page 16.)


i■> - * *s ' » • ve"-* •**
' i
iifeiMij
»$&& •-
C: 9- ~; - * SsSHaHE
gragp^a
..v.-v-- -,'.■ ■ OTVi&/SMHH2
: ;
SIK
; «a
'N
<3«
#
Satisfaction
@kanqe io to
10/»6 D .
20/l r -
D
D
Q
CIGARETTES.
CORK TIPPED OR PLAIN
also
G
C?
2
Wake Chit Tobacco
Jine Gut7obacco
dsdfs


PUBLIC FINANCE
Until this has been straightened out
private prosperity is not possible.
“The ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” for
February analyses the whole posi-
tion, and shows what has been done
and what remains to do.
Current balance-sheets dissected
by a staff of accountants, whose
work is at your service.
No investor can afford to be
without it.
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
ON SALE SATURDAY.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.D.: Depends entirely on the contract
you signed ; in most cases you can be compelled to
complete the purchase... .8.P.T.: Don’t be misled by
the value per share in hand. The chances are that
it will have to spend a great deal of that to main-
tain the book value of its other assets.... Regular
S.: Now, do you, really think substantial people do
business that way ?... .C.P.R.: (1) Answered else-
where. (2) Sound ; bonuses poor, but promising....
Natalite: Failed hopelessly... ~J.A.: Sell the deposit
certificates quoted highest; they should all be
eventually repaid. .. .T.V.R.; As far as we can tell
those rates ;.re likely to be maintained, with the
possible exception of the ’Asia.
Patents.— -Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Gommonwealfh and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * if
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents?
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * S: *
Corrosion cannot choke the smooth interior bore
of Pioneer Wood Pipe—it carries a full bore of
water throughout its life. This is one very good
reason why experienced engineers specify Pioneer
AVood Pipe for water supply. Other important
reasons are its great strength and durability, its
ability to give long trouble- and expense-free service,
its ease of handling and laying and the, fact that
it is unaffected by heat, frost or electrolysis. Full
information gladly supplied on application, to The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge). Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at
Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD. AND REDUCED.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores. Silver'and Silver Ores,
Gold and Silver Bullion. Copper Ores. Copper Precipitates. Scrap Copper
and of all materials containing any of these metals ’
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of'copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling priees will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company's offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries; PORT KEMBEA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. • Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send vour gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or
Port Kembla Office. The company will realise it on your account at current
London prices plus exchange, and will issue you a certificate to enable you
to collect the Gold Bounty.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Officer Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, °etc. f
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street Melbourne
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fu9a
Detonators
Cartridges
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 45 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients’ interests
Our explanatory Booklet, sent free on
request, will interest you. Write now,
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. I
Sulphide Corporation
Sulphide Corp. is evidently in no hurry
to start up at Broken Hill, where opera-
tions ceased at Christmas, 1930. The extrac-
tion during the first half of the financial
year to .Tune, 1931, was 73,43 S tons; and,
though mill costs were cut down, the net
loss for the year was £67,669 compared with
a profit of £72,593 in the previous twelve
months. Ore reserves are not very cheerful:
they stand at 707,000 tons, add that is only
five years’ supply with the mine working
normally. The Broken Hill lode is really
a saddle, with the arch at the B. 11. Prop,
and Block 14. These were therefore the
first to show signs of exhaustion. South
from the B. H. Prop, are Block 10 (ex-
hausted), Sulphide (which will be the next
to go), South and Zinc Corp. North are
Block 14 (practically exhausted), British,
Junction and Junction North, and North.
The Northern group have been amalgamated ;
there are greater difficulties in an amalgama-
tion of the Southern group, though a good
deal could be said in its favor.
The lead market moved up very well when
sterling fell away from gold; but it has
since been very uncertain and without
strength.
Australian Imperial Shale Oil Co.
This co., pioneer in Australia of the low-
temperature process of carbonising coal and
shale, is on the market for £7995 in £1 shares.
The co. and its predecessors (the present
one was registered in December, 1928) have
been working on the Shultz patented retort
for the last five or six years. It is now past
the laboratory stage; a complete unit, cap-
able of. turning out 1000 gallons of
crude oil daily, has been operating at
M ollar, near Mudgee (N.S.W.), for some
time. Pant capital is £32,005, of which
£13,400 was issued (fully-paid) to the
patentees and others. Present issue is lo
enable the co. to instal three further retorts
and a refinery, so that 5000 gallons may be
won _ daily.
Mining 350 tons of shale a week (esti-
mated to average 60 gallons of crude oil per
ton) at a cost of Bs. per ton, allowing another
4s. for crushing and retorting, and lfd. per
gallon for conversion, together with £194 ear-
marked for overhead, depreciation and taxa-
tion, weekly outgo is put at £557. From
8400 gallons motor spirit (at Is. 3d.)
and 10,500 gallons Diesel-oil (5d.), revenue,
is estimated at £744. showing a weekly sur-
plus of £IS7, or £9704 yearly. That would
be equal to 24.2 p.c. on the proposed capital.
Favorable reports have been received on
the quality of the co.’s products. Chief
advantages claimed for the Schultz invention
is that the gases are automatically drawn off
before they become “fixed” (as is the case
with ordinary coal gas), temperatures are
controlled by electric pyrometers, conden-
sation has been satisfactory, and “caking”
in the retorts prevented.
But costs of retorting have not killed
shale-mining in Australia hitherto; the
enemy has always been mining costs. The
investor will therefore want to be assured
that the job here can be done for Bs. per ton.
Australian Gypsum
Australian Gypsum Products, a merger of
Waratah Gypsum, Peninsula, Plaster and
Victor Electric Plaster, all operating at the
southern end of Yorke’s Peninsula (South
Aus.), is planning to obtain an export trade
with the East of 30,000 tons of calcined
gypsum (plaster of Paris) annually. A
shipment of 1250 tons has just been made to
Sumatra. When working to capacity, the
plants can produce 100,000 tons annually.
The growth of the gypsum industry in South
Australia has been rapid; production in
1921 was 34.353 tons ; in 1927,. 93,850 tons ;
in 1930, due mainly to the depression in
the building trade, the t. ..♦.put dropped to
40,827 tons. There is no shortage of raw
materials —one deposit at Lake Mac Donnell
is estimated to contain 68 million tons, and
the total reserve is 150 million tons. The
cost of mining and calcining the gypsum is
small, and there is no reason why the com-
pany should not land the plaster at a price
competitive with U.S.A. Apart from the
manufacture of plaster of Paris, a small
quantity of ground gypsum is used as a
fertiliser and for heat insulating.
At the annual meeting of Mining Trust,
Ltd., in London, Leslie TJrquhart said that
on three of the veins developed on New
Guinea Goldfield’s property there were 85,000
tons of ore for each 100 ft. of depth. Indi-
cations are that the oxides will average a
depth of 350 ft. from the surface. The ore
averages 14dwf. gold and 19oz. silver, making
a total value of £1,250,000 with gold at
£4 ss. and silver at Is. 3d. per ounce. Pro-
duction is expected to begin in May. The
ore to be treated is near the surface, and
carries little overburden. Mechanical scra-
pers will deliver the stone to the bins at a
low cost; mining, milling and cyaniding are
expected to make off with less than £i per
ton of ore. It is expected that 90 p.c. of
the metal will be recovered. With gold at
£4 os. per ounce, an annual profit of not
less than £1,000,000 is counted upon,
in addition to £70,000 p.a. from alluvial
workings. At Sept. 30 the co. had spent
£110,689 on prospecting and development, and
it had £177,623 in the bank. The American
Smelting and Refining Co. is sending an
expert to report on the property, and on
treatment and other problems. N.G.G.’s paid
capital is £4,065,654, with a further £356,250
at call.
* * * *
Placer Development has announced the
sale of its Bulowatt and Burnside areas on the
Bulolo River, New Guinea, to Bulolo Gold
Dredging. These areas, which lie immediately
downstream from those on which Bulolo
hopes to shortly begin dredging, are figured
to contain 50 million cubic yards of gravel,
worth about 32 cents (gold) per c.y.; un-
tested ground is believed to contain a further
10 million yards of payable dirt. Dredging
costs, including the Government royalty, are
put at 12 cents per c.y. The Bulolo Co.
intends to complete the testing of the areas,
and to instal on them two electrically driven
dredges with alO cubic, feet buckets. Placer
will be allotted '<5.000 f.p. Bulolo shares two
months after the first dredge commences, and
a further 75,000 two months after the set-
ting in of the second. After two years of
dredging on the new areas, a further allot-
ment of shares to Placer in completion of
the purchase will be made. The amount of
these will depend on the results obtained by
Bulolo. There is no cash payment.
* * :J: *
The gold-antimony ores of Costerfield and
Heathcote (Vic.) are to receive attention
from the co. formed to acquire the Austra-
lian rights of the Ferro Alloys Co.’s method
of treating such ores. In roasting an anti-
mony ore, the difficulty is that the antimony
sulphide fuses very readily and films the
gold particles, rendering recovery by amal-
gamation and/or cyaniding hopeless. With
the ferro-alloy scheme, developed in Africa
by one Amiable, the raw ore or concentrate
is mixed with salt cake (or with salt and
sulphuric acid) and roasted slowly up to a
dull red heat in a mechanically-rabbled fur-
nace. Sulphur dioxide and arsenic trioxide
are driven off; the former may be used for
sulphuric-acid making, and the latter col-
lected in chambers as usual. The calcine,
now free from sulphides, is leached with
water and the gold recovered by amalgama-
tion or cyaniding; the residue, containing
antimony oxide, is smelted to recover crude
metal. A recovery of 84-87 p.c. of the gold is
said to be obtained by amalgamation after
roasting, and 87 p.c. of the total antimony
by smelting. It will be interesting to sec
if laboratory results can be reproduced on a
lug scale—often they can’t. There is plenty-
of salt-cake available—it is a marketless by-
product in sulphuric-acid manufacture. The
main catch appears to be to get a mechani-
cally rabbled furnace that will roast material,
highly acid with salt-cake (and therefore
strongly corrosive), and give a dead roast
as well. Though most of the high-grade ore
has been picked out of the mines in question,
large tonnages of the medium-grade refractory
ore remain. The antimony sulphide can
readily be concentrated by flotation.
* * * s':
Siamese Tin,' an English co. with interests
in Malaya and elsewhere, opened an office in
Melbourne a year or so ago, and set to work
to investigate propositions in Australia, New
Guinea and Maoriland. It has now taken
over a large alluvial tin area at St. Helens
(Tas.) Here some £25,000 is to be spent
on building a race to work the property, the
water having to be brought over 25 miles.
At the moment 100 men are employed, and
when production begins it is expected that
there will be permanent jobs for SO
* * * $
Most of the tin produced in Westralia
(nearly £2,000,000 worth has been un-
earthed to date) has come from Green-
bushes, Moole.valla and Cooglegong in the
nor- west. These centres are now practi-
cally worked out, but Nannup, near by, looks
promising.
* * * *
American interests are hopeful of turning
a few derelict shows at Mt. Sir Samuel
(VV.A.) to profitable account. The biggest
of these is The Bellevue, once reckoned to
have the best shoot of gold in the West. But
treatment troubles and ore impoverishment
started early, and after three reconstruc-
tions the London co. then working the pro-
perty abandoned operations. Over half a
million sterling was extracted, but share-
holders got nothing.
United Verde Extension Co., a Yankee
concern with headquarters in New York and
copper-mines and smelters in Arizona, has
optioned the Mararoa co.’s leases near Cue
(W.A.). These leases were recently sampled
by Gt. Boulder, and turned down, mainly
because they were too far from that co.’s
base at Kaigoorlie. B. IT. Prop, was also
considering the proposition.
$ * * $
A new find has been unearthed at the
old Euro mine, near Laverton (W.A.). A
London co., floated by Pritchard Morgan,
G. W. Hall and other Welshmen, worked
this show about 30 years ago, but gave up
when the grade of the ore fell from ounces
to a few ’weights. The plant was sold and
moved elsewhere.
-1= '•!= $
Lancefield (W.A.) is to be given a further
trial. This time a local syndicate, compris-
ing Newton Moore and others, proposes boring
at depth. If results are satisfactory it is
hoped that Gt. Boulder will become inter-
ested. Recently Sons of Gwalia put down
a few bores and then left; it is said that
these holes were drilled in the wrong place.
* * « *
Now that gold is worth much more than
formerly, there is talk of a resurrection of
the White Feather group at Red Hill, and
of other reefing propositions at Kanowna
(W.A.).
* * * *
“Kaffir”; Re production costs in mining
(B. 13/l/’32). No mining field in the world
is more interested in reducing costs than the
Witwatersrand, where the average cost of
mining the 2.7 million tons monthly is
19s. sd. per ton, and the average profit Bs. sd.
The grade of ore now being mined ranges
from £2 per ton in the Government G. M.
areas (which treat 200,000 tons monthly) to
16s. 9d. per ton on the Witwatersrand
Knights (64,000 tons monthly). Van Ryn’s
ore goes 19s. 2d. per ton. On the basis of
its present production the Rand has 11
years’ work measured up. A reduction of 2s.
per ton in costs would add 111 million tons
(33 p.c.) to reserves. These estimates take
no account of ore below 7500 ft., at which
depth, because of heat and ventilation prob-
lems, it is doubtful if mining can be eco-
nomically carried on. It is interesting to
note that Wiluna’s average costs, treating
25,000 tons, monthly, are not much above the
Rand’s, which shows the fallacy of believing
that colored labor is always cheap labor.
On the Rand over 200,000 natives are em-
ployed.
❖ * * *
Malay-Siamese, a holding and prospecting
co. /.-whose vicissitudes in connection with
thejflotation of Phin Soon, Nawng Pet, Hand
Yai and kindred cos. once aroused consider-
able interest in Sydney and Malaya, has
issued its annual report to Oct. 31. Origi-
nally the capital was £50,000 in £1 shares,
but in 1927 £50,000 of reserves was capital-
ised, and the shares subdivided into ss. paids.
Last year no prospecting was carried out
because of low prices, but a property
named Koh Saba was let on a tribute
of 10 per cent, of the gross recoveries,
which totalled 325 piculs (about 20
tons). The general outlook of the co. is
very gloomy. The liquidation of Haad Yai
(Phin Soon went through the process some
time previously) was “disappointing,” to
ouote the report. The co. dropped £7465
for the year, which brings the accumulated
debit in p. and 1. account up to £98,557.
# * * *
The International Tin Committee, which
meets at the Hague, has recommended fur-
ther reduction of output totalling 15,000
tons p.a. from the beginning of 1932. The
restriction was raised from 25 p.c. to
60 p.c. of the 1930 output as from August
last. The quotas for 1932 will be Malaya,
38.955 tons; Bolivia, 24.752 tons: Java,
21 609 tons; Siam, 10,000 tons, and Nigeria,
5780 tons.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
I am a farmer, owning a farm, and some
years ago took out a probate policy. Accord-
ing to the agent the money would he paid to
my wife immediately on proof of death, and
would thus he available to pay the succes-
sion duties: hut it has since occurred to me
that this insurance money will he part of
the estate. How does it escape duties, and
how is it that it will he available at oner?
Will it he? The policy may he all right
as an investment, blit how does it stand for
the original purpose? —Bos4.
The money, or, at any rate, so much of
it as is required to pay probate duty, will
be available: there is no need to worry
about that. But unless the premiums have
been paid by others, it is highly probable
that the taxation officers will claim the
policy as part, of the estate. In N. S. Wales,
where some premiums have been paid bona
fide by others —the wife, for instance —part
of the policy has been exempted from pay-
ment of probate. In Queensland the taxing
authorities would probably go a little
further, and hold that, if a premium has
been paid by an outsider to save a policy
from forfeiture, all benefits accruing under
it belong to the outsider, and are therefore
exempt from probate, even though the
policy-holder had paid all premiums up to
that time.
I own some first-year bonds in N.Z. Per-
petual Forests. I was recently offered a
few forfeited bonds at £45 each. I would
like to know: (1) Is it possible to inspect
the cods bond-register and find out number
of forfeited bonds? (2) Is the £45 asked a
fair price , considering that the trees have
already been planted some time? (3) Is
the possibility of some return in six or
seven years very remote? (4) Would you
advise me to buy? —SoBs.
(1) Don’t be timid when considering a
transaction of this sort; ask the co. for its
register, and see that you are satisfied be_;
fore signing anything. (2) It is about £l5
more than the price for a newly-planted
acre: but whether any of these prices are
“fair” will only be known after the crop
has been sold. The “Wild Cat,” however,
understands that £45 is the usual price for
these re-issued bonds. (3) Impossible to
say at the moment whether timber can be
sold at a profit six or seven years hence.
(4) Not unless you are a speculator.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
Wool and Wheat “Futures”
A pamphlet issued by Austral Development
Proprietary, Ltd., a London co., describes
the various “wool futures’’ markets ot the
world and also the “wheat futures” opera-
tions of Liverpool. . . .
There are three markets for wool-lutures —
at Antwerp, Roubaix-Tourcoing and New
York. At each the unit of trading is 500ulb.
A slight margin above or below is allowed
for actual deliveries, but it is very rare in
any month for more than 7 or 8 per cent, ot
the quantities dealt in to be actually de-
livered, purchases usually being cancelled by
sales and vice versa. At each market a cer-
tain combed wool top is taken as standard.
In Antwerp and Roubaix it is roughly
equivalent to a dry combed weft G 6 s. In
America it is a dry combed weft 64 s.
Deliveries may be slightly better or slightly
worse within about a 10 per cent, margin of
value, and deliveries are appraised by a com-
mittee of brokers. Any combing appraised by
this committee at a bigger difference in value
than that allowed is not admitted as a de-
livery. Dealings in Roubaix-Toureoing may be
for any month up to a year ahead, in Antwerp
only up to eight months ahead. The Antwerp
market is quoted in pence per pound, the
Roubaix-Toureoing market in francs per
kilo, and the American in cents per pound.
The operator must deposit £7O for each
unit (filifcre) dealt in at Antwerp at the
time the deal is made, and 6000 francs at
Roubaix-Toureoing. At Antwerp any rise
in value is credited to the buyer on liquida-
tion of the contract, but for each complete
penny of decline the buyer must provide an
additional margin of £2O sterling.
Although the standard type in each market
is merino, it is possible for holders of stocks
of other qualities, who fear a general decline
in the market, to “hedge” all their holdings
by selling a suitable weight forward. This
is a convenience because the futures market
is always open, whereas frequently when
confidence is lacking it is impossible to sell
existing stocks to regular customers for
immediate delivery. Weeks may pass with
prices falling steadily before actual stocks
can be disposed of, whereas by selling for-
ward in “futures” and repurchasing when
the market has fallen, the margin of profit
will compensate partly for the losses on
actual stocks.
London’s wheat market is on the Baltic
Exchange, where whole cargoes and large
parcels are dealt in daily and much of the
freight for moving the world’s harvests is
fixed. There is also a market in “futures.”
Wheat is also traded in on the Corn Ex-
change, Mark-lane. But the principal
“futures” market of Britain is Liverpool,
because of its geographical position.
The wheat tenderable on “futures” con-
tracts is drawn from Argentine, Canada, the
United States and Australia. Russia is a
large seller of wheat, but this is not and
never has been tenderable.
The Liverpool “futures” market, in its
faculty as a medium for “hedging” and
“spreading” operations, is a very important
factor in the stabilisation of the price of
wheat. The business is based on a system
framed with a view to providing security
for the due fulfilment of contracts after
they have been registered by the Liverpool
Corn Trade Association. The unit of trad-
ing is the load, 4800 centals of 1001 b., the
price being quoted per cental. All con-
tracts after registration are subject to
daily calls for margins. The representa-
tives of the Clearing House Committee fix
the settling price each day, and any loss
between that settling price and the contract
price must be paid, in cash, to the Clearing
House bankers the day after the contract, is
registered, in addition to the original margin
of £2O per load. Having margined the con-
tract up to the settling price, the Clearing
House will* require, daily, an additional sum
—-if further loss be incurred—being the dif-
ference between the current settling price
and the previous settling price. So long as
contracts are open they are subject to these
margins. No credit is given. When tran-
sactions are closed, the operator can collect
his profit by instructing his agent to connect
his buying and selling contracts.
Under the contract several descriptions of
wheat are tenderable, so there may be, at
every season of the year, a reasonable ex-
pectation of supplies suitable for contract
requirements. The inclusion of Canadian.
American Spring and Winter, Argentine and
Australian permits of this result, while the
grading rules are framed upon the basis
that any of these descriptions may be certi-
fied as tenderable if sound, of sufficient
natural weight and suitable for milling in
all respects. It is impossible under the
grading system to deliver wheat that is
unsound, in bad condition, or defective in
any respect which renders it unsuitable for
milling.
Any seller who is dissatisfied with the
grade which his wheat has received may sub-
mit his case to the Grading Appeal Com-
mittee, and any buyer who objects to the
grade of the wheat which has been tendered
to him may also appeal to the same tribunal,
The Certificate of Title
Dr. Cumbrae-Stewart, K.C., Professor of
Law in the Queensland University, delivered
a very interesting lecture to the Institute of
Surveyors in his State last year, and the
text of it has now been published. The
professor had something rather startling to
say about titles. Referring, of course, to the
law in his own State (though the general
principles are of much wider application),
he denied that “the holder of a Certificate
of Title is entitled absolutely against all
other persons to the land described on his
Certificate.” He quoted a judgment of the
late Chief Justice Griffith, delivered in 3901
(just before the great jurist went to the
High Court) :
It is clear, therefore, that if it is made out
that the description of the land or the boundaries
of the land, as set out in a Certificate of; Title, is
erroneous, the erroneous description is not con-
clusive, and if the identity of the land is clearly
ascertained, an error in the description of the land
or its boundaries may be disregarded. A Certificate
of Title does not rest on a pinnacle by itself, but
is an ordinary written document to be construed
in accordance with the ordinary rules for the con-
struction of document of Title.
A man’s Certificate, in the professor’s view,
“gives him his right, but cannot be trusted
to give him all it purports to do. W hat it
really does give him depends upon evidence
outside his title deeds, and much of that
evidence can be given only by a surveyor. ’
Possession traced through a chain of lawful
conveyances or successions for a time long-
enough to exclude any reasonable apprehen-
sion of adverse claims was the only accept-
able proof of title in this country before the
Real Property Acts. Even now it is still
an important fact, and may be a deciding
factor in a question of boundaries.
Cost Price of Wool
Dear B., —My clip is typical of most in
N. S. Wales. The average weight cut
(mostly ewes and lambs) was just on 101 b.;
it is described as “well-grown, good quality,
slightly dusty,” and averaged 9.3 d. per pound
in a week whose average was 8.09 d. Out of
every £ realised I have to take these ines-
capable costs:—
Shearing (inc. packs, etc., power, classing and
carding), 3s. l^d.
Lang’s railways, Is. l)d.
Commission, wool insurance and warehousing, 9sd.
Draft allowance (lib. per cwt.), 2d.
Fire insurance, buildings and fences, Bjd.
Rates and taxes, rentals, etc., 3s. ll^'d.
Wages (dipping, marking, drenching, etc.),
2s. Old.
Salts, licks, dip and drenches, 6d.
Accountancy charges, 4|d.
Repairs to fences, tanks, drains, plant, etc.,
Is. Ojd.
Fodder conservation, Is.
Total, 14s. 10id.
No provision is made for interest on over-
draft or mortgage, living expenses for self
and family (we have no salaries or holi-
days), depreciation, exchange or the inci-
dentals in connection with a pastoral pro-
perty. On the week’s average of 8.09 d., the
costs would work out at 17s. Id. in the £,
and on the Sept, average of 6.7 d. the pro-
ceeds would not be sufficient to meet the
“indispensable” costs. Yet the Australian
Woolgrowers’ Council says the wool position
is “satisfactory” ! —Yours, .Tunee.
Wool and Exchange
“Martin M.”: Australia is singularly
cursed by a school of half-baked economists
who have held up our people to ridicule and
contempt abroad, alleging that we are in-
capable of adapting ourselves to sound prin-
ciples of finance. At the present time our
leading trading bank asks us to swallow
the doctrine that it pays Australians to
hand the country’s surplus wool to any over-
seas buyer who likes to ask for it, provided
we give the grazier what he wants for it
out of our pockets. By reason of her irn-
portance in the wool
market, Australia is the
chief offender in assisting
to depress world prices
by accepting any old
figure the overseas buyer
dictates. I suggest that
Australia, Maoriland and
S’Africa combined could
control the overseas
market by withholding
supplies until such time
as the overseas buyer
offered a price which
makes it profitable to sell.
Manipulation of exchange
is no more than a confi-
dence trick, and those
who advocate it are
merely engaged in throw-
ing dust in the people’s
eyes. Wool may be kept
many months in storage
without deterioration, and
with rows of empty ware-
houses available the total
cost of such an experi-
ment in storage and inter-
est charges would be
negligible. Anyhow, there
is more sense in directing
our thoughts into this
channel than in trying
to maintain a costly ex-
change rate by contribu-
tions out of our own
pockets, and “kidding"
the public that, by such
means prosperity will be
restored.
Lithgow Small-Arms
Activities
“Bu'll-whang’er”: After
proving that it could beat
foreign manufacturers of
shearing machinery at
their own game, the
Small-Arms Factory at
Lithgow (N.S.W.) got a
nasty knock, which the
“S. M. Herald” reports
thus: —
The representatives of
various firms interested in
sheep-shearing machinery and
parts waited on the Minister
for Defence yesterday, and
protested against the Defence
Department entering into com-
petition with private enterprise
by manufacturing at the
Small-Arms Factory, Lithgow,
certain duplicate parts of the
machinery mentioned by the
deputation. The Minister
(George Pearce) promised
consideration of the matter.
The “private enterprise”
mentioned are importers
who bring in handpieces
free of duty except for
the screws, which form a
small amount of the total
parts, and, after putting
on a thumping profit, re-
tail them to graziers and
contractors. The Small-
Arms Factory parts have
been contemptuously dis-
missed by the same pri-
vate enterprise as being
not in the same class as
the English and American
stuff. Actually, the Lith-
gow “duplicates” are not
only better, they , are also
cheaper. In fact, Lith-
gow has made such a sue-
cess of the job that the excellence of
its products is really the cause of the depu-
tation’s moan. So the Minister of Defence
is being asked to squash the manufacture
of an Australian-made article, so that manu-
facturers in England and America may sit
pretty and sell their products here without
letting the Customs benefit by even a bob
in. tariff. The question of throwing all Lith-
gow’s employees on the dole, and letting
hundreds of thousands of pounds’ worth of
machinery rust, obviously does not interest
them.
The Small-fish Shoals of the Reef.
Large shoals of small sardine-like fish are
to be found on the north-east coast of Aus-
tralia, and especially along the Barrier Reef.
It has been proved that there is a large and
permanent market for these fish, salted and
dried, in the East Indian Archipelago and
Malaysia generally. Murray Island Fish-
eries has been formed to supply this demand.
Long leases of islands in the Murray Group,
150 miles north-east of Thursday Island,
have been secured, and a party has left
Brisbane to immediately commence opera-
tions, much of the labor being supplied by
the local natives, a fine type of Straits abori-
gines with Papuan affinities, and born
fisherfolk.
Dried fish with rice is a staple food of the
poorer classes through Eastern Asia, and
such countries as Java are becoming unable
to supply their population. The co. will
have its bases on Douar and Wyer islands,
and the product will be shipped from Thurs-
day Island. So huge are the supplies of
fish, and so small the cost of drying and
salting, that prices will be within reach
of the very poor consumers.
A trifle more than 4,500,000 rivets were
used in the construction of the Sydney
Harbor Bridge. But the days are past
when a swinging sledgehammer drove red-
hot rivets; in all big construction jobs nowa-
days the mechanical riveter operated by
compressed air does the work. For the very
responsible part of leading in this air, Aus-
tralian-made hose (a Dunlop-Perdriau pro-
duct) was used throughout the Harbor job,
and, despite extraordinarily severe surface
abrasion, it stood up to the high pressures
with the utmost success.
* * * *
Innisfail, which for years was the “mil-
lion-pound town” of North Queensland, will
henceforth be the “two million-pound town,”
as more than £2,000,000 will be distributed
in the district as payment for sugar produced
during the 1931 season, when production
equalled approximately 41 p.c. of Australia’s
annual sugar consumption. The mills m the
Innisfail area. Goondi, Mourilyan, South
Johnstone and Tully, made approximately
125.275 tons sugar from 855,000 tons cane,
grown by 850 farmers, and cut by 1000
cutters. It is anticipated that the final aver-
age home price will be £l7 10s. per ton. Of
the money distributed approximately one-third
goes to the mills and their employees, the
remainder to the farmers and cutters.
* * * *
Commonwealth Bank notes issued at Jan.
25 amounted to £52,303,426 as compared
with £45,653,426 a year ago. At the latter
day the gold backing was 15 millions odd;
at present it is 10£ millions —33.70 p.c. a
year ago, 20.08 p.c. now. However, except
for its psychological effect, our gold holding
is not important at present, we being “off”
gold; what is of more importance is our
holdings of money in London. A year ago
the bank had only £4,662,000 there to meet
pending interest and other payments ; the
total is now £15,570,000. It is in view of
this increase of Australian money in London
that great difficulty will be met in holding up
the present exchange rate.
* * * *
“Valerin”: Why don’t manufacturers of
the cheaper grade bootwear pay more atten-
tion to the insides of their boots and shoes?
Spikes are left sticking up in the soles and
heels, and the stitching and “finish” are
splendid for blisters and corns. I know
because I’ve got to wear them, and it makes
me wild to see school kiddies hobbling to
school in these contraptions. It’s the usual
case of “good enough” that makes Austra-
lian products suspect in every market.
***=!••
“The Lamb” : My testimony. Salary, £5
12s. 6d. per week (£6 12s. 6d. before April,
1931). During last two years have had
two half-days off. Work Sundays and holi-
days. If I took a day off I would have to
pay for a reliever. Working hours, 63 per
week. Attend to after-hours’ requirements
as offset to house accommodation rent free.
Dago restaurant-keeper? No. Manager of
a Vic. pharmacy. Three of my friends are
civil servants in varying capacities. Two
of them have recently been ill. Time off on
full pay (all more than mine, by the way).
Annual holidays ditto. No Saturday or
Sunday work and all public holidays. Hours,
9-5. If the U.S.’s privileges are curtailed or
they are asked to work, the moans are heart-
rending. I record this contrast, which tells
nothing new, as another protest against an
over-loaded civil service. There are too few
mes keeping too many thems, and having a
thin time doing it.
BEGIN DISARMAMENT AT HOME.
“There were 59 cases of shooting last year, 16 of them fatal; and this year has begun badly.”
AUSTRALIA: “You pacifists are always talking disarmament. Why don’t you disarm the thugs
who commit this kind of outrage?”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.'!•>
Her Majesty's “The Merry Widow”
‘ 3TATB Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK. :
“ OYAIi “Sinbad the Sailor” Pantomime
Kjng's “As Husbands Go”
* TATE Movies and Talkies
_
These Pagan Cults
“Sir, —Surely nothing so destructive of modesty
and morality has so far been attempted this cen-
tury as the efforts of this Pagan cult of nudity.
The moral sense of the community ought to declare
war on such moral degradation without delay.
Such a cult will do much to bring us to the level
of Sodom and Gomorrah.” —Melbourne "Herald’'
correspondent on the nude cult.
Having visited all the most famous cities
of the New and the Old World, I at
length found myself in the renowned • city
of Melbourne, the capital of the thriving
State of Victoria, spoken of wherever men
of intelligence and understanding forgather
as the Athens of the Southern Hemisphere,
whose enlightened inhabitants have repro-
duced the Golden Age of Pericles. I gazed
with awe and admiration at her stately
public buildings, where teeming myriads of
civil servants toil like bees from dawn to
sundown with no thought beside the general
welfare; at her
busy streets, lined
with colossal edi-
fices and swiftly
flowing with scent-
1e s s automobiles
and noiseless elec-
tric tramcars; at
her mighty Houses
of Parliament,
where sat grave
and reverend legis-
lators, devising in
a spirit of sweet
reasonableness
laws which were a
model of simplicity
and perspicacity;
at her museums
art galleries
thronged with
earnest seekers
after knowledge;
at the noble river
"Basking in the
admiration of small
boys.”
Yarra, reflecting on its perfumed bosom the
arches of innumerable bridges, designed as
much for beauty as utility. I surveyed her
magnificent theatres, exclusively devoted to
the inspiring works of her own poets and
dramatists. I walked from block to block
of gigantic shops and buildings, pursued
wherever I went by the strains of the music
of the greatest composers, disseminated
gratis by the radio-broadcasting companies.
I visited the police headquarters. They were
closed and shuttered. Peeping through a
chink in a window blind, I saw dust lying
thick on the archives. At the rear of the
building I found an aged and toothless jani-
tor engaged in translating Greek elegiacs
info Australian. He told me that no arrests
had been made for so many years that all
the police force had been put on pension.
I sat in the open-air cafes, where the citi-
zens gathered over a cup of tea or a glass
of the famous wines of their native vine-
yards discussing such'subjects as the latest
development of the theory of Relativity. As
I was being carried to my hotel on one of
the moving staircases which take the place
of pavements, I witnessed a collision between
"Enjoying the care-free pleasured of the open air.”
two motor-cars, in wliiqh both drivers gaily
waved to each other an*l shouted, “It was
my fault, sir; send the account for
damagea.”
Despite the fact that my capacity for awe
and wonder was well-nigh sated, I proceeded
to St. Kilda, where the entire populace had
repaired for rest and recreation, it being a
public holiday. I stood in amaze-
ment at the spectacle of the mighty fore-
shore, lined as far as the eye could reach
with temples and palaces of art, literature.
science and learning,
which were linked by
colon nades containing
thousands of statues of
their poets, painters,
authors, statesmen and
heroes, executed by their
own sculptors and rival-
ling Phidias, Praxiteles
and Rodin in vivacity and
faithfulness to life. As I
stood rooted to the spot,
lost in an ecstasy of de-
light, a gentleman describ-
ing himself as a beach
ins p e c tor courteously
offered me his services as
a guide to fresh marvels.
I recognised in him a
man of culture, intelli-
gence and refinement. We
strolled along t the beach
while he pointed * out* to
me features of the
“Combing her
wind-blown
hair.”
social life of the Victorians which might,
otherwise have escaped nie. Pointing
to a vast open-air amphitheatre, larger
than the Roman Coliseum, he informed me
that there the people accustomed themselves
to healthy exertion by playipg the "national
game of football. No spectators tvere per-
mitted, all being partakers in the manly
exercise. We approached a venerable figure
seated on the sand in a simple robe and
sandals and surrounded by a group of
earnest youths, and maidens. My acquaint-
ance explained that he was a'professor from'’
the university. His oratory was, singularly
forcible. The purity of style,-grandeur of'
diction, loftiness of sentiment and dignity of
soul which characterised his utterance were
reflected in the faces of his hearers. Then
we came to a group seated at the feet of
another venerable figure, whose countenance
was alive with the ardor of faith and illumed
with the light of wisdom. He was the
director of their
national school of
.painting, supported
by the.. Government
he could
devote his entire
-time to instructing
his pupils in the
problems of art in
the presence of
Nature; the great
exemplar.
“And so .we pro-
gressed, , passing m
turn,a great singer,
who ’ was singing
without fee to a
circle of enraptured
fellow-citizens, al-
though she had been
offered fabulous sums
to go abroad; a poli-
tician, who was
calmly, ruthlessly
“Like a hunared
Greek statues come
to life."
and objectively analysing the shortcomings
of his own polity ' and pointing out
the redeeming virtues of the opposition plat-
form : a famous medical specialist who was
describing to his students how he had per-
formed three operations for appendicitis,
only to discover that his patients had no
appendices at all ; the editor of a weekly
journal, who was distributing copies of his
paper containing a true account of his own
private life, instead of an exposure of the
life of someone else; and many more mar-
vels even greater than these.
Entranced, bewildered, in a delirium of
astonishment, I turned to my friend and
asked him if he could give an explanation
of it all. He pointed silently along the
beach. We were approaching the public
bathing-ground. It was packed with persons
of both sexes, enjoying the carefree plea-
sures of the open air. Near us a bronze
Adonis, his body lean and strong, his hips
narrow like a
wolf’s, his limbs
rippling with
muscle like wheat
in the wind, stood
basking in the
admiration of a
number of small
boys. Further on,
like Aphrodite
risen from the
foam, a girl was
standing, in frank
unco nseiousness
of the world,
combing her
wind-blown hair.
A life-s avi'ng
corps, like a hhn-
d r e d Greek
statues comes to
life in all the
naked glory of
“A man of culture,
intelligence and refine-
ment.”
their youthful strength and grace, was per-
forming its evolutions in the sand. A thou-
sand Venuses disported in innocent nudity
amidst the tumbling waves. Nobody wore
clothes, or’, if they wore any at all, it was
solely for protection from the fiercely burn-
ing sun. I looked at my guide inquiringly.
“It really began here,” my friend said,
his face beaming with gentle enthusiasm.
“Recognising that modesty was not a matter
of clothes, that
purity of mind was
not a question of
“V’s” that morality
was not necessarily
synonymous w i t ii
neck-to-knees, that,
in short, to free the
body was to free the
mind, our people de-
manded a radical
change in the beach
regulations. A Royal
Commission. c o re-
posed of those en-
lightened bodies our
ba.vside councils was
appointed and a progressive policy laid down.
Our leaders of thought co-operated, the news-
papers, always in the van of public move-
ments, ardently assisted, the churches unani-
mously threw in their’ support, and our
legislators, after logical consideration en-
shrined the wishes of the electors in a series
of wise decrees. The immediate result you
see before you. The indirect effects'can be
guessed. Our Parliament became honest,
our philosophers frank, our thinkers cour-
ageous, our artists joyous and free, and our
writers rid themselves of hypocrisy.”
Toj collect my thoughts, I lay down, upon
the sand. X must have fallen asleep, because
presently I heard the beach inspector’s voice
again.. I looked up. He was standing over
with a threatening look upon his face,
j e • ’ he said. “You can’t loiter ’ere.
And look ere, you’ve got your shoulder-
strap down. Dontcher know ’ow to behave
decently on a beach?”
On the heels of its umptieth‘“Florodora”
revival, which was as.very nice revival, the
Firm, at Sydney Her Majesty’s on Saturday,
revived “The ’ Merry Widow,” which was
also a very nice revival, with Dot Brunton
softly piping the melodies of Sonia, Frank
Leighton singing and capering brightly as
Prince Danilo, and Leo Pranklyn revelling
in the clown part of * Niscli. The costumes
were made;: in Melbourne,\*but':the real Moet
et Cluuidon fizz (this'sis; where the'stage of
tmday scores so heavily over the .poverty-
stricken, barnstormers of" yesterday) came
from a Sydney vault. ■ Waltz,which
great hit when it was first''performed,
suffers a.,little in J. 932 .from the fact, that it
has been Fear'd' so many times before and
doesn t wear quite as. well-: as those of
Ntrauss, junior, which are to be given an
airing shortly' in another venue. The Hat
Tzjh.e other distinctive" feature of’the first
Widow -has-been dropped "these: many
years. Sonia s nut being covered bv a coronet.
It- is-unlikely-that' the Hat-Twill 'return until
1035, or 1936. The music throughout is
cleverly catchy.: It'lids been' suggested that
the Viennese bandmaster who scored it got
a good deal of it from sources other than
the ether, but that’s a matter between him
and his conscience. Lehar, at that, wasn’t
nearly as clever at pinching themes as that
very much greater citizen of Vienna the
“Abbe” Liszt, and it’s hard to see how the
Slav idiom can be inserted in music without
some copying. The plot of the “Widow,”
such as it is, dates back beyond Noah, but
the plot of a comic opera doesn’t matter
much when the piece is presented so capably
as the Firm does these things. But, of
course, it has had a lot of practice with the
“Widow.”
The band contests held in Sydney pro-
duced a lot of excellent music. Winner in
A Grade was Hamilton Citizens’, with Bondi
Beach, 55th Battalion and Tooth’s Brewery
running up close. The performance of these
four bands in the “own-choice” selection
moved that experienced and careful judge
Albert Wade to say that he had never heard
such wonderful playing in 40 years. For
the first time in his career as an adjudicator
he had found perfection—ssth Battalion’s
playing of a Liszt fantasia, arranged by Dr.
T. Keightley and the conductor of the band,
iC. Goughian—for which the full 100 marks
was awarded. These bandsmen are good
sports. In the trombone solo competition,
the listeners, mostly members of other bands,
were so overcome by enthusiasm at the virtu-
osity of F. A. John, who belongs to Tanunda,
South Australia, that they broke into loud
applause. Adjudicator Wade, in a speech
at the end of the contest, said: “I
think something should be done for these
bands, so that it should not be necessary for
them to go round the street corners
begging for pennies.” This Showman heart-
ily agrees. Brass bands are working-class
organisations; they have their own place
in our social life, and their musical achieve-
ments in many instances deserve to rank
alongside the finest products of the con-
scrvatoriums. They do more than any other
agency to improve the community’s musical
taste, and save in a few isolated cases whem
they receive subsidies they find it a hard
struggle, especially in these times, to pay
for their own instruments, uniforms and
training. The matter is one which it is
surprising to find neglected in a continent
so prolific as this is in politicians who pro-
fess to be the friends of democracy,
* *
“Leap Year,” presented at Sydney Roxy
Theatre on Saturday night by Frank Neil’s
company of comedians, is a bright and
breezy jumble of revue and vaudeville. One
of the features is the first, appearance in
Australia of the Chong Chan Fat troupe of
Chinese acrobats and jugglers, which is as
clever as any combination of the kind Aus-
tralia has seen to date. The Alvarados are
responsible for an excellent display of ath-
letic dancing, and Elsa Lewis, a whistling
violinist, wins the approbation of the multi-
tude. Other good turns include the Dal-
mars, juvenile acrobats, and Molly Byron,
balladist.
* * *
The New Sydney Repertory Soc., which
on Saturday presented at St. James’s Hall
a new series of Grand Guignol plays, seems
to have got its units mixed. The White
platoon emits the sonorous lines of Shaks-
peare in the manner of a tired radio an-
nouncer quoting the price of fish. The Red
shock troops, who present modern pieces, in
which most of the characters must be pretty
hard-boiled or they’d never be able to get
through such a lot of murdering without
serious mental consequences, declaim their
most trivial sentences as if they were quot-
ing Burke to a public meeting. The Grand
Guignol lads and lasses, who on Saturday
night had a regular orgy of corpse-making,
should be given a go at the Bard, and the
budding Allan Wilkies should bring their
air of weary detachment to the one-act
horrors, which would thereby be much inten-
sified in effect.
* * *
Nat Phillips and his vaudevillains con-
tinue to hold the stage at Sydney Grand
Opera House with weekly change of pro-
gramme, this week’s presentation being a
revue, “Very Nice Too.” In addition to
the fallabout fun of Joe Lawman and Stiffy
there is a demonstration of wrestling by
Billy Meeske, "who is a good showman.
Angela Parselles sings sweetly, aided by the
natty ballet. Worthy of mention also is
Keith Connolly, who is as versatile as Stiffy
and appears as often.
* * *
The ship of “Sinbad,” at Melb. Royal, will
be dry-docked for examination and repairs on
Saturday. The Firm will then present a
musical distraction of unusual interest in
“The Chocolate Soldier,” in which Gladys
Moncrieff will appear as Nadina for the
first time. Additional significance is lent to
the occasion by the fact that Oscar Straus,
who wrote the music, is said to belong to
the family that was responsible for the music
of “Waltzes from Vienna,” concerning which
the Williamsonian battery of propaganda has
been sending out heavy streams of tracer
bullets for some time past. Why Oscar
dropped one of the family “s’s” is not dis-
closed. “The Soldier” is said to have been
based on Shaw’s “Arms and the Man” and
G.B.S. is said to have repudiated the claim,
though he is also alleged to have accepted
the royalties.
# *
One of me pleasantest and most deserving
theatrical exhibits seen in Melbourne for
many a day comes to an end when “As Hus-
bands Go” goes from the King’s this week.
->cxc occupants of the King's will present
“The Barretts of Wimpole Street.”
# # *
Amongst the minor casualties of the week
in Melbourne was “Little Red Riding Hood,”
which was finally swallowed bv the wolf of
theatrical necessities at the Playhouse on
Monday. “Venus, Ltd.” continues the even
tenor or soprano of its existence at the
Palace.
¥ * *
Melbourne’s latest dramatic organisation,
the Little Theatre Co., which took its first
plunge a couple of months ago from the stage
of the Assembly Hall, has removed to the
Kiosk Theatre, Fawkner Park. Its first
production there will be “The Rescue Party, "
by Phyllis Morris, billed for February 10.
The Palette
If the shade of J. F. Archibald had wan-
dered into Sydney National Art Gallery the
other afternoon when a capricious ray of
sunshine illumined a score of the finest
entries for his prize for portraiture and lefr
, h A shr ° u a e d in gloom, his heart
(Archibalds shade surely would have a
heart) would have rejoiced. The first im-
pression was of a big bay of the gallery filled
with the sort of portraits that look as if
they could speak. To this impression a rela-
tively few painters contributed—Buck-
master, Mclnnes, John Longstaff, Norman
Carter and Napier Waller, to be precis-'
Buckmaster has more style than all the
others rolled into one. He makes pictures
as well as portraits. His old lady in black
is a three-volume novel in paint, and
well written, too. Buckmaster makes ’people
look more like themselves than they ever did
look. It doesn’t seem possible to improv--
on Buckmaster, with his dramatic lights
and shades and irrepressible smartness and
snap. But there is also Mclnnes, suave
where Buckmaster is snappy; viewing things
through a very faint golden haze, whereas
Buckmaster photographs everything in one
blinding lightning-flash. Mclnnes’s people
also live, and have a story to tell. A little
more reticently perhaps, but then they are
very nice people. There’s a painter at his
easel. He’s a very good painter, and fie
knows he’s a very good painter, and all’s
well with his world. But now Norman
Carter takes the stage with a man who
seems to lean half-way out of the canvas—
a very real man, who looks as if he could
eat Mclnnes’s sitters and wouldn’t give a
damn for any of Buckmaster’s. Escaping
from this masterful person you butt into
another—a knight in evening dress. Long-
staff did this one, and did the sitter proud,
too, whoever he is. The next one along
to strike the eye is the prize-winner—Long-
staff’s portrait of John Sulman, president
of the Gallery Trustees, who are also the
judges. No, it isn’t a case of Father
Murphy winning the piano. The original
of the portrait declined to take part in the
judging, and there is no ground to
quarfel with his brother trustees about their
decision. The Sulman portrait is a remark-
ably faithful piece of work, not nearly as
spectacular or as stylish as some of the
others, but impeccable in workmanship and
a worthy representative of Australian por-
traiture. Some other very .fine portraits
that didn’t get into the fortuitous ray of
sunshine are by J. Wolinsky, Marian Mont-
ford and J. S. Watkins. And, lest we Aus-
tralians should get too puffed up about our
Art, there are ±0 or 30 entries too horrible
for words.
Sharing the same, bay as the Archibald
Prize entries are a few landscapes entered
for the Wynne Prize. A carefully-painted
water-color of red gum-tree boles, by Hans
Ifieysen, the property of the Gallery, wins
this prize against almost negligible competi-
tion. A scene by Robert Johnson in the
Streeton style, very nicely composed, and a
couple of not-so-bad canvases by J. Rowell
are the only' other glimpses of Australia
entered that aroused anything save enmity
in this critic’s breast.
Poverty Point
“Props”: “The Merry Widow” title was
first used in Theatreland for Leicester Buck-
ingham’s two-act comedy, adapted from the
French piece “Jeanne Qui Pleure, et Jeanne
Qui Rit,” produced at the London St. James’s
in 1863. This was under the regime of Ben
Webster, and Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Matthews (who toured Aussie in 1870) were
the stars. The plot of < Lehar’s opera ob-
viously is taken from Meilhac’s “L’Attache
d’Ambassade,” produced at the Paris Vaude-
ville in 1861. A German version is known
as “The Embassy Attache.” Ir* the course
of litigation in U.S.A., a quarter of a cen-
tury ago, when Savage tried to stop Gertie
Hoffman from doing the opera, there was a
determined attempt to show-, that a lot of
Lehar’s “Merry Widow” music was plagiar-
ised. Gertie showed that the famous waltz
might have been suggested by the waltz in
Planquette’s “Les Paradis de Mahomet.” It
was also claimed that the song “At Maxim’s”
is identical with a very old French folk
song “Chanson Provencale.” Anyhow, the
Judge was dubious about the originality of
Lehar’s score and declined to suppress
Gertie.
“Craiser”: It is generally conceded, what
with the joint influence of Edgar Wallace
and Hollywood, that the theatre has never
sunk so low as it has at present. So de-
praved has it become, so prone to portraying
scenes of horror and violence, so given over
to the depiction of crime and deeds of blood,
that it is unsafe for the adult population,
not to mention the adolescent or infant
population, to be admitted to it until an
impressive board of censors, with appeal
boards and Cabinet Ministers as additional
protectors, have purged it of its grossest ele-
ment.. I have before me the bill of a play
containing 22 characters. One of the lead-
ing persons is stabbed to death. His brother
is also murdered. The hero is stabbed to
death. Two of his sons are executed and
another is killed in battle. A female char-
acter is done to death with daggers, . but
before she expires her sons are baked in a
pie and served up to their mother. A nurse
is stabbed, and it is not quite clear what
happens to her charge, a black child, but
it is apparently smothered. The heroine has
both hands cut off, her tongue cut out, and
is ravished. Finally, she is stabbed to death
by her father. The play is “Titus Androni-
cus”; time of composition about 1564:
author, Shakspeare.
“L.11.P.”: Two Australians are doing well
in panto, this year in Fogland. Billy Percy,
so long with Pollards and J.C.W., is a hit
as the Baron in “Cinderella,” at the Edin-
burgh King’s. A local paper says he is
“a comedian of ripe experience and shows
the sound artist, in everything he does."
Florrie Forde opened at the Edinburgh
Royal on Nov 30 with “Robinson Crusoe.”
As usual, she plays principal boy. One of
her strong suits is that she can always get
her audiences to join her in the choruses
of her songs.


SEAL OF GUARANTEE
ON N ECK OF EVERY BOTTU
ETAT MEANS
"STATE" vis
OWNED BV THE
STATE OF FRANCE
"
l?s
lo
tio,
'JLo,
W
J-.T
r
BOTTLED It CUARANTEED
PURE OV THE FRENCH
COVERNMENT
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
ricity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters, is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS it the
NAME Of THE SPRING
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
15he following statement defies contradiction}
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what you should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, dubs, restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the world.
Insist on CELESTINS. VICHY WATER.
Gxamine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Sole Agentstor Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, A.S.W.
VICTORIA: WEST AUSTRALIA :
STATE.
DISTRIBUTORS
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co. f
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
śdf
AMERICA
The World Between Two Seas
HP HE castanets of Old Spain still
clack in California . . . San
Francisco’s Chinatown holds the
scented breath of the Orient ... in
New Orleans Bouillabaisse is served
with a Gallic accent ... northern
soil is tilled by scions of Viking
forebears ... while over New Eng-
hedgerows linger the tradi-
tions of Old England.
Diverse origins, yet a united people.
Diverse scenic marvels, united in
beauty.
Providing the fullest opportunity to
see all the diverse aspects of Amer-
ica is the surpassing service of her
railways. Frequent trains in every
direction—comfort assured by the
most modern appointments—cour-
teous, personal attention that facili-
tates every arrangement. You may
cover an extensive itinerary at sur-
prisingly low cost.
Plan your visit to England to include
America, reached on swift Matson
liners via New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa
and Hawaii to San Francisco. A
free illustrated booklet will gladly
be sent upon request.
Write to Dept. Al.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL AND
INFORMATION BUREAU
12 Bridge St., Sydney. Tel. B 7981-3
.V :
Where moun-
tain climbers
are in
glory.
COMING
OVERSEAS EVENTS
NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE
CONVENTION
Honolulu ... May 4to 6, 1932
EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
Dublin, Ireland, June 23 to 26,
1932
Book via MATSON for the ut-
most in travel comfort, pleasure
and convenience.
Below: New Year's Day cele-
bration in San Francisco's
Chinatown—like a scene in old
Peiping.
1
m
m
SHADOW SHOWS.
Paramount’s “Rich Man’s Folly, at
Sydney Plaza, is an old theme Holiywood-
ised. Dickens exhausted the tragedy of the
captain of industry who subordinates domes-
tic affection to business, and finds m trie
end that money doesn’t mean happiness. In
attempting to go one better, the producer ot
“Rich Man’s Polly” has made a good story,
and George Bancroft ridiculous. As trie
head of Trumbull and Son, who have been
building bigger and better ships for genera-
tions, the large proletarian-looking star is
as temperamental as a lady of the halt-
world. When the talkie begins he is hoping
that his wife will give birth to a son. She
does. Hysterical rejoicings. Gloatmgs by
the cot. Death of the neglected mother.
Eight years later the boy, a weakling, is
forced to christen a ship in the rain, and
becomes dangerously ill. Abject terror or
Bancroft, who is shown in monstrous close-
ups, and otherwise, sweating, blubbering
and calling on Gahd Ahlmighry for mercy.
Death of the boy—and how the man who
was to blame for Bancroft’s bellowdrama
achieved anything so simple and right as
this scene is another of the movie trade’s
manifold mysteries. Meanwhile, the mag-
nate’s neglected daughter (Frances Dee, of
the lovely voice and articulation) and
Robert Ames, a business rival, have been
falling in love; and when he returns from
Europe with a new wife they get engaged
and are cast off. His business crashes, and
his wife lets him down. JEschylus would
have left it at that, but the producer of
“Rich Man’s Folly” makes his victim of
Fate sabotage a partially-built ship, and get
knocked out in a lively scrap with his work-
ers. As a crowning anti-climax, he is shown
reconciled to his daughter and gambolling
sloppily with her children; purged of the
dross of pride by adversity, a model grand-
dad. With half Bancroft’s over-done busi-
ness and all the close-ups of his grimacing
countenance cut out, this might be.a good
picture. The children are wonderful in
their freedom from staginess, particu-
larly little David Durand. He is manly in
life, and he dies without mawkishness.
Violet Compton is suitably worldly as the
second wife, and the small parts are well
played. The photography might be more
inspired considering the opportunities that
are given in the great shipbuilding works,
where most of the action takes place.
* *
“Beyond Victory” (Pathe), at Sydney
Haymarkct, shows why five men went to the
war. Machine-gunners, they are facing a
German advance; shells whine over and
crash, hurling up fountains of earth ; and as
each man is wounded he tells liis reason or
lack of reason for enlisting—illustrated by
“flash-backs.” Lew Cody invites Marion
Shilling to his flat. Finding it is to be
tete-d-tete, she virtuously prepares to
depart. Then another lady friend ’phones
demanding the reason for Lew’s inatten-
tiveness of late, and would he come
over to her place? He says no, and
adds the first lie that comes to his tongue,
saying that he has enlisted. Ills new girl,
overhearing this, changes her mind about
going and declares she will not leave him
until he joins up—he is a hero ! After that
Lew simply had to enlist. Jimmy Gleeson
is much married to Zasu Pitts. She is a
professional knife-tlirower and he does the
housekeeping. Enlisting is his only chance
of escape, and he takes it. To him Bill
Boyd gives his reason —possibly because they
are the only two left. A New Orleans
plantation-owner, he was to marry a German
(Lissi Arna). He broke with her to enlist —
he couldn’t marry her and then go shooting
her brothers. The scene shifts back to . the
trenches. The Germans advance unchecked
by a mined bridge. Bill and Jimmy are
blown up, but are saved by the Red Cross.
They are taken to a German hospital; Bill
is dying through loss of blood. Lissi finds
him and gives him some of hers. Peace
propaganda, and rather well done.
The other Haymark t feature, “Worldly
Goods” (Celebrity), tells what happened to
a soldier after the w T ar. Jeff, an aviator
(Ferdinand Schumann-lleink), is blinded by
crashing in his ’plane, jerry-built by John
C. Tullock (James Kirkwood). Jeff returns,
swearing vengeance against this profiteer.
Mary (Myrna Kennedy) is waiting for him,
but, not wishing to burden her with a blind
fiance, he orders his pal Jimmy (Eddie
Featherstone) to tell her he died and was
buried at sea. She returns to the chorus.
Jeff (in spite of his blindness) and Jimmv
get jobs in a Tullock aerodrome. Tullock
meets Jeff by chance, and, admiring the
youngster’s pluck, says he is Smith, the mil-
lionaire philanthropist, and will finance an
operation. Operation is performed. At this
stage Tullock returns home to a party—tired
business men and chorus girls. Cassie
Shannon Day brings her room-mate, Mary,
who; cannot forget her soldier. Tullock is
captivated, and when Mary refuses his “busi-
ness proposition,” proposes marriage. Mary
accepts, virtuously expressing the hope that
he may win her love in time. Jeff’s opera-
tion is successful, Tullock confesses his
identitv and is forgiven by Jeff (because he
has repented of liis profiteering and reformed),
Jeff is taken to Tullock’,s home and meets
Mary. They tell Tullock they were
acquainted; he sees they still are lovers.
He gets Jeff, now his private pilot, to take
him aloft. They are flying over the sea.
Jeff speaks, there is no answer and he turns
to find Tullock gone; but Tullock has left
a note addressed to “Mary and Jeff.”
Incurable sentimentalists, the Americans!
* * *
Whether “Alexander Hamilton.” now
showing at Sydney’s Prince Edward, is an
accurate picture of the period of recon-
struction which followed the American War
of Independence or not will matter little to
the crowds it is bound to attract. It is an
Arliss picture, arranged by Arliss for Arliss,
and Arliss has been a vogue since “Dis-
raeli.” Historically the main fault of the
film is that it glorifies Hamilton at the
expense of Jefferson. But Hamilton has to
be everywhere the hero, and Jefferson gets
only one - small pat on the back, and that
for a deed which has no connection with
politics. The film is on surer grounds when
it gets away from history. The scenes in
which Washington appears and in which
Hamilton parleys with his rivals are stiff
and stilted, and as in the other _ films in
which he has starred Arliss is at his best m
domestic interludes. Tlie're is a Pretty
scene in which Mrs. Hamilton, played by
Doris Kenyon, who looks a bit young for
the part, departs for a trip to England.
In another scene Hamilton, secretary to the
Treasury, is burning the midnight oil on
State affairs. He is surrounded by a mass
of papers and books, and the meal which
he is too busy to eat is pushed aside. !
Hamilton’s intrigue with Mrs. Reynolds is
delicately handled; Arliss merely suggests
sufficient for an understanding of the story.
Upon his wife’s return there are further ebul-
litions of the domestic sentiments sandwiched
between Hamilton’s fight for a central gov-
ernment. The crisis, in which Hamilton, his
affair with the other woman having become
known to his rivals, refuses to allow his
intrigue to be cloaked by them in return
for his dropping a contentious measure, is
well handled. The photography is excellent
and the scenes in which the characters move
look genuine. The supporting cast is re-
markably good, Montague Love, Lionel Bel-
more, Morgan Wallace, Doris Kenyon and
June Collyer all contributing well-rounded
studies.
* * *
“Balmy Days” (United Artists), which
has just moved into the State Theatre, 1 re-
joices in a cast headed by Eddie Cantor,
whose clowning is abetted by Charlotte
Greenwood. Cantor appears first as ’ a
muddle-headed offsider to Yolando, leader
of a gang of thieves who conduct, a
fortune-telling outfit. Yolando dabbles in
palmistry, crystal-gazing, astrology and
table-rapping; Cantor supplies offstage
noises and impersonates > spirits. _ He next
gets a job as an efficiency expert in a bakery
business run on novel lines; the staff ss
composed of maidens undressed for the ballet.
Employed at the same place as gymnasium
instructress is Miss Greenwood, In _ his
more excitable moods Cantor breaks into
song, and the bakery employees on such
occasions drop all pretence of an interest
in bread, and form themselves into a chorus.
A very elaborately staged comedy which .
keeps audiences laughing.
H*
Of the two pictures at the Sydney Regent
“The Beloved Bachelor” (Paramount),- de-
picting Paul Lukas in the title-role, ranks
the higher. In this romance of life in San
Francisco Lukas is exactly the actor for
the part he plays, and the supporting play-
ers also fit their roles like gloves. Lukas
is Michael Monda, a sculptor," engaged to
• Elinor, who is jealous of the widowed Julie,
Michael’s charming model. Julie meets
with an accident, and Michael promises
on her deathbed that he will look after
Mitzi, her little girl. The State wants
to place the child in an orphanage, and
Michael, in order to secure her, falsely
claims to be the infant’s father. Elinor,
believing that. Michael lias been untrue to
her, scoots off arid marries another without
waiting for the facts to be explained. Michael
and two fellow-artists care for the child,
who with the passing of years turns into
a very attractive little damsel. Elinor re-
appears, and makes it plain that she would
welcome a return to her old relations with
Michael, who promises to marry her when
she gets a divorce. Mitzi then arises to
complicate matters by declaring that she
loves her guardian. A tug-of-war between
the old favorite and the adopted child fol-
lows. Youth triumphs in the end. _ Lukas
has never excelled his work in this film.
Dorothy Jordan, who plays the grown-up
Mitzi, whom everyone treats as ,a child, has
charm and personality. Vivienne Osborne
(Elinor) fits nicely into the picture, and
Charles Ruggles scores in a whimsical
comedy part. Leni Stengel, who plays Julie,
makes a brief but pleasing appearance.
A great deal of the action in “Murder . by
the Clock” (Paramount), the other Regent
film, takes place in a graveyard. The . story
begins with a rich old widow, Julia Endi-
cott, placing flowers on her husband’s grave.
She has a son, Phillip, a shambling dolt with
the strength of a Samson; a nephew, Her-
bert. a drunkard, and his wife, Laura. The
widow is found strangled. She has willed
all her cash to Herbert. Phillip is arrested
for the crime, though it is clear to the audi-
ence that Herbert, prompted by his wife, was
the murderer. After the old lady has been
buried in the family vault-Herbert’s; corpse
is found. It is another case, of strangling, and
as Phillip has escaped from quod -he is sus-
pected. The culprit, however, was Holland,
a secret lover of Laura, who was influenced
to do the job by the lady. The family
doctor brings Herbert back to life with
adrenalin, but just as he is about to tell
who attacked him the face of the murdered
widow —it is Laura in disguise—appears at
the window and Herbert dies again from
shock. Holland is the next, to go west.
Valcour, the detective, who suspected Laura
from the start, is able, after a series of
exciting encounters, to round up the lady.
■William Boyd furnishes an effective study
as the detective. Irving Pichel, who filled
a small role in “An American Tragedy,” is
seen again as Phillip; with a minimum of
make-up he suceeds in presenting a convinc-
ing, if horrible, picture. Lilyan Tashman
vamps and schemes her way through the film
very efficiently, and the gruesome atmosphere
of the piece is well maintained.
* * *
M.-G.-M.’s bulky silent picture “Ben Hur”
has had sound thrust upon it and, reissued,
has become more than ever the complete
melodrama, even to an airy-fairy little tune
that bubbles forth every time the pure hero-
ine Esther (May McAvoy) appears and
converses with pretty Ben (Ramon Nov-
arro). The only piece of acting that isn’t
incurably stagey is in the scene wffiere Ben’s
mother (Claire McDowell) and sister (Kath-
leen Key), released after' years in clink,
go by night to look their last on the old home
before descending into the valley of lepers,
and find Ben sleeping at its gates—and they
dare not awaken him, for they are unclean.
The mob scenes, the sea-fight (Rome v.
pirates), and the chariot race are cleverly
done. The scene wherein Ben Hur is in the
background, triumphantly receiving the
Hurrahs of the thronged Coliseum, whilst the
battered, villainous, ungrateful, flashing-eyed
Messala (Francis X. Bushman) is carried
off on a stretcher across the foreground,
nearly, brings the Sydney Lyceum front-
seaters to their feet.


Send TO-DAY for this
GUARANTEED RAINCOAT,
The “KEEP-DRY”
This Raincoat is hand-oiled, >
and made to keep you dry,
even in a tropical downpour.
Features storm collar and
cuffs and staunch protective
front. May be converted for
walking or riding as desired.
Guaranteed for one year. In
Japarra silk, Black or Yellow.
WALKING STYLE 79/6
RIDING STYLE ...84/-
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
The
122-132
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel
Hotel Alexander
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE <opp. Railway Station)
200 Rooms 200'Baths
TARIFF PER PAY:
Room and Meals .. .. from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from 12/6
Telephone: F 4141 (10 lines)
One of the Richardson Chain of Residential Hotels
m
a if ss*
m;A
v -y?"
• , ,-(■' •>, )'■•
£
jg!«t
I
iß.il ii
Mm
€mm
■;, *
*V
— ff
ABORIGINALITIES
“Syd Swagman” : “Spare Walton’s” story
of the tamed fish takes me back to my early
days in the pearl fisheries. I was then diving
for a Chinese merchant owner, and when
down somewhere off the New Guinea coast
ran into a 30-foot shark. Luckily, I held
in my hands at the time a huge oyster, the
shell of which I planted against the monster's
snout every time it charged. After a couple
TWO MINDS, ONE THOUGHT.
FIRST REVELLER: “It mush be grand to have a h’l’ wife who thinks just the same as
you do.”
SECOND REVELLER: “Yesh; f'r instance, if she's sitting up when I get home, she’ll make
me sit up, too.”
of minutes under water I began to run out
of air, and had to rise to the surface, with
the shark attacking me every foot of the
way. When on the surface I found that the
boat had drifted off, so I jumped on the
shark’s back, meaning to ride back to it.
The fish dived with me on its’ back and
refused to come up. There was nothing
left but to squeeze the air out of its gills.
This made it rush to the surface, but
after that it tried to scrape me off
against a coral reef. When I broke it off
that, I had it pretty well tamed. I used to
go out and explore the pearl-beds, using a
jockey s pad on my mount on account of the
roughness of its hide. Other jobs we did
well were the chasing away of other sharks,
the lassoing of octopodes for soup-making,
anu the mustering of beche-de-mer. I would
have my tamed riding shark even now but
for the borers getting into his hide when
tied up at the anchorage at T.I. I was
a long while at the pub, and didn’t know they
were at him till it was too late.
* * *
“Hamer'.’: Travelling on the M.L. rail-
ways is dull as a rule, but one trip of mine
was enlivened by watching some Wairarapa
Maoris from the way-back having their first
railway journey. It was an experience of
wonder and terror to them. They had fallen
back against the, railway buildings in a
scared fashion as the train snorted in, and
the progress up the Rimutuka line was
punctuated by ,their cries of amazement and
sudden awed silences, until the excitement
reached a’climax as the train with a sudden
roaring clatter 'plunged into the tunnel.
There was complete-darkness, as the carriage
lamps were not- lighted, and the chorused
gasps of terror subsided into frightened whis-
pers. Suddenly again, the train rushed out
into stark sunlight, , which, as often happens
on these i mountains, replaced the gloomy
drizzle that reigned on the other side. There
was a gasp of relief. “A-a-ah ! To-morrow!”
exclaimed one of. the natives.
i’s J*c .
“E.W.L.”: There were 22 officers and
23 n.c.o.’s from the A.I.F. with “Dunster-
force” in Persia (B. 20/l/’32). The defence
of the Baku oilwells was, in the original con-
ception of the scheme, a minor phase. The
whole area of the Caucasus was to be in-
cluded ; the idea was to organise the
Armenian, Assyrian and anti-Soviet Russian
elements, and we were given to understand
that “the sky was* the limit.” We all felt
that had Dunsterville been supported
by Marshall (G.O.C. Mespot.) a very dif-
ferent story would have been told of the
results of the expedition. Dunsterville was
a wonderful chap, and he had a great team,
but he was never given a fair go. Aus-
tralia left an impression on the Armenians
evidently. The small group I was con-
cerned with had the organisation and train-
ing of some 4000 Armenian-Assyrian levies,
They were invited to select a type of head-
gear, and all were in favor of the Australian
hat. That was impossible at the time, but
it is interesting to hear that the Assyrian
battalions of the Iraq levies (the same
DURING THE HEAT WAVE.
VOICE FROM THE OTHER END (on th wrong number ): “Is that the Grand Hotel?”
VOICE FROM THIS END : “No, Missus, it edden. But [ fervently], my Gor, I wish ’e
were.”
people: we moved them down to Mespot.
after the Armistice) are fitted out with
Digger hats and look very smart in them.
But they have added a white feather. Three
of the “Dunsterforce” officers served in
Russia with Kolchak, during 1919- —Judge,
O'Brien and myself. I left a copy of The
Bulletin in a Buriat village on. the Lena
River goldfields in E. Siberia when the pro-
visional Government fell and we foreigners
had to get out. ,
v M*
“Saphanius" : The other evening an eagle,
■flying low, parsed over ray head as I was
riding home from work. He kept a steady
course in a direct line and took no notice
whatever of three crows that followed him,
making an outcry and a great show of
attack, while keeping well out of his reach.
One young crow, however, was more daring
than the others and made several dashes,
almost witliin striking distance. The other
two contented themselves with keeping up
level arid urging their comrade on. At
length the youngster plucked up his courage
and put on a great spurt. The eagle, who was
very literally an ugly customer, did not
falter in his flight for a,n. instant; he merely
turned liis head and let the presumptuous
scavenger get a glimpse of two cold, evil
eyes and .one- terrible beak. It was enough.
; With a tefrified squawk the young crow
wheeled and flew hack at top speed in the
direction whence he had come. His backers,
cawing derisively, chased him a little • way
and then settled into a tree to praise each
other’s* discretion.
) ❖ ' ❖ Jj: ' $ '
“Skate” : Some southern Queensland fisher-
men landed an unusual catch the other day
in the shape of an ox-ray measuring Bft. 6in
across and 9ft. 6in. from nose to tail-butt.
Queensland waters teem with numerous varie-
ties of these queer fish, but the ox-ray, dis-
tinguished from his relatives by a broad fin
some inches wide running down the whip-like
tail, is comparatively rare. Big as he was
this chap was a pup compared with some
that have been caught up that way, for he
weighed only 4001 b, Some years ago at
Amity Point in Moreton Bay a sailing party
hooked on a shark-line a ray that measured
over 12ft. each way, and was so heavy that
the crew of six men could not haul the;
carcase up the sloping beach. It was hot
weather and there was no chance of pre-
serving what the Museum authorities reck-
oned must have been the father of all rays.
A favorite sport of these fellows on a still
evening is to leap high out of the water and
“come a gutser” flat out. The resulting noise
is like the bang of a six-inch howitzer, and
has puzzled many who have heard it without
seeing its cause.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale": Losing my way in a
maze of bridle-tracks in far-out Queensland, I
found myself at dusk at a boundary-rider’s
hut instead of the head station. The bou'n-
,dary lizard directed me, and appeared very
anxious for me to go on, a fact which sur-
prised me, as his kind generally relishes the
infrequent company available out there. How-
ever, being then a poor bushman, I demurred,
and eventually he said I’d better stop, and
asked me in for a feed. I’d had a slice of
mutton and half a round of damper, and was
picking up the loaf again “D’yer like me
damper?" he asked. “Yes,” I said; “it’s very
good damper." “Some people dpn’t like it,”
,he said, “becos I spit on me ’and's when I’m
makin' it.” 1 got rid of that slice surrep-
titiously and left early next morning. When
I told the squatter lie laughed heartily. “He’s
as clean as any man I ever knew,” he said,
“but he’s that damn n\qan it breaks his
heart to give away a crumb. He puts that
over all strangers.”
.** * *
“Waranbini”: Australia’s most notable
caveman was “Crayfish Dan,” who lived for
30 years in a seaside cavern at Warrnambool
(Vic.). He had cut a hole through the rock
for the escape of smoke from his fire; that
and his mode of life made Daniel an attrac-
tion for tourists, but the attention he received
was resented. He subsisted mainly on cray-
fish. He could catch all he wanted in the
vicinity, but unwelcome visitors persisted
in pushing parcels of them through the hole
which served him for a door, and rude boys
dropped fish down his “chimney.” Old
ladies tried to coax him back to the" ways
of civilisation, offering to give him a com-
fortable home and to look after him. These
people were insufferable pests to Dan. Along-
side his door was a notice: “Please knock.”
When a rude sfightseer neglected to do so,
Dan wrathfully pointed to the sign and
demanded: “Can’t you read?” “Yes,” said
one prying person. “But how can I knock on
a solid rock?” “Here’s the knocker,” said
Dan, picking up a gibber that lay on a
ledge near the door and tapping with it on
the dense ■wall. Subsequently Dan painted
“knocker” on the stone —and the next visitor
carried it away as a souvenir. Dan stuck
to his cave till he became too feeble to catch
crayfish; then, much against his will, he
was removed to the Warrnambool Benevo-
lent Asylum. He died there, but his cave
is still a local curio.
THE FIRST ANNIVERSARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve read all the In. Memoriam pieces over,
But I can’t find ■ nothing there that fits
my John.
Forgetting ain’t a likely thing to happen,
And they’re supposed to know where he
lias gone.
And he never was a much o’ one for resting,
When there was work to do and things to
mend; -
So I canir’t put that his rest is : sweet or
perfect,
And it don’t seem right to say a peaceful
end. ' * '
For I know it grieved him sore he had to
leave me.
He would think of all the jobs I couldn’t
do,
And he’d wonder if the boys would think
to help me—
For though they’re loving they are
thoughtless, too.
So I don’t think that he’ll mind if I just
leave it—•
The price tp some poor soul a help may be;
Though only she who’s lost a man so
thoughtful
Knows what it is to be as poor as me. !
W.A.
NABAWA.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
IT IS SO EASY
Just a stroke of the pen, the mere recording of a signature, is
all that is required for the establishment of a Savings Account
that may eventually mean more to you than any business
arrangement you have ever undertaken.
Of course, a Savings Account may not be commenced without
some money, but since a sum so small as 1/- will be accepted
as the first deposit, hardly any person, man, woman or child,
need be without this simple, easy and profitable aid to the
accomplishment of financial independence.
Record your signature now and start your shillings to working
for you.
Commoiiwcaltl) Savfnos ® ank of Hustralia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government.)
South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
fThemistocles 12,000 tons, Feb. 12
*Nestor • . 14,500 „ Mch. 8
JCeramic . . 18,500 ~ Mch. 15
*Ulysses . . 14,500 >» Apr. 23
t Euripides . . 15,000 » May 3
•First class only. fFirst and third class,
tCabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgcty 8 Co., Ltd. } joint
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd. j AgentJ
“Herpes”: Like Eden, even Canberra is
not free of snakes, and one of them was for-
tunate to receive excellent obituary notices
in the metropolitan press the other day.
The caretaker at the gates of Government
House was standing on his verandah when
he saw a brown snake dash hurriedly inside
and take cover in a hole in the flooring. The
snake’s anxiety to seek shelter was probably
due to the arrival of a swarm of politicians.
Much as the caretaker sympathised with the
apprehensive beast, he did not like the idea
of having it as a house companion, so, set-
ting a line and hook, baited with a frog, in
the serpent’s dug-out lie was soon rewarded
with a catch. Country fishermen not in-
FAIR EXCHANGE.
TRAVELLER: “Say, Jacky, can I take this road to town?”
JACKY (looking at truck): “You takem road—you gib it bag spuds.”
frequently catch snakes in this way when
legitimately fishing. A short-sighted acquaint-
anqe of mine threw a line with several
baited hooks and failed to note that they
had landed on the opposite bank. Later,
aroused by a tug at the line, he hauled ill
and found he had hooked a crow, a jackass
and a bull goanna. He showed me the
waterhole to nrove it
waterhole to p ove it. * #
„ „ Anaa „’t
O.L.A. (Buenos Ayres). There doe, n
fern any reason why you should have
trouble acclimatising game-birds in
tralia (B. 16/9/31). I here are in Ar
tana wg£t or ten species of partridges an l
two of them are abundant, and widely distn-
bated. The commonest {Nothura maculosa)
Jf about twice the weight of a Tasmanian
brown, quail. It is very prolific and th ve.
la settled districts owing to the destruc l n
°f its natural enemies—foxes, comadrejas,
etc. Great numbers go to the canning works,
and a tin of “perdices en escabeche” pro-
vides a lunch to remember. The red wing
or martinets (Rynchoths rufesceus) has
more meat than an average fowl and is a
splendid table bird. V ith a good bird-dog,
pointer or setter, both these species provide
wonderful sport. These Argentine partridges
should flourish in Australia.
Primus . The production of mechanical
aids to the teaching of letters and figures
ha « languished since the Chinese invented
the abacus, but that the field, though untilled,
Mrtde was proved in Sydney the other
day by P. G. LI. Foster, who runs a one-
teacher school somewhere up near the
Queensland border. Foster has devised a
whole host of dodges that enable a class to
practically teach itself. He showed a little
group of teachers and others his robot, which
in essence is a post to which are attached
revolving dials. There is a rack in which
rectangular cards in any variety ean be
displayed, and an improved decimalised
abacus. The whole outfit ean be manufac-
tured for 70s. or less, and its usefulness
seems to be limited only by the capacity of
the teacher in charge to develop appropriate
teaching methods. Foster has evolved
methods of his own, and found them useful
in 15 months of practical use in his school.
Anything that will lighten the task of the
sole-charge teacher ought to be welcomed
with cheers.
* * * *
“Proserpine”: Crocodiles cause a lot of
damage annually on Northern Queensland
cattle stations, the number of young stock
they get away with when watering in the
rivers being remarkable. Few people realise
how powerful the ungainly lizards are. Some
years ago A. J. Cotton, who then owned a
station named Gorgango in the Isis country,
imported a powerful Suffolk Punch stallion,
One day the beast was drinking when a croc,
seized it by the nose and drowned it. Cotton
poisoned the carcase with strychnine, and
a few days after the croc, was found a mile
from the lagoon on the track to the Proser-
pine River. He had evidently decided it was
time to consult his medical practitioner when
the poison began to work, but he had left
it too late.
“Barangkali”: When I was a cableman on
Cocos Island we got many presents from
pass ing liners.
The old Orient
liner Omar gave
us our strangest
gift. Before we
went outside to
pick up the cask
the skipper had
advised us to
open it immedi-
ately on getting
it into the boat,
and as it is good
work to lift a
barrel in anything
from 10 to 20
minutes in a
heavy sea, the
two small kittens
we found wrapped
in cotton - wool
were remarkably
lucky to be alive
when the cask
was bro a c hed.
One died before
the island was
Teaclied, but the
other made a good
recovery and
quickly adapted
herself to life on
tli e island.
Although a staff
of 30 Europeans
had been domi-
ciled on the small
atoll of Puloh
Tikus for nearly
30 years, no one
had yet seen a
cat on the island.
Neverthe less,
Omar, as our cat
was affection-
ately named, had
no sooner reached
the age of discre-
tion ,than she pre-
sented us with a
litter of kittens.
Many and varied
were the explana-
tions advanced to
account tor this
unexpected hap-
pening, but the
mystery was
solved one day when the father was seen
making a furtive visit to his family. How
he came to be on the island has always
remained a mystery.
“Homfrey Beale”: The fierc-
est thing in the racial vendetta
line I’ve ever encountered is the
feud existing between the
Ivabadi and Koitabuan (no
relation to the Koitapuan)
tribes of New Guinea. Many
years before the advent of the
white man, when the Koitabuan
western sago-trading expedition
had gone, the Ivabadi, to
avenge the murder of a couple
of their youths, attacked Lea-
lea, a Caution Bay village, kill-
ing many women and children.
They carried away the only
man left and burnt him alive.
Many Koitabuan women, mar-
ried to Lealean men, were among
the victims. On the return of
the trading canoes, Lealeans
and Ivoitabuans (who up to
that time, according to native
legend, had never shed blood)
united in a grand attack on
Matapaila, the headquarters of
the Ivabadi. They surrounded
it early one morning when the
inhabitants were in heavy sleep
after a feast of pig. Believing
they had slain the whole popu-
lation, the allied army itself
feasted, to be in turn wiped out
by a Ivabadi force led by a
young woman who had escaped
and warned various outlying 1
Ivabadi villages. To this day
no word or look of greeting
passes between, the ancient
enemies should they meet, while
the three tribes, despite the in-
fluence of the white man, con-
tinue to provide more mysteri-
ous deaths and disappearances
than all the others put together.
“H.V.S.”: Prospectors intending to visit
the Rawlinson and neighboring ranges
should be warned that there is but
a remote possibility of gathering nuggets
in any great quantity. If they insist
on going there, it is best to tackle the
ranges from the eastern side, as by this
route there is far less discomfort and a'better
supply of water nnd camel feed. The Raw-
linson doubtless holds a plentiful supply of
gold in the gum-lined creek that traverses
the range at the Pass of the Abencerrages,
THE STRAW THAT TURNED THE SCALES.
FARMER MCSTINT (buying new hat): “All’ll he takin' the straw one
— it’ll be a moothful fer the coo when Ah'm done with it!”
but the last time I was in the locality, in
1899, colors only in quartz were found when
crushed and panned off—enough to swear
by but far from payable quartz. This was on
the western slope of hills in Barrow Ranges,
and possibly more colors could be got from
Warburton Ranges, but the difficulty there
is tlie absence of water. I have been pros-
pecting in Victoria, YVestralia, Northern
Territory and in the Congo and Nigeria,
and have followed mining uninterruptedly
since 1888, and I vote the Rawlinson the
worst bit of country for gold I’ve seen.
si: * * *
“Bully Varley” : Rc that python yarn of
“The Secretary’s” (B. 6/l/’32), the part
about the tip of the tail being the fulcrum
is dinkum. When a snake coils around any-
thing it starts from the tail to tighten' its
coils. Ripple after ripple run along its
body, tightening up the coils from the tail
till the pressure is tremendous. Lift his tail
up and the pressure is gone—all loose coils
in an instant, and the snake falls off. Greas-
ing, I think, would be unnecessary, as the
tail needs so little grip and is practically
prehensile. If the snake were big enough
he wrnuld get enough grip off the ground.
4c * * ' 4c
“The Nut”: “Marsh” (B. 6/l/’32) does
not know what he is talking about when he
refers to troy bank games financed and run by
Italians in N.Q. The only bank run at troy is
that kept by the gamekeeper (as in two-up)
to insure the diccbox-holder getting set and
to secure all individual bets. Immediately
the decision in play is reached it is all paid
out. The gamekeeper, house, etc., function
on a percentage from winning players,
approximately 2s. in the f. Australians own
all in the big schools in the North. Fantan is
played in only a small way by Chinese for
Chinese or anybody else who cares to have
a flutter. In my experience for many years
and with many nationalities the Japs share
the honors with Aussies as good losers.
* * * *
“FY7”: One of the Brisbane newspapers
has been conducting a controversy as to the
age horses attain, and a Darling Downs
claimant has weighed in with the birth cer-
tificate of a steed which died at 32 years
and 3 months. This hardly comes up to
the well-known case of a nag that was aban-
doned on Facing Island, opposite Gladstone
(O.), in 1847, and lived until 1883. Pro-
bably he would have lived longer but for a
severe drought, which finished off what little
grass numerous wild goats had left for the
old nag. H'e was by no means a youngster
when he was first landed there.
IN MULGALAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
. . ,
In Mulgaland, one may suppose,
They still include among their woes
The lack of all the things you meet
In town to make existence sweet
And paint our life couleur de rose.
With orisons like “Stone the crows!”
The dawn of day and eke its close
They still habitually greet
In Mulgaland
They think of dances, twinkling toes
And natty nymphs in bathing clothes
What time they grill in scorching heat,
Or willy-willies round them beat
Tn Afnlpfllnnfl
In Mulgaland fierce summer glows,
And wind as from an oven blows
On him whose job is coaxing wheat
Or cultivating wool and meat,
Or who would gold-ribbed reefs expose.
What spell for him his fancy throws
On harbor trips and talkie shows
Where dollies ring and woollies bleat
In dreams he strays, in vision goes,
To whore the ice-cold liemor flows
In many a crystal coo? retreat!
He gulps his aqua pura neat
In Mulgaland.
In Mulgaland withal, one knows,
Are compensations Heav’n bestows.
He’s none too wise in his conceit
Who holds these crowded hours a treat.
My mind runs back across the snows
And sands of half a life to those
Years when the thrills outweighed the
throes,
Years when Time tripp’d with flying feet
, In Mulgaland.
llow futile sighs, how vain heigh-hos,
For those annos preteritos!
Yet nought their memory may delete.
Would I were back, I here repeat,
In Mulgaland!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


' >
?■■ ; : .
M
&${$*>
nsn
.# '
:•: ,J
■
mmeem
" V '• • I mill*—
(BV SBfl
"x
■
PROM *9 B l/I« w V " 1 *9 ***»“» » «*«
.. HEtBOUBME —14 *. *
ADELAIDE -If » .
m
a
SI
m
m
SMOKE-OH!
“Angus Blank, a Scotsman, complained of being
swindled by confidence tricksters. Their apparent
friendliness disarmed him.’’ — News item.
Marvellous who can be done by kindness!
* *
“There were many people in Sydney who should
have taken more water with it on Australia Day.’’
And more water without it might have
been better still.
,y. #
ART OF INSULTING POLICEMEN.
“The policemen who gave evidence against
Colonel Campbell said they felt deeply insulted by
his criticisms of Mr. Lang. Any ’lighting refer-
ences to his Ma jesty’s ?•’ misters caused policemen to
feel insulted, they explained.”
Policeman's Wife : “You’re a waster.”
Policeman ( indifferently ): “Oh, yeah!”
PAY.: “Who got f 10 to shut up about
the Blud-street two-up school V”
P.: “Sez you !”
PAY.: “You deserve to be hounded out
of the force, you big crook.”
P. {with bored yawn) : “You make me
tired.”
Policeman’s Wife’s Sister (a student
of the police-court reports ) : “Let me hatfe
a go at him, Gwyladys.” (To policeman) :
“Mr. Gosling is a buffoon.”
P. (starting as if stung) : “Here! Don’t
you go and say a dreadful thing like that.”
PAV.S. (firmly) : “A buffoon, I repeat:—
a mountebank. What’s more, Mr. Lang
is unworthy of the trust reposed in him by
the deluded electors of N. S. Wales. In an
appeal to his masters, the sovereign people,
he would assuredly be deposed from the high
office which he has shown himself unworthy
to fill.”
P. (ivhitc with emotion) : “If you go on
like that I’ll forget you’re a woman and lose
control of myself.”
PAV.S. (remorselessly pressing her advant-
age) : “Mr. Lang will not be allowed to
open the bridge.” (With callous laugh) :
“Ha! That got you on the raw, you scoun-
drel !”
P.: “Oh ! Oh ! Tell her to stop, Gwyladys.
I can’t stand it.”
P.W.: “Take your medicine like a man.”
PAV.S. (implacably) : “The Lang Plan
is balderdash. Nor is there any reasonable
doubt, in the minds of thinking persons.
THE SUPER-SPORT.
“But how did you catch the mermaids?”
“Same way as trout. Told ’em funny stories and tickled
’em to death.”
that w 7 ere its author to be boiled down the
resulting product would not be Oro.”
(At this crowning insult the policeman
utters a cry of scandalised rage, and dashes
out to seek legal advice.)
“You can’t break ME,” the flapper cried.
Her father answered, “TFe shall see.”
He failed when he the test applied
By bending her across his knee.
¥ ¥
It. seems that Germany can only be saved
if her steps towards recovery cease to be
goose-steps.
SPURNED.
The beach promenade was a kaleidoscopic
mass of beach pyjamas and white trousers.
A fair member of the first-named section
almost collided with a stalwart representa-
tive of the trousers brigade. She' smiled
appealingly, lovingly, hut the object of her
affection continued on his way unconcerned.
“The brazen hussy!” snapped the old
lady on the seat.
“Can’t be bothered with sisters on Sun-
day,” said the sheik to himself as lie fol-
lowed briskly in the tracks of the girl who
had sat in front of him on the tram.
Piiir.M.
¥ ¥
“Federal Laborites did not concentrate enough or
winning the last election.” —“Labor Call,”
And many still have an absent look.
¥ ¥
“She bought a costly bedroom suite to punish
him.” —Mclbournc item.
On the old principle that revenge is suite.
*s•
FROM THE TIBER “HERALD.”
At the Forum yesterday the Slave-market
Co-ordination Bill was gagged through all
stages by the Langinus faction. In an elo-
quent oration the lawyer Bavinius declared
that the Roman eagle was fast being re-
duced to the status of a bantam. Already
many of the biggest dealers on the slave-
market had transferred operations to Gaul
to escape the iniquitous, sales tax.
A flying squad under Centurions Hiberni-
ans and Scotia raided the Baths of Dio-
cletian last night and arrested a number of
plebs, including the keeper of the bath-
house, for illegal betting.
The Marc Anthony divorce case, w 7 hich
entered on its 15.7 th day of hearing this
week, has been adjourned to enable evidence
to be taken on commission in Egypt.
The R.S.P.C.A.. has entered a protest
against the burly type of .Christians at
present being thrown to the liotis at the
Colosseum. The management has. promised
to provide- smaller Christians.
’ Our special representative in Egypt.cables
that all unions engaged on the building of
the Pyramids have struck pending a settle-
ment of their claims for height-money.
The Emperor has refused the request of
Langinus for the appointment of 200,000
additional Senators.
¥ ¥
“He went to Melbourne in May. There was no
crime in that.” — N.S.IV. Divorce report.
Yet many Sydneyites say it's murder
living in Melbourne.
alterations.
“Sensible young men now look for culture and
intelligence in their wives.” — “Sun” correspondent.
Poetic Romeos in times of yore,
Penned fervent rhymes and ballads, by the
score,
Praising their Juliets' lips, checks, eyes and
eyebrows.
Discriminating sheiks have changed to-day
Their methods: it is now the lovers' way
To sing the beauties of their ladies' high-
brows !
NOT IN THE SAME ROW.
“I don’t think we can put the politicians
of to-day beside those of the past.”
“No. Isn’t it a shame!”
“Poverty is no disgrace.”— Rev. Ruth.
Bert le Broke points out that he doesn’t
mind the disgrace so much ; it is the absence
of beer-money that worries him.
¥ ¥
BUSY DAY IN LIFE OF A PRIME
MINISTER.
11 a.m. —Welcome by Civic Fathers
around village pump of Burnie (Tas.), and
congratulations on local identity reaching
high office. Stirring speech on economic
rehabilitation of Australia.
1 p.m.—Luncheon by Oldest Inhabitants
Of Burnie (Tas.). Eloquent address on
difficulties of job and economic rehabilitation
of Australia.
3 p.m.—Welcome by Burnie (Tas.)
Anti-Communist Society, Brilliant exposition
of financial crisis and heartening oration
on economic rehabilitation of Australia.
7 p.m.—Dinner by Burnie (Tas.) Cham-
ber of Commerce. Epoch-making speech on
onerous duties of a P.M. and financial re-
habilitation of Australia.
9 p.m.—Thanksgiving rally at Burnie
(Tas.) School of Arts. Magnificent address,
which was 1 listened to with breathless atten-
tion and vociferously applauded, on multi-
plicity of duties as P.M. and economic re-
habilitation of Australia.
¥ ¥
“It has been practically decided to fun only
one class on the N.S.W, suburban railways:”
And let’s hope it will be first class.
¥ ¥
UNUSUAL STORY.
Once upon a time there was a man w T ho
w 7 as interested in horseracing. He read the
racing news each day, attended meetings on
Saturday afternoons, studied “form” and
compared performances w 7 ith the utmost
care. This enabled him, after much anxious
calculation, to forecast that Banana Fritter
would w 7 in the Bogglostown Cup.
His wife also desired to have a flutter.
She shut her eyes, stuck a pin in the paper,
and instructed him to put 10s. on Knock
Knees for her.
Being aware that Knock Knees w 7 as a
hopeless outsider, the man refrained and
pocketed the ten bob himself. Banana
Fritter won easily, so he shouted his wife
to the pictures with her ovm ten bob, arid
she now 7 loves him more than ever.
¥ ¥
“The oldest newspaper ;n the world is the
‘Pekin News.’ ” — “Argus.”
How the dentists will rush it for their
parlors when the news reaches them !
¥ ¥
“Incriminating photographs will be a feature of a
divorce case listed for this year.”
In other words, it will be taken in camera.
“At Sydney Labor Council a motion submitted
by a delegate from the Undertakers’ Union was
heavily defeated.”
However the delegate had the pleasure of
reflecting that they’d all have to come his
union’s way in the end.
¥ ¥
THE CURE,
“Some candidates were bound to lose af the
Federal election. That is so because there is invari-
ably a larger number of aspirants than the legisla-
tive seats to be occupied.”— “Age.”
The poll had been declared, and the un-
successful candidate, after seconding the
vote of thanks, was explaining the reason
for his downfall.
“It is true, ladies and gentlemen,” he
said, “that at the last election the party for
which I stand promised a hundred per cent,
increase in wages, cushioned seats for toilers
outside lottery premises, a four-hour week,
decreased taxation and free beer. It is also
true that at present DO per cent, of our
population has a no-hour week, that beer
has gone up, that taxation has had to be
increased, that last week .saw 7 50 persons
suffering from flat, feet and fallen arches re-
moved to hospital from the lottery queue,
and that you have refused me a further
term as one of the controllers of your
destinies.
“This state of affairs can mean but one
thing—it is positive proof that our system
ot Parliamentary elections is rotten to the
core, and that until we pass legislation pro-
viding safe seats for all candidates this fair
Australia of ours will never go forward to
the great and glorious destiny which is
rightly hers!” (Deafening applause.)
“Fast eating causes loss of bodily weight.”
If you notice you’re getting too thin,
Take a warning and do not eat fast.
If you bulge where your waist should go in,
Take a learning and do not eat — fast.
“Mrs. Dash, who was his brother-in-law’s widow,
hit him with a coppcr-stick.”— “Sun.”
The widow’s smite again.
* *
THE LAST TRUMP.
Fifty, sixty, sixty-five, seventy, seventy-
five miles per hour, the speedometer said.
Glory! This was travelling!
The driver shouted fiercely: “No brakes
. .. .busted. . . .can’t stop her.... .level cross-
ing. .. .bottom of hill. . . .hold tight !”
A terrible fear clutched the passenger’s
heart. If the.... Sure enough! Straight
in front was the level-crossing... . The gates
wore closed. And here was the train.
OUT OF THE MOUTHS OF BABES.
“Went to the pictures and saw a wild-
animal hunt. My word, Dad, one chap
got hard pressed.”
“Ah, a lion attacked him!”
“No, Dad —elephant tramped him.”
Pounding along. .. . Juggernaut.... The end
was very near....
The passenger gauged distances.
“What the devil are you blowing the horn
for?” he yelled peevishly. “The train w r on’t
get out of the way.”
The driver yelled back: “I ain’t blowing
the horn, you fool. That’s Gabriel!”
THE APRIL VINE.
“Weddings between April and September are be-
coming more frequent than ever.” — “Sun,”
Her eyes are bright, her Ups seek mine,
Her arms steal slyly round my girth,
And, like the tendrils of a vine,
She clings to me for all I’m worth!
THE SPELLER.
“The inability to spell a word may have far-
reaching results.” — “Efficiency” in “Sun.”
It reminded me of Mrs. Rlpggs.
“My ole man,: pore feller,” she said,
“pinned ’is faith ter hincyclopedias; an’
they was the rooin 'of ’im.
We was market gardenin’ al
the time, an’ ’e goes and mort-
gages the ’ome to buy an
hincyclopedia on the in.stal-
merit plan. After knollidge,
’e was. Somebody tells ’im
that the way ter make money
is ter specialise; so, weedin’
out everything else, ’e made
up ’is mind ter concintrate on
two lines. But by the time
’e’d ’unted through the Hoes
in the hincyclopedia trying
ter find out ’ow to grow ’ops,
and through the Haitclics to
learn all about hasparagrass,
the season for plantin’ ’em is
over, and we’re nearly broke.
“Then ’e gets ill, an’ ’e
won’t ’aye a doctor—’e says
the hincyclopedia ’ll tell ’im
all about it. ’E spends two
days searching, but there ain’t
any mention of ‘physical ail-
ments’ among the Heffs.
“ ‘You got the pneumonia,’
says a. friend ,’oo looks in one
night. Directly the friend ’as
gone ’e goes through the hin-
cyclopedia on anew lay, ’unt-
ing up ’ow ter deal with pneu-
monia. ’E was in an ’igh fever by this time,
an’ ’e collapses before ’e’s ’arf-way through
the Ilenns.
“ ‘l’m done, lass,’ ’c says. ‘No good lookin’
up the complaint; find what the book says
erbout ’Eaven.’
“Believe me or believe me not, the pore
feller ’ad ter die uncomforted. The blessed
book ,’adn’t a single reference to ’Eaven,
although I looked through the Hees from
beginnin’ to end!”
. ¥ ¥
■ “Deceased left a letter, saying he wasn’t sure
he knew how to kill himself.”
After all, it was the first time he’d done it.
“Judge believes husband’s story.”— “Sun.”
What a pity some of us men can’t marry
Judges!
SIMILE.
To find a fitting likeness for the red
Of Ups they love how many lards have
tried!
“Red as a rose”—who has not heard it
said ?
Or “ ch&rry-redor “like the ruly dyed.”
Now I myself have thought of one as true,
If not so charming as a poet’s gem:
My Flossie’s lips are of the gleaming hue
Of the cosmetic she applies to them.


d
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Gauliieia,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Hie Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY
bulletin E?uiidinqs
252 Georqe Street.
SYD N &
See announcement page 13.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 .. .. .. T. £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Firelnsurances e ff e cted on all classes of
1 Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
mrnmrnm
SH-ir’'/
*u m\
i
§§?
liii.nm liimm
&
Bf/s?
tei-r-a, .
v#i«t
I
UJL7
(j’lijilj
fl/iiii
• •
f tr,s*»i} {
H
»! !|
\\ ‘ t
> \ *,
w- y
ns
>' ' ( i' , :
The Standard of Comfort
jD OOK FOR EUROPE on an Orient Royal Mail Liner and
await the issue with confidence! The * 'outdoors ” of the
great decks; the “ indoors” of the pleasant public rooms;
the comfort of well-ventilated cabins and the excellence of
the cuisine ensure the complete satisfaction of the traveller,
, , , The route is unsurpassed. It is a succession of most
interesting scenes of natural beauty and national life*
The Orient Line Fleet includes five 20,000- ton steamers, carrying
First Saloon and Third Class Passengers. Two steamers —“Ormonde”
and “Orsova” —have been converted into Tourist Steamers, carrying
One Class Only.
FARES; SYDNEY TO LONDON, First Saloon from £ 100;
Tourist (One Class Only) from £39; Third Class from £3B
All Fares are Subject to Exchange
ORIENT LINE


START THE NEW YEAR RIGHT
GALVANISED IRON.
NETTING. KWIRE.
b mm
HIBISCUS FEHCISCWIRE.
I FARM
• MWMES.
emmiS'Sesi
GROCERIES.
FENCING WIRE, Netting, Droppers,
Gates, etc.
GALVANISED IRON, Rainwater
Goods, Piping, etc., Hinges,
Troughing, Bathroom Equipment,
Sinks, etc.
BUILDING SHEETS, Flooring,
Joinery, Glass, Paints and Oils.
STOCK LICK, Dips, Farming, etc.,
Pastoralists’ Requisites, Sheep and
Station Lines, Spraying Material,
Chemicals, Fruit Outfits, Incu-
bators, etc.
STOVES AND RANGES.
LAMPWARE.
VENUS MOTOR SPIRIT & OILS.
BOILER STANDS, Wool Presses,
Clipping Machines, Blacksmith’s
Tools, Pulley Blocks.
SAW BENCHES, Lawnmowers,
Wheelbarrows. Power Plants,
Engines, Windmills, Pumps, etc.
SEPARATORS.
PUMPS, Plows, Cultivators, Mowers,
Chaffcutters, etc.
A MONEY-SAVING CATA-
LOGUE, copyrighted seventh
edition, of over 250 illustrated
pages of all Station and Farm
Supplies.
Every line clearly priced at bed-
rock—making it impossible for
any other firm to get below them.
WE DON’T CHARGE SALES
TAX.
The main sections of the cata-
logue include:—
TELEPHONE MATERIAL.
TOOLS, Building and Gardening,
etc.
COW RUGS, Canvas Goods.
CANVAS GOODS, Rope, etc.
SPORTING GOODS, Guns, Tennis,
Golf.
LEATHER GOODS —include Suit-
cases, Saddlery, etc.
WIRELESS.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
FURNITURE, Household, Kitchen,
Laundry and Blinds, Beddmg,
Camp Beds, Seagrass Chairs,
Safes, etc.
ALUMINIUM-WARE.
ENAMELWARE.
TINNED HOLLOW-WARE.
TINWARE.
GALVANISED-WARE.
CROCKERY AND GLASSWARE.
PYREX-WARE.
CUTLERY, SPOONS AND FORKS,
Kitchenware, Brushware.
If you intend this year to save on your purchases, write for a copy
posted free.
MONEY SAVED IS MONEY GAINED. WE SUPPLY ANYONE DIRECT AT
WHOLESALE RATES, AND DO NOT CHARGE SALES TAX.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Limited
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
m
j
. /
.
The Best
Low-down
Hand
Pump
for all-round use
The “ACME” is a splendid Pump for Spraying,
Irrigation Work, Filling Tanks, Fire-fighting and all-
round use on the land.
Double-acting and of sturdy build. Less power is needed
to work the “ACME” owing to the cog gear on the head.
Valve seats are brass. Fitted for 2in. pipes.
Full particulars and Prices on application.
Many other Pumps are shown, with full specifications and
prices, in our booklet “PROFITABLE PUMPING.”
Send for a Free Copy.
Propridanj limited
“Pump Specialists
51 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
554 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116 Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
532 Murray Street, Perth.
Stump Jump Disc
Cultivating Plough
10-DISC
SIZE
CUTS sft.
14-DISC
SIZE
CUTS 7ft.
Supplied
with
levers for
either
team or
tractor
use.
fia
m
v-
» r
iffff|
I
B
1
' - *
*
§9B
W* *
‘. A 1
■•» i r !
| 588888! aSB $ '
rfjr *'
*• ,4r*tM‘\ --„
'. W ' V W» *
IB
m
■■■ m
The
Summer
fallowing
implement
supreme.
Deals
effectively
with
Paddy-
melon
and other
heavy
weed
growths.
The Sundercut has a greater sale in Australia than any other disc implement. It works successfully in any type of country, amon-st stumps
and stones in hard set fallow in virgin Mallee soils, and in fallow rank with weeds. The alternate 18- and 20-inch discs set withundercut,
cut a level bottom and leave a lumpy tilth ideal for moisture conservation. Differential Cog Jump allows high jump without increase of draught.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
H. V.McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY..LTD.
(Sunshine Section),
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide.
27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
H.
V.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
McKAY MASSEY HARRIS (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South
Brisbane.
Descriptive Folder, Price and Terms posted free on request.


THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN., General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
Head Office
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment. Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and tor cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FUEDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Royal Easter Show
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
21st TO 30th MARCH, 1932.
Nine Days Five Nights.
£14,000 —Prizes—£14,000
Entries Close:
HORSES (including Trotting events) 13th February
CATTLE and PIGS . 15th February
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CANARIES and CAGE BIRDS, 19th and 20th February
DOGS and CATS 22nd February
AGRICULTURE (other than Wheat), including FRUIT and
APICULTURE 19th February
DAIRY PRODUCE (except Export classes) 19th February
WOOD-CHOPPING CONTESTS . 29th February
Schedules and Entry Forms on Application.
Endeavour House, ’ G. C. SOMERVILLE,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Secretary.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
WHEAT AND RYE.
It was recently reported from London
that Sir Rowland Biffen, Professor of Agri-
cultural Botany at .Cambridge, had produced
crosses between wheat and rye. “which might
lead to good-quality grain being grown on
poor soils,” and that similar crosses had been
evolved at Leningrad, Russia. At both re-
search stations it was found that the first
hybrids, although luxuriant, were sterile.
Back crosses with wheat gave more satis-
factory results.
There is nothing new in all this. G. L.
Sutton, the Westralian Director of Agricul-
ture, recalls that as far back as 1898, in a
paper read before the Association for the
Advancement of Science, the great Farrer
revealed that he had produced hybrids
between wheat and rye. Said Farrer:
“Although the plants of the first cross were
.self-sterile, because the anthers yielded no
pollen, rye and wheat blended so perfectly
in the next cross, which was made by cross-
ing the self-sterile plant with the pollen
of wheat, that varieties were fixed from it
with great ease.” In the U.S.A. about the
same time wheat-rye hybrids were produced
by Mr. Carman, of the “Rural New Yorker.”
One of the hybrids fixed by Farrer was
styled Ryeland. But, according to Mr. Sutton
(one of his pupils), the idea of producing
hybrids was abandoned because they fer-
tilised themselves so rapidly that it was
feared there would be great difficulty in
maintaining the purity of such varieties.
The introduction of these varieties into
general cultivation would increase the risk
of natural cropping between such varieties,
and would tend to the impurity of all vari-
eties of wheat.
Imaginative journalists viewed the Cam-
bridge and Leningrad experiments as con-
stituting a menace to our wheat industry.
Sir Rowland Biffen gives no support to this
theory. “The hybrids,” he says, “are only
scientific curiosities.” And that was
Farrer’s judgment long ago.
SHEEP-FLY TRAPS.
“Yarry-goon-dool” : I have been staying
on a New South Wales station where 30
glass traps are in operation. The manager
has satisfied himself that attention to 30
traps will absorb the whole of a good man’s
time. Cleanliness is important, but it
matters not where the traps are placed; in
nearly every case on this station the best
catching traps were furthest from watering-
places. It is not necessary to put a trap
on a sheep camp. Sheep are inclined to
gather round the trap if there is shade avail-
able.
These 30 traps are baited with dead
horse; it took a whole carcase to bait the
lot. Some tell you dead flies make the most
attractive bait; this is not so. Your bait
needs to be something that will provide a
solid penetrating smell, not the sickening
stench of putrefaction, such as is given off:
by dead flies. Immediately the bait tin
becomes covered with a scum, or the water
in the trap goes green, you can make sure
that your catch at that trap will be a very
small one. Change the bait completely,
using fresh meat for the job, and wash the
trap thoroughly. And burn all dead flies.
A vinegar bottle is best for pouring petrol
into the traps, which must not be set close
to a meat-ants’ nest.
This station manager has in five months
caught considerably over half a ton of blow-
flies in his 30 traps. That weight was not
arrived at by guesswork; the dead flies are
dumped into tins and taken to the station
for destruction,. and are accurately weighed.
I have seen the process and can vouch for it.
11l spring and . early, summer months prac-
tically the whole of the flies caught were
the ordinary brown blowfly. Once the
weather became hot the green fly predomi-
nated ; in fact hardly any other sort could
be seen in the heap.
STAR LOTS AND INTERLOTTING.
“Sheepo”; Many small sheep-farmers
object. to having their star lots of wool
interlotted. This is a mistake, since com-
petition for star lots is restricted in most
cases to dealers and woolscoujrers. By
allowing brokers to place wools of equal
qualities . and values in one big line, the
competition of overseas buyers is obtained.
Two brothers split up a partnership, and
halved the clip. Both sent to the same
broker and had their wool offered at the
same sale. Prices obtained for the larger
lots were practically the same, but A. who
agreed to his small lots being interlotted,
received on an average l£-d. per ponnd more
for them than B, who would not allow this
to he done with his small lots.
Instances such as this occur every day at
the wool sales. If growers have to sort
their wools so that star lots are in the clip,
it is in their own interests to give the
brokers a free hand.
LOW-GRADE WOOLS.
“Lucerne Flea”: “Valerin” says (B.
6/1/’32) we can’t utilise low-grade wools
for working clothes. My maternal grand-
mother brought her spinning-wheel out
with her from Germany. All the low-grade
wool which the family’s S.A. farm produced
was scoured by her, .spun, dyed in the
hank, and then hand-woven into a kind of
home-spun tweed, from which all the work-
ing trousers were made. When these pants'
were worn out tile best pieces were cut
out and made into patchwork rugs; we
still have one, and it is quite serviceable
after 80 years. Shortly after the war I
bought some army flannel from the. surplus
stores; it made the hardest-wearing and
warmest-working pants and shirts for
winter use that I’ve ever owned % If our
mills could manufacture this kind of material
in wartime, why can’t they do it now?
A South Aus. woollen mill is now on the
job of seeing whether it can turn out a
woollen material suitable _ for working
shirts, so my idea isn’t so silly.
SEMI-ARID PASTURES.
“Jethro Tull”: Transmission of the
drought-resistant qualities of the spear and
wire grasses (B. 13/l/’32) and evolution
of superior types of these and the barley
grasses look well on paper, but the thing
w T ould entail a great amount of work and
expense which could be applied to better
purposes. In nutritive value these grasses
do not compare with many other native
species, and certainly are no more resistant
to drought. The prevalence of spear and
wire grass, barley grass and other similar
types in many of the semi-arid pastures
may be attributed to overstocking, as a-
result of which the more palatable grasses,
shy feeders, are eaten out.
I recall a paddock in which at least 20
species ,of native. grasses were found, among
them Mitchell grass, Flinders, Queensland
blue, rare blue, native oat, wallaby, coolah,
brown-top, Warrego summer, two species
of early spring,. three-star grasses, native
millet arid kangaroo grass. Spear and wire
grass was scarcely to be seen. This country
carried a sheep to the acre in dry times and
two sheep to the acre after rain. I hear
it is carrying the same number of stock
to-day. In a neighboring paddock bare
patches of soil are visible everywhere. The
feed, such as it - is, consists of rolypoly,
yellow vine, goatshead, pigweed, blue burr
and the like —a result of indiscriminate
stocking and failure to conserve fodder
during time of plenty.
, A great variety of the herbage that grows
after the winter rains makes excellent hay.
The crowfoots are first-class fodders, and
come at a time when the ewe needs to hold
her condition and flow of milk for the lamb.
Other good growers are spotted-leat'ed
medic, ball clover, woolly clover, haresfoot
trefoil and burr clover, which though short-
lived provide a fine body of feed and can
be converted into hay. There are over a
dozen species of saltbush which make excel-
lent grazing and are drought-resistant. Some
very good fodders have been introduced,
such as Rhodes grass and perennial veldt.
But reviewing our native flora in the semi-
arid regions I can see no reason why these
areas, under efficient management, should not
become very productive without the pains-
taking methods that “Valerin” suggests.
BUFFALO-FLY AND TICK.
“Bev”: “FY7” (B. 30/12/’3l) needn’t
worry much about the buffalo-fly. Starting
in 1898 we owned a large cattle property in
the N.T. It was a coastal place, and my
brother, who managed It, says the buffalo-
fly was then just as thick as the sand-fly
and no more troublesome to cattle. Any-
how, we couldn’t stop the tick crawling in.
How in thunder are we going to block
the fly flying in?
But if only some serious effort were made
to get rid of ticks! Prior to ’95, the year
the tick arrived here (N.Q.), we carried
an average of 12,000 cattle on this
property. The average since has been
round 6000, due entirely to the tick, which
works night and day, as against the 12-
hour shift of the fly. The tick peels
condition off in the first half of the year
to prepare the herd for King Drought’s
harvest in the second half. It has
meant a reduction in sales, on our property
alone, of 500 bullocks a year at least, say
£72,000 for the period, putting the average
price at £4 per head. Someone invented
dipping, and said, like Micawber, “Thank
Heaven that’s settled!” Most of us in these
parts have abandoned dipping after giving
if a good trial.
LOCATING BUSH-FIRES.
“Liss”: Bush-fires, though visible for
many miles, are hard to locate at night,
especially in thick scrub country or on the
open rolling downs of n.-w. Q. I once
organised a system in the latter district that
operated satisfactorily and covered a very
large area of country. Old artillery officers
will recognise it: I took cross bear-
ings on the fire from three widely separated
homesteads. Two of these were on a party
telephone line and were w. and s.-w.
respectively of the local exchange; for the
third point a homestead almost n.-e. of the
exchange and connected with it was chosen.
Three copies of the district map, scale four
miles to the inch, were bought from the
Lands Office, and mounted on boards. One
was hinged to the office wall at each of the
homesteads so that when not needed it lay
down against the wall and could be propped
up like a table when required. A hole was
bored at the exact position of each of the
three homesteads, and a circle divided into
360 degrees was drawn round each hole,
with zero pointing to mag. n. Through
each hole was passed a piece of cord with
a lead weight attached to the underneath
end; the three top ends were joined, a
sharpened nail or bodkin being passed
through the knot. Each of the neighboring
runs, covering many thousands of acres,
was shaded in with different water-colors,
the name being clearly inked in.
The bearing of the fire, or what appeared
to be the centre of it, was taken by means
of a plane-table equipped with back-sight
and fore-sight, pivoting in the centre on a
table marked out in degrees, zero being
magnetic n. as on the map. I laid these
by prismatic compass, two being mounted
on posts strapped to the overhead tanks at
the homesteads; the third was mounted on
portion of an old windmill tower, which
was specially erected.
Having drawn a bead on the fire we
would each of us make for the ’plio-ne and
swap bearings. The knot in the strings
was then pulled out and moved this way
and that until each string, cut its arc at
the bearing taken from that point. The
bodkin was stuck in; and there was the fire.
The, woman at the exchange was given the
result to be passed on to anxious neighbors;
the car, in which beaters, water and iron
rations were kept all through the dangerous
period, was got out, and we were soon
und.er way for a definite objective.
WASTED LABOR IN CORNFIELDS.
“Booraby”: Much time and labor are
spent’ by maizegrowers in hilling the rows,
for which no sound reason can be advanced.
It may be argued that the soil thrown
against the roots by the plough gives
support to the stools of growing corn, and
at the same time cleans the rows of weeds.
But young stalks that are bent over in a
wind soon right themselves, and the clean-
ing in the early stages can be done with
a single-horse cultivator; the corn itself
will smother the aftergrowth of weeds.
If the ground is hard and dirty, a light
plough with a double mouldboard through
the centre of the rows, 2in. or Sin. deep,
will suffice. Either of these requires only
one trip between the rows, whereas in
hilling the ploughman has to go twice, up
and down, to hill both sides of each row.
A cornstalk puts out one or more rings
of strong roots above the surface, which
grow down into the ground, forming a firm
support. The idea of some farmers is that
they are improving . matters by covering
these; actually they are weakening the
natural supports, and damaging or destroy-
ing numerous valuable feeding roots. I
have worked scrub farms where all the
planting was necessarily done with a hoe,
and the weeds between the rows chipped
once; and we got better crops than
neighboring fields produced where every
row was deeply hilled. We had a good
burn after brushing each season, which,
perhaps, had as good effect as ploughing.
The hilled rows of the ploughed fields
looked better than our.s, but, after all, it
was wasted labor. The land should be
well prepared before sowing, and by elimin-
ating the useless hilling the farmer has
more time for work that is really necessary.
Another waste is in pulling off the
suckers. This is done with the idea that
the suckers reduce the substance of the
main stalks and that the yield is increased
by their removal. They provide a bit of
fodder for stock; their value as feed, how-
ever, hardly compensates for the cost of
pulling them off. Desuckcring has been
tested by the N.S.W. Agricultural Depart-
ment, whose experience is that it decreases
the yield. This may be hard for con-
servatives to swallow, but can they
offset it with any practical tests of their
own? Though the underground sucker
starts as a parasitic growth, it early
develops independent roots —on the outer
side, and may produce one or more small
cobs. In other cases a vigorous growth of
the main stalks smothers and stops the
growth of the sucker, which remains a thin
weakling of no consequence. But tearing
it away, whether it is rooted or not, injures
the parent plant.
EARLY LAYING IS HARMFUL.
“Jack Point”: There is a great deal of
difference between early laying and early
maturity; it is the latter which must be
aimed at. Once a pullet commences to lay
her bodily development is checked, if it does
not. cease altogether. Evidence of this is the
fading from a deep , yellow to white of her
shanks and wattles, signifying the loss of
fat. Early maturity with early laying is
a desirable characteristic, but early laying
by itself is quite the reverse, and should be
bred out of a flock.
Feeding, of course, is a big factor, and the
feeding of a laying mash too early cannot
be too strongly condemned. Grain for bodily
maintenance, mash for eggs, greenstuff for
general health and exercise for everything
is a regimen which must yield good results.
Growing mashes, of course, are very good,
as they contain much less protein or egg-
producing ingredients than laying mashes,
but best of all for growing pullets is a
liberal grain ration and a moderate mash
one, free range and ample green feed. Birds
reared under such conditions will develop
into such sturdy pullets that, although they
come into lay a couple of months later
than their precocious sisters, can be depended
upon to keep going once they start. Another
thing worth mentioning is that pullets reared
on free range, although they may be a little
wild when brought into the intensive houses,
settle down surprisingly well to their new
environment.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Sydney market quotations include
“Victorian oaten hay, to £7 10s.” Is there a
shortage of hay in N.S.W.? Or has this hay
at this price been trussed or pressed, or in
any way specially treated? (2) Names and
addresses of one or two reliable firms in-
Sydney that handle this class of trade?- —
7756.
(1) The hay referred to is baled rack
hay, marketed in a dump bale, weighing
from 15 to IS bales to the ton and pressed
in a hydraulic press. The bale measures
2ft. by 2ft. by 2ft. 6in., with five battens on
each of two sides and three tie-wires, only
choice fine hay about 18in. to 2ft. being
used. There is no shortage of oaten hay in
N.S.W,, but it commands a lower price, the
difference in price being due to the different
methods employed in marketing and the
quality of hay put into the bales. (2) Alt
Phillips and Co., 121 Sussex-street; Ker-
ridge and McMahon, 171 Sussex-street.
Details concerning the life of William
James Farrer before lie commenced his wheat
experiments ? —7994.
Tie was the son of a Westmoreland land’
owner, and was born in England in 1845. He
studied for the medical profession, but aban-
doned this intention on account of ill-health,
and migrated to Australia when he was 25.
Here he worked at first as a tutor in the
family of the Campbells, of Duntroon, then
as a surveyor. In 1875 he entered the
N.S.W. Dept, of Lands as a contract sur-
veyor, and worked in the Dubbo, Cobar and
Coonrn districts until 1886. In that year
he resigned and settled at Lambrigg, near
Queanbeyan, whei’e he commenced to experi-
ment in hybridising wheats with the object
of finding rust-resisting or rust-proof
varieties.
What quantity of cement and sand would
be required to renovate a IQ,(lOO-gallon gal-
vaniscd-iron tank, and in what proportions
should the cement and sand be mixed? How
is the job done? —7844.
The tank must be thoroughly cleaned both
inside and out. Holes sin. in diameter and
spaced about 12in. apart are punched in the
walls. _ Wire-netting of £in. mesh and 22
gauge is then lapped around the tank both
inside and outside, the layer for the bottom
overlapping on the walls about 6in.; both
layers should be held in place by tie-wires,
laced through the holes. The bottom must be
plastered first, overlapping the walls about
6in., and allowed to harden so as to provide
a foothold when plastering the walls. Before
plastering, the tank is treated with a neat
cement wash, thrown on to the surface by
means of a brush. This is to provide a bond
between the tank and the plaster. Now mix
a mortar of 1 part cement to 2 parts fine
(Continued on page 26.)


J=JD
!W"Sz
MMMBIB
- 11
■■■■
x *V
C rXgls'
■
i - , X'XJfp
The boot for brisk
walkers!
It s double-soled with the tough-
est Australian leather. It’s
supple and doesn’t strain in any
position because the upper is
designed in a curve that lies
closely and easily over the instep
arch. Every muscle of the foot
is allowed full play. And the
ankle is cut to fit neatly and
avoid all bulging.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 457-
BLACK BOX CALF . , 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 266
Macmillan's
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
hooks are published in London. Prices outside
bookseller be fiXed hy the porting
Humorous Tales from
w ... „ ... Rudyard, Kipling
With Li illustrations by REGI-
NALD CLEAVER. Contains 2 1
of Kipling s stories interspersed
with 9 appropriate poems.
Cloth, I Os. 6d. net. Leather,
I ss. net.
East of Suez
By RUDYARD KIPLING. Crown
4to. 7s. 6d. net.
Six well-known poems, beautifully illus-
trated with 12 plates in color and others in
black and white, by Donald Maxwell
“the ideal illustrator of Mr. Kipling’s work
and he confirms his reputation with a dozen
fascinating and alluring color plates.”
—“Sunday Referee. ”
Judith Paris
By HUGH WALPOLE.
[Dominion Edition.
“Rich succession of scenes and events...
tense drama.” — “The Sphere.”
Rogue Herries
New Cheap Edition. ss. net.
Finch’s Fortune
By MAZO DE LA ROCHE.
[Empire Library.
“The book is a keen and shrewd study. It
has the serene assurance of a real work of
art.” —“Sunday Times.”
NEW BOOK BY J. M. KEYNES.
Essays in Persuasion
By J. M. KEYNES, C.B. 10s. 6d.
net.
“It is certainly a book to be valued very
highly as a mental autobiography of certainly
the most elastic and perhaps the most keen-
sighted mind applied to the difficult economic
affairs of the last decade.” —-“Financial News/’
Behind the Scenes of
International Finance
By PAUL EINZIG, author of
“The Fight for Financial Supre-
macy,” etc. 7s. 6d. net.
“Dr. Einzig apparently knows most things
which went on behind closed doors in Thread-
needle Street, in Paris, and in Basle, and by
construing French actions—seemingly un-
important at the time—to support his theory
to the best advantage, he presents a case which
makes a remarkably convincing story.”
— “The Morning Post.”
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL &C u<t
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
dd
RADIO B BATTERIES
o< TORCH REFILLS
7\(eu) zrs '
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
front Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tarifi
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Tlie Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
jj Bulletin D’uiffiinqs
ii 252 Georqe Street.
"■)! S Y D N B. ■
See announcement page 13.
/rr -
m
m
m
ď
ASKfor booklets and full
information from Tourist
Bureau.
New Zealand for your
Summer Holidays
gNOW-CAPPED giants stretched into the sky
by sportive Nature to lure and beckon the
city dweller to a new and fresher atmosphere.
Go and sport among their snowy peaks. .. .laze
around their rambling foothills... . enjoy life to
the fullest degree. We’ll arrange all bookings
for you at this end.
Reduced Fares apply from January 1, 1932.
Only 3£ days* sail from Sydney.
TOURIST BUREAU
V ( AMO ALL TRAVEL AGENCIES
GOVERNMENT
Martin Place & Pitt Street,
(Opp. G.P.0.), Sydney.
50 William Street, Melbourne.
And 79 Queen Street, Brisbane.
clean sand, with only enough wmter to form
a stiff but w’orkable mix. Apply in thick-
nesses of 4in. When it is almost hard, score
surface to* provide bond for next coat. Allow'
each coat to harden, then let it stand for two
days. Thoroughly moisten each coat before
application of succeeding coat. Leave seven
days before using. Quantities of materials
can’t be estimated, as you don’t state whether
tank is square or circular.
I have a contract supplying logs to a mill
at so much per super foot. What is the
formula for computing from a round log?
7961.
Measure the average girth of the log in
inches. Divide by 4. Multiply result by 12,
by length in feet, and by the quarter-girth
expressed in feet. Result is content in super
feet allowing for wmstage in sawing. Ex-
ample: Log 12ft. long, 136 in. in average
girth. Quarter of 136 is 34in., or 2 s*6ft.;
34 x 12 x 2 5-6 equals 1156 sup. ft.
(1) To whom should one apply for infor-
mation about land available in the Northern
Territory? (2) Could, an area■ be selected at
a nominal rental? (3) Has the Govern-
ment any good-class sheep which a new
settler could buy for part cash and balance
after shearing? (4) What is done to en-
courage settlement? —-7768.
(1) Secretary, Home Affairs Department,
Canberra, or Land Board of the Northern
Territory, Darw'in. (2) The Land Board
determines the conditions and rents of all
lands made available for leasing. (3) No.
(4) Under the Encouragement of Primary
Production Ordinance, and provided funds
for the purpose are made available by Par-
liament, advances not exceeding £6OO may be
made by the Primary Producers’ Board to a
producer for the purchase of livestock, etc.
It would be very hard to get an advance
these times.
My pumpkin-vine grew with great vigor
and was covered with flowers, but they were
all male. Finally a female flower came. I
fertilised, it with a brush and it grew fast
for a couple of days , then practically stopped.
There was a yellow ring where it rested on
the soil. I have raised it above the soil,
but it still does not grow as it ought to.
What should / do to it, and is there any way
of getting a bigger proportion of female
flowers? —7762.
Pumpkins seldom yield well from a single
vine or from a few' vines. No treatment w'ill
cause the plant to bear a larger number of
female flowers. Resort to artificial pollina-
tion is only sometimes helpful. Where space
limits the growing of a large number of
vines which are cross-fertilised freely by
natural insect agencies (bees, etc.), the bush
squash, w'hich self-fertilises w’ell, is to be
preferred to the pumpkin for culture by
the home gardener.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Sheepo”: When ewes are being shorn,
the ow’ner or manager should be continu-
ally walking up and down the. shearing
board. A ewe with an inferior fleece
should be raddled, so that after the sheep
are counted out all these rejects can be
put aside to be fattened or sold. On the
shearing board is the ideal place to do
the culling, and it is a job well w'orth
w’hile. Rams and withers can be treated
in the same manner, but it is to the breeders
that an owner must pay particular attention.
“Dimon”: Pieces of leather, a couple of
feet long and 15in. to ISin. wide, on the
end of a stick are recommended as the best
fire-beaters. But these should have a few
Jin. holes punched in them ; the holes lessen
the swirl of wind which is caused when the
beater is swung dowm, and which fans the
blaze alongside. On a long job it makes a
difference also in swinging it, especially
against the wind.
“Karaway”: Kerosene and tallow, un-
salted, make a good ointment for sores
on horses and for fly-wounds on sheep.
Boiled together they also furnish a capital
substitute for axle-grease. In some shearing-
sheds kerosene is used instead of tar for
cuts.
“Warrigal”: It is a mistake to put
cactoblastis eggs on the young leaves of the
prickly-pear. The grub always works in the
thick leaf of the old plant, out of sight;
the thin new leaves do not provide enough
cover for them. It is hoped that the cochi-
neal bugs will deal with the young growth,
but cactoblastis won’t.
“Disc Harrow”: In southern Victoria
this year apple crops are very uneven. Most
growers have had almost total losses, but
here and there are exceptionally fine yields.
It is noted that, the thrip has not done so
much damage in orchards where different
varieties are planted closely together for
cross-pollination purposes. In large blocks of
single varieties losses have been much
greater. It may be that close cross-pollina-
tion produces a sturdier and more resistant
fruit. Incidentally, the Statesman variety
has once more come through with a mini-
mum of damage.
“Yarri” : Rc biltong (B. 13/l/’32), dried
meats, fresh and salted, are common in the
central parts of the country, and include
strips from the hindquarters of kangaroos
and wallabies —dried over a smoky fire. Wild
turkeys, geese and ducks are smoke-cured
whole. Dried meats are usually carried —
or stored —as reserve rations, being light,
wholesome, and not easily damaged by
packing.
“Mulgo” : Twisting the tail is a common
practice when a cow or a calf won’t go where
it’s wanted, and many a dislocated tail is
the result. The animal has a “funny bone”
—the terminal button of the tail. If that is
pressed with the thumb-nail the same pur-
pose is achieved, and no harm done.
“Gumblegubbin”: If you want a good
handle for a maul, a stem of a garden
quince-tree is as useful as any. A stout
sucker, which is usually straight, is the
best.
“Sylvester”: A clean well-tinned iron is
half the battle when soldering. To tin on
iron, heat it until it smokes, clean with an
old file or fine rasp, dip in a dip made of
half-killed spirits and half water, spread
some raw spirits on a piece of clean gal-
vanised-iron, and work solder on to the
soldering-iron on this surface, A piece of
clean petrol-tin will do. but in that case the
spirits must be killed by adding zinc until
it ceases to boil.
“Mug Bushman”: Next time you’re
mouthing a colt try this: Run the reins
from the bit (which has. of course, been
bound with soft rag dipped in some oil)
through the rings on the roller, and attach
to the end of the reins two equal weights,
about a quarter of a pound each. Let these
hang, so that the colt can play with the bit
and move his head about freely. To mouth
him on either side, add a bit more weight
to either side, and take a little off the other
side. A colt mouthed this way wall never
break the skin on his mouth, and will answer
to the slightest touch on the rein.
“The Breaker” : Cold shoeing often brings
trouble to the prad. If a forge is not
available, make a fire and heat the
shoe in it. Something is sure to be handy
for holding the hot shoe, and with some
sort of tool a more decent job can be
done than by the bad practice of cutting
the hoof away too much.
“Pine Scrub”: From experience I would
advise the addition to the first-aid cabinet
of a saturated solution of picric acid.
Applied immediately to even extensive burns
it will eliminate pain in a very short time.
Carron oil can be used later, but get in
first with the picric acid.
“Valeria”: At this time of the year in dry
areas owners should be cautious about put-
ting stock on Sudan grass (B. 27/l/’32). The
general belief is that this grass is free from
tne toxic properties of sorghums or crops from
hybridised seed; in normal seasons this is
correct. But I have seen instances of heavy
mortality of cattle turned on to a stunted
crop of Sudan grass; an analysis of the
stomachs revealed the presence of prussic
acid, and a test of the seed from which the
crop had been grown showed it to be pure
and free from sorghum mixture. The only
conclusion is that the retarded growth of
the grass allowed the storing up of a deadly
dose of the poison. This is a matter to
which the N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture should give attention.
“Friar Tuck”: To protect our fowls in
hot weather we have erected light frame-
works of saplings, over which corn-bags,
opened out, are secured to form roofs and
walls. The benefit of these was demon-
strated during a recent heat wave, our losses
being only two birds. A man in the same
district (N.-C. line, Queensland) lost 600.
The birds congregated in our shelters, where
water was provided ; as the ground was too
hot outside for them to stand upon, food
was thrown in to them.
“Bufforp” : Don’t give the fowls too much
green corn at this time of the year, as it
makes the eggs very watery. Use it spar-
ingly or balance it with other greens or
lucerne chaff.
“Beady”: Some boundary-riders on finding
a burrow under a netting fence fill it in. A
better plan is to set a steel trap there and
keep it set. When the trap has not been
touched for a w'eek, remove and fill in the
burrow. Rabbits that once root under a net-
ting boundary will repeat the trick unless
destroyed.
“Kripple”: A great dpal of interest was
created amongst sheepmen by a short
account of a simple lamb-marking device I
contributed to The Bulletin a few months
ago. I enclose a couple of photographs
which show' clearly the position of the lambs
in the cradles. [Very interesting, but unsuit-
able for reproduction.—M.O.L.P.] Loading
and releasing are done in a second. A
film of a general lamb-marking in progress
has been taken by Mr. Norman Murray, of
Baconsfield, in the Longreach (Q.) dis-
trict, where such stations as Wellshot, Port-
land, Powella, Acacia and many others have
these lamb-marking methods. Using the
Shannon cradle (the inventor is J. V.
Shannon, of Rodney Dow'ns) one man can
mark 100 lambs an hour.
There is a growing demand for milch
goats in all the States, and the local supply
is inadequate. The manager of the Nyngan
(N.S.W.) experiment farm, w'hich breeds
and sells Saanen goats, reports that he sold
29 last year, “and from the number of cus-
tomers on the wmiting list all available
animals for the next few years will be
readily sold.” Some of the Agricultural
departments might combine to import more.
C. G. Northmore, a brother of the West-
ralian Chief Justice, reports that Palestine
oats planted on his farm in the Naremboen
district. 222 miles from Perth, gave an aver-
age yield of 60 bushels an acre; one plot
of 14 acres returned a 72-bushel average.
The seed was bought from South Aus.
Dealing with oats, the N.S.W. Govern-
ment director of plant-breeding records that
a very promising new' variety, viz., Lampton,
has been developed at Bathurst Farm, where,
during the three years it has been tested, it
has outyielded Algerian by an average of 10
bushels per acre for grain and 2cwt. per
acre for hay. It is also highly resistant to
stem rust and to smut.
In his report for last year the N.S.W.
Government agrostologist remarks that white
clover has proved to be the most satisfactory
pasture legume to encourage on the more
fertile soils of the coast; subterranean clover
on the poorer hill country. Perennial red
clover is becoming more widely used as a
combined grazing and hay crop on the South
Coast. In the better rainfall areas of the
tablelands sub. clover has been widely sown;
in the drier areas of the Central Tableland
and the slopes it has failed to produce satis-
factory growth, better results being obtained
from top-dressing the natural pastures with
lewt. super, per acre in the autumn of
every second year, which encourages the
grow'th of the hardier types of pasture
legume such as ball, burr and w'oolly burr
clovers.
D. Niehol, a successful Tallangatta (Vic.)
dairy-farmer dehorns all his calves, gener-
ally before they are a month old, with the
aid of a caustic-potash pencil. lie clips the
hair surrounding the horn buds, smears the
area surrounding the bud with vaseline,
dampens the horn bud, and applies the
caustic stick. A second application of the
caustic-potash is seldom required.
“Hitherto pork has sold here at luxury
prices, but with the advent of Australian ship-
ments and a corresponding reduction in cost,
the consumption of pork has greatly increased.
Provided light pigs are sent, I think wm can
look forward to a steadily increasing demand
for Australian shipments.” So says S.
Aus. Trade Commissioner McCann, reporting
to his State Meat Export Board on the state
of the British market.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart far the service of Bulletin
readers. ■ .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do. is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants,.
Clerk, Vic., married, returned soldier, exp. as
book-keeper, cashier and company secretary, wants
employment.—7B2o.
Bricklayer-plasterer (28), N.S.W., wants work
anywhere.—7946.
Studmaster (woolclasser) wants position, 30 years’
exp. British breeds and merino.—7944.
Girl (18) desires position as governess in Queens-
land, Presbyterian. All subjects but music. Junior
Uni. and commercial certificates.—79s9.
Gentlewoman, Vic., over 30, long exp. as gover-
ness, wants position. Refs. —-7978.
Young man, inventor, Q’land, wishes to enter
partnership with station owner, or other responsible
person, to test and patent inventions. —7910.
Brisbane firm of public accountants desires to
represent southern firms, institutes, etc. —7908.
To buy American lithographs by Nathaniel Currier,
or Currier and Ives, published New York, 1835
onwards.—79ls.
To buy second-hand copies of “Current History”
magazine.—79o7.
To buy “Theory of Heat Engines,” by Inchley;
and “Theory of Machines,” by McKay.—7992.
Words of verse beginning “Dimitri runna da oyster
shop, and inaka da joint to pay” ; also parody on
“The Sentimental Bloke,” containing the line “Me
name is Mud; yes, jist plain M-U-D.” —7899.
Words of verse containing the line “His wits were
tangled in the wine” ; also poem “Tall Man’s Tale.”
—7922.
Words of poems “The Vampire” and “Flying
Kate.” —7921.
Information Sought.
(1) What age must one be to obtain a
license for an automatic pistol in Q’land?
(2) Procedure? —7604.
(1) Over 18. (2) Forms of application
are obtainable at any police station.
Suitable plant for a hedge about Bft. high
in a Sydney suburb. Appearance not as
important as effective screening. —7806.
Privet, camphor laurel or teeoiuas
(shrubby) will grow rapidly into a hedge, or
a wire frame on which are trained dolichos,
hedera (ivy), bignonias, lonicera (honey-
suckle) or manettia —all of which are ever-
green—will rapidly make an impenetrable
screen.
(1) What are the essentials of the “liquid
smoke” process of curing meat and fish? (2)
What are the objections to this process
which prevent its general adoption? (3)
Where can £ obtain the materials? —7360.
(1) Sufficient brine should be made to
cover the quantity of fish to be preserved,
and the salinity of the brine should be suffi-
ciently dense to float a potato or a new-laid
egg. Mix smoke essence with brine, about
one pint to three gallons, and place the fish
to be preserved in the mixture • and leave
there from two to six hours, time depend-
ing on size of fish and how long it is re-
quired to be kept. When the fish is taken
out of the mixture it should be dipped in
fresh water to remove surface salt, and then
allowed. to drain for an hour. It should
then be hung in a smoke-house for half an
hour and dried off in a thick warm smoke
produced from sawdust. For dry salting,
sprinkle coarse salt on the fish, stack them
in a heap, and leave for three to six hours,
time depending upon size of fish. When con-
sidered sufficiently cured dip the fish in
fresh water to remove surface salt, and allow
to drain till flesh becomes sticky, then paint
smoke essence on with a brush. ITang up in
smoke-house and dry off in half an hour in
a thick warm smoke. (2) The flavor pro-
duced is inferior to that obtained bv the
usual method of smoking. (3) Elliott Bros.,
20 O’Conncll-street, Sydney.
I wish to lay down a green concrete path.
What material should I use to obtain the
color ? Quantity of coloring material and
how mixed with the concrete? —7452.
Vetramine green (51b. to 61b. per bag of
cement, 941 b.) for a light shade; lime green
(71b. to 91b. per bag of cement) for a
medium shade; chromium oxide (81b. io
101 b. per bag of cement) for a dark shade.
The color should be mixed with the cement
dry before any sand or water is added. Take
one bag of cement, spread on a concrete-
mixing board, add the color and well mix by
hand until uniform, then pass through a fine
sieve (100 mesh if possible) several times.
Too dry a mix will yield a dull lifeless tone,
and too wet a mix will yield irregularly-
colored surfaces, due mainly to efflorescence.
A steel floating trowel gives a darker color
than the wooden float. A concrete cured in
sunlight will give a lighter color than one
cured in the shade. Trowelling on partly
hardened surfaces produces blotches.
Is it true that an apparatus has been per-
fected in America whereby bees can be
counted by radio? —7939.
Yes. A microphone is placed in the
entrance of the hive, and as the bees crawl
home their feet scrape over the microphone,
generating a current which is amplified, caus-
ing the operation of a counting device. Thus
it is possible to take a census of the popula-
tion of a hive.
On January 15, 1932, the sun, according
to the almanacs, rose at 4.58 a.m. and set
at 7.9 p.m. What was the exact position of
the sun at sea-level horizon at both times?
Would the centre of the sun’s disc be seen
on the horizon or would its upper limb be
just visible? —J 853.
The upper limb in each case just touching
the horizon.
(1) Our public hospital (N.8.W.) main-
tains a maternity ward, but has no resi-
dent medical officer. Must the matron hold
both general and obstetric certificates? (2)
May suppliers of groceries, meat, bread, etc.,
to the institution be members of the .hospital
board? —7697. . -
(1) The matter is at present under refer-
ence to the Crown Law authorities for advice.
(2) Under the N.S.W. Public Hospitals Act
1929, a supplier of goods to a hospital to tins
value of more than £2O in any one year is dis-
qualified from holding office as a director. Ihe
Hospitals Commission, however, is empowered
to remove the disqualification in any case in
which it is satisfied it is in the interests ot
the hospital concerned to do so.
(1) What are the grounds for divorce in
M.L. and the six States of Australiat (2)
What length of time constitutes desei tion,
and are the periods uniformf (3) What
constitutes “cruelty,” apart from actual
physical violence? —7821.
(1) and (2) In M.L., adultery, wilful
desertion without just cause for three years
or more, habitual drunkenness, habitually
leaving wife without means of support or
habitually cruel to her, conviction for
attempted murder of wife or child, being
of unsound mind continuously for seven
years prior to petitioii and unlikely to
recover, being parties to an agreement for
separation in full force for not less than
three years or parties to a decree of judicial
separation in full force for not less than
three years; that the husband since mar-
riage has been guilty of certain sexual
crimes. This category is the most compre-
hensive of the categories in Australasia.
In the Australian States all include adultery
and wilful desertion, desertion accompanied
by cruelty, conviction for serious crime.
There is some diversity as to other causes.
(3) Legal cruelty consists of any conduct
of such a nature as to cause injury or
danger to life, limb or health, mental or
physical, or a reasonable apprehension
thereof.
Hoio to grow anemones aiKl ranunculus
from bulbs? —7990.
Bulbs can be bought ready for planting
in February. March or April. Start them
in shallow boxes filled with light sandy,
fibrous soil and placed in a cool, shady posi-
tion. They should be kept slightly moist.
When the bulbs start into growth, they can
be planted out in the open borders, choosing
a cloudy, moist day if possible, or, if the
weather is unfavorable, water the bed well
and shade with a few bushes till the plants
are established. They will die down in
November or December, when they can be
dug up and kept in a dry cool .store till the
next planting season. In planting, set the
bulbs six inches apart and two inches below
the surface.
Has England experienced earthquakes
during recent years? —79B9.
In the early morning of June 7, 1931, an
earthquake of some severity was experienced,
but no serious damage was done. There
were ’quakes in the neighborhood of Col-
chester in 1884, 1896 and 1926.
Where was Sevres porcelain made, and
liow is it distinguished?—WHS.
In 1753 works under royal patronage were
set up at Vincennes, and three years later
removed to Sfevrcs. The best productions
were sent out during the nine years which
followed the purchase of the factory by
Louis XV. in 1760. At the end of this period
the discovery of kaolin, near Limoges, led
to a discontinuance of the manufacture of
pate tend re in favor of the more highly-
valued pate dure. Sbvres porcelain, made for
use, is usually painted with flowers or figure
subjects on a plain white ground. The
purely decorative pieces have panels with
pictures on a white ground, surrounded by
frames of gold scroll work ; the main body
of the piece is covered with one deep or
brilliant color.
My white tom-cat is suffering from a sort
of mange. Hairs fall from various patches
of his coat, leaving a red, raw-looking sore.
Causes and cure? —7934.
Isolate the cat. It is suffering from ring-
worm, which is contagious. Wash the
parts affected with a solution of washing
soda and warm water (a teaspoonful to one
pint), then dry and apply storaxol ointment.
Continue treatment for three successive days.
The explorer Vancouver, in recording his
experiences in King George's Sound ( W.A . )
in 1791, states in his journal that “ a very
peculiar duck was shot, which was of a dark-
ish-grey plumage, with a bag like that of a
lizard hanging under its throat , which smelt
so intolerably of musk that it scented the
whole ship.” To what species of duck was
he referring, and what is known about it by
modern ornithologists? —7993.
It was the musk duck ( Biziura lobata).
The “bag” mentioned by Vancouver is a
membranous flap projecting from the chin,
which in old males attains a large size.
Its use has not been ascertained. The bird
is plentiful on swamps, rivers and inlets of
tin l sea throughout Australia and Tasmania.
When pursued it takes refuge in diving—
very few persons have ever seen one flying.
It can, however, fly strongly, but rarely does
so except at night, when travelling from one
swamp to another.
How was the cast-iron road recently laid
in England constructed, and teas it a suc-
cess? —7991.
It was laid on a stretch of about 100
yards of one of the busiest thoroughfares
in London. Triangular plates of iron were
laid on bitumen which had been sprinkled on
a concrete foundation. Frank Hough, the
inventor, claims for the new surface less
noise and vibration in all forms of traffic,
an absence of skidding, and rapidity of reno-
vation. It is, he says. “10s.-a yard cheaper in
England than the cheapest foreign granite,
and it will last 50 years, after which 45 p.e.
of the original value of the iron can be
recovered.”
(1) Method of mixing copperas to color
cement ivork a cream shade?
of color per 50 square yards?— i Joo.
Copperas is utterly unsuitable, as it will
most certainly result in failure of the con-
erete to harden. Yellow ochre or yellow
oxide of iron should be mixed with the
cement in the proportions of not more than
21b. of color to each paper-bag ot cement.
The concrete should then be made in the
usual way, using light-colored sand and
stone.
(1) Are any softwoods grown in Aus-
tralia? (2) Could Australian hardwoods be
grown successfully in the same surroundings
as the sofUcoods in Russia and Canada? (<>)
Would the climate make any difference to
softwoods grown in Australia, or hardwoods
grown in Russia or Canada, and why. —7 i tB.
(1) Natural softwoods in Australia are
the hoop, bunya, kauri, Huon, celery top and
King william pines and cypress. In addi-
tion pines from other countries are being
grown in all the States. (2) No. (3) Oui
climate generally produces a fast-grown
wide-ringed timber, which is softer and moic
woolly in texture than slow-grown softwood.
(1) Name of the German connected with
early experiments with telephony? (2) Was
he the inventor of this instrument. (o)
Books dealing with this subject? —' 7BB7.
(1) The first practical attempts at tern-
phony were made by Philip Reis, of 1 ned-
riclisdorf, in 1863. He did not properly over-
come the difficulty of reproducing the three
essentials in the sounds transmitted, namely
pitch, amplitude and quality, and his early
telephone underwent many modifications
before it could be utilised for practical pur-
poses. (2; The invention of the telephone
is credited to Hr. Graham Bell, who obiaiiied
a patent in the United States in March, 3 876.
and exhibited the same year at the Centennial
Exhibition, Philadelphia. (3) History of
the Radio Telegraph and Telephone, by G.
G. Blake; “Story of the Telephone, by w •
D. Owen; “Wireless World” for July
1920.
(1) Has work commenced yet on the
Barron Falls (Q.) hydro-electric scheme?
(2) How much is the project to cost.'. (6)
How long is it expected to take? (4) What
area will the scheme provide with power
and light? —774s.
(1) No, but tenders for the various con-
tracts have been called. (2) £lOO,OOO. _ (3)
About two years. (4) One transmission
line of the scheme will extend from the
Barron Falls to Kuranda, a distance of
about two miles, and will supply that towns-
ship. Another transmission line will tra-
verse the Smithfield-road through the farm-
ing areas of Kedlyucli, Freshwater and
Stratford to Cairns, and thence to the town-
ships of Woree and Edmonton, and on to
Gordon vale, a distance of about 30 miles,
and supply the farming areas en route. The
present steam electrical plant in Cairns will
be absorbed by the Barron Falls scheme.
Best way to pack a canvas oil-painting
for posting to England? —79B7.
If the painting is framed, glazed strips
of paper must be pasted across the glass to
prevent it cracking with vibration. News-
paper should be rolled into wads and put
round and across the corners of the frames,
and the whole thing then packed into a
crate. If the canvas is stretched but not
framed and glazed, it should be suspended
in a frame constructed inside the crate so
that no surfaces touch the crate. An un-
stretched canvas should be rolled with the
painted side out. _ Grace Bros., Sydney,
undertake such packing.
(1) What processes are most commonly
used in the reproduction of posters? (2)
Are there limitations to these processes or
can any technique or effect be reproduced?
(3) Cheapest process giving good results?
(4) What method was used in reproducing
the Australian National Travel posters
designed by Northfield and Trompf? —7oo7.
(i) (a) Lino, cuts, produced by glueing
linoleum on to type-high wood; then, after
the drawing has been done, routing out
everything but the lines that arc to print.
This style of poster is often used for cheap
theatrical day bills, (b) Lithography. An
aluminium plate is prepared with a fine-
grained surface, which has sufficient rough-
ness to pick up the greasy litlib. chalk that
artists use. If a bold outline drawing is all
that is required, the artist makes a sketch on
a piece of paper; this is rubbed down on the
plate, and the image—which is then in
reverse —is drawn up. Should a flat-tone be
required, the artist rubs the litho. crayon
across the portion until the required density
of tone is obtained. Should a second color be
required, then a transfer of the drawing is
made upon a fresh plate and only the por-
tions required in color are drawn. Often
nine or ten colors are used. (c) If a
photograph of a face or a product of some
kind is required, photo-lithography is used.
A negative of the photograph is made
through a screen, and this is transferred to
an aluminium plate. (2) and (3) Almost
any technique can be reproduced by photo-
lithography, which is cheap and efficient.
(4) Probably photo-lithography.
(1) What opportunities exist for a com-
mercial artist with outstanding advertising
ability? Is it icorth while for an artist to
study the literary side of advertising. (2)
Any art scholarships available? I am 27.
—7504.
(1) Yes. There are many opportunities
for the commercial artist with advertising
ability, but to get to the top figure draughts-
manship should be most studied. (2) None
for advertising or advertising art,. but to
the figure draughtsman the Society of
Artists’ scholarships are available until he
reaches the age of 30. A scholarship
enables the student to study in Europe for
three years.
(1) When and where were postage stamps
first used? (2) Who invented them? (3)
What were their values? (4) When were
they perforated? —79s2.
(31 On May 6, 1840, in Great Britain.
In 1838 stamped covers were introduced in
Sydney and sold at Is. 3d. a dozen. Letters
enclosed in them were delivered free in
Sydney. (21 A pamphlet by Rowland Hill
suggested this method of pre-payment
postage. (31 Id. and 2d. (41 In 1848 the
penny (Great Britain) was rouletted by H.
Archer, and in 1850 the penny was perforated
bv him. Trial perforations were made by
the British Government in 1853. Stamps
were not perforated in N.S.W. until 1860.
Brief Answers.
T.W.: If you can produce regularly, a
market could probably be found overseas for the
impure concentrates. There is none locally. Frank
Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney, may be able
to advise you... .H.T.J.: The magazine “Close Up”
cannot be purchased locally. Order direct from
publisher, 26 Litchfield-street, London, W.C.2. Sub-
scription is 14s. p.a E. 8.: Write the Australian
Cement Manufacturers’ Assoc., 14 Spring-street,
Sydney... .J.E.H.: The Nymagee (N.S.W.) district
is not promising. Arid conditions, together with
extensive areas of deep loaiu, make prospecting diffi-
cult L.J.W.: Try “World’s News,” 60 Elizabetli-
street, Sydney... .T.M.M.: Chamber of Manufactures
in each capital city; also E. T. Sheaf, Australian
Trade Commissioner at Singapore... .R.L.: (1) Pros-
pects of a qualified accountant obtaining employment
in the Islands are not at all bright. It would be advis-
able, before travelling, to be assured of a position. (2)
Passports are not required for Papua, but a permit
is necessary. Application should be made to the
nearest Customs House.. . .W. 8.5.: Write Officer-in-
Charge, Correspondence Courses, Sydney Technical
College, Harris-street, Sydney. .. .R.C.S.: Try Angus
and Robertson F.H.: “The Textile Educator,”
edited by L. J. Mills, £5 55., Angus and Robertson.
. ...L.S.: Net charge on general revenues in N.S.W.
during 1930-31 for the Aus. Museum was £19,509
165.; Nat. Art Gallery, £5134 6s. Id.; Public
Library, £21,585 15s. 6d. ; Conservatorium of
Music, £5056 16s. Id A.C.M.K.: (1) and (2)
The proposed new rates were: Man, 15s. 3d. ;
woman, 13s. 6d.; adult dependant, Bs. ; child depend-
ant, 2s. ; young man, 12s. 6d. ; young woman, 10s.
9d. ; boy of 17, Bs. 9d.; boy of 16, ss. 6d. ;
girl 17, 6s. 9d. ; girl 16, 4s. 6d. (3) A third is
contributed by employer, employee and the Govern-
ment. Employees pay from 4jd. to lOd. per week.
. ...R.G.F.: The rent as it stood on June 30, 1930,
is the one from which the deduction should be made ;
the landlord is entitled to take into account the
interim deduction of Is. per week... .H. 8.5.: By
communicating with the police at both centres. .. .
V. : Ornamental trees aiid shrubs, Is. 6d. to
2s. 6d. each. Raspberry canes, ss. per doz., 355.
per 100, with reduction for larger quantities of
either; packing and carriage extra. Write Arthur
Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney. .. .O.B.: (1)
At present prices it wouldn’t pay. (2) Country is
obtained by local application to owners of property.
(3) It would be possible to obtain sufficient traps
with £8 to make a start W.W.: Report to Sec.
for Labor, Melbourne, enclosing copy of the indentures.
B.C.: “What Bird Is That?” by Neville W. Cay-
ley (12s. 6d.) and North’s “Nests and Eggs of Austra-
lian Birds” ( £3 10s.) H.G.: The Commissioner of
Taxation has power to either fine a taxpayer and
impose interest for non-payment of tax, or not,
according to the circumstances of the case. .. .
B.O.B.: Write Secretary, Naval Board, Defence Dept.,
Melbourne (Vic.) .. . . J.D.: You should approach your
neighbor with a view to having the p.n. renewed
when it becomes due, otherwise you will have to
meet it. Assuming the p.n. to have been given prior
to Oct. 2, 1931, you are entitled to a reduction of
4s. 6d. in every pound of interest. Should the note
be renewed see that the old one is destroyed....
F.D.8.: If the reference is given by the bank
manager in his official capacity then it would be
correct to give it on the bank's headed paper, but
not so if given as a private person. .. .C.D.M.: The
book has no value H.0.F.: You are not affected
by the Moratorium Act, but under the Agricultural
Lessees’ Relief Act, if the owner of the land is
your lessor, you may apply to the local land board
for a reduction of the rent payable under the lease.
. ...D.S.R.: Walther and Stevenson, 395 George-
street, Sydney, 10s. 6d. per lb. Skins vary in
weight from 41b. to 141 b T.L.C.: Get in touch
with the Forestry Commission, Melbourne....
E.L.E.: (1) The estimate of £3 was based on the
assumption that a solicitor would be employed. (2)
There is no schedule of fees in such a matter. (3)
You should have the deed stamped at the Stamps
Office. A law stationer may be able to supply a
form. (4) Yes. (5) The Registrar-General of the
State where the name was originally recorded....
W. : Submit it to Angus and Robertson ... . J.H.:
(1) The cables that supported the Sydney Harbor
Bridge during construction are the property df
Dorman, Long and Co., and cost over £lOO,OOO.
(2) 256 cables were used... .R.P.: 1.C.5., 140
Elizabeth-street; Stott’s Technical Correspondence
Colleges, 70 Pitt-street —both Sydney... .W.H.F.:
Mai ley: 243 overs, 27 maidens, 946 runs, 36 wickets,
average 26.27, in Australia; 125 overs, 18 maidens,
398 runs, 12 wickets, average 33.16, in England.
Grimmett: 31 overs, 5 maidens, 82 runs, 11
wickets, average 11.45, in Australia; 204 qvers,
59 maidens, 414 runs, 13 wickets, average 51.84
in Eng P.W.: If no agreement as to pay-
ment of interest was made, you should have re-
ceived notice that if the overdue account was not
paid by a date named interest would be charged
thereafter, but not as from the date of indebtedness.
Ten per cent, is excessive. .. .8.F.: (1) The Act
continues in force until April 30, 1933, and in cer-
tain cases of extension by the Court until the expira-
tion of such extension. (2) You could apply to the
Court for leave to proceed for the recovery of sum
secured by the mortgage, or for foreclosure, but would
have to satisfy it that he was able to redeem the pro.
perty R.A.: Take four handfuls of bran, 1 hand-
ful of oatmeal, and 2 tablespoonfuls black treacle. Mix
well together, put in the oven, and bake till brown.
Then roll it with a pastry roller till it is all well
ground and light in texture. Store in dry tins in
a dry place, and make like coffee... .W.L.: You
could peruse the will for a fee of 2s. Apply at
Probate Office, Supreme Court Buildings, Sydney....
E.E.M.: Where the deceased has died intestate the
course is to apply for letters of administration.
Call at the Probate Office, Supreme Court, Sydney,
and you will be supplied with forms and instructed
what to do. Do not delay E.Z.: The pressure
per square inch at pump with storage tank 100 ft.
above pump is 43.3 pounds; if tank is lowered to
70ft. the pressure will be 30.31 pounds. .. .M.M.:
The home remedy is lemon juice with glycerine and
rosewater (freshly prepared). Apply twice daily
after bathing affected area with tepid oatmeal-
water. If it is persistent, the following bleaching
cream may be employed at night: White precipitate
powder, 10 grains; subnitrate of bismuth, 15
grains; oxide of zinc, 10 grains; cold cream of
roses, to loz. Calamine lotion, is suitable for day
use as a protection... .D.K.R.: Write to Agriculture
Dept., Brisbane, for leaflet “The Buffalo F1y”....
T.E.S.: We do not know of any C.L.: A matter
of individual taste J.H.W.: Steamer Sydney, on
December 26, 1906 F.P.: It is probable that
seeds forwarded to Capetown would be subjected
to a test as to freedom from disease and as to
purity M.C.: “Short-story Writing for Profit”
(3s. 6d.) and “The Magazine Story” (3s. 6d.), by
Michael Joseph; “Short-storv Writing,” by Sydney
A. Moseley (7s. 6d.), and “How to Write and Sell
Short Stories,” by R. F. Foster (35.)... .A.A.:
Dalgety and Co., Sydney, are agents for the
Triumph vertical petrol engine... .E.M.T.: We know
of no annual competitions other than those men-
tioned (Many others mailed.)


Blue North
BY
Mrs Drecke-Brockman.
Synopsis : Whilst driving to Fre-
mantle from Perth in 1876 '‘Hand-
some Jack" Fordyce, a Westralian
squatter, tells John Collins, an attrac-
tive acquaintance, of the extravagance
of his discontented wife, Euphemia.
Advised l>y Collins to leave her, For-
dyce sells his place, settles an allow-
ance on her and buys the schooner Sea
Sprite. Fordyce's departure for the
Blue North in search of pearls and
freedom is delayed by six Irish poli-
tical convicts escaping through
Collins’s agency in the American
whaler Catalpa. Clearing Fremantle,
the Sprite makes good passage; at
Geraldton Fordyce ships stores for
Edgar, his cousin pioneering the Gas-
coyne River district. Through him
John hopes to get native divers.
Anchoring in the Gascoyne, Fordyce
surprises Edgar and his men at dinner.
CHAPTER IV.
In which John Fordyce makes the
acquaintance of Nguri; and the Sea
Sprite rounds the North-west Cape
into a different world.
IN January the Gascoyne had swept far
out to sea in a torrent which showed red
for miles. Now only a few deep pools
remained in a dry sandy bed. A mile
behind Edgar’s camp the Worrara tribe
had sat down in force on the clean flood
sands. Flocks of pink and grey galahs
haunted the branches of tall, sheltering
trees, or rose circling and screeching at
the slightest alarm; finches and honey-
suckers flitted among creepers garlanding
smooth white trunks; the sweet breath of
wild jasmine scented the air. Small wonder
the wide dry river-bed had ever been a
favorite winter residence for the Worrara
people; they knew when the pools dried
they could always find fresh water by
merely scratching in the sand of the water-
course. For months after the arrival of
the white men and the terrifying beasts
upon which they rode the natives had given
the place a wide berth. But eventually
reports from tribes to the south regarding
advantages sometimes accruing in the way
of food led them to hazard a closer
acquaintance.
Edgar Fordyce had with him two “boys”
he had known from childhood; they had
grown up with him on his father’s place
in the sou’-west. Their dialect differed
considerably from that of the Worrara
people, but at least they were able to make
it clear that neither they nor their masters
were anything but well-intentioned. As
ever, Edgar was soon on good terms with
the binghis. He possessed something denied
to the majority of whites; he appeared to
understand and appreciate their peculiar,
yet extremely vital, sense of humor, but at
the same time he could be hard to the
point of brutality.
“Have you got any natives I can have?”
John asked him as they strolled away,
leaving the other men to their letters.
“I mean to try my luck at pearling.”
“What have you done with the place?”
“Sold out.”
Up shot Edgar’s eyebrows. “The old
place? You amaze me! What did the
family say?”
“I did not wait to hear.”
“Then where is Euphemia?”
For a moment John hesitated. Should he
pass the matter lightly aside? But he
remembered that as likely as not a copy
of the fatal paper lay in the huge bundle
of mail still on the schooner.
“Murder will out,” he answered lightly.
“We have parted. At least I have de-
parted. Her various extravagances proved
more than I could endure.”
To his considerable amazement he felt
Edgar’s hand on his shoulder. “Good lad!
I never did like the lady. She isn’t the
sort of woman a man wants in this country.
I was sorry when you married her—too
cloying altogether.”
John was tired of the subject. He felt
not the slightest interest in the past. It
bored him, already presenting, as he walked
along the narrow pad beneath the trees and
inhaled the intoxicating air, the slightly
blurred outline of a dream. This was real
—this hot light air, this sense of space, this
sunburnt, bearded man at his side.
“What about natives?” he repeated.
“Plenty of ’em. But I don’t know how
they will take to any suggestion of diving.”
“I would like them to come willingly,
Edgar. We could raise some further up, I
don’t doubt. Wilson is all for that, as he
seems to think these would be too raw.
But I have heard they are not keen on be-
ing taken pearling up at Nickol Bay. If
I can find any ready to come, I personally
would prefer to risk inexperience than to
go after them and bring ’em in on the
chain. What do you think?”
Edgar shook his head doubtfully. “I’ll
do my best for you,” he said; “but we’ve
not been here long enough to tame ’em,
and we don’t trust any with shepherding
yet. Might have to drag your team off,
after all. Come on over to their camp.
I’ll get my revolver, and one of the boys
to interpret.”
The Worrara people were in melloHv
mood. Yesterday some of their young men
had, by the greatest good fortune, speared
a dugong which had browsed in too close
to the beach. All night they had feasted;
and all day, gorged to repletion, they lay
about in the sand round the ashes of their
little fires, and slept and talked and slept
again.
Gins’ shrill voices warned the men of
strangers approaching. Naked piccaninnies
abandoned their stone-throwing and capers
to scurry like little black ants to their
naked mothers. The men sat up on their
haunches; a few made a movement to-
wards their spears. A horde of dogs
vanished up the river bank into the scrub.
“A fine-looking crowd of bucks,” remarked
John; “I’d like to get about fifteen.”
“Well, they seem to be in a happy frame
of mind to-day. They made enough noise
last night over their cobber-cobbering.
Jacob here tells me they got a dugong—
which accounts for it. See that big chap
over there with the whiskers? That’s
Nguri, which being interpreted means the
whiskery one. He has got some savvy and
already picked up a little pidgin. Nguri!”
The blackfellow rose. John noted how
lightly he stepped, the magnificent propor-
tions of his body. The raised weals of
tribal marks scarred his broad chest, a
greasy belt of human hair was his sole
garment. His brown velvety eyes turned
restlessly from side to side. His fingers
curled slightly, itching for the feel of a
weapon. John liked the look of that power-
ful chest; it promised good lung power for
deep diving.
“Nguri,” explained Edgar. “This one
murka-murka [brother] belonga me. Good
feller. Suppose you go walk-about alonga
him? Nguri and other feller Worrara. He
give you big feller tucker—all fill’m up!”
Nguri nodded his head in appreciation of
such estimable intentions, but it took the
cousins a long hour, aided by Jacob’s
avowals of the splendid adventure offer-
ing, to prevail upon the mystified natives
and persuade a score of the young men to
go off they knew not where with John
Fordyce.
“What about some gins, Johnnie? That
looks a presentable young lubra over there.
They tell me they make more willing
divers,” grinned Edgar.
John thought of Euphemia’s letter and
chuckled. The Fordyce men were notori-
ously fastidious. It had become a kind, of
family tradition that none ever favored
black, though a Fordyce was usually to be
found where any exploring was afoot. John
looked at the ochre-smeared body and
matted hair of the young girl. The line
of her body, he thought, was lissome
enough, her breasts firm and unmarred by
motherhood; but he held his nose and
grimaced at his cousin.
“Art thou fallen from grace, Edgar?” he
inquired.
“That I am not!” averred Edgar. “I
stick harder than ever to my old rules—
no interfering with the natives. Taking
their women is the quickest and shortest
road to a spear in the night. All my men
know it, and if they can’t do without a
gin, well, they can clear out and find an-
other leader.”
“Hear, hear! And so say all of us. I’m
with you—the bucks will dive well enough
for me. I’m glad that Nguri is coming—
I like him. He’s a man.”
“I wouldn’t be too sure of any of them,
if I were you. They don’t understand in
the least what they have promised to do.
Perhaps the whole lot will have vanished
by morning.”
John slept ashore at his cousin’s camp.
Some of the men had been sent with a dray
to the river mouth. He knew Wilson would
look after the tedious business of bringing
off the stores in dinghies, a task which he
would loathe. He slept lightly as ever,
awakening every now and again to listen
to the faint echo of a chant blown to him
on the chill night wind. The watchman
on the Sprite, a mile off shore, wondered
what the red glow on the coast portended,
fearful lest a bush-fire was closing round
the camp. But the corroboree songs rose
in sweet lullaby for John. He knew such
huge fires, such endless dancing and singing
assured to him his divers. The Worrara
people were bidding their courageous young
men farewell and feasting the departing
heroes.
Down to the beach went the whole tribe
next morning. The giggling and chattering
and wailing surpassed anything either of
the Fordyces had ever heard. John felt as
though he were a murderer—and asked
himself if indeed he were much better
knowing the risks the men would most
certainly have to take. He and Edgar sat
on a tuft of grass and watched the horde
of blacks clustering round Nguri and his
mates. At length he sprang to his feet.
“Dammit,” he cried, “I’ve had enough of
this play-acting! Good-bye, Edgar, old
fellow'. A thousand thanks and a good
lambing. Come on, you fellers, into the
boats!”
All three dinghies were waiting. The men
clambered in, spears confiscated at the last
moment and returned to their desolated
tribesmen, though John allowed them to
keep kylies he noticed stuck into each
wudbin of human hair. As the boats pushed
off, Fordyce himself at the tiller of the last,
a tiny naked child ran out into the water.
“Illukngaianga [come back] !” he wailed,
till his terrified mother rushed after him
and dragged him, wailing, to the shore.
“landa [baby] belonga this feller,” said
Nguri, proudly pointing to his own chest.
John had been prepared for he knew not
what of sulkiness and dismay. To his
surprise, no sooner had the group on shore
passed out of sight and earshot, as the
dinghies dropped down the river, than the
natives began to call from boat to boat,
delighted with the novelty of their situa-
tion. Cries of admiration greeted the Sprite
dancing at the anchorage. Like children,
the big naked men laughed and exclaimed,
white teeth flashing in friendly open coun-
tenance. Up the little ladder they swarmed
away to their quarters on the forward deck,
any wrench of parting quite forgetten in
their excitement. As the sails filled and
the schooner slipped through ruffling waves,
her course set for the Nor’-west Cape,
they squatted contentedly in their new
home, yabbering with delight as each fam-
iliar landmark showed up along the coast.
John Fordyce pored over his charts, a
happy man. At last he could savor that
perfect freedom for which he yearned. His
pearling boys were safely shipped, he had
but to land his cargo at Cossack before
he steered away wheresoever he might
desire. He vowed he would seek pearls
where no man had been before. The very
names round the Cape held the glamor
of romance. Who could feel prosaic on
a vessel bounding across a deep blue sea
to Mermaid Straits and Flying Foam
Passage? Certainly not John Fordyce!
A hundred years earlier the Dutchman
Vlaming, dismayed and bitterly disap-
pointed in the western coast of the un-
known continent, had eased his feelings by
firing a volley at the spray-washed cliffs of
the Nor’-west Cape. A signal of farewell,
quoth he to the miserable southern land.
John Fordyce knew nothing of that—he
could have shouted a welcome as the stern
rocks loomed up. Beyond the Cape lay
the tropics of his dreams!
He hauled the Sea Sprite on the wind;
with a southerly blowing on her beam she
headed due east round the headland into
the Gulf beyond. That night they anchored
in the lee of an islet, an atoll of grey-
green spinifex and silver sand. John was
content to pause now, to let his men sleep
snugly below, whilst the eye of-a lantern
swinging in the shrouds kept watch, a lone
glimmer on the empty northern sea.
At daybreak they weighed anchor, and,
close hauled, the Sprite soon left atolls and
reefs far astern. She might have been on
the open sea, so vast is Exmouth Gulf.
And what a sea! Years after John remem-
bered every detail of those golden days.
Each man in the crew sensed a difference
in the atmosphere, a languor stealing vital-
ity with a sweet caress.
John went forward to talk to the natives
and found he could understand Nguri and
one or two of the others almost as well
as Edgar could. All afternoon he lay in
the shade of the mainsail with a novel
which Euphemia, he smiled to remember,
had presented to him as a birthday gift.
He soon laid the book aside to yarn to
the cook. No tale could hold him long
upon the sunflecked decks of his schooner.
Babbet, on the other hand, proved an ever-
springing fount of amusement.
“We seem to ’ave a good team, sir,”
said that worthy now. “That Nguri is a
caveman. But yer might as well cristen
one of ’em Jacko and be done with it.
Can’t say I like these ’ere new-fangled
ideas about bein’ ris up from apes, but
belike there is more in ’em than I thought!
Leastways one nigger is the dead spit o’ a
monkey”
His master’s laugh was drowned by sud-
den commotion among the natives. They
rushed to the side like a swarm of black
bee's, buzzing with excitement. Wilson
poked his head up the companion-way.
‘'Are those black devils murdering you?”
he inquired.
John, at the rail, demanded his glasses.
Away in the distance the smooth waters
churned and frothed. A whale was fighting
for its life. Instantly curious, John called
to the men to square away and ran towards
the conflict. Three sharks had driven the
huge creature into the gulf. In rage the
whale threw itself about, its tail lashing
the waters. One shark, fastened to the
whale’s mouth, battered its victim with
enormous flippers, which rose and fell like
flails.
“That there is the thrasher,” said Wilson
at John’s elbow. “The killer will be under-
neath, cutting the whale’s gullet and drag-
ging out its tongue—’tis all they ever eat.”
He voiced a belief common among old
sailors, which John afterwards discovered
to be a myth.
Suddenly the tortured whale rose straight
up out of the sea, standing on its tail.
Two dark shapes clung to its belly. Through
his glasses John beheld the water turning
red as it poured off the monster. A second
it poised, huge as a square-rigged ship,
then fell with a report that raced across
the water to the crew of the Sprite.
“Stand away, sir,” cried Wilson. “She’s
heading straight for us, and we will crack
like a shell if she hits us!”
“Hard up!” John yelled to the helmsman.
The Sprite payed off to the wind and shot
ahead. The grim fight passed astern.
Now phosphorus lit the water flying
from the bows at night, and submerged'the
reflections of stars fiercely blazing, until
the moon rose up out of the sea and
drowned all but the brightest in a flood of
white radiance. Dolphins shot through the
dark waves, or played follow-my-leader
like undulating black serpents in the pale-
blue morning sea. Flying fish glistened as
they whizzed past, sometimes falling with
a thud on to the decks. Eagerly the natives
seized upon and ate them, nor was the fare
unacceptable in the cabin.
Salt beef and pickled pork soon palls
on the most hardened palate ; Nguri and his
mates implored their master to let them
catch a turtle and so vary the diet. Their
sharp eyes found more than one green-
back sleeping in the sun on the surface of
the water. John remained adamant so long
as the Sprite bowled along with a stiff
breeze filling her sails. Not until the yellow
sands of Mermaid Straits had been left
behind and the schooner was wafted through
smooth seas, past atolls and shoals, towards
Flying Foam Passage, would he give his
consent. He went forward.
“Jacko,” he said.
A grinning little fellow answered promptly
to Babbet’s recently bestowed name. “Yow,
boss.”
“You live up to your name? Suppose
you hop up and look-see turtle?”
Jacko needed no more explanation than
a wave of the hand. He leapt aloft as if
he had lived on a ship all his life, slim
black fingers and toes sure and swift as
those of any old seadog. There he sat
perched, true to his nickname, calling down
to the other boys and keeping them in
roars of laughter. Evidently he was some-
thing of a wit.
His eyes proved as sharp as his tongue;
joking failed to lessen his vigilance. Very
soon he called out: “Turtle plaia [sleepy]!”
The boys rushed en masse to the rail.
Sternly John called them back; then, swing-
ing the schooner round in the direction of
Jacko’s pointing arm, he -told Nguri only
two could go over the side.
John himself scanned the water in vain
for a glimpse of the prey. He could see
nothing. Presently two lumps of seaweed
floated across the rim of his glasses. He
heard Jacko chanting “larungahudu [two]
plaia,” and realised the seaweed was in
reality two sleeping turtles. Jacko had
spotted them at least two hundred yards
away.
The Sea Sprite headed to the wind and
hove to. Over went a pair of natives for
each turtle, and after them poured the
instructions of their excited mates. Quietly
the swimmers approached, black heads
bobbing on an iridescent sea. Soon the
nearer turtle was caught, and now lay
splashing helplessly on its back. Its vain
efforts awakened its mate. Before clutching
black fingers could close upon its shell it
dived to safety. No longer could the boys
restrain themselves. Pell-mell over the side
they went, an escort of honor to bring home
the catch.
The feast of the turtle occupied the
natives all day and most of the night. They
brought the boss a fat steak for the cabin
—which Babbet fried to a nicety—and no-
body interfered with their merriment. The
deck of the Sprite witnessed strange dances
in the light of the moon, and the songs
which came to John’s ears in the night-
watches were songs of the world’s infancy;
their rhythmic rise and fall made him feel
ancient beyond belief, and at the same
time alien and new. They were mysteri-
ous and terrifying; they were simple and
a part of all life.
“Foam Land’s ahead, sir,” Wilson told
him as he went on deck at dawn. Smooth
and blue in the distance lay a strip of
mainland. John had heard of the Foam
Land, a range of rugged hills, rocky, spini-
fex-covered, with ravines and gullies so
deep as to render it almost impossible to


TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline
“Silver Edge?
with RAYBESTOS
:*■ '■~'■ '■ ;
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles-—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
48d Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., tTD., Adelaide.
Every
Swan Pen is
unreservedly
guaranteed lo
give satisfaction
A fountain pen that has a reputation
for continuing to write perfectly for
thirty or forty years does not need
extravagant claims to support it.
Nevertheless the “ Swan ” Pen is
guaranteed by the makers to serve
you faithfully for an unlimited time.
The longer you use a “Swan” Pen the more you
will appreciate the perfect writing qualities
and constant reliability which have made
the “ Swan ” craftsmanship world-famous.
THE GUARANTEED
Swan
MADE IN ENGLAND
BLACK or MOTTLED" SWANS.” from 20/-
COLOURED “ SWANS ” - - from .2/6
“ Fyne-Poynt ” Pencils to match from 8/6
“ Blackbird ” Pens - - - from .0/-
Of Stationers and Jewellers.
Illustrated list post free.
Mabie, Todd & Co., Ltd., Swan House,
London, W.l.
Factories : London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot |
Phipson & Company Ltd., 181, Clarence St.,
Sydney.
lh
%
a
ut <9 w
(tms
Remember to use
'SWAN'INIt
d
Not only for “ Swan
Pens, but for all pens.
Made in blue-black, red,
blue, green or violet.
A (A)
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote ycHi price for the original.
traverse the ranges except on foot. What
sanctuary for wild and treacherous natives!
Many a killer of men and stock found
refuge there from the white men who were
slowly but surely over-running the country.
All day John watched the high land draw
closer, till, as a long narrow island showed
up on the sea side, the Sprite lay in the
lee of the precipitous hills. Not a cloud
flecked the inverted blue bowl of the sky.
Not a sign of life showed anywhere except
on the decks. A soft light breeze blew off-
shore, laden with the sweet peculiar scent
of spinifex. A heady fragrance to John.
Even the morose Wilson yielded to the
spell of such halcyon weather and sat on
the hatch whistling instead of staying below
as was his habit when off duty. John had
little in common with the mate, whom he
had chosen entirely because of his quali-
fications as a seaman. The cook soon proved
a more entertaining ship-fellow. John
Fordyce loved his fellow men. He longed
to be free to follow his own inclinations,
but he dearly loved congenial company. A
decent native would do as well as a white
—even a good dog, should all else fail;
his nature craved some live thing to love
and respect him. Once he caught himself
wondering if it were possible that Wilson
sitting on the hatch, caring, in so far as
John could discover, for nothing more stable
' than a fair wind, was really more free than
his master?
The luck which had followed John since
he passed Dirk Hartog, clung to him still.
They reached the Passage at the turn of
the tide. No need to anchor and await
the current; tides chained John Fordyce
now, a force, mightier than any human
power, governing his comings and goings.
Not yet did such bondage irk him. Through
the river-like channel the inflowing sea
rushed like a mill-race. Caught by the
tide, the Sprite flew through the boiling
water, a stone’s-throw from the cliffs, then
out into a placid cove glowing and golden
in the setting sun.
As the men furled sails and the anchor
rattled out, John turned to the mate.
“Cossack to-morrow night, Mr. Wilson,”
he said.
“An the weather holds, sir.”
John turned on his heel. Why could not
the fellow display just a little enthusiasm?
CHAPTER V.
In which Bella wishes a ship would
sail up Cossack Creek with her new
gown; and John Fordyce doffs his hat
to a little girl.
A young woman stood in the doorway
of a low wood-and-iron building and gazed
out over Cossack Creek. Her voluptuous
figure was wrapped in a gorgeous if slightly
soiled Japanese kimono, an alien and
extravagant garment brought down from
Singapore. A mop of dark red curls, hastily
pinned back, made startling contrast for a
pair of fine black eyes. The tropics had
rubbed the color from her cheeks and the
sun had dusted her thick white skin with
fine freckles, but there clung to her a verve,
a, quality of restless and unconquerable
energy, visible even as she leant slackly
against the wall. Her eyes searched the
scene for any object they had not beheld
a hundred times before—and found nothing
new.
The tide had turned, was running in
across the rocks and sandbanks of the
empty creek, lisping round the keels of two
or three small schooners and a dozen
dinghies lying high and dry on their sides.
Half an hour earlier it had been possible
for a man to walk across to Jarman Island;
now a thin blue ribbon was tied about it,
with ends streaming out closer and closer
to a gap in the forest of mangrove-trees
through which the creek drained away in-
land.
“You are up early, Bella,” said a man’s
voice behind her. “What are you expect-
ing?”
Bella wheeled round to face the publican,
a small hawkish man sketchily clad in a
sarong. She gave a little laugh. “Nothing
—more’s the pity of it! Leastways, you
never know. A ship might come in from
south. It must be three months and more
now since we’ve had one. And it is close
on a year since I sent away for a new
gown.”
The little man chuckled. “Trust Bella!
'Nothing,’ says she. And all the time it’s
the mightily serious matter of a gown!” He
noted a frown on the girl’s face with alarm.
He had no desire to find her growing tired
of ' Cossack and drifting away. Far too
•valuable an asset to lose! Bella lent quite
a tone to the place, with her piano-playing,
and. fetched men out from Roebourne,
where the pub boasted neither pianoforte
aor barmaid to play it.
Before he could think of a suitable way to
divert her, Bella spoke again: “Look, Mark,
there goes little Sophie Gannet, taking old
Ma’s goats out on the hills. It beats me
why the horrid old devil doesn’t get a black-
fellow to do that. It’s my belief she likes to
sweat the poor child!”
“She sure has been rough since the old
cap’n went potty,” replied the publican.
“She was jealous, that’s what it was,”
asserted Bella, nodding her head slowly as
:if she understood Ma’s feelings. “Peter
Gannet took too much notice of Sophie so
long as he had his wits, having her brought
up so ladylike and all. It’s my belief he
made Ma wait on her, and the old cat is
making up for it. I’m off to speak to the
child. She looks so sad and all it fair gives
me the creeps.”
-Mark watched-her-mn -hatless into the
brilliant sunshine after Sophie and her
goats. For a few moments she fluttered like
a huge butterfly beside the slender drab
figure of the child. Mark saw the flash
of Sophie’s . smile beneath the shadow of
her wide felt hat, and when Bella turned
back to the pub she continued on her way
with a bright pink ribbon tied round the
battered crown.
The little man greeted Bella enthusiasti-
cally.
“That’s our Bella. Always thinking of
somebody else.” He gave her arm a
squeeze. “You’re a good sort, me dear.”
Bella pushed him away with playful
roughness. “Go on!” she said; but the
color in her cheeks came from more than
physical exertion, and Mark knew she was
pleased.
“Anyway, Bella can well afford to give a
length of ribbon away this morning. Just
take a look at what Baia gave- me last
night.” She extended a moist palm; a pair
of very fair pearls shone milkily in their
hot, pink nest.
Mark winked and whistled. “You must
hev bewitched the man. Them’s worth a
tidy sum. Good luck to it, say I. But
he’s an ugly customer, Bella. You take care
of your skin. I’ve heard he’s killed a gin
for less than you’d imagine!”
“Gin, indeed!” Bella tossed her red curls.
“I like that! I’ll trouble you to remember
I’ve lived under your roof near two years,
Mark! That’s an education and all if you
like. And Bella didn’t come from London
to Sydney and from Sydney to this hell
full of black savages without learning to
mind her own advantage!”
The tide whispered among the man-
groves, crept across the sands. Slowly the
boats rose and straightened, till the hot,
mid-morning sun glanced off a shimmering
expanse of deep water. Up the creek sailed
the Sea Sprite, clean and white and grace-
ful as a gull against azure depths of sea
and sky.
John Fordyce scanned the shore with
interest; his eyes swept from the sharp
blue outline of distant flat-topped ranges
to red rocks sloping near to the water’s
edge. Emerald-green mangroves every-
where lined the creek, rising ahead to a
positive jungle, but the scarlet soil posr
sessed no other covering than a veil of
dried grasses and soft-looking, deceptive
puffs of prickly spinifex. High in the air
a score of crows wheeled back and forth,
round and out above the houses.
“What an extraordinary-looking place!”
John Fordyce remarked to Wilson. “I
have seen peculiar buildings in my time, but
this beats the band! Look at the anchor
chains! Might well be a lunatic asylum.”
Half a dozen dwellings straggled up the
hill from the edge of the creek, all chained
to the ground by cables which passed right
over their roofs. The dismantled hulk of a
schooner lay close to the water, and about it
clustered a score of huts and camps.
“Yes,” answered Wilson. “The chains
are in case of hurricanes.”
“And wot yer’d call necessary, too, sir,
if I may make so bold as ter interrupt,”
chimed in Babbet, who had come up to
take a look round. “A willy-willy would
sweep the lot clean as this ’ere deck if they
wasn’t anchored. Done it more than once—
till folks got enough sense to tie theirsels
down. I’ve only bin in one blow, thanks
be, and I may say ’urricanes ain’t in it!”
“What is the wreck?” asked John.
“Ain’t no wreck, sir; leastways not now.
Schooner Perseverance that was, wot got
run aground on the rocks, but a sensible
feller ’auled ’er up there, and now she’s a
pub.”
“A pub! What is that big building,
then?”
“Another pub, sir; belongs to chap name
o’ Mark. Tony spot that, with barmaid
an’ all. But I likes ter drink me beer in the
old Perseverance, sir! A good end fer a
good ship, sez I!” ,
Before he left for the shore John saw the
Sea Sprite securely anchored in such manner
as to procure the maximum of comfort
when the tide ran out. She was placed
close in, one anchor dropped in the stream,
another run ashore, whilst a quantity of
cable chain was piled to port to insure
that she canted towards the land when she
took the ground, so remaining more or less
upright when high and diy.
Bella had seen the Sprite from her bed-
room window, and now she watched John
Fordyce as he stepped up through the
mangroves and swung along towards Mr.
Coffey’s store. Whoever could the young
fellow be? Some new pearler, surely; his
schooner was too small for a trader, and
Bella thought she knew every man on the
coast.
Coatless, shirt open at the neck, sleeves
rolled up on his brown arms and hat stuck
at a jaunty angle, John strode gaily along
with eyes alert and keen. Not for nothing
his nickname. There was an air about him
which attracted the attention of men no
less than the glances of women. He paused
to talk to a couple of sailors. A fly crawled
on his neck. He swept off his hat to wave
about his head. Bella had no idea what
caused his careless action, but she liked the
debonair gesture and still more she liked
the face for a second clearly defined by the
brilliant harsh light. •
(TjO be continued next week.)


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Uyan, Esq. s
V. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all'general banking business.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
N,
b
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
ď
srhe world's
MOST PERFECT
PUMP
The “Kismet” Duplex Master
is the aristocrat of Pumps.
Because of its patent super-charged action, it delivers
twice the volume of air with half the effort. Strongly built to
give lasting service, it is an engineer’s job throughout. It makes
tyre inflation a pleasure, and is unconditionally guaranteed.
IT’S THE PUMP YOU NEED. ' Price 84/-
Kismet
DUPLEX “MASTER’*
FOOT PUMP
Two
đ
in One
d
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, England,
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, Q.P.O. Box7l, Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Sydney punters are wondering how good
Maybe (Magpie-AVorthy Bee) is. He has
scored on each of the last three Saturdays,
and his party will now have to try him in
first-class company, if only for betting con-
siderations. Except on the tote, which never
turns money away, it was hard to get a
wager on Maybe in his division of the Tliree-
year-old Handicap at Moorefield, though
several bookmakers called 8 to 1 bar one.
Jimmy Munro had an armchair ride on the
favorite (2 to 1 on, nominal), who, it may
be presumed, will now be prepared for the
Doncaster. Three-year-olds (Golden Gate
and Satmoth) won the Challenge Stakes and
Anniversary Handicap; this Page, for one,
will not be surprised if they add the Don-
caster-Sydney Cup double to their very
respectable achievements this year. Three-
year-old form is good; that of the older
horses, with very few exceptions, is mediocre;
so three-year-olds may be expected to go
on winning.
Owners whose horses failed at Randwick
collected consolation prizes at Moorefield.
Tenacious, another son of Magpie (the dam
is Girton Girl, who won good races as a
two-year-old for the elder Kelso), had run
well forward in Satmoth’s Anniversary
Handicap, so naturally he was made favo-
rite (at twos) for the Ivogarah Stakes, in
which, with Cook up and only Bst. to carry,
he was meeting fourth-raters. He won
Bert; Is the tide going out 2^
// f
Gert,'-Yes, dont go too nea.r
the shark- Proof net"
Bert ; %/hv, is it oa,hc;erous
Gert */Ves, DERr ; you might
sup through",
easily, but not so easily as Vallage (7 to
1), who came right away from a pretty
good field of sprinters (it included Beck-
with, who ran third, and Erbie) in the Fly-
ing Handicap. Vallage is by Valais (he was
one of the last of that great sire’s off-
spring) out of Mucilage, a noted mare on
pony courses. Like Maybe, he is in the
Doncaster.
Gold Digger (7 to' 2) also made amends
for his failures (he was badly away on
each occasion) at Rand wick; but Gordon
Luscombe, who owns and trains him, did
not need the consolation prize. He has been
very successful lately with his small team,
which includes Lady Joy, winner of two
races at Randwick, and Jeanie McNisli, a
daughter of imported Grand Joy—Jeannie
Deans; Lady Joy is by Grand Joy—Del-
hiana. Jeanie McNisli (5 to 4 on) cleared
out in the Juvenile Stakes at Moorefield;
second to her was a thing called Patiala,
whose few backers collected £l2 2s. for every
10s. staked on the tote.
A mare called Tea Fight (Tea Tray—
Fair Fight) gave McShortodds a welcome
change of fortune by capturing the Moore-
field Handicap after a close finish, in which
aji unknown apprentice, Pickering, showed
that he was not daunted by the reputation
of Knox (on the second horse, Rogerson),
who has a great following these days. In-
trepid (6 to 1) was third; a poor start
settled his chance. Magnetic, a short-priced
favorite for the Hurstville Mile, ran one
of his bad races, and Wedding Feast (5
to 2) led the way home, My Talisman and
Gallant Top following. Wedding Feast is
owned and trained by veteran Dick O’Con-
rior. and Bartle, the jockey, had a lot in
hand at the finish.
The Moorefield club, which still houses
its grandstand tote in a glorified stable-loft,
and clings to the antiquated 60-20-20 method
of distribution, has spent a few pounds on
a white board, with numbered blocks, on
which to publish dividends. It used to chalk
them up on an old blackboard. With an-
other white board and a, few more hands, it
could give the small punter a tolerable sub-
stitute for the win-and-plaee betting on the
improved Julius macliinc which has proved
so attractive at Randwick, and it should be
compelled to provide it, even if permitted
to retain the glorified stable-loft and rubber-
stamped tickets during the depression period.
Indeed, if the Government had any gump-
tion, it would insist on all these proprietary
clubs furnishing facilities, for straiglitout,
place and doubles tote wagering, though a
Government with gumption would likewise
reduce its tote commission from 9 to 5 per
cent, and thereby strike an effective blow at
the army of starting-price parasites.
* * * *
For Roseliill on Saturday:—
Three-year-old Handicap: Ethics; next,
Ranchero or Ranier.
Flying Handicap: Bayacre ; next, Ranier
or Remora.
Rosehill Handicap; Chide; next, Tan-
trum.
Carlingford Handicap: Tantrum or
Ethics; next. Magnetic.
* * * *
Ascot (Vic.) racecourse looked trans-
formed on Saturday, when Melbourne punt-
ers were forced to obtain their week-end
sport through a source from which many of
them had held aloof for years. What are
known as “pony” meetings in the Vic. capi-
tal used to be regarded almost with abhor-
rence by conservative turf followers, but
legislation to reduce racing has vastly raised
the status of V.T. and R.A. courses, which
now share dates with the A r .R.C. clubs and
have an occasional Saturday allotted to
them. Richmond and Fitzroy are, closed for
galloping fixtures, and ultimately trotting
meetings also will be held at Ascot. Ascot
had to be remodelled, and it must be said
that secretary G- J. C. Dyett made a good
job of it. Accommodation is superior to
that at Mentone and Epsom. Tote build-
ings have not yet been installed, but they
are to be put in hand shortly.
Before long the Melbourne “pony” courses
will certainly come under V.R.C. jurisdic-
tion. Already V.R.C. horses are competing
there under a reciprocal arrangement, and
the premier club .sent its stipendiary stew-
ards to Ascot to report on conditions gen-
erally. About a quarter of a century ago
the V.R.C. refused the entry of horses be-
longing to John Wren. Now it is on
the verge of assuming jurisdiction over a
course (or courses) which Wren and Ben
Nathan operated before selling out to the
Vic. Trotting and Racing Association.
Ben, once a colossal punter, now takes no
personal interest in the game. Nor is John
Wren seen at the pony gatherings, though
his brother Joe looks after the licensing of
bookmakers and attends to other duties.
Song Queen, a three-year-old filly by
Spearhead from Vocal Princess, was made
the medium of a big plunge by her owner-
trainer, Tindall, at Ascot. There were 18
starters in the second heat of the Purse:
yet she went oqt at 6 to 4, and, with “Tich”
Wilson up, led all the way. Song Queen,
bred at . the No'orilim stud in Victoria by
the late Norman Falkiner, is reported to
have realised 1250gns. as a yearling. It
must have been a private purchase, for the
transaction is not recorded in the “Turf
Register.” Her dam is by Comedy King
from imported Yippingale, who produced
The Warbler, Even Song and Queen
Warbler. .As a juvenile Song Queen was
second at Yarra Glen and unplaced at Morn-
ington. Starting at long odds, she ran
second to Flying Crow at Kyneton on
January 22, and that performance encour-
aged Tindall to go for a lick at Ascot.
Tindall also captured the Two-year-old
Handicap with Ivyoslik, a gelding by Man-
fred from the 1918 Oaks winner, Stagegirl.
Leslie Aldridge bred Kyoshk, who fetched
ISOgns. as a yearling. In 1925 his dam
foaled to Lucknow a colt which the late
J. E. Brewer originally registered as The
Cad but renamed The Gay Mutineer. No
error was made by Tindall in backing
Kyoshk, but the nag had to be ridden out
to stall off a challenge from Greenfuss. with
Papeete a close third. Both .second and
third horses were sired by Greenstead. The
favorite, Cassiopeia, who had scored so bril-
liantly at Moonee Valley a week before, was
practically unsighted. Ascot, with its up-
hill straight, is more difficult to negotiate
than “the Valley.”
Harold Jones, who has ridden with suc-
cess in several States, piloted two winners
and was concerned in a dead-heat for first
place in another event. “Tick” Wilson, the
jockey who has decided to try his luck in
England, bettered that achievement with a
bag of three firsts. Wilson weighed out
for Tindall’s victorious pair, and landed a
heat of the Galloway Handicap on Camolin.
W. S. Hickenbotham, whose late father-
trained Carbine, hoped to annex the Ascot
£5OO with Gracwin, but the mare let him
down badly. .Credence, favorite for the race,
also failed signally. E. Baxter, on the 4-
to-1 chance Blematic, got up in time to
make a dead-heat on the post with Ivaoota.
It was the second dead-heat during the
afternoon.
Horses are rapidly assembling in Mel-
bourne for the autumn meetings. Many
celebrities are engaged at Williamstown next
Saturday, and if Ammon Ra goes to the
post in the C. F. Orr Stakes, run at weight-
for-age over a mile, there will be a contest
well worth witnessing, as the field is likely
to include Greenline, Waterline, Middle
Watch and the resurrected Mystic Peak.
Selections
C. F. Orr Stakes: Ammon Ra; next,
Greenline.
Wyndham Handicap: St. Frederick; next,
Purveyor.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Although Frank Van knocked out New-
castle Jimmy Pearce in 10 rounds at Sydney
Stadium nearly four years ago the success
was not repeated when they met again at
Leichhardt last Friday night. Pearce (11.24)
handed out heavy punishment in every round,
and, as the 13th was ending, knocked Van
silly across the middle ropes.
:i= * * *
Bulgarian George Pern-luff (13.10) and
Russian Tom Lurich (14.1) fought so much
in the first round of Saturday’s Leichhardt
Stadium wrestling match that the police
told them to moderate their transports. This
warning failed to worry the wrestlers, how-
ever, and. following precedent, biting, goug-
ing, kicking and punching were witnessed.
As each man had gained a fall the melee was
declared a draw.
The Ins and Outs
After making a promising start in the
fourth Test at Adelaide, the South Africans
again allowed themselves to be Grimmetted
out in the closing stages of their first inn-
ings, which ended for SOS after four
wickets had fallen for 204. The opening bats-
men this ume seemed to have sized Grimmett
up, Mitchell (75) and Taylor (78) playing
him with dash and confidence, as did Cameron
(52). After that, save for a good contribu-
tion of 48 n.o. by Vincent, nothing much
was done, Grimmett finishing with 7 for 116.
Ponsford failed again, but a stand by Wood-
full and Bradman followed. The skipper
went for a characteristic 82, but when
Kippax was run out for a duck and McCabe
left for 2 the tourists’ chances looked
brighter. However, Bradman, going like a
scalded cat, got another double century, and
the innings closed on Mondav for 512. Brad-
man’s share was n. 0.; in trying to reach
300 lie ran out the last man, Thurlow.
* * * :]:
Queensland gave Victoria some leather-
hunting in their return match at Brisbane,
the home side running up the big total of
504 in the first day and a half of the game.
The ex-N.S.W. batsman Andrews showed
a return to his old form with an attractive
110, while that hardy veteran Ron Oxenham
closed liis first-class season with 162 n.o.—
the highest score of his first-class cricket
career. Bensted hit freely for 83, and with
some minor contributions by Cook (36) and
Mossop (29) the innings ended. For Vic-
toria Ironmonger could do nothing right with
the ball, having 93 runs knocked off him
without a wicket, something new for him:
a’Beckett’s 4 for 105 was Victoria’s only
respectable-looking bowling average. Vic-
toria made 277 : Darling (48), Oakley (38),
a’Beckett (47) and Barnett (56).
■f * * *
“Hotliam”: There has been a lot of barg-
ing among the old cricket heads of late
because some cricketers in Victoria and
N.S.W. have been broadcasting descriptions
of matches on the air. One or two zealots
have been of the opinion that this consti-
tutes a breach of the agreement between the
board and the players that writing for the
press by a player is not to be done, save in
the form of an impartial report and without
comment. The board has now announced
that as long as a player does not make in-
vidious references to his fellow-players or
opponents, and, moreover, to the board
itself, there is no reason to worry.
“Aigburth”: Australians in touch with
Lancashire cricket —and there seem to be
a good few of them knocking about —will
hear with regret of the death of Harry
Rylance, for the last ten years secretary of
Lancashire County and Manchester Cricket
clubs. To the uninitiated it may as well be
explained that the twain are practically one,
with their headquarters at famous Old Traf-
ford. A good cricketer himself, Rylance
never got as far as the Red Rose cap, though
he must have come near it as a bowler. He
was a soccer enthusiast as well as a cricketer,
and one of England’s notable referees, as
befits a man coming from the county which
lias fathered such teams as Blackburn
Rovers, Bolton Wanderers, Preston North
End and Everton.
(Continued on page 31.)
The Australian National Games in Mel-
bourne produced some outstanding perfor-
mances, though the absence of Jim Carlton
rather robbed them of interest. Two especi-
ally notable were Tasmanian Barwick’s win
in the mile and Victorian Larky’s success in
the 120 hurdles. Barwick hoisted a new
Australian record with 4min. 16 4-ssec. —
6 2-ssec. worse than Nurmi’s world’s figures.
Larky’s time was 15 l-ssec. —less than a
second behind the world’s best for the dis-
tance.
* # * #
Australian tennis followers got an ugly
shock when the Japanese players badly beat
Australia in the opening stages of the second
Test at Perth, the visitors winning the three
singles and two doubles matches right off
the reel. Crawford was at his very worst,
succumbing to the junior Nipponese. Nunoi.
This will probably decide the authorities not
to waste money on sending an Australian
Davis Cup side away.


“EOTHEN”
if
[paying guests
128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St'
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
GARAGE
inclusive Tariff, £4-4-0
- Central 528
Mrs. PARKER
CONSTIPATION
Stopped by
COLOSEPTIC
The modern foods we eat,
the stress of post-war life and
the strain of present day busi-
ness combine to produce selL
poisoning ( autoxima ), the re-
sult of hidden and unsuspected
constipation from which nine
out of ten suffer. Particles of
food waste not properly evacu-
ated become encrusted in the
intestine, much as a water pipe
becomes coated with rust. This
waste decays and ferments, har-
bouring disease-breeding germs
and poisons, These are absorbed
into the system, thus polluting
the blood stream, undermining
your health, sapping your
vitality and bringing on all
manner of aches, pains and
sicknesses.
Before the health and vigour
of youth can be regained this
waste matter must be flushed
right out of the system. The
safe, simple way to do this is to
drink COLOSEPTIC. It com-
pletely loosens off, dissolves
and washes out the decaying
wasteland rids the body of all
poisons and blood impurities
through Nature’s four great
outlets the large intestine
the kidneys the pores of the
skin and the respiratory organs.
Poor health is a tremendous
handicap in business, profes-
sional and social life. If you are
a victim of aches, pains, and ail-
ments, you cannot be judged at
your best—you cannot reach
your full measure of success.
Are you suffering from con-
stipation, headaches, weakness,
indigestion, gas in the stomach
and bowels, catarrh, backache,
rheumatism, neuritis, eczema,
pimples? Drink COLOSEPTIC
and personally prove how it
promptly surmounts your par-
ticular health difficulty how it
restores radiant health how llj
renews the old youthful energjf
and vigour. Test the powerf;
of COLOSEPTIC by sending
1/- in stamps or postal note tjb
COLOSEPTIC CO. LTD. (Dept.
A 4), 10 O’Connell Street. New-
town, N.S.W., for a Special
Demonstration Jar and the valu-
able health booklet “Autoximti.”
COLOSEPTIC is sold in regular
full-sized jars at all Chemists
and stores.
i he Ins and Outs
The Afrikanders, made a fairly tidy job of
their match with South Australia at Adel
aide, winning by seven wickets. feouth Aus-
tralia put up a gallant tight in the' Second
innings; it reached 430, Lonergan totting up
a well-played 119, and Clarne Gnmmett
coming along with one of his emergency
shots for 63 n.o. Left-hander Vincent
showed remarkably good bowling figures, tor
in 37 overs only 78 runs were scored ott
him, while he took 5 wickets. South Africa
lost three wickets before getting the 11 <
needed to win. Taylor (68 n. 0.) and
Cameron (30 n. 0.) settled tbe argument.
* * * :,i
The Sheffield Shield game between Vic-
toria and N.SAV. at Sydney Cricket Ground
ended in a win for the Ma State by -39
runs. Ma closed with four gone for 089, to
which Stan McCabe contributed 103. Ot
course, Bradman had to hog another cen-
tury (167). With a stiff job facing them
the Yarramen put up a good battle. Like a
long beer in the Sinai desert was the smack-
ing innings of Thomas, a Victorian country
left-hander, who smote the bowling as they
did in the days of the Barmecides, until he
went for 70. Oakley (93 n. 0.), had a gallant
try to make a draw of it, but the job was
too stiff.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Stanley McCabe, who, when
he notched 103 and 106 (both n. 0.) against
Victoria in Sydney, joined the ranks of the
cricketers who have piled up two centuries
in a first-class match, has a curious record
for a cricketer of his calibre. Until this
season he had never made three figures
in a first-class game, but he opened his
account with 229 n.o. against Queensland in
Brisbane. With liis scores in this last match
his Sheffield Shield average reads 43S for
once out. In all big games this year, he
has scored 778 runs for an average of 111.14
per innings. He may be a super-batsmen,
as Bradman is claimed to be, but, in my
humble opinion, these big scores and aver-
ages of nowadays do not come so much from
exceptional batting capacity as from the
tenth-rate bowling one sees on every side.
* * * sit
“S.T.S.”: Hasn’t the 12th-man idea gone
astray in Test cricket? In touring State
teams he is of course a necessity to fill any
chance vacancy, the side readjusting itself
as best it can. But in the bigger matter
what hope has (for example) Fingleton—-
still called 12th while 15 or 16 have climbed
over his head- —if the slow bowler or the
fast bowler or the wicket-keeper should drop
out beforehand? And if anybody gets hurt in
the match itself his powers are strictly
limited by law. How much is spent, in a
season like the present, on sending a man to
a distant city to do what a local man could
do at least as well? When the XI is finally
settled, the emergency man might always be
just the best fieldsman in the city where the
Test is played.
*f* •}* 'l* *Jt
“Third Man”: One of the big turns of
the N.S.W. cricketing year has been the
series of country tours undertaken at. Easter
by teams selected and financed by the State
association. The cheapness of motor trans-
port of late years has enabled the governing
body to extend these tours to a considerable
extent. This season it is doubtful if there
will be any at all. Secretary Heydon
told the association in a report the other day
that the charge under the Lang transport
legislation of a penny per head per mile ruled
road transport out of consideration. As
most of the centres which these educational
teams have visited in the past lie out of the
path of the railway lines, it can be seen
what a lot Lang has done for cricket in the
country.
* $ s|i
“Torrens”: Clarrie Grimmett’s score of
63 n.o. against the Springboks is not his
largest, for a few years ago he ran to 75,
also n. 0., against N.S.W. Like Barney Old-
field, who stood high in the batting averages
of the A.I.F. team, though few remember it
to-day, Grimmett started out in life with the
determination to become a batsman. His
failure to live up to his ambitions in this
respect is probably accountable for his over-
whelming success as a bowler. H'e is not
altogether by himself in the matter of unex-
pected scores, either. Even Arthur Mailey
has a top score of 46 to his credit in a Test
match, while in Sheffield cricket he once
wangled his way past 60.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin” : In spite of the defeat of the
Australians by Satoli and co. the tennis heads
have entered this country for the Davis Cup.
It is stated that the fact of entering does
not mean that a team will be sent, but this
attitude has been contradicted by the appoint-
ment of Clemenger as captain-manager of
the team-to-be, Clemenger was once a
N.S.W. player, but, considering his tennis
merits were not appreciated in his native
State, he went to Victoria. A good
doubles player, he is said to have all the
qualifications which the job of managing a
tennis team demands. Personally the writer
would sooner be managing director of a
grand-opera company than take on a task of
the kind.
% * * * .
“H'otham” : The head serangs of Australian
tennis in Melbourne were greatly gratified
the other day at a cabled suggestion that
the British Lawn Tennis Association might
dip into its well-filled coffers and give the
Australian team for the Davis Cup tourney
a “dash” towards its expenses in coming to
Europe, provided the team appeared at
Wimbledon. Australia has challenged for
the Cup in the American zone. The British
offer has been made in the hope of bringing
them across the Atlantic, for, win or lose,
the Australians have always been a big draw-
card at Wimbledon.
* * * *
“Ellesmere” : What the Australian women
tennisettes did to their Maoriland contem-
poraries in the first Test can only be
described as a shame. Final scores were 8
rubbers to the winners and 4 to the losers,
the MX. girls taking only one singles and
one doubles match on each of the two days
of the tourney. The outstanding player of
the match was Queenslander Mrs. Moles-
worth. who, for some reason or other, is
tabbed as of N.S.W. by journals on this side.
Car and Cycle
“Teiiakoe”: After many disappointments
and much advertisement, Norman Smith, who
seems to have parted brassrags with his one-
time cobber Don IJarkness, the designer of
the chassis of his car, has been able to have
a shy at a world’s record on Kaitaia
Beach in Maoriland. The beach was not in
good enough condition for him to attempt the
hair-raising speed necessary to beat the
record for the mile, but he was able to crack
existing figures for 10 miles. Though the
driver was much troubled by sand and spray
on the windscreen, the big car averaged
164.084 m.p.h. for the two-way run —about
150 m.p.h. against the wind and 178 with it.
The previous best was Mrs. Stewart’s 137
m.p.h., done on the circular banked track at
Montlhery in France. Two years ago Smith
cut out 145.6 m.p.h. on this same beach, but
since there was no official timing, the run
went into the discard.
* * * *
“FY7”: Some time ago the writer was up
in the Riverina country on an errand which
may be safely described as connected with
polo. Driving home in a car with a local
resident, he was surprised by the carefree
way the lad at the wheel just went through
the gates on the road. “It doesn’t matter,”
the driver said. “We’ll pay for 'em, any-
how.” Some of the same artless fellows are,
apparently, flourishing in America to-day.
Anyway, the State of Milwaukee has adopted
a pattern of gate for its roads crossing
railway lines which is practically fool-
proof—or at least, motor-proof, which is
saying much the sajne thing. These gates,
with a chain cable running through the
middle, will stop any car, and a spring adjust-
ment prevents damage to the vehicle and
the hog driving it.
;J: jJi jJj 5jS
“Benzine”: Anyone know when the first
motor-cycle was invented V My first experi-
ence of it was in a quiet Brisbane street in
the 1890’s, when a series of shattering
reports and a smell as if The Pit had been
uncovered brought us all out into the open
to see an enterprising pal of mine named
Knight Eaton endeavoring to get an extra-
ordinary contraption—in the light of our
modern conceptions—working. All the cab-
and other horses in the vicinity made for
the Outback, and the unhappy pioneer had
not only to endure ridicule from his best
MISUNDERSTOOD.
SALTBUSH BILL (regarding the indignant lady player , engaged in timing up the partner
who has let her down in the mixed doubles ) “Wot's she roustin’ on 'im for? ’E’s
a bonzer shot. W'y, I bin ’ere two ’ours an’ ’e ain’t missed th' fence wunst.”
friends but also the cost of a pair of
trousers, his pants being ruined by the
machine’s sudden determination to burn itself
to the ground, one which it accomplished to
its entire satisfaction. There has been a con-
troversy on the subject of motor-cycle in-
vention in Britain. The blame seems to
have been fastened on one Samuel Butler,
of Erith. May his sins be forgiven him!
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: Hubert Opperman, who has
been keeping fairly quiet of late, is think-
ing of making a tour of the Queensland
cycling centres towards the end of February.
The Victorian rider has never been seen in
person in Queensland, a State which has
produced many great cyclists, and there
should be money in the trip. Opperman
has been asked to return to Europe for this
year’s Tour de France. Other parties urge
him to remain in Australia and take part in
a number of important events, including
three-day races in Tasmania, South Aus-
tralia and Westralia. Add to these the
Queensland trip, and the proposition looks
a lot better than the expensive and perhaps
abortive journey to Europe.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham” : Melbourne golfers sat up
and took notice the other day when Harada
turned out for a round with Ivo Whitton
against Norman Brookes and H. W. Grirn-
wade. The latter pair won the 18 holes of
match play 1 up, hut the game was very
close throughout. Harada’s game naturally
attracted a lot of attention. A very hard
hitter in tennis, he goes to the other extreme
in his golf, rarely getting a long ball from
the tee. He is very steady and correct, how-
ever, and loses little in errors. Those watch-
ing him at Frankston rated him as a minus-
three man on the handicap list.
* ❖ ❖ t\i
“Hokusai”: The Scots have not by any
means their own way in American golf (B.
27/l/’32). In the last contest for the open
championship of America there were three
Japanese, all of whom did well. One of
them, Myamoto, of Osaka, gave Billy
Burke, who, in spite of his name, is an
Esthonian and holder of several American
championship titles, a neck-and-neck go for
the round in which they met, which had to
go to the 20th hole. Asami was another
who lasted until he was outed by the for-
midable Louis Diegel, and Satoh,‘ who also
put up a good showing, was the third. He
went out early, though he is one of Cali-
fornia’s best players.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: For some reason or other
Queensland’s country golf clubs have been
fighting shy :of Country Week. The Q.G.C.
is making a determined effort this year to
wake things lip, and to that end has
appointed T. J. Strong, of Maryborough, the
leader of its publicity campaign. All Bris-
bane clubs have consented to lend their
courses as required, and a big muster of the
he-men from the wide and open spaces is
confidently hoped for.
“Fakarava” : I may as well start at once
by saying that I utterly disbelieve “Funa-
futi’s” yarn about his golfing experiences in
the Gilberts (B. 27/l/’32). It is people
like “Funa.” who get the South Sea Islands
into disrepute. In any case, if lie is the mail
I think he is, the brand of gin he and his
partner used to sell at Funafuti would
account for all the earthquakes lie talks
about. My own golf experience in the
Paumotos may be worth reciting, however.
My partner and myself went one day to do
some short approach practice on the outer
beach, which had been beaten flat and hard
by the surf. We stood a hundred, yards
apart, and each dropped a ball at his foot,
the idea being to play them back and forth.
I was a good deal surprised, after one or
two exchanges of the kind, to find that after
I had played a shot a ball was lying close
to my stance. Looking at my partner, at
the moment engaged in playing a shot, I
noted that the same thing applied to him.
When we had finished, each found an un-
worn and fresh ball at his feet, and we
departed homewards, deeply mystified. A
ribald ruffian from a man-o’-war which
dropped in next day suggested we had both
been playing the ball that wasn’t there —the
practice took place, by the way, after
lunch. We were both considerably nettled,
but as he was only a sub-lieutenant we took
no further notice of the matter.
* =l= *
“Noondoo” : Touching recent comment on
the uses of the cleek, a club which has long
vanished from the golfer’s kit, I would like
to make it known to the world -which has
never seen one that I have a specimen over
30 years old in my bag. . Men I meet in
iny few incursions into the game nowadays
are astonished at the narrow, straight-faced
iron, and are often more astonished when
they see what it can do in the way of a
long carry from a bad lie. The shaft, and
especially the grip, is also a matter for
comment. After breaking the original shaft
trying to take too large a divot on a flint-
like western Queensland links, I made one
myself. A good American hickory pick-
handle from the station store was carefully
squared and the four-sided result pared
down with a spokeshave. After fitting the
shaft to the head I made the grip with
chamois leather from the station harness-
room. Both grip and club are wearing
much better than I am.
* * * *
"Iconoclast”: One aspect of golf which
seems to have escaped the attention of the
vulgar crowd is the extent to which it has
intruded on the manlier sports which once
engaged the attention of our youth. In the
days of which I write there were only two
such games—Rugby football and cricket.
Tennis was then regarded as a trifling pas-
time in which one might fool away an unen-
gaged afternoon with some nice girls. To-day
I frequently come across youngsters on the
links who in my time would have been
hogging into a long day's work in the out-
field. or standing up to the rough stuff in a
forward ruck against the All Blacks. It
isn’t that golf is not a fine game in many
respects. But I have known the fathers of
many of the fellows I am talking about, and
good specimens as these are. they seem to
lack the toughness of the older generation.
Miscellaneous
“Old Q.”: The manager of the Spring-
bok team which was so successful on its
recent tour of England has suggested to an
interviewer that “tighter scrums” are
essential to- the wellbeing of the game. I
am doubtful, As one who has played against
some notable teams, I would suggest that
the more sober the forwards are the better.
In the days when I hooked against Maori-
land and N.S.W. teams, none of us thought
of going down into the inferno that used to
be the front row” without a good “stiffener.”
This custom frequently led to unfortu-
nate results. I regret to recall one instance
myself in Queensland. I was called on
suddenly to take the place of another player
who had contracted the same complaint as
myself. Fiddling the ball through the ruck
at my feet I scored what I considered a
rattling try. The trouble was that I had
scored it for the opposing side.
* $ ❖ *
“Splash” : Charlton’s feat in swimming the
440 in 4m. 55 3-ss. set me harking backward.
It must be nearly 30 years since poor
Barney Ivieran astonished the swimming
world by doing the quarter in sm. 195.,
and he was followed by another Australian
record-holder over the distance events. Frank
Beaurepaire. Gradually the time was cut,
mostly by Americans, until Aime Borg was
clocked at sm. 18s. There had been slicker
times than that, but since they were mostly
in short baths with many turns no notice
need be taken of them. Charlton was the
first swimmer to break the five minutes
under record conditions, when he was timed
at 4m. 595. Johnny Weissmuller watered
that down to 4m. 525., which is the world’s
best to-day. In other words, swimmers have
knocked 27 seconds off the time Kieran took
to swim the 440—a record that the shrewdies
then said would never be equalled by mortal
man.
* * * $
“Swan”: Westralia has always had a
good name for genuine sportsmanship, but
a recent display of this spirit seems
to me to be entitled to the bun or
whatever else is going as a reward.
The Gropers are keen sailing men, and
though the distance from the eastern
centres have often handicapped them, have
done very well in the matter of wins. This
year the hard times made it impossible for
two boats to visit Melbourne in February
to contest the 12ft. dinghy championship.
In fact there wasn’t enough money for one,
so, to make sure that the local champion,
Black Arrow, would get a trip, the owners
of White Cloud, a former Australian
champion, raffled their boat and passed the
brass to the fund which will take the West-
ralian representative to Melbourne.


The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
THE "WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE MERRY WIDOW.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE KOYaL :
PANTOMIME
SINEAD THE SAILOR.
LAST NIGHTS, FINISHES FEBRUARY 6.
KING’S THEATRE: AS HUSBANDS GO.
LAST NIGHTS.
Hie Australian Art Exhibition
'THE MACLEOD GALLERY'
Bulletin Sbifflinqs
252 Georqe Street.
v v^>
See announcement page 13.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenstand's
Distinguished Social Life.
The State schools have called their bat-
talions back; but many a mother, with
anxious mind on the most widespread epi-
demic of infantile paralysis Australia has
known, decided to keep Johnny and Beryl
at home. If that means keeping Johnny and
Beryl in the open air, in good, healthy sur-
roundings, well and good. But if it means
getting rid of them by sending them off to
the pictures or some other crowded and
probably ill-ventilated place, the child had
far better be at school, where extra health
precautions are being taken. The “Woman’s
Mirror” medical writer devotes his page this
week to the subject, and says:—
It is important to avoid chills and chances of
cold. The virus can almost certainly be carried
by the hands to the nose and mouth, and the
hands should be washed in soap before eating, and
the habit of touching the nose and mouth should be
avoided.
Advice, in short, is for children during an epidemic
to live as much as possible in the open air, to
eat healthy, nourishing food, to keep the hands clean
and to avoid places where children congregate in
numbers, especially indoors, and, above all, in ill-
ventilated buildings.
If a child becomes feverish and has pains in the
limbs it is wise to see a doctor. If stiffness of the
back or neck develops, or if weakness of a limb
is noticed, the case is urgent. Consult in the first
place your own doctor, or the out-patients’ depart-
ment of a large hospital. It must be remembered
that the best chance of cure lies in the serum, but
this is only curative in the early stages of the
disease, and each day makes a difference in the
usefulness.
Everybody is offering congratulations to
John D. Moore and Gladys Owen. Gladys
is the elder of Justice Owen’s daughters, a
fine artist, a consistent worker for the Red
Cross, of which her mother (the first Mrs.
Owen) was one of the great towers of
strength in its beginnings, and a clever
organiser in the cause of charity. She is a
good speaker, and her recruiting speeches
during the war are still spoken of as among
the finest. John is an architect, lectures
at the University, gives his spare time to
the painting of pictures, and is one of the
most popular men in the art world. His
first wife, who died last year, was Dorothy
Morton, and he has two small children.
If any of you lately saw a tall, avid-look-
ing fellow mooching along the foreshores
and gazing at the Bridge from all angles, as
though he’d like to burgle it, you saw artist
Blamire Young. He came up from Victoria
to study our Bridge by moonlight, dawn and
in the bright of the noonday sun. It fas-
cinated him, and he was just in the thick
of some very interesting sketches when he
was hastily called back because his home in
the Dandenongs was being surrounded by
bush-fires.
We are going to look like the grandeur
that was Greece and the glory that was
Rome this winter, for the dress-architects
have rediscovered the impressiveness of
purple. In the new season’s frocks the rich
color is represented in all its tones —
amethyst, parma violet and lilac, tender as
a memory of old loves. Nor is there any
injustice to Ireland, for chiffons and velvets
as green as the shamrock, as vivid as the
drapes Deirdre trailed through Tara, are
seen in the new frocks, moulded to make
the slimmest show a bust and the plumpest
some indication of waist.
These new frocks are fitting on the Prin-
cess line from above the waist to just above
the knees. Then comes the fulness—not
an exuberant, demonstrative fulness, but
an almost tailored fulness that is the result
of turned-in pleats, or pleated and flared
inlets (our old friend the godet). One
frock of sage-green flat crepe shown when
this Letter was given a private mannequin
parade last week had a swathed waist-to-
liip effect, and wore against its neckline a
flat border of tiny blue hydrangea blossom.
With this went a sage-green velvet coat
with the raglan-cape sleeve of the moment
and a ruched neckline. The coat fitted
sleekly about the hips, and was lined with
hydrangea blue. A kolinsky collar that
finished in a soft flat fur bow was another
temptation to Eve.
The Sunday supper dress is the new name
for the semi-evening or restaurant frock of
former days. One of these in huntsman’s
green georgette managed to combine this
swathed, slimming outline and a glorified
mess jacket edged with a goiffred frill. Of
course, black turns up again, very smart and
French combined with white, and somehow
smacking of Persia or China when red or
gold is stuccoed or inlaid. One frock of
black flat cr£pe had its raglan sleeves of rust
pink, and where these sprouted on the bodice
and where they joined the long narrow cuffs
dull gold thread gleamed. Pressed-in pleats
put in on the cross gave this its swirl about
the instep. Coi'duroy velvet, as soft and
pliable as ring velvet, makes the most luscious
afternoon suits, and when parma violet and
kolinsky are united not all the Justice
McCardies in the world could prevent any
woman with cash or credit to her name from
annexing it.
The bigger the revers the more up-to-date
the coat, and all the little fur fabric coats
are swaggeringly double-breasted, and some
of them have sprouting swallow-tails. All
sleeves are fancy; button, tucks, inverted
gauntlets, leg-o’-mutton swellings, any or all
mark your sleeve of the season. An interest-
ing sports outfit in basket-weave of yellow
and brown tones was in three pieces.
The skirt was made of two flat pieces of
tweed pleated into a hip yoke and fastened
at the waist with buckles. Through it at
the sides can be seen the trousers, which look
like the side pieces of the skirt. With this
is. worn an aprioot Shetland jumper in lace
stitch, and over it goes a brown coat, very
wide as to revers and deep as to beige baby
lamb collar. The point is that the skirt is
discarded during your game of golf, and
slipped on again to make you correct for
shopping or cocktails.
All the trimming of the evening frocks
is at the back. Frills and flounces start
towards the front panel, and are brought
up to the waistline at the back, forming a
bustle effect: if there are enough of these
pleats, and they are deep enough, the result
looks like a cascade. Black evening frocks
have their necklines garlanded with white
gardenias or some such; while one white
moire, very moulded and classic, had flat
white roses over one shoulder and half-way
down the deep V at the back.
Howard Hinton, a trustee of the National
Gallery, is proving one of the most popular
patients Trescol, the private hospital oppo-
site the park in North Sydney, has ever
lodged. He has been suffering with rheu-
matism in the knee, and now the doctors
think they have sleuthed it to his teeth. He
is not too ill to see visitors, and the door-
bell rings incessantly.
The wedding of Pearl Appleton and Teddy
Edwards was unexpected, but the budding
of the romance started before Pearl decided
on America and a Career. Pearl arrived
home a week or two ago, after two and a
half years in New York and Hollywood,
where she had considerable success for a be-
ginner, much of this, no doubt, being due to
Gregan McMahon’s training in the old Reper-
tory days. Pearl is a pretty creature with a
frank tongue and a quick brain. The young
man is a sturdy, handsome landsman with
a chin and a station property Inverell way.
This wedding, curiously enough, has
helped to prove that there’s a swing of the
pendulum towards Matrimony as opposed to
a Career among even the youngest and most
alert of the sex. Here was a girl whose feet
had certainly taken a few steps on the road
to fame; yet, after debating the pros and
cons of it the other morning, a group of
girls whose ages ranged from 17 to 21 decided
that Pearl had chosen the better part.
This is the latest Dayne picture of Mrs.
J. A. Perkins, wife of the Assistant-Minister
in the Lyons
Gov eminent.
For many
years she was
president of
the Manly
branch of the
Country
Women’s Asso-
ciation, and
in that office
was both
popular and
fearless and
it takes a
woman of
great tact to
combine the
two qualities.
Since her hus-
band’s inclu-
sion in the
Ministry, and
Oanbe rra’s
claims on her
time, a vice-presidency in her beloved
C.W.A. is all Mrs. Perkins can manage.
But the Far West Children’s Health scheme
continues to be one of her active interests,
as it has been since Padre Drummond started
his good work.
Violet Roche, in leaf-green chiffons, was
just handing out the second relay of
her golden cocktails the other afternoon
when John Longstaff dropped into the party,
the flush of success on his cheek and the
Archibald Prize in his pocket. Everybody
hurried down still another drink in con-
gratulation. The party was in honor of
violinist Frangoise Mores and of Mrs. Wil-
liam Macleod, who goes to Maoriland
to-morrow, where she will scrabble her bare
toes on a glacier while her friends are
being grilled down to their souls. She made
this statement from beneath a wide, black
hat lined with leaf-green. Bertha Ballenger,
once of Victoria, now of France, friend and
manager of Miss Mores, was with the lady
of the pansy eyes, in rose-patterned crgpe de
Chine.
Here’s a tap on the shoulder from the
long arm. One morning Bertha Ballenger,
who has been away from Australia for years,
asked the commissionaire of the Wentworth
to call her a taxi. She got in, and after a
while thought there was something familiar
about the back of the driver’s neck. She
leaned forward and addressed the broad
back: “Isn’t your name McDonald?” It
was. Called at random from the city’s
hundreds of taxi-drivers, lie was the man
who had been the Ballenger family chauffeur
years ago in Victoria.
Another chauffeur story? This Letter told
you about Alec Melrose, the Adelaide lawyer-
squatter-poet, being in St. Luke’s in Sydney.
Passing through this city he fell sick, called
in a doctor and was ordered into hospital.
The doctor chose St. Luke’s and undertooK
to make all necessary arrangements. Also
he gave Mr. Melrose a letter introducing
him to the matron. After lunch the sick man
called a taxi and told the driver where to
take him. He went to the office, where he
found the doctor hadn’t made very complete
arrangements. Still he was a busy doctor,
and things were fixed up all right and the
patient duly tucked into bed. Later the
matron arrived, asked the usual questions,
glanced at the note of 'introduction, smiled
and passed on. And nothing happened—no
doctor came, no anything. But at nine
o’clock that night a terribly agitated sur-
geon burst in. “Good Heavens, man,” he
said —“how did you get here? I’ve beeu
pursuing you all over the town.” “Why,
where am I?” Mr. Melrose asked —“isn’t
this St. Luke’s?” “No,” said the doctor;
“this is St.” and he mentioned another
of the Saints. Maybe the taxi-driver thought
one saint was as good as another, so took his
passenger to the only saint he happened to
know.
What part of Australia’s art world have
the hands of Julian Ashton not helped to
mould? In her
girlhood, Mrs.
Vi Eyre, one
of Sydney’s
first-rank Arts
and Crafters,
studied with
him at the
Sydney Art
School. Then,
of course, her
ambition was
to paint the
great Aus-
tralian pi c-
ture; but mar-
riage with Hal
Eyre, cartoon-
ist on the old
“T e 1 egraph,”
inter vened.
Now Mrs.
Eyre concen-
trates on pot-
tery, and this
year many a home and garden are the richer
by her frog and native-bear pieces. One
senses a real feeling for the anatomy of her
bush subjects in the clever modelling of the
frogs that live at the bottom of her flower
mugs, and in the wise fluffy bears that
blink on her book-ends. Photo by Judith
Fletcher.
If you read your Bible you will remember
that John the Baptist ate locusts and honey.
But how many of us know that the locust is
the name of a long, narrow bean of honey
sweetness that grows on a wide-spreading
tree ? Of this variety is the tree in the
ground of Burdekin House, so secretary
Carlotta Doyle told this Letter, wherefore
it is the John the Baptist tree. On Thurs-
day night the tree and the courtyard which
it dominates sparkled with many-colored
electrics and lanterns, while, seated at little
green tables, women in spreading or trailing
frocks ruffled, ruched and befrilled till the
illusion of bustles was created, played bridge
or gossiped over the ice-cold claret cup of
the club’s own brewing. Many of the ladies
wore their hair powdered and dressed in
the fashion of a favorite ancestor, for this
was a gathering of the Women Pioneers’
Club, and the levee was in honor of Gover-
nor Phillip. One girl, in white organdie
slipping off the shoulders in a white-frilled
bcrthe, the skirt a shimmering cascade of
white frills, suggested a belle of Macquarie’s
day. Carlotta Doyle, slim within black
tulles, buoyant and spreading, and the
society’s president, Mrs. W. A. Lingham,
received the guests, among whom were Dame
Eadith Walker, Mrs. John Bales, sporting
some handsome Maltese laees, the Frank
Lambs, Dr. Stephen and Mrs. A. B. Wil-
kinson, a descendant of Governor King.
Kelso King proposed “Governor Phillip,”
while the crowded dining-room knew a
moment’s impressive silence, and the portrait
of Governor Phillip looked down from above
the mantelpiece, perhaps a little glad to
fihd himself so cosy and so honored among
friends. Across the way his statue stands
on a pedestal; and all day he is passed by
a hurrying city that has forgotten the man
who founded it —a city mostly too eager
about its own concerns to even read the
inscription on the monument.
The Archibald Prize suffers a little from
General De Presh, too. When J.F.A. put
aside a sum for the purpose he figured on
an annual harvest of £400; but between
them the boom and the Perpetual Trustee Co.
brought it up to £592 in 1929. This year not
quite £450 will go to John Longstaff, whose
fine portrait of Archibald himself, by the
way, will this month be added to the Archi-
bald Gallery on the first floor of The Bul-
letin’s new home. This is a permanent
show of some of the paper’s best drawings
over 50 years, and is open to the public
without charge.
Jean Cheriton is back at Doone, after a
month in hospital, and a mountain of flowers
is on her doorstep every morning. Next
week she will finish convalescing under the
eye of Lady Game, who has had son Philip
on her hands lately, after appendix treatment.
What does it feel like when, in the
years afterwards, yourself almost unremem-
bered, you watch another take your records?
This Letter has just had a chance to find
that out, too, from Nigel Barker, nearly 25
years ago the wonder-boy of Sydney Univer-
sity. He put up four sprinting records, and
they stood from 22 to 24 years. Then Carl-
ton took some, Golding the others. Nigel,
still as active as a panther, happened to be
on hand when Golding won his first, and
the crowd stared at a middle-aged unknown
springing over the barrier and warmly shak-
ing the winner’s hand. Then the name went
round—“ Nigel Barker.” And Nigel says the
cheer that followed brought a bigger lump
to his throat than any the cheers of the old
days could ever bring.
A wedding fixture for March which is
talked of is that of Winifred Owen, of
Wollongong, to Edward Macarthur-Onslow,
of Macquarie Grove, Camden.
Queensland’s say so :
The “Back to the Horse” procession, in which
Premier Moore, Godfrey Morgan, Mayor Greene
and others took a leading part, caused much interest
in Brisbane. The Royal National Association spon-
sored the show in which 60'0 horses and 200 vehicles
figured. Kingsford Smith arrived from London on
the same afternoon, but flew straight on to Sydney,
so the two methods of transport did not meet.
From Rangoon comes news of the wedding of
Lilian C. Cannan, daughter of the J. K. Cannans,
of Kura, Cheliner, Brisbane, to Ernest Bain, of
Burma. The bride was one of Brisbane’s younger
set; she is a sister of Mrs. C. B. Withy. The knot was
tied in Rangoon Cathedral and the bridal dress was
of magnolia satin, with veil of magnolia tulle. Mrs.
H. Marsh was matron of honor in green and pink
floral ninon.
The first day of the Q.T.C.’s Australia Day meet-
ing was held in brilliant sunshine. Mrs. J. T.
Bell was in wine-toned crepe de Chine; Mrs. Sizer
favored powder blue; Mrs. N. F. Maegroarty was
in cherry and mastic; Mrs. Lemhase (Rockhamp-
ton) chose white voile; Mrs. R. Sword (Long-
reach) displayed a paisley pattern in navy; Sheila
Logan chose cornflower blue; Audrey Coldham was
in cornflower and white; Mrs. B. O. Bell (Aroo)
wore painted mariette in amber and flame; pale
and dark greens were combined in Jean White’s gown.
On the final day Mrs. Isaac Moore, Mrs. M. Ryan
and Ella O’Shea had teas on the committee-room
verandah. Mrs. E. Spence (Goondiwindi) was in
honey-toned chiffon; Mrs. J. J. Buchanan wore black
chenille fasonne, and Betty Power, her grandchild,
who was with her, sported patterned shantung;
Mrs. A. T. Noyes was in grey-patterned harebells;
Mrs. Robert Sword chose pink linen; Nell Cole
wore brown and red tartan crepe de Chine; Mrs.
A. R. Menzies chose blue and grey; Mrs. George
Webster wore black, and daughter Dorothy, green
and white; Zoe Erie wore blue and white; Jeanette
Fullarton was in red-, black- and white-patterned
lawn; and Peggy Bell chose ivory.
Mrs. Brunton Stephens, the widow of Queensland’s
distinguished poet is dead at 86. Born in
Kingstown, Dublin, she came to Australia over 60
years ago. She was the first woman to teach needle-
work in Queensland State schools. It was at the
Normal School, Brisbane, that she met her future
husband; they lived at Ashgrove after their mar-
riage, then moved to Wickham-terrace and finally
to Water-street west, where the family have lived
for nearly 50 years. Mrs. Stephens’s sister, Mrs.
J. A. Clarke, and her brother, Robert Donaldson, of
Coogee, late member for Tumut (N.S.W.), and some-
time Protector of Aborigines, survive her.
At St. Philip’s, Tiaro, Donald Dunstan married
Phyllis Fullarton. The bride, who was given away
by her mother, was in ivory mariette and broid-
ered tulle veil. Dorothy Fullarton ’maided in pale
green satin. The party was at the bride’s home,
and the ’moon rises on the Northern Rivers (N.S.W.).
Thomas Huxley and Mary Joyce Shilliday were
made one in St. Andrew’s, Warwick. The bride
was given away by her father; she wore oyster-
silk lace with a cut tulle veil. Lorna Huxley and
Dorothy Shilliday ’maided in coral silk lace.
Lorna Gibson, daughter of John Gibson, of Hamil-
ton, announces her engagement to Kenneth Ward, of
Cairns.


Notice.
is hereby given that all dogs, pigs,
* ’ goats and poultry trespassing on Crown
Lease Pastoral No. 1608, formerly No. 1527,
comprising Block No. 693, or any other lands
the property of Puttapa Pastoral Co., Ltd.,
will be destroyed.
Missing Friends.
DOBERT S. HYLAND, late of Apollo
Bay, Victoria, is requested to communi-
cate with CHARLES STEWART, Stock
Agent, Colac. Victoria, when he will hear
something to his advantage.
JOHN CHARLES McKNIGHT (some-
J times known as Charles Lear), formerly
of Dunedin, New Zealand, is requested to
communicate with IRWIN & IRWIN,
Solicitors, Dunedin.
pOSNETTE.—If THOMAS HENRY
COSNETTE, who was last seen by his
brother Daniel Lennon Cosnette in Janu-
ary, 1908, and at that time believed to be a
steward aboard the s.s. Lusitania (son of
Thomas Henry Cosnette and Jane Elizabeth
Cosnette, formerly Ryan, who lived at South-
port, Lancaster, England), and who was born
on the 16th day of October, 1883, at 15
Hampson Street, Walton-on-the-Hill, Lan-
caster, will communicate v/ith the under-
signed, he will hear of something to his
advantage.—DUNN & BAKER, Solicitors,
Castle House, Exeter, England.
“Has Capitalism Failed?”
This question is put and answered in last
Thursday’s “Barrier Miner,’’ which compares
the past with the present.
This big-souled newspaper, published every day
for over 40 years at Broken Hill (population
27,000), serves all the people of the Far West,
city and country. They don’t want the coastal
city newspapers—don’t need them.
If you advertise anything, take advice about
this medium for the Far West, city and
country people both.
0&O HOUSEHOLD PACES
> SOCIAL NOTES-ALL STATES.''
LAOYS LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD.
,i Etc. Etc. Etc. it
THE AUSTRALASIA^
ON ALL STATES €»
;ot
Let the Perth
Wmtg
Make the New Year a
Happy and Prosperous
One for You.
Keen advertisers have found the big
western weekly most valuable coverage
at minimum cost, for the “Sunday
Times” is popular in every part of
the West. It is the outstanding
example of progress, and during recent
months has increased sales by over
4000 copies weekly.
Let it be your Sunday salesman,
effectively spreading your message in
all directions, and reaching the people
who have the purchasing power.
Prosperity for you during 1932 by
advertising in the weekly with the
circulation of a daily.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800for [?]
Buckley e-Nunn, [?]
[?]
The Australian National Games, which
began on Saturday at the Melbourne Cricket
Club’s ground, were blessed by the presence
of Primiuister Lyons, who dropped green
ribbons, from which dangled a medallion or
rosette, over the heads of the winners and
runners-up in each event. The athletes
made a good showing in their preliminary
parade, and the fair sex was represented m
many, branches of sport. There were at
least a dozen trundling bikes; sprinting and
jumping were the long suits of others, and
several lined up with the swimmers. The
women weren’t a very statuesque collection.
In the matter of legs the Adonises quite
outshone the Dianas. The only touch of
femininity in the attire of the girl competi-
tors was the colored bandeaux that tethered
their locks. When not in action some of
them wore most attractive suits of velvet
cut on pyjama lines, maroon, green or blue,
of whatever were the colors of the States
they represented.
The Japanese tennis-players, Satoli,
Nunoi and Harada, spent a week-end in
Melbourne as the guests of Norman Brookes
at his home, Cliff House, at Frankston. On
the Sabbath several folk were bidden to
take tea there, Cynthia and Hersey Brookes
assisting their father in entertaining in a
garden of wonderful flowers and shady trees.
Chat and tennis filled in the time. Among
the guests were George Fairbairn and his
lady, the Russell Grimwades and the Angus
Robertsons.
The G.-G.’s wife, as president, was in the
chair at the Red Cross Society’s yearly
tallying. A black hat wreathed with a
curling white feather topped her well-
cut fawn suit. It was reported that the
1600 junior branches have a membership of
90,000 boys and girls, and the 464 senior
branches can muster 19,000 members and
39 volutary-aid companies.
Mayoress Dyer very early in her reign
entertained the women journalists of the
city at five-o’clock tea. The reception-room
at the Town Hall with its green draperies
and upholstery were set off by masses of
mixed blossoms and bowls of pink and white
water-lilies. Mrs. Dyer’s personal touch
was manifested in charming white and green
organdie cloths and serviettes, matching
china and tall crystal and green glasses. A
well-cut frock of ivory georgette with a
removable cape and tiny kiltings on the
skirt, topped by a cornflower-blue hat of
finely-woven straw, was worn by the hostess,
who thanked the press ladies for their
interest in her schemes for the fostering of
music and art. A small picture by one of
the modern French painters occupied a
place of honor on Mrs. Dyer’s writing-table.
An interesting show, the first of a series
to be continued monthly, was staged by the
Arts and Crafts Society on Friday, when
the work of the society’s weaver members
was exhibited. Miss Butchard is represented
by some beautiful woollen tapestry for up-
holstering chairs. Nora Gurdon’s fancy
runs to rugs of Eastern design, with rich
splashes of color. Beautiful silk and linen
goods, scarves and pochettes are featured,
this section being contributed to by Dorothy
Wager, Joan McKenzie and Jessica Booth,
of Sydney. A feature of the show is a
variety of woollen suit lengths of very attrac-
tive appearance.
The garden of Mr. and Mrs. Oswald
Syme’s home at Mt, Macedon was the stage
for a performance of Isabel Handley’s
verse play “Penelope’s Elopement,” to swell
the funds of the C.W.A. The setting was
perfectly appropriate and the weather was
in sympathy. Several hundred folk rolled
up and were refreshed with tea. The
rfiummers, who wore mid-Victorian attire,
were Mrs. Frank Apperly, Hettie Fuer-
man, Barbara Elford, Catherine Boyd,
Arthur. Davies and Ivy Macnamara. In
the audience were the Irvine lady and the
Mitchell lady, president of the C.W.A.
Mrs. Andrew Cunningham assembled her
friends in the banquet hall of the Victoria
to drink a farewell brew on the eve of her
return to England. In between chat Roy
Shepherd extracted soulful sounds from the
concert grand piano. The hostess said her
good-byes in draperies of black chiffon over
pale pink, the touch of pink being repeated on
her black hat. Among the guests were the
Misses Cunningham from Mt. Macedon. Mrs.
Archie Currie, the Oswald Symes, Mr. and
Mrs. A. Embling, Kitty Currie and Mrs.
R. G. Casey.
The Ladies’ Amateur Swimming League
entertained visiting women swimmers with
afternoon-tea and chat at The Palms,
Henley Lawns.
Those Australian painters who go to
the Mediterranean could find brighter
color a lot nearer home. Anything bluer
than the sea at Mornington these sunny,
days the Chatterer has never seen, on
canvas or anywhere else. It’s a lot bluer
than sapphires, and shades away at the edge
to a beautiful jade green, with a selvedge
of white where the wavelets kiss the golden
sands. No more shall “Lido” blue stray on
to this Page. “Mornington” or “Mordialloc”
will convey the idea of the hue a lot more
convincingly.
The Isaac Isaacs lady, who for many
years was a member of the committee of
the District Nursing Society, looked in at
the After Care Home of the society while
passing through Melbourne on her way to
the Apple Isle. Mayoress Dyer shared in an
official welcome, both ladies being handed
posies. Greetings were spoken by the presi-
dent of tbe society, Mrs. Henderson. Among
other guests was Mrs. F. E. Loxton, of
Brisbane.
St. John’s, Toorak, saw the welding of
bonds between Hazel, only daughter of P. C.
Grosser, of Hawthorn, and Charles, second
son of the J. Olivers, of Caulfield. Creamy
white satin was worn by the bride, whose
tulle veil had just a hint of pink beneath
its whiteness. Her cousin, Truda Kendrick,
and two little trainbearers supplied a con-
trast in attire of cosmos pink. The kiddies,
who carried fluffy chiffon muffs, made a
charming picture in long-frilled frocks, poke
bonnets and mittens. There were rejoicings
at the Grosvenor. •
There was joining of Western District
families when Sibyl Mary Denyer, a
daughter of the E. G. Denyer couple,
of Balmoral, Kerahg, said “I will’ to
Frank St. Keverne Uren, only son of
Mrs. Frank Uren, of St. Keverne, Hamil-
ton. The knot-tying was at St. John s
Church, Camberwell, tile bride, who had two
attendant maids in powder-blue upholstery
and matching hats, wearing a gown of ivory
satin, her Honiton-lace veil being mounted
on pink tulle, the tint of the water-lilies she
held.
Claudina Callaway, who was handed over
by her father, H. G. Callaway, to Lieutenant
F. Ross James, R.A.N., at the Congrega-
tional Church, Collins-street, carried the
now fashionable sheaf of magnolias against
a gown of the same tint of satin, over which
descended clouds of Brussels lace. Dr.
Sylvia Young and Margaret Long, of
Bendigo, were attended in pastel-green
chiffon with which were contrasted deep
red roses. The after-rejoicings were at the
Windsor.
Evelyn, younger daughter of D. C. Mc-
Grath, M.H.R. for Ballarat, and Mrs.
McGrath, was wed on Saturday to Albert
J. Glazner, also of Ballarat, the knot-tying
taking place at the Methodist Chui’ch, Oak-
leigh. The bride wore creamy satin, with
veil of Limerick lace. A trio of. ’maids
attended her in frocks of tourmaline-pink
organdie, with pale green hats. There was
also a small trainbearer.
Miss F. Iv. M. Dumaresq, who lias lately
retired from the position of headmistress of
the Church of England Girls’ Grammar
School in Bendigo', which she held since
1922, has taken charge of St. Andrew’s
College, East Kcw. This school for girls
was founded by the Rev. J. T. Lawton on
somewhat unorthodox lines. There was no
corporal punishment, and no cramming, and
the pupils were to a large extent a self-
governing community, the principal being
their guide rather than their ever-dominat-
ing authority. A pupil from another school,
meeting one from St. Andrew’s, said, “Oh,
you go to the. school where you can do as
you like?” “Oh, no,” replied the St. Andrew’s
kid, “that is not so ; but we do like what we
do.” The more schools like that the better.
Miss Dumaresq is an M.A. of Melbourne
Uni., and holds the Diploma of Education
of the Bedford College for Women, London.
Her practical experience of teaching was
gleaned in England at several schools, and
she came back to Australia to be acting-head
of the Presbyterian Ladies’ College, Perth,
followed by her appointment to the
C.E.G.G.S. at Bendigo.
This is Frangoise Mores, the French
violinist, who
is making a
hurried visit
to this country
to fill in time
before a tour
of Egypt,
where she is
very popular,
i n Marc li.
Md 11 e. will
tuck her Gag-
liano fi dd 1 e
under her
chin at the
Assembly Hall
on Saturday
night; she has
already given
a couple of
recitals in
Sydney. The
billy is to be
boiled at several parties in her honor.
Marjorie Lawrence, of Geelong, who,
according to cabled reports, made a success-
ful appearance as Elizabeth in “Tann-
hauser” at the Monte Carlo Opera House,
has been studying in Paris with Madame
Dinh Gilly. and prior to going abroad was
a pupil of Ivor Boustead. She made a
country concert tour with pianist Katie
Lid die, of Melbourne, before she went over-
seas.
While Australian impresarios ransack
Italy for opera-singers, Italian directors of
opera are discovering the talents of Aus-
tralians. A Victorian, Lawrence Power,
was recently engaged for a long series of
leading roles at the San Carlo Opera House,
Naples, which is second only to La Scala,
of Milan, in international repute. Mr.
Power, who has been abroad some years,
has Italianised his name, which on the bills
is Lorenzo Poerio. He is a tenor who came
into the limelight by winning a competition
in Australia.
Dr. Marion Phillips, who has died in
London, was an ex-student of the Pres-
byterian. Ladies’ College, Melbourne, and
a sister of M. M. Phillips, this city’s Master
in Equity. Dr. Phillips, whose D.Sc. was
conferred by London Uni. for her bo'ok “A
Colonial Democracy,” graduated at Mel-
bourne Uni. before a research scholarship
took her to the Loudon School of Economics.
Pneumonia following an attack of ’flu
carried off Adelaide Allan, for some years
honorary treasurer of the Lyceum Club.
She was a daughter of the late G. L. Allans,
of this city, and a sister of George and Fred
Allan, of the music firm, other members of
the family being Dr. E. Buller Allan and
Miss Winifred Allan. Much of Miss
Allan’s time was devoted to the Queen Vic-
toria Hospital, and she was an active mem-
ber of the Arts and Crafts Society.
Throughout Australia golfers will mourn
the sudden passing of Gladys Hay, who died
of pneumonia last week. Miss Hay, who was
a daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Henry
Hay, of the Collendia squattage, at Corowa,
was captain of the associates of the Met-
ropolitan Golf Club, and won the Vic. ladies’
championship in i 920 and 1921, and the
Australian championship in 1922. In 1930
she journeyed to Scotland with Mona
McLeod, playing in the “Eve” foursomes;
with them were the Tasmanian Barclay
twins.
The latest recruit to the nursing profession
is Joan, only daughter of the late Prof.
W. G. Duflield, of the Observatory at Can-
berra, who is qualifying at Melbourne Hospi-
tal. Mrs. Duflield and her two sons and
Joan, who have been in the Federal Capital
for the vacation, returned to Melbourne last
week.
Artist Hardy Wilson, formerly of Sydney
but now settled on the land in Tasmania, is
at present quite the most arresting figure
in Melbourne.
Mrs. Russell Jackson, principal of Nettey
College, St. Kilda, has acquired the small
boys’ college of Christ Church, St. Kilda,
and is installing Archie Lumsden as vice-
principal there. Mr. Lumsden is a retired
State-school headmaster.
One of the most talented of our young
musical composers is Peggy Glanville-llicks,
pictured here.
She is only 19,
a pupil of the ,
Albert - street
C o n., where
she is study-
ing the piano
under W alde-
m a r Seidel
and composi-
tion unde r
Fritz Ilart.
As a competi-
tor for the
Clarke scholar-
ship, she sub-
mitted a group
of eight of
her composi-
tio n s which
included pre-
ludes for the
piano, a
violin piece, a
choral number
and an orchestral work. One of her
choral works has been performed in
this city. It is the intention of Prof. Ber-
nard Ileinze to have a programme of her
works broadcast through 3LO, and he
himself will play her violin solo. . Frank
Hutchens, of the N.S.W. Con., promises to
make some of her compositions known in
the Harbor City.
South Australia warms up:—
Fifteen times since Christmas has the mercury
topped the 100, and yet the young people
made January and February the months for matri-
mony! Certainly they have the weddings in the
evenings, but to start off bravely motoring to Mel-
bourne and Sydney must be a hot trip. One young
coupie had an unfortunate experience last week.
They left the city about 11 p.m. in their beautiful
car for Melbourne, but when they got up in the
hills, remote from everything and everybody,' some-
thing went wrong with the engine and it refused
to budge. A couple driving home through the.
hills'at 3 a.m. came upon the pretty bride sitting by
the roadside and the unfortunate bridegroom trying
to make the wheels go round.
Our League of Nations Union is making its little
effort. On Wednesday afternoon Mrs. Carlile Mc-
Donnell (vice-president) gave an at-home at the
Wentworth Cafe, North-terrace, to discuss arrange-
ments for a badge day. Lady Hore-Ruthven was
present and made a special appeal. Mrs. McDon-
nell presented her with a lovely bouquet that toned
with her pink and yellow floral chiffon gown, with
which she wore a beige straw hat.
A smart wedding was celebrated at St. Andrew’s,
Walkerville, when Dr. Sydney Cocks, of Mount
Barker, and Beatrice, younger daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. A. A. Alarkwell, were married by Canon R. P.
Hewgill. The reception, at the South Australian
Hotel was a very cheery, affair. Both the bride
and her bridesmaid, sister-Aladge, looked charming,
the former in soft white satin and the latter in;
white triple chiffon, with a sea-green straw and'
satin hat wreathed with ospreys that gave the only
touch of color. Young medrcoes and their wives were:
well represented, among : them being Dr. and Mrs.i
lan Hamilton, who recently returned from England.
Commander and Mrs. R. C. Warden motored from
Mount Barker for the ceremony. •
A wedding down for next week is that of Arnold
Rowley, of Meadows, S. Aus., to. Ada Charlton, sisteii
of the famous swimmer. St. Philip’s, Sydney, will
be the scene. i
Harry Blackburn, of the Federated Malay States,
after a visit to his home town, Adelaide, left last
week for Sydney, where he will spend the remainder
of his furlough. His sister, Margaret Blackburn,
who is still in Adelaide, joins him later.
Mr. and Mrs. W. W. McGregor gave a party and
dance at their residence, Kent Town, for Miss
Morna Dobbie and Dr. Creagh Smeaton, whose
wedding takes place next week at St. Andrew’s,
Walkerville. The floral decorations. were lovely,
and the young hostess was frocked in pale pink lace.
The bride-to-be wore a white lace toilette.
Westralia’s mail-bag:—
Dr. Ruth Anderson flew home from Adelaide, - the
last lap of her holiday jaunt to the Eastern States
and M.L.
Slim brunette Doreen O’Hara is off to the Big
Smoke by the Mongolia. Her mother plans to go as
far as Colombo. .
Monty Rolland and George Kelsall became life
partners on a summery evening in St. Andrew's
Church. The bride, who was given away by her
mother, was wrapped in white satin, Brussels lace
being inserted into the corsage, the sleeves long
and tight-fitting and a train attached to the waist-
line. The veil was of beautiful old Linierick lace.
Norma Rolland ’maided in ivory georgettes. Her
little coatee was ’broidered with crimson beads.
A fluffy feather tucked in her hat and her satin
slippers matched her bouquet of red roses. Mrs.
R. A. Rolland received the guests at her home in
Walker-avenue.
Joan, elder daughter of Mr. J. B. Newberry, of Ned-
lands, has plighted a troth with Tony Taylor, who
ha,ils from Walwalling, Pingelly.
Frank Sears, of Dalgety’s, is not the confirmed
bachelor that his friends possibly thought him. The
lady who has accepted his diamonds is Peggy
Paterson, of North Perth.
Ellen and Margaret Mulcahy had an au revoir
morning-tea for Mrs. Barney lviernan, who boards
the Manunda this week with her offspring to join
her better half, who has been transferred to Mel-
bourne. The drawing-room of the Palace Hotel was
decked with pink gladioli. Ellen was in a pleated
frock of pink shantung. Margaret wore blue and
a jaunty white hat; Mrs. Kiernaii. chose flowered
maroeain with cream reliefs about the neck-line.
Tassie’s tale:—
Mrs. Mclntyre and her two married daughters,
Mrs. Ross-Reynolds and Mrs. Fred Grant, are off
to Colombo in the Moldavia, where they will meet
Admiral and Mrs. Nares (she was. Lena Mclntyre,
one. of the" Speck’s prettiest girls of some years
back).
District Naval Officer and Mrs. Symonds will be
leaving the Speck for Adelaide in the autumn.
Another impending departure is that of the Stanley
Limbricks, from Launceston. Mr. Limbrick has been
appointed lecturer in economics and political science
at the Perth University.
Mrs. McCutcheon, who has been visiting her
brother, Mr. Evelyn Ward, during the last few
months, left in the Mongolia for her home in South
Sea. Before departing she. entertained a number of
friends at the Chaucer tearooms. Mrs. McCutcheon
was one of the many Hobart girls who have mar-
ried naval men ; her husband was in the Vindictive,
of Zeebrugge fame.
Mrs. Stourton manipulated the teacups at the
Lyceum Club in honor of the Misses Dorothy and
Noi'u Bolitho, who have come from the Cold Country
to see their sister, Mrs. Donald Cameron, who lives
at Fordon, Nile.
Cadburys’ annual meeting of sales managers came
off in the Speck this year, and manager and staff
foregathered at Hadley’s for dinner, where a presen-
tation was made to the retiring manager for Vic-
tbria, Mr. W. H. Clark, who has put in over 40
years’ service with the company. Most of the
menfolk had their wives or daughters with them.
The T.A.J.C. held its Cup meeting at Elwick
in glorious weather. Dr. Lindsay Miller presented
the cup trophy to Mr. Russell Ellis, the owner of
Dacelo. Mrs. Sam Cox came with her mother, Mrs.
Tho's. Lyons. Mrs. Vernon Duckett (Melb.) and
her sister Mrs. Sampson looked very smart in their
small hats —“like dots over the eye,” as they have
been called.
Archbishop Hayden has returned to his flock after
a long trip abroad. A welcoming service was held
in his honor at St. Mary’s Cathedral.
Betty Giblin, the tall, blue-eyed daughter of Dr.
and Mrs. W. W. : Giblin, is off to England in a
few weeks. She goes with Mrs. Alexander, Bruni
Island, and will make her headquarters with her
sister, Mrs.Lethbridge.
The engagement is announced of Enid, only
daughter of Dr. H. T. Postle, and Cecil, second son
of Sedntor and Mrs. J. D. Millen.


TOUR DOCTOR'S FIRST QUESTION
mi
DONT NEGLECT
CONSTIPATION
Once yon try Figsen you will
know what thousands have al-
ready discovered that FIGSEN
CORRECTS CONSTIPATION.
Figsen is easy to take—it does not
purge or gripe—it does not tend
to promote the “laxative habit.”
Figsen assists the bowels to per-
form their natural function. It is
equally effective, equally safe for
young or old, strong or delicate.
Figsen is a good friend which
should always be with you.
w
Your Chemist
sells and
recommends
©
FIGSEN
FOB CONSTIPATION
Sm
Rift
arrrrru
mu
2E
g r
Via
AUCKLAND
IM.Z.
SUVA and HONOLULU to
Vancouver. . . This is the attrac-
tive trans-Pacific route of British
vessels of the C-A Line.
Each of these ports has its indi-
vidual charm-—all offer the
traveller unlimited possibilities
for enjoyment.
For further ‘particulars apply
Union S. S. Co., Ltd.
247, George Street, Sydney.
r '9 Willi tan Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
s;.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
One-third of Queensland’s
Entire Population .
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
ofhe (Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
6 8 °/o
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary.
* * #
Fou can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from:
QThe Brisbane Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F 3906.
London ' Agent*: H. C. rjRELLIER,'’ 107
,1 . - Fleet-street..
“No Reason Can Be Assigned.”
WHEREIN RANDOLPH BEDFORD
TELLS A TALE OF A SHOW THAT
WOULDN’T BOOM.
THE Street of Magic in the city of
Sydney has not the air of Wall-street
or Throgmorton-street; but lying is
a hardy perennial that can bloom in a con-
servatory or flourish in a brickfield. There
are so many fertilisers ready for the farmer
of lies. There are newspaper offices, com-
mission agents, men with schemes and men
of business, and all their relations born
under Mercury; theatrical speculators seek-
ing angels, to speculate with the angels’
money; and, triumph of all the lying
ages, the theatrical press-agent. He lies
like a gasmeter, a co-respondent and a fallen
tree, jointly and severally. He lias long
exhausted the tale of the-actress who lost
her diamonds ;. of the prima - donna who
travels with her mother and is likely to be
brought before the Industrial Arbitration
Court because she will not pay the Profes-
sional Mothers’ wages award; and of the
actor who, commanded to play the flute at
Windsor Castle, ate gracious peanuts with
his most gracious Majesty. The cruder sort
of press-agent disguises himself as a human
being and then obstructs the traffic by offer-
ing five pounds to the Sherlock Holmes who
first discovers him; nothing so clumsy entered
the publicity programme of Egbert McHere-
ward.
Yet McHereward had a task that made
liis little head ache in all its bones. Ofte.of
the most amorphous of all the shapeless-
nesses known as “revues,” the cost of pro-
duction of “Oh ! Fie ! Fie !” made some-
thing like a run urgent. Itself had not a
redeeming feature ; but a redeeming feature,
all Australian, had been found for the
imported foolishness. That redeeming fea-
ture was Honeysuckle Penny, a cheerful
pretty girl who had. danced in her mother’s
arms before she was'short-coated. She was
all lightness, grace and charm, ? and, - ; wheh
she danced, her plumpness was. for gotten and
her other name was Thistledown. Her
plumpness was charming, too; for it was
merely the sweet flesh of a good doer cover-
ing the muscles of an athlete. The bosom
was the bosom of a woman, the hips the
hips of a boy; from the bust she dwindled
symmetrically to the curve of the waist-line.
The line from the shoulders to the ankle was
the line of the athletic ideal —the human
wedge. Dancing and the sea had given her
perfection of form, carriage and action ; her
beauty was of the open-air, and when she
danced on the sand before shooting the surf
in that divine air and divine setting she had
a beauty that stage illusion could never give.
She was the only thing in “Oh ! Fie ! Fie !”
that the judicious could see without quoting
the name of the revue. Many of these came
to the theatre in time for her dancing and
left when her turn was finished; and the
great public, unable to appreciate this pearl
in the great mass of ancient oyster, care-
fully stayed away.
So a .costly, failure was here, with its one
redeeming feature so discounted by >the sur-
rounding , stupidity that most people .could
not value her ; and Mcfiereward’s-task was
to find such publicity) for Honeysuckle-Penny
that the populace should ’ forget the revue
and see only they artist. Hereward’s little
head ached in all its bones.
“What can you do besides dancifig?” he
asked Honeysuckle, himself at a dead end.
“I can swim.”
“Everybody swims. Wait a minute —could
you drown?”
“Me! Drown? Don’t be silly. I love the
sea to swim in—not to drown in. I wouldn’t
want to drown if I was ninety-six, and I’m
only twenty-three.”
“Not really drown. Could you get out in
the surf a bit more than usual and then be
saved?”
“Not; too far. Sharks. And I don’t trust
these lifesavers altogether. They’re fine
fellows, but suppose they missed ?”
“We wouldn’t have the usual lifesaver.
Your ; partner can swim.”
“Not lialf as well as I can, Victor can’t—
although he is passable.”
“Better and better. At the finish you
could swim round‘ and save him.”
“’M—that’s' all right. But suppose a
shark turns round first?”
“Oh, forget sharks. It will be all right and
it’s the only chance of the publicity we
want: Just think of it in all the papers—
‘Brave rescue by a girl. Honeysuckle Penny
and the Pacific. Famous dancer saves her
professional partner in the surf.’ And then
your picture; and what sort of a reception
when you come on that night? We’ll organise
it in advance.”
“All right, then. But we’ll have to rehearse
it—there’s a lonely bit of beach beyond
Deowhy.”
“Rehearse it there. But we’ll do it at
Manly on a Sunday when the big crowd’s
there, and get it in Monday’s papers as a
good kick-off for the week. And I’ll have a
movie camera there, too.”
, “Righto!” said Honeysuckle, lapsing to
the Australian language. “Pliope the sharks
give us a "square go.”
On a lonely little beach they rehearsed the
Great,Rescue Act. Honeysuckle Penny and
her partner Victor did their spectacular work
in the • surf, and then Victor ventured fur-
ther. and .threw his hands up, and registered
himself <as, “in difficulties”; and into “the
surf disappeared Honeysuckle, her beautiful
legs golden-browned by the sun and sea so
that they were like the legs of an ivory
carving which has won color from the sun-
light of a century, mellowed in passing
through the stained-glasswindow of a church.
McHereward stood on a lofty dune and
shouted, instructions, they never heard ;, but
Honeysuckle and Victor and the Pacific
Ocean knew their parts, and Honeysuckle
brought the apparently-fainting Victor to the
shore, and knelt by him on the sand.
“Fine!” shouted McHereward, running to
them ; “couldn’t be better.”
“I like the Pacific to work with,” said
Honeysuckle pertly. “He’s, a great actor,
that Pacific. Didn’t fluff once, and never
missed a cue.”
“The property-man gave us real salt
water,” gasped Victor, “and I swallowed a
lot of it. Too much realism. I didn’t
like it much; couldn’t help thinking of
sharks. A shark’s no gentleman and he’d
bite a man behind his back and think nothing
of it.” . . .
- “No, sharks,” sqid Honeysuckle, squeezing
the last; of the Pacific out of her hair ; “the
call .was only for principals.”. t
“Great!” said McHereward. ■ “We’ll put
it over on Sunday.” A .> - <
“The better the day the better the act,”
Honeysuckle : remarked flippantly as she
walked off to ‘her dressing tent. “This
matinee will be a riot.”
That Sunday white sunlight flooded yel-
low beaches, white surf, billows aerated to
green', blue water, and purple depth of sea.
By thousands the black, blue, red, pink,
green, grey bodies on white or sunburned
legs that represented men, women and child
surfers dotted, and blackened in groups, the
beaches of Sydney’s ocean-front. Scarcely
broken by a rock for a thousand miles east-
ward, the quiet ocean-touched the shallows
and' broke in long rollers upon the yellow
sand, their-rhythm majestically slow. The
worshippers of the sea by their thousands
laughed and splashed and swam seaward to
make landfall again on the- crests of the
breakers, and only one policeman was there
to prove that the Golden Age is not yet
here, that some must work when others play,
and that there are still thieves on the earth
and in the waters under the earth.
The policeman was a grave and > moody
man with black whiskers, and he and Mc-
Hereward were apparently, the only two on
that beach /who wore the clothes of civilisa-
tion and covered their legs in the Mid-Vic-
torian manner.
McHereward, waiting for Honeysuckle
Penny and her partner, turned as he heard
the stir of admiration that liad‘come to
be Honeysuckle’s due. She had a royal pro-
gress to the surf, the surfers on the beach
making a broken line for her progress,, and
the cinema-man began to shoot. She danced
down the beach, a thing so beautiful that, in
the admiration of her, sex was forgotten for
a moment —and that is beauty’s test. The
moody . policeman’s eyes adored her; light
upon her feet, with the energy that seems
without effort, the dryad reached the edge of
the lace of a retreating wave, became in a
flash a water nymph, and threw herself into
a comber of lettuce green. A flash of sun-
browned ivory legs and Honeysuckle was one
with the , sea. The surfers watched her
shooting the breakers, with Victor attendant.
Victor spoke to her, and distanced her to
sea : then turned, facing the shore.
“Not far enough! Not far enough!”
shouted McHereward; and at last the police-
man, all his gravity returned, heard him.
“Not far enough !’’
“Leave him alone!” said the policeman.
“Mind your own busine&i!’’ snapped Mc-
Hereward, and shouted again. “Not far
enough!”
His gestures reached Victor, although his
voice did not. Unwillingly Victor shot a
further breaker; then gave the signal of
the arms thrown upward, and sank as
Honeysuckle, rising superbly on the surf,
disappeared to his' rescue.
“Stop yer yellin’ ‘Not far enough,’ ” said
the policeman. “D’ye want to drown the man?”
“You don’t understand.”
“The p’leeceman’s right,” '-interpolated a
little man dressed in faded - purple bathers,
a cherry-wood pipe and, an . old straw hat
whose brim had left thecrown, so that he
looked between sagging rim and crown as
if the hat were a vizored'helmet. “D’ye
want to drown the man?' Yer jellers of the
girl—that’s wliat !” r .
, And then the fool of the village raised the
cry. “Sharks!” •- •
Honeysuckle, gripping Victor, had reached
the fourth breaker shoreward, and at the
cry. taken up by hundreds of the fool’s
understudies, both Honeysuckle and the
rescued almost fainted. The life-savers ran
but to them, but, before-they could meet,
the Pacific, which‘had not been rehearsed
at that point, but a dozen miles further
north, came behind the frightened pair with
a gigantic wave, rushed Honeysuckle and
Victor and the lifesavers breathlessly for-
ward, threw them all upon the beach and
contemptuously left them.
Then the crowd moved as.one, and threat-
ened to smother these Whom the sea had
saved.
' “I want you,” said the policeman to Mc-
Hereward.
“Want me —what for?”
“You tried to. drown the young feller or
get him et by a shark or something.”
“So*’e did,” said the little man of the
vizored straw lmt. “Jellers o’ the girl, that’s
it; jellers o’ the girl.”
“You want me!” said McHereward indig-
nantly. “What for?”
“Insultin’ behavior—-might have caused
a death if I hadn’t been, here. The news-
papers would have said suicide, an’ ‘no
reason can be assigned for the„rash act.’ ”
“Nonsense!” interrupted ‘ Honeysuckle
fresh as Venus from the bath. “He insulted
nobody.”
“He told the young feller with you to so
further out,'and nearly had him drowned"”
“Don’t be -silly,” said Honeysuckle quite
disrespectful of the law. “It’s only a fake.
“I’m Honeysuckle Penny, the fanjous dancer,
and Victor’s my partner, and. Mr. Mctlere-
ward’s our press agent. We were only doing
a publicity stunt.”
“You’d better all get .away, then,” said
the moody policeman, lbsjjjg respect for all
of them as lie ordered, them off the beach
that seemed m a moment to become his
personal property. “Get away—l won’t have
any publicity stunts here'.”-
. McHereward felt that everybody, includ-
-IUS the defrauded lifesavers, was his per-
sonal enemy. He opened Ins'--month to
protest, but saw none but indignant and
menacing faces of men who knew that for
business he had sent others to danger while
staying in safety himself; lie saw the
policeman s black whiskers trembling with
the suppressed desire to arrest somebody—
ai.ld the eyes of the little man glaring through
®. traw aat-
>'by did you tell them it was a fake?”
iie (< !?» mai , o< l l Honeysuckle,
J- hadn t you’d have been pinched,
wouldn t, you l And you got the publicity,
McHereward almost wept at her stupidity.
“°w could I use it for newspapers now?
ove thousand people and Whiskers the
Black-faced Cop, and Straw-hat Willie to
contradict me? It’s all off.”
And won’t the film be-any good, either?”
No—-not here Might work it some-
whore dse—but it s a failure.”
Don t blame me, then,” said Honeysuckle.
Blame the Pacific Ocean for acting the
£° a . that ..was a great wave—like a
mi hion gallons of champagne. And I got
m Y, ad - anyhow.! They know who I am,”
said Honeysuckle - Penny. “I’ll dress and
en « T > e iCome?”
<<T , m " om S home.” said McHereward.
It s no good to. me.
Gloomily lie made his way to the ferry-
""hart. A boat cast off, as McHereward
covered half the distance to the berth; the
{ as * : g«ng-plank was hauled in and the ferry
“Ogan *_° m ?y e -. Eager to escape the scene
or. his • humiliation,;McHereward, the Fake,
i' a o for it leaped too short—and fell in.
. , e deckhands managed the real rescue
with a rope and- barked the shins of Mc-
Herewarfl in the process,
Sot the'publicity was won after all. Mon-
da L s papers had .the item—three .of them
as . a mere statement, of fact; the fourth
sa }?. : . ~ ' , ,
At Manly yesterday a passenger, who
S ave his name as McHereward, fell from the
wharf and was rescued by the deckhands of
Jr 0 f Balgow.ah. # It is believed
aa ,^. l^ c^™ e w*H’U_was intoxicated,
“ . wic . B ie,;.. was no good to the
management. Great is advertisement, but it
has hunts.
The Trumpeters.
The_ green is in the fields to-day
Where once the. warring armies trod,
And poppies -’neath- the crosses sway,
show That mem’ry’s green with God.
• ",
And near. beside-the : poppy host,
So sad-and slow,
In fragrant music “the Last Post”
The. trumpet flowers blow,
n.s.w. ~
JOHN R. ROBEBTS.


Wonderful Books for Every Man & Woman Posted Right to Your Door
Golden Passion,
By Juanita Savage.
Between its pages the thrill of a lifetime
of reading awaits you. Before your very
eyes fs unfolded a story of passion intn|ue
L vmmnce ’ Past you, in a breath-taking
parade sweeps one of the most beautiful,
yet unprincipled, women of all tunes-a
woman of intense fascination. Here you will
find a story of scarlft days, when a mighty
lover drank of life and love. Price, 7/6.
IVe pay postage.
Practical Birth Control.
Best and Authentic, 27-
Keeping Fit,
By Bernar McFadden.
KEEPING FIT is a complete introduction, to
the study of proper living. It not only gives
full instruction in exercise, eating, breathing,
etc., but also devotes numerous chapters to
commonsense treatment of such troubles as
asthma, constipation, heart disease, diabetes,
nerves tuberculosis, and many others. Cloth
bound; illustrated ; 226 pages; exercise chart.
Price. 10/-; postage, 6d. extra.
Companionate Marriage,
By Judge Ben B. Lindsey and
Wainwright Evans.
A remarkable exposure of college life in
America, and, trial marriages. Price, 15/-
We pay postage.
French Stories.
A new 90-page book of translations of French
stories, including a satirical illustrated story
of the famous Ride of Lady Godiva. Price, 3/-
Mustard Pot Annual, 1932.
Gayest, giddiest book of breezy stories arid
pictures yet published. Price, '!/-
Ginger Gar.
80 profusely illustrated pages of guy giggles
and jovial jests, a whirl of legs, lingerie and
girl. Price, 2/-
Mr. Giggers Goes to Heaven.
A Satire, by Douglas Massie.
A very remarkable novel in which a satirist
of the most pungent description lashes human-
ity with scorpions. He jeers at the horrible
respectability we call “Victoriani-m” and the
Sentimentality which oozes from Hollywood
to taint a weary world. No more remarkable
novel than this will be published. The book
is both a satire and a fantasy,, and although
the author can lash with his pen he can also
soothe and amuse. This is'.a very strange and
fascination and powerful novel, which every-
one should make a point of reading. Price,
7/6. Postage, 4d.
Oscar Wilde’s
SALOME.
Illustrated by Beardsley. Oscar Wilde’s one
outstanding heritage of almost, fiendish emo-
tion. All the power of paganism beats and
throbs against the ascetic heart of early
Christianity.
The beautiful, voluptuous, dancer-of-the-seven
veils falls in love with the prophet John. Love
means only one thing to her —embraces, ardent
kisses, the fulfilment of her sexual destiny.
She ha s learned her terrible power from the
eyes of the men who watched her dance. But
her wiles are powerless against the man of
Faith. He repulses her, and heaps calumny
upon both Salome and her mother.
How the proud and haughty dancer achieves
her desire to kiss the prophet’s lips ; how she
wdelds her seductive grace to this one end—
revenge for the holy man’s insults —makes thi:
book the most entertaining and fascinating
drama of human emotions —unbridled and un-
restrained. Tlie story of a fiendish impulse
which prompted the wicked mind of a cour-
tesan to revenge herself. Price, 3/6. We pay
postage.
88 Short Stories, by Guy de
Maupassant.
The most wonderful selection of French yarns
ever published in one hook. Price 15/-. In-
cludes postage.
“LOVE,” by Elinor Glyn
Elinor Glyn, famous author of “Three Weeks,” has written an amazing book
that should be read by every man and' woman—married or single. ‘Elinor
Glyn on Love” is not a novel —it is a penetrating searchlight fearlessly turned
on the most intimate relations of men and women.
LOVE’S VITAL PROBLEMS SOLVED.
In “Love,” Elinor Glyn courageously solves
the most vital problems of love and marriage.
She places a magnifying-glass unflinchingly
on the relations of men and women. No
detail, no matter how avoided by others, is
spared. She warn s you gravely, she suggests
wisely, she explains fully.
“Love” is one of the frankest books ever
written. It had to be. A hook of this type,
to be of real value, could not mince words.
Every problem had to be faced with utter
honesty, deep sincerity and resolute courage.
But while Elinor Glyn calls a spade a spade—
while she deals with strong emotions, and
passions in her frank, fearless manner—she
nevertheless handles her subject so tenderly
and sacredly that the book can safely be
read by any man or woman.
In fact, anyone over eighteen should he COM-
PELLED to read “Love”; for, while igno-
rance may sometimes be bliss, it is folly of
the most dangerous sort to be ignorant of the
problems of love and marriage. As one
mother wrote us: “I wish I had read this
book when I was a yo-ung girl—it would have
saved me a lot of misery and suffering.”
GET “LOVE” TO-DAY.
Send a 8/6 Postal Note to the London Book
Co., Ltd v Box 38, G.P.0., Sydney, and you
will not only receive a copy of “Love” by
return mail, but a copy also of Health and
Beauty Secrets.
Please mention “The Bulletin” when ordering.
WHAT BIRD IS THAT?
700 AUSTRALIAN BIRDS IN NATURAL COLORS.
A guide to the birds of Australia. Illustrated in Natural Colors. By Neville W. Cayley Member of the
Royal Australasian Ornithologists’ Union. With a preface by G. R. Thomas, Director of Education,
President of the Gould League of Bird Lovers, N.S.W. 375 pages, with 36 full-page plates in iour colors and
other illustrations. SIZE 82 t 52 INCHES, 12/6 (POST 6d.), TOIAb 13/-
This hook depicts in natural colors every known Australan bird’ —over 700 species. Wheie the sexes u
in coloration both are illustrated, so that nearly 900 birds are pictured. ~ .
The letterpress includes particulars of distribution, nests, eggs and food, with identification .notes ap
from coloration. Pronunciation and derivation of scientific names, according to the Royal Australasian Ornitho-
logists’ Union, are given. ~ ... ~ _ , ■
A special feature of the book is the. simplicity of arrangement, to ensure easy identification, the species
are arranged in habitat groups; each group being further subdivided into smaller groups figuung the bn s
in comparative sizes and color values. , ,
No hook on birds has been published in any country giving such concise and valuable information ana
mch beautiful colorplates at anything like the same price.
NOW OBTAINABLE AT LAST—THE GREAT BOOK OF
SEX KNOWLEDGE FOR MEN AND WOMEN.
“SAFE COUNSEL”
By Prof. Jeffries, M.D., Ph.D.; Prof. A. L, Nichols, A.M.; Dr. Emma F. A. Drake,
M.D., Ph.D.; and Zora S. Davis, Ph.D.
And have it Posted right to your very door for £1
Must every woman pay the price of a moment’s happiness in bitter tears and years of regret ? Must
millions of homes be ruined—lovers and sweethearts driven apart—marriages totter to the brink of divorce—
the sacred joys of sex relations be denied? YES —just as long as men and women remain ignorant of the
simple facts of life. ,
An Unpardonable Sin is total ignorance of the most important subject in the life of every man and woman
—SEX.
AWAY WITH FALSE MODESTY!
Let us face the facts of sex fearlessly and frankly, sincerely and scientifically. Let us tear the veil of
shame and mystery from sex and build the future of the race on a new knowledge of aill the facts of
sex as they are laid bare in plain, daring but wholesome words and frank pictures in this huge new library
of Sex Knowledge—‘‘SAFE COUNSEL.”
00
5
d
(SECRETS
FOR MEN AND WOMEN—OVER 100 ILLUSTRATIONS.
SECRETS FOR MEN.
Mistakes of early marriages—
Secrets of fascination—How _to
make women love you —Bringing
up healthy children —Nursing and
weaning—Fevers and contagious
diseases—Accidents and emergen-
cies—Hygiene in the home—-How
to care for invalids- —Limitation of
offspring—Warning to young men
—Dangerous diseases —Hygienic
precautions—Anatomy and physio-
logy—The reproductive organs —
Education of the family.
EVERYTHING A MARRIED
WOMAN SHOULD KNOW.
How to preserve youth—Warding
oft' other women —-Keeping yourself
attractive—-Why Husbands tire of
wives—Dreadful diseases due to
ignorance—Diseases of women —-
Diseases of children —Family
health guide—Change of life;
hygiene-—Why children die young
-—lnherited traits and diseases —
What will you tell your growing
girl ?-—Hundreds of valuable
remedies.
GIRLS, DON’T MARRY BEFORE
YOU KNOW ALL THIS.
Beauty diets and baths —-Do you
know: How to attract desirable
men? —How to manage men?— ••
How to know if. he loves you?—
How to acquire bodily grace and
beauty?—How to beautify face,
hands, hair, teeth, and feet?- —
How to acquire charm ? —How to
dress attractively?—lntimate per-
sonal hygiene'?-—llow to pick a
husband ?
FOR A COPY OF “SAFE
TO-DAY.
USE THIS FORM.
Enclosed please -find £1 (one
pound), for which please send me
one copy “Safe Counsel” by return
mail.
N.Z. Readers send £1 N.Z. Bank
Note.
Name
Address
New Art Pictures.
16 exquisite Reproductions of Beautiful Un-
draped Photographs of the World’s Loveliest
Girls and Models. The pictures are 12in. x
10in., and are enclosed in a Handsome Port-
folio, which can be untied so that each picture
can be framed for your private den. Nothing
so beautiful has .ever been sold. You get the
whole 16 pictures with calendar for 1932 care-
fully packed in heavy cardboard so that they
will not be damaged in transit. Price, 5/-.
We pay postage.
Norman Lindsay’s Pen Pictures.
Remarkable collection of Lindsay’s pictures,
5/6, including postage.
Normaii Lindsay “ART IN
AUSTRALIA’’ Edition.
Worth £2/2/-, only 10/- a copy.
Octavia.
Rich, ripe, fruity fiction, by Margot. Oxford.
There’s a sledge-hammer punch in the story
of a honeymoon that knocks convention side-
ways. Price, 6/- Postage, 6d.
Furniture Making
Contains over 1000 illustrations, and tells how
to make 170 different pieces of furniture.
Every handy carpenter should have this mar-
vellous book. Price, 16/-. Includes postage.
Book of Etiquette.
Don’t be a fool and ruin your life. This book
tells you what to do on all occasions. Indis-
pensable for men and girls climbing life’s social
ladder. Price, 5/- Includes postage.
Speeches for All Occasions
Know what to say .at the right time. This
book is the tied-tongue man’s guide. Price, 3/-
Cassell’s Reference Family
Doctor.
Should be in every home. Will toll you abso-
lutely everything you should know, and is
absolutelv authentic. Weighs two pounds.
Price, 16/-. Includes postage.
A Maid and a Million Men.
We beg to inform our clients that we are
unable to supply this book, but that “War,
AVine and Women” is just one hundred per
cent, better. It makes the “maid” read like
a Sunday-school story.
War, Wine and Women,
By Wilfred St. Maude. 555 pages of life
in Paris and on the Western Front. There s
a kick like a cocktail in this never-to-be-
forgotten epic. AA'eighs 2 pounds. Price 15/-.
AA r o pay postage.
The Red Knight of Germany.
By Floyd Gibbons.
The vivid story of each of those fights to the
death that often took place high up in the
blue, a mile from the earth. Strange contrast
to this, from Richthofen’s letters to his mother
he has drawn a picture of the kindly side or
the warrior’s nature. His book is a breathless
narrative of daring and heroism that places
its hero on a rank with the knights of
chivalry. It is an epic that starts with a
simple combat in the sultry days of 1916
and ends with the supreme moment when,
riddled with bullets, the German hero fell
between flaming lines of battle near Amiens.
Price, 6/-. Postage, 4d.
Red-headed Woman,
By Katharine Brush.
Miss Brush is equally famous in America and
in England for her startling, true pictures of
modern life. This is the. story of an adven-
turess —one of those amazing girls Whom men
fall for and women hate. Price, 7/6. Post-
age, 4d.
Amok, by Stefan Zweig.
To those who hold that the art of the long-
short story is dead, “Amok” comes as a living
refutation. Zweig’s genius for powerful drama
told with artistic, mastery has never been
better displayed. Price, 6/-. Postage, 4d.
Decadence, by Maxim Gorky.
Real Russia stripped bajre in the master trans-
lation that will thrill you through and through.
Price, 6/-. Postage, 4cf.
ALL THE ABOVE
All orders sent by Return Mail.
LONDON BOOK CO. LTD.
REGISTERED OFFICE: 228 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PERMANENT POSTAL ADDRESS:
BOX 38, G.P.O., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Send postal notes or cheques.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
s*J%uUetCn
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GJP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/»
9
a'
o
"1»* ;vvi
4* W
S®*
0°
a?
<> e
\i 6 3*
#■’
5 o' ••••' ~->


M
ssei
. -•
»
m
black
and wmte
manoeuvres
BLACK
Fine Out ,
Scotch W^'SKy
black
AN»
WHITE
BUCHANAN
GLASGOW
& LON DOM
B> Appo**\***<\\.
fotsitfer's to H M • U\« ¥v\UG
p «ODUC£ OF SCOTLAND
SCOTCH WHISKY
"BLACKi WHITE'
**#*#»***.«s f#wo« *>*** ' .
special blend or ,
CHOICE OLD SCOTCH WHISK*
scotch whisky distillers
GLASGOW & LONDON
o%>
IH
auiP
CONTENTS
PINT
& WHITE
Among a multitude
of possible moves
there’s one that is
always sure of suc-
cess—to bring out
the Black & White
and two glasses.
Bottled under Customs Supervision.
