

There's j ust one
LEADER
Mm
HI *
mm
1 ?
: ••
m
■m %
s *•
WmmmmM
mmm
111
jiif
<W y &&&S&
mmm m
mm
■
WORLD FAMOUS FLIGHTS
made on Union White Flash
and Atlantic Motor Oil.
"Southern Cross," San Francisco
to Brisbane, 1928 (Longest
ocean hop in history); "South-
ern Cross," Australia to New
Zealand and return, 1928;
"Southern Cross," Australia to
England, 1929; "Southern Cross
Junior," Australia to New
Zealand, 1931,
For the smartest start,
the long paceful run, the brilliant
burst of speed there’s just ONE
leader Union White Flash. Its
extra qualities (no extra cost) make
fast friends. From the Red, White
and Blue Pumps everywhere.
WORLD'S RECOUP
The world's one mile record
for horses is I minute, 32 4-5
secs. It is held conjointly by
Kepplestone (8.10), Hermos
(7.1), and Spiontetta (7.5).
The two last-named dead-
heated in establishing this
time at Brighton, Eng. in
August, 1927.
ATUNS
Hero* o,t
n
USE ALSO
ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL
[PRODUCT OF ATLANTIC UNION OIL COMPANY LTD.
U.L. I
The Bulletin
lAJa&t, oAxrwt (fil P
Vol. 53.—N0. 2759.
Wednesday, December 28, 1932.
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


r J’HE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU I
SEND THIS COUPON -
STOT'PS Technical Correspondence Colleae
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. y ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit ili
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. J j as
Ify Name
My Address
S.B. 232 ..
iJ-YSAGHTp
o
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
JJ
H
A.
UTICUHA
Preparations
sed the world
over by
hose who
realize the
importance
of pure
urative Soap
and Ointment
nsurpassed
for their
eliable
Medicinal
ntisepiic
Qualities
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W,
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
"THE AGE”
Established 185//.
Victoria's Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
ou do not leave it to chance in choosing a
newspaper for your advertising campaigns. You
require evidence of its stability and inquire
fully into. its _ claims for preference before
entrusting it with your sales message,
ho discriminate buyer of newspaper space can
afford to overlook
“THE AGE"
when contemplating future allocations for
Victoria.
Make your first preference “THE AGE,” and
you will be convinced that in choosing this
medium to broadcast your sales message
throughout the State your choice has been
fully justified.
“The Age” CIRCULATES in the
homes and offices of 115,000 sub-
scribers daily, and publishes over ONE
MILLION Advertisements annifally.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office. 43 Hunter Street.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H, C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Ewrywherc— a n over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building. Elizabeth
Street.
•
35 SALESMEN
UNANIMOUS.
A few weeks ago a large
insurance company (The
Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Coy.)
had an important mes-
sage for Queensland
people. How should they
make it known l Which
newspaper offered the
widest coverage ? They
asked their salesmen and
collectors: “Which news-
papers do you find most
frequently in the
homes you visit ? ” The
reply was unanimous—
The
Brisbane
Courier,
Member Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
Representative:—
Robt. D. Fisher —85007,
74 Pitt St., Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should road the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test “THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Che Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.3.W.
Phone: 85241. / :;
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
Science for the Unscientific
The civilised world has gone a long way
since Winwood Reade in his preface to
“The Martyrdom of Man” disclosed that
‘literary friends and the publisher” had
urged him to “alter several passages” of
his masterpiece. They were afraid that
readers’ feelings would be hurt by his
plain talk on religion and other tabooed
subjects. Nowadays nothing is tabooed.
Many Anglican prelates are as critical of
the Biblical account of the Creation as
agnostics. Few people even in India be-
lieve the old Indian story that the earth
is carried on the back of an elephant which
stumbles every now and then, and so causes
earthquakes. We are all physicists these
days. Also, to an extent, physiologists. The
fantastic remedies of a former age are only
prescribed by a diminishing band of Chinese
herbalists. Men and women have learned a
lot about their bodies. Schoolboys know
things about chemistry that Lavoisier never
dreamt of, and they could surprise Ampere
on the subject of electricity. Cheap and
simply written books, such as those re-
viewed below, are chiefly responsible.
World History
An Outline for Boys and Girls and Thei
Parents (Gollancz; Robertson and Mullens
13s. 6d.) is an attempt to compress int
less than 900 pages the structural history
of the earth; the growth of its nations; th
development of the nations’ laws and socia
habits, and analyses of the latter’s off-
shoots, including wars, religions and ever
kind of literary, scientific and artistic move
ment. The editor is Naomi Mitchison, anc
she has summoned to her banner scores o ’
writers who can speak with authority o
such widely-differing subjects as applie
biology and the growth of the family, th
power of money (with lucid expositions o
the cheque system and the gold standard
and visual art. If she has a defect it con
sists in her kittenish habit of addressing he
readers as if they were mental juveniles.
Some of my authors are eminent, and som
are not eminent yet. I have written biog
rapines of most of them, but some of them
would not let me do that, and other
made me cut out what I thought were the
best and funniest bits.
The authors, contrariwise, are deadly serious
as a rule. They have been severely limitec
as regards space. The whole national anc
social history of the last 30 years (“The
Age of Violence”), which includes accounts
of the World War and the Russian revolu-
tion, is covered in 30 pages! Only 40 pages
are given to the burning topical question
of economics. But this bovrilised writing
m which abstruse terms are avoided and
monosyllables are preferred to dissjdlables
much less polysyllables, makes very easy
reading. The work also has points as
reference-hook. Its enormous index con-
tains close on 3000 words.
Mavis Place in Nature
The Great Experiment, by Edith M.
Howes (Dent; 5s.), is another of the many
efforts that have been made in recent
years to elucidate the mysteries of sex in
terms of nature study. Since the main
object of works of the kind is to inform
the young, without shocking them, a
measure of their success is the tact and deli-
cacy of the writer. Miss Howes handles
her main theme, which is the place of
humanity in Nature’s plan, with remarkable
adroitness. She traces evolution from
amoeba to man, stressing always the rela-
tive unimportance of the sexual act in the
growth of parenthood. Pity and associa-
tion—the helplessness and dependence of
young things—are the mainsprings of
paternal and maternal care.
I ho majority of fishes have no sexual
union; their cells, male and female, are
simply ejected into the water; yet there is
passionate fatherhood among them.... And
all through the higher animals runs that
protracted and tremendous material sacrifice
which no short-lived pleasure can ever offset.
Nature, working according to her habit from
quantity to quality, from billions of gener-
ative cells and millions of young to the
decreasinglv few more richly endowed and
wisely cared for, has reached a stage in her
experiment when the spiritual side of her
proudest achievement matters most. The
future of the human race depends on its
response to the new requirement. Mother
care, father care and community care have
served their purposes and must be followed
by a new form of human care. A world
made safer and
happier for child-
ren is the present
aim, according to
Miss Howes. She
believes that this
can only be
achieved, and civilisation saved, by “chain-
ing the monster war.” bhe argues her case
with passion as well as lucidity.
The Rudiments of Chemistry
J. G. Crowther’s The A.B.C. of Chemistry
(Kegan Paul; Dymocks; 4s. 6d.) expounds
the paid played by chemistry in everyday
life. He begins with John Mayow, and
the chemistry of respiration. Few under-
stood what Mayow was getting at in the
seventeenth century, and it was not till a
hundred years later that the part played by
oxygen in the blood was demonstrated. He
passes bjr a natural association of ideas to
poison gases, which have such disastrous
effects on respiration, and gives tables
showing the substances and damaging con-
centrations required in the case of lung and
weeping irritants, paralysing and sneezing
gases, and tissue destructors. Food and
what happens to it; drugs ancient and
modern; the soil and how it is fertilised,
and the immensely important parts played
by dyes, acids and coal and tar in the life
of a civilised community are handled in
simple language. A useful feature of the
book to those without scientific training
f\J he section on Theory, and it has a
bibliography in which the works specially
suitable for beginners are starred.
Without Thought of the Morrow”
Cheesman’s Insect' Behaviour
(Philip Allan; 4s, 6d.) is a smaller and alto-
gether less ambitious work than her “Hunt-
ing Insects in the South Seas,” which was
reviewed on this Page some months ago.
Her most interesting point, and the basis
of her thesis, is that insects can’t reason.
Ants keep herds of lesser insects as slaves;
sow and cultivate necessary fungi with the
skill of human gardeners; raid the nests of
rival ants and make their prisoners work
for them; but all these complex actions are
motivated, not by intelligence, but by
hereditary instincts. Perhaps the most in-
terestmg chapter in the book is the'one on
Failure of Instinct.” Instinct only pro
duces the right result from the insect’s point
of view' when conditions remain normal,
bo pestiferous insects can "easily be misled
to their destruction and the benefit of
mankind. The scientist in quest of a pro-
phylactic has merely to find the scent
lc , ac^; s as a hire in any given case,
the Mediterranean fruit fly was the bane
of orchardists in Westralia. It was dis-
covered that the male of this' species was
attracted by the smell of kerosene oil, so
tins of kerosene w'ere hung on the fruit-
trees of W.A. and the fruit flies flocked
to them and were destroyed. “Variation
of Instinctive Behaviour” is another fascin-
\tmgand enlightening chapter. This book
should prove a gift of God to any enthusi-
astic schoolteacher.
Sign of the Times
The Wonder Book of Electricity, like the
rest of Ward Lock’s “Wonder Book”
series, costs 5s. and is frankly intended for
youngsters. It has hundreds of illustra-
tions, including some really beautiful color
plates, and a series of brief articles by such
authorities as Professor Low and Captain
. kersley yhe broadcasting .expert who w r as
m Australia recently) on wireless, auto-
matic traffic control, the talkies, flood-
lighting, television and similar up-to-the-
minute topics. It is hard to imagine a more
acceptable Christmas present for a scientific-
minded boy of 15 or upwards.
RED PAGE.
A State Socialist Recants
State Socialism in Victoria by P W
Eggleston (P. S. King and Son; 21s.) ‘
describes the author’s conversion during his
occupancy of Ministerial posts in Victorian
Governments between 1924 and 1927 from “a
strong advocate of public ownership of all
common services to the view that under
present circumstances the conditions for
the successful public operation of many of
these services do not exist in Victoria.”
the public services in the Cabbage
Kn?nnnn P nn Sent Vi an investment of over
£200,000,000, with an annual income of
£25.000,000. It, is probably the most-highly
socialised community in the world, and
Soviet Russia has not visualised some of
the problems which successive Victorian
politicians engaged to solve with a light
eart and tons of optimism. According to
this ex-politician, closer settlement has
failed, the loss to the State being enor-
mous, and development being retarded
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—Our Assurance of Accuracy.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
Better Farming Implements—
PLOUGHS
All - Steel Plough £B/17/6
Made by John Deere and Co. A sturdy All-steel
Plough, with mouldboard of hardened, soft-centre
steel and shares of crucible steel. beam is of
special steel with high curve. Body is one-piece
steel, with steel handles.
Cut, inches . . 9 10
«/»/. «./«/. *io/°o/6
“Bantam” Plough £4/17/6
Made by John Deere and Co. A Strong, Light All-
steel One-horse Plough, designed for use in mixed
land. High beam gives ample clearance.
Cut, 7in.; weight, 641 b. Price £4/17/6
Cut, 9in.; weight, 841 b. Price £6
Garden Plough at 25/-
“Fire Fly” Garden Plough. Useful for the gardener,
chicken-raiser or farmer. Opens a furrow up to
six inches wide and three inches deep—deeper
by going in the furrow a second time. Valuable
for opening furrows for large seeds such as
potatoes, and for fertiliser, and for covering them
up. It can be used for cultivating by ploughing
away the soil from the plants, covering the weeds,
and then throwing the soil back on the plants
after the weeds have died. The chicken-raiser can
use this for ploughing up his chicken-run and
keeping the soil sweet. Price 25/-
Cultivator at 82/6
Sixteen-tooth Harrow Cultivator. Weight, 661 b.
For fine work among small plants where it is de-
sired to loosen and pulverise the soil, this style
of Cultivator is unsurpassed. Adjustable and
reversible steel teeth, diamond shaped, may be used
either end up, and may be set either straight or
slanting backward or forward. Price .... 82/6
Forge £B/5/-
The “Bax>id” Hand
Crank Forge, with 18in.
Pan and Machine-cut
Gears; weight, 801 b.
Forge is made in Aus-
tralia, and will compare
favorably with any Port-
able Forge on the market.
It can be taken to pieces
and assembled in two
minutes —no spanners re-
quired. Scientifically
constructed to give the
best possible Blast. Dup-
licate parts always ob-
tainable.
Price £B/5/-
è
fi ©
Forge 70/-
A First-class Portable
Forge, definitely
superior to many low-
priced Forges.
Macliine-c u t gear
wheels' of 40 to 1
ratio, 7-10 in. wide;
6iin. fan case gives
a powerful blast.
Legs are strong, and
the forge is altogether
a sturdy, compact
production, and un-
usually good value for
the money. Has been
designed for simpli-
city and high effl-
made of 16 gauge
iron, 18in. square,
30in. deep.
Price 70/-
22in. Square Pire
Pan £4/5/-
Gear Force Pump
£5/12/6
Myers’ New Cog Gear Force Pump is
used to force water into overhead tanks,
etc. Is fitted with 3 x 4-| inch brass-
lined cylinder, brass-covered piston rod
and air dome held •by four bolts, which
is necessary owing to the great pressure
under which it works. Can be operated
against 751 b. pressure if desired. Take
1 grin. pipe. Price £5/12/6
{Dept.—Fourth Floor.
Free Delivery city and
Suburbs only.)
#
m.
at lower prices
from
Anthony
Horderns'
Anthony Horderns’ Agricultural Implements are fully!
tested as to their efficiency before being delivered. All
Implements carry our guarantee of sound construction and
high quality. We have supplied hundreds of the imple-
ments listed below, and the purchasers and users have
nothing but praise for them.
Horse Hoe and Cultivator
No. 8 Horse Hoe and Cultivator Com- fK/12/6
bined. The Planet Jr. No. 8 Horse Hoe <*' '
and Cultivator is one of the most valuable time and labor
saving tools available for the use of the farmer. Has a
steel wheel that does not clog; a frame that is longer an
higher than others; steel standards that are so attached a
to both brace the cultivator and withstand strain; levers
that operate quickly and easily; a depth regulator. Equip-
ment includes four 3 x Bin. cultivator steels, one 4 x Bin-
cultivator steel, two 6 in. hillers, one 7in. shovel, all
especially hardened; will give long service. £5/12/6
Price ' '
“Star” Disc Harrows from
The “Star” Disc Harrow is one of the most JC 1 Q
popular harrows we supply. Has strong
channel-steel frame and braces, adjustable seat, two-
wheeled fore truck, anti-friction rollers and durable bear-
ings 3ft. wide. 6 discs 16in. with shafts. Price .... £l3
Light two-horse 3ft. wide, 10 discs 1 6in., 3021 b. Price, £l7
Two- or t'hree-horse 6ft. wide, 12 discs 16in., 3691 b.
Price
VYCES from 42/6 each
Blacksmith’s Leg Vyces.
3Jin. Jaw, up to 451 b. Price, each 42/6
4in. Jaw, average 561 b. Price, per lb. .......... 9d.
4Jin. Jaw, average 601 b. Price, per lb •• • 9d.
sin. Jaw, average 761 b. Price, per lb 9d.
6in. Jaw, average I 101 b. Price, per lb 9d-
The “Uni” Cutter
£6/10/-
No. 1 “Uni”
Cutter, made
by Anthony Horderns’. Has
mouth, cuts two lengths,
iin. and £in. Sturdily built on
steel legs. Price .... £6/10/-
cva
■nuiniMUU
Chaffcutter
No. 2 “Uni” Hand -£Q
Chaffcutter, made by **
Anthony Hordern and Sons.
Rising mouth, wide. Cap-
acity, scwt. per hour. Floor
space, 6ft. x 3ft. 6in. Cuts two
lengths, lin. and Weight,
2cwt. Price £9
ANVILS
Peter Wright’s First-quality
Anvils, 9d. lb., 1 121 b. and over.
All steel “Nash” Brand—
501b. to 701 b. Per lb 9d.
711 b. and upwards. Per lb., Bd.
(Dept.—Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED,
’Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
!
Postal Address:
Box 2712C. G.P.O,


m
m
m
'T'HE Australian Year Book satisfies your thirst for “general information.”
A Its 384 pages are packed with the facts and figures about all phases of cur-
rent Australian life and activity, arranged and indexed for immediate refer-
ence. So much book for so few pence has never been published in Australia
before. Get a copy for your home and office, and be sure a copy is available
for your children, to satisfy the eagerness for knowledge that all bright Aus-
tralian kiddies possess.
SCOPE OF THE YEAR BOOK
GOVERNMENT AND
ADMINISTRATION
The Government.
The Navy. The Army
The Air Force.
The Bench.
Government Finances
Education in 1932.
Scientific and Industrial Research.
REVIEWS
Articles, reviewing the past year
and touching upon the future, by
Rt. Hon. J. A. Lyons,
Hon. B. S. B. Stevens.
Hon. Sir S. Argyle,
Hon. W. Forgan Smith.
Hon. L. L. Hill,
Hon. Sir J. Mitchell.
Hon. J. C. McPhee.
Professor Copland,
and many, others.
Latest General Elections. Federal
and State. .
United. Australia Party.
Political Labor in 1932.'
New State Movement in 1932.
PERSONALITIES
Biography Section:
500 Prominent Australians.
Decorated and Titled Australians:
The V.C.
The Order of the Bath.
The Order of St. 'Michael and
• St. 'George.
•The Order of the British
Empire.
Knights Bachelor.
Australian Privy Councillors.
INDUSTRY
■The production of:
Wool. Wheat. Meat,
truit. Dried Vine Fruits.
Wme. Canned Fruits.
•Dairying. Sugar.
JCoal. Gold Overseas Trade.
Basic Wage Facts and Figures.
Secondary Industries— Brief Re-
I yiew.
Company Operations.
A”',’S,k PubUc
The Building Trade of 1932.
FINANCE
Government Finances.
Australian Security Values.
Banking. Exchange Note Issue
TRANSPORT AND
COMMUNICATIONS
Railways. Motor Transport.
Shipping.
Television and Picture Transmis-
sion in 1932.
Wireless in 1932.
Post, Telegraph, Telephone and
Wireless Information.
Aviation in .Australia.
Motors in 1932-33.
Motor Legislation.
RELIGION
The Churches in Australia.
Church of, England Bishops.
Roman Catholic Bishops.
THE ARTS
Talkies in Australia.
Music in 1932. Opera in 1932.
The Theatre Wakes Up
Art in 1931-32.
RACING
Racing Season 1931-32.
Racehorse Records.
A Year of the Tote.
Phar Lap’s Record.
Huge Winnings by Racehorses
-Here and Overseas.
Results of Principal Races in
•Australia since 1912.
CRICKET
Seeking the. Ashes.
Who’s Who of the Engli-sh Side.
Test Cricket Statistics.
English XI. Itinerary.
Don Bradman’s Records.
Cricket Season of 1931-32.
Sheffield Shield Statistics, Etc.
football
Rugby League Tests in 1932.
Rugby Union Football.
Australian Rules Football in 1932.
Soccer in 1932.
OTHER SPORTING
ACTIVITIES
Tenths—Davis Cup
Tennis in Australia in 1932
State Tennis Championships
Golf in 1932.
World’s Sculling Title
Other Sculling Events
Yachting.
Olympic Games Result-.
Records by Amateur Athletes for
the World, Australia and Olym-
pic Games.
World’s Professional Athletic
Records.
World’s Swimming Records.
Australian Swimming Records,
Boxing in 1932.
ETCETERA
Gazeteer of Australia.
Population Statistics.
Fashion Survey and Summary.
Life Assurance in- Australia
Insurance Other than Life
Friendly Societies in Australia.
Weather in 1932.
Hospitals in 1932.
Principal Newspapers in Australia.
The Consular Corps Throughout
Australia,
A Statistical Summary showing
Australia’s Progress since Fede-
ration,
e
—every man who works
with his brain.
—every man who takes a
five intellectual interest
in the sports, government,
politics, business, progress
and general condition of
Australia.
—every woman who likes
to be able to converse
interestingly about cur-
rent affairs.
—every woman who has
children that come to her
ii for information.
—every child who Is
learning to think for him*
self or herself and has
a healthy appetite for
knowledge about the
affairs of the Common-
wealth and its constituent
States.
AUSTRALIAN
YEAR BOOK
Published in collaboration with “The Herald” (Melb.), “Daily Mail” (Brisbane),
“The Advertiser” (Adelaide), “Daily News” (Perth), “The Mercury” (Hobart).
m
7/A
0
&
#
T tiF ORIATFST
Hi HP I PH*** *» «|k HP' HP-***^ l 'Hi
Ap"* mt *mm mm mm mm mL i . a / l
SHILLINGS WORTH
Australia has
published


è
1933!
Greetings from the Store
‘‘Where the Good Hats
Are”
HATS—AND HEARTS!
Through the medium of merchandise
Murdoch’s have made contact with a
mighty host of shoppers whose busi-
ness friendship and goodwill is not
only a priceless asset, but a real last-
ing joy.
Yes, there is red blood corpuscles in
business, and Murdoch’s pause on the
threshold of another year to wish you all
happiness, prosperity and an abundance of
these experiences which ever make for up-
ward progress.
TKe New Standard of
Reduced Prices in Hats
Men’s pure Fur Felt Hats, in the
popular “Narrow or Broad” “Snap
Brim” shapes; smart shades of
Fawn, B e a ver > Light, Mid and Dark
Greys and the new
Plover Grey, Silk lined.
Usually 25/-. NOW
18/9
Discriminating dressers favor the
Murdoch “Stralino,” an Austra-
lian-made pure Fur Felt in popular
“Snap Brim,” Silk lined. Shades
of Beaver, Fawn, Light, Mid and
Dark Greys and the
new Plover Grey. Sizes
6i to Price ....
25/-
Panamas
Cool and comfortable genuine South
American Panama Hats, available in the
popular “Alpine” or “Folder” shape.
Black silk bands. Sizes 6f to 7-g.
Usually 22/6.
MURDOCH’S SPECIAL
18/6
f ' M
mmmM
We pay freight.
Write letters to Desk “R”
raxie
pARKbGEORuLSI
instead of accelerated Irrigation and
water supply emerge with a mild pat on
the back, though the lrrigatiomsts started
with an insufficient knowledge of the tech-
nical problems involved and made a multi-
tude of bloomers. The State has thus lost,
but individuals have gained, and irrigation
areas have been developed beneficially. The
railways are gravely endangering the sol-
vency of the State, and should be sold or
leased to private enterprise. The electri-
city supply is in a delicate situation, and
its affairs might easily become critical if
the artificially-high prices of competing fuels
were reduced. Roads, forests, the Savings
Bank and municipal activities have on the
whole been successful, and the Agricultural
Department has shown wisdom in confin-
ing its function to education and advice,
without taking responsibility off the shoul-
ders of the citizens.
Mr. Eggleston attributes the failure of
his old creed to the appearance of a new
phenomenon, the “self-contained man.” The
self-contained man has replaced the prole-
tarian as a political factor. He has a small
stake in the country and moderate security.
He is a member of a union or a civil ser-
vant, and he generally has a savings-bank
account. He owns a suburban allotment with
a time-payment house on it. lie is self-
opinionated, contemptuous of tradition, con-
servative, selfish, and knows little and cares
less about public questions. When he votes
he votes on the popular side, after a glance
at the morning paper on the eve of an
election. He is indifferent to fraud, corrup-
tion and muddling in high places, and
watches Governments come and go with
complacency, only being stirred to momen-
tary frenzy when he supposes his personal
interests to be threatened. The complete
elector.
It is a black picture which can only be
lightened, according to the author, by the
achievement of radical changes in the men-
tality and ethical outlook of the self-con-
tained man aforesaid. In short, by educat-
ing the electors. The book runs to 354
pages, and is fully documented.
SPASEBO.
Wreaths for an Originator
Mrs Nettie Palmer’s amiable bewilder-
ment (Red Page 23/11/’32) over my “Bul-
letin Gathering” does not stir in me the
sympathy it perhaps should. With a sub-
heading such as “An Unfaithful Report,” I
thought the verses could hardly be taken
literally. As for the date—why not? Even
a fantasy may relate to a particular hap-
pening. This one assuredly did. The place
was Fasoli’s in King-street; the occasion
(there were so many “occasions” in those
younger days!) was, I think, the birthday
of “The Native Companion,” with virile E.
J. Brady in the editorial chair; the date,
as quoted, was 30/7/’O7. _ Everybody in
Melbourne who wrote or painted or drew or
sculped or played an instrument or sang
was there; and we of the Inky Way were
warned, when the dinner was projected,
that we must prepare something for the
general entertainment. So it came about
that I wrote, before the event, an account
of it, not dealing with what was, but with
what might have been.
Of course Lafvson was far away. So were
Rodei’ic Quinn and The Banio and Steele
Rudd and Tom Collins and Hugh McCrae
—worse luck! What did that matter! For
the purpose of the item I had decided to
picture a Bulletin gathering, and could
there have been a Bulletin gathering in
those days without including the people I
named? My one regret is that so many of
the obvious were omitted.
It was early for Den. and his Bloke, I
admit. They must have been a later inter-
polation.
The “teen” rhyming of Bulletin calls
for little comment. We all did it in speech;
none of us do it in writing save as Tom
Collins did it—in quotes.
R. H. CROLL.
Alibi
“It is a truism that the mortality among good
books is appalling, while the immortality among bad
books is ludicrous.” — “K.S.” ( R.P. 28/11/’32).
It may be a truism, but it is not true;
it is a euphuism nicely to the taste of
“K,S.” and all who would titillate the feel-
ings of those half-wits of the world, the
precious, the indifferent, and the bad
writers. These get their whole glory from
thinking that the public is an ass for not
buying their junk. Or publishers will not
publish them because, they think, publishers
are too intent upon getting out the work
of relations and friends! It is, and I’m
sure it always will be, the belief of all
false writers that they do not get accept-
ance because some interested person—pub-
lisher, editor, public—is working against
them. How comforting! How suckled of
Omar! And what an easy way out!
CECIL MANN.
A Satchel of Books
Jenny News tend (Heinemann, 7s. 6d)
is quite the most tedious thriller that Mrs.
Belloc Lowndes has written. The criminal
who causes all the trouble is drawn from
life, as in most of her books, but his appear-
ances are rare. Jenny, one of the girls
whom he married and omitted to murder, is
the central figure; and the novel is mainly
a study of her extremely uninteresting char-
acter. She finds happiness in the arms of
a good man after her betrayer has paid the
penalty of his crimes.
Ofence, by Pierre Bost (Elkin Mathews;
7s. 6d. net), is a translated French
account of the life of two medical students
in Paris. Their discouragements, their
adolescent debaucheries, their strivings to
adjust themselves, their first affairs of the
heart, their advent into journalism and the
effect of the death of one on the other have
been well understood and depicted in simple
and expressive language. Nevertheless,, the
characters do not quite live; their emotional
experiences are not felt. One realises that
certain happenings are important but fails
to feel their significance. A cold painter
may paint grass; you know it is grass he
has painted, but his picture doesn’t give
you back the feel of grass.
The theme of The System . by Lionel
Birch (Philip Allan; 7s. 6d.), is the neu-
roses which afflict some young people at
boarding-schools. Helen, aged 13, gets in-
fatuated with' one of her mistresses. One
day Helen’s mother is going through the
clothes of her son Jack, aged 18, when a
snapshot falls out: —
Casually she turned it over. In pencil on the
top left-hand corner was written: —
“With all my love, darling.”
Frozen, she shook out the rest of the pocket-book.
Five other snaps fell out. They were all snaps of
Roger Davison.
But there was no real harm in it, and in
due course Jack married and begat a son
and daughter himself. And so, concludes
the author, “did Jack Jenks, past captain
of Norton’s Rugger and future captain of
Britain’s industry, justify the System.”
Meaning, of course, England’s maligned
public-school system.
They March from Yesterday , by Georges
Surdez (W. Collins; 7s. 6d.) ; is the best
novel about the Foreign Legion that this
deponent has read for years. One reason
may be that Surdez actually served in
the famous corps; most self-constituted
authorities on the subject, from “Ouida”
onwards, have only read about it. The.
hero is Peter Kempton, who gets into trouble
with gangsters in the U.S.A. and, paradoxi-
cally, joins the Legion to save his life. The
descriptions of the desperate engagements
in which lie participates are most convinc-
ingly done. So is the account of his escape,
which is followed by his marriage to the
right girl.
Peter Rose, the. hero of W. J. Rock’s
To-day We Live (Angus and Robertson,
65.), is a Sydneyite who has moved for
over 30 years in the society of the poor and
near-poor of Darlinghurst and thereabouts.
He came in contact with most of them
through a Court which it was his whim .to
conduct with a friend fo,r the settlement of
the domestic troubles of strangers. Mr.
Rock has wit; his book scintillates with
epigram. But he lacks either cynicism or
nerve, and he is a sentimentalist. Scores of
harassed King’s Crossites move across his
canvas, and there isn’t one whose manner
of speech would shame a synod. No one
utters so much as a d —n. You think Peter
is going to stray from righteousness once
or twice; as, for example, when he accosts
a factory girl on a Manly boat, kisses her
before they reach Manly and takes her to
his Darlinghurst flat later on. . But no; all
he does is to give her a spelling test (“in
which she fared badly”) and some old copies
of “St. Elmo,” “Infelice” and “Lady Aud-
ley’s Secret.” “A tiny schoolboy,” he reflects
sadly as he puts her on a tram, “prefers
‘Jack the Giant Killer’ to his school book, and
Madge’s tiny brain naturally discarded
squalor for romance.”
“Are you fond of going out at night, yourself,
Mr. Roberts ?” Jim asked suddenly.
“Well, I thought people settled down when they
got married, Mr. Hatfield. I’m quite satisfied to
read, but want Olive in my home with me, like
other married people.”
“Are you a member of any lodge Or friendly
society?” Jim asked briskly.
“No, Mr. Hatfield. When I want a doctor I
believe in paying for good service.”
Few Australians talk in this stilted fashion,
yet nearly all the characters in To-day We
Live do it.
And a Little Verse
SILVER C UM.
Sadly she stands in'the shadows, alone of
her kind in the glade, .
Like a pale prisoner watched by barbarian
foes;
Shuddering under their spear-shafts and
arms that are darker than shade,
AH through the daylight she trembles and
sighs of her woes.
But when the pitying moon with a diademed
fillet has crowned her, .
Robing her body with light and her spirit
with peace.
Royal she moves from the shadows: the
duskier beings around her
Bow to her exquisite beauty and give her
release.
N.S.W.
D.L.M.M.
CHURCH BELLS IN ENGLAND ON
THE GRAMOPHONE.
Nothing remained, it seemed, for them to
break
Upon their Catherine wheel. Each disc
in turn
Spun sentiment, inviting you to yearn.
With voice pontifical the Announcer spake:
“Church bells in England.” Good. I was
immune
From all nostalgia. There was no tune.
No voice of home or glebe they had not
tinned.
The needle scratched. Warbled the Philo-
mels,
As in some tin Elysium. I grinned,
And waited for the onslaught of the bells.
’Tis strange to write of. “Here we have,”
I thought,
“The last banality.” Then I was aware
I had forgotten how the English air
Washes the English belfries. Fugitive I
caught
The far reproach of Englishmen who died
In battle for the English countryside.
And I remembered distance; not the doom
Of Patmos for Saint John, but space that
tells
Of its own respite through the scented gloom
Of English evenings, when they ring the
bells.
MAORILAND.
C. B. ALLEN.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently sfamped. iVawa
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Cocky Q.; Yes, but why not give their
earnings? The figures quoted mean nothing to the
general public. ?. .Domina, G.J.C., J.M.H., R.G.H.,
D.L.M.: Our cramped space compels us to say no.
....Gregory N.: Pitted with commonplaces....
L.McC.: More ideas than poetry in them. “November
Night” comes nearest.... Marie v. d. D.: Try us
again in 12 months’ time. Meantime cultivate brain
and ear, and study verse-form... .Faber: “I haven’t
been able to give the problem much thought." The
result recalled a wise old saying: “Sow thin, mow
thin” D.A.S.: You call it “Silent Hour” and
then stir up a wild bull to bellow through it....
F. (Q.): Of course we should encourage sugges-
tions to get the world out of its mess. But you
don’t help the hound by encouraging him to follow
a wrong scent... .Oswald R.: There’s music in you.
Now find something to say... .S.H.R.: A thing of
that sort ought to be smoother... .T.T.T.: Can’t
offer you any encouragement... .R.F.S.: Gold, gold
everywhere and not a glimmer of literary quality.
G.H.M.: Utterly unsuitable J.J.K.: Its only
merit is that it couldn’t be shorter... .H.G.:
Dispiriting echoes... .R.M.C.: So you wrote the
enclosed and “were assured by some Riverina cockies
that they were good enough for The Bulletin.”
These sturdy yeomen will have their joke... .Driver:
No beer in that R.A.F.: Your rhymes are fre-
quently villainous, you have little idea of metre,
your grammar and your spelling are both defective.
Worst of all, you have nothing to say Lignum:
Hopeless.... Largo: You take a lot of space to say
nothing worthwhile or even reasonably intelligible.
Dobbo: Milk-and-watery humor... .8.J.8.: In-
formative, no doubt, but you fail to make rippling
verse of it:—■
My mate and I took on a job
Of clearing brigalow scrub;
Five bob an acre was all we got
And paid for our own grub.
.... A. A. 1.: See if you can’t improve it. Strengthened
in parts and polished in others it might pass....
C.E.D.: Doesn’t sound like the Sydney waterfront to
us C.E.8.: Can’t share your enthusiasm for Amelia.
M.T.B.: Haven’t we already returned the fellow
who championed the goanna?... .H.A.G.: Sincere
and that’s all N.R.: You’re on the road. Make
more of the old chap... .C.W.L.: N 0... .E.J.S.:
Almost a winner; the fun is a little forced....
G. : Well enough written, but it isn’t convincing.
P.C.: Might suit a flapper paper R.T.: Keep
on, but use adjectives more sparingly... .H. 8.: A
sentimental trifle... .M.M.: Overstocked with yarns
describing squabbles between goldseekers... .V.S.:
Still amateurish... .J.H.G.: They got several read-
ings, but the scrappiness is fatal... . J.8.W.: Dancing
frog capers a little below print level... .C.P.: The
oldest cask-broaching tale in captivity L.V.: A
decrepit story... J.D.: Carl’s guttural remarks weren’t
worth transferring to paper.. .F.T.F.: Lend us that
marlinspike—we’ll keep it for writers who type
with a machine that cuts holes in the paper....
G.L.: Martha tried our patience sorely D.S.:
Treated humorously, it might d0....W.8.: He may
have survived in the flesh but his yarn is dead....
P.J.: Snobbish H.W.: You didn’t have your
heart in the job... .A.S.H.: To us “The End" was
the best thing in it Sara: The bard who seeks to
rhyme “seventy" with “cemetery” excites our hos-
tility... .M.P.S.: There’s cleverness in both of them,
but they just fail to click... ■ J.R.P,: We have
seldom struggled through prosier verse. .. .S.W.: It
has merit., but not quite enough. 1. .K.W.:
Limping bathos... .J.A.M.: It isn’t a poem, or a
song, either.... A. W.R.M.: Too artificial... .G.L.F.:
Don’t get too sorry for yourself. The city worker
out of a job is far worse off than you are. You
have a roof over your head, a cow in the paddock, a
few hens around the house and a bag or two of
spuds ready to dig. He’s got none of these....
L.S.: Too slight M.P.L.: Crashes in the last two
lines... .S.M.P.: Commonplace... .Wimpole: Sorry,
you guessed wrong. It merely gave us the hump.
H.W.S.: Glad to hear from you again. But
“Hour" has a spot or two that outs it... .Daniel F.:
Album verse... .H.V.F.: Like so much more, a
mere exercise in stringing words together. No feel-
ing, no sincerity J.R.R.: Imagery well sustained.
But, as verse, p00r... .E.G.L.: None suitable. Take
a solid course of reading... .Fairykin: Slips too
easily into the sentimental... .Ninety-nine: You
handle facts too carelessly. For instance, that
Parkes (the Sydney City alderman) isn’t a son of
old Henry; he’s a nephew... .E.V.8.: Delicacy of
thought marred by lines that shake the teeth out of
the unwary reader... .A.L.: Glad she had a happy
Christmas even if we couldn’t introduce her to
readers... .P.M.: Liked the title, but not the story.
K.G.T.: Breaks no new ground Blatch: Yes,
he was a Bulletin sub-editor before he edited the
“Worker”... .Vasse: He wrote a life of Deakin;
Forrest has had no biographer, although he deserved
a good one. _
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.E.C.: Old stuff R.T.: “Beauty” has bunions,
knock-knees, angular shoulders and a squint....
H.L.: Cremation joke in rotten taste C. 8.: You’re
squandering your time.... A.J.: Smudged drawing
to hand. Use a fixative next time... .R.W.J.:
Fitting that it should come from the wild west.
C.S.: That hammock wouldn’t carry the enormous
matron K.T.: You have more faith in your
friends’ judgment than we have... .H.M.: All the
figures look as if they had been mauled by a lion.
R.B.: Those harsh oblique strokes gave us eye-
strain... .P.E.: Work of a raw amateur... .H.J.D.:
No market for colored sketches of fairies cavorting
beneath giant sunflowers F.C.T.: Ski-she pun has
been overworked. It’s summer, anyhow. .. .A.K.:
Do you want to start nn epidemic of sleeping sick-
ness ?... . P.Q.: Poor workmanship....B.W.: Hope
you’ll do better in 1933, but doubt whether you will
have improved by 1953. ... A.8.J.: Couldn’t get the
point of the joke, if it had a point W.R.P.:
AH look as if they had wallowed in mud F.S.:
Eight-nine-out!... .G.E.H.: Why did you put her
waistline just below her neck?... .A.N.: So Mrs.
Brown is still swinging a rolling-pin ? She was
doing it in Phil May’s time. ~ .T.J.C.: They don’t
warrant superlatives, but you’re coming on.


e
FAMOUS
WINES
*■ -
/:
'•- -• 6- § -, li «
My, ;•'■... JL
■#Jte^ ! *~‘ "<■ » ■■■ ■ - ■
* « - . J/Kry r
< -'i ... > ? *** >T «£*■•
■ j /fM
ilßilliii li JH
■ : ‘ ■ r-K-'i :: ;-:
,V „ 1- '
■■ 1 I § 1
.
' 4t
.j* •- ‘ . jg,; . * . .
fir -
;
-
H -
.**Jf
Hill
Hf Jfe ii- wiK jJ *.
Upfe-
■
M
■ 1
' V, -
BiiMWf
Ii• % P 1
ff jj»? J 1 M
?■ jymiiyjl
f : ■ J
I
■
. H!
■ , : h'::;i@
■Mm.
I*
1
'M
■ **s; jj®
H»|MaM|
gii^!
I ;
Mil
| r *h?&gPi
vi : :=;:a-;, ; '-v X ■ . :
■
'Mste- 'V.V“ ~ l
lllliP'
Aad ifo / n<d4itic7i4


The Bulletin
Vol. 53. —No. 2759.
December 28, 1932.
A BIG JOB FOR THE KID.
THE BOSS: “I told you to clean the slate, Thirty-two. And look at it! You're sacked!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: IVi-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westkalia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, Ilf Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for Ifoz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
1932—1933.
The year ends far better than it began.
Irade conditions are still far from good;
but encouragement can be got from reflect-
ing upon how far we have travelled since
the middle of the year. Only eight months
ago N. S. Wales was in a state of panic;
under wild-man government none knew
what fresh madness would be next sprung
upon him; the credit of the Commonwealth
was at its lowest ebb. Coincident with a
change of Government in N. S. Wales came
a reaffirmation of Federal authority; and,
helped by a season of exceptional fruitful-
ness, a remarkable recovery of confidence
followed. Under the pressure of low prices
our sheep lands had been stocked practi-
cally to their limit, and the wheat-farmers
had planted heavily. The country responded
with a record wool clip, and a record wheat
crop is now being harvested. Prices a.re
still shockingly low; nevertheless, expressed
in sterling, they show some recovery.
It would, however, be supreme folly to
assume that we are on an upward curve
which is not likely to be broken. On our
past experience nothing is surer than that
it will be broken. Except in parts of
western Queensland, we have had three
exceptionally good years. It will be a
miracle if we have two more of the same
sort. Hitherto in the event of drought
and a. great shrinkage of staple exports we
have borrowed abroad to redress the
balance. It may be taken for granted that
that course will not be open to us for a
good many years to come: we shall have
to cut down our imports without mercy.
No matter how it is done—whether by tariff
prohibitions or through the exchange rate
—we must make up our mind that it will
have to be done. The one thing that can
make it unnecessary is a recovery in prices
before the inevitable drought hits us.
From the low levels to which panic and
forced selling had sent them, share quotations
have l’ecovered rapidly since the reduction
in interest rates and Lang’s dismissal in
N. S. Wales. There has been also a defi-
nite recovery in many industries, and
money is circulating more freely. Since
May last production by the B.H.P. steel-
works at Newcastle has picked up substan-
tially. The co., after a three vears’ spell,
has returned to the dividend list, and dur-
ing recent months there has been a great
improvement in output. Another cheering
indicator is that shareholders in the sus-
pended Federal Deposit Bank, in Brisbane,
now expect to get all their capital back,
and a dividend out of reserves. In Mel-
bourne there is more suburban building
activity than there was in the corresponding
period of either 1931 or 1930.
The textile trade is the happiest spot
amongst our secondary industries, and it
shows what could be done in normal times
if our costs would assure us our own
markets. Thanks to Scullin’s tariff, helped
by exchange, wonderful strides, technically
and financially, have been made. In the
last year Australian mills turned 252,000
bales of wool—a tenth of our total clip—
into underwear, worsteds, woollens, hosiery
and women’s dress materials. Practically
the whole local demand was supplied, and,
for the first time, crepes, marocains and
georgettes, for which France and Italy once
dominated the world’s markets, were turned
out. Many worsted mills are employing 50
• p.c. more hands than they did in the boom
years, while in the knitting and silk-hosiery
sections a similar improvement has been
shown. There has been plenty of local
competition, and prices have dropped by
about 25 p.c.; nevertheless because of the
larger turnover many cos. have got back
to the div. list after years of losses. The
industry is still largely at the mercy of
an unsettled tariff policy; but the prejudice
against Australian-made has been shat-
tered, it is hoped for good.
How things shape in 1933 will largely
depend on world prices and Government
finance. They in turn depend a great deal
upon the attitude of bondholders and mort-
gagees the world over. The burden of debt
is a millstone round the neck of nearly
every industry established or extended
when prices were high, and most borrow-
ing was done when values were around their
peak. The law takes no cognisance of the
pui'chasing power of money; hence the
great unfairness in the settlement of long-
term contracts in periods of either boom
or slump. Though, legally, creditors are
entitled to fulfilment of their contracts to
the letter, if they are prepared to make
some sacrifices—which, after all, would be
only paper sacrifices—the depression will
lift much more quickly than is otherwise
possible. Many of the banks are doing
their share. It is said that one of the
larger institutions has hardly one property
for sale.
Though domestically we are now head-
ing in the direction of recovery, disorgan-
isation of the world’s markets through
Uncle Sam’s attitude towards war debts is
likely to throw us back somewhat, though
■ perhaps not as much as other countries.
Australian Governments are making a
genuine effort to arrest the drift in public
finance, and though the railways threaten
to be a problem for years to come, a great
deal has already been done towards put-
ting Government affairs on a sounder basis.
Upon one point it seems essential that we
should make up our minds. Is it better
to keep our taxes high and maintain a large
army of superfluous public servants and a
still larger army of unemployed, or to
reduce our taxes and trust that the reduc-
tion will lead to greater private employ-
ment? It is quite obvious some Govern-
ments would prefer to take the latter
coui’se, but are afraid to put the matter
seriously to the test. There would be
no risk if a reduction of taxes were made
dependent upon an increase of employ-
ment. Under the present law everywhere
in Australia a man is penalised not for with-
holding employment which he might reason-
ably give, but for giving it.
1833 — 1932.
The year just ending is the centenary of
the English Reform Bill; and the resem-
blance between the two periods is astonish-
ing. Great wars have a habit of following
closely upon times of progress and pros-
perity. The world seems then full of
promise, and some Napoleon or Kaiser,
more ambitious than the rest, decides to
get a larger control over it—just as lesser
men in like circumstances set out to
“absorb” rival businesses. During the
actual progress of the war there is more of
a certain kind of prosperity than there is
of trade depression. Indeed, warring nations
dare not allow want and misery to show
themselves conspicuously at home. British
experience during the Napoleonic and Great
wars was therefore much the same. In the
Napoleonic period British agriculture
boomed. The price of wheat more than
doubled. No foreign grain was coming to
England; and the Corn Law was an attempt
to keep it out after Waterloo—no wheat
was to come in until the price passed 80s., a
figure which the producers tried to persuade
themselves was the new normal: it stood
.midway between the old average and the
war-time maximum. But the impoverished
Continent had ceased to be a customer for
those British manufactures which had
begun to pour out just prior to the war.
Shiploads of British goods lay on foreign
wharves unsaleable; soon factories were
closed; wages fell—the pay of Bolton
weavers, which had been 14s. in 1815, was
9s. in 1817. Midland metal-workers har-
nessed themselves to waggons of coal and
hauled them to London, thinking that all
that was needed was to evoke the pity of
the public.
/ Then the pendulum swung. Huskisson
became President of the Board of Trade
in 1823. He reduced the Customs duties
on raw materials; he abolished the restric-
tions on workmen travelling in search of a
job; he took various measures to en-
courage trade with North and South
America. So exhilarating was the change
from the repressions under which the
country had been living that a great boom
followed. The conditions were almost pre-
cisely those of our post-war boom of 1925-
26-27. Money was plentiful; credit free.
In little more than a year 120 cos. were
formed in England, with a capital of
£110,000,000. A reasonable return on the
inflated values was soon found to be impos-
sible; the more cautious sold; prices began
to fall; tradex-s reduced their orders; fac-
tories began to ration woi-k. In short,
all the features so familiar to us rapidly
presented themselves. The distress became
worse than it had been immediately after
the war.
A period of blind groping for a way out
followed. Many people threw up their
hands in despair. They could see nothing
ahead of them but revolution and chaos.
Riots occurred in many manufacturing dis-
tricts. Over-production was blamed; indus-
try had become too mechanised. Attacks
were therefore made on factories, and
much machinery was destroyed. All sorts
of plans were put forward to save the situ-
ation. Sismondi, a French writer, had in
1819 contended that what was the matter
with “capitalist society” was that “the
people are not provided with sufficient
money to buy back their products.” He'
therefore proposed the simple plan of supply-
ing them with more money. The English
Thomas Attwood had a little earlier reached
the same conclusion and now urged his
I'emedy: he would issue paper money equal
to the value of all goods produced but not
yet in the consumer’s hands. A hundred
years later the same remedies are being put
forward as brand-new discoveries.
It hardly need be said that none of the
nostrums were adopted. Instead, what was
sought above all things was to restore the
people’s confidence in themselves and their
country. To that end the Reform Bill of
1832 was brought forward. From the
small pocket boroughs 143 members of the
House of Commons were taken and given
to the counties and the greater towns —
Manchester, Birmingham, Leeds and the
like—and the franchise was liberalised and
made uniform. Popular disaffection was
further removed by an annual grant made
for the first time in 1833 in aid of ele-
mentary education. By another of many
similar measures the employment of child-
ren under nine in factories was forbidden.
Nobody knew exactly how it had happened,
but by 1835 the crisis had almost been
forgotten, and by 1837, when the girl Vic-
toria came to the throne, the whole country
was ready to look forward to a prosperous
reign.
To-day we can surely say that the men
of a hundred years ago were wise to have
resisted every encouragement to overthrow
systems which had then seemed to fail so
badly. The progress the nation has since
made is staggering. When in 1829
Brougham brought in his bill for rate-aided
schools, only 600,000 out of more than
2,000,000 children of school-going age in
England were receiving any education at
all; and most of these had only a few
hours’ a week. In 1835 of 30 schools in one
city only two were in charge of trained
teachers. In 1795, at Speenhamlands, a sort
of basic wage had been fixed. When the
“gallon loaf” (81b. 30z.) was Is., then a
man should have 3s. a week; if he did not
earn that much, it would be made up to
him from the rates. A wife and each
child were to have Is. 6d. That is to say,
a man, wife and child were reckoned to be
sufficiently paid with 6s. per week, the
equivalent of six “gallon loaves.” By 1831
this amount had been pretty generally re-
duced to 55., or five gallon loaves. In 1825
children’s hours in the cotton mills on
Saturdays were reduced from 12 to nine; in
1833 this law was extended to other fac-
tories. Down to 1842 it was not illegal to
employ women and children underground
in mines. Down to 1819 it was not illegal
to employ small girls to climb chimney-
flues in order to clean them; the practice
of employing boys for this work was never
prohibited, but was gradually suppressed by
the force of opinion in the ’thirties. In 1832
less than half a dozen towns in England
had a complete water service. During that
year there was an exceptionally bad out-
break of cholera, and a Special Board of
Health examined the sanitary state of Man-
chester. It found that of 4572 workmen’s
dwellings 1649 were without lavatory
accommodation in any form. The con-
ditions under which the workers work and
live are still far from perfect. But they
have improved enormously during the past
hundred years. It is not too much to
say that the average unemployed in Aus-
tralia has lived better during the past year
than the average fully-employed workman
did in England in 1832.
We are apt to be impatient because our
problem of unemployment is not completely
solved within a year or two. We are apt
to say that the very fact that such a prob-
lem should present itself condemns the
system of currency and every other system
under which we have lived. We are there-
fore apt to want to tear things up by the
roots. But is it fair to expect any system
to come through a world war, involving the
slaughter of millions of men and the de-
struction of thousands of millions of pro-
perty, without being rocked to its founda-
tions? Why, our very civilisation went by
the board during those four devilish years!
Men’s minds were thrown off their balance;
to a great extent they are off it still.
The, system which would come through
such circumstances and conditions without
mishap is not a system that the normal
world wants—any more than it wants the
system of government which experience has
found to answer best in a hospital for the
insane.
We are told that the world never suffered
as it is suffering to-day. Just over a hun-
dred years ago its sufferings were infinitely
worse. As we have seen, the nostrums which
are offered us to-day were offered to our
fathers then. Happily they were not
taken. Instead, our fathers went courage-
ously forward, straightening out the crooked
places, smoothing out the rough. To-day,
looking back over a century of marvellous
progress, we can thank them for their
patience and their forbearance. What shall
our children say of us a hundred years
hence?
MORE DOUGLAS CREDIT.
Montague Grover is tempted:—
The hostility of interested banks and
orthodox professors to Douglasism doesn’t
bother me. What does worry me is that
neither Professor Copland nor the banks
nor the politicians nor the Babbitts have
put forward any scheme by means of which
the production of one industry may be
exchanged for the production of another.
Douglas is the only one who has done so.
I am not a hundred per cent. Douglasite,
but I have not been able to discover one
speaker or writer, save Douglas, who has
indicated any path towards economic recov-
ery. The rest of them vapor about cancel-
ling war debts, cutting down expenses under
Premiers’ plans and similar quack remedies,
thrusting unemployed into primeval bush to
form an Australian peasantry, and that
without considering how they are to get
clothing, tools and other necessities while
their crops are growing. Others believe that
the whole world depression is psychological
and start a ballyhoo about the corner having
been turned. Meanwhile we have Mr. Mon-
tague Norman, of the Bank of England,
throwing up his hands and frankly admitting
that he knows nothing about the whole
ghastly business, in spite of the fact that
his office-boy, Otto Niemeyer, dictated the
policy of the Commonwealth.
Machine power has beaten man—that is
the outstanding fact. The whole trouble is
to facilitate the exchange of the goods which
civilisation is producing in mountainous
masses. Douglas is the only man who has
made any attempt to solve the difficulty.
The opponents of Douglas—including The
Bulletin —direct the major part of their
criticism to Douglas’s A + B theorem,
questioning Douglas’s accuracy in placing
the price of raw materials, depreciation and
other elements on one or the other side of
the equation. The Douglasites until recently
have met such criticism by the usual pro-
cess of argument, with the result that both
sides remain unconvinced. But within the
past few days E. L. Holmes, a Sydney dis-
ciple of the school, has published a pam-
phlet, “Australia’s Wealth and How to Use
It,” in which he puts the A + B theorem
in a new form. After explaining what
Douglas meant, Holmes temporarily forgets
that there is such a theorem and comes down
to plain facts as set forth in the ‘‘Common-
wealth Year-Book.” The object of the A +
B theorem is to prove that the wages,
salaries and dividends of any industry—and
of all industries—do not suffice to buy the
products of the industry. This is what has
formed the basis of all the criticisms. But
the extracts from the “Commonwealth Year-
Book” know nothing of A + B theorems;
they simply put forward the facts that in
1931 the value of goods produced in Aus-
tralia, with imports added and exports
deducted, amounted to £393,989,000; while
during the same period the known purchas-
ing power of the people of Australia made
up of wages, salaries, expenditure on
Federal and State loans and gold produced
amounted to only £254,270,275, leaving Aus-
tralia nearly £140,000,000 short of the
amount necessary to purchase its own pro-
ductions.
Now I’m waiting for the rejoinder. It
strikes me that it will be a trifle difficult
to laff that off.
A few words in reply:—•
It is a pleasure to oblige Mr. Grover.
There isn’t any difficulty to laff off. It laffs
itself off.
A man grew a sheep and sold the wool
to a local mill. That was part of the 393
millions of goods produced. He got paid
for the wool. But what he got paid wasn’t
included in the 254 millions —it is neither
wages, salary, interest nor gold. Yet it is
good money, just as good as wages or salary.
That for book-keeping purposes he cuts up
the proceeds into many items, and calls one
depreciation and another insurance, and so
on, doesn’t matter to us at all. We
are only concerned with the money;
every farthing of that is purchasing power.
The wool-buyer hands our man money
for the full amount, and with it he
buys a pair of boots. The bootmaker
buys leather from a currier, who buys
hides from a grazier. The value of
the hides is in the 393 millions of goods
produced; but the money the grazier gets
for the hides isn’t in the 254 millions, being
neither wages, salary, interest nor gold. Yet
it is perfectly good money. Every farthing of
it, too, is purchasing power, and With it he
buys a motor-truck, paying £lOO cash and
borrowing £650 from a bank. The £750 is
included in the 393 millions; but the £650
he owes the bank isn’t in the 254 millions.
So in one small round we have found that
what the sheep-grower got for his wool isn’t
included in the purchasing power; nor is
what the grazier got for his hides; nor is
what the grazier got from the bank, which
will presently be paid off by the sale of more,
hides. All that will have been included is
the small sum those graziers may have paid
in wages.
We are told that 393 millions’ worth of
goods are produced. What makes them
worth 393 millions? What does the 393
millions consist of? The labor and material
put into them, the use of the machinery,
etc., employed to produce them (that is
depreciation—a fund for replacement), in-
terest paid on capital invested in raw and
partially manufactured material, insurance,
etc. Now, all these are payments which
have been actually made; and every pay-
ment represents purchasing power. The
only item which does not represent pay-
ment actually made is the. percentage added
for profit, including interest on owner’s
invested capital. But that is not cost of
production; whether much or little is added
depends upon the abundance or scarcity of
money, including credit. In any case, last
year’s profit is available for this year’s pur-
chases. If the value of the goods produced
anywhere in any year was 393 millions,
while during the same period the purchasing
powey created was only 254 millions, then the
only explanation possible is that 139 millions
was added for producers’ profit; that is to
say, in this case the producer added 55 p.c.
to every single thing he produced as profit; and
as the figures are alleged to be for 1931, and as
the goods produced include wheat and wool
and metals, which didn’t show i p.c. profit
on production, the absurdity of the whole
thing is or ought to be apparent to Mr.
Grover and everybody else.
Mr. Grover, his friends will be sorry to
hear, has been seriously ill. If some very well-
meaning quack had made an absurd diag-
nosis of his trouble, and had told him that
what he needed was an injection of beeswax
and turpentine twice a day, would it be any-
thing to the credit of the quack that he had
offered a remedy? Or would one rather
trust the trained physician who said, “No.
I have never met a case like this before. I
cannot find any record of such a case. And
I don’t, therefore, know of any certain
remedy. _ The only thing I can do for the
patient is to watch symptoms, meet them
as they present themselves, and give nature
every chance to work a cure”?


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Nightmare of Gold.
The year has held one great disappoint-
ment. In 1930-31 it seemed as though the
whole world had realised that there was
something very wrong with our standard of
value; and there was good hope that in
1932 real steps would be taken to prevent
those sudden and violent changes in price-
levels which are responsible for so much
of the world’s financial and industrial woe.
But nothing has been done, and that part
of the economic problem looks no nearer
solution.
Forty years ago it was the scarcity of
gold which thoughtful men feared; and
out of that sprang the movement to restore
silver to its old place in a bimetallic
currency. At that time not only America
but Europe was deeply stirred by the
“silver trumpeting” of William Jennings
Bryan and others. But circumstances
could not have been less kind to the bi-
for Mt. Morgan was succeeded
by Kalgoorlie and the Ivlondyke, and the
Rand began to pour out more gold than
had been won from all the other fields of
the world put together: in very little over
40 years the world’s stock of gold has been
trebled —a most amazing performance. In
a general way the great gold discoveries of
the past seemed to have been followed by
periods of high prices. But high prices did
not follow quickly upon the great gold
output of the ’nineties and the first years
of this century. True, judged by our own
wool market, there was a slight hardening
from the middle of the ’nineties onwards:
1886-95, 7.5 d.; 1896-1905, Bd.; 1906-15,
9.7 d. But the last of these decades opened
with higher average prices than it closed.
After that, of course, there was a tre-
mendous rise in prices. In 1911-12 the
average for our wool was 8.7 d.; between
1916-17 and 1919-20 it was 16.4 d.; by 1924-
25 it was 25.2 d.; for the whole 1921-29
period it averaged 18.8 d. But then, though
gold continued to be poured out in as large
quantity as ever, the price of wool, as of
practically every other commodity, fell
50 per cent, or more. It has been made
quite clear that the mere production of
gold does not regulate prices.
Yet it has also been made clear that
gold is still an enormous factor in world-
affairs. The English £ is worth $3.27 instead
of $4.86 not because Britain is any poorer
than it was, but because it lacks gold. It
is utterly absurd to suppose that Australia
has lost more wealth comparatively than
the U.S.A. during the past three years.
Yet whereas the Australian £ was in 1930
worth $4.86, to-day it is worth only $2.61.
A country may have more assets per head
of population than the average; it may
have far greater earning capacity per head
than the average. Yet its currency may
be depreciated in terms of the currency of
another country which has fewer assets and
less earning capacity per head of popula-
tion. The richest country in the world,
with productive assets many times greater
than its foreign debts, may thus find its
currency at a heavy discount. This is
obviously very absurd.
The rich men who make the best use
of their wealth—the best, that is, for the
community—rarely have a .credit balance at
a bank. Most of them have more or less
heavily pledged their resources to extend
their business. It is the bank’s business
to see that its good, solvent customer’s
credit is maintained: it would be almost a
crime for it to allow such a man’s cheques
to be picked up at 10s. in the £ unless it
was itself in difficulties. There ought to be
some institution in the world whose busi-
ness it should be to do the same with the
nations’ credit and currency.
The Blessings of Idleness.
Bertrand Russell has joined the army of
eccentrics and poseurs who sing the praises
of idleness. In Russia, he says, hard labor
over long hours is all very well, because
Russia is industrially backward; but “in
the West” —meaning, of course, western
Europe—“a position has been reached,
owing to the perfection of the machine,
such that, if - all the people were to work
all the time, there would be huge over-
production.” Russell’s solution is, in effect,
to regularise unemployment: he proposes
a four-hour day, with more education, so
that a man may use his daily period of
unemployment intelligently.
There probably never was a time when
some men did not say what this man has
just said. The generation to which the
speaker has belonged has always been so
clever that, adding its discoveries and in-
ventions to the discoveries and inven-
tions which have gone before, all human
wants were surely satisfied: man could not
possibly make use of more than he had.
To-day we look back upon those dark
ages and wonder how our forefathers put
up with their discomforts and inconveni-
ences and deprivations. To-morrow it is as
certain people will look back pityingly
upon Bertrand Russell and ask one another
to imagine the conceit of the man who
thought that he and his generation had
supplied a.ll possible needs.
Certainly there is over-production here
and there, but that is not because the
world is doing too much, but because it
is doing too much of some things and not
enough of others. To say that the world
has too much of everything is grotesquely
absurd. Not one-half of the population is
even respectably housed. Not one-third
of it has enough comfortable furniture.
The test of whether there is over-production
even of those things that we know about
is quite simple: has Bertrand Russell
who is in fact Earl Russell —-any comforts
and conveniences which millions of other
men- and women in Britain alone have not
got, and under present conditions have no
hope of getting? If he has, then the world
is under-supplied with a vast number of
things we know about. And there are prob-
ably more things we don’t know about
than we do know about.
Of course it is answered that the mil-
lions don’t get the things that Earl Rus-
sell has because they can’t afford to buy
them. But that is only evading the ques-
tion. They can’t afford to buy them be-
cause they are too scarce and therefore too
dear. If motor-cars cost £5OOO each only a
handful of British people would own them.
If they were £5O there would be twice as
many of them as there are. If Bertrand
Russell’s books were set by hand and printed
by hand and delivered over the country
by horse-drawn vehicles, they might cost
£5 each. Even now they may cost 10s.
each; and if men worked only four hours
a day they would probably never be less
than 10s. But if men work seven or eight-
hours, it is possible that the books will
presently be so cheapened by improved
machinery that thousands of people may
read them who nowadays never have that
satisfaction.. This, at any rate, is certain:
the four-hour day is calculated to restrict
production and thus keep up the price
of the product; and it is the price of most
products—Russell’s books included—which
stop most people from buying them.
There are people in the South Seas who
do not work more than two hours a day.
They are quite satisfied: a few bananas
and cocoanuts and sweet potatoes are
about all the food they need. If they want
more they must work more. In the same
way, if the world is satisfied with what it
has and the way in which it lives, it can
manage quite well, no doubt, with a four-
hour day. But if the world believes that
nine-tenths of its. inhabitants could well do
with a great deal more than they have,
then it must close its ears to the _ stupid
talk about over-production and seek instead
a better and a wider distribution. •
*
A Farm Mortgage Corporation.
Mr. E. Aitcx-iison, of Adelaide, makes a
suggestion that should command study:—
During a visit to London in 1930 I was
much impressed by the Agricultural Mort-
gage Corporation, formed two years pre-
viously. This corporation, which was
established with a capital of £600,000, sub-
scribed by 10 leading banking institutions,
including the Bank of England, operates
under a charter, and is guaranteed by the
Treasury. It was empowered to offer long-
term debenture stock, most of which was
taken up by insurance and trustee cos. and
others looking for gilt-edged securities. The
purpose was to lend to agriculturists, on the
security of their land, at lowest possible
rates of interest.
The last statement I have that
debenture stock, maturing in from 30 to
40 years, for £10,500,000 has been issued,
while loans made on agricultural security
amounted to approximately £10,000,000. The
board then included Sir Wm. Goschen and
Sir Otto Niemeyer. The chairman, Sir
Alfred Lewis, speaking at the last annual
meeting, said : “I think it would be difficult
to find anything that has been done, in this
exceedingly difficult period, in the direction
of helping the country in one of its great
industries, which has proved so successful.
An opinion like this from such an authority,
backed by his co-directors, makes the subject
worthy of most earnest consideration.
While the savings banks and other insti-
tutions in Australia do make loans of this
description to primary producers, there is a
certain hesitancy, mainly due to a lack of
definite knowledge of land values, and a ten-
dency, when money is temporarily plentiful
and competition keen, to accept valuations
that eventually prove irregular. Few insti-
tutions can afford the expense of an organi-
sation to assure a uniformity of valuation
that would check undue liberality at one
time, tending to inflation, and undue care-
fulness at another, tending in the opposite
direction.
Conditions in Australia in the banking
world are somewhat parallel to those in
England, and if the Associated Banks,
backed by the- Commonwealth Bank, would
sponsor such an undertaking, the big life
and fire offices would, no doubt, be willing
to subscribe to the debenture issues with a
much greater feeling of security than they
do at present when making advances direct.
Under such a system, once the operations
become sufficiently large, the difference in
the borrowing and lending rates could be
reduced, due mainly to confidence in the
security and reductions in costs of manage-
ment.
If interest rates continue to fall for Gov-
ernment stocks, I think such a corporation
in Australia could put off its debenture stock
at a rate that would enable borrowers to
obtain substantial relief in costs of produc-
tion.
The outstanding advantages would be: —
(1) Rates of interest sufficiently low for loans
over long periods to materially assist the rehabili-
tation of the primary industry, giving security of
tenure to farmers availing themselves of the Cor-
poration’s operations.
(2) The standardisation of rates of interest on
agricultural mortgages, generally benefiting those,
too, who do not come within the immediate scope
of the Corporation’s operations.
(3) The standardisation of district, State and
inter-State land values.
(4) The elimination of competition in overlapping
mortgage finance, making for economical overhead
and administrative charges.
(5) The resources of a powerful Mortgage Corpora-
tion would be sufficient to carry the primary industry
through a period of depression.
The time is opportune for initiating such
a project.
“Chains” and “Cash-and-Carries.”
The growth of the chain, store is one of
the outstanding features of recent life in
Australia; and with the chain store has
come the independent cash-and-carry. They
were not the offspring of the depression;
but they have shown themselves exception-
ally well suited to the hard circumstances
of the day. They are indeed the only
group of traders who can be said to have
made as good or almost as good profits
after the crash as they did during the
boom. Nor is the Australian experience
unique in that respect. In America 43
chain stores last year made, profits in excess
of 20 millions sterling, an average of over
p.c. on their capital. They may not
be an unmixed blessing; but obviously they
are doing something which the public wants
done.
When the world settles down it looks as
if its producers and traders will have to face
keener competition than ever they had
before. Not only was tremendous progress
made in the mechanisation of industry
during the post-war years, but every great
country has been employing these last few
years of slump to get ready for the new
normal; and the preparation has consisted
chiefly of cutting out waste. Almost every-
where it is recognised that there has been
very much of this * waste in distribution.
More attention than ever before is therefore
being given to the costs of distribution,
partly because of their direct effect on the
marketed article, but especially because the
producer is a consumer, too, and as such
must bear the cost of distribution and pass
it on to his own product.
This weight upon the producer is extra-
ordinarily heavy in Australia. Our country
population has hardly any secondary indus-
tries and practically all manufactured
goods have to be freighted to them
from the seaboard; and for their part
seaboard people have to draw most of their
food supplies from inland. Freight charges
are thus piled high; and the higher because
the carriage must be done by railway sys-
tems burdened with a very large proportion
of hopelessly unpayable lines. Some of our
high costs of distribution being thus beyond
our immediate control, it is all the more
necessary to cut dowp. such costs as still
remain within our control. To the extent
that the chain store cuts out superfluous
wholesale costs and reduces overhead, it
is thus a national gain. But it is. still a
greater national gain in so far as it (and
here it is joined by the independent cash-
and-carry) cuts down the absurdly extrava-
gant costs of retail delivery. It is doubt-
ful if there is another country in which
costs are so largely added to by delivery
charges. In hundreds of towns of Europe
90 p.c. of the fruit and vegetable buying,
for instance, is done in the markets without
the intervention of shops, and delivery is
taken at the stall as a matter of course.
Australia has simply got to realise that
it cannot add to its costs in this or any
other way and compete with its rivals who
don’t know those costs. In the past we
have not been really competing with them
at all. If we were 40 millions short of
paying our way overseas, as we were in one
recent year, then we simply borrowed the
money. That spring has run dry. It would
not be quite so difficult if it were only
a case of being thrown on our own re-
sources; but besides paying our way we
have to find interest on the debts which
we incurred in the past because we didn’t
pay our way.
Vale Binghi!
In spite of every effort to check the down-
ward curve, the abo. population of Queens-
land is steadily diminishing. The Registrar-
General’s report, compiled to June 30 last,
shows that the estimated number of full-
blooded abos. in Queensland was then
13,355, a decrease of 299 on the previous
year and of 687 on 1931. The figures may
not be quite accurate, since the natives in
parts of the State, and especially in the
Cape York Peninsula, are still living their
old nomadic life; but the error, if any,
should be small.
The persistent decrease is the more dis-
heartening since Queensland was one of the
pioneers in practical endeavor to safeguard
the vanishing race. Forty years ago the
Aborigines’ Protection Act was passed, the
first of its kind in Australia. One import-
ant departure was that, while mission activi-
ties were recognised, and in a lesser degree
the aboriginal reserve system under State
control, the native was encouraged to strike
out for himself instead of living as a pauper
on the charity of the white man. A
number of aborigines worked on the
northern and north-western cattle stations.
The Act required employers to register
these, pay a fixed wage and furnish peri-
odical returns. There was no camouflage
about the wages either. These had to be
paid to the local protector, who banked
them in the earner’s name and made
advances to him as the occasion warranted.
This system fairly put an end to that
exploitation of the abo. worker which is
still going on in some parts.
Of the three Queensland State reserves,
Murgon, Palm Island and Woorabinda, it
can be said that they are at least a haven
for the unemployable native. He is en-
couraged to work after a fashion, and sport
and games are not denied him. It is worth
noting that in these three State reserves
the full-blooded abo. population increased
by 61 for the year ending June 30 last.
There are 11 mission-controlled stations
and reserves, and on these the full-bloods
decreased by 16. There is probably some
significance in the recorded fact that
whereas in the Government settlements
the half-caste population decreased by 32,
in the missions and mission-controlled
reserves it increased by 54. The lesson
seems to be that work to which he is suited
and to which he inclines is the best barrier
between the aborigine and the gulf into
which he must disappear one day. _ The
dole is as fatal to him as it must be in the
long run to his white brethren.
; ♦
Premier Argyle and the Teachers.
“Jon Gee”: “I resent very much that the
teachers should have gone out of their way
to deal with matters which do not concern
them,” said the Premier of Victoria a few
days ago; “the question of fees for secondary
education has nothing whatever to do with
the Teachers’ Union, and I consider it very
unfortunate that servants of the State
should think fit to criticise the Government
on matters of policy.” The reference was
to the annual report of J. L. Griffiths, presi-
dent of the Vic. Teachers’ Union. Griffiths’s
comments on the Fees Bill, as reported,
form a sane and restrained statement of the
case against charging increased fees at State
secondary schools; and it would have been
so regarded had it come from anyone but a
State servant.
It will, I think, be conceded that the
public is entitled to the best expert opinion
on matters of Government policy. Dr. Argyle
himself has frequently spoken authori-
tatively on matters about which he has
special knowledge, such as public health
and hospitals. On education, where may
this expert opinion be obtained? It is
certainly not in the Cabinet, nor is it in
the offices of the newspapers. To secure it
we must go to the employees of State Edu-
cation Departments or to educationists who
are not under State control. Australian
University teachers outside of the faculties
of Education have little knowledge of edu-
cation, and members of the faculties are
usually State employees. Teachers in the
Great Public Schools and teachers in
private schools may well be suspected of
restricted outlook and bias in the matter
dealt with by Griffiths. Finally, comment
by employees of the Education Department
of one State on educational matters in an-
other State is almost unknown. Therefore,
we are in grave danger of limiting thought
on educational problems if we prevent
State servants from expressing opinions be-
cause the Government regards the subject
of discussion as a “matter of policy.”
State Departments encourage teachers to
study education, yet our system of State
control permits only one or two senior
officers to tender direct advice to the Gov-
ernment. Anonymous opinions published in
newspapers lack authority, yet State em-
ployees fear to express individual opinions
opposed to the policy of the department.
If the public is to be deprived of the
opinions of the Teachers’ Union, may there
not be danger of reactionary legislation in-
imical to the welfare of the State? Control
of education by municipal councils or
other local bodies would produce big dis-
advantages for country districts, but it
would give freedom of thought to public
educationists, for the man whose opinions
offended his employer would have the
chance of a post in another educational
service.
♦
Simplification of Taxation.
“Mudgee”: Recently The Bulletin sug-
gested that practical ideas on the simplifica-
tion of taxation would be helpful; and as I
cannot give evidence before Justice Ferguson,
I hope you will give my idea publicity. It
is that all statistical returns, all company
returns, all applications for registration and
all taxation returns be sent in at the one
time, on the one form, and to the one
authority; and, as complementary to this,
that-the collection of all these returns be
in the first instance local.
As one who knows these forms and
understands their purposes, and who fills
in many every year, I have no hesitation
in saying that all (except perhaps the
wheat prospect return) could be and should
be reduced to one. A central authority
could deal with each and give out the
required information to other authorities.
And if it is thought wise to continue the
fiction of the secrecy of income, then the
central authority could be, and possibly in
any case should be, the Commissioner of
Taxation. Company returns could be in-
cluded in a supplementary form or a special
company form and sent in at the same
time. The result would be much less annoy-
ance and bad temper on the part of the
taxpayer, less expense and less waste on the
part of the tax-gatherer, and very much
more accuracy.
But an essential element of success is
local collection. There are many who do
not send in taxation returns at all. There
are those who dodge the P.P. Board and
the income tax assessor; but even these do
not dodge the motor registration or the
dairy registration or the completion of the
A. and P. returns. The reason, of course,
is that the police, the local authority, col-
lect the last three, while the other two are
administered and collected at a distance.


\
VW
mm
“I’ve been smoking them for
over five years and have never
found them vary one iota!”
CRAVEN “A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
POLITICAL
POINTS
The first big job of McPhec, the new
Federal Statist, was to issue a report on
Commonwealth employment figures. He
found that the figures show a definite im-
provement in N. S. Wales, Vic. and South
Aus., and most of all, Mr. Lang will, of
course, be glad to know, in N. S. Wales.
The best test there is factory .employment:
the index in September was higher than it.
had been since the middle of 1930. In short,
three months after Lang had been thrown
out employment had so improved that the
figures were better than they had been at
any time during the year and a half that
that calamity was in office.
The Lang crowd has made the painful dis-
covery that the unemployed don’t love it, and
are particularly hostile to “the inner group”
(Graves, Garden and co.), whose ascendancy
is threatened. On the other hand, its rela-
tions with the other Labor faction (Coates’s)
have improved so greatly that it is now a
question whether there is another Labor fac-
COATES: “What have we done for you?
Haven’t we saved you from having to
pay twenty thou’ for that property you
agreed to buy?”
CONCANNON : “And haven’t we preserved
the tin-hare bookmaker for you?
You’re ungrateful, man — ungrateful.”
tion. They united in the interests of wealthy
Friends of the Workers when it was pro-
posed to hold these gentry to contracts for
the purchase of property exceeding £lO,OOO
in value which Lang authorised them to re-
pudiate ; and the same beautiful unanimity
would have been shown if the abolition of
night betting had been attempted. The out-
of-work fails to see how this tender con-
sideration for pony-racing plutocrats and the
tin-hare interest will benefit him.
Lee, who was Minister for Justice (and
occasionally Injustice) in the Bavin Minis-
try, vainly asked the N.S.W. Assembly to say
that it disapproved of Bruxner’s scheme to
“extend Government undertakings by the
socialisation of ’buses,” Brux. having decided
to buy 50 of the vehicles. Of course, a strong
case can be made out against socialisation;
but a stronger can be made out against a
system which gives the State the trams and
allows private enterprise to cut m with
’buses. The one dead-sure thing about city
and suburban passenger transport is that to
get the best results the whole box-and-dice
must be under one control.
Following the bad Federal-aid roads pre-
cedent, Lyons and Latham decided to grant
£2,000,000 to wheat-farmers and fixed the
amount that each wheatgrowing State should
receive, leaving it to the local Governments
to distribute the money, except that they
were not to pay bounties. _ The South Aus.
Government plaintively pointed out that its
Parliament had held its last session, and if
an enabling bill were necessary there was
no way of getting it passed. While doubt-
ful of the legal position it has taken the
responsibility of making a preliminary dis-
tribution at the rate of Is. 6d. _an acre of
the area sown this year, reserving another
£30,000 for farmers who lost most of their
crops because of red rust and take-all. The
Westralian Government is also handing out
Is. 6d. an acre to settlers “in immediate
need.” Opposition-leader iCollier says they
are all in that position.
If wheatgrowers are to be given so much
an acre, they ought to get it on what they
sowed two seasons ago rather than on what
they sowed this year. Or they should be
paid on their average for three years. Other-
wise men who did not put in crops in 1930,
or who planted a few acres merely, will fare
far better than farmers who, relying on
the promise of 4s. a bushel, grew more wheat
in 1930 than they ever grew before —and
lost so heavily that they have had to cur-
tail the.ir operations since. The Common-
wealth Government promised them the 4s. a
bushel, and the Commonwealth Government
should shoulder the full responsibility of
helping them, instead of shirking the distri-
bution part. In a sense the £2,000,000 is
a tardy instalment of what it undertook to
pay in 1930, and -the least it can do is to
see that the men who were fooled in 1930
get their fair share.
On the last day of the session the N.S.W.
Stevens Government rounded up sufficient
Leg. Councillors to carry the Meat Industry
Bill, which had been shelved the previous
week. It provides for the removal of Scott,
Kay and Hutt, the three political gentlemen
whom Lang put on the Metropolitan Meat
Board, and the appointment of a Commis-
sioner responsible to Parliament, with an
unpaid council to give him advice. The
three political gentlemen are to get compen-
sation. Heaps of people get compensation
in N. S. Wales; the only party who never
gets any is the taxpayer.
These politicians can’t break themselves
of the habit of making new appointments
to the already tremendously overweighted
public service; and Stevens’s record in that
respect is as bad as most. His N.S.W. Gov-
ernment has just decided to buy 50 ’buses
to dovetail in with the trams and trains; yet,
though it had the whole bloated public ser-
vice to choose from—and it must contain
scores of good traffic men —somebody had to
be brought in from outside as “manager of
Government ’bus services.”
Bermuda’s reply to the proposal of the
American politician McFadden that it should
be surrendered to Uncle as something off
the war debt is to' concert plans for clapping
prohibitive tariffs on U.S. food products
and getting its requirements from Canada.
The plucky little colony depends a lot on
the American tourist, but it would rather
lose him for ever than go out of the British
Empire or let it down at a critical hour.
There are still people in the world to whom
loyalty and pride of race mean more than
the dahlars which to the McFaddens, of
Washington, are all-in-all.
Maoriland, like Australia, owes the Old
Man a war bill, and when Uncle said the
Hoover moratorium had expired (his debtors
don’t admit it), it offered to resume the pay-
ments. The reply was a magnanimous
refusal, the “Times” declaring handsomely
that “no British Government could consent
to give to partner countries in the Empire
less favorable treatment than to foreign
countries whose payments have been sus-
pended.” When John proposed to Jonathan
the cancellation of all inter-Government war
debts, the Dominions were, of course, in-
cluded. Lang must have known this, yet
he paid Jonathan and “scaled” John.
Westralian Premier Mitchell informs the
wheatgrowers that the Federal grant ought to
be worth 2s. 6d. an acre to them, and says
something about supplementing it with a
flour tax. Opposition-leader Collier tells the
B OTH: “Take my bone, Towser — there’s
more meat on it.”
farmers that if he were in office he would
give them another £lOO,OOO and dare the
Loan Council to dishonor his Government’s
cheque. Yes, the gentlemen are preparing
for a general election. .
Victoria’s Argyle Government has reached
recess, but is still dazed after its experi-
ences on the Mortgages Bill. That measure
was vitally amended at the instance of the
Government’s Cocky “supporters”; then the
Leg. Council amended the amendments; then
the Assembly did some more hacking in a
confused way—on one clause Labor helped
the Government to beat its Agrarian “sup-
porters.” A sort of agreement was patched
up at a conference between representatives
of both Houses, and the bill and the Gov-
ernment were saved; but it was a fearful
strain.
“Mr. Lang refused to attend the festivities in the
Parliamentary refreshment-room at the close of the
session.”
“I was Father Christmas last year, and the
year before. I’ve got to be Father
Christmas or I don’t play.”
The Local Authorities Act passed by the
Forgan Smith party contains the peculiar
provision that no employee of a local
authority may be a member of a shire or
municipal council. In all Queensland there
is only one man to whom it applies—Aider-
man Gill, of Townsville, who has no* use for
Labor politics. Gill is clerk of an adjacent
shire, and must now either give up his job
or quit being an alderman. H’e blames
Hynes, member for Townsville, who is also
a Minister, for his disqualification, from’
which civil-service Laborites are, of course,
exempt.
Even the “S. M. Herald” is beginning to
realise that to force the depreciation of
currency in the interests of exporters isn’t
quite the clean potato. When practised by
Japan, the good old paper calls it dumping,
and announces that the practice is having
a very serious effect o.n British textiles in
India, where the dumped goods are being
poured. It quotes the “Statist,” which is
obviously astonished that the movement
should receive “the passive if not the active
support of the Japanese authorities.” The
“Herald” had better reason to be shocked
at N. S. Wales, which was forcing down
the value of the £ in the interests of ex-
porters and at the same time insisting upon
Dorman Long taking payment for the Bridge
in the deliberately debased currency.
At the instance of a Lang-planner named
Paddison the N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation,
which is registered as an industrial union,
has given its council “power to expel any
member deemed unfit for membership”—per-
haps because he isn’t a Lang-planner. And
when (or if) Paddison’s crowd returns to
the Treasury benches and insists on all Gov-
ernment employees being unionists, expelled
members will presumably be sacked. If any
expelling is done while the present Govern-
ment is in office that possibility ought to
be realised and provided against.
A clause of Queensland Labor’s Arbi-
tration Apt forbids employees of a company
to accept gifts of shares unless the Court
permits; and it may be unhealthy to seek
permission. This is a new development of
Labor politics and “the class-war.” The
idea apparently is that if the wage-plug is
kept a wage-plug he will remain class-con-
scious and vote the ticket. Bonus shares
will transform him' into a bloated capitalist,
and his vote will be lost to the Cause.
Ex-Premier Hogan has issued a writ against
the members of the Vic. A.L.P. executive who
pronounced his expulsion. He asks for a
declaration that he is still a member of the
party, and for an injunction to restrain the
defendants from denying him the rights of
membership. It was given out recently that
an attempt would be made at the Labor
conference to be held early in 1933 to have
the “exclusion” of Hogan. Bond, Kiernan,
Williams and Bailey annulled.
Archbishop Duhig complains that a lot of
the Queensland unemployed-relief money is
being wasted. He suggests that the Govern-
ment would get a better return by letting
religious bodies have long-term loans, at a
low rate of interest, for building and repairs.
So it would, no doubt; still, the allocation
of loans would be an invidious job, and other
difficulties would perhaps arise. A too-ambi-
tious religious body might overbuild and get
hopelessly behind with the interest. Another
might reply to repeated requests for payment
that the” money had been lent to the Lord
and that the Government would be requited
in another world. In either case there would
be a delicacy about putting in a bailiff to
take up the collection.
Charity covers a multitude of sins, but
not half as many as the good old depres-
sion. The Development and Migration
Commission explored the proposal to build
the Nowingi railway (Vie.) : it said settlers
might be lured to the area, but they wouldn’t
make a living, and “the adverse effects which
settlement under such conditions would have
upon the settlers and their families” ought
to damn the scheme for ever. Yet the
Hogans built the line, because somebody was
clamoring for a job, and it hasn’t carried
a wheat train yet, and probably never will.
Now it comes out that the Glenmaggie Weir,
in the same State, estimated to cost quarter
of a million, has already cost over a million.
Still, the politician hopes that if he cackles
loudly enough about the depression the!
public will forget his own share in these
matters.
Although Maoriland’s Reserve Bank Bill
will not be debated in Parliament till Feb-
ruary at the earliest, it is being debated out-
side whether the new bank will do what
the Bank of New Zealand has firmly refused
to do, and send the exchange rate skyward.
Niemeyer recommended the appointment of a
Currency and Exchange Board to stabilise
exchange, but deliberate inflation of cur-
rency is a horse of another color. In any
event the Government’s business will be
transferred from the New Zealand, in which
it owns a controlling interest, to the Reserve
Bank, over which, according to the Nie-
meyer recipe, it must have no control what-
ever.
Premier Argyle, who is also Health Minis-
ter, can scarcely regard the substantial fall
in Victoria’s birthrate as a sign of progress,
although it is a sign of the times. For the
nine months to Sept. 30 birth's numbered
20,557, as compared with 23,017 and 24,997
for the corresponding periods of 1931 and
1930. For the July-Sept. quarter the num-
ber was the lowest for 48 years. Still, the
infantile death rate (44.22 per 1000 births)
was the lowest on record.
W. M. Hughes turned up in Sydney just
before Christmas, and said he had come back
with some hope of the League of Nations,
more of the Ottawa agreement and a greater
belief than ever in Australia and the British
“Here I am again, Australia!”
Empire. Australia would like to hear more
from the little man on these and kindred
subjects, but will have to wait a while—an
unlucky fall in his garage has cost him a
broken leg.
Barmera and Wanbi, two rising towns on
the Murray in S.A., have convinced the Lic-
ensing Court that they deserve a hotel license
apiece. They will buy their drinks on the
Renmark plan, by which the community gets
all the profits for hospital maintenance and
local improvements.
Not only individuals are going back to
barter. Italy and Turkey have been dis-
cussing how Turkey is to pay for some
destroyers built in Italy. Mussolini has
agreed to take the next instalment of
£lOB,OOO in Turkish tobacco.
The N.S.W. and all other Australian Labor
parties are supposed to stand four-square for
the socialisation of public utilities ; but when
the other day Lee, a N.S.W. Government
supporter, asked the House to disapprove of
the Government’s purchase of ’buses, the
Langs voted for the motion protesting
against socialisation. Under our fine system
an Opposition of bishops would be expected
to vote against the Ten Commandments if
such a thing would embarrass the Govern-
ment.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Harold Hardupp”: The Christmas spirit
catches some people early, and with surpris-
ing violence. One delinquent turned up
in a Sydney court last week —it was
mentioned that he was wanted in two
CHRISTMAS GREETINGS!
KID: “Mum and dad call you Santa Claus.”
VISITOR: “Do they really? Why?”
KID: “Well, ain’t you goin’ to marry my sister?”
others when this one had done with
him. The charges included riotous behavior,
drunkenness, assault, malicious damage, and
one or two offences involving motor-cars,
and the man in the dock presented such a
battered appearance that the magistrate was
moved to inquire:. “How did you get your
face in such a frightful condition?” The
damaged one pondered for a moment. “It’s
Christmas, your Worship,” he explained
helpfully.
“C.Q.”: A Melbourne Court recently had
to decide whether the legatee to a soldier’s
will could be the testator’s fiancee and an-
other man’s wife at one and the same time.
The Digger returned from France maimed
and bedridden. The girl he was engaged to
stuck to him for many years; eventually he
implored her not to waste her life further
but to get married. At first she refused, but
subsequently followed his advice. However,
she did not tell him of her marriage; his
death' was near, and she wanted to spare
him pain. She said she was going to Sydney,
and even got her letters to him readdressed
from there, though she was living in Mel-
bourne. In his will the soldier left '£7s to
“my fiancee.” The Judge decided she was
entitled to have it, and added a few approv-
ing words on her delicate behavior.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Sitting for your portrait in
mid-air has its disadvantages. Mrs. Bonney
posed for a photo. 1200 ft. above Wangaratta.
The cameraman was in another ’plane, piloted
by H. C. Owens. In manoeuvring for a close-
up, Mrs. Bonney let her port lower wing
touch Owens’s rudder. Owens and his pas-
senger went into a spin and only came out
of it when within 100 ft. of terra frma. The
Air Accidents Investigation Committee has
sent the Queensland airwoman a please-
explain.
:j: $ - :J:
“Wart”: A few weeks ago The Bulletin
published one of the last of Alf Vincent’s
drawings. In turning out my bookcase I
came across some of the first—“ Exhibition
Sketches,” published in 1891, ivhen Alf was
working in a sharebroker’s office in Laun-
ceston. Even in those days liis work was
amazingly good. “Exhibition Sketches” con-
sisted mostly of caricatures of people
connected with the Tas. Exhibition, held
in Launceston in ’9l-’92. Some of Alt’s
victims were (Commissioner Du Bear and
his colored valet C'hokey Nuroo, who
now keeps a pub on the East Coast;
A. Day, H. B. Hardy, and Scott, who repre-
sented Britain, N.S.W. and Vic.; Launces-
ton’s most popular Mavor, Sammy Sutton,
who is shown climbing a greasy pole with
K.C.M.G. at the top (he never reached it) ;
Alderman Peter McCracken, who also repre-
sented Launceston in the Leg. Council;
artist Gladstone Ayre; Charlie Morris of
the Hobart “Clipper”; Alexander Wallace,
city bandmaster, and other prominent busi-
ness people. Of all these Nuroo is, as far
as I know, the only survivor.
“Pink Tape”: Most big papers are still
“printed and published” by some unknown
Jolfn Brown “for the proprietors.” Suits
to recover damages for libel are not, as a
rule, brought against the inconspicuous
Brown; but if it is a criminal matter and a
case of taking it out of somebody’s hide, then
plain John comes in handy. But the Law
seems to be getting less disposed to swallow
the ancient deception. In two. cases lately
the High Court has refused to hold the John
Brown of the paper responsible for what
•was printed, and when Brisbane “Telegraph”
was lately in trouble it was M. L. Reading,
the editor, who was charged with sedition,
though his name doesn’t appear on the sheet.
The whole tendency in criminal matters
seems to be to get at the men really re-
sponsible, and not at the inconsequential
John Browns. But on the civil side the
Law is still liable to deliver a hefty punch
to somebody who has had little to do with
the libel. 'The other day a Sydney paper
was in trouble with “Wizard” Smith, a
motorist; it was charged with having made
allegations of cowardice against him, and
the wizard was awarded damages. But it so
happened that. the paper had made an
arrangement with the Sydney State-owned
trams to display contents bills; and on one
such bill there was a reference to the wizard
and a yellow flag. Having got a decision
that what had been said was a libel, the
wizard fired in a writ against the Transport
Commission—they had helped to circulate
the libel. The case didn’t go to a hearing;
the Commission came into court with an
acknowledgment that it had done wrong, and
the wizard let it go. at that, on the Com-
mission paying his costs. Much the same
sort of law applies to newsvendors. A
newspaper like The Bulletin with an all-
Australian circulation must exclude various
advertisements because in this or that State
they are prohibited. Thus a newspaper,
A COW-COUNTRY LYRIC.
MILLIE: “I suppose holdin’ me like this gives you a real thrill, Bill?”
BILL: “My oath it does! Makes me feel as if all the cows was doubling their milk.”
though printed in Sydney, dare not publish
an advertisement about a State lottery and
send it to Adelaide, because the newsvendor
who helped to circulate it there would be
liable to a heavy tine. Incidentally, a N.
S. Wales paper which printed an advertise-
ment about the Queensland Golden ■ Casket
would be also liable, though it might fill
a whole sheet with stories about .its own
State’s lottery.
“Y” : The expression “All sirgarneo!” (B.
21/12/’32) was London slang in the ’seven-
ties. I have a copy of an old music-hall
song each chorus of which ends up with :
All sirgarneo they are, so help me Bob!
For Mother and me and the family
Have all been on the job.”
;;j *
“Ike Mcßagg”: What odds would the
alleged “leviathans” of our betting rings
lay against the following happen-
ing? In a contest for model aero-
planes held at Randwick, well to
the south of Sydney Harbor,' one
’plane disappeared from sight after
reaching an estimated height of
3000-odd feet. It was given up
as lost, but when the owner got
home to Cremorne, on the north
side of Port Jackson, he found that
his ’plane was there before him.
It had landed in a garden 50 or GO
yards from the home of the club
squadron-leader, whose name and
address were written on it, and a
few hundred yards from its owner’s
home.
* * * *
“Jeviel” : There is sound reason
behind Kingsford-Smith’s decision to
t ake-off from Gorringong (N.S.W.)
beach for his flight to M.L. next
month. Long-distance fliers have
their worst time when the ’plane,
with its heavy load of petrol, must
be patiently coaxed off the ground
while approaching the obstructions
which fringe most aerodromes.
Hence, a long flat, firm beach is
always preferable to the aerodrome
proper. Smith chose the sand for
his take-off from Hawaii during the
Pacific flight, and from Ireland for his
Atlantic crossing. Mollison’s crash at Dar-
win on his first attempt to reach England
and Hans Bertram’s recent mishap at
Sourabaya show the danger of trying to lift
hravily-loaded machines from restricted run-
ways.
“0.R.” : Lawrence Adamson (B. 21/12/’32)
learned at Rugby how much damage can
he done by a weak or inefficient headmaster.
The school was under a cloud when Adam-
son went there, and it furnishes probably
the only example in the public-school history
of last century of a head being forcibly shot
out by the governing board. A certain Dr.
Hayman was the offender; he was a fine
scholar, but the boys insisted on treating
him as a joke. It was said that he was
wont to come out of chapel o’ mornings try-
ing to look serenely unconscious that a hun-
dred boys were hanging on to the tails of
his gown, like trainbearers at a wedding.
Finally the trustees “suspended Hayman for
fear of more decay,” as some humorist put
it. The ejected dominie contested the deci-
sion in the courts, and though he got no
verdict he received a lot of sympathy, and
Disraeli gave him a fat clerical living as a
solatium. It took years for Rugby to recover
the status and prestige it had lost, but this
was effected in Adamson’s time under the
stately and impressive Jex-Blake
* * * *
“Styx”: Suicides from Sydney Harbor
Bridge might be less appallingly frequent if
it were not a public thoroughfare. In most
parts of the world it is hard to hurl oneself
from an immense hejght for nothing. A man
recently made a fatal leap from tlie top of the
Empire State Building in New York, the
highest skyscraper in the world, but it cost
him six shillings to get to his objective,, a
toll which might well have deterred a less
determined suicide. Headers of “Kipps” will
remember that the hero of H. G. Wells’s
story had a vague idea of throwing himself
from a seaside pier, but relinquished it on
reflecting that the money in his pocket
was a penny short of the entrance charge.
It is improbable that a penny toll for pedes-
trians would ever have been tolerated on the
bridge; none the less it might have saved a
few lives. Even the tram fares to the Gap
were some sort of a deterrent to sell-
destruction.
“Sixenate”: “Doing a Bradman” was a
phrase sprung on a Sydney magistrate the
other day; a police sergeant explained that
it meant 200 days in gaol. The slang of
those who lx'over between court and prison is
generally topical and pungent. The inde-
terminate sentence had hardly arrived before
"Kathleen Mavourneen” was appropriately
fitted to it. Many such phrases are shoit-
lived, although a “Fred Bluett case” is some-
times still heard of. It is a reference to a
thief being caught with the loot in his pos-
session—“the body in the bag” of the
comedian’s song. If an ex-prisoner mentions
that he “got a knife and fork” over a
certain charge, he means that he went to
gaol only long enough to have a few meats
—although actually knives are not auowci
cither in prison or in court cells. Anotnci
cricketer honored in underworld slang o
many years ago was the late Syd Grego y,
who was just then alternating big SC ®W,
with marked failures. “A Syd Grego W
meant a case which might lead to a s
sentence or none at all. , ...
“Old Mac”: “Medik” (B. 14/12/’32) is
wrong when he states that a P rls ° ,
deprived of lethal weapons can bring an
his own death in a matter of minutes L
holding his breath'. The respiratory muscles
are under the control of a senes of resp -
tory centres, situated in the brain stem »
stimulated bv the tension of carbon dio
in the blood.' If the breath is held voluntary
the carbon dioxide accumulates in the bio >
and in a few minutes reaches a concent.
tion that causes recommencement of the -
pirations, despite the strongest vQiu > i
efforts at continued inhibition. ...
“Teddy Hall”: The authorities
to conflict violently on the question
whether there is such a thing as an Dx /r.
accent. In “Men Among Pearls \ ■
14/1.2/’B2)' I read of the apparently leading
character *
Even an Australian, hearing his sP ee °k>
guess at once that he had come to tnat
[on a pearling boat] by a route that jay P .. v y
began on the playing fields of Eton and unu
led on past Oxford. „ .
A day or two later the “S. H. Herald P ,
lislied a sub-leader entitled Spires _
Chimes,” apropos an Oxford Society ,
organised in Sydney. The paper co P
that there were between 30,000 apd > ,
Oxonians knocking about the
that they all had certain things m e
The first thing is: • , l 0
None employ the travesty of speech a eg
be the Oxford accent. ,„;u,
Puzzling, isn’t it? Personally lam .
the “Herald,” but then I suppose I m
diced.
TO 1932.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cobber, so long! Adios, camarado!
Your dash is nearly done, you’re fading
fast.
Soon must you quit the sunshine for the
shadoAV,
The spotlight for the limbo of the past.
Depart in peace, and whatsoe’er your label is,
I venture that there’s singularly few
Will be inclined to ticket you mirahilis.
Off stage, old Thirty-two !-
We hoped you’d usher in a brighter era
And send depression definitely west.
A glittering dream? A foolish, fond chimera?
And yet you doubtless tried your level
best.
And, though there’s still complaining and
repining,
I have a notion that the clouds begin
To show a bit more silver in the lining
Than when you ambled in.
More blessings, possibly, and loving mercies
Yon might have conjured for us from your
hat;
Still you’ve eliminated certain curses,
One mustn’t be oblivious of that.
The date will evermore from you be reckoned
When fruit-machines were turned to Dead
Sea fruit,
And lamentable Lang obtained his second
Experience of The Boot.
You’ve seen some history: Old China’s
dragon
Getting its jacket dusted by Japan,
And Uncle Sam descending from the waggon
A sadder, thirstier and wiser man ;
Seen nation huckstering with haggling
nation
To give fresh problems to the worn old
earth—
And gold in ever less’ning circulation
And ever mounting worth.
Well, anyhow, for all you’ve left me debtor
Accept your tribute in a chunk of verse,
Herald (mayhap) and harbinger of better
Years and (God grant it!) whipper-in
of worse.
Leap year, at least you gave some damsels
sprightly
A chance to show their swains the way to
woo.
’Tis time for you to go off pop as lightly,
Hop it, old Thirty-two !
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Old Q.”: This being the season when
schoolboy howlers are published, a Brisbane
statistician has turned his attention to simi-
lar efforts by members of the Queensland Leg.
Assembly. Here are a few picked up during
the closing davs of the session: “The Opposi-
is suffering from the Cromwellian psychology
of the Middle Ages” ; “The Government just
dwindles along” ; “If we only had some ram,
the cattle industry would be on the pig’s
back”; “I heard the hon. member get on
his feet”; “I am speaking from an uncon-
scious point of view”; “One has to leave
the square and narrow path to get round to
the subject.” And finally: “Under the be-
nign and beneficent rule of Labor the Augean
stable will be cleansed from its present
insanitary condition before passing through
the crucible.”
* * * *
“Kerys”: The report that a Sydney firm
dispensed largesse in, the shape of sov-
ereigns embedded in slices of Christmas
cake recalls a near-tragedy that occurred m
ML. in pre-war days, when a firm drew
custom by having half-sovereigns coyly
hidden in small cakes. A coun-
try woman, unaware of the
buried-treasure stunt, gave a cake
to her small boy, and was horri-
fied soon afterwards to find the
youngster choking. A doctor in
a near-by chemist’s managed to
dislodge the obstruction. It, plus
sixpence, paid his fee.
ANOTHER BAD GUESS OF DAD’S.
“No, Willie. For the fourth and last time—you can NOT have another chocolate.”
“Aw, gee, I don’t know where dad gets the idea that you’re always changing your
mind.”
“Jeames”: So North Essendon, having an
aerodrome, is going to change its name to
Hendon (B. 21/12/’32). This ape-like
conduct is characteristic of a certain type
of Australian, and it is persisted in despite
the curious fact that the more splendid and
exotic the name of any given Aussie institu-
tion, the likelier it is to meet with disaster.
Melbourne had a Ritz restaurant; it burst
with a bang. Sydney started a Savoy; it
burst, too. An Ambassadors had a brief
spell of glory in Sydney; then it degener-
ated into a tea-room; then it closed down.
The hotels and restaurants that remain and
move from strength to strength invariably
have homely locally-inspired names like the
Australia and the Wentworth. The prin-
ciple applies here in everything; bridge clubs
called the Portland, Crockford’s and the Cav-
endish are started by the dozen every year
in Sydney and Melbourne. They battle along
for a while and then die, and the gamesters,
male and female, who were to blame for
them resume the struggle to resemble the
gamesters of White’s in Charles James bQx s
day on a thrippence-a-hundred basis in their
own homes. Last week the Lido was raided.
It is a Bondi night club. There used
to be a Ciro’s in a Darlinghurst back
street in which the B.Y.T.’s of Surry
Hills disported themselves. The boarding-
house industry provides a conspicuous
example of the phenomenon.. Whenever 1
see a shaky old mansion with a covey or
furniture vans outside and a signpainter
inscribing the name .of a ducal seat (Chats-
worth or Longleat) on it, or the un-Aus-
tralian Marlborough House or Versailles
or something grandiose of the sort, 1 pity
the infatuated owner. The most success-
ful boarding-house Sydney has known
took its title from its street number. Gener-
ally speaking, the ones with the best prospect
of making a do of it are known to their
patrons and the public as “Mrs. Blank’s,
or even “Old Mother Blank’s Place.'
❖ .I. * i'fi
“Peebles”: Mention of St. Patrick's
in Dublin being mistaken for an R.C.
cathedral reminds me of Ned, a railway
employee at Mudgee. He was anxious to get a
shift to Sydney, and at last it came his way.
Ned wrote to a confrere in another town, also
anxious to get to Sydney, that testimonials
from Father Flaherty and Bishop O’Blank
had helped. This brought forth an appeal
to the powers that be to upset Ned’s appoint-
ment, on the ground of sectarian influence.
The solemn departmental inquiry discovered
at the outset that Bishop O’Blank wore the
lawn sleeves of an Anglican. It went no
further.
* * # *
“Coif” : An unusually interesting case has
just been decided by the German Courts. A
Berlin captain of industry summoned his
typist and bade her take down a letter to
his ladylove. Whether the tone of the
letter jarred on the amanuensis is not stated;
anyhow she suddenly announced that she
had been engaged to attend to business
affairs and not the outpourings of a stricken
swain, and refused to proceed. The boss
sacked her, and she sued for wrongful dis-
missal. Got a verdict, too, but a higher juis-
diction reversed the decision. It seems hard
on the girl. Writer knows one Sydney stock-
broker who. compels his typist to take down
his poems for transmission to The Bulletin
and other journals. So far none have been
accepted, but, as the girl has been promised
a bonus when the first is printed, she carries
on, hoping against hope.
* * * *
“Martin Burney”: She was next to me at
the tobacco counter of a big store choosing
a pipe—for someone far away in the open
spaces, I think; anyway, she bought a pound
of tobacco to go with it. I have often won-
dered what points weigh with women when
they are choosing pipes for their men- or
boy-folk, so I couldn’t help watching her
when they brought her a case of 20 or 30
excellent briars, all shapes, sizes and designs.
She hefted every one carefully, held it up
to the light, scanned it from every angle,
examined it meticulously over and over again.
It struck me she was trying to decide which
would look most elegant (or least inelegant)
in the smoker’s mouth. Suddenly she sur-
prised me by turning and asking my opinion
as to what was the best sort of pipe. I said
something about the heavy-bowled ones being
cooler, and she presently rejected the more
sinuous and slender shapes and picked a
massive “bulldog.” But I don’t think it was
my advice determined her; I think he has the
face that, whether he knows it or not,
best matches that sort of pipe. Perhaps one
could get a glimpse of the masculine fea-
tures ally woman admires by noting the
pipe she would deck them with.
*. # * *
“Lao-dah”: According to a New York
cable, official recognition has been granted
to the protogram, or telescopic word, in
Vizetelly’s new dictionary. An odd speci-
men is “Iretrogimin,” meaning “I refuse
to reply on the ground that it might
incriminate me.” The word would have
saved an immense amount of time if
used in bribery cases in Sydney. Russia
is said to have been the original home
of verbal telescopy. “Nep,” for New
Economic Policy, is an example. But
the cable correspondents were the real in-
ventors of the protogram as a device for
saving expense in news telegrams. Such
press wires have got through to Australia as
“Band Godsaved Georges ovationed,” mean-
ing “The band played the National Anthem
and their Majesties received an ovation,”
and “Jocooks Genevawarded,” meaning “Mr.
and Mrs. Joseph Cook have departed for
Geneva,”
THE SORROWS OF SANTA.
“Santa Claus must have had a terrible time getting down that chimney, mustn’t he?”
“Grey”: That story of the Kalgoorlie
two-up school (B. 21/12/’32) calls up a
reminiscence of Bloemfontein about the
middle of the Boer War. A lot of flying
columns had gathered there for a spell and
drawn the first pay many of the units had
touched for months. For miles round the
town the country is as flat as a pancake,
though dotted with kopjes, and in these wide
open spaces the Australians and Maorilanders
introduced the Tommies and Canadians to the
national gamble. In between fatigues and
such functions as stables, the plains were
dotted with circular concourses of “Khakis,”
as the called them, alternately raising
and lowering their heads. From a distance
the effect was fascinating.
❖ ❖ :5s ❖
“Thormanby” : Cannot agree with “Larool”
(B. 21/8/’32) that the parson’s dog-collar
is a survival of the old stock or that the
barrister’s bands have any connection with
the same. The stock succeeded lace ruffles
and attained perfection in the reigns of
Georges 111. and IV., when the neckcloth,
on which Brummel rose to such supreme
heights, displaced it. The barrister’s
bands, like those of the Presbyterian and
Lutheran clergy of to-day, go back to the
days of the ruff. They seem to have been
first adopted by the Puritans as an offset
to the lace ruffles of the Malignants, and for
many years were worn by. the C. of E. clergy
with the gown. As to the stock, the only
ones I ever heard of as buckling behind were
the military ones. The ordinary hunting
stock, which any decent Sydney outfitter can
supply, passes twice round the neck and is
then brought over to be fastened in front,
in the pattern desired, by a pin.
=:= * * *
“Kerys”: Phyllis got a job at our
residential. Never had such a treasure
come into the house; in addition to being
beautiful she was entirely competent and
industrious beyond dreams. She never
wanted a day off, though occasionally she
went for an evening stroll. We all liked
and admired the girl, so when one evening
a tearful landlady told us that a. dreadful
policeman had called and taken Phyllis away
we were naturally shocked. An error, of
course. But Phyllis did not return, and a
subsequent introduction to her list of pre-
vious convictions staggered the household.
The police admitted at the trial that an
entirely respectable residential was the last
place wherein they expected to find Phyllis.
* =i= * *
“0.P.H.”: Winston Churchill is- one of
the politicians who have suffered personal
violence for forcible expression of their
opinions in Parliament (B. 21/12/’32).
After a hot debate on Irish' affairs an irate
member flung a leather-bound copy of Stand-
ing Orders at Winston, who was hit over
the eye. What made the matter worse was
that the Speaker (Lowther) was in the line
of fire. After the division in progress had
been taken, a contrite apology was tendered
and accepted. In Vic. Assembly long ago
a Scot, worked up by the snarling interrup-
tions of an opponent, hurled at his tor-
mentor a volume of Hansard from which
he had been quoting. He explained that as
he w-hirled round from answering a pertinent
interjection from behind him, the book flew
out of his hand and “shot” across the table,
guided by some unseen force. The House
grinned and forgave him.
“F.S.”: I am inclined to think that the
finest piece of sculpture in Melbourne is
the fountain close to the new A. L. Gordon
statue in Spring-street; and it cost the State
nothing but the price of a piece of paper
granting the sculptor, William Stanford, a
convict, remission of a 22-years . sentence
for highway robbery and horse-stealing.
Stanford was an Englishman who ran away
to sea at 16. At the Bendigo diggings he
got three months for being concerned m a
street disturbance. After his release he stole
a horse. Ten years. After serving six years
he was released, but was quickly back again
for the final term and went to Pentridge.
For trying to escape he got a year in irons,
and in this uncomfortable position began
drawing designs for a fountain which
attracted the attention of Charles Summers,
the sculptor. Summers induced the prison
authorities to supply him with bluestone.
Out of this recalcitrant material he carved
the harmonious base, the extraordinarily
realistic birds perched on it, which were
modelled on a stuffed eagle, and the soft
and fleshy figure at the top, the model for
which was, first, the son of a leading society
woman, and then a warden’s offspring. On
his release in 1870 Stanford set up as a monu-
mental mason at St. Kilda, and the local
cemetery contains specimens of his handi-
work. He died in 1880 as a result of damage
to his throat and lungs incurred while chisel-
ling the fountain. He was a true artist.
* * $ *
‘‘O. de V.” : The cabled description of the
new British Army uniform contains some
changes that would have been warmly wel-
comed during the war. The replacement of
puttees by short web gaiters is one; puttees
were all right in India, but the exhausted
footslogger soon gave up the fruitless grop-
ing for the puttee-string hidden under layers
of slimy mud and turned iii “all standing.”
The light waterproof hat which can be
folded .into the pocket sounds a big improve-
ment on the rain-sodden cloth cap which
filtered cold trickles down the face and neck;
and a blow has been struck at officious
A.P.M.’s and their military police satellites
by the introduction of the “glad neck” tunic
and shirt. Best of all is the last item,
buttons and badges of dull bronze, which
should cause sergeant-majors, dug-out field
officers and all the spit-and-polish brigade to
revolve rapidly in their graves.
* * * *
“D.” : The Americans will have to live by
taking in one another’s washing if they get
the £ where the greenback used to be. Britain
was able to stand up to a £ that repre-
sented handfuls of other nations’ currencies
because its products were pre-eminently
good. Wherever in the world a rich man,
white, black, brown or yellow, wanted the
best _he had to .go or send to the U.K.
for it. Millionaires —that is, the fashion-
able ones, the ones that knew how to
live—went from Paris, Berlin, Rome, St.
Petersburg and, above all, from New York
to Bond-street, London, and its purlieus for
their _ suits, hats, shoes, shirts, trout-rods,
sporting guns and similar luxuries. When
the war began a single tailor’s shop near
Hanover-square was “Under the Patronage”
of seven European sovereigns. If a Wall-
street magnate wanted the world’s best car
he sent to England for it; if his polo-playing
sons wanted the world’s best saddle, riding-
boots and riding-breeches, they sent to Eng-
land for them ; if his wife wanted the world’s
best dressing-case she sent to England for
it. The Americans have never been able
to offer a single article outside primary pro-
ducts, like oil, which rich foreigners of dis-
crimination find themselves compelled to
buy. Most of their most profitable export
lines have been shoddy—films, jazz songs,
-slop suits and “notions.” But shoddy is
only profitable if its manufacturer is pre-
pared to accept shoddy prices. America
nee,ds_ to drain very little more gold from
Britam t 0 send the £ to 10s. or so in terms
of U.S.A. currency. And there isn’t a single
article that, a Yank has made or ever will
make that , is going to appeal to foreigners,
let alone Britons, as worth 100 per cent,
more than a similar article of British make.
CAUGHT AND BOWLED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A London jury awarded £175 damages against
Parkes, a Sussex professional, for breach of promise
of marriage. The Judge humorously remarked that
a successful cricketer might be regarded as ‘a bit
of a catch,’ and that the plaintiff was entitled to
something substantial for the breaking of a six
years’ engagement.”
Caught! Was he caught ?In the remote
beginnings
She obviously had him in her hold.
Nathless the end of his protracted innings
Came, it would seem, when he was caught
and bowled.
Worse luck for him, those figures on the
board
Are what the lady, not the batsman, scored.
He played her safely, over after over;
He kept her off and on with care and skill;
Doubtless for many an easy run he drove
her,
As fellows who’re au fait with maidens
will.
He glanced, be sure, effectually, but
He wasn’t so successful with the cut.
Length was the quality, ’tis clear, she
brought to
Her bowling, as opposed to pace and vim;
She pitched no wroffg ’uns, never swerved
or sought to —
Swerving was obviously left for him.
And now he pays for it, to queer the phrase
That in the end the woman always pays.
He’s caught and bowled! But, anyhow,
’twill lighten
The cross (or should) of this inconstant
cove
To know his lines are cast in courteous
Brighton.
At least he’ll never hear upon the Hove
The satire fierce and commentary shrill
That might have been his portion on the
Hill.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP 4 300 GOO 0
RESERVE FUND g
RESERVE CAPITAL - 4,739,014 1U
£13,778,025 0 0
DITCCtOTS •
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman)
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.: Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR. ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, 8.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
. Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world. ‘
All Classes of General Banking and "Exchange Business Transacted.^
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars or
Safe Rentals on application.
THE NATIONAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSOCIATION
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Established 1869.
The First Office in the World to apply the Surrender Value
of Life Policies in Paying the Premiums, so as to prevent
a Policy Lapsing until the Surrender Value is exhausted.
EXTRACTS FROM THE SIXTY-THIRD ANNUAL REPORT.
16,361 New Policies Assuring £6,549,661
New Annual Premiums 237,144
Income for Year 4,477,015
Payments to Policyholders 3,030,862
Added to Assurance Fund 1,052,445
Assurance Fund at 30/9/’32 35,181,427
New South Wales Board: SIR JOHN VICARS, W. D. STEWART, ESQ.
OSWALD ST. CLAIR, Manager.
Office Building: 350 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some January birthdays :
Prof. Gilbert Murray, of Oxford, 67, Premier
Stevens (N.S.W.), 44, and A. D. McGill, K.C.
(Brisbane), 47, on 2nd; Frank G. Menzies (Vic.
Grown Solicitor), 41, and Colonel T. E. V. Hurley,
M.D., 45, on 3rd; R. H. Oroll (Vic. Education
Dept.), 64, on 4th; Bishop Newton (New Guinea),
07, and S.A. Min. for Agric. S. R. Whitford, 55,
on sth; pastoralist Edmund Jowett (Melb.), 75,
Prof. H. Tasman Lovell (Syd,), 55, N.S.W. Aud.-
Gen. John Spence, 57, and Archbishop Clune (Perth),
69, on 6th; pastoralist-knight Graham Waddell, 56,
and bird-artist Neville Cayley, 47, on 7th; artist
Sydney Ure Smith, 46, on- 9th; Bishop Batty
(Newcastle), 54, on 10th; Q’land ex-Speaker W.
Bertram, 58, on 11th; Archbishop Spence (Adel.), 73,
Prof. D. Onne Masson (Melb.), 75, and Prof! H. G.
Chapman (Syd.), 54, on 13th; Defence Minister
Geo. Pearce, 63, on 14th; shipowner W. A. Mackay,
50, on 15th; S.A.-bom violinist Daisy Kennedy and
Brig-Gen. C. H. Foott, 57, on 16th; merchant-knight
Clifton Love, 65, on 18th; platypus-authority Harry
Burrell, 60, and Brig.-Gen. J. Campbell Stewart,
49, on 19 th; K. R. Cramp (N.S.W. Education
Dept), 55, on 21st; former N.S.W. Premier George
Fuller, 72, and Maj.-Gen. J. M. Arnott, 64, on 22nd ;
Vic. Police Commissioner Brig.-Gen. Blarney, 49,
Q’land ex-Agent-Gen. Macartney, 70, Sydney merchant
G. F. Earp, 75, and Ethel Turner on 24th; W.A. Min.
for Lands C. G. Latham, 41, and S. E. Lamb, K.C.
(Syd.), 69, on 26th; painter Julian Ashton, 82,
and Prof. F. W. Cumbrae-Stewart (Brisbane), 68,
on 27th ; Justice Kenneth Street (N.S.W.), 43, and
Bishop Feetham (North Q’land), 60, on 28th;
Bishop Norton (Bathurst), 42, E. L. Frazer (Vic. Par-
liamentary Library), 41, and weather-prophet Mares
(N.S.W.), 54, on 30th; ex-Gov.-Gcn. Forster, 67,
Australian baritone Peter Dawson, 51, A. S. Le
Souef (Director of Taronga Park), 56, and Guy
Innes (Melb. “Herald,” Lond.), 51, on 31st.
To the tin-hare and lucky-marble type of
Labor politician Phil Collier, of Westralia,
must seem old-fashioned. Collier -rejects the
belief that his party should encourage the
workers to fatten the tribe of McShortodds ;
holds indeed-—as he said when opposing the
establishment of State-controlled lotteries—
that “it is fundamentally wrong for Parlia-
ment to give gambling the sanction of legal-
ity.” Yet he is no danger of being the
quarry in a heresy hunt. By common con-
sent of supporters and opponents, Collier is
the ablest Parliamentarian that the West-
ralian end of “the movement” has produced.
A big-framed man with a musical voice and
a nice choice of words, his speeches read
almost as well as they sound. Since he
succeeded Jack Scaddan in 1916 his leader-
PHIL COLLIER, who leads the Labor
Opposition in W.A.
ship has never been challenged, even though
he was Premier for six years, 1924-30. A
Victorian, born at Woodstock, who went
to the goldfields in 1904 —he was a corpora-
tion laborer at Boulder before he became the
local member, which he has been for 27
years —he will be 60 on April 21. As the
general election will be held in. the
he has a big chance of . receiving bntliday
greetings from the Premier s office.
Arthur Wright, who died at Manly last
week, was one of Australia’s two best-known
sporting novelists. For many years he was
the N.S.W. Bookstall Co.’s best seller, and
had turned out scores of racing and busn
yarns, which were always wholesome, clean
and interesting, without pretending to be
anything else than the thrillers they were.
For over a quarter of a century he had been
in the service of the Port Jackson S.S. Co.,
and for a long time before his death was
in charge of the wharf at Manly. A ster-
ling and lovable Cornstalk, as. straight as
he looked, lie will be greatly missed by the
people of “the Village,” as well as by the
many thousands throughout the Common-
wealth who were his constant and enthusi-
astic readers.
H. S. Gullett, in his Sinai and Palestine
volume of “The Official History of Australia
in the War,” pays two tributes to the fear-
lessness of A. D. Reid, now C.P, member
for Young in the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly.
He records the courage of Reid and other
officers in an attack upon the Turks during
the Battle of Reersheba in Oct., 1917.
A. D. REID, a Digger
politician (N.S.W.).
The Australians
were only a hand-
ful, but the sheer
recklessness of their
charge overwhelmed
their numerically
Stronger enemies.
Reid was a captain
with the 4th L. H.
Regiment during
that scrap. Later,
in writing of the
advance to Damas-
cus, the. author
remarks that Reid
(then a major)
“made the pace a
cracker,” and tells
bow he itched to
tackle a large body
of Turks with a
few score horsemen.
Headquarters ord-
ered him not to
undertake the risky
enterprise. The
member for Young,
who ■ was born at
M u r r u mburrah
(N.S.W.) 46 years
ago, is a tall, sun-
burnt fellow with
a genial manner
and a fluent tongue.
An alderman at 21,
he formed the
Crowther branch of the Farmers and
Settlers’ Assoc, and is deputy-president of
the Burrangong Shire Council. In 1927
defeated Peter Loughlin (then a Laborite,
now belonging to the U.A.P.) for the Young
seat, but lost it three years later to Lang-
planner C. E. Martin by 814 votes. _ He
got his own back last June, when he finished
up 2408 votes ahead of Martin.
W. .T. Riordan, Queensland secretary of
the A.W.U., who has been appointed to the
State Industrial Court at a salary of £2OOO
a year for seven years, was born in Mackay 49
years ago. He began as comp, on a Mareeba
newspaper, later going to the Cairns “Post.”
Bush and railway work came next; for some
time he was employed by the Chillagoe Min-
ing and Railway Co. as a loco.-driver. He
went to the Legislative Council on the nomi-
nation of T. J. Ryan, and when the Upper
Chamber was abolished took up work as a
union organiser and secretary. Well
grounded in arbitration and industrial law.
he is regarded as a moderate with a sound
outlook.
A. ,T. McLachlan hurried to Adelaide from
Canberra to move for the admission of his
nephew to the S. Aus. Bar; lan McLachlan
is a prominent golfer, and son of “Paratoo”
of that ilk, who won the Melbourne Cup with
White Nose.
It is 49 years since Australia had its last
great heresy hunt: Dr. Charles Strong, of
Scots’ Church, Melbourne, was the quarry
that time, and when it was all over he took
his followers around to the Australian
Church in Flinders-street. Now the pack
is after Professor Angus, who is accused of
teaching unsound doctrines to the students
of St. Andrew’s within Sydney University.
Dr. Angus, a North of Ireland man, spent
some years in America —he was a classical
tutor at Princeton for a while —and he has
always kept in touch with advanced Ameri-
can University thought; though he came to
Sydney in 1914 he has had two. or three
temporary jobs in the U.S.A. since then.
He is still young enough (51) to put up-
a vigorous scrap, though he would probably
much rather cut loose and go lecturing. He
is a great traveller.
In Matthew (“Mat”) Jackson, Boulder
City lost almost its oldest citizen the other
day. Boulder is a year or two younger than
its sister-township Kalgoorlie, neither hav-
ing yet entered the forties. Mat Jackson
came from Cumberland and, after doing a
bit of “follering gold,” opened the second
store in Boulder. He ran it till his death.
Everyone knew and liked Mat, who was a
pillar of the Boulder Race Club as well as
a buttress of trade. He was 66 at the end.
Australia will hear more of L. J. McCon-
nan, N.S.W. State manager of the National
Bank, chosen by the Melbourne banks to
represent them on the Federal Government’s
new wool committee. McConnan, whose
father wedded the lads and lasses of the
kirk in the nor’-east of Victoria for half a
lifetime, grew up in the National Bank, and
was State manager in South Aus. at an age
when most young bankers are packing up to
go to their first branch. Then he was sent
to London (boards always like possible gen-
eral managers to have experience in Lon-
don), and on his return he was appointed
State manager in N. S. Wales. He is still
on the right side of middle-age—though pro-
bably he hasn’t felt like it during the past
couple of years.
Invading fresh fields of learning, Prof.
Woodruff, of the bacteriology school, Melb.
Uni., who holds qualifications from the
Royal. College of Surgeons and Physicians
and the Roval College of Vet. Science, sat
with other students at the recent ’varsity
exams, for the degree of B.Sc. Billy Slater,
twice Attorney-General of Vic., while doing
front-bench work in the Assembly went up
for first-year economics.
Professor Hewitson, who died the other
day at Dunedin, was meenister at Knox
Church from 1895 to 1908, when he took
over the mastership of the newly-established
Knox College, over which he watched for 20
years. Born at Smythesdale (Vic.) in 1868,
the future prof, began to earn his living as
a bank clerk; later he entered Melbourne
Uni., secured his B.A. degree, and joined
Ormond College.
Sydney’s Lud Mayor Ilagon is a tailor;
Melbourne’s Gengoult Smith might have
stepped from the pages of the “Tailor
and Cutter.” He invariably wears a
cravat on formal occasions and the un-
common morning coat and top hat when-
ever suitable. In professional life he is one
of the city’s best surgeons.
W. F. Foster, who died in Hobart the
other day at 75, had driven an industrious
pen in many newspaper offices. He came
from Newcastle (England) and began his
Australian career on the Albany (W.A.)
“Advertiser” in days. When
a second morning paper was started in
Perth, Foster was one of its earliest editors,
and if he failed to make it a power in the.
land, at least he did better than most of
his successors with the “Morning Herald,”
which petered out after a dozen years of
stress and struggle. Foster left Perth for
a billet on the “Age” and transferred thence
to the “Auckland Herald”; finally he put
in 25 years as sub-editor of the Hobart
“Mercury,” retiring only last year.
South Aus. has probably the only director
of agriculture in the world who was born in
Egypt and educated at Carthage. His
father, E. A. Perkins, was an engineer, in
charge of the Tunis gas- and water-works.
The son, A.J., thought he was going to spend
his life among vines, and it was as viticul-
tural expert that he was brought to South
Prof. PERKINS ( S.A. ).
Aus. in 1892. Very soon, however, he was
in charge of Roseworthy, the farm school
a few miles out of Adelaide, and later on
he was made Director of Agriculture. He
has done a great deal for wneat-growing in
S. Aus. The improvement in the S.A. yield
per acre is almost incredible. The average
in the 10 years 1890-99 was 4.69 bushels;
in the 10 years 1921-30, notwithstanding that
a much greater area of dry country was cul-
tivated, it was 10.72 bushels, and the latter
period included the two disastrous seasons
1928-29. It isn’t all due to Perkins, of
course; but much of it is.
Myer’s must have a whole chapter when
the Romance of Business in Australia is
written; and Lee Neil, the managing direc-
tor, will figure largely i.n it. Myer supplies
the imagination; and because he_ has the
imagination he is very human- —witness his
huge benefactions. He needed an organiser
trained in figures; and Lee Neil filled the
bill. Born in Manchester, he has hardly
EDWIN LEE NEIL, of Myer’s.
ever been out of rags, except when he was
learning to be a banker (he was with the
E., S. and A.). Having got that experience
he went back to rags—as accountant to
Wright and Neil; this Neil was his father.
Wright and Neil’s was one of the businesses
Myer’s swallowed (1911) ; Lee Neil went
over with it, soon became manager of Myer’s
and before long was managing director. He’s
got large and serious ideas about public
service, too.
Thomas Dickson, who succeeds >C. A. Ber-
nays as Clerk of Parliament in Queensland,
was Clerk Assistant and Sergeant-at-Arms
before his promotion. Only 44, he has been
a member of the Parliament House staff
since 1908; he was Usher of the Black Rod
in the Leg. Council. He is succeeded as
Clerk Assistant and Sergeant-at-Arms by
R. Dunlop.
A prominent figure at the “Back to Gun-
dagai” celebrations, which included the unveil-
ing of the “Dog and Tucker-box” monument
to the old pioneers, was Bill Ross, M.L.A.
for Cootamundra. Eighty years ago his
father drove a bullock team past the five-
mile peg, where the monument now stands,
on his pioneering trek to the Victorian
border, and ever since that day the family
has had a bullock team on hand. Bill Ross
drove it on the recent occasion; the waggon
was loaded v : th firewood for the local hos-
pital.
Now that J. P. Jones, Works Minister
and leader of Vic. Upper House, is free of
Trades Hall associations, his name is ex-
pected to appear in the honors list one of
these mornings. Jones has in contempla-
tion a trip at his own expense to London;
it is just possible that he may succeed Walter
Leitch as Agent-General next July.
Fred Johns remembered his hobby of
who’s-who-ing even when lie was making his
will. His wife had predeceased him, and
there was but one child, a married daughter.
In the absence of other dependants, he gave
£l5OO to the Adelaide Uni. to found the
Fred Johns scholarship for biography; and a
sum not exceeding £3OO is to be available to
complete the dictionary of Australian bio-,
graphy with which Johns had been filling his
leisure for the past three years. On his
daughter’s death a further thousand goes to
the "university. He was very anxious that a
whole library of Australian biography should
be built up, and was in communication with
the new Australian Book Publishing 00. on
the subject right up to the time of his death.
Part of the income from the £l5OO is to be
used, if necessary, to subsidise the publica-
tion of the biographies which win the scholar,
ships.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dalgety and Co., Ltd.
Ordinary Written off. Re-
June, Profits. Dividends.* Premises, serves.
££' £ £
1922.. 84,579 15 p.c. = 150,000 20,000 1,101,901
1923.. 239,162 15 „ „ 150,000 50,000 1,116,063
1924.. 298,988 17 „ „ 170,000 60,000 1,170,051
1925.. 336,313 17 „ ~170,000 75,000 1.236,364
1926.. 220,048 17 „ ~ 170,000 50,000 1,211,412
Premium on shares, £128,916 .. 1,340,328
1927.. 232,053 17 p.c. = 170,000 25,000 1,352,381
Premium on shares, £371,084 ..1,723,465
1928.. 276,887 17 p.c. = 255,000 25,000 1,695,352
1929.. 337,590 17 „ ~255,000 25,000 1,727,942
1930.. 210,946 10 „ ~150,000 25,000 1,738,888
Inner reserves disclosed, £67,729 ..1,806,617
1931.. 35,741 7 p.c. = 105,000 1,712,358
Inner reserves disclosed, £175,177 .. 1,887,535
Loss.
1932.. 131,070 5 p.c. = 75,000 1,656,465
*The prefs. (5 p.c.) get £25,000 p.a.
The loss, the first thing- of its kind to show-
up since the public became interested 48
years ago, was due to the cost of exchange;
to meet which £175,177 as against £67,729
in the previous term was transferred from
the contingency reserve (this reserve is
lumped with sundry creditors in the sheet).
The year’s debenture interest and divs.,
payable in sterling, together totalled
£261,494; appearances are, therefore, that
the exchange debit was mainly on account
of trade transactions.
On the whole, seasonal conditions were
never better, and the co. put an extra 45,271
bales of wool under the hammer :
Aus- Maori- Average per
tralia. land. Total. Bale.* '
Bales sold—
-1928.. 366,056 105,785 471,841 £24 19 11
1929.. 398,856 109,959 508,815 21 10 6
1930.. 400,761 84,262 485,023 13 2 2
1931.. 394,175 88;712 482,887 10 13 3
1932.. 433,719 94,439 528,158 10 8 9
♦Australasia.
Wheat, too, averaged about 3s. for export as
against 2s. s|d. for the previous season.
Still mahy clients find it difficult to make
ends meet, and the co.’s lending connections
were extended. But good seasons —most of
Australia has already enjoyed three in suc-
cession—cannot be expected to continue inde-
finitely ; so, after shearing off something for
contingencies, the board figured gross earn-
ings . £125,519 lighter than the previous
year’s:—
1926. 1930 1931 1932
Gross profits. £951,648 £927,222 £801,895 £676,376
Outgoings—
Salaries, etc. 407,547 440,128 496,724* 574,781*
Interest .. 123,906 139,209 162,440 161,494
Taxes.. .. 125,147 111,939 81,990 61,171
Total outgo £656,600 £691,276 £741,154 £797,446
♦lncluding exchange.
Excluding exchange, salaries, etc., were re-
duced by £29,391; the Australasian tax bill
(£48,397) was £22,122 lighter, and the
British one (£12,774) £1303 heavier. Includ-
ing £lO,OOO sent to the staff fund (this is
deducted before writing profits into the intro-
ductory table) the net result was a loss of
£131,070. In the previous term there was
enough profit to pay the pref. div. and show
2.3 p.c. on the £1,500,000 of ord. capital
as against 1.4, 26.5, 21.7, 25.7 and 27 p.c.
back to 1926. However, 5 p.c. was distri-
buted, though, after the £175,177 of inner
reserves had been unearthed and consumed,
the visible lay-by was drawn upon for £55,893
to do it.
Nevertheless, encouraged by the change in
outlook, by seasonal prospects and the history
of the business, the market prices the £2O
shares paid to £5 at £9 10s. as against £7
ss. in July. In Australian currency, and
with exchange as it is, the return at £9 10s.
is 3.3 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div basis, or 5.2 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. distribution. To pay the deben-
ture interest, pref. div. and 8 p.c. to the ords.
in sterling equivalent, total funds (capital,
reserves and debentures combined) would
need to net 5.2 p.c. in Australian currency,
with exchange at the current rate.
Balance-sheet figures disclose a solid
financial structure and continued expansion
of the business :
Liabilities.
1923. 1931. 1932.
Capital .. .. £1,500,000 £2,000,000 £2,00 : 0,000
Perpetual 4j p.e... 499,910 - 749,910 749,910
„ 4 „ .. 1,725,544 1,725,544 1,725,544
Redeemable 4J p.c. 500,000 500,000
Terminable* .. 357,523 665,150 678,900
Sundry creditors, etc. 2,830,846 2,294,160 2,327,590
Assets.
Advances, proper-
ties, etc. .. £3,644,976 £6,610,983 £6,784,231
Premises, etc. .. 397,217 306,827 329,621
Stock . . .. 418,347 565,108 462,241
Sundry debtors .. 870,630 1,091,398 1,020,913
Cash & investments 3,014,716 1,498,805 1,447,402
p.c. to 6J p.c.
At June 30 book debts, cash and investments
alone were £140,725 in excess of the amount
coming to sundry creditors, which includes
something for contingencies and taxation.
Investments, unchanged at £1,000,000, con-
sist chiefly of gilt-edge securities, in at
market value or less at June 30. Debtors’
balances are the key of the whole position.
Owing to the scattered nature of the busi-
ness, and the unsettled state of world con-
ditions, due to war debts and other pro-
blems, the outlook in this respect is mixed;
but, speaking generally, it is better than
it was a year ago.
United Provisions, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Profits. / Dividends \ serves, serves.
£ Pref. Ord. £ £ £
1928. .123,466 8 p.c. 8 p.c. = 100,854 22,612 628
1929. .112,094 8 „ 8 „ „ 112,000 94 722
1930. .102,964 8 „ 7 ~ „ 102,500 464 1186
1931.. 36,205 8 „ Nil = 36,000 205 1391
1932.. 35,611 8 „ Nil = 36,000 1002
This is an amalgamation of J. O. Hutton
and Foggitt Jones, the well-known ham,
bacon and food-canning people, who decided
to go on the market together in 1927. This
United Go. bought the £716,700 of scrip in
the two operating concerns for £1,355,008.
The difference (£638,308) included £463,000
of inner reserves, disclosed by a revaluation
of the assets. But these were not written
up in the books of the operating cos., whose
combined net profits had averaged £131,043
p.a. for the three years before the merger.
Presently slump affected the local and export
trade of the pair—for the last 25 years they
have been developing their connections in
Asia —prices fell, competition sharpened, the
debts question became more troublesome and
the turnover of the two combined fell from
£3,156,727 in 1928 to £2,101,326 for the 12
months covered by the latest accounts, when
the slip was £304,291. Their aggregate p.
and 1. figures compare as follows:
1 Q9S iQQft IQQO 1Q39
Gross profit. . £405,342 £254,173 £233,721
Exes. . . 326,957 321,770 229,364 204,674
Net profit .. £138,385 £112,654 £24,809 £29,047
Divs 127,335 103,500 42,879 36,000
Thus over the last four years gross earn-
ings have fallen away by 49.7 p.c., while the
contraction in turnover was 33.4 p.c. Sav-
ings in exes, were responsible for the slight
improvement in last year’s net result, which
was 4 p.c. on com Dined capitals
(£716,700) compared with 3.4, 15.7, 16.5 and
19.2 p.c. for the four preceding years. To
enable the holding co. to pay its own pref.
div. and 3 p.c. on the ord. capital as it now
stands, the operating cos. need to pass on
£64,500, or 9 p.c. on their combined capitals.
This is not much more than half the amount
they netted in 1928, and the worst of the
trouble in respect of prices and. possibly,
book debts appears to have passed. Every-
thing, therefore, depends upon the revival of
turnover and the extent to which costs can
be further reduced. All that can be said
definitely is that the outlook is better than
it was, though competition remains very
keen.
Here is the position as the balance-sheet
figures of the operating cos. show it: —
Operating Cos.’ Combined Figures.
] 928. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. .. £716,700 £716,700 £716,700
Overdraft .. . . 98,239 8,506 19,703
Creditors .. .. 171,705 134,691 141,086
Premises, plant, etc. .. 514,996 601,368 623,240
Stock 344,954 233,786 233,948
Debtors 366,310 288,805 237,592
Shares in other cos. . . 94,506 89,629 89,629
Cash, etc 4,936 4,808 56,642
During the year £21,872 more was spent on
fixed assets than*was written off, £17,592
was added to the amount coming to out-
siders, debtors’ balances contracted £51,213,
and £51,834 was added to cash, etc. Alto-
gether, the more or less liquid surplus
(£367,393, including stocks) slipped £16,809
during the twelvemonth.
On the market the United Go.’s ords.
(950,000), which fetched 31s. 6d. in 1929,
had fallen to 9s. in June last; the figure
rose to 13s. 3d. in August, but was back to
10s. at last week-end. The return at 10s.
would be 6 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div. basis. At
235. the prefs. return 6| p.c.. after allow-
ing for the special Federal tax (2s. in the
£) on income from property. The net tan-
gible backing is 41s. 5d., prefs.; 10s. 2d.,
ords.
National Mutual Life Association
Ex- Writ-Addedto
Sept., Income. Claims. penses. ten Off. Funds.
1900.. 524,121 294,974 690 140?678
1920.. 2,352,957 832,177 275,846 1,244,934
1922.. 2,722,513 969,145 267,064 1,486,301
Equitable of U.S.A. business taken over.
1923.. 3,940,177 1,343,406 286,188 206 2,310,377
1924.. 3,260,737 1,460,483 303,336 1,496,913
New York Life business taken over.
1925.. 4,278,979 1,704,680 332,209 6899 2,235,191
Added to Investment Reserve, £8779.
1926.. 4,080,629 1,755,060 350,363 1,975,206
Added to Investment Reserve, £7123.
1927.. 4,378,799 1,882,250 372,850 2,123,699
Added to Investment Reserve, £7226.
1928.. 4,930,596 2,075,058 414,361 2,441,177
Added to Investment .Reserve, £7898.
1929.. 4,941,130 2,093,781 447,084 2,400,265
Added to Investment Reserve, £31,222.
1930.. 4.983,877 2,559,111 450,974 1,973.792
Added to Investment Reserve, £8299.
1931. . 4,755,450 3,317,599 400,804 - 1,037,047
Added to Investment Reserve, £7OOB.
1932.. 4,477,015 3,030,862 393,708 --- 1,052,445
The actuary makes his overhaul of the busi-
ness each year, and bonuses are declared.
Yet the co. sticks to the old-fashioned idea
of sending ou-t the figures triennially. Those
for the three years to Sept., 1931, disclose
continued progress and satisfactory margins.
They compare with the three preceding
periods as follows :
Assurance Net Triennial Bonuses
Sept., Fund. Liability. Surplus. Declared.
1922. . 16,557,695 14,882,160 1,705,499 1,455,499
1925.. 22,607,250 21,021,102 2,569,493 2,118,974
1928.. 29,147,330 28,011,304 3,431,655 3,013,518
1931.. 34,558,434 32,898,077 4,160,430 3,577,833
There is no profit, the actuary declares;
still, a rose by any other name is just as
sweet. For the last triennium the surplus
was £728,775 better than for the preceding
three years, and an extra £564,315 was dis-
tributed in bonuses. On whole-of-life poli-
cies under Table 1, these ranged from 445.
per cent, on contracts only one year in force
to £4 per cent, on those' 35 years old or
more. Of the £582,597 by which the surplus
available exceeded the actual distribution,
£429,452 was added to the investment fluc-
tuation reserve, into which a further £7OOB
dropped from somewhere, raising it to
£607,008 at Sept. 30. This money belongs
to policy-holders (there are no shareholders),
but by setting aside large sums in addition
to the strong actuarial reserves, the man-
agement is providing for the maintenance
of satisfactory bonuses in the future, so
far as lies within its power.
It was with the same idea that, in 1928,
the association lowered the rate which it
assumes the Life fund will earn from 3J p.c.
to 3 p.c. Owing to the growth in taxation,
and interest-reduction legislation, the net
interest earned on the mean fund fell from
£5 6s. lid. per cent, in 1930 to £3 18s. per
cent, last year, when the slip was 17s. 9d. per
cent. There was thus still a margin of 18s.
per cent, over the amount allowed for ex-
penses and profits, and the actual rate of
earning should now become steadier.
The association gathers nearly half its
income outside Australia. Total income
for the year to Sept. 30 (£4,477.015) was
less by £275,445. of which £277,483 was on
account of net interest (£1,352,352). An
extra £436,144 of new business was put on
the books: —
1929. 1931. 1932.
Policies .. .. 20,078 15,849 16,361
Amount .. .. £9,868,350 £6,113,517 £6,549,661
Av. per policy .. 479 386 400
First premiums .. 356,253 227,682 219,478
Renewals .. .. 2,660,690 2,912,370 2,885,917
Single premiums.. 338,637 14,359 40,369
Annuities .. .. 54,014 . 36,760 45,803
Interest, etc. .. 1,608,616 1,629,834 1,352,352
Assuming that single premiums cost 5 p.c.,
consideration for annuities 3 p.c., and that
new business is 10 times more expensive
than old, then last year’s first premiums
were gathered at a cost of 76.8 p.c., the
same as for the previous term. Making the
allowances just mentioned for single pre-
miums and annuities, the balance of the
year’s exes, took 12.5 p.c. of the remain-
ing premiums as against 12.7 p.c. and 14
p.c. for the two preceding years. The amount
allowed for exes, and profit by the actuary
was 15.3 p.c. Another feature was a drop
of £377,788 in surrenders (£753,919). The
mortality experience for the three years to
’3l was 55 p.c. of the expectation as against
58. 70 and 65 p.c. for the three preceding
trienniums.
, 1931 , 1932
£ p.c. £ p.c.
Freeholds .. .. 1,579,751 4.5 1,605,283 4.4
Public securities.. 14,202,365 40.4 15,145,537 41.8
Mortgages .. 8,945,447 25.5 8,883,210 24.5
Foreclosures .. 290,211 0.8 355,782 1.0
Loans on policies .. 5,729,368 16.3 5,858,859 16.2
Other assets . . 4,421,542 12.5 4,404,650 12.1
Most of the year’s surplus went into Gov-
ernment securities, up £943.172. The book
value of mortgages was reduced by £62,237
and foreclosures increased by £65,571, while
loans on policies expanded a further
£129,491.
Amalgamated Textiles (Aust.), Ltd.
This unit in the Australian, textile indus-
try has bumped up against more trouble
than most of its competitors. It put up mills
at Albury and Orange in 1923. Four years
later it jettisoned £156,105 (6s. Bd. per
share) of its capital, reducing the figure
to £293,375. This purged the accounts of
£87,160 of accumulated losses and prelimin-
ary exes., leaving goodwill at £10,517. The
other £68,945 was used to write down the
book value of premises and plant, bought
when prices were at their peak, and to wipe
out the £lO,OOO at which the co.’s holding
in the W. A. Woollen; Mills appeared (it
recently decided to write off two-thirds of
its capital as lost). The charge for
depreciation was thus lightened, and other
savings followed an overhaul of the organi-
sation. Moreover, the tariff and exchange
provided these textile cos. with fresh oppor-
tunities. But conditions in N. S. Wales
had given Victorian manufacturers an
advantage in labor costs of approximately
30 p.c. So while mills in the southern
State were able to employ more operatives
and earn satisfactory profits, those in N. S.
Wales had to. fight hard to hold business
at unremunerative prices.
For the 12 months to Sept. 30 this co.
registered a loss of £1315, compared with
losses of £5218 and £514 for the two pre-
ceding years. That reduced reserves, in-
cluding the forfeited share account (£8679).
to £10,570, against which goodwill figured
at £10,517.
As for the current term, the co.’s pros-
pects have brightened considerably: orders
have_ been booked - more freely, and the re-
duction of the basic wage in N. S. Wales
by a shade over 15 p.c. has helped greatly.
But payment is still for 44 hours’ work as
against 48 hours’ in Vic., and there has
recently been a quickening of textile imports,
due mainly to tariff adjustments and the
repatriation of a lot of capital which fled
the country during the period of political
instability and before interest rates had
fallen so low abroad. Also, the fact that the
mill at Orange depends upon the other at
Albury for tops makes overhead difficult to
restrain. It is hard to say, therefore, when
and to what extent shareholders are likely
to get into the picture.
Movements in balance-sheet figures are
encouraging:—
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931. 1932.
£> £> & £, £
Paid capital. 448,079 449,481 293,375 293,426 293,739
Overdraft .. 54,883 69,625 63,525 58,877 63,660
Sundry
creditors.. 5,569 11,161 17,336 17,533 19,682
Freeholds .. 89,301 96,123 81,903 81,778 82,022
Plant, etc.. . 211,065 223,808 170,957 120,559 113,212
Fittings . . 1,018 1,129 1,231 859 834
Stocks . . 99,735 119,571 146,377 143,823 133,722
Book debts. 27,416 35,512 20,495 22,213 44,847
Shares in
other cos. 10,000 10,000 ■ —■ —.—
Cash, etc. .. 2,408 2,503 2,607 2,243 2,497
During the year £7372 more was written off
than was spent on fixed assets. This, a
.reduction of £lO,lOl in the book value of
stocks and the addition of £6932 to outside
liabilities enabled the co. to carry an extra
£22,634 of book debts. The movements
suggest that trade was a bit better towards
the close of accounts. The more or less
liquid surplus (£97,724, including stocks)
was £5855 stronger than at the previous bal-
ance.
The fully-paid 13s. 4d. shares are not
listed. They are covered by their face value
in net tangibles, mainly fixed assets, worth
what they can earn—the plant is reported
in first-class condition.
R. Fowler, Ltd. (Sydney)
( Dividends ~
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. 10 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1927.. 18,437 4000 8 p.c. = 16,631 16,136
Establishment exes, new factory, £1793.. 14,343
1928.. 3,258 4000 Nil 13,601
1929.. 8,779 4000 Nil 4779 18,380
Exes, capitalised, £457 ~ .. .. 17,923
Loss. (5 p.c.)
1930.. 6,760 2000 Nil 9,163
Profit on sale of property, £923.. .. 10,086
Deficit.
1931.. 22,339 Nil Nil _ 12,253
1932.. 12,031 Nil Nil 24,284
Before the change in outlook this co. (it
took over R. Fowler’s brick, tile and pot-
tory business in 1919) put out a further
65,000 ords. and added about £40,000 to the
overdraft. The extra money was used to
finance the erection of a factory at Mel-
bourne, and to make extensions to the
Sydney works. To compensate for previous
over-optimistic profit-writing, special depre-
ciation was charged against the 1928 earn-
ings, though the allowance was apparently
inadequate. But the plant cannot be blamed
for all the co.’s troubles; trade slackness
and competition have prevented it from
repairing the damage out of earnings since.
Bor the year to Sept. 30 turnover im-
proved a trifle, thanks to the increased build-
ing activity in Melbourne towards the close
of accounts. Still, gross earnings were in-
sufficient to cover overhead, including depre-
ciation and interest on borrowed funds.
Including something struck off on account
of losses on assets sold, the result of the
year’s operations was written at £12.031
on the wrong side of the ledger. Thus
£24,284 of the capital was unrepresented by
tangibles in the books at Sept. 30. But
the size of the deficit depends upon the
value placed on the assets, mainly plant,
etc., worth what it can earn. With what
looks like several years of slackness ahead
of the building trade in Sydney, and finances
already none too robust, the co.’s future
bristles with difficulties.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it: —
1927. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital . . . . £265,622 £290,000 £290,000
Liabilities . . .. 52,263 90,397 90,676
Freehold and plant .. 223,743 246,644 240,812
Stocks 52,787 59,422 53,615
Sundry debtors.. .. 39,405 27,365 28,279
Shares in other cos. . . 33,252 34,652 33,610
Cash, etc 61 60 75
Despite the year’s net reductions of £5832
in the book value of fixed assets and £5807
in stocks, £279 was added to the debt, rais-
ing it £8709 (up £5159) in excess of more
or less liquids, excluding shares in other
cos. The pipe-making subsidiary, R. Fowler
Vianini, is still making losses— last
ysai.
Capital will be readjusted when the board
sees more definitely where the business
stands. There are 40,000 prefs.—the drv.
(7f p.c. after allowing for the statutory cu+)
is 2| years in arrears—and 250,000 ords.
The market prices the prefs. at 9s. 3d. and
the ords. at 3s.
Warburton, Franki, Ltd.
Net Dividends To Re-
Profit. All Shares. serves. Deficit.
1924’. . 3,857 8 p.c. = 2880 977 717
Reserves.
1925.. 4,312 8 „ „ 2880 1,432 715
Assets revalued; goodwill (£12,677)
written off and general reserve added
to by £3646 .. .. .. .. 17,038
1926.. 6,513 10 p.c. = 3600 2,913 19,951
Unexplained reduction in reserves, £1707.. 18,244
1927.. 15,338 10 p.c. = 3600 11,738 29,982
Reserves capitalised, £9OOO .. .. 20.982
1928.. 15,496 12$ p.c. = 6390 9,106 30,088
1929.. 15,587 12-J „ „ 8490 7,097 37,185
1930.. 9,015 7 ~ „ 7000 2,015 39,200
Loss.
1931.. 7,619 Nil 31,581
1932.. 3,301 Nil . 28,280
The boom created an extraordinary demand
for electric refrigerators, due largely to
competition in the flat business. So' this
co., unable to do much good for itself in the
engineering trade, set to work to specialise
in these and other agency lines. More
capital was got in, earnings responded, and
the div. climbed rapidly from 8 p.c. to 12J
p.c. Then slump in the building trade and
elsewhere gave sales a nasty jolt, values fell
sharply before stocks could be cleared, and
the crop of bad debts was heavier than had
been expected. Thus a loss of £7619 was-reg-
istered in 1931, followed by a loss of £3301
last year. In 1930 there had been enough
profit to show 9 p.c. on capital as against
22.9, 30.3 and 42.6 p.c. back to 1927. But
these figures are no guide whatever to the
future ; keener competition for smaller busi-
ness at reduced prices is pretty certain to
mean moderate earnings. Much will depend
upon the co.’s success in developing other
lines.
The ords. are priced at 11s.; they fetched
355. 6d. three years back, and had dropped
to ss. 6d. 12 months ago. At 11s. the return
would be. 5.4 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div. basis. The
prefs. seldom come on to the market. There
are 20,000 of them, 7 p.c. cumulative, less
22| p.c. statutory cut, which advance beyond
their minimum rate with the ords., and
share in surplus assets. The backing for all
shares is 255. Bd. (book value) in net tan-
gibles.
The co. borrowed heavily to' finance the
growth of the business, and its policy for the
last three years has been to work down the
more or less liquids and lighten the debt: —
1929. 1930 1931. 1932.
Paid capital . . £BO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £loo,o*oo
Sundry creditors 112,343 59,265 32,699 23,930
Plant, 01 'etc. } 37 > 7?0 38 > 209 38,384 38 > 316
Stocks, etc! . . 85,363 80,390 69,141 55,194
Book debts . . 78,545 48,413 33,803 35,746
Investments, etc. 33,296 33,452 22,952 22,952
Last year stocks were reduced by £13.947
and £8769 was paid oft the debt. The
more or less liquid surplus (£89,962. includ-
ing stocks) slipped £3235. Fixed assets are
claimed to be conservatively valued, and
ample provision is said to have been made
for bad debts and the fall in stock values ;
much depends upon this.
West Australian Finance, Ltd.
Towards
Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Sept., Preliminary exes., £13,413 .. .. 13,413
1927.. 2,152 71 p.c. = 1947 205 13,208
Added preliminary exes., £1736 .. 14,944
1928.. 5,018 74 p.c. = 5081 15,007
1929.. 8,704 8| „ „ 6546 2158 12,849
1930.. 7,674 6-1 „ „ 4687 2987 9,862
Loss.
1931.. 13,522 Nil 23,384
1932.. 7,987 Nil 31,371
While loan funds from an indulgent mother
country were being scattered, and borrowers
cared little about the rate of interest, these
finance cos. showed what looked like quick
and good returns. This one set up in Perth
in 1926 to discount paper in the motor and
farm-implement trades. It put out 150,000
£1 shares called to 10s. at a cost of £15.149
• —brokerage, etc., is invariably heavy where
shares are not called up in full. The avail-
able capital was quickly placed, and, tempted
by the possibility of marginal gains on the
use of borrowed funds, the co. went to its
bankers. Shareholders received an average
of 7.7 p.c. in hastily distributed divs. for
the four years to the close of accounts in
(Continued on page 16.)


GO ORIENT
WITH THE MAI
TO EUROPE
VIA SUEZ
20,000
TONNERS
• • • •
Five sister ships .... most
modern British construction
F I R S T
SALOON
The highest British standard
of comfort at sea
THI
D
C LAS S
Moderate fares .... Value
beyond any reasonable
expectation
Orient line
COMFORT SERVICE SHIPS


Invfntors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, syaney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt.
jJ; # #
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches opinions,
advice Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). Advt.
jje
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life. —Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Street’ Sydnev; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES—Try LEMPRIERE & CO., Collins House,
Melbourne, when selling Ores, Metals, Scrap, or buy-
in"- Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys— Advt.
| The Metallurgical Works of
Ij'LH-.JJ’ A VICTOR leggo & CO.
PTY., LTD., at BENDIGO are specially
equipped for the treatment of REFRAC-
TORY GOLD ORES and CONCEN-
TRATES.
If you post a sample of the Ore or
Concentrate which you have for sale, it
will be assayed, and price submitted.
A sure friend in uncertain times.
m
m
m
m
mm
w
\
mm
m
¥
/
/
mm
A mere 7/6 a week invested
has grown to £1,058
IS there any other form of investment more profitable, more certain, '
than an A.M.P. policy? Pictured here are a couple who, since the
husband’s thirtieth year, have been putting 7/6 a week into a Table
J6O policy that would give them £6OO plus bonuses when he reached
60 years. Recently they drew £lO5B in a lump sum, happy in the
knowledge that, when some of their other investments have been seriously
affected by the depression, the A.M.P. investment has panned out better
even than they dreamed.
Thousands of A.M.P. members have this kind of insurance for their old
age. This is a list of some other policies paid out recently:—
Surely there is a broad hint here for every man. It is this: Take out
policies payable at death, of course, for these make wife and family
secure, but take out also a policy payable at 60 so that you can have
security for your own old age.
Particulars as to low cost from any officer or office of the Society.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
F. F. McBRYDE,
Assistant General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
BRANCH OFFICES AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH and HOBART.
District Offices throughout all States.
é
Ossets: £86,600,000.
Gives best possible contract.
1930 —there was then £9862 of the capital
still unrepresented by tangibles in the books.
But mortgages on future incomes pre-
sently proved to be dubious assets; creditors
began to ask for their money back, as they
mostly do in hard times, bad debts became
more numerous, and the moratorium and
ineterest-reduction legislation added greatly
to the difficulties.
Thus much of what the board had pre-
viously called profit has turned out to. be
losses. After reserving £BOOO as against
£lO,OOO in the previous term for doubtful
accounts, last year’s loss was £7987, or £5535
less than the previous year’s. .That raised
the amount of capital unrepresented by tan-
gibles in the books to £31,371 (= 4s. lOd.
per share) at Sept. 30. Of this £30,000 is
to be rubbed out by striking 4s. per share off
capital. Another shilling (£7500). is to.be
returned in cash, thus reducing paid capital
to £37,500 in fully-paid ss. shares —the exist-
ing uncalled liability is to be cancelled.
Though this will not assist the earning capa-
city of the assets, which, promises to be very
moderate in the future, it will clear the way
for the resumption of dividends, provided
debtors’ balances prove to be worth their
book value.
The position as balance-sheet figures show
it is as follows: —
1928. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. £74,756 £75,000 £75,000 £75,000
Liabilities.. .. 15,018 39,939 2,627 137
Advances, book
debts, etc. .. 78,194 108,007 50,402 35,595
Sundry assets .. 50 263 3,846 8,176
The year’s reduction of £14,807 in advances,
etc., enabled £2490 to be chipped off the
outside debt and £4330 to be added to
sundry assets, which included £5514 of cash.
Austral Silk and Cotton Mills
Though the protection was not so effective
as on woollens, the tariff and exchange have
brought this cotton-spinner on to the div.
list after a five-year wait—it paid 5 p.c.
last year. Australian Knitting Mills, Yarra
Falls, and the British textile interests in
Yarra Falls are the largest shareholders.
Paid capital is £215,000, and the pound
shares are selling at 19s. 6d. on the market.
For the twelve months to June last gross
profit (£26,655) sprang £19,112, and net
profit (£16,609) benefited by £14,172 of the
increase, reaching 7.7 p.c. on capital. All
intangibles have been wiped out, and reserves
figure" at £3407. Freeholds are in at £75,781;
plant, £80,955: stocks, £39,113 (down
£22,014). Debtors (£21,075) moved up
£5843 last term. Deposits and loans
(£37,126) complete the list of assets. Out-
siders were owed £30,415 at June 30.
The Barrier
Since Charlie Rasp pegged out the “hill
of mullock” at the Barrier in September,
1883, the field has yielded (to the end of
1931) £149,855,000 from 44,237,000 tons of
ore, equal to £3 Bs. per ton. Excluding
retreatment cos., dividends paid total
£34,178,000, or 15s. 6d. per ton of ore
mined. Details of outputs and distribution
are as follows: —
Ore Mined, Value of
Co. Tons. Output. Divs. Paid.
B.H. Prop. ..£11,992,005 £53,324,074 £13,655,247
B.H. South . . 7,856,226 22,209,320 5,075,000
North B.H. .. 6,420,355 17,718*641 5,272,690
Sulphide Corp. 5,113,333 26,811,642 3,466,875
Zinc. Corp. .. 3,881,019 9,387,239 3,178,471
British .. 2,853,091 5,858,998 821,280
Block 10 . . 2,403,636 4,946,989 1,431,500
Block 14 .. 1,589,643 4,749,915 670,160
Junction Nth. 1,295,290 3,511,940 171,431
B.H. Junction 1,833,206 1,185,058 87,500
Barrier South 151,517 50,000
Total .. £44,237,806 £149,855,333 £34,178,471
The North and South mines will probably
finish up with a tonnage greater than that
of B. H. Prop., but the fall in metal prices
may make the value of output and divi-
dends less. Broken Hill has had a tremen-
dous influence on Australia’s industrial
development. Undertakings for the birth of
which it has been directly responsible are
now giving employment to many thousands
of Australians in four States.
How long mining operations on a major
scale can be expected to continue at the
Barrier depends very largely upon costs and
metal prices. A recent estimate is that, at
present rates of extraction, there is another
20 years’ work or thereabouts ahead of the
field. Lately costs have been substantially
reduced by technical and other develop-
ments. The new Diesel-driven power plant,
the sinking of new shafts to facilitate extrac-
tion of ore from the lower levels and the
introduction of the all-flotation process have
resulted in large savings. Also, the extrac-
tion of crudes has been quickened, and
wmges have been reduced; £4 4s. has been
fixed a» an “irreducible minimum,” with
honuses when the London price of lead
exceeds £l6 per ton. During the half-
dozen years to' the close of accounts
in 1932 the South increased its extraction
of crudes by 15.7 p.c., reduced its mining,
development and treatment costs from 435.
11.5 d. to 30s. S.ld. per ton of ore, and
advanced its metal recoveries from 88.1 p.c.
to 95.1 p.c. lead, 77.3 p.c. to 84.4 p.c. zinc,
79.5 p.c. to 89.2 p.c. silver. The North and
Zinc Corp. have put up similar perform-
ances.
On the other hand 35 hours per week are
worked underground as against 44 hours
elsewhere in Australian mines, and metal
prices are shockingly low. London average
quotes compare as follows:
Silver
Average— Lead. (fine). Zinc.
6 Years June, 1929 .. £2O/ 8/- 2/6.9 £3O/ 7/I
12 months June, 1930 20/19/6 1/10.9 20/15/5
12 months June, 1931 14/16/1 1/3.8 13/13/2
12 months June, 1932 12/16/7 1/6.4 12/18/9
■ 5 months Nov., 1932 11/15/3 1/6.3 14/ 3/2
Dec. 21, 1932 .. 11/ 1/3 1/6 15/ 6/ 3
For the three years to June 30. 1932, ex-
change (bank rate) added £2 13s. 7d. p.c.,
' £l7 11s. 7d. p.c. and £27 2s. 4d. p.c. respec-
tively to t„he figures in the table for Aus-
tralian producers. The premium has been
steady at £25 p.c. throughout 1932. Never-
theless, on its mining operations the South
netted only £10,370 for the year to June 30,
compared with a loss of £65,422 in the pre-
vious term and a profit of £175,062 for
the 12 months before that. Thus, at the
moment, divs. depend mainly upon returns
from outside investments, which consist
largely of shares in associated enterprises.
What 1933 holds for the Barrier and
other base-metal concerns it is difficult to
say. The world’s production of lead is still
in excess of requirements, and the position
may take time to adjust itself, with a
consequent lag in the market price of the
metal. The outlook for zinc is better, and
the market has already strengthened. How-
ever, all the big cos. along the line of lode
at the Hill are snugly financed; and the
share-market counts on lead averaging more
than £ll in the long run.
Although the Electrolytic Zinc Co.’s new
mill at Rosebery (Tas.) has been ready for
over 12 months, there is still no prospect ot
the plant starting up. Broken Hill mines
can make little profit with ore carrying
15 p.c. lead, 12 p.c. zinc and 7oz. of silver;
at Rosebery the grade is 6 P-c. lead and
20 p.c. zinc. The power now available from
the Mt. Lyell Co.’s hydro-electric plant at
Lake Margaret would not be sufficient for
the requirements at Rosebery; _ so rivers in
the vicinity of Rosebery are being examined
for possible power-house sites.
* * * *
For some months the Mt. Lyell Co. has
been investigating the recovery of pyrite
from the mill tailings, as well as its utilisa-
tion for the manufacture of sulphuric acid to
be used in the production of superphosphate.
By improving the grade of concentrates from
17 p.c. to 22 p.c. copper, more and more
pyrite has been pushed into the tailings. In
addition to current mill tailings, the co. has
available 1,500,000 tons of low-grade pyritic
ore, carrying small quantities of copper and
‘gold, in the old Mt. Lyell “blow.”
* * * *
Mt. Coolon (Q.) has sampled, the old Nec-
tarine shaft, some 1100 ft. east of its main
shaft. The assays were low, 225. per ton
over a width of 3-Jft. On No. 3 level SOft.
of the main drive has shown stone worth
only 65., while a winze_ from No. 3 has been
sunk 12ft. in ore assaying 345. In each case
the gold was valued at 84s. per oz.
* * * *
During November Kingston Gold Mines
near Brisbane, put 837 tons through the
battery for 420 z. 14dwt. of gold. Also. 660
tons of tailings were treated in the cyaniding
plant for 990 z. The slimes, representing
approximately 25 p.c. of the crushing and
averaging around 6dwt., remain to be treated.
The ore is thus averaging t 0 the
ton. The new Empire mill, capable of treat-
ing a further 50 tons daily, is complete.
Average stone is showing in the north and
south cuts, which have been extended.
SjS v Mi Mi
Golden Surprise, North Arm (Q.), has
bought a new 114-h.p. crude-oil engine, .and
is preparing the foundations for another
compressor and for extra stamps. The aim
is to put through 500 tons of ore monthly, and
thus hasten the payment of dividends. The
new cyaniding plant is now in full swing.
To date it has treated 120 tons of sands for
186 oz. of gold. The co. recently crushed
174 tons from the Surprise lease for 182 oz.
and 42 tons from the Extended lease for
51£oz. The reef on the Extended is opening
up well.
:1s * * *
At Taringa, a suburb of Brisbane, a re-
lief worker, engaged on an _ excavation job,
struck a gold-bearing reef 4in. to 6in. wide,
leading directly under _ the State school
buildings. A sample dollied well and a claim
has been applied for.
* * * *
Boring by the Berry Leads Co. at Cres-
wick (Vic.) has- disclosed a tributary deep
lead with 3ft. of wash showing good gold
at depths of 100 ft to 150 ft. Boring is
being continued close to the Allendale rail-
way station.
* * * #
The Golden Lily at Aberfeldy (Vic.) looks
better now than it has for several years.
High-gnade ore, 24in. wide, is showing in
the top levels, and a block between Nos. 2
and 3 tunnels (they are 355 ft. apart) _ is
being tested. Improvements to the crushing
and concentrating plant have resulted in
better recoveries.
* * * #
Big Hill Gold has been formed in Mel-
bourne with a capital of £30,000 to reopen
the Big Hill mine at Kangaroo Flat (Vic.).
The shaft has been unwatered to. 125 ft., and
a 10-head battery is almost completed.
$ $
The Aberfoyle Co., near Storey’s Creek
(Tas.), is regularly treating 200 tons weekly,
and obtaining 4 tons of high-grade tin con-
centrates and 3 tons of seconds, plus about
sewt. of wolfram. The profit is about £l6O
per week; so the 12,500 10 p.c. prefs. are in
the picture, and quarterly divs. on the 50,000
pound ords. are expected in the new year.
A slight rise in the price of tin would help
greatly. General-manager W. E. Hitchcock,
who is largely responsible for the co.’s suc-
cess, has joined the board.
* * * #
The Tasmanian Asbestos Co., at Beaeons-
field, has commenced grading fibres from the
opencut ore, and a shipment will be made
early in the New Year. Australia used to
import £135,000 worth’ of asbestos packings
and brake linings annually. The value of
the crude material depends wholly on the
length of the fibre; Canada. Africa and
Russia in that order are the chief producers.
* * * *
White arsenic'has been placed on the duty-
free list in Britain and the non-Empire duty
of 10 p.c. abolished. At £24 per ton,
the market in England is not attractive
to Australia. Wiluna, with a maximum
output of 1000 tons arsenic in excess of
Australia’s normal demand (2500 tons annu-
ally), is the principal producer; the material
is recovered from the roaster gases in
large chambers erected by Leggo and Co.
The Boliden gold-arsenic mine in Sweden
is producing arsenic at the rate of 50.000
tons per annum, which is equal to the whole
world’s requirements; it is storing the sur-
plus. Unless new uses for arsenic can be
found, a further decline in price seems
inevitable.
* * * *
Three leases totalling 112 acres at the
north end of the Kalgoorlie field have been
taken by a Melbourne syndicate. The proper-
ties are Devon Consols Extended, which has
a shaft to 330 ft. and has produced £25,000
worth of gold; the Fairplay, with a shaft
to 200 ft. and a solid reef with patches of
telluride; and the Rising Sun, from which
crushings totalling 250 tons have yielded
1600 oz. A treatment plant with a capacity
of 60 tons daily is available.
❖ * * *
On the North Kalgurli Central lease,
which is about 65 chains north-east of the
Great Boulder mine, at the 87ft. level a
rise on No. 4 lode is showing 15dwt. ore over
a width of sft., and No. “3 lode is being
stripped t 0 the full width of 12ft. Assays
go 6dwt. The five-head battery has been
started up to treat this development ore.
During the first 11 months of 1932 33
new gold-mining cos. were registered in
Maoriland with an aggregate nominal capital
of £499,274. Of these 20 were formed in
Auckland _ (aggregate capital, £205,274).
Two sluicing concerns, registered in Dun-
edin, had the highest individual capitals—
£os,ooo each. Most of the new ventures
are operating in the Otago, West Coast,
Thames and Coromandel districts. In addi-
tion. an antimony concern with a capital
of £20,000 was recently formed to operate
at Endeavor Inlet.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
-T.H.C.: Not much in the way of divs. need be
expected from shipping and coal cos. for a while.
This one, however, holds a large wad of Government
paper, etc., which makes a part return of capital
ono of the possibilities of the future. .. .G.D.K.: (1)
and (2) Buyers advertise in the “S. M. Herald”
under “Money, Stocks and Shares”; or you can
remove the stones and send the parcel to Royal
Mint, Melbourne.... J.S.S.: No record; have written
asking for balance-sheet.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Education Problems
Dear 8.,— Throughout the country there
is the usual spate of pedagogic eloquence at
school break-ups. The typical headmaster
appears to me to have a pathetic belief in
the importance of platitudes, the hoarier the
better. One says that what the boy needs
is firm guidance. In what direction is not
stated. Another says that what the country
needs is honest leaders. Towards what aims
is not stated. Still another says the purpose
of education is to produce good citizens.
What constitutes a good citizen isn’t stated.
Still another says what is needed is courage.
Courage for what is not stated. (Burglars
sometimes have lots of it.) The fundamental
thing that no schoolmaster appears to realise
is that the schools are in precisely the same
position as every other industry. The un-
absorbed goods they are producing will
inevitably depreciate because the boy who
has been trained to be an expert at some-
thing and can’t practise his profession will
be miserably unfitted for his leisure,
because he has never been taught that self-
development is as important as swotting up
facts to get an exam. pass. It may be news
to the pedagogues, but suicidal tendencies
are very prevalent among young men who
have left school for some years and failed to
find a footing in the community, and penolo-
gists report an alarming increase in juvenile
delinquency.-—Yours, Magis (Vic.).
Relief Work
Dear B., —The relief workers here (Q.)
are mostly engaged in improving roads.
Certainly the roads can do with improve-
ment, but we could manage with them as
they are,, and the country is too poor at the
moment to go in for work that shows no
return. The man on the land pays relief
tax and does not consider that there is
anything to show for it. It could be done
better this way. If a man increases his
wage bill, he should get a rebate of tax —
say to the extent of one-fourth of the extra
wages. The man on the land hates paying
out dead money; and if some scheme like
this were initiated he would rush it. It
would mean that far more real relief work
would be available and the country would
be getting some return on the cost of it.-
Yours, Sylvester ( Q. ).
A New Way to Float Loans
Dear B., — Re that eight million loan we
have just floated, or attempted to float. I
hold that the issue is all wrong. We flo,at
a loan for ten years at 3| p.c., so in ten
years we pay £3,000,000 in interest, and
still owe eight millions ; then, being unable
to pay it, we will doubtless renew the loan.
If that goes on for forty years we will have
paid 12 millions in interest and will still
owe the eight millions. We must find some
better way. My scheme is this. Float the
loans for forty years in the first place. Pay
interest and sinking fund instalments at
5 p.c. p.a.; in forty years, on such a loan
as we have just floated, we will have paid
16 millions, but we will be free of the debt.
This scheme has two advantages. We will
put in circulation annually 1J per cent, more
than under the present plan; and we will
force each generation to pay its own debts.
—Yours, L. D.
The Farmer and His Troubles
Dear Bulletin, —As a Resident in an
overboomed N.S.W. wheat town, I say that
such disabilities as the farmers labor under
have been caused (1) by their folly in pay-
ing (or contracting to' pay) inflated prices
for land, and (2) their improvidence, in the
years of high prices. I, for one, having the
burden to bear of my own payment of in-
flated prices for investment property, object
to' being further burdened with doles for
people who committed the same mistakes
as I myself did. The last two- seasons
have been bumper ones, and so will this one
be. If nothing less than a bounty of 6d.
a bushel will satisfy farmers now, what
will be demanded when the inevitable drought
arrives ?
As for the woolgrowers, they also are
on the cadge for an increase in the rate of
exchange. The report of the Wool Com-
mittee purported to show that wool is being
produced at a loss; but since this com-
mittee was constituted of interested parties,
and since the cost was stated to be that
of “producing wool,” without any apparent
consideration of natural increase, too much
notice need not be taken of it.
All of which does not mean that one may
not feel a sincere sympathy with men hard
hit, and a personal willingness to do all
•possible and practicable for them; but it
does mean (a) that help, when in cash,
should be rather in the nature of a loan
than of a gift, a first charge on land, re-
payable when better times return ; (6) that
it would be a good thing if the present
inflated land values were drastically reduced,
if necessary by the dispossession of the pre-
sent owners where they are insolvent, and
resale to those willing to pay a fair price
(decent land is still being held at prices far
above its present or immediately prospec-
tive productive value) ; and (c) that further
tinkering with the exchange is only an under-
hand way of robbing the many for the bene-
fit of the few.
Finally, I believe a good law would be
that at least one-half of the purchase price
should be paid by the buyer at the time of
sale, whether of land or of chattels. The
basis of the trouble of high land values is
the small deposit and the big mortgage,
whereby the farmer’s equity disappears at
the first sign of depression and the mort-
gagee is reluctant to allow himself to be
brought back to earths —Yours, Polloi.
Salaries and Pensions
Dear Bulletin, —How can Australian
politicians reconcile their actions in reduc-
ing pensions and (apparently) approving the
cuts in wages, declaring that a working man
can live in reasonable comfort on £2 10s.
to £3 7s. a week, while reserving for them-
selves salaries of £750 a year and upwards?
These salaries are outrageous. A man,
elected originally by the workers, is made
President of the Senate at £lBOO p.a. He
had no education or training to speak of,
and his job really carries no responsibility.
Yet here is the British Government retiring
post-captains in the Navy and colonels in
the Army—men who have spent a lifetime
learning their jobs, many years almost with-
out pay—on £4OO a year. Have we lost all
our sense of proportion? Do we not realise
that we are driving decent men into the
ranks of the Communists? —-Yours, Sans
,Culqtte (Papua).
Funeral Expenses
Dear Bulletin, —Some action ought to
be taken to prevent undertakers exploiting
the relatives of deceased persons. My own
experience is, I understand, similar to that
of hundreds. Some months ago I lost my
wife. The undertaker was kindness itself.
His only question was whether she was
insured or not, and upon receiving an affirma-
tive reply he jotted down the name of the co.
After discussing one or two details of the
very simple funeral, I signed an innocent-
looking paper. I had nothing to worry
about —the undertaker would arrange every-
thing ; the minister, the cemetery plot,
wreaths. For the very simple funeral —-
hearse and two mourners’ coaches (which
had to travel approximately two miles on
the round trip from the undertaker’s
parlors), three wreaths and cemetery fees —
I was charged £7B, which included an amaz-
ing collection of sundries. I interviewed the
undertaker and offered him £5O in full
settlement. It was turned down flat. The
next day I received a cheque from the insur-
ance co. covering the small insurance due,
made payable to the undertaker, with a note
to the effect that they understood I had no
banking account, and the undertaker would
be pleased to cash the cheque for me. The
premiums had always been paid by cheque, so
the drawing of the cheque in that way was
most obviously inspired. It was then I got
my solicitor to work. His letter to the
insurance co. soon brought a cheque payable
to myself, and upon his instructions I for-
warded my own cheque for £5O to the under-
taker. He issued a receipt for an “on
account” payment. Last week he called to
serve me with a summons for the balance. He
explained liow painful it would be to defend
an action for not paying for my late wife’s
funeral. My solicitor advised me to pay,
as the little paper I had signed on the day
of her death indemnified the undertaker for
all work undertaken and expenses incurred.
There was no amount stipulated. So I had
to pay £1 for a wreath and another pound
because the undertaker got it for me. And
-so on. And naturally no man would will-
ingly appear in court for non-payment of his
wife’s funeral expenses. It should be pos-
sible to fix certain charges by Act. If it
can be done as to eggs and butter, surely
it can be done to protect surviving relatives
who are in no condition to argue costs. —
Yours, Davy ( Q.) -
Australian Shipping
Dear Bulletin, —You say (2/11/’32)
that an effect of the Navigation Act has
been to weaken our coastal trade. For my
own part, and speaking as a sea-going per-
son, I say it was not this Act that sounded
the death-knell of our shipping but the
amalgamation of Australian steamship cos
with overseas interests. Since then most of
the direction is from London, and local
executives are changed so frequently that
efficiency cannot be expected. Twenty years
ago a wholesome spirit of rivalry existed
between the various cos., and ships like the
Indarra, Katoomba and Canberra, sailing
under different house flags, and free of
“working arrangements,” left on the same
day for the same port, each striving to beat
the other’s time. Speed was the main factor
then; but now; in spite of modern engineer-
ing improvements; we have coal-saving time-
tables, worn-out .passenger vessels from
India, and the Dimboola, in her old age, pro-
moted to the Queensland trade, taking about
60 hours between Brisbane and Sydney (500
miles). Is it any wonder in these days of
quick transit, when airships and fast trains
cate*- fo'r the business man, that loafing, fuel-
saving ships are without passengers?
Many other questions require answering
to clear up an intolerable position. Is there
a sinister motive behind the moves of the
shipping octopus? Is it not possible that
our vessels are lessening in quantity (ton-
nage) and quality (speed and comfort), so
that eventually overseas ships owned by the
same interests and employing cheaper labor
will be the only passenger-carrying vessels
available? Why is it that local shipping
managers failed to see the practicability ox
Christmas excursions to Norfolk and l j ?rd
Howe Islands in ships on Australian
articles ? The overseas steamers are tulfy
booked—the Strathaird filled in nine hours
—while our vessels lie idle. —Yours, Elless.
Postal Services
Dear Bulletin, —I recently moved irom
one suburb of Sydney to another and found
that the nearest post-box or -office was more
than a mile from my house. In the country
there would be nothing unusual about that.
But I reside in a street of more than a
hundred occupied houses, surrounded by
dozens of other similar streets. Naturally
very few of the three thousand or so affected
people have any inclination to make a
forty-minute walk for the purpose of posting
a letter, especially on a wet night; and so
letters have to be held over until the baker
or the butcher happens to call. Such pre-
h'istoricism seems well-nigh incredible. Yet
it happens in a thickly-populated suburb
barely fifteen minutes’ train journey from
Sydney Central. In my late suburb four
post-boxes were within three hundred yards,
and served the wants of less than half the
number of people who cannot even boast
one box between them. —Yo til's, J. E. B.
Restricting Production
Dear Bulletin, —What’s the use of
people talking about curtailing crop produc-
tion until all hands get the curtailing habit?
To pay taxes, rates, interest, machinery
instalments, storekeepers’ bills, etc., Cocky
has to go for the lick of his life and grow
as much wheat as he can, otherwise he will
be submerged in debt. The trouble is low
prices are compelling him to spread his acre-
age, which means drawing too much on soil
fertility. Will the other fellows start the
game by making, say, 20 per _ cent, cuts?
The farmer could then reduce liis crop acre-
age by the same percentage. Probably wheat
lands’beyond the safety limit will be forced
out of production and abandoned, but it will
be a calamity if high-priced lands which
represent solid investments cannot be kept
on a full productive basis. This is an aspect
the anti-bounty mob overlooked.—Yours etc.,
Geokge Icks.
THE ACROBAT.
“The Garden-Graves group in the Sydney Trades Hall, which has hitherto stood behind J. T. Lang, is sustaining a
series of defeats at the hands 'of the socialisation group; and it is believed that Mr. Lang is preparing to transfer himself
to the latter party.”
J.T.L.: “Now for a flying leap before this lets me down.”


DOUBLE
GEARED
e
BILLABONG
ENCLOSED
GEAR
WINDMILL 1932
THE BEST THING YET IN WINDMILLS.
If you are thinking of installing a Windmill it will
be well worth while to learn all about the New
Enclosed Gear Billabong, a Double-geared powerful
and easy-running Mill designed and constructed to
give many extra years of Service.
Some of the many Special Features of the New
Billabong Windmill—Double Geared, Ball Bearings
on the Main Shaft, Ball-bearing Race on the Tower
Cap, Self Oiling, Totally Enclosed.
Descriptive Folder Post Free on Request.
WROUGHT-IRON PIPES AND FITTINGS—ALL
SIZES AT LOWEST PRICES.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, 0.1.
334-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MODEL
I
SELF-
OILING
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Blue Roses”
ROYAL “The Gondoliers”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Waltzes from Vienna”
Kudo's “Treasure Island”
State Movies and Talkies
Incubating a Pantomime
Of course, everyone, in these days when
the most intimate trade secrets of the Press,
the Pulpit and the Stage arg laid bare on
the cinema screen, knows exactly what a
theatrical rehearsal is like. Not an amateur
show, of course —they’re naice—but a real
professional affair. There’s always a man
Bullies the girls, poor things.”
in a hat, with a scowl arranged round a
large cigar, who bullies the actors un-
mercifully, especially the girls, poor things.
They are all on the verge of hysterics, and
it’s a wonder how they get through any work
at all. So when Frith suggested to the
Showman an investigation of the process
of incubating a Christmas pantomime it was
with the direst forebodings that they sallied
forth.
They needn’t have wasted all those dire
forebodings. The panto, selected for inspec-
tion, though not quite ripe, had evidently
cut its teeth, and the work of preparing it
seemed to be proceeding with profound calm.
It was in a big theatre down near Sydney’s
central railway station, belonging to George
Marlow. Jim Gerald is the producei', and
when Frith and the Showman arrived he had
the centre of the stage, surrounded by sundry
girls in trunks and blouses and sundry men
in shirt-sleeves. He was remarking in low
and amiable tones: “And now I shall stonker
the Demon Illwill and his merry imps, and lay
hands upon the treasure. Is Mr. Bardell
up there? Don’t bother about fixing that
now; it’ll do in the morning. Ha! The
Demon approaches, curse him! Hello,
darling (this to an ample lady who appeared
in one of the boxes) ! Well, that’ll do for
that.”
Then 12 little girls and 12 bigger girls,
all with legs and arms that fairly rippled
with muscles—“ They’re all as hard as nails,”
remarked Mr. Gerald to the visitors —per-
formed intricate dance-steps, to be occasion-
ally halted and mildly instructed. “Don’t
you bully them?” asked Frith. “Good Lord,
no!” remarked Mr. Gerald with pious fervor.
“If I did they’d cry, and be no darned use
George Marlow, who always puts his left
boot on first.
for anything.” Then he went on the stage
again and supervised a duel scene with
swords—a lesson in the rudiments of fenc-
ing. Four or five times a scene was re-
peated, every word of every sentence uttered
by the principals receiving attention and cor-
rection. Gesture, too. “You’re surprised.
Turn suddenly, like this, and show it in your
dial.” Exactly what that scene was all about
was a mystery. It was mostly in
dumb-show, without props or costumes, and
the producer’s contributions to it were so
mingled with his duties as mentor that it
was hard to say what belonged to the scene
and what didn’t. Two very burly men were
nailing things to the footlights; chorus girls
in the wings sewed, read their parts, if they
had any lines, or practised their yo-yo—oh,
yes: that’s part of a ballet! A black cat
ambled unconcernedly about the stage, the
rear of which was cluttered with a vast
array of fantastic scenery, mostly in course
of construction. The eat raised the subject
of stage superstitions. Jim Gerald, who
spent his first eight professional years in a
circus, contributed to a discussion in front
the information that in the tent shows three
things are anathema —a twisted whip, a
broomhandle and a carpet bag. Both he
and George Marlow admitted to observing
religiously the practice of putting on one’s
left boot first. The chorus-girls’ supersti-
tion, it was disclosed, is that one mustn’t
pass two nuns without touching them.
It was Mr. Mai’low who laid down the
axiom that a producer should be as chary
of praise as of blame, and cited a terrible
example—Jack Somebodyorotker. One day
when Jack was with George Rignold the
great man praised him before the whole com-
pany, and praise from Rignold was praise
indeed. What happened? Jack took to
drink and died iix the gutter.
The rehearsal went on. A piano sounded
softly at intervals. Jim Gerald’s voiefl
seldom rose above a conversational murmur.
The young dancing-mistreSs spoke firmly
but without animus to Muriel, Joyce, Beryl
and Peggy—they must. keep in step. All
the time the Showman and Frith were there
there wasn’t anything said by the producer
or anyone in authority that would have been
out of place in an ordinarily affectionate
family circle. Not a bit sensational, - you
see. But it explains, perhaps, how those
bright Australian youngsters manage to look
so happy on the stage.
“Pantomime Revels,” at Sydney’s New
Tivoli, is a Jim Gerald show. Jim wrote it
and produced it, and he is the Dame. As
is usual with pantomime dames this one is
pestered by a “nasty, miserly, unscrupulous
gent.,” Baron Flint (Reg Hawthorne). She
is also blessed with more children than she
“Hello, darling!”
can handle, including Marjorie (Heather
Jones), in love with Jack Daring (Viima
Kaye), “so handsome and tall,” Emma (Lily
Coburn) and Horace (Lou Cottam). These,
plus Fairy Goodwill (Frieda Bonning),
Demon Illwill (Will Perryman), Toxoplio-
lite (Howard Hall) and Donald, the Dancing
Donkey, lead a tangled, hurried life, from
their appearance in the Fairy Grotto until
they reach the Palace of Happiness. When
not clowning, plotting or spooning, each char-
acter, except the donkey, takes it in turn
to warble. Jim Gerald scores with “I Said
Who” and “What Are You Going to Do
About Mary?”; and the sentimental numbers
sung by Viima Kaye and Heather Jones went
down well with a Christmas-eve audience.
Twined into the proceedings are the acrobatic
Cleveres, Beryl Martin and Allan Boyd,
dancers, and Sport, a performing dog. The
20 or so different scenes are well varied and
colorful. The ballets, particularly that
manned, or rather girled, by tots, arc a
strong feature, and Phyllis Baker deserves
a pat on the back for the costumes she de-
signed.
XXX
“Blue Roses,” a phenomenon observed
earlier in the year at the same location,
bloom again at Sydney Her Majesty’s. The
Desmond Carter-Vivian Ellis hybrid has
altered but little in the interim. The color-
ing is as vivid and shows the same signs of
wilting after a couple of hours of exposure.
Cecil Kellaway’s place as the simple-minded
sleuth w r ho guarded the precious bloom has
been taken by Gus Bluett, who on the open-
ing night was given an ovation on his first
appearance that held up the play. Mary
Rigby replaces Alathea Siddons in the role
of the Mayfair florist who was at the back
of the pilfering of the unique flower. The
old-timers continue to do as well as before.
Madge Elliott and Cyril Ritchard are at
their best when dancing, but Ritchard scores
“A lesson in the rudiments of fencing.”
many chuckles. Little Leo Franklyn is still
the American millionaire and steals the show
in all scenes in which lie appears. Dulcie
Davenport and Frank Leighton are again the
pair who constitute the second love match.
The rest give a good account of themselves
and Andrew MacCunn’s orchestra gets the
most out of the music.
XXX
If thousands of Melbourne youngsters and
their parents and guardians do not allow
J. C. Williamson, Ltd., to turn the pages of
R. L. Stevenson’s “Treasure Island” for
them at the King’s there will be something
wrong with the present generation. J. B.
Fagan has made a seamanlike job of _ his
dramatisation. There are no head winds
or baffling calms in it, and the ripping,
roaring melodrama goes with a swing from
start to finish.
A sterling cast of gentlemen and ruffians
interprets the opus. They haven’t much
to do except shout at the top of their
lungs and shoot with the deadly precision
of the stage marksman, whose bullets never
fail to find billets. Long John Silver (Ver-
non Fortescue) is the only member of the
cast with pretensions to characterisation,
lie dominates the play, with his left leg
tucked up under the skirts of a long-tailed
coat and a stuffed parrot securely fastened
to his shoulder. There is a striking scene
when his gang turns on him and hands
him the black spot. Jefferson Taite, Colin
Crane, Tal Ordell and Raymond Longford
are among the assortment of hoarse-voiced
desperadoes. Harvey Adams is the honor-
able Captain Smollett, George Blunt the
pompously-amusing Squire, and Beckett
Bould doubles the parts of Captain Billy
Bones (sent to his ancestors in the first
act) and Ben Gunn, the demented Robinson
Crusoe of Treasure Island. Mrs. Hawkins
(Madge Hope) is the only woman in the
piece, which has no room for feminine top-
hamper. Jim Hawkins, the beau ideal of
the adventure-loving small boy, is well
played by Harold Reese, who brings the
house down when he cuts the Hispaniola’s
cable and finishes off the last remaining
pirate after a chase over the ship’s rigging.
George Upward’s scenery is a set of first-
rate illustrations to the text. You see the
Hispaniola first off Bristol Docks, anon roll-
ing very convincingly on the high seas lit by
moonlight, and finally anchored off the island.
As to the last, nautical critics might com-
plain that Captain Smollett ought to have
been brought before a Marine Board inquiry
for leaving his ship at anchor with all sails
set, but that is a detail.
XXX
The trickle of feeble sentimentality which
runs through “Waltzes from Vienna,” which
had its Australian premiere at Melbourne
Royal on Saturday, links it up with
“Lilac Time,” in which the librettist painted
a sickly portrait of Schubert, who, being
dead, couldn’t retaliate. In “Waltzes from
Vienna” Johann Strauss, jun., is the victim.
Johann (John Moore) is music-teacher to
Therese Ebeseder (Shirley Dale). He tells
her that music doesn’t come from the head
but from the heart, and that the heart
has to be touched by the love of a beautiful
woman, or the springs of inspiration run
dry. On this theory his music is perfectly
explainable. Johann Strauss, sen. (Aubrey
Mallalieu), doesn’t like his son’s music, and
tries to stop him composing it, in which
endeavor he has this Showman’s entire sym-
pathy. Johann, jun., enlists the support of
the Countess Olga Baranskaja, a Russian
lady, who obtains an imperial order for
the elder Strauss to proceed to St. Peters-
burg when he is on the point of conducting
an orchestra at Vienna. The old man goes,
and Strauss seeundus picks up his baton.
Failure is predicted for the performance,
but the young man produces “The Blue
Danube” out of his hat, so to speak, and
the evening is a triumph. He gets his appro-
priate reward in the hand of the fair Therese
Ebeseder.
The story and the music, however, are of
small importance besides the spectacle and
the dancing, and, in fact, the music is very
well suited to be the breeze that stirs the
foliage of shapely limbs. Chief among these
are the pair belonging to Ivy Kirby, a pre-
miere danseuse who is new to Australia. Miss
Kirby is well-nourished, and her sturdiness
makes her snowflake lightness all the more
remarkable. The lady gives the impression
that she could dance on the cream on a dish
of milk without going through it. Shirley
Dale and Miriam Babbage are no great
shakes as singers, nor is John Moore likely to
be vocally as much to the public taste as
Sidney BurchaU, Neither Cecil Kelleway nor
Leslie Donaghey has much to cut his teeth on
in the matter of comic relief in a show so
artificial. Nevertheless, taken all in all,
“Waltzes from Vienna” is the most sumptu-
ous display since the Premiers’ Plan sent
pink fleshings to the pawnshop. The grand
finale is a triumph for Frederick Blackman,
who has to do without the revolving stage
used in the original production, but makes
up for it by the astute marshalling of his
forces.
x x x
“Aladdin” at Melb. Tiv. is the most ambi-
tious flight the Connors and Paul organisa-
tion has yet attempted. The scenic effects
and the corps of 40 ballerinas have made an
unusually large hole in the management’s
money-box. In the absence of Mo tlfe show
is almost as proper as a Methodist tea-meet-
ing and the humor purveyed by Bob Stevens,
direct from the London Palladium, and Sid
Beck, direct from Bondi, would not bring
a blush to the cheek of a curate. Stevens
has solid qualities as a comedian which are
given small opportunity by the anonymous
author of the libretto. Mike Connors, as
Abanaza the Magician, in a stove-pipe hat and
a check suit, puts it all over the Emperor of
China, in the person of Russell Callow,
a potentate who would fail to strike
terror into an infant school. Nellie Kolle’s
Aladdin hardly pays interest in melodious
notes, but she is a satisfying spectacle.
Phyllis Baker is the Princess Badroubadour,
more or less passionately in love with Alad-
din. Sheila Cruise as ITairy Lovelight is
a walking testimonial to the reliability of
the Electricity Commission’s current supply.
The part of Bonox the Bull is shared
between the Ritchie Boys. The plot, which'
makes fugitive appearances between Cuzco’s
animal circus and the four dancing Mar-
vellos, is as difficult to follow as a serial
story in the Christmas annuals, but that only
means that “Aladdin” is a panto.
"Read, their parts or practised their yo-yos.”
The New Sydney Rep. Theatre tried panto,
on Boxing Night and “Cinderella” was chosen
for the experiment. The Prince (W. Gates)
and the Page (Virginia Coyle) stood the
test pretty well, and C. R. Mackenzie enter-
tained the kiddies as the Cat. To be repeated
to-night.
*X X
“Leave It to Psmith” kept Pickwick
Theatre Group followers chuckling at the
Sydney Savo3L There are more than a score
of characters, and the chief ones bear familiar
Wodehouse brands. Edward Webster as
Psmith w T as much too slow ; Charles Arundel-
Nott was better all round as the inane Bos-
ham, and Cedric Kempson was well suited as
Middlewick. Phillip Lewis played the part
of a crook with gusto. Among the ladies
Phyllis Puller as Eve Ilalliday scored first
honors, with Patricia Pantin , a close
runner-up.


è
Your Petrol Bill can be Reduced.
THE “SAVEPET” Mileage Multiplier will give
you approximately 20% MORE MILES per gallon.
Definitely better starting and accelerating. More
POWER AND PEP in your engine.
Let us fit you one ON TRIAL!
NO RESULTS—NO PAY.
ASSOCIATED BRITISH
’Phone: 8W6301.
DISTRIBUTORS (AUST.), 16-20 Bridge St., Sydney.
Attractive Sales Plan for Reliable Agents.
SUNSHINE HARVESTING MACHINES
Sunshine Auto Header,
Sunshine Header Harvester.
nr. —j
Hi—rj*
Sunshine Stripper Harvester.
THE SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
12ft. Cut. Self-Propelled. (See top illustration.)
Will harvest 40 acres in a day. Petrol consumption half a gallon to the acre.
Two men only required, one to drive and one to tend the bagging onthe
bagging platform. The Auto Header secures the maximum yield pf grain
from every condition of crop, heavy or light, storm-flattened or weed-infested.
It is Quick, Efficient and Economical.
THE SUNSHINE HEADER HARVESTER
6ft., Bft. and 10 ft. cut. (See centre illustration.)
Sunshine Header Harvesters are renowned for their ability to pick up and
successfully harvest the worst down and tangled or thistle-choked crops.
They are equally effective in clean standing crops, whether heavy or light,
on hillside or level ground.
For work on very sandy or hilly country, or for rice-harvesting, the machine
can be supplied with a 4-cylinder petrol engine incorporated to drive the
mechanism. A small team suffices for haulage.
The Sunshine Header Harvester also harvests field peas, and for this purpose
a special pea-reaping front is attached to the 6ft. or Bft. machine. In conse-
quence, peas can be profitably grown as a rotation crop.
THE SUNSHINE STRIPPER HARVESTER
Type A.L., Bft. and 10ft. cut. (See bottom illustration.)
The light-draught harvester. Five horses pull it in normal crop, six horses
in heavy conditions. Side draught is reduced to a minimum. Successfully
harvests light and heavy crops.
ALSO THE SUNSHINE REAPER AND BINDER
Sweet running, sure tying, neat sheafing, long lasting—6ft. and Bft. sizes.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
(SUNSHINE SECTION) r i ,
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
BRANCHES: 664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne; 27-39 George Street West, Sydney; 95-97 North ’ SouriTßruSniT
and King Streets, Perth. Queensland Distributors: H. V. McKay Massey Hams (Qland) Pty„ Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Illustrated Descriptive Catalogues, Prices and Terms, Posted Free on Request.
SHADOW SHOWS.
The scenario of “Love Me To-Night, ’ now
at Sydney Prince Edward, is unusually thm
even for a Chevalier picture. The result
is that producer Beuben Mamoulian lias had
to adopt every known device to spin tne
film out to an hour and a half. The action
ic frequently delayed while the camera
records in detail the roof-tops of fTiris.
There is even a prolonged close-up ot cne-
valier’s famous straw boater. Chevalier
repeats all his old tricks, but they are cer-
tainly appreciated. He has only to wmK,
pucker his large lips or shrug his shoulders
to win an appreciative sigh from every
woman in the audience.. Jeanette MacDonald
displays more animation than usual, and
her smile and voice are as sweet as of yore.
Charles Buggies is amusing as an impecuni-
ous vicomte; so is Charles Butterworth as
a chicken-hearted count. C. Aubrey Smith
is a dignified duke, and the actresses who
portray the three maiden aunts are priceless.
The songs are tuneful. Chevalier sings Isn t
it Bomantic?” when showing a customer out
of his Paris tailor’s shop. It is taken up
by passers-by and so spreads through the
country until it reaches the ears of Jean-
ette MacDonald, who is a princess pining in
a rural castle. Eventually Maurice, who. is
chasing the vicomte, the princess’s cousin,
for money, arrives at the castle and is
passed off by his flabbergasted debtor as a
blue-blood. All goes well with his wooing
until Jeanette learns that he is a tailor,
when he is dismissed with scorn. The tailor
and the princess are eventually united to the
tune of the theme song.
¥ ¥ ¥
Nothing more ambitious has been
attempted by a British producer than “Fires
of Fate” at Sydney Plaza. It is based on
Conan Doyle’s “Tragedy of the Ivorosko
and it was made in co-operation with the
8.A.F., and the Camel Corps in Egypt.
Though some of the shots have been taken at
angles which confuse the picture, it compares
favorably, on the whole, with anything of the
sort that Hollywood has done. The story
tells how a tourist party was kidnapped for
ransom by a rebel desert tribe. Lester Mat-
thews has chief rSle as a paralysed. colonel
who is cured miraculously by a rifle-butt
blow. Dorothy Bartlam is one of those
plump heroines the English seem to like,
and Clifford Heatherley gives a capital study
of a Gyppo guide.
Grade Fields, the Lancashire ex-mill girl
who is the idol of the English music-hall
stage, is an acquired taste. She excels in
farce, broad repartee and homely pathos, and
her rather strident voice has spots of melody,
but her serious efforts are prone to excite
ill-timed laughter. “Looking on the Bright
Side” gives her full scope for all. branches
of her art; in it she is a manicurist, a
singer, a comic policewoman, and a singer
again. Julian Bose as an entrepreneur gives
her good support. Bichard Dolman as her
hairdresser-composer lover is not so good.
“Looking on the Bright Side,” the theme
song, is" catchy, and so is “You Are More
Than All the World to Me,” and “I Hate
You” is tunefully unusual. The rest is
mostly noise and rush, with one of London s
new colossal flat buildings as the setting.
¥ * *
Shaw’s “Arms and the Man” can now
be seen as a talkie at Sydney Lyceum.
Director Cecil Lewis produced it for an Eng-
lish company. The exteriors were shot near
Beddgelert, in Wales; they make a pic-
turesque background to the scrap between
the Bulgars and Serbs. Barry Jones plays
the somewhat ignoble Bluntschli. His shat-
tering of his lady friend’s illusions regard-
ing the nobility of soldiering is capital tun.
Anne Grey plays the lady. Some of the
original dialogue has been. deleted, but
there are plenty of Shaw’s bright quips left.
The remaining half of the programme is
filled by “The . Sign of Four” from Conan
Doyle’s mystery yarn. Arthur V ontner is
Sherlock Holmes, and lan Hunter as Dr.
Watson does his share in thwarting the
murderous Jonathan Small.
¥ * *
Two qualifications are required for com-
plete enjoyment of “The Ghost Train” at
Sydney Mayfair. The spectator shouldn’t have
seen the stage play (when it was produced
in London six years ago the programme
specially requested patrons not to reveal the
climax) and he or she must be capable ot
deriving pleasure from the spectacle of an
elderly lady getting realistically drunk. Any-
one who answers to these plans and speci-
fications should find the thing uncommonly
interesting. The effects, and particularly the
train smash, are most convincing, and some
of the shots of Fal Vale station are beauti-
ful-little bits of the lovely English west
country imported to Australia, so to speak.
Jack Hulbert is just about perfect as the
silly ass who—but, stay, this notice is
primarily for those who don’t know why the
apparently fatuous Teddy Deakin is at fi al
Vale Cicely Courtneidge, as Miss Bourne,
gets hilariously tight in the shortest time on
record She does the old, old business well
enough, but ner effort is superfluous as
well as painful to watch. Allan Jeayes and
Donald Calthorp are impressive as the
doctor and stationmaster respectively and
Ann Todd is winsome as Peggy. In short,
the cast is flawless. The action begins on
comedy lines in a train. Jack Hulbert loses
his hat and recovers it by pulling the com-
munication cord and getting out. lhe guard,
though naturally indignant, doesn t bawl
him out in the violent U.S.A. manner. Merely
takes his name and address and warns him
that he will hear from the company.
It is a lesson to the world m official
behavior in its own small way. The scenes
in the lonely little station follow, and
highly exciting they are'. The dialogue is
amusing or dramatic as the situation
demands, .the movement is as fast as in any
Hollywood production, and the cutting is
masterly. Here, at last, we have an all-
British'film (it is a Gainsborough picture
and no American has had a hand in it)
which has nothing to learn as regards tech-
nique from any other country. . .
Would that„ the same could be said of its
subsidiary, ‘‘Hotel Splendide” ! It is awful;
a tlirow-back to the most witless type ot
British talkie of the past. The plot is
moth-eaten —the Dysart necklace is known to
be hidden in the hotel, and crooks go after
it, while a '’tec goes after them —and all
the points are over-stressed. The acting and
puotograpfiy are amateurish, and even the
sound is a failure —a rare trouble nowadays.
¥ ¥ ¥
“Kongo,” at the State, out-thrills all the
jungle thrillers of the past year. The Com-
monwealth Censor has branded it as being
unsuitable for children, and many an adult
will find it as much as his nerves, not to
mention his credulity, can stand. The loca-
tion is a Congo trading post—dense jungle,
deadly swamps, hordes of pugnacious natives
—where reigns “Deadlegs” Flint (Walter
Huston), a degraded cripple, who is attended
by a pair of servile bullies and the jungle
vamp Tula (Lupe Velez). Flint keeps the
natives, who have every reason to' hate him,
at bay with conjuring tricks he has learned
from a textbook. Beyond Flint’s trading area
lives Gregg (C. H. Gordon), who stole his wife
and deprived him of the use of his legs.
Gregg’s supposed daughter, Ann . (Virginia
Bruce), is caught up in Flint’s toils, and is
subjected to incredible cruelties. Ann, under
the strain, grows slightly mental, and de-
velops into a dipsomaniac. Then Kingsland
(Conrad Nagel), a doctor, who takes drugs,
arrives. Sight of the wretched Ann
revives his manliness, and he sets out to
nurse himself and Ann back to health. The
crippled ogre and the jungle vamp, plus the
two bullies, do their utmost to defeat his
aim, but Conrad Nagel is not the man to
taste defeat in such circumstances, and the
cause of justice and decency duly triumphs.
The acting is as good as the story is absurd.
“His Wife’s Mother” depends largely on
the excellent clowning of Jimmy Godden
and Gus McNaughton. It is capital comedy.
¥ ¥ ¥
“The Night of June 13,” at Sydney
Begent, concerns American suburbanites.
Clive Brook portrays upright John Curry,
who is married to a neurotic (Adrianne
Allen), and shares a house with a poisonous
family. Mrs. Curry gets it into her head
that he is more than neighborly with Trudie
Morrow (Lila Lee), a flapper who lives
next door. The Straw.ns (who live with
John and his wife), the Morrows and the
Blakes think the same. So when Mrs. C
blows out her brains John is accused of
murder. It is left to Trudie to pull him
out of the mess, though in so doing she
brands herself as a scarlet woman. If all
the actresses who have sacrificed themselves
in this manner in Hollywood were placed
in line they would reach several miles.
Brook is dignified, Charles Buggies tries to
pour oil on the troubled waters in his well-
known manner and Charley Grapewm lep-
resents a boozy grandfather—if you Hae
that sort of thing.
“Madison Square Garden” features Jack
Oakie as a near-champion middleweight He
reaches New York with William Collier,
his incorruptible manager, in search of con-
tests. and is booked for the Garden. Collier
is offered the job of matchmaker at the place,
which means that he must give up Oalue.
The result for the latter is disastrous. He
falls into the hands of fight-riggers and boot-
leggers headed by William Boyd, has a
succession of easy victories unaware that
his opponents have been squared and
gets a swollen head. Little Marion Nixon,
who has lost her heart to the brawny lad,
tries to put him wise, but lie is slow on
the uptake. When the time arrives for
Oakie to take the count his pseudo-friends
fill his training camp with a bevy ot
blondes and otherwise see that .he forsake
the Spartan life. They also paint his hand
bandages with' plaster .of Paris. f?.,. e
ensuing match Oakie is getting a hiding
when Collier, upset at the spectacle, resigns
his job on the spot, and dashes into the
ring to second the young ’un. Oakie loses
the fight, but is reunited to his battle-scarred
mentor. Together they clean up the crooks
in a glorious rough-and-tumble scrap. Old
stuff, but the action is brisk.
“Cauboy”: Cinema-theatre spruikers have
only a limited professional . life. lhe
oldest practitioner in Melbourne is the prose
poet at Hoyt’s Theatre De Luxe. He has been
at the game for seven and a half years, his
duration record being probably in part
to the fact that he is an original humorist
and extemporises as he• goes along.. lhe
psychological effect of this on what is ordi-
narily a' painfully monotonous job must be
considerable. The average life of a spruiker
is five years. After that his vocal chords
are worn out, and he has to look for a 30b
where the hands are more important than
the tongue. The strain of talking for five
hours in a voice loud enough to drown pass-
ing trams has painful effects. A kindly man-
agement in Melbourne has retained a
spruiker who has almost completely lost, his
voice. Curiously enough his. mysterious
whisperings attract more attention than the
bellowings of stentors.


SAVE AND PROFIT
Piling shillings one upon another may be a form of thrift, but it is a
risky method and unprofitable. There is loss of profit because the
same money, placed in a Commonwealth Savings Bank, would earn
interest. There is risk of loss by fire, by burglary, even by inadvertence,
and, not so obvious but quite definite, there is the risk of temptation
to spend.
The Savings Bank Account is the logical place for your savings, for
there they both accumulate and earn interest. Thus your saving power
is multiplied, your savings become profitable, and you are less tempted
to spend wastefully.
Open your Account now.
ffiommonwealtb SavfnssJßanfc of Hustralts
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
e
A *S° UNCING & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
:I PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan Mr n at
Head Office: P. & C. Building corner D M a na S ln g Director: H. Fell.
k “»• ,
ABORIGINALITIES
“Brassbounder” : “Wen” (B. 14/12/’32) is
running late with that tale about sheep
camping in the shade of a telegraph wire.
On my last voyage out we were well down
in the 40’s when the Old Man called me on
the bridge. Pie. pointed with a trembling
hand to a long line of mollyhawks and alba-
trosses apparently roosting serenely in the
air above our heads. The Second and Third
were called into consultation, but could
make nothing of it. The Old Man
started to send off a wireless about the
extraordinary “mirage,” as he called it,
when “Sparks” broke in. “Excuse me, sir,”
he said, “but I fancy that’s due to the beam
wireless. Those birds have located the beam
and are roosting on it.”
* • * ❖ He
Mac Thursday”: Y'orke Island has no
frogs, and so. lacks a chorus which on most
lorres Strait islands drowns the other
noises of the tropic night. Jimmy Susu.
however, would like it otherwise. “Yes,
this place he got nothing frog—no man frog’
no woman frog. All them other island he
got, and u?e like some too. We been ask
some man for bring frog so we can grow
him up; he been bring plenty, inside bamboo
—more than one hundred, I t’ink. Then he
capsize him from that bamboo, and put him
along tank and well. We t’ink he going
make plenty more breed, but them frog he
all finish die, or might he go somewhere else.
Some ’nother man try all same way, but he
no good What for we want keep that
trog.’ l Well, spose we got frog, then he can
sing out good for let us know when rain
come. But now we got nothing,! What’s
matter ? You. t’ink them frog he must have
proper kai-kai belong him. or wliat’s matter
he cant stop along this place?” But I was
unable to lift Jimmy’s mantle of gloom.
TACT.
MARY: Jacky say that feller sing in Brisbane same time we bin heanm.”
THE BOSS: “Jacky’s quite right , Mary. He’s singing now hundreds of miles away.”
MARY: “I bin tink Jacky ver-r-ry damn liar!”
“Bogaduck : A Bordertown (S.A.) cocky
had his car disabled in an unusual way
recently. He slowed down to let a neigh-
bor’s team, which had just been unyoked,
cross the road to the stable. One of the
COMPENSATIONS.
MRS. MAC NAB: “Oh, but you must feel the loss of your leg terribly, Mr. Angus!”
MR.ANGUS: “Ay! But a gran’ feelin’ comes over me when I buy a pair o’ socks.”
prads came up, had a look at the car, and
then turned and lashed out at it with both
heels, smashing in the radiator. Yes, it
was a Ford.
£ *r * *
“Malakuna”: In the avalaraleo (canoe
house) of Bopai, the Luluai of this
Melanesian village, sat three shrivelled-
skinned, worn-out kanaka women. With
them was Biriber, the village midwife and
female handyman, somewhat younger no
doubt, but no more beautiful. Ongot, young
and plump, having just arrived from the
gardens behind the village, sat
by, puffing at a newspaper-
covered cigarette. On her face
was the expression of tolerant
contempt that the female youth
in native society, unable to see
ahead to her own old age, feels
for the old women. Biriber was
hard at work, conducting a
beauty parlor. With an enamel
rice basin of water, in which
powdered lime (coral burnt on
the beach) was mixed, she
kneaded the scalps of the three
old. girls alternately. They were
a little flurried at my appear-
ance on the scene, but while I
sat by watching Biriber ex-
plained to me that this lime-
coloring of the hair and wash-
ing of the scalp was done regu-
larly after a period of hot
weather. Working in the taro-
patch, the hair of the women
became matted and knotted with
grime and sweat. After the
operation I had no difficulty in
realising that the performance
was more utilitarian than
beautifying; but the women
evidently regard it as a very
swanky mode of hairdressing. It
is usually done a few days prior
to a malagan ceremony or other
festive occasion when they will
come into public gaze as they
prepare the victuals of pig, taro
and fish. For days now these
three will go around looking self-
conscious as the lime dries and their short
scraggy locks become a mass of hard, white
strands.
“Coif”: Members of the Council have
mentioned the Malayan belief in “were-
tigers.” The inhabitants of Korinchi in
Sumatra are noted as were-tiger practi-
tioners. One of these came to Pahang
peddling brassware, and in the dusk found
he was being stalked by a tiger. Luckily for
him—as he thought—there was a tiger trap-
cage near by. Into this he slipped and
dropped the door against his pursuer. The
tiger prowled round the cage all night, and
left in disgust at dawn. Then came the
villagers who had set the trap. The tiger’s
prowl had wiped out all the man’s foot-
prints. As soon as he admitted that he
came from Korinchi they speared him in
the trap, satisfied they had got the genuine
tiger.
“O. W. Waireki”: Young Moko joined
the territorials, and was drafted to the
awkward squad. Presently the squad was
instructed to “quick march,” and then to
“right wheel.” When given the latter order,
Moko paused and produced notebook and
pencil. “What the blazes are you trying to
do? ’ roared the angry drill-instructor. Moko
quailed. “I’m trying to write tat word,” lie
replied nervously, “but I can’t sperra (spell)
‘Bert”: A mate of mine, a fitter, could
never master the knack of using a shotgun
on flying targets. Seeing the mechanism
, a Yankee gangsters’ machine-gun ex-
plained in a. trade journal, he set to work
and made himself a Thompson gun to fire
- cartridges, using a Winchester barrel
and fitting it with a drum which held 50
cartridges. When tested it rattled off the
drum of ammunition in fine style, and so
the maker went out to a wild-duck shoot
full of confidence, boasting that he would
top the score. Every time a flock -went
whirring past he opened up on them, spray-
ing them with bullets at the rate of 50 in
lo seconds. The only duck he secured was
a badly wounded one—which' was flapping
along the surface—and he so riddled it with
holes that a dog retrieved it in pieces.
% -fi ;j-
-“H.L.C.”: Lord Bledisloe, M.L.’s Gov-
('r no r - General, shows a keen interest in
Maon affairs. Uttering a lament that so
nttle Maori carving is done nowadays, he
told a gathering that this interest was re-
inforced by a royal command. The parting
words of George Rex when he handed Lord
i-dedisloe his commission were: “Do all in
your power to induce the Maori people to
take a pride in their race; to keep up their
beautiful language, and to continue to pur-
sue, so far as it is possible, their own
peculiar accomplishments.” Nothing the
King could have said -would have pleased
his Maori subjects better.
ON THE RAIL OF THE BAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you’ve finished your job in the country,
And you’re due for a bit of a rest,
You will pack up your things in a hurry,
And rig yourself out in your best.
You will purchase a brief to the city
With fifty or so on your hip;
You’ll be feeling as fit as a fiddle,
Like a sailor just off from hi.s ship;
You will drift to a snug little bar-room
And order a glass of “Three Star,”
With your elbow at rest on the counter
And your foot on the rail of the bar.
And someone will come and accost you,
And greet you as Harry or Jack,
And say that, he knew you in boyhood,
Or shore with you somewhere Outback.
And some of his mates will be with him
(There are always a couple or more),
And you’ll soon be like brothers together
t hough you may not have met them before.
But your mind will be calm and contented;
Your joy there’ll be nothing to mar,
With your elbow at rest on the counter
And your foot on the rail of the bar.
Though . you’ve hated the saltbush like
poison,
And have sworn you will never go back,
Your language will grow quite poetic
As you speak of the joys of the track.
They will listen in mute admiration
To your tales of the river and run,
Of the deeds you have done in the saddle,
Of the races you’ve ridden and won,
Of the mates you have fenced with and
shorn with,
And camped with and tramped with afar—
With your elbow at rest on the counter,
And your foot on the rail of the bar.
You will tell how you rode for the doctor,
And forded the Darling in flood,
And landed at dawn at the township,
Half-naked and covered in mud.
How you rode the worst horse on the station
Till you had him as quiet as a mouse.
Then the landlord will rap on the counter
And say there are drinks on the house,
And someone will call for a soda.
And someone will have a cigar^
And you’H say he’s a jolly good fellow
With your foot on the rail of the bar.
And your manner will grow more expansive
As the brandy’s beginning to work.
And you’ll take them away out to glory
To a station far westward of Bourke,
Where you ran down the red-coated dingo,
The terror of Willoughby’s Soak,
And rode to the Seven Creeks’ muster
On a horse that was barely half-broke,
And your jacket was ripped into ribbons
As you raced through the scrub and belar —
With your elbow at rest on the counter,
And your foot on the rail of the bar.
So the spree will go merrily onward
Till you’ve tried half the drinks on the
shelf,
And you’ve told all the lies you can think of
Till you almost believe them yourself.
Till your tongue gets a little bit tangled
And your brain isn’t feeling too clear,
And you think it’s the heat of the bar-room
That is making your stomach so queer.
So you’ll tell them to fill up their glasses.
No matter how many there are,
And feeling a trifle unsteady
You will toddle away from the bar.
When you’re ’way back again in the country.
And lying, stone-broke, in your tent,
And the curlews are calling around you,
You will mourn for the money you spent.
When the scenes of the past are receding
In a vapor of brandy and beer,
You will mentally swear to keep sober
When you visit the city next year.
But drifting away into slumber,
When the. doorway of dreams is ajar,
You will think you are back in the city
With your foot on the rail of the bar.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD HARRINGTON.


£
i^DNGHCID
A STURDY
SHIRT FOR A,
\STURDY JOB!
THREE FOR
3CF-
OFL
& ACM
IN PLAIN BLUE
BLUE WITU WHITE
STR|PE_
BLUE. WITH BLACK.
STRIPE _
OR PLAIN FAWN
BROTNE R 5 LTD.
in, Queen. St. Bfisbaive
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
n/tonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAYBESTOS
“Silver Edge ”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE-OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world. . , ,
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
“Macropus”: Touching on the kangaroos
willingness for a scrap (B. 14/12/’32), a
quaint tale comes from Britain. Whipsnade
Park, an open-air addition to London Zoo,
specialises in paddocks wherein animals from
various countries roam at ease. The society
thought it would add a family touch to the
Australian paddock, which was inhabited by
two emus. Wallabies and a small kangaroo
were introduced as company; and what the
emus did to them was a shame. The new-
comers took the k.o. and were hurriedly
removed. Then the Zqg was presented with
a real old red kangaroo. He was a tough
nut, having travelled for years with a circus,
and the Zoo heads were a bit apprehensive
about him. Their sympathy was wasted.
The emus came at him, but, grabbing the
first round the neck, he kicked it out of the
picture. Since then the emus have been affa-
bility itself towards their neighbor. Worth
noting by people who draw for the evening-
press of Sydney that both kanga.. and emu
kick forward and downwards. It is impossible
for them to kick backwards,_ though they
are invariably depicted as doing so by the
budding Raphaels of the afternoon news- 1
papers.
* * * *
“Wyara”: The scientists from Harvard
University (U.S.A.) who toured Australia
recently under Professor Morton Wheeler in
search of ancient life secured numbers of
valuable fossils. W. E. Schevill, who stayed
behind the rest for an extensive tour of
Queensland, takes home the finest prize of
all. His Kronosaurus weighs five tons and is
the largest fossil of a marine reptile known
to science. Schevill found it on Army Downs,
in the Richmond (N.Q.) district. It will
find a home in the Harvard Museum.
* * * *
“Ehoa”: When “Avon” (B. 23/11/’32)
states that the indigenous _ trees of the
Shivery Isles are lacking in variety and
difficult to cultivate, he shows _ ignorance.
There is a wide array of native plants,
and most of them are amenable to culti-
vation. Only a small minority refuse to
change their abode. Christchurch was laid
out in the centre of a naturally treeless
plain, and the pioneers who planned it knew
nothing of the Maoriland bush. The totara
and the kauri, are slow to reach giant
stature, but are not difficult to grow, and
are very handsome in their juvenile and
intermediate forms. Then there are the
rimu, re : wa-rewa, tawa and hundreds . of
others, all most beautiful and as interesting.
If “Avon” will travel to the other side of
the Southern Alps he will find rata and
kowhai in reds and gold, the bride’s blos-
som of the ribbon-wood, towering rimus and
king ferns, which for all true Maorilanders
have a fascination that the oak, the poplar
and the ash can never give.
J[C :!•- * *
“Booraby”: In the arid central regions,
where expeditions are trying to find mythical
reefs the great problem, even with experi-
enced prospectors, is to induce Binghi to
reveal the source of his water supply. The
INSTRUCTION.
“Ma, why does the boss call you a fair cow to milk when really you’re black
and brown?”
“My dear, that’s a great compliment Gentlemen prefer blondes.”
nomad is met far away from his camp,
carrying no drink with him, and showing no
signs of distress even in the hottest weather.
But the secret of tlie hidden reservoirs is
almost as sacred within the tribe as the
bora rites. Some years ago two Prospec-
tors, being hard-pressed for water, rounded
up a couple of wandering blacks, and when
cajolements and promises proved fruitless,
the pair were detained and fed on the saltest
food. That and the prevailing heat soon
induced them to change their minds and
they made a beeline for a hidden well that
took only a few minutes to reach.
* * * *
“Maeti”: The various kinds of b@che-de-
mer have habits of their own, and the
island swimmers who go out seeking tne
fish take careful note of their peculiarities.
The black fish, which, is normally about
eight inches long, towards evening elongates
itself till it is about two feet. It stands
up on its tail, swaying like a _ snake, and
the native swimmer, armed with a short
stick, gives it a knock. If a snake or an
eel happens to be struck instead of a black
fish, it darts away; the trepang stays where
it is, and the native straightway bags it.
Chalk fish, on the other hand, move along
the bottom, but at times may be seen
turning themselves over and over, from
side to side. When the native notices these
curious evolutions, he takes it as an indica-
tion of “plenty of wind coming.’
❖ ***
“Barangkali”: The Sakai, the dwarfish
aborigines of the Malay Peninsula, were,
years ago, looked upon as legitimate prey
by the Malays and thousands were killed
yearly. In order to ensure a steady increase
in population the Sakai instituted trial mar-
riage. Upon reaching the age of lo nil tne
village children sleep for one night monthly
in special houses, the girls in one and the
boys in another. The boys, having previously
selected the girls they consider capable of
doing the cooking in the future, slip mto
the girls’ hut during the night. If indica-
tions sho'w that an alliance has been fruitful,
the two are married. If no such indications
appear, the boy must seek another mate.
:|s * * *
“Coir”: I must thank “Matanzas” (B.
14/12/’32) for taking me to task for saying
that the content of the green cocoanut is an
insipid drink unless fortified. Still, as one
who has drunk many thousand green cocoa-
nuts in the course of his job in places where
they were more accessible than water, I hold
to iny opinion. His statement that the cocoa-
nut water is “said to have definite diuretic
qualities” is quite correct, but those quali-
ties are hostile rather than beneficial if the
quacks of my time in the Western Pacific
knew their "job. They may consider the
stuff a palatable beverage in Cuba, as Mat-
anzas” says. In that case, my opinion of
the South American and Antillean spiggotty
drops to a lower marking.
* * * *
“Murrungurry” : Bingliis of north-western
N.S.W. have used two mineral products of
those parts from the remotest times to the
present day. One is copi (gypsum), used
for clarifying water and for making widow
caps. Tlie other is an earthy iron oxide or
raddle, known to them as cobar, which was
in great demand for painting the bodies for
corroborees, and was extensively bartered
with neighboring tribes. It was from one
COULDN’T LAST A MILE HIMSELF.
“Livingstone must have —had won —derful wind to —get right across Afric-a."
of the abo. cobar shafts, alongside which two
white men camped for the water it contained,
that copper was discovered in N. b. Wales—
tue beginning of the great Cobar copper field.
There were many shallow shafts about tlie
ground then, some of them ages old.
* ❖ H* *
“Mako”: As an exciting and not over-
done sport I nominate grass-racing as
played on the Maori-
land beaches._ The
grass accommodatingly
grows on the adjacent
sandhills, and has a
large head like a ball
covered with long spikes.
The method is to select
a number of the largest
dry grassheads, set
them in a line on the
sand, each with his
owner in control, until
the signal to start is
given, when the re-
leased heads are left to
the wind. The grass-
heads bowl merrily
away with the owners
following, and as on the
hard and flat M.L.
beaches a good head can
race along for a mile or
more the sport is not as
childish as it sounds.
Owners out of condition
and unable to sprint a
mile have little chance
of identifying their pro-
perty at the end of the
race, and there are
players who are not
above taking a mean
advantage. I once saw
a party of parents come
down to look kindly on
the children playing this
game, but before long
they were at it them-
selves, with an amateur bookie operating
profitably.
“Deekay” : In spite of the claims of U.S.A.,
“0.1 v.” owes its origin to the small French
settlement of Aux Gayes in Hayti,_ which
set the seal of quality on several of its pro-
ducts besides rum. The secret of the popu-
larity of the rum was that several slices of
pineapple were placed in each hogshead. A
query in the 18th century as to the quality
of the “milk in the little brown jug” would
bring the reply, “I can assure you it is Aux
Gayes.”
* * * *
“T.L.G.”: The answer to “Deekay’s”
query as to “the photographic properties of
lightning” (B. 14/12/’32) is that it has
none. The tree-like markings on the bodies
of persons killed by lightning are the pattern
of the veins and arteries of the body which
were dilated and ruptured by the shock.
* * * *
“Hamer”: A freak preserved by a Sydney
man was the offspring of a fox terrier dog
and a female Angora rabbit —a cross re-
garded hitherto as an impossibility. The
freak had rabbit paws, legs and eare, but a
doglike head, tail and body. It died in a
few hours.
* * * *
“Segnalpa”: Australia possesses a repre-
sentative of the flying-lizard tribe. It is
found on Banks or Moa Island in Torres
Strait. Somewhat of the appearance of
a goanna in build and coloring, it inhabits
the treetops of patches of jungle and “flies”
after the manner of the Australian flying
squirrel—volplanes, aided by skin stretched
between the fore and hind legs. Natives are
afraid of it, as, if disturbed, it has a habit
of alighting on the naked back of brown
brother and inflicting deep scratches.
:Si # * *
“C.H.F.”: A large sea-elephant recently
took up an abode in the Ileathcote River,
Christchurch (M.L.), where it proved an
attraction for children for miles around. But
the visitor made its way through a drain
into Monica Park, and that transgressed
the Lord knows how many regulations. The
Government issued instructions that the
animal must be removed and taken to sea.
A large party of officials made their way to
Monica Park to consider ways and means of
removing the ungainly monster, but some-
one must have given the animal the chat,
for when they arrived on the scene it was
back in the river. The officer of the Marine
Department in charge of the case has taken
the view, doubtless after much study of the
Statutes, that so long as the sea-elephant”
remains in the river it is within its legal
rights and he can’t molest it. In the mean-
time the animal moves at will from river
to Monica Park, and vice versa. The instant
it is caught in the park out to sea it goes,
and it is giving the Law some anxiety.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station ),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Raths
3*
! if
S 3
P 11
y?
Melbourne's 'Most Modern Hotel.
Rates per day:
Room and meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from .... .... 12'6
>AOBIL€ G/4W7-
flO G }Jr HOULD BE
kisMEI-TJROIIiy
COMPRESSOR
The Kismet Trolley Compressor is really
two pumps in one with a patent super-
charging action.
It is a manually-operated 2-stage Compres-
sor delivering large volumes of air and
attaining high pressure with ease.
An ingenious heel-and-toe movement on
the side of the powerful chassis locks the
handle—the Compressor can then be lifted
with one hand and run about on its wheels
with ease.
For convenience, speed of inflation, mobility
and ease of operation, there is no garage
inflator to equal the Kismet “Trolley.”
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, C.l.
/member''
Aiiidiih
JIB 'UlßlCA'li 'Dir
o.
/
iiißtjyiiAVrii'Dftf#
Has a Greater
Circulation and a
Greater Number of
Home Deliveries
Queensland Daily
Than Any
Newspaper.
The
Sunday Mail
Brisbane
This great newspaper goes into the homes of
the people of Brisbane when they have leisure
to read. It is a journal of character and
distinction and presents features that appeal
to every member of every household. If you
want to fully cover the Brisbane market at
small cost, this is your paper.
Rates and other particulars from
„ _ ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
SMOKE-OH!
“Voce had four short legs.”— “Sun.”
Even so, some say his bark is worse than
bis bite.
H- *
“The confidence man, really an Australian, told
a long tale of his home in Venice.”— “Sun,”
Would this be the famous Venetian blind?
* *
“If papers refrained from making these tragedies
matter for sensational headings, Bridge suicides
would cease.”- — Minister Bruxner.
Another suggestion is to start a “Back to
Watson’s Bay” movement.
* *
O’COHEN SOCIABLE CREDIT PLAN.
As the millennium still seems to be un-
accountably delayed despite the Lang and
Premiers’ Plans, the Douglas System and
Peter Pan’s Melbourne Cup win, I have
decided to make a New Year’s gift to the
world of the O’Cohen Sociable Credit Plan,
which can be put into operation overnight
or any morning before the cricket starts.
The Sociable Credit Plan aims first to
get rid of all class bias by putting credit
on a sociable basis by the creation of a
central reserve brewery absolutely beyond
all control, political or otherwise. From
this .source will come the supplies for the
credit agencies, whose functions may be per-
formed with little alteration by existing
public houses.
These agencies will act as exchanges be-
tween consumer and producer, and vice
versa, and will see to it that trade and com-
merce are carried on in an atmosphere of
perpetual good-fellowship, a shrewd com-
bination of economies and psychology which
no one else has thought of.
Under the Sociable Credit Plan everyone
will have to be a consumer, because con-
sumer credits will be issued only by these
agencies. The more you consume the more
credit you will get; algebraically expressed
thus:—
C.I.F. —C.O.D. = 1.0.U.2
Then, having consumed as much as he
can, and got as sociable as he is able, the
applicant will be entitled to a credit certi-
ficate on the basis of the above formula;
that is, an amount equalling the difference
between what he has been able to tick up
and what he would have to pay cash for
under the present unwieldy system.
- The rest is simple. With his credit certi-
ficate the consumer presents any piece of
paper mentioning an amount equal to the
certificate, and purchases what he requires.
As everyone wants to be sociable, and
also wants credit, now is the time
MISTRESS (engaging girl) : “And I don’t like
the sort of maid who goes round talking
outside about everything that is done
in the house.”
GLADYS MAUD: “You needn’t worry about
me, ma’am. If anything goes on, I
know how to keep me face shut.”
to put the O’Cohen Plan into operation.
Let our campaign be short, sharp and deci-
sive ! Apostles, disciples and apologists
wanted. Buy our badge at once (price 25.,
no stamps) !
Angus O’Cohen.
"Tlie only way to score off bowlers of the Lar-
wood type is to hit them.” —Arthur Mailey.
We thought of that way, too.
*
“Even the Bridge is not immortal.” — “5.M.11.”
Like everything else, it has its allotted
span.
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.
High revel was toward at “Eepoohw
Llah.” The wassail bowl was circulating
freely, and had been since a joyous din of
jangling cowbells, exploding hungers and
tooting motor-horns
had informed such
of the neighbors as
were not already
aware of it that the
New Year was in.
Father reposed on a
sofa drinking neat
wassail from a
bottle. Mother, her
wassail parked tem-
porarily on the
piano, was jazzing
unsteadily with the
new boy-friend. The
children were smash-
ing one another’s
toys and the t.-p.
furniture right mer-
rily ; also fighting
and otherwise enjoy-
ing themselves. The
guests were arguing
woozily about the
“Sun” surf - queen
competition, the here-
after .and Bradman.
And in the kitchen
a sumptuous meal
was being prepared.
But whose is that
famished face
pressed despairingly
against the dining-
room window? A
■skeleton at the feast
might be in order in
ancient Rome, but
who ever heard of a
skeleton before the
feast in Bondi? And
now Father spots
and recognises the
intruder, and, with-
drawing the wassail-
bottle from his lips,
bursts into a flood of profanity. Mother,
ever gentle, sober or otherwise, raises a
deprecatory hand.
“Poor follow !” and she gazes compassion-
ately at the outcast. “He looks hungry.”
“Wodo/it?” hiccups Father truculently.
“ S h e r v e i m rig h t!”
“Shame on you, Father! Isn’t thigh
(pardon!) this the sheason of goodwill?”
“Shame—hie; —shame !” chorus the guests.
“Ask him in.” The suggestion comes
from Tiny Tim, a child who can usually be
relied on to speak out of his turn.
“Yesh ! Yesh ! ’Ooray!” cry the guests.
Suddenly the light of a great resolve
flames from Father’s face. Reeling to the
front door he flings it open with a hearty
“Como insh, blastycr!” and in a trice the
destitute one is in their midst. Willing
hands ply him with wassail, and, as the
steaming turkey is borne in, a place is
found for him at the table.
“Yer ealth!” cries Father, elevating a glass
of champagne, and bursts into tears.
“ ’Ealth!” sobs Mother, an arm round
the derelict’s neck.
“ ’Ealth —hie —’ealth !” from the guests.
And so, after all. the owner of “Eepoohw
Llah” enjoyed a New Year’s dinner —his
first since the passing of the Landlord and
Tenant Act.
„ J. D.
“The game is held up. Jardine seems to have
something in his eye.”— Wireless announcer.
Could it have been the ashes?
* *
Rumored that the U.S.A. is considering
the adoption of a new flag embracing the
sun and moon, as well as the stars and
stripes.
* *
“Sixty thousand Frenchmen paraded Paris shout-
ing ‘Not a cent, for America.’ ”
Well, sixty thousand Frenchmen can’t be
wronged.
* *
“In the recent! rains the Yarra burst its banks.”
Is Langism going to remain with us for
ever ?
* H-
Jardine says it’s impossible to play Voce
on an Australian pitch without being reviled.
“In one period Sutcliffe scored only 10 huns in
40 minutes.”- — “Herald.”
It would have been quite a respectable tally
during the war.
* *
THE TYPE RIOT OF OMAR KYBOBH.
“Gentleman would like to meet lady, business
ability, able use typewriter, view above.”
—Melbourne matrimonial advt.
Ah! Love, could, thou and. I vjith Fate
conspire
To mingle typing with our Passion’s Fire,
Would not we make a match of it—and then
Type and canoodle to our Hearts’ Desire!
N. C.
* *
TO BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY.
Messrs. Shatter and Upthewindus have
pleasure in announcing their new list of
books for the season. It will be scon that
a wide range of questions is discussed and
“Haven’t sold a damn thing. You'll Have to spend less, that’s all
—for a start, you’ll have to dress according to our
means.”
“But, Billy, a girl can’t always be in her bath!”
that each contributor is well qualified to
write on his particular subject:—
Etiquette.
“How to Wear a Bowler Out on the
Cricket Field” (H. Sutcliffe).
“How to Carry Your Drinks Like a
Gentleman” (“Twelfth Man”).
“How to Keep in the Creases when Bat-
ting” (D. Jardine).
Nature Works.
“Storks and Their Habits” (W. M
Tate).
“Are Flies Fond of Skating?” (P F.
Warner).
“Life in the Stratosphere” (L. Nagel).
Financial.
“A Scheme for Making Hundreds” (S.
McCabe).
“The Express Delivery Business” (Lar-
wood) .
Music.
“The Appeal of the Fortissimo” (G. Duck-
worth).
“Scoring with Two Rests in Each Bar”
( The Unknown Cricketer”).
“All at Sea with a Ukulele” (F. R.
Brown).
Sport.
“How We Beat the Favorite” (Larwood
and Voce).
“Cricket from an Armchair” (“Twelfth
Man”).
Eefigee.
* *
Portraits of politicians should be hung in a
special section of a national art gallery.”
A kind of rogues’ gallery, so to speak.
V ¥
“Braun is the third hangman in Warsaw to be
sacked for drunkenness. All claimed that they were
unable to carry on their work without drink.”
Melbourne “Herald.”
A hangman, naturally, works better if
allowed an occasional drop.
¥ *
“Australians are not so air-minded a$ they were,
and as they should be, considering their environ-
ment.”
On the other hand they’re a good deal
more tin ’are-minded.
Some of these English bowlers seem more
intent on bowling our batsmen over than on
bowling them overs.
There’s .talk .of suspending Jardine for
using a battery.
“Leg-theory bowling means putting the clock
back.”
It certainly put us back a couple of cen-
turies in the first Test.
LEG THEORY.
Woodfull took first strike—just behind the
ear—to Larwood. The second ball was a
head-break and Woodfull fell into the trap—
also into the wicket-keeper’s arms. Ponsford
was deceived by Voce’s mystery ball —a jaw-
break with a shoulder-break action —and ad-
journed to -the casualty-room. Bradman’s
head-work was good; but. after a couple to
the nose he was out ribs-before-wicket to
one that kept remarkably low. Then the
rot set in. Three batsmen went out —right
out —to Larwood in his next over; and Aus-
tralia’s position looked hopeless—five hos-
pital cases for 28, 10 of them head-byes.
McCabe meanwhile was going along steadily,
making nice shots from the point of the
chin, and timing his ear-strokes well. But
a beautiful one from Allen made him spit his
teeth out —the modern equivalent of gnash-
ing the teeth. Oldfield defended surprisingly
well with his left eye till a full toss got him
in the right eye and he retired 8.E.11. (i.e.,
both eyes hurt).
Defeat looked certain. But Nagel, who is
Oft. 6in., strode to the wickets and smote the
bowling all over the ground. By jumping in
the air. lie was even able to reach Voce’s
tiers. He completely nonplussed the bowlers :
for what should have been nose-breaks and
neck-breaks were only foot-breaks to him.
By a magnificent display of all-round leg-
work, Nagel reached his century.
It was Australia’s turn to field; but, as
10 of the original 11 were in hospital, sub-
stitutes had to be called. The rules, however,
state that a bowler must not bowl two overs
in succession, and that a substitute may not
bowl, so the match was declared off.
They’re still arguing about it in the
members’ stand.
Ced.
*¥* •¥*
TEST-SEASON DRAWBACKS.
Player-writers’ effusions.
Jokes about stumps and dentists)
Ditto about balls and bawls.
Cartoons of the kangaroo wearing cricket-
ing pads.
Jokes about bowlers getting bail.
Ditto about batsmen being “stumped for
an answer.”
The 999,999 people who say there’s “no
rest for the wicket.”
T. B.
DEVIL: “ There’s a bloke out here says he’s
goin’ to horsewhip you!”
EDITOR: “What’s he look like?”
DEVIL: “Looks like he could!”
“Club for Music Lovers.”-— “Sun” heading.
If anyone is thinking of a club for saxo-
phone lovers, we would suggest ironbark.
AN-DISSIPATION.
Let me drink to the year ’33!
Rejoice! For it brings in its wake
The delirious pleasure for me
Of new resolutions to break!
N.
VICIOUS CIRCLES.
In Jan. we aim to shun the wet
Of idleness, reform our ways,
And live a life deserving praise;
But very shortly it is Feb.,
And we have still to face the March
To Ap. the quality of starch.
Still we May start, we say, quite soon
On our reforms —perhaps in June.
That date is July passed. Anew
Our August plottings toe review.
Sep. comes; our aim is often Oct.;
Once more in Nov. our hopes are blocked.
Oec. is a feast; and so we plan
To really start reform in Jan.
In Jan. we—stand just where we stood,
Resolving in the same old way
Resolves that always go astray
And never do us any good.
H. M.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page is devoted to reproductions of the gems in picture, story
and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last century, so that
pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and a new
generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
The through express (which runs ten
miles an hour when plenty of firewood can
be picked up along the line to keep the fire
going) pulled up suddenly and heads went
out of the windows just as quickly. The
guard walked along to the engine, and a
pale young man in our carriage said he
thought the pooh-hoo valve had become com-
plicated with the last coupling. Then the
guard came along and explained matters to
the livestock contents of each carriage. It
appears the engine had run short of water,
and so could not get up steam; as there
was no water within 30 miles, he hoped the
passengers would be good enough to produce
all their drinkables. Otherwise they would
have to “get out and push.” They responded
liberally, and 83 bottles of ale’ and porter, I\
bottles of whisky, 17 bottles of other intoxi-
cants and half a bottle of water (contri-
buted by a clergyman) were poured without
a groan into the tank of the thirsty engine.
After 45 minutes’ delay the express started
again and went quickly but unsteadily until
Diedwithfever Junction was reached. Here
the local constable, who was on the plat-
form, viewed the engine very suspiciously as
she staggered into the station, and, after
.smelling her all round for some minutes,
decided that she was unfit to be at large,
and ran her in for being drunk and dis-
orderly. This caused another delay of two
hours, when an Afghan and two camels
were engaged to take the train along until
we got another engine. Things went very
well until we came to the hill where the
gold wasn’t found (rather vague when we’re
talking about W.A.), and as there were no
brakes on the carriages, away we went about
103 miles per hour, killing the Afghan and
the camels in the first 30 yards ; we went
down the hill and up the opposite hill, back-
wards and forwards, until there was a dead
stop in the gully. Then the passengers all
got out and walked to the terminus, eight
miles off, arriving to time (3.40 p.m. by the
timetable), but 24 hours late, everyone
cursing because of the lost grog. [3l/7/’97.]
The latest thing in the way of pneumatic
guns is now being constructed at Birming-
ham. and is expected to carry a 6001 b. load
of dynamite three miles. This is regarded
as rather a surprising implement at pres-
ent, but in ten years it whl be quite a
common article, and in en JB ® some-
out of date > and in a centui y oi so some
body will construct a gun that looks like
tunnel through ai mountain range, and
a u- u , mi iVT caa r ,? enme awful
Which Will heave 600 tOUS Ot Some aWIIU
explosive into the middle of the next empire.
Then some day this gruesome, article will go
off mi the French side of the Channel, and
/ g^ a J t f c mass w i]l come down with a
Hades of a crash right on top of London,
qtrniohtwav there will be an immense
an d suraigniway uieie win ue
hole where London used Jo .
J ain h ricks and torn dogs-i. . nilf l’s Fiid
f aoin Northumberland to t blown
I lien all Kent and Sui ey 1 ,
away, and the Thames w 1
£?* ® be
no place to it, except a great salt
swamp full of dobns. And addition
these other troubles, the English Channe
will be filled up with trees and luins, and
the German Ocean will be hacked through
Essex being knocked right into the md
of it so that a seapbrt won t be wanted
oj l the old site of London a y
Futhermore, under the operation of the
great Freetrade system, London is fast
absorbing all the rural population of Eng-
land, and after another century of Freetrade
the inhabitants of England will all be in
London; consequently when that city goes
it will wipe out England, and then all
Europe will have to turn out and pick up
the bricks out of the Channel, else it will
silt up for ever, and there will be one great
dismal morass extending from France to the
middle of England. And when the disaster
is over the British monarch of the future
will return in haste from Germany, where
he will most likely be paying a visit at the
time, only to discover that his palace is
gone, and his income has been blown up, and
his subjects have been jerked into the sea.
[2O/6/’9l.]
THE LARRIKIN HOP.
(In a drillroom.)
FIRST COMMITTEEMAN: “Say, Bill, I’m
blanky sorry we held our hop in this
blanky old gunshed.”
SECOND DITTO: “So am I—you can’t put on
a blanky bit of style in this here
bloomin’ place.”
[Tom Durkin —15/7/’93.]
The most inveterate practical joker in
Vic. Assembly is Alfred Deakin, among the
triumphs of whose life is reckoned his
elaborate hoaxing of J. L. Dow, of Melbourne
“Age.” When Dow and Deakin landed in
’Frisco, about eight years ago, the fact
was chronicled in the ’Murkan dailies, with
the result that a constant stream of per-
oxided damsels called to interview the Aus-
tralian politicians. One portly dame, hand-
ing in a card bearing the name “Mrs. Muriel
Donley,” unfolded to Dow a scheme by
which she intended exporting Yankee girls
to Australia, trusting in the novelty of
nationality for a special attraction. The
POST-MORTEM ITEM.
(Scene —Backblocks hospital.)
VISITOR: “You’re a long time bad, Jim.”
PATIENT : “Yes, I am, Bill I don’t think this yer doctors
much chop.”
VISITOR: “’E is, though. My word! ’E’s a tradesman, Jim, take
it from me, old man, ’e’s a tradesman.”
PATIENT: “ ’Ow d’ye know, Bill?”
VISITOR: “My misus died up here Summat wrong with er
innards The doctor ’e ’eld a post mortar on ’er, an’ I was
lookin’ in through the winder. Look yer, the way ’e cut
up that old woman was somethin’ beautiful. Oh, ’e’s a
tradesman right enough!”
[Frank P. Mahony —26/8/’92.]
man of potatoes seriously informed Mrs.
Donley that the Victorian Government would
probably grant her a bonus as the pioneer of
a new industry, and there the incident
ended. But the wily Deakin, who had been
taking in the whole thing with a twinkling
eye, secured the pasteboard for future use,
and three years later, when both were sit-
ting once more in Vic. Parliament, a mes-
senger entered and gravely handed the card
to Dow. For a moment the politician re-
garded it with a puzzled air; then light
broke upon him and he cleared out per back
door in the middle of an important division.
Every other night for a fortnight, one of
the officials would tiptoe up to Dow and
tell him that a stout lady was waiting to see
him on urgent business, and the member
would melt silently away with the utmost
regularity. At last, during an afternoon
sitting, came a telephone message, ostensibly
from David Syme, stating
that a lady from abroad
had called at the “Age”
office to see Mr. Dow, and
that, not succeeding, she
had installed herself in the
proprietor’s private office,
absolutely refusing to leave
until her much-desired
interview eventuated. “Pray
return at once,” concluded
the message, “and release
me from this embarrassing
poseetion.” With a cold
perspiration on his brow,
Dow took first tram to the
“Age” Office, and tremb-
lingly made his way to
the sanctum of King Daw-
vid. “Ah doan’t know what
yeer talking aboot, Mr.
Dow,” blandly remarked
that deity; “it seems as if
somebody hahs been hoax-
ing you.” [3/7/’97.]'
Some stories about Aus-
tralia’s great botanist, the
late Baron Von Mueller:
The simple-minded Baron
was an enemy of disorder,
and would often pick up
scraps of paper, no matter
how small, whenever he
found them lying about his
garden or elsewhere. Some-
times lie would call his
servants and with many
a gesture say to them:
“Behold how I, the great
Baron, have to pick up the
scraps of paper which you
ought to have picked up!”
The Baron was much both-
ered by beggars, who would
sometimes not be satisfied with the sixpenny-
bit offered them by the scientist’s attendant.
Then the Baron himself would come out, and
in a long lecture tell the applicant for relief
his domestic troubles —how much he owed
on his house, how much his house needed
repairs, how long a time it was since he had
bought a new hat for himself, etc. Then he
would soundly abuse the applicant, and,
after having thus eased his heart, would
give the poor fellow half a crown. One morn-
ing about 3 a.m., the Baron was awakened
by a man who had jumped the garden fence,
and who knocked very loudly at the front-
door. The Baron got up, and at length
succeeded in awakening his attendant. The
latter, armed with an iron bar, opened the
door, and was confronted by an intoxicated
person who demanded money. The attendant
closed with him. while the Baron stood
wringing his hands and wanting to give the
man who had disturbed his repose half a
crown to go away. The Baron was very
talkative. Sometimes he would call in
his attendant, and to him he would ease
his mind by running down certain persons!
Occasionally he would hear a noise in the
kitchen, and would ask whether there were
any visitors. ' “Oh yes,” the attendant would
say, “there is a friend of mine.” “But he
doesn’t understand German, does he?” “Yes,
I believe he does.”. “Oh, well, it doesn’t
matter, for, after all, I have said nothing
against the man, have I?” Mr. Guilfoyle,
who succeeded him as curator of Melbourne
Botanic Gardens, was an especial enemy of
the Baron’s. One day the Baron got on a
tram, and, as was his custom, he turned to
the man sitting next to him and began
abusing Guilfoyle in
unmeasured terms.
The person said no-
thing, and a few
minutes later the
Baron found out that
he had been black-
guarding Guilfoyle
to Guilfovle’s own
face. [5/6/’97.J
A light and cheer-
ful American lie is
just now going round
the press concerning
a gentleman who
cleaned out all the
portable goods, jewel-
lery and liquors of a
certain M'exican
town by means of
hvnnotism. He wan-
dered through the
streets and fixed his
evil eye on every
citizen who, seemed
to have assets, and
about an hour after-
wards the inhabi-
tants began to call
in and give him their
watches, clothes, fur-
niture, and bric-a-
brac generally. Un-
fortunately, ten
excited gentlemen
visited him with a
rope and asked for an
explanation, and in-
stead of freezing them
up with his baleful
optic and taking all
their attire off them,
lie abandoned his
plunder and fled
from the scene. _ The
average hypnotic lie
always seems to come
to a lame and impotent ending like this. If
hypnotism were the power it is cracked up to
be, the professor of the art would go round
and petrify banks with his mysterious power,
and get 40 separate overdrafts; or he would
stun hotels with his unholy device, and get
free board and lodging and gratis liquor, or
floor wealthy capitalists and make them hand
over the accumulated loot. But in real lire,
instead of this, he hires some seedy person
to eat candles and rush after imaginary
rats on the stage, while he collars the scanty
gate-money; and this feebleness of purpose
gives him away. Once, however, there came
to Sydney a hypnotist who aimed at higher
things than these, and he broke down miser-
ably. He got a well-known George-street
hatter to go under the “influence” at a
public exhibition, and put him through the
customary performance. Next day a
HIS BROTHER GEORGE.
HE (for the sake of conversation): “You’d like my
brother George. He’s as different from me as
possible
S HE (to keep her end up): “Oh! Then I’m sure I’d
dote upon your brother George.”
[“Hop”— 7/10/’92.]
wealthy patron wanted a private exhi-
bition. His terms were acceptable, and
the magician took him along to the
hatter’s shop, and, standing outside, com-
manded the “subject” to rush out. Hav-
ing once come under the will of the operator
he ought to have been seized on the instant
with a hidden prompting of some sort, and
to have issued forth, dragged by invisible
hands ; but he didn’t issue worth a cent. The
hypnotist sawed the air and made passes,
but no one came. He kept it up for about
half an hour, and it began to rain, and still
there were no results. Finally they got
so wet that they couldn’t stand it any longer,
so they went into the shop and inquired for
the patient; and then it transpired that he
had left, for Melbourne that morning. The
story breaks off short just there, for no
one knows whether the hatter would have
rushed out or not, supposing he had been
present. Most likely he wouldn’t.
[2O/6/’9l.]
WHEN MOTHER CALLS TO DINNER,
We’re on a farm not far from town—
• There’s just a dozen acres;
Our neighbors range from atheists
And infidels to Quakers;
We’ve got the good old pious sort
’Lougside the hardened sinner—
But that won’t spoil our appetite
When Mother calls to dinner.
When years ago we started first
And did the pioneering—
The fencing and the breaking-up,
The .stumping and the clearing—-
If stuck at some old ironbark
Which looked a likely winner,
We always got our courage up
When Mother called to dinner.
We’ve had some floods, when weeks of rain
Have given us a notion
We’d w T ake some day and find the place
Adrift towards the ocean;
And then such droughts and failing crops
As daunt the green beginner!
But still we fought and struggled on,
And Mother called to dinner.
So though the droughts may scourge the
land,
Or floods roar like a river,
We’ll hope that better times’ll come—
The bad can’t last for ever!
COUNSEL’S OPINION AT BOURKE (N.S.W.).
BOURKE J.P. (reading from Bulletin “Plain English,” February 12) : Honesty
and Lindley Murray don’t always go together.’ Ha! The Bulletin has always
sailed a trifle too close to the wind, and I’ll be shot if there’s not a clean case
of criminal libel here, for they as good as write down this here Lindley
Murray (does anyone know where he’s member for?) a gory rogue. Whoever
he is; if I was in his place I’d go for ’em.” [Phil May 12/3/87.]
And though the worry and the care
Are making Dad grow thinner,
There’s always hope of winning yet
While Mother calls to dinner.
[lO/7/’97.]
ULODLA.


m
M
mm
m
m
«
orTnfJi
mm.
■
m
ws?'
iwm
Vsr
Needs proper
equipment if
you are to get
the utmost
from it.
Valve Seat Reamer
u
The valve seat cutter is made on the reamer
principle, and is guaranteed to work with absolute
accuracy and smoothness.
The pilot stems are ground to size on micrometer
precision grinders, ensuring perfect dimensions and
accuracy.
Set, as illustrated, including liins., lfins., and
2ins. Valve Seat Cutters, 45 deg. angle, with 5-16in.
and §in. stems. Price, 35/6 set.
Single Cutters
li H It li If If
45 deg 10/3 10/3 10/3 10/3 11/3 11/3
30 & 60 deg. — — — 12/9 14/- 15/-
45 deg 13/- 14/9 17/- 19/6 22/- 23/-
30 & 60 deg. — 16/6 — 21/9 — —
Special Ford Tractor V.S.
Cutters
It to 2 inches x 45 deg. Price, 13/9, without stems.
It to 2 inches x 30 deg. Price, 15/6, without stems.
McCormick-Deering V.S.
Cutters
McCormick-Deering, 2t inches x 45 deg.
Price, 17/- each.
No. 300 K-D Valve Spring
Lifter
Furnished complete with 6 jaws; will service
many “L” Head Motors. A CHART showing proper
jaw combinations printed on, carton. Made entirely
of pressed steel. Hardened steel automatic lock.
Rust-proofed by Udylite Process—a clean, silver-like
finish
No. 300 Lifter, complete with 6 jaws, 12/3.
Cotter or Split Pins for Motors
XnXi
3/_"
s\\v\ \\
\ VOUfc \ VOXC*
Put up in assortments of different sizes, suitable for
motor car work.
Price 2/6 box.
FOR AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS.
Put up in strong cardboard boxes of four dozen
each. Comprising six different sizes, suitable for
agricultural implements and machinery.
Price, 2/3 box.
Seize this
opportunity
è
At Last! A Double-Sided Rim
Tool!
Will Fit All Car and Truck Rims.
The Double Screw Action, plus the Double-
sided Grip, is the secret of its tremendous strength
and efficiency.
Its central, steady, smooth and continuous action
enables the user to contract the rim as much, or as
little, as desired.
Dela enable
Tommy Bar.
N? 2
TO CONTRACT <?
EXPAND P/Af.
The “M.1.A.”
Rim Tool
consists of a
strong barrel
made of
Wrought
Iron. The
bolts screw-
ing into the
ends of such
barrel are
made of mild
steel fin. in
diameter,
the threads
of which are
of the right
and left-hand pattern.
There are also many other purposes to which
the tool can be put, especially where “pull” and
“pressure,” with power ana steadiness combined,
are needed. Price, 26/3 each.
THE “ZENITH”
ROTARY
CLEANING
BRUSH
Car
Cleaning
Now a
Pleasure
m ■■
2616
Each.
1000 Revolutions a Minute
The outer brush concentrates the water in one
area. The inner brush rotates (with water pressure
of 301 b. or more), at a speed of 1000 revolutions per
minute. At such speed all dirt disappears, yet leaves
the brush perfectly clean 1
Keystone Bag Kits, No. 101
at:
m
A
A
flll'illllllllHlllutii rtmwMPummiunHnnbmvmmmmumMmWm
Made of case-hardened, heat-treated steel. Five
socket sizes— i, 9-16, f, 11-16, $ inches. Handle, £in.
hexagon steel, 7ins. long, attaches to socket with
spring and ball snap. Price, 5/- set
FREE.
Our large, new Catalogue shows
hundreds of lines of interest to
Motorists, Farmers and Tool Users generally. Also
included is a mass of carefully-selected handy infor-
mation that renders the catalogue a valuable book
of reference.
Send the coupon NOW for a copy.
NAME ...
ADDRESS
A New Wheel Puller!
m
rC
i hC
n .
s w
c\ 1 QkaC
A
-‘j
To remove a wheel
with the Simmons
Wheel Puller, simply
take off the hub cap,
remove nut and
washer, screw on the
wheel puller, and
strike the plunger a
sharp blow with a
heavy hammer. The
wheel comes off easily,
with no damage to
the wheel or the axle.
The plunger takes
all the strain off the
threads ■—- prevents
thread breakage. An-
other feature of the
Simmons Wheel
Puller is a cutting
edge for rethreading
worn or burred
threads on the axle.
A complete set consists of one wheel puller body
and 4 nuts for axle shafts, with fin. —18; fin. —16;
fin —14; lin.—14 threads.
Price, 11/6. Postage Extra.
A complete set is a necessity in every repair
shop. It will service all American cars.
“MOTOMAC”
ELECTRIC VULCANISER
Renders the old patching method obsolete. In
seven minutes, using less than two-thirds of one
ampere-hour from the battery, “Motomac” gives
jmur a perfect repair.
CLEAN—SURE—SAFE—SIMPLE.
Can be used on electrically equipped motor cycles.
Repaired part of tube cannot be affected by
heat or damp, as there is no patch to lift off.
“Motomac” actually renders the new rubber part of
the old tube
Full directions with each outfit.
Price, 10/- complete
TO
BATTERY
otom/
lectric
ULCANISE
'CP'
m
DEMON
The New
Self-Generating
Kerosene-Gas
Cooker.
The “DEMON” makes its
own gas from kerosene, using
only one part of oil to 500
parts of air. So economical is
this system that a filling of
_ _ only 1\ pints of kerosene 'nail
last seven hours. The gas formed burns with an
intense clear blue flame, absolutely odorless and
smokeless. Cooking utensils remain quite bright
no dirt or soot whatever.
No pumping, no pressure, no priming th'e burner;
just light a match and the “Demon” does the rest.
Completely safe—perfectly simple.
Being portable, it is ideal for Picnics, Week-end
Homes, Motorists, Flats, etc., lOins. high, heavily
nickelled brass container; strongly but lightly made.
Price, 21/-. Packed weight, 71b.
(H£Pfiersafi§)
K Proprietary Limited
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney.
116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
532 Murray Street, Perth.


X
mui
1^:
>!■
&5>
*‘- •-
é
ELECTRIC
FROM
LIGHT and POWER
THE WIMP
USE the wind! It’s the greatest and cheapest power
known. Instal Wlnlite and have the most modern
light and power —ELECTRICITY —FREE from the wind.
Winlite is guaranteed in every way, constructed to give
long, efficient service without attention and free
of cost. Write for Catalogue W.B.
Write for particulars of the famous Webbs Oil-Gear
Windmills (Catalogue M. 8.) ; also “Reel Rain* Self-
propelling Irrigating Sprinklers (Catalogue R. 8.) ; and
“Konkrete” Paint, the Paint for. every purpose (Cata-
logue K. 8.).
WEBB BROS
m
286*290 CITY ROAD,
SOUTH MELBOURNE
and sole manufacturers
Phones - M 3221 - M 3212.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
AVAILABILITY OF LIME.
“S. Quire”: From time immemorial it lias
been the practice of farmers in the Old
World to apply chalk or marl to arable land
to improve the soil, the yield and the qual-
ity of the crop. Chalk is powdered calcium
carbonate. Marl is chalk intermixed with
clay, the latter being in varying amount;
a strong marl contains more chalk than a
weak marl. The system is haphazard, in
that no calculation, intricate or otherwise,
is made as to the amount of the stuff neces-
sary to apply per acre. Indeed, the prac-
tice has been to cart out the so-called lime
and dump it here and there in the paddock,
roughly spreading by means of a shovel
and hard toil.
For the purpose of this contribution lime
means calcium carbonate in any lorm. The
amount absorbed by soils varies extensively
with the soil. Until this absorption or lime
hunger is satisfied, the full benefit is not
derived from the dressing. It is as well
then, within the limits of one’s purse, to
make the dressing as heavy as possible.
Small dressings are definitely uneconomical.
The fineness of the lime product used is
of importance, the' main advantage being
the greater amount of lime dissolved and
the more even spread and intimate contact.
A coarse particle of lime will dissolve
slowly, until the stage is reached when the
coarse particle has become a fine grain which
will dissolve quickly. From this it will be
observed that the finer the particle the
quicker the action. Just so', but the finer
the particle the greater the chance of loss
through being washed out of the soil. The
coarser and heavier particles have a more
permanent lodgement, are capable of being
.spread in any class of weather, improve the
texture of most soils in acting as sand, and
give the lasting effect of a little soluble lime
after every rain until, of course, the par-
ticles are dissolved sufficiently to make them
take the size of small grains—a matter of
many years.
Solubility is not everything. Other im-
portant factors are the action of the lime
acting as a host or food for bacteria, and
the action of plant roots—seizing the par-
ticles and, per medium of acid secretions,
rendering the lime soluble. It has been
found that lime which has been put through
a 30 sieve (30 holes to the linear inch) is
only one-third as soluble as lime which has
been put through a 200 screen. This only
applies in the beginning, however, and is
due to the greater area exposed to the sol-
vent action.
My opinion, based on experience, is that
it is a better plan to apply a ton of coarse
lime than to play with ewtss of the finer
(and probably more expensive) product.
SCIENTIFIC STOCKBREEDING.
Viscount Lymington, who has given a
lifetime to the study of British agriculture,
says there are three possible lines of advance
in farming; and in a book which he has
lately published (“Horn, Hoof and Corn”)
he says breeding is the most important. His
complaint is that “up to now it has de-
pended on arbitrary and constantly changing
show points, or else upon the best records
being blazoned abroad and the failures kept
dark.” He was trying to find out why
Danish and Swedish bacon was always,
cheaper than British, and in the course of his
inquiries came on the remarkable fact that
the average number of pigs produced per
sow in England is between 11 and 12 a year,
while in the other countries it is between
15 and 16; and he believes the reason _is
that our competitors keep records which
paint the whole picture instead of only the
high lights. As for cattle, “it is significant
that a writer in the Middle Ages speaks of
dairy cattle producing approximately the
same yield as the Ministry of Agriculture
now estimates the average yield to be.”
Lord Lymington evidently regards the Mt.
Hope Genetic Research Station, in Massa-
chusetts, U.S.A., as doing more valuable work
than any similar institution; and its con-
clusions he sums up in these words: “The
estimate of the sire’s or dam’s capabilities
to raise quality and productivity in their
offspring should be based, not on the indi-
vidual records, but on a comparison between
the sire’s record and the dam’s record and
the record of the whole of the sire’s ‘get.’ ”
So far as cattle are concerned the station
has worked out a formula. If the average
milk production of the mature daughters of
the bull above that of their dams is increased,
then three-sevenths of that increase should
be added to the daughter’s average to get the
bull’s index for milk production. On tlie
other hand, if the daughter’s average is less
than the dam’s, then seven-thirds of tne
difference should he subtracted from the
daughter’s average to get the bull’s index
for milk. . , . .
The index figure for butter-fat, m which
the bull’s characteristic is less dominant, is
arrived at by computing the daughter’s aver-
age butter-fat against the dam’s. If the
daughter’s exceeds the dam’s, add three-
seconds of the difference to the daughter’s
average to get the bull’s index; or subtract
two-thirds of the difference from the daugh-
ter’s average to get the bull’s index should
he lower the daughter’s average as against
the dam’s.
It is admitted, however, that as these
records have been taken largely from the
Guernsey breed, it may be necessary in tune
to change them more or less for other breeds.
A FLY-PROOF RAM.
“FY7”: Some time ago The Bulletin
made a brief reference to the claim by Mrs.
Anhaeusser, of C'unnamulla (Q.)» that she
had established a breed of sheep immune to
flyblow. Many paid scant attention, but
tlie State Animal Health Station in Bris-
bane thought the matter worth investigating.
Mrs. Anhaeusser presented the station with
one of the first generation of fly-proof rams
bred by her. He is 11 years old, fairly free
from wrinkles, and carries a fine open fleece.
After two months of experimenting, the
director of the station announces that the
ram has resisted all attempts to infect him
with the pest. The animal was housed in a
concrete-floored pen, so that no trace of the
blowfly’s attack should be lost by dropping
off in paddock grass or soil. Since the coming
of the hot weather the ram has been shorn,
but those parts usually attacked by the fly
have been left untouched. Ewes put in the
pen were struck, but not the ram. Blowfly
larvae deliberately placed on him dropped off
in short order. The ram is to undergo one
more test, and a severe one. He is to be in-
fected with water-rot, which offers particular
attraction for the fly. If he comes through
that test successfully the beginning of a
solution of one of the most serious problems
facing the Australian pastoral industry will
be arrived at, for Mrs. Anhaeusser has bred
several generations of these sheep, _ and, as
far as is known, they have retained the
fly-resistant characteristics of the earlier
sliecp.
How the fly-proof sheep has been evolved
has not been made public. But every sheep-
man knows that in all flocks there is a
small proportion of sheep which are never
troubled by the fly. tCareful selection and
breeding from this type would seem to be
the obvious policy.
THE TIME FOR SHEARING.
“Moree”: “Mulgo” (B. 30/11/’32) con-
demns early shearing. For many years I
have been shearing in July, and so far have
landed my sheep through safe. On one occa-
sion I started shearing on August 20, and
I had a devil of a time. A wave of blow-
flies came, many sheep were badly blown on
the shoulders, and several times I had to
knock off and get the shearers to attend to
blown sheep. That caused bother, as they
were timed for another shed. Every man
knows or should know his own district and
what he can reasonably do without too much
risk. If he has decent feed to put his sheep
on off shears, and a reasonably-sheltered
paddock, cold or wet weather will give them
very little trouble —certainly not as much as
if the warmer weather is waited for and flies
get to them.
“Jumbuck”: I suppose “Mulgo” would
consider mid-December rather late for shear-
ing. Yet I remember a cold snap coming
along in Victoria at that time of the year
when sheds were busy. Pelts hanging on
fences practically from Geelong to the S.
Aus. border showed what toll the unseason-
able weather had taken of shorn jumbucks.
On the other hand, stations in central and
southern Queensland shear as early as May.
I have never heard the owners complain of
sheep losses through cold, nor of their chang-
ing their shearing season to warmer months,
and the winds that blow over those Queens-
land plains are piercingly cold. _ Of
course, it is folly to allow sheep to remain in
the yards at the shed all night after being
barbered when there is a sudden drop of
temperature. No matter how treeless the
country is, if they can find plenty of walking
space sheep in condition will come through
all right.
“Waddy Mundoie”: What’s wrong with
shearing in March and lambing in Septem-
ber? This is the prescription of a Queens-
land grazier who knows a lot about sheep,
and has resource and energy enough to test
hid ideas. Except in an abnormally wet and
humid season the fly is not much in evidence
before March, and is more or less quiescent
again by July. March shearing would give
the sheep comparative freedom from attack
during the worst periods of the year. Join
the rams in April-May when the sheep are
without fleece, and the ewes would have the
advantage of winter herbage conditions,
lambs would be born under temperate con-
ditions, and there would be five to six months
wool on them at shearing time.. Anyone
know of any reason why the thing should
not be given a trial?
THE DRAFT ALLOWANCE ON WOOL.
“Jumbuck”: David. A. S. Campbell says
(B. 7/12/’32) that woolbuyers either take
into consideration the draft when
estimating yields or, failing that, add
1-112th to their limits. If this were so, why
the objections of the buyers to doing away
with the allowance? Estimating the yield
of wool would be much easier for them if
deductions or additions had not to be made.
For myself I have yet to meet the buyer who
did not look upon the draft as a. gratuity,
and I would be surprised to meet one who
made allowance for it when valuing.
On various occasions when representations
have been made to the buyers by the wool-
brokers, at the request of the growers,. for
the omission of the draft from sale conditions,
the buyers have refused to consider . the
matter. To the buyers the draft was a time-
honored custom and had to stand. Boy-
cotting was even mentioned if the allow-
ance were withdrawn.
Only the combined woolgrowers can force
the abolition of the allowance, and it is one
of the planks of the platform that has been
adopted by the strong forces which recently
met at Roma (Q.), and which represented
practically the whole of the northern State’s
woolgrowers.
BEEF PROSPECTS BRIGHTENING.
“Rocky”: Queensland meat-exporting com-
panies operated last season with small pros-
pect of making money. They are now reaping
the benefit of selling in Britain under the re-
striction scheme, prices being about a. penny
per pound higher than they calculated on
getting. Graziers are asking where they
come in. Next season they will expect much
better prices for their fats. Last season
they were paid on a frozen-weight basis of
slightly less than £1 per 1001 b.; they hope
to secure at least another Bs. 4d. in the near
future. This will give the cattle business
a good lift if everything goes well with the
clearing of British accumulated stocks.
Apparently the meat exporters have con-
fidence in tlie future also. William Angliss
has been reiterating his faith in the industry,
and Borthwicks have bought the Bowen
meatworks, previously owned by the Bergl
interests. These works have not operated
extensively during recent years; their re-
opening under progressive management is
shre to assist cattlemen in that district —
which incidentally includes some of the best
cattle country in Queensland, taking in that
tract of land from Clermont east and north
towards the coast. It will also mean that
cattle from those places will have a rail
journey of only about 100 miles from Collins-
ville to Bowen, instead of having to. suffer
long hauls to Rockhampton or Brisbane.
Now that the works buy on a frozen-weight
basis according to quality the owners are
only too pleased to find a way of minimising
their transit costs and bruising losses. The
Bowen works should do well under Borth-
wicks, who have sound foreign representa-
tion and are able to get a chance to tender
for outside contracts.
POLLED CATTLE FETCH MORE.
‘ “Mooraki”: I am for polled against
horned cattle (B. 7/32/’32). For some
years I have crossed Red Polled bulls on
Hereford cows, and when we classed the
fats up into horned and polls the latter
always fetched 2s. 6d. to ss. per head more
at the meatworks —sometimes more. No
doubt Aberdeen Angus and Polled Hereford
would be equally good, but we gave prefer-
ence to the Red Polls because they were so
quiet and quick-maturing. As Red Polls
are also dairying cattle, I wonder dairymen
do not breed out their horns in the same
way. The first cross gives a nobby, the sec-
ond a poll.
PERENNIAL RYE-GRASS SEED.
“Perennial rye-grass,” writes F. R. Drake,
one of the departmental agrostologists,. in
the Vic. “Journal of Agriculture,” “is, with-
out question, the most important grass in
the majority of sown-down pastures in
Southern Victoria. It is included in prac-
tically all mixtures for permanent pastures
for districts where the rainfall is sufficient.
Darge quantities of seed are used, annually
in Victoria for this purpose, and it is import-
ant that this seed should be of as high a
quality and good a type as possible.” Experi-
ments with 160 samples have convinced Mr.
Drake that this is very far from being the
case.
He reserves his sharpest strictures for
ordinary or uncertified seed from Maoriland.
This, he declares emphatically, yields “the
worst type of rye-grass on the Victorian
market, and it is even questionable whether
it may be correctly described and sold under
the name of perennial rye-grass.. When sown
in a permanent pasture mixture it admittedly
establishes and grows well in the first season,
but by the second winter it has ceased to
be a useful element in the pasture, and its
disappearance affords an opportunity for
invasion by capeweed and other undesirable
plants. It is difficult to imagine that rye-
grass of this type can be made ,to serve any
useful purpose in Victorian agriculture.” On
the other hand, certified seed from Maori-
iand “has proved to be a standard article,
giving rise to plants which are practically
all of a truly perennial and vigorous type.
This seed is either harvested from old pas-
tures of high quality, or is once-grown from
seed from mother seed-producing. areas.”
Unfortunately “the price is very high', and
the supply is in no way sufficient to meet
our requirements, even were the price within
the means of the average farmer.”
Samples collected from the U.K. gave un-
satisfactory results, on the whole. Those
obtained from seed merchants are described
as “a very mixed lot. The name under which
the seed was sold seemed to bear very little
relation to the actual type or strain. Several
lots sold as Western District rye-grass
turned out to be of the M.L. short-lived
type; others proved to be Wimmera rye-grass.
There is very definite evidence that consider-
able quantities of Wimmera rye are being
sold as perennial rye, and, further, that
fields containing much Wimmera rye-grass
are being harvested as perennial. Some
samples, however, were good.”
The demand for seed is increasing j local
supplies are not. Yet, as the experiments
proved, excellent seed is grown in the West-
ern District and in Gippsland. In that
part of Victoria “there are large areas grow-
ing rye-grass of an excellent type from
which a seed crop is never taken.. Seed
from such areas would be better suited for
sowing in Gippsland than any other seed
obtainable.” Mr. Drake urges landowners
who could harvest good seed crops to utilise
their opportunities, and so benefit themselves,
their fellow-settlers and Australia.
QUEENSLAND WHEAT.
“Waddy Mundoie” : In the discussion that
raged round the decision of the State Wheat
Board to refuse a guarantee of 3s. 6Jd. a
bushel for this year’s crop, somebody raised
the question of the relative value of Queens-
land and southern wheats from a milling
point of view. That is where Queensland
wheat fails. In the mild climate wheat
shows the same inclination to degenerate as
horses, sheep and cattle. Constant replace-
ment from colder climes is necessary to keep
up standards.
I can recall the A 1 milling wheats of 30
years ago. Principal among them was
Manitoba Red, a hard grain born of the
hard conditions that prevail in Canada. Its
cultivation in Queensland was followed by
a progressive departure from standard until
its place as a first-class milling quality was
taken by varieties from the south, where new
hard sorts were evolved under Australian
conditions.
The fact is that Queensland is not, and
can never hope to be, a great wheat-produc-
ing State; climatic conditions are unfavor-
able. Particularly is this the case on the
Darling Downs, where the planting season
generally is dry and the harvest season
generally is wet. When conditions turn out
favorably they are entirely opposed to the
production of good, hard milling wheat; the
climate then is too soft. That is why it
will always be necessary to keep an eye on
producing conditions to prevent a slump
away from the standards of good hard wheat.
ADVICE TO TOBACCO-GROWERS.
So many people are trying to grow tobacco
on unsuitable soil, and producing leaf which
manufacturers refuse to buy (and there is
no way of making them), that the publica-
tion of a Commonwealth Government pam-
phlet on the subject is welcome. It is issued
free, and the hints it gives are useful, while
the warnings are needed. At Brisbane re-
cently 60 tons of leaf was offered at the
sixth (and last) auction sale of the season.
Representatives of three big concerns and a
smaller one paid as much as 4s. a pound
for first-grade lines from N.Q. (other prices
realised were 47d., 46d., 45d., 44d., 43d.,
42d., 41d. and 40d., all highly profitable),
(Continued on next page.)


B
....
Spend less on work
boots
This is an extra strong Abbey
Cossack .... made to cut down
your boot bill. It has a double
sole of the ruggedest leather
obtainable. The upper is
lined, too, with soft leather—
giving it a double thickness.
The Abbey Cossack is flexible
and comfortable. It outwears
any ordinary working boot. . .
longer service is guaranteed.
And it is ideal for the roughest
conditions.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 407-
Black Box Calf . . . . 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW
GEORGE STREET ADDRESS
No. 316 ALMOST DIRECTLY
OPPOSITE THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 313
n.
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling Fist Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
JIB
O
IllßCUlAiril'DSf*
HAPPY AND
PROSPEROUS
NEW YEAR
If You Advertise in
THE PERTH
The Largest Newspaper in
Western Australia.
SURE RESULTS AT
MINIMUM COST
Guaranteed Circulation and State-
wide Coverage.
N.S.W. Office:
Place,
AVingello
Sydney.
House, Angel
85690.
2VRMERS
r
Hgn RuRAI_ToPICS.DaIRYING.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
Horticulture. Veterinary
■ Notes Etc .... All in
■THE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES &
&
M
ê
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1 000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney ; or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).
tarr*|
w
THE ONLY COMPLETE OUTFIT FOR
BLOWOUTS AS WELL AS PUNCTURES
BUXL.-DOG GRIP is the only tube repair outfit that offers you
all the essentials for the quick and positive repair of large blow-
outs. as well as punctures. Complete, dependable and of highest
quality. The tough self-vulcanising patch grips on and never lifts.
For speedy, permanent, dependable roadside repairs, insist on
Bull-Dog Grip—the only complete tube repair outfit.
AT ALL GARAGES IN AUSTRALIA.
Made in Australia by Products Pty., Btd.
but 56 p.c. remained unsold. Portion of this
has since changed hands at pretty good
prices, but the report says that “there was
a very large percentage of low-grade parcels,
also immature and frosted lines, totally unfit
for manufacturing purposes,” and adds that
to send this stuff to market is waste of
time and money.
One point emphasised in the pamphlet—
which can be got from Australian Tobacco
Investigation, Box 109, Canberra, F.C.T., or
from State agricultural departments—that
it is no use taking up a large area of land
with the idea of raising big crops single-
handed. “One man can satisfactorily handle
only five acres of tobacco. Even then help
will be needed at harvest and during curing.”
In the choice of land climate is all-impor-
tant. If it is like that of North Carolina,
so much the better; there “the temperature
ranges from 55deg. to 90deg. F., the rain-
fall is evenly distributed, humidity is high,
and cloudy days frequent, while strong winds
are rare.” Where you have extremes of tem-
perature, uneven distribution of rainfall, low
humidity, bright sunshine and drying winds
you can’t grow good tobacco. Nor can irri-
gation correct natural faults.
The most suitable soil is described as “a
fine-textured, greyish-colored sand or sandy
loam, fairly deep and naturally well-drained,
with a friable sandy clay subsoil. The more
humus it contains the more suitable it is
for the production of bright flue-cured
tobacco of good quality—provided the rain-
fall is adequate and evenly distributed.”
Tilth, transplanting, topping, curing, bulk-
ing and grading are among the matters dis-
cussed, together with diseases and insect
pests. Incidentally, the writers mention that
there is a bit of a demand for Burley tobacco.
“This requires a soil reasonably rich in lime,
nitrogen, potash and phosphoric acid. It
should be grown fairly large, the leaves
should have good body and they should not
yellow prematurely in the field. It must be
air-cured on the stalk in a barn which will
give protection-from wind and allow regu-
lation of the rate of coloring and drying.”
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from, Service Department.)
I want to build concrete silos to store
about 7000 bushels of wheat. liow many
would I need, dimensions and materials?
And ivhere could I get designs and specifica-
tions? —3560.
You would require two silos of the well
type, 20ft. diameter, with walls 4ft. above
ground and a depth of lift, below ground.
For the two you need 86 paper bags of
cement, six cubic yards of sand and 12 cubic
yards of stone or gravel. Drawings and
working instructions will be forwarded to
you by Australian Cement Manufacturers’
Association, Spring-street, Sydney, on re-
quest.
The tree generally knoivn as “locust and
tvild honey'’ bears a large crop of beans.
Is there any known use for these beans
in the green or dry state? —3436.
The beans of this species have a sweet
sponge-like matter which is regarded as a
first-class stock food in some countries.
Several species of the genus Gleditschia are
commonly known as “honey-locust.”
Are grape-vines grown from seeds likely
to bear fruit, and how long will it take the
plants to bear? —3602.
Seedling grape-vines cannot be relied upon
to bear fruit. If they do bear, it is very
doubtful if the fruit will be of any value.
(1) Is early tomato-growing likely to be
profitable in theHambucca- and Coff’s Harbor
(N.S.W.) districts? (2) Do you recommend
share farming or renting areas? (3) Value
of land thereabouts? (4) When are early
tomatoes and glasshouse tomatoes grown in
those districts ready for marketing? (5)
How are prices? —337s.
(1) Many growers there have made good
profits and the area is increasing each year.
(2) It is better for a person growing tom-
atoes on stakes to rent an area. (3) Price
varies with quality, situation, etc. (4)
Several growers on elevated areas were
marketing tomatoes in mid-September this
season, but the bulk of the areas were not
ready for harvesting until the latter end of
October. Glasshouse tomatoes are usually
available from the end of August onwards.
(5) The prices obtained to the end of Novem-
ber this year have been considered satisfac-
tory, but they have now dropped.
Is ipecacuanha wine considered a preven-
tive of blackhead in turkey si —3s4B.
Yes. It is administered in the drinking
water, a dessertspoon to a quart, once a
week from the time the poults are a week
old until they “shoot the red.”
(1) Cause of coccidosis in poultry? (2)
Cure ? —3428.
(1) A protozoa damages the inner walls
of the intestines, particularly the ceca, re-
sulting in haemorrhage. (2) Clean up all
droppings in the pens at least every other
day. Dust a little slaked lime, on the floor.
Discontinue feeding grain. In bad outbreaks
give dried buttermilk only for one day;
afterwards feed a mash containing 40 per
cent, buttermilk for several days. When
the birds have shown signs of improvement
about one week, reduce the buttermilk con-
tent to 20 per cent, of the mash. Use a
buttermilk powder that has a high lactic
acid content.
How can I build a blacksmith’s forge? —
3404.
Mark out a square of the size you require
the forge, and build it up of brick to within
two courses of the top. Finish the top courses
with fire-bricks set with fire-clay. The top may
be arranged with a fire-brick rim round the
edges, forming a shallow pit. Leave a hole
at one side of the fireplace to insert the
tue iron from the bellows. Build the tue
iron into the bricks, and connect it to the
nozzle of the bellows. Build a light iron
frame to support the lever of the bellows.
Arrange the bellows at the back part of the
frame, and make the upper part support the
blowing lever. Examine a working forge
before you start making yours, and notice
how it is erected and connected to the bel-
lows.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Tasmanian Farmer”: I had a petrol
engine converted to burn fuel oil on being
assured of supplies at Is. per gallon.
Presently I found I could get it cheaper
from the Latrobe shale people; and it was
efficient, too. But Latrobe shut down (it
would be interesting to find out why), and
now I find fuel oil costs Is. 7-id. Any other
cocky who contemplates changing his engine
from petrol had better make sure about his
supplies of oil before he has the job done.
“Dimon”: Wire-fence posts sunk in
narrow hollows subject to rushing waters
during storms and floods get washed out, and
the holes soon cause the hollows to be torn
into ugly gullies. In such places use
droppers—stout battens that stand on the
surface. Besides avoiding erosion, the span
is easier to repair if there is a breakage
through rubbish being washed against it.
“Mimosa”: Laminitis is inflammation of
the soft tissues which unite the shell of the
hoof to the pedal bone. Inflammation of
any tissue is usually followed by swelling,
but in this case swelling is impossible inside
the shell of the hoof. The result is extreme
pain.' As a rule only forelegs are affected,
although in some cases hindlegs suffer as
well. About all that can be done is to keep
the feet moist and warm with cloths soaked
in hot water and to administer nitrate of
potash. Get l|oz., make into 12 powders
and give one twice daily in a mash.
“Cee Bee” : I disagree with “Kedron P.”
(B. 9/11/’B2) regarding mixed bales and
pressing. Where there is variation in flocks
in age and breeding it is almost impossible
to judge to a half-bale as to how the wool
will come. If a classer is to keep to his
standards and types, in some cases he may
be caught with half-bales of fleece, especially
in the cast-lines of a clip. It is much better
to make a bad bale than to force a line and
so make a variation in another line of fleece
wool. It will meet a ready demand, even
from star-lot buyers, by being carefully pre-
pared down to the lowest line of the clip.
“Mulgo”: When grinding tools, turn the
stone towards the blade; if turned the other
way it drags on the edge. Narrow blades,
such as chisels, should be ground more on
the edge of the stone; if held always in the
centre the face of the stone soon wears into
a hollow, and is tlius spoilt for grinding wide
blades.
“W..T.W.”: I had a bamboo thicket in
a fenced paddock and cut it down at ground
level. In six weeks the young shoots were
between two and three feet high. I was
about to level them again when a dairyman
offered to do the job for me, in return for
the green stuff. After the first visit, at
his request I ran water over the area, and
the growth since has been surprising. His
stock are keen on the shoots, and he has
noticed no harmful effects on the milk. A
bamboo patch would give probably a greater
yield than most crops, and should make good
silage. Anyone tried it?
“Wrash”: When unknown plants make
their appearance in the cultivation pad-
dock or on the run, their seeds may have
come long distances in the coats of animals
or in horse-feed. Be on the safe side and
root them out. In many districts serious
noxious-weed menace might have been pre-
vented if earljr control measures had been
taken.
“Gres”: A broken axe-handle can be bored
or burned out; in the latter case bury the
axe up to the eye in the ground, otherwise
the heat will affect its temper. To fit a
new handle, shave it down gradually, so
that the head has to be bumped on. A
loose fit is useless. Don’t cut off handle
flush with head; leave about |in. protrud-
ing, insert a metal wedge, and you have a
lasting job.
“A.C.8.”: To get the best results from
overgrown tomato plants do not sink them
deep in a hole, but make a shallow trench
and layer them. Put water in trench and
turn up the last two inches of the plants
gently to avoid breaking.
“Waranbini”: When calves are penned at
night they do much better if they have a
run of half an acre or an acre at'the back
of the pen. The open is more comfortable
in hot weather, and if the enclosure is
grassed the calves will pick about during
part of the time they are shut in. When the
weather is cold or wet they will seek the
shelter of the pen themselves.
“Minorca”: “Jay Gee” (B. 23/11/’32)
notwithstanding, there are wheat-growing
districts in which meagre rainfall and diffi-
culty in obtaining suitable catchment areas
and holding ground make horses an expen-
sive, at times almost an impossible, form
of power. In the north-east portion of the
Westralian wheat belt, for example, good
crops can be grown on a light rainfall;
but I have known settlers to have to cease
farm work for weeks at a time, being fully
occupied in carting water from wells 10 and
15 miles away. When this happens during
fallowing it is bad enough; when it occurs
at harvest it may be disastrous.
J. H. Gumming, a veteran of the Camel
Corps, now farming on the Upper Black-
wood (W.A.), has an original wav of deal-
ing with the blowfly pest. He pours kerosene
into shallow tin troughs, placed on brackets
at the base of his windows; flies, overcome
by the fumes, drop in, to be conveyed into
a treacle-tin and converted into fire-kindlers.
“And they’re the best kindlers I ever used,”
says the proud camelier.
“Albarmount”: Thinking to improve the
carrying capacity of one of my large pad-
docks I cultivated a small area and sowed it
with lucerne. It responded well, but, owing
to insufficient subdivisions, the sheep had
to remain in that paddock practically all the
year, and they devoured under-leaves and
all. From my experience I would say sub-
divisions are the first necessity, then pas-
ture improvement.
“A.G.”: In an English lawsuit as to the
ownership of a quantity of hides, the ques-
tion arose as to whether a certain lot were
of American or Australian origin. The
head storeman of a tannery swore they were
Australian, as only Australian hides were
“butchered” in flaying. “I have handled
hides from all over the world,” he added,
“and I have never opened a bale of Aus-
tralian hides in which there wasn’t a loss
of 5 to 20 per cent, through knife cuts and
brands.” This sort of thing is not a loss
to the owners alone, but to the community.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. , , .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissib.e.
Wants.
Typist, Sydney, neat and accurate, wants work;
own machine.—349o.
By lady (24), position as governess-companion or
lady help, Q’land or N.S.W. Previous exp. Refs.
—3502.
Young man (21), with engineering exp., wants
position on pearling lugger or auxiliary schooner.
—3505.
American youth desires to correspond with Aus-
tralians interested or engaged in journalism or
advertising. (To Bill Kadison, 3029 Ganahl-street,
Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.)
To exchange pair Winslow ball-bearing roller
skates, Egyptian gold cigarette case and fishing rod
for D.B. hammerless gun. —3543.
Words of Lawson’s poem “Newchum Bushman.”
—3520.
To hear from Robert Scobie or anyone knowing his
whereabouts. (To Aubrey Scott, Box 3506 RR,
G.P.0., Sydney.)
Information Sought.
(1) Under what conditions are nominated
passages granted to persons living in Eng-
land who wish to come to W.A.? (2) Rates
of such passages? (3) Can a loan of the
passage money he arranged? —3433.
(1) The leading condition is that they
must have a friend or relative in W.A. who
will undertake to meet them on arrival and
be responsible for their settlement. With-
out special approval single women over the
age of 35 years and other persons over the
age of 60 years are not eligible. (2) Chil-
dren under 12 years, free; juveniles, 12
years and under 17 years, £5 10s. each';
juveniles, 17 years and under 19 years, £ll
each; married couples, widowers, widows,
and wives nominated by husbands, accom-
panied by at least one child under 19 years,
£ll each; other persons, 19 years and under
60 years, £l6 10s. each. (3) In special
circumstances a loan of part of the passage
money may be granted. In such cases re-
payment must be guaranteed by a _ third
party and the loan must be repaid by
monthly instalments.
Who was Madame Tussaud? —3446,
Madame Marie Tussaud was born at Berne,
Switzerland, in 1760. She studied art under
her uncle in Paris, and was appointed draw-
ing-mistress to. the family of Louis XVI.
She went to England in 1802, where her
waxwork exhibition became, and still is, one
of the most popular sights of the city. She
died in 1850.
(1) Cause of a dog’s nose bleeding? (2)
Treatment when bleeding persists? —3443.
(1) It may be due to injury to the head.
It often occurs in cases of pneumonia, and
is also a symptom of a polypus or parasite
in the nose or ulceration of the membrane
lining the nasal passage. (2)_ When slight no
particular treatment is required, but if per-
sistent the cause should be ascertained and, if
possible, removed. When severe, as the
result of some injury, ice may be held to the
bridge of the nose intermittently ; _ if
this does not stop it, then pour or inject
about 15 drops of solution of adrenalin,
diluted four times with water, into one or
both nostrils. But continuous application
of adrenalin to the nostrils is dangerous.
In the card game “hearts” what is the
way of settling by the sweep stales method?
—3444.
Each player pays one counter into the
pool for each heart taken. _ A player
without hearts wins the _ thirteen; if
two are in this position it is divided, the
odd counter being left for the next pool. If
al] players have taken hearts, or if one has
taken the lot, the pool remains, and forms
a Jack, which can be won only by a single
player in a subsequent deal taking no hearts,
each' of the others having taken at least
one. A Jack pool is increased by thirteen
counters every deal, until some player takes
it off.
What foods contain no vitamins? —3445.
Tinned, salted or potted meats, meat
extracts, white fish, white flour, white corn-
flour, polished rice, pearl ba-rley, tapioca,
sago, vegetable margarine, lard, olive oil, tea,
coffee, cocoa, sugar and jam, to mention the
most commonly known.
(1) How many wholesale wine and spirit
merchants are there in Singapore and Malay
States, and name of principal firm? (2)
Any opportunity for a trader with . little
capital and experience in the handling of
hulk wines and spirits there? (3) Any other
information ? —3251.
(1) Approximately 25 wine and spirit
merchants in Singapore, five in Penang, 20
in two principal centres of F.M.S. Many
of these are purely local Chinese organisa-
tions, but two firms which appear to have
branches in important centres are Caldbeck
MacGregor and Co. and Eastern Agencies,
Ltd., both of Singapore. (2) and (3) Very
slight. Reduction of European staffs by
rubber estates has caused serious unemploy-
ment, and salary cuts of 15 to 25 p.c. have
lowered the purchasing power of white
community, which is the pi’incipal consumer
of wines and spirits.
(1) What is evolution? (2) What is
Darwin’s theory? (2) Has his theory been
accepted as correct or disproved? —34sl.
(1) The term is most commonly applied
to the biological doctrine that the higher
and more complex forms of life have gradu-
ally developed from lower and simpler forms.
(2) The name is commonly applied to the
theory of evolution, in support of which
Darwin marshalled an overwhelming array
of evidence, hut the foundations of the
generalisation were laid by Harvey, Des-
cartes and others, and Darwin’s contribution
was paralleled simultaneously by that of
Wallace. (3) The main conclusions are
accepted by all biological authorities of the
first rank.
What was the object of the Sale of Honors
Bill introduced in the British Parliamentl
—3454. /T> ,
Correct title is Honors (Prevention of
Abuses) Act. It was designed to carry out
the recommendations of a committee set up
in 1922 to advise on the procedure to be
adopted by the Prime Minister in. making
recommendations for honor. It stipulates,
among other things, that any person promis-
ing to secure an honor for any pecuniary
payment or other consideration, and any
person promising such payment, should bo
liable to imprisonment or a fine.
How to measure voltage by the spark
method? —3462.
Two pointed metal electrodes are mounted
on an insulating stand and provided with
a micrometer screw adjustment for altering
the distance between the points. The high
voltage source is connected across the elec-
trodes and the air gap between them gradu-
ally increased until the spark just fails to
pass. Reference is then made to a. table
for the maximum voltage corresponding to
this gap length. A iin. gap equals 8900
volts, sin. gap 16,300 volts, and lm.. gap
29,400 volts.
(1) What is the difference in etching
between a “state” and a “trial proof'? (2)
Which is the most valuable state to a col-
lector? (3) Is there much variation beiween
them? —3471.
States of an etching or engraving are
products of successive workings on the plate.
The artist carries his work to a certain
stage and then prints from the plate. Certain
details need adding or changing, and the
process is repeated. Each repetition con-
stitutes a state. When an early state clearly
does not represent the artist’s conception
it is obviously incomplete. This is usually
called a trial proof. (2) The first state
is usually the desired one. (3) It may be
only a few scratches or a large portion of
the design.
How many wives had Ivan the Terrible?
Who were they and what were their respec-
tive fates? —3472.
Seven. Anastasia Zakharin, Maria Tem-
grynk and Martha Sobakin are supposed to
have been poisoned; Anna Koltovska was
sent to a convent; Anna Vasilchikoff and
Vasillissa Melentief, he discarded; Maria
Nagaya outlived him.
Fired from a long-barrel Lee-Enfield rifle,
what distance will a .303 bullet travel before
falling to the ground spent ? —3196.
The extreme range of Mk. VI ammuni-
tion which is fired from Lee-Enfield long
rifles may be taken as 3760 yards. This
range was, however, obtained with a strong
rear wind.
(1) Gan a general anaesthetic be safely
given, to dogs? (2) How? (3) Method of
resuscitation, if necessary? (4) How to
relieve irritation arising from a grass . seed
in dog’s ear? (5) Symptoms of hydatids in
(a) dogs, (b) humans? (6) Flame of bool-
on treatment of dogs? —322B.
(1) Yes. (2) Chloroform and ether mix-
tures are administered by means of a large
muzzle which admits of a free supply of
fresh air. (3) Remove mask, place in a
draught of air if possible, pump forelegs to
cause artificial .respiration, and administer
small doses of strychnine hypodermically.
(4) The seed must be. removed either by
picking it out with a pair of forceps or, fail-
ing that, by gently syringing with slightly
soapy warm water. A teaspoonful of slightly
warmed sweet oil should be placed in the ear
after syringing. (5) Dogs are not affected
with hydatids, but harbor the parasite which
is the cause of hydatids in other, animals
and man. Symptoms of hydatids in human
beings vary with the situation of the hydatid
cyst. The lungs and liver are very com-
monly affected, and persons with hydatids
in the lungs have cough and wasting, which
is often mistaken for tuberculosis. (6) A
book on the subject suited to the lay reader
has yet to be written.
What are the principal essential oils col-
lected from Papuan timbers , and are they
of any value? —3434.
It is possible that oils of value will be
discovered. Some trees closely resembling
ylang ylang occur in the territory. Ginna-
momum massoia is a fairly common tree, and
yields a spicy bark, the volatile oil of which
contains eugenel, 79 p.c.; safrole, 14 . p.c.;
other constituents (principally terepines),
7 p.c. The nominal value of the oil is about
4s. per pound in London. The wood of the
sigura ( Gampnospermum brevipetiolata)
yields a clean yellow oil which the natives
in some places use for the same purpose as
cocoanut oil. The wood of Pentaspodon
motleyii contains an oil in such abundance
that it may be collected in receptacles, much
as resin is collected from the maritime pine.
(1) How to reduce or eliminate needle-
scratch in an electric gramophone pick-up?
(2) Would a reduction of scratch be accom-
panied by a corresponding reduction in the
volume of music? —3s3l.
(1) By a tuned filter circuit, consisting
of a fixed condenser in series with a choke
coil connected across the pick-up terminals.
The values must be so chosen that they pro-
duce resonance at about 4000 cycles, as, for
example, a condenser of 0.01 mfd. and an
inductance of 0.15 henry. As the scratch
is not confined to any one particular fre-
quency, approximate values of inductance
and capacity may be used. (2) Some of
the very high frequencies ai’ound 4000 cycles
will inevitably be lost, but the middle and
lower frequencies will not be affected.
How to adjust the governor valve of a
4 h.p. Marshall steam engine? —34so.
Remove the cap on top of the governor
and adjust the two lock-nuts underneath by
loosening them for faster speeds and tighten-
ing them for slower speeds. When adjusted
to approximately the correct speed the upper
nut is tightened up. An additional variation
of about 10 p.c. can be obtained by adjust-
ing the worm at the bottom of the governor.
(1) Do killer ivhales inhabit Australian
waters? (2) What are their characteristics?
Any specimens in Australian museums?—
3535. . ..
(1) Yes. (2) The largest reach a length
of 30ft. Color is black above, white below,
with a white patch over the eye. The back
fin is long and nearly vertical and the
flippers are large. There are about twelve
large teeth on each side in both upper and
lower jaws. (3) Skeletons in Sydney, Adel-
aide and Melbourne; skull of a lesser killer
in Brisbane.
The flowers are withering and falling off
my Christmas hush before coming to matur-
ity. Cause and remedy? —3s4s.
Too much water or rich manure may be
the cause. Dig a small drain about 2ft.
from the base of the shrub to carry off sur-
plus moisture. Burning off the foliage with
a lighted bush or paper is a more drastic
remedy. It will kill all top-growth, but
fresh shoots will come from the base of the
shrub. If the burning-off is done in January
the new growth may carry blooms next
December.
How many Chinese are there in Australia,
and in what States are they most ntmerous?
—3411.
Approximate number at present is 13,000
—5700 in N. S. Wales, 3300 in Q’la.nd, 2400
in Vie. and 1000 in W.A.
Recipe for horehound beer? —3350.
2oz. whole ginger, 21b. brown sugar, 21oz.
hops, \ breakfast cup golden syrup, 2 hand-
fuls horehound, a dandelion root if procur-
able, 10 quarts water. Boil all together for
1-J hours, strain into a tub, and let cool.
Add i cup yeast, and let stand for two days,
then skim well and bottle. Tie the corks
well.
What are “thickening of the arteries ” and
“high blood-pressure”? Hoiv are they caused,
what are the symptoms, and what remedies
are used? —3371.
Thickening of the arteries is arteriosclero-
sis. It shows itself as high' blood-pressure.
The walls of the arteries lose their elasticity
and cannot pump blood through the body with
the same ease as before. The causes are
many and all are not known. It runs in
families. The symptoms may be anything
from a mild headache to a sudden stroke ;
and the diagnosis is made by means of an
instrument called a sphygmomanometer,
which measures the pressure in the arteries.
No drugs seem to have much permanent effect
on the course of the disease. The patient
must rest as much as possible, and should be
under medical supervision. Diet should be
moderate, with a limitation on meats.
Is it true that the Mamba snake of Africa
can keep pace with a galloping horse, and
what is known concerning the distance snakes
can travel at a sustained speed? —334l.
The Mamba can move faster than a man
can walk or trot, but not nearly as fast
as a trotting li'orse. There are no. records
relating to the exact speeds of snakes, or the
distance over which they can maintain their
speed.
Recipe for removing tattoo marks? —3418.
Apply a highly concentrated tannin solu-
tion to the tattoo marks with a needle, as
the tattooer does. Next day vigorously rub
the place with a stick of lunar caustic and
allow it to act for some time, until the
marks have turned entirely black. Then dab
with linen rag until thoroughly dry. A slight
inflammation will set in, and in about 14
to 16 days the marks should scale off, leav-
ing behind a reddish scar. The color of the
skin should then gradually return.
I am commencing a collection of British
coins. Should coins of similar design but of
different dates be kept? —347B.
The date becomes important to the collec-
tor only when it records some event of
interest, such as the year of the. first issue
of the type, or the last. For instance, a
British threepence of 1902 records the first
issue, and one of 1910 records the last. In
a case where a very short-lived type or issue
appeared, say of four or five years, or less,
such as Janies 11., 1685-1688, specimens of
each date are of interest and tend to become
rare. There are, however, collectors who
collect consecutive dates.
An Australian paper recently published
an account of a hair restorer produced by
Dr. B. N. Bengston of Chicago. Are sup-
plies available in Australia? —3sl6.
The preparation is unknown to Australian
chemists and medical practitioners. Dr.
Bengston, in reply to inquiries, states that
his work is purely experimental. While
interesting and suggestive results have been
obtained, it will in all probability be a very
long time before anything practical results,
and it is not advisable that any of the
preparations investigated by him should be
used by the general public until a great deal
more is known about them.
I have a piece of very old, colored
embroidery ichich I have been told is “Little
Cidding,” or “stump work.” What does that
mean? —3sl9.
Called “Little Gidding” after the nuns of
that place, who specialised in an eccentric
sort of raised stitchery. It was composed
of silks, spangles, beads, braids, wires, pea-
cocks’ feathers, coral, pearl and any other
thing the embroiderers could get. The stumps,
used to give an appearance of modelling
to the design, were rolls and pads of tow or
horsehair, held in place with a sort of lattice
stitch. Sometimes wood, carved to shape,
or moulded wax was employed. Most stump-
work pictures are on white satin, and they
are mostly Biblical in character, although
occasionally Charles I. and Henrietta Maria
are met with, surrounded by butterflies,
beetles, rabbits, lions, snails and caterpillars.
Much of the ground in genuine stump may
be covered in tiny silver spangles, composed
of tiny wire rings hammered flat.
Brief Answers.
H.H'.: (1) “Across New Guinea from the
Fly to the Sepik,” by Ivan F. Champion. (2)
“What Bird Is That?” by Neville W. Cayley
V.A.K.: (1) Yes. (2) 5s E.K.W.: Improbable that
the pain denotes anything serious. It may be a little
stiffness caused by keeping the muscles and joints
in the one position, as when sewing. A little
massage and heat may relieve it. If it continues,
consult a doctor... .A.R.: There are no articles
available to the general public on the subject of
disseminated sclerosis. Those in textbooks are too
technical to be understood by non-medical readers
J.S.: From Rev. A. J. Mills, St. Stephen’s Old
School, Elizabeth-street, Brisbane R.H.: Any
public library contains a number of books which
will furnish the information T.H.F.: No satis-
factory reply can be given unless samples arc
submitted F.M.: Henniker Heaton in his “Dic-
tionary of Dates” does not mention the murder of a
carrier named Mugridge in the list of crimes up to
1877 W.G.: Captain Bull was in charge of the
soldiers who guarded the convicts engaged in road
construction on the Blue Mountains in the ’thirties.
It is not attributed to the authorities that they
caused the “interesting relics” to be removed.
Captain Bull had orders to form the camp at Wood-
ford. Don’t know of a book giving details. .. .L.J.C.:
(1) Newson’s “Practical Boat Building.” (2) Bullen’s
“Yachting.” (3) Sadler’s “Practical Sail-making”
and Davis’s “How Sails Are Made and Handled”....
C.S.L.: (1) A student can qualify to practise
medicine in six years in most medical schools and
many do so. (2) British Empire universities work
on a common basis as regards the medical course.
(3) It is possible to get all sorts of degrees in
America. Only those recognised by British univer-
sities can be registered here. (4) That would be a
matter of arrangement—probably yes... .H.E.8.:
Unemployment Relief Tax of Is. per week should be
deducted from payments made to the employee.
You are not liable for Family Endowment Tax, as
wages are not £3 per week.... .N.M.0.: All white
cats are not deaf, but many are. Cause unknown....
R.W.R.: Wheatcraft’s “Law of Copyright” (9s. 9d.) and
Copinger’s “Law of Copyright” (665. 6d.) ... .E.H.:
Askin’s “Rifle and Rifle Shooting” (Bs.) and Cas-
well’s “Sporting Rifles and Rifle Shooting” (265.
6d.) T.S.: Hannan Bros., 58 Flinders-street,
Adelaide, can furnish a wind-driven electric lighting
plant A.G.F.: Write Poultry Expert, Agriculture
Dept., Bridge-street, Sydney D.L.: The Macleod
Gallery, Bulletin Buildihgs, 252 George-strcet,
Sydney... .E.W.W.: Such a marriage is permissible
in both N.S.W. and Vic A.C.H.: The Red Jacket
arrived at Auckland on May 17, 1860, having left
Liverpool on Jan. 27 and Melbourne on May 6.
Auckland “Examiner” of May 19 and “Weekly
Register” of May 21 contain lists of passengers. It
is doubtful if this ship ever visited the West Coast
and carried gold-diggers.... T.C.: There is no record
of the soldier beetle attacking flowers and vegetables.
There is a possibility that the insect is the harlequin
fruit bug P.A.N.: Hasluck’s “Knotting and
Splicing Ropes and Cordage” (2s, 6d.)....
F.M.: Hugh Ward was born in 1871 at Philadelphia
(U.S.A.) R.J.D.: Vic. Leg. Assembly consists of
32 U.A.P. members, 14 U.C.P. members, 16 official
Labor members, 2 unendorsed Labor members and
one Independent... .H.J.P.: Write Sec., Australian
Natives’ Assoc., 60 Queen-street, Melbourne M.D.:
Rennell Island is 120 miles to the south-east of
San Cristoval in the Solomon Group. It is about
50 miles long and varies in width from six to
twelve miles. It is probably the finest example in
the world of a raised atoll G.R.: Europeans are
said to find the climate of Tahiti fairly agreeable.
In the hot months of February and March, 94 degrees
is never exceeded S.T.F.: The Government’s small
steamer Maui Pomare, carrying passengers, mails and
cargo, leaves M.L. ports irregularly and maintains
communication between M.L. and the Samoan Group,
Nuie and the Tongan Group H.H.: Only three
players have scored 1000 runs and taken 100 wickets
in Tests between England and Australia: George
Giffen, 1238, averaging 23.35, and 103 wickets at
27.09 ; M. A. Noble, 1905, averaging 30.72, and 115
wickets at 24.78; W. Rhodes, 1706, averaging 31,
and 109 wickets at 24.0 M.W.: Prince George was
born on Dec. 20, 1902 N. 8.: The pruning should
have been done after flowefing. To cut. them now
is to lose the young flowering wood which will carry
blooms next year 8.5.: Write Sydney School of
Arts Chess Club, 275 a Pitt-street... .H.E.P.: The
machine is unknown to the trade in Sydney. Call
and see E. P. Rowell, Burroughs, Ltd., Challis
House, Martin-place, who will try to help y0u....
P.E.P.8.: Clean off all dust, etc., and go over the
shoes with a sponge dipped in benzine. Repeat
the sponging as the benzine evaporates, and the
original color of the leather should soon be restored.
If very obstinate, a weak solution of oxalic acid
may be tried L.S.: AH procurable from Craffia
Arts and Crafts Materials, 11 Pitt-street Level, Her
Majesty’s Arcade, Sydney A.W.C.: Unemployment
Relief Tax first came into force in Queensland on
August 1, 1930 A.C.R.: The salt is-the cause
of the trouble, and must be removed or smothered.
There are three methods of improvement: removing
and discarding the top-dressing and salt layer,
flooding the court with water to attempt to wash
out the salt, or asphalting the surface. The last
makes the best job H.C.: Yes, it a value.
Submit it to Dymock’s... G.W.R.: Interview Agricul-
tural Bank at Hobart, which acts as agent for the
War Service Homes Commission. .. .W.F.M.M.:
Cannot be used without permission from the Home
Office, London. This involves a searching examina-
tion of the association’s standing J.S.: (1) 2-id.
per line, less 10 p.c. reduction on amount due to
contributor. (2) Will answer later H.L.: (1)
No. (2) Can find no information on the subject in
Sydney. Write to the British Consul-General at
Algiers T.W.H.: Sir James Barrie’s address is 3
Adelphi Terrace House, London, W.C.2... .F.C.8.:
Write Country Press Co-operative Co., 5 Barrack-
street, Sydney F.W.W.: The Town Clerk, Laun-
ceston, states that (1) consumers, are not limited in
the use of water for domestic purposes. If a con-
sumer requires an extraordinary supply (for garden),
a garden license must be paid for. (2) If water
is not required for a garden, a license need not
be taken out. (3) It is necessary to sign an agree-
ment for a gar-den license. (4) No record....
J.8.M.: Write to the Commonwealth Clothing
Factory, South Melbourne, Vic L.A.D.: Send a
sample of the water with an account of the treat-
ment to the Agricultural Chemist, Department of
Agriculture and Stock, Brisbane, and you will _be
advised R. J. 8.: A sixpence dated 1835 (William
IV.) has no more than its currency value
D.P.M.: Cane-cutting in Queensland starts about
July 1 and lasts five to six months; the cutting
price ranges from 7s. 2d. to 15s. 7d. per ton.
Membership of the A.W.U. is necessary. Prospects
of employment for newcomers are very slight
r.N.P. : The jar is of Staffordshire manufacture, about
1850. There are a few collectors for the lids of
these jars, which are sometimes framed, but when
they are broken they are of little value. Perfect
lids, decorated in colors, fetch up to 10s
R.C.: When staining cold water paint, use dry
colors in water, mixing the color with water till
it is free from lumps and reasonably thin; then
mix thoroughly with the paint. If a little of the
mixing is applied to paper and allowed to dry
the resulting shade will be observed (Many others
mailed.)


MEN AMONG
PEARLS
BY
H. Drake-Brockman
Synopsis : On me pearling grounds
beyond Broome Christopher Kent
saves the life of another pearler,
Horton, who has been attached and
. thrown overboard. In his bunk that
night he thinks of the years at Oxford,
the war years, and of his cousin Let-
tice Kent, who had jilted him. Mean-
while, in Broome, Mr. Montgomery,
an old trader, hears the news that
Captain Goer, also in the pearling
business, is to bring hi.s daughter from
Melbourne. Remembering the eager
little girl, Monty wonders what she
will be like now. Next morning
young Peter Fordyce, who owns many
luggers, interrupts a meeting on Hor-
ton's boat. The pearlers are discuss-
. ing what should be done to Horton s
would-be murderer when caught. For-
dyce, Chris and 'Horton go into.
Broome and are there when June Goer
arrives. Fordyce is struck with her
beauty and Chris with her remarkable
likeness to Lettice. Next morning
June meets Chris and “Uncle Monty"
at breakfast; she notices a difference
in Mr. Montgomery and more especi-
ally in her father, who seems rougher
and coarser than in Melbourne. She
is taken up with the strangeness of
her new home and puts her fears
aside. Monty realises the girl's dis-
like. for him and wonders if ever
again she icill feel the old affection.
CHAPTER V.
Courthouse and Shi-poo.
DEPRESSION weighed heavily upon
Christopher Kent when on Monday
morning he wended his way to the
Courthouse. In spite of ducks and topee,
he felt out of place striding along past the
haphazard bungalows set down behind their
oleander hedges, past the trees growing here
and there, without order, even sometimes
in the middle of the road, so that the
meagre traffic had to dodge round them.
The iron roof of the Courthouse, a bungalow
like all the other buildings, was shaded by
an enormous baobab-tree; Chris regarded
its swollen trunk with hostile eyes swept
suddenly by nostalgia for a russet beech
or the slender elegance of larches. But
presently, caught into a group of men talk-
ing and laughing on the verandah, his
spirits rose.
Old Horton had put in good work over
the week-end. He intended to have a
came celebre —and was getting it. Every
pearler not outside appeared to have turned
up at the Courthouse, and some of the shell-
buyers, too. The colored witnesses sat on
a bench under the noses of two police, and
before long Ah Mat, sulky, stumped up the
steps in custody. Next Horton, his head
still bandaged, stepped out of the Govern-
ment Resident’s office. Anyone could see
he was in a towering rage.
“How’s the corpse?” inquired one of the
pearlers facetiously.
Horton glowered, not deigning to reply;
the least hint of a jest offending him
Arrogantly he stalked past until, catching
sight of Ah Mat a.nd Chris at the same
moment: “Murder!” he spat forth. “Good
morning, Chris, my boy. I’ve something
to tell you.”
Kent found himself seized by his immacu-
late white lapel and dragged aside.
“D’you know what’s happened? That
one-eyed Mother’s Darling of a sergeant!
D’you think I could get him to issue a
warrant for murder on the high seas? Not
I! Best I could get out of him was com-
mon assault. Common assault! My God,
why did I listen to you coves—a yard-arm
was the place for the yellow swine!”
The offending sergeant appeared,' very
burly and brisk; asked them to go into the
Court-room. Chris followed behind a
black-browed Horton, realised with a sort
of urban amazement that the pearler was
actually thirsting for the blood of the surly
creature being ushered into the dock.
Chris sat down on the witnesses’ bench
and watched Tweedie, the Government-
Resident, walk in with immense dignity,
and, having first arranged himself and very
deliberately altered the position of every
article on his desk, nod to the sergeant.
The hearing proceeded.
Horton made a spectacular witness. The
white-clad men crowding the room were
thoroughly pleased with the morning’s
entertainment. But, even after the com-
plainant had dramatically retold his tale—
how, suspecting he heard one of the crew
flagrantly disobeying his orders that no one
was to go off drinking and gambling on
any other lugger, he had gone up to in-
vestigate, and, as he stepped from the
scuttle, had been felled from behind like
a bullock, tipped into the sea to drown—
even after such a graphic tale, Tweedie
appeared doubtful.
“Do you mean to say,” he asked por-
tentously—“do you really mean to say
that this—er—Ah Mat struck you, without
your first—er—speaking to him?”
“Never saw the swine! First thing I
knew I was being hauled out of the water
by Mr. Kent here. Just like a blasted
fish.”
“Never saw the defendant? You mean
he struck you entirely without provoca-
tion?”
“'Provocation? My—yes, that is what
I really mean.”
Horton left the ■ witness box and sank
down beside Chris. “Another moment,”
he muttered into his ear, “and I’d have
been up for contempt of court. Can’t the.
fool believe a straight tale?”
“Well,” temporised Chris, “it must seem
a bit strange to think he’d try to kill
you for no reason.”
“Reason? He was mad at being stopped
from gallivanting. You next. Up you
go and do your damnedest.”
After Kent, the prosecuting sergeant
called all Horton’s crew. They were not
interesting; the majority required an inter-
preter. By noon the room had grown hot
and steamy, although most of the audience
had drifted out to smoke. Suddenly Horton,
himself, rose and went out, beckoning Chris
to follow.
“Come and have a snifter,” he said.
“Damn this crowd. Too much red tape.”
“But you can’t go.”
“Can’t I? You watch me then!”
Others joined them. Over to the shi-poo
shop on the corner pf the marsh they
drifted. Chris drank beer with the rest,
wishing he could wipe the edge of his glass
before he put lips to it, and not feel a fool.
Horton and the others leant on the counter,
joked with the white barman. A drinking
shop for colored men, the shi-poo. It was
packed whenever the boats were in, in the
Lay-up and on holidays, but the two or
three Japs who were there when the whites
trooped in from the Courthouse cleared
out on to the wide verandah and left them
in possession.
Chris looked a,t the weedy creature be-
hind the counter, swirling glasses and roar-
ing at one of Horton’s jokes, and despised
him. How could a man sink so low as to
wait on a rabble of Asiatics! Yet the
others didn’t appear to think about the
matter at all—they were almost intimate
with “Old Joe,” as they called him. Any-
where else in the world he’d have put him-
self beyond the pale Well, it was none
of his business, but he wished the crowd
would hurry up and leave the hot room
with its odor of stale beer and onions—
or was it garlic?—and its dreary outlook
over the marsh where the sky mocked,
brazen and luminous.
“Boys,” said Horton suddenly, banging
down his glass, striding out, “here’s where
we get back to red tape! Where are you,
Chris?”
The Court-room was once again packed
when the drinkers returned. They had
missed the sensation of the morning; Ah
Mat was giving evidence, and it appeared
he had just informed the Bench that his
boss had most certainly assaulted him.
“What have you to say to that, Mr.
Horton?” demanded the sergeant, gazing
inimically at a white-hot Horton. He had
noted and disapproved of the complain-
ant’s absence.
“Nothing,” retorted Horton. “I’ve given
my evidence.”
Tweedie interposed. After all, a white
man was a white man. “But possibly you
might care to—er—amend it? Are you
sure—isn’t it just possible—that in the
heat of the moment, the general confusion,
you may have forgotten?”
“Forgotten nothing,” shouted Horton,
livid. “And nothing more to add!”
The magistrate turned to Ah Mat.
“You savvy?” he queried. “Mr. Horton
say no.”
The Malay grunted, thrust out his lower
lip, the yellowish whites of his eyes show-
ing as he glanced towards his. boss. “He
knock me down orri’,” said he.
“Where?”
“Where I stand.”
“Where were you standing?”
“Alonga foreshore.”
Mystified, Tweedie gazed round. Horton
sprang to his feet with a roar. “Alonga
foreshore! My
God, two years ago
—in Broome. So
that’s what he was
paying off.”
“Order, please,
Mr. Horton,” said
Tweedie sternly.
“Then you admit
you did hit—er —
Ah Mat?”
“More than two
years ago. He was
being insolent.”
One of the
Malays was re-
called, asked if he remembered.
“Yes. Boss hit him orri’. Proper muck-
up. Ah Mat get up, by’mby he say: ‘I
wait. Might be long time. I wait. I
get him.’ ”
At last, just on lunch time, Tweedie
summed up. He considered there had been
a certain amount of provocation. He sen-
tenced Ah Mat to fourteen days’ imprison-
ment.
Grinning, Ah Mat was led away towards
the palm-shadowed gaol, leaving behind a
boss whose injured head was causing more
pain than his friends suspected, but whose
injured dignity was an exquisite torture.
“And the swine tried to murder me!” was
all Horton could manage to say. “Four-
teen days! I’ll be the one to get even
next Come to lunch.”
Chris, standing at his side, was amazed
to hear him grit his teeth, amazed to
think those big brown-burnt hands were
itching to kill. All the same, it was dashed
unpleasant to think these Asiatics carried
resentment so far, made a fetish of revenge.
Untrustworthy. How he loathed that, even
in colored people from whom you couldn’t
expect much! Poor old Horton, he was
down in the mouth about it! And he was
a good chap—-nothing untrustworthy about
him. A good friend, even if a bit nasty
as an enemy.
A smart little car, a dark-red sports
model, came whizzing and tooting up be-
hind the two men as they strolled along
towards the pub. It drew up with a squeak-
ing of brakes. Peter Fordyce swung im-
petuously over the unopened door.
“Well,” he cried, “how’d it go?”
Chris resigned himself to hearing another
tirade; but Horton, as though tired of the
whole affair, contented himself with a few
brief and lurid comments. “Anyhow,” he
finished, “where were you?”
“Tried to get along, but had an air-mail
to get off and it kept me. Then I was
on my way round, late a,s it was, when I
ran into Goer and couldn’t get away.”
“Only Goer?” questioned Chris, smiling.
“No, worse luck! A girl as well—and
I’ve been drinking squash in the tea-shop!
A bathful of the stuff. Hop in and I’ll
run you down to get something to take
the taste away Chris, I want to tell
you something,” he muttered as Horton
went across to the car. “Guess who came
in as we were sitting there. Queenie!
And of course she had to be introduced to •
June. She sat down with us, bold as brass,
and started talking to June—one girl to
another, you know. It made me sick. And
Goer didn’t seem to care a damn. Of
course they’d naturally meet in this place,
but I did think he needn’t have been so
openly friendly!”
Chris raised his eyebrows. It Was exactly
the sort of thing likely to happen in
Broome; but he had no desire to say so,
for fear of hurting Fordyce. So “A bit
thick,” he murmured sympathetically.
Extraordinary way people behave some-
times. You never could tell He walked
to the car thinking of an incident—it had
occurred soon after his own arrival—which
had made him realise he couldn’t treat
the inhabitants of the pearling town like
normal human beings; they lived too far
from the rest of the world, were so self-
absorbed that they made their own set of
values and queer ones at that—“ Every one
gets a bit mad here,” old Monty had told
him. The trouble was you could never
tell which way the cat would jump; he
had certainly never imagined that fellow
Smith would object when he called on his
charming little English wife, after he’d
been invited to look in and talk about the
Old Country. And yet—Heavens, what a
scene t-here’d been! All because he left a
card with a London club address—he meant
to go home next year, or the one after,
and he had thought that Mrs. Smith would
be able, if she wished, to look him up when
she and her husband went for a trip—and
the great ass had made the poor little
woman return the card! Oh, there had
been the devil of a row over it, and now
Mrs. Smith always looked the other way
when she saw him coming! Wherefore he
wasn’t very surprised, even if what gossips
said was true, that Goer didn’t mind June
being friends with Queenie; or, conversely,
that Fordyce didn’t relish it at all. Rum
place, Broome. Peter was obviously
smitten, Chris thought, thankful for the
first time that the image of Lettice made
an invincible shield for his own suscepti-
bilities. It would be awful to have a love-
affair in Broome—what a tongue-wagging
there would be!
“I’m going outside again to-night,” he
told Peter, “now that old Horton has won
his case.”
“Won it!” exclaimed Horton, outraged.
“You might stay in for a spell,” urged
Fordyce. “It’s ages since you were in. A
day or two would do you good.”
“No,” replied Chris, setting his lips, light
leaping to his eyes. “I want to get back.”
He could not mention a hope never far
absent—even now a pearl might be await-
ing him out on his lugger, if his Crew
were honest! All the sight of June Coer’s
young fane had done to Chris was to
sharpen the edge of his desire to make
good, to rush home and claim Lettice before
any barrier of marriage intervened.
Of all June’s presence had done to Peter
Fordyce that young man was not yet fully
aware. He only knew he felt impatient
when Horton started joking and larking with
one of the barmaids and tried to drag him
into it.
CHAPTER VI.
At the Pearl-cleaner’s.
June, filled with shy young enthusiasm,
threw herself into the social round of the
town—she liked to imagine she made a
perfect hostess for her father. Even among
five hundred European inhabitants there
were different circles; circles which met and
overlapped in places, such as the picture-
show, where the whites all greeted each
other, smoking and gossiping as if the place
were’ a club, although Asiatics sat fenced
off to one side, and in front squatted a
crowd of giggling natives; or at dances,
which followed each other quickly in the
hall so long as the cool weather lasted;
or at the football matches, where the more
select rubbed shoulders happily enough with
the lesser fry. A few people never went
to each other’s bungalows, and there were
others who could be depended upon to
go through periods of what children call
“not playing speaks.”
But June never discovered that quite a
number of women came to her father’s
house, at her request, who had certainly
not been there before. Goer, of course,
knew it, and played on it. ’Though at first
he had, contrary to Fordyce’s opinion, been
slightly put out by Queenie’s determination
to cultivate June, he rapidly overcame his
uneasiness—he could trust Queenie, she was
no fool—and soon he was enjoying the
situation, especially when the women openly
ignored it; a fact which sometimes made
him chuckle at thought of all they must-
say behind his back.
“Take it or leave it,” was a. favorite ex-
pression of Goer’s. And his immense con-
ceit made him apply the tag to his own
person. He had no intention of changing
either morals or manners to suit anybody
but himself.
His attitude towards his daughter re-
mained proudly possessive; he had said he
wished her to be happy, but he could not
imagine that any girl who had all the
spending silver she needed, youth, good
looks, and plenty of men to amuse her,
could possibly be anything else. The differ-
ence in his own behavior, which so hurt
June, he would have been the last to see.
Perhaps the girl herself exaggerated, for
on the rare occasions of his visits to Mel-
bourne she had never seen him for long
at a time. Certainly he had remained a
romantic figure, a breezy hero who blew in.
bought chocolates, took his family on brief
delirious excursions: of necessity the
different surroundings, the trappings of a
big city, civilised, cultured, made even Goer
less obtrusive, more careful in speech, more
conventional in thought. But in Broome
he was at home, as much a swaggering
buccaneer as any of the crew who sailed
with William Dampier and named the bay
for their good ship Roebuck.
And he had made a place for himself
which many would have been glad to
occupy. Some of the women might cut
him, but he was well received at the Resi-
dency, whatever Mrs. Tweedie might pri-
vately think. And he told himself that
that probably wasn’t too bad; for the lady
had not lived long in Broome before he
had discovered she dearly loved a com-
pliment, and Captain Goer was the last
man to hesitate about telling a woman she
looked beautiful, if he thought it would do
him any good.
As the weeks slipped away, June became
less critical. Her father she found to be
a power in the land, even if at times she
was offended by his crudeness; and it was
so easy to acquiesce when she longed to
admire. Other people didn’t seem to notice,
or, if they did, thought nothing of it. And
the glamor of Broome encompassed her.
She soon grew accustomed to hear the
women she met moan about the climate
and the difficulties with servants, of whom
there were none but natives, and the way
one’s clothes got ruined, and the way the
butcher just sent any part of bullock or
sheep he felt inclined and so on through
an endless list of domestic inconveniences.
But these matters slid from June. From
her verandah, she never tired of gazing at
the sea, jade-green and mysterious, or of
listening to the swish of the in-cbming tide,
the murmur of the ebb. She never wearied
of wandering round Chinatown, where
Chinese and Japanese children in European
clothes played in the streets, calling to each
other in a queer mixture of languages. She
loved to poke about in the cool stores,
looking for such articles of ornament or
use as had' been left from the old days
when the storekeepers stocked the exotic
lovely goods of their own countries, in-
stead of the prosaic products of Western
manufacture. She loved to talk to Ah Chi,
the pearl-cleaner, whose tiny shop was
crowded with blister carvings, exquisite
fragments of mother-of-pearl, and with
strange pieces of jewellery which had come
to that resting place in strange ways: out-
side swung three, golden balls, inside lay


A
M
9m,
¥
Wrl
m
3»
•V
Made from the
whole, rich, sun-
ripened wheat
grain.
They are a per-
fect health food,
extremely easy
to digest. When
eaten for break-
fast they give
you a light, ener-
getic feeling in
the busy morn-
ing hours.
Try them with
butter, cheese,
jam or honey.
Manufactured
by
William
Arnott
Limited,
The Biscuit
Specialists
of sixty-four
years’
experience.
ARNonm
FAMOUS
SHREDDBD
BISCUITS
Made in
Australia,
Financed by
Australians,
and produced
by highly
trained
Australian
workers.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR ARNOTT’S
AND MAKE SURE YOU GET THEM.
15 V | s >t
°*?0”
#
£
~/ce
3*
A
6
NO ICE REQUIRED!
VENUS COLD
SAFE
NO ICE REQUIRED.
Water circulates from tank on top. Keeps
your food fresk and palatable. Standard
size 1 sin. x 1 sin. x 20in. inside safe. We
manufacture them—Q.P.S. direct factory
price, 37/6. Also Venus Milk and Butter
Cooler. On same principle—but' smaller —
9in. x 1 lin. x Min. inside, 20/-.
AliSO RAINWATER GOODS AT FACTORY
PRICES
We also manufacture all Rainwater Goods and
Troughing. You get direct factory prices.
Write for full list.
T\NK MATERIAL,.— For lOOOgal., 62/6; 2000ga1., £5/10/-. GALV. ROLL-TOP
—Rest nualitv sft 6in37/6.' If Duco Enamelled inside. 10/- extra.
mDol Capping 26g. 12in , i/S; loin., l/6 per 6ft. length. SPOUTING. 26g.,
hn 11,! • sin l/.-lin. 1/3 per 6ft. length. STUMP CAPS.— Moulded, 10in„ 5/6
dozen. THE BUSH SHOWER BATH, 10/-. ROOF LIGHTS AND VENTILATORS.—
Dead lights, 6ft., 39/-; Opening, 42/6. All sizes made from 6ft. to ,)tt.
On Barb Wire, Fencing Wire, Hinge Joint Fencing, “K” Wire and
Netting, Chain Fencing, Autoscrew Droppers, Hibiscus Steel
Fencing Posts and New Era Separators
Freight is Paid Free to Maryborough, Bundaberg, Gladstone,
°Rockhampton, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
nrr BARGAINS IN REJECT GALV. CORRUGATED IRON.—A further shipment of
BIG per sheet; and 45 tons of Bft. size, 2/6 sheet.
All new and perfectly bright. Send cash with order. Suitable for
Fowlhouses, Sheds, Fencing or Cheap Buildings.
nAnn wirt—Wp are thp only manufacturers of Barb Wire in Queensland, and
BARB WI RE-We e aie u the w Only i manu pHce from 17/6 coil of 4 40 yards.
Write for full list.
PLAIN WIRE.—We also are sole agents for Hibiscus Plain Wire—no other firm
prin suddlv tlic sTGiiuinc Hibiscus —therefore, oxclei diiect. 8 & . 1 ®
cwt.TMg High Tension Hibiscus tested, 1500 yards n a coil, £26 ton
or 27/- ewt.; 124 g. High Tension, Standard Australian, £2O ton 01 21/- cwt.
GALVANISED WATER PIPING.—SmaII lots, all sizes, less 35 p.c. and 10 p.c.
“K” WIRE.—On “K” Wire we allow 25 p.c. discount. On Farm Gates, 10 p.c. and
5 p.c. off any maker’s list.
STOVES.—Dover No. 7, «7/6; No. 8, 77/6. Complete with piping.
REMEMBER WE NEVER SALES TAX ° N ANY ° F
DRAPERY we^ ,r ° U p?ice^ I fo^^T^rou^ers/IV3
pair, or Jodhpurs, Price 13/9, post free.
SssHSrlS SHSS
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty.,Ltd.
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
those varied pledges, collected from every
corner of the eEirth. But best of nil June
loved the dim shell-sheds over against the
creek, where she could stand gazing through
the sea-doors, listening to the calls of
colored men, watching white-winged luggers
sail out to sea in search of pearls.
And there were so many other things to
do. And so much time to do them in.
No one ever seemed to be in a hurry.
June was asked everywhere. Tennis and
pictures; supper parties after the pictures,
when they trooped up Sheba-lane to Wing’s
chop-suey 'shop and ate long-soup; tea-
parties and little dances on bungalow ver-
andahs to either gramophone or wireless;
picnics to Entrance Point, and, as the days
grew hotter, bathing parties out to the
wide smooth beach behind the town; even-
ing parties when overhead the stars glit-
tered or a moon swamped the world in
white radiance and phosphorous gleamed in
the curling surf.
So flowed life l’ound June, and like a
warm undercurrent ran ceaseless talk,
matter-of-fact to all but the girl, of pearls
and pearl-shell and divers; and all the time,
in and out, came men brown and hard
from the sun sweeping across the bosom of
the Indian Ocean.
Peter Fordyce discovered the land end
of his business required a great deal of
personal, attention that winter. He who had
always so loved the sea, who had seized
every opportunity and made the slimmest
of pretexts serve for getting outside on the
schooner, until it had become a by-word
that the men shell-opening for Fordyce
and Sons could confidently expect a fort-
nightly mail now fast laid himself open to
being dubbed a verandah pearler; he even
sent the schooner out whilst he stayed
ashore.
But he received small encouragement for
his growing interest in June. The girl
flirted innocently enough with him, but her
attitude was no warmer than towards half
a dozen others. She was so young. She
didn’t Wa.nt to be serious, Peter thought,
dismayed, for ever laughingly kept at arm’s
length. And neither she did. She wanted
just to enjoy the freedom of being grown-
up, the power she suddenly discovered lay
at the disposal of an attractive woman.
Any ripples crossing the smooth shimmering
sea of her emotions were not caused by
Peter, who never guessed that the inquiries
he answered about the pearling fleet, the
remarkable interest June displayed in every
detail of existence outside, came, not as he
joyfully supposed, from an intense interest
in what meant life to him, but because
never a day passed without June’s wonder-
ing what Mr. Kent was doing, without
recollection of his pleasant drawling voice,
without hope that surely he must soon
come in.
Romance and glamor of the pearling port
enthralled June, romance and glamor of
Christopher Kent, searching for pearls, wove
for her an enchanting idyll.
Yet she could find out so little about
him. “Oh, Chris!” laughed the men good-
humoredly, whenever she tried to ques-
tion. Even Mrs. Tweedie, the magistrate’s
wife, with her penchant for knowing every-
thing, could only tell June what June
already knew. “Mr. Montgomery might
know more,” she said on one occasion when
the girl had skilfully led her on to talk
of Chris. “He has a remarkable fund of
information. And he comes from a good
family himself, my dear, though one would
hardly think so. The things that man has
done! Ran away* from his wife, they say—
and really I can quite believe it. But some-
times he is very amusing and I am sorry
he can never be persuaded to join in our
social life.”
June did not particularly want to ask
Monty. Her antagonism had softened con-
siderably; no one, she thought, certainly
no young person, could eat three meals a
day with Mr. Montgomery and not laugh
at his ridiculous comments. Also she had
noticed that, although not even her father
was proof against his baiting, he made no
attempt to tease her. Sometimes she won-
dered if that was because he did not like
her; but his twinkling grey eyes, which
had a knack of glancing for her appreci-
ation, denied such thought.
It came to her suddenly one day, as
she was walking slowly along, swinging a
huge paper umbrella, that she resented
Uncle Monty’s interest because he knew
too much. He seemed able to see right
inside, to sense just what you were think-
ing.
This sudden illumination ended in a swift
decision that if such were the case it was
wiser to be friends with him. If he could
tell exactly what you were feeling, his know-
ledge might equally well apply to others.
And three months in Broome had taught
June that everyone went to Mr. Mont-
gomery when it was a case of wanting help
—master-pearlers in difficulties with refrac-
tory crews sought him, and waitresses who
had ordered dresses from Perth and weren’t
able to pay for them. What a lot of things
one learnt in Broome!
She felt pleasantly sophisticated, a woman
of the world; she practised what she
imagined to be an ironical smile.
“I was coming to find you,” hailed a
light voice.
“Queenie!” excaimed June, quickening
her step to meet the girl she had grown to
regard as her best friend.
How nice she looked! Smooth little
waves of dark hair, showing beneath a
white hat, framed Queenie’s pert and glow-
ing face, her dark roving eyes, the provo-
cation of her glance. Her slimness was
upt to give a misleading impression, to
make people think her wiry, undeveloped,
when actually both form and mentality were
unusually mature for a girl of her years.
Her slenderness was the fausse maigre of
French parlance; her low breasts, her
assurance might have belonged to a woman
twice her age. Beside such dark vivacious
energy, June looked almost fragile. They
were neither of them entirely unconscious
of the contrast they presented. Possibly
that fact had somewhat influenced the
growth of their intimacy; they touched
common ground in that each still regarded
herself objectively.
Queenie had spent most of her nineteen
years in Broome, but she possessed a poise
some women are able to acquire in even
the most unpromising places. Nowhere in
the world would she have felt at a loss.
By her fifteenth year she had decided that,
let people say what they liked, sex ruled
the earth. Gaily, confident in her secret
opinion, she would have set out to amuse
herself wherever life set her.
June knew nothing of this inarticulate
philosophy; but occasionally she wondered
why Queenie laughed at remarks wherein
she herself found no amusement.
Sometimes she resented the other girl’s,
“Oh, but you’re such a kid.” But most of
the hours they spent together passed in
pleasant discussion of clothes, patterns, the
latest novels. To be sure, June found
her new friend singularly uninterested in the
world-shaking discussions in which she and
her companions had indulged at school,
but she came to the conclusion that was
merely because Queenie, having lived only
in the North, naturally knew very little
about life. There the matter ended, be-
cause Queenie’s surprising knowledge failed
to prevent her from taking girlish interest
in fashions, or to diminish, as yet, her
attitude,, at least among women, of what
Mr. Montgomery always dubbed “Inno-
cence abroad.” \
For the first time June, already deter-
mined to see Uncle Monty down at the
-shell-sheds, felt slightly irked by Queenie’s
presence. She wondered, as they sauntered
towards Chinatown, what excuse she could
frame to go on alone. She was still won-
dering when the other girl suggested a visit
to Ah Chi—she wanted to buy some pearl-
shell teaspoons to send away as a present.
Ah Chi was delighted to see the young
ladies, not so much because he knew he
would sell some trifle, as because the old
Chinese was a master-craftsman possessed
by a passion for beauty. It pleased him to
behold anything well done; and almost,
although not quite, were the young missies
as satisfactory to gaze upon as a parcel
of pearls.
The teaspoons were quickly forgotten
when he began telling stories about his
stock and the histories of his carvings. He
took the girls into the tiny office behind
the shop, where he had brought many a
pearl to perfection. They had to huddle
back against the deal table whilst he opened
the safe. And presently the light from a
high-barred window danced over a fair
head and a dark bent in delight and envy
over packet after packet of pearls, and
capered on the lined visage of Ah Chi
looking on in a species of mild ecstasy.
After a time he moved back to the safe,
and June, glancing up, beheld him gazing
intently at something he had just brought
forth from its protective depths. As he
stared he moved his hand slowly from side
to side.
“What have you got there?” she ques-
tioned, curious.
“Ah, missie,” said lie, “this one number-
one of all my jewels.” He held out a
yellow hand.
Queenie jumped up. “The diamond!'
she cried. “June, you’ve not seen it yet.
Tell her the story, Chi.”
“Why, it must be worth a fortune,” ex-
claimed June, taking the jewel from the
Chinaman’s hand. “It’s an ear-ring! And
as big as a seventy-grain pearl. Where is
the other?”
“That’s what Chi is dying to know, isn t
it?” said Queenie. “Go on, tell her.”
(To he continued next week.)
Cicadas.
Locusts in the lightwood trees, in the yellow
noonlight,
Keening to the hillside, piping to the
plain,
Shrilling till the afternoon meets the early
moonlight,
And the heat-haze sinks to shadow and
they sing no more again.
They will not sing again.
Green cicadas calling where the busliland
airs are burning
Hot with aromatic scents, sweet with
minty smells;
Heavy when, the lazy creek through the reeds
is turning,
Turning, always turning, where the bell-
birds sound their bells,
Their silvery elfin bells.
Locusts in the lightwoods, locusts by the
river;
Green fairy fiddles by the warm, slow
wave;
The seed is on the wattles and the heat-haze
is a-quiver,
And summer comes in sighing over spring’s
green grave,
Her petal-powdered grave.
Gay green harpers in your high green havens,
Shrill your summer challenge, tell the
sleepy world
That summer comes in marching under hot
pale heavens,
And springtime is defeated and her lovely
flags are furied.
Her bright flags furled!
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BIEL.L.& Qutd.
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: « on«ge Street. Sydnef.
THE EXAMINER, The Newspaper of Northern
LAUNCESTON.
Tasmania,
NOW
IN ITS
91st YEAR.
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
66 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Buy the best /
Australian
made
Super
Quality
fa
ft
r A ror
<4B leaves
Easy rolled**"
no better sold
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Four starts, four wins, is Magnetics
record for November and December. He
made his score four in the Villiers Stakes at
Randwick on Saturday, and did it in dashing
style. Reckoned to be back to the form
which enabled her to carry off the Villiers
and Carrington two years ago, Pavilion chal-
lenged Magnetic for favoritism, and was the
only one to give him a race. Sly Boots,
Lucre and Waugoola were the early leaders,
and Pavilion was always well up. She came
through in the straight, but with a brilliant
dash Magnetic caught her, and in a few
strides, as it seemed, had put two lengths
between them; nor did McCarten have to
apply the whip. Magnetic got to the end of
the mile in 1.38. Trevallion, from a bad
position at the barrier, came fast from the
ruck to get third place ; Waugoola was fourth
and the rest (there were 15 altogether) were
strung out. Tote divs. -for 10s. were £l 19s.
6d. and £1 Is. Magnetic, £1 Is. Pavilion and
£1 16s. Trevallion ; in each case the machine
gave better odds than the pencillers offered.
In his present form Magnetic would be a
match for almost anything in Australia,
Peter Pan excepted, at a mile; and he may
go the Tatt.’s Cup distance. He has been in
several stables during his five years on the
turf. S. R. Lamond, one of the youngest
trainers at Randwick, now leases and trains
him, and richly deserves the profit that has
accrued to him from the improvement he has
effected in his horse.
The tote paid noble dividends for 10s. on
Prismatic in the first division of the Novice
Handicap—£l9B 3s. 6d. straightout and £24
18s. 6d. for a place. It would have been hard
to get 33 to 1 in the ring, impossible in the
case of some alleged bookmakers. Prismatic
has raced over hurdles, but is only young
at the game, and had shown some pace at
Randwick in a Jumpers’ Flat. The surpris-
ing thing is that he is trained by Frank
Bert : * What's the betting, on the
next test ?"
GtEIRT ; "I THINK VJE'U- VMIMV
Bert: "What makes you think
SO »"
<3ERt:*V\/hy; doesn't thw horrid old
Melbourne always do _T H e
EXACT OPPOSITE To SypNSV z .
McGrath, so successful this year with Peter
Pan and Denis Boy; there is generally a bit
of money for horses from a stable that is
in the boom. There were only two s.o.
tickets on Prismatic, One was taken by
Town-clerk Middlemiss, of Bathurst; in fact,
he had 10s. each way. He is a Digger, and,
when photographed, protested with a grin:
“The wife’ll see the picture, and then I’ll
be stung for half of it.”
Wexford, winner of the Nursery Handi-
cap, returned £ll 15s. (and £2 19s. 6d.)
for 10s. This race immediately preceded
Prismatic’s, and if there were a doubles
tote at Rand wick (as there is on Adelaide
and Perth courses) and if Wexford and Pris-
matic had been picked, the return to the
lucky punter would have been magnificent.
Wexford also captured the December Stakes
on Monday. Again he was so little regarded
by punters that his divs. were £6 os. 6d. and
£1 17s. 6d,
The Holiday Handicap looked so open that
McShortodds signified his willingness to take
6 to 1 the field. Stonebrook, Holey and Birth-
day Present were backed at that price; nor
did Never Despair, Phlare, Milantheon and
Pretzel lack support. The outsider of the
party was Inducement, and the old fellow
nearly brought off a surprise. But Stone-
brook finished strongly to cut him out of it
by a head; and spectators put their hands
together in appreciation of the horse’s con-
sistency and of O’Sullivan’s skilful riding;
it was their third successive victory. Topical
was a good third; Never Despair made most
of the running but failed to come on. The
time for the 10 furlongs was 2,5 f; divs. were
£3 ss. 6d. and £1 9s. 6d. Stonebrook, £5 16s.
6d. Inducement and £1 13s. Topical.
F. Jones flew down from Queensland to
ride Polly Speck in the Highweight Handi-
cap. From No. 13 position he drove his
mount (favorite at 4 to 1) to the front and
tried to keep him there. Polly Speck tried
gallantly to accomplish his severe task, but
Port Said’s finishing run, nicely timed by
O’Sullivan, proved too much for him; Bold
Boy was third. This nag once beat Rogilla
at Rosehill. He is not as good as that per-
formance indicated —he was a bit lucky that
day—but now he is in form again he should
win a race or two for Cook. Port Said’s
victory completed a highly-profitable day for
McShortodds; he went out at tens.
Stonebrook’s performance in the Holiday
Handicap looked a good trial for the Summer
Cup, and it was expected that lie would go
out favorite for that race, but Agincourt
shared the distinction with him; both were
at fives, stonebrook did much better than
Agincourt, but he was fated to be beaten
into third place. He did not fail for lack
of stamina; in fact, he came with a rattle
on the rails at the finish ; but he was hemmed
in most of the way. Pretzel (7 to 1) made
a gallant effort to win under liis Bst. 121 b.,
a substantial weight for a rather light-framed
four-year-old. Miss Nottava (12 to 1)
seemed to have his measure at the distance,
but Darby Munro got another kick out of
Pretzel and the judge could not separate
them. Miss Nottava had run a good race
in the Yilliers, but had never before been
tried over a distance. Little more than a
pony, she is very game, and Weiss deserves
credit for the well-judged race he rode. Of
the others (there were 14 starters). First
Balloon, Milantheon and Lavi.ngton did best.
Only two actual favorites won at the meet-
ing, though McShortodds grumbled, as usual.
Closing Time (2 to 1) had things all his
own way in the Chisholm Handicap, being
followed home by Vista (9 to 2) and Tom
Pinch (5 to 1), the only others backed to
any extent. J. T. Jamieson owns and trains
Closing Time, who is very speedy—he
equalled the Randwick record for six fur-
longs, lmin. 10|sec. —but he is not a robust
type.
Jj! ❖ ❖ *
For Tattersall’s meeting at Randwick: —
Carrington Stakes: Bon Cretien; next,
Closing Time.
Pace Welter: Trevallion; next, Ranch'ero.
Denman Handicap: Magnetic; next,
Phlare.
Tatt.’s Club Cup: Magnetic; next, Stone-
brook.
Tindall’s luck seems to have turned i»
Melbourne. He put in solidly on liis filly
Lady Syghton, by Violoncello —-Syghton, in
the Two-year-old Handicap at Moonee Valley,
and had the satisfaction of seeing her win.
Bridal Path made a fine effort under her
9st. 101 b., but she had 241 b. more than Tin-
dall’s filly and found the concession too great.
F. E. Shillabeer, who also bets spiritedly
when he thinks the occasion warrants it, col-
lected on Muscovy in the Three-year-old
Handicap. Muscovy (Drake —Bandean) was
one of four horses at sto 1; he romped home.
The bookmakers had their turn in the
Highweight Handicap, which went to Dis-
tant, a gelding by Poitrel —Visibility. There
was so little support for him that he started
at 16 to 1. Still more profitable to the callers
of odds was the result of the Welter Plate,
in which Kerry (33 to 1) came home lengths
ahead of the field. It was though that 9st.
101 b. would anchor him in the mud, but he
relished the going.
* * * *
Again it has to be said that if Harry
Gavin had moved away smartly from the
barrier he would have won a good race for
F. W. Hoysted. At Ascot the Eurythmic
gelding lost lengths at the start and then
finished within half a length of the smart;
Green Moth. In the Christmas Handicap
at Caulfield Harry Gavin was not sighted
until the straight was reached; then he came
home like the wind. But Opera Bag had
secured an advantage which proved decisive;
he beat Harry Gavin by a head, with St.
Ardent (winner of the 1929 Newmarket Han-
dicap) a close third and Ibrani fourth. This
was a great betting race; it was 6 to 1 St.
Ardent, 7 to 1 Waltzing Lily. 8 to 1 Water-
line, Green Moth, Harry Gavin and Ibrani,
10 to 33 to 1 others. Opera Bag is a four-
year-old gelding by Windbag (who has been
a wonderfu-l success at the stud) out of Light
Opera. He was 20 to lin the ring; the tote
paid £9 16s. and £2 10s. 6d. for ss.
The Hopetoun Handicap field wasn’t much
class. Cupidity was a 9-to-4 favorite, but
he ran a poor race; Pendennis (7 to 1)
lasted long enough to win from Mollison’s
brother Calmond (12 to 1), who put in a
strong finish, with Lord Whittier third. Pen-
donnis is an aged gelding by Crowdennis —
Aberlady, owned by Cameron; O’Brien had
him in a good position all the way.
* * * *
Knox went across from Sydney to ride
Olympian (Pantheon —Flimsy) in the W.A.
Derby and the Perth Cup. Favorite, at 4
to 1 on, for the Derby, Olympian landed the
money and cut the time record for the race,
doing the mile and a half in 2min. 33fsee.
Some Perth enthusiasts pronounce him as
good as Peter Pan, but he is not quite that,
though a classy colt. Second Wind, another
odds-on favorite, added a success in the
Perth Stakes to his long list. Taking him
back to the West was a good move, for there
is a fair amount of w.f.a. money to be picked
up there, and the old fellow is well able
to shoulder the burdens he is getting in han-
dicaps ; and, apart from Olympian, the com-
pany is not up to much.
* * * * '
“The Card”: The ingenuity of the tipster
is worthy of a better cause. In Melbourne
some of the boys were lumbered on a charge
of conducting a common gaming house, and
were convicted in the police court with heavy
fines. An appeal to General Sessions resulted
in an an acquittal. The accused, while con-
ducting a tipping business, were scrupulously
careful to give their tips verbally and not
in writing or print. ’Sonah agreed with
counsel that this did not constitute an
offence, and the accused departed to tip again
another day.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
British champion A 1 Foreman, scaling
about 9st. 21b., gave Bobby Blay a stone
or so and a bad beating at Sydney Stadium
on Monday night. With a perfectly-timed
right to the chin he had the Australian out
on his feet in the second, and had they been
three-minute rounds it would have been all
up with Blay. Blay fought fiercely in the
third, however, and won the fourth by such'
a margin that the Englishman played safe
until the ninth arrived. Foreman then took
charge and earned a decision that was unani-
mously endorsed by 12,000 spectators, many
of whom had hooted him for delaying the
fight 25 minutes: he demanded (and got)
his money before he would enter the ring.
He is the best fighter of his weight seen in
a Sydney ring since the great days of Thorn.
Alby Roberts (lOst. 51b.) apparently had
Russ Critcher (lOst. 91b.) on the verge of
another collapse in the sixth round of a sup-
porting contest, when the brown boxer was
disqualified for butting.
Ins and Outs
After two days’ idleness owing to rain,
Victoria and N.S.W. began their second
Sheffield Shield meeting in Melbourne on
Monday. Batting all day after Woodfull
had obligingly won the toss and sent them in,
N.S.W. had 348 up for seven wickets at
stumps. The feature of the innings was a
score of 157 by Bradman, who got a great
reception from the crowd. Starting very
carefully, he warmed up after passing the
century and punished the bowlers heavily,
practically throwing his wicket away at the
finish. A very dead outfield slowed the ball
up considerably, else his score would cer-
tainly have been over the 200 mark. Like
McCabe (48), who was content to take
some batting practice for the Test, Bradman
dealt confidently with Alexander’s fast
bumpers on the leg until he went to a
splendid catch at deep mid-leg by the ex-
Westralian Bromley, who fielded grandly ail
day. Fingleton played a great opening
shot for 85 ; Alexander got him l.b.w. None
of the others did much. Alexander, with 3 for
82, bowled like a tiger all day. Ironmonger
was steady and got the wickets of Bradman,
Kippax and Hird for 76. Fleetwood-Smith
again disappointed.
In Adelaide, Queensland took another
hiding, going down to South Australia by
10 wickets. The visitors’ first innings
yielded 154, Bensted and Marshall each
making 33. Grimmett took 6 for 55. South
Australia replied with 352, Nitschke playing
a glorious knock for 94, though Lonergan
topped this with a well-made 145. Oxenham
(3-73), Brew (3-115) and Bensted (2-8)
took the wickets. Queensland’s second shot
ended for 219, thanks to a stand by Oxen-
bam (39) and Mossop (54). Lee (4-31)
and Waite (3-66) were the best of the
bowlers.
* * , , ’ -17, i„. .
The second match between England and
Tasmania at Hobart degenerated into a
farce. It was delayed by ram and Jardine
wanted a tuither postponement., ®
to P la y by the umpires, he put himse and
Ames on to bowl when Tass e opened the
innings. There was nothing wrong with the
pitch, though the outfield was dead and Tas-
mania closed at 103 for 5 wickets to let the
spectators see the Englishmen batting, lhe
visitors -ored 330 for 7 wickets Leylan
topping with 65. Tassie lost 4 tor 89 m tlie
second spell, Bowes getting the wickets, and
the 'aw:». Tasman,a jrepoft-
J the ntutude of the English captain
tne J a, cl uo .
“Laiisdowne”; It beats me why “Icono-
c j agt » s h ou ld argue that Test matches are
productive of bad feeling between England
this country because (among other
tMn } the “Manchester Guardian” refers
, An«itrnlinn<j as “flip enemv” (B
\ A /{ 2 /'32). No doubt “our friend the
pnemy” would have been better, but what
pother about a word t From much reading
of cricket comme ntary these last few years
j- have deduced that the more “hostility”
there is in the bowling the more praiseworthy
it ig> And doesn > t some modern Hafiz enjoin
upon the batsman, striding out from the
pavilion, to
Though the man with'foe bat irr'MDw, the mar,
with the ball is a foe.”
Of course, lie is a foe, however valued a one,
and every two contending teams are enemies,
however gallant ones, till the mimic battle
is lost or won or drawn,
* * * ...
“All In” : Stan Sly, who, top-scored, with
67 n. 0., for Southern Districts in the match
against the Englishmen at Wagga (N.S.W.),
is getting amongst the runs again. In an
O’Farrell Cup match, for Wagga against
Junee he made 208 n.o. The score is a record
for the competition and for the Wagga
ground, the previous best being 207. It s
a pity Stan doesn’t come to Sydney,
( Continued on next page.)
*
The programme of the 97th Anniversary
R ega tta on Port Jackson includes ten
eveutS) for boats and yachts of all
c i asses . There is the usual complement of
rowing and sculling races, including the
annual tussles in heavy boats for the naval
trainees. The Blue Funnel liner Themis-
tocles will be tlie flagship, and the sailing
entries close on January 4.
* * * *
The annua i athletic meeting between Vic-
toria an d N.S.W. at Sydney Cricket Ground
saw the Ma State victorious by 61 points to
54. Seven Australian and eight State records
were broken. Outstanding items were Hamp-
son’s (N.S.W.) 100 yards in 9min. 7-10 sec.,
only 1-10 of a second worse than Carlton’s
Australian figures; anew pole-vault record
of 12ft. lOin. by Victorian Woodhouse;
hurdler McLardy’s (Vic.) 15 l-10sec. for
the 120 yards hurdles, and the 880 relay,
won by Victoria in lmin. 27 3-ssec., an Aus-
tralian record.
* $ * *
. . ~ ra . mr i
+ Australia made a good start m the second
tennis Test against America m Melbourne,
P * a J J*;I ayed Po I ]. Monday, when C<
foi ' d beat Allison 6-3, 6-4 and Hopman came
out victorious from a hard battle with I
scores brang 64, 1-6 8-6. Gledhill do
Sproule 6-3, 3-6, 6-0, adas Alison and
Ryn beat Sproule and McGrath in the >
doubles. 6-4, t- 9, 6-3, 6-4, the day ended
the sides two rubbers each, America taking
games to 59 by Australia.


EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a
surprisingly large amount of security for your dependants in the event ot your
death. By taking out an endowment policy you can insure against your own and
your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Most Solidly Progressive of the Younger Offices.
Has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 30/3/’32.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. MOONEY, Managing Director.
P. J. RYAN, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith, Resident Sec.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the /States.
Plum Razor Guardi
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and Jin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/- each, post free.
&f,e PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle ,21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case-
Black 86/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—fin. and |in.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Ins and Outs
The Sheffield Shield match between Vic-
toria and Queensland in Melbourne ended in
an easy win for the home side by an innings
and 139 runs. Victoria amassed 339 (Darl-
ing 128), Oxenham bagging 4 for 54 off
28 overs, 10 of which were maidens, Queens-
land could only get 74 in the second spell,
Ironmonger taking 7 for 13. In South
Australia N.S.W. collapsed before the bowl-
ing of Wall (4-31) and Grimmett .(2-41)
when it had only to make 86 to win. It
cost seven wickets to get the runs. At
Launceston the Englishmen won from Tas-
mania by an innings and 126 runs, Mitchell
taking 11 for 144 in the match.
“Five Ways” : At the end of the Queens-
land-Vic. match the Bananalanders sympa-
thised with the iEsopian gentleman who
warmed a viper in liis bosom with regret-
table consequences. For Ironmonger hails
from Queensland, where he used to play
club cricket with Ipswich, and later with
Queensland in pre-Sheffield Shield days.
Melbourne then claimed him, but he was
not a success, for he was permitted to go
to Sydney, where he figured with the Bal-
main club. Later he returned to Victoria
and there made good as a bowler.
“Aigburth”: Like his C. 0., Warner, Jar-
dine evidently suffers from lapses of memory.
Interviewed in Tasmania about his bowlers
bumping the ball down at the man, he said
that apparently this form of attack “origi-
nated with the Australian newspapers; we
do not know very much about it.” Yet Jardine
was captain of Surrey barely five months
ago when bumping tactics by Bowes caused
Hobbs, who was batting, to make an unpre-
cedented scene in protest, while lie was
vigorously supported by the barrackers. Also
“Plum” Warner exhausted the dictionary to
write a newspaper article protesting against
the shocking and unsportsmanlike perform-
ance by Bowes, while he put the boot into
Yorkshire for permitting it. Yet “we do not
know very much about it!”
* , it it it
“Canny Lad”: Hard times or no, the
brass is beginning to swell the socks of the
English cricket team and the Board of Con-
trol, to say nothing of the State associations.
For the first Test in Sydney £14,854 was
taken at the gates. About 10 per cent, went
to the Cricket Ground trustees and £12,127
to the N.S.W.C.A.; of this the English-
men’s share was about £5500. Various ex-
penses cut the N.S.W. cheque down to £5765.
Twenty-five per cent, of it will go to the
Board of Control, but at the end of the
season the Board will distribute its share
from the Tests among the States in propor-
tion to their representation on the Board.
* * i= *
“Woogaroo”: In a junior match in one
of the Sydney suburbs the ball was hit over
the boundary. A diminutive urchin who
was on the spot took a magnificent catch,
and vanished with the ball. They had to
wait half an hour before another could be
procured. Writer recalls a similar incident
at Goodna Mental Hospital, near Brisbane,
years ago. His club visited GOodna for a
game in which several patients were in-
cluded. One of these was fielding deep long-
on on the river side when he took a brilliant
catch. The applause so unnerved him that,
throwing down the ball, he took to his heels,
and, diving into the river, swam across and
disappeared into the bush. It was nearly a
week before they got him back.
* * * *
“Pedlar”: Who was chiefly to blame for
the massacre in the first Test —Sut-
cliffe, Hammond, the Indian Chief, the Ass.
Press or Larwood? Unanimous chorus:
“Larwood, of course.” Well, in that section
of the cricket bible which records the Eng-
land v. Australia feats, the ex-pitboy’s 10
wickets will not be noted. But the perform-
ances of the three successful batsmen will
need half a dozen new entries. Every cen-
tury is mentioned, there is the fractured
second-wicket partnership record, and Pataudi
will have a special line for his hundred on
first appearance. Australia has set the
example in ignoring Larwood’s feat. When
he was wriggling into his sweater at the end
of his great effort on Black Tuesday, neither
voice nor hand was raised to cheer him.
ijc # ❖
“Hotham” : Old Jack Blackham, the wicket-
keeper of all time, recently drew an inter-
esting comparison. The first Test between
England and Australia was played at Mel-
bourne in 1877- Charles Bannerman, dead
only a couple of years ago, put Australia’s
name on the cricket map by scoring 165
before retiring hurt in the first innings.
Blackham kept in that match and in others
in which Bannerman figured. The great
’keeper’s opinion is that of all Australian
batsmen Bradman most resembles in style
and effectiveness our first Test centurion.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: According to Ellsworth
Vines, himself a product of the system, the
U.S.A. trains tennis-players practically
from the cradle. In California alone some
30 tourneys for youngsters are held in
the 12 months, and at these ten or a dozen
of the best men players are paired with pro-
mising youngsters. The men are supposed
to coach their young partners in all depart-
ments of the game and point out their mis-
takes. Included in the curriculum, says
Vines, is instruction in the “manners of
,lawii tennis.” To the casual observer this
particular branch does not seem to have been
studied by Americans as closely as some of
the others.
❖ * * *
“Glenelg” : One result of the recent inter-
state matches between South Australia and
Victoria in Melbourne is a vigorous protest
from the Wheatfielders against being treated
as kids. Victoria always plays a second
team against South Australia, the first choice
being reserved to meet N.S.W. This system
originated in the past when S.A. tennis was
in the callow stage, and persistence in it is
resented now that South Australia, is “equal
to Victoria,” to quote the official complaint.
S.A. added nastily that in its opinion these
matches are “used as a bait to draw inter-
national visitors into playing in a tourna-
ment and thus adding to the gate.” One
wonders if these international and inter-
state games competitions conduce as much to
mutual goodfellowship and understanding as
their upholders claim-.
“Hotham”: The programme for the Aus-
tralian tennis championships, which are to
bo played in Melbourne from January 20 to
January 30, has been released. The feature
of the meeting will, of course, be the Ameri-
can team, though all the States with the
exception of Tasmania are likely to be repre-
sented. The junior contests for the Linton
and Wilson Cups will be played on January
17, 18, 19. all competitors having to be under
the age of 21 on January 30, 1933. N.S.W.
has the Linton pot and Victoria the Wilson.
Crawford holds the Australian singles,
doubles and mixed doubles, though he was
facing the Japanese cracks last year. This
time he may find the Americans a tougher
NO HURRY.
SECOND: “Stay down till nine!”
VOICE FROM THE BACK: “Gam! ’E’ll be there till midnight!”
proposition. McGrath is the Linton Cup
keeper.
* * * $
“Cottesloe”: Westralian tennis followers
were rather staggered the other day when
one S. R. Youdale, a member of the British ,
Tennis Council, told a Fremantle inter-
viewer that he thought Australia’s pros-
pects of capturing the next Davis Cup were
“extremely bright.” He considered that
France, with no young players of note and
Borotra definitely dropped out, cannot
retain the trophy, which will probably go
to Australia or America. He is right about
America, but there are England and Ger-
many to be considered. Australia’s pre-
sent personnel is not one to inspire confi-
dence, having in view its last Davis Cup
record. Perhaps, though, he was only fol-
lowing Disraeli’s recipe for flattering
Royalty—“ Lay it on with a trowel.”
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Manly’s open foursomes
championship, one of the leading events of
the Sydney golfing year as far as the clubs
are concerned, was won in fine style by
F. G. Murdoch and 11. M. Cutler. The Royal
Sydney pair went out in 39 and home in 35.
C. II- Fawcett and E. P. Pope, also from the
Rose Bay club, were a stroke worse with
75, and the home club had to be content with
third place, H. W. Hattersley and D. M.
Garland returning a card of 76.
“The McHaggis”: A golfing point cropped
up during the contest for the Manly
foursomes. Murdoch found his ball badly
cupped. He played out, cutting his ball
considerably, but played on instead of claim-
ing a new one. He would have been quite
within his rights in doing so. The player
is the sole judge as to whether his ball is fit
to play with or not.
:J: * * *
“Fitzcray”: Matters have come close to
bloodshed in Melbourne’s Albert Park, where
rival cricketers and golfers quarrel, like
the winds and waters, “with the old hate
evermore.” It was for long sacred to cricket,
but golfers got their noses into it some
years ago and have been encroaching on
the cricket areas ever since. Cricketers have
been struck by golf balls, and if golfers have
been struck in their turn by cricket balls
there is no record of it. Tlie trouble has
risen from a split in the park committee,
but it is announced that when the new one
just appointed takes office, golfers will be
shooed off all cricket areas by 2 p.m. on
Saturdays.
“Junipero Serro”: San Franciscans have
been trying night golf on an open course.
This is a nine-hole affair at Ingleside, and
a fifty-million candle-power lighting unit
has been installed on it. Five thousand
people turned up to see the opening, and the
innovation proved successful, one player
doing the nine holes in four under par, while
half a dozen others were under or level.
The local associate champion, Jean Flint,
took 45 for the nine holes. The lighting
is done from 26 stations, the lamps being
on poles 70ft. high, each carrying from one
to ten 1500-watt lamps. Each lamp is in
a weatherproof projector with reflector and
lens and can be swung into any position.
There are also banks of floodlights for the
greens and for lighting up clumps of trees.
“Sandringham”: 11. L. Williams, Aus-
tralian amateur champion in 1931, continues
to show super-golf on the Melbourne courses.
The other day he tied for the monthly medal
at Victoria club with F. Vernon, going
round net in 70—a record for the course.
The length of his hitting was evidenced in
his drive from the tee to the 15th (330
yards), which ran past the green, and a 575
yards’ drive and approach at the ninth hole,
the second shot landing in a greenside
bunker.
* * * *
“Hamilton” : One of the most interesting
events of the Queensland golfing year is the
annual contest for the “Courier” Cup for
metropolitan caddies. In the qualifying
round of 18 holes at Yeerongpilly, R. Want,
of the Royal Queensland club, was well out
ahead with a card of 77. The afternoon
round of match play happened at Eagle Farm ;
Want was on his own course, and won 4
and 2. He is 16 years old, and a long and
straight hitter. The runner-up, Howard, is
only a six-stoner, but he played a plucky
game. This tourney has produced at least
one amateur champion of Queensland in
N. Von Nida, who won in 1927-28, and took
the State amateur title last year.
Car and Cycle
“Pore du Che-min”: Recent tests con-
ducted by the authorities in Melbourne re-
vealed the disturbing fact that only 67 per
cent, of the cars examined were efficient.
The balance showed varying degrees of ineffi-
ciency, some vehicles being in an absolutely
dangerous condition, especially in regard to
braking. No wonder accidents are common.
It is likely that in future owners will have to
submit their cars for an examination at least
once every six months. Things are probably
just as bad in Sydney and other centres. In
these days when cars apparently need little
attention from drivers, a race has grown
up which is as ignorant of a car’s mechanism
as the average citizen is of a horse’s. The
old buzz-buggies, if they did nothing else,
trained their owners in the hard school of
experience.
* # * *
“Fire Piston”: The Diesel-type motor may
be said to have fairly arrived as a power
unit for ordinary motor-cars, and the next 12
months will probably see a great development
in this cheap fuel engine. More than one
manufacturer has conquered the weight pro-
blem and got his engines down to the weight
of the ordinary petrol unit, and the engines
can now be made in several sizes. One twin
cylinder engine now on the market is little
larger than that of the ordinary motor-cycle.
The cylinders are horizontally opposed and
the engine can be used in light cars or
motor-boats. The weight of the complete
unit is 1601 b., including the heavy fly-wheel.
The early appearance of a compression-igni-
tion engine of about 1500 c.c. is forecast.
This would give about 25 b.h.p. and cover
50 miles per gallon of cheap crude oil in
ordinary use.
* * •:= *
“Formula”: A. C. Jenkins put up a U.S.
record for 24 hours’ continuous driving by
covering 2710 miles in that time on a 10-
mile circular track. The car was a 12- .
cylinder Pierce-Arrow which had previously
run 36,000 miles, and was a standard model,
save for a high compression head and gear
ratio and extra fuel capacity. An average
of 115.4 m.p.h. was hit up for the first 500
miles, beating the record for racing cars in
the Indianapolis 500.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Autocycle Union of
Victoria is staging the Australian Tourist
Trophy race for motor-cycles in four classi-
fications on Phillip Island on January 30.
The divisions are: Senior Australian T.T.
(all powers), 100 miles; Junior T.T. (350
c.c.), 100 miles; lightweight T.T. (250 c.c.).
70 miles; Australian sidecar T.T. (all
powers), 50 miles. It has been decided to
include an award for an inter-State road
team championship, decided on a points basis
according to the positions of the first three
riders from each State in the seniQr event.
Miscellaneous
“Splash”: When the N.S.W. swimming
authorities recently refused to have anything
to do with the American swimmers imported
by Ma’s hated rival across the Murray, it was
freely forecast that the old girl would climb
down, rather than miss the chance of pouch-
ing a few shekels. So it has chanced. Kurtz
and Kalili demonstrated that they were first-
grade performers in their opening turn in
Brisbane. They will show in Sydney about
the middle of February, after completing a
tour of Tassie.
# if * *
“In Goal”: For years past N.S.W. water-
polo players have been trying to persuade a
team of Noumcan players to come this way,
but something has always happened to peg
the visit. However, an invitation has been
accepted for a visit in March, and as a
Victorian side will be in Sydney at the same
time an interesting triangular tourney should
eventuate. The Noumeans are mostly natives
or of native blood, and their water-polo
prowess has astonished visitors from Sydney
with a knowledge of the game.
* * * *
“Hotham” : The first of the Victorian row-
ing championships for this season was de-
cided on the lower Yarra when Richmond,
walked away from Footscray City in the
champion fours, with Albert Park third. The
time for 21- miles upstream was 14min.
50sec. The 2000 metres sculls, which re-
placed the old mile race last year, was taken
by S. McGorm, of the Ballarat club, who
finished five lengths ahead of veteran Ben
Kelly, of Melbourne, in Smin. 7 3-ssec.
McGorm won the mile title in 1928-29 and
the Victorian sculling championship in 1922.
Kelly, who is on the 50-year mark, won the
State title in 1913-14. This was his first
race in a shell for 14 years.
$ 'J : 'S' $
“Fitzcray” : The promoters of the “world’s”
sprint championships held at Melbourne
Motordrome for some years past will change
the venue to a new ground they have acquired
at Maribyrnong. The show will be part
of Athletic Week and will be staged early
in February. Only approved runners in
prime condition will be allowed to start.
Entries include Arthur Robertson and Tim
Banner, both championship winners in the
past, while Ralph and English, of South
Australia, and Tom Miles, of Queensland,
have also been invited to face the starter.


JUST PUBLISHED
Contract Bridge
by ENA BURROWS
winner, with the highest points, of the
Culbertson Cup, N.S.W., for Contract Bridge.
WITH COMPLETE NEW
SCORING TABLES AND
REVISED RULES.
A handsome little book, beauti-
fully bound and printed.
All Bookshops or
“The Bulletin” Office
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
Nineteen hundred and thirty-two Christ-
mases have been garnered by Father Time,
yet a sport that held the world before the
first of them was among the greatest of
Sydney’s holiday attractions. The attend-
ance at Randwiek on Saturday was a bit
sparse, a mere 17,000 or so, but Boxing Day
saw the stands gay with summer frocks and
colored shoes and the droopy hat that seems
the Sydney woman’s only alternative to the
no-brim-at-all fashion. In hats as in shoes
white predominated.
Of the white-hatted was Philippa Stephen,
who arrived with Janet Knox. Mrs. Hans
Fay wore her hat snug-fitting and brown.
The Pat Osbornes were among those present
each day, and on Monday Mrs. Pat wore beige
frocking and a wide brown hat. General
Sir Sydney and Lady Lawford, the
Malcolm Mackellars, Mrs. John McKelvey
and Knight Allen Taylor and his lady were
among others whose eyes were gladdened
by the hanging baskets of petunias which
• adorned the official stand. The Spencer
Bruntons came with daughter Mrs. Moreing,
and the Hordern and Allen clans were repre-
sented. The lawns were like green satin,
and Mrs. Guy Belisario’s trig suit toned
in with Nature’s scheme.
And, of course, there’s no need to tell
that thousands went by tram and ferry and
car out to every beach armed with lunch
baskets. But, since everywhere boiling water
can be bought, the teapot almost ousted the
billycan from the picnic outfit. Cronulla
on the Monday had probably the largest
crowd in its history.
This Letter looked into the Australia ball-
room on Christmas Eve and found dancing
getting along nicely; then the Beach Cup
at the Wentworth claimed its attention. This
was positively a riotous success, and there
were two reasons for it—the cause, which
was Dalwood, and the attraction of the night,
which was the parade of beach girls. They
were really lovely, and one doubts if the
ancient Greeks ever produced anything
better. They marched up and down before
the judges (Dr. Smalpage, Senator Kings-
mill and General Lloyd) with a sort of
goose-step that must be the world’s best for
hip-reducing. Not that any of those Dianas
of the surf need to think about that —there
wasn’t an ounce of superfluous fat amongst
them. To a Manly beauty the prize was
awarded —with popular approval.
Brigadier Bertie Lloyd, M.L.A., was presi-
dent of the committee, and sat at the top
board with his attractive wife. Here were
the George Fitzpatrick couple, Senator and
Mrs. Kingsmill, Mrs. Maurice Edwards and
beautiful Beth Edwards from Westralia,
Mrs. Eales (who founded the Food for
Babies fund) and Sister Kerven of St. Mar-
garet’s. There were about 1000 dancers, and
there was a Christmas tree to fit the party.
Sunday heard the usual Christmas choirs
in the churches. Only in one of them was
there a note of sadness. Dr. Keith Barry,
ox-ganist and choirmaster of the kirk at
Mosman, had, it was announced, been obliged
by continued ill-health to resign. He has
been ordered to keep more strictly to his
home in the Mountains.
In the country Orange drew the largest
crowd —for a Back-to-Orange Week, which
began on Saturday. For this the busy West-
ern city turned on its most bracing weatliei',
and there were SOS’s for forgotten wraps
and woollies.
The Oronsay, which brought W. M.
Hughes back, together with Dame Mary and
daughter Helen and some other Australians,
was a very full ship when it sailed on the
23rd for the Christmas voyage to Noumea.
This is no proletarian trip, although it is a
holiday cruise. Una Clift is among the 600
passengers; as are the Sep Levys, Mollie
Watt, the O. E. Friends, the Falkiners and
the J. O. Meekses. The medical Chisholms
and Flynn families are both represented, and
one of the pretty girls is Suzette Adams,
novelist Arthur’s eldest daugni,er, who
journeys with the William Epps couple.
Then, of course, over a thousand holiday-
makers left on tne Strathaird last Friday
for Norfolk Island; the Canberra carried over
a hundred tourists to Hayman Island in the
Whitsunday Passage, and many Sydney
people are off on the Monowai cruise to
Milford Souixd.
The Kindergarten Zoo at Taronga is
already, shaping towards being the greatest
attraction of that evergreen showplace these
Christmas holidays. It is laid out on the
slope near the scenic railway, just at the
back of the lions’ den. In it will be baby
animals as domestic as lambs and kittens,
as wild as jaguars (when the authorities can
catch them young enough). Baby foxes and
lion cubs make charming playthings, a
Zoo expert tells this Letter, but baby
giraffes and zebras are too rickety on
their tall legs to be allowed away from
their mothers’ apron strings. The baby
monkeys are the cutest little things—-
so gay in spite of their sad eyes; and the
kiddies adore them. The trouble is they
want to take them home. The animals are
in yards, separated from the young visitors
by walls about two feet high, so that the
small girl and boy can lean over and pat
them to their hearts’ content, and baby
things can be lifted on to the wall for a
close-up. Last Boxing Day the idea was
given a try-out in temporary premises, and
over 3000 children visited Jungle junior.
Their affection proved almost overpowering
to the forest children.
The lions’ cages, facing the opposite way
from the old caves, and getting far more
sunlight, prove yet again the virtue in the
solar rays. The lions have improved enor-
mously under the course of sun-baths, and it
is the same with the jaguars—particularly
the cubs. But the sun must be tempered
with shade to simulate to some extent the
green aisles of the jungle, so the cages are
to have covers over them during midsummer.
The National Gallery has hung out a
special attraction for the holidays. It is
a collection of Gruner’s paintings showing
the progress of that peculiarly Australian
artist. The pictures are in the gal-
lery where, last year, the Streetous hung;
and here are trees and orchard slope and
mountain valley in sun and shadow, crisp
with the touch of frost, dreamy with spring,
drowsy with summer. Here are pictures to
be remembered, pictures with the shy loveli-
ness which brings a catch to the throat.
There are 100 examples of the artist’s work,
and they have been garnered from the
National Gallery, from Allens, Dangars,
Dame Eaditlf Walker, Miss Grace, John Lane
Mullins, the famous De Groot, John Pye,
the Union Glub (the reading-room will be
without the massive Araluen Valley while
the show is on), Howard Hinton, Norman
Pope, and from almost every well-known art
collection.
The speeches at the opening were not in-
spiring, and before knight John Sulman
had ended hi,s lines lots of the audi-
ence were sneaking down to the back
of the Gallery to view the work on the
walls. The Gallery’s art director, Jimmy
McDonald, was looking a pleased man and
Mrs Jimmy like a smooth-plumaged bird,
one of the prettiest in the crowd. Julian
Ashton was there glorying in his old pupil,
as were Syd Smith, Florence Blake, returned-
after-seven-years Maude Sherwood, D. H'.
Souter and his smiling daughters, Mrs. John
D. Moore, Dora Jarrett (in a royal-blue
frock and an impudent white lid), Mrs. J.
Lee, the professorial Schofields and dozens
of others n the city’s art world. Chief
Justice Street and the artist himself were
importants of the afternoon.
Sydney will miss the tall figure of Isabel
Crowdy, 0.8. E., after March next, when
she sails to rejoin her family in England.
Miss Crowdy arrived with Sir Philip and
Lady Game, friends of long standing in
England, and since then she has been a
vital part of the v.-r. household. Among
her many interests in Sydney have been the
Ex-Service Women’s Club, of which she is
patroness, and the Lyceum Club, of whose
music circle she is president.
The pretty girl in this Rene Pardon photo-
graph is Phyllis Fuller, daughter of John
Fuller, elder
brother of the
well - known
theatrical firm
of Australia
and Maoriland.
Phyllis has
acting in her
blood, and her
work with the
amateur com-
panies of the
city is always
marked with
that crispness
of action which
is second
nature to off-
spring of a
family of
mummers. Last
week Phyllis
spent her time
making tests
fo r “T h e
“Squatter’s Daughter,” the forthcoming
Cinesound production.
The first news of Gerald Marr Thompson’s
engagement to Miss Matliijde Pognon was
released by that lady to a little group of
University and French friends who had
gathered around Miss Soubeiran at Bowral
for a .before-Christmas party. The actual
lunch was at Mount Gladstone, but a day
with Miss Soubeiran was the reason for the
journey. Later one of the nicest gifts the
newly-wedded pair received was from the
same group.
Everybody in Sydney knows Gerald Marr
Thompson. He was musical and dramatic
critic on the “S. M. Herald” for so long
that he must have attended hundreds and
hundreds of first nights. Miss Pognon has
been lecturer in French at the Teachers’
College at the Uni. for a number of years.
Among the schools she taught was Doone,
and this Letter heard a Frenchman say of
two of that school’s ex-pupils that they
spoke the purest French he had heard out
of France. She, like Miss Soubeiran, is a
noted figure in the Alliance Frangaise, and
recently the Alliance Frangaise in Paris
recognised her good work by awarding her
a medal. This was presented to her by
French Consul-General Dussap. The knot
that made her and Marr Thompson one
was tied in St. Andrew’s Cathedral, the
bride wearing a smart frock of green flat
crepe and a small black tricorne hat.
The many friends of Blanche d’Alpuget,
of The Bulletin’s sister, the “Mirror,” will
be sorry to learn that she met with an acci-
dent last week. She was knocked down by
u car in New South Head-road, and may
have to stay in St. Vincent’s private hos-
pital for a month.
James Edmond (to whom this Letter
sends the season’s greetings) is still a very
sick man; but he has recovered so far that
it was decided lately to move him from his
home at Bellevue Hill to, a house at Wah-
roonga, where he might get more of the sun
he so loves. He had an eventful journey:
the ambulance was on the bridge when the
great storm of the 15th struck it. A car
alongside was blown over, and a motor-
cyclist was flung right across the roadway.
Tlie ambulance, however, managed to get
across and sought shelter behind the masonry
of the approaches. Before the journey Mr.
Edmond had to undergo' the usual overhaul.
“The heart of a lion!” exclaimed the doctor
after he had taken the usual soundings in
that neighborhood. “And wliat’s the good
of having the heart of a lion,” the irrepres-
sible patient asked, “if you’ve got something
else that’ll kill you?”
Jean Cheriton, the good-looking and
widely-known principal of Doone, is begin-
ning to move about again after the Occident
to her hip which kept her in bed for
over three months. Strangely enough she is
looking better than before her mishap, and
is already plunging into the preparations for
the 1933 school year.
The bright-faced girl in this Lupton pic-
ture is Joan Cleary, whose father was
Chief Co m-
missioner of
Railways. The
Clearys are a
family in
whom kin d-
ne s s and
brains go hand
in hand;
father W. J.
Cleary has
always been
noted for
good works,
and Mrs.
Cleary does
her share. It
isn’t any won-
der that Joan,
just in her
teens, stretches
a hand to
help. She is
an active
member of the younger set of the Anti-
Tuberculosis Association of N. S. Wales.
Mrs. Cleary is deputy-president of the
grown-up committee, and her daughter is
treasurer for the juniors.
Mrs. Jessica Lee is sporting an engage-
ment-ring. It was given to her by Vito
Sardone, one time an Anzac, now an engi-
neer clever enough to have plucked a job
in London, where such jobs are scarce. The
young man went to England a year ago, and
was in Canada on his way back to Australia
when the offer of a billet with an aero-
plane firm was cabled to him. He arrived
in Sydney the other day ; he and Mrs. Lee
will be married and on their way back to
England by March. The lady has been a
great -worker in the cause of the soldier.
She is an ardent Feminist, and one of tlie
few women of the city who can be relied on
for a really good speech—she made one the
other day in the interests of the boy without
a job.
Margaret Osborne became Mrs. Kenneth
Capel in St. Mark’s Church, Darling Point,
on a warm, still night last week. Both bride
and ’groom belong to , well-known squatting
families. Margaret is the youngest daughter
of the Harry Osbornes, formerly of Roma
(Q.), and Kenneth’s father was the late
Albert Capel, of Derra Derra, Bingara. The
wedding dress was of palest-pink satin, very
long and very flared, and for train it drew
some lovely Honiton lace which had been the
wedding veil of the bride’s grandmother,
Mrs. Henry Dangar. Morwenna White, once
of Muswellbrook, was the only bridesmaid.
She wore a satin frock in pale delphinium
shades and a wreath of this flower in her
hair. Margaret’s brother Jack was best
man, and padre Hubert Gordon, of Gost-
wyck, blessed the vows. Reception was at
the Rose Bay Golf Club, where Dangars,
Osbornes, Capels and Allens made up the
greater number of the guests.
This Letter has begun to wonder if the
growing of beards is conducive to the devel-
opment of poets. For the summer cruise,
just ended, all dashing seamen of H.M.A.
Navy were ordered to sprout chin hair.
Most of them wore it like the Elizabethan
bucks —Sliakspeare and Marlowe and those
other habitues of the Mermaid tavern. You
can say what you like, but the Girl in the
Flat Opposite claims that seeing the bearded
faces staring back at them from their
mirrors started the heavenly ferment, and
the absence of best girls and the proximity
of the deep and dark blue ocean, plus the
stars overhead, did the rest. Anyway, this
Letter has had evidence that there are no
fewer than three young' poets living in the
grey fastnesses of our warships.
The Pyrmont Food and Relief Fund, now
in its fifth year, is facing one ot the most
critical times in its battling history. Many
of its friends have been forced to reduce tne
amount of their subscriptions, and some can
give no more help at all. But the tund still
lias as great a number of unfortunates seek-
ing its assistance. There are never less
than 200 families on its books who need
clothes and other necessities ot tile. A-
the Pyrmont headquarters more than oUU
meals are served daily to needy men, women
and children ; and in the hostel 200' beds are
supplied each night to destitute men. dins
is one of the city’s works of love; Mrs. Mary
Macdonald, the organising secretary, labors
from sunrise to sunset without one thought
of self. She will be pleased to receive the
smallest contribution, and if it is a parcel
that you can’t send or take out to the hostel,
a ’phone message to MW1204 will bring a
collector to your door.
Probably because so few people can buy
diamonds, the old bracelets, earrings and
rings of grandmama and great-grandmama
are having an airing. Last w r eek this Letter
saw a smart woman wearing twin jet brace-
lets. Her dress was of white angel-skin and
it was backless. Its frontispiece was brought
fairly high and each' over-the-shoulder-piece
was continued scarf-wise. These two ends
were twisted halter-fashion from the nape
of the neck to the back of the waist,
where they were firmly moored, and
after that they continued their separate ways
as sash ends.' As a contrast to this another
just-returned displayed a long mist-blue even-
ing frock in velvet, flaring from the knee
to the ground. With this was worn a small
muff of the blue and a little fitted-to-the-
waist coatee of silver-grey velvet. This
coatee has long sleeves peaked to come over
the knuckles, and its long vee-front fastens
at the waist with two diamente buttons.
Flowers and leaves in big designs are
spattered over many of the new materials
for the dinner- and dance-dress; and one
garment of black mousseline patterned in
green leaves had a sleeve of three frills that
had apparently slipped off the right shoulder
to the forearm. But over the left shoulder
a swathe of the material was drawn cross-
wise from the right and ran its crosswise
course at the back. This dress was. only
about ankle-long and its hem was slightly
uneven.
The small hat persists abroad. The pork-
pie and the beaked varieties are the favorites
of Paris and London, with a cap that looks
like half a melon running a good second.
Suzanne Lenglen has given the beret a
second innings. She wears it well over one
eye and pulled down. We, Heaven only
knows why, will doubtlessly ape our sisters
who walk beneath' grey skies, and buy small
hats. Eye veils again dangle from the spot
where the brim might be supposed to sprout,
and these veils seem to hate the symmetrical
head arrangement as much as artist B. E.
Minns; while on one side they cover an eye
only, on the other they droop cheek-deep.
Hair is terribly important, tor the small
hats and turbans show such swathes of it.
Some of the hats have pieces cut away so
that the hair may shine through. A small
navy blue hat taking the air last week was
of the platter type, looked positively glued
to half an inch of its wearer’s head, and
had a strap of tiny pink roses that circled
the back of the hair, slipping underneath
what was the 1932 version of the chignon.
Victorian? Some of us are almost Victoria
and Albert museum pieces. And now a word
about capes, which are everywhere, but not
long capes. They swing from the shoulders
of frocks, they are on coats, and waist-length
they are worn by themselves as wraps; then
you can collar them with fur and edge them
with ermine and sable tails.
Bananaland brevities : —•
The biggest surfing carnival ever held on a
Queensland beach was staged at Southport, Sir
Leslie Wilson being the moving spirit. Members
of 13 life-saving clubs went through their displays,
175 life-savers marched past and the Governor, him-
self an ardent surfer, made a special appeal to the
public to support the good work. There was a
surf-boat race and nearly 1000 cars were parked
near the beach, while aeroplanes circled overhead.
Archbishop Duhig opened the Seaside Home for
Poor Children at Sandgate, which the Catholic
Daughters of Australia have sponsored. Twenty
children a week will be housed there.
A hundred and one little patients at the Hospital
for Sick Children enjoyed the Christmas festival.
Each ward had its special decoration scheme. Gail-
lardias and coreopsis backgrounded the Goose Girl
and her charges in McConnell ward ; pink antignon
adorned the Grey ward and in Raff ward were
hydrangea and, daisies. In the diphtheria ward there
was a circus set, and in the Chelmsford ward an
English and Australian scene. There was afternoon
tea for official guests in the wardroom. Nurse
Stalb was Santa Claus and the Mayoress spoke.
White and pink flowers decorated the Ann-street .
Presbyterian Church for the marriage of Charles
Mitchell and Irene Alexander. The bride, who was
given away by her brother, wore bridal satin, Chan-'
tilly lace and broidered Belgian lace veil. Jean
Galbraith ’maided in shell pink and silver. Mr.
T, R. Alexander was the host to 80 guests at the
Golden Glow Cafe and Mrs. E. J. Brown acted as
hostess in Nile green and gold.
The Scots Church, Clayfield, saw the wedding off
George Finney and Betty Galloway. The bride’s;,
father tied the knot and her uncle gave her away :
in a setting of white bridal satin and century-old' -
Brussels net veil. Iris Sandercock and Marjorie •
Stewart ’maided in frilled white organdie. Bowls and
vijses of coreopsis adorned Hotel Canberra for the
party. The ’moon rises in Tasmania.
Mrs. Graham Mylne, State president of the C.W.A..
came out in a new light at the Lota seaside
home, playing Father Christmas in with the bag-
pipes. R. A. Mclntyre was Santa Claus for some -
100 little ones.
Marjorie Allen announces her engagement to _
George Flower, son of the late Canon Willoughby .
Flower (Sydney). The bride-elect is daughter of the
Edmund Allens, of Toowong.
The W. Buchanans, of Pittsworth, celebrated their
golden wedding last week. They arrived by the ,
Otago from Scotland in 1882.
Nell Douglas-Graham produced four one-act plays ,
for the Art Theatre. Stuart Walker’s dramatisation ;
of Oscar Wilde’s “The Birthday of the Infanta” was '
one of the outstanding interpretations. “The Grand- ,
mother,” “Hanging and Wiring” (with handsome ;
Mary ICessell as the woman), and “The Understudy,
where Nell Douglas-Graham was inimitable in the
low-comedy part of the dresser, were the other
pieces.


a to
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
C BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
SEVEN
PRIZE MEDALS.
m
WORKS: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
These series of Pens
neither scratch nor
spurt.
They glide over the
roughest paper with
the ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Public is warned to beware of
imitations of these famous Circular
Pointed Pens.
Win. Fowlcs, of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only Victoria’s greatest refined hotel values
thus: Single Rooms
from 4/6 day ; Double
from 7/6; and meals
optional (also at re-
duced rates in Tea-
rooms or Cafe), and
Room with Breakfast
from 6/6 Single or
11/6 Double —all less
10 p.c. if staying one
week or more; and
complete Board from
10/6 day or 65/- week
(both net) ; but, in
addition, if you
motor, Win. Powles
m,’
garages your car free of charge in the hotel
garage, next door, during your entire stay.
Such value service and convenience is not
obtainable at any other hotel in Mel-
bourne city. Please write for tariff card,
which gives all information, or state your
requirements and we will gladly quote.
Special rates for clubs, conferences, families,
etc. (The Manager, Oarlyon’s Hotel, Mel-
bourne, is sufficient address for your letter.
Educational.
METHODIST LADIES’ COLLEGE, BURWOOD
Founded 1886.
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL.
In addition to the classical classes, and included
in the ordinary curriculum, a new Secretarial and
Business Training Course will commence with the
next term, which begins on February 8.
Principal, REV. T. F. POTTS.
Head Mistress, Miss SUTTON, B.A.
New illustrated prospectus upon application to the
■ Principal.
Missing Friend
YV/TLL WILLIAM HODGSON FALL,
VV who was at one time residing in
Melbourne, or anyone able to give informa-
tion concerning him, communicate with
RITCHIE & PARKER, ALFRED GREEN
& CO., Solicitors, Launceston, Tasmania.
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
WALTZES FROM VIENNA.
KING’S THEATRE:
TREASURE ISLAND.
Twelve years ago the Big Strike on
the Broken Hill Mines ended. Since
then, peace has reigned. Three more
years of peace have been ensured by
the new wages agreement. Here’s a
Town for Business!
“THE BARRIER MINER”
has been getting business for those
who want, it for OVER FORTY-POUR
YEARS in City and Country in the
Far West!
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
All hopes of a great parade of summer
dressing at Caulfield on Monday were dashed
by the Clerk of the Weather, who decreed
that we should have the coldest Christmas
since John Batman’s wife boiled her first
Christmas plum-pudding on Vic. soil. It
was a day for furs, tailored suits and sur-
touts, and that’s what was worn. However,
the racing was good, and the weather, which
had been vile the two preceding days, bright-
ened up in a very welcome manner.
In nine cases out of ten if you see a
Melbourne citizen with an armful of parcels
at this season there is a bunch of lavender
on the top of the pyramid. Wherever there
is a flower-stall or -shop there are bunches of
the pale purple flower, ready to be placed in
dainty boxes, heliotrope-hued raffia bags or
lucky slippers to post away as something
particularly characteristic of this city. The
sour-sweet perfume permeates arcades and
streets, a sure sign to the nostrils of the
confirmed Melburnian that Christmas is here.
It is pleasant to be able to record that there
was a brisk orgy of Christmas shopping,
and the volume of -trade appeared to be no
less than in years when the world was less
troubled about money. Undoubtedly there
isn’t as much to spend, but the spending
makes as much stir. And we’ve not been
forgetting the workless.
This has been a wonderful season for
hydrangeas, and the plants are a favorite
form of gift from one flower-lover to an-
other. There is no bloom that responds so
sweetly to attempts to alter its color, and
this year the globular clusters flaunt their
charms in suits of deepest rose, mauve,
‘purple and a blue that almost shames the
lobelia.
At a Victoria League luncheon at the
Wentworth, the guests of honor were Sir
Benjamin Robertson and Sir Hugh and Lady
O’Neill. Sir Benjamin is here to visit his
son-in-law and daughter, Mr. and Mrs.
Champion, of Canberra. He is on the cen-
tral executive of the Victoria League in
London, and was at one time Governor of one
of the Indian Provinces. The Maudsley lady
and Miss M. Turner were hostesses, and
round the table were Mr. and Mrs. Cham-
pion, knight James Barrett, Mrs. Arthur
Hordern, the Stawell lady, Mrs. A. Sargood
and the David Massons.
Austral Salon members met for a pre-
Christmas party, and presented Iris Shaw,
a former hon. sec., with a bit of silver, which
the vice-president, Mrs. .T. L. Stein, handed
over. Madame Hilda Sedgely and Sylvia
Oliver sang, Henri Touzeau exercised his
’cello, Iris Shaw and Stanley Brookes gave
excerpts from plays.
St. George’s, Malvern, was decked with
lilies and hydrangeas for the forging of the
bonds between Nancy, daughter of the E. H.
Millers, of Armadale, and Richard, younger
son of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Bruce, of Adel-
aide. Over the bride’s trained gown of pale-
pink satin flowed a tulle veil of the same
tint. She carried a sheaf of water-lilies.
White organdie embroidered iu roseate tints
and topped by a swathed toque was worn
by the attendant ’maid, the bride’s sister
Dulcie. There was a party afterwards at
Grosvenor, Toorak.
When Ivy, only daughter of the late W.
H. Tonkin, formerly of Bendigo, and of
Mrs. Tonkin, of Kew, exchanged vows with
Ricliard Vernon Francis at Grammar School
chapel, she faced the altar unattended in
a simple frock of blue crgpe de Chine figured
in a small design of fawn and red, with a
biscuit straw hat.
A Lafayette camera made this picture of
Leonard McKean, who was one of the princi-
pals in “Smil-
in’ Through,”
performed by
the Cairns
Memorial
Players at the
Princess. He
has taken part
in 85 produc-
tions of the
C.M.P., and in
many of the
society’s radio
shows. It is
largely due to
his energy
that the Play-
ers are able
to maintain
their own club-
room in the
city. He also
finds time to
lend other am.
dram. socs. a
hand.
For her wedding to Kenneth Imison,
Gwynneth, younger daughter of the H. E.
Vales, of St. Kilda, wore a lace gown of
the palest grey topped with a straw hat of
the same tint, wreathed with flowers the
same shade as the great sheaf of gladioli she
carried. Her sister Olive ’maided in flow-
ered-blue georgette frock and shady straw
hat.
Holding a couple of magnolias against
her pale-gold satin gown, over which flowed
a very long tulle veil of the same tint, Mary,
elder daughter of the Albert Deans, of East
Kew, wedded John, only son of the late
W. G. Allen and of Mrs. Allen, formerly of
Bournemouth (Eng;.), now of St. Kilda-
road. The palest rainbow hues were mingled
in the chiffon attire of the five attendant
’maids, whose caps were made to match, andl
their shower bouquets of sweet-peas blended
the same shades. After-rejoicings took place
at Grosvenor, Toorak.
Jean, younger daughter of the late Major
Richard IJ. Gibbs and of Mrs. Gibbs, of
Kooyong, wore the conventional white satin,
tulle and orange blossoms for her wedding
with Walter Perry Ham. Her quartette of
’maids, who included her sister Helen and
the bridegroom’s sister Dr. Mary Ham,
sported frocks of powder blue organdie with
girdles and millinery of pastel-hued blossoms.
There was a reception at Mrs. Gibbs’s home
afterwards.
Catherine, daughter of the Duncan
Rankins, of Elsternwick, exchanged vows at
St. Ivilda kirk with Francis, son of Mr. and
Mrs. Robert Powers, also of Elsternwick.
The bride wore white crepe with a veil of
embroidered tulle. Her ’maids were her
sister Marjorie and Lilian Carr, whose crepe
romaine frocks of pale sunset hue were
topped by largish tulle hats of the same
shade.
Aubrey, only daughter of the Edgar Dyes,
of Queen’s-road, is receiving congratulations
on her engagement to Henry, second son of
Mr. and Mrs. Mcßean, of East Malvern.
Christina Montgomery, who has retired
after 46 years’ service with the Education
Department, was entertained by 50 fellow-
teachers of the staff of Melbourne Girls’
High School at the Lyceum Club, when a
travelling bag was handed her as remem-
brance and appreciation of her work. The
band of ex-students who style themselves the
Paladians also gave their former head a
tea party and presented her with an etching
by John Shirlow, a bag and a travelling clock.
Miss Montgomery was a member of the
original staff of the first high school in this
State.
Master School Diplomas of the Uni. Con.
have been awarded to pianists Eleanor Clap-
ham and Elsa Glasson. Leonie Miller, now
in Europe, is the only other holder of this
diploma of the Con., which ranks higher
than a MuS.Bac. degree.
The smiling face that looks out of this
window belongs to Nancy Dobson, who is
making a
name for her-
self as a de-
signer of! stage
settings and
costumes. For
some time the
shows put on
by the Stand-
ard Players’
Society have
been dressed
by Miss Dob
son, whose
work was seen
at its best in
the recent pro-
du c tions of
Gordon
B o t t o in-
ley's “Towie
Castle,” R. C.
T rev c l yan’s
poetic drama
“Fana” and
Humbert Wolfe’s “The Return of the Fairy.”
Miss Dobson studied at the National Gal-
lery under Bill Mclunes and Charles
Wheeler, and then did a course of
commercial art. She was artist on a
daily paper and illustrated a book of verse-
by Sonia Hardie. She is one of Eileen
O’Keefe’s pupils, and has made several
appearances in amateur theatricals.
Contralto Cicely Kelly, of the Uni. Con.,
who is returning to Tassie, was farewelled by
friends and fellow-students at a tea party
at the Wattle, staged by Mrs. 11. R. Baird,
who was aided by her daughter Nancie.
John Brownlee has put the seal of his
approval on the voice of Alan Eddy, who
sang for him at the Uni. pon. Mr. Eddy
appeared at the Royal last year as Mephis-
topheles in “Faust,” and received help from
Joseph Ilislop, with whom he was associated
on that occasion. Messrs. Hislop and Brown-
lee agree that Mr. Eddy should study abroad.
The Colin Fraser couple, of Toorak, are
back again in Melbourne from a visit to
the U.S.A. and Canada, whence they returned
by way of Europe.
Mrs. Leslie Macdonald waved from the
deck of the Chitral as the liner left Port
Melbourne. The lady is on her way to visit
friends at Colombo.
Comedian Hector St. Clair’s famous
fiddle and the equally famous trousers
in which he concealed the instrument were
buried in the same grave as their owner at
Cheltenham Cemetery. There was a similar
observance when a professional cricketer was
buried in England; his bat and blazer were
interred with him. The practice is purely
sentimental nowadays, but at one time it had
a logical religious significance. It was not
mere sentiment that made his faithful sub-
jects immolate 10,000 horses and bury 100
of his wives alive when Genghis Khan de-
parted to the hereafter. He was visualised
riding' the horses in the next world and
having his socks darned by his unfortunate
spouses. Nowadays wealthy Mongols have
models of motor-cars burned at their funerals
so that they can go joy-riding about the con-
crete speedways that now compete with the
railways in the celestial regions. Annually
spirit money is burnt over the grave to
enable the deceased to meet his petrol bill.
Sir Oliver Lodge was supposed to have made
a revolutionary discovery when he announced
that his son Raymond went to picture shows
and drank whisky in the astral sphere,
but the materialistic conception of the life
hereafter is as ancient as man’s first mus-
ings about the universe.
Arthur Streeton’s latest show at the Fine
Arts is all roses, except for a couple of
landscapes, and there is a growing conven-
tionality about them. Placed alongside
these refined pictures, a bowl of real roses
would seem a faux pas.
This is Grace Wilson, who succeeds Mrs.
Murdoch as matron of the Alfred Hospital.
A trainee of
the Brisbane
Hospital, Miss
Wilson rose
to be matron
there, and
later occupied
a similar posi-
tion at the
Child ren’s
Hospital, Melp
bourne. She
then took a
course of
training as a
staff nurse at
the National
Hospital for
Nervous Dis-
eases in Lon-
don. She was
matron of
various Aus-
tralian mili-
tary hospitals
during the war, her services being recog-
nised with a C'.B.E. and the Royal Red
Cross, and she is matron-in-chief of the Aus-
tralian Army Nursing Service.
The Thorndike season at the King’s was
an artistic, if not a popular, sucess, if that is
any satisfaction to the management. It took
no longer than a week for public indifference
to lay Ibsen’s “Ghosts,” and Sydney
Howard’s Freudian drama, “The Silver
Cord,” soon ceased to trouble the complexes
of audiences. The demise of a play not with-
out merit was hastened by the co. throwing
the burden of remembering the dialogue on
the prompter to an extent hitherto, only per-
mitted to opera singers.
Spindrift from the Speck:—
Anthony Clark, better known in stageland as
Anthony Belmont, is home frpm America on, a visit
to his parents, Dr. and Mrs. Clark, of Richmond.
He has had a varied career, playing in “St. Joan”
when it was first produced in London, and having
since filled several engagements in New York.
The David Merediths have their daughter, Mrs.
F. C. Hodgson, and her small family with them
while the warships are in port. Lieut.-Commander
Hodgson is in the Tattoo.
Sheila, only chick of the W. B. McCabes, West
Tamar, and Alan Brett, Melbourne, are among the
latest engaged couples.
In aid of the Anti-Cancer Campaign the members
and associates of the Launceston Golf Club held an
afternoon at the links. About 60 pairs took out
cards fpr the 12-hole Canadian foursome. The day
was perfect and besides the players a big crowd
gathered to help the cause. Tea was served in the
lounge, where masses of pillar roses and delphiniums
and pink clarkias made a gay show.
Heavy rain spoilt the latter half of the tennis
matches with the visiting American team. It was
grand tennis, quite worth getting a wetting for,
but many of the spectators weakened on staying it
out. A dinner to the visitors was given at Hadley’s
by the T.L.T.A., and a committee of girls ran a
lively dance at Lindfield, Holebrook-place, to wind
up the evening.
- School speech-nights filled the pre-Christmas
weeks. Now the mountain and seaside resorts have
come to life, and cottages on Mount Wellington,
Brown’s River and the Channel ports are at a
premium.
The Shiplovers had a great Christmas party in
the Mayor’s courtroom, rigged up to resemble a
boat, with a ship’s lantern at the entry. Sea
chanteys and recitations made a capital programme.
Ships’ biscuit, cheese and beer gave the supper the
right flavor.
Scraps from S. Aus.:—
The ’Varsity Revue ran for two nights at the
Theatre Royal and proved the best show the students
have put on. Shirley Burns Cuming was again
convener of the flower stall, with a host of pretty
girls as sellers. The Premier and Mrs. Lionel
Hill were present on the last night and were wel-
comed by Dr. W. Lister Reid, president of the
Footlights Club.
Lawrence Power, the Australian tenor, arrived
in Adelaide to spend Christmas with his relatives.
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Muecke and their daughter
Mary Muecke have left for Tasmania on a holiday
trip.
Mr. Harold Tideman, who leaves this week for
England to study singing, has been farewelled at
many parties. The old collegians of Scotch gave
him a send-off at Birk’s Piccadilly restaurant.
At every charitable institution in Adelaide where
there are little ones, there has been a party. At
the Children’s Hospital Father Christmas went the
round of the wards, closely followed by ice-cream.
At St. Augustine’s Church, Renmark, the Rev.
T. Thornton Reed, assistant chaplain at Melbourne
Grammar, and Audrey, eldest daughter of Major and
Mrs. H. I/. S. Balfour-Ogilvy, of Renmark, were
made one.
At the panel-room in the Piccadilly, Napier
Birks gave a Christmas party for the prizewinners
in the recent baby show at Birks’s. The lucky 19
(out of 2300) were lovely children, and with their
proud mothers had a great time at the party. A
huge Christmas tree was laden with gifts and
balloons. Mrs. Twiss dispensed the presents.
Toe H organised a Christmas party at the Palais
Royal on Wednesday night, and all the accordion
players in Adelaide were there to play a barn-
dance. The coster’s donkey drew her little cart
round the ballroom, and a tremendous plum pudding,
made by the League of Women Helpers, was sold
at 3d. per slice. An amusing feature was the
burlesque fashion parade by Toe H men wearing
wonderful gowns made by Mr. W. Kroncke. Carol
singing was contributed by the Chalmers Church
choir; community singing and dancing followed.
Beside the Swan :—•
Violet Flanagan and Jim Macartney, a youthful
pair, set out upon their sea of matrimony from St.
George’s Cathedral. The bridal gown, with its
ornamental lace sleeves, cascaded into a train of
ivory satin, over which fell a veil of Brussels lace.
The bouquet was of white gladioli and roses. The
bride’s small sister Maxine, in a hjgh-waisted frock,
clasped a posy of rosebuds. A trio of other ’maids.
Kitty Macartney and the Misses Forbes and Kill, .
wore mist-grey over pale pink and parchment lace
caps edged with rolls of pink velvet. The bride’s
parents entertained 100 family friends to breakfast
under a marquee on their lawn, and shoals of young
folk to dancing later in the evening.
Mr. and Mrs. W. Balston were at-home in their
Peppermint Grove garden in honor of the 83rd
birthday of Mrs. Balston’s father, Mr. Octavius Burt.
Mr. Burt can tell many a tale of the early days.
He attended Bishop Hale’s school, was secretary
to three Governors and filled many Government posi-
tions. Mrs. Balston scattered words of welcome in
dove-grey figured chiffons, a touch of green upon
her millinery. Her daughter Mary chose/ beige with
gold and brown traceries, and Dorothy was a sym-
phony in woodland-greens. Mary, just returned
from the Cold Land, was made much of after her
four years’ absence from these shores.
The Repertory Club served its members with
Christmas greetings and an informal Christmas
social. The McNess Hall was frilled up with
streamers and every seat was occupied. Olive Dean
arranged a fashion parade, wherein rustling ladies
and gentlemen •of the previous century rubbed
shoulders with golfers, tennis players and foot-
ballers of 30 years ago and an undated bathing
belle in her comically frilled pantalettes. The
remainder of the programme comprised a mock
debate, a mask talkie in the making, a susceptible
casting committee doing its job in the robes of the
Ifu-Klux Klan, Christmas carols and cups of coffee.
Isla, Gwen and Valma Saw are off with the
multitude of Westralian girl tourists for a peep at
the other capitals. In their honor Lynette Clarke
slipped into tangee marocain and welcomed some
maidens to afternoon bridge. Another of the week’s
parties among the young things was Betty Merry-
weather’s gift tea for Kitty Macartney. Betty
did the honors in flowered voile.of buttercup tonings
and the bride-elect was smart in green and white.


II
Lost that morning headache
Now I stick to Dickens’
99
The genuine Old Scotch.
Bottled in Bond.
Sickens
Scotch WljteJtu
PCaAyvtaxyn. “V cf&tttoxro-d , a ftyxLnxsy.. —— 'ef'O-Ce, .
Special^
Excursions
CANADA
a nd
USA
• f
9 •
Sydney
VANCOUVER
San Francisco
FIRST CLASS PQQ
RETURN 3LVU
CABIN CLASS P7A
RETURN 3C/U
Usual jares £125/10/- and £B7 respectively.
SYDNEY TO VANCOUVER—
Via Auckland (N.Z.)> Suva (Fiji) and
Honolulu.
SYDNEY TO SAN FRANCISCO—
Via Wellington (N.Z.), Rarotonga and
Papeete (Tahiti).
Full particulars from
Stop-overs at any port of call
can be arranged.
Passengers may return by th«
alternate route.
The trip allows a two months'
stay in either Canada ot
U.S.A.
No Exchange Charges.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 9a
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also . representation
through + he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, tms
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction Of all general banking business.
Winnie Goes to Work.
BY NOEL MURRAY.
“X TOT in them legs, ya won’t,” said Sarah
I \ grimly.
i. “What’s the matter with my legs,
Aunt Sarah?” asked Winnie. “Why, only
this mornin’ Nugget was sayin’ they was
bosker legs.”
“Too right ’e would,” sniffed Aunt Sarah.
“But you’re a fine fool, my girl, if you fall
for the first man that puts apple-sauce over
yer legs. Many a girl’s legs has been the
ruin of her. Next thing ya know you’ll be
in the ’ospital with a bullet in your stum-
mick and the D’s takin’ your dyin’ disposi-
tions. You go get yourself a pair of stockin’s
if yer want a job in the ’Ole in the Wall.”
“But none of the girls in the ‘Veggies’
wear stockings,” Winnie objected, almost
tearfully. “They’d all think I was higli-
hattin’ ’em if I wore stockings, and settin’
up for a lady.”
“What do you care what the likes of
them thinks? Y’ ought to have more self- .
respectability than to be broadcastin’ what
them loud-speakers says. If you was a lady,
it’d be a change in these Markets. Fur as
I seen so far there’s only sheilas and dames
here. You go over to Mother Moloney’s
stall and get yersclf a pair of them rayons
she’s got at 9id. a pair and come back and
put them on. Now, go on or go out!”
Meekly, Winnie departed Mother Moloney-
wards, whilst Sarah squeezed her portly form
through the aperture that led to the cooking
section of the ’Ole in the Wall. Thereafter
a vigorous rattle of crockery proclaimed her
avocation.
Working rapidly with a tea-towel, Sarah
wondered whether, after all, she was wise
to give Winnie, a job at her tiny restaurant
in the Vegetable Markets. “The kid’s only
sixteen!” she' mused. “I’ll say these Vege-
table Markets are a bit tough. Aw well,
she’ll have to learn her onions like the rest
of us, I s’pose!” A half-sigh escaped her,
as she swiped the cloth automatically over
the six tables in her crowded eating-room.
Eating-room, counter and cooking annexe
comprised the wjiole outfit of the ’Ole in
the Wall, which was squeezed, somehow, into
a corner of Sydney’s overcrowded markets.
Presently Winnie returned waving a pair
of beige near-silk hose. “Mother Moloney
charged me a bob,” she announced succinctly.
“She’s a blarsted robber,” said Sarah.
“She got ’em from .Blue Peter and another
fence fer next to nothing. The boys got
away with ’em from them Redfern Mills
and the D’s was on their tracks, so they
had to get the stuff'dumped in a ’urry. They
split it up,: amongabout a dozen, and she
got her whack for two bloomin’ quid—’bout
tuppence a pair. And now she’s chargin’ yer
a bob! Wait till I have a bite out of ’er!
I’ll teach the old ’ag to rob decent workin’
people.”
“Oh, don’t say nothin’, Aunt Sarah,”
pleaded Winnie. “She’d on’y get the knife
into me fer bein’ a squealer.”
“I’ll clean ’er up if she starts any funny
business with you, Win,” Sarah reassured
her. “But she’ll have to wait. The boys’ll
be rushin’ in for feed in no time, so we’ll,
’ave to swaller Mother Moloney and ’er dirty
stolen ’osiery and get on with the job.
Start in on ther 7 spuds, while I gets ther
sausages goin’.”
Less than half an hour later Sarah’s
regular customers began to arrive. First-
comer was the old paper-seller from the
entrance.
“Sold out, Mike?” asked Sarah, as she
took his order for “sausages and moshed.”
“I have that,” wdieezed old Mike. “Sold all
the ‘ ’Eralds’ and all the ‘Tele-
graphs,’ and it breaks me ’eart to have to
sell the rags. If I only had the ‘Labor
Daily’ to sell I’d be happy.”
“Now, don’t go worritin’ over that, Mike,
comforted Sarah. “We all got to do lots o’
things we don’t like, ainjt we?”
“We do that, sure,” Mike agreed sourly.
“But in a properly-governed country we
wouldn’t.”
“Oh, well,” said Sarah, “here’s Winnie
with your order.”
“And who might Winnie be, anyway?”
asked ole Mike.
“She’s me sister Bertha’s eldest,” Sarah
explained. “Bertha’s got six and bin on
the dole fer a coupla years. Now ’er
mother’s dead and ’er father’s sent for them
to Queensland to look after ’em on the farm
up at Stanthorpe. Winnie ’owled to stay
behind with me, so I give her this job.”
Grunting, old Mike attacked his sausages,
and Sarah gave her attention to some new
arrivals—a couple of Chinese. “Orriglit,
Tom,” she anticipated their order —“bacon
and fry fer you, and chops for Peter”; and
the Celestials amiably grinned assent.
By this time the little ’Ole in the Wall
was well stuffed with eaters, its full com-
plement of twelve having arrived. Sarah
knew them all and had a broad smile for
each.
“ ’Lo Bill,” she greeted a powerfully-built,
dark man, clad in pants and singlet. “Too
’ot for yer shirt to-day?”
“It’s in the. wash,” Bill explained. “I was
wantin’ it to-night, so I give it to a Chow.
I got a date to keep to-night. Give us a
knockdown to the young lady, Sarah.”
Winnie approached with a tray. “Meet
me niece, Winnie Lawrence,” said Sarah.
“This is Mister Lyons, Win.”
“Bill to me friends,” said the dark one
jauntily. “Pleased ter meet yer, Winnie.”
“Well, if you keep her maggin’,” Sarah
warned him, “you’ll get ’er the sack. There’s
other customers ’sides you, mind.” She
passed on to another table.
“Ain’t eatin’ y’r cabbage, Joe,” she com-
mented to a cadaverous-looking man in a
corner. “Anything wrong?”
“Oh, I’m all right,” said Joe wearily.
“A bit off me oats, that’s all.”
“You oughter eat yer cabbage, Joe,” she
pressed him. “If there’s one veggy that’s
full of protomines than another, it’s cab-
bage ; and you need buildin’ up since you ’ad
the ’flu.”
“Oh, orright, Sarah,” he answered wearily.
“I’ll give it a go to-morrow.”
“Them Swedes is funny,” Sarah com-
mented as she passed Winnie later. “Joe’s,
not been the same man since that ’ussy of a
Julia got ’er claws on ’im. I bet, she scaled
him last night all right. ’E’s got a in-
growin’ love-affair, and that’s the worst
kind.”
Winnie was too fascinated with the bustle
and excitement of her first day at work to
worry over Joe’s or anyone else’s love affairs.
But she was well aware of the admiring
glances cast in her direction as she took up
her place at. the till to collect the cash. With
the excitement mounting to her head, she
parried their wisecracks in a state of blurred
happiness.
“How about a date?”
“I don’t date with strangers—’specially
when they got no shirt on.”
“Oh, come off, it’s in the wash. Ef I’d
known you was cornin’ on to Sarah’s I’d lia’
got into me spats. When I’m all dressed
up you can’t tell me from the Prince of
Wales.”
“Ain’t it a shame the way you hate your-
self !”
“Get a move on, Bill,” admonished Sarah.
“Winnie’s keepin’ me work waitin’.”
“Oh, well, so long, Winnie,” said Bill
cheerily. “See yer some more.”
Rapidly the little restaurant cleared. For
most of the men the day’s work was over
and they scattered homewards for a couple
of hours’ sleep. Workers in the vegetable
markets commence at 5 a.m. Their few
hours of continuous rush concluded with a
meal at Sarah’s, and then real life began.
Sarah and Winnie worked quickly and clat-
teringly. Soon the tables were cleared and
the washing-up complete. Sarah, who had
been on duty in time to catch the morning
cup-of-tea trade, was weary, but .Winnie,
who had not arrived till 10 a.m., was radi-
antly fresh.
They were about to leave, when a black-
clad figure sidled up. She wore a black
drooped straw hat and a veil.
“Could you give us a few scraps of food,
dearie?” she whined.
“No,” snapped Sarah witheringly.
“Well, fer cryin’ out loud!” said the sur-
prised Winnie. “Why didn’t you give ’er
a feed, Sarah? There was plenty scraps,
and you’re always givin’ things away at
’ome.”
“ ’Ome’s ’ome,” said Sarah succinctly.
“Which this ain’t, my girl. The likes uv ’er’d
be down on the ’Ole in the Wall like a
swarm of ants if I was soft with ’em. Be-
sides, didn’t yer see ’er methyerlated-
spirits eye? ’Er and ’er veil!” she snorted
angrily. “C’mon, let’s get ’ome. ’Arf a mo
till I ’ave a word with Peter.” She made
her wav to a corner close by where a man
was washing potatoes. “ ’Ow did Lil get
on with the magistrate yesterday, Peter?”
she asked.
“Good-oh!” said Peter cheerily. “Only
good behavior, thank Gawd. I knew she
was a real decent little piece—except for
her husband, of course,” he modified. “And
a girl can’t really help her old man. And
what’s a few spots between friends? She
ain’t been pinched for it before, and wouldn’t
er been this time only Ginger Annie got
noisy, and Lil, bein’ a bit oiled, stuck up fer
her.”
“On’y bound over, then?” said Sarah. “I’m
reel pleased, Peter.”
“0.K.,” grinned Peter, humming as he
tipped a heap of potatoes into the water.
“Now, there,” Sarah informed her niece,
“is a real good sort. It’s on’y the last
two years ’e’s come down in the world.
Useter ’ave a pub once, and I bin told every-
thing was up to ther knocker—s 6 pewter
beer-mugs an’ ’is monocle on ev’ry one o’
them; and ’e was Honorable Treasury of
one of them licensed vitcheller’s branches,
too. W’en he went broke, ’is wife cleared
out. That’s ’ow ’e’s took up with Lil. She’s
been six munce with ’im now and never got
on the scoot before. ’E’d ha’ been terrible
cut up if she’d uv turned out to ’ave a
record with the D’s; but ’er sheet’s clean,
it seems.”
The markets were almost empty now. A
few owners were still busy closing up their
stalls. A few scroungers were still swooping
on the gleanings. Most of the regular swarm
of thieves had departed. Two little Sisters
of the Poor were the only other women in
sight. Beneath their voluminous robes each
sister carried a sack now filled with the
vegetables she had begged from the stall-
holders.
“Fancy women reared like them beggin’
among this dirt!” said Winnie.
“Them’s real holy women,” 'said Sarah.
“Nothing’s beneath them if it’s for the love
of God.”
“I s’pose they are wonderful,” admitted
Winnie. “But, gosh, Aunt Sarah,” she
added happily, “I’m glad I’m workin’ in the
markets. It’sbosker!”
Ballade.
Lady, though Love once crowned you queen
O’er realms which Rapture holds m tee,
Of late within my soul have been
Sore doubts of your supremacy.
Now, since I know that faith must flee.
And these my vows be vowed m vain,
Lady, your charms are like to be
Beauty that cannot charm again.
Though Eve lacked not the grace to screen
The charms with which her coquetry
Allured in Eden’s fair demesne,
Slie caused the first catastrophe.
And since it seems Pasiphae .
A beast’s embrace did not disdain.
Who was it shamed, the beast or she,
Beauty that cannot charm again?
Love makes the world go round, I ween:
And yet perchance, in some degree,
With change of time and change of scene,
I shall rejoice to stand so free.
Aye, for I ask you, how can he
Who feels his youthful ardor slam
Love with his old intensity
Beauty that cannot charm again?
Aloof, austere, with air serene,
From your proud eyes you send through me
A queenly glance which says, “Between
Our hands we hold this slave, whom we
Have schooled to serve as we decree.’’
But, when rebellion ends your reign,
Who will receive the refugee,
Beauty that cannot charm again?
ENVOY.
Lady, at length your tyranny
Must needs depart from my domain;
For I behold alone in thee
Beauty that cannot charm again.
TAS.
ERIC MOORE.
December.
December’s abroad in this bright sunny land,
And the touch of his fingers has withered
the green;
December’s abroad in this bright sunny
land —
From the innermost hill to the glistening
sand
His moods and his passions are every-
where seen.
And the flowers that sprang in the spring-
time to nod
To the bees, homing over the green-coated
field--'
The flowers that sprang in the springtime
to nod
With the charm of a spirit, the grace of a
god, , .
Have returned to sweet nature their
solemuest yield.
And the wdieat’s tender shoot that looked
up in the spring,
At the warm caress of the sun and the
rain—•
The wheat’s tender shoot that looked up in
the spring
Has measured the growth that the season
could bring,
And bows its head now with a burden of
grain.
For December’s abroad in this bright sunny
land,
And the touch of his fingers has withered
the green;
December’s abroad in this bright sunny
land —
From the innermost hill to the glistening
sand.
His moods and his passions are everywhere
seen.
N.S.W.
J. E. ROBERTS.


A L .
r>
’"7 )
Sr,
mST "
.
IT
'jr S
; ■'.*.
; \r
.
mi
V
Mx .
fi \_
m
SSL
Livery
Weather
Calls for
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
Does this present humid weather, with
cold snaps sandwiched in between, make
you feel washed out and devoid of energy?
Do you go home from work with a liver
digestion all upset —and perhaps find the
family similarly affected?
When buying be sure
and get Dr. MORSELS
INDIAN ROOT PILLS,
which are enclosed in this
familiar blue wrapper.
If so, a course of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills will be found most
beneficial. They stir the
liver to healthy action,
regulate the bowels and
correct indigestion.
BRITISH OWNED
AUSTRALIAN MADE
D
J
toTthe ti vER
4
Q
Q
0
Mirpil
Skin Balm
An Antiseptic, Coaling,
Soothing and Healing
Lotion
MIRPIL is scientifically prepared to correct red
hands, chapped and chafed skin, sunburn, wind-
burn, sore and tired feet. Will keep the skin soft,
smooth and white, and does not stimulate the
growth of hair. Dries in a few minutes without
leaving a ny greasy after-effect.
Hands Always Wet.—-There is probably noth-
ing more irritating to the woman who does her
own housework than the soreness and redness
caused by constantly having her hands in water.
Sometimes it may only be an embarrassment,, but
more often it is a painful experience, especially
in cold weather. This can all be avoided by
keeping a bottle of MIRPIL handy in the kitchen,
and a few times daily, especially after washing-
up, pouring a small quantity into the palm and
rubbing well into the hands.
Rough Hands. —Besides frequently having them
in water, there are certain other classes of work
in the home, factory, garden and elsewhere, which
roughen the hands of both women and men. The
amount of discomfort thus caused it is unnecessary
to describe. Those who are affected know it only
too well. When such a condition arises a few
applications of MIRPIL will be found to restore
the natural softness.
ŵ
To Mothers. —Baby has to be bathed once or
more each day, and between times there is con-
stant washing of clothes, which tends to chapped
hands. There is no reason why a mother should
not take care of herself as well as the baby.
Remember that broken skin provides easy access
for germs, and it is of the greatest importance
that the hands be kept healthy and free from any
eruptions that might infect the baby, either
through contact or per medium of its food. Rub
MIRPIL on the hands frequently, and results will
be found to more than compensate for this pre-
caution.
Chafed Skin. —In cases of chafed skin, MIRPIIi
will prove an efficacious emollient.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply MIRPIL to the
soles of your feet when sore and tired. The relief
is wonderful.
Windburn and Sunburn. —When the skin is
burned by either wind or sun, or both, one or
more liberal applications of MIRPIL will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to bear being
touched by hand, lay a clean linen or cotton cloth,
saturated with the Balm, over the affected part.
The ravages of the sun will be modified if MIRPIL
is applied generously before exposing oneself to
its rays.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies. —MIRPIL smeared
on face and hands at night will keep mosquitoes
away. It also soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
After Shaving. —A small quantity of MIRPIL
rubbed on the face after shaving will be found
soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always rub MIRPIL
into the skin until dry. The cleansing and cool-
ing actions of this preparation will enhance the
comfort which ponder provides.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
MIRPIL, SAMPLE
A sample Tube of Mirpil will be sent upon receipt of
a letter mentioning the name of this paper, and 3d.
in stamps to cover Postage and Packing, by
The W. H. COMSTOCK CO., LTD.,
23 Lanrr Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Box H 1085 G.P.O.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia's Great Weekly Newspaper
& Bulletin
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
TEE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from. ...
for which I enclose
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months* 30/-; 6 months, 13/6; 3 months, 8/-
*
#s£■s*
ft
■+*'
o°
6
1>
\0
■4? V
,6 *C«”
0 r
,\V>>


ssa
mm
m
KBS
If you’re feeling
RUN-DOWN
poisoning
get rid of self-
. »
urges Dr. C. Oppenheimer, celebrated Berlin Phycisian
Read how to Banish “THAT TIRED FEELING”
- ' ' '
Appetite gone. Vitality lacking. Subject
to headaches, to frequent colds, to fits of
“blues”. . . .so many people are like that
.... when they could so easily be really well.
Self-poisoning Responsible
Modern methods of eating, lack of exercise
cause weakness and flabbiness of the
abdominal organs. Particles of decaying
food waste are not completely evacuated.
This waste encrusts and accumulates in
the creases of the intestine, and harbors
disease-breeding germs, which enter the
system and pollute the blood. Result is
dreaded self-poisoning, from which nine
out of ten suffer—caused by hidden and
unsuspected constipation. This self-poisoning
spoils the appetite—makes you feel weak
and irritable. It is the origin of constipa-
tion, indigestion, gas in the stomach, catarrh,
rheumatism, neuritis, eczema, pimples, and
hosts of other ailments.
Drink Coloseptic
Practically everyone is more or less in the
grip of autoxima. But you can change all
this by washing away the germ-laden mass
NERVOUSNESS AND INDIGESTION.
Armidale , N.S.W. '
“Have given Coloseptic a thorough trial , and I am so much
satisfied with it that 1 want you to send samples and literature
to all my friends. My Nervousness and Indigestion have
entirely left me and Ifeel years younger A
A B
(The original of this testimonial can be seen at the Head Office of the
Coloseptic Co., Ltd.)
with COLOSEPTIC. It loosens and dis-
solves off the encrusted waste* and then
passes it gently out of the body. It rids
the system of all circulatory impurities
through the other outlets provided for that
purpose —the kidneys—the pores of the skin
—and respiratory apparatus.
New Life --New Energy for You
COLOSEPTIC increases secretion of the
gastric and intestinal juices. ... It combats
headaches, fatigue and other symptoms of
constipation. Taken regularly, COLO-
SEPTIC stimulates your whole intestinal
tract. Complexion blemishes disappear.
Better digestion, more abundant energy are.
yours.
COLOSEPTIC—ReguIar full-size jars from
all chemists. Sufficient for several weeks’
regular use. Test COLOSEPTIC for your-
self. . . . Fill in the coupon and send it in
together with postal-note or stamps for 1/-
and receive an interesting booklet and a
Special Demonstration Jar of COLOSEPTIC.
COLOSEPTIC CO., LTD., 24 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
COUPON
Coloseptic Co., Ltd.,
Dept. C. 4,
24 Jamieson St., Sydney.
I will test Coloseptic. Enclosed find 1/- (stamps
or postal notes). Send me one Special Demon-
stration Jar and “Autoxima” Booklet.
Name i
Address
