

sets the standard
Jot More Miles per Gallon
*0 %SO
Mm ' m : z l.
m
10
mm
X«f <w
•:•' 'M& r,
MumM:
mmmmm
■warns*
m
5559
//Ww.
mm
555©?'55
llllfl
mmm
tet2i7iii6;
55555555-
WM.
wm
m
mmmmmm.
:
'•*.'<>' v, i
ioiiio 1
sfi
\m
\ vJSaI
r.'xid&Zie oww*.
m
m
m
HR "7 / iiiriiiii'' jjli
25
iiirM-Ui.
m.t
1
MS
PIUMt
P 25
Your speedo will tell you ! And the
reason for your speedo’s account of
“more miles” is this Plume gives a fuel-
saving, split-second start and power so swift
that you’ll leap from “idling” to maximum
speed, on the most economical mixture
possible . . . and seconds sooner than on
any other fuel.
Complete combustion (every cylinder
satisfied) and correct combustion (every
piston powered without a knock) is the
reason why Plume gives more miles.
Performance is Proof
Let your car decide.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
Aik for Mobiloil, too.
The Bulletin
A IfcsAJL AAvy, ~j<yv UjQ? — (P.g
Vol. 53.—No. 2716.
Wednesday, March, 2, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


QUR Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Stom Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
■ SEND THIS COUPON —*
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address .....................
S.B. 232
e
Pure Safe
Is Best for Daily Use
Because while it is cleansing
and purifying the skin, by
reason of its pure, sapona-
ceous properties, it is sooth-
ing irritations, by reason of
its super-creamy emollient
properties derived from
Cuticura Ointment.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
. Sample each free. Address:
R. To>vns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE AGE”
Established 1864.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of. the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Better Business
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
‘THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone; 85241.
*s64rt£ Stixicj, Stcupe,
s-S&ce&n ?iote4, rtzgeS /e%
„ iSie J&rusti? s?cC&<f. '
TheAUSTRALASIAN
pH SALE ALL STATES G
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re*
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
it follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street. S
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander.” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
&
55
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural,
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
"THE EXAMINER” is in its 90th year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.’
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,’’ “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sona Pty., Ltd..
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
HIS
BOKS
Is India Ready for Home Rule?
Here are two books by distinguished
Englishmen whose public careers are over,
who have Worked hard in the I.C.S. for the
betterment of Indians and thought hard
about their problems, and have reached
different conclusions from the same pre-
mises.
Fes.
The gifted author of Madampur (Black-
wood; 155.), who uses the pen-name Al.
Carthill, was brought up in “the straitest
sect of Liberalism.'’ When he was a sub-
Commissioner in the State for which he has
coined the name Madampur, Indian agi-
tators cultivated the Liberal party and
Exeter Hall.
He thought all autocracies wrong, but
contact with realities soon satisfied him that
the basis of Liberalism, namely, government
by elective bodies, was open to a fatal objec-
tion in India outside a few great cities;
the masses hated it, and refused to work it.
An official hierarchy was the only adminis-
tration Madampur had any use for; and
India is chiefly composed of Madampurs.
Famines occur periodically, since most
of the country is dependent on the annual
caprices of the rains, so the Government
built tanks and irrigation works. It is no
good enabling people to grow corn if you
can’t move it for them, so the Government
built roads and light railways. All classes
are insanitary, particularly the poor:—
The people are not fond of filtered pipe water ;
they think it is bad for the stomach, and prefer
something with more body in it, resorting, therefore,
to wells which are little better than cesspools when
there is a standpipe a few yards off.
Hence cholera. In one village “out of a
population of about. 300 there died in a
fortnight something like 250 human beings.”
So the Government imposed sanitary regula-
tions of a drastic and highly unpopular
nature, organised hospitals, arranged for
the burning of the corpses. The same with
plague.
Unquestionably Britain has been a minis-
tering angel to India for a century or so.
But now. according to this ex-civil servant,
a change is due. A chapter has ended. The
present crisis might not have arisen but for
the party to which he once owed gllegiance.
Until recently “the people, literates and all,
thought it natural to be governed by
Europeans.” Europeans, from the Viceroy
downwards, were untouchables, but they
were conquerors—and what better title has
a ruler than the sword? Then the World
War came, and India was promised self-
government. By that act the British put
it on record that they were oppressors, or,
at best, had no right to govern India. The
ground was cut from under the feet of the
Administration, and the old position can
never be regained. In fact, things must
become progressively worse.
I think, therefore, that the control of India must
be surrendered to the literary Indians, and that we
must recognise that it is no longer in our power to
interfere in the internal administration. Let our
abdication then be full and complete, and let us
recognise, once for all, that we have laid aside
not only our rights, but our duties.
But Britain has material interests in India
which need to be protected against the
apparatus of legis-
lation, corrupt monopolies and the like.
And it will be centuries before the Indians
are fit for constitutional government as the
West understands it. So he suggests neither
a federated India, which would be as im-
practicable as a federated Europe, nor a
sudden evacuation, which would produce
anarchy, but the appointment of a powerful
native prince as king:—
Entrust to him the whole administration of India
in all its branches, passing the necessary legislation
and conferring on him by patent all the regalities
of the British crown... . Let him acknowledge by
formal act that the Crown of England is his suzerain,
and that his suzerain possesses the power to change
the person of the ruler and, in extreme cases, the
dynasty. That done, and the ruler installed, abolish
the India Office and leave the mutual affairs of
Great Britain and India to be adjusted by diplomacy.
Let the foreigh world clearly understand that Britain
has a peculiar and privileged position in India, and
that India is not open to foreign conquest and
spoliation.
India wouldn’t be governed half so effici-
ently under such an arrangement, but some
Indians would gain in self-respect. The
nation, as the saying goes, would “possess
its soul.”
No.
Sir Harcourt Butler lacks the glowing
style of the author of “The Lost Dominion”
and “The Garden of Adonis,” but his ex-
perience of India is much wider. He has
worked there for over 40 years as minor
civil servant, Foreign Secretary, Minister
for Education and
Governor of
Burma; he intro-
duced the Chelms-
ford - Montagu
reforms, abolished
human sacrifice in
Burma and helped to found universities,
Moslem and Hindu. He begins India In-
sistent (Heinemann; 3s. 6d.) with a sketch
of the country which emphasises its differ-
ences; dwelling on its vast size and its
population of 350 millions, who include
Pathans, Gurkhas, Brahmins, Moslems and
Rajputs, w r ho range in color from almost
white to coal-black, and who speak 12 main
languages and over 200 dialects. Nearly
all these races either hate or despise one
another:—
Every evening at dusk from Calcutta to Peshawar
the jackals come out from their hiding-places of
the day and utter their peculiar and piercing cry.
It is one of the few signs of unity in India.
Religion is the master divider.
Here in this mystical India, the deities hover and
swam,
Like the wild bees heard in the treetops, or the
gusts of a gathering storm.
The 170,000,000 caste Hindus include count-
less castes and sub-castes, and outside the
caste system are 75,000,000 classed as
Hindus but untouchable. “Even their
shadow throws defilement, and if it rests
on food that food must be thrown away.”
The more virile Moslems number 80,000,000.
and the martial Sikhs only 4,000,000. Are
these hostile races and sects any closer to-
gether than at previous periods in India’s
long history of autocracies varied by re-
volutions? The writer quotes Lord Law-
rence’s phrase: “India is quiet, yes, quiet
as gunpowder.” Revolution, he says, is
in the nation’s blood. Riots between Hin-
dus and Moslems are as rife as ever they
were
The 'Moslems cannot forget that they were for
centuries a ruling race and that the Hindus were
their; subjects. Nor in times of excitement, when
the word goes round that the British will leave
India, as has happened four times in the last 40
years, can the Moslems put aside the hope that
with the help of their co-religionists outside they
may re-establish their rule.
He admits that the literates understand
that their country was promised self-govern-
ment, by the Government of India Act
(1919). But then India has very-few liter-
ates:—
Not 10 per cent, of th<j population is literate in
their own vernaculars: Only 16 out of every
1000 males in India are literate in English; only
-two out of every 1000 females,
Ihe advocates of self-government are to
a great extent professional agitators with
a Moscow complex, who, without much idea
of what is to be done when and if their
ideals are accomplished, demand “the with-
drawal of the British, the extinction of their
trade, and repudiation of all public debts.”
And all this at a time when stable govern-
ment is urgently needed in the interests of
the masses, the price of silver in which the
capital of the poor is locked up being ex-
ceptionally low, and the prices of agricul-
tural produce being lov 7 er than they have
been for half a century. So he concludes
that the British can’t leave India, and that
it they did the Indians couldn’t govern it.
It is not an empire but, a world question
By leaving the country to its own devices
at present a vacuum would be created which
would almost certainly cause another world
war.
RED PAGE.
Melba and Malice
A orman Lindsay, in a cabled comment on
Beverley Nichols’s “Evensong,” is reported
to have said that Melba once told him she
“hated Australia.”
This, though probably a conversational
exaggeration thrown off in the heat of the
moment and not intended for repetition
is rather interesting. With Mr. Nichols we
are not concerned. There is an Oriental
proverb which seems to cover his case:
“The horses of the Pasha came down to
tne water to be shod; the beetle stretched
out his leg, too.”
The question that arises is, if Melba did
say she hated Australia., had she any justi-
fication for so doing?
It is certainly a curious fact that—outside
Conservatorium coteries, personal friends
and genuine music-lovers—few Australians
seem to have grasped her unique significance.
The general attitude towards her seemed to
be a kind of amused toleration—even a
faint patronage. This was, psychologically
speaking, remarkable. Imagine if she had
been an American. What deafening pub-
licity would have preceded her visits to her
“home-town”!
How is the apathy of the majority of
her compatriots to be explained? Is the
ordinary Australian too aggressively insular
to comprehend a European reputation? Or
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING —The Highest Ideal.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Anthony Horderns'
Where Everything for the Farmer
COSTS LESS and LASTS LONGER
Make Your Own
Flyproof DOORS
and WINDOWS
In this list will be found all the material needed to
build strong, serviceable Screen Doors and Windows.
Flies are a dangerous enemy to the community—they
act as germ and disease-carriers. Be wise and keep
them outside the home.
è
Material for Doors
We supply these in sets com-
prising—
-1 set Dressed Timber and Beading
1 set of Six Corner and Centre
Brackets
1 pair of Spring Hinges
1 Door Handle, Brads and Tacks
and sufficient Woven Wire to
complete.
6ft. lOin. 7ft.
For Doors x x
up to— 2ft. lOin. 3ft.
With Oregon
Timber and
By using the Corner and Centre Brackets supplied
with sets no mortising is required, thus enabling the
amateur to make and fit a fly door equal in every way
to any fly door on the market.
NOTE.—The timber in these sets is cut for approxi-
mately 7ft. x 3ft. doors. Before setting up, measure
off size required for YOUR door and cut accordingly.
Oregon Wood Sets only, to make doors up to 7ft. x
3ft. Anthony Horderns’ Prce, set 6/9
Redwood Wood Sets only, to make doors up to 7ft. x
3ft. Anthony Horderns’ Price, set 6/9
Half-round Redwood Beading, per 7ft. length 7d.
Woven Wire, Insect Proof
1 2-mesh.
14-
GALVANISED.
PERFORATED ZINC.
Size of sheet, 7ft. x 3ft. x
8-gauge, fly-proof, 64 holes
to square inch. Price, 7/-
sheet, 3/9 half-sheet.
é
Screen Door Catches
Screen Door Catches, bronzed, for fly-
proof doors. Opening outwards.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each, 2/6
2/6
( Department, Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free
Delivery; City and Suburbs only.)
a, »et
ml
One- & Two-wheel Hoe
£4/12/6
No. 11 Double and
Single Wheel Hoe. The
No. 11 is a very com-
plete tool for the home
or market gardener. The 6in. and 4Jin. hoes are
the greatest weedkillers known; the cultivator
teeth give thorough cultivation ; ploughs are used
for opening and closing furrows, hilling up
plants, etc. As with the Double Wheel Hoe, the
gardener can straddle the row until 'the plants
are 20 inches high, cultivating both sides at one
time. Equipment: Pair of 6in. hoes, pair of
44in. hoes, four steel cultivator teeth, pair of
ploughs, two 3-tooth and two 5-tooth rakes, pair
of leaf lifters.
Anthony Horderns’ Price £4/12/6
No. 35 Cultivator
The No. 35 attaches to any
Planet Jr. Double or Single
Wheel Hoe or Garden Plough
except the Fire Fly and No. 19.
It does not take the place of
our standard size seeders, but is made for the
small gardener who has heretofore had to
plant by hand. It saves labor in sowing seed
like the Planet Jr. wheel hoe does in culti-
vating. Furthermore, the sowing is done
better. plants will grow in narrower,
straighter rows, permitting closer wheel hoe-
ing, and cutting out hand hoeing and weeding.
The No. 35 sows practically all vegetable seeds
at the right depth and thickness, and covers
them evenly. The index is simple; the change
from one seed to another is quickly made.
Will sow one pint or a 3d. packet down to the
last seed.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 35/-
35/-
f' - ' :v..
Em
m
r _. k.'J- : ’■-: ; i
m
PIA
net
Jr
m
S£S
Hill and Drill Seeder
No. 25 Hill and Drill Seeder
Double and Single Wheel
Hoe Combined. Includes tlie
Double as well as the Single
£7/2/6
Wheel Hoe, enabling the gardener to straddle the
rows until the plants are 20 inches high, culti-
vating both sides at one time. Equipment in-
cludes a pair of garden ploughs, four steel
cultivating teeth, one pair of 6in. hoes, and
leaf lifter.
Anthony Horderns’ Price £7/2/6
No. 220 Distributor
The No. 220 will dis-
tribute fertilizer in tlie
middles of three rows
12 to 14 inches apart;
£B|lo/-
it will side-dress one
side eacli of two rows up to 30in. apart (one
complete row) and corn in.wider rows. Can
be used in 45- to 48-inch rows by closing off
the flow in three spouts and distributing
through the other three. Spreads fertilizer
from 4 to 30 inches on the ground. The hoppei
capacity is one bushel, and the weight of the
load is placed over the wheel, making it easy
to push. It will distribute 100 to 2000 pounds
of commercial fertilizer to the acre.
Anthony Horderns’ Price £B/10/-
ê
No. 300 Drill Seeder
A Seeder for all
types and con-
ditions of soil
The substantial,
wide tread
£6/12/6
wheels, front and rear, are not only easier
running but cover more evenly than you
have ever before seen. This is important
on light, spongy, muck, and sandy soils.
New Principles in Seed Dropping—ln the
dropping of the seed an entirely new prin-
ciple is used. A “wave” cast-iron feed wheel
operates . in a smooth cast-iron . hopper
base, dropping any kind or size of seed
accurately, without breaking any of the
seed.
Anthony Horderns’ Price
£6/12/6
ë
Horse Hoe and Cultivator
No. 8 Horse Hoe and Cul-
tivator Combined. Tli e
Planet Jr. No. 8 Horse
Hoe and Cultivator is one
of the most valuable time-
£6/2/6
and labor-saving tools available for the use of the
farmer. Steel wheel does not clog; frame is longer
and higher than others; steel standards are so
attached as to both brace the cultivator and with-
stand strain; levers operate quickly and easily; has
depth regulator. Equipment includes four 3xB inch
cultivator steels, one 4xB inch cultivator steel, two
6in. hillers, one 7in. shovel, all especially hardened.
Anthony Horderns’ Price £6/3/6
No. 7 Horse Hoe and Cultivator, same as No. 8, but
without depth gauge.
Anthony Horderns’ Price £5/13/6
(Department, Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD., SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


■
■
: :
mm
i n
llii
■j
Tirsjz\r^
r SPARK.LIKQ
l m
m
m
V.k*
—*
ē
often - Glacier w>ltaf tke
If so precious
C) «•: o
asi
they
vn
' <*w -,,,, i
;i
s
Hi
Hi
7X
mmm
jWjHHHHB, . .' - Stwiftne*
<£ «r wfllf ;/
. ■
“Not a bite in
a bottle —
McCallums for n
me even) time!"
(DTaiiums
(tlhiskv
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
BARTLAMS LTD., Townsville. NORTHERN AUSTRALIAN BREWERIES, LTD., Cairns.
MACFARLANE BROS, k CO., I-Iobart.
Lumbago
DON’T LINGER ON IN
PAIN AND SUFFERING!
“Oh! oh! my back—it’s nearly breaking. I can’t get
straight again once I stoop down. It seems just as though
an iron hand is gripping me, wrenching the muscles, making
me just sick with pain” ....
How many thousands of men and women, victims of
torturing lumbago, could repeat these words? How many
have come to the brink of breakdown by chronic symptoms
that actually reveal deep-seated kidney trouble?
POISONS IN YOUR BLOOD ARE
CAUSING YOUR SUFFERING
It is vitally important that you should realise the fact that
the pain you suffer is caused by poisons in the blood, for then
you will know that the only rational method of ending your
trouble is to prompt the kidneys to their natural work of
keeping the blood free from pain-giving impurities.
Thousands of one-time sufferers, now restored to health,
will tell you there is no surer, safer, more certain and inex-
pensive remedy for lumbago, chronic backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, bladder trouble and all the sure signs of kidney
trouble, than De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. Where all
other remedies fail, in cases where men and women have been
bed-ridden, or perhaps have suffered—not weeks, but years—
De Witt’s Pills have banished the old pain and restored health.
... . _ . ....... \\ A\\l I I lili/l / '//////////X'XtfsS's .
De WITTS
KIDNEY AND BLADDER
ĕ
THIS REMEDY
BEARS A DEFINITE
GUARANTEE
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills carry a very definite guar-
antee to show results in 24 hours
from the very first dose. The
color of the urine tells you these
strength-restoring pills are acting
directly on the kidneys. But be
sure you obtain the genuine
remedy. Don’t be misled by any
imitation or substitute—see the
name clearly on the package.
When you have the true De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
cost but 3/6 per box, you may be
assured you have really started on
the road to permanent health and
strength. Ask your chemist how
good they are.
TERRIBLE PAINS IN BACK
RELIEVED.
Mr. W. Monagham, Second
Avenue, Canipsie (N.S.W.), says :
“Owing to working in the damp
basement of building, I was
troubled with terrible pains in my
back, and could not stand straight.
A friend recommended De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, and
one bottle was sufficient to relieve
me. I have never had any return
of my trouble since.”
Mr. W. H. Curtis, 31 Wright
Street, Adelaide, writes: “About
five years ago I was laid up for
sixteen weeks with neuritis and
rheumatism, partially paralysed.
I was recommended De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
I am happy to say pulled me
through. I am 74 years of age
and still able to hold my own
with younger men. I have en-
joyed the best of health ever
since.”


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
PRACTICAL BIRTH CONTROL, by Hornibrook, 5/-
Married Love by Dr. Marie Stopes, 3/3; Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/10 ; Sex .at
Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 11/5; The Science of a New Life by Cowan, 7/10; Enduring-
Passion, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Contraception—Birth Control, its theory, Histoiy and Practice,
bv Marie Carmichael Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the
Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/10;. The New Toxology—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/-; The Sex
Factor in Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/9; Sex Knowledge by N March, 1/8; Love and
Marriage by Scott Hall, 13/3; Exercises for Women, by Hornibrook, 5/4; Secrets of Successful
Marriage bv Dr. G. Courtenav Beale, 10/4 ; Realities of Marriage, by Dr, G. Courtenay Beale,
10/4; Youth and Maidenhood, by W. M. Gallichan, 4/6; The Perfect Wife, by Dr. G.
Courtenay Beale, 1/11; The Happy Lover, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; Eugenics and Birth
Control, 'by J. Rutgers, M.D., 15/6; Pitfalls of Marriage, by W. M. Gallichan, 6/3; Wise
Wedlock by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/3; Medical Views on Birth Control, 6/4; Canary
Breeding for Beginners, 2/9; Physical Culture Simplified—A Complete Course ol Physical
Culture, 6/3; Better Sight Without Glasses, by H. Benjamin, 6/4; The Culture of the
Abdomen, by Hornibrook, 7/10; Sex Problems and Their Solution, by Haydn Brown, 5/5,
NEW TECHNICAL HANDBOOK, 1932, FOR
MECHANICS.
Fowler’s Electrical Engineer’s Pocket Book, 1932.
Price, S/6 Posted.
Fowler’s Mechanic’s and Machinist’s Pocket Book, 1932.
Price, 3/9 Posted.
Mechanical World Year Book, 1932. Price, 3/- Posted.
The Woodworker Annual. Price, 12/- Posted.
Sexual Science, by Dr. A. A. Phillip, 4/6; Knowledge a Young Husband Should Have, by
Phillip 4/6- Knowledge a Young Man Should Have, by Phillip, 4/6; Knowledge a Young
Woman Should Have, bv Phillip, 4/6; The Book of Nature, 3/9; Contract Bridge, by Ely
Cuthbertson, 8/6 ; Contract Bridge in Twenty Minutes, 1/11 ; How to Become an Eftective Public
Speaker 2/2 ; Mayes’ Australian Builder’s Price Book, 16/6 ; Menus Made Easy, by Nancy Lake,
5/4; Cocktails and How to Mix Them, 3/11; Aust. Nuts and Nut Growing in Aust., by Rumsey,
2/4 * Foulsham’s Letter Writer, 3/4; Chambers’s Twentieth-century Dictionary, 13/4; Cards for
Three by Basil Dalton, M.A., 3/1: Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up to Date”), 2/8;
Popular Card Games and How to Play and Win, by F. Ings, 1/5; The Book of Luck, by H. G.
Souter, 1/5; Foulsham’s Best Short Prose Recitations, 3/4; House’s Canary Manual, 2/9; Table
Rapping, 2/6; 12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6; Ward Lock’s Letter Writer
for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2 ; The Companion Letter Writer, 2/8;
How to Read the Hand, by Karma, 4/-; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/11; Plumbing,
Soldering and Brazing for Amateurs, 1/11; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/11; Upholstery
for Amateurs, 1/11; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5 ; Cassell’s Concise English Dictionary, 3/2;
Painting, Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/6; Every Man His Own Mechanic, 9/-;
Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/1; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 3/-;
Boot and Shoe Repairing, 1/11; Clock and Watch Repairing, 1/11 ; Double-bed Dialogues, 1/2 ;
Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 6/-; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 26/-; Napoleon’s
Book of Fate, 3/4; Zadkeil’s Dream Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4; Cheiro Guide to the Hand,
4/1; The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3; Universal Trade Reckoner, 4/3; Bulletin
Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Prospecting for Gold (Australian), by
lon Idriess, 5/6; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; A to Z of Australian Fruit-
growing, by Rumsey, 2/2 ; Fortune Telling by Tea-leaves, 2/- ; Diesel Engine, by Jones
Special Price —15/-; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 5/3; 1001 Riddles, New and Old, 2/2;
Lee’s Guide to the Game of Draughts, 4/6; Chess Lessons for Beginners, 2/6; Chess and
Draughts, by Belasco, 1/5; How to Repair and Restring Tennis Racquets, 3/-.
Try the Bookstall Co. First
WRITE FOR LISTS OF BOOKS ON SUBJECTS IN WHICH YOU ARE INTERESTED.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
are we so democratic as to resent the exist-
ence of a tall poppy even m the realm, oi
a For there can be no question of Melba s
position and prestige. No other soprano
came within hailing distance of her durin.,
her lifetime. Take this reference to her,
recently met with in the reminiscences oi a
violinist: “What a lovely voice it was.
What timbre! And how dead m tune.
Could more be said of a coloratura sopiano.
Moreover, in the case of Melba, it was
true. The same writer adds that no other
musician ever impressed her personality on
London as she did. Yet, when she brought
grand opera here, at considerable finan-
cial risk, in leaving the theatre did
one overhear enthusiastic comments on
the still delicious voice, and the supreme
art of its production? Alas! more
than likely the remark intercepted would
be something disparaging about her acting.
Whatever her dramatic ability may have
been in younger days, it was, at that time
more than equal to operatic requirements.
The play is not the thing in grand opera ;
it never seems to have occurred to anyone
to cavil at Bernhardt for not being able to
achieve the high C.
Melba’s generous kindness to musicians
fallen on "evil days is proverbial and
authenticated. Nevertheless, when hei
efforts for the disabled soldiers and the
enormous sums she had raised for all the
war charities were being gratefully referred
to, one intelligent lady declared: “Oh! but
that’s not generous. That’s nothing to her.
She only has to sing once to fill the hall.
For crass stupidity and muddled thinking
that is surely hard to beat. When the early
stories of snubs are recalled, one can only
marvel at the grit that eventually enabled
her to fill a hall with one song.
She was essentially a kind-hearted woman.
Blanche Marchesi in her memoirs tells us
how greatfy Melba’s consistent loyalty
cheered her declining days. The last time I
saw her she did a kindly thing. The occa-
sion was a private reception at which a
musical programme had been arranged,
Melba being one of the guests. A young
girl was about to begin her song; but both
she and her accompanist found it impos-
sible to challenge the attention of the
people amid the clatter of teacups and the
din of the chatter. Melba stood up, rapped
for silence and said, authoritatively:
“Everyone keep quiet, please. Miss Blank is
going to sing for us,” quickly extricating the
novice from an embarrassing dilemma.
Recollecting the petty gossip, carping criti-
cism and general lack of appreciation that
were apt to surround the lady who put Aus-
tralia on the map, it would scarcely be
surprising if she did not, on quitting her
native shores, suffer in any marked degree
from nostalgia.
CONSTANCE E. LEWERS.
Sydney as a Theme
The hesitation felt by A. H. Chisholm in
naming his new book of nature studies,
based on observations near Sydney, seems
to have been heavily augmented by some-
one’s insistence on the hostility between
Melbourne and Sydney. As one who was
bom and bred in Victoria and who lives
mostly, in Melbourne, I wish to protest.
Where is this absurd hostility found, ex-
cept, perhaps, in the ad hoc slogans of a few
commercial travellers, for whom any stick
is good enough to beat their drum?
To one Melbourne person who has spent
odd minutes, days a'nd weeks in Sydney, the
Mother City is like something in a dream.
Putting out of mind certain miles of mon-
otonous dusty inland suburbs that never see
the harbor or the ocean, streets that might
be in the worst parts of many a modern
city, one remembers some of the boons,
some of the plus. Take these at random out
of the big basket. Sydney has:
At its front door, the harbor (and • the
bridge).
At its back doors, many superb surf
beaches.
Kuring-gai Chase.
The Mitchell Library.
Beautiful building stone.
Castle Crag on Middle Harbor.
Anyone else would add to these; yes, any
Melbourne person who had not, just a
moment before, been unfairly twitted with
jealousy of Sydney. But I have not men-
tioned one aspect of Sydney that is prob-
ably the theme of Mr. Chisholm’s new book
—its decorative wild growth. Anywhere
from the shimmering heaths of Botany Bay
to the miles of rocky gorges near Wah-
roonga, the eye is taken by varied and
lovely forms in shrub and tree and flower,
nearly all nameless to you and me. As
Mr. Chisholm says, a “Natural History of
Sydney” would not be unreasonable when
we remember that a man made a natural
history out of Selborne—a small place with
its flora and fauna already fairly well known
to ordinary people. A natural history of
Sydney, or of some tiny comer of that
huge complexity that we call Sydney, would
mean the opening of countless doors in
literature and science. So far our poets can
write only in vague terms, as when Mary
Fullerton cries out in delight upon some
small unnamed flower:
A spory wonder singing with its sap
And all around the uncomprehending bush.
Uncomprehending bush and mankind!
Meanwhile, when the new book arrives,
this “Nature Fantasy in Australia,” I, for
one, mean to write in the rejected sub-title,
“A -Natural History of Sydney,” and witn
g
NETTIE PALMER.
A Satchel of Books
Bracken, by Bernard Cronin (Jarrolds ,
7s. 6d.). This is the eighth Bulletin
serial to go into stiff covers and is Cronin s
most serious work in fiction. In the
chapters there are some exceedingly hne
descriptions of the effect on Jasper s mind
of the battle with the bracken, before nc
goes to the city to battle with human
beings. Had Cronin been able to present
as striking a picture of the struggle in the
city as he had done of the struggle on
the Gippsland holding, “Bracken would
have ranked among the best half-dozen books
ever produced in Australia.
Derby Day, by A. P. Herbert (Methuen;
2s. Gd.). The libretto of a musical comedy.
It is an attempt to use English low-lire as
a topic for a romantic musical play, but it
lias that faintly patronising air most
“Punch’'" writers adopt when depicting the
lower orders, who know how to amuse them-
selves much better than their chroniclers«
imagine.
The Golden Carpet, by Alice Williamson
(Chapman and Hall; 7s. Gd.), consists ot
two longish short stories and a novelette
all about the Foreign Legion. There is also
an epilogue on the same subject entitled
“A Hundred Years of France, in Algeria.
If your illusions about the romance of the
desert and the charm of the Legionnaires
are intact you will like the book, for Mrs.
Williamson is a skilled storyteller.
The blurb on the dust-cover of Contract
Bridge Up-to-date, by J, Hope . Reford
(Hutchinson; ss. Gd.), claims that it will
reduce your bridge handicap to scratch or
plus figures.” Whether it does or not it will
interest you if you are one of those who
take an intelligent interest in the game. Ihe
principles of hand valuation and bidding
standards are lucidly explained,, and there is
a brilliant chapter (with specimen hands)
on the vexed question of responses. The
summary contains 20 test-match hands
with comments on the play. Hr. Hope
lieford may be termed England s Ely Cul-
bertson : he writes better and is said to play
as well.
The heir-apparent to the Nusnad of
Syedpur was the son of Sir Mahmud Khan,
V.C., and Sheelagh O’Murtagh. They sent
him to Eton, he had unlimited money, Bere-
nice liked him and lie loved her —but he
was a “native.” So he decided bitterly to go
back to India. Comes a. car accident, vigil by
Berenice, the doctor’s verdict: “He will
live.” And Berenice owns up :
“Can’t you understand? I —l love you .J 0 , 1 )
as you love me. I’ve always loved you. I didn t
know it, hut I did.”
And yet the perverse and, if the truth be
told, somewhat priggish young man leaves
her and goes back to “try to teach my
people to love England as I love her. Such
is Lady Flavia Giffard’s Keep Thy Wife
(Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d.). There are
some pleasing pictures of life in the higher
reaches of London _ society, and a gc*>d deal
of propaganda against Swaraj.
And a Little Verse
THE MOTH.
Out of the ink-black night you came,
Brown wings a-fluttering;
Ceased your mysterious nocturnal game
To heed the guttering
Yellow flame.
And I,
With glistening eye
And strangely bated breath,
Watched your erratic flight
Towards that light
And death-cruel death.
Poor wilful foolish moth!
Poor scorched unshapen wings!
I saw you fall,
And on the wall
The grotesque mimicry
Of shadowy witchery
Portrayed your agony.
You heeded not my cry—■
Beware!
You did not care.
And now you lie
So still,
No more to fly
The sweet night air.
And softly a night-bird sings
Thy funeral hymn.
Poor foolish moth! Poor brown singed
wings!
S.A.
J. C. GORDON.
THE SEA.
Some folk they sing of mountains,
And some folk sing of plains,
And some of leaping fountains,
Of blossom-time' and rains.
But were the singing left to me,
My song would be about the sea.
I’d sing of far-off ports in places
That colored all my boyhood’s dreaming,
Of tropic islands, colored races,
Of booming surf and seabirds screaming;
Of cliffs and rocks and sands all golden,
And coral reefs and palms, and winking
Lights that show o’er seas, like moulden
Metal, where the stars are sinking.
I’d sing of ships of strange devices;
Of foreign countries, foreign ages;
Of lands of cocoanuts and spices,
And snowlands where the blizzard rages.
I’d sing of sunlit wastes, and roaring
Winter gales the shipping routing,
And great white birds for ever soaring,
And flying-fish, and sperm whales spout-
ing;
And pirates grim and bearded sailors,
And buccaneers and cold steel ringing,
And merchantmen and lonely whalers:
Of all ‘these things I would be singing.
Some folk they sing of cities,
And some folk sing of towns
(And all these folk one pities),
And rivers, fields and, doicns.
But give me leave my song to bring.
And it’s the great green sea I’d sing.
N.S.W.
ALAN D. MICKLE .
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
and address must appear on the MS. No liability w undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W.F.W.: You beg us to be candid. Then
tear the others up. To begin with, your ear is
completely out of tune or it would be tortured by
some, of your desperate rhymes....H.F.H.: Go on
writing for another 12, then submit something....
Inez B.: Obscure... .Geoffrey P.: An idea; but too
overweighted with things like “penumbral fire” and
“spaeial time”... .E.D. (W.A.) : Another that just
misses. Seems to be a rare case of over-compression.
....James K.: Doggerel... .K.K.: (1) Yes, they do.
(2) Try something not so impressionistic. The last
line is bathetic. .. .11. G.: No it isn’t. But there’s
always hope for a chap who can grin at himself....
0.5.: If you knew it was going to turn out a dud
—and it is; —why did you go on with it?... .R. 8.:
Delete Americanisms, think out a logical ending,
and send it in again... .C.J.S.: Explaining that the
thing was only a dream is a novice’s trick....
D. 11.: Didn’t induce us to unlock the cash-b0x....
R.K.P.: Better call it “White Author’s F011y”....
W.G.8.: You could have made a stronger yarn with that
material... .A.C.L.: Needs more suspense... .Mawrot:
Some point in it, but you strain sense for rhymes.
T.C.C.:,Weak stuff. You’ll have to make better
pictures than that to succeed in that well-tilled field.
.... Mary R.: Try a shorter line, knock out 70 p.c.
of the adjectives and give Pan six months off.
You’ve got rhythm and a feeling for the soil; don’t
bother with the artificial... . J.S.K.: “And million-
aires are mortal men.” Not always. Often they
are myths... . G.S.M.: We’re glad, anyway, the
neighbors noticed the neatness of the garden path.
.. . .K.A.J.: An idea spoiled by commonplace ex-
pressions. .. .A.S.J.: Where did you get all that
g100m?... .J.N.: No, but it would make a hit in
an autograph album. . . .Mackail T.: Nothing good
in it, not even the grammar... .Hesperian: They’re
not improved; and be thankful for your natural
good taste that tells you 50... .K.A.R.: Not the
weight... .W.A.M.: Commonplace handling didn’t
give it a chance F.J.8.: “Life” too slight and
obvious; the other has more merit, but isn’t
picturesque enough.... N.R.Y.: A good try... .L. 8.:
Lightweight. ...C.W.M.: A sad case; but not poetry.
H.Y.: Herrick said very neatly what you say
very obviously.... Anthony R.: “So the iron entered
into his soul.” A pity—he doesn’t seem to have
made much use of it. v..E.A.Y.: Seem to us to have
made a mess of it E.K.C.: Try us with something
that has real feeling. And here’s a bit of advice:
don’t send a young book of poems to any editor.
It’s your job to do the winnowing, not his....
M. Powell: A nice muted quality. But beware of
hackneyed phrases like ,
And lo the lips of Day have kist
The brow of Night.
. ...H.T.8.: Pretty little sentiments, with corns all
over their feet... .R.E.: If we told people why we
didn’t print their pars, there would be no room for
anything else... .Janie: Bit too declamatory. .. .
R.X.8.: Something of the sort will be published next
month under title of “Handy Hints for the Farm.”
Y. Emma: You ask for a correction of some-
thing which somebody told you appeared in The
Bulletin at some unspecified date. Vagueness could
hardly go further. . ..V.G.: “‘So you love me in
juicy slabs and rather thick slices?’ she neighed in
rising indignation. ‘Dash it, confound you, the
ancestral blue revolts. Cease, Stromboli,’ I inter-
jected.” And so on for 27 pages. You must have
swallowed a talkie H.C.: “Hiking” made us men-
tally footsore.... J.R.P.: Free verse on “Our Bridge,”
eh? And copyright at that:—
Our wondrous Bridge of high attainment
Spanning the waters of our Sydney Harbor,
How came ye there ?
Materialised by some vast giant of the upper air
and placed there in a night!
Or mysteriously woven at the dawn by angels while
we mortals, all unconscious, slept, awoke and
found!
We put the question to the structure on our home-
ward way the other evening, and the wind wafted
back something that sounded like this:—
Go on! You’ve got it absolutely wrong.
I had my genesis from Borman, Long.
Let not your brains poetic fancies fill,
You’ll have to pay ten millions for the bill.
. ...V.K.M.: There’s not a bright patch in it....
W.E.B. : Handled heavily E.D.: Failed to interest.
R.M.: Sobstuff R.C.: All right for novelette
readers J.W.: We want them half that length.
W.C.C.: Neatly told; but you end foggily....
P.S.: They were rather interesting until they began
to open their mouths... .W.A.Y.: Where is the plot?
J.F.L.: Too gloomy.,. .G.S.T.: Will struggle
along without Mick and his garrulous mate E.D.:
Try it elsewhere 0.W.8. J.: Improved, it might
stand a slender chance.... J.8.C.: Stow it away until
the next Kindness to Animals Week R.W.:
Roughly told J.R.R.: Still refuse to admit your
hero, though you’ve made him a bit more present-
able L.W.: Sending Nick home to his roses....
G.H.A.: Sabbath-morning reflections are tame... .
J.W.: Insignificant H.S.: Can’t see Sister Anne
breaking into print... .W.S.: No. .. .R.D.L.: Ends
tamely L.W. (Newcastle) : Only a small kernel
rattles in the shell M. 8.5.: Treatment not worthy
of the good idea... .H.J.: A cheap and nasty yarn.
L.R.: Needs a lot of polishing M.C.: Very
thin J.8.C.: Develop the mystery, cut out the
melodrama and send it in again. .. .A.M.P.: Try a
woman’s paper... .L.E.W.: Story is as wild as your
typing E.R.: Not picking up that pebble
E.McI.: Our valued opinion of your first effort? It
rhymes passably, nothing more H.E.H.: There’s
cleverness in it, catchiness, too, and it would have
a chance in normal times. Just now it hasn’t. .. .
Lucy L.: Passable, but they need more pith and
polish P.M.: It has appeal, but the ending is
weak Quidam: Try it on the doc. yourself.,..
G.L.: Too bad to be anything but original
R.McK.: Something in it, but not quite enough....
N. E. Maid: You haven’t learned the elements of
rhyming. . . .P.L. : Four lines of your stirring con-
tribution to the topic of the month: —
The Bridge, our Bridge, is finished!
To think the great day’s come at last,
And that all the messiness o’ buildin’ it
Is sinkin’ far into the past!
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.H.C.J.: Have seen many worse and heaps
better 5.11. A.: A course of training should help.
.. ..R.J.H.: Lacks polish R.K.G.: Get out of the
habit of making your figures resemble wax dolls and
you may do well W. J.D.: Smarten them up a bit
and think out jokes as are jokes. .. .A.C.H.: Still
below the cheque-earning standard 0.L.: Poor.
J.B.: No punch Y.M.: A “Passing Show”
jest.


ė
ę
☆ vX
mm <£ .. ‘ :
\i
5. >•';■• •f'V- 1
, l' ra&j' ij' v , l|Mpß m
Brandy
mm
1
L R * SEPPEtT & SONS LIMItW
n
ifev SOUTH AUSTHAUA |§3
asK e m
m
ě
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD*


The Bulletin
Vol. 53. —No. 2716.
March 2, 1932.
WILL THEY NEVER LEARN!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
‘Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, V/ Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id, for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for ioz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
IS THERE ANY HOPE FOR US?
Australia will be poor for a good many
years, but there is no reason why it should
be very poor, or why any great number of
its people should be idle. Its position is
different from that of England or the
United States, or any highly-industrialised
country. The United States, for example,
depends largely upon exports of its manu-
factures; it sent even our handful of people
no less than 41 millions of goods in 1927,
and the average for many years was over
37 millions. The United Kingdom in the
same year 1927 sent us 67f millions, and
its average for many years was over 60 mil-
lions. Almost all these exports were of
manufactured goods. We can buy them no
longer; and since other importing countries
are in exactly the same position, the result
is an enormous army of unemployed British
and U.S. factory-workers. Our own exports
of manufactured goods amounted to noth-
ing worth mentioning; we depended upon
wool, wheat, butter, hides and skins, meat,
flour, metals and fruit. Wool, wheat, butter,
flour and fruits accounted for more than
two-thirds of our total; and, though the
prices of these staples are low, we can sell
all we can produce.
And there is something in our favor
beyond that. The highly-industrialised
country was alreadjr supplying its own home
market with manufactured goods. It
very stupid of us to take from the United
States 40 millions a year and send it only
nine millions in return; but at any rate
this now gives us a large margin to work
upon. We may not be able to supply our-
selves with all the 164 millions’ worth of
imports which we took in 1927; but here
at least is a vast amount of work which we
formerly employed others to do and which
we can do for ourselves. It is no answer to
say that we cannot do it at the same price.
Even if it costs us more—and there is no
reason in many cases why it should—it is
better to pay £5 and have the money than
pay £4 and hand the money to someone
else. Certainly we must keep our eye on
the primary producer’s costs, for his pro-
ducts have to go into the world’s markets,
where competition is keen; but his costs
can never be low while he has to carry a
vast army of unemployed on his back and
another very large army of superfluous
public servants, who are not at all likely
to be dispensed with until other work has
been organised for them.
The. problem of the unemployed in Aus-
tralia is, therefore, not nearly as difficult
as it is in highly-industrialised countries.
Thus far, however, we have taken our cue
from these other nations, and, because their
problem is extremely complicated, have
regarded our own as so complicated also
that it is scarcely worth while attacking
it on our own account. We shall never
get out of our difficulties until we change
that attitude.
To begin with, we must realise that this
is a different Australia. In the 10 years
1919-28 our public debt grew from 705 mil-
lions to 1095 millions—an increase of 390
millions. Thus we spent an average of 39
millions a year more than we earned.
Our borrowings have now stopped. We
are in the position of a man who has
been signing p.n.’s to supplement his earn-
ings, and finds that he can borrow no
more. Commonsense tells that man he
must alter his style of living. And he must
alter it all the more because, if. he is
honest, he now has to pay interest on his
debts. If the interest were payable in Aus-
tralia the community would be no worse
off; unfortunately more than half of our
debts of that period were incurred over-
seas: in the last seven years of the boom
this added overseas debt was 174 millions.
Further, the value of our exports has fallen
by more than one-half. They reached 162
millions in 1925; they were no more than
38i millions for the latter half of last year
—say, 77 millions a year. With nearly 30
millions less of foreign loans coming
in, with (say) 50 millions less of
exports and with 8 millions more in-
terest to pay abroad, without taking
exchange into account, there is at least
85 millions less to spend than there was a
few years ago. Compared with 1925 there
is well over 100 millions less. Until we
can increase our production there must be
that much less to distribute among the
community. The first step towards re-
habilitation is the recognition of that most
uncomfortable fact.
Thus far we have refused to recognise
it. We have, it is true, done something to-
wards balancing the Governments’ budgets,
but hardly anything towards balancing the
Nation’s budget. We have cut down rates
of interest payable to Australians; but that
does not add one farthing to the commu-
nity’s wealth or its purchasing power. We
have simply taken from Jones to lighten
the burden on his neighbor Smith. We
have reduced the pay of public servants.
That again has not added a farthing to
the community's wealth or purchasing
power; it has simply taken from Brown to
lighten the burden on his neighbor Thomp-
son. We are collecting millions to spend
on doles and unproductive public works;
and again we are not adding a farthing to
the community’s wealth or purchasing
power,' but merely transferring something
from Johnson’s pocket to make things
easier for Tomkins. All these manoeuvres
may be necessary; but they will get us no-
where.
We made a good beginning by cutting
down imports. But to cut down imports
puts money in nobody’s pocket. It does
not of itself give one man a job; indeed,
it ends employment for some men. But
it does give an opportunity for employing
thousands. Thus far, however, we have
reduced the number in our factories rather
than increased them. So again we have
not added a farthing to the community’s
wealth or its purchasing power. On the
contrary, we are consuming wealth rapidly.
Every man we put on the dole eats into
our little store and makes his re-employ-
ment more difficult.
Our only hope is from increased produc-
tion. We have over 300,000 idle people,
all capable of supporting themselves, all
being supported by somebody else. They
are all potential customers. Every man
of the 300,000 who can be put into a posi-
tion to keep himself makes it easier to
employ another man. The first thing to
realise, as we have seen, is that it is hope-
less to expect him to be employed on the
old terms. It would not matter much what
terms we employed him on if we were self-
contained: that is to say, if we had no
foreign debt charges to meet and were
entirely independent of foreign markets for
goods. So long as we are not, we must
sell in foreign markets: and that fixes the
terms we can offer. But apart from that
there is the obvious fact that, to begin
with, the community is from 80 to 100
millions a year worse off than it was a
few years ago, so far as its ability to spend
on wages or anything else is concerned.
And four-fifths of all spending is on wages.
There is not a problem in Australia
worth a moment’s consideration compared
with this problem of increasing production.
We have seen that, alongside the same pro-
blem in most other countries, ours is a
simple one. We have still a market for
nearly all of our staples and we have the
market for manufactured goods which we
formerly presented to foreign countries.
The absorption of unemployed in the latter
will be slow; the pace will depend upon
two things: (1) realisation that conditions
have entirely changed and that the indis-
pensable primary industries cannot any
longer stand high costs; (2) the speed with
which we put the men who are not now
supporting themselves in a position to
either wholly or partly do so—and that
must be on the land. If we accept these
conditions our recovery is certain. If we
do not, it is impossible.
THE GOVERNOR AND MR. LANG.
Mr. Lang may be a rogue, ready to do
anything that will help him to keep where
he can quickly fill his own pockets; on the
other hand, nothing is surer than that tens
of thousands of people believe him to be
an honest and sincere reformer and desper-
ately in earnest. And it may be that
he believes this himself. But even if he
does not believe it he has to pretend to
believe it; and that being so, how can we
blame the man for hanging on to office?
If he believes the course he is taking is the
right one, then he must believe that the
course his opponents want to take is fraught
with disaster; and in those circumstances he
would be a poor creature if he did not use
every means at his command to keep office
and stave that disaster off.
It is no answer to say that his policy is
dishonest. We have to remember that Mr.
Lang’s party has often said and honestly
believed this about its opponents’ policy.
There was a time when trade unions were
illegal; not 40 years ago it was still pos-
sible to convict and gaol peaceful strike-
leaders like Sleath and Ferguson—men
whom even the law-abiding founders of the
Australian Parliamentary Labor party were
proud to honor. Labor believed that many
planks in its opponents’ legislative and
administrative policy in those days were
flagrantly dishonest. The truth is we can-
not say definitely in every case that this
is honest and that dishonest; what is one
thing and what the other is determined in
the last resort by the majority. So the
crimes of Clapham can be chaste in Marta-
ban ; and it is conceivable that the startling
principles laid down by Mr. Lang to-day
may be accepted by the Privy Council to-
morrow. If he hone.stly believes so, all
the more reason, of course, why he should
cling to office until to-morrow.
Eighteen months ago Lang was returned
to office with a strong Parliamentary
majority; and he still has it. In ordinary
circumstances the possession of that ma-
jority would justify the leader of a Govern-
ment in retaining office; if the circum-
stances were more than ordinary—if, for
example, the Opposition threatened a com-
plete reversal of policy—a Premier would
be justified in fighting hard to retain office.
The one thing which might cause him un-
easiness would be a change of policy on his
own side. There was such a change in
Lang’s case. He declared to the electors
that his party would have nothing to do
with repudiation, and within three or four
months he deliberately defaulted. But a
politician with a much more sensitive con-
science than Mr. Lang probably owns could
get around that difficulty easily enough.
There is always the plea that circumstances
have altered; and when we want to satisfy
ourselves that we have done right, we are
not, as a rule, hard to convince. If Lang
did thus convince himself, then he would
at the same time and by the same process
justify himself in retaining office even in
the face of a change of policy.
All this being so, there has never been a
good reason to expect Lang to voluntarily
retire; and that his opponents never so
ardently desired the retirement of anybody
would be, from his point of view, the best
of reasons why he should hang on. For
it would mean that they had never been
so eager to undo anybody’s policy; and the
more Lang believes in his policy the more
undesirable that reversal would appear.
But there is one man who occupies a
position veiy different from Mr. Lang’s,
and that is Sir Philip Game. As Governor
it is his business to send Ministers to the
country as soon as he is satisfied that they
are no longer in step with the country. It
is very doubtful whether Lang for his part
cares a straw whether he is in step with
the country or not. The modern reformer
with Communist leanings is not troubled
about bow he gets power; he is satisfied to
get it and use it allegedly for the benefit
of the people. If Lang knew he no longer
represented the people it would probably
not give him one moment’s concern; his
Communist connections would certainly de-
ride him if he threw away office
and power for no better reason than that
his constituents, voting for the Federal
Chambers, had turned his policy down flat.
On the other hand, Sir Philip’s business as
Governor is not to consider policies at all,
but only majorities. Whether Lang or
Bavin is the more likely to win salvation
for N. S. Wales is no business of his; all
he is concerned about is whether the man
who has the power has the people behind
him.
While, therefore, Lang no doubt, con-
vinced himself that he was doing more good
for the people through his right-about turn,
Sir Philip Game was entitled to consider
only whether the man who had under-
taken to travel east was entitled to remain
in office though he had now turned and was
travelling west. And while Lang could
justify himself in continuing in office
although the Federal electors had rejected
his candidates with scorn—retaining his
place on the plea that he was the one and
only person to save the people—Sir Philip
Game is entitled only to consider whether
these Federal elections threw any light on
the question, not of Lang’s quality as a
reformer, but on Lang’s claim to still repre-
sent the people.
Lang will hold on to office as long as he
can. From his point of view it is his duty
to do it. Rightly or wrongly, he is not
concerned whether at the moment he
represents the people. Action therefore
must not be expected from him. The re-
sponsibility rests wholly with the Gover-
nor. If he believes the people of his State
are in favor of default and the other things
Mr. Lang stands for, he will not disturb
Mr. Lang. If he does not disturb Mr. Lang,
it can only be because he believes that the
majority of the people approve of Mr.
Lang’s policy of default. Whether in the
latter case he can remain in office and re-
tain his self-respect is a matter, of course,
entirely for his Excellency’s own judgment.
AN EASTERN SUNSET
“How do you regard the events in Shang-
hai?” I asked Lim Sam Kee.
“With equanimity,” replied General Lim.
We were standing in the main temple of
the monastery of Harmonious Tranquillity
watching some workmen who were building
a barge of bamboo and paper. It was to
be burnt at the graveside of a rich defunct,
the owner of several cotton mills; and it
was to be sent up in smoke to form a spirit
vessel to carry him across the Shadowy
River.
“Our modernised and Christianised lead-
ers,” said Lim, “profess to believe that at
Shanghai China is fighting for her national
existence. It is the ruling classes of Japan
who are struggling there for their exist-
ence. When, 80 years ago, the guns of the
American Perry awakened Japan out of
centuries of voluntary isolation to the exist-
ence of the outside world, her leaders had
the choice of two alternatives. They could
either keep Japan in her state of feudal
inefficiency and comparative happiness or
imitate the efficiency and inherit the unrest
and the unhappiness of the West. They
chose the latter alternative.”
Lim took out of the hands of a workman
an object which was obviously intended to
be a replica in miniature of an American
bmousme carried out to the last detail.
I *„v ) . r the use of the dead man,” he
said. Lmina, you see, in her own way is
treading m Japan’s footsteps; but only in
ei own way. Japan has always copied,
hirst she copied everything from us Now
she is copying from you. Imitation is
a poor faculty with which to build
a btate, but _ the Japanese proceeded to
imitate the West down to the last button.
I hey saw that Britain was able to push
liei goods, and that she had the world’s
most powerful navy. So they imitated
Britain s navy. They observed that Ger-
many was respected—and hated—because
she had the most efficient army. So they
imported Prussian officers to forge an army
whose only purpose could be the conquest
of the continent of Asia. They noticed
that the most superficially stable of the
great nations of the West had all-powerful
bureaucracies, so they turned the fighting
samurai into civil servants in frock-coats
and tall hats. They observed that in
every European country an established
church was the most potent weapon of
government, so they invented the secular
religion of Shinto.”
The note of a deep-toned bell summoned
the yellow-robed monks to their midday
meal of rice and lentils, and we followed
them into the big dim refectory.
“ The progress of Japan,” proceeded Lim,
has been remarkable. In 1894 she was
able to defeat China, though the Great
Powers altruistically appropriated the re-
wards of her military success, as they
thought rewards might be bad for her. In
1904 she beat the mighty power of Russia
to its knees and occupied part of Man-
churia and annexed Korea. But the people
remained unsatisfied, and in 1918 the mili-
tary rulers decided that it was the mission
of Japan to plant the flag of the Rising
Sun on the Urals. They invaded Siberia,
spent 600 million yen and the lives of 1000
soldiers and then withdrew,- while the dis-
appointed people became more restless than
ever. So in 1931 the army marched into
Manchuria. Their most important success
has been to arouse the frantic envy of the
navy, which in its turn is now engaged on
the task of conquering China.”
Lim invited me to the cell whither poli-
tical vicissitudes had driven him, and where
he was now engaged on the composition
of a poem concerning a wild duck.
'‘But these triumphs of arms and diplo-
macy,” he resumed, as he rubbed up his
inkstick, “have not been bought for no-
thing, and to be successful they must be
continuous. In order to make the Japanese
into a docile weapon for aggression their
leaders have had to suppress in them many
desires that make a normal human being’s
life worth living. To-day, despite their
military tyrants, the Chinese are freer
than the Japanese, who are a race enslaved
to a set. of ideas and ideals which are
as anachronistic in this modem age
of science as the machinery which keeps
them in subjection is modemly efficient.
What the bureaucracy calls 'dangerous
thoughts’ and what most Westerners would
call ordinary commonsense are spreading
in Japan and threaten the very basis of
the present Government. Between the pro-
letariat of the Mikado’s increasing but far
from happy family and the bureaucracy,
there is no middle-class to check the accel-
eration of Japanese society towards disin-
tegration.”
Lim stopped his discourse while he wrote,
with one continuous movement, a char-
acter that had a trembling beauty quite
apart from its formal meaning.
“As the great Lao-Tsze said,” he con-
cluded, “what makes a kingdom great is
its being like a down-flowing river—the
central point towards which all the smaller
streams converge; or like the female
throughout the world who by quiescence
overcomes the male. China has seen many
conquerors—Mongol, Manchu and Euro-
pean; and she has ended by absorbing all
of them. Now it is Japan’s turn. The
Japanese rulers may kill a few thousand
more of my fellow-countrymen and save
their own cities from being looted by loot-
ing a few more Chinese cities; but they
will not make their own people any happier.
“Who is it,” he added, “that knows the
real cause of Heaven’s hatred? The great
rulers of Japan have welded their people
into a great nation—a very great nation.
They have done it very quickly—in the
space of two generations. But their ideal
of nationalism, which they copied from the
West, in the West itself, is beginning to
become old-fashioned. They copied the
money-grubbing of the West, but between
one lot of money-grubbers and the other
Western civilisation is beginning to go to
pieces. They copied the economics of tho
West, but already the West is beginning
to discover that its economists are turning
civilisation into a huge workhouse where
some work and more and more are not
allowed to work, but must have their food
given to them. They have equipped them-
selves with Western machinery just at the
time that the West has realised that the
machine, under the existing system, only
serves to create a greater and greater army
of superfluous workers unable to buy what
the machine can make. And to grapple with
these gigantic problems they have a clan
army and a clan navy able to plunge the
country into war regardless of the wishes of
the Government, a cast-iron bureaucracy,
a corrupt puppet Parliament and a patheti-
cally ignorant proletariat.... Would you
permit me to read you these insignificant
verses?”
FENG-SHUL


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New Tariff.
Fori® had the right idea when he brought in
his tariff schedules. We had been importing
annually at the rate of, say, 145 millions.
Our staples, which had not reached that
total for years, had suddenly dropped m
value more than half in some cases. We
had big public interest bills to pay abroad,
and, our gold stocks being very low, we had
to depend on the surplus of exports over
imports. Over the price of the exports we
had no control; and' it was impossible to
increase the volume instantly or even very
quickly. Our only hope of avoiding default
in our overseas interest payments was,
therefore, to put the lid on imports and sit
on it. Forde did it and the plan was a
complete success. We were not only saved
from certain default, but to-day partly, no
doubt, as the result of the exchange—the
Commonwealth Bank has over 17 millions
of funds in London. The question therefore
arose whether it was not possible to modify
Forde’s schedules.
But while we have got 17 millions of
funds in London, we have lost gold to a
greater amount. Formerly our banks held
about 30 millions of bullion; the holding
against Commonwealth notes —and we have
only about 3 millions besides—is now only
10 millions. Thus the work the gold hold-
ing formerly did now has to be done by
the London funds. They are our reserve
against contingencies, just as formerly our
gold holding was. But for our gold holding
we could hardly have escaped default; if
we weaken our funds in London we may
before long be in just as grave difficulties
again.
Anything in the way of a reversal oi
Forde’s policy, or even extensive modifica-
tion of Forde’s schedules, is accordingly
not to be thought of. It is not a question of
Protection or Freetrade, not a question
even of whether the Treasury can afford the
loss of revenue which extensive modification
might cause. It is a question of maintain-
ing a surplus of exports oyer imports so
that we can keep our foreign debts paid.
Any modification which would open the
door to imports without unquestionably
producing an immediate increase in exports
is not possible if we want to do the honest
thing by our creditors. What could be done
was to pare down duties where they
had been in clear excess of the amount
which ought to be necessary to shut out
imports. To give protection beyond that
is simply to invite excessive prices at a
moment when costs must come down.
Present Minister Gullett seems to have that
safe principle pretty well in view; and it
is to be hoped that his friends of the
Country party will be broadminded enough
to admit that he dared not go further.
♦
Lincoln and Lang.
Mr. Lang is an accepted authority on the
tin hare, but what he doesn’t know about
history would fill a Parliamentary library.
In his State-election literature the public
was informed that Disraeli got the money
for the Suez Canal purchase by a happy
blend of statesmanship and bushranging—
by, in fact, threatening that if the Bank
of England did not furnish it he would
break the Bank of England. Some of the
Langsters enlarged on this ridiculous
moving-picture story, in which there is not
a vestige of truth, and suggested, amidst
cheers, that Disraeli had indicated the way
to get “credits” from the banks.
Their leader has now invoked history, as
he imagines it, to justify resistance to the
National Government, which is bringing
his Government to book for defaulting to
the public creditor and “scabbing” on the
Commonwealth and the sister-States. In
the words of his obsequious newspaper, “a
hush -descended on the Assembly when Mr.
Lang, in measured words, traced the issues
of the Americal Civil War and applied them
to the Australian situation.” Here are the
“measured words,” as it reports them: —
Every now and then there appears a reference in
the newspapers to the dispute which occurred in
America and culminated in civil war. In America,
the Federation fought the Southern States, not over
any academic question of federation or secession—
that war was caused because the Federal Government
of America wished to impose the high-wage conditions
of the Northern States upon the Southern States,
which had slave conditions.... In this fight in
New South Wales we have the Federal Government
doing the opposite thing to what the Federal Gov-
ernment of America did. Here the Bruce Govern-
ment is endeavoring to impose the low-wage con-
ditions of the other States upon New South Wales—•
the only high-wage State left. The American. Federal
Government won because its cause was right, just
as the New South Wales Government will win be-
cause its cause is right.
Every word of this amazing story is a
fabrication. The wages question never
came into the quarrel between the South
and the North. No Federal Government
tried “to impose high-wage conditions upon
the Southern States”; no Federal Govern-
ment even sought to interfere with slavery
in those States until the third year of the
Civil War, when an abolition decree was
issued by Lincoln as “an act warranted
upon military necessity.” And the abolition
decree applied only to slave States actu-
ally in rebellion against the Union, not to
slave States like Kentucky and Maryland
which (nominally, at least) remained loyal.
Of course, slavery was doomed when the
rebels laid down their arms, but until they
took up arms, no U.S. party, Federalist
Democratic, Whig or Republican, ever
fought a Presidential election with abolition
on its programme.
Nor did the North resort to war till war
was forced on it. The Southern slave-
owners contested the Presidential election
of 1860 on the win-or-wrangle principle.
“If Lincoln is elected we’ll secede, they
said; and secede ten States did, South
Carolina being the first. The senile Buch-
anan let them establish rebel governments
and seize national property without snap-
ping a finger at them during the remaining
four months of his term. Even Lincoln
did nothing but. make eloquent appeals for
peace until the South Carolina fire-eaters
attacked a fort above which the Stars and
Stripes waved. That was war.
The tin-hare Premier perhaps fancies
himself another Lincoln, and he has flatter-
ers willing to feed his vanity by likening
him to Honest Abe; but there is not the
faintest resemblance. Lincoln was no mob-
leader, no bank-smasher, no defaulter, no
lottery-promoter or tin-hare patron, and
no liar. He would have cut his throat rather
than publicly rejoice, as the leader of the
tin-hare Government did. at the “deletion
of that “iniquitous condition the sanctity
of the written contract.” But in some
respects the tin-hare party strikingly re-
calls the Southern Democrats. Some of
those worthies swindled their British
creditors before the Civil War, and blus-
tered about the high moral principles which
actuated them. They gave themselves the
airs of a privileged aristocracy; were un-
conscionably arrogant, and spouted a line
of secession talk which is being employed
here and now. But they from
our tin-hare demagogues in being fighters
from the ground up. The leader of the tin-
hare faction has done no real fighting
(though he talks a lot about it), nor have
his loudest-mouthed supporters. And he has
no following outside Sydney, from which
the North Coast and the Riverina want to
break away as the loyal West Virginians
broke away from the Virginian slaveowners;
and even Sydney rejected his “policy” at
the Federal and the municipal elections. If
the National Parliament remains firm, if
it passes the Financial Agreement Enforce-
ment Act and the National Government
resolutely applies its provisions, they will
see the tin-hare mob scatter and the tin-
hare leader take to his heels.
*
Exchange and the Leg-puller.
The little group of bankers and economists
who have been urging Maoriland to follow
Australia and put up the London exchange
rate to 30 p.c. or more get no comfort from
Professor Gregory, of London, to whom the
National Bank of New Zealand indepen-
dently referred the matter. Even if _an
increase in the rate puts the farmers’ prices
up higher than it lifts his costs, the eminent
Gregory says, the unfavorable influence on
the Government, on wages generally and on
the credit of the country must be taken into
serious consideration, as well as the danger
that a moyement of the kind, once initiated,
may be difficult to check.
All of this is true, as The Bulletin has
been trying to say for 18 months past. But
that does not exhaust the list of dangers
and disabilities. With a high exchange rate
the buyer of our staples does not pay a
penny more for them than with a low
exchange rate. It is true that the seller gets
more; but every farthing of the extra money
this community has to supply. It is thus
the bonus system at its worst, because it
is a backstairs way of collecting and paying
it: the money is collected without any order
or method, and the toll falls quite unevenly.
Further, it is not a straightforward
method; and it stands in the way of a
genuine reduction of costs. Thus for months
past the farmers have been ciying out with
special bitterness about the high price of
galvanised goods—wire and netting and
iron. But, as the Minister for Customs
admitted in the House the other day when
bringing down his new tariff schedule,
owing to the high exchange rate the price
of spelter has gone up £3 Bs. 6d. per ton even
since the last Tariff Board inquiry, and this
means 10s. 4d. per ton added to the cost,
of every ton of galvanised iron made in
Australia. Incidentally, this shows that the
idea, very commonly held, that only im-
ported goods have something added to their
cost'as the result of a high exchange rate
is entirely wrong.
There may be a delay in adjusting prices,
but eventually all costs go up; and mean-
time real reform in the way of reducing costs
is pushed aside. This system of camouflage
and subterfuge and self-deception is no
good. Let us attack the question of costs
honestly and straightforwardly. Nothing we
can do can affect the prices that we as a
community can really get in outside
markets; all we can do is to pull our own_
legs that we are getting more, and perhaps
sneak a bit from our neighbor—until that
disagreeable person wakes up and stops us.
Glass Taxation.
Dear Bulletin,— ln my letter of February
10 regarding Inequitable Taxation, I drew
attention to the unfair burden imposed
upon taxpayers in receipt of income from
property —rents, dividends and interest. I
have since investigated a number of cases
of property owners, formerly in receipt of
large incomes, who, owing to the depression
and heavy taxation, plus Lang legislation
and example in repudiation, are now re-
duced to such a state that their properties,
instead of being a source of income, are
actually a liability, the expenditure in
rates, taxes (without income tax, State and
Federal), repairs, interest, insurance, agents’
charges, etc., exceeding the gross rents re-
ceived. The rents were first reduced by
the depression; then the Federal Labor
Government increased its property rates
and, in addition, imposed a 7i per cent, flat
special tax on property income, which has
now been increased to 10 per cent.; then
the State Government increased its taxes.
The Lang Rent Reduction Act, reducing
the rents by per cent., was passed and
came into force in October, 1931; and
further legislation, including the Mora-
torium Act and the Ejectment Postpone-
ment Act, were passed, making it exceed-
ingly difficult, if not impossible, to recover
rent from defaulting tenants or to evict
them. Many tenants have followed Mr.
Lang’s example in repudiation and will not
pay rentals due, and even seriously damage
the property and fittings if threatened with
eviction. In one case a tenant, who owed
one year’s rent when threatened with evic-
tion, burned under the copper the whole
of the banisters of the staircase, and other-
wise so damaged the property that it will
take three years’ gross rents to pay for the
repairs. . .
The net result of all this is that pro-
perty as an income-producer, particularly
in the city of Sydney, is valueless to-day;
in fact, it is a liability except where pro-
perties are occupied by the owners; and
instead of the Commonwealth Government
receiving a greater income by reason of its
class taxation, it will suffer a tremendous
loss in this State of N. S. Wales. The
failure of the property tax to bring m the
anticipated revenue will mean that personal
exertion rates of tax will have to be in-
creased, unless the Government takes the
step now which was side-stepped by the
Scullin Government for so long, viz., to
balance the budget, not by increasing taxa-
tion (and over-taxing one section of the
community), but by rigid economy and un-
flinchingly cutting down expenditure, with-
out regard to class or its effect on votes.
A typical example of the manner in which
property income has been reduced during
the past three years is the following:
Value of properties, 1929-30 .. £127,009
Unimproved value for Federal
taxation purposes .. /, e,106 , 0 ,i
October, 1931,
1929-30. 1930-31. to Feb., 1932.
Income^ — _ . „
Gross rents .• £7099 £49a9
Expenditure—■ Expenses ex-
it at es: Municipal, ce e d receipts,
water and sewerage, Owner cannot
Federal land tax.. 1107 1319 pay rates, taxes
Repairs .. •• 494 445 and interest
Fire insurance .. 118 , 100 due, and i-
Agents’ commission. . 358 248 compelled to
Sundries .. •• 239 215 seek a further
Interest .. ..398 576 mortgage t o
— —— enable him to
Total property expen- meet his debts
diture .. ..£2711 £2903 and to provide
<mu e a small balance
Net income.. ..£4388 £2056 on which to
live.
Taxation on the 1929-30 income amounted
to £1864, and was paid in 1930-31. This is
not an exceptional case. I have investi-
gated numerous others, and find many
property owners, large and small, in the same
position—no taxable income; but where
there is a small surplus, owing perhaps to
properties being in favored districts, the
owner has the iniquitous Federal Special
Property Tax to pay.
Wffiat is the Federal Government going
to do about it? Is it going to allow the
Scullin Government class taxation to re-
main? The 2s. Special Federal Property
Tax is an injustice to one section of the
community, which section is being sacri-
ficed also by the Communistic N. S. Wales
Government. Surely the Federal Govern-
ment can lift this injustice and use _ its
imagination a little in raising the equiva-
lent income in some other way. Action
should be taken urgently before the great
majority of property owners are irretriev-
ably ruined.—-I am, etc., W. H. L. Walter,
F.C.A. (Aus.)
*
A Look into the Future.
“Solomon Malaprop” sees difficulties.
At present two Premiers are talking about seces-
sion. Lang.wants to cut adrift from his public debt.
Mitchell, of Westralia, professes to be actuated by a
pure and noble craving for a low tariff. But if the
Westralian secession comes off it will probably be
as difficult to collect the interest on the public debt
from Mitchell as from Lang. .
Should secession and repudiation once begin they
may spread. As things are at present, Queensland,
Victoria, Tasmania, S.A., Westralia and the Terri-
tories have paid a little for one defaulter and are
undisguisedly weary. If N. S. Wales continues to
default and if Westralia comes in, secession may
begin to look almost an ordinary sort of thing.
Should all Australia secede, the Commonwealth will
remain responsible for the six State debts, as the
law very clearly defines. Then the Commonwealth
will go broke instead of the States (or as well as
the States). As it will consist only of North Aus-
tralia, Central Australia, the Canberra Territory and
an island or two, there won’t be enough Common-
wealth to face the situation, and it will probably
secede from itself and make an end of the trouble.
If it secedes from itself nobody will be responsible
for anything. . .
When the States cease to be working parts of the
Commonwealth and the Commonwealth goes out of
business through all the States leaving it, a queer
position will arise. The States can leave their
liabilities on . the hands of the Commonwealth, and
the Commonwealth can collect the amounts forcibly
from the States (1) if there is any Commonwealth
left • (2) if the State Governments have asked the
Commonwealth to act forcibly on the ground that
domestic violence is rife. The Federal Government
Guarantees the State Governments’ debts, and these
are large enough to make it seem worth while for
the State Governments to come away and leave
things at that.
But even when it is proved that nobody, especi-
ally Lang, owes anything to anybody, he having (1)
stopped payment, (2) seceded from the Common-
wealth and (3) left his liabilities behind him, some
way will b e found to meet the case. Lang is really
such a ridiculous little obstacle that he can’t be in-
superable to anything more pushing than a cater-
pillar.
4
Our Oil Resources.
It is time we gave serious attention to
our oil-shale deposits. Two things we know
definitely about them: they are of great
extent and are exceptionally rich. Wlien
they were worked in the past, kerosene
and lubricating oils were practically the
only marketable produces sought after;
now the market for motor spirit is far
greater than for either of those other pro-
ducts. In an ordinary year we import seven
millions’ worth of motor spirit, and such
efforts as we have made to find oil wells of
our own have given no more than a faint
promise. That we shall continue to be great
users of motor spirit is certain; that we
should depend upon the rather remote pos-
sibility of developing oil wells is unutterably
foolish.
The Bulletin has already expressed the
opinion that the chief cause of the failure
of past efforts to establish the shale-oil
industry in Australia was the high cost of
mining. But that does not end the
matter. In the first place, it is certain that
the most serious—or, at any rate, the
most pretentious—effort hitherto made, at
Newnes, was placed badly and handled fool-
ishly. But the petrol trade was not then what
it has become; and it should be possible to
make now a product which should more than
cover the costs of mining, even if they
were on the old scale. The first thing to
determine is whether we have ever supplied
ourselves with retorting appliances most
suitable for the recovery of the product
which is nowadays in greatest demand, and
of which it is of first-rate national import-
ance that we should have a local source of
supply. Upon that question there is a divi-
sion of opinion, with the balance in favor
of those who contend that our appliances
have never answered modern requirements.
This is a practical matter upon which the
Federal Bureau of Science and Industry
ought to put itself in a position to speak
with authority.
•
Governors and Dissolutions.
From a constitutional lawyer, who, it will
be seen, goes further in this matter than
'The Bulletin has ever done: —
The will of the electors to the contrary is not the
only ground for the Governor’s intervention and
dissolution of Parliament. He may, and ought, .so
to act whenever the conduct of Administration or
Parliament is patently subversive of, or endangers,
the essential basis of government in its Imperial.
Federal or State aspects; not on mere questions of
policy, but on those of public safety and national
honor. At least two of these violations have already
been wilfully perpetrated by the Lang. Government,
and may in the end force the hand of his Excellency.
But regarding the subject purely from the point
of view of the disapproval or otherwise of the
electors of N. S. Wales, there is and has been for
a long time a very valid reason for intervention,
without any worry about opinions of electors, in
the Government’s deliberate and barefaced repudi-
ation of its public external debts. That was an act
of public bankruptcy and flagrant and designed
dishonesty. There is no necessity for the Governor,
or for us, to lose any sleep ruminating the “grave
problem” whether the public approve of these things;
no such approval can for a moment be supposed.
It is a rule of law, as well as of public morals,
that the will and intention of individuals and masses
cannot by any process of logic or moral deduction
be assumed to be in support of illegality, fraud,
dishonesty or wrongdoing, public or private. The
policeman who grabs a bolting racecourse welsher
doesn’t wait to ask for the approval or reprobation
of the swindle by the defrauded clients. He lands
his catch in gaol and only concerns himself with
the necessary evidence. The Judge in criminal or
bankruptcy jurisdiction doesn’t refer to the creditors
of the fraudulent bankrupt or embezzler to ascertain
whether they found the process of fraud pleasing or
disagreeable. His answer would be It isn t neces-
sary; I know what they are supposed to think.”
Why' butt our heads (or, what amounts to the same
thing, encourage his Excellency to butt his head)
into a wall which isn’t there?
*
Unwanted Education.
Australia spends £12,500,000 a year of taxa-
tion revenue on education. Only a rela-
tively small proportion is spent on practical
technical training in handicrafts. The rest
is an attempt to pump into juvenile minds
a mass of general information, 90 per cent,
of which, in the case of 90 per cent, of indi-
viduals, will not be assimilated or, if it is
assimilated, will not be turned to any useful
purpose. .
This impractical and ridiculous trend m
our methods of education has been brought
about by two sections of the community-
pedagogues intent on magnifying their
office, and persons who, acutely conscious
that their own schooling was defective,
benevolently desire to confer what they
regard as a boon they lacked upon the rising
generation. The fact that this second class,
as a class, got on very well in the world
despite its ignorance of the Greek classics
and the higher mathematics doesn’t seem to
enter into its calculations. But financial
considerations impel Australia to look at,
the matter squarely. The State Las acquired
a responsibility for education, but there' is
no reason why it should set put to turn
thousands of potential contented tradesmen
into discontented Masters of Arts.. The
keys of all knowledge are still comprised in
the “three R’s.” Let the State give each
child a good grounding in these, and it will
accomplish about all of any value that it
can accomplish. Those who want to
more will learn it, and the facilities shoyld
be supplied. Why should those who don t
want knowledge (which probably is quite
irrelevant to their needs) have it thrust
upon them at such great expense?


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
__ Directors:
u ta n/rrc actSs? RGE J UDAH COHEN (Chairman) ;
Hon M L,C ' ; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
? NSLOW - VD - M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
~ , t° n J^!. n Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
J-Iricral T=r^tn^ OUt Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts ot
the world.
_ , ,V; L Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Pi amend Engagement Sings
mm
,30
.€2O
£25
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with t pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET
POLITICAL
POINTS
Scullin has declared himself against undue
haste on the part of the Commonwealth in
trying to collect the amount of Lang’s in-
terest default, and says the constitutionality
of the new Act will probably be argued at
some expense in the law courts. If he had
said he thought anything different from that
he would have gone out on his ear, for the
party has a short way with independent
thinkers. Anyhow, if the case goes to law
it will settle a point, and it will give some
deserving barrister a job (Lamb. K.C., may
be available, as Lang has put him on his
Government’s black list), and it is refresh-
ing, after too much slow Scullin, to hear that
Lyons is showing haste. There are one or
two cases which might be trotted out with
advantage in these slack times. One is
whether the Murrumbidgee isn’t really the
boundary between Victoria and N.S.W.
“It is no use collecting a secret fund with
which to buy over supporters of this Gov-
ernment. No man supporting the Govern-
ment of N. S. Wales is for sale.” Thus
the leader of the Tin-liare Ministry in Par-
liament last week, and wireless conveyed the
majestic intelligence to an admiring world.
One Flanagan, the member for Kandwick,
went further
Forty thousand pounds is available to induce 15
Labor members to betray their party and principles
and cross the floor. Ten times that sum could not
bribe a member of the present Government to
desert his leader.
So £400,000 wouldn’t induce a Tin-hare Min-
ister to twist. Magnificent!
After bellowing defiance at Bruce, hurl-
ing foul scorn at Stevens and uttering hor-
rible threats as to what he would do to “the
commercial and mortgagee classes” if he
were compelled to meet his engagements,
Lang has paid his overseas interest for
“Hey, where’ll you capitalists be if I cut
the rope?”
“Cut it and see.”
[He doesn’t]
March. The fact is that he has no stomach
for a fight, and the Financial Agreement En-
forcement Bill has scared him properly. If
the National Government doesn’t weaken he
will soon be eating out of its hands.
Vic.’s Nat. Fed. has shed its identity as
such and has become the U.A.P. Bob Men-
zies, M.L.A., the Fed.’s president, announced
the change of label, and added that there
would be no other change worth mentioning;
George S. Maclean, sometime secretary to
the Premier, would be gen. sec. to the U.A.P.,
as he was to the Fed., and the same head-
quarters in Collins-street would be used.
The Young Nationalists —one of whom, a
rising hope of 50-odd, stood for the Senate
and just saved bis deposit—are to continue
as a separate branch of the U.A.P. with
Kent Hughes, M.L.A., ns leader.
Japan recently had an election campaign,
not a word about which was allowed to reach
the outside world. As usual, the Government
was returned with a huge majority, the
Seiyukai gaining 306 seats against the Min-
seito’s. 146; the Communists, Socialists,
Agrarians and other subdivisions share 17
seats. The significance of the election is
exactly nothing. The War Minister con-
tinues to be appointed by the Army and the
Minister for the Navy is always an admiral.
Each is responsible to the Mikado, not to
Parliament, and on all issues of importance
the Government gets its orders from the
Elder Statesmen, or Genro. Nobody takes
the politician seriously in Japan.
Senator Hardy announces that “it is im-
possible for members of the Country party
to take office unless they have a definite
say in the policy of the Cabinet.” If the
party would say definitely what it wants
the position would be easier. It demanded
a “general” reduction of customs duties and
removal of the import prohibitions and sur-
charges. Almost nervously anxious to oblige,
the Government struck 43 items off the pro-
hibited list, removed the special duties on
19 and lowered the ordinary duties on 69.
But, so far from expressing pleasure, Dr.
Page announced that he was “intensely
disappointed” and that the Ministry “had
missed a magnificent opportunity of making
a gesture to Britain.” Then he discovered
that “the tobacco industry” had been
“singled out for a terrific reduction”—
import duty has been dropped from ss. 2d. a
pound to 35., and excise raised from 2s. 4d.
to 4s. 6d. —and uttered a protesting roar.
The harried Ministry pleads that it is
acting on the Tariff Board’s advice, and that
to let the duties stand would be to sacrifice
£1,000,000 of revenue in a twelvemonth; but
Page, the Protectionist, will not be
appeased, though the Freetrade Page may
be in the ascendant next week.
The alteration of the tobacco duties, fol-
lowing, as it does, on Lyons’s proposal for
revision of the sugar agreement by consent,
is not going-to help Ministerial candidates at
the Queensland elections in May. There has
been a bit of a boom in tobacco-growing in
the North, especially in the Mareeba dis-
trict. where very good cigarette tobacco is
being produced. Labor is already saying,
with its tongue in its cheek, that Lyons-
Latham has Queensland “set,” and Labor
candidates expect to profit accordingly.
The Mungana case cropped up again in
Brisbane the other day, when the defendants
weighed in with a bill for £12,570. Apart
from fees on briefs and refreshers and
other costs to be taxed, ex-Premier McCor-
mack put in a claim for £940, being compen-
sation “for loss of business as a stockbroker
in Sydney,” 47 weeks at £2O. Theodore’s
expenses were set down at £157. it being
explained that he had lad the benefit of his
railway pass; and his- Ministerial salary, of
course, went on. No account was presented
on behalf of Goddard and Reid, the remain-
ing defendants, other than their costs.
There is much talk among the fussy ladies
and gentlemen of the League, and the fussy
newspapers which encourage them, of calling
Japan to order by means of an economic
blockade. If Russia and America belonged
to the League, and if the signatories of the
solemn covenant could be trusted to be
honest about it, something might be said in
favor of the proposition; but boycotts are
difficult things to manage even in the most
favorable circumstances. All the Powers
are parties to an agreement prohibiting
their nationals from selling arms to China,
yet the British Government annually seizes
in Hongkong harbor alone enough muni-
tions to supply a large army. And heaps more
must get in by underground passages, since
Chinese generals have never been short of
the wherewithal to fight their battles. In-
cidentally, it was the Chinese boycott of
Japanese goods which started the present
rumpus.
One of the fool-resolutions passed at the
recent Sydney “Labor” conference was that
infants of 18 should be given the vote; so
there may be an Infants’ Branch of the
A.L.P. presently. Meanwhile the Invalid and
Old-age Pensioners’ Association has “applied
for affiliation.” Its chairman is reported
to have said that the old-age and invalid
pensioners had “wrecked the Scullin Gov-
ernment and could do the same to any other
Government” —which is true enough if they
all voted one way, for there were 240,520 of
them, about 7 per cent, of Federal electors,
on Jjine 30. Still, threats of political retalia-
tion are a poor return for what Australia
has done for the aged and incapacitated;
and it has done far more on a non-contribu-
tory basis than any other country in the
world.
In 1930-31, with wool 9d. a pound and
wheat in the neighborhood of 2s. a bushel,
old-aige and invalid pensioners divided
£11,710,900. This was £3,714,800 more
than the war pensioners (283,322) got
and £274,800 more than the 1929-30 receipts
from income tax (£11,120,000) and the tax
on entertainments (£316,100). And Federal
income tax in that year was ss. in the £
of personal income exceeding £7600 and
property income exceeding £6500, plus “addi-
tional tax of 8 p.c.” (Page’s), “super-tax
of 10 p.c. to 20 p.c.” (Theodore’s), “addi-
tional tax of 15 p.c. on taxable incomes in
excess of £500” (Lyons’s), and “special super
tax of 7ir p.c. (that is, Is. 6d. in the £) on
all taxable income.” That “special super
tax” (Scullin’s) is now 2s. in the £, and it
is imposed on old people with as little as
£4 10s. a week. But these old people are
few in number compared with the 0.-a. and i.
pensioners, of whom there are 93,100 in
®*. Wales alone, SO the A.L.P. is not
bothering about them.
Time was when Vic. Assembly would have
become almost apoplectic at the bare sug-
gestion of an Upper House member running
the Treasury, but J. P. Jones has been
iat f °w mon ui S wllile Hogan has been
is on a health trip. There is not a murmur
of disapproval, because it is recognised' that
Jones is the best Labor man for the job.
Now it has been arranged to hand over the
Labor department to Williams, another Leg.
Councillor, though factory administration
was supposed to be another preserve of the
Assembly.
“Where are y’ goin’ with the goat?”
“I’m on me way ter see a coupla poli-
ticians about a tin-hare license, an’ I’m
taking him with me. I’ll tie him up in
their office an’ he’ll , be all right.”
“But wot about the smell?”
“Oh, he’ll have ter put up with that.”
When loan money was plentiful the Post
Office copied everybody else and acquired a
lot of frills and furbelows. One of them,
the picturegram service between Melbourne
and Sydney, has come in for some acid
comment from the Auditor-General. For a
month or two a few newspapers used the
costly excrescence to obtain photographs of
events of such national importance as the
wedding of a boy cricketer; since when the
public has forgotten its existence. Expen-
diture (£12,994,800) exceeded revenue
(£12,839,100) in the Postmaster-General’s
department last year, in spite of twopenny
postage. There must be something radically
wrong when this public monopoly, which
charges so much for its services, can’t show a
profit.
When the Sligo returns arc in the Irish
Free State will have elected its fifth Parlia-
ment and the first in which the Republicans
have been the largest party in the Lower
House. They don’t constitute an absolute
majority, but with help from Labor members
they may get there. De Valera, the half-
Spanish gentleman from New York who has
his name down as Prime Minister, proposes
the abolition of the oath of allegiance, and
if he manages that he will probably find that
he has cut loose from the Empire. Ireland
would then rank as a foreign State, which
might make a serious difference, as Britain
has a rather steep leaning towards protec-
tection for British industries nowadays, and
it isn’t a good time to get on the wrong side
of the fiscal fence. Then there is still a
pretty large surplus of emigration from
southern Ireland, and it might be disadvan-
tageous to specify that the Free Stater is a
foreigner, the same as a Russian or a Por-
tuguese. And the question of defence would
crop up, for a republic would have to scrap
on its lonesome in that matter.
Arthur Rae had a fit of eloquence
recently in the Senate when he declared
that “for years many of the smaller States
had been living on N. S. Wales” (it makes
one wonder how many of them there are)
and warned “Senators from other States to
beware of how far they twist the cow’s tail”
—presumably lest it should blow up and
break off. Rae considered that in the effort
to induce N. S. Wales to meet its interest
liabilities “the Commonwealth and the other
States were attempting to browbeat this one
State into giving up the industrial legisla-
tion to which it had pinned its faith” or
nailed its confidence. He declared that he
“would stand behind,” or at the tail-end of,
“any State Government which would openly
strike a blow to end such tyranny by seced-
ing from the Commonwealth”—apparently
any old blow would do, whether it browbeat
the animal or landed on its twisted caudal
appendage. A scornful reference to Lang's
lottery being part of his “plan” drew the fol-
lowing indignant remark from Lang’s incom-
prehensible supporter:—
I have had no hand or voice in the establishment
of the lottery in N. S. Wales. In dny event, Mr.
Lang is not a professed socialist.
Then what is Lang? A professed tin-hareist,
obviously, but what else is he?
Settlers whom Victoria invited from over-
seas are still telling their threadbare tale to
a threadbare Royal Commission. Witness
No. 1001 or thereabouts said he was told
at Australia House that the farmer who
started young in Victoria was generally able
to retire with a competence and a car, if
he wanted to, when aged about 35; and that
even beginning as a British ex-soldier who
was past his infancy he might expect to be
a freeholder without any financial embarrass-
ment in eight years. Victoria spent
£39,507,000 of borrowed funds—largely bor-
rowed in England—in putting people on the
land when land was dear, to say nothing of
money spent on railways and water supply
and sundries to help the settlers.
Attorney-General McGroarty, who was
threatened with opposition from his own
side, has been “unanimously endorsed” by
the South Brisbane branch of his party
organisation. This has given him leisure
to conduct a controversy with' Frank Bren-
nan, J., touching remarks made by that
gentleman at a returned soldiers’ swarry
at Rockhampton. His Honor said it had
been reported that “Mr. Bruce and three
of his minions” had “flatly declined” an
invitation to dine with the Governor-General,
and that “if Bruce gave vent to the state-
ment that the King was coerced in the
appointment of the G.-G., he> should be made
to prove it or be recalled from represent-
ing Australia in London.” McGroarty
wrote asking whether newspaper reports of
the speech were correct, to be asked, in
reply, “What right have you, Mr. Attorney-
Ge'nerah by innuendo, to challenge my right
as a citizen to speak on behalf of Aus-
tralia?” The controversy was still proceed-
ing when this report closed.
N.S.W.’s Main Roads Board quotes a
British Commission on Transport as recom-
mending that “one-third of the cost of high-
ways should be borne by the ratepayer and
two-thirds by the motorist.” Then it prints
a table showing that in the five years 1925-
30, when £38,298,000 was actually expended
on the roads of a State which in the same
period admitted a loss of £6,360,000 on its
railways (exclusive of depreciation and
Treasury grants to cover losses on “develop-
mental” lines), the motorist contributed
£10,966,000 (28.63 p.c.), the ratepayer
£20,765,000 ( 54.22 p.c.) and the general tax-
payer £6,567,000 (17.15 p.c.). This year,
out of an estimated outlay of £3,969,000
(£9,193,000 was spent in 1927-28, and
£8,131,000 in 1928-29, the loan drunk being
on), the motorist is providing 72 p.c. of the
money spent and to be spent on main and
secondary roads. That seems fair enough,
whatever happened in the days when money
was no object to Governments and time was
something you consulted frequently when
toil became tedious.
“Mr. Hughes’s luck was in when he founded the
Nationalist party ; it was out when he founded the
Australian party. Defending a case in which he
was sued for the value of material supplied to that
defunct party, he said he had already paid a
number of its debts.”
“And to think my first little mistake
brought me twenty-five thousand
pounds!”
The Hogans talk of making the question
of levying £2,500,000 or £2,750,000 for un-
employment-relief in 1932-33 a Vic. elee-
tion issue. They will have _ to go to the
country before November 30; Macfarlan,
acting for Argyle, the Opposition leader, has
challenged Tunnecliffe, Hogan’s proxy, to
put the matter to the vote before the autumn
wanes.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Unity”: A curious phase of the slump,
in Sydney at least, is the prevalence of
FORCE OF HABIT.
SHE: “Clarissa must be an ideal wife. I hear she always takes her husband’s advice."
THE BRUTE: “Well, why should she make an exception of that?"
unemployed stationed at various points round
the city singing hymns. Previously the
street vocalist included in his limited reper-
toire the popular songs of the hour, and
blared them forth persistently; now he
has discovered that the hymns he and
others learned at grandma’s knee are more
likely to appeal to a depressed and chastened
world I was gazing into a window the
other'day, with a stout overdressed woman
as the o'nlv other gazer, when a sorry indi-
vidual in the gutter began to sing ‘ Sun ot
M V Soul.” The stout lady turned, and
without the slightest hesitation uplifted a
high quavering soprano. They sang it out
together, the fashion-plate dame and the
derelict after which' she waddled to the kero
explaining that that had always been her
favorite hymn, and dropped a florin into a
receptive hand.
* * * ,
“Ike Hollar” : A parson in one of Sydney’s
poorest districts, being approached on the
subject of a marriage, delicately men-
tioned something about a fee. W ill
it do if me an’ Nell put in our dole
tickets?” he was asked. The same parson
on a previous occasion when urgent reasons
for matrimony were presented agreed to per-
form the ceremony for half a crown. As he
found later that his remuneration included
a bad florin the wedding fee was actually
sixpence. Still he regards the dole-ticket
offer as the limit.
“Biltong”: Eamon de Valera won’t be the
first Dominion Premier who has seen the
stars through prison bars,” although he m
doubtless the first who ever had the death
sentence passed on him. Leander ► ,
Jameson, who headed the raid into the
Transvaal in 1895 and after Jis surrender
was handed over by his captors to the Br t *h
Government, was sentenced by a Bntisn
Court to 15 months’ imprisonment, although
he served less than half of it. -pig y e -
later he had become Premier of Cape Colony
and lie held the job for the full four years.
Jameson, however, never sought to obtain
any kudos out of his ill-judged adventure;
he referred to it frankly and manfully m
the Cape Assembly as “a bad, business, tor
which penance had been done. ’
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The other day a statelj
limousine drew up abruptly at the Swanston-
Collins streets intersection. The driver, a
lady, felt a slight bump, but took no parti-
cuiar notice. When the ugh 3
showed for “go ahead” sin
started off, and immediately the
laughter of pedestrians began to
echo above the noises of the
town. Behind her, with its
bumper bars tightly locked in
hers, was a baby car, whose
owner, a stout male, was rais-
ing plaintive but ineffectual
lamentations on his horn. The
quaint cort&ge was half-way
across the intersection before
the lady awoke to the fact that
she was giving a perfect
stranger a free tow.
** * .
“Norbell”: Shortly before his
death John Monash told me he
had once had a talk with Ned
Kelly. It happened at Jerilderie
(N.S.W.) in 1879: the future
General was a schoolboy there
when the Kellys stuck up the
little town and held it for three
days, and the lad hung about the
Royal Mail Hotel, the Kelly
headquarters, hoping to see the
bushranger. His ambition then
was to be a bushranger himself.
At last he got his chance, and
boldly said “Good day” to Ned
Kelly. Ned called him over to
the hotel verandah, asked hint
his name, and then delivered a
lecture on being a good boy and
always obeying his parents that
a Sunday-school superintendent
could not have bettered. “I
recali that meeting,” said Monash, “as though
it were last week, and I’ll never the
haggard look in that hunted man’s eyes.’
* * * *
“Phillip Street”: A small handful of Syd-
ney men have got a new line on Chinese
honesty. Three years or so back a once
well-known Australian got into difficulties,
and persuaded his friends to put up five or
six hundred pounds to enable him to go to
Hongkong and look into a proposition in
which he saw a fortune —in short, a brewery.
He went, and that was the last anything
was heard of the scheme for nearly two
years. Then a man who knew Hongkong
turned up and reported that actually a
strong co. had been formed to establish the
brewery, and that the Australian had been
bought' out; but unfortunately he hadn’t
been able to stand the success, and had been
found dead in an opium joint. The man who
brought the news promised, at the Sydney
men’s request, to go further into the matter.
He got into touch with the heads of the
brewery co., nearly all of them influential
Chinese merchants, and learned that the
promoter had been paid out and had spent
all the money “That was very Avrong,”
they said in effect, “and we should have
seen that the rights of his principals were
protected. Therefore will you please tell us
how much money they put up?” The infor-
mation was sent; back came word that the
brewery was .nearly ready and was just on
the point of making a start, and would the
Australian gentlemen have money or shares?
The other day what looked like the mosr.
hopeless bad debt in the world was paid in
full —rather more than full, in fact. It is
some satisfaction to know that most of the
Sydney investors paid the Chinese the com-
pliment of preferring scrip in their company.
$ * * *
“Ootacarra”: Major Loekyer, of the 59th
Regiment, who formed the first settlement
in Westralia, at King George’s Sound
(a penal one), didn’t remain long (B.
24/2/’32). The party planted the British
THE ECONOMIST.
MOTHER: “You have been very naughty, Bobby; you aren’t half as good a boy as you
used to be"
BOBBY: But, Mummy, these times you can’t expect a boy to stick to the good-as-gold
standard.”
flag there on Christmas Day, 1826, and four
months later the Major handed over control
to his second-in-command (Captain Wake-
field) and returned to Sydney. His diary sug-
gests that soldiers and convicts alike had a
hard and hungry time on uiis particular out-
post. It was to forestall the French that
what is now Albany was garrisoned, but
Lockver had no trouble with them; it
was ‘the Yankees, the hard-bitten sealers
and whalers who worked the coast from the
Great Australian Bight right up to Rottnest,
and w T ere not above shooting natives and
carrving off their women, whose misdeeds
bothered him and his successors. The aban-
donment of the settlement m 1831 was
decreed because the Swan River people
objected to the presence of a convict estab-
lishment within the borders of their terri-
tory. It was impossible for anyone to fore-
see that within 20 years the struggling
colony would be petitioning for convicts to
help it along the road to progress.
❖ :,i
“Morimoto”: The Woosung forts, which
the Japanese found an unexpectedly hard
nut to crack, have been con-
siderably strengthened since
1914, when I witnessed an
attack on one of them by
Chinese rebels. I was having
morning coffee on the veran-
dah of the local hotel with a
journalist who was_ acting as
war correspondent tor a local
paper, when our attention was
attracted by signs of activity
; n the rebel lines. To oui
amazement we saw about 5W
men start to advance against
the fort in close order and
without any attempt to take
cover When they were within
100 yards of the walls, a
withering fire was opened on
them, and within a tew
minutes most of the attackeis
were either dead or wounded.
The explanation came out
later, and was typical of
Chinese methods. It appeared
that the devoted troops were
a crack corps known as the
“Dare-to-dies,” officered by a
desperado named Lieu Fu-
Biao. The redoubtable war-
rior had informed his troops
that he had arranged peace
terms with the Republican
commander, and that all they
had to do was to march into
the fort and deliver up their
arms, whereupon there would
be rice fill round and ten
dollars a head for the rene-
gades. The people in the fort
did not want a fresh lot of
of hungry soldiers on the pay-
roll, however, and the carnage
that ensued made up a triple
treachery. In the meantime
Lieu was making post-haste
for the foreign settlement to
bank the price paid for his surrender.
* * * *
“C.Q-”: A Vic. stationmaster was trans-
ferred some little distance, and among the
tuings he left behind him was a block of land
enclosing a fine stand of virgin forest. A few
months later he went back to have a look
at his property and was saddened to see
that timber thieves had been on it. One
tree lay cut up into handy pieces and rather
than lose it he engaged the local carrier to
transport it to his new residence. The
carrier gratefully pocketed 30 shillings for
the job and immediately repaired to the
local pub to liquidate some of it. Later
the stationmaster was edified to hear from
the barman that the carrier had reviled
his evil fortune in that he had only received
11 shillings for previous loads of ins ftne
stationmaster’s timber), although he had not
only carted it, but cut it!
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A jury in S.A. lias been
worrying over a little-girl case of the fami-
liar type. The child, about 13, was taken
for a drive by a parson, as a _ candidate tor
domestic service in his mother s house, one
came back with a story that he had driven
her to the beach and there proposed to photo-
graph her in the nude, offering a wad of
notes, and had otherwise behaved impro-
perly. When her parents swore that he had
given them a false name, the _ case, looked
black. His reply was emphatic He had
no camera, and no wad. He had not bet
to the beach. He drove the girl a mile or
two and then, deciding that she would not
suit, sent her home in a tram. And they
THE OTHER MAN.
FIERY SUITOR: “Ha! Some odder fellow has coam
between us, eh? Tell me his name!"
MISS QUICKWIT : “Ah, but you wouldn’t make a scene
with my dear old daddy, would you?"
had simply mis-lieard his name. Several
neighbors swore that he was at home during
the time of the supposed seaside trip, and
the jury’s finding of Not Guilty was received
with applause.
AMONG THOSE PRESENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A small army of nimble-fingered crooks and sleek
confidence men is invading Sydney for the Ha bo
Bridge celebrations.” — “Sun.”
They come sans clash of cymbal,
The crooks whose fingers nimble
Of old would slide the thimble
Above th’ elusive pea,
The chaps who take their chances
And tickle callow fancies
With plausible romances
Of uncles in Fiji.
On Sydneyside they’re surging,
Collecting and converging, >t
The coves whose lurk is “urging
Their divers racecourse tips,
The slipp’ry double-dealers
With eyes well peeled for peelers,
The magsmen and the spielers. „
The “con.” men and the “dips.
You guileless country codgers,
Our pro tern, guests and lodgers,
Beware of Artful Dodgers
As througji our streets you stroll,
Nor linger o’er your liquor,
For never hands were quicker
Than these to grab a ticker
Or gently lift a “roll.”
And, wheresoe’er you’re rangers,
Shy off engaging strangers;
You never know what dangers
Their glib advances mark.
Before you sense you’re laid for
Or being hooked and played for
You may have bought (and paid for)
A sundial in the park.
They come, they’re here, as pretty
A bundle of banditti
As ever sieged a city
Or gave a cop the boot.
They view with satisfaction
A chance to put in action
Their talents for abstraction,
Their genius for loot.
From Paddington to Pymble
Watch out for fingers nimble.
For eyes that “gyre and gimble”
From every coign and ridge!
They come intent to soak us,
The’ knights of hocus-pocus,
Their magnet and their focus
The Opening of Our Bridge.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Tucker Bag”: The Sydney Central
Police Court guillotine was working smoothly,
and into the basket fell the heads of mis-
THE LESSON.
ELDRRLY HUSBAND: “I hope her divorce has taught your jriend a lesson.”
SPRIGHTLY WIFE: “Gee, yes! She’ll be a heap more careful in future.”
creants who had swept footpaths during pro-
hibited hours and left lids off garbage tins.
The rhythm was broken with: “Wife
appears.” “Ah,” said the magistrate, “are you
prepared to plead guilty for your husband
and pay any fine that may be inflicted?”
“Oh, no, your Worship, I won’t pay any
fine; I’ll pay five shillings and eight shil-
lings costs.” It was a new one on the
Court, but amidst the smothered mirtli of
the cops t«he beak made it five shillings and
eight shillings costs.
❖ * *
“C.Q.”: I have it on the worst authority
that the Waiters’ Union of Europe is send-
ing a delegation to Melbourne to present
Mr. Freeman, P.M., with a tipper’s mace.
Mr. Freeman stated in court the other day
that on a trip abroad he spent hundreds of
pounds in tips. He was moved to this con-
fession by the statement of a night porter
at the Victoria Palace that he had received
thousands of pounds from presumably grate-
ful lodgers. Later he corrected the figure
to “over a thousand.” Czarist Russia was
the most extortionate country for tips I
ever travelled in. I had to remunerate 20
persons before I escaped from a hotel in
Moscow, but when I calculated up the total
damage it amounted to only a couple of
roubles. You could not get to a theatre box-
office in Petrograd without tipping your
coachman, your door-opener, the guide who
convoyed you to the theatre entrance and
another who took you to your seat. The
system is so universal, however, that the
equivalent of twopence is regarded as a
handsome recompense in most cases. In the
others it is simply a matter of the inex-
perienced traveller having his leg pulled.
That Freeman, P.M., should have pressed
all that cash into the outstretched palm of
Europe just shows that a magistrate and his
money are soon parted.
*•* ; i' *!•
“Alberta”: The influence of Hollywood
dies hard. Some time ago that universal
educator flooded the world wfith pictures in
which the long-defunct cowboy types were
temporarily superseded by the North-West
Mounted Police of Canada. The other day a
cable, recording that a mad trapper who had
committed several murders had
been run down after weeks of
pursuit and killed in Arctic
Canada, moved one Sydney
paper to hysterical comment
about the force that “Always
Gets Its Man.” In cold fact,
the N.-W.M.P. is as dead as the
genuine cowboy contingent.
After the Great War it was re-
named the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police, and now, con-
siderably reinforced, it does duty
all over Canada, instead of being
confined to the North-West as
of yore. The force still wears
the famous scarlet tunic, but
patrolling the North-West and
Arctic Canada is only part of
its job.
* * *
“Savile Row” : Whether it is
the aftermath of the unendur-
ing Oxford bags movement is
not certain, but it is announced
from Paris that this year the
bell-bottom trousers, once be-
loved in Britain by the coster
and in Australia by the push-
larrikin, are to be the only wear
in male circles where the nether
limbs are concerned. It is some-
thing new to find Paris setting
up as an arbiter in men’s
fashions, a position long held by
England. No really smart indi-
vidual on the Continent or in
America but goes to London for
his clothes. Even the Kaiser did
so before the Great War; among
the causes which influenced him
is said to have been an incau-
tious remark by King Ned to the effect that
his royal nephew in mufti reminded him of
nothing so much as a valet airing his
master’s wardrobe.
* * *
“Bumpkin” : As a loyal South Australian
I was upset to read in the “Age” a descrip-
tion of 11.M.A.5. Protector, now employed
as a wool barge at Port Melbourne, in which
no mention was made of the gallant part
played by this warship for so many years
in the defence of my native State. I have
lively recollection of seeing her for many
years collecting barnacles at her moorings,
which were exactly opposite ray bedroom
window at Largs Bay. The only period
when this spectacle did not greet my waken-
ing eyes was when the South Australian
Government sent her to suppress the Boxer
Rebellion. She had a long and tempestuous
voyage, and most of her complement, who
in their native habitat varied shore jobs
with their seagoing experiences, got seasick.
When she arrived in the Gulf of Pechili
most of the trouble was over, but she heard
firing and a party landed to investigate, only
to find that some Russian troops had got in
before them. However, the Protector served
with distinction in the Great War, being
listed as a second-class torpedo-boat. It
was the Russian war scare of two genera-
tions ago which caused South Australia to
acquire her. Invasion was regarded as so
imminent that on one occasion the garrison
of the Largs Bay fort was hastily collected
m Port Adelaide and sent down in a cab to
repel a landing party that turned out to be
a mixed-bathing picnic.
* * * *
“Bloggs”: I nominate N.S.W.’s Blue
Mountains for the Daylight Robbery Stakes.
A well-known brand of wine that costs 3s.
Od. a bottle in Sydney is ss. in most of the
pubs west of the Nepean. Transport
charges? At the outside 3d. a bottle. Petrol
costs 2s. a gallon in Sydney is 2s. 4d.
in Katoomba. Transport approximately
a gallon. Why hotels and service sta-
tions keep it up is a mystery, as it is losing
them a lot in trade. Most Sydney tourists
who are in the know have taken to bringing
their own drinks, and I noticed last week
that a Bankstown correspondent of one of
the motoring papers proposed to start on
his annual holiday with a supply of petrol. But
the record transport tax is charged by some
of the Sydney hotels that run cheap Busi-
ness Men’s Lunches. They demand lOd. for
bringing a Is. 2d. bottle of beer from the
adjacent bar, and if you arrive with your
own brew, bought at the same bar, charge
lOd. corkage on it. As a result hundreds
HOT AND COLD.
“I believe Juno can go the pace in the crawl.”
“Yes! You should see her when she gets into hot water with Billy.”
of former patrons are starting to patronise
restaurants which have no licenses, but are
willing to take delivery of liquor and supply
it as required. But several of the smaller ones
have already started the corkage ramp in a
mild way, and at least one of the licenseless
luxury eating-places charges a flat rate of
os. on each bottle that a diner arrives with.
Sydney differs from Bio Mountain towns
inasmuch as it only profiteers on alcohol
taken with food nowadays. A few thousand
feet higher up they overcharge for practi-
cally everything. Ivatoomba has a munici-
pal links where a half-day’s golf costs 2s. 6d.!
* * * *
“Pawang”: Members of the Australian
College of Surgeons had an interesting ex-
perience while they were inspecting the Mel-
bourne Children’s Hospital the other day.
An operation on a hoy with a dislocated hip
happened to be in progress, and while the
delegation looked on the patient collapsed
and died under the anaesthetic. The surgeon
in charge promptly made an incision below
the diaphragm, and by massaging the heart
restored the youth to consciousness. The
life-saver remains anonymous, in accord-
ance with professional etiquette.
❖ $ i!i sf:
“Obolus”: A recent cable told of a seizure
by the Indian Customs of a large consign-
ment of Maria
Theresa silver dollars,
which were being
smuggled into Bom-
bay from Arabia.
Coins are among the
world’s most inde-
structible things, and
India, with its pas-
sion for hoarding,
has probably the
most unique collec-
tion of the world’s
coinage in existence,
if it could only be
brought to light. The
M.T. dollar dates
from early in the
eighteenth century;
and it was to be en-
countered in Aus-
tralia in the early
days, having pro-
bably drifted this
way from the South
Americas, where it
was currency, as it
was in Spain. In
addition, the Spanish
dollar from the same
source was well
known in old Sydney.
The Jardines are
alleged to have recov-
ered dollars from an
ancient wreck at
Somerset (N.Q.)
which bore the
stamp of Ferdi-
nand and Isabella.
It is certain that the
silver dollars which
nsed to crop up at
Rossel Island, in the
Louisiade Arc h i-
pelago, carried the
superscription of sev-
eral Spanish rulers,
though they were
supposed to have come from the wreck of a
ship returning Chinese laborers to their
homes from Chile, long after that country
became a republic.
;j{
“Ex-Tailor”: Mrs. T. H. Kelly, of Sydney,
has been telling interviewers how Australia
strikes her sartorially after eight years in
Italy. Some of the girls look chic enough
for Longcharußf?, but they wight to be
ashamed to be seen with their menfolk
whose clothes are shabby and in need of a
good pressing. The lady has it all wrong,
Sydney isn’t London—it is as provincial as,
say, Dublin or Edinburgh, where the best
people wear countrified clothes The Prince
a good judge in such matters, wore old
clothes when he was. here except on formal
occasions. If he had paraded Castlereagh-
street in the clothes he wears in St.
James’s he would have looked an over-
dressed bounder. Sydney seems vulgar and
tawdry by comparison with Melbourne just
because so many females, old and young.
get themselves up in imitation of Continental
cocottes and Hollywood film-stars. Their pre-
posterous hats and coiffures might pass
muster somewhere east of Piccadilly Circus
—in Shaftesbury-avenue, for example—but
there is excuse for them outside a re-
spectable King-street fishshop or on an
Edgecliff tram. It says something for the
rarefied circle in which Mrs. Kelly moves that
she should think all the local men are in-
different about their appearance. Would to
God they were! Sydney has as natty a lot
of male dressers—the products chiefly’ of the
talkies.—as Houndsditch itself. Let her
visit one of the lesser golf clubs, and view
the resplendent outrages in white plus-fours,
parti-colored shoes, imitation lumber jackets
and comic hats and caps. It will give her
the right point of view.
* * * sjs
The Bulletin of March 16 will be three
in one—a Bridge number, an Easter number
and an ordinary number combined, and sold
at the usual sixpence. The Bulletin will
not repeat any of the thousand and one
familiar photos of the Bridge; it will print
interesting illustrated articles on “The Men
Who Talked the Bridge” (with a reproduc-
tion of Hop’s first cartoon on the subject),
on “The Birth of the Bridge” (this by Arthur
Griffith - , who was Minister for Works at the
time), on “The Bridge and its Builders,” and
HARD LINES.
“Never mind, dear, time is a great healer, you know.”
“Maybe; but he's not much as a beauty doctor.”
on “The Romance of the Bridge”—a fas-
cinating article, which ranges from Lieut
Dawes, who gave his name to the point on
which the southern foot of the Dridge stands
down to Dorman, Long and Co., the actual
builders. The holiday section will include
numerous bright short stories, including one
by Katharine Susannah Prichard ; and there
will be humorous drawings by 20 of Aus-
tralia’s best black-and-white artists, in addi-
tion to all the regular features. '
AND THEN THERE WERE FOUR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Lang was the greatest living Australian
patriot. The trio of political immortals —Wentworth,
Parkes and Deakin —had swollen to a quartet, as
Mr. Lang took his place among them.”
— Mr. Beasley in the House of Reps.
Wake up, take note, illustrious trinity,
In whatsoe’er Elysian fields ye be!
Another comes—or presently he should—
To join your rare and radiant brotherhood.
His seat is booked, and duly pegged his
claim
To reach your eminence and share your
fame.
• Wentworth, in days long past, let it suffice
To say you cut considerable ice.
Inflexible your sturdy way you went
To win your native land self-government.
Statesman and orator, whose deeds diffuse
A lingering glory round your loved Vaucluse,
Your whack of hero-worship many a day
You’ve had in lavish measure —now, make
way!
And you, old hairy Parkes, the first to see
An undivided people’s destiny, ,
Whose vision clear across the years could
soar
And see our country one, from shore to
shore,
Extend a word of greeting to a chap
Who’s cut his name as deeply on the map.
And Alfred, tribune with the silver tongue,
Faint grow the stirring chords that once
you strung.
Another tribune and a noisier comes
With blaring trumpets and with booming
drums.
You played your pieces and you ran your
race.
Beside you yield him, still in being, place.
’Mid all the deeds of yours that memory keeps,
Which of you thought to give us weekly
sweeps ?
Or wrought a nation’s gratitude to win
With nerves of iron and with hares of tin?
Much though you dared for patriotism’s sake.
Say, wdiich of you was game a bank to break?
Or call our creditors atrocious screws,
And tell them they could whistle for their
dues ?
What though to dizzy heights ’twas yours
to climb.
You can’t have all the limelight all the time.
Another comes, with clatter and with clang.
Squeeze up a hit and find a place for Lang!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY”
•••••••■a
Bulletin Buildings j
252 Georqe Street.
! S V D N E. V
kE^
The Macleod Gallery will be opened
during Bridge Celebration Week > an d
will be one of its big attractions.
The Gallery, which is on the sixth floor of the new Bulletin Buildings, is 150 feet long, with magnificent natural lighting, and
largest private gallery in Australia. __
Artists and collectors who have works for sale are invited to communicate with , the Director, Mr. G. . . ann, or
Director of the National Art Gallery of IN. b. Wales.
Conditions and other particulars from, the Director, Macleod Gallery, Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
is the
years
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some March birthdays:
A. C. O. Holtz (Melb. “Argus”). 58, on Ist;
N S.W. Collector of Customs W. H. Barkley, 63,
on 2nd; author Rev. Dr. Frank Boreham, 61, and
G C Klug (Bewick, Moreing and Co.), 07, on a a,
Archbishop Mannix, 68, on 4th; Vic Senator Lawson,
57, on sth; J. Newman Barker (Melb.), 81, and
D. G. Stead, F.L.S. (Syd.)y 55, on 6th; Dr. /Eneas
McDonnell (Toowoomba), 68, bn 7th ; artist-knight
John Longsfafl, 70, on 10th; knight Fra ‘
(Vic. Leg. Council Pres.), 53, medico-knight Richard
Stawell (Melb.), 68, J. R. Collins (High Commis-
sioner's Office), 63, and G. S. Knowles (Fedaal
Solicitor-Gem), 50, on 14th; Archbishop Hayden
(Hobart), 64, and Walter Lucas, pioneer Island
trader, 63, on 15th; Prof. Holme (Syd.), 61, and
novelist Bernard Cronin, 48, on 18th ; Vic. ex-Governor
Somers, 45, poet Arthur Bayldon, 67, Federal Speaker
Mackay, 60, and. A, S. Rodgers (formerly M.H.R.
for Wannon), 57, on 20th; Speck journalist W. H.
Simmonds, 72, on 21st; Minister Marr, M.H.R. for
Parkes, 52, Vic. ex-Agent-Gen, Geo. Fairbairn, 77,
E W. Parkes (Clerk, of House of Reps.), 59, and
novelist Roy Bridges, 47, on 23rd; Vice-Admira
Ernest Gaunt, 67, on 25th; Vice-Admiral W. Claik-
son 73, Minister of Customs Gullett, 54, ex-W.A.
Senator de Largie, 73, and Prof. Melville (Adel.),
30, on 26th; former Vic. Premier John Allan, 66,
on 27th- former W.A. Premier knight Walter James,
69, and’j. S. MacDonald (Director of N.S.W. Nat.
Gallery) 54, on 28th; Prof. T. G. Tucker (Melb.),
73, and G. V. Brooks (Speck’s Director of Education),
55’ 0 n 29th; Speck Senator Sampson, 50, on 30th 1 ;
and Adelaide-born Prof. W. Lawrence Bragg, F.R.S.
(Nobel Prize winner), 42, on 31st.
W. M. Hughes (67) and W. A. Holman
(60), who have a good deal in common
besides K.C.-ship, sat for two years together
in the N.S.W. Leg. Assembly at the end ot
last century, Hughes representing Lang and
Holman Cootamundra. Then came Federa-
tion, and their paths diverged for 31 years,
during which period each man succeeded m
making a good deal of political history, one
as the Commonwealth’s near-dictator for halt
a dozen years, the other as the State s.cham-
pion long-distance Premier. The mam dif-
ference was that Hughes, whatever else he
lost, never failed to find a seat, whereas
Holman crashed in 1920 and stayed out of
Parliament until the pair found themselves
fellow-members once more in the House oi
Reps.
The happiest person in Sydney at the
end of last week was E. D. Reed, the man
who was sent this way to tell us what the
Matson people were getting ready to do
for Australia, and to act generally as a sort
of Pilot John the Baptist for the Mariposa
and her two sisters, whom we haven’t yet
met. The weather couldn’t have been
better for the first visit of the first of the
new liners, and Sydney and its surround-
ings endorsed every word the enthusiastic
Reed fias told America about us. For Aus-
tralia’s benefit, Reed, who is a Canadian,
E. D. REED, of the Matson Line.
mentions that tourists are a good second to
wheat among liis own Dominion’s industries.
In an average 12 months Canada collects
52 million pounds—not dollars —from L.fc.
tourists alone.
Sir Francis Wylie, secretary to the Rhodes
Trust Fund, at Oxford, from 1903 until his
retirement last year, was met at Spencei-
street station, Melbourne, by 11 ex-scholars:
Dr. F. li. Apperley, J. A. Seitz, W. A.
Merriless, E. F. Herring, C. Paton, A Bur-
ton (the Speck), Prof. A. C. Db Rivett,
R. R. Sholl, Andrew Garran, Dr. C. W.
Littleiolin and Dr. J. C. V. Behan, Warden
of Trinity College. Sir Francis prides him-
self on never forgetting the face of a
Rhodes scholar, and he recognised every
man in turn without the necessity of an
introduction.
Duggan, see. of Melb. Trades Hall Coun-
cil, has his eye on Bourke when Anstey, who
doesn’t intend to stand again, is finished
with it. Duggan had an unsuccessful shot
for the Reps, at Henty.
J P. A. Quinn, who has been appointed
Crown Prosecutor for the Northern Division
of the Queensland Supreme Court in succes-
sion to Ben Ross, who retires after many
years of service, is a Queenslander who began
his State service in the Treasury in 1906.
ILe transferred to the Crown Solicitor’s office
a year later, and
before his call to
the Bar in 1915
was for some time
Associate to Jus-
tice Real. Return-
ing to the Justice
Department he be-
came registrar of
tne Supreme Court
at Townsville, and
later Northern
Crown Solicitor, re-
turning to private
practice in 1920.
Charles Gav a n
Duffy, dead at 75,
was private secre-
tary to his father,
then Premier of
Victoria, as long
ago as the early
’seventies. He had
another turn under
Graham Berry, and
then he switched off
to steady Parlia-
ment ar y jobs,
which he held for
over 40 years, be-
ginning as Clerk of
Committees in the
Leg. Assembly and
ending as Clerk of
the Federal Senate.
He was three years
younger than his
brother Frank
Gavan Duffy, Aus-
tralia’s p resent
C..T.' another and
much younger
brother, George
Gavan, has been a
Minister for For-
eign Affairs in the
Customs Minister
GULLETT, who
brought in a new tariff
schedule last week.
Free State Govern- . , ,
meat. All were born m Dublin and edu-
cated at Stony hurst.
Moliagul, the little Vic. village where the
Welcome Stranger nugget was found m
>69, has just lost its oldest inhabitant,
John Liddell, who passed out on his 95th
birthday. When three weeks old he came
from the Speck to Victoria.
Charles A. Baumgartner, who is to suc-
ceed Geoff. Burgoyne as editor of Feitu
“Daily News,” has had allhisnewspaper
experience on Melbourne Herald. He 1
a Melbourne University graduate. Haioid
Burston, the “Herald’s” financial writer, for-
merly of The bulletin, has been appointed
general manager of the “News,’ Adelaide.
He takes the place of D. Gilbert, w 7 ho goes
to the “News,” Perth, as general manager.
“M.M.M.”: John Earle’s death recalls
one of the happiest impromptus ever heard
in the Senate. It was when Billy Hughes
was Prime Minister and had to reckon with
a hostile Senate. Ready resigned his seat,
and Earle was selected by the Tas. Govern-
ment without a moment’s loss of time to fill
the vaeancy. When the new man entered
the Chamber Ted Findley acted as unofficial
announcer. “Gentlemen,” he boomed, meet
the Ready-made Earle!”
Eamon de Valera, wdiose turn has come
in Ireland as surely as Hertzog’s came m
South Africa, is still a few months short
of 50 New York bore him; East Clare first
returned him to Parliament in the war
years, though Sinn Feiners of that era mostly
stayed away from their legislative duties on
principle. De Valera heard himself sen-
tenced to death in 1916 for his part m the
Dublin rising, but he was a free man wuthin
12 months. Re-imprisoned before the war
ended he made a sensational escape from
Lincoln gaol in 1919, and spent the next
year or two in the U.S.A. He was President
of the Irish Republic, which existed for
three years in theory pending the arrival ot
the genuine Irish Free State, Also .^ e .f s
been Chancellor of the National University
of Ireland for the last 10 years.
Newffon James Moore, who w r as West-
raliais Premier from 1906 to 1911, its Agent-
General for the succeeding seven years, and
has sat in the Commons ever since, has gone
up a step higher in the world, having been
appointed President of the British Empire
Steel Federation in Canada, one of the big
organisations in the industrial-financial
world. Newton is a product of Bunbury,
the little seaport which supplied Australia
with its only native-born peer in Bigjohn
Forrest and its present Premier, Jimmy
Mitchell.
Justice Brennan, who has been having
some polite correspondence with his
Attorney-General in very plain English, was
Minister for Education in a Q. Labor Govern-
ment when Justice Shand retired, and got
the job in circumstances whicli_ caused much
commotion at the time (1925). It has,
however, been generally agreed that he lias
made a very good Judge. But he has never
been as much at home on the Bench as he
was in Parliament, and, though he holds
himself well in hand, he is an ardent poli-
tician still; but in these days his interest
is almost entirely with Federal and Imperial
problems. It was an alleged slight ottered
to the G.-G. by ex-P.M. Bruce, of all people,
which made Brennan protest and caused all
the present trouble. His Honor was born
at Maryborough, but did most of his prac-
tice at Toowoomba.
Joseph Kennedy, dead in Gippsland at
50, as the result of ground-shrapnel
wounds received in ’l7, was proprietor of
the Bunyip (Vic.) “Express” until khaki
claimed him. He was known to Bulletin
readers under the pen-name of “Tarago,’
his cheerful pars alternating now and then
with black-and-white sketches.. Kennedy was
a fine country cricketer in his day.
J. Clemenger, who will look after the
Davis Cup team, is an all-round athlete him-
self and has represented Sydney Uni. in
cricket, baseball, running and football. He
was N S. Wales’s hope in inter-State tennis
until 1927, when hn crossed to Melbourne
and changed to the other side of the net.
He'threw up 1 school-teaching for motor-cars,
and is sales manager of one of Melbourne s
biggest groups.
W. R. Nairn, Melbourne manager of Pen-
fold’s, who lias returned from a world trip
with the encouraging news that Australian
wines are growing in favor in Canada. as
well as Britain, is something of a politician
as well as a vintage expert- He sat for two
terms (1914-20) as member for Swan m
the Westralian Assembly, and looked. like
rising to Ministerial rank had not business
claims proved more pressing. His younger
brother, a lawyer and previously a journalist,
sits for the Perth division in the House ot
Reps.
C. E. Macmillan, Maoriland’s new Minis-
ter of Agriculture, was born in the Danish
West Indies in 1872, his father being Cap-
tain Macmillan, R.N., who married the
Baroness de la Barca. The son, who lias
lived in M.L. since he was nine, started
work by taking up land at Katikati.
In 1900 he founded a co-operative dairy co.,
and in a few' years all his time was taken
up with the management of this and other
companies of the same sort. He became a
member of every local body in the district,
C. E. MACMILLAN, Maoriland’s new
Agriculture Minister.
and was Mayor of Tauranga during tbe war.
He entered Parliament nine years ago, de-
feating Baronet Ward in a by-election. Most
M.L. Ministers work hard, but Macmillan
gets to liis office well ahead of the char-
woman, and has three hours’ work done by
breakfast-time. As against that, he doesn’t
burn the midnight oil so much as some of
his colleagues. Unlike his predecessor, Davey
Jones, who is spare of frame and solemn of
countenance, Macmillan is big and genial-
looking—quite the Seddon type in appear-
ance.
Edward W. Knox, the G.O.M. of the
C.S.R. Co., who will be 85 on Apm, 1,
once remarked on the very few books tnat
had influenced him. One of them—he read
it when he was. a boy —concerned a tribe
of American redskins, and told how tne
young warriors were taught not to allow
their tongues to waggle when they were in
a tight corner. He decided to follow that
precept. Nevertheless there are times when
he has been obliged to speak in defence ot
bis co., and Auditor-General Cerutty nas
E. W. KNOX, head of the Sugar Co.
just provoked him to one of his rare depar-
tures. Sydney-born —his father was the
parent of the C.S.R. —he was educated at
Sydney Grammar, and at 17 _ entered the
service of the co. Within six years he
had control of its sugar mills on the
Clarence. In 1880 he became manager; in
1901 he was elected to the board, and is now
chairman and managing director. I our
years ago he and his wife celebrated their
golden wedding, and at the presentation by
the staff of a portrait of himself by VV. B.
Mclnnes, it was recalled that 84 years back
tlie staff had celebrated the golden wedding
of his father.
James McClelland, Harold Clapp’s lieu-
tenant, who is leading the Vic. railway fight
against the hated road competitor, is
the department’s fares and freights expert
and the author of the goods-ratcs book. A
University man, he obtained the highest marks
in the Commonwealth when he qualified as
an accountant, and he has been a railwayman
for 35 years. Clapp sent him to U.S.A. in
192 G to study the latest overseas methods.
Features of the McClelland campaign against
road competition have been the withdrawal
of rail concessions on manures, wheat, fire-
wood and other bulky low-freighted loading
from those farmers who get their high-priced
stuff by road, and the reduction of standard
freights below the competitor’s rate for indi-
vidual customers who contract not to use
the road.
Prince George Thakambau, a scion of a
Fiji princely house and a lineal descendant
of that stout old warrior King Thakambau,
who practically forced Britain to take
possession of Fiji over half a century ago,
has been giving Queensland a look over. Il'e
is at Newington College in Sydney, from
which he will presently go to Sydney Uni.
and thence to Oxford to study law, so that
when he succeeds his father as the para-
mount chief of Fiji he will be equal to the
job. Dad is a member of the Legislative
Council of Fiji and Commissioner of Tailevu
province.
J. M. Niall, of Golds,brough Morts, who
lately passed his 72nd birthday, was
born in S. Aus., where his dad was
a pioneer squatter. Before he was 20
the son moved to Queensland, and there
later owned stations in partnership with
that great Australian Robert Barr-Smith.
who by the way is being commemorated at
Adelaide University by a handsome library
and building to house it. Mali's connection
with the big wool firm, of which he is now the
chief, dates back 37 years, when he was
appointed manager at Rockhampton. He is
an outstanding figure in the Australian wool
industry and in finance.
The late Dr. Marion Phillips wasn’t the
only Australian Labor member whom the
recent British elections washed out of a seat;
Leonard Matters, an Adelaide native and
some time editor of the Perth "‘Daily News,”
sustained a bad beating in the Kennington
division of Lambeth, where he had a comfort-
able win in 1929. Matters has crammed a
lot of experiences into his 50 years; he
served in the Boer War and spent years
in the Argentine. Platform ability as well
as ready penmanship run in the family; a
sister was well in the limelight during the
suffragette agitation of nearly a quarter of
a century ago.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
EXPLOSIVES
AIX KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods by rail or steamer at
usual rates of freight.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
Private Finance
AND
Public Taxation
How Much More Can
We Stand?
SEE
THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY"
READY SATURDAY.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM - 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
•Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Belting for Long Service
The many long-service records
established by Pioneer Leather
Belting justify its specification
for the hardest and most diffi-
cult drives. There is no guess-
work when you buy Pioneer
Belting, because there is a
special grade to suit each type
of d rive and every working
condition. For many years of
dependable service specify
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Made and guaranteed since 1858 by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney; and
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland Forests, Ltd.
Holders of forestry bonds sold by Queens-
land Forests, Ltd., are perplexed about an
account they have received from the co.’s
managing agents, E. S. and R. C. Moulton,
Ltd. The bill is for payment of an extra
£2 per bond in respect of the co.’s “earlier
marketing contract.” To get the whole posi-
tion into proper perspective it is necessary
to keep in mind that there are two parties
chiefly concerned in this as in almost
every other forestry venture. These are
the shareholders and the bondholders. Thus
far shareholders have derived their profits
mainly from the sale of bonds, and appear-
ances are that their returns in the future
will be derived chiefly from bond sales
and from commission earnings for work
undertaken on behalf of bondholders. Bond-
holders depend for their returns upon the
net proceeds of the sale of forest products,
etc.
The circular to bondholders puts the case
for early marketing in this way:—
At the inception of the co.’s forestry-bond busi-
ness it was estimated that from 12 to 20 years
(1934-47) would be required to establish markets
and prepare for the installation of milling machinery.
Plans were made on that estimate, and funds were
placed in' trust accordingly.
Circumstances subsequently changed the co.’s
forestry policy As a result of the tariff the
directors decided that it would be profitable to
bondholders to market some of the co.’s timber
stocks without undue delay.... If funds could at
this stage be released, all would be well, but a
condition of the co.’s bond issue stipulates that
funds deposited. with bondholders’ trustees to ensure
marketing facilities cannot be made available until
after June 1, 1939. To enable the co., therefore,
to create an organisation to stabilise markets for
its timber stocks, and to arrange for milling mach-
inery without delay, bondholders must wholeheartedly
co-operate.
So bondholders are asked to contribute an
extra £2 per bond. The dispatch of an
account with the request might be taken
to mean that bondholders are actually in-
debted to the co. for the ‘ amount specified.
Provided they have not already agreed to
the proposal, they are not so indebted, and
are therefore u-nder no obligation to make the
payment. The co. does not offer to repay
this £2 per bond now asked for in addition
to the contract price (£5). .Certainly the
tariff has improved prospects for Queens-
land and other Australian timbers. But the
sickness in the construction trades and
the crowded, state of the timber industry is
pretty certain to mean keen competition and
narrow profit margins. The recent experi-
ence of well-established and once prosperous
concerns like Kauri Timber. Allen Taylor,
H. McKenzie and A. and E. Ellis and others
does not encourage early hopes of anything
but very moderate profits.
Queensland Forests, Ltd., was formed in
1927. and bought virgin forest lands
in the Johnstone River district (N.Q.).
These it sold to the public for £3O
per acre in bonds of £5 each. At this price
plus not more than 5 p.c. of the gross pro-
ceeds of all sales, the co. has contracted to
look after the trees, and to convert and
market the products. All exes, in connection
with conversion and marketing will be a
charge against sales. Whatever net pro-
ceeds there may be—that is, after the co.
has collected its commission of 5 p.c.—will
go to bondholders until £lOO in the aggre-
gate for each £5 bond has been paid.
To ensure performance of its part of the
job the co. undertook to deposit with the
trustees for the bondholders 335. 4d. of each
£5 bond, after it had collected the other £3
6s. Bd. The bonds were marketed in series
of 18,000. The £30,000 to be held in trust
in respect of each series belongs to the co.
It is to be made available £15.000 from the
fifth to the twentieth year, in equal annual
instalments, for maintenance and protection
of the trees; the other £15,000 payable on
or after June 1, 1939, for the erection of
mills or “such other enterprise.... contem-
plated by the memorandum of association of
the co.”
The co.’s own auditors certify that at June
30, 1931, all moneys due in accordance with
the. terms of the bond issues had been de-
posited with the trustees. The total amount
so deposited was £52,757. Only the milling
and marketing trust (£26,379) was shown
as an asset; the maintenance trust (£26,379)
was deducted from the reserve for’ un-
completed contracts, reducing the reserve
held by the co. to £94,712 at June 30 last.
For the 12 months to that date this reserve
was tapped for £19,446 to cover the co.’s
. exes, and pay the pref. div. and 5 p.c. to
the ords. Except for the sale of forfeited
paper, of which there has been a heavy crop,
bond selling has been discontinued. Until it
is resumed, and/or until marketing begins,
the co. will probably have to live mainly on
contributions from the maintenance trust
plus its own reserve for the purpose, and
whatever it may be able to get from the
sale of products from its own lands —it had in
reserve 3345 acres, estimated to contain over
33 million feet of timber, at the close of last
accounts. _ Still, the co. may consider it
better business to sell this timber to bond-
holders, and then market it for them on a
commission basis. When the books last
closed there was then £100,850 out-
standing in respect of the sale of bonds;
cash, etc., amounted to £3961; liabilities to
the public figured at £33,360. To begin
marketing now on bondholders’ account
would be sound business from the share-
holders’ point of view. Whether it would be
so for bondholders remains to be seen.
Melbourne Co-operative Brewery
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1929.. 114,595 23.3 p.c. = 102,795 11,800 279,120
1930.. 110,134 22.5 „ „ 97,196 12,938 292,058
1931.. 75,421 17.1 „ „ 73,797 1,624 293,682
This co., whose shares were listed for the first
time in November last, was started in 1904
by a few big hotelkeepers in Melbourne; and
success attended the venture from the outset.
Until last year divs. ranged from 110 p.c. p.a.
to a mere 20 p.c. p.a.; and for years the old
ss. shares fetched around 255. in the market.
There was a reconstruction in 1920, when
one fully-paid £1 share was handed out for
every ss. share then held. Five years later
the co. passed over most of its assets to the
big C.U.B. for £650,000 in scrip, and two
divs. of 30 p.c. each were paid in ’27 and
’2B. Then there was another gift, one for
two, which raised paid capital to its present
figure—£43l,9Bl in 10s. shares—and the div.
was dropped to 23.3 p.c. in ’29. Still, the
23.3 p.c. called for £16,398 more than 30 p.c.
div. in the previous year.
The Co-op. holds a one-third interest in
the C.U.8., upon whose distributions Co-op.
shareholders have now to depend for their
divs. At July 31 last the holding co.’s only
other assets were hotels, etc., £33,803;
advances, etc., £10.660; Government securi-
ties, £51,200. Liabilities were a mere £3034,
The C.U.B.’s declared net profits were 21.6,
17 and 12.3 p.c. on capital (£1.950,000) for
the three years to June 30,1931. For the cor-
responding years it paid 17£, 15 and 11-J p.c.
respectively in divs. But last year’s final
distribution was at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a.;
and the market has its doubts about the
10 p.c. being maintained; certainly nothing
more than that can be safely looked for until
better times come along. The slump in hotel
values gave the C.U.B. a chance to secure
more of the trade, and the opportunity was
promptly taken, doubtless with an eye on
probable competition. Over the last two years
the co. spent £222,058 more than was written
off on hotel properties (£611,154). Finan.ces
are robust, of course. The more or less liquid
surplus was £1,189,297 when the books last
closed.
A 10 p.c. div. from the C.U.B. would bring
in enough to show 15 p.c. on the Co-op.’s
capital. But the Co-op.’s own last quarterly
distribution was only 4d. per share, equal to
13.3 p.c. p.a. The market prices the 10s.
paids at 21s. 9d.; the return at that figure
is 6.1 p.c. on a 13.3 p.c. div basis Including
the co.’s proportion of C.U.B.’s reserves (10s.
2d.), the backing is 16s. 8d in net assets.
That includes £BOO,OOO which the operating
co. originally paid for the goodwill of the
amalgamated concerns, though much of that
froth has been displaced by internal pro-
visions.
Carlton Hotel, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends Towards Nomi-
Net Pref. Re- nal Re-
Oct., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£> & £ £ £
1921.. 3,139 1600 2} p.c. = 1500 39 39
1922.. 2,992 1600 Nil 1392 1,431
1923.. 5,111 1600 7 p.c. = 4200 742
1924.. 3,118 1600 Nil 1518 2,260
1925.. 7,631 1600 9 p.c. = 5400 631 2,891
1926.. 9,706 1600 10 „ „ 6000 2106 4,997
1927.. 10,675 1600 10 „ „ 6000 3075 8,072
1928.. 12,006 1600 12£ „ „ 7500 2906 10,978
1929.. 13,172 1600 15 „ „ 9000 2572 13,550
1930.. 5,727 Nil Nil 5727 19,277
Loss.
1931.. 876 Nil NU 18,401
Just before the boom burst the co. went
heavily into debt to finance the purchase of
the freehold (£75,000 was the price men-
tioned) and make improvements to the pre-
mises. Thus £88,601 was added to the
amount coming to creditors during the 12
months to the close of accounts in 1929,
raising it to £154,641. At Oct. 31 last the
figure was £154,678. That is to say, there
was then 255. lOd. of outside money at risk
in the business for every £1 of shareholders’
funds, including £21,347 reserved against an
unspecified amount of goodwill, etc. Assets
were all lumped in one untidy entry at
£275,213, thus obscuring the financial position.
Now that earnings have shrunk, the weight
of the debt is making itself felt, as it always
does in such circumstances. For the 12
months to Oct. 31 last gross profits (£29,583 )
fell away. £5460, making the slip £18,542
over the last two years. Exes. (£30,459)
were £1143 heavier, and only £4494 lighter
than in 1929. Thus a loss of £876 showed
up, and both lots of shareholders went
hungry again. Takings are reported to
have brightened a trifle during the last few
months, but overhead threatens to remain
stubborn, notwithstanding the reduction in
overdraft rates, and nobody can be sure
what extra taxes, if any, Mr. Lang may im-
pose. So it is very doubtful wdiether much
in the way of net improvement need be
looked for for a W’hile. Shareholders’ pros-
pects will look a lot better when the heavy
outside debt is substantially reduced.
For several years after the co. was formed
in 1920 earnings were backward, but the
figures brightened following a change in
the control, and the div. was rushed up
from 9 p.c. to 15 p.c. over the five years
to Oct. 31, 1929. Thus encouraged, those
in control thought it would be a good thing
to link up a number of city hotel properties.
So a holding co., Carlton Investments, Ltd.,
was formed and took over all but a handful
of the 60,000 ords. Shareholders retained
their prefs.—2o,ooo of them, 8 p.c. cumu-
lative, or 6.2 p.c. after allowing for the statu-
tory cut. They now carry two years’
accrued div., and are covered by net assets
with a book value of £5 19s. 9d., including
goodwill.
Cablton Investments, Ltd.
Towards
, Dividends Re- De-
Oct., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, ficit.
1929.. 10,203 7 p.c. 6 p.c. = 9082 1121 185
1930.. 4,723 Si „ 4 „ „ 5239 701
Loss.
1931.. 754 Nil Nil 1455
There is £139,728 of capital to feed in
69.864 fully-paid 7 p.c. cum. prefs. and
139,735 ords. paid to 10s. each. One pref.
and two ords. were handed out for each of
59.864 ords. in the Carlton Hotel and 10,000
ords. in the Eneber Investment Co., which is
also interested in hotel properties. At Oct.
31 the only other tangible was £BO4 of
cash, etc.; creditors figured for £2259.
Neither of the operating cos. paid a div.
last year, so the holding co. had no revdnue
to set against exes. (£754). To pay its own
pref. div. (now 18 months in arrears) and
5 p.c. on its paid-up ordinary capital, the
co. needs to receive divs. aggregating 12 p.c.
on the par value of its holdings. Appear-
ances are that it will be a struggle to keep
up payments to the prefs. There is a possi-
bility that the ords. may be asked for a
bit more to protect their investment should
the bank want its money in a hurry from
the Carlton Hotel. Large mortgages are
difficult to arrange these days, especially in
N. S. Wales.
Hotel Sydney, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 16,450 12J p.c.* = 15,387 1063 1,279
1924.. 15,252 10 „ „ 14,083 1169 2,448
1925.. 16,917 10 ~ „ 13,000 3917 6,365
1926.. 16,723 10 „ „ 13,000 3723 10,088
1927.. 14,653 10 „ „ 13,000 1653 11,741
1928.. 14,961 10 „ „ 13,000 1961 13,702
1929.. 14,026 10 „ „ 13,000 1026 14,728
1930.. 4,671 4 „ „ 5,200 14,199
Loss.
1931.. 2,150 Nil 12,049
*l4 months.
After a checkered career of about nine years,
including five without a license, the co. (then
the Central Palace Buildings, Ltd.) began
to settle down. Divs. commenced in 1921;
the scattering of public loan funds gave
profits a lift, and capital was doubled in
1923 by a gift issue, raising it to its present
figure (£130,000) ; assets were written up
£65,000 for the purpose. At the same time
the name was changed to the present title.
Then, about five years ago, the premises
were remodelled; 70-odd rooms were added
and the board went to its bankers to finance
the outlay. But results failed to come up to
expectations, despite boom conditions; still
enough profit was claimed to pay a regular
10 p.c. div. till the close of accounts in
1929. Now that the tide has run out, the
bauk and other fixed charges have become
troublesome, of course, notwithstanding the
statutory reduction in interest, etc. Last
year gross earnings (£25,434) fell away
£12,648, making the slip £29,421 over the last
two years. Exes. (£27,584) were pulled back
£5827, leaving the balance at £2150 on the
wrong side of the ledger. In the previous year
the profit was 3.5 on capital as against 10.7.
11.5, 11.2, 12.8 and 13 p.c. back to 1925.
There was little change in the financial
position:—
1925. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £130,000 ££130,000 £130,000
Overdraft .. .. 19,125 45,334 45,084
Creditors .. . . 6,474 4,858 3,740
Buildings . . .. 137,373 164,349 161,641
Furniture and plant . . 25,276 26,288 24,000
Stocks 5,184 3,674 3,010
Book debts, cash, etc... 3,559 3,329 2,672
Liabilities were £43,142 in excess of liquids
when the books last closed. The lease runs
out in 1960, and a sinking fund has been
created; but the board has not yet been
in a position to invest the money outside the
business. The debt and that part of the
premises now in excess of requirements are
brth drags. Since it may be a long time
before money becomes plentiful again, the
co.’s prospects are not very 'encouraging.
H’ence the market, which paid 265. 7d. for
the pound shares three years ago, now prices
them at 6s. The return at 6s. would be 5.3
p.c. on a 2$ p.c. div. basis.
Australian Mont de Piete (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. - Dividends. serves, serves.
1920. . 6319 15 p.c. = 1937 4382 19,312
Transferred . to capital, £18,324.. 988
1921.. 4995 74 p.c. = 2341 2654 3,642
1922.. 3477 10 „ „ 3121 356 3,998
1923.. 3348 10 „ „ 3296 52 4,050
Net Depreciation Fund, £719 .. 4,769
1924.. 4346 10 p.c. = 3934 412 5,181
Property reserve, £997)7 .. 15,088
1925.. 4580 10 p.c. = 3996 584 15,672
1926.. 5808 124 „ „ 4995 813 16,485
1927.. 5504 124 „ „ 4995 509 16,994
1928.. 5626 124 „ „ 4995 631 17,625
Added property reserve, £14,281.. 31,906
1929.. 4618 114 p.c. = 4495 123 32,029
1930.. 2487 94 „ „ 3796 30,720
Written off stocks, £3148 .. 27,572
1931.. 4230 10 p.c. = 3996 234 27,806
This co. has been in the pawnbroking busi-
ness in and around Melbourne for half a
Century; and over the last 20 years divs.
have averaged 11.3 p.c., sweetened with
£18,324 of bonus scrip in part restoration
of a writing off early in this century, due to
the peculation of employees. Of recent years
the co.’s lending connections have been
widened by the purchase of several well-
established concerns, and, to finance its
policy of property purchase, the board had
supplemented the £39,960 of share capital
with £51,320 from mortgagees and depositors
at the close of accounts in 1928. This was
good policy while property values were on
the increase; doubts were as to wliat its
effect upon divs. might be when conditions
changed. However, through good manage-
ment or good luck, or because it is a diligent
student of The Bulletin, the co. unloaded
before the break in the market. Thus it was
able to wipe out the mortgage, repay most
of the advances and strengthen reserves by
£14,281 from profits on the deals.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows what happened :
£ £ £ £
1928. 1929. 1930 1931
Paid capital . . £39,960 £39,960 £39,960 £39,960
Mortgages .. 32,150 1,500
Deposits . . . . 19,170 17,970 5,290 4,240
Other liabilities 4,597 6,503 781 701
Freehold, etc. .. 45,754 8,341 8,344 8,283
Advances, stocks,
etc. .. . . 55,723 63,287 64,185 59,022
Liquids .. .. 15,022 28,392 6,020 7,400
Thus outside liabilities, which exceeded
liquids by £40,895 at the close of accounts
in 1928, were more than covered by cash
alone (£6576) at the end of last October.
For the 12 months to that date gross
earnings (£19,198) slipped only £1123, not-
withstanding the obstacles that unemploy-
ment and the moratorium placed in the way
of the redemption of pledges and the sale
of securities. Exes. (£14,968) were got
back £l9Bl, leaving the net result at 10.5
p.c. on capital as against 6.2, 11.5, 14, 13.7
and 14.5 p.c. back to 1926, and the div.
was lifted from p.c. to 10 p.c. To cover
the slip in stock values reserves were tapped
for £3148. But the 10 p.c. div., which
calls for 5.9 p.c. on capital and reserves
combined, is by no means secure. Results
will depend upon many things, including the
soundness of debtors’ balances and the main-
tenance of a satisfactory volume of business.
The pound shares,, which are closely held,
are covered by net tangibles with a book
value of 30s. Id.
Moreton Central Sugar (Q.)
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 32,695 10 p.c. = 8792 23,903 38,224
Reserves capitalised, £21,978 .. 16,246
Dec.,
1925.. 5,632 7 p.c. = 8055 - 13,823
Loss.
1926.. 406 Nil 13,417
Profit.
1927.. 526 Nil 13,943
Loss.
1928.. 6,674 Nil 7,269
Profit.
1929.. 876 Nil 8,145
Loss.
1930.. 7,677 Nil 468
Profit.
1931.. 480 Nil Nil 948
Others in the industry are showing satisfac-
tory results; but this one, which operates
in the Nambour district, limps along, crippled
by the weight of the overdraft and the size
of its plant and the fact that it is too
far south. Encouraged by returns won
during the decade to the close of accounts
in 1925, and by the multiplication of small
growers, the board decided to double the
capacity of the mill, and went to its bankers
(Continued on page 16.)


'» : :
I
: :
,
ijif.Wf
wiki
o-
N
ft
or
Olianqe, io dm y io
Satisfaction
10/6“
20f\'
D
D
m
CIGARETTES.
CORK TIPPED OR PINK
also
Q
a
C 2
Jlake GatUobacco
Jine dutjobacco


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth anu foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Old-established Engineering and Machinery House
of Queensland desires to hear from Australian Manu-
facturers of small stamper batteries and other small
treatment plant, with a view to Queensland repre-
sentation. — Advt.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD. AND REDUCED.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-81.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores,
Gold and Silver Bullion, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (Insured) to either our Sydney or
Port Kembla Office. The company will realise it on your account at current
London prices plus exchange, and will issue you a certificate to enable you
to collect the Gold Bounty.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
O. E. FRIEND
CECIL H. DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors:
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman^
THOS. BUCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 181 7.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital,. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 7! £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
for the money. At the end of last year the
overdraft (£104,072) was still within
£14,012 of paid capital (£118,084), which
includes £56,199 of bonus scrip.
But crushing's had got lighter, juices refrac-
tory and the export surplus also interfered
with earnings:—
. Cane Sugar Manu- Sugar and
Crushed factured By-product Cost
Tons. Tons. Sales. per ton.
1924.. 86,076 10,265 £275,743 £24 12 6
1926.. 57,701 6,743 155,335 23 5 10
1927.. 46,355 5,917 130,266 22 1 10
1928.. 35,364 4,765 98,442 22 0 0
1929.. 48,074 6,510 133,087 20 11 8
1930.. 47,990 6,603 123,206 19 16 1
1931.. 50,932 6,772 110,206 16 3 7
Last, year’se-drop in both the sales and costs
figures was duo to the reduction in the con-
tract price for raws. But the heavier crush-
ing helped, and a small profit (£480) was
shown as against a loss of £7677 in the pre-
vious year. Still, until the debt is substan-
tially reduced, and while the plant, which is
capable of turning out 100,000 tons p.a., gets
only half a meal or less, the business is not
likely to be worth much to shareholders.
At Dec. 31 the outside debt (£109,451)
exceeded liquids, including stocks, by
£56,859, or £9418 less than the excess at the
previous balance. Fixed assets figured at
£206,090.
Exactly what the future holds for the in-
dustry it is difficult to say at the moment.
Production is divided into three main sec-
tions —growing, milling and refining. Most
of the present trouble is due to over-produc-
tion on the growing side. The Government,
which has controlled the price of sugar
locally since 1915, missed the opportunity
to correct this. Last year a new agree-
ment was entered into between the Com-
monwealth and Queensland Governments
reducing the base price of raws for home
consumption from £26 to £22 per ton for
the next three years. But the price to the
public has not been reduced; instead, the
sugar industry is to assist the fruit indus-
try to the extent of £315,000 p.a. Sugar
is the third most important item in the com-
posite unit on which the statistician’s retail
price index number is based. The Prime
Minister has suggested a voluntary con-
ference with the view to a reduction in
the retail price. The most satisfactory solu-
tion of the problem appears t 0 lie in the
extent to which production can be curtailed
without endangering the whole structure.
Assuming that the surplus exported for
1931 (about 40 p.c. of production) averages
£8 per ton as against £8 ss. in 1930, the
average price for the whole Australian out-
put would be about £l6 Bs. compared with
£l9 13s. Id. in 1930. Thus on the average
the drop in last year’s gross return to the
miller and grower promises to be over 16
p.c.; though the effect of this has been partly
offset by wage reductions. Still, it has all
caused fluctuations and weakness in price
of sugar scrip on the market.
Robert Reid and Co. Reconstruct
No longer able to employ all its funds with
satisfactory results in the business, Robert
Reid and Co., Ltd., proposes to reduce its paid
capital from £1,059,035 to £554,518, and to
modify the pref. rights. Capital as it now
stands is in 200,000 first 7 p.c. and 250,000
second 8 p.c. prefs., both cumulative, and
609,035 ords. Reconstructed according to
present proposals, it would be in 100,000
first 5 p.c. and 150,000 second 6 p.c. prefs.,
both non cumulative, and 304,518 ords. The
reduction is to be effected by a cash return
of 10s. and Bs. per share to the first and
second prefs. respectively; the ord. capital
is to be halved by striking off ss. per share
(£152,258) and issuing 4i p.c. deposit war-
rants in respect of the other ss. All this
complete, the scrip is to be consolidated into
fully-paid pound shares, which will be ex-
changed in the proportion of one for two for
both first prefs. and ords., and three for
five seconds.
The deposit warrants are repayable after
.Tune 30, 1937, at the discretion of the
board. The writing off, which amounts to
£941l less than the bonus scrip issued in
1920, is to wipe out losses (£78,338 at
July 31 last) and part of the goodwill
(£71,480). The net tangible cover for the
new profs, will be about the same as for
the old paper, the board says—it was £5-
odd first and £3 seconds at last balance. The
new prefs. are to have the right to partici-
pate up to their former rates (7 p.c. firsts
and 8 p.c. seconds) on a pro rata basis with
the ords., after the latter have received 7$
p.c. The old provision that, after payment
of pref. divs., 10 p.c. of the remaining profit
goes to a pref. div. equalisation reserve, is
to stand. This reserve now figures at
£46,000, which is said to be enough to cover
pref. requirements as reduced (£14,000 p.a.)
for the next two years; apparently after
payment of arrears to date.
On the basis of the proposed reconstruc-
tion, the share capital and deposit warrants
combined (£706,777) would need to net a
shade under 6 p.c. to cover interest on the
warrants, the minimum pref. divs. and 7J
p.c. to the ords. If the prefs. are to receive
their maximum rates, the same funds would
have to turn in over 7.3 p.c.
An obvious weakness in the proposal is
th,e prefs.’ loss of cumulative rights. Cer-
tainly they have the protection of the div.
equalisation reserve already referred to, but
that is no more than they already had. With
things as they are a strong case can be made
out for a compromise on the question of
pref. div. rates ; but cancellation of the right
to receive any divs. at all during the lean
years strikes at one of the underlying prin-
ciples governing investment; hence the
market looks askance at the proposal—
especially since the ords. will come in
ahead of the pi-efs. for 4£ p.c. on £152,25S
of deposit warrants, until repaid. The
ords. have averaged only 5.4 p.c. over
the last 11 yeai's, but the gift issue
(£161,669) in 1920 makes 5.4 p.c. worth a
shade over 7 p.c. to old holders.
On the market the firsts ixow fetch 17s.
and the seconds 14s. 6d. as against 14s. 6d.
and Bs. 6d. respectively in October last.
Allowing for the return of capital, the yield
at the higher prices is 7.1 p.c. firsts and
11 p.c. seconds on a 5 p.c. and 6 p.c. div.
basis respectively The ords. are held mostly
by family interests and those in the business.
New Cement Co.
A proposal is afoot to establish’ new
cement works at Burrum, near Maryborough
(Q.). Large quantities of suitable shale
are available on the spot, coal can be had
near by from Queensland Collieries, Ltd.,
which is controlled by the Rankins, lime-
stone is to be drawn from Marule, about
41 miles away, and arrangements are said
to have been made with the railway autho-
rities for a daily supply of about 500,000
gallons of water free. Capital outlay is
estimated at about £300,000, of which the
British Board of Trade lias agreed to
advance £120,000, under the Trade Facilities
Act, towards the purchase of plant from
Newell and Co., England. Colonel Rankin
says the £120,000 will be available for five
years at 1 p.c. above Bank of England i-ate;
no payments will be required during the
first two years. Newells say they would
“back” the proposition to the extent of
£BO,OOO, and the Australian public is pre-
sently to be asked to put up £BO,OOO.
Details of capital outlay and profit
estimates will not be available until the
prospectus, now in course of preparation,
is issued.' The plant is to have a capacity
of 60,000 tons p.a., and it is expected to
sell cement at from £3 to £3 10s. per ton
at the works. But whether the co. will be
able to do this and make a profit remains
to be seen.
The Queensland Lime and Cement Co. has
been charging £5 17s. per ton at its works
at Darra; but _ the figure is presently to
be reduced, owing to the use of material
from Mud Island. The co. is capitalised at
£245,061; and for the 12 months to July 31
last it netted 7.6 p.c. on capital, maldng
an average of 10.8 p.c. over the last five
years, which include the peak of the boom
in the cement trade. The co. has not yet
been able to work its plant to capacity.
The trouble with the industry to-day is
that it is heavily overcapitalised. Total
Australian plant capacity is estimated at
1,260,000 tons jj.a., whereas Australian sales
for 1931 were iess than 290,000 tons.
Assuming that the capital cost of plant
is, say, £5 per ton of capacity, this means
that no less than £4,850,000 of capital in-
vested in the industry is on the unemployed
list at the moment. When sales reached
their peak figure (713,377 tons) in 1927
they were less than 60 p.c. of present plant
capacity. To wdxat extent the new co. may
be able to cut into the limited trade avail-
able will lai’gely depend upon whether its
estimate of costs proves to be correct.
The State-owned and -operated Chillagoe
Smelters (Q.) blew in on January 19 with
sufficient ore on hand and in sight for 12
months’ work. Arrangements have been made
to treat 10,000 tons of flue dust, assaying
8 p.c. copper and ldwt. gold, from the idle
Mt. Elliott plant. The Smelters have
raised the rate on gold ores from the re-
duced figure of 15s. per ton to the smelt-
ing cost rate of 365. per ton; but exchange
is now added to the value of the gold
obtained. Copper ore is being paid for
on the basis of £52 per ton for copper,
which shows the value of the exchange.
“Oil-hunter”: Mclntosh Reid recently
completed an intensive geological survey of
an area extending from Portland Bay to the
Glenelg River (Vic.) for the Western Petro-
leum Exploration Co. One result has been
two bulletins and a series of geological
maps, explaining that oil and bitumen exist
over an area of about 12 miles by seven
miles. One-lialf of this area has been placed
under option to a London syndicate; the
other half is said to be subject to an
agreement with the Vacuum Oil Co., which
has been given the right to check Reid’s data,
etc. The survey occupied about IS months.
»!» :{: ■!”
At the Aberfoyle tinmine, on the n.-e.
coast of Tas., two magnetic separators from
the idle Shepherd and Murphy bismuth-mine
are being installed in the new mill to ex-
tract the wolfram from the tin concentrates.
The narrow tin-bearing quartzy reefs are
rich in wolfram, particularly on the lower
levels. A rich patch of wolfram was also
located during the driving of the new main
adit. The annual output of wolfram in
Tas. has averaged 120 tons of recent years.
It has all come from the Storey Creek mine,
not far from Aberfoyle. The market requires
a 65 p.c. wolfram oxide concentrate con-
taining less than 1.5 p.c. metallic tin. The
price has slumped lately to 14s. 6d. per
unit of oxide.
* * * *
The market is wondering why North Kal-
gurli doesn’t amalgamate with the South
Kalgurli or throw in its lot with the Enter-
prise, over which B. H. Prop, has an option.
The three _ properties adjoin. North Kal-
gurli is said to have a few hundred thou-
sand tons of payable stuff in sight; but it
lias very little cash and no plant. South
Kalgurli lias a plant, but could do with sub-
stantial additions to its ore reserves. It is
doubtful whether the Enterprise is big
enough for B. H. Prop, without North Kal-
gurli.
=-:= * :f. sjc
Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.), has
resumed the sinking of its main inclined
shaft below the 25 level, or 3849 ft. inclined
depth. A long drive of 800 ft. south will be
necessary before the main lode, which is
pitching south, is reached on the new level. At
the 25 level this lode has a length of about
600 ft.; but, of course, there are also the
middle lode and the more important hang-
ing wall lode, both of which are expected to
live down. The Sons of Gwalia is looking
better than for many years, and its costs are
an example to Kalgoorlie mines.
* * *
During the eight weeks to the end of
January the Okarito Five Mile Beach Gold
Dredging Co., on the West Coast of Maori-
land, treated 45,000 c.y. for 5450 z. gold. The
ss. paids recently fetched 9s. 9d. in the
market, or about four times as much as they
did 12 months ago. The scrip in Gillespie’s Co.,
which holds about 300 acres of black sand
and shingle close to the Okarito show, is
being asked for. Here prospecting bores
have shown an average of Is. lid. per yard.
There is plenty of water, but the co. does
not expect to begin earning until towards
the close of this year.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I have paid £35 into Home Endowment,
Ltd., as subscription towards a loan. Is
it worth while continuing payment? Or
would you advise me to forfeit the £35?
Ballots are very infrequent, and numerous
subscribers are advertising their deposits for
sale at a 50 p.c. discount. —S33B.
There is no question of forfeiting your
deposits; even though you stop paying now,
what you have already put in is all repayable
some day, at the discretion of the directors.
Meantime it bears interest at 2 % p.c. Hard-
ship has caused many subscribers to fall
behind in their payments. Some of them
want the money urgently, hence the advts.
in “S. M. Herald.” The manager informs
us that the smaller number of ballots has
been largely due to the impossibility of rais-
ing the necessary, first-mortgage money on
homes, owing to the N. S. W. mora-
torium and property legislation. Sub-
scribers’ money finances only a percentage
of the loan allotted by ballot. The co. is
reported to be making "a small profit, despite
chaotic conditions in the real-estate business.
I bought 100 first prefs. in Robert Reid
and Co. at 14s. 3d. each. Was this a good
investment ? —8386.
The return at 14s. 3d. is 9.8 p.c. on
a 7 p.c. div. basis. If the board’s proposals
are adopted you will receive £5O in cash,
being part return of capital, and still have
50 fl 5 p.c. non.-cum. prefs. at a net cost
of 4s. 3d. each. And the return at 4s. 3d.
is 11.7 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
Any information about Rabaul and Dis-
trict Electricity Supply Co., Ltd.? What
are its prospects? —S34l.
Co. is being formed to manufacture and
sell electricity at Rabaul. Nominal is
£30,000 in £1 shares, or which 35,000 are
offered. Vendors take £4OOO in paids for
a 21 years’ franchise, with right of exten-
sion for a further nine years. The remaining
11,000 shares are in reserve. Cost of instal-
lation is put at £14,000. Revenue, £5600;
exes., including taxation, £3640, leaving
£1960 net, or 10.3 p.c. on a capital of
£19,000. With a monopoly of a public util-
ity the co. should bo able to pay reasonable
divs., though how long it will ' take to get
into its stride it is impossible to say at the
moment. On the board are J. E. Donoghue,
D. Y. Narme, Dr. C. T. B. Maiser and J. P.
Leader, all of Sydney.
The latest return of the Commonwealth
Bank shows notes in circulation at January
27, 1930, £42,639.226; January 25, 1932,
£52,302,426. Meantime the gold reserve has
decreased. Yet prices have fallen and so
have wages. In view of this inflation should
they not have risen? —B4B4.
Notes in the hands of the public have been
practically stationary:—
Held by Held by Total
Banks. Public. Issue.
Jan. 27, ’30.. £17,188,000 £25,451,000 £42,639,000
Jan. 25, ’32.. 26,581,000 25,721,000 52,302,000
The Commonwealth Bank took over the gold
held by the trading banks and paid for it
in notes; hence the increase in notes held
by the banks. But notes are only one form
of money. Under existing conditions bank
deposits and the velocity of circulation
(bank clearances) have a greater influence
on prices ; there lias been a heavy shrinkage
in both deposits and clearances.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Exchange: On foreign coins and. currency
by selling to travellers; on old gold by re-sale
F. : A gamble. Depends on whether there is a
market when the timber is ready for sale. There
is none at present... .S.S.S.: Leave it where it is
G. : No; a gamble at long odds... .D.C.C.A.: (1)
and (2) The venture is heavily overcapitalised, and
the industry is in a parlous condition. Prospects
of satisfactory returns on present bond-subscribed
capital look hopeless at the moment. (3) Bonds
are not dealt in on Stock Exchange. Write to the
secretary... .G.R.G.: You have more to gain by
holding on than by letting go W.R.8.: (1) Doubt
is whether co. will be able to work all its dredges
at a profit. The insurance group is worth investi-
gating. (2) Yes; the statutory cut reduces the
actual distribution from 7 5 p.c. to 5.8 p.c. It is
class legislation ; the Government gets no benefit. A
change therefore might bring relief, and with it a
lift in the market price... .H.T.S;: (1) No liability.
(2) 17s. 6d. per share, though there probably won’t
be any need to call it up. A part-amalgamation with
the Bris. Permanent is pending. (3) No; liquidation
is to be carried out “as expeditiously as possible, with-
out undue sacrifice.” (4) In the event of the pur-
chaser failing to meet his obligations your security
will probably be retained until the subject-matter
of the mortgage is realised.... Roofing-screw: In
October, 1930, the bounty of £3 3s. a ton on gal-
vanised iron was discontinued, and an embargo placed
on the imported product. This expired in March,
1931, and shortly afterwards the bounty of £4 10s.
and duty of £1 a ton then obtaining was displaced
by a straightout British preferential duty of £5 10s.
Last week’s tariff amendments do not affect the
position, though Lysaght’s are voluntarily reducing the
price to £26 10s. a ton wholesale.... R.E.G.: (1)
Apparently some of it does. (2) Gloomy. (3) and
(4) Cannot say; the co. itself is more or less a
private one. (5) £5 7s. 6d. of each £2l 10s.
“A’’ issue bond was to be deposited with the
Public Trustee. (6) N 0... .M.W. (Katoomba) : (1)
The talkie industry in Australia has possibilities,
but putting money into this new co. would be a
pure gamble. The directors appear to be a muster-
ing of the local professional and trades people,- and
wholly inexperienced. (2) F. W. Thring is pro-
ducing Australian talkies, but with what profit out-
siders don’t know.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
The Men on the Track „
Dear R.,—There is a lot in “A.N.M. s
plea (B. 10/2/’32) to let single men draw
rations without keeping continually on the
tramp. Very few people care to give a job
to a stranger fresh off the track; this app es
especially where the man has to be take
into the home and boarded, as is often the
case in the country. If a man were allowed
t 0 camp for, say, one month m any town,
he would have a chance of becoming known
to prospective employers, lours, Syl-
vester.
Broadcasting
Dear B.,—“Eureka” (B. 17/2/’32) advo-
cates the conversion of A-class broadcast-
ing stations into free advertising mediums,
like the B stations, his reasons being that
the B programmes are superior. It depends
on what he means by “superior. B
stations seldom, if ever, broadcast a whole
symphony, or a sonata, or a health talk, or
an educational session for schools. Ihe A
stations are pretty awful, but the Govern-
ment compels them to provide . scores ot
public services which the B stations never
bother their heads about. A license fee ot
sixpence a week may seem excessive to
“Eureka,” but to others it may seem a
small price to pay for even one Beethoven
concerto scored by a first-class European
orchestra with Kreisler’s violin playing the
solo part. I would not dream of accus-
ing the A.B.C. of an undue amount ot
altruism, but it has already laid down the
foundations of a national symphonic orches-
tra and lias a good, if limited, collection of
recorded musical numbers. The B stations
content themselves mainly with tinpot jazz
bands and tenth-rate foxtrots, and their
educational activities are confined to in-
structing the public in the virtues of
Brown’s face-powder and Smith’s safety-
razors. —Yours, Listening Insect.
The Age of Voters
Dear B., —I went hot and cold when read-
ing your sub-leader (B. 10/2/’32), in which
you accuse me and other youngsters of
plunging this country into its present politi-
cal mess. I disclaim the honor. We are
the only ones who are wholly innocent. By
all means disqualify criminals, publicans,
bookmakers and public servants from voting.
But lower the voting age at both ends. The
youth of to-day has a good deal more dis-
cerning power than his “old man.” The old
chap’s ideas began to “fix,” let’s say, just
after the war, and times have changed since
then. For instance. An uncle of mine
remembers the 80-hour week, the workman
a slave and the capitalist a sweater. Rightly
enough he saw salvation in the Labor
party. Now, in spite of the obvious changes
which have taken place, he still regards the
L.P. as the saviour of the race, and votes
accordingly. On the contrary,_ the. man who
saw the L.P. snatch away his nice profits
will vote Nationalist as long as he lives,
firmly convinced that high profits mean uni-
versal prosperity. If at the next election
new candidates should arise who could save
us, who would vote them to power? Cer-
tainly not the old men, whose faculties are
encumbered with the rust of age, but the
youths whose ears and eyes are not con-
fused with the burblings of yesteryear. —
Yours, etc., Snakespeare.
Woolgrower and Broker
Dear B., —“Royal Orange” (B. 24/2/’32)
states that when his wool goes to the broker,
he, “R. 0.,” loses control of it, for instance,
as to the date on which it should he sold.
Wool is sold in rotation, dependent on date
of arrival in store, and in accordance with
the zone system arranged by the graziers’
representatives and the brokers. The organi-
sation would be completely wrecked if the
grower had the choosing of his sale day.
Imagine a slight rise in the market and. every
other owner clamoring for the inclusion of
his clip in that week’s sale! Wool could not
be displayed, nor would buyers have time to
inspect and value it.
The charge that the woolgrower is re-
fused an accurate valuation is contrary to
my experience. My broker notifies me of the
date on which my wool will be offered. I
get a copy of his valuation of each lot, and
on sale day I inspect the wool, in company
with the brokers’ expert, with whom I fix
my reserve. Anyone who has ever attended
a sale will realise the impossibility of re-
ferring each bid to seller. —Yours, Murra-
WONG.
The Farmer and the Tariff
Dear Bulletin, —Adjust the price level
of all other commodities, wages and services
to that of wheat, and most of the world’s ills
would disappear. Wheat-growing is the
single largest industry in the world. The price
of wheat determines the price of other
cereals. In turn, the reduced spending
power of farmers —by reason of the fact
that every £1 reduction in primary wealth
means a loss of £2 in the national income
—reduces the secondary spending power of
the whole of the community by double that
amount. Restore the spending power of
farmers by adjusting price levels to that
of wheat,' and the depression must pass
away.
An unhampered exchange is the single
biggest factor in correcting the disparity
between the basic price (wheat) and that
of other commodities, wages, etc. . Unfor-
tunately, we have only had that in part,
and that for the last 13 months, whereas
England resisted this economic force until
last September. This exchange factor,. if
given free play, would also force America
and France to again put the frozen por-
tion .of their hoarded gold into circulation.
To attempt to correct an adverse balance
of trade by the tariff alone can only succeed
in placing a tremendous burden upon export
industries. Such a policy is the quick road
to national collapse. Indeed, high protec-
tion, when every industry is protected by
tariffs, merely results in a clumsy and un-
scientific system of freetrade, which has
a paralysing influence upon those industries
which are the producers of the real wealth
of the community.— l am, etc., Fi Si Alford.
Communism and Capitalism
Dear Bulletin, —How does it come about
that while the leading nations of the world
are being overrun with surplus workmen
looking for enough to keep them alive, Russia
can keep her people employed and a few
months ago imported 6000 agricultural
experts from America? —and, by the way,
there were over 100,000 applicants for the
jobs. The Australian worker is told that a
Communistic machine would merely scrap
him when it has no further use for him.
Well, what’s happened to him now?
Communism was laughed at up to a few
years ago because William Lane couldn’t
make it work. But private enterprise has
not been laughed at as much as it should
be because hundreds of business men have
failed in the past few years. They have
failed because they probably had not the
same capacity as Henry Ford, and Lane
went down for much the same reason —not
altogether because his policy was unwork-
able, but because he was not made of the
same stuff as Lenin or Stalin. —Yours.
J. M. P.
Buying a Radio Set
Dear B., —Buying a radio set is like buy-
ing a pig in a bag. Every part of the set
(including the valves) may be second-hand
and inferior. Many of them are sealed, and
to break that seal renders the guarantee
invalid. A set will give the best results for
a short time even though inferior parts have
been used, and they may even last out the
12 months ; but after that the owner is in
for a lot of trouble. The remedy is in a regu-
lation compelling set-makers to use materials
of a standard quality. Inferior materials are
holding back wireless development; until
the public knows that it can rely on the
articles bought, wireless will, not have public
confidence.—Yours, Eureka.
Pensions
Dear 8.,—1n my very narrow circle I
know two old-age pensioners who shouldn’t
be. No. 1 is a hardy old bushman drawing
f 1 a week and keep; he gets the o.a.p.—
and drinks the lot. In No. 2 case a man
died and left two sons 640 acres of fine
dairying and agricultural land. The widow
draws the old-age pension; a daughter the
invalid pension. The two women do all the
housework for a single son, who boasts that
the two pensions keep the house going.
Here’s a chance for Lyons to save millions,
if the fraud is as prevalent as I should judge
it to be.—Yours, Nemesis.
Is This Good Policy?
Dear Bulletin,; —After the war I secured
a job as book-keeper. From book-keeper I
became accountant, cus-
toms agent, cost account-
ant, merchandise man-
ager and finally a branch
manager. I gained this
promotion over the heads
of employees who had thp
pull over me in length of
service. When depres-
sion came the staff was
whittled down, and event-
ually I too had to join
the worldess army. But
not because I was incom-
petent—because I had
flown too high! I asked
for retention in an in-
ferior position. This was
denied me on the ground
that when things im-
proved I would be rein-
stated, and in the mean-
time it was undesirable
that X came in contact •
with the common herd on
equal status! It was
Hobson’s choice. I stood
oft' for 12 months. When
things became financially
acute I pressed my late
chief for a job of any
sort. I got one —three
days per month ! Em-
ployees who use to “sir’ - '
me nowgrinned, and I know
my managership has gone
for ever. I can’t blame
my old chief—he’s a wor-
ried devil —but what I
know now is that if I
hadn’t swotted up on all
branches of my job. I
would be in one to-day.
And I put it to execu-
tives that this policy of
discharging the men who
have climbed high is a
great mistake. Yours,
faithfully, J. C.
Australian Tobacco
Dear B., —After using
a very good Australian-
grown pipe-tobacco, at
sd. an ounce, for about
a year, I was told early
in 1931 that the “supply
of leaf was not equal to
the demand,” and that I
would have to pay 6d.
for the same tobacco. For
the last six months I
have continued to pay
fid., notwithstanding that
T have often seen it in
the papers that much
larger areas are now un-
der tobacco in Australia,
than formerly. A week
or so ago I was told,
when I went to the to-
bacconists who have sup-
plied me for years, that
as to Australian tobacco
they were “rationed,” and
could only let me have a
small quantity at a time,
and that at 7d. But they
offered me an imported
tobacco at the same price
in any quantity. About
the same time I saw that
the manufacturers in
Australia wanted the growers to supply them
with a finer quality leaf, as well as the
commoner kind, but that the growers did
not consider it worth their while to spend
the money in building the necessary curing
sheds.” If I continue to buy Australian-
grown and -manufactured tobacco, shall I
be a patriot or a damned fool? —Yours, C. H.
Souter.
The Right to the Dole
Dear Bulletin. —In these days of general
obfuscation, when words are being hurled at
us from every side, it might be as well for
all of us, including “Hugh G.” (B. 17/2/’32),
to see that terms are not used inaccurately.
A dole is a gratuity; a gratuity is a present;
and no one has any “right” to a present.
There is no analogy between subsidising the
industries of wheat, sugar, etc., and dole-
granting. The former gives an indirect
material return to the donor; the latter
doesn’t —it pauperises both the individual
and the State; it is yet another unproductive
work.
“Hugh G.” shows his mentality when he
asks, “Is ‘EmeP prepared to keep eternal
vigil over the family pantry and repulse
eacli burly bagman who, prompted by the
instinct of independent self-preservation, con-
tends that he has more right to its contents
than he [‘Emel’]?” To which the answer
is here and now given with no mincing of
words. Yes! Should the police force at any
time be scrapped, there are a thousand
thousand citizens prepared to repulse (to
their last breath) such depredations as
“Hugh G.” suggests. It is time the “Hugh
G.’s” were told very definitely that the com-
munity can takp care of itself, and refuses
to buy civil peace with a dole. —Yours,
S. N. R.
Wanted, a Four-dimensional Economics
Dear Bulletin, —M. C. De Garis (B.
17/2/’32) will have to give better reasons
for his advocacy of Time as a basic econo-
mic factor. Economics is the science, not
of making money, but of producing and dis-
tributing artificial objects (wealth) from
and upon natural resources (land) by man.
It certainly takes Time to produce and dis-
tribute wealth, but who has ever made Time
“function”? He writes: “Time, however,
not only creates, it destroys.” Does it? The
productive process in economics begins wivn
initiatory adaptations of natural raw mat-
erials ; it ends with deliveries of finished
products t 0 ultimate consumers, in accord-
ance with their demands. Drawn from
natural resources, these products return to
natural resources. Their substance is inde-
structible. Time can no more destroy an
atom of the physical universe than it can
create one. Man cannot even create or
destroy. His powers in consumption as in
production arc limited to altering natural
resources in location and form. The essen-
tial economic difference between production
and consumption is that production alters
natural objects so as to adapt them to the
satisfaction of human wants, whereas con-
sumption alters artificial objects in the pro-
cess of satisfying those wants. Production
is the drawing forth by man of artificial
objects from and upon natural resources;
consumption is the passing back by man of
artificial objects to natural resources. With
the processes of consumption the science of
economics has nothing to do. Its functions
end with delivery to final consumers. —Tours
etc., Schoolboy Economist.
A National Government
Dear Bulletin, —If the Lyons-Latham
group wished to call to their counsels one
or more of the leaders of Labor, to whom
could they turn? If Mr. Scullin, for example,
felt justified for good patriotic reasons, in
joining the new Government, he vrould be
at once disowned by official Labor, and the
ideal of a Government representative of every
party in the State would be about as far off
as ever. The new Cabinet would have gained
an additional colleague, but Labor in all
its official forms would still be an opponent
and not a supporter. Even Mr. Hughes’s
so-called National War Government of 1917
did not solve this problem.
At present councils of Labor openly
summon Ministers before them and threaten
them with lifelong banishment from political
life unless they bring in this, or withdraw
that, provide this political bribe or repu-
diate that nation-wide agreement, just as
the particular coterie directs. It is this
extra-Parliamentary tyranny which _ makes
it impossible for the most conciliatory
majority of other parties to secure the
responsible co-operation of members pro-
fessing to represent Labor.
A courageous Parliament would find means
of outlawing this flaunting outrage upon its
independence, this audacious attempt to pre-
vent Ministers and members alike from doing
their public duty, this piratical usurpation
of the rights of the whole body of electors. —
Yours, etc., M. S.
Unpaid-for Bridges
Dear B.,—Across the Mascot-Cook’s River
Bridge any fine Sunday afternoon 800 motor
vehicles pass per hour to and from Brighton-
le-Sands. This bridge was built on bor-
rowed money, and so far hasifit earned a
penny. Yet a 6d. toll on vehicles should
bring in a revenue of about £3OOO per year
for Sundav traffic only, and thus lift in time
the burden of the debt. Why should there
be a charge on one bridge and not on an-
other? —Yours, L. Liz.
THE PIED PIPER OF SYDNEY TOWN.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Blue Roses”
Criterion “Bright Side Up”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Chocolate Soldier”
King’s “The Barretts of Wimpole Street”
State Movies and Talkies
©■
A Talkie Interlude
In Melbourne’s Little Bourke-street, late
at night, this Showman ran into Tal Ordell.
That hero was supporting his long frame
against a barrier surrounding a glittering
cinema-recording truck. His face was cov-
ered with maxfactor, the yellow stuff cinema
actors put on
their counten-
ances to please
the camera. Be-
tween his legs
ran an electric
cable conveying
power from an-
other truck that
was panting ex-
citedly up a
lane. Other
cables went in
other directions
to sound trucks
and things like
that. People
with mega-
phones and re-
solute faces
rushed about. A
number of enor-
mous lamps
threw a couple
of million
candle - power
into a narrow
lane where there
was a light rail-
way, along
which two gen-
tlemen pushed a
recording
camera mounted
on wheels. In
various door-
ways sat a
drunk, a China-
“The Barretts of Wim-
pole-street,” at Melb.
King’s.
Richard Fair as Capt.
Surtees Brook.
man, a lady of assessable virtue and other
characters of the underworld.
The last time the Showman had seen
Ordell was six years ago, when he produced
and acted in his own play, “Kangaroo Flat,”
at the Athenaeum. Now he was waiting to
take his cue as Ginger in “The Sentimental
Bloke” —he was the original Ginger in the
stage play, but this was the talkie version
being made by Thring.
Optimism is the actor’s oxygen—he can-
not breathe without it. Tal talked of the
grand future awaiting the Australian talkie.
Nobody knows the back country better. It
“The Barretts of
Wimpole-street,” at
Melb. King’s.
Bellenden Clarke
Papa Moulden-
Barrett.
was his idea that
no more intelligence
and enterprise than
Australian p r o-
ducers and actors
can provide be-
tween them is re-
quired for the bush-
man to supplant the
American cowboy
in the regard and
affection of the
world’s flapperdom.
He is the world’s
best rider, has
a unique brand
of humor and a
casual way with
him that would en-
dear him to the
multitudi nous
lovers of red-
blooded he-manism.
Every country
whi c h produces
films is best known
for those which
give more or less
realistically the
peculiar flavor of
their own environment, just as the most
universally popular comedians are those who,
like Chevalier and Lauder, retain their
national characteristics while expressing
emotions which are universal. Ordell is
himself a realist. His Ginger Mick is, in
its way, a masterpiece of observation.
Ordell’s Ginger is the apotheosis of the
national habit of leaning. It is a posture
that superficially suggests hopeless inertia,
but Ordell succeeds in conveying the impres-
sion that it is the embodiment of potential
energy, like the balance of a Greek statue.
A leader-writer might use it as the text of
an article culminating in the episode of
Gallipoli. Ordell got his idfia of Ginger Mick
from looking at the Gingers supporting the
lamp-posts in George-street, Sydney. The
trouble about
Australian pro-
ducers of movies
to date is that all
they have looked
at has been Eng-
lish and Ameri-
can pictures. All
they produce is a
very bad copy of
what they have
looked at. Two
recent produc-
tio n s couldn’t
have been worse
examples. They
smelt of the
studio lamp, not
of eucalyptus.
Ordell was not
discouraged. H'e
was convinced
that the Austra-
lian drama, which
had failed to
make its mark on
the legitimate
“The Barretts of
Wimpole-street,” at
Melb. King’s.
Poet Browning (Barry
K. Barnes) and Eliza-
beth Barrett (Mar-
garet Rawlings).
stage, would come into its own on the screen.
While the Showman was yarning with
Ordell the preparations for bringing a
further stage of the greatest screen classic
of the century to fruition were completed.
A male character started to pursue a girl
along the lane, and the railroading camera
began to pursue the pair. It was all over
in 30 seconds, and the elaborate cavalcade
began to pack up.
Adapted from the novel “The Imperfect
Lover,” H. M. Harwood and R. Gore
Browne’s “Cynara,” staged by the Pickwick
Theatre Group, Sydney, at the Savoy
Theatre last week, tells the story of an err-
ing husband from the masculine point of
view. Taking as their text Dowson’s line “I
have been faithful to thee, Cynara, in my
fashion.” the authors set out to prove why
wives should condone their husbands’ moral
lapses, and why ladies who enter into illicit
relations should keep to the rules agreed upon
in the beginning. A largely feminine audience
seemed to approve the arguments advanced.
The play begins with a prologue—or, rather,
the first half of an epilogue—and reveals
on the balcony of a Capri hotel Jim War-
lock, a presentable barrister in his thirties,
and Clemency, his wife. Warlock is under
a cloud, and has had to leave England. His
wife, while knowing the cause of his disgrace,
is anxious to know what inner spirit moved
him to stray. Jim commences • his confes-
sion, the stage is darkened, and in the next
scene the pair are seen in their London
home three months before. Clemency is on
the point of taking a flighty younger
sister to Aix to prevent her running
away with a married parachutist. Jim
protests, but Clemency departs, leaving him
with a free leg for a month. The grass-
widower is whisked off to a Soho restaurant
by John Tring, a cynical old man about
town. There, at Tring’s instigation, they
make the acquaintance of Doris Lea and
Millie Miles, young dressmakers. Jim is dis-
turbed at the impropriety of the procedure,
though he finds Doris attractive. All four
meet again accidentally at the opening of
a suburban swimming pool, at which War-
lock judges a bathing-beauty contest. Doris
wins, injures herself and is escorted home by
Jim. There are other .meetings,' and Jim and
Doris find themselves alone in the latter’s flat.
Doris flings herself, at him, and tells him
that he won’t be the first. Clemency returns,
.and Jim, who has made no secret of the fact
that he is married, and happily married, tells
Doris that the affair must cease. Doris,
however, is too much in love with him to
let him go. He fails to keep an appoint-
ment with her, and she poisons herself. A
letter that makes their - relationship clear
obliges him to give evidence at the inquest.
The foreman of> the jury asks a pointed
question; Jim declines to answer, and
his silence is interpreted as a baseless slan-
der on the girl’s character. The coroner
rebukes him as a callous libertine. The
scene shifts again to Capri. Jim lias told
his story, and it looks as if the result will
be a dissolution of the partnership. Tring
comes to the rescue and argues so well in
his friend’s defence that the curtain rings
down on the Warlocks making preparations
for starting life afresh in Central Africa.
The play takes a long time to. get moving—-
the first scene in the first act is mostly irre-
levant, and so is the swimming-pool scene;
hut it grips when it gets going. Producer
A. C. Winn placed a fairly convincing bunch
of players on the stage—there were over 60
of them —and the scenery throughout its
many changes looked the real thing. As
Jim Warlock, Clive Coppard did not exactly
fit the r6le, but mastered its main essentials.
Adele Quinn, who stepped in at the last
minute to take Maisie Swann’s place as
Clemency, did surprisingly well. Joy Howarth
gave a very appealing portrayal of the un-
fortunate Doris, and Jo Weekes, as the can-
did Millie, put liveliness into her work.
Eric Howell, an old pro., was lifelike as
Tring. Caroline Forsyth, A. S. Reading,
Flora Abbott, Patricia Pantin, Bill Firth
and Allan Holloway played subsidiary parts
competently. The play was under the direc-
tion of Dorise Hill am, Phillip Lewis. It
will be followed in about six weeks’ time
by Noel Coward’s “The Vortex.”
At St. James’s
Hall on Saturday
the New Sydney
Rep. Soc. staged
“The Man Who
Wouldn’t Quit,” a
comedy by P. C.
Wodehouse and
Victor McClure.
Edward Devson
(John Mat on)
goes bathing at
Thorpe Regis-by-
the-sea. He is
seized by cramp,
and is in danger of
drowning when
Percival Sheepwell
(William Rees)
heroically rescues
him. Agatha Dev-
son (Mrs. J. W.
Maund), the saved
man’s wife, feels
that she must ex-
press her gratitude
in some practical
form, and invites
Sheepwell to *be
her guest for a few weeks. The rescuer
proves to be an arrant bounder. He
badgers the servants, helps himself to
whatever he wants without asking, hogs
the daily papers, borrows his host’s expen-
sive car and makes a general nuisance
of himself. Weeks pass, but delicate hints
that he has outstayed his welcome go un-
heeded. Sheepwell at this stage brings his
daughter Daphne (Helen Williams) to live
with the family. She is a charming girl,
and the Devsons like her immensely, especi-
ally the son Dick (William Gates). This
strengthens Sheepwell’s hold, for the Devsons
cannot very well turn the father out without
offending the girl. Daphne, however, sees
that her father is not welcome, and leaves
of her own accord despite the protests of
Dick, who wants to marry her. The situation
becomes more serious, as the servants have
threatened to leave in a body because of
Sheepwell. The Devsons pretend that they
have been called to London on urgent legal
business, and say that as their absence will
give them an opportunity to provide the
servants with a needed holiday, they will be
compelled to shut up the house. Sheepwell
accepts the termination of his stay philoso-
phically, but at the
last moment the man
who was to act as
caretaker turns his
job in and Sheep-
well gallantly offers
to guard the estab-
lishment in his
place. Checkmated,
the Devsons gloom-
ily set off on their
fictitious business.
After their return.
Dick and Daphne
become engaged,
Sheepwell shows
that he intends to
take up residence
with the young
couple as soon as
they are settled un-
der their own roof.
Finally Edward Dey-
son gets rid of his
rescuer by finding
him a job in Ecua-
dor. The acting left
a lot to be desired.
On Saturday next
the same group will
stage “La Malque-
rida” (“The Passion
Flower”), a Spanish
play which was seen
in Sydney a few
years ago at the
Turret Theatre.
* * *
The revue “Bright
Side Up,” presented
by Ernest Rolls at
Sydney, Cri., suggests
on its general atmo-
sphere the first slap-
stick comedies made
for the screen, in
which, since a “mov-
ing picture” was the
aim, it was thought
necessary that every
actor should be in-
cessantly and vio-
lently in motion.
The Rolls cohort of
mummers is a large
one, and each mem-
ber of it is almost
furiously industri-
ous. Most vivid im-
pressions taken away*
by this Showman
were connected with
Gus Bluett, who
seemed to pervade
the whole show; the
pleasant singing of
Jennie Benson and
Russell Calow, and the vast variety of
costumes allotted to the ballet —vast, that is,
considering it is a matter of ringing the
changes on the irreducible minimum. Some
of the topical turns are very bright and
ingenious.
¥ # #
Kate H'owarde’s “Possum Paddock” was
revived at Sydney Grand Opera House on
Saturday, Miss Howarde herself being the
producer and taking the role of the widow
Carsley. The play tells a simple story of
farming tribulations interspersed with
various love affairs, and provides plenty of
scope for characterisation. Len Buderick,
as Dad McQuade, and Connie Martyn, as his
wife, are well cast, and George Cross is con-
vincing as the wealthy neighboring selector.
Fred Argyle and Charlton Aird, as the
McQuade boys, and Poppy Adare and Babe
Scott, as girls of the district, provide most
of the laughs. Staging is adequate.
# * *
“The First Distiller,” a play in six short
acts by Tolstoy, was the exotic titbit flung
to a full house at the Kiosk, Fawkner Park,
by the Melbourne Little Theatre on a recent
Sunday evening. An emissary of Satan
Over-population problem at Melb. King’s.
Final curtain of “The Barretts of Wimpole-street.”
tempts a peasant by stealing his lunch.
Instead of uttering the oath that would earn
him eternal damnation the simple farmer
piously prays that the person who stole his
sandwich will profit thereby. The curtain
next rises on the infernal regions. Satan
is properly annoyed at his subordinate’s
failure and has him flogged. As a result
of the punishment the minor devil thinks of
a better way of vanning peasant souls for
Hades, and returns to earth to instruct
the farmer in the art of making vodka. The
demon Derrink makes short work, not only
of the peasant but of all the surrounding
population, and the play closes with general
rejoicings in Hell over this signal victory
for the forces of evil. The fact that the
temperance people failed to avail themselves
of this masterpiece during the last Prohibi-
tion campaign in Victoria suggests faulty staff
work. As a cold-tea tract it is in a class
of its own; as a work of art it is bilge.
Mrs. Coulsen Davidson produced it and the
Little Theatre players wasted considerable
talent on it.
* * v
Mr. Rolls’s new revue, “Hanky Panky.”
is like all his previous revues. The critic
“CYNARA,” AT SYDNEY SAVOY.
Left to right, top to bottom: Eric Howell (the Hon. John Tring),
Clive Coppard (Jim Warlock), Adele Quinn (Clemency
Warlock), Joy Howarth. (Doris Lea), Jo Weekes (Millie
Miles), Caroline Forsyth {Mrs. Day), and Alma Reynolds
(her daughter, Olive), Bill Firth (Mr. Boot), Flora Abbott
(Gorla Kentish) and Phillip Lewis making an after-curtain
speech.
of the “Age” announced that “Hanky Panky”
was more undressed than “Bright Side Up,”
“Venus, Ltd.,” and other productions of Mr.
Rolls’s fecund mind, and Mr. Rolls was so
grateful for the information that he has
been quoting the “Age” in his advertise-
ments ever since. This Showman, however,
was unable to perceive any difference. Nellie
Barnes is a natty little thing who dances
with unexpected grace. Nell Fleming is
bright and personable. Josephine Trix has
done nothing up to date to justify the big
type she is accorded in the programme. “A
Haven of Butterflies”' is tne best of the
ballets. The coleoptera assembled have nice
limbs, and don’t sing. Large and apprecia-
tive audiences are sampling the production.
* * ¥
The Firm has been producing “As
Husbands Go” at Brisbane His Majesty’s,
played by Ethel Morrison. Iris Darbyshire,
Harvey Adams, Campbell Copelin and Agnes
Doyle. The drunk scene went well. The
comedy was preceded by a musical mono-
logue by Dulcie Cherry. “Let Us : Be Gay”
occupies the stage this week.
Poverty Point
“Craiser”: After “The Barretts” has run
its allotted course in Melbourne Margaret
Rawlings may be seen in “Salome.” The
Lord Chamberlain is said to have raised the
long ban on Oscar Wilde’s play when he
saw Miss Rawlings in a private performance
of it.
“Shoot, Durn Yuh” : A piquant situation
in “The Barretts of Wimpole-street” is
w r here Elizabeth Barrett confesses to poet
Browning that she can’t make head nor tail
of his poem “Sordello.” It recalls Tenny-
son’s remark about that incomprehensible
fantasia. He said that he only understood
two lines of it, the first and the last, and
both were lies. The first is “Who will may
hear Sordello’s story told.” The last is
“Who would has heard Sordello's story
told.”
“L. de R.”: At least one of the English
company now doing “The Barretts of Wim-
pole-street” at Melbourne King’s appears, to
have been immersing himself in Australian
history. In one scene Edward Moulton-
Barrett makes one of his daughters repeat
after him an oath in which she declares that
she will never meet her lover, Captain Brook,
again. At one performance a ripple of
laughter from the audience interrupted a
solemn moment. Bellenden Clarke, the bril-
liant interpreter of the role, had demanded
of his daughter that she should never meet
“.Captain Cook” again.
“G.D.M.”: One full page of Melbourne
“Argus” was devoted the other day to the
examination results for Vic. of the London
College of Music. There were over 1000
names over the signature of a private organ-
ising secretary, whose address is one of the
city’s music-shops. Why is not all this
work done through the Uni. Con.? Surely
we have musicians sufficiently highly quali-
fied to examine and award diplomas to our
own young students. If we haven’t, of
what value are the musical degrees con-
ferred by Melb. and Adelaide Unis.?
What are the poets saying about Aus-
tralia? In the Three-in-One Bridge and
Easter number of The Bulletin, to be pub-
lished March 16. there will be a page of
“Songs of Our Own Land” by 20 of Aus-
tralia’s best-known verse-writers. Katharine
Susannah Prichard is among the short-story
writers in the same great number.


§ as
jfyi fflj
tf.-i
I'M-
w
The Improved
Third Class
Great comfort is
present in every detail of
Orient Service in the Third
Class. Whether in the well-
ventilated cabins, the cheerful
and restful public rooms or the
ample and varied catering, the
same high standard is maintain-
ed. From so definitely a “sea”
feature as the spacious decks,
swept by refreshing breezes and
offering every opportunity for
exercise and recreation, to so pos-
itively a “land” feature as a well-
stocked shop, the provision for
comfort is complete.
FIVE 20,000 - TONNERS,
ORONTES, ORFORD, ORAMA,
OTRANTO and ORONSAY,
CARRY THIRD CLASS
To LONDON, from £3B,
plus exchange
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Devotion,” at Sydney Plaza, suggests
that when the really good British talkie
is made an American will make it. With
a few exceptions, such as the brilliant
“Keepers of Youth,” which was banned by
some bone-lieaded official in Victoria the other
day, the products of Elstree have suffered
from the chief defects of the most amateuris i
film of recent times —Shaw’s “How He Lied
to Her Husband.” They have been wordy,
or slow in tempo , or incompetently cut, or
artificial, or all four together. The action of
“Devotion,” which is an R.K.O. version of
“A Little Flat in the Temple’ (they call
them “sets” in the Temple, by the way),
takes place in London, and most of the shots
look like London. There are only two
Americans in the cast: Ann Harding, who
plays an English girl and gets away with
it, and Robert Williams, as a New York
painter. But the dialogue is American m
its well-edited crispness, the acting is
restrained, there are no refaned voices and
few stagey situations, and there is a small
boy who behaves as naturally as any. of the
celebrated Hollywood kids. The plot is thin.
Ann Harding, finding life in her Bloomsbury
home dull, puts on a wig and spectacles and
gets a job as nurse to Leslie Howard s little
son. Howard lives in what seems to be
the Middle Temple, with an improbable
porter and wife in attendance. Of course,
he and Ann fall in love. She is cut to the
heart to find he has a wife, goes out of his
life and nearly marries the artist in Inn-
despair, and then learns that he hasn t
lived with his wife for four years, and is
divorcing her. So all ends sloppily. It
says a lot for the acting and production that
this novelettish stuff should provide first-
class entertainment. Ann Harding’s delicate
beauty isn’t disguised by her disguise, but
then the same phenomenon has been noticed
in many Rosalinds. She has charm and
a delightful voice, and the sentimentalised
part demands no more. Leslie Howard may
be a shade too young and. beautiful for a
successful Old Bailey defender, but his dic-
tion and manner are absolutely right. His
“little flat” is apparently Hollywood’s
spacious notion of the kind of place in which
members of the London junior Bar live and
toil; it has pretty well every amenity bar-
ring a swimming-pool.
* * *
The Bridge Theatre, Sydney, which is
conducted for the benefit of a group of city
hospitals, sets itself out to provide film fare
of a rather higher order of intelligence than
the syndicated palaces supply. It has pre-
sented a number of well-acted Continental
films and revived some of the better-class
American and British productions. The
current programme includes “Symphony in
Two Flats” (Gaumont-Gainsborough), a
feature of which is the acting of Ivor
Novello, Benita Hume and Australian-born
Cyril Ritchard (at present appearing on the
stage in Sydney). It has- a note of sincerity
about it which lifts it above the average.
David (Ivor Novello), a composer, marries
Leslie (Benita Hume) on a love-at-first-
sight impulse, much to the disappointment
of Leo (Cyril Ritchard), Leslie’s wealthy
admirer. David and Leslie have a rough
spin, for, although David can churn out jazz
by the mile, he has higher ambitions. Han-
dicapped by failing eyesight he is working
on a symphony for a £2OOO-prize competition
when Leo reappears on the scene. H'is sym-
phony is not the prize-winner, but _ Leo
informs him that it is, and hands him a
cheque for £2OOO. Later David learns of the
deception and rushes to the conclusion that
Leslie has been false to him. He leaves his
wife, keeps on composing symphonies and
sonatas, and finally wins renown. His re-
conciliation with his wife winds up the
story. Photography good, sound-recording
clear, music pleasing.
“Lord Richard in the Pantry” (British
Dominions), the minor attraction, concerns
a nobleman who lets his London mansion to
a charming young matron and gets a job as
a butler in his own house. What with the
chatelaine, who sees through his disguise, the
female servants who do not and want to flirt
with him, and a quartette of blackmailers and
jewel thieves, his Lordship has an adven-
turous time. Richard Cooper and Dorothy
Seacombe take the leading parts in this very
lively comedy.
* * *
“The Guilty Generation” (Columbia), at
Sydney Roxy, is “Romeo and Juliet” with
modern American trimmings. Mike Palmero
(Leo Carrillo) and Tony Ricca (Boris Kar-
loff) are rival bootleggers. Mike’s daughter,
Maria (Constance Cummings), is in love
with Tony’s son, Marco (Robert Young),
who practises as an architect under the
name of John Smith. After a street battle
in which two children are killed Palmero
decamps to Florida, entertains lavishly and
hobnobs with the society folk. Marco arrives
on the scene and meets Maria. They marry.
The Palmero-Ricca feud continues and results
in one of Ricca’s brood being sent to the grave.
Ricca responds by removing from the world
one of Palmero’s offspring. Palmero learns
of “Smith’s” identity, and although the young
man is his son-in-law orders one of his
henchmen to dispose of him. The underling
revolts and in a melee that follows Palmero
is shot by his mother. Sliakspeare’s treat-
ment of the theme is much more artistic.
The other Roxy item, “Almost a Divorce”
(British Dominions), comes as a relief,
being free of gangsters. Sydney Howard,
who contributed to the gaiety of “Tilly of
Bloomsbury,” appears as Mackintosh, a
rarely sober gentleman, who is a thorn in
the side of Angela Leighton, whose husband,
Richard, he leads astray. The Leightons
take to squabbling, and a peace-making aunt
dispatches them to a seaside pub, where she
hopes they will turn over a new leaf. Mack-
intosh, however, arrives with a vamp he
has picked up, and Richard is placed in an
embarrassing position. A stolen cigarette-
case and a prying house detective are in-
gredients in a tangle which takes a lot of
unravelling. Nelson Keys, as the husband,
and Margery Binner. as the wife, play their
parts briskly.
V
Fox has wasted some choice photographv
and a clever cast on “Charlie Chan's Chance,”
and the Regent audience wastes a lot of time
trying to discover the murderer of a Scotland
Yard man who had temporarily laid aside
his investigations of a four-year-old crime to
attend a party in N’Yark. Chan, a Chinese
detective (Warner Oland), discovers the
death-cause —gas —and the clue which finally
leads to the murderer’s arrest almost at once.
But instead of following up this line he goes
after other clues which cast suspicion on
most of the cast. Finally, of course, the
least suspected person is apprehended.
In “Chances” (First National), also at the
Regent, two English officers in the. Great
War, Jack and Tom Ingleside, are in love
with Molly Prescott. They are running neck
to neck when their mother pleads with
Jack to leave the field to Tom. Jack does
so, and links up with another maid. Molly,
who prefers Jack to Tom, is piqued at his
desertion, and in her anger promises Tom
that she will settle down with him when
the war is over. But Jack, returning to
England on leave, runs across Molly, and
goes back to the front line with a promise
that she will be his bride. He has no oppor-
tunity of informing Tom. who carries
on dreaming of the happy days that await
him. He learns the truth just before an
action in which he is very conveniently
killed. Jack's luck holds to the fade-out.
Douglas ■ Fairbanks, junior, and Anthony
Bushell fill the roles of Jack and Tom satis-
factorily, Rose Hobart meets all require-
ments as Molly, and Holmes Harbert, Mary
Forbes and Edmond Breon furnish polished
minor studies. But if Hollywood paid thou-
sands of dahlars for that scenario it must
be suffering from softening of the brain.
X * #
The action of “Strictly Dishonorable”
(Universal), screened at Sydney State,
takes place in a speakeasy and the apart-
ments above it, occupied by tippling Judge
Dempsev (Lewis Stone) and Count di Ruvo
(Paul Lukas), better known as Gus, an
Italian opera-singer and a notorious rake.
To the drinking-shop come bumptious,
quarrelsome Henry Green (George Meeker)
and his fiancee, Isabelle Parry (Sidney
ITox), who hails from Mississippi. Henry’s
bad temper lands him in a scries of
squabbles, and after a flare-up with Isabelle
lie walks out, leaving her behind, has words
Avith a cop and finishes up in the cooler.
The stranded Isabelle is befriended by the
Judge and the Count. Gus is completely
captivated by her charm, and Isabelle is no
less interested in him. Champagne is intro-
duced and the fizzy stuff goes to Isabelle’s
head. Gus looks upon her as a likely addi-
tion to his list of conquests, and as the
girl has consented to sleep on a divan in
his apartment and has already begun to
drunkenly flirt with him, her doom appears to
be certain. But Gus —why is not very clear
—retires to the Judge’s apartment to sleep,
Morning brings a chastened Henry, who is
first forgiven and then dismissed by Isabelle,
and a proposal of marriage from Gus which
is first rejected and then accepted. The
excellent acting of the principals gives some
interest to the. story, which skates on very
thin ice to its conventional conclusion.
George Meeker, as Green, plays an un-
pleasant role with vigor, and a delightful
study of an Irish policeman is given by
Sidney Toler.
* * *
Dion Titheradge wrote The. Shadow
Between,” the very talkative talkie at Syd-
ney Haymarket. Her bankrupt husband
having destroyed himself, Margaret Carey
(Kath o’Rr;gan). returns to the quiet routine
of her father’s vicarage, meets Paul Haddon
(Godfrey Tearle) and becomes Ins wife,
Haddon as nominal head is imprisoned for
fraud. Margaret gets a job as cashier.
Money is disappearing; some, marked, is
found in her coat—planted by Nell (Olga
Lindo). Without protest, even gladly, Mar-
garet goes to gaol. Freed, she is
just about to be rear rested for another of
Nell’s crimes when that lady learns of her
Great Love and confesses her guilt, also
returning to Haddon (also just liberated)
papers that clear him of his partner’s crime,
It goes a little better on the screen than
might be expected.


.r 'I
'l i
(?
s )
( i
y
w
r\
>l(5
u --ar
n
1^
For free booklet and
an approximate price,
write here. Mention
number of points to
which you require hot
water .
HOT WATER BILL FOR TWO
BATHROOMS & KITCHEN 213 PER WEEK
The three aims of a good hot-water system, viz., continuity, high temperature and
low upkeep, are solved by the
IDEAL DOMESTIC BOILER
It is compact, runs for long periods with one charging of coke, and requires no skilled
attention. The charge for fuel is small. A hotelkeeper tells us: “My Ideal Boiler
keeps the kitchen and two bathrooms supplied with hot water all the time for 2/3
per week. If I were looking after the boiler myself, I could bring the bill down to
1/6 per week.”
Thousands of installations throughout Australia in homes, hotels, clubs, colleges,
hospitals, factories and poultry farms, etc.
John Danks & Son Pty., Ltd.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
391-403 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
<3
Made by the National
Radiator Co., Hull,
England, and distributed
by DANES.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Erua”: When Henare offered to sell me
his horse I turned the deal down firmly.
But Henare was insistent. He assured me
that a finer creature never lived than his
bony steed and that it had an amazing
repertoire of tricks, acquiring, without
teaching, a new one each day. I finally
succumbed to Henare’s eloquence, and the
horse was put in my paddock. I found him
dead there next morning. Henare was un-
perturbed when I told him. “Werra,” he
said, “tat te kind of horse he is! I
terra you he learn te new trick every day.”
* * * *
“Hugh G.”: I plodded wearily along the
Road that leads to Nowhere, cursing alter-
nately the bundle of woe upon my back and
muddle-headed politicians whom I believed
to have put it there, when a bend in the
dusty road brought into view a farmhouse
and, draping a gatepost, the figure of a
man. I drew abreast, and, anticipating a
few minutes’ yarn, grounded my swag and
sat thereon. “G’day,” says I; “how T ’s
things?” by w r ay of introduction. His reply
v r as a hostile “Huh !”• Undaunted, I passed
the usual remarks about work—men on the
track, etc. Slowly he extracted the pipe
from his mouth, and pointing it at me with
Rhadamanthine severity, he pronounced the
following opinion : “Yous blokes deserve ter
be on the track orl yer lives. When yer in
work y’ live like lords. Bacon ’n’ eggs for
breakfast. Butter on yer bread. Why,” he
added indignantly, “/ can’t afford that!” I
was about to reply when the snorting of
pigs assailed my ear, and at this stage
Rliadamanthus strode off, muttering as he
disappeared into the dairy something about
it being cow-time. Pondering deeply on such
phrases as “supply and demand,” I shoul-
dered my swag;, and, shaking my head per-
plexedly, plodded on.
* * *
.“Machete”: lie that swimming horse (B.
17/2/’32). Years ago a nag just harnessed
into a light buggy at the old Bowen Bridge
ground in Brisbane, after a cricket match,
took fright and bolted. The buggy was soon
reduced to matchwood, but with his harness
intact and the reins trailing behind, the
nag went on past the Exhibition and down
Brunswick-street to the New Farm ferry,
some three miles at least. Arrived at the
river, he dived in, and, turning downstream,
swam another mile to the house of his
owner on the opposite bank. There he was
found later, cheerfully grazing, with not a
scar on him or a strap broken. It was
well on in the afternoon when he bolted
and the streets on his way home were full
of traffic, yet no one was injured. Further,
when he was in the river, two inter-State
steamers passed down on their w 7 ay up and
EVERY SATURDAY.
DAD: “It says here that there’s a pub in Sydney with a bath in every room.”
DAVE: “That’ll be one of those week-enders, I expect, Dad.”
down the coast, but he rode their wash
without trouble. I recall it all so clearly,
since both horse and buggy were my father’?
property, and lie was quite stuffy about the
happening. #
“Middle Passage”: That story of the
blackbirder who dropped the human evidence
overboard, attached to his anchor, when he was
boarded for
search (B.
17/2/’32) re-
calls a similar
happening re-
corded in the
reports of the
Royal Commis-
sion of a hun-
dred years or so
ago which led to
the abolition of
the slave trade.
One of the fast
cruisers which
patro lied the
Bight of Benin
—they always
cruised down
wind at night,
for though it
lost them the
weather gauge
they could de-
tect a slaver
slipping out in
the dark by the
smell boarded
an obvious
slaver straight
out from Liver-
pool, then shar-
ing with Bristol
a monopoly of
the trade. No
sign of irons,
cooking pots, or
any evidence
could be found ;
not even a
native in the
crew that
would h a V, e
afforded the
man-o’-war an
excuse to seize
her. Some time
after one of her
crew, captured
on another ship,
told what hap-
pen e d. The
skipper had had
his young
native wife on
board when hailed. As the boarding party
was coming up the side he had her tied to
the kedge and dropped over the stern, “thus
destroying,” as the report comments, “not
only the evidence against him, but his
unborn child.”
* * * *
“R.J.R.”: H'enry Lawson had the repu-
tation of being a handy man. but there were
times when his zeal outran his judgment.
He joined poet E. J. Brady and his wife at
their camp, Mallacoota (Vic.), in 1909, and
discovered that the ranch lacked a bush
broom. He set to work at once to make
one, using brushwood and a stout sapling.
It took him a whole day to collect the
materials and piece them strongly together,
and at evening he proudly presented his
handiwork to Mrs. Brady. The lady
thanked him, and then she discovered, much
to Lawson’s amazement, that she couldn’t
even lift it, let alone use it! Henry’s master-
piece was a regular elephant of brooms,
the manufacturer being the only one in the
camp possessed of enough strength, to wield
it. The broom is still extant, a prized relic.
* * * *
“Jackaburra”: He came into the shop and
said he wanted to re-charge his cattle-
dip—what kind could we recommend? We
recommended our own brand —how much
would he be requiring? Well, he didn’t
know, but we could easy calculate it. Oh
yes, no trouble at all—what were the dimen-
sions of the dip? That he couldn’t say, either;
it was about so long and about so wide and
so deep. Ah, yes! Did he intend to- empty it
right out and then recharge it, or would ho
just add more water and enough dip to
bring it to the right strength? If so, what
was the present strength? No doubt he had
tested it before coming down. “No, I don’t
know that either’,” he came back. “All I
know is that it ain’t strong enough as it is,
because the blanky frogs are swimmin’ about
in it.”
* * * *
“Sylvia” : Nobody knows for certain how
long a M.L. kauri-tree can live or how large
it can grow. The so-called “annular rings”
are not a guide in this case, as the kauri
disregards the calendar. All the largest
specimens in the Shivery Isles have been
destroyed by fire. There is, however, a tree
in the Waipona State Forest in the North
Island —the kauri doesn’t grow south of Cook
Strait —which gives some idea of what old
age brings to this monarch of the M.L.
bushlands. It isn’t particularly tall, but
its trunk has a girth of 62ft., and the first
of its spreading boughs juts out 40ft. above
the ground. The spread of the giant branches
covers a circle 200 ft. in diameter, and each
bough is enormously thick. The kauri, unlike
the Westralian karri, with which it is some-
times confused, produces a soft light timber,
almost white, of a most beautifully fine, even
HE WOULDN’T MISS IT.
THE NEW LODGER: “Yer old man’s faointed an’ there’s no brandy — wot’ll
I do?”
LONG-SUFFERING WIFE: “Promise ’im some!”
grain and is greatly valued by boatbuilders
for its durable qualities. In earlier times it
was largely used for building, but it is now
so expensive that it is very sparingly speci-
fied for that purpose. The Maoris say that
a really respectable kauri takes at least SUU
years to grow, which explains why the com-
mercial forestry cos. leave it alone.
* * * *
M w fir it s ws
n^sfandfwLrfLcks'ofa“'kind”-
n 0 uncommon thing for flighting birds to
j t|£
show white and glistening, and even swanh
have been recorded as falling victims to thi
game delusion The Sydney story is
marred by the editorial comment that the
duck’s captor and his family would sup on
“duck and green peas.” The man who would
eat these vegetables with a wild duck is a
gastronomic heretic. The proper accompani-
ment j s a lettuce salad with a sauce, chiefly
compounded of gravy made from the duck’s
-juices a nd port.
'** * *
“Retired Whaler”: There is no doubt the
coun t r y i s going to the demnition bow-wows.
saw a newspaper illustration the other day
depicting a ‘prospector shifting camp. The
gentleman in question wore up-to-date
shorts, with socks neatly rolled down to
the tops of his sandshoes. But his kit
was the greatest shock. In the place of
the time-honored swag was one of these
“rucksacks” affected by the male and female
youth of the city on their weekly “hikings”
to the outer suburbs. Balanced on the top
of that was a neat military kitbag. There
was no sign of bluey, or even a billy, while
tucker-bags were also absent, and the fellow
actually carried a walking-stick! It was
enough to make the bones of Tommy the
Jockey, Jimmy the Swallower, There and
Back Billy, and many another King of the
Wallaby rattle in their scattered out-back
sepulchres.
THE WAGES MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Well, spare me days, I didn’t think that you
would fall for that!
It’s plain to see that you ain’t fit to knock
round on your pat.
He told you that, tlie darned old skite, and
you fell for his lies?
Well, you just listen here a while and let
me put you wise.
He knows a place where he is sure that
there’s a lot of gold,
And you’re the first (that’s good, my oath!)
that he has ever told.
He’s mighty good at telling tales.; his kind
give me the hump.
Now, listen: he’s a wages man, and always
was, you chump!
That’s Avhat he was, a wages man; he never
chased the ’weight.
He’d hear the whistle blow, and run for
fear that he’d be late.
Though you might think, to hear him talk,
he helped to blaze the track,
The only pad ho ever made was to the pub
and back.
By gum, I’d like to see him try to put
that over me!
But he’s a bit too shrewd for that; he
knows how it would be.
Suppose he’d happened on a place where
he could make his pile,
D’you think he’d be content to work for
wages all the while ?
He knows a place that ain’t been tried,
except, of course, by him !
No, no; you hop in on your own and either
sink or swim.
It’s my advice tb anyone to hop in when
he can.
He knows a place (that’s good, my oath !),
and him a ivages man !
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Gompany
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
TAKE STOCK
Isn’t a periodical stocktaking of your private income and
expenditure as necessary to your success as the similar action
you regard as imperative in your business?
The difference between your personal expenses and your
income is your personal profit, and calls for the same wise
planning as must be given to a business.
Take stock now, thus early in the year, of your assets and
income, and of your certain and possible expenses. It will
enable you to spend wisely as well as to save wisely, and the
result should be a healthy Savings Bank balance.
(Übmmonwcaltb Savings JBanli of Bustralia
(Guaranteed by the Comvionwealth Government.)
SPECIAL SALE OFFER
in famous
“MOSGIEL” RUGS
For the duration of our
genuine half-yearly Clear-
ance Sale the world-famous
’‘Mosgiel” Rugs have been
heavily reduced in price.
Guaranteed Pure Merino
Wool in distinctive designs
and colorings.
Order to-day.
Were 168/- Now 126/-
Were 110/- Now 84/-
Were 95/- Now 69/6
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
“Verax”: I haven’t much faith in Las-
seter’s reef—l knew Lasseter. My first
acquaintance with him was about 16 years
ago when he was irrigation-farming on a
10-acre lease at Tabulam (N.S.W.). Just
before that fie had been prospecting on the
Upper Clarence. He claimed to be a Vic-
torian by birth, but had spent many years
in the U.S.A. He used to write for a local
newspaper, one of his contributions being
a bitter denunciation of the war, in verse.
Then he sold out liis lease and enlisted.
Writing to me from Gallipoli, he told me
he had invented a device to make battle-
ships torpedo-proof, but the naval authori-
ties were not impressed by it. Next I
heard of him was in 1919, when he took
out a Commonwealth patent for “improve-
ments in and connected with the treatment
of wheat for storage or transport.” He
tried to form a company to exploit this
idea, and also applied for Government sub-
sidies, but it all came to nothing. In the
course of years of more or less regular cor-
respondence with Lasseter I gathered that
THE PARTING OF THE WAYS.
TRAFFIC CONSTABLE: “What do you people want —a separation?”
he was greatly interested in Centralia,
though he did not say he had been there.
His principal preoccupation was inventions.
For a while he was employed on Sydney
Harbor Bridge. He wanted to revolutionise
construction methods, but got the sack
instead. He claimed that two of his ideas
—a salvaging scheme and an improved form
of bullet —had been stolen and others had
made fortunes out of them. In short, he
was more or less of a crank —very aggressive,
very self-opinionated, and full of large hopeful
visions. Quite in keeping with the character
of the man, as I knew him, is the story
of his quarrel with Johns, the dingo-shooter,
in the desert; their return to Ilbilba and
the dispatch of Johns to Alice Springs,
while Lasseter went back to find his reef,
burying bottles under the ashes of his camp-
fires so that his route might not be followed.
The yarn is hardly credible, but Lasseter
wasn’t a very reasonable being. I fear
his reef was only one of the many illusions
and delusions that spattered his career. By
the way, when I knew him, he signed him-
self Lewis Hubert Lasseter. Records of
liis Centralian expedition give his name as
Lewis Harold Bell Lasseter. In matters
like that he was not a stickler for exacti-
tude.
“Hr. Nil”: I was looking down at two
small craters —upcast shafts of a nest of
green-head ants of a rather small variety—
when it occurred to me to block one of
them and see what would happen. I dropped
a small pebble of limestone, smooth and
round, into the neck of one crater. It
descended about half an inch and became
jambed, leaving space for single ants to
emerge. There was an immediate rally
to remove the obstruction. One after
another, the workers went at it, head down-
wards, and attempted what appeared to be
the impossible task of gripping the stone
in their mandibles and heaving it out of
the hole. For some time none appeared
able to move it. Then, to my astonish-
ment, one “greenie” got a hold of it in
his forceps, by some projection I could
not perceive, and, after several backward
and upward struggles, pulled the pebble out
and up and over the bank. He continued
hauling until he had taken it up the vertical
side of the wooden edging, about two inches
high, that bounded one side of the crater.
He then pitched it away some distance from
the crater and calmly returned to his job
of carrying up spoil. I recovered the small
stone and also captured five of the ants,
and, having chloroformed the.insects, I care-
fully weighed both' them, and the pebble.
The stone went five grains, the ants two
and a half. The equivalent in man-power
would be for a 10-stone athlete to pull a
boulder weighing up a mostly ver-
tical height of over 100 feet.
»!* »!* ?!* $
“Avon”: There was a jollification at the
Shaw Savill offices in London the other
day to celebrate Maoriland’s frozen meat
jubilee. It is pretty safe to assume that in
the proceedings the names of Bell and Cole-
man were not mentioned, but they deserve
a lot -of the credit. The result of their
researches was the Bell-Coleman compressed-
air refrigerator, the principle of which is
very simple. If you compress air it gets
hot. Cool it while it is compressed, and
then ease off the pressure to normal, and
you create intense cold —about 70deg.
below the Fahrenheit zero. The Shaw Savill
steamer Dunedin, equipped with a machine
on this system, carried 5000 carcases of
mutton from Port Chalmers to London in
1882 with almost complete success, and the
Australasian frozen-meat trade, inaugurated
in 1881 by mutton and beef shipments from
Australia, only one-third of which arrived
in good condition, never looked back. In
1890 Maoriland sent to the U.K 88,495 cwt.
of beef and Slo,4oocwt. of mutton and lamb,
THE SPOT ON THE INNINGS.
“That was a fine innin’s, William.”
“’Ess, Cap’n. But ’e gaved a chance, only lucky for ’e there wadden nobody theere
to take it.”
Australia’s quota being 21,426 cwt. of beef
and 402,000 cwt. of mutton and lamb. Tn
1930 M.L. exported 328,474 cwt. of beef and
3,035,548 cwt. of mutton and lamb. Aus-
tralia got away 1,400,000 cwt. of beef and
807,240 cwt. of mutton and lamb.
Jjc * * *
“Mulyan”: Some queer meals have been
sampled in the bush, but a newchum jack-
eroo tackled the rummiest. He had been
dropped at the Katherine, where a hack and
packhorse awaited him. There w r as also an
order at the pub for a demijohn of whisky
and one of rum, which he had to take with
him. Bung set him going, instructing him
that his way followed the course of the
telegraph line right out. The road, however,
crossed and recrossed it, touching at water-
holes. The jackcroo stuck rigidly to the
line till thirst began to worry him. Then
in desperation, he broached the spirits. Being
a teetotaller, he didn’t care to take whisky
neat, and thought it would be an
improvement if he made tea with it.
So he boiled a quart; and having
nothing to eat but plenty of flour in
the pack, he mixed up a few johnny-
cakes with rum. Then he sat down to
dinner. What happened afterwards
he couldn’t recollect. When discovered next
day by a youth who was horse-hunting from
Maud Creek, he had lost everything but one
demijohn—wffiich was empty.
* if * :!=
“Oollarinna”: Centralia has broken all
heat records by averaging at Oodnadatta a
shade temperature of 111.5 for January.
Fifty-one days from December 15 averaged
110, and on two occasions the thermometer
registered 122. The youngsters, hardy
though they are, were glad when school
hours were cut down to three—7.3o to 10.30
a.m. We had 125 points of rain early in
February, but King Drought still hovers on
the horizon. During 1931 only 3in. of rain
fell, yet we had 24 “wet” days. The birds
have been the greatest sufferers from the
heat. At Abminga siding, on the Alice
Springs railway-line, thousands lie dead
around the water-tanks. From all the
stations comes the same report; the manager
of one, 150 miles west of Oodnadatta had
to come... to town for bird-netting to cover
his wells and enable him to pump, the water.
Not content with drinking from the troughs,
the birds fell into the wells in such num-
bers that the pumps were choked with them.
Overpowered by the heat, they were quite
fearless, and one might catch them anywhere
they fell and carry them to a damp, shady
spot until they revived. Practically every
bushman is a bird-lover, a nd everywhere are
placed tanks and troughs of water for their
feathered friends. The animals also have
perished in hundreds—under the shade ot
gidya and myrtle bush are the bodies of
emus and kangaroos which, seeking the
shade, have died from exhaustion where they
lajr - ,
“Waranbini”: The carpet-snake is a use-
ful reptile in keeping down rats and mice,
and many country people encourage it to
remain in sheds and barns for that purpose.
It is just as likely, however,_ to swallow the
pup or the kitten as anything else, and it
is rot a safe pet on . premises where there
is a young baby. In the boom days of the
Palmer River (Q.) diggings, the wife of an
Italian digger left her infant asleep in a
cradle in a shady spot outside the residence.
When she went to look at it some time later
the cradle was empty. A search party that
was quickly mustered looked for human
tracks, thinking that the baby had been
stolen, until one discovered a huge carpet-
snake 'with a big bulge in the middle. The
bulge was the missing infant.
*** ' * '
“Bur”: Boulia (n.-w. Q.) is famous for
its terrific sandstorms. One arrived like a
solid wall while I was in town for the mail.
In a few minutes you could not see across
the street. I had to get home, as the Burke
River must be crossed, and it had looked
like rain before the dust arrived. Got home
after missing the road several times, not
being able to see more than six feet beyond
the radiator. Decided to take the cylinder-
top off next day, as it had inhaled so much
sand, and I knew the thing wanted decarbon-
ising. To my astonishment I found that the
sand drawn through the carburetter had
scoured the pistons and top as clean as new.
Removed the valves to grind them and found
that each had been polished and was a per-
fect gas-tight joint.
“Mako”: Although Mt., Cook (12,349 ft.)
is the tallest Maoriland peak, it is not the
most difficult to climb. Fitzgerald, the
famous mountaineer, who brought a Swiss
guide with him, placed the mighty Sefton
(10,350 ft.) first.among the dangerous peaks
he had assailed, and latter-day alpinists in
M.L. give the palm for difficulty to Mt.
Tutoko, in the Darran Range (9691 ft.),
which has just been successfully climbed by
three,young .residents of Gore. The late Sam
Turner, who claimed to have made the only
lone • ascent of Mt. Cook, tried Tutoko five
times before he was piloted up by guide
Peter Graham. Turner put Tutoko ahead
of Everest for difficulty; but of course he
hadn’t climbed Everest.
IN PLOVER-LAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
March! And summer’s iron grip slackens on
our plains and hills.
March across the sea, with smiles of spring
to banish winter’s frowns.
March with hedgerows primrose-decked,
March that brings the daffodils,
March when mating plovers wheel o el-
and o’er the breezy downs.
Come and go the centuries that change and
man- the countryside ; ...
Towns from tiny hamlets grow, cities rise
from straggling towns.
Other birds seek other haunts, but ever
constant they abide,
Plovers circling to and fro about the bare
and wind-swept downs.
Were they there before Stonehenge, when
over maze of oak and yew
Here and there but faintly rose the
scattered uplands’ grassy crowns —
Islets in a forest sea —plovers nesting two
by two
With their ceaseless, plaintive note, plovers
hovering o’er the downs?
March that heralds autumn here, March that
ushers in the spring
Oversea, with gleams of green and glints
of gold to light the browns.
March when Nature wakes from sleep, and
from dawn to evening
Mating plovers wheel and cry o’er a
hundred changeless downs.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people, of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
w
I
Vi
D.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Nestor . . 14,500 tons, March 5
+Ceramic . . 18,500 ~ March 15
*Ulysses . . 14,500 „ April 23
fEuripides . . 15,000 ~ May 3
•First class only. fFirst and third class.
1 Cabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, WattS Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
SMOKE-OH!
“Silas Young....is worth a million dollars.”
— Cable.
Silas is golden, evidently.
* *
“Everything passible must be done to end Mr.
Lang’s reckless career.” — “Herald.”
Well, N.S.W. taxpayers are “doing” their
best.
“Most Governments have some redeeming points.”
— “Age.”
Points, yes, but they leave the redeeming
to future generations.
* *
“Mrs. Field returned from Palm Beach wearing
a smile.” —“Sunday Sun.” ,
She was probably reserving her other cos-
tumes for her court appearances.
* *
“Feast Follows Prayer-meeting for Unemployed.”
They came to pray but remained to scoff.
*
“Dance in Prison.”
A quad-rille, doubtless.
THE OTHER WAY OF PUTTING IT.
“An! ’e said time stands still when he gazes into my eyes.”
“Well, I call that a real nice way of sayin’ your face would
stop a clock!”
“Wife’s Face Cause of Quarrel.”
Anyway, it must have been soon made up.
CURTAIN.
You meet her and make overtures,
Dreaming of' music, love and laughter;
The overtures are sweet, hut you
Have got to face the music, after.
* *
“Mrs. will shortly joint her husband in
Singapore.” —Sydney paper.
Some wives cut their husbands to pieces
in other ways.
FRUSTRATION.
A shriek stabbed the night. There was a
rush of people to the spot from which it
had come, and when the hurry of events had
sorted itself out the murderer was seen to
be firmly held by two policemen, whilst a
third knelt over the lifeless form of a woman.
“You killed her!” said one of the police-
men. “Who is she?”
“I -don’t know. I never saw her before.”
“What? Then why”
The murderer drew himself up proudly.
“Take me away—I confess all!” he said.
“•I am guilty of the first murder committed
on this bridge!”
As they were marching him off there was
another shriek, followed by a splash.
“What’s that?” the murderer asked.
“Somebody has committed suicide ! Thrown
himself from the bridge!”
The murderer’s pride vanished. He looked
a broken man.
“Gosh! And I might have made a double
first of it!” he groaned.
* *
“The sailors were all drunk and playing poker.”
Jack-potted.
* *
THEY BROADCAST PARLIAMENT.
“2KY speaking. Broadcasting from the
Legislative Assembly. The Premier is just
making his speech on the first reading of the
Fruit-machine and Two-up Legalisation Bill.
AVe will now switch over to the microphone
near the Speaker and you will hear the
actual debate in progress. There you are.”
“ of the principles of the bill which....
liar!.... Garn, put your hat on, you’re in
the nude north of the c011ar.... ignorant
gutter-pup!... .and Empire unity must at
all costs be. preserv... .he was dead, I tell
yer. .. .disgraceful repudiation and unprin-
cipled .... come on down to the bar, J0e....
mean an appreciable increase in consoli-
dated rev was on Shortwind at Harold
Park last night and the cow didn’t. .. .
minions of bloated slave-sweating capital-
ists.... AVliat are you maggin’ about? You
were shot yourself last.... bill upholds the
best traditions of a free democ... .crawl into
your kennel like any other mong....bun-
kered at the.. . .Trades-llall basher gang
dominance... .whattid you get out of the
tin hares?... .honorable agreements... .that
one about the barmaid and the commer-
cial... .constitutional difficulties may arise
which.... order !. ... shut up, Bugwhiskers !
.... are several clauses which Sergeant,
remove”....
* *
THE PRECEPTOR.
Ours is a Bohemian set, and according to
custom I entered Iris’s flat without knocking,
nearly falling over a
broom and a bucket
of water. There was
a litter of dishes on
the sink that Iris
never seems to scrub ;
something boiled over
on the stove and the
fat of months sizzled
on it. Remnants of
breakfast reposed on
a table covered with
torn newspapers.
Iris has her good
points, but she is a
careless housekeeper.
I got a fleeting
glance of a chaotic
bedroom as I mean-
dered into the sit-
ting-room, which
looked as if an earth-
quake had happened
in it. This effect was
emphasised by dusty
pictures, twisted
awry on the walls.
Iris was seated at a
table behind a barri-
cade of misplaced
furniture.
“Busy?” I sug-
gested.
“Rather!” she
said. “I’m writing an article, ‘Hints on
Keeping the Home Tidy,’ for the ‘Mothers’
Magazine.’ ”
* *
“For method and tidiness it is hard to beat a
Scotchman.”
He even takes his whisky neat.
* *
The soup was, more or less, a viscid mire,
A fly had suffocated in my wine,
My steal' teas tougher than a motor-tyre,
The chips resembled splintered chunks of
pine.
But when I soyght to ventilate my ire.
The manager had just gone out to dine.
They are referred to as War Doubts since
the Lang plan arrived.
* *
From the Launceston “Examiner” (Tas.) :
Benconsfield.—A weatherboard stable containing
a motor spray-pump, harness, a ton of hay, eight
bags of chaff, and sundries, valued at £260, was
destroyed by Are at Beaconsfield about 2.15 a.m.
on Thursday. The building was insured in the
Tasmanian Government Insurance Office for £l5O.
and the contents for £45. The property belonged
to Mr. B. D. Room, of Deviot.
Mrs. Triptree and Messrs. Burr and Floyd supplied
the music, and Mr. K. Floyd was M.C.
And if the comic artists can be believed, the
music was, of course, played on jew’s-harps.
TTit inriWTAPY EV A ATTN VTTON
ELkMLJN lAM LAAMIJNAiIW.
(For candidates in State elections.) '
(1) While you are on the hustings a ripe
egg lands on your left ear, filling that organ
St fewS4lal. 0 ™x i, S , ample S “““ritupwl-
tive adjectives commencing with the letter
B that you would employ in handling the
situation Also define your attitude to (a)
egg- (b) marksman (if seen) ; (c) ribaldry
of crowd.
(2) An interjector asks a question about
SIX APPEAL.
bimetallism, of which you know nothing.
Would you consider it good tactics to call
upon the police to eject him?
(3) At the declaration of the poll, follow-
ing a campaign in which personal accusa-
tions and innuendoes have been freely in-
dulged in, you come face to face with your
opponent. Draft the usual feulogy, in which
you stress the “scrupulous fairness and fine
sense of sportsmanship” of your rival.
(4) Submit a graph showing the ratio of
promises to speeches, allowing 17 lies to the
square inch.
(5) Write a full note on the value of
optimism in politics, and say in this regard
whether you deem it prudent to purchase a
heavy gold albert for your gold pass before
the absent votes and preferences have been
counted.
(6i On polling day you observe that con-
stituents use your cars to come to the
booths, and then get their “how-to-vote”
tickets from your opponent’s table. Discuss
this election phenomenon, keeping in mind
that the car bill will increase your over-
draft by approximately £5O.
* *
“Given the legislation required, the N.S.W. Police
Chief says that the suppression of gunmen would
be easy."
Mere Child’s play, in fact.
* *
DIARY OF A PLUMBER WHO TELLS.
Wednesday.—-Received urgent call to mend
gas leak at Mrs. McGoogan’s. Went there
but found I had forgotten footprints. Sent
boy back for them. Whilst waiting fixed
washer on tap (at lady’s re-
quest), also “fixed” S trap
(not at lady’s request). That
will be another job for me. I’ll
“discover” it before leaving.
Boy arrived back just on five
o’clock. Advised Mrs. Mc-
Googan not to light matches
indoors, also to cook in back
yard until to-morrow.
Thursday.—Arrived early
on job, but found boy had
brought 9in. footprints. Use-
less. Sent him back for I2in.
pair. I must say Mrs. Mc-
Gopgan has comfortable lounge-
chairs. Ideal for reading and
dozing. Slight accident dur-
ing morning. Inadvertently
lit pipe somewhat close to gas
leak and blew wall down.
Mrs. McGoogan fainted, but
otherwise no harm done. In
fact, it means job for friend
Jones, and a little commis-
sion for self. Boy arrived
back 4.55 p.m., and had just
got grip on pipe by 5 p.m.
Left tools on job.
Friday.—Located leak. Pipe
must be rotten, or I may have
tapped a bit too hard with the
21b. hammer. Anyway there
are now so many leaks that
it will mean a new job.
Had an accident while up manhole. Put
boot through plaster ceiling of dining-room,
scratching boots. Must not forget to include
price of new pair in bill. Looks like a job
for Murphy. Great fellow, Murphy!
“House parties from London who indulge in
gambling and drunkenness have spoilt the dignified
tradition of many stately English county houses.”
Evil communications corrupt good manors,
THE FORGETFUL POTE TO HIS GIRL,
When the what-d you-call-it whistles in
the rumty-tumty tree and the thing-me-
bobs are wheeling in the blue, and the pallid
shade of Siphon (is it Siphon?) flickers
f ree > then, Maud (or are you Belle?), I long
for yew. The tendrils of the wh'at’s-this
climb the oozle-
foozle’s bole, the
you-know-who re-
sumes its vernal
biz., and your
name, my peach of
Darlinghurst, re-
echoes in my soul,
though I * eau’t
think, at the
moment, what it is.
The shining
don’t - remember - it
is sure to fade
away. The golden
you - know - what-I-
mean will pass.
Shall we let the
blessed rub-a-dub
evanish with the
day? Are you, am
I, is each of us an
ass? The mdss.
whose name eludes
me, has its dwell-
ing in the grot.
The birds I can-
not classify still
sing. What I
mean to say is,
Who’sit, that you please me quite a lot- I
pine for you—and all that kind of thing.
Percy Pawnticket.
HEALTH IS WEALTH.
Unquaeieied Success oe Another “Daily
Blah” Special Feature.
Although, metaphorically speaking, hardly
out of its swaddling clothes, the latest
“Blah” feature, our “Health Is Wealth
Department, has already proved a boon to
our countless readers. Inquiries pour in day
and night, and thousands of letters ot
thanks have been received from grateful
scribes who have been supplied with free
advice on their health problems, particu-
larly in regard to the treatment of bullet
and razor wounds, lysol poisoning and
metho-spirit d.t.’s. Send the coupon, together
with your problem, to be dealt with by
experts.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“Worried” (Darlinghurst) : Evidently the
condition of your husband was caused by the blow
from the baton. Continue the “snow” treatment, and
try to keep him away from police stations
Slashed (Woolloomooloo) : The condition of the
wound is due to your assailant having used a
dirty razor —probably the one he usually shaves with
Continue washing, however distasteful. No, “Slashed,”
it would not be ethical to retaliate by treating
your own blade with spirits of salts. In any case,
it is probably more septic as it is—that is, if you
have been using it once a week, as usual Vitamine
A: Lack of vegetables is probably the cause. Being
on the dole, you probably find it impracticable to
buy greens, owing to the high cost of lottery tickets,
THE PHILOSOPHER SPEAKS.
“The mailman says he put a letter in our post-box
yestiddy, but no one seen it.”
u lt don’t matter. Wait till y’ get into the township,
an’ ask the postmistress what was in it.”
short odds on winners and the exorbitant cost of
the daily dozen glasses. It certainly is degrading
for a free-born Aussie to have to grow his own
vegetables, but whilst we admire your pride we
would say “Pocket it temporarily, and put that
priceless possession, Health, before all.”
A BRIDGE SONNET
(With apologies to Longfellow).
Freeman (cum Bradfield) huilt me. Duly
scrolled
You’ll find their claims. I plant my feet
of stone
Astride your harhor, and beneath me prone
Its ebb and flow complacently behold.
Some half a dozen years away have rolled
Since I was put in hand. I stand alone
In Bridgedom, as is fitting, you must own,
Considering I cost ten millions cold.
I might have been constructed long ago
But for a certain insufficiency
Of enterprise and scarcity of pelf.
Still, here I am at last, a glorious show.
Yet when I hear that Lang will open me,
I feel I’d like to tumble off myself!


Your EASTER Suit
mm
1
A
'4-"
—from MURDOCH’S
Was 70/- now .
ë
I
All Sydney is agog for the greatest Easter ever
known! Now’s the time to order your outfit
to participate in the revels. Murdoch’s have
special quality Blue Serge Sac Suits for Men,
scientifically graded to your figure.
A perfect Ready for Service Suit,
by mail, for
57 lb
IN TWEEDS
Men’s dressy Australian Tweed
Sac Suits. Mid or dark grey
shades. Ready to
put on. Sizes 3 to 7.
49/*
SPORTS SUITS
Men’s fancy Tweed Sports
Suits. An ever handy outfit.
Ready for immediate
Use. Formerly 35/-.
NOW
30/9
Men’s Flannel Sports Trousers,
12/6, 15/6, 17/6, 21/-.
IN WORSTEDS
Serviceable Grey shade Worsted,
ready to put on, Sac Suits
for Men. By
mediate mail for
im-
55/-
BLAZERS
Men’s Flannel Blazers. Maroon,
Royal, Brown or Green Shades.
Braided edges.
MURDOCH’S Special
Price
Zl/-
Men’s Cream Gabardine Trou-
sers, 13/6, 16/6, 21/-, 30/-.
80-PAGE CATALOGUE FREE!
Write to desk “R.” Murdoch's , Ltd., and secure a
copy of the new 80-page Winter Catalogue. Posted
free on request.
We pay freight.
Address all communications to Desk “R.”
If BE IN SYDNEY MARCH 19th
OPENING OF HARBOUR BRIDGE
BRITAIN —MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman”—BJ hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAY BEST OS
t( Silver Edge,”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
m
m
to
w
\
SEAL or GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTLI
BOTTLED & GUARANTEED
PURE BY THE TRENCH
GOVERNMENT
ETAT MEANS
"STATE vii
OWNED BY THE
ē
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
cicity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters,is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS is the
NAME or THE SPRING
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
t(she following statement defies contradiction}
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what you should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTIN€
VICHY WATER,
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
I complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs, restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the -eorld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.
Gxamme the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes!.
Sole Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, i'.s.ff,
STATE
D r STRIBUTORS
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
mm
mm
. <
f '
AMERICA
The World Between Two Seas
castanets of Old Spain still
clack in California . . . San
Francisco’s Chinatown holds the
scented breath of the Orient ... in
New Orleans Bouillabaisse is served
with a Gallic accent . . . northern
soil is tilled by scions of Viking
forebears . . . while over New Eng-
land’s hedgerows linger the tradi-
tions of Old England.
Diverse origins, yet a united people.
Diverse scenic marvels, united in
beauty.
Providing the fullest opportunity to
see all the diverse aspects of Amer-
ica is the surpassing service of her
railways. Frequent trains in every
direction—comfort assured by the
most modern appointments—cour-
teous, personal attention that facili-
tates every arrangement. You may
cover an extensive itinerary at sur-
prisingly low cost.
Plan your visit to England to include
America, reached on swift Matson
liners via New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa
and Hawaii to San Francisco. A
free illustrated booklet will gladly
be sent tipon request.
Write to Dept. Al.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL AND
INFORMATION BUREAU
12 Bridge St., Sydney. Tel. B 7981-3
Where moun-
tain climbers
are in their,
glory.
COMING
OVERSEAS EVENTS
NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE
CONVENTION
Honolulu . . . May 4 to 6, 1932
EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
Dublin, Ireland, June 23 to 26,
1932
Book via MATSON for the ut-
most in travel comfort, pleasure
and convenience.
Betow: New Year's Day cele-
bration in San Francisco's
Chinatown—like a scene in old
Peiping.
m
m
MS


Amazing New Record of
101.8
miles per gallon
On C.O.R No. i Petrol
by Mr. D. Wright in an Austin 7
The highest mileage ever obtained
in competition driving in Victoria
AT the Victorian Junior Car Club’s Petrol
Consumption Test on 21st February,
competitors were given one gallon of
motor spirit and travelled the route from Mel-
bourne to Geelong and return. Mr. D. Wright,
in his Austin 7, performed the remarkable feat
of driving 101.8 miles under strictly checked
official conditions, and on one gallon of
absolutely stahdard quality C.O.R No. 1 Petrol
as supplied through kerbside pumps every-
where . . . This smashes decisively the
previous Victorian record of 83 miles per
gallon, established in 1929, also on C.O.R.
After completing the route from Melbourne to
Geelong (43 miles) and return, Mr. Wright
had then to travel some 15 miles extra before his
tank ran dry . . . Remember this when you’re
looking for real economy from your car.
Remember, too, that C.O.R is as remarkable
for its power, speed and clean-burning
qualities as it is for mileage.
This achievement is surely conclusive evidence
that you have everything to gain by using
C.O.R. Next time you fill your petrol tank,
be sure and fill at the C.O.R pump.
Victorian
Junior Car Club
Petrol Consumption
Test . . 21/2/32
Official C.O.R Results
Ist—D. Wright ... Austin 7
101.8 m.p.g.
2nd—T. Davey ... Austin 7
84.8 m.p.g.
3rd —L. Drill ... Austin 7
77.2 m.p.g.
4th —M. Kershaw, Austin 7
76.4 m.p.g.
5th —C. May ... Austin 7
72.5 m.p.g.
6th—Mrs .Dunstan, Austin 7
71.4 m.p.g.
So for Mileage there’s
only one choice.. C.O.R.
MOTO
• IQ
PIRIT
The record-breaking spirit and your own
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Limited (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.)
. DALGETY & CO. LIMITED.
Agents.
Cl. 123.36.32
I Want to Buy
Australian Medals
Obverse Cook’s head; rev. Sydney
Exhib. 1879, pewter, 2 specimens.
Offer $5.00 each.
Obv. Cook’s head on crossed Hags,
Centenary 1888; rev. map Aus-
tralia, brass, 2 spec. $5.00 each.
Obv. Cook’s head, rev. Cent. Exhib.,
Melbourne, 1888, lead or alumi-
nium, 2 spec. $5.00 each.
Obv. Sir H. Parkes, rev. Cook’s
head, bronze, 1 spec. $lO,OO.
Write WILLIAM F. WILSON,
Box 3235, Honolulu.
The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
Bulletin E?uifplinqs ]
252 GeorqeStreec.
S - Y D N e
See announcement page 13.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to hnqw,
IQIMIVd 3HI.
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men !
Greater Brisbane Contains
of Queensland’s
Entire Population ,
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
Che Courier.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
68 %
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary .
¥ * #
Fou can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from:
Che Brisbane Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney Representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. ’Phone F39WJ.
London Agents' H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
FARM ACCOUNTS
The articles published on The Bulletin’s Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about
book-keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are
kept. Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible
language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis
and keep it there. In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every
branch of the business and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he mig
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
The Bulletin, at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be dealt
with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means
of everybody. It will be sent from any Bulletin Office for sixpence, to
which must be added 2d. for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just
as valuable to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy
idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE


THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH,
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
KKSSr 1 0F “ STRiLASI1 ’ LTD " House,
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES-
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Kus t
Detonators
Cartridges
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
SEED WHEAT.
“Yeoman” : Now is the time to select, grade,
and pickle seed wheat. As it is only ball-
smut or bunt that can be controlled by pick-
ling, no wheat from a crop which showed
evidence of loose smut or flag-smut should
be used.
The first essential in obtaining wheat for
seed is for the grower to select only those
varieties suitable for his own district and
particular class of soil. Seed used should
always be true to type. A good practice
is to buy selected seed from a Government
farm or from some well-known grower who
makes a specialty of growing only the best
types of wheat and maintains the standard
by selection and grading. If new seed is
purchased in this way every three or four
years, good heavy yielding types can be built
up on the farm.
Grading is essential. Cracked and shrivel-
led grains are better fed to poultry or pigs
than put in the ground. It can safely be
said that well-graded seed will show an in-
crease in the yield of 5 to 10 per cent,
at least over that from the same seed un-
graded, without any extra cost to the grower
other than the trifling expense of grading.
Pickling is equally essential, and only the
dry method should be used. Wet pickling
with a 1 to li per cent, solution of copper
sulphate is certainly an effective bunticide,
but it has the unfortunate reputation of
destroying from 20 to 40 per cent, of the
seed, and of retarding and weakening the
germination of the remaining seed. A for-
malin solution, used at i per cent, strength,
is equally effective as a bunticide, but should
only be used when the seed can be sown at
once while damp. If the seed becomes dry
it should not then be sown until 10 days
after pickling with formalin solution. The
reason for this precaution is that the ger-
minating power of formalin-treated seed,
after it becomes dry, is very weak for about
seven or eight days, but it improves slowly
again.
Dry pickling or dusting has important
advantages over the wet methods. Seed
wheat may be dusted with copper carbonate
at any time, and may remain treated for
months . before seeding without risk of de-
terioration. Thus, seed can be graded and
pickled in the slack period before seeding,
and copper carbonate does not affect the
germination. Therefore, less seed is re-
quired than, when the seed is pickled in blue-
stone. .solution.. The dusted seed will also
germinate earlier and more evenly without
any check. Again, better germination and
more vigorous early growth assure a heavier
yield than when either of the wet methods
is employed.
The quantity of copper carbonate powder
required is generally from Uoz. to 2oz. per
bushel. The majority of machines for dry
pickling will collect any surplus powder.
The dry method is expeditious and less seed
per acre may be sown ; this method has made
it possible to grade and pickle seed in the
slack period weeks before it is required.
SOUND RIVERINA FARMING.
Reporting on the field wheat championship
competitions in the Riverina, H. C. Stening.
the N.S.W. Agricultural Department’s chief
instructor, gives high praise to farmers in
the Barellan district. For the second time
in three years the first prize has gone to
Rarellan settlers (in this instance, the
brothers Elwin), and Barellan growlers, the
officer says, “leave no stone unturned
whereby they can increase the efficiency of
their farming practice.” But they are not
peculiar in that; “sound cultural methods
were practised by all the competitors,” who
were representative of Ardletlian, Ariah
1 ark, Barellan, Berrigan, Bidgeemia, Deni-
liqmn, L°ckhart, Narandera, Walliston and
west Wyalong. In every instance the fallow
had been ploughed early and cultivation in
the spnng had not been neglected.
Elwin Brothers won with “a very uniform
crop of Penny, which combined good ear
development with density and excellent
gram sample, and was estimated to yield 41
bushels per acre. It reached a high stan-
dard as regards freedom from disease and
■weeds, and except for the nresence of some
strangers it was difficult to fault. The soil
is a light red loam originally timbered with
Pine and box.”
Second prize went to a Beckom (Ardle-
farmer, E. Henry, for a tall heavy
crop of Ford, also estimated to go 41 bushels
grown on a red loam which has been under
cultivation for 30 years. Another crop of
‘Penny, grown by L. E. McKenzie, of Ariah
Park, lifted third prize for the owner;
reckoned to yield 40 bushels, it was grown
Ym heavy black clay soil which has giycn
at least 30 crops and was originally tim-
bered with heavy box.
Elwin Brothers used 601 b. of seed and
451 b. of super, to the acre, sowed in the
second week of April, ploughed 3J inches
in July, springtoothed in September, scari-
fied in February and in March. Mr. McKen-
zie’s methods were much the same, except
that he went in for 751 b. of seed; Mr. Henry
used more super. (601 b.) than either. In
each case the rainfall during the growing
period was a bit over 14 inches.
The outstanding success of Penny prompts
the adjudicator to say that “it is proving a
strong rival to the old favorite Yandilla
King.” The season did not suit Nabawa;
therefore “the gaining of fourth and fifth
places in the awards is very creditable” to
that variety, particularly as heavy crops of
Nabawa were damaged in the November
storm. As for Ford, “there is a probability
that it will also forge into the front
rank of successful varieties in these dis-
tricts.” A crop of Federation was not very
successful in comparison with other vari-
eties,” and “Free Gallipoli, like Federation,
is very susceptible to flag smut.” “Waratah
is still the leading early-maturing variety,
but Bobin is promising to be a strong rival
in the Riverina, as it has the capacity for
the production of high yields, holds its grain
better and is less subject to flag smut than
Waratah. Its chief defect is susceptibility
to stem rust, and it has also been noted that
frequently the grain is not plump.”
BULK-HANDLING EXPERIENCES.
“Wodgil” : By converting open sheds into
silos _ and installing simple elevating
machinery made in Australia (the process
was described by “R.R.R.” in B. 6/l/’32),
Westralia has tried bulk-handling of wheat
in a small way. Farmers in the localities
served are eminently satisfied with the
results.
Writing in the “Primary Producer,” H.
A. Craven-Grifliths, M.L.A., reports that
farmers have carted wheat upwards of 20
miles to sidings (there are five) where bulk-
handling outfits have been established. A
Yorkrakine man converted an old Ford
truck at a cost of £7 10s. He had his
wheat in loose heaps; he and a boy put
63 bushels into the truck with kerosene-tins
in seven minutes. A Dowerin farmer esti-
mates his savings on bags at £lOO ; a Benja-
berring settler reckons his at 3.079 d. per
bushel. As for the saving in time, “carting
of wheat has finished one month earlier
this year at the sidings which have substi-
tuted bulk-handling for bag-handling.”
The experience of Mr. P. W. H. Thiel is
worth recording. A newspaper man for
many years (he was part-proprietor of the
Perth “Daily News”), he farms in a big
way. Before the bulk-handling experiment
was decided upon he bought 32 bales of
bags. Of these, thanks to handling in bulk,
he used only two bales, selling the rest —
no doubt to advantage. “With these two
bales.” he says, "I have had a crop, of
26,000 bushels handled, with elimination of
waste on the farm and at the siding—no bag-
sewing, no twine, no branding to pay for.”
WOOL PRICES.
“Valerin”: The outlook for wool is not
exhilarating. It is all very well for news-
papers to feature “record” prices of 38|d.
per pound and “buoyant” markets, but the
inescapable fact is that wool costing lid. to
produce in N. S. Wales is averaging only 9d.
per pound. And even the 9d. is an inflated
value due to the high premium on gold and
the pegged exchange. Nations adhering to
the gold standard are getting our wool at
sd. per pound. South Africa (still sticking
to_ gold), which produced last season
335,000,000 pounds of wool, cannot get even
4-1 d. for it, and is storing this huge weight—
and. incidentally, trouble for other wool-
producing counti-ies.
The inevitable fall in the exchange rate,
the 600,000,000 pounds of S.A. surplus wool
(another clip is on the way) and another
big Australian production in 1932-33 are
factors which must exercise a depressing
influence on the next season’s wool position.
Of course, the possibilities of a world cata-
clysm are not remote, but that’s merely a
gambler’s throw. Our various graziers’ asso-
ciations and councils are futile in a crisis of
this dimension; they are incapable of meet-
ing abnormal conditions with a set of new
ideas, and anyone who attempts to break
through their antiquated views with a prac-
ticable plan is immediately anathema. The
same old destructive criticism was trotted
out in 1916 when the Imperial purchase plan
came into being, and again in 1920 when
John Higgins formulated his Bawra scheme
to dispose of a 2,000,000-bale carryover. Yet
these two incidents furnish the brightest
chapters in the history of wool-marketing.
The difficulties are no more insuperable
to-day than they were in the crises of Y 6 and
’2O; but the job has to be tackled immedi-
ately and by men with vision, courage and
experience. South Africa and Maoriland
are prepared to consider favorably any
scheme warranted by a recognised authority
of the standing of Higgins; they are await-
ing a definite lead. It is up to the Common-
wealth to give it.
“160’s”: GWM/Vale View’s first line of
6ex sup A e realised 38£d.; the second line,
5 ex sup e, 22|d., a difference of 15fd.
WTM/Merrevile’s first line, 5 ex sup e,
realised 33|d. ; the next e line, 5 ex sup
AAA e, 23d. Frankly, these and other
extreme variations in value of the same clips
shatter my preconceived notions of how auc-
tion prices of the staple should behave.
Many other woolgrowers are equally mysti-
fied annually. Would the M.O.L.P. wmol
experts enlighten us? An obvious query is,
in what way does the added value of 15|d.
per lb. accrue to the buyer?
SHEARING EVERY NINE MONTHS.
“Sh'eepo”: A Queensland grazier believes
that it is unnecessary for sheep to go 12
months before being shorn, and is putting
his belief to the test. He divided a line
of 4000-odd two-tooth wethers. One half
he had shorn at nine months; the others
went 12 months before being barbered. In
three years from the commencement of the
trial one lot had been shorn four times;
the other had produced three clips.
Average cut per head of sheep shorn every
nine months' was 37-Jlb.; of those' shorn
at 12 months, 32£lb. Prices were £d. per
pound in favor of the twelvemonth wools.
Taking the extra cost into consideration,
the grazier estimates the gain in favor of
nine-month shearing at a little over 2s. 6d.
per head for the three years. From now
on he. intends to shear every nine months.
Seeing that wool makes quicker growth
the first three months, there seems no
reason why this grazier’s practice should
not be followed by others, in Queensland at
all events. There climatic conditions allow
of shearing all the year round.
SHEEPYARDS.
“Pine Scrub” : The first essential in sheep-
yards is convenience. They should be built
so that the sheep may be handled with a
minimum of labor; if this is effected they
will not be knocked about in the drafting.
My experience all goes to favor the bugle
yards, so called from their shape, for I have
never seen sheep run so well in any other
type.
Being continually on a turn, all the sheep
sees from time of entry until reaching the
drafting gate are the tails of his mates racing
round the yard, and, sheep-like, he follows.
The receiving-yards and forcing-pens are in
the shape of three-quarters of a circle and
lead to the race and classing-pens, which' are
subdivisions of a smaller complete circle
within the larger segment comprising the
outer yards.
My first experience of this type of draft-
ing yard was in 1912 at Weilmoringle
station, Brewarrina (N.S.W.), where I took
delivery of a mob of wethers. We drafted
10,000 wethers, taking off the rejection, and
counted out 7750 to the drover, completing
the job between 6.30 a.m. and 11 a.m.
M.L. GRASS AND CLOVER SEED.
The progressive M.L. Department of Agri-
culture has introduced a system of seed certi-
fication covering perennial rye-grass from
Hawkes Bay and Poverty Bay, white clover,
the Akaroa "strain of cocksfoot and brown-top
(Agrostis tenuis). Certification, as the
department explains, necessitates the inspec-
tion and registration of each farm and the
field from which seed is to be harvested. The
seed is sealed and branded in the field at
threshing-time. Later, when machine-dress-
ing is to be undertaken, the seals are removed
by an officer of the department, dressing
proceeds under supervision, and the final
product is sealed and tagged.
A representative sample of each line is
drawn for purity and germination test, and
a certificate is issued. For identification pur-
poses, the number on the purity and germina-
tion certificate tallies with that on the tag;
attached to the sack. Finally, a sample of
seed is sown in the trial grounds at the
Plant Research Station as a check.
It is an expensive business, naturally, but
Maoriland has built up a useful trade in
seed export, so the expense is warranted. It
is borne partly by the department and partly
by merchants and growers.
For a small charge Australian farmers
can get samples of seed from the Agrono-
mist Plant Research Station, Box 442,
Palmerston North, N.Z„ The samples are of
perennial rye-grass (mother and permanent
pasture seed), white clover, cocksfoot,
brown-top and Montgomery late red clover.
They are in loz. to 2oz. packets, and there
are larger packets—3oz. to 40z., and 6oz.
to Boz.
A LESSON FROM CANADA.
In the matter of encouraging horse-
breeding Australia could profitably take a
leaf out of Canada’s book. In the sister-
Dominion a Hunter, Saddle and Light Horse
Improvement Society was started five years
ago, with Government assistance, “to im-
prove and assist in the breeding of a better
type of light horse in Canada. Says the
Quebec “Journal of Agriculture,” “thorough-
bred stallions of excellent breeding, some
of which have made names for themselves
on the race tracks of England, or as sires
of nationally-known racers, were placed at
the disposal of the society by the Canadian
Government, which is interested in the pro-
ject not only because of its promise of
benefiting the light-horse blood of Canada,
but also because it will ensure a Canadian
supply of army remount subjects. A classi-
fication has been provided in the Canadian
National Live Stock Records for registering
animals of the type sought. An animal must
have at least three warm-blooded crosses
before acceptance.”
The society inspects and registers brood
mares of suitable size and conformation to
serve as foundation stock for breeding to
selected thoroughbred stallions. Farm
mares are included —“about a hundred have
been approved from Quebec this season.”
It is recognised that working with' mares
of this type there will be disappointments;
but from experience already gained a good
proportion of the working mare-thorough-
bred-stallion offspring may be expected either
to approach the desired hunter type or to
serve as dams for hunters. The others
should find a good market as delivery
horses, since, they will have strength' and
weight, and should be good movers.
For the instruction of farmers with suit-
able mares the society has had comprehen-
sive moving pictures made. One is of a
purebred Clydesdale mare that was put to
a thoroughbred stallion and of her filly.
Retaining some of the weight and scale
of her dam, the filly inherited from her sire
the longer neck, more sloping shoulders and
general ranginess associated with the hunter
type. If she _ does not make a first-class
hunter, she will (as the society impresses
on farmers) be extremely useful as a
worker, and should, when bred to a thorough-
bred, produce a genuine hunter type. This
calls for a horse about 16.1 hands high,
and weighing about 13001 b., with a clean-
cut head, good length of neck, sloping
shoulders, great depth of heart, well-sprung
ribs, strong loin, good length of quarter,
to 9in. of strong flat bone below the
knee and throughout the quality of the
thoroughbred. “That this ideal may be
reached within a few generations, by breeding
our good working mares on the lines re-
commended; is shown by the amazing
improvement seen in the young classes ex-
hibited at the Canadian National Exhibi-
tion and the Royal Winter Fair, and at local
shows in districts where work has been
done,” the “Journal” remarks.
There is a good market in North America
for hunters, but not so good as the market
for saddle and gun herses available to the
Australian breeder in India, Further India
and the Dutch East Indies. Nor must
animals be housed in Australia, as they have
to be in Canada during the long winters.
What the Canadians are doing with inferior
advantages is certainly a lesson to us.
A BLACKSMITH’S FORGE.
“II.D.B.”: A useful forge can be made
out of an old tank and a few feet of water
piping. The tank should be cut off at the
required height, about 3ft., say, and after
being placed in position, partially filled with
sand or earth. Two holes, directly opposite
one another, are punched in its sides,
approximately 6in. from the top, to take the
pipe. Two and a half to 3in. galvanised-
lron water piping will be found a convenient
size to use; this is cut into a length suffi-
cient .to span the tank and project a few
niches each end. Drill three |in. holes in
it near the centre, then cut out, making a
slot 2in. long and |in. wide.
The pipe is slipped across the tank
through the previously punched holes, with
the slot uppermost. A basin for the fire
js placed over the latter, and the tank
filled to the top with sand. One end of
the pipe is plugged, while blower or bellows
is attached to the other. It is an advantage
to make the end-plug easy to remove; it
has got to be taken out occasionally’ to
allow clinkers or ashes to be blown from
the pipe.
CUTTING CABBAGES,
i ■ : “Easy” had better go easy with
his forked stick to lift cabbages out of the
(Continued on page 26.)


Extra comfort
assured
This is an Abbey boot embody-
ing special features which make
it fit with utmost ease.... and
which guarantee longer service.
THREE WIDTHS.—FuII and
half sizes are available in
narrow, medium and wide fit-
tings. Your foot is suited
exactly.
INSTEP ARCH.—The upper is
shaped in a curve that fits more
easily over the foot. It s neater,
and there’s no strain.
DURABILITY is increased by
using the toughest Australian
leather. It outwears ordinary
kinds. Order by post if unable
to call. Ask, also, for the
correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
Tan Willow Calf 557-
Black Glace Kid 557-
Black Box Calf 50/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 270
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
THINK OF
w
SCHUTE,
BELL 8t Out*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
EOTHEN
PAYING GUESTS
12S East Terrace
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
k GARAGE
[nclutive Tariff, £4-4-0
Central 528
Mr*. PARKER
CHILDREN FREE OF
CONSTIPATION
“Internal harmony” is the secret of
health and happiness. Constipation
—no matter how slight—poisons
and clogs the entire system, causing
dull eyes, sluggishness and loss of
vigor. In the life of every child
(and every adult) there are times
when Nature requires gentle but
firm assistance. Figsen co-operates
in an ideal way on such occasions.
It brings about the elimination of
impurities but causes neither dis-
comfort nor pain. Figsen is certain
—but it does not purge or gripe.
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
Your Chemist
sells and
recommends
ẅ
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
F8re Insurances effected oil all classes el
. —Buildings, Stocks, lurm-
tnre, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
Marine BISKS Hu1]s of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
±
fiSTS-S-h
PT 1 11
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN t
Via
AUCKLAND
N.Z.
SUVA and HONOLULU to
Vancouver. . . This is the attrac-
tive trans-Pacific route of British
vessels of the C-A Line.
Each of these ports has its indi-
vidual charm—all offer . the
traveller unlimited possibilities
for enjoyment.
For further particulars apply
Union S. S. Co., Ltd.
247 George Street, Sydney.
69 William Street, Melbourne.
ground (B. 10/2/’32). A trip round cab-
bage country reveals that there are many
who don’t know the fine points of the
game. ,
This is the right way to cut, pack and
transport the things. Work one row at a
time systematically. Don’t duck about
cutting the best heads and waste time and
energy walking backwards and forwards to
a heap. Choosing a good head, place one
hand flat on it, press it over and cut it
off with one hit with a small meat chopper.
Don’t use a knife to hack and saw with
or screw the head off if the stalk is tough.
Turn the cut cabbage upside down at
once, or when you collect you wont know
which is cut and which is not.. Count as
you cut, turning the first 10 upside down in
the left-hand furrow, the next 10 in the
right-hand one, and so on. You won t lose
track of the count that way. Count A:>U
to the ton if they are Successions, and out)
to the ton for smaller varieties.
Don’t take the cart or truck on the field
at all. That is looking for trouble, and
vou will meet it when the ground is wet.
Take all the cut stuff to the headland on
a light slide, and load there. Always put
the bottom rows the right way up, and
all upper rows upside down.
Never cover cabbages with a tarpaulin,
and don’t let the railway people do it.
They will sweat in the coldest weather.
Use' that cabbage sheet for anything but
covering cabbages. If you must tie the load
down, buy some fishing net and use that.
THE FARMER’S HANDY HINT BOOK.
“The Farmer’s Handy Hint Book,” which
is to be issued next month, will bring to-
gether the best and most helpful that has
been printed in these columns during the
past five years. The contents will be divided
into these sections :
CULTIVATION DOGS
FARMYARD & BARN FOWLYARD
FENCES, DAMS & BUILDINGS GARDEN
HORSES KITCHEN & DAIRY
CATTLE PESTS
SHEEP ODD JOBS
PIGS FIRST AID
There is thus no farm activity, except sugar
and other tropical agriculture, about which
the book hasn’t something helpful to say;
half the Agricultural Dept, experts and suc-
cessful farmers and stockbreeders in Aus-
tralia have contributed suggestions and
hints; and though the contents would pore
than fill two full-sized novels, the price will
be only one shilling.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to cure a horse of greasy heel ? —
8238
Assuming it is only of recent origin, wash
with soap and hot water after all the hair
has been clipped away, dry off with methy-
lated spirit and rub in a mixture of acetate
of lead and sulphate of zinc in dry powder.
Keep the horse but of mud.
(1) How to heep a saddle in good order?
(2) What is a double cinch in a saddle? —
8461.
(1) Wash all over with soap and water
and when dry rub in with a woollen cloth.
Coaclioline is used to soften and preserve
the leather. Leave for a time, then rub over
with a dry cloth. If a polish is required use
boot polish. (2) This is a girth used on
American saddles to get an extra purchase in
girthing a horse. It is a wide girth with
a large ring at each end, with a loop leather
thong going round a ring and returning,
and tied in a knot.
(1) Is it true that if silver-wattle trees
are planted near fruit trees , the fruit trees
will not bear? (2) What is the life of a
silver-wattle tree? —B2ol.
(1) No. (2) Normally about seven years.
If pruned and care is taken to eradicate
borer, they will live much longer.
In reading a barometer on which there are
no words such as “Rain, “Fair ” or “Warmer'’
how can weather be forecast?-— 8378.
There is no invariable connection between
a single barometric reading and a set .of
weather conditions. The best way of using
an aneroid barometer is in conjunction with
the weather charts published in the daily
newspapers. As a general rule a gradual but
steady rise indicates settled fair weather;
a very slow rise from a low reading is usually
associated with high winds and dry weather,
but mav also (according to the character of
the earlier weather) be associated with both
rain and wind if the latter be from the south
or s.e.; a rapid rise, continuing, usually
indicates unsettled weather with high winds.
The barometer rises for southerly winds, and
sometimes westerly winds, but the type of
weather experienced varies a good deal. A
gradual but steady fall often indicates un-
settled or wet weather. A very slow fall
from a high barometric reading is usually
connected with wet and unpleasant weather
(sometimes witnout much wind), but in some
cases, as when the barometer falls consist-
ently with southerly winds, it may mean the
approach of a cyclone from the ocean, with
bad weather. A rapid fall continuing through
several or more hours indicates unsettled,
windy weather, with an imminent change in
wind direction, and violent squalls.
I have often emptied tanks with a hose.
For the first stage in an experiment
I made a construction according to the
enclosed drawing, expecting that when the
kero.-tin was filled it would siphon the
water out. It does not work and I would
be obliged if you could inform me the reason
why. If H is the size of the pipe that is
at fault, what would be the largest-sized
pipe that could be used suck from the
bottom of an ordinary tank 6ft. deep? —
8180
Siphon pipe must be full of water before
it will commence to discharge, and if it is
working continuously it would be necessary
either to refill the pipe or arrange for the
release of air which would accumulate at
the bend of the siphon. The lower end of
the siphon must be well below the level
of the water surface in the vessel. The
height ot the top of the siphon pipe above
the water surface in the vessel must be
well below the atmospheric head of 3ft. The
size of pipe is not an important matter.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Mug Bushman”: An old-timer who
passed here (Cunnamulla, Q.) the other day
carried two of the cheapest canteens Ive
seen. They consisted of flat gallon oil-tins;
the air hole was soldered up, and two lugs
were soldered into the narrow side so that
the canteen could lie flat. A piece of hessian,
with holes to let the lugs protrude, was
sewn round the tin, giving it a neat finish.
I’ve made two —one for a neck-bag for ; a
horse and the other for the car. They re
not as cool as a water-bag; but the water
stays in them. Make sure the screw-top is a
good one before doing any work on them.
“Dai R.”: When repairing drop-rail or
cliock-and-log sheepyards, especially in bind-
ing double posts with wire, make sure that
the ends are cut off short or turned well into
the timber. Sheep damage or destroy their
eyesight on such protruding ends; others
develop long suppurating sores.
“Minthall”: Ip my N.S.W. district I
have found the lowa Agricultural College
system of crop rotation, corn-oats-clover.
one of the best for local conditions. But
I substitute rape for clover, having found
it gets the soil in better condition for the
fourth year. Stock can be grazed on the
rape, thus supplying organic manure.
“Pine Scrub”: In grazing lucerne there
is a risk when cattle are moved to a pad-
dock carrying a fresh young growth. lhe
dangerous period is generally looked upon
as when the lucerne is wet after rain or
dews, but lately I have noticed that losses
have occurred on windy days. Anyone had
a similar experience?
“Bilbo”: A dam which leaks through a
stratum of drift at the bottom can be made
to hold well by a trench filled with pug.
Round the foot of the retaining wall dig
the trench four feet wide down through
the drift and about four feet into the clay.
Then ram clay pug into the trench, filling
it well and sloping the top back against
the retaining wall.
“Friar Tuck”; “W.P.M.” (B. 10/2/32)
is out of date in advocating tie-wire for
securing wire-netting. I use fasteners; try
them once and you will never go back to tie-
wire. The fasteners cost 9d. a pound, and
about 300 go to the pound ; they are short
pieces of galvanised wire, bent to the shape
of a capital C. Put a fastener into special
pliers (cost 2s. 6d.), press the netting on
the fence wire and close the pliers. The net-
ting is fixed permanently, or until a pair of
end-snipping pliers are used to cut the
fasteners off*
“Gumblegiibbin”: A skilled workman can
fit a shoe on a horse without heating it (B.
3/1 /’32). and it is held in the trade that
a farrier who cannot do so is not a master
of his art. Farriers make the shoe hot not
because it is necessary, but because the fit-
ting by that means is quicker. The unskilled
worker has to burn to make a proper fit,
but the expert —if he wants to —can do the
job just as well with the knife and rasp.
The amateur should be careful not to take
too much off the back of the hoof. Properly
trimmed, the hoof rests evenly on the ground
all round when the horse is standing in a
natural position.
“Mulyan”: A scarecrow that has proved
effective in a small Hawkesbury orchard is
a double-faced mirror, set up to turn like a
weather vane. It is placed on the south side
of the trees, and the sun-flaslies playing
among the branches scare the birds. In a
wide orchard it would not be much good.
“Notwen”: Mice are numerous in the
Mallee this year, and recent fires and rain
have driven them to take shelter in houses
and sheds. When baiting traps, use bread
well sprinkled with flour; in warm climates
mice like it better than cheese. If bait can
be set out of reach of livestock, try a
saucer of flour to which lias been added
enough' strychnine to cover 6d. and place
a tin of drinking water near it. Sunflower
seeds poisoned with strychnine have also
proved tempting bait. And don’t be too
keen on shooting those hawks. Mice are
their natural food.
“Bill R.”: Where stock troughs are sup-
plied with water bucketed from a well,
back-straining can be avoided by a simple
leverage device. Through the fork of a
pole. Bft. or 10ft. high, bolt an 18ft. sap-
ling, with a 4ft. end over the water, the
14ft. end swinging free. The short end is
pulled downwards by the well rope when
dipping the bucket, and the long end’s
weight assists in lifting the load.
“Dave”; Don’t throw away your ashes
or cinders. Spread them over the shearing-
shed yards, and, if obtainable, scatter sand
amongst it. On the first wet yarding the
sheep will mix and tramp it in, and you’ll
have a floor with all the advantages and
none of the disadvantages of cement. And
at shearing you’ll have cleaner floors and
wool, and better-tempered shearers.
“Karaway”: To protect young pumpkin
vines from' the pumpkin beetle, dust the
plants with cayenne-pepper, using an. ordinary
shaker. As most damage is done before the
plants start to run, and they have to be
treated at that stage, it does not take long
to go over a wide patch of ground.
“Pine Scrub”: The practice of washing
wounds with antiseptics can be overdone.
Immediately the damage is discovered a
thorough cleansing with an antiseptic solu-
tion is desirable, and for this purpose noth-
ing is superior to lysol. If no serious
infection follows, any further cleansing
should be done with plain salt and water to
aid the lymph in its job. Should the
wound suppurate badly and refuse to heal,
use a weak solution of bluestone or a piece
rubbed gentlv on the affected area. These
remarks appiy to both man and beast. Con-
tinual dressing with strong antiseptics tends
to kill the tissue and cause sloughing, result-
ing in unsightly scars.
“Notwen”: To move a tank a short dis-
tance without damaging it, get tw r o poles a
few feet longer than it and fasten them
together at each end with strong wire, so
that the distance between is the same as the
diameter of the tank. Roll tank into place
between poles and carry stretcher-wise to
the required position.
To prove the worth of cotton-seed meal,
a wholly Queensland product, Queensland
Pastoral Supplies, Ltd., offers to send samples
to dairy-farmers. In this eo.’s advertise-
ment (B. 24/2/’32). the price of Dover
stoves was given as No. 7, 855. ; No. 8, 955.
It should be No. 7, 755.; No. 8,85 s.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and seareh, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady (25), N.S.W., wants position as gover-
ness, supervisor of correspondence lessons (help
with light housework), or probationer in country
hospital. Refs.—B433.
To buy Aug. and Oct., 1931, copies of “Life”
(published Melbourne). —S. Chance, lonia, Papua.
Capable gentlewoman (45), Sydney, wants posi-
tion as housekeeper, all duties. Refs. —8444.
N.S.W. farmer requires the services of a lad, 14
to 16, with some country experience, for wheat,
sheep and dairying property.—B364.
Gentlewoman, Vic., over 50, will give morning
services in return for comfortable home in country.
—8367.
Young lady, Vic., returning to England within
three months, will act as children’s nurse in return
for part passage. Refs. —8460.
Station carpenter and handy man, Vic., building
exp., wants job, any State. Refs. —8483.
Words of verse beginning “There lives and works
a soul in all things, and that soul is G0d.”—8419.
Information Sought.
(1) Qualifications for a town clerk and
shire clerk in N. S. Wales? (2) Basis on
which salary is. fixed? (3) Any conditions
relating to tenure of office or pension fund?
—Bl2l.
(1) Statutory qualifications for town and
shire clerks are the same. It is necessary
for an exam, to be passed and a certificate
obtained. Candidate is required to furnish
documentary evidence of character, nation-
ality, qualifications and experience to the
satisfaction of the Clerks and Auditors’
Examination Committee. A leaflet in regard
to the exam, can be obtained from the Local
Government Dept., Sydney. (2) Salary is
on a scale embodied in a Conciliation Com-
mittee agreement, based on the income of the
council. (3) The provisions of the law relat-
ing to pensions in the Local Government
service are contained in the Local Gov-
ernment (Superannuation) Act; informa-
tion can be obtained from the President
of the Local Government Superannuation
Board, 225 Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
(1) What countries are producing liquid
fuel from a plant source upon a commercial
scale? (2) Is the product used success-
fully in internal-combustion engines? (3)
If not used alone, in whafi proportion is it
blended with imported spirit from a mineral
base? (2) What legislative measures are
adopted in producing countries to protect
their spirit against foreign importations? —•
8150.
(1) France, Germany, Sweden, Italy,
Brazil and Australia are producing a small
proportion of their liquid-fuel requirements
by preparing alcohol from various plant
materials such as molasses, sugar-beets, etc.
(2) The alcohol is almost invariably used
after blending with petrol. The amount of
alcohol in the final fuel varies considerably.
In France it is 50 per cent., in Australia
15 per cent. (2) In France, which has
taken most energetic measures to establish
a local power-alcohol industry, and which
has established an “Office Nationale des
Combustibles Liquides” with that end in
view, a tax has been placed on imported
petrol, and sellers of the latter fuel have
been required to purchase a percentage of
alcohol, based on their sales of motor fuel.
Some time ago this percentage was 10 per
cent.
(1) Is it necessary to serve an apprentice-
ship to become an expert French-polisher?
(2) Name of a comprehensive book on
French-polishing suitable for a beginner? —
7531.
(1) In your State (Q’land) a boy has to
become apprenticed in order to learn French-
polishing, and the Apprenticeship Committee
insists upon a three-years’ technical course.
(2) “Staining and Polishing,” by Evans
Bros., from J. Thomson, 311 Qu6en-street,
Brisbane, ss.
If an aeroplane flying at the rate of 400
m.p.h. at an altitude of 1600 ft. fired a bullet
with a muzzle velocity of 400 m.p.h. in the
opposite direction to its fight— (1) Would
the bullet drop straight to earth? (2) How
long would it take to fall? (3) How far
away would the aeroplane be (it having
continued its flight, speed and direction un-
altered) when the bullet hit the ground?
(4) At what speed ivould the bullet hit the
ground ?—i8350.
(1) Yes. (2) Ten seconds. (3) 5866 ft.
(4) 320 ft. per second.
I have a fan said to be painted on
“chicken-skin.” It has a picture painted
on it in water-color. (1) Are these fans
antiques? (2) How can they be kept in
good condition ? —8325.
From 1700 to 1820 approximately, the
majority of the finest fans were manufac-
tured from a material known as chicken-
skin. This is not the skin of any bird, but
that of very young animals. Paper treated
to imitate “chicken-skin” will, when held to
the light, show parallel lines. (2) If in a
hot place it will harden and if allowed to
get the slightest bit damp it will show mil-
dew spots. Best to have a small specimen
case made and frame it with glass front.
This will keep it at an even temperature.
Don’t expose it to the sun or any strong
light.
(1) When teas lithography invented?
(2) How is it done?— B3l2.
(1) About the end of the eighteenth cen-
tury. (2) The design is drawn with a
greasy crayon or a pen with oily ink on a
stone which has the properties of taking a
very fine surface polish and absorbing water.
Modern lithographers, as a rule, use an
aluminium plate. When the drawing is
complete the stone or plate is fixed into a
press and wetted. That part of the stohe
or plate on which no design appears absorbs
the moisture, while no water will adhere
to the greasy lines of the drawing. An ink-
roller is applied, which reverses the result,
as the ink is attracted by the greasy design
and will not adhere to the damp stone or
plate. The printing is then done in the
ordinary way.
What is a Guignol, and how did the
term originate ? —8347.
Originally a French puppet-show, the
equivalent of the English Punch and Judy.
It was developed from the Italian pupazzi
by Laurent Mourgnet, who in 1795 estab-
lished a theatre in Lyons, which was kept
up for many years by his descendants. The
name is said to be derived from Guignol, or
Chignol, a silk-weaver of Lyons, where, as
in Paris, the performance is one of the
most popular street shows. The term is
now applied to stage performances of short
plays of a sensational character.
How did the “inverted swan” 4 d. stamp of
Westralia come to be printed? —B4o4.
Transfers were taken from the penny
plate, the frame portion being cut away,
leaving the central part of the design, the
swan. They were laid down on a sheet of
card at equal distances apart, and a new
die was engraved bearing the frame device
only, from which the required number of
transfers were made. One of these frame
transfers was cut out and pasted round
each of the swans. While pasting the trans-
fers in position one was accidentally inverted.
(1) UpOn what principle is the wireless
direction-finder based. (2) Can any type
of receiver be used for this purpose?--
8395.
(1) A loop aerial consisting of several
turns of wire wound on a fairly large frame
is free to rotate round its vertical axis.
When the plane of the loop is pointed
towards a transmitting station, signals will
be loudest, but when the plane of the loop
is at right-angles to this direction, signals
will be weakest or inaudible. (2) Since a
comparatively small aerial is used, a sensi-
tive receiver is essential. Thorough screen-
ing is also necessary so that signals will
not be picked up by' the receiver leads and
coils when the loop is pointing at right-
angles to the transmitting station. Com-
mercial direction-finding receivers usually
employ a single-tuned input circuit and
periodically coupled radio-frequency stages
to simplify the tuning.
(1) Can any person obtain a trine and
spirit license in Sydney? (2) Also a
tobacco and cigarette license? —8229.
(1) No new Australian -wine license can
be granted by the Licensing Court, but trans-
fers or removals (within specified limits) of
such license may be granted. (2) A tobacco
and cigarette license may be obtained on
application to any Clerk of Petty Sessions,
or to the Treasury, Sydney—fee, ss. per
annum.
What are the rates of pay for trained
nurses in Queensland? How do these rates
compare with other States? What chance
would an experienced, English-trained,
double-certificated nurse have of obtaining
employment in Queensland? —8051.
The Queensland award for nurses in public
hospitals has been suspended. The rates
applicable to private hospitals are: Staff
nurses, £lO4 p.a.; sisters, £lO9 to £149 p.a.,
with' annual increments of £10.; matrons in
hospitals whose average of occupied beds is
under 6, £144 p.a.; from 6 to 11, £154 p.a.:
11 to 35, £159 to £lB9 p.a., with annual
increments of £10; 35 to 100, £lB9 to £219
p.a., with annual increments of £lO. In
addition to salary board and lodgings
are provided. If uniforms are not provided,
aii allowance of £6 6s. is granted. The
rates compare favorably with Other States.
At present there are no vacancies and
several certificated nurses are but of
employment.
I wish to obtain employment on telegraph
or telephone-line construction work in New
Guinea. What are the prospects? —Bls3.
Positions are filled by permanent officers
and the possibility of a vacancy occurring is
remote.
When a N.S.W. shire council suspends
its shire clerk must it hold an inquiry or
state reasons for suspension? Can a
suspended clerk demand an inquiry? —B4o7.
The council must state the reasons for
suspension, and must hold art inquiry if
the suspended clerk asks for one within one
week of suspension.
Are all employers of labor in N.S.W. com-
pelled to insure under the N.S.W. Workers’
Compensation Act? —8409.
Section 18 (1) of the Act provides that
“Every employer shall obtain from an insurer,
licensed under this Act to carry on business
in the State, a policy of insurance or in-
demnity for the full amount of his liability
under this Act to all workers employed by
him, and shall maintain such policy in force.”
What are the names of the men appearing
in the photograph entitled “Australian
Gunners,” reproduced in the “Anzac Book,”
where did they come from and who was the
photographer? —B249.
The men, from left to right, were:
Gunners G. G. G. Ferguson (Ipswich, Q )
and C. H. Briggs. L. Lovett and E. G.
Harris (all Tasmanians). The photographer
was Major A. A. Evans, of Launceston.
What are the dimensions of the Hawkes-
bury River (N.S.W.) railway bridge, date
of construction, cost and how urns it built?
’ 8403.
This bridge, which was built between
1884-89, consists of seven spans of 416 ft
■each ; the foundations of the piers are of con-
crete cased ill steel caissons bedded 120 ft in
the river bottom. The upper parts of both
piers and abutments are of masonry. Each
girder span was constructed on' Dangar
Island, near the bridge site, and floated to
its position on pontoons. The contract price
was £327,000.
Under the N. S. Wales Constitution can a
Governor dissolve Parliament, and, if so, m
what circumstances ? —8332. .
The Governor is the only authority that
can dissolve the Legislative Assembly. He
may do so (a) in the event of a disagreement
between the Assembly and the Legislative
Council; (b) when the Ministry sustains an
adverse vote in the Assembly on a question
of policy, and (cj in a case where the
Assembly becomes factious, or will not or
cannot form a stable Administration. In
such events it is usual, but not imperative,
that the Governor should accept the advice ot
the Ministry. He may also, at his own dis-
cretion, dissolve the Assembly if he is con-
vinced that the Ministerial policy is at
variance with the will of the electorate.
(1) In auction ' bridge, is a call of one
club an invitation to your partner to call
no trumps? (2) A and B are partners
against Y and Z. A deals and passesj B
declares one heart and the other two playei ' s
pass. A then calls one no trumps, bhould
B call two of his longest suit or pass?—
8392. . „
(1) There is an old convention to that
effect. You should arrive at an understand-
ing about conventions with your partner
before commencing play. (2) No. Your
partner has received all the information you
can give him, and you can assume that he
has a fair all-round hand, needing only
assistance in hearts to make his contract.
What is the state of the aircraft-construc-
tion industry in Australia? —8360.
- Aircraft parts have been manufactured
in Australia for a number of years, and
locally-built aircraft are in use on certain
subsidised routes. General Aircraft Co.,
of Sydney, manufactures the Genairco, a
three-seatbr folding-wing biplane with accom-
modation for two passengers and pilot. The
Larkin Aircraft Supply Co. has completed
a contract for the manufacture of o-
Moth type ’planes for the Commonwealth
Government and has also produced larger
passenger aircraft of local design, including
a three-engined six-passenger ’plane. The
Aircraft branch of Cockatoo Island Dock-
yard, Sydney, is investigating the prac-
ticability of aircraft manufacture.
(1) When should a football-player start
training? (2) What form should training
take? (3) Diet?— B447.
(1) Depends on the individual. Some
players commence a light preparation during
February ; others leave it until a little bit
later, according to the state of their physical
.fitness. (2) Running, and kicking a foot-
ball. (3) No special diet. Eat what agrees
with you.
For workmen’s compensation purposes
what is the test as to whether employment
is casual or n0t? —8446.
If, by agreement, the workman undertakes
to work for the employer at fixed times or
for definite periods separated by intervals
(that is, if the workman has the right
and is expected to come to work at those
times without being specially engaged from
time to time), the employment is not casual;
if, on the other hand, the employment ceases
at the end of each period of work, the
workman not having the right and not being
expected to work again without a fresh
engagement, it is casual. But where the
work is more or less regular, although separ-
ated by intervals, the employer probably
will not be allowed to escape liability by
adopting a system of hourly or daily re-
engagements.
(1) Why is it necessary to adjust a ship’s
compass from time to time? What else
attracts a compass needle besides the north?
What is the difference between a standard
and a steering compass? (2) Handy refer-
ence book on compasses and navigation? —
8455.
(1) Many conditions are responsible for
variations in compasses. Iron or steel near
the binnacle attracts the needle and causes
variation, and periodic adjustment must be
made to compensate it. Adjustment is made
by moving the vessel round and checking the
compass on known landmarks. This must
be done after any structural alteration or
repairs to the ship. Compensation is effected
by placing small magnets in various parts of
the binnacle to counteract the attraction of
iron and steel members. The standard com-
pass (usually placed as high as possible in
the ship) is the navigating instrument and
steering is done by the steering compass, any
variation in the two being allowed for. The
direction in which a ship lies while being
built has also some effect on her compasses,
and the hammering down of the rivets im-
parts varying degrees of magnetism to the
frames, plates, tenms, etc. Large masses of
steel not actually on board (such as the
Harbor Bridge) would certainly affect a
vessel’s compasses. (2) Lecky’s “Practical
Navigation.”
Particulars of Bendigo’s winter climate?
—BlBl.
Average mean shade temperature for the
months of June, July and August is 47.6,
45.5 and 48.5 respectively. The humidity
for the same three months is .84, .82 and .76
respectively; number Of days Of rain, 12,
12 and 13.
(1) How to raise gladioli from the cor-
mels attached to the bulbs? (2) When
then should be planted? (3) Kind Of soil'?
—8372.
(1) and (3) Remove the hard outer shell
from the cormels, plant them thick in a box
containing loam and cow manure, and cover
with about Of sandy loam. Most of
them will bloom in about six months, after
which they should be lifted and dried for
planting in the open garden next season.
(2) At arty time of the year.
(1) Will an American all-electric receiver,
designed for 110 volts, 60 cycles A.C., be
suitable for use On a 240 volt. 50 cycle
supply? (2) If not, would it be possible
to alter the receiver to suit this supply? (3)
Name of a firm who would undertake the
alteration ? —B3SI.
(1) No. The power transformer in the
American receiver is designed for this fre-
quency and voltage. The effect of increas-
ing the applied voltage or reducing the fre-
quency is to cause an excessive amount of
current to flow in the transformer primary,
thereby damaging the receiver. (2) and
(3) Yes. Colville-Moore Wireless Supplies,
Ltd., 4 Rowe-street, Sydney, will do it.
Brief Answers.
M.R. J.: Rococo is an extravagant style
of decoration dating from the time of Louis XV.
Rococo panels were usually of an irregular outline
bounded by curves. .. . J.K.: Act as amended says
that if a buyer of land is in arrears for two years
or has paid nothing for six months, the vendor may
give a month’s notice of intention to exercise his
rights. Purchaser may, within the month, apply
to the Court for an order barring resumption.
Expiration of moratorium would not relieve purchaser
of obligation to pay overdue interest, but applica-
tion for time might be made to the Court....
W. 8.5.: (1) A cord is a stack sft. x sft. x oft., or
any dimensions giving a content of 125 cub. ft.
(2) Timbers vary so much in weight and in capacity
to retain moisture that no general rule is applicable.
. ...J.E.P.: A wooden trellis is advised, nailed to
uprights about 2ft. apart independent of the shed;
laths spaced not more than 6in. apart. There is
a danger of the southern aspect being too cold for
this plant... .R.S.: “Canoes, Dinghies and Sailing
Punts,” Angus and Robertson, Sydney, 2s. 6d
E. : Write 1.C.5., 41 Barrack-street, Perth....
C.A.W.: Four to five times larger than the reproduced
size is suitable. .. .W.R.: Metropolitan Business
College, 338 Pitt-street, Sydney.... W. J.C.: Com-
municate with the department direct, setting out
full particulars of an actual sale... .F.0.C.: Write
Patents Office, Melbourne... .L.S.: Baulkham Hills
(N.S.W.) probably derives its name from Buckholm
Hills (pronounced Baukham locally), in Roxburgh-
shire, Scotland, whence came an early settler
in the district! named Andrew McDougall... . J.T.C.:
Darlinghurst Gaol, Sydney, was first occupied on
June 7, 1841, by 119 male prisoners, who were
marched through the streets from the old gaol at
the corner of George and Essex streets... .A.G.:
Write N.S.W. Agriculture Dept., for pamphlet en-
titled “Tobacco Growing”... .N.R.B.The population
is insufficient to support such a venture. There are
also other objections... .T.J.D.: Write Prime Mini-
ster’s Dept., Canberra (F.C.T.)... .K.8.J.: The Bavin
Government reintroduced the 48-hour working week
on June 15, 1930, over 21 years after they were
in office. Six months later, after a change of
Government, the 44-hour week was restored....
A.H.8.: Efftee Film Productions state that they will
be pleased to consider any story for film production.
....Kell: (1) The construction of the Sydney city
railway was commenced in 1916 by a private co.
under contract with the Government, but the con-
tract was cancelled and the work was suspended in
1917. Construction was resumed by the Railway
Commissioners in 1922. (2) The Fuller Ministry.
. ...T.L.G.: Call at the Shipping Branch, Customs
Dept., Circular Quay, Sydney, and the matter will
be fully explained to you... .C.F.8.: Neither N.S.W.
nor Federal Parliamentarians are exempt from the
payment of income or unemployment relief tax....
F. : Records not available. .. .F.S.: Information
not available locally. You will have to write to
Ireland for it.. .. J.P.G.: See “Commonwealth Official
Year-Book,” available most public libraries... .L.T.:
Interest Reduction Act does not affect the instal-
ments... .J. 8.: Moratorium applies to an agreement
for sale and purchase of land, deemed to be a mort-
gage. You cannot therefore, without leave of a Court,
call up any part of the principal sum secured by the
mortgage... .J.C.8.: (1) The case is covered by the
Reduction of Rents Act. (2) You could apply
for an ejectment order. .. .H.A.D.: (1) You could
bring an action for the debt in the Small Debts
Court. (2) There are two of that name, one
16 Spring-street and the other 109 Pitt-street.
Cannot say if related to Judge... .A.R.: Assuming
the will was lodged for probate you can obtain a
copy on application to the Registrar of Probates,
Elizabeth-street, Sydney. The fee for perusing a
will is 2s. The cost of a copy depends on length.
. ...A.G.8.: No reason why the reduction should
not be made provided the cut does not bring the
rate below 5 p.e.... .C.W.A.: Federal estate (death)
duty: Exempt up to £lOOO. Victorian probate
duty: Exempt up to £200... .A.N.M.: Get in touch
with the Dept, of Agriculture, Brisbane, also,
Examiner of Patents, Patents Office, Brisbane....
J.W.S.: Can’t say without knowledge of all the
facts. In certain circumstances the profit on isolated
sales of real property, shares and personal property
is now taxable in N.S.W K.L.M.: To allay the
irritation following the bites of mosquitoes, an
application of tincture of iodine will be found useful.
. ...F.M.C.: A first edition of Mrs. Campbell Praed’s
“Outlaw and Lawmaker” (1893) is worth about
£2 2s. Frederick O’Brien’s “White Shadows in
the South Seas” is worth about £1 10s J.A.E.:
(1) Examinations for N.S.W. local-government
auditors are held annually about May. Candidates
may be examined in Sydney, and, subject to the
committee’s approval, at country centres. (2) From
the Clerk of the Local Government Examination
Committees, Dept, of Local Government, Box 1488 DD,
G. Sydney.... li.D.: Police for motor-cycle duty
in Sydney are selected from experienced members
Of the force... .F.A.J.: Charcoal Traction Engineers
Pty., 118 Toorak-road, South Yarra (Vic.) ... .N.R.:
(1) An inventor may apply for patent direct to the
Patent Office, but unless experienced in patent matters
he is advised to employ a patent attorney. (2)
581 BOurke-street, Melbourne. (3) £l on applica-
tion, £2 on lodgment of complete specification, £2
on acceptance, and £5 on sealing letters patent....
H. : See “Agricultural Gazette of N. S. Wales,”
October 1924, page 758....G.T.: Only six Adelaide
£5 pieces, issued in 1852, were struck. No speci-
mens are known to exist. The value of a specimen,
if found, cannot be estimated. It would probably
be auctioned... .T.S.: There are no vacancies for
carpenters in the New Guinea public service. Don’t go
there without an engagement. Permits to land in New
Guinea are issued subject to strict conditions....
W.H.: (1) “Writing for the Screen,” by Arrar
JaCkSOn, and “How to Write a Film Story,” by
Gertrude M. Allen. (2) “Radio-Drama and How
to Write It,” by Gordon Lea 5.8.: Guabinga,
to rest; Ngurang, a camp; Noolah, home or camp;
Eloonah, a pleasant place; Toonoogah, my camp;
Loomeah, have a rest... .E.K.L.: Obtainable from
Will Andrade, 173 Pitt-street, Sydney, Is. A . .R.G.G.:
The Slippery Charlie was stranded on the bar of
NambUcCa River (N.S.W.) on July 12, 1866. Twelve
lives were lost and one saved.. .C.P.R.: (1) The first
Step would be for the executrix to take out probate;
she should get in touch with the Registrar of Probates,
Brisbane, and procure the necessary forms. (2) Com-
monwealth bonds may be applied in the discharge
of Commonwealth death duties, but not of State
death duties A.W.: The only means of enforcing
an order for maintenance is by process of Court.
Consult the nearest Clerk of Petty Sessions
A.W.M.: (1) Curtis Brown and Co., 6 Henrietta-
street, Covent Garden, London. (2) We do not
recommend them.... B. A.: The extinct abos. of Tas.
had no sea-going canoes, but navigated creeks and
lakes in strips of bark sewn at each end and clay-
plugged T.R.8.: Hair-tails ( Trichiwus ) are long
ribbon-shaped fish whose silvery bodies are drawn
out into pointed tails. They are not related to
the ribbon-fish or frost-fish... .K.L.: Permanent civil
servants (all States and Federal) totalled in 1929-
30, 214,079 ; Australia’s estimated population, same
period, was 6,442,577 (Many others mailed.)


Blue North
BY
H. Drecke-Brockman.
Synopsis : In 1816 “Handsome Jack ’
Fordyce, a Wcstralian squatter, is
advised by an acquaintance, John
Collins, to leave his extravagant and
discontented wife, Euphemia. For-
dyce sells his place, settles an allow-
ance on her and buys the schooner
Sea Sprite. Clearing Fremantle for
the Blue North in search of pearls and
freedom, the Sprite makes good pass-
age to the Gascoyne River. Through
his cousin Edgar, pioneering the dis-
trict, Fordyce gets native, divers, in-
cluding Nguri; and, sailing, reaches
Cossack. In greeting little Sophie,
forced by tyrannical Ma Gannet to
herd goats, Fordyce raises his hat; she
is captivated. That night in Mark's
pub a fight is averted between For-
dyce and Captain Baia Budson, a
brutal pearler who can get divers only
by force. Baia is very possessive in
dealing with Bella, the handsome bar-
maid; she is infatuated with Fordyce.
They spend the night together. Meet-
ing again before he sails he is casual,
but she restrains her passion only
because Budson is present. Sophie,
declaring Fordyce is the most wonder-
ful man in the world, tells Bella of an
innocent visit with him to the Sprite.
Bella, jealous, vows that if Fordyce
will not have her he will not find an
innocent Sophie waiting when he
returns. Beachcombers, on the Lace-
pede Islands, tell Fordyce of a patch of
pearlshell in Beagle Bay. Anchoring
in that bay the divers make a good
beginning. That night Fordyce opens
the catch; to his disappointment not
one shell contains «- pearl.
CHAPTER IX (Continued).
THEY were away by eight' o’clock next
morning. And, after that, day after day,
hour after hour, John and Wilson and
one of the crew rowed and back-watered
each in his dinghy, with the sun striking
mercilessly down on bowed shoulders. It
was hard work and they were always thank-
ful, when the sun sank low in the west, to
make back to the schooner and the comfort
of the after-deck. They worked six or seven
hours on end, not even knocking off for
food, for waterbags Were the only provisions
ever taken. Five or six divers went with
each dinghy, and although the bank failed
to live up either to the beachcombers’ glow-
ing prophecies or its own promise of the
first day, the diving and rowing of the
natives improved miraculously. John made
sure his team would soon be quite as good
as the older hands. Nguri, who went always
in his master’s boat, soon proved his worth.
As John had suspected, his magnificent
physique stood the “boy” in good stead,
and the sight of his brown body, lithe as an
eel in the water, proved a never-ending
source of pleasure to watch.
All day John’s energies were concentrated
on keeping his boat close as possible to
some shellbank, in watching for the first
head to bob up. His mind for the most
part remained a blank, no more than lens
of a camera registering the scene before it.
A sheet of dazzling, shimmering sea, green
rim of mangroves, black heads popping up,
Wilson with a red handkerchief under his
hat, pulling strenuously against the tide—
these passed in continuous procession across
his retina.
But sometimes, abruptly as before, the
image of the grey-eyed child at Cossack
drifted across the brilliant water. Her
flashing smile, the wistfulness he sensed
beneath, had'made an impression not readily
forgotten. She appeared so out of place
amidst her surroundings, such a fragile scrap
of humanity beside the roystering people
he connected with his twenty-four hours at
the port. He resented his own thoughts.
He even found himself wondering if com-
plete freedom were ever to be found. He
was his own master, capable of going and
coming when and where he chose, king
in a floating kingdom on the freest seas in
the world. He had run away to be free—
but here he was fussing over a wretched
girl; nothing to him, yet whose miserable
existence had awakened a pang of sympathy.
Why be ridiculous? She was probably well
looked after and himself imagining a lot of
rubbish! What mattered the rest of the
world? And when he lay filled with a
pleasant bodily languor, swinging in his ham-
mock, soft west wind fanning his cheeks and
stars ’of Kimberley blazing extravagantly
overhead, with senses lulled and ears
charmed by the monotonous murmur of a
didgeree-doo one of the boys had made, he
knew no other feeling but one of supreme
content. . , , . , . ,
Memories of his wife troubled him not
at all. Euphemia had vanished from his
life completely as that , past existence which
she had ruined by her whims, her grievances,
her extravagances. As for Bella,, he scarcely
would have known her had they met!
His recollections of that wild night in Cos-
sack were necessarily vague; he had been
drunk—like every other man in the place
—and the young person certainly singled
him out for her attentions. If he thought
of the episode at all it was only to make
up his mind to avoid her in future; such
ready-made ardor might appeal to most
men, but not to one of the fastidious For-
dyces. John could not guess that Bella’s
long-pent passionate affections had burst
their bonds for him.
One morning after the boats had worked
two fruitless hours, John made up his mind'
to set sail for a new bank. He signalled
to Wilson, and his dinghy drifted with the
tide.
“One last feller dive,” he said to the boys
clustering along the sides. “Till Mr. Wilson
come up.”
Down went the black heads obediently.
Nguri rose first.
“No good, Boss,” said he, shaking water
from his head like a dog. “Too much sand.”
He held out a hand filled with fine white
silt as token of the truth. John knew
then the boat had drifted off shell-bearing
ground, so was considerably surprised when
Jacko appeared with a shell in either hand.
“Me find’m!” he called triumphantly.
The pair constituted the entire catch for
the day.
John, in the stress of leaving the anchor-
age and getting clear of Beagle Bay, forgot
all about them till the following morning.
He was pacing the deck, his eyes on the
coastline, when he remembered and called
one of the hands to find them and bring his
knife. Squatting in the shade of the awn-
ing, with the schooner plunging through the
deep blue water of the Indian Ocean, white
foam flying from her bows, John Fordyce
found his first pearl.
An indescribable thrill ran through him at
the gleam which caught his eye as the
shells fell apart. His fingers eagerly felt
through the cold, grey oyster, ever so care-
fully disengaging the pearl from its sur-
roundings. He drew in his breath' sharply.
A few trivial pieces of baroque. had been
found at Beagle Bay, but the tiny globule
of light glowing in the palm of his hand
John Fordyce knew to be a gem. Round
and flawless and of a p'erfcct lustre, he
judged the pearl to weigh at: least sixty
grains. Here lay the beachcombers’ for-
tune! Found in a shell fished from a sandy
bottom where a pearl was the last thing
to be expected!
. He stroked the smooth gleaming skin
with his finger-tip and went below to show
his prize to Wilson.
“Talk of luck,” said the mate. “It’s
better than many a man finds in years!
But I reckon you are lucky, sir,” he went
on with a sidelong glance. “Look at the
weather we’re having!”
John laughed. “I’ve no complaints at
present, Mr. Wilson; if we get on like this
we shall all be millionaires.”
The news flew round the ship, but John
showed the pearl,to not another soul; and
he stowed it away in a secret place of his
own. He knew too well the deadly glamor
of a tiny milky-white globe, a glamor which
has led many a man along an evil road he
never dreamed of treading until his eyes
were snared by the shining lustre.
CHAPTER X.
Wherein murder and a death-stick
play a grisly part.
John Fordyce picked up a covey of sails
early next morning and bore down on
some half-dozen boats working the same
bank. He dropped anchor and soon his
dinghies were out beside the others. Nor
did his boys disappoint him. They could
not touch the seven fathoms reached by old
sea-dogs belonging to Captain Mac Koo,
whom he soon descried in the distance;
nevertheless they held their own with
credit—almost as many shells tumbled in
beside him as fell into other boats working
deeper beds. But, of course, he was lucky!
The pearl just found made John Fordyce
feel that Wilson’s patent belief in the luck
which followed- him was not without foun-
dation. After all, the only real misfortune
which had befallen him in his course
.through life had been his marriage with
Euphemia—and that he had now left
behind for ever.
At the end of the long hot day the
pearlers forgathered on Mac Koo’s schooner;
the long cool evening passed in smoke and
yarns, dinghies carrying the guests back
each to his own ship across a sea melting
and shimmering beneath the broad path
of the Milky Way.
A three-masted schooner hove in sight as
the next day’s work commenced. Before
long John Fordyce recognised the tall figure
and bellowing voice of Baia Budson. The
tones of that voice, drifting across to John
as he sculled assiduously, carried a warn- •
ing for all to hear. Baia, for some reason,
was in a vile temper, lashing his natives
with viler words, screaming at them as they
bent to the oars and sent his boat tearing
through the water. Curses followed in its
wake, curt voices warning Baia beware lest
he hurt a rising diver. But he recked not
at all. For the last week he had fished
nothing; a bad business for a man of rest-
less and ungovernable nature. He never
stayed outside for more than a couple of
weeks if he could help it; should the schooner
sail far afield he left the mate in charge and
himself remained in Cossack or went inland
to a station he also owned; a life without
variety and drink—and drink never lasted
long on that schooner —was more than Baia
Budson expected of himself. Women, of
course, he took with him. John, as the
dinghy tore down upon him, could see two
young gins among the boys crouched
aboard.
The balmy air, the bright morning, in-
flamed the more Budson’s swollen temper;
already his liver was demanding toll for
his excesses. Impatience at not finding
anything for a week fast mounted to fury.
He decided his divers were sulky. They
were not bothering.
“Get over, you sons of Hell,” he yelled
at them. “And if you show your heads
without some shells, look out for your
hides!”
More than one diver caught a blow from
an oar as he leapt to the side. Torrents of
filthy language ruined the day for John.
He hated, if he looked for a moment from
his own work, to see ; the poor wretches
bobbing up, those with shell hastening to
toss it in, those without slinking out of
reach. Baia worked them to death. One
of the gins was heading the list for take,
but the other found not a solitary shell.
John could see her chest heaving. Obviously
something was wrong with her. Going too
deep probably, for Baia was farther out
than John. But Budson little cared; the
oar fell across her slim shoulders as she
took the water with the others. John was
so disgusted he called his boys in and rowed
off down the bank.
Budson had acquired a more pleasant
frame of mind before he swung up the
ladder of the Sprite that evening. Captain
Mac Koo and two or three others, with Wil-
son and John, lay at ease in hammocks, but
John had perforce to rise and greet the
visitor. A fair catch and a tot or two in
his own ship had been sufficient to restore
Baia’s equanimity; he remained loudly
genial, with an all-embracing familiarity,
which incensed his host beyond measure.
He drank and guffawed and told obscene
stories, jerking up his splendid frame every
now and again to prowl restlessly about.
Peace vanished; the man reminded John
of a caged panther, and a ripple of muscles
beneath his clothing fostered the illusion.
For some reason he had taken a fancy
to John. Repeated appeals to Johnnie For-
dyce as a kindred spirit goaded that gentle-
man to comment on the treatment he meted
out to his divers, more especially the gins.
“Lazy swine!” retorted Budson. “You
wait a bit, you won’t be so soft when they
turn sulky and find nothing because they
won’t look. I know how to take the pig-
headedness out of ’em. That little hell-
cat of an Annie—not a shell has she found
this spell out, and she used to be one of
the best!”
“You overwork her,” grinned one of
John’s guests. “Can’t have it all ways, you
know! ”
Baia’s reply flicked John on the raw.
“You thrash her too much,” he jerked out.
“I may be new at the game, but I’ll wager
the others will agree kindness is best in
the long run.”
“Gammon, Johnnie! A Woman, a dog and
a walnut tree!” retorted Baia.
“Damned if I think so!” cried John
heatedly, but with an unfortunate feeling
that possibly the big brute spoke nearer
truth than he cared to think. He had
always given in to Euphemia. Perhaps if
he had been harsher he might have made
a woman of her! Still, what did that
matter now? He was no longer interested
in his wife, yet he itched to give the bully
a taste of his own medicine.
Morning found Budson returned to his
evil mood. He glowered at John, slipped
past his boat, but did not go far beyond,
as the younger man earnestly hoped he
would. Despite the brilliance of the day.
dazzling sea, dancing boats and cheerful
voices hailing from crew to crew, the air
filled John with a sense of darkness. He
told himself ne had probably drunk too
much the night before; and from time to
time he glanced uneasily towards Baia, row-
ing and shouting like a maniac.
Suddenly commotion in the water
attracted both men. Two boys, one belong-
ing to either dinghy, rose fighting to retain
a shell each thought his own booty. John
sculled across and bade them cease, whilst
the rising divers, as they discovered what
was afoot, burst into a fanfare of exclama-
tion. John’s diver, a young fellow in the
very prime of life, refused to relinquish his
hold.
“Me get’m, me get’m!” he reiterated.
With a swift stroke Budson drew along-
side, and without awaiting a word of expla-
nation bashed an oar down on the tight-
gripped hands With a howl of pain the
natives let go. The shell vanished; one of
the others dived to catch it.
John Fordyce turned white with rage.
“Do as you like to your own crew, but let
mine alone,” he roared, and helped his boy
into the boat. The injured hand hung limp,
two fingers broken and bleeding. Shrill
echo of his opponent’s wrath followed the
boy into the boat. His face turned grey,
his nostrils dilated.
“Cheer up,” said his boss; “you soon be
all right.” Yet the manner of his crew as
they crowded in made him sense more in
the episode than a broken finger. Their
voices rose high and sharp, their eyes rolled.
“Why you no let him keep the damned
thing?” demanded John.
“Belonga me.”
“I s’pose it did. All the same, I not
beat you s’pose you no find ’m shell. Baia
beat boys belonga him, I s’pose they fright-
ened feller. We go back fix up hand now.”
The native grunted something in reply.
John looked round for Nguri to interpret.
“He say no matter. Hand no matter.”
Nguri spoke uneasily; but however much
John questioned he could find no grain of
reason for the boys’ restraint, reminding him
of animals, nervous and restive beneath the
shadow of some fear incomprehensible to
man.
He returned to work, however, after the
fingers had been roughly dressed and tied
up in splints and the casualty left, much
against his will, to Babbet’s attentions. He
stayed a mile away from Baia, yet the
fellow appeared to haunt him, for later in
the afternoon he came drifting down the
bank, through the other dinghies, close to
John again.
The boys grew nervy at once. “Damn
him!” muttered John.
Not Baia, but the big buck who had fought
with their mate appeared to alarm his boys.
No smiles and jokes to-day as they spelled
along the gunwale. They gesticulated,
grunted, nodded, ill at ease the whole time.
John kept on looking over to discover some
reason, but none could he find. The chap
looked ordinary enough, although he noted
Budson’s divers were blacker than his own
tribe.
And so, constantly glancing, he beheld
what otherwise he would never have seen,
a sight he could scarcely credit, an action
flooding him with nausea.
The gin Baia called Annie still appeared
to be finding nothing. John watched her
come up time after time with empty hands.
Venom of Budson’s tones came drifting
across the seat to his ears. Again and again
he threatened. The slim brown form was
shuddering, but it was John who shuddered
when she made her last dive. He noted
how long she stayed below—she must be
killing herself, he thought, in an effort to
find a shell; surely her lungs must burst!
He saw her bronze head at last, heard
Baia’s shout, saw the despairing shake of
head, the empty hands paddling water,
and the next second beheld an oar descend
viciously, heard the sickening impact.
Annie’s head sank again. His own boys
were' below. He alone ha.d seen, and for
a second he thought he must be dreaming.
Surely one of the other divers would go
after her? But they clambered up to spell,
not one daring to make a gesture of rescue.
His divers began to rise, mechanically he
hauled across to pick them up. He counted
Baia’s crew as he made home to the
schooner. Annie was missing; he had not
dreamed a horrible dream.
Murder! He had seen a gin killed in cold
blood.
After dinner he rowed across to visit
Mac Koo. What was to be done?
The old sea-captain shrugged. What
could be done? They were too far from
law and justice to do anything. Fordyce
would get no backing if he took it up.
Budson would trump up something, and it
would be a case of his word against John’s.
Before long the Government would no doubt
wake up and men like Budson have to
mind their P’s and Q’s; in the meantime,
what did a nigger more or less matter? Of
course, he could not deny it was a disgrace-
ful state of affairs, and that big bully of a
Baia deserved a rope round his neck if
ever a man did; but if John wanted an old
man’s advice, he had much better forget
what he had seen and keep a still tongue
in his head.
The sage counsel at first seemed more
than John could stomach, yet where would
his freedom be if he poked his nose into
such a hive of troubles? He subsided
with an oath. Yet as he sat in the stern
of the dinghy on his way back to the Sprite,
his own boys pulling cheerily, rage boiled up
afresh. A phosphorescent wake streamed out
behind like a comet’s tail, breath of a
tropical night caressed his head; yet be-
neath this lovely water, cold on the sea-
floor, lying among the oysters her hand had
failed to find, a little brown body was
rolling about in the tide.


RENEW VIGOUR WITH
ENO
St
mm
o
m
§ :■ W
«
11
Mm
BE
;
&
m
I
HH
-
m 1
a
■
WBBMIWIIIIHIBIBBBHto
mm
1
- -
||ip p ■ I
i :
liH'
was
ilil
■
111
Although many people are inclined to blame
weariness of body on to overwork or long
hours, the fault usually lies with the accumu-
lation of poisons in the blood due to unrecog-
nised constipation. You may not think you are
constipated, but Nature is warning you that
your system is not completely ridding itself of
its daily waste. Do not allow constipation to
rob you of that vigour which means real
health. Adopt the pleasant practice of taking
a sparkling glass of Eno’s “Fruit Salt” on ris-
ing every morning, and keep your system
thoroughly free from the stagnating poisons
that are sapping your vitality. Eno has been
famous for over sixty years. Be sure you get
Eno’s “Fruit Salt”
c&he words &no and "&ruit Salt” are registered trade marks. Sales JZgents: British V. Ritchie & Go. £td. Sydney
ENO S " FRUIT SAIT
Was life so trivial? A moment of uncon-
trollable anger, a crack on the skull, a
nigger the less! What did it all mean ? He
gazed at the stars as he was rocked in his
hammock. What did it matter—-what did
anything matter except that a man be free
for the short time that was his? Old Mac-
Koo was right. Forget it.
But he did not sleep easily, for all he
tried to banish thought. When at last he
did, the incident rolled out across his brain
with hateful realism. But now he followed
Annie down, down, down to the bottom of
the sea. And the brown body turned to
white, and the dead eyes lit with phos-
phorus were the clear grey eyes of Sophie!
His horrible dreams ruined the night. He
went forward before the sun was up to
inquire after the broken fingers. A white
mist had risen from the sea, the Sprite was
hemmed in by a ghostly veil. Crouched in
blankets and tarpaulins the natives squatted
silently on their deck. Only Nguri mumbled
in a ceaseless undertone to the patient.
John experienced a shock at sight of the
man. Overnight he seemed to have fallen
in; he lay as if his back was broken and
not his fingers. No bowels, decided his boss
•—ready to give in over a trifle. Yet that
was not what he had found in dealing with
the southern boys—as a rule the binghis
were stoical to a degree.
“You better?” he inquired.
A shake of the head, an inarticulate grunt
in answer.
John turned to Nguri. “You savee what’s
wrong?”
Nguri nodded. The extraordinary and
unusual silence, the circle of watchful black
faces peering out from blankets made John
feel uncanny. He spoke roughly.
“Out with it, then; I think that feller
one feller coward.”
“He all same dead feller, Boss!”
“Get out, Nguri; he bin hurt’m finger.”
The big native pointed to an object lying
in front- of the sick man.
“What is it? Give it to me,” ordered
John.
But Nguri shook his head. “No can
touch,” he muttered, and John had to
stoop and pick it up. He turned it in his
hand—a long, thin piece of‘bone, fish-bone
apparently, but cut to points and scrawled
with mystic signs.
He awaited Nguri’s explanation in silence.
The big native moved restlessly, fiddling
with his beard. “That one death-stick,
Boss,” he said at last.
“Is it?” exclaimed John, and broke it in
halves, tossing the fragments overboard.
“I’ll have no death-sticks on the Sprite!
Liven up, you fellows. Cook’ll give you
plenty treacle for breakfast, and you can
have one good-feller feed. Let me look at
the hand.”
He examined the fingers and felt the
man’s pulse. Its beat was slow and faint,
and a sickly ghost of a smile was all John’s
joking earned in reply.
Despite himself he began to feel uneasy
and called Nguri to follow when be left.
Away from the others he demanded further
explanations, but the mystery of the stick
remained unexplained. They had awakened
in the morning to find it there beside the
hurt boy—how it got there none of them
knew.
The certainty with which Nguri regarded
the stick’s fatal message exasperated John.
Impossible that a bone none of them had
touched should bring death!
“Not poisoned?” he inquired suddenly,
glancing at his own hands.
“No, Boss; only message from that one
diver belonga Baia.”
“So you savee who from? How you
know?”
“That one bin get’m shell ’im medicine
man. He say yesterday that one diver no
more walk on land. He dead-feller all
right.”
John began to see light. He understood
why his boys had been so upset the day
before—not Baia’s rough handling, but the
curses of his diver had filled them with
superstitious fear; that torrent of gibberish
had earned a promise of death. He did his
best now to make Nguri laugh the matter
aside, but when he at length bade him
return to his mates, John knew he had
made little impression. So thick hung the
pall of depression that after breakfast he
ordered up the anchor and made off up the
coast, glad enough himself to leave behind
such an ill-omened bank.
For a week the Sprite skimmed bays and
creeks alone with indifferent success. Every
day John inspected the damaged hand, and,
although the wound remained healthy and
healed fast, the boy lay moribund on deck.
In vain all efforts to rouse him. He ate,
but daily he seemed to shrink. No more
laughing and chattering, no more sing-songs
in the night. His hollow eyes passed hope-
lessly from face to face; his mates gave
him titbits and covered him up with their
blankets because, like him, they knew his
days were numbered.
John’s nerves grew jangled; the shadow of
death cast its chill on even the white crew.
Babbet retailed a dozen ghastly sailors’
yarns with gusto.
“Sooner he’s dead the better,” said
Wilson.
“Why the devil should he die?” demanded
John. “What nonsense! You don’t think
he will, do you?”
“I am told they always do.”
“Well, we shall see,” retorted John
grimly. “The boys haven’t any heart for
work, so square away, Mr. Wilson, and
we’ll steer a course for the Lacepedes again.”
He went forward.
“You run’m races on the sand soon,” he
told the boys. “All of you. Plenty feller
eggs, maybe turtle.”
A mild wave of enthusiasm greeted the
news, a poor, thin wraith compared with
the childish delight such a treat would ordi-
narily have aroused. A dozen velvet eyes
rolled apprehensively towards the still
figure, with its gaunt face peering over
the blankets, its mouth sullen and loose.
John wondered if he only fancied the sag-
ging brown cheeks turned grey.
Two days’ sail and the islands rose up
out of the sea. Sunshine danced on the
waves, glittered on spray leaping from the
bows, spilled over the blue sky and filled the
air with gold. John Fordyce leant on the
rail and pondered on the dark mind of
man clothed in fear. The land loomed up
clear and distinct. A wail pierced the golden
air. He started up; but before he reached
the forward deck native voices rose sharply
in the keel of death.
He stood rooted to the deck, for he had
not imagined it could happen.
CHAPTER XI.
In which the Stars and Stripes wins
a race which leads John Fordyce back
to Cossack.
“Who is the Frenchie?” asked John For-
dyce of Mr, Geddes almost as soon as he
gained the deck of the Emily. Mr. Geddes
appeared very glad to see his Visitor; a
warmth quite unwarranted by their earlier
encounter permeated his welcome. Yet it
is pleasant to be wanted, and John
forthwith prepared to pour into sympathetic
ears the reason for his return to the Islands.
But first he asked his question, for where
he had left three ships he found four, and
the fourth floated a French ensign.
“That’s what I want to know! I’m
damned glad to see you, Mr. Fordyce, for
things are not going well. The first two
have absolutely refused to take notice of
my permits and clear out—and now comes
this other. Aboard that hulk is a Yankee
rooster who has the impudence to say the
islands lie more than a league from the
mainland and Britain ain’t got a right to
’em. He intends to claim ’em for the
States himself! A mighty big claim he's
got, with the Governor’s seal on my permits
down below. Still, there you are. He got
here last night and has already made him-
self mighty unpleasant.”
“What are you doing about it?”
“Just keeping my eyes skinned. He’ll
have to make the first move—and, by God,
if he lays his hands on any of the stuff
he’ll hear about it!”
“Well, Mr. Geddes, you can start skinning
your eyes this moment,” drawled John
“There’s a dinghy getting ready to leave
the Frenchman now.”
Geddes swung round on his heel. In
silence the two men watched a little boat
bobbing like a cork at the foot of a rope-
ladder down which swung a crew.
“That’s the Yank,” cried Geddes. “That
fellow in the swanky white uniform. What’s
he carrying? What’s he up to now?”
“Seems to me he’s hugging a pole and a
few yards of bunting. Mr. Geddes, the
blighter means to go ashore and hoist the
Stars and Stripes!”
“Damme, I believe you’re right, Fordyce!
Hell, what’s a man to do in the face of
cheek like that?”
John’s blue eyes had never looked more
lively. He felt glad of the mischance which
had brought him back, and forgot about
the tragic ending which earlier in the day
had obscured for him the blue and golden
morning. . He laughed gaily;, here was an
incident promising amusing if not to say
dramatic entertainment.
“Give him a go for it,” he cried. “Don’t
know anything about international affairs,
but it might prove inconvenient if he does
fly that yard of rag. Let’s spring to it and
beat him! They’re further out than we are.”
Geddes hesitated an instant. “We’ll look
nice fools if you’re wrong.”
“But you don’t know what big fish may
look fools if I’m right.”
Two minutes later they were seated in
John’s dinghy, a Union Jack draped on
their knees.
“Get to it, boys,” ordered John. “Nguri
we must beat’m that-feller dinghy. Pull
like the devil!”
The black backs bent and straightened.
Gloomy faces brightened as if by magic.
their dead mate forgotten in the excite-
ment of the race. The American sat up in
the stern of his boat, then leant and spoke
to the French crew. Instantly the boat shot
ahead. Two hundred yards away on shore
the men stopped work; they sensed some-
thing unusual in the rate at which the two
little boats tore towards the shore.
“What about a flagpole?” groaned
Geddes. “There’s not a tree on the place
and they’ve got one with ’em!”
“Knot the Jack to an oar,” answered
John. “That won’t take long.”
“Good man.”
"We’re gaining.”
Despite the start in favor of the French
boat, John’s dinghy overtook them. The
natives rowed like men possessed. Their
keel grated on the sand a full length
ahead of their opponents. Into the water
they jumped, hauling up the boat and help-
ing out the white men. A cheer rose from
Geddes’s men collecting guano on the beach.
Meantime the American nearly capsized
his boat as he stood up and waved his flag.
John glanced up from knotting the bunting
.Hist in time to see him wade ashore with
the American standard floating out behind
him on the hot bright Australian air.
(To be continued next week.)
The Man at Arms.
’Tis true I am a man at arms
And come of low degree;
I have no yellow gold nor red,
As anyone can see ;
Yet gaily ride I to the wars
With heart both blithe and free.
For if I am a landless man
My swOrd is keen and bright;
I bear me lowly in the hall
And bravely in the fight;
My yellow hair is fair enough
For any maid’s delight.
’Tis true I come of low degree,
A man at arms am I;
But lusty swordsmen our good King
Has ever in his eye;
My sword may win me name and gold
Before the day I die.
N.S.W.
N. M.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In 1894 Laundress, starting at 50 to 1, won
the Newmarket Handicap. Since then many
mares have been successful, but the near-
est that came to equalling the Laundress
surprise at the price was Lady Linden. On
Saturday this Queensland-bred flier returned
her backers 33 to 1. McShortodds raked in
handfuls of money, and stands on velvet in
respect to doubles ending with the Austra-
lian Cup next Saturday. Coming from
Brisbane with a brilliant reputation, Lady
Linden was one of the early Newmarket
fancies ; but she failed badly in both the Oak-
leigh Plate and Futurity Stakes. There
have been two striking-reversals of form at
the autumn meetings in Melbourne, Lady
Linden and Blatherskite being the central
figures. It is amazing to reflect that,
whereas Blatherskite could scarcely gallop
fast enough to keep himself warm among a
lot of commoners in the V.A.T.C. St. Clair
Trial, he led all the way in the Brunswick
Stakes on Saturday, disposing of prominent
Australian Cup candidates.
Trainers had their calculations rudely
shattered in the Newmarket. Holt regarded
Gallantic as a good thing. Kellow, who
owns Gallantic, pulled off a big coup in
1926, when he supported her sire, Heroic,
for a fortune in the Newmarket and coupled
him with Pilliewinlue in the Australian Cup.
This time Kellow plunged on Gallantic
straightout, but was forestalled in respect
of doubles with her stable-companion,
Second Wind. The filly gave merely a fair
display. She tired a furlong from home,
and use of the whip by Duncan did not
improve the situation.
Mick Poison arrived late on the scene in
Melbourne with Winooka, the Windbag colt
that he trains for bookmakers McDonald
and Matthews. As Chatham was conceding
him a mere 21b., Winooka did not look to
be thrown into the race ; but he must have
done excellent home trials, as the owners
planked their coin confidently. With Lady
Bert \"\ was at Mascot all.
VESTERDAV ''
Gert : " What doing, ?"
Bert: "Flying,, of course''
<3,ERT \ WHA.T) hwe Vou <S»ot
A KITE TOO ? "
Linden absent, Wiuooka would have scored.
He finished only half a length behind the
winner and was a length in advance of O.UI
Greenlinc, whose effort, with 10.6, was mag-
nificent. Lady Linden had been off her
feed, and it was largely a fluke that she
was sent to the post. She belongs to, and
is trained by, W. ll'. Playford, who took
Wise Force to Melbourne a couple of sea-
sons ago and left him there with J. Aceola.
Recently Wise Force was taken back to
Brisbane by Aceola. Both thoroughbreds
are by High Force.
Sydney hotelkeepers G. S. Luscombe and
J Carpenter were represented in the New-
market Handicap by Gold Digger and Cleave
respectively. Of the pair Cleave did best,
leading until close to home. The behavior
of Waterline was another harrowing experi-
ence for Adam Skirving, his trainer. Water-
line was left at the post in the Futurity
Stakes, but chased the field so spiritedly
that, he ran fourth. On Saturday he refused
to leave the mark until the field had gone
50 yards or more, and Daniels refrained
from knocking him about. At no. stage of.
his career has Waterline been in better
fettle “S. A. Rawdon” was entitled to
look forward to the gelding succeeding Phar
Lap as weight-for-age champion, but he
is behaving as Heroic and Manfred used
to do.
Ammon Ra’s defeat in the St. Leger was
as astounding as his Victoria Derby failure.
He may have been physically amiss towards
the close of his spring campaign; J. I.
Jamieson withdrew him from further racing
until he stripped on the opening day of the
V.A.T.C. autumn meeting. Last Saturday
there was nothing whatever wrong with the
Limond gelding. He made a valorous effort
to win under difficulties, and, after going
from last to first in a couple of furlongs,
fairly wore down the artistically-handled
Johnnie Jason. When Middle Watch put
in a long-sustained run and challenged the
favorite, Ammon Ra had nothing in reserve.
He struggled on gamely, bpt was beaten by
two lengths in record time for the race.
George Price need not repine over the
transfer from his stable of Caramba, with
whom he captured the A.J.C. Breeders
Plate In Kuvera he possesses what appears
to be the best two-year-old in Australia. The
son of Brazen gave Vauntry a sound beating
in the V R C. Sires’ Produce Stakes. He
got home by a neck only, but had the race
won several strides from the post. Another
event that ought to have gone to the Sydney
division was the Pines Hurdle. If he had
stood up Izaak Walton could not have lost.
Bailey Payten, the trainer, received many
expressions of sympathy over the Eaton Bad
gelding’s having to be destroyed. Payten de-
clared that Izaak Walton was the most
perfect jumper he ever handled.
Second Wind is a strong fancy for the
Australian Cup. He was beaten by Mira
Donna in the Essend'on Stakes, but had to
concede that mare nearly 2st. The long dis-
tance will suit Second Wind and hamper
most of the others, who, speaking generally,
are a poor lot. Vertigern, Prince Dayton
and Blatherskite may fight out the finish
with Holt’s proved stayer. Fancies for
Saturday:—
Leonard Stakes: Cleave; next, Einga.
C. M. Lloyd Stakes: Ammon Ra; next,
Greenline. . .
Australian Cup: Second Wind, 1; Verti-
gern, 2; Prince Dayton, 3.
Randwick has never looked better than
it did on Saturday, and the promise of in-
teresting racing contained in the programme
was amply fulfilled; but City Tattersall’s
Club, which had the date, must have been
disappointed with the gate receipts. Attend-
ances will improve during the next month,
but very probably the tariff will have to be
brought down in the winter, and the clubs
will lia.ve to cater for backers of doubles by
providing doubles totes.. Shop and tin-hare
competition is such that they will be
obliged to take resolute steps to meet it.
The Government could help by lowering its
outrageous tote tax from 9 p.c. to 5 p.c.—
that and win, place and.doubles totes would
hurt the s.-p. harpies more than the police
can ever manage—but of course it will do
nothing of the kind.
Three-year-olds did well again. The Novice
Handicap proved a soft thing for Jacko (9
to 4), a black gelding by Magpie—Foxy in
young Lamond’s Randwick stable, who was
clocked to do a mile in lmin. 374 sec.—the
same time as the w.f.a. race (top weight,
9st. lib.) was run in. And Jacko was
going easily at the finish, two lengths ahead
of another three-year-old, Rowan, whereas
first and second in the w.f.a. race were all
out. Herolage, who is by Heroic —Mucilage,
also proved that his Hawkesbury success
was no fluke by following it up in the Club
Welter. When apparently beaten by Cylanta
he came again and shoved his nose in
front in the last stride —for which McLacb-
lan. making a welcome reappearance in the
saddle, is entitled to a share in the credit.
Jacko has 6st. 71b. in the Doncaster, ffero-
lage 7st.
The club got a thrilling race for the £4OO
it put up for the w.f.a. affair, the Rand-
wick Stakes, and its example might well
be followed by some of the proprietary clubs
—Moorefield, for instance. Yeilmond and
High Disdain, who had a pull in the weights,
were favorites at twos* Yeilmond might
have won if Pike had been on him. H'e
didn’t gallop so kindly for Davidson as he
does for the veteran; all the same, he threw
out a strong challenge to Pentheus (6 to 1),
who had easily beaten off High Disdain, and
was vanquished only by a head. Chide _ (0
to 1), finishing well, was fourth, just behind
High Disdain. He and Veilmond have been
two great horses for McShortodds.
Waugoola, having his first run since the
Epsom, looked about the fittest horse in the
Denman Stakes field, but he could not have
been fancied much by the stable, for he
went out at tens. Ridden by Welsh, whose
apprentice’s allowance brought the weight
to Bst. lib., he danced away from the field
at the distance and won by three lengths
or so from the favorite, Pavilion (5 to 1) ;
another two or three lengths away was
Myles La Coplen (8 to 1), a stable-com-
panion of Rube Paddington and P»eelbee.
This Queensland horse’s showing impressed
good judges; he had apparently taken a
lot out of himself by fractiousness in the
enclosure and at the post, yet he came home
strongly. Bo did La Legion and Sun Eagle,
fourth and fifth respectively, whose late runs
were noted down for future action in the
betting ring. Waugoola has Bst. 51b. m
the Doncaster. His soundness is suspect,
for he bled in the spring ; but he can go at
a great pace when well.
Panther, favorite for City Tatt’s Cup,
disappointed horribly, and so did Strength.
Little Roley (8 to 1) looked a sure winner
at the distance, but he stopped quickly when
tackled by Century Tire (8 to 1), and obvi-
ously he cannot stay 11 furlongs in fair
company. Century Tire, in his turn, went
under to Rube Paddington (8 to 1), who
gave a sterling display of gameness, but if
the utmost had been got out of Century Tire
positions would have been reversed. Cer-
tainly he is a hard horse for a light boy to
ride. It was Rube Paddington’s fourth suc-
cessive win, and it is a pity the Queensland
mare is not in the Sydney Cup. Antiochus
was a creditable third; following him were
Flinders, Roley and Cathmar.
Tote divs. were very good—better in most
cases, with 12£ p.c. and fractions of sixpence
deducted, than ring prices, tax included.
Waugoola paid £« 'Bs. lid. for 10s., and (in
the leger) £4 11s. for 55., Rube Paddmgtou
£6 7s. 6d. for 10s., Herolage £6 19s. for
10s. and £4 Os. 6d. for ss—all straightout.
Excellent place divs. for 10s. £4 ss.
on Melantheon (second in the Youthful
Stakes and 16 to 1 in the ring), £2 Bs. 6d.
on Century Tire and £l3 18s. 6d. on Rebate
(third in the Club Welter and 25 to 1 in
the ring).
*
For Roscliill on Saturday:—
Novice Handicap: Rowan; next, Khar-
toum. .
Westmead Handicap : Gloriole ; next, Ku-
larney.
Club Handicap : Chide ; next, Cathmar.
Trial Stakes: Bold Boy; next, Sweet
Yalais.
Rydalmere Handicap: Gleaner; next,
Troilus.
% * * «
“Eagle Farm”: Most of the Australian
States have contributed jockeys to Britain
and the Continent, but as far as the writer
knows Queensland has been an exception.
However, it is announced that A. Goddard,
who has been riding for some time in Syd-
ney but was a prominent Bananaland horse-
man before he came to Langland, has been en-
gaged to ride in England for Richard Smyth,
one of the Cold Country’s leading trainers.
Goddard is a lightweight.
“Chowringhee”: An interesting visitor
from India is Jack Higgins, favorably
remembered in N.S.W. as chief stipendiary
steward for the A..T.C. for some years. He
has much to say of Indian racing, and ranks
the horses over there as better than
ours, in the main. They are all from
England, and the climate seems _ to
many cases to improve selling platers into
first-class handicap and w.f.a.. sorts.. Aus-
tralian jockeys rule the roost in India, says
the ex-A.J.C. stipe, and are far ahead of
their English contemporaries.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Displaying- more pugnacity than is usual
with present-day boxers, American Joe
Connell (8.10) tried desperately to defeat
Young Gildo (8.9) at Leichhardt last Friday
night. Connell lost their first fight a fort-
night earlier on a foul. and. trusting to turn
the tables, rushed the cleverer Filipino at
all times. Gildo outguessed his foe from
start to finish, however, and earned a clear
points win. Some rib-pasting rights in the
13th won the white warrior a round.
* * * *
When Tom Lurich (14.2) “wrestled” Leon
Labriola (14.5) at Leichhardt on Saturday,
the pair behaved more like goats than human
beings. Labriola gained the first fall with
a body scissors in the second. In the fifth
both stood back and charged, head down.
Heads came together with a crash, and both
w r ent to sleep. Lurich came to first, and *e'l
on his prone opponent. As each had scored
a fall, the decision should have been a draw;
however, Labriola continued to slumber on,
so Lurich was crowned winner.
The Ins and Outs
R. L. Jones, who has recently been
appointed a trustee of the Sydney Cricket
Ground, is an ideal man for the job. For
some years past he has been closely con-
nected with the administrative side of
N.S.W. cricket, and has been a selector
for both the State and Australia. A keen
judge of the game, he has acquired merit
as the discoverer of Don Bradman; it
was mainly through his activities that the
country player was brought down to Sydney
to be given a trial with St. George, a club
with which Jones has long been connected.
A good club player, Jones never rose to great
heights in big cricket, but that has not
made him any the less keen about the game,
which he still pursues as skipper of N.S.W.
I Zingari.
“Hotham”: Fleetwood Smith, Victoria’s
new bowler, who is to be given another
gallop against South Australia after his
success against the South Africans, changed
from right-hand bowling to left because he
found he could get a better break with that
fin. But only from the off —to a right-hand
batsman —be it noted, for when he tried to
bowl the usually mollyhander’s leg-break the
spin refused to work. Realising that his
slow off-breaks were money from home to
a hard-pulling right-hand batsman, Smith
sedulously cultivated a googly wrong ’un,
which he has now in good control. Like
Jack Saunders of long ago, another south-
paw, he cultivates a crooked round-the-
corner run up to the wicket.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: It is becoming increasingly
evident each succeeding year that the day
of the amateur in cricket is passing. Not
so many years ago men like the Steels, Ilorn-
bys, Walkers, and later Maelaren and Jack-
son, were on a level with the best of the
professionals and superior to most of them.
To-day the reverse is the case. There seem
to be no new amateurs coming forward in
first-class cricket. These arc times when
only rich men or professionals can afford to
play six days a week throughout the season.
Not that there isn’t plenty of young talent
in the schools and universities, but most of
it writes off its first-class cricket when the
time comes to go out into the world and earn
a living.
-i* •!* s|i
“Shrewsbury”: Some of the English
county committees have lately shown a ten-
dency to heresy-hunting among the members
of the county teams. The dismissal of the
ill-fated Johnny Douglas from the Essex
captaincy has not been forgotten, and there
have been other instances, such as the kick-
out administered to Ducat by Surrey and
Lancashire’s cavalier treatment of Tyldesley.
The latest victim is amateur Fender, here
with the English side of 1920-21. Apart
from his considerable cricket capacity,
Fender is ranked by many good judges as
one of the aeutest captains playing. Surrey
has, however, curtly superseded him, and he
will be replaced as skipper by either Jardine
or Allom.
* * * *
“Sangaree” : The fine showing made by the
Jamaican cricketers against a fairly strong
English team, as reported last week, invites
a comparison between our visitors of last
season and the South Africans. It must be
said that the scale dips in favor of the West
Indies. Certainly they won only four of
their first-class matches, but one of them was
a Test, which they won by 30 runs after
a daring closure, which left their opponents
only 251 to get for a win. Their batsmen
were a more accomplished lot than the
Afrikanders. George Headley, who topped
the averages in Tests and in all matches and
scored two centuries in the Tests, is pro-
bably a greater batsman then even Herbert
Tayior ever was. With Constantine, Francis
and Griffith, the guava and turtle contingent
had three bowlers beside whom only Bell
of the South Africans is entitled to stand.
Their fielding was superior to that of the
’Boks. If the teams could meet —Afrikander
prejudice would never permit it, of course— .
the money would be on the West Indians.
SB * * *
“Trent Bridge”: The reported abduction
of Westralian Eric Bromley by Worcester-
shire (B. 24/2/’32) reminds me that the
;ounty which is chiefly renowned by reason of
a certain brand of sauce has never gone far
afield for its players, with one or two rare
exceptions. One of them was the late J. A.
Cuffe. Not all the counties can claim sucn
a blameless record. I would hesitate to say
how many imported players have taken
block for Middlesex or Lancashire. Glouces-
tershire, next door to Worcestershire, which
produces a cheese that .goes very well with
the sauce, has also done a bit l of importing.
Outstanding instances are Australian Ferris,
Hammond of Kent, and Dacre of Maoriland.
Somerset, in the same neighborhood, is com-
paratively guiltless, Sammy . Woods, of
Australia, being her only foreigner, as far
as one can recall.
(Continued on page 31.)
“Divot Digger”: This year’s battle for
the A.I.F. Cup, saw 398 golfers face the
barrier early last week, the field this time
getting through before dark under a new
rule eliminating hopeless propositions early.
The day ended with three players tie-
ing for first place with scores of 3 up
on par. These were A. B. Stevens, of the
Australian club; W. Wood, of Royal Syd-
ney ; and K. Irvine, of Dubbo. The play-off
was won by Irvine, who went out in 41.
and came back in 43, five up. Wood was
second and Stevens third. Irvine, who also
took the trophy for the 18-24-handicap
markers, was the first captain of Ryde
before he left Sydney for the wide open
spaces.
* * * *
“Brassey”: This year’s N.S.W. golf
championship tourney will be held at Ken-
sington, commencing with the foursomes on
June 11. The singles title will be played for
from June 18 to 25, the close championships
being put back until after the country week
in October. The holder of the singles title
is young Jim Ferrier, of Manly, who will be
defending it.
* * * *
In the British international Rugby series.
Ireland had a field day against Scotland at
Murrayfield, winning 20-8. Scotland and
England have yet to win a match.
* * * *
“The Gaffer” : D. McLardy, the Victorian
hurdles champion, cut. out the 120 hurdles
for the championship in 15sec. dead, equal-
ling the Australasian record, held by F. S.
Ransom, of Maoriland. A. J. Watson, the
Australian champion, who has 15 3-10 sec. to
his credit, was second. If wind and other
conditions were all right, the performance
was a notable one, as it was on grass.


ẁ
QUAPBUP/e
Built on the quadruple com-
pression principle, this re-
markable British Pump is
double-acting and delivers
far more air per stroke than
many other pumps with
larger diameters.
Made by Sheffield engineers, of
the finest materials, the Renrut
Quadruple gives lasting And
efficient service.
WM
(fad
mt
(With
Price 60/-
gauge, 57-
extra.)
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
n
7
MORNING TEA, LIGHT LUNCHEON.
AFTERNOON TEA and
THEATRE SUPPERS.
The Winter Garden
“The Australia*’ Winter Garden has been
newly decorated in the modern manner —
the menu has been improved both as regards
choice and tariff, our patrons receiving the
benefit of our considerably reduced costs.
Special attention is drawn to the Light
Luncheon at two shillings.
Telegraphic Address:
"Austraotel, Sydney"
Write for Revised Tariff Card.
L.i!£——
■Australia
SYDNEY
Hotel
The Ins and Outs
“Tenakoe”: The South Africans started
their short tour of Maoriland well by beat-
ing a strong Auckland side, which included
several of the last All Black team, by 7
wickets. Auckland made 342 (Malffieson 83
n. 0.) and 354. The visitors totalled 374 (Mit-
chell 123, Taylor 113) and 123 for 3
wickets. In their first innings All Black
Allcott had the fine bowling figures of 7
for 75. With the sco.ring of this century,
Taylor has achieved the unique record ot
having made a three-figure score in every
country in which he has played, England,
Australia and Maoriland —a fitting
close to a great cricket career.
* ❖ * *
The South African tour practically ended,
the thoughts of Australian cricketers have
turned to the last round of the Sheffield
Shield series, which opens with the return
match between Victoria and South Aus-
tralia in Melbourne this week. Victoria is
well represented, though Rigg is unable to
turn out for the Cabbage Garden. Fleet-
wood Smith is to be given a chance to repeat
his bowling performances against South
Africa. The South Australians will also be
at full strength, and after the Victorian
games will tackle Albury in a two-
day game before going on to Sydney
and Brisbane. At present N.S.W. has a
good lead in the competition with 20 points,
South Australia and Queensland pegging
level in second place with 10. Victoria has
no hope, but if the South Australians can
win all the three matches ahead of them, the
bacon will be theirs.
* * * *
“Maroon”: Our old friends the West
Indians gave an English team, led by Lionel
Tennyson, the father of a hiding at
Jamaica last week, scoring 702 for 5
wickets to 354 and 251 by the oppo-
sition. The feature of the match was the
batting of George Headley, who was the star
of the W.I. side in Australia, and showed
himself fit to travel in any company. He
was 344 n. 0., and was partnered by one,
Passailaique, unknown on this side, who was
also n.o. with 261. Details of the English
side are scanty, though Kemp-Welch is re-
corded as having scored 105 and Chapman
79. Others known to be in the team are
G. T. S. Stevens, George Geary, here with
Chapman’s team, and Bowley, of Sussex, who
toured Australia and M.L. with A. H. Gilli-
gan in 1929-30, so the bowling talent of the
side was by no means negligible.
* $ $ $
“Ex-Englishman”: The suggested appoint-
ment of Jardine as captain of the' next
English XI is simply asking for trouble. He
is a fine cricketer, of course, and also a
cultured individual, with charming manners
to his social equals. But he has the so-
called “Oxford manner” of aloofness to the
crowd that is just the thing Australia does
not want. On his last visit weird yarns
were circulated about his attitude to the
professionals on his own side. It is a
matter of history that, after he left, a
friend thought it necessary to cable to him
for a straight denial of one of the weirdest.
Even if they were all untrue, the fact that
all Australia circulated and believed them
shows what opinion it formed of him, and
what hope he has of being taken to its
heart as a visiting captain should be.
❖ ❖ v
“Cash Amateur”; Touching those benefits
to veteran cricketers (B. 17/2/’32), there is
a movement afoot in N.S.W. to tender one
to Warren Bardsley, and certainly none ever
deserved it more. The great left-hander has'
made more runs in first-class cricket than
any other Australian, 17,461. to wit, and
his average of 50.31 is also the highest of
the oldtimers, while he was the first cricketer
to score a century in each innings of a Test
match. For years he was a tower of strength
to Australian elevens at home and abroad,
while on his four trips to England he topped
the averages twice, and was second and
third on the other two occasions. Another
point in his favor is that he has never been a
publicity hound, or filled the position of
white-haired boy to the blurb press.
Racquet and Bawl
As expected, the Australian tennis authori-
ties decided to send a Davis Cup team over-
seas, and the selectors have chosen Craw-
ford, Hopman and Sproule, with South Aus-
tralian Turnbull as emergency. The choice
is about as good as could be, though many
would prefer Turnbull to Sproule. The
shattering surprise of the whole affair was
the decision of the heads to give Mrs. Craw-
ford an allowance of £l5O to permit her to
accompany her husband. They plead that
Mrs. Crawford, one of Australia’s best
women-players, will, in addition to looking
after her spouse, help to draw good gates
at exhibition matches, and, perhaps, at
Wimbledon. Anyway, Crawford lias had his
way, and it is to be hoped he will benefit.
If he falls down on the job this time he is
never likely to get another chance.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The Australian
Davis Cup team seems to have a good chance
of picking up some chicken feed on its way
to Eastern America for the opening rounds
of the tourney. Maoriland is expected to
fork out for an exhibition, and Honolulu
will put up 500 dahlars. ’Frisco says it is
good for the same amount, and Wimbledon
is talking of £3OO or, perhaps, £4OO. The
players will probably leave by the Niagara
on March 31, reaching Honolulu on April
15 and leaving for ’Frisco a couple of days
later.
* * * •
“Toowong”: The final appearance of the
Japanese, against Queensland, drew a big gate
for the three days, Queensland winning by 5
rubbers to 3. Much more interest was taken
in the exhibition game in which the N.S.W.
schoolboy McGrath figured than in the actual
match play. McGrath lived up to his repu-
tation by defeating Nunoi and Harada, but
he succumbed to Satoh, the Japanese cham-
pion winning in two straight sets. Harada
and Nunoi left last week for Japan, but
Satoh is returning to England, whence he
came to take part in the iour. The Japan-
ese visit has been a great social and finan-
cial success.
* * * *
“Jacasse” : An unexpected interlude marked
one of the matches between Japan and Queens-
land. Harada netted a shot and someone
behind him broke into mocking and uncon-
trollable laughter. Perturbed and indig-
nant, the Nipponese champion turned to tile
crowd, to find all and sundry holding their
sides in helpless laughter. A kookaburra
perched in a tree beside the court bad been
responsible for the first derisive cackle.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hamilton” : , Challenge matches between
professionals are becoming all the rage in
Brisbane, and great interest was taken re-
cently in a best-ball encounter between J.
Cohen and J. R. Quarton, and C. Brown
and Arthur Denholm. At their first meeting
the opponents tied, and the replay last week
ended, after a splen-
did display of golf, in
a win for the Cohen-
Quarton combination.
Cohen is a Sydney
player who learned
the game on Moore
Park, where his fine
performances while a
caddie some years
ago attracted atten
tion.
* ❖
“Hotham”: The
Victorian caddies’
golf championship,
played on the Yarra
Yarra course in pour-
ing rain, was won by
W. Wishart, the 16-
year-old lad who re-
cently took the met-
ro p o litan caddies’
title. Ninety boys
teed up, conditions
being that only the
leading 20 at the end
of the first round
should contest the
last 18 holes. In
spite of a hampering
wind, the winner re-
turned cards of 8T
and 83, his total of
168 being three
better than that of
W. Higgins, who
filled second place.
Wishart plays correct and stylish golf, and
will probably develop into a class player.
“Hoylake”: Golf seems to have some
affinity with tennis in that temperamental
displays which would not be tolerated in any
other sport (B. 24/2/’32) are taken as a
matter of course. Writer once had an indi-
vidual pointed out to him on an English
course who was notorious for his aversion
to successful long putts. His fellow-mem-
bers were so familiar with his idiosyncrasy
that they were chary of playing with him,
and careful if they did not to sink anything
from a distance of more than four feet from
the hole. Occasionally someone would forget
himself, and then a club would come hurt-
ling past his head while the owner boomed
“To with these long steals.” As
the eccentric one was the club’s ground land-
lord, and it held from him on an annual
lease only, his foibles had to be respected.
* :|e * *
“Sandringham”: The Victorian Golf Asso-
ciation held its fortieth annual meeting last
week, and among the business done was an
amendment of the articles giving the execu-
tive committee power to revise the roll of
registered clubs. The new rule is aimed at
the proprietary clubs, now so plentiful in Vic-
toria. The Victoria amateur championship
was set down for decision at the Yarra Yarra
club’s course, the qualifying rounds to be
completed by September 30, and the match
play stages to begin on October 3 and con-
tinue on the three following days. The
amateur foursomes title will be played for
on October 1. The holder of the singles
title is 11. L. Williams, who is also the
Australian champion, and the foursomes also
stand to the credit of the same infant m
conjunction with Harris.
* * *
“Westward Ho” : There is a move afoot in
golfing Britain to limit the number of clubs
a player may employ. Of late years, there
has been a craze, derived from American
sources, for carrying huge numbers of un-
necessary clubs—Walter Hagen once ap-
peared in Britain with a bag of 20. Yet
llarry Vardon at his top used only 7 clubs,
and was never known to carry more than
10. George Duncan, a great player and
one of the best teachers of the game who
ever lived, limited his pupils to six: a driver,
brassie, midiron, mashie, mashie-niblick and
putter. The caddies who have to hump the
loads must be considered too. “What does
Mr. Blank do with all those?” a player asked
a weary caddie staggering along under a
vast pile of clubs. “Makes me carry ’em,
th’ cow,” was the bitter reply. Someone has
suggested as a remedy for this sort of thing
that players with quantities of clubs —their
Skill, by' the way, is usually in inverse ratio
to their outfit —should pay 2d. per club above
a certain number to the burdened caddie.
Car and Cycle
While Australian Norman Smith has been
more or less prayerfully waiting for some
weeks in Maoriland for the Ninety-mile
Beach to get into its usual decent condition
for his attempt on the world’s speed record,
Englishman Malcolm Campbell has stolen a
march on him at Daytona. Driving the Blue-
bird, in which he made his previous record
of 245.733 m.p.h. last year, Campbell this
time covered the two-way run at an average
of 253.968 m.p.h., or 8.235 m.p.h. better than
the standing figures. The second run was
made into a strong head wind and took
14.896 seconds for the mile, whereas the
spin in the opposite direction occupied Only
13.46 seconds. Considering the short warm-
BEYOND THE BREAKERS.
TIGER: “Any luck with the surfers, Bluey?”
BLUE POINT: “Stiff. Thought I had a bonser, but he got away.
He must have been that long.”
ing-up run at Daytona—there is only seven
miles available for the whole performance—
the time is wonderful, but given good beach
conditions at Kaitaia, where there is an
18-mile level stretch, Smith should top even
Campbell’s latest figures.
“Whizz” : Malcolm Campbell, now at Day-
tona, had some interesting things to say
in a recent interview about the Kaitaia
Beach in Maoriland and Norman Smith’s
intention of attempting new world’s records
there. M'ost interesting, perhaps, was his
comment on the Napier-Lion engine, in
Smith’s car. Campbell says that it is a
duplicate of the one fitted in his own Blue
Bird, but adds that, whereas Smith’s
engine has been lent to him by the British
Government, Campbell had to buy his, and
engines of that sort aren’t given away with
a pound of tea, either.
* * * *
“Stunt”: Two Latvian world-wanderers,
bight Kotuisky and Musluck, who cast up
in Australia the other day, were a bit out
of the ordinary ruck. Starting from their
native land over two years ago they came
along in leisurely fashion by the Asiatic
route, which is now so clearly marked by
the sardine-tins and empty bottles of th'eir
predecessors. They had the customary ex-
periences with bandits and wild beasts until
lack of money caused them to strike a new
note at Batavia. Unable to afford steamer
fare, they hired a native boat and set out
for Australia. They were dismasted but
rescued by a steamer and landed at Derby.
From there they went to Darwin and then
to the south. When last heard of they were
embarking at Fremantle for South Africa.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: “Fatty” Lamb’s attempt on
the world’s five-mile cycle record behind
motor-pace, at Melbourne Motordrome,
proved successful. Lamb covered the run
in 4min. 84sec., and in the last two laps
rode at a rate of 67.71 m.p.h. He was
paced by R. Finlay on a special four-cylinder
machine, and his' cycle was equipped with
special imported silk tyres and geared to
194.4 —the highest ever used in this coun-
try. The record broken, 4min. 40 3-ssec.,
was put up in Melbourne last year by J.
Roche. The world’s highest speed behind
a motor-cycle on a racing track stands to
the credit of Belgian Leo Vanderstuyft. On
the Montlhery track, near Paris, in 1928,
this rider covered 122.771 kilometres in an
hour, a speed of 76.28 m.p.h.
Miscellaneous
“Green Chequer”: Victorian pigeon-fan-
ciers have completed arrangements for a
national race for homers during the old bird
season. The flight will be from Hammond
(South Aus.), an air-line of 500 miles. Only
country clubs within 500 miles air-line of
the liberation point will be allowed to
enter. The restriction is necessary, since in
the past the big overfly which had to be
allowed by metropolitan to country competi-
tors has been a source of trouble and con-
fusion. Two exceptions have been made in
the case of Geelong (514 miles) and Won-
thaggi (600 miles). Bendigo, Ballarat and
Mildura will be cut out.
* * * *
“Left Choke”: Victoria is one of the few
corners of the civilised earth where pigeon
and other live-bird shooting from traps is
still permitted. The most recent atrocity
was a galah-sh'ooting championship decided at
Kerang a few weeks ago. The winner killed
42 birds, these being described as “flying
strongly.” Why the galah, one of the most
beautiful of the smaller cockatoos and one
found only in Australia, should be exploited
for this kind of “sport” is hard to imagine.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: How much Clark McCon-
ach.v has improved as a player since his
association with Walter Lindrum is seen
by his recent world record of 297 nursery
cannons. This took place during a break
of 1130 in a match with Joe Davis
in London. The M.L. champion originally
figured as a red-ball player, but he is nowa-
days as good an- all-rounder as any of them
except, of course, Lindrum.
£ * * *
“Retired Urger”: Something new in the
way of a gamble was discovered in a suburb
of Sydney the other day, when the police
arrested a lot of punters engaged in racing
pieces of wood down a stormwater canal.
The “course” was 75 yards long, with a
starting gate and a finishing post in the
best style. The pieces of wood were of
uniform length and shape, and each bore the
name of a well known racehorse, while two
bookmakers attended to the wants of the bet-
ting fraternity. The reason for the raid in
this centre of State lotteries and tin-hare
preserving is not stated.
* * * *
“Blade” : Although he is only just into his
twenties, Reg Daly, the cox-coach of the
Mosman eight, which will represent N.S.W.
in the inter-State race for the King’s Cup
in Melbourne, has had unique experience of
his job. He has coxed Mosman since 1925,
and the inter-State eight from 1925 to 1929
inclusive. As coach of Mosman last season
and this, he has won the four title events
and most of the other races his crew has
started in.
* * * *
“Shell”: According to a cable from
Canada, Bobby Pearce is returning to his
native N.S.W. after the Los Angeles Olym-
piad. Robert was well settled in Canada,
whither he went after vainly endeavoring
to find employment in Australia. By all
accounts the Canadian winters have proved
too much for him, and he is coming back
to thaw out, job or no job.
iii * * *
“Hotham”: The Association will open the
Victorian football season on April 23, the
League kicking off a week later. One of
the innovations on this year’s programme
will be a match between the League and
its parent, the Association, on June 6.
The first League inter-State match will be
against South Australia at Melbourne on
June 11, and there will be a return game
at Adelaide in August. There will be no
games with Westralia this season.
* * si : *
“E. J. 8.” : “Gabba” slipped (B. 10/2/’32)
when he credited umpire J. P. Orr with
having represented Queensland at football
against N.S.W., England and Maoriland.
Cricket-umpire Jimmy Orr never represented
Queensland at Rugger. The namesake who
played half-back for Queensland against
N.S.W., Stoddart’s team of Britons and the
Maoriland native team is J. D. Orr, a law
clerk, who is still alive, if not kicking. J.P.O.
is in the local Stock Department.


Amusements.
SYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: BLUE ROSES.
CRITERION: BRIGHT SIDE UP
i C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Brilliant revival of
CHOCOLATE SOLDIER
With GLADYS MONCRIEFF.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE BARRETTS OF WIMPOLE
STREET
With MARGARET RAWLINGS. '
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d -
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
CIRCULATION without Inflation!
Cover the Golden West—a land of prosperity and progress
—by using the columns of the Perth
uttiMfe'
The big Sunday paper offers unique coverage for national
advertisers, at a cost which makes advertising a pleasure —
audited circulation guarantees you against inflated figures.
You pay for what you really get.
TO-DAY- the West is best.
Reach this prosperous market by advertising consistently in
the only Sunday paper in W.A.—the weekly with the
circulation of a daily.
Full facts and figures from
HAL JOHNSTONE, Fifth Floor, Wingello House, Sydney. ’Phone: 85690.
Head Office: City Centre, Sterling Street, Perth, W.A.
Legal Notice.
BRONGA or BRONGER.
F LOUISA and JOHN and BAYLEE
BRONGA or BRONGER will communi-
cate with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES CO.,
LTD., of 472 Bourke-street, Melbourne, they
will hear something to their advantage. The
above were last heard of in Platina, New
South Wales, about 30 years ago.
Missing Friends.
\Y/ILL ELTON TAYLOR HART, the son
W of Alfred Taylor Hart, late of Pontville,
in Tasmania, pastoralist, or any person
knowing his whereabouts, please communicate
with Messrs. RITCHIE & PARKER,
ALFRED GREEN & CD., Solicitors, 81 St.
John Street, Launceston, Tasmania, at once.
TJAROLD B. LOW, last heard of at
Plympton, South Australia. If the
above will communicate with the Account-
ant, Dalgetys, Adelaide, he may hear some-
thing to his advantage.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenstand's
Distinguished Social Life.
You simply couldn’t get away from the
Mariposa last week. There she was, poised,
632 gleaming white feet of her, 19,000 tons
of her, right at the Quay. And there were
warm sun and blue sky and a cool breeze
every one of the three days the liner , was in
port. A sight that could not be matched in
any other harbor of the world greeted trav-
ellers by ferry on the morning of her arrival.
The Strathnavcr slid into Port Jackson at
about the same hour, and made her way to
her moorings at the other side of the Quay.
No fuss, no bother, no heaving and turning;
straight as homing birds these two huge
liners took up their positions. For we re a
spacious people, and our harbor is according.
This Letter went to get its hair shingled
the day of the Mariposa’s arrival, and the
barber could talk of nothing but the big
ship at the Quay. What did lie talk about:
The barbers’ shops, and the curling-iron out-
lets in each stateroom? Not a bit of it.
What ought the Mariposa passengers to do?
H'e was all for a siesta under the shady
trees on the sand beaches and about the
open-air swimming pools. The bridge tables
in the staterooms and the talkies in each
lounge also had a word of commendation.
But, speaking for itself, wliat this Letter
really enjoyed was the sultan-like grandeur
in which one, at least, of the passengers
arrived. He had rented one of those suites
that are like a summer palace of the Sultan
of .Johore. They say it cost him a cool
£6OOO without the drinks. And heavens!
you should have seen the private refrigerator,
full to the brim, and a butler valet on guard
keeping things iced at the right temperature
just so’s no one should go away feeling there
was a drought in the land. These suites
have private verandahs —over 100 square feet
of teak-floored deck, opening to the ship s
side. They have full-length windows of
metal and plate-glass, they have private
salons and trunkrooms and rooms for maids
or valets. It is a ship for millionaires and
their offspring, and most of these luxury
cruisers were rumored to be budding Rocko-
fellers and Pierpont Morgans. But, between
ourselves, the women’s hats were not a bit
better than our own.
Robert Ripley, America’s “Believe It or
Not” cartoonist, made a hit with his speech
at the lunch the Publicity Club gave in his
honor. But he ate not, neither did he drink,
for, unaware to most of the assemblage, he d
just heard that a writ had been issued
against him claiming £100,900 for alleged
breach of promise; and, though you may
laugh it off as much as you like, a writ like
that isn’t exactly the same as a sherry and
bitters. However, he’s a good-looking chap,
and making so much money with cartooning,
writing and radio work —and by talking the
right kind of talk about it all —that he
employs 14 experts at opening letters and
telegrams and banking his cheques. He
brought two nice girls to the party with
him : one, Miss Ivain, was in flowing grey;
the other, in sky-off-Cremorne blue, was
Irene Strelitz, an old friend whom he has
met in other parts of the world —daddy is
one of the strong pillars of the American
colony in Sydney. George Fitz Patrick, who
arranged this whirlwind party, was in his
element; and Harry Julius made the address-
in-reply. _ .
Probably the most famous of the Mari-
posa’s passengers, and certainly the best
known and loved in Australia, was Rudolf
Friml the composer of the heart-stirring
“Vagabond King” and the wildly-popular
“Rose Marie.” The composer is a quick
worker; “The Song of the Vagabonds,” the
high light of the opera, was written in 15
minutes about three o’clock one morning.
But that was the effervescing of-the emotions
which had been subconsciously at work;
for all along he had felt that this must be
a super-march—a blend of patriotism and
fervor. He wrote most of “The White
Eagle” in a dav and a half. He was a
fellow-student of Kubelik’s at Prague Con-
servatory, and his master for theory was
Dvorak. What melodies our sun and blue
skies and blue waters will weave in his
brain time will tell. That he was looking
for local color is evidenced by his careful
attention to the gum-leaf band of aborigines
at La Perouse.
That gum-leaf band was the best we could
do; still it’s a pity visitors or anybody else
should think these poor sophisticated crea-
tures at La Perouse are fair samples of the
black brother and sister we dispossessed.
But there is a gum-leaf band at Tilba, on
the South Coast, of which a record ought
to be made. Some day when a movie mer-
chant wants one of the quaintest little
“gazettes” in the world he will make friends,
if he can, with these shy people, and get
them to do their tricks for him.
Victor Mann, who was for 25 years direc-
tor of the National Gallery, meant to be an
architect when he left school, and had ail the
training for it; and, though art. then called,
his first love has never ceased to interest him.
So the last two months have been among the
happiest in his life: he has been watching
the preparation of the Macleod Gallery, which
is being established under his direction on the
top floor of the Bulletin Building. Artists
from all over Australia have been dropping
in to see this new miracle of natural lighting
and to marvel at the size of it —there is a
floor space of six thousand feet. The opening
is down on the official programme as one of
the functions of Bridge Week.
The idea of Mr. Mann and those who are
working with him is to set up a permanent
exhibition to which Australia may always
turn for works of arts and artcraft work.
But they realise that to create a demand
the goods must be displayed under the most
pleasant conditions; and this they are doing.
The public will be welcomed to it as heart-
ily aiid as freely as they are to the National
Gallery.
Mary McCrae Brigham married Reggie
Cook last week in Scots’ Church, and later
at 67 Macleay-street nearly 100 guests
honored toasts with the help of a towering
blue-frosted wedding cake and sparkling
wines. Mary, a sparkle of white satin, silver-
brocaded train and girdled with frangipanni,
a pretty picture, walked very solemnly up
the aisle. She was preceded by two ’maids
in ground-long taffeta frocks of cornflower
blue, and squired by Brian Fairfax, who looked
handsome enough for a screen hero. Mrs.
Brigham, frpeked in sapphire-blue georgettes
and wearing a hat of the same shade, was
an untiring hostess. She and Mary were
Maorilanders; Auckland was their former
home. The ’groom’s parents are the W. la.
Cooks, of Manly. His grandmother, Mrs.
Kennedy, a sprightly lady, 83 years young,
came from beyond Forbes for the wedding.
Old family friends among the guests were
Padre White, who tied the knot, General
Charlie Cox and his wife and the H. G. L.
Harrisons.
The slim and willowy Adele Quinn can
add another feather to her cap as an ama-
teur actress.
Adelp, who
gained com-
mendation
from Charlie
Westm acott
himself when
she appeared
in Nora Mc-
Auliffe’s one-
acter “T h e
Rose,” played
one of the
heaviest parts
in “Cynara,”
the Pickwick
group’s new
offering, and
did it at four
hours’ notice.
The part was
one of 21
pages, and
during the
whole perform-
ance slie took only two promptings. Her
acting as Acacia in the “Passion Flower,”
and as the Romantic Young Lady, at the
Turret placed her as a versatile and grace-
ful actress, since when she has been in con-
stant demand by the city’s many play-acting
groups.
The departure of the Spitzers will make a
stir in the French colony in Sydney. Mr.
Spitzer, who has for many years governed
the affairs of the French Bank (Compton-
National d’Escompte de Paris) here, has
been appointed to the very important post
of general manager in London. The family
will miss its beautiful Double Bay home,
and young Sydney will miss son Paul, one
of its best dancers and amateur actors. Mr.
and Mrs. Spitzer, Paul and Valerie sail by
the Maloja on the 23rd of next month.
Gladys Owen, who is soon t 0 marry artist
John Moore, is being feted by the Red Cross,
of which organisation she is such a notable
member. One of the prettiest compliments
was last week’s “comradeship” luncheon of
the Red Cross Younger Set, when she and
Mr. Moore were the guests of honor. Gladys,
almost completely surrounded by pink
gladioli, roses and carnations, made one of
her clear-cut speeches, and carried off a pot-
tery bowl as a souvenir. The committee of
the Junior Red Cross also offered compli-
mentary foods and glowing tributes, and
here the speakers were Chief Justice Streets
lady and Mrs. R. R. S. Mackinnon.
This Letter always thought that exchange
was some dreadful ogre which sucks at your
pocket-book. But it seems it can be quite
an agreeable sort of fairy. Four years ago
Mel Sheffer, of Clarence-street and Mosman,
went back to S’Africa, after a business trip,
to marry Veronique Gale; and father and
mother arrived lately from Durban to see
their grand-daughter —they had last seen
Sydney over 25 years ago. Mrs. Gale was a
Sydney girl. To come back to the benevo-
lent fairy S’Africa, being still on the gold
standard, English notes are worth there no
more than about 14s. So the S’African tra-
veller to Australia buys British notes m
his home town for 14s. and sells them here
for 255. and decides that the world is going
very well. This week the Durban visitors
have been renewing an old friendship with
the Mountains and making a new one with
Jenolan. .
One of the most brilliant spots on the
night of the Bridge opening will be No. 4
Circular Quay.
Here the
Nieuw Ze e-
land will swing
a blaze of
lights for a
ball; gaily-
plumaged
women, and
well - groomed
men will
watch the
lacework of
steel girders
spanning Port
Jackson, while
rockets and
lights are re-
flected below.
The ball is in
aid of the
Adult Deaf
and Dumb
Society, an d
every ticket is .' , . „
already sold. The lady in this Dorothy
Welding picture is Mrs. . Mick Bruxner, one
of the ball’s clever organisers. Chief Justice
Street’s lady is president of the committee,
and both the Commonwealth and State vice-
res. have promised to be present.
When, following the custom of all new
Ludmayors’ ladies, Mrs. Walder coo-eed the
writing women of Sydney to her parlors,
she must have been surprised at the response.
Even presswomen of a decade s . standing
blinked at viewing the overpowering num-
bers of fellow-scribes. But the crowded
room proved one thing—that presswork must
be a healthy occupation, and the axiom that
old soldiers never die may one day be en-
larged to include the pen as well as the
sword. There was no music,, which seemed
all to the good, for those staid rooms, with
their air of always listening, have never
heard more active chattering. The Mayor-
ess, in a white frock patterned over with red,
made an attractive and thoughtful hostess;
and a special welcome from all surged out
to veteran writer Mary Salmon, who is
making a gallant recovery from her long-
illness. , , .
Mrs. Wilfred Fairfax and her fair Mar-
garet go off by the Orontes, and with them
goes Lady Norali Jellicoe, who has been stay-
ing for a few days at Government House.
This young daughter of Maoriland’s one-time
G.-G. loves the country where so much of
her childhood was passed and has been pay-
ing it a long visit, her headquarters being
a cottage in Government House grounds.
Last week one of the Games’s homely tennis
parties was turned into a “happy-journey
send-off for the two youpg things, while, a
smattering of grown-ups, Mrs. Wilfred Fair-
fax, Oswald Cheeke and Mrs. Malle.y. amongst
them, discussed everything but politics. The
following afternoon the lawns of Doone —
Jean Cheriton’s school —staged a. party to
farewell Margaret Fairfax, who is one or
its young old-girls. The guests were mostly
former pupils and their youthful mothers,
clever little actress Margaret Honey and her
mother, Mrs. Byron Beans, being early arri-
vals. At half-past four Lady Game dropped
in on the party, very cool and fresh-looking
in jade greens ; Margaret Fairfax, in white,
looked under her wide-brimmed hat as fresh
as a field flower; Mrs. Fairfax wore her
clear complexion above flowered chiffons.
Joyce Beazley and Phyl Massey were under-
studies to the hostess, who wore grass-green.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite smiled all
over when last week’s slump in temperature
gave her a chance to wear a black jersey
suit brought by a fond aunt from the other
end of the earth. This has a white close-
fitting jumper and a long black bouclette
coat, belted with soft patent leather and
collared in black fur. With this goes one
of those half-slices of hat worn well on one
side, with a flat orange feather to stress the
tilt. She has also, through the same rela-
tion, acquired a black tulle dress springy
with little ruches, cut into a deep V at the
back, and worn with a tiny muff of white
gardenias. These flower muffs are very new,
and go with the wreaths that bloom like tidy
little borders on locks of all tints.
Ivy Shilling, the dancer who left Aus-
tralia and the J.C.W. firm years ago to try
her luck in London, and came back eight or
ten years ago under engagement to her old
Firm, is engaged to be married. Recent
London picture papers show the dark good-
looking girl reading telegrams of congratu-
lations on her engagement to Mr. John E.
Ryan, a Hafley-street surgeon, who is also
an Australian.
Oswald Cheeke is getting his cocktail-
shaker in order, for Sydney will soon be
brimming over with his friends. Sir Daniel
Cooper, baronet, of Woollahra, is arriving
by the Orford. He is really Sir George, but
as there were other Sir George Coopers he
decided to be Daniel. His grandfather was
the original old Sir Daniel Cooper, of Syd-
ney, Speaker of the Assembly as far back as
1556, and his father, Sir William, married
Alice Hill, sister of Mrs. Wentworth, Nellie
Rundle and Fanny Macnamara —all very
well-known Sydney people. Nor does the
link with Australia end there, for last year
his son married an Australian. With him
comes “Jockey” Norman, his friend, a great
sporting man, whose wife is one of the Lux-
moores —a notable Eton family. By the
Orford, too, come the Honorable Roland and
Mrs. Ivitson —they are to be bigwigs during
the Bridge celebrations. And the Stratluiaver
brought the Manning lady and daughter
Edith, so the bachelor eyrie up above Double
Bay will soon be the scene of reunions.
The Ivitsons are an old Leeds family: one
of them —in the steel business, of course —
was Lord Mayor at the old Queen’s Diamond
Jubilee, and became Lord Airedale thereafter.
The visitor, a son of the first baron by a
second wife, went into the iron and steel
Vusiness, too, after leaving Cambridge, and
was chairman of one of the cos. which were
merged to make the present great Dorman,
Long Co. He is a director of the Bank of
England, too. His wife was a Vaudeleur.
This Letter met an authoress from the
Outback last week. She is Myrtle Rose
White, wife of Con White, manager of Won-
naminta, one of Kidman’s cattle-runs out
beyond Broken Hill. This station belonged
originally to the Ivennedys, of exploring
renown. Of the original timber about the
straggling, comfortable homestead only one
magnificent cedar remains; for nowadays the
homestead water-supply is from bores, and
no green stuff will thrive because of the
minerals seeping through the soil. Mrs.
White’s nearest neighbors are 16 miles away,
but, of course, there’s always a visitor or
two.
Do you know the story of Sydney’s under-
ground railway, upon which more money has
been spent than on the Bridge itself? Illus-
trated and described, it is one of the many
special articles in the great Three-in-One
Bridge and Easter number of The Bulletin,
to be published on March 16.
Breezes from Bananaland :—•
There was a big audience at His Majesty’s
Theatre when “As Husbands Go” was staged for
the first time here. Dulcie Cherry, much thinner
than when we saw her last, opened the ball with
songs; Ethel Morrison and Iris Darbyshire, both
new to us, were pleasing features of the show;
Leslie Victor and Harvey Adams also scored successes.
The C.J. and his lady had a box, Mrs. Ray Stanley
and Elsie Stirling with them.
Mrs. W. H. Carvosso, all her life a stalwart
temperance worker, died at 1 0 at Dr. A. B. Car-
vosso’s, at New Farm. She went to America 10
years ago as a delegate to the world’s convention, and
was for 25 years president of the W.C.T.U. Central
Union. Her husband is sheriff of the Supreme Court.
Hazel le Grand, daughter of the Romeo le Grands,
Buranda, has announced her engagement to J. Hip-
wood Nicklin.
Norman Fell and Ivy Rolfe were married at St.
John’s, Townsville. The bride, who was a member
of the N.S.W. Bush Nursing staff, wore blue floral
mariette with cream hat. Mrs. W. L. McElroy, her
sister, was matron of honor, in blue georgette.
Colin Anderson Gray and Elizabeth M. (Betty)
Carter, whose father is Consul for France, were made
one at St. Mary’s, Kangaroo Point. The bride, who
was given away by her father, was in white satin
with embroidered Brussels-lace veil. Jacqueline
and Vivienne Carter and Rene Cummins ’maided in
white Chantilly lace with satin tricorne hats. The
reception was at Nunnington, Mrs. Carter wearing
gold lame with a design in rose and green. Neutral
Bay, Sydney, is the future home of the pair.
President Mrs. A. E. Moore was in the chair
for the 15th general meeting of the women’s section
of the Queensland Social Service League held in the
City Hall, at which a great improvement was reported
in the work of the housecraft training school.
Twenty-eight sewing-machines are in use.
There was a Lutheran wedding at Marburm, Arnold
Bachmann and Elsie M. Stegemann being the
participants. The bride was in ivory mariette with
silk ’broidered veil. Alice Stegemann ’maided in
green brocade taffetas.
Green lawns, a wide blue river, old gnarled trees
and bright shrubs a-blowing in a pleasant breeze,
with butterfly frocks and stalwart brown youth, met
the eye at the garden party and regatta of the Great
Public Schools old boys’ rowing club held at Midden-
bury, Toowong, the home of the O’Sheas. Ella
O’Shea was hostess in mushroom crspe georgette.
There was tea on the verandah, and amongst those
entertained were the Premier and Mrs. Moore, Mr.
and Mrs. Douglas, E. Wadley, the J. F. McCoJms
and daughter Cyris, Mrs. Gordon Graham and Leith
Graham, the Ormond Smiths, the Conahans (Sydney),
Mrs. Willie Persse (Beaudesert), Mollie Brenan and
Kathleen Macgregor.
Kit Hetherington, daughter of the John Hethering-
tons, St. George, announces her engagement to Arthur
Kingston, Underwood.


ar-Js
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
_ Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oaultieia,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
“Leaning up against the World.”
That is no good. Yet that is. what our loan-
mongers want Australia to keep on doing. Co-
operate with the world if you like, but don’t
try to lean against it. Read “THE BARRIER
MINER” leading article of Thursday, February
25 on that subject. Monday, February 29, was
the 44th birthday of “The Barrier Miner,” the
Far West daily newspaper, published twice daily
at Broken Hill, where the people in town and
country want no other.
The Australian Art Exhibition
'THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
' Ru.ilsrir.Qs~]
i 252 Georqe Mreet j
*3 S Y D N & V [P
€> ' <3
See announcement page 13.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800for [?]
Buckley e-Nunn, [?]
[?]
Mannequin parades of winter fashions
give evidence that the modistes have put
their heads together and declared war on
the black or black-and-white toilette. For
outdoor wear they prescribe green in various
shades—the very trying billiard-table hue
is particularly favored —also brown in tones
of nigger, caroube and a very milky cafe
au hit. Woollen materials which include
such old friends as repp and diagonal cloth
under new names are presented in man-
darin, burnt orange and other warm colors
of the same tube. Red in fruity tints is
given a limited innings. Blue is not in
favor. The detachable sleeve and collar
are featured at a Swanston-street house.
You can have sleeves with a puff at the
slioulder, or a larger one at the elbow, or
perfectly plain. For a topcoat the gaunt-
leted style is in order. The detachable
sleeve is really a very long cuff, extending
from wrist to elbow, or higher. By attach-
ing it an evening gown may be converted
into a dinner or day frock. These two-in-
one dresses generally have a small puff
sleeve first of all, and the extra sleeve,
which occasionally has another puff, is held
in position by an elastic band. An effec-
tive example was shown in black velvet,
the upper part of the bodice being of white
satin. Fur collars for tailored suit or top-
coat are merely finished with tie-ends. The
old-fashioned fur tippet has been revived to
take its stance with the muff.
The threatened resurrection of the bustle
turns out to be a very slight hump. A
couple of flat loops or a semi-basque effect
suffice on most dance or party frocks upon
which these modifications at the back
appear. Skirts for party occasions are
right to the ground, but for tailored en-
sembles and sports suits they are a shade
shorter than formerly. Curves are in order
for all clothes. Topcoats with great fur
collars and bits of the pelt winding snake-
like from wrist to elbow have clinging lines.
Many of the surtouts are built in military
style, with deep capes. In such cases
fur is omitted and gilt or brass makes the
trimming. The princess mode, with its
gracious modelling, is favored for evening
gowns, which are of lace, satin or velvet.
Velvets are well to the fore, and are offered
in rich shades of parma violet, rose red,
green, brown and scarlet. An extraordinary
variety of adornment is permissible in
dressy frocks. In some of these flaring
flounces and godets galore give great ful-
ness about the ankles. A dainty frock
for a debutante is of chiffon of the new
shade of Afrique blue, which is misty. It
is a mass of fluffy wee frills from top to
toe. Tiny pink roses make a waistbelt and
are scattered in medallion form about the
skirt.
In writing of the one-piece daytime
dresses of almost any woollen material, an
authority on fashion describes them as trim
rather than trimmed, which is an apt sum-
ming-up. These comfortable, well-tailored
frocks with a smart belt and pleats or godets
on the skirt don’t seem to require much
adornment. About many of the topcoats
there is a suggestion of the coat-dress, for
they are made to cross over well and are
finished with belts. As felt hats can be
got to ma.:ch any of these, the woman
who has to consider cost —and there are few
of us who don’t nowadays-—can provide her-
self with a very nice turnout for a moderate
outlay.
Some smart hats worn with tailored suits
at the mannequin parades were turned up
at the back with a wing or other plumage.
This year hats are to be exactly the shade
of suit, top-coat or coat-frock. When not
so, they must match some other part of the
attire. In the sport suits, when the sweater
is fanciful, they companion the skirt and
cardigan. or coat. The new headwear may
be described as temperamental, for it can
be worn at any angle—saucy, rakish,
jauntj’, coy or prim and proper. At any
slant it can hardly avoid being smart.
Newmarket Handicap Day at Flemington
started warm and sultry, but after the first
race the wind veered round, and it became
delightfully cool. The course and enclosure
looked beautiful. There were masses of
flowers all around the long drive, and on
the lawns standard roses covered with blooms
arose out of circular beds of begonias and
pansies at intervals. The window-boxes
along the front of the big stand were filled
with rosy-morn petunias and salvia, with
small yellow-tipped shrubs between. Some
American visitors vastly admired the lay-
out, and were thrilled by our opportunities
for open betting, including the totalisator.
Though the morning was a bit too warm for
autumn attire, tailored suits, coat frocks
and felt hats came out for airing in scores,
and a great deal of green was worn. St.
Patrick’s Day in Dublin was nothing to it.
The billiard-table hue was much in favor,
and ran up the whole scale of semi-tones
to the palest water-lily. There was green
in floral chiffons, plain georgettes, silks and
all manner of woollen fabrics, and the mil-
linery followed suit.
Lieutenant-Governor Irvine and his lady
were in the v.-r. box. She wore crgpe de
Chine of golden-brown tint patterned with
a small pinky-beige flower, and her sun-
burnt straw hat was banded with velvet. The
Earl and .Countess of Jersey were interested
visitors. A persimmon-red crepe-de-Chine
frock topped by a white straw hat was worn
by the lady. She was accompanied by Mrs.
George Chirnside, whose reseda-green frock
was covered by a fawn coat and topped
by a brown hat. Marjorie Clarke was also
in the party. The Glasgow lady was com-
panioned by her daughter, Mrs. McLaughlin.
Mrs. Clive Leonard’s lovely pale-green georg-
ette frock had a matching coat with a luxuri-
ous fur collar, and her hat was in harmony.
Beverley Jackson sported three shades or
green with her short plain coat, worn with
a figured skirt and felt hat. The Chauvel
lady was there with her eldest daughter.
Mr. and Mrs. W. Seymour, she in a pat-
terned brown ensemble; Mrs. Leroy Burn-
ham, in a smart fur-trimmed chocolate-
brown suit with matching felt hat and Lady
brown suit with matching felt hat, and Lady
the crowd about the members’ enclosure.
Among visitors were Mr. and Mrs. Ker, of
North Queensland; Mrs. Eric Wood, from
Hay; and Mary Boyd, from a squattage at
Bacchus Marsh. Betty Wilkinson, who wore
the palest of green frocks with a brown
hat, was squired by her fiance, Major Edric
Henty. Knight Frank Clarke’s wife wore
diaphanous draperies of periwinkle blue
with a crinoline hat. Mr. and Mrs. Edward
A. Callanan, of New York, who are staying
at Menzies’, had much praise for the beauty
of the course. A freakish outfit was worn
by a girl who combined white satin and blue
and white check tweed. A diamond-shaped
piece of the woollen fabric ornamented the
back of the white bodice. To add to
the bizarre effect was a white woollen
chapeau shaped like a child’s sailor hat,
very small and just perched on her marcel
wave.
Weather favored the garden party at Tay
Creggan, the W. Mortills’ home at Hawthorn,
organised by Mrs. Mortill, Mrs. H. J.
Robertson and Mrs. Edgar Dye on behalf
of the Berry-street Foundling Home, East
Melbourne. National dances of Europe and
Asia, in costume, were performed upon
the lawn, and many of those who aided the
promoters’ efforts wore national dress also.
Many hundreds patronised the affair, includ-
ing Mrs. Dyer, whose frock was opal green
crepe almonza, and her hat the same shade
of velvet. Mrs. Mortill wore a Russian gala
robe of rose-pink brocade, with fluttering
ribbons and gold millinery. Madame Kassov-
skaia, who stage-managed the dancing,
sported the Cossack uniform in which she
fought during the Great War. Over her
black coat was a red-and-cream cape. Long
boots of white kid, blue trousers, am astra-
khan-bordered cap and many decorations com-
pleted her attire. Hindoo, Burmese and Rus-
sian dances were stepped by Madame Nina
Kamper, with violin accompaniment by
Gertrude Healy, and Dorothy Hutchinson
danced in classic style to the music of Grieg
and Brahms played by the Melbourne String
Quartette. Little girls in blue frocks, led
by Madame Dreiheller, gave a German folk-
song and dance, and there was a Norwegian
bridal procession to the strains of am
accordion. Six Greek girls, handsome, young
and of the same height, introduced some of
the measures of their own land. Afternoon
tea was spread on aster-decked tables in the
tennis court. The Best lady and Mrs. Harry
Emmerton, who was accompanied by Mrs.
F. Eggleston and Jean, were in the cosmo-
politan gathering.
Members of the Victoria League put on
their best winter bibs and tuckers and
lunched in the big dining-room of the
- Windsor when
honored guests
at the meal
Avere the Earl
and Countess
of Jersey.
Amongst those
invited to meet
the Jerseys
were L u d
Mayor Smith
and Mrs. J.
Dyer, and
Ma'. and Mrs.
Gabriel Toyne.
The Dowager
Countess of
Jersey, is
president and
one of the
founders of
the league,
and made
many friends
in Australia
when the late Lord Jersey Avas Governor of
N. S. Wales. The Irvine lady, president of the
Vic. branch of the league, who was clothed in
black velvet, gave the young couple welcome.
A bright blue ensemble suit with matching
felt hat was worn by the Countess, who
is pictured here by Broothorn. She was 11
when, as Patricia Richards, she left her
parents’ squattage in N. S. Wales to go to
school in England, and she returns on her
honeymoon tour. Mrs. Dyer’s hydrangea-
blue ensemble had a collar of silver fox and
a feather curled from her felt hat. Mrs.
Toyne (Margaret Rawlings) was in black
and Avhite, with a black hat. The Allen
lady, as senior vice-president, proposed the
toast of “The King.” Of the office-bearers
of the V.L. who gathered about the official
table, where baskets of gorgeous dahlias
made a gloAv of color, were Mrs. Arthur
head of the hospitality committee,
and Mrs. Stanley Addison, hoii. sec.
Mildred, only daughter of the George
Shaws, of Toorak, was plunged into the
social swirl at a dance on Friday evening,
when Janet Johnson, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. A. P. Johnson, also made her debut.
No. 9, in which whole gardens of blossoms
seemed to be grouped, was the rendezvous.
The Earl and Countess of Jersey
were guests, coming on after dinner with
Lieutenant-Governor Irvine and his lady.
The Countess’s gown, of Afrique blue satin,
was close-fitting of bodice and spread to a
flared flounce. She wore diamonds. Mrs.
Shaw extended the greeting hand in deep
sapphire-blue lace, and her daughter’s pretty
frock was of white ninon, flounced of skirt.
She held a posy of pink rosebuds. White
organdie that featured pin-tucks Avas the
choice of Miss Johnson. Mrs. Ernest Pool-
man and her daughter Audrey, who are
connections of the Shaw family, were among
the bidden. Deidre Grantham was in
powder-blue taffetas. Mrs. Johnson sported
a robe of black chiffon velvet. A visitor
from N.S.W. was Patricia Shaw, of Rifle
Downs station, in whose frock Avere mingled
blue satin and filmy lace. Another girl from
the northern State was Joan Wilkinson of
Sydney.
Mr. and Mrs. George Chirnside enter-
tained at Menzies’ as a farewell to their
daughter Mrs. A. M. Pape, who is return-
ing to England. The youthful Earl and
Countess of Jersey and Viscount Monck were
among the guests. Decorations of gladioli,
dahlias and russet- and orange-hued blos-
soms helped to create an air of cheeriness
on a dull, rainy day. Mrs. Chirnside was
beautifully turned out in soft draperies of
black crgpe romaine, contrasted with a leaf-
green felt hat. Mrs. G. Wilder, who is
accompanying Mrs. Pape on her journey,
wore a brown frock with a hat of the same
hue, Mrs. Pape adopting a similar color
scheme. The Countess of Jersey looked
charming in berry-red crepe almonza, a
small matching hat and beige-dyed squirrel
furs. The handled Frank Clarkes, Mr. and
Mrs. Gordon Landale, Major and Mrs.
Leroy Burnham and Mrs. Percy Chirnside
were in the throng.
Mrs. P. W. Nunn gave a card party at
the Grosvenor, Toorak, for her daughter
Betty and Ernest S. Bradley, who are shortly
to be married. Miss Nunn’s black georgette
frock was relieved with cream lace, her hat
being black. Grey georgette and lace was
worn by her mother, who had touches of
tourmaline pink upon her millinery.
The Ministering Children’s League put on
the kettle at the Wentworth to welcome
Mrs. Dyer, who was formerly a member.
Mrs. Fred Scarlett, the president, made a
speech and handed a posy to the guest.
Mrs. F. H. Scarlett and her daughter
Nancy. Mrs. J. H‘. Hewison and Miss Henty
were there.
This is a Broothorn portrait of Mrs.
Sydney Culver, on the stage Maggie Dick-
euson, who
after many
successes as a
dancer in Aus-
tralian shows
had an equally
successful
career in Eng-
1i s h panto-
mimes and
musical come-
dies. She has
retn rned to
Melbourne to
join the staff
of Jennie
Brenan’s danc-
ing school, and
is arranging
the ballets for
the production
of Noel Cow-
ard’s “Bitter
Sweet.”
We’ve been having a cold snap. At Marys-
ville, in the hills, summer holiday-makers
for the first time in the history of the pic-
turesque resort indulged in snowballing, with
a foot of snow to play with. Mt. Juliet, at
Healesville, was white-capped. About a
fortnight ago there were bush-fires raging
around this area. In the city folks shivered
in an Antarctic wind, and held umbrellas
against deluging showers of rain. Radiators
were hurriedly brought into commission, and
raids made on the woodheap and coalbox.
Mrs. J. G. Latham, wife of the Federal
Attorney-General, has been the guest at
many farewell billy-boilings, for she is to
accompany her husband to Geneva. One of
these parties was at the Grosvenor, engi-
neered by the Flete Sewing Circle, of which
Mrs. Latham is president. An Australian-
made leather bag was handed to the guest
of honor by Miss M. E. Lloyd, the vice-
president.
There was a charming old-world air about
the wedding finery chosen by Sylvia, second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Sykes, of
Brighton, when she became Mrs. Maurice
Dowd. She trailed bois-de-rose georgette
with clouds of old lace as veil over the aisle
of Scots’ Church, her bouquet of water-lilies
nicely harmonising. Three bridesmaids were
robed in delphinium-blue georgette, softened
with creamy lace, and their hats were pale
pink. Two little trainbearers and a flower-
girl were apparelled in blue. Guests assem-
bled at No. 9 to offer congratulations.
Another knot-tying at Scots’ kirk on the
same day was that of Phoebe, younger daugh-
ter of the S. P. Thompsons, of Box Hill,
and Dr. James Buchanan. The leading lady,
who dispensed with attendants, wore a simple
and dignified gown of deep ivory satin en-
veloped in a veil and train of tulle that
floated from sprigs of tuberoses. The long
sleeves of her dress were fashioned with
small shoulder puffs The Windsor was the
scene of rejoicings afterwards.
Two ’maids in pale green chiffon with
wreaths of pink blossoms supplied foliage, as
it were, to the sweet-briar rose-pink wedding
gown worn by Lorraine, eldest daughter of
the William Bremners, of Hawthorn, when
she became Mrs. James Leigh Russell. The
veil was of ivory tulle. The bridegroom is
only child of the Percy Russells. of Clive-
den Mansions.
Mrs. M. Kennedy, of East St. Kilda. and
her daughter Mrs. May are due to sail for
England this month.
Tassie’s tune:—
The Aerial Pageant at Brighton aerodrome was
a fine sight. Premier McPhee declared the show open,
and close on 10,(100 people rolled up to watch the
stunts. J. Turner, in a Hawk Moth, won the aerial
derby. Mrs. Jackson did some wonderful trick
flying.
Launceston’s Aero Club held a dance after the
pageant. The cement floor in the hangar was smooth
as glass; model aeroplanes, Chinese lanterns and
flowers made the decorations. Mrs. Ramsay, wife
of the president, wore black-and-red ring velvet.
A big crowd danced or bridged, country folk being
well in evidence. There were some very smart
frocks and a wide variety in evening coats.
The Hobart Shiplovers’ Society had almost a “blue-
water night” when O. Dickson-Gregory gave an
illustrated lecture on ships past and present." The
lantern slides were enlarged and tinted from
photographs taken by the lecturer, and included such
historic clippers as the Thermopylae and the Cutty
Sark. Mr. Gregory has presented the Museum with
a picture of the City of Hobart, which used to ply
between the Speck and the mainland.
Town was bedecked with attractive stalls for
Hospital Day, and nurses and others did some vigorous
collecting. Buttonholes found a good sale, too, and
sent out many a drab-colored coat with a bright spot
of color to relieve it.
In spite of a dry season the gladioli show in
the City Hall was a blaze of beauty. Every year
those flowers increase in charm; H. Fitzgerald’s
chamjiion bloom of “Mrs. S. A. Errey” was marvel-
lous. C. E. Kadcliffe was a bronze-medallist with
a seedling.
The Alliance Francaise bade farewell to two
valuable members at its last reunion: Mdlles.
Golembioski, who, having spent several years in
Hobart, have gone to Noumea.
Mrs. Hilmer Smith paid a visit to her father,
Dr. Sprott, this month. Among other mainlanders
still left in the Speck are the Lester Butlers, with
their small family, who are at Ashfleld, Sandy Bay;
the Selwyn Kings, and the Frank Gummows.
Adelaide’s addition:—
The tenth Movie Ball will be held at the Palais
Royal on Thursday, June 2. During the past nine
years over £2OOO has been raised by the committee
in aid of Adelaide charitable institutions. Mrs.
Eavington Bonython is organising a large ball at
the Palais Royal in aid of the Mothers and Babies’
Association; it will be one of the features of Baby
Week, which starts on April 4. In the same good
cause the Mawson lady is arranging a gala concert
at Australia Hall. William Silver, of the Elder
Conservatorium, is assisting, and other leading artists
will take part.
Knight Henry Newland, with his wife and family,
is leaving for England this week by the Orontes.
Mrs. O. W. Hayward gave a farewell luncheon party
for the lady at the Queen Adelaide Club last week,
and for Mrs. W. M. Hole, who, with her husband,
is returning to England by the same boat.
The Earl and Countess of Jersey motored to
Marble Hill and had luncheon with his Ex. and Lady
Hore-Ruthven when they passed through on the
Strathnaver. In the afternoon they found time to
visit Mrs. John Bonython at Carminnow, Mount
Lofty.
Miss Kilmeny Symon, daughter of knight Josiah
Symon, has returned after an extended stay in
England and Italy.
A novel feature was introduced at the wedding
in the Malvern Methodist Church of the Rev. Lyall
Dixon, Of Aldgate, to Freda, daughter of Mrs. A. H.
Gault and the late Dr. Gault, of Mitcham. Miss
Hilda Gill sang the “Wedding Chant” from the
Chinese, music and translation by Dr. Koo.
Dr. and Mrs. A. M. Cudmore’s younger daughter
Kathleen leaves by the Orontes on a visit to her
sister, Mrs. Rafe Mainwaring, in England.
Miss Hilda Snow is continuing the generous prac-
tice of her late father in throwing open to the
public the beautiful garden at St. Wilfrid’s, Aldgate,
to raise funds for the Free Kindergarten. The
annual garden fete will be held there on April 2.
Westralia’s whack: —
Open-air theatricals are new to Perth. The
setting of Galsworthy’s “Joy” was a triumph of
artistry. The grounds of the Goyne Millers’ home
in Mt. Lawley made a perfect garden theatre. A
grassy terrace banked with rustic trellises and clumps
of monster sunflowers formed a natural stage, while
the “auditorium” was skirted with flower-beds and
shrubberies. A garden wall made realistic with
climbing vines and a tree, from the branches of
which Joy makes her first entry, were the only
artificial props. Joan Good played the name-part.
Mrs. Miller produced the piece and took the rfile
of Beechy. Phil Shappere and Florence Besley were
happily cast as Colonel and Mrs. Hope. As a wind-
up, instead of the usual flowers for the players, the
cast peppered the audience with streamers. Mr. and
Mrs. Miller served some 200 guests wdth coffee
and iced drinks.
Mr. and Mrs. H. Armstrong, of Peppermint Grove,
gave a bridge-and-dance party to celebrate daughter
Dulcie’s 21st milestone. Doubtless Dulcie received
a heap of nice presents, but three days later she
got the thrill of her young life by winning £4OO
for the “Sunday Times” crossword puzzle.
Gallops at Belmont attracted a flock of hopeful
punters. Among country visitors were the Hemstead
couple from Carnarvon, she in red and white floral
patternings and beige millinery. Mrs. Geoff Lynn,
just returned from abroad, displayed a smart black
toilette. Mrs. Unmack topped her floral frock with a
shagbark straw; Betty de Bernales had a gold
stripe threaded through her blue crepe de Chine;
sister Daphne’s suit included a white skirt and a
cedar-brown and white jumper; Sheila Hayes was
in green voile; Mrs. Cummins wore a coat and skirt
of the shade of a downy duckling; Edith Treth-
owan mixed black and white in her suit and hat;
Mrs. Ambrose and Mrs. Gwynne both favored black
garments; Mrs. Hope Robertson had a green-clad
daughter under her wing; Edna Barrie wore white,
and Jessie Meares a pink and white outfit.
Mrs. Blackman and Betty are back from Sydney
and have installed themselves in a Mount-street flat.
The Kylie Club varied its usual custom of drawing
monthly programmes from the works of one par-
ticular nation or composer and presented its members
with a musical afternoon spiced with variety.
Autumn-tinted zinnias and gumleaves made a sturdy
effort to withstand the heat, and the club’s newly-
acquired treasure, a Lipp piano, caused a buzz of
excitement. Evelyn Willis, in amber-tinted voile,
was the day’s star pianiste. Kit Sherlock and Mrs.
Alan Wilson, the former in sea-blue and beige, the
latter in royal-blue chiffons, played a brilliant two-
piano work. Flora Bunning and Mrs. E. H. B.
Lefroy also had a two-piano offering, their choice
being Franck’s difficult “Les Djinns.” Alan Gamble
was male vocalist and Ethel Ewins warbled tune-
fully in wood-nymph ninon. Meg Powell, wearing
buttercup crtpe de Chine, accompanied violinist
brother David.


HOTEL
METRQPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD^ GALLERY"
1
252 Georqe Street.'
S Y D N E. V
See announcement page 13.
RADIO B BATTERIES
U TOUCH REFILLS
A (eiD esSetter' •- • W arS
ITE
The Problem of Friction
The ALEMITE System of Lubrication solves the problem of
friction just as surely as Sherlock Holmes solved the prob-
lem of “The Speckled Band.” - Grit, sand and dirt
in bearings cause friction and friction eventually destroys
the bearings—-repair bills follow. ALEMITE Lubricant ■is
forced (by the Alemite Lubricating System), into the bear-
ing under pressure of 3,000 pounds. Old, worn-out grease,
sand, grit and dirt are forced out, leaving the bearing
clean, perfectly lubricated, and therefore friction free.
See that your car is Alemited every 500 miles and enjoy
... smooth , noiseless driving
ALEMITE CORPORATION, Chicago, U. S. A. * ALMiT^chfcago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd. .... 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd Brisbane
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd. 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd,, 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED 122 Pirie Street,, Adelaide k-AUST-4
LUBRICANTS * SYSTEMS
OF
LUBRICATION
A Temperamental Insurrection.
P. A. DARBYSHIRE’S BRILLIANT
STORY OF A STORM.
IT was one of those days when Yalli felt
like a trained bear led around on a rope;
she said so.
“Bear!” exclaimed Henri, her accom-
panist. husband, and often (to be truthful)
whipping ■ boy. “Bsst!” He went rather
automatically through the business of snap-
ping his fingers and registering scorn, know-
ing she expected it of him.
But she was not in the least mollified.
*'Yes, Unit is what I am —a hear, a trained
animal.” she declared tragically.
“Rubbish !” he said, with a derisive shrug.
•'You iue Yalli the Incomparable, Yalli the
Glorious, the , most famous and wonderful
prima donna that ever existed.”
“I ain a freak which emits sounds that please
people." she said dolefully, taking afresh tack.
“Well, put,it that way if you please, little
cabbage,” lie agreed., “But, ah, such sounds !
Like a string of pearls on a golden..thread. ’
She tossed her head as she did in “Thais.’
“Pearls! Beads on a bit of string.”
“And your G in alt; how do you describe
that?”
“Bellini, too, takes the G in alt.”
“Bellini! That steam whistle! That
woman who has the effrontery to call herself
your rival !” lie threw back his head and
laughed.
“Still, she takes it,” she persisted.
“Do not concern yourself,” lie soothed her.
“Truly, she can scream a G in alt occasion-
ally, but if it were not for that she would
be singing outside opera-houses instead of
in them.”
He knew what worried . her. She was
always a bundle of nerves when due to sing
before a strange audience. Afterwards when
they had acclaimed her, as they always did,
she would be herself again. They had
landed in Sydney two days ago. Three days
hence she was to give her first recital in
the huge Town Hall,
“At rehearsal this morning I was slightly
off the note when I took my G,” she said
mournfully. .
“Not at all,” he said stoutly. “It was im-
peccable, a miracle. It was that fool of a
flautist.”
“Do. you really think .so?” she asked, seiz-
ing at this floating spar.
“I spoke to him afterwards about it,” he
declared. “I - tell you I made him shiver
in the shoes. ‘So you call yourself a flaut-
ist?’ I said, and the fellow quivered. ‘Buy
yourself a tin-whistle; it is all you are fit
to play.’ He was glad to crawl away.”
She visualised Henri’s masterly flaying of
the unhappy flautist, and felt sorry. “I hope
you did not hurt his feelings,” she said.
“His feelings!” he sneered. “Let him
learn to play in tune, and I shall respect his
feelings.”
Nevertheless, he knew he had rather over-
done the castigation of the flautist, a local
artist. But it, was not his fault, indeed no ;
it was this accursed recital which loomed
over them both like a black cloud. His
nerves were as taut as. hers.' .
At this moment there was a tap on the
door. “Enter,” called Valli. imperiously.
Her maid insinuated' herself. “It is a
reporter, Countess,”" she announced. Yalli
had recently been created a countess of some
principality or. other..
The reporter turned out to ,be from the
mighty “Star.” He seated himself and drew
out his notebook.' “What do you think of
our harbor, .Countess?” lie began.
“Where is it?” she asked, nonchalantly.
The young man stared at her; he was
almost as astonished as Henri. The latter
rose to the occasion.
“You will remember, dearest, how you
exclaimed at the glorious view as we entered
the Heads,” he prompted.
She inclined her head graciously. “Ah,
yes. It was indeed beautiful, magnifique.
But those untidy hovels set on the left-hand
side —ugh !”
Mentally, Henri wrung bis bands. Actu-
ally, he laughed lightly. “Ah. but Madame
is droll,” he told the staggered reporter. “She
makes the joke, as always. Ha, ha !”
“But, indeed”— — she began, wrinkling
her forehead.
Henri interrupted her with another short
burst of laughter, slightly hollow. “You see
for yourself it is not for nothing she is
known as the greatest actress the world has
seen as well as the greatest singer,” he
leclared. “No doubt you thought her seri-
ous !” His eyebrows worked furiously at her.
Y r alli was in despair. So she had put
the foot in it again. Henri would be terribly
angry. Feverishly she set to work to
make amends. But obviously she had started
off on the wrong foot, and there was no
doubt the interview went lamely.
Henri escorted the reporter to the door
when he left, saw him to the lift, and eventu-
ally urged him to a little cordial in the bar.
He went, back to the apartment in a vil-
lainous temper, and rather glad of the excuse
for being in one, for he had endured Valli’s
tantrums all the morning. He threw open
the dqor, strode in and slammed it to.
“ ‘Where is it?’ ” he thundered.
“What?” she asked.
“ ‘Where is it?’ ” he thundered again.
“Ah, but you arc an imbecile of imbeciles !
We have been here two days, and all day
long what do we hear but ‘harbor, harbor,
harbor’? And when you are asked your
opinion of it you ask where it is!”
She threw out her hands helplessly. “How
should I know?” she asked plaintively.
“Is it too much to expect a little intelli-
gence of you?” he shouted. “You may as
well have' asked a Frenchman ‘Who is this
Napoleon of whom you speak? Why did
you not go the whole,hog and tell him we
have only, come to Australia because it is the
off-season elsewhere and the money is good?”
Womanlike she sensed the underlying
cause of his tirade. It was this matter of
sflli. Well, he should not play soli at her
recitals; she was more determined of it
than ever. Lately she had been inclined to
relent, but now She steeled herself.
“You think if you abase me sufficiently I
shall agree to your playing soli,” she accused
him, “but you ■ shall not.”
“And why not?” he snapped.
“Because you are not good enough.
“Not good enough? You: mean you are
afraid lest I . should receive more applause
than you.”
“Applause !” she laughed. . “The, audience
would laugh.”
“Laugh !” It was too much.
“Yes. In any case do not let us go into
this again, I beg of you. My audiences
come to hear me sing, not to hear you tink-
ling at the piano.”
“Tinkling!” He hissed the word.
“Well, perhaps thumping would describe
it better.” Her laugh ran up to F natural
and threw him into a rage. He. glared at her.
“How they will bellow, then, on Satur-
day night when they hear you sing your
famous G off the key !” That relieved him
a little.
“Off the key? But you said yourself the
flautist”——
He shrugged his shoulders, and felt almost
calm again.
“I said that to save your feelings. Un-
doubtedly you were flat.”
“Flat!” she, cried in top B. Her slender
bosom heaved.
She strode to the piano and thumped out
a quick succession of G’s in alt. Then,
standing erect, she commenced a couple of
octaves below the note, and ran lightly up
to a triumphant G.
“There !” she said with a shake of the head.
“Flat.” he sniffed.
“No !” she cried.
“As a pancake,” he added for good measure.
“And you say that to me?” She beat her
breast. ‘ “Me? Of whom a hundred, a
thousand critics have said I have never
sung an untrue note.”
“Yes, that is true, my love,” he agreed
sardonically, “but they have not said it
lately.”
“St. Galant said it only last month."
“St. Galant!” he jeered. “That amiable
old fool. Besides, you praised his daugh-
ter’s voice.”
“Oh, but you are hateful, hateful,” she
spat at him. “And all because you cannot
have your own way and make a laughing
stock of us both.”
She worked herself into a frenzy, enjoy-
ing herself tremendously, as was he. They
loved such scenes.
“I tell you this, then,” she cried. “Not
only shall you not strum out your soli, but
you shall never play for me again—I swear
it. I shall engage another accompanist and
at once.”
“Engage him,” lie said indifferently.
“Already I feel sorry for him, poor wretch!”
“I shall,” she flamed.
“As you please,” he retorted, and left
the room feeling he had scored well enough.
Outside, in the corridor, he decided lie
would see the flautist and soothe his ruffled
feelings. Certainly the fellow had sharp-
ened the note a little, but he was not the
first to feel nervous when playing for the
incomparable Valli; it was, in its way, a
tribute. He would go at once, he determined,
and rang for the lift.
The fierce storm that had just raged left
little impression on him. It was nothing,
forgotten as soon as over. It was the
temperament, that was all, and the letting
off of a little steam was gratifying to the
nerves, calming. . Always they both felt
ever so much the better for it.
The only barb that stuck was the word
“tinkling.”’ Although he was scarcely con-
scious of it, it bred a germ in- his. brain
which grew rapidly until it made him do
what he did.
When lie married Valli ten years before,
at the age of twenty-five, he was only a
promising young pianist, but she had defi-
nitely “arrived,” although a year younger,
and had joined the ranks of the stars. He
had been forced to submerge his identity in
hers. He was merely her accompanist—-
a necessary person, no doubt, but as easily
replaced as the piano on which he played.
Although he knew his art had ripened now
to a fine maturity, he could not convince
her of it. He had a passionate longing to
play pianoforte soli at her recitals, but she
would not allow him, although many pitched
battles had been fought on the subject.
In the apartment Valli sat down to write
to their beloved children, who were at school
in France. Anger left her almost as quickly
as the turning of the switch puts out the light.
She wrote quickly, commencing, in her
usual strain:
Dear Babies, —Papa and Mama are always think-
ing of their darlings now so far from them....
Flat. The word bubbled up to her con-
scious mind. At first she disregarded it,
but at last she threw down her pen and
went to the piano, on which she struck the
G again.
She ran lightly up the scale —and then
it happened. She could not believe her ears.
She tried again—and once more it hap-
pened. Ever careful of her voice, she rested
a little before she tried once more. But
again—she clasped her hands and smiled
beatifieally!
“So I am flat on the G, am I, my friend?”
she asked, addressing the door. “I am flat
on the G. So?”
She emitted a sound which in a lesser
person might be described as a chuckle.
* * * «
Saturday rushed towards them.
Eight o’clock on that eventful evening
found them in the artists’-room in the Town
Hall. Valli reclined in an easy chair and
endeavored to feel composed, but Henri
paced up and down the room agitatedly.
Determined as he was on his project, he
was yet fearful of the consequences.
They did not speak, but occasionally ex-
changed a nervous smile in which there was
something secret, for each had the thought.
“There lurks a surprise for you, my dear!”
Came at length a rap on the door which
halted Henri in mid-air, so to speak, and
made Valli start.
“Are you ready, M’sieur?” came the voice
of Wren, their concert manager.
“In a moment,” answered Henri fever-
ishly.
Yalli rose and embraced him.
“Good luck,” he murmured.
“Listen, Henri,” she whispered. To-
night I shall do the aria in A.”
He blanched, knowing the significance of
it. “Not in A?” he begged; the blow was
staggering.
“Indeed,” she said sadly. “I have known
since Wednesday when you told me my G
had gone flat that henceforth I must sing
it in A,”
“Good. God!” he cried, and stumbled from
the room. • .
Her G —that peerless note—had left her,
perhaps never to return! It was a calamity.
In the aria from Meroux’s “Les Trois
Etrangers,” which she always sang in the
key of G, her penultimate note was a long
trill on I) in alt, from which she rose to a
thrilling G. That she was to sing it hence-
forth in A meant she could'no longer take
that note, but would trill on. E in alt, drop-
ping—dropping, ah, the tragedy of it! —to
the lower A. Her audiences expected pheno-
menal notes from her as well as phenomenal
singing. Once she lost the former it bight,
well mean the loss of her eminence in the
world of song, for always there are others
clamoring at. the door. He knew* only too
well how easily the light may be snuffed
out once it has flickered. And Bellini, that
impostor, how she would crow! Almost he
wept.
He mounted the steps of the platform in
a daze, his resolution all but gone. Stand-
ing at the piano, as he had been instructed,
lie played the English national anthem with
a brooding solemness that hushed the buzz-
ing audience.
When the echoes of the last chord had
died away, he dropped into the stool as if
the tragedy had crushed him.
He had ‘ intended •to dash into Chopin’s
“Butterfly Etude,” with its, tremendous con-
trapuntal difficulties, but instead his fingers
unconsciously shaped themselves for the
opening chord of Beethoven’s “Pathetique
Sonata.” After the first few crashing,
pregnant chords, the audience was raptly
silent. It ceased to wonder why this item
was not mentioned on the programme and
gave him its thrilled attention. He swept
through the allegro movements with a fierce
passion that carried them with him to
stormy heights and set the blood in their
veins ’ tingling. The brief, grave passages
he played with an infinite softness, as if
the heart wept. But in the rondo his
mood changed. He straightened himself. It
was as if his doleful mood had spent itself
and he was eager to be gay. There was
hope ; the world was not all sorrow. What
if Yalli’s glory was dimmed? What if she
never sang another note. There were other
joys in the world. They had, thank Heaven,
an ample fortune on which they could re-
tire. They would buy a villa near the sea.
somewhere on the sands, on which they would
lie and dream in the golden sun. They
could have the children with them then, and
there would be no more of this tiresome
trouping about the globe, staying here a
day and there a week, with no home life,
no chance of real communion. What, after
all, was a career? They had tasted fame,
and how many could boast as much.! If
he worked hard at his art, who was to
say to what heights he might not rise? As
he had gloried in Leonie, so might she
glory in him!
It was with a magnificent feeling of
triumph, a snapping of the fingers at Fate,
that he brought the sonata to a close.
His audience paid him the tribute of a
long silence before it smashed out its
applause. The force of it was such that
it seemed to sway him on his feet as he
bowed again and yet again.
At the foot of the steps he found Leonie
awaiting him; they embraced.
“You are wonderful, Henri,” she sighed;
“wonderful! I did not realise the strides
you had made.”
He regarded her tenderly. “I played for
you, Leonie,” he said; “for you alone.”
“I felt it,” she told him fondly.
“Do not grieve, darling,” he continued.
“You may yet recover it, but even if you
never do”——
“Recover what?” she asked.
“Your high G.”
“Oh, that ?” She laughed; she had for-
gotten about it. “Take your encore and
when you come back I shall tell you some-
thing.”
He went back to the piano with a lighter
heart, and gave such a brilliant render-
ing of the “Butterfly” that even after six
recalls his audience still clamored for more.
What she told him was staggering; he
was at once elated and alarmed.
“Are you sure?” he asked anxiously. “Do
not risk it unless you are.”
“I am confident,” she assured him. “You
shall hear.”
Nevertheless, he was on tenterhooks
throughout the aria until after the trill on
E she leaped to a phenomenal A in alt—
a true, sweet, altogether amazing A.
And the storm of applause he had re-
ceived was as nothing to the cyclone that
followed the note.
When they were in the artists’ room and
there was a comparative lull he spoke to her.
“Dearest,” he said, “I was wrong. I
am not fit to play soli, nor even to accom-
pany you. You are superb.” He felt
utterly crushed and humbled, and amazed
that his conceit should have urged him to
vie with her. .
“No, no,” she protested. “It is I who
have been wrong. I have been petty, paltry.
You must, you shall play; we shall see
Wren about it at once. Have you not
proved your right to it?”v.
He trembled with joy., ,
“I must sing again, • or • they will tear
the place down,” she went on. “But they
shall not have that aria again—I must be
sparing with those A’s. Play, whatever you
please for my encore so'long as it is light,
and short.” ; ■, \


Wonderful Books for Every Man & WomarrPosted Right to Your Door
New Art Pictures.
16 exquisite Reproductions of Beautiful Un-
draped Photographs of the World’s Loveliest
Girls and Models. The pictures are 12in. x
10in., and are enclosed in a Handsome Port-
folio, which can be untied so that each picture
can be framed for your private den. Nothing
so beautiful has ever been sold. You get tin
whole 16 pictures with calendar for 1932 care-
fully packed in heavy cardboard so that they
will not be damaged in transit. Price, 5/-.
We pay postage.
Norman Lindsay’s Pen Pictures.
Remarkable collection of Lindsay’s pictures,
5/6, including postage.
Norman Lindsay “ART IN
AUSTRALIA” Edition.
Worth £2/2/-, only TO/- a -copy.
Furniture Making
Contains over 1000 illustrations, and tells how
to make 170 different pieces of furniture.
Every handy carpenter should have this rnar-
vellous book. Price, 16/-. 1 nciude^postage 1 _
Book of Etiquette.
Don’t be a fool and ruin your life. This book
tells you what to do on all occasions. Indis-
pensable for men and girls climbing life’s social
ladder. Price, 51- Includes postage. . -
Speeches for AH Occasions
Know what to sav at the right time. This
book is the tied-tongue man’s guide. Price, 3/- :
Golden Passion.
Ry Juanita Savage. Th>- most thrilling and
absorbing story of love and passion ever
penned. Popular edition, 5/-, Includes postage.
Censored Limericks and Rhymes
The lark of the* year' Will make even a glass-
eye spark. Price, 2/-. We pay postage.
Dope, by Sax Romer.
A vivid story of the Chinese underworld in
London and the curse of the cocaine traffic.
Stark realism. Price, 4/-, We pay postage.'
A Maid and a Million Men.
We beg to inform our clients that we are
unable to supply this book, but that “War,
Wine and Women” is just one hundred per
cent, better. It makes the “maid” read like
a Sunday-school story.
War, Wine and Women,
By Wilfred St. Maude. 555 pages of life
in Paris arid on the Western Front. There’s
a kick like a cocktail in this never-to-be-
forgotten epic. Weighs. 2 pounds. Price 15/-
Wc pay postage. ;
The Red Knight of Germany.
By Floyd Gibbons.
The vivid story of each of those fights to the
death that often took place high up in the
blue, a mile from the earth. Strange contrast
to this, from Richthofen’s letters to his mother
he has drawn a picture of the kindly side of
the- warrior’s nature. His book is. a breathless
narrative of daring and heroism that places
its hero on a rank with the knights«of
chivalry. - It is an epic that starts with a
simple combat in the sultry days of 1916
and ends with the supreme moment when,
riddled with bullets, the German' hero fell
between flaming lines of battle near Amiens.
Price. 6/-. Postage, 4d. ' , .
Decadence, by Maxim Gorky.
Real Russia stripped bare in the master trans-
lation. that will thrill you through and through.
Price. 6/-. Postage. 4d, ,
88 Short Stories, by Guy de
Maupassant.
The most wonderful selection of French yarns
ever published in one book. Price 15/-. In-
cludes postage.
SALOME.
Illustrated by Beardsley. Oscar Wilde’s one
outstanding heritage of almost fiendish emo-
tion. All the power of paganism beats and
throbs against the ascetic heart of Early
Christianity.
Tlie beautiful, voluptuous, dancer-of-the-seven
veils falls in love with the prophet John. Love
means only one thing to her —embraces, ardent
kisses, the fulfilment of her sexual destiny.
She has learned her terrible power from the
eyes of the men who watched her dance. But
her wiles are powerless against the hian of
Faith. He repulses her, and heaps calumny
upon both Salome and her mother.
How the proud, and haughty dancer achieves
her desire to kiss the prophet’s lips ; how she
wields her seductive grace to this one end —
revenge for the holy man’s insults—-makes this
book the most entertaining and fascinating
drama of human emotions —unbridled and un-
restrained. The story of a fiendish impulse
which prompted the wicked mind of a cour-
tesan to revenge herself. Price, .3/6. We pay
postage.
New Zealand readers send N.Z. Postal Notes only with orders.
“LOVE,” by Elinor Glyn
Elinor Glyn, famous author of “Three Weeks,” has written an amazing book
that should be read by every man and' woman—married or single. ‘"Elinor
Glyn on Love” is not a novel—it is a penetrating searchlight fearlessly turned
on the most intimate relations of men and women.
LOVE’S VITAL PROBLEMS SOLVED.
In “Eove,” Elinor Glyn courageously solves
the most vital problems of love and marriage.
She xilaces a magnifying-glass unfiinchingly
on the relations of men and women. No
detail, no matter how avoided by others, is
spared. She warns you gravely, she suggests
wisely, she explains fully.
“Eove” is one of the frankest books ever
written. It had to be. A book of this type,
to be of real value, could not mince words.
Every problem had to be faced with utter
honesty, deep sincerity and resolute courage.
Hut while Elinor Glyn calls a spade a spade—
while she deals with strong emotions and
passions in her frank, fearless manner—she
nevertheless handles her subject so tenderly
and sacredly that the book can safely be
read by any man or woman.
In fact, anyone over eighteen should,, be COM-
PELLED to read “Love”; for, while igno-
rance may sometimes be bliss, it is folly of
the most dangerous sort to be ignorant of the
problems of love and marriage. As one
mother wrote us: “I wish I had read this
book when I was a young girl—it would have
saved me a lot of misery and suffering.”
GET “LOVE” TO-DAY.
Send a 3/6 Postal Note to the London Book
Co., Ltd.., Box 38, G.P.0., Sydney, and you
will not only receive a copy of “Love” by
return mail, but a copy also of Health and
Beauty Secrets.
Please mention “The Bulletin” when ordering.
NOW OBTAINABLE AT LAST—THE GREAT BOOK OF
SEX KNOWLEDGE FOR MEN AND WOMEN.
“SAFE COUNSEL”
By Prof. Jeffries, M.D., Ph.D.; Prof. A. L. Nichols, A.M.; Dr. Emma F. A. Drake,
M.D., Ph.D.; and Zora S. Davis, Ph.D.
And have it Posted right to your very door for £1
Must every woman pay the- price of a moment's happiness in bitter tears and years of regret ? Must
millions of homes be ruined —lovers and sweethearts driven apart—marriages totter to the brink of divorce —
the sacred joys of sex relations be denied? YES—just as long as men and women remain ignorant of the
simple facts of life.
An Unpardonable Sin is total ignorance of the most important subject in the life of every man and woman
—SEX.
AWAY WITH FALSE MODESTY!
Let us face the facts of -sex fearlessly and frankly, sincerely and scientifically. Let us tear the veil of
shame and mystery from sex and build the future of the race on a new knowledge of all the facts of
sex as they are laid bare in plain, daring but wholesome words and frank pictures in this huge new library
of Sex COUNSEL.”
HUigmilTfl
100 ILLUSTRATIONS .
LD KNOW
m
How to preserve
youth—Warding off
other women —Keep-
ing yourself attractive
—Why husbands tire
of wives—Dreadful
diseases due to ignor-
ance Diseases of
women—Diseases of
children Family
health guide
Change of life; hygiene Why children die
young—lnherited traits and diseases—
What will you tell your growing girl—
Hundreds of valuable remedies.
Secrets for Men
Mistakes of early
marriages Secrets
of fascination—How
to make women love
y o u—Bringing up
healthy children—
Nursing and weaning
—Fevers and con-
tag io u s diseases
—A ccide n t s and
emergencies
!
ir
—Hygiene in the home How to care for
invalids —Limitation of offspring—Warn-
ing to young men—Dangerous diseases —
Hygienic precautions • Anatomy and
physiology —The reproductive organs—
Education of the family.
GIRLS, PONT MARRY BEFORE YOU KNOW THIS.
Beauty diets and baths —Do you know:
How to attract desirable men?—How to
manage men?—How to know if he loves
you? How to acquire bodily grace and
beauty ?—How to beautify face, hands, hair,
teeth and feet?—How to acquire charm?
—How to dress attractively ?—lntimate per-
sonal hygiene?—How to pick a husband?
SEND £1 FOR A COPY OF “SAFE COUNSEL” TO-DAY.
Use this form, or if averse to cutting the paper, mention The Bri.i.KTO?’. when writing.
Enclosed please .find £1 (one
pound), for which please send me
one copy “Safe Counsel” by return
mail.
N.Z. Readers send £1 N.Z. Bank
Note.
ẃ
ẅ
ALL THE ABOVE
ONLY OBTAINABLE
All orders sent by Return Mail.
LONDON BOOK CO.
REGISTERED OFFICE: 228 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
PERMANENT POSTAL ADDRESS :
BOX 38, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Send postal notes or cheques.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
■ to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
, Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/»
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
w
ŵ
0°
e *0
o
r
i) o **
• v a i
* ‘‘ &6 Ua^


A
\
Whence Scotland s Vigour Springs
4 'Putting the Shot
D E WAR'S
SCOTCH WHISKY
