

t
d
ďf
d
fd
ď
MORE
Cigarette
The extra cigarette in every 1/6 tin of
Country Life's means tins and tins of
additional cigarettes in a year’s smoking
at no added cost! And better cigarettes!
Better Tobacco (the finest Virginian)!
Better made! Better Packed I
Made in Your Own Country at the Garden
Factory- Raleigh Park - by
Wa D. & He O. Wills (Aust.) Ltd.
Country Life
better CICARETTES \4-V-
And in Tina
of 50,100 and
150. Also 50s
Round Air-
tight Tins.
The Bulletin
Oka ‘— asiUsl MuxJ- dfayd?—Ps
Vol. 53.—N0. 2731.
Wednesday, June 15, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for .Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"pHE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn ft * * 1 -
fredanceJoumabm
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. j
My Name
Mr Address „ ']
S.B. 132
U_YSAGHIT
o
B
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron. '
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
fe
The World’s Gayest Book.
THE FRENCH PICTORIAL NUMBER.
“THE MUSTARD POT”
Twice the size of “The Mustard Pot Annual’/ and a
hundred times better. Eighty pages of Pictures with
a Punch, Jolly Jokes, Jovial Jests, Verse and Short
Snappy Stories. This issue will make even a glass eye
sparkle. Punch. Pep and Pictures and lots and lots of
Art Photos of Lovely Girls.
Only 1/- at all BooKttaUs; or send 1/2 in stamps and
a copy will he sent by return mail in plain cover and
securely wrapped. Don’t delay, send to-day.
“SINS OF SOCIETY”
It is a powerful plea for tearing away the veil of mystery
that has so universally shrouded this subject of the penalty
of sexual immorality. It is a plea for light on this hidden
danger, that fathers and mothers, young men and young
women may know the terrible price that must be paid, not
only by the generation that violates the law, but by the
generations to come. Price 2/6. We pay postage.
All Orders Posted, by Return Mail.
LONDON BOOK CO., LTD.,
Permanent Postal Address:
Box 38, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Or
W
_3
IP
T
Mothers!
You cannot be too careful
when selecting a soap for daily
use on baby.
Cufictira Soap
is pure, gentle and delicately
medicated, ideal for keeping ten-
der, sensitive skins clear and
healthy, free from rashes and
irritations.
Price 1/-. Sample free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established ISSJ h
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space. -
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ ••specialised 'effort in
supplying the needs of 117;000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, JCI.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
*"*■ should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,'’ 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
495-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
—
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” ia re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high peifcent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements, than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
IF
you desire to reach that section of
the N.Z. public that moulds the buy-
ing habits of the rest;
IF
you have a message for New Zealand-
ers who have more money to spend
on more commodities than the many;
!F
your goal is a market with the maxi-
mum capacity to respond to your
advertising efforts, then, cover the
Wellington Province, the highest in
spending power, by using the moat
effective medium,
the Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
World Crisis
The depression is the commonest topic
of conversation all over the world to-day
for the best of reasons, Mr. S. M. Bruce
said, after his last trip to England, “Unless
commodity prices rise we are all ruined”
—another way of saying we are all ruined
unless the depression lifts. The U.S.A., with
thousands of once-flourishing farms and fac-
tories ise, and 12,000,000 unemployed, is
feeling the breeze worst; and one of its
star journalists went to Europe recently to
try to find out what was happening to
the nation’s markets. His conclusions are
embodied in the first of the boohs reviewed
below. The other describes the career and
character of the man on whom the success
or failure of the Five-year Plan chiefly
depends. If he goes the way of all dic-
tators, and goes soon, commodity prices
will rise, though boom prices aren’t likely
to be enjoyed again by this generation.
If he lasts for two or three years more
But read these books and draw your own
deductions. They provide, between them,
explanations of nearly all the problems that,
are troubling modern civilisation.
Europe Facing the Plan
H. R. Knickerbocker, author of Soviet
Trade and World Depression (Bodley
Head; 7s. 6d.), had written the most
authoritative and best-documented of all
the works about the Five-year Plan which
have appeared in English when he returned
to Europe last year. He avoided Russia
this time, and concentrated on the eleven
European countries which are, in his phrase,
“doing business with the largest department
store on earth; the Soviet Union Foreign
Trade Monopoly, which is conducting the
greatest permanent bargain sale in history.”
He began with the Milan Fair. He found
“in the home of spaghetti 14 varieties of
Russian macaroni—fresh, toothsome, un-
ashamed.” In other Soviet booths were
“the biggest sales organisations in the
world, ready to furnish anything from worm
medicine for overfed lapdogs to marble
gravestones and linen doilies, ready to meet
and cut anybody’s price from cotton to
coal.” He knows Russia better than most
Russians; and the spectacle of the luxury
foodstuffs—the patties of fish liver, the
smoked delicacies, the refrigerators laden
with every sort of caviare—made him
wonder what a Russian worker would think
if he could be suddenly transported from his
dry grits and black bread to this glorious
food department. For the Russian worker
is doing it all—on his belly. At this fair
were four kinds of flour for white bread—
and “white bread was last seen in Russia in
1928.” There was “material for every sort
of nutriment from French pastry to mast
for swine”—and in Dnepropetrovsk, the
previous autumn, he had been unable to
buy sugar! The Soviet product is never
less than 25 p.c. cheaper than the cheapest
European. At Genoa he interviewed a
lumber-broker:—
On BB plywood the Russians quote from £6 11s.
Bd. to £7 19s. Bd. per cubic metre against Baltic
countries’ quotations of from £9 2s. 7d. to £lO
11s. 7d.
And the Russian prices carry a flat dis-
count of 4 p.c., plus 3 p.c. cash discount,
while Baltic prices are net. He went to
Sweden and discovered what the Soviet Oil
Com pant’ (whose employees in Russia are
paid less than natives in Ceylon planta-
tions) is doing to the oil companies of
Europe and to his native land:—
' In 1926 gasoline here was Is. 7jd. a ga110n....
to-day with rebates of one kind and another, con-
sumers are getting gasoline as cheap as 7 pi. a
gallon.
And if that doesn’t secure the market the
Russian toiler will be directed to take his
belt in another hole, and bring the price
to 6d. He found England fully awake to
what was happening; but there is no senti-
ment in business, so “hackled flax is coming
to Britain at 40 p.c. less than the local price;
600,000 Soviet-made wooden doors will be
imported this year at 25 to 30 p.c. below the
Swedish price; 500 tons of Russian candy
have been imported at £52 ss. lOd. a ton as
against the British price of £75 a ton.” It is
the same with wheat (“Britain absorbed a
third of all Russian wheat exports in 1930”),
furs, glues, malt extract (“at one-half the
British production price”), pit props, fruit
pulp, etc.
He concludes that “in a period when
foreign trade of all non-Soviet countries is
falling rapidly, Soviet foreign trade is in-
creasing by leaps and bounds.” On the one
hand, there is the chance that Europe “may
form an economic bloc to boycott the
Soviet Union”; on
the other, that the
Russian workers
may refuse to be
used indefinitely as
farm- and factory-
fodder.
The Sold of Bolshevism
The translation from the German of
Essad-Bey’s Stalin (Bodley Head; 155.) has
been supremely well done by Huntley
Paterson. There isn’t an awkward phrase
or a word that jars in the 386 pages. The
author and Stalin were fellow-revolution-
aries as youths. Stalin’s father was a
Georgian cobbler. After embracing the
Bolshevik creed he became- a bandit. He
didn’t w y ant the money for himself. His
tastes were simple, as they still are, and
he was scrupulously honest according
to his lights. Everything he stole went to
the party funds. His raids have become
legendary. One was responsible for the
destruction of 50 pepple. He cut his
enemies’ throats, bombed, shot, strangled
and stabbed them with the unconcern of
the Asiatic savage, which he is, on one
side of his nature, to this day. Lenin appreci-
ated his qualities, and made him general
secretary of the party, though with some
reluctance. “This chef will cook us bitter
dishes,” he prophesied. When Lenin fell
ill, the question of the succession became
acute. Trotsky was no match for the
accomplished conspirator who, in and out
of gaol, had been plotting the downfall of
others for quarter of a century; and he
was lucky to escape with his life. Officially
Stalin only occupies a position analogous to
that of N.S.W.’s J. T. Lang:—
But in practice to be master of the Communist
party is synonymous with being master of Russia.
As chief of the Political Bureau of the Communist
party Stalin is able, if he wishes, to change the
occupant of any- Government post.
This illiterate 50-year-old Georgian, who
can’t speak Russian without making mis-
takes, who never -wishes to leave Russia,
who has dependants instead of friends, and
to whom any kind of social life is abhor-
rent, resembles the N. S. Wales Labor
leader in other respects. He has only one
slogan—Communism.
He contrives with enormous vigor and consistency 1
to hammer his simple reasoning into the thick ,
skulls of the masses. And in achieving this end the
energy of his intonation and his, resolute gestures I
do more than the meaning of his words. To him
alone belongs power, and he shares it with no one,
not even with his closest comrade-in-arms.
What are his attributes? He believes
whole-heartedly in his faith, which is that
the whole world can be made' to accept
Bolshevism—if only, in the last resort, by
the sword. His physical strength is tre-
mendous, and he can work 16 hours a da3’
for weeks on end. He has a will of iron,
and knows no fear. He is the hardest man
in Russia to kill because he suspects almost
everybody. He is not great as Lenin was,
having no capacity for original thought; but,
according to his biographer, who has seen
him in all lights—in battle; being torn
unmurmuringly to ribbons by the whips
of soldiers; in debate, and in his home—
he is better adapted to rule Russia at the
present juncture. He is the average fanati-
cal one-idead Russian, raised in brain and
energy to the nth degree—a Red Jenghiz
Khan. Essad-Bey considers it “a mystery
that a nation should still be able to survive
this terrible condition of strain”—namely,
the Five-year Plan—“without going mad or
driving out its leaders.” But he evidently
believes that, having stood so much, the
Russian workers will stand more, and that
if Stalin lives to keep them up to the collar
the plan will succeed. If he goes all goes;
he has been careful to arrange that he shall
have no successor.
RED PAGE.
Sterilisation of the Fit
William Nichols Marcy, author of
Reminiscences of a Schoolboy (Elkin
Mathews; 6s. net), is known as the most
successful “crammer” in England. The work
has a supplement by I. M. B. Stuart, who
before joining up with Mr. Marcy “was
one of the outstanding younger public-
schoolmasters.” The pair provide a queer
picture of English public-school fife. In
fact, to anybody who holds that life is
something to be lived and the mind some-
thing to be developed, their book seems
to breathe the atmosphere of a madhouse.
According to Mr. Stuart, the aim of a good
education is “to make it possible for a
boy to pick up shorthand, book-keeping,
etc., quickly with a brain prepared and
developed by Latin, Greek and geometry.”
(The italics are Mr. Stuart’s.) To obtain
this result, “for three months on end, boys
are never allowed to relax, and are in the
school atmosphere throughout the whole
time.” The masters, be it said, are equally
martyrs to the system. “A master who
(Red Page continued on page 5 .)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—PIain Facts, Open Dealing.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
LESSEN LABOUR at LOST!
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FARMING IMPLEMENTS
Reliable Makes , Lou) in Price
i THOUSANDS OF -USERS RECOMMEND THESE
UNI” MODELS
d
Corn She Her
“Uni” Sheller, made by Anthony
Hordern and Sons. Capacity, 20
bushels per hour. Strongly con-
structed wood frame, first quality
castings throughout, shaker sieve;
the handiest size for the small
maize grower.
Price
£6/15/-
£
No. 1 Chaff Cutter
No. 1 “Uni” Chaff Cutter, made by-
Anthony Horderns’, with
mouth, cuts two lengths, iin, and
Sturdily built on three steel
legs.
Price
£6/10/-
£
L#U
a
No! 2 Chaff Cutter
No. 2 “Uni” Hand Chaff Cutter,
made by Anthony Hordern and
Sons. Rising mouth, 7fin. wide.
Capacity, scwt. per hour. Floor
space, 6ft. x 3ft. 6in. Cuts two
lengths, 1 in. and iin. Weight, p Q
2cwt. Price
(Department —Fourth Floor)
ď
f
d
ď
fd
“OXD” One Horse
“OXD M One-horse Plough, Furrows
7 to 8 inches deep and wide. Com-
plete with clevis and land wheel.
Weight 1 1 61b.
Price
£7/15/6
Two-horse Plough. Similar to above,
but of larger and heavier build.
Weight 1641b, ntMl E* /
ď
“AUSTRAL” One Horse
“Austral” One-horse Plough. Sturdily built.
Weighs only 701 b,, and cuts a furrow 7in. in
depth and width. We are continually receiv-
ing gppd reports of this plough from all over
the State. Complete with clevis and
land wheel. Price *
£5
nuine
PLANET JR.” Hoe and Cultivator
A Real Time-saver
■ ts
No, 8 Horse Hoe and Cultivator Combined, The
Planet Jr. No. 8 Horse Hoe and Cultivator is one of
the most valuable time and labor saving tools available
for the use of the farmer. Has a steel wheel does
not clog; a frame that js longer and higher than others;
steel standards that are so attached as to both brace
the cultivator and withstand strain; levers that operate
quickly and easily; a depth regulator. Equipment in-
cludes four 3x8 inch cultivator steels, one 4x8 inch
cultivator steel, two 6in, hillers, one 7in. shovel, all
long
especially hardened; will
service. Price ‘
give
£6/2/6
No. 7 Horse Hoe and Cultivator, similar
without depth gauge. Price ...........
to No. 8,
. £5/12/6
f
FORGES, ANVILS AND VYCES
d
“BUFFALO”
Portable Forge.
Buffalo Portable Forge, with
geared Hand Blower. Gears,
fan case, fire pan, standard
and legs are detachable.
Simple gearing running in oil,
in a dustproof case. A deep
fire pan (6in.) and strong
blast fit it especially for rivet
heating. Size of fire pan,
1 Bin.; height to top of fire pan,
32in.; 44in. over all: diameter
of fan case,
12in. Price
£ll/15/-
ď
ANVILS
Peter Wright’s First-quality
Anvi’, 9d. lb., 1123 b. and
over.
All Steel “Nash” Brand
Anvil.
Under 501 b. Each , . 42/6
501 b. to 701 b. Per lb., 9d.
711 b. upwards. Per lb., Bd.
VYCES,
42/6
Blacksmiths’ Leg Vyces.
3-|in. jaw, up to 451 b.,
42/6 ea.
4in. jaw, average 561 b.,
9d. lb.
jaw, average 601 b.,
9d. lb.
sin. jaw, average 761 b.,
9d. lb.
6in. jaw, average 1 101 b.,
9d. lb.
f
“RAPID” Forge
A First-class Portable Forge. Machine-
cut gear-wheels of 40 to 1 ratio, 7-l6in.
.wide; fan case gives a powerful
blast. Legs are strong, and the forge is
altogether a sturdy, compact production,
and unusually good value for the money.
Fire pans made of 1 6-gauge iron,
18in. square, 30in. deep.
Price
£3/7/6
( A (irieultural —Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs Only.)
Anthony Horderns'
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
‘Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.


ABSOLUTELY
an,
cL
Dependable,
The "FISK" SERIES
RADIOLA
E
The attractive walnut cab- |
inet is of distinctly modern
design with a beautiful
hand-rubbed finish.
The Radiola 55E uses six
| valves including rectifier.
At every stage in the manufacture and testing of
the Radiola particular attention is paid to making
it absolutely impossible to receive an electric shock.
The Radiola fully complies with the requirements
of the Standards Association of Australia regarding
safety as an electrical unit.
The Radiola 55E gives interstate reception without
aerial or earth, while interference and noise have
been entirely eliminated. The station you want
can he tuned in in a few seconds without
overlapping.
Fidelity of tone is retained uniformly throughout
the entire frequency rangje, while undistorted
volume has been developed far beyond the usual
standards.
i
Never before in its eighteen years of leadership
has Amalgamated Wireless; offered such superlative
performance and value in, radio as in the Radiola
55E. It is everywhere acclaimed as Australia’s
finest broadcast receiver. This remarkable Radiola,
equipped with Radiotrons, is priced at £37/10/-.
Easy terms available.
NO AERIAL REQUIRED
See the Radiola at your nearest Radiola
Dealer. Hear its wonderful per-
formance . . . see its beautiful
appearance and high quality and you
will be convinced of its amazing value.
d
AA D I O LA
PRODUCT OF AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.


FOLLOW THE SUN
J
P]
A delightful sea
trip to the Tropi-
cal North through
the Barrier Reef
By Interstate
Passenger Liner.
TheldealWinterTour
BY SEA to
CAIRNS
NORTH QUEENSLAND
Smooth Seas —Sunny Skies —to Tropical
Charms.
BOOK YOUR PASSAGE BY
Manunda, Canberra, Katoomba, Ormiston.
VISIT MAGNETIC ISLAND, PALM ISLAND AND THE
BARRON FALLS.
Round Trip from Melbourne —26 days.
Round Trip from Sydney—l 9 days.
Full particulars and pamphlet from —
A.U.S.N. CO., LTD. AU Ports *
McILWRAITH McEACHARN, LTD. . . „
HOWARD SMITH LTD. • • »
ADELAIDE S. CO., LTD » ”
conscientiously tries to work at full pres-
sure, period after period, and day after day,
throughout a long term comes to the last
week as a runner comes to the last hun-
dred yards of a hard mile race.” Never-
theless, there are perks for the masters, if
not for their pupils. Not only can they
point, as a Red Indian might to his scalps,
to the passes, scholarships and awards
gained by their scholastic raw material
but “the majority of young masters look
ahead to the time when they will be ‘given
a house,’ which they may hold for 15 years,
and at the end of which time retire,
partly on pension and partly on a com-
fortable little fortune saved each year from
the fees paid by parents for a boy’s board
and lodgings.” It is an established prin-
ciple that “the reward for good service in
a schoolmaster is to promote him to the
position similar in some respects to that of
a hotelkeeper.” Such is the prestige of
the system that a boy who complains to a
parent that he is suffering from mal-nutri-
tion is given pocket-money to make up the
deficiency in the school dietary, and is told
that his father suffered the same experience.
The majority of great boarding schools to-day have
a long waiting list, and if a parent withdrew his
son because he was not properly fed, the housemaster
would quickly fill his place.
Compulsory games is an important fea-
ture, perhaps the most important feature,
of the system, and masters glory in the
blues won by their boys even more than
; they glory in the passes gained at the
memory-tests miscalled examinations. How-
ever, “in a school of 500 boys only about
a quarter of the number really count in
the athletic life,” regretfully remarks Mr.
Stuart.
The formation of character is another
important feature of the curriculum. As to
the quality of that Messrs. Marcy and
Stuart, as distinguished products of the
system, are the best evidences. Their
values are those of undeveloped children.
One gathers that if one were on a burning
ship one would be lucky to have a public-
schoolman on the bridge because he would
be unlikely to lose his head and would be
the last to leave, whatever happened.
Courage like this is a splendid thing, but
it is not the only sort of courage required
in a complicated civilisation, threatened
by Communism, unrestricted capitalism and
fossilisation. It did not save Sparta. Intel-
lectual courage is also needed, and one
fears that the products of Mr. Marcy’s
cramming when faced by anew idea would
do what the young men at Melbourne
University did recently—throw the owner
in a lake.
Anybody who has attended an Old Col-
legians’ dinner in Australia is familiar with
the hero-worship of masters who dominated
their most susceptible years indulged in
even by old men. Messrs. Stuart and Marcy
are subject to the same form of adult
infantilism, though the anecdotes they
print indicate that the majority of their
teachers were pompous, silly and tyranni-
cal. Amongst the “giants” of St. Paul’s,
London, “were such men as Guy Boas,
Dawes and. A. M. Jones—who, although first-
class schoolmasters, could have earned an
equally big reputation in other spheres of
life. Boas, for instance (now a head-
master), was a regular contributor to
‘Punch,’ and his verses, especially ‘The
Lays of Learning,’ have made delightful
reading. Dawes (another headmaster) and
Jones were crossword-puzzle experts, and
have been ever since responsible for those
which appear in a famous daily paper!”
“Within 25 years from to-day,” con-
cludes Mr. Stuart, “it is not too much to
prophesy that the whole boyhood of the
country will be of the public-school type at
its best.” It may be that the Empire will
be successfully guided through the present
times of stress by contributors to “Punch”
and crossword-puzzle experts. “Waterloo
was won on the playing-fields of Eton.” But
the Great War was nearly lost there, and
the rare geniuses who won it were men
who had never been to a public school or
had survived its paralysing influences.
F.S.
Getting It Off His Chest
Our Noble Selves-*-- written by a wit who
uses the pen-name “Sandy McTavish,”
and published at 2s. 6d. by the Vanguard
Printing Co., Melbourne—is refreshing
whether you agree with its sentiments or
not. Most people who write about Aus-
tralia treat vital issues—facts which are
freely discussed in private conversation —
with the owlish obscurantism employed by
the mid-Victorians in respect of the female
leg. N. S. Wales, for example, has a
burning education question. Everybody
talks about it, but any mention of it in
sbng, story, novel, essay or leading article
provokes a witless yelp of “Sectarianism!”
The McTavish lets himself go on this ques-
tion to some purpose:—
Wise old Lord Forrest, though a stout Anglican,
made a point of being on friendly terms with the
leaders of the R.C. Church in Western Australia,
t had it from his own lips that he always sounded
them as to whether they had anything against this
or that candidate before announcing a _ Federal
ticket. He left two Catholics in his Ministry (of
six) when he quitted State for Commonwealth
politics; the amateurish Mr. Bruce did not include
one Catholic in his Government of 13 which lasted
nearly seven years.
Mr. Bavin was the first Conservative N.
S. Wales Premier since Federation to over-
ride the tacit rale of his party against
making any kind of open to Rome.
He spoke from the pulpit of St. Mary’s
during the Eucharistic Congress, and ruined
himself politically. Many influential
Nationalists haven’t forgiven him to this
day. He got no Catholic support, the
“Catholic vote” being purely economic.
As for some of the Catholics in Pallia
ment: —
They habitually jeered when he rose to address the
House! interrupted him with larrikin laughter, made
savage (and utterly false) aspersions on his habits
and character. During the next two years the
Protestant Premier who had made N. S. Wales
history by speaking from a Catholic _ pulpit was
pursued by all Catholic Labor men with a furious
hatred from which open enemies of their church in
the House were exempt.
The author considers that Australia s 10
Prime Ministers were a feeble lot. The
sentiment is often heard in colloquial con-
versation, but no one else has put it m
writing. Andrew Fisher is usually said to
have been the best of the bunch, chiefly
because he coined an unforgettable wai
phrase. This story is told of him. He was
being shown, the Zambesi Falls, and the
reporters got out their notebooks hoping he
would say something worthy of the occa-
sion, and of his own stately presence.
The distinguished visitor cleared his throat. “Fine
body o’ watter,” he said. Then as something
scampered through the grass at his feet: Hoo,
look at the lizard!”
Federation; the battle discipline of the
original Anzacs (as opposed to that of the
hard-bitten men of 1918”); trade unionism;
the national fiscal policy, and many more
things which are sacrosanct from public
blame as a rule are zestfully slammed.
The author is anti-Labor, anti-U.A.P., anti-
American, anti-Irish-Australian, pro-Fng-
lish, pro-Irish and pro-Jap—on the ground
that the Japs stood by us in the war, and
have never broken a promise to the Empne
in letter or spirit. This critic doesn’t pre-
tend that he agrees with half of it, but
he enjoyed it all. So few dare to write
what they really think nowadays, even
under pen-names, or are able to do it
intelligently when they have the nerve._
J.D.
A Satchel of Books
Winter Range, by Alan Lemay (Collins;
7s. 6d.), is a combined cowboy and mystery
yarn. Kentucky Jones is enjoying an idle spell
at the inquest on the head of the\V aterman
Bank when lovely Jean Ragland presses a
bullet into his hand. He hops into action
at once, and doesn’t let up till he has put
the goods on the right gazebo. He gets the
two-handed shooter’s usual award for valor :
“It’s been so lonely, so terrible, for so long,”
Jean whispered at last. “Hold me tight, Kentucky;
don’t let me go.” „
“No,” he answered; “not never any moie.
Perspective, a t Textbook for the ZJse of
Schools and, Colleges, by John A. 1. bhirlow
(Macmillan’s, MelbourneBs. 6d.). Jhe
father of Victorian etching here presents
in handsome shape instruction in the much
neglected laws of perspective. The theory
and practice of perspective used, like the
study of anatomy, to be regarded as neces-
sary for the painter, and the notion still
persists, though it has been exploded over
and over again by the greatest artists.
Shirlow’s work is not for the painter but
for the candidate for public examinations m
Australia. All branches are fully covered
and there are some hints on shadow per-
spective.
Perilous Love , by Florence Riddell (Bles ;
7s. 6d.). Another one about, the Foreign
Legion. Derry tells Fenella the old old
legionnaire’s tale, expatiating on the hard-
ships of his life, the bad wine, the caporal
cigarettes, the ha’penny-a-day pay. bhe
loves David Kent, but won’t marry him till
Derry, whom she once thought she loved, is
free again.
And one day a girl arrived in Tizigoun—a girl
whose skin was browned and dried, whose cheekbones
stuck out in thin ridges on her face.
She has seen Derry freed by Death, after
experiences which seldom befall well-brought-
up English maidens outside Legionary fiction.
The scene is the manager’s office at the
Palace Theatre, Balling, S.W.: —
“ ’Oo it’s murder 1 I ast her to go, and she
never said nothing, and I see it stuck in her neck.
....She’s murdered!” ,
“Don’t you be a blarsted fool,” said Mr. Sermon.
He sounded both cross and uneasy. “Fainted o
course. Get a dropper water.”
But the distracted floor captainess is right ;
the young lady who is sitting near the aisle
with one blade of a long pair of scissors in
her neck is indubitably dead, and how she
met her end is disclosed by P. R. Shore in
The Death Film (Methuen; 7s. 6d.). In this
exciting crime yarn the author proves that
lie has the same intimate knowledge or
London and Londoners which he showed that
he had of provincials in “The Bolt.”
The reader gathers from Children of Dark-
ness, by V. Shislikov (Victor Gollancz; Bs.
6d.), that in Russia to-day there arc hun-
dreds of thousands of children who live
entirely outside the Soviet system, a horrible
law unto themselves. The writer does not
make it clear whether they are victims of
the Czarist regime, the products of four
years of foreign and civil war, of the revolu-
tion or of the break-up of the old family
structure due to the new social order. The
children have not reverted so much to savag-
ery—the lowest savage has some sort of a
social system —as to all sorts of perversion.
They practise odds and ends of Communist
doctrine; are atheists, but, preyed upon by
crude forms of superstition, they have an
elaborate code of anti-bourgeois ethics, an
elaborate system of thieving under which
they prey on Communist society much as
a criminal preys on private property,
nationalise their “women,” and generally
present the sort of caricature of adult insti-
tutions which unsophisticated children make
in all countries in their games. But the
games these children play are horrible in
the extreme. They become drug-addicts,
indulge in wild debauchery and com-
mit murder with all the ferocity and
innocence of animals. The Communist party
recognises that these children’s communities
are a dangerous disease spot in Soviet society
and is doing its best to reclaim them; but
they escape from the Children's Homes as
soon as they are put into them.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Roule; Unless you’ve got other figures it
isn’t much use comparing average prices of greasy
and knitting wool. A ton of watch mainsprings
might cost 10,000 times more than a ton of steel,
and yet not be unreasonably dear....!!. St. D.: No
chance for 1000-line poems. Try a bookseller....
L.T.: Unmitigated doggerel... .C.J.: Poem “made
up on an election meeting” is as villainous as one
would expect.... Lisson: Age-old theme, ill-rhymed.
Willie Wagtail: For a cynical synopsis of the
electioneering game, one verse has its points:—
And each combatant outrages, as he cringes or
rampages,
The intelligence and judgment of the tolerating
mob;
But we’re fooled by party prattle, lose our heads
and join the battle,
That a garrulous incompetent may miss or gain a
job.
....A. Ride: It took one basketwards... .A.L.K.:
You rhyme atrociously... .O.B.: It’s not too strong;
it’s too infernally feeble Dum Mut: Limps more
than a little... .Doanblavit: Not worth revising....
F.W.D.: “Fame” flopped heavily... .R. J.W.: Neat
but over-light.. ..R.P.F.: Two pieces of poetry and
what do we think of them? Plain rubbish.... J.P.:
Too long-drawn-out as well as too late. .. .Mixer II.:
And an appalling mixture it i 5.... J.M.W.: Why not
send it to the subject of your panegyric? Almost
any politician would appreciate such a tribute....
Hardthinker: It makes hard reading, t00....J.0.:
Bridge poems are off. .. .Bluey: Unimpressive
F.C.8.: Might do for a church paper... .A.D.G.:
Lapland’s a long way off; try something about
Gippsland P.0.M.C.: An undistinguished crime
story... .F.W.8.: Nothing ■ funny in unclothing of
village copper... .A.M.: Make the end stronger and
send it in again F.L.: Heavy going F.T.H.:
Drawn out; it was a cheap trick G.J.A.S.: Have
another shot; not enough story in it E. 8.: Plots
laid in mental asylums don’t appeal... .J.H.: No
music in “Eternal Tree,” and difficult at times to
catch its meaning. .. .E.J.: A few good lines, notably
seventh and eleventh 1.W.L.: Can’t get enthusi-
astic on the subject. Would you think much of
yourself if you went round saying that your paper
(cheques) wasn’t really worth 20s. in the £, or
even 155., and that people oughtn’t to pay more than
12s. 6d. ? Yet, roughly, that’s what raising the
rate of exchange means... .F.J.8.: Memorial verses
neat but uninspired... .A.W.L.A.: “Nomads’’ could
do with a month’s revision, and is worth it....
Rosalind M.: A nice feeling. Now try a theme less
timeworn John Hen: There are thoughts in
“Traffic,” but all tangled R.C.1.: Very slight;
has the rare virtue of directness, though
Gen J.: Close up. Not the least of the sins of old
General De Presh is that he doesn’t allow half
enough room for the good verse that Australia is
writing just now L.S.C.: Talent here, without a
doubt; but complicated playing on words is not
suitable for The B. Try some straight verse
P.P.P.: Nodded over it K.K.: Well, here’s the
pill, unsugared. There’s a sense of the beautiful,
but not much beauty of line and word. Try for
that; and kill two-thirds of your adjectives
8.F.V.: Contributions for those pages (“Any Sug-
gestions” and “Other Fellow’s Mind”) must not
go past 300 words J.M.W.: A tiny note, but
sweet Jean C.: Put more work into it, and try
to live up to the first stanza... .M.F.L.: None of
this batch suitable; but we’re not without hopes of
y0u.... Minstrel: Doggerel, and poor at that. The
important thing even in doggerel is to have some-
thing to say... .1.M.W.: There’s an idea, but a
writer who clamors “Lord, Lord,” in such a familiar
way is lacking in perception. The whole is im-
mature L.J. (W.A.): Well, you’re a philosopher,
anyway. Your beautiful stallion steps into a
shallow' Stream and is swallowed in a quicksand;
but you can still w’rite:—
Oh Nature, why hast thou this solemn side,
That makes a mock of beauties thou hast wrought f
That stallion thou didst make and give with pride ;
But still, thou knowest all, while we know naught.
J.A.E.: Have sent letter on to “Friar Tuck,”
as requested... .M.H.A.: A bit breathless and doesn’t
show much idea of form ; but there’s enough feeling
to make us want to hear from you again....
Gertrude S.: They are snuggling in the basket.
There was no doubt where they ought to be
Joan L.: Sentiment A 1 ; verse well down towards
Z 3 E.L.P.: A possible if it were handled more
subtly E.M.R.: Almost. Don’t like that “all”
in eighth line 1.K.8.: Too well done to be
laughed at, but not humorous enough to be laughed
with. .. .R.A.K.: Dry as powdered bones... .Reg
H. V.: She’s a poor mother who doesn’t deserve a
better rhyme... .L.R.N.: Sorry; can crowd in only
one golden rule: —
Don’t overeat, for it doth spoil the taste,
Corrupteth the body, thus the mind doth waste.
(It causeth also smoking to excess)
There is no greater evil I confess.
Still, don’t you think the poor doctors are having a
lean enough time without making the public wise
to all this?... .0.K.F.: No ch0p....G.L.: Made a
good bid for it Spindrift: No, not sad; merely
doleful, like a tune sung Hat R.G.: No royal
road to it. Try reading and thinking for a while;
then if you still want to w'rite, you will 11.A.L.:
No vacancy here for the veteran... .8.D.5.: Bathos.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.H.: The right arm looks as if it sprouted from
his stummick... .L.E.N.: It’s waste of time trying
to work in characters invented by cartoonists on
other papers... . W.J.C.: No use for faint pencil
sketches A.G.F.: Drawing of scarecrow leaning
on drainpipe declined... .G. 8.: Aimless scribbling.
G.M.H.: Not worth sending across the Tasman.
G.S.: Was it dropped into a swamp before you
posted it?... .W.E.D.: Knew that lobster joke before
you were born... .W.H.K.: Calls for redrawing in
half a dozen places E.8.J.: Smudgy sketch with
a lot of gibberish underneath. .. .T.M.: Can’t see
how you will ever creep into print... .J.J.: Drawing
is not bad, but the gag is du11... .K.N.R.: Foreman’s
face needs repairing and his legs are too 10ng....
A. : Hopeless R.C.S.: The most hackneyed of
stepmother jokes M.11.T.: Practice in pen work
and brighter jokes are what you need... .E.J.F.:
Such work invites only rebukes C.A.P.: Pen
strokes are irresolute W.L.: Don’t attempt such
ambitious compositions.... J.F.C.: A long way after
“Hop” H.T.: Jumble of misplaced lines....
B. : “I’m merely a greenhorn.” Statement
accepted T. J.W.: Siren doesn’t tempt us to write
out a cheque.... F. 11.: Who are the queer little
figures cavorting’ in the background?... .D.R.:
Lumpy.


ď
.
*
i m
Mr *1
Hi
■
s:»
HG
—I
y >
i ,-*m£
■
Hi
/
■■'-■ *>
: :
m
■HH
x
«mmi
■Hi
■
a«S
i ■/.
H
,
I
HHi
: W
■
m
f f : jl!
■
H
V|
I
*x
■
•■• w*mL ....
•jL* il / 1
* 3 y|
HI
■%
: ■
m
wKiim
M
■
• "s
H 9
:vv«
s
■ . .
mam
■
W
f
d


The Bulletin
Vol. 53. —No- 2731.
Jane 15, 1932.
DROPPING THE PIRATE.


The Bulletin
Hie National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Wbstralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 11, Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : SO Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d. ;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d. ; S months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 60s.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
rKa France or America: Id. for l,oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
NOW THAT LANG’S OUT
The people of N. S. Wales did on- Satur-
day what they had been eager to do for
nearly 12 months, and what there should
have been means all along of enabling
them to do; for obviously we have not
self-government so long as a daring and
unscrupulous minority may misgovern in
the name of the majority. And in this
case there was more to it than mere mis-
govemment: there is much too good
reason to fear that there was rotten cor-
ruption. The question will be raised
almost at once whether we ought to do
anything about that. The disposition of
the man of British birth usually is to do
nothing: he hates to rub the nose of his
beaten adversary in the dirt. But no such
feelings can be permitted to carry any
weight at this time. The Government
has a plain duty to perform, and that is
to re-establish honesty in public life; and
it cannot do that better than by handing
over to the law for examination those who
are suspected of having polluted it.
It is not party advantage that calls for
this course. Labor will gain more by
it and by the punishment of those who
have been guilty of mishandling public
funds than the other side can possibly do.
One of the most outstanding things about
the election was the loyalty of hundreds
of thousands of men and women to the
name of Labor. The party led by Lang
was the party with the Trades Ha.ll mark,
and that w r as enough for probably three
out of every four who voted on that side
on Saturday. This loyalty is a very won-
derful thing; but it may also be a very
dangerous thing, for it can be made use
of by rogues and rascals for their own
advantage. Labor stood, and still should
stand, for all the homely virtues, chief
among them honesty, sincerity and truth-
fulness. It is appalling that, in a loyalty
which is at bottom so fine a thing, tens
of thousands of Labor men and women
should be called upon to give their votes
for dishonesty, insincerity and shameless
lying. The very first thing that the rank
and file of Labor should do is to ascertain
how it is that the cause lias passed into
the hands of such people.
Indeed, it has passed in N. S. Wales into
the hands of one man, who speaks either
for himself or (more likely) as the mouth-
piece of men who have derived no authority
whatever from the people. So the election
was fought, not on the Labor platform—
indifferently as that may represent the
opinion of the workers—but on something
entirely outside the Labor platform, called
the Lang plan. Mr. Lang had no authority
to produce a plan to supersede the plat-
form; and, actually the thing was, and still
is, in hopeless conflict with the principles
on which the party was established. Yet
this one person, the mouthpiece of a daring
minority, was permitted to produce a pro-
gramme for a general election, drawn up
by himself or his principals, and smash the
Party upon it. Surely there is something
terribly wrong with the organisation when
such things are possible.
The Federal Labor party’s poor polling
was of very little significance. In plain
words, the contest was whether the dic-
tatorship which had been established over
the Labor party was to be established over
the State. The question was a simple yes
or no; and those who believed that the
answer should be “No!” hung their negative
on the candidate most likely to win
through, whether he was a U.A.P. or a
TLC.P., or a Federal Laborite, as in Auburn.
Though so great, a majority has been
given to Stevens, it would be absurd to
look for any swift return to prosperity.
Before we start painfully climbing the hill
again we have to stop the descent; and
when we remember that but for Stevens’s
return conditions would have gone on get-
ting rapidly worse, even to check the
descent at this time is a large performance.
But a great deal more than that is both
possible and called for. This is the chal-
lenge of “socialisation,” as they call it nowa-
days, to private enterprise; and how is
private enterprise going to answer? In their
more or less political character Mr. Stevens’s
supporters have been saying that his return
would mean confidence and confidence
• mea - n new industries, extensions of
old industries and more employment. The
Stevens Government cannot make that fore-
cast come true; such a thing must be left
to the individual. If private enterprise,
ansvyering the challenge, launches out with
mnt, thus absorbing labor, taking men
off the dole to put them on the pay-roll,
it. will save itself not only now but prob-
ably for all time. For let there be no mis-
take about it: in the minds of tens of thou-
sands of good, earnest, industrious citizens
there is a conviction that our present eco-
nomic system has broken down. We have
an opportunity, perhaps our last, to show
that., given the right Government, the so-
called capitalist system can respond and
bring prosperity such as no other ever has
approached or ever can.
THE EASIEST JOB IN THE COUNTRY.
If an insurance canvasser lies about his
competitors in order to secure business, his
office, if it hopes to win or keep the respect
oi the public, sacks him, and the wronged
competitor sues him. If a company pro-
moter issues a prospectus containing false
statements calculated to deceive the public,
not only can any person who has been
deluded into a. purchase recover his money,
but in some Dominions the guilty party
may be sent to gaol for as much as seven
years. There is no good reason why the
same principle of law should not apply
to persons who set out to wilfully deceive
the public in an endeavor to gain a valu-
able seat in Parliament; yet, unless a
candidate libels some individual, he may
lie to his heart’s content, or employ false
pretences, or vilify his opponents, bringing
entirely unfounded charges against them,
and not only will his party applaud him
if he wins the seat, but he will go un-
punished so far as the law is concerned.
Nor, apparently, is there any process of law
by which he can be stopped from repeating
a lie or misrepresenting his opponents.
No doubt very great latitude must be
allowed to political candidates and their
supporters. They must be permitted to
put the best construction consistent with
the facts upon their own party’s perform-
ances and proposals and the worst con-
struction upon their opponents’. So, too,
must the canvasser for life-insurance busi-
ness be given great latitude; so must the
solicitor for any other business; so must
the prosecutor for the Crown and counsel
for the defence in any criminal trial. But
their rights are all strictly limited; and
counsel for the defence who reads from
an Act words which are not there would
be ordered out of the court and probably
disbarred, while the witness who perjured
himself would be liable to imprisonment.
Latitude does not mean license to deceive.
Every case put forward must be “consis-
tent with the facts.”
No man who has a proper regard for
democratic government will attempt to
deceive the people. Democratic govern-
ment, like everything else, is on its trial.
It has been established on the broad ground
that the people have a right to govern
themselves. But even that right is subject
to qualifications. People have the right
if they have shown themselves fit to govern
themselves or if they may be reasonably
expected to be fit. We do not give our
own black brothers the right to govern
themselves; we say they have not shown
themselves fit. The color of their skin has
nothing to do with it; and if we admit
that we shall also have to admit that white
skins are subject to the same qualification
—they must show themselves fit. Now,
how can they do that? Can they do it by
marking a voting paper as somebody else
tells them to? That is no more than our
black brother could do—the black brother
whom we have barred as unfit. If our
system says that a white man must have
a vote whether he uses any intelligence
in deciding how he shall vote, then it is
not democracy—it is a system under which
a small group of men have thousands of
votes and the thousands have no vote at
all.
True, the people must have leaders—
men who because of superior qualifications
of some sort can advise others; and for that
reason and because democratic government
is« not very old and many of the people are
not very enlightened politically, no great
objection has been taken to mass votes—
votes practically given under direction. But
that tolerance has been dependent upon
one thing—-honest direction. If, instead of
honest direction, we have wilful mis-
direction, then the position is entirely
altered. The government is not then demo-
cracy, but a gross misuse of it. And those
who prostitute it are its greatest enemies,
threatening its very existence.
The worst danger we face is that Com-
munism is frankly prepared to make use
of democracy in this or any other way. It
despises the ordinary working man as a
voter. He is “unthinking and lazy.”
Brouilhet, one of the French Internation-
alist leaders, says: “The masses expect to
be treated with violence and not persuaded.
They always obediently follow when a
single man or a clique shows the way. It
is the law of collective psychology.” The
“direct social revolution” “repudiates
Democracy.” Like Bolshevism, says Miliu-
kov, it is “against Parliamentary action,
against universal suffrage, against every-
thing which provides for equal rights to
every citizen, and thus against guarantees
of political freedom for all.”
A large body of Australian people have
been deluded into the belief that Com-
munism is a system of government in which
the worker is supreme. He is supreme in
exactly the same way as the private soldier
was supreme in the Great War. To the
Communist leader he is mere “voting
fodder” until Communism is achieved;
after that, as we see in Russia, all pretence
of popular government is abandoned. In
fighting its way, moreover, Communism
frankly confesses that it knows neither
moral nor any other law. The instructions
to the I.W.W. section of the revolutionaries
make this quite plain: “The tactics used
are determined solely by the power of the
organisation to make good in their use.
The question of right or wrong does not
concern us.” This is what we have to face
if we allow lying and general dishonesty to
continue unchecked at our Parliamentary
elections. Our tolerance merely plays into
the hands of the Communists. It permits
them by lying and trickery to get control
of great masses of men and use them as
“voting fodder.”
But even if there were not this
danger something ought to be done to
purify our elections. The looseness which
characterises them as well as our Parlia-
mentary life demands analysis and atten-
tion. In that analysis we shall find that
one of the great causes of the decay of
morals both at and between elections is
the size of the prize which is offered. This
prize, so far as almost every Parliament
in Australia is concerned, is large enough
to make membership a full-time job. There
is no earthly reason why it should be so;
there are a thousand reasons why the M.P.
should carry on the work which brought
him his living before and should be held
in readiness to bring him a living again.
Under the present system, when a man
loses his seat, in three cases out of four
he loses his only means of livelihood, and
a means which brought him an easier life
and far more money than any he ever
had. The result is a desperate struggle
to hang on—a desperate struggle to keep
in with the party machine and to make
friends with the constituency. So we offer
a premium on lying and dishonesty, and
we shall go on offering it till we change
our system of paying members. No coun-
try in the world pays so much; and the
giving of a free pass over all national
railways is practically unheard of outside
this spendthrift land. Britain, with its
enormous wealth, pays members of the
House of Commons £4OO a year; France
pays its national members £4lO, less com-
pulsory contributions into a pension fund;
in the U.S.A., State legislators’ pay varies
from £3O to £3OO a session or from $1 to
$8 per sitting; Denmark allows £3lO a year;
Italy £225 a year; and Norway £320 a year.
Sweden pays 275. per sitting for town mem-
bers a.nd 355. for country members, plus
actual travelling expenses: the average
drawn by the town member is £lBO per
session and by the country member £260.
In Australia payments have been as much
as £9OO a year in a State House, along with
many pei'quisites unknown elsewhere; and
even now N. S. Wales is paying the mem-
bers of its lower House £744 a year. The
whole business amounts to shameless ex-
ploitation of the people; and it is quite
clear that the direct payment of members
• is only a fraction of the cost.
THE RIGHTS OF NEWSPAPERS.
What are the obligations of a newspaper?
The question has been raised by certain
events in the recent struggle to capture
votes in N. S. Wales. On behalf of the
Lang-planners it was complained that the
“S. M. Herald” had refused the party’s
advertisements. The paper replied that it
had not refused them, but had insisted
upon its right to “set” them in accordance
with its rales and strike out whatever it
regarded as objectionable. Associated
News, which publishes a number of papers,
followed this with a refusal to insert Lang-
plan advertisements in any form what-
ever. And a circular letter was sent by
certain U.A.P. enthusiasts to advertisers in
the “Labor Daily” asking them whether
they realised that they were providing
funds for “the enemy.” What are the
rights and wrongs of it all?
We speak of “the public press”; but in
fact there is no such thing. No two news-
papers or journals are bom in exactly the
same way; but generally they come into
the world for two reasons: one, because
somebody wants a job, for himself or his
money or both; the other because some-
body wants certain views put forward. The
whole business thereafter is largely a com-
promise. In order to keep his newspaper
going the journalist is driven to admit
advts. which he probably hates, and to
print matter which he probably despises.
He accepts advts. not because the public
has any right to demand them, but be-
cause he cannot cany on without them;
and he is obviously entitled to limit them
so far as he can. How he will do so is
entirely a matter for himself to decide;
and it is not likely that any two men
will do it in quite the same way. The
“Saturday Evening Post” barred the liquor
advt. long before prohibition was the law
in the U.S.A.; it would not even publish
an announcement about a wine-glass. Aus-
tralia’s own “Woman’s Mirror,” knowing
what harm the quack can do to the sex to
which it particularly appeals, has every
proffered advt. of a medical nature
examined by a high health authority. The
Bulletin itself searches every company
prospectus offered to it in order that it
may reject those which, in its opinion, do
not put the facts fairly and fully before
the public. Even here it will be observed
that at least two quite different views have
been taken. The “Evening Post” believes
that strong drink is a curse and shuts out
the strong-drink advt.; The Bulletin's
attitude is that the public must bo given
a fair chance to distinguish between right
and wrong—it must simply not be misled
as to facts.
And that brings us right up against the
dispute over election announcements. What
right has Associated News to bar Lang-
plan advts.? Here we have to weigh two
things against one another. The Metho-
dist Book Depot has a perfect right to
exclude a certain type of book; and the
big department store has the same right
to refuse to serve Communists—or, for that
matter, Baptists. Why should not Associ-
ated News have the same right to refuse
to sell space to Lang-planners, for example?
The wayside pub is just as much privately
owned as the “Sun” and the “Telegraph”;
but it dare not refuse refreshment within
certain hours to the sober Lang-plan
traveller who tenders payment for it, no
matter how .strong a supporter of the
U.A.P. the landlord may be. True, the
Travellers’ Arms is licensed, and this is one
of the conditions of the license; whereas
the Associated News carries on without a.
license—a mere registration serves. But it
does get something from the Government.
Its position as a medium is admitted;
hence it has special rates and concessions
almost everywhere. This seems to throw
an obligation of some sort on the news-
paper, making its position, so far as public
questions are concerned, more that of the
Travellers’ Arms than of the ordinary busi-
ness, which is entitled to say “No” to any-
body.
From the point of public policy it is
highly desirable that the current tendency
to divide the community into watertight
compartments should be broken down. This
tendency, indeed, threatens the very foun-
dations of our democratic system of govern-
ment. Our system is, in fact, swiftly
ceasing to be democratic; there is already
no self-government about a great deal of
it, because tens of thousands of electors
have ceased to do any thinking, and bind
themselves hand and foot to one or other
political machine. No doubt a vast number of
these people are thoroughly honest and
sincere; but they have no idea that there
is another side to the question. Nobody
reading only the Sydney “Labor Daily,”
for example, could have the faintest idea
of what the Premiers’ plan really is. On
the contrary he could hardly escape having
the most absurd notions about, it. More-
over, so long as one party paper can ex-
clude the announcements of the other side,
it need have little hesitation about making
ridiculous claims for its own crowd and
shameful allegations about its opponents.
For how is it to be bowled out in its own
pages? No matter what it says, what it
says stands so long as there is no right of
contradiction; and thus campaigners are
encouraged to say ridiculous and outrageous
things.
In some way we must get both sides
before the people; or, at any rate, if one
side gets there, we must see to it that the
other side is available as well. That seems
to mean the issue of party policies at the
beginning of every struggle, with perhaps
supplementary statements towards the
close of it; and publication of these in
eveiy newspaper ought to be required.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Moore Goes Down.
Queensland likes to be different. During
the war, when the rest of Australia turned
against Labor, Queensland voted at two
elections for a State Labor Government,
though in between it declared for the other
sort of Federal Government. To the be-
wilderment of political students in other
parts of the Commonwealth, it went on
returning State Labor and injecting Federal
Labor; during the 14 years of the Ryan-
Theodore-McCormack Administration, not
one Federal Labor candidate for a Queens-
land Senatorship got in, though the fran-
chise is, of course, the same. Last Decem-
ber, when N. S. Wales, Victoria, South Aus.,
Westralia and Tasmania polled tremendous
majorities against the Federal Labor Gov-
ernment, Queensland, for the first time since
September, 1914, elected three Labor
Senators and a majority of Labor Repre-
sentatives. Now, with the other five States
solid for the Premiers’ plan, Victoria and
N. S. Wales having expelled their Trades
Hall Governments and reduced their Trades
Hall parties to insignificance, Queensland
returns a State Labor party whose leader
says he will “review” the Premiers’ plan
and float a massive local loan regardless of
the Loan Council.
Out-back returns may save Atherton, the
Minister of Mines, and two or three other
Ministerialists who were very hard pressed
when this edition had to close down.
And Hamilton has yet to elect a member,
the Labor candidate having died in his car
before the poll was taken. Even so, Moore’s
party has been defeated. It had 44 seats
when there were 72 members; it will have


27 or thereabouts in the House in which
there will be 62. The farming districts
*tuck to it; North Queensland and the
metropolis turned it down. Partieularly the
metropolis. There Attorney-General Mac-
groarty was beaten in South Brisbane, Mis.
Longman in Bulimba, Dr. Kerwm m
Merthyr and R. Hill in Kelvin Grove
Maree, wrested in 1929 from Bertram, the
Labor Speaker, by a man (Tedman) who
did not stand again, was also lost, these
reverses, and others in other parts, may
be attributed to the public-service vote.
The young Hons of the public-service
organisations roared that this vote would be
cast against the Government, and not a
few of them came out as Labor candidates.
Moore defiantly told them to go ahead,
saying that neither he nor his party would
surrender to “those who appear to believe
that they are a supreme power m the land.
He stoutly added that “the growing menace
of organised bodies of Government employ-
ees using their voting power to secure
terms and conditions beyond their deserts,
or beyond the reasonable capacity of the
community to provide, will have to be faced-
He is right; it will have to be faced, and
not in Queensland alone. .
Unlike Lang, Moore went down fighting
in a good cause. His Government goes out
with a creditable record and with clean
hands. Forgan Smith comes in handicapped
by promises which it will be impossible to
fulfil. The danger to Queensland is that
in the effort to fulfil them his Government
will fall out with the other six,, which
can be trusted to pull together. It is to be
hoped that the people of Queensland will
keep it up to the collar and not let it forget
that the welfare of Queensland, as a State
and as a magnificent part of Australia,
is dependent upon the goodwill of their
fell ow-Australians.
_4
Public-service Firebrands.
The sooner Mr. Lyons puts an effective
curb on the few mischievous demagogues in
his Government’s service who have led
the service unions to preach open revolt
against the Finance Emergency Act and
the Premiers’ Plan, in order to avoid pay-
ing their share towards lifting the burden
of depression, the better it will be for the
country. The step from a “publicity plan
covering public service questions, such as
the Commonwealth public service unions
lately initiated, to the inflammatory speeches
and writings which led to disastrous mob-
violence in Auckland is a very short one.
Mr. Lyons should face the danger before
it becomes unmanageable.
The great miss of the Federal public
service is, so far, loyal and reasonable at
heart, but, by the very nature of their
occupation, the rank and file of Govern-
ment officers are peculiarly amenable to
influence from within their own service.,
especially if it holds out a prospect of
wangling better conditions for themselves
by pressure on politicians. If a few sedition-
mongering firebrands were turned out neck
and crop in the interests of the peace, order
and good government of Australia, Mr.
Lyons would find that the political bogey
of the service unions would, collapse in-
stantly. If he continues in his attitude of
nretending not to see repeated public acts
of political hostility instigated by a handful
of paid servants employed by his own Gov-
ernment, there can be only one outcome—
the rapid permeation of the whole service
with active disloyalty towards his Govern-
ment and the policy which Australia
returned his party to represent.
The Auckland riots arose directly from a
few talkative malcontents who persuaded
others that they were safely enough en-
trenched behind Public Service Acts and
union influence to make the Government
do anything they wanted if they only made
trouble enough. The Communist and
destructive element at once took advantage
of the opportunity so created, with the
deplorable results which we know. We have
exactly the same factors in operation in
Australia, and Mr. Lyons will be wise if he
takes them effectively in hand before they
have time to achieve their aim.
+
Ten Months’ Trade.
Australia’s merchandise exports for the
first 10 months of the current fiscal year
were £64,484,000 sterling, and its imports
£35,763,000 sterling; there was thus a
surplus on merchandise account of
£28,721,000. To this has to be added a
balance of bullion exports, £5,630,000,
making a total surplus of £34,351,000. Foi
the corresponding months of 1930-31 the
surplus was £19,807,000. In only eight of
the previous 11 years was there any surplus
at all; and the excess of imports had gone
as high as £31,700,000. We have to take
that figure into account when we reflect
upon the improvement that has been niade
—thanks very largely to the vigor of the
Scullin Government’s Customs policy.
And we have to take into account also
the crash in our export prices. In 1929-30
we were six millions short; yet whereas the
index number for wool in 1929 was 162,
in August-September of last year it was
88; corresponding figures for wheat were
140 and 611. Thus we. have turned an
adverse trade balance in 1929-30 into a
balance more than sufficient to pay all
our overseas debt charges notwithstanding
that our principal exports have a
fall in price of as much as 45 p.c. m the
case of wool and 56 p.c. in the case ox
wheat.
The Acting Government Statistician _ re-
minds us that we have had two exception-
ally good seasons, and warns us ol the
probable effect of a bad one. The warn-
ing is wise; but for the moment it will
probably do us more good if we cry aloud
to the world what we have accomplished
that, starting off with an excess of imports,
we have turned it into a substantial surplus
of exports in the teeth of a fall in prices
which in three years reduced the average
values of our two principal exports 45 and
56 p.c. respectively. It may be that mis-
fortune in the shape of a widespread
drought will strike us within the next year
or two; but at least, if we are not then able
to balance our trade totals, we shall have
very striking figures with which to approach
our overseas friends.
——
A £2 11s. 6d. Basic Wage.
In the first days of the N.S.W. election
hullabaloo, great play was made with a
statement that under the Premiers plan
the basic wage would be £2 11s. 6d. lhere
was not a vestige of truth in it, of course,
but the story was obviously believed to be
a trump card by Lang campaigners mid
was produced at every opportunity. For
their part the U.A.P. and the U.C.P. did
no more than denounce the whole thing
as a fabrication, and declare that they stood
for the fixing of the basic wage by the
Courts and tribunals established for the
purpose, and would not interfere with their
judgments by legislation.
The fact was quite clear that many
thousands of Labor men regarded a basic
wage of £2 11s. 6d. with loathing, while
their opponents did not dare to reply that
a basic wage of £2 11s. 6d. might be a
very proper one. It all suggests that even
at this late hour the automatic process by
which the basic wage is fixed is not gener-
ally understood. For that, misfortune some
of the Courts which have lowered the basic
wage hitherto are largely responsible.
Pretty generally such determinations have
been accompanied by regrets for which
there was no warrant whatever. Instead
of expressing sorrow a Court declaring _a
reduced basic wage might quite as appropri-
ately express pleasure that the cost of
living had so fallen that the worker would
now be as well off on the lower wage as he
previously was on the higher, and that
because of the lower wage he would now
have a better chance of landing a job.
So long .as the hypothetical £2 Us. 6d.
basic wage was determined in the same
way as the present wage of £4 or there-
abouts was, the workers would be entitled
to the same congratulations. _
The real problem ahead of us is how to
so reduce the cost of living that a much
lower basic wage than the one now in
force will give the worker the same purchas-
ing power. If we can solve that problem
we shall be in an infinitely better position
than we are to-day to put our staples on
the markets of the world at prices that
will pay our producers. Reduction of
costs is still therefore the great problem
before us; and in our struggle to solve it
we shall have to root out the idea that a
high basic wage is any advantage to the
worker; we shall have to show him that,
while a high basic wage is of no advantage
to him if costs are high, it is an actual
disadvantage since it makes production for
sale overseas difficult if not impossible and
thus reduces the amount of work offering.
It does not follow from this that low
living costs and low basic and other wages
are the best things possible. High costs
and high wages would suit us as a debtor
people very much better. But, unfortu-
nately, -we cannot disregard the world s
price levels; they govern the situation. It
is on those levels we must sell to pay our
debts and buy those foreign goods we
still cannot do withmit.
The Need to Stabilise Prices.
A very welcome change is taking place in
the U.S.A. Hitherto, fortified by its enor-
mous holding of gold, it has been disposed
to say that all was well with the world.
But the crash of world prices, the increase
of unemployment in the Republic and the
wholesale failure of banks (342 in January
alone), followed by a quick outflow of gold
and something very like a panic in New
York, had the effect of showing the financial
leaders of the country how impossible it
is for even the U.S.A. to stand aloof in
matters of world finance. “Obviously,” the
great National City Bank of New York
writes in its May circular —“obviously the
banking system of a single country cannot
exercise the control over world prices that
might be exercised by the banking systems
of all countries, or even the banking sys-
tems of a group, including the more import-
ant countries, acting together.” And in
another place:—
In depressions in the past the way out has often
been provided by a rise in the prices of staple and
especially of agricultural commodities. A propo-
sition upon which everyone will agree is that a rise
in the prices of basic commodities is needed if the
depression is not to drag out to unendurable lengths,
and that credit policies calculated as effectively as
may be to raise the price level are therefore desir-
able. The world stands to gain by it.
But it ought to be insisted that the dis-
covery of a way out of our present troubles
is not enough. The world needs a means by
which all great swings in prices stated in
terms of gold can be avoided; and no plan
yet put forward seems to hold so much
promise as that which suggests that the
price of gold shall not be fixed, but shall
move with the price-level of commodities.
Judged by what it could buy of all Aus-
tralian export commodities in 1911, gold
was worth much less than half as mucli
in 1924-25; it is worth now more than
twice as much as it was in those years.
Something must be very wrong with the
world’s standard of value —its price-measui-
ing stick —when such terrifying variations
occur.
As a standard and a medium for settling
world’s trade-balances, gold has great advan-
tages. But it is absurd to proceed as
though it had no bad qualities which need
to be’ offset in some way. Making some
calculations from Mulhall (and incident-
ally misplacing the decimal point in the
transcription) The Bulletin (8/6/32)
found that the world’s average annual pro-
duction of gold had moved slowly from
9.1 tons in the seventeenth century to an
annual average of 15.9 tons in 1801-40.
Then a great movement occurred; for 1850-
60 the average was 201.8 tons. And coming
to recent dates the world’s gold harvest has
swung from 31 millions sterling in 1853 to
19 millions in 1883; then up again to 96
millions in 1915, and it is on the backward
swing to-day. Gold is subject to exactly
the same laws as other commodities; it is
cheap when it is plentiful and dear when
it is scarce. But it is a monstrous thing
that when this one commodity is plentiful
it should put up the price of every other
commodity, and when it is scarce it should
depress the price of every other com-
modity, with the result that the petering
out of a few mines in Alaska or S’Africa
might make it necessary for an Australian
wheatfarmer to supply 2 h times more
bushels of wheat to pay off a mortgage than
was necessary when the advance was made.
♦
Taxes That Hob.
Sydney shopkeepers were preparing to fight
Lang’s Branding of Goods Act on con-
stitutional grounds when Stevens and
Bruxner came in and said that the inflic-
tion would be suspended until further
notice. It will now be expunged from the
Statute Book. Like other clumsy push-
party enactments, it hurt the veiy people
Lang and Badly said it would help. An
impudent infraction of section 92 of the
Commonwealth Constitution Act, which
says that “trade, commerce and inter-
course among the States... .shall be abso-
lutely free,” it was aimed at manufacturers
in other States. It was actually the means
of giving them a great deal of free adver-
tising, which the Victorians in particular
will be sorry to lose.
Stevens and Bruxner should now stop the
exaction of the 5 p.c. unemployed-relief
tax from N.S.W. residents deriving income
from other pai-ts. Where such income
comes from, say, Victoria or Queensland,
it is already subject to the local unem-
ployed-relief tax, and to three other imposts
as well —ordinary State income tax, ordi-
nary Commonwealth income tax, and the
special Commonwealth tax on property in-
come —this alone is 2s. in the £. The State
in which the income was earned has a
right to take portion for the maintenance
of its out-of-works; N. S. Wales has none.
No grosser anti-Federal swindle in the
form of taxation has ever been practised;
but if a man tested it the litigation might
ruin him.
The swindle-tax is even extorted from
sojourners, such as army and civil-service
pensioners from Britain, India and British
colonies, and retired planters from the
Islands. Before Lang arrived, many of
this class of people found N. S. Wales a
desirable place to live in, and Sydney has
always attracted elderly people, largely
pastoralists, business men, superannuated
civil servants and their womenfolk, from
other divisions of the Commonwealth. But
few will come if they are to be robbed of
5 per cent, of their income, which has been
heavily taxed already, to furnish doles for
out-of-works who are not their responsi-
bility, and to furnish hundreds of fat
sinecures for Trades Hall heelers; and those
subjected to the imposition show a distinct
tendency to pack up and go elsewhere.
Last year, as the Commonwealth btatis-
tician found, N. S. Wales lost 9179 people
by excess of emigration over immigration.
Most of them were workers from the fac-
tories, workshops, business houses and
farms on which the Lang blight descended,
but scores were sojourners flying from the
relief-tax ramp. The world is wide, and
strangers with money to spend are welcome
almost everywhere else; so they are not
going to stay in N. S. Wales to be swindled
by the Government.
«
Now for a Referendum!
Some of the most effective speeches of the
N.S.W. election campaign were delivered
by Bruxner, the Country-party leader.
Bruxner is the politician whom Lang fears
most, and he made it plain on the platform
why Lang never stands up to him; yet
there were thought and imagination in his
addresses as well as sledge-hammer stuff.
Langism, he said, was a minor issue of the
campaign; Lang, rightly regarded, was
only “the unbalanced symbol of a lack of
balance in our national design.” The real
issue, to him, was State reconstruction;
the great need was for smaller States and
more compact, inexpensive Parliaments,
with safeguards against dishonor:
The politicians must bp controlled by the people.
We must have local control of local affairs by local
people with local knowledge and local patriotism.
This was wisely said; but new States
alone, however inexpensively run, won’t save
us. Nor if Riverina, New England and
other dissatisfied parts of N. S. Wales s,et
up for themselves —which they cannot now
do without the consent of the Parliament
in Macquarie-street—should the people of
Sydney, Newcastle and intervening districts
be delivered over to the tin-hare and
fruit-machine party, without safeguards
against spoliation. It must be placed be-
yond the power of banditti disguised as
politicians to rob those who save the money
by which industry is nourished and ex-
tended, and those who make provision for
sickness and death, under legal forms. The
words “civil war” have, for the first time in
the history of this country, been on Aus-
tralian lips, and the dread possibility has
haunted many minds. The supremacy of
the Commonwealth over the State has not
been decided by the dismissal of Lang
and his Ministers and the defeat oi their
party at the polls; it must be asserted,
once and for all, or the mob will challenge
the nation again and the peril will return.
There will have to be a complete and
final separation between the functions of
the Commonwealth and the functions of the
State. The power to make laws for the
regulation of trade, commerce and industry
will have to be vested in the Common-
wealth, and in the Commonwealth alone.
The Commonwealth Parliament will like-
wise have to be empowered, on the petition
of three-fifths of the electors of a dissatis-
fied region with a population of, say,
150,000, to establish a new State. For all
these purposes a national referendum will
be necessary. It will transcend in import-
ance any referendum held since Australia
federated, and in the passing of the enab-
ling legislation there is not a moment to
be lost.
4
American Gold Bonds and Taxes.
/
The High Court has decided that Common-
wealth bonds, floated in New York and
nominally free of all Australian taxes past
or present,” may still be liable for estate
duty if they are now held in Australia.
The loan was put on the Yankee market
when Bruce was Prime Minister and Dr.
Earle Page was in the midst of his disas-
trous career as Treasurer. Australians were
becoming very shy of trusting their own
Governments with loan money and wanted
difficult interest; by 1930, when the average
rate of interest on the Australian debt held
in England was £4 16s. 3d. per cent., the
average rate on the Australian debt held
here was £5 ss. sd. per cent. In these hard
times the Bruce-Page Government, instead
of trying economy, went to the New V ork
market and was squeezed. The terms in-
cluded higher interest than either the
British or the Australian rate, a sinking fund
to accumulate in New York and guarantee
repayment on the due date, with interest
payable and principal repayable at a .New
York address in Yankee gold-coin free of
Australian taxes.
Good as these terms were, many Yankee
investors had veiy little faith in an Aus-
tralian Government. They started to sell
at a discount, and Australian residents
started to buy. The question naturally
arose whether these people in Australia
bought, along with their bonds, complete
exemption from Australian taxes. The
Court has decided that, in the. matter of
estate duty, at any rate, they didn’t; and,
though there are doubts about the matter,
commonsense seems to be on the side of
the law. In an emergency, the Government
made the foreigner a concession to get his
money. The foreigner would not pay the
Australian Government taxes if he did not
make the purchase; therefore the Govern-
ment was losing nothing by agreeing not
to charge him taxes. But when an Aus-
tralian used his taxable Australian funds
to buy these bonds from an American, the
Government would sacrifice revenue if it
agreed that the exemption still prevailed.
♦
The Position in Russia.
Stalin, semi-dictator of Russia, has issued
another “decree,” the pretence that the
Soviet makes laws being dead. It is very
comprehensive. At the beginning of the
Five-year Plan there was a confiscation ol
farms and farm animals. In protest, the
farmers did a record slaying. This was the
record of the country’s livestock:—
1929. 1930. Decrease.
Sheen and coats, 147,200,000 89,900,000 87,300,000
Cartle • 66 700 000 52,600,000 14,100,000
po™ " . 20,900,000 12,200,000 8,700,000
Hesses *.*. •• 34,000,000 31,200,000 2,800,000
Naturally a meat famine arose, whereupon
the Dictator issued stern orders about the
cultivation of rabbits. And there was a
grain scarcity, partly because the state
farms don’t pan out a 3 expected; partly
because the State, which has first claim on
everything, wanted so much wheat to sell
abroad so as to raise money with which to
buy machinery for its rather unsuccessful
factories; and partly through bona fide ram
shortage. The Dictator has rushed to meet
the emergency by ordering, among other
things, the creation of a great irrigation
settlement on the Volga, with much expen-
sive imported machineiy. .
Our local Lang-planners are in the habit
of saying that at its worst the Soviet
Dictatorship is better than the Czarship
which it superseded. What it m fact super-
seded was not Czardom but the infant
republic which promised well enough till
the thickheaded Communists fell on it like
an avalanche.


“Never let smoking
give you a sore throat”
CRAVEN “A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
f
POLITICAL
POINTS
Lang's newspaper, four days before the
thunderbolt fell: ‘‘With this election there
will be a change from an illegal to a legal
Government.” Lang’s newspaper was Right!
Lang was at the Treasury during the
State elections of 1922 and 1927 and the
Commonwealth elections of 1925 a ud 1931;
and he would have been there for Saturday’s
election if he hadn’t forced the Governor to
dismiss him. On all five occasions his party
was licked; and the last licking was the
worst. Of the 55 Langsters who gathered
so gaily in Macquarie-street 19 months ago,
and who were so sure that the Ministry
they elected .was in for 10 years, only 24
or 25 dispirited tribunes remain. Lang’s
Attorney-General, Larnaro, hit the dust in
N.A.W.'s Latest Thrill : The Landslide.
Petersham; his Lands Minister. Tally, in
Goulburn; his Minister for Agriculture
Dunn, in Mudgee; his Health Minister, Ely,
in Granville, and his Colonial Secretary, Gos-
ling (of tin-hare and fruit-machine noto-
riety), m Kogarah; while it was touch and
go on Monday with Lang Ministers Davies
(Il.awarra) and McGirr (Bankstown). In
every case the turnover was tremendous • the
Bosss own majority in Auburn fell from
8960 to 700-odd. No Federal Labor man
got in; but next time the same may be
written of the Langsters. Lang’s leadership
would kill any party.
Piddington’s face must have been a study
as he sat by his receiving set on Saturday
i! 1 i ' Jr 10 ex v cutlves °f the insurance and
bank oflicers’ unions have unintentionally
rubbed salt into liis wounds by trusting that
he will enjoy 1 the satisfaction of reflection”
m your well-earned retirement.” And Lang
was going to reappoint the old gentleman
tor seven years and give him lots more power
and salary!
Blackburn, the Victorian M.L.A. who
helped to lose the State election for his
party by saying “I take off my hat to Mr.
. rushed over to Sydney to assist his
idol. He was on the platform, together with
Dale,, a Labor member for South Aus., at
Lang s last meeting. Next time Blackburn
is minded to take off his hat to Lang he
ought to be sure to stick crgpe on it.
At the Federal elections two Lan°-
fe-n er A stood A in Queensland and two in
A ost tkeir deposits. Two
rfn b a b S e r,n P Queensland on Saturday
and polled 559 votes altogether. The Laim-
plan paper s interpretation of the result is
Queensland Declares Lang Right!”
Fil!t th - a 1 ? caI candidate as popular as Dr.
blech is in Granville, the U.A.P could
have sent Lang back to his house-agmicy!
F !ef k wiped the floor with Ely, though
is rimflv’ W1 t h 'if blg railwaymen’s vote,
IS . y a tougher proposition than the
dectorate. F'o r Auburn the
ii'-n - tedly Put I,p an unknown
youngster, W llkins, and then deserted him
throwing its support to Coleman, the Federal
th r ,'T; P T|W . resu “ **, that five-sixths
or the U.A.I. vote went to an opponent
poor Wilkins getting little more than a
fourth of what the Nationalist got in 1930.
beats are not gained, nor are causes
advanced, by such tactics.
Moore lost the number of his mess on the
same day as Liang, Under Moore Queens-
land was the only State which consis-
tently gained by immigration; in 1931 it
gained 5208 people by excess of arrivals
overdepartures while the other States lost
He made Queensland more and more
independent of the borrowing habit. In his
last year in office the amount borrowed per
inhabitant was as follows:
Queensland .. £0 15 4 I Victoria .. £2 5 2
S. Australia.. .16 6 | N.; S. Wales ..278
Tasmania .. 19 2 | Westralia ..439
Average .. £ 2 0 9
Also Queensland was, all through 1930. 1931
and the first quarter of 1932, the State with
the smallest recorded percentage of unem-
ployed. Yet Moore’s Government suffered
the same fate as the Government with the
worst borrowing, deficit, emigration and un-
employment figures—the Government which
defaulted, and repudiated, and rebelled
against the Commonwealth, and broke, its
bank. The figures suggest that Queensland
has had Moore’s Government “set” for a long
period. N. S. Wales would have been glad
to borrow it any time these last 16 months.
There are two sets of people in Queens-
land who wanted a change to the politics
of Foggy Smith. Ono lot thinks the Labor-
socialism of Foggy Smith is good for the
country. The other thinks it is dashed bad
for the country, and will lead to a revolu-
tion, as in Russia, but foresees profit for
itself in the revolution.
Hogan is finding it hard to realise that
he is now a mere unit of Vic. Assembly.
Witness his remonstrance with Argyle for
ordering Jungwirth, the official private sec-
retary, who accompanied him to Britain, to
return at once instead of lingering to the
end of July at the State’s expense. Quite
a chapter could be written about Vic. Pre-
miers who became lone members after ceas-
ing to be No. 1 Ministers; Bowser and
Lawson are the most recent instances. As
a partyless backbencher, Hogan will now be
able to appreciate how Billy Hughes feels
—or felt.
Tasmania’s new income tax will take
from property incomes over £546 a nibble
of from 12.768 d. to 2s. 9kl„ the latter on
incomes of £2OOO. Hitherto Tas. Treasurers
have successfully pleaded the low taxable
capacity of their people as a good reason
for withholding the heavy hand from these
incomes. The fall in revenue from Tatter-
sail’s has altered the situation.
Vic. Chief Sec. Macfarlan is inclined to
try the experiment of letting policemen fine
motorists caught breaking traffic regulations,
as is done in some European countries and
in U.S.xi., accused to have the option of
appearing in court. There might be abuses,
as he recognises; on the other hand there
would be a great saving of time and reduc-
tion of court work. Macfarlan is seeking
the views of the police chief and motor
organisations.
“Queensland Labor owes its success to the public-
service vote.”
“Mony thanks, Comrade Ten-to-four, and
I’ll try to remember that ye like plums.”
Vic. Department of Labor has no
mercy on offenders against the industrial
laws. Its latest scalp was that of a hotel-
keeper who failed to give his “useful” a
whole day’s holiday during the week com-
mencing April 3. It transpired that the
martyr to social injustice had had two half-
days off; he was satisfied but the bureaucracy
wasn’t. A bored beak fined the offender five
shillings, and society breathed freely again.
Theodore, though a rejected member, did
his bit for Federal Labor in its struggle
with the Langsters. Scullin left his party
in the lurch, and so did his lieutenant,
Blakeley. Scullin came to Sydney at the
outset of the campaign, and it was taken
for granted that he would speak for at least
some of his faithful followers, battling under
difficulties against the bitter faction that
GENERAL SCULLIN: “Will someone please
tell me if it’s safe to come out notv?”
brought his Government down and caused
Coleman, Rowe, Long, Cunningham and
Cusack, all candidates on Saturday, to lose
their seats. But it was given out that if
he spoke the Melbourne A.L.P. bosses, the
destroyers of Hogan’s Government, would
be offended: so Scullin retreated to Mel-
bourne, to sit “above the battle,” like an-
other Holland. If lie lives to be a hundred
he will never be Prime Minister again, and
his days as party leader are numbered.
Theodore said he could sec no reason why
Federal Labor supporters should give their
second votes to Langsters. The “Worker.”
however, instructed them to “forget faction
and vote for the Labor candidates in the
order of their preference, in every case put-
ting the U.A.P. and TJ.C.P. candidates at
the bottom of the list.” This while it con-
tinued to publish wounding things about the
Lang gang; for example, “Davidson’s vote
in this division [a part of Cobar] will come
from the colored population, who are doing
very well on the dole, the riff-raff hangers-
on, and their friends, the local Communist
brigade.” Lang reciprocated in his erratic
fashion. His serfs were ordered to vote
No. 2 for “the T.B. crowd,” as his news-
paper calls them, except in Dubbo—where
a Country-party man, McDonald, was
placed second, and the Federal Laborite,
O’Shea, third—and in Newcastle. New-
castle was omitted from his published list.
Queensland Labor directed its fiercest fire
on Attorney-General Macgroarty in South
Brisbane. Macgroarty was never allowed to
deliver an uninterrupted speech. He was
hooted when he rose to address the multi-
tude, when he sat down, and a score of
times in between ; and almost every sentence
was punctuated by jeers. “What did you
get out of the Mungana case?” one of the
free and enlightened would shout, and an
angry roar of “Mungana” would threaten
the rafters. The candidate replied, with
difficulty, that he drew £lO7l, “and earned
it by the sweat of my brow” ; and then the
rowdies would break out again. Macgroarty
was beaten, and might have been beaten
anyhow. But there is no gain for democracy
when the forces of larrikinism prevail.
Some of the members of the - new Vic.
Cabinet favor raising from ss. to £1 a head
p.a. from those in receipt of wages and
salaries between £lO4 and £2OO It would
be better to do this, they think, than to
lower the income-tax exemption of £2OO.
While 1,051,072 Victorians are entitled to
vote for the Assembly, only 165,000. includ-
ing companies, pay income tax. The 900,000
who contribute little or nothing have, of
course, most of the say about the spending.
Labor has now only two members in the
Upper House—McNamara and'Disney ;
and Disney is not happy. He is a personal
triend of Hogan, whom the A.L.P. bosses,
having destroyed his Government, are now
“jreatenmg to expel, and he can’t be fond
of McNamara, who beat him for the vacancy
m the Ministry after Beckett’s defeat. Dis-
ney has been discreetly silent about recent
events.
There was a scramble for the Labor
nomination for the safe Carlton seat,
vacated by Bob Solly’s death. Ex-Attor-
ney-General Slater has the strongest claims'
the party could do with a lawyer of
~calibre and legislative experience.
Webber, who was beaten at Heidelberg,
has also a right to consideration; but
jealous ‘industrialists” who have never had
a turn think he was lucky to have had a
20-years innings. Don Cameron, president
of the Vic. A.E.P., may take a chance. He
also has been denied the glories of member-
ship, though he has been a persistent trier
in Victoria and the West.
From the Far North:—
I live on an island off the K. Queensland coast.
Another islander, six miles distant, is a wireless
crank. He also has no interests in N.S.W. other
than that he is an Australian and a white man.
When he got the news of Lang’s dismissal he never
hesitated; he waited till the tide lifted his launch ;
then he cranked her up and sped over the waters.
At 2 a.m. I was awakened by a shout near the
beach. That islander had thought the news of suffi-
cient importance to spread without delay. A couple
of days later a fishing boat veered in out of the
Passage. They yelled to attract my attention.
Cruising along parallel with the beach the fisher-
man called to me: “Lang’s out!” and, as he turned
to go to sea again, he shouted over the stern: “Th’
Guv’nor sacked th’ blankard!” When my mail
came a dozen people wrote me from the mainland.
Half of them had never written me before. But
they felt they had to write to somebody; they were
elated about something; they wanted to share their
elation. In short, they were Australians and white
men. And every last one of those letters reiterated
the fisherman’s parting message, worded differently
but clearly expressed: “Th’ Guv’nor sacked th’
blankard!”
When Badly, Lang’s Minister of “Labor
and Industry,” reached Parliament in 1922.
he was as rough as bags. Old hands, almost
deafened by liis bellowing, voted him the
rawest mob-orator Macquarie-street had ever
seen. In later years Badly became conspicu-
ous for an affected accent, a Bellevue Hill
villa and a Lake Macquarie pleasure-house,
lie also seems to have acquired expensive
mUtor-car tastes. Dunningham, his succes-
sor, going through some of the unemployed-
relief accounts, found that large bills had
been paid for toting him round. Badly, Lang
and another Minister—generally Davidson, the
No-Works man—had the control of seven or
eight millions of unemployed-relief money,
MR. BADLY: " Charge it up to the widows
and orphans! "
and neither in Parliament nor in any printed
document did they give a precise and de-
tailed statement of expenditure. By con-
trast, Queensland’s “Tory” Government pub-
lished a report in which it outlined every-
thing it had done and proposed to do for the
unemployed and accounted for every penny.
“Bildad”: I am willing t 0 bet an infini-
tesimal trifle that Hindenburg and Hitler
and young Hohenzo'llern will some time this
year put their heads together for the resto-
ration of the German empire. The Hohen-
zollerns are a very old habit. They date
back to before there was a German empire.
The contraption previous to their time was
the Holy Roman Empire, which was neither
holy nor Roman. And they date back to
before there was a kingdom of Prussia. In
these early days the place was mostly the
electorate of Brandenburg, though there was
a dukedom of Prussia in Poland or hanging
about in that vicinity, and the name got
shifted. If Hindenburg lasts there should
be a chance for the old gang, Europe being
tired, and the U.S.A. having its hands occu-
pied Moth Prohibition.
More “Explorations in Civilisation”: —
Was a spectator of an overlanding party pulling
into Adavale (Q.) recently, and was interested to
see what supplies were carried in the Chev. utility
truck. Items: Pour suitcases, two attaches, four
large parcels of printed matter, two blanket rolls,
waterproof covering, one bag potatoes, ditto onions,
ditto self-raising flour, four bottles honey, 121 b. tin
butter, pickles, sauces and jams, tinned fish and
meats, cheese and various billies filled with small
packages. The boss was Randolph Bedford, and he
was touring his vast electorate and doing one-night
stands at places as far as 200 miles apart—when
he can reach them. An inch or two of rain is
liable to hang the outfit up miles from anywhere;
hence the supplies. In spite of it all, Bedford was
cheerful and enjoying it. Many of his constituents
will not see him again for three years; his head-
quarters are at Charleville, and Birdsville is his
furthest-out metropolis.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Bloggs” : Parsons used to have a mono-
poly of pugilistic similes. Mild little saints,
with narrow chests and receding chins, were
always “smashing Satan squarely between
the eyes” or “battering the Devil to his
knees” ; and they were always eager to show
one how the trick was done. The spreao
of doubt on the subject of a material Hell
has cramped their style, and, in addition,
the politicians have started to pinch _then
thunder. From a recent issue of the Labor
Daily”:— ~. T
When a gang attempted to break up Mi. Langes
meeting he* fought back with both meta-
phorically speaking, and soon had his tormentors
Lang appeared to greater advantage
tl ‘No h one ! but" hf pertSt physical condition
could s?and up as he did. in the midst of that
mighty crowd. . . ~ , , ,
It doesn’t conjure up a vision of an e derlj
man barking old stuff into a microphone m
a rather squeaky voice, and occasionally
raising dim, bespectacled eyes to shake a
schoolmasterly finger at his class. Yet that
was Mr. Lang as he appeared in Moore l ark,
and everywhere else that I have seen him.
The impression he always gives me is that
one good, hard push would cause him to
burst into tears.
“Hi Presto”: Our champion orator, firing
off his Empire Day speech to a thousand
school youngsters, mopped his fevered brow
and sailed into his cherished yarn, which
always comes before the peroration. ‘With
his back to the wall the loyal Briton calmly
faced the firing party and awaited the end.
The English Consul rushed forward and
enveloped the brave victim in the grand old
Union Jack. The American Consul followed
with the glorious Stars and Stripes. And
what happened then, children ? It was
Bill in the front rank, fairly prancing with
excitement, who supplied the information.
“Please, Mister,” he asserted shrilly, I
know. They took awf them flags and the
sojer ’ad gawn an’ lef a dickybird in a cage.
I seed it onst in a theayter! ’ That finished
the' address—and the orator. The perora-
tion was postponed till next May 24, when
no questions will be asked. ,
“R.A.W.” : Melbourne has had her Mystery-
Express. The King’s Birthday holiday saw
the inauguration of the idea, an imitation
of a similar railway stunt in England.
Return tickets were issued from Melbourne
to X at a fixed price, and X was given a
name after the train started. So many
tickets were sold that three Caravans ot
Uncertainty had to be run. Close on two
thousand male and female flappers, arrayed
in various gay costumes, packed them. They
did not know whether they were bound tor
the snow country or Something-on-the-Sea,
that was the charm of it, like buying a suit-
case (contents unknown) at a lost property
sale. . ... ...
“X.S.”: Some interesting sidelights were
thrown on Depresh when plain-clothes men
raided a “wireless racecourse” on a vacant
allotment in West Melbourne. Some 150
punters were listening to the odds declaimed
from an all-electric set posted in a mulberry-
tree and bookies were busily raking in the com
when the police arrived. There was all imme-
diate rush for surety, but by means of the
gentle persuasion of their revolvers the cops
netted 110. Three vans removed the law--
breakers to the watchhouse, where the stall
had been increased to cope with the unpre-
cedented flow of business. Next day rela-
tives, mainly women, began to arrive to ban
their men out. Like the rest of the com-
munity, the ladies were short of cash and
dozens of savings bank passbooks were handed
in Other assets proffered were hire-purchase
books for such aids to the family budget as
sewing-machines, partly paid off.
sS * *
“Attenborough’s”: Calling on my pawn-
broker recently, I was much impressed by
the sight of an elaborate artificial leg dis-
played among other objects of bigotiy and
virtue. Smitheis, the pawnbroker —he is not
1 T_,,4- WooforriPV whfl
a Jew. but a westerner wiw
served in the war with a Light
Horse regiment—explained. “That
was left here,” he said, “by a
Digger who was fairly down and
out. It’s a costly bit of goods, and
I lent him a fiver oil it, but he s
never come back.” ‘ But, I
queried, “how did he manage to
get along without it?” “Easy,
was the reply: “you see, I sold
him a pair of crutches for lo
bob.”
* *
“M. de Paris” : A distinguished
member of my profession is M.
John Ellis, for more than
years public hangman of Britain.
Business with him has
slumped, as in most call-
ings, so to supplement
his resources and main-
tain his family he has
entered on a tour of the
English fairs with a de-
monstration of his
methods. The presentation is
meticulously exact. The indi-
vidual representing the condemned
man is shown in his cell, and is
realistically pinioned and led to
the near-by scaffold. There the
rope and cap are adjusted and
the lever releasing the trap _ is puuea.
M Ellis claims that every detail is in accord-
ance with facts, and I am sure that with his
experience—he has personally conducted
hangings —nothing can be lacking under that
head.
“F M” • “Ex-Sosh’s” criticism of the
N.S.W. railways (B. 18/5/’32) is weakened
by his faulty figures. His “50-odd miles from
Sydney to Leura is actually b 6 miles bb
chains, and the schedule time is four minutes
under two hours, not twelve JNor
is it fair to compare the speed of English
trains, such as the Brighton express running
across flat country, with the Caves express,
which climbs 3142 feet in the 31 miles be-
tween Emu riains and Leura. It jsn t easy
to see, either, why “Ex-Sosh” should want
a dining-car on a train which leaves Sydney,
at 10 35 a.m. and arrives at Mt. Victoria,
its terminus, at 1 p.m., leaving again on the
return journey at 7 p.m. and arriving at
Sydney at 9.15 p.m. A buffet supplying
light refreshments would be enough for most
# *
“Jungor”: “Snowy” Bowles, Westralia s
latest booked-for-the-gallows murderer,
thought of a better story during his last-
few days on earth than the one he had told
to the Judge and jury. The defence that
failed to save him was that he had parted
company with his victim some weeks before
the latter met his fate. In the revised ver-
sion he said he had found Carron dead in
their camp, poisoned by inadvertently eating
a pat of poisoned butter used by the pair for
killing foxes and, reasoning that nobody
would believe the truth, he (Rowles) having a
criminal record and having just endorsed and
cashed the dead man’s cheque, he had decided
to cremate the body and trust to the dis-
appearance going unnoticed. The second
story was obviously more ingenious than the
first, and a Perth paper drew a picture of the
lawyer manfully assuring his client in the
condemned cell, “Snowy, old man, if you’d
told this in court no jury would have con-
victed you.” Still the fact remains that there
was no opportunity of testing the poisoned-
butter version, or as many weaknesses might
have been found in it as in the original story,
and a man who has already backed one yarn
with desperate perjury is unlikely to hesitate
FORCE OF HABIT.
COUSIN EMILY: “Mrs. Spriggs went to Eleanor’s the other night and found a famous
airman there. So for her next evening she got an even more famous man. Isn't
that like Mrs. Spriggs?”
COUSIN KATE: “Exactly! Always wanting to trump her partner’s ace.”
at; doing the same by another if he is given a
chance. No such chance was possible in
Bowles’s case.
“10-2-4”: The proletarian Brummel is a
calamity. I noticed two examples at the
big Lang meeting in Moore Park. One was
with a girl, and young. Except for his
pointed patent-leather dress shoes he was a
complete symphony in blue. Blue suit, blue-
banded felt hat, blue tie and shirt and a
blue-rimmed handkerchief; if one could have
seen his socks I am sure they would have
turned out to be blue also, but they were
obscured by his voluminous blue Oxford bags.
The other case was elderly—fifty or over —
and alone. He wore white duck pants, black
and white golf shoes, a Byronic cream silk
shirt, (whose voluminous collar sported, in-
stead of a tie, a bejewelled safety-pin), a
blazer and a felt hat with a grey hand. My
objection to these horny-handed fops is they
look so uncomfortable that they make one
uncomfortable. The Eton boys whom one
sees strolling about Windsor in top-hats
look ridiculous —particularly the gangling
hobbledehoys in tail-coats —but one watches
them without a qualm. They feel no qualms
themselves; partly because their grotesque
varments fit them, partly because they have
Tong got out of the habit of thinking about
them. The local dandy’s clothes are always
too tight somewhere, and that, taken in con-
junction with the fact that the blinding outfit:
is only given an airing once a week, makes
him agonisingly self-conscious.
“F S.” • In putting a ban on concrete head-
stones, Heidelberg (Vic.) cemetery authori-
ties are vainly endeav-
oring to stem the tide
of progress. Concrete is
the material of the age.
It will be nsed as in-
evitably in memorials to
the dead as it is now in
business houses and
churches; our poets and
statesmen of the future
are more likely to be
immortalised in rein-
forced concrete than in
bronze or marble. There
is a good deal of stone
and marble in the War
Shrine, but there is also
a good deal of concrete,
and it would probably
have been all concrete —-
and a better piece of
architecture —if the de-
signer’s hadn’t had the
enormous fund of
£250,000 to draw on.
New materials always
follow the same evolu-
tion. They are invari-
ably faked at first to
look like the material
they supplant. Stamped
metal ceilings are made
to look like plaster, just
as the plaster itself is
merely imitation carved
stone. A few years ago
I saw workmen in Bali
pouring cement into
wooden moulds to re-
place the religious bas-
reliefs carved in stone
by the artists of the
great age of Hindu
sculpture. They had
got the idea from the
concrete culverts of the
Dutch road engineers.
When things like this
happen it means that an ...
old art is dying and. that a new _ one will
arise when some genius starts thin kin & m
terms of the new instead of the old material.
$ *
«2nd Divvy”: A man passed through Syd-
ney on his way to New Guinea the other day
who exemplifies in his own person some of
the best and worst features of the A.O.
■F-erv Digger knew, or knew ot, Gaptam
“Bertie” Heron. His name was synonymous
with reckless daring, yet he never got a deco-
ration—or, anyhow, lie hadnt when I last
saw him on the Somme in 18. If he had
wangled a back area transport job, or, better
still, a base job in England, he would have
been issued with a D.S.O. inside six months.
He could have played for safety with credit,
for he lost an eye the second time he was
wounded on the Peninsula. He is >aid to
have been the only one-eyed Digger who ever
went back to the line in France, but there
were plenty of other cripples. I saw a one-
armed captain marching some men through
Kemmel at the end of 'IT, and by that time
our army in Flanders contained hundreds
more physical wrecks. Voluntary service
was to blame. It filled the A.I.F. with men
of high courage like Heron, but it also put
men into the front-line trenches who, like
Heron, fought under terrific handicaps. If
the war had lasted another year voluntary
service might have cost Australia the repu-
tation as a fighting nation that was won
originally owing to voluntary service.
:Ji ❖ * *
“C.Q.”: Pentridge has lately been invaded
by professors from Melbourne University and
other educationists ; they deliver addresses to
the inmates which, it is reported, are listened
to with “apparent interest.” The enterprise
is described as a novel experiment, but it
was tried on a large scale in pre-war days,
when the results in uplift were -- regarded as
disappointing. The average delinquent who
falls into the clutches of the Law is usually
an ex-State school product whose mental
pabulum, after he has left school, has been
Edgar Wallace and the pitchers. To ask
him to suddenly develop a thirst for the
Higher Learning is to suppose that he would
voluntarily attend University Extension lec-
tures when lie is in a state of liberty. If
a referendum were taken amongst prisoners
I am readv to bet that there would be an
overwhelming majority for a good leg show.
“Lord Luvus”: An elderly woman called
on a friend at Brunswick (Melb.) one after-
noon. She placed a battered suitcase on the
doorstep while she rang the bell. A moment
later she looked down and the case was gone.
Tne next morning a shop assistant found
PUNCTUALITY IS THE THIEF OF TIME.
“Don’t you be there a minute later than six."
“Do me fine. What time shall I expect you?"
it on a vacant allotment. A kmried
giance showed nothing inside but ola
newspapers and an old-age. pensioner s card,
so the finder handed it to a small boy, sug-
gesting that there might be sixpence tor him
if he found the owner. The boy took the
bag home and gave it to Ins father, who,
searching more thoroughly, found xlll m
notes stuffed into a recess. It was a delighted
small boy who accepted the reward from an
equally delighted old lady, whose suitcase had
been the unsafe deposit of the savings ot
vears What the thief’s thoughts were when
he read the story in the press is not on record
but they were probably long and deep.
SCENTED ’BUSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Scented ’buses, described as the last wordL m
iov-riding, have been introduced m Huddersfield
(England). There is some talk of the innovation
spreading to London. ’
The world spins on, enriched with growing
graces,
And luxuries once only dreamed about
Yearly become essential commonplaces, _
Things you can hardly picture going
without. .
Fair science never slacks in her endeavor
To brighten up mundane existence thus.
Thrill follows thrill. I wonder will I ever
Ride in a perfumed ’bus i
What though I ne’er in cushioned ease go
rolling
Through city thoroughfares or rural scenes,
Like Trades Hall potentates m Packards
lolling,
Or aldermen in costly limousines.
I shall not envy such. I’ll be contented
Aboard the humble char-a-banc to get,
When with boronia the same is scented
Or rich with mignonette.
From suburbs with olfactory tribulations, _
Like those so oft assigned to Melbourne s
’Scray, , , ~
You’ll hop aboard a bus that breathes car-
nations
Or roses—-roses—roses all the way.
Toiler and knut will journey home together,
Bill with his tools and Betty with her
Wrapped* *in an atmosphere of Scottish
heather
Or English may, mayhap.
The world swings on, a whirl of change
relentless.
Stand by till scented ’buses heave m
sight—
Though even now they’re very seldom
scentless, _
One must admit, especially at night.
NO ESCAPE.
"'The Three Bears’ Oh bother! Another
of those eternal triangles."
Still, fumes of beer and fish combined with
vagrant . ,
Whiffs from rank pipes and gasper
c i ttes'
Are hardly things to be described as fragrant
As thyme or violets.
Odors they’ll have to suit all tastes and
fancies,
Whether such run to rosemary or rue.
What forcing-grounds they 11 furnish foi
romances, „ . ,
Aye, and what shields for misdemeanors,
too! „ ... ~
No more the toper, fearing wifely cavil.
Traces of pilgrimages spirituous
Will seek to cloak with cloves. Hell merely
travel
Home by a scented ’bus.
x.s.w.
T. THE R.


"Singemoine” ; There were more examples
than ever in the N. S. Wales election
of how social and ethical values differ in
the political game from those which prevail
in every other kind of game. Take a case
which, though hypothetical, is typical. Mr.
Gus Roarer, a solicitor, accused his opponent,
Mr. Jas. Bellow, of sacking his Digger
chauffeur and replacing him by a Chinese.
FAIR DUES.
“Why, Donald, it must be nearly ten years' since last I met yet”
"Aye, Sandy, ’tis a mighty long time. We must celebrate.”
“Aye; let’s. But ye’ll remember, Donald, I paid the last time!”
Mr. Bellow denied it, and explained that the
offender was Mr. Horace Bellow; no relation
and a resident of another State. As a soli-
citor, Mr. Roarer would have been expected
by other members of his profession to apolo-
gise, as the saying 'goes, “like a man.” But
as a politician the idea was unthinkable.
When a politician tells a lie. and is bowled
out, he is required by public opinion to repeat
it—with knobs on. Not to do so is the
equivalent of cowardice in the face of the
enemy. As Napoleon might have said, if
he had been a N. S. Wales candidate in
1932: “The Old Hand lies but never apolo-
gises,” This political game is a dirty one
m which no rules are observed, and the
referee’s decision is always challenged. Which
is why those who can’t compartment their
characters—functioning as liars and slan-
derers in a public capacity, and as ordinary
decent blokes in private—usually give it a
miss.
“Tidapa” : Parramatta police have had a
worrying time chasing a Peeping Tom. Con-
sequently when a frenzied telephone call
came from a lady that a man was outside
her residence looking in the windows con-
stables were rushed to the scene. They
nabbed a man near the house and took him
to the station. Arrived there, however, he
had not the slightest trouble in establishing
his innocence. He -was stone blind!
“Cherry-picker”: Reference to the jack-
boots of the Lifeguardsman and the trouble
they give him to polish (B. S/6/’32) re-
minds me that all the regular mounted troops,
including the gunners, F.A. and R.11.A., had
the same cross to bear, though in the Tin
Rib’s case it was probably a bit heavier, he
having to go over a larger area. I can’t say
what cavalrymen use nowadays when patent
polishes are so numerous and cheap, but the
regulation outfit in the days of the Old Con-
temptibles was a lump of cobbler's “heelball”
and the big leg-bone of a turkey. After the
heelball had been applied it was laboriously
rubbed in witn the turkey-bone till the right
gloss had been attained. One thing in favor
of this method was that the polish lasted and
was practically waterproof.
“X.S.”: Melbourne’s champion litigant,
Rupert Millane, who made himself famous
by pegging out a mining claim
in Queen-street, has a rival for
legal honors in Ebenezer Cox,
orchardist, of Eltham. Cox
started to put Judges and oppos-
ing counsel on their mettle 20
years ago. In the course of
numerous conflicts he acquired
a forensic eloquence and legal
knowledge that even leading
luminaries of the Bar and
Bench respected. One of his
historic actions was against a
firm of solicitors, from whom he
claimed £3050 for alleged negli-
gent advice on financial matters.
A jury found in his favor, and
he was awarded £l4BO. There
was an appeal, and a new trial
was ordered unless Cox would
agree to accept a smaller sum.
The ease has since see-sawed
between the State and Common-
wealth Courts. The other day
Cox approached the High Court
and asked for leave to appeal
against a judgment of the' State
Full Court. Their Hon ah.s
found that leave to appeal had
already been refused, and
warned the litigant that if he
came there again he would be
in contempt. Millane is still
one up on Cox, as he has an
Act all to himself, designed to
prevent him troubling the Law with vexa-
tious actions. Both men come from the
shire of Heidelberg.
“Othello” : The opening of Sydney's Harbor
Bridge robbed a lot of men of their means
of living, apart from those actually employed
in the ferry services. A brisk trade had
been carried on for many years in supplying
motorists who used the vehicular punts,
morning and night, with newspapers, tobacco
and Other amenities of our civilisation. The
punts made a brave attempt to carry on for
a few weeks, but found it hopeless; their
custom had vanished, and with it went the
trade of the vendors of smaU_ wares long
established at points on either side the
harbor. There are few things more remuiiera-
tivc in a big city than a good newspaper
pitch. Some of these disappeared in a night.
The closing ot some of the ferry stations at
Circular Quay likewise played havoc with
pavement interests that their owners may
well have come to regard as vested; little
businesses like these frequently descend from
father to son and _ acquire a real market
value, like the “possie” of a London crossing-
sweeper. But there is no compensation for
the man or family that has built up an open-
air connection when the wheels of progress
move on.
“Biunpk ': The Odyssey of the old paddle-
steamer Hygeia, which began in August last
year, was advanced another stage when the-
Harbor Board got the hulk off the sandbank
a( Rosebud (Yic.) where it had been repos-
mg for 10 months. Whether the craft has
more trouble for its guardians stored up in
its evil mind remains to be seen. It has
already -ruined and killed with worry one
man—the contractor who pledged himself to
sink her outside the Heads.
“Rokko”: A Sydney launch-owner was
warned by a friend over the ? phone the other
in glit that there was a light on the cr a ft. He
jumped into his car and went round to investi-
gate, picking up his friend on the way. The pair
punted out silently, discovered a dinghy tied
to the launch, and heard the sound of voices
"’j ' ll • I heir arrival alarmed the occupants
oi the cockpit, and in an effort to get nimbly
into the strange dinghy a man overbalanced
and went under. In his struggles he gripped
the launch-owner and took him along, too,
and the two swam ashore to argue it out
there. The friend, scrambling aboard, found a
weeping and badly-scared damsel, who de-
clared her boy-friend had told her lie was the
owner of the vessel, and had invited her to
a supper of prawns on board, a statement
borne out by the remnants of the feast. He
took the young woman ashore, and, after
giving her some fatherly advice, handed her
over to her dripping swain, who had been
more sternly admonished. Tlie dinghy had
been hired from a boat-shed.
* * * *
“Pom": It is hard to decide whether the
palm for asininity should go to the journa-
lists wlio write the whimsies for the dailies’
THE ONE.
"I thought you said he was a woman-hater?”
“So he is. But he has left her at home, evidently.”
photographs (“He’s Somebody’s Ickle Boy”;
“‘Sit up, Ponfo!’ cries Doggie’s Proud Mis-
tress”), or to the cable-fakers. Look at
this Sydney extension of a cabled report
oi: the appearance of a woman in a London
police court on a murder charge:—
Luxuriously-dressed women in the murky hours
of the dawn steal away from London night clubs
in costly limousines to their homes in fashionable
suburbs. In these clubs blonde ballet dancers
make “goo-goo eyes” at the “sugar daddies ’ who
have grown too old to dance.
Marcelled, dinner-jacketed youths replenish
dwindling supplies with silver hip flasks, while
flappers giggle and cough in the haze of cigarette-
smoke.
Hip flasks aren’t fashionable outside pro-
hibition countries, and London night clubs
aren’t smoke-laden boozing-dens. This
cableman has got his knowledge of West
End habits from talkie shots of New York
speakeasies. It is significant as showing how
Sydney is steadily getting further from
England and nearer to the IT.S.A.
* * * #
“D.”: A car-owner and wife were plodding
along the Pacific Highway, near Gosforl
(N.S.W.), last week, when a motor-bike came
round a corner and hit them head-on:—
The pillion-rider was thrown 27ft. into the air,
landing on his head, and the driver catapulted over
the handle-bars of the cycle for 12 yards. His head
struck the wind reflector of the motor-car, and tore
open his throat. The cycle was buckled like a
concertina.
Anyone in a car, or on foot, is liable to
strike this kind of surprise, so long as
furious driving is legal till the accident
happens. Robert Lynd, the essayist, in tin;
current issue of the “New Statesman,”
remarks that 20,691 people were killed by
motorists in the past three years in England,
and 500,000 were sent to hospital. He
ascribes it to “speed drunkenness.” That is
Australia’s main trouble also. Our car
death-rate, which is higher relatively to popu-
lation than England’s, will never fall till
motorists are proceeded against every time
they are seen driving dangerously as automa-
tically as anyone would be who was seen let-
ting a machine-gun off at random in public.
“Aileron”: The N.S.W. police
force has made arrang c-
ments with an aero company for
the hire of aeroplanes when re-
quired, the rate working out
at about 9d. a mile. Under the
present system of concentrat-
ing every possible activity in
Sydney, it is often necessary for
the C. 1.8. to have to make long-
journeys into the country to
investigate crimes, and train
and motor facilities are some-
times inadequate. When tin
State can afford it, the acquisi-
tion of a small fleet of ’planes
for police purposes might be
worth consideration. John Hop
could be trained to fly them
himself, and they should soon
pay their way. In America
some of the States now have a
regular air section of tlieh-
police forces. In Britain
’planes were used at the Derby
to watch the tremendous traf-
fic to and from Epsom Downs
and pass the result of their ob-
servations on by wireless to the
traffic police.
“Onambatutu”: Maybe, as “Brady's Look-
out” says (B. S/6/’32), the red gum of the
Australian gum-tree does not appear in the
pharmacopoeia as a remedy for dysentery.
Nevertheless I assure him that for a
great many years it has been part of the
family medicine-chest in out-back and far-
north Queensland, and used to be sold as a
regular thing in the chemists’ shops. I can
recall laying in a supply of it at Cook-
town prior to my first trip to what is now
Papua, in addition to a universally-believed-
in panacea for malaria in those days—“ Dr.
Koch’s Fever Mixture.” The old doctor was
a prominent identity of Cooktown, dating-
back to the Palmer goldfield days, and must
have made a fortune out of his remedy. My
outstanding reco’lection of him is that he
bred the huge Goura ground pigeons of
Papua like barn-door fowls in his back yard.
“Darlington” : Last week tlie Great Western
express averaged m.p.h. for the 70-
mile spin between Swindon and London. The
highest speed reached was .92 rn.p.li., yet
tea in the refreshment car was not spilt in
the saucers. The Americans, who are so
fond of extolling their railways, will have
a chance of seeing an English train at the
Chicago World’s Fair. A Royal Scot express
is to be shipped en bloc to Alobile, in
Louisiana. From there the train will travel
on American metals to Chicago. Whether
English speeds will be reached is another
story. American roadbeds are not built for
all time, as are those in England.
“F.8.C.”: The Australian boy can coin
howlers as gallantly, when driven to it, as
any overseas youngsters. These are from
general-knowledge papers at my (S.A.)
school:—•
Henry VIII. seemed to spend most of his time
finding a wife lie really liked, so that he did not
have extra much time to spend on the Reforma-
tion.
Magna Charta was the Archbishop in the time
of King John.
Ket’s Rebellion was the rising of the Eastern
Counties under Ket on account of the Trades Halls
being demolished.
(From a description of a storm.) Soon many
people were reaching out the portholes After
15 hours the storm began to debate.
A camel is a beast having four legs and having-
two humps on its back, used for storing water.
It is after the build of a horse, but it. has a
longer neck than a horse, its neck being used for
reaching.
Alfred was a very ambitious man ; he was taught
to read and write when he was a boy. He came
to the throne when he was very young, and -the
other counties like IVessex arid Sussex rebelled.
Alfred determined to show them that lie was a
boy no longer. He collected an army and levelled
Wessex, Sussex and Thebes to the ground. He
spared Athens bn account of' her beautiful buildings.
“Twaeje” ; Some of the London journals
have been running a symposium on the origin
of the cigarette habit. Consensus of opinion
seems to be that the Spanish conquistadores
introduced the fag to Europe, they having
derived the taste from the natives of South
America, who rolled their tobacco in the
husks from the maize cob, as their descend-
ants do to-day. . Curiously enough, though
the cigarette became rooted in Spain and
was later adopted in Turkey, other European
countries preferred their tobacco as Walter
Raleigh smoked it. Not until the European
troops came in contact with the Turks in
OUR SURPRISING NEIGHBORS.
SALESMAN ( with Communist leanings):
“Why, Madam, there’s a woman in
this town who is allowed £5 a week
pin money.”
MRS. MIGGINS: “Lordy me! Why, she
can’t have a button to her clothes.”
the Crimean War did the cigarette find adop-
tion in Britain and France. The returning
troops brought back the taste for the paper
cylinders which has developed to-day into
something between a craze and an obsession.
BEAUTY UNADORNED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At a fashionable wedding in the Sydney Syna-
gogue the Rabbi insisted on the three bridesmaids
covering their almost backless costumes with cloaks
before entering the building.”
Sonic poet—if my memory serves me rightly,
’Twas Thomson, of the early Georgian
host—
Penned an alluring line in fashion sprightly :
“Beauty, when unadorned, adorned the
most.”
A striking truth, whereof his own researches
Doubtless convinced him, e’en in London
fogs,
But one that’s still unrecognised in churches,
Suspect in synagogues.
Into an artists’ ball, ’mid rippling fervors
Of admiration and ecstatic sighs,
They might have sailed, observed of all
observers,
To win full marks in all aesthetic eyes.
They might have captured beauty coinpeti-
tions
And had their dorsal assets featured wide.
But those are clearly diff’rent propositions
From shepherding a bride.
“Beauty when unadorned” —I wonder whether
He would include, the author of the line,
’Mong charms most glowing in the altogether
The upper portion of a damsel’s spine.
Backs there will ever be that need no back-
ing,
Like those in limning which Greek sculp-
tors shone,
But virtue stern must rule there’s something-
lacking
Unless there’s something on.
Ah. well, de gustibus non disputandurn.
And here’s an axiom to keep in mind:
The thing the studio prizes ad captandum
> The fane may rate as nothing of the kind.
Beauty may manifest its best adorning
In sheer defiance of adornment’s wiles
In aisles like Eden’s, but not in (take
warning!)
Ecclesiastic aisles.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Baths
E
T (f
n
f m
m «!■ r
mif
11 Ir :
Ml? n
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel.
Tariff per day:
Room and meals from
Room and Breakfast from
22/6
12/6
AGENCIES
A valuable feature of the Commonwealth Savings Bank service
is the establishment of agencies in practically all Post Offices
in Australia, as well as in many business houses. Altogether
there are nearly 5000 of these agencies in the Commonwealth,
from which it will be readily seen that the Bank s service is
extended wherever there is population.
In every city, town and district, therefore, Savings Bank
facilities are available to men, women and children, for the
Savings Account may be used by all.
Wherever you may live, wherever you may travel within the
Commonwealth, you can utilise the Savings Account for your
profit and convenience.
tflbmmouwcaltbSavmas JBankof Bustralia
(.Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
The Future of
Investments
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
for June, now on Sale, dis-
cusses how the market is
likely to move.
CAN THIS THING GO ON?
Under the heading “Stabilisa-
tion” it also considers a
scheme of currency reform.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Five ex-politicians have succeeded in get-
ting back as a result of the N.S.W. elections,
although inadequate support obtained by
many others, including ex-Premier
Dooley and Arthur Griffith, shows that
being an ex-M.L.A. is no advantage. Brig.-
Gen. Bertie Lloyd, who won the Parramatta
seat when Albert Bruntnell died but lost it
in 1930, had the gift of Mosman by virtue
of the U.A.P. selection. Peter Loughlm,
who paid the penalty for breaking away from
Lang some years ago, returns as M.L.A.
for Goulburn. The others are A. D.
Reid, who has recovered Young, which he
lost in 1930 ; J. R. Lee, previously Whip
with the Fuller Government and Minister
for Justice under Bavin, who recaptured
Drummoyne; and J. T. Ness, re-elected for
Dulwich Hill.
Queensland’s new Premier, Forgan Smith,
is a Perthshire Scot who started his worka-
day life as a painter. After an intensive
training in union politics as a member of
the Scottish Painters’ Union, lie came to
Queensland, where in due course he became
president of the Mackay branch of the State
Labor party and was presently elected to the
Assembly for the Queensland sugar centre,
a position he has occupied ever since. In
previous Assemblies he has been Chairman
of Committees, and has also had charge of
the Public Works and later the Agricultural
Department. In 1925 he was elected deputy-
leader of the party; four years later, on
McCormack’s resignation, he succeeded to
the leadership.
In spite of his name, there is a bit of
the Cousin Jack about Bob Menzies, Vic.’s
new Attorney-General; he had a Cornish
mother and a Scottish father. Born at
.Teparit, in the Wimmera, he first exhausted
the local school, and then went to Ballarat
and later to Wesley and Melbourne Uni.,
where he was toil for his years. Followed
1.3 years at the law; he read with Owen
Dixon (now Justice), and in October, 1928,
became an M.L.C. He took silk in 1929, and
"BOB" MENZIES, K.C.
became M.L.A. in November of the same
year. As leader of the Young Nationalists,
Menzies took a part in the recent
Vic. elections. Only politics or the law would
make him miss a Test match; golf is another
enthusiasm. Some of his spare time and cash
are spent in art shows, and he is a familiar
figure in the Melbourne Savage Club. Inter-
jectors beware of him, for, though kindly, he
is a master of repartee.
R. Sanderson Taylor, whose not unex-
pected death occurred in Brisbane last week,
was for years one of the leading lights of
Queensland journalism. Yorkshire born, he
came to Australia as a lad, and after his
schooldays in Sydney joined the staff of the
old “Daily Telegraph.” In 3888 his connec-
tion with the “Brisbane Courier” began, and
with the exception of a short interval on the
State “Hansard” staff it continued to the
end. Most of his earlier work was as musi-
cal critic. Later he became a leader-writer
under the editorship of John Macgregor, and
succeeded the latter in the chair in 1919.
Died in Perth at 71, Mrs. Edith Cowan,
the first Australian woman to win a seat in
Parliament. She came of old Westralian
stock, being a grand-daughter of the Rev.
.T. B. Wittenoom, who arrived in the Swan
River Settlement as Colonial Chaplain in
1829, and a niece of Maitland Brown, squat-
ter, explorer and finally one of Groperland’s
best-known magistrates in pre-Federation
years. Her husband was a civil servant;
the lady created something of a sen-
sation 11 years ago when she captured the
West Perth seat from the Attorney-General
of the period, T. P. Draper, now a Supreme
Court Judge. But she had to relinquish it
three years later to another (future) Attor-
ney-General, T. A. L. Davy, Jimmy Mit-
chell’s colleague of to-day. In Parliament
and out, Mrs. Cowan was always an earnest
and strenuous worker for women’s and child-
ren’s interests.
An amiable idealist was Bob Solly, a Vic.
Labor M.L.A. for 28 years, who passed out
at 72. He and Martin Hannah represented
the railway service in the House when the
Irvine separate-representation scheme was
in force, after
which he secured
the safe Carlton
seat and held it for
25i years. Solly
was a native of
Newcastle-on -T y ne,
and having had
very little educa-
tion himself lie
worked his hardest
to ensure that
young Australia
should get it. He
was on the council
of the Melbourne
T e ch. School
(Working Men’s
College) and the
University council.
Premier .T om in y
Bent moved in
1906 that Solly be
arrested by the
Sergeant - at - Arms
for statements
made at a meeting
at Woodeud. But
it was only bluff,
and Solly con-
tinued an M.L.A.
for nearly 23 years
after the grave had
claimed Bent.
R. H. Beards-
more, the N.S.W.
Lands Department
N.S.W. ex-Chief Sec-
retary GOSLING,
who sustained one of
the most sensational
defeats on Saturday.
head who refused . , n
to carry out Lang’s instructions to do
an illegal act, a nd thereby greatly helped
to bring the crisis to a head, is a
B.A. and LL.B. of Sydney, and began
to earn a crust in the Postal Depart-
ment. Very soon after he had made a start
the first and best of the State’s Public Sei-
vice Boards chose him for its own office,
and he was associated with it m the great
cleaning-up which followed the crash of the
’nineties —a cleaning-up during which i
was found that in one office two-thirds of
the staff ~ were superfluous.
There was no better-known figure in cleri-
cal broadcloth in Westralia than the rubi-
cund, benevolent-lookingJCom Allan, Method-
ist minister, who passed out the .other day
at 68 A native of S. Aus., he toiled for ob
years in the Westralian vineyard, first on
the goldfields, where broad-mindedness and
tolerance as well as zeal were Ins arresting
qualities, and later in the His
activities were more than denominational;
no meeting of the Council of Churches or
any kindred organisation was complete with-
out the Rev. Tom, who lent a willing hand m
every public movement that appealed to him,
and there were few that didn’t.
Among the 31 assured or probable new
members of the N.S.W. Assembly at least
10 are returned soldiers. They include N.
Thomas (Bondi), Dr. Eli Webb (Hurst-
ville), J. C. Ross (Ivogarah), Brig-Gen.
Lloyd (Mosman), W. F. Ross (Coota-
mundra), A. D. Reid (Young), D. H. Spring
(Mudgee)—a Boer War veteran, in addi-
tion—A. U. Tonking (Orange), G. Wilkins
(Bathurst) and G. L. Wilson (Dubbo).
Each of the two last lost a leg on the other
side of the world.
One feature of the Queensland elections is
the return of the Copley brothers to the
Assembly as Labor members. The elder,
W. J. Copley, who has defeated Mrs. Ixing-
man for Buiimba, was one of the chief fac-
tors in swinging the big civil service vote
against the Moore Government. As presi-
dent of the Queensland State Service Union,
he made himself so active in political pro-
paganda that the Moore Government trans-
ferred him to Mackay in North Queensland.
Copley resigned and then went after the
Government’s scalp in Buiimba, a safe Labor
seat for some years before Mrs. Longman
won. it. The younger brother. P.K., defeated
J. P. Fry in Kurilpa. Both sustained a
blow "towards the close of the campaign in
the sudden death of their father.
A. S. Cooper, who defeated Vic. Attorney-
General Slater in Dundas, is a soldier settler
with a brother-in-law in the British Minis-
try and a wife related to the Gladstone
family.
H. C. Moore, the Labof candidate for
Hamilton (Q.), wh 0 died on the eve of the
elections, was a Briton who came to Aus-
tralia in 1913. He was travelling his dis-
trict as a representative of a leading life
insurance company when it was noticed that
he had collapsed and was huddled up in the
car, which was stopped by an onlooker. The
dead man was the founder of the Queens-
land Debating Society, and its president for
some years. In accordance with Queensland
law there will have to be a by-election for
the seat, a new one. The Government can-
didate is H. McD. Russell, ex-M.L.A. for
Toombul.
Lieut.-Col. G. H. Knox, member for Upper
Yarra in Vic. Assembly and the persistent
advocate of the establishment of small hold-
ings near country towns, is a son of William
Ivnox, of Broken Hill mining fame, who after
a term in Vic. Upper House represented
Kooyong in the Reps. The Colonel was
responsible for having the Lord’s Prayer read
in Vic. Assembly as from Oct., 1928. His
small-holdings gospel is summed up in “Give
people the opportunity to get back to the
land, to the simple, ordinary, godly things
of life as opposed to the artificial life of
the cities.”
The Rev. F. J. Faton, who returned to
the New Hebrides the other day with an
artificial leg, is a son of the man who
made the name famous in missionary annals.
The second of the line was born in the
islands 65 years ago, and, except for a period
as a padre with the A.1.F., he has missionised
there for 40 years. A broken leg which
refused to set brought him to Sydney last
year and he returns with a substitute.
Melb. Trades Hall Council has made A. R.
Wallis, delegate of the clothing-trade union,
its president for the next 12 months. He
has been an outspoken critic of ex-Premier
Hogan, has carried on a crusade against
sweating in his trade, and was an unsuccess-
ful candidate for the Senate last December
along with Don Cameron and Sheehan.
Vic. Treasurer Argyle will get a tidy con-
tribution in probate duty from the estate
of W. C. Guest, K.C., former Commissioner
of Titles, who left estate, mostly personalty,
valued at £157,222. There are also assets
in N.S.W., Maoriland and England. The
widow and children are the beneficiaries.
Maoriland has no less than 11 baronets.
Three are sheep-farmers, one is a cow cocky,
one a bank clerk at Wanganui, another, be-
fore succeeding to the title, was a waterside
worker at Napier. The oldest of the baronet-
cies dates from 1626, and is held by Sir
Hugh Stuart-Forbes, 11th of his line, whose
father was a ferryman at Picton.
N.S.W.’s best-known Mines Department
official, J. B. Jaquet, will have to leave his
job in a week or two, having reached the
age for the axe. Jaquet made a. great stall,
in Australia. Arriving in the earliest ’nine-
ties, with a first-class student record, the
N.S.W. Geological Survey put him on to do
research work at Broken Hill. After 12
months’ study he produced a monograph
which, considering the data, was a wonder-
ful piece of prophesying as to the nature
and behavior of the lode. They made him
chief inspector of mines soon after that in
succession to that fine old survival of the
goldfields days W. H. J. Slee.
“Straight as a gun-barrel” and “un-
crowned king of Moonta” are the local
epitaphs on John Verran, old-time Labor
Premier of S. Aus. He came from Corn-
wall as an infant in 1856, and, except for
a shot at gold-mining in Queensland, worked
JOHN VERRAN, once Premier and
Senator of S. Australia—Oswald Pryor,
brought up in John’s township, has
used him as a model in scores of
Cousin-Jack drawings.
in the Moonta copper-mines until he reached
his forties, putting in his spare time as a
Methodist local preacher. He was in S.A.
Assembly by 1901, and Premier in 1910.
Verran’s power of slogging repartee from the
platform was famous..
Jolm Verran (Oswald Pryor writes) was
as unconventional in the pulpit as on the
political platform. Not so long ago, he told
a crowded audience at the Pirie-street taber-
nacle, which is Methodism’s cathedral at
Adelaide, the story of his conversion, which
he attributed to the influence of his mother.
“Now that you are converted, m’ son,” she
impressed on him, “you must join Rackybite
Lodge, so that you won’t ever touch the
bottle.” “But, mother,” protested the future
Premier, “I have joined the Church; won’t
that do?” “No, lad, you must sign pledge
too; you can’t have too many hoops. around
your cask.” In view of John’s immense
girth, the audience was convulsed, while
John turned around to the girls in the choir
with a knowing wink, as much as to say.
“I got ’em that time!”
SIR LESLIE WILSON, new Excellency of
Queensland.
Passed out in Hobart, Robert Paget Little,
printer. He started picking up type over
50 years ago on the “Alexandra and
Yea Standard” (Vic.), moved to Kal-
goorlie and Coolgardic, and then crossed
to Hobart in 1900 to start Walch and
Sons’ printing works. For nearly oO
years he was a member of the Typo-
graphical Society; also he was one of
the founders of the eight-hour movement in
Tasmania, and a white man all through.
Captain Penny, the new Administrator of
Norfolk Island, joined the Papuan public
service in 1906 as chief draughtsman; and
he has been there ever since, except during
the war years. Lately he has been Com-
missioner of Lands and Agriculture and a
member of the Executive and Leg. Council.
Whatever his job he has done it efficiently
and courteously. He married a daughter of
Lieut.-Gov. Hubert Murray.
Brig.-Gen. Evan Wisdom, Administrator
since 1921 of what was formerly German
New Guinea, is retiring, after a richly varied
career. The call of the goldfields first took him
to Westralia and his early activities ranged
from prospecting to stockbroking and hotel-
keeping. Later he transferred himself to the
coast and began to take part in public
affairs, won a seat in Parliament and relin-
quished it in the war years. He was
already high up in the Commonwealth Mili-
tary Forces, which he had joined in 1901,
and he held commands on Gallipoli and Sinai
before seeing the war out in France. The
General was born in Inverness 63 years ago;
he returns, after world-wide experiences,
to Cottesloe (W.A.), of which placid sea-
side suburb he was mayor in the years before
the war-drum beat.
.Captain C. M. Hard, who landed in Aus-
tralia last week to take over the job of
second member of the Naval Board from
Captain Benson, lias seen plenty of service
afloat. Born at Yarmouth in 1880, he served
on many British naval stations before the
Big War. In 1914 he was in the Dardan-
elles as commander of the Cornwallis, and
after being wounded and invalided home
went to Greece with a special mission in
1916. Then followed a period of mine-
laying in the North Sea, with an interlude
in command of ships in the Persian Gulf
and elsewhere until 1926, when he took over
the command of Bermuda dockyard.
Alan J. Williamson, the Australian rep.
of the Gaumout and Gainsborough film inter-
ests, who recently completed a big deal with
British Dominions Films,- Ltd., for the dis-
tribution of English talking pictures, is Ray-
mond Longford’s old partner; these two pro-
duced silent pictures for Spencer in Sydney
when Australia had the beginnings of a
great motion-picture industry. Williamson
first came this way in 1910 under engage-
ment to Spencer. On the amalgamation of
West’s and Spencer’s he returned to England
and has since been in every branch of the
British industry. He is still keen on making
Analo-Australian talkies, and next year a
complete producing unit may arrive from the
newly-expanded Gaumont and Gainsborough
studios.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electric Light and Power (Sydney)
Writ- Kt
April, Profit, Dividends. ten Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1922 . . 46,597 10 p.c. = 32,473 12,500 21,378
1923 . . 58,055 10 „ „ 39,207 13,000 27,820
1924 . . 56,303 10 „ ~ 43,704 16,000 23,425
Premiums on shares, £ll2 .. 23,537
1925 . . 72,413 10 p.c. = 53,513 18,000 24,437
1926 . . 89,526 10 „ ~ 57,937 26,150 29,876
1927 .. 90,515 10 „ „ 61,375 27,700 31,316
1928 . 102,440 10 „ „ 65,336 33,100 35,326
Pref. Ord.
(7 p.c.) (10 p.e.)
1929 .. 107,862 88 72,494 33,500 37,106
1930 .. 121,585 4051 77,997 37,800 38,843
(8 p.c.)
1931 . . 120,112 6955 63,333 46,000 ) ... „„„
Provident fund, £lOOO .. j 4i, 00<
All reserves written off assets, £41,667. .
(10 p.e.)
1932 .. 116,129 8593 79,167 28,369
Paid capital is £916,007 in 100,067 prefs.
(now 51 p.c.) and 508,333 ords.—-there is
ss. callable on the prefs. and 10s. on 83,033
of the ords. Last year’s revenue (£241,109)
slipped £18,140. Operating and manage-
ment charges (£104,040) were £6781 lighter,
£6oOO less was set aside for taxation
(£21,000) and the allowance for deprecia-
tion, etc. (£28,309), was reduced by £17,631.
The £87,760 of the year’s takings that re-
mained was exactly the amount required to
give the prefs. 7 p.c. and the ords. 10 p.c.—
the ords. got 8 p.c. in the previous year and
a regular 10 p.c. for the preceding decade.
AH available reserves, including provision for
depreciation (£310,242 at April 30, 1931).
were used to write down the book value of
the assets.
That was because the Lang Government’s
Gas and Electricity Act came into operation
on March 28 last. It has fixed the div. at
0 p.c. on the ords. and 51 p.c. on the prefs.;
but, unlike the earlier Gas Acts, made no
provision for the capitalisation of surplus
earnings invested in the business. Thus have
shareholders been deprived of a return from
money belonging to them.
Lnder the new Act the Commission is
obliged to fix the price of current at a figure
which will enable the co. to pay the divs.
already mentioned, after providing (1) for
interest on loans ; (2) exes, properly charge-
able to revenue, including 3 p.c. of the
amount expended out of share and borrowed
capital on buildings and plant for special'
purposes and depreciation; and (3) a sum
for contingencies which shall not exceed one.
half year’s divs. at the new standard rate.
Thus far the co. has charged each year’s ex-
penditure on repairs, renewals and mainten-
ance against revenue. In addition large sums
have been set aside for depreciation. The
extent to which they have exceeded actual
requirements represents surplus earnings in-
vested in the business, and shareholders, to
whom the funds belong, are entitled to what-
ever may be considered a reasonable return
thereon. Taking this view. Justice Wade m
3921 considered a 10 p.c. div. a fair thing,
because it meant no more than 6 p.c. on the
then net capital value of the undertaking,
including the depreciation reserve. In 1924
Justice Campbell came to a similar conclu-
sion. Taking the depreciation reserve into
the reckoning, the net book value of the
Iciness was £1,314,471 at April 30.
IwoT. On that figure a 0 p.c. return would
be equal to 7 p.c. on the prefs. and 8.8 p.c.
on the ords., with paid capital as it now
stands. A 51 p.c. div. to the prefs. and 6 p.c.
to the ords. would call for only 4.1 p.c. on
the net book value just referred to.
Balance-sheet figures compare as follows:
„., , 1921 - 1930. 1931. 1932.
Capital .. £262,426 £875,000 £916,667 £916,667
Debentures .. 50,000
Other liabilities 59,873 126,096 99,326 143,555
Fixed assets.. 413,875 1,312,605 1.358,004 1,016,030
Stocks, etc. .. 24,952 21,072 16,586 14,126
Book debts .. 15,403 11,289 11,718 8,593
Cash, etc. .. 15,868- 6,182 19,988 15,545
Last years capital expenditure on fixed assets
was £54,036, but no less than £396,010 more
than that was written off. Excluding a loan
bf £—1,339 from the staff fund, the outside
debt exceeded uncalled capital, cash and
book debts by £14,745 at April 30.
On book values as written down at the
close of last accounts, the 3 p.c. allowed:
under the Act for special purposes and depre-
ciation would amount to £27,810; or £lBl9O
less than the co. reserved for depreciation,
etc., in 1931. Except in special circum-
stances approved by the Commission, the
Act limits the maximum amount that can
be reserved for special purposes, etc., to one-
twentieth of the share and borrowed capital
combined, inclusive of premiums. On the
figures at April 30 this maximum amount
would be £53,011. In the circumstances the
Legislature would do no more than justice to
shareholders by amending the Act to allow
tor capitalisation of reserves in excess of
what the Act itself prescribes as a fair thing
. F °r many years the ords. fetched over 30s
m the market; they are now priced at
Jls. 9d. The return at that figure is 5.5
°b a 0 1 1 - 0 - div. basis. Allowing for a
call of 2s. 6d., due Aug. 4, the return on the
prefs. at the current price of 13s. 6d. will be
o.J pc. The standard div. may be increased
by ss. per cent, for each twentieth of a
penny by which the charge for current is
reduced below the fixed price. Incidentally,
the Commission has not yet announced what
that price will be. Under the Act all new
shares have to be auctioned.
The co. s franchises cover five suburban
areas, all hemmed in by the big Sydney elec-
trical-supply undertaking. Except the
original franchise (Balmain), which is per-
petual, the co.’s rights have up to 36 years
to run, subject in all cases to purchase
options, mostly at 10-year intervals, bv the
councils concerned.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
Reserves
(Assets
Dividends. include
t * \ £BO,OOO
“A” “B” of
... „ . Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Good-
'.ai., Fronts. 7 p.e. 8 p.c. C p.c. serves, will).
££££ £ £ "
1922. 41,020 10,500 19,200 600 10,720 74,109
Inner reserves disclosed . . 80,000 154.109
. . 46,016 10,500 19,200 600 15,716 169,825
1924.. 50,469 10,500 19,200 1050 19,719 189,544
1925. . 61,488 10,500 19,200 1425 20,363 209,907
a0,15S 10.500 19,200 1500 19,25.3 229,160
1927.. 49,443 10,500 19,200 1800 17,943 247,103
1928.. 49,617 10,500 19,200 1800 18,117 265,220
10 p.c.
1929.. 49,887 10,500 24,000 1800 13,587 278,807
1930.. 48,841 10,500 24,000 1800 12,541 291,348
8 p.c.
1931.. 39,717 10,500 19,200 2100 7,917 299,265
1932.. 39,711 10,500 19,200 2400 306,876
Harper’s, whose business is well spread
throughout the Commonwealth, occupies a
unique position in the drygoods-speeialty
held; large-scale buying, general efficiency
and the husbanding of financial resources
have combined to set it there. Last year the
perplexing nature of the .debts problem, due
largely to the difficulties of the small store-
keeper, especially in the country, and the
restriction of demand to cheaper lines, carry-
ing narrow margins, made trade vastly
more difficult. The drop in exchange pro-
vided a litle relief during the latter half of
the term, but taxation remains onerous, and
the cut in returns from Government securi-
ties aud the drop in bank deposit rates re-
duced earnings from these sources. Still,
enough profit was exhibited to pay the pref.
and B share divs. (together £12,900) and
then show 11.3 p.c. on the £240,000 of ord.
capital as against 11.3, 15.2, 15.6, 15.5, 15.2
and 16 p.c. back to 1926. The 8 p.c. div.
was repeated, and there is nothing in sight
at the moment to suggest that it is likely
to be interfered with. It has been an annual
event since 1917, and was sweetened with a
2 p.c. bonus in ’29 and ’3O from returns on
money invested outside the business.
For years the board has been piling up
cash and other liquids with a view to extend-
ing the co.’s operations whim opportunity
offered. Exactly what has happened the
next table shows :—•
r> , 1919. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £398,268 £420,000 £430,000 £430,000
Mortgages .. 35,733 .
Deposits .. 31,318
Overdraft .. 72,103
Sundry creditors 94,014 49,511 43,204 41,778
Freeholds .. 135,682 146,660 146,142 145,665
Plant, etc. .. 81,769 54,140 53,260 48,926
Leaseholds .. 400
Stock .. 234,710 162,762 153,197 146,840
Sundry debtors 145,856 124,865 120,732 111,026
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc. 22,367 212,982.235,187 262,246
Last year there was a contraction of £BOO7
in the book value of Government securities
(now £138,363) ; but the cash bolding, etc.,
largely fixed deposits, was strengthened by
£35,066, raising it to £123,883. The low
figure at which creditors (including amounts
in suspense) appear suggest a cash-purchase
policy, whereby maximum discounts are
obtaine.d. The year’s spring in the more or
less liquid surplus (£478,334, including
stocks) was £12.422.
On the market 325. is offered for the ords.
as against 28s. a year ago. At the lower
figure the return is 5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. The backing is 335. 6d. in net tan-
gibles. The profs.—there are 150,000 of
them—seldom come on to the market; they
are covered by £4 18s. 3d. in net tangibles,
and last year’s • net earnings were 3£ times
their annual requirements.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
„ ~ t Dividends , Nominal
Half-year Net Pref. To Re- Re-
'ended Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar.,’23. .20,211 3667 8 p.c.=12,915 3,629 39,395
Sept.,’23. .26,982 4 000 8„ „ 12,915 10,067 49,462
Mar.,’24. .23,955 4000 8 „„ 12,915 7,040 56,502
New share costs written off, £3856 .. 52,646
Sept.,’24. .33,851 4000 8 p.c. =16,000 13,851 66,497
Mar.,’2s. .46,234 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 26,234 92,731
Sept.,’2s. .38,229 4000 8 „ ~ 16,000 18,229 110,960
Mar.,’26. .39,261 4000 8 „ „ 16,000 19,261 130,221
Sept.,’26. .39,422 4000 8,. „ 20,000 15,422 145,643
Mar.,’27. .38,580 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 9,580 155,223
Sept.,’27. .42,142 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 13,142 168,365
Mar.,’2B. .48,169 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 19,169 187,534
Sept.,’2B. .47,085 4000 12 „,, 30,000 13,085 200,619
Mar.,’29. .50,771 4000 12 „ „ 30,000 16,771 217,390
Sept.,’29. .52,151 4000 12 „.. 30,000 18,151 235,541
Mar.,’3o. .42,776 4000 10 „ „ 25,000 13,775 248,316
Sept.,’3o. .33,020 4000 8 „ „ 20,000 9,020 257,336
Mar.,’3l. .28,109 4000 8 „ 20,000 4,109 261,445
Sept.,’3l. .23,968 4000 S,, „ 20,000 261,413
Specific reserves written off, £2369 .. 259,044
Unexplained additions, £4079 .. .. 263,123
Mar.,’32. .22,342 4000 8 p.c. =20.000 261,465
Since the present co. took over the scat-
tered Gordon and Gotch business 13 years
ago the management has given a lot of
attention to stocks in relation to turnover,
thus weeding out dead lines and livening
others. Also many of the outlets have been
stopped up, the Maoriland business has been
put on a better footing, and the organisation
generally tightened, while additions and
alterations to the premises provided better
facilities. Hence the div., which was lifted
from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c. in March, ’27, was
sweetened with a 2 p.c. bonus IS months
later, and comfortable margins remained.
Then conditions changed. Turnover began
to contract, and has continued to do so,
while exchange,, primage and other taxes
have made outgoings difficult to restrain, and
the debts problem has added greatly to the
difficulties. Thus the div. is back to 8 p.c.
again, and it is uncertain whether that rate
will be maintained. For the six months
covered by the latest accounts gross earn-
ings (£41,723) fell away £5654, making the
slip £26,373 for the twelvemonth; exes.
(£19,381) were pulled back £4245. After
allowing for the pref. div., the balance of
the net earnings was at the rate of 7.3 p.c.
p.a. on the half-million of ord. capital. That
is leaving out of the reckoning £4079 dropped
from somewhere into general reserves (now
£215,173), and a leasehold reserve of £2369
which has been deducted from the asset;
so the 8 p.c. div. may have been more than
earned. The year’s net takings (£46,310)
were over 5§ times the pref. requirements,
after allowing for which enough remained
to show 7.6 p.e. on ord. capital as against
10.6. 17.3, 17.9, 16.4 and 14 p.c. back to
1927.
During the 41 years to the end of March,
1931, £219,805 was lopped off the outside
debt, stocks, ami debtors' balances being
worked down for the purpose:
Mai-.,’27. Mar.,'3l. Mar.,’32.
I’a id capital . . £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Mortgages . . 69,000 6.429
Sundry creditors.. 127,050 95,199 98,538
Bank, overdraft .. 79,880 7,170 , 17,418
Total liabilities.. £275,930 £108,79S £115,956
Freeholds.. .. £199,230 £207,767 £206,881
Leaseholds .. 25,515 23,583 20,728
Plant, fixtures, etc. 46,595 44,054 38,218
Stock .. . . 332,896 233,526 192,521
Book debts .. 353,249 300,721 253,643
Other assets . . 18,560 84,257 181,374
Tangible assets.. £966,045 £893,908 £893,365
Last year £7158 net was added to the
debt, the stocks item was reduced by £41,005
and debtors’ balances by £47,078. All the
spare money was put into investments, which
figure at £144,760 (cost), up £126,500 during
the year; they are included with other assets
in the table. The more or less liquid surplus
(£511,582, including stocks) improved £1876.
All shares rank equally for capital. They
are covered by net. tangibles with a book
value of 245. 9d. The prefs., which are
entitled to a cumulative 8 p.c., are priced at
275. on the market; at that figure the return
is 5.9 p.c. At 255. 9d. the ords. return 6.2
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Prestige, Ltd.
, Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1926.. 12,941 544 10 p.c. = 8,761 8636 14,660
Written off buildings, £2OOO .. 12,660
Share premiums, £3425 .. .. 16,085
1927.. 16,049 544 15 p.c. = 6,548 8957 25,042
Reserves capitalised, £1209.. .. 23,833
Share premiums, £4935 .. .. 28,768
Specific reserves disclosed, £4471 .. 24,297
Pref. Ord.
1928.. 21,107 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 11,439 9,668 33,965
Share premiums, £5407 .. .. 39,372
1929.. 29,924 8 p.c. 20 p.c. = 16,850 13,074 52,446
Share premiums, £14,033 . . .. 66,479
1930.. 30,600 8 p.c. 15 p.c, = 16,754 13,846 80,325
Share premiums, £7199 .. .. 57,524
1931.. 17,769 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 15,210 2,559 90,083
Share premiums, £2234 .. .. 92,317
1932.. 19,189 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 15,799 3,390 95,707
This 10-year-old is one of the most, success-
ful of the Australian hosiery mills. The
post-war slump caused trouble at the start,
but the board tackled its problems promptly,
and went the right way about it; half the
capital was jettisoned, technical difficulties
were overcome, and attention was turned to
marketing. Also members of the staff have
been regularly sent overseas to investigate
production methods and costs'the aim being-
better quality and livelier sales, and
splendid results have been achieved. Paid
capital flew along from £33,181 in 1925 to
£169,459 at the end of last March; and the
div. and bonuses reached 20 p.c. in 1929, fol-
lowed by 15 p.c. and then 10 p.c. in 1931,
despite general failure of the spring and
summer sales and other difficulties.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts retailers adopted a hand-to-
mouth policy, and there was some price cut-
ting, due to a scramble for ready cash in
the trade. Nevertheless, the tariff and ex-
change provided new opportunities, and in-
creased efficiency and lower costs enabled
Prestige to further reduce its prices and
quicken its sales. After taking plant, etc., into
account at £18,144 less than the 1931 figure,
gross earnings (£109,698) were visibly £l5ll
better. Including an extra £1567 set aside
for taxation (£5098). there was little change
in administrative charges (£90,509). Thus,
after allowing for pref, requirements (£4580
p.a.), enough remained to show 13 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 12.3, 37.7.44.1,
30.3 and 34.7 p.c. back to 1927; so the div.
was kept at 71 p.c. and the 2-| p.c. bonus
was repeated, making 10 p.c. for the year.
But share premiums make 10 p.c. worth
np more than 6.6 p.c. on all capital gathered
since. 1925, while the writing off above
referred to reduces the return to half the
declared rate on old holdings.
The quick development of the business
and the nature _of the finances and other
things are seen in the following comparison
of balance-sheet figures :
1925. 1930. 1931. 1932.
raid capital.. £33,181 £155,242 £165,014 £169,459
Debentures .. 9,563
Overdraft .. 7,460 9,906 17,814 14,524
Sundry creditors 3,948 32,506 46,226 67,939
Freehold .. 15,126 58,596 59,355 59 695
Plant, etc. .. 15,059 91,203 114,516 96,372
Shares in other cos. - 26 360
Stocks .. 16,646 127,661 144,214 1593)14
Book debts, etc. 9,669 18,108 15,391 21,869
Cash.. .. 6,679 10 24 ’ 24
Last year £21,713 net was added to the
amount coming to trade creditors : the stocks
item increased by £14,800. debtors’ balances,
etc., by £6478 and £3290 was snipped off
the overdraft. Surplus earnings, including
allowance for depreciation, etc., were invested
in shares in other cos., a new item which
figures at £26,360 (cost). No hint is given
as to whether the scrip represents subsi-
diary interests or Stock Exchange securities.
Including this item and trade stocks, the
more or less liquid surplus (£124804)
sprang £29,215 during the twelvemonth.
The market prices the fully-paid 10s. ords.
at 16s. 3d. as against 14s. 9d. a year ago.
Allowing for the final div. (Gd.) and bonus
(3d.), the return at the lower figure is 6.4
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. At 235. the £3
8 p.c. cum. prefs. return 6.9 p.c. The net
tangible backing is £4 12s. 7d., prefs.;
14s. 7d., ords.
Australian Cash Orders, Ltd. (Sydney)
„ . _ Writ- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 36,535 p.c. = 21,318 2,960 17,361
1927.. 46,575 35 „ „ 35,423 2,651 25,862
Goodwill written up £93,367, and that Dofieit-
amount capitalised 67.505
1928.. 41,421 15 p.c. = 31,034 11,855 68.973
1929.. 40,182 15 „ „ 31,322 3,724 63.837
1930. . 38,270 llj „ „ 23,659 3,617 52,843
1931.. 24,291 6 „ „ 12,745 6,735 48,032
1932.. 17,275 2 „ „ 4,208 17,455 52,420
Buckinghams, retail drapers in Oxford-
street, virtually made a present of a fine
cash-order connection to some of their em-
ployees about 12 years ago; thus the pre-
sent co. began. During the boom years which
followed it developed into a> monev-spinner.
Of the, £206.900 of paid capital £133,609 is
bonus scrip. The last gift was in 1927.
when £93,367 of water was pumped into
capital by writing up goodwill, thus rais-
ing the intangible £112,087, lvhich is nor
treated as an asset herein. Thereupon the
div. dropped from .‘l5 p.e. to 15 p.c.. and
then to HI p.c. in 1930.
The harvests were gathered largely from
scattered loan funds from overseas, which
created a hunger for the things we hadn’t
got and a readiness to borrow to buy them.
Clients cared little about the price of credit
granted on the “pay as you earn" principle,
and rich pickings were obtained from trade
discounts. But those days have gone, and
are not likely to return: so past perform-
ances are not much of a guide to the future.
With the arrival of hard times bad debts
have exceeded expectations, while the mora-
torium has added to overhead bv increasing
the difficulty of collections. ‘ These and
other things, including the need to provide
largely for further contingencies, have bitten
deeply into earnings. Last year’s gross, dis-
counts, interest, etc. (£52,754), fell awav
£8300; administrative charges, etc. (£35,479.
including taxation), were £1284 lighter. Of
the £17,275 that remained £12,124 (£6751
in the previous year) was reserved for bad
debts, etc., and £4208 was distributed in a
2 p.e. div. The net reduction in the reserve
for bad debts, etc. (now £34,475). was
£17,455, shown as written off in the table,
thus increasing the amount of capital unre-
presented by tangibles in the books to
£52,420 at March 31.
Balance-sheet figures compare as follows:
1926. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £98,774 £206,895 £206,900 £206,900
Liabilities . . 52,589 64,024 33,515 34,845
Freeholds . . 39,065 39,135 39,135 39,135
Furniture, etc. 2,038 2,761 2,809 2,640
Stock .. 1,805
Book debts, etc. 135,028 167,306 133,100 126^192
Loans on
mortgage .. 20,000 20,000 20,000
Cash .. .. 10,084 3,760
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£115,107) was £14,562 lighter than at the
close of accounts in 1931. Everything, of
course, depends upon the soundness of
debtors’ balances. For the last quarter of
the term there was a slight improvement in
the figures, but competition for a smaller
volume of business at reduced rates, cur-
tailment of trade discounts, taxation and
the collections problem are pretty certain
to mean moderate returns in the future.
The public is interested in 167,068 fully-
paid £1 B shares, which have priority as to
capital. In addition there are 18,700»A
(vendor), 19,315 B paid to ss. and 16,308 (’
(employees’) shares. All scrip ranks equally
for dividends. The B shares, which are
covered by net tangibles with a book value
of 18s. 6d., have not an active market.
Emu and Prospect Gravel (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 11,010 10 p.c. - 8976 2034 18,724
Unexplained reductions, ’£soo .. 18,224
1928.. 11,042 10 p.c. = 8976 .2066 20,290
Unexplained additions, £776 .. 21,066
1929.. 9,782 10 p.c. = 8976 806 21,872
Unexplained reductions, £Bl3 .. 21,059
1930.. 1,565 Nil 1565 22,624
Unexplained reductions, £3935 .. 18,689
Loss.
1931.. 1,752 Nil 16,937
This co. lias' been working gravel deposits
at Emu Plains and a metal quarry at Pros-
pect, both handy to Sydney, since the begin-
ning of this century. It never launched out
on a large scale, but, until recently, had
always managed to pay a div., though the
rate was irregular and modest until the post-
war boom arrived. Then the activity in
road and other construction, due to the
scattering of loan money, created a .strong
demand and good prices for metal, thus en-
abling a regular 10 p.c. to be paid for the
decade to the close of accounts in 1929.
But slump and political developments
brought about paralysis of the construction
trades in N. S. Wales, and competition has
become so fierce that the co. lias had to
cut prices below cost in order to secure its
share of the trifle of business offering. Hence
the abrupt contraction in 3930 figures, and
an’ admitted loss of £1752 last year; the
figure is £5687 if an unexplained reduction
of £3935 in reserves is taken into the reckon-
ing. And it is difficult to say when share-
holders, who have gone hungry for the last
two years, wall get into the picture again.
Sydney is overbuilt, and, except for repair
work, public expenditure on roads promises
to be very restricted, while competition seems
likely to remain aggressive. It is all pretty
certain to mean moderate earnings in the
future.
There is nothing troublesome about the
finances:—.
1927. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. . . £89,760 £91,181 £91,181
Liabilities . . . . 1,187 14,910 11,813
Land, quarries, etc. .. " 55,448 55,462 55,462
Plant and buildings . , 23,974 44,584 48,862
Shares in other cos.. . 2,242 3,955 3,955
Stocks 1,248 4,406 4,497
Debtors 9,961 9,788 7,219
Chsh, etc 26,761 17,220 7,392
Thus to reduce liabilities by £3097. and
add £4278 to the book value of plant, etc.,
debtors’ balances were reduced by £2569.
and cash, etc., was drawn upon for £9828.
The slip in the more or less liquid surplus
(£7289. including stocks but not shares) was
£9215.
Shareholders’ funds are practically all
represented by quarries, plant, etc., worth
what they can earn. Therefore, too much
importance need not be attached to the net
asset backing for the scrip, which amounts
to 235. Bd. per share, excluding the depre-
ciation reserve (£7200), equal to another
Is. 7d. The scrip has not an active market.
Singapore Hume Pipe Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Map., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
& £ £ £
1923.. 959 Nil 959 18,209
1924.. 9,595 121 p.c. = 5000 4595 13,614
1925.. 1,482 Nil 1452 12,132
1926.. 8,033 10 p.c. = 4000 4033 8,099
1927.. 7,800 8 „ „ 3200 4600 3,499
Reserves.
1928.. 11,301 10 „ „ 4000 7301 3,802
1929.. 11,699 15 „ „ 6000 5699 9,501
1930.. 12.074 15 „ .. 6000 6074 15,575
1931.. 11,001 15 „ „ 6000 5001 20.576
1932.. 1,679 10 „ „ 4000 18,255
Though it is the smallest unit of the Hume
organisation it has thus far been the most
{Continued on page 16.)


s
m
■ ' i
M
m
mi
c-
N
dlianqe io-dai{ io
10/'"'6“
200.
D
D
CIGARETTES.
CORK TIPPED Oft PIMM
aiso
Q
K
a
Jtuke Cut7obacco
Jine Cut7obacco
d


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Se., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Price? and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
PARTNERSHIP WORRIES.—You insure your
stock against Fire and Burglary— you insure your
staff against Workers’ Compensation. Have you made
provision in your partnership deed for buying out
your partner’s widow ? That provision can only be
safely made by a Partnership Assurance. The
T. and G. Mutual Life has a Special Partnership
Policy which might save you financial embarrass-
ment at a critical period. Ring or write and ask
about it—no obligation.— Advt. [5
AMP
...10/- ft week brought them
£1913 when 65 years old
u
S£
1?,4
A cheery theme
to write about
is this way of
providing for old-age comfort
SOME people think that Life Assurance is a gloomy subject,
but it is one of the cheeriest! It provides stories of widows
and children cared for and protected; of boys and girls provided
with the money for proper education; of old age made happy.
Here is pictured a couple that knows the peace of mind that
an A.M.P. policy can give. The couple married in 1891. Both
were 25 years of age. They decided that they could save 10/-
a week to invest in an A.M.P. policy on his life. He took out
an Endowment Assurance Policy for £1 000,'payable at 65 years
or previous death.
At the end of last year the policy matured and the couple
drew £1 91 3—a very nice sum to receive in times like these.
The comfort of their old age is assured.
Any couple can do what this couple did, for the cost is so
small. There is an A.M.P. policy to meet every man’s (and
every woman’s) need. It costs you nothing to learn about
them to your advantage.
DELAY IS DANGEROUS—USE THIS COUPON.
To the
Australian Mutual Provident Society,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Without obligation on my part, please send me particulars how I
may have a fund, for retirement at age 65, of £ My age is
years.
NAME
ADDRESS
AMP
successful. It put up a factory in Singa-
pore in 1922, and for the decade to the close
of last accounts shareholders averaged 9.5
p.c., f 19,168 of intangibles were rubbed
out of the sheet, and there was £18,255 of
genuine savings to assist and support the
£401)00 of paid capital at the end of March.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts Government contracts, on which
the business mainly depends, almost dis-
appeared from the order book. That was
because of the heavy loss of public revenue,
owing to the collapse of prices in the tin
and rubber markets, which also resulted in
a dearth of private work. Turnover for the
last half was nearly 40 p.c. less than for
the first half, and the steel-pipe plant,
operated in conjunction with Hume Steel,
was closed most of the year. Thus the profit
dropped to 4.2 p.c. on capital as against
27.5, 30.1, 29.2 and 28.2 p.c. for the four
preceding years. Yet 10 p.c. was distributed,
mainly to avoid Commonwealth penalty tax in
respect of the previous year’s earnings.
Until tin and rubber again show reason-
able returns to producers, the co.’s prospects
in its present territory are decidedly dull.
Hence attention has been turned to China,
where a branch factory is to be set up; much
depends upon how the venture turns out.
The market prices the pound shares paid to
15s. at ss. 6d. as against 17s. 6d. a year ago.
The return at ss. 6d. would be 8.2 p.c. on
a 3 p.c. div. basis.
Finances are comfortable. At March 31
stocks (£8414), book debts (£1139) and cash,
etc. (£29,577), totalled £37,138 more than
the amount coming to creditors (£2292).
Fixed assets, which are worth what they can
earn, figured at £20,577, and there was
£15,067 represented by the joint venture with
Hume Steel, Ltd.
The Merron Estate, Ltd. (In Liq.)
The present co. took over the then ten-
year-old moneylending business of the
Merron Estate, Sydney, in April, 1927. H.
YV. Miller, the managing director, took 11,500
fully-paid ords. for the goodwill of the old
business, but the liquidator has been unable
to find any agreement supporting the transac-
tion. Altogether 35,048 shares were sub-
scribed, and the co. offered as much as 10
p.c. to attract deposits. Loans to avoid
bankruptcy and other very risky business
were the co.’s specialty. It is not surprising
therefore that out of £23,784 owing on
advances at 31/12/’3O, only £5098 is ex-
pected to be realised. Miller’s drawings and
excess salary were taken in at £11,976; none
of it is likely to be recovered. Altogether,
assets with a book value of £77,433 at Dec.
31, 1930, are expected to realise about
£22,500. Secured creditors (so far admitted)
figure for about £1600: unsecured claims
total £44,187.
An offshoot, the Globe Trust and Finance
C 0.,, is the most substantial asset; the
liquidator values the parent’s holding at
£12,000, which is more than the book value,
after deducting 5000 goodwill shares. Another
pup, the Merron Deposit and Investment
Trust, which figured at £4827 in the parent’s
books, lost heavily through punting on the
stock exchange; its only remaining tangible
asset is 8000 ords. in Associated News-
papers, over which a creditor holds a lien.
Liquidation looks like being a lengthy job.
The Globe Trust and Finance Co. is earning
profits, and may bring in more than estimated
if it can be sold as a going concern. On pre-
sent. estimates 10s. in the £ to unsecured
creditors seems likely, with a first distribu-
tion of a shilling almost immediately. Share-
holders are being asked for £5720 in respect
of unpaid calls. Some of them were receiving
diva, early in the piece, notwithstanding
that losses totalled £15,144 (before charging
bad debts) over the first four years. But
“in view of the happenings relating to the
directors since liquidation,’’ any expenditure
in pursuing this matter would not be justi-
fied, the liquidator says.
Paul and Gray, Ltd. (In Liq.)
Provided assets realise the values placed
on them by liquidators and provided the co.
succeeds in the action brought against it by
the E., S. and A. Bank, shareholders may
receive something like Bs. 6d. per 12s. 6d.
share. Just before liquidation the scrip was
around 2s. on the market. The apparent
improvement in the position was the result
of legislation deleting the personal-
liability covenant in mortgages. The A.M.P.
has a mortgage for £40,000 over the
co.’s freehold, and the bank has a further
mortgage of £83,410 over the same asset,
which the co. valued in its books at £114,175.
In their statement of affairs the liquidators
treat the asset, as completely offsetting the
mortgagees’ claims.
The plant (book value £7813) is estimated
to fetch £l5OO, and stock (£123,233)
£BO,OOO. A loss of only £3675 is expected
to be incurred on debtors’ balances, and there
is £63,489 in cash, bills receivable, etc. Un-
secured creditors, who so far have received
dividends totalling £10,996, now figure at
£6470.
Mount Coolon Extended
Mt. Coolon Extended, N.L., has been regis-
tered in Melbourne with a nominal of
£250,000 in 10s. shares, of which 330,000
are offered. The vendors take 70,000 paids
and £15,000 cash, and 100,000 shares are
in pickle. The object is to work what is
believed to be a continuation of the auri-
ferous lode to the north-west of Barclay’s
Native Bear, Mt. Coolon (N.Q.), which is
one of the properties now being opened up
on a large scale by Mt. Coolon Gold Mines,
N.L. Bertram Whitington says the lode can
reasonably be assumed to extend for a dis-
tance of 124' chains west of the Native Bear.
Over this distance, and above the 300 ft. level,
he figures that with an average width of 64ft.
there is 119.167 tons of ore averaging at least
an ounce. From a 92 p.c. recovery the gross
yield from ounce ore would be £460,460, with
gold at £4 4s. With the metal at £5 10s.,
and exchange as it is, the gross return would
be £726,322, from which an operating profit
of £547,572 is expected after four years’
work. From the 300 ft level in the Native
Bear the lode has been driven on for 40ft.
into the Extended Co.’s property, where it
is believed to live to much greater depth
At the Empire Mill on the Dig Again lease,
which adjoins the Native Bear, crushings
ver a period of five years averaged loz. 3dwt.
down to 180 ft. However, a lot of work yet
remains to be done to prove the real value
of the property. The cost of plant, etc.,
to treat 100 tons of ore per day is
put at £50.000; it is expected to pick up
much of the equipment at Broken Hill and
elsewhere. Thus, on the basis of the pre-
sent issue, there will be £135,000 available
to further develop and equip the leases.
For the 12 months to Feb. 29 last Guinea
Gold (paid capital £50,000) received £1697
in interest, etc., and spent all but £92 of it
in prospecting and other exes. The reserve
fund was increased from £27,906 to £129,304
by writing up shares in other cos. to their
market value, raising shareholders’ funds to
£184,555, or £3 13s. lOd. per share, which
the market prices at £3 Bs. The chief assets
are 59,500 shares of five dollars each in
Bulolo Gold Dredging and a book debt of
£20,000, being the balance of the cash pay-
ment yet to come in respect of the purchase
of the Bulolo leases. During the year
N.G.G. continued its prospecting activities,
but nothing worthwhile showed up.
* * « *
At Mount Cobalt, Cloncurry (Q.), the
recovery of cobalt from old mill tailings
has proved uneconomical, and, after two
months’ trial, operations have been sus-
pended. From shallow workings near the
main shaft a 17-ton parcel of high-grade ore
was taken out. In U.S.A., which is the
chief market, cobalt ore is worth about 50
cents per pound, provided the grade is 12
p.c. to 14 p.c. cobalt.
* * # *
After a long spell Sardine Tin, at Kan-
garoo Hill (N.Q.), has commenced opera-
tions. Work is confined to crosscutting at
the No. 4 level and driving north at No. 3.
Nothing of interest has so far been located.
* * * *
A rich deposit of diatomaceous earth was
recently discovered at Black Duck Creek,
Gatton (Q.). Thus far well over 100 tons
has been shifted to Brisbane, where it has
been used in the manufacture of soap and
asbestos products.
* * *
Latest estimate of South Kalgurli’s ore
reserve shows blocked, 40,000 tons averag-
ing 9£dwt., and 174,000 tons averaging
B|dwt.; probable, 16,000 tons averaging
Sfdwt., and 78,700 tons averaging 6dwt.
The figures show a falling off in both quan-
tities and values compared with the previous
years, but the shrinkage is smaller than
expected. A div. is about due, and some
shareholders are expecting a bonus as well.
$ * # *
Since 1894 Great Boulder has crushed
four million-odd tons for four million-odd
ounces. Net profits aggregate approx, seven
and three-quarter millions sterling; divs.
total over £6,000,000 sterling. Recent deve-
lopments on the east side of the main lease
are declared by mine boss Jack Warrick to
have added 30 years to the life of the pro-
perty. The market, however, appears to
have fully discounted the future.
* * ® *
Kalgoorlie metallurgical opinion is sharply
divided regarding Boulder Perseverance’s
new bromo-cyanide treatment plant. Some
experts predict extraction troubles, but
manager Blackett is confident, and reckons
that results will confound jaundiced critics.
* * * »
Sons of Gwalia’s accounts for 1931 show
a working profit of £57,697. After provid-
ing for depreciation, development, taxation,
etc., £16,703 net remained. It is proposed
to split the pound shares in halves and
then pay a div. of 6d. per share.
* * * f
Under-secretary Calanchini, of the West-
ralian Mines Dept., values the State’s
mineral output for 1931 at £2,524.557, or
£333,000 in excess of the 1930 figure. Gold
(£2,168,771), which accounted for about 86
p.c. of the total, and arsenic and tantalite
wei’e the only minerals to show increases.
Divs. aggregated £53,125. against £31,250
in 1930. Total divs. paid to the end of
1931 w r ere £28.879,662; total mineral pro-
duction, £177,813,164; total gold production.
£1.64,873.039. Gold-mming workers increased
during the year bv 1892.
* * * *
The market expects Golden Dawn, Owharoa
(M.L.), which has taken six months to
remodel its battery, etc., to give a good
account of itself. A tube mill, an up-to-date
notation plant and tall cyanide agitation
vats make up the unit. So far the average
return is £3 10s. per ton. Natural lagging
has caused a little anxiety; still, a 92 p.c.
recovery is expected. Cinnabar is showing
up in the general ore, but not in sufficient
quantity to warrant special treatment for its
recovery.
* * * *
Golden Progress, Otago (M.L.), is having
a lean time since it lost the reef some months
ago. Towards the close of last year the co.
got 567 fine ounces in a month, but has
lately averaged only lOOoz., mostly from
development. A prospecting drive along
the reef looks promising, and odd pieces of
quartz show gold freely.
**‘ * *
“Kaffir”: By using mechanical truck-
loaders, similar in principle to large pleotrm
shovels and ore-scrapers a «d operated by small
hoists, some S. African goldmines have been
able to greatly reduce the cost of shovelling.
On one mine ore was being shovelled by
natives, paid 2s. per shift, at a cost of 36.6 d.
per ton; with the mechanical appliances
the figure has been reduced to ll.Sd. Also,
by clearing away the dirt more quickly, pro-
duction has been livened.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
Dumping 60 cubic yards per hour of dry
river wash, free from clay, into a 48 in. by
24m. sluice box 50 ft. long, with two men
working in the box —(1) How many gallons
per minute are required to thoroughly sluice
the material? (2) What size centrifugal pump
will give the quantity of water with a 20ft.
lift to the head of the box? (3) What horse-
power required? (4) Revolutions per minute?
(5) Can you recommend a cheaper or better
pump for the job than the type mentioned?
—203.
(1) and (2) Cannot say definitely, but
a 4in. single stage pump will probably give
ample water for the purpose against a 20ft.
lift. (3) Brake horse-power required =4.
(4) 1035 r.p.m. (5) No.
What is titanium (ilmenite ) used for, and
what is the value of same? —364.
Ilmenite is used principally in the manu-
facture of a titanium oxide pigment of great
opacity and hiding power, and for making
ferrotitanium and ferrocarbon-titanium. The
latter is used in making cast-iron and steel,
and as a steel-hardening alloy. The price
ranges from £2 to £2 10s. per ton for
mineral containing from 45 to 52 per cent,
titanium dioxide (Tio2).
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.P.: (1) Only remaining asset is the freehold.
The liquidators doubt whether it will bring enough,
when it can be sold, to satisfy unsecured creditors.
It is most unlikely, therefore, that shareholders will
get any of their money back. (2) Write Hunger-
ford, Spooner and Co., Accountants, 115 Pitt-street,
Sydney.... J.N.: A dozen or more geologists have
declared the structure to be favorable, and plenty
of bore cores have shown promising indications.
Commercial pools, if there are any, are believed to
lie at great depth. Hence the need of adequate
funds for deep Binkng if the speculator is to get
the best run for his money... .J.W.D.: At Sept. 30
last, net tangibles exceeded the life fund by
£37,131. But whether the fund covered liabilities
under policies will not be known until the actuary’s
figures are made available. Appearances are that
the co. is having a very hard struggle. Bonuses for
policy-holders are not in sight. G.J.J.: (1) The
co. handles a luxury line; thus it is difficult to
say to what extent improvement need be looked
for, notwithstanding that trade generally has been
a bit better. (2) Impossible to say; decision rests
entirely with directors... .Regular Subscriber: One
of the poorest of its class; a gamble at long odds.
.... Bannah: Interest on inscribed stock is paid half-
yearly, according to dates on which securities arc
redeemable Phillip P.: It was part of your
contract with the co. to convert into shares after
31/12/’3l, upon which date the 7 p.c. interest
payments ceased. There seems to be no advantage
in holding back.


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
MOUNT COOLON EXTENDED NO LIABILITY
(Registered under Part II of the Victorian Companies Act 1928.)
Capital £250,000 in 500,000 Shares of 10/- each
330,000 Shares are now offered for subscription at 1/- per Share on application, and 1/- per Share on
allotment; the balance (8/-) is subject to Calls not exceeding 1/- per Share per month . .......
70,000 Shares, fully paid up to 10/- each, are to be allotted to George Hay Investments, Ltd., in part
payment of the purchase consideration as hereinafter set forth
100,000 Shares will be held in reserve for future issue
£165,000
35,000
50,000
500,000
£250,000
DIRECTORS.
JOHN W. McCOMAS, Melbourne, Solicitor.
JOHN C. MACMILLAN, Toorak, Pastoralist,
Dr. 11. C. E. DONOVAN, Sydney, Medical Practitioner,
ALBERT 0. McDONALD, Sydney, Constructional Engineer.
TECHNICAL DIRECTORS.
ERLE HUNTLEY, M.1.M.M., Sydney, Mine Manager.
GEORGE 11. BLAKEMORE, M.1.M.M., Sydney, Mining Eng.
CONSULTANTS.
BERTRAM WIIITINGTON, 8.E., B.Sc., Sydney, Mining Eng.
CLIFFORD W. NASH, A.5.M.8., F.A.1.C., Melbourne,
Consulting Metallurgist.
BANKERS.
COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA.
SOLICITORS.
Messrs. J. W. McCOMAS & CO., Melbourne.
AUDITORS.
(To be appointed.)
Share Applications will be received through any recordsed
Member of Stock Exchanges throughout Australia.
SECRETARY AND HEAD OFFICE.
R. A. FRASER, F.C.A. (Aust.), A.C.I.S. (Eng.),
Sa Castlereagh Street,'Sydney (Telephone, 82651).
REGISTERED OFFICE.
E. G. MARTIN, Chartered Accountant (Aust.),
Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND OFFICE.
C/o A. V. MURRAY, A.F.1.A., A.A.A., Public Accountant,
Herbert Street, Bowen.
OBJECTS-.
The Company has been formed for the purpose (inter alia) of taking
over and developing certain mining leases, including Plant and Buildings,
from George Hay Investments, Ltd. The title documents are held by the
Commonwealth Bank in escrow.
PROPERTIES TO BE ACQUIRED.
The properties to be acquired are “Dig Again, adjoining Barclay s
“Native Bear,” Mt. Coolon, Queensland, and two other contiguous leases;
the lot total 28 acres. Water Rights have been applied for. The properties
are some 130 miles south-west of the port of Bowen (Q-)- Fifty-six
of Government railroad connects Bowen with Collinsville, and a road suitable
for motor traffic extends from Collinsville to Mount Coolon.
VENDOR AND PROMOTER
Queensland Gold Leases, Ltd., and George Hay Investments, Ltd.,
both incorporated in New South Wales, are the Promoting and Vendor
Companies. .
The ‘‘Dig Again** Lease, No. 1 16, has been worked for approximately
five years. Government returns show that the whole of the ore treated has
returned over an ounce of fine gold to the ton.
Lease 1 1 2 (since the flotation of Mount Coolon Gold Mines, N.L.) at
the end of November, 1931, struck gold on this lode giving 2oz. to 3oz. in
a shaft that was subsidised by the Queensland Government.
From reports made on the adjoining properties of Mount Coolon Gold
Mines, N.L., by Mr. C. H. J. Clayton, Underground Manager of The
Zinc Corporation, Ltd., and Messrs. Carl Lindberg and Geo. Klug,
on behalf of Consolidated Goldfields and The Zinc Corporation, Ltd.,
respectively, valuable data have been obtained which will be of great
assistance to this Company, especially as Mount Coolon Gold Mines, N.L.,
also carried out 1800 assays on the same lode and definitely established
the value of this important mining field. Also experimental tests in the
milling of the ore have been carried out by Mount Coolon Gold Mines,
N.L., and great expense will be saved by this Company availing itself of
such information.
DIMENSIONS OF THE DEPOSIT.
In respect of the adjoining lease, Mr. Charles Gibson states that the
lode should live to 700 feet at least. He also states in his report that at
the 300 ft. level in the ‘Native Bear,’ adjoining the 'Dig Again’ lease, the
drive extends from one end of the lease to the other and shows the lode to
be structurally as strong and persistent as ever, with every indication of
living to much greater depths.” Mr. Whitington concurs with Mr. Gibson’s
statement. There are two main shafts sunk .to approximately 190 feet on
1 1 6 and 1 12. No development work has yet been done on 1 22, but there is
no reason to suppose otherwise than that the lode should continue further
westerly and run through this block.
Extract from report on the Mount Coolon field by C. C. Morton,
A.C.T.S.M., Government Geologist of Queensland: —
“The Sunbeam lease (now the Dig Again No. I on plan) is well
situated on the line of lode, and in anticipation of the rich shoots on the
Native Bear trending to the north-west, as the country has a general
tendency to pitch in this direction, further sinking of the Kangaroo Shaft
(No. 2 on plan) to intersect these shoots in depth, is well warranted.
Mr. Whitington estimates that in the sinking of seven shafts on Leases
1 16 and 1 12, over chains west of Mount Coolon Gold Mines N.L.
boundary, to a depth of 300 feet only, the ore tonnage is l 19,167. With
a 92-p.c. recovery, gold at £4/4/- per ounce, and costs at 30/- per ton,
this is calculated to yield bullion valued at £460,461. In this connection
Mr. Whitington has been even more conservative than Mr. Coldham, who,
on the adjoining leases, estimates recoveries above the 300-feet level at
£4/10/- •
Mr. Gibson has stated that “the lode is traceable on the surface for a
distance of nearly 2000 feet, payable ore having been found along, the
outcrop of the lode over an almost continuous length of I 400 feet.
In view of the experience and observation of this authority, the
lode may be expected to live to a depth of 2000 feet.
Extract from J. C. Coldham’s report, dated 3rd September, 1931,
for Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd.: —
“To date the lode has been driven on at the 300-foot level for
a distance of 870 feet, of which 750 feet, or approximately 86 p.c.,
is good ore, averaging in width 7.85 feet, with an assay value
conservative cut of 55/- per ton (gold taken at 84/- per oz. fine).
It is not unreasonable to assume, therefore, that the total length of
profitable ore at this level will fall little short of 1000 feet.”
Mr. Whitington also confirms this opinion after having been on the
field and determined that “the lode is the same struck in 116 ‘Dig Again’
and continued on into 112.”
RETURN OF CAPITAL.
MR BERTRAM WHITINGTON ESTIMATES THAT THE MINE
OPERATING PROFIT FROM THE TREATMENT OF ORE ABOVE THE
300-FOOT LEVEL WILL BE £281,711, AS COMPARED WITH THE
CAPITAL INVESTMENT OF £200,000.
The mine operating profit mentioned above is arrived at without
taking into consideration any exchange premium or gold bounty. At
to-day’s exchange premium (25 p.c.) and the present price of gold in
PROSPECTUS
*
To Mount Coolon Extended. NX,
B.\ Castlereaffh Street, Sydney.
Please send me copy of full Prospeetus of above Company, without
obligation to me.
Name
Address
London of £5/10/- per oz., the revenue from the sale of bullion would
amount to approximately £726,322, and increase the total operating profit
to £547,572. Operating at the rate of 100 tons per day, this amount will
be won in four years. Mr. Whitington states that “the country is in such
a well-composed, undisturbed condition as to allow working with practi-
cally no timber, which greatly favors mining costs and safe working.
There is no trouble in obtaining a plentiful supply of water and labor.”
COST OF EQUIPMENT AND PREPARING THE PROPERTIES.
The cost of equipping and erecting the milling and treatment plant,
power plant, fitting shop, assay office, sawmill, transport equipment,
together with requisite offices, buildings and housing accommodation, is
estimated at £50,000. There is available at Broken Hill, Townsville, Mount
Morgan, Cloncurry and on other fields second-hand machinery which can
be obtained by this Company on very favorable terms
PURCHASE CONSIDERATION.
The vendors’ consideration for these properties is £50,000 in
70,000 Shares of 10/- each fully paid, and £15,000 in cash, free of
Income Tax. It is estimated that the present issue of Shares, after dis-
charging flotation expenses, brokerage expenses and payment as above
mentioned, should leave the Company with £130,000 in cash, to further
develop and equip the mines and place the enterprise on a producing basis.
The consideration to the Vendors of leases acquired by Mount Coolon
Gold Mines, N.L., was £150,000. In the “Native Bear’’ and Mount Coolon
Leases —over which that Company had a working option—the actual
length of that lode in a westerly direction from Mount Coolon was
approximately 20.8 chains on 22 acres, as against this Company’s 28
acres having approximately 36.43 chains on the line of lode in a similar
direction.
TAXATION.
Dividends paid to Shareholders resident in Australia (except in
South Australia) are exempt from Federal and State Income Taxes.
In addition, the Federal Income Tax allows a deduction to the Share-
holder of so much of his assessable income as is paid in Calls in Companies
carrying on mining operations in Australia for gold. The Queensland
Income Tax Act allows, in addition to the Calls, so much of the assess-
able income as is paid in application or allotment moneys on Shares in a
Company carrying on gold-mining operations in Queensland.
GENERAL.
On May 12, 1932, Mr. James Barclay, late owner of Native Bear Lease
(8 acres), acquired by Mount Coolon Gold Mines, N.L., for sum of £70,000,
after Mr. Barclay had taken out Gold to the value of £200,000, wrote to
the George Hay Investments, Ltd., as follows:—*
“In reply to your inquiry as to the prospects of your adjoining
property to Mount Coolon, I herewith advise you that, in my opinion,
the values of the lode should be the same as was obtained by me in the
Native Bear, as it is the same lode and should contain similar values.”
Extract from Mr. Whitineton s reoort: —
RECOVERY FROM OPERATIONS. —In view of the actual recoveries from
the Native Bear over a period of 17 years, and also from 110 over a period
of five years, showing an average of over loz. per ton, and, further, that
the Mt Coolon G M N.L.. has estimated the value of ore still to be worked
on the'Native Bear above the 300 feet level is over lox. of gold per ton, re-
covery over the four-year period may be reasonably based on an average
value of the lode of lox. of gold per ton down to the 300 feet level, and allow-
ing for a 92 per cent, recovery, that would give 109,6340 z. of gold, which at
£4/4/- per oz. would realise £460.461.
Allowing for the following costs of mining and operating, viz.:—
Ore Extraction..
Development
Treatment
£0 13 0 per ton
5 0 per ton
10 0 per ton
Total Cost of £1 10 0 per ton of ore mined and treated
One hundred tons mined and treated per day would cost £l5O per day, and
at ibis rate the 119,167 tons would cost a sum of £178,750 .
These operations would show a total operating: profit of £,*81,711 over a period
of four years, or an average of £70.428 per annum.
SEND FOR PROSPECTUS FOR FUEL REPORT.
APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES. —Applications for Shares must be
made upon the appropriate form accompanying this Prospectus, an
cheques accompanying applications should 1 be drawn payable to the or er
of the Company and crossed “Not Negotiable. Prospectus and orms o
Application may be had from the Secretary or from any recognise
Member of the Australian Stock Exchanges. , £
If the number of Shares allotted be less than the number applied tor,
the sur plus application money will be credited in reduction of the payment
due on allotment, as far as may be necessary, and any balance wi e
returned.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES
To the Directors, Mount Coolon Extended, N.E.,
8A Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
I request you to allot me Shares in the t-apital the
above Company upon the terms of the Company s Pro p ,
6th June, 1932, and 1 hereby agree to accept the same or any
number as may be allotted to me under the terms of such Prospectus
and subject to the Kules of the Company. nnniieation
I enclose herewith £ being 1/- per share on apPUcat,.on
and I agree to pay a further 1/- per share on allotment, and 1
authorise you to register me as the holder of such snare. .
Dated this day of
1932
Name (in full)
Address (in full)
Occupation
Signal ure


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Grand Opera Season
Criterion “The Barretts of Wimpole Street”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Blue Roses”
State Movies and Talkies
*
To Sydney, nearing the close of a long
season of Italian opera, came on Saturday
an Italian singer of world-wide renown, the
unique Galli-Curci. Two good results of
her recital, which took place in the Town
Hall, should be that the confirmed opera-
goers, most of whom gave the umptieth per-
formance of “Carmen” a miss in order to
listen to the great Amelita, will be cured
for a long while of any hankering to hear
Italian operas done in English by Italians.
The second good result should be a modifica-
tion of the theory, which has held sway at
Her Majesty’s for so many weeks, that every
t ime any soprano achieves a very loud high
note she deserves a five-minutes’ ovation.
This Showman’s safe arrival in a seat anti-
cipated the Galli-Curci’s appearance by only
a second —she practises the politeness of
kings—and there was no opportunity to
consult the programme till she had finished
her first bracket. Perusal of that infor-
mative document revealed that one of the
songs was English and had been sung in
English. What it was and what it, meant
doesn’t matter. Nothing matters hut the
music when Galli-Curci sings. She has
never been noted for the volume of her voice.
The “Dinorah” Shadow Song and the
“Habanera” from “Carmen,” which figured
among Saturday night’s offerings, have been
delivered more than once in that same Town
Hall with four times as much dynamic
power. Amelita gets her results as Chopin
did, building up her crescendos from such
a small (yet clear) whisper that her. mf
is as effective as fff. The characteristic
above all others which stamps her as in-
dubitably a very great singer is the careless
ease with which her voice ripples through
the most intricate patterns of demisemi-
quavers. She delights in little rapid, patter-
ing passages, such as are written. pizzicato
for violins. She was least effective, how-
ever, in her two most florid numbers,
Bishop’s “Lo, Here the Gentle Lark” and
the “Dinorah” excerpt But she made music
out of “Long, Long Ago” and “The Second
Minuet,” and sang gay little French, Italian
and Spanish ballads exquisitely. Her music
has no heart, no emotion. If there is in the
realm of art a parallel to pure mathematics,
Galli-Curci’s singing occupies that compart-
ment. Perhaps the cherubim and seraphim,
who know not the tribulations of this vale
of tears, sing like that.
Homer Samuels, who in addition to the
accompaniments played some Debussy and
made it sound as if it meant something,
though without form and void, is a pianist
of parts, with a caressing touch and deli-
cate taste. In Raymond Williams Madame
Galli-Curci has found the ideal flautist for
her purpose—a virtuoso who doesn’t mind
the job of creating backgrounds. His solo
contributions were delectable.
* * *
Grave doubts as to whether the Taits
really like making money were aroused
when the Galli-Curci season at Melb. Town
Hall came to a conclusion with the sche-
duled four concerts. Possibly the greatest
singer who has visited Australia sang pro-
bably the most commonplace songs that have
ever figured on a first-class programme and
the public liked the combination. Large
numbers of music-lovers missed hearing the
diva altogether, either through being crowded
out of the building or having presumed that
the announcement, “Positively Final
Appearance,” was the usual misprint (to
give a polite name to it).
Two young Australian opera-singers got
their chance in Saturday’s matinee per-
formance of “Madame Butterfly” at tier
Majesty’s, Sydney. Isolde Hill, daughter
of the Con.’s Alfred Hill, who took the
name-part, was suited for it in appearance,
showed by her acting that slie understood
it, and sang the music very pleasantly.
Jeanette Rooney, who was Suzuki, has a
nice warm contralto voice and knows liow
to use it. Slie was a devoted and affection-
ate attendant to the pathetic little heroine,
and the pair fitted smoothly into the mock-
Japanese setting. Both sang in Italian, of
course. Italian singers start off with the
very considerable advantage that they don’t
have to master a foreign tongue as a first
essential, which is very fortunate for them,
as they don’t shine as linguists.
* *
On her performance at the Melbourne
premiere of “Saint Joan,” Dame Sybil Thorn-
dike is the profoundest disappointment a
hoping and trusting dramatic critic might
come across in a lifetime. After a good
one-half of the publicity about her lias been
discounted, she still fell many inches below
the stature of a great actress, and if pre-
sent writer liad been told that the eminent
lady had sprained her ankle and that her
place had been taken by a somewhat
self-conscious and stagey understudy, he
would have accepted this explanation with-
out question. Dame Sybil showed no more
understanding of Shaw’s brilliant creation,
a masterly upsetting of all the romantic con-
ventions that have hitherto surrounded the
founder of French nationalism, than one
might have expected from an Irene Homer
or from any other stage Cinderella, In
fact, less so, for she failed to give the im-
pression that she was convinced even of her
own interpretation. Understanding of such
a complex character as Joan would be ex-
pected to appear in the voice, the shop
window, as it were, of an artist’s mental
furniture. Dame Sybil’s voice was mono-
tonous, so much so that one longed for the
end of her speeches before she had got to
the middle of them. Shaw represented Joan
as a person whose hallucinations were
merely the medium whereby a genius which
dominated a king, a Court, a nation and
two. armies found expression. When Dame
Sybil’s Joan was not sententious, she was
merely skittish. This skittishness extended
to so many of the other characters and to
so much of the production that one might
have concluded that children’s pantomime
was a settled principle of Lewis Oasson’s
producing if there had not been some evi-
donee to the contrary. Shaw’s Dauphin
is an intelligent man who acts the buffoon in
order to hide his weary cynicism. Michael
Martin-Harvey’s Dauphin was merely clown-
ish. Zillah Carter’s Bluebeard was frankly
idiotic, though not more so than the whole
throne-room scene, which was a common-
place burlesque when it should have been
wittily extravagant.
The badness of one half of the perform-
ance was all the more depressing because
the good parts showed what might have
been made of the whole of it by intelligent
direction. The scene in which Warwick
(Bruce Winstou), Chaplain de Stogumber
(Norman Shelley) and Bishop Cauchou
(Lewis Casson) discuss the buying and hand-
ing over to the Inquisition of the Maid was
a sheer masterpiece of dialogue and char-
acter. Cassou was to the life the stern,
clear-eyed ecclesiastic who sees that Joan’s
claim to being the mouthpiece of God threat-
ens the very existence of the Church. The
portly Winston fell no way short of Shaw
in his portrayal of the bland, twinkling, real-
istic Englishman who sees with equal clear-
ness that Joan’s nationalism will destroy
the feudal lord. Another beautifully artistic
performance was Christopher Casson’s In-
quisitor, who held the house in an amaz-
ingly long and intricate disquisition by the
sheer melody of his voice and the sincerity
of his emotions.
These parts of the play were so absorbing
as to serve an extra purpose in making one
forget the rest.
v- # #
The Sybil Thorndike co. ended its Adel-
aide season with “Madame Plays Nap,” a
shameless but funny imitation of “Sans
Gene.” The same Napoleon as poverty-
stricken Parisian and as Emperor, the same
kind-hearted, free-tongued woman who be-
friends him, and at curtain-fall confounds
him by the reminder of it. The details are
different, and reflect the feminine author-
ship ; business with feminine underwear,
plot to ruin Madame’s “reputation” and
open attempts by other women to steal her
husband. Sybil Thorndike, scoring heavily
off the other cats of the Court, is singularly
like our own “Sweet Nell,” and gets every
ounce of reckless fun out of the machine-
made situations.
Lewis Casson as
Napoleon recalls
Julius Knight, but
Robert Brough even
more. As has hap-
pened before with a
woman star, the
feminine support
looks, so far, to bo
overshadowed by the
men—a very sound
lot.
* * *
The New Sydney
Rep. Soc.’s revival
of Jaciuto Bena-
vente’s “The Pas-
sion Flower” on
Saturday was as
grim and exciting as
its previous produc-
tion of the Spanish
tragedy. Barbara
Smith again took the
part of Raimunda,
and played it power-
fully and with a
convincing air; and
Kenneth Fowles also
repeated his success
as Esteban.
* * ¥
T h e Children’s
National Theatre,
Sydney, which is
conducted by Fay
Hornby and Don
Finley, is running a
dramatic competi-
tion for youngsters.
The first batch of six
plays was disposed
of last Saturday at
the iEolian Hall.
One of the playlets was written by
Sumner Locke-Elliott, a 14-year-old boy, who
also produced his play, “The Doctor’s
Debtors,” and took one of the leading parts.
Hornsby High School pupils furnished the
cast of a Chinese piece, “The Stolen Prince,”
by Dan Totheroh. Youthful members of
the Children’s Library gave a scene from
Laurence Housmann’s “Prunella,” and the
Bankstown Junior Dramatic Club took up
half the programme with a trio of plays,
including one by Lewis Carroll and another
by Hans Andersen.
* # #
For bis third celebrity concert at Melb.
Town Hall, Prof. Bernard Heinze introduced
a huge audience to De Falla’s “Nights in
a Garden in Spain,” a musical monster with-
out head or tail, but with a number
of novel orchestral effects, including
some that were charmingly suggestive of the
title and some of wood being sawed. Occa-
sionally, when the piece threatened to get
as monotonous as Napier Waller’s frescoes
on the walls, the composer would introduce
a motive suggestive of a trombone full of
nails. The piece was not without vitality, as
if its author were trying to say something
in the new idiom and just failing to make
himself clear. Beethoven’s Choral Symphony,
which was the second item, was played again,
after an absence of several years, and on
the whole played well. Alice Orff-Solscher,
John Dudley, Anne Harvey and Alexander
Browne were the soloists charged with the
ungrateful task of effacing themselves in
the main body of the music, in accordance
with Beethoven’s idea of the human voice
as merely an instrument. The Melbourne
Philharmonic choristers came in with mag-
nificent effect in the prestissimo at the end.
The glorious adagio was rendered better by
the University Orchestrions than the fortis-
simo passages, in which the gallon measure
of sound seemed short by a fraction of a pint.
* * #
With Pirandello’s “Six Characters in
Search of an Author,” Gregan McMahon
brought the intellectual drama back to
the curriculum at Melb. Comedy. The storm
of ideas which rages through the play might
be expected to throw any audience on its
beam ends, but packed houses followed the
performances with bated breath. Whether
“Six Characters” is great drama is a matter
open to discussion, but it was a happy
notion to present the unfinished creations
of an author as incarnations of their
thoughts and passions in human shape, as
actual beings driven to work out their
destinies to the bitter end before the eyes of
an astounded and incredulous group of
actors gathered to rehearse a conventional
melodrama. Here Pirandello’s dexterous
stagecraft triumphs over the artistically
dubious device of putting discussions on
philosophic and aesthetic theories in the
mouths of characters, instead of letting the
theories remain inherent in the presentation.
The ghostly embodiments become more real
than the living actors unconscious of their
own inner reality. As father and step-
father of the group of imagined characters
McMahon surpassed himself in one of the
longest parts ever written. His presence
dominated the play even when his eloquence
was temporarily short-circuited. As the
stepdaughter who is the accidental victim of
his libidinousness, Thelma Scott was also
extraordinarily impressive. This unusual
youug actress realised her part in what
looked like an ecstasy of conviction. Oscar
Bchrend successfully conveyed the mental
confusion of the producer faced with the
unorthodox task of making psychological
realities behave like stage illusions; and the
production in general was excellent.
* * *
“Caprice,” by Sil-Vanq the opening gun
of Gregan McMahon’s first winter season
at Melb. Comedy, might have been written
by a Soviet playwright instead of a Vien-
nese. Its ethics are the ethics of free-love.
An elderly lawyer is confronted by a mis-
tress of his adolescent days who wants him
to take charge of and educate the fruit of
their early and extremely casual union, now
a dreamful youth of 16. The lawyer’s present
mistress, a young woman of charm, address
and supernatural cunning, comes to the
obvious conclusion that the youth is the thin
end of a wedge designed to replace mistress
No. 2 with mistress No. 1, in the gent, one’s
affections, so she promptly sets to work to
seduce the young man. The boy, in a scene
of complete unreality, tells her of dreams
he has had about a beautiful princess. When
she substitutes physical contact flor the
OALLI-CURCI AND CO.
Homer Samuels. Herself. Raymond Williams .
dream, however he is so shocked that he
rushes out of the house, taking his mother
with him. The seductress rushes after him,
but presently returns to take part in a
theatrical reconciliation with her lover. The
absence of the ordinary problems of British
stage conventions, such as marriage, divorce
and legitimacy, should have left the way
clear for a study of instinctive psychological
reactions, but Sil-Vara isn’t a G. B. Shaw.
He has flashes of wit but no firm grip of
his theme. It was the unconventional
morality rather than the quality of the play
that attracted the largest houses McMahon
has yet enjoyed. Harvey Adams was a pon-
derous legal philanderer, but Julie Cotton
scored a triumph of light touch and vivacity
as the mistress ffghting for her position.
Francis Sullivan, as the romantic adolescent,
carried a difficult part with considerable skill.
None of the others mattered much.
♦V * #
Catherine Neill, of the Catherine Neill
Players, showed unusual courage in putting
on the aeronautical “Going Up,” by arrange-
ment with its owners, J.C.W., with an ama-
teur cast and in the big Princess Theatre,
Melbourne, but events justified her confid-
ence. Good houses witnessed the two per-
formances. Ballets were fresh, young, active
and well-disciplined, the leading lady passed
muster and James H. Davey showed genuine
feeling for comedy as Robert Street, the part
more or less immortalised by Frith in the
original production.
# * #
As the result of a successful revolution
Melbourne Tivoli is now flourishing under
the dictatorship of General Mo. Jaw and
order are preserved, taxes are paid regu-
larly, and the 50 stars, including Sadie Gale
and Nellie Kolle, are giving a good new
show every week.
« « «
The all-Australian opera co. which has
been brewing in Melbourne will be un-
corked in “Traviata” at the Princess next
Saturday. Pauline Bindley, Vincent Me-
Murray. Constance Flavel and William Reid
are among the cast.
. “Thespid”: There is still a crust to be
picked up on Poverty Point. Norman
MeKinnel, here with the Boucicaults and
later seen in several British talkies, left
£14,550 when he died a few weeks ago.
Gabriel’s Play.
A Drama in One Act.
[Scene: Managing-director’s room on the
eleventh floor of Thespis House, an office
'building in an Australian city. A large
glass-topped table at which Mark Pon-
tius, head of a great firm of entre-
preneurs, sits, and three enormous arm-
chairs, occupied by his fellow-directors
— K. P. Casey, Bir William Buchanan
and Frederic Mullens —are the principal
items of furniture. Photographs of actors
and actresses, most of them taken over
30 years ago, adorn the walls, and there
is a glass case of books. A very large
window, at back, looks as if it would
command a fine view. Pontius is
salmon-pink in complexion and white-
haired. He speaks pantingly. Casey is
tall, thin, bald and 59'. Buchanan is 76.
weighs 14 stone and looks like a K.C.
As a matter of fact he used to be a
brewer. Mullens is obviously an ex-
actor.—white hair d la Paderewski.
Loves to gesticulate with his large,
white, long-fingered hands.]
Buchanan ( querulously ) : “But 1
thougnt we had arranged our whole pro-
gramme for the year. There’s scenery being
repainted, and I believe there’s even some
new costumes being made. It is very dis-
turbing.”
Pontius ( pantingly conciliatory) : “If it.
hadn’t been —unusual—very unusual —I
shouldn’t have bothered. But he gave us
—the first offer —and it’s a very brilliant
piece of work —very brilliant.”
Casey: You’ve read it, then?”
Pontius: “Ah—no. But I’ve dipped
into it. (Jrumsby’s read it, and he’s enthu-
siastic.”
Mullens ( dreamily) : “So many of dear
old Crumsby’s swans turn out geese. when
we get to rehearsal. But, I take it, it would
suit the sort of cast we could give it?”
Pontius : “Oh—quite. The author — 1
told you he’s the archangel Gabriel, didn'i
I?—wanted a trumpet solo in the prologue
—it’s a bit autobiographical I understand,
the prologue —but I told him about the diffi-
culties we’re having with orchestras and he
was—oh very reasonable. Not, of course,
that it would matter if he wasn’t —if wo
decide to produce it.”
Casey: “Did he talk about price?”
Buchanan : “Yes. Let’s get down to
business. What’s it going to cost us, and do
you recommend it or don’t you, Mr. Chair-
man?”
Pontius: “No question of terms. You’ll
understand —in his position—money’s no
object. I’m not recommending it, but our
programme’s gone a bit astray. There’s a
script we can’t find —most annoying—and we
could squeeze this new thing in. Not that
I’m against revivals, mind you. They’re safe.”
Buchanan : “If you can’t find one script
you can find another. I’m utterly against
this continual expense for new productions.
Why it’s only nine months since we rede-
corated the Garrick —the second time since
1890 —and bought a new backcloth for
‘Charley’s Aunt.’ I feel it’s my duty to the
shareholders”....
Mullens (affecting to awake from a
trance) : “Did I ever tell you about the time
we were playing the ‘Aunt’ in Brisbane and
the”....
Buchanan (ploughing determinedly on) :
“To protest against extravagance at a time
like this.”
Pontius : “But there isn’t any question of
expense. We get the use of a troupe of
highly-trained angels—in modern clothes, of
course—and Gabriel will help us out with
any scenery we can’t find in stock. Of
course, if I hadn’t mislaid that script 1
wouldn’t have dreamt of it. But Crumsby
says it is really a wonderful production.
Just fancy! Written by a man—er, I mean
an angel—who’s been watching human
nature ever since there were humans; who’s
seen the whole pageant of history and, er.
all that sort of thing. The dialogue.
Crumsby says, knocks Coward into a cocked
hat.”
Casey {with a yawn) : '“What’s the plot
like?”
Pontius: “Oh, er, I believe it’s a very
fine plot. Something entirely new and
absolutely up-to-date. Aeroplanes and radios
and all that sort of thing, and full of ironi-
cal wit and epigrams. Crumsby says it’s as
clever as Bernard Shaw and a lot less ratty.
Ibsen might have written it if he”....
Buchanan : “All I know about Ibsen is
that an awful lot of fools have lost an
awful lot of money producing his damn rub
bish. People go to the theatre to be amused
and not to listen to a lot of Scandinavian
tomfoolery.”
Casey: “Personally I like Henry Arthur
Jones. Now couldn’t we revive”....
Buchanan: “No! Too damned intellec-
tual !”
Mullens : “Please, gentlemen! Much as
I’d love to discuss the drama I’ve got an
appointment at eleven.”
Buchanan : “Ooai. With your barber,
no doubt.”
Pontius {still conciliating and’ panting ) :
Aren’t we getting—a bit away from tin
point? I’ll put it to the vote. Those in
favor of our producing Gabriel’s play, ‘Tin
’ tush, I’ve forgotten the name of
it. ... {there is a tap at the door). Come in.''
Clerk {entering with bulky envelope,
which he hands to Pontius ) : “You told me
to bring it up, sir, if we found it before the
meeting was over.” {Exit clerk.)
Pontius {beaming refulgently ) : “Ah, it's
all right. Quite all right, We needn’t
worry about the matter we’ve just been dis-
cussing. It’s been found.”
Buchanan ( sharply ) : “What’s been
found?”
Pontius : “The script of ‘The Silver
King’!”
[Curtain.]
•‘Bowbell”: Harrison Owen (dubbed b’
The Bulletin’s “Kodak” in the course of
a friendly controversy, “H 20”), after some
considerable success with his West End
comedy “The Happy Husband.” tried a play
with an Australian setting. “Bush Fire,” on
London last year, but failed to score. So
he has gone back to his earlier medium, and
“Dr. Pygmalion.” a very English play, has
been amusing audiences at the Playhouse.
Gladys Cooper and Ronald Squire were in
the cast, and the piece got good notices.


ANY SUGGESTION TO OFFER?
Awakening the Workers
Dear Bulletin, —Vic. Labor has very
nearly kicked its political joss to pieces. Now
the rank and tile of unionism who begot, nour-
ished and financed the joss.
Consider what be cost, and whether he was
worth the price. To take only one pbas e,
the industrial policy of the joss has filled
tin; State with young men who have nevei
been taught any trade or craft, a throng ot
unskilled, undisciplined manual laborers and
factory hands, all discontented and helpless,
a perfect field for cultivation by the revolu-
tionary and the Communist \ ic. trades:
men were once among the best in the world.
They were masters of their crafts, vigorous
and intelligent workers. Now the joss lias
so organised things that such men have no
reward. The least diligent, the least capable
and the least responsible is paid the same as
the most able, destroying dll initiative and
bringing all effort down to one level ot the
least fit and the least efficient. High-grade
ability is so scant in any community that, any
interference with its free development is
dangerous and mischievous. lor oO years the
joss has been bawling: "Do not exert your-
self ! Take it easy ! The minimum ot effort
for the maximum of pay ! - ’ H'is agents have
cleverly fixed the industrial output on the
lowest possible level. Drones and wasters,
quickly becoming the most numerous, have
had the biggest vote. The "mug unionist
found himself pledged (i.e., compelled) to
vote, not as a free man in a free country,
but as a political coolie, as he was bidden.
However, ho partially wakened on May LI,
and I suggest that earnest steps be taken
to .make the awakening complete.—Yours
etc., Unionist for 40 Years.
The Queensland Public Service
Dear Bulletin,— The “public service
bloat” in Queensland is easily explained.
These jobs were the safest in the country,
and pay was high. They were filled by the
"first fifty” or “first hundred” of those who
passed the junior public exam. In other
words, the Government skimmed the cream
of the secondary schools and made it into
glorified clerks. And this in a State which
is 71 p.c. primary producing.
The good of the State requires that hun-
dreds of these young men should be retired,
not because there is no room for them, but
for their own good. Unless we take senne
such step we shall have the brightest brains
in the country being largely wasted on a
service which will inevitably be starved for
many years to come. —Yours, W auric at..
Friends of Candor
Dear Bulletin, —There must be endless
confusion in the minds of a great number
of people who, being thoroughly honest, are
anxious to do the right thing on public
questions, and especially in the matter ot
parties at election times. I suggest, there-
fore, the formation of a committee of about
30 to be known as the Friends of Candor.
None of the members should he associated
with party politics, and in other respects
they should be above suspicion. On the
pommittee there should be room for a re-
tired .Judge or two and some under-
secretaries, a few business men, a couple of
good financiers; a couple of pressmen and
certainly a few r trade unionists, but not the
non-working sort who draw sustenance from
tlie Trades Hall. Their chief function would
be to pronounce on the practicability of tlie
promises of certain party-leaders who are
thought to be not above working confidence
tricks. Its pronouncements would gather
much weight as time passes, if, as seems
likely, they were able to properly assess
utterances and attitudes. —Yours, Simon
Hickey.
Untrained Citizenship
Dear Bulletin,— On remonstrating with
a youth of seemingly average intelligence
whom I disturbed in the act of destroying
a tree of value on my property. I received
the following- reply, spoken with apparent
sincerity: “Sorry; I thought it was council
property.” This disclosed a common state
of mind toward public rights which is one
of tlie greatest causes of our political
troubles. The special education of the
people in the proper relation of the indivi-
dual to the State is a matter upon which all
religious bodies could meet on common
ground; 'and I suggest that they join in
persuading the Education Department also to
give greater prominence to the subject.—
Yours, X. Cocky.
Our Cheese Industry
Dear Bulletin, —In 1931 the U.K. im-
ported 152,858 tons cheese; 133,000 tons
were of British origin. Australia contri-
buted only 3471 tons —about 21 per cent.
Onr competitors, Maoriland and Canada,
shipped 96,000 tons and 33,000 tons respec-
tively. Our paltry 3471 tons against 96,000
tons from Maoriland should urge us to do
something. With our improved pastures and
large area we should be turning out as
much' cheese as Enzed. It’s as easy to
make good cheese as good butter; tinder
summer conditions it’s easier. We have been
casting about for something to put our sur-
plus labor into; here, if anywhere, is a
field for profitable operations going to waste.
—Yours, J. W. W.
The Human Flaw
Dear B., —The men who wish to tip over
the social structure and rear the theoreti-
cally perfect Communistic state overlook
one fact —every Communist has some serious
flaw in his make-up. What is going to make
me walk out presently and put the envelope
containing this into a letter pillar? What
made me walk into a bank yesterday, hand
£l2 (proceeds of three weeks’ hard graft)
to a total stranger, and accept only a slip
of paper in return? Why do we all do
scores of similar things every day? One
circumstance alone explains . it—confidence.
We have confidence in the swift carriage and
sure delivery of the mails, in the honesty of
the bank servant, in the skill and sobriety
of the men who drive trams and trains, in
the navigating ability of the master mariner.
And confidence is the one thing tlie Com-
munist cannot inspire.
I know three Communists well :
(1) Was once a union sec., but was voted out of
office because he could not do the little bit of
practical office work and organising which the job
called for. Is a hopeless duffer as a tradesman, and
cannot keep a job.
(2) A loud-mouthed theorist who talks of the
exploiting class and the brotherhood of man. Yet
he won’t work unless the foreman’s eye is on him;
he loafs at every opportunity, forcing his mate to
do more in order to make a showing. Many are
willing to listen to him expounding his doctrines in
the lunch hour, yet no one wants him for a work-
mate. , ~
13) A rotter in every way—shifty, untrustworthy
and full of low cunning. Cheats at cards. Has
been in jail for incest —five years—and the Judge
who sentenced him described it .as the worst ease
in his experience. Was hunted out for stealing
money from a workmate’s pocket.
Something fikin to the Communistic. Jstate
may come some day, but if it does it will
be in spite of the men who now advocate it.
—Yours, Bert the Carpenter.
A Land Policy
Dear Bulletin,— Not until the sons
and daughters of the land have been won
back shall we emerge from the shadow
of financial collapse and revolution. Nor is it
necessary to throw open extensive new areas
or expend large sums of public money to
achieve the desired end. The farmers and
graziers have far more land than is good
for them or the nation. Intensive methods
of farming and pasture management mean
greater individual returns from greatly re-
duced areas. The general adoption of these
methods should be encouraged by a fertiliser
subsidisation scheme and hastened by a
drastic revision of the system of land taxa-
tion and shire rating. These should be im-
posed in a steadily increasing scale both in
regard to area and time. Thus, tlie small
farm would escape lightly; while excess and
unimproved areas would pay progressively
larger taxes, with a further annual increase
during the period of unimprovement. All
excess land should revert to the Crown
when arrears of rates and taxes thereon
equalled or exceeded the rateable value.
Further, the unemployment tax which now
penalises production to subsidise sloth should
he utilised to correct the evil which makes
it necessary. To subsidise private employ-
ment would invite abuses, and the money
would therefore be better expended in equip-
ping and maintaining farm-making gangs to
clear and fence suitable areas, and carpenters,
etc., to erect homes and outbuildings. Upon
completion each farm
should be balloted for
amongst the gang at
work upon it, the winner
being supplied with
necessary plant and stock
against the security of
the farm.
Finally, a living must
be assured to these new
farmers as well as to
those now struggling
against hopeless odds by
enabling them to obtain
their requirements at
prices proportionate to
the value of their pro-
ducts. —Yours etc., V. oe
L. Evans.
Bidding for Votes
Dear B. ,—The Queens-
land election campaign
has furnished a crop of
arguments in favor of
abolishing the campaign
as we know it, with all
its hypocrisy, lying, brib-
ery and corruption, pro-
mises impossible of fulfil-
ment, and the rest. Meet-
ings everywhere have
been upset by organised
hooliganism ; and if there
really exists a . class of
electors who give their
votes to the side' that
puts up the best argil
ments, they haven’t muck
to go upon.
I 5 suggest that the soli-
citing of votes in a pub-
lic place be made illegal,
and that, in lieu of hold-
ing meetings, each aspi-
rant be allowed to print
and distribute a state-
ment (limited to, say, a
couple of thousand
words) embracing his
views and stating what
he proposes to do if re-
turned. Party leaders
could be allowed a some-
what longer statement,
and perhaps a broadcast
address or two. A much
better class would be
forthcoming if the candi-
date were relieved of the
necessity of being sub-
jected to abuse by a lot
of nitwits at street cor-
ners who have no right
to a vote. —'Yours,
Jackaburra.
Land Values
Dear B., —At present
the whole of Australia’s;
land values are held by
15 p.c. of the people; the
remaining 85 p.c. own
none. Of this 15 p.c.
the great majority arc
small householders, and
the disastrous situation
is shown in the fact that
as few as .8 p.c. of the
people own 73 p.c. of the
land values. In all dis-
tricts save the Mallee
there is less land under
cultivation now than in
1!>00, and in over half of
the country districts
there is less cultivated
now than in 1880. The
significance of this is
seen when it is remem-
bered that one family
settled on the land means at least four more
in city industries. Farmers now realise that
the chief cause of the present trouble is the
inflation of land values beyond tlieir real
earning power. This applies to city lands
also;‘and as businesses cannot run for ever
at a loss they stop producing. These facts
point to a tax on hind values as the right
means of freeing lands now locked and also
of freeing industry from the taxation which
is draining its working funds. —Tom's truly,
H. A.
British Shipping in Australia
Dear Bulletin, —Having surveyed the
management of my home-ships at Fremantle,
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane,
I come to the conclusion that the ocean
services must use the pruning-knife among
their shore staffs. There are over 40 offices
with 40 managers and 40 staffs attending to
oversea liners in Australian ports. Their
upkeep runs to astonishing figures. The
acute position of the mercantile marine is
fraught with grave consequences to Aus-
tralia. If freight is driven up or services
are considerably reduced, the main arteries
of the Commonwealth will be threatened. —
Yours, Fifty Years’ Service.
Not Pulling Their Weight
Dear Bulletin,/ —It isn’t the man on the
land or liis assistants who are loafing. Popu-
lation of city and of country in Victoria is
about equal, yet on February 6 there were
40,291 persons receiving sustenance in the
metropolitan area as against 6660 in the
country. And it isn’t only tlie man on the
dole or the well-paid public servant or the
toiler whose wages are fixed by law who is
loafing. The heads of industries are not
pulling their weight. Maiiy of our processes
are not good enough; complaints come in
from the “East,” from the Continent, from
Canada, of carelessness and laziness and in-
competence. The primary producer is turn-
ing out the primest material grown any-
where ; the manufacturer and distributor are
loafing on the job. It is a national duty to
key those two classes up.—Yours. Elgar.
Australia’s Shipping
Dear B., —The disgraceful tiling (B.
25/5/’32) is not so much that we are the
one white nation content to allow others to
do all our sea-carrying as in the facts lead-
ing to this deplorable stage. We sold the
Commonwealth line of steamers —training
„ ground for our mercantile marine, and check
on high freights. We sold that line because
a supine Federal Government had not the
courage to manage it and the intrepidity to
save it from a Soviet seamen’s union that
prefers excluding the Australian in order to
make room for the Bed. \\ e closed Jervis
Bay Naval College on account of its cost,
stopped the training of officers tor the K.A.IN.
and then cut the personnel of the Navy to
a shred. We submitted like sheep to tlie
sacking of the manager of Walsh Island
dockyard (training ground for our marine
engineers) because be had the confounded
impudence to make the business pay. Ifiese
are a few of tlie reasons why our rnerca i..
marine draws the dole, while the foreigner
who has not to crawl and pander to muon
bosses draws the freights.—Yours, 1 RENTON.
Compulsory Third-party Insurance
Dear Bulletin, —Most political parties
include in tlieir platform a law requiring
motorists to take out a third-party Policy.
If this is necessary’ for the motorist, .it is
doubly so for the motor-cyclist, who is re-
sponsible for a very large percentage of the
accidents. Most motor-bikes are ridden by
youths who can afford to buy only bait a
gallon of petrol at a time, and should such
a motor-cyclist smash into and damage an
expensive car, and perhaps kill or injure
people, there is no redress —the cyclist is
not insured and usually has nothing.—Yours
etc., Eureka.
Helping the Farmer
Dear Bulletin, —I can’t agree with a tax
on locally-used Hour to help the farmer.
The present bonus system on total produc-
tion is the simplest and best method. Aus-
tralia's annual consumption of flour is
approximately 650,1X10 tons, or 2101 b. per
head of population; to pay the equivalent
of the present 41 d. per bushel it would be
necessary to impose a flour tax of !X)s. per
ton. This would disturb the price of the
loaf and cause a marked rise in the cost of
living.
Any form of wheat bonus: or flour tax is
unfair to the populous States, which have
to provide the bulk of the cash payments.
W.A. with a population of 420,000, pro-
duces as much wheat almost and gets nearly
as much cash as N.S.W. with two and a half
million people. Nevertheless for W.A. to
attempt to make wheat-growing profitable
off her own bat would place an intolerable
burden on her consumers. —Tours.. Valertn.
Right to the Dole
Dear B., —“Gad” apologises for taking the
dole. 1 do not. I have abided by the laws
of society, and I am willing to work. Owing
to the industry of the community (and I
am a component of the community) wo have
a surplus production of commodities. We
need some drastic alteration in our system
of distribution, and until we get it must
resign ourselves to the dole. — Hugh G.
THE GROCER'S JOKE.
“The President of the Free State Government unexpectedly issued an invitation to the British
Cabinet to discuss the difficulties that exist between the two countries with regard to the Irish repudia-
tion of debts and treaties. After the opening of the discussions in Dublin, Mr. De Valera will visit
London, when the conference will be continued.”
THE SPANISH PLAYBOY: “Shure, an’ you wouldn’t transfer your custom elsewhere, Senor, just
becaise I shied a couple of bricks through your window to amuse the gossoon!”


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4 739 012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4 300000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 iS 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
TT TAATT7Q a JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
H Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
EDwllD H MTCHIl L KNbx J5 ’ MiC - ; ° WEN ESMOND FRIBND;
tm a Ma m er: J - dryhurst.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
Rror, t, +l, Olnce: 18 Birchin L ane, Lombard Street, EG 3
SAFE DEPOSIT of
Safe Rentals on application.
Plum Razor Guard
pljaassi
THE
Lusts
PL .UM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and sin. blades,
a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
S7>e PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case-
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/.
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—gin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years , free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654, George Street, Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
THE WAY IT HAPPENED.
COLONEL: "What have you to say for your-
selves?”
DIGGER SPOKESMAN: “Well you see, it was
this way, sir We was just goin ' ter
step aboard the larst train fer the camp
when a blanky band struck up ‘Gor-
save,’ and while we was standin’ to
attention the blanky train went an’ left
us!”
'Corbie ’; Most contributors to the Abo.
column seem to have a very low estimate
of the morality of the common crow. That
in some respects they err may be’shown
‘•n a narrative which, with due apologies to
■^ r - in “Sandford and Merton,” “I
shall now proceed to relate.” Recently, when
nearing the homestead, I noticed a violent
altercation going on between two crows, evi-
dently husband and wife, the lady sitting on
a nest high up in a dead box-tree. After a
time the husband flew away and presentlv
returned with about a hundred mates. These
went into committee on the tree and care-
fully investigated the nest, apparently inter-
rogating the occupant. They then took wing
and circled above the tree, conducting an
animated discussion. Finally all flew away
but the husband and two others. These re-
turned to the nest and killed the sitting
crow. That done, a featherless object was
thrown out of the nest and the trio departed.
The fledgeling on the ground turned out to
be a young turkey. Inquiries revealed that
one of ■ the station kius had climbed the
tree and substituted a turkey’s egg for one
of the crow’s which he had abstracted. It
was the hatching of this wliich started the
rumpus and brought the unfortunate Mrs.
Crow into the feathered divorce court.
* - * * :J<
Mako’ : I was in the store at Mararua-
vvai when Hen are and party arrived to buy a
pipe. Stepping delicately over dogs, dusky
infants and buxom wahines, who squatted
themselves comfortably oil the floor and pro-
duced their clay meerschaums, Bill the store-
keeper climbed a ladder and produced a box of
ancient wooden pipes. He placed six in a row
on the counter, counting them loudly and
ostentatiously as he laid them side by side.
Then he turned to the other customers. ‘When
he came back to # the Maoris there was one
solitary pipe in view, while Henare indicated
that he had changed h ; 's mind and would
defer his purchase. Bill signalled to Mrs.
Bill, who silently closed the door. Then Bill,
mounting' a handy case, announced that until
all six pipes were restored to the counter
the store would hold the suspects in cus-
tody. It was an hour before there was any
movement among the clan of Henare. Then
a youth, smiling sheepishly, produced a pipe,
1 wo more did the same, and a wahine handed
up the fourth. Bill ignored the gathering,
except at intervals, when he .facetiously in-
quired what they would like for luncheon,
at which his victims grinned affably and
unresentfully. Next Bill went outside, and
immediately there arose a great commotion.
Someone reported a fight was on. In a
flash the last pipe was on the counter, and
the motley assemblage tumbled out to see the
fun. I congratulated Bill nn his brainy solu-
tion of the matter. “Yes,” he sa'id, “I
knew without a fight or something I’d not
much chance of getting that last pipe.
“mfta p “nt^nS'hifJ
it.” He did. HV also nreSentS Mis mil
with a flax lrt of splendid pea ches it hsnl
no part of the Maori makeun to hirhor
resentment over trivial matters.
“Wook”; When a merino ewe owned by
an Avoea (Vic.) grazier gave birth recently
to four lambs (all strong and healthy), the
event was hailed in the district as some-
thing extraordinary. But the world's record
for _ this sort of thing was established at
Elaine (near Ballarat) in 1929, when a ewe
on the Narinbool estate brought forth six
lambs.
DOUBTFUL.
SECOND (to battered pug ): Come on! Shake yourself together—one more round.”
PUG (still star-gazing) : “W-was lin that last round?"
, “Musquash”: Britain, which helped to in-
flict the rabbit on Australia, is by way of
harboring an imported rodent itself. Some
time ago the marshes in the vicinity of
BeCcles in Suffolk took on a peculiar aspect.
Investigation showed that the hundreds of
earth mounds in the marshes were the work
of American muskrats, a colony of which
had established itself there, how no one
knows. The beast causes considerable
damage to draining ditches and the banks
of_ waterways generally, but as its fur is
fairly valuable, being one of the recognised
“lines” of the trade, the creature, which' is
much larger than the ordinary rat, has his
good points. In America the muskrat is
now farmed extensively for his fur, and, as
ho thrives best in otherwise worthless
swampy country, has become a national asset
in a small way.
* * * *
“FY7”: It is quite true that the tre-
mendous increase of dingoes in Queensland
is becoming a source of alarm to .graziers
(8..1/6/’32). They
are,' as “Nux V.”
Pni n t s out, bad
enpiigh >in the ..com-
paratively settled
Dawson River coun-
try, 'but. there mostly
cattle are run,"ahd
the destruction ■ of
. stock is compara-
tively limited. Round
. .Roulia, in the . far
west of the’ Central
district, they have:
become • so .nujrnefous-
and daring that many,
owners have had to
go. back to. shepherd-
ing. There are. thou-
sands of- miles, of
unstocked ' and un-
tenanted :country, to
the south along ( the
N.T. ,-border, and
there • and over . the
border itself the
brutes . are breeding
unchecked. An
appeal for help is
being 'made to. the
Government, -. since
most of the land-
holders affected have
no funds of then-
own. Poisoning is
limit', and the only hope-seems to be Che
introduction of some devastating canine epi-
demic. Something of the sort has recently
wiped out most of the Australian tin-hare
greyhounds in Shanghai and other Chinese
centres, and the introduction of this or some
kindred plague might prevent thousands of
square miles of Australia being abandoned.
“La Paz’’: Some time ago Sydney Zoo
made a swap with Cairo Zoo, sending
some llamas in return for a hippopotamus.
Cairo has written to say that it is train-
ing the llamas to carry children round the
gardens, the Gyppo nippers having no
liking for elephant rides. This has spurred
laronga to do likewise, and before long
saddle llamas may be available there. Not
much training should be necessary. The
llama has been the chief* pack animal of
the Andes from time immemorial, and the
imported South American should take as
kindly to the riding saddle as to the pack
to which ages of custom have inured him.
* * sfc :J;
“The Padre”: Stories of buried treasure
die hard, even in these unromantic days.
Twenty years ago a wealthy American
arrived on Cape York Peninsula with plans
(traced in blood) of a spot on the Alice
River where pirates, fearing pursuit, had
buried a quantity of gold plate and other
valuables -stolen from South America early
in, the,.nineteenth century. The story of the
stolen treasure and the fact that some of
it was traced' to China and some never
traced 'at all are matters of history, but
these plans probably came from the pen
of a clever, trickster; out to relieve the Yank
ot a few surplus dollars. The pirates would
have , had to travel over 200 miles down the
Gull: of Carpentaria and then 20 miles up
a river not navigable by anything barring a
flattie to bury their' loot in the place indi-
cated. Needless to* say, the Yank returned
empty-handed. Now the same plans, or a
copy, are in the hands’ of an Australian who
believes they are authentic. lie’ll get plenty
ot abos. to -help him, Binghi treasures
pleasant recollections of the last picnic of
the sort. ; • <
* v ; > .*, . * *
"Laloki”: The Motuan language is singu-
larly ; lacking in • vituperative possibilities, but
it,.has one good, very good, word for that
purpose: Call a Papuan - a “Goiaribari” and
you heap upon him the-nth degree of loath-
mg and contempt. The Goiaribari people
are by far the lowest tribe I have ever
come across. In addition to being filthy in
all their ha’bits, and eaters of shakes, snails
and crocodiles,; their treatment of their
womenfolk relegates ■ them to a cultural
status little above that 0 f the beast. A Goia-
ribari will prostitute Ills . wife or daughter
to anyone for three sticks, of'trade tobacco,
sell her: outright to the highest bidder, or
hire her out by the week or month'. It is
necessary that a young man of this tribe
about to marry should first do some brave
deed. This is how he usually qualifies: He
purchases from : her father, who knows
exactly wliat-will happen to her, a girl about
12 years old, and' then gathers round him
six or seven cronies. The party, armed with
spears, stone axes and other jour-
ney into, the bush for a.week or longer. The
girl is, for several days, subjected to unmen-
tionable barbarities. Then, at last, the stal-
wart braves form a. circle about her,-and. at
a signal, all rush in to hack and batter her
to pulp. She is then cut up into small
pieces, cooked in sections of bamboo and
eaten. Such a case occurred only a month
ago and the murderers are still at large.
BUSH-BRED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One crisp young day from the woof of Life
I beg of Eternity,
One day with the tops and taws and knife
Of the boy I used to be,
To call together the playmate “push,”
To yodel them up and down;
For I was born in the Gippsland bush
And schooled in an out-back town.
1 will call them back from city and sea,
The scattered, the lost and the brave ;
E rom the rich warm earth of Picardy:
I will call them back from the grave.
With eager feet they will beat the tracks,
In step to the Pipes o’ Pan,
Or as brumbies wheel in their scorn of hacks
And fly from the gall of man
To the pastures green of a carefree day.
Unspoiled by the greed of gain,
By the trails that lead to’ the open way, r
The sun, the wind and the rain. '
We will play “big ring” in the dust once
more
With clamor of boy-made laws,
And wager “dakes” from our squirrel store
Of “milkies,” “connies” and “taws”;
W T e will strip where the green moss skirts
the heath,
In the shade the willows lend,
And downward plunge to the pool beneath,
The pool at the Horseshoe Bend.
O bush-bred lads, can a man forget
The boy that he used to be?
Does the past cry out, “You’re a hush bov
yet!”
As it cries in the heart of me?
N.S.W.
TAL ORDELL.


SPECIAL OFFER.
IMPORTED
RUGS
less 20 per cent!
Owing to economic conditions
governing the importation of
Rugs, we are confining our
attention to Australian made,
and offer the remnants of our
stock of JAEGER and MOS-
GIEL at a special discount of
20 per cent.
Were: 77/6 84/- 95/-
Now 62/- 67/- 76/-
Send your order to Desk S.B.
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire •
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.,
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability
£8,780,000
6,150,000
8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 .. £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1565.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
“Erua”: Cats, like humans, like someone
to stand by during a crisis. Our blue part-
Persian feline is subject to fits (he will
probably grow out of them later), and after
a hilarious afternoon with me in the bush,
during which he pranced miles after moths
and butterflies, he finished up with a severe
seizure. Having helplessly watched him
writhe and kick for some seconds, I decided
THAT WAS DIFFERENT.
DAD: “Believe you’ve bought a car, Dave. Any good?”
DAVE: “It’s a cow."
DAD: “Well, I’m right glad to hear that, Dave. I didn’t think you was a lad to waste
your money on motor-cars
to dash home and get assistance. He sensed
that I was leaving him and wailed pitifully.
I waited a minute or so, and turned
to go and get something in which to carry
him, but his dismal howls brought me back.
The fit over, he lay exhausted for five
minutes, then, rather tottery, but purring
gratefully, he folioAved me back to the house.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Nakh” : The Australian Travel Association
is sponsor for a scheme to establish a wild
zoo in the hills adjacent to Melbourne, on
the Canadian and S’African models, where
they have elephants and grizzlies roaming
in perfect freedom. Nothing more ferocious
than the koala will be let loose in the pro-
posed sanctuary unless there is a sideline
in politicians in a state of nature. The
beautiful Monbulk forest is suggested as a
site, and it Avill have to be fenced pretty
efficiently. The notion is that tourists from
overseas will be attracted thither if such re-
presentative fauna as the Queensland tree
kangaroo, the platypus, giant monitor lizard,
marsupial mole, Mallee hen, snakes, lizards
and house-building rats can be assembled.
The chief drawback seems to be the possibility
of poor visibility, unless the animals can be
induced to join in the conspiracy for provid-
ing an American tourists’ holiday.
* * # #
“Sogeri”: One important feature of the
terror of sorcerers displayed by those Papuan
recipients of gifts for saving life at sea (B.
l/6/’32) has not been touched on by the
writer of the paragraph. It is that for
50 years or so their district has been under
the control of one of the Avorld’s most noted
missionary societies. There are many
stations, and native teachers in every vil-
lage. A considerable percentage of the
younger natives can read and write and most
are church attendants. Many of the rising
generation are clerks in GoA’ernment depart-
ments and stores. At Port Moresby itself
the native villages are lit by electric light
and are run by municipal councils selected
from the native inhabitants. The natives
attend the local race meetings and punt with
the best, while the small boys caddy on the
golf links and take part with distinction in
the annual caddy tournament. Yet in spite
of all the teachings of the missions and the
influence of contact with modernity in other
ways, the dread of black magic and its. prac-
titioners is as deeply rooted in the Papuan
pyschology as ever it was
* # * #
“Kerel”: The statement that Frank Fillis
was a Cape Dutchman (B. l/(5/’32) is cor-
rect, or at least it can be said that he was
always accepted as one during his, South
African career. The last time I heard of him
directly he had persuad 'd some Afrikanders
THE ULTIMATUM.
“Yer a loafer, yer cow! ’Ere — hie—I been carryin’ yer all (hie) the blanky night, an'
if yer want ter come ’ome along er me yer can (hie) dashed well walk!”
to finance a “Wild South Africa” show in Lon-
don. This was very well done, with lashings
of Kaffirs in their kraals, antelopes, lions,
etc. The show opened at Earl’s Court just
before the South African War and did good
business until the wowsers complained about
the nudity of the Kaffirs. It was then
shifted to Olympia, and in the big arena
there some outstanding events in the Mata-
bele and Mashona risings were re-enacted,
the immortal last stand of Wilson and his
men at Shangani liiver drawing big money.
Then war broke out and the early British
disasters gave the public a distaste for such
shows. The venture was wound up. The
last I heal’d of Fillis was that he had taken
over the animals and some other features and
Avas preparing to tackle the circus business
again.
:!« :J« ❖ *
“Pick”: What’s happening to Australia?
Even the floods aren’t as big as they used
to be —in N. S. Wales, at any rate. A
huge gum-tree log drifting on flood waters of
the Cambalong was in 1872 landed , upon a
rise bordering Jincumbilly Flats. Since that
day the river has never reached Avithin a
quarter of . a mile of the spot. Gn a dry
summer night in 1880 a torrent poured along
the Wollondilly, the result of a heavy
thunderstorm farther west’earlier , in the day.
Half a mile from the river banks:corn pad-
docks at Merilla were covered Avith silt and
debris. No subsequent flood has been as .wide
by hundreds of yards. A cloudburst caused a
muddied sea to flow‘down the MacLaughlin in
the summer of'lBB4. It left grass tufts and
thistles- in the branches of trees 160 feet
high. The marks.'of that flood’s scour along
the sides. of the ; mountain-ash range are a
clear 50 feet above the level of any later
deluge.. i ’ ’ ■ .
*, * *
“Query”: The funniest shooting match I
ever saw took place, many years ago at the
Williamstown , ( Vic.) range, the competitors
being Danes." Well away from' the . butts
stood a 50ft. pole ,on top of which Was a
piece of narrow dcadrpipijig, some 3ft. high.
On this pipe Avas poised a regal-looking
wooden eagle," adorned withsmall golden
balls and colored flags. The pipe passed
through its body,,.. being ■ held in place
by ,a circular - piece of wood enclosed
in an iron ring. The object of the
match was to fire at this block of wood
until it was completely shot away, thus
allowing the bird to slip down the pipe and
rest on the post, the person to bring it down
being the winner. Round the post was a
chalked circle. On this line were clustered
the 50-odd Danes; behind them stood three
tables piled with nine-gallon kegs of beer.
The first marksman fired his shot, hitting,
but not damaging, the bird. The second
hit and smashed a ball. With a cheer, one
and all pi'omptly adjourned to the refresh-
ment counter and broached the first barrel.
This continued the whole afternoon, one
drink being provided for each competitor
when a ball was smashed, and two when a
flag w r as hit. By the end of the day all that
was left of the bird was the iron ring and
a small piece of wood clinging tenaciously to
its perch on the pipe. Karl Sometbing-or-
other, swaying a trifle, took careful aim.
Bang! Down came the remains of the eagle.
The cheer that went up from Karl’s cobbers
could almost have been heard in Copenhagen,
■ and to the' accompaniment of the Danish
equivalent of “Frecza,” Karl completed his
success by finishing off the contents of the
barrels..
“Larrapinta”: Not only has Norman
Tindale (B. 18/4/'?2) proved that the last
Tasmanian abo. died on Kangaroo Island,
but he has also proved that the island was
at one time occupied by a race of abos. who
were probably very similar to the Tasmanians
themselves. When Flinders first landed
there the seals and kangaroos were so tame
that „it was thought they could never have
seen humans, but in 1902 Prof. Howchin
found eight stones on Hawk’s Nest station
which bore the appearance of -having been
Tiscd as tools. In 1930 K. G. Thomas, of
the Commonwealth Nutrition Laboratory,
found others in the course of his soil-survey
work, and as a result Tindale, accompanied
by Dr. Jolly and Brian Maegraith, went to
the island and found scores of crude stone
tools which had been ploughed up on what
had been the shore of a lake thousands of
years before. They bear a striking resem-
blance to those used by the Tasmanians, and
tend to show’ that the present abos. were
preceded by a far more primitive race. As
yet no human remains have been discovered.
Any inhabitant of Kangaroo Island who
turns up the skeleton of one of these original
inhabitants will have made a very important
discoA’ery.
“Lucerne Flea”: Here’s a better tip for
bagmen than carrying a rabbit trap, w’hich
is heavy. Get a few feet of fine-stranded
brass picture wire and make snares.
Eighteen inches of wire will do for one. A
running noose with a loop four inches, in
diameter is made on one end; the other is
tied to a stick or peg. It is set on bunny
tracks, in the grass, or through tussocks,
over “popholes” in netting" fences, or in the,
mouths of burrows —in the last case always
at night, after the bunnies have come out
to feed. The loop is arranged at the height
of a running rabbit’s head, and the rest is
left to the rabbit. He catches himself in
the most obliging way.
NEW BLOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With empty combines rattling and with
trace-chains hanging slack,
Across the homestead pasturage the teams
are making back,
And swinging round in unison they breast
the final climb,
For well they know the ending of the busy
seeding time.
But Duke and Prince are nearly done; old
Nancy’s blowing hard —
She won’t be with the teams when next they
leave the stable-yard;
Bay Major’s blind as any bat and rocky on
his pins.
We’ll have some ucav blood in the chains
Avhen fallowing begins.
For years they’ve served us loyally, through
seasons good and bad;
From plough and disc or harvester but little
rest they’ve had.
There’s shelter on the river flats, the grass
is green and high,
And there it’s up to them to rove, uncollared,
till they die.
But stalls must soon be filled again ; the first
good soaking rains
Will see the cleaving mouldboards in the
stubble on the plains.
So lay the strongest gearing out, the stoutest
bit and ring:
There’s half a dozen colts to break before the
fallowing.
The stockyard gate needs strengthening;
we’ll cut a load of spars -
In case some snorting youngster tries his
weight against the bars.
We’ll have to change the centre post, I
doubt if it will hold;
No sense in taking chances with a plunging
three-year-old.
That chestnut filly’s vicious, too, according
to her eyes;
There’ll be some hot and dusty work ere she
gets lialter-wise.
And that bay colt will prove himself a kicker,
I’ll be bound.
But he’ll be in the leading Chains when
falloAving comes round.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


u
BTTrffP
min
m
EBB RE tSB
m
185.000biui ties* men
come to buy for next year
At the August Pair, 10,000 manufacturers, representing i:> countries,
will offer their wares to an army of trade buyers who go to Leipzig
for keen values. The newest creations and novelties, the latest in
business and industrial requirements—all these will be available at
prices that repay over and over again the time spared in absence abroad.
AUTUMN FAIR COMMENCES AUGUST 28.
Comprising SAMPLES FAIR, TEXTILES, BUILDING,
HOUSEHOLD and INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT FAIRS.
A substantial rebate is offered Australian Buyers on all travelling
expenses to Leipzig. It is worth your investigation. The W.E.Z.
Organisation will gladly supply names, addresses and full particulars
of reputable German Export Houses.
Full details gladly given by the Authorised Representatives, Lars G.
Brundahl, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'Phones: 84006, MW2201,
Or 0. N. Keppel, Box 1658, G.P.0., Melbourne
ď
IN THE HEART
*OF BEAUTIFUL
GERMANY
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1860. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager — M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 90
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, Y. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Send Your Tyres to “Southern Cross for Retreading
We send C.O.D. to any part of N.S.W.
FLAT RATE RETREADING.
All car sizes
17/6
Ali car sizes
(With supertough Rubber Retreads with
popular diamond pattern for long life and wear.)
22/0
All truck sizes
Also full stocks of new tyres and tubes, also J. 0.8. tyres.
Send them along to-day. Write or ’phone.
’PHONE BIXIO. ’PHONE 81110.
SOUTHERN CROSS TYRES, LTD.,
75 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
‘‘Wanted man, good address, acquainted with
white ants.”—".S. it/. Herald.”
.1. Garden, Trades Hull, seems to fill the
bill:
* *
“Miss Partridge had only one encounter with a
lion. She came upon it unexpectedly. The animal,
however, made off.” — “Sun.”
This must have been the lion of least
resistance we. hoar about so often.
* *
“Mr. Latham entertained the staff of Australia
House at tea, and said Australia.” — “Sun.”
It is known in the U.S.A. as “saying an
earful.”
* *
END OF A CHAPTER.
The tumult of the skiters dies; a cold
wind round the corner sighs and .stirs some
“dodgers” that lie still, and find no voters’
spines to chill. The hearty cheers and boos
are sped; the shrieking posters look quite
"Plurry ard to get a livin’ now, Boss.”
“But you won’t work!”
“Cripe, Boss, that only make it pinny sight ’arder.”
dead; gone are the clamor and the din; and
Flopp is out and Blobb is in!
That “Vote for Flopp” now seems a joke,
for we preferred the other bloke, and saved
our country from a flood of wreck, starva-
tion, crime and blood that Blobb declared
in manner grim would come if we rejected
him. We’re waiting now to greet the glut
of good times that he promised: but the fact
is here, as plain as sin, that Flopp is out
and Blobb is in.
We miss a bit the friendly fuss the rival
factions made of us: the “How’s the baby?”
(or “the wife”) —it gave a certain spice to
life. Why, old Blobb, when I saw him last,
without a greeting hurried past!
Somehow the roseate visions fade of pros-
p’rous times brought ready-made. If Blobb
should fail us? Our redress we’ll find in
harsh vindictiveness when, in a far election’s
din. we throw Blobb out and put Flopp in.
H. M.
* *
The rankle that political candidates feel
most is the also-ran-kle.
A scrutiny of the published photographs of
successful candidates has satisfied us that
the results of the elections are indeed plain.
HINTS TO HIKERS.
The first consideration is bedding. Four
pairs of blankets, with sheets, pillow and
counterpane,, together with a ’possumi-skin rug
and a military ground-sheet (if bed is not
carried), should be ample. An eiderdown
quilt may be added if desired, but for real
comfort one of Slather and Whack's snake-
proof sleeping-bags is just what is needed.
They weigh a bare 271 b. It is a good idea,
too, to carry a stout 6ft. by Bft. tent, with
the necessary rapes, telescopic metal poles
and plain deal flooring. It will be found
a boon in rainy weather or for entertain-
ing friends made en route.
A word as to costume. Care should be
exercised in the selection of spare clothing.
A couple of pairs of walking-boots are a
good standby, and a pair each of cosy
slippers, dancing-pumps and rubber-soled
sandshoes is suggested. Also, of course,
waders for fording rivers, and top-boots for
snaky country. Do not carry more than ;i
dozen pairs of woollen socks and stockings,
and half a dozen changes of underwear.
However, a full supply of shirts and collars
is advised, as a clean rig-out each day is
most refreshing. A couple of suits of
pyjamas and one bathrobe or dressing-gown •
will be found sufficient. And, of course,
dress kit for an occasional revel in larger
towns.
In addition to the usual hardware, each
hiker should carry a small kettle, a frying-
pan and a gridiron—indeed, one of Dodgitt’s
fam o u s portable
stoves, with a
gallon or two of
methylated spirits
for fuel, is advis-
able. Cutlery and
spoons, plates; cups,
Saucers, napkin-
rings and a teapot
and strainer natur-
ally suggest them-
selves. No hiker
should stir a yard
without a water-
b a g J i injam's
four-gallon Won-
ders are the best.
A good supply of
groceries and tinned
stuff is a sine qua
non. Also a ther-
mos flask and a
large bottle of
Boobumper’s nerve
tonic. A double-
barrelled gun with'
a supply of ammu-
nition will be found
serviceable, as with
it rabbits, sheep,
ducks, snakes and
even an occasional
cow may be ob-
tained to supple-
ment the hiker’s
spartan menu.
There are some
things that need
not be carried, as
they are only an
added b u r.d e n
Safety matches, for
instance, can always
be borrowed from
swagmen.
A good book is
ever the boon com-
panion of the
hiker. In addition to the Bible and
Hymns, Ancient and Modern, a selection
from Bunyan, Edgar Wallace, Omar Khay-
yam, Ethel Dell, Dante and Balien and
Leake’s Precedents is recommended. Don’t
bother about the “Encyclopaedia Britannica.”
It can be seen at most Schools of Art.
It is preposterous to burden oneself with
half the things suggested in the tradesmen’s
lists, but a woodsman’s axe, hammer, saw.
bradawl, gimlet, a pound or two of nails and
a stout typewriter for keeping in touch with
the dear ones at home are Strongly recom-
mended. A good press camera (with tripod)
is virtually essential.
Soap, shaving-cream (if used), toothpaste,
sponge, loofah, towels, shaving kit, hand-
mirror (avoid the full-length mirrors which
some firms are offering hikers), toothbrush.
nailbrush, hair-, boot- and clothes-brushes,
aspirins (if used), soap-dish and collapsible
rubber wash-basin, with stand, arc all
indispensable accessories.
Thus accoutred, the hardy young hiker
can face the pleasures and perils of the open
road with a—reasonably—light heart.
MRS. LEVY: “Pooh, I don’t belief it. How could a
ghost get into a locked room?”
MR. LEVY: “Easy! Mit a skeleton key, of course.”
But begin gently. A burst of 40 or 50
miles for the first day, especially over hilly
country, is likely to quench enthusiasm.
Norbell.
v *
When the youth stayyered home after drink-
ing his fill,
His father said “ William, you’re shick!”
Bill had taken, the liquor to get him a thrill.
And it certainly got him a kick!
* *
“ ‘Why is it,’ asks an art critic, ‘that so few of
our political leaders are represented in the portrait
sections of our galleries ?’ ”
Perhaps it is felt that their rightful place
is in the still-life section.
* ¥
“I left home because of j our vile temper.”
■ —-From Divorce Court letter.
This is what happens when a woman gets
full of indignation.
‘‘The prisoner, a chimney-sweep, had brought dis-
grace on a respected family.”
Evidently the black sweep of the family.
* *
Manufacturers of underwear are still pro-
testing against the duties on cotton yarns.
The only tax of this nature that they don’t
object to is on fish yarns.
¥ *
WARNING TO BACHELORS.
Dear Miss Mix, —I have been walking out
with a girl for seven years. Her people say it
is cheaper to keep two than
one. What do you think? —
Percy S.
Dear Percy, —A young
friend of mine who married
on the principle that it is
cheaper to keep two than one
is now keeping the following:
(1) Wife, (2) wife’s mother,
(3) five children, (4) mother-
in-law’s mother. (5) mother-
in-law’s cats. His weekly bal-
ance-sheet is: Wages, £4;
Lang tax, 45.; cash orders
(wife and mother-in-law), £1;
lay-bys, £1; father-in-law’s
beer and tobacco, 10s.; meat
(grandmother’s cats), 7s. 6d.;
gin (mother-in-law), 18s. Od.
Credit side: Baby bonus, £25.
Owing to the incidence of the
Moratorium Act, my friend
does not pay rent, but has to
board the landlord, who sleeps
with the cats in an outhouse.
—Yours, Gwendoline Mix.
“Only a fool would needlessly suffer continued
eye-strain.”— Oculist’s advt.
Yet there are blinking fools who do.
* *
“Mr. Lang is a sham Moses.”—“S. iff. Herald.”
But is there much sham about a Moses
who can get 5 p.c. on £13,750 these times?
AWAKENING,
I’m a fool. In future, when friends ask
my advice I intend to warn them that mv
counsels are worthless And prove it
o nce I imagined myself' to be the epitome
0 f wisdom, but now 1 see things in a verv
different light—l was the idiot on whose
advice my wife married me !
p. o. M. C,
the realist.
“Woddidyer mean by it?"
demanded the enraged editor.
"Well, the paper claims to
be original, doesn’t it?"
“Original be damned! Does
that justify you in throwing
an usher down the stairs? And
tvliat about drawing a revol-
ver on the police? Why, if
the magistrate—purely ' be-
cause you’re a pressman—
hadn’t given you bail you’d be
in gaol now. and serve von
right.”
"Wasn't it dramatic?"
“D rama t i c! Wodderyer
mean, fool !”
"What I said. Aren’t I
tin* dramatic critic?”
Pontius Penwiper.
* *
Candidates’ reliance on gas
made a lot of political cakes
dough last week.
Ml 'SI 01 AN LY.
He was fiddle-faced and
highly strung; yet there was
an air about him. As he
drummed his fingers on the
table I noticed that his chin
was cleft, while his nose be-
spoke bars. His voice was
piano, and he harped on the
one subject.
“Surely you are a musi-
cian ?” I sang out.
“In a way,” he fluted. “1
am employed by a butcher to
take the beef and cornet.”
Percy P.
They call it the Billet Box at Sydnev
Trades Hall.
“Wot! Readin’ a bloomin’ dictionary?”
“Aw, I’m only lookin’ up the meanin’ of w-o-r-k."
“A smart head-dress and a good pair of shoes
are enough to make a woman look well dressed.”
—Fashion note.
Here’s a sight that some people might rile.
Though others icould walk half a mile
see a girl fare
Down the street in a pair
Of smart shoes and a hat and a smile.
EXTENUATING CIRCUMSTANCES.
Charged with masquerading' in feminine attire.
Walter Allison, of Melbourne, pleaded that he had
only done it “to please the baby, because the
child’s mother was out.”
When an infant keeps on wailing,
Males arc sometimes unavailing,
And it really seems the proper thing to do
To assume some female clobber
! And placate the little sobber
Till his grizzling’s superseded by a “goo.”
What if Walter wore the potties
Mostly donned by Mays and Betties?
Skill he did it for a little baby’s sake.
Why of corset loasn’t harmful
To deceive the sobbing armful—
It’s a bloomer that the best of us might make.
MOLLY M.
REBUKE.
A man should know just when to stop;
that’s always been my motto. None but a
fool adds drop to drop until he ends up
blotto. Well, one more, only! He, I say,
wdio doesn’t know how wine’ll, as Shaksh-
peare shays in “Hamlet” —eh? Another?
Thish is final! The man who drinksh until
he'sh shotsh should be debarred from drink-
hink! He
only spoilsh the joysh
of spotsli—tliatsh to
my way of shink-hink!
The bloke that hash
to wandersh home
as if hish legsh is
. bandy has clearly got
no ri’ to roam, an’
oughter cut the brandy !
Upon the cove
contompsh I pour
who can’t walk straight
on hish way!
And when he reaches
hish front door,
fallsh
down
the steps
in
th ish way!
PERSH HIE PAWNSUTTCKET.


dbdtkmlcebey^
—tltegwafejipattofd
ftadio je t lj Irulijutle -
Mia
r
mmm
a
II
iS
| \ j
*
»?S : \ .
r ;
Li'
iH
»• *
; ■'■
' J
EIGHT-NINTHS of an iceberg—
the foundation of the whole
structure —are hidden under water.
So in a radio set —the essentials
are under the surface.
Send enquiries to local Dealer or
A. G. HEALING LTD.
Manufacturers and Master Distributors
(Wholesale Only)
MELBOURNE: 167-173 Franklin Street, C.l
ADELAIDE: Cr. Pirie and Pultenev Streets
SYDNEY: 164-170 Goulburn Street
Retail Distributors
MELBOURNE: Healings Pty. Ltd., 101 Elizabeth Street, C.l.
HOBART AND LAUNCESTON: Medhurst & Sons Pty. Ltd.
PERTH: Bay’s Transport Ltd., 917 Hay Street.
SYDNEY: Rowe Street Radio, 21 Rowe Street.
Queensland Dealers write to—
R. J. ROSE, c/o T. W. MOSS & CO.
121 Eagle Street, Brisbane
5®
1
• ' yi
■r~
silfe
bM
TTEALING radio is different, because of the care that is taken
in perfecting these hidden details - - - - because it is so
conscientiously, so perfectly constructed. That is why its tone,
its range, its selectivity - - are so far beyond ordinary comparison.
One can only judge Healing radio by actual performance. Hear
it - - at once -' - at your dealers.
Prices from £lB-18-0 to £5O-10-0
HeoUa^
GOLDEN VOICED RADIO /
cs cLc fFe re rct_ /
FOR PLANTATION WORK
SUNQUEST.
The Tractor Disc Plough with Power Lift.
2-furrow and 3-furrow, with 28in. discs
to work to 14in. deep.
SUNGRUBBER.
The 9-tyne Tractor Grubber with Auto Lift.
Of enormous strength, it will stir the soil at a
depth of 1 7in. May also be fitted with Ratoon-
ing Attachments.
SUNTAPPER.
The Vibrator Fertiliser Distributor.
Drops the artificial manure with absolute
uniformity in any desired quantity.
Instant variation and cut-off.
SUNKING.
The Straddle Disc Cultivator for Row
Crops.
Cuts ft. each side of row. Gap adjusts
up to 30in. Eight discs, 20in. diameter.
SUNGEM.
The 8-tyne Straddle Cultivator for Row Crops.
Has vertical clearance of 27in. Supplied as a
cultivator only, or with seedboxes and fertiliser
boxes.
SUNSHINE SUGAR PLANTATION
FERTILISER DRILL.
Two disc-openers 1 9in. apart. Sows large
quantities evenly to any desired depth.
Catalogue B—loo pages, with colored illustrations —sent post tree on request.
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
(SUNSHINE SECTION)
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
Branches and Agencies: BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
“SUNSHINE IMPLEMENTS WORK WELL AND LAST LONG.”


lam the Q.P.S, Catalogue
Q
V
H
S
a^ oGU
76
that you must have in your home if
you want to buy in the cheapest
market.
250 PAGES—COPYRIGHTf.D AND
ILLUSTRATED. IT’S FREE TO ALL
INTERESTED. WRITE FOR YOUR
COPY TO-DAY. ENCLOSE COPY
OF THIS ADVERTISEMENT.
It gives latest prices for
WIRE NETTING AND IRON.— We
are the largest distributors in Queens-
land without exception, hence the
big saving. Bg. Galv. Wire is 18/-
cwt.; 36 x 2 x 19g. netting is 9/6
per roll of 50yds., and No Sales Tax
to pay. On K.. Wire we allow any-
one 20 p.c. discount and don’t charge
Sales Tax.
BARB WIRE. We manufacture our own. You get direct factory prices, from
19/6 per coil of 440 yards.
GROCERIES. Any brand of any line in any quantity to anyone. House-
hold Tea, 1/6 per lb. (Sample Free.) Tinned Peaches, 30oz. tins, 1 1/9
per dozen.
CARBIDE. —In 2cwt. drums, 30/- cwt.; 1 cwt. drums, 31/- cwt.
DUGONG OlL. —Wonderful Healing Value. Ask for pamphlet. From 2/3
per bottle.
PAINTS AND OILS. Blundell & Spence’s Best British Paint, 17/6. Crown
Brand Australian, 10/6 per gallon. Linseed Oil, Raw, 4/11; Boiled, 5/1
gallon. Turps, 6/-, and never any Sales Tax to pay on any of our goods.
BUILDERS’ LINES. Threeply, 6ft. x 3ft., 2/- per sheet. Enamel Baths,
sft. 6in., 90/-. Dover Stoves, No. 7, 75/-. New Oregon Doors, 19/-.
Cement, 5/- per bag. Galv. Piping list less 33 1-3 p.c. And, No Sales
Tax to pay. Hibiscus Kerosene Room Heaters, enamel and brass, 35/-.
(1 pint lasts 4 hours.) Heating Stoves, Queen for wood, No. 6, 45/-;
No. 7, 50/-.
LUCERNE SEED. —Genuine Hunter River, I/1 per lb. in cwt. lots. Less than
lcwt. lots, 1/2 per lb.
DRAPERY. Ladies’ Frocks at 5/3 complete is only one sensational line.
Write for full list. Prices will astonish you. Men’s Dress Suits, £5/2/6.
ALL SHEARING LlNES. —lncluding Woalpacks, New Season’s, at 3/6 each.
WEATHER REPORTS. —These will be broadcast daily by the Q.P.S. through
4BC at 12.45 and 6.45 p.m.
One thousand other lines) you daily require in the home or on the
farm. Separators, Wheelbarrows, Silos, etc. All priced at a figure
to show you a big saving. Write now.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty.,Ltd.
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
0
'\7*
Vf l
lUw
/
vCVA:?
‘><f
r
jjy
Judge for yourself!
W e will send you
promptly, free of
cost or obligation,
detailed compari-
sons of costs be-
tween “Cyclone”
and ordinary “wire-
and-dropper” fences
“There! Areal stock-
proof fence at last!
And I’ve saved
£8 a
mile!”
A •‘Cyclone” fence costs you, in material, the
same as a “wire-and-dropper” fence. It costs
£8 A MILE LESS in labor, for you can
ERECT A “CYCLONE” FENCE IN A LITTLE
MORE THAN HALF THE TIME!
And your stock-control worries are over for
good. “Cyclone” fencing is permanently
stock-proof. Time and cost for maintenance —
NIL. For it cannot sag, stretch or rust!
It is practically everlasting. The heavy wire
uprights are held immovable and rigid by the
famous “Cyclone” Ring-lock.
i
<fl>=
=< >
-4
CYCLONE FENCE Sc CATE C?P"IP
24 JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced
Catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal Gates and Ring-Lock Fences and
comparison of costs.
Name ‘.iLL. —— -
A<Ur«* -- ----- - B. 15/6/’32
IT
=4-
! POST
COUPON
i
1 u I
Your Suit for
45
(Usually 52/6)
“Topnotch’’ value and smart to the
smallest detail! Men’s Tweed Sac
Suits in distinctive shades and de-
signs. Splendid wearing quality.
Three garments. Ready for C /
service, in sizes 3 to 7, for j
42/- Overcoats for
269
Another amazing reduction! Mens
“Raglan’ -style Overcoats in comfort-
able, good-wearing Tweed materials.
Every one a perfect IVlurdoch model.
All sizes
M — ♦ —
12 6 to 15 6
Trousers,
106
Men’s good serviceable f lannel Sports
Trousers in latest shades. Full cut,
with wide bottoms.
Also Men’s 19/6 Fancy Tweed Sports
Coats, in sizes 3 to 7, for 14/11
m
mm
Thousands of Bargaims/
Men’s 25/- Fur Felt Hats,
in shades of Light, Mid or
Dark Greys, Fawn and
Beaver.
shape
“S n a p-B r i m”
1816
Men’s 16/6 All-wool Coat
Sweaters, in popular fancy
designs
Men’s 10/6 Golf Shirts, in
latest pincheck designs.
Collar to match
12/6
7/6
Boys’ 27 / 6 All-wool Tweed
Suits, in shades of Grey
and Fawn. Plain knee
knickers
21/9
Youths’ 59/6 Three-piece
Sac Suits, in popular i| fV/J
shades, for “frw' W
FOR HALF PRICE! 65/-
Pure Merino Rugs, with OOifi
overcheck designs, for . . va! V
Big Sale 800k —FREE
We pay freight. Write letters to Desk “R”
• r
Ltd., Park and George Streets, Sydney.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3a.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK


Circumstances
and ——CHOICE
CIRCUMSTANCES compel some people to holiday at
winter-time.
Others do it from choice —they’ve ski-ed and tobogganed
through exhilarating days and danced through cosy evenings
at Mt. Buffalo National Park before.
During the four weeks of the official Mt. Buffalo snow-sports season
in July-August, the tariff at the luxurious Chalet for those staying more
than 48 hours is only 17s. 6d. a day. At other times it is 15s. Book
now at Government Tourist Bureau, Queen’s Walk, Melbourne; or
Martin Place, Sydney.
The Chalet, MT. BUFFALO National Park (Vic.)—for Australia’s
best holiday!
c\m
WHEN MAKING YOUR
REMEMBER THIS
WILL
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this duhcuuy,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to
PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. R. Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director:H..tell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth &_ Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
mSs. ' -Agency Co., Ltd.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
PREPARATIONS If OR SHEARING.
“Murrawong”: While every grazier will
admit the necessity of overhauling the shed
and yards prior to shearing, it is remarkable
how many neglect to do it or put it off until
the shearers turn up. Neglected repair jobs
may cause a hold-up, even a breakdown in-
volving compensation; in any case, every
minute lost is a direct addition to shearing
costs. The shed should be overhauled at least
a month before shearing; this gives ample
time to procure replacements and leaves the
last week or two free for paddock work
before the rush begins. I have known in-
stances where shed-hands had to work a
full day nailing up partitions and rails and
shifting stored wheat and lumber to make
the .shed workable, while the shearers hung
around and groused. If graziers will take
paper and pencil, check the condition of their
shed with the following questions, and act
on the results they will save themselves
worry and expense during shearing.
First, the shed yards : (a) Are the fences
sound and sheep-proof? (0) If lambs are
being yarded, are the netted yards sound?
(c) Do the gates open fully and swing freely,
and are they equipped with chains or suit-
able fasteners?
The shed: (a) Are there any broken pen
and gate rails needing replacing? (b) Do
gates swing freely ? In the case of sliding
gates, do they work easily? With lift gates,
are the counterbalances sufficient and ropes
sound? (c) Are all gates supplied with
means of fastening securely? ( d ) Are the
chutes sound—free of protruding nails or
iron likely to injure shorn sheep? (e) Are
shorn pens sheep-proof, gates easily opened
for counting out and equipped with proper
fastenings? (/) Is the overhead lighting of
the woolroom ample, and are blinds or hes-
sian shades available, if required? (g) Any
wheat or machinery stacked in shed likely
to obstruct shearing?
Board and wOolroom: (a) Are there suffi-
cient wool-baskets? Examine the bottoms
and make sure they are strong enough to see
shearing out. ( b ) How many broken rungs
in wool-tables? (c) Have you sufficient new
brooms, tar-pots, disinfectant, branding-oil,
lamb-boards? (d) Have you laid in suffi-
cient woolpacks? Better to -have a few over
than to be caught short —they can be used
at crutching time, (c) Bale fasteners? Mul-
tiply number of bales you expect to shear by
six and you will get the number of fasteners
you require with a margin of safety. if)
Have you a sewing needle and a hank of
twine for presser? (g) ,Are stencils com-
plete, and do any require soldering? ( h)
Has woolpress been overhauled sinee crutch-
ing? Are ropes sound? Are there spare
ropes in shed? (/) Are woolbins clear of
old locks or crutchings?
Machinery: (a) Has the engine been over-
hauled since crutching? (b) Is there suffi-
cient wood stacked beside the engine to see
shearing out? Sufficient lubricating oil
(engine and machines) ? If not steam engine,
have you enough oil fuel for the period? (e)
Supply of emery for combs and cutters?
Spare belt, laces, gut and list of duplicates
complete?
Hufs: (gt) Are there enough bunks for the
men and are any in need of repair? (b)
Sufficient straw for palliasses on the spot ?
Lamps for huts, and spare glass chimneys in
stock? (e) Is the list of cooking utensils
complete, and is the sausage machine, that
chief weapon of the shearers’ ' cook, in
good working order? (d) Has the cook
sufficient w T ood to see him out? (e) Is the
water supply at huts sufficient and good? I
know one shed where the tanks were either
so full of holes or floating with dead rats
that, in spite of plentiful rain, water had to
be carted to huts every day during shearing.
If I may stress any one point it is gates.
Badly-swung gates that won’t open back, or
jamb or sag and have to be dragged bodily
open, gates that have to be propped up or
are fastened with bits of twisted wire, cause
more delay and loss of temper than wool-blind
sheep on a hot day.
PIT-TRAPS FOR RABBITS.
“The Breaker”: Because Queensland
Rabbit Boards lack funds netting fences
have gone to blazes. Pastoralists can keep
down the pest by putting down old-time pit-
traps along their boundaries. These traps
cost little, and once a week in winter is
often enough to clean them out.
Dig a pit, 6ft. by 6ft.. along the netting
fence, so that one side wall be directly under-
neath the netting. With bush timber or
boards, cover the surface, leaving double the
width of a rabbit near the netting. Next
set two light boards of this width, and by
means of light springs, not strong enough to
bear a rabbit’s weight, adjust them, one
each side of the pit, so that the two other
ends will meet in the middle of the path
bunny takes when running along the fence.
Make sure when adjusting these boards
that when pushed down by the weight of the
rabbit either will come back into position.
Bunny has a liking for running along net-
tins fences and trying to find an opening.
So intent is he on looking for a hole that he
is on the board and in the pit before he
realises where he is. Dingoes won t venture
near the pit-trap, but marsupials often do
and cause defects in the: mechanism. _ Clean-
out days will do to inspect the springs. I
have seen thousands of rabits secured by
means of these traps, and: the work entailed
is amply repaid by the grass saved.
lIOIISE-BREEDING SUBSIDIES.
“EY7”: The return of the horse, both in
transport and agriculture, was forecast by
the writer when the craze for tractors was
at its height. The prophecy is now in
course of fulfilment, and those fortunate
enough to have persisted in the breeding of
draught sorts are reaping their reward. The
Westralian Government lias officially recog-
nised the revival by deciding to set aside, a
sum of £l5OO as a stallion subsidy fund on
a pound-for-pound basis, the State advanc-
ing 50 per cent, of the cost of a draught
stallion up to £3OO. The stallions must be
approved by the Government after a rigid
veterinary inspection, and the subsidies will
be scattered as widely as possible through
the State, while the owners of subsidised
stallions will have to undertake that the
horse will stand for at least three years in
their districts. Horses must be not less than
two nor more than six years old, and must
be eligible for registration in the Clydesdale
Stud Book.
The idea is a pretty good one, but, consider-
ing the small sum of money available, better
results would probably accrue by adopting
the premium system employed in England for
furnishing army remounts. There, stallions
are specially selected by War Office experts.
On selection a grant of £75 is made, with
another £75 at the end, of each breeding
season. Another £1 is paid for every mare
served and £2 for each foal produced. In
addition, the owner of the mare pays £1 for
the service. The War Office pays these and
foaling fees up to 90 mares; after that pay-
ment is a matter for private arrangement.
Under the Westralian scheme not more than
half a dozen first-class stallions could be
subsidised; Owners of mares would have
to pay any fees demanded by the stallion-
owner, since the Westralian scheme does not
mention any fixation of these. On the pre-
mium plan the owner of the horse would be
practically gathering in cash throughout the
season, with the foal money to start him off
the following year. The owners of mares
would obtain the services of high-class sires
for a trifling sum. so both parties would
benefit. Moreover the horses must be shown
annually; this gives opportunity for detect-
ing faults developed since the granting of
me original certificate of soundness.
PIGS ON THE DOWNS.
“Knockinnon”; On the Darling Downs a
lot of balderdash is being talked about a
revival of the fat-lamb industry. Experience
ought to have demonstrated amply that there
can be no revival; fat-lamb raising is not a
practical proposition on the Downs. The
seasons are unsuitable and worms are too
bad. Taken up on right lines pig-breeding
will do for the Downs what fat-lamb rais-
ing has done for M.L. and for Victoria.
One factor operating to prevent fruition
of this policy is the relationship of the
system of buying practised by the co-op. cos.
to export requirements. At present 4d. a
pound is an all-round price for all pigs
brought to standard weight; you get no more
for the well-bred, well-fed, quickly-maturing
pig than for the ill-bred, wrongly-fed, mal-
inatured animal. The one is eligible for
export; the other is not, and never would
be. The one has been fed judiciously on
skim milk and hardened off as judiciously
on crushed maize or crushed Cape barley;
the other has been over-supplied with
“skim,” is flabby and has taken longer to
get to market. Thus standardisation by co-
operation is defeating an important end of
the industry—the raising of the best pig
for export. It places a handicap on the best
producer, and gives a premium to sloppiness.
Look after your sow. See that she is
not too fat when she goes to the boar.
Farrow her comfortably. Wean at eight
weeks. Give the suckers access to a play-
ground, and spread them some loose corn
when feeding. At three months old shut up
in sty, with special provision for forward
youngsters that will fatten quicker and
give you returns earlier. Leave the intri-
cacies of mineral content of rations to those
whose business it is to probe such things.
The aid of animal doctors is not required
for healthy pigs. 111-health and slow growth
are not usually associated with good breed-
ing. For bad breeding there is only one
effective remedy—elimination. '
ELATING THE DEPRESSION.
Summarising the results of the dairy-farm
competition conducted by the A T ic. United
Cow-testing Association, Senior Dairy Super-
visor Yuill remarks that no fewer than 36
farms had a gross return of upwards of
£2O per cow. On ten farms, pig returns
exceeded £2OO, five being over £4OO, two
over £6OO. Returns from poultry were
comparatively small; they exceeded £2O on
11 farms only. Eighty per cent, of the
entrants used upwards of one bag of
super, per cow —some over two bags. Sixty
per cent, scored over 80 points for pas-
tures and legume crops; seven scored
95 points. One farm gained the possible in
this section, in which all the paddocks were
judged for density of growth, leafiness, pro-
portion of legumes to grasses, and absence
of weeds. All the competitors owned pure-
bred bulls.
The highest award for individual farms
went to L. T. Jones, of South Gipps’and.
Despite the lower values for butter-fat
and pigs, his returns show an increase over
last year’s returns. Says Mr. Yuill: “The
actual receipts from this wonderful little
property of 130 acres situated in the steep
hill country totalled £961 ss—a striking
testimony to the managerial ability of Mr.
Jones and his family. The fertility of this
farm has been steadily developed by top-
dressing for a number of years. Total cost
for the year for fertiliser, agistment, and
concentrates was £3 per cow, and the average
butter-fat yield (with allowances for the
junior cows) was 3541 b., the butter factory
returns amounting to an average of £2O per
cow. The net return per £lOO of farm value
was £37.” In effect, by sound methods and
unremitting industry, this Gippslander is
beating the depression.
FEEDING-OFF WHEAT.
“Edgeroi”: It is perhaps best to sow sea-
sonably, and no't feed off. However, we
can’t always regulate the seasons; sowing
must go ahead when the ground is suitable.
A delay may mean an extra cultivation we
can ill afford, a very late sowing when the
next rain comes, or no crop at all if the
ground gets too boggy.
Let us suppose you sowed early in April,
as I did (my place is in the north-west
N.S.W. wheat, country), and that your crop
is a foot high and thick. Well, if you don’t
get it eaten off it will be all flag, and go
down if rain comes later, or wither up in
the hot wind if it doesn’t. My advice is to
put the stock on quick, the more the merrier,
and get a few lambs fat or a few bob in
agistment of both sheep and cattle. Buy a
mile or so of fencing barb-wire, and steel
posts of the straight variety, cut into small
areas, and go for your life.
The copybooks tell us to take out the
sheep when it rains. I leave both sheep
and cattle right there, contending that the
job won’t get finished if you shift them out;
if you do, the best part ,of the crop will be
where they bog going out the gate. After
quick eating, the next point is to prevent
injury to the plant. The head is formed
when the plant is a month old, and is visible
near the butt when split with a razor. The
great idea is not to injure the head ; once
it is injured the shoot, dies and another
grows, not so good. Watch carefully, and
you will find late varieties can be fed back-
more and later in the season than early
varieties whose head moves up more rapidly.
Don’t put on the stock till stooling has taken
place, or a weaker growth is likely. To pre-
vent pulling up, have the ground fine so that
it may set quickly after rain. Sow shallow,
and tiie roots form quicker.
acid test for oranges.
“7346” : Many growers are over-anxious to
market their navel oranges as soon as the
fruit has a good color. Buyers of early
navels have often found that the acid con-
tent was so high as to make the fruit un-
palatable, sometimes even injurious; so the
market slumped and was difficult to restoi'e.
The Departments of Agriculture in N.S.W .
and Vic. stepped in with regulations author-
ising their inspectors to condemn consign-
ments found to be of f°° high an acid con-
tent. Until this year the test was that not
more than 22 cubic centimetres of a certain
alkali should be necessary to neutralise
10 e.c. of the orange juice. It was found,
however, that oranges containing a slightly
higher acid content were palatable to some
buyers; consequently the test was extended
in both States from 22 c.c. to 26 c.c. for this
season. In spite of the extension many con-
signments have been condemned by inspec-
tors in the Melbourne markets. Not only
was loss incurred by offending growers, but
the general demand for early navels was
curtailed to the detriment of growers market-
ing palatable fruit.
Large citrus packing-houses the world
over employ the necessary equipment, and
do not accept delivery of early fruit until
samples are proved by test. But in many
citrus districts it would pay growers them-
selves to buy a test outfit. Simple and in-
expensive, it consists of a burette (of not
less than 50 c.c. capacity) and stand, a
10 c.c. pipette, a small glass flask, a dropper,
a piece of muslin as strainer and a glass
vessel of convenient size. The chemical
material, to be got from the local chemist,
consists of, say, one litre of deeinormai
solution of sodium hydroxide (N/10 solu-
tion) and a little phenolphthalein solution.
Select a typical orange from each of a dozen
typical trees from which the fruit is to be
harvested. Squeeze approximately an equal
quantity of the juice from each orange
through two thicknesses of the muslin
strainer into a glass vessel. Then suck from
this. 10 c.c. of the strained juice into the
pipette and transfer to the flask. Add five
drops of the phenolphthalein. Fill the
burette with N/10 solution to the graduation
marked zero. Place the flask under the
burette and carefully turn the burette tap on
at about half-cock. Do not watch the fall-
ing level of the alkali in the burette ; watch
the color of the orange juice in the flask.
When it darkens, turn the burette tap down
to the pitch where it merely makes a succes-
sion of quick drops—still shaking the flask
as before. When the juice turns a bright
pink turn off the tap and take the burette
reading to the nearest half c.c. This should
show 20 c.c or less.
Points to remember: (1) All equipment
should be of glass, and should be Avashed in
at least two changes of rainwater after each
test. (2) The color of the rind of an orange
is not a safe guide to its acid content; a
partially green skinned orange may have a
lower acid content than one of full orange
color. (3) Navels from neglected or sick
trees or trees of undesirable type may be
low enough to pass the test, but may also
be low in sugar and other flavoring quali-
ties and in juice content. This must not
be less than 30 per cent.
PROPAGATING PINEAPPLES.
“Azac” : The sucker is favored as a means
of propagating pineapples on the far-north
coast of N.S.W. It comes into bearing much
quicker than slips, which develop from buds
at the base of the fruit, or crowns, which
grow on top of it. Sucker growth shoots
from the base of the parent plant.
Growers plump for the Smooth-leaved
Cayenne as the best variety, but. have not
been slow to realise that there are good and
bad types of it. Mass selection of their
best plants is practised; choosing individual
plants and multiplying them by means of
suckers Avould take many years. Mass selec-
tion brings about a big improvement in the
quality of the fruit produced; what has been
wanting is some method of propagation that
will enable a grower to select, say, one or
two outstanding plants and multiply those
types rapidly. The Department of Agricul-
ture in St. Lucia claims to have discovered
a method whereby from one mature stem of
one foot in length upwards of 100 plants may
be obtained within six months.
The pineapple plant, preferably before the
formation of the fruit stem, is stripped. of
all leaves except the last six or so forming
the young main shoot. The rhizome and
the aerial stem, freed from roots and scales,
is then cut. into cross-sections not more than
one-fifth of an inch in thickness: the use of
unfruited stems is designed to take full ad-
vantage of the food reserves present, of
which each bud is allotted a share when cut
into sections. These small sections, which
carry up to three or four dormant buds, are
put into a 2 to 5 per cent, solution of
potassium permanganate for about lt>
minutes, after which they are drained prior
to planting on the flat, in a bed of light
soil and watered. The permanganate solu-
tion preA'efits the growth of destructive
organisms.
The dormant buds in the sections shoot
in less than a fortnight, when they are
lifted, with roots intact, and each section
is cut into three triangular portions, each
with its own bud. These pieces are again
dipped in the' solution, replanted in the beds
of light soil and watered \vith a solution
of ammonium sulphate. Within a short time
the embryo plants, with a good root system,
are ready to be transferred to the outside
bed. And as the young buds are isolated
from the parent plant before the pre-fruit-
ing period of dormancy sets in, they should
develop into fruit plants at least the equal
of the parent form. Probably most rhizome-
bearing plants could be reproduced in this
manner.
Another hint. The development of flower-
heads in maturing .pineapple plants required
(Continued on next page.)


(=
sV
: :
i;
Ax
m
■
A tough lightweight
Made only from materials care-
fully chosen for pliancy and
durability, this Abbey Boot is
so shaped to the curves of the
foot that there’s never the least
stiffness or tightness. The upper
arches over the instep, and is
cut lower at back to prevent
“catching’’ of the ankle and to
set more snugly.
Order by post
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in both full and half
sizes. Specify width when ordering,
and ask, also, for the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN CALF 43/6
BLACK CALF . 43/6
PATENT LEATHER . 52/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 285
To Let.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
Rental, £25 per week.
Apply, Trustees, Box 51711, G.P.0.,
Brisbane.
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
INVINCIBLE
Marine Motors
BENZINE - KEROSENE - CRUDE OIL
20 MODELS ; 3 TO 160 H P.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS LIMITED
53 NORTH GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W
AT CHICAGO. II
lOIS.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
f
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention
Office*: « orUjr Slreei, Sidney.
42,400
" copies printed to meet the
. public demand.
The Perth
• ' SUNDAY TIMES
“ —the largest paper in West-
ern Australia; the greatest
7 — volume of news and adver-
Tenders.
'"TENDERS closing with the undersigned
* at 5 p.m. Thursday, 23i’d instant, are
hereby invited for the purchase of a six-year
lease of the Railway Hotel, Mareeba, com-
mencing Ist proximo, together with license,
furniture and fittings of the said hotel.
Stock-in-trade to be taken at valuation.
Further particulars will be supplied on appli-
cation.
Highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
H. GILLIES,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Cairns.
A selection of 1 000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 262 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office —
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance OfEce transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: K. V. BOOTH-
The WESTERN RANGER Cowboy Saddle
■ m
This saddle is huilt to the latest ideas
in cowboy saddles, and is offered at
a very reasonable price. It is finished
in light-brown leather, with full-
covered seat and cantle and round
bastos lined with woolly sheepskin.
It is three-quarter rigged and mounted
with cord cincha and wood stirrups.
Price £ll/10/-
Doxible rigging, 15/- extra. Special
dark nut-brown leather, 17/6 extra.
Freight paid for cash with order to any
N.S.AV. railway station.
No. 92 —Fancy Bridle, to match above, with studded
cheeks, nose and front, without bit 32/6
No. 93 — Fancy Breastplate, studded to match
bridle . 25/6
Freight free if sent with saddle.
Australian Saddles from 72/6, Stockwhips from 9/-, Plough
Collars from 25/6, Horse Rugs from 17/6.
Write for a catalogue.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
for propagation may be prevented by a drop
of weak sulphuric acid inserted in the centre
of the expanding bud.
A SP AR AG U S-GRO WING.
“S. Quire”: In the U.S.A. asparagus is
grown on what are called “muck” soils, really
peat bogs. Soil is tested by jumping on it and
observing the spring underfoot —a character-
istic of the light, fibrous peat soils. In
Victoria the vegetable is grown on fairly
rich coastal soils, but the best —as regards
both quality and yield—is grown on the peat
loam at Koo-wee-rup, which rests on a clay
peat.
Asparagus requires heavy manuring with
sulphate of ammonia, super, and sulphate
of potash. Super, at the rate of Scwt. per
acre Avith 2cwt. of sulphate of potash is
applied broadcast in the autumn, IcAVt. of
sulphate of ammonia being used as a top-
dressing in the spring. Two dressings of
4cwt. are really better than a single dress-
ing of lewt.
Salt is recognised as being useful Avhen
applied after the crowns begin to shoot beloiv
the surface. The rate of application is from
Scwt. to lOcwt. per acre. It Avas once
thought that salt was essential in asparagus
culture, but this fallacy has long since been
exploded. Sulphate of magnesia (Epsom
salts) gives good results when a dressing of
2ewt. per acre is applied in the autumn.
Provided a suitable soil is obtained, it is
not a hard task to groAV good stuff —and good
stuff pays. It costs just as much to grow
harsh, badly-colored asparagus as to grow
the prime sticks sought by the public, so that
it pays to fertilise the crop and to give it
the requisite attention.
There are many A'arieties available for
trial. If deemed advisable, seed may be
bought and raised, in which case only the
large crowns are selected for growing on.
If quick returns are looked for, the best
plan is to purchase tAvo-year-old crowns of
a standard variety, such as Conover’s Colos-
sal. Remember that the sticks deteriorate
after picking. They should be bunched,
packed and sent to market at the earliest
moment. In U.S.A. the bunches arc packed
in wet moss. A good scheme is to market
them avrapped in tissue-paper, branded and
dated so that the purchaser can see the date
of picking and will seek your product.
Should the asparagus be unwrapped prior to
selling, your name Avill not be affected.
PORTABI ,E FOWU-SHEDS.
“Mulyan”; On cane farms in North
Queensland portable foAvl-houses are used,
principally at ploughing time, when cane-
beetle grubs are turned up. The foAvls
wander over the ground, picking up (hose
on the surface and scratching up others.
Expense is thus saved in the annual destruc-
tion of beetles and heavy loss of cane; the
fowls support themselves and help to break
up and manure the ground.
The idea could be used Avith advantage
on almo’st any farm where there is
no danger of damaging unharvested crops.
On many fields large white grubs which
feed on roots of grass and crops are
numerous. It is common to see kooka-
burras and magpies following the plough
and picking these up. Fowls Avould do the
same; and caterpillars and white ants Avould
be destroyed, by them. One prevalent pest that
fowls are fond of is the grasshopper; these
are eaten in the Avingless stage before
they can do much damage. In the Avhoat
and maize fields much grain falls to the
ground and is Avasted, but if the domestic
flock is turned into those fields after liar-
it is all gathered up and saves the
expense of other feeding.
The portable shed may be only 10ft. by
12ft., built of light wood, walled and roofed
Avith galvanised iron, and mounted on wooden
wheels, sawn off a log. Tlie roosts snould
also be light, and rise step by step from
near the ground in the centre to the Avall-
plate at each end. With an eyebolt to
hook a chain to in one of the axles (in an
ordinary building, the end sleeper), the shed
can be drawn by one horse to any place re-
quired. It must be shifted early in the morn-
ing before the fowls arc let out., It is not
necessary to shut them in every night, un-
less there are native cats, foxs or carpet-
snakes about; but they must be shut in
the night before the shed is to be moved to
another feeding-ground. The door should
face the sun, hut preferably the east, and
water should be placed against the shed on
the shaded side. But laying hens can’t be
included in this flock. The thing is to get
young foAvls used to roosting in the shed
before it is first shifted. Other fowls that
are not laying can be added at any time.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Price of a banana plantation in N.
S. Wales as a going concern? (2) Price of
suitable land, unimproved? (3) Return per
acre? (4) Period before return can be
expected if new palms were planted? (5)
Life of palms? (6) Capital required to
make a profit of £lOOO a year? (7) Where
is the industry now being carried on in
the State? (8) Market prospects in future
years? —lo2.
(1) £7O to £lOO per acre. (2) £lO to
£2O per acre, freehold; leasehold, about £5
per acre per year. (3) 100 to 300 cases
per acre, according to land, situation and
attention. (4) 18 months from planting,
or two years from clearing of soil. (5)
From five to ten years according to soil
and attention. Profitable life can be ex-
tended by application of fertilisers. (6)
That depends on too many variable factors
to make a definite answer possible. (7)
From Coil’s Harbor to Tweed Heads. (S)
Prospects are good for high-quality fruit.
Owing to the rapid extension in areas
during the past two seasons the price of
lower-grade fruits are likely to fall owing
to increased production.
Best varieties of early, mid-season and
late (1) peaches, (2) apricots, and (3)
nectarines for far western JY. S. Wales?
(4) Will almond-trees grown from the nut
bear nuts the same as the nut planted? —6s.
(1) Le Vainquer. Zerbes Ear’y. Iligh’s
Early Canada, Wiggins, Carman, Blackburn
and Dripstone Elberta. Two of the canning
clingstones which come in later than Drip-
stone Elberta. Golden Queen and Pullars
Cling, could also be grown, provided there
is an ample water supply. (2) Irrewarra.
Golden Queen. (3) Ouillins Early Peach.
Trevatt and Mansfield. (4) Trees raised
from seed cannot be relied upon to come
true to name. Budded trees can be procured
from nurserymen.
Spray to kill pumpkin beetles? —139.
N.S.W. Agriculture Department recom-
mends a proprietary insecticide called Mazu.
I intend using sulphate of zinc as a dress-
ing for blowflies on sheep. Must I use an
earthenware containerf —9875.
It is preferable. Tins are liable to rust.
When and how to prune tea-trees and
hybrid tea-trees ? —260.
They should have their severest pruning
in November after the spring flowering,
when long shoots should be cut right away,
so as to force new leading shoots to ripen
during the summer, for flowering in the
autumn and in the next year. At such a
time, also the laterals which have carried
flowers should be cut back to one or two
buds. Winter pruning consists in cutting
out thin and overcrowded shoots, slightly
shortening back the long new runners, and
tying them into position. These runners
should be so tied that in a year or two they
can be easily cut away. Fortune Yellow
should not be pruned at all unless for the
purpose of keeping it within bounds, and
this cutting, if necessary, should be done
early in November.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Disc Harrow”: A new way of dealing
with the mouse plague is reported from Vic-
toria, where a farmer treated his wheat stack
on rabbit-burrow lines. He roofed it and
made it as airtight as possible with bag
curtains, then led' a pipe from the exhaust
of his car and introduced the fumes inside.
All mice were duly exterminated; but it
seems a doubtful precedent. To treat any-
thing to be used for human or animal food
with poisons, gaseous or otherwise, doesn’t
sound advisable.
“Marsh”: “C. Q. Coast” (B. 4/5/’32)
advises burning-off felled scrub with the
breeze. I say burn against the breeze : then
the fire burns slowly and thoroughly. Burn-
ing “C. Q. Coast’s” way, the fire will gallop
through the felled scrub if a strong breeze
comes up, and the burn-off will be valueless.
“Yarcoo”: A handy contrivance to hold
up the teat-cups when the cows are milking
poorly can be made by nailing two square
boards together after the style of the old-
fashioned wall-bracket. The shelf-board is.
placed on the floor with the bracket upper-
most. Room is left on top to hold tin 1
stems of the cups, then it is sawn down an
inch on either side and the piece split off.
This can be repeated, and you have a stand
which will fit cows of varying heights and
is light and easy to move about. A hole
should be bored in the edge of each step
and a nail inserted to prevent the cups slip-
ping off.
“Minthall”: Sudan grass lias a habit oi
crossing with any close-sown sorghum crop.
These hybrids can be immediately noticed in
a crop; growth is heavier and lias? a large
busily head. If you are grazing or saving
seed, yank them out; they are the cause of
the stock-poisoning now and then com-
plained of. There have been no cases of
poisoning from grazing on pure Sudan crops.
When sowing for grazing, get the purest seed
you can.
“Dimon” : A simple way of dehairing a hide
is to cover the hairy .side with clean wood
ashes, moisten with water, and roll or fold
the hide up tightly. In a week or ten days
the hair will scrape off easily.
“Cockyson”: “Friar Tuck’s” advice (B.
20/4/’32) not to pack citrus fruit in half-
bushel cases is not good advice for all parts.
Many Bananaland growers pack a propor-
tion of each Aveek’s consignments in half-
cases, with satisfactory results; household-
ers attend the local fruit sales, and it is
the half-case they usually carry off. More-
over, Cantor or Emperor mandarins are apt.
to become badly crushed when packed in
bushel-cases over a long journey.
“E.H.M.”: North Coast (N.S.W.) beans
are showing signs of wilt and paling foliage
—a sure indication of bacterial blight. In
the winter of ’29 I sprinkled sulphate of
ammonia along a few of the rows before
dropping in the seed. Seven weeks later,
when the fertilised patch of beans liad
flowered, I again dusted the rows with the
sulphate. Untreated beans had already shown
signs of blight and did not flower until a
week later. Eleven weeks after planting the
ammoniated patch was ready for picking, and
it continued free from blight until the last
bean had been picked 10 weeks later. On the
unfertilised patch after the third picking
the blight had become so bad that not a
marketable bean could be found.
“Concrete”: When harvesting the pump-
kins and marrows be careful that storage
methods do not send them bad. Place them
so that the crown will be doAA-n. This alloAvs
the sap to drop out from the stem join
should the growth be a little green.
“Gumblegubbin”: It is a bad practice to
shut ducks and geese up at night in the
fowlhouse, as is done by many farmers.
Under the droppings from the roosts they
are uncomfortable and restless, and that,
too, disturbs the hens. Where there are
no roosts at the sides, that space is wanted
for nesting boxes. Ducks should have a
separate shelter, a IoAV-roofed shed with a
small open run attached, and conveniences
for laying. As well as laying at night, they
moAm about a lot where they have room, and
often prefer to nestle doAvn in the open. In
suitable weather it is healthier for the flock
than being huddled together in a fouled shed.
In the morning they should have access to
water to clean themselves.
“Valerin”: At the beginning of the year
the estimated number of sheep in N. S.
Wales was 52 millions; a record lambing is
anticipated, and it may bring the total to
66 millions. Allowing for an annual con-
sumption of seven millions and losses of four
millions from natural causes, avc may start
1933 with 56 millions —more than half the
Australian total. These figures are above
the red line of danger. A drought would
mean disaster. Banks and financial houses
should give owners every reasonable encour-
agement to build up large fodder reserves.
At present prices of wool and sheep very
few could afford to buy fodder.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
reader's.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing- and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible
Wants.
Man (28), some exp., wants work in city photo-
grapher’s studio. Q’land preferred.-—246.
To buy book on preparing- sheep for shows. —197.
To buy second-hand Truline brick machine.—2o6.
To buy Centralian skystones.-—220.
To buy Bryant and May’s book on the making- of
children’s toys.;—2s4.
Words of verse “The Horse that Died for Me.”
—236.
Whereabouts of Thomas Wood (80), who left
Five Ways, Darlcston, Staffordshire (England), 50
years ago and resided in Melbourne, Adelaide and
Sydney, or of any of liis descendants. —282.
Information Sought.
.(1) Dimensions, type and cost of u sailing
dinghy, best type suitable for a youth?
(2) What rig? (3) Name of a book on
dinghy building and sailing? (4) On square-
rigged ships? (5) Any Australian yacht-
ing periodicals? —lo3.
(1) A 32ft. boat of the “cadet” type, A
good builder would charge about £45. (2)
The cadet class arc lug-rigged and must con-
form to set rules if you wish to race your
boat in this class. (3) and (4) Any ency-
clopaedia will give you the elements of the
various square rigs.' (5) “Australian Motor
Boat and Yachting Monthly,” Sydney.
Who first gave circulation to the story
regarding Newton and the apple, and is there,
any proof that the story is true? —l96.
Voltaire, who told the story, said he had
it from Newton’s favorite niece, Catharine
Barton. Tradition marked a tree as
that from which the apple fell, till 1820,
when, owing to decay, the tree was cut
down, its wood being carefully preserved.
There is nothing in the story improbable to
those who have studied the methods whereby
Newton’s highly original mind attempted the
discovery of natural laws.
I believe I am entitled to some money left
to me by a person who died recently. How
can I make sure, and how should 1 claim
for the money? —ls4.
If the will was lodged for probate in
N. S. Wales it may be inspected, fee 25., on
application to Registrar of Probates,
Supreme Court, Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
Give full name, address and date or approxi-
mate date of testator’s death. If you are
a beneficiary, communicate with the executors
of the will.
(1) Is it quite certain that the eye accom-
modates its focus for objects at different
distances by internal muscular mechanism,
or do external muscles exert pressure on
the lens and alter its focus? (2) Is it a
general'practice to use glasses for an astig-
matism that requires only .25 cylinder, or
could that lens be done without? (3)
What is the best home treatment for eyes
that arc practically emmetropic but have
been strained by wearing unsuitable glasses?
(1) Accommodation takes place inside
the eye, and is not influenced by external
muscles. (2) A 0.25 cylinder correction
will relieve strain and its symptoms in most
cases. (3) Rectification of the trouble is
not within the scope of home treatment.
(1) What were the circumstances in
which R. L. Stevenson penned his famous
defence of Father Damien? (2) Any litera-
ture concerning Darnicn other than the
Stevenson tract? —2ll.
Father Damien (secular name, Joseph De
Veuster), was a missionary who devoted his
life to the welfare of the lepers, deported by
the Hawaiian Government to the island of
Molokai. He became stricken with leprosy
in 1885 and succumbed to the disease in
1889, Stevenson’s defence was a reply to
allegations made by a Presbyterian minister.
(2) There are biographies by E. Clifford
(iBS9), Cook (1889) and Father Pamphile
(1885) ; and Father Damien’s work is re-
corded in “The Lepers of Molokai,” bv Stod-
dard (1885).
How is. collodion made and. what are its
characteristics and uses? —212.
It is a thick colorless liquid,. obtained by
dissolving pyroxylin in a mixture of ether
and alcohol. This liquid evaporates quickly
<>n exposure to air leaving a transparent but
matt-surfaced film of pyroxylin. This form
of collodion is principally used in photo-
graphy. The addition of castor oil and
Canada balsam provides a flexible adhesive
covering for wounds. Salicylic acid and
Indian hemp added to the ordinary collo-
dion form a corn cure.
I understand that during the past 50 years
the Caroline and Marshall Islands have been
ruled by the Spaniards, Germans and
Japanese. Have these changes of rulers
affected the religious beliefs of the natives,
and what missions operate there to-day? —
215.
During the Spanish and German regimes
many natives embraced Christianity. The
Congregational Church of Japan dis-
patched evangelists after Japan took over,
and the Japanese Government also offered
the Roman Catholic Church missionary
facilities. Since 1921 there lias been an
influx of Spanish priests, and missionaries
belongs g to tlie Liebenzellen denomination
have lately returned to the territory. In
addition a couple of Japanese sects, non-
Christian, have commenced the propagation
of their creeds. No figures are available as
to which body commands the largest fol-
lowing.
How to play three-handed euchre? —2l4.
This is the “cut-throat” game, each
player for IV nself. Points are the same as
in the two-handed or four-handed game, but
if the challenging player is euchred each of
his adversaries scores two points. If this
should carry both “out,” the elder hand is
the winner. There is a variant of the game
in which points for the euchre are deducted
from the score of the euchred player, who is
“set back” accordingly. Should he have made
no points he is considered to owe the points.
(1) When did the kuri or Maori dog
become extinct? (2) Was it indigenous to
Maorilund? (3) What, was its breed? —216.
(1) It is difficult to fix an exact date
because for many years wild dogs, probably
a cross between the Maori dog and dogs
brought by Europeans, infested several dis-
tricts in both the North and South Islands,
and were confused with the Maori dog. It is
probable that the pure Maori dog became
extinct about 1885, (2) It is believed that
the animal was brought by the Maoris from
Ilawaiki. (3) It was small with a pointed
nose, pricked ears and very small eyes. In
color it; was white, black, brown or parti-
colored, and it had long- bair, short logs, a
bushy tail. It did not bark but could emit
a loud whine.
What is the scientific explanation of the
disposition of mankind to use the right hand
in preference to the left? —259.
Attempted physiological explanations are
unconvincing. The most feasible theorv is
that in combat the left hand is most con-
venient for the passive business of shielding
the heart, leaving the right hand for aggros
si on.
How to make photographic portraits in
silhouette? —-258.
Place the sitter in front of a white muslin
sheet, the only illumination being provided
by a flash-lamp or a couple of inches of
magnesium ribbon burnt behind the screen.
The figure should be focussed as sharply as
possible on uie ground glass and the exposure
should be very short. Prints of the subject
in white, with a black background, can be
taken from a negative made by contact-
printing from the original negative.
(1) How is crystal-gazing carried out?
(2) What is the attitude of scientists to-
wards it?-- 226.
(1) It is usual to place a glass ball on
a (lark ground, to sit with the back to' the
light, to focus the gaze on the ball, and
await results. Some people see, imagine they
see, or say they see, visions in the ball, some-
times stationary and in monochrome; some-
times in natural colors and moving. (2)
Sceptical. From the nature of the case most
of the claims of the crystal-gazers are incap-
able of proof.
Is there a harbor suitable for deep-sea
vessels north of Newcastle in N. S. Wales?
—172.
Yes. Steamers trading with M.L. use Port
Stephens, Goff’s Harbor and Clarence River,
and an oversea vessel lias berthed and loaded
timber at the jetty at Byron Bay.
Is it a fact that in the latter years of
the war it was the practice to send the only
remaining member of a family serving with
the A.I.F. back to Australia to carry on the
line? —92B2.
In a number of cases where several of a
man’s brothers had been killed and he could
show that it was important for family rea-
sons that he should return to Australia,
approval to this course was given. Each
case was dealt with on its merits.
Under N.S.W. law when can the death be
presumed, of a beneficiary under a will who
has not bceti heard of for ten years? Every
effort has been made to trace him without
success. —2lO.
Where evidence of continued unexplained
absence from home is given and there has
been no intelligence received concerning a
person for seven years, the law presumes
death, but raises no presumption as to the
time of his death. If that is required it
must be proved. If satisfactory proof can-
not be produced to the executors they can
apply to the Court of Equity to make an
order appointing a trustee to hold the money
on behalf of the beneficiary until satisfactory
proof of death is produced.
(1) Did passenger trains run on the North
Coast line of N.S.W. as far as Gloucester in
1895? (2) Were sleeping carriages used?
(3) Were the carriages lighted at night by
oil or gas? —9s42.
(1) No. The railway line from Dungog
to Taree—Gloucester is about midway be-
tween the two —was opened for traffic on
Feb. 4, 1913. (2) At the date of opening
for traffic sleeping cars were not used o'n
the North Coast line; trains were run
during the daytime. (3) Gas.
(1) Where, when and by whom was the
first Rotary Club in Australia formed? (2)
Same information'regarding the first Rotary
Club in the world? —23o.
(1) In Melbourne, April, 1921, by J W
Davidson and Col. Layton Ralston, two
Canadians, who were Commissioners for the
Rotary International. (2) In Chicago, Feb.,
1905. The notion originated with Paul
Hams, a lawyer of that city.
(1) Is the sea leopard to be found in Aus-
tralian waters? (2) Row does it gets its
name. (3) What size does it attain? —23s
. u breedin S grounds are in the An-
tarctic, but occasional stragglers visit the
southern Australian coasts. (2) It is
spotted. _ (3) Ten feet long.
Principal dimensions of (1) the U.S A
peUn?~\m le Akron> and the &>'«f Zep-
(l) Length over all, 785 ft.; maximum
diameter, 132.9 ft.; height over all, 146.5 ft-
.r e ’ 6 ’ 50 ? 000 ™bic feet; gross lift.
4Uo.0001b.; number of engines. 8 • total
horsepower, 4480; maximum speed, 84 miles
per hour; cruising range, 10,580 miles, (2i
Length over all, 770 ft.; maximum diameter,
100 ft.; height over all, 132 ft.; maximum
diameter, 100 ft.; height over all, 132 ft.; gas
volume, 3,700,,000 cubic feet: gross lift.
258,0001 b.; number of engines, 5; total
horsepower, 2750; maximum speed, 80 miles
per hour; cruising range, 0125 miles.
How to prevent the loud-speaker from
rattling each time a powerful station is
tuned inf- —229.
Disconnect the speaker from the receiver
and in place thereof connect up a 25 or
30 Henry choke (30 ma type). Connect
one side of the loud-speaker to the choke
terminal joined to the II.T. battery, and the
other side of the speaker to the choke ter-
minal joined to the plate connection of the
last valve, through a 2MF. condenser. This
will prevent the direct current from flowing
through the speaker coils and allow greater
movement of the diaphragm. Most speakers
are provided with an adjusting screw which
regulates the distance between the diaphragm
and speaker magnets. This much be cor-
rectly adjusted.
Does a kangaroo when running use his
tail as an impetus, or does it touch the
ground ?■ —126.
The tail functions as a balancer, doubtless
imparting impetus to a certain extent, and
does not touch the ground when the animal
is moving swiftly. It is sometimes used
as a third leg when the ’roo is hopping at
a leisurely pace.
How did Hitler, leader of the German
Fascists, come into prominence? —227.
An architect by profession and a native
of Austria, in 1919 he founded a military
body (“Hitler’s volunteers”) to oppose the
German Social Democrats. In 1923 he
organised a “putsch” in Bavaria and tried
to start a march on Berlin, but the “putsch”
failed, and Hitler was sentenced to five years’
imprisonment in a fort. He was soon liber-
ated, and at once reorganised the National
Socialist party, of which Ludendorff was a
representative in the Reichstag. Hitler did
not at that time secure a seat. He then
promoted the “Nazi” cause by editing the
“Vo’.kische Beobachter.” The growth of his
party has been remarkable.
(1) Height of Sydney G.P.O. tower? (2)
Dimensions and height of clock, and what is
the composition of the chime? —198.
(1) 240 ft. (2) The clock is 150 ft. above
the ground, and its four dials are 15ft. Bin.
in diameter. The pendulum swings in 11
seconds, and is compensated. The boh weighs
3ewt. The largest of the five bells weighs
5 tons, and is 6ft. 6in. in diameter. Weights
and diameters of the others respectively are :
30cwt., 4ft. 4in.; 14fewt., 3ft. 4in.;
oil. ; B!cwt., 2ft. 9in.
(1) How many aeroplanes were registered
in Westralia in 1930-31? (2) How many
(a) flights were carried out, (b) flying hours
and (c) miles flown? (3) Number of (a)
passengers and (b) amount of goods car-
ried? (4) Distance of Gcraldton from Perth
by (a) air, (b) sea? —200.
(1) 18. (2) ( a ) 14,782, (b) 6603, (c)
513,000. (3) (a) 10,842, (b) 133,0001 b.
(4) (a) 256, (b) 250.
(1) Principal measurements of the Sirius,
the guardship of N. S. Wales's First.
Fleet? (2) Tonnage? (3) Speed? —23l.
(1) Length overall, about 132 ft.; beam,
32ft.; depth from keel to upper deck, 26ft.;
loaded draft, 17ft.; height of mainmast
above the deck, 122 ft. (2) 612. (3) Her
best speed in a favorable breeze was seven
knots.
What are the essential features of the M.L.
Quackery Prevention Act? —225.
It makes it an offence to publish any
statement intended to promote the sale of
any remedy which is false in any material
particular relating to ingredients, composi-
tion, structure, nature or operation, or to
the effects which have followed or may
follow the use thereof. The penalty is a fine
not exceeding £lOO in the case of a first
conviction, and not exceeding £2OO for every
subsequent conviction.
(1) Qualifications of a company auditor
in Vic.? (2) Is the possession of an account-
ancy diploma sufficient to secure such a posi-
tion? (3) Are any examinations to be
passed? (4) How are local-government
auditors appointed in Vic.? (5) Any exami-
nations to be passed? —26s.
(1) He must hold a license from the
Companies’ Auditors’ Board, issued to those
w’ho pass a prescribed examination. (2) No.
(k> An examination is held each December,
and candidates (who must at least be 21
years of age) are examined in book-keeping,
auditing and company and mercantile law.
(4) They are selected from a list of persons
who hold the license issued by the Yic. Muni-
cipal auditors’ Board. (5) Examinations
are conducted by the board in July (not
necessarily each year), and candidates must
be at least 25 years of age.
How much has been paid in subsidies to
the Queensland sugar industry during the
last three years? —l23.
The sugar industry of Queensland and
N.S.W. is not subs'dised hut protected by
tariff embargo. The value of the protection is
reckoned at £5,000,000 p.a., arrived at on
the basis of the local consumption of 300,000
tons multiplied by the difference between
£26, the wholesale price in Australia, and
the average wholesale price in M.L., £lO
per ton.
How to make a strong semi-liquid paste
that will keep indefinitely, suitable for stick-
ing paper labels on fruit cases? —177.
Boil together powdered alum
and 4-pint water. Mix 1 tablespoon plain
flour to a smooth paste with cold water, a-d
stir it into the liquid while boiling. Stir
well till it boils clear, remove from the fire,
and stir in -|-tcaspoon essence of cloves.
To every pint of paste allow 2oz.
acid; dissolve the acid in a little warm
water, and stir into the paste. Keep in wide
jars, and cover tightly from dust.
How to polish sea shells ? —79.
Make up a very weak solution of sulphuric
acid in water, and brush on to the shells.
Keep the acid off the hands, and hold the
shells with a cloth or pincers while brush-
ing. Allow to stand a few minutes, then
rinse in clean water. When dry, rub with
olive oil and polish with a silk duster.
Brief Answers.
T. J.: (1) You must not remove property
in any way attached to the land, nor should you
trespass upon it by remaining in residence. All
you are entitled to remove is personal chattels. (2)
Should the sale fall through and insufficient money be
realised to cover the advance made by the Savings
Bank, you may be liable under the personal covenant,
if any, in the mortgage to meet the deficiency, as
the bank is expressly excluded from the provisions
of the Moratorium Act J. 8.: It is a black-
shouldered kite, regarded with favor in farming
districts on account of the number of mice it
destroys... .P.F.M.: (1) Unless otherwise agreed,
any article pawned may be redeemed within three
months. After that the article becomes forfeited
and may be sold. (2) No analogy. Money advanced
on the security of land is by way of mortgage, the
usual period being three years. The transaction is
governed by the terms of the mortgage deed. The
moratorium protects mortgagor till April, 1933. Mort-
gagee’s rights extend to land and fixtures, not to
personal chattels D.P.: “Writing for the
Screen,’’ by Arrar Jackson (55.), and “How to Write
a Film Story,” by Gertrude M. Allen (25.)....
W.H.A.: "W rite Agriculture Dept., Sydney, for pam-
phlet “Bacon-curing on the Farm” A.C.T.:
Write Chief Inspector of Fisheries and Game, 143
Kiag-street, Melbourne H. J.W.: Patch them with
bicycle tyre patches and solution, or take them to
the nearest garage and get a quotation for vulcan-
ising if they are worth it G. 0.: (1) No. (2)
Trade secret, not obtainable. (3) Sydney refrigerat-
ing engineers cannot quote for material, and the
people who were handling this make in the city
have gone out of business A.E.A.: (1) Acceptance
by B of any part of the debt does not prejudice his
right to sue for the remainder; neither does refusal
affect his right. (2) Since a creek divides
them there is not, apparently, a common
boundary. In any case, it does not appear
that A could compel Bto wire-net a wholly distinct
fence... .G.L.D.: Get. in touch with the Chief
Librarian, Mitchell Library, Sydney E.P.H.: (1)
There are several. Any bookseller will quote titles
and prices. (2) His son John published a “Life”
in 1846 and “.Recollections and Experiences” in 1849.
There are also biographies by W. Fagan (1847),
M. F. Cusack (1872), J. O’Rourke and O’Keefe
(1875), and J. A. Hamilton (1888). (3) Will reply
later K.P.: (1) John Longstaff. (2) He was
the fifth winner in 1900. (3) No, born in Edin-
burgh. (4) “Welcome News”.... A.D.G.: (1) The
so-called Bayeux tapestry has been proved to be
not tapestry but needlework; it was not worked
by Queen Matilda and not made in Normandy.
Probably it was made in London. (2) The material
is coarse and common and not such as would be
used by the Queen. There is no reference to the
work, which is of size and importance, in any
contemporary literature. It went to Bayeux
when the Queen’s favorite church was at Caen.
.. . .J.C.D.: Tyre-mending solution will do the work.
If the boots are worth it, patches can probably be
vulcanised... .C.J.C.: Ordinary negatives are printed
on to special lantern-slide plates, about 3s. per
doz. When these are fixed, and tinted, if required,
they are faced with cover glasses, Is. per doz., and
bound together with lantern strips, Is. 3d. per box.
See “Lantern Slides,” by B. T. J. Glover, Is. 6d..
All obtainable Harringtons, Ltd., 386 George-street,
Sydney... .K.8.J.: If a device is patented it cannot
be manufactured without permission from the
patentee, either fcSr sale or for one’s own use....
P.V.C.: (1) State Income Tax, nil; Federal Income
Tax on £2O, £2 ss. 4d.; on £5O, £5 14s. 7d.
Unemployment Relief Tax on £2O, £1; on £5O.
£2 10s. (2) No. (3) Not at all F.W.H.D.:
Write J. C. Williamson and Co., corner Pitt and
Market streets, Sydney R.F.M.: “Horse Training
Out-door and High School,” by E. Beudant, 17s. 6d. ;
“Horse Breeding Yesterday and To-day,” by Capt
Alec S. Campbell, 17s. 6d. ; “The Racehorse in
Training,” by W. and A. J. Day, 265.; “How to
Train a Racehorse,” by William Muggridge, 255. ;
“The Thoroughbred Racehorse,” by J. E. Platt, 9s.
... .A.S.: (1) The contract was let to Dorman.
Long and Co.; price, £4,217,721 11s. lOd. (2)
The contractors made their own arrangements as to
finance and insurance. (3) The bridge was tested
to compare the behavior of the completed structure
under load with the mathematical computations of
the designers H.P.: Yes F.C.W.8.: If the case
is a simple undefended one, probably you could
procure a solicitor’s services for the sum named, but
all depends upon the legal work involved....
Dunedin: Infantile paralysis is caused by a definite
germ. It has no connection whatsoever with venereal
disease. No previous infection in a parent’s life
could have the slightest effect on an infant’s liability
to infantile paralysis F.S.: Three days’ rest with
the feet raised should improve the condition....
G.C.: Adelaide Repertory Theatre (Inc.), hon. sec.,
Muriel Craigie, 100 William-street, Norwood (S.A.) ;
W.E.A. (South Aus.) Little Theatre, hon. sec.,
George Meßitchie, Adelaide University, Adelaide....
R.C.P.: Write Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney, for
pamphlets, “Pig Raising” and “Bacon Curing on
the Farm”. . . .T.G.: The preparation is not obtain-
able in Sydney K.W.H.: (1) Alan Cobham in
1926. (2) Once... .W.D.: (1) Julian Huxley, 31
Hillway, Highgate, London, N. 6. (2) Dr. Serge
Voronoff, Chateau Grimaldi, Menton, A.M., France.
H.C.M.K.: Sir James Barrie was born May 9,
1860. . . .M.R.: Catanach’s, 308 Little Collins-street;
Win. Drummond and Co., 344 Collins-street; T.
Gaunt and Co., 337 Bourke-street; S. Kozminsky
and Co., 272 Collins-street —all Melbourne... .G.J.G.:
Write Taxpayers’ Assoc, of Vic., 360 dollins-street,
Melbourne (Vic.) ... .C.S.: The habit cannot be cured
by drugs. You can overcome it only by exercising
your wi11... .H.K.: She became partly blind in
1928. Born near Dublin in 1861, • her first book,
“Louise de La Valliere,” was published in 1885.
Among her most popular poetical works are: “Cuckoo
Songs,” “The Land of Mists and Mountains,” “Sham-
rocks” and “The Wind in the Tree.” In fiction her
best known works are: “Luck of the Fairfaxes,”
“A Daughter of the Fields,” “A Girl of Galway”
and “The Handsome Brandons”... .J.S.C.: (1) Take
rifle apart, pack securely and send parcel post.
Parcel must not exceed 42 inches in length and
111 b. in weight. (2) Ammunition offers a good
deal of difficulty. Approximate freight to Singapore,
30s. case of 1000. Numerous certificates, Customs clear-
ances and permits are necessary. (3) No informa-
tion available in Sydney as to freights and duties.
(4) .303 ammunition can be purchased in Singapore.
. ...D.D.: Eastman direct positive paper, procurable
Kodaks, 379 George-street, Sydney. Full directions,
including chemical formula, are enclosed. For the
sensitising of fabric, see Wall’s “Dictionary of
Photography”... .C.F.E.: (1) and (2) See 'Wall’s
“Dictionary of Photography.” (3) L. P. Clerc’s
“Photography—Theory and Practice” F.H.: Write
Technological Museum, Harris-street, Sydney....
C.R.: W rite N.S.W. Agriculture Dept, for pamphlet
on the subject J.C.D.: Official War Historian,
Victoria Barracks, Paddington, Sydney, or the
Director, Australian War Museum, Chalmers-street.
Sydney, may be able to advise S.N.W.: The book
has no value... .1.D.F.: Yes... .E.R.1.: ,T. L.
Michael was born in England in 1524. lie came to
Australia in 1853, practised as a solicitor in N.S.W.,
and published two volumes, “Songs Without Music”
(1857) and “John Cumberland” (I 860). The latter
is not rare and is worth about 10s. 6d..


The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81E22.
OLD GOLD AND BROKEN JEWELLERY PURCHASED
At highest ruling rates.
Special Services available for country clients.
BUYERS AND SEEDERS OP
New Zealand Notes, English Notes, English Silver, and all Foreign Currency.
ROYAL GOLD &. CURRENCY EXCHANGE CO.
40 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY. ’Phone 85417.
THE EXAMINER,
LAUNCESTON.
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
NOW
IN ITS
91st YEAR.
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information., copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
Evening Express” obtainable from
“Saturday
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
1 "W s 1
PEPPERMINT
I CUREI
For Goughs, Colds, 111
and Influenza.
I The Unrivalled Remedy |||j|
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
“The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Sir Duninald’s victorious career suffered a
check in the Flying Handicap at Randwick
on Saturday. It looked as if the handicapper
had taken a risk with him when he raised
the beautiful little chestnut only 91b. for ltiS
success in the June Stakes on the first day
of the meeting, a success preceded by two
others on consecutive Saturdays—Dermid,
second in the June Stakes, was up 51b. —
but this time the adjuster of weights was
justified. Sir Duninald’s chance was, how-
ever, spoilt at the start, and he was nearly
last into the straight. Golden Gate shaped
the best of the favorites —she, Sir Duninald
and Eulclare were all at fours—but she was
downed by Orby Anthus, ridden by Knox,
Brazenface (12 to 1) being a fair third.
McShortodds was glad to see Orby Anthus’s
colors show up, for he offered 12 to 1, with
the 10 p.e. tax to be excluded. The tote,
with tax deducted, paid £9 Os. 6d. and £2 Is.
for 10s., together with £3 Os. 6d. on Brazen-
face.
The A.J.C., always—and very properly—
considerate of jockeys, put on a Jumpers’
Flat race, chiefly for the benefit of horse-
men who feel the effects of the local slump
in hurdle-racing and steeple-chasing. Some
of these lads are better riders than boys who
get good mounts in flat races week after week,
but they are given few opportunities. In a
most exciting finish, Lady Doris (5 to 1),
ridden by Pearce, prevailed. She had won
the Club Hurdles on the first day, and as
3eRT / Ive Backed another loser.
'
<Sep?t ; *HOV( much this .time ?"
Bert; * Every beam lb got".
• ft /
GiERT , OH ( SOOO - l WAS A.PRAIO Vouo
Been hewjily,''
the Second Hurdles fell to Draconic (2 to 1),
all three events for jumpers at the meet-
ing were captured by horses owned by E. J.
Watt and trained by Pat Nailon.
The unbeaten Diamond de Rouge was
voted a good thing for the Second Nursery
Handicap, especially as Roy Reed had drawn
No. 5 position, and the Maoriland-bred chest-
nut went out at 6 to 4 in a field of 16. As
in the two-year-old race at Randwick on
May 14, Diamond de Rouge and the second
favorite, Vista, cleared out from the bunch;
but this time they stopped, and were passed
by several horses. Indra (10 to 1) was first
home from Dame Moab (20 to 1) and
Delmond (12 to 1), but judge’s placingswere
altered as the resuit of a protest, first prize
going to the owner of Dame Moab and
second to Indra. Dame Moab is trained by
W. P. Bill for A. M. Cooley; she is by
Moabite—Lady Magpie. Tote divs. for 10s.
were again excellent —£16 Is. 6d. and £3
Is. 6d., Lady Moab; £1 11s. 6d., Indra, and
the same Delmond.
Rarely is a good field seen in the Winter
Stakes. Saturday’s entrants were about the
worst on record. Roley was adjudged the
best of them by the handicapper; he had
Bst. 101 b., but could not go the distance,
13 furlongs. Two failures in Trial Handi-
cap company, Khartoum (6 to 1) and Gipps-
land (12 to 1). figured in the finish; Khar-
toum, staying a bit better than the other —he
is bred to stay, being a Spearhead—just cut
the outsider out of it; Wallace Mimi, the
favorite, was third. Old Tangible showed a
bold front for a time, but could not come on.
The first division of the Exeter Handicap
saw six or seven of the 14 starters backed—
an unusual proportion these times. The
close finish evidenced the worth of Sir Duni-
nald; Havaspot (8 to 1) and Aorangi (8
to 1, second and third to the chestnut at
Rosehill, but several lengths back, were first
and second here; New King (6 to 1), second
to Sir Duninald at Warwick Farm, was third.
Roy Reed got a nice run out of Havaspot
at the right moment.
Burwood, taken out of the Flying Handi-
cap, was a 6-to-4 favorite for the second
division of the Exeter. He failed; a big
fellow, he is awkward in a field. Tantrum
(20 to 1) closed a very unpleasant day for
backers, winning from Ethics and Intrepid,
the well-backed Port Said being just beaten
for a place.
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Brazenface; next,
Sweet Maggie.
Ivogarah Stakes : Ramrod ; next, Nord.
Moorefield Handicap: New King or Port
Said; next, Herolage or Intrepid.
Rockdale Mile: New King or Herolage;
next, Senator.
Melbourne racing last week only served
to complicate the Grand National situation.
Because of his victory over the battens at
Flemington on Monday, Nauru advanced to
the position of National Hurdle favorite,
whereas he had been previously fancied for
the cross-country event. It is on the cards
that Claude Grice’s horse will land the
double; for the steeplechase he claims nearly
as many admirers as Archeson, winner of the
V.R.C. H'opetoun Steeple on June 4. Ithuriel
performed rather ingloriously in the York
Hurdle (June 4) and St. Magnus could not
get nearer than third in the Marlborough
Hurdle (June 6) ; yet each of these horses
scored at Moonee Valley on Saturday, St.
Magnus taking the Windarra Hurdle and
Ithuriel the Marne Jumpers’ Flat. To add
to the bewilderment of turf followers,
Bhopal, who ran such a good race against
Redditcli in the V.R.C. York Hurdle, was
unplaced in the Windarra Hurdle, tor which
she started favorite.
Indifferent jumping put Bhopal out of
court. She did not draw to the hurdles at
all well, but nevertheless w r as in command
half a mile from home. When challenged
by Lanneret and Laniroi, the Bardolph mare
faded out; evidently the Moonee Valley turns
did not suit her so well as the long gallop-
ing stretches at Flemington. On the other
hand, St, Magnus revealed marked improve-
ment in his fourth essay over hurdles. The
Graculus gelding is a coming champion in
the jumping department, and it was small
wonder that, at the close of the afternoon,
he was installed second favorite for the
National Hurdle. Consequent on his Adel-
aide victory, there was increased demand for
Alwynian, and the fact of Lady Doris hav-
ing emphasised her A.J.C. Hurdle success by
landing the Jumpers’ Flat at Randwick was
not overlooked by punters.
Manifestly Lady Doris is a speedy cus-
tomer. but if the daughter of Doric could
have been transferred to Moonee Valley her
chance of success in the Marne Jumpers’
Flat would have been rather remote ; Ithuriel,
brother to The Dimmer, romped home. No
horse could have borne a better-trained
appearance. S. P. Casey, the new owner-
trainer, is convinced that Ithuriel merely
needs to bo driven at the hurdles to take
them sufficiently well to capture the
“National.” There is not a mark to be found
or. the limbs of Ithuriel, showing that he has
jumped safely in his recent outings.
Gus Powell may regret having relieved
Tezpur of his G. N. engagements. The
Ethionian gelding annexed the Travancore
Steeplechase at Moonee Valley in highly
creditable style. Stewards had to deal with
a protest against Tezpur, lodged bv Howson,
rider of the favorite, West Wing, who
finished second. West Wing palpably suf-
fered some mishap after taking the second-
last fence. Howson alleged that Thompson,
on Tezpur, caused the trouble, and teit
aggrieved when the objection was dismissed.
Harry Gabell, who trains Sandhurst, the
1929 Grand National Steeplechase hero, ex-
perienced a welcome change of luck when
Jaberoo annexed the Chandos Handicap.
Punters tumbled over each other to bacK
Aphract, but this son of Caravel was un-
sighted on the journey. Pacific 1 light. a
three-year-old by Heroic that C. B. Kellow
leased to the father of Theo Lewis, the
lightweight jockey, threatened to win all tne
way; but Jaberoo (Neville Percival) wore
him down in the straight. Lancegay and
James Wilson’s stallion Wapilly disputed
favoritism for the Greenvale Welter. Neither
was in the finish. Sweet Corn scoring by a
narrow margin from Yaropian. The Deep
Creek Handicap was won all the way by
Mural Crown, who belongs to A. T. Cres-
wick, and is trained at Flemington by Brad-
field.
Selections for Caulfield on Saturday:—
Richmond Handicap: King Mart or Idle
Banter.
Rosny Plate: Illustrious or Auto 1 ay.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Very little real wrestling was seen when
Walter Browning (14.2*) met Leon Labriola
(14.3) at Leichhardt last Saturday night,
but the pair gave a great display of biting,
kicking and punching. Labriola scored first,
w r ith a flyiug-headlock and then a body-press,
in the fourth, and afterwards worked so well
that this looked like being the only fall of
the night. Browning replied with a Boston
crab in round six—the last —and the match
was declared a draw.
Footbrawl
The 54th inter-State match between Vic-
toria and S. Australia brought 27,000 spec-
tators to the newly-graded Melb. C. Ground,
and as soon as the players got used to the
heavy going a bright game resulted. Victoria
began well; by cleaner marking and long,
driving kicks it had 19 points to 3 at the
first change. Then the Croweaters, con-
centrating on short passing kicks, with
good direction, reached half-time with a 17-
point lead. After that the locals speeded-up
and had most of the play, but their forward
shooting was so atrocious that they were
still 10 points behind at the last spell. The
final quarter saw a ding-dong struggle, with
both sides tiring. South Australia was play-
ing more cleverly and systematically, but
lacked the bit of devil needed to push the
attack home. When the bell rang Vic. boasted
12 goals 20 behinds (92) to S.A.’s 12 goals
12 behinds (84). The visitors were best
served by their backs, Mott, Parsons and
Williamson, and Bertram and Farmer were
good forwards. Best of the Dark Blues were
Bunton, Davey, Gill and Pratt.
* * * *
The Australian Rules match between
N.S.W. and a strong Victorian side on Syd-
ney Cricket Ground proved something of a
walk-over for the visitors once they got into
their stride, final scores reading, Victoria 91
(13 goals, 13 behinds), N.S.W. 66 (9 goals,
12 behinds). Attendance was over 8000, and
the game was started by Prime Minister
Lyons bouncing the ball. Victoria’s
chief scorer was Moriarty, of Fitzroy, who
landed 6 goals, but Hillas and Bence, at
fullback and forward, were the stars of
the visitors. Henneberry and Lloyd worked
well for the losers against the formidable
opposition, Ellman, who scored 5 goals, being
the most effective of the home forwards.
* * * *
Playing Queensland in Brisbane, the Eng-
lish Rugby League tourists won a bitter
match by 15-10 (3 tries and 3 goals to 2
tries and 2 goals). The attendance, 13,000,
was disappointing, but the fine showing put
up by the Bananalanders. should swell tho
gates for the match against Australia on
Saturday. Playing with 12 men in the
second half, the Englishmen took oft the
gloves and went berserk. Their opponents
retaliated, with the result that the game will
go down in history as one of the roughest
and dirtiest yet seen in big League football
in Queensland or any other State. Neither the
referee nor touch-judges attempted to inter-
fere. Two Englishmen, Horton and 1 eet-
ham, took the count at once on one occa-
sion, and when the teams came off the held
both sides showed ample evidence of assault
and battery. At half-time scores were 8-5
in the visitors’ favor, but another try and
2 goals by Hodgson followed, making Ins
score 4 for the match. Hudson and Risman
were the best of the British backs, while
Laws played a great game for the home side.
The Australian Rugby League side_ for
the second Test against England at Bris-
bane on Saturday includes only one man
who did not figure in the first team, O'Con-
nor going into the pack vice the injured
Little. Weissel comes, up to five-eighth, and
Norman replaces the country player ar
cen tre-threequarter.
Saturday’s Rugby League games in Syd-
ney saw the premiers, South Sydney, get a
shock from University, which only went
down by 16-14 at Pratten Park. North Syd-
ney, aided by the ex-Rugby Union star
Leckie, who scored 2 tries and 4 goals,
easily beat Balmain 26-8. Other results
were: Eastern Suburbs 23, Western 13:
Newtown 23, St. George 15. Half-back Ellis
landed 7 goals out of 8 shots for Newtown.
The Rugby Union battles for the Shute
Shield in Sydney saw Manly retain the first-
grade lead by a point from Western Suburbs,
final scores reading 12-11. Cecil Barnes, who
has made such a reputation as a goal-kicker
for Wests, missed a sitter in the last
few seconds or the result would have
been reversed. The game was played at
Concord. At Coogee. Eastern Suburbs beat
Randwick 26-12, while St, George surprised
at Hurstville by leading Northern Suburbs
26-22. The in-and-out University team
downed Drummoyne on the latter’s oval
14-13.
* * *
The N.S.W. Unions side to meet the
All Blacks in the opening match of the tour
at Sydney Cricket Ground on .Tunc 25 con-
tains few surprises. One is the inclusion
of the Western Suburbs colt, T. Pauling, at
centre-threequarter. A big and powerful
player, Pauling, who is the son of an old
All Black and N.S.W. rep. in the late 1.
Pauling, had only played three first-grade
matches up to his selection. Otherwise the
side is much what was expected. Hodgson.
the big Manly forward, having been given the
lock position, will make another appearance
for the State, which he has not represented
since 1930.
(Continued on page 30.)
For the ninth successive time an Amen-
can has carried off the British open golf
championship. This is Gene Sarazen, who.
leading throughout the tourney, ended
with an aggregate of 283 for the four rounds,
an average of less than fours per hole. Mac-
donald Smith, an American-Scot, was second
and Havers, an English player who won
the title in 1923. third. The best amateur,
W. L. Hope, had an aggregate of 299.
* " . i .
The foursomes golf championship of
N.S.W. went to H. W. Hattersley and V .
M. Garland, of N.S.W., after a draw with
another Manly pair in Eric Apperley and
W. O. Sturroek, each pair scoring 150. In
the play-off the winners finished their 18-
holes trip with a card of 79 to 86 by their
opponents.


m
MM
m.
msmt
Ml
1
iliiitl
a
■WXv;
> '!
i
Hi
,3iS5
mm
:!>>• ■;
illii
SBB&
*
KSwSSK
*«*£
■Sr
“Well, Joan, it looks as though we’re going
to get our Vauxhall!”
“Harry, it’s great! We’ve looked at them for
years . . . and wished. Remember that old
‘3O-98’ of John’s? He’s driving it to-day!”
“Yes, and this modern Vauxhall has all the
grit of that famous bus—and added comfort
. . . added smoothness!”
“I like the idea of this Synchro—what do
you call it?”
“Silent - Second Synchro - Mesh Trans-
mission!”
“Yes. Why your famous gear changing
d
act will be a thing of the past now! I’ll be
able to change just as easily as you! ’
“We’ll both get a thrill out of this 1932
Vauxhall. . . . And you know, Joan, I feel
really patriotic, because this 1932 Vauxhall
is a truly English car —designed and built
in England for Australia . .
This 1932 Vauxhall is priced from £335!
Twenty-six h.p. R.A.C. Rating. Bodies by
Holden. See them on display at the
Showrooms of your Authorised Local
Vauxhall Dealer.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN'S LTD - DEALERS IN ALL MftlN CENTRES
FARM ACCOUNTS
The articles published on The Bulletin’s Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about
book-keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are
kept. Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible
language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis
and keep it there. In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every
branch of the business and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
The Bulletin, at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be dealt
with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means
of everybody. It will be sent from any Bulletin Office for sixpence, to
which must be added 2d. for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just
as valuable to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy
idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE


A ROLLS RAZOR
FOR
MANY YEARS OF SMOOTH
SHAVING
50/-
The Rolls Safety Razor has one hollow-
ground blade, a honing device on one
Tide and stropping on the other. Thus
it enables you to keep the blade always
keen and ready for use.
Post Free for Cash with Order.
W. Jno. Baker Ltd.,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
(NEXT HUNTER STREET ENTRANCE TO
WYNYARD STATION).
Footbrawl
“Ilotham”: A good deal of dissatisfaction
is being expressed by followers of Australian
Rules football over the modern tendency to
tinker with the rules. When the original
laws of the game were promulgated in loti
there were only 13 rules and live definitions.
It was natural that these should be extended,
but to-day they have increased to 79 rules
and 16 detinitions, with the result that even
the umpires are hard put to keep up with
them. One finds the same thing in the .Rugby
Union and League worlds. A couple ot
notable instances can be found in the con-
fusion existing at present in the Rugby Union
over the adoption of the International
Board’s rules by all Union-playing coun-
tries, and the tangle recently encoun-
tered in Sydney over the interpretation of
the “play the ball” rule in the matches be-
tween the North of England League team
and their Australian opponents.
* * *
“Swing th’ Boot”: An exceeding bitter
cry went up from the N.S.W. Itugby League
last week over the decision of the Sydney
police to close the gates of the Cricket
Cround when that arena was crammed with
a record mob of optimists paying to “sec'
the first Test match against England. The
League had just turned from counting the
takings, which amounted to £6508 19s. 9d.
The absence of the other tray-bit seems to
have weighed on the League’s soul, because
it recorded its opinion that the arbitrary
action of the John Hops was unwarranted.
In cold fact, the League is lucky not to have
got stacks of summonses for the return of
money paid for nothing. Hundreds of con-
fiding people weighed out 4s. per head before
the gates were closed, found the proposition
hopeless and came out again. Any decent
theatrical management will return cash to
those who have been unable to find a seat.
“Old Q.” : Some Rugby League enthusiast
has been writing to the Sydney press de-
scribing tlic English footballers as iron
men” because they have been called upon
to play four matches .in 10 days<j-counting
Sundays in—after their arrival in N.S.W.
But in the old days of intercolonial Rugby
Union, four matches from Saturday to Satur-
day were the invariable rule. One always
included a trip to some outlying football
centre, Bathurst, Newcastle, Orange, etc. The
programme was usually the first intercolonial
match on Saturday, after arriving in Sydney,
say, on Thursday night. Tuesday saw a
game against 18 Juniors, perhaps, and there
was no age or weight limit on “Juniors’
then. The tourists were then whisked off
for a match in the country on the Thurs-
day and played the second big game on
Saturday. The touring teams rarely com-
prised more than 18 men, and they earned
their oats. N.S.W., of course, followed the
same routine when in Queensland. Both
sides often played an extra match on the
journey at Toowoomba or Armidale.
\j: i'.i * ❖
“Tenakoe”: Maoriland’s side to visit Aus-
tralia is a likely lot on paper, and the
selectors have announced that pace and
cleverness have been preferred to brawn. AH
the same the list of forwards suggests that
the tonnage is there, while the back division
is the best the Shivery Isles have on tap.
Only four of the side have been in Australia
before, Lilburne, Palmer, Cottrell and Steere.
Lilburne is a five-eighth who toured South
Africa with the All Blacks, and has played
for Canterbury and Wellington. Cottrell will
be remembered as an outstanding forward of
the 1929 All Blacks in Australia, and Palmer
and Steere were also members of that same
vanguard. Newcomers worth noting are
G. R. Hart, of Canterbury, a flying winger
who ran Jim Carlton to a short head when
the latter last, visited M.L.; Corner, a diminu-
tive halfback who rivals the famous “Olla”
Humphreys in the matter of weight (9.7),
but has shown with distinction against
Britain and the last Australian team in M.L.,
and Buliock-Douglas. an outstanding winger
from Wanganui. Lilburne will skipper the
team, with Kilby, a scrum half, as second
in command.
❖ ❖ * ❖
“Amateur Pro.” : The complaisant attitude
of the N.S.W. Rugby Union towards players
who have deserted to the professional code and
seek reinstatement is giving genuine sup-
porters of the world-wide amateur game
grounds for apprehension, and bitter pro-
tests were voiced by an influential section
at the last monthly meeting of the Union
in Sydney. It has become quite a common-
place for some swollen-headed youth who con-
siders he is a better judge of his football
ability than the selectors to at once revert
to the rival body. That done, these persons
should be allowed to remain in their new
spiritual home permanently. Such a per-
verted sense of sportsmanship is better out
of the Union than in it. There are other
glaring instances of flabbiness. One indi-
vidual readmitted bases his plea on the
ground that though he had played League
football he had never taken a reward in cash
or kind for doing so. The mere fact that he
played in a game with sides numbering less
than 15 players constitutes him a profes-
sional. The Union is recommended to look
up its own rules as to professionalism and
enforce them, or it is going to lose a lot of
friend?.
Racquet and Bawl
“Bournemouth”: The champions are
gathering at Wimbledon for the series run-
ning from June 20 to July 2. They include
Helen Wills and the cream of the American
men. Lacoste isn’t going, but Borotra and
Cocliet will be among those present. Ho will
Crawford and H'opman of Australia. It is to
be hoped that they will do something to
justify their nev—>ppo" v - ” i atious.
'** * *
“Cut Shot”: Helen Wills —or Wills-
Moody. as she likes to call herself since sin-
acquired a husband —went through the femi-
nine opposition in the French singles cham-
pionship with ease. Her opponent in the
final was Mine. Mathieu, who had tossed
out English Betty Nuthall in the semi-final,
but the Frenchwoman gave her little trouble,
the American winning in two straight sets.
There doesn’t seem to be anyone iikely to
bother her at Wimbledon, though a fight:
between her and our own Mrs. Crawford
will be welcome if the fates bring it about.
“Top Spin” : Cochet announces that busi-
ness will take him on a world tour shortly
and Australia wall be among the countries
visited. The French champion proposes to
mix tennis with things more material.
Cochet, who won the singles at the recent
French championships from the Italian
Stefani, will be accompanied by a brother-
in-law, one Merlin, who though not in the
French ranking list is rated as a good player.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: The 1000-mile motor race won
at Brooklands by Australian Joan Richmond
and her English team-mate, Mrs. Wisdom,
was a handicap event which has been sub-
stituted for the original “double 12 hours’ ”
race, formerly one of the features of the
Brooklands season. There were eight classes,
made up of cars, supercharged and not super-
charged, with cylinder capacities varying from
750 c.c. to 5000 and over. The winners were
driving a Riley 9 and demonstrated, as many
other makes of small cars did during the
race, the astonishing speed capacity of the
little engines. The full course as run was
1046.4 miles and the winners kicked up an
average of 84.41 m.p.h. The big Talbot
which took second place averaged 95.43 m.p.h.
Mrs. Wisdom is a noted English speed driver.
The Victorian girl was a newcomer to the
track game, though a skilled driver otherwise.
* * *
“Colonel Damurize”: The women motor-
drivers, who are becoming one of the coun-
try’s chief transport problems—one of them
nearly cut me down as I was crossing Bridge-
street the other morning—are quite up in the
air because a Victorian and English pair of
females have won an important speed race
in England. It is claimed that this is the
first time on record that ■women have ever
won a contest of the kind. That may be,
but their triumph, like every other credited
to the sex, is a Dead-Sea apple and a dubious
egg, so to speak.' The fast girls under dis-
cussion could not do better than 841 miles
SOME OF ENGLAND’S RUGBY LEAGUE FOOTBALLERS.
(1) W. Dingsdale; (2) I. Davies; (3) B. Hudson; (4) W. A. Williams; (5) Jim
Sullivan leapt.); (6) W. Horton; (7) S. Brogden; (8) W. Butters.
per hour for 1000 miles. The record stands
to the credit of mere males, Kaye Don,
Eyston and Co., who averaged 116.23 m.p.li.
some time ago at Montlhery. I got pretty
near that myself when the Germans broke
through our lot at St. Quentin in 191 S.
* « * *
“Kick Starter” : There was something of
a sensation in English dirt-track motor-cycle
racing circles the other day when the Ameri-
can champion, Ray Tauser, was invited by
the authorities, in the language of his coun-
trymen, “to take a walk.” Thanks to a joke
which the Yankees themselves were the first
to start people like Tauser can only enter
England on permit. The American, who is a
notable rider, lias been three years in Britain,
so he lias had a good spm. He had signed
up to ride for the Wimbledon club during
the coming season.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hoylake”: An interesting figure in the
British open golf championship was the
Japanese player. Myamoto. He finished the
first round in 14th place with a card of
7!) as against a 70 by Yankee Gene Sarazen,
who led the qualifiers. The lad from
Nippon might have done better but for a
peculiarity of his game. He always insists
in playing straight for the hole, no matter
how bad the lie. though another player in
his fix would probably sacrifice a stroke to
get a safer position. It is a quixotic atti-
tude which lias no doubt amused the Strong
American contingent in the competition.
They, like all their countrymen in every
game and sport, are always out to win, and
leave nothing to chance.
*
“Hotham”: Once upon a time any Mel-
bournian giving it out that he was about
to pay a visit tit Yarra Bend was regarded
with suspicion, that being the old-time desig-
nation of a State hospital. Nowadays it is
understood that the speaker is going out to
play golf on the excellent public course at
the National Park, nine holes of which have
recently been laid out. The yardage of
first nine is 3188, and when the course is
completed, as it should be m a few months,
it will be one of the longest m. Victoria.
The course is most ingeniously designed ana
thoroughly bunkered and trapped. Gener-
ally it is far above the standard ot otlni
public links, and is excelled by very tew
of the private clubs. On the principle that
the stiller the course the better the standard
of golf produced by its habitues that is ail
to the good. ... #
“Carnoustie”: Enid Wilson, winner of the
British women’s golf championship for the
second year in succession, made hacks ot
the opposition, including a much-fancied
American contingent. In the final, whicn
she won from the Scottish champion Miss
Montgomery, by 7 up and 6 to play, she did
the first nine holes in the afternoon round
in 35, three under bogey for the course. A
strong, stocky player, the champion is an
ardent adherent of the Bobby Jones tenet,
“produce the figures and ignore your oppo-
nent.” She is to visit America for the cham-
pionship there, and is keen, on netting the
double —if she does she will be the first
to do so.
❖ * * *
“Hamilton”: The fear that the Ivirk-
Windeyer Cup contest would be confined to
N.S.W. and the holders, Maoriland, has
been allayed by a last-minute entry of a
Queensland quartette. These are 11. 11.
Gumming, T. Munro, .1. Trade and G. VV hat-
more. All are in the useful rather than the
champion class, but they are making the
trip in a sporting spirit. Victoria’s refusal
to send over a team has been vigorously
criticised in Sydney, the excuse that no
players were available having been contra-
dicted by several leading Victorian golfers
who were ■willing to make the trip. The
Cabbage Gardeners have always taken a hos-
tile attitude towards this inter-Dominion
competition, and apparently for no better
reason than that the donors of the cup and
founders of the competition did not think it
necessary to first consult the Victorian golf-
ing heads.
i'fi i'fi ❖ ❖
“Cash Amateur”: The American golf pro-
fessionals clean up annual cheques that make
the mouths of their confreres in other lands
water. To the top-noteher in Yankeeland the
whole year is open as a money-making pro-
position. During the southern season, which
includes the big tourneys in Florida, Agua
Caliente and California, the heads were esti-
mated to have cut up some £16.000 among
them. Gene Sarazen tops the list with a
bag of some £5OOO, including the £2OOO first
prize at Miami.
Miscellaneous
“Pawang”: The epidemic in Shanghai
which has caused so many deaths amongst
greyhounds imported from Australia that
the courses have had to be closed is pro-
bably a disease common to the Chinese wonk,
which in course of time has become immu-
nised. On the other hand, the imported
beasts may have brought the microbe with
them, infected the local curs a.nd then re-
ceived it back again in a more virulent form
This is what happened in the case of scarlet
fever, which was brought in its mild form
to China by European children. After the
germ had passed through Chinese bodies it
was so transformed that scarlet fever became
one of the most dangerous diseases tor a
white child to catch.
-j. Sjc :f *
“Backwoodsman”: I note that someone nas
written to the Sydney papers suggesting that
the removal of the railway enclosure in
Hyde Park will leave enough ground for
laying down half a dozen public bowling
greens, and he quotes the example of Glas-
gow and other British cities where these
greens, with bowls and shoes, are available
to the public at the trifling cost of 2d. a game.
I am heartily in favor of the scheme, for
the particular locality is excellently adapted
to the practice of bowls, there being at least
six public houses within a half-minute’s walk
of the proposed greens. The only drawback
is the heavy traffic in Elizabeth and Liverpool
streets, but this could be avoided by an
overhead viaduct or even a tunnel under
the roadways.
* sjs * *
“Retired Gun” : I see that one of the boys
has proved again the truth of the old adage
that a goat is born every tick of the clock.
He was a weary wayfarer up Hornsby
(N.S.W.) way and got into an argument
with a horseman at one of the local pubs. He
inspected the other's nag and didn't think
much of it. Finally, he offered to beat the
prad with owner up in a hundred yards
sprint and wagered his dog against the steed.
Of course, he won pulling up, and the last
seen of him he was riding out of town with
the dog following. A pal of mine used to
do the western Queensland shows working
this stunt. He made a good thing of it until
.he struck a cove at Blackall who was in
much the same line as himself. He owned a
little pony that had been specially trained
to the game and was quicker off the mark
than a rabbit. The two went into partner-
ship after that—or rather I should say the
three, for the pony knew as much as cither
of them.
* * * *
“Blade Sight” : The annual shoot for the
King’s medal, which carries with it the rifle-
shooting championship of the Australian
Military Forces, was won last week in Syd-
ney by Lieutenant Potter, a South Austra-
lian Light Horseman, with 167 out of a 206
possible. Conditions in this event are much
more arduous than in the pot-hunting civilian
rifle shoots. They call for 10 shots at 600.
10 shots fire and movement at ranges from
600 to 100 yards. 10 shots rapid fire at 300
yards .and 10 shots snap-shooting, the target
being exposed for three seconds only.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: The Australian Olympic
team departed with the usual ceremonial
last week, and nothing remains but to wait
for results. The team has one advantage in
that it is in the hands of a couple of first-
class professional trainers, a privilege its
predecessors have not enjoyed. Also the
feminine competitors will be a good adver-
tisement for this country, even if they don’t
win any events, for none of them are hard
to look at. The best bets of the departing
team seem to be the Tasmanian distance
runner. Barwick, and perhaps Charlton in
the 1500 metres swimming. Beyond these
there seems little hope, save, of course.
Pearce in the sculling event.
The “Silver Lining.”
There are many indications that difficult
days are passing, and that more prosperous
times are ahead. In the meantime we are
all glad to seize every opportunity calculated
to lessen the burden of expense.
Here is one golden opportunity! .
At Murdoch’s great Red Spot Sale, im-
mense stocks have been heavily cut in price
to meet the need of speedy clearance. Every
Department —Men’s and . Boys Clothing.
Sports, Radio, Electrical, .Cutlery, Travel.
Tools, Taint and Garden Implements—all
contribute a wealth of bargain opportunities
without parallel. . .
There is a big Sale Bulletin, illustrating
and describing thousands of these bargains,
which Murdoch’s will send to any inquirers
FREE and without any obligation. Simply
write to Desk “R,”' Murdoch’s, Ltd., lark
and George Streets, Sydney, and the Bargain
Book will come to you by return mail.
It will interest parents and the boys them-
selves to know that Murdoch’s havc opened
a Club Room in the great Store for the boys
of the Murdoch Birthday Club, where boys
and their parents or friends may rest awhi e
from shopping and enjoy all the special
facilities placed at their disposal. Adjoin-
ing the Club there is a spacious indoor Spoits
Ground where the boys may enjoy then
favorite sport, together with free use of
Murdoch’s equipment —including the popuia
Electric Tennis Service. There is no charge
whatever for admission to the Boys Buth-
day Club, which provides these facilities to
boys and their parents. —Advt.


EnqlishFoolballei
•se
•s endoi
value of SHEAF STOUT
m-m
'yco’9*
m
mMmmmm
SfSwSS
mmM
mm
wmm
p|
W&i&Zsefi
S?*S
3*7., .*£fej
Here is a \\ ell-
deserved tribute
to the health-giv-
ing properties of
Sheaf Stout paid
by the visiting
Rugby League
Team. In the let-
ter below they
say “it definitely
prevents exhaus-
tion after great
exertion”... what
it does for them
it will surely do
for you.
Members of the visiting Rugby
League Touring Team enjoying
Sheaf Stout after strenuous train-
ing at the Sydney Cricket Ground.
o
&
V
\S OS
0°
, V'
% v
■«P
<s e
>\»
fo'tt
v»
Sf/Pcs^
„ ... - v . ««■'
"' >
v>:
v\V
' 2^
A>S»*
v '
* *&
<&*
I
n°:^
i°
.61
V V % ■
<e>
cy
CKT-
O - c,** ° \A
6t e ’ *
• * t e* «-* **
_< e \, e v 0 oP v
yyv*2f' o
6Vt $
e :>; e<
«*- tt /
&
s. O
«L e
S 5 »5 <►#.
* Half the price of
imported stout
and just as good.
X9TSS
TOOTH’S
SHEAF STOUT
icosts no more than bottled ale


fd
1
: V'M/
y&m&eekm
Cash’s Ribbons are
made in daintiest fade-
less Pastel Shades, and
are ideal for Shoulder
Straps and Lingerie.
df
Look like new after
repeated washing—ob-
tainable in a variety of
widths.
Ask your Draper for Cash ’s
J.& J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
Richmond, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
TV7ILL Captain FRANCIS BLACKBURN-
DOE, formerly of England, please com-
municate with SPEHR & ROBERTS,
Solicitors, Mount Gambier, South Australia,
Solicitors for his son, Philip Doe?
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: BLUE ROSES.
With MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD.
KING’S THEATRE: SAINT JOAN,
■ By Bernard Shaw.
Dame Sybil Thorndike and Complete English Co.
QYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
CRITERION: THE BARRETTS OF
WIMPOLE STREET.
Legal Notices.
X° MURRAY JOHN GLOVER formerly of Haw-
thorn Melbourne and of Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MARY GLOVER
has instituted proceedings against you for divorce
on the ground of three years’ desertion. Unless you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of
the Supreme Court in Melbourne Victoria on or
before the eleventh day of July 1932 the case may
proceed in your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs.
MADDOCK, JAMIESON & LONIE, 136 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Public Notice.
AUTHORS invited send short stories, etc.,
to “Journal,” O/o USHER, Printer,
620 Crown Street, Sydney, view publication.
Unused MSS. returned. Send stamps.
For Sale.
DUCKEYE INCUBATOR FOR SALE.—
Model 8, six thousand egg . capacity, in
perfect order. Kerosene heated, with all
copper water-pipes. Complete with fans,
automatic egg trays, thermometers. This is
a real bargain in a Mammoth machine.
Apply for price and particulars to Mann
and Gamble, Ltd., 193 Valentine Street,
Sydney (near P.D.S.).
Pains that Foretell
CRIPPLING
DEFORMITIES
Rheumatism, Aching Muscles,
Stiff y Painful Joints, Backache,
Swollen Hands—these are
Serious Troubles
Don’t take risks! The moment body aches
and pains appear—drive out the cause! Let
Harrison’s Pills rid your system of the uric
acid poison—the origin of those dangerous
pains. Harrison’s Pills, modern antiseptic
remedy of a famous London doctor, definitely
and promptly remove the uric acid crystals
that lie along the nerves and muscles, tor-
turing them at every movement. Immediately
the poison has been removed, the back, joint,
limb and muscle pains disappear and uorihal
health is x-estored. Relief comes quickly, and
it is real, lasting relief. Don’t suffer pain
and risk a useless old age needlessly when
you can get a package of Harrison’s Pills
from your chemist for 2/-. Take as directed,
and if you don’t get the benefit you seek,
your money will be refunded.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
Wliat excitements there were on Satur-
day night! People in the suburbs gave
listening-in parties, with something liquid
ready to celebrate the victory of their par-
ticular mob, or to help them bear its defeat
with fortitude. At Iler Majesty’s, in addi-
tion to ti>e color and vivid music of
“Carmen,” the mercury was kept mounting
still higher with the election results and the
presence of Priminister and Mrs. Lyons; and
lots of Galli-Curci patrons found themselves
later on at the Rose Bay Golf Club having
a snack of supper and listening to returns
till the announcers, their voices husky but
cheerful, closed off at something past mid-
night.
, Those who feel that great progress has
been made with the Feminist movement in
N. S. Wales were rather staggered'by the
poor scores made by the women candidates
on Saturday. Not one of them polled more
than a handful of votes. Yet there is no
question about the intellectual strength of
the candidates, and as speakers they almost
tower above the average of the men. What
happened seems to have been due to some-
thing instinctive. Here was a great peril
to be faced and fought. Never before in the
history of Australia, so the oldest inhabi-
tants assure us, had women been so roused
to the dangers confronting society—the
danger, among other things, of Sovietism
and a complete change in the status of
woman. In that situation she turned in-
stinctively to men for protection. Presently,
the danger past, and the ordinary business
of civilisation resumed, women will call to
women again, and the call will be answered.
Queenslanders in Sydney gave Sir Leslie
and Lady Wilson, daughter Marjorie and
their six-foot son a great welcome the day
after the Otranto berthed. Hordern’s was
the scene of action and luncheon the form
of welcome. Sir Leslie looks like a movie
hero —very erect and well-groomed, and he
speaks in tones an Arliss might not disdain.
Lady Wilson is tall and happy-looking, and
was in warm tones of brown from hat down-
wards. W. G. Layton presided over the
meats and toasts; Bishop Battye and his
lady gave Churchly dignity; Mrs. Mary
Irvine brought the pretty wife of Brisbane’s
Judge Henchman; Arthur Feez was there,
and the new knight, Donald Cameron. And
did you know that Colonel Somerville, of the
R.A.S., and his wife and offspring claim the
northern State as their native land? Well,
they do, and were at the lunch to prove it.
Queenslanders will like Sir Leslie. He
lias a merry eye, and here’s a story of his
youth that will tell them what to expect if
they leave their statuary about and refuse
to smile. Once in the days which every-
body declares were merry and Sir Leslie was
aide to old Sir Harry Rawson, he was out
at a terribly-in-earnest Sunday musical
crush at Rose Bay. He and another hero
had to leave early; and as they were going
out perhaps they decided that what the show
was really short of was a grin. It got it; for
when the hostess and the rest of the guests
were bidding each other farewell in the hall,
a statue of Venus looked down giddily. She
was crowned, Ella Shields-like, with a rakish
silk hat, on one arm an umbrella was crooked
and the other carried a neatly-folded water-
proof.
Lady Wilson has seen a good bit of the
world since she was one of the popular Miss
Smiths, of Goderich, in Darlinghurst. This
is the first time in 23 years she has visited
her native Sydney. She married Sir Leslie
in England, and for five years she lived in
Bombay, of which Province her husband was
Governor. Dark-eyed daughter Marjorie
will help her mother in her Queensland social
duties. The tall son, who was about so
much with, them in Sydney, is a jackeroo
at Toga main, the Jack Robertsons’ place at
Hay; tin younger son is at school at Win-
chester, and will later go on to Oxford.
The Wilsons didn’t bother to move from
their quarters on the Otranto while they
were in Sydney.
They wouldn’t be crowded on the voyage
north. The Carthage had made the trip
the week before with only four and a half
passengers—a result, of course, of the Navi-
gation Act.
An interesting revel of the week was the
cocktail party given to the new Governor
of Queensland and Lady Wilson at the Rose
Bay Golf Club by Mrs. Colin Smith. Colin
Smith and his two sisters —one of whom
married, in young Leslie Wilson, perhaps
the most popular and tactful A.D.C. that
N. S. Wales has known—inherited close on
a million sterling between them. Colin, a
keen racing man, and one of the few ama-
teurs who have ridden at Randwick, married
a Mackenzie. Her father, Colonel Mac-
kenzie, was Commandant at the Paddington
Barracks in the early part of the century,
and a sister is Mrs. Russell Clarke, of Mel-
bourne. The Rose Bay party reflected a
social period which is almost forgotten now
—the Victorian Sydney of brilliant figures
like Mrs. Willie Mitchell and Mrs. Sydney
Burdekin. Prominent in the gathering were
Fairfaxes, Lambs, Stephenses, Allens, Streets
and Walkers of the older generation, some
veteran Hills and Wentworths and a sprink-
ling of young folk. There hasn’t been such
a muster of the Old Brigade for years.
Galli-Curci, the exquisite little musical-
box, blew light as a thistledown on to the
stage of the Town Hall on Saturday. Her
small body—of a dancer rather than a singer
—sparkled with the frost of diamonds and
was enclosed in a silver lamS frock that
fitted firmly almost to the knees, then floated
off into a souffle of tulle, the soft layers
washed with silver. Perhaps the voice was
most haunting in the . Serenata and the
old-fashioned, honey-sweet “Long, Long
Ago.” The singer’s husband, Homer Samuels,
is one of those extremely clean-looking
Americans; he’s quite modest, and plays his
solo numbers without any of the showman’s
avidity to be a good fellow with his audience.
Miss Crowdy’s emerald-green velvet wrap
gave color to a much-furred vice-regal party;
in spite of a special supply of radiators on
the carpet Lady Game stuck to her coat all
the evening Others in this group were
Mayoress Walder and official secretary
Budge and his wife.
The chairs held an overflow audience of
opera stars. Paliughi, snuggled in a squirrei
coat, sat in the same row as Valobra,
modestly coated in black cloth and astrakhan ;
Angelau, Nora Hill and Mollie de Gunst,
Montanari. del Chiaro, Alfieri, Nieis, Jean
and Lute Drummond formed a little colony;
Surani, however, was missed —a bad head-
ache kept her away. Ben Fuller and his
lady were there; Mrs. E. Wunderlich and
Mrs. Hugh Ward sat together; near by
were Mrs. Arthur Scrivener, Mrs. Hazel and
the Benjamin Fullers and a young girl in
white who, coming out into the night, draped
a white lace mantilla of mellow lace Spanish-
wise over her head.
Mrs. Toby Browne has for the present
deserted her younger set of the C.W.A. in
Binalong to help push along the Woolshed
Ball, which is the big offensive of the coun-
try women in
the Use More
Wool cam-
paign. Though
the profits are
for the benefit
of the Harbor-
side branch of
the C.W.A.,
the whole
Wool Week
undertaking is
to help coun-
try men and
women in gen-
eral by stimu-
lating interest
in our great-
es t primary
industry. The
Town Hall is
to be made a
sort of com-
bination wool-
shed and Hall
of the Golden Fleece. Pillars will be
swathed in scoured wool, and wool will out-
line the scrolls and legends about the walls.
Plump and fleecy lambs and sheep which
adorned the J. C. Williamson float for the
Bridge pageant will browse about the stffge;
Consuls by the dozen are being entertained,
and Mrs. Toby Browne is having Japan’s
Consul-General Inoue and his wife as her
guests.
Mrs. Browne, who recently travelled
through Japan, was amazed at the amount
of wool consumed by Madame Chrysanthe-
mum. Japanese babies are entirely clothed
in woolly garments knitted by mother, but
the garments are almost entirely made from
coarse wool yarns. There are knitting classes
in all the schools. Whenever the Australian
pulled out her own knitting, even on the
trains, she would soon become the centre of
a fluttering, admiring group of Japanese
women. She laughs when she confesses that
at first she thought it was her knitting that
lured them; later she discovered it was the
fine quality of her wool. Falk took th 6
photo that goes with this.
The State Exes, brought Sir Leslie Wilson
and daughter Marjorie out to Randwick
with them on Saturday, and the last day of
the races found the stands much more popu-
lated than, the opening. The dressing was
of the topcoat, thick-suit and furs order;
the two bits of color in the vice-regal group
were supplied by Marjorie Wilson’s royal
blue and Joan Gifford’s grass-green topcoat.
With hers Joan wore one of the new
crocheted caps. Captain Honner, who gent.-
helps Sir Leslie Wilson, proved an amiable
bit of background to the enclosure.
Philip Game, the Governor’s elder son,
piDk and white as an English deb., cele-
brated bis 21st birthday on Friday, and the
doors of Government House were flung wide.
Younger Sydney and an older edition or two
poured through into the ballroom, and from
there at the earliest moment on to a terrace
and garden brilliant with floodlights and
rainbow-hued with electrics —rainbows that
were caught and dissipated in the one
moment by the waters of the playing foun-
tain on the top lawn.
The party had a further attraction in Sir
Leslie and Lady Wilson and daughter Mar-
jorie, and, judging by the remarks breathed
by every second flapper, movie-star Maurice
■Chevalier is faced with his first serious rival
in Australia. Lady Wilson is tall and
placid-looking, and was draped in amethyst
chiffons of flowing line. Daughter Marjorie
was in softly-flowing white satin. Sir Philip
and Lady Game greeted everybody in the
most beaming way, and son Philip, wearing
his birthday platinum and pearl studs, and
little sister Rosemary, in the pale yellows
and blues of English spring flowers, helped
the night to speed joyously. The vice-reine
was a graceful figure ,in soft pink satin, its
jacket being caped.
Through the wattle- and poinsettia-decked
hall and rooms mellow with firelight, the
200 guests, many of them Philip Game’s
University friends, danced or loitered, often
pausing to exclaim on the beauty of pink
roses and camellias that clustered on cabinet
and corner table.
Now that all the tumult and the shouting
have died down, let’s give three cheers for
the wife of the State’s new Premier. Mrs.
Stevens has
been a tower
of strength to
her husband
during his
whirlwind
campaign and
the stormy
political days
preceding it.
She has no
ambitions for
public life foi
herself; she is
content to
look after the
comfort of her
family, and
help in every
way possible
the sick and
needy in her
n eighborhood.
Like Primiri-
ster Lyons,
the Premier is lucky in having a wife able
and eager to stand shoulder to shoulder with
him in his hardest campaign. Now that the
fight is won, Mrs. Stevens will have time
again for the little golf and tennis she allows
herself and for her welfare work. Photo,
from Swiss Studios.
The best secretary any Australian club
ever had died last week, and that secretary
was a spinster Irishwoman. Soon ’ after Ted
Simpson and Lachlan Beaton started the
Royal Sydney Golf Club Miss Mary O’Brien
was suggested as an ideal liaison officer
between the committee and the members.
She was offered the job, which was partly
of a business but rather more of a social
nature, and made a remarkable success of it.
She was 73 when she retired four years ago.
A gentle, friendly little woman, with a faint
Dublin brogue slie was distinguished for her
charm of manner and her memory for faces.
It is said that she knew all the huge club’s
hundreds of members by sight and name, and
she had a big list of friends outside golfing
circles.
Old pupils of the Dominican Convent at
Moss Yale are gathering at David Jones’s
on June 23 to play bridge and thereby help
their school. Two aunts of Helen Simpson,
author of “Boomerang,” are members of this
community.
The Australian, Flying Corps’ Association
has for members those who were on active
service during the war in our own or dad’s
air forces. Their yearly ball, held again
at the Wentworth, was one of last week’s
joy spots, and to it the Governor and Lady
Game went happily smiling, with Miss
Crowdy and Lieut.-Commander Gifford
aideing. The Kingsford Smiths couldn’t be
among the dancers, but the new knight sent
a cheerio from Canowindra. Lady Game
brought black chiffons gemmy with diamente,
and Miss Crowdy lettuce-green chiffons.
The George Hartmans, Keith Smith, the
Charlie Ulms (Mrs. Ulm’s moss-green velvets
were drawn into a velvet-petalled bustle),
the Bostocks. Mrs. P. H. Vyner and secre-
tary J. Winslow and his wife were other
well-knowns.
Nearly as much fuss was made of C. J.
Dennis when he arrived the other day as was
made over Queensland’s new Governor. He
was given a civic reception —the first Aus-
traliaiv author to be so honored and the
usual ornamental verbiage was hung about
his neck.
It must he close on 20 years since "The
Sentimental Bloke” became a living bit ot
Australian literature. He grinned up one
Sunday morning from a pile of otherwise
dead MS. poems to which a Bulletin
verse-reader was writing more or less offen-
sive answers. To this day lie remembers the
excitement that shot' through him as he
picked out this winner, fell downstairs and
called the family together for a first release
of the Bloke and Doreen. That sort of
experience doesn’t come too often to' a verse-
reader even of The Bulletin. Then the
Bloke became a book, then a silent picture—
a classic, beautifully acted—with the verse
of the Bloke as captions. Lottie Lyall was
the Doreen of the picture, which was pre-
sented by the Carrolls and produced by Ray
Longford. Poor Lottie Lyall, since dead of
T. 8., allowed the Bloke to know her name
in a manner quite common in that day. Do
you remember where the Bloke whispers for
the first time “’Er name’s Doreen!” Ray
Longford hit upon the idea of making his
heroine wear one of those wire name-
brooches beloved by flappers of a couple of
decades ago. After the silent film the Bloke
became articulate, and under Carroll man-
agement was a highly successful play which
made you laugh and cry in the same breath,
and to which people went over and over
again. That gay bachelor Tommy Cochrane
once confided to this Letter that he had
been no fewer than five times to the stage
version. Pretty little Ray Fisher, who was
part of the excitement of the Ludmayor's
reception, appears in the sound picture as
Doreen.
Every now and again the careful work that
the judges at local eistedfodds put into
their decisions is brought home to us. Last
week Vaughan Hanly, a youngster of 15.
gave a violin recital at the Conservatoriuin.
He has evidently been the rounds of the
suburban ’fodds, for he has won at them no
fewer than 50 gold medals and eight cham-
pionship cups; and just how fair those wins
of his must have been was shown in his
Conservatorium programme, which included
works by Beethoven, Mendelssohn. Papiui.
Corelli and Chopin. He played with great
fluency and singing tone. The youngster
then played a Bach sonata on the ’cello.
Pianist Kathleen Fitzgerald, baritone Clem
Williams and the Golden Grove orchestra
completed the bill.
Brisbane bits: —
Administrator Blair held a King’s Birthday levee
id the old Legislative Council chamber, where naval,
military and judicial fine feathers made a brave show.
Women in the gallery were in gala dress and the
chamber was hung with flags. Prune-colored satin
was chosen by the Blair lady. The Mayoress was in
navy repp, Mrs. Woolcock in black and daffodil,
Mrs. A. B. Steele in navy velours, Mrs. H. E. Sizer
in navy, and Mrs. E. M. Ralph, in cocoa-brown.
Ascot saw a deal of black worn with gay painted
scarves. The Administrator’s wife wore petunia
satin-faced marocain over a lace blouse with a black
velour cloche. Mrs. E. J. Watt (Sydney) was in
black and white; Mrs. A. H. Wliittingham, in black
with a touch of white; Una Bell, in nut-brown and
stone-marten furs; Dorothea Collins chose brown and
beige; Betty Persse, flecked beige and brown; Lilian
Walsh favored black tweed; Mrs. Jack Chandler
was in black with cream lace, and Mrs. A. R.
Godsall in navy and white. Mrs. A. E. Moore sported
lime, green and black ; cherry white and blue-
patterned crepe de Chine was worn by Mrs. C. F.
White, Una Bell was in brown tweed, Mrs. Franklyn
Mort chose hunting green, Ella. O’Shea had a jacket
of pesehaniki and tweed skirt, Mrs. A. Sagar
(Sydney) wore smoke grey, Mrs. Warmold (Charle-
ville) was in grey and red marocain.
Captain Alan Vowles,' D. 5.0., who died suddenly
at his residence, Kangaroo Point, Brisbane, aged
41, went from the A.I.F. to the Imperial Army in
India. He was on Gallipoli and later was badly
wounded in Mesopotamia. He leaves a young widow
and a son.
Nylita Selwyn (Billee), daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
A. C. Morgan, ex-M.H.R. for Toowoomba, took to
husband Phillip Chisholm, youngest son of the late
Leopold Bernays, formerly of Toowoomba, in St.
John’s Cathedral, Brisbane.
At the City Congregational Church, Wilton Kerr
Scott married Kathleen Nieholls. The bride was in
ivory satin beaute and hand-’broidered veil. Dorothy
Nieholls, Zillah Smith and Esniee Noller ’maided
in salmon pink with coronets of flowers.
Dr. Otto Nothling, a former inter-State cricketer,
married Mildred Horsborough in St. Paul’s Church,
Maryborough.
R. Sanderson-Taylor, whom death has taken from
the chair of Brisbane “Courier,” leaves a widow,
a son (who is on the “Sydney Morning Herald”)
and a daughter. Born in Leeds, England, <55 years
ago, he came to Sydney as a boy. A kind and
courtly newspaper head, he will be greatly missed.
In the Jewish Synagogue, Rabbi Levine united
Samuel Hoffman and Deborah Myers. The bride,
who was given away by her father, was in parch-
ment velvet and veil of parchment bridal net falling
from a crown of waterlilies. Sylvia Hertzberg
(Sydney) ’maided in green satin; Joyce Benjamine
and Betty Portraitc, in green organdie, were train-
bearers. The feasting was at Rowe’s and the honey-
moon is a motor tour to Mount Kosciusko.


* 1 J
ar?
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, CaultleiQ,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
'"THE two Australian newspapers whose
reviews of the wonderful colored
picture issue of “The Times Weekly
Edition’’ were quoted in “The Times”
are “The Argus” and
“THE BARRIER MINER,”
one ;i metropolitan and the other a
provincial daily newspaper.
All the Broken Hill people and the Far West
people are proud to see their own daily paper
thus picked out by “The Thunderer” as repre-
sentative of Australia.
o
Or?
o
”o
os
o
t/i
o
m
mwi
O m
n
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
Fine weather encouraged an unusually
large attendance at the Moonee Valley races
on Saturday. Tweeds were much in evi-
dence. Mrs. K. Moore, Gwen Johnston that
was, lately returned from an overseas
honeymoon, was wrapped in a heather tweed
coat and sported a felt hat in two colors.
Mrs. J. J. Liston, who was with Mrs.
Esmonde Downey, wore bungundy-colored
cloth, with beige fur and a felt hat to
tone. Mrs. Lauelilan Mackinnon’s cocoa-
and-fawn speckled tweed coat was worn with
blending velour millinery. Cecelia Fogarty
was a study in powder-blue coat and felt
hat, with grey fur. Eileen Castles, in ruby-
red suit and hat, was having an afternoon
out after a fortnight in hospital with a bad
arm.
For the racing at Flemington the short
coat was much in vogue, hip length being
most favored, particularly when the trim
jacket was of fur. Muffs made an entrance
to keep in countenance the early-Victorian
capes that sheltered some shoulders. Gay
scarves were draped around whole contin-
gents of throats. For frocks brown elbowed
green out of its former position of first favo-
rite, and the number of women wearing
Havana, Barcelona, bracken and the darker
tints of the shade was legion. The new
Governor of Queensland, Sir Leslie Wilson,
who arrived by the Otranto, spent an after-
noon with the geegees, arriving after lunch
with acting-Governor Irvine. Lady Wilson
and her daughter Marjorie and the Irvine
lady were in the v.-r. party. After the
races the Wilsons went to a tea party at the
home of the Russell Clarkes.
The sign of the Rotary Club, a gold and
dark blue wheel, was set up in a regular
forest of palms and ferns on the platform
of the Town Hall on Friday night, when the
Rotarians met for their ball. Miniature
wheels and balloons in matching colors
decked the balconies; Iceland poppies
trimmed the supper tables arranged under
the galleries. Proceeds went to charity. The
ticket secs, were Betty Cameron, who danced
in a dainty frock of lemon-colored georgette
and silk net, and Joan Mitchell, whose blue
gown was traced with silver. Mrs. A. S.
Mitchell was there in draperies of black
lace and georgette; and Mrs. E. Dye chose
similar raiment. Dr. Howard Praagst was
present with liis wife, who looked attractive
in a black gown. Mrs. Clarence Marriott
wore satin of the tint of a La France rose,
and Mrs. C. Nodrum sported a lovely pink
gown. Others in the throng were Lud Mayor
Smith, Dr. and Mrs, J. Clcndinnen and the
former Rotarian president. Dr. Leonard
Mitchell, and Mrs. Mitchell.
On her first entrance as Joan in Shaw’s
play Sybil Thorndike wears the plainest of
mulberry-colored frocks, with her fair hair
dangling in a plait. Gradually she adopts
military attire, ranging from a black suit
with an overlay of mail to the full suit of
armor usually associated with - her pictures,
worn with a sleeveless pointed tunic of blue
velvet brocaded in gold fleur-de-lis. Among
many changes of scene the most effective is
the Ambulatory of Rlieims Cathedral after
the coronation of the Dauphin. Though there
are some Court ladies to trail gorgeous bro-
cades, the men flaunt the gayest attire. Pic-
ture a bishop in purple robe with wine-
colored velvet sleeves and a snood and cowl
cape of emerald-green velvet, topped by a
flat hat of the same vivid shade. Lewis
Casson wore all that as Bishop of Beauvais,
and scarlet gloves as well. Then there are
gentlemen of the Court of France who sport
trained gowns of gold and black brocade. A
split up one side reveals one leg with tights
of contrasting hue. Great angel sleeves that
sweep the ground and have lining of a con-
trasted color and hats of inverted soup-
plate mode with a mass of plumage or cart-
wheel bows of ribbon were correct for Court
wear in 1429. Robert Best was there with
his lady and daughter Helene. Their other
daughter, Phyllis, was on the stage, a page
in blue velvet doublet and hose. Mrs. George
Langridge was in the d.-c., also Mrs. E. O.
MacDevitt, while in the r.-s. were Mr. and
Mrs. Edgar Wright, of Delegate; Carrie
Haase, Mrs. Hewlett, Mrs. L. Macdonald,
Mrs. Cunningham and her daughter Beverley
Jackson.
A gay revue was staged at Malvern Town
Hall on Saturday night to aid the Children’s
Hospital. Paul Plunkct produced the suc-
cessful show, which was entitled “Frith and
Froth.” Ed a. Wills was responsible for
dialogue and sketches. Her bright playette,
“Fashions in Love,” covering three periods
—early Victorian. Edwardian and the
present—went well, also a skit. “Ancient
and Modern Romeos.” Ensembles and
dances were colorful.
With Mrs. Peter Tail as chairwoman, the
Y.W.C.A. is conducting an Opportunity Shop
for 10 days in the vacated premises of the
Metropolitan Electric Supply Co. in Flinders-
lane. Proceeds will go towards the asso-
ciation’s budget. The enterprise was set
rolling by Lud Mayor Smith. Auctions are
held daily with some popular mummer as
auctioneer. Phyllis Best, Madge Elliott,
Cyril Ritchard and Cecil Scott have offi-
ciated to date. The preparation of morning
and afternoon teas and lunches, is included
in the day’s work of the helpers, and cook-
ing demonstrations are a side-line.
At the Lyceum Club Kate Il’addon
gathered together ex-pupils of Shipley House,
South Yarra, and Mary Webster, whose
mother, Mrs. Webster, founded the school,
entertained them at tea. Mrs. McKellar
was elected president of the Shipley Asso-
ciation. members of which will meet twice a
year, and Kate Haddon took on the duties
of hon. sec Miss M. Webster and her
sister. Mrs. Percy Douglas, of Geelong, were
made patronesses.
Over 300 played bridge at the Windsor
for the Children’s Hospital. Stalls for the
sale of sweets and other goods were run by
Mrs. E. B. Laycoek, Mrs. ID Barrett and
Mrs. R. Howard.
Champion cyclist Hubert Opperman made
over all the gate-money —£212—-taken when
he undertook his record-breaking endurance
test recently to the Dud Mayor’s Fund.
When saying “thank you” for the cheque,
knight Harold Luxton handed to Mrs. Opper-
man a boudoir clock as memento of the
occasion.
Farewells to Mr. and Mrs. 11. S. Gullett
have begun. An after-the-races tea party,
given by the Sidney Gulletts; of Toorak led
off the good-byes to the Minister for Cus-
toms and his wife on their departure for the
Ottawa Conference. The hostess wore a
pastel-green wool de Chine frock with match-
ing felt hat and beige-tinted furs. Mrs.
Harry Gullett was a symphony in dark
brown.
At the Grammar School chapel Gwenda,
only daughter of the Hector Ballantines, of
Kew, exchanged vows with Athol, son of
Mr. and Mrs. E. G. Teele, of the same
suburb. The bride’s trained gown was of
white .satin with a tulle veil and wreath and
bouquet of orange buds. Two attendant
’maids in white velvet wore wreaths and
carried posies of scarlet carnations.
The knot-tying of Sadie, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. George A. Rees, of East Malvern,
and Robert Hamilton Anderson, of Barcal-
dine (Q.), was staged at St. John’s Church,
East Malvern. The bride’s filmy lace veil
flowed over a gown of ivory chiffon velvet,
and she carried a sheaf of lilies. Her three
attendant ’maids, in gowns of dark tangerine
velvet, wore wreaths and carried posies of
marigolds.
Dr. Lindsay C. Brittingham, of East St.
Kilda, was linked in All Souls’, Sandring-
ham, to Gwynneth, daughter of Mrs. G. A
Ghettle, of Sandringham. The bride's gown
was of. deep cream tulle and georgette with
a tulle veil, and there were orange-buds and
an armful of roses in the picture. Mrs.
W. N. Ricketts was matron of honor and
Margaret Fairbairn,attendant maid, both in
pale pink gowns with wreaths of roses.
Guests mingled afterwards at No. 9.
At the marriage of Isobel, daughter of
the late Dr. Archibald Hepworth and of
Mrs. Hepworth, of Camberwell, to Cyril, son
of Dr. and Mrs. Edward Fyffe, the bridal
gown of magnolia satin had puffed sleeves
and was inlet on the bodice with lace, over
which cascaded a Veil of tulle. Two small
girls guarded the leading lady’s trailing dra-
peries, and they and the three ’maids wore
pale blue georgette frocks and pink tulle
caps. There was a reception afterwards at
Grosvenor.
Wearing golden-lined velvet and the same
shade of tulle veil attached to a coronet of
orange buds, Dorothy, daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. Reginald H. Hill, of Casterton, was
handed into the safekeeping of Kenneth, son
of the late James Carmichael, and of Mrs.
J. Mitchell, of Casterton. Peggy Hill
attended her sister, her gown and toque
being of night-blue velvet. The Melbourne
Grammar School chapel was the scene
of the ceremony, and there were rejoicings
afterwards at the Windsor.
Pauline Bindley, who smiles out of this
window, will be Violetta in “La Traviata”
when the all-Australian opera co. opens its
season at the Princess next Saturday. She
will wear the
gown worn by
Tetrazzini at
the last Co-
vent Garden
production of
the same
opera pre-
sumably a few
reefs will have
to he taken in
to fit the less
abun d a n t
figure of the
A u s t r a liau.
Miss Bindley
sang principal
roles for five
years in Lon-
don witli the
Carl Rosa co.
at the Lyceum,
and has also
appeared at
the Old Vie.
She is the daughter of Melbourne musician E.
Allen Bindley. Before going abroad she
appeared in the Firm’s production of “The
Beggar’s Opera” and toured with the late
Paul Dufault.
Mrs. Gore Newell launched Eileen
O’Keefe’s poetry-reading circle, culling from
Masefield and the three Sitwells poems of
her choice and giving explanatory notes in
an unpcdantic manner.
The Cairns Memorial Players put on at
the Princess a charity performance of
Barrie’s “Alice Sit by the Fire.” Dorothy
Rush, in black satin with a nearly-backless
top of white satin, took the name-r6le, and
was supported by Ella Bromley as Amy,
the growing-up daughter.
Captain C. A. M. Sarel, R.N., the new
second member of the Naval Board, and his
wife and two daughters arrived from Eng-
land by the Otranto. Also by the same liner
came Commander W. Y. La R. Beverley and
his wife, a handsome young Italian, who
will also take up their residence at the
Naval Depot.
The Colin Frasers are saying au revoir
to Melbourne for some months, being booked
to sail in the Aorangi for Canada.
Mrs. Aubrey Gibson, who appeared with
the Gregan McMahon Players in “Caprice,”
made quite a hit in the leading role of lisa
Von Ilsen. Her dressing was very smart,
including a tailored suit of yellow cloth with
additions of leopard-skin, topped by a black
felt hat. and, later, a gown of Lincoln green
with deep yoke and sleeves of white satin.
Later still a parchment satin evening gown
with glistening shoulder straps set off the
mummer’s good figure. Mrs. Evelyn Burnett
also sported some pretty frocks, among them
being a reseda-green ensemble with light fox
fur. A black chiffon velvet gown suited her
to perfection.
The Palmers, Vance and Nettie, have gone
and marooned themselves on a coral ish>t
somewhere along the Great Barrier Reef,
where they get mail and stores once a week.
They arc enjoying the life and propose later
on to go further north, to Thursday Island
or somewhere in that vicinity.
On this Page Mrs. lan Macfarlan and
her three co-artistic workers were wrongly
credited with having designed the costumes
for the recent production of “Da Manage
Force.” Their contributions were the masks,
which' they both designed and made. Blamife
Young designed the costumes.
Mrs. James White, who lias given an
almost new family home at Lilydale to be a
rest home for convalescent and tired gentle-
women, plus an endowment of £lOOO a year,
was formerly the owner of Devon Park, Dun-
keld, in the western district. Her gift is
worth approximately £40,000. The trustees
may require the guests (who must be Pro-
testants) to pay not less than 10s. a week.
A pretty Adelaide girl, Janet Flint, who
has just completed her training as a minis-
tering angel at Melbourne Hospital, sailed in
the Mariposa for ‘Frisco, with her glory-
box and some wedding presents. She is to
be married on arrival to Roger Burden, an
engineer, also formerly of Adelaide.
Mrs. Harry Emmerton’s 0.8. E. is well
merited, for there are very few charitable or
social movements in which she has not played
an active part —and her part usually entails
liberal spending.
Speaking at Bairnsdale before the election,
Stanley Argyle was talking about the gold
standard, and oratorically asked, “Now
America —what has America done?” “Killed
Pliar Lap!” snapped an angry masculine
voice, and it was some time before the audi-
ence was able to return its mind to the con-
sideration of weighty economic problems.
Among passengers in the Mariposa are Mrs.
J. G. Cotchett, of Brighton, and her son,
who will stay some months, in California
with' relatives and friends. After seeing his
wife and family settled aboard, Mr. Cot-
chett started off to join the Oronsay in
Adelaide for a business visit to England.
The family will reunite in the U.S.A. and
return to Melbourne about Christmas time.
The central executive of St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital boiled the billy at the Windsor to wish
Mrs. Cotchett a pleasant trip, and gave her
a crocodile-skin bag.
Pictured here is the English actress Sybil
Thorndike, Avho opened her season in “Saint.
Joan” at the King’s on Saturday. Follow-
ing the highest traditions of the English
stage she
came from a
parsonage, her
father being
an Anglican
canon. One of
her sistets is
on the stage
a n d li c r
brother Rus-
sell Thorndike
is a novelist
and p 1 a y-
wriglit. Dame
Thorndike was
headed for a
career as a
solo pianist,
hut Raving to
give this up
she joined a
repertory so-
ciety and even-
tually sailed
to prof e s-
sional stardom in Shakspearean roles. She
has played a lot of modern tragedies and
comedies and was Nurse Cavell in the film
“Dawn.” In her present co. are her hus-
band, Lewis Casson, and their son Chris-
topher. Their two daughters, Anne and
Mary, are making their way in the English
talkies.
Adelaide ambles in :
The Adelaide Racing Club’s meetings have all been
well attended. Some extraneous excitement .was
provided by a young matron who dropped £2OO
worth of jewellery from her handbag, and had it
returned the next day by a racecourse cleaner.
There was a large muster at afternoon tea on the
last day in the committee-room, where Mr. J. Hall
and his daughter Muriel entertained the club’s
guests, among them the Mayor and Mayoress: .Miss
Hall wore a black tailored suit and black velour
hat, with stone-marten fur; Mrs. C. R. J. Glover
was in a dark tweed ensemble, with a beige vest
and a black toque. Every other woman was in a
black tailored suit and black felt bat, and hair
was worn long enough to touch the shoulder, an
unbecoming fashion for those who have bidden
good-bye to their childhood.
The matron and nurses at the Adelaide Children’s
Hospital gave a cheery dance in the out-patients’
ward; among the guests were many of the medical
staff. Tom King’s orchestra gave the necessary
pep to the show, and the floral decorations were
beautiful.
Dame Sybil Thorndike, Mr. Lewis Casson and their
English company spent an enjoyable Sunday morning
when the English-Speaking Union motored them to
the home of Hans Ileysen. at Ambleside, where the
artist’s wife and daughters entertained them at
morning-tea. ■ Later they had luncheon at Mount
Lofty, an alfresco affair, visited the garden of
Langdon Bonython, and returned to the city via
Waterfall Gully.
Shirley Burns Cuming, one of the most popular
girls at Adelaide University, has been chosen Queen
of the Uni. Lacrosse Club, in connection with the
Lacrosse Association carnival to raise funds for the
team. There is to be an intef-Uniyersity ball on
August 18 in the refectory, when the Melbourne
University lacrosse and football teams are in Adelaide.
The Victoria League gave a delightful at-home
at the South Australian Hotel, when the committee
entertained Dame Sybil Thorndike and Mr. Lewis
Casson, with some of their company. Mesdames T. E.
Barr-Smith, Dudley Turner and John Baker received
the guests. Dame Sybil wore a leaf-green woollen
marocain ensemble trimmed with bands of black
musquash and a close-fitting black toque.
Mrs. Wordsworth James has been hostess at two at-
homes given at the Wentworth, Liberal Club Build-
ings. The first was a bridge party, and the second a
musical affair. Songs composed by the hostess,
“Blue Roses” aud “My Blue Rose,” were sung by
Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson and Mrs. John Close.
Mrs. Wordsworth James recited several of her own
compositions, and the guests were interested in her
historical memory cloth, upon which over 300 cele-
brated names, including those of the King and
Queen, have been inscribed. Colonel Eric Campbell
and Captain de Groot are the latest on the scroll
of fame.
A line from the Speck—
Claremont Golf Club has had a President’s Day
on the links and a night at the Continental, the
latter to augment the club’s funds. Bridge was
played till 10.30, at 28 tables; supper and dancing
followed. Janet MePhee and W. H. Gray were
joint organisers.
The T.R.C.’s meeting at Elwick drew a fair
crowd and tile autumn trees surrounding the course
looked their best in the golden sunshine. The Thomas
Lyons couple entertained many guests at tea. in the
private pavilion. Mrs. Lyons was in dark blue
wool crepe with small velour hat. Among the
guests was Dame Mary Hughes, with her daughter
Helen. Mrs. A. J. Miller was in beige and black.
There were plenty of red tones in the color scheme.
In the throng were knight Elliott Lewis and his
lady; tfw D. 0. Lewises, the Alan Millers, the
Leslie Gibsons, the Fred Grants, the Russell Ibbotts,
Mrs. .Henry Allport, the .lames' Murrays, the A. P.
Crispy and Dr., and Mrs, Galia. The younger set
included Betty Ross-Reynolds, home from her long
stay in the north, Wanda Piesse, Margaret Miller,
Jean Tinning, Stella. Shone, Margaret Lewis, Meg
Ingles and Dorothy Macgowan.
New entrants for the Matrimonial Stakes'—Joan,
only daughter of the late Norman and Mrs, Dodds,
and Sidney Laws, Hawke’s Bay, Maoriland; also
Susie M., only daughter of the G. L. Finlays,
Campbelltown, and Charles B. Roekliff, Sassafras.,
The glorious weather of the last few weeks has
served local golf clubs well. The Royal Hobart
Associates had a fine muster on Country Day,
when Richmond, Claremont, Oatlands, New Nor-
folk and Royal Hobart clubs had representatives
at Rosily. Mrs. Bayley (Richmond) and Mrs.
Gurney (Royal Hobart), tied for the Country Cup,
and the final play-off gave Mrs. Gurney the prize.
The N. P. Booths entertained a big crowd at
President’s Day on the Claremont golf links. Miss
Fisher and R. Headland won the mixed foursomes;
Miss Barclay and R. P, Booth came home with the
best gross score, 87.
The James Murrays, having given up Mrs. Mac-
leod’s house in Sandy Bay-road, where they have
been living for some months, have flitted to the
mainland for the rest of the winter.
Perth’s packet:—
The last winter race meeting at Ascot, finished in
perfect weather. To compensate for the plane trees
having joined the nudist cult, the lawns were
green carpets and tardy gladioli and chrysanthemums
made a brave show in the flower beds. A parade
of high-stepping yearlings.was a between-race feature.
Mrs. Langlois Lefroy swung a cardinal’s cape in
black velvet folds from her shoulders to the hem of
her frock; Mrs. TempeVley had mulberry-clad Jose-
phine under the wing of her full-length peschaniki;
Betty Atkins (Adelaide), wearing Burgundy and a
hard-brimmed sailor-hat, was introduced by cousin
Mollie; Mrs. Byron wore brown-flecked tweeds;
Margot Law had orange splashes upon her brown
frock, while Edith Trethowan’s grey stripes ran
diagonally; Mrs. Cam Milne, all in Robin Hood-
green, did some joint punting with Mrs. Oscar
Copley, looking nice in brown; Eileen Hayes chose
navy, white-flecked; Elizabeth Edwards, in green,
sported the smallest hat on the lawns ; Neva Hocking,
wearing a fur fabric coat, walked with Mollie
Murray in green-flecked tweeds; Mrs. Join Monteath’s
well-cut suit was noticeable, as was Helen Vincent’s
berry-red rig; Mrs. Mick Lavan had a stone-marten
slung across the shoulders of her grey tailored
costume.
Old Loreto girls were invited by the sisters to a
reception at Osborne for Rita Miller. Rita has had
six years abroad. She has sung at the Paris Opera
House and has another job waiting there on the
termination of her tour with John Brownlee. She
came to the at-home in cherry-red fluted georgettes,
with red heels *to her silver slippers. Marcia Hodges
sang tunefully and Ronnie Lake played brilliantly a
modern composition. Mary Ward arid Shirley Grave
showed what present pupils can do in the way of
recitations. Supper was served in the hall by some
neat cream-uniformed little boarders.
Owing to the Salvation Army’s booking of His
Majesty’s, where General Higgins held a paeked-
to-the-rafters meeting, the Symphony Orchestra
transferred itself for its first June concert to G.-11.
ballroom. This year G. R. Reid is conductor and
H. Lenzer is, leader. The John Brownlees and Miss
Miller were there, Mrs. Brownlee all in black and
very smart and Miss Miller enveloped in a grey
squirrel coat. The Jinnny Mitchells and the pro-
fessorial Rosses welcomed the trio to the fi’ont row
of a crowded ballroom.
The W. J. Randell couple threw in a party with
the coming-of-age birthday gifts for second-daughter
Beryl. Their Mount Lawley home was all dressed
up with chrysanthemums and greenery and a marquee
sprang like a giant mushroom on the tennis court.
Mrs. Randell offered her welcoming handclasps in
black chiffons; Ina was in orchid satins and Beryl’s
angel’s skin blushed a delicate pink.
G.-H. ballroom is once again on a rising wave of
popularity. The dental students held their annual
frisk beneath its great white dome, supping below
stairs to a color symphony of golden wattle and
scarlet poinsettias. Mrs. Needham put in an appear-
ance in Lido-blue georgettes; Mrs. Tom FI i ntoff’s
cream satin was dashed with scarlet; Claire Holm
wore pale pink laces; Alice Biggs chose a deeper
shade of shrimp-pink; Betty Sewell fluttered a mesh
of black cobweb; Phyllis Hoare’s black ring velvets
were hoisted to glittering shoulder straps; Maisie
Campbell put her best foot forward in strawberry
velvets embellished with pink marabout; Margaret
Prisk was in apricot and Miss Rotenberg in lilac
’broidered with conventional liowerlets.


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
[D. H. Souter —l2/11/'92 —one of the first he did for The
Bulletin.]
The old and hoary dodge of our fathers
has been repeated with the usual disastrous
results at Wellington (N.Z.), and another
respectable family has gone into mourning
over the corpse of its dead reputation. The
principal sinner was an old and esteemed
Government official, and the other person
involved in the transaction was> his wife. It
was a peaceful, moonlight night, with the
ghost of a lost zephyr rustling faintly among
the hills, and the male malefactor, for pur-
poses of his own, had stated that he would
be detained till a late hour toiling in the
service of an ungrateful nation. She said
that under these circumstances she would
spend the night with her sister. But about
two hours later he was floating serenely
down the harbor with two wildly dissipated
friends and three third-rate actresses, and
they were howling a comic song in chorus,
and the ladies had borrowed their bell-
toppers and had lent their own bonnets in
exchange, so that the party looked like six
Aunt Sallies all liquoring up on the bosom
of the sea. And just then they nearly ran
down another boat loaded with a crowd of
revellers who were also whooping a song
and throwing empty champagne bottles over-
hoard. And from* that other boat, as the
two vessels grazed each
other, there came the shriek
of a deceived wife out on the
rampage with two other
ladies and six vociferous
male companions—a shriek
that seemed to be compounded
of a railway smash and a
drunken boarder trying to
get upstairs on his hand, and
an 801 b. dumb-bell falling
into a dinner-service, and a
lion breaking up a tea-meet-
ing, and a rhinoceros charg-
ing a stock of galvanised
iron; and the guilty pair
realised that their scheme
was exploded. Both were
seized at once with the idea
of establishing an alibi, and
the two boats fled in two dif-
ferent directions for the
shore, and when they got on
land each party started at a
run for home with the idea
of getting into bed and being
fast asleep before the other
arrived, but this project un-
happily fell through. The
lady nearly killed a tired
cab-horse on her journey*
but just as she reached the
door her husband rounded the
opposite corner on foot, with
his hat gone and all the
buttons started off his waist-
coat, and they met. Then
they repudiated the marriage-
tie upon the doorstep, and
finally the wife departed in
hysterics in the bottom of
the cab, and took the key
with her, and the locked-out
husband slept at a pub. It
is the same old trouble that
the human race has kept fall-
ing into ever since Joseph
was made a co-respondent
and Potiphar went looking-
for a decree nisi in Esrypt,
and it had the same ending
It always does, somehow.
[24/l/’9l. |
There are some pitiably weak points about
Australian law, and one of them turned up
last week at Melbourne. A gentleman wear-
ing a stolen suit of clothes was arrested
for larceny, but when the prosecutor was
wanted, it transpired that he was in bed.
and couldn’t come out, because the vanished
clothes were the only ones he bad. The
spectacle of an absolutely naked plain till
appearing before the Bench, he pointed out.
was not provided for in the code, and there-
fore he suggested that the attire should be
taken off the prisoner and that person be
left in his natural condition in the cell, and
then if some minion of the law would
kindly fetch the articles along he would
dress himself and
testify in the box.
This view of the
situation was laid
before the prisoner,
but he very reason-
ably stated that he
wouldn’t appear
naked in the dock
for all the police
in Christendom —
he would see the
country blowed
first. Upon this,
another deputation
went round to the
prosecutor’s house,
and offered to fetch
him down in a cab
with a blanket
round him, and
then if he could
identify the clothes
the prisoner would
be undressed forth-
with ; but the
prosecutor re-
minded them that
he had no pockets
in his nude state,
and no money in
his absent pockets,
and he couldn’t pay
the cab, and no-
body else seemed
authorised to pay
for it either, and
even though he got
down to the lock-
up there was
always a chance
that the clothes
might not be his.
and then he would
be turned loose in
the streets —a lost
atom in a blanket;
in short, he would
also see the coun-
try blowed first.
Next the force
made another ap-
peal to the prisoner,
and asked him as a
man, a brother and a citizen to give up the
clothes and go into the dock in a sheet, but
he bade them depart into Gehenna, and
asked them if they took him for an idiot.
What happened during the next two hours
no one knows, but the police were rendered
desperate by this time, and it is- presumed
they took strong measures. Anyhow, when the
case was called two hours later, the plain-
tiff was there, clothed and in his right
mind, and the defendant was disguised in
a Chinaman’s left-off costume, and seemed
woefully unhappy. Possibly the Mongolian
suit went against him. for he was sent up
for a month. [l7/1/’9l.]
A handsome piece of “skite” from the
Broken Hill (N.S.W.) “Budget”:—
The whole of Pitt-street, Sydney, with the build-
ings on either side of it, could lie hidden in payable
ore in the Broken Hill lode, and then there would
be room for Collins-street, in Melbourne, Rundle-
street, in Adelaide, and all the public-houses and
churches in Australia, as well as the Royal Navy
and every merchant steamer in the world; and, sup-
posing all the ore represented by these streets and
buildings and ships were taken out, there would, to
all appearances, still be left in the mines 100 years
of profitable work, even if the quantity of ore treated
weekly were twice as great as it is now. —[7/2/’93.J
BLOOD.
THE GOVERNOR (admiring the doctor's horse): "That's
a fine beast you’re riding.”
THE DOCTOR: “Yes, he’s fairly well-bred.”
THE GOVERNOR (slyly): “You can’t beat blood, can
you?”
REPUBLICAN DOCTOR: “No —not in a horse!"
[G. R. Ashton. —21/1/’93.]
IN “THE BENEVOLENT.”
“I’m off on the wallaby!” cries Old Ben,
And his pipe is lit, and his swag is rolled;
“There is nothing here for us old-time men,
But up north, I hear, they are on the
gold.”
And he shuffles off with a feeble stride,
With his ragged swag and his billy black.
He is making tracks for the other side,
O’er the river deep or the Great Divide;
But at night, dead beat, he travels back.
Then at morn next day he is off again,
With an eager light in his agbd eyes,
Tramping away on his journey vain
For the land of promise beyond the rise.
Over the range there is work to do,
There is roaring life at the shanty bars.
He will tramp the plains whilst the skies
are blue,
And will wander the great wide bushland
through,
And be soothed to sleep by the blinking
stars.
In the garden gay where the old man roams
Pied poppies sway on their supple stalks,
And the fair white rose on the soft breeze
foams,
And the pansies peep by the gravelled
walks;
But his brow by the breeze of the hills is
fanned.
And the clink of bells to his quick ear
comes.
When he shades his eyes with his withered
hand,
He sees silent rivers and ranges grand,
Or a still lagoon under silver gums.
“Are you bound out back, Ben?” the children
cry,
And they peer at him through the fence,
and shout:
“Well, it’s so long, Ben,” as he hobbles by,
With his “Aye, aye, sonny lad —tramping
out!”
HENRY PARKES AND “UNCLE” ABIGAIL.
[Phil May. —/2/’B7.]
[Abigail, Minister for Mines in one of Parke s’s later Cabinets, was chairman also of a banking
CO. which The Bulletin regarded as a superior pawnshop; hence Abigail’s attitude Parkes had just
been awarded the Cobden Club’s medal for service to the cause of Freetrader]
On his back lie’s bearing his house and bed,
As he bore them both in his manhood’s
pride,
Pressing on each day till his strength has
fled,
By the force of his dauntless spirit led —
There’s a shed for him on the Sydney
«ide.
Thougli _ his sight may fail and his limbs
give way,
Yet no weakness touches his brave old
heart,
And lie cries each night: “At the break of
T _ , „
I must strap up bluey and make a start!
And they humor him, for the time is near
When he 11 tramp no more under changeful
_ skies,
But will leave his travels and troubles here,
Take the truck God blazed with his stars, and
r „ steer _ .
To the Never Land just, across the rise.
[3/6/93.]
EDWARD DYSON.
OUR MUSICAL NEIGHBOR.
Dense scrub, a network of leaves and
twigs with branches interlaced. Here the
prostrate trunk of what was once a mon-
arch, now partly sheltered by scrub that
from its infancy has watched and learned
by the signalling of its mighty arms whether
the elements meant war or peace; while
huge quilts of moss and creepers are cover-
ing the scars won in centuries of seasons.
There, a charmed circle, in which an old-
man fern stands guard with graceful leaves
spread protectingly over their withered
brethren still clinging to the parent stem
below, while from the crown fresh fronds
are daily strengthening for the same duty
when the strong grow "weak.
Then the sound of water gurgling ’neath
the scrub, telling of the mighty leaps ’twill
take when the falls are reached, and the
mad round dance with foam and bubbles in
the pool below ere joining the quiet river
on its seaward course.
All is damp and dripping. If by chance
some straggling sunrays pierce the leafy
dome overhead each precious gem has repre-
sentatives on every leaf and twig, and Fairy-
land is rivalled.
Such is Stinkwood Greek in winter-time.
The gold was good, but patchy—patches
of one or two men’s ground with long blanks
between. The camps were scattered, the
nearest to us a quarter of a mile away, the
only camp in the up-creek direction, occu-
pied by “Ned the Hatter.” Our tents were
facing each other, one fly and fire doing
duty both for myself and Bob Eaton, who
held the adjoining claim.
It was not uncommon to hear revolver-
shots after dark. Tiger-cats were numerous
and daring.
It was just dark. Bob and I sat looking
at each other through a cloud of steam from
drying clothes hung about the fire, rim '’av
having been a soaker. It was drizzling
still, although the night was calm. We
heard a pistol-shot in, Ned’s direction.
“Another cat gathered to its fathers,
if Ned held his shooting-iron straight,” said
Bob. “He seems a morose fellow—one of
the keep-to-yourself sort.”
Some ten minutes passed in smoking
silence broken only by the raindrops from
the fly, when we were startled by a loud and
agonised cry. Something had evidently
happened to Ned. The cries being repeated,
we hastily lit candles and started off.
Travelling through scrub in wet weather,
• ■specially by candlelight, is like —well, to
cut description short, the funnel trick’s “a
fool to it.” We had arrived within a hun-
dred yards of Ned’s camp, the cries seeming
meanwhile to have grown fainter, when
Bob splashed in a shallow prospect-hole and
exploded with wrath. But his volley of
language was cut short by the most awful,
blood-curdling cry I ever heard.
A creepy sensation strayed at the small
of my back, travelled upwards to my hair-
tips, and seemed to bury itself inside my
cap. I could see waves of paleness pass
over Bob’s face, till he appeared like marble.
I felt pale—which was worse.
We now moved forward without speaking,
both feeling that Ned’s career was closed.
Soon we came within sight of his camp-fire,
which was burning brightly. Ned was
stretched on a slab in front of it, perfectly
still —so still. Advancing with difficulty
through the chopped-down scrub, we were
within a few feet of the body when it sud-
denly sat on end, and Ned’s hand grabbed
at a revolver on the slab. “Mad! Mad!”
I said, turning to make for the nearest
cover and shortest cut home, when Bob
(who always seemed to have his wits about)
said, soothingly: “Why, Ned, old man,
what’s the matter?”
Ned, seeming to recognise us, put the
revolver aside (with that movement iny
heart went back into its right place, or
nearly so) and said, while the color
returned to his face, “Oh, you heard me
shoot! I was a fool to do it, but one of
those blessed cats was in my frying-pan.
I missed the cat, but: not the pan, which” ——
“Damn the cats!” sharply interrupted
Bob, who could now see that nothing was
amiss. “Why the deuce were you shouting
out to us?” ,
“I wasn’t shouting out for you,” replied
Ned, guessing something was wrong, “only,
feeling lonesome like, I was trying my hand
at ‘Nancy Lee.’ ”
The silence was simply awful. The rain
even had ceased. And then Bob said calmly
and solemnly: “Look here, Ned, you are a
much older man than I, but take my advice
—never you attempt to sing until the I lay
of Judgment, and then just you apply to
the Deity for the billet of sounding the Last
Trump. You’re sure to get it.” With this
he waved his candle and was gone.
[l6/12/’93.]
HORIZONTAL SCRUB.


The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
reedom from
pinking. Easy
starting. Instant
acceleration. Top
gear climbing.
More miles per
gallon. Effortless
speed . . .
QLNEW
ANTI-KNOCK PETROL
gives them aft!
The latest achievement in Motor Spirits. Available everywhere*
C 1.34.36
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.),
Poolman Street, Port Melbourne, 5.C.7 :: ’Phone: M 3261 :: Refinery: Laverton, Victoria Sydney: 117 Pitt Street
Agents for South Australia and Country Districts of New South Wales: • - DALGETY & CO. LTD.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“One Hour with You.’atSydney Prince
Edward, is a typical Lubitsch eftort. . That
is to say it has several new tricks, which are
hound to be copied by other directors (tor
example, Maurice Chevalier asks the audi-
ence for sympathy and advice in Ins adul-
teries) ; it is sexy, but the sexiness is of
tii e sniggering kind that always. gets past
censors; it is as lavish as an interior decora-
tor’s dream of home; the dialogue and photo-
graphy are clever, .and it moyes with the
smooth efficiency of a Blue Train. The plot
is based on the fascination of Chevalier. He
and Jeanette MacDonald are happily mar-
ried ; they are shown in bed, early in the
piece, singing,* of their love. Unfortunately,
her seductive friend, Genevieve Tobin, has
designs on him. He fights hard for his honor,
but is defeated. At a party while she is
trying to lure him into the garden, and he is
weakening, she basely undoes his tie. Now
no film hero is capable of tying an evening-
dress tie; it is a convention similar to the
stage one which compelled every villain to
smoke cigarettes. Further, an unfastened tie
implies what the Courts call misconduct. As
lie stands on the terrace helpless, a shorn
Samson morally speaking, male friends
observe his plight and wink meaningly. There
is nothing else for it; he dashes after the
ladv to have his tie adjusted. Later Miss
MacDonald, justly incensed, undoes and re-
fastens the neck-wear of Charles Buggies—
extremely funny as an intense Lothario. The
proceedings end in the air, with Miss Tobin's
husband —brilliantly played by Roland
Young—applying for a divorce, and Maurice
reconciled to Jeanette. It all bears a shadowy
resemblance to life; except that young French
doctors (or indeed young doctors of any
nationality) don’t live in the splendor that
delights the rococo soul of Lubitscli, and
young wives (and particularly French ones)
aren’t such idiots as Miss MacDonald is
made to appear. The celebrated Chevalier
charm is again in evidence; in fact he gri-
maces, rolls his fine eyes and mouths his
vowels more obviously than ever. The
MacDonald is less wooden than in previous
films, and she looks lovely when she smiles,
which is often. The music is catchy and
the sound is exceptionally good.
# ¥ *
“Service for Ladies” (Paramount) is
billed as second string at Sydney Regent, but
easily outshines the top-liner. There is a
cast of well-known English players and an
amusing story full of unexpected asides. Max
Tracey (Leslie Howard), the polished head
waiter of a fashionable London hotel, falls
in love with Sylvia Robertson (Elizabeth
Allan), an heiress. At the commencement she
is unaware of his infatuation. Sylvia and
her father leave London for a vacation in
the Austrian Tyrol and Max obtains, leave
of absence and follows them. Staying at
the same hotel incognito—though all the
guests know who he is—is a King of a
small European monarchy,. The King recog-
nises Max, but promises not to give him
away, and spends a good deal of time in
Max’s company. The friendship gives rise
to the belief that Max is also a royal per-
sonage. Sylvia, thinking him to be a blue .
blood, interprets Max’s reluctance to take her
fbr his wife —the pair reach this stage in
the course of a few days—because, of social
differences. Max agrees that it is so but
doesn’t get a chance to explain further. The
head waiter finally goes back to London
leaving a tearful Sylvia to think that he is
a snob. A little later when she meets him
at work in London she is indignant and sets
out to humiliate him. Thence the story floats
rapidly to its happy ending. Commendable
features are the smoothness of Leslie Howard,
the humorous touches contributed by George
Grossmith as the King, and clever charac-
terisations by Morton Selt.en, Ben Field and
Annie Esmond. The other film, “No 1 One
Man” (Paramount), is concerned with what
happens to an impetuous man-chaser (Carole
Lombard), who throws aside a decent fellow
(Paul Lukas) and links up with a drunken
waster (Ricardo Cortez). Lukas plays the
only part that evokes any sympathy, and
his only reward, poor fellow, is that he is
allowed to become the second husband of a
very nasty piece of work.
* * *
“Over the Hill” (Fox), at Sydney Plaza,
shows that Mae Marsh can act without the
aid of D. W. Griffiths. As Ma Shelby she
is every woman whose husband “has a weak
back” and cannot work. She slaves to pay
the sewing-machine instalments, worries over
the grocer’s bill, and spends most of her life
in the service of her unruly kids. She draws
them back to her each Christmas when they
have all married. Then Johnny (James
Dunn), who has remained single to help
keep his parents, becomes engaged to Isabel
(Sally Filers)/ After saying the most
natural “good-night” to her that ever deco-
rated the screen, he finds his dad driving
his, Johnny’s, car. The old mail, tired of
waiting for a long-promised “Guv’ment job,”
has taken to bootlegging. A prohibition en-
forcement officer is shot. To save dad for
ma’s sake, Johnny takes the blame and goes
to gaol, without heroics, for three years.
Dad dies, through remorse chiefly, and then
the old lady’s troubles begin properly. She
goes from one child’s home after the other,
is unwanted and finally settles at the hypo-
critical Isaac’s, to whom Johnny, out of
prison and with an Arctic exploration party,
isv sending money for her welfare. Johnny
returns, having inexplicably made his pile
in Vrosty surroundings, and learns that
Isaafi (Olin Howland) has let her go to
the Yankee equivalent of the workhouse.
Johnny jumps on him for this outrage, is
frog-marching him along to get “maw” out,
when Isabel intervenes and makes him for-
give the canting Isaac. Then Johnny brings
the old lady home again. The domestic-sen-
timent isn’t laid on with a trowel and the
acting :is admirable.
Tan Wed with the commonplace “Secret
Witness,” made according to Columbia’s
mysteyy hash recipe, at Sydney Mayfair, is
the unusual “Mad Parade.” No. man
appears in this Paramount war-picture,
which purports to be a slab from
the life of women war-workers within
coo-ee of the front line. Irene Rich is boss
of a canteen unit, and her workers include
Lil (Lilyan Tashman) and a blonde young-
ster known as Jane. Lil, with her hot-
water bottle bloated with cognac, runs away
with the first half of the picture; then, hav-
ing created the atmosphere, leaves Evelyn
Brent, the hard r bitten “Duchess,” to bring
in the drama. Shell-stormed while taking
comforts to the front line the women seek
refuge in a dug-out. One girl is dying.
Watching her whilst the others sleep the
“Duchess” confesses to Lil she wants two
things: Jane’s lover and to stay at the
front, as her war-racked nerves won’t stand
civilian routine again. Jane overhears, but
before hair begins to fly the unit’s spoil-
sport intervenes. This is her big chance
to get back on the “Duchess.” She will
have her sent home for spending a night
with Jane’s man at the inn. A grenade is
handy, and the “Duchess.” throws it. The
boss arrives. Jane refuses, despite the
“Duchess’s” taunts, to tell how the “snoop”
was killed. Then they learn the dug-out is to
be shelled by their own guns, and the
“Duchess” saves them all by sacrificing her
oavii life.
¥ - * *
While a Sydney audience at Her Majesty’s
viewed a flesh-and-blood “Carmen” on Satur-
day, Lyceum patrons, half a block away,
gazed upon a talkie of the same opera made
by British International Pictures. Despite
the assurance of the sponsors that “the
entire action was photographed on the actual
locale of the story,” the sets in the earlier
part of the film look mighty stagey. Towards
the end there are a few gorgeous mountain
panoramas, a fine scene of a road leading
into a walled town, a bird’s-eye view of a
bull-ring and one or two other authentic
shots. Acting and singing are fairly satis-
factory. Marguerite Namona’s Carmen was
on the heavy side. Thomas Burke, a Covent
Garden tenor, makes a melodious Don Jose
and Lance Fairfax’s delightful voice gets
scope as the toreador. The orchestral accom-
paniment is fine. The production doesn’t
bring the world any nearer the ideal opera
performance.
“The Sentimental Bloke” (Efftee) mooched
on to the Sydney Capitol screen last. Friday
in the presence of a large gathering of
admirers. F. W. Thring has succeeded in
making an excellent picture of Dennis’s story
of the reformation of a larrikin. The settings
are realistic, the sound effects clear and
audible, and the photography first-class. The
thing is well cast, too. The Bloke, as played
by Cecil Scott, could scarcely be improved
upon. Ray Fisher's Doreen is an under-
standable reason for the Bloke’s moral re-
generation and Tal Ordell’s Ginger Mick is
a likeable fellow. Athol Tier, as Arty, and
Keith Desmond, as Uncle, added merriment.
Others in the cast are Dora Mostyn (Ma),
William Carroll (“The Stror ’At Coot”),
Edna Morcombe (Effie) and Les Gordon
(’Erb).
“The Finger Points,” at Sydney Hay-
market, must have been in cold storage for
some time, for in it Clark Gable, now the
cause of a million female heart palpitations,
is just a gangster’s offsider. Richard Bar-
tlielmess is Lee, a reporter fresh from the
country, who goes to a job on a big city-
daily, falls in love with the sob-sister (Fay
Wray), and is bribed by gangsters not to
expose their underworld doings. It has one
exciting moment. Warned that the gangsters
are after him because they think he has
double-crossed them, Lee is skulking round a
street corner and bumps into a parson in-
stead of the expected gunster. Shot down
in the street, he is buried as a martyr by
hig circulation-hungry paper. However,
there’s Regis Toomey, another reporter, to
console the sob-sister.


DOPE
BY
GRANTLEY LORRENS.
Synopsis: Ernest William Johns,
M.A. Oxon., brought by cocaine to a
marc subsistence by freelancing, saves
beautiful but raucous Etty Smith
from a half-breed’s knife in a Sydney
waterfront “dive.” Aboard the Surf
Queen, he accepts her father’s offer
of a steady job and a chance to regain
his health. Etty helps him fight his
cravings, and after a few weeks he
has to go to her for dope rations less
frequently. But her ministrations
fire the jealousy of Ols Jornsen, mate.
Taunted by Varley, the cook (“the
doctor”), Ols brings “snow” from
Townsville and tempts the agonised
Johns. Etty intervenes; as she tends
him Johns realises that she, who is far
short of his ideal, loves him. Captain
Smith, her father, realises it, too; he
sacks Jornsen, making Johns acting
first mate. When Varley confesses he
loves Etty, Johns agrees it is only
right to tell her he, Johns, does not
love her; but keeps putting this off.
At Lola-Panga, where Smith is after
deep-water pearl-divers, Fay Campbell,
on a cruise in her father’s steam yacht.
Aretliusa, visits Etty—and Johns
meets his ideal. Campbell is astounded
when Johns refuses his offer of assist-
ance. That night Johns dreams of
the day when he, free, may go to Fay.
BOOK lI—SHIPS THAT PASS.
Chapter I.
THE silence of the night was absolute.
The surface of the still lagoon was a
mirror that caught unerringly and
flawlessly the image of the million stars
that shone and twinkled industriously, un-
tiringly, in their velvet setting of indigo,
so that the only movement on the water’s
surface was their twinkling.
The night was immobile, so that on shore
the fronds of the palms that lined the
waterfront were silent, bereft of the breath
that gave them life to whisper softly
amongst themselves. It was as though the
night, breathless in admiration of its own
immensity of beauty, had laid a finger on
the lips of humankind and hushed them
into mute adoring ecstasy.
On sea and land there lay the hush that
catches at the imagination, stabbing it with
a sudden and almost painful comprehension
of the infinite puniness of man. And
Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon., as he
leaned against the rail of the Surf Queen,
his eyes now on the Arethusa, whose lights
showed pale in the glory of the starshine,
and now on the Southern Cross, a blazing
diadem of hope, seemed one with the night,
so silent and so motionless he was.
He had never before known the spell of
the tropics to have been so absolute. An
atmosphere of peace ineffable seemed to
be the very spirit of the hour. There was
no sound, save for the faint mellow tone of
the ocean booming gently on the distant
reef, and which was but a diapason to
emphasise the quiet of the night.
It was a night for dreams. If only they
might come true! If only he could step
on board the Arethusa—go to old George
Campbell and say, “Here I am. I have
decided, after all, to accept your offer.
I’m coming away with you. I’m clearing
out, and to the dickens with my obliga-
tions!”
It would have been so easy, too, in other
circumstances, to have done just that. And
it would have solved the problem so very
satisfactorily—provided a way out from all
his difficulties.
But there was another obligation now!
One greater than all the rest. He must
maintain his independence in the eyes of
Pay. He could never accept a favor from
her father. Even had he had nothing to
conceal, he would still have felt the same
about that. Sonic dajr he would go to her
with open but not empty hands. But to
go as a supplicant for assistance, and to
risk exposing his weakness to them, to her
—better anything than that! Better to
stick it out for ever on the Surf Queen!
Better even the prospect of long lonely
years on Lola-Panga—one could perhaps
find some meed of independence there, even
in the Street of Hideousness. Anything
at all rather than be a supplicant for her
father’s help—and charity!
And yet, once, this opportunity was gone,
where and when might he ibid another one?
It was not, fair to any of them—to Etty,
to Captain' Smith, to Michael Varley, to
himself. It was not fair to any of them to
let things go on as. they were.- He must
make the break; it was.for him to do it;
he must take the decisive step. And the
sooner the better. There was nothing to be
gained by waiting. Every day that he put
it off only made it all the more difficult,
both in prospect and in fact But not
to-night! It was too perfect to be spoiled
by even thoughts of that kind. To-night
he would give himself up to the enjoyment
of the hour. To-morrow, perhaps, some
inspiration would come; some ideaj that
would make things easy for all concerned.
Perhaps to-morrow, in Fay’s company—he
might find enlightenment then. There must
be a way out.
And then the magic of the night took
him once more in its embrace. There was
no need to worry; things were working out
all right; everything was going to be for
the best. To-morrow he would be seeing
Fay again.
It was a quarter of an hour later that
a sudden hiss of escaping steam startled the
silence, and Ernest William Johns, M.A.
Oxon., came back from his world qf roseate
dreams as he stared in dismay at the white
plume that had suddenly decked the funnel
of the Arethusa. He watched it as it hung
in the still air, dissolving slowly as though
loath to leave the beauty of the night. It
carried a message that caused the watcher’s
heart to falter in its rhythmic beating,
and then to race madly, so that with every
pulse that pounded in his ears there rang
the words “She sails to-night! She sails
to-night!” There could be no other explan-
ation. For some reason old Campbell had
changed his mind. And the decision had
been sudden, for there had been no talk
that afternoon of their sailing before the
next day at earliest. And he suddenly
realised it must surely have been his own
words to old Campbell that had caused
the change in plans. The leprosy! Old
Campbell had obviously been scared stiff
by his words. That was just what would
happen, he reflected bitterly—just the sort
of irony that would play its tricks on him.
He had been so anxious to spare Fay the
shock of the sights that the Street of
Hideousness presented that he had deprived
himself of the opportunity of seeing her
again!
He sighed softly.
Like Michael Varley, “the doctor,” he
was learning from life that a gentle resigna-
tion was the wisest and probably the easiest
way in which to meet life and its thou-
sand and one disappointments. He was
gradually getting himself out of the foolish
habit of kicking against the pricks. But, he
suddenly asked himself, was it indeed he
who was doing it? It was only since he
had come to the tropics that this new
spirit—or lack of it—had begun to manifest
itself. It was not perhaps so much his
doing as he had at first thought; it was,
perhaps, that the dolce jar niente of the
tropics was getting him down—-that the
warm caressing air was seeping through his
veins, depriving 'him, like sc/me Subtle,
soothing anaesthetic, of his will to fight;
turning him into a weak, spineless, leisure-
seeker.‘'Was'he" always going on like that
—be always ready to turn along the path
of least resistance rather than fight, rather
than kick against the pricks? Was he ever
going to manage to, pull himself round—to
drag himself* back to the life that he had
left behind?
And then he laughed softly. What about
■the cocaine—he- was winning over that,
wasn’t he? Winning slowly perhaps, but
undeniably winning! No, there was no
lack of spirit in liis refusing to kick against
the pricks; it was only that he was learning
commonsense, learning how best to husband
the little resources of nervous energy that
he had—resources that he would sooner or
later have to drain to the limit when the
time came’ for him to leave off the “snow”
altogether. And that time would come
soon, he promised himself. Since he had
met Fay Campbell the longing for the old
days of respectability and dignity had come
back to him a hundredfold. Her aureole
of golden hair had become a beacon—a
signal fire on the outposts of the Old Life
—and he knew that it would always lure
him, not of itself alone, but of the things
it stood for in his mind: self-respect, the
respect of others, work and success. If
only he could have brought himself to
have accepted' old Campbell’s offer, how
much nearer it would have brought the
Old Life!
He sighed softly, and th'e sigh seemed to
bring an answer from the night.
“Well, why not?” .
It was Varley. Johns had not noticed his
barefooted approach, and he turned, with
a start of surprise, to find the cook’s eyes,
glinting faintly in -the - moonlight, staring
into his.
“Why not what?” _ r , .
’ The - question was perfunctory, a mere
matter, of form. Each realised that ’-the
other knew. Varley’s- hand closed over
Johns’s elbow.
“You do it, Mr.
Johns,” he advised,
neither urgently nor
pleadingly.
“I couldn’t.”
Johns’s voice was
humble and low. It
was not Michael Var-
ley of the stewpans of
the Surf Queen to
whom he was speak-
ing. It was a:fellow-
man who could under-
stand; who could sfce
things from his point
of view; a fellow-man
who had once, like
himself, been a gentleman.
“I couldn’t do it, Varley. The old man
offered me a passage this afternoon, but I
turned it down. I couldn’t take it.” He
turned his face to the other as he went on:
“What would my position be with her?
One doesn’t sue for help from the father of
the girl.”
He broke off there, but Varley nodded
comprehendingly.
“I thought it was like that,” he admitted.
“She’s a lady, too; a thoroughbred. But
the yacht will be in Zandavar in two days’
time, Mr. Johns. I was talking to the
engineer this evening. He was rather
peeved because the boss had decided to sail
to-night—he’d been looking forward to an
evening ashore.” Varley broke off to give
a sharp laugh. “Though I reckon he’d have
changed his mind about that by the time
I’d finished telling him about some of the
lassies! But anyway, Mr. Johns, he told
me for sure that they are going straight to
Zandavar. They’ve got to put in there
for coal. And two days isn’t such a terribly
long time, you know.”
.Johns nodded. “It would be an easy way
out,” he mused aloud. “I wish, now, in
some ways, that I’d taken old Campbell’s
offer.”
“It’s not too late yet,” the doctor pointed
out, but he guessed that the other had
not taken the meaning he was trying to
convey. “It’s not too late yet. She’s not
sailing until midnight.”
Johns brushed his hair back from his fore-
head with a weary gesture.
“But can’t you see”—he shook his head
as though despairing of getting the other
to see his point of view—can’t you see that
I don’t want to do that, no matter how
much I want to get away from here? And
God knows I want that badly enough!” he
added with a laugh that held no humor.
The doctor’s glowing cigar-end cut an
arc of impatience against the drowsing
water below them.
“He needn’t know; neither need she. It’s
only for two days, remember. Surely to
God you can stick it out for that long?”
Again Johns’s face turned towards his
companion. He failed to take the other’s
meaning.
“In one of the lifeboats,” the doctor
elucidated for him. “I’ll give you enough
food and water. Two days isn’t long.' It’s
lucky they’ve decided to go to-night,” he
added indifferently, as though the other’s
decision were immaterial to him, which-
ever way it might be made. “It wouldn’t
be so easy to manage in daylight.”
Across the bows of the Arethusa a sudden
silver arc flashed downwards, as it trailed
for a second behind the shooting meteorite.
Varley waited a moment, as though ex-
pecting to hear the hiss as the shooting
star plunged, as it seemed to do, into the
sleeping ocean.
“They say you always get your wish
with those,” he mused softly. “A man
could write a book on superstitions, couldn’t
he?”
Chapter II.
With back bent and neck craned at an
uncomfortable angle, Johns peered through
a tiny chink where the tarpaulin did not
fit quite snugly to the gunwale of the
lifeboat.
It has been ridiculously simple, he
reflected, this business of stowing away.
There had been no hitch in the arrange-
ments. Everything had happened accord-
ing to schedule—Michael Varley’s schedule.
The doctor had managed things with an
artistry that deserved a better stage than
the galley of the Surf Queen. The theatre
had lost an acquisition, he reflected with a
sudden flash of humor, when Michael
Varley had elected—or been forced to elect
—to peel potatoes and brew coffee for a
livelihood. His brainwave about the supper
party had been masterly. An elegant piece
of applied psychology. If he had not pre-
pared the supper first, success might have
been less assured. But, the supper being
prepared, it had been a foregone conclusion
that old Bluff Smith would agree to the
sending of an invitation to the Arethusa;
and, those on board the Arethusa being
informed in . the invitation that the supper
had been so prepared, it had been an
equally foregone conclusion that they could
not but accept.
And so the coast had been left clear.
A clever fellow, Varley—no one could deny
that, Johns told himself.
He watched, from his uncomfortable posi-
tion, the black shadow, so faint as to be
almost indiscernible; that glided across the
motionless lagoon. He watched it until, a
moment later, it was swallowed up by the
parent shadow of the Surf Queen, and only
a faint halo of phosphorescence showed
where the dinghy, with Varley in it, glided
softly to the rope ladder.
Then even the phosphorescence was gone,
and Johns sank back into a more comfort-
able position. And, so imperceptibly that
he did not notice it, the monotony of the
utter silence and solitude lulled him into
a quiet sleep.
It was the slow throbbing of the engines
that woke him and called him back to a
realisation of his position. He had not
heard the return of the supper party from
the Surf Queen, nor the commands and the
bustle that had preceded the departure of
the Arethusa. It was only as the movement
of the engines pervaded every timber of
the ship that he. became aware that his
journey was beginning.
By the time he wag fully awake, the
Arethusa had picked up the rhythm of the
engines in every bolt and rivet, and she
was gliding, to the accompaniment of the
hundred and one tiny noises that are the
pulses of a ship, over the quiet lagoon.
As realisation came to him, Johns started
up. Now that the time was come, his
courage began to fail him. On the deck
of the Surf Queen, with the cook’s persua-
sive accents to help him, and later in the
dinghy, it had all been such a simple matter.
Simply to '“lie doggo” for two days—and
then begin life anew in Zandavar. But
now, actually set out on the adventure,
doubts began to obtrude themselves into his
consciousness. Had he, after all, merely
removed himself from the frying-pan to the
fire?
Through his spyhole he could see, once
more in his uncomfortable position, the Surf
Queen slipping slowly, but steadily, out of
his line of vision. Her lights were still
burning, and a waving lantern showed
where Etty and her father stood giving the
Arethusa farewell. Did they know that he
was on board? The question was dismissed
almost before it had risen to consciousness.
It was not likely, he told himself, that
Varley had neglected such a simple and
obvious precaution as the invention of some
specious excuse to account for his absence
from the supper, party. Varley was not the
one to spoil anything for lack of foresight.
Varley, he suddenly realised, with a flash
of enlightenment, was clever—devilishly
clever! More subtle—a lot more subtle—
than one should normally expect of a man
in his position.
Varley, of his own confession, was in
love with Etty. It took real devotion for
any man to speak as the cook had spoken
to him only the other night. It wag no
passing ' phase of passion that had un-
loosed .his tongue that night. Michael
Varley had been fighting for the happiness
of the woman he loved. And Varley, in his
own quiet way, had got what he wanted.
His rival, none the less dangerous be-
cause unwilling, was now safely disposed of.
Johns could intuitively see the other’s
reasoning. He, Johns, was safely eliminated.
Once stowed away in the lifeboat, he was
not likely to stir from it. No matter how
greatly he was moved to change his mind
—to return, at all costs, to the Surf Queen
—he would not. For, if he were.to do so.
he would bring discovery on himself. He
might, perhaps, in the urgency of his
nostalgia, have risked the sharks that were
beneath the surface of the still, black
waters; but he would never risk a loss of
prestige—a loss that must inevitably ensue
if he were discovered—in the eyes of the
daughter of old George Campbell. Oh, he
told himself, there was no question about
the cleverness of Michael Varley! The
seigneur of the stewpans of the Surf Queen
could well, in happier circumstances, have
held his own in diplomatic circles!
He sank back on to the boards that were
to be his resting place for the next two
days.
What was the use of watching that waving
lantern on the Surf Queen? He was finished
with the Surf Queen and all that she con-
tained. Perhaps, after all, things were
turning out for the best. Anyway, they
could not be worse than had been the
prospect of staying aboard the trader.
There was that consolation. Even though
he were out of the frying-pan into the fire,
he was willing to wager that, for once, the
fire would prove the less hot of the two!
For, obviously, he could never have brought
himself to marry Etty Smith. Just as
obviously, it would not have been a fair
thing to have stayed on indefinitely, letting
the girl cure him of his craving, while she
lived in a fools’ paradise of hope.
Yes, there was no shadow of a doubt
about the doctor. Michael Varley had
solved the problem for him as he himself
could not have done. He had lighted on
the solution that was the best for all of
them. Best for Etty; best, too, for Michael
Varley; and, he told himself vigorously,
best for Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon
,—provided that the scheme worked out a-
. anticipated. Provided that he managed to
stay concealed until they reached Zandavar.
•and provided that then he could get ashore
unobserved.
But he could not bring himself to think
that Michael Varley, despite his professed
sympathy, had been really much exercised
in his mind about the fate of the stowaway;
so long as the stowaway remained stowed
away until Lola-Panga had been left
behind, Michael Varley would be quite
satisfied. No, there was not a great deal ot
altruism in the idea. It suddenly dawned
on Johns that he was not the first rival
that had disappeared from the Surf Queen.
“Now that Jornsen is gone”—he remem-
bered Varley’s words of the other night.
And he began to wonder just what share


HK
mm
m
m
r
.
:
■
I
'
■
m
■
«
MS
■
tfllm
Iwa^aj
| ? £paj*k tms .
:i hock: J
..
■ 11
■
1
m
h*®:*
M
SBl
8
s*
him imuimwmw im*»vi»
R
■
■
£jf
n
m
Oottf jt.snqf >« if Wine %
PS «/ XSfirfC &‘OW' ' * '«
Mi
tai
lifra J£9tik ot T*
. :
«r
■
hH
IWSiillfllllMlM
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIANMAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Towc
and ' Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price Gd.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury.” Unhurt.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 I'itt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
Dependable!
Ctgai's
\Craig &AITKEN
£»«*.Wholesale Dishibutorj
!) Sydney N.5.W.
f
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. lIINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
c§portin<
NOTES-TIPS-RESUITS.,
YHEAUSTRALASIAH
OH SALE ALL STATES -^-
"THE WOMAN'S MIRROR/'
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to l:now.
IF YOU MUST BE PAID
TO READ THE NEWS..
what of the advertisements?
‘‘The Brisbane Courier” depends for circulation solely on its
wholesome, cleanly-presented news and its vigorous policy in
public questions. Subscribers buy it to read it. As a result its
circulation is the greatest'and most effective in all Queensland.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s leading paper for 84 years.
Representative: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. Thone: 8500
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Varlev might have had in the sequence of
events that night at Townsville. Yes, there
was no doubt that Michael Varley was
clever!
A long blast of the siren called him back
to his peephole, for a last view of the other
ship. The Arethusa was swinging round,
engines at quarter speed, to make the pas-
sage through the narrow channel in the
reel' The Surf Queen was still visible from
where he crouched. If he craned his neck
into a yet more uncomfortable position, he
could see the whole length of her, as she
lay now well astern on the port and
he could see, too, the waving lantern. Then,
his eyes straying towards the fore part, ot
the smaller vessel, which, unlighted was
merely a patch of deeper blackness against
the sleeping waters, he saw a tiny spot
of color, almost less than a pinpoint, and
he knew that Michael Varley was there,
Watching the Arethusa out of the lagoon.
And, as he looked, the pinpoint of color
suddenly brightened, waving and waning
two or three times, and then, for a moment,
it made a slow circle against the darkness.
It was Michael Varley’s adieu to him. A
parting God speed—and good riddance!
Then the Surf Queen was no more, so
far as Johns’s vision was concerned. The
dark outline of the island, peaks upflung in
black silhouette against the stars, slid softly
in a semicircle from him, and he was
once more looking at the Southern Cross.
A white line in the darkness marked the
distant edge of the reef, and, even as it
came in sight, a bell rang in the engine-
room, the throb of the engines increased its
rhythm and the Arethusa breasted forwards,
snuggling herself into the arms of the night
and the sleeping ocean.
Chapter 111.
During the succeeding forty-eight hours
Johns read, half a dozen times, the letter
which he had found in his pocket; Michael
Varley must have slipped it there while
he was helping him into the lifeboat. It
read:
Dear Johnnie, —By the tme you find this
you’ll be well on the way to Zandavar and,
I hope, freedom —you -know what from. I
suppose it isn’t insubordination to call you
“Johnnie” now that you’re not mate of the
Surf Queen. And I want you to forget
that it’s the “doctor” that has written this.
Think of me, instead, as a man who has
had his chance—and has chucked it away
for good. That’s where you’ve got the pull
over me. You can still yet back —you lucky
devil. Cut out the “snow,” Johnnie, as quick
as you can and as hard. It’ll be Hell for a
few weeks, but there’s a good hospital at
Zandavar, and the quacks there are pretty
sure to have had plenty of experience with
“snow fiehds.”
Besides, think what you’ve got as incen-
tive. If I can pull up—as 1 have, to a
mighty large extent! —with Etty as lode-
stone, what can’t you do with that little
looker as guiding angel? Did you ever see
such eyes —or such hair? Don’t think me a
fool, Johnnie, but, by God, you’re a lucky
man! She’s a winner, all the way, and
you’ll get her, old man. Don’t ask me how
I know. I just do. I’ve forgotten the galley
and. the onions for the time being, and
I’m “fey.” Remember that shooting star
we saw this evening? What were you wish-
ing then?
When you get to Zandavar, go to
“Wooden Charlie”—he’s got a saloon near
the quay; anyone will be able to tell you
where to find him—and show him this
letter; or this part of it, anyway. He’ll
let you have anything up to ten quid when
he knows you’re a friend of mine. And
don’t worry about paying him back; old
Bluff owes you about that, so I can collect
it from him to pay Charlie.
Good-bye, old man, and “all the best.’
from Michael Varley.
P.S.: When you write that book you're
always raving about, or used to be when
you were short of “snow,” don’t forget to
give the p.b. “doctor” a mention, will you?
Honorable, if possible! —M.V.
It was that postscript that held Johns’s
attention most often, and for the longest
periods.
That book that he had been going
to write for so long! He had always been
thinking about it. in the days before
Gabriel’s Heaven; even in the days after
he had come aboard the Surf Queen. Once
it had occupied all his waking thoughts—in
the days when there had seemed no road
towards the light, except by writing. Then
it had been a lodestone, the one hope, the
single faith that had helped him to keep
his sanity. He had even had quite a lot
of it forked out in his mind —a provisional
synopsis.
But lately, taken up with hard work and
the routine of regular watches, the idea had
somehow faded in its attractiveness. He
had, he realised, been slipping into that
frame of mind that seems to characterise
those who follow the sea. The peaceful
monotony of routine, as day followed day,
had dulled his ego into a placid acceptance
of things as they are. The future had lost
its terrors, but had lost, at the same time,
its promise. Another example of the tropical
spell, the dolcc far wienie of blue seas and
bluer skies. Perhaps, he reflected more than
once, there was more than just “the
doctor’s” plotting in this trip of his.
Alone in the lifeboat, with only his
thoughts for company, his mind reverted to
the book with renewed interest. It was a
good plot that he had worked out, he
decided; it was a plot that justified a lot
of preliminary thinking out before the
actual writing was commenced. And the
long spell that he had had away from it
would have given his subconscious a chance
to work it out and amplify it still more.
There was no doubt that the subconscious
could do that; could carry on a problem
from the point where the conscious mind
left, off. He had had examples of that with
some of his mathematical problems in his
undergraduate days. Problems whose solu-
tions had evaded him overnight, but which
were there, ready in his mind, when he
woke in the morning. And perhaps, when
he started to write his book, he would
find the same thing happening. The ending,
about which he had been dissatisfied when
last he had thought of it, might suddenly
“come” to him when he started to write.
It was funny the way things worked out.
All rot to talk of predestination, and all
that bunk! For instance, it was the merest
chance that he had gone to Gabriel’s
Heaven that night; a mere coincidence, the
merest fluke, that Captain Smith and Etty
should have chosen that same night to
appear there. And yet—well, it wan
strange, the way things worked out. Look
at him now—a stowaway on board the
Arethusa, with the girl of his dreams not
thirty yards away from him at most, the
two of them sailing for the same port.
Predestination? The Lord alone knew.
It was on the evening following their
departure from Lola-Panga that he heard
Fay’s voice sufficiently close to him to en-
able him to distinguish what she was say-
ing.
She and her father were promenading in
the faint breath of cool air that the dusk
had brought with it. For some time before
they had come near his hiding place he
had heard their footsteps, and the pleasant
pungency of Campbell’s cigar had now and
then found its way into the darkness of
the lifeboat. And, despite the discomfort
of his quarters, and the unrest of body
that was the sign of the lack of cocaine
beginning to make itself felt, he found a
certain grim humor in the situation. It
gave him an odd sense of amusement to
cogitate the fact that, had he chosen, he
might even then have been promenading
with them, a welcome guest, smoking one
of those excellent cigars, and with his
stomach comfortably full of satisfying food
instead of the stale bread and tasteless
water that were even then hanging heavily,
as though loth to undergo the process of
digestion.
And he lay hidden, instead, like a thief
in the night! Predestination again? Per-
haps it was; and yet he could not bring
himself to conceive of a deity who would
take the trouble to relegate him to the
oven-like confines of a closed-in lifeboat!
Surely divine humor would not go to the
length of that—predestining him first to be
a stowaway, the burrow of a skulker from
top of his year at the ’Varsity, and from
there, through no soft degrees, to the lair of
humankind? No, hardly.
He found a certain pleasure in quoting
Shakspeare to himself. Shakspeare, and
then Henley. The sonorous words of “In-
victis” brought him strange comfort, gave
him courage to face the prospect of the
night that was to come. For the close con-
finement and the Spartan-like diet that he
had been forced to endure were taking
rapid toll of his fortitude. It was thirty-
six hours since he had last had a ration
of “snow,” and there were another twenty-
four hours at least to live through before
he could hope to get to Wooden Charlie’s,
whoever Wooden Charlie might be—the
name, at least, was intriguing.
And then, suddenly, his troubles and pri-
vations were forgotten, as the footsteps of
Fay and her father drew nearer to the
lifeboat. They halted almost at his hiding
place and his heart thumped suffocatingly
as he realised that they were speaking of
him.
f To le continued next tccelc.)
Macquarie’s Chair.
Here’s the point whereto of old
Oft I came to sport or stroll.
Ere the world grew drab and old,
And the tollman Time took toll.
Ere the master-worker Change—
Builder and despoiler, too —
Hither came to make all strange
All around, fair dreams I knew.
Change may alter and destroy
What he wills, with ceaseless toil,
Bat the memories of a boy
Lie beyond his power to spoil.
So, a boy once more, I sport.
Light of foot with life athrill,
In the old abandoned fort
That stood guard on yonder hill.
Though a-many moons and .sons
Since those times have shone and soared,
I behold its old-time guns
O’er the harbor keeping ward.
Memory, memory, evergreen ;
Green, in truth, you are to me,
Since again the Wolverine
At her moorings, yon, I see.
Round about her seagulls wheel,
Telling her of windy seas;
Flows the tide beneath her keel,
Floats her flag upon the breeze.
From this point, where soft winds sport
With green leafage, home I hie....
Vale, vale, ship and Fort,
Vale, vale \ days gone by!
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


Thai Robber
CARBO
and ike answer
farbo
Wn
ILL it free your engine from
carbon? CARBO-SOLVE does remove
carbon deposits ... it acts as a power-
ful agent to clean cylinders and valve
seats of carbon incrustations.
More miles per gallon of petrol
■—the engine knock has gone—a
quicker get-a-way—when CARBO-
SOLVE is used to cleanse cylinders
and valves.
ALEMITE CORPORATION ' • Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT* Chicago
Full particulars from IVIR. KENNETH J. G. SIVHTH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W. A.),Ltd., 894 Hay St„Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pine Street, Adelaide
K-Aust 3-32
Winter
Holidays
a t concession rates! 4
EXCURSION FARES
(NO EXCHANGE) 4
SUVA. FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days, Ist Class
Return, £35.
HONOLULU. HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class
Return, £75.
Seven-weeks’ Tour, Cabin Class
Return, £55.
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Twenty-three Days’ Tour, Ist Class Return.
£45.
Via Wellington. N.Z., Cabin Class Return.
£ 34
PAPEETE,' TAHITI.
Via Wellington and Rarotonga, Ist Class
Return, £55.
Seven-weeks’ Tour, Cabin Class Return, £4O.
For full particulars , apply to ■
UNION S. S. CO.. LTD.. '
247 ' George Street. Sydney ;
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
'J3&
Vs
•->
▲
»
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
The Blessed Baby.
HAROLD MERCER IMPORTS MORE OF THE CONFIDEFOES OF MRS,
PARSLEY.
“¥ ’OPE,” remarked my landlady, “that
I the baby belonging to the new people
in No. 17 doesn’t disturb you. As the
Bible says, out of the mouth of baby suck-
lings cometh wisdom at the midnight’s hour;
and then there is weeping and gnashing of
teeth, especially if some' of the lodgers are
wanting to sleep it off. I like the dear little
things meself, an’ a baby’s a sort of sign of
respectability, especially when it has parents :
but lodgings is no place for them.
“As the Pope said (though I’m a Pro-
testant myself, I must say), when he saw
the Saxin children in the Art Gallery, ‘No,
they are not angels, but. their country needs
them.' So 1 always say, no home is replete
without them, and I’m glad when I see
tradesmen advertising ‘Families supplied.’
As the poet said, ‘There is no fireside who
ever did offend it, but has one vacant chair’;
but in my opinion there are too many keep-
ing the chairs vacant. Maybe it’s the gas
stoves have something to do with it.
“I wouldn't have let No. 17 to the couple
if I’d known they had the baby, although
very nice people they are, and him in the
iceworks. which is a very respectable posi-
tion. They didn't bring the baby with them
when they came to see the room. Not that I
blame them; but what a tangled mess we
leave when first we practise to deceive, as
the poet says—not that it takes much prac-
tice with most people. Now all the guests
are complaining of being hep’ awake at
night; and Ilm glad to hear you say you’re
not one of them. It's drink with some of
them; it makes some people crotchetty; now
with you”—— My landlady checked herself
and trailed oh.
“But I remember a time when a baby was
welcomed in this very ’ouse, an’ everybody
seemed to go mad over it. It was a nine-
days' blunder, if ever there was. I never
suspected what was goin’ to ’appen when
I let No. S to Miss Littlejohn. A Grabbled
little woman she was, especially about men.
Born into trouble, she was, as the sparks
fly up and never set the Thames on fire. I
think she felt about men like a man ’oo lived
with me did about food, and once, being hard
up, went six days without it; ’e said the
smell of cookin’ put ’im in a vi’lent rage, an’
e ’ated everybody ’oo ate anything.
“Whatever else Miss Littlejohn was, you
could be sure she was respectable. Mr.
Plum wit. a jolly feller, but rather coarse in
’is jokes, reckoned if Miss Littlejohn* wasn’t
a Miss there was some brave feller in the
world ’oo deserved a bar to ’is V.C. Yet,
one night, Mrs. Johnson, ’oo was in No. 7,
came ’ammering at my door some time in the
mormn’. ‘Mrs. Parsley! Mrs. Parsley!’ she
cries, like the voice in the wilderness, ‘there’s
a baby, and nobody with the poor woman.
Er door’s locked.’
“‘A baby! You’re mad !’ I says, opening
the door an’ starin’ at ’er pale, pantin’ face.
‘Babies don’t appen in this ’ouse without
my consent.’
“ ‘I assure you it’s right,’ she insists.
“’ln what room—who is it?’ I asked.
“ ‘ln No. B—it’s8 —it’s Miss Littlejohn,’ she
says. • - .
ell, you co.uld ’ave knocked me down
with the straw which shows the way the
wind was blowin’. I ’urries upstairs, to
where there’s a little knot of people round
a door in pyjamas an’ dressin’-gowns and
Gawd knows what. Sure enough there’s
a little cry—the cry of a new babe.
_ It did upset me—upset me so at first
I was angry.
“‘Miss Littlejohn!’ I calls out, rattling
the ’andle of the door, ‘ ’Ow dare you do
a thing like this in my ’ouse?’ An’'then I
remembers I’m a. woman meself. ‘You poor
scul, open tlie door an’ let me in,’ I says.
And I was running down for my ’ouse keys
when the doctor from over the road an’ a
nurse with ’im came bustling in.
“ ‘This is Miss Littlejohn’s room, of
course?’ lie says, puttin’ a key in the lock.
M must ask all you good people to move
away; the patient will need to be quiet.
Which is the landlady?’ And then he told
me what to do.
“When I come back with the ’ot water the
nurse took it qt the door. The people ’ad
gone, but not to bed ; they was standin’ round
each other’s doors or in each other’s rooms
talkin’ about it. An’ no wonder! Miss
Littlejohn ! I was all in a fluster meself.
“But the worst shock I got of all is in
the morning when Miss Littlejohn, in a
wrap, an’ lookin’ white as a sheet, I find in
the kitchen makin’ groats. She mumbles
somethin’ about (lie gas in ’or room bein’
crook.
“ ‘You get right back to bed an’ I’ll make
the groats fer you,’ I says. ‘D’ye want to
kill yourself? Fancy gettin’ up an’ about
like this!’
“A rush of red came into ’er face.
“‘Me, Mrs. Parsley?’ she cried, indignant.
Ale?’
“ ‘Well, : I must say I’m surprised,’ I says,
‘but I ain't goin’ to say anythin’ to you, you
pore soul, in your present condition. I dare-
say you re more sinned against than sinnin’.
But now you’ve got to think of the pore little
life you’ve brought into the world.’
“ ’Ow dare you speak to' me like that?’ she
stormed. ‘Me? Don’t be ridiculous! I
found this poor girl in a doorway in the
street below, cryin’ as if ’er ’eart. would
break. I learnt from ’er just ’ow things
were with ’er, an’, although I don’t know
much about these things, I saw there was
not a moment to be lost. So I rushed ’er
up to my room, got ’er into bod, and then
rushed across for the doctor. I first ’anded
’im my key, bein’ too upset to come back
an’ face what was ’appenin’. an’ waited in
fis surgery. - Oh. Mrs. Parsley, the poor girl
is well brought up; but she hasn’t got a 'ome
an she’s been deserted. What beasts men
are!’
"I’m pot one to talk, believin’ that a still
tongue is more precious than a jewel in a
swine’s snout; but before breakfus every-
body in the ’ouse knows the story, an’ Miss
Littlejohn was a sort of hero to them ’oo
adnH liked ’er before.
“It was surprisin’ the way the ’ole ’ouse
took on about that baby. They all know
Miss Littlejohn was pore, an’ they all put
in liberal to pay for the doctor’s expenses
and etcete'ra and etcetera, although the
cheque of Mr. Swift, ’oo everyone thought
was a gentleman, an’ ’oo ’eaded off the sub-
scription with five pounds, was proved dis-
honorable when it went to the bank—Mr.
Swift left next day, an’ paid ’is three weeks’
rent owing with another dishonorable cheque.
Three gentlemen, includin’ Mr. Wo'retley, ’oo
everybody reckoned a ’orrible surly feller,
undertook to pay a week’s rent each for the
room—Miss Littlejohn, ’ad to ’ave another
fer a time—an’ Mr. Plumwit come ’ome that
night as merry as anythink. ’E said ’e ’ad
been wettin’ the baby’s 'cad ; ’e couldn’t ’ave
done it better if it ’ad been ’is own child.
’E brought ’ome seme flowers an’ a box of
chocolates fer the baby an’ its mother: an’
when ’e was told the baby couldn’t eat choco-
lates an’ the. mother wasn’t allowed, ’e gave
it to Miss Littlejohn, if you please!
“Well, the baby was a dear little thing;
an’ so was the mother, pore creature. Never
shall I forget ’ow I felt drawn t 0 ’er, she
a girl ’ardl.v out of ’er teens as she lay there
lookin’ down so proud at the sweet little
thing, an’ ’er eyes filling with tears as she
Thought of ’ow matters stood.
‘Never you mind, dearie,’ I comforts ’er.
‘There’s always a silver cloud before the
dawn, and the ways of improvidence is best,
’owever ’arsh they may seem to the ’uman
eye, which is not inflammable,’ I says. ‘ ’Oo
knows that it may prove all the better that
he didn’t marry you, leavin’ you free to wed
some rich young man ’oo ’as won a Whid-
don.’
“Some’ow it didn’t seem to comfort ’er.
She sobbed; but when I kissed ’er she clung
to me an’ was better. An’ so, though she
didn’t let it out all at once, I learnt bit by
bit that she ’ad met a rich young feller ’oo’d
taken ’er out, an’, finally, very much in love
with ’im r an’ with no mother to guide ’er, as
the poet says, they ’ad gone to live in a little
flat. An’ probably ’e would ’ave married ’er
only ’e thinks that a girl ’oo would do that
might take up as easily with someone else.
As the motter says; ‘Evil beasts are they
as evil think,’ an’ a very good motter, too, it
is. So they ’ave rows an’ ’e flares up an’
leaves ’er.
“ ’Umauity is a strange thing, even if it
stays in a residential that I’ve always kept
respectable, as you know, being a writer,
and writing all about murders an’ things
which I don’t think ought to be printed in
the papers, though I will say I always read
them first. There’s nearly everybody in the
"ouse raisin’ an ’owl about the poor little
mite in No.. 17, which is a sweet little soul
—a regular little, bud from ’Eaven ; an’ yet,
because Enid's. little one was born on the
spot and gave ’em a thrill, everybody in the
’ouse seemed to fancy they ’ad a share in
it. Not that there was any rush to pay
expenses after the first go-off; keepin’ things
goin’ was left to Miss Littlejohn, ’oo went
back to ’er own room an’ shared it with Enid
an’ the baby, an’ looked after them, too, so
as.you’d ’ardly know it was Miss Littlejohn.
“In. spite of being a ’cart bowed down
by weighty woe. you wouldn’t find many girls
brighter than Enid when she got about; a
little inclined to bo ashamed, meeting pebple,
but very proud of ’or baby, an’ quite right,
too. . Even the animals ’ave that instinct;
the ’ymn says ‘Can its mother’s tender care
pease towards the child she-bear?’ No, nor
its lie-bear either!
“Then an old friend of Enid’s turned up;
he d met her taking the baby for an airin’.
’E was a young man, but a bit too staid an’
proper an’ severe for my likin’; an’ I didn’t
think ’c mattered much, until as I was pass-
ing No. 8, which the door of it was ajar.
I ’card somethin’ that made me ’eart jump.
“Then you will be takin’ baby away?’
Miss Littlejohn cried, ’er voice soundin’ like
some strong .swimmer in ’is agony, as the
Bible says.
“ ‘No; understand me,’ says ’is lordship,
pious as a church service on Easter Friday,
‘I loved Enid years ago; and I still love
her. She will go back to her people, and in
six months I will marry ’er. But ’er people
won’t ave the baby ; and I certainly won’t.
Y\ e’ll make an arrangement for its keep.’
“ ‘Oh, ’ow sad for Enid. But I would
look after it for nothing,’ cried Miss Little-
john. An’ then the door closed, I suppose
to ’ide Enid’s sobbing.
“So Miss Littlejohn was left with the
little cherub, an’ it got to be known as Miss
Littlejohn’s baby. She’d go red over that
sometimes; and yet it pleased ’er. It was
queer to see ’er with that babv; she got
some woman near with a famiiv so large
that one more didn’t make no difference to
look after it while. she was at work; but
when she was ’ome it didn’t seem as if any-
thing mattered but the baby. It was a kind
of abscess with *er. as they say.
“So Miss Littlejohn was ’appy until one
day. ’earing ’er sobbin’, I looked in at the
door, an’ there she was sprawled over ’er
sewing-machine where she’d been makin’
things fer the baby, cryin’ as if ’er ’eart
wouni break. There was boxes of lovely
flowers on the floor, an’ a wonderful gold
wristlet watch tumbled out of its case near
them, as if it was thrown down.
She did not love the baby enough to
take it before, and now they want to take
if from me." she says when I speaks to ’er,
and she ’ands me a letter, crumpled in ’er
and. Ihe writing seems to dance; but I
can see it’s a joyful letter telling ’er that
hand is being married that day, an’ now they
will be able to take the baby—’im 'avia'
changed is mind about it —and they were
comm up for it. But they could not forget
the dear lady as ’ad been so very, very kind,
and these— which means the flowers and
presents was a token of their gratitude.
“‘Bot it’s mine! The baby’s mine!’ cried
Miss Littlejohn, starting up like a little roar-
ing lion seeking ’oom it may devour. ‘lt’s
not 80 much as ’im. An’ he Wouldn't
take the baby at first; turned the little soul
down. Men are such beasts! But I’ve
looked after the little mite; I’ve gone with-
out to see that it got all it wanted. I’ll
keep it,’ she says.
"I tried to smooth ’er down, an’ thought
I ad done it; but I didn't know what a
tragerdy it was until Enid came rushin’ up
to me an’ throws ’er arms round my neck,
kissing me. She 'as ‘er 'usband with ’er an'
e seems full of ’appiness. too : but when I
go along with them to No. 8, the door's
open an' all ’er things is packed up, an’
Miss Littlejohn and the baby is gone.
“ ‘I can't bear it. ’aving the baby takeii
from me, a note she 'ad fastened against
the looking-glass explained. ‘I will send for
my things when I can ; but I am not goin’
to let them take my baby, fer it is’ —she
made great big letters of it—‘MlNE.’
“You can guess the hullabulloo then ; Enid
sobbin’ an’ cryin' an’ refusin’ to go; the
police an’ detectives coinin’ in. and them
still awaitin’ there; Enid cryin’ over the
baby s cot, which Miss Littlejohn 'ad
scrimped ’ersclf to git.
“.‘N°, I won't go—l won’t!’ she kept
saym . She may come back—they can bring
us news ’ere if they find ’er.’
“So on they stayed, till late at night,
an me in an’ out to see them, she cryin'
broken-hearted, an ’im lookin' like twopen-
north of misery. Hour after hour strikes-
an as midnight nears we're all quiet, wait-
ing.
"Then the door opens quick, and- Miss
Littlejohn, tlm baby clasped in ’er arms as
if it was the 'oly gruel or somethin’, comes
in. In a minute Enid’s ’usband leans fin-
the door, an’ as it closed be'ind ’er, claspin’
the baby tighter, Miss Littlejohn faces us
all, defiant. ‘I ’ad to come back,’ she says
with a stranglin’ throat. ‘I ’ad no money
and ! walked and walked about, an’l thought
you d ’ave gone. But you can’t ’ave it—
its mine!’
“Then it come to me all of a sudden. ‘Miss
Littlejohn,’ I says, with a quick look at the
other parties, ‘don’t you see this ain't the
man Enid was goin’ ter marry ’oo didn't
want the baby? It's the baby’s father, ’oo
found ’er out an’ ’as married ’er.’
‘‘‘An’, you dear thing,’ says Enid rushing
to or an puttin’ ’er arms round ’er an’ the
baby, too, in spite of ’er shrinkin’ back at
first, ‘ Arry is as grateful to you as I am;
an we want you to come an’ live with us,
t° t be near the baby you love.’
\\ ell. then there was so many ’appy tears
in that room I took mine outside. I don’t
know W it happened, but it was four o’clock
before I got to bed. talkin’ to the lodgers
about ow all things had worked together for
good in the unscrcwable ways of Providence ’’
There was a look of firm resolve in the
eyes of Mrs. Parsley as she finished. Her
narrative had evidently steeled a resolve.
They can ’owl to ’igh ’Eavens as much
as they like, ' she sajd. “but that there baby
in No. 17 is goin’ to stav.’’


■ are you O
Liverish (
Nine out of every ten persons suffer more or less from
Liver Complaint. That feeling of “No energy” and
“Not too well” are but symptoms of a weak and
disordered system. Weak because the whole vitality
is absorbed, inactive kidneys, and constipated bowels.
For not only is the Liver the largest and one of the
most important organs in the human body, but when
deranged it becomes a source of endless suffering.
When the Liver is clogged by the inactivity of the
Kidneys and Bowels it becomes torpid, and fails to filter
the bile from the blood, thus producing Biliousness and
a general impairment of the digestive system.
There is little use of treating the Liver separately, as
it can never be set right until the Kidneys and Bowels
are made active in removing the waste matter from the
blood. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a searching,
cleansing remedy. They put a move in your Bowels, life
into the Liver, and tone the Stomach—thus bracing up
the system generally.
Dr. HORSES
—I
PILL
They Make You Feel Brighter
WORMS
A COMMON COMPLAINT WITH
CHILDREN
HOW TO TREAT THEM
Worms, by their movements and the inter-
ruption they offer to the contents of the
Bowels, generally occasion pain or uneasi-
ness in 'the Abdomen, ..sometimes spasmodic,
sometimes gnawing amd biting, and not in-
frequently of a vague, indescribable chaw
fleeter* and yet very dist ressing. Sympathetic
with this is a sensation of itching at the
Nostrils, producing a disposition to pick the
Nose, which is characteristic of the affection.
The Bowels are often disordered, sometimes
relaxed, as in Dysentery. The appetite is
exceedingly variable, im some cases natural,
in others deficient, craving or depraved, one
condition not infrequenitly alternating with
another. The Abdomen is often hard, swol-
len and tympanctic, the breath heavy and
foetid, and tongue furred, with disagreeable
taste and a copious flow of saliva; swelling
of the upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during the
sleep are other characteristic symptoms. The
effects, however, often extend beyond the
Alimentary Canal, and various derangements
of health are experienced in consequence,
either of the direct irritation of the worms
or of the disordered digestion which they
occasion Amongst the most common of these
are nervous affections, such as ' fretfulness,
irritation of temper, wakefulness or disposi-
tion to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, sud-
den starting out of sleep, as if from fright,
dizziness, spasmodic movements of the eye--
lids, dilated pupils, perverted vision, tem-
porary blindness and deafness. General con-
vulsions are not infrequent in children, and
symptoms strongly resembling “Water on
the Brain" have been ascribed to worms, and
have ceased on their expulsion.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to recog-
nise the fact that their little ones are suffer-
ing intense pain and distress, and are
practically irresponsible for the outbursts of
temper, restlessness and peevishness, and
until some more serious symptoms , appear
nothing is done to alleviate the distress. The
symptoms of'this disease are somewhat vari-
able, but generally they are so characteristic
that no mother need have any doubts. The
best proof of worms is worms, and if the
general conduct of the child is. such as to
give the slightest suspicion, a careful watch
will afford ample proof.
A child who is affected with Thread Worms
will often appear to the eye to be in an
indifferent state of health. It becomes
peevish and irritable in its temper. Another
point to which the attention of mothers
should be specially directed is that the child
is apt to start in its sleep, its repose being
in the way of a disturbed nature.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
a purely vegetable medicinal preparation,
compounded on a scientific principle for the
•eradication of Worms which infest the intes-
tines. They contain specific properties which
destroy the worms but cause no injury to the
Stomach or Bowels, and do not weaken tlic
system. The pellets are prepared in the
form of a confection or lolly, have no dis-
agreeable taste or smell; but, mi the con-
trary. inspire children to take them as they
would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or
direct from the AY. 11. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street. Church Hill, Sydney. Price,
4/- per packet (ti packets, 23/- post free).
If writing, please mention The Bulletin.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin’
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose &
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia —12 months, 24/?; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/«
Overseas —12 months, 30/*; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/«
f-
v*.:
T>
0°
e
1 ’
t\G 1
(fV* ~e
»
s 6
6®
v v£'>'' #
,
f n
#•
& O
V> A l* 0<
oMV*


/ft
Si!
r 7 S
-
tm
5 • ■« ■
ft-ft;
.
m
m
V
&K 3
ft. ft
p : ft
4
?*
X
'■■ *» -*
.
.. ; ft ft- ftft
f
.4
* *
ft.—;..
To hear " You’ll have a gj
nie Walker before
?” makes a strange)
halfway on the road to
ship. Better still, remini
friends that each likes the
other well.
of
ou
feel
'dJ - ‘
-
8
Born 1820—still going strong
Johnnie Walker is ail pure Scotch. Bottled in Bond uncbr Supervision of the Commonwealth Customs.
