

mmmm
: .. t- 1 v wiiniiMPi
f>-f
ff
am
\
• 1
fc- m
IB
f'f
>
&
y
•> C
■
■■■■ :
4*
-. ■
•v.:- : s-
f
5 -
■■ ■ *1
H
■*v--
IIP#
K; . ■
Ya ■'■
: ff
SfilS
>
::
W. m ■
■
\.|
; v, j
■ f -:f :;;:■■>■ . •
\
- ■.:■■■.
:
mi
■ : ;•:■ :•: •
f»
■ ■'. ■-■ ■
■• f/fvf
Hfe
■
:fY ,:,:
■■ Yf§
■ :•; V
f ; f
3|?f M,*
. ; " . ■
“Heres tae us! Whas like us'!
SCOTCH WHISKY
TheBullin
WiM -UajL&vJa**' ?-(PaxjQy 8
Vol. 53.—N0. 2726.
Wednesday, May 11, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


QUR Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
W with full terms and particulars, post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
uni
LiUxig
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON! ;
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. v
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S,B. 332
Soon ~ the calm
of the lagoon
wM'm
ui I
m
m
<y"\. v
am
ii
PL.ll S SB
S@«SWS
m
Ha Jam
'.L-SsMd."Qsmi&r. %•
ss^iSf;
and the placid
stillness of sun-
enchanted South
Sea Isles.
RAROTONGA and Papeete, with their languid tropical appeal,
never fail to charm their visitors. Within easy reach of Sydney
by modern trans-Pacific liners, their fresh, unspoiled loveliness makes
them ideally suitable for those seeking to escape the crowded
thoroughfares.
HOLIDAY EXCURSIONS AT REDUCED RATES!
NO EXCHANGE. ,‘
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney,
Telephone: 87671.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: Central 8393.
LINE.
SEAL OP GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTLI
m
lo
ad.
Wr
S*i>
CELESTfNS is thi
MAME Off THE SPRING
etat means
"STATE " viz
OWNED OY THE
STATE OF FRANCE
BOTTLED & GUARANTEED
PURE DV THE TRENCH
gOVERNMENT
sfasd
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
ticity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters.is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
'She following statement defies contradiction f
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
hut, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY'WATER, what you mean
to have and whar you should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by th®
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout,
ism, uric gravel and all liver and kidney
complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs restaurants*
chemists and stores throughout the .vorld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER.,
Examine the facsimile opposite artefrefuse substitutes.
Agents for Australia: MAURICE PELLETIER, 16
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS
Messrs. Curcier Arict- & Co. Ptv..
Ltd., 119 Williarh St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
.Bridge Street, Sydney, S a.W.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.
Bazaar Tprrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd.,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
II mini i
ticuta
jluticura
V> OINTMENT
EOICINAL
o»>C>
Travellersl
Should Always Carry
Cutienra
Preparations
The Soap to thoroughly
cleanse the skin, the
Ointment to heal any
pimples or rashes, the
Talcum to refresh and
cool.
Soap'ls. Ointment Is. and 2s. Tal-
cum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
"THE AGE”
Established 185 4-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in • news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,"
which others have found to be, productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise*
merits annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Coliins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
If
any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for 1
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Small Canvases
Universal education is having its effect,
and England is producing more and more
young writers—nearly all of them novelists.
But the majority have had only a limited
experience of life. A few, like the Waughs,
are lucky enough to travel and observe
many social circles while they are young,
and their works gain in spaciousness accord-
ingly) but the others have to make the
best they can of very small worlds. Pro-
ducts of Board Schools and Grammar
Schools end, as a rule, or at best remain
stationary for years where the wealthier
young people begin. It accounts for the
hundreds of clever stories that have
appeared lately by authors who call to mind
the people who write chapters of the Bible
on postage stamps. Here are three novels
with postage-stamp backgrounds. One is
about 24 hours in the lives of members of
a small social circle in a cheapish part
of London; another deals with the las;
24 hours of a dull suburbanite’s life; th
third describes the events that led up t
and followed an auction sale. Not muci
material there, it might be thought, fo
exciting revelations of the secret passion
that bring misery and happiness to huma
beings; yet most of the characters are s
well drawn that the reader is made t
understand them as if their book-lives hac
been years instead of hours.
The action of A Day’s Tale, by Lewis
Gibbs (Dent; 7s. 6d.), revolves round a
big day school. The earth spinning from
west to east has .iust presented fog-bound
London to the ejm of the sun
To a hovering' immortal, London would have
seemed a mere smudge, such as the immortal him-
self might have made with a dirty thumb; and
under the heavy blackness people slept on, the last,
coldest, dreariest watch of the night prolonged for
them horribly, so that they stirred and muttered in
the grip of their pale dreams, and no cheerful
wink of morning released them. Against this veil
of suspended dirt the sun had no power to speak
of. He recoiled from it; flowed round it, over it,
and chased the rear of night victoriously across the
entire island while the capital still held out in
sidlen defiance.
There is the keynote of the book, the un-
utterable gloom of that awful day. You
see the Cromptons and the.ir son Ron, agec
13, reluctantly struggling out of bed. The
boy and his father are given breakfast
and pushed off—one to school, the other to
the Underground—and the spotlight
turned on Ron’s headmaster. The head-
master, outwardly complacent, is ravaged
by petty sorrows; he dislikes his wife, has
a dental plate with five artificial teeth, and
is going bald. He is surrounded by men
and women with problems as depressing
as his own, or more so. The school out-
fitter suspects he has The masters
all have their private griefs;"'Mr. Neal, the
classics master, owes money and is being
treated badly by a woman. The moving
sun gleams palely through the office window
of Mr. Crompton, who has just kissed his
plain typist, to her half-gratified astonish-
ment and his disgust. Meanwhile, Ron is
grappling with the worries of an idle school-
boy’s life; the headmaster has decided to
sack Mr. Neal, and the girl whom Mr. Neal
loves has decided to drop him; the out-
fitter is still speculating drearily as to
whether or no it is cancer, and Mrs. Cromp-
ton has been kissed by a man who once
gave her a thrill at a holiday resort. She
doesn’t want him any more than her hus-
band wants the typist, and the incident
ends with the kiss. Now the sun’s eye is
leaving England. The rain pours down.
Ron goes reluctantly to bed. Mr. Neal
shoots himself. The outfitter has a spasm
of agony in a cinema which convinces him
that it is cancer. The Cromptons experi-
ence a'few passionate moments while Mrs.
Elliot, who lives opposite, is forgetting “in
an hour of overmastering sleep that her
husband will never wake again.”
He was lying, with his face turned immovably
towards the ceiling, in the bed which she used to
share with him.
Suburbia
Oliver Stonor’s The End of Mr. David-
son (Heinemann; 7s. 6d.) examines the
same kind of people and the same kind of
day. They live in exasperated discomfort;
suffer from corns, chilblains, colds and indi-
gestion; crawl shiveringly out of bed in
the morning and, after washing sketchily,
rush off to jobs which they hate. They are
fairly moral on the sexual side; there is
no place for scarlet sin in their damp, tired
existences. The sooty rain pours down as
they scurry to the
Underground,
drenches the streets
outside their offices,
and chases them
home at night.
Mr. Davidson, a
quantity surveyor, arrives in the city on
what is to be the last day of his life. He
is m a bad temper; he usually is, espeei-
aliy at home, where he is always ready to
nnd fault and domineer. His only son,
Arthur, hates him for it. A common type of
r Pest, who is often the product
• , ■!• ea kh, blames the cooking for his
inability to digest the food, sees slights
where none were intended, and reacts on
disconcerting lines:—denouncing his familv
dashing in despair from his home, and so
on Mr. Davidson is like that. On the
last night of his life the fish is unsatisfac-
tory. He rushes distractedly to a near-by
pub, drinks too much and comes home to
find a light out.
t n ning v, t !i' ligh , t out was an act of rebellion,
y well, rebellions had to be met with action.
There were other beds ; that' was the kev. There
were other beds. He’d show her he wasn’t the sort of
™ an she could insult gratuitously. He’d find some
ptner bed.
But where? To stay at one of the local
hotels would set tongues wagging. He has
his season ticket, so he goes to London with
vague ideas of a night of infamy. The
description of his arrival at Waterloo with
the hand of death on him; of his encounter
with a couple of confidence men who rob
him ; of his terrifying night in a hotel bed-
room, and of his death from heart failure
m the street, as he is struggling blindly
towards his office in the early morning, is
a fine piece of imaginative, though bleakly
unsympathetic, writing. Mr. Stonor knows
his futile little suburbanite well. However,
the most clearly seen person in this book’,
as m the other, i s the Schoolboy. Both
writers were probably schoolboys them-
selves a few years ago.
In a Country Town
Geoffrey Dennis’s Sale by Auction
(Heinemann; 7s. 6d.) is a better and
maturer book than either of the others.
Cecil Cass, chemist’s assistant in Hap-
caster, like Mr. Davidson, is facing the
last day of his life when the story begins.
He shoots himself a few hours later, having
been found out in an intrigue with his
employer’s wife. His widow is a girl who,
just before marrying him, inherited the
Red House and its desirable furniture. The
theme is the sale of the house and its con-
tents; the way the townsfolk took Cecil’s
suicide, and the scheming that went on
amongst them to get the utmost possible
pleasure and profit from the tragedy. Para-
dine Fanshawe-Fowle, the auctioneer, is the
central figure. He is a notable creation, a
fantastic: of Dickensian stature; the rest
seem insignificant beside him. He swindles
everybody in an eloquent and dignified
manner, gets all he wants without being
found out, and ends by marrying the some-
what woolly-witted who is own
sister to Thackeray’s tender-hearted Amelia.
Mr. Dennis has a scintillating style, which
-crackles with malicious humor and a deep
knowledge of his subject, which is the auc-
tioneering business. The defects of his book
are that the characters too closely resemble
people we have met in other books, and
that it asks us to believe that people who
lived nearly half a century ago talked like
this It—
“We have a lot to do and think about.”
Quite,” agreed Miss Hyssop, meaningfully, edgin-r
towards the door. 00
. “I mean, to see how best we can help the poor
gin at this terrible moment.”
“Quite,” agreed Miss Hyssop, more meaning-
fully, edging still nearer the door.
But the atmosphere is so completely 1932
throughout that the reader soon forgets
that the events are supposed to ha re
occurred in 1885.
RED PAGE
A Queensland Crusader
The small proportion of their own
countrymen cognisant of the part played
m the Great War by those Australian and
Maoriland troops wdio rode under Chauvel
thiough Sinai - and Palestine, after fighting
in the Gallipoli trenches, will welcome The
Desert Column, by lon L. Idriess (Angus
and Robertson; 65.). Idriess served on
Gallipoli and in the mounted campaign
later with the sth Light Horse, a Queens-
land regiment of the Second Brigade of the
Anzac Mounted Division, the latter includ-
ing, in addition to the First and Second
Australian Brigades, a brigade of ML
Mounted Rifles.
There have been very few books dealing
with the work of the Light Horse in what
has been called the last of' the Crusades.
There certainly have, been none like this,
written from the inside and, to all intents
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING:’—PIain Facts,. Open Dealing.
THE SENIOR STORE’
CXS
S-3
Work Boots at Cut Prices!
fsd
13/9 Box Hide Boots 11/6
Men’s Work Boots. Made of stout box hide. Standard
screwed soles. Watertight or loose tongues. All
sizes. Price, pair • • 13/9
\nthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price, pair . . 11/6
19/11 Derby Lace Boots 1611
Men’s Box Derby Lace Boots. In Tan or Black. No
toecaps; extra stout sewn and standard screwed soles.
A neat boot for hard wear 19/11
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price, pair . . 16/11
Rubber Dairy Boots 12/9
Dairy Short Rubber Lace Boots. Made of all rubber
and guaranteed waterproof. Ideal for all wet work.
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price, pair, 12/9
35/- Knee Boots at 28/6
Rubber Knee Boots. Best grade-—Canadian make.
Sizes 6,7, II only. Buy now and save consider-
ably. Price, pair 35/-
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price, pair, 28/6
(Men's Footiuear—Ground Floor —George St. We pay carriage .)
sdf
Anthony Horderns'
’Phone: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT Pitt, Goulburn and George Streets, Sydney Postal Address: Box 2712 c, G.P.O.
YOUR CHANCE TO SAVE POUNDS ON
o/
m
m
: W
II- Troughs at
A Special purchase!
Earthenware Poultry
Troughs. Size IS x 0 in.,
with hole in bottom.
5 1-
Suitable tor a Ball Cock.
Seconds. Price
Anthony Honderns’ Autumn
Sale Price ■•••
7/-
5/ :
28/6 Hatchers
now 27/6 ea.
The “Reliable” Hatcher. Made
specially to hatch a small quantity
of chicks. Machine is designed of
metal, is safe and reliable, and has
been tested with satisfactory results.
A thermometer of best quality is
sent with each one. Made in two
sizes. ,
25-egg capacity, each -»/*»
Sale Price »7/0
50-egg capacity, each oZ/b
Sale Price •••
NOTE. —These machines will not
work in a shed or other draughty
places.
£lO Green Bone
Cutter now £8
We recommend this hand-power
Humphrey Green Bone Cutter foi'
flocks of 10 to 200 hens. It has a.
large open hopper, ready for large
bones at any time. Powerfully
backgeared; heavy balance of wheel;
four heavy corrugated knives, . oil-
tempered. Bolts furnished with
check nuts to prevent knives from
loosening. Tail nut on top'enables
removal of wing, exposing all work-
ing parts instantly without use of
wrench. Price, each .......... £io
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale
Price
Genuine American
INCUBATORS
LIMITED STOCKS ONLY
AT THESE PRICES.
ORDER NOW
TO AVOID
DISAPPOINTMENT.
1930 “PETALUMA
HOT-WATER MODELS.
4 only. 135-egg capacity.
Price, £l4/12/6. Sale . .
3 only. 224-egg capacity.
Price, £2O. Sale .
1 only. 448-egg capacity.
Price, £34. Sale
HOT-AIR MODELS.
1 only. 202-egg capacity.
Price, £l9/7/6. Sale ....
1 only. 404-egg capacity.
Price, £32/10/-. Sale ....
£l3
00
00 o
T— OO
C 4?
i— CO
ej ctS
'•TO 'TO
CYPHER’S INCUBATORS
1 only. 240-egg. Local
make. Price, £l9. Sale . .
1 only. 240-egg capacity.
Price, £25. Sale
2 only. 390-egg capacity.
Price, £3O. Sale
£l6
£2l
£25
SCHWALFE-SMITH CO.’S
“FOUR-IN-ONE.”
1 only. 800-egg capacity.
Price £6O. Sale
£5O
(Department—Fourth Floor. ■ Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O,


Left—As Ihough a gigantic knife had sliced
it in twain! The famous Half Dome in the
Yosemite Valley of California.
•
Below—The Olympic Stadium at Los Ange-
les, in which 105,000 persons will witness
the principal events of the Tenth Olympiad.
m
Si
X,4
m
......
O nee
in a generation
ike Olympic Qames in AMERICA
The renowned Ferry Building, landmark 'of San
Francisco, whose tower welcomes ships steaming
into the Golden Gate.
ALWAYS a sportsman’s para-
dise, America in 1932 is the
Mecca of the sporting world!
With the Tenth Olympiad at
Los Angeles and other inter-
national competitions being
held throughout the land, here
is an opportunity both rich and
rare! For the Olympic Games
are not likely to occur in Amer-
ica again within the span of
persons now alive!
Thus California, starred by her
glittering Olympic pageant, is
a fitting introduction to a great
continent, of endless charm
and interest to the visitor!
A vast continent whose sport
centers, great cities and mani-
fold scenic marvels are linked
by superb railway systems
providing every comfort known
to modern travel! Delicious
meals, luxurious club cars, valet
service, magnificent Pullman
sleepers! Frequent and rapid
trains, prompt arrivals, and
stopover privileges allow you
to see so much—and the cost is
surprisingly low!
Swift Matson liners take you
to San Francisco with stops at
New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa and
Hawaii. The fleet is headed by
the new “Mariposa” and the
“Monterey” whose express
service makes this the shortest
route to England! May we send
you our illustrated booklet and
explain how every detail of
your trip all the way to Eng-
land may be completed before
you leave.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION BUREAU
12 Bridge St. Sydney Tel. B 7981-3
mss
R5-1A
BIG ADVERTISERS use
this great paper 0... exclusively
The Brisbane “Courier” is read in every corner of Queensland:
read for its authentic news, its authoritative articles, and for its
sound guidance on all public questions. Big advertisers know this:
they invariably use the Brisbane “Courier”—sometimes ex-
clusively. In 1931 the ‘‘Courier” carried at least 160,000 inches
more advertising than its morning rival: it carried almost as
much as two other Brisbane dailies together. Be guided by those
FACTS largest circulation—widest coverage in city and country.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s Leading Daily Newspaper—Established 1846.
Representative: ROBERT D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. (B 5007.)
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon J4MES \SHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.


MX A LIU MS
PERFEC TV ON
SCOTS WML SKY
*n<J
(T)
0
2rt
FSraw
€C )lf4UUl<9 H
ESTABLISHED 1 807.
this fine old Scots Whisky
has 120 years'reputation for
outstanding quality. It skil-
fully blended for mellowness
and flavour and no better
whisky can be produced.
D.UM'CALLUMI™
EDINBURGH
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LT D.. Sydney. Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
BARTLAMS LTD., Townsville. NORTHERN AUSTRALIAN BREWERIES. LTD.,
MACFARLANE BROS, k CO., Hobart.
Claims.
CO
3E
88S
I
K-
Although many people b’ame
weariness of body on to overwork
or long hours, usually the real
cause is the accumulation of
poisons in the blood due to un-
suspected constipation. Nature is warning
you that your system is not completely rid-
ding itself of its daily waste. Do not allow
constipation to rob you of that vigour which
means real health* Take a sparkling glass of
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” every morning, and keep
your system thoroughly free from the stag-
nating poisons that so quickly sap your
vitality. Buy a bottle of Eno today.
c (s>he words Gno and "‘SFrutt Salt” are registered trade marks.
Sales cPigents : *-s he &British fKarold 3. OUtchic & Go. i£td. Sydney.
Au 7
ENOS FRUIT SALT
and purposes, compiled, page by page,
during the actual progress of the cam-
paigns. Idriess’s method was to jot down
each day’s happenings in tiny diaries, of
which he accumulated a number during his
three years of service. He found in the
pestiferous trenches of Gallipoli and on
the fiery sands of Sinai, and occasionally
between whiles in hospital, that the work
took his mind off less pleasant matters and
acted as a mental tonic. His sense of
observation is singularly acute, and his
deductions shrewd, though, as Sir Hany
Chauvel says in his introduction to the
book, “the Light Horseman was generally
very quick at summing up a situation for
himself.”
In this book for soldiers Idriess has pre-
sented a vital picture of the life of himself
and his friends at war—quite as good in
some respects as that best of all front-line
war books, J. H. M. Abbott’s “Tommy
Cornstalk.” The grim, dry humor of the
Australian Digger furnishes the motif for
the story, but here and there are passages
of horrid realism, not excelled by Remarque
and other exploiters of war horrors. Take
this, written in the gloomy, roofed-in
trenches on Lone Pine, parados and para-
pet built up of Turkish and Australian
corpses with mud for mortar, and the Tur-
kish sap only 15 feet away:—
Of all the bastards of places this is the greatest
bastard in the world—-a dead man’s boot in the
parapet has been dropping grease on my overcoat,
and that coat will stink for ever.
Lacking in refinement, doubtless, but most
of us who have gone to the wars have seen
such things and heard such comment.
From the charnel-house of Gallipoli to
the seven-times-heated furnace of Sinai and
its Beelzebub legion of flies was just
changing one variety of Hell for another,
but throughout it all Idriess contrived
to keep his sense of humor and to main-
tain the keenest interest in the life about
him. He found that, in addition to the
three obsessions of the trench soldier, food,
sleep and lice, he had acquired a fourth—
the care and welfare of his indispensable
horse in a desert where water was almost
as' scarce as gold and sometimes far more
precious. Like all his kind, he never tires
of praising the endurance and stamina of
the incomparable Waters.
Step by step the story takes the reader
across the desert, with its night marches
and fighting in the flaying heat of the day,
from the great repulse of the Turkish Army
at Romani to the pursuit, which only ended
when the invader, driven far into Pales-
tine, turned at last to bay behind the for-
midable fortified Gaza system, with its
entrenched and redoubted lines stretching
from the Mediterranean to Beersheba, in
the waterless desert far inland.
The three bloody engagements of Gaza,
the last of which ended with the turning
of the Beersheba flank by men and horses
who had been 70 hours without water, and
was the beginning of the Turkish debacle
which closed at Damascus, give the author
material which he has welded into an
arresting whole. The frontal attacks on
the strongly-fortified positions were made
perforce across a sloping, open glacis of
bare earth, and the losses, both of British
infantry and Australian and British
mounted men fighting on foot, were ter-
rible. The story of the final triumph, with
its months of careful preparation and the
creation of a water supply for thousands of
men and horses on the Beersheba flank,
where the Turks were confident no mounted
troops could ever penetrate, ends on the
triumphant note of the final, mad gallop
of the Fourth Light Horse Brigade on the
trenches and the routing of their defenders.
The Anzac Mounted Division had wrested
the flanking hill of El Saba from the enemy,
and at sunset Idriess saw below him the
open plain and the Turkish entrenched flank.
Someone shouted, pointing through the sunset
At :i steady trot, squadron after squadron, regiment
after regiment. . . . All the Turkish guns' in Beersheba
must have been directed on the menace.... A mile
distant, their thousand hooves were stuttering thunder
.... then the shells were bursting behind them....
The gunners could not keep the range. . . . We heard
the shouts as the men jumped down into, the trenches
.... A following regiment followed over and galloped
down into the town.... Then, a whirlwind of move-
ment all over the field, galloping, batteries, dense
dust from the mounted regiments, a rush as the
converging troops poured for the opening in the
gathering dusk —Beersheba had fallen.
That is alive, and though Idriess served
with his regiment until wounded at Jaffa
and invalided to Australia, we may leave
him there with his mates, scrambling to
the saddle with the rest of the Division
and pelting headlong down the hill in the
semi-darkness to be in at the death.
A Boon to the Bar
The Laws of the Commonwealth of
Australia (1901-31). by B. J. McGrath and
G. J. O’Sullivan, Barristers-at-law, of
Sydney, has long been overdue. It is 21
years since the Commonwealth laws were
consolidated by the present Federal Solici-
tor-General, and a vast mass of legislation,
much of it of the first importance, has
been passed and legislated on since then.
This Work must be a record in the way of
up-to-dateness. It contains the Statute of
Westminster, which only received the Royal
Assent last December, and the Rules of the
High Court, amended to date and accom-
panied by an appendix (Forms of Pro-
ceedings) and schedule of fees and costs.
At present a barrister’s library contains
45 volumes of Commonwealth law reports.
Say he wants to find a section in the Bank-
ruptcy Act, which became law in 1924 and
has been amended five times since. He
might have to wade through the whole
of the five annual volumes before getting
at what he is after. “The Law y s of the
Commonwealth of Australia” give him the
Act, and its amendments, in their chrono-
logical order, with the cases arising there-
from. Section 51 of the Constitution has
been responsible for more cases of historical
importance than all the others put together.
They are all here—eight solid pages of
them—each in its year and place. Turn to
some old friend like Rex v. Barger, and,
having noted the volume and page.- turn
to the C.L.R.; the process of discovering
what was decided in that matter should
not take more than five minutes.
Each barrister in each State probably has
his own State reports, but fevy have the
Supreme Court reports of even one other
State, and it is safe to' say that no one
has the reports of all the States. AN. S.
Wales barrister may have a case on a sec-
tion about which no decision has been given
in his own State. This book tells him, if
he didn’t know it before, that there has been
a decision in another State, and the year,
volume and page. He goes to his Supreme
Court library, and finds what he wants in a
minute or so, instead of getting hold of
Digests, and starting a search that may
take hours. These are only a few of the
more obvious advantages of this admirable
publication. It is an.all-Australian job, in
three volumes, which contain a photograph
of Isaacs, ex-C.J., as a frontispiece, and
2700 octavo pages on mill-finished book
paper bound in legal buckram. The Law
Book Co. of Australasia are the publishers,
and the price, for a limited period, is nine
guineas.
LEX.
A Satchel of Books
Agatha Christie’s Peril at End House
(Collins; 7s. 6d.) is worked out with all the
ingenuity of this mistress of detective fiction.
The mystery introduces us on a speck-
less morning to the charms of Cornwall
and a bullet fired by an unknown hand
across a hotel garden. Fortunately Poirot
is on the spot. The story is based on his
endeavor to save the life of bright-eyed
Nick Buckley.
Edmond Samuels has had unusual luck
for a versifier with Queer Crossroads; it
has gone into a second edition. The book.
which has been admirably printed and bound
by the Central Press, Sydney, contains the
writer’s cheery philosophy of life as well
as the outpourings of his facile muse. Here
is a lesson the slump has taught him:—
Those who have lost financially have gained
spiritually. They are poorer in pocket, hut richer
ir, toleration, sympathy and good fellowship. They
may have even improved in manners.
The decorations by J. N. Kilgour arc a
feature of a creditable local production.
The Goldfish in the Home, by T. C. Rough-
ley (N. S. Wales Government Printer, Syd-
ney ; Is.), answers every conceivable question
that might be asked by the enthusiast, who,
having acquired a covey of goldfish, yearns
for inside information as to how to keep bis
new acquisitions hale and hearty. Nothing
regarding the fundamental principles of
aquarium management is kept secret in this
book, and it is well written and illustrated.
“Answers to Correspondents,” Page 23.
And a Litle Verse
PREDECESSORS. *
Envy goes groping for the kisses
others have had of your mouth's red;
gropes in morass, and thereby misses
these, flowerlike, which have sprung
instead —
these which arc ageless and not vexed
by ancient jealousy, old grime,
but span this instant and the next,
trembling upon the edge of time....
hawks hung in the wind above that verge
where all falls bottomless and is nought,
whence the to-morrows shall emerge
which yet arc cloudy and unwrought.
Poised at time’s focus on strong wings,
like birds turned sharply into the gust
your kisses have linked me to wise things
saner than envy or distrust:
Space for this moment is not more
than a swollen raindrop, which could burst
here at my lips and spill its store
of riches on my clamoring thirst;
and now, holding its breath, reveals
how each new summer like saved wine
treasures old summers, and conceals
springs yet ungathered, and all mine.
So when I clasp you here I keep
all that dead lovers have desired,
waken their bodies from long sleep
and their dreams, changeless and untired.
Held thus, you become drawn breath of any
who have been loved—once named, once
known;
and the brief lives of that white many
you hand on, deathless and your own.
There is only this embrace at last
anywhere; others touched you once,
but I touch all the present and past
and the wide sky’s uncounted suns.
FIJI.
ROBERT D. FITZ GERALD.


sdf
sdf
mm
„ ...
v " f/.
iMs
:
w
m.
/
m
.
r- s 'w
m
1
K
R
OibPaii
>
\
Ml
■ ■
«iiBlll
y
■
v
m 1
II
«***«*
:
v*.
£
W\\ . 5 'J
>'


The Bulletin
A T ol. 53. —No. 2729.
May 11, 1932.
AS IN THE DAYS OF OLD.
“It is the duty of the people, not of the Governor, to find a way out of the present trouble.” —Sir Philip Game at Narromine.
“Pilate took water, and washed his hands before the multitude, saying ‘I am innocent. . . .see YE to it.'” Matthew xxvii, 24


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victouia: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westkalia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: J 2 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
O' months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage bn this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for \oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
THE KING’S REPRESENTATIVE
AND REVOLUTION.
For over a year we have been anxiously
waiting for Sir Philip Game, Governor
of N. S. Wales, to do something. Mr.
Lang reached office 18 months ago on an
appeal to the country. Both leaders —Mr.
Bavin and Mr. Lang—had put their poli-
cies clearly and unmistakably before the
people. Among other things, Mr. Lang
had declared that his party would have
nothing to do with repudiation in any
shape. He was against socialisation, too;
he held to his previous announcement that
'‘no sane man would be so idiotic as to
tiy and introduce socialisation,” which, he
added, “can only be achieved by force and
confiscation, and Labor stands for neither.”
Within four months the friends of the
Soviet had disclosed their hands, and Mr.
Lang’s policy had become one of frank
socialisation and repudiation. The revolu-
tion, he announced, was not merely coming,
it was here; and he produced a plan with
repudiation as the first step. After that
he waited a while for the Governor to
speak; and all that the Governor said was
“Yes, Mr. Lang.” Thus emboldened Mr.
Lang took the next step. He did repudi-
ate; interest fell due on a loan made to
us by Britain—made, incidentally, for the
purpose of carrying out the Labor pro-
gramme—and he deliberately left it un-
paid. He did more: satisfied apparently
that Sir Philip Game would make no pro-
test, no matter what his Ministers might
do or leave undone, the Government pro-
vided interest due in America while default-
ing on the interest due in Britain.
Evidently Mr. Lang had taken Sir Philip’s
measure quite accurately; at any rate, if
any protest came from his Excellency no
mention of it was ever made.
Upon that foundation of trust in his
Excellency’s amiability Mr. Lang pro-
ceeded with the revolution of whose begin-
nings he had made so proud a boast at
the Eight Hour celebrations in Sydney.
He pushed repudiation farther, leaving his
domestic interest-debts unpaid. By this
time the Commonwealth had become em-
broiled. Being responsible to the creditors
it paid certain debts; and, since Mr. Lang
would not reimburse the Commonwealth,
the latter passed a law authorising it to
take over certain State revenues. Asked
by the Lang Government to pronounce
upon this law, the High Court declared it
constitutional. Mr. Lang’s answer was to
defy the law and to use force and promise
to use more of it in maintaining thisi posi-
tion. Up to that point he had not defied
any written law of the land. Now Min-
isters not only openly defied the law but
approved of measures to challenge with
violence any attempt which the Common-
wealth might make to carry the law into
effect.
Thus far the patience of N. S. Wales with
Sir Philip Game had been almost unruffled.
Indeed, there was a certain amount of sym-
pathy with him in what was regarded as
an awkward and difficult situation. It was,
in fact, neither awkward nor difficult. No
doubt Sir Philip had permitted himself to
be greatly deceived about his job. He had
been told, it seems, by quite unauthorised
people, that there was really nothing to do
but open bazaars and such like—that what
N. S. Wales was really prepared to pay
for was an air-marshal’s uniform. His
Excellency is not, however, the first person
to be deceived about a job which somebody
or other has been anxious to get filled. For
over 12 months past The Bulletin has
been trying to show his Excellency that the
Governor of an Australian State, though
his powers have been greatly circumscribed,
still has one important constitutional duty
to perform. Democratic government has
gradually displaced every other form of gov-
ernment in these lands; the right of the people
to rule has been firmly established. Our
Constitution, written and unwritten, admits
ail that; yet it still finds a place of im-
portance lor the Crown and the represen-
tatives of the Crown. Their supreme func-
tion now is to guard the self-governing
rights of the people.
,®' 1 Philip Game has long been suspected
ir, * blind to this one important duty
1 i.° , im a duty which is indeed the
sole justification for the continued exist-
ence of his office in a self-governing com-
munity. Now, after many months, he does
the community the service of putting his
belief into words. Speaking at Narromine
last week he admitted that the affairs of
the country were in a chaotic state, but
he declared that as the people had accepted
the responsibilities of self-government, it
was their duty and not the Governor’s to
find a way out of their troubles. This
greatly simplifies the problem and brings
the discussion into very narrow limits.
So far as ff he Bulletin is concerned, it
has never suggested that Sir Philip should
find for us a way out of our troubles. In-
deed, even if Sir Philip were competent to
solve our problems off his own bat, to
find for us a way out of our troubles, we
should deny him the right to do it. But
we still more vehemently deny him the
right to neglect the most important part
of his duty, and thus prevent us from gov-
erning ourselves; and, with every respect,
that is what his Excellency is doing, and
has done for many months past. One man
and one man only in the State can prevent
a person or Government of doubtful autho-
rity from governing in the name of the
people. That one man is the Governor;
and he would not be given that authority
if it was not intended that he should exer-
cise it. He is not a person invested with
powers of government; he is merely a part
of the machinery by which the people may
be sure of governing themselves. His duty
is to satisfy himself that the Government
is governing with the consent of the gov-
erned and under their authority; if he is
not so satisfied, then it is for him to re-
quire an appeal to the people. It is not
for him to either approve or disapprove of
any of the acts of his Ministers; whether
he approves or disapproves is a matter of
entirQ indifference to the community. If
his political opinions were of the smallest
moment to us, we should certainly require
him to go up for some sort of election
before appointment. We ask nothing of
him, however, except that he shall be a
person of sound judgment and common-
sense, not capable perhaps of saying
whether a Government has the support of
the people, and not indeed called upon to
say in ordinary circumstances, but with
sufficient intelligence to decide, if the affairs
of a country get into a chaotic condition,
whether a prim a facie case can be made
out for an appeal to the country.
By requiring that appeal a Governor
takes no political side—he takes only the
side of the people. He points to no way
out of a country’s troubles; he only per-
mits the people to exercise their right to
find their own ivay out. Without his per-
mission they cannot exercise that right
except by revolutionary means. Hence
when he tells the people it is up to them
to save themselves, while denying them
the constitutional method of attack, his
Excellency is surely pointing them to the
only alternative method—that of violence.
It is putting the matter very mildly to say
that that is a large responsibility for the
representative of the Crown to take.
CAN TRADE-UNIONISM LAST?
The leaders of trade-unionism in Victoria,
who are also the directors of the Victorian
Labor party, rode down to the Yarra bank
on May Day to address the multitude,
whom, according to their own account, they
are “emancipating.” They carried with
them Acting Premier Tunnecliffe, to whom
they issue orders—in meek obedience to
which Mr. Tunnecliffe broke with the absent
Premier on a vital point of his Govern-
ment’s policy—and in their pockets were
typed copies of resolutions saying that
“this mass meeting of the workers emphati-
cally declares its determination to abolish
the capitalistic system, urges the workers
in other lands to wage vigorously the
struggle against the exploiting class, insists
that the provision of work or adequate
sustenance for the unemployed is a primary
obligation upon Parliament”—and all the
rest of the familiar rigmarole. The mass
meeting materialised, but the resolutions
were never put.
Mr. Tunnecliffe had explained, with diffi-
culty, that he was “standing where I always
stood,” and that “we are nearer our goal
to-day than ever before,” when a party of
“workers” clambered on the platform, a
motor-lorry, and attacked their emanci-
pators with fists and feet. Mr. Riley, presi-
dent of the Trades Hall Council, who was
perhaps nearest “the goal,” suddenly dis-
appeared, and was presently seen on the
ground amidst a knot of proletarians who
were making a football of him.' Blows
were rained on Mr. Tunnecliffe, on Mr.
Crofts (secretary of the Australian Council
of Trade-unions), on Mr. Cameron (presi-
dent of the A.L.P. executive) and several
other grandees from the Trades Hall.
The “comrades” were still at it when the
platform started to leave “this mass meet-
ing of workers”; the driver, a resourceful
man, had resolved to remove the saviours
from the presence of the saved. In the
closing scene the police surged up, and the
battered emancipators were borne away in
a socialistic tram.
There was no such excitement at the May
Day demonstration in the Sydney Domain.
That was given over to speakers who, after
lauding Soviet Russia and pledging them-
selves “to work unceasingly for the over-
throw of capitalism,” concentrated their
attacks on “the Government of J. T. Lang.”
Borrowing a phrase overworked by that
eminent mob leader, Comrade Payne de-
clared that the unemployed had been
reduced to “gypsy standards” under Lang
rule. Comrade Sharkey asserted that the
Lang Government was “assisting the capital-
istic system” and was a party to “the great
betrayal of the workers”; as for Mr. Lang’s
whine that he had been compelled by the
actions of Mr. Lyons to withhold the money
due to the Mothers and Babies of a thou-
sand Langster bleats, Mr. Lang was always
being “compelled” to do something. And
Comrade Chapman, before pitching into
“the so-called Labor Government of N. S.
Wales,” gloried in being a Red. “Why,”
asked Comrade Chapman, “should we be
just a measly Pink?”
If Mr. McGirr, the Minister of Transport,
had been within hearing of Comrade Chap-
man he might have turned pink himself. He
had just ordered the Government railway-
men belonging to unions of which he is
graciously pleased to disapprove to join the
organisation of which Comrade Chapman is
general secretary, the A.R.U. But the
McGirr was away at another meeting, bel-
lowing that his party was “engaged in a
big struggle,” and would “continue to fight.”
His colleague Concannon spoke to the
same mob and rang the changes on the
words “struggle” and “fight.” Two or three
nights later Mr. Beasley, who was a Com-
monwealth Minister, informed a crowd of
waterside workers assembled in the Sydney
Stadium that they were concerned in “a
war worth fighting in more than any other
war,” and that the authorities at Canberra
would “tramp over our dead bodies before
they defeat us”; and Senator Dunn spoke
of “putting 40,000 trained men” against the
New Guard. When such sentiments are
voiced by men who have taken the oath of
allegiance, is it any wonder that the idea of
violence occurs to wilder spirits and
prompts some of them to leap on their
former idols, who stuffed the people with
promises which have not been fulfilled?
The truth is that trade-unionism of the
political sort is being found out. It has
egregiously failed to respond to the acid
test of bad times. In good times it pros-
pered, being flattered and coddled almost
beyond belief. Everything it asked for or
demanded it got. It asked for industrial
arbitration, and industrial arbitration, State
and Federal, was provided. It demanded
that Government employees should join
unions, that unionists should enjoy a pre-
ference, that unionism should be made,
compulsory—the demands were conceded.
A basic wage, limitation of working hours,
workers’ compensation, unemployment in-
surance, motherhood endowment, old-age
and invalid pensions, pensions for widows,
railway passes for holidaying railway em-
ployees, superannuation schemes for all
Government employees, free education
“from the primary school to the university,”
Factory, Employers’ Liability, Navigation,
Boiler Inspection, Workers’ Homes, Shear-
ers’ Housing and Child Welfare Acts—an
accommodating nation provided them all.
It even borrowed hundreds of millions to
promote the trade-union variety of Gov-
ernment ownership, accepting the assurance
of the trade-union leaders that this would
conduct us to general happiness, instead of
which it has landed us in Government in-
solvency and domination by the Govern-
ment-employee vote.
Now plain men are asking, not only
what happened to the hundreds of borrowed
millions, but what became of the millions
that were squeezed from them, in subscrip-
tions and levies, to bolster up political
unionism. They want to know why the
onset of bad times found so many unions
with empty purses and so many of their
leaders with empty heads. Certain it is
that not one constructive idea has come
from the Trades Halls during the period of
the depression: nothing but crazy plans for
inflating the currency, and “controlling”
the banks, and swindling public creditors,
and robbing, under legal forms, wage-payers
who are supposed to have a little left.
And in N. S. Wales, with political unionism
in the ascendant, we see default in prac-
tice and State law broken in the process of
flouting Commonwealth law, read that re-
sistance to the High Court and the national
, Government is a Labor-unionist’s duty, and
hear open threats to smash the Federation,
even if it means civil war.
Australian unionism needs a revolution,
but not a Red outbreak or a defaulters’
rebellion against the Commonwealth. The
revolution that it needs is moral: one that
will give it honest and responsible leader-
ship, a changed outlook, a new spirit of
service. If it continues on its present
course it is doomed. There is nothing sacro-
sanct about Australian unionism: it is
merely a human institution, to be judged
by its works, as all human institutions are.
And without character and capacity no
human institution can endure.
MAY OUR PARLIAMENTS IMPEACH?
“Coif” (B. 27/4/’32) maintains that action
under the laws of Attainder or Impeach-
ment can be taken by a State Legislature
against any citizen of the State, or by the
Commonwealth Legislature against any
citizen of the Commonwealth, but gives no
reasons. Let us look at a few of the authori-
ties. In Theodore v. Duncan, 1919, Lord
Haldane asked: “Does the Constitution of
Queensland include as part of the practice
of its Parliament the power to impeach
Ministers?” Sir John Simon replied: “The
authorities show that it does not.” (This,
of course, was before the abolition of the
Upper House.) He quoted Reilly v. Car-
son, Fenton v. Hampton and Barton v.
Taylor. The gist of these decisions and
of the decision in The Speaker of the
Legislative Assembly v. Glass is to show
that the Lex et consuetudo Parliamenti
applies exclusively to the House of Lords
and the House of Commons, and is not con-
ferred upon a supreme Legislative Assembly
of a colony by the introduction into the
colony of the common law of England.
The Legislature of N. S. Wales could con-
fer upon itself the power of impeachment by
special legislation. But until State Legis-
latures take to themselves such power they
have not got it.
Despite section 49 of the Constitution, it
seems improbable that the Commonwealth
Parliament could transform itself into a
Court to enable it to impeach. The High
Court decided that the Parliament could
not constitute the Inter-State Commission
a Court, because the members of the Com-
mission were to hold office for only seven
years. By section 72 of the Constitution
the Justices of the High Court and of the
other Courts created by the Parliament
(i.e., Federal Courts) shall hold office dur-
ing good behavior. And even the Federal
members of Parliament cannot appoint
themselves for life.
Impeachment was used as a method of
punishing high officers of the Crown in the
days when these officers could not be
reached by the common law of the land.
The same with Attainder. The Crown
was then all powerful. With the growth
of constitutional government it is no
longer necessary to have recourse to
Attainder or Impeachment. Mr. Lang, for
instance, is still amenable to the ordinary
law of the land. He might conceivably
render himself liable to attachment for
disobedience to the orders of the High Court.
But so far as the Legislature of N. S.
Wales is concerned he is quite safe from
any impeachment until after the next elec-
tions. The next Government may, if there
is warrant for the proceeding, have him
prosecuted criminally. The Queensland
Government seriously considered a criminal
prosecution against Mr. Theodore, and
actually instituted a proceeding against him
which, in its nature, was semi-criminal (it,
of course, failed). And when the Govern-
ment investigations commenced Mr. Theo-
dore was Federal Treasurer.
The methods advocated by “Coif” would
create dangerous precedents. The next
party after that which attainted Mr. Lang
might legislate Mr. Stevens’s head off. It
is far wiser and better to let the law deal
with offenders in' the ordinary way.
“Coif” again: “Guilty persons can be
reprieved or pardoned, but by the Lower
House only—the exercise of the Royal pre-
rogative is in this instance specially elimi-
nated.” The leading case on this subject
is Danby’s case. Danby was Lord High
Treasurer, and in 1678 had been carrying on
secret negotiations with Louis XIV. where-
by Charles 11. was to get six million livres a
year for three years, and thus render him-
self independent of Parliament. Since
the Commoners could not touch Charles
("the King can do no wrong”), they pro-
ceeded against Danby. This gentleman
produced a pardon under the Great Seal
given after the commencement of the pro-
ceedings. There was a learned controversy
between Commons and Lords as to whether
this pardon was good. Danby remained in
the Tower until Jeffreys became C.J. in
1685. when, he was bailed to appear before
the Lords bar and released. The question
was finally settled by the Act of Settlement
of 1702, which enacts that no pardon under
the Great Seal may be pleaded to an
impeachment by the Commons; but there
is nothing to say anywhere that the pre-
rogative of pardon cannot be exercised
after conviction.
A very interesting case on pardons lies
buried in the Brisbane “Courier” files. In
1888 Benjamin Kitt was convicted at
Townsville of having stolen two pairs of
boots, and was sentenced by Judge Noel to
three years’ penal servitude. Thomas Mc-
Ilwraith recommended Sir Anthony Mus-
grave to grant a Royal pardon. Sir Anthony
refused “to prostitute his own personal con-
victions at the direction of any other
man or body of men,” and Kitt remained in
gaol. But Mcllwraith had been returned a
few months before and had the whole colony
behind him. He made very strong recom-
mendations to Downing-street, and even
went so far as to tender the resignation
of his Ministry. Queen Victoria stepped
in; a cablegram was received by Sir
Anthony from Lord Knutsford, Secretary
of State for the Colonies, “conveying
authority” to him to release Kitt. Thus the
constitutional principle was established that
a Governor must grant a pardon if advised
to do so by his Ministers, and that the King
can pardon an offender in a “colonial” gaol.
RUSLEX.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Cynical Rogues and Honest Pools.
Lord Beauchamp, most amiable of critics,
would not discuss our politics during his
recent visit to Australia; “but I do wish
members had a place where they could
make a habit of smoking their pipes
together,” he told The Bulletin. “In
England, outside the Chamber, Labor men
and Liberals and Conservatives live
together; there are party rooms, it is true,
but they are hardly ever used. Here, as
far as I can see, members of different par-
ties hardly ever meet under conditions at
all likely to produce friendships and under-
standings. How can you expect to get the
other man’s point of view if you never
meet him in friendship? How can you get
to know him, to judge, his sincerity?”
Lord Beauchamp spoke truth, and because
of it we are an intolerant people, not only
refusing to believe that the other fellow
can be right, but many of us disposed to
believe that he must be a rogue and a
rascal. Our whole political system is being
developed, not on honest differences of
opinion, but on hate and mistrust. In the
old days, if you were a Freetrader, you natu-
rally believed that the Protectionist was
quite wrong; but it was not required of
you to believe that he was not as sincere
a patriot as you were yourself, and as truly
anxious to improve the condition of what
in those days were called “the masses.”
To-day you could not get one Labor man
in a hundred to believe that Lyons and
Bruce, Stevens and Bruxner, Argyle and
Menzies, Moore and Sizer are as sincei*ely
anxious to make the working man pros-
perous and happy as Lang and Scullin are.
They know what “the enemies of Labor”
are after—to reduce pay and increase hours
and generally to “enslave the masses.”
The idea that Lang and Scullin may be
both wrong, that their policies may be
disastrous to the people whom they pre-
sumably believe they are benefiting, and
that Lyons and Bruce and Stevens and
Argyle and Moore may be doing and pro-
posing to do far better for the workers,
never crosses the average Labor mind.
How could it? The average Labor “head”
no longer comes into contact with a single
person who puts forward any but the Labor
side. Only to a small extent does he read
any but Labor literature; and if he does
read, it is in the spirit in which the Labor
man listens to the non-Labor man in the
House, doubting his sincerity, and believ-
ing that, in order to serve his mysterious
“bosses,” he will lie about anything.
In the course of time, it is true, some few
Labor “heads” do get more or less into the
minds of their opponents. Then one of
two things happens: either the man be-
comes a cynic, supporting all the things
he formerly supported but doing it now
with his tongue in his cheek, or he tries
to show his party the light as it has come
to him. If he should attempt to do the
latter there happens to him what has hap-
pened to that long procession of too-earnest
Labor men, from Kidston and Airey, in
Queensland,'down to Jones and Kiernan, of
Victoria, in our own day.
Twenty years ago and earlier we talked
of Labor “blowing out its brains.” It is not
so much its brains that Labor has got into
the habit of blowing out as its knowledge
and honesty. Always there remain behind
two elements —one, the cynics who are there,
because they don’t know any better hole,
and make a living out of their insinceri-
ties; the other, the uninformed, the dupes
of the insincere and self-seeking cynics—
men who have never had a chance to see
the other side of any social question, and
whose political bosses are most determined
they never shall if it can be helped.
What hope is there for such a party—a
party of honest men who would do right
if they knew what the right was, but wholly
in the hands of men who are either cynical
rogues who know, or zealots who have
never had a chance to know? More serious
still, what hope is there for a country that
falls into the hands of such a party?
♦
The Candidates in Queensland.
Nominations for the Queensland elections
on June 11 have produced 155 candidates
for the 57 contested seats. Endorsed Gov-
ernment candidates number 55, endorsed
Labor 57; there are also 15 nominees of
“the Queensland party,” 14 Independents,
6 Communists, 2 Independent Labor, 2
Langites and 1 Independent Farmer. Two
candidates do not reveal any political
label. Three are women: one Government,
one Queensland party, one Indepen-
dent. Three former Labor Ministers, Dun-
stan, Gledson and Larcombe, are seeking to
regain the pleasant path from which their
feet slipped on Labor’s wet day in 1929.
Analysis of occupations in the straight-
out Labor group affords an interesting
sidelight on Labor mentality. Only one
candidate describes himself as a laborer,
though four give manual work of various
kinds as an occupation. On the other
hand, 7 clerks, 3 lawyers, 5 Government
employees, 2 insurance inspectors, 2 den-
tists. 3 journalists, a shop-assistant, a
publican, a schoolteacher, a civil engineer,
a fruit merchant and an ambulance super-
intendent—provide over 80 per cent, of
Labor’s chosen champions. Somehow, it
does not seem quite fitting that the brawny
sons of toil, picks over shoulders, should
march to victory behind these white-
handed gentlemen. The two confessed
Langites comprise a union secretary and a
fruit merchant, the latter a highly appro-
priate occupation for an acolyte of the
high priest of “fruit machines.” Indepen-
dent, Labor consists of a hotel manager and
two gentlemen who do not reveal their
callings. The 6 Communists who are wel-
coming the dawn of revolution consist
of 3 self-avowed laborers, a butcher, a
motor mechanic and a barrister.
Against these the Moore Government
arrays half a dozen lawyers, 13 men of the
land, 6 merchants, 12 other assorted busi-
ness'men, a clerk, a butcher, a housewife
and a doctor. The Q.P. 15 include a
lawyer, 5 business men, a grazier, an
engineer, a motor mechanic, a fruit-farmer,
a housewife and four undescribed citizens.
Among the 14 Independents are 2 men
of the land, 2 business men, a journal-
ist and a sitting member, who has, in
addition to a Labor antagonist, to fight
another Independent at Rockhampton.
Eight Independents do not mention their
vocations.
Summed up, the prospects for the Mooie
Government at this stage appear good. The
reduction of seats is in their favor, and
the internal squabbling which seemed
likely, up to recently, to result in dan-
gerous vote-splitting has evidently been
overcome; there is more of that sort of
thing on the other side. Lang’s antics
next door have scared a large section of the
more thoughtful class of Queensland
workers. Many a man who owns his own
cottage is doubting whether Forgan Smith
could stand out against Red Labor even if
he wanted to. The low unemployment rate
under the Moore regime is widely recog-
nised, and the dole vote is relatively unim-
portant. Nevertheless, there is a hard
fight ahead. The Moore party cannot afford
a single slip, especially in view of the
strenuously hostile efforts of the public-
service unions in revenge for the disciplining
which two of their leaders underwent m
connection with the Federal elections.
4
The Fakirs and the Farmers.
While the fakirs of the cities are trying to
persuade Australia to get piospeious again
by inflation, the prac-
tical men of the coun-
try are beginning to do
wonderful things in
grass improvement. The
difference between the
two is that whereas the
fakirs propose to cut a
blade of grass in halves
and call it two blades,
the practical men pro-
ceed to make two
blades grow where only
one grew before —just
as they have almost
doubled the average
wheat yield of much of
their farming land by
cultivation, super-
phosphates and seed
selection, and just as
they have more than
doubled the clip of
wool per sheep by care-
ful breeding and cull-
ing.
What has been done
towards increasing the
average yield of wheat
is as encouraging as it
is amazing. Between
1891 and 1900 the
highest average yield
in any year in S. Aus.
was 7.9 bushels, and the
average over the whole
period was 4.6 bushels.
For the 10 seasons 1921-
30 the average in thr_
same State was 10.7
bushels. This remark-
able increase has been
achieved, too, in the
face of a steady
advance into what were
once regarded as either
inferior or impossible
wheat lands. Thus the
area under cultivation
in the central State in
1930-31 was 4,180,513
acres as against 1,821,137
acres in 1899.
Nor are the S. Aus-
tralian figures entirely
exceptional. It is true
that in no other great
wheat-growing section
has the crop increase
per acre been so
marked, but other
States show an even
more striking improve-
ment in other respects.
In Victoria, for ex-
ample, there had been
for years a startling
fall in the yield-per-
acre figures. In the four
years 1891-94 the aver-
age crop was 10.7
bushels; in the four
years 1897-1900 it was
under eight bushels.
Some of that difference
may have been due to
differences in the aver-
age of the seasons over
the two periods; but
there is no escaping the
fact that there was a
steady and alarming decline in yield.
This the newer methods not only checked
but turned into a great increase. For the
10 years 1891-1900 the Victorian average was
8.2" bushels; for the past 10 seasons it was
13.3 bushels, notwithstanding that the area
under wheat has more than doubled in the
past 30 years. In N. S. Wales, where
(apart from Westralia) there has been the
greatest percentage increase of area—it has
moved from 1,426,166 acres in 1899 to
5,123,100 acres in 1931—the average yield
has gone from 10.5 bushels in 1891-1900 to
12.43 bushels in 1921-30.
And there has been as remarkable an
increase in the productivity of the sheep.
The invaluable Coghlan of other days
showed in his “Seven Colonies of Australasia
that between 1861 and 1899 the average clip
in N. S. Wales rose steadily from 3.281 b.
to 6.531 b. per sheep; and, though corres-
ponding figures are no longer produced in
the “Commonwealth Year-Book,” the aver-
age for 1922-23-24 had still further risen to
7.291 b. What can be done under favorable
conditions a West Darling (N.S.W.) hold-
ing has just reported. There, in country
often regarded as desert—and sometimes
not far from it—an average of 141 b. was
shorn for the season lately passed.
Large as these improvements have been,
the field explored is very small compared
with that which awaits the grazier in par-
ticular. Thus far little more than top-
dressing has been tried, and that only on a
small scale. Grassland management, includ-
ing, of course, the right selection of grasses
for planting, surface renovation, is
only in its infancy. Thus far most has
been done perhaps with subterranean clover,
whose capacity for choking out even a thick
growth of saffron thistle has lately been
noted, But there is no question that a
general improvement is taking place; and
fortunately here, apart from the admirable
agricultural bureaus and dairy councils and
the like, and backing up the highly service-
able agrostologist branches of the various
agricultural departments, there is a per-
manent driving force in the shape of fer-
tiliser cos., which, while seeking, of course,
their own benefit, can achieve it only by
benefiting others.
Road and Rail Transport.
One of the claims made by the Lang Gov-
ernment when it passed its semLconfiscatory
Transport Act was that under the new
regime losses on the Government railways
would be wiped out. The assertion was
repeated when the railways and tramways,
as well as road traffic, were placed under
the control of a board headed by a dis-
missed railway employee. Figures make the
vaunt ridiculous.
Railway revenue for four months of the
Lang Transport Act is down £40,000 com-
pared with the same four months of 1930-
31. This in spite of the lift given by a
record N.S.W. wool clip and of the fact
that, the rates for coal carriage, in which
motor transport never competed with the
rail, have been increased. On present appear-
ance it is probable that last year s debit
of £4,400,000 will be exceeded, especially as
the board is retrenching 900 railwaymen
who are reckoned too old at 60 and will
all have to be kept by the taxpayers.
The attitude of the great private railway
systems of the U.S.A. and Britain towards
road transport may be compared with that
of Lang and his board. In both countries
road transport is accepted as an auxiliary
to be encouraged. In America, rail cor-
porations are seeking the regulation on an
economic basis of motor transport, and not
its abolition, with the idea of determining
spheres of operations for both motor and
rail. When each sphere is determined, it
is proposed that either the railways or the
motor service shall retire from fields in
which both cannot profitably compete. In
Britain, many of the big companies have
gone farther, and are now running fleets of
road vehicles in cases where they have
proved more profitable than the rail.
Nothing of the kind is likely to be seen
in afflicted N.S.W. for the present, but
later the combined system should be seri-
ously considered. For one thing, it would
abolish for ever the political railway built
from Nowhere to Blue Blazes. These, many
of them nowadays just twin streaks of
rust, have been almost as great a burden
on the State railway system as political
control.
THE EMPIRE DAY LESSON.
“Mr. Lang gave the children of the North Auburn Public School a new and vital angle on all
the Empire Day propaganda that is put before them year by year. - Labor Daily.
“Now, little boys and girls, I will tell you what the Empire is for I borrow say, twenty-five million
pounds in England to build our noble city railway and harbor bridge. I promise to pay
interest on the twenty-five millions; but we don’t actually send the interest to
we send goods: wool, wheat and butter. The English buy the wool wheat and butter then
I beat them for their interest and call them bloodsucking bondholders. Clever, isn't it
Always remember, dear little boys and girls, that Lang is Right.”


N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital .. .. .. .. . . £241,341
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . . . . . . £3,500,000
Total Reserves approximately . . . . . . . . . £900,000
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . . £500,000
Area Planted .. Approx. 130,000 Acres
Bankers; Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong and San Francisco.
Diamond Engagement Mings
£3O
£2O
£25
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
hardy BROS. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE.
I 1 6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Nine months’ Australian trade figures
show that merchandise exports exceeded im-
ports by £25,634,000 sterling; and gold
exports have to be added to that. The sur-
plus of merchandise exports alone was more
than enough to pay all interest and other
charges on the overseas debt. The busy
little group of inflationists who call them-
selves exchange-peggers claim that this re-
markable improvement is due to the high
rate which has discouraged imports and more
or less encouraged exports; but as it has
also resulted in increasing the pile of Aus-
tralian money at. the Commonwealth Bank
in London from £3,800,000 to £15,700,000 in
a year, there are obvious difficulties in the
way of keeping the thing going. Still Aus-
tralia has so much to gain from maintaining
a strong cash position in London that no
quick hauling down .of the exchange rate
is likely, though the natural tendency is all
that way.
The Langsters are plainly rattled. Lang
continues to hold up the collection of Com-
monwealth and State revenue —-his latest
effort in that line was to forbid the sale
of N.S.W. duty stamps at post offices—but
he has taken to stopping away from “Lang
is Right” meetings even when advertised
to address them. He is obviously afraid
of being asked to explain why he is paying-
politicians and Government servants out of
the funds he has accumulated at the Trea-
sury, and in all sorts of insecure offices, in
defiance of the Audit Act, and letting the
Mothers and Babies and the retired public
servants_ go without. Some of his Minis-
ters begin to talk like fishwives worsted in
argument, and his blatherskites in the House
of Reps, have become so flustered that —
to the indignation of even Trades Hall wor-
thies —they voted against the grant of
£600,000 to N. S. Wales for unemployed
relief. If the national Government remains
firm the mob Government will soon be at the
end of its resources.
War loans carrying 4-J p.c. and 5 p.c. are
falling due in Britain, and the Old Man
invited the public to tender for 3 p.c. bonds.
He was offered £120,140,000 in an hour or
so. The attitude of investors is that they
would rather accept the reduced interest for
a long term than have their money handed
back to them and have to hustle round in
search for a new investment, and perhaps
lose it in the process. There are so many
ways of losing money just now with fellows
like Lang about.
Countering Queensland Labor advocacy of.
a return to the 44-hour week, Moore recalled
that Theodore and McCormack had roundly
condemned the cut of four hours when it was
first proposed. It went through in spite of
them ; at once railway fares were increased
10 per cent. The public had to find an addi-
tional £250,000 p.a. for privileges accorded to
railway employees ahum.
“The Leader of the Opposition strongly objected to
the course followed by the Lyons Government and
said it should retrace its steps. He objected just
as strongly to the course followed by Mr. Lang.”
Mr. Scullin defines his attitude.
For the first time since 1891 Maoriland
migration statistics for 1931 show an excess
of departures over arrivals. The figure—
-1409 —is made up, however, by temporary
travellers, the permanent tally showing a
balance in the Dominion’s favor of 544.
Removals to Australia were 329 fewer than
in the previous year. The only unusual
movement shown is a marked tendency of
emigrants from Britain to return; Bull’s
trade revival doubtless provides the expla-
nation.
“As the country has had self-government
for 75 years, and the people have accepted
the responsibility of self-government, it is
the duty of the people and not of the State
Governor to find a way out of the trouble.”
Thus Governor Game. Still there must be
some point at which a Governor is expected
to do something to earn his £5OOO a year.
Langs says he is the people. He wants to
prove this by persuading Governor Game to
swamp the Upper House. He also wants
to deprive the people of their referendum
vote, given them by law, on the question of
Upper House abolition. The matter being
between the people, who, according to Gov-
ernor Game, rule the State, and Lang, who
“Does his Excellency realise that his own salary
and the salaries of his Ministers are being paid out
of a hoard comprising remnants of trust funds, whilst
pensioners and others to whom those funds really
belong go unpaid?”— W. A. Windeyer.
Paymaster (to person outside the queue):
“Retired public servant are you? Want
your superannuation money, eh? How
dare you come butting in among your
betters?”
objects to letting the people decide and who
uses Governor Game and his power of
swamping the Upper House to help him, Gov-
ernor Game can’t crawl out of his responsi-
bility. He is up against one of the rare cases
when he is paid to have a mind of his own
and to decide a little thing for himself. This
lie can do by sending Lang to the people and
letting them say whether Lang is the people
or not.
When Hogan fell ill Attorney-General
Slater stepped into the breach, and, with
industry, perseverance, patience, clarity of
explanation, firmness, courtesy and several
other things, pushed the Financial Emer-
gency (Premiers’ Plan) Bill through Vic.
Assembly. Now lie sides with Tunne-
cliffc against the man for whom he was
deputy in implementing the full plan. Fight-
ing for his Dundas seat in Western Vic.,
Slater told the electors, with a disingenuous-
ness that he would deprecate in an opponent,
that there was only a trifling difference
between him and Hogan—just a matter of a
“simple variation” of the plan. Because
of the “simple variation” Jones and Kiernan
left the Cabinet.
Unmoved by the pleadings of Bailey and
Williams, who, at a special Cabinet meet-
ing, sought to have the election “policy”
watering down the Premiers’ plan revised,
the majority of the Ministry that Hogan
left leaderless decided that they must obey
A.L.P. instructions. So Cabinet and party
go to the country hopelessly split. Before
the A.L.P. bosses applied the whip Hogan,
Jones, Bailey and Williams were for the
plan; Tunnecliffe, Slater, Lemmon and Cain
against it. Planites and amti-Planites are
contesting only 32 seats, one less than a
majority of the House: They will be lucky
if their tally of 30 on dis Solution-day is
not reduced below 22 —the party strength
after the 1926 election.
James, who sits in the House of Reps,
with the Lang rump, likened Lyons, the
other day, to “a buccaneer who sticks up
a coach.” The mental picture of a gentle-
man of fortune laying his caravel, flying
the Jolly Roger, alongside one of Cobb and
Co.’s caravans, and forcing the passengers
to walk the plank, is intriguing, if slightly
confused. Still, no one would expect a
logical train of thought from anyone advo-
cating the Lang plan.
The moral cowardice which was the banc
of the Liberal and Nationalist parties has
descended to the U.A.P. If there was one
politician in Victoria who should have been
tackled in his electorate it was Tunnecliffe,
who changed the policy of his absent Pre-
mier at the bidding of a few party wire-
pullers and wrecked the Government. If
there is one man in Australia whose tenure
of his seat should be challenged it is Lang.
Nor is Auburn a hopeless proposition. In
January Lang-planners were beaten for
seven of the 12 seats on the local council,
albeit even the inmates of the Government
institutions had the vote. Yet Tunnecliffe
was returned unopposed, and though a couple
of hundred N.S.W. gentlemen have nomi-
nated for the U.A.P. selections ballots
they all dodged Auburn. Nothing has helped
Lang more than the belief—well- or ill-
founded—that he has courage. Nothing
could do his opponents more harm than the
feeling that they are afraid of him.
Judged by Lang-gang standards, Victoria
is a queer place. It is trying to pay its
way and so far its Government hasn’t been
garnisheed. The tin hare does not couch
there, it still has a State Savings Batik
no Government lottery has taken up its
quarters in Melbourne, and the “fruit
machine” has withered untimely on its stalk.
An attempt was made to introduce this flat-
catching device, which the Lang Govern-
uiefit i s permitting to function in the teeth
of the law. The pioneer was fined £5 ss.
Perhaps the Lang gang will consider this
another argument for secession.
Prompted by somebody behind the scenes
an interjector at an election meeting at
Preston (Vic.) taunted Jones, M.L.C., with
having drawn £4O from the State Treasury
to pay his fare to Maoriland at the end of
March. Jones, who was on the platform
with U.A.P.’s, insisted that he had paid his
own fare. Next day Webber, his former
“comrade,” asserted that Jones had drawn
£4O at the rate of 325. a day when out
of the State, and 16s. a day for two
days in the State (Webber is seeking re-
election for the constituency, Heidelberg,
which Jones dared to invade.) Jones re-
torted that he had paid the passage-money,
and that the £4O was for official inquiries made
at Wellington and Sydney by Cabinet direc-
tion. Hitting back he declared that an
electric-light plant for the Lake Tyers abo.
station, extra holiday leave for mental hos-
pital employees and other items of outlay,
which he would have stopped as Acting-
Treasurer, had been authorised while he
was away for 23 days. These recriminations
were bound to come after the Cabinet split,
and before polling day a few more rockets
are likely to be exploded.
In the course of his career as revolution-
ary and repudiationist, Garden has been
hustled and bashed by gentlemen of his own
persuasion; and no one took much notice.
But the New Guard has since arisen, and
Lang has the wind up, and Garden prepares
Lang’s speeches, and an ambitious police
officer is burning with zeal to 1 serve Lang
and his friends. Said Lang’s newspaper:—
As . virtual Metropolitan Superintendent, the
activities of the 800 Guard will come under
the personal supervision of Mr. Mackay. Should
his appointment he confirmed after the usual period,
he will be next in line for the Commissionership.
For that reason, his handling- of the 800 Guard
will be watched very closely by the Labor movement.
So when the C. 1.8. was informed in an
excited Glasgow voice that Garden had been
“murderously attacked by the New Guard”
in his own grounds, it was as if a dozen mur-
“Mr. Lang has not paid pensions due to public
servants and widows; he has failed to meet the
quarterly bursaries bequests; he has defaulted to the
extent of £3,000,000 in interest, and he is unable
to raise a penny overseas.”
His Master’s Voice: “Say something for
’em, Jack. Say ‘Dammit, I will fly.’”
ders had been reported at once. Lang’s
newspaper again:—
The matter was placed in the hands of Acting-
Metropolitan Superintendent Mackay. Following a
long conference with Mr. Mackay, Det. -Sergeants
James and Watkins and Detectives Alford, Findlay,
Delaney and Wilks lost no time in getting on to
the trail of the suspects. One man was brought to
police ■ headquarters during the afternoon. The arrest
of six .others took place at intervals up till and
after midnight. At two o’clock in the morning, an
eighth man was detained. Inspector Pryor was on the
job for nearly 24 hours without a break.
A doctor who attended the victim of the
“murderous attack” certified that his in-
juries amounted to “slight concussion on
the underlying tissues of the back of the
scalp and other abrasions.” Six of the
eight accused, all young fellows, had un-
blemished records; they were nevertheless
sentenced to three months without the
option. During the timber strike, led by
Garden and others, members of the basher
gang kicked to maim, to blind; not one
of them was even fined. It is now taken
for granted that the Mackay appointment
will be confirmed.
Blackguardly attacks continue to be made
by Langsters on the High Court Judges
who failed to give a decision in conformity
with the “Lang is Right” creed, One of
“The saddest feature of the High Court decision
is not in the temporary embarrassment it may cause
the State of New South Wales, but it must bring
the judiciary of Australia into the same position as
it stands with the lawyers of Australia —that is, into
contempt.”— Lang’s Attorney-General, Lamaro.
“Yah, that’s what I think of you!”
the vile allegations is that four members of
the highest tribunal in the land were actuated
by political motives. A direct charge of par-
tiality against a Judge has been held action-
able and punishable in England ; a Birming-
ham newspaper discovered this to its cost.
But perhaps their Honors despise the mud-
throwers too much to proceed against them.
The one bright spot in the wool industry
is the demand for fine lightweight wool
fabrics for women’s wear. Seventy per cent,
of the output of the textile mills consists
of these, and new machinery is being installed
to provide for further expansion. Unfor-
tunately, Australia uses only 6 p.c. of its
wool production, but the new fashion fur-
nishes a good reason for further research
work in the fabrication of lightweight
materials and for the maintaining of a high
tariff rate against the produce of the worm
and wood-shavings.
Minister Concannon hints that if Lang
decides to squib it —take refuge in the
House of Reps, per favor of his seat-
warmer, Gander—Minister McGirr may suc-
ceed him. Nothing could be more appro-
priate than that one rich man should follow
another in the leadership of the “Labor"
party; and McGirr has other qualifications.
He is almost as big a political humbug as
the Boss. Take for example this choice bit
of snuffle, spoken into the microphone:—
Mr. Stevens says it is un-British to suspend
overseas interest payments, to claim a moratorium
from bondholders. My answer to that is that, if to
save our own people from starvation and suffering
is un-British, then I am proud to be an Australian.
Two or three days previously the “S. M.
Herald” had reported a case in which an-
other rich McGirr, brother Paddy, chairman
of the Western Lands Board, was con-
cerned:—
Albert Milgate sought relief under the Moratorium
Act i from immediate enforcement of a judgment for
£1027 4s. 3d. signed by Patrick Michael McGirr.
Milgate purchased from McGirr shops in Parkes
for £10,500. He took over a mortgage for £6500,
paid £3OOO cash and gave promissory notes for the
balance, in respect of which judgment was obtained.
His counsel said the property had decreased in
value by far more than the £1027. His Honor
said he did not want to force a man into the
Bankruptcy Court if he was solvent. Provisional
order for £l6 a month.
Presumably the McGirr “policy” is only for
“bloodsucking bondholders,” not for McGirrs.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Jermyn Street”: A bankrupt made his
bow in Sydney the other day who was
alleged to “have arrived by the luxurious
Strathaird, to be staying at the Hotel Aus-
tralia, and to be the user of a Rolls-Royce.’
He “estimated his liabilities at £125 7s. and
his assets at nil.” His position is consider-
ably more encouraging than that of a bright
London lad who recently concluded a lavish
career in the usual place, and told the
Receiver that “his liabilities were £.->2,000
THAT PAINED EXPRESSION.
"Your husband looks as if he’d been paying a visit to his dentist.”
“Worse! He’s been paying a bill to my milliner.”
and his total assets one gold cigarette-case.
Counsel for creditor accused him of living
at the Savoy Hotel, and got the astonishing
answer: “It’s handy to this court; and,
anyhow, can you tell me of a better place
to live?”
* * *
“Two Pips” : I was with a W.A. man on
Anzac Day who mentioned that he was wear-
ing the boots he had on at the Landing. He
didn’t keep them in a glass case, either, but
gave them an occasional airing. I thought
this must have been a unique occurrence, and
was telling another Digger about it that
night, when he said: “But I marched to-day
in the boots I wore at the Landing.” I
wonder how many others did.
* * * #
“Chevroford”: Melbourne Domain, where,
for the first time in the history of the State,
a Premier or acting Premier was violently
assaulted by a May Day mob, is a God-for-
saken tract fronted by
the Yarra and backed
by the brick curtain of
the loco, sheds. Labor
men have frequently
demanded that the
locale of the prole-
tarian forum should be
transferred to the more
aesthetic surroundings
of the Exhibition
Gardens in the city,
but Authority, jealous
of the people’s flower-
beds, has always re-
fused the request. In
Paris the annual
frenzy is staged in the
centre of the city. All
traffic is stopped and
the whole metropolis is
under military occupa-
tion. Nevertheless, the
mob usually gets out
of hand, and handy
weapons are provided
in the iron grills sur-
rounding the trees on
the boulevards. A May
Day I witnessed in
Paris had points in
common with the Mel-
bourne demonstration.
Two Socialist depu-
ties tried to restrain the
crowd, with the only
result that one was
cut down by the sabre
of a gendarme, while
the other was chased
to cover by the prole-
tarians he was sup-
posed to represent. Mr.
Tunnediffe had noth-
ing to complain of as
regards the behavior of his own police. If they
had not rallied round him and escorted him
to a tram he might not have got off with as
little as a bruised head. Few of the 5000
seemed to have any sympathy with their
elected head.
“Pom”: The rebirth of Sydney Stadium
is an interesting phenomenon. I went
to a championship fight there in the
closing days of the boom, when money was
being sprayed round like water. The fight
was all right, as a fight, but the building
was half-empty, and the general atmosphere
was so dull and dispiriting that I swore
never to go again. A friend from M.L. per-
suaded me to go to the Palmer-Campbell dis-
turbance the other night, alleging that his
fellow-countryman Was another Les Darcy.
“The pity of it is,” he said, “there won’t be
many there on account of the slump.” As a
fight the show was rotten, the invader being-
outclassed from the jump ; but as an entertain-
ment it was great. And, by some miracle of
crowd-psychology, thousands knew it was
going to be. Every side street outside was
filled with parked cars, and every seat inside
was filled with men and women. Near the
ring were a couple of High Court Judges,
half a dozen Supreme Court and District
Court Solons, about the same number of
clerics, and most of the city’s sporting doc-
tors, barristers, solicitors and business men.
Campbell was piped in by a Highlander; an
earl spoke into a mike in the ring; so did
Judy Kelly, the would-be film star, and the
pugs. Then the winner was decorated with
a laurel wreath and belt, and there were
other stunts of the sort. It had nothing to
do with boxing, but the crowd liked it, con-
versation became general, and the ushers had
difficulty in persuading the party to break
up and go home. H. D. Mclntosh is the only
promoter iu the history of the game who has
thought of turning a scrap into a social
function, and it seems to pay-at any rate
i n various Svdnev
m O reganous feya y. *
“Stratford-atte-Bowe” : The periodical con-
troversy about the Australian accent doesn’t as
a rule produce much that is new. but Professor
UPHOLDING THE SHIP'S REPUTATION.
YOUNG MATRON: “Great boat this for getting young couples engaged, I believe. What’s
your record?”
NAVIGATING OFFICER: “Oh, pretty good! We average about fourteen knots a voyage."
R. G. Cameron, who fills the Chair of Edu-
cation at the University of W.A., has some-
thing to say about it that doesn't seem to
have been noted before. The professor, who
is a Sydney native, declares that one of the
first things that struck him when he arrived
on the banks of the Swan was that the
speech in Perth of adults as well as
children was “much nearer England ’ than
that of adults and children in Sydney. Ims
he attributes to the latter having been more
affected by contact with America. Ihe
speech of Melbourne lie ranks as inter-
mediate between the two. V\ here Adelaide
comes in isn't stated.
"Bel Canto" : Climatic conditions have an
admitted effect on natural voice develop-
ment. as apart from the intensive training
required later. Recently a Roman Catholic
prelate from N.S.W., paying liis first visit
to Rockhampton, in Central Queensland,
remarked on the astonishing clarity and
musical tone of the voices of a number of
school children, to whose concerted singing he
had listened ; he said it was far ahead of any-
thing he had heard in other parts of Aus-
tralia. In this connection it is worth noting
that little Bundaberg, in a sub-tropical
climate much akin to that of southern Italy,
has produced at least two singers of note—
Gladys Moncrieff and Molly de Gunst.
Another Queenslander is the dramatic soprano
Norah Mack, who scored in Sydney lately as
Frasquita, in “Carmen.” Further, Melba
spent some years of her young wifehood tu
Mackay. and who is to say that her sojourn
in that North Queensland sugar town did
not enrich the voice that later enchanted
the world?
“Harold Hardupp”: I am inclined to
doubt whether the Sydney Harbor Bridge
will ever become as popular a suicide 5 resort
as The Gap; an overwhelming majority of
would-be or miglit-be suicides will always
favor the latter, because, even if they aren’t
intercepted, it leaves a loophole for
rescue and resuscitation. Anyone who
proposes to go into the next world off
the Bridge has little chance of being pre-
vented in his design, and far less (accord-
ing to a doctor) of reaching the water alive.
On the other hand, police records show that
20 or 30 people are intercepted on the way
to a threatened end at The Gap, and sent
to the Reception House to bring them to
a better frame of mind, for every one who
actually goes over. It is worth noting that
drowning isn’t a particular popular method
of suicide in these days; of 277 people who
ended their own lives in N.S.W. last year
only 18 chose the watery route.
“Jules” : llow many Australians noticed
that the first cables about the French
elections were headed “Sunday”? They have
been holding elections an that day in France
ever since the politicians got the better of
the clericals. France, which claims to lead
the world in political enlightenment, elec-
tioneers on strangely conservative lines.
When I was in Paris four years ago, one
Mademoiselle' Verona (president of the
Rights of Women League) was staging a
suffragette agitation after the style of the
pre-war one in England. Women are still
without votes in France. A reason why Par-
liamentary life in France is just one crisis
after another is that a Government defeat
doesn’t mean an election; someone forms an-
other Administration from the multitudinous
parties in the Deputies, and the show goes
on as before. You can rarely tell on the
Monday after a general election how the fight
has gone. The issue is decided at the second
ballot on’ the Sunday following. The French
are not exactly incorruptible politically—far
from it —but they don’t, have any sliding
ballot-box scandals. The elector drops his
voting-paper into a sort of pitcher, and no
one is allowed to see him doing it. The
pitcher is in a room screened off from the
world by a curtain; the communes get a
subsidy of 60 francs for each of these cur-
tains from the Government. They call these
rooms “confessionals.” I once saw an elec-
tor arrested and dragged protesting from a
“confessional” to a police van. Another elec-
tor had bumped into him and discovered he
was carrying a revolver. The penalty for
voting armed m France is a fine ot 10UU
francs.
"Lex’’: “.Captain Lancaster,” says a
Miami cable, “wrote Haden Clarke’s ‘suicide’
letters. “It was the spelling of ‘advise
instead of ‘advice’ that first made the
police suspicious.” Hundreds of forgers
have been bowled out by spelling mis-
takes. Pigott, the informer, was un-
masked in the famous London “Times’
case because he mis-spelt “hesitancy,” making
it “hesitency,” as he had done in the Par-
nell letters lie forged. He fled the coun-
try after Russell’s cross-examination, and
T. P. O’Connor, editor of the “Star,” put
a witty poster on the streets half an hour
later—“ The Man Who Hesitetes Is Lost.
Allaway, who murdered a girl at Bourne-
mouth five or six years ago, sent her decoy
telegrams and letters, in which “pleasant
was always spelt “plesant.” Counsel made
him write the word, and he was done. A
Mrs. Brown staged a bogus robbery in her
house, and lodged a claim against an insur-
ance company. Part of the evidence that
the place had been broken into consisted of
a pencilled note which ran. “You see I have
been to see you again, my dear Mrs. Broun.
Asked to write these words she revealed
the astonishing fact that she couldn’t spell
her own name, broke down and admitted all.
A wartime spy always spelt “complete” with
an “a,” and a wit weighed in with this after
his conviction :
The spy now falls from his inglorious throne,
One word his bane, th’ indictment all his own ;
One word, “compleat,” completes th’ unlettered spell,
And his own spelling spells his freedom’s knell.
“Fosco” : Few malefactors grow fat in gaol.
A 1 Capone has furnished an exception; “his
great weight has increased to 2751b> during his
stay of more than a year at Cook County
gaol,” was chronicled on his recent transfer
to Leavenworth, a penitentiary more, m
keeping with the criminal’s distinction.
Quite likely he will have a chance of taking
off weight there. Arthur Orton,, the Tich-
borne claimant, was a mountain of fat,
probably a few stone more than Capone,
when Nemesis overtook him. It used to be
told of him that he once went through the
floor of a London four-wheeler on his way
to court. Hi.s obesity looked like shortening
his life; but 10 years in gaol reduced him
to reasonable proportions again, and when
he emerged from confinement he took up
his old recreation of pigeon-shooting (Orton
was a good shot ) with all his old gusto and
ten times his old alacrity. Similarly, 10
years or so of compulsory dieting may. give
the corpulent Capone a new lease of life.
“The Monk” at a beauty competition:—
Taking business with pleasure, and my best eye
for beauty, I have just travelled 3000 miles
in N., S. Wales, Victoria and South Aus., and
checked off 300 towns and villages in the process.
There is no “most beautiful village’’ at all times,
some that are very fair at one season are poor drab
things at another. Autumn serves the southern
centres best; for this is the season when the
European trees put on their going-out dresses. Which
explains why for at least two months in the year
Melbourne is much more beautiful than Sydney.
Wherever there is a winding creek planted with
basket willows there is a splash of old gold across
the green country landscape; and for those few weeks
the yellowing poplar is a rich delight. Macedon
in this brief period holds more color than perhaps
any other village in Australia. For quiet beauty,
Coleraine, in the Western District of Vic., might
challenge the continent and almost the world. Three
other sights stay in the memory—Bacchus Marsh from
the winding road that, overlooks it; Kiama from
that other winding road which comes in from
Nowra; and, in the far North, the valley of the
Tweed below Murwillumbah. Of war memorials,
Camperdown has the tallest; not one stays in the
memory because of its beauty. Of memorial planta-
tions there are many, most of them sadly neglected,
none of them to approach that of Bacchus Marsh
in growth or beauty, though Ballarat’s drive, with
its effective arch, is impressive. Unhappily, it is
so long that it trails out into the plain far beyond
the city, where the poor stunted trees shiver in
the frequent blizzard.
THE LATEST POLICE JOB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Whiddon said that holders of winning tickets
in State lotteries needn’t be afraid to draw their
prizes in banknotes, as police guards would be pro-
vided to escort them to the nearest bank.”
“See, Dad, that pair of cops who stride
Along so stern of mien,
Like Law and Order personified.
The scourge of crime and the city’s pride.
And who is it walks between?
“Is it some base felon they have in tow,
Surprised at his calling grim ;
Some Sikes or Fagin they mean to stow
Secure in clink? One might reckon so
By the care they take of him.
“Do they fear some rescue before he’s jailed
That to left and right they cast
Uneasy glances for dangers veiled?
Have they got the slippy ‘Cat Burglar’
nailed,
Or the ‘Lone Wolf’ nabbed at last?
“Could he break away with a sudden twist
And dart, do you reckon, Dad,
To fade away in the screening mist?
Or are there gyves on his twitching wrist,
Like Eugene Aram had?
“No, he walks unshackled. What’s more,
liis face
Seems somehow strangely bright.
So I guess he’s glad that the cruel chase
Is done, and he’ll sleep in a decent place
Full-fed once more to-night.”
“S’truth, ’tisu’t a master crook or gun,
Or a human ‘Wolf’ or ‘Cat’
That those lads in blue have in charge, my
son.
Why let your boyish fancies run
Away with you like that?
“He’s got the loot, you can guarantee,
And a cop upon either flank,
But he isn’t an underworld grandee
Haled off to the jug and the third degree.
Not much! He’s luckier than you or me,
For his splosh was won in the Lottery,
And the guardian Johns are there to see
He gets it safe to the bank.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Norbell”: A news item from Adelaide
telling of a young man who posed as the
Earl of Something-or-other, and thereby vic-
timised several credulous tradesmen, reminds
me. When the Prince of Wales visited Aus-
tralia Fred Whitehead, of Melbourne
“Herald,” and Erie Cox, of the “Argus,”
accompanied the Royal progress to furnish
first-hand splurge for their papers. They
sought accommodation at the Launceston
hotel where the Prince was housed, but found
themselves pushed into an attic, with the assur-
ance that they might consider themselves
lucky to get sleeping quarters in the hotel
at all. As they were tossing to see who
would have the softer bed, the landlady
knocked at the door. “Erie Cox?” she asked
IN THE MILLIONAIRE CLASS.
“How rich are they?”
“Rich enough to tell the truth about how broke they used to be.”
in honey-laden accents. Cox stepped for’ard.
“Oh, my lord!” she burbled agitatedly, “I
have only just heard ! A dreadful mistake
has occurred; Boots mistook you for a
reporter. This way, my lord.” And she
led him to a swish suite on the first floor.
Whitehead was left in the attic cursing a
thoughtless godfather.
“Verri”: For juvenile enterprise I nomi-
nate the three youngsters belonging to my
next-door neighbor. An elder sister wanted
a Pekinese, but the depression blighted her
hopes. The three young ’uns managed
to scrape up six shillings, one of which
they expended on a brief ad. for a lost Peke
in the suburban rag, offering the other five
as a reward for the supposititious animal.
Their success exceeded all anticipations, no
fewer than four dogs being brought to the
empty house near by that they selected as
the meeting-place. They claimed the best
one, bore it home in triumph, and presented
it to a horrified sister. That’s months ago.
and despite efforts to find the rightful owner
the Peke remains one of the family.
“X.S.”: The theft of an oil-painting from
the Aquarium Art Gallery at Melbourne
Exhibition Building suggests that the art
education of the underworld needs attending
to. The picture was “The Wayfarer,” and
was one of the collection lent to that anti-
quated institution by the late Dr. 1.. L.
Smith, father of Lud Mayor Gengoult Smith.
If the entire collection were carried away one
dark night the nation’s art treasures would
not be a picture the worse, for Dr. Smith
had a quaint taste in paintings, though it
was not much more eccentric than that which
dictated the purchase of some of the works
at the National Gallery. Incidentally, the
Aquarium work is worth a visit by histori-
cal students. Citizens accustomed to th°
ornate surroundings and sophisticated enter-
tainment of the movie seraglios might
is one Fritz Joubert
Duquesne, whose ad-
ventures as a German
spy are set out in a
book called “The Man
Who Killed Kitch-
ener,” “edited,” of
course, by an Ameri-
can. Duquesne asserts
that a Russian envoy,
specially sent to Lon-
don to beg “Iv. of K.”
to visit Petersburg,
was kidnapped or
spirited away, and
that he (Duquesne)
impersonated the mes-
senger. Kitchener rose
to the bait and the
bogus envoy got. him
on board the Hamp-
shire. having first
arranged for a cordon
of submarines. He had
been supplied by Yon
Tirpitz with some
message sheets, “the
top half painted with
a luminous substance.
These were thrown
overboard and picked
up by the submarine
cordon, which then
converged on the
Hampshire.” Duquesne
scarcely credit the fact that it was once
the show place of the town, where Dad took
his family to hear the seals fed, look at
the bad copies of bad European statuary,
set miniature effigies of cricketers in action,
and start music playing by putting pennies
in slots. Nevertheless, an intelligent child
might learn quite a lot about his country’s
past by contemplating Ned Kelly’s armor and
the relics of the Eureka Stockade.
“Centurion” : One result of the Great Wav
was a crop of magnificent liars. The latest
explains his own survival by alleging that
he escaped on a raft, which is about as
likely as the rest of the yarn.
* * * *
“Tennessee”: It is unbelievable that any
all-white jury, in America or any other
country, would have convicted the naval
officer, his mother-in-law and the two naval
ratings who took the law into their own
hands at Honolulu and lynched the native
who had outraged the officer’s wife. But
Washington had to make a show of enforcing
its criminal code, although there were pre-
dictions of dire repercussions if by any
chance the prisoners should be convicted.
And, the jury being only partly Caucasian,
they irere convicted, albeit of manslaughter
only, and sentenced to “not less than 10
years’ imprisonment.” The Governor made
the 10 years “one hour.” It was all utterly
illogical, of course, and equally inevitable
Despite the jurists and the textbooks, there
is not and never will be one law for higher
and inferior races in mixed communities—
at least, not where the honor of white
women is concerned. So, for all practical
purposes, lynch law has been condoned in
Hawaii, just as it has been condoned for
half a century in the Southern States of
Uncle Sam’s vast territory.
“Beefo”: That story of women having
been yoked to the plough in South Aus.
(B. 20/4/’32) reminds me of an incident
in Upper Palestine during the war. A couple
of Light Horsemen were remonstrating with
a fat Jewish farmer for having yoked up a
female, evidently his wife, side by side with
a donkey in one of the wooden ploughs
peculiar to the country. Arguments were
in vain, so they unharnessed the woman and
put the husband in her place. The Jew turned
out a real jib, and refused to budge an inch.
After a few minutes the woman interfered,
and in broken English informed her would-
be champions that she could pull much better
than her hubby and nearly as well as the
donk. At that the chivalrous. Light Ilorse-
nien rode away, resolved never again to
interfere with strangers’ domestic arrange-
ments.
* * * *
“Diego”: Ex-King Manoel of Portugal,
whose suburban residence at Twickenham
(England) was burgled the other day and
looted of some valuable art treasures, must
be the doyen of the deposed royalties of
Europe who have to make their homes
in any country but their own, for Manoel
lost his job long before the Great War. Yet
he is still young as ex-kings go, three years
younger than Alfonso of Spain, who reigned
tor over 40 years, from his cradle onwards.
Manoel, on the other hand, ascended a throne
that was already tottering, after his father
and his elder brother had been assassinated,
and his experiences of kingship were as
brief as they were stormy. His subjects are
alleged to have got tired of him even more
quickly than they might otherwise have doin'
because of an affaire with the French actress.
Gaby Deslys, which created a certain interest
at the time. The English press has never
WHY, OF COURSE.
AUNT JANE: “Now, tell me who were the first man and woman?”
LITTLE MARY: “Adam”
AUNT JANE: “Yes. Adam, and—Adam and”
LITTLE MARY: “Adam — and — Madam.”
given Manoel much space, although the Eng-
lish Court, after its fashion, still recognises
him as a kingly kinsman. Most ex-royalties
live in hope of being recalled to their old
jobs or recapturing them by force some day
or other, but Portugal has never given any
indication of wanting Manoel back.
“Cave Canem”: Few owners
of dogs seem to worry much
about the legal liabilities in
which such ownership may in-
volve them, yet actions brought
by aggrieved parties are fre-
quent enough to make a few
points worth remembering. In
the first place, the old legal doc-
trine which held that a clog was
entitled to one bite has been
pretty well abolished by legisla-
tion, so that the animal’s ante-
cedents should be carefully
examined by the intending
owner. A man may keep a dog
which is not dangerously savage
as a protection against tres-
passers. Furthermore, the
N.S.W. Supreme Court held a
few weeks ago that a person
who places his hand on another's
fence is technically a tres-
passer, and cannot recover dam-
ages if a dog springs up and
bites the hand. This decision,
however, is now the subject of
an appeal to the High Court.
When an itinerant hawker is
sifized by the pants by a dog
the owner’s liability depends
upon whether such a person is
properly to be classed as a
crespasser. But. a dog-owner
may safeguard himself by prominently dis-
playing a “Beware of the Dog” caution and
another notice warning off hawkers.
“Manitou Pewebic” : Complaint was made
recently of “the inaccuracies appearing in
printed records” of early Australian his-
tory. The latest appears in the “Souvenir
of the Harbor Bridge,” published by autho
rity. Here John Macarthur, founder of the
wool industry, is mentioned as “Captain
Macarthur, of the 102nd Regiment.” Mac
arthur was never an officer of the 102nd
Regiment. He belonged to the N.S.W. Corps,
and retired in 1803. The name of the
“corps” was not changed until after Bligh’s
deposition; it became the “102nd” in
December, 1808.
“S.T.S.”: There is one unfore-
seen drawback about getting an Aus-
tralian novel printed in England.
The lino, man there knows our place-
names no more than does the proof-
reader. So, unless you can have the
proofs sent here —which is unlikely—
or get an Australian friend in Lou-
don to read them, you may find your-
self, as does a young Adelaide writer
in his novel published by the
Stockwell firm, made to talk of
Mount “Cambier,” “Codnadatta” and
“Coannas.”
“F.S.”: As a variant to the periodical
excitement over the discovery of alleged
Rembrandts and Whistlers in Melbourne,
much enthusiasm has been displayed over
some specimens of sculpture which decorate
the facade of the old Bank of Australasia,
due for demolition shortly. No less an
authority than R. Godfrey, president of the
Vic. Architectural Students’ Society, states
that the designs were the work of the late
Web-Gilbert and were amongst the finest
examples of Italian architecture in the
metropolis. According to Mr. Godfrey, they
would probably be erected as historical relies
at the University. There seems to be some
confusion of thought here. , Historically, the
work may be of value, but to the artistic
eye it looks entirely conventional. If Web-
Gilbert was responsible for it, he got public
commissions very early in life, because he
was only 33 at the time. The fact that the
carver employed by the architects was one
James Gilbert may throw some light on the
situation. Masons in thos<‘ days were crafts-
men and could turn out such work ad lib.
These little misunderstandings are always
liable to occur when works of art are judged,
not by their artistic qualities, but by the quality
of the canvas or the frame, or the fact that
they bear a possibly forged signature. There
is a picture in private hands in Melbourne
which appears to be a genuine Murillo; but
it has no signature on it, so it has no
interest for the authorities. Yet painters
who know that master’s work say that if
it isn’t a Murillo, then it was painted by
an artist of the period who was just as good
as Murillo, in that painting at least. That
ought to be enough, unless the value of a
work of art lies in the signature and not in
the amount of truth expressed.
“Ah Gee Too”: Both “Shop” (B. 20/4/’32)
and “S.M.L.E.” (B. 27/4/’32) apparently
miss the point about the new fast-shooting
rifle. As the latter says, the new bayonet
weighs less, but what really counts is the
weight of the ammunition to be carried. The
faster a rifle shoots the more ammunition
it uses; and ammunition is weighty stuff.
This argument, of course, can be used
against all light automatic guns, and the
appearance of a Lewis-gun section going
into action shows the difficulty very clearly.
* :Sc $
“Deep Lead” : As to the record number of
candidates for a single Parliamentary seat
(B. 4/5/’32), didn’t Charles Cameron King-
stone once canter home at the head of a
field of 32 or 13 in South Australia? The
most impressive victory over numbers that
I can remember was when Bobby Ilastie, the
first leader of the Parliamentary Labor party
in Westralia, was opposed by six other
aspirants for the newly-formed Kanowna
seat and polled so well that the whole half-
dozen forfeited their deposits. Ilastie was
a dryblower; that and the Labor ticket, theu
appearing for the first time, were about the
extent of his qualifications, but they proved
sufficient. He presently became Minister
for Mines, but less than five years after his
initial triumph he failed to win the Labor
nomination, and faded away into obscurity
again.
TOO BIG AN AUDIENCE.
M AISIE: “Do you think a girl can really
love before twentyf”
D AISY: “I wouldn’t care to try myself.”
THE TELL-TALE FAG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“She found cigarette butts on the floor of her
husband’s car, and noticed that the end of one was
circled in red lipstick. ’-—Evidence in divorce case.
An alien hair or two upon his shoulder,
.A little dab of powder on his coat,
Has made the heart of many a wife grow
colder
For infidelities that they denote ;
.V whiff of scent may make suspicion
smoulder
Until it wrecks the matrimonial boat.
All circumstantial evidence, ’tis true.
And this was piquantly encircling, too.
Some explanations hold a certain fitness.
A plausibility that’s hard to rip.
That butt betrayed, with damning definite-
ness,
A jaunt that hadn’t been a business trip:
Proof pikestaff-plain was there and damning
witness
Of dainty feminine companionship.
No male, I’ll warrant, that you ever met
Left marks like those upon a cigarette.
O clinging beauty-aid! O rich cosmetic!
Kiss-proof admittedly you may have been
Against as ardent and a.s energetic
Canoodling as they show upon the screen,
But. not against the softly sympathetic
Caresses of My Lady Nicotine.
Of lips’ red store a keener pillager.
She takes a dash of color off with her.
You girls whose fancies turn to sly trans-
gressions,
Smoke-ohs for two in cosy cars designed,
Assuming that you entertain obsessions
Against the faintest sign being left behind
Of your complicity in indiscretions,
Here’s something it were well to keep in
mind:
Censorious tongues will have less chance to
wag
If you employ a holder for your fag.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


_ ith nen)
rinji fastener ’
PRICE-
niiaBRmBiBSiTi
. ui Queen St. Brisbane
rilANDli
plaited!
KANGAROO
SKIN BELT
GOLD MINING
THE
"CURVILINEAR” ONCENTRATING TABLE
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND PRICE
sdf
sadf
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE
This machine will give a higher recovery than any other table on the market.
Sold in large numbers to South Africa. Hundreds on the market, with many
repeat orders. Anyone can handle this table in half an hour. Call and get a
demonstration,'or write
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Taxation and the
Investor.
Consols and other securities com-
pared. The Exchange tangle from
Investors’ point of view.
These and many subjects
of vital interest are dis-
cussed in the May issue of
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEK. ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Paul Doumer, President of Prance, assas-
sinated by a crazy Russian last week, was
the thirteenth holder of that office since the
Third Republic came into existence in IS7I.
One of his predecessors, Carnot, suffered a
similar fate; Carnot was stabbed in liis car-
riage on his way to the theatre at Ryans by
an Italian anarchist. Doumer, who succeeded
Gaston »Doumergue as President last year,
was 75; the son of a railway worker, he had
a long political career and rose to the highest
office in the Republic by devoted service and
solid gifts. Four of his sons, fell in the war.
One of the surprises of the Westralian Leg.
Council elections was the severe boating ad-
ministered to Knight William Lathlain-
Mayor of Perth from 1917 to 1923, and again
for the last two years—in the Metropolitan-
Suburban province. Lathlain's vanquisher
was Alex. Clydesdale, who was a Labor
M.L.A. from 1917 until last elections, but
never cut much ice in the party, most of
his energies being directed to running a
proprietary racing club. Lathlain was an
indefatigable war-worker in liis first lengthy
mayoral term, which only _ ended because he
tried to pick a definite site for the Perth
Town Hall and appealed to the ratepayers
on it, thereby antagonising all the interests
that favored numerous other sites. But he
returned to the mayoral chair six years later
and looks like putting up a record for length
of service there.
Donald Mackintosh, who died recently at
Toowoomba, aged 92, was one of those sturdy
pioneers who did so much to develop the
Darling Downs. Born in the Scottish High-
lands, he came to Queensland at 22, and
straightway humped bluey through Cunning-
ham’s Gap to Warwick, where he took on
the first job offering. Later he acquired land
of his own and, after years of sheep-breeding
and wheat-growing, concentrated on dairy-
farming, making a success of all. For years ne
sat for Pittsworth in,the Queensland Parlia-
ment, and was one of its most picturesque
and popular figures, with his pawky _ humor
and his utter fearlessness in speaking his
mind, even when he outraged the conven-
tions of party politics.
11. E. Sizer, chairman of the committee
which will draw up plans for spending the
£620,000 Commonwealth grant for unem-
ployment relief in Queensland, is the State s
Minister for Labor and Industry. Sizer
entered politics 14 years ago, when he outed
the sitting Labor member for Nundah. Fol-
lowing a reshuffle of seats he was elected
for Sandgate, and has continued to sit for
the constituency ever since. He hails from
Cambridge (Eng.), came to Bananaland
as a youth, and has been a journalist in the
city and country. Enlisting in 1914, he was
with the 9th Battalion at the Landing He
opposed the late Charley McDonald tor
Kennedy in the 1917 Federal elections, and,
though he didn’t win, he gave Charles a
H. E. SIZER, chairman of Queensland’s
new Unemployment Relief Committee.
hard tussle and cut. a large slice off lus
previous majority. Since the Moore Govern-
ment lias been in office he has done well
as: Minister in charge of local unemploy-
ment relief; especially valuable has been his
work in using the dole as a subsidy for
employment.
Stanley Seymour Argyle, who can hardly
fail to be Victoria’s next Premier, was born
65 years ago. He has been a doctor since
18 91__lie graduated at Melbourne Um.; a
politician (M.L.A. for Toorak) since 1920,
and a knight for a couple of years. In Ins
comparatively brief Parliamentary career he
lias thrice been Chief Secretary and Min-
ister of Health, and he was once Mayor ot
Kew. A lieutenant-colonel in the A.A.M.C.,
he served three years in the Great War. As
a Parliamentarian he has shown himself a
keen fighter, but seldom a bitter one.
Argyle’s dad was a Kyneton pioneer and
became a sort of local squire, ruling from
his castle (Rock House), just above the
Campaspe River. Stan’s elder brother*
Reggie, represented Kyneton and then Dal-
housie in the Assembly for 14 years and was
a Liberal whip.
OLIVER NICHOLSON, new chairman of
the Bank of New Zealand.
Recognising, doubtless, that nothing he cau
do or say is likely to affect the result of
the Vic. Assembly elections next Saturday,
Vic. Premier Hogan is “seeing London,”
with the Agent-General’s office as a postal
address and (occasionally) as a long-dis-
tance wireless-telephone booth. His recrea-
tions have included a ’busman’s holiday
listening to a House of Commons debate
and a Chamber of Commerce dinner. He is
still Premier, though he will very soon be
no more than a private member, unless, of
course, he joins a composite Ministry.
There is a great rush of people willing to
take Dr. Arthur’s safe Mosman seat in the
Assembly. Fifteen names were once on the
list, and probably a dozen will go for pre-
selection, including a couple of generals,
Lloyd and Rosenthal, and a couple of bar-
risters, Selwyn Betts and Adrian Curlewis.
Meantime the little doctor isn’t taking much
interest in the proceedings. A very sick
wisp, he has to keep to his bed most of the
time, though even there he labors away at a
settlement scheme he has in hand.
Lawrence Adamson, who is retiring at 70
after 30 years of headmastership of Wesley
College, Melbourne, made his. mark as a
successful and well-loved dominie. Adamson
is a Manxman, and was called to the Eng-
lish and Victorian Bars before he found his
life’s vocation. He held many distinctions,
and not all of them were academic, for he
took a keen interest in sports as well. He
was the first chairman of the Cricket Board
of control.
John Garlick, who was president of the
Main Roads Board before the Bavin Govern-
ment made him a Civic Commissioner to
help cleanse Town Hall affairs, will be
chairman of the council of five, which is to
decide how the Commonwealth grant of
£600,000 will be used to provide employ-
ment in N.S.W. Garlick, who is still in
the fifties, has done enough administrative
work for a dozen men in his time. He began
as a shorthand writer to the Vic. Supreme
Court; just before Federation he was secre-
tary of the Citizens’ Vigilance Committee
that bubonic plague called into being at
Sydney. He has been secretary to at least
a dozen Royal Commissions, draftsman of
numerous Acts dealing with local govern-
ment, land valuation, town-planning and
what not, and for a term he was lecturer
on local government at Sydney Uni.
Prof. Agar, F.R.S., was 50 last month.
Other Fellows of the Royal Society (Eng.)
in Melb. Uni. are Professors Orme Masson
(74), Lyle (72), Wood-Jones (53), Laby
(52) and Ewart (60). Prof. J. H. Michell,
of Melbourne, was elected F.R.S. 30 years
ago.
Two Adelaide veterans have been record-
making. Seth Ferry gave the Easter
Monday Oakbank race-meeting a miss. He is
now 90, and had never missed a meeting
since he helped to establish it, as a picnic
affair in a brewery paddock. Alfred
Vaughan has had a “diamond” wedding;
among his sons are Crawford and J. H.,
Premier and Attorney-General in a Labor
Ministry of a few years back.
Few suspected that R. J.
the Sydney barrister, who died on &un
da?, was nearly 80. He retained his vigoi
and all his faculties almost to the end. He
was best known as one ofN.S.W. smos
capable and judicial Crown Prosecutors, but
he also had a Common Law practace and
he acted several times as a District Cou
Judge. He was a near-relation of Eobcit
Browning, the poet, and had ll }® 0 ,
fashioned charm of manner of the type of
Englishmen that Oxford produced. 00 years
ago. He married into the Lamb farm y
had two sons: Cuthbert, whom he lost dm-
ing the war, and Humphrey, who was an
MC. with the 13th Battalion and is now
a Bathurst solicitor. He had been a mem
her of the Union Club for half a century.
The curtain was rung down on one of
the war’s grimmest tragedies when l'iivate
M. T. Ryan passed over at Caulfield (lie.)
Repat, Hospital the other day. R-yan wa
wounded at Bullecourt m 1915. He was a
cot case for 15 years, and underwent over
50 operations. His fortitude was marvellous.
A G. Leslie, dead in Sydney at 74, was
a man who saw more sides of life than most
and enjoyed them all. He was bom m
Liverpool, son of a barrister father who
took to theatrical management, ancl e
friends of his family included Macready
and Charles Reade. Apprenticed to a
local surgeon—there were no medica
degrees in the universities of his time
—the youngster went to sea as a sui
geon” on a sailing-ship with immigrants
for Australia, and later served m the same-
capacity on some of the famous .China tea-
clippers. The Westralian goldfields called
him much later, and in between was a term
of service with the Garrison Artillery, in-
expert medical microscopist, Leslie was tor
Some years in charge of the special hospita
at Kokopo, in Mandated New Guinea, for
malarial and kindred tropical diseases; he
was a fine musician withal, and well grounded
in the best English literature. He was for
years an occasional Bulletin , contributor
under the pen-name of “Topee.”
Randolph Bedford lost, another of his old
N-Q. mining mates when E. J. J. Rodda died
in the Malay Peninsula the other day.
American-born, Rodda was drawn this waj
by the Westralian goldfields, but Chillagoe
took him north, and his last job there was
to manage Bedford’s Isa Proprietary. When
that was taken over by Mt. Isa a syndicate
sent him mine-hunting in Asia, but he came
too late to do much good.
His opponent, A. H. a’Beekett, having
pulled out, Matt Bennett (C.P.) has been
re-elected unopposed to Vie. Assembly for
Gippsland West. A friendly, unassuming
chap, Bennett is better liked personally than
some of the more pushful and assertive mem-
bers of the Agrarian group. ITe is the
mildest-mannered politician Gippsland has
produced.
WALTER GURNER, chairman of Adelaide
Stock Exchange.
Alfred Trapnell, Melbourne’s oldest shoe-
black, has polished his last pair at S 3. His
beat for the last 20 years has been in
Spencer-street. He was an old R.N. man,
and served in the Abyssinian War under
Napier.
Captain Lancaster, who is charged with
the murder of a fellow-airman, Haden
Clarke, in a Miami (U.S.A.) bungalow, is
the English aviator who flew to Australia
in 1928 with the first woman to do the trip
by air. Mrs. Miller, then wife of a Mel-
bourne newspaper man, was liis companion
on the voyage. Later they toured Australia
lecturing, and afterwards went to America,
where Mrs. Miller became a first-class pilot
herself Mrs. Miller is a wiry little woman
who earned her fare from Melbourne to
England by selling vacuum-cleaners from
door to door. Lancaster is a daring flier, as
remarkable for his crashes as for his suc-
cessful flights.
General HIGGINS, first elected chief of the
Salvation Army, now visitng Australia.
Just-dead Charles Williams, secretary of
the Victorian Homes and Hospital for the
Aged and Infirm, left unusual instructions
in a letter to his executors which was to be
opened after his death. _ They stated that
no publicity was to be given to' his death or
the details of his career.
Father J. M. Murphy, S.J., rector of
Newman College, within the Melbourne Uni-
versity, has been co-opted to the Uni. coun-
cil in place of the Rev. F. W. Kermck, head
of Queen’s College, who resigned because ot
ill-health. Possessed of a personality which
usually gets him on agreeable .terms with
youth as well as with maturity, ratlu
Murphy should be an asset to the council.
After having drawn pension for 24 years
from Vic. Government for 4S years ser-
vice in the Law and Titles offices, Alfred
Wheatley passed out at Moonee Ponds last
week at 89. Volunteer soldier and keenly
interested in cricket and football, he got a
good deal out of life in his time.
Another Westralian Rhodes scholar has
become a K.C., following Attorney-General
Davy—Crown Solicitor Walker was the hist
recipient of Rhodes’s educational bounty in
the State. That was in 1904, when competi-
tion was at its keenest, and the selectors
made their choices from the public schools,
n.. 1. as they mostly do nowadays, from the
universities. Walker was a Perth High
(now Hale) School product, whose father
was a gymnastic instructor.
A big licht in Presbyterian circles was
extinguished by the death of Dr. Rutherford
Waddell, aged 82. His flair for literature
made his name known far beyond his church.
In the late ’eighties his exposure of sweating
conditions among seamstresses m Dunedin
led directly to the establishment of the Arbi-
tration Act in M.L., and when the Tailor-
csses’ Union was formed he was elected presi-
dent Dr. Waddell’s mother was a sister ot
Captain Mayne Reid, the novelist.
Jack Virgo, now living in Kent (Eng.),
probably the greatest leader the Y.M.C.A.
has ever had, was 67 the other day. Born
in S Aus., he was the association’s secretary
at Adelaide for 14 years, national sec. for
Australasia for three years, and sec. at
Sydney for eight years. Then he was called
to London to direct the movement at head-
quarters. For his war work—he visited all
the war fronts and addressed over two mil-
lion men—he was decorated with a C.8.L.,
declining a knighthood. He has made nine
world tours on behalf 0 f his beloved organ-
isation.
Readers of Sir J. G. Frazer’s immense
study of comparative religion, “The Golden
Bough,” have often wondered where the
Oxford professor got the enormous mass of
evidence on which he founded his great
analysis. A recent publication of the Oxford
Press, “Spencer’s Scientific Correspondence
with Sir J. G. Frazer and Others,’ reveals
that not the least important part was gar-
nered from letters written to him by the dis-
tinguished Melbourne savant who' died in
harness on Ticrra del Fuego a couple ot
years ago. Most of the communications
came from Central Australia when Baldwin
Spencer and that brilliant S. Australian
anthropologist Gillen were living with the
Arunta tribe.


sadf
Qt BAH K
The dependability of THE BANK OF AUSTRAL-
ASIA has been demonstrated in every kind of
economic weather for nearly a century, reflecting
its ample resources and reserves and a well-
informed management.
The Bank functions through a network of Branches
in London, Australia and New Zealand, and a
system of Agents and Correspondents in all parts
of the world, whereby exceptional facilities are
offered for all classes of banking business.
/AUSTRALASIA
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
/>>
*‘4 \
iVi/fv, *
niS
Vs'
m
I^#
i
1835
sadf
1932
Paid-up Capital . . £4,500,000
Reserve Fund (used
in the business ot
the Bank) 2,475,000
Currency Reserve
(used in the busi-
ness of the Bank) 2,000,000
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors Under
the Charter .... 4,500,000
£13,475,000
HEAD OFFICE IN AUSTRALASIA:
394-96 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Superintendent: George D. Healy.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Replacement
\ ear and De-
eded preciation
March, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ cC ,C
1921 .. 781,418 495,625 1,375,029 1,517,130
Capital returned, £1,625,000.
Cash bonus, £203,125.
1922 .. 665,190 446,875 1,593,344 1,585,874
[ 498,590 325,000 ? ?
I Fiji and M.L. co. in process of liquidation;
J no accounts issued, and profits and reserves
1 not disclosed. Capital returned, £1,625,000.
I Cash bonus to shareholders from Fiji
V liquidation, £325.000.
[ Reserves capitalised, £650,000
1924 1 Reserves capitalised, £1,625,000
l 673,639 446,875 1,153,480 1,140,177
1925 .. 760,653 548,437 1,365,696 1,305,857
1926 .. 800,732 609,375 1,557,053 1,404,175
1927 .. 832,797 609,375 1,780,475 1,494,052
Reserves capitalised, £975,000.. 805,475
1928 .. 966,628 731,250 1,040,853 1,723,421
1929 .. 976,306 731,250 1,285,909 1,958,609
1930 .. 910,829 731,250 , 1,465,488 2,189,884
1931 .. 734,823 731,250 1,469,061 2,395,141
1932 .. 744,312 731,250 1,482,123 2,678,937
Doubt. < f the future sent this co.’s £2O
shares toppling from £5B to £3O in the market
during the 12 mouths to September, 1930.
The figure recovered to £39 a year ago, fol-
lowing renewal of the sugar embargo without
disturbing local refining and handling
charges, etc. It advanced to £46 12s. 6d. in
Feb., but was back to £4l ss. at last week-
end, due to the disappearance of buyers from
the Sydney market as the result of the dis-
tressing state of public affairs in N. S. Wales.
The return at £4l ss. is a shade over 6 p.c.
mi the p.c. distribution, 24 p.c. of which
is labelled bonus.
That the co. has been able to maintain
124 p.c. is due, amongst other things,
mainly to its contract with the Queens-
land Government, and to the severe writ-
ing down of the book values out of
earnings, especially during the years of
high world prices, when the Fiji section
of the business contributed largely to the
surpluses; thus enabling a high rate of divi-
dend to be paid from a moderate return on
actuaj capital invested. Under the con-
tract with the Queensland Government the
co. is allowed £1 13s. 7d. a ton for refining
(205.), selling (75.) and financing (6s. 7d.)
the State’s crop. This accounts for most of
the co.’s Australian profits, which were de-
clared at £531.120 for the year to Sept. 30,
1929—the source of earnings has not since
been disclosed in the sheet.
Variations in earnings are due chiefly to
fluctuations in seasonal and world market
conditions, which affect returns from milling
and growing, especially in Fiji, where the
out-turn of raws last year was below the
average. Rut they exceeded estimates from
the co.’s Australian mill; and the board wrote
net profit for the 12 months to the end of
March £9489 better than the previous year’s
12.7 p.c. on the £5,850.000 of share capital.
That was after £283,796 had been dropped
into the depreciation fund. etc., raising it
to £2,6(8,937, which the “Wild Cat” believes
is mostly genuine profit.
Finances are snug, as they always have
been :
Refineries—Australia and Maoriland .. £2,980,600
Sugar mills and plant, etc.—
Commonwealth . . .. ... 2,375 723
Fiji (less , £1,625,000 reserve);.. 1*849^525
Ocean steamers .. .. . 100 000
Distillery ; !! 125i265
Office premises . . . . . . . . 56,011
Stocks and some book debts .. .. 2,589,654
Other book debts, investments, etc. .. 1,822^922
Cash, deposits, etc. .. . . . . 3,684,458
r . ...... £15,084,158
Liabilities—
Sundry creditors .'. £1,488,483
Suspense accounts . . 3,037,330
Final div., 1931 . . 365,625
4,891,438
£10,192,720
Allowing for the final div., the year’s im-
provement in the net asset position was
£282.816. But what catches the eye is the
fine store of liquids :
Mar.,’27. Mar.,’3l. Mar.,’32.
Liquid assets . . £6,031,381 £7,829,766 £8,097,034
Liabilities.. .. 4;i42,304 4,714,543 4,525,813
Liquid surplus .. £1,889,077 £3,115,223 £3,571,221
Thus, notwithstanding the erection of a
new refinery at Perth, shareholders arc
£4,682,144 better off than they were five
years ago. Moreover, the suspense accounts,
included with liabilities in the table, are
largely provision for contingencies.
Payments to the co. for refining and sell-
ing (financing was not undertaken till 1923)
have been unchanged since 1915, when
the Commonwealth Government first took
control of the industry and the retail
Price of sugar was 3d. per pound. Thy
co.’s refining charge (less than |d. per
pound) is claimed to be amongst the lowest
in the world. But what the future holds it
is impossible to say. Locally the price of
sugar comes up for review again in 1933,
and maintenance of the present selling pric<‘,
which is an important factor in the cost of
living, certainly cannot be depended upon.
Burns, Philo and Co., Ltd.
at , _ To Re- Re-
Mai ch, 1 refits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 132,274 10 p.c.= 125,000 7,274 674,681
1922'.. 194,71 S 10 „ „ 125,000 69.718 744,399
Written off steamships, £25,000.. 719,899
1923.. 192,242 10 p.c.= 125,000 67,242 786,641
Written off steamships, £25,000.. 761,641
1924.. 182,357 10 p.c.= 125,000 57,357 818,998
1925.. 190,155 10 „ „ 125,000 65,155 884,153
1926.. 198,688 10 „ „ 125.000 73,688 957,841
192/.. 213,297 10 ~ „ 137,500 75,797 1,033,638
1928.. 243,485 10 „ ~150,000 93,485 1,127,123
1929.. 244,381 10 ~ „ 150,000 94,381 1,221,504
1930.. 247,946 10 ~ ~ 150,000 97,946 1,319 450
1931.. 241,675 10 ~ ~ 150,000 91,675 1,411’,125
1932.. 185,973 10 „ „ 150,000 35,973 1,447,09 S
The co.’s shipping, merchandising and lend-
ing interests spread all over Australia, out
over the Pacific Islands and north to Java
and elsewhere. During the 12 months to
the end of March takings from all sections
kept on shrinking—the price of copra, upon
which the state of Island trade largely de-
pends, dropped to £lO, ss. per ton, the
lowest on record—and less was received
from the subsidiaries. Burns Philp (South
Sea), which took over part of the parent’s
business in 1920 for a half-million in scrip,
dropped its distribution from 7-J p.c. to 5|
p.c.; Queensland Insurance, of whose
£500,000 of capital 8., P. and Co. owns
nearly half, paid 10 p.c. as against 121 p.c.
for the 16 years to Sept. 30, 1929.
Gross earnings from all sources (£700,915)
fell away £72,255. Exes. (£392,761) were
got back £11,931, despite extra taxa-
tion, and the. amount struck off for
depreciation and other contingencies
(£105,747) was £35,518 lighter; so the
shrinkage in the net p. and 1. figure
(£202,407) was £24,806. But the insurance
and other reserves (now £485,802) were re-
duced by £16,434 net, which may have some
connection with the loss of the Malabar, early
in the term. Still, after taking this reduc-
tion into the reckoning, the.year’s net result
was 12.3 p.c. on capital as against 16.1, 16.3,
1 16.2, 15.5, 15.9 and 15.2 p.c. back to
IJ2o, so the 10 p.c. div. was repeated with-
out any difficulty. And so far as can be
seen, which is not very far these days, there
is nothing to suggest that the 10 p.c. is likely
to be interrupted. There are indications that
business in the merchandising section will
improve, the chairman says, and plans for
another passenger and cargo motor vessel for
the co.’s island service are being prepared.
Moreover, the business rests on very solid
foundations, laid by the far-sighted James
Burns as far back as the sixties of last cen-
tury. When he died eight years ago his suc-
cessors inherited the old policy, part of
which was to provide liberally for contin-
gencies during the fat years, and keep a
tight hold upon outgoings. Since 1920 no
less than £1,433,374 lias been openly struck
off for depreciation, etc. Also, visible accu-
mulations were heaped to within £52,902 of
paid capital at March 31; thus the two com-
bined need net only 5.04 p.c. to show 10 p.c.
on capital.
The way the business keeps on expanding,
despite dull times, this comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows: —
1915. 1925. 1931. 1932.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,000,000 1,250,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities.. 261,095 1,361,444 1,328,171 1,592,296
P r o perties,
shipping, in-
v e stments,
etc. . . 575,790 2,030,836 2,702,560 2,934,549
Stocks, ■ ad-
vances, etc. 573,147 683,968 572,410 658,583
Book debts 382,624 781,838 912,562 891,380
Cash .. 47,018 123,955 126,764 129,882
During the year the board went outside for
an extra £264,125, and £231,989 was added
to the book value, of properties, shipping and
investments. The stocks item was increased
by £86,173, and debtors’ balances were
reduced by £21,182. Visibly the more or
less liquid surplus (£87,549, including stocks)
was £196,016 lighter than at the previous
balance; but the real position is obscured
by the lumping of investments with 'fixed
assets. The Macdhui, the new motor vessel
which took up the running in the New
Guinea service in May last, is reported to
be giving satisfaction.
The pound shares, which had fallen to 345.
in the market a couple of years ago, are now
priced at 40s. The return at 40s. is 5 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The backing is
395. 3d. in net tangibles.
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Feb., 1922. .21,718 124 p.c. = 15,750 5,968 33,549
Aug., 1922..21,298 121 ~ „ 15.750 5,548 39,097
Feb., 1923.-21,643 121 „ „ 15,750 5,893 44,990
Aug., 1923..22,398 121 „ „ 15,750 6,648 51,638
Feb., ]924. .22,619 121 „ ~ 15,750 6.869 58,507
Aug., 1924. .22,694 121 „ „ 15.750 6,944 65,451
Feb;, 1925. .23,207 121 „ ~ 15,750 7,457 72,908
Aug., 1925..25,291 121 „ „ 15,750 9,541 82,449
Feb,, 1926. .25,347 121 „ ~ 15,750 9,597 92,046
Aug.-, 1926..28,446 15 ~ „ 18,900 9,546 101,592
Feb., 1927. .28,316 121 „ ~15,750 12,566 114,158
Aug-., 1927..25,37S 121 „ „ 15,750 12,628 126,786
Profit on sale of property, £52,671 .. 179,457
Feb., 1928. .28,947 25 p.c. = 31,500 176,904
Aug.. 1928..26,918 121 „ „ 15,750 11,168 188,072
Profit on sale of propcrtv, £8665 . . 196,737
Feb., 1929.-28,503 121 p.e. = 15,750 n 9n - , Qn
Staff fund, £2OOO .. {10,753 20/,490
July, 1929. .24,071 221 p.c. = 28,350 203,211
Jan., 1930..29,016 15 „ „ 18,900'( 01lr 019197
Staff fund. £lOOO .. 212,32/
July, 1930..22,285 121 p.c. = 15,750 .6,535 218,862
Jan., 1931 . .21,437 121 ~ ~ 15,750. 5,687 224,549
Profit on resumed property, £2086 . . 226,635
July, 1931.-16,468 9 p.c. = 11,340 5,128 231,763
.Tail., 1932..19,491 9 „ „ 11,340 8,151 239,914
This co. runs a chain of drug stores, manu-
factures much of its own requirements and
buys largely on a wholesale basis. During
the 12 months to the close of last accounts
prices eased, turnover shrank, taxation
became onerous, and the return from Gov-
ernment securities and mortgages—over half
the co.’s funds are invested under these two
heads —was 224 p.c. lighter for the six
months to the end of January. Excluding a
profit of £2086 on resumption of one of the
freeholds, the year’s net result (£35,950)
fell away £7763, making the slip £16,127
over the last two years. Still, there was
enough to show 14.2 p.c. on capital com-
pared with 17.3, 22.9. 22. 22.7. 22.5, 20.1 and
18.2 p.c. back to 1925, but 31. points were
knocked off the div., reducing it to 9 p.c.
Eor 12 years to the end of Jan., 1931. it
was steady at 121 p.c., sweetened at inter-
vals with cash .bonuses, which raised the
average distribution to 15 p.c.
Business improved during the second half
and profit, was £3023 better than for the
first half. But threats of punitive legisla-
tion and the shocking political position
are delaying the revival of business
and darkening the outlook. However,
the co. is so well ribbed financially that it
could return most of its capital should the
need arise. Indeed, some shareholders con-
sidered that the board has delayed too long
the distribution of at least some of the sweets
in the cupboard. ■
Though several new shops have been
opened, the board has not been able to find
profitable employment for all the surplus
earnings in the business of recent years. So
far as can be' seen the spare money has been
invested mainly in Government securities:—
Feb., .Tan., ’ Jan., Jan.,
1921. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £252,000 £252,000 £252,006 £252,000
Sundry creditors,
etc. . . 34,684 50,253 37,222 . 46,914
Premises, stocks,
plant, etc.. . 282,8.19 181,157 169,955 141,832
Debtors, etc... 10,445 166,741 159,185 149,275
Govt, securities 14,709. 175,170 177,170 203,921
Cash, etc.. 17,986 20,782 28,584 47,906
Shares in other
cos. • .. 9,308 3,630 13,628 21,234
The year’s. contraction ,of £28,123 in the
premises item, etc., is apparently on
account of the resumption above re-
ferred to. Together with surplus earn-
ings, a growth of £9692 in the amount
coming to sundry creditors and a reduction
of £9910 in debtors’ balances, etc., it enabled
£26,751 to be added to Government securities.
£24,322 to the cash holding and £7606 to
shares and advances in other cos. ; these
shares, etc., include the co.’s holding in Soul-
Pattinson (Laboratories), Ltd., which was re-
gistered in September, 1930, with a nominal
capital of £lO,OOO, and in Soul-Pattinson
(Newcastle), Ltd. When the books last
closed outside liabilities were more than
three times covered by debtors’ balances
alone. Cash and Government securities (at
cost) together totalled £251,827, equal to
19s. lid. per share.
At 41s. 6d. the pound shares return 4.4
p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. The backing is
395. in net tangibles.
Northcote Brick Co., Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
'•...£ £ £ £
1922.. 17,575 8J p.e. = 11,250 6325 13,622
1923.. 27,254 14£ „ „ 18,750 8504 22,126
Bonus from holdings, £16,470 .. .; 37,596
1924.. 22,821 14 ; } p.e. = 18,750 4071 41,667
Reserves capitalised, £18,750 .. .. 22,917
Bonus from holdings, £9646 .. .. 32,563
1925.. 15,082 10 p.c. = 15,000 82 32,645
1926.. 20,835 124 „„ 18,750 2085 34,730
1927.. 24,658 124 „ „ 18,750 5908 40,638
1928.. 16,891 10 „ „ 15,000 1891 42,529
Bonus from holdings, £5460 .. .. 47,989
1929.. 16,985 10 p.c. = 15,000 1985 49,974
1930.. 13,198 10 „ „ 15,000 48,172
: Loss.
1931.7 1,858 24 „ ~. 3,750 42,564
1932. . 2.530 Nil - 40,034
During the 10 flush years to 1930 share-
holders averaged 10.9 p.e., with a 2s. capital
bonus in ; 1924. But suburban home-building,
upon which this co. depends rather than on
city jobs, practically ceased during 19.°,1.
Things improved slightly towards the close of
accounts, but for the year to the end of March
last a manufacturing loss of £1278 exceeded
other income by £lO5, whereas a gross profit
of £2077 showed up in 1931. Administra-
tion costs (£2425) were cut back £l5lO, but
the final loss (£2530) was £072 heavier. Re-
serves, now £40,034, include £30,576 of bonus
scrip received from holdings in other cos.
since 1923, thus bringing the book value of
the investments up to £41.821. These hold-
ings, apparently in a. kindred trade, have
turned in nothing over the past two years.
Finances remain comfortable :
1923. 1927. 1931. 1032.
Paid capital. . £ 131.2.V0 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities . 2,949 4,823 1,602 943
Freeholds . . 101,981 88,230 88,582 88,098
Plant, etc. .. 31,122 34,725 35,583 35,566
Stocks .. 4,047 2,447 1,337 1,118
Book debts.. 3,884 11,861 6,989 5.095
Shares other cos. 11,345 36,361 41,821 41,821
Cash, etc. .. 15,196 33,060 19,853 19,285
Excluding shares, the more or less liquid
surplus (£24,550, with stocks) slipped £2027
last, year. Though plant has been kept effi-
cient and adequate, only £4444 has been
added to its book value since 1923. Free-
holds (£88,098) are partly a letting proposi-
tion ; lately they have turned in very little.
Owing partly to the flight of capital from
N. S. Wales, which makes money conditions
easier in Victoria, where lower nominal
wages prevail, there has been a recovery in
building activity in the southern State dur-
ing the past six months. Northcote’s direc-
tors look for a better experience during the
current year.
Net tangibles, equal to 255. 4d. (book
value) per share, mostly represent fixed
assets or shares, worth what they can be
made to earn. The market prices the scrip
at 12s.
Kempthorne, Prosser (M.L.)
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends.' ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1922.. 32,921 8 p.c. = 31,828 - 1,093 108,402
1923.. 37,100 9 „ ~ 35,997 1,103 109 505
1924.. 42,376 10 ~ „ 40,000 2,376 lll’ssi
1925.. 47,371 10 ~ „ 40,000 —, 7,371 119’252
Premiums on new shares . . 32,500 151 759
1926.. 54,924 10 p.c. = 41,974 ( - “
Staff provident fund, £5OOO ) /,9o ° 109,(0^
1927.. 57.134 10 p.c. = 48,299 ( - 1f! » ~
Staff provident fund, £lOOO ) *’- 66 167,537
1928.. 56,642 10 p.c. = 52,638 (
Staff provident fund, £3OOO J !>°o4 168,,>41
1929.. 72,810 10 p.c. = 52,974 —\
Staff provident fund, £3500 ) Jb ’ ddf> 184 > 877
Reserves capitalised, £53,000 .; 131,877
1930.. 71,910 10 p.c. = 58,295 n - 141 99 o
Staff provident fund, £3500 ) ’ ’
1931.. 62,769 10 p.c. = 58,300 ( .
Staff provident fund, £3OOO )
1932.. 49,002 7J p.c. =43,725 -—( 2,827 146,288
Staff provident fund, £2500 )
Besides building up a big drug-making and
importing business, the co. has also
developed a large fertiliser trade throughout
the Dominion —it operates four fertiliser
works, four drug warehouses and a phar-
maceutical factory. For a time, owing to
keen competition and price-cutting, the co.
did not get much out of its super. But. dif-
ferences in the trade were patched up about
four years ago, the eo.’s earnings benefited
and the 10 p.c. div. looked steady.
But slump cut into takings, and it has
not been possible to' get overhead back in
proportion to the drop in gross earnings:—
Gross Profits. Expenses.
1920 ..£139,909 £100,098 71.5 p.e.
1925 . . 147,344 99,985 67.8 „
1929 . . 199,318 126,522 63.4 „
1930 . . 202,679 130,770 64.5 „
1931 . . 177,996 115,227 64.7 „
1932 . . 145,388 96,336 66.2 „
For the last 12 months the net result was
thus 8.4 p.c. on capital as against 10.7 p.c.
and 12.3 p.c. for the two preceding years. So
21 points were knocked off the div., reducing
it to 7i p.c. The drug section, in which
much of the stock is imported, appears
to have suffered most, though the spring-
in exchange .and the tariff also added to the
cost of sulphur and nitrate of soda, both
of Which are used extensively in the pro-
duction of super. But the Government sub-
sidy of 11s. per ton, granted to manufac-
turers of super, in October, helped, and
sales improved toward the close of accounts.
The current year’s result will partly depend
upon renewal of the subsidy, which expires
in June, and partly upon the extent to which
overhead can be further reduced. The need
for top-dressing pastures was never greater ;
but, though this is admitted, the outlook
generally remains obscure.
Balance-sheet movements are encourag-
ing :
1920. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Capital . . £367,140 £583,000 £583,000 £583,000
Liabilities . . 76,650 252,463 166,425 157,327
Factories, etc. 140,114 466,943 452,305 431,767
Stock.. .. 188,874 373,891 302,107 295,222
Book debts . . 105,283 172,094 135,514 146,015
Cash, etc. .. 133,976 38,025 39,429
Thus the book value of plant was £20,538
(Continued on page 16.)


MMP: .ss&oocc -^-
Bv£S^: v *
-o^
-** f?-^!feX!fe^SS^S3Sfe
OVER 3 MILLION MILES TO DAY
m
a
II
Mobiloil
standi up
>v
m
ft
Plume
too
m
or
VACUUM OH COMPANY PTV LTD.
In Australia the total
daily mileage by motor
vehicles on MOBILOIL
exceeds 3 million.
Mobiloil is the most pop-
ular oil in Australia, as
it is throughout the
World, because of its
performance in hard,
every-day service • • •
Mobiloil is the one oil
that always stands up.


rrfmvf tt n , y ° u an 3dca ' vorth Patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos Htouse, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
tain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Ideas—Commonwealth and Foreign patents
Obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collisok, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt
* * *' *
Hydraulic Power, Electric ahd Hydraulic Lifts
m ( lnco , r P°rated by Act of Parliament, 1888),
h +’ °J? c 1 r3e and general engineers, lift
pecrahsts. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
a ” d ° th f. r machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 1930-31
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores «n„ ’
Gold and Silver Bullion, Copper Ores, Copp„PrSjSateTScraVcSr' 0n *
and of all materials containing any of these metals PP ’
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Copper, “BSA” brand o,Copper 5n.p1,,,,
Purchase to™ and belledj,po„ application to any
Sidney CMce^f U M "“ 1 “ 1 ~, a.
Telearnplilc Address, “Erntype," Sydney, Melbourne of Tort Kembla*
Pn?*R >Ml k? E ‘“I?” * oM by p ,? st (iPiuned) to either our Sydney or
Port Kembla offi , cc Tl l e company will realise it on your account at current
“ct P ;he e G±Vou C n h ““ e ' “ d Wi " - -«« you'
Your Altered
Financial Position
will probably necessitate your making a new will. If so, appoint
/i Executor and Trustee, Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), a corporate body which has had forty-five years’
experience m the administration of Estates and which can never
die or leave the country. Write or call for free explanatory
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director.
H. V. Douglass, Manager.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Buy Standardised
Belting
There’s a Pioneer Leather Belt
to suit every type of drive.
W HEN you specify Pioneer Leather
Belting you are sure to get depend-
ability, plus extra years of service.
Every Pioneer Leather Belt is made to
a definite standard of thickness from the
best quality belt leather, and carries
our replacement guarantee should
defects in quality of material or work-
manship develop
If you have a belting problem our
experts will advise you without obli-
gation.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING.
Manufactured since 1858 by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LiMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney; and
20-20 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
lighter than at the previous balance, not-
withstanding additions to the northern
works. The growth in debtors' balances
reflects the better demand for super, toward
the close of accounts. At the end of
January the more or less liquid surplus
(£323,339, including stocks) was £14,118
stronger that it was a year earlier. Full
allowance is said to have been made for
bad and doubtful debts.
The market prices the fully-paid £2 shares
at 475. as against 60s. a year ago. The
return at 475. is 6.2 p.c. on a 74 p.c. div.
basis. The backing is 50s. in net tangibles.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd. (Sydney)
The managing director of Caldwell's
Wines, Ltd., complains that, whereas the co.’s
balance-sheet as at Dec. 31, 1931, showed a
net profit of £228 for the year, and, includ-
ing the p. and 1. balance, reserves totalling
£64,834, the “Wild Cat” (B. 4/5/’32) said
there was a loss of £2091 and a deficit of
£21,652. The deficit, of course, was in re-
spect. of net tangibles.
To begin with, what is net profit? In 1910
Fletcher Moulton, L.J., in the English Court
of Appeal, laid down the legal interpreta-
tion of the expression in this way: “If the
total assets of the business at two dates be
compared, the increase which they show at
the later date as compared with the earlier
date (due allowance, of course, being made
for any capital introduced into or taken
out of. the business in the meantime) repre-
sents in strictness the profits of the business
during the period in question.” In course of
the same judgment he also said; “In the
absence of special stipulations to the con-
trary, ‘profits’ in cases where the rights of
third parties come in mean actual profits,
and they must be calculated as closely as
possible in accordance with the fundamental
conception or definition to which I have
referred.”
According to its published accounts, the
aggregate book value of Caldwell’s assets at
Dec. 31, 1931, exceeded the share and bor-
rowed capital combined by £64,834. A year
earlier the excess was £66,990, leaving an
apparent loss of £2156. But £65 of this was
on account of trade-marks, etc., which dis-
appeared from the sheet without explana-
tion, thus reducing the net loss to £2091. The
difference between that figure and the result
claimed by the board is the amount of tax-
ation paid in respect of the previous year’s
trading. The difference arises because in
the co.’s published balance-sheet nothing is
specifically reserved out of each year’s earn-
ings to provide for taxation. ’ Thus the
profit claimed by the board is overstated
to the extent of the amount of the tax bill,
which is deducted from the p. and 1. balance
brought forward in the next year’s accounts.
As for reserves, their existence depends
entirely on the value placed upon tlia assets
in the sheet. Consequently, a reserve may
be wholly or in part a paper one, which
should not be taken into account in esti-
mating the financial position of a concern.
( See Spicer and Pegler—-recognised authori-
ties on this subject.) The directors in their
report for the year ended Dec. 31, 1931,
say:—•
With the general fall in values of all properties
and assets, the co. must face a reduction in values
of its large holdings in freehold and leasehold licensed
premises, and attention is drawn to the decision of
your directors to collate all reserves held into an
assets revaluation account in the balance-sheet, with
the object in the near future, when values become
stabilised, of utilising this reserve for the revalua-
tion of the co.’s assets.
The reserve thus created appeared in the
sheet at £56,486; in addition there was the
p. and 1. balance (£8348) ; together £64,834.
A further £5OOO was also to be transferred
to the specific reserve, raising it to £61,486,
and reducing the p. and 1. figure to £3348.
In reckoning the net tangible position this
revaluation reserve must be either wholly
included or wholly excluded from the figur-
ing. At the moment the directors themselves
cannot say definitely whether all or only
Part of it will be ultimately required. There-
fore, the “Wild Cat” excluded it. Further,
since the reserve was created for the specific
purpose of providing for reduction in value
of freehold and licensed properties, the “Wild
Cat” did not use it as an offset against the
co.’s very extensive goodwill, which is given
a value of £25,000 in the books. Thus the
final p. and 1. balance (£3348) less goodwill
gives a deficit of £21,652. If the revaluation
reserve is intended to cover goodwill as well
as the other assets mentioned—and the man-
aging director now says it is—then the co.’s
free reserves at Dec. 31, 1931, amounted to
£3348. That figure is subject to last year’s
taxation, and, of course, to whatever may
ultimately remain of the revaluation reserve,
if anything.
Aluminia Manufacturing Co., Ltd.,, is on
the stocks in Melbourne. Nominal capital
is £150,000 in £1 shares, of which 70,000
are offered, 50,000 paids go to the vendors,
Aluminia Manufacturing Pty. (in liq.),
10,000 paids to the promoters and 20,000
shares are in pickle. The co. proposes to put up
a factory to manufacture mill-white paint,
plate powder, etc., on a 73-acre lease near
Beauty Point (Tas.). The property is esti-
mated to contain 1,250,000 tons of white
material, assaying 61.1 p.c. silica and 24.6 p.c.
aluminia. On an output of 10 tons of mill-
white per week, a net profit of £16,000 p.a.,
equal to 12.3 p.c. on a capital of £130,000 is
spoken of. Actual results, of _ course, will
depend in the first place upon sales, and
competition threatens to be keen. Broker-
age is fixed at 10 p.c., and other prelimi-
naries are expected to make off with £350.
On the board are Dr. A. M. Hill, F. A.
Boyd and T. H. Clarke.
Newcastle Wallsend Coal, which' owns
V all , ;l dozen pits on the northern N. S.
\\ ales field, chief of which are Pelton and
ailsend, paid an average of 10.7 p.c, on
its £2u0,000 of capital for the 10 flush
■ vc; “'' s ,4'> the end of 1928; and its fully-
paid ±lO shares rose to a premium of over
oO p.c. in the market. Last week £3 was
the best offer. \\ hen work was resumed
in June, 1930, after 15 months’ stoppage,
the industry found that most of its export
and much of its home trade had vanished,
leaving it overmanned and overcapitalised.
Ihus prices had to be cut to secure orders,
while costs remained rigid. Including an
m^«oA ed . a^diti^ n of £1626 t 0 reserves
(£l<7,S<>o at Dec. 31), the co. netted £2711
last year; no div. was paid. At the
moment the future of the industry is very
uncertain. If placed on the Statute Book
in its present form, the coal bill now before
i arliament threatens to make a present of
most of the trade in N. S. Wales to pro-
ducers outside the State. At the end of Dec
the co. s more or less liquids totalled £83,018.
I here was £5439 coming t 0 outsiders. Thus
the market disregards the book value of the
mine, plant, etc. J £3so,251) altogether.
Barrier’: Remarkable metallurgical im-
provements have been made at Broken Hill
during the last few years. Judged on treat-
ment methods, grade of concentrates and
recoveries, the field is one of the foremost
world. Its position has been made
possible because of systeihatic and exten-
sive lesearch work carried on by the cos
which regularly send officials overseas to
pick up new ideas. At the end of 1927 the
fSL Vnn P roduei ?g lead concentrates
<aj mg 60.6 p.c. lead and 8.3 p.c. zinc, and
zinc concentrates carrying 48.7 p.c. zinc and
,'.o p.c. lead. lor March, 3932, the lead
concentrates rdse to 74.3 p.c. lead, with
the zinc cut down to 4.1 p.c., and the zinc
concentrates to 52.2 p.c., with only 1.6 p.c
S!L I<,f : v’ 1 vl em Vi Slmilar results have been
achieved by Zinc Corp. and the South. Thus
not only have freights p6r unit of metal
been reduced, but at Port Pirie, where the
ar « heated, less slag is made, less
netal lost in slag, better smelting con-
ditions obtained and there is less chance of
/ml. r is T n -- , In addition, at Risdon
(las.), where the zinc concentrates are
leached, the higher grade of the material
means savings.
jt- .j.
Reopening 0 f the Central at Broken Hill
besides giving employment to some 500 men
and circulating about £5OOO a fortnight in
the town, should improve the position of
SfmSwf vf riC (S - A -> and Cockle
Creek (N.S.M.). -Most of the stuff goes to
ue, but about 400 tons of concentrates
are now railed to Cockle Creek each week. '
£
Geological Survey section of the
Mines Department, N. S. Wales, says that
freouentlv W f Ck ’a eVll ’ S ™ eUinff substance is
tiequently found oozing through porous
annto’ • p ™/: tlcally all over Australia! On
ta n kin i 8 ? att £ r has been found t 0 con-
tam animal phosphorus and nitrogen, which
orktof mf° nd doul & that jt is of animal
annliea ? he * aame , dung-bitumen” has been
applied to thisi substance, which is in no
way associated with mineral oil.
Mount Coolon Gold Mines (N.Q.) an off-
shoot of Gold Mines of Australia, an“ 0.,e
of the most promising developments of re-
cent years, is well up to schedule with the
erection of its 200-tons-per-day mill. Crush-
wh S en S rZ PeCted \ St ? Vt eav /™ September,
™ ll men will be employed. A simple
tW < ? hcap m , etbod of treatment, similar 1 to
that in use at Sons of Gwalia (W.A ) is to
be used. The ore, which is free from sul-
pliidos, will be broken in jaw and Symons
crushers, finely ground in two Ruwolt ball
mills and cyanided. There is plenty of water
in the new dam. Underground development
is now being carried out on the 100 and
300 feet levels. On starting up its plant,
the co. will be able to draw upon the experi-
ence of Westralian and other metallurgists
attached to the staffs of concerns interested
in the venture. This ought to mean much
so far as initial and other difficulties are
concerned.
* * »
At Trekelano, near Cloncurry (Q.), about
120 tons of rich copper ore is being mined
weekly. On the OOOft. level a bonanza
slope, 30ft. wide, carries ore assaying over
12 p.c. copper. Driving on the 600 ft. level
is being continued, and the 500 ft. level is
being cleaned up preparatory to stoping.
For March, 600 tons was dispatched to
Ohillagoe State Smelters. About 30 men
are employed.
“Ben Warm”: A few head of stampers
WiH shortly be in operation on the Lolworth
field (N.Q.), where a wide area has been
opened up. There will then be no need to
pick the stone sent to crushing, and results
should give a more reliable indication of
the value of the field. It cannot be expected
to live up to the 540 z. per ton obtained fiw
recent parcels.
Alf Belfield recently floated into the Sepik
out of the Yellow River, where he and his
party had been prospecting for six months.
They got a few ounces, but had to cover an
enormous area for it. The country, he says,
is “good for gold,” but the formations are
covered up and costs are high. Natives who
had not contacted with whites were friendly
and helpful. Belfield is one of the pioneers
of Papua. He is deaf and nearly 70; still
he loves to be out over the frontier.
'** * *
After examination of the driving already
carried out, Id. G. Banks says that the
mineral zone at Ivupei, Bougainville, ex-
tends horizontally and in depth. The new
drive on the 120 ft. level is expected to cut
the ore-body at a further 73ft. Some pro-
mising- areas near by are to be examined.
* * * *
Alluvial gold from Central Australia is
filtering in to Alice Springs. Allan David-
son’s line is attracting a lot of attention ; but
tor most of the year it is waterless, though
just now it is too wet. A month ago A. ,1.
Beckett had to walk 70 miles for water to
save the lives of his mate and himself; yet
a few days ago he and others were bogged on
the same track. One of Davidson’s discov-
eries in 1900, _ a lode 40ft. wide, skirting
the granites, is being prospected, and is
said to be worth about Sdwt. Davidson
found gold in many places, but neither he
nor Ins followers could stay to prospect. A
few wells, sunk by the Government in selected
spots, might lead to opening up a new field.
Wiluna (W.A.) is bucked about recent
ore exposures at and above the 625 ft. level,
and the capacity of the co.’s treatment
ls to be increased from 27,000 to
40,000 tons monthly. It will probably take
until the end of the year to reach the higher
figure. Profits for the last six months
aggregate approximately £130,000 in Aus-
tralian currency. Incidentally, Minerals
Separation Go. has reminded Wiluna that
it is using an extraction process on which
royalty should be paid, and negotiations are
proceeding between the two.
* * * *
flev el opmonc on the X lode at the
1650 and 1800 feet levels, Great Boulder
(W.A.) has found the ore patchy, and has
not struck any of the rich alluvial bunches
that were occasionally met by the Boulder
Perseverance, which worked the lode between
the 900 and 1100 feet levels. Great Boulder
has got permission from Lake View to ex-
plore the lodes at the north end of the
Ivanhoe. _ These are said to be promising-
and persistent. The company recently in-
stalled a new 20-drill compressor, and plans
for a diamond-drilling campaign are in
hand. The co. needs ore to bring its mill
to capacity, and looks like getting it.
# }•;
To hasten development North Kalgurli
has erected a new hoist at its main shaft
and has re-erected the old one at the Union’
Jack shaft. Tim Jode channel in the wrest-
ern group, whica includes the Ivanhoe
middle, new and east lodes, the Great
Boulder and Hannan’s Star, runs through
North Kalgurli into the Union Jack lease.
These lodes have yielded a lot of gold, and
are persistent in both strike and dip.
Hampton Properties (W.A.), with head-
quarters at Edinburgh, claims to have
struck something promising on Block 45.
which comprises 27,000 acres of freehold on
Hampton Plains. Here several small gold-
bearing deposits have been worked from
time to time. During the Hampton boom
in 1920 a big area of Block 45 was pegged,
and a number of leases were declared to
have reefs and lodes previously missed ; but
as the various shows were opened up much
of the locality proved to be unpayable.
Arrow Co., an Adelaide concern operating
near Broad Arrow (W.A.), struggles on.
1 atches of rich ore have ended in faults,
and what appeared to be the beginning of
a good length of ore was later found to be
a bulge. Between £2OOO and £3OOO worth
of gold has been extracted from the show:
profits are doubtful.
The London spot price of tin rose sharplv
from £ll3 17s. 6d. to £l2O 12s. 6d. last
week. The reason was probably the an-
nouncement by the Government of the
1 .M.S. that, as from June 1, it will increase
restriction to 67 p.c. This means that
Malayan mines will be limited to 33
p.c. of their normal output. Visible sup-
plies of the metal at April 30 were 50,406
tons; 7147 tons were received during ’ the
month, and consumption was 7128 tons. Cor-
responding figures for April, 1931, were
visible supplies, 48,134 tons; consumption,
9931 tons; supplies received, 10,283 tons
❖❖ * *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is the position regarding participat-
ing pref. shares (which participate equally
with the ords. after an equal minimum dir
has been paid to each) under the A S Wales
Interest Reduction Act? —9B62.
The prefs. begin to participate after a
div. equal to the minimum pref. div. rate,
as reduced by the Act. has been paid on ords'
In cases where a limit is placed on the
prefs.’ right of participation in surplus pro-
fits, the limit is not reduced in any way,
unless there are deferred shareholders. Tin’
reduction applies only to dividends received
“irr preference or priority to any other share-
holder.
Would, an increased rate of exchange
came the price of Australian Consols to fail?
—9789. 1
Externally, the price (in sterling) would drop
it the rise in the local market did not exceed
the external fall in Australian currency. In-
ternally, any fluctuation in the price would
be indirect, since, theoretically, pound notes
(the measure of value) and Consols repre-
sent the promissory notes of the same Gov-
ernment, though the Consols have the dis-
advantage of not being legal tender. But
because an increased exchange would make
it harder for the Commonwealth to meet
its overseas interest obligation’s, unless the
depreciation of the £A resulted in an in-
crease m exports and a more fruitful field
tor taxation, the consequent budgetary dif-
ficulties would probablv result in a weaken-
ing of Consols on Australian ’Changes.
brief answers.
R.W.W : Mount Coolon (gold) ; North B. H.:
Lyell ; Electrolytic Zinc. ~. J. M. IvlacN.: (1) Melb
Electric; R. Harper; London Stores; Prestige. (2)
Fairy safe.. . .A.S. (Sourabaya, Java): If 3* p.c.
or 1- months (4 p.c. for two years) will suit vou,
leave it on fixed deposit. Unless you are close
enough to watch them, other investments are inclined
to be risky. . .L.F.P.: Mines Department examination
oi sample shows it to be marsupial excrement
Investor; (I) Chief factor responsible for the drop
x . s o th ® disappointing recoveries; costs are not stated.
Accor duig - to bore tests boulders are nearly
ail confined to the southern end of the area. (3)
Unless recoveries improve, the market price of the
scrip is likely to fluctuate. .. .W.P.G.: (1) All that
can be said definitely is that geological structures
are favorable in several places. Only the drill can
finally decide the question. (2) Yes. (3) No; it
is a speculation. If you cannot afford the risk, keep
out. . . .Argentum: Doubtful whether there will be
much in it for shareholders.


THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital . . • • £4,500,000
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bank) . . 2,475,000
Currency Reserve (used in the business of the Bank) . . 2,000,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter . . 4,500,000
£13,475,000
NINETY-EIGHTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO OCTOBER 12, 1931,
PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY,. MARCH 31, 1932.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at October 12, last, with the Profit and
Loss Account for the year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British, Australian
and New Zealand rates and taxes, the net profit for the year amounted to £217,535/15/10. .
To this has to be added £192,027/7/4 brought forward from the previous year’s account, and the
Directors have transferred to Profit and Loss Account from Exchange Adjustment Account a sum of
£85,000, set aside prior to October, 1930, the full amount of the depreciation having been provided from
the Published Reserves. A total of £494,563/3/2 is thus available, and from it £174,375 was paid
as an Interim Dividend on October 2 last. The Directors have now appropriated a further sum oj
£169,125 to pay a final Dividend of 4/- per Share, less Income Tax at 1/2-J in the £l, making in all
£343,500, equal to 9/- per Share less Tax, and representing for the year a distribution at the rate ot
9 per cent., less Tax. There will remain £151,063/3/2 to be carried forward to the next account.
Bad debts and investment depreciation have been provided for out of Contingency Tunas.
Of the Reserve Fund of £4,475,000 a sum of £2,000,000 has been specially allocated to Currency
Reserve to cover the depreciation in the Australian and New Zealand assets in relation to sterling _as on
October 12, 1931. As the result of this allocation, it has been possible to transfer to Profit and Loss
Account the sum of £85,000 referred to above provided in past years*for exchange fluctuations and to
re-transfer to our internal reserves the balance of the amount transferred from other Contingency 1 unds
to Exchange Suspense Account, as stated in the Balance-sheet of October, 1930.
The Dividend will be payable in London, Australia and New Zealand on April 1.
The Directors retiring by rotation are: Mr. Frederick V. C. Livingstone-Learmonth, D. 5.0., Mr.
Harold Nelson, and Mr. Charles Edward Barnett, who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths and Co., offer themselves for re-election
Since the date of the last Report a new Branch has been opened at Myrtleford, in Victoria, and
Branches at Fish Creek, in Victoria; Cessnock and Dorrigo, in New South \\ ales; and Port Pine, in
South Australia, have been closed.
4 Threadneedle Street, London,
March 21, 1932.
MIDLETON, Chairman.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT from October 14, 1930, to October 12, 1931
Balance brought forward from October, 1930 .. £192,027 7
Profit for the year to October 12, 1931, after
deducting Rebate on. Bills current at Balance date
( £10,587/12/7), provision for all bad and doubtful
debts, and for investment depreciation having been
made out of sums set aside for contingencies in
previous years, and for depreciation in Australian
and New Zealand currencies out of the Reserve
Fund . . ..
£1,215,807 11 3
4
Less:
. Charges of Management.—Australasia—Salaries
and allowances to the Staff, including the Superin-
tendent’s Department and 235 Branches and
Agencies
General Expenses, including rent, repairs,
stationery, travelling, etc.
London —
Salaries. . .. .. .. . • • •
General Expenses
£515,059 12 9
115,155 9 3
34,211 14 6
9,155 14 1
11. Rates and Taxes —-
Australasia and London
(Further liability for British Income Tax —if any
—is covered by existing provision for contin-
gencies.)
Add:
Exchange adjustment provision made out of profits
prior to October, 1930 .. .. •• ••
£673,582 10 7
£324,689 4 10
998,271 15 5
217,535 15 10
£409,563 3 2
85,000 0 0
£494,563 3 2
From which deduct:
Dividend, less Income Tax at 4/6 in the £1
paid October 2, 1931 . .
Transferred to Dividend Account, payable
April 1, 1932
£174,375 0 0
169,125 0 0
— 343,500 0 0
Balance carried forward per Balance-sheet ..
..£151,063: 3 2
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 12, 1931.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation
Deposits at Interest
Current Accounts
Bills Payable, Drafts in Transit
and other Liabilities, including
provision for contingencies
Acceptances for Customers, as per
contra
£333,079 0 0
26,639,560 12 6
11,039,012 16 10
3,310,327 1 1
103,751 11 11
Capital: 900,000
Shares of £5
each, fullypaid £4,500,000 0 0
(There is under
the Charter a
reserve lia-
bility of the
Proprietors of
£5 per Share.)
Reserve Fund
(used in the
business o f
the bank)
£4,475,000
Less Transfer
to Currency
Reserve t o
provide for
depreciation in
Australian and
New Zealand
c u r r e n cies
£2,000,000.. 2,475,000 0 0
Currency Reserve
(as above, used
in the busi-
ness of the
bank)
Dividend payable
April 1, 1932
Profit and Loss
A c c o u n t
Balance
£41,425,731 2 4
2,000,000 0 0
169,125 0 0
151,063 3 2
3 2
£50,720,919 5 6
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion, Government Notes
and Cash Balances ..
Loans at call and at short notice
British Government Securities . .
Government Securities of Austral-
asia and other investments
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in transit
Advances on Securities and other
Assets
Liability of Customers for Accept-
ances as per contra
Bank Premises and Sites in Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and London,
at Cost, less Amounts written
off
Note. —The Australian and New
Zealand assets and liabilities ai’e
included at the par rates of ex-
change, and the net difference
which would have arisen had they
been converted at the rates ruling
at the date of the Balance-sheet is
covered by the Currency Reserve.
£8,180,220 17 2
50,000 0 0
2,034,176 3 8
4,707,417 14 6
2,336,953 16 10
32,834,378 11 2
103,751 11 11
474,020 10 3
£50,720,919 5 6
E, GODWARD, Manager.
h BULLOCK, Accountant.'
We' have examined the above Balance-sheet m th thebooks the
Returns received in London from the Bra“ B ills of Exchange, Investments and Securities held in
awnsrMtt* “risrsar. ™- r rsaso" z asra
ft «* Kof our information and the explanation, given to and a.
So Wn bv the books in London and the Returns from the Branches.
London, Maroh 17, m DELOITTE, PLEHDER, GRIFFITHS * CO., AuMor,.
THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
The Half-educated on the Road
Dear Bulletin, —Most of the men I meet
on the road have been through a State-school
mill. The most uniform endowment which
that process seems to have conferred on them
is an incapacity for original thought.
Indeed, it almost appears as if the very
business of being dragooned through a few
elementary subjects has awakened in tbc
victims only a pathetic desire to shelter be-
hind the omniscience of the public mind. I
have been left wondering if all such people
would not have been happier had they never
gone near an ordinary school. In a great
many cases I have noticed that this form of
discipline has only served to bring upper-
most those very traits which any practical
system of education ought to have obliter-
ated. In most cases this is apparent in an
inferiority complex, giving rise to the writ-
ing-on-the-wall urge and also to anti-social
tendencies. In the writing on the wall, as
all our public conveniences attest, we have
the outcrop of the mob mind gratified
through the pathetically feeble instrumen-
tality of almost the only accomplishment
these people ever acquire at school. —Yours
etc., Gad,
The Alleged Thirst for Knowledge
Dear Bulletin, —Are people in the aggre-
gate taking more interest in serious ques-
tions since the depression arrived? It is
frequently asserted that such is the case;
but I am sceptical. I recently attended a
well-advertised lecture on democracy, with
questions and discussions to follow, by a
Vic. University Extension man. There are
8000 people in the town and a big rural
population on three sides. The audience
numbered 11 persons, two of whom were
flappers getting shorthand practice—they
left immediately the lecturer sat down. De-
pression o'r no depression, the great majority
of people in my district are not thirsting for
knowledge on the things that count. —Yours
etc., McNoon.
Hard Times; Tough Men
Dear Bulletin,— The early settlers had
to battle through or go under. They mostly
battled, and their sons and daughters did
likewise. The smashes of the early ’nineties
and the outbreak of the Westralian goldfields
brought on a generation who had to do or
go without. Those youngsters reached man-
hood about 1914 to TB, and we know what
they did then. But from 1901 to' T 4, and
again from 1919 to ’29, the infants were
born more or less on velvet. Everything
came easily. The younger ones didn’t have
to battle for higher wages or better condi-
tions ; these things came automatically, as
far as they were concerned. Those are the
youths of to-day. By 1950 another and
tougher generation will have grown up, and
this land will be a good place to live in.
It’s a long way to go, but there it is.—
Yours etc., Elgar.
Sins of the Fathers
Dear Bulletin,— We youngsters have
grown almost indifferent to the coined
phrases of the hardier generatidns. “C. Don ’
(B. 30/3/’32) comes along with some new
ones. The youth of to-day. was reared dur-
ing the borrowing boom. ITe became used
to movies, dances and other pleasures in-
troduced by his fathers. Along came the
depression, and swept the ground from
beneath him. Now he has to look forward
to shouldering his father’s debt, under con-
ditions new and decidedly unfavorable I
live in western N. S. Wales. None of my
mates has been to a show for months. Our
amusement consists of a 40-mile push-bike
ride to the nearest village for a game of
cricket. This is on a Sunday—once a montn
if we are lucky. We see a girl once a fort-
night on an average. Sometimes we get to
town, where we see members of the “hardy
generation” decorating pub verandahs and
street corners. In my_circle there are eight,
none receiving £1 a week, and some only
ten shillings. We work 12 to 14 hours a
day for bosses who do not tolerate drones ;
and we’re all cheerful. “O. Don’s” testing-
time doesn’t have to come. It is here, and
the “lazy,” “pleasure-loving,” “sex-mad’
youth of to-day is acquitting himself at least
as well as the paragons who came and went
before him.—Yours etc., A Degenerate
Youth.
Wool Falls below Eightpence
Dear Bulletin, —Last week the “weekly
average” price of wool fell to 7.7 d. per
pound, so it looks a certainty that the
season’s average, even with the help of a
25 p.c. exchange rate, will be lower than the
8.36 d. of 1930-31. The position is becoming
calamitous. It is absurd to think that, present
prices, in terms of sterling and foreign cur-
, rency, represent the true value of our merino
wool. Over-production cannot be blamed —the
output has varied very slightly during the last
three years—neither can under-consumption,
otherwise the decline in values would be
gradual instead of a sudden bump of 60 p.c.
We will have to look round for better
reasons. It’s up to growers to insist_ on a
searching investigation into the wool indus-
try from the sheep’s back to the consumer’s.
I had a resolution to that effect placed on
the last N.S.W. graziers’ conference agenda
paper, without avail-. I—Yours 1 —Yours etc., An Old
Grazier.
Pickings for City Chaps
Dear Bulletin, —The man I know best sent
IS really good young roosters to the city and
got 3s. 6d. and 4s. 4d. per pair—£l 145.;
barely Is. lid. each. Railway charges and
cartage came to 4s. 5d.; return freight on
empties was lOd. (31d. a bird) ; agency
charges were 3s. Id. (2d. a bird) ; total,
Bs. 4d.—sld. a bird. Net returns were
Is. 51d. a' bird, and from this had to be
deducted 6d. for exchange on cheque and os.
cartage to the station. He would have done
better to eat the roosters himself. And
here are the wool account sales of a small
man. Seven bales at 7|d. to llfd. realised
£7B 12s. 2d., and 1141 b. at Id. to B*d., i-
-45.; total, £BO 16s. 2d. Railway freight was
£3 4s. Bd.; interlotting, 10s. 6d.; receiving,
etc., £1 19s. 2d.; insurance, 2s. lid.: com-
mission (3 p.c.), £2 Bs. 7d.; and bulk
classing, ss. 10d.—£8 Us. 10d. altogether,
leaving a balance of £72 4s. 4d. But shear-
ing and crutching had cost £l3 2s. Id.; wool
bales, £1 45.; cartage to station, £1 4s. ; so
the balance to the landowner was £sb 14s.
3d The brokers, who claim so much credit
for their efforts in the interests of the wool-
growers, took £2 Bs. 7d. as a commission of
3 p.c. • but they also took £2 15s. Bd. m
sundry pickings—nearly another 3| p.c.
The grower’s cut worked _ out at just over
£1 per week, and where his interest or lent
charges are to come from is a mystery, to say
nothing of depreciation in the value of his
sheep. It’s a great thing to have a big lot
of men and women working tor you and
no responsibility for paying them. Yours,
etc., Curlew.
Small-farm Settlements
Dear Bulletin, —We are either too lazy
to sell our goods to buyers in Asia, or we
think our products are not worth selling. 1
suggest small-farm settlements with a cen-
trally situated canning factory for export
purposes. What is wrong with establishing
1000 families, growing, say, peas and beans,
when in season, to be treated at the canning
factory. No need to plough them in; the
grower would be assured of an all-the-year
round price. At present he may receive,
say, 3s. to 4s. a bushel for his beans;
to-morrow he may get Is., or less. Market-
gardening produces quicker returns than
any other form of agriculture. It is not a
difficult matter to cater for the Asian
market. —Yours etc., Trenton.
Didn’t Notice Any Boom
Dear Bulletin,.—l am rather tired of the
oft-repeated terms “boom years” and “period
of prosperity.” As a railway worker, now
thrown aside as worn out, I never noticed
any particular evidence of good times during
the middle ’twenties. My wages were regulated
by the cost of living, and, as usual, followed
its rise, and led the fall thereof. Employers
were always ready with evidence of bad
times, even in the best of times. I never
heard of one who said before an Arbitration
Court or Wages Board “Oh, yes; business
is good. Give the men another bob a day. ’
Booms are never talked about during their
progress. Depressions always are. Which
perhaps helps to explain the mysterious
periods or cycles of “good” and “bad” times.
—Tours etc., Ex-Loco.
Political Posters
Dear Bulletin, —All about one can still see
the remains of Federal-election posters pasted
on telegraph posts, electric-light standards
and fences, giving the place a very untidy
appearance. The law shuts its eyes to a
lot during electioneering campaigns, but can-
didates should at least be compelled to re-
move all their advertisements within a week
of election day.—Yours, etc., Eureka.
Other People’s Business
Dear Bulletin, —In an unscientific atmo-
sphere our social-reform crusaders formu-
late theories on sterilisation of the unfit,
mental deficiency, family endowment —in
short, questions demanding expert know-
ledge. A full press report, _ sentimental
politicians, an. indifferent Legislature, and
another statute is added to the laws
of the land. Such a condition, applied
to a family circle, where well mean-
ing but anxious parents shield the child
from the actualities of life, leads to unhap-
piness, discontent and, finally, mental in-
stability. Man is inherently furnished with
the means of living in an environment
swarming with battling factors- —the law of
the jungle, the greater oppressing the weaker
—but possesses the power of adaptability to
his surroundings. If we must have social
legislation,; why not copy Germany and
France, where such problems are submitted
to National Economy Councils, to which
are attached advisory committees with spec-
ialised knowledge? Further, in those coun-
tries such bodies as Chambers of Com-
merce, of Industry, of Medicine, etc., enjoy
a fuller public status than here, and are
always consulted before legislation affect-
ing their activities is introduced. —Yours,
C. Sandig.
The Australian £
Dear Bulletin, —If we stabilise our £ at
some figure below the English £ we shall be in
good company, for none of the 23 coun-
tries whose currencies are depreciated at
present will return to their old parity of
exchange.,/ The old economic rostrum of
cutting costs- —internal costs —has been
superseded by the more modern and fashion-
able method of currency depreciation, and
the price-cutting of the future, even of the
present, will be and is in currency valua-
tions. Admitted that our external (London)
balances have improved remarkably. But
why? Because of the incentive to export
given by a 30 p.c., now 25 p.c., premium on
exchange. Remove the incentive and, with
no improvement in sterling commodity prices,
where are we? Back to the position of a year
ago, as soon as our 20 million pounds in Lon-
don has been devoured by interest payments.
Depreciation of the Australian £ is not in-
flation. Since the exchange has been high,
internal prices have fallen ; therefore internal
deflation, not inflation, is taking place.
Internal stability of prices is the aim of
modern monetary experts. For a young coun-
try our economics are singularly old-
fashioned. —Yours, H. Lesley Gebhardt.
The Sugar Industry
Dear Buuletin, —Your comment on sugar
(B. 9/3/’32) is a pretty accurate summary
of Australia’s obligations to this industry,
and also of those of sugar producers to Aus-
tralian consumers. Consumers, however, are
not the only section of the people affected.
High production costs are generally ad-
vanced as a reason for maintenance of exist-
ing prices to consumers, and preservation of
a White Australia policy (by peopling the
coastal North with white settlers) supplies a
legitimate reason for an embargo on black-
grown sugar. Nevertheless costs of production
are inflated (o) by granting a monopoly to
the present personnel of the industry, even
though it persists in growing one-third of
the total crop on land incapable of return-
ing an of one ton of sugar per acre,
and (6) by prohibiting settlement of white
cane-growers on thousands of acres of un-
tenanted virgin land in North Queensland,
which is capable of returning three tons of
sugar per acre on a much lower capitalisation
basis.—Yours, W. E. Allen.
“Are We Poor Salesmen?”
Dear Bulletin,- —My own experience says
we are. Believing that'N.S.W. had a surplus
of honey, 1 entered into communication
with large wholesalers in Copenhagen, and
in reply was asked for a sample; at the
same time they expressed their willingness,
if the sample was suitable, to give a trial
order, and if prices and quality were right
they would want a regular supply. I went
to the Honey Board, explaining the posi-
tion, and was promised sample and infor-
mation. On the following day I went
again, only to be told that there was none
available for export! At the same time a
local apiarist informs me that he has not
so far been paid in full for honey sent in
nearly 12 months ago, from which he
assumes there must be a large stock on
hand. —Yours, Disappointed Salesman.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Grand Opera Season
Criterion ...... “The Barretts of Wimpole Street"’
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
IJoyai. “Blue 1 loses”
King’s “Turn to the Right”
state Movies and Talkies
♦
Grand Opera in Embryo.
Scene : The Comedy Theatre, Melbourne.
Time, 10.30 a.m. A queue, four deep and
apparently hundreds strong, extends from the
stage door into Exhibition-street. In appear-
ance it is indistinguishable from the crowds
lining up to see Greta Garbo in “Mata Hari,”
at the Capitol. But appearances, in matters
of Art, at any rate, are deceptive; intern-
ally it is seething
with emotion, burning
with ambition and
pullulating with expec-
tancy. It is about to
demonstrate to the
best of its ability
that Australia can be
there in the forthcom-
ing Italian grand-
opera season.
Inside the theatre,
in the front row of
the stalls, sits a grim
triumvirate with note-
books before it. It is
composed of Mr. Wil-
liam Quintrell, orches-
tral conductor for
J.C.W.. Ltd.; Ber-
nard lleinze, Ormond
Professor off Music;
and Miss Mary Camp-
“An expression of
guarded optimism!"
bell, of the Albert-street Conservatorium.
Mr. Quintrell’s face expresses passion-
less detachment, the professor’s guarded
optimism; the lady’s is non-committai.
Some distance behind them is an island
of gloom entirely surrounded by empty
chairs shrouded in white canvas. The
island is a member of the distinguished
Tait family. It has spent a lifetime
selling Italian murder, suicide, amatory
intoxication and domestic intrigue over
the counter, and bears the marks of its fatal
trade in every lineament of its Countenance.
On the stage is a piano with an efficient
young lady sitting at it. Two clerical gen-
tlemen hover round a table covered with
documents. Newspaper critics are scattered
about the auditorium.: There is a disturb-
“The genuine Italian
article.”
a nee at the
prompt side off
the stage, which
materialises as a
young thing in
short skirts, a
cocktail coat and
a pork-pie hat
with an immense
roll of musical
literature in her
arms. She bows
pertly to the tri-
umvirate, which
immediately as-
sumes an expres-
sion of judicial
austerity. Sh e
hands the roll of
mus i c to the
pianist and indi-
cates a selected
passage. Then
she advances to
th e footlights,
bends slightly for-
wards, grasps her
left hand firmly
in her right so
that the knuckles go white with passion, and
allows an expression of intense agony to
suffuse her countenance.
“Product of a suburban academy of sing-
ing,” volunteers a newspaper critic. “School
of pseudo-Melba. Has enraptured packed
sitting-rooms since childhood. Has gained
innumerable diplomas from teachers and
won aria competitions.”
“How do you know?”
“I guessed it.”
The judges bestir themselves.
“What are you going to sing?”
“ ‘Poige amor,’ from ‘Le Nozze di Figaro.’ ”
“Go ahead.”
“Porgi a”——
“Thank you, my dear.”
“I beg your pardon!”
“Thank you, dear! That will do. Leave
your address at the table.”
The next is a Baron Scarpia who, lacking
the price of a gallery ticket, has had no
direct experience
of the great tra-
ditions of Italian
operatic acting,
lie allows La
Tosca’s carving-
knife to enter his
brisket without
flinching. He dies
standing in boots
worn out tramp-
ing after jobs,
with one hand on
his hip and the
other On his float-
ing kidney.
Mr. Quintrell:
“Why don’t you
sing in Italian?”
Scarpia (sur-
prised) : “I did
•sing in Italian.”
Mr. Quintrell:
“T hank yo u.
Leave your name
at the table.”
“Porgi a"
Phe next singer, who has brought a tun-
ing-fork with him, has passion—lots of it.
It is the genuine Italian article. The right
rn? advanced stiffly, as if in rigor mortis.
1 lie left leg is planted well back. The right
hand thumps the distended chest, the left
hand is flung to Heaven. After the first bar
the left leg is thrust forward and the right
back, and the left hand smites the chest,
while the right is flung to Heaven ; and so on
lhe singer is the blind Archibaldo. a bar-
barian invader of Italy in tin' Middle Ages
(“L’Amore de tre Re”). While his son
Manfredo is away fighting, Fiora, Manfredo’s
wife, has been carrying on an intrigue with
Prince Avito. The blind king suspects and
finally drives Fiora to confess she has a
lover. She refuses to tell his name and the
old king throttles her to death. When her
body is laid
out for burial
A vito comes
to take a last
farewell. But
Archibaldo has
poisoned the'
lips of the
dead woman.
A v i t o kisses
them and dies
and Manfredo
follows his ex-
ample. Archi-
baldo gropes
his way in
and stumbles
over the corpse
of his son
“A lone-duet. of extra-
ordinary beauty.”
instead of the > lover. . It is, as , you will
remember, a poignant situation* and the
singer’s arms and legs do their duty to the
judges’ satisfaction. But, alas! his voice
does not. It suggests that it has been pre-
pared for its role shouting the odds for
bookmakers at Fiemingtonr
Mr. Quintrell: “Wliat is your name?”
Singer: “Mr. Sharp.”
“Mr. Sharp, you-sing, flat,” is the com-
ment, kindly left unspoken. - Mr. Sharp goes
off with his tuning-fork.
A duet. It is from the finale of the first
act of “Madame Butterfly.” The act ends
with a love-duet of extraordinary beauty,
breathing tenderness and passion in strains
which seem to embody all ■ the charm and
mystery of the perfumed eastern night. Lieut.
Pinkerton looks like a prize-fighter. Little
Butterfly looks' like, the good ‘girl of the
family. She has wgshed up the dishes in a
Footseray boarding-house, three times a day
ever since she could remember. Her destiny
“One hand on His
hip arid the other on
his floating kidney.”
is. to prune stand-
ard roses in the
garden of a Sav-
ings Bank home in
the . same soulful
suburb. .<
“T hank you,
dears. ■ Leave your
addresses at the
table.”
.Their singing,
u'n fort unately,
matches their ap-
pearance.
A thin girl sings
“L e parl a t c
d’amor,” page Sie-
bel’s ; song from
“Faust.” . “Thank
you, dear.”
She -is succeeded
by. a stout'girl who
sings-the same song. She is less a page than
a whole volume, hut the judges listen politely.
Appearance doesn’t matter in grand opera.
And so it goes ‘ oil. “Sapete voreste” from
“Un Ballo in Maschera,” sung by a human
penny-in-tlie-slot machine. "‘Thank you.
dear.” Every musical academy in the outer
suburbs seems to have belched forth its
aspirants for world honors. “Stride la
vampa,” sung by a girl whose revengeful
gypsy might be a graduate from the Presby-
terian Ladies’ College. “Thank you, dar-
ling.”. Eyes that were never lifted to, the
passionate Italian sky, even in the imagina-
tion, are turned, up-
wards in imitation
ecstasy; hands that
are more accustomed
to darning young
brother’s socks than
embracing guilt y
lovers are clutched
in anguish ; arms go
up and down like
ships’ semaphores. A
trifle stunned by top-
notes and dazed with
semaphore signals,
tbe critic falls into
a reverie. One has
no objections to the
Firm encouraging the
development of an
“An island of
gloom in a sea of
empty chairs.”
Australian school of opera if there is money
m it for all parties. But one does not see
liow the movement is going to develop an in-
digeneous art of music. In fact, from what
one has gathered at this audition, one doesn’t
see why they go such a roundabout way after
their objective; and the time, money and
lung power wasted in the process must be
terrible. It shouldn’t be beyond the capacity
ot Australian engineers to invent a grand-
opera robot; in fact, a complete set of
mechanical Sparafuoiles, Cavaradossis, Muset-
tas and Sharplesses. They could be wound
up and released as required, with gramo-
phones in their interiors. Then it would be
possible for a native and natural school of
singing to grow up, freed from alien con-
ventions.
As the critic is preparing to make his exit
an intelligent-looking girl enters. She diffi-
dently explains that she knows nothing about
Italian opera. Refreshing confession r All
her predecessors have conveyed the impres-
sion that they 'could do anything from
spaghetti-eating to sword-swallowing. She
begs leave to sing
one of the songs
her mother taught
her.
Her voice is as
sweet as a breeze
off the bushland
and as natural as
a lark’s. The
theatre seems to
stand stockstill
with astonishment
at the revelation
that sound divorced
from sense can be
more beautiful than
vocal false senti-
ment. There is a
moment of appre-
ciative silence
“Less a page than a
whole volume.”
she has finished. A Melba? Possibly.
1 hank you, dear. Don't forget to leave
your address at the table." -
• There is a new note in Mr. Quintrell’s
favorite formula.
Awful thought J Put little Miss Collingwood-
Hawthorn through the mill and she may
come out a real Italian prima donna.
The dark cloud of tragedy that has over-
hung Her Majesty’s, Sydney, since the Wil-
liamson opera co. commenced to camp
thsre was lifted on Saturday night when
> • Barber- of Seville”-, was performed.
■ Rossini s ; comic opera.; thing of . 'musical
shreds and patches. though'..: it ..is,; and; inex-
pressibly feeble ds.a vehicle of comedy.when
.presented-in a ;tongue, foreign to’9o per cent,
of the listeners,. flashes: out sparks, of genius
t hat .can’t ;be hid under rah bushel of •: handi-
caps. On this .occasion-the: handicaps were
n umerous.- .- The principals,. with A-h-e : excep-
tion of Michele Fiore, who presented Dr.
Bartolo to .the- life, lmnlc - little pretence .of
.acting, breaking off; frequently to acknow-
ledge applause. No member, of the/ band
that serenaded Rosina in--the first act knew
even how to handle the instrument, he pur-
ported to play. Signor Graiiforte was a
sprightly Figaro, and sang with verve, but
lie is not a guitar-player, and the • guitar
m his hands was a distraction. The spinet
in the music-lesson scene was a dumb one,
its sounds represented very unconvincingly
by a piano be-
hind the scenes,
and .Rosina (Lina
Paliirghi) per-
formed . her re-
markable vocal
contortions, of an
old melody with
her back to her
stage' audience,
Primo Morita-
nari, whose virile
duke in “Rigo-
letto” was one of
■thehighlights of
the season, made
au impeccable,. Al-
ma viva, an d
Albino , Marone,
“Thank you, dear.”
though suffering . from . a relaxed throat,
scored heavily in the, slapstick farce-part-of
Basilio. The orchestra, carried .away by
.“Monsieur Crescendo’s” furies, escaped;from
conductor . Rossi on several -occasions, and
drowned the , singers, whose- dismay was pal-
pable. The, scenery was prettily- painted,
though it might be gathered from its arrange-
ment that in Seville the - sun manages to
.shine both in the east and the lwest-in the
early morning. ; ; :
The Moot- two-keyboard" piano, ' intro-
duced to Sydney by Winifred Burston,. is, if
“A gypsy from
the Presbyterian
Ladies’ Col-
lege.”
not, as Backliaus has de-
clar e d, ‘ the.; 'greatest
advance in piano con-
struction .since Christo-
fori fitted the klavichord
with hammers in 1701),
undoubtedly-the most im-
portant development
since Erard. evolved the
double-escapement action
in 1821. -It is, in a way,
a •to one of
the, piano’s ancestors, the
' clavicembalo, * which, like
the Moor instrument, had
two keyboards, the back
one an octave above the
front one, with a coup-
ling contrivance whereby
jan octave may be played with one
linger. Moor has added a glissando
device, which might with advantage be
incorporated in the single keyboard; at
the back of the front keyboard, where
it. joins the other manual, the white
keys, for about an inch of; their length, are
raised to the same level as the black, ones',
making the chromatic glissando not only
possible but easy. The double manual
makes it possible to play, legato octave
passages—examples will be found in the
Beethoven sonatas —and vastly simplifies the
playing of Bach, who never .used. a. piano-
forte, preferring the clavicembalowith its
coupled octaves. Passages of a sort' be-
loved by Schumann, Liszt and Rayel, - in
which the fingers of both hands interlock,
can be disentangled, as it were, and the
crossness can be taken out of the cross-
hand skips that diversify piano music from
Scarlatti to Debussy. The Moor piano, is
of respectable birth and connections.
Emanuel Moor, the inventor, is a composer,
of note and was a pupil., of Liszt. Liszt
prophesied the creation of “pianos with two
or three key-
boards, which
will carry all
before them in
the realm of
music.” Bus-
oni had the
same idea as
Moo r, but
lacked the
m e c h anical
skill to carry
it out. In
Europe the
double key-
board has
been popular-
ised by the
recitals given
by Madame
Moor (Wini-
fred Christie),
“A real Italian prima
donna.”
the inventor’s wife. Apparently it does not
take very long for a performer accustomed
to the single keyboard to master the more
obvious possibilities of the double manual,
but it would seem that the full capabilities
of the instrument will not be available to the
general run of piano students till composers
write for it and the classics are re-edited
in its favor.
* * #
Wodehouse’s “Good Morning Bill,” was
revived by the-Pickwick Theatre Group at
Sydney Savoy last week. Cedric Kempson
was well suited to the part of Walter Para-
lene; Phillip Lewis made the most of the
role of Lord Tidmouth; Zita Harris, as
Lottie, was a lady that no man would like
:o cross; and Eric Plowell’s picture of a
nedical knight was bright from start to
inisli. Phyllis Fuller, who was Sally, was
convincing when she could memorise her
ines; and Ettie Oppenheim was stolid as
i maid.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Ninety per cent, of talkies are produced
with an eye to morons, and “She Wanted a
Millionaire,” at Sydney Regent, belongs to
the great majority. It is a lineal descend-
f ant of "The Villain Still Pursued Her” type
of. entertainment, which flourished when 90
• Phy cptit. of stage plays were produced for the
. edification of persons of arrested mental do-
velopnient. Joan Bennett’s first millionaire
does no more than make her get out of his car
jiini, .walk when she resists his advances. As
i s plodding home along the railway line
Spencer Tracey, a chivalrous engine-driver.
sees,_ lipr, stops the train, drives her to her
station, but escorts her to her father’s house.
Hfei- troubles really begin with James Kirk-
wood', who marries her. The director has
saved, himself a lot of worry in the way of
inventing explanations, and paved the way
' for unlimited horrors, by the old formula of
making his hero mad. So we aren’t sur-
prised to find that James has a kennel of
1 bloodhounds in the cellar of his French castle
, (he flogs one into insensibility before our
’eyes) ( and the only comment heard from the
sophisticated, when he carries the uncon-
scious form of Miss Bennett down to the
•raging animals, being urged thereto by in-
sensate, jealousy is: “I told you so; pass the
chocolates.” The engine-driver arrives in
the nick of time; the loony keeper of the
bloodhounds shoots Kirkwood, and Lurv
comes into its own. A great deal of money
has been spent on this nonsense. Some
acceptable comedy is supplied by Una Merkel
as - a .typist.
“Two Kinds of Women,” the other Regent
feature, is equally lavish and idiotic. Miriam
Hopkins, a wide-eyed, fluffy-haired cling-
' some ■ irigenue, whose art would have de-
lighted the late Mr. (Crummies, falls in love
‘with Phillips Holmes. Her father objects;
for: one thing the lad is married already.
-But .the wife falls out of a 20-storey window
while drunk, and after all those at the party
■had been arrested, including Miriam, and
.after - suspicion had been cast on Phillips by
reason of his bowler hat being found in the
room recently vacated by deceased, the vil-
lain, who had been egging the wife on to
: blacl£pmil the hero out of a hundred grand,
-is ‘;y jinked. off, and the wedding bells peal
out. Phillips ITolmes looks sulkier and more
‘bored than usual in this show. Miriam Hop-
kins'is good as the gin-sodden wife.
• •>' .•/ ( . -y. :{■
The badly shop-worn “Polly of the Circus”
(M.-G.-M.) is going through its paces in slow
morion at Sydney State. Marion Davies, as
the trapezist Polly, threatens occasionally
:to drift into the hoydenish Marion of yore.
when she discovers pants pasted over
posters' depicting her in tights, but soon
resumes sleep-talking and -walking. So does
tlie How-browed, bedimpled Clark Gable, as
the bachelor Rev. John Plartley, who takes
.’her home when she has hurt herself in a fall
at the circus. The one bright spot in their
-subsequent courtship is Downey (Raymond
Hatton), who objects to Polly and is dis-
; missed. They marry, but Downey has spread
: scandal, and John tries for another pastorate
.unsuccessfully, though he is his bishop’s
nephew. Polly shocks the bishop by offer-
ing to get a divorce; then realising there is
but One Way Out, runs_back to the circus,
planning to fall from tlie" trapeze to death
so that John may return to his pulpit. How-
ever she delays falling until the bishop, and
her husband ramble in and dissuade her.
# * *
A competent cast led by Lewis Stone orna-
ments First National’s “Bargain,” at Sydney
H'aymaiket. - When Maitland White (Stone)
married Nancy ;(Dbrjs Kenyon) he gave up
all thoughts—well, nearly all—of painting and
took a job iix a soapworks, where he did
well.- Their son, Ricky (John Darrow),
whom they intended sending to Paris to real-
ise-‘•his ‘ ainbitibn - to* become an architect, in-
sists, on going to the soapworks, too, the
girl ip hi s* -case being Veronica (Evalyn
Knapp). Nancy persuades Maitland to take
a long holiday to belatedly paint his dream
masterpiece, and gets Una Merkel, the house 7
maid, to sit for him. The picture is finished
on the night Ricky’s engagement to Veronica
is to be announced. But Veronica tells Mait-
land she is giving up Ricky because she
doesn’t want to' be the grave of his archi-
tectural ambitions. Maitland, swallowing
his arty-tarty > feelings, accepts his boss’s
• offer to buy his painting for advertising pur-
poses, and sends Ricky and his bride ro
Paris.
• r :r * * *
In “The Age for Love” (United Artists),
at Sydney Lyceum, Jean Hurd (Billie Dove),
a sure-of-herself young intellectual, becomes
the bride of Dudley Crome (Charles Star-
rett), a bank clerk with old-fashioned ideas.
Dudley wants their married life to be mod-
elled on that'of a pair of humdrum suburban
- friends. Jean endeavors to comply with his
wishes, but pines for her old job of running
a literary agency. After a few months pol-
ishing floors.and opening tins she goes back
to business. • Her divorce follows. Dudley
marries .Sylvia (Lois Wilson), a girl of the
homely type.- 'The separated pair, however,
begin to have regrets. Dudley is bored by
Sylvia’s dullness and Jean finds her business
partner (Edward Horton) very unsatis-
factory. Jean and Dudley toy with the idea
of remarrying, but Sylvia is expecting a
baby, so the notion is reluctantly discarded.
* * *
Only the acting of Norma Shearer and
Robert Montgomery prevents “Strangers
May Kiss” (M.-G.-M.) at Sydney Capitol
from being utterly tedious. The plot is
moth-eaten, the scenes are poorly connected
and the greater part of the dialogue is inane.
The beautifully-groomed Miss Shearer takes
the part of Lisbeth, private secretary to a
beauty specialist, who marries in Mexico
Alan (Neil Hamilton), a roving foreign cor-
respondent for a New York paper. Back
home another admirer, Steve (Robert Mont-
gomery). drowns his sorrow in bootleg liquor.
In her husband’s absence Lisbeth wanders
off to Paris, where the perpetually-sozzled
Steve wants to take her under his wing, but,
hearing that Alan has also reached Paris,
she. refuses. Alan breaks off marital relation*
when he finds her so far from home, and
Steve escorts the grief-stricken dame across
the Atlantic, only to lose her again to Alan,
who has decided to forget and forgive.


.
: V*
1 i ut
,M* m §IIS I -1
- £? * /■
Mi
■
Ml
B
■
ilf§
■
■
■■a
MIHHHHMiIir
■
1
w r '* , (
!l|ll;ii
... am
m
. , ■ .
■• ■ •
a?
Sc
lI
i)
is.
//
ixmpri
HOSIEKYOF DISTINCTIVE QUALITY
DULL SHEER
*
SERVICE WEI G.H T S
N
for outdoor wear
Dull Sheer —The New Hosiery
No. 505 GRENADINE- An exquisite fine gauge sheer
stocking of the latest dull Grenadine yarn. Pure Silk .
throughout with a dainty coloured Picot Edge. Per pair 14/11
No. 404 POWDERBLOOM— Another fashionable Dull stock-
ing very similar to Prestige No. 505, but slightly heavier in weight.
Silk throughout except toes, tops and heels, which are q ..
of Lisle for extra wear. Picot Edge. Per pair V/l I
Service Weights
No. 800 -The popular fully fashioned service weight pure
silk stocking. The standard of value in the hosiery trade
Per pair IU/O
No. FFI A premier quality pure silk from top to toe, full
fashioned stocking of excellent service weight.
Per pair
14/1
For Outdoor Wear
No. 24 PRESTENE —Fully fashioned Mercerised Lisle.
ticularly suitable for out-door and sports wear.
r Per pair
Par
5/11
No. 22 Similar to No. 24, but with Hand-Embroidered Ciox.-
Per pair 7/11
\a tS/.
GILBERT & SULLIVAN OPERAS—Rendered by the D'Oyly Carte Company. Broadcast from Station 3AW, M ® lb ® urn ®'d 9 ' l . 5 m f- n ’,'
every Thursday, and Station 2UW, Sydney, every Monday, at 8.30 p.m. Offered for your entertainment y . res ige i i


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius .. 10,000 tons, June 13
IThemistocles 12,500 ~ Sept. 6
*Nestor . . 14,500 „ Oct. 18
ICeramic . . 18,500 „ Oct. 25
♦First class only. fFirst and third class.
JCabin class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agent?
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
I'. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. DAYMEN
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also ‘ representation
through the leading- Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
ant ofteis the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
sdf
sdf
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
sdf
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Onion Club and Two Minutes
from Bntrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartment?
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Cooramin": Old hands of Araluen
(N.S.W.) have memories of the time when
barmaids were accorded a public reception
and treated as princesses. In the gold boom
the town had 110 publicans, and one of them
placarded the streets with the announcement
that lie had engaged six attractive young
barmaids in Sydney, and they would arrive
by coach on a certain day. The town had a
population of 30,000, mostly men, and pretty
well the lot met the coach. The ladies were
greeted with tumultuous cheers and a bras«
band, and toasts and dancing continued till
live in the morning, by which time the girls
had lost count of the number of proposals
they received. A persistent admirer was
“Yankee Joe," a digger’s barrowinan, who
was paid a pound a day. On Saturday nights
he banked a pound-note under the inner sole
of each boot, to carry him through the week,
and invested the rest in fruitless wooing
across the bar. One Sunday morning, when
he woke up at the back of the prefnises, lie
found his boots standing beside him, and tin
money gone. The only one he had confided
in was a little Hebe who had smiled on him.
Joe became a misogynist from that hour.
“Mako”: We spent the afternoon teaching
the family pup the art of retrieving a tennis
ball and placing it on the porch, lie was
an apt pupil, but we didn’t realise how well
he had learned his lesson until next morn-
ing, when dad, whose hobby is gardening,
went on to the porch and began to blink in-
credulously at wliat he saw. Seven small
round objects lay there, and the pup, a bit
green about the jaws but pleased and happy,
awaited a word of commendation. He didn’t
get it, the agricultural amateur having re-
cognised in the seven balls liis young prize
melons, with which he later hoped to reap
rich reward at the local show. He was all
for spanking the pup, but we argued in de-
fence that the youngster had not had it made
clear to him that tennis balls don’t grow on
vines, his tuition merely stressing the point
that the proper place for spherical objects
was the back porch.
* * * *
“Bogaduck” : At first sight “Yarcoo’s" par
(B. 20/4/’32) about the tank which fills
with water in a mysterious way reads like a
plain, old-fashioned camp-fire lie, but I
don’t doubt its truth. The explanation is
bound up in the fact that the lid fitted
TO ELIMINATE WASTE.
“I gotta idea, ow a bloke could make a fortune, Oswald.”
Ow, ’Oracet”
“Growin’ square peas.”
REWARD OF TOIL.
“Let un up, boay, let un up! ’E ’ve ’ad ’nough.”
“Shan’t let un up; too dam’ ’ard t’ get un down.”
tightly. When the sun warmed the tank in
the day-time the air inside expanded, slowly
escaping out around the edge of the lid ; at
night the reverse took place, and the air
slowly going back into the tank drew dew-
drops in with it. In time quite a lot of
water will collect in this way. I have left
a honey-tin with a lever top standing for a
fortnight and found half an inch of water in
it when I went to use it, though not a drop
of rain had fallen during that time. This
phenomenon is the cause of most of the
complaints about water being found in drums
of petrol. In such cases it will often be
found that the drum was stood out of doors
with the cap in the top upward. A parallel
on a big scale is to be found in the dewponds
along the south coast of England and in
other countries where hollow-topped granite
rocks are close to the sea or sheets of. water.
I have seen a dry hollow like this at Port
Lincoln. (S.A.) collect a full gallon of water
by sunrise on a cold dewy night.
“H.S.G.” : Out of sympathy for thousands
who' are anxious to taste the delights of the
open road but don’t know how to begin, I
offer the following hints. First get a union
ticket and badge. These will be sent on
application to the secretary, Federal Bag-
men and Swagmen’s Union, Goanna House,
Handout-street, Soggydamper Greek (enclose
ss. to help cover postage and packing).
The badge bears the F.B.S.U. motto:
“Sic vos non vobis” (Let some other cow
do’ it). Then obtain a swag. This is easy.
Find a prospective swagman who has so
many belongings that he does not know what
to leave behind. Follow him out of town and
gradually make up a swag from the stuff he
throws away. Then walk till you reach a
bend in the road, put the swag under a
shady tree and sit on it. When you hear
a car coming shoulder the bluey at once and
start off along the track either (a) rapidly,
so that the occupants of the car may think
‘‘Fine fellow, tramping so bravely and
eagerly in search of honest toil—we’ll give
him a lift”: or (6) lamely, so that the occu-
pants of the car mlay think “Poor fellow,
limping along so bravtely, etc., we’ll give him
a lift.” If the car does not stop use lan-
guage suitable to the occasion, sit down,
and wait for the next one. Some, of course,
prefer to travel on the railways, the slogan
Use the railways—you own them,” probably
having something to do with it. This presents
no difficulty ; you go to a crowded goods depot,
tell the porter where you want to go, and ask
what truck lie can recommend. He will show
you to a suitable waggon, and will even tele-
graph along the line to announce your com-
ing. After that you needn’t worry about
board and lodging for at least 14 days. When
cadging tucker at a homestead and you ask
for a job, don’t get panic-stricken if you are
invited to swing a 41 lb. axe on the wood-
heap. It is a simple matter to chop off a
toe and get £lOO compensation.
* * * *
“C. Coral” : Jimmy Susu casts an obser-
vant eye upon the crocodile. “Yes, he got
plenty alligator stop round here ; some island
in Torres Strait he no got, but this place
belong me he- full up alligator, and man he
got look out good. Them alligator he like
kai-kai turtle, and some time you see them
two fella fight along sandbeach when that
woman turtle he been go up for lay eggs.
That turtle he make his leg and hand fast
along ground, but he got no chance; that
alligator capsize him, and then he bite him
altogether one time, shell and everything.
Some time when alligator he catch turtle he
sling him along his back, and hold him on top
liis neck when he swim; you can see him
long way, and that turtle he sit down on
top alligator’s neck, but he can’t move, he
proper fast. One time I been see alligator
catch one turtle, then he put him along
back and swim for take him away to place
belong him. Me I watch, I look out that
tiling, and then I see that alligator he go
up along sandbeach- close to and leave that
turtle there so he get him by-and-bye. When
that alligator go way, I go ’longside, me and
’nother man; then we haul that turtle and
put him along our dinghy and take him home.
My word! I think that alligator he proper
sorry when he come back and that turtle he
finish go way. H'e proper wild. I think!
But we say ‘thank you’ to that alligator for
help we get that turtle.”
* * * *
“Donk”: The mule maintains his repu-
tation for cussedness wherever he may find
himself. Recently an enterprising trader on
the New Guinea mountain goldfields im-
ported a couple from N.Q. Arrived at Sala-
maua, they were heaved over to swim ashore,
and later were taken 125 miles through the
tangle of precipitous mountains to Wan.
Their boss paddocked them for a couple of
days under the impression they needed a
spell, but. found next morning that they had
vanished. Ten days afterwards the pair were
recaptured near Salamau making for the
beach, having, apparently, had no trouble
in sticking to a strange road on which they
had travelled only once. It seems rather a pity
the runaways were stopped before reach-
ing the sea. It would have been interesting
to see if they would have taken to the water
again in an attempt to swim back to N.Q,,
a happening which would have rounded off
the yarn nicely.
A DARK GIRL SINGING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out in the orange twilight
We heard a dark girl sighing
An ancient song of an ancient
Race that is swiftly dying.
What rhythm was s'he crooning
Over and over again?
A song of the western rivers,
Back of the haunts of men !
And the cadence of her singing
Was fraught with a vague unease.
Eerie with drum-rhythms
Of lost corroborees.
Born of mirage and desert.
Still is it known to-day—
“Wo girigun buntha
Youl unginthe lay !”
Strange tongue, half-heard in the silence,
Old voices live in you,
While furtive shadows'people
The place that once they knew'.
Tungipin and Yinni whittling at their spears.
Yura weaving ’roo-nets, and, hobbling o’er
the hill,
Little hamstrung Nu-lu, lame and crippled
Nu-lu,
Breaker of laws and outcast, but quick
and cheery still.
Kundurkan the carver, wrinkled Marri-dai-o,
With white bones in his dilly, rich in
sorcery,
Squatting round the embers, while the busy
women
Tempt them with the meat-scents, and
jests flow free !....
The horses trail on slowly ;
Wrapped in the sudden dark,
She and her man have faded
With their pitiful red spark.
I cannot see their camp-fire
> Behind the lonely hill.
But “Youl my youl bunnerna'''
1 hear her singing still.
The girl in the burnt-out daylight
Who croons of spirits fled,
A little bent, black symbol
Of a race that is doomed, is dead !
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


AGENCIES
A valuable feature of the Commonwealth Savings Bank service
is the establishment of agencies in practically all Post Offices
in Australia, as well as in many business houses. Altogetner
there are nearly 5000 of these agencies in the Commonwealth,
from which it will be readily seen that the Bank s service is
extended wherever there is population.
In every city, town and district, therefore, Savings Bank
facilities are available to men, women and children, for the
Savings Accpunt may be used by all.
Wherever you may live, wherever you may travel within the
Commonwealth, you can utilise the Savings Account for your
profit and convenience.
Cbmmoiiwealtl) Ba\nnoiB JBauk of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
3ET
DETONATION/
NEW
COR
PETROL
Hill Now available at all C.O.R. Pumps.
“Wai-hoi”: A relic connected with the
wreck of the Gothenburg on the Great Bar-
rier Reef on Feb. 24, 1875, has just. been
given to the Adelaide Museum. This is the
carapace of a turtle on which one of the
survivors, J. J. Fitzgerald (102 were
drowned), carved the names of 18 castaways
who reached Ilolborn Island in one of the
ship’s boats. From there they eventually
made Port Denison. As far as is known,
the only living survivors of this pile-up 57
AS USUAL.
“I met a lottery-winner yesterday.”
"What did he say?”
“No.”
years ago are J. J. Fitzgerald, now an in-
mute of St. John of God’s Hospital, Subiuco
(W.A.), John Cleland and W. Falk.
.Jj >;: * ❖
“Kooragai”: Netted fences on out-back
runs prove death traps to many things, in-
cluding snakes. A big reptile attempts to
crawl through, gets stuck, tries to turn back
through another mesh, and thus darting to
and fro laces itself hope-
lessly in the netting. The
goanna doesn’t get stuck,
but it goes up and down
for days looking for an
opening, whereas if the
fence were a solid wall
it would climb straight
over. Turkeys have been
caught by the boundary-
rider with their heads
thrust through til* 1
meshes. In dry times
turtles or tortoises, trav-
elling from small lagoons
that are drying up,
perish against the bar-
rier in hundreds. Kan-
garoos and emus are also
caught, but not so often
as on a plain wire fence.
The marsupial comes to
grief when it jumps at
the second wire and
strikes the top one.
which it had not noticed.
As the body topples over,
the second wire is caught
up by tin' foot and
drawn to a loop over the
other, and the animal is
tightly held. Wallaroos
are never caught that
way; they look for a
place to scramble under-
neath. The emu is
trapped like the kan-
garoo. but usually it
follows a fence, like the
goanna. I saw two emus
that were separated for several weeks, ana
each had worn a pad a couple of miles long
through walking up and down. Eventually
one blundered through a slackened wire, and
they ran away together out of sight of the
beastly obstacle.
'* * *
“Bihai” : I can endorse all “Kiriwina” (B.
27/4/’32) says as to the sailing wqgas of
the Louisiades. They are built up on a
single long thin stick, not more than lOin.
or 12in. in width. The labor of hollowing
this, adzing the planks which rise from it,
boring the holes to fasten them in place,
plaiting the sennit lashings and gathering
and preparing the gum for caulking, is pro-
digious, but the real marvel is how the
spindly mast carries the strain of the heavy,
elongated, oval pandanus sail. But it does,
and amazing open-sea voyages are made.
As the craft is low in the waiter vision is re-
stricted, so, when making a landfall after a
long trip the units separate, keeping just
EXPLAINING IT TO THE BOSS.
BOSS: "Mary’s a good lubra—what do you quarrel about?”
JACKY: '‘’Bout? — ooh, ’bout ten-leven times a day, Boss!”
within sight of one another. The first one to
spot a landmark dips the upper end of the
sail (normally set at an angle of 45cleg.),
the signal is repeated from craft to. craft,
and the fleet closes in. Probably this is a
tip picked up from migratory swimming
birds. By the way, Christie Sorenson’s last
boat was anything but a racing yacht. She
was an oblong scow, approximating the gait
and sailing qualities of a lakatoi, and nick-
named in derision the Tucker-box.
... * * *
“Hippo”: Has any Abo.-liar seen a horse
with thumbs? One such now being shown
in America has four, the growth being in-
ward from just above the four fetlocks.
The thing's are constantly growing, and
have to be trimmed back once a month.
The growths are apparently a throwback to
the long-vanished toes of the original ances-
tor of horses, Orohippus. which boasted tour
toes on each foot. These gradually dis-
appeared, the single centre toe developing
into the hoof at the expense of the others.
Traces of these toes still exist in the modern
prad in the shape of the metatarsals, or
splint bones, which lie concealed under skin
and flesh close to the cannon . bone. Thus
to all intents and purposes man’s first ser-
vant walks on one toenail of each foot.
* * * *
“Yarri”: Rubies are divided by miners
and dealers into masculine and feminine, a
classification applied to no other gem. The
male stones are the dark red or deep car-
mine, and are the most valuable —some more
so than diamonds —while the females are a
pale-rose color. Many of the good stones
can only be distinguished from the much
less valuable garnets or red tourmalines by
the use of a file, and the resemblance has
facilitated many a swindle. It is an old
saying that wherever rubies are sapphires
are likely to be found, but after they become
jewellery, rubies associate with something
more prosaic—gin. The common practice
when cleaning them or reviving their lustre
is to rub them with a toothbrush dipped in
gin. Sometimes when a gem is off color a
drop of whisky will revive it just as well.
❖
“Mulyan” : The tinkling notes of the bell-
birds, whether the bell-miner of the coastal
regions or the crested bellbird of the in-
terior, are always a sure indication of water
being close at hand. But there is nothing
harder to locate among the trees than these
sweet singers. Though the notes are loud
and clear, they are as elusive as the chirp
of a cricket in' the grass. In fact, they are
more so, for at times when they appear to
come from a distance the birds may actually
be only a few yards away. While three of
us were having a noonday rest under Mount
Lindsay, the silvery chimes seemed to be
coming from all around us, and one inter-
ested listener went rambling abroad to find
the bellringers, when, by chance, I noticed
them in the tree I was lying under. I ex-
perienced the same difficulty in locating the
crested bellbird on Cooper s Creek (Q.). As
ventriloquists they take first prize among
the feathered tribe. They like the dense
timber fringing a water-course, and as they
continue to sing though people are moving
about under the trees, they are a charming-
adjunct to a bush picnic,
* * * *.
“Yacko” : “G.S.L.” (B. 13/4/’32) is cor-
rect in stating that three Tas. natives were
living at Kangaroo Island (S.A.) when
Truganini passed out in 1886. One of the
trio is buried at Springy \ ale, Stokes Bay.
Another, Sal, lies by a heap of oyster-shells
near the site of the old sealers camp at Peli-
can Lagoon, American River. Probably baL
was the best known of early Kangaroo Island
settlers. She was a consort of Nat Thomas,
and her descendants to the third and fourth
generations are respected and popular resi-
dents. In February, 1834, George Meredith,
of Tasmania, reached Kangaroo Island in a
whaleboat from Cape Howe Island, bal was
one of his crew. At least two bals appear
in the early history of K. 1., and the exploits
of one are often confused with the other,
The first settler, “Governor” Robert Whal-
ley, landed from the notorious American seal-
ing brig General Gates in 1819. Fifty years
later his half-caste son, Henry, was pall-
bearer at the burial of William Lanne, the
last Tasmanian male aborigine,
* _ * „ , * D ,7 .
“E.S.” : I met old Sandy, a Bonalbo alx>..
mooching along in a moody fashion. He
asked me if I had seen Mrs. Sandy any-
where along the road. When I informed
him that she was carrying the dunnage about
two miles ahead, he inquired: “What she
do to her foot?” “Got a bit'of glass in her
heel,” I said. “How did yon know anything
had happened to it?” Sandy pointed to the
road. “First time her track all right—walk
along good feller, like it always,” he ex-
plained; “then her track belonga one foot go
lame feller. You got um little bit t’hacca?’
* * * *
“Tomyodai”: Fordyce in “Blue North”
o p enB shell and picks on a “hoary old man of
the sea... .a most promising case for a gem.”
Pie deserved disappointment; these old shells
seldom contain anything—at most a small
piece of poor baroque. The gems come from
the strong young and mature shell, t hen he
finds a flawless, perfect round 60-grain gem
on a sand bottom. M.O.P shell cannot live
on a sand bottom; and 60 grains! Ihe
biggest flawless, perfect round 1 know ot
fished about Broome is the 40-grainer found
by Tom Pritchard in 1919. lor this £4OOO
was asked and paid without demm by the
first pearl-buyer to whom it was shown.
THE GIFT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve made a mess of things again ; it’s ’ard
to understand
’()w everything I do turns out the opposite
I’ve planned.
•Ere’s me, who thought I’d schooled meself
to be a squire o’ dames,
An' learnt the ways of courtin’ maids an’
usin’ fancy names —
'Ere’s me in bad, an’ jist because, to make
me alley good,
1 bought the girl a birthday gift, as any
lover would.
1 thought I’d get a “thank you,” with a
look of glad surprise.
You should 'ave seen the awful gleam in
Jane Eliza’s eyes!
Times are too crook, I told meself, to think
of givin’ rings;
The cows are scarce worth milkin’ now for
all that butter brings ;
While as for toilet things an’ such, last
Christmas-time, I know,
She got a manicurin’ set from ’er old Uncle
Joe.
The sort of gear, I reckon, never suits a
farmer’s ’ome;
'E'd showed more sense in givin’ ’er a brush
an’ currycomb.
But I’ve no grounds for slingin’ off, of that
I’ve ’ad good proof,
For when my present came to light, Eliza 'it
the roof.
She went to market properly, ’er black eyes
snappin’ fire;
’Er language, though it ’urt a bit. I couldn’t
’elp admire.
Crude, unrefined, she said I was, an’ didn’t
mince ’er words;
Me mind, I ’ears, don’t rise above fat pigs
an’ dairy ’erds!
Now that’s unjust. I take a pride in oldin’
modern views.
An’ always reads the murder trials an’ all
the sportin’ news.
But let er rip! I’m game to bet there’s
other girls in shoals
Who’d rush a pair of milkin’ boots with
extra ’eavy soles.
VICTORIA.
ELLENVALE.


After all theres only one‘Australia*
tA
A
o
O
Svdnevs Centre
THE NEW DECORATIONS
The Winter Garden, the Dining-room, the Ballroom Lounge—
these have all been entirely remodelled and redecorated in the
modern manner. The whole forms a glamorous and enchanting
setting that is without an equal in Australia.
REDUCED TARIFF—“ROOM ONLY” RATES.
Single Room from 10/6 per day
Double Room from 20/- per day
WRITE FOR RATE CARD.
Telegraphic Address:
“Auslraotel, Sydney.”
T^/lustralia
NS
The Hotel oj the
Commonwealth,
Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
Lang seems to have solved the problem of
perpetual emotion.
“Edgar Wallace’s estate will probably turn out
to be insolvent.”
This may be regarded as his last com-
position.
¥ ¥
“He hit me on the jaw. The gentleman standing
beside him told him to give me another. The man’s
wife kept hitting me on the head with a stick.
I thought it was no place for me, so beat for home.”
— Melb. “Herald.”
Well, anyhow, they couldn’t accuse him of
not taking a hint.
H- *
GAMPS.
Umbrellas show the men of worth-—the
splendid ones who own the earth. The land-
lord, though he may not get his rent, his
shield against the wet still carries with that
pompous air that beadles and detectives
NO PROSELYTE.
“My husband and I are strictly Theosophi-
cal, so we’ll not ask you to cook meat
for us!”
“Ho, an’ wot’ll I do? You don’t catch me
eatin’ it raw.”
share. Parsons and knights of commerce
and round men of substance or of land can
(when its needed) flaunt a gamp. It’s
seldom carried by a scamp.
Strange though it sounds, I’ve known the
days when I (yes, I!) in public ways have
walked abroad with gamp outspread to
guard from damp my graceless head. I’ve
heard acquaintances say “Hell! Old Percy’s
turned respecta-6e((/” I’ve felt the glow of
staid ways spring within me as I held the
thing; but more I glowed to feel that I
strode through the tempest almost dry,
whilst (no doubt in an angry sweat) the
mug who owned the gamp got. wet.
Percy Pawnticket.
“ ‘After their quarrel,’ said witness, ‘her husband
admitted he was wrong and helped her to wash up.’ ”
It's known as throwing in the towel.
NEW TARONGA PARK ATTRACTIONS.
Union-secretary Birds. —A notable thing
about these aristocrats of the feathered
tribe is their ability both to
fly high and burrow under-
ground. Their cage has to
be kept especially warmed;
they cannot live without
plenty of hot air. They are
parrot-like talkers. Th e
species is not indigenous to
Australia (hence its name
Glaswcgis-Moscowski), but
is becoming very plentiful
locally. They spend most of
their time in subterranean
pursuits, but come above
ground about Easter-time
and make a tremendous
noise.
The Tin-Hare Bird. —This
ornithological freak, the only
one of its kind in captivity,
is a cross between a tin
hare and a Gosling. Its
natural habitat is the wilds
—very wilds—of Mascot.
Of nocturnal habits, and
perpetually hungry, it is
timid of nature, and when
startled emits a noise like a
G.C.A. share. It is one of
the most expensive of our
recent acquisitions. Visitors
are warned against getting
too close to it—it smells.
Ostricows (particuss politicuss Australis).
—The name is derived from their habit of
burying their heads in the sand, while behav-
ing in a manner that causes electors to
describe them as cows. They possess no
energy and are content to chew the cud
(whether draught or bottled) and draw their
screws, otherwise they lead a loanly life.
Übiquitous.
S. W. K.
¥ *
“A characteristic of those who dodge paying tram-
way fares is their sublime indifference to the
possible consequences.” —Melbourne witness.
Scalers don’t care.
* *
Brown’s wife has a face that is flawlessly
fair,
White his is disfigured with spots;
Absurd though it sounds, here’s a thing I can
swear:
Both get their complexions from pots.
* ¥
The N. S. Wales Government always takes
the line of least consistence.
FLOWERS OF SPEECH.
“The custom of ‘saying it with flowers’ is in-
creasing in popularity.”— -“World.”
Gifts of the week include a bouquet of
succulent dandelions from Mr. Bruce to his
chief, who retaliated with a bunch of modest
violets. The Federal U.A.P. presented a
sheaf of wallflowers to Mr. Scullin, the
gift including a sprig of mint for Mr.
Theodore. Mr. W. M. Hughes received a
bunch of sweet williams from Mr. W. M.
Hughes. Mr. Lang was the recipient of a
bouquet of love-in-a-mist from the State
Governor; a bunch of poison ivy. which
arrived simultaneously, was inscribed “From
a few Union Club friends.”
* *
“The girl was no doubt infatuated with Evans.
She met him whenever she could, though she knew
he was married.” — “Truth.”
He was her little bit of Evans, as the song
goes.
V *
LANG TO GO?
Dismissal by Governor?
Cessation of all State Activities?
This exclusive article by an eminent Constitu-
tional authority should solve many problems of
interest to the seeker after knowledge in N. S. Wales
in this year of grace 1952.- — Editor “Sun.”
Despite the rigid enforcement of the Garni-
shee Acts N.S.W. is still indebted to the
extent of £152,750,000 to the Commonwealth
for the payment of internal and external
interest. Will the Governor exercise his
indubitable constitutional authority? Will
lie send Lang before liis masters? Can the
Premier hold out any longer?
Since his 1932 Act extending the life of
Parliament by 25 years, Mr. Lang has con-
sistently refused to resign, and it is rumored
in Ministerial circles that a further amend-
ment, extending Parliament for another 10
years, is contemplated. Will the Common-
wealth now attach the Fan-tan and Pak-a-pu
revenues? Can Lang offer further resistance?
Will armed force be resorted to? It is
rumored in Trades Hall circles that Mr.
Lang will counter the latest Federal move
by ordering all work in the State to cease.
Can he do it? Would this not be ultra vires
the Constitution? Would the Governor view
it as an illegality? What would its effect be
on State revenues? Will it intimidate the
Commonwealth authorities? Mr. Lang made
it plain from his speech whispered last night
from the recesses of his bath-chair that he is
a desperate man. His unprecedentedly bitter
attack on the banking and financial institu-
tions, which, he wheezed, were in conjunction
with the foreign bondholders deliberately
grinding down the widow and orphan showed
his attitude to these interests, which he
THE TACTLESS AGE.
CIVIL SERVANT’S DAUGHTER: “Good-bye, Daddy! Happy
dreams!”
described between fits of asthmatical coughing
as parasites on the backs of the masses, whom
N.S.W. was now, fortunately, well rid of, as
they had gone to other less fortunate States
to carry bn their -un-Australian work.
The situation is fraught with grave possi-
bilities, and the Constitutional aspect herein
and herewith set out will enable the “Sun’s”
manifold readers to follow the position, which
is given in simple terms shorn of confusing
legal phraseology. Are the electors at last
to be able to exercise their undoubted rights
to a franchise Will this mean the end of
Langism What will be the Governor’s atti-
tude Will Downing-street intervene What
will be, the Commonwealth’s attitude
(Owing to an acute shortage, the omis
sion of interrogation marks above is regretted
—Ed. “Sun.' )
* ¥
From “Smith’s Weekly” :
“There was movement on the station, for the word
had passed around
That the cold from old Regret had got away.”
If Paterson must be amended, why not a
touch of sympathy?
And let’s hope these winter evenings, when pneu
monic colds abound,
That away from old Regret his cold will stav!
* #
“Despite the rain, the Governor smilingly unveiled
the statue.”
His Ex. decided to grin and bare it.
* *
COLOR SCHEME.
“The Seamen’s Union has declared Red literature
black.”
No doubt a few members were green
enough to think it ought to be white, but
the majority blue cold upon them and they
were done brown. One speaker, who was
obviously in the pink of condition and who
seemed to have plenty of grey matter, showed
himself no blushing violet as, in a series of
purple patches, he showed the harm dun by
the yellow press, whose hide he tanned. He
proved himself true-gold, and by general con-
sent deserved the bays he was accorded.
11. M.
* ■"
“A Melbourne daily announces the arrival of ‘De
Groot pudding.’ ”
It’s one of those you feel Languid after
eating, presumably.
' * *
“Fraulein Beinhorn is the first German girl to
fly to Australia.”
And now we may expect some Ilans across
the seas.
* #
“The ancient stood as if petrified.”— “World.”
The old fossil!
“Mr. Riley, M.H.R., accuses Mr. Lang of splitting
the Labor party into factions.” — “Argus.”
The biggest faction, of course, is the dis-
satis-faction.
“In a Central American jungle tribe the choice
of a husband is made by the woman, who takes,, him
home, where he must be seen and not heard.’
— “Herald.”
Another example of the spread of civilisa-
tion.
it At
“Bishop Land of the U.S.A. has withdrawn from
the Anti-Liquor Enforcement Campaign.”— Cable.
So silence falls on Land and See.
At
GRACIE’S MISFORTUNE.
H IM: "But Grade took the old fool for
better or for worse.”
HER: “No; she took him for worse, and he
went and got better.”
THE DOCTOR’S DILEMMA.
“A doctor friend said to me, ‘Since I have taken
an- interest in art my diagnostic faculty is twice as
keen, and my consulting-room is crowded with
patients.’ —-Norman ■ Lindsay in the “Sun.”
There are few jobs harder, these oofless
times, than trying to fill a room
With silly fools who fancy they're ill, I
had almost called it a day
When 1 thougnt, “Perhaps it might help a bit
to shift the financial gloom
If I cheered them up with talks upon art —
Art with a capital A.”
So I cadged a book from a highbrow friend,
and learned what I found inside;
And, after I’d opened a patient up (that
is, if he lived), I’d say:
“Well, what do we think of Rembrandt
now?” or “Gome! Gome! Who says
Hals is snide?”
Thus I tinctured my bedside manner with
art—Art with a capital A.
My room filled up in a week or so, but a
problem confronts me still —
The iiroblem, to put it in language plain,
of making the blighters pay.
It impresses itself afresh on me each time 1
send out a bill;
It’s there one has to make use of art
Art with a capital A.
10-2-4.
PARADISE LOST.
I had a vision yester-eve,
One that was marvellous to sec;
I thought a perfect paradise
Had flung its portals wide for me!
It was our bottle-merchant’s yard
Well stocked by lovers of the cup;
And I was standing there alone.
And all the empties were filled up!
T. W. N.
EYES WRITE.
The way some authors use their eyes
gives me delight: I love to read “His eyes
were opened with surprise” (like opening
the Bridge, indeed) ; “Slip let her dark eyes
drop,’* or “fall”: “she cast them upward to
the stars”; “she threw them swiftly round
the hall” ; “Her eyes went past the prison
bars”!
“Her eye fell on the dark wave’s crest” is
good, but other eyes are shocking;
c.g., “His eye was on her breast,” or “It
was fastened to her stocking.” And there
are eyes “brimful of fire,” or those that
tensely “shoot their hate”; or “they were
thrown upon the spire” or “rested softly on
the gate.”
The “ho, ho!” of the eye that laughs I
like in hours of ease to hear—-to catch the
eye, just as it quaffs, that “drinks the scene
in” (just like beer). I like to meet the
comic bloke who has “a good eye for a
horse.” His eye* —and this is not a joke—
at times “runs swiftly round the course.”
In books, stout woodsmen may be met
who “threw their eyes beyond the hills.”
I’ve read “His eye was on the bet” ; “Her
dark eyes flamed” oft gives me thrills. “She
threw her blue eyes up” has much affected
me; but what a stir is caused by the detec-
tive touch: “His stern, grey eyes arrested
her” !
“Her brown eyes scream” ; “His eye was
steel.” Through sorrow, deeds of high em-
prise, I follow, whilst my senses reel, the
wild adventures of the eyes.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
TIME’S CHANGES.
“A 40 per cent, drop in revenue from the enter-
tainments tax in *1930-31 compared with 1929-30
is shown in the annual report of the Commonwealth
Commissioner of Taxation.”
In happy 1929
We travelled off, in rain or shine,
To snigger at a movie show
Or growl “What tosh!’’ or shout “Good-
oh!”
To dream that Greta So-and-So
Was really yours—or really mine —
In happy 1929.
Oh, it was fine!
In dismal 1931
We really missed a lot of fun,
Because our funds would not permit
That wc should (to and look and sit.
We cut the flicks and did our bit
To grapple with the Taxing Hun.
Yes, hard-up 1931
Was in the gun!
But noio it’s 1932
We’ve learnt the proper thing to do.
Within our little homes we stay,
Shut entertainments right away,
And sto eet h ear ting’s the game we play.
There still are left us quite a few
Cheap, yet amusing, things to do
In ’32.
ANNA LEE.


u
m
\P
♦ ♦♦
..(Jo not'
a>v pui up->
n
du»S
a
SK
HOW many ways do you know to make sweets at home? These recipes for home-made
sweets are very simple. They show you the easy, inexpensive way to make good, healthful
sweets —sweets that everybody likes.
Sugar, the great energiser, is the main ingredient in every recipe. There is something about our
tropical soils and sunshine that makes it good. The sunshine is imprisoned in the sugar. The
energy is caught and held.
Sugar is a valuable food. It is human building material in the richest form; a delightful food
at that. Try these recipes for the pleasure of your family and friends.
VANILLA CREAM TAFFY.
2 Cups Sugar i Teaspoon Essence Vanilla
3 Tablespoons Butter 1 Teaspoon Cream of Tartar
2 Cup Boiling Water
Combine the sugar, water, butter and cream of tartar, and
boil steadily until a little when tried in cold water forms a
hard ball. Add the vanilla, pour on to a buttered plate
and cool until it can be pulled, occasionally turning the
edges towards the middle so that they will not become
brittle. Pull until white and creamy, lightly buttering the
hands. Stretch into a rope until 1 inch in diameter and
cut with scissors into pieces. Roll in waxed paper.
BUTTERSCOTCH.
3 Cups Sugar 1 Cup Boiling Water
2 Cup Butter a Teaspoon Essence Vanilla
Combine the butter, sugar and water, and boil until a little
tried in cold water is brittle. This takes about 45 minutes.
Add the vanilla, pour into a buttered pan. making the
mixture not more than one-quarter of an inch deep, and
just before it is cold mark into small squares with a but-
tered knife. Cover the butterscotch thickly with nut
meats, any kind, if desired.
WHITE CREAM TOFFEE.
lib. Castor Sugar Jib. Fresh Butter
3 Breakfast Cup Condensed Milk
Put the sugar in a saucepan and pour in condensed milk.
Pet simmer on a slow flame until melted; add t'he butter.
Now boil for 10 minutes (do not allow it to turn color),
then beat with a wooden spoon until thick. Pour on to a
greased tin to cool.
COCOA FUDGE.
4 Cups Sugar ~ Cups Milk
1 Level Tablespoons Cocoa Butter Size of Egg
Place cocoa into saucepan and stir into smooth paste by
adding part of milk. Add 4 cups of sugar, piece of butter
and all of milk except half-cup. Place on fire and boil.
Then add i cup of milk and cook until it forms a soft
ball when dropped into cold water. Take from fire, add
few drops vanilla and beat until it is just thick enough
to pour into buttered tins. By adding 4 cup of milk last
vou will find fudge to be free from grain and very smooth.
When cool score into blocks 1 inch square and break.
ENGLISH TOFFEE.
2 Cups Sugar 1 Dessertspoon Vinegar
1 Cup Water Eew drops Essence Vanilla
Place the sugar, water, vinegar and essence in a well-
greased pan and do not stir. Cook over a steady flame.
It is ready when a little dropped in cold water becomes
brittle. Almond toffee may be made from this mixture
by omitting the essence and adding 4oz. almonds blanched
and cut into strips.
GINGER TABLET.
21b. Sugar 2 Level Tablespoons Ground
1 Breakfastcup Water Ginger
Add the sugar to the water and when boiling remove the
scum. Boil until a little dropped in water will form a soft
ball. Take off fire, stir in ground ginger, beat until thick,
then pour in a greased tin.
inserted bp the <
Sugar
of the. People
R.S.M.
Listen-in to Mick Simmons’ Final Sporting
Resume, Station 2VW, Every Saturday.
Mick Simmons
•RIFLE
AND
h
w
m
m
i
;/
\M i
GOOD GUNS
FOR GOOD
SPORTSMEN!
Mick Simmons’ unrivalled range embraces
the world’s foremost manufacturers of
Firearms.
No. 18 -THE CERT D.8.8.L.
GUN, steel barrels, left choke, extension
rib, bar locks, crossbolt, „ -
walnut stock, pistol-grip . .
Carriage Paid.
No. 19—CERT D 8.8. L. HAM-
MERLFSS GUN, 12 or 20G.,
32in. steel barrels, choke, Greener cross-
bolt (Anson and Deeley
action) £7/12/0
Carriage Paid.
No. 22 MIDLAND D. 8.8. L.
SPECIAL HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12G-, 32in. barrels, left choke,
walnut stock, pistol- _ ,
grip £l4/2 O
Carriage paid.
No. 25— AMERICAN 3.8.8. L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.
32in. barrels, both choke, top lever, cross-
jolt, Anson and Deeley action;
weight about 7 Jib 3L O
Carriage Paid.
No. 26 - B.S.A. HAMMER-
LESS SHOT GUN, 12G., 30in.
barrels, both choke, nitro-proof, fluid
compressed steel barrels, automatic safety
pistol-grip; weight about
6ilb £l5/1 LI/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 5-HOLLIS* D.8.8.L.
GUN, 12G., top lever, 32in. barrels,
both choke, crossbolt;
weight about 71b 3t»lvl/l // O
Carriage Paid.
No. I—HARRINGTON and
RICHARDSON’S STEVEN’S
RIVERSIDE, or IVOR JOHN-
SON’S 5.8.8. L. GUN, 12G.,
top action, automatic self-ejecting, steel
barrel, solid, case-hardened, pistol-grip,
walnut stock; weight about
6 Alb 551-
Carriage Paid.
The New
No. 12 W INCHESTER
SINGLE-SHOT
RIFLE,
MODEL 60,
Price, 47/0
Postage 2/-: Other
States 3/6.
asdf
For 22-short,
long or long-
rifle rim-fire cart-
ridges; 2 3 in.
round steel barrel,
one-piece pistol-grip
stock, bolt action,
ladder rear- and gold-
bead front-sight; weight,
about 41lb.
MR. LIONEL H. BIBBY,
Australia’s Foremost Authority on
Guns, Rifles and Ballistics is entirely
at the service of sportsmen at
Mick Simmons!
Write for copy of New Shooting List.
Post Free.
MickSimmonsltd
HAY M A R Iv E T, SYBN E Y.
“The Premier Sports House of Australia.”
Answers to Correspondents.
-Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped, i
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Orderly L.: “I can write this kind of tiling
often —what is it worth in cash?” To us, nothing.
....Jobber: Letter forwarded, as desired.... The
Rajah of Bong: Laboriously churned verse; it might
have made a par J.K.S.: After the first verse it
descends into banality. .. .M.H.: It isn't much of a
sonnet. The phrasing is stilted and you can’t rhyme
“arc’’ with “work.” But don’t give up and turn
to weed-digging. Tackle some less hackneyed subject
in less cramping metre... .T.W.D,: Your “Horatius”
sank like a stone.... N.W.: Neat and compact, but
hardly in our line... .Poocha: All of them below
the mark... .G.P.D.: Villainous rhyming. And the
theme is dead as a doornail... .ILL.: Promising idea
handled carelessly... .8.T.: Sixteen, are you? Let
us hear from you when you have done some knocking
around. .. .E.E.W.: No snap in the dog story....
R.C.F.: Not this time; but you’re on the right track.
. .V.F.T.J.: A hoary tale... .M.S.M.: Couldn’t see our
way to print it even if there were a writers’ strike.
. ...R.D.8.: You’ll have to boil it down. . . .H.S.D.:
You describe things so seriously.... A.L.W.: Another
yarn about newcHum who tames station outlaw and
wins squatter’s daughter. That must be the ten-
thousandth. ... .H.T.M.8.: Found the bigamist
dreary.... C.P.S.: Both have a musty 5me11....
8.A.8.: Unconvincing... .T.W.: Frankly, it would
be dishonest to encourage you... .E.N.: If the shrew
wouldn’t swallow the tale, the basket did. .. ,'L.G.F.:
He was a wordy derelict and we shed no tears when
the crocodile got him....W.5.: Says nothing new.
... . M.J.R.: All your talent seems to have gone into
the opening line. . . .D.A.: Gave us a headache. .. .
W.C.H.: Why do you crowd so many words on a sheet
of foolscap ? And why do people who write on foolscap
write tosh ? F. J.: Labored.... R. A.C?.: A story
there, but you buried it under a heap of rubbish.
... .V.J.: No desire to explore the interior of a
mental hospital with so green a writer... .W.C.8.:
Started badly and finished worse.... W.T.L.: In
fiction he might marry the girl; in real life he
rarely does... ,R.F.: Very immature... .L.C.: You
overwork your adjectives... .F.T.: Quite promising;
strengthened, it would be a good tale. .. .W.K.H.:
“Wild Bill” is not for us F.M.T.: Theme is old
and treatment not entertaining. .. .F.S.: A brighter
pen might have made something out of it.... E.W.D.:
Not enough in the yarn for a par., let alone a story.
C.A.: Can’t use your indictment of curates who
make eyes at lady organists W.K.R.: What
patient listeners congregate in clubs!.... G.F.K.: No
particular merit.... John H.: No luck yet, but your
verse is becoming clearer. .. .N.L.G.: “Time” is too
prosy, and your “Road” has no allure. .. .Tidapa:
There have been two Recorders, then. Thanks !... .
D.D.S.: Your “Golden Day” is a pretty
exercise in rhyming. .. . AV.H.L.: Beethoven sonnet
not up to subject.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.J.T.: You have the knack of making: your people
look real, but they utter such inanities.. . .C.H.W.:
Whoever told you we would accept those atrocities
was pulling your leg. .. .P.L.: Jest has whiskers a
mile 10ng... .C.8.D.: Promising... .T.G.: Prepared
to buy original jokes without drawings... . J.R.T.:
You commit all the artistic crimes in the calendar.
. ...L.W.: Get more familiar with the subject before
attempting to draw it....R.M.: Don't copy;
cultivate a style of your own... .E.S.: Hoarding-
house bores have been circulating that wheeze
for decades... .0.F.: Framework not bad; you
slipped when it came to putting in the detail.
.. . .8.W.: Gent, with eyeglass is lopsided... .D.A.S.:
Feeble little picture; feeble little pun....K.M.: Has
all the faults of the inexperienced hand...-T.E.J.:
Can’t you draw two people without making them
look like the Siamese twins?... .N.A.: Drawing is
just bearable ; can’t trust ourselves to say anything
about the joke G.S.: Apart from vour neglect to
give the flapper ears, you haven’t done badly....
A.E.W.: Try working with a less fine nib and with
a smoother board... .C. 8.11.: Burning the midnight
oil in that fashion will bring you no money to burn.
. ...L.R.: What the numskull on the left is saying
to the blockhead on the right is balderdash....
J.M.M.: Yes, we recall your previous effort —pain-
fully ... .H.S.: Pointless jest... .R.G.: Have looked
at it from north, south, east and west. What is
it all about? M.F.J.: Abo.’s left foot looks
correct; the rest of him is awful. .. .E.N.P.: All
old war-time chestnuts.


HARD'T'S
SJPA RK.LIJVG
BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
PRACTICAL BIRTH CONTROL, by Hornibrook, 5/-
Married Love, by Ur. Marie Stopes, 3/3 ; Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/10 ; Sex at
Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 11/5: The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10; Enduring-
Passion, by Marie Stopes, 7/10’; Contraception—Birth Control, Its Theory, History and Practice,
by Marie Carmichael Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the
Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/10; The New Toxology—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/-; Sex
Knowledge, by N. March, 1/8; Love and Marriage, by Scott Hall, 13/3; Exercises for Women,
by Hornibrook, 5/4; Secrets of Successful Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4 ; Realities
of Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4; Youth and Maidenhood, by W. M. Gallichan, 4/6;
The Perfect Wife, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11 ; The Happy Lover, by Dr. G. Courtenay
Beale, 1/11; Eugenics and Birth Control, by J. Rutgers, M.D., 15/6 ; Pitfalls of Marriage, by
W. M. Gallichan, 6/3 ; Wise Wedlock, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/3 ; Medical Views on
Birth Control, 6/4; Canary Breeding for Beginners, 2/9; Physical Culture Simplified—A Complete
Course of Physical Culture, 6/3 ; The Culture of the Abdomen, by Hornibrook, 7/10; Sex
Problems and Their Solution, by Haydn Brown, 5/5; Sexual Science, by Dr. A. A. Phillip, 4/6;
Knowledge a Young Wife Should Have, by Phillip, 4/6 ; The Book of Nature, 3/9 ; Contract
CRICKET ENTHUSIASTS
will be glad to know that they can now procure
Wisden’s Cricketers* Almanac, 1932
containing full scores and bowling analysis of all important
matches played in 1931.
JUST ARRIVED! PRICE (post free), 9/-
Bridge, by Ely Cuthbertson; 8/6 ; Contract Bridge in Twenty Minutes, 1/11 ; How to Become an
Effective Public Speaker, 2/2; Mayes’ Australian Builders’ Price Book, 15/6; Menus Made Easy,
by Nancy Lake, 5/4 ; Cocktails and How to Mix Them, 3/11 ; Aust. Nuts and Nut Growing in
Aust., by Rumsey, 2/4; Foulsham’s Letter Writer, 3/4; Chambers’s Twentieth-century Dictionary,
13/4; Cards for Three, by Basil Dalton, M.A., 3/1; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle Up
to Date”), 2/8; Popular Card Games and How to Play and Win, by F. Ings, 1/5; The Book
of Luck, by H. G. Souter, 1/5; Foulsham’s Best Short Prose Recitations, 3/4; House’s Canary
Manual,” 2/9; Table Rapping, 2/6; 12 Best Indoor Games for Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6; Ward
Lock’s Letter Writev for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; The Companion
Letter Writer, 2/8; How to Read the Hand, by Karma, 4/-; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs,
1/11; Plumbing, Soldering and Brazing for Amateurs, 1/11; Furniture Repairing for Amateurs,
1/11; Upholstery for Amateurs, 1/11; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5 ; Cassell’s Concise English
Dictionary, 3/2 ; Painting, Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/6 ; Every Man His Own
Mechanic, 9/- ; Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/1 ; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches and
Toasts, 3/-; Boot and Shoe Repairing, 1/11; Clock and Watch Repairing, 1/11; Double-bed
Dialogues, 1/2 ; Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 3/9 ; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes,
26/-; Napoleon’s Book of Fate, 3/4 ; Zadkeil’s Dream Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4; Cheiro
Guide to the Hand, 4/1 ; The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3 ; Universal Trade Reckoner,
4/3; Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Prospecting for Gold
(Australian), by lon Idriess, 5/3; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; A to Z of
Australian Fruitgrowing, by Rumsey, 2/2 ; Fortune Telling by Tea-leaves, 2/- : Diesel Engine, by
Jones—Special Price-—l5/-; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 5/3 ; 1(101 Riddles, New and Old,
2/2; Lee’s Guide to the Game of Draughts, 4/6; Chess Lessons for Beginners, 2/6; Chess and
Draughts, by Belasco, 1/5; How to Repair and Restring Tennis Racquets, 3/- ; Motor Repair
Manual, 4/7; Motor Electrical Manual, 4/7; Guide for the Chairman and Secretary, 3/2; The
Modern Letter Writer, 2/9; Hypnotism Simplified, by Martin, 1/11 ; Hand-reading Made Easy,
by Noel Jaquin, 4/6; Parenthood —a Manual of Birth Control, by Fielding, 4/- ; Love and
Marriage, by Winifred Scott Hall, 13/- ; Sex Knowledge—with special chapter On birth control,
1/8; The Why and How of Birth Control, by Dr. Adamson, 4/7 ; How to Mesmerise, by Janet
Coates, 3/3 ; The Mastery of Sex, by L. D. Weatherhead —-a vital book, 5/5 ; Universal Cookery
Book, One Thousand Recipes, 1/3 —we recommend it.
WRITE FOR LISTS
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Booksellers, Librarians, Tobacconists, Stationers, Newsagents, Kodak Sup-pliers,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS. SYDNEY.
THE “SUNTYNE”
COMBINED GRAIN AND FERTILIZER DRILL
AND SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR
W
*
as
I-;-::-,..
I !
1
■
m
SUNIYNE
OWS
CIENTIFICALLY
THE “SUNTYNE,” by placing the seed with the superphosphate
exactly where it gets the most benefit from the available moisture,
hastens germination, ensures vigorous early growth, and gives the
crop ever*' opportunity for healthy development from the start.
POINTS WORTH REMEMBERING.
SOWS SEVEN INCHES APART—AT UNIFORM DEPTH
FLEXIBLE FLOATS—SAVE TYNE BREAKAGES
ALL-STEEL LID—KEEPS SEED AND SUPER. DRY
FORWARD LEVER—AVAILABLE FOR TRACTOR USE
FULL PARTICULARS, PRICES AND TERMS ALWAYS AVAILABLE FROM
H. V. McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY. LTD.
/ SUNSHINE \
V SECTION )
“SUNSHINE
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
BRANCHES: MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE.
FARM IMPLEMENTS WORK WELL AND LAST LONG”


YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Insist on “RAY BEST OS”—with the Silver
Edge, Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
sadf
Representative: J. ARNOLD. G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
The “Kismet” ? 31 is the most scientific
instrument yet designed for the accurate
recording of air pressure in pneumatic
tyres.
It is a dead accurate gauge. Absolute accuracy
in reading and ready visibility is ensured by
wide spacing of progressive pressure readings,
calibrated individually in large figures on a fiat
surface. There is no rubber sack, and nothing
to get out of order.
Supplied in neat leather wallet—
in three models, Balloon, High
Pressure, Giant.
V
m
fiX
y KX&
CS:
ass
m
%
The most*
accurate
GAUGE on
the market
-its 'B’ufisjL
’3l
TYRE
TESTER
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO„ LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Reprcsentat ive:
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
W EED-DESTR O Y ERS.
"R. K. Deea” : A weed is something grow-
ing where it is not wanted. There are many
methods of eradication, of which the most
common are cultivation or manuring, after
cutting the pest, and heavily overstocking.
Overstocking is most effective in the case of
bracken, St. John's wort and the like. Pad-
docks in the north-east of Victoria, heavily
infested with St. John’s wort and practically
useless, have in recent years been converted
into quite decent grazing areas by the simple
expedient of cutting with the mower, manuring
with lewt. super, per acre, and then heavily
overstocking with sheep. Rye and cocksfoot
sown with the fertiliser, together with the
sheep, have knocked back the pest, and in
a few years only isolated plants will be
present; these receive separate and drastic
hand treatment. In the most obstinate cases
a weed or plant may be destroyed with chemi-
cals—poisonous or non-poisonous.
Poisonous weed-destroyers are not only
deadly to the plant but are extremely dan-
gerous to have or to use on the farm. For
(his reason farmers hesitate to buy them.
There are many non-poisonous destroyers
which give admirable results when applied
to weed pests whose habit of growth gives the
chemicals a chance to do their work.
Some years ago I came across a farmer
busily engaged top-dressing a 23-acre pad-
dock with sulphate of iron in an attempt to
eradicate tulip weed. He had not considered
that, as the bulbs were six inches below the
surface, the chances of success were remote.
Sulphate of iron in this case was worth only
a small trial, instead of tackling the whole
field and farm in one issue—a waste of
time and money.
Habits and growth of the weed or weeds
should be carefully studied before any
scheme of eradication, based on non-poison-
ous weed-destroyers, is attempted. Deep-
rooted plants, such as docks and dandelion,
are much harder to kill or eradicate than,
say, chick weed "or plantain, with their shallow
root system.
Non-poisonous weed-destroyers should be
applied in dry and hot weather. Heavy rain
immediately after an application will spoil
the action of the chemical. Then there is the
deleterious residual effect on the soil, produced
by sodium chlorate, for example. This resi-
dual effect will depend upon climate and the
season of spraying or top-dressing. Couch
grass, bindweed and thistles in the orchard
may be destroyed by applying 2cwt. of sodium
chlorate per acre in the autumn. In the
case of patches of weed, apply at the above
rate. There will be a residual effect under
dry conditions, but the heavier the annual
rainfall the less chance of this trouble.
With deep-rooted trees like apples and
pears the danger is only slight, but with
shallow-feeding roots, as in the case of
citrus trees, the residual effect, is such that
the trees may suffer as much harm as the
weed, particularly if the year turns out a
dry one.
Couch grass may be destroyed on broad
acres by applying sodium chlorate in three
dressings of 1001 b. each —the first in the
late spring, the second in the summer, the
third in the early autumn. The field may
then be sown in the following spring without
any harmful residual effect. Where heavy
dressings of sodium chlorate are applied in
one dressing, it is advisable to fallow for a
season prior to sowing.
There are other chemical weed-destroyers
worthy of trial before recourse is finally
made to the poisonous commodity. A 30 p.c.
solution of ammonium sulphate (the ferti-
liser), at the rate of 60 gallons per acre,
will destroy broad-leafed plants without in-
juring the * good grasses or soil. A 3 p.c.
solution of blue.stone, if applied to the young-
plants at the rate of 40 gallons, has been
found to give good results, and. like ammo-
nium sulphate, it, improves the soil. Sulphate
of iron has long been recognised as a remedy
for charlock and similar weeds, applied in
fine powder at the rate of 4cwt. per acre. A
mixture of sulphate of iron, one part, and
common salt, 3 parts, at the rate of 3cwt.
per acre, has been found effective in eradi-
cating ragwort, particularly if the plants
are not more than three inches high, and
have been previously bruised with the roller.
Always try a non-poisonous weed-destroyer
before committing yourself to the purchase
of a dangerous poisonous one.
HERD-TESTING PAYS.
“Rochester”: I have been dairying in a
Vic. irrigation district since 1920. My cows
were bought mostly in saleyards on appear-
ance, and I considered I had a fair average
herd (returns from the butter factory were
about 2201 b. of butterfat) till I joined the
Herd-Testing Association, ror three or four
months of the lactation period there was no
great difference in individual returns, but l
found that soon after the cows got in
calf again there was a marked variation m
individual yield. By the end of the testing
season we knew the consistent produceis,
and about 15 good-looking cows were sent
to the butcher.
I had purchased a young Jersey bub
from a leading breeder. The first drop of
heifers took the place of cows culled. Aver-
age production was lifted Stub, per head
of butterfat, though about one-third of the
herd were two-year-olds. The job. was get-
ting interesting, and naturally the cows re-
ceived more attention when milking, ana
also during the few weeks they were dry.
We discovered as we continued testing that
the cow reasonably spelled at eight to ten
weeks was the cow that gave the butterfat
in the spring and continued right through
the season. During the dry period she got
a liberal allowance of lucerne hay in addi-
tion to what she could pick up in the pad-
dock. I still continued culling odd cows
and replacing them with our own heifers. .At
the end of the third season factory returns
were 3501 b. of butterfat as against —b.
the first year of testing. We have main-
tained it round about that figure ever since,
My advice to dairymen is to give every
cow at least eight to ten weeks rest and feed
her liberally on lucerne bay during that time
—lucerne hay, being rich in lime, is more
valuable for building up the system than
oaten hay. As to drying off, if you are going
to do it by a gradual process your cow is
not going to get the spell due to her. Our
method is to slacken the feed. _ Cut out hand
feed for a few days ; this will reduce her
milk flow. Then milk the cow right out,
seal U P the teats with collodion and turn
her out. The udder will appear distended
for a few days, but will soon slacken and
dry up very quickly. The cow can then
be put on the best of feed and start her
preparation for the next lactation.
————
COTTON-SEED AND LINSEED MEAL,
“FT.” - “Jack Point” (B. 20/4/’32) sug-
gests* adding cotton-seed hull’bran to decorti-
oate(j co tton-seed meal. Cotton-seed hull bran
contains .2 p.c. digestible protein and 35.5 p.c.
total digestible nutrients, its nutritive ratio
heing j to 17(5.5. j t would therefore be
of very little feeding v,ilue, especially as
1)rotc j n j s the important part of supplemen-
tary rations fed under Queensland condi-
tjons. Moreover, its content of fibre (34.8
p . c>) wou id have a harmful effect, particu-
]arly during a dry spell, keeping in mind
the oil content of the cotton-seed meal
j g cos tive
' Far bo t te r would it be to feed as a sup-
pi ement to any bulk foods available the
e q lia i parts of pure decorticated cotton-seed
cake and linseed-oil meal. Our Australian
lingee d-oil meal contains approximately 7
p . c . to 8p c . of medicinal oil, which has a
laxative action, and would therefore neutralise
the effect of t he cotton-seed oil. Moreover,
j^ g protein content (30 p.c. digestible pro-
texn) is of considerable value in that it con-
tains certain of the amino acids largely
deficient in the protein of grasses, etc., so
( ba ( be va ] ue< j no t only for the quan-
tity, but also for the quality of the proteins
p v e sent.
“Jack Point” raises an interesting point
j u re i a tion to the fertilising value of decor-
ticated cotton-seed meal. This is greatly
enhanced by the addition of linseed meal,
10( ) 01b . of which has a content of 54.21 b.
nitrogen. 17.01 b. phosphoric acid and 12.71 b.
po ( as h.
Anvrrv m
CELLING AND CLASSING,
“Murrawong” : Inquiring into complaints
that the Australian wool clip is deteriorat-
ing, W. P. Devereux was told in Europe
that “the general standard of our merino
clip meets the requirements of the trade.”
He was advised, however, that “sheep-
breeders should be on the alert to eliminate
sheep having straight-haired fibres,” and “the
vital necessity for small, as well as large,
clips to be evenly classed according to quality,
length and condition” was also stressed,
There is an astonishingly large number of
breeders who cannot recognise “straight-
haired fibres,” “doggy” wool, “starey,” “gair,”
or by whatever name it may be called. I have
seen an owner proudly exhibit a fleece bristl-
ing with kemp; it was a big bulky
fleece, pure white in color as kempy fleeces
usually are, and his ideas of quality and
evenness simply did not exist. If there are
hairy fibres in a fleece they will show up
round the britch or in the neck folds. Cull
that sheep immediately and finally.
And there are as many varieties of classers
as there are politicians. It is false economy
to employ a classer below award rates; he
is only gaining experience at your expense.
The chief difficulty is with the small breeder
who cannot afford to employ a classer, but
that problem can be solved by the establish-
ment of depot shearing-sheds with eight to
twelve good shearers and a reliable classer
and staff. By this means the farmer or
selector is saved the expense of building his
own shed; he may have to drive his sheep
a little farther, but instead of his shearing
lasting three to four weeks, with the prospect
of additional delays with wet weather, he has
his mob shorn in three to four days. H'e has
therefore saved a couple, of weeks; the cost
will probably be less than if he did his own
shearing; and, the most important point.of
all, he has had his woo] handled by experts.
There should be no need to build a special
depot shed; every district has several suit-
able sheds left on subdivided properties. It
requires only a little organisation—there are
shearing companies who will even do that
for you—and the man with 1000 sheep or
less can have his wool handled with the
same care as the man with 10,000.
SELECTING A DORSET RAM.
“Golightly”: He should have a good mas-
culine head with massive horns, somewhat
like a merino’s, enlarged but nqt so deeply
corrugated, broad and coming flatly away
from the head, with a good topknot of wool
between and on the forehead. The face
should be long and very broad, with a
rounded, bold muzzle; lips and nose hofiey-
colorcd; face and ears covered with soft,
creamy-white hair, with no wool in front
of eyes—too much muffling of wool about, the
head denotes a weak, slow-thriving sheep:
neck short, thick and well-rounded across
the wither. On handling the shoulder-blades
must be well apart. The spine should run
level from the base of neck to the setting-
on of tail, with no perceptible rise of the
loins or depression behind shoulders. Dor-
sets are inclined to unevenness here, but it
ought to be avoided.
The rump must be rounded and well de-
veloped to a second thigh ; tail, broad and
set on a little high—a Dorset with a weak
or scraggy tail is objectionable; leg of mut-
ton. full and well let down; legs below knees
and hocks standing well apart, falling
straight from the sheep, with no inclination
inwards at knees or hocks, and covered with
soft, creamy-white hair, minus black spots
or brown hair. Feet, honey-colored, should
be compact and firmly set—a loose, sprawl-
ing foot brings trouble; twist, well arched;
ribs, well sprung; breast, broad and deep;
body, well let down to form a good bottom
line. The wool is one of the finest type of
the British breeds, is of fair length, rather
straight and plain in the curves; a white
chalky-looking wool, free from grey or black
fibre. Too much bare skin under the arms
or inside hind legs and thighs is to be
avoided. The live weight of a mature
Dorset jam, in prime condition, is about
2401 b.
INSURING FARM CROPS.
“Valerin”; Some months ago I drew atten-
tion to what was being done at Rothamsted
in working out a scheme to insure crops
against loss due to climatic aberrations. In
a letter I received recently the director (Sir
John Russell) writes; “We are getting on
with the question of insurance for farm
crops, but there remains a great amount of
spadework to be done before we shall have
the material that could go into the formation
of a definite scheme. We are learning to
forecast the probable yield and probable
quality of crops under different weather con-
ditions. When we have got these tables
better advanced we shall be much nearer
our goal.”
In view of the possibility of the scheme
assuming a concrete shape, might not our
Agricultural Departments inaugurate a plan
to utilise their experiment farms to trace
the effect of rain week by week on the yield
and quality of wheat crops, and on crops
grown under different manurial or cultural
conditions, in order to learn how crops, fertil-
isers, etc., behave in different seasons? Data
could be collated that would hasten the in-
ception of an insurance scheme.
ANAEMIA IN YOUNG PIGS.
• “Alf Alpha” : The inclusion of iron oxide
(rust) in the sow’s ration has been found
useful in preventing anaemia in suckling pigs.
This is due not to the iron going into the
sow’s system, and hence through the milk
to the suckling piglet, but to the fact that
the youngster consumes some of his parent’s
tucker.
Recent work in connection with the import-
ance of copper in anaemia prevention has
given definite proof of its efficiency. Experi-
ments made in U.S.A. with the' object of
determining tlie best method of applying iron
and copper to young pigs resulted in the
recommendation that the teats of the sow be
painted with a solution of copper and iron.
The best solution for this purpose may be
made by dissolving 540 z. of copper sulphate
(Milestone) in a gallon of water by boiling
and then slowly adding, with continued stir-
ring, 21b. of finely powdered citrate of iron,
procurable at the chemist’s.
Steep a pound of maize-meal in a quart of
water, and mix the two solutions together.
Apply to the udder once daily by means of a
paint-brush.
ORANGE-GROWING IN QUEENSLAND.
“Friar Tuck”: “W.M.F.” (B. 20/4/’32)
may appear unorthodox in his cultural
methods, but he is not alone. I have a
young citrus orchard in the Glass House
Mountains district (S.Q.) ; mine are seed-
ling trees. Four years ago an inspector told
me that if I did not plough my trees they
would die. I have not put the plough into
the paddock .since, and have this year come
through the worst drought for many years
without the trees dropping their fruit. Men
who have systematically ploughed to suppress
surface roots are feeling the pinch badly.
Surface-working of the ground is all that is
needed, unless there is a hard subsoil, bui
then don’t plant citrus on such a soil. The
best soil for citrus is a deep sar. dy alluvial
loam in a well-sheltered position.
And I am convinced that heading back and
pruning are fatal mistakes. If a tree is
heavily pruned it will send out hundreds of
shoots to replace the parts cut away. It. is
the tree’s natural effort to grow a top to
shade the bark. A man once advised me jo
slit the bark to relieve bark-bound; he said
they always did it down south. I am not
troubled with bark-bound, as I leave the
trees alone to grow a top to protect the
bark from the sun: Cut out all growth grow-
ing inwards, downwards or crossing, and thin
out lightly the rest, if necessary.
Some men spend half their income on
sprays and dusting powders. I pin my faith
to the cheap sulphide-of-soda-resin-wash mix
tore; this I find effective for everything
except ramallaria scab of mandarins, for
which I recommend ammonium carbonate 1 of
copper. Never spray while trees arc suffer-
ing from drought, or you will do more harm
than good. 1
For fertilising, animal manures and green
manuring are undoubtedly the best, but if
necessary supplement these with sulphate of
potash, sulphate of ammonia, Nauru phos-
phates or basic slag and lime. Regarding
varieties, the fruit-fly gets Valencias in this
district, and the navel is a shy bearer. 1
have seedling trees, the fruit of which is as
large as the navel; it is a heavier bearer,
and fetches top price in the market, so don't
talk to me about navels. What suits one
district does not suit another.
I have not seen a really efficient imple-
ment for cultivating an orchard. What is
required is something that will cut up a
green crop and stir it into the surface soil,
leaving the ground mulched on top without
going deep enough to cut the roots. If any
Australian manufacturer is interested, I am
prepared to explain the type of machine
needed and give a rough design.
BREEDING 300-EGGS-A-YEAR HENS.
“Jack Point” : Like begets like. A high-
producing hen possesses exceptional vigor;
therefore she may be used as a breeder for
as long as she lives. She should be mated
with a male bird whose maternal ancestors
have been tested and proved high-producers.
Some breeders go even further and mate
their very best hens only with cocks which
have already sired daughters that have been
trapnested or single-tested, and are thus
known to be prepotent. This takes time, but
it reduces the element of chance to vanishing
point.
Sizes of bird and egg are important con-
siderations. It is much easier to breed a
300-egger laying underweight eggs than those
of standard size. The careful breeder, how-
ever, who has always culled the undersized
hen which usually lays small eggs, finds
that, breeding along the right lines towards
gradual but sure improvement, his very
best hens are well up to weight and so
are their eggs. This follows the funda-
mental law; the greater a bird or animal's
constitutional vigor and capacity to assimi-
late food, the greater will be its production.
CARE OF FENCE POSTS.
“Booraby”: The first thing to do, when
the timber is green and easily. worked, is
to trim them with squaring axe and adze.
Most fencers put them up with numerous
jags and splinters on the edges. These lessen
the life of the posts by holding-the wet and
dust; and they catch alight and cause the
destruction of the fence when fires sweep
through. With smooth and even surfaces
it is easier and less. expensive to treat them
with creosote or tar, if such is used.
For rail fences, the mortising should also
be done at once. Boring for wire is nearly
(Continued on page 26.)


\
mm
m
x-
-1 w
w
Mm v
I
gKr Jggljl
kb •
Never tight!
Your foot in one of these
double-soled Abbey Boots is
extra comfortable. . . right from
the first time on. That’s be-
cause of its special design....
of the easy-fitting curve of the
upper where it lies over the in-
step arch. It’s the ideal boot for
the active man... neat and
glossy, and guaranteed for
longer wear.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings in
every size. Specify width and length,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) ,
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 45/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 43/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 280
HAPPY FACE
SMILING
EYES
CHILDREN FREE OF
CONSTIPATION
“Internal harmony” is the secret of
health and happiness. Constipation
—no matter how slight—poisons
and clogs the entire system, causing
dull eyes, sluggishness and loss of
vigor. In the life of every child
(and every adult) there are times
when Nature requires gentle but
firm assistance. Figsen co-operates
in an ideal way on such occasions.
It brings about the elimination of
impurities but causes neither dis«
comfort nor pain. Figsen is certain
—but it does not purge or gripe.
*2
§mm
•V'-V-
N«L
Your Chemist
sells and
recommends
©
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
THINK OP
sdf
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sylnty.
AIjS I KALIANS visiting London should road the “British Australian and
New Zealander,’’ 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in Europe and at home. Australians are
cordially invited to visit the “British Australian and New Zealander” Reading-room at
the offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use _ the telephone and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information can b<> obtained at the Australian Adver-
tising Agency, Ltd. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or 493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BkYOUR SEARCH
IS ENDED-
In Diamond Radio Batteries and
Torch Refills you will find the
best, the most satisfactory, and
the cheapest batteries procurable.
Diamonds have been tested and
proved over many years to give
longer service, which means
greater dependability and less
cost.
Sold by every dealer throughout Australia.
DIAMOND
RADIO BATTERIES &
TORCH REFILLS.
always done after the posts are up. This is
an advantage with brace and bit; but with
a boring machine the job can be done ex-
peditiously in the shade of a tree. The bit
cuts quickly through the green wood, and
the measure is always on the spot.
At this stage also I like to give the tops
of the posts, especially mortised posts, a
dab of tar or other preservative. Some
fencers hold that such treatment should
not be applied until the posts have been pro-
perly seasoned. Seasoning is merely the
escape or drying out of sap or moisture. This
is best done by stacking loosely in succes-
sive cross layers, as described in a recent
article, but with the butt ends towards the
sun and slightly downwards if in the open.
The top ends get all the sun when erected,
and for that reason should be kept on the
shaded side of the stack when seasoning,
coated as soon as stacked and again when
dry, to prevent cracking. Hardwoods com-
monly used seldom split, but little cracks
start decay. Bottoms of the posts should be
coated before being put in the ground, to
prevent the absorption of moisture, but
the posts must be properly dry before these
ends are painted in any way.
These simple bush methods of preserva-
. tion are the most that 95 per cent, of fencers
or landholders will adopt.
A common custom is to leave a big butt on
the posts with a shoulder near the surface
of the ground, to make them hold better.
This is a mistake, as the shoulder helps to
rot them. A post should run straight and
smoothly from end to end. As the part
from nearest the stump goes in the ground,
and is always heavier than the upper part, it
is butt enough even for a stockyard. Besides
that, the straight post is less trouble to work,
to stack, and to put up. Another common
practice, in wire fencing, is to use heavier
posts for strainers. This is not necessary,
except at corners and gates, as there is the
same strain or weight at each side of the
posts. Bigger posts only make more work.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Can wheat he successfully grown in
the coastal districts of N.S.W. to make
wheaten chaff for farm use? (2) Best
variety? (3) Time to plant? (4) How
much seed to the acre? (5) Does seed need
any treatment before planting? —9496.
(1) Yes; but the quality of the hay is
generally not as satisfactory as that grown
in inland districts, neither is the feeding-
value quite so good, as the hay generally
depreciates when rain falls while it is curing
in the field. (2) Clarendon. (3) April or
May. (4) 1| bushels per acre, preferably
with an application of lewt. superphosphate
per acre. (5) No.
(1) In the coastal districts of N. S. Wales
with a 45 in. rainfall would a clean fallow he
more beneficial than growing a crop <:f
legumes for green manure on autumn-
ploughed land in preparation for spring
crops? (2) How long should a green crop
he ploughed in before planting the soil? (3)
Do lupins make a satisfactory green manure?
—9495.
(1) and (2) The green crop would be
more beneficial provided it can be ploughed
down a month or two before sowing in
order to allow sufficient time for decomposi-
tion. (3) Lupins arc fairly satisfactory,
but better results would be obtained with
field peas, sown at the rate of one bushel per
acre.
What are the relative values of the fol-
lowing for agricultural purposes: (1) Build-
ers' quick lime? (2) Air-slacked builders'
lime? (3) Ground limestone? (4) Ground
shell lime? (5) Hen manure for orchard
trees? —9295.
Ten quarts of quicklime by weight are
equal to 13 of slaked lime, or 18 of
ground limestone or ground _ shells. Poul-
try manure varies in composition according
fo the amount of litter present. A, good
poultry manure should contain, when dry,
nitrogen, 2 p.c., plios. acid., 1.5 p.c. and
potash, 8 p.c.
Method of getting rid of reeds in drains
in which the tide ebbs and flows from a
river? —9493.
Cut the reeds as deeply as possible below
the ground. Poison is not satisfactory.
Could peanuts he grown in the N.S. W.
western district, and how are they culti-
vated? —9346.
Country is unsuitable, and the market
is not bright at present. A leaflet, “The
Peanut,” obtainable from the N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Dept., describes method of cultiva-
tion.
Method of preparing kerosene emulsion
spray for garden and orchard use? —9557.
Dissolve Alb. hard soap in lga 1. boiling
water; remove this from the fire and stir in
lgal. kerosene; then immediately pump the
whole from one vessel into another, or back
into the same vessel. Treat the above as the
stock solution, and dilute it to make up to
llgal. with boiling water. For tender plants
dilute with more water. Soft water only
should be used for mixing and diluting.
Treatment for worms in horses? —-9677.
There are various sorts of worms which
invade the stomach and intestines of horses.
In the stomach a small thread-like worm
causes tumors in the walls of the organs; in
the small intestines, large white worms are
found; in the large intestines (caecum and
colon) blood worms may be abundant, and
in the straight gut the pin worm may pro-
duce irritation. Give a wormy horse two
tablespoons of Fowler’s solution of arsenic
in the morning feed for eight days, and then
give a pint of raw linseed oil. For irritation
in the rectum give an enema of salt and
water, a teaspoon to a quart.
(1) Where can marram-grass seeds be
obtained? (2) How is the grass planted for
sand reclamation? —9sol.
(1) Seed is not used. Roots are obtain-
able from the Van Diemen Land Co., Burnie
(Tas.). (2) It is necessary to erect fences
of tea-tree or other suitable material, which
will help to check the force of the prevail-
ing winds; these fences must be erected at
right angles to the direction from which the
strongest winds blow, and the first one about
30 yards above high-water mark. The first
fence is designed to create a foredune, which
will later on serve as a natural breakwind.
If the first fence becomes covered up and
the foredune is not high enough to prevent
the drift of sand behind it, another fence
will have to be erected on top of the first
one, and later on perhaps still another until
a suitable foredune is established. Once the
sand is held satisfactorily, planting of the
whole of the foredune should be carried out;
then plant the area at the rear of the fore-
dune. Plant across the direction of the pre-
vailing winds. Put out the plants 3ft. apart,
not one behind the other, but alternately in
adjacent rows. Eacli plant must consist of
a piece of stem with leaves attached, and the
stem must have at its base one, or prefer-
ably two, nodes or joints; smaller sections
of the plant cannot be satisfactorily estab-
lished. The best times to plant are autumn,
winter and early spring.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Mug Bushman” : Shovellers who wear the
soles of their boots out rapidly should try
soling them with motor-tyre. Use a tyre
with a worn tread, and attach with ordinary
wood screws about fin. in length. They
don't cut like leather.
“G.J.A.S.”: Don’t throw away your old
binder drive-chains; they make good hoops
for the salt-meat cask. Ordinary iron hoops
soon rust through with the action of the
salt. Join up the necessary number of old
links into the size of hoop you may require,
drop over the cask, drive them into position
and they will last for years. It is a good
plan to drive in a small light staple here
and there on the lower side of the hoops.
“Bloss”: Sheepdogs crippled by barley
grass-seed can be relieved by the use of
bluestone. Place their feet in a pint of
hot water (the hotter the better) with 2oz.
of bluestone dissolved in it. Once a day is
necessary, and the dogs should be tied up.
A week of this treatment and they are ready
for work again.
“Bidgee-Widgee”: For scours in young
stock nothing is better or cheaper than tan-
liquor from wattle-bark. Make fairly strong,
and give a small cupful to a poddy and about
half as much to a lamb. In the case of
the poddy it can be given in the milk. It
is best to make the liquor in an enamelled
or aluminium vessel, as iron gives it a
nastier taste.
“Mulyan” : To get Reynard's scalp on the
spot where the bait is laid, make a hole
several inches deep in the ground with a
pointed stick, pour some sardine oil into it,
and place the bait on top. After taking the
bait, tin 4 hole will keep the fox interested
long enough for the poison to act.
“Beefo”: The advice tendered by “Dip'’
(B. 16/3/’32) on cattle dipping is all right
except as to the use of caustic soda. I have
dipped thousands of cattle in Queensland
and have no time for caustic soda ; it often
scalds and burns the hair off thin-skinned
cattle. In freshly charging a dip, I recom-
mend 21b. of white arsenic and 41b. of soda
ash to every 100 gallons of water. When a
dip gets low, lessen the quantity of both,
and make up the volume by using lib. of
arsenic and 21b. of soda ash to every 100
gallons of water.
“Disc Harrow” : The remarks of “W.M.F.”
(B. 20/4/’32) on orange-trees spoiled by the
knife might be extended to apples and pears.
The average grower over-prunes. Odd trees
of out-of-date varieties, which receive no
attention and are kept only for house use,
often bear moi’e heavily and consistently
than the , rest of the carefully-tended com-
mercial orchard. The extra delicateness of
the modern varieties doesn’t seem a good
enough explanation. The biggest and best-
cropping trees I have ever seen were let
run practically wild for the first six years, in
conjunction with good feeding.
“L’Fou” : A Bright (Vic.) man has gath-
ered from his sweet chestnut-trees, 40 years
old, up to 11 bags of nuts per tree, and sold
them for £1 a bag. The trees, without any
cultivation or pruning, arc yearly appreciat-
ing in value. About as good returns have
been got from Bright walnuts. In locali-
ties having a rich soil and a cool, moist
climate, with preferably a sheltered aspect,
both these trees could often be grown on
what would otherwise be waste land, such as
broken gullies or steep hillsides, often of
little value even for grazing. And they con-
serve moisture and prevent soil erosion.
“Gardener”: “L’Fou” (B. 20/4/’32) cas-
tigates me for advocating the saving of seed
from crops not worth harvesting. I sug-
gested harvesting for seed the crops that will
not pay to send to market when demand is
poor. I’ve been too long at: the game to save
poor seed: but I have seen perfect beans
sent to market to bring 6d. a bushel, and
known growers to show ss. a bushel profit
by saving the seed.
‘ “Mulgo”: If you want to make a bead
on a board and have no beading plane, put
a screw in a piece of wood, about 3in. long
and fin. thick, leaving the head of the screw
standing out a quarter of an inch from the
wood, and use the head for cutter. Many
carpenters use this device for small beading,
particularly when working away from the
bench.
“Wescocky”: On a rainfall of 519 points
during the growing period Noongaar wheat,
sown on the Yilgarn (W.A.) State farm,
gave a return of nearly 16 bushels to the
acre. It was sown at the rate of 301 b. per
acre, with 1001 b. of super, on heavy land
and 1101 b. on lighter soils.
“W.D.McC.,” in conclusion: “F 34" (R
13/4/’32) misses the mark. I said that the
man fortunate enough to own a 3501 b. to
4001 b. herd (there is one in Vic. who this
year has 165 cows averaging over 3501 b.)
would be foolish to change over. But the
man who will persist in milking five-bob-a-
week cows in preference to producing baby
beef is beyond redemption. I know a little
about the business; over 30 years ago _ I
owned the largest dairy Shorthorn herd in
Vie. and when I dispersed them in 1902
they brought the highest prices for that class
of stock realised up to that time. At New-
market this week I sa.vf a vealer under six
months realise £6 10s. and a line of year-
lings £lO-odd. Nothing wrong with that,
and it. is easier than bailing up Strawberry.
“Nemo”: An old Westralian farmer, asked
how long the bad times would last, said : “Until
we pay as much for farm horses as we do
for racehorses.” At that time everyone used
to laugh at him, but not now. Average price
of yearlings this year was only £9O, whereas
farm-workers are bringing up to £7O, and
average about £5O.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All yon have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand. .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell" or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Youth (17), strong-, gardening and poultry-farming
exp., wants rural work in N.S.W. —9592.
Engineer, married, 40, Q’land, steam, internal
combustion and “A”-grade motor mechanic’s certifi-
cates, dredging exp., seeks employment.—96o7.
Young woman, Sydney, typist with dressmaking
exp., wants position.—96lB.
Young man wishes to hear from person requiring
horseman to look after remounts going to India.
—9609.
Mine manager, many years’ dredging exp., seeks
backing to extent £5OO, lease and test promising
areas in district hitherto unexploited by dredging.
Refs.—97o3.
Boy (16), Sydney, with bent for mechanics, wants
employment.—96B2.
Lady teacher, (Vic.), seeks position as governess
or lady-help, anywhere.—966s.
Station manager, single, 32, ex-Jmperial officer,
long exp. in N.S.W., wants employment anywhere.
—9655.
Typist, Sydney, own machine, newspaper exp.,
wants literary matter to type.—9649.
S’African veteran, ex-storekeeper, wishes home
with country storekeeper, Q’land or N.S.W. —9634.
Cook-houseman, Vic., all duties, wants employ-
ment. Refs. —9645.
Married man (28), Sydney, accountancy and
advertising exp., seeks position.—96so.
Will exchange “Instantaneous Personal Magnetism,’’
for “Sheepmates,” by Hatfield, and “Across Unknown
Australia,” by Michael Terry, or 12 months’ issue of
“Geographical Magazine.”-—9633.
To buy “The Floral Almanac” and “The Bouquet,”
by A, E. C01e—9626.
To buy “Three Men in a Boat,” by J. K. Jerome.
—8623.
To buy “Ore Crushing,” by R. H. Richards. —9671.
To buy Vol. 2 “Australian Encyclopaedia.”—96Bs.
To buy “Matsu,” by John Paris. —9610.
To buy books on physical culture and jiu-jitsu,
—9580.
To hear from agent for Stanley steam cars. —9599.
To buy recent edition of Gibbons’s Catalogue of
the World’s Stamps.—9s96.
To buy print of “The Rearguard.”—96ol.
Information Sought.
Particulars of one-act play competition
being conducted by the Brisbane W. E. A.
Dramatic Society?— 9sB6.
A prize of £lO 10s. is offered for the best
play submitted, and the Brisbane “Tele-
graph” will publish the winning play and
the three plays next in order of merit.
Entries are free. Authors must be bona-fide
residents of Queensland of six months’ stand-
ing. Plays should be one-aeters and con-
tain at least three characters and play from
15 to 40 minutes. Each entry must be
typewritten and submitted under w nom de
plume and accompanied by a sealed envelope
containing the name and address of the
author. No play that has been publicly per-
formed is eligible. Entries close on June
30, 1932, and should be addressed “One-Act
Play Competition,” c/o W.E.A., Edward-
street, Brisbane. Further particulars from
Miss Gwen Harrison, hon. sec., Rialto-street,
Coorparoo, Brisbane.
Recently it teas reported that a man at
Sandringham ( N.S.W .) teas seised by an
octopus measuring when killed Aft. across.
The man teas unconscious when rescued.
Will you give me some description of the
octopus species ? —9588.
It has a baglike body; on the neck are
two eyes and a slit and funnel for respira-
tion. The mouth, beak-shaped, is surrounded
by eight (sometimes ten) tentacles. These
have rows of sucker-discs, filled with a soft
protuberance which, withdrawn when prey
is seized, form a partial vacuum within each.
The octopus tenaciously clutches or releases
with equal celerity; is fast at swimming,
crawling and darting. It changes color to
suit rock, sand or seaweed, and defensively
squirts sepia-ink to screen its escape from
an enemy.
What was the reason for the dissolution
in 1914 of both the Senate and the House
of Reps.? —9s67.
Under Section 57 of the Constitution, it
is provided that, should the Senate fail
to pass, or should it amend any pro-
posed law previously passed by the House
of Reps., and should the latter House, after
an interval of three months, again pass 'the
proposed law, with or without the amend-
ments made by the Senate, and the Senate
for a second time reject it or pass it with
amendments to which the lower House will
not agree, then the Gov.-General may dis-
solve the two Houses simultaneously. This
situation arose, the Cook Government, hope-
lessly outvoted in the Senate, being desir-
ous, of getting a majority in that Chamber.
It was defeated in the elections for both
Houses.
Hoio is the peculiar effect of the last note
of “Madame Butterfly” brought about? —
9587.
The final chord is an inversion of the sub-
dominant. The prevailing key of the con-
cluding passage is B minor. The ear is led
to expect the triad B, D, F sharp, whereas
the opera ends on B, D, G.
(1) Price of ambergris? (2) Names of
Sydney buyers? (3 ) Up to what weight
has ambergris been found in any single lot?
—9463.
(1) 2s. to £6 per ounce. (2) No Sydney
firm will undertake the purchase of amber-
gris. (3 ) 3001 b.
What quantity of galvanised-iron sheet
would make a canoe to hold an 11 -stone man
safely in calm water?— 94ss,.
Two sheets 22-gauge iron, 10ft. by 30in.
Have experiments been carried out icitli
railway trams fitted with pneumatic rubber
tyres, and, if so, where and when, and what
were the results? —9636.
Yes, a railway motor-driven coach fitted
with pneumatic tyres was tried last year on
the Palaiseau-Chartres (France) branch
line. The coach reached a speed of oO m.p.h.
in 650 yards, and was brought to a standstill
Within 100 yards, while the demonstrators
claim that, by use of the new type, it will
be possible to dispense with signalmen, levei-
cross keepers and guards. Each coach is
manned with a driver only, and it is asserted
such coaches can be dispatched at 100-yard
intervals without danger of collision.
(1) Are the postage stamps of Great
Britain, issued between 1840 and, 1880
of value? (2) Which issues are worth
most? (3) Value of 1855-57 sixpenny? (4)
Value of early Australian States, Van Die-
men'’s Land and Orange River Colony? (5)
Effect of Great War on the value of early
Europeans? (6) Which countries are worth
most? (7) Where is there a market for
valuable stamps? —97sl.
(1) Certain individual stamps are, especi-
ally some of the varieties. (2) and (6) Con-
sult Stanley Gibbons’s Priced Stamp Cata-
logue. (3) Is. 6d. to 3s. On azure paper
555.. on thick paper 20s. (4) Nearly all
early British Colonials have some commer-
cial value, the first issues of Australian
States being popular in Australia. (5)
Pre-war Europeans were issued in large
quantities and the lower denominational pre-
war Europeans are, generally speaking, of
no great value. (7) Communicate with C. F.
Laseron. 19 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
What are the characteristics of the box-
fish? —9631 . , . , .
The head and body of this fish, which is
plentiful in Australian waters, are encased
in a hard bony covering, leaving only the fins
free. Most of the species are highly ornate,
with amazingly brilliant colors and patterns.
They are also known as coffin or trunk-
fishes. A common tropical representative is
called cowfish, on account of two long spines
that project forwards from the forehead like
a pair of horns.
How long docs the copyright of a novel
exist in the case of a living author? How long
docs it last when there are two authors, and
'how long in the case of a posthumous work?
—9637.' , , ,
A copyright under the Commonwealth Act
subsists for 50 years after the death of a
sole author. In. the case of a work of joint
authorship, copyright subsists during the life
of the author wdio dies first and for a term
of 50 years after liis death, or during the
life of the author who dies last, whichever
period is the longer. In the ease of posthu-
mous works, copyright subsists till 50 years
after publication.
(1) What qualifications must a man, de-
sirous of entering the R.A.N. as a ship-
wright. possess? (2) lam nearing 30 and
was never apprenticed to the shipwright
trade, though I am considered an excellent
ivorkman. How would I get on? (3) Nature
of educational exam, to be passed? —963B.
(I) Recruiting is temporarily suspended,
but in normal times candidates must be 21
to 28 years old, of good health and character,
and must produce indentures showing an
apprenticeship of at least five years or
written evidence of practical experience as a
shipwright covering a similar period. (2)
There is provision whereby exceptional cases
may be considered on their merits. (3)
Vulgar and decimal fractions, weights and
measures, dictation, reading.
What English troops arc known as “Beef-
eatersand how did the term originate? —
9669.
A conventional name for Yeomen of the
Guard and Wardens of the Tower. a part
of the bodyguard of the Sovereign. The term
is supposed to be either a corruption of the
French “buffetier” (a buffet-keeper) or a
jocular reference to their portly appearance.
(1) What teas the early history of E •/.
Ban field, the naturalist, who wrote about
Dunk Island, and what induced him to take
up residence there? (2) How long urns hr
there? (3) What are the titles of his books?
—9652.
(1) Born at Liverpool (England) on
September 4, 1852: brought while a boy to
Vic. by his father and settled in Ararat. As
a journalist he worked on many newspapers
in the Eastern States, during the ’nineties.
Being threatened with death from phthisis
he abandoned journalism and took a lease of
Dunk Island. (2f 1897 to 1923 (3) “Con-
fessions of a Beachcomber” (1908), “My
Tropic Isle” (1911), “Tropic Days” (1918),
“Last Leaves from Diink Island” (pos-
thumously published 1925).
(1) How many natives are there in
Papua? (2) Arc they increasing or decreas-
ing in numbers? (3) How many are serv-
ing as contract laborers, and what wages do
they get? (4) Do the natives pay taxes?
—9667.
(1) The official estimate is 275,000, (2)
Recent censuses point to a slight increase.
(3) Average number under contract in 1930
was 7274; £57,262 was paid in wages. (4)
Yes. A tax not exceeding £1 per head may
be imposed on natives, except constables,
mission teachers, persons unfit for work, and
those who have not less than four living
children.
How is cloisonne enamelware made®—
9648.
Generally on a base of copper which is
hammered into shape of plate, bowl or jar.
A design is traced on the copper in Indian
ink. Thin wires or ribbons of copper, silver
or gold are placsd edgeways on the lines of
the dra-wing. In the best pieces the lines of
metal ribbon are beaten with a hammer to
obtain varying thicknesses of line, and the
ends of the wires tiled so that they will meet
perfectly. The ribbon is adhered to the base
with a vegetable glue, and then powdered
enamel is sifted over the work and gently
heated to secure the cloisons firmly. Enamel
pastes are forced with a bamboo pen into
the cloisons in the colors necessary to carry
out the design. Various firings are neces-
sary, as some enamels fuse at, a different tem-
perature from others. Finally, the surface
is polished with stones of varying coarseness,
then with powdered charcoal, and at last
with hartshorn and rape-seed oil.
(1) Value of a Rhodes scholarship? (2)
Duration? (3) At what English university
is it tenable? (4) How many _ Rhodes
scholarships are awarded in Australia annu-
ally? (5) Qualifications of Australian can-
didates? (6) In making appointments, what
are the qualities in applicants to which most
regard is paid?-— 9651.
(4) £4OO p.a. (2) Three years. (3)
Oxford. (4) One scholarship a year is
assigned to each State in the Commonwealth.
(5) They must be British subjects, 19 to
25, with at least five years’ domicile in Aus-
tralia and two years at a uni., and must be
unmarried. (6) Ability and scholastic
attainments, force of character and capacity
for leadership, and success in outdoor sports.
Why does the new moon at times lie on an
even keel and at others tilt at different
angles? Does the fact of the moon coming
in with a tilt indicate that there will he a
likelihood of ram during that month, as
many pconic aver is the case? —9480.
The apparent angle is entirely due to the
relative positions of sun, moon and earth,
and varies regularly throughout the year. It
has nothing to do with the weather.
(1) What advantages do exhibition and
bursary scholarships to Sydney Uni. confer?
(21 Arc there any other scholarships for
which I could compete? I am doing my fifth
year at a public high school. (3) Alust a
physical examination be passed before gain-
ing any of these scholarships?.- —9584.
'(1) ' An exhibition scholarship exempts
the holder from payment of matriculation,
tuition and degree fees in any faculty. He
is required, however, to pay all other inci-
dental expenses and fees, including the
expenses of laboratory material, microscope
fees, and the fee for the University Union. A
bursary is a monetary allowance given to
20 exhibitioners whose general proficiency
places them at the head of the list and
whose financial circumstances are such as
to warrant the award. (2) Matriculation
scholarships are awarded by the Uni. on the
order of merit of the leaving certificate
examination. These arc awarded for general
proficiency, French and German, mathe-
matics and chemistry. (3) No.
When was the last census of aboriginals
in Australia held and how many aboriginals
were counted? In what States are they
most n a rnero ns ? —9675.
June 30, 1930, when 61,734 full-bloods
and 17,797 half-castes were enumerated.
The aboriginals are scattered over the whole
of the mainland, but the majority are con-
centrated chiefly in W.A.. Q’land and N.A.
In a story in an American magazine the
author describes the hero (an Italian) as
having fought on the Italian front in the
Great War in a tanks corps. Did the Italian
army rise tanks? —-9687.
No. The question of the organisation of
a tank arm was not taken up by Italy until
1918. Manufacture of tanks was then
started, and by the time the war came to
an mid a few Fiat machines were ready to
take the field, but none were actually used.
(1) What co. worked the phosphate de-
posits on Nauru Island before the British
Phosphate Commission took over? (2)
When did the B.P.C. take over, what was
the price paid, and has the Australian Gov-
ernment any interest in the commission ? (3)
Exports of phosphate from Nauru before the
tear? (4) Amount of recent annual ex-
ports?—9676.
(1) Pacific Phosphate Co. (2) The in-
terests of the co. in Nauru and Ocean islands
were bought by the British, Commonwealth
and Maoriland Governments in 1919 for
£3,500,000, the purchase money being contri-
buted in the proportions of 42, 42 and 16 p.c.
respectively. Output is allotted to the three
countries in the same ratio. (3 ) 350,000
tons. (4) In 1929-30 it was 499,456 tons.
(1) Flow to become efficient in collecting
butterflies, bugs, beetles and other insects in
the tropics? (2) Is there any money in dis-
posing of same? (3) How to kill and pre-
serve them? (4) llow to get addresses of
collectors ? —9478.
(1) and (2) Get in touch with F. P.
Dodd, of Kuranda (Q.), who can advise you.
(2) Very little profit. (4) Most collectors
collect and prepare their own specimens
Museums are buyers in certain very rare
cases.
I have seen it stated that rain promotes
better and quicker •growth than ordinary
watering in a garden. Can any chemical
be added to water to get the same results
as rain ? —9273.
The statement that rain always promotes
better and quicker growth than ordinary
watering is not strictly correct. Small
amounts of available nitrogen may occur in
rain water and have a beneficial effect gener-
ally on plant growth. The addition of a
few grains of sulphate of ammonia to ordi-
nary tap water would have a similar effect.
When was the baby bonus first introduced
in Australia? llow much was originally
paid to those eligible? How much is paid note
and to persons below what salary? When
ivas the change made? Is payment made in
the case of still-births, and what payment is
made in the case of twins?- —9674.
The Commonwealth Maternity Allowances
Act came into operation on October 10, 1912,
and provided for the payment to mothers of
£5 in respect of each birth. The Financial
Emergency Act 1931 reduced the bonus to
£4 and restricted it to cases where the in-
come of the claimant and her husband does
not exceed £260 p.a. Payments are made
in respect of still-born children if viable,
but one allowance only is payable in the case
of plural births.
Does Anybody Know?
H'ow the “floating lady’’ trick is done? —
9673.
Brief Answers.
C.T.: The specimen submitted shows no
sign of disease or pest. The trouble is physiologi-
cal, perhaps caused through want of food, faulty
watering or draughty position. .. . G.M.: Write A. G.
Pritchard, 114 Wakefield-street, Adelaide. .. . J.P.:
Originally attached to the most sacred room in a
palace. Now used as a honorific. Does not mean
“ship”. .. .H.D.8.: Efftee Films prefer a brief
synopsis of proposed story. If approved, writer is
requested to submit a full scenario. In this case,
it might be advisable to indicate source of story.
... . J.N.M.J.: Second-hand packs are practically of
no commercial value. A small proportion are
rewoven into rugs, etc. Others are reconditioned
and used again, their value then being about 25.,
but firms make no allowance for this. The cost to
owners of recovering them would be mote than their
value... . A.E.8.: See “The Divining Rod,” by
Barrett and Besterman (Methuen; 18s.); also
article in Q’land “Agricultural Journal,” September,
1914. .. . A.B. : Have tattooed into the design a
solution of 50 per cent, tannic acid. After
sloughing rub silver nitrate into the treated area.
This forms a heavy black deposit of tannate in
the skin, and with this the tattooing material can
be removed. The tattooed area gradually hardens
and dries, eventually lifting off. The operation takes
some weeks and it is impossible to prevent scarring.
. ...M.L.: The father of Gordon Craig was Charles
Kelly (Wardell), the second husband of Ellen
Terry, father also of Edith Gordon Craig. Ellen
Terry’s first husband was George Frederick Watts,
R.A.,.. .F.C.A.: (1) Real jazz commenced in Sydney
in 1918. Before that “ragtime” was in vogue.
(2) Hundreds of jazz tunes were issued as soon as
this class of music became popular, written as
waltzes, fox-trots and one-steps. (3) They were
received with enthusiasm from the first. .. .D. 8.:
(1) Approximate charge of patent attorney would be
£5 ss. for a provisional protection lasting nine
months, or for a 16-year patent about £25 inclusive
of all costs. (2) 16 years; no necessity to work
invention for four years from date of patent. (3)
One patent for whole Commonwealth. (4) Most
attorneys will supply information without charge
to a prospective patentee. (5) Royalty is a matter of
arrangement between the parties.... S.Ti.K.: Get
in touch with Griffith, Hassel and Griffith,
Asbestos House, York and Barrack streets, Sydney.
. ...V.G.R.: (1) “Friend o’ Mine,” words by Fred
E. Weatherly, music by Wilfred Sanderson, was
published in 1913 by Boosey, London. (2) Bruno
Huhn’s setting of Henley’s “Invictus” was published
in 1910 by Augener, London... .A.E.T.: (1)
Thomas Edison, Ltd., 364 Kent-street, Sydney. (2)
From £lO to £l3O complete... .L.R.: Write
Under-Secretary, Dept, of Defence, Melbourne....
F. : Wind-sucking in horses is usually considered
incurable. Possibly the best method of preventing
the animal from indulging in this habit is to use
a muzzle.... H.C.S.: In the January, 1927, issue of
the “Australian Forestry Journal” there is an
article, “Giants of the Forest,” which should be
helpful. .. .C.F.: Submit a claim to the Department
of Family Endowment, Macquarie-street, Sydney,
which will supply form. .. . M.F.: The amount to be
deducted is 12s D. J.W.: Gunpowder manufacture
can’t be undertaken by amateurs. Reloading outfits
with full instructions are readily obtainable....
0.C.: The formula is a trade secret; anyway, it is
quite impossible to make it at home. Aircraft
fabric paint, procurable from Berger and Sons, 11c
Cathcart House, Castlereagh-street, Sydney, should
suit your purposes. It is difficult to apply, and
Australian National Airways, Ltd., Mascot, Sydney,
have offered to explain its application if you write
16 them direct. .. .C.H.F.: The Chao Chow Co., 3S
Carrington-street, and Tallerman and Co., 17 York
street —both Sydney. .. .C.W.L.: Quite easy, but re-
quires a little preliminary study and good strong
work. Well described in “Woman’s Mirror’’
12/11/’29, 4d. posted. Weldon’s pamphlet No.
221, “Loose Covers, etc.,” 9d., and “Country
Life Booklet,” “Covering Everything,” Is., are
procurable from most booksellers. .. .W.D.F.
Artist’s medium is whatever is mixed with
the pigment to attach it to the surface to be
decorated. It should also protect the pigment-
from chemical or other injury. Most usual mediums
are glue or gum in water* (water-colors) ; eggs
(tcmpora) ; linseed-oil and turpentine (oil painting) ;
and occasionally beeswax and resin.... A.W.A.:
The Titanic crashed into an iceberg in the North
Atlantic (lat. 41° 46' N., long. 50° 14' W.), on
April 15, 1912, 1513 lives being lost and 711
saved. .. .W.T.: By arrangement with the Federal
Government, 15 State schools are conducted in the
Fedcal Capital Territory by the N.S.W. Education
Dept., the department being recouped for expenditure.
... .T.J.G.: Rub well with raw linseed oil, applied
with a piece of coarse flannel. This should bring
a light polish. dean off the oil, then take a
fresh piece of flannel, dip in the oil again and
then into ordinary knife polish. Rub with this
until the horns feel hot and shiny. Wipe off and
polish finally with a clean dry silk duster. . . .C.J.C.:
Write Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Asbestos House,
York and Barrack streets, Sydney. .. .E.M. : Artistic-
ally, probably no. It might still fetch a price, but
nothing like what the painter got in his lifetime.
. ...E.C.: Send numbered samples of the leaves,
with flowers or fruits if possible, and a small
specimen of the heartwood, with particulars of
size of tree and quantities available in each case,
to the Q’land Forestry Board, which will advise
you. . . .C.R.F.: If there are 12 players the
condition that each must play against every other
once only, at bridge, would impose a limit of three
games on the tournament... .E.F.: (1) No evi-
dence that it is harmful. (2) We know of no
certain remedy. (3) N 0... .S.S.A.: We cannot
advise any particular doctor. Any medical speci-
alist should be familiar with the treatment....
C.E.A.: What ship do you refer to? Dozens of
vessels have been wrecked in IVreck 8ay....R.5.
Plough the land this month and plant in June or
July. .. .F.W.: The ticket did not win a prize....
C.A.: (1) Fairly good. (2) Write Mr. Tonikin,
Markets Dept., 419 Collins-street, Melbourne. .. .
J.R.F.: It is estimated that there have been 3692
lynchings in America since 1889. .. .W.D.E.: Yarra-
mundi means deep water; Thirroul, a valley or
hollow; Kalang, beautiful; and Gooriwa, big rocks.
. ...K.0.: J. H. Smyth, 121 a Castlereagh-street,
Sydney... .5.J.8.: The Lecturer-in-Charge, Tanning
School, Bourke-street, Sydney, will send you a type-
written memorandum on the subject upon request.
. ...A.T.: He is an Englishman, and as far as we
can ascertain has never visited Australia... .S.K.:
The “Book of Hours” was one produced in Paris
during the end of the fifteenth and the beginning of
the sixteenth centuries. Printed on vellum, beauti-
fully decorated with woodcut borders and illuminated
by paintings in gold and opaque colors over the
engravings M.M.L.: You might lay a charge of
using abusive language, but it is improbable you
would receive much redress J.G.M.: The illegiti-
mate children are not entitled to any share in'what
would have been their mother’s portion in the
estate had she survived W.G.8.: Write Director,
Civil Aviation, Defence Dept., Melbourne. .. .W.H.:
“How to Train a Racehorse,” by Muggridge (255.),
“Horse Training,” by Bendant (17s. 6d.), and
“Horse Breeding Yesterday and To-day,” by Camp-
bell (17s. 6d.) (Many others mailed.)


DOPE
BY
GRANTLEY LORRENS.
BOOK I—THE SURF QUEEN.
Chapter I.
Ernest william johns, m.a.
Oxon., listened vaguely, with an odd
sense of detachment, to the noise of
the restaurant, a continuous medley of
sound punctuated by the pop of cheap
champagne being uncorked. He had the
peculiar sensation of being on the earth,
but not of it. His disembodied spirit heard
sounds which no longer had power to fully
register on his consciousness. Fourth
dimensional stuff! He laughed sharply at
the thought. The sudden movement of his
lungs brought on a fit of coughing that left
him weak and dizzy. The sounds of the
restaurant receded still further away.
With an effort he lifted his tumbler to
his lips. Although most of the contents
spilled over his chin, the few drops that
he managed to swallow steadied his senses
for the minute.
“Better get out of this!” he told him-
self, and he eyed, with uneasy apprehen-
sion, the approaching figure of Signor
Gabriel, sole owner of the waterfront
restaurant known to its patrons—and the
police—as Gabriel’s Heaven.
The relationship between Gabriel and his
celestial namesake was, perhaps, too erudite
for most of the patrons, but the name stuck
and Gabriel’s Heaven was famous—or in-
famous—from Sydney to ’Frisco, and
further still. One had only to mention
Circular Quay to any sort of seaman and
the chances were ten to one—whether one
might be in Southampton or Singapore—
that eyes would brighten and the words
would come involuntarily; “Circular Quay?
Sydney?.... You know Gabriel’s
Heaven?”—and a fund of anecdote would
spring to being.
Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon, knew
something of the fame the place enjoyed,
and it was for that reason that he had
dragged his weary feet to a table there
that evening. In the days when the letters
after his name had meant something more
than a constant reminder that he had
“seen better days,” he had been gifted with
words to a certain extent; he had phi-
landered with journalism.
But that was long ago. Three years in
point of time, but an amn of God-forsaken
days; and now he was here to try to get
some “copy” which, in due course, might
mean a few shillings in hard cash. He had
to get money somehow. And this idea of
Gabriel’s Heaven as possible “copy” had
come to him the day before, when the
exhilaration of his last sniff of “snow” had
made him, for the time being, a superman.
He would write! He would write, he told
himself! By God, he would! Stuff that
would put the regulars to shame!
“II Signor is ill?”
Johns stared dully into the face that was
looking down at him. He nodded slowly,
but a frown puckered his forehead, as
though he were striving to correlate with
the strange compassion that was in the
eyes of Gabriel the tales that he had heard
of him. That it was indeed the face of
Gabriel, he knew. But the eyes, or, rather,
the expression that they held, so sympathetic,
was not what one would have expected,
judging by repute, of the proprietor of this
“Heaven.” Their magnetism fascinated
him, and his numbed brain went off at a
tangent. Ridiculous, he told himself, that
he should be lost in a maze of metaphysical
hypotheses when his next seat would prob-
ably be the gutter! But life was like that
it had been, ever since he had taken his
first sniff of snow. A strange medley of
brilliance and stupidity. But why should
a man like Gabriel have eyes like those?
He realised now how it was that Gabriel,
undersized as he was, could keep order—or
restore it when the hired chuckers-out failed
It was those eyes! Hypnotic to a degree
....when was it that Jenner was born?
1733.... No, not Jenner Jenner and
vaccination... .hypnotism and... .Mesmer.
Mesmer! That was the man! Mesmer.
the father of hypnotism.... But what the
devil would that knowledge help him now?
Would it save him from the gutter?
He laughed again, bitterly, and more to
himself that aloud. Again the cough tor-
tured him until his eyes ran.
Gabriel waited, a compassionate expres-
sion in his eyes, until the paroxysm had
stopped. Then he laid his hand gently on
the other’s shoulder.
“What is it?” he asked. “Perhaps Gabriel
can find some.”
He broke off with a suggestion in his
voice, and Ernest William Johns, M.A.
Oxon, felt the hot tears in his eyes. He
was snivelling like a puling infant
Shakspeare.... God! Couldn’t he forget
his damned past?
“Snow,” he said piteously. “Snow—but
I haven’t the dough!” He laughed inanely
at that. “Snow.... dough poetry, eh?”
But his laugh choked, and his head fell
forward onto his arms, and he was sobbing.
Why shouldn’t he sob? Wasn’t he sorry
for himself? Natural reflex.... that paper
of his had been about that inhibitions
but it had never been finished His
thoughts trailed off into the murk of semi-
consciousness.
He came back to the world of reality to
find the magnetic eyes of Gabriel once
more fixed on him. And he heard a voice
telling him: “Take this, quick! Before any-
one sees!”
Something was being pressed into his
hand. It was a folded slip of paper. His
mind cleared, and with trembling, eager
hands he undid the folds and sniffed.
The change that came over him almost
immediately would have dumbfounded the
ordinary onlooker; but not so Gabriel, to
whom the phenomena of the cocaine addict
were not new. Almost as the delicate
specks of the fine dust-like powder came
into contact with the sensitive mucous
membrane of the inner nostril, Johns
squared his shoulders, and the hunted ex-
pression left his eyes. Gabriel nodded en-
couragingly.
“That is better?” he murmured sym-
pathetically. “II Signor, his eyes brighten!”
Johns shrugged apologetically.
“I am afraid I can’t pay you for this,”
he began hesitatingly; but Gabriel was
quick to sense the other’s embarrassed
gratitude.
“Prego!” he deprecated. “I do not seek
for payment, Signor. It is a pleasure, un
gran’ piacere, to assist un gentiluomo.”
“I am no gentleman!” Johns exclaimed
bitterly. “I was once, perhaps; but now!”
“Once a gentleman, always a gentleman,”
Gabriel replied, laying a hand on the
other’s arm, and Johns noted subconsciously
that the English his benefactor spoke was
as pure as had been his Italian. “I, too,
Signor, was once a gentleman. How else
should I have recognised you for one as
you sat there, apparently just one of my
ordinary customers? You see, no matter
how low we sink—you in the pursuit of your
“snow”; I in pursuit of my “dough”—the
old spark still remains, and every so-often
it must spring to being for a passing
moment, so that it is discernible, for that
moment, to those who care to see it, and
who can recognise it.” He shook his head
a little sadly. “But there are other things
that rule us more persistently, alas! To-
morrow I shall once more be thinking of
nothing but my precious money, and
you”
“I shall be writing!” cried Johns, the
light of ambition and of the self-knowledge
of mental superiority in his eyes. “I shall
be writing—and in time grow famous!”
Gabriel shrugged expressively.
“Who knows?” he agreed. “But person-
ally, Signor, I doubt it. You will forgive
my—how you say?—presumption, but I
think to-morrow, Signor, if you are wise,
you will be seeking out that low-down
blackguard Gabriel (and any policeman can
tell you how to find Gabriel’s Heaven!)
and hoping that he will not have forgotten
the promise that he is now making to you
—the promise that he will help you, per-
haps even give you 'tick’ for more ‘snow.’
The promise that he has made to no man
before—that he will set you on your feet
once more.”
Johns did not answer him immediately.
For he was no longer the weak-kneed,
grovelling wretch whose evei-y fibre
screamed for the comfort of the “snow.”
His nerves, for the time being, were peace-
ful, and his intellect was free to play as it
willed in the realms of psychology. Dis-
gust for his presence in this hell hole of sin
—the phrase was his own—warred with the
student’s eagerness to solve the problem of
this sudden attachment that the other had
conceived for him. The mesmeric eyes of
the little Italian no longer held sway over
him. His intellectual superiority was assert-
ing itself, and the Italian was content to
bow, for the time, to its dominance. To-
morrow the positions would doubtless be
reversed again, Johns reflected cynically,
but for the moment it was he, penniless and
destitute though he was, who was the
superior.
“II Signor will honor me by accepting
the hospitality of the house?” •
The question cut in on John’s mental
egoisms.
“Why, thank you, I will,” he answered,
somewhat magniloquently. “I will, of
course, see to it that your generosity gets
its proper meed of gratitude, my dear fel-
low,” he added, and he patted Gabriel
patronisingly on the
shoulder. After all,
it was Gabriel who
was to make possible
—who had already
made possible—the
sudden rise to fame
and fortune of one
who would surely, in
the years to come,
gain the very pin-
nacle of success. And
he would see to it
that Gabriel should
not suffer by his
generosity. The truly
great could choose
their friends where inclination and not
policy—dictated, and Gabriel might even
achieve the honor of being mentioned....
perhaps even a dedication. \ es. Iha
would be the idea—a neat line on the
reverse title-page: “To the Archangel
Gabriel.” The very thing! And how in-
triguing to the multitude! They would
puzzle their puny brains over those words,
the thousands, the tens of thousands who
would read the. book. The Archangel.
What did it mean? He could see them shak-
ing their heads in the seclusion of their
studies, their libraries, and their boudoir?.
The arrival of the waiter with a bottle
reverently clothed in a snowy white napkin,
in which crushed ice was buried, put an end
to his reverie. It was of the best, his host
was explaining. Not the brand that was
served to the ordinary customers. Ernest
William Johns nodded comprehendinglv.
“Quite,” he agreed. It would, of course,
have been ridiculous to have offered him
anything but the very best.
He thawed a little under the influence of
the second glass. By some trick of meta-
bolism, the champagne, usually in itself a
stimulant, had taken the sharp edge of
exhilaration off the stimulus of the cocaine,
and, as he listened to his host’s intermin-
able chatter, he was conscious only of a
glow of bonhomie. A feeling of being at
peace with all the world stole over him;
and for the time being his literary pros-
pects were forgotten save that, once or
twice, he reminded-himself that this chatter
of the genial Gabriel could not but supply
him with delectable copy.
It was half an hour later that Gabriel
suddenly checked his rapid flow of remini-
scences. The cause thereof was the hearty
bellow of laughter that reached them from
the street doorway, and which checked also
the hitherto incessant clamor of conversa-
tion from the other occupants of the
restaurant.
To the mind of Ernest William Johns, by
now a little sluggish under the combined
influence of his host’s stories and the
gradually dying stimuli of champagne and
cocaine, the voice seemed to him to bring
to the room, filled as it was with seamen
of all nationalities, a breath of actuality,
of the sea in reality. It was as though a
giant tidal wave had suddenly burst out
there on the pavement, and as suddenly
had disappeared, leaving behind the tang
of the sea, unmistakable, factual. He
could almost persuade himself that the
striking figure entering the room was none
other than Father Neptune incarnate.
His inquiry of Gabriel was checked be-
fore it was uttered, for the little Italian
was already making his way towards the
newcomers, and at the same time issuing
rapid orders that the best table was to be
cleared of its present occupants and made
ready for the latest arrivals. Johns was
more than a little surprised to see that the
group of men who were thus disturbed
made no protest. On the contrary, they
got up somewhat hastily, and moved with
polite smiles to another table in the direc-
tion of their disturbers.
There were four in the party, but of
these three were dwarfed into insignificance
by the fourth, the one from whom the
stentorian bellow of laughter had come.
Six feet two if he was an inch, he was
broad in proportion, and as he stood now
before the table, his hat suddenly offswept
and flung to an obsequious waiter, his
broad expanse of forehead and the shining
baldness of his dome-like head seemed to
set off to perfection the flowing golden
beard and moustache that concealed his
lips and chin.
Gabriel must have made some remark
that tickled the giant’s risibility, for sud-
denly the great head was flung back, an-
other gust of laughter swept through the
room, and Johns had a fleeting vision of
two red lips, full and healthy in color, and
for a moment two rows of almost dazzlingly
white teeth flashed into view.
The table at which they were seating
themselves was only a few paces from that
on which still stood the nearly-empty and
by now quite flat bottle of Gabriel’s
“choicest,” and Johns was able to hear
plainly the conversation that intermittent!;.-
sprang up between the courses. Although it
was well on towards midnight, the four
were calmly eating their way through a
seven-course meal, and with no mean appe-
tites. And, from the odd scraps of conver-
sation, the listener was able to piece
together the information that the giant,
whose name, tritely enough, was Captain
Smith, had just succeeded in buying a valu-
able concession—presumably to pearl—
somewhere in the vicinity of the Solomon
Group.
Then, as their conversation turned to per-
sonal reminiscences, Johns lost interest in
it—partly for that reason, but more particu-
larly because the old, accustomed “jumpi-
ness” was creeping over him again.
The “snow''’ was wearing off—another hour
or so, and he would be much as he had
been before Gabriel had come to his rescue
—a quivering bundle of nerves with no
thought in his mind save that of begging,
borrowing or, in all probability, stealing
some more of the indispensable from some-
where or someone.
An odd twinge or two in his forehead—
the supra-orbital nerve, he told himself—.
had already begun to make itself felt. It
was always the first sign with him. The
signal that Hell was soon again to begin,
and Old Nick himself to take possession
of his body so that he might torture it
with a thousand aches and longings. His
nostrils twitched sensitively—the mucous
membrane was calling for its food. Call-
ing, so far, only faintly, diffidently almost,
as though ashamed at this early return of
appetite. But soon now it would be making
its demands known in no uncertain fashion.
It would throb—and with every throb a
shiver of misery would start in his brain
and run through every nerve in his body.
Throb and throb again until the tortured
nerves would goad him on to find relief by
any means, at any cost. He would forget
that he was a gentleman, or had once been
such; he would forget the transient ambi-
tions of the exhilarated hour, he would for-
get everything save that somewhere, some-
how, he must get more of the precious
“snow.”
So far he had managed to steer clear of
actual crime in the mad pursuit. A petty
larceny every now and then, when charity
or loans had been withheld—that much
only had he so far ventured. But he kn w
that the last shreds of self-respect were
going. And he was penniless. To-morrow
he might manage to wring from his pro-
testing brain a few lines of “copy” that
would bring him in enough to live on for a
week or so. Sixpence a day he had found
to be the minimum on which a modicum of
comfort could be achieved, provided, of
course, that there were other funds to buy
the indispensable. But suppose the “copy”
would not come? Suppose his brain refused
its duty? What then? The compassion of
the editor who took his stuff would not be
great enough to buy “futures” in copy.
And even supposing that he would—what
of to-night? He had nowhere to stay—no
money.
He rested his head on his arms, and tried
to find relief in sleep. Gabriel would at
least let him stay there until closing hour.
He might even let him stay the rest of the
night.
And then, for a while, despite the ever-
lasting' noise around him, he dozed fitfully.
Exhausted nature was, for the time being,
more insistent even than the clamorings of
outraged nerves.
Chapter 11.
It was the sudden cessation of the noise
of the restaurant that recalled Johns , to
consciousness. Blinking irritably, he looked
up, and then his eyes turned towards the
door, at which the whole company was
staring. He caught his breath in astonish-
ment.
A girl was standing just within the thres-
hold, and her eyes roamed amusedly over
the faces of the men who peered at her as
if she were some modern Venus risen from
the waves. The simile was Johns’s, and
seemed to fit in harmoniously with his
previous imagery of the tidal wave that
had borne Captain Smith on its crest.
And well the men might stare, he told
himself. What a girl! She was the embodi-
ment of graceful strength as she stood there,
enjoying to the full the sensation that her
coming had created. There was a little
twirk of humor that twitched at the corners
of her full red lips, and her eyes sparkled
behind the long curving lashes.
“Junoesque,” Johns murmured to himself
as his eye took in the lines of her figure.
And he noted with approval that her fingers
as they lay akimbo on her hips, were long
and tapering. Not that he would have
expected anything else, having noted
already the fine line of the nostrils, and the
generous sweep of forehead. Breeding was
her outstanding characteristic; and perhaps
that was the reason for the astonishment
in the faces of the patrons of Gabriel’s
Heaven. The advent of women at the
door was no unusual phenomenon, but none
of 'them had ever looked as this one did.
The girl must have sensed something of
this, for suddenly she threw back her head
and laughed. And in that gesture Ernest
William Johns, M.A. Oxon., discovered the
reason for her presence there. . She had
come to seek her father. That laugh, that
gesture—both were hereditary. Mendel’s
law—and there was only one man in that
room w 7 ho could have claimed her parentcy.
Her own words confirmed this hypothesis,
for, her laugh—a deep soprano trill—over,
she nodded at the room in general.
“Evening, gents!” she cried; and Ernest
William Johns shuddered. “Evening, gents!”
Then, with another nod, this time at the
beaming Captain Smith, she added, “Bed-
time, Pops. You gotta be ready for the
tide.”
And Johns shuddered again. Such an
accent, coming from such perfect lips,
racked his aesthetic soul, not yet entirely
sublimated by waking nerves, to its depths.
It was a sublime joke on Nature’s part, he
told himself. The beautiful rose, growing
on the dung heap, exhaled the perfume of
—the dung heap! He leaned back in his


After all—
THE EMPIRE
LOOKS TO THE
PRUDENTIAL
Because of its immensity—because of its
imperial outlook—because the trust of
thrifty, security-loving citizens is expressed
in twenty-eight million life policies—
The
Prudential Assurance
Company is an
Empire Institution
Extract from "The Policy" (March 12, 1932):
"It only remains to congratulate The Prudential on
emerging so triumphantly from the year of test—the
black year 1931. It is the largest insurance institution in
the British Empire, and right worthily does it uphold our
proud traditions ... THE PRUDENTIAL IS THE PER-
FECTION OF STRENGTH AND THE PATTERN OF
EFFICIENCY."
PRUDENTIAL FIGURES
REFLECT CONSTANT PROGRESS
Sixty Years
Ago—lB7l Now—l93l
Prudential Assets - - £420,746 £255,793,860
Prudential Sums Assured - £8,298,704 £712,622,738
(With Bonuses)
Prudential Annual Income £335,773 £46,531,415
Prudential Claims Paid - £787,111 £383,556,358
This phenomenal progress is not the result of
financial wizardry—it is not entirely the product
of super-salesmanship—it is
THE PEOPLE'S RESPONSE TO SOUND,
SUSTAINED ASSURANCE SERVICE
Write for particulars to
The
Prudential Assurance
Company Ltd.
(OF LONDON)
Head Office for Australia and New Zealand:
Herald Building, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney
Phones BW 2885 (3 lines) C. F. WARREN, F.1.A.,
General Manager for Australia and New Zealand
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Liability .. •• •• •• •• •• •• 8,780,00
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
The patriot
|DIRECT^EDiyM^WOME^
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. 0. HINCHOLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
SifrucJ,
S&u&n P 1
t/ie. y'crCs&i.
TheAUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES
chair, and his eyes were incurious, imper-
sonal, as he watched her stride lithely
across the room and tweak affectionately
the golden beard.
“Come on, gasbag, before you get too
tight!”
This sally evoked an appreciative guffaw
from the onlookers. It was the type of
humor that appealed to them.
The blonde giant put his arm around the
girl’s shoulders, a.nd chuckled throatily.
“Tied to me daughter’s apron strings!” he
bellowed jovially, and winked at the assem-
blage. “It’s a terrible thing to be hen-
pecked, I’m telling you. Gabriel, un piccolo
bottello per la Signorina prego!” he added,
and Gabriel came forward, his face crinkled
into a smile of good humor. As he came
to the girl’s side, he raised his hand for
silence.
“You will drink, gentlemen,” he an-
nounced, “to Signorina Etty Smith, la bella
principessa of the Southern Seas.” He
nodded smilingly at the roar of acclamation
that greeted his words, and again he raised
his hand. “And the drinks, gentlemen, will
be on me! ”
The applause this time was deafening,
and redoubled itself as Etty Smith, leaning
over towards the little proprietor, kissed
him heartily on both cheeks.
“My God!” Johns cried aloud, unheeded
in the general noise, “My God!”—he
lowered his voice as he realised that he
was addressing only his own gesthetic soul.
“My God! The hussy!”
But he drank the toast in the cheap wine
with which the busy waiters filled his and
every other glass, and the trace of alcohol
in it eased his twitching nerves for the
moment.
Captain Smith rose reluctantly from the
table as he set down his empty glass.
“Well,” he cried, in mock terror. “I better
get along. Must catch the tide in the
rflOming. Poor men can’t be choosers.”
“Ah, Senor el capitano,” wheezed a half-
breed Spaniard, one of a group that was
sitting at the next table. “But why be
poor—with such a charming daughter?”
The speaker was more than half-drunk,
as were his three compatriots, and as one
man they leered in unison at the girl. It
was a. pleasantry of a type common enough
in Gabriel’s Heaven, but the subject of it,
this time, had been ill chosen. Before the
innuendo had sunken into the mind of
Captain Smith, his daughter had reached
the Spaniard’s table, and with a hissed
“Canaille! ” had tweaked the nose of the
overbold joker.
In Gabriel’s Heaven chivalry had no
place, and, to the half-breed’s mind, there
was only one method of erasing such an
insult as had been flung at him, and such
an injury as had made his eyes stream with
tears. With lightning-like rapidity a knife
flashed into view, and the Spaniard’s hand
hung poised for a moment.
It was then that Ernest William Johns,
M.A. Oxon, came to life. Quicker of in-
tuition than the other onlookers, he had
sensed impending tragedy from the moment
that the Spaniard had first spoken. His
hand had automatically closed over the
half-empty bottle on the table, and now,
with surprising quickness, he threw it.
He had intended to catch the snarling
Spaniard on the side of the head, but in-
stead the bottle landed with a thud on
his shoulder. Nevertheless the result was
satisfactory, for the knife-thrower’s aim was
diverted, and the steel flashed harmlessly
into the air to clatter metallically to the
floor.
The sound seemed to bring Captain Smith
to life, and with a roar like an angry bull,
he sprang forward and took the Spaniard
by the throat.
“Pray, you r , pray!” he bellowed as
he lifted his victim a clear foot off the
floor, and started shaking him ferociously.
“Pray, you damn yellow-livered, squint-
eyed Guinea worm!”
The half-breed’s eyes were popping out
of their sockets, and his face bore a startled
expression that reminded Johns irresistibly
of a tutor of his early days who had labored
under the nickname of Bunny. The recol-
lection, coupled with the excitement that
had preceded it, was too much for his sense
of risibility—his outraged nerves, jangling
with the reaction, suddenly loosed their last
■ vestige of control, and, with no volition on
his part, he started to laugh. At first
quietly, and then in gradually growing cres-
cendo that took on an element of falsetto
as the mirth shook his frame.
The attention of the room was suddenly
focussed on him. He could see that, but
it made no difference. He knew that it was
reckless to laugh—courting trouble—but he
could not help it. There was nothing to be
done about it except to go on. He had to
laugh.
Once more he had the sensation of stand-
ing off, watching his body perform actions
of which he was conscious, but over which
he had no control. Fourth dimensional
stuff again!
He saw the giant turn in amazement at
the sound of his apparent mirth, and then,
evidently thinking that the laughter was
directed at him, drop the Spaniard, by now
purple in the face and with flecks of foam
on his lips, and stare unbelievingly at this
new affront.
He saw the gigantic figure moving
slowly towards him; he heard vague words
uttered that conveyed no sense of meaning
to his mind. The giant was standing over
him now, glaring down at him. The soul
of Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon., hover-
ing, as it seemed to be, over the scene,
appreciated to the full the humor of the
situation. He had once seen a giant mastiff
do 1 the same —drop the terrier he had been
worrying to stare in amazement at. the
yapping of a Pekinese.
That started off a fresh train of humor.
And his body leaned back and his face
stared up at the angry eyes, and he knew
that he was laughing more helplessly than
ever. He saw the giant raise a hand—a
huge hand it was; a leg-of-mutton fist....
mutton old lamb.... “Driving sweet
buds like flocks to feed in air”—Shelley
God! couldn’t he forget his damned past!
And couldn’t he stop laughing?
And then a voice cut through the noise
that he was making: “Father! Don’t! It
was him that chucked the bottle!”
He saw the giant’s hand slowly lowered
—he was not to be hit! His laugh stopped
suddenly. It had been choked in the rack-
ing cough that took hold of him and shook
him mercilessly. His heart was thumping
horribly. Things were going black. “Black
as the pit from pole to pole”—Henley....
God! the sordidness of it all! An M.A.
Oxon. That darkness!
Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon., came
slowly back to a world of pain.
Twice he closed his eyes and tried to sleep
again, but the jumping of his nerves put
an end to any hope of that haven of peace.
There would be no prospect of sleep for
him, he knew, until some more of the
“snow” could be obtained. Curse that
Gabriel! Why had he given him such a
small dose? Why couldn’t his generosity
have gone a little further—given him a
night’s supply?
Perhaps he would let him, have some more
now. That was a brainy thought....a
brainy thought, and he would act on it!
He heard himself call out in a voice that
was little more than a croak. God, but
how his throat hurt! And his supra—ah,
there were footsteps now!
He blinked incredulously. That was the
girl’s face looking down at him. The girl
whom he had saved at Gabriel’s Heaven!
“An angel—in Heaven,” he murmured
croakily. “Even though it is only Gab-
riel’s!” and he grinned inanely. “Venus de
Juno!” he rambled on, with a nod of ap-
probation for the memory of her as she had
appeared in the restaurant. “D’you dwell
among th’ untrodden snows?”
Etty Smith held out a folded slip of
paper. The word “snow” had been to her
the only intelligible sound that had escaped
his lips. She frowned as she saw the tremb-
ling eagerness with which he seized it, and
the clumsiness with which he unfolded it
and pressed it to his nostrils.
“Poor devil!” she observed dispassion-
ately. There was neither sympathy nor
disapproval in her voice. Human wrecks
were every-day objects of every port that
she knew. “Reckon you’re all in.”
Johns nodded without understanding.
The words made little impression on him.
His brain was not clear yet, but in a minute
it would be. The powder had soothed
his nostrils; the supra-orbital nerve had
stopped jumping.
“That came from Gabriel,” the girl
observed, indicating the discarded paper.
“He’s taken a shine to you all right.”
(To be continued next week.)
After Midnight.
Who tapped at the door
In the dark and the rain,
While frozen winds, whimpering,
Fingered the pane?
I peer from the portal. ...
The night—nothing more !
Heart, shaken with thudding,
Who tapped at the door?
Who tapped at the door
On an hour so late?
With the watchdog without
And the bolt on the gate ;
And why do I sense
You beside me once more?
You, under the grasses!
What tapped at the door?
victoria.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
The Lost Bee.
A bee was lost in the town to-day;
A note of flowers and honeydew’,
It eddied over the thrusting crowd,
• It smelled of pollen and grasses new.
A bee was lost in the town to-day.
Brown as closer and sweet as May.
Did it come down from a mountain-top
Where the small pale wattles grow,
With the everlastings pricking gold
And the jasmine, cool as snow,
From those green valleys that hide a star
To the clash of tram and the hoot of car?
A bee was lost in the town to-day;
A bee was lost, but I found the spring,
A tasselled bud and a petal’s lip.
All these were lade of its fragile wing,
Poppies nodding along the lea,
Azure thread of a breaking sea !
Pools where the musky lilies ride,
Dragon-flies in a painted dart,
Sheeny birds with a ruffled crest,
All this came back to a haunted heart.
Shining things in a tangled brake.
And all I loved for my wild youth’s sake!
A bee was lost in the town to-day;
More light than blossom hung high in air,
The autumn moon, like a yellow coin,
The winds of the dawn, like birds, came
there —•
The green plain leapt where all walls were
grey
Where a bee was lost in the town to-day ’
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


EAT
LEs TABLET
r
\
_ (=( rl=H=i^
3d. 6d. & 1 /-
til
©'i
Nestles
OUTDOOR CHOCOLATE
“An ideal man’s chocolate
—an unusual blend of
dark chocolate —bitter-sweet
and smooth-eating, with
choice roasted almonds.
TAKE
TABLET HOME TONIGHT
WOODS great
PEPPERMINT
CURE
For Coughs, Colds and
Influenza.
Sold Everywhere.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The tote buildings on Sydney courses are
still desolate, and there will be no machine-
betting at the Randwick winter meetings
if Lang has his way. Yet proprietary
courses beyond the 40-mile limit are still
allowed as a privilege what Parliament
granted to the A.J.C. as a right. Truly, the
ways of the political nark are inscrutable.
In the circumstances “concession” betting
has been restored to favor; no other form
of wagering was practised much at Moore-
tield on Saturday. To those who have
sampled the thrills of the “win” and “place”
totes at Randwick, it is unsatisfactory and
out of date.
George Price had the pleasure of seeing
two tliree-year-olds from his Randwick
stables, Kichaka (5 to 1) and Sir Ewan
(8 to 1) figure in the finish of the Maiden
Stakes. Kichaka, who won nicely, is Eng-
lish-bred, by Salvo —Gay Nymph; Sir Ewan,
by Chrysolaus—-Shepherd’s Daughter. Lin-
dean (6 to I), who separated the pair, may
turn out better than either, though you can
never tell with these novices; also a three-
year-old, he is by Treclare —Linacitia. He
is owned and trained by C. O. Battye at
Warwick Farm.
Fields were big for the most part at Moore-
field, and betting was wide. “Seven to
four the field,” “eights bar one,” was the
call on the Flying Handicap, with 17 start-
ers, and suspicious followers of the game
sniffed—unwarrantably, it is probable, for
in these days of tight money and scarce
stable supporters, a lot of horses are being
sent for the stake-money. The warm favo-
rite. Orby Anthus, ran well, but not well
Bert'/Did you hawe a good
holiday ?"
Gert 1 * Ripping,, thanks ?
Bert; v Spose you didn't run across
A FELLOW NAMED BlNK=>?"
<S)ERT ! "O R, \ Dont stop to
Take THE.IR. fames''
enougli ; he was beaten into second place by
Sweet Maggie (12 to 1), one of Booth’s;
Anchor (8 to 1) was third, and Cleave and
Vallage next. Sweet Maggie is a three-year-
old, by Magpie—Sweet Lady. She had won
well at her last start.
G. 11. Moody paid up for Rogerson and
Firbolg in the Moorefield Handicap, but
scratched Rogerson on the course. Firbolg,
who had dead-heated with Snow Sun in the
Menangle Handicap on the Wednesday,
proved an unworthy substitute; Trenette,
the favorite, looked sure to win at the home
turn, but stopped in the straight, leaving the
finish to Dear March (10 to 1), Exact (5
to 1) and Australian Belle (10 to 1). Dear
March got his head in front of Exact and
kept it there. He is a six-year-old bay
gelding by March Along—Duchess Dear, and
was bred by the late John Brown; Lightfoot
rode him cleverly. A half-brother to Tren-
ette in Lc Berger was very unluckily de-
feated by Delray (20 to 1) in the Juvenile
.Handicap.
Punters had been faring badly. , Many of
them went for a recovery on Panola (2 to
1) in the Rockdale Mile, but the mare ran
auother poor race, though she looked well
enough. Alienor, this Page’s first choice
(Sweet Maggie was its second selection for
the Flying Handicap) beat off Herolage (7
to 1) and Hurry Scurry (15 to 1) in an
exciting tussle. A black mare, by Doric —
Llanilly, trained by G. P. Nailon for E. J.
Watts, Alienor is useful. She was backed
from sixes to fives.
* * * *
For Randwick on Saturday :
Flying Handicap: Maybe; next, Anchor.
Tattersall’s Stakes: Khartoum; next,
Kichaka.
James Barnes Stakes: Rogerson; next,
Exact.
Welter Handicap: Burwood; next Intre-
pid or Rodondo. .
Ascot was again the rendezvous for Mel-
bourne racegoers last Saturday, and 12 events
were disposed of between 12.30 p.m. and
5.15, when rapidly-gathering darkness con-
verted runners in the last heat of the Ascot
Purse into unidentifiable silhouettes as they
sped over the mile. If these mammoth pro-
grammes are to continue a much earlier start
will have to be made. Owing to Peter
Keirce, the starter, being on holiday leave
G. J. 0. Dyatt, the club secretary, who is
president of the Returned Soldiers’ Assoc.,
officiated at the machine.
Ivaromin (Great Star —Monodia) landed
the Five Hundred in fine style. He is a
half-brother to Outlook (by The Welkin),
who in the spring of 1918 credited his breeder,
James Wilson, with the A.J.C. Sires Pro-
duce Stakes and Champagne Stakes and
was bought for 3000gns. by the late Sam
Mackay, of AVestralia. Outlook was a disap-
pointing three-year-old. His dam, noiv in the
St. Albans stud of Raymond and Ranken,
was foaled as far back as 1910. Odds of
5 to 1 were freely accepted about Karomin,
and, coming at the right end of the race, he
won easily from the former Sydney per-
former Credence. The last-named horse has
been banned on V.R.C. courses in Melbourne,
but he behaved with the utmost docility at
the post on Saturday.
Paquin (AH Black —Lady Artful) has
almost as bad a reputation as Credence for
misconduct at the post, and more than once
has failed to get away with the field. This
caused Bill Gerrard’s mare to go out at the
liberal price of 10 to 1 for the first heat of
the Ascot Purse. She squeezed home by half
a neck from Scintillation. When in the
right humor Scintillation can gallop as fast
as Karomin, her stable-companion, but she is
not often in a generous mood.
Juvenile handicaps are well patronised at
Ascot. For the race on Saturday 22
accepted and 13 went to the post. Protea
(by Equator) and Greenlaw (by Greenstead)
were at the top of the weights, and they
shared favoritism. It was the first appear-
ance of Greenlaw at Ascot, but he had
shaped satisfactorily in a trial there. Ridden
by Ray Wilson, the Greensfead gelding beat
the barrier slightly, and went on to score
easily from Protea.
* * * *
For Moonee Valley on Saturday:—
Brunswick Steeplechase: Jumna or Pre-
cocious.
Nonga Handicap: Thrawn or Mural
Crown.
$ * * *
Gloaming, one of the fastest horses Aus-
tralia and Maoriland have seen, and Poitrel,
the first horse to beat him at w.f.a., have
died in the same week. By The Welkin-
Light, Gloaming was foaled in Victoria, and
was fortunate in finding a rare sportsman for
a purchaser in Maorilander G. D. Greenwood,
With his wife, who has written a most in-
teresting book about the great racehorse, Mr.
Greenwood took the keenest interest in what
was practically a member of the family. R. J.
Mason, trainer of Gloaming throughout his
racing career, placed his charge with such
keen judgment that in 67 starts he scored 57
wins and 9 seconds, being only once unplaced.
Poitrel, one of the best stayers Aus-
tralia has seen, died at Tarong station,
in Queensland, where he was at the stud,
having been originally purchased by the late
Ernest Lord, later passing to the Clapper-
ton brothers. The son of St. Alwyne beat
all the great horses of his time, among them
Desert Gold and Gloaming, and he wound
lip his career by taking the Melbourne Cup
with 10 stone up—a wonderful feat for a
horse that was little more than a pony. At
the stud he got few good ones, the best being
Belgamba, the triple Leger winner of 1926.
* * * *
Death has laid its hand on several people
well known in Victorian racing circles. On
May 4 the widow of Tommy Hales passed
away in Melbourne, aged 67. She was a
daughter off the late William Blackler, who
conducted the Fulham Park (S.A.) stud,
where Richmond sired so many great win-
ners. Hales had no peer as a lightweight
jockey in the ’seventies and ’eighties. He
died a comparatively poor man; the V.R.C.
and the A..LC. made Mrs. Hales a compas-
sionate allowance up to the time of her
demise. E. 11. Shackell, who died last
Friday, was a brother-in-law of E. L. and
C. Baillieu. He shared their love of horses,
and raced on a mild scale; Va Vite carried
the Shackell colors in recent Melbourne
races. E. J. Lawrence, whose death in Bris-
bane was reported at the week-end, was sec-
retary of the Richmond (Vic.) pony course
before John Wren bought it.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Russian Tom Lurich expects to wrestle in
America soon, so, just to show his superio-
rity over opponents at Leichhardt, he beat
Alex. Lundyn (13-10) by two falls to one
on Saturday night. Lundyn’s flying tackle
with a body-press took tbc first fall in the
third round. Lurich (14-2) was always the
stronger, however, and his aeroplane-spin
evened the score in the fourth. Still suffer-
ing from the effects of colliding with the
floor, Lundyn was feeble in the next round,
and Lurich lost no time in slamming him for
the decider.
Footbrawl
The Victorian League games in Melbourne
drew the usual big crowds on Saturday,
weather conditions being excellent. Gee-
long, last year’s premiers, got home from
Collingwood by 11 points—l 3-16 to 12-11.
Essendon had an easy run against North Mel-
bourne, winning 113-96. Footscray towelled
up Fitzroy by 95 to 52. South Melbourne,
the club which many are tipping for this
year’s premiership, made short work of Carl-
ton, final scores reading 113 to 75 in favor
of the Red and Whites. St. Kilda outed
Hawthorn by 115 to 82, and Richmond’s
Tigers gave Melbourne something to go on
with, the Stripes putting up the cricket score
of 116 to 55 by the Red Legs.
ijc s£ ❖
“Rover” : N.S.W. Australian Rules autho-
rities have regretfully decided to abandon
their intention of sending a side to Tassy to
play a match each in Hobart and Launces-
ton early in June. Hard times and the very
inadequate steamer service between the Speck
and the mainland were responsible for the
decision. A pity matches between the three
“minor States,” as the big chiefs of Victoria
South Australia and Westralia scornfully
style them, cannot be made an annual insti-
tution. Such a scheme would do the game
a lot of good in N.S.W. and Queensland, and
even help it along in Tassy, where it has
no rival. Sydney enthusiasts will thus have
to look to the match against a Victorian
side at Sydney Cricket Ground on June 11
for an interlude in the premiership competi-
tion.
* * * *
The Rugby codes had a field day on Satur-
day, Queensland meeting N. S. Wales in Bris-
bane under Union rules, and the N.S.W.
Rugby League entertaining the Banana-
landers in: Sydney. The Brisbane affair
ended in a narrow win for N.S.W. by 9 to
8 (2 tries and a penalty goal to a converted
try and a penalty). The game was one of
the finest seen in the long series between
the States, and the closing stages, with the
Queenslanders desperately forcing the pace
and N.S.W. as desperately defending, fairly
swept the big crowd off its feet. Lawton,
whose play more than justified his return
to big football, opened the home sides
account with a penalty, which quickly
equalised. Louden and Towers each •added
a try, neither of which was converted, -and
at half-time the tourists led 9-3. In the
second spell, Queensland, headed by Lawton,
led a staggering sustained attack, and the
visitors must be accounted lucky to save
their bacon. Ross was in his best form at
full for N.S.W., but his vis-a-vis, Steggall,
was scarcely less competent. Lawton s re-
turn to form is gratifying. The old Oxford
and Australian five-eighth will be - badly
needed against the All Blacks and South
Africa. N.S. \V. employed the South African
3-4-1 scrum, but with less success than ex-
pected, the home side, thanks to Bonis,
getting the better share of the ball.
* * * if
The Rugby League game between N. S.
Wales and Queensland was played on
Sydney Sports Ground before a fat
gate, and ended in a shattering defeat
for the home side, which dropped by
23. points to 15 (5 tries and 4 penalty
goals to 3 tries, 2 converted, and a penalty
goal). The scores give no idea of the visitors'
superiority on the day, for in pace, security
of handling, opportunism and combination,
and particularly in defence, they quite out-
shone N. S. Wales. Maloney, a big and
speedy wing three-quarter, got 17 of Queens-
land’s points. N. S. Wales opened the scor-
ing with a penalty goal, but at half-time the
scores were 11-2 against them. For a period
in the second spell the home side showed
distinct improvement, and began to tack oy
points. The visitors again took command
in the closing stages and were well on ton
of the opposition when the bell went. The
giant Queenslander Madsen was the out-
standing forward on the field, while Gilbert
played a very taking game at half. A pupil
of the famous Duncan Thompson, he dis-
plays many of his tutor’s familiar tricks and
mannerisms. Prigg, of Newcastle, playing
alternately forward and back, was a tower
of strength to N.S.W., while Norman was
the best of a shaky lot of backs.
si: 4s * sis
“Gate”: The annual move by a section of
the N.S.W. Rugby League diehards to secede
from the “Australian” Board of Control- —
this is composed of delegates from N.S.W.
and Queensland —came the usual flop the
other day. The Ma State was the first to
impose the delights of professional Rugby
on Australia, and for many years ran the
roost in haughty fashion. The growing
importance of the Queensland section and
its disinclination to bow the knee to the
Sydney Baal led to alarms and excursions,
which finally led to the appointment of a
joint board to conduct the industry and
see fair play among the partners. The
objecting section lias never forgotten the
brightness of the limelight and the other
little privileges of the days when it was
the whole team and Queensland only the
little yellow dog under the waggon.
4> * * '=
“Mayham”: Every year at the close of
the American football season, the newspapers
count up their dead and ask if something
cannot be done to abolish the murderous
“sport.” This year qnly 27 deaths directly
resulting from the game occurred. Since
American football is almostly solely confined
to the universities, the casualty list is the
more regrettable. One suggestion is that
the defensive armor worn by the players be
abolished. It is held that this would make
players more careful about, the punching,
wrestling and other amenities, which are
permitted by the American code. There
have been several attempts made to substitute
the Rugby Union game for the American,
but all have fizzled out. The truth is that
the huge crowds which go to see this game
want bloodshed and plenty of it, just as
the people who attend “wrestling” in Aus-
tralia cry to Heaven if clean wrestling with-
out fouls or clowning is attempted.
(Continued on page 31.)
The eight-oar race for the headship of the
Parramatta River came off on Satur-
day, St. Joseph’s winning by three-quar-
ters of a length, after a desperate finish
with Church of England Grammar School.
St. Joseph’s also took the first fours
from Sydney Grammar. A big and heavy
crew, the winners have not scored out of
their turn, for their last victory was in
1916. In the series, which began in 1910,
St. Joseph’s have triumphed three times,
the first occasion being in 1911. They
are still fourth on the winning list, at the
head of which Sydney and Church of Eng-
land Grammar tie with 13 wins each.


-
mmsm
BH
in
lIHS
HHS
i
• •
;
'O
•' •'
B
11
i a
mm
It
mm
m * m
r?
I:! ,
l
mj*> •'?& * -ff I ;f- -«
■ 40
A
DECKS P A C E
is one of the strongest points of
the Orient Line. The great decks
evidence a consideration for pas-
sengers’ well-being which extends
to the smallest detail of Orient
ships and service. For the com-
pletest comfort one travels Orient
First Saloon. If economy is
necessary there are the Orient
Tourist steamers —and for utmost
economy Orient Third Class.
Whatever the fare you may
rely on Orient Comfort.
ORIENT LINE
Footbrawl
“Hooker”: The success of the N.S.W.
Western Suburbs Rugby Union team with the
"South African” scrum has led to the adop-
tion by side of the same formation.
This made such an impression in Britain dur-
ing the triumphal tour this year of the Spring-
boks that even the conservative Scots have
been considering following suit. As opposed
to the British and Australian 3-2-3 scrum,
the South Africans pack up 3-4-1. It sounds
clumsy, but in practice it has been found
that the four men in the second row make
the scrum much tighter, with the result that
the ball can be got out more quickly to the
backs if heeling is the game. The solitary
lad in the back row acts as breakaway for
either side of the pack, though he puts his
weight into the shoving. In fact, he is
something like the All* Black wing-forward,
though he is behind the body of the scrum
and not alongside it.
* « * *
“Rus”: The N.S.W. Rugby League,
which lias wished several matches with the
English League side, due here at the end
of the month, on to various country centres, '
is demanding a guarantee of £l5O before
its circus is permitted to show in any of
the rural fastnesses. If any one centre
already agreed upon as a stamping ground
is shy on the ante, then the match is to be
transferred to some other locality where the
local inhabitants are satisfactorily financial.
Cash is not actually insisted on, but, while
a guarantee will be accepted, it will have
to be of such a brass-bound, copper-bottomed
complexion that even Lang couldn’t wriggle
out of it.
:1s :J: :1s ❖
“Brilliant Deeps” : It is refreshing to an
old North Queenslander to read that a
Rugby League team from the tropics, where
a white man cannot live, beat the pick of
South Queensland in Brisbane the other day.
Once upon a time the only towns in the
North to play Rugby footer —Union, of
course—were Charters Towers and Towns-
ville. Their match was an annual affair, each
team visiting the other in turn, and after
the matter of the football had been settled
the serious business of the day—to say noth-
ing of the night and early morning—began.
All inhabitants of the hotels in which the
visiting team was staying who had any
claim to ultra-respectability—and I’m afraid
there were not many of them —retired
by tacit consent of all parties to some other
lodging for the night. There were stal-
warts who stood their ground, but they
usually lived to regret it.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Playing at Los Angeles,
Harry Hopman was badly licked in a three-sat
go by the local champion, Lester Stoefen, who
is not even in the latest American rating
list. Worse than that, Jack Crawford had
to go 12-10, 12-10 to beat another American
unknown, Herrington by name. It was cer-
tainly exhibition tennis on hard courts, but
both Hopman and Crawford are well used
to those. The team is now off to Cuba, via
New Orleans, and it is to be hoped that the
lads will wake up and not repeat the futile
performances of the last trip.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Quite one of the
most interesting personalities in the opening
of the European tennis season was Mine.
Mathieu, who won the women’s singles at
the Bournemouth tournament. Since Susan
Lenglen kicked herself out of the amateur
game, Mme. Mathieu has been in the fore-
front of France’s women tennis-players.
Though in her early twenties, she has
made three contributions to the manhood of
the French nation. Married at 16, she
entered for the junior championship of
France—which she won —after she had
became a mother. The minimum junior age
under the French rules is 18, and when the
lady appeared on the courts the committee,
after turning sundry somersaults, asked for
her birth certificate. This was duly pro-
duced, and after giving the bebe his lunch,
Mme. proceeded to take the championship.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: The long-drawn-out adventure
of Norman Smith, who went to Maoriland
with a special car some months ago to make
an attempt on the world’s speed record, has
come to a definite end, for the time being
at least. After weary waiting for the
Kaitaia Beach to come up to his require-
ments, Smith had a go at the five miles
record last week, but a fire in one of the
carburetters made the run a washout. Smith
has decided to give up further attempts until
next year at least, and he is sending the car
back to Australia. As the engine in the
car belongs to the Royal Air Force and is
only on loan, it will be interesting to see if
the British authorities agree to leave the
mystery gadget, for the return of which they
demanded substantial guarantees, in the
hands of the present holders.
* * * *
“Disc Clutch” : Months ago Wizard Smith
and Don Harkness, the driver and designer
of the car built to attack the world’s speed
record in Maoriland, parted brass rags.
Smith having decided to abandon his shy
at the record for this year, his quondam
cobber has cabled to the M.L. motor heads
saying that he is ready and willing to cross
the Tasman and have a go at Malcolm Camp-
bell’s figures himself. If the M.L. motor
authorities don’t fancy him as a driver,
Harkness says he will hand over the wheel
to anyone on whom the local heads decide.
There are legal complications in view, how-
ever, and it is doubtful if anything more
will be heard of the matter.
Si Si Si S:
“Make and Break”: The news that Mal-
colm Campbell has. asked the Air Ministry
for the loan of the latest model of the Rolls-
Royce “Schneider Trophy” engine for use
in his next attempt to break his own world’s
record of 267.45 m.p.h. will cause little sur-
prise. When he put up his record at Day-
tona his top speed with a wind in his favor
was something over 270 m.p.h., and he must
have realised this was about the best he
could ever get out of the 1450-h.p. Napier
engine in the Bluebird car. The new engine
is rated at 2650 h,p. Whether Campbell’s well-
tried car will be able to stand up to this
tremendous power remains to be seen. How-
ever, he can be trusted to know all
about that, and the chassis will no doubt
be reconditioned, as it has been on previous
occasions.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: A curious golf incident is
reported from Sydney. Playing at Roseville
club, a golfer was on the green and in the
act of putting when a ball driven by a fol-
lowing player struck the ball being addressed
for the putt, knock-
ing it well off the
green. It is further
stated that the player
concerned, who was
one up, played his
ball as it lay and
managed to halve the
hole. As a matter
of fact, under Rule
17, he had the right
to replace his ball
“deflected by an
agency outside the
match” w ithoui
penalty.
“Iloylake”: It is
not often that a golf
club calls on a
woman to play for
it in a match. This
was the experience
of Joyce Wetliered
recently. She turn-
ed out for a club
named Tadmarten
Heath against a
team of Oxford play-
ers. She was to
have partnered her
fiance Colonel Hut-
chison, in the four-
somes, but the en-
gagement was broken
off before the game,
and she played with
Beaumont Pease, a top-notch amateur. The
pair were beaten by a couple of comparative
unknowns, and the lady had a similar ex-
perience in the singles, wherein an absolute
dark horse in J. W. Adams beat her 3 and
2. Yet good judges declare that if Joyce
entered for the British amateur champion-
ship—-as she is entitled to do, of course,
just as any other associate member is—she
might win it.
“Iloylake” : British golfers have again been
discussing the advisability of abolishing the
stymie. The latter is one of the curiosities
of a curious game, and no one seems to know
its origin. It is only recognised in match
play and not in stroke, bogey or par com-
petitions, and many clubs have wiped it out
altogether under local rules. It has lost
the match many a time to the better player
who has found his access to the tin barred
through no fault of his own —very often,
indeed, through the bad putting of liis
opponent. Its abolition would be generally
A BELT AND SOME BELTING.
popular, and in these days when golf has
accepted such innovations as steel-shafted
clubs, peg tees, the lifting and placing of the
ball on the green under certain conditions.
and various other departures from the old
laws, the extirpation of the stymie should
cause no regrets even to the most confirmed
last-ditcher.
Miscellaneous
“I-lardshell”: After spurning a Chinese
gentleman who tried to sell me a small tor-
toise in Sydney, it occurred to me that the
N.S.W. Government has overlooked the .sport
of tortoise-racing as practised by myself and
friends in our leisure moments in Sinai some
years ago. With a pal I owed the 'Pliar
Lap of his kind, and he brought us in quite
a good few piastres one way and the other —•
especially the other. The method was to
draw a large circle with a stick in the centre.
The field, each tortoise branded with indel-
ible pencil, was placed with the front of each
shell touching the stick. Betting was wide
open, before fiagfall and on the running, and
the first over the line in any direction was
the winner. After half a dozen wins one
of the leading bookies made us an offer for
our tortoise. We consented on condition
that we would start him in the first, the pur-
chase money having been paid down before
going on the course. Our one-time property
was duly placed by us front to the stake,
and the 'bookie backed him for a skinner. He
never moved, and investigation showed that
he had been dead some 24 hours. We were
absent at the time, but a pal collected our
bets for us.
:Js H* * *
“Tenth Slip”: It seems fairly certain that
Australia’s old friend P. F. Warner will
come to Australia as manager of the next
English cricket side, it being generally
accepted in England that Jardine, as captain,
will be lacking in that affability which the
Australian “colonials” are reputed to expect
from everyone. Warner, who hails originally
from the West Indies, can be expected to
pose as a “colonial” himself, though merci-
fully tempered by Rugby and Oxford. He
has a reputation for affability, but I dunno.
The man in charge of one of Australia s big-
gest cricket grounds once gave the writer
iiis own impressions on that subject. One
night, during a critical Test, he found that
Warner, without consulting him, had posted
an all-night picket on the pitch in case
it should be watered to the detriment of the
English innings next, day. In the breezy
exchange of compliments that followed,
Warner’s affability was in inverse ration to
his fluency.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Nineteen-year-old Horace
Liudrum, nephew of tile famous Walter,
capped his victory over Frank Smith, of
Sydney, for the Australian snooker cham-
pionship by hoisting a world’s record break
of 137 in Melbourne last week. The pre-
vious best, according to the books, was 134
by one O’Donoghue in Auckland (M.L.). but
snooker records are rather hazy at the best.


END RHEUMATISM
AND BACKACHE
By Driving Out the Cause!
Harrison’s Pills immediately overcome Rheu
matic, Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Aches and
Pains by eliminating the cause. Every man
and woman knows that the blood decides
health, strength, looks and length of life. If
the blood is poisoned with uric acid, it natur-
ally follows that back pains, rheumatism,
swollen joints, stiff muscles, inflammation and
urinary irritation ensue. Neglect may lead to
serious kidney, bladder and even heart trouble.
Consider these facts carefully. Get a package
of Harrison’s Pills to-day and take as directed.
You will be amazed at the difference in your
health, looks and general bearing. Thousands
of one-time sufferers praise the merits of
Harrison’s Pills, many saying that this remedy
has given them the relief long sought, where
all else had failed. Your chemist or store sells
Harrison’s Pills in three sizes: 18 pills, 2/-:
32 pills, 3/-; 68 pills, 5/-. Genuine, worth-
while relief and benefit from the very first
bottle, or money back guaranteed.
ROYAL GOLD & CURRENCY EXCHANGE CO
40 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Phone 85417.
Also at
328 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
English Silver Coin.
English Copper Coin..
English Notes
Sovereign
Licensed Buyers of
kinds.
Highest Rates for the following Currency:
£l3 6 N.Z. Notes . . ..£ll6
116 Canadian Dollar Bills 5 8
14 9 American Dollar Bills 6 5
1 11 9 American Silver Dollars 6 6
Alluvial Gold and Broken Jewellery of all
Specialists in Black Opals.
(Registered)
Reference:
E„ S. & A.
Bank, Sydney.
New Zealand
and Interstate
clients consign
all goods
direct.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
M’g Directors: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
CRITERION: THE BARRETTS OF
WIMPOLE STREET.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: BLUE ROSES.
With MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD.
KING’S THEATRE :
TURN TO THE RIGHT.
Patents.
IMPROVED LEAD ALLOYS.
'T’HE proprietors of Commonwealth Patent
No. 7108/27 are prepared to negotiate
for the sale of their rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Legal Notice.
THOMAS HUBERT FITCH
MARY POSTLETHWAITE GARDINER
Deceased.
JTOR the purpose of inquiries pursuant to Order
of the Ist February 1932 of the High Court
Messrs. Corbin Ureener and Cook, 52 Bedford Row
Postlethwaite Gardiner (who died intestate on 4th
August 1931 in London England) Gardiner and
Another v. Bowyer 1932 G. 34 for the purpose of
ascertaining the persons entitled to any property
of the Intestate all persons claiming to be so entitled
are by Ist July 1932 to send in their claims to
George Shorrock Asheombe Wheatcroft a partner in
Messrs. Corbin Greener and Cook 52 Bedford Row
London W.C.I England Solicitors with full par-
ticulars and in the case of those residing out of
England and Wales the name and address of some
person in England or Wales to whom notices to the
claimant may be sent —in default thereof they will
be excluded from the benefit of the Order unless
the Court on application otherwise orders. The
adjudication on claims is on the Bth day of July
1932 at 12 o’clock noon before Master Willmott at
Room 237 Royal Courts of Justice Strand London
England.
Note: Eizabeth Sarah Fitch a cousin of the
Intestate among others had a son Thomas Hubert
Fitch who went to New Zealand some years ago where
he is believed to have married and had children. The
said Thomas Hubert Fitch may be interested under
the said inquiry.
Dated the 23rd day of March, 1932.
M. G. WILLMOTT,
Master.
CORBIN GREENER & COOK,
52 Bedford Row, London, W.C.I.
■"THE only two Australian newspapers
1 whose reviews of the wonderful
colored picture issue of “The Times
Weekly Edition” were quoted in “The
Times” were “The Argus” and
“THE BARRIER MINER,”
one a metropolitan and the other a
provincial daily newspaper.
All the Broken Hill people and the Par West
people are proud to see their own daily paper
thus picked out by “The Thunderer” as repre-
sentative of Australia.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
The G.P.S. head-of-the-river semis and
finals were rowed on soft, silky afternoons,
and the Parramatta has never been more beau-
tiful nor had its silvery sheen more thor-
oughly ignored. Nothing mattered to the
hundred thousand watchers in ferries, on
launches and on Cabarita Point but the
crews, whose colors were duplicated in the
flapper’s scarf and beret, in the bunches of
ribbons that flowed from lapels, that tied
up the thousands of cars parked above Put-
ney and Mortlake and along the whole course
of the race. The air was raucous with
shouts of “Shore !” “Joeys !” “Grammar!”
Through gaily-striped cardboard megaphones
schoolgirls trumpeted their heroes on to
victory or defeat, and schoolboys bellowed
themselves hoarse. Car-sirens tooted, atten-
tion hung on those glistening oars as though
the fate of Australia depended on the result.
Iu the end, when Joeys won both eights and
fours, the megaphones and the sirens joined
in one wild burst, of applause. The eights
in particular had been a great race, the best
crew had won. and the result was extra-
ordinarily popular—it was Joeys’ first win
in 16 years, though often they had been a
close runner-up, and always they had been
good losers.
When night came the day’s excitement
oozed into every show in town —even into
the opera, where fortunately the jolly “Bar-
ber” held the stage. Older barrackers popped
off to the dances which filled every ballroom
in the city. There were Regatta Balls, Head-
of-the-River Balls, Aquatic Revels. Some
of these were for charity; one of the most
successful was run by Margery Ward and
a younger group of Prince Alfred Hospital
helpers. The sale of tickets for this had to
be stopped days before. One of its attrac-
tions was Lady Cliaytor, the overseas air-
woman. The Bush Nurses will get the
cheque from the dancing hundreds at David
Jones’s. The vice-regals turned up to this,
and with president Mrs. Gates sat at a
table decorated with a bush home complete
with bush nurse and camp-fire and boiling
billy. The Old Boys of Scots foregathered
at the Wentworth, the South Sydney Hospi-
tal gleaned the shekels of the dance at the
State Assembly, Old Cranbrookians turned
up at the Prince Edward Motor Yacht Club,
and, though they came home last in the big
race finals. King’s crews and their coaches
spent a jolly evening together at the dinner
which the Head gives after the great day
every year.
A month from the time he left Sydney last
week Earl Beauchamp expects to be back in
England. He has had one of the jolliest,
least conventional holidays of his life, and,
in spite of the touch of fever that rather
spoiled his journey down from Java, is look-
ing pink of cheek and blue of eye. Rotorua,
where he did the baths and the sights, he
says, is so picturesque by day that you
overlook its dulness by night. But maybe
the lack of great white lights is due to the
eivic fathers’ belief that, as many visitors are
there for health’s sake, early bedtime is
good for them. Anyway, to one who as a
very young man was head of King Edward’s
'household, the Rotoruas of the world could
never seem anything but Arcadian.
Of course, lie was at Hugh D. Mclntosh’s
Stadium to hand over the Beauchamp .belt
to the winner of the heavyweights. The
ring, just after the battle, was a welter of
loud-speakers, heavyweights, aspirants for
film fame and such like. Everybody made
a speech. In the audience were Judges,
K.C.’s, clerics, girls from the exclusive
suburbs with escorts in dinner-suits, girls
from the outer suburbs with their young men,
children, ex-pugs, present pugs, old boys from
the Union Club, girls who looked like sub.
debs, and mere husbands and wives. The
place was a seething mass of humans—not
a ten- or five-shilling seat, nor a three or
a two, as far as the eye could reach, empty.
Hugh D. was rushing round, stage-managing
everything, making the people in the ring
and those watching them thoroughly at home
with one another. It looks to this Letter
as though one way to cure the depression
might be to turn Parliament House into a
stadium and engage Hugh D. to run prize
fights between Lang and Lyons, Stevens and
Garden, De Groot and Supe. Mackay.
A day or two before his departure Earl
Beauchamp was at a lunch party. Two of
the guests were discussing artists’ balls in
general and the last one in particular. “Do
you ever go to artists’ balls?” asked one.
“Well,” the Earl replied, “if I had been in
Sydney I should certainly have gone to your
artists’ ball, and gone in character.” “Do
tell us what you would have gone as!” The
blue eyes twinkled and looked too widely
innocent. “As a Seidlitz powder, of course,”
their owner murmured, and swallowed an-
other oyster. (But, of course, you don’t
remember that little sensation. Lord 8.,
arriving in N. S. Wales as Governor—the
youngest Governor that ever was—projected
a great party, and the invitations being too
many for one evening, he split them into
two; one lot was issued on white and the
other on blue paper. Of course it was said
that the nobs and the merely snobs had been
separated; and wasn’t there a fizzing in
consequence!)
On this visit, as always, N. S. Wales’s
former Governor was deeply interested in
Australian writers. He took away with him
a collection of books, among them “Lasseter’s
Last Ride” and “Forever Morning.”
Something of our art will soon be known
in Finland, for the Consul of that intellec-
tual country has bought one of B. E. Minus’s
abos., and intends to send it to his home
town. The Millions Club lately bought the
same artist’s “Bullock Team,” surrounded
by typical bush scenery. At least one of
Minns’s melting Harbor studies hangs in
New York—it was the most-prized presen-
tation to the Ernest Jenks couple, who were
here for some time on the business of the
Alexander Hamilton Institute, of whose cor-
respondence classes Ernest’s father was the
founder.
Mrs. Charles Regan, of Tamworth, with
daughter Mary, went off by the Mongolia on
a visit to her married daughter in London.
Before she sailed Mrs. Regan gave her
blessing and congratulations to son Laurence,
who has become engaged to Claire Porter, of
Double Bay. Claire is the elder daughter of
the W. T. Porters and a cousin of the pretty
Anderson girls, Irene and Jean. Laurence
is managing director of the varied Regan
interests in Tamworth. Henry Braddon’s
lady was another who went off by the Mon-
golia. Mark Sheldon’s lady also is off to visit
members of her family who live in England;
but she is half-way on her journey by now.
On the other hand, Frank Liddell, who has
been living for many years abroad, is
amongst the many with whom an adverse
rate of exchange and a desire to see his
native land have coincided. He is renew-
ing old friendships at the Union Club.
Patricia Pan tin, a recent recruit to the
ranks of the Pickwick Theatre Group, was
Florence Lan-
caster in Noel
Coward’s “The
Vortex,” and
practically car-
ried the show.
A Melbourne
girl, Pat was
brought out
by Dune a n
M a c d ougall,
who used her
talents in a
number of
Playbox pro-
ductions. Visi-
tors to the old
Rowe - street
theatre still
remember her
work i n
“S p r e a d
Eag 1 e” and
“Chicago.” For
a while she
was associated with Doris Fitton’s Indepen-
dent Theatre company, and had rdles in
“And So to Bed” and “Street Scene.” Busi-
ness called her to Brisbane, where she made
her first appearance as a radio lecturer—she
spoke on hooks, psychology and beauty cul-
ture. At the beginning of this year she
appeared with the Pickwick Players in
“Cynara.”
In old Seville young love went serenading
to the accompaniment of lutes. Rosina was
young and fair and heavily enough gilded,
her lover noble and adventurous, her guard-
ian strict and jealous. Who but Figaro, the
town barber, could make a double-bed out of
such a triangle? So on Saturday night at
Her Majesty's the inventive Figaro, the man
whose art unlocks the proudest portals, gaily
set out once more on the task of uniting
Count Almaviva and the seductive Rosina.
Rosina, so plump, so warbling, so roving of
glance, so bright of plumage, her heels tap-
ping through the high, dull rooms, conscious
that outside trees burgeoned and a young
man sighed for her—in short, a mmx is
ready to turn an ear to every whisper of
mischief the spring wind and the Barber
carried.
The evergreen story was followed by a
packed house. Granforte’s Figaro was dash-
ing and comic, and the men artists who sat
or stood about the circle sent down salvos
of applause. Castagna and Surani sat in
the left-hand box, glittering with diamente;
and “Butterfly” Valobra, in ivory georgettes
and a cloudy-pink wrap, was in the audience.
Italy’s Consul-General Grossardi and his
wife, she in her favorite black, were not-
ables ; the A. 0. Godhards, the Bertie Kellys,
the Spencer Bruntons, the Alf Edward
couple, Dr. Orchard, the Anderson-Tyrers
(he’s examiner for Trinity College), the Jus-
tice Evatts, she in white lace and a powder-
blue velvet coat, the Hugh Denisons, Mrs.
Sep Levy, wrapped to the teeth in squirrel;
Miss K. Egan, in black and gold; May
Sheehan, Anne Jenkins and Margaret Chalm-
ers were other opera perennials.
Will Ashton’s show in the Macquarie Gal-
leries was opened only on Thursday, and
already he has sold just on 400 guineas’
worth. This takes in the “Afternoon on the
Seine,” which the Gallery bought for 200
guineas. These sales are a record for this
poor season, and Lionel Lindsay, who opened
his friend’s exhibition, is beaming over the
figures.
Isolde Hill is the gifted daughter of com-
poser-conductor Alfred, and before the opera
season ends is
to appear in
lyric roles.
She will pro-
bably sing tli.'
name-part in
“B u t terfly."
She is a wil-
lowy creature,
simply exud-
ing music, and
the Italian
artists are so
i mpresse d
with her that
they are re-
hearsing her
privately. She
is a pupil of
Roland Fos-
ter’s, and has
found time for
matrimony
an d mother-
hood ; and to
father Alfred’s great delight one of her
children promises to be as gifted a conductor
as he himself. Photo from Lupton.
Home-grown composer Joseph Post made
a brilliant success of his conducting of
“Aida,” using his own vocal score for the
big event. At the finish, after the custo-
mary laurel wreath had been handed to
him, he was presented with a complete re-
cording of “Pagliacci” (Granforte singing
the name-part) from the local artists. On
the front of the card were the usual con-
gratulatory messages and wishes for success,
and on the hack lipstick marks where the
girls had kissed it. These red marks puzzled
the receiver for some moments, until their
origin was explained to him —with or with-
out demonstration this Letter knows not.
When the curtain had fallen for the last
time, the complete cast of “Aida,” principals
and all, gathered around and sang “For He’s
a Jolly Good Fellow,” the Italians joining
in mostly with smiles.
Time was when the young woman who had
broken into the new field of journalism was
careful to explain that she did it because
she just hated to be cooped up at home,
facing housework which -she simply couldn’t
do. Nowadays the press-girl rather glories in
her cooking. There’s Nellie Scanlan, for in-
stance—the Maorilander whose third story-
book has just followed fast on the heels of
two others. She’s as proud of her omelettes
as of the best her busy pen has ever done.
Doris Fitton has done it again ! In spite
of friendly advice she went on with the pro-
duction of “The Circle of Chalk,” and Satur-
day night’s presentation held such color,
music and exotic charm that probably the
three-night season will have to be extended.
A good deal of the success sprang from the
fact that the graceful Marie Rosenfeld was
the heroine. Marie, in her white Chinese
suit, its tunic thickly embroidered, its high
straight collar enhancing the clean line of
her chin, seemed to combine the innocence of
the dove with the wisdom of the ages. Clar-
ence Murphy, as her prince poet, was equ-
ally pictorial when, in mandarin red, violet,
black and gold, a long lilac tassel dangling
from his cap in the first act, he finds his
love in the house of joy; or later when, as
Emperor of all China, he wears a towering
gold head-dress and a satin rigout in im-
perial yellow. The music, specially com-
Sosed by Howard Carr, is haunting and
riental. John Gould, Freda McGhee and
Neville Malley are also strong supports.
There’s something solid and comforting
about the parties of the Royal Empire
Society. You can almost smell the Union
Jack the minute you begin to mount the
steps. Communism would melt in the atmo-
sphere of the lower hall, and the Soviet
itself be converted in the drawing-room.
Hugh Denison’s lady was • hostess at last
week’s crush, and was terribly smart in one
of the new thin black wool materials and
the most exclusive variety of silver fox. The
guests of the afternoon were the Lud Mayor
and Mrs. Walder, she in a frock, coat and
hat of the most melting shade of blue: other
lions were Major and Mrs. J. It. Boose,
a'mbassadors, as it were, from the Royal
Empire Society in London. The music was
exceptionally good. Mrs. Layton Gaubert
had arranged the programme, and Jeanette
Patterson, Bryce Carter and L. Lawton were
the artists.
Brown velvet and sables, on which a
warm posy of nasturtiums was pinned, a
large brown velvet hat and a string of amber
were worn by Mrs. Bertie Kelly when she
opened the Blamire Young show. And cer-
tainly a show with such luxuriant color
needed a more-than-ordinary decorative
person to introduce it. The burning reds
and the blues in “Isabel of Bourbon,” “The
Bos’n’s Dream” and “Moorea” speeded up
the circulation to almost torrid heights; and
it was a relief to turn to the cold stillness
of “Winter.” “Snow” and “Moonlight” were
two others that drew the attention. Beat-
rice Kelly, who came on late from Will
Ashton’s show, wore her favorite Sherwood-
green, and in the middle of the little Gros-
venor Gallery Monty Grover and his bright-
. eyed wife discussed first anatomy and then
osteopathy, with Mrs. W. McMillan listen-
ing in. Harry Dangar was there, looking as
chivalrous as the heroes he always has to play
in amateur theatricals. He has just drawn
a young boy, whose relaxed attitude might
be sheer ennui if one didn’t feel it was just
hopelessness. This is a fine piece of work,
and is in Mr. Dangar’s studio at the end
of the Gallery, and that’s why it comes into
this paragraph.
Quoth Queensland: —
Pilot Scott, the world-flier, speaks beautiful Eng-
lish, as he showed from the steps of the City Hall
before a big crowd on his arrival in Brisbane, and
over the wires in the evening. His face was as
brown as his plus-fours, and he has a hearty school-
boy smile. After the talk at the City Hall he ha l
tea with the vice-Mayor and Mr. R. E. Nixon Smith
in the Mayor’s reception-room.
Salvationist General Higgins and his wife stayed
at Government House while in Brisbane. The General
addressed large congregations in the City Hall, the
Blairs and Archbishop Sharp being among those
present.
At St. Joseph’s, Nanibour, Walter H. Tucker
married Enid J. Wynn-Williams. A. Perren gave
the bride away ; she was in white marocain with a
rose pattern and veil of silk broidered net. Iris
Wynn-Williams and Edith McDowall were ’maids
in pink and lemon respectively. The bride’s home
saw the feasting.
At St. Andrew’s, Warwick, Ivan Inglis and Thelma
E. Wisseman were made one. The bride, who was
given away by her father, was in white mariette
and hand-broidered Chantilly-laee veil. Edna Wisse-
man and Olive Maxwell ’maided in apple green with
white felt hats. The reception was at the Soldiers’
Club.
“Blue Roses” has done well at His Majesty's, and
“Follow Through” is the final offering. Everyone
thinks popular Madge Elliott much improved by-
having put on a little weight.
George Henry Cole married Myra Stafford in St.
Andrew’s, South Brisbane. Alex. Stafford gave
his daughter away; she was in ivory satin and
georgette with a Limerick-lace veil. Alice Green
’maided in apricot organdie and cap of tulle.
The early days of the Royal Queensland Art
Society were reviewed by Jeanette Sheldon before
members of the fraternity. President W. Bustard
and Mrs. Bustard received the guests. The society-
dates from 1887; the first show was held in the
succeeding year.
There was a dance at Lennon’s for the memorial
tablet to be erected to the members of the 49th
battalion who fell in the war. Mrs. F. M. Lorenzo
and the Glasgow lady were amongst the committee.
Colonel and Mrs. Lorenzo received the guests.
Beres Corrie announces her engagement to Charles,
son of C. H. B. Haly, of the Q. N. Bank, and
grandson of the late Charles Haly, of Dalby. Beres
is the charming blue-eyed daughter of Mrs. Frank
Corrie, Bowen-terrace. The wedding will be in
August.
At the Q.T.C. meeting Mrs. Cadell Garrick had a
tea party on the committee-room verandah, wearing
Wedgwood blue; Mrs. Bimbah' Edkins was in navy ;
Mrs. E. M. Ralph was in an autumn ensemble; Mrs.
W. J. Gall in royal blue. On the second day Mrs.
J. T. Bell wore black and brown; Miss Griffith
chose navy and beige; Mrs. Isaac Moore, who gave
a tea on the committee-room verandah, woi’e .black
and white; Mrs. Marcus Hertzberg was in water-lily
green ; Mrs. J. E. Stewart’s navy moire had a beige
and burgundy peacock-eye pattern: Mrs. Victor
Gundry was in beige; Mrs. F. K. Brodribb’s emerald
green was worn with a large white hat; Mrs. G. D.
Logan favored navy and ermine.


You may not
look ill!
but you know yourself
that you are “below par,"
and just in that low con-
dition that makes you a
ready prey to infections;
nervous and out of sorts,
you have lost the joy of
living that comes from
radiant health.
The remedy is simple; add
extra health-giving vita-
mins to your diet by tak-
ing daily a spoonful or
two of
RADIO-HALT
Doctors throughout the world
recommend Radio-Malt.
// your chemist does
not stock Radio-Malt
write to
THE BRITISH DRUG
HOUSES ( Australia )
LTD., 250 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
safd
Vigour and Vitality
renewed by
COLOSEPTIC
It is up to you to say
whether you will be nervous,
weak, sickly, or whether you
shall glow with vitality and
strength. It is now possible to
prolong your vitality and rule
your health just as you govern
your actions. You can throw
off the shackles of advancing
age—step back into youth—be-
come virile, vigorous. You can
rekindle your old energies, put
more vim into your work and
play and make every part of
your body function as Nature
intended.
Modern eating methods
cause weakness and flabbiness
of the abdominal organs. Par-
ticles of decaying food waste
are not completely evacuated.
This waste encrusts and accu-
mulates in the creases of the
intestine, and harbours disease-
breeding germs which enter the
system and pollute the blood.
Result is dreaded self-poisoning
( autoxima ), from which nine
out of ten suffer caused by
hidden and unsuspected con-
stipation. This self-poisoning
is the origin of constipation,
headaches, indigestion, gas in
stomach and bowels, catarrh,
weakness, rheumatism, neuritis,
eczema, pimples, etc., and hosts
of other ailments.
Not one person in ten thous-
and enjoys anything like per-
fect health. Practically every-
one is more or less in the grip
of autoxima. But you can
change all this by washing away
the germ-laden mass with
COLOSEPTIC. It promptly
rids you of self - poisoning.
Gently, without griping, COLO-
SEPTIC loosens and dissolves
off the encrusted waste and
then passes it smoothly out of
the body. It rids the system
of all circulatory impurities
through the other outlets pro-
vided for that purpose—the
kidneys pores of the skin
and respiratory apparatus. Test
the powers of COLOSEP.TIC by
sending 1 /- in stamps or postal
note to COLOSEPTIC CO. LTD.
(Dept. F. 4.), 10 O’Connell
Street, Newtown, N.S.W., for a
Special Demonstration Jar and
the valuable health booklet
“Autoxima.” COLOSEPTIC is
sold in regular fulj-sized jars at
all Chemists and stores.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
Lately from overseas came news of a
craze for jewellery particularly designed for
bridge parties, in which the aces of the various
suits figured in onyx, colored enamels or
precious stones, earrings of crystal with a
unit of some suit inset being popular. A
Melbourne shoe-shop has been displaying
bridge shoes, the vamps of which are bord-
ered in tiny aces in black and red.
At the Alexandra Club Mrs. James E.
Hayne was hostess at a feminine gathering
to which she introduced Pamela Crowther,
who is to marry the Haynes’ eldest son.
Mrs. O’Dell Crowther accompanied her
daughter, who wore a suit of brown cloth
with fawn fur collar and blending velvet
beret. A black gown with touches of blue
and silver fox furs topped by a black text
hat were sported by Mrs. Ilayne, whose
daughter Rosemary was a study m light
amber wool de Chine, set off by a darker
hat. The reception rooms were decked with
magnificent flowers and foliage.
The W. Mortills offered hospitality to
Benno Moiseiwitscli and his wife at Tay
Creggan, Hawthorn. A dinner at which
Prof, and Mrs. Ernest Scott were also
guests was followed by the arrival of many
musical folk for supper. The Melbourne
string quartette made music. The hostess
wore faint pink tulle, and Madame Moisie-
witsch was clad in a gown of Burgundy tint.
Edward Goll, the Henri Penns, the Best
lady and Helene and Thomas Brentnall were
there.
The audience that assembled to hear
Moiseiwitscli play with the Uni. Orchestra at
the Town H’all on Saturday was a very dressy
one. The weather being mild, white bunny
coats were not so numerous as usual, and
small coats and capes were well to the tore.
A girl arrayed in scarlet velvet had a long-
sleeved coatee of white satin dangling across
the back, while another draped a tiny cape
across her left shoulder, leaving her bare
vertebra? exposed to the draughts. Mis.
Moiseiwitscli was wrapped in white fur. Mrs.
Harry Emmerton and Nellie Yeitch weiM? m
the front row stalls, also Mr. and Mi’s. Her-
bert Brookes, Miss Deakin, Mrs. E. Stevens
and Rita Hope. In the balcony were medical-
lmight James Barrett and his wife, T. Brent-
nall Dr. Leon Jona and his two daughters,
Prof, and Mrs. Scott and the Maudsley lady.
The bright-looking maiden pictured here
is Zeris. daughter of the L. H. Martins,
of Geelong.
She is an ex-
student of the
II ermi tage,
Geelong, and
also, more re-
cently, of the
,C hurch of
England Girls’
Grammar
School, Ba 1-
larat. While
there she col-
lected a schol-
arship for com-
mercial art at
the School of
Mine s, but
was unable to
avail herself
of it. She
has theatrical
talent, and has
appeared in
several ama-
teur dramatic performances in Ballarat, and
in her home town. As a member of the
just-formed Repertory Theatre Society of
Geelong she was selected by the producer,
Dulcic Bland, to play the leading r6le of
Eliza in Shaw’s “Pygmalion,” recently pro-
duced.
The new version of the “Youth and
Laughter” revue was presented in aid of the
funds of the Y.A.L. Roy Steyne is pro-
ducer, with Mary Sharp and Madge Hume
Cook as organisers, and Jennie Brenan and
Maggie Berry have trained the bright ballet.
N. Id. Gregory, Field Fisher and Zoe Goff
are among the principal performers. The
settings are attractive. There are a Chinese
temple scene in which some gorgeous cos-
tumes are worn; a Red Indian interlude and
a most effective glimpse of a French cafe,
with black and scarlet draperies, the com-
pany being costumed to match. There are
a Cairo set, and another depicting an
English bathing resort, which gives oppor-
tunities for a display of beach pyjamas,
shorts, gob caps and bathing suits. Through
the maze of dances, sketches, songs and what-
nots runs the story of a man who stole a
Chinese idol’s eye. He is trailed all over
the world by a Chinese supposed to be from
the temple, but who proves in the last scene
to be merely the collector of a laundry bill.
On Flower Day hundreds of collection-
boxes were rattled on behalf of the Lud
Mayor’s, fund. Buttons of varying prices
wore vended. The charities that benefit by
the collection conducted stalls that made
Collins-street and its vicinity seem like a
flower market. Some beautiful flowers and
foliage came from homes at Macedon, the
Governor-General’s garden yielding a gener-
ous quota.
The Tally-ho Riding Club staged a gym-
khana at the old Hunt Club kennels at Oak-
leigh to help the District Nursing Society
and the Melba Free Kindergarten. Lud Mayor
Smith gave the show a kick-off, and there
was a good attendance. A comical dog show
was directed by Moyna Shiels, who had col-
lected various bow-wows of outstanding pecu-
liarity of talent. Mrs. FI. Embling engi-
neered the programme of horse and pony
events, a paper chase being the big feature
of the afternoon.
The Austral Salon listened to the singing
of Mrs. Fred Haig (Phyllis Ashley), Gwyn-
neth Lascelles, of the “Bitter Sweet co.,
tenor Harry Ross and basso Allan Logan.
Leslie Barklam came along with his flute,
and Lucy Ahon recited. Mrs. Flaig is return-
ing to Sydney.
A full choral service united Maisie, daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Bridget, of St. Kilda,
and Dr. Willem B. Stephens, second son
of the Rev. Henry Bondfield Stephens, of
Lake Grace (W.A.). Two ’maids, in frocks
of white lace and tulle, carried posies of
scarlet blossoms. The bride’s gown was
cream brocaded satin and her veil was Brus-
sels lace.
Olga Bruche, just back from England, with
a halt on the way home to visit her sister,
Mrs. Aird Smith, at Punjab, India, has an-
nounced her engagement to Captain R. H.
Le M. Lawrence, of the 22nd Battalion, 4th
Punjab Regiment. Miss Bruche is the
younger daughter of Major-General J. FI.
Bruclie and Mrs. Bruche, of South Yarra.
The engagement of Fay, eldest daughter
of the late Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Notcutt,
of Wangaratta, and Fred Purbrick, solicitor,
also of Wangaratta,' is announced. The late
Mr. Notcutt and Mr. Purbrick were in part-
nership.
The Albert Park Swimming Club fare-
welled Frances Bult, chosen to represent
Australia in the Olympic Games. The presi-
dent, A. E. McConnell, handed to the sea-
maiden a travelling case as a parting memen-
to from her associates, and Miss Burton, of
the Ladies’ Swimming League, came forward
with a travelling clock from that body.
Looking out of this window is Nora W.
Collisson, secretary of the Bureau of Social
and In.te r-
national
Affairs. She
is a daughter
of the Rev. R.
K. and Mrs.
Collisson, of
Adelaide, and
received he r
early educa-
tion in Eng-
land, graduat-
ing later at
Melbourne
Uni., where she
specialised in
history. For
eight years
she was on the
staff of St.
M a r g a ret’s
School, Bris-
bane. Miss
Collisson has a
flair for the
writing and staging of pageant plays, her
most notable achievements in that line being
“The Warrior,” founded on the idea of the
League of Nations, and “To the Day,” which,
performed in war-time in Brisbane, brought
£lOOO into the Red Cross coffers for one
night’s showing.
Good-byes were said at Mrs. Ernest Pool-
man’s home, South Yarra, to Leslie Macpher-
son, who has returned to Paris. The guest of
honor wore a frock of deep blue marocain
and a matching felt hat. Her hostess was
in a gown and hat that contrasted black and
white. The reception rooms were decked
with flowers and autumn foliage.
Mrs. W. M. Robins, who was a passenger
for Europe in the Ormonde, was guest of
honor at a -tea party at Kurneli, South
Yarra, which was attended by representa-
tives of the Queen Victoria Hospital auxili-
aries, of which' she is president. Mrs. Nor-
man Brookes, president of the hospital,
handed Mrs. Robins a platinum watch set
with diamonds.
Margaret King and Maureen Linehan, who
with 22 other legal buds were admitted to
practice in Victoria as barristers and soli-
citors last week, have family associations
with the law. Miss King’s late dad, T.E.,
was a member of the firm of Gavan Duffy
and King, and Miss Linehan is a daughter
of a former police superintendent. John
levers Bourke, one of the 22 others, was
formerly associate to Justice Higgins, and
is a graduate of Stanford (U.S.) University.
The funds of the Renown Ifree Kinder-
garten were added to by a hop at the Rex.
The joint hon. secs, were Peggy King, who
danced in plumbago-blue lace, and Edna
Carr, who chose pastel-green lace. Patricia
Peterson, in pale-blue chiffon, was hon. trea-
surer. Others who helped with the organ-
ising were Mrs. Jim Paxton, Nancy Brett,
Heather Moran and Bea Kimpton.
The Gentlewomen’s Aid Society’s half-
yearly sale, held at the Malvern Town Hall,
was launched by Mrs. Herbert Brookes. A
bridge party run by Sheila Morell and Roma
Smith added to' the takings.
Old Collegians of the Methodist Ladies’
College gathered on Friday night about the
tables of the Wattle tearoom for their annual
dinner, which also celebrated the school’s
jubilee. The president of the O. C. Club,
Mrs. V. G. Anderson, in champagne-shaded
chiffon and lace, and the hon. sec., Edith
Barker, gave greeting to the guests, who in-
cluded the Rev. J. Grove, principal of the
M.L.C., and Mrs. Grove, and the head-
mistress, Mrs. E. Landen.
A dance at Fitzroy Town Hall to aid the
Children’s Hospital was engineered by Amy
Lucini. who danced in white chiffon, her
sister Tinka, who wore hyacinth-blue georg-
ette, Nina Arrowsmith, who was in flowered
chiffon of russet brown, and Yvonne Ternes,
who floated around in pale-blue georgette.
Among the patrons were Mayor Apps and his
wife, she in black, Dr. and J. A. Cahill and
P. Lucini and his wife.
The Japanese training squadron, consist-
ing of the cruisers Iwate and Asama, arrived
on Saturday, and the officers were enter-
tained by James Barrett and his lady at a
garden party at their Toorak home on the
Sabbath.
A bridge party to help St. Martin’s Boys’
Florae was held at the home of Mrs. F W
Thririg, a member of the Malvern auxiliary.
Mrs. Bernard Hall, Theo Syme and Mrs. 11.
Sherlock were the chief organisers.
At the Standard Verse and Music Club’s
gathering Mrs. Boyce Gibson read selections
from the works of Tagore. Violinist Ger-
trude Healy, with Georgie Claridge at the
piano, provided interludes of melody.
Tassie topics :
Esther, only daughter of Mrs. and the late Mr.
J. A. Fenn-Smith, New Norfolk, and Cecil Parsons,
Gretna, were made one by Archdeacon Wliitington
at All Saints’. The bride was given away by her
brother Anthony; she wore a frock of soft heavy
ivory satin, made Princesse style, and a long tulle
veil falling from a tiara-shaped head-dress of pearl
and silver. Sybil Sale, Anita Parsons and Marjorie
Martelli ’maided in frocks of shell-pink georgette
with touches of beige fur. Festivities followed at
Lindfield, Holebrook-place, where the newly-weds
and the bride’s mother received a big crowd of
guests, Mrs. Fenn-Smith wearing deep sapphire
brocade with large blue hat. The young folk are
settling at Norton Mandeville, Macquarie Plains.
Mayor Soundy declared the new shelter-shed in
the Mountain Park officially open on a day when
snow and cold gave a capital demonstration of its
usefulness. All the new tracks converge on the
shelter at one point or another, and the erection is
sufficiently “rustic” to fit in with its forest sur-
roundings.
The Head-of-the-River contest on the Tamar
resulted in a win for Friends’ School, Hobart, with
Clemes second and Hutchins third. Launceston
Grammar had the bad luck to run on a sunken pile
when nearing home.
The Hobart Repertory Society made a success of
Milne’s play “Michael and Mary.” The audience,
expecting comedy from Milne, were a little taken
aback at the almost unrelieved seriousness of the thing,
but appreciated it none the less, and the house
was practically full all three nights. Marjorie Lyne
and Vernon Lee shouldered the main responsibility
of the piece. Of the supporting players special
mention is due to Fred Brough, as the unwelcome
returned husband, and to Mrs. Hinman, as the talk-
ative landlady.
Jean, younger daughter of the Herbert Sansoms,
Sandy Bay, and Neville, second son of the late
Archdeacon and Mrs. Richard Glenorchy, were
married by Bishop Snowden Hay at All Saints . The
bride’s turn-out was an ensemble in sapphire blue
wool crepe, trimmed with grey fur, and small blue
felt hat. Her sister Marie was the only ’maid,
wearing rust-brown marocain, with hat to match.
There were relatives and intimate friends at the
wedding tea.
Adelaide items: —
The officers of the Japanese training squadron
were given a reception at the Town Hall, where
the Mayor extended them a welcome to Adelaide.
The Vice-Admiral responded in excellent English.
The Government placed the military remounts at
the disposal of the visitors for a Sunday ride, and
many explored the hills. His Ex. sent one of his
own horses down to the Outer Harbor for the use
of the Vice-Admiral during the few days he was
here. At the Town Hall the Japanese minia-
ture maple featured in the decorations, and
each of the guests took away a spray. The Mayoress
wore an amethyst ensemble, with a velour hat to
match.
The Japanese Consul (Mr. F. Lancelot Pat -mis)
and Mrs. Parsons entertained the Vice-Admiral and
a number of -his officers at a dinner party at the
Oriental Hotel.
Sailors are always fine hosts ;• consequently invita-
tions for the at-home on board the Asama were
in great demand. Admiral Imamura, with the
Japanese Consul, received on the main deck; after
the guests had been shown over the ship, heavy
mattresses were laid down, and thrilling fencing
bouts' and wrestling provided entertainment. The
Japanese band played popular airs with plenty of
zip. The afternoon brought to light several unusual
Japanese' dishes, 'including thin slices of smoked
red fish and devilled beans. Dainty flags, fans and
other novelties were showered upon the girls.
A bridge party was organised by a committee of
society women to raise funds for the Elder Scholar,
Miriam Hyde. Mesdames Glen Legoe and Edgar
Brown ran a. sweets, stall to assist the funds, and at
supper Miss K. Bennett had a willing committee
to assist with the wealth of dainties contributed.
Mrs. R. Scott-Young handled the bridge tables; the
stage was massed with autumn foliage and dahlias.
A number of Adelaide folk motored to the Mount
Lofty Golf Club for an all-day golf and bright party
in aid of the Stirling District Hospital.
Miss Kathleen Simpson, of Rose Park, leaves
Adelaide this week by the Nieuw Zeeland for Singa-
pore, where her marriage with Mr. E. E. Story will
be celebrated. On Wednesday afternoon Mrs. T. S.
O’Halloran gave her a farewell party, when gorgeous
crimson roses figured in the floral decorations.
Mrs. Jethro Brown and her son Mr. Cyril M. A.
Brown leave by the Narkunda at the end of the
month for England; the latter goes to Oxford.
Perth paragraphs:—
A committee, headed by the Hobbs lady and
organised by the indefatigable Mrs. Arthur Jacoby,
opened the portals of Government House for the
Unemployed Camps Ball. The Capitol Theatre
orchestra made music, and a uniformed Mrs. R. T.
Robinson directed the Girl Guides’ services at
dahlia-strewn supper-tables. In ivory lace and
georgette, Mrs. Temperley presented four debs., who
made their bow to Miss Northmore’s woad-blue
chiffons; Isla Saw bobbed petalled oyster satins;
Dicksie Boyd bent a knee in softest blush pink
charmeuse; Kitty Macartney’s posy was demurely
carried in be-bustled curd-white georgette, and car-
nations matched the wee sprigs on Betty Merry-
weather’s snowy taffetas. Mrs. Jacoby’s black
chiffon velvets were worn with jet and a taffeta
bow; Mrs. Merryweather’s black lace was slender-
ising ; Mrs. Tregonning’s silver beads shimmered on
starboard light chiffon; and Marjorie Calthrop swirled
yards of orchid floral taffeta.
Deep red roses made an arresting splash of color
against Mignonne Renou’s milk-white satins as she
did the aisle trek at St. Mary’s for her vow-making
with Eric Armstrong. The lovely Mechlin-lace veil
was held out aft by sister Yvonne and Nancy Arm-
strong, whose dawn-pink taffeta frocks were ruched
and topped by white-quilled matching felt hats.
Roses and chrysanthemums banked the tables set at
the Karrakatta Club for the after-rejoicings, where
Mrs. Renou’s black laces were flanked by Mrs. Arm-
strong’s similar toned georgettes and beaded coatee.
From a home-study circle of seven the Myola Club
has grown till its members filled the Methodist Hall
for its at-home at Claremont. President Mrs. Camm,
carrying a tuber-rose floral tribute and girt with
sequinned black ninon, welcomed the founder, Mrs.
Flower.
Members of the Women’s Service Guid elected as
their president Mrs. B. M. Rischbeith, who tendered
thanks by inviting , all the members and many
friends to tea at the - Guild headquarters a few
days later. Autumn leaves and tawny chrysanthemums
and dahlias gladdened the eye, as did the lady her-
self in her chic ensemble of deep blue and beige.
After the excitement of the boatrace, which
resulted in a win for Scotch College, Hale School
old boys went a-dancing at the school hall, gaily
decorated in the school’s dark and light blue for
the occasion. Headmaster Dr. Buntine’s lady came
along in much gold lace and beaded cream satin, and
the president’s spouse, Mis. Gordon James, was
draped in Reckitt’s-blue chiffon. Gwennie Male had
silver beads girdling her white mousseline ; brunette
Dorothy Stenberg was clad in crimson georgette;
Betty Seabrook’s English gold gown was of corded
taffeta, and twins Phyl and Joy Malloch had
matching frocks in frilled pastel ninon.


?
When will you learn the Truth?
Those agonising twinges, awful pains in the
back, swollen joints, twitching, aching muscles,
depression, irritability—you must realise that
these are symptoms of dangerous
KIDNEY TROUBLE
-End That Danger
Whilst Yon Can
There are thousands of once healthy, happy men and
women rapidly approaching the brink of breakdown,
nervous exhaustion, a dangerous state of heart-weakness,
just because they neglect the early signs of kidney trouble—
the cause of backache, rheumatism, swollen joints, etc.
Rheumatism, crippling the body, making every effort to
move, work or even think a torture, is telling you of some-
thing wrong within the blood. You might just as well
polish the outside of a motor car with a broken-down engine
in the hope of making it carry on, as to apply preparations to
the outside of the body when the cause of all your pain, your
rheumatism, backache and weakness is in your blood.
Why this remedy must end your trouble
X our bo <jy is one vast and marvellous machine, taking- from the food you eat and
the air you breathe elements to build health and strength from which there must be
certain waste. When this waste contains poisons (such as uric acid in excess),
harmful bacteria, etc., get into the blood and are not passed out by the kidneys—it is
en your health breaks down and all your nerve-destroying body pain begins.
V™* is why the only possible remedy for rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, back-
] ° lnt ur st act directly on the kidneys, and we state-clearly and
hC worlc J- fam °a s Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are guaranteed
tbic famn' ~An 15 OU t j T l 6 who can take the first real action by getting a supply of
this famous 40-year-old, tried and trusted remedy from your chemist. *
the Jf eakest > w omen at all tides, the oldest, can take De Witt's
T he y contain no dangerous heart-exciting drugs, but are a
scientific preparation that will do you good from the very first dose. In twenty-four
hours you see how good they are. 3 twenty tour
i gsggz
mm
wmmmM
Wm
m
wm
i
m
Head just one ©f many thankful letters
Mr G Jensen. Rye Post Office, Victoria, writes —“For many years I have
suffered, excruciating agony through Backache, Lumbago and Sciatica.
The pain became so bad that-for three months I had to have morphia
injections / also underwent treatment in hospital and tried several
remedies, which only gave very little relief. I read of your pills and tried
them, finding definite improvement after only five or six doses. I persevered,
and am rtow.irt good health." •
To those who suffer from kidney trouble in any form we honestly say there is no
remedy to equal De Witt’s Pills. Thousands of one-time
martyrs the world over, in gratitude for freedom, from
pain and suffering- tell us so. That is why with perfect
confidence, we ask you to test this remedy.. Get a
3/6 supply to-day. The larger, more economical
size, costs but 6 16. These pills are never sold
loose Go to your chemist to-day before it
is too late. Let De Witt’s Pills make you
pain-free, healthy and happy.
DeWitt’s
Kidney
and
Bladder
asdf
m
WZ:
UL
The Saurian that Skippered a Ship.
R. W. COULTER REPORTS THE OLD MAN'S STORY OF A VERY
STRANGE ADVENTURE.
YES, I’ve seen a good many strange
things, at sea ; but the strangest I ever
struck was the time Hector the croco-
dile took command of the Cunuamulla. I
was her quartermaster at the time, on the
ruli from Sydney to Singapore, via ports,
and we picked up Hector and his owner at
Townsville 011 the down trip. Old Van
Louten had caught him on the Roper, and
crated him and carted him round to Towns-
ville per lugger. He hummed like a million
dead mullet.; but old Van must have been
used to it like, through sleepin’ alongside
him on. the lugger, for when we dumped him
aboard quick and sudden, old Van lashed
i lie crate to the deck alongside the after
hatch, .where .lie could feed Hector and
pet' him whilst we kept well to windward.
Well,- we-sailed: the same night, and me
and tliq third mate had the first watch, eight
to midnight. ■ 1 whs-steerin’ and the third
was leanin' against the weather rail half
asleep. 1 It .was a beautiful moonlight night,
and the Barrier Reef and the coast was as
plain as you could want it, when along about
ten o’clock we-hears some'of the passengers
below, ‘ on ' the port ‘ side, shoutin’ and
screamin’ to beat the band. ' It wasn’t no
business of ours, of. course, our job bein’ to
keep to the bridge, -’specially in this* tricky
channel, but: the third,, being young, strolls
along to the port ladder'and looks down. He
hops about four foot in the air, and yells
"The croc., the flamin’ croc.! He’s coinin’
up!” and rushes past me to the -starboard
ladder. I thought he’d gone nutty and was
referring to the Old Man, when suddenly I
gets a whiff of Hector, and then I sees his
long toothy grin cornin’ over the top step.
’Course,' I didn’t desert me post like the
third, but I - throws the telegraph over to
“Stop.” and whips the loop of the lanyard
over a spoke of the wheel, before I jumps to
the starboard ladder and skids down. Hector
was a split .second after me; them big
saurians can move, I -toll you. 1 swear me
feet didn't touch the deck till I takes a
ten-foot jump into the after riggin’, and
lands beside the third.
Then we looks round and sees Hector
shufflin' along the prom, deck, sniffin’ at all
the locked doors, whilst the passengers looks
pop-eyed out of the winders. Hector
waddles along like a long streak of d.t.’s
till he comes to the engine-room doOr, which
is open, of course. It. is just dimly lit from
below, but we sees H'ec heave himself-over
the washboard, and his tail hits the top
deck with a smack as he falls down tbe
ladder into the engine-room. I s’posc the
poor brute just couldn’t, resist that human,
liot-oily smell that came up—-saurians like
their tucker pretty ripe.
Then we hears the engineer on watch
yellin’ like a banshee. Me and the mate
.jumps down and runs to the' engine-room
door. Hector is .lyin’ along the gratin’
beside the crankshaft, and the. second engi-
neer is dancin’ like a, dervish, with a spanner.
on the other side. Then we’re almost
knocked head-first down on top of Hector,
with a. couple of hefty belts on the -back.
It’s the skipper, and he’s tearin’, mad.
“Get way on her, you blank -blankety
blanks!” he yells in our ears, “Were
driftin’ ashore, you ——!” He has a rifle!
and as we ducks for the bridge- we ‘ hears
him firin’ down into : the engine-r00m.,-:
We hops on to • the bridge, and the mate
rings for half-speed. I -didn’t' know, then
how the second give it to us, but in. about
half a minute we goes ahead, and after-
wards I hears how it ■ happened. When
the skipper fires he muster either missed
Hector or hit him on the rudder, but anyway
Hec gets a scare and bolts through the
starboard door into the stokehold. The tele-
graph rings then, and the second hops over
the shaft and round the, engine to . the
throttle. • Smart, feller, ■ that engineer; he
knew we had to keep the ship movin’. He
gives us half-speed and then shoots- up the
ladder to the Old Man.
Meantime Hector has the stokehold seein’
things. At first they think they’re finishing up
a . Townsville jag. But not for long. They
soon heaves their shovels and slices; at
I lector and scuttle through the port door,
along the - engine,- over the shaft and up the
ladder, with H’ec, the faithful hound, paddling
after them. But he strikes a snag when he
comes to the shaft. It’s revolutin’ at a
pretty fair bat, and when he tries to climb
over it the friction burns the boiler-plates
‘on his tummy. : By now: he’s all boxed up,
can’t turn round on account of his 25 foot,
can’t get'over the shaft and hasn’t got the
gumption to' go: astern. The Old Man can’t
get a square shot -at him because the-low-
pressure cylinder is in line, so lie’s gust,
about to sneak down to get a decent pot
at.Hec’s earhole when the engine turns the
trick. Hector lets the butt end of his
tail drop on ■ to the connecting-rod just
as it’s cornin’ up, and it tosses him tail
over snout. He’s now.facin’ the stokehold
door, so he shuffles through it, passes ' round
the stokehold and out on to the : starboard
side again.
The skipper is up the ladder quick and
lively, but in the excitement lii-s. shots don’t
have no effect. Hector shins up that
ladder like an A.B. chased by devils. The
engine crew don’t wait, but make for the
riggin’, and the skipper backs towards, the
bridge. Hec lumbers out of the door; and
the skipper pumps a few more shots at him,
but at that low angle the bullets just score
his back. The Old Man scuds-up the ladder
on to the bridge.
I smelt them coinin’, and telegraphs
“Stop,” not knowin’ there’s nobody below.
Then, bein’ a dootiful seaman, I lashes the
wheel and follows the skipper and mate
down the port ladder. The Old Man. isn’t
firin’ now, so he muster -been out "of cart-
ridges, but his languidge' is fit to blister
Hector’s hide. The three of us trots along
the prom, deck; all the passengers is crowdin’
the winders and wavin’ dumb signals, but the
skipper goes on swearin’. It wasn’t no
good him takin’ cover nowhere, while, his
ship is goin’ ahead at half-speed inside the
Barrier Reef with nobody in the engine-
room, so we trots on, the skipper sweatin'
and keel-haulin’ his wits. •. . '
We lacks round the after hatch (she was
flush deck astern) and up the , starboard
prom. The passengers was all crowded on
tliat side- now, waggih’, theirsilly, hands,'
aiid givin’'us advice we couldn’t.hear. They
wasn’t' even game. to open the winders. . I
catches sight of old Van Louten. -leapiu’
about like a monkey on a stick; but, at
that moment we has to hop up the'bridge
ladder,' cross the bridge, and 'down the
other _ side, Hector keepin’ elds*' astern.
Lucky ! the steam drops -and we’re just
driftin’ ;but that‘ain’t-much satisfaction.
The. second timeround .the skipper
makes up ’ his s mind. . “When this blankety
blank passes,”, he yells at fife engine crewifi
the riggin’, “get below and-'get- steam up—
and lock the flamin’ door! . And you,
Richards,” he says to the‘-third, “go up on
the bridge and get way! on her when, you
get steam.. We’ll warn you if he follows.” ,
. The mate hops up. the . bridge- ladder , as
we passes, and the Old Man and me runs
down the other ladder; on • to the half-deck.
Hector muster been tired of climbin’ that
bridge ladder, ’cause' he toilers ,us,, and we
slips across the half-deck and .up on-to the
fo’c’s’le. I never seen ; such a creature for
climbin’ ladders! He comes up after us
like a shot, while we shins down the other
side, across the half-deck and back : on
to the port prom. I sees the skipper is
tryin’ to tire him out. We goes round the
ship twice, and I’m gettin’ giddy. The
engines is workin’ now', and the passengers
is startin’'to grin through the winders and
Hector through his teeth. The - skipper is
swearin’ and I’m sweatin’. ■ -
“Cook!” yells the Old Man,'as we ..passes
the saloon, “get a lump of 1 pork and a big
sharp hook —next time round !”
We trots round again a bit faster and gets
a lead on Hector. The cook opens the door,
shoots a chunk of pork and a big butcher's
hook at us, and slams the door. Hector
smells the meat, and we smells him over-
haulin’ us.
“Here, Quartermaster,” puffs the skipper,
“jump on to the derrick-boom as we pass
and splice this hook to the hoist.”
We had to run like mad now- to keep
ahead. I jumps on to the boom, which is up,
we bein’ on the coast, and Hector scuttles
past after the skipper and the pork. It
takes the skipper two rounds of the ship
before I lashes the hook good and strong.
_ “Get the winch workin’,” he shouts,. run-
nin’ like'a tin hare—“next time round.” I
gets the winch w r armed up. I’m begitinin’
to jerry to his idea and lays the wore rope
with the hook all ship-shape along the deck,
and hops' aloft again. The skipper sprints
up the straight, grabs 1 the hook, digs -it deep
into the pork and jumps behind the winch.
Hector scrambles up, and scoops up the bait
like, a starvin’ steam-shovel. The’ skipper
letS - him swallow about a yard of .wire and
opens the .throttle.- The line tightens, and
Hector’s head comes up, and he thrashes
his twenty-five foot of iron-clad carcase as
he’s hauled straight up in the air.
.“Let-him cool off there for a while,” growls
the skipper, who was getting savage. Old
Van> comes runnin’ up.
“Me poor Ileekitor !• Vat has dey done
mit you?” he blubbers in Dutch, and he puts
his arms round Hector’s lovely tail and gets
a swipe that knocks him across the hatch.
"‘‘You - frowsy old maniac !”-■- yells the skip
per, startin’ up the winch and jerkin’ Hector
up to the, block. “Stand by, Quartermaster,
arid swing the boom overside .before this
madman kills himself !”
I heaves on the line, and Hector, swings
over the rail like a bale of tramlines. The
skipper, lets go, and Hector drops . into, .the
water before old Van gets to Ms feet.
“Ach, rojbber,. t’ief, .murderer!” old. Van
yells, and dances up tortile Old MaiL punch-
in’ the .air. “Ach, I vill safe him, mine tear:
Heckitor !” * And he grabs 'a ’ coil of rope
from the' scuppers and jumps-. overboard.:
The Avimmeu screams and. the'men' sh'otfts,
and me and the skipper runs to the’ rail.
Qld Van, is. siftin’’ astride Hector, who is
bein’ towed alongside, stiff with fright,, with
the half-ihcli wire 'fishin’-line stieklii’. * butter
his gizzard.' Old Van ; is facin’ astern tryin’
to hitch a ;line"round Hector’s tail. The
skipper foams" at the mouth, goes purple,
and jumps’.back to the winch and opens her
tip. It doe's, the trick all ' right. I sees
Hector open his jaws, out comes the yard
of wire and-the hook; and in a second Hector
and'Van 1 is astern. The winch rattles like
mad, the hoolc shoots up to the block, jambs,
snaps off. and the hoist snakes back and
nearly stonkers the skipper.
“Stop her,” he yells. “Stop the ship!”
I dashes up on to the bridge, and throws
over the telegraph, ignoring the third. Then
I hops to the starboard rail and sees old
Van siftin’ in the water on Hector, about
a quarter of a mile away on our sterli
quarter, headin’ for Orstralia. Old Van is
cross-legged, and hittin’ out right and left
with his hank of rope—at the sharks, I
s’pose—and Hector is lashin’ round with
his tail and doin’ a good ten knots. We
ain’t more’n a mile off shore, the channel
runnin’ close in in them parts,, and in about
two-twos I sees Hector shoot. the breakers
like a surf-board and flop on his. tummy on
the sand. He’s badly winded by the looks of
it, ’cause old Van is runnin’ rings round
him with the line, trussin’ him up like. Then
some niggers come down from the bush, and
they all drags Hector up the beach.
The skipper’s on the bridge by this, and
he rings for half-speed, and as I takes the
wheel I hears him say to himself, “He ain’t
got nothin’ on me, lie ain’t! If the old
fool likes to take liis dangerous cargo ashore
himself he can.” 1
I was paid off in Sydney, and because I’d
been through so much the next day they
takes me out for a rest at Dong Bay.
When I comes out I find old Van makin’ pots
of money ’ exhibitin’ Hector in a shop in
George-street, all on account of the free
advertisin’ he’s got, and when I tries to
tap, him for the price of a pint the frowsy
old ' maniac :has the hide to threaten to
sumnions me for aidin’ an' abettiu’ to
murder his croc. That’s gratitude for you!


Posted Right to
New Zealand readers send N.Z. Postal Notes only
with orders.
< C::r
inn
The World’s Gayest Book.
THE FRENCH PICTORIAL NUMBER.
“MUSTARD POT”
Twice the size of “The Mustard Pot Annual” and a hundred
times better. Eighty pages of Pictures witli a Punch, Jolly
Jokes, Jovial Jests, Verse and (short (sna; n Pen and
issue will make even a glass eye sparkle. Punch, Pep and
Pictures and lots and lots of Art Photos ot Eovely (xiris.
Only 1/- at all Bookstalls, or send 1/2 in stamps and a copy
will he sent by return mail in plain cover and secure a
wrapped. Don’t delay, send to-day.
U
The Red Knight of Germany,
yy
By Floyd Gibbons.
The vivid story of each of those fights to the death that often
took Place high up in the blue, a mile from the ea.rth. Strange
contrast to this, from Richthofen’s letters to his mother he
has drawn a picture of the kindly side of the warrior’s nature.
His book is a breathless narrative of daring and heroism
that places its hero on a rank with the knights of chivalry.
It is an epic that starts with a simple combat in the sultry
days of 1918 and ends with the supreme moment when, riddled
with bullets, the German hero fell between flaming lines of
battle near Amiens. Price 6/-. Postage. Id.
NOW OBTAINABLE AT LAST— THE GREAT BOOK OF
SEX KNOWLEDGE FOR MEN AND WOMEN
“SAFE COUNSEL
By Prof. Jeffries, M.D., Ph.D.; Prof. A. L. Nichols, AM.; Dr. Emma F. A. Dr&ke,
M.D., Ph.D.; and Zora S. Davis, Ph.D.
And have it Posted right to your , very door for £1
SlraP An utpardonabie Sin is total ignorance of the most important subject in the life of every man and woman
—SEX.
AWAY WITH FALSE MODESTY!
trs. ” a rS'taowiei? s s
srs they saa set wss **t«%*#»; —* »<> <>■">= **«™ l,l «* »*«* ™ w “**’*
of Sex Knowledge —“SAFE COUNSEL/’
511
asdf
sdf
FOR MEN AND WOMEN— OVER 100 ILLUSTRATIONS
EVERYTHING A
MARRIED WOMAN
SHOULD KNOW
©
How to preserve
youth—Warding off
other women Keep-
ing yourself attractive
—Why husbands tire
of wives—Dreadful
diseases due to ignor-
ance Diseases of
women —Diseases of
children Family
health guide-
Change of life; hygiene— Why children die
young' —Inherited traits and diseases—
What will you tell your growing girl —
Hundreds of valuable remedies.
Secrets for Men
Mistakes of early
marriages Secrets
of fascination —How
to make women love
y o u —Bringing up
healthy children —
Nursing and weaning
—Fevers and con-
tagi o u s diseases
—A ccide n t s and
\Ju. I
emergencies
—Hygiene in the home —How to care * or
invalids—Limitation of offspring—Warn-
ing to young men —Dangerous diseases—
Hygienic precautions Anatomy and
physiology —The reproductive organs—
Education of the family.
GIRLS, DON’T MARRY BEFORE YOU KNOW THIS.
Beauty diets and baths —Do you know:
How to attract desirable men?—-How to
manage men?—How to know if he loves
you ?
: nuw tu “ -
to acquire bodily grace and
beauty?—How to beautify face, hands, hair,
teeth and feet?—How to acquire charm?
How to dress attractively?—lntimate per-
sonal hygiene?—How to pick a husband?
SEND £1 FOR A COPY OF “SAFE COUNSEL” TO-DAY
Use this form, or
if averse to. cutting the paper, m notion The Bulletin when writing.
Enclosed please find £1 (one
pound), for which please* send me
one copy “Safe Counsel’’ by return
mail: _ ,
N.Z. Readers send £1 N.Z. Bank
Note.
Nairn;
Address:
THE MOST SOUGHT AFTER BOOK IN THE WORLD.
“THE BLACK PROPHET
99
21 WONDERFUL CHAPTERS.
1 — St. Andrew’s
2 Coining of the Associate
3 The Vestal of the
Virgin
4 The Confession
5 The Stews of Guilty
Ghost
fi —The Strength of Vows
7 A Secret Meeting
8 — What the Moonlight Saw
sdf
16 — The Turning of
Wheels
17 — -Forgotten Vows
18 — Dove Finds a Way
The Most Remarkable Book Published.
Posted to Any Address for 5/- Postal Note.
Sins of Society.
It is a powerful plea for tearing away the veil
of mystery that has so universally shrouded this
subject of the penalty of sexual immorality.
It is a plea for light on this, hidden danger,
that fathers and mothers, young men and young
women, may know the terrible price that musr
be paid, not only by the generation that violates
.the law, but by the generations to come.
Price 2/6: We pay postage.
Parisian Art Photographs.
Ten Exquisite Photographs of the Most Beauti-
ful Girls in the World. These pictures are
not oi statues, but of the loveliest girls who
have ever posed for the camera in the nude.
They have, never been sold before in Australia,
and are a hundred per cent, better than “The
La France Art Album.” We pay postage.
Price only 5/-
New Art Pictures.
16 exquisite Reproductions of Beautiful Un-
draped Photographs of the World’s Loveliest
Girls and Models. The pictures are 12in. x
10in., and are enclosed in a Handsome Port-
folio, which can be untied so that each picture
can be framed for your private den. Nothing
so beautiful has ever been sold. You get the
whole 16 pictures with calendar for 1932 care-
fully packed in heavy cardboard so that they
will not be damaged in transit. . Price, 5/-.
We pay postage.
Golden Passion.
By Juanita Savage. The most thrilling and
absorbing story of love and passion "ever
penned. Popular edition, - 5/-. Includes postage.
Censored Limericks and Rhymes
The lark of the year. Will make even a glass-
eye spark. Price, 2/-. We pay postage.
Enduring Passion.
By Dr. Marie Stopes. A new contribution to
the solution of sex difficulties, being the con-
tinuation of “Married Love.” Ten amazing
chapters including: A Common Sadness, Rate
Contentment, Excessive “Virility.” Under-sexed
Husbands, The Frigid Wife, Aphrodi.siace V
Rejuvenation? No! Post Coital Happiness,
Frequency, The, ' “Change” in Women, The
“Change” in Men, The Second Honeymoon: The
Human Duity. Enduring Passion also contains
useful prescriptions for married men and
women. Authentic unabridged edition. Not
cheap trashy one. Price, 10/6. Including
postage. ’
The Ginger Jar.
80 pages of Pictures and Comtnercial
Travellers’ Stories. A whirl of legs, lingerie,
and lace. A gay: and giddy hot-dog number.
Price 2/-. We pay postage.
Keeping Fit,
By Bernar McFadden.
KEEPING FIT is a complete introduction to
the study of proper living. It not only gives
full instruction in exercise, eating, breathing,
etc., but also devotes numerous chapters to
commonsense treatment of such troubles as
asthma, constipation, heart, disease, diabetes,
nerves, tuberculosis, and many others. Cloth
bound; illustrated ; 226 pages; exercise chart.
Price, 10/-; postage, 6d. extra.
Practical Birth Control.
Best and Authentic, 2/-
Married Love.
By Dr. Marie Stapes, will save you from life’s
pitfalls and dangers. Tells everything every
man and woman should know before and after
marriage for true happiness. Genuine authentic
edition. Price, 5/-. We pay postage.
“SALOME.”
The story of a fiendish impulse which prompted
the .wicked mind of a courtesan to revenge
herself. Price,. 3/6. We pay postage.
Furniture Making
Contains over 1000 illustrations, and tells how
to make 170 different pieces of furniture.
Every handy carpenter should have this mar-
vellous book. Price, 16/-. Includes postage.
BOOK BARGAINS
“THE BOY FROM BULLARAH”
Sledge-hammer Boxing Yarn, by Arthur
Wright. Price (id. We pay postage.
“SPEAR EYE.” Love and Romance in
the Tropics, by .lack McLaren. Price (id.
We pay postage. “OVERDUE." Spark-
ling Romance of New Guinea, by .1. M.
Walsh. Price (id. We pay postage.
“GINGER MURDOCH,’' by Win. Hatfield
(reviewed in last week’s “World’s
News”). Price (i/6. “THE DESERT
COLUMN.” by lon L. Idriess (reviewed
in last week’s “World’s News”). Price
6/6. “THE BLACK PROPHET,” most
sought after book in the world. Price 5/-.
We pay postage. “SPEECHES FOR
ALL OCCASIONS.” Know what to say
at the right time. This book is the tie-
tongue man’s guide. Price 3/-. “BOOK
OF ETIQUETTE.” Don’t he a fool and
ruin your life. This book tells you what
to do on all occasions. Indispensable
for men and girls climbing life’s social
ladder. Price 5/-. “HOOK OF NATURE.”
Know your body from ear to toe. A
wonderful work,- fully illustrated. By
Hr. Faulkiner. This remarkable hook
gives the secret of better manhood and
strength. Price 7/6 We pay postage.
“LOVE,” by Elinor Giyn
Elinor famous author of “Three Weeks/’ has written an amazing book that
should be read by every man and woman —married or single. “Elinor Glyn on
Love” is not a novel—-it is a penetrating searchlight fearlessly turned on the most
intimate relations of men and women.
LOVE’S VITAL PROBLEMS SOLVED.
In “Love/’ Elinor Glyn courageously
solves the most vital problems of love
and marriage. She places a magnifying-
glass unflinchingly on the relations of
men and women. No detail, no matter
how avoided by others, is spared. She
warns you gravely, she suggests wisely,
she explains fully.
“Eove” is one of the frankest books ever
written. It had to be. A book of this
type, to be of real value, eould not mince
words. Every problem had to be faced
with utter honesty, deep sincerity and
resolute courage. But while Elinor Glyn
calls a spade a spade—while she' deals
with strong emotions and passions in her
frank, fearless manner—she nevertheless
handles her subject so tenderly and
sacredly that the book can safely be read
by any man or woman.
In fact, anyone over eighteen should be
COMPELLED to read “Love”; for, while
ignorance may sometimes he bliss, it is
folly of the most dangerous sort to be
ignorant of the problems of love and
marriage. As one mother wrote us: “I
wish 1 had read this book when I was a
young girl—it would have saved me a
lot of misery and suffering.”
GET “LOVE” TO-DAY.
Send a 3/6 Postal Note to the London
Book Co., Ltd., Box 38, G.P.0., Sydney,
and yon will not only receive a copy of
“Love” by return mail, but a copy also
of Health and Beauty Secrets.
Please mention “The Bulletin” when
ordering.
ALL THE ABOVE
ONLY OBTAINABLE
All orders sent by Return Mail.
LONDON BOOK
REGISTERED OFFICE: 228 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PERMANENT POSTAL ADDRESS:
BOX 38, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Send postal notes or cheques.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
fofeMdia
Ev-ry week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which 1 enclose
NAME
ADDRESS *
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/.
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
O*
<K
if
0
0°
e
\0
2.
s e
\\ e
6
j&jflo 0
# V
~ -' o i£
■','4^>
tf/V’


RANCE
i
>t . /
f
%
X'
■
’’Sur
-<jfth r rntlfn ill uniitiwii^
:•:
■,
asm
?P
■>:>
'.'i:>:
■
B
X
1
HI
ill
■
m
m
■
P
s^c
SS
P>
;ii; i
wb?^;;:;:®:;
!?»Si! : -!.::: , ">:;:;;v::i : M.
v
;:;!iiiJ!;j!;il;;;
*•!:•»
mm
188
!• *ll
BRI
m
•i'l
.'tils
!>!*!!
i,,f
Mn".:)
1
a'ii'l
i<!
©fei
'■fllSs
"‘iiillliilS
1
!';!!!l!! !i I)
HI
iif 1
