

ta^ e
■HHI
e
s
>HREE THREES
ARE NINE
FOR SIXPENCE
JUJJ
C.TI
V
■
/
mm
WMiM
I
■“v.\
l^tmTnnk
mm
S
:*r*
»2
a#t.txna&
3436 C-6.2
Stop, look, listen. You
are about to buy cigar-
ettes. You would like
special cigarettes
special blend,specialtips,
special wrapping. You
can have them ! Three-
Threes are an Ardath
blend —with Ardath cork
and plain tips —with
Ardath treble wrapping
for perpetual freshness.
Sixpence buys nine, so
when you’re in that shop,
state expressly “ State
Express \"
9b, 6 D
is % y~
27 f° r Vg
Alto Flat Fifties, Flat Hundred*
and Round Airtight Fifties.
TIPPED AND
The Bulletin
Qu* CcUsMUXturn. cut *?— % 8
Vol. 53.—N0. 2735.
Wednesday, July 13, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmiss,on by Post as a Newspaper.


THE 1932 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
at HOPCF
This Book FREE to YOU*
' SEND THIS COUPON L_
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence Colleae
100 Russell Street, Melbourne
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booltlet, explaining how to Write tor Profit e
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 232
UJYSAGHT7
o
3
R
Australia
Support Australian Industries*
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaglit’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
\ Perfect TdUIT B ;,
enra
uticura^
MEDICINAL
rW-
•«©*&*
To Keep Your Skin in
Perfect Condition
Cleanse your face regularly wit*,
Cuticura Soap and hot water.
Rinse well. If there are pimples
or rashes gently smear with a
little Cuticura Ointment five
minutes before the bathing.
Cuticura Talcum gives the per-
fect finishing touch to the toilet.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
_ Sample each free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854-
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” fov adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your 'Victorian campaign, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk.
“THE AGE”
■has over 119,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
A, LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
4 us . tn *L ia House, Strand, London,
'V.C.2, \vheie they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney or
490-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
* SOCIAi
- f orc *>^
HOUSEHOLD PACES
SOCIAL NOTES-ALL STATES."*
UADYS LONDON LETTER
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD.
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES ©2
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane Telegraph'* is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”' carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
IF
you desire to reach that section of
the N.Z. public that moulds the buy-
ing habits of the rest;
IF
you have a message for New Zealand-
ers who have more money to spend
on more commodities than the many;
IF
your goal is a market with the maxi-
mum capacity to respond to your
advertising efforts, then cover the
Wellington Province, the highest in
spending power, by using the most
effective medium,
Cite Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
JHEJB^TRIOT
mSfeSJ-MEDiyMIg WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT
Sydney Rep.: H. 0. lIINCHCLIFFE.
2 HUNTER STREET.
vV
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
. EXAMINER is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural,
'-onrunercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
A ™E R’-; * S in ils 91st year of Publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
Fuil information, copies, advertising rates “The Examiner» “Weekly Courier” and
Evening Express” obtainable from
:c Saturday
R. Rolph & Sons
73-75 Paterson
Launceston.
Pty., Ltd.,
Street,
National Bank C
271 Collins Street,
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Modern Humor
There is a shortage of the kind of comic
writers whom England and the U.S.A.
were producing freely before the war. Broad
humor has been declared Victorian in the
best literary circles. The younger genera-
tion has gone cynical, and the brilliant lads
and lasses w’ho might have been funny
under happier auspices are devoting them-
selves to satire. But the demand for books
which will produce guffaws without deep
thinking persists—in fact, it is greater than
ever and many writers are coping with
it to the best of their ability. The inevit-
able trouble is that, being second-raters or
worse, they sound no new note. They
cant invent so much as one character of
unforgettable insanity between them; and
nearly all their works are modelled on the
formula of some member of a tiny band of
established Ia.ugh-getters.
• . ; ' ' 1 ■
W odehousian
H. M. Raleigh in the preface to his
Excess Baggage (Methuen, 7s. 6d.) acknow-
ledges a debt to Robert Louis Stevenson
and Lloyd Osbourne,” but his inspiration
.1® much more modern. The Vicar of Much
VY arlock gets exasperated with his Bishop
ciuiing a discussion of the parish magazine
over the port and cigars, and hits him on
the head with a sherry decanter. How to
conceal the supposed corpse? The Bishop
of Borchester (pronounced Booster) is put
m a trunk which is left in the hall to await
the arrival of Job Masters and taxi.
Murgatroyd, contemplating the
tr J(" k satisfaction, “there are two things to
settle. Money and disguise. I have a little monev
°f the Much Warlock Mothers’ Sew it w
Ouild. As for disguise, a heavy veil will be enough
for me, and you can wear the false beard and blue
spectacles you had for the village theatricals on
ihmpire Day.”
My dear,” protested the Rev. Septimus Mur-
gatroyd faintly, “I don’t like all this deception. It
makes me feel as if I were a criminal.”
The Duchess of Dillwater gets the trunk
containing the Bishop, who, of course, isn’t
dead, and they get hers. Their daughter
Angela, who is being educated at Miss
Toop’s Select Seminary for the Daughters
of Gentlemen, talks like this:—
“ The Toop is looking as bucked as anything.
She s probably found out about that feed in the
dormitory, on Saturday night. That means we shall
be kept in all Wednesday afternoon and the Toop
won t have to umpire in the cricket match against
West Deeping High School. She hates umpiring •
she always gets her corns trodden on by the bowlers.”
She has a fatuous admirer, with no income
but what he makes by selling sausage-skins,
and no expectations except a ticket in the
Irish Sweep, who proposes.
dive floundered hopelessly. “The fact is I—well,
o!d girl, I know I’ve got a face like the back of a
cab, but could you—do you think you—I mean
to say—oh, blast!”
They all meet at Lord Grebe’s place,
Slyme Court, and, after a series of mis-
understandings which are complicated by
the intrusion of a Scotland Yard detective
who talks stage American, the voung people
get married.
The Comic Seafarer
Most of Guy Gilpatric’s characters are
old fnends, too. Take Captain Bal], of
Half-Seas Over (The Bodley Head, 7s. 6d.):
He .is elderly, florid and paunched in a manner
becoming his dignity; his liver is good, his ten.pw
little ’ 4 nd S T ewl ! ero in Surrey he owns a snug
aid °> some d:, y> he "ill retire
intends to bequeath to the nation.
W1 i il L th^, S:S - Inc hcliffe Castle is in port,
and Mr. Glencannon, the Chief Engineer, is
reading the “Presbyterian Churchman,” and
tile first officer, Mr. Montgomery, is “deep
temperance feuilleton called ‘Beelze-
bub s Broth,’ which was enlivened by a
picture of a snake crawling out of a gin
bottle and into the eye of a skull,” the
captain lights on a letter in his paper in
which the writer claims to have seen Tene-
nffe Peak at a distance of 150 miles.
H e stood glowering at. the startled company, his
beavin^ lenC M ed ’ J 118 , face pur P le an(i his paunch
' M °" t S onier y was the first to find his
voice. Why, wOt’s wrong, sir?”
“What’s wrong?” thundered Captain Ball, seizing
H agm ® rits t , of the Paper and crushing them
against each other as though striving by sheer force
1°, join them together again. “What’s wrong? Why.
ctV ti )0 q < ; S ’ , Hritw Mate, the fellow’s name is
Sk;nkly-—Skinkiy, I tell you! Yes, P. Skinkly!”
Weel, sir,” said Mr. (rleneannon consolingly.
I once knew a mon named Frogfinger, if that’s any
help to you.” J
The captain writes to the editor: “Sir
In re the man Skinkly’s boast that he
sighted Teneriffe Peak at 150 miles distance,
the man Skinkly lies in his black throat.’’
A controversy begins which transforms the
captain into a “roaring ogre.” His step
loses its spring; his footfalls as he paces
his bridge grovs
slow and sullen.”
“ ’E’ll fret ’imself
into ’is gryve, you
mark my words,”
Mr. Montgomery
prophesies to Mr.
Olencannon. So Mr. Glencannon adjusts
the matter by one of those subtle moves
which slapstick sailormen always make in
an emergency. W. W. Jacobs is chiefly to
blame for these kindly, moronish old salts;
but whereas he j oked in undertones, so to
speak, his imitators use loud-speakers.
Whimsy
Almost anybody can do it, A. A. Milne
ls L Perhaps the most conspicuous living
offender, but there are literally thousands
ot others. Much of the dialogue of H. C
Badeys Case for Mr. Fortune (Ward
Lock, 7s. 6d.), is on these lines:—
mured hy "* ■ We goi,lg to Logat e, Joan?” he mur-
“T° see a Greek play, dear.”
is Lojatef Joan?” ! ” Reggie gaZed at her ’ ‘ ,Wllat
“My dear child! Logate School. The girls’
school. \ ou know all about it.” °
“Do I ?” Reggie said plaintively. “Fancy knowin’
all about a girls’ school! Well, well Why did
you marry that kind of man?” y
Reggie is really an exceptionally astute
detective. He investigates eight cases in
this book, and emerges triumphantly from
all; and very interesting cases most of
, j ei ? f'Cf-. his schoolboy affectations—
ms nabit in desperate emergencies of talk-
ing sweetly 1 ' or “gently,” when not “mur-
and his futile lingo, in which all
the gs are dropped with painstaking care
—maLe him a most irritating character. He
lias the manner of comedy without the
matter. He battles as hard for his laughs
as Sam Weller himself, but never savs
anything funny.
A Columnist
m^\ L ? we r ,7*01 e a classic in its way
n Here s Luck. It contained real people
—Sydneyites who may be met in any pub
during drinking hours—and the stow of a
suburbanite s ruined home life was told with
astonishing zest. Here’s Another (Frank
l,J Johnso , r \. Sydney), will disappoint
admirers of his first book. It is made up
of day-by-day contributions to the “Labor
ai y and Telegraph” in the manner of
Expres?’°- C ° lumnist of London “Daily
“ * **.'■£?**
was , ye - terday ' ve were sent for a pound of
steak, and given Is. 8 d„ and we had to get id*
Pe TL° V hnlr.h f b S™, T s t ead —the chanie was our«'
Th [ ' v +hi l e ’i S had their just for the change
That s the only reason we ever volunteer ro go to
the butcher’s. Just for the change. S to
He can reel off such stuff by the yard. It
is good for a passing grin in a daily, but
haidly worth putting between covers The
only character he exploits is himself,‘which
is a pity. He could probably create an
Australian Mr, Thake if he tried.
RED PAGE.
Shaw’s Joan
The Sundry Showman (B. 22/6/’32) com-
pares Bernard. Shaw’s Joan of Arc to Flor-
ence Nightingale. This is apt. But Shaw
further 11 ™ socia l ]stl «. Waning* to carry him
H f makes h» Joan a sort of femi-
nine Christ. She is directed by voices from
Heaven and talks commonsense. Shaw
makes the important people she talks it to
appear silly, as the Showman says, but when
she talks it to the soldiers they listen and
aie impressed. In reality are soldiers
more likely to listen to and be S
pressed by commonsense than are any
other people given to moving in crowds?
When Christ talked commonsense to Pilate
rttoK att6 I , seem ? to hav e listened atten-
Z and beeU lm P ressec j, but when Christ
talked commonsense to the multitude they
mpni d ov l H '?V Cro^ ds , want entertain-
ment, exhortation, rhetoric, but they don’t
want commonsense. To make a' crowd
move it has always to be inflamed
to an enthusiasm that is always, however
fnd.w'™ lfc b v based on righteous
indignation And righteous indignation is
not worked up by talking commonsense.
Commonsense people gain disciples and
make friends, but they do not lead mobs or
multitudes or armies to violent action. Com-
monsense shows the other man’s point of
Mew. Shaw s Joan has a good word to
say even for the English “Goddams.” And
Christ had good words to sav '£ , His
enemies. He had disciples and friend,* and
what the example of His death meant to the
world cannot be computed. But He did not
lead either mobs or multitudes or armies to
violent action. To de that He would have
them ° ta k ° fcber tban cor nmonsense to
w n( l aS lf: . wa T s in Christ’s time so it must
have been m Joan s. And so it is in ours.
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—PIain Facts, Open Dealing.
“THE SENIOR STORE
Anthony Horderns
HALF YEARLY GENUINE
Reap the advantage of the savings we are offering you.
Recollect that the schemes on foot to provide for the workless are
-though admirable in their way—but palliatives in the present
crisis. You can do more—each one of you—to put men and
women back into employment by buying up present stocks. Their
depletion means replacement, and replacement ensures employment
to thousands who are now looking to you—the great general public
—for help and assistance in their hour of need.
An ounce of example in the present crisis is worth a ton of precept
in the distant future.
ďf
MEN! NOW IS THE TIME TO BUY. SEE THESE SAVINGS!
Benefit Now! Replenish uour
PYJAMAS and UNDERWEAR
at Bargainised Prices
8 6 Warm Flannelette Pyjamas to clear,
Men’s warm and cosy Flannelette Pyjama Suits. Winter weight.
Excellent wearing quality. Men who buy these will not regret
their purchase. Sizes, 34 to 44 inches. Price 8/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 6/6
6/6
10/6 Double Warp Flannelette Pjy;
amas,
Men’s medium weight double-warp Flannelette Pyjama Suits.
These suits will show seasons of service. Buy at a saving of
2/- per pair. Sizes obtainable for small men and outsizes only.
Price 10/0
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 8/0
8/6
76 Natural Woollen Underwear, now for
Men’s Natural Wool Underwear. Light weight; undershirts with
half sleeves, underpants to ankles. Secure your future needs
at this.unique saving. These garments are recommended for
both wear and comfort. Sizes. 84 to 44 inch chest or waist.
Price ....... 7/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 5/C
5/6
9/6 Winter Weight All-Wool Underwear
Men’s Natural All-wool Underwear. Medium winter weight.
Best finish undershirts or underpants. Buy now! You will
save 3/- per garment and secure the utmost warmth and
comfort on. the coldest day. Sizes. 34 to 44 inch chest or waist.
Price 9/li
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price G/ti
6/6
(Underwear —Ground Floor, George Street. We Pay Carnage.)
HALF HOSE are Clearing
2/6 Knitted Half Hose at 1/11
Men's Knitted All-wool Half Hose. Winter weight. Heather.
Siz'es, 10 to Ul* inches. Price -2/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 1/11
2/6 Black Cashmere \ Hose, 1/n
Mens All-wool Black Cashmere Half Hose. Medium weight.
Seamless. Sizes, 10 to lli inches. Price 2/0
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 1/11
2/1 1 Fancy Cashmere j Hose, 1/11
Men’s All-wool Fancy Cashmere Half Hose. Barge assortment
colors and designs. Price 2/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price. 1/11
Superior quality. Latest stripe and check designs. Price, 3/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 2/0
{Mercery—-Ground Floorj George Street. We Fan Carriage.)
WM
' *4- SS
m
B
1 I
's
i
m
m
m
Look Your Best in
A NEW HAT
d
ď
Newest Styles at
BEDROCK PRICES
I 7/6 Fur Felt Hats,
now
Men’s Fur Felt Hats! Plain
edge brims. In shades of.
Light Grey, Steel, Slate,
Medium or Dark Fawn.
Price, each 17/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price 13/G
13/6
22/6 Snap Brim Style, at
Men’s Fur Felt Hats, in the
popular snap brim. Good
quality trimmings. In Fawn.
Brown. Light Grey. Steel
and Slate. Silk-lined.
Price 22, tl
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price 17/C
17/6
30- Super Fur Felt, at
Super ; quality Fur Felt
Hats. Snap brim. . Beat
quality trimming's. Satin
linings. Shades are Steel,
Slate, Light Grey, Fawn
and Brown. Price .. 30/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale
Price 113/(5
23/6
(Men's Hals—Ground Floor, Georye Street,
We Pay Carriage.)
These Drastic Savings on MEN’S SHOES definitely aid Practical Economy
f
19 ii
Tree Brandi
“Tree” Brand Shoes. Fifteen styles
to-choose from, in Rex Calf, Tan
Calf, Glace' lvid, Patent Leather.
Genuine rolled welted soles. Full
and half sizes. .Narrow, medium
or wide fittings also stocked in
Box Calf, boots. Price, pair, 22/(5
Anthony Horderns’ Sale .. 10/11
/
I6ii
“Hordura” Brand
Men’s “Hordura” Brand Shoes. In
Tan Calf, Box Calf and Havana
Brown. Made on a well-fitting
last. These Shoes are fitted with
arch supports, spring .'cushion
heels, ensuring every comfort to
the wearer. Rolled welted soles
and heels, full and half sizes.
Price, pair 22/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale .. 16/11
d
(Men’s Shoes Ground Floor, George Street. We Pay Carriage.)
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


FLASH-BACKS of all YOU’VE ever SEEN
PRE -VIEWS of wonders UNIMAGINED!
There is a bit of every land lurking
somewhere in America, yet she is
ever new, ever undiscovered. There
are New World cities with Old World
names ... Calais, Amsterdam, San Juan,
and Moscow! Names which have sprung
to reality from old Indian legends . . .
Ogunquit, Teton, Walla Walla! And each
the symbol of superb achievement!
Great mountains, of austere beauty; great
lakes, strung together in a mammoth in-
land chain; great prairies of waving sun-
shot wheat; great cities, capitals of com-
merce, art, and pleasure!
Great railways, dwarfing distances, pro-
ax.
m
'rXXX.
a
a
m
ism
m
The world's most
distinguished sci-
entist, Prof. Ein-
stein, welcomed to
Southern California
by Charlie Chaplin,
famous screen co-
median.
The serrated out-
line of Bryce Can-
yon’s rim . . . seen
from the new trail.
This picturesque
spot is in Utah.
df
The design of Cal-
ifornia’s Missions
has become an ar-
chitectural type.
Here is the Mission
Dolores at San
Francisco.
vide unequalled service and perfect
comfort while en route. Frequent, rapid
trains, and surprisingly low costs, bring
all America within your reach. Sleeping,
dining and valet facilities make of travel
—luxurious modern living in motion!
The Matson fleet, headed by the new and
mighty “Mariposa” and “Monterey,”
cleave the South Seas over the shortest
route to England! With stops at New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa and Hawaii, you arrive
at San Francisco with a choice of routes
from there across America. Every detail
of your trip may be arranged before you
leave. May we send you our illustrated
booklet and the absorbing particulars?
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL and
INFORMATION RUREAU
12 Bridge St. Sydney Tel. B 7981-3
r*
'jg
BSE
I
m
m
R6-2A
FARM ACCOUNTS
The articles published on The Bulletin’s Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about
book-keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are
kept. Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible
language.
The object :s to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis
and keep it there. In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every
branch of the business and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
The Bulletin, at the request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be dealt
with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means
of everybody. It will be sent from any Bulletin Office for sixpence, to
which must be added 2d. for postage.
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just
as valuable to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy
idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE


KEEP YOUNC WITH
I^^^^Veno
.
D
Keeping young is chiefly a matter
of keeping healthy. If poisons
are stagnating in your blood, the
skin becomes muddy, lines form
about the mouth, and the face becomes
haggard. Constipation -often unsuspected
will add years to your appearance.
To keep young, take a dash of Eno’s
“Fruit Salt” in a glass of water every morn-
ing* This mild, pleasant, alkaline correc-
tive, sweetens the stomach, rouses the
appetite, and keeps your inner system
clean and free from trouble-making waste.
Buy a bottle of Eno today.
words €>no and rf< £fniit Salt” are registered trade mdrks.
Sales exigents: c sbe tH.ri.ish {Harold {Ritchie & Go. t£td. Sydney.
Au. 6
ď
Vvben Mr, Lang makes an appeal to a
Domain audience to follow him he does
not talk commonsensc to it. Rather he
tries to both blind and deafen it to com-
rnonsense. He does not point out that
the average bondholder is just an ordinary
sort of individual who is quite justified in
wanting to have the interest money paid
on his bonds. Mr. Lang waves his arms and
thunders and pleads and all the time points
to the dreadful inhumanity and callousness
of this “bloodsucker” who wants his interest
paid. He inflames his audience to indig-
nation. It is then ready to follow where
he would lead. But attempt to move it by
talking commonsense at it he does not.
He knows it too well.
Nor did Lenin use logic or reason or
talk commonsense when he Avantecl to rouse
the neople. He drew a picture of what the
czars had done. And Do Valera dwells
fanatically on what the English have
done doAvn the centuries. He does not use
any such sweet reasonableness as Joan uses.
Probably he would not have the following
he has if he did. And Lenin is in a fair
way to being canonised in Russia now.
A more logical Joan than Shaw’s would
be a woman of strong and resolute character
roused to immense passionate bitterness by
the atrocities committed against her people
and her country by the invading English.
Such deepfelt bitterness can be imparted to
others and made a motive-force to move
people to violent action far more easily than
can commonsense. Indeed it is doubtful
if violent action is ever the outcome of
commonsense. Such a Avoman as the above
would be far less reasonable than Shaw’s
Joan, and probably far less entertaining as
a stage character, but she would be more
a real woman. And as for reason! “In the
market-place,” wrote a far profounder
thinker than Bernard Shaw, “one convinces
by gesture, but the populace is ever dis-
trustful of reason.”
ALAN D. MICKLE.
The Public-school System
I am disposed to agree with L. B.
Pekins’s views on English public schools,
as expressed in his book which The Bulle-
tin recently revieAved. I spent five years
at one. I emerged with a mass of classi-
cal knowledge; but I wasn’t quite sure
which came first, the Greeks or the Romans.
I was painfully short of information on
most other subjects, I had no idea, for
example, where Australia was, and I kneAV
nothing of it except that it Avas a horsey,
hard-drinking sort of land where they
played cricket all the year round, and so
had an unfair advantage oyer ourselves.
When I left school, at 17, I was a com-
plete, though quite unconscious, snob; a
compendium of information on the subject
of certain sports (chiefly racing, cricket
and Rugby football), and the right clothes
to wear on all occasions; and I would have
starved if I had had to turn round and
support myself. But there Avas no need to
think of anything of the sort. The Avar
Avas on, and after a period of intensive
study I passed into Sandhurst. I had left
school without the faintest inclination
towards “militarism.” We had a Cadet
Corps, of course, but I never joined it.
I only went to Sandhurst because every
youth I knew was going to some institu-
tion of the sort at the time. At Sand-
hurst I found some hundreds of English
public-schoolboys, all patterned in exactly
the same mould as myself and each reacting
in the same way to every circumstance, There
was not a shred of “military glory” connected
with the place. It was like being back at
school, only that the very slight personal
relationship which had existed at school as
between masters and boys Avas, at Sand-
hurst, as between officers and cadets,
entirely lost. The only “glory” we per-
ceived was in the title of Gentleman Cadet.
(Cadets for temporary commissions in the
outer world were merely cadets.)
One happening at Sandhurst stands out in
my mind now as somehow typical of it
and its inmates. Walking out one day, I
encountered the adjutant near the main
gate standing somewhat helplessly by his
bicycle (in those days, in the practice of
economy, the staff at the R.M.C. mostly
moved about, locally, on bicycles). I
saluted him from an awful distance. He
called me over and, pointing to the
machine with his silver-knobbed cane, said
peevishly. “Do you understand these in-
fernal things?” Now, the adjutant was a
major in the Scots Guards, and he repre-
sented to my mind the last word in personal
efficiency. I remember still the sheen on his
field boots, and for years I used to awaken
from a nightmare in which I heard his
voice booming out: “Sergeant-major, No. 2
in the rear rank of A company is mo\*ing
his eyelids. Take that gentleman’s name!”
Ihe long and the short of it was that
the chain had come off its attachments on
the adjutant’s bicycle. Consequently he
couldn’t pedal it. And he couldn’t put it
on. And I couldn’t put it on—though I
know now that any child of eight could
have done it!
I found the same public-school children
later in a cavalry mess. The colonel was
known to the men by the name of “Lucy”
-—because lie Avas always thinking out ncAv
adornments with Avhich to embellish our
drab khaki uniforms. In the mess we talked
oi leave, clothes, women and horses. I don’t
think anyone there had read a whole book
except an old bird (the second in command)
Avho knew quite a lot about architecture.
We thought he was slightly mad.
After I left the army, and before going
out to the Indian Civil Service, I was
called before an Appearance Board (its job,
was to see if one was the right type), of'
Civil Service Commissioners in Burlington-
gardens. There, in a large gloomy room,
sat. half a dozen old public-school children
who had served their days in India. I
entered, and stood unabashed before their
gaze. One said, “I want to ask you a
question. What would you do supposing you
saw a child in the street with its clothing
on fire?” And I said, “I’d send for the
fire brigade” They all laughed, and I
went out to India marked as “An excel-
lent type” I was then 23.
No, I don’t think the English public-
school system can be reformed. After all.
it is designed only to produce/ children who.
in later life, generally grow up and find
their level at that station AVhich God
Almighty appointed for them. And that
arrangement suits the British temperament.
P. S.
A Satchel of Books
Everyman'x Encyclopaedia (Dent; ss. 6d.
net per vol.) is what the title implies—-a
true encyclopaedia and a cheap one. The
latest issues to hand, vols. 7. S, 9 and 10.
are, like the earlier volumes, well illustrated
and finely printed. Of small encyclopaedias it
is in the first class, and though, of course,
its detail is not so complete as the Britan-
nica’s, many may prefer it on the ground
that the bulkier £45 worth, now that it is
produced _in the U.S.A., is becoming as
Americanised in tone as a Hollywood war-
picture.
Death of John Tait, by A. Fielding
(Collins; 7s. 6d.), is one of those thrillers
in which practically everybody comes under
the reader’s suspicion unless he is an old
hand; in that case he selects the most
innocent-seeming character as the guilty
party, reads on and has the pleasure on the
last page or so of finding he was right. This
is not, the prolific Mr. Fielding at his best.
The horror grows strained at times, as when
the fantastic Mr. Strange is discovered mak-
ing faces at himself in his looking-glass, but
it is an ingenious yarn in which the excite-
ment doesn’t let up till the last page.
.John Rhode’s Dead Men at the Folly
(Collins; 7s. 6d.) is almost everything ait
English thriller should be. The deaths occur
in the West County, which he knows so
Ayell ; the characters, with the possible excep-
tion of Inspector Hanslet’s miraculously
-sagacious old friend Dr. Priestley, are cred-
ible, and so is the plot. The basis of the
whole mystery, the question which had to be
answered before any light could be thrown
on the, deaths of Captain Chaplin and his
double, Avas : Hoav did it, come about that a
certain Arnold Six saloon was able to vanish
into space every time the police got near it?
It seems simple when demonstrated by the
doctor for the benefit of the admiring ’tees,
hut, it should keep the average reader guess-
ing as hard as they did.
Ten Yearn of Tyranny in Italy, by Pietro
Nenni (Allen and Unwin; 7s. 6d.), is a type
of work that this critic begins to find weary-
ing. It describes all over again the occupa-
tion of the factories, the general strike of
1922, the march on Rome, and the Fascist
outrages which followed. The world is
shocked by such happenings when they are
happening, and for some time afterwards, as
in the case of wars, pogroms, revolutions and
a few private crimes—the Lindbergh murder,
for example. Then it begins to get bored and
indignation gradually yields to forgetfulness.
Mussolini has long reached that stage ; time
lias respectabilised him.* The most interest-
ing part of this book is the end. in which the
imminent downfall of Fascism is predicted.
It may become interesting again when it has
to fight, for its life once more : at present it
is merely dull.
And a Little Verse
TO A DEAD TREE.
Magic of night, and unafraid sweet youth.
And love with hungry lips encompassed us
A summer night with soft caressing hands,
Drugged with the silver poppies of the moon.
Why do you stand so gaunt and ominous
Amidst that pool of dimly-moving flowers'
That mirrors our desire ? Is it, to .say
What I had half-forgot, that youth is flying
And death the only certain end of life
Even amongst* the flowers?
QUEENSLAND.
PETER MAGGREGUK.
RONDEAUX OF INCREDIBLE POETS.
How strange it seems! Men’s voices ring
In song of Passion’s urge and sting,
Inflamed, pursued and gratified :
Then, care-free souls, away they ride
And tales of conquest homeward bring.
Yet women, as they tightly cling
To virginal emotions, sing
The threnody of Love Denied.
How strange it seems!
For when Love’s darts are on the wing
Two souls acknowledge queen and king.
And one suspects both sides have lied.
The men who Passion’s triumphs sing
And women who voice Love Denied.
How strange it seems !
How strange it seems! One tries to bind
Them down to logic—any kind.
Woman has passions, too; that’s flat'
And man emotions, tit for tat,
However cabined, cribbed, confined •
And, howsoe’er their paths may wind,
To soon converge they are inclined
When fire of youth may burn the fat
How strange it seems!
Old human nature none can blind •
Cold truth and logic lag behind
The nimble mental acrobat.
Dor might-have-beens she’s always pined
And lie must air his boasts like that
How strange it seems !
8-A.
BILL O'C.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted:
'' and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Brit. S. (Noumea): Much obliged....
A.C.P.: The suggestion would be read with joy
from a hundred soap-boxes... .T.P.0.: Invalid and
old-age pensions: Australia (as reduced), £1 Bs. 2d.
per head of population; M.L., £1 Os. 2d.; Canada,
2s. 9d. AVar pensions: Australia, 19s. 9d.; Canada,
17s. 3d.; M.L., 16s. 3d Bilpin: Dawdles too
much on the way... .E.V.8.: Not quite, but your
most creditable attempt to date... .S.H.: First
stanza is the best; but the thing doesn’t appeal.
....K.M.: “Slowly the sun set.” Swiftly the
basket receives verses and stories that begin like
that... .K.K.: Nothing in your “Echo” ... .A.C.:
Lines to the ant and the violet move heavily....
J. 8.: A'ou thunder overmuch.... Bellerive: A kindly
thought that prompted your wreath for J. F.
Archibald’s grave:—
Finn and competent for
The literary strain
His position as chief he
Did successfully retain.
Though direct as a critic
And harsh at times
In passing judgment
On aspirants’ rhymes,
Young writers of promise
AYho faced the brunt
During his period
Did reach the front.
Varied sheets of verse
And details in prose
Passed through his hands till
His editorship’s close.
. ...J.L.: Never a new thought in it. ...G.E.: Un-
mitigated doggerel P.G.: Sorry, but we can’t say
anything encouraging.... Log Cabin : Wants breaking
up... .G.A.M.C.: Limping sobstuff... .P.J.1.: Too
much of a strain on the imagination.... G.L.F.:
Tuneful, but lacks quality... .0.11.: They sound like
bad imitations of Pope interspersed with unmetrical
banalities. .. .N.P.P.A.: Foot-faulted.. . .E.M.P.; “The
parson’s burly bosom with unction heaved” sounds
irreligious. .. .1.F.: Tripe. . . .R. 1.: Anaemic verses.
... . J.H.: Yes, it’s harmless enough; to strike it
would be like hitting a cripple.... John H.: You
take a long time to say very little, and it takes
longer to puzzle out' some of the obscurities....
C. : Has feeling, but story interest is thin....
D. : Threadbare plot varied a bit... .R.A.8.:
Finishes in the air. .. .D.S.H.: A lot more fun
might have been extracted from the situation....
R.H.T.: Rambling and uneventful.. . .AV.E.M.: Could
be said in half the space... .H.J.R. : You described
the boarding-house so well that we alifiost smelt
the cabbage boiling. The messy murder spoilt the
yarn.... S.C.: You have a breezy style, but little
to say. ...Z.8.: Thin and conventional... .F.CJ. A.:
Your reflections aboard the “wheat train bound for
Perth” are unsaleable. .. .If.K.L.: Too many sob-
sisters about. .. .C.A.S.: Heavy going... .W.A.: But
what was his motive?... .J.B. W.: Labored ■humor...
H.D.: “The Lemon” is the only one of the group
-that sounds, real. Avoid the album type of verse
and don’t send so much next, time.... A.S.: Too
bookish and precious. .. .C. 8.: Maoriland’s ■ bush-
flowers deserve a better poet than otic who rhymes
“Rata” with “barter” L.R.: ,r. J. Hardie’s
“C'attle Camp,” which appeared in The Bulletin
as a serial, will be published in book form late
in August or early in September... .M.F.: Value
depends on coin’s condition and differences in the
symbols that make it rare or otherwise. An ordinary
piece in medium condition is worth £2 ; rare types
in mint condition go to £l2 A.M.K.: Not far
off M.M.: Some talent, but immature.... F.S.:
You can’t make us believe three words make, three
lines of poetry, even if written doorstep wise....
A. : Lyons made no such promise. It is not
in his power to “abolish State Arbitration Courts,”
anyway.... Migrant 8.: You shouldn’t need to be
told that the reference was ironical... .J.F.: Might
find a market elsewhere A.R.8.: Wordy, and you
don’t make the most of the situation M.H.:
Much too long A.C.: If you want to know how
a railway yarn should be written, read some of the
late C. A. Jefferies’s stories L.G.: Heavy reading.
• •••BY.: Juvenile G.AV.R.S.: All talk and no
incident Skookum: That yarn of yours about the
railway traveller and the cigar ash was a mouldy
chestnut in London 50 years ago.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
AVAL: The week’s worst pun F.H.: You need
more than the will to succeed V. 8.; That per-
manent-wave gag has been permanently disqualified.
. ...D.M.: Mediocre.... K.M.: Poor imitation of
Norman Lindsay AY..LM.: Stamp for return used.
....AV.K.S.: Scratchy and humorless... .1.D.:
Flappers are nothing like that E. 8.: An ancient
jest J.E.: Promising, but you can’t do without
a teacher... .L.S.: A skinny man in a nightshirt is
not necessarily humorous S. J.: It has good points
but the bad ones outnumber them C.8.H.: Office
morgue is crammed with pictures depicting Lyons
as a lion T.F.: Oswald Pryor got in ahead of
you. .. .AV'.A.B.: Those ladies might have stepped
out. of a dressmaker’s catalogue.... E.N.: Clumsy
work, and you needn’t have disinterred that rolling-
pin joke. .. .D.M.: You say you’re an artist. No
evidence of it in the stuff sent... .H.M.J.S.: Needs
almost complete redrawing and a new joke.., .
B. : Feeble.. . . K.P.: Cost us 4d. to look at your
smudgy misfits V.AI.C.: A bushman who can’t
draw a leg of mutton had better leave art to the
artists'.. . .R.G.: Yes, some improvement, but not
nearly enough K.M.Af.: Took object at first for
a headless zebra, but decided it might be a fat
woman in a striped bathing suit. You ought to
make these- things clear... .G.AY.F.: Caricatures are
not made by tracing photos 1.P.: AVorkmanship
p00r... .R.L.S.: Been offered that jest 947 times
already.. . .S.R. : Your '.friend basely deceived you.
. . ..C.8.: Good for a schoolboy. .. .E.S.: Rejected
without hesitation... .A.G.: Same joke told in three
different ways and attached to three unsuitable
sketches. ~ .K.M.P. : Do you draw with your eves
shut ?


f
d
■ £
ma .a**
t..
f £ U* | ~:'' ,A% i
S jffj! >Tr 1’ *V *i ! *^! ! ’As| \ i
B * SEPPEtT & SONS UMtT®B|
few South Australia jfe
I
vmsmpw: ««®u .~->»wBkx
- T~« ■ "<
ďfd
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD,


The Bulletin
Vol. 53 No. 2735.
July 13, 1932.
MISINFORMED.
FARMER FINNERTY: “Oi thought ye told me he was shtuffed!”


The bulletin
The "National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 352 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252188 ; >Phone 87971.
Victoria : lli-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, H Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.S.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
meekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
* months, 15s. Gd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 60s.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for joz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
BACK TO WORK.
The adventures of the two German airmen
on the nor’-west coast of Australia recall
that Lord Northcliffe had been inquiring
into the probable value of that territory
just before his final breakdown. The unem-
ployed problem had become very threaten-
ing in Britain, and no way out seemed
practicable except by emigration. Yet of
existing colonies none seemed capable of
quickly absorbing any very large number of
Britain’s workless. Lord Northcliffe there-
fore turned to empty spaces and explored
the possibilities of entirely new States.
He made preliminary studies of Westralia’s
nor’-west, and, with great hesitation on
account of the probable cost of establishing
new States, had ordered a more detailed
examination just before he was thrown out
of commission.
As Northcliffe seems to have suspected,
there was no reason why millions should
be spent on harbors, railways, roads,
bridges and buildings in the nor’-west when
these things were already amply provided
in the still scantily settled south-east. Our
trouble was then, as it is now, not that
we had not made enough preparations for
settlement, but that we had spent far too
much on them, and now were in need of a
few million more people to help us pay
the interest, maintenance and working ex-
penses. It is this lack of contributors
which throws so heavy a burden upon our
people—a burden all the heavier at the
moment because so many of them are con-
tributing nothing. Yet, instead of recognis-
ing this fact, instead of recognising that
we have already spent far too much on
the foundations and that what we want now
is superstructure, a great many of those
reputedly in charge of the problem of
finding employment for the out-of-work
can think of nothing except to spend still
more on the foundations, with the inevit-
able result of making things more difficult
for the superstructure—the industries of
the country. The real problem is how
to absorb the out-of-works, not in more
of those “productive public undertakings”
with which we are already greatly over-
burdened, but in private employ.
Why are they out of a job? It is easy
to find how most of them were jolted out
of a job. The total exports of Australian
produce in 1924-25 reached 158 millions;
the average for eight years to June, 1929,
was 135 millions. For the year to the end
of June just past the figure will be about
75 millions. In six years to June, 1928, the
total amount added to our overseas debt
was 159 millions on account of Common-
wealth and States. But the amount added
annually to this debt got larger as the
boom became more furious; actually, the
amount added in the year 1927-28 was 54
millions, and the average for the three years
1925-28 was 32 millions. In the same
three years the average export of Aus-
tralian produce was 142 millions. Com-
pared, then, with that period, we are getting
66 millions less for our produce, and, over-
seas borrowing having entirely ceased, we
have 32 millions less available from that
source. So we have about 98 millions less
outside money to spend in a year; and the
sudden stoppage of that was quite sufficient
to jolt a whole lot of people out of a job.
But that does not explain why they are
still out —still out after 2-\ years, some of
them. Why does The Bulletin not em-
ploy 50 more hands? Obviously because
it does not see how it could get back their
wages and salaries. But how do those who
are in this job earn their pay? Just as obvi-
ously through the sale of papers among
people who are at present employed. Yet
there is every reason to expect that as large
a proportion of those who found new jobs
would buy papers as of those already in
jobs. If 200,000 men now out of work were
supplied with jobs, every employer taking
his right proportion of the total, the number
being based on his present roll, it seems
practically certain that the new 200,000
would pay just as well as those do who are
already in employment.
But the thing needs to be done more or
less in a mass. Smith, the little barber
down the street, could not put on his addi-
tional couple of hands until he was assured
that 500 new hands would be taken on in
his neighborhood; but he would be safe
enough in employing them if the 500 were
put on.
But what of the 98 millions a year that
we have lost? If it is gone, we shall not
get it back by keeping hundreds of thou-
sands of people idle; on the contrary, the
employment of these people will reduce
taxation and other costs, and nothing it is
in our power to do for the farmer can be
so valuable to him as that. On the other
hand, we can do few things more harmful
to the future of the primary industries
than the further building up of interest on
capital sunk in those “reproductive works”
of which we already have far too many.
How the very desirable mass action can
be achieved is a matter for serious con-
sideration; but the authority which carried
through a conversion of internal loans
amounting to nearly 600 millions ought to
be able to manage it. Some pressure —or
encouragement—might be applied through
the unemployment relief tax, which might
be used equally to encourage employment
and to discourage inaction at a time when
action is so necessary.
THE PARMER AND THE TARIFF.
There never was a time within this cen-
tury at any rate when a louder call went
up from the country for “the revision of
the tariff,” the assumption being, of course,
that a Customs tariff can only be “revised”
downwards.
That the primary industries have been
unfairly treated is admitted off-hand. Again
and again lately The Bulletin has drawn
attention to the fact that the prices of non-
rural products—meaning the goods the man
on the land has to buy—have not fallen in
anything like the same proportion as rural
products—meaning the goods the man on
the land has to sell. Taking the average
prices for 1911 as a base (=100), the May
price of wool in Sydney was 87 and of wheat
91, while that of non-rural products was
178. In other words, while the wool man
got 17s. 4d. in May for what would have
brought 20s. in 1911, and the wheat man got
18s. 2d., these two had to pay no less than
355. 7d. for the non-rural supplies which
they could have bought for 20s in 1911. But
while there is substantial proof in these
figures that the man on the land is getting
it in the neck, there is none at all that the
blow is struck only by the tariff. If indeed
there were no Customs duties at all the
exchange rate would throw an enormous
load on all imported goods and so allow
of high prices being charged for Australian
goods entering into competition with them.
A consignment left London lately valued at
£217. Exchange and other charges (includ-
ing freight and insurance) lifted the price
to £3lO. On this amount Customs duty
was based, plus primage and sales tax. By
this time the consignment had cost £517;
and more than half of the added price was
due to exchange and the charges based upon
exchange.
One of the queerest features of the cur-
rent demand for a high exchange rate is
that it comes with most vehemence from
alleged Freetraders. Yet the simole fact is
that a 25 p.c. premium on exchange adds
25 p.c. to the duty on every article imported
from a sterling country and approximately
another 15 p.c. to every article imported
from the U.S.A. and other countries still
paying in gold; and to that 25 p.c. or
49 p.c. must be added sales tax, etc., charged
on the exchange premium as well as upon
the original value of the goods plus freight,
etc. The farmer, then, can make up his
mind about one thing: he cannot have a
high exchange rate and low costs of imported
goods; and nobody is more certain than the
Freetrader that you cannot have high
prices for imported goods and low prices
for home-made goods.
Yet, granted all this, the costs of rural
production in Australia are altogether too
high—far higher than can be charged to
Customs tariff and exchange premium and
sales tax. Looking around for causes, one
finds, first, the large control over Parliament
exercised by industrial labor unions, whose
leaders have refused—especially in N. S.
Wales—to concede that the wages of a
debtor country must be governed by world-
prices. From this refusal we get the astonish-
ing result that, although the maintenance of
an artificial wage has thrown 32 p.c. of
the members of N. S. Wales unions out of
work, so that they get no wages at all,
those in work are better paid now than they
were before the depression set in, taking
the cost of living into account.
But there is a larger cause of high costs
than all these. It is not only that the rail-
ways and other services are enormously
over-manned; it is not only that they are
carrying the burden of thousands of miles
of line which do not pay working expenses
and, of course, contribute nothing towards
their interest bill. On top of these great
burdens is piled the prodigious cost of
maintaining the swollen ranks of occupa-
tions either not directly productive or en-
tirely unproductive. To the growth of
these elements of our population is due the
almost grotesque engorgement of our hand-
ful of coastal cities, some of them contain-
ing half of the population of their States.
Yet the urban population of Australia is
by no means abnormal. What is abnormal
is that it is concentrated instead of being
spread over many towns and cities, and
that so small a proportion of it is emoloyed
in secondary industries. Adelaide, for
example, though it holds more than half the
population of South Aus., is almost without
great factories. That fact has, however, not
been sufficient to prevent the drift from the
country into Adelaide. The scientific and
mechanical developments of these latter
days may have some effect in holding youth
to the land on which it was born; but it
is too much to hope that the drift will
ever stop—and it may not be a good thing
that it should. But something must be done
to suitably employ youth when it does
come to town. Thus far there have been
few great manufacturing industries eagerly
looking out for earnest and ambitious young
men; and the result has been the throng-
ing of all those non-productive and only
partially productive occupations which are
so heavy a burden upon the real producers
in the community. Had we long ago
resolved to supply all our own require-
ments in manufactured goods, it is reason-
able to assume that the majority of the
country youths who have crowded the rail-
ways and tramways, and have been hungry
applicants for jobs in shops and offices,
would have become factory operatives,
standing on their own feet and carrying their
own weight, instead of adding to the bur-
dens which the primary producers have to
bear. And it is highly probable, too, that a
considerable proportion of the more pros-
perous middle-aged farmers and graziers
who have come to town with their young
families, and have put their savings into
house and shop properties, themselves hang-
ing out their own signs as agents of some
sort, might have found profitable employ-
ment both for themselves and their money
in productive industry.
EDUCATION ON TRIAL.
A thought-provoking work recently issued
is “The Art of Thinking,” by Ernest Dimnet.
Discussing the shortcomings of educational
systems, the author gives the following
definition: “Education is the methodical
creation of the habit of thinking.” He
shows that an educated man is known
largely by his capacity for resisting another
man’s thought and defending his own
views. His contention is that all children
enjoy a few years of direct vision, a magi-
cal introduction to life; but that, towards
the tenth year, children begin to copy their
elders, with all their mannerisms, faked
interest or indifference, and lack of spon-
taneity. As the years pass, they will pro-
bably look more and more like the multi-
tude, lazily borrowing their thoughts,
attitudes or language from the millions. He
finds that conformity is so strongly estab-
lished that one needs to be a genius to
escape from it.
Professor Nunn has shown (“Education:
Data and First Principles”) that there was
a real connection between the philosophy
of Hegel and the World War: “From the
idealism of Hegel, more than from any
other source, the Prussian mind derived its
fanatical belief in the absolute value of the
State, and the corollary that the educa-
tional system, from the primary school to
the university, should be used as an instru-
ment to ingrain this notion into the soul
of a whole people.” Nunn comes to the
conclusion that nothing vood enters into
the human world except in and through the
free activities of individual men and women;
and that educational efforts must aim at
securing for every one the conditions under
which individuality is most completely
developed.
What is the position in Victoria? Pro-
fessor Murdoch, of Western Australia (for-
merly lecturer in English Literature in the
University of Melbourne), is never weary
of drawing public attention to the evil of
our present examination system—“the
canker at the root of education in Aus-
tralia (and elsewhere)”; and also to “our per-
fectly poisonous habit of making our grand
old English classics into subjects for exam-
ination, thus forcing them upon immature
minds from which they can win no response
but a dull and sullen hatred.” One cannot
but look aghast at the growth in range and
complexity of the syllabuses in the various
subjects for university entrance examina-
tions. One is led to the conclusion that
examiners often succumb to the temptation
to set questions which are hardly in accord
with the prescriptions, or are more suited
to students of maturer years. There seems
a tendency for the expert to set problems
dealing with matters of interest to himself,
without considering their fairness from the
point of view of the youthful candidate.
When manifestly unfair questions appear
on the examination paper, the authorities
endeavor to meet the situation (with par-
tial success) by lowering the standard. This
practice falls short of complete justice
because of the tendency of the nervous,
highly-strung candidate to go to pieces
when confronted with unfamiliar work. But
the greatest indictment of the system is its
narrowing influence upon pupils at the ex-
tremely impressionable stage of adolescence,
when growth of interest in the spiritual
renders their minds fertile for the reception
of the seeds of culture. Hence we have the
paradox of the university, the home of
culture, forcing its future students to tread
an arid path of preparation.
Another grave objection to the present
examination system is that thousands of
school pupils, who have no intention of
proceeding to the university, are forced to
endure this cramming process simnly because
the leaving certificate is the only criterion
of a successful course at a secondary school.
The position has become so acute that,
failing some modification of leaving certifi-
cate requirements, nublic clamor will neces-
sitate the adoption of another criterion. The
solution seems to be the institution of a
certificate of a more general type to suit
non-university candidates. Such a course
might allow greater freedom in the choice
of subjects (after the style of the better
American universities) and a more liberal
method of assessment. There is already a
distinction. Many candidates secure the
leaving certificate without being qualified
to matriculate, i.e., enter upon a university
course. But the distinction applies only to
the manner in which the required subjects
are passed (whether in two or more exami-
nations), and not to any greater freedom of
election or broadening of the method of
testing. Under present conditions, it is
quite safe to say that the best teacher (in
the real connotation of the term) may very
possibly get the worst results. Whereas the
crammer with his eye on the questions set
in former years gives his pupils facility in
passing examinations at the expense of true
learning. The headmaster of a leading
public school recently lamented the fact
that few bo3's, after leaving school, show a
desire to read good literature.
Under such conditions, what chance has
the teacher in a secondary school of foster-
ing the habit of thinking, or of developing
the individuality of his pupils? It is a
common complaint that there is so much
ground to cover that all the lesson periods
are devoted to the treatment of the various
textbooks. Many pupils do not even read
these books, but rely on the teachers’ notes.
There is little time for reading reference
works, for discussions, for writing essays.
It is a long, continuous grind from one ter-
minal examination to the next. Is it any
wonder that teachers take the line of least
resistance and ladle out the mental pabulum
faster than the academic fledglings can
assimilate it! There are members of the
public who complain of the time devoted
to games. Let us rather be thankful that
there is this escape from the dull, mono-
tonous routine of the examination-ridden,
youth. In years to come, there will, no
doubt, be school authorities strong-minded
enough to rebel against the traditional atti-
tude towards university examinations. And
there maj r possibly be parents who will be
satisfied with a broad culture course for
their girls and boys, instead of sacrificing
them on the altar of leaving certificate
attainment. When that happy day arrives,
we may expect from amongst the graduates
of our secondary schools a much higher
percentage of men and women who will
enter public life and become the thinkers
and leaders of the community.
A. J. LAW, M.A.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Our Trade Balance.
In the first 11 months of the financial year
which ended on June 30 we exported
£37,089,000 sterling more than we imported.
The exports include gold, £6,271,000 sterling,
of which probably three millions was old
jewellery and hoarded coin; if that esti-
mate is about correct our balance on com-
modities plus current gold production was
34 millions for the 11 months. A surplus
of three millions may be expected from
June; so we shall have finished the year
with exports about 40 millions in excess
of imports, taking gold movements of all
sorts into account. Counting in only
current gold production, the total would be
36 or 37 millions, which would give us
from eight to nine millions over the charges
payable on overseas loans. At this time last
year we were 22 millions to the good; we
have thus improved our position by 15
millions—sterling being meant wherever the
£ Australian is not specified. This improve-
ment is wholly due to a still further decrease
in imports; they further shrank from 57
to 39 millions.
But while the merchandise exports were
worth only 70 millions sterling, exchange
made them worth just upon 90 millions
to the exporters; and that 20 millions was
paid by importers or by the Government
and other purchasers of Australian money
in London. To what extent the actual pro-
ducers benefited by the exchange it is impos-
sible to say. Certainly they got the great
bulk of the premium; but how much they
paid out in higher prices nobody knows.
The chances are that they paid higher prices
for a good deal more than the actual
imports; for a high exchange premium has
the same effect as a high Customs duty,
permitting excessive prices to be charged
for protected home-made lines. This helps
to explain why Australian wholesale prices
of non-rural products have moved hardly
at all downwards, while rural products have
fallen so heavily.
During the eight years to June, 1930,
the net excess of imports over exports was
62 millions. That is to say, during these
years we not only did not pay anything
towards our overseas interest; we slipped
62 millions still further back. That we
should this year be able not only to pay
all our interest but put by eight or nine
millions as well is a performance to which
we are surely entitled to, at least, call the
world’s attention. It is true that we have
had the benefit of good seasons, and cannot
expect them to go on for ever. Neither,
on the other hand, can we reasonably ex-
pect present low prices to last for ever.
While they do last our position is far
from secure: a bad year would reduce our
exports by much more than our present sur-
plus of eight or nine millions.
The question is: What can we do about
that? Three things seem to be outstanding.


First, we must strive for a greater produc-
tion even under bad conditions. This is
largely a matter of better farming; and the
results from pasture-management show how
very bad much of our farming has been.
Second, we must strive for lower costs,
which will enable us to still further reduce
our imports; for it is only the surplus of
exports over imports that is available to
pay oversea interest—it isn’t the exports
themselves. And in the third place, we
must so show our foreign creditors we can
be trusted that we may presently attempt
something in the way of a great conversion
loan. Our foreign debt is about 600 mil-
lions; but of this amount approximately
only £100,000,000 is available for immediate
conversion at a rate which would show a
substantial saving. Of this total 41 millions
carries 6 p.c. or more, and the balance 5 p.c.
or more; and a conversion loan of 4 p.c.
(the current British conversion is at 31 p.c.)
would save us a million and a half a year.
Always Dodging Our Difficulties.
The Australian politician turns to loans
as naturally as a pig turns to wallow. It
is the easy way out of his difficulties. He
always has a good excuse. There never
was a time when it wasn’t the best time
to borrow. When times are good it is the
best time because money is easy to find;
when times are bad it is the best time
because spending is so beneficial.
It is not surprising, then, that the
Premiers have turned to loans as a way
out of our present tribulations. Improving
a trifle on J. T. Lang’s scheme for a sort
of note issue based on three years’
unemployment relief taxes, it is proposed
to use these taxes in part to pay interest
on a great loan and in part to repay it.
The loan is of course to be spent on
reproductive works. Except in war-time,
there never was a loan that was going to
be spent on anything else; it is just bad
luck that in thousands of cases the loan
has been put into something which refused
not only to pay any interest, but fell
short even of paying working expenses.
That is why we have deficits as a regular
thing, notwithstanding that our taxes have
been trebled during the past 30 years.
Had the gentlemen who attended the
Premiers’ Conference been anything
except politicians, they would have , carried
a preliminary resolution to this effect:
Seeing that the troubles of this country are mainly
due to political action, and seeing that money (and
especially borrowed money) spent On so-called public
works has been very largely wasted, and seeing
further that employment on public works and under-
takings has led to political and other , corruption,
and seeing finally that such employment has turned
tens of thousands of industrious men into loafers,
this conference resolves that engagement of men by
the State on State enterprises as a means of absorbing
the unemployed shall only be considered as a last resort.
Nearly three years ago we decided to
call in someone who was not a politician.
We invited the Bank of England to help
us, and it sent Sir Otto Niemeyer, with
two distinguished consultants. Niemeyer
came to certain conclusions which the
Premiers’ Conference of the day accepted
without a single reservation. But certain
electors then got to work; and, though
they were not experts, though they were
the very men who were largely respon-
sible for the crisis, they had to be listened
to because upon them the politicians
depended for their job. So, although a
few steps were taken in accordance with
Niemeyer’s suggestions, not a thing was
done in a more general way.
There were, our adviser said, two ele-
ments in the internal situation which
called for close attention. First, the
figures showed that Australia was loafing
on the job. In regard to productivity
“the conclusion is inescapable: Australia
is lagging far behind the U.S. A. and
substantially behind the United Kingdom.”
And, second, “the standard of living in
Australia has reached a point which is
economically beyond the capacity of the
country to bear without a considerable
reduction of costs and an increased per
capita output.” Not a rvord was said
about State borrowing, not a word about
finding salvation through absorbing the
unemployed in “reproductive” public
jobs. But there was this, and it stated
a truth from which the record of the past
three years shows there is no escape:
To emerge.... Australia depends inevitably to a
large extent on the primary producer, and the
power of the primary producer, selling in the world
market, depends very largely on the question of his
costs; and those in turn depend very largely on
the general costs in Australia. I assume that every-
body in this room is in agreement that costs must
come down. There may be room for increased effi-
ciency, but.... Australian standards have been
pushed too high relatively to Australian productivity.
If Australia does not face that issue she wi11....
see an inevitable increase in unemployment.
The “inevitable increase in unemploy-
ment” has come: in January, 1930, N. S.
Wales alone had 35,000 unemployed and
in January, 1932, it had 105,000—official
figures in both cases.
In the circumstances it seems about a
fair thing to turn back to Niemeyer. The
situation, he told us, was difficult; “but,”
lie added, “I wish to make it quite clear
that, given determined action, it is in no
way beyond control. The difficulties of
Australia are not comparable with those
from which many other countries have
successfully emerged, and have only to
be squarely faced to be capable of
solution.” We never have squarely faced
our difficulties; to-day we are still trying
to buy ourselves out of them with promis-
sory notes on the future. Is that a fair
thing? Is it an honest thing?
Binghi, Gentleman!
Australia is nobly served by its out-back
police, and in the search for Captain Bert-
ram and his mechanic, lost for two months
in the ruggedest part of North Westralia,
Constable Marshall exhibited courage, en-
durance and bushcraft of the finest order.
His fellow-officers and fellow-citizens may
well be proud of him. But, without under-
valuing his heroic exertions, it is plain that
the German airmen owe their lives to the
aboriginals. In particular to the “wild”
native who, as Captain Bertram gratefully
records, found them when they were fam-
ishing and distraught, fed them, led them
to a sheltered camp, where water was
plentiful, and carried the news to blacks
from the Drysdale mission, who cared for
them till the rescue party arrived.
When it was first known that the airmen
had been forced down on this inhospitable
coast, the yellow press of the southern
capitals gave full vent to its lurid imagina-
tion. Ghastly surmises of what would
happen to the Germans when they were
hunted down by the savage cannibals of
the region fdled columns of space fitly set
off with headlines in the best American
manner. It was even “reliably” reported
that Bertram and Klausemann had been
speared and eaten. We know now that
the blacks tended the lost and starving
whites like their own children—and the
simile is no haphazard one, for the abori-
gine is one of the kindest of parents. They
brought them meat and honey, and when
the weak and helpless Europeans could not
swallow the tough kangaroo meat, masti-
cated it and kept their half-dead charges
alive by feeding them direct from mouth
to mouth, as a pigeon feeds its young.
It is a fine story of primitive courtesy and
charity, and it will do much to shatter the
belie f, if it still exists, that the Australian
aboriginal who has had little or no contact
with what we please to call civilisation is
scarcely above the level of the beasts that
perish. There is talk of rewarding the Drys-
dale and Forrest River natives. No more
fitting reward could be given than the setting
aside ,of reservations, preferably in the north,
in which their race, with its many fine charac-
teristics, can be kept apart from the de-
stroying touch of modernity. The great,
handicap to such a scheme is the rigid
tribal division of the many aboriginal
races, each of them, by age-old tradition
and custom, bound down to its own dis-
trict and hunting-grounds. Still], some
effort should be made, and, whatever the
cost, no one who knows them well will
deny that these fast-dying peoples are
worth the endeavor.^
The Banks and Prosperity Loans.
Instead of borrowing millions for Govern-
ments to mis-spend, Uncle Sam formed the
National Credit Corporation with the object
of helping private enterprise to lift the
country out of the bog. The corporation is
“sponsored and subscribed to by the banks
of the country, the object being to mobilise
banking‘resources into a pool, out of which
to make loans in the present emergency.”
The U.S. banking system is not like ours;
Uncle has thousands of small local banks,
many of them weak, and the corporation’s
job is to take over business which the
individual bank cannot, or will not, handle.
An application for an advance of this sort
is made in the usual way to a bank; the
bank hands it on to the district committee
appointed by the Credit Corporation, which
digs into it. If an advance is approved,
then all the banks in that district are liable
for the advance in proportion to their
subscription to the corporation.
It may be that there is room in Aus-
tralia for a pool of much the same sort.
Advances made now to promote enterprise
may carry larger risks than ordinary. It
is not primarily the purpose of a bank to
restore prosperity; its purpose is to do ordi-
nary banking business and make a profit
for the shareholders in the process. It
could not risk the deposits of its customers
on any other terms. If anything further
than that has been called for—to assist
closer settlement, for example, or to make
house-building easy—even the State savings
banks have called upon the State for a
guarantee against loss. But while it may "
be too much to ask any bank for an
advance on any less than sound security—
for an advance; that is to say, on which a
risk is taken in the hope of restoring pros-
perity—it is not too much to ask the banks
to throw part of their resources into a pool
out of which such advances might be made.
4
Foreign Debt Payments.
When the world was sane gold was the
basis of almost all currencies. An English-
man knew precisely how many £’s he would
have to provide to pay a Frenchman a
bill in francs; an Australian knew just
how many £’s would be required to pay
an American bill in dollars. Gold, there-
fore, was the substance of bank reserves,
and the basis of bank credits. Note issues
were based on gold; in our own case the
average issue was four times greater than
the Note Department’s gold, and a bank
issued credit vastly in excess of its bullion.
Gold thus did two. jobs: it was the only
money in which international debts could
be paid,, and it was for that very reason
the basis of note issues and bank credits.
But ordinarily very little gold passed
between nations in settlement of debts.
(New gold does not come into this argu-
ment; if is. as new gold, merely a com-
modity.) Very little gold passed even
when millions were borrowed for so-called
development; practically always the loan
was made in the shape of goods. If Aus-
tralia did not send away enough wool and
wheat and hides and timber, etc., to pay
for its imports and to meet its foreign
interest bill, it simply borrowed the differ-
ence.
Then a great change came over the world.
Enormous debts had been incurred by a
few nations, and when they sought to pay
in the usual way—by shipping goods—they
were blocked. The war had left every
nation with many unemployed, and every
nation wanted to set its own people at
work. Nor were more international loans
being made. There was only one thing
for it then—to ship away gold. We found
that out, like the rest. But no sooner did
the gold start to flow out from the great
nations than they found their credit system
upset. Gold, having been called upon to
do its first job, was not there to do its
second. So the credit system of one nation
after another collapsed; and when credit
is impaired, prices fall and remain low
till credit is restored.
An attempt was made to supply Germany
with gold as the basis of credit : the Dawes
Plan, the first of a series of plans, pro-
vided for a gold loan in the hope that the
nation’s prosperity would thereby be re-
stored and it would be able to pay its
reparations and other foreign debts. But
once more those two functions of gold
clashed. Germany was more prosperous for
a while; but it could not pay its foreign
debts in goods, because other nations shut
them out, so the gold had to be used for the
purpose; and once more German credit
shrank because, for one thing, there was no
gold to build it on.
So long as the nations can settle their
debts with one another by exchanges of
goods, gold does its work as a basis of
credit, and upon credit depend prices. As
soon as there are great foreign debts which
can only be settled in gold, the basis of
credit is knocked away and prices crash.
Which explains why world prosperity will
not return until the war debts are either
wiped out altogether or some plan is
devised by which gold will be enabled to
function freely again as the basis of credit,
or something else is put in its place.
♦
A Farmer Goes to Ottawa.
In his first annual pastoral as head of the
Bank of Maoriland, Oliver Nicholson, the
new chairman, pleads for “the creation of a
self-dependent rural community, comprising
the bulk of the population, by their settle-
ment on the land in small holdings” as the
best means of insuring his Dominion against
such bludgeonings of fate as the world is
at present experiencing. It has taken a good
40 years for far-sighted Jock McKenzie’s idea
of Utopia to find its way into the encyclical
of a bank president, but time has proved the
seed to be good. Maoriland to-day is more
firmly rooted to the soil than any other unit
of Empire. The country is land-minded, and
in the conduct of its affairs it prefers farmers
to lawyers and financiers, however able the
latter may be. With the advent to power
of Massey, who grew excellent potatoes at
Pukekohe, the islanders commenced an era
in which farmers have become more and
more the paramount class in politics.
Ward’s Indian-summer Administration was
merely an act of grace on the part of
Farmer Forbes.
McKenzie’s policy, which was, strangely
enough, rather neglected by Farmers Massey
and Coates, was resumed vigorously as soon
as Farmer Forbes became a power in the
land. In the last three years 2080 selectors
have been placed on the land, occuping
738,400 acres. Of these holdings 955, com-
prising about 200,000 acres, were new land,
the remainder being subdivisions of big
estates and a number of forfeited or aban-
doned sections. It is hard luck for these
new settlers that they should have struck
the worst slump in history at the outset
of their ventures, but the State, to which
they are responsible, is run by men who
have been through similar mills, and they
are getting a fair deal so far as the Gov-
ernment is concerned. But they feel, and
all the other farmers feel, that the world
isn’t giving them a fair deal in the matter of
prices, and that is the principal matter that
will occupy the mind of Farmer Coates, who
goes to represent the Dominion at Ottawa.
Farmer Forbes put the Government’s view
very clearly when, in a statement about the
Ottawa Conference, he said: “The problem
of how to raise the price level to a point
that will restore a reasonable measure of
prosperity is one of acute urgency. Unless
a practical solution can be found it does not
appear that any increase in trade facilities
can by itself save the situation or put the
farming industry on its feet.” Forbes hopes
the conference will do something to “raise
the sterling price level.”
Being dependent on farm exports for so
much of its income, the folk of the
Dominion have always taken a much keener
interest in problems of currency and ex-
change than is evidenced by the people of
Australia. Conservative on other matters,
they are inclined to radicalism on this, and
it is on record that one of their most erudite
Royal Commissions expressed its approval
of Irving Fisher’s principle of a currency
based on commodity prices. The voice of
the Dominion at Ottawa, therefore, though
it may be like that of one crying in the
wilderness, will call for drastic action to stop
the disastrous rot that has set in because of
the merry .pranks played with gold by cer-
tain Great Powers. Maoriland’s view is
that a system of currency which works or
can be manipulated so that a farmer can’t
grow wheat or spuds at a profit is a dashed
bad system, and should be mended or ended,
lest the world go hungry. And if the Ottawa
Conference doesn’t -do something about it
Maoriland’s Farmer Government will be bit-
terly disappointed.
♦
The Aeroplane in Modern War.
“X.N.0.” in reply' ~ ,
Lest anyone reading the letter of “Carisbrook,
Jun.” from Shanghai (B.’ 29/6/’32) should derive
from it further “proof” of the theory that “the
next war will be in the air,” let me point out
that the aeroplane attack on Chapei was a very
one-sided affair. The Japanese were able to bomb
systematically without opposition. A very different
matter from doing the same job in the face of
competent defending ’planes. Any war-weapon or
-machine must be 100 per cent, efficient if unopposed.
Aircraft were chosen on this occasion because of
the objections, peculiar to the locality, to the use
of gas or artillery.
The acid-test of the usefulness of a war-machine
of any kind in making victory decisive is its
ability to occupy and hold territory. Navies, no
matter how powerful, cannot themselves achieve
victory. They may make it possible by convoying
troops, blockading coasts or bombarding an enemy’s
lines, but these operations merely pave the way for
the soldier. He alone can actually win a war by
occupying and holding the enemy’s country. if
a navy is therefore unable to do more than prepare
the way to victory, how much less effective is the
modern aeroplane as a deciding factor in -warfare.
Aircraft arc merely adjuncts to a navy or an army ;
when conditions are favorable they enable more
extensive reconnaissance to be carried out than
formerly, and their bombers bring to bear a new
kind of artillery, firing vertically down instead of
more or less horizontally. But they do nothing
new, they merely do old things more effectively—
sometimes.
Aircraft can no more win a war than a navy
can. Until war is. no more, the function of being
the actual winner will devolve on the shoulders of
the P. 8.1.
♦
State Lotteries.
What a shocking bog we have got into qan
be judged by the statement of the N.'S.
Wales Minister for Health about his State’s
lottery. The hospitals,' he declares, are
receiving about £750,000 a year from this
gamble, and they simply cannot do without
the money. “If,” he says, “those who base
their objections on ethics and morals will
combine to do away with the totalisator,
refuse direct and indirect income from race-
courses and the like and eliminate all
betting taxation, there might be some con-
sistency in their attitude.” Well, that
doesn’t mean The Bulletin. It refuses
to see in a raffle anything necessarily im-
moral; but it does see in a great non-pro-
ductive institution which lias to be main-
tained by the workers something utterly
foolish and uneconomic. The N.S.W. lot-
tery employs several hundred people
who, whatever their personal merits, are
parasites upon the community. Every
pound it costs to keep them has -to come
out of the pockets of producers; and they
return not a farthing to' those ' pockets.
It is because the country is overrun with
such leeches in a thousand different forms
that there is so heavy a demand for hos-
pitals and so great a difficulty in keeping
them open; for every addition to the
leeches means something added to the
national cost of living. If a wheat-farmer
has a dozen working horses and adds to his
string three or four which do nothing for
their keep, obviously the cost of that
farmer’s wheat will bo increased by the
amount it costs to keep the non-producers;
and it is just the same with non-productive
institutions fastened upon the community.
The State has got into exactly the same
condition as a dope fiend. The more he
takes the more he thinks he has to take
to keep going; and the more a country
breaks all economic laws, the more it feeis
it has to break them in order to keep
going. But there is no salvation that way:
there is only crisis and crash. Salvation can
come only with a hard struggle backed by
a firm resolution to do the right thing.
But that right thing we shall not do until
we have cleaned up politics. These have
so saddled the public that even the poli-
tician has not the hardihood to impose
further taxation; wherefore he looks around
for other sources of revenue. And since
men will cling tightest to their vice.?, weak
Governments find in them their easiest road
to additional revenue.
4
The New Guard Case.
“Clifford Snook”: The affair of the New
Guardsmen who raided Garden’s house
becomes more confused than, ever, but I
suggest the following as an explanation
which. I think, would meet the case. It
was advisable that Garden should be
assaulted to advertise him as a sufferer in
the cause of the people, and it was advis-
able that members of the New* Guard
should do the assault to advertise them as
a bad lot. As anybody can join the New
Guard this seems easy enough. It was
advisable for the defendants to plead guilty,
for if they had forced an investigation the
Lord only knows what might have come
out. But the magistrate took the case seri-
ously enough to make the Sentence three
months, whereas a small fine with the
accompanying obloquy (for the New Guard
movement) would have been enough. Then
Lang went out, and Garden sank beneath
the horizon, and the defendants were left
feeling distinctly sorry for themselves. And
the public has been left wondering why the
sentence should have been confirmed in six
cases, reduced to a month in the seventh
and to a bond in the eighth, when they all
pleaded guilty.


\
i
H
'h C
“I’ve been smoking them for
over five years and have never
found them vary one iota!”
CRAVEN “AT
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
POLITICAL
POINTS
The British Government is getting on
famously with the conversion of over
£2,000,000,000 of 5 p.c. war debt into a
31 p.c. debt, and in the process has given
a fillip to Australian stocks. The rush
of people who want the reduced interest and
safety is remarkable. With politicians like
Lang in power the rush to get their money
back in full might have led to fatalities.
Australia having got up to its neck in a
bog of debt, the Premiers’ Conference set to
work last week to save us. And this is how
it did the job. First it decided to go into
debt for another £15,000,000, of which it
“Coming forward to the footlights after the last
performance on Friday, Miss Margaret Rawlings
said: ‘Ladies and gentlemen, here lies “The Good
Fairy,” dead and buried—buried beneath the mud
that has been thrown at her.’ ”
The Premiers’ Conference ended the same
day in much the same way. It was a
had week for good fairies.
proposes to get and spend £7,000,000 this
year. Then it decided to go into debt for
a further £6,000.000. And finally, it decided
to go into debt for an additional £9,000,000.
There was once a man who thought he could
drink himself sober. In fact, there were
once seven men—all Premiers.
The seven millions to be spent this year
on unemployment relief is to be cut up
among the States, N. S. Wales getting three.
Apparently this is in addition to the Is m
the £ on wages, salaries, dividends and other
income; the only mention that slug gets in
the Priminister’s report of the proceedings is
that “a special sinking-fund provision is
contemplated in connection with those loans,
and the special taxation raised to meet the
unemployed conditions will be applied to this
purpose.” But as the N.S.W. shilling pro-
duces more than three millions it is sate
betting that the taxation will not be ‘applied
to this purpose.” The story is more political
dope, that’s all.
If this land-annuities wrangle is referred
to an Empire tribunal, with Hertzog _ as
chairman, it is to be hoped that the thing
will be done in a magnanimous spirit so that
results may be lasting. A nice friendly
arrangement would be for De Valera to
nominate Craig and Carson, and for Thomas
to have British interests protected by Bang
and the editor of the “Labor Daily.”
Every day on an average a letter appears
in the “S. M. Herald” denouncing Aus-
tralia’s “insane tariff.” Letters denouncing
Britain’s new tariff, which is quite as insane
or quite as commendable as Australia’s,
never appear. This “injurious differentia-
tion,” as Bruce Smith used to say, is rough
on our suffering country.
City of Sydney elections are due in a
few months. The “Labor” or Tammany
party can always rely on the lodger vote,
and its opponents sometimes defeat them-
selves by fighting one another. This hap-
pened in 1924 —there followed three of the
most shameful years in the city’s murky
municipal history—and there is a danger
of its happening again. If the Government
hasn’t courage enough to abolish the lodger
franchise it should at least provide for pre-
ferential voting.
It is just about time somebody did what
Hogan, ex-Premier of Vic., threatens to do;
he says he will sue the Vic. Central Labor
Executive “for personal damages for breaches
of the rules and other outrageous decisions.”
Somebody certainly ought to challenge the
right of little Trades Hall cliques to speak
in the name of Labor and act accordingly.
The party has become one of the least demo-
cratic institutions in the world, governed by
that worst of all oligarchies—the sort that
gets power by cunning and keeps it by put-
ting the knife into anybody who looks like
starting a clean-up. If the law is powerless
to come into such a business, it is a very
dud law. Incidentally, though Labor re-
tained the Carlton seat, its vote fell just on
2000 in two months, and a Communist polled
2253; and this fat-headed Central Executive
is largely to blame.
The statist to the N.S.W. Industrial Com-
mission estimates that the cost of living in
N.S.W. cities and towns, on the N.S.W.
Board of Trade formula, is £3 12s. 9d. per
week. Of course, there is a row about it:
one lot of people can show they can’t live
on less than £5 a week, and another lot say
it can’t be done on less than £4 10s., and any
Insolvency Court could produce dozens who
are ready to swear that they have cut down
exes, to the bone and yet have gone into
debt on £lO. It all shows how absurd it is
to try to fix the wages of a community on
what some mostly-elderly gentlemen think it
costs a family to live. What it costs a man
to live doesn’t govern what he can earn;
what he can earn must govern in the long
run what he can afford to spend.
The organiser of the N.S.W. Labor Council
says the basic wage should be fixed not at
Sawltins’s £3 12s. 9d., but “at £5 at least.”
And, if if should be fixed at all, no doubt £5
is a better 1 figure.. It would be quite feasible
to fix it at £5, too — or £8 for that matter —
if we didn’t have to sell wheat on the over-
seas market at the equivalent of 2s. 4-id.
country sidings, and wool at 7d. per pound, in
order to pay our interest bills and buy the
things we still must import. The moment the
Labor Council organiser can persuade Russia
and the other wheatgrowers to demand Bs.
and the woolgrowers 35., the basic wage can
be made £5 per week without a bit of bother.
Prior to the Hoover moratorium Australia
was receiving £BOO,OOO or so p.a. from Ger-
many on account of reparations. It will get
no more for at least three years and is un-
likely to collect another cent. For, by virtue
of an agreement reached at Lausanne, Ger-
many’s liability to the war-winners is fixed
at £150,000,000, payable in bonds to be
issued any time between three and fifteen
years after ratification —if market or other
considerations permit. Meanwhile the Allies
will go on paying one another and Uncle,
unless Uncle relents. It seems an excellent
arrangement for Fritz and for Uncle.
It is a good many years since a writer with
a world-wide reputation called Australia “the
country which doesn’t tolerate criticism.”
No doubt he got that idea partly from our
Parliaments. If a Government proposes some-
thing of which some of its followers don’t
approve and say so, immediately there is
loud talk about a “Ministerial rebellion,” as
there was in Melbourne last week, when the
Government had trouble with its bill to em-
power transfer of £150,000 from the Country
Road Board’s fund to Consolidated Revenue.
Our fool of a system assumes that every
Minister thinks the same on every tinpot
question that every other Minister brings for-
ward ; it will be a greater farce if plain
members are encouraged to think that they
can’t have a mind of their own either. N. S.
Wales had its fill of that system under Lang.
“In their dire emergency the German airmen were
saved by the promptitude and resourcefulness of the
despised aboriginal.”
“Good on you, Binghi, old sport! Blowed
if I don’t think we ought to sack all
our blasted politicians and send for
you.”
Twenty young men who have read all
there is to be read about the “mountain of
gold” that lured the late unfortunate Las-
seter are setting out to find it or the best
available substitute. They start from the
south-east coast (Brisbane is more definitely
south-east than it is definitely anywhere
else) ; then they will follow roads and rail-
ways till approaching the north coast;
finally they will follow hills known to be
auriferous into unknown country. The
leader says the pretentious caravan is “prac-
tically certain to find gold,” and so it is,
but the chance of finding enough to pay 5
per cent, dividend on the cost of finding
seems small. The party might d 0 better to
start a cotton factory. The failure of a
factory doesn’t involve great heroism and
expensive rescue expeditions.
“Having swallowed a watch and chain and re-
turned it to its owner, a Melbourne sword-swallower
swallowed a fork. It lodged in his stomach and
had to be removed by a surgeon.”
About the same time Robert Gibson found
a whole tableful of Treasurers who
could swallow a bank.
Ninety Lang-planners who were billeted
on the taxpayers as “dole inspectors” have
received their walking-tickets. Their case
was referred to the Public Service Board,
which drily reported that they “were not
suitable for appointment.” They will be
joined presently by C. J. Goode, whom Lang
reckoned “suitable for appointment” as
Chief Transport Commissioner at £3500 p.a.
And if the Meat Board retains the wholly
political complexion which Lang gave to it,
wonders will never cease.
Vic. hospitals received £52,000 from the
tote for the 9£ months to June 30. A pretty
good result, considering that tote betting is
new in Victoria, is confined to a few courses
and is subject to a moderate tax—s p.c. In
N. S. Wales, where the tote has been estab-
lished for 16 years and the Government
exacts 9 p.c., the revenue to June 30, 1931,
was a bit under £143,000. Since machine
betting arrived racecourse crowds, who pay
State and Federal amusement taxes, have
increased in Melbourne, and there has been
a corresponding decline in s.-p. betting, so
rampant in Sydney. It seems highly pro-
bable that Victoria will get better results,
in one way and another, from its 5 p.c. tote
tax than N. S. Wales from its 9 p.c.—that’s
if the Stevens Government persists in being
as stupidly extortionate as its predecessors.
Queensland school-teachers threw up their
hats when Moore was beaten. The opti-
mists among them now expect that their
salaries will be lifted to 1929 levels, and
that their privileges will be extended, if any-
thing. The privileges include eight weeks’
holiday p.a., a week’s sick leave on. full pay,
another on half-pay and three months’ long-
service leave. Salaries may be augmented
by election work, coaching jobs and the like.
One teacher on £3OO p.a. contrives to' run
a small dairy farm, doing the milking before
and after school. Expenditure on Govern-
ment schools —exclusive of building costs
and technical colleges—-leaped from £461,700
in 1915, when there were 126,319 pupils, to
£1,344,300 in 1930, when there were 160,327.
Bung, who protests that he is breaking-
down- under the strain of high taxes and
lean takings, has had it eased a bit in Vic-
toria, where the license-fee levy on bar pur-
chases has been reduced from 6 p.c. to 4 p.c.
The necessary bill was whisked through by
the Labor Government just before Christ-
mas. Bitter reference to this concession
was made by prohibitionists when protest-
ing against a poll being taken at Red Cliffs
to determine whether a pub should be set
up there.
A university professor in Adelaide is
being laughed at for paying his income tax
. twice. Those who are finding humor in the
Circumstance migh't find tragedy in the report
of an expert called in to examine their own
returns and assessments. Not one person in
a dozen knows what his tax will be, which
means that not one in a dozen knows
whether he has been undercharged or over-
charged. The system everywhere in Aus-
tralia is absurdly complicated, so that most
people do what apparently the Adelaide pro-
fessor did: throw up their hands and pay
whenever they think the bushrangers have
hailed them up again.
A significant thing about the Premiers’
Conference last week was a sudden silence
re lifting the exchange rate—a subject on
which certain N.S.W. delegates were very
eloquent at the outset. One explanation is
that people who are interested in the suc-
cess of Ottawa began very earnestly to point
out that Australia couldn’t hope for conces-
sions from Britain so long as, apart alto-
gether from the tariff, the Commonwealth
charged 25 p.c. on all British goods landing
in Australia and now proposed to charge
10 p.c. more.
It transpires that those ungenerous com-
plaints about the expense of looking for the
German airmen were uttered by C. F. Baxter,
the Westralian Chief Secretary, not by G.
F. Pearce, so The Bulletin owes the Minis-
ter of Defence an apology. Actually, the
measures he sanctioned contributed to. the
happy issue of the search. It has been sug-
gested to him that the Drysdale and Forrest
River missions should be equipped with
wreless outfits and landing grounds. A
better idea would be to establish a military
post with' these and other accessories in
North Westralia.
Country meetings in N. S. Wales begin
to ask for inflation —at Temora, for example,
“that the Prime Minister take the necessary
steps to raise the rate of exchange by at
least 10 p.c.” Do these gentlemen know
what it means? Do they realise that
they are asking the Prime Minister to go
out into the world and proclaim that our f
is really not worth as much as it has been
valued at —that, instead of being worth 165..
it is actually only worth 14s. lOd. or less?
What would they say to the manager of a
bank who tried to break down the credit of
his employers? Yet that is precisely what
the wheat and sheep gentlemen of Temorti
are asking Lyons to do.
The Sydney Chamber of Commerce has
decided that the Government is “too long-
in taking action about the tariff.” . It also
resolved that until the tariff is revised (re-
duced to the level of 1921-1928) Australian
affairs “cannot possibly be placed upon a
sound basis.” If the tariff were reduced
it is claimed that Australia would get more
Customs revenue than it does now, because
the increase in dutiable imports would, more
than outweigh the decrease in the duties on
imports. In other words, the people would
pay more in gold for foreign goods, and
would pay (and receive from themselves)
more in paper money as duties on these
goods. Since John Bull went baldheaded
for Protection, with the avowed purpose, of
reducing his excessive imports and giving
his manufactures a better chance, the differ-
ence between him and his imitators in Aus-
tralia has been marked.
MOTHER: “You ate all the butter yester-
day, and now you must have dripping.”
CHORUS: “That's no good to us, Mum.
Let’s have to-morrou's butter to-day
It is a wonderful country. Of all parts of
Australia there is probably most distress in
Sydney—anyway, there is most unemploy-
ment—yet infantile deaths, generally most
awful in times of shortage, were only 39.8
per 1000 births in .Tune, compared with 44.28
per 1000 births in June, 1930. and 48.49
per 1000 in June, 1929, when things were
booming.
Shannon and Molomby, two of Vic.’s Rail-
way Commissioners, will complete their
terms in nine months and are not likely to
be reappointed, having reached the retiring-
age. Given a workable Transport Act Chief
Commissioner Clapp could do the job alone.
If there are to be new colleagues for him.
M. .T. Canny may be one; the other, if any
heed is paid to the recommendation of a
Royal Commission, should be a business man
from outside the service.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Selma”: Ours is an ultra-respectable
Darlinghurst residential, but even we have
our share of excitement. It began on
Sunday morning with a crashing of boulders
on the roof, which turned out to be the
deserted wife of the gentleman in No. 17
saying it with blue metal. Next day the
occupant of No. 9 received the contents of
a bucket of water as he passed a house up
the street, but this proved a case of mis-
A SAFE ANSWER.
“Where have you been, you beast?”
“You may not b’lieve me, darl-hinc, but I ’sure you I washn’t (hie)
there.”
taken identity, the lady apologetically ex-
plaining later that she “mistook him for
the landlord.” Arriving home late at night
I was startled to note a large lady mopping
the pavement with a diminutive gentleman,
■who, she asserted, had promised to marry
her and then gone back on his word. She
added that she was going down to the pier
to commit suicide, and left me to break
the tragic news to him. I did so when he
came out of his daze, but lie merely muttered
that he would go down to the pier and make
sure she did it. He must have failed, for
the couple returned and were still bickering
outside an hour later when the police arrived
and said they had information of a burglar
being in the garden. We arose to watch the
search, and were a little disappointed when
it proved fruitless. About six a.m. the milk-
man knocked us up to say he couldn’t leave
any milk as the jugs, plus money, had all
been stolen. Life in Darlinghurst is never
dull.
$
“Pink Tape’ : Of course a bird can be in
two places at once; but can you or I? The
point was raised in a Melbourne court the
other day when a man was charged with hav-
ing been in Lothian-street for the purpose of
betting. He said he hadn’t been in Lothiau-
street; and it was admitted that he stood
inside a house and put his head and shoul-
ders through a window to do business with
the crowd outside. He was prepared, through
Lis mouthpiece, to argue at great length that
if his feet weren’t in Lothian-street he
couldn’t possibly have been there —that,
though part of him might have been there,
part of him, wasn’t the whole. The law said
it was 1 a fine point and he could take it to' a
higher court if he liked; meantime lie would
be fined £2O.
“Inner Temple" : Sly-grocing
is England’s latest crime. It’s
an outcome of taxation which
makes the imposts on beer over
15 times higher than they were
in 1914. Over 70,000 barmen
and barmaids and 200,000
others are out of work owing
to a state of affairs which
caused one London pub-owning
company to report a £20,000
fall in draught-beer sales in the
first week after the last budget.
Pub-keepers are trying to cope
with the situation by selling
groceries. Amongst other goods
that you can now purchase in
metropolitan licensed houses
are tea, coffee, cheese, hams,
sausages and all kinds of
canned goods. Many Boni-
faces encourage consumption of
foodstuffs on the premises in
conjunction with a glass of
something alcoholic. The law
only allows groceries to be sold
in pubs up to 8 p.m., and
“time, gents, and lydies,” isn’t
cried in London till 11 p.m.
In the interim, it is alleged,
thousands of illegal sales are
made, and the grocers, who arc
the chief sufferers, are kicking
hard. One of the weapons with
which they are bombarding the
pubs is “packet beer.” Grocers
with off-licenses sell it for
domestic manufacture at a
farthing a packet—each packet
yielding a pint. Partly because
of the extra on each glass
of bar beer, partly because of its
poor quality, there is a boom in
"packet beer” all over the U.lv.
“Modestine” : Isolated Norfolk Island has
a weekly newspaper at last. A young Maori-
lander is responsible for the enterprise,
which claims 300 subscribers. News of the
N.S.W. elections was published by means of
a broadsheet 12 hours after the numbers were
up in Australia. The editor is also the re-
porting- and canvassing staffs; in fact he
typewrites, publishes and delivers the paper
himself.
“New_ Coll.” ; Sdmeone has been remark-
ing again on tbe insignificant figure cut by
Rhodes scholars
in public lift,
taking into con-
sideration their
natural and other
advant a g e s.
Hand-picked as
they are for phy-
sique, as well as
b r a i n s, they
should, at least,
be doing as well
in the world as,
say, the Duntroon
boys did in the
war. Yet a huge
proportion have
passed into vir-
tual oblivion as
schoolmasters,
university dons,
lecturers and the
like, or as mod-
erately success-
ful members of
the professions.
I don’t know of
one who has be-
come an Empire
statesman, or who
achieved high
distinction in the
Empire’s last
war. Nor has
any Rhodes
scholar of any
nationality de-
veloped into a
great European
of the type of
Lord Cecil or
even Ramsay
MacDonald. Yet
the whole object
of the scheme
was to produce
in the first place
great Empire
men, and in the
second great men
of the world—
. using the term in
its literal sense. The only analogy to their dis-
appointing record is to be found by a scru-
tiny of the list of Senior Wranglers of the
past generation or so. You can count the
Senior Wranglers who have done anything
great for the world on the fingers of two
hands.
* * St *
“D.”: Another example of the tendency
to believe the worst of poor old Binghi on
no evidence at all was provided in connec-
tion with the loss of the German fliers the
other day. An “old blind woman” said she
had heard from someone unspecified that
“the Germans had been speared,” whereupon
nine natives were arrested (or, in the police
euphemism, “held”) as “witnesses” to a
crime which they knew nothing of for the
best of reasons. Actually it was through
the kindness and intelligence of the blacks
that the fliers were saved. If whites had
been arrested in similar circumstances they
would have had actions for false imprison-
ment, and might have collected heavy dam-
ages ; but abos. seem to have no rights in
this respect. We sneer at the Americans
for the way they treat their niggers but I
have a suspicion that our record would be
found to be worse if the truth and nothing
but the truth were told.
‘‘The Listening-Insect”: Winston Chur-
chill, who was paid £3OO in U.S.A. to broad-
cast his views on the economic problem,
some of which were recently cabled to Aus-
tralia, offered to give a similar talk to
Britons, but was rebuffed by the 8.8. C. It
offered him £5O to talk on a “less controver-
sial subject.” The typically Churcliillian
retort was that he would pay the 8.8. C.
£5O for the privilege of delivering .bis
original lecture. Rebuffed again, the emi-
nent publicist announced that he would
go to the Continent and broadcast there
from a station that could be picked up
A BIT THICK.
EMPLOYER (to office-boy who has explained his lateness by the fact that a heavy fog
has delayed the harbor ferries) : “But you don’t live across the harbor.”
OFFICE-BUY: “No, sir; but I thought you did, sir.”
by English listeners. This incident dis-
poses of the boast that the 8.8.0. is unique
amongst Government-owned radio services
for fostering liberty of speech, though in that
respect it is far superior to the Australian
sendee, which once censored the word
“bloody,” used in the sense of “sanguinary,”
and deleted some lines from a poem by
Shelley because they spoke disrespectfully
of authority in general.
“Streamer” : I doubt if Tommy Walker ever
measured up to John Norton in the matter of
vituperative headlines (B. 6/7/’32). I was
sub-editor of the Brisbane edition of
“Truth” when John, on one of his flying
visits to that city, fell foul of the late Wil-
liam Kidston, then Premier. “Wully,” as
was his custom, was sitting tight on the
details of some new bill he was about 10
introduce; challenged in the House, he made,
as was his manner, a long and vociferous
speech, ending up with the declaration that
he was “retiring into his shell” until the
appointed time. John’s full-page, double-
leaded, long-primer leading article the fol-
lowing Sunday morning carried across the
top of the sheet:—
A Cacophonous Crapulous Crepuscular Crustacean.
“Bert the Carpenter”: Touching these
buried hoards (B. 22/6/’32), I was once
sent to remove the cedar fittings from an old
house which was being demolished at North
Adelaide. In taking down the architraves
around a bedroom door I found 15 sovereigns.
They were over 50 years old, and the house
had passed through many hands, so I decided
to make findings keepings. In 1919 my dentist
gave me 275. 6d. apiece for those sovereigns,
and I reckoned I had made a good deal until
a Chow cabinet-maker informed me that he
would have given “tlirty-tlee” bob.
“Taltingan”:
You never can
tell what’s
round the cor-
ner. A few
weeks ago an
old Irish soldier
at Broken Hill
decided that it
was time for
the Last Post,
and made so
sure th a t
strych nine
would do it
that, in a sort
of diary he
kept, he enter-
ed under one
date: “Admit-
ted to the
morgue.” But
he didn’t die,
and all that
happened to him
was a charge
of attempted
suicide, squared
by a promise
not to do it
again. Appa-
rently he cele-
■b rated his
escape by get-
ting drunk, mis-
took mutton fat
for food, choked, and was picked up dead
from suffocation.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: It isn’t altogether clear why
the Victorian Education authorities should
have ruled certain lines in Kipling’s
“English Flag'’ unsuitable for a school
reader (B. G/7/’32). To delete the lines
about “the poor little street-bred people”
who “yelp at the English Flag” is to cut
away the peg on which the poem hangs.
It is—or anyway it was in the early
editions —prefaced by a newspaper extract
which tells how a street crowd, watching
a building being burned, cheered when the
flames reached a Union Jack waving
somewhere on the top, seeming to “find
special significance in the incident.” There
is no clue as to what was the newspaper
quoted, or whether the fire was in London or
anywhere else. Also it is just possible that
the reporter misunderstood the ebullition,
and that it was the flag rather than its
demolition that was being cheered —in which
case the peg is an obviously shaky one. Still,
the poem doesn’t hang together without it,
and Kipling may reasonably object to its
mutilation. No poet worth his salt would
stand being sub-edited by the gentry who
compile school readers.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: A hardy annual is the
Sumatran ape man, which has just been dis-
covered again by Dutch scientists, with the
aid of a rajah whose servants shot at and
wounded a mother and killed her baby. The
ape man has a respectable antiquity, dating
back to Herodotus and beyond. The satyr
of Greek mythology was originally a man
of the woods. The early Britons believed
that the men of Kent had tails, and a simi-
lar legend about the whole British nation
once found favor among the French. With
the spread of knowledge the tailed man
gradually evacuated Europe, only to turn
up in India, and later in Malaya. A six-
teenth-century English navigator captured
several near Malacca, but his vessel was
wrecked before he could get them home.
When I lived in Singapore I learnt that
THE LIUN IN THE PATH.
THE ARTIST: “There’s a lot in what these Communists say, after all.”
HIS WIFE: “But what I can’t see , dear, is what’s the use of being
as good as everyone else if everyone else is, too.”
ape men were no longer to be found in
Malaya, but that there were plenty in
Borneo, where they frequently stole human
wives from the villages, and proved such
good husbands that the ladies could seldom
be induced to return. However, I never had
the luck to encounter any when I moved on
to Borneo.
THE HOOD OH,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Australia’s champion swimmer, Andrew Charlton,
been ordered a dose of castor-oil.”
—Cable from Los Angeles.
lie nations sit in conclave at Lausanne;
World issues occupy them day by day.
Each morning, an he list, a thoughtful man
May read wliat Ramsay Mac and Ilerriot
say
On whether Germany her debts can pay,
And how to shuffle off this war-caused coil.
Does this exhaust intriguing items? Nay.
Boy Charlton’s had a dose of castor oil.
What’s this? At lifting Prohibition’s ban
They’re obviously bent in U.S.A.
Staunch Democrat and sound Republican
For once their forces set in like array.
Bootleggers contemplate in dire dismay
The. end of their remunerative toil;
Creased are the brows of those who hooch
purvey;
And Charlton’s sunk a tot of castor oil.
Old Erin seethes with De Valera’s plan
Allegiance to disown and debts defray,
While Bull insists that no Dominion can
Sponge-clean the slate in that ingenuous
way.
Wool’s up a bit, and grim depression's
sway
A trifle less severe on British soil.
Parkhill’s in Darwin, Gandhi in Bombay;
And Charlton’s had a nip of castor oil.
Brother, give thanks we live where cables
span
This good brown earth and radios relay
All items —from Jamaica to Japan,
Iceland to Ind and Cuba to Cathay—
That hopes may raise or apprehensions
stay.
’Twill win our champions more Olympic
spoil
Than e’er before —or anyhow it may:
Boy Charlton’s had a dose of castor oil.
N.S.W.
T. THE K.


“2nd Divvy”: Mrs. Barney was acquitted
at the Old Bailey last week of murdering
her lover (though as the Judge said “there
was little dispute that she fired the fatal
shot”), and
A roar of cheers arose in the street when the
verdict was known. Enthusiasts stopped the traffic
and broke the police cordon.
The English hate to admit it, but they be-
lieve in certain unwritten laws just as fer-
vently as more southern races. It is nearly
always safe to puncture one like the late
Michael Stephen, who, having started a
liaison with a married woman, lives on her
and treats her badly. I saw a young man
named Malcolm acquitted in London during
the war amid scenes of truly Gallic emotion-
alism. He had gone to the 12s. 6d. a week
room of his wife’s lover, one Comte de
Borch, and shot him in five or six places.
He wouldn’t even deny that he had mur-
dered De Borch, yet Sir John Simon put
it to the jury that he had acted in self-
defence ( !), and there was an enthusiastic
verdict of “Not guilty.” The English code
differs from that of the French. The French
condone nearly all crimes of passion because
IN CON HID ERA TE BR UTE.
LITTLE WIFE : “I wish he wouldn’t
more so, darling. It makes my
Fido think there’s (mother dog
in the room, doesn’t it?”
they argue that some people are irrespon-
sible when in love. The English condone
some on the ground that the seducer de-
served all he got.
“Jenny Lintott” : The leader on “Women in
Public Life” (B. 22/6/’32) reminds me that
in my salad days on a metropolitan daily
I set out to find Australia’s Three Greatest
Women. Billy Hughes was Prime Minister,
and I wrote to him about it. He replied
“If you would live long and die happy, take
my advice and drop the subject.” After a
Premier and a rhetorical K.C. had also
refused to be implicated, I decided to see
if the women themselves would talk. They
did. An M.L.A. of my own sex pinned me
down for two hours and I left her convinced
that she regarded herself as all three.
Another prominent political lady nominated
her two sisters for second and third place
In an attempt to get a wider view, I appealed
to the late Miss Rose Scott. In a charming
note she suggested Melba —Melba hadn’t
Sred to any of the others —Mrs. JEneas
, and as the third possibly Mrs. Henry
Dobson, Tasmania’s Grand Old Lady. In
the hurly-burly of newspaper work, I parked
the idea, and Australia’s Three Greatest
Women remain unselected.
“Napper T.”: An American biographer
of Eamon de Valera finds an additional
reason for his. subject’s intense nationalism
in the fact that he is Spanish on the male
side, his father’s stock having been long
settled in Cuba. The argument is that the
most whole-souled nationalist almost always
has a'foreign strain in him, just as the most
nncbmpromisihg advocate of a - religion is
found in the convert —there are plenty of
instances of both. De Valera is Irish by
upbringing rather than ancestry, as Par-
nell was The fact that Ireland’s present
leader is American by birth saved lus iite,
according to the same authority, in 19to,
it may have made no difference to his citi-
zenship. but no British military tribuna
would take the risk of sending to execution
an American-born Irish rebel at a time when
England was so vitally interested m bring-
ing Uncle Sam into the war on the .side
of the Allies. , ...
“Kokopo”: The inability of the Irish to
popularise the Erse language among the
inhabitants of the disthressful country re-
calls the situation the Germans had to
face many years ago when
they took over what arc
now again New Britain
and New Ireland from- the
British. For their deal-
ings with British traders,
the civilised or semi-civil-
ised natives had learned to
speak the Island “pidgin,”
which obtains from the
Gilberts to the Carolines.
The Germans tried to
make their new vassals
speak their language and,
when this failed, sought to
impose a sort of German
“pidgin” on them; but it
was no use. Throughout
their occupancy of what is
now Mandated New Guinea
the Germans had to speak
“pidgin” English, whether
they liked it or not. Still,
they managed to leave one
impress of their own
tangled verbal construction
on the New Guinea “pid-
gin.” Though closely akin to that used in
Papua, the New Guinea lingo differs in that
the verb, such as it may be, often tags on
to the end of a long and involved sentence,
German fashion.
“Sol M.”: Manoel Braganza, late of Por-
tugal, who choked to death in exile the
other day, was luckier than one _or two of
the Czars, who choked at home with disloyal
.subjects sitting on their chests. Manoel
was the 15th sovereign of the House of
Braganza. He reigned two years (he began
tlie reigning job at the age of 19, when his
father and elder brother were murdered) ;
then a tired populace moved him on. He
had been 21 years in exile before he choked.
The Braganzas had a reigning branch of
the family in another continent —a unique
distinction. The South American branch
office closed in 18S9, when the Brazilian re-
public opened for business.
"Landlubber”: There’s an obvious reason
—though it may not satisfy “One Who
Pays”—for the scurrying of motor-launches
and other small craft to and from H.M.A.S.
Australia and the shore (B. 22/6/’32). If
the Navy set out to do a week’s routine
and _ domestic work it could clean the job
up in a day; and it would be idle for the
other six days. Hence the spinning out
of nautical duties. Sailors have to carry,
say, half a boatful of goods to the shore.
They may take three trips to do it. Econo-
mically unsound? Yes, but so is the whole
institution of the Navy, if it comes to that.
The Navy was built for war, and when
there’s no war life is one long wrestle with
the clock.
* $ * :j!
“D.”: An entertaining story was told to
the S.M. at Sydney Central Summons Court
last week. Prosecutor, a tailor, said he had
made a dinner suit for defendant some time
back, and had been paid. There were appa-
rently no complaints, so when defendant
said he wanted another dinner suit the tailor-
made it. But defendant had been secretly
boiling with indignation during all those
months. When the tailor turned up with the
new suit defendant uot only substituted the
old one —a fact which the tailor only dis-
covered when he got back to his shop with
the parcel—but uttered vainglorious taunts,
such as “You’ll have to get up very early
in the morning to catch me,” and, in the
“Sun’s” guarded phrase, “employed other lan-
guage hardly complimentary to the tailor.”
The inexplicable feature of the business was
the trustfulness of the tailor—assuming, of
course, that the press reports of the case,
which the S.M. dismissed, are correct. I
never knew a man who, upon finding that
a suit for which he had paid cash was un-
satisfactory,' failed to give tongue in a
manner that left no doubt about his lacerated
feelings. If this customer had done so the
tailor would have known where he stood, and
saved a lot of time and money. As it is the
tailor seems to have gained nothing but the
1 knowledge that there are more dangerous
menaces than non-payers, who, in the last
resort, can be dealt with through the Trade
Protection Society. No society can protect
a tailor against customers with a Machiavel
complex, and there are plenty of them about.
“Fusee”: Not only the Footguards regi-
ments 18. 22/6/’32) but their lesser
EXHIBIT O.
“Do you often see your parents?"
“Oh, often, Nurse has to take me in nearly every time they have visitors.”
brethren of the Fusiliers have suffered from
the hot and heavy bearskins; the Hussars
and Horse Gunners _ also groaned under
the same affliction in the days of full-
dress parades. Neither the Fusilier nor the
other busbies had the proportions of the
Guardsman’s headgear, but all were alike
in the matter of being inordinately weighty
and unhygienic. Another specimen of army
lid which has deserved the_ heartfelt
curses of all compelled to don it is the staff
officer’s fore-and-aft cocked hat. It is as
impervious to fresh air as the fur headgear,
and affords not even the slight protection
from sun or rain which the bearskin or
llio busby offers.
“Label”: The ballot-
paper for the annual
election of officers of
the Sydney branch of
the Waterside Workers
is unusual in that the
nickname of each can-
didate is always given.
The explanation is that
many of the candidates
are known to hundreds
of their fellow-workers
only as “S now y,”
“Darkie,” “Bull,” or
something of the .sort.
The same curious cus-
tom is common in mili-
tary life, as the A.I.F.
will testify. One in-
teresting feature was
that men with certain
names always acquired
the same prefix—for in-
stance, whoever heard
of a Clark who wasn’t
“Nobby,” a Miller who
wasn’t “Dusty” or a
Murphy who wasn’t
“Spud” ? The same
applied to physical
characteristics. There
are thousands of red-
headed men still living
who in their army life
never answered to any
other name, save at roll-call, than the per-
versely inappropriate one of “Blucy.”
“Extra Master”: Anyone who really
believes that the tiny rift of the Panama
Canal has “diverted” the Gulf Stream (I>.
6/7/’32) is quite capable of having voted
for Lang at the recent elections. The Gull'
Stream is only the latter part of the Equa-
torial Current, which, starting somewhere oil
the south-east coast of Africa, runs west by
north across the Atlantic until it strikes
the shores of South America just north
of the Amazon delta. Thence it tlows,
ever northward, through the Gulf of Mexico,
until it develops into the Gulf Stream proper
off the eastern coasts of the United States.
In all its wanderings, this current is separ-
ated from the land by what is known among
hydrographers as the “cold wall,” a band of
cold water varying from 30 to 40 miles in
breadth. Nothing short of a world convul-
sion could direct the waters of the Equa-
torial Current at right angles td their accus-
tomed course through the Panama Canal.
If that happened, there would be no Panama
Canal.
“Peckham Rye” : Any victim of the form
of practical joke invented by Theodore Hook
will naturally refuse delivery of goods of
acceptance of services which he hasn’t
ordered, but some of the misguided humor
of Henry Labouchere’s tormentor (B.
6/7/’B2)—his grudge is said to have arisen
from Labby’s exposure of Pigott in the
Parnell case—took more subtle and aggra-
rating forms. He ordered, in Labou-
chere’s. name, a large number of presents,
mostly of a perishable nature, to be deli-
vered to the friends and political associates
of his hetc noir —“a salmon for Mr. Glad-
stone, a prime Stilton cheese for Sir Wil-
liam Harcourt, a haunch of venison for Mr.
Asquith,” ami so ou. These tokens of good-
fellowship were generally delivered, accepted
and probably consumed in entire good faith,
and the first Labby would hear of them
would come in the form of a letter of appre-
ciative acknowledgment from the recipient.
It was never ascertained whether the bene-
ficiaries felt it incumbent on them to pay for
their “presents.”
“ Whitehall”: The leading English talkie
critics have been slamming “England Awake,'
on which a lot of propagandist money has
been spent, for the very quality which H.
Gordon Bennett, president of the N.S.W.
Chamber of Manufacturers, says, somewhat
surprisingly, that Australians lack. The
film appears to be one long orgy of skite.
John Grierson remarks in the “Clarion”: —
National sentiment comes near to choking in the
dust of superlatives. I am, professionally, a Bntish-
Bester myself, and presumably my innards are inured
to the heavier doses, but “England Awake”, was too
much for me, I came out of it a ramping and
roaring Kamchatkan.
This is tins natural reaction of one of
British origin to self-praise, and there is
horse-sense behind it. The booster, once so
revered in the U.S.A., does no real good for
his country, liis town or himself. While a
boom is on his braggadocio is superfluous,
and when the slump comes those who recall
his wild words tend to deride him and his
country. America is getting less sympathy
than it deserves in respect of its 12,000,009
unemployed, because it used to boast so loudly
about having none at all; and England is
getting rather more credit than it should
for paying its debts, because it has never
been in the ha bit of telling the world about
its wealth. Australia can’t do better than
follow the English lead in this connection.
“M.”: The sculpture on the old Colonial
Bank in Melbourne, recently mentioned in
The Bulletin, was neither the work of
Web Gilbert, who was a small boy at the
time it was erected, nor bis namesake, the
mason, who worked on the building. It was
modelled by Frank Fallie, a Frenchman,
who gained a high reputation in the ’eighties
as a carver in Melbourne.
* * * *
“Baigona”: I must sympathise with my
fellow-demon “Langsuyar” (B. 29/6/’32)
after reading his account of the depression
among the Powers of Darkness in Malaya.
Business in Papua was never more brisk. My
own particular branch of the profession is
the organisation and control of “Sendings.”
When a call is made on my services by
some magician desiring a ghostly messenger
to inform an intractable that he must die
by such and such a date and see that he
does it, I promptly supply him with an
efficient and well-trained Bind. But even
my extensive staff is working overtime, and
I fear a demand for shorter hours and
higher wages in the near future. A friend,
who specialises in the crocodiles which, as
attractive young ladies by river banks, lure
flash young gentlemen to their doom, tells
me his bookings are three months ahead.
THE TOUCH THAT MATTERS.
“He does such silly things, Rebecca, I don’t think he can be right in his Read:’
“My tear, I wouldn’t vorry about a man being touched in der head so long as he can
be touched in der pocket!’
THE MAN WHO WAS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“My. Hughes, on his arrival in London, posed for
a battery of photographers.”
Time was, in almost regal pomp and state,
’Mid cheering crowds’ tumultuous acclaim,
With all the limelight that surrounds the
great
Of earth, unto the Empire’s hub you came,
'rime was they hung on every word you said
And framed an outsize halo for your head.
Time was gold boxes rained about your way
And ’Varsity degrees came thick and fast.
But tempora mutmtur, William, eh?
Ah, well, what boots it to recall the past?
Others, as famous then, perforce must plough
As lone a furrow as you plod in now.
L wonder will you meet him who of yore
You partnered in the wizardry of Wales,
Whose spells, so magic once, avail no more,
Whose matchless strategy no more avails.
And sympathetically coalesce
In burning words on human fickleness?
Still, none can rob you of the days that
were;
You had a glorious innings while it went:
And if the bands no longer bray and blare,
It should afford a glimmer of content
To have them rush you still, these camera
chaps.
You’ve still a value in the way of snaps.
N.s.w.
IFORD.


ď
Old Fashioned !
Unsightly!
Why spoil the beauty of your
windows with clumsy wooden
frames and rusty wire?
Uloll upyour /
DfirtdoW Screens like bluuts J
Fitting snugly on the inside of the
window, harmonising with the cur-
tains and woodwork, the Australian-
made B.R.G. Rolscreen will not mar
the appearance of any window. When
not needed > they roll up out of the
way at a touch of a finger, yet have
to be deliberately cuf open to gain
access from outside. Permanently
installed they never need taking
down, and have the unique advan-
tage of being equally effective on
casement windows.
For old or new windows they can
be supplied in any size, ranging from
1 1 inches to 61 inches wide.
B.R.G. ROLSCREENS
(Patented throughout the World).
Manufactured by the Australian Reinforced Concrete Eng. Co. Pty., Ltd.,
430 CHANCERY LANE, MELBOURNE, C. 1.; 14 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
~ c ri om Pj ef e details and prices, call on or write to —
UFRTH : Sn-ucturnf t£°' ? ty - ADELAIDE: Elder Smith & Co., Limited.
BRIsBANF- h D S vno P« E fv^ c °' v, f , limited. SYDNEY: Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd.
S y Sl 11 i n S ton Derbyshire’s * Co.;
**
H t
it
IBii
The B.R7G. Rolscreen—inconspicuous, rustproof,
permanent, rolls uo and down like a roller
nlinct.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Seventy this month is William Bragg, one
of the world’s leading scientists, who came
to Australia when a mere youngster as Pro-
fessor of Physics at Adelaide University,
and stayed there from 1886 to 1908. He
married a daughter of an old Adelaide iden-
tity, Charles Todd, P.M.G. and weather pro-
phet. The son, W. L. Bragg, has shared a
Nobel prize with his father, and is now a
professor at Manchester.
D. S. Aarons, who has just been appointed
assistant general manager of the Vacuum Oil
Co. of N.S.W., joined the company in West-
tralia 29 years ago. Its business has
taken him to every State in the Common-
wealth, as well as Maoriland and the U.S. In
the war he served with the 16th Battalion,
rose to captain’s rank and was awarded the
M.C. and bar.
Ex-Attorney-General Slater, who lost his
Vic. Assembly seat in May, is re-entering
Melbourne University to take a degree in
commerce. When he returned from the war in
1917 and won the Dundas seat he began to
study law, getting the benefit of certain con-
cessions for returned soldiers. His diligence
was amply repaid, for he had three terms
as Law Minister, one under Prendergast and
two under Hogan.
With the election of the two Copleys to
the Queensland Assembly there are two
pairs of brothers in the Parliament —a pair
on either side. W. 11. and G. P. Barnes,
C.P.N. members for Wynnum and Warwick,
have been fellow-members for years. W.H.
was Moore’s Treasurer.
Predecessors of Dave Gordon in the
Presidency of South Aus. Leg. Council
since the introduction of responsible
government in 1857: Lance Stirling
(1991-32), R. Chaff ey Baker (1893-
1901), Henry Ayers (1881-93), William
Milne (1873-81), John Morphett (1865-73)
and J. Hurtle Fisher (1857-65). Morphett
was Speaker of the Council in 1851-55, and
Fisher (his father-in-law) in 1855-56, when
the Constitution Act was passed. John C.
Morphett (88 next September), sometime
Clerk of S. Aus. Parliaments, eldest son of
Speaker Morphett and grandson of Speaker
Fisher, is a link with both these oldtimers.
Walter Duncan, of S.A. Leg. Council,
brought off a double when he was elected
on the same day president of the Royal Agri-
cultural Society and leader of the Liberal
party in the Upper House, this last in suc-
cession to David Gordon, the new president.
Duncan’s father was party leader from 1901
till 1913. Dunean-llughes, of the Federal
Parliament, is his elder brother.
A. H. DAVIS ("Steele Rudd”), whose “On
Our Selection” stories, which originally
appeared in The Bulletin, have been
made into a successful stage play and
a talkie. The talkie is to be shown in
Sydney early in August.
Percy Landale, of Chippenham Park,
Deniliquin, who died last month, was about
the best amateur oarsman in Australia in his
day. He learned his rowing at Hawthorn
Grammar School, as a pupil of Prof. Irving,
who pioneered amateur boatracing in Aus-
tralia, and, going on to Cambridge, he was
in the crew which beat Oxford in 1887-
88-89. In 1903 he became owner of Quia-
mong, where he was a successful breeder of
high-class stock.
Bob Semple, the Labor representative
of Wellington East, spent his first 20
years in Australia. He worked as a miner in
M.L.; formed a miners’ union; helped to
form a miners’ union federation, and then
became organiser of the Federation of
Labor. He was one of the leading spirits
in the waterside-workers’ strike of 1913,
and was imprisoned for his activities. Dur-
ing the war he opposed conscription, and
served another year in gaol. With a different
political philosophy he might have been a
very successful captain of industry, as he
proved when he took a contract to build
BOB SEMPLE.
Wellington’s Orongorongo tunnel. He got
together a fine team of miners, arranged re-
muneration on a co-operative business, ruled
his camps with a rod of iron, barring gamb-
ling and booze, and got the job done in a
period that broke all Australasian records.
He is a vigorous and effective public
speaker, and the only time he was at a loss
for a retort was when he was addressing
a Christchurch meeting and opened by say-
ing; “I suppose I am a stranger to most
of you in this vast audience.” A squeaky
little voice from the crowd piped up, “Don’t
worry about that, Bob; so am I.”
Gone to the Final Muster, Tom Tabart,
Inspector of Stock in Tasmania for half a
century. Appointed in 1870, he became
Chief Inspector in 1881. He had served
under 25 Governments, and played a not-
able part in the eradication of sheep scab
in the ’seventies. His services were retained
long after the usual age limit; he was
94 at the close.
W. 11. L. Thornton, who has called it a
day at 90, was the doyen of Queensland pas-
toralists. Son of a British Army officer,
he. was born in a troopship on the St. Law-
rence River, off Quebec; when his father
came to Australia with troops he brought
his three-year-old son with him. Thornton
pere left the service and bought Waterloo
station (N.S.W.) ; at 19 his son and: some
friends overlanded to North Queensland
with cattle, and took up Dotswood station
on the Burdekin. This is only a few miles
from Charters Towers, and the young squat-
ter many a time rode over the ground that
was later to become one of Australia’s rich-
est goldfields. A great breeder of short-
horns and blood horses, he was a notable
rider on North Queensland racecourses in
the days when “Corinthian” events were a
feature of all race programmes.
The Right Rev. Frederick Goldsmith,
whose death at 76 in England is reported,
was a well-known clerical figure in Perth in
the ’eighties and ’nineties—he was dean of
the diocese for 16 years, and when Bunbury
became a see in 1904 he was its first bishop.
He went back to England 15 years ago to
become vicar of Hampstead, dear to Cockney
picnickers.
A grand old civil servant was Peter Whit-
ington, dead in Adelaide at 87. He went
from bottom to top of the State Audit Office,
and was a trusted adviser of many Govern-
ments. Among his sons are “Rufus,” of
Adelaide “Advertiser,” and Bertram, of Mt.
Lyell. Archdeacon Whitington (Tas.) is a
brother, and another was for years secretary
to S.A. Jockey Club.
Sixty last week, Sir Alexander Hore-
Ruthven, perhaps the most widely popular
Governor S. Aus. has ever had. He won
the V.C. in the Sudan, and was badly
wounded in France. In between, he had
been in Australia as military secretary to
the G.-G. He is a younger brother of the
9th Baron Ruthven.
Old N.S.W. railwayman John Harper,
who has just finished the journey, once
helped The Bulletin’s “Wild Cat” to prick
a very dirty little bubble. Shortly after
Ardlethan tinfield was discovered, out
beyond Temora, the full-page prospectus of
an amalgamated co. was advertised in
Sydney, and, to show the public that it was
buying real producing mines, ! half a dozen
photos, of great stacks were printed, and
railway-station yards were said to be over-
flowing with tin ore. The “Wild Cat” had
just been over that .line and had seen those
stacks; and it got from John Harper an
order directing station-masters (1) to fur-
nish a return of (a) all tin ore and (&) all
wheat in their yards, and (2) to permit
photos, of all yard-stacks to be taken, also
authorising them to mark which were wheat
and which ore. There was one tiny little
dump of ore; all the rest was wheat. Less
than 10 tons of ore had come into the
stations altogether. A writ was issued
against The Bulletin; but it went no
further. Neither did the company. John
Harper was as straight as a gun-barrel.
The late John Verran wasn’t Moonta’s
only contribution to high politics. West-
ralia’s “Happy Jack” Scaddan was born there,
although he learned his mining at Eagle-
hawk (Yic.). Jack matured much earlier
than John, becoming M.L.A. at 28 and Pre-
mier at 35. Also he has shown more stay-
ing power, for, despite some reverses after
leaving the Labor party, he regained a seat
and a portfolio in Mitchell’s Nationalist
Cabinet a couple of years ago.
Dr. August Scheidel, who has died in
Germany, was hard hit by the war. When
it began he was managing director of the
Commonwealth Portland Cement Co. and a
leading figure in Sydney. He was fond of
art and music, had a large circle of friends
and entertained lavishly. As a German he
had to resign from the Union Club, and of
course lost his Portland job. He was a
typical Prussian in looks and ways—stout,
blond, square-headed, square-jawed and
truculent —and he had boasted of his friend-
ship with the Kaiser. He lost most of his
friends and never regained them. But his
memory remained fragrant in Portland as
a considerate employer and the enlightened
donor, through his company, of a park, free
electric light and other amenities.
J. E. C. Turner, dead at 93 at Adelong
(N.S.W.), had seen more of Australia’s
early goldfields than most. He could tell
of Ballarat and Bendigo, Fryer’s Creek,
Mclvor and Rushworth. As long ago as
1856 he was on the Adelong diggings, where
he and his uncle erected the first steam
crushing mill in the district. Turner did
well at the Kiandra field, and then left the
game to become a breeder of cattle and
sheep and a winemaker. He was a native of
Somerset.
A. P. Newey, Vic. secretary of the Royal
Life-saving Society, received a shock the
other day when he learnt that he was no
longer an official of the institution; after
22 years’ service he had been automatically
reappointed so many years in succession that
he forgot to put in his nomination. He is
a schoolteacher by profession.
Brigadier-General WISDOM, the retiring
Administrator of New Guinea. He says
the Mandated Territory is “one of Aus-
tralia’s greatest assets,” and “more than
any other country in the world offers
careers to young Australians.”
One of the last of Adam Lindsay Gor-
don’s friends is dead at Glenelg (S.A.) —
J. L. Hawkes, 93. He was a notable yachts-
man in the time of Judges Boucaut and
Bundey. R. J. Hawkes, president of Syd-
ney Chamber of Commerce, is a son.
Harry Charles Carter. C.P. member for
Liverpool Plains (N.S.W.), was born on the
same day as T. R. Bavin. There is no other
point of resemblance. A native of Norfolk,
where his people were on the land, Carter
arrived in Australia in 1892 at the age of 18,
and worked as a farmhand for the late A. A.
Dangar at Baroona, in the Singleton dis-
trict. Three years later he kept the books
H. C. CARTER, M.L.A. for Liverpool
Plains ( N.S.W. ).
on Moohu Springs, another Dangar property,
and before five years were out managed the
property, remaining manager until the place
was subdivided in May, 1926. He then ran
Yanaman North, which he had purchased
years before, and Woonah, with his three
sons as partners. Carter is a breeder of fat
cattle, sheep and horses, has invented a salt
lick, and writes extensively on pastoral
matters. He was president of the Tamarang
Shire Repatriation Committee and was for 12
years a member of the Shire Council.
Hugh Hood writes:—■
A paragraph (B. 22/6/’32) on the death in London
of Miss Agnes Bowen, daughter of Queensland’s
first Governor, credits her mother with being
Italian. She was Greek. When Lady Bowen turned
the first sod, at Ipswich, of the first railway in
Queensland in February, 1864, Governor Bowen
referred to his wife as “a daughter of that illustrious
land Greece,” and in the book “Queensland Railways,
First Half-century, 1864-1914,” it is mentioned that
the lady was “a member of the Greek nobility.”
Her maiden name was Diamantina Roma.
The Garibaldi celebrations —the “Liber-
ator” died in 1882 —recall that his son Ric-
ciotti dwelt in Melbourne from 1876 to
1886 after having served with distinction
for France in the Franeo-Prussian War. He
worked hard on the Melbourne wharves when
he was lucky enough to get work. Several
children were born to him and his Irish
wife while in Australia, and one son,
Giuseppe, has become well-known in Italy,
of which no Garibaldi would renounce his
citizenship, for oflicial labors which included
looking after the many Italian workers on
the Panama Canal construction.
J. H. Fox, whose death in England is
reported, came to Australia half a century
ago and for years was one of the leading
pastoralists in the Burnett (Q.) district, one
of his properties being Dugandan. He was
a keen mounted infantryman in the old State
militia service, and went to the Boer War
as a lieutenant in the Second Q.M.I. Later
he returned to live in his native Berkshire,
but he made frequent visits to Australia.
Brigadier-General Cunliffe-Owen, dead in
Britain at 69, was O.C. Royal Artillery with
the Anzacs in 1915. He was at the Landing,
and was Brigadier-General R.A. for the Dar-
danelles army till early in 1916. Later he
commanded artillery brigades in France.
His first smell of powder was in the Boer
War, where he served for two years.
“M.U.R.”: Another Australian who re-
turned to the front after losing an eye (B.
29/6/’32): is the present Minister for Com-
merce, C. A. S. Hawker. A Cambridge
undergraduate, Hawker got a commission
in a British infantry regiment. At Loos
he lost one eye and had an important nerve
in the arm severed. He returned to France
and at Passchendaele stopped another —this
time with his spine, which is why he is lame
to-day.
“Office-cat”: It was seldom necessary for
the late Alex. Dunlop to turn over the copy
to see the name : over 20 years in the reader’s
chair of The Bulletin had enabled him
to “place” any regular contributor by the
first line or two. He was himself an excel-
lent penman, and when he wrote a par. every
comma was in place, every capital letter
marked; at the same time he could be relied
on to decipher the vilest scrawl, and stacks
of such came his way. One reason why The
Bulletin contains so* few errors is that
the lino.-men have a “style-card” which the
late reader perfected. There were no tricky
words which eluded him, and he has left a
much easier job for his successor.


If You Want Queensland Trade,
You Must Advertise in
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
This great Queensland daily, and its
companion journal, the “Sunday
Mail,’’ give a sccond-to-none
“cover’’ in the metropolitan area and
in country districts. Their popu-
larity is explained by their brightness
and the all-round excellence of their
news featui-os. The strong circulation
position of both papers is revealed by
recently issued independently verified
audited certificates. Rate cards, etc.,
from
Robert Jackson,
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
('Phone: K 1522.)
YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
d
BRAKE
LINING
TRADE _ MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
Insist on “RAYBESTOS”—with the Silver
Edge. Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
ďfd
Representative:
. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
WOODS'
CREA W* IMT
CURE
For Coughs, Colds,
and Influenza.
The Unrivalled Remedy
If any illustration in "The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
New Zealand Farmers’ Fertiliser Co.
Towards
March, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1922.. 15,916 Nil 50,041
■Share forfeitures, £2383 .. .. 47,658
Profit.
1923.. 7,247- Nil 7,247 40,411
Share forfeitures, £11,061 .. .. 29,350
1924.. 24,106 Nil 24,106 5,244
Additions to reserves, £2186 .. 3,058
£» Reserves.
1925.. 25,724 7* p.c. = .19,650 6,074 3,016
Written back from taxation, £1,824 4,840
1926.. 27,156 7\ p.c. = 19.650 7.506 12.346
1927.. 25,187 7-i „ „ 19,650 6,637 17,883
1928.. 17,626 6 „ „ 15,720 1,906 19,789
1929.. 27,655 8 „ „ 20,959 0,696 26,485
May,
1930*. 30,975 8 „ „ 24,453 6,522 33,007
1931.. 4,649 Nil 4,649 37,656
1932.. 15,785 5 p.c. = 13,099 2,686 40,342
“Fourteen months.
Of the measures necessary to mitigate the
effects of a crisis due to a precipitous fall in
real income, increased production is one of
the most effective. Hence the Maoriland Gov-
ernment decided to assist farmers to pur-
chase top-dressing, provided the fertiliser
cos. reduced their prices. This was done,
and the demand for super, increased with
a consequent shrinkage in the manufac-
turer’s unit costs, which were further
assisted by cuts following an overhaul of
manufacturing and distributing methods.
Thus for the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts there was a spring of £15,411
in this co.’s gross earnings (£69,986), and
the net result benefited bv £11,136 of the in-
crease, reaching 5.7 p.c. on capital as against
1.7, 10.1, 10.5, 6.7, 9, 10.4 and 9.8 p.c. back
to 1925. Shareholders, who went hungry
in the previous year, were handed 5 p.c.,
making an average of 6.2 p.c. over the last
eight years. The future, however, is full of
uncertainty; prices lack strength, and costs
are stubborn. Still, the Government is con-
tinuing its policy of assisting farmers, and
that means a lot to the super, cos. Wages
have been reduced, and legislative cuts made
in interest charges. Opinion is sharply
divided on the exchange question. The Gov-
ernment, which revoked the pool regulations
at the end of last month, is strongly opposed
an early lift in the rate.
The co. has had a tough. struggle from the
start, 11 years ago, when an accumulation
of imported stocks broke down the market.
Also, domestic affairs in the industry were
unsatisfactory, and continued so until about
four years ago, when differences were
patched up. The board, however, never lost
its faith in the future, and, with much
assistance from the bank, it bought a freez-
ing works at New Plymouth in 1924 and
installed another super, plant there. Since
then substantial additions have been made
1o both plants, and as money has become
available the debt has been reduced, as this
next comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows:—•
1924. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £261,745 £261,995 £261,995 £261,995
Overdraft .. 22,786 197,099 195,052 156,218
Other liabilities 46,008 41,126 19,996 11,915
Land, buildings
and plant.. 278,684 421,498 414,899 408,516
Stocks .. 10,364 97,811 79,348 44,902
Book debts .. 36,906 38,302 21,0'03 30,082
Stores, etc. .. 409 70 70 70
Last year’s allowance for depreciation and
a reduction of £34,446 in the stocks item
enabled the board to wipe £47,515 off the
amount coming to outsiders and carry an
extra £9079 of book debts. When the books
closed liabilities exceeded more or less
liquids by £93,079, which was £22,148 less
than the excess at the previous balance.
The market, doubtful of the future, notes
the size of the overdraft, and prices the
pound shares at 12s. The return at that
figure is 8.3 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The
backing is 235. Id. in net tangibles, all fixed
assets, worth what they can earn.
Babinda Central Mill Co., Ltd. (Q.)
Despite the “peak-year” restrictions of the
sugar agreement, farmers at Babinda har-
vested an extra 2559 acres (11,459 alto-
gether) last season. There was a trifle too
much ram during the cutting period,
causing a drop of 0.5 p.c. in the sugar
content of the cane; still the average yield
per aero was 0.4 tons higher. The mill
crushed the record quantity of 237,708 tons
(up 25,103) for an extra 2341 tons of sugar,
the total outturn (33,652 tons) being passed
on to the C.S.R. for refining and marketing.
It was a good season everywhere, and the
quantity of sugar used in the more profitable
home market fell away; thus a larger pro-
portion had to be sold in London, where
Empire producers get a preference over
foreigners. However, exchange softened
the blow, and the final average price
of raws was £lB 6s. 6d. a ton, a drop of £1
6s. 7d. compared with 1931. Sugar pro-
duced in excess of “peak-year” quotas was
taken into account at £9 ss. Babinda
farmers received an average of 375. KM. a
ton for their cane, as against approximately
455. in the previous year—a further small
distribution for last season is yet to come.
Shareholders, who are also growers, receive
no divs.; they benefit by increased prices for
their cane. Owing to the drop in prices the
proceeds of last year’s record crop (£612.133,
including a small carryover from 1931)
were £6149 lighter, and the farmers’ cheques
(totalling £449,273) were actually £45,604
less in the aggregate. Though some of the
juices were refractory, milling and all other
costs (£134,837, down £7068) were reduced
by 2s. to 11s. 4d. per ton of cane, or £3 19s.
9d. per ton of raws. After sending
£6OOO to investment depreciation account
(now £11,600) in accordance with Queens-
land’s new Companies Act, £1844 was car-
ried to rest account (£6092).
Last year’s outgo included £22,732 tram-
way maintenance and £13,510 general
depreciation. Assets are shown at cost,
and are offset by reserves of various kinds
amounting to £181,292. Here is a bird’s-eye
view of the position:—
1931. 1932.
Paid capital £327,512 £354,736
Treasury Loan .. .. 78,810 51,586
Other liabilities .. .. 61,875 66,156
Depreciation reserve .. 102,730 114,674
Insurance and other reserves 51,324 66,718
Mill, etc 266,373 268,440
Tramways 195,066 194,205
Sundry plant 1,284 1,205
Shares, etc., in other cos. .. 12,832 12,832
Stocks 16,429 14,377
Debtors . . . . . . 52,803 88,797
Investments, cash, etc. .. 77,463 73,914
Helped by £27,224 of new capital (used to
pay a similar amount off the Treasury
loan) and transfers to reserves, finances im-
proved £53,337 during the 12 months to the
end of March. Outlay on fixed assets was
slight, and the more or less liquid surplus,
exclusive of interests in other cos., amounted
to £59,347 w T hen the books closed. Debtors
(£88,797) included £84,466 coming from the
C.S.R.
The interests in other cos. (£12,832) in-
clude £8332 shares and advances in the Aus-
tralian National Power Alcohol Co. at
Sarina. This concern manufactures alcohol
from sugar-cane residues, and, though tech-
nically successful (it supplies the power
alcohol used in “Shellkol”), it has not the
output or the market to ensure steady pro-
The Queensland Cane Harvester Corp.
(£4500).is the co.’s other interest. This
concern is experimenting with a mechanical
cane-cutter. If results are successful, the
machine should be a godsend.
The coming crop at Babinda looks like
equalling last year’s figure, though else-
where tonnages may be lighter, thus
tending to maintain the price. A move-
ment is afoot to bring about a marked
reduction in growing costs and retail prices;
if sacrifices are made by both the labor
unions and the growers neither may be
much worse off. A cut of |d. per
pound in the retail price would mean
a drop of £4 13s. 4d. per ton to the
grower if it were all borne by him. And
though _ expenses have been reduced some-
what since the 1931 Sugar Committee gave
its report, the bare cost of producing
raw sugar was then estimated at £lB ss. a
ton, only Is. 6d. below last year’s average
return.
Whitefield, Ltd. (Sydney)
Re-
To Re- serves.
Rrollts , Dividends >, serves. £
March, £ Pref. Ord. £ £ 12,106
1929.. 21,479 8 p.c. 15 p.c. = 18,109 3370 15,476
1930.. 20,226 8 „ 15 ~ „ 20,192 6034 21,500
1931.. 8,292 4 „ Nil 3,200 5092 26,602
Loss.
1932.. 5,692 Nil Nil 20,910
This co. set up in 1923 to finance hire
agreements. Alfred S. White, the present
chairman, and also secretary of Australian
Cash Orders, was the promoter and sole
director for the first four years. It was a
clean float; £22,632 of share capital was
gathered in the first year at a cost of £BOO,
which was capitalised as goodwill. Easy
money and the popularity of credit granted
on the “pay as you earn” principle sent
turnover bounding along, thus enabling an
increasing amount of funds, including large
sums of borrowed money, to he kept con-
stantly employed. Also there were rich pick-
ings from trade discounts, and a favorable
experience so far as bad debts were concerned.
After payment of the pref. div., the ords.
got 15 p.c. for each of the first two years,
followed by 25 p.c. in ’26 and ’27, and then
15 p.c. again until the close of accounts in
1930. But little fat has been accumulated;
there was but £20.910 to visibly support
and assist £197,183 of capital, including
£BO,OOO of pref. money, at March 31.
The harvests were gathered largely from
scattered loan funds from overseas. But
the loans have ceased and hard times
are with us; hence bad debts have exceeded
expectations, and the granting of credit has
been restricted severely. The moratorium has
postponed the collection of many debts, irre-
spective of the debtors’ ability to pay, in-
terest has been scaled down by legislation,
and taxation has increased prodigiously.
Past performances, therefore, are not much
of a guide to the future.
For the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, gross earnings (£10,346) fell
away £16,452, making the slip £35,877 over
the last two years. Management charges
(£1823) and interest (£4704) were £2342
and £l7lB lighter respectively; but the tax
bill (£6971) was £2052 heavier; so, after
striking £7600 off the book value of securi-
ties as a provision against bad debts, etc., a
loss of £10,752 showed up. This was re-
duced to £5692 in the accounts by the trans-
fer of £5060 from the reserve for taxation,
leaving it at £2640, which is said to be
sufficient to cover assessments to March 31.
Both lots of shareholders went hungry, and
conditions are still too unsettled to form any
reliable idea of what the co.’s earning
capacity is likely to be in the future.
The quick growth of the business, the
extent to which the co. lias traded with
borrowed funds and other things are seen
in the next table: —
Paid Sundry
capital. Creditors. Advances, etc.
,1924.. £22,632 £13,106 £37,133
1925.. 46,477 20,225 71,263
1927.. 63,000 107,701 184,538
1928.. 141,879 124,572 286,033
1929.. 168,533 97,867 293,903
1930. . 192,472 113,805 342,797
1931.. 196,960 95,223 326,485
1932.. 197,183 73,113 293,845
Last year the book value of advances, etc.,
was reduced by, £32,649, and' £22.110 was
knocked off the outside debt. Thus the
more or less liquid surplus (£220,732)
slipped £10,530 during the twelvemonth. The
book value of advances, etc., could shrink
approximately 75 p.c. before any of the
creditors’ money would be in danger.
On the market 3s. is offered and 9s. is
asked for the pound ords. At the middle
price (65.) the return would be 8.3 p.c. on
a 6 p.c. div. basis. The prefs.—there are
80,000 of them, 8 p.c. cumulative* with
priority as to capital—have not an active
market. The book value of the net tangible
cover is 555. 3d. prefs., 225. ords.
Dudley and Dwyer, Ltd. (W.A.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1929.. 17,351 8 p.c. = 7201 10,150 6,051
Added preliminary exes, £614 .. 5,437
Profit’s suspense account, £12,264.. 17,701
Reserves disappear, £4773 . . . . 12,928
Loss.
1930.. 5,328 Nil 7,600
Forfeited share reserve, £2933 . . 10,533
Unexplained reduc. reserves, £1318.. 9,215
Profit.
1931.. 751 Nil 9,966
This co. set up in the real-estate and home-
building and -finance business at Perth in
1925. The boom was then in full swing,
rents and capital values were climbing; and
sales on extended terms were easily made.
The co. went into debt to finance exten-
sion of the business, and shareholders got
12£ p.c. for each of the first three years,
followed by 8 p.c. in 1925, when enough
profit was claimed to show 19.5 p.c. on aver-
age capital as against 22.1 p.c. and 15.5
p.c. in the two preceding terms.
Then slump clouded the outlook, property
and all other values fell sharply, sales and
collections became difficult, and financial-
emergency legislation imposed cuts of 22-?,
p.c. in mortgage rates and rents. Still",
much of what the co. has lost on the swings
from these cuts it has gained on the round-
abouts, and the moratorium, though it may
prevent collection of some instalments at
the moment, has staved off the evil effects
of wholesale foreclosures, and should help
to stabilise property values in the long run.
Thus, after crediting a profits suspense
account with £12,264, a loss of £5328 showed
up in 1930, and shareholders were passed by.
Last year gross earnings (£9346) fell
away £l4Bl, making the slip £23,029 over
the last two years ; but savings of over £5500
were made in administrative and other
charges (£8595, including £2lBB for bad
debts, etc.). Thus a profit of £751 was
claimed; it was not enough to pay a div.
That is disregarding £2933 added to the
forfeited share account (£3170) and an un-
explained reduction of £l3lB in other re-
serves, of which £1.0,864 were used to rub
out a like amount of preliminary exes, and
goodwill, leaving the p. and 1. balance at
£4577 on the wrong side. The “Wild Cat”'
has not treated the intangibles as assets
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:—
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931
Paid capital.. £77,539 £104,745 £122,978 £120,682
Mortgages .. 44,700 91,720 117,219 118,160
Overdraft .. 3,784 12,407 15,439 12.081
Sundry creditors 22,879 16,061 2,080 6,031
Freeholds .. 13,369 50,745 74,445 85,779
Plant and stock 6,982 8,281 4,614 1,734
Investments .. 381 613 6SI
Loans .. 123,377 163,401 182,759 175,799
Sundry debtors 7,428 14,111 5,195 2,584
Cash .. .. 631 1,241 25 501
Last year’s movements suggest that the
board has a large faith in the future. To
add £11,334 net to the book value of free-
holds an extra £1538 was tacked on to the
outside debt, raising it £5628 in excess o l '
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) at the end of December. The
more or less liquid surplus (£43,289) slipped
£10,575 during the twelvemonth.
Since the co.’s chief assets are loans on
mortgage and under contract of sale and
unsold land, its earnings and the prompt
payment of its own commitments depend
upon satisfactory sales and regular repay-
ments by purchasers. There are 173,340 £1
shares, of which 35,311 are fully paid and
the rest called to 12s. 6d. each. Each £1 of
paid capital is covered by net tangibles with
a book value of 21s. Id.
William Bedford, Ltd. (Melb.)
Net Trading Towards
Dec., Result. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1926.. 4042* 1266} 34,148
1927.. 1049} Nil 1049 33,099
1928.. 895- Nil 33,994
1929.. 22691 Nil 2269 31,725
1930.. 622* Nil 32,347
1931.. 4659* Nil 37,006
-Loss. fProfit. tHalf-year’s pref. div.
That table tells the gloomy story of condi-
tions in the hardware trade. When the co.
secured the Australian rights in a well-
known make of Dutch safes, etc., about
seven years ago, the name was changed from
Sturtevant and Bedford to Lips (Australia),
Ltd.; it-was altered to the present title in
1927 to remove any doubts as to the Aus-
tralian character of the organisation. The
public came in on the strength of a pros-
pectus that figured net profits at £19,500:
and paid capital became £102,023 in 48,550
8 p.c. cunt, prefs. and 53,467 ords. Good-
will figured at £25,935, and preliminary exes,
made off with a further £5905.
But estimates got askew from the jump.
Even during the boom in the building trade
small losses alternated with slender profits
from year to year, and shareholders have
gone hungry, except for the half-ration which
the prefs. got at the start. Moreover, when
the books last closed, £37,006 of the ord.
capital was represented by intangibles. That
is disregarding arrears of pref. divs., totalling
approximately £22,000; in the circumstances
it is too much for the prefs. to hope for
full payment of these- arrears.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:—
1927. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £101,999 £102,023 £102,023 £102,023
Mortgage .. 18,000 18,000 16,000 16,000
Overdraft .. 10,204 15,529 13,745 10,063
Sundry creditors 7,693 4,346 2,312 2,240
Freehold .. 36,210 37,051 37,054 37,054
Plant .. 18,427 17,589 15,801 14,224
Stocks . . 41,757 38,674 39,789 36,326
Book debts, etc. 8,276 14,654 8,848 5,617
Cash .. .. 128 206 241 97
Thus last year’s reduction of £6694 in the
hook value of stocks and debtors’ balances
enabled only £3754 to be knocked off the
amount coming to outsiders. The slip ini the
more or less liquid surplus (£13,737, includ-
ing stocks) was £3084.
There has been a slight revival of build-
ing activity in the. Southern State. Bui
whether the co. can develop dividend-paying
capacity remains to be seen; its history pro-
vides no peg on which to 'hang hopes. At
the end of December each pref. share was
represented by net tangibles with' a book
value of 265. 9d., of which 15s. 3d. was free-
hold ; ss. 10d., plant; ss. Sd., surplus liquids.
Marchant’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1920.. 5,220 7 p.c. = 4193 1027 6,448
1921.. 4,37 S 7 „ „ 4193 185 6,633
1922.. 8,096 7 „ ~ 5066 3030 9,663
1923.. 9,198 10 „ „ 7253 1945 11,608
Profit on property sale .. 734 12,342
1924.. 8,593 10 p.c. = 7253 1340 13.682
1925.. 8,040 10 „ „ 7253 787 14,469
1926.. 8,552 10 „ 7253 1299 15,768
1927.. 7,985 10 „ ~ 7253 732 16,500
1928.. 8,351 10 „ „ 7253 1098 17,598
1929.. 9,026 10 „ ~ 7253 1773 19,371
1930.. 10,403 10 „ „ 7253 3150 22,521
1931.. 5,215 8 „ „ 5802 21,934
1932.. 2,921 6 „ „ 4352 20,503
Soft-drinks are a luxury easily dispensed
with in hard times, and, of course, there is
fierce competition for the business available:
hence the pronounced drop in this eo.’s
profits over the last two years. However, at
tlm beginning of last month over two-thirds
of its £72,534 of capital was represented by
(Continued on page 16.)


the age old
SYMBOL
n
i
CELEBRATION
O F
mm
%
%
2
/?-
S
To the Feasting Hall
of Valhalla on the
white horses of the
Valkyries...
Up . . . up . . . up, on their fleet white steeds the
maiden cup-bearers of Valhalla bore off the
heroes who had fallen in the day’s battle, to the
feasting halls of after-life. There, Scandinavian
mythology relates, a company of warm-hearted
warriors waited to pledge and do them honour.
Toast followed toast. So, in eternal feasting and
good-fellowship the heroes passed their days.
The days of the Norsemen have
passed, but something of the signific-
ance of the white horse remains. No
less to-day is the white horse associ-
ated with celebration and good cheer.
For more than a century and a half,
since the sign of the White Horse first
swung outside the old Inn at Edin-
burgh, men have looked to it as a
symbol to guide them to companion-
ship and content.
White Ho
I IP SCOTCH
RSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
In handy half and quarter size
concave flasks as well as the
standard bottle
R
Ca
0
cz


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— AdVT.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice, Davies & Coi.lison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* # * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
THE YOUNGSTERS’ EDUCATION.—Isn’t the
future demanding - more and still more specialisation?
Don’t you hope and mean to give them a better
education than you had? But you don’t know how
things will be when the time comes. Why not
arrange a Children’s Educational Policy for each of
them now while they are little? It won’t cost so
much with the T. and G. Mutual Life Society. Ring
or call on the Manager. — Advt. [9
fixed deposits and a small amount of Com-
monwealth bonds, book debts, etc. Returns
from these sources provided most of the
£2921 netted last year, which was 4 p.c. on
capital as against 7.1, 14.3, 12.4, 11.5, 11>
11.8 and 11 p.c. back to 1925. Still, 6 p.c.
was distributed, and it is doubtfuL whether
anything better than that need be expected
for a while; indeed, trade will have to look
up if G p.c. is to be maintained.
Finances are healthy; and of recent years
substantial savings have followed improved
methods of manufacture and distribution
1924. 1927. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. £72,534 £72,534 £72,534 £72,534
Liabilities .. 4,322 1,652 4.050 1,970
Freeholds, buildings, „„ „„„ „„
etc .. 42,825 40,274 31,170 33,617
Plant etc" .. 23,027 26,526 14,142 11,067
Stocks . .. 13,330 13,129 9,591 8,069
Book debts and cash 21,359 20,511 50,222 48,605
Thus the more or . less liquid surplus
(£54,704) slipped £1029 last year Since
1927 the book value of plant, etc., has been
more than cut in halves, £15,459 more having
been written off than wags spent on the item.
The co. has a bright history. It set up 22
years ago with a capital of £08,507. Five
years later £21,393 of .bonus scrip was scat-
tered, freeholds and plant being written up
£11,444 for the purpose, and the div .was
dropped from 10 p.e. to 7 p.c. In 1922 a
par issue took capital to its present figure,
and a run of 10 p.c. divs. followed.
The pound shares are covered by 2os. bd.
in net tangibles, of which 15s. Id. is surplus
liquids. They seldom come on to the market.
Golden Plateau, N.L.
The new find near Theodore, on the
Cracow field (Q.),sent the £25 shares (there
are 100 of them) of Australian Gold De-
velopment, a Melbourne prospecting concern,
rocketing to over £4OO in the market last
week-end. The property, over which the co.
has a 12 months’ purchase option, comprises
two 10-acre leases on the plateau _ some
500 ft. above the township. The price is
£15,000 in scrip plus £20,000 cash—£ooo
down, a like amount in six months and the
balance on completion of the deal. A sub-
sidiary. Golden Plateau, N.L., has been
formed to take over and develop the show.
Nominal capital is £135,000 in 10s. shares,
of which 60,000 paids will be handed to
the parent and the vendors (Messrs. Mohr
and Ryan) in two equal parcels, and
150,000 were offered, Is. application and the
balance in Gd. calls as required. The other
GO,OOO shares are in pickle. The 150,000,
of which the parent’s shareholders had first
preference over 100,000, were quickly
snapped, and have sold as high as 7s. Gd.
on the market. Melbourne seldom baulks
at a mining spec, whose early appearances
look bright.
By costeening and trenching on the
western lease, T. R. Victor has disclosed a
large porphyry quartz formation of great
width, with an cast-west trend. A shallow
trench was dug for 150 ft. across the lode,
without disclosing the walls, assays varying
from ldwt. to sdwt. About 43 yards east
of the southern end of the trench a shaft
was sunk to 35ft. and two small crosscuts
made. Here values varied from lOdwt. to
over 4oz. per ton; a 3£-ton crushing yielded
141 oz. of smelted gold, with, it is reckoned,
another ounce in the sands. The metal
fetched £6 os. Sd. per ounce. About 2S
yards east of this again a richer patch was
struck in a small shaft down Bft. The gold
is very fine, and appears to be associated
with kaolin, which in turn is associated
with the quartz; some pieces of pure kaolin
carried very high values. (Incidentally,
the richest finds at Mt. Morgan were in the
kaolin.) To prove the property —and a
lot remains to be done before a true idea of
its value can bo had—Mr. Victor recom-
mends that the two shafts above referred to
be sunk to a depth of 100 ft., and then con-
nected by driving. The deepest shaft in
the neighborhood is 50ft. The Dawson
River, a permanent stream, is about eight
miles away. In his report on the field
some months ago, geologist G. H. Reid men-
tioned several deposits, apparently low-
grade, of great size. He added that, while
developed reserves were small, one show,
Lambert’s Discovery, had returned assays
of from 3oz. to 4oz. per ton. There was
about 600 tons of this grade in sight. Other
concerns on the field have returned varying
values.
Mount Isa
Julius Ivruttschnitt and his excellent staff
and workmen have won high praise from 11.
A. Guess, the managing genius of the Ameri-
can Smelting and Refining Co., who has just
concluded a visit to Mount Isa. According
to Mr. Guess, Mt. Isa is putting up a splen-
did fight to keep going with lead at the
lowest price in history. He frankly admitted
that revenue from the sale of bullion at the
present prices of lead and silver was not
sufficient to cover bare operating exes, at
the mine, and that is leaving interest on
debentures out of the reckoning altogether.
“It is to be hoped,” he said, that the
Queensland Government can see its way
clear at this critical juncture to ease sub-
stantially, through its railway freight rates
the burden of expenses for Isa, 40 p.c. ol
which are rail and ocean freights, and. thus
enable employment to continue uninter-
rupted and unreduced.” The interest bill
which Isa has to foot before shareholders
get a look in is approximately £160,000 p.a.
sterling. Unlike the Broken Hill cos., it
has had no opportunity of building up re-
serves*. It is obvious, therefore, that the
debenture interest to date has been paid out
of borrowed money. How long the co. can
carry on in this way depends on the kind-
ness of its friends, reduced operating costs
or a substantial rise in the prices . of lead
and silver. The present chaotic con-
dition of the world, with lead stocks
still on the increase, suggests that a sub-
stantial rise in metal prices cannot be looked
for in the near future. Though the manage-
ment is doing its best to reduce the per ton
cost of producing lead, and the additional
plant which is to bring production up to
5000 tons bullion per month will be in opera-
tion shortly, it is very doubtful whether the
savings will prove of much value to share-
holders, unless metal prices greatly improve.
Isa directly employs 1200 hands, and for the
11 months to the end of May had treated
404,958 tons of ore, from which slightly over
34,000 tons of silver-lead bullion had been
produced. This is shipped to England and
refined at Northfleet, on the Thames.
Mount Morgan, which has received its first
instalment of £15,000 under the Federal
Government scheme for relieving unemploy-
ment, set to work to recondition the old
mine on July 4. The £15,000 . is much less
than will be required to get things going on
an extensive scale, but further payments
may be granted later. The present grant
will be used to put the powerhouse and mill
in order, and for the mining and treatment
of 5000 tons of ore. About 60 new hands
have been engaged for the purpose. Also
laboratory research will be maintained,
special attention being given to the possi-
bility of cyaniding material once used to
fill the stopes. H. W. Gepp, who is acting
as adviser to the Queensland Government,
will watch the work, and make further
recommendations. The mining unions con-
cerned have promised to co-operate. They
were responsible for the closing down of the
mine in the first place, and consequent liquid-
ation of the old co. Improvements in modern
flotation have greatly reduced costs of. re-
cent years. When the old co. went into
liquidation, in 1927, 100 tons of ore made
25i tons of concentrates; the concentration
has now dropped . to 6 tons, an increase in
concentration ratio of more than 400 p.c.
The 6 tons contain the same gold and copper
value as the 25J tons used to.
*
During June Golden Surprise, North Arm
(Q.), opened up the Coolum reef, which at
present is 20iu. wide. The prospecting shaft
on the same ore body on the Golden Sur-
prise Extended was sunk a further 9ft.,
making a total of 32ft. to date. Here the
reef is from 15in. to 18in. wide, carrying
payable gold and silver values. The battery
is working 18 hours a day, and 22 men are
employed. Recent crushings show a profit
of nearly £7OO a month.
About six months ago gold was discov-
ered at Sunnyside, near Mackay (N.Q.),
and there are now about 30 prospectors on
the field. The best crushing to date was
put through at Charters Towers at the end
of June, when three tons 18cwt. of stone
yielded 420 z. of gold, or a fraction under
lloz. to the ton. Several, parcels of about
five tons remain to go through.
The sillimanite mentioned in B. 22/6/’32
is located 20 miles west of Broken Hill and
eight miles from the railway siding at Thak-
aringa. The outcrop is 200 ft. long and 20ft.
wide, and to the level of the surrounding
country it contains 12,000 tons of high-grade
mineral. Analysis by the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Mines shows 93.25 p.c. aluminium
silicate and a minor amount, of ilmenite.
Sillimanite melts at 3 Ssodeg. C., or 200 deg.
C- above the melting-point of quartz, to
which it is also superior in hardness. It is
used chiefly for sparking-plug insulators and
special heat-resisting porcelain. It is find-
ing a ready market at £lO-£l2 per ton on
trucks at Broken Hill.
* * * =!=
‘‘Calorie”: For many years the South
Aus. Department of Mines has been steadily
proving the tertiary brown-coal deposits in
many parts of the State. So far 1776 mil-
lion tons have been measured up within
a radius of 90 miles of Adelaide. The prin-
cipal deposits are at Anna (60 million tons),
Inkerman (42 million) and Clinton (32
million). The calorific value per pound of
dry coal averages 7SOO b.t.u’s.; the mois-
ture content is 55 p.c., and ash 10 p.c. The
immediate development of these large de-
posits is unlikely, because the principal seam
rarely exceeds 20ft. in thickness, and carries
90ft. to 400 ft. of overburden.
£ ❖
Prospectors have been giving the Moppa
goldfield, about three miles north-east of
Greenock (S. A us.), an overhaul, but noth-
ing really promising has been found. In
the past some fairly rich patches of alluvial
were won from the creekbeds, but recent
search has been disappointing. Chief hope
now lies in one of the three reefs on the
hillside developing into something worth
while. Thus far only specks have been
obtained down to 18ft. The gold appears
to be associated with kaolinised material
which occurs in pockets, all of which are
not gold-bearing.
* * # *
Titanium Products, Ltd., Fraser’s River
(Tas.), has completed the bridge across the
stream, but erection of the plant awaits com-
pletion of the road, a short concrete twin-
track now under construction. E. J. Brem-
ner, of Australian Cement, is supervising the
work. The proposed plant, which will have
a capacity of 100 tons per day, will con-
sist of a shaking screen and magnetic
machines. The machines are being designed
by C. W. Nash, a Melbourne metallurgist.
The market expects Boulder Perseverance
(W.A.) to return to the dividend list at an
early date, and to announce completion
of the new treatment plant, which is de-
signed to improve extraction and reduce
costs by several shillings a ton. Meanwhile
the row over the 10 p.e. profit-sharing notes
continues. Of the 50,000 £1 notes offered,
18,950 were subscribed at par. They are
repayable June 30, 1941, at a premium. of
20 p.c., the co. having the right to redeem
in whole or part after the end of June,
1936. Meantime holders are sitting tight
on the right they claim to have to 50 p.c.
of the annual profits. Shareholders who are
not noteholders are bucking at this. They
contend that as only £18,950 was subscribed
the participation in profits should be just
under nineteen-fiftieths of 50 p.c. of the
eo.’s annual profits. There is talk about the
Court being asked to settle the argument.
Meanwhile the notes are quoted at a pre-
mium of 350 p.c. on the market. This also
reflects the improved appearance of the mine
and the unexpected sterling gold premium,
which came into being two months after
the notes.
* * ❖ ❖
Wiluna has a note issue which is attract-
ing attention, too. This also is a 10 p.c.
one, totalling £350,000, and is repayable at a
premium of 20 p.c. at the end of Dec,, 1937,
or earlier upon six months’ notice. The
notes are convertible into shares at par until
Dec., 1935. Admirers of Wiluna reckon that
developments ancl returns will offer suffi-
cient inducement to noteholders to convert
long before that.
The market for shares of all cos. on the
Golden Mile has strengthened lately. Boul-
der’s shot up on reports of rich develop-
ments, an improved cash position and an-
nouncement of a 3d. div. South Kalgurli,
which began to advance some months ago,
touched their highest point for many years
on announcements of div. (Is. 6d.), bonus
(2s. 6d.) and return of capital (2s. 6d.).
Better returns and profits have given Lake
View a leg up, and further improvement is
expected. Encouraging developments and
expectations concerning the new plant have
cause Perseverance to harden, and Asso-
ciated improved on reports of higher earn-
ings, which led to fairly heavy buying in
London.
* * *
B. H. Prop, has decided to give Harry
Raven’s old King of tCreation at Erlistouu
a trial. In the old days K. of C. was styled
“Big Enough and Poor Enough.” But with
gold at 7s. per dwt. it may be a different-
proposition, especially in strong hands.
* * * *
Although the management was in capable
hands, the Princess Royal at Westonia
(W.A.) got into most of the difficulties that
can afflict a goldmine. At what appeared to
be the death knock the Sons of Gwalia
crowd was called in, and presently a bank
overdraft was transformed into a credit
balance, and the mine was looking better
than it ever did.
London directors of Lake View and Star
are urging mine-manager Thorn to bring his
ore output up to 40,000 tons monthly. The
figure lias already reached the 35,000 tons,
worth over £lOO,OOO iu Australian currency.
Oroville, the English co. which recently
acquired an interest in Bulolo Gold Dredg-
ing, made a profit of £38,830 for 1931. Its
two dredges, operating in Colombia, turned
over 3,750,000 c. yds., worth on the average
11 cents, at a cost of 8 cents per yard.
The dredging areas are now almost ex-
liausted, which probably helps to explain why
the co. became interested in Bulolo. Capi-
tal is £143,000 in 4s. shares, priced at Gs. in
London.
Some remarkable widths and assays are
reported from Karamea, in the north of
Westland (M.L.). The reef is said to be
gold-bearing for over 20ft. in width, and
shows good colors by simple panning for a
further 27ft. Samples from 12ft. of the find;
assayed £46 10s. per ton. At the southern
end, where the reef tapers to 10ft., a 50z..
per ton assay is reported. Bat the “Wild
Cat” has very little use for assays of gold-
ore simples, and generally suspects those,
who make a song about them.
“Jackamer”; A lot may depend upon the-
diameter of the steel used with rock drills.;
On a large South African mine, when'
the steel was reduced from ljin. to
sin., the footage drilled per machine per shift
increased from 90ft. to 130 ft.; steel break-
ages due to jambing were reduced from 9
per cent, to 4 per cent.; cost of forging was
reduced by 60 per cent., and first cost of steel
and maintenance of machines was halved.
There is plenty of room for under-
ground research of this type in our Austra-
lian mines, and the results therefrom may
be just as remarkable.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Any market for barium , and 'price per
ton ?— 463.
Do not know of any. There is a market
for some of the minerals of barium. For
instance, barytes of very good quality is
fetching £6 per ton delivered Sydney. It'
you can produce either the metal or the
mineral, communicate with Frank Ham-
bridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R. 8.; (1) Broadly, yes. (2) N.Z. Perpetual
Forests. It lias put all its cards on the table; it
has promised to financially assist bondholders in
marketing forest products, and has the funds to do
so. (3) No. Present co. took over business of
Forestry Co. of Australia Pty., in 1927... .W.E.H.;
(1) So far as the club is concerned, it is a paper
entry, entirely at discretion of the management. It
would be quite proper to include the estimated cost
of voluntary labor, offsetting- it on the other side
of the sheet by creation of a reserve. (2) Deprecia-
tion need be charged only on £350 plus any im-
provements. Amount to be written off depends on
the method adopted. Compounded at 3 p.c. p.a.,
£l9 16s. 4d, will amount to £350 in 14 years....
8.C.: (1) The price of gold in Australian currency
depends upon the exchange rate Australia/London
and London/New York. A rise in the firstnamed
rate, if not offset by a drop in the sterling/dollar
quotation, would mean a higher price for gold here.
(2) Hold for a while... .M.L.W.: (1) Yes; it is
still on the hunt for capital. (2) Don’t think so.
(3) If they carry any uncalled liability they would
be very difficult to sell at the moment. They have
no open market; write to the secretary and ask
if he can find a buyer for y0u.... Dups: Cost of
development likely to stand in the way of dis-
tributions for a while; but worth watching....
Battler: (1) and (2) Not unless old co. goes into
liquidation for purpose. If the change is merely
one of title, it does not affect existing contracts.
(3) Yes, subject to any provisions there may be in
the-articles. (4) Unless existing shareholders offered
to buy the scrip at a reasonable figure, it is
doubtful whether refusal to transfer would be valid.
. ...Looite: There is no open market for the bonds;
write to the secretary and ask if he can find a
buyer... .E.R.8.: Bulolo Gold Dredging: head office,
Sydney. New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd.: head office,
Sydney. Guinea Gold: head office, Brookman Build-
ings, Grenfell-street, Adelaide... .J.H.O’N.: At the
moment good profits are to be won from soundly-
financed and well-managed farms, provided the soil,
climate and quality of leaf, etc., are right. As
for future, chief dangers lie in overcapitalisation
and overproduction, as New Zealand and S’African
experience shows. See “Wild Oat” columns B.
15/7/’3l and B. 29/C/’32.
General View of The Macleod Gallery.
Visit the Australian Art Exhibition, the Macleod Gallery, Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street, Sydney. Selected works by all the best-known
Australian Artists for sale.


Mining Machinery
■ . a
IS
■PTv-.-
■H&
;
HB§S*BSl
i
KM
»
I
V'.?'
H
m u
m
HMi
HH|
■HH
■
I
One of Four Ball Mills recently made and supplied by us to THE LAKE VIEW
AND STAR, LTD., KALGOORLIE.
Weight: 22 tons without Ball Load, which weighs tons.
We are the principal Mining Machinery Contractors in Australia, and during the
past few years we have supplied ALL the Primary Crushing and Grinding Units
that have been made in Australia. This includes 37 Ball and Tube Mills, and, in
addition to Two Mills for the Mount Coolon Gold Mines, we are now making for
THE MOUNT LYELL MINING AND RAILWAY CO., LTD., the largest Ball
Mill ever constructed in the Southern Hemisphere.
This Mill will weigh 72 tons without the Ball Load of 30 tons.
FEEDERS
CRUSHERS
SCREENS
BALL MILLS
(Grate, Overflow or Conical)
or
STAMP
BATTERIES
RAKE CLASSIFIERS
MECHANICAL THICKENERS
“Fahrenwald”
FLOTATION
MACHINERY
(Patented, Sole Aust. License to
Manufacture)
“CR”
MANGANESE and
CHROME STEEL
WEARING PARTS
FOR ALL MAKES
O F MACHINES.
THE “WILFLEY” CENTRIFUGAL
SAND AND SLIME PUMP (Patented),
used in every large Milling Plant in
Australia.
Low Operating Cost
Extra Heavy Parts
Ball-bearings Throughout
NO Gland or Stuffing Box
We are the Sole Manufacturers for
Australia and carry full stocks of Pumps
and Parts.
¥3
1
t i. "
■
mm
m
HIhI
#iISIBP® !i * i^^
A 4in. “Wilfley” Pump opened up showing
facilities for very quick change of parts.
To MINE MANAGERS AND PROSPECTORS:
Our Mining and Metallurgical Engineering Staff will be glad to assist you in advising and equipping any
genuine Mining Propositions that you may have. Please send us full particulars.
CHARLES RUWOLT PROPRIETARY LIMITED
Victoria Street, Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.
TELEGRAMS: RUWOLT, MELBOURNE.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Bitter Sweet
Criterion “Happy and Glorious”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Grand Opera
King’s “Madame Plays Nap”
State Movies and Talkies
*
When a world-famous tragedienne is hold-
ing a season she has to play in plays. She
can’t suddenly turn out as a ballerina and
indulge in adagio dancing or walk a tightrope
in short skirts or go in for sword-swallow-
ing or ventriloquism. This appears to be the
principal justification for the production ol
“Madame Plays Nap” at Melbourne Kings
on Saturday. “Madame Plays Nap” is a play,
inasmuch as it is divided into three acts and
there are characters in it, if somewhat un-
real ones, and there is a plot; but any more
complete reversal of dramatic form from
Shaw’s “St. Joan” than Brenda Girvan
and Monica Cozens’s romantic costume
comedy could hardly be imagined. If John
Longstaff suddenly took to comic strip draw-
ing or Max Meldrum to stitching woolwork
pictures they would be performing the same
sort of artistic somersault. However, more
latitude is allowed to the stage, which has
standards of its own or no standards at all,
according to the way you look at it. Dame
Thorndike appeared as Henriette de Beau-
vais, an aristocrat driven in the first act
to pawnbroking. Here she meets Napoleon
Bonaparte, an impecunious captain of artil-
lery. In the second act she is a lady of the
Emperor Napoleon’s court whose virtuous
attachment to her husband is such an affront
to the other members of the aristocracy
that they take complicated measures to
destroy her reputation. In the last act there
is a trial scene, as there is in “St. .1
but whereas the trial scene in “St. Joan”
suggests a real trial with real human beings
in it, the one in “Madame Plays Nap
merely suggests that Brenda Girvan and
Monica Cozens never met a human being out-
side the pages of the “Family Herald.
Needless to say, Madame de Beauvais’s virtue
is triumphantly vindicated and the Emperor
Napoleon, w T ho has had his right hand
thrust into his waistcoat throughout the
evening, according to historical precedent,
takes it out and pinches the lady's ear, also
according to precedent. Dame Sybil is an
actress who believes in acting, and she worked
hard with voice and gesture to make Madame
de Beauvais less like a theatrical stereotype
than her creators left her. Nevertheless, it
was a forced performance. Dressed in the
costumes of the period, Zillah Carter, Hilda
Davies, Phyllis Best, Bruce Winstone,
Norman Shelley, Michael Martin-Harvey,
Lewis Casson and others presented a gay
appearance.
# * #
At Sydney Cri. on Saturday night Mar-
garet Rawlings and Barry K. Barnes,
assisted slightly by one or two other mem-
bers of their co., presented “Happy and
Glorious,” by Wilfred Walter. Production
was in the hands of Gabriel Toyne. The
play, which contains three acts and fifteen
scenes, deals, or purports to deal, with the
spirit of the age. It opens in pre-war
times. Miss Rawlings, programmed as She,
and Mr. Barnes, referred to as He, are
having a picnic on the Sussex Downs.
Scenery consists of a backcloth divided by
bold black curved lines into patches of pink,
purple and blue, and a floorcloth represent-
ing enormous yellow flowers on a green
ground. It is gathered that these are sup-
posed to be buttercups. A lark is men-
tioned, .but that has to be imagined. Non-
existent gingerbeer in real stone bottles is
brought from a real basket. “She” is an
ardent advocate of woman’s right to vote,
and looks forward with gloomy exaltation to
martyrdom in the great cause. Martyrdom
comes. In a series of silhouette scenes She
is seen exhorting an invisible but audible
crowd, which throws stones at her, breaking
a shop window which isn’t there, and lying
in a cot in a prison, having been brought
to death’s door by refusing food for five.days.
She escapes the ordeal of forcible feeding.
In the next act the Great War is proceed-
ing. She is hysterically anti-war. He joins
Kitchener’s Army. He is shown in the
trenches, suffering from delusions; is shot,
and returns to civilian life partially blinded
and a bad case of shellshock. Getting em-
ployment as a draper’s assistant, he strangles
a customer who isn’t there for saying she
hates the Germans, and is sent to an asylum,
being later released. “She” goes into a tea-
shop, where her proud rebellious spirit suffers
excruciating agonies. Working for a living
seems to have a very bad effect on "both char-
acters. In the last scene they meet once
again on Sussex Downs with its mammoth
buttercups and imaginary lark. .She turns
upon her half-demented companion,; goads
him into attempting to strike her; whacks
him in the eye and restores both his
sight and his sanity. Curtain falls while
mauve wheels projected by a magic lantern
revolve dizzily all over the backcloth, to
suggest that the world is getting back to
peaceful industry.
The simplicity of the settings assists the
development of the play, but no amount of
economy of line or concentration of drama-
tic interest could make it other than dis-
jointed and chaotic. If it is intended as a
sermon, the text and the peroration are
lost upon the plain person. If it is intended
as realism —one of the scenes, which details
the conversation of an Australian and a
Scot in a dug-out on the lines of the un-
pleasantest passages in “All Quiet,” gives
color to the notion—it fails, because of the
abnormal neuroticism of the principal char-
acters. If it is meant to be just an enter-
tainment —well, the box-office should be able,
after a few nights, to finish that sentence
conclusively.
Miss Rawlings contributes a few isolated
patches of dramatic intensity, but her voice
grows monotonous. It is all in one key, and
lias the same effect after a while that the
Mass in B Flat had on Huneker’s Jew. She
always seems to be expressing a superior
person’s infinite loathing of life. All Mr.
Barnes’s intelligence and vivacity cannot
give a complete outline to the character of
“lie.” Shellshocked mentalities don’t fit
into any rational equation.
The piece is preceded by a ballet, “Busi-
ness d la Russo,” bright enough in concep-
tion, and prettily danced. The music, by
Tom King, who hails from Adelaide, is
Offenbachian in its cheerfulness.
* * *
Up to date, grand opera looks like a pro-
fitable business at Melbourne Royal.
“Lucia” is a shoddy piece of work drama-
tically. Each act is exactly like the others
and works up to a climax designed to show
off a pampered prima donna to the best
advantage. With Lina Paliughi as that
favored lady, the Donizetti work roused
audiences last week to what the daily papers
call a frenzy of enthusiasm. It is doubtful
if grander head notes have ever been heard in
Melbourne, and the head notes were at their
grandest when the lady was supposed to
have gone off her head and hadn’t any head
to put the notes in, so to speak; but that sort
of inconsistency doesn’t matter in an opera
like “Lucia.” “Boh&me” was another brilliant
performance, vocally, histrionically and
orchestrally, though in the first act the
musicians drowned tenor Alfieri in a butt
of harmony. Cesarina Valobra made a very
short Mimi with an exquisite voice, especi-
ally in the mezzo division. Australian Car-
mencita Mascagni acted delightfully as
Musette, though she faltered in her singing.
Previous holders of the portfolio have had
more, powerful vocal organs. Conductor
Rossi, appeared on the platform after every
curtain and the tails of most of the songs
got entangled in the audience’s apprecia-
tion. The repertoire is so popular and so
familiar that it might be a good idea to
turn the season into a community sing-song.
* * *
At Melb. Palace Nellie Bramley has talked
her way through to a 15th week and looks
likely to go on for ever. Although no hams,
chocolates, bottles of beer, teddy bears and
boxes of lingerie find their way over the
footlights to the several leads of her company
after the performance, as they used to eight
years ago, appreciation is shown by the
audience at their exit. Theatregoers all
a-bubble with appreciation as they stream
out into the street 'is a unique spectacle in
Melbourne nowadays. In fact, Nellie’s fol-
lowers emerge from
the Palace in the
mood that audiences
usually enter a the-
atre but seldom
leave it. This
amazing circum-
stance may be die;
lo Miss* Bramley’s
unconventional way
of doing things.
None of her people
are orthodox. The
hero is fat and
silly, the business
man skinny and
mean, the fool in-
telligent and the
villain likeable,
and the loved and
leading lady is
always Nellie do-
ing something diffe-
rent or saying the
same old thing in
“just her way.”
“When Wives
Walk Out” last
week gave all the
company a chance
to do their best.
Though not exactly
reeking with pro-
found psychology,
the play is full of
simple observations.
John Kiernan, its
author, has obvi-
ously taken a lot
from real life.
There was a packed house to survey “Paddy,
the Next Best Thing,” on Saturday.
*£• *
If the first principle of the drama is to
entertain, “Rope,” by Patrick Hamilton, as
presented by the Little Theatre, Melbourne,
must be rated 100 p.e. From the moment the
curtain goes up on a darkened stage and
audience becomes aware that it has .just
missed being witness to a bizarre and some-
what fantastic murder, to the final denoue-
ment in Act iii, the dialogue, plot and
action move without a pause. Wyndham
Brandon and Charles Granillo are two young
Oxford degenerates who find life so attenu-
ated that they resort to the extreme
measure of committing a bloodless, passion-
less, motiveless crime—a murder of the in-
tellect—-in order to obtain the stimulus their
less intellectual fellows get from football or
the talkies. Then, to lend an added piquancy
to the affair, they invite, the father and aunt
of the victim, a flapper, her male counter-
part and-a poet .to" partake of supper from
the top of the chest in which the body has
been hidden. In the capable hands of Breti;
Randall, the poet Rupert Cade! is respon-
sible for a steady Supply of amusing cynicism
and the eventual collapse of the two young
assassins. Judy Finch, as a society belle,
Max Collars, as the young man, and William
Devine, as the old father, afforded excellent
support to the leading characters. Paul
Hill, as the, young neurotic. Granillo, gave a
- first-rate, performance; and Hal Percy, as
Brandon. the'Svehgali of the crime, though
perhaps n trifle obvious in some scenes, rose
to a n. ;h peak of acting in the final ten
minutes, when he tries, unavailingly, to jus-
tify his sadism to the no longer cynical
Rupert Cad el. Catherine Boyce, as Mrs.
Debenham, and Donovan Joyce, as the man-
servant, were up to the high standard of the
others. A good show all round.
* # *
After announcing a modest single concert
at Melb. Town Hall, John Brownlee gave
two more last week and is billed for a fur-
ther brace this weekj with possibly more
to follow. In between, he revisited Geelong
and gave his fellow-natives a further taste
of his quality. The popular singer of almost
everything in a vocalist’s curriculum is at
his best in German lieder. The austere
surroundings of the civic hall are not kind
to a singer of Italian opera, especially when
that singer puts less than the conventional
amount of heart throb and passion into his
singing and omits to cloak his honest Aus-
tralian countenance with greasepaint.
# * *
Doris Fitton’s Independent' Theatre co.,
Sydney, replaced “The Constant Nymph”
with. Noel Coward’s “The Young- Idea.”
The scene is laid in the English coun-
try home of George Brent (Bruce
Bennett-Smith), a gentleman with no
marked interest in anything but hunt-
ing, which enables his second wife, Cicely
(Freda McGhee), to conduct a series of
flirtations under her husband’s nose. Her
affair with Roddy Masters (Kenrick Hud-
son), is so brazen that eyen George protests.
Cicely loses her temper when George con-
fesses that he has long ceased to love her, and
adds frequent references to his first wife,
Jennifer (Winifred Heath Green), whom he
divorced. At this point George’s (and
Jennifer’s) children, Gerda (Grace Hart)
and Sholto (James Pratt), arrive to
spend a holiday. The precocious pair have
been living with their mother on the Con-
tinent. They take in the situation at a
glance, and further their plans for re-
uniting their father and mother by con-
tinual mention of Jennifer’s loneliness. Cicely
bolts with Roddy, and the conspirators
return to their mother’s villa in Italy, with
a half-reluctant George trailing after them
—to find that Jennifer has become engaged
to Hiram J. Walkin (Albert Collins). Gerda
and Sholto deal with this obstacle by assur-
ing him that ma is a grass widow whose
husband is in a mental home. Hiram fades
out, and George and Jennifer agree to
set up house together again. The charac-
ters are a fairly stereotyped collection, but
the situations are humorous and the clown-
ing of the youngsters excellent. Grace Hart,
alternately appealing and pert; James Pratt,
boyish and sophisticated by turns; Freda
McGhee, as dependable as ever; Bruce Ben-
nett-Smith, Kenrick Hudson, Albert Col-
lins, Kitty Horne, Rosalind Spence and
Winifred Heath Green did the thing well.
# # *
Dulcie Deamer saw a successful perform-
ance of her first three-acter, “The Lucid
Interval,” at the Tom Thumb Theatrette,
Sydney. The first two acts are dated 30
years in the future, and contain a number of
hectic characters, all of whom are blotted
out by Nirvana gas, a new device for anni-
Margaret Rawlings and Barry K. Barnes in “Happy and Glorious.”
hilating tlie race. The last act depicts their
reincarnation, 70 years later, on a peaceful
mountain side. The playwright spoke a
few words of praise about actor-producer,
Charles Cunnington, after the show.
* * *
Mo’s in ’is Ist. 7 nts. at Melb. Tiv. .
# * *
Szigeti started his Adelaide season to
an audience more, enthusiastic than numer-
ous. Madge Elliott and Cyril Ritcliard,
mellowed and improved by London experi-
ence, are in “Blue Roses” at the Royal.
Jolly music for the not-over-strong voices,
agile dancing and funny dialogue, to which
is added horseplay that seems popular.
¥ ¥ *
Adelaide Repertory finds its short-play
evenings, a mere side-line, so unexpectedly
popular that each will have to be given
twice. These one-acters, beginning as an
extra attraction on lecture nights, and an
informal trial for new aspirants, have now
ousted the lectures altogether; and, since
the Rep. decided that cash could not buy
admission to them, its membership has soared
to nearly 1000. A packed house saw
Basil Harford’s fine work hold together a
cx-owd of clever juniors in Barrie’s grimly
funny “Shall We Join the Ladies?” Else-
where Hunter-Watts, a new recruit, brought
in valuable stage experience.
* # *
Moiseiwitsch, last heard in Brisbane nine
years ago, has been at His Majesty’s, where
he made his biggest hit with a rousing per-
formance of the “Tannhauser” overture. The
second concert was broadcast.
« « V
Following Moiseiwitsch, whom the Taits
will deposit on the platform of Sydney Town
Hall to-morrow night, Hugo Larsen will pro-
duce violinist Josef Szigeti, who will stand
in front of the Great Organ on the 28th.
The Hungarian fiddler has a liking for
modern music, and will include in his pro-
grammes compositions by Stravinsky, Ysaye,
Achron and Milhaud. A Russian prince
will manipulate the piano. Szigeti, who
rhymes with Betty, speaks many languages,
including American, and plays on a Guar-
narius valued at 278,200 pengo (at par).
#
Dr. T. D. Campbell and Alec Symons,
both members of the board of Adelaide
Repertory Theatre, have joined forces to con-
struct a light opera, “The Moon Dream,”
which will be played by S.A. Operatic
Society at the end of the year. Campbell,
who i s a l S o a University anthropologist, has
written other music, and Symons lias had
two or three plays produced by the Rep.
SHADOW SHOWS.
The Creator obviously meant many of His
more or less articulate creatures to keep
their mouths shut. Ballet-dancers, peacocks,
some women and many writers and artists
suggest themselves, offhand, as being in this
category. Charlie Chaplin is worth over a
million sterling to-day because he has done it
all his screen life. “Th,e Passionate
Plumber,” at Sydney Capitol, stresses the
truth anew. It has a promising title for a
bedroom farce, and the plot offers plenty of
openings for comic situations. Irene Purcell,
looking even more seductive than she did in
“The Man in Possession,” wants to be pro-
tected from the advances of Gilbert Roland,
a gigolo, to whom she is attracted by the
baser elements in her nature. She gives a
stray plumber the job of heading her admirer
off. Buster Keaton plays tlie plumber.
While he is silent he is as funny as any-
one could be in the circumstances; he is
one of the world’s great pantomimists. But
as soon as he speaks he spoils it all; Mr.
Lang produced the same effect on this critic
at his Moore Park meeting which was, im-
pressive till he was heard above the cheers.
His voice isn’t Bight, anyhow; and neither
is Mr. Keaton’s. The situation isn’t improved
by the presence of Jimmy Durante and Polly
Moran. They have to grab their laughs
where they can, and they don’t find many.
Pictures like this make one realise the vir-
tuosity of “City Lights,” in which one
lunatic stunt follows another in quick suc-
cession. “The Passionate Plumber” is very
dull on the whole, though it has a few
bright spots. For example, the duel on the
outskirts of Paris, in which Keaton gets a
chance to register wooden imbecility, while
Durante tries with ingratiating smiles to win
the approval of the disdainful aristos in top-
hats who are there to attend to the destruc-
tion of his deplorable friend. There is a
crockery-throwing act towards the end which
symbolises the whole show-—it is violent,
unoriginal, noisy and expensive.
¥ #
Loonies are to the fore at Sydney Regent
this week. One is homicidal, the other
merely imbecile. In “Almost Married”
Allan Dinehart is a deranged musician whose
wife, Violet Heming, wisely leaves him. In
Red Russia she meets Ralph Bellamy, who
marries her to save her from the O.G.P.U.
And now Rinehart reads in his asylum of
the marriage and escapes. He gets in some
very dirty work before he is laid by the
heels. The film is full of technical bloomers,
and the close-ups of the maniac in action
are ghastly; but then the thing has clearly
been concocted for those who like their hor-
rors in the raw, so to speak, and don’t worry
about bloomers.
In the other picture, which is Para-
mount’s “The Misleading Lady,” the zany
who is supposed to be funny doesn’t material-
ise till late, which is a blessing. The
damsel who does the misleading is Claudette
Colbert. She snares a proposal, under false
pretences, from Edmund Lowe, a woman-
hating explorer, and he is so annoyed that
he carries her off in a helicopter to the
mountains. While her taming is proceeding
on vigorous lines the mentally-afflicted one
arrives; likewise a brace of drunks, a jealous
lover and a news-hunting reporter. And
so Lurv comes into its own. The acting
is a lot better than the story.
* *
“Sunshine Susie,” British Gainsborough’s
latest, opened at Melbourne Athenaeum last:
week. It deals with an old theme—the girl
who falls in love with the bank clerk only
to discover he is the Herr director —in a
fresh way. The camera’ man is given his
proper place as master of the ceremonies
and takes charge from the first. The music,
written by a German after the film was cut.
follows the action, which takes place in
Vienna, with comic or dramatic effect as
required. It is not Wagnerian, but it is
used as Wagner would have used it if he
had written that sort of music; and there
are some amusing ideas, as -when the typists
in the bank break into a march on their
machines when the Herr director walks
through the room. Renate Muller, a clever
little girl who betrays her nationality only
by an occasional misuse of the latter “W,"
.Tack Hulbert, a first-class comedian, and
Owen Nares, a satisfactorily ardent lover,
are the principals.
¥ ¥
Sydney H'aymarket was crammed with
small-bov acolytes to hallelujah the second
coming of Tom Mix in “Destry Rides
Again.” Nor did their idol disappoint. Act-
ing with considerably less intelligence than
his horse, he foils the bone-headed scoun-
drels who hold up his mailcoach; shows
school children how to shoot during play-
time, and in between times lets Claudia Dell
make maidenly love to him. Comes a black
moment when the villainous Trent, mas
querading as his best friend, gets him con-
victed of manslaughter. He takes his sen-
tence stoically, but, emerging a year later,
proves the mettle of his pasture by dealing
it out on truly Mixian lines to those who
gave false evidence against him. Follows
the gory reckoning with the head villain,
amidst bloodthirsty yells of approval from
the kids mentioned above, and the placing
of the final hammerlock or stranglehold on
Claudia. Universal was the resurrectionist.
* # *
“But the Flesh is Weak” at Sydney State
is an M.-G.-M. version of Novello’s “The
Truth Game.” Sydneyites who saw the play
last January will hardly recognise it. It is
more audacious in its nerw form; also
slightly more banal. Penniless Robert Mont-
gomery sets out to capture Nora Gregor,
who he thinks is a wealthy widow'. After
wanning her he finds she is on the rocks.
Still he means to go through with it until
his father, C. Aubrey Smith, an ageing
woman-chaser and gambler, introduces a
fresh complication. The lovers are tempor-
arily separated, but come together again
when the old man snares a menaged dow-
ager. Nora Gregor looks like a screen find,
and the picture is fairly satisfying as an
entertainment if one can swallow Mr. Mont-
gomery’s poisonous ways with the ladies,
and the implication that members of the
British aristocracy who make successes of
their lives are cadgers and swindlers.


THE SOAP-BOX
An attempt to answer some of the questions asked by correspondents.
Women in Politics
In “Women in Politics” ( B. 22/6/’32)
you say, “Are they [women, candidates\
going to put themselves forward as women
seeking the good of women and children, or
as citizens without regard to sex?” 1 main-
tain that the problems affecting the welfare
of men and women are so intermingled that
yon can't neglect one without affecting the
other seriously. What arc masculine pro-
blems? Western land leases? Mum and
Edna suffer more than Dad and Dave when
ruin, is the order of the day. The gold
standard? Women are as interested as men,
although some of them may not know it;
and they will be affected first and most
severely should the wrong policy be adopted,
And what arc women?s interests? Babies, and
a higher obstetrical standard? But is not
masculine welfare bound up in these pro-
blems also? Are men not husbands and
fathers? — Tails Up (N.S.W.).
Therefore surely, as The Bulletin sug-
gested, women candidates should put them-
selves forward not as women, but as citi-
zens. Women are interested, in the problems
that face men; therefore this paper believes
they make a mistake when they submit
themselves as interested mainly in babies and
obstetrics. It is all right for them to claim
special knowledge on those matters, just
as Mr. Stevens, the N.S.W. Treasurer, can
claim special knowledge of Treasury
Mccouuts, because he was formerly a high
Treasury official,; but the point this paper
makes is that women ought to come forward
as citizens and as much interested in all
problems as men are.
Exchange and the Government
Dried-fruit, prices arc approximately MB
per ton better due to exchange. The grower
gets this money. In one small district, dur-
ing the slump in prices the growers were
hopelessly in arrears with water rates, land-
purchase instalments, shire rates, etc. This
gear the increased price on their crop of
3000 tons means £30,000 to the growers.
This month record collections of rales were
made at the Water Commission office,
amounting to £BOOO. In almost every case
the growers met their land payments to the
Grown, and, in addition, paid sums varying
from £5O to £3OO off their arrears of
charges. The exchange premium is in the
main returning to the Government, to hick
receives payment for debts which it would
otherwise have had to either hold up indefi-
nitely, or write off as bad. Don’t, you think
that is an advantage? —P. J. B. (Vic.).
Of course it is an advantage. Book-
makers in some places have to pay a tax on
their turnover. When a clerk robs a bank
and goes to the races and plays up the
proceeds of the robbery with the "books,”
the Crown revenue benefits. But this would
hardly justify us in regarding the robbery
of banks by clerks as a desirable thing.
Foreign Loans
■ Every few weeks, whenever we begin to
feel a bit better, somebody in the papers
talks about being presently able to borrow
more money abroad, and everybody seems
to think it would be a good thing. 1 notice
that even The Bulletin has not denounced
it. If it has been such a bad thing in the
past, why would it be a good thing now ?—
Rector (Q.).
The Bulletin hasn’t suggested that bor-
rowing abroad is never justified. In 1910-13,
for example, when Australian borrowing was
far too great, this paper repeatedly warned
the country against using up its credit,
because it soon might have to fight for its
life arid then it would siriipiy have to borrow
overseas or cave in. Foreign borrowing is
thus sometimes compulsory. Even without
war Australia may have to borrow overseas
to. pay off loans which present holders refuse
to renew ; and it may have to borrow abroad to
carry us through the present transition period.
It isn’t always possible to leave , off drink
in a day. But, generally, overseas borrow-
ing is the worst borrowing. Lately we were
able to make a great saving in interest by a
conversion scheme. Actually (except in the
case of tax-free issues) it wasn’t necessary
to do any shady work to get the loan
converted. If w T e were paying too much
interest, nil we had to do was to tax the
holder. This, however, is only possible, in
the case of a domestic loan. An overseas
loan may have been issued at 6 p.c. and may
be now honestly worth only 4 p.c.; but the
oversea holder cannot be reached by a
“persuasive” tax.
Old-age Pensions
. You refer repeatedly to the high cost of
old-age pensions, and have quoted the Com-
monwealth Auditor-General in support; he
says o.a.p.’s are better off now than at
any time for 20 years. Could you live on
the maximum (17 s. 6 d.), or less as you
propose making it?- —Zero (N.S.W.).
We don’t want to have to try. The
Bulletin hasn’t complained of the size of
the pensions; what it does complain of is
the size of the total pension bill, due to
the neglect of tens of thousands of rich and
comparatively well-to-do people to take care
of their old, indigent relations—especially
fathers and mothers. It is certain that in
very many cases parents have handed over
their property to sons and daughters in order
to qualify for the 0.a.p., the o.a.p, being
thereafter thrown into the family pool. Even
if there were none of this, The Bulletin
greatly doubts the wisdom of making the
o.a.p. high enough to allow a man to look
forward with' satisfaction to the time when
he will get it. That feeling is all very well
for a man within a few years of the neces-
sary age and no longer capable of making
any provision for his own later years; but
for younger men the o.a.p. should be made
to look so> bleak as to be entirely unattrac-
tive.
Exchange and Inflation
You say. “Let us call it [ exchange ] by
its proper name, inflation,” with which I
fully agree. Blit what I want to know is,,
why is an exchange which is beneficial to
the primary producer inflation any more than
a tariff which .is beneficial to other sec-
tions? Millions of pounds have been ex-
tracted, from primary industries to bolster up
secondary industries in the past, IT hy not
now reverse the order till primary indus-
try recovers? — Through the Mitt (W.A.).
In the first place The Bulletin didn’t
call exchange inflation. What it did call
inflation was the artificial raising of the
rate and its maintenance at a higher figure
than supply and demand would fix. But
let that pass. Secondary industry, it seems,
has robbed primary industry of millions
through the tariff. Now it is suggested that
the process should be reversed —-that second-
ary industry should be robbed till the other
recovers. But you can’t get at secondary
industries through exchange. . What ex-
change does is to enormously increase the
tariff against imports and thus make it easier
for the secondary industries to plunder the
primary industries if they want to.
Farm Costs and Prices
I am a small mixed farmer, getting so
little for my eggs, butter and few fat
sheep that it is almost impossible for us
to carry on, How is the further lowering
of production costs going to benefit me?
Will it not further depress prices? Andl to
depress prices will certainly wipe me right
out, —P. T. S. (S.A.).
The costs which “P.T.S.” has .to bear are
not merely those on the farm: they include
also freight and distribution charges, which
are exceedingly high in Australia. The re-
duction of costs certainly will enable the
producer to sell for less; but that doesn’t
mean he will be worse off. “P.T.S.” has 10
customers for eggs; each of them pays him
Is. a dozen for 2 doz. per week. But two
of the customers are superfluous hands on
a railway which carts “P.T.S.’s” goods ; and
“P.T.S.” has to pay, say, 2s. a week of the
wages of these men. If those two men were
got rid of, “P.T.S.” would be as well off
if he could sell his eggs for 9M. per dozen
instead of the, old Is. The great trouble
with the farmers of Australia, and especi-
ally the srriall mixed farmers, is that they
have to carry twice as many middlemen and
distributors on their backs as could com-
fortably do the work. And they have to pay
the. rent of twice too many shops and the
upkeep and repair of twice too many carts.
The Governor and the People .
Tell me, does The Bulletin still think
Sir Philip Game did not pursue] the abso-
lutely right course in dealing With the ex'-
Premier of N. E. Wales? Had The Bulle-
tin’s suggestions been followed and an
earfier .election' held, would there not have
been far greater chance
of Lang's return? —
Castlereagh ' (Tas.).
The question that must
be answered has not been
answered. Lang was dis-
missed because he deli-
berately set out and in-
structed others to set out
to disobey the law. That
does not touch the other
point: Has or has not a
Governor the right to
send his Ministers to the
country if he lias strong
grounds for believing that
they are out of step with
the people? The Con-
stitutional claptrap is
that the Governor must
accept the advice of his
Ministers. But must he?
Must ho do as they bid
him suppose they bid
him fly the Red flag over
Government House? The
Governor must have some
authority still; and it is
of the utmost importance
that it should be settled
whether that authority
includes the right to send
his Ministers to the
people when lie doubts
whether they represent,
the majority. And more
than the right: whether
he is not under an obli-
gation to so send them—
assuming, of course, th ’t
what they propose to do
is a matter of great im-
portance. If he hasn’t
that right, and if he is
not under that obligation,
then other steps must be
taken to protect the
people and secure to
them the right \of elec-
tion. A development of
the referendum, in the
shape of a recall, would
serve the purpose.
Economic Systems
You quote instances of
the brutal conditions ex-
isting up to 1846, with
the object. I assume, of
showing by comparison
the advance society has
since made. But since
1846 the capacity to pro-
duce has increased, 50-
fold, lienee every vestige
of those old ■ horrors
should long since have
disappeared: yet children
who feed from rubbish-
tins aren't , much better
off, all . said and done.
The ultimate collapse of
our present economic sys-
tem is inevitable. Why
not use your powerful
influence to hasten its
coming ?— J. Hyatt (Q.).
For one reason, be-
cause we can’t see any-
thing better to put in its
place, A system which
in less , than 100 years
has increased production-
capacity 50-fold has so much to recoin-
mend it that to throw it out in favor
of something unknown would be madness,
Of course it does not work perfectly; of
course it is always calling for adjustments,
What else could you expect of a system
which has increased the world’s capacity to
produce 50-fold' since 1846? For hundreds
of years mankind was repeatedly faced with
famine because there wasn’t enough to eat
and clothing was scarce. To-day the world
is faced with the problem of distributing
a glut; and there are people ivho want to
overthrow the system which has produced
the glut just because the distribution has
broken down. That’s like blowing up all
the reservoirs because there has been a
muck-up over the pipelines.
Adam Smith and His Wife
I have been prowling through Adam Smith
once more, and every time I come to one
passage I want to put another stroke
agakist it, its truth seems so self-evident.
What is prudence in the conduct of every private
family can scarce be folly in that of a great
kingdom. If a foreign country can supply us
with a commodity cheaper than we ourselves can
make it, better buy it of them with some part of
the produce of our own industry The general
industry of the country, being always in proportion
to the capital which employs it will not thereby be
diminished, no moie than that of the aitificeis,
but only left to find out the way in which it can
be employed with the greatest advantage. It is
certainly not employed to the greatest advantage
when- it is thus directed towards an object which
it can buy cheaper than it can make.
If England can supply us with galvanised
iron cheaper than Lysaghts can make it. at
Newcastle (N.S.W.), why not, in Heaven's
name, let her do so, paying her in goods
which we can produce to greater advantage
them. Enaland can? —J. A. J. (Perth).
At home there is a girl compounding a
cake. She isn’t making much of a job of
it—her mother could do. it very much better.
Yet, curiously enough, her mother lets her
do it, encourages her to do it—in fact, insists
upoii her doing it. Evidently she thinks the
girl may make a better cake than she some
day, and do it perhaps more economically,
Adam Smith would, of course, tell her that
it was rotten economy, hut Mrs. Adam
Smith would say go ahead. Outside at
tlie same house there was a boy who had
been minding sheep all his life. He had
read books about the great wool-spinning
industry of another country, and be won-
dered what there was about that other
country which gave it an advantage over his
own so far as spinning and weaving were,
concerned. tie found out that it didn’t
jiave any natural advantages at all, and
that in 50 years ,we might have just as
many acquired advantages as it had; where-
fore, as he didn’t want to mind sheep all
his days, he decided to spin and weave wool
instead. Adam Smith would call him a
fool; but he knew that some day his own
countrymen would call him a benefactor and
a patriot. As far as The Bulletin knows,
there isn’t a monument to Adam Smith any-
where; but there are hundreds oi nyonu-
rnents to the founders of great industries
men who refused to believe that, it was
better to buy from others just because lor
the moment it might seem cheaper, amt wiio
consequently laid the foundations of mdus-
tries on which great cities were built, the
cities in their turn supporting greater rural
populations than would have been possible
had it been necessary to ship all their
produce abroad.
When Is Exchange a Bonus?
Have I got this right? The acting-presi-
ent 0 j tf ie jsf.S.W. Graziers' Association
mys j io faults if the industry can pull
through without a high exchange rate. 1
always understood that you didn't gain any-
thing by a high exchange rate—that if you
got, say, £llO Australian for your £lOO YY "
hn-g, it was because the *llO AiWl ■
would buy only as much as £im stei ting,
Now, however, it seems that a_ high ex
Med (NSW)
»ti ength of its -STRUGGUtNG MED. .\V. ;
Ihe foreign buyer pays,
ling for a line of wool; but by managing
the exchange the vendor gets, say, £l3O tor
jt jn Australian money, though the natural
\ ir j c( , fixed by supply and demand, might be
much ’ leSB . Iu suc - u a case you deliberately
Vlonroeiatf* voitp own cMii'roTK'V so tliat some-
depreciate your own cuircnty so tuat some
body may get paid moie in it, his hope
being that when he pays out it will not tie
noticed that the currency l is depreciated,
The position is much the same as if a seller
agreed to accept sovereigns out of which
one-third of the gold had been taken, on
the understanding that by reason of the
debasement the seller would get 130 coins
instead of 100, in the hope that he would
be able t 0 pass the coins on as good sov-
ereigns.- But this applies only to man-
f?ed” exchange—that is exchange held
r ll W hor , than H . u ! ,l>ly . a - 1 f /mPYi? umUafili
The only question is whether the doubtful
morality of it is justified by the bad posi-
tjol? . 1C l n . ] Y al Y mdustiy, and whether
* is not possible to meet that position m
a way which is honest beyond all doubt.
T P T
duc f l must get help somcln w ■
.-, Q .
financing Land Settlement
l believe many industrious people would
take up land and accept p.n.'s in lieu of
money. I suggest that big business houses
should sign these p.n.'s, which would be
the principal currency for a jew years. If
they were payable in, say, five years, the
bulk of them would come back for goods, —
Ecamma.
But who would pay the firms that issued
the p.n.’s? “Ecamma” suggests that the
paper would be passed back to the firms in
payment for goods. In that case, who would
pay for the goods? The firm’s p.n. would
be in, but its goods would be out. What
is proposed seems to be merely a clumsy
way of raising a loan.
THE UNCONSIDERED ITEM.
CAMEL-DRIVER: “Have mercy, gentlemen! He is a strong camel, but there is a last straw
somewhere.”


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - - 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL ........ 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors .*
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTIJUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Bircliin L ane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Plum Razor Guard
mm
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and Jin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/- eacli, post free.
&/>e PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case-
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/.
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—Jin. and Jin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
GRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
MAKING THE PACE HOT.
"Did Isaacs make all his money through running his business so veilt”
"No. He made it through making a complete ash of it.”
“Maluka”: “Islander’s” theory that the
Ord River saltpan supplies stations with good
salt will cause those with inside knowledge
to chuckle (B. 22/6/’32). Salt springs
cause the salt to form on .boulders in the
bed of the river, and from there it is scraped
off and bagged. A few years ago a mis-
guided stockman, with visions of easy
money, obtained permission from the Ord
River Pastoral Co., on whose property the
saltpan is, to work the bed. With three
blacks and an outfit consisting of a shovel
and four or five tablespoons, he laboriously
cleared the boulders of sand, and then scraped
off the salt as it appeared. At the end of
six months he was so deeply in debt that
he despaired of ever getting clear. An-
other chap took control during the wet
season, when the bed of the river was
covered feet deep in sand. But he was an
opportunist. He cheerfully filled his sacks
with a mixture of .salt and sand, and, with a
few bags of clean .salt on top as evidence
of good faith, sold the lot. In the waggon-
shed on Ord River station they occupy one
corner to the roof, and the manager curses
each time he passes them.
* •:= *
“Mitai”: Jacob Haimona lives in the hot
springs area at Oliinemutu (M.L.), and like
most of the Maoris resident in that locality
he had his own special kitchen, self-con-
tained —just a hole in the soil, boxed
around with timber. Recently the heavy
rains caused such an inflow to Jacob’s
kitchen that he set to work with pick and
shovel to divert the unwanted water. He
had not been long on the job when he heard
sundry growlipgs and mutterings beneath
his feet. Like a wise man Jacob fled, just
in time to miss an upheaval which sent his
kitchen 50 feet into the air. When the dis-
turbance subsided the landscape in the
vicinity consisted mostly of boiling mud.
The garden of an adjoining home vanished,
and a power pole, carrying electric-lighting
wires, found its base in the air, with only
its wires holding it up. Jacob is looking for
another home site.
•!» '*• ‘r Jji
“Der Jong”; South African motorists
have been complaining that on a section of
the road between Cape Town and Jo’burg
dogfaced baboons have acquired the habit of
sitting on the _ steep hillsides on moonlight
nights and rolling down boulders on passing
cars. One driver was recently badly cut by
a smashed windscreen caused by the brutes.
It is an old custom. In the Boer War I had
once to ride some 30 miles from Plumer’s
flying column to Garrett’s. It was a dark
night and some miles of the track underlay
a steep kranz full of baboons. These kept
pace with the cursing horseman the whole
length of the ridge, barking and rolling
down stones. Aly great fear was that the
infernal din would attract a Boer patrol,
with unpleasant, perhaps sticky, conse-
quences. Fortunately nothing untoward
happened.
* * * *
“Ehoao-te-Manu”: The sea-serpent has
reaml his head again, this time in ALL.
THE EATING CROP.
“You have plenty of help, now, Mr. Grubb.”
“Yes, at the table, y’r rivrince.”
waters, somewhere near the Ninety-mile
Beach, on which Norman Smith tarried so
long and so futilely. The skipper of the
trawler Dorothy M. declares that he and
two members of the crew saw a sea monster
on the run from the Three Kings to the
North Cape. The creature rose almost per-
pendicularly fi'om the water until 30 feet of
carcase protruded. There was no sign of
fin or tail, and the fish, which was about
30 yards away, appeared as round as the
trawler’s funnel; it broke water four times.
The Maoris have no doubt about its identity.
Clearly it was the legendary taniwha.
i*« He ❖ #
“Gumblegubbin”: It is generally supposed
that damper originated in the bush. But
according to Bonwick, the historian, the in-
ventor was a First Fleeter named William.
Bond, the first Australian baker, who had
his place of business in Pitt-street, Sydney.
Much of the bread he made at the start was
damper, probably through lack of conveni-
ences for making the common loaf. He died
in 1838, at the alleged age of 110 years.
The name damper seems to have been de-
rived from the custom of damping the fire —
covering it with ashes so as to preserve red
coals to start a blaze in the morning. The
damper is covered in the same way.
:{: Hi ❖ ❖
“Pluffskin”: The statement that the peli-
can cannot dive (B- 29/6/’32) is a libel on
a dignified fowl, which is probably the best
fisherman among the birds, and certainly
the inventor of the trawl stroke. When neces-
sary the big fellow can go under water for his
prey, though he prefers to dredge it from
the surface. His favorite method is to drive
fish into shallow water, many pelicans tak-
ing part. Then heads and necks go under
water, and the fish are scooped up in the
capacious pouches. As to robbing shags of
their catch, no pelican could muster pace
and determination enough to tackle that
outlaw of inland waters, who is as much at
home below the water as above it. Further,
the cormorant swallows his catch as soon
as.he-grabs it, and to take it from him would
necessitate' an abdominal operation.
* *
“C. Coral”: The stinging jellyfish known
to whites as the Portuguese man-o’-war, and
to the Torres Strait islander as “Bangat,”
has such long, thread-like tendrils that it
is difficult to dodge when swimming. The
pain it inflicts is excruciating, causing the
victim to shriek in agony for hours. Long
red weals on the body give the impression
that someone has been busy with a stock-
whip or a red-hot iron; and it is hard to
remove the poisonous threads from the
native by reason of the hairiness of his body.
There are various remedies, from pouring
rum into the victim’s mouth, and getting him
well “under,” to rubbing him with ashes;
in some parts of the Strait, the lad is kept
immersed in salt water to alleviate the pain.
Vinegar, cloudy ammonia and painkiller
also come into the list where they may be
got. For stone-fish poison, which is injected
into the foot of the unhappy person who
happens to tread upon the camouflaged
horror, one remedy which the islander looks
for is a glutinous substance found on cer-
tain smooth sea-stones. If he is able to
locate some of these and rub the injured
member thereon before the wound closes, so
as to give the substance opportunity to get
inside, he is out of pain in a short while.
There is also a particular plant growing
amongst rocks on the shore which is effica-
cious if the milky-white exudation is squeezed
out and applied. It is good also for stingray
wounds. I have known a girl to be stung
by a stone-fish, and the friend accompanying
her to be badly poisoned by the same fish
through picking it up to discover whether
the “needle” which injects the poison had
been broken off.
* * * *
“iCauboy”: A Miss Fleming, addressing
the British Commonwealth Teague in Lon-
don, warmly defended marriages between
white and colored people, and said that the
supposition that the children of mixed mar-
riages inherited the worst of both sides was
an obvious biological impossibility. There
may bo scientific warrant for the young
woman’s claim, but the matter doesn’t end
there. A child born of white and colored
parents in, say, Singapore emerges into a
world wdiere color prejudice is as serious a
reality as biology. An English merchant
advertises for “Eurasian clerks” when he
wants cheap labor. The Eurasian gets a
lower wage than white men doing the same
work; he is not admitted to the white men’s
clubs, and he is seldom given the same re-
sponsibilities. lie may bo a smart man, but,
never being asked to exercise initiative, he'
fails to develop that quality. I have known
a Eurasian who has spent a lifetime at a
job and knows it inside out temperament-
ally incapable of coming to a decision which
a lad a month out from London will come
to off his own bat. The result is that the
Eurasian develops an inferiority complex
which drives him to ape the white man while
secretly despising all his works., In Java,
where there is less discrimination, the man
of mixed blood sometimes shows high admin-
istrative capacity. In British countries the
prejudice against the grey ones will have to
go before their biological inheritance will
have a chance.
* * * *
“Waipiro”: It was reported the other
day that, a surgeon had used a set of hooks
and eyes to unite the edges of an abdominal
incision that delayed the healing process by
staying apart. The lady who was thus re-
paired may possibly have to thank a pre-
cedent established at Taronga Park Zoo.
A grave old tortoise there has been through
a somewhat similar process of restoration.
Whether he was run over by a steam roller
or simply developed the middle-aged spread
is not obvious, but he suffered from an ex-
tensive crack, which must have jeopardised
the stability of his lodging-house and the
tenure of his life. Both were preserved by
as neat a bit of riveting as one would wish
to see.
RABBITS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Over half a million rabbits were killed on a
single S. Aus. station (Koonamorc) in six months;
an Adelaide University lecturer regards all present
means of destruction as hopelessly ineffective, and
advocates some biological method.’’
We let a doctor with some name like Dansyz,
A Viennese, at least I fancy so,
Experiment with biologic fancies
A quarter of a century ago.
He undertook to find some raging virus
To spread destruction through the coney
breed,
And all (save trappers) must have been
desirous
Of seeing him succeed.
Upon an island of his own we set him,
Secluded but still handy to the shore,
With manifold bacteria to get him
That which he sought and deadly germs
galore.
And if, as the belief or the report is,
It proved beyond that whiskered savant’s
powers,
The finding of the right elixir mortis,
Was it his fault or ours?
We wanted quick results, ignoring reasons
Why time was requisite to pull it off;
We grudged the passage of the rolling-
seasons,
And faith gave way to sneer and hope
to scoff.
Easy it is at charlatans to cast your
Reflections, and on quacks to fix a slur,
But when you’re through with it, remember
Pasteur.
Consider Spalilinger.
Bunnies in billions that defy assessors,
Myriads that have the wildest tallies
topped!
Pull up your socks, you erudite professors,
Take up the trail where poor old Dansyz
stopped.
What use though wisdom year by year grow
riper
And new inventions human progress
crown
If none of ypu can do what Browning’s piper
Managed in Hamelin town?
N.s.w.
PIPARDS


Top Boots
We are specialists in Riding and Racing
Boots, and supply this class of footwear
to leading Horsemen and Jockeys
throughout the Commonwealth.
RIDING
Top Boot, with welted soles and
knee straps to top. Obtainable in
black or tan calf. Price, per pr.,
39/6
JOCKEY
Jockey Boots, in Black Wallaby
with Tan cuffs, pump soles and
low heels. An ideal racing boot.
Price, per pair
49/6
TRENCH BOOTS
Splendid for rough outdoor wear.
Fits high up the leg to just
below the knee. Laced with two
straps and buckles at top. Well-
built and guaranteed to give sterl-
ing service. Price, per pair ....
39/6
Send your order to Desk S.B.
Write for New Catalogue.
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
A/ionobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridg. es
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
£8,780,000
6,150,000
8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. JORGE'S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. . . 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders. . 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office : 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
“Plankton” : The only insects which have
adapted themselves to a wholly maritime
existence are small water-bugs of the
genus Halobates. These sea-rovers are
found only in the warmer latitudes, and are
of necessity eregarious. On calm days small
colonies of them may be seen, often hun-
dreds of miles from land, disporting them-
selves on the surface of the ocean, though
they also occur in coastal waters. In rough
weather they disappear below the surface.
The insect is about as long as a grain of
wheat, and in appearance bears a resemblance
to a yabbie without the big claws and
long abdominal portion. The front and
MARY HAD A SAY, TOO.
BOSS: “Well, Mary, so you get married after all. I thought Jacky broke it off?”
MARY: “Him bin break it off all right, Boss, but I bin stick it on again.”
middle parts are fused together while the
abdomen is much abbreviated. The first pair
of legs extended alongside the antennae, add
to the’crayfish appearance. The other two
pairs of logs are long and slender and
attached near the rear end of the body.
Some 15 species are known. Related forms
have been recorded from near Torres Strait
and Port Darwin, but these do not venture
beyond tidal estuaries.
“C. Coral”: The Torres Strait native con-
tributes a fair whack to the Australian
revenue. Tobacco is a big item id Jimmy
Susu’s list of necessary commodities. Like
the rest of us he has to pay excise on what
he consumes ; and he buys many other articles
on the dutiable list. Even the post office is
getting a good deal more out of him, since
all the boys like to write home when they
are working away in the boats; the other
day I counted 80-odd letters in one island
batch alone. Jimmy helps to maintain
island schools, pays a gun tax and a dog
tax, and also a regular amount to the Thurs-
day Island hospital fund; he builds his
cement churches at his own expense, thereby
releasing some “cash money” to send to the
manufacturers south. And if he happens to
make too merry in T.I. (or any other town)
he has to pay, the same as a white man.
“Wingella”: The abo. wife-stealer in the
NT. does not have things his own way.
When a black steals a gin belonging to an
old man, the bereft husband calls his mates
together and they all help in making a clay
image of the thief, which is baked hard in
the fire, and then dried in the sun. When
of the right consistency it is again placed
in the fire, and two stars, the pointers of
the Southern Cross, are invoked to use their
malign influence to injure the despoiler.
The thief, no matter how far away he may
travel, is never able to get beyond the stars’
influence, but gradually grows stupid and
cold, and is never able to get warm again.
In Ills endeavors to keep warm he will thrust
his limbs right into the fire and not feel
the flames burning him, until flesh and bone
are charred beyond recovery. Then, when
this is known, he is told by the rest of the
men in his camp that he is bound to die,
and do,es so —the victim, the abos. say, of
magic, but more probably of imagination and
a bad conscience.
* *
“Brady’s Lookout”: “Larrapinta’s” theory
(B. 15/6/’32) that the present Australian
abo. was preceded by a far more primitive
race is well-founded, but not on his evidence.
The finding of chipped flints on Kangaroo
Island (S.A.) resembling those used by
the Tasmanian blacks is easily explained
by the fact that natives of Tasmania lived
on the island for many years. The Tasman-
ian “tiger” and “devil” are hunting in Tas-
mania to-day, and perfect specimens of
parts of both are embedded in rocks
on the mainland, proving a former con-
nection between the island and the con-
tinent. It seems reasonable to suppose that
the Tas. abo. at that time roamed all over
Australia, and that the infusion of new
blood, doubtless from the north, lightened the
color and lifted brain power a notch, lhe
mainland abos, evolved the boomerang and
throwing-stick, and affixed handles to stone
axes, which were ground and not chipped, as
the Tasmanian implements invariably were.
A link between the two races noted by the
earliest observers is the word “coo-ee.” The
rise of Bas.s Strait, by cutting the Tasmanian
natives off, gave civilised man a chance
he will never get again of observing a very
primitive type of man. Australia, in the
opinion of geologists, is the oldest of all
lands, and the Tasmanians, still in the
stone age when white men arrived, were a
unique survival.
:J: #
“Phalanger”: Praiseworthy as it is, the
Queensland Government’s refusal to open a
season for the cap-
turing of ’possums
and koalas (B.
29/6/’32) will be
only a partial check
on indiscriminate
slaughter. In Queens-
land and in N. S.
Wales illicit fur
hunters, using cyan-
ide baits because
they are less easily
spotted than traps
or snares, get away
with huge quanti-
ties of skins every
winter. By all
accounts things are
nearly as bad in
Victoria, where the
fur-bearers are also
ostensibly “protect-
ed.” The man to
shut down on is the
buyer. Without him
there would be no
market and the fur-
murder industry
would not be worth
worrying about. In-
stead of the trivial
fines imposed as a
rule, there should
be a thumping im-
post of so much a
skin found in the
possession of the
buyer —no need to
worry about the
seller—with a solid
term of jug for a
second offence. Pos-
session of prohibited
skins should be suffi-
cient evidence for a
conviction.
“Cepli.”: As to eating octopus (B.
29/6/’32), it is a common article of diet in
the eastern Mediterranean, the southern
Italians and Greeks being particularly par-
tial to it. When the Diggers knew Cairo
and Alex, they were struck
with the display of octopus,
raw and cooked, in the win-
dows of the food shops patron-
ised by the Dago citizens of
Egypt. I don’t know whether
any of the tourists ever
sampled the plat, but the jellied
stuff was attractive to the eye.
* * *
“Amburagi”: I note that a
South Aus. trapper has been
punished for possessing live
rabbits with broken legs. He
pleaded that he had left them
thus until he got back to _ his
tent in order that they might
keep quite fresh, bpt that did
him no good. When adminis-
tering a section of Papua, the
inhabitants of which were
frankly addicted to raiding and
cannibalism, I frequently came
in contact with the same econo-
mical spirit. After a raid much
of the- captured game was cut
up and cooked, being wrapped
for transport in neat little par-
cels with banana leaves. There
was always some livestock left
over, and this was trussed up
to poles and carried back to
the home town of the raiders.
To make sure that none of it
would escape on the. way, the
practice was to break the thigh-
bone of at least one leg by put-
ting it across a log and hitting
it with another one. In this
way the meat was kept alive
and fresh for several days in
order that those who kept the
home fires burning while the
war party was away might get
their share of the spoils.
"J.M.C.”: Esmeralda, a calf born in Glen-
roy (Vic.), when only 36 hours old was
milked by her owner, and every day there-
after yielded good wholesome milk until she
was dried off two months later. Esmeralda
is now a cow, and she recently produced a
calf which proved to be a ehip off the old
block. A few hours after birth she also gave
milk, and continued to do so for some time.
“Wyara”: A two-year-old boy toddled into
his home at Noosa Heads (Q.) the other day
excitedly inviting a maid—the only person
present—to look at the big worm he had.
The “worm” was a brown snake, a loot
long; the child was holding _it by neck
and tail with both hands, and it was trying
hard to bite him. “Drop it!” the girl
shrieked. He did, and she killed it. It is
a mystery how the boy caught the snake
without being struck.
sic * *
“Pick”: Before the banks established
country branches, settlers in out-of-the-way
places in N.S.W. hid their wealth so securely
AND TEA’S A FACT.
BILLY POLPEN : “Well, how do things be out your way, Maister
Sumsion?”
MAISTER SUMSION (from over Port Lincoln way).: "Well, Maister
Polpen, they cudden be worse. Last harvest the sparters
had to go down to their knees for to get to the ears o’ corn
and tha’s a fact.”
that in some instances it was never found.
An old chap who lived at Archer’s Flat, on
the Monaro, died before ho could divulge to
his heirs where he had planted his savings,
which were in about a dozen places. Only
one package, containing 200 sovereigns, was
subsequently found. Old .Tack Ivill, of the
Maclaughlin River, who made a lot of money
out of cattle trading, was drowned, with his
wife, in the wreck of the Mimosa at Bunga
Head. It was known that they kept money
hidden in the rock crannies of Shanty Hill,
but nothing was ever located. A drover
starting a long journey with bullocks from
Bibbenluke station secreted two pickle-
bottles full of sovereigns among the gibbers
of Stony Hill. He was killed by blacks,
and though every stone on the rocky knob
has been rooted over time and again the
hidden horde has not been revealed. Fencers
renewing a cemetery fence at Adaminaby
unearthed from the foot of one of the old
posts three jars crammed with bank notes,
but these crumbled to powder when the
finders attempted to pull them out.
* =:-■ * *
“G.J.A.S.”: I came across two sleepy
lizards or bobtails the other day. They were
going round and round in a circle slowly
and of set purpose, so I pulled up to’ see
what it. was all about. There was nothing
in their expressions to tell me -what was
the cause of their stolid little bout of round-
ers. The game seemed to be to prevent any
space occurring between the nose of o’ne and
the tip of the tail of the other, and I
assumed it was a form of courtship. They
kept it up with slow persistence, and I was
just about to leave them to it, as such love-
making was too slow for me, when they
slightly accelerated. Then like a flash one
stopped and snapped viciously at the middle
of the other as it unwittingly kept, going,
but an equally quick outward curve iof his body
saved him, the attacker’s jaws sliding harm-
lessly over the scales. With renewed interest
1 watched them placidly join up again and
continue their slow round —no sign of excite-
ment, hurry or temper; just a slow, quiet
waiting for an opening. No. 2 made the
next attack and failed. This was repeated
later by No. I. Then No. 2 got home.
His jaws met squarely over the other’s ribs,
lifting him clear of the ground, and I heard
ribs and scales cracking. The conquered one
was cast aside in his death agony; the
victor hurried away—to joiu perhaps some
lady bobtail waiting and watching in the
shelter of the scrub.
SALE DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though it’s bitter cold and cloudy, and the
cows are hard to find,
And it’s only moving shadows you can
see,
Still you scour the fifty acres and you bring
them all in blind,
And you’re ready for your morning cup
of tea.
For it’s sale day every Monday and the
stock have got to go
When you’re milking more than forty and
the feed is getting low.
Though the lanes are long and empty and
the cattle fat and slow,
Still a pipe’s a great companion on the
job,
And you count yourself unlucky, when you
strike the road below,
If there’s no one else behind another mob.
For it’s sale day every Monday and you’ll
hear the stockwhips crack
And the yelping of the kelpies when there’s
cattle on the track.
Half an hour to do your business, and a nip
or two, perhaps,
Ere the auctioneer begins to get along.
Shouts and dust and dogs and handshakes
ivith a score of friendly chaps,
And you mostly sell your cattle for a
song.
For it’s sale day every Monday and the
market’s pretty tough,
Though the butchers and the dealers should
be doing w T ell enough.
Then an hour to watch the market, and
another drink, and then
Saddle up and ride together out of town;
And the sun is disappearing when you’re
back at home again
And the cows are milked and fed and lying
y down.
For it’s sale day every Monday, and again
you tell the wife
That some business detained you (at the
pub). And such is life !
VICTORIA.
A. G. BURNET.


“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY 1
FOR JULY,
NOW ON SALE.
EXCHANGE & PRICES
POSSIBLE EFFECT ON
MARKET
TOBACCO SHARES
AND DEBENTURES
TIMBER & FORESTRY
OUTLOOK FOR
METALS
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.),
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Send Your Tyres to “Southern Cross” for Retreading
We send C.O.D. to any part of N.S.W.
FLAT RATE RETREADING.
All car sizes
17/6
AH car sizes
(With supertough Rubber Retreads with
popular diamond pattern for long life and wear.)
22/0
All truck sizes
Also full stocks of new tyres and tubes, also J. 0.8. tyres.
Send them along to-day. Write or ’phone.
’PHONE 81110. ’PHONE 81110.
SOUTHERN CROSS TYRES, LTD.,
75 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Baths
im
m
f 33 '
»a
33
it
13
m
oi
Melbourne’s Mast Modern Hotel.
Tariff per day:
Room and meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from 12/6
SMOKE-OH!
THE TIP.
“People instinctively dress to match their
thoughts.”
If you wear clothes to match your mind,”
She murmured (Was it meant, for rude-
ness ?),
“ There’s but one thing for you, you’ll find —
You’ll have to concentrate on nudeness!”
* *
Its latest name is Langwasm.
* *
“SAW MELBA’S SPIRIT ON OPERA STAGE!
Astonishing Claim Made by Sydney Spiritualist.”
-—Sydney “D.T.”
Evidently another of her last and abso-
lutely final farewell appearances.
# *
METAMORPHOSIS.
“The black-magic attempt on the Brocken to turn
a goat into a beautiful youth failed.”
To our extra-special representative Miss
Toots Lipstick advanced the theory that
they had messed the business up by
sheer, bone-headed ignorance. She had
a magical formula herself, she explained,
which never failed to give results on
or off mountains. The recipe was as
follows: . Take one pair silk stockings, one
set undies, one new frock and fitments;
fill with nice girl, and confront same with
beautiful youth. Miss Lipstick stressed the
point that her formula always works in
reverse; that is to say, the beautiful youth
becomes the goat.
“How’s business?”
“Crook! Even the people who never pay have stopped buying!”
“The explorer made a spirited fight before being
overwhelmed by the cannibals.”— “D.T.”
And figured on the menu as the piece de
resistance, we presume.
“If the overseas investor had not been anxious
to lend, Australia would not have incurred such
large debts.” —“Labor Call.”
We have always said that most of our
debts are owing to the investor.
CONSOLATIONS.
Although my luck is far from good, when
it’s most stiff I tumble that matters might
be ten times worse, and that I shouldn’t
grumble. When I am hungry I reflect my
meal (if I have got one) would not .suffice
an elephant, and .so I’m pleased I’m not one.
I’m glad I’m not a centipede. It would
be simply rotten to have no pants or under-
wear or socks (though merely cotton).
It would be hell to suffer corns or, when
the winter’s freezing, to feel the molars
of the ice on my toe-army seizing!
I often give a care-free laugh when sore
throats make life rougher, recalling that I’m
no giraffe with yards of neck to suffer. I’m
pleased I’m not a camel, too, however sorrow
frets me; I need not hump my hump around
when evil luck besets me.
There’s lots of things I’m glad I ain’t.
Though broke, at least I’ve not to swim end-
lessly and feed on filth, as harbor fish have
got to.
H. M.
Lang is Right—where Australia wants
him.
“The bride-elect rose at 6.30 and reached the
church with her father at 8.”' — “Sun.”
A case of the early bride catching the
worm.
* H-
“Arthur ■ was charged with the theft of
pictures which he had hidden in his flat.” — -“Sun.”
In short, with practising the art which
conceals art.
* *
KINDNESS TO VEGETABLES.
“Next Saturday, at the Dalwood Home for Children
at Balgowiah, 'Uncle George’ and Iris community
singers will entertain the kiddies by shooting rabbits,
which have been destroying the vegetable garden.
From the windows the children will watch the
hunt, and every kill will be broadcast.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Hello, boys and girls! This is your Uncle
Bill broadcasting from a safe vantage-point:
your Uncle George being more humanely
employed. Here he comes with his merry
community singers. He’s loading. So are
the songsters. Now they’re putting in the
ferrets. Hark to those squeals! Ha ! Ha !
A rabbit wouldn’t come out, the great
coward, and the plucky little ferret is giving
him what-for below. Ah! Here’s one at
last! Well! Well! Sitting on the edge of
his burrow, the silly idiot! Hear that bang?
Your Uncle George missed him —missed an
absolute sitter! No, I’m wrong. I apolo-
gise to old George. Wounded him nicely.
A community singer—one of the soprani, I
think—is after the casualty with a stick.
You can’t hear the cracks, but let' me tell
you, bairns, that rabbit is “getting his,” as
the saying goes. No more vegetables for
h i to. George
again! He got
what one might
call a rabbitlet.
that time—aimed
at Mum, and hit
little Horace, so to
speak. They’ll
sweep Horace up
later what
George’s choke
barrel has left of
him.... Now the
sport is getting-
fast and furious,
dearies. How I
wish you were here
to enjoy it with
me! Rabbits being
blown to pieces
and wounded right
and left. Every-
one madly excited!
Blood on all sides!
Screams from rab-
bits underground,
under bushes, un-
der stones —Ow!
Hear that howl?
Mr. Blipson, the
tenor, has just
peppered a d0g....
It’s happened! ' I
feared it would.
Oh, boys and girls,
I grieve to say
that they’re bring-
mg back the re-
mains of a poor, brave little ferret,
sent to its last home by Mr. Bolsover-
Bones, the basso, as it came up hanging
gamely to a confirmed vegetable-eater. Well,
we have one consolation—that ferret died
doing its duty. Of how many humans can
as much be said? Hel -lo! What’s this?
Forgive me, listeners, but I simply can’t
help it. IIo! Ho! Ho! Your Uncle
George is leaping about with his hands on
the seat of his pants. Mr. Simpson is apolo-
gising. Ho! Ho! And well he might,
children; well he might! Aimed at a bolt-
ing rabbit and got genial George bang in
s^ a t of his- —— Oh, it’s funny to see
old George! Good-byee, boys and girls.
I’ve just got to go off and have a quiet
laugh about this on my lonesome.
D. J.
¥ *
“Placed side by side, the pennies collected by the
Presbyterian Sunday-schools would stretch for "more
than half a mile.” —“"ArgusA
These Scotclibyterians can certainly make
their pennies go a long way.
# H.
I always expect, trouble when mv wife ongoges
a new maid.” —Melbourne husband. '
Breakers ahead, as the seamen say.
* *
For Sale. Warm gentleman’s overcoat, bargain ”
—“S.M.IL’-' ’
But would a warm gentleman need it?
THE OTTAWA OLYMPIAD.
Teams from all parts of the Empire are
gathering in Ottawa for the Games, which
are expected to rival those of Los Angeles
in costliness if in naught else.
AH competitors are in good nick, having
been training for years, so preliminary work-
outs won’t be necessary. No trainers are
attached to the Aus-
tralian team, but the
.squad of well-paid
prom.pte rs, and
prompters’ prompt-
ers, is one of the
biggest in history.
Events to be decided
are:—•
Platitude Record.
—The prize will go-
to the politician who
rises to the greatest
heights of balder-
dash under his own
gas and remains
there longest with-
out saying anything
of value, or interest.
Tossing the Cable.
—Points in this event
will be awarded to
competitors w h o
continue exchanging
cable messages with
their home Govern-
ments for the long-
est period and at the
greatest expens a.
The use of the maxi-
mum of words with
a minimum of sense
is the main require-
men t. N.B. Ex-
Agents-General are
barred from this
event as profes-
sionals.
Hedging.— Equivalent of the fencing-
events at Los Angeles, and likely to remain
undecided until the last minute.
Put and Take. —Only competitors who can
keep up the pace 'are likely to get beyond
the preliminaries. The object of all will
be to make every appearance of giving some-
thing away without apparently wanting any-
thing in return.
Trailing the Red Herring. —Likely to be
one of the most spectacular displays of the
Ottawaiad, the object being to put off the
scent the economic hounds, a full kennel of
which (representing every possible breed)
has been engaged.
A. C.
H- *
SCOOP OF SCOOPS.
Sensational Newspaper Exposure.
The “Sun” Will Buy the “S. M. Herald”?
(Exclusive to the “Dribble.”)
The die is cast. Hugh Denison will buy
the “S. M. Herald,” lock, stock and barrel,
for spot cash —always provided he can raise
the spot cash, and the Fairfaxes, who own
the. so-called Crone of Hunter-street, are
willing to sell. The price has actually been
whispered, and our Special Investigator is
enabled to state that it is a veritable King’s
Ransom.
DENISON’S DENIAL.
“I have no intention of buying
the ‘S. M. Herald,' said the “Sun”
magnate in a special interview with
the “Dribble” yesterday. “Never
heard of such a thing. Where do
you suppose I’d get the money?
Don’t talk rubbish. Now go away.
I’m busy.”
In the event of the proposed deal being
finalised we are in a position to inform the
Australian public that Mr. IT. Campbell
Jones will be managing editor. “Herbie” is,
as is well known, famous for his gifts in
this line. His engagement for a long term
at a fabulous salary merely depends on
the finalisation of the colossal and sensa-
tional transaction and the healing of a rift
of some years’ standing with knight Denison.
CAMPBELL’S CHALLENGE.
“I absolutely deny,” said the
Wizard of the Blue Pencil, in a
Special Interview with a “Dribble”
reporter, “that / know anything
whatsoever about this so-called deal.
No one has approached, me on the
subject, and J never heard of it
till you mentioned, it just now. I
challenge you to give me the name
of your informant. Come on! Out
with it! As I thought-—-you’ve
made the whole dam’ yarn up in
the office.”
The proprietors of the “S. M, Herald”
are, we learn on good authority, feverishly
canvassing in a series of secret family con-
claves the likelihood of the Newspaper
Knight being induced, in vulgar parlance,
to “come across.” “Has he the boodle?”
“Would he want to pay in ‘Sun’ shares?"
“Would he bring Ginger Meggs and Dorothy
Dix into the old rag?” Such are the queries
'one hears in the “Herald” board-room, and
“I don’t know what would, happen, Paul, if ever you agreed
with me!”
“I'd. be wrong, that’s all.”
in exclusive Bellevue Hill and Double Bay
drawing-rooms.
FAIRFAX'S FOOTLING
FEINT.
In response, to a telephone in-
quiry in re the topic of the jour-
nalistic hour Mr. Warwick Fairfax,
or some underling acting on his
behalf, resorted to the unmanly
pretext of cutting our representa-
tive off. Our representative, on
calling subsequently, was informed
that Mr. Fairfax was Not In! It
was typical of the Hunter-street
Hag's obscurantist methods, but
such tactics will in no sense debar
us from doing our duty by the
great public which we live to serve.
There the matter rests for the present.
“Dribble” readers may rely on being sup-
plied with the latest and most reliable in-
formation as this exciting situation careers
swiftly, inexorably, to its appointed impasse.
* *
STOLEN OR STRAYED.
“Lost, black and white Pom ; owner attached to
dog ; reward.” — “S.M.H.”
The total loss of man and Pom
One hates to contemplate;
Let's hope that they, with scant delay.
Were i escucd from their fate.
P. C.
* *
“Doctors are not partial to recommending obesity
cures.”
Naturally. What doctor wants to get rid
of the bulk of his patients these hard times.
* *
“The artificially inflated wages we have been
accustomed to will never return.”
In short, the wage of miracles is past.
“Oh, they tell me your husband' was caught
at twenty.”
“Absolutely untrue! He’d been chasing me
for years, and he was much older than
that, anyway.”


• : '- v
Unseen xhdoTS
make tftkal doemrices
the ground all aeroplanes look much alike. And yet
the Schneider Cup was won with a speed of 408 m.p.h.—
more than double the speed of the average plane. The engines
that make the vital difference are unseen.
And so with a radio set.
E 4
■L : ...lit* I
t
\ m
. ■ %
msa
m A d|!ii
V.I
IMI
■.?;. ■ 9
m
II
raj®
j
iSmMKmss
j
-> ' jSSSsJ
JLJEALING radio is different, because of the care that is taken in perfecting these
hidden details because it is so conscientiously, so perfectly , constructed. That
is why its tone, its range, its selectivity are so far beyond ordinary comparison.
One can only judge Healing radio by actual performance. Hear it —at once
at your dealers.
Prices from £lB-18-0 to £5O-10-0
F\ealis^
GOLDEN VOICED RADIO /
Ls cLLI Fe ren.L/
Send enquiries to local Dealer or
MELBOURNE: 167-173 Franklin St., C.l.
A. G. HEALING LTD.
Manufacturers and Master Distributors
(Wholesale Only)
ADELAIDE: Cr. Pirie and Pulteney Sts.
SYDNEY: 164-170 Goulburn St.
Retail Distributors
MELBOURNE:
Healings Pty. Ltd.,
101 Elizabeth St., C.l
HOBART at LAUNCESTON
Medhurst & Sons
Pty. Ltd.
PERTH:
Bay’s Transport Ltd.,
917 Hay St.
SYDNEY:
Rowe Street Radio
21 Rowe Street
Queensland Dealers write to
ii. .1. ROSE, c/o T. W. MOSS & CO,
121 Eagle Street. Brisbane
SUNSHINE FARM IMPLEMENTS
Work Well and Last, Long
Sunshoe” Seed Planter
u
Sows Maize, Peas, Cotton, French
Bean, Onion, Turnip, Mangel,
Broom, Sudan Grass, Peanut,
Pumpkin and many other seeds.
PRICES:
For sowing seed only . . £5/19/-
For sowing both seed and
fertiliser £7/2/6
“Satellite” One-horse Hoes
ď
No. 80 type, leverless, as here
illustrated ; £2/7/6
No. 88. Similar, but heavier. Ideal
for plantation work .. £3/11/-
No. 7. With expansion lever and
depth-regulating lever, £3/11/-
These handy little all-steel imple-
ments are a boon to market-garden-
ers, etc. The frames expand and
contract. Hillers and furrowers
supplied.
“SUN BIRD” PLOUGHS
mM
m
'IfB
■**«?..%£»- >: v '■* : 13
rtw Axs -c.. * < > i
Ms
A 3-furrow “Sunbird” working on a stiff grade in Gippsland, Victoria.
The “Sunbird” Ploughs are splendid
(or orchard and small-farm use, and
are noted for the manner in which
they turn in and bury green
manurial crops and weed growth.
f
d
1-furrow size cuts furrows 9in. wide to 6in. deep. 2- and
3-furrow sizes cut furrows Bin. wide to 6in. deep.
PRICES:
■Single-furrow, with fixed handles, £4/5/6
Single-furrow, movable handles, £4/12/6
2-furrow, £l2/7/-; 3-furrow, £lB/1/-
Knife-coulter, 7/6. Rolling-coulter, 15/-
Depth-regulating Wheel, 10/-
“Tasman” Plough
ďf
Mouldboard of soft centre steel
turns a good furrow and cleans
well. Cuts furrows 6£-in. wide.
Overall length of plough, Bft. Has
cast share of the socket type. A
wrought-steel share can be supplied
when ordered. Wide bridle adjust-
ment enables land to be ploughed
close up to tree-trunks.
PRICE, £3/11/-
Knife-coulter, 7/6. Wheel, 10/-
“Sunpearl” Disc Harrow
Gangs are
exten s i b 1 e
for gap up
to 2 feet.
tHiiiliiniumiii.
Discs are
reve r s i b 1 e
for in-throw
or out-throw
8 16in. discs, 4ft. cut, £ll/3/-
8 20in. discs, 4ft. cut, £l2/2/-
10 1 6in. discs, sft. cut, £l2/2/-
10 20in. discs, sft. cut, £l3/11/-
12 20in. discs, 6ft. cut, £l4/15/-
A forecarriage can be fitted in lieu
of pole and swings at £2/3/- extra.
These
H. V.
are the Net Cash Prices for delivery on rail Sunshine. Terms are available. No extra charge made for Sales Tax—v
Write for 96-page Illustrated Descriptive Catalogue and Price List of all Sunshine Manufactures, FREE.
McKAY MASSEY HARRIS PTY.
(SUNSHINE SECTION)
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
Branches and Agencies: BRISBANE, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH.
pay it.
LTD


Mick Simmons
The Largest Range of
Low-Priced,
Dependable
SPORTING
RIFLES
in all Australia to-day!
d
No. I—THE MAINE RIFLE,
22-cal., bolt action, fitted with
plain V-backsigbt; for short, long, or
long-rifle cartridges. Round barrel,
ISin. long, bored and rifled with the
same care as the military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate. Weight,
about 31b 20 •
Postage, I[9; Other States, 3j-
No. 12-WINCHESTER
SINGLE SHOT RIFLE,
MODEL 60, for 22 short, long
or long-rifle rim-fire cartridges; 23in.
round steel barrel, one-piece pistol-grip
stock, bolt action, ladder rear- and
gold bead front-sight; weight
about 4Jlb 47/0
Postage , 2J-; Other States , 3/0.
No. 15— WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE,
I9O6MODEL, 22 cal, 16-
shot, 20in. round barrel, plain
trigger, straight grip, ladder rear-
sights, slide action; magazine
handles 15 short, 12 long or 11 long-
rifle cartridges.
Weight, about s Jib 3L*5/15"
Carriage Paid.
No 20
WINCHESTER
REPEATING
RIFLE.
MODEL 53,
25/20 or 32 W.C.F., 22in.
round nickel steel barrel,
lever action similar to
1802 Model, handles the
ordinary cartridge, also
the special Hispeed;
weight, about ~ _ ,
61b £9/5/-
Carriage Paid.
"M. S.
.303 Lee Enfield
kSporter
fd
Realising the demand for a light,
well-balanced, high-power sporting
rifle adapted to the popular and in-
expensive .303 Service cartridge, the
“M.S. Special” was designed by us,
and is entirely rebuilt in our own
factory under the personal super-
vision of Mr. Dan McCarthy, one of
the most expert armourers in Aus-
tralia.
Unnecessary wood is removed from
the fore-end, which is then shaped to
the graceful design illustrated. A
high “comb” is built-in to the stock,
giving a drop at comb of 1J inches
and a drop at heel of 3 inches.
With these proportions the shooter’s
eye falls into the line of sight the
instant his cheek touches the stock.
This rifle undoubtedly fills a long-
felt want among kangaroo- and
alligator-shooters, and,
though entirely new, has
already created a steady
demand in N.S.W., Queens-
land and the Far North.
PRICE: With good used
Mate h
Barrels ...
£6/15/-
PRICE: With New Eith-
gow Match
Barrels ....
(Carriage Paid)
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0.,
Haymarket, Sydney.
MICK
SIMMONS
LIMITED,
720-23 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Premier Sports House of Australia,.”
) UA
5
<k
in.
»W
\ ft h'
Cyc
ivi
SACK
FENCE
“I’m saving all
that trouble
and
£8
a mile
too!”
Yes, the farmer who puts up a Cyclone fence instead of the old
“wire-and-dropper” fence will save £8 a mile! His material will
cost the same. Labor will cost £8 a mile less—for CYCLONE
IS ERECTED IN A LITTLE MORE THAN HALF THE TIME!
And his “Cyclone” fence will be permanently stockproof. He
will spend no time or money in maintenance. His fence will be
practically everlasting. It cannot sag, or stretch. In the unlikely
event of a broken wire the heavy uprights which are immovable
and rigid keep the break local, and no slacking out of the wire
occurs.
a
u—(
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE C?P”U D
24 JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced
Catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal Gates and Ring-Lock Fences and
comparison of costs.
)=-
>=
H>=
ďf
d
f
d
ďf
df
d
ď
______ is now an
exclusive feature
of all 'genuine
ADVANX RCADMASTERS
HEN you buy Advanx Retreads, ask
for the Advanx “Roadmaster.”
0
mmmm
Him
In addition to the superior constructional
features, “Tempered Rubber” is used exclusively
in ail genuine “Roadmaster” Retreads.
m
Advanx “Tempered Rubber.” is the new Rubber
devolved by Advanx Chemists to meet the modern
requirements of retreading. Tougher, longer wearing,
and more resilient, it will stand up to the severest
punishment and yet retain the flexibility and resiliency
.of ordinary Rubher.
.Your local Dealer will be pleased to show you the new
\ Advanx “Roadmaster”—ask hisnl
EVERYWHERE
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office—
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
Public Notice.
TAMES GRAY & SON, of 24 Rood Lane,
J London, E.C.3, established in City of
London for 44 years as Australian Agents,
are prepared to act as buying agents for
Australian Merchants, also as selling agenfs
of Australian products, and are in touch
with various manufacturing and selling
markets throughout England and Scotland.
Correspondence invited from Australian
Merchants and Producers. Any inquiries or
information required will have the prompt
and personal attention of the Firm. Cables
“Routinary, London.” Codes used, A.8.C.,
sth and Gth Ed. and Bentleys.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO THE MANUFACTURE OF HOLLOW
ARTICLES FROM FIBROUS PULP.
TpHE Proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 27,311/30 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
How to Add Years
to Your Life and
Life to Your Years
You can take ten years from your
age. It is for you to decide whether
you will be nervous, vitiated, weak and
sickly, or whether you shall glow with
vitality and health —equipped to face
life’s problems with goodwill and good
cheer. Do you suffer from every ail-
ment that happens? Have you con-
stipation, indigestion, gastritis, back-
ache, catarrh, pimples? Do you suffer
from headaches, rheumatism, eczema,
neuritis, weakness of any organ, gas
in the stomach and bowels, bladder
complaint? Have you lost your old
youthful energy? It is because you
are unconsciously permitting poisons
that bring on disorder and disease to
remain in your system.
No matter how regular your daily
habits, through faulty and incomplete
action of the bowels, particles of food
waste become encrusted in the walls
of the intestine. This waste accumu-
lates and breeds germ-producing poi-
sons which enter the blood-stream, thus
undermining your health —taking power
from those life-giving organs of Nature
■ —making you old, years before your
time. Most internal sickness is now
traced to dreaded self-poisoning ( autox -
ima) —the result of hidden, unsuspected
constipation.
Be internally clean. Dislodge this
crust from the intestine and cleanse
the blood-stream. Free the system of
the poisonous waste matter. Drink
COLOSEPTIC—the simple and prompt
way to internal cleanness—to freedom
from aches and pains —to glorious
health and fitness—to new life —new
vitality, new energy. COLOSEPTIC
acts on the intestine, the kidney, the
pores of the skin, and the respiratory
apparatus—Nature’s four great chan-
nels for the disposal of impurities from
the body. You can get COLOSEPTIC
in regular full-size jars from all chem-
ists. Send 1/- stamps or postal note
to COLOSEPTIC CO., LTD., Dept.
M 4, 24 Jamieson Street, Sydney,
for a Special Demonstration Jar of
COLOSEPTIC, and the interesting
booklet “Autoxima.”
4
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
cror
Couchs
BUSINESS IS
BOOMING!
BE IN THE BOOM
Note the Perth
Progressive gross circulation figures
from February 7 to June 12, 1932:
February 7
„ 21
March 6 . .
„ 20 .
April 3 . . .
„ 17 ...
May 1 ....
„ 15 ....
„ 29 ....
June 12
28,200
30,600
31.400
32,100
34.250
35,590
37.400
41.250
42.400
47,000
The "Sunday Times” is the most
widely-discussed paper in the West.
As an advertising medium for results
it stands alone. Why not try it?


TO-DAY
To-day is the to-morrow you were thinking of yesterday.
There is hardly anything that the average person procrastinates
about quite so much as money-saving, despite that the same average
person has a comparatively small income, knows that he must spend
carefully and save wisely, and knows, too, the best way to do it.
Have you done, to-day, what you yesterday put off until to-
morrow?
You can open a Savings Bank Account anywhere, because the
Commonwealth Savings Bank is represented in every district in Aus-
tralia, and with any amount, from one shilling upwards.
It is so easy—you have only to register your signature and deposit
your shilling (or more) and you will have started on your saving
campaign—to-day.
€bmmonwcaltb Savings Bank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
f
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD,
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director: H. hell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
L_ N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
gEa Agency Co., Ltd. •==
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
THE N.S.W WOOL SEASON.
Arrivals in Sydney of N.S.W. wool during
the season just completed were a record —
1,180.000 bales, an increase of 159,691 on
the previous season. Sales amounted to
1,190,537 bales, including locally-felled wool,
so there will be room for the next season’s
clip, which is estimated at 1,230,000 bales,
For the second year in succession seasons
have been good in most of the N. S. Wales
wool-growing districts, and the quality of
the coming clip is thus assured. This year’s
cut per sheep wag) the heaviest yet recorded,
and there is no evidence that the coming
season will not show results at least as good,
It is estimated that over 45 million sheep
will go through the sheds. _
Of the overseas buying the most satis-
factory feature has been the jump in the
demand from Britain and Japan. The first
took 954,733 bales up to May 31, as against
817,932 the year before. Japan was even
hungrier, for the figures in her case were
609,715 and 456,062 respectively. France,
Germany and Belgium showed a drop of
about 25 per cent, all round; but Italy raised
its purchases from 121.781 bales to 184,536,
while the little buyers, with the exception of
America, maintained their average. What
this country would do without its unique
wool-growing industry is not pleasant to con-
template.
STUD SHEEP VALUES.
“TTAoavan n, Till otmUliwri sales in
much 1e was expected
con-SderTn- the eeneftd hard times Salesmen
renorted ahnost & entire clearances' most of the
shee? nassed in chan-in- hands privately
fi r li e fmir’Wvs was £3B 500 an
sheen from
the leadin'** ttwl* were iimvarm demand but
liL S -ruhs Jmived
Off! though more slowly. G. B.°S Falkiner’s
r S to W %iA U of’Sl 32:
e -vrn 1 > ol T - 4 JI i H
U Mills s Uardry slieep also atUacted a lot
Qnn° ntl - Jn ’ som x, ° n aliiHmi in the merinos
S ISiS ZTZ
British breeds w tin we fell , •
Maoriland Comedies, jnownffays very
popular dual-purpose sheep, also brought
good prices, one ram bred Uy T. Mactailane
(Mernwa) fetching 160 - c •
T - * rTmv h-aat ,
STICK 10 QUA LI I a Vv UUL
“Valerin”: An examination of a number
of rams submitted at the Sydney sheep sales
revealed a marked tendency towards a dis-
tinctly broad type of wool. Whatever one
may think of this departure from the good
old “medium,” at any rate it is wool. Quite
a number of sheep carried fleeces showing
considerable irregularity of quality and hairy
fibres. Tlie presence _of hair in wool is
against every canon of good breeding. Dis-
semination of blood of this type through
Hocks must cause deterioration in the qual-
ity of our wool, and at present prices, with
S. African competition t;o' reckon with, we
cannot afford to take risks. It is easy to
grow this hairy stuff, but it’s the Devil’s
own job to get it out again.
Woollen textile manufacturers look oil
regularity in the quality of a clip as essen-
tial. A few years back a classer o’r breeder
considered uniformity of fleece as one of the
finest characteristics of a well-bred sheep.
Criticism from Bradford on the deteriora-
tion of Australian wool is resented by flock-
owners; but if the carelessly-bred, cliarac-
terless wool so frequent to-day is an
indication of the trend of modern breed-
ing, criticism is fully justified. _ The argu-
ment given for this change-over is that bulk
and weight are needed in fleeces, but if it
can only he attained by destroying our repu-
tation for quality it’s not worth while. It
seems to me there should be a closer col-
laboration between growers and manufac-
furors for the production of a wool of good
manufacturing properties.
“Sheepo”: “Murrawong” (B. 22/6/’32)
maintains that m.v definition of a. 60’s wool
is misleading, and implies that the fact of
the wool being sound o’r tender is not perti-
nent. Wrong. With tender wool the tear
—that is, tlie percentage of noil taken
out in the process of combing tops—is
greater than in the case of sound wool. Again
a sound wool has greater felling properties
than a tender wool. “Murrawong’.s” impres-
sion that the majority of our Australian
merino wools are of a 64’s quality is also
mistaken—unfortunately. The tendency for
breeders to go in for a more robust type of
sheep has resulted in quality suffering. I
say the majority of o’ur merino flocks aver-
age common and super 60’s,
__ _
THE ZEBU BLOOD,
“Dalgonally”: For years cattlemen the
world over have been discussing the suita-
bility of the Zebu or Brahman breed or
cattle (Bos indiem) for stocking tropical
countries where cattle of the European type
(Bos taurus) are alleged to have deter-
iorated. There has sprung up a school
which, while it cannot deny that British
breeds flourish over large areas of tropical
Australia, insists that in other countries
with similar conditions there are relatively
greater numbers of cattle of other breeds,
These are not of pure Zebu stock, leggy,
shelly and light-fleshed, but hybrid Zebu
crosses with European cattle, notably the
British beef breeds. In a brochure pub-
lished by the Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research, It. B. Kelly, 8.Y.5.,
ably, if not altogether convincingly, sets out
a case for the Zebu blood.
The outstanding characteristic of the
Zebu is its hardiness and ability to do
well on poor and scanty feed, and this is
supplemented by its immunity from tick
poisoning, a trait which it transmits to its
half-bred progeny. From the beef point of
view the light-boned crosses are said to give
more meat per joint, weight for weight, than
British breeds. Otherwise there appears to
he no significant difference between the two.
In extolling the Zebu, the author is care-
M not to commit himself. His general con-
elusion is that the wholesale importation of
these cattle is rather to be condemned than
advocated; he advises a preliminary fixation
and hybridisation process with rigid selec-
tion and approved breeding methods. In
other words , absolute fixation of a new type
nrast be achieved, and that is one of the
enterprises a stockbreeder can
Cro M° y n W his advocacy of the Zebu
on the great results claimed to have been
achieved \ y breeders in Texas, Uruguay and
Brazil. He makes no mention of its intro-
duction to the Argentine, by far the most
important of the world’s beef-producers.
Th * Zebu strain has been teste d in the
Westra]ia and n .q. In n 0 caS e does it
seem ’ t 0 have made permanent impres-
;sion on the experimenters. Smithfield is
said to favor the bright-colored meat of the
Zebu crosses. All the same, it pays much
better prices for the British-bred Argentine
product than for the crossbred meat from
Brazil and Uruguay. Mr. Kelly’s claim that
the evidence is in favor of the allegation
that British beef breeds when transplanted
to the tropics “have an outstanding teu-
dency to deteriorate” is not borne out by
the experience of Northern Australia and
the Argentine. The author weakens his case
for the Zebu by his admission that “continual
breeding of these crossbreds in the tropics
requires the maintenance of two stud herds,
one of. which (i.e., the British breed) is
a priori unsuited to the climate. On the
other hand, continuous breeding with cross-
breds, unless they have gone through a pre-
liminary fixation process (in other words,
developed into a new type), gives rise to a
large percentage of undesirables.” In that
case, since the maintenance of a British
breed is essential, why drag in the Zebu?
Any deterioration in the British herd could
be offset, by the importation of new bulls
and cows, as is, indeed, the practice among
up-to-date cattlemen- in all parts of Aus-
tralia.
In cold fact about the only advantage
Bos indiem has over his European brother
is his immunity from tick infection. With
the years, the cattle herds of Australia have
also developed that immunity to a marked
degree, and there is no reason to suppose
that this will not increase with time.
QUALITY WHEAT,
___ “Wodgil”: Some recent remarks of Dr.
Kent Jones, a British authority on the mill-
ing and baking qualities of wheat, support
the contentions of “George leks” (B.
22/6/’32). Dr. Kent Jones was in Aus-
tralia not long ago, and, according to his
own account, as given in the Aprif number
Of “Milling,” he was “a little perturbed” to
find _ that research in wheatbreeding was
tending to find varieties which would crop
well under drought and semi-drought con-
ditiong rather than varieties capable of pro-
duping stronger wheat from the baker’s
point of view. Owing to tile nature of the
wheat, British millers are restricted in the
amount of Australian they can use in
their blends. In Dr. Jones’s opinion, it
is not the wisest policy to increase the pro-
duction of varieties of baking quality similar
to those already existing, or below the stan-
dard.
These observations w r ere quoted by G. L.
Sutton, the Westralian Director of Agricul-
ture, in a contribution to the Gluclub con-
troversy, which has blazed up afresh. Glu-
club he describes as “one of those crosses
which it is extremely difficult, if not impos-
sible, to fix.” The main type has a dis-
tinctly club-shaped ear, brown in color, with
bright, starchy grain of medium size. It is
not more susceptible to ball and flag-smut
than the Gluyas Early variety, but very much
more liable to both diseases than Nabawa,
Noongaar, Bencubbin and Totadgin. Glu-
club is prolific beyond all doubt, but in milling
and baking tests it compared badly with
Gluyas Early. The gluten was found to be
short and of poor quality; the dough was
soft and short, and the absorption poor.
“The point at issue,” Mr. Sutton concluded,
“is whether its baking quality is sufficiently
high for Westralian commercial require-
ments. The tests so far indicate that it is
not.”
VIC. WESTERN DISTRICT DAIRYING.
“McNoon”: “Penfield’s” criticism (B.
22/6/’32) of Vic, Western District dairy-
farming methods is in certain respects un-
fair. Certainly there has been no drought
since 1914, but last year months of almost
incessant rain were followed by weeks of
harsh, drying winds. Then came a dry, hot
summer. The conditions were more severe
on stock than a long drought would have
been. Dairy-farmers came through well
because of the large reserves of grass hay
they had stored. Could they have done
more with silage?
“Penfield” confuses the District Cow-
testing Association and Government standard
tests. The Government test applies to stud-
book pedigreed stock only, and is wholly
controlled by Department of Agriculture
officials. The test “Penfield” refers to is
controlled by farmers, who engage their own
experts. The best herds in the Western Dis-
trict are not being tested.; “Penfield” may
use that as evidence in support of his argu-
ment if he pleases. Nevertheless, net returns
per cow from some herds are amazing; and
they are mostly the result of feeding on
the pasture and what is grown on the farms.
This cannot be said of the herd at Panmure
referred to by “P.”
There is now no demand for mongrel bulls
in the W.D. Local dairy-farmers go in
consistently for pedigreed sires. Their herds
on the average are larger than those in any
other part of Victoria, and no other part has
more prosperous farmers.
DEEP SUBSOILING.
“Kilkivan”: Re deep subsoiling (B.
22/6/’B2), a practice in irrigated vineyards
in Vic. is to run two or three deep cuts down
every second row of vines. Generally speak-
ing, the other row is sown down with a
cover crop of tick beans. Recent study of
root growth of vines by the C.S. and I.R.
at Merbein has proved that the feeding area
of the vine roots is practically all in the
upper two feet of soil. The top six inches
is lost on account of ploughing and summer
cultivation. This upper few inches always
dries out quickly if not cultivated, so it is
desirable to cut all roots and keep them
from covering up into it by constant cultiva-
tion. If the roots came right to the sur-
face the drying out of the soil would check
the development of the vine. Breaking the
subsoil up destroys any hard pan forming
below the cultivation and allows water
freely into the next 18 inches, where all
the work is being done to produce the crop.
Another side to this discovery is the alter-
ation of irrigation methods. The old idea of
heavy waterings to wet the soil down several
feet has been abandoned. Water going below
the root-feeding zone is obviously waste.
Pumping water is a costly business, so now
efforts are being concentrated on keeping
irrigations to a schedule which gives suffi-
cient water and no more. By cutting down
time of irrigating and using more furrows
to get quicker and more even wetting of the
root zone, expenses have been reduced con-
siderably.
“Jobber” : “Olarenza” condemns deep sub-
soiling. My memory of a sugar-cane plan-
tation in N.Q. is that the ploughs went well
into the ground, and that the crops were as
good as any in the district. The boss had
grown up with the cane, and what.he didn’t
know about the game wasn’t worth bother-
ing about; he ploughed deep, and got results.
Again, when I was in the cabbage country
between Mo'ss Vale (N.S.W.) and the coast,
the practice among all the eockies was, on
the third ploughing, to take the wheel off
and let her down to the beam: with the type
of plough we used, what was known in those
days as a “clipper,” we reckoned she went
at least 14 inches. Every man in the dis-
trict did the same, and no better cabbages
went into the market. I put 400 head on
my waggon one day, and the railway weigh-
bridge showed 28cwt. net. Incidentally,
turning up a paddock on the chocolate hills,
many of which had boon Yankee-grubbed,
was a job for a real ploughman. The cove
who sits at ease on a many-furrowed plough,
with a big team of horses, has a job as
soft as any union secretary compared with
the single-furrow man in hilly country.
FASTENING SGI TRAILS.
“Mulyan”: There are two kinds of slip-
rails. One is a sliding panel, a split rail
that slips back at one end through the mor-
tise-hole of an ordinary split post. This
rail is easily dropped by horses or cattle
rubbing their necks under it. Some farm
horses and dairy cows deliberately open them.
To prevent that, fasten each rail by boring
an inch hole through the sliding end of it
on the inside of the post, and insert a peg.
The other end of the rail is shouldered:
when pegged, it can’t be shoved one way or
the other. The two rails may be padlocked
by running a light chain through the holes
and leaving no slack.
The other kind is the sliprail proper,
usually cut from a light sapling, and futed
into round posts. Three rails are generally
used, sometimes only two, sometimes four.
For the butt-ends the holes are mortised
about Sin. deep ; at the other end the holes
are mortised the same depth, but the length
of the holes must be twice the width of the
rails; then an inclined slot is cut into the
top of the mortise for the end of the rail
to slip in and out. The butt-end should have
room enough to remain in the mortise when
the slip end is let down on the ground.
To fasten the rails, bore a downward hole
above the end of each, so that the peg lies
in the inclined slot. The rails may be pad-
locked by means of an iron bar, spiked
loosely to the post below the bottom rail,
and with an eye in the top end to slip over
an eyebolt. When unfastened, it is dropped
on the ground, parallel with the fence.
Sometimes horseshoes, driven into the
sides of the posts, are used instead of mor-
tise holes. The rails here are free at both
ends, and a convenient fastening is another
horseshoe. Shape the shoe into the form of
a two-pronged pin, the prongs straight and
about 2in. apart. Then bore two vertical
holes near one end of each rail, one hole
on each side of the shoe that’s in the post,
for the pronged pin to fit into. Attach pin to
a strip of greenhide nailed to the post, and
it will always be handy.
THE ACID TEST.
“Mat Ure”: Theory sometimes corrects
practice, but in many instances practice
makes theory look a goat. The acid test for
oranges (B. 15/6/’32) lias for its objec-
tive accelerated consumption in the early
part of the season. Whether it is having the
desired effect is another matter. I have
had some little experience in citriculture.
Applying the test to immature fruit I found
an acid figure of approximately 28 c.c.s.
This dropped to 13 a few weeks later, and
later still to 8 or 9. The acid and sugar
ration varies in a similar manner, commenc-
ing at 5 and ending at 22.
Oranges exposed to the north and east
invariably gave a lower test than those on
the other sides of the tree. The season, the
soil and the fertiliser applied will have an
effect on the test. Oranges picked immature
with a high acid figure will mature on stor-
ing to pass the taste of the most fastidious,
but not the test. Generally speaking, the
juicier the orange the more palatable it is.
i.e., to the majority of consumers. Personally,
I do not like an orange very sweet, and one
with a hick in it is preferred for fruit salads.
The main point I wish to make, however,
is that the acid figure will vary yearly.
I have to admit that I do not apply
the test now. The wife used my vessels
for glasses until they were broken; the
burettes were smashed when being used to
measure out acetic acid in _ making green-
tomato pickle; the soda solution deteriorated
sufficiently for the chemist to inform me
it was useless. While allowing that the test
is efficient within limits, in practice I find
the simple expedient of taste, color, texture
and skin serves my purpose (especially this
year) in harvesting for the early market.
HAVOC AMONG PEACH-TREES.
Last spring a disease wiped out about
28,000 fruit trees —nearly all peaches—at
Shepparton and neighboring districts in the
Goulburn Valley. Of 270 fruit blocks in
the area, 51 were not touched ; 1.33 lost up
to 100 trees; 42 lost 100 to 300; 21 lost
300 to 500: 13 lost more than 500 trees. A
departmental committee reports that the de-
stroying agency was sour-sap, known in
N. S. Wales and California, and caused in
this case by stagnant soil water, which
affected the roots.
Heavy autumn and winter rainfall—l 6
inches fell in five months —and over-irriga-
tion brought about the waterlogged condi-
tion that had so disastrous a result. The
committee considers that “there is need for
improvement in the irrigation technique of
many growers,” and “the use of a soil auger
as an aid to the irrigator in determining
irrigation requirements is strongly reeom
mended to every grower.” It remarks that
(.Continued on next page.)


■JUi
x* Ji '
1
/
&
■
\ A . j,
i
1
Snug fit and easy
suppleness
Its glossy calf upper shaped for all
the curves of your f00t.... with
elastic ankle-pieces that make it
resilient and neat-fitting.... this
Abbey Riding Boot is light in weight,
and as tough as can be made. The
upper is lined completely with soft
leather, the sole is surprisingly
flexible.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also, a
tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning out-
fit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF . . 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street and 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 289
43\
v-lv
F
msm
Cigars
Craig &Aitken
WholesateDisfributois
Sydney N.S.W.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
articles reprinted from
“The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin" Office,
all States.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, tn Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures’ of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
''J
m
4
>
Wn
m
THE GENUINE WATERPROOF BLUEY
MINERS’ BLUEY (Guaranteed Waterproof).
BEWARE OP IMITATIONS.
MANUFACTURED BY
JOHNSTONE BROS. PTY., LTD.,
Derwent Woollen Mills, Hobart.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
yii
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH
•7.
~CO‘‘_
m
m
„u.
No. 151 TEXAS RODEO
COWBOY SADDLE
An up-to-date attractive saddle, finished
in light brown leather, profusely basket-
stamped. It has square bastos lined with
woolly sheepskin. There is a rope strap
on offside of bulge, the horn is wrapped,
and it is three-quarter rigged with cord
cincha and wood stirrups.
PRICE, £l5
If double rigged, with 2-cord cinchas,
17/6 extra; and if in special nut-brown
leather, 17/6 extra.
Our No. 150 “WESTERN RANGER,”
unstamped, with round bastos, is only
£ll/10/-
Freight Free for cash with order to any
N.S.W. railway station.
COWBOY BRIDLE, fancy studde'
cheeks, etc., without bit, 32/C
N.P. Cowboy Bit 7/6 extra. Post
age extra unless sent with saddle.
COWBOY RIDING BOOTS.
American Style, as illustrated, in black,
77/6 pair. Postage 2/-
Write for Saddlery Catalor/ue —Reduced Prices.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, Ltd.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
df
“special measures should be taken each yeat.
to determine whether or not an irrigation in
March is necessary,” and that “surface
drainage is imperative during a wet winter;
in autumn each block should be carefully
furrowed with this object in view. The
benefit of surface drainage was particularly
noticeable on some of the blocks visited.
Here the growers, at the expenditure of a
little time and labor, had so improved the
drainage facilities that the losses were neg-
ligible.” Annual growth of a winter green
crop is also suggested; “in addition to en-
riching the soil in humus, such a crop will
remove tremendous quantities of soil water
by transpiration.”
On most of the areas where peaches have
died, replanting with peaches is recom-
mended, except on blocks where waterlogging
is hard to avoid ; there pears or plums might
do better. The officers also consider that a
soil survey should be undertaken and a re-
search station established in the Goulburn
Valley.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) At the Sydney fat-stock sales a line
of vealers brought over £B. What age and
breed would, a beast of that description and
price be? (2) What breed of bull would be
most suitable for breeding quick-maturing
baby beef at Oberon ( N.S.W.)? And at
what age would it be advisable to market
them if the calves were dropped about Sept.-
Oct. and weaned the following July, tv or Ic-
ing with a mixed lot of cows, mostly Short-
horns? (3) What mixture of grasses for a
permanent pasture to give the earliest result
in the spring? —4s3.
(1) No date given, but the N.S.W. Agri-
cultural Department’s herdmaster thinks the
vealers referred to were pure-bred Shorthorns,
15 to IS months old, the weight dressed being
approximately 3Jcwt. to' 4ewt. The expert
named is of the opinion that the best breed
of bull to use in that climate for Shorthorn
cows would be Aberdeen Angus, the vealers
being marketed at. 18 months. (3) The de-
partmental agrostologist recommends certi-
fied perennial rye 81b., cocksfoot 51b., Italian
rye 31b., Phalaris tuberose lib., red clover
21b., white clover lib., sub. clover lib., per
acre, sown in autumn.
(1) llow much butter teas made in
N.S.W. last year, and how much was graded
as “choicest”? (2) How much butter from
N.S.W. was exported and what proportion
was “choicest”? (3) How does N.S.W.
compare, as regards proportion of “choicest,”
with other butter-producing countries? —IST.
(1) For the year ended June 30, 1931
(latest figures available), 48,000 tons of
factory butter; 95 per cent, was marketed as
choicest quality, after deducting all regrad-
ings made by Commonwealth and State
officers. (2) During same year, 14,000
tons; 90 per cent, was choicest grade;
30,000 tons were marketed for consumption
in N. S. Wales —practically all choicest.
(3) The quality position mentioned in (2)
is a record for the world, the nearest com-
parison being that of Maoriland, which
manufactured about 60 per cent, of its out-
put as choicest grade; of its exports, 70 per
cent, was choicest.
I have a grape vine which for two years
has formed large bunches that do not mature.
'.ldle berries remain small, with the excep-
tion of three or four full-size berries on
each branch.— 7o6.
With a few varieties the effect of setting
mentioned is quite natural. Certain weather
conditions, such as cold snaps and rain,
when the vines are flowering will affect
setting also. You don’t mention the variety;
a white variety named Raisin Des Dames
has the habit mentioned. It is somewhat of
an oval shape, the berries being of a good
size, and when ripe of a light golden color.
The remaining berries on the bunch are
small and will never develop.
Cure for curly leaf in peach-trees? —ss3.
This fungus disease may be readily con-
trolled by Bordeaux mixture. The first appli-
cation should be made in the “dormant”
period before the bud scales relax. In
badly-infected plantations it is advisable to
follow this with a second spray just previous
to blossoming. The formula is 61b. copper
sulphate, 41b. lime and 40gal. water. In
your State (Tasmania) a good deal of
injury resulting to peach foliage is ascribed
to the leaf curl when the damage has been
caused by the peach aphis, for which the
distorted leaves make an ideal harbor. After
petal-fall it is desirable to spray varieties
with one or two applications of nicotine
sulphate at intervals of a fortnight to main-
tain effective control.
Method of ridding a wooden house of fleas?
—770.'
Allow no dogs, cats or fowls to' camp
under it. Wash floors well with hot water
containing a strong dash of phenol or sheep-
dip ; then spray or slop kerosene or turpen-
tine into all woodwork near the floors. Use
a fly spray on stuffed furniture, rugs and
mats, and destroy all rubbish and unwanted
clothing by fire. Persistence is necessary to
wipe out subsequent hatches, and treat-
ment must be kept up for three or four
weeks. If the soil round the house is of a
sandy nature, which harbors fleas, spray
with phenol and water. There is no quick
method; constant war must be waged on
the vermin to keep them down.
(1) What did Britain and the other
Allied Governments pay us for wheat pur-
chased, during the war years, and what pro-
fit did they make on the transactions? (2)
Similar information as regards wool? —524.
(1) The only details of the sales of wheat
during the war period are those available
under the operations of the Australian Wheat
Board, 1915-16 to 3921-22. During that
time overseas sales of wheat and flour
amounted to £127,761,000. No details of
the profit, if any, made by Allied Govern-
ments are available. It is unlikely that any
profit was made, because the wheat was
needed for immediate use by their own
nations. The British Government certainly
made an appreciable lo'ss on a considerable
part of its purchase. (2) The British
Government purchased the balance of the
3916-17 clip, together with the clips for
the years 3917-IS. 1938-39 and 1919-20,
at a flat rate of 15|d. per pound.
amounting for the four years to £154,80S, 1 000.
Profit resulting from the resale of wool was
divided equally between the Imperial Gov-
ernment and the woolgrowers in Australia :
the latter’s share amounted to £7,333,700.
The profit on wool was due to the large sur-
plus, for which there was no market, being
stored and realised at the high prices ruling
during years subsequent to the sale of the
wool to the British Government.
(1) How to dye rabbit sJcins black? (2)
Should they be dyed before or after tanning?
(3) llmu many skins are needed to make a
coat? (4) To whom could I send skins
to be made up? (5) Kind of material used
to cover the inside of a skin rug? —ss7.
(1) For good results logwood extract is
necessary—Sydney agents are Abel Lemon
and Co.. B. Bryce and Co., and the James
Ilardie Trading Co. Make up a mixture of
10 gallons water, 71b. logwood and 51b.
sumac by dissolving logwood in water (hot)
and adding sumac. Work skins in this bath
for two hours; then add 13oz. sulphate of
copper to mixture and handle skins inter-
mittently for five to six hours —that is, lift
them out of bath and let them drain fora few
minutes. Then expose skins to air and
allow to dry slowly. If the black is not a
good one put skins back and repeat work
for an hour or two. Put them back in
pairs, fur side out. Temperature of bath
for vegetable-tanned skins (bark, etc.)
should not be above 120 deg. Fall. Chrome-
tanned skins can bo dyed at 150 deg. Fall.
Before dyeing skins should be washed with
soap and left for 12 hours in a solution of
washing soda (lib. washing soda to 10
gallons water). (2) Dye after tanning.
(3) For a lady, 45 to 50. (4) Fur Dressers
and Dyers, 36 Chippendale-street, Sydney.
(5) Felt.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Yarri”: When culling horses don’t be in
a hurry, as many owners are, to get rid
of the colt that is rough and difficult to
break in. That horse has spirit and stamina,
and when quietened is usually a good worker
and tough.
“Tankimend” : When corrugated-iron tanks
develop small pin-point holes, try mending
with equal quantities of resin and fat melted
together, put on strong calico and applied
whilst hot. Hold the stuff to the place for
a few minutes, as it cools quickly.
“Mulgo”: Guttering is always painted on
the. outside for appearance, but very seldom
inside. Yet it is from the inside that it
rusts and rots. Dust settles in it, and that
becomes mud after rain, preventing the spout
drying quickly, and thus shortening its life.
A coat of paint inside more than doubles
its term of service.
“Sand Plain”: To rid country of briars,
cut them level with the ground and throw a
shovelful of salt on the cut. This is as
effective as feeding off and is specially suit-
able for scattered briar country. The heads
should be destroyed or heaped, otherwise
they may damage the clip.
“Bill R.” : To prevent cows slipping on the
floors of concreted bails or sheds, apply a
dilution of one part muriatic acid to' five
parts of water; this will pit the surface.
Allow the acid to remain until the required
roughening has occurred; then wash it off
thoroughly.
“A.C.8.”: When your watermelons are
about finished you can get another crop this
way. Cut off the vines about 6in. from
the crown and dust nitrate of soda lightly
about them. New runners will soon appear.
Keep well watered and cultivate ground
around young growths. The second crop
will ripen before the frosts, and though
the fruit may be lighter in the flesh it will
be of good quality; but the seeds will mostly
be small. These late melons sell avcll.
“E.H.M.” : To kill the smooth green cater-
pillars that attack cabbages and cauliflowers,
dissolve a tablespoon of salt in a gallon
of water; spray after sundown and the mix-
ture will not discolor the leaves.
“Jack Point”: To ensure that eggs for
the incubator are perfectly clean, atten-
tion must be paid to nests, nesting material
and floor litter. Plenty of nesting room
should be provided so that the liens won’t
find it necessary to lay on the floor; it may
consist of clean straw, shavings or sawdust.
There should also be sufficient roosts to en-
sure that the hens won’t have to sleep on
or in t,he nests. Where litter is kept on the
floor it should be changed often during the
breeding season.
“Kooragai” : A carpenter friend of mine
who had a lathe used to occupy his spare
time in making nest-eggs of tallow wood or
teak. At a pinch any farmer can chop them
out for himself, finishing off with a rasp.
Any hard, light-colored wood suits, and they
serve as well as bought china eggs.
“Briny”: Don’t scatter waste salt where
fowls can pick it up; heavy losses have
occurred that way. All waste beef-salt should
be saved up in a wooden container and placed
in troughs as a lick for stock. Cattle seem to
like this beef-salt better than rocksalt. When
there are no stock to feed it to salt may be
scattered about cultivation paddocks or in
the orchard.
“Kooragai”: If you want to propagate
native trees that are difficult to transplant,
cut some dry cornstalks into 6in. or Sin.
lengths, remove the pith, fill with soil and
black sand and place one seed in each.
Stand them in the ground in a sunny place,
and when the seedling is a few inches high,
transplant without removing it from the
stalk, making a hole deep enough to almost
cover the stalk. Young trees can be put
out in that way in any weather.
“A.C.8.”: Accumulation of the leaf mould
of ages is partly the cause of the extreme
richness of many of the N.S.W. North Coast
scrub lands. Potash added to the land by
the burning of the scrub timbers is another
help. I have seen a fine crop of maize taken
off between the blackened logs where it had
been chipped in with a hoc. Gardeners,
wherever practicable, should imitate Nature
and supply their land with as much leaf
mould as possible.
From J. F. Shannon, of Rodney Downs:—
Touching some remarks by “Bendee” (B. 8/6/’32),
Mr. John Beattie, of Kedron, was not injured at
Rodney Downs nor anywhere near it, and was never
employed by me here. I am still retaining patent
rights in my lambmarking cradle, and I feel sure Mr.
Beattie would not accept them if offered to him.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must he confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Whereabouts of William Milne Jeffs, formerly
patrol officer, New Guinea, believed to be in Vic.
—739.
To buy Parramatta Historical Society’s Journal,
vols. 1 and 2. —748.
Exchange Phoenix concrete-block mould for inter-
state wireless set, good oil cooking stove or good
slow-combustion stove.—746.
Nursery governess, Q’land, desires position with
persons travelling abroad. —769. .
To buy “Tales of the Convict System,” by Price
Waning.—7B3.
To hear from relatives or business associates of
John Memonitch, who died in Brisbane 15 years
ag0.—777.
Ex-teacher, N.S.W., book-keeping exp., seeks
position as station book-keeper and tutor. Refs.
—827.
Shearers’ cook, Vic., wants position. Refs.- —797.
To hear from anyone interested in rutile deposits
in S. Aiis. —799.
Copy of old song, “The Queen’s Maries.”—BoB.
Accountant, ex-Diggef, single, wants employment
of any sort, anywhere in Australia. Refs. —803.
To buy recent numbers of “Machinery.”—Bl7.
Information Sought.
(1) Chief products of the Cook Islands?
(2) How is land acquired there, and what
is the average rental? —590.
(1) Copra, bananas, oranges, tomatoes,
pineapples, coffee and pearlshell. (2) It
is all owned by the natives, and no native
may sell, mortgage or otherwise dispose of
his’ land. He may lease, subject to the
approval of the land Court, for a period
limited to 60 years. Rent depends on
value of land; minimum is 10s. per acre per
annum.
How are wash drawings made?— 439.
Wash drawings are made on Whatman’s
water-color paper. It is possible to apply
washes to either pencil or ink sketches pro-
vided the ink drawings are made in water-
proof Indian ink. Use lamp black or
process black for the washes and mix a
little soap on the brush for working over
pencil, as the paper is liable to resist the
wash a little. For body color, add a little
process white or Chinese white to the black
in proportion to the variety of tones re-
quired.
I have a house in Melbourne worth
roughly £lOOO, and wish to place it hi my
wife's name. (1) How do Igo about it?
(2) Approximate cost of transfer? (3)
How long after transfer before it becomes
legal? —s2l.
(1) You can buy a form at the Titles
Office, corner of Queen and Lonsdale streets,
Melbourne, or from any stationer who sells
legal forms —cost about sixpence.. Copy into
it exactly the description contained in the
Certificate of Title held by you, including
volume and folio of the official record; have
it witnessed and take it to the Titles Office,
where any assistance needed will be given
you. (2) About £lO. (3) Immediately on
completion of transfer.
(1) When was the Great Wall of China
built, and for what purpose? (2) Any
books about the wall? —497.
(1) It was built in the third century, 8.c.,
to defend the country against foreign in-
vasion. Following the windings, the wall
is 1500 miles long; the height is generally
from 20ft. to 30ft. and at intervals of 200
yards or so there are towers about 40ft.
high. The base is from 15ft. to 25ft. thick ;
the summit 12ft. wide. The wall has ceased
to exist in many places. (2) “The Great
Wall of China,” by W. E. Giel; and
“Journey in North China,” by A. William-
son.
I can play the ordinary game of casino.
Can you tell me how to play (1) royal
casino and (2) spade casino? —494.
(1) It is played in the same way as the
ordinary game, except that the court cards
come into action. Aces count one or 14, at
the option of the player; kings count 13,
queens 12, knaves 11. Hence a 7 and a 4 can
be taken with a knave, a 7, 4 and 2 with
a king, and so on. (2) In this variety
(which may be played either as royal or
“straight” casino) each card in spades
counts one point for game, the jack count-
ing two. Sixty-one points go to game ;
points are scored on a cribbage-board as
soon as made, and all the cards remain to be
counted at the end of play. Ace and deuce
in spade casino count two.
In what manner was the Federal Parlia-
ment empowered to over-ride the legislation
of the Lang Government levying a capital
tax on mortgages, and how did the Federal
Parliament become clothed with such power?
—623.
Where two statutory enactments covering
the same subject matter are passed, one by
the Federal Government and the other by
a. State Government, the Federal Constitu-
tion provides that the former shall prevail.
Here the State passed a Mortgage Tax Act,
and immediately the Federal Government
enacted over-riding legislation.
Would the installation of an outboard
motor on a speedboat, in addition to the in-
board motor, increase the speed?— 6lB.
No, as the propeller of the outboard
engine would be moving in the slip stream
of the main screw.
(1) What is selectivity in a receiver?
(2) Upon what factors does it chiefly de-
pend? (3) Meaning of 10KG selectivity?
—7Ol.
(1) The ability of a receiver to respond
(o signals _ from one transmitting station
without being affected by or responding to
signals from other stations on nearly the
same wave length. (2) Chiefly on the design
and number of tuned stages in a receiver
and on the size of aerial. _ A receiver em-
ploying four tuned stages is more selective
than one with only three. (3) A receiver
may be said to possess 10KG selectivity if
it can receive a certain broadcasting station
without interference from a second, trans-
mitting on a frequency 10,000 cycles above
or below first station, when both transmit-
ters are at a reasonable distance from
receiver.
Is there any cheap method of patenting
or protecting an invention until finance can
be obtained to meet patent-attorney's costs?
—523.
Provisional protection for nine months
can be obtained. During this period the
invention may be demonstrated. You might
risk disclosing the invention in confidence
to someone likely to be willing to finance
the preliminary stages. Call on one of the
patent attorneys advertising in this issue —•
.see “Wild Gat” Column.
(1) How to make asbestos cement? (2)
Would it be possible for a man with a good
knowledge of cement to make roofing tiles
of this nature? (3) If a press is needed
would an old hand latter press do? (4)
Price per ton, and where to procure asbestos?
—287.
(1) Take 1 part powdered _ asbestos, 1
part fine sand and 2 parts sodium silicate.
Experience is necessary in handling these
materials in hulk. (2) They would be more
troublesome and expensive than any of the
usual roofing tiles or iron, and probably un-
satisfactory ; and they would not pay to
make for .sale, as they arc not in demand,
other tiles being preferred. (3) Yes, but
very slow. (4) Write Hardie’s Asbestos
Co., Camellia, near Granville (N.S.W.).
(1) How many insulators are required at
each end of a wireless receiving aerial? (2)
Precautions necessary to make an electric
set free from danger? —7Bl.
(1) One at each end, provided it is a
good insulator. Pyrex or porcelain will be
found suitable. (2) None, provided the set
is made by a reputable firm and is con-
nected correctly to the power supply and
to the aerial by the service mechanic. Never
open the lid of the wireless cabinet to make
internal adjustments until you have first
disconnected the receiver from the power
supply. In any case, adjustments should
not be necessary except to replace defective
valves.
Has the planet Venus a satellite? —607.
No reliable evidence is available. During
the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries
Cassini at Paris, Short in England and other
observers saw an object which had the
appearance of a satellite. But as no such
thing has been seen with the best instru-
ments of recent times, the supposed object
probably was what is known to the astrono-
mer as a “ghost,” produced by refraction
from the lenses.
(1) How is calcium carbide manufac-
tured? (2) What process docs it under-
go before being ready for commercial use?
—709.
(1) By fusing together very pure coke
or high carbon anthracite coal and very pure
lime in an electric furnace. (2) The car-
bide is allowed to cool, and is then broken
up into lumps. Owing to its affinity for
water, it must be packed in moisture-proof
containers.
(1) Reasons for overprinting certain Com-
monwealth stamps “specimen”? (2) Their
value as compared ' with the same stamps
used?—' 773.
(1) The P.M.G.’s Dept, has, from time to
time, placed on sale at various post offices
sets of postage stamps cancelled to order,
but owing to objections from philatelists it
was decided to replace the higher values by
the stamps overprinted “specimen.” (2)
About one-third.
(1) Arc stock plants better when raised
from seeds than from cuttings? (2) Will
they bloom for more than one year?- —753.
(1) There is little between the methods,
except that you are likely to get more
double flowers from cuttings. (2) Stock
plants bloom just as well in the second
year as the first, and will even flower up
to the fourth year, though blooms are inferior.
Is it possible for an Australian to join
the British Army in India? Any previous
training necessary? Where can I get further
information ?- —447.
Troops of the British Army in India and
in certain other parts of the Empire are
regular troo'ps, recruited in and maintained
by drafts sent from Britain only. Regi-
ments of the British Army are sent from
time to time for service in India. Troops of
the Indian Army are natives of India and are
recruited in India only. Should you desire
to enlist in the British Regular Army, it
would be necessary for you to proceed to
England at your own expense and apply
personally at one of the regimental recruit-
ing depots. Better communicate first with
Secretary, War Office, Whitehall, London.
S.W.I, from whom full particulars could be
obtained. Previous military training would
be of service, but is not essential to enlist-
ment.
Treatment for a three-year-old cocker
spaniel with bad ears. There is a nasty dis-
charge from both and the animal is nearly
deaf? —700,
Trouble is apparently canker. The ear
should be swabbed with pure peroxide
of hydrogen once a day; use cottonwool held
by small forceps. After three days’ treat-
ment, cleanse with warm water, then dry and
afterwards swab with a solution of nitrate
of silver, 3 grains to loz. distilled water.
Feed carefully giving a fair amount of vege-;
tables mixed in gravy.
(1) Why is cement mortar preferable to
lime mortar for bricking in a copper? (-)
Will it stand heat nearly as well?—AM.
(1) Greater strength is attained with
cement than with lime. (2) It will stand
heat if properly prepared arid cured. A
mix of 1 part of cement to 3 parts of sand,
with the smallest quantity of water that
will enable sand and cement to be packed
together, is ideal. If this mortar is rammed
into place and kept damp for several days,
then allowed to dry out thoroughly before
heat is applied, no trouble should be experi-
enced in keeping the copper in position.
In an old Bulletin I noticed a reference
to batfish. Can you tell me anything about
them?— -487. . . ..
They are tropical fish which swim in small
schools and are widely distributed. They
are rounded and sometimes of greater depth
than length. The upper and lower processes
of the vertebral column commonly develop
large bony bosses. The silver batfish, an
allied species of similar habits and distribu-
tion, is common on Australian coasts, extend-
ing southward to Sydney.
How to remove indelible-pencil marks
from a good woollen material?— 7l4.
Damp material, lay it over a clean, loiciecl
cloth and dab with cloudy ammonia on a
small sponge: wash quickly in warm suds.
If this fails, soak fabric in warm water,
squeeze well and lay out over a folded cloth.
Apply a few drops of liquid ammonia of
specific gravity 0.801 to the spot, and dab
with a wad of cotton saturated with dilute
phosphoric acid. Repeat and dry in the
sun as soon as the stains have gone. As
your material is a good woollen one, experi-
ment on a scrap first to ascertain effect ot
treatment and possible damage.
An Australian co. has a flagstaff from
which on certain days a flag is flown. What
is the correct flag to fly on, say, Foundation
Day, Anzac Day, Empire Day and Kings
Birthday? If two flag staffs are provided
what is the position?— 43B.
It would be appropriate for the co. to fly
the Australian merchant flag (known as the
Australian Red Ensign) or the Union Jack.
If it is desired to fly two, both flags could
be flown, either on separate masts, or, if
on the one mast, at either end of a yard-
arm. Neither should be flown in a position
inferior to the other. This applies only to
the flying of flags ashore.
(1) How to make a good multigraph, and
copying ink for it? (2) How to make a
good ink for fountain-pens? —7l3.
(1) Melt together 1 part of good glue, 2
parts water and 4 parts glycerine, all by
weight, evaporating some of the water by
allowing it to steam a little. If a cold
climate, use a little more glycerine; if a
hot one, add a little more glue. Test by
cooling a small portion, and if of the right
consistency, pour off into a shallow pan and
allow’ to set. Glean glue must be used, or
the mixture must be strained; air bubbles
must be removed by skimming the surface
with a piece of cardboard or stout paper.
After use, clean with a wet sponge and
wipe dry. To make a good black ink, dis-
solve together by heat 10 partsi resorcin blue
M, 1 part dilute acetic acid, 85 parts water,
4 parts glycerine and 10 parts water. (2)
Almost impossible for the amateur; better
buy it.
(1) Can a satisfactory cement fob be
made using sea water to mix? (2) Can
salt sand be used? (3) May broken-up
coral be substituted for stones? —736.
(1) Sea water can be used for mixing
concrete, provided it is free from organic
matter — i.e., small traces of seaweed —and
reinforcement is not used in the concrete.
There are occasions when reinforcement is
permissible, but this construction calls for
expert knowledge and experience. (2) Salt
sand can be used with success in concrete,
except for interior work. Traces of salt
are liable to absorb moisture and cause un-
sightly patches on the wall. For such ex-
terior purposes as paths, salt sand can be
used with success. (3) Same applies to
broken-up coral as to (1) and (2). It must
be clean.
Best ingredient to mix with tobacco to
give it a pleasant perfume? —679.
If the tobacco is of your own growing or
locally-grown, it is a breach of the law to
prepare it for smoking without permission
from the Customs, to which excise duty is
payable. Perfuming tobacco is known as
saucing it, and the smoker may choose any
oils or perfumes he prefers. Some of the
liquids used are rum, sour wine, oil of
aniseed, tincture of valerian, powdered
cloves, cinnamon and liquorice. Sprinkle
well on the chopped leaf, mix together and
keep in a covered humidor.
(1) How to polish turtle-shell? (2)
What is meant by buffing a shell?— 751.
(1) Glean the shell with soap and w’ater,
and wipe dry. Then dip a piece of rolled
cotton-wool on a stick in spirits of salt
(muriatic acid) and work quickly and
evenly over the shell; rinse off in cold water
and polish with a silk duster. Do not allow
the acid to dwell in position, and keep it
off the fingers. (2) Polishing done with
a linen or cotton buffer on a fast revolving
spindle driven by machine, the article to be
polished being held against the buffer. It
is unsuitable for shell work.
How to make almond meal? —7s6.
The skins of shelled almonds are removed
with boiling water. The cleaned white
almond meats are then crushed for their
oil, which is separated, and the white resi-
due is reduced to fine meal in a mincer. If
not fine enough, pound in a stout basin with
a wooden masher.
Is tin “air-pocket” a partial vacuum in the
atmosphere, and how is it caused? —6Bl.
The term isn’t used by flyers; the thing is
caused by descending currents of air which
make the aeroplane drop until the current
has been passed, or by changes in the den-
sity of the atmosphere of the nature that
would be experienced on a hot, still day
when small cumulus clouds are frequent.
The effect of this is to make the aircraft con-
tinually rise and fall.
Does Anybody Know?
Source from which the quotation “With
the same hopes and fears and aspirations” is
taken?—7Bo.
Brief Answers.
D.C.: The 1930-31 loss on the N.S.W.
Government railways was £4,421,620... .0.0.: Too
early yet to judse whether it is a success. It is a
secret process, which has been patented, and there-
fore it is impossible to carry out a test under
Government supervision. .. .8.M.: N.S.W. Public
Trustee cannot afford you any assistance. He has
no direct, dealings with finance bodies of the char-
acter referred to, as beneficiaries desiring to dispose
of their interests in estates usually negotiate with
them direct. .. .E.H.: (1) In 1916, registration fee
for a private ear was £1 ; tax payable varied
according to h.p. (2) Number-plates were usually
issued in consecutive order, but occasionally returned
plates would be re-issued. Highest number issued
would not necessarily mean that there \v%re that
number of vehicles in use at the time.... J.D.A.:
N.S.W. police contribute 4 per cent, of their pay to
a pension fund. Other sources of revenue are
penalties imposed on members of the force, penalties
and damages awarded to the police as prosecutors,
and proceeds of the sale of unclaimed g00d5....
R.J.Iv.: (1) T. J. Ryan died August 1, 1921. (2)
He was Premier of Q’land .from June 1, 1910 to
October 22, 1919 ; E. G. Theodore from October 22,
1919 to Feb. 26, 1925; W. N. Gillies from Feb. 26,
1925 to Oct. 22, 1925; W. McCormack from Oct.
22, 1925 to May 21, 1929 ; A. E. Moore front May
21, 1929 to June 11, 1932 ; W. Forgan Smith suc-
ceeded him on that date. (3) December 26, 1908, at
Sydney... .A. 0.: See “Whitaker’s Almanack” for
1932 ; full details on page 532... .H.A.J.: N.S.W.
National Art Gallery has his “South Sea Whaling
off Twofold Bay.” There are also several of his
paintings in the Mitchell Library, Sydney, one
(“H.M.S. Black Prince in a Gale”) being probably
his best. .. ,0,B.: They are sordid wood-swallows.
They roost in a cluster, the birds hanging on to
one another like bees in a swarm.... L.F.8.: Write
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Asbestos House, York
and Barrack streets, Sydney.... F.C.A.: Experts are
unable to explain the oily appearance of the wakes
or tracks left by vessels in calm water. This is
more noticeable at sunset than any other time....
E. : Don’t know of anyone in Australia who
buys original puzzles. Those used here are got
from overseas press syndicates. .. .G. 8.: (1) and (2)
A usual form of printed receipt shows the amount
“Due,” “Paid,” “Owing”: books of them can be
bought from stationers. Advisable to insert amount
owing, but omission does not affect its validity.
(3) Not aware of such a regulation. (4) You could
sue, but Ejectments Postponement Act would stand
in the way of recovering immediate possession if
tenant could show he was in impoverished circum-
stances. .. .A.S.: Applicants for naturalisation may
get forms and particulars from Inspector, Common-
wealth Investigation Branch, in their capital city,
or direct from Dept, of the Interior; fee for a cer-
tificate is £3. .. .K.A.G.P.: (1) Can’t furnish a
person’s private address without permission. (2)
Write N.S.W. Aero Club, 16 Barrack-street, Sydney.
... . W.H.T.H.: Write Commonwealth Statistician,
Canberra. .. .J.K.: Get an old tank or deep box,
sink it in sand or soil, fill with sand as near the
natural condition’ as possible, and keep them there.
Dig up as required... .A.S.: Florescan bronze colors
in liquid or powder form are obtainable from Pen-
folds, 88 Pitt-street, Sydney... .Y.H.: Write Richard-
son Gears, Whitehall-street, Footseray (Vic.)....
F. : Nothing to prevent a Methodist minister
performing the ceremony where his daughter is the
bride... .F.R.M.: “The World Almanac,” obtainable
from Dymock’s, should suit your purpose... .G.T.:
Only candidates who intend to make arms their
profession will be admitted as cadets to the Royal
Military College of Aust. Parents are not at liberty
to withdraw their sons at wi11... .H.R.: Presume
you refer to Renata’s speech and letter to the
Superintendent of Hawke’s Bay on the Taranaki War
question, published in Maori, with an English trans-
lation, at Wellington in 1861. If you have a copy
it is worth at least £2 2s H.D.: James Back-
house came out in 1831 in charge of the first
mission undertaken by Quakers in Australia. During
three years he visited every gaol, convict settle-
ment and chain-gang in Tasmania, and then spent
two years on similar work in N.S.W.; he also
visited Flinders and Norfolk islands. He was nine
years here and was instrumental in introducing
many important reforms... .M.J.: See Edward
Howell, Director, Independent School of Stagecraft,
60 King-street, Sydney... .J.R.: No active volcanoes
in Papua, though a film of steam is sometimes seen
rising from Mount Victory, near Cape Nelson. Hot
sulphur springs are found on Ferguson Island....
T.F.8.: Write William Lewis, 143 York-street,
Sydney... .A.J.H.: Write Secretary, Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research, Melbourne
E.M.8.: (1) Get in touch with Will Andrade, 173
Pitt-street, Sydney. (2) It could be copyrighted in
its unpublished form by lodging a copy with Copy-
right Office, Sydney, and paying registration fee
of 5s A.V.T.: 321, made by Jack Howe, at.
Alice Downs (Q.), in 1892. The day’s run was
Bhr. 40min., but Howe started later than the other
men and left off earlier... .S.G.: Trewhella Bros.,
Trentham (Vic.) ... . W.K.: Passiflom edulis (com-
mon passion-fruit) is a native of South America. It
is also cultivated in M.L. and small areas are grown
in California... .J.S.: Law relating to capital
punishment has not been recently altered... .A.C.S.:
Largest attendance at a football match on Sydney
C. G. was at England v. Aus., June 16, 1932;
70,204. Largest attendance at a cricket match was
at England v. Aus., December 15, 1928; 58,446....
R. J.D.: The Spahlinger formula; relate only to
vaccines to be administered to (a) bovine animals,
(6) human beings, for prevention of tuberculosis.
No remedy for tuberculosis in human beings was
included in the formulae received by the Common-
wealth Government, nor were any supplies of
Spahlinger serum sent.—Liv.: Write Rabbit Fur
Farmers’ Assoc., Box 1104 H, G.P.0., Sydney....
J.J.M.H.: Cannot trace formula... .J.J.0.5.: (1)
Machinery and Electrical Co., 294 Oxford-street,
Sydney. (2) J-h.p. motor will cost about £B.
Particulars as to speed and h.p. of generator and
supply power should be forwarded... .G.D.: Pam-
phlets on the subject may be got free from Dept, of
Agriculture, Sydney... .H. 8.8.: Yes; from any of
the various institutes which advertise in the “S. M.
Herald” on Saturdays. .. .W.C.C.: Boonkun, grow-
ing ; Belbourie, brushy creeks; Bularra, several
waters; Bundilla, meeting of the waters; Bunda-
uoon, place of deep gullies; Nyngan, place of many
streams. .. .W.T.S.: Soccer football teams have visited
Australia in recent years from Maoriland (1923),
China (1923 and 1927), Canada (1924), England
(1925) and Czecho-Slovakia (1927) ... .R.K.:
British Motor Cycle Co., 46 Went worth-avenue,
Sydney W.A.M.: N.S.W. Rent Reduction Act in-
cludes as premises affected by it “any part of a
building separately leased.” Every “letting” is
construed to be a lease. You are entitled to full
reduction from your landlord; and sub-lessees, your
tenants, are entitled to the same reduction from
you... . G.A.J.: Your only course is to seek advice
of a reputable teacher. Impossible to diagnose such
faults, without personal investigation J.W.R.:
Cannot trace Australian agents. Any firm that
specialises in surgical instruments could import it
for you (Many others mailed).


DOPE
BY
GRANTLEY LORRENS.
Synopsis : Ernest William Johns,
M.A. Oxon., cocaine addict and desti-
tute, saves Etty Smith from, a
half-breed’s knife in a Sydney water-
front “dive” Aboard the Surf
Queen, he accepts her father’s offer
of a steady job and a chance to regain
his health. Etty helps him fight his
cravings. As she tends him Johns
realises that she, who is far short of
his ideal, loves him. When Varley,
one-time medical student, how the
cook, confesses he loves Etty, Johns
agrees it is only right to tell her he,
Johns, does not love her; but keeps
putting this off. At Lola Panga Fay
Campbell, on a cruise in her father’s
steam yacht, Arethusa, visits Etty—
and Johns meets his ideal. Campbell
is astounded when Johns refuses his
offer of assistance. That night, in-
spired by Varley, .Johns deserts, stow-
ing away in the Arethusa’s life-boat.
He hears Fay discuss him, and she
scarcely conceals her interest in him
from her father. Racked by his crav-
ings, Johns sneaks ashore at Zandavar
to Varley’s friend, Wooden Charlie,
half-caste owner of a drinking-hell,
who gives him dope and, later, a job.
Meeting the Campbells, ostensibly by
accident, Johns takes Fay motoring
before she sails. In the moonlight he
confesses his weakness: she is sure he
will conquer it. Mutual aid and under-
standing make Johns and Charlie as
brothers. So that he can get Johns
away to quietness to concentrate on
writing his “great book,” Charlie is
sidling his joint when a drink-erased
Yankee shoots him. The place takes
fire. Frantic with grief Johns man-
ages to drag Charlie’s body from the
burning.
BOOK lII—THE SPINDRIFT.
Chapter II ( Continued .)
JOHNS found himself pressed irresistibly.
A human millstone was on either side
of him, squeezing, squeezing closer and
closer to him, so that his breath came with
difficulty and his ribs seemed caving in-
wards. He felt that he could not stand
that awful pressure another moment; it
was more than he could bear—that, and the
ever-growing throbbing of his supra-orbital
nerves.
Then, suddenly, miraculously, the tension
eased. The tide was flowing now in one
direction only—out of the street of fire—
and he was carried with it, willy-nilly,
breathing in great sobbing gasps that
racked him from head to foot.
As he reached the corner of the street,
a shout of terror from behind startled the
night as the front wall of Wooden Charlie’s
building leaned- suddenly forward, stayed
immobile for a space as though seeking to
recover its equilibrium and then, continu-
ing its course, smothered the street in a
sudden avalanche of scorching fire and
choking dust; and underneath the aval-
anche, Johns realised with a shudder, there
were human beings—or Things that but a
moment before had been human beings.
He turned and ran blindly. He thrust
his way, white-lipped and starting-eyed,
through the jostling people who gave way
hurriedly—they had no desire to hinder a
madman in his flight. And Ernest William
Johns, M.A. Oxon., at that hour was mad.
Mad from the lack of cocaine, mad from
the evening’s shocks, and mad from the
loss of his friend. A numb, inarticulate
madness—a madness that froze his brain
so that he had no coherent thoughts, so
that he scarcely knew that he was running.
But through the dark shadows of the
night one incident stood out clearly in his
memory for years afterwards. It stood
out with the clarity of a nightmare.
He had been running for God alone knew
how long when he found himself in a
narrow cul-de-sac. A little sanity returned
to him as the pain from his bruised fingers
showed him the futility of trying to thrust
the wall from his path. He cackled in-
anely as he blew eoolingly on his raw hands.
“Fool!” he told himself, and cackled
again. “This way out!” He bowed politely
to the unresponsive wall, and turned to
stagger back along the way that he had
come.
He stopped suddenly as a figure appeared
at the entrance to the lane. Someone was
creeping stealthily, and Johns stopped to
watch. Suddenly the moon glinted on the
blade of a knife.
“He’s after you!” Johns whispered the
words to himself. “And it’s moonlight!”
The thought jolted him. It was so utterly
ridiculous that the moon should be calmly
riding out her predestined course on that
night of hell and fire and agony! With
the stealth and cunning of a cornered rat
Johns prepared himself for the attack. The
urge of danger had steadied him for the
minute.
Relentlessly, remorselessly as death itself,
the figure crept on towards him. It was
emboldened by the slight swaying of its
prospective victim. A reveller, stupid with
alcohol, it doubtless thought, and, as such,
ripe for the plucking. And Johns stood
waiting, in his heart the spirit of murder.
For he had discovered to his amazement
that the revolver with which he had fired
unsuccessfully at the drunken Yankee was
in his pocket. Or, rather, had been until
a moment before. Now it was in his hand,
the cold steel burning afresh the raw blis-
ters.
The figure sprang suddenly. But not so
suddenly that Johns, every nerve and
muscle rigid with anger and the lust to
kill, was unprepared. The upraised hand,
with its gleaming knife, he caught and
held, staggering back under the momentum
of the other’s rush. For a second he found
himself staring into a swarthy face whose
eyes gleamed astoundedly at the unex-
pected resistance. The mouth opened to
emit a curse, and by the light of the moon,
full and leaning towards the west, Johns
saw the glisten of moist mucous membrane.
It was a perfect target, and, as the head
jerked backwards under the impetus of the
bullet, and then suddenly forwards again,
as though on elastic, Johns shook with
laughter. It was too humorous. His knees
suddenly grew weak so that he had to let
the corpse fall to keep his balance, and for
a moment he stood swaying drunkenly, and
brushing from his hand a nauseating pulp.
Then, blindly, and without objective, he
started again to run.
It was the painful throbbing of his heart-
that finally brought him to a standstill.
If the Seven Devils themselves had been
at his heels he could not have moved an-
other step until that palpitation had eased
away. The blood pounded through his
ears like the tom-toms of death.
He did not realise that he was half-lean-
ing against a doorway until he heard the
handle turn.
“Well, I’m damned!”
It was a woman’s voice, and the words
were English! Johns doubted the evidence
of his senses. It was another dream, an-
other nightmare of that Night of Hell.
Englishwomen did not live in these streets.
With an effort, still half-leaning against
the bricks, Johns turned weakly towards
the light that came from the open door.
“Fay!”
The exclamation was wrung from his
lips. For the light, shining along the pass-
age had limned a halo of golden hair.
He did not stop to reason. He held out
his hands eagerly, appealingly, like a child.
Things were going black. The throbbing
in his supra-orbital nerves had drowned the
tom-toms that had been drumming in his
ears.
“Fay!” he whispered, and the word was
like a tired child’s “Mother” “Fay!”
Chapter 111.
Somewhere hidden by the mists of pain
a voice was singing softly. The sounds
came to him intermittently, between the
spasms of physical misery that shook him
like an ague. It was a plaintive little
melody that the voice was making, and, as
his mind cleared a little, he recognised it,
and the words, fragmentarily heard, recalled
the song to him. For a moment he thought
himself to be back in the Savoy Theatre:
“Hearts do not break
They pine and ache” ....
The voice stopped suddenly as Johns
opened his eyes.
“Waken the Sleeping Beauty! Enter
Princess Charming!” the voice said and
Johns heard the sound of light footsteps.
An instant later a face was bending over
him, and again he saw the golden halo.
His mind was a little clearer now; his phy-
sical exhaustion was less; and he realised
that his was no dream, and that the girl
who bent over him—the girl who had
opened the door to find him on the step—
was not Fay. He turned his heacT wearily
to one side and the girl chuckled.
“Tinkle, tinkle, crash, crash!” she
observed. “My luck’s not in. Still, if
you’re partial to red hair”
“What do you mean?” Johns’s voice was
querulous. What the devil did she mean?
His mind was in no mood for riddles.
“God! how my head aches!” He turned
towards her again sharply, peremptorily.
“Get me something, for God’s sake! \
can’t stand this for ever!” and his hands
went to his forehead.
The girl eyed him analytically for a
moment.
“It’s cocaine you want, isn’t it?” she said,
as a statement of fact, and barely waited
for his nod. Johns listened to her foot-
steps as she crossed
the room to the door.
They were lost for a
minute in the hallway,
and then she returned
to him.
' He took the wisp of
paper eagerly; the
tiny particles, settling
on his nasal mucous
membrane, soothed
him as nothing else
could have done. He
knew the girl was
watching him curi-
ously, but he closed
his eyes, ignoring her,
and allowing the drug to take its full
effect. Then, when his nerves were com-
paratively at rest, he looked at her again,
studying her carefully, feature by feature.
The hair he passed over almost without
pause. It was like Fay’s—no wonder that
at the doorway his fevered mind had
jumped to a conclusion, he told himself; but
it was different. The color was less rich,
the fuzziness a little more pronounced, a
little artificial.
Her nose was a little too pointed, per-
haps, with the alee too prominent. He
realised that her lips were the only feature
to bespeak her calling. Her eyes were grey
and very candid, so much so that he
doubted his summing-up of her. And the
more so still when she looked away from
him at some picture hanging on the wall.
For then her eyes became far-away, dreamy
—the eyes of a weaver of visions—and her
v/hole expression changed, so that she be-
came almost etherealised. It was as though
the spirit of the girl for a fleeting moment
had replaced the material body. It was in
this mood that she looked at him again,
a faint wistful smile smoothing the loose-
ness from her lips.
“A rude awakening, isn’t it?”
Her voice was not bitter, rather it was
apologetic, and the faint smile trembled a
little. Then suddenly the spirit slipped
away, intangibly, and the girl of the flesh
was there again.
“Well sonny!” Her voice held the ban-
tering and yet defensive tone that had been
there when she had first spoken to him.
“Well, sonny, you’re one of these impetu-
ous lads, eh? You must have been in a
terrible hurry to get here!” She stared at
him sardonically and the expression in her
eyes was a physical hurt to him. She was
a white woman, and she was—there!
He watched her as she lighted a cigar-
ette, as she eyed him appraisingly across
the tiny flame of the sputtering match.
“You’re a gentleman!” she said suddenly.
“You don’t belong here. What’s the
matter?”
As she waited for his answer she drew
the smoke into her lungs. Her eyes filled
with agonised tears, and the cough that
suddenly racked her di-ew Johns to his feet,
in futile eagerness to be of assistance.
When the spasm had passed she leaned
against the table gasping.
“God, what a fool I am! I know I
shouldn’t do it!” She shook her head at
him, impatient of her own folly. “It’ll kill
me one of these days.” As she furtively
pressed the handkerchief to her lips Johns
saw a faint red stain on it.
“My dear girl”
She shook his hand from her shoulder.
“Don’t touch me!” Her voice was bitter.
Suddenly she wheeled on him, her head
thrown back, her eyes blazing with the
anger of humiliation.
“Don’t touch me! You a gentleman—
and I a common”
“Please!” Johns’s voice was sharp with
anxiety to spare her her self-mortification,
and this time she did not shake off the
hand that squeezed her elbow. “Please!
Who am I that you should speak like that?
Perhaps, once, I was a gentleman”—his
words came quickly, tumbling over them-
selves in his effort to restore her self-con-
trol. “Once, perhaps. But, my God, it
was a long time ago! lam a drug fiend—
as. you have seen—a cadger, once even a
thief. And to-night”—a v sudden shudder
passed through him, and the girl forgot her
own abasement in the agony that came into
his voice—“and to-night, God help me, a
murderer!”
The other was quick to sense his urgent
need. She pulled him to a seat beside her
on the sofa where he had been lying.
“Tell me,” she said gently. “I can’t be-
lieye that, you know.”
Again the spirit seemed to have replaced
the flesh, and Johns found relief in talking
to her. At first rapidly, almost incoher-
ently and then more slowly, soberly, tracing
through four years the events that had
culminated in bringing him to her door-
vvay that night. When he came to the
description of the drunken American who
had murdered Wooden Charlie, she made
him pause to think carefully. Had he
noticed a scar on the man’s cheek? A long,
ugly scar? She seemed disappointed when
he could not be certain, but nodded in
satisfaction when he repeated the man’s
words, with the little trick of, “Me, I”
“Yes,” she murmured. “That was he.
‘Me, I’m a wonderful fellow. Me, I get
the girls tied round my little finger.’ And
lie was nearly under the lamps when they
fell? So he might be dead perhaps?” She
nodded again, contentedly, and urged him
on to the completion of his stoiy, at times
almost dragging out of him the words that
haltingly described the shooting in the lane.
As he held up his right hand, staring at
it as though, even now, to discredit its
actions, she seized it impulsively and kissed
it.
“Murder?” She smiled at him from above
his knuckles. “Murder? In self-defence?
Use your commonsense, man! If you
hadn’t killed him he’d have done for you.”
Johns nodded, and she laughed, gladly.
“Well, surely you’ve got enough gump-
tion to know that that was no murder!
Why, even I know that much!” And she
talked to him, and at him, one minute
cajoling him and the next berating him for
his foolishness, for his idiotic conscience,
until she saw that he was convinced, even
though almost against his will.
Then she brought him supper, and: made
bed for him on the sofa.
As she was spreading the sheets she
glanced at him to find him with his . eyes
on her, compassionately. She flushed, and
laughed awkwardly. Then suddenly, to hi-
horror, she started to cry. But not loudly,
not blatantly ; it was not done for effect.
Her lips trembled, and, as she bit angrily
at them, tears sprang to her eyes. There
was no sobbing, no hysterical outburst of
self-denunciation. Johns knew that he
would have felt less unhappy if there had
been. That terrible welling, soundlessly, of
the tears of shame racked him as no physi-
cal pain could have done. The girl’s like-
ness to Fay was intensified at that moment,
so that Johns felt an irresistible impulse
to take her in his arms and comfort her.
She did not misunderstand his action.
Like a tired child she leaned against his
shoulder and no longer tried to hold her-
self in check. The presence of a fellow-
countryman, and a gentleman, in that par-
lor of meretricious gaudiness, broke down
the barriers that her spirit had erected be-
tween her ego and the “living” which kept
her body and soul, perhaps unwillingly,
together.
A little later she talked to him, while
he listened quietly.
When her voice at length died away he
drew her down to the sofa beside him.
“You’ve finished with that life,” he told
her, and his voice was gentle, but it had
the ring of conviction in it. “I’m going
to take you away somewhere, so that you
can rehabilitate—as I am going to do. 1
couldn’t leave you here.” He» waved hei
into silence as she started to speak. “Of
course I am! Where would I have been
if it was not for you? Suppose you had
been a different”
He broke off as he felt her shoulders
suddenly stiffen under his arm as it lay
across them. “I don’t mean that. Please.
I wouldn’t hurt you for the world. I meant,
suppose you had lost all your humanity.”
It was difficult, finding words that would
not hurt. “Suppose you had slammed the
door in my face when you saw the state
I was in. God knows where I would have
been by now! I was at my last gasp—
mentally as well as physically. I was slip-
ping back, and you saved me on the brink.
Ye’re both derelicts, but we can help each
other, surely, to get back?”
The girl’s eyes were on him, wistfully,
and her lips were parted, so that her tongue
showed a tiny point of pink moisture.
There were still beads of moisture on her
lashes, turning them to burnished gold.
Johns drew a breath sharply as the truth
sprang to his mind—she was pretty, and,
with the light of hope in her eyes, almost
beautiful. With his finger he touched re-
verently a tiny curl that lay moist on her
forehead.
“You remind me,” he said softly, “of
someone who has helped me wonderfully.
It makes me feel”—he was trying to force
his argument home, but there was no
doubting the sincerity of the words he used
—“it makes me feel that lam repaying,
perhaps vicariously, a. little of the debt I
owe.”
“You mean to Fay?” the girl asked
softly.
Johns nodded.
“And you’re going to marry her some
day?”
“God knows.” His voice was harsh with
sudden misery. “God only know's! If
ever I get over this damnable craving, per-
haps. But even that is only the first step.
Then there is my book to write, and then
and by then, I suppose, she will be
married to someone more deserving.”
She patted his arm.
“I am going to let you take me away
with you. You can take me away from
this life. And in return I’ll cure you of
your craving—and send you home to Fay.”
She smiled at him suddenly, sweetly.
“Some day I think Fay will be verv proud
of you,” she whispered. “And I should like
to think that I have had a share in making
her proud.”
Johns shook his head.
“I don’t know why,” he said humbly.
“I m not worth it—and yet everybody helps
me. They’ve got more faith in me than
I have in myself! From Gabriel onwards
—they’ve all been the same. And now
you.”
“The answer should be obvious.” She
laughed softly. “And I shall not be the
last. Captain Gibbons will help too—both
of us. He’s the captain of the Spindrift.”
She answered his look of inquiry haltingly.
“The Spindrift is sailing at six this morn-
ing. I happen to know that, because he
told me so—last night.”
“Good God!” Johns was agitated. “You
don t mean that! You surely aren’t going
to”
Her head was flung back in sudden arro-
gance.
Yhy not?' she asked, and the candid
gicv e\'Os searched his soul. “Why not?
I can pay my way—in cash!”


WHEN THE
ENGINE ITOPf
N
L/i
m
t
If the engine should stop at a crowded crossing
and the constabulary eye is on you ; if it’s a cold
and frosty morning and you must really catch the
8.45 ; if your womenfolk are waiting in the small
hours while you fetch the car—at all these and
other such critical moments, it is a solid satisfac-
tion to have a battery which acts without luss
and without fail. Instal the Exide. Treat your-
self to the comfort and confidence which come
of its robust physique and vast reserves.
£xti>e
THE LON* LIFE BATTERY
FOR STARTING AND LICHTIN*
Obtainable from your Local Garage,
Car Dealer or Exide Service Station
WHEN IT’S AN...
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Brisbane:
Exide Battery Service (Q.)> Ltd.
Sydney:
Exide Battery Service (Gibson, Battle and
Co., Ltd.).
Melbourne:
A. P. Sutherland.
Adelaide:
Unbehaun and. Johnstone, Ltd.
Perth:
M. J. Bateman, Ltd.
Hobart:
Medhurst and Sons Pty., Ltd.
IF YOU MUST BE PAID
TO READ THE NEWS..
what of the advertisements?
“The Brisbane Courier” depends for circulation solely on its
wholesome, cleanly-presented news and its vigorous policy in
public questions. Subscribers buy it to read it. As a result its
circulation is the greatest and most effective in all Queensland.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s leading paper for 84 years.
Representative: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. 'Phone: 85007
She laughed apologetically as she saw
the hurt look in his eyes.
“I’m sorry! That was damnably crude,
wasn’t it? But they say there’s no one so
virtuous as the reformed rake. The Spin-
drift wanders all over the South Seas,” she
went on eagerly. “It will be a wonderful
trip. And think of the hours and hours
that you will have for writing!” She had
guessed that the book was the best way to
win him to her point of view. “Hours and
hours of silence; no one to worry you —I’ll
see to that. Steve Gibbons, I think, will
do anything I ask him to.” She broke off
abruptly. She had suddenly come to a
problem that she must weigh carefully. It
had to do with that previous night. As
she went on again her voice was almost
inaudible. “Gibbons—Gibbons asked me
to marry him. Me! Can you beat that?
And it wasn’t as if he didn’t know.” She
lighted a cigarette with unsteady hands.
“Men,” she said, and waved the cigarette
expressively. But another fit of coughing
took possession of her lungs so that the
sentence was unfinished.
“Damn these cigarettes!” she gasped as
her breath came back to her. “They’ll kill
me yet. You’re not afraid of t.b.?”
The question took Johns back to the
evening in the Hotel Australie and the
memory of Fay’s father.
It was funny, he reflected, how the pros-
perous old business man, hale and hearty,
seemed to live in constant dread of “catch-
ing” something, while he, Johns, a far more
likely victim, was unafraid. The risk did
not affect him; he scarcely bothered to
realise that there might be a risk. T.b.
was a disease of civilisation, and it did not
have the same horror for him that leprosy
held.
But the girl’s query brought it home to
him more than ever that she must get
away from there. She would die if she
didn’t; there was no doubt about that;
and he did not want her to die.
He felt a sudden wave of paternal solici-
tude sweep over him. She was so
pathetic in her light-hearted independence.
And if he had not stumbled against her
door that night she would have gone on
living her worse-than-dead existence for
perhaps another year—until the t.b. claimed
her.
“There are worse things than t.b.,” Johns
told her, laughing away her question. But
she sensed what had made Johns say that,
although perhaps only subconsciously. She
nodded seriously.
“Yes, but not so far as I’m concerned.
I’ve used my commonsense—and God has
been good. That way, anyhow.”
Her frankness made the statement de-
cent. There were not many people, he
told himself, who could have said those
words quite so unoffensively. He nodded
casually, as though the point were of no
importance to him, but he knew a sense
of relief.
“You’ve seen a doctor about your lungs,
surely?”
“Oh, Lord, yes!” Her shrug consigned
her medical advisers to the nether regions.
“They’re all the same. Well meaning, 1
suppose, but so hopelessly futile. They tell
you to get away, to go up into the hills—
the only chance for a cure. Then they
pocket their fee and bow you out. Never
bother a damn about how you’re going to
get there, or who’s going to pay for it!
Or,, if it isn’t the hills, it’s a sea trip. It’s
so easy to give advice, isn’t it?”
“But what about medicine?”
“Medicine?” She laughed at him, but
her eyes were sombre. “It’s gone beyond
medicine. You wouldn’t try to mend a
broken leg with medicine, would you? Well.
I’ve got a 'cavity’ I think they call it. A
cavity that big”—she outlined an inch circle
with finger and thumb—“just here. Right
apex, they call that. And you can’t pour
physic into it, or fill it up with seccotine.”
Johns was horrified. The fact that she
knew the extent of her trouble made it
more real. He could see the lung tissues
sagging in around the “cavity.”
“I had a cough once,” he told her.
“While I was in Sydney. But the sea air
seems to have cured it. It’ll cure yours
too. There’s nothing like the sea air,” he
assured her.
She looked at him curiously and won-
dered if he knew that half the doctors had
told her the same, and had added, “to
kill you people off!” That the other half
had told her that it was sea air, and sea
air only, that would cure her, did not
matter. She knew that it would kill her—
it was killing her even on land. On a boat
it would do the trick twice as quickly. But
she felt that she had to help Johns, and it
would be a better way to die than in a
ward in hospital. And she could be buried
at sea. The green depths might wash her
clean. In any case she had no fancv to
lie for ever in a worm-eaten hole in Zan-
davar.
She stood up, but would not let him
rise, pushing him back with her finger-
tips on his shoulders.
“There’s four hours yet before we need
start,” she told him. “Get some sleep. I’m
gmng down to see old Steve.” She closed
his lips with one finger. “Not a bit of use
your coming. I can fix it better alone.
Don’t answer the door, and you won’t be
disturbed. Nobody knocks more than
once,” she added significantly.
Chapter IV.
Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon., stood
at the stern of the Spindrift, on one side
of him the girl, on the other Stephen Gibbons,
owner and master of the vessel. Each was
silent, busy with thoughts. It was the
hour of the dawn and the tide.
They had come aboard the Spindrift
nearly half an hour before, when the first
faint paling of the eastern stars had empha-
sised the coolness of the quiet air, Then
with the coming of the sun a faint breeze
had sprung up, scarcely sufficient to ruffle
the placid surface of the water, but enough
to give the Spindrift the way she needed to
make the roadstead crossing in safety.
Johns shivered suddenly, and turned to
the girl.
“I’m afraid I must have a little more,”
he said apologetically. “I don’t think I
could sleep without it.”
The sun had not yet warmed the air
appreciably. Its individual rays brought
comfort, but the breeze, faint though it
was, had a tang to it that found out the
weakness that the preceding night’s events
had left in him.
“But I don’t think I’ll trouble you much
after that,” he added. “Wooden Charlie
got me pretty nearly right, you know.”
His voice died away into a sigh. Wooden
Charlie was lying back there in Zandavar
dead; and the dawn was the dawn of that
to-morrow which yesterday had beckoned
so brightly, a finite entity apart from time.
The dawn that was to have been the dawn
of the “new era” of Wooden Charlie’s pro-
mising. And now Wooden Charlie was
“himself with yesterday’s se’en thousand
years.”
But perhaps in death the yellow tinge—
or the white, it little mattered which—
would be expunged, and Charlie would be
at rest and with his ancestors.. They surely
would have none of the petty standards of
blood that could make life on earth a Hell
for such as Wooden Charlie. He was glad
that he had dragged that dead body from
the fire. He looked at his hands—or,
rather, at the bandages which hid the raw
and blistered skin from view. That had
been Flora’s doing; when she had come
back from her interview with Gibbons, and
while he still slept, she had dressed his
hands for him so that when he woke they
were soothed and almost painless.
Flora—a name so apt, and yet so
strangely unsuitable. He wondered vaguely
whether it was her real name or merely
a nom de guerre. Not that it mattered
much either way. It was what she had
done for him, what she was doing for
him, what she was going to do for him—
that was what counted. That was what
wiped out the past so that it had never
been. It was not what she had been that
counted. It was what she was now.
Flora. A tired little flower, drooping in
the steamy heat of the hothouse. And he
was taking her—or was she taking him?—
away from the conservatory, out of the
stifling atmosphere, into the open air. But
would the weary, exhausted petals have the
stamina, the hardihood, to stand the
change? It wa.s a terrible risk, a sheer
hazard, a gamble with Fate—and with her
life as the stake!
He sensed the captain’s eyes on him, and
he forced his own to meet them. For a
space the two men stared inscrutably at
one another. Stephen Gibbons’s eyes were
the pale blue that is the product of years
and years of looking out over broad ex-
panses of ocean. It was as though the
deeper blue of the seas, by some subtle
process, had absorbed the pigment from the
sailor’s irises until only the faint skeleton
framework of color remained.
Johns knew intuitively that the other
was jealous of him. He would have known,
he felt, even though Flora had said no-
thing. It was almost like an aura, that
attitude of the other man towards him.
Intangible, but unmistakable. That it was
so utterly unjustified made it none the less
difficult for Johns. The knowledge that it
was there made it almost impossible for
him to speak as he would have wished to.
He felt that the captain was weighing him
up—rather, had already done so—and with
the bias that his jealousy gave him. Johns
felt that Stephen Gibbons was wondering
what could have possessed Flora to take
him under her wing when she had turned
down an offer of marriage from the one
who had so much more to offer her.
{To be continued next week.)
When a Man is Old.
When a man i,s old and his blood is chilled,
And he flops on his creaking knees
To the only gods who are left unkilled
By the doubts of his long unease;
Then he damns his soul as a wretched thing
That should cringe in its cloak of shame,
And he lauds his soul as a hero-king
Who has bui'ned with a mounting flame.
For he laughs at loves of his avid youth,
And he shrugs at the mated sin;
But for when he felt like a fool, in sooth,
He has naught but a snarling grin.
Yet he bowed at times, in a vigiled faith,
Like a knight at a holy shrine;
And he dared him forth to the fight and
scathe
For a cause that he deemed divine.
And of any pow’rs that may lurk beyond—
Of the pow’rs that may watch and plan—
He will ask account, be they foul or fond,
For the loneliness dealt to man.
So lie waits and dreams, if his dreams be
few,
Of a warrior’s course ahead;
Of a tidal life that shall come anew
When the bully named Death is dead.
N.S.W.
CECIL POOLE.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
ln its whole history the Y.R.C. Grand
National Steeplechase never produced a
greater sensation that it did on Saturday,
when the favorite, Archeson, dropped dead
after passing the post in fifth place. The
vet.’s opinion was that Ai’cheson had suc-
cumbed to a heart attack; but it is hard to
understand why a horse that had landed
the long-distance Great Eastern Steeplechase
on Easter Monday, scored over the Fleming-
ton fences on June 4, and competed in the
Steeplechasers’ Flat, of two miles, three
days before the Grand National should
develop organic disease so suddenly. The
last-minute favoritism of Archeson was as
dramatic as the plunge that had brought
Nauru to the head of the Grand National
Hurdle quotes a week before. For a long
while the South Aus. horse was in equal
request with Mosstrooper, but he firmed
from 6 to 1 to 4 to 1 and went out three
points shorter than Gus Powell’s prad. Six
of the 13 starters failed to finish, three (in-
cluding Sandhurst, the “National” hero of
1929) being pulled up long before the jour-
ney ended. Over the last mile Precocious,
Nauru and Mosstrooper had the race to them-
selves. Precocious, half-brother to last
year’s winner, Rakwool, gave a splendid dis-
play of jumping ability and stamina in the
colors of his owner-trainei’, Miss Dorothy
Sheil, whose father bred both Rakwool and
Precocious. The dam of these horses was
bred in N. S. Wales by William Thompson,
and is by Pcti-illo from a half-sister to
Abercorn.
Morbid curiosity caused hundreds of people
to congregate where Archeson had made the
swift transition from life to death; but
with admirable speed the racecourse atten-
dants erected a portable hessian screen
around the corpse, and spectators turned
their attention to cheering the returning
winner. Miss Sheil was overwhelmed with
congratulations, whereas Miss Josephine
Heysen, of Adelaide, who was associated
with the training of Archeson and had
SERTYIhiS HIKING. ISA SPLENDID IDEA?,
<qERT : Yes, BUT WHAT oo vou know
- ABOUT IT 1 *
Bert : "oh, Ive done quite a 10/.
ff ♦
QERT Do VOU WALK IN VOUR SWEEP?
schooled him over fences, experienced the
bitterness of an almost personal bereave-
ment. Before Precocious graduated from the
hunters’ ranks Miss Sheil captured several
point-to-point steeplechases on the son of
October. Some weeks ago she rode him over
a round of the Flemington fences, but the
official edict has gone forth that a repeti-
tion of that feat is never to be permitted.
' * ' ’ ’
Twelve months ago R. N. Harris reckoned
that he could have won the G. N. Steeple-
chase on Mosstrooper if the chestnut had
not fallen at the third-last . fence. Harris
did not move on the Kenilworth gelding
until half the journey was completed. Ted
Webster adopted different tactics on Satur-
day; he commenced to drive his mount along
after turning out of the straight. Moss-
trooper answered gallantly, and kept within
striking distance of Precocious and Nauru
throughout. If he had not stifled the fence
known as “Jumbo” there might have been
a different National story to write; Moss-
trooper there lost several lengths and a lot
of energy. Bob Inkson reckoned that Nauru
could run up to Precocious at any time;
but his mount knocked up at the distance
and Precocious drew clear away, winning by
seven lengths. Nauru hung out to such an
extent that Mosstrooper nearly deprived him
of second place.
Grand National Hurdle form worked out
truly in the Doutta Galla Hurdle. Once
more Glaronga made the pace very hot. With
three-quarters of a mile less to cover, he
lasted long enough to stall off Redditch and
Dunkeld, who had been third and second
respectively in the National. The Trial
Hurdle went to Phocis, a stable-companion
of Myarin. More will be heard of Raewing,
who finished a close third. He is a brother
in blood to West Wing, who ran second to
Areheson over fences at the V.R.C. June
meeting. Because of his newness at the
game, Raewing was quoted at 25 to 1; he is
in the stable that turned out Oaibye. an
Australian Steeplechase winner. Highland
failed Jack Holt in the Lawn Handicap, but
the Mordialloc wizard appropriated the July
Handicap with High Brae, who is back to
Jiis two-year-old form. However, High Brae
may have been lucky, for Rondalin a (sec-
ond) lost lengths at the start.
* ", ‘ ‘ '
For Caulfield on Saturdayo
Leamington Hurdle: Dunkeld or Ceilidh,
Godfrey Watson Steeplechase: Bang Bang
or Dark Fox.
* * * *
Rarely do 14.3 ponies, however good their
record in their own class, succeed in open
company on Sydney courses. The latest of
many attempts was made in a division of
the Flying Handicap at Canterbury Park with
Valoria, a little thing by Valkyrian—Con-
queror mare. He had won at Gosford on the
Wednesday, but beaten nothing of any con-
sequence. At Canterbury he had to meet
horses like Brazenface and Havaspot, and
Brazenface, who likes this particular track,
gave him 2st. and a comfortable beating.
The pony nevertheless accounted for the
others, and is fast for his inches. Having
run a couple of bad races at Moorefield,
where he apparently objects to going
“upstairs”—the Moorefield hill baffles many
an animal —Brazenface, who was ridden by
Darby Munx-o, was allowed to go out at
5 to 1.
Freshened up by a spell after an exacting
autumn compaign, Gold Digger (8 to 1),
also ridden by the younger Munro, captured
the other division of the Flying Handicap
from Treepac and Tontine—the last a coun-
try horse, by Burri —Vesuvian, who finished
very fast. Gold Digger’s previous start was
in the A.J.C. Final Handicap on April 2.
He must have finished fifty yards behind
Agincourt, now fancied for the Metrop., but
he is no middle-distance horse. H*e is
trained by his owner, Luscombe, a Sydney
publican.
That honest bit of horseflesh Wallace
Mimi (5 to 1) ran another sterling race in
the Canterbury Handicap, but he has gone
up in the weights and is not built to carry
substantial burdens. The task of conceding
211 b. to Greenoak (7 to 1) was too much
for him, but he cut Eurythmic’s disappoint-
ing half-brother Salvador (7 to 1) out of
second place. Greenoak is a six-year-old mare
from the Newcastle district, by Greenstead—
Wen joy. It was supposed that Greenstead
was a mei*e sire of sprinters, but Greenoak
came homo strongly at the end of 11 fur-
longs after doing all the leading. King
March was one of the seratchings.
The Campsie Handicap furnished the most
exciting finish of a day which was greatly
in favor of McShortodds. Servius (4 to 1)
came out. a trifle when he seemed to have
the l-ace in hand —he had made most of the
running—and a little-known youth named
McDonald, riding his mount, Carat (25 to,
1), hard for the opening, snatched victory in
tlie last stride. Firbolg was a close third.
i'fi ❖ # %
For Rosehill on Saturday
Flying Handicap: Eulclare; next, Brazen-
face.
Rosehill Handicap: King March; next,
Khartoum.
Maiden Handicap: Ramrod; next, Lana-
cian.
Garlingford Handicap: New King; next,
Weotara.
* * * *
“Eagle Farm”: The new Government in
Queensland is talking about taking the con-
duct of racing up there out of the hands of
the Q.T.G. and putting it under a board of
control. It is an ill-advised idea. Boards
of the kind generally lead to jobbery, especi-
ally in regard to appointments, which in this
case would increase the already too prevalent
evil of political patronage. One worth-
while suggestion, however, is the amendment
of the Totalisator Act to permit the instal-
lation of a straight-out machine. Many
years ago the Queensland clubs ran nothing
else, place-betting being confined to the ring.
-
n/r / _ j R„l^„
IVIA <- land Kattertyj Kules
“N.S.C.”: Stribling’s tactics again-.t
Palmer, whom he stopped in ten rounds at
Sydney Stadium, were made to look worse,
by comparison with the bearing of blew
Edwards and Jimmy Kelso in the pre-
ceding 12-rounder. These boys gave a
masterly exhibition of game, scientific box-
ing, and there wasn’t the shadow of an
illegality or a suspicion of ill-temper tlirough-
out the proceedings. Stribling was guilty of
practically every ring offence known to Aus-
tralia bar low hitting; he carried his left
near his knee, but he always hit high with
it. For the rest, he) landed kidney punches
by the dozen and numerous rabbit-killers;
he held and hit in almost every clinch,
slowed up Palmer’s speed by swinging him
on to the ropes and leaning on him talked
to referee Wallis as well as Palmer—
a stunt which annoyed the crowd more
than all his fouls put together—backed
away after an exceptionally dirty bit
of work and dropped his arms by way
of challenging his victim to make a
fight of it. Yet here’s an odd plieno-
menon. The crowd left liking him on the
whole. There seemed to be a general under-
standing that his style of fighting was the
only sort a pus could make sure of winning
with in his native laud, and a feeling of
gratitude that he hadn’t made a certainty of
victory by kicking Ambrose in the stomach
r .something. Stribling said naively, in an
interview afterwards, that he had always
been accustomed to “fight pretty rough—
something like what you Australians call
‘bung rules,’ ” and promised that Sydneyites
would view the system in all its beauty
when he met Frankie Wine at the end of
the month. One of Stribling’s numerous
tricks in the Palmer fight was to come out
of his corner wet; but perhaps if Mr. Wine
does the same Wallis won’t bother to order
either back to be dried.
* * * *
A bigger crowd than was at their first
match saw the return tangle between Dean
Detton (13st. 81b.) and Harry Mamos (13st.
131 b.) at Sydney Stadium. Mamos dc-
lighted by breaking all the rules. After
punching his opponent from pillar to post,
he kicked him on the chin in the fifth round,
Out went the Yank, and “That’s enough!”
said police-inspector Mortimer. Instead of
disqualifying Mamos, the referee declared it
a draw; no fall had been scored. At Leich-
hardt King Elliott also wrestled a draw
with Lundyn—one fall each.
Footbrawl
Steady, drizzling rain reduced attendances
at Vic. League games on Saturday; still
25,000 pushed into Victoria Park to watch
Collingwood battle with Richmond. Show-
ing more resource and cleverer position, play,
the Magpies held their opponents, though
Richmond’s high marking and dash gained
a temporary lead in the last quarter; but
it was mainly ’Wood’s deadly forward kick-
ing—6 straight goals in the last quarter—
that gave them victory—l 4 goals, 6 behinds
(90), to Richmond’s 11 goals 12 behinds
(78). At St. Hilda South Melbourne dis-
covered that either it isn’t as strong as it
thought or that the Saints are better than
the figures show. Right throughout it was
anybody’s game, and only South’s determined
defence stalled off St. Hilda’s last fierce
drives, to win by a point—South, 70; St.
Kilda, 69. At Footscray Geelong struggled
desperately through a strenuous last quarter,
only to lose by a point. With a 27-point
lead on starting the last term the Hubbites
felt serene, but they hadn’t counted on Foot-
scray’s finish—Footscray, 57; Geelong, 56.
Carlton handed the over-rated Essendon a
handsome licking—-142 points to 77; and
Melbourne outed Fitzroy by 102 to 90. Also
North Melbourne downed Hawthorn by 106
to 59.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rugby League seems to have
struck the bad trot which comes to every
games organisation. In spite of changes and
experiments the selectors have been unable
to get a decent team together. That selected
for last Saturday against England at Sydney
Cricket Ground was probably the worst for
years, if the form shown is any criterion,
England, playing with 12 men most of the
time, made hacks of the feeble opposition,
winning pulling-up by 22-5, after leading 10-5
half-way through. A wet and muddy ground
was certainly against the home side, but
save for one excellent bit of passing, which
gave the veteran Wearing a try, the general
impression was that most of the Sydney
League clubs could have done better. Neither
backs nor forwards on the home side seemed
to fit into the scheme of things save fullback
McMillan and eentre-threequarter C. Pearce.
By far the best showing of the Blues was in
the first half, but the efforts faded away to
nothing in tjie second spell. This is the
first time since these contests began that
N.S.W. has failed to win a match against an
English team. The Englishmen played fine
football on the slippery going, that great
centre Brogden especially shining. The
English forwards also showed to advan-
tage, their footwork with the wet ball on
the ground being a notable feature of their
play. Sullivan was in good kicking form
for England, converting all of the four tries
and adding a penalty goal. Wearing con-
verted his try for N.S.W.
* * *
The Australian Rugby League selectors
have picked 17 men for the final Test against
England ' at Sydney Cricket Ground. New-
comers are Why, Root and Stehr, of N.S.W.,
Stehr having been out of the game since
early in the season. In all there are nine
N.S.W. players in the selection and eight
Queenslanders.
*!• •!* "•* •t’
“Gate”: Those controlling the visit of the
North of England Rugby League team to
Australia are suffering agonies of mind and
are unable to sleep at nights for thinking
of the third Test match. After the
famous box-on in the Queensland Test, which
made each side level, it is expected that
something perfectly lovely is likelv to happen
at the Sydney show this week-end. The
attendance at the first Test tided even the
capacity of the Sydney Cricket Ground, and
thousands were locked out. The trustees have
refused to increase the accommodation. My
suggestion is that the prices of admission
be raised to Stadium rates. If I know any-
thing about League football, investors will
get their money’s worth, both ways.
* :E *
Both Australian Rugby codes took a
knockback from the overseas guests they
entertained on Saturday. At Brisbane the
All Blacks handsomely walloped a strong
Queensland Union team, which contained
six players in the opening Test game in
Sydney, by 28-8, or 5 tries, three converted,
a penalty and a field goal to a converted try
and a penalty goal* In spite of the efforts
of Lawton and ' Steggall, the home side
entirely failed to shake down into a com-
bination, while the visitors showed unrnis-
takeably they have at last reached the real
All Black form. At half-time the Maori-
landers led 14-0, but a strong rally by the
Maroons raised local hopes, the scores going
to 14-8. After that, the tourists, playing
excellent football, forward and back, ran
away with the game, the Queensland defence
being quite inadequate against the powerful-
sustained All Black thrusts. Of the home side
only Steggall, Bonis and Lawton merit men-
tion, the last-named being ill-served by Broad
foot from the scrum. The forwards were mas-
tered for the most part. Steere, Cottrell and
Solomon were the best of the visiting pack,
Solomon especially proving that his M.L.
reputation was no false one. Ball and
Bullock-Douglas were in rare form on the All
Black wings, with Pollock a successful
centre. '
Rugby Union club matches in Sydney on
Saturday resulted in Manly and Northern
Suburbs being bracketed at the head of the
table. Manly downed Eastern Suburbs 15-
5, while Northern surprised by beating
Randwick 15-9. Other results were Uni.
22, Western Suburbs 16, and Drummoyne’s
34 to a solitary try by St. Gfeorge.
* * *
The Australian Rugby Union team for the
second Test in Brisbane is the same as that
played in the first, save that Steggall goes
from fullback to the right wing in White’s
place, while Alec Ross resumes his old
possie at fullback. On the showing of the
All Blacks in the recent matches against
N.S.W. and Queensland, Australia will be
hard put to it to score another win.
* ❖ * *
“Surat”: Toni Lawton, the lean, lathy
Western Queenslander who led Australia to
victory against the AH Blacks in the first
Test on Sydney Cricket Ground, has had
a unique experience as an Australian cap-
tain in Rugby football, though he led many
a team in England and Europe during his
Rhodes-scholar days at Oxford. The Sydney
match was his fifth successive triumph as
chief of an Australian team. Before that
he captained Australia against the visiting
All Blacks in 1929, when Australia stag-
gered the Rugby Union world by winning
all three Test matches. He was skipper
again in the win over the British side of
1930.
“Port Adelaide” : Reference to the growing
strength of the Rugby Union game in Mel-
bourne (B. 29/6/’32) reminds me that Adel-
aide is also taking quite an interest in the
unfamiliar code,. though it was only started
there three months or so ago. The South
Aus. attitude is more tolerant than that of the
Victorians. Indeed, one well-known expert,
writing on amendments of the rules in an
Adelaide journal, makes a suggestion that
would once have caused au unroar in Aus-
tralian Rules circles. Discussing the hand-
ball rule he advocates the adoption of the
“two-handed throw.” Commenting on this,
the journal adds that, “in this seemingly
drastic change, he [the writer of the article]
will receive solid support from those who
have seen Rugby matches !”
* * $ *
“Tenakoe” : In spite of the consent of M.L.
and Australia to abide by the rules of the
International Rugby Board —in all matches
between Australian sides and the All Blacks
these rules, including the disallowing of re-
placements, arc being observed —the inter-
national body, so-called, for it consists only
of delegates from the four U.K. unions, has
notified its opinion that M.L. was not whole-
heartedly adhering to them. The atti-
tude of the overseas board is irritating in
the extreme. In Maoriland especially feel-
ing is running high, and there is a strong
move for a conference with the Australian
unions to thrash the matter out. It would
not be so bad if the Dominion unions had
representatives with powers to vote on the
board.
(Continued on next page.)
“The Gaffer”: The British entry for the
Olympiad at Los Angeles looks formidable
on paper. The middle-distance runners,
Rampling and Hampson, have been putting
up some extraordinary times —Rampling is
reckoned the finest quarter-miler England
has seen for many years. Ferris, seven
times winner of the British Marathon, is
also a starter, while the Cambridge Univer-
sity eight-oar crew, as the Leander Club’s
entry, should go near scoring a win for
Britain. France, with its great distance-
ranner, Ladoumergue, out for professional
practices, does not look dangerous save for
the swimmer Taris. Finland, which has
scored so heavily in the past with Paavo
Nurmi’s long-distance running, will pro-
bably have to do without him. Like Ladou-
mergue, he was put on the peg for profes-
sional practices, but Finland is shipping him
over in the hope that the whitewash brush
will be applied by the International Athletic
Federation. In view of the recent ruling,
once a “pro” always a “pro,” it looks as if
Nurmi’s chance of getting back is one with
Buckley’s.


HARDY'S
Sparkling
E
N
W
'ilh Ik sir Special
Cold Label Still diries
ires a Hof
« 7-2-
years cf wine grounrig
arid rrjakina
( eV
u
m
SPA
flGc.
Pi
I
*
jARPIMr
Footbrawl
“Fitzeray”: One curious result of the
depression is that Melbourne football is tins
year drawing bigger gates than it did in
1931. Something of the same sort is reported
from other States, and the explanation seems
to be that lots of people who once thronged
race meetings and other expensive sports
have, nowadays, gone for their thrills to the
cheaper football games. In any case, up to
the eighth Saturday of this season, the. 1-
senior Melbourne clubs drew £18,596 against
£17,794 for 1931. Club aggregates cannot be
estimated yet, but it is worth noting that Dee-
long—which is run as a combined football
and cricket show and owns its own ground
—cleaned up £4322 for its whack ot the first
round of 18 matches last year.
... -f. * *
“Hotham”: There is a growing sense of
uneasiness in Victorian Australian KuJes
circles over the growth of rival codes, lhe
introduction of Rugby to some ol: the_ Vic-
torian Great Public Schools has raised the
bristles of the League, and now the Associa-
tion is voicing its fears. At. a meeting last
week the Association heads discussed a letter
from the League asking for participation in
the readjusting of some of the rules. There
Was opposition to this from some of those
desiring to maintain the long feud between
the two bodies, but one prominent official
was in favor. The Australian game was
“slipping back,” he said, and other codes
were “creeping in.” Soccer, for instance,
was being subsidised from England. Finally
it was decided to join hands with the League
in the matter, though the two are about as
compatible as oil and water as a rule.
* * * *
Both the Rugby codes brought off big
matches last mid-week. In Sydney, the
Rugby Union N.S.W. side got the father of
a hiding on the wet and muddy Sydney
Cricket Ground from the All Blacks, who
triumphed by 27-3. N.S.W. was a hotch-potch
side, but that does not detract from the
merits of the visitors’ win. The brightest
item of the day was the discovery in an
early match that N.S.W. has at last got a
five-eighth of class. This is Ron Billman, of
Bathurst, who, playing for a N.S.W. team
against the Navy, showed that he measures
well up to the reputation the Bathurstians
give him. He is to have further chances.
At Toowoomba the English Rugby League
team had its usual experience in this
town of striking a snag, and after a fierce
tussle could only make a draw of 7-7. The
Red Mud City has always been a tough nut
for touring teams to crack.
“Drayton”: That complaint (B. 6/7/’32)
about the tendency of English professional
footballers to squeal about the umpiring
whenever they are bested —they never do so
when they win—was justified at Toowoomba.
Skipper Sullivan remarked after the game,
in which 32 penalties were awarded
against his men, that England would have
won had it got “a fair deal.” The inevit-
able Hutchins, who has found fault with
practically every referee he has. encountered
in Australia, also contributed his yelp. His
plea that his side did not come from Eng-
land to incur penalties which would never
have been visited upon it in England falls
flat. In the North of England, to which this
professional game is confined, they put up
with deliberate rule infringements that even
our N.S.W. and Queensland followers of the
game are not willing to stomach. If the
English visitors wish to escape penalties for
breaking the rules why not avoid breaking
them ? ,
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: After many disap-
pointments it really looks as if Aus-
tralia will get a visit from an American
tennis side at last. It has been notified
that Allison, Vines, Van Ryn and Gledhill
will leave Yankeeland for Australia at the
end of October. The first three are to bring
their wives, and this makes good reading,
for it adds to the probability of the men mak-
ing the tour. Should they be inclined to
back out of it at the last minute, as has
happened before with American teams, the
womenfolk may be trusted to see that the
chance of a tour among the interesting
savages of Australia is not wasted. Opti-
mists are suggesting that Helen Wills and
another American woman player may join
the party, but that is too much to hope for.
“Top Spin” : The Australian tennis-players
abroad kicked off on their European four in
Paris last week, and after going through
Czecho-Slovakia and Austria will return to
England for a three-day match against
Britain at Scarborough, which begins on
July 28. That done, they go to Germany
for the championships on August 7. How
and when they will head for home has not
yet been decided. The tourists got one set-
back. They had arranged to take part in
the Irish championships and play a match
with Ireland as well. The Fitzwilliam, Club,
which is running the championships, peremp-
torily cancelled the arrangement on the
ground that an international match w r ould
upset the tournament. There has been a
lot of criticism of the Irish attitude.
“Centre Court”: The victory of Helen
Wills at Wimbledon was her fifth suc-
cessive triumph in the singles, a feat
which even the mighty Suzanne Leng-
len cannot rival. It would be interest-
ing to see the Wills-Moody pitted
against some of the men who are alleged to
be champions or near-champions. My private
opinion is that the lady would towel the
heads off most of them, as Joyce Wethered
is said to be able to do with most of
Britain’s he-golfers. A game between Helen
and the temperamental Jack Crawford would
be worth going to see.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Caw Cuss”: The crow menace to coun-
try golf (B. 29/6/’32) is not exaggerated.
The all-blacks nearly caused a riot at
Armidale (N.S.W.) the other day when the
local associates tackled a team from Guyra.
During the play crows got away with' 16
balls belonging to Armidale players, carefully
picking out the new ones. The Guyra.
women, who didn’t lose l a single pill, won all
of the 15 matches played. There was con-
siderable feeling at the finish, some going
so far as to say that the crows had flown
over from Guyra to lend surreptitious aid to
the ladies from the same locality. Cer-
tainly a number of those present left after
the match in a northerly direction. Guyra
is north of Armidale.
* » *
“Hoylake”: One is familiar, with the
mariner who demands in his will that his
body or his ashes be consigned to the sea
which has brought him bread, but one Angus
Sommerville, of Cheshire, has broken new
ground. He was a marine engineer and pro-
minent in the New Zealand and Federal
shipping companies, both well known in Aus-
tralia. His desire, as expressed in his will,
was that his body should be cremated and
FRAGILE.
MANAGER (disgusted) : “Chuck in the towel, Bert. But for ’Eaven’s sake be careful
and don't ’it ’im with it.”
the ashes scattered from the tenth tee of
the Walmer and Kingsdown golf course.
Why the tenth tee in particular is not
stated, but it may have had some senti-
mental interest. Perhaps it was from there
that he hit the drive of his golfing career;
or perhaps, again, it was there he was re-
fused by some associate —he •is described as
a bachelor—and lived to rejoice in the fact.
* * *
“Brassey”: An over-filled golf bag is
usually the hallmark of the dud player.
One Randolph Glen, of Royal Wimbledon,
has gone to the other extreme, having
gained fame and publicity by using only one
club, and that an iron, for all emergencies.
He is no mug, either, for he recently won
a tournament at North Foreland, and with
a 15 handicap defeated several well-
known players in the Bar Golfing Society’s
annual tournament at Littlestone, going to
the semi-finals, where he took his opponent
to the nineteenth hole before the latter
clinched the victory.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The McHaggis”: A Sydney magistrate
gave a decision the other day which is of
considerable importance to every golf club.
The Taxation Commissioner sued Concord
Golf Club for failing to furnish a return of
wages paid to employees as required by the
Family Endowment Act. Concord pleaded
that it was a company limited by guarantee
and did not carry on a business. Its em-
employees were therefore “domestic ser-
vants” and it was not' liable to endow-
ment tax. The beak concurred with the
contention, and the club departed rejoicing.
It is very interesting, but there are intriguing
possibilities in the finding. I am looking
forward to my next visit to Concord in the
confident hope of seeing my old friend pro-
fessional Tommy Howard got up in a white
apron and a frilled cap in the approved
manner of “domestic servants.”
Car and Cycle
“Whizz” : The proposal to hold an Austra-
lian motor rally (B. 6/7/’32) is growing like
the proverbial snowball. The Lord Mayor of
Melbourne has approved of the idea and pro-
mised the help of the Council, while the
Melbourne Automobile Club, the Chamber of
Automotive Industries, Dunlop-Perdriau
and others with a big say in the automobile
world are all prepared to pull their weight.
The first thing to he considered is finance,
for the laying down of routes with their
service stations and fixed observation points
will be an expensive business. Still, pro-
mises of support are so good, and are com-
ing from so many quarters, that there seems
little to fear on this head. Once the cash
situation has been ironed out, an executive
committee wall be appointed and full details
of the rally issued, since there is not much
time to waste.
« * # *
“Disc Clutch”: A queer motoring gadget
of the past has just been presented to the
French national car museum in the Palais
de Compiegne. This is Camille Jenatzky’s
“Ne Jamais Contente,” which put up the
world’s land speed record in 1899 with a
devastating run at the rate of 65.79 m.p.h.
A picture of the car shows a body closely
resembling that of the familiar petrol-tank
lorries which ply Australian streets, and, as
in their case, the cigar-shaped chassis is far
above the axles instead of being set as near
ground level as possible as in the modern
speed car. Furthermore, the car was elec-
trically-driven, the “juice” being derived from
batteries. Steering was done by a tiller in
place of the wheel which is universal- to-day,
and there was a chain-drive.
“Kick Starter” : A notable motor-cycle ride
was completed in Brisbane recently wlieii
C. Masterman, of Tasmania, cast up there
after a spin of some 4000 miles from his
starting point, Devonport, in Tassy. The
ride was taken in leisurely fashion, the
wandering trip through Victoria and N.S.W.
to Brisbane occupying the best part of three
months. During the long.journey neither
tyres nor engine gave the slightest trouble, a
fact which says volumes for the trouble-
proof capacity of the modern power cycle.
Miscellaneous
“Aigburtli”: As was generally expected,
D. R. Jardine will captain the English
cricket team which is soon to be with us.
Two managers have also been selected. One
of them, “Plum” Warner, who will do the
social side of the business, is well known
to us here. The other, who will see to the
finances, is R. C. N. Palairet, one of the
brothersi who played for Somerset years
ago. Palairet, who was secretary of
Surrey county for some years, has the
reputation of being a bit of a nark, and
many are the stories of his lofty attitude
towards the remainder of the world s in-
habitants. If he maintains this in Aus-
tralia he may possibly have reason to regret
it, though his billet as checker of the takings
is not likely to bring him much into contact
with the common herd.
* =!= * *
“Tenakoe”: Maori land hockey authorities
have approved of the itinerary for the Aus-
tralian tour, which will be more extensive
than was at first thought possible. Sixteen
matches will be played in all, beginning with
a game against North Coast at Lismore on
July 20. Four matches in Queensland follow,
including games at Toowoomba and War-
wick on the Darling Downs, and after a
meeting with Tenterfield on the way down,
the tourists will tackle Sydney on August 1.
After some country games in N.S.W.. South
and West Australia will be met during the
carnival in Sydney. There will be a rush
trip to Melbourne to play Victoria on August
20. and the tour ends with a game with the
Ma State in Sydney four days later.
* * - =!:
“Shrewsbury”: Australia will have two
Olympic representatives outside her own
team. These are the Victorians Luxton and
Sambell, who will be in the Cambridge boat
which, under the Leander banner, will figure
for England at. Los Angeles. This crew, as
Leander. won the Grand Challenge Cup at
Ilenley last week. Some of the members will
also turn out for the fours; and for the
pairs, Edwards and Clive, two Oxford men,
will be the British reps.
* * * *
“Shell”: Bobby Pearce says he is done
with competition sculling after the Los
Angeles Olympiad. The great Australian ama-
teur, like most of the men who have attained
distinction in sculling—exceptions were the
Towns brothers and Peter Kemp—is an
extra heavyweight. After a few years of
rowing the flesh begins to pile on, and to
get it off is weariness. Bobby told some
interviewers the other day that the training
he had to do had got him fed up ; besides busi-
ness was calling insistently, and he thought
the time had come to step out. Short of a
miracle, Pearce should win the Olympic
sculls. That done he may retire with a good
grace as one of the finest amateurs who ever
sat in a racing shell.
* * * *
“Blade”: The extraordinary tendency of
N.S.W. rowing to confine itself to the
bloated city of Sydney was emphasised the
other day when the Nepean Rowing Club
.showed so well in the Sydney “Cock of the
Harbor” regatta to which the country club,
the only one of its kind in N.S.W., was
specially invited. Every State in Aus-
tralia save NiS.W. boasts rowing clubs of
importance in extra-metropolitan centres.
Many of these, like Wide Bay in Queens-
land, and Murray Bridge and Mannum in
South Australia, have bulked big in inter-
state rowing events. The Nepean club has
perhaps the ideal river of the world on which
to pick up the game. Membership is small
however, and the distance from Sydney is
another handicap, since only against Sydney
clubs can rowing practice be got.


DRIVE OUT
RHEUMATISM
MD BACKACHE
London Doctor’s Prescription.
Don't suffer crippling Rheumatic pains or backache
when you can get instant relief from Dr. Harrison’s
Pills 1 This remedy immediately gets to the root of
the trouble by ridding the system of the cause—
uric acid. This uric poison is slowly, day by day,
breaking down your health, causing ageing' back,
limb, joint and muscular pains, and probably weaken-
ing the heart. Harrison’s Pills quickly and effec-
tively free you from the danger by dissolving and
driving from the system the uric acid crystals now
making comfortable life impossible for you. Why
wait until you become crippled, mentally and
physically? Your very brain refuses to do its best
while you are tortured by the uric acid fiend. Get
genuine relief once and for all Take Harrison’s
Pills to-day and regain your old sparkle, activity
and youth. Harrison’s Pills end the pain and the
cause! Any good chemist or store can supply
Harrison’s Pills in three sizes: 18 Pills, 2/-; 32
Pills, 3/-; 68 Pills, 5/-; thus providing the least
costly form of proven relief from uric acid, rheu-
matic, kidney and bladder pains and disorders to
be had in this country.
OLD GOLD AND BROKEN JEWELLERY PURCHASED
At highest ruling rates.
Special Services available for country clients.
BUYERS AND SELLERS OF
New Zealand Notes, English Notes, English Silver, and all Foreign Currency
ROYAL GOLD & CURRENCY EXCHANGE CO
4O MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY. ’Phono 85417.
Wanted.
YW'ANTED, by young man, position on
vv station, Central or Western Queensland
or New South Wales. Gan ride and handle
teams and stock. Good working knowledge
of carpentery, building, blacksmithing and
fitting. Can run and service internal-com-
bustion engines, windmills and power-pumps.
Can keep books and understands the prin-
ciples of survey, levelling, land measurement
and irrigation.—239 Bulletin Office,
Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Missing Friends.
D OCHE, Patrick, of Mitch ellstown, County
Cork, Ireland, who came to Australia
about 1880—his children or grandchildren
will hear something to their advantage by
communicating with National Trustees Com-
pany, 133 Queen Street, Melbourne.
THE STABLE MONEY MYTH
“THE BARRIER MINER” is one of those
newspapers which is searching for some
remedy for this loss of spending- power through-
out the world. This newspaper sees no daylight
through fads or fancies, whether of notable
economists or soap-boxers. The only remedy
is the good old cure known as WORK, says
“The Barrier Miner.”
“The Barrier Miner” is published twice every
day at famous Broken Hill. Famous all over
the world.
df
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Amusements,
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Williamson Imperial Grand Opera Co.
KING’S THEATRE:
DAME SYBIL THORNDIKE in a Costume Comedy
Romance,
MADAME PLAYS NAP.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: BITTER SWEET.
CRITERION: HAPPY AND GLORIOUS.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
The girl who likes her spots is being
catered for by fashion designers this spring;
so is she who prefers stripes. This Letter
called at its pet dress shop last week and
found it hung about with garments intoxi-
cated with spots and bars. Perfectly flat-
tailored are our sports wear, our suits and
our evening frocks. Made on these lines
were a cement-white and a Nile-green wool
lace sports suit. The former carried a royal
blue cii’cular cape of the highwayman order,
with neck and sleeves banded in red and
royal blue and a twisted belt in the same
cheerful shades. Sleeveless was the Nile
green, but tiny sleeves were a feature of
the detachable cape, which could be fastened
on to the dress with large silver buttons.
Nearly every evening frock has a bolero,
a cape, a coat or a coat-cape. Of these the
bolero and cape-coat are the favorites; the
former may end above or at the waist. But
the shorter it is the larger it wears its
sleeves, which may be long or short. The
only coatish thing about the cape-coat is the
tiny sleeve.
Angel skin, satin and velvet are the de luxe
fabrics for evening frocks. These mostly
have the corselette tops (so tx’ying to all
but the slim of waist) ; all are moulded to
the figure, fitting snugly to the hip, when the
flares that have started at the normal waist
or even above lose restraint and become
almost abandoned. Backless gowns still per-
sist, though there’s a tendency to draw a veil
over the lower vertebrae. A white angel-
skin fi’ock (one presumes that even angels
are sophisticated these times) hid its back-
lessness by a circular silver eyeletted cape,
fitting demurely on the shoulders. Another
model in Deauville-blue in the same suede-
like fabric had a rather high back, shirred
crosswise and ending in a little bow. This
was one of those feminine frocks. There was
the milliner’s idea of sex appeal in the bow
finishing off the deep V front, and in the
little georgette cape hanging down inside the
bodice. Eve would have gone on a diet of
fruit for ever to own a shimmering magnolia
satin with a high-waisted Princess bodice.
This had a clover design in jade beads all
ever its short bolero coat, which finished
off above the elbow in cuffed sleeves. A
dull black satin gained distinction from a
plait of soft black and white velvet, which
came from one shoulder round the neck,
crossing over at the back and ending at the
left side in two shoe-tie ends held in place by
a rhinestone clasp. Labelled for restaurant
or late Sunday supper wear was one of the
cretonne design chiffons. The pattern was
worked in yellow oranges on a black ground.
Cape sleeves finished off the crossover blouse,
but the notable part of the outfit was the
coat in the same design, but in heavyweight
crepe de Chine, fitting tightly to the waist,
its shortness and slimness made up for by
the long, wide kimono sleeves. With this
dress, they’ll sell you. if you aren’t bank-
rupt, a large black Baku hat, a twist of
yellow silk pique"its only trimming, the ends
lying flat under the turned-up corners of the
brim, which is slit at the back.
A friend of this Letter’s hears from Lon-
don that the West End is ' teeming with
Australians in spite of the depression-caw,-
exchange. Mrs. Jimmy Burns is at the Hyde
Park in a suite with a gorgeous view over
the trees that line Rotten-row. Near by
in a Basil-street flat are Mrs. Alex. Hay and
her sister Alice Burdekin. The youngest
Hay son is at Radley, the famous “rowing
school” near Oxford, and lives at the flat in
hig holidays. Mrs. Dick Horsfall, who was
Ada Fosbery; Elsie Anderson, who lives
with her mother in a flat further south;
the Claude Parburys, who have sold their
house in Hans-crescent since hard times
came, and moved into a relative’s flat; and
the Jim Dixsons (he is Doris Parbury’s
cousin and she was Prudence Vanbrugh) are
also much in evidence at functions which
attract all our expatriates, temporary and
otherwise. Wimbledon, for example. The
Jerseys, who are keen tennis fans, almost
live at .Wimbledon, and seem to know all the
Sydneyites who frequent the place.
Beatrice Kelly’s engagement-ring, which
she flashed for the first time last week, won’t
be long without a companion. She
has planned her wedding for the 20th of
this month. A week or two later mother,
Mrs. Bertie, with Carlton (the Kelly baby,
who is due for Oxford), leaves for London.
The wedding will be an afternoon affair
at St. Mark’s, Darling Point. There will
be no bridesmaids and no fuss afterwards.
Cocktails for hundreds the day before will
be shaken at the Kellys’ temporary home at
Bellevue Hill, and about 60 of Beatrice’s
special friends will be the family’s guests
at the A.I.F. Peace Ball in the Blaxland
Galleries the same night.
Gaiety and femininity surged in great
waves over the Blaxland Galleries when
“Shore” Old Boys gathered for their yearly
dance. Eleven hundred girls and boys shook
the floors of ballroom and gallery while two
bands (the one dashing in refreshed as the
other subsided) supplied the music. But look-
ing at the bustles ; the bows, the ruchings, the
trimly-outlined little figures, you wondered
what had become of the straight up-anl-
doAvn post-war girl. There wasn’t one
specimen of her, even among the matrons.
Perhaps the success of the night was due
as much to the fact that “Shore” hasn’t staged
a hop for three years as to there being a
girls’ committee to help with the details;
but the girls wouldn’t believe that, and
neither would their best boys. So many
pairs, united or about to be, jostled through
the crowd that the room was dazzling with
diamonds as a glacier in the sun. The Adrian
Curlewis couple administered hospitality at
the official table, her black laces served with
white roses being one of the graceful frocks
of the night. Starry-eyed Grace ITart came
with her Ilawdon Wilson. She wore lobelia-
blue chiffons and looked as though the faery
of her favorite Barrie heroines had passed
to her. Naomi Moses, her sister Nance,
Joan Marks and Joyce Cohen were exponents
of black at its smartest; Phyl Ward’s and
Betty Loewenthal’s georgettes stole into the
consciousness as insistently as a brown
pansy; Phyllis Crossley added coral pink
and pearl white to the pattern. The school
colors shone sturdily and with conscious
merit on the table of the official group, made
up of representatives of many public schools,
and on the table where Headmaster L. Rob-
son and his wife entertained.
Mrs. Marjery Browne has up and done it
again! About two years ago Mrs. Browne,
then in her seventies, plucked the prize of
£5OO offered by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment for a scenario; a few weeks ago she
wrote the winning libretto in the Oppor-
tunc Club’s competition for an Australian
operetta. Arnold Mote wrote the music, so
between them the two collect £lOO. All the
composers and librettists (the second prize
is halved by Mrs. Cyril Monk and T. S.
Gurr, while Harold Broadbent, of South
Australia, gets third place) will be intro-
duced by Nathalie Rosenwax to an audi-
ence at the Arts Club on Thursday night,
both in the flesh and in their music.
Dulcie Deamer knew what she was about
when she picked out Nora Satler, the pretty
youngster in this picture, as heroine
for her one-acter “Eve” and her new
play. “The Lucid Interval.” The three acts
of this will
fill the stage
of the little
Tom Thumb
theatre with
movement
again on Sat-
urday night.
Bombs and
aeroplanes and
poison-gas play
tlieir part in
this drama —
poison-gas, for
which its
young inventor
has played off
nation against
nation, heed-
less of every-
thing except
the millions it
will bring him,
almost wipes
out our pre-
sent civilisation in the first act. The second
act shows, a hundred years hence, a colony
of the descendants of a moiety of the survivors.
They live in a mountain fastness in Arca-
dian simplicity, and hate and despise
only one thing—gold. They have set up an
enormous nugget and the children are taught
to fear it, even as we fear the power of
the Devil. Into this patriarchal settlement
drops one day a crippled aeroplane. Its
pilot is the reincarnated young scientist of
Act I, still itching for gold and its power.
(One-half the survivors had just kept on in
the bad old way of aeroplanes, racing cars,
tiu hares, overdrafts, and so on.)
Amid the fields of leisure and the hillocks
of gold in the pure mountain air lives the
re-incarnated (first-act) love of the scient-
ist. He sees her and desire awakens again
in him. The aeroplane soars off, but in the
third act more of them return with
bombs. In the meantime, the young scient-
ist is persuaded by his girl that all is vanity
and gold is the world’s poison, not its
panacea—and what he suffers for the sake
of his new faith makes a stirring ending to
an unusual play. The whole is produced by
C. L. Cunnington.
Another landmark of the North Side of
the Harbor, for which our rather overwhelm-
ing Bridge has wiped out the necessity, is the
Ellen Desailly Kindergarten; but the lady
after whom that little childhood oasis was
called is to have her name perpetuated in
connection with the work she loved. Last
week the Wentworth Park Free Kinder-
garten was re-christened the Ellen Desaillv
by Lady Game, and though the commiuee of
the North Sydney Kindergarten is taking
over the responsibilities, members of the
Wentworth committee will give it. a help-
ing hand. At the celebration the kiddies
were full of charm. Merry eyes, thoughtful
eyes, shy eyes gazed at tho visitors, or
turned gladly at teacher’s word to some gay
game that was really a lesson. Interesting
high lights of the afternoon were the baby
orchestra and the singing of the ‘’National
Anthem,” standard-bearer and all complete.
Cranbrook's ball, which this year reached
high-water mark in fun and finance, owed
much of its
success to
Mrs. John W.
Maund, organ-
iser - in - chief.
Good field
work was done
by a commit-
tee composed
of the women-
folk of present
and past Cran-
brookians. The
Parents and
Friends’ Asso-
ciation and the
Old Boys
joined forces
this year, in-
stead of hold-
ing separate
balls, and the
school’s play-
ing fields will
benefit. Mrs.
Maund, you will remember, is one of the
city’s talented amateur actresses, and did
good work in such varied productions as
“The Constant Nymph” and “From Nine
Till Six.”
It was six o’clock in the morning before
some of the dancers at the Red Cross Ball
reached the home doorstep. Not that the
Red Crossers scheduled their ball to end
with the arrival of the milk, but they
planned their gaiety so well that half the
dancers developed the “let’s go on” feeling.
Still, nothing happened quite so debonair as
the after-theatre party recently that finished
up at seven o’clock in the morning by open-
ing the door to the milkman and demanding
milk and soda from an already depleted
bachelor host.
The Red Cross hasn’t staged a ball for
some years, so it did the thing handsomely—
set it about with snowy-capped Y.A.’s,
decked the David Jones ballroom with the
bright torch' of poinsettia, and in the middle
placed a silver dais. This bloomed with
spring flowers and was the right setting for
the new season frocks and hats displayed
adequately by a group of girls, among whom
Joan Osborne Wilkinson, Cherry Hayley and
Joyce Beazley were notable. When the
fashions had all been put away for the
night, two small pages arrived before the
vice-regals with red and white bandboxes.
These contained a flower hat apiece for Lady
Isaacs and Lady Game, who, on entry, had
traversed the room between a guard of honor
of Y.A.’s, carrying red and white garlands.
A ballet and Margery Hicklin and a group
from Her Majesty’s, still in their “Bitter
Sweet” costumes, also Margaret Rawlings
and Gabriel Toyne, from the Criterion, were
other garnishings of a richly-upholstered
night.
In the official group were the Deputy-
Premier Bruxner couple, her frock of black
lace worn with a short coat of lobelia-blue
velvet; Lud-Mayor VValder, the impressive
W. G. Layton, Miss Consett Stephen
(representing president Mrs. J. Macarthur
Onslow) and those tireless workers for the
soldier Miss K. Egan and Miss Rose Piper;
and m the changing groups one saw many
generous-hearted women who have never
spared time, energy or money since the first
Comforts; depots were formed.
Margaret Rawlings is to open a little
show of Heysen’s at the Grosvenor Galleries
on Thursday afternoon. Gabriel Toyne and
she blew m there one day last week, and so
dazzled the habitues with their knowledge of
art —composition, perspective, seventh dimen-
sional and sound draughtsmanship—that the
lady was asked to introduce the Heysens to
prospective buyers. Sydney Ure Smith will
first introduce Margaret.
The Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron is
developing the pioneer feeling. Last week
it celebrated its 70th birthday and it enn
prove it was the first collection of yachts-
“en the hardships of Port Jackson.
The clubhouse, one of the landmarks of the
harbor front, near Kirribilli, hung out the
lanthorn of rejoicing last Friday night, and
there was dancing on the wide enclosed
verandahs, while a young moon sailed aloofly,
and a cold wind blew up from the
Heads. Within the thick walls the atmo-
sphere was spring, and wattle, orange Ice-
land poppies and poinsettia flung out their
flames in rivalry to those sent up by blazing
logs. The walls were giddy with caricatures
of the. club’s notables, and in the little
drawing-room good luck had been heaped in
masses by enthusiastic committeeman It. Old.
who had sent great bunches of genuine Scot-
tish white* heather from his mountain
garden. Mrs. Don Taylor, whose husband
is one of the club’s indomitables, glowed in
her brunette coloring vivid as an autumn
berry above parchment satin. The Navy, in
tho person of Rear-Admiral Dalglish and
Captain and Mrs. Farquhar-Smith, drained
a goblet of congratulation. Commodore Paul
Ross and Mrs. Ross, the vice-Commodorc
Bayly Macarthurs, Rear-Commodore .J. Mil-
son, the Nossiters, Wedderburns, Mayor and
Mayoress Primrose, from North Sydney, and
the Laurie Watermans helped fill the old
house with the right brand of jokes and
laughter.
Concert-manager Hugo Larsen is looking
as though lie finds his new artist Szigeti as
congenial as Peter Dawson and Mark Ilam-
bourg. On tho financial side it is estimated
that the Hungarian fiddler will be. just as
big a success. Szigeti’s home is in Paris,
where he is surrounded by heaps of art
treasures and a loving wife, a Russian, who
can’t speak his tongue any more than he
can speak hers. However, as both of them
know four or five other languages, they
manage to come to an agreement about the
cooking of the mid-day chop. Szigeti came
to Australia with a Guarnarius violin
valued at £lO,OOO and a young Russian
prince, Nikita Magaloff. as his accompanist.
One of the first Australians the violinist met
was Melba, and he several times toured with
her during his first years in England.
Brisbane breezes in :
At the Q.T.C. “Benevolent” meeting Lady Wilson
wore black wool crepe with touches of white satin
and black hat with bands of black and white
ribbon; Miss Wilson chose navy cloth with a blue
and white spotted scarf and white felt hat. Mrs.
Cadell Garrick was in brown piped with beige and
brown cloche and fox furs; ocean blue was worn
by her daughter, Cecily.
Even the Taxation Office can relax in its hours of
leisure. “Many Happy Returns” was the slogan of
the departmental dance, and the entrance to the
Trocadero bore the inscription “The Den of Thieves.”
The Queensland Ambulance reaped the benefit.
.Lady Wilson was welcomed by the National
Council of Women before a large gathering in the
City Hall. President Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart, in
rose miroir velvet and chantilly lace, made the speech
of welcome. Lady Wilson was in black mariette,
Marjorie Wjlson in white cobweb lace with white
fur coat.
The Period Pageant Ball, for the benefit of Kinder-
gartens, was held in the City Hall. The Mayor
and Mayoress, Mrs. W. E, Bush, Mrs. A. E. Moore
and others welcomed the v.-r.’s and took them on
to the stage. M. S. Herring starred as Henry VIII.
in a green tunic laced with gold ermine and a
curled white plume. His lawful wife was Katherine
Howard, in powder blue; Mrs. Chappel played Anne
Boleyn, and Mrs. Conrad Anne of Cleves, both in
rose and gold ; the Glasgow lady in daffodil, jade and
flame was Catherine Parr. Opal green was worn by
pretty Mrs. J. L. Woolcock, the Judge's widow, as
Catherine of Aragon, and royal purple and silver
made Mrs. Cecil Palmer into Jane Seymour. Mrs.
Moore, in blue, presented six debs., Dorothy Malcolm,
Margaret Winterbotham, Dorothy Patterson, Helen
Griffith, Valerie MeMaster and Patti Jewell.
Captain A. J. W, Sutch married Gladys Wasley,
the singer, in the Milton Congregational
Church. The bride, who was given away by her
father, was in ivory silk georgette and Chantilly
lace; her bouquet was of white camelias. ■ Thelma
Sanderson ’maided in rose-pink Chantilly, and
Valerie Edge was train-bearer in pink georgette. A
guard of honor was formed by officers of the 49th
battalion. The reception was at McKimmin’s.
At St. Stephen’s, the new Federal M.H.R. for
Oxley, Francis M. J. Baker, took Myrtle Best to
wife. The bride was in magnolia duchesse satin
with Brussels lace veil. Mrs. H. East was matron
of honor, and Rene Ferry bridesmaid, both in dawn-
pink and water-green. The feasting was at the
Carlton; North Queensland sees the ’moon.
The Musical Association gave a party to Benno
and Mrs. Moiseiwitsch at Albert House. Mr. and Mrs.
Percy Brier, Gladys Frost, Victoria Blakey and May
Christmas received the guests. Brown cobweb lace
and a cream-brocaded coat were worn by Mrs. Moisei-
witsch; Mrs. Brier was in dark blue and pink; red
and black chiffon garbed Victoria Blakey; Gladys
Frost was in green.
The late poet Francis Kenna’s weekly column in
the “Courier” has been taken over by J. A. Philp,
who surely won’t lack for material. He lias lived
in and around newspaper offices ever since he was
a sub-editor of The Bulletin in the hectic ’eighties.
8.-P.’s director in Queensland, F. E. Loxton, will
soon have two boys at Pembroke College, Cambridge,
both at law. The elder son, a former “captain”
of Melbourne Grammar, lately passed his first year’s
law exams, with honors; Mrs. Loxton and her
daughter .lately went off by the Orama to see the
other boy, Colin, comfortably settled.


f
u
mmm
LA
TIIIC TREE nniIPHN or a copy o£ same to be
I nib rntc bUUKUN sent w i t h yo ur name and
address and 3d. stamps. Mrs. HUDSON: Please send
me free, your full information and instructions to
cure superfluous hair. Address: Frederica Hudson
(Hall 9H), No. 9 Old Cavendish Street, London,
W. 1., England.
IMPORTANT NOTE. — Mrs. Hudson belongs to a family
high in Society and is the widow of a prominent Army
Officer, so you can write her with every confidence to the
above address, where she has been established since 1916.
Who could tell that I
once suffered from
SUPERFLUOUS HAIR?
NOW IT IS GONE FOR EVER
Looking at me now, with my clear, un-
blemished skin, who would ever guess
that once I veiled my face to hide the
hideous growth of ugly, disfiguring hair?
Yet that is so. For years my life was a
misery. As the young wife of an officer
in India I suffered the agonies of shame.
I had a distinct moustache, almost a
beard. Nothing did me any good. Even
the expensive, painful, electric needle
brought nothing but a few days’ relief.
Always the ugly, disfiguring growths
came back again stronger than ever on
my face and body. Then, almost in a
day, my clouds were lifted in a most
amazing way. My husband saved the
life of a humble Hindoo soldier. In his
gratitude the Sepoy breathed to him the
closely-guarded secret of the Hindoo
religion, which keeps the women of that
race free from any sign of superfluous
hair. I tried it in desperation. From
that day—now years ago—l have never
seen a sign of 'superfluous hai.r'. I
watched for it daily for months, never
daring to hope that it was gone for-
ever. But it was! I was cured com-
pletely. I was a normal woman again.
Since then I have told many othjer
sufferers of my experience, and the
secret recipe lias never failed. It has
brought joy and permanent freedom in
every case. If you, too, suffer, let me
help von. Let me tell you how I suffered,
and let me pass on to you the secret
that saved me. I shall gladly send it free
if you will send me coupon, or a copy of
it. to-day with your name and address,
stating whether Mrs. or Miss. All I
ask is that you send me three penny
stamps to cover my outlay for postage,
etc. Address: Frederica Hudson (Hall
<>H), No. 9 Old Cavendish Street, London,
W. 1., England.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
The G.-G. attended the mid-week meeting
at Flemington, for which the sun shone
brightly. Feminine dressing was limited
mostly to tailored suits, cloth coats with
matching fur collars and felt hats. Browns
and dark tones generally prevailed. There
was a spattering of bottle green, the usual
liberal quota of black and white and a fair
amount of blue. Among those who favored
brown with felt millinery in unison were
Mrs. Percy Blackbourn, Mrs. Geoffrey Hag-
gard, Mrs. Richard Turnbull and Mrs, de
Berjgney. Mrs. Archibald Currie favored
the magpie blend, and Mrs. Oswald Syme
brightened her black suit and hat with a
dash of green. Grey and white-flecked
tweeds was chosen by Mrs. Alan Currie.
Despite Saturday’s vile weather there was
a great crowd to watch the Grand National
Steeplechase. The happiest of the spec-
tators was Dorothy Sheil, who made racing
history by being the first woman owner to
win tne great jumping event. Incidentally,
she trained her horse, and was once per-
mitted to school him over the big timber at
Flemington. A lot of sympathy went to
the South Australian girl Josephine Heysen,
who helped to train the favorite, Archesou.
To see the horse defeated was bad enough,
but for it to drop dead at the finish was
tragic.
Dressing was a matter of overcoats and
brollies. The rain sloshed down on um-
brellas of every hue, which in many cases
sheltered coat and millinery to match. There
was a note of gaiety in even the most win-
trv turnouts —a brilliant quill in a sombre
little hat or a vivid scarf to brighten a
tailored brown or black suit. Some sump-
tuous furs were to be seen in the members'
stand.
Lieut.-Governor Irvine attended for lun-
cheon and stayed till the end. In the throng
were Rear-Admiral Hyde and his wife; the
Clarke lady; Mr. and Mrs. Russell Clarke,
she in a black and white suit; and Mrs.
Simon Fraser, in fawn frock with a short
coat of beaver and a felt hat in like tone.
Mrs. John Brownlee, who was with Mrs.
Tom Smith, was smart in grey with touches
of royal blue. Kingsford Smith’s lady had
her interest centred in Mosstrooper, owned
by relatives. Mrs. T. V. Millea, who
had a luncheon party, was tailored in black
with a coat-posy of white blossoms ; she was
accompanied by her daughter Mary, all in
brown. Dr. and Mrs. Terence Butter, of
the Apple Isle, were among the visitors.
Mrs. Len Buxton, whose horse, High Brae,
won her two stakes, was there, a study in
brown. Mrs. Everard Brown, who has been
missing from the races of late was among
tne patrons. The C. Q. Fairbairns, the
Kenneth Mackinnons and their daughter Jac-
queline, and Mrs. Donald McDonald, of
Auckland, were among others who came
here for the race week.
The Wattle Path dance rendezvous at St.
Kilda almost bulged with the crowd that
attended the ball for various charities orga-
nised by Valerie Purves and others. Miss
Purves induced Mr. Thring, of Efftee Films,
to make a search for likely cinema actors and
actresses a feature of the jollo. Beatrice
Day, in black lace, knight-of-the-brusli John
Longstaff and Gregan McMahon were among
the selectors. They surveyed the whole mob
with critical eyes, and among their final
selections were Elsa Andrew, Mrs. Aubrey
Gibson and Marjorie Slierwin. Miss Purves
came to the ball in a Patou pink chiffon
velvet robe with a cape bordered with grey
fur and trimmed with jewelled embroidery.
Cynthia Brookes danced in cherry-red satin.
The G.-G. was there for an hour or so, and
his guard of honor and a band helped to
brighten the show. Uniforms were permitted,
so there were some splashes of scarlet and
glintings of gold braid amid the feminine
finery. The Fairbairn lady, Mrs. Rex H'all.
in vivid green and black, and Mrs. Richard
Linton, whose black chiffon gown had a
corsage decoration of rhinestones, were there
as representatives of beneficiary charities.
Rear-Admiral Hyde’s wife was in pale blue,
with pink lapels on her bodice. Major-
General Bruche’s wife chose a flouned
powder-blue gown, and the Chauvel lady was
in black lace, with a moss-green waist belt.
Air-Commodore Williams’s wife sported
hunters’ green. Mrs. J. Purves was in ruby-
colored chiffon, and her sister Florrie Green
wore a pale pink flat cr§pe frock. Hope
Syme was a dainty figure in pale green lace
and Anne Outhwaite was clad in black
velvet, with chemisette and puff sleeves of
cream net. Jacqueline Mackinnon combined
in her frock white and black velvet and
Elaine Linton, of Sydney, was there in a
frock of white chiffon.
The Uni. women students’ dance, at Wattle
Path, St. Kilda, was attended by Prof. Agar
and Prof. MacCallum and liis wife, she in
white and silver brocade. The president of the
Uni. Women’s Association, Jean Gardiner,
chose dark-green moire. Ticket secs, were
Alison Alsop, who flitted round in pale yel-
low chiffon, and Elizabeth Pearson, whose
frock was of sunset-pink georgette.
A dance at the Rex in aid of the Tweddle
Hospital was organised by the central auxil-
iary, the president of which, Mrs. J. W.
Springthorpe, danced in a gown of purple
tones. Flora Anderson and Alys Hutchings
were the ticket secs. Mrs. Webb, Mrs. F.
Sheppard Gfimwade and Mrs. Iv. Fairley
were on the committee.
Mayor Diver, of Northcote, and his wife
gave a ball at the local Town Hall, which
blossomed with red and gold flowers tumb-
ling from baskets amid wreaths and gar-
lands of greenery. Mrs. Olver’s gown of
ring velvet was of deep gold hue, fashioned
on flowing lines. Her daughter Gwen, who
lent her mother a hand, wore jade-green
satin. The guests included the district Par-
liamentarians and their wives and the
mayors and mayoresses of neighboring
suburbs, who mingled in the dance with some
GOO residents of Northcote. f
The E.S.U. celebrated the Yankees
glorious Fourth with a dance in the lower
chamber of the Town Hall. Decorations con-
sisted of the letters E.S.U. in crimson
between the draped Union Jack and Stars-
and Stripes, and blue and green balloons
that floated over supper tables decked with
vases of yellow and orange blossoms, the
party being on cabaret lines. Owing to the
recent death of a relative the president ot
the Union, Knight) Arthur Robinson, and his
lady were unable to be present, and Mr.
and Airs. Herbert Brookes deputised for
them, with the Consul for U.S.A., Air. John
Dye, and his wife. Mrs. Brookes wore panne
velvet of pale lilac tint that melted into a
chiffon hem. She handed to Mi's. Dye a
posy that matched the lady’s frock of pale
pink moire and its coatee, finished with
pleated ruchings. Lud-Alayor Smith was
there. Noel Clapp and Dr. Godfrey Smith
demonstrated new dances. In the throng
were Prof, and Mrs. T. Al. Cherry, she in
draperies of cream satin, and Airs. Hylton
Dale, with pointed flounces of pale yellow
chiffon beneath a brocaded coat trimmed with
black fur. Airs. 11. Stead, a visitor from
the U.S.A., danced in a gown of pigeon’s
egg green. Her daughters Elspeth and Jean
accompanied her, the former wearing a frock
patterned in' a Chinese design of pink
peonies on a biscuit-colored background; Jean
was in pale green satin finished with a
large bow at the back, one loop of the
bow being of primrose hue. Dr. and Airs.
T. Ta.it, Dr. Nyulasy and Mr. and Mrs. H.
L. Setchell were also among the patrons.
The hon. sec., Edith Noall, sported a frock
of ruby-colored lace, and Muriel, Clarke, who
aided her, was in black lace and georgette.
At the cocktail party given at No. 9 by the
Hennessy lady on the eve of her youngest
daughter A r alerie’s wedding with Prof. Heinze,
wattle, heath and narcissi decked the recep-
tion rooms. The hostess wore black satin
with a cape of sable and hat of black velvet.
A raspberry-red marocain frock with a shiny
straw hat of the same shade, trimmed at
the back with matching flowers, was worn
by the bride-elect, who held a shower
bouquet of pink blossoms. Airs. Paul
Fogarty was a symphony in bottle-green,
and the Hennessy lady’s other married
daughter, Airs. Ray Connelly, sported
geranium pink with millinery of the same
shade. Airs. Heinze was there with her
daughter Mona. Knight James Barrett
brought his lady, whose lacquered black
straw toque topped a rose-red gown. The
Alorell lady and Sheila, the Robert Bests,
Prof, and Mrs. A. Gunn and Airs. Harry
Emmerton were in the throng. Among the
musicians present were Henry Penn and his
wife, Mr. and Airs. William James, Aladame
Orff-Solscher, Weston Pett and his wife and
Lindsay Biggins.
The laughing lady in riding costume is
Josephine Heysen, of Ambleside, near Adel-
aid e. Her
hobby is the
training
of racehorses,
jumpers pre-
ferred, and
she brought
Arche son
over for the
National, with
sad results.
She is a daugh-
ter of painter
Hans Heysen,
but has no
ambition to
follow in her
father’s foot-
steps. Almost
before she
could walk
she could ride,
and poor
Archeson was
her mount m
the hunting field, where he performed so well
that the owner allowed her to school him
for races.
The Toorak-South Yarra junior auxiliary
of the Children’s Hospital put on a hop
at the Embassy to help the institution. The
president of the auxiliary, Moira Bryans,
wore dull green, and the hon. sec., Mary
Bostock, danced in peach pink with a match-
ing necklet of flowers. The ticket secs, were
Marjorie Clarke, arrayed in a fussy gown
of pale-pink taffeta and net, and Joan Bos-
tock, who favored pale-blue ninon. General
Chauvel and his lady and several other
members of the senior auxiliary were there.
A dance at Grosvenor, Toorak, hostessed
by Mrs. Hubert Raleigh, of Rochester, and
Mrs. G. H. Adams, of Toorak, headed the
social events of Grand National week.
It celebi’ated the coming-out of a trio of charm-
ing girls. They were Denise Raleigh, whose
gown was of peach-pink satin - r Marv Armit,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Duke Armit, of
Bindi, Gippsland, and niece of Mi’s. Adams,
who chose a silver brocade frock with touch
of rose-red in wee cape and necklet; and
Celia Weigall. daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Gerald Weigall, whose upholstery was white
satin and lace. There were a few married
folk, relatives mostly of the debs., among
Melbourne’s younger set. Mrs. Raleish s
draperies were of black lace, and Mrs.
Adams set off her soft pink satin robe with
a cherry-velvet coatee. Mrs. Duke Armit
came in georgette gown of midnight blue
tint. Knight Edward Mitchell and his lady,
Mr. Justice Mann and Mrs. Mann and Mr.
Duke Armit were among the present.
Its motto taken from the couplet “He
who gives a child a treat Makes joybells
dance in Heaven’s street,” a “Joybells”
cabaret dance was held at the Rex for the
benefit of the Frankston Children’s Hospi-
tal. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, who wore a
black chiffon velvet robe cut on princess
lines, was prime mover, and the jollo was
attended by about 450. Ribbon wristlets
with tiny gilded bells were on sale, along
with flowers and sweets, and there were
raffles. Mrs. Frederick Henty, who danced in
black lace, was co-organiser. The president
of the assisting committee was Jean Turn-
bull. Among the helpers were Louise
Lovely, in cherry-colored satin ; Esme Allee,
in beige-hued georgette; Mrs. Roy King and
Joyce Walker, both wearing frocks of leaf-
green hue, and Mrs. George Haines, whose
wine-shaded gown was set off by a lei of
real stocks of blending tints. Marie Tait,
whose emerald-green frock was almost hid-
den beneath a coat of dark ruby velvet, per-
formed exhibition dances with C. S. Wil-
kinson. Pat Wenman and Bonnie Living-
stone also contributed to the entertainment.
Among those around the tables were Mrs.
Lauchlan Mackinnon, president of the iChild-
ren’s Hospital; Mr, and Mrs. Barry Thom-
son ; Mrs. Flemington Dunstan, in the faint-
est pink satin; Dr. and Mrs. Hume Turn-
bull ; Miss Linda Byron Moore, the Charles
Wenmans and Mr. and Mrs. A. B. Fuller.
At the wedding of Prof. Bernard Heinze
and Valerie Hennessy at Newman College
chapel there
was a feast
of music, as
befitted the
nuptials of
the head of
the Uni. Con.
A string
orchestra ac-
c o m p a nied
Carrie Cairn-
duff in appro-
priate uu m-
bers. Pink and
w’hite blos-
soms deco-
rated the altar
and sanctu-
ary, and
Father Alur-
phy, Rector of
Newman’s,
tied the knot.
Cream satin,
purchased in
Florence several years ago by the bride's
mother, was used for the bridal gown,
which was embellished with embroid-
ery of seed pearls that glistened under an
exquisite lace and tulle veil—this had been
worn by the Hennessy lady and her other
two daughters at their weddings. A bouquet
of real orange blossoms and orchids fitted
nicely into the picture. Sheila Morell and
Iris Connolly were attendant ’maids, in
frocks of pink marocain with pink and red
blossoms about their net caps. A dinner
party at Menzies followed the ceremony.
Above is a recent picture of the bride.
Pianist John Simons intends to go abroad
fov further study by the Themistocles on
September 13, sailing by way of South
Africa.
From Westralia: —
The Rev. L. Marina handed over sister Stella to
the care of the Rev. William Patrick, with Arch-
bishop Le Fanu to forge the marriage link. The
beautiful bridal gown fell in the melting softness of
ivory satins into a flared train lined with georgette
and a glint of silver lace. The head-dress of tulle
and pearls, with its narrow pearl chinstrap, held in
position the misty tulle veil. In the bridal bouquet
hyacinths were intermingled with cream and pale
pink roses. Maisie Farquhar attended in ivory
georgettes fluted with godets upon the skirt. She
carried a sheaf of pink and gold roses and her
hair was girt with a chaplet of gold leaves. From
the lofty St. George’s Cathedral, crowded for the
ceremony, guests drifted to the Savoy, where Mrs.
Merry weather acted as hostess.
Connie Moffit has departed for Melbourne and
her new job as organiser of the social service depart-
ment of that city’s psychological eiinic. Her
colleague, Norma Parker, is doing similar work.
Both girls got their arts degrees at Perth Uni. and
studied social service ip the U.S. Following in
their footsteps is Eileen Davidson, who is off to
Washington.
This State has won a silver shield for the, best
organised local Baby Week competition in the Empire,
The shield is an annual, trophy presented by the
National Baby Week . Council of Great Britain.
Dr. Dorothea Parker is putting the finishing
touches to her trousseau. Among parties for the
bride-elect was a tea and music afternoon given by
Mrs. Cairns-Hill. The principal guest clasped a
posy to tone with her russet frock.
Marie Lloyd and John Greenway-Punch chose a
dewy morning for their nuptials. The bride’s ivory
laces were fashioned into a gown of long tight
sleeves and gored flounces touching the ground. A
bouquet of gold roses glimmered within the mesh of
the hand-embroidered tulle veil. Bride’s sister
Thelma was arrayed in salmon-pink laces, with
slippers and hat of the same shade.
Youngsters still in short pants were permitted an
eyeful of the C.B.C.’s twentieth annual hop. The
band pleased them mightily and the supper tables
made eyes round with wonder. Mr. President Dwyer
squired his better-half, in black iaces, and young
daughter Mollie, in carnation-shaded chiffons. Mercia
Scott wore rose-petal satins and sister Mollie took
the floor with a dash of silver upon her buttercup
ninon. Mrs. Baker, in the mistiness of pearl-grey
georgettes, chaperoned Dorothy, in pale pink. Mrs.
Cogan pinned her faith to black velvets and Miss
Sundercombe to delphinium laces.
Apple Island amenities :
St. Virgil’s College’s coming-of-age ball was
quite a swish affair. A committee of women had
made the City Hall a picture, with ropes of greenery
and flowers between pillars and masses of foliage
and chrysanthemums everywhere. Another committee
managed the supper arrangements. The general secs,
were Miss Sheila Keating and Mr. Frank Sayer.
Thirty debs, made their bows to the Lieut.-Gov.
and to Archbishop Hayden. Mrs. F. X. de Bavay
sponsored them, and after the presentation they
danced a set of Lancers. The v.r. party consisted
of the Lieut.-Gov. (his lady was ill and couldn’t
appear), Rt. Rev. Dr. Hayden, knight Elliott Lewis
and his lady, Mrs. de Bavay, Mayor and Mayoress
Wignall, Bro. Garrev, Major and Mrs. 0. Harris,
Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Unwin, Mr. and Mrs. U. Haley,
Miss Keating, F. Sayer, Father Green, Mr. and Mrs.
Leo Doyle, Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Ogilvie.
Mt. Wellington is white with snow, to the great
content of ski-ers and winter sports’ clubs.
Edith nenry had the satisfaction of seeing the
National Theatre, Launceston, well filled for the
performance of Milne’s “Make Believe,” by her
elocution pupils at the Meth. Ladies’ College. The
kiddies were excellently trained.
The Midland Hunt Club had a great day at Ross.
After the run there was hospitality for all at the
A. E. Bennetts’ Ashby—Mr. Bennett is president.
Nancy Schaedel and Frank Johnson were made
one at St. Stephen’s, Sandy Bay. The bride’s frock
was of heavy ivory satin with tight, ruched bodice
and fully-flared skirt, with train; she wore an
embroidered net veil and carried a bouquet of
Christmas roses and pink carnations. Molly Schaedel
and Win Johnson ’maided in charming frocks of
apple-green chiffon velvet, with silver girdles at
waist and small puffed sleeves.
St. Patrick’s, Launceston, held its 12th annual
ball at the Albert Hall, where the stage was arranged
as a lounge, and supper was served in the banquet
hall. Miss Winnie Monds, aeting-Mayoress while her
mother is on the sick list, came with the Mayor.
Adeline Ritchie and P. Dulling were the two bustling
secs.
The Hobart Repertory Society staged Galsworthy’s
“The Silver Box” to full houses at the Theatre
Royal. Staging, lighting and general scenic effects
were a tribute to Miss Wilton’s careful work.
Beattie Jordan’s playing of the charwoman, Mrs.
Jones, was a piece of artistry, and Jack Mitchell,
as the desperate and dissolute husband, gave effective
support.
Adelaide ambles in :
Three more debutantes fluttered when Mrs. W. T.
Mortlock and her younger sister, Mrs. Richard
Hawker, who recently came out from England, enter-
tained the younger set at the former’s residence,
Palmer-place, North Adelaide. Mrs. Hawker’s second
daughter, Naomi, tall and graceful like her mother,
wore gold and white brocade; Joan, Mrs. Seymour
Hawker’s daughter, was frocked in ivory ninon and
Margaret Newland chose white satin. The hostesses
both wore black, Mrs. Mortlock in ring velvet and
Mrs. Hawker in black satin. Quite a number of
station people came to town for the dance.
The marriage of John Edwards, of Bertram Estate,
near Penang, and Marjorie, daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. F. E. Rogers, of Fullarton, S. Aus., was cele-
brated on July 2 at Penang, Malaya. Marjorie left
Adelaide recently with stacks of presents and good
wishes.
The Adelaide Hunt Club held its ball at the
Palais Royal, where his Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven
took part in the hunting lancers. White satin
frocks with scarlet coats faced with pale blue lace
ruffles and black velvet picture hats with sweeping
plumes made a picturesque toilette for the ladies,
while the men wore dress coats in hunting pink,
with blue lapels. There was a brush fence with a
stuffed fox, and red horseshoes in profusion. Lady
Hore-Ruthven was gowned in pale grey beaded
georgette. Mr. E. A. Brooks (president), with Mrs.
Brooks, Mr. W. P. A. Lapthorne (master) and
Mrs, Lapthorne, received the v.r. party, with whom
was Mrs. L. L. Hill, in black flounced taffeta.
The University refectory was the setting for the
Pharmacy Ball on the same night. The Pharmacy
faculty is a large one, and about 250 were present.
Guests were received by Mr. and Mrs. M. C. Moore,
Miss K. Lean and Mr. I. J. Evans.


* 9im
nfia'L
oUK
NOT
NEXT
Holiday
concessions have brought Pacific
Island tours within reach of all, so why not
spend your next holiday amid ideal surroundings?
Excursions to SUVA—HONOLULU—RAROTONGA— PAPEETE via N.Z.
247 George Street,
Sydney.
For full particulars apply
UNION S. S. CO., Ltd.
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN*’
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Lubricate
“Life of Car Is Directly Propor-
tionate to Care of Lubrication— 9 *
(Fred Berry in Smith’s Weekly, Dec. S, 1931) .
High Pressure Lubrication Sys-
tem services EVERY lubrication
point, every metal-to-metal bear-
ing surface with the special ALEMITE Lubricant designed to
give protection unknown to ordinary greasing methods.
To get more car miles—a year or more of added service—see
that ALEMITE—the high pressure System of forced lubrication
—brings specialized ALEMITE Lubricants to the wear-surfaces
of your car. Order "ALEMITE” instead of "grease”—for
smoother, easier, more economical performance and longer
motor life. ALEMITE Service may be had at the better stations,
but if yours is not equipped as yet, a card to any of the. dealers
listed below will bring all particulars: ' . K-Aust. 11-32
ALEMITE CORPORATION Chicago,U.S.A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
654 George Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
d
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd.,
ATKINS (W. A.)Ltd.,'B94
E. A. MACHIN
284 Pitt St!, Sydney ' MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane
Hay St., Perth CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie St„ Adelaide
& CO. (Pty). Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
THe Present.
BY VANCE PALMER.
EVER since the three lugger’s had put in
for shelter under the lee of the island
a definite uneasiness had spread through
Olroyd’s wife. Like dark storm-birds they
were, those luggers, coming in from the
outer sea and folding their wings. Yet they
alone had not created the vague sense of
foreboding in her. Even the night before she
lmd felt it, lying awake in the cottage under
the lighthouse and wondering why Charlie
had gone off so abruptly, with nothing but
a morose bark when she asked him what his
errand ashore was:
“Never you mind. You got nothing to do
but look after the light. Can’t a man have
a night off if he wants to? It’s the first
time for a year.”
She had watched the little boat with its
outboard motor fade to a speck in the
broken seas, knowing there must be some
eruptive violence working in Charlie if he
would put out in such weather. In spite of
his years along the coast he was not a good
hand with a boat, and hated to be out in a
blow. But there had been a cantankerous-
ness about him lately as he mooched along
the beach, fiddling with the engine of his
boat or mending his seine net ; it had com-
municated itself' to her, too—the slightest
word and they were up to their necks in a
quarrel, stabbing at one another, seeking to
hurt:
“You’re always grizzling. Wliat the devil
did you expect when you came here?”
“I don’t know. You did your level best
to make the life look rosy.”
“Anyway, it’s a better life than serving
up food to caneeutters in a third-rate pub.”
“Is it? It don’t seem to keep you very
cheerful.”
Words that, meant nothing but the work-
ing off of their inner exasperation ! Some-
thing had gone wrong with the rhythm of
their lives. They were too much alone
together, seeing. no .one, chewing the few
little bones of news over and. over, finding
nothing fresh to think or talk about.
And yet, now that Charlie had gone, the
island had taken on > an aching. loneliness.
Clouds the hue of bruised, flesh gathered on
the horizon and drove over, shedding floods
of blinding rain. They .passed, and . the
spreading sun brought an unreal greenish
glitter to the palms and undergrowth. Com-
pared with the high, solid masses of the dis-
tant mainland, the island seemed a bit of
floating weed, torn from some rock and set
adrift.
Yet there were the luggers, lying just
within the reef and getting shelter from it.
They had no doubt about the. island’s
stability. Olroyd’s wife, hanging out clothes
by the tank, felt herself tauten defensively
as she watched them. . She' knew by, their
rakrsli build they were from Thursday Island ;
the mission-luggers were ' more. squat and
heavy. And they were swarming*with life.
Boat after boat put out ■ across the water;
dark forms darted about in the shallows near
the shore, spearing fish; voices echoed across
from the luggers. These natives seemed sud-
denly to have taken charge of the island.
She resented it. Eighteen months on the
island had not created a friendly feeling in
her toward the lugger-boys. She had the
prejudices of her kind; they were niggers,
with a life remote from her own. They
looked at her with bold eyes, and there was
a cheeky independence in tlieir voices when
they greeted her. Did they know she was
alone on the island now?
“Hey, missus !”
She turned to see three of them beside the
tank, one with a fish-spear and the others
carrying a varied assortment of heavy shells.
“Where CharlieV” they asked her.
She went on hanging her kerosene-can of
clothes on the line.
“What d’you want him for?”
“Charlie want to buy shell? Helmet-shell,
trumpet, bailer. One tin tobacco each.”
“All right. Leave them there, and he’ll
have a look at them in the morning.”
They squatted down, eyeing her curiously.
She suddenly grew hot behind the ears.
Charlie hadn’t noticed any change in her
figure, but would they?
“Charlie gone ashore, eh?”, one of them
said.
She affected not to hear, and went on peg-
ging out her clothes.
“Charlie out in the whaleboat?” they
repeated.
They were silent for a while, looking at
their shells. Some others had come up,
trailing their fish-spears, and they began to
confer together, arguing in low-pitched
voices. Suddenly one rose and came over to
her.
“Here, missus, you take t’ lot. Two tin
tobacco.” '' •; .
“No,” she said definitely, “I’ve got no
tobacco. Take them off or leave them till
Charlie comes back.”
There was a brusqueness in her voice that
was meant to drive them away. But they
went reluctantly. They were out of
tobacco, and had counted on getting some
from Charlie. Olroyd’s wife was conscious
of sulky looks that changed to derisive laugh-
ter as they went up the beach.
She sat down on the edge of the verandah,
looking out towards the knob of mainland
from which Charlie’s boat would come. It
was a rotten shame for him to leave her like
this, in her condition! Didn’t he know how
it. was with her? He ought to have guessed,
without her telling him. But perhaps he
had guessed and was angry. Wasn’t that
why he had been going about with a smoky
darkness in his eyes for the last few weeks,
barking at her over his shoulder?
“Men like him ought never to marry.” she
thought; “they’re only happy when they’re
aloue.”
And, in sentimental retrospect, she thought
of the young Italian who had once made
love to her at a picnic up the Johnstone.
He was only working in a cutting-gang then,
so she hadn’t let the affair go far, in spite
of his good looks and passionate words. But
now he had a cane-farm of his own, drove
a car. and was a member of the shire coun-
cil. That was the way life made a joke of
you!
There were her dreams of the island,
too. It had seemed romantic and exciting
when Charlie had talked of it in McGrath’s
coffee-room, bringing out his shells, showing
his photos, telling tales of the lugger-boys
and the reef. But how tame it had proved
in reality! A square mile of coral sand,
covered with palms and jungle, and quiet, as
a graveyard! .
Later, when she had trimmed and lit the
light, she felt better, but there was still no
sign of Charlie’s boat, and the lugger-boys
had come ashore again. The lights of their
lanterns danced like fireflies along the beach;
their talk and laughter was blown in shreds
across the strip of green. They had seized
the opportunity of being near land to hold
a eorroboree.
The prelude of wild choruses, the move-
ment of shadowy figures down there on the
beach, re-awakened : the uneasiness' in
Olroyd’s wife. She visualised the dark, gleam-
ing bodies, the fluttering red loincloths, faces
contorted, eyes showing the whites. Once,
mouths before, she had gone with Charlie
to squat in the sand and watch the boys
corroboree, and had been lialf-revoltcd by
the way he had responded to it all. Almost
as if he were as much moved as they were.
• “There’s dancing for you. "Cop the way
that big fellow in front chucks his weight
about. Work themselves up a treat, these
boys—not like the mission niggers. Don’t
know what they’re doing half the time.”
But she had always been scared of men,
even white men, who didn’t know what they
were doing. Those -nights at McGrath’s
when a cane-gang had cut out, and i she nad
fled upstairs to dock herself in her room!
' She lay down on. the sofa and shut her
eyes. The wind had. changed its quarter
slightly, and had found a loose sheet of iron
on the roof.
“Gone for g00d.... Gone for good,” it
was saying.
' And she saw. Charlie in the bar at Port
Mahon, swaggering, a little, his tongue loos-
ened by drink. Dark and attractive, he was
in the first flush of a spree, humor flashing
from his eyes, energy released in him., no
didn’t look liis years when that fever, of
life was on him: he was young as that Dago
on the Johnstone, his movements swift anti
lively, his skin lit by an inner glow.
- She saw him surrounded by half a dozen
of his cronies. There was a woman in the
bar—-fair-haired, glassy-eyed, with a com-
plexion that had come, out of a bottle. She
laughed at everything Charlie said ; her gold
teetli gleamed. And her interest in him
roused Charlie, carried him away. Whatever
was drawn taut in him during those days
of brooding on the beach snapped with a
jerk.
“I’ve had enough of it over there. It
don’t suit me, sticking to a rock like a
shellfish. But when I make up my mind,
there’s no looking ahead or behind with me.
One slash at the rope, and all’s clear.”
li’e had .taken his shells—those shells he
had been collecting for two years from tho
lugger-boys. Forty pounds he expected to
get for them from some man he dealt with
on the mainland. And with forty pounds in
his pocket the world would be a wide one
for Charlie. He knew the. sea; he had half
a dozen trades at the tips of his lingers.
And there was that streak of remorselessness
in him, even of cruelty. When he struck off
on a new track he - would have no scruples
about what he left behind.
Sounds ■ of wild chanting came up the
beach, the steady beat, of a tin kettledrum.
For the first time Olroyd’s wife felt the new-
life flutter within her. But instead of streng-
thening her, filling her with vitality, it made
flic world around her dissolve like mist.
Wave after wave of self-pity flooded her.
She was on a raft, alone with the lugger-
boys,'floating out to sea. Ashore, far away,
she could see Charlie, but bis back was
turned ,to her and he was-squatting on his
haunches chaffering with someone about his
shells. She tried to cry' out to him. hut
the boys mocked her, jeered in her face;
she felt them crowding round her, shouting
her down. Further and further away from
the dark ranges of the mainland she was
floating. ... .
It was a whispering that woke her, a
sound of bare feet padding along the veran-
dah. She sat. up on the sofa, a real fear at
her throat. The dark outside seemed full
of crouching figures. A blank, eyeless face
was staring in through the lighted window.
.. Bereft of all self-control she called with
an hysterical shriek:
“Charlie! . . . Charlie!”
The door was pushed open and two lugger-
boys i entered • carrying a dripping figure
between them. They blinked at the light;
they were shy and awkward in the woman’s
presence, for she had sprung from the sofa
in her stockings, a tangle of hair covering
her eyes. The first boy, a big handsome
fellow with powerful shoulders, did his best
to reassure her as lie helped to lay Charlie
on the sofa;
’ “He’s all right, Missus. Hit'his head when
t’ boat capsize—that’s all. We got out as
soon as we hear t’- engine stop. Big sea
running there outside t’ reef.”
Charlie was lying dazed and sobered, his
eyes open, but his mind clouded by a Woolly
mist. Yet he knew quite well what he hail
done. In the dark he had missed the outer
edge of the channel, till seeing the reef
just in front of him he had veered at an
abrupt angle and brought liis boat broadside
on to the swell. He was • remorseful and a
little humiliated. After all these years he
ought to be able to bring the boat in, drunk
and blindfolded.
But he was lost in admiration at the
way his wife took it all. Miraculously she
had found her slippers, straightened her
hair, regained her self-control. She paid
very little attention to him, but busied her-
self .with the lugger-boys, pressing cake and
tobacco upon them, opening a new bottle
of orangeade. From somewhere on the outer
borders of space lie heard'her matter-of-fact
voice, penetrated by a little# flattering laugh:
“You boys know how to dance, all right.
Keep time. together as if you’d, been train-
ing for, years, and, put all you . know into it.
Not like those mission-boys.”
After they had gone she sat down on the
sofa beside him, her left hand just touching
his wet hair. , She was soft and subdued.
He was, too; the.cranky knots all smoothed
out in liim. For a. long time they did not
speak, and then the . woman said quietly:
“Feeling better, .Charlie?”
“I’m all right.... i, Ought to be skinned,
though, for mucking things up in front of
those lugger-boys .Anyway I didn’t
forget your birthday.”
“What?”
“Kid you didn’t remember!”
As a matter of fact she hadn’t remem-
bered. ' For the last few weeks she had
been thinking far ahead.
. He put his hand inside his shirt. The
mother-of-pearl belt was there all right; it
was too short to go round him so lie had
fastened it with string. Ho drew it out.
and the liglit shone on the silver clasp, the
neat squares with Chinese patterns.
“Surprised, are you?” he said with a
teasing laugh. “What d’you think I went
ashore for? And in weather like that!”
It was. pure bluff, of course.' The date
had suddenly, pierced,'liis muzzy brain with
a white light when he was writing a receipt
for the shell-money.' But that would not
have mattered'. to her, .. even if she had
guessed. She was a woman, and knew the
use and comfort of lies.
, “You’re real good to me, Charlie,” she
said with a sudden gush of feeling. “I
don’t know what I ever; grizzle about. Any-
how I’m going to be as sweet as sugar from
now 0n!.., .’Ami there’s something I’ve got
to tell you,, Charlie. You’re not going to
hold it up;against;;me, are'yen? I ought to
have told you weeks ago.”
Epitaph.
Cover her-grave with shells the sea has
scattered,
Frail as the flying foam the winds unfurled,
Their shallow cups have held the sea
enchaliced,
As she the restless tides of all the world.
N.S.W.'
DYMPNA CUSACK.


y j * p ,
arses Indian JKoot
'mm
are
the Renown
me
MflH pHHi
Which Should Never be Neglected
Constipation is the root of nine-tenths of the sickness of man,
and a large proportion of the sickness of women. It is a simple
thing of itself, but, like many simple things, it may grow and
become complicated.
When the bowels are clogged the waste matter decays and
ferments and enters the blood and is carried to all parts of the body,
producing Headaches, Biliousness, Sleeplessness, Heartburn,
Loss of Appetite, Indigestion, Neuralgia, Rheumatism, and
various other ailments disturbing the Heart and Nervous System,
and if continued is liable to cause Inflammation of the Bowels,
Liver, and Kidneys.
To maintain a healthy system the bowels should operate at least once every twenty-four hours. This is
one of Nature’s wise provisions which is too often ignored, and the result is untold suffering. Women and children
are the greatest offenders, but why suth should be the case is a problem to be solved.
Nature often requires a little assistance, and if this assistance is given at the first indication much distress
and suffering may be averted. Mothers, especially, should guard the health of their children, and inculcate
regular habits. As a family remedy for Costiveness, Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have a wide reputation.
They are mild in their action, causing neither weakness nor sickness, and do not gripe. To overcome
constipation, take from one to four Pills regularly until the bowels move daily, and are restored to healthy action.
When buying BE SURE AND OBTAIN DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS,
which are packed in a blue wrapper.
'A
DSMORSES
g
2
7a
7
2
I
2
z
g
I
z
%
7
7a
liver
the
z
FOR
'A
WZSAY/Z/Al
m
///
'A,
£3
1
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
C
FOR AUSTRALIANS
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GE.O., Sydney.
Please jorward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from .
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/.; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
d
G°
e
5®
, O M*
# 4 '
K-'
' .y"+&sp>


wi RE PRODUCTS
WILL GIVE
SCCUMTYfbr uour STOCK
de in NewcasHe HIW
BHPSTIII
HYLANDS BROS
•Mm*
WAPATAt+\v
STAR Y»
STEEL FENCING
WARATMF
G ALVAN I S.EO
'ARATANN/ steel FENCING 1
POSTS
The post that is rust-proof, fire-proof,
ant-proof, easy to erect, and practically
everlasting.
HINGED JOINT
FENCE
WIRE
“Once strained, always tight.” AH
gauges, in Standard and special
soft qualities.
BARBED WIRE
“Iowa” and “Waukegan” Waratah
barbed wire is true to gauge—of uniform
temper, suitable to all climatic conditions.
Renowned for strength and flexibility.
WABATA+f
WIRE NETTING'
Manufactured in all sizes, gauges and widths,
for rabbits, sheep, dogs, pigs, poultry, etc.
Waratah Wire Netting is always full weight,
with regular mesh, good appearance, and per-
fectly galvanized for maximum protection
against
weather. Runs
out straight
and flat.
d
WARATAtt / " /♦«(•<!
FENCE. /
DROPPERS
mmmßs
THE EVER’OPEN
GATE.
I
rAWAlmwjiifAl
SUPPLIED BY ALL LEADING STOREKEEPERS—AND AT
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.) LTD., MELBOURNE & NEWCASTLE.
