

KODAK
ME DAY SERVICE
Every KODAK PRINT and every
Kodak Enlargement—every piece
of photographic work handled
by Kodak—is truly a Kodak
Product.
Behind stands the world
wide Kodak organisation and all
that organisation’s unequalled
photographic knowledge and ex-
perience.
This means that your holiday prints will
be gloriously bright and clear and sparkling—
you’ll have something you’ll be really proud to
show your friends.
Every Kodak Print is marked on the back
“Kodak Print” for your protection.
Leave spools before 10 a.m.—
Prints ready 5 p.m.
Ss
s
Hi
?|||g
m
&
1?;.
::
f *
n
fc
I*. A
■•< 'X
:
I
y'
L
*
OH
USE VERICHROME FILM
m
*
•C
•m
<s4**
«*-
o
<ss
c#
«(^yv.
St
;£
F»n
if
**
3»5
s*
Verichrome is double-coated, giving wide latitude
for the correction of errors of exposure.
Verichrome is highly orthochromatic, ensuring im-
proved renderings of the colors of nature.
Verichrome is free from halation.
Verichrome lengthens your photographic day.
Load with Verichrome and improve the standard oj your work.
KODAK (Australasia) PTY LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne', Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart, Perth, Toowoomba,
Townsville and Rockhampton.
KODAK NEW ZEALAND, DTD., Auckland, Dunedin, Wellington, Christchurch.
The Bulletin
(jHa&h MtituftoA* (Raojclaa^
Vol. 53.—N0. 2758.
Wednesday, December 21, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


GIVE BOOKS FOR XMAS.
for our 72-page Xmas Catalogue.
Sent, post free, anywhere.
DYMQCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
at HOME I
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College .**
100 Russell Street, Melbourne
Please send without obligation, y OU r New Free
booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit
advertised in the Sydney Bulletis, 1 *
My Name .
Mr A.Hress
S.B. 132
<k TOILET J
Has stood the test for over fifty
years and is today one of the
best known and largest selling
medicinal and toilet soaps on
the market. Made of the pur-
est materials, chosen for their
emollient and cleansing proper-
ties, Cuticura Soap is deli-
cately medicated, and perfumed
with natural flower odors.
Price Is.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE AGE”
Established 1851).
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
You do not leave it to chance in choosing a
newspaper for your advertising campaigns. You
require evidence of its stability and inquire
fully into its claims for preference before
entrusting it with your sales message,
bio discriminate buyer of newspaper space can
afford to overlook
“THE AGE”
when contemplating future allocations for
Victoria.
Make your first preference “THE AGE,” and
you will be convinced that .in choosing this
medium to broadcast your sales message
throughout the State your choice has been
fully justified,
“The Age” CIRCULATES in the
homes and offices of 115,000 sub-
scribers daily, and publishes over ONE
MILLION Advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office. 43 Hunter Street.
THE PATRIOT
"DIRECT medium t° WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINOHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
ONE
ADVERTISEMENT
BRINGS MANY
THOUSANDS
OF POUNDS.
A large contracting
firm, Hornibrook High-
way Ltd., advertised
their prospectus in all
Brisbane daily papers,
and called for capital.
The one advertisement
obtained magnificent
financial response
OVER 99 PER CENT.
OF WHICH WAS
THROUGH
The
Brisbane
Courier,
Member of Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
Representative:—
Robt. D. Fisher —85007,
74 Pitt St., Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
*’*■ should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander," 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian ami
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
XJ^cZiAjx/t^y Z7cLC4l* ,
Tl&twte j''sc>C&nce,
J?£&z£ S&xic4 r Staie
s’Sc\&&n. 7urCl4, rtr
€Ae vfrUstif 5%
TheAUSTRALASIAN
pH SALE ALL STATES
a market
for the manufacturer is presented in
a big centre. Thousands of poten-
tial customers gathered' together
on a fraction of land. Whole-
sale and retail distributors
centred in accessible points.
A concentrated market for luxuries
with a surrounding trade area in-
satiable in its demands. This market is
penetrated thoroughly and successfully by
'THE TELEGRAPH’’
’s Leading Home Newspaper.
The manufacturer is more
often wrong than right
when he says, “My busi-
ness is different.” Often
it is exactly that differ-
ence which is fairly
crying out for expres-
sion in print.
“Is that so with
you
so
y>
LEADS THE WAY
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
For Christmas Reading
From a big pile of books read during
the past month in the course ‘of duty, this
reviewer recently set aside four which he
would choose to take away on a Christmas
holiday for pleasure if he hadn’t already
exhausted their delights. The authors’
names are sufficient guarantee of their
literary merit. Each work is about the
best of its kind that is now being written.
In addition, they all make widely-different
appeals, and, though there is hardly a dull
line in any of them, they- are all highly
informative. Even the first, which only
aims on the surface at making, its readers
laugh.
Social Satire.
Stephen Leacock is probably - the Em-
pire’s most popular 'humorist. The hyper-
critical say he is vulgar—not coarse like
the Bible, but vulgar like a society talkie
—but then the same has been said of his
only rival, P. G. Wodehouse. Leacock
differs from Wodehouse inasmuch as he
has an infinitely wider range of ideas, and
he can make you think. His latest After-
noons in Utopia (The Bodley Head; 55.)
is crammed with deep stuff in the guise
of cheerful satire: Much of it is propa-
ganda against war and war-makers. The
dear old admiral who had boarded the
Sanctissima Trinidad in 1805, and had even
talked with the Duke (“ever so many
times, in fact more and more often as he
told you about it”), did very well out of
the war.
What with prize money accumulated for
years, and the lucky purchase of lands in
Portugal, and the pension of a grateful
■sovereign, the admiral was a wealthy man.
But that, of course, was always the- reward
of war, and the admiral took it all modestly
and with due humility.
The false sentiment of proselytising Com-
munists also annoys him. He comes back
over and over again to the victims of ata-
vism and insufficient education whom the
capitalistic system persists in miscalling
criminals; unfortunates who crack people
over the head because their forebears used
to, and who sometimes kill those whom
they crack owing to ignorance of mass,
momentum and inertia as compared with
kinetic energy. Here is a glimpse into the
mind of a disloyalist after the Great Mas-
sacre of Brotherly Love which started world
Communism:—
It may sound an odd thing, and I know
it is an illegal thing to write, but there was
a great deal in the old system of families
and living in families with only one wife,
and keeping track of which were your chil-
dren. No doubt I’m old-fashioned. I seem
to miss it, though I’ve never enjoyed it;
it often seems to me, in fact, as if I belonged
to a past age and not to this. To have a
home of one’s own and actually know it was
one’s own home, and to have a little boy,
a son of your own, and know he was your
own son—how wonderful it must have been!
You expect crystal-clear thinking from an
eminent economist, and you get it from
Leacock. He is phenomenal because he
’ blends his indisputable conclusions with the
inane irrelevancies of a Groucho Marx.
Drooping to Darkness
The Letters of D. 11. Lawrence (Heine-
mann; 215.) comes next on the list. The
book’s only weakness is that it contains
to pi any letters which might have been
left out. Not that any are, uninteresting in
themselves, but there are hundreds which
cast no new light on Lawrence’s nature,
and 852 pages of letters are a little too
much even when the writer is a genius.
These missives/ which begin in 1909 and
end in Vence, where Lawrence died two
years ago, are addressed to all kinds of
famous people—David Garnett, J. D. Beres-
ford, Katharine Mansfield, Middleton
Murry—and they reveal every facet of his
whimsical, passionate, derisive, self-satisfied,
childish, dauntless and lovable character.
You can sense his personal charm in nearly
all of thern, and for beauty and power the
best, can be compared with those of Keats.
As the years pass you watch his outlook
changing under the buffetings of poverty
and illness, till in the end he becomes
ahpost querulous, Aldous Huxley, who
loved him and was constantly with him
from 1926 till his death, talks in a superb
preface of the tragic way in which “the
splendid curve of the letters” droops to
darkness. Lawrence was one of those rare
souls with the courage to reveal themselves
on paper, and it is as the portrait of a man,
even more than for the quality of the
this book should live.
Under Charles I.
The principal
characters in Rose
Macaulay’s They
IF ere Defeated
(Collins; 7s. 6d.)
are Herrick, the
poet, whom we meet as a middle-aged
Devonshire parson, and his enchanting little
pupil July, who loved poetry and died for
a poet. Miss Macaulay has gone to
immense pains to reconstruct this inter-
esting period when England was in a state of
flux; when -the lax morals and plain speech'
of the Elizabethan era were yielding to
Puritan influences; when Catholicism was
a power at Court once more, but was hated
throughout the country; when the King
was taxing some of his warmest supporters
into discontent, and when the Civil War
was only a few years away. She has a
sure social sense. Isn’t this just the way a
Tudor-minded monarchist would have
thought at the time of the Grand Remon-
strance?
He had never quite got used to these
upstart Stuarts from Scotland, with their
strange tedious follies, strange lack of
charm and tact, their new-fangled Armin-
ianism, their exalting of the power of those
usually low-born arid always interfering per-
sons, bishops, their perpetual shortness of
money, and their coquetting with Spain, the
ancient foe.
Other writers of novels about the seven-
teenth century, and earlier, have made their
characters talk a jargon which is a blend
of modern and archaic English, and behave
with an altogether modern restraint. Miss
Macaulay has had the courage to be dif-
ferent. Parson Herrick loses his temper
during a sermon:—
“And you black Higgles at the back there,
pox take ye for the papistical outlandish
hypocrites y’are, sitting in church to save
a fining, and slinking home to tell your
Spanish beads safe and quiet. And all you
children giggling there, you little michers,
asking for a whipping and never getting
it, what d’ye say God and his blessed angels
think of ye, as they look down from Heaven
on your dirty little grinning faces?”
July’s father is a long way ahead of’his
time. Two or three centuries in some re-
spects—as w’hen he denounces fox-hunting
and jeers at those who say the fox enjoys
it. But usually the people in this fascinat-
ing story are of their age in outlook as
well as in speech. Read it if you want a
better notion of what Stuart England was
like than any history can supply.
1606-1932
Arthur Jose’s Australia (Harrap; 10s. 6d.)
is the fourth selection. 'He has traced the
history of the Commonwealth from its dis-
covery early in the seventeenth century by
the Dutch to the present day. Convictism,
squatterdom and the > demand for self-
government towards the end of the 1840’s,
with their joint and several effects on the
origin and segregation of the colonies,
and the struggle for unity at the end of
the nineteenth century, are handled with
sympathy, yet objectively. Part II deals
with sociology, and contains a chapter on
Literature and Art which is mostly devoted
to The Bulletin, and which makes the
common error of implying that J. F. Archi-
bald was the chief cause of the paper’s rise
to power and prestige. There is an extra-
ordinarily interesting chapter on Fauna and
Flora in Part III (Physiography), and this
section, like the others, is profusely illus-
trated. The book has two main points.
It compresses the material facts about Aus-
tralia into 300 pages, and, since the author
is an accomplished journalist with a dis-
like of redundancies and stilted language, it
is extremely easy to read. You may dispute
some of his conclusions, even, here and
there, some of his statements of fact, but
he has a judicial mind, and he is steeped in
his subject.
Red Page.
James Cook
“For our ships know th’ expressed minds of men.”
— Chapman.
James Cook, England’s greatest navigator,
was born at a village called Marton, in
Yorkshire : but, at the age of 13, . he came,
five miles from that place, into Staithes,-
a seaport town, where he found a job as
shop-boy with a grocer-draper named San-
derson. This grocer-draper, in addition to
selling candles and sugar and mercery, used
to drink a bit....also, he whipped young
Jim so lustily that the lad took French
leave of him and went away to sea. After
13 years, beginning as apprentice on a collier,
and thence passing into other Cook
grew to be mate of a vessel trading to
Norway: but, on declaration of war between
Great Britain and France, May 17, 1755,
he gave up his mercantile rank to enter
as common seaman aboard the Eagle, 60
guns, commanded by Captain John Hamer.
Then an amazing thing happened: within
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


A Prosperous New Year...
1933 is just around the corner, boldly advancing into a chaotic world. The New Year is
laden with a bountiful crop of new, richer hopes for those who will reap them and capitalise
on the brighter marketing conditions prophesised everywhere. The man on the land must
now think of his own future prosperity by equipping his property to ensure maximum
efficiency and economy in operation for yet another year.
“SEASON’S
GREETINGS”
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Ltd.,
take this opportunity of wishing
everyone everywhere the compli
ments of the season.
PROTECT YOUR PROPERTY
‘With bitter fmcti
n
A
SCIUJTCH
I I M
"IOWA"
kd
*X ■
m
t :
Jt
; /
Hi//*'
STATION SUPPLIES
STEEL FENCING WIRE—
Gauges 6 8
Approx, length per cwt., yards—
-390 560
Black, per ton .... £ 15/19/2 £l5/19/2
Black, per cwt 16/6 16/6
Galvanised, per ton £l7/9/2 £l7/9/2
Galvanised, per cwt 18/- 18/-
GALVANISED BARBED WIRE "IOWA” Pattern, Close
Set—
Gauges . 1 “
Approximate lengths, per cwt, yards: 460
Price, per ton £23/15/-
Prices, per cwt 24/6
12 AG. Special £24/15/-ton
14G. Special £26/7/6 ton
12G Barbed, coils 13/-
14G. Barbed, Jcwt. coils 14/-
GALVANISED STEEL FENCING STAPLES—
Inches— Ix 14 ix 14 fx 12 1x 10 11x9 11x8 2xB
Per cwt. .. 38/6 38/6 31/3 29/- 27/9 26/3 26/3
Per lb sd. sd. sd. 4d. 4d. 4d. 4d.
WIRE STRAINERS—
2in I ... 12/6 each "Suregrip” .. 17/6each
Walker’s . . 7d. ea., 5/9 doz. Pointer 5/6 each
DONALD’S 24/6 each
Extra Segments 2/9 each
Extra Jaws each
Extra Hammers 3/9 each
10
819
£l6/10/-
17/-
£lB
18/6
14
670
£25/5/-
26/-
25/6 cwt.
27/- cwt.
Best Patent Galvanised
WIRE NETTING
IN ROLLS CONTAINING 50 YARDS.
Quality Light Med. Light
Mesh iin. |-in. 1 in.
Gauge 22 20 20
Width, 1 2 inches.
Yard -/4 725
Roll 13/75 7/5
Width, 1 8 inches.
Yard -/SI 735
Roll 19/8 10/75
Width, 24 inches.
Yard -/7 -/5 -/4
Roll 25/6 17/11 13/6
Width, 30 inches.
Yard -/8g -/6 -/5
Roll 31/15 21/11 16/5
Width, 36 inches.
Yard -/10 -/7 -/6
Roll 37/4 25/7| 19/3
Width, 48 inches.
Yard 1/1 /9i 775
Roll 49/9 34/15 25/75
Width, 60 inches.
Yard
Roll
Width, 72 inches.
Yard
Roll '
“Patent Scratch”
Barbed Wire
Saves at least 20 p.c. on wire,
and about 40 p.c. on freight and
team charges.
It is made of High Quality Steel,
has short, sharp, and strong
barbs, and takes an equal strain
on both wires.
lcwt. of 14-gauge “Patent Scrutch” measuring about B>l 0 yards.
lcwt. of 12|-gauge “Patent Scrutch” measuring about 610 yards.
lcwt. of 12-gauge “Ordinary” Barb measuring about 450 yards
1 mile 14-gauge “Patent Scrutch” weighing approximately 2cwf. Uqr. I Vlb.
1 mile 1 “Patent' Scrutch” weighing approximately 2cwt. Jqr. 151 b.
1 mile 12-gauge “Ordinary” weighing approximately 3cwt. 3qr. 181 b.
1 ton 14-gauge “Patent Scrutch” measuring about 9 miles 360 yards.
1 ton “Patent Scrutch” measuring about 6 miles 1640 yards.
1 ton 12-gauge “Ordinary” only measuring about 5 miles 200 yards.
21 gaugl "Patent Scratch" *25/15/- Per '
1 4-gauge "Patent Scrutch” £27/7/6 per ton; 28/- per «wk
('
A PLOUGH—A profitable New Year Investment
John Deere’s Red Jacket Ploughs—
Cut 9in. 10in. r2in.
Weight 891 b. 941 b. 1081 b.
Price £B/17/6 £9/15/6 £lO/10/6
Single Standard Land Wheels 12/6 extra. Knife
Coulter 10/6. Disc Coulter 30/-.
All Steel Construction.
Beam of special steel, high curve, giving good
clearance.
Mouldboard of genuine hardened soft-centre steel.
Shares crucible steel.
Body, heavy one-piece steel frame, steel handles.
John Deere New Bantam Plough. A strong, light all-steel one-horse Plough, designed for use in mixed lands.
Size, 7in.; weight, 641 b. Price . .
Size, 9in.; weight, 841 b. Price
Coulter and Wheels extra as for “Red Jacket” Ploughs.
£4/
FREIGHT NOT
PAID ON THESE GOODS.
Anthony
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—
An unfailing principle,
year in year out.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Phone: M 2401, Day or Night.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.
e
DEFY BUSHFIRE
MENACE
| REG A |J
KNAPSACK
C
REGA” UNDER-ARM SPRAYER
For Bush-fire Menace.
Price, unit complete .... 457-
Tank separate .. , 25/6
Spray under-arm separate 19/6
“Rega” Under-arm
Sprayer.
The “Rega” Knapsack Four Gallon
Container, made of Galvanised Iron,
supplied complete. ,
In the case of grass fires they are
invaluable, jetting the water on to
the fire under high pressure, and at
the same time giving the maximum
spread—a combination of efficiency
in firefighting whether dealing with
a haystack, house, wheat crop,
pasture or scrub. Economical in
the use of water, and may be
brought into immediate service.
FORCE PUMP
Myers Cog New Gear
Force Pump is used to
force water into over-
head tanks, etc. Is
fitted with 3 x 4% inch
brass - lined cylinder,
brass - covered piston
rod. Can be operated
against 751 b. pressure
if desired. Takes 1
pipe (211/484).
Price £5/12/6
è
é
STEEL SCRAPER
“Columbus” Solid Steel Scraper.
Improved by the Scraper being
made longer and deeper than
usual, so while it carries more
earth it runs much easier, and
has more wearing surface.
Cubic Net
Feet. Weight. * Price.
3 801 b. 70/-
5 971 b. 71/6
7 1051 b. 79/6
No. 3
No. 2
No. 1


To
all those who feel
n u |
Tired
r
i
ri*=
%
A
o
S 3
~iz&
v^S.
Start
taking
SANATOOEN
NOW!
VOU need extra energy. To pull through
you must keep up your health and vigour.
You must shake off that feeling of irritability
and fatigue. And that is exactly what
Sanatogen will do for you.
Sanatogen will make you healthy and
vigorous again, it will give you a
reserve of nerve-strength and enable
you to work harder and more efficiently.
Sanatogen will keep you fit and fresh
all day and every day.
Strengthen your nerves with Sanatogen
“Can you trust Sanatogen, can you really rely
upon it ? ” Yes, with complete confidence!
And its action is as simple as it is essential;
for Sanatogen feeds your nerves with exact-
ly those elements—phosphorus and albumin
on which their health depends. It is a nerve-
food and therefore must do good. Physicians
all over the world recognise this, and that
is why that trustworthy medical journal
“ The Lancet ” wrote:
"There is abundant evidence
of the value of Sanatogen as a
restorative"
Why not give Sanatogen a thorough
trial? Go to your chemist to-day. You
will be surprised how much better
and stronger you will feel in only a
few days time.
1
Li
SANATOGEN is sold at all Chemists.
Made by Genatosan Ltd., Loughborough,
England.


AN!
KILL THIS
ALFRED J. BRITON,
Australasia’s Leading Physical Director.
Founder of “Health & Physical Culture” Magazine.
Send for my new illustrated book —
chockful of pictures—it’s FREE!
“Secrets of Muscular
Strength”
I don’t ask you one penny for this great book,
the book that has changed the lives of hundreds
of fellows. It’s the finest piece of reading you
ever set eyes on. I swear you’ll never blink
an eyelash until you turn the last page. Its
crammed full of pictures of athletes who have
taken the course, pictures of myself; it 11 put
that much kick into you you’ll feel like a mule
—if it doesn’t you’d better roll over—you re
dead. Come on, then, take out the old pen
or pencil and sign your name and address on
the coupon. But get to it. Do it NOW. To-
morrow you may forget. Remember, its some-
thing for nothing, and no strings attached, no
obligation. Grab it!
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept, l,
107 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
'THERE’S a devil inside of you. He’s try-
-1 ing to kill you. Eook out for him!
He tells you not to work so hard. What’s
the use? The boss only piles more work
on you. He tells you not to bother with
your body. Do you recognise him? Of
course, you do. He’s in us all.. He’s a
murderer of ambition. He’s a liar and a
fool. KIEE HIM! If yon don’t he will
kill you!
SAVED!
THANK your lucky stars you have another
man inside of you. He’s the human
dynamo. He fills you full of kick and ambition.
He keeps you alive —on fire. He urges you on
in your daily tasks. He makes you strive for
bigger and better things to do. He makes you
crave for life and strength. He teaches you
that the weak fall by the wayside, but the
STRONG SUCCEED. He shows you that exercise
builds live tissue —live tissue is muscle —muscle
means strength—strength is power. Power
brings success! That’s what you want, and,
gosh darn your old hide, you’re going to get it!
WHICH MAN WILL IT BE?
IT’S up to you. Set your own future. You
1 want to be the Human Dynamo? Fine!
Well, let’s get busy. That’s where I come m.
That’s mv job. Here’s what I’ll do for you:
In just 30 days I’ll increase your arm one
full inch with real, live, animated muscle. Yes,
and I’ll add two inches to your chest m the
same time. Pretty good, eh? That’s nothing.
Now come the works. I’ll build up yom
shoulders. I’ll deepen your chest. 111 strengthen
your whole body. I’ll give you arms and legs
like pillars. I’ll literally pack muscle up your
stomach and down your back. Meanwhile 111
work on those inner muscles surrounding your
vital organs. You’ll feel the thrill , I^< r
shooting up vour old backbone and throughout
your entire system. You’ll feel so full of life
you’ll shout to the world, “I’m. a man and 1
can prove it.” Sounds good, what ? But, listen.
That isn’t all. I’m not just promising these
things. I guarantee them! It’s a sure bet.
TO EVERY MAN—IT’S FREE
T HAVE made the greatest and most amazing
1 discoveries about muscle-building that YOU
eve~ heard of. I have learned that STRENGTH
and sex are connected! This story is in a
brand-new book full of pictures—and for a little
while you can have that book FREE! If you
want the body and strength of an athlete—
and I know you do —shoot that coupon along
NOW * If you want to load your frame with
roll upon roll of smooth, easy-moving, rippling
muscles—mail the coupon NOW ! If you want
the speedy strength and lightning agility, the
quick-moving grace and crushing power of a
’Piger print your name on that coupon before
you are three minutes older.
RIP THIS OUT AND MAIL NOW!
ALFRED J. BRITON; Dept. L, 107 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear sir,-Please send me, absolutely FREE a copy of your latest book,
“The Secrets of Muscular Strength And How to Acquire It. ot s
one penny, it’s FREE.
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
B. 21/12/’32.
ê
12 months of his enlistment, the A.B. was
appointed master of the Mercuiy, and sent
with Sir Charles Saunders’s fleet to Quebec,
where it became his business to take sound-
ings in the channel of the St. Lawrence.
He did this at night-time, under the bat-
tery of the French camp, and surrounded by
Indians; but he cared nothing for either ol
these, counting himself lucky to be out of
the reach of grocer-draper Sanderson. In-
deed, upon one occasion he was so absorbed
with’ figures and notes that he stepped
ashore off the bow of his pinnace only after
the savages had entered it over the stern.
However, he got away; and, according to
Kippis, he furnished the Admiral “with as
correct and complete a draught of the
channel as could have been made aftei our
countrymen were in possession of Quebec.
From the Mercury Cook was transferred
to the Northumberland, a first-rate man-o’-
war. In 1762 he returned to England, and
married Elizabeth Batts.
Thereafter followed the voyages, full of.
scientific interest and adventure; reach-
ing down to the time of his murder on
Owhyhee beach, where
... .be had dropped; and the old floundering sea,
The old fumbling, witless lover-enemy
Had taken his breath: last office of salt water.
Detractors of Cook inveigh against his
absolutism, which they attribute to coldness
of heart. Here, in rebuttal, let it be said
he was a man who, having work to do,
could not suffer idle people. That he was
unselfish is proved, at least by a single in-
stance, when it became his opportunity to
be the first Englishman to set foot upon
Australian soil. In his barge the sailors
had stopped rowing and waited for their
CAPTAIN JAMES COOK.
captain to disembark; but now, against
every expectation, that officer helped a mid-,
shipman up to the gunnel, and, exclaiming
“Once! twice!! thrice!!! and' away!!!!”
urged the youngster overboard; himself
slowly following after; satisfied to be
second. A more comfortable passage than
that of Caesar, at Adrumetum, who, when
he tumbled on his nose, shouted out “Teneo
te Africa” although, considering the cir-
cumstances, he might have said worse.
While I think about Cook, I have beside
me a flat block of wood (three inches square
and one inch deep), roughly cut, with a
catch-knob in the middle of its upper sur-
face," a block of wood which the navigator
once held in his hand and counted worth
giving to a friend. Underneath the block
is gummed a piece of paper covered with
words in my grandmother’s writing:—
This letter-weight was made out of one of the
timbers of the Endeavour by the ship’s carpenter
as a souvenir from Captain Cook to. his friend
Captain Blair, R.N., and is weighted, with some of
the ship’s lead. It was given to me by Captain
Blair’s nephew, 1834. . ...
Cook first sighted Botany Bay in the good ship
Endeavour 28th April, 1770.
Here my father has subscribed: —
Given to me by my mother, in whose hand this
is written.- —George Gordon McCrae.
For a farewell, I shall add the story (con-
tained in a letter) of how Blair's nephew,
presenting the weight, and emphasising the
origin of its wood, said, “Take this, to show
you the way to Australia.... It has been
there before.”
He spoke truth; and, gratefully, I intend
carrying my bit of the Endeavour to our
Mitchell Library, where, perchance, it may
recognise an old companion in Cook’s Bible
(Ed. Basket, 1765), the one James used on
Sunday mornings, when he read service to
the crew.
HUGH McCRAE.
Material Problems and Christian
Ethics
It sometimes happens that the violent
prejudice of one type against another to
which Robert Lynd bears witness in “Rain,
Rain, Go to Spain” (Red Page 23/11/’32),
leads a man into a slightly unreasonable
position. Many foolish things have been
said and done in the name of the
Christian religion. As a result certain
people develop a complex against the
essential and fundamental truths which may
be discerned through the heaviest mask of
eccentricity. The churchman who attacks
all gambling, from the smallest flutter up-
wards, goes only a little further than The
Bulletin, which sees the N.S ; W. State
Lottery as a social and economic evil.
I am not qualified to express an authori-
tative opinion upon the theory held by the
“new economists,” and expounded by
“M.G.S.” (23/11/’32), as a means to pre-
vent war. But even though “M.G.S.”
cannot, or will not, see it, practically all of
our trouble is due to selfishness. The foolish-
ness of pride (personal and national), envy,
hatred, malice and all uncharitableness
springs from this primary fact.
The world reeks with selfishness, plus a
goodly amount of blind foolishness. The
“parsonical plea for a general change of
heart” is very far from being “a funk reflex.”
No person in his sane senses could call
Jesus of Nazareth a coward. Nor was He
ignorant of the needs and deficiencies of
our human nature. One of the essentials
of life and conduct that He stressed was —■
and is still—the need for personal regener-
ation and all that that implies. It seems
to me that the idealist who pleads with the
parson is the essential realist.
This extract from a leading article in
the London “Times” sums up my feelings:
The most sagacious financiers now admit readily
that the monetary and economic perplexities of
our time, affairs which at first sight might appear
to be wholly material, are linked intimately with
spiritual factors. To think concurrently of repara-
tions and repentance, the cancellation of debts and
the conversion of souls, the influence of duties and
the duties of influence, is not to juggle with words,
but to conjoin ideas that stand in vital relationship.
There can be no escape from our financial difficulties
without a spiritual revival, without a renewal of
faith, hope and 10ve.... The secret of prosperity
is confidence, and human confidence, in the long
run, is impossible without divine faith.
Frankly, what would you think of the
physician who persistently treated secondary
symptoms and ignored the primary cause?
Yes, he would be! And so long as we shirk
the job of training the individual to live
fairly a.nd deal honestly, aren’t we all?
THE HATTER.
A Satchel of Books
The 1932 K.Z. Artists’ Annual (New
Century Press, Wellington; Is.) is a credit
to its country of origin. There are 84 pages
and perhaps twice as many illustrated jokes,
and a number of good yarns.
Frank .Johnson is the publisher of Funny
Farmyard, an all-Australian picture hook.
The drawings by Syd Miller are immeasur-
ably better and funnier than those of most
imported productions of the sort, and the
verses are worthy of the drawings. An ideal
Christmas present, inasmuch as the grown-
ups of the family can get plenty of laughs
from it before the child to whom it is
presented destroys it.
W. and R. Chambers are famed for their
children’s books and they have turned out
the usual admirable batch in time for
Christmas. Janie of La Rochelle, by Elinor
M. Brent-Dyer; Keep Smiling, a yarn for
boys by D. Stapleton; Jill’s Curmudgeon
(for girls), by Anne Macddnald; and Blak-
cney of the 'Slashers (for warlike boys),
by Escott Lynn, are all excellent of their
kind. The London price is 3s. Gd.
Feathered Favorites, by L. A. Redgrave
( Syd Smith ; 25.). is the best-seller it de-
serves to be. The first edition of 1000
copies was snapped up in a couple of weeks.
In addition to being delightful reading it is
a complete guide-book to the commoner
Australian birds. Each set of verses is
accompanied by a colored picture of the
bird whose habits are celebrated,. and on
the opposite page there is a description of
him with his scientific and colloquial names.
No bird-loving family should be without it.
The Aria kids have emerged from the
“Woman’s Mirror” and got between the
covers of an ornate bpok published at Is. by
The Bulletin. They are amusing little
cusses, who look like human beings and talk
like Australians, which some of these comedy
kids don’t. There are laughs for grown-ups,
however highbrow, in many of their artless
efforts. Take the case of the small scholar
who on being asked what happened in 172 S
says Captain Cook was born in that .year.
Gravelled as to what happened in 1770, lie
does a quick sum in mental arithmetic and
produces an indisputably correct answer:
“Captain Cook was 42.” Humor apart, the
drawings are admirable as black-and-white
work.
The theme of Philip Lindsay’s One Dagger
for Two (Cassell; 7s. 6d.) is the last six
months of Christopher Marlowe’s stormy life.
It opens with the poet seeing 1592 out from
his lodgings in Pudding Lane, and ends with
his death at Deptford on the eve of his mar-
riage. In between he drinks, games, brawls,
makes love to his patron’s wife, Awdry
Walsingham and writes for her “Come, Live
with Me and Be My Love.” Mr. Lindsay
(who is Norman Lindsay’s youngest son) has
a fine sense of character and of the period,
and he can tell a story. He brings the
squalid, noisy London of Shakspeare’s day
—the London in the vicinity of the Fleet
and Eastcheap—to life with astonishing
success; and his modernised dialogue gets
just the effect he wants. Why can’t young
Australians write as well as this about
Australia?
The Temple of Sdhr is an Australian thriller
by William Pengreep (Lothian; 7s. 6d.).
Professor Gregory Lemiere. “inventor of
the celebrated Lemiere Ray, is the villain.
He gets Dorothy Treloare into his power
while her father Dr. Treloare, her admirer
Brian Dare and others are investigating a
certain Treasure Lake in the desert heart of
unexplored Australia. Brian tries to rescue
her. In vain. He is overpowered by natives
in the service of the professor, and thrown
into an underground cell. Lemiere usually
occupies “the Sacred Room of SShr,”
together with “a huge bronze figure of a
massive grinning head set upon broad
shoulders —the God Sahr.” The objective of
the explorers is the incalculably valuable
Golden Rope of Sahr, and they duly get
away with it after losing the heroic Arthur
Wilding. Lemiere, as always happens in
the case of these unscrupulous scientists, is
eventually defeated by the forces of honesty.
A' good yarn of its kind, but one can’t see
any of the events happening in Australia.
Answers to Correspondents.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions, voluntarily submitted,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
M.D.: It rhymes, that’s a 11... .G.C.A.:
We stumbled at “dawn-morn,” and “do-hue” got
us down M.H.: No warmth in your flash of in-
spiration. Josephine M.: You have a singing
pen, and we expect you to do better... .C.E.8.:
Too slight.. .F.L.T.: They never issue a poet’s license
for such lazy stuff as that... .A.G.P.: Can’t get the
rhythm of the one; and there’s nothing in the other.
But we’d be sorry to lose sight of you. .. .Clytie:
Flops in the second F.W.H.: What, another
break-o’-day poem !... .F.W.8.: Too telegraphic....
C.R.R.: Put it in 300 words—it can be done easily.
....Ross G.: Lymphatic... .C.McA.: “Lone” nearly
won you your license. But watch your workman-
ship N.A.: Too much like the schoolmaster
John S.: Safely basketed R.McG.: No ; but worth
trying again... .Nighbeer: Quiterubbish... .R.E.8.:
Also ran... .M.N.E.: A clatter of words Douglas
A. S.: You’ve got the feeling. But don’t use “in
the heart of me,” “in the soul of me” ‘and such-
like—they’re just lazy A. de R.: Prose with an
occasional touch of poetry... .W.A.E.: Seascape a
bit too watery; and why be so sparing of rhymes?
.... G.W.H.: Third verse:—
Dearest, I will never know
Why from all that vast collection
Of fellows, you should like me so,
And covet my entire affection.
Judging by the fourth verse, the lady couldn’t ha’
told you, neither L. J.R.: Too declamatory; and
tlie tongue stumbles on some of the lines. .. .J.R.C.:
Msjny awkward phrases and none that are arresting.
But there’s a gleam of promise in “Winter Day.”
H.G.S.: Don’t think of it; the field is over-
crowded with far more experienced men... .F.R.E.C.:
It hisses like a serpent... .G.F.W.: A spree with
all the springs broken.... J.A.A.: Sorry, quite hope-
less L.H.McD. : No; but there’s a slight taste of
that rare thing humor in it.... J.A.: “Poor Devil”
devilish poor.. ..N. de M.; We might as well try
to polish a Bath brick Ancient M.: A hellish
thing C.A.S.: Why not furbish it up into a
ballade? Heresone: Too much like a hymn
Tanta-Tyga: One’s a very mouldy chestnut and
the other is an outright calamity F.S.: The
refrain of your hymn of hate deserves an inch:—
She’s a cat, she’s a cat;
I’d have him remember that. ;
I’m not a jealous woman, but I hate her, and that s
hat
She’s a’ rowdy little, dowdy little, flashy little,
trashy little, drinking, swearing, gossip-bearing,
horrid little cat.
....Angus 0.: A limping prad that Pegasus of
yours C.E.H.: Bob Oraig, the “Surrey poet,”
used to make a living selling his verses at the Oval.
But none of it was quite as bad as yours....R.
McD.; Just a string of mournful, halting common-
places G.S.: Unmusical maundering J.W.W.:
Try it on Amy.... Lignum: There’s a glimmer of
feeling, but your turgid lines make hard reading....
Thomas Ti-Tree: You’ve borrowed the theme from
Kendall and made rather heavy going of it. Even
in your kookaburra’s “raucous rapture” there’s a
hint of Browning. .. .R.H.M.; She seems a nice
girl, but you fail to show anything distinctive about
her.’...Hesperian: Feebly-expressed truisms T.P.:
Quite agree that you are no high-stepper... .W.J.H.:
Makings of a fair English magazine story in it
L.S.K.: Some good satirical stuff, but it ends dis-
appointingly. .. . D.G.: A poor brand of humor....
B. Commonplace incident baldly described
W.G.M.: Tinker’s achievements are not worth all
that space E.J.: That trick ending has lost its
novelty... .V.J.M.: Unconvincing... .G. 0.: No pen
here for Old Rusty E.M.D.: Doubt if you laughed
at it yourself... H.C.W.: That’s not how short stories
are made R.D.H.: Has all the faults of the first
attempt W.H.S.: You just ramble on R. 8.:
Not hungry for more... .F.C.C.: Tale about the
heathen in his blindness is du11... .0.L.: Cannot
believe it all happened... .W.G.R.: Only a simpleton
would be bluffed by that trick.. . .H.J.L.: Ringing-
in of babies has gone out of fashion in fiction....
H.G.: Amusing, but publication of sequels to other
fellows’ stories is against the rules... .J.C.: A
farthing an inch would be too much for it....
C. : You went well till you reached the last
lap E.F.: Amateurish... .L.S.: Mixture of blood
and thunder and sentimentalism declined... .A.F.:
Nearer the mark than most J.D.: Ham-and-beef
man’s romance made dreary reading... .A.M.: Little
in it P.1.F.; What a wordy gentleman you are!
G. V.: It takes too long to reach the climax
C. 8.: Painstaking, but you fail to “recapture his
fine careless rapture”... .F.W.: Opens promisingly
enough: —
Now, comrade, tell me truly
Have you kissed a sweet, .unruly,
Tempting, buxom, wide-eyed, hotlipped, sportive
girt ?
After that you naturally ran short of adjectives....
Mivens D.: You have a certain i mrfulnoss, but you
don’t say anything to stir or m-k .... J.W.H.: So
that’s your idea of pastoral fdioi.v: —
We will wait here till the sun goes down,
Till the rasping cricket starts h.s chant
And the owlets mourn in the mystic light.
Then we’ll farewell each small sleeping plant
And through the silken air of night
Return to the gloomy town.
....D.A.: Sorry we can’t come yo-yo ing with you.
. ...L.A.: Smart, but the theme grows rather thread-
bare Yelhsa: A bit too labored an.l over-packed
with classical allusions W.M.L.: Hackneyed....
E.R.M.: Not in our line A.G.: No bouquets for
elderly spinster... .W.S.: They don’t behave like real
pe0p1e....E.R.E.: Butcher yarn spoilt by conven-
tional ending.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.A.8. ; Stop dipping a haircomb in ink and
running it over drawing-paper!... .S.S.: Keep on
with your lessons... .1.M.M.8.: Might suit some
other paper... .R.M.A.; “Am I on the road to
success?” N 0... .G.T.T.: Dreadful L.P.W.: Shows
slight improvement... .N.Y.: Abo. would pass
for a pigmy chief.... L.H.: What the boatswain said
to the cook won’t bear printing J.K.: Labored
and untidy L.M.: What has the old chap done
to deserve two right hands? W.M.: A long way
after Phil May J.C.C.: Take more care
SP.L.: Drawing awful; joke as appropriate as a
hiccough at a prohibition meeting.


m
mk
in
Wm
I i]
i.
■
m
SHMsa
n
■ ;
>ki:
. ,
Hi I
m i
mm
: % ■
rt
m m
s= »
/>■:
H
Hi Sr' - 111®*
I
>V J
1
m
w.
wm
I H
i
M
1
liii
B
p
r j
mm
4
:
mj . JKt WI
mmm, WL
mm %
m .
—BBI
K
IB
:
BB
*. v J
mm
■1
in
: ■:
m
■
■ ■
:
m
-
BB
W
: . '
1
:
■
IS
■
fuss**
. ■ V
m
-
i
1
■ m
j* - •%
•% i
L *
Mb/ I
m m
■s
ll«|
' -• ' ,
:
<7


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2758.
December 21, 1932.
THE CHRISTMAS PUDDING.
UNCLE SAMs “See here. you guys—-if there’s any money in that puddin’ it belongs to me.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address .in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12c, 6d.;
I months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
< months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months. Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for hoz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
WHERE DO OUR WAGES
COME FROM?
At Broken Hill a few days ago owners and
workmen met to discuss conditions under
which the silver-lead-zinc industry would
be carried on. There had been an agree-
ment between the parties, but it had come
to an end when the new State basic wage
was fixed. The owners offered the old
7s. 6d. a week on to the new basic wage;
but the men, afraid of a further reduction
of the. cost of living and therefore of this
wage, sought a long agreement at a fixed
minimum, with a bonus when the lead
market passes a certain figure. The owners
accepted the terms, so that £4 4s. is the
“irreducible minimum” in this industiy for
three years. But what the agreement really
means is that if the metal markets should
make it impossible for the cos. to carry on,
they are pledged not to ask the men to
accept a reduction of wages, but can only
hand them the sack.
This so-called basic wage of ours has
been responsible for some very absurd ideas
about wages. Tribunals have spent months
in finding out, not what it was possible
for an industry to pay, but what it would
cost a workman and his family to live; and
the basic wage has been fixed not on the
man’s earnings but on his supposed necessi-
ties. But a man’s necessities have nothing
whatever to do with what the industry
which employs him can afford to pay him.
A farmer needs many things; but whether
he can get them or not depends entirely
upon the value of the things his farm pro-
duces. A miner is in exactly the same posi-
tion; he cannot buy more than his claim
yields. And what is true of one miner is
true of a thousand or ten thousand. They
cannot have more than the mine yields.
No doubt they can sometimes be carried
on for a while. The farmer who has had
a Lxt put by against a drought, or to meet
sickness or other misfortune, can call on
the reserve, and thus buy jam when the
current production of his farm would not
run to more than dry bread. Likewise,
a mining co. may carry its employees on
for a while even though operations are
not paying. But at the best this must be
temporary: it must stop as soon as the
co.’s stocking is emptied. That stocking
may guarantee an “irreducible minimum-
wage” as long as it lasts. The moment it
runs out, the workman can get only what he
produces, whether it is more than he needs
or only half as much. There can be no
such thing as an irreducible minimum-wage
in a productive industry, just as there
ought to be no immovable maximum.
No doubt most of these big cos. have
reserves; and it may be on these that the
miners’ leaders have their eyes. But they
cannot eat up these reserves without run-
ning the risk of doing a great injury to
the workers. The idea that reserves are
large sums of money put aside for subse-
quent division among the shareholders is
grotesquely wrong. For the most part,
whether they belong to a mining or any
other sort of co., they are not in money at
all, but in plant or other fixed assets. The
greatest of the Broken Hill cos., the North,
has reserves of one kind and another totalling
£2,137,000. But £1,580,000 of these “reserves”
is in its own plant, in the Associated Smel-
ters_ at Pt. Pirie, and in the Central power
station at Broken Hill; of the balance, not
more than £285,000 is in bank deposits or
in Government stock. Even this compara-
tively small amount—the co.’s one asset
which might be cut up among the workers
—could only be used at the risk of com-
pelling the co. at some future time to do
without a necessary work, it might be for
the reduction of costs so that operations
could be continued in a low metal market,
it, might even be to secure the safety of the
workers.
It is doubtful whether the workers, as
a body, have ever realised what these
reserves mean to themselves: on the con-
trary, they seem always to have viewed
them enviously, and have had no compunc-
tion about biting into them—have, indeed,
often x-egarded them as money which has
been withheld from the workers. Actually,
these reserves are funds put by—and
generally “invested in the business,” as
it is called—for the purpose of reducing
costs and making the industry and the em-
ployment of its employees more secure. An
inquiry made last year by the International
Labor Office at Geneva threw some inter-
esting light on this subject. The Labor
Office, a department of the League of
Nations, investigated wages and costs of
living in various European countries in com-
parison with those at Detroit, in the U.S.A.
The l’eport showed that the American wages
“have afforded a much higher standard of
living than wages paid for work of similar
character in Eui’ope, and that the explana-
■ tion of the difference is a larger capital
investment in equipment and superior
organisation.” It showed that “the workmen
of Detroit have higher money wages, buy
a higher class of goods and have their
homes moi’e completely furnished”—and
all because the Americans put by larger
reserves for the replacement of old or obso-
lete machinery, and had thus been able to
take advantage of every discovery or de-
velopment in engineering and chemistry.
Industry can, then, pay the employee
more than he earns only by drawing upon
the reserves of the employer; and the re-
serves of the employer can only be drawn
upon at the cost of the worker.
THE YEAH IN RUSSIA.
The world is getting a saner view of
Russia as Russia is getting a saner view
of its own great experiment. At the outset
the Soviets were handicapped by not know-
ing exactly what it was they were aiming
at. There was no accepted definition of
Communism: the one thing they all knew
was that they were a revolutionary min-
ority and must proceed in the only way
open to revolutionary minorities—by ruth-
lessly suppressing opposition. The Com-
munists of Europe always have been
divided into many groups, and the Soviets
ha,d to make a policy as they went along.
They are still making it.
The first Five-year Plan was a frank
recognition of the importance of capital.
Russia was so backward and poverty-
stricken, not because it had been exploited,
not because it had been a victim of the
capitalist system, but because the capitalist
system had never invaded the country. The
Soviet leaders proceeded to bring salva-
tion, not by tearing. up the capitalist sys-
tem by the roots, but by making the
greatest effort in history to build up a
vast capital fund, so that the country might
be supplied with modern railways, machinery
and other technical equipment. And they
proceeded to build up this capital fund by
the only known method—by putting aside
part of current production.
To drive home the truth that this is the
only way has been one of the hardest tasks
of the Soviet leaders. For here they found
themselves compelled to break down one
of the pet slogans of the theoretical Com-
munists: in Lassalle’s phrase, “The whole
produce of labor belongs to the worker.”
Molotov, President of the Council of the
People’s Commissaries, declared early this
year that everything depended upon the
complete overthrow of this principle. “It
is,” he said, “unrealisable and manifestly
erroneous. The narrow-minded consumer’s
attitude is not in accord with the needs
of the Socialist State or with Leninism.”
The development of this idea is the most
important thing which has occurred in
Russia since “the rule of the. proletariat”
was established. It means the Soviets’
recognition that Russia’s first need is the
accumulation of capital, and that, in the
words of another of the leaders, “the accu-
mulation of capital will favor increasingly
the workers.”
Out of this developed another quite revo-
lutionary rule—payment according to re-
sults produced or work done. Along with
the slogan that the whole product belonged
to the worker went another that all labor
should be paid alike. Stalin himself has
devoted special attention to this difficulty,
which has been all the more stubborn be-
cause it has had the backing of the Left
wing of the party. “What,” he asked, “is
the cause of the fluctuations in the labor
supply? I answer, the wrong conceptions
current as to wages, the uniformisation of
wages favored by the Left. A number
of factories have fixed the wages in such a
manner that the difference between skilled
and unskilled labor and between light and
heavy work disappears. This uniformisa-
tion must cease, and this system of paying
equal wages must be destroyed.”
But while great changes have developed
along these lines, there is still no sign of
any movement for the employment of pri-
vate capital in industry. The Soviets have
gone no further than to reward very liber-
ally those who put forward special exer-
tions to increase the store of socialised
capital. They are expected to spend this
money, not to save it. Only the future
can decide whether such a practice can last,
But whether it lasts or not these three facts
have been established by experience: (1)
that it is necessary to put aside what under
our system are called profits; (2) that
labor gains by this setting-aside process;
and (3) that progress even under Commun-
ism demands that payments shall be made
according to performances.
CREDIT AND CHEESE.
What is this thing called credit which so
many people talk about these days? J.
T. Lang fills large sections of most of his
speeches with vague references to it; his
idea seems to be that it is something
created by the community, but seized by
the banks and others and wrongfully used
by them for private money-making pur-
poses. “Prosperity will come, and it will
only come,” he said the other night, “when
a Labor Government is in power arid has
taken the control of the public credit out
of the hands of private finance, and placed
it under the control and at the service of
the people who own it.”
Now, it is quite true that there is a
public credit. But nobody has taken it
away from the' public. It still is under the
control and at the service of the people
who own it. At the very moment when
Mr. Lang was talking his usual nonsense,
the Prime Minister of the country was re-
porting the result of an effort to raise
another eight millions on the strength of
that credit; and it had not been much of
a success, because those with means at
their command realised that already the
public credit had been pledged for about
£1,200,000,000, that Mr. Lang had deliber-
ately refused to pay interest on some of this
debt and that there still were people who
said Mr. Lang was right and were prepared
to put him back in power where he might
repudiate the debt again. Everyone knows
what private credit is: it is the trust re-
posed in a man which enables him to get
things before he pays for them. If a
man has credit, he can obtain money or
money’s worth in the shape of goods from
the butcher or the baker or the banker.
Public credit is the trust reposed in a
community which enables it to get money
or money’s worth from butchers or bakers
or bankers. There is no difference between
the two credits; the very same qualities
which produce the one produce the other,
and the one can be lost in exactly the
same way as the other. The credit which
a community enjoys if enjoys because it
is believed that it has or will have the
means to satisfy its debts, and will tax
itself in order to pay them. The credit
which a man enjoys he enjoys because it is
believed that he has or will have the
means to satisfy his debts, and will tax
himself in order to pay them. His credit
is a thing which belongs to himself: it is
a personal possession, part of his goodwill;
it is founded in his character. The man
next door has no more right to it than he
has to his neighbor’s furniture or his clothes.
Indeed, the man next door might for a
few pounds buy his. neighbor’s furniture or
clothes, but he could not acquire his neigh-
bor’s credit though he had all the money
in the world, because a man’s credit is his
character.
But Mr. Lang and those who talk as he
does about credit will say that they are
not thinking about the individual: their
minds are upon the “great financial institu-
tions.” And they will probably go on to
say that, on the word of no less an autho-
rity than a former Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, Reginald McKenna, banks can and
do create money. What right, they ask,
have banks to create money? What right
have private people to make profits out of
what, only the public should be entitled to
create? But let them see what McKenna
calls money. It is not sovereigns or notes.
He says:—•
The banks....can create or destroy money. We
are in the habit of thinking of money as wealth, as
indeed it is in the hands of the individual who
owns it—wealth in the most liquid form—and we
do not like to hear that some private institution
can create it at pleasure. It conjures up a
picture of an autocratic and irresponsible body
which by some black art of its own contriving can
increase or diminish wealth, and presumably make
a great deal of profit in the process. But I need
hardly say nothing of the sort happens, A bank
loan creates a deposit and therefore it creates money.
But the deposit is a liability of the bank against
which a debt is due to it, and the bank merely
stands as an intermediary between the depositor
and the borrower. All that is done by fhe banks
when they create money is to increase the amount
of debts due to and from themselves.
In short, the grocer at the corner store who
gives a customer credit for a pound of
cheese creates cheese just as the bank
creates money. The bank makes a loan to
a man; that is to say, it backs that man
to repay the debt. It may use another per-
son’s deposit to provide the. money; if
the borrower does not pay, it pays—the
depositor does not suffer. The bank gets
its profit for taking this chance. The
grocer supplies the cheese, which has been
supplied by a co-operative dairy co. If
the customer does not pay, the dairy co.
does not suffer : the grocer does. He gets
his profit for taking that chance.
There is nothing more mysterious, then,
about banks’ credits than there is about
grocers’ credits. Nobody thinks of claim-
ing that in some mysterious way the credit
which a man gets at the grocer’s belongs
to the public: it is quite obvious that a
man gets it because of something in him-
self—he is honest and industrious and in
a job and so on. The credit a man gets at
a bank is exactly the same as he gets at
the grocer’s; and he gets it—or is refused
it—for exactly the same reasons at both
places.
BEYOND THE PACIFIC.
The writer is an old British merchant
in Valparaiso, Chile. His article gives
a most interesting glimpse of what is
being done in other primary-producing
countries tvhose troubles are much the
same as our own.
Chile is closing a very trying year. The
collapse of the nitrate and copper indus-
tries, which were the chief means of over-
seas payments, and the chief sources also
of the country’s revenue, has put its
finances in a very critical condition. In
an endeavor to maintain the exchange rate
at or near par, the Government created an
exchange-control bureau to prevent the
shipment of the gold reserves of the Cen-
tral Bank (Banco Central) and to avoid
the necessity of recurring to paper money.
As traders were thus deprived of the pos-
sibility of meeting pressing obligations
abroad, they were forced back upon the
bootlegging market for drafts, in spite of
that market being illegal, and though
operators in it were subject to severe
penalties if caught. It thus happened that,
although the Central Bank was ultimately
obliged to fix the official rate of exchange
at $5B (Chilian) per £ in place of the old $4O
(Chilian), it was practically a nominal
rate, because in the bootlegging market
operations took place at from $l7O to $220
per £. The rate is now about $lBO. The
American dollar reached 80, and is now at
about $55 or $6O (Chilian).
Only the Central Bank was authorised by
law to issue drafts on foreign countries;
it. was decreed that all operations in foreign
moneys must be carried on through this
bank at the official rate. But it is evident
that whoever had sterling to dispose of,
and could evade the law, would do so, when
$2OO per £ could be obtained from boot-
leggers, as against the $5B offered by the
Banco Central. Therefore the Banco Cen-
tral found itself with so little sterling or
tI.S. dollars to meet the demand that at
times it had to refuse all applications. Its
great problem was how to meet even in
part the demand for indispensable pur-
poses, such as payment for petrol, sugar,
etc. Traders suffered severely in conse-
quence. Those scored best who had least
compunction about evading the law.
The situation has been complicated by a
revolt in Santiago, backed by the military,
which deposed our excellent President
Montero, and placed in his stead, first a
military rebel whose sanity even ' was
doubted (10 days); then a civilian outlaw
(four months); next a retired general;
finally, on the civilians regaining the gov-
ernment of the country, the President of
the Supreme Court of Justice. Elections
will be held before this reaches Australia
to choose a new President of the Republic
for the legal term of six years, and a new
Congress. There are strong hopes that
with tranquillity we shall win back the con-
fidence of the world as Australia has done.
Hunger is at the bottom of most of the
insurrectionary troubles of the past year.
There were in Chile about 180,000 unem-
ployed, receiving scant assistance, public
and private, and that state of affairs pro-
vided excellent ground for Communist and
anarchist propaganda. The Russian Soviet
has its chief Soyth American base in Mon-
tevideo, the capital of Uruguay, on the
east coast, and it is beyond all doubt that
Russian money has flowed in plentifully
from there to promote disturbance and
revolution in Chile. Fortunately our
secret-police service is trustworthy and effi-
cient, and has arrested Soviet agents when-
ever discovered; these have been straight-
way banished. The Government is now
striving hard to cope with unemployment,
and about 40,000 men are employed in
gold-washing and gold-digging, with very
satisfactory results. Once the thieving
rebel Government is succeeded by a strong
constitutional Government, so that a
stricter control may be exercised, the gold
thus obtained should become a very im-
portant factor in bringing the country back
to prosperity.
The Government is actively alive to the
importance of increasing the production of
cereals and fruit in order to make good the
loss caused by the diminished sales of
nitrate; it has set out also to vigorously
encourage the establishment of new manu-
facturing industries in order to diminish
imports which it is obvious can no longer
be paid for, while providing employment for
those of our own people who are now out
of work. Our problems are those which
affect nearly every other country in the
world—commercial depression, aggravated
by Communist propaganda; but, although
the task is a very arduous one, we are
going to solve them. We must, however,
be given time. Chile has many true
patriots who are determined that she must
recover the prestige she enjoy e.d for so long
of being the model republic of South
America, whose credit stood as high as
that of the leading nations of Europe.
The current of educated opinion is run-
ning strongly towards the abolition of the
exchange control as having had a prejudi-
cial effect on the rate and on business in
general, and the matter is now under exam-
ination by a body of experts appointed for
the purpose. After two years’ experience
the mercantile community for the most
part believes that control is not a wise
measure, but has resulted in a great loss
of confidence in the country. It believes
we shall be better off without any attempt
at fixing the rate, though it may still be
necessary for the Central Bank to regu-
late it in order to prevent swift and
violent fluctuations.
D.F.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Land for the Unemployed.
At the instance of the N.S.W. Shires
Association, Jackson, the Minister for Local
Government, recently introduced a bill to
enable councils to acquire land for small
holdings and let it with option of purchase;
also to provide tools, equipment and stock,
as far as funds will allow. The idea is to
settle unemployed in the neighborhood of
country towns, and it is an excellent idea,
more especially as each local undertaking
will be under the watchful and sympathetic
eye of councillors who are experienced
farmers. It is recognised that the over-
crowded and for the most part infertile
metropolitan district is not a suitable field
for such settlement, but there is a provision
under which municipalities like Woollahra
and Vaucluse may settle city unemployed
in country districts, co-operating with the
local councils. It is also hoped to do some-
thing in the wa.y of coffimunal settlement
for those most pathetic victims of the
depression, youths who left school years
ago and have never had a chance of learn-
ing a trade or calling.
The march of events has shown that a
great many N. S. Wales landowners have
more acres than they can farm profitably,
and these times it is no use holding for a
rise. It is therefore expected that the
councils will be able to buy suitable land
at a reasonable price, and that gift blocks
will be placed at their disposal in most
districts. “The practical men of public
spirit who produced this measure,” as
Minister Jackson admitted, also have their
eyes on unused areas of Crown land. “In
my electorate,” said Carter, M.L.A. for
Liverpool Plains, “there is land set aside
for village settlement which has never been
used”; and this is no isolated case. The
same member, after giving instances of con-
stituents who had taken up small holdings
in most unpromising circumstances and
made good, pointed out that N. S. Wales,
with a far greater extent of cultivable land
than Victoria, had 6500 fewer settlers
farming 100 acres or less.
Bate, M.L.A., who is a noted South Coast
farmer, also gave the scheme his blessing.
He mentioned that it was modelled on an
English plan by virtue of which “the
English municipalities have become the
largest landowners in the United Kingdom;
they have 30,000 tenants on 500,000 acres.”
During the three-day unemployment debate
in the House of Commons, this develop-
ment of municipal enterprise was wannly
praised, and several speakers proposed that
it should be extended. 'lf English muni-
cipalities can accomplish such results, surely
N.S.W. shire councils (many of which kept
their affairs in order while Governments
were rushing to bankruptcy) should do as
well, or better. Our unemployed are more
adaptable than the English. Many of them
were bred in the country; others take
naturally to country life, or its equivalent.
On the shores of Middle Harbor, along the
banks of George’s River and in other parts
of Sydney where there is vacant land handy
to water, they have set up neat little camps
and grown vegetables in stubborn soil.
These men are worth helping. Thousands
of them would jump at the chance of getting
a small holding hard by some country town,
and would probably do well on it, and
qualify for something better. At the worst,
they would have a roof over their heads
and something in the pot, with the chance
of picking up a few pounds in spare-time
jobs, till the depression passed.
$ .
When Queensland Slipped.
“FY7”: That proposal to give private
enterprise the right to run a railway from
Bourke to Darwin, most of the route being
through Western Queensland and the
Northern Territory (B. 7/12/’32), has had
more than one predecessor. Of these, by
far the most important was the scheme
launched by- Thomas Mclhvraith, then
Premier of Queensland, in 1884. This was
to build a line lip the middle of Queensland
to a port on the Gulf of Carpentaria, start-
ing at Charleville, far west of Brisbane. It
was to be built on the land-grant system
which the Canadian Pacific Railway had
made such a success, the operating co.
receiving in alternate blocks on
each side of the line and the running rights
as well. In all the scheme involved the
alienation of 12 million acres. As Queens-
land’s total acreage is close on 430 millions,
the conditions as viewed to-day do not
appear ruinous. An English syndicate was
to carry out the j ob at its own expense,
and provision was made for the ultimate
acquirement of the line and grants by the
State, if desired.
Unfortunately for Queensland, Sam
Griffith was leader of the Opposition.
Between the forthright Australian-Scot and
his finessing Welsh-Australian opponent
there was no love lost. The matter took
on a personal flavor, and a skilfully worked-
up “land-grab” campaign, in which Griffith
posed as the protector of the small man
and urban interests from the grasping
overseas octopus and the greedy squatto-
cracy, saw the bill rejected in Parliament;
and stout old Mcllwraith was defeated in
his subsequent appeal to the country. The
reverse was the harder for him since, on
his own initiative, he had sent a scouting
party of surveyors and engineers to get
a rough idea of the probable route. _With
them was General Feilding, of the Royal
Engineers, who was the engineering expert
for the syndicate. The party had got as
far as Blackall when the project was blown out.
The rejection of the enterprise seems now
to have been unfortunate for Queensland.
The line would have opened millions of
acres of fine pastoral country, and closer
settlement, State- and syndicate-aided,
would have made Queensland far more
thickly populated than it is. A modified
version of the scheme has been adopted
by the State of late years. The inland
termini of the four trunk lines which run
far inland from Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Townsville and Cairns are gradually being
linked up; and in a few years, if conditions
improve, the long-dreamed-of Central rail-
way will have become an actuality. Whether
or not the addition of yet another line,
built on a different gauge, will benefit
Queensland much is doubtful, though the
N.T. section should prove a useful feeder
to the State system. Indeed, its chief use
would seem to be the tapping of the rich
and isolated Barkly Tableland and the
establishment of direct communication
between the N.T. and N. S. Wales, which,
of course, means ever-hungry Sydney.
-
Britain Repudiates Repudiation.
Mr. Lang’s newspaper gleefully announced
last week that the British Government had
sent a note to Washington “conveying the
truculent determination to dispense with
the sanctity of contract embodied in the
Funding Agreement of 1923” and had been
snubbed. In its editorial columns it dipped
into history:—•
When the Labor Government of N. S. Wales,
headed by Mr. Lang, proposed “to pay no interest
on war debts overseas until such time as the overseas
lenders reduced the rate of interest to 3 per cent.,
the rate at which the British debt was funded in
the United States,” there came from our local
Tory leaders an horrific howl. Yet what was re-
quested was merely—and most moderately that
Australia should ask for an arrangement with
Britain similar to Britain’s arrangement with the
U.S.A The British Government has repudiated
that thing known as the sanctity of contracts.
Mr. Lang proposed, not “to pay no interest
on war debts overseas,” a matter of
£81,000,000, but to pay no interest on all
debts overseas, a matter of £599,000,000.
Included in the £599,000,000 was the
£40,000,000 or £50,000,000 he, as State
Treasurer, borrowed overseas for works like
the city railway, electrification of suburban
lines and the harbor bridge. His proposal,
which was accompanied by wild abuse of
those whose money he had borrowed, was
turned down by the Labor Prime Minister
and the other State Premiers. He then
defaulted to the British, but paid the
Americans.
Britain has not repudiated, and never
meant to repudiate; It has paid its implac-
able creditor £19,000,000 in gold, representing
£26,000,000 at the present rate of exchange. •
It can ill afford to pay, as even the Sydney
Trades Hall knows; but, as a former Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer points out, it could
not afford to repudiate with people like
Mr. Lang, Mr. De Valera and the Shah of
Persia about.
But the payment had comic reactions
in the “Labor Daily” office. Mr. Lang’s
newspaper was knocked all of a heap. In
its dazed condition it temporarily ceased to
throw mud at Britain, attacking instead
“the most capitalistic country in the world”
on the score of its “Shylock-like attitude to
the countries of Europe that lost so terribly
in the Great War”:—
How innocent Shylock really does appear! During
some years the people in that country had been
making enormous profits out of the War.... It
was actually 15 months before American soldiers
were placed in the firing line.... The debt about
which American politicians are making so much
noise was incurred after America had declared war
against Germany, and it consisted, not of actual
money, but of goods, which enabled Britain, France
and Belgium to save the ruling classes in America
from what would have been exacted from them had
Germany been victorious.
Yet Mr. Lang paid “Shylock” and defaulted
to Britain, which “lost so terribly in the
Great War.” Why did “Labor’s great
leader” discriminate in favor of “the most
capitalistic country in the world”? Possibly
he hoped that by “scaling” his own fellow-
subjects he would endear himself to anti-
British elements in the U.S.A. and get
accommodation there; and assuredly if
loans had been forthcoming from that
quarter he would have grabbed them with
both fists. But they never arrived.
♦
Douglas Credit.
A typical letter from a Douglas Credit
enthusiast: —
Your latest article on Douglas Credit is
full of misstatements. Who but the wilfully
blind cannot see and be moved by such
economic conditions as exist to-day and con-
sequently seek a sane cure for our ills? We
have the anomaly of idle workmen, idle
machinery and so-called surplus production
along with starvation and want. Surely
this is worth putting right! And is the
reduction of the basic wage, with the pro-
duce-more-and-consume-less policy, helpful
or sane? If the people, the consumers, are
not put in a position to buy all the output
of all the factories, what is the extra pro-
duction for? What is the good of it? Cur-
rency or credit must be tied to some stand-
ard. Since gold is out of the question, what
alternative is there but to equate credit with
production? You make a number of alle-
gations, among them that Douglas’s A + B
theorem has been blown out again and again.
By whom? And what are its fallacies? Con-
vincing proof that they are fallacies is
anxiously awaited.
To which this paper replies:—
The Bulletin sympathises with the idle
workmen; it has given acres of space during
the past three years to their problems. But
the more one sympathises with a friend who
has a painful disease, the more careful one
is about the doctor one hands him over to.
One doesn’t sympathise with him any the
less because one refuses to hand him over
to the first plausible quack who comes along.
That isn’t sympathy. That is laziness.
Our money system has failed for the time
being. Is it any wonder, in view of what
the world has passed through? It has failed
because of human shortcomings—greed,
thirst for poAver, mistrust and so on. But
the Douglas system is more susceptible to
these influences than most other systems.
And this quite apart from the mathematics
of the thing, which damn it from the outset.
Douglas’s A + B theorem is to the
effect that industries collectively do not dis-
tribute sufficient purcliasing-poAver to enable
their goods to be bought. That is the funda-
mental error. Actually every item of cost in
the production of goods is represented by a
similar amount of purchasing-power. But
in boom times the mass of the public is
liable to get its purchasing-power in a large
volume; and unless they are thrifty and
cautious, the very volume of the p.-p. reduces
its value in relation to goods. Prices rise, and
perhaps the workmen are exploited. They
spend most of what they earn, the boom
subsides, and the manufacturers proceed to
charge, in the prices of their goods, for
wear and tear and interest on the fixed
assets erected during the boom. So poverty
descends on the working public because
their p.-p.' has mostly gone in advance, and
is now held in a comparatively few hands.
Workmen may not have received full value
for their p.-p.; it may not have been fairly
distributed between manufacturers, workmen
and suppliers of raAV materials; but dis-
tributed to some body it has been.
If Jones can manufacture furniture, and
is glad to make it if he can exchange it
for clothes and food in sufficient quantity to
reward him for his labor, then there is
obviously something wrong with our money
system if the textile-manufacturer and grocer
with surplus stocks cannot get a reason-
able amount of furniture in return for their
products. But bring in an element of “some-
thing for nothing” to stimulate purchases
on either side, then somebody has to be
robbed, and the stimulant will only last so
long as there is someone to be robbed.
Douglas’s theory of a. “just price” to which
goods will be reduced is based on the public’s
purchasing-power, and not upon compara-
tive costs in industry. A reduction in the
price of a certain quantity of goods to the
“just” figure by means of a national sub-
sidy will only affect that particular lot of
goods. The manufacturer has made little
more than his usual profit; the consumer
certainly has benefited, because the Govern-
ment has made him a present of a large part
of his requirements. But the Government
has a liability to its noteholders or the
manufacturers for the full expense of the
present. And unless the subsidy is continued
prices must rise, because wages are the
same and raw materials cost as much as
before. So the Government’s liabilities to
the manufacturers and/or its noteholders
pile up; the currency is fiat money; and the
only backing to it is the right to tax—a
very heavy socialistic weapon.
*
New States and the Senate.
“Mudgee,” a lawyer, offers a neAV reading:
In the “Australian Year Book” I read,
relative to interpretation of Section 7 of
the Constitution Act, which fixes the Senate
representation of Original States: “What
Avas left of New South Wales [after forma-
tion of New States] would undoubtedly be
the Original State of New South Wales, and
therefore Avould be entitled under the Con-
stitution to retain the six Senators granted
in the Constitution to an Original State.”
I have seen many similar interpretations,
but never yet have I seen what seems to me
the only true one.
The Original State is and must always
remain the State as at the formation of the
Commonwealth. The whole of N. S. Wales
as it was in 1901 and still remains can
under the Constitution have only the same
number of Senators (at present six) as any
other Original State. The result is that if
N. S. Wales is divided into, say, three New
States as at present proposed, those six
Senators could be apportioned out to each
New State by the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment ; but in all probability each of the
three parts would have two Senators apiece.
The total of the three parts cannot now have
and could not then have more than each other
Original State. Why should “Original
State” have a different meaning on the for-
mation of New States to A\diat it had in
1901 and has to-day?
This interpretation is so in harmony with
the spirit of the Constitution that I cannot
conceive of any other being accepted. It
certainly adds to the constitutional and prac-
tical difficulties of New Staters.
Upon which The Bulletin remarks:—
The Constitution defines an Original State
as a State Avhich is part of the Common-
wealth at its establishment; and if an
Original State ceases to be such Ayhen it has
suffered any diminution of territory, then
already N. S. Wales has ceased to be an
Original State because of the excision of
the Federal Capital Territory. The Bul-
letin for its part, declines to take that
view. ’ Section 123 of the Constitution says:
“The Parliament of the Commonwealth may,
with the consent of the Parliament of a
State, and the approval of the majority of the
electors of the State voting upon the ques-
tion, increase, diminish or otherwise alter
the limits of the State.” From this it seems
clear that the limits of the State may be
increased, diminished or altered and it will
still remain “the State.” An Original State,
according to this reading, (remains such
though its limits have been diminished by the
excision of an area for the creation of a
New State.
Prometheus Bound.
“Spasebo”: Mr. Latham, our good-looking
Attorney-General, has a Crimes Act, and
it is based on the assumption that if we
can only get rid of foreign agitators all will
be Avell. Disregarding the implied insult to
Australian manhood, I submit that Mr.
Latham’s career is itself a contradiction of
his theory. In his university days our
Attorney-General was a radical; in fact,
almost a revolutionary. Even to-day he
confesses that he sometimes reads Locke’s
“Toleration,” Mill “On Liberty” and Mil-
ton’s “Areopagitica” in order to “get back
to sound principles.” But when he had
finished a brilliant career at his Alma
Mater, Mr. Latham found opportunity
beckoning him. The social system might
not be perfect, but it at least provided an
outlet for the energies of an active and
enterprising individual. In my schooldays
I was in much the same mood as Mr.
Latham. I was a sort of Wellsian socialist.
I believed that it would be better if one
socialised baker delivered bread in my
street instead of a dozen competitive bakers.
But when I left school opportunity also
beckoned me. Two firms, both of which
seemed founded on the Rock of Ages,
offered me positions that promised a life-
time of security as well as useful activity.
My socialism steadily became more and
more academic. If I were leaving school
to-day, I think it is reasonably certain I
would become a Communist.
If Mr. Latham wants to see what un-
wanted youth may do to a community, he
should study China. It was the sons of
mandarins who destroyed the Son of
Heaven. In Italy the enei;gy of youth
was canalised by Fascism, in Russia by
Communism; and those two countries, in
marked contrast to the rest of the world,
are purposeful and active. In India the
schools for generations have been turning
out half-educated youths whom society has
no use for. The enemy appears to be the
British Government, and the youths become
terrorists and perform feats of fantastic
heroism. In this country our educational
system goes on grinding out its products
as if nothing had changed in the world out-
side, and the number of Australian babus
is steadily increasing.
Mr. Latham’s Crimes Act is based on the
notion that the technique of revolution is
an esoteric mystery that has to be pain-
fully learnt from books or foreign instruc-
tors, and that immense sums of money,
inferentially from Moscow, are required to
keep the movement going. If every copy
of Marx’s “Das Kapita.l” were burnt and
every agitator with a foreign accent
deported, it is presumed that the danger
would be averted. Yet I have met only
one Australian Communist who had read
Marx, and he was not a militant revo-
lutionary. I guarantee to teach any person
above the mental age of eight the entire
intellectual equipment of tlie practical revo-
lutionary in five minutes. !' consists of
half a dozen slogans, such as Property Is
Theft,” “Religion Is the Opium of the
People,” “Workers, You Have N- Tung but
Your Chains to Lose,” “Bonnie;. .3 Art Is
Class Art,” and so on. Revolutionary poetry
is of the same simple but compelling order.
If you are well fed and respected or hold
a job in which you can be active and
looked-up to, like Mr. Latham, these
phrases will be difficult to learn and sound
incomprehensible. If you are hungry or
resentful towards society, they will be easy
to learn and sound like divine wisdom.
♦-
The New Indian Army.
The long-promised step towards the
“Indianisation” of the native army in India
was taken this month when Sir Philip
Chetwode, remembered by Light Horsemen
as commander of the Desert Column in
Sinai and Palestine, and now C. in C. in
India, opened the Indian Military Academy
at Dera Dun, near the hill station of Mus-
soorie, in the United Provinces. The
academy will be a training school for native
officers, open to candidates of all castes
and creeds, and trainees passing out will be
eligible for commissions in all branches of
the Indian army. Those familiar with the
past, when the British officer was the mortar
which bound the complex structure of a
native regiment together, ca.n do no more
than hope that the scheme will work out well.
Hitherto the average native infantry bat-
talion has had, roughly, an establishment
of 12 British officers and 20 natives, and
a similar system has obtained in the
cavalry. Two-thirds of the Indian army is
Hindu or Sikh and the other third Mussul-
man. The Hindus range through all the
castes, and all of them are antagonistic to
each othef and the Mussulman. As the
army stands, the separate castes are drafted
into separate companies, and the Mussul-
mans are similarly set apart. Over all'are
the Sahib officers to keep the balance be-
tween warring faiths with a tactful im-
partiality which has rarely been questioned.
As the new plan develops, the British
officer will gradually disappear, until the
entire personnel of the regiment, from
colonel to the last-joined recruit, will be
Indians. The day may come when
a sweeper’s son will command a regiment
largely made up of Brahmins or Rajputs.
To men of these and most other castes he
would be a loathsome . pariah, and to be
addressed by him would be a degradation.
To the Mussulmans of his command he
would be a devourer of swine’s flesh and an
idol-worshipper. Similarly a Mussulman
colonel would be regarded by, many of his
regiment as a slayer of the sacred cow,
fortunate if in his next existence he is
permitted to assume the form even of a
dung-beetle.
Of course, optimists say that class pre-
judice and religious intolerance will vanish
from India in a few years, and that the
principles and traditions of thousands of
years will crumble at the trumpet blast of
modern enlightenment. It is a great deal
to believe.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL ' - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Rirchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
_ All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars' of
Safe Rentals on application.
sl| Fine Diamonds
1 £2O
Fine Diamonds
£25
| Fine Diamonds
I £2B
'wzMwmmmm
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
Diamond ENGAGEMENT
RINGS
Sapphire & Diamonds
£2O
Fine Diamonds
£5O
The Diamonds used in the Rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest quality
Blue White Gems the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout with pure
Platinum Settings, these Rings repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
A Catalogue of Bings, Jewellery,
Silverplate, Silver and Wedding Pres-
ents sent post free on request.
SYDNEY;
13 HUNTER STREET
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET
POLITICAL
POINTS
W. J. Cleary, who was appointed Chief
Commissioner of Railways by Bavin, sacked
by Lang, and reinstated _ by Stevens when
Lang’s protege Goode retired as a result of
a Royal Commissioner’s report, has resigned
after a hectic three years. He says trans-
port has become “a plaything of politics,”
and the administration is utterly demoralised
and needs reorganising root and branch;
but because he would be sure to be accused
of vindictiveness .it would be better for the
State to have the job done by someone else.
Cleary could stay on for another six years if
he liked, and, if removed in consequence of
“recent threats in Parliament to reverse
appointments when opportunity may arise,”
could demand compensation; but he is reliev-
ing the State of all responsibility for pay
or recompense. He is that sort of man.
The syndicate which has made a vague
proposal to build a sort of land-grant rail-
way from Bourke through West Queens-
land into the Northern Territory has been
alarmed by the vigor of the opposition in
S. Australia, and has issued a statement to
the effect that the 1 proposal really doesn’t
affect the Commonwealth’s agreement with
S. Aus. to complete the transcontinental line.
If so, the syndicate has been most unfor-
tunate in its advocates. The “S. M. Herald,”
in a plainly-inspired article introducing the
scheme, said that obviously the proposal
“opens up the old controversy,” but that
“both developmental and strategic considera-
tions have altered” since 1907, when the
agreement was entered into, A suggestion
that an agreement can be torn up when it
no longer suits one of the parties to honor
it is rather startling even when it comes
from the Shah of Persia.
The Commonwealth Government has made
a grant of £lO9O to the Sydney postal assis-
tant who was blinded when he and his chief,
the William-street postmaster, were held up
and robbed for the second time; and super-
annuation and worker’s-compensation pay-
ments will come to £3 13s. 10d. a week. It
is little enough', considering what the poor
fellow went through, and what he will still
have to suffer; and there are ways in which
his lot could be made less bitter. Persons
who« have never shown anything like 'his
devotion to duty travel free in Government
trains and trams. 'The man who was charged
with the fearful crime was found guilty on
two counts and sentenced to 35 years’ im-
prisonment. He was out on bail on a house-
breaking charge when the victim was robbed
and left sightless on the ground; and that
is a matter that will have to be looked into.
It is believed that half the serious crimes
reported in Sydney are committed by desper-
ate offenders whom softhearted magistrates
have let out. on bail.
“Mr. Lyons is spending a month at his home in
Tasmania. He will have leisure to ponder on the
fact that Customs and excise revenue for November
was £704,000 more than his estimate, items showing
increases including textiles and apparel, oils, paints,
furniture, jewellery and -fancy goods.”
“But what are you going to do about this
rising tide of imports?”
“Come back in a month’s time. Then I
shan’t be so busy.”
When Vic. Assembly tossed out the Flour
Acquisition Bill, designed to rake in Bd. a
bushel for local wheatgrowers on the home-
consumption portion of this season’s crop,
disappointed Cocky supporters of the
Argyles realised that city Nats, were get-
ting even with them for their Mortgage
Interest Bill tactics. To please the Agrarian
group the Argyles gave the measure a fly,
but 14 Nats, combined with 13 Laborites to
defeat it by one vote. Of course, Labor
tried to save its face by proposing combined
Australian legislation, knowing its amend-
ment had no chance.
To the astonishment of the Speck Parlia-
ment, Premier McPhee announced that he
had been asked what the Government would
take for the State insurance office, and was
inviting all private concerns in the islet to
bid. The office has been making profits of
£3OOO or £4OOO a year since its inception a
decade and a half ago. and it straightway
announced in newspaper advertisements that
it didn’t want to be sold. McPhee says the
Government is merely obtaining information
and has not decided on a sale.
While Uncle Sam was holding out both
hands, palms up and cupped, to his former
Allies (he spared his
former enemies),
Hearst, the boss of
a string of America s
yellowest journals,
cabled to London
his opinion that the
U.S.A. should give
the most. sympa-
thetic consideration
to Britain’s request
for better terms. He
added that Britain
had earned this by
its honesty and de-
termination to pay,
but that no clem-
ency should be
shown to a “habi-
tual repudiationist
like France or a
mendicant nation
like Italy.” The
references to France
and Italy seem to
point to the little
nigger in the wood-
heap. It looks as if
Hearst is so fond of
Britain that he
wants to make all
the trouble he can
between it and other
European nations.
One McFadden, a
member of Congress,
has had the hide to
propose that Britain
should cede most of
its North Atlantic
possessions to Uncle in part-payment of
the war debt. Canada and Newfound-
land are graciously excluded from the
list of countries which are to haul down
their national and Imperial flags, but the
West Indies and Sliakspeare’s “still vexed
Bermoo'thes” are on it; and to the Devil
with self-determination!
Queensland Labor’s arbitration tribunal is
to consist of a Judge at £2500 a year and
two lay members at £2OOO each. Maher, the
member for West Mo reton, inquired whether
Theodore would be one of the two-thousand-
pounders, and. being informed by Llewellyn,
from Toowoomba, that he had “a filthy mind,”
retaliated wdth a punch. For this he was
suspended for the rest of the sitting; and
next day he was called to the bar, where he
apologised. The punch put the man in the
wrong; yet ho had asked a fair question.
Theodore was a Labor Premier, and the last
Labor Government set up an Arbitration
Court consisting of a Labor Premier (the
late Gillies), an A.W.U. secretary (the late
Dunstan) and a Judge.
The Italian trouble on the N.Q. sugar
fields is brewing up again. A.W.U. organ-
isers reported that Italian cane-farmers
were engaging more than the stipulated pro-
portion of their own countrymen for field
work. As a result, the mills were warned
that if they took cane from these farmers
the British A.W.U'. millworkers would not
handle it. The mills refused to touch the
cane, and two of the farmers concerned
brought an action asking for damages and
an injunction. A jury found for the defen-
dant mill. The Italians say they are not
going to accept the finding, and in the last
resort will see Mussolini about it.
Nine years ago M.L. orchards were
afflicted with fire-blight, and to protect this
country from contagion the Federal Health
Department banned the import of fruit from
Maoriland. Maoriland continued to accept
Australian fruit and vegetables, and the
trade last year was worth £183,000.
Attempts to get the Australian embargo
removed having failed, the Dominion has
discovered a polite excuse for paying the
Commonwealth back in its own coin. The
U.S.A., it is alleged, refuses to take M.L.
fruit because M.L. imports Australian fruit,
which, it is feared, may carry the fruit-fly.
M.L. would rather have a market in Aus-
tralia than in the U.S.A., but it must take
what it can get; so it has placed an embargo
on Australian fruit and vegetables. It seems
a matter that could be settled in an hour’s
heart-to-heart talk; and no bureaucratic
pigheadedness should be allowed to stand
in the way.
Queensland’s new Industrial Arbitration
Bill gives railwaymen and civil servants
the 44-hour week as well as the bless-
ings of arbitration. Forgan Smith has
said much about the necessity for econ-
omy. Few would cavil at train staffs
getting the 44-hour week, but, by extending
it to soft-jobbers, Smith will uselessly in-
crease the cost of an already overmanned
and insolvent department. The bill also pro-
vides for the reinstatement of dismissed
strikers. What that will do in the way of
tightening up railway discipline, never an
outstanding feature of the Queensland ser-
vice, needs no telling.
Stevens’s Government lost control of the
Leg. Council when the two Labor factions
combined to “amend” its Moratorium Bill —
they galloped to the defence of rich Friends
of the Workers who were to have been held
“Frarice, Belgium, Poland, Esthonia and Hungary failed to meet their
war-debt payments to the U.S.A.; the Herriot Government, which proposed
to pay, was defeated. Britain paid. In Urging this course, Churchill asked
the Commons to remember Lang, Dei Valera and the Shah of Persia.”
“You needn’t tell me I can ill afford to pay. Fact is, I can’t
afford not to pay.”
“Vot do you mean by that? Vot are your reasons?”
“Well, here’s three of them.”
to contracts for the purchase of property
for £lO,OOO and upwards which Bang author-
ised them to, repudiate. Nevertheless,
Stevens protested last week that he never
meant to .swamp the Council. His Govern-
ment accepted the Moratorium Bill in its
mangled form, and then tried to break all
records in the way of rushing bills through
in order to get done by Christmas. The
House of Review ( !) obliged to the extent
of passing 18 bills at a seven-hour sitting.
Then it got out of hand again, and by the
end of the week it had vitally altered the
Landlord and Tenant Bill, held up the
Meat Industry Board Bill, and was getting
ready to throw out the Abolition of Night
Betting Bill when the Government decided
to drop that measure. “Never mind,” the
U.A.P. says; “a reformed Upper House will
he set up next year.” But the electors will
have t 0 approve first, and these slapdash
methods will not help to secure their
approval.
The British branch of the Communist
organisation called “the Unemployed
Workers’ Movement” is temporarily short
of a leader. One Elias, who bossed it from
Moscow part of the time, has been sen-
tenced to two years for inciting his lieu-
tenants “to cause discontent, dissatisfaction
and ill-will among his Majesty’s subjects,
and to create public disturbances against
the police.” The presiding Judge expressed
in a few pithy sentences what agitators shel-
tered by the British Commonwealth of
Nations may and may not do :
Britain’s policy is to allow people to express any
views and to advocate any revolution they wish,
provided they refrain from inciting others to disorder
or violence. Elias admitted having incited a mass
struggle against “the capitalist State.” Demon-,
strations requiring police intervention are unlawful.
These words should be committed to memory
by Australian politicians and magistrates.
“The Unemployed Workers’ Movement” has
had a setback in Lithgow also. It ran Lith-
gow, with cruel results to hundreds of decent
families, whose menfolk were intimidated
into refusing relief work, burning dole cards
and joining in mob demonstrations against
the police. While “the revolution” was thus
advanced women and children went hungry.
Finally the “president” of the “movement”
blundered or was the victim of an unhappy
accident. The stage being set for an attack
on the police, he found himself in front of
the mob, instead of leading from the favorite
Communist position, and hit out blindly. The
police grabbed him, cleared the street, and
bundled him into the lock-up, and a magis-
trate presently gave him six months. Deliv -
ered from such leadership, the steadygomg
unemployed have broken away from the Com-
munist concern, and most of them are now
bringing home pay envelopes instead ot
Moscow tracts.
Under Lang-N. S. Wales became a para-
dise for tipsters as well as tm-hare joints.
His “Labor Daily” alone carried columns
of advertisements in which “editors and
others offered to emancipate the workers by
putting them on to winners. One of the
advertisers has sworn that his takings from
Feb. 6 to June 4 amounted to £2564. or
£142 a week. From June 11 to November
19 they dropped to £l6 a week. But the
gentleman doesn’t blame Stevens (although
the election took place on June 11. and
Stevens has certainly cramped the frater-
nity’s style) so much as another gentleman
in the same line, also a “Labor Daily” adver-
tiser. whom he sued for defamation. He
asked a jury for £lOOO and was awarded £BOO
—£sso for damage to business and £250. for
injury to character. A stay of proceedings
was granted oil defendant giving security for
£5OO. and then the parties adjourned—pre-
sumably to do some more emancipating.
China and Red Russia have resumed dip-
lomatic relations. They parted company
after the Kuomintang had availed itself of
all the Russian help it wanted on its march
to Peking. As soon as Chiang Kai-shek got
safely in the saddle he commenced suppress-
ing the left wing of his party; but this
didn’t prevent Communism spreading over
one-fifth of the Republic. Chiang has just
returned from another campaign of suppres-
sion ; so, in effect, the Soviet is seeking
friendly relations with a Government which is
engaged in destroying a movement, emanating
from Moscow. The real target aimed at is,
of course, Japan.
Under the Vic. Theatres Bill the respon-
sibility of admitting children to cinemas
showing films classed as “not suitable for
general exhibition” is to be placed on
parents. As the parents will usually sec
such films for the first time in the company
of their children they won’t know whether
the children ought to have seen them until
they have seen them. Anguish will rend
the bosom of a conscientious father when,
the last close-up and close-tackle having
faded from the screen, his little ones raise
their clouded eyes reproachfully and lisp
“Daddy, how could you?” The one ray of
hope in the situation is that the infants will
find their parents’ notion of an evening's
entertainment so insufferably dull that wild
motor-cars won’t drag them to it.
The Queensland Government is indignant
at the discovery that civil servants are doing
outside work in their spare time and getting
paid for it. It has issued a warning to the
culprits that they will have to stop it or
take the sack. The proceeding seems illogical,
since the same Government approves of civil
servants engaging in political activities to
better their condition. Of course, it expects
them to organise, canvass and orate for Our
Party.
Having inserted safeguards for newspaper
proprietors and newsagents, Vic. Parliament
passed the bill making it an offence, punish-
able with severe penalties, to publish or dis-
“Minister Bob Menzies has dropped all the con-
tentious clauses of the Vic. Transport Regulation
Bill, which aroused widespread protests, and will
content himself with setting up a board.”
“So you’re not to have your car this year,
Boh?”
“No, but I’ve got the starting-handle.”
seminate false advertisements. An Assem-
blyman expressed regret that “lying and
unscrupulous” propaganda issued regarding
the Transport Bill didn’t come within the
scope of the measure.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Strict Veg.” : Father Murphy, the rector
of Newman College, Melbourne, conducts the
R.C. hour over SAW. The other day
an inquirer wrote asking how he Avould get
his shirt over his Avings when he got to
Heaven. Presumably he thought the ques-
tion would be a corker. Father Murphy
replied that that wouldn’t be his problem at
all; the trouble for him would be how to get
his trousers over his tail.
“C.Q.”: If all the proposals for celebrat-
ing. the centenary of Melbourne come to
fruition, 1935 should be a wonderful year.
Those submitted to the Gonder committee
include a visit from two princes, calls by
British and foreign navies, the roofing-over
of the Jolimont railway yards to provide
another Luna Park, the making of a
second St. Kilda-road up from Port
Melbourne, turning of the Yarra into
a lake, delegations of Scotchmen, Welshmen,
Irishmen, Boy Scouts and others, exhibitions
of local and imported art, Avorld literary
lions to be given the freedom of the city,
eisteddfods, liedertafels, popular science dem-
onstrations, theatrical performances, Olympic
Games, overhead motor road in Collins-street,
fireworks, free beer and flower festivals.
Many of these suggestions are mere wish-
fulfilment, a pastime much indulged in in
Melbourne, which is full of people who spend
their leisure Avorking out grandiose schemes
to be executed with other people’s money.
One person suggested that all babies born
in 1935 should be compulsorily tattooed with
the coat of arms of the city. This proposal
is heartily endorsed by the professional tat-
tooers. My suggestion is that the south wind
should be intercepted and used for freezing
mutton.
* * H:
“S.T.S.”: An Adelaide charity has had a
pleasant surprise. One H. J. BoAver left it
the residue of his estate “to pay four shil-
lings a Aveek to two poor Avidows Avhile it
lasts.” He seems to have thought the resi-
due Avould be worth about £200; instead it
came to over £2OOO. The trustees, with the
approval of the Supreme Court, have been
able to buy eight cottage homes, to be let
to widows at a nominal rent.
“Nimshi”: Women have invaded many iicav
fields of recent years, but Melbourne has sup-
plied the first of her sex—in Aus-
tralia. at all events —to be charged
with driving a motor-car while “under
the influence.” The lady made wrong
turnings at a couple of crowded inter-
sections and a medicine-bottle found
in the car (it wasn’t the right medi-
cine) didn’t mend things for her. No
evidence was given as to whether she
had been subjected to a “British Con-
stitution” test, and a doctor deposed
that she was sober three hours later,
but the P.M. refused to be moved by
the plea that she felt her position
keenly. He rocked in a stiff fine with a
year’s suspension from driving on top of it.
* * * *
.Did Q : Every State in Australia can
claim police magistrates who never served
an apprenticeship to the law but neverthe-
less made a great success of the job (B.
14/12/’ 32). Queensland has had four notable
examples. One was Colonel (“Pa”) Pinnoek,
a former Imperial officer, who went to
the Bench after trying various other occu-
pations in Australia. Another was Robert
Rankin, who began as a pastoralist and
sugar grower. In the great shearers’ strike
of 1891, when he was given very special
powers in the West, Rankin’s impartiality
and tact Avon over all parties and averted
Avlrat might have developed into a serious
situation. YaldAvin, another of the quartette,
was also a squatter in the beginning. Mur-
ray, about the Inst of the non-official beaks,
EXCHANGE.
SUITOR: “I want to take your daughter for my wife.”
FATHER: “Cripes, I’d he glad to; hut I got one."
was originally a cadet in the Native
Mounted Police of chequered memory.
“Ibn el Issar”: The Sydney afternoon
press is never more inaccurate than when
it invades India. The “Sun” published two
consecutive items in its columns of causerie
last week which take the biscuit. One is
a bit of doggerel addressed by one Chunder
.Tibberjee, and therefore by his name a Ben-
gali Hindu, to the leader of, the Ass. Press.
It winds up with an invocation to Allah,
such as only a ‘Moslem would use. The next
is some comment on Pataudi’s slow batting.
It states that the Nawab has-sworn off
co-operation and will no longer regard the
ball as “an untouchable.” Pataudi is a Mos-
lem, and therefore the ' question of Hindu
castes or non-castes is not of any moment
to him.
“Also R.A.N.”: While the
11.A.N. welfare committees are
placing the lower deck’s grievances
before the Naval Board those in
the R.N. are about to be dis-
banded. The Admiralty finds that
welfare committees are composed
mainly of men with the gift of the
gab who cause dissatisfaction, in
stead of removing it. The rating
who wants any redress has access
at all times to his divisional officer,
Avhose duty is to help his men out
of trouble, as well as to keep
them up to the mark. Jack can
then go on to the commander, or
put his best clothes on and see the
captain. If he still feels badly
treated he can see the admiral on
that dignitary’s next visit to the
ship. M’Lords of the Admiralty
consider they can get a more con-
tented lower deck this way, while
keeping the spruiking loafer out of a soft
job.
* * $
“Ricochet” : One of the most curious kill-
ings on record occurred in Perth the other
day when a-, young bandsman, on his way to
play in an orchestra, dropped in a city street
with a bullet in his breast and died forth-
with. His mate alongside him could see no
assailant and hear nothing but “a noise like
a cracker going off.” Police suspected a
criminal using a pistol with a silencer, but
the post-mortem cleared everything up. The
bullet—from a .303 rifle, probably a service
one—had entered the chest in a downward
direction and, glancing off a rib, liad gone
upwards again to a shoulder-blade. The
diagnosis was that someone a mile away
had fired a rifle in the air and that the
bullet, completing its arc, had struck the
unfortunate youth. The “cracker” was
supposed to be the impact of the. bullet
when it hit him. That, of course, is non-
sense. A dull thump is all that any bullet
makes when it hits flesh. Undoubtedly that
bullet ricocheted downwards off a wall or
post before hitting the human target, and
the crack heard was the result of that
impact.
* * * *
“Oxmead” : The paragraph about the late
Fred Johns killing the old back-scratching
biographies with his conscientiously com-
piled reference books recalls Kimberly’s
“West Australia.” Kimberly was an enter-
prising London journalist who struck the
West in the gold-boom days, when plenty of
citizens had money to burn in getting them-
selves buttered in black and white, and he
played up to the vanity of his customers as
no man has ever done in Australia, before
or since. He called his volume, published
at a couple of guineas or so, a “History of
AVest Australia,” and, to give it its due, the
historical section was admirably done with
the aid of documents that the Government
placed at his disposal. After that every sub-
scriber who paid an extra fiver got his photo,
inserted and a complimentary notice of his
pedigree and activities. For a tenner the
notice became an unstinted eulogy and for
twenty pounds a glowing panegyric. And
the stuff was written with a deal of literary
ability, too. Subscribers read in it, pre-
sumably unmoved, about themselves the flat-
tering superlatives that are generally re-
served for tombstones, and a stranger, turn-
ing over the pages, might have concluded that
Westralia, in the mid-’nineties, contained a
number of men as distinguished in their
various crafts as Athens in her golden age.
It is a long time since I saw a copy of
Kimberly’s magnum opus, but it was knock-
ing about Westralian newspaper offices for
years. It had some value as a reference book
and more as a contribution to gaiety.
* :J: * *
“Unity” : I can’t imagine any role coming
amiss "to the Sydney policeman (E.
14/32/’32). We arranged a fete in our sub-
urb for a charitable cause. Some _ wowser
rang up the police with a complaint that
there were to be dreadful goings-on, and
a large and magnificent constable arrived
to keep an eye on the revels. For a while
the presence of Law and Order in uniform
cramped our innocent gaiety, hut as soon as
someone had ventured to ask the uninvited
guest if he had a mouth on him his profes-
sional austerity vanished and he became one
of us. Indeed, he was presently the life and
soul of the party, and towards midnight, after
he had won the hop, step and jump on the
lawn and come second in the waltzing com-
petition, he produced an outsize notebook and
asked one of the guests to write in'a steady
hand that there was nothing to report.
“D.”: I see by a cable that _ Mel G.
Lawton has sold his Bradman talkie, “How
I Play Cricket,” in Britain. Canada, South
Africa and elsewhere. Here ar.e some
more that would do Australia good if
exhibited widely overseas: —
Any first-class team of beach lifesavers in action.
A series of good snow scenes. (They see little
snow ip England and nine Britons out of ten think
this country is a burning, bone-dry plain.)
Some pictures of big-game fishing—Spanish
mackerel, kingfish, etc.—off Port Stephens. There
is nothing better in its line outside Florida.
Any of our Olympic Games winners in action.
“How I Play Golf,” by the boy champions
Williams (Vic.) and Ferrier (N.S.W.).
If I were King of Australia I would put
an embargo on the export of the following: —
All “Dad” and “Bloke” films. They depict an
Australia that vanished after the Armistice, if,
indeed, it ever existed.
Talkies made by local politicians. We know our
Parliamentarians are a long way below f.a.q.
standard, but why tell the world about it?
Society films (garden parties and the like) which
reveal the gangling males and badly-dressed females
who compose our publicity-chasing classes.
Pictures of racecourse crowds. They merely
advertise what an irresponsible lot of boneheads many
thousands of us are.
Briefly, let the nation puts its best leg for-
ward, and keep the other out of sight as
far as possible. It would be worth millions
in trade- —tourist and otherwise —not to
mention prestige.
jj. * * ❖
“O. dc V.”: That Digger verse “San
Fairy Ann” was incorrectly sub-titled “Sans
Faire Rien” (B. 14/12/’B2). “San Fairy
Ann” was the Diggers’ rendering of _ that
expressive French idiom “Ga ne fait rien!”
which means “It doesn’t matter!” or “Can’t
be helped!” In Russia it’s “ Nichevo ” ; in
West Africa they solace you with “ Tid’apa ”;
and from Singapore to Shanghai the first bit
of pidgin the visitor assimilates is the “Mas-
ker,” shrugged with the tiresome complacency
of a people who consistently refuse to let the
little things in life annoy them.
A MAYOR IN THE MAKING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The ne\v Lord Mayor of Sydney, Aid. Hag-011,
will supervise the making of his robes of office by his
own tailoring firm.”
Ah! not for liim the trumpery rabbitskin,
The well-worn gown, devoid of cut and
shape,
Which those to civic eminence who win
In humble burgs around their frames must
drape.
He needs must dress the part to play the
rOle,
Be brave in finery as well as strong
Of purpose and inflexible of soul.
(Sweet Snips, stitch softly till I end my
song.)
Noblesse oblige. Not his to fuss or flinch
As round his ribs the telltale tape they
run,
Soon to proclaim him mayoral, ev’ry inch,
More recognisably than Whittington.
Here’s corded silk, material rich and rare,
That old Beau Brummel would have voted
prime,
And stately ermine such as Judges wear.
(Go gently, cutters, while I sling my
rhyme.)
Vain, is he vain? Nay. put that thought
away.
The rustle of those lordly robes may well
Compose a row that gavels cannot stay
Or passionate appeals for order quell.
Who drives fat oxen should himself be sleek,
And lie who’d hustle burgesses along
Must wear attire imposingly unique.
. (Hum briskly, Singers, till I end my
song.)
The noisiest tribune at the council board,
The demagogue most apt to raise a storm,
May curb his rancor if he glance toward
A glass of fashion and a mould of form.
THESE HARD TIMES.
COHEN : “Come inside an’ I’ll sell yer something!"
ISAACS: “Me! Vat for?”
COHEN: “Practice!”
When tongues wax quarrelsome and tempers
t ense
A soothing balm, I’ve noted many a time,
Lurks in sartorial magnificence.
(Sweet Snips, stitch'softly till I ve shaped
my rhyme.)
Once'on a time there was a proverb ran
Though some obscurity about it cleaves,
I'm told—-“ Nine tailors cannot make a man.’
A Mayor, though, ’s another pair of sleeves,
These robes, like Grecian draperies floAving
loose,
They ought to thrill the aldermanic throng
And gladden camera men. (Goose, gentle
goose,
Glide lightly o’er them as I end my song.)
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Dartmoor”: That the criminal sirens
depicted by Edgar Wallace and Phillips
Oppeuheim are quite liable to turn up in
real life is evidenced in the recently-pub-
lished memoirs of Colonel E. F. Rich, gover-
nor of many English prisons. He tells of
a certain Maud ——, with whom he often
came in contact in the course of his duties.
She was lovely and fascinating beyond belief,
and had a string of convictions a mile long
for all sorts of things, from bigamy to
forgery. Once she obtained a situation as
a governess with a county family, forging
the references. The family solicitor heard
of it and wrote to his clients giving Maud’s
dossier. The lady had made such a good
impression, however, that the family refused
to believe their legal adviser. In despera-
tion he went down in person to expose her.
What happened no one really knows, but
the second day after his arrival he bolted
with Maud!
:!: * * >!:
“Lord Luvus”: Some doubt has been
expressed as to whether the Prince of Wales
is really a member of the Vic. Billposters’
Union, which has been the proud boast of
that organisation ever since H.R.H.’s visit.
According to an official pronouncement on
the subject/Edward P. made complimentary
references to some stickers he had seen on
Melbourne hoardings, remarking that they
Avere the art of the people. This so
delighted the union that it decided to make
him a life member and he was duly informed
by letter of the distinction conferred on him.
His private secretary replied stating that
the Prince appreciated the compliment and
wished the union success, and each Christ-
mas since a card has come from the Prince’s
secretary conveying greetings to Melbourne
comrades. This appears to dispose of the
matter finally, and no complications are
expected, unless the union happens to be on
strike and the royal member persists in
pasting posters up in London.
* * *
“Farleigli” : In the article on “The Birth
of Words” and their frequently brief life
(B. 14/12/’32) it is stated that no “longer
does anyone ‘come a Cadorna’ —the very
name of the unfortunate general is for-
gotten.” Yet some of these currencies die
WILL O’ THE WISP .
NIECE: “My, a husband like Uncle Will must have been hard to find, Auntie!”
AUNTIE: “Umph! Lie still is.”
hard. Forty years ago I first heard in Aus-
tralia the expression “all sirgarneo” (mean-
ing “everything right” or something to that
effect) and it puzzled me. The only explana-
tion I ever got was that it Avas derived from
the name of Sir Garnet (later Viscount)
YVolseley. Yet this was 20 years after Wol-
selcy’s Ashanti expedition and I never heard
the bit of Army slang, as doubtless it origin-
ally was, in England. On the other hand,
other war-time coinages, whatever need they
supply and however wide their vogue, rapidly
fall into desuetude. During the Boer War
everybody knew what being “Stellenbosched”
meant —it conveyed the picture of an incom-
petent officer sent back from the front to
Avhere he could do least harm. Even now it
is far from obsolete. Yet only a few weeks
ago an Australian resident in Rhodesia wrote
to me that he had more than once encountered
the Avord in The Bulletin and wondered
what it meant. H'e had a mate, he added,
a South African, who had been educated at
Stellenbosch, and that mate couldn’t say
Avhat it meant, either. And that in the land
which gave it to the English vocabulary!
* * *
“Larool”: The clerical dog-collar, the
origin of which puzzles “Thormanby” (B.
7/12/’32), is merely a survival of the white
stock. This last is
seen nowadays only
in the hunting
fields of the Old
Country, but 100
years ago every
gentleman wore it.
What used to be
the ends of the
stock survive in the
barrister’s bands.
Parsons have
merely clung to
that part of the
stock which goes
round the neck; in
course of time it
was found more
convenient to have
this starched, and
so it became a
collar. But the
neck part of a stock
fastens at the back,
so the cleric’s collar
is made in the
same way.
COMES AND GOES.
“Has your granny gone grey yet?”
“Oh yes. Lots of times.”
“Deaf Burke” : A Queensland Opposition-
ist smote a Ministerialist in the eye the
other day for telling him he had a filthy
mind, and Avas suspended. The Premier said
it was the most regrettable occurrence he had
ever seen in Parliament. Still these things
are bound to happen occasionally; there was
a much more willing scrap on the floor of
the House of Commons in 1893, and it is on
record that one N.S.W. lawmaker once bit
off portion of another’s ear in the pre-
cincts of the House. So much damage as
that is rare, however, the combatants being
generally dragged apart after a tap or two.
And if Parliament stands too loftily on its
dignity the public is more apt to be amused
than impressed. A year or two before
Federation two members got into holts and
exchanged punches in the refreshment-room
of the Westralian Assembly. A pressman
Avired a brief mention of the encounter to
the goldfields newspaper he was representing.
For his action he was expelled from the gal-
lery, .and the proprietor and editor of the
journal were called to the bar of the House
and reprimanded. The editor in question
is now President of the Leg. Council, and
the journalist who was warned off the gal-
lery is a Commonwealth Senator.
“Bloggs”: Nowhere throughout the length
and breadth of N. S. Wales are the traffic
regulations broken so openly and so often
as in the neighborhood of the Chief Justice’s
house. On a lamp-post at his scarlet front
door hangs an inscription, “No parking in
this vicinity” ; yet every day dnd all day cars
are parked near by, and on dozens of occa-
sions I have had difficulty in steering my
’bus between the two lines of vehicles of
all sorts, and sizes extending for a hundred
yards or so to the north and south of the
inhibition. Far be it from me to decry
parking. If half the “No Parking” notices
that the police distribute about the city were
dumped outside the Heads it would be
pleasanter for everybody. The remainder
might be put where they would be useful.
To get back to the Potts Point area, the
peak hours (evening) nearly always find one
or more cars parked between the pavement
near the King’s Cross cinema and a
stationary tram, with a line of patient
drivers waiting for the tram to move. No
one seems to think that the cars ought to
moA 7 e in that part of the world. If the traffic
authorities wanted to do the community a
service they might shift the notice outside
the G.J.’s door to a King’s Cross lamp-post.
The change would have the additional advan-
tage of “saving face” as regards authority.
It seems all wrong that the police should
be habitually defied at the very doorstep ,of
the principal legal officer of the State.
“Kip” : These alfresco two-up schools upon
which the police are liable to burst from
ambush (B. 14/12/’32) seem to make a poor
choice of their stamping grounds. The best-
protected establishment of this kind I ever
saw was at Parkeston, near Kalgoorlie, where
operations were carried out in the centre of
a large, bare flat, from which it was possible
to see a mile or two in any direction. Here
the expert “headers” of the Golden Mile and
parts, adjacent Avould gather every Sunday to
indulge in their favorite pastime. No police
could have crept on them, except possibly
under cover of a goldfields dust-storm, and
a dust-storm would have rendered play im-
possible. Not that the police ever bothered
much about two-up on the goldfields outside
of the main thoroughfares. Two or three
citizens who afterwards rose to considerable
eminence in the State Legislature were
notable proficients at the game.
“X.S.” : An act of reverence led to £6BO
workmen’s compensation being awarded to a
AvidoAV in Melbourne recently. Husband was
an undertaker who stood Avith head uncovered
by a graA 7 eside in the rain, caught a cold,
developed pneumonia and died. The bench
held that the deceased died as a result of
injuries received through the nature of his
employment, since other men, working in
the rain, could keep their hats on.
❖ ❖ ❖ $
“Lao-dah”: I got a thrill out of the
news that a stowaway had been found
aboard Plans Bertram’s ’plane between
Bima and Sourabaya. A few years
ago a story (by me) appeared in The
Bulletin recounting how a volcanic erup-
tion visited an island which might have
been Bima—anyway, it was in the same
locality. The local witchdoctor is blamed
for the catastrophe, and vengeance is about
to. be visited on him, when a hydroplane
alights in a bay Avhere the population is
being crowded into the ocean by the flowing
lava. The natives think the machine is a
magical bird, but the witchdoctor knows
better, haA r ing been educating himself from
an encyclopaedia he picked up in Sourabaya.
He paddles over to the visitor, and just as
it is leaA 7 ing the water he scrambles on to
a wing and is carried to Darwin. It would
require considerable courage for a native of
those parts to stoAv away on a flying machine
even to-day, but it occurred to me that Bert-
ram’s uninvited guest might have been
anxious to escape an eruption of creditors.
And then the East Indian of my imagina-
tion turns out to be plain “John Dodson,
aged 20, born in Tasmania.”
* * * *
“Mudurup”: Couples are generally re-
garded as being legally married in any coun-
try if their union would be considered legal
in their own, but a new method of entering
the matrimonial state was sprung on a Perth
magistrate the other day when a Chinese
Avoman sued her husband for maintenance.
She was married, she said, in Perth 25 years
ago, the ceremony consisting simply of a
dinner at which about a hundred "of her
countrymen and countrywomen attended.
By Chinese custom, it Avas argued, this Avas
all that Avas necessary, especially in a
place where there was no priest or anyone
who could perform a religious ceremony,
but the beak looked dubious. “Sitting down
and having dinner seems a strange way to
get married,” he commented, and adjourned
the case, possibly to consult Chinese authori-
ties. Still, there are stranger ways than
that. Jumping over a broomstick was sup-
posed to be all that was needed in the case
of a gipsy couple, though I don’t know if
this still holds good.
* =s * *
“Spare Warlock” : These old beliefs die hard.
The other day a cable in a Sydney paper
recounted how a loaf of bread loaded with
quicksilver located the body of a gild
drowned in an English river. The loaded
loaf is supposed to stop over the drowned
person; Avhat it does, of course, is to
follow the current that is driving the body
downstream. In this case the body was
caught in a reed bed and the cui’rent had
hung the loaf up in the adjacent reeds.
Readers of “Huckleberry Finn” will remem-
ber a reference to the superstition on the
Mississippi. Another old belief mentioned
in the same book was the alleged efficacy
of firing cannon over the water. Possibly
the concussion sometimes brought the in-
flated body to the sur-face, but there has
never been any proof of it.
* * * *
“Ford Warden”: The decision of the
London and South-eastern Railway to build
three great ferries to take trains from Eng-
lish rails to French, from Dover to
Dunkirk and back, suggests that the
Channel tunnel scheme has been dropped
for good. In addition to passengers in the
trains, a limited number of boat travellers
and cargo will be carried. The service is
expected to open in 1934, and sleeping-car
passengers, it is claimed, will be able to go
to bed at one end of the journey and wake
from refreshing slumber at their destination.
A wondrous change must have come over the
Customs authorities in both countries if that
is to be taken as correct.
$ * $ *
“Uramao”: Touching the evening paper’s
careless habit of “illustrating” news with
the handiest block that seems to haA 7 e any
relevance (B. 25/11/’32), when the Euchar-
istic Congress was on one journal presented
its readers with-a fine view of St. Patrick’s
Cathedral, Dublin, plus the information that
“around this edifice the great ceremonies
centred.” St. Patrick's is Protestant.
$ ❖ ❖ $
“Bat”: “Exile” (B. 14/12/’32) notes that
the accents of the Australian and English
war nurses differed. It is difficult to nail
down any one accent, especially in England,
where every part of the kingdom has its
OAvn flaArnr. I doubt, too, if public school
and university polish can wipe out certain
tricks of pronunciation acquired in infancy.
Some time ago I introduced a Cornish friend
to an acquaintance avlio had been educated
at a famous public school and at Oxford.
When he had passed on the “Oarnisher”
•said “I’ll bet he’s a Westcountryman.” He
was, too, though to me there was nothing in
his accent to indicate it.
* * * #
“C.Q.”: There is a lot of false sentiment
about the passion some people have for
scrapping the names the pioneers gave to
localities in this country and replacing them
with aboriginal monnikers. The pioneers
named places after their own home towns
or people abroad; sometimes their own
names became attached to the clearings they
carved out of the Avilderness. The persons
who sponsor the abo. name are usually
possessors of dictionaries compiled by some-
body now dead and gone who misspelt the
sounds Binghi made and misunderstood the
meanings he ascribed to them. It is pro-
posed to call North Essendon (Vic.),
which has an aerodrome, after Hendon
(Eng.), which also has an aerodrome,
and this is both unimaginative and con-
fusing. But to call it Warrimoo, which is
another suggestion, because Warrimoo
allegedly means “eaglehawk gliding to a flat
plain” in some forgotten abo. dialect is
merely academic preciosity. To cqll it
Hinkler, or even Amy Johnson. Avould be
more appropriate, because it Avould recall
a definite historical association.
TO A MISSING EYEBROW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The golden-age lover Avith furnace-like sigh,
Who sang of Belinda or Chloris or Prue,
And the charm of her hazel or dancing grey
eye,
Or that melting, compelling soft organ of
blue,
Would be puzzled to-day, I fancy, don’t
you ?
Though there still may be eyelashes pearled
Avith a tear
And lids that will quiver a second or two,
Where, where are the brows of yesteryear?
Some fashion god orders —Lord only knoAvs
why!
Another approves of it—no matter who.
Beauty doctors come next with their artifice
sly,
And eyebrows at once are outrti and taboo.
Like geese you have suffered the plucking,
it’s true;
O girls, this obsession for smartness is queer :
It makes pretty faces like eggs to the view.
Oh, where are the brows of yesteryear?
The brow-play of old one couldn’t deny.
Some shot - pretty curves, effecting a coup
As they signalled “Well met!” or invited
“Come nigh.”
Others said plainly “Please don't!” or
“Please do !”
But blonde, black or auburn, their tribute
they drew.
Now a pencil line faint on a bony ridge drear
Inspireth no sonnet or lyrical brew ;
Ah, where are the brows of yesteryear?
S.A.
BILL O’C.


'tSiPX'rsS'"'
kfiSP
m
m
s a
K ~.
mit
S. i :
i®s
V. •■
The SHELL Company, Ltd.
FOR
INSTANT STARTING
INSTANT ACCELERATION
SUSTAINED POWER
GREATER MILEAGE
SHELL
IS BETTER
S. 1366
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Just-dead Joseph Carrutliers and Alec
Peacock were among the youngsters of the
Federal Convention in the ’nineties. Even
now nobody thinks of: the Vic. Speaker as
very old. Yet he was the senior member ot
liis State’s Assembly as far back as 12 years
ago.
All Victorian State schools closed on
the day Martin Peter Hansen, second
Director of Education, was laid to rest in
Kew Cemetery. Scotch College got in first
with its tribute; the whole school lined the
route as the cortSge passed the college, which
skirts Glenferrie-rbad. Hansen was an old
boy of the school. Descendant of a Dane
(liis dad, a nonagenarian farmer, survives
at Heathcote), he had worked his way right
up through the department, and there was
no harder battler for teachers. The 10 years
he spent at Wesley as offsider to Adamson
were in some sense a rehearsal for the 23
years’ service for the State that followed.
Brigadier-General Heritage, Australia’s
new Quartermaster-General, is a Tasmanian
who first smelt powder in- South Africa with
the Tassy M.I. He was senior staff officer
to the expedition to German New Guinea
in 1914, and was in France by 1917, where
he served with the General Staff, transfer-
ring later to Australian lI.Q. as Director
of Military Training and Personnel. After
a term as Commandant in Westralia he
became Commandant at Duntroon. In
earlier days he had a very notable influence
on training in the use of the rifle.
Francois Rene, who is to get a present
from the Maroubra-Kensington Diggers on
his 91st birthday, is a warrior whose experi-
ences go back to the ’fifties. Born
at Brest, he served in the French navy
as flag boy during the Crimean War.
With the Marines he later fought in
Mexico under the hapless Emperor Maxi-
milian. In Europe again, he saw service under
the Italian flag in the war with Austria and
was at Solferino and Magenta. He topped
off by serving for the duration in the Franco-
Prussian war. Mustered out of the service
in 1879, Rene came that year to Australia
and has been here ever since.
Whoever was the youngest soldier to join
up in the war years—a question never likely
to be settled —there is little doubt that Joe
Houston was the youngest to win a decora-
tion. Houston enlisted at 15 in an English
regiment and gathered the M.M. for bravery
at Flers when scarcely 17. He came to
Australia after the war as a physical-culture
expert and ultimately became S.M. of the
54th Battalion. He was only 33 when he
died the other day.
Sydney’s New Lord Mayor HAGON.
John Henry Starling, who succeeds J. G.
McLaren as head of the Prime Minister s
Department, finds himself at the top while
still oh the right side of 50. Entering the
service as a youth he has become successively
chief clerk in the Prime Minister’s Depart-
ment, official secretary to the Governor-
General and secretary of the Federal Execu-
tive Council. His only vice is golf.
Vic. Public Service Commissioner is look-
ing round for a successor to M. P.
Hansen, who reigned for four years—his pre-
decessor, Frank Tate, put. in 26 years. The
departmental head next in the running is
Mcßae, Chief Inspector of. Primaries, but
he is four years off the retiring age. It a
young man is decided on, G. S. Browne, yice-
princlpal of the Teachers’ Training College
looks like a possible. Browne i 5,42 and
a brilliant speaker with a gift of humor.
He saw war service. It was he who ini-
tiated a questionnaire amongst Vic. school
children to discover who was their most
popular character in fiction, drama, history,
etc The results were somewhat startling
and justified the comment of a witty French-
man, who called Vic. education “State School
plus State Theatre.”
In Lawrence Adamson Australia has lost
a great citizen, and Wesley College, Mel-
bourne ■ a headmaster who was to Wesley
what Dr. Arnold was to Rugby. Adam-
son spent five years at Rugby—he was
in the same house, though there were a
dozen years between them, as P. F. Warner.
But the distinctions the former won were
almost entirely
scholastic; he was
never much of an
athlete, and few. of
his contemporaries
would have fea-
tured him as first
chairman of the
Australian Board
of Cricket Control
and president of
the Vic. Amateur
Football Associa-
tion. But as one
who was to make
education his life’s
work, he was quick
to see what a big
part field sports as
well as study must
play in the train-
ing of youth. He
had the highest
ideals and was con-
stant to them, as
the tributes over
his grave amply
testify. And, being
a compara-
tively wealthy man
as well as a single-
minded enthusiast,
he was able to
L. A. ADAMSON,
the beloved “Dicky”
of Wesley (Mel-
bourne).
make generous
benefactions to the school to which most
of his 'life’s work had been- dedicated.
Lawrence Adamson was born in the Isle
of Man in 1S60; liis father was a Northum-
berland landowner.
Melbourne has lost another David Syme,
a prominent figure in the shipping world.
Born in Ireland 88 years ago, he came to
Sydney in 1863 and ten years later settled
in Melbourne as manager of a floating dock
at Williamstown. Then he helped, to found
the Melbourne Steamship Co., with which
he was associated for nearly 60 years, 21
of them as chairman of directors —a posi-
tion now held by his son, David York Syme,
jun., who was Deputy-Controller- of Ship-
ping during the war years. The elder Syme,
who was noted for his philanthropic activi-
ties, married a sister of George Houston
Reid.
Cuthbert Burgoyne, managing director of
P. B. Burgoyne and Co. —the firm founded
by his father was the first to place Aus-
tralian wines on the English market—is on
a business visit to this country. JEi*e says
that while Australia has produced some ex-
cellent wines, including a few which “could
take their place with the finest in Europe,”
it can hardly expect to become a leading
wine-producing country until it aims at
producing aristocratic types as distinct from
commonplace ones. Incidentally, Burgoyne
dates the Australian wine industry from
1832, the original cuttings having (he says)
been brought from Europe by James Busby,
manager for William Macarthur.
Arthur Mason, the newly-appointed Lon-
don representative of the Australian Broad-
casting Commission, who will decide what
music, plays and sketches are best suited
for transmission to this country, is a man
of varied attainments. At the beginning of
the century he was a N.S.W. civil servant.
He resigned his job to become Sydney’s city
organist. After his fingers had wandered
over the grand old keys for six years, he
turned to journalism, first as London cor-
respondent of a Sydney daily. Later he re-
turned to Sydney, but the call of Fleet-street
was too strong, and he crossed the sea again.
Obviously he has plenty of equipment for
his new job.
Dr. Spence, R.C. Archbishop of Adelaide
since 1915, is about to celebrate the jubilee
of his ordination as a priest. Dr. Spence
was born in Cork close on 73 years ago,
entered the Dominican order and completed
his theological course in Lisbon. After a
dozen years in Cork, Newry and Kilkenny
he was selected as the first Prior of the first
Dominican foundation in the Commonwealth,
at North Adelaide. Here he was parish
priest for many years before his consecra-
tion as Coadjutor-Bishop of Adelaide in
1914. H’e succeeded the late Dr. O’Reily as
Archbishop a year later.
The Rev. Joshua Hargrave, passed out at
86, was a son of Richard Hargrave, a mem-
ber of the first N.S.W. Parliament. Joshua,
who was one of the oldest old boys present
at the recent King’s School centenary cele-
brations, was ordained in 1876 and to
found the Sydney Ragged School, of which
he was a trustee until his death. The
Australian aborigines were another of his
interests: he was an authority on tribal
customs. Lawrence Hargrave, of aero-
nautical fame; was a cousin.
Tom Mann, whose latest job is treasurer
of the Unemployed Workers, has added to
his numerous records by going to gaol at 76
for disturbing the peace and inciting demon-
strations. Tom isn’t unknown in Australia ;
he was last in these parts about 1904, when
he fraternised with many Labor leaders of
the period. His name was made as a militant
trades-unionist long before any of the Par-
liamentary Labor champions of to-day were
heard of, though all of his attempts to
become M.P. were unsuccessful.
Among those at the departmental fare-
well to Prof. L. F. Giblin at Canberra was
the new Commonwealth Statistician, E. T.
McPhee. McPhee has spent 26 years in
the Bureau, and has been closely associated
with such statistical lights as R. M. John-
ston, of Tasmania, George Knibbs, the first
Commonwealth Statist, and C. H. Wickens.
Edouard Ilerriot, the French Premier who
has lost his job because he refused to
acquiesce in straight-out default on war
debts is, like the late Woodrow Wilson, a
professor who turned politician. But
whereas Wilson was a professor of law, Iler-
riot was a professor of rhetoric, and he left
his academic job much earlier in life. Before
he entered Parliament 20 years ago Ilerriot
had won to prominence as Mayor of Lyons;
he was first elected in 1905 and he has been
re-elected every year since. He had his first
taste of the Premiership in 1924 and his
second (which only lasted two days) in
1926, when the flight from the franc was at
its worst. He is just 60.
Death has cut off four Vic. State heads
of departments in the last two years— ■
Mclver (Lands), Heathershaw (Chief
Sec.’s), Cattanach (Water) and now
Hansen (Education). It will be necessary
to appoint a successor not only to Hansen
but to Stevens, Sec. for Labor, and Crowe,
Director of Agriculture, who have reached
the retiring age and were given slight exten-
sions.
John James Breen, just dead at 82, was
a native of Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) and one
of the last men to be paid off by Cobb and
Co. He drove their coaches between Goul-
burn and Cooma, and about the only time
he was late was when he tackled the Molon-
gl 0 in floodtime. He escaped with liis own
life, but his team was drowned and his coach
lost.
Mrs. Keturah Hurst, who has passed away
at North Wagga (N.S.W.), was the daughter
of Henry Angel. In 1824 Angel was a mem-
ber’ of the Hume and Ilovell expedition
which traversed the unknown country be-
tween Sydney and Hobson’s Bay. A powerful
swimmer, his services were of great benefit
to the explorers in crossing streams, and he
is said to have been the first white man to
swim the Murray. Both father and daughter
lived to be 91.
A. M. Bickford and Sons, of Adelaide,
date from the time when the chemists were
also the soda-water makers. The first Bick-
ford had two sons in the business, which pre-
sently devoted itself exclusively to wholesale
druggery; and of these two Harry was in
his day one of the most dashing riders of
HAROLD BICKFORD ( S.A. ).
the Hunt Club. To-day Harold, who belongs
to the third generation, is chairman of the
old firm, which long ago became a limited
liability co., and carries on also the other
part of the family tradition. He has been
a judge at race meetings for many years in
S. Aus., and was “King of Racing” in a
recent charity drive.
M. P. Hynes, Labor and Industry in the
Queensland Ministry, reached Cabinet rank
after waiting 10 years on the back-benches.
He represents Townsville, which he took
from W. 11. Green in 1922; he has held it
ever since with comfortable majorities—last
June he scored almost three-quarters of the
votes polled. His mother was the first white
child born in the Mackay district, where he,
too, reached earth 45 years ago. In his early
M. P. HYNES, Minister for Labor and
Industry (Q.).
years Hynes did all kinds of jobs; finally be
got into the sugar industry, with which he
is still connected. Ilis apprenticeship to a
political career was served in the trade union.
The Sugar Workers and the A.W.A. counted
him one of their'most energetic members, and
when the A.W.A. linked up with the A.W.U.
he became an organiser for the latter body.
He still is a vice-president of the A.W.U.
Brigadier-General Charley Brand who has
just retired from the job of Q.M.G., is a
Queenslander who first earned a crust as
a school-teacher. A subaltern in the State
Mounted Infantry, he went to South Africa
with the third Q.M.I. and on his return
joined the C.M.F. He landed on Gallipoli as
a Brigade Major and did some distinguished
work there. In France he commanded the
4th Infantry Brigade and for a time the 4th
Division. Returning to Australia he served
in most of the higher staff positions, ending
with that from which he has had to retire
because he is rising 60.
A reminder of the late Fergus Hume’s
association with Maoriland was furnished
when the fiftieth anniversary of the estab-
lishment of Ashburn Hall, a private mental
institution, was commemorated at Dunedin
last month. Ashburn Hall was founded by
James Hume, father of the novelist. Mrs.
Willeby, a daughter of the founder, was
present at the celebration.
“Croweater”: I was interested in
“H.A.L.’s” confirmation (B. 23/11/’32) of
my statement that the old bent tree at
Glcnelg was not the site of the proclama-
tion of South Australia because he quoted
my great-aunt, Mrs. Mantegani, as a witness.
The last I heard of the old lady was a cheer
from one of her relatives because she had
just paid her first visit to a movie and
enjoyed it without the aid of spectacles.
She was then over 90.
Newport (Vic.) claims a centenarian in
Albert Norton, born in Stepney (London)
in 1830. In, his young days he was a ship’s
carpenter, and helped to build the historic
Great Eastern—which cost three-quarters of
a million and took nearly three months to
launch —at Millwall in the ’fifties. The
huge craft proved very little use for any-
thing except laying Atlantic cables.
Colonel Mansbridge, R. M. at Broome
(W.A.), probably uses the aeroplane more
than any other magistrate. His district is from
Broome to Wyndham, over 900 air miles,
and he has made the journey by ’plane four
times this year. Mansbridge is an old
public servant who took up volunteering in
the pre-war days, and was in the landing
at Gallipoli as major of the 16th Batt. He
was born at Chester (Eng.) 60 years ago.
Colonel J. D. Laverack. who takes over
the command of the Royal Military College
on the promotion of Brigadier-General Heri-
tage, began as an Australian garrison gunner
subaltern in 1905, being transferred to the
Staff Corps in 1920. He Served with the
B.E.F. from 1914 to 1018 and later joined
up with the Australian forces. He was sent
from Australia in 1928 to attend the Imperial
Defence College in London.
“To the memory of Ross Smith” was
a toast at the Queen’s (Adelaide) old-
boys’ dinner, held on the 11th anniversary
of the landing of Ross and Keith at Darwin.
It was proposed by Lance Pellew, the
cricketer, who was at school and also
at the war with the brothers.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
9j
THE
ê
PIONEER BELTING
Gives Greater Pulley Grip.
DECAUSE Pioneer Leather Belting gives greater
pulley grip, it insures maximum efficiency cm
the largest ratios. Pioneer Belting also has up to
six times greater wearing qualities under all work-
ing conditions. There is a special waterproof Pioneer
Belt to suit each type of drive. Expert advice
without obligation.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
Made and guaranteed since 1858 by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON
LIMITED
117 York Street, Sydney, and 20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
AGENTS:
QUEENSLAND: HOEY FRY, LTD., 170 EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: J. McKELL & SONS, 129 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: MR. HORACE SUMMERS, 9-11 HOWARD STREET, PERTH.
TASMANIA: CHAS. DAVIS, LTD., 60 ELIZABETH STREET, HOBART.
NEW ZEALAND: G. W. ARNOLD, LTD., A.M.P. CHAMBERS, WELLINGTON.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Southern Cross Assurance
This young life office was promoted by
Thomas Confoy in 1921. He got £12,500
in 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and £lOOO cash, an I
became managing director: —
Ordinary Branch.
Excess
Outgoings. Deficit.
£ £
Promoter’s consideration .. 13,500 13,500
Other establishment charges .. 38,189 51,689
New share premiums, £31,250.. .. 20,439
Aug., Income. Claims. Expenses.
£ £ £
1922*.. 56,726 1,357 87,749 32,380 52,819
Additional establishment charges 10,000 62,819
1923 .. 87,076 5,437 92,173 10,634 73,353
S’African business purchased, £3OOO .. 76,353
Surplus
June, 1 Income.
1924 L. 96,060 4,399 91,302 359 75,994
1925 .. 139,778 8,848 110,773 20,157 65,837
1926 .. 180,038 18,781 122,688 38,569 17,268
1927 .. 167,379 18,671 123,260 25,448 8,180
1928 .. 183,736 19,475 128,187 36,074 44,254
1929 .. 208,341 33,716 131,785 42,840 87,094
New Era Co.’s business bought.
Added funds, £28,314 115,408
Added purchase account, £20,068 .. 95,340
1930 .. 223,797 29,911 136,624 57,262 152,602
Australian Group Co.’s business bought.
Added funds, £27,003 179,605
Added purchase account, £13,925 .. 165,680
1931 .. 221,139 40,599 113,733 66,807 232,487
Written off shares, etc., £11,138 .. 221,349
Added establishment account, £lO .. 221,339
1932 . . 195,736 61,389 91,499 42,848 264,187
Written off shares, etc. £11,517 .. 252,670
*l9 months. +lO months.
This is the most vigorous of the post-war
litter of life offices. From the start the
aim was large business, and that made the
fight expensive. Of the £300,000 of capital
£265,736 was represented by intangibles
at June 30. These included £17,070 paid
for what remained of the New Era’s busi-
ness (heavy lapses and excessive costs had
crippled it), and £13,925 for the small life
business of the Australian Group and
General. The management, however, is now
putting forward strenuous efforts to pull the
business round the corner, and its prospects
are encouraging, though it is far too early
yet to even mention bonuses.
At the close of accounts in 1926,
net tangibles, including premiums paid in
advance, exceeded liabilities under policies by
£127,380; at June 30, 1931, the excess was
£42,162. Over the same period in the Ordinary
department £1,004,392 was gathered in net
premiums, interest, etc. Claims and exes,
took £752,954, while £37,142 was written
off the book value of the assets (chiefly
shares in other cos. and motor-cars). That
left £214,296 to be added to the Life fund,
which was increased by a further £55,317
on account of the net tangibles that came
over with the two businesses purchased, and
by £21,773 charged to establishment in 1927.
Still, when the books closed in ’3l, the
fund (£447,874) was £32,114 short of the
mark; so that amount was “transferred from
establishment account.” During the quin-
quennium, the growth of liabilities under
policies therefore exceeded the growth of the
fund composed of revenue and net assets
transferred by £53,887.
Nevertheless, operations for the year to
June 30, 1931, showed a profit, the manage-
ment says, “but the surplus was not suffi-
cient to wipe out the accumulated deficits
of previous years, and certainly not large
enough to distribute as bonuses and divi-
dends.” Indeed, dividends are not in sight,
and bonuses will depend largely upon further
reductions in costs. With this end in view
the co. budgeted for a million of new busi-
ness last year;—
1930. 1931. 1932.
Proposals accepted 7,737 5,320 3,810
Total of policies.. £2,112,311 £1,523,700 £1,039.033
First premiums .. 58,954 44,910 30,477
Renewal premiums 147,537 156,922 147,020
Interest, rent, etc. 17,306 19,307 18,239
Total income .. 223,797 221,139 195,736
Excluding interest payments (£3152) and
£11,517 written off the book value of assets,
exes, made off with 43.2 p.c. of last year’s net
premiums as against 60.1 p.c. two years
earlier. Taking exes, on the same basis,
the year’s first premiums were gathered
at a cost of 195 p.c. as against 174 p.c. and
168 p.c. for the two preceding terms; that
is assuming that new business is 10 times
more expensive than old. The spring is due
partly to the growth in lapses, etc. (£27,574
last year as against £18,227 in 1931).
While exes, are making off with less of
the net premiums, and the mortality experi-
ence is very favorable (only 51.6 p.c. of
expectation for the year to June 30), funds
turned in only a shade over 3.7 p.c. for the
three years to the close of accounts in 1931,
whereas the co. assumes that they will earn
4 p.c. The low return is due to legislative
cuts in interest and rents, and the growth
in taxation. Funds are invested in this
way:—
IQ9fi IQQI IQQO
Freeholds .. .. £161,370 £199,823 £211,179
Equipment .. .. 17,028 24,285 22,915
Govt, securities .. 109,530 138,090 138,770
Mortgages, etc. .. 14,400 76,174 54,377
Loans on policies .. 764 22,194 30,965
Shares other, cos., etc. 10,100 13,885 31,682
Book debts .. .. 64,686 90,334 89,560
Cash 1,224 12,987 7,823
Tangible assets . . £379,102 £577,772 £587,271
Liabilities* .. . . 91,673 55,622 30,261
Net tangible assets .. £287,429 £522,150 £557,010
*Other than under policies.
There was an improvement of £34,860 in
the net tangible position last year. The
improvement will be more marked when
the need to write down the book value of
some of the assets ceases. The capital is in
10s. shares—l2s.ooo 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and
475,000 ords.
Swan Brewery (Perth)
Dividends and
f —Dividend Tax —Writ-
Pref. ten Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar.,’25.. 44,736 1500 16 p.c. =24,655 326/748
Sept.,’2s.. 23,360 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 425 323,528
Mar., ’26.. 46,391 1500 16 „ „ 24,655 10,182 333,582
Sept.,’26.. 28,112 1500 16 ~ ~ 24,655 10,076 325,463
Profit on sale of assets, £13,720 .. 339,183
Castlemaine Brewery purchased.
Additions to reserves, £65,846 .. 405,029
Mar.,’27.. 48,871 1500 16 p.c. =26,754 425,646
Sept.,’27.. 49,990 1500 16 „ „ 27,905 14,000 432,231
Premiums on new shares, £14,957.. 447,188
Emu Brewery’ purchased.
Additions to reserves, £58,933 .. 506,121
Mar.,’2B.. 61,406 1500 20 p.c. =42,531 523,496
Sept.,’2B.. 63,511 1500 20 „,, 42,545 542,96*2
Mar.,’29.. 63,891 1500 20 ~,,42,545 562,808
Sept.,’29.. 48,761 1500 20 „ „ 42,545 567,524
Mar.,’3o.. 67.910 1500 20 „,, 42,545 591,389
Sept.,’3o.. 50,277 1500 16 *„ „ 34,036 606,130
Mar., ’31.. 40,580 1500 16 „ „ 34,036 —■ 611,174
Sept.,’3l.. 29,349 1500 12 „,, 25,527 613,496
Mar.,’32.. 45,892 1500 16 „ ~34,036 623,852
Sept.,’32.. 37,557 1500 12 „ „ 25,527 634,382
This co. has a firm hold on the trade in the
West—has had it ever since the discoveries
of Ford and Bayley started the first rush
of thirsty people to Coolgardie towards the
close of 1892. For nearly 20 years after-
wards Swan’s divs. ranged from 24 p.c. to
32 p.c. Upon the transfer of £101,450 from
reserves to capital, the rate dropped to 16
p.c. in 1911; it remained steady, sweetened
with 4 p.c. bonuses in the fattest periods,
until September of last year, when 12 p.c.
was paid, followed by 16 p.c. and 12 , p.c.
again for the last half, which does not in-
clude the thirsty summer months.
Though the outlook on the goldfields is
brighter than it has been for many years,
there lias been a shrinkage in turnovcV else-
where, and extra Government demands have
made off with a large slice of the takings.
For the 12 months to the close of last
accounts gross earnings (£193,341) fell away
£15,661, making the slip £102,520 over the
last four years. But exes. (£118,366) were
£29,399 lighter; thus, after allowing for the
pref. div. and reserve adjustments, enough
remained to show 18.9 p.c. on the £425,454 of
ord. capital, compared with 15.7, 27.4, 25.8,
28.6 and 23.7 p.c. back to 1927.
The market, impressed by the co.’s attrac-
tive performances and its snug position, has
lengthened its bid for the 255. paid ords.
from 555. to 695. 6d. over the last half-dozen
months. The return at 695. 6d. is 5 p.c. on
a 14 p.c. div. basis. To pay the pref. div.
and 14 p.c. to the ords., shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) need earn
only 5.6 p.c. net.
The co. has never made a habit of keeping
much idle cash about: —
Sept.,’2s. Sept.,’3l. Sept.,’32.
Capital .. .. £358,190 £475,454 £475,454
Accounts in credit, etc.* 47,211 113,769 85,517
Other liabilities .. 80,939 67,991 54,001
Freehold and plant .. 663,051 986,333 959,071
Mortgages .. .. 51,988 48,796 39,710
Stocks 62,111 61,736 50,234
Shares in other cos. .. 6,897 111,722 111,722
Book debts .. .. 49,722 53,732 65,817
Cash, etc 2,255 35,418 50,827
*lneludes goodwill accruing.
Since 1925 £347,165 of surplus earnings has
been invested in hotel properties, which
turned in rents equal to 8.1 p.c. on their
written down book value last year. Over
the same period £204,570 was spent on the
brewery and plant and charged to capital,
and £213,494 was visibly written off out of
earnings. The inclusion of an unspecified
amount of “goodwills accruing” with liabili-
ties obscures the real financial position; but
there is nothing to worry about in this
respect.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1922.. 12,632 10 p.c. = ■ 7500 5,132 17,105
1923.. 17,736 10 „ „ 7500 10,236 27,341
1924.. 14,123 10 „ „ 7500 6,623 33,964
1925.. 14,307 125,, „ 9375 4,932 38,896
1926.. 13,913 125,, „ 9375 4,538 43,434
1927.. 12,980 12$ „ „ 9375 3,605 47,039
Brisbane preliminary exes., £6lO 46,429
1928.. 11,376 12$ p.c. = 9375 2,001 48,430
Reserves capitalised, £12,500 .. 35,930
Premiums on new shares, £60.. 35,990
1929.. 10,437 10 p.c. = 7710 2,727 38,717
1930.. 3,106 Nil 3,106 41,823
1931.. 3,640 4 p.c. = 4000 41,463
1932.. 6,728 5 „ „ 5000 1,728 43,191
Though cash registers had largely taken the
place of counter-sales books, a specialty of
this co.’s factories, the cash-slip system re-
mained in most of the big stores; and that
helped Lamson Paragon to pay a regular 10
p;c. div. —a 2$ p.c. bonus was added when
things were going extra well —during the
dozen years to the close of accounts in 1929.
But with the dulness in trade there has
been far less shopping and, consequently,
fewer of the co.’s dockets and other commer-
cial stationery, etc., have been sold. More-
over, the Brisbane branch had been losing
money, arid in 1928 £12,500 had been trans-
ferred from reserves to capital to pay 10s,
on each of 25,000 new £1 shares. The 1930
profit fell to less than one-third of the ’29
figure, and for the first time shareholders
were passed by.
During the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts retailers generally reported better
business, the Brisbane branch was put on a
more secure footing and 'costs were reduced.
Gross earnings (£32,545) were £2516 better,
while exes. (£25,695) were a trifle lighter.
The net result was 6.7 p.c. on capital as
against 3.6, 3.1, 13.5, 15.1 and 17.3 p.c. back
to 1927. and a point was added to the div.,
raising it to 5 p.c. Further improvement in
the figures will depend largely upon the up-
ward trend of retail trade, and upon further
reductions in costs.
With its wide connections, comfortable
finances and valuable patents, of which no
account is taken in the books, the co. is well
equipped to profit by any opportunity that
offers: —
1(109 1Q9(1 IQQI TQQO
Paid capital .. £75,000 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities .. 8,339 13,619 21,931 9,746
Premises ‘ .. 25,426 41,826 41,858 41,87 p
Plant, etc. .. 27,635 .45,074 42,194 39,656
Stock.. .. 18,919 29,701 26,994 31,861
Book debts . . 20,602 24,734 21,813 19,861
Cash and sundries 9,514 1,565 21,955 12,184
Shares in other
cos... .. 13,334 17,500 17,300 17,500
During the year cash, etc., was drawn upon
for £9771, and the debt was reduced by
£12,185. The more or less liquid surplus
(£54,160, including stocks but not shares)
improved £5329. On the £17,500 invested
in the Westralian subsidiary 6 p.c. was
received.
The pound shares, covered by 245. 7d. in
net tangibles, fetch 21s. in the market as
against I.os. a year ago.
Kauri Timber Co.
Written
Aug., Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1922. . 87,044 '8 p.c. = 60,000 19,896 216,650
Contingency fund (£11,084) taken in 227,734
1923.. 102,858" 8 p.c. = 60,000 14,889 255,703
1924.. 104,569 8 „ „ 60,000 15,822 284,450
1925.. 109,459 8 ~ „ 60,000 14,691 319,218
Special depreciation .. 27,861 291,357
1926.. 71,255 8 p.c. = 60,000 13,880 288,732
Special depreciation .. 30,431 258,301
1927.. 45,881 6 p.c. = 45,000 11,560 247,622
Special depreciation .. 10,632 236.990
1928.. 14,669 3 p.c. = 22,500 10,951 218,208
1929.. 31,634 3 „ „ 22,500 10,752 216,590
1930.. 28,939 2$ „ „ 18,750 10,374 216,405
1931.. 1,201 ‘ Nil 11,601 206,005
Loss.
1932.. 14,700 Nil 11,250 180,055
Bond-financed forestry ventures which are
looking for rich returns from the timber
trade will search in vain for anything in-
spiring from this co.’s figures over the last
seven years. Certainly two-fifths of its
£750,000 of capital was handed out as a
gift in the reconstruction of 1919. But the
more general use of reinforced concrete and
competition from imported timbers presently
brought years of sorrow to. the industry.
Since the close of accounts in 1925 share-
holders have averaged only 3.2 p.c., and
reserves have been raided for no less than
£139,363 to pay the meagre distributions and
cover trading and other losses. Weakened
by the prolonged struggle, slump sent many
timber traders to the wall, and the market
became flooded with liquidation stocks, mak-
ing profitable trading by the survivors im-
possible. Thanks, however, to liberal allow-
ance for contingencies during the fat years,
the Kauri Co. has come through so far with-
out jettisoning any of its capital, though it
is probable that some kind of readjustment
will be necessary to ensure satisfactory divs.
in the future.
After taking stocks into account at
£61,116 below the 1931 figure, last year’s
gross earnings (£22,538) fell away £18,158;
exes. (£37,114) were £2307 lighter. Allow-
ing for reserve adjustments, and for depre-
ciation (£11,250, shown as written off in the
table), the loss was £25,1)50, or £lt>,s*>o
more than the previous year’s. ......
Balance-sheet figures suggest the possib .V
of a part return of capital:—
1922 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 161,178 13,275 11,956 27,70 a
Freeholds .. 155,646 98,891 90,479 85,966
Leaseholds .. 133,409 07,79 j *>2,592 ’ „
Plant, etc. .. 162,605 169,196 164,467 142,8a7
Stocks, etc. . . 412,997 226,303 199,371 138,25 a
Book debts .. 116,718 74,218 _54,752 77,233
Shares ■ . 93,166 148,471 148,421 148,428
Investments, ‘
cash, etc. .. 94,072 223,549 267,872 317,/lo
The year’s spring of £15,749 in the trade
debt and the growth of £22,481 m debtors
balances suggest that business was a hit
better towards the close of accounts. Share-
holdings consist largely of scrip in vanikoro
Kauri Timber, formed in ’26 to work a
concession in the Solomons. Excluding this
item, the more or less liquid surplus
(£505,499) was only £4540 lighter. Assuming
that loans and debentures (£315,924) are
readily realisable, and worth their book value,
the co. is in a position to return 7s. 6d. per
share and still have over £35,000 of invest-
ments, cash, etc.
The market notes this and prices the 255.
paid shares at 15s. or thereabouts.
Carlton Hotel, Ltd. (Sydney)
! Dividends Towards Nomi-
Net Pref. Re- nal Re-
Oct., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1921.. 3,139 1600 2$ p.c. = 1500 39 39
1922.. 2,992 1600 Nil 1392 1,431
1923.. 5,111 1600 7 p.c. = 4200 742
1924.. 3,118 1600 Nil 1518 2,260
1925.. 7,631 1600 9 p.c. = 5400 631 2,891
1926.. 9,706 1600 10 „ „ 6000 2106 4,997
1927.. 10,675 1600 10 „ „ 6000 3075 8,072
1928.. 12,006 1600 12$ „ „ 7500 2906 10,978
1929.. 13,172 1600 15 „ „ 9000 2572 13,550
1930.. 5,727 Nil Nil 5727 19,277
Loss.
1931.. 876 Nil Nil 18,401
Profit. „„
1932.. 4,169 Nil Nil 4169 22,570
Although conditions were favorable, results
were disappointing for several years after
the co. was formed in 1920. But the figures
brightened following a change in the control,
and between 1925 and 1931 the div. was
rushed up from 9 p.c. to 15 p.c. During
the 12 months to Oct., 1931, _ £88,601
was added to the outside debt, raising it to
£154,654, or £39,757 in excess of capital and
reserves combined, including £21,347 ear-
marked for depreciation, etc. This extra
money was used to purchase the freehold and
improve the premises. Then the boom burst,
earnings shrank, the weight of the debt made
itself felt, as it always does in such circum-
stances, and no divs. have been paid for the
last three years.
For the year to Oct. last gross earnings
(£35,800) were £6215 better. Exes. (£31.631)
took £1172 of the increase, but left almost
sufficient to wipe out arrears of pref. divs. at
balancing date (£4410). ITowever, the debt
called for reduction; so £12,847 was snipped
off the amount coming to outsiders (now
£141,831), and the book value of the assets
(they are all lumped in one untidy entry at
£267,844) was reduced by £7369.
The £BO,OOO of capital is in 20,000 8 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 60,000 ords. In 1929 the
ords., or all but a handful of them, were
exchanged for scrip (one pref. and two ords.)
in Carlton Investments, Ltd., a holding co.
with a paid capital of' £139,728 in 69,864
fully-paid 7 p.c. prefs. and 139,735 ords.
paid to 10s. each—it also owns the 10,000
ords. in the Eneber Investment Co., which
is interested in hotel properties. So to pay
its own pref. div. (now 2£ years in arrears,
and reduced to 5.4 p.c. by the statutory cut)
and 5 p.c. on its paid-up ordinary capital,
Carlton Investments will need to receive
over 10 p.c. on the face value of its own
holdings. Appearances are that it will be
a struggle to keep up payments to the prefs.
Whether the ords. are likely to be asked
for more depends largely upon whether the
bank is likely to ask for its money in a
hurry from the Carlton Hotel. Large mort-
gages are difficult to arrange these days,
especially in N. S. Wales.
National Insurance Co. of N.Z.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1922.. 52,088 16$ p.c. = 32,500 19,588 470,856
1923.. 64,748 17$ „ ,', 35,000 29,748 500,604
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 400,604
1924.. 33,221 10.8 p.c.= 32,500 721 401,325
1925.. 62,811 10.8 „ „ 32,500 30,311 431,636
1926.. 49,160 10.8 „ „ 32,500 16,660 448,296
1927.. 51,807 124 „ „ 37,500 14,307 462,603
1928.. 58,326 12$ „ „ 37,500 20,826 483,429
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 . . 433,429
1929.. 46,579 10.7 p.c.= 37,500 9,079 442,508
1930.. 51,048 10.7 „ „ 37,500 13,548 456,056
1931.. 34,288 10.7 „ „ 37,500 452,844
1932.. 39,284 10.7 „ „ 37,500 1,784 454,628
In 1931 losses were the heaviest in the
history of this conservative underwriter. Last
year premium income, which fell away
£22,448 in the previous term, slipped a
further £19,572. But it was more rigidly
(Continued on page 16.)


1
V>\w
A
m
i
■
&
■■ j i\
- . l
.l
<4
'■/
iff
mM
%
i
7^«w^
feSrSTj#^
sSI
■ X
r>
X
cC
•■"nr^iy E,^ate
expresM^^
STffifE
£xprjesS
THREE THREES
ARE NINE
FOR SIX PENCE
9 w ©
18 for K- 27{ ot | / 6
Also in Flat Tins of 50 and 100 and
Round Airtight Tins of 50
' r ße kind to smokers, Father
Christmas. Put Three-Threes
at the top of their stockings.
Some want hundreds, some
like fifties, some prefer 27’s
and some are used to 18’s,
but they all want Three-
Threes, because of the
famous Ardath blend, Ardath
tips, and Ardath perfect
triple wrapping. Give them
what they want, Santa
give them Three-Threes/ 7
CORK TIPPED AND PLAIN


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
sjc <!■ Jji V
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney. — Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try LEMPRIERE & CO., Collins House,
Melbourne, when selling Ores, Metals, Scrap, or buy-
ing Refined Tin, Antimony. Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys.— Advt.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. •
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 95
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation,
through *he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the W r orld, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
Your Altered
Financial Position
will probably necessitate your making a new will. If so, appoint
as your Executor and Trustee, Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), a corporate body which has had forty-six years’
experience in the administration of Estates and which can never
die or leave the country. Write or call for free explanatory
Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
R. Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director.
H. V. Douglass, Manager.
YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
brake
LINING
Insist on “RAY BEST OS”—with the Silver
Edge. Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
ë
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
selected and losses were £29,454 lighter, tak-
ing 56.8 p.c. of the premiums compared with
64.4 p.c. in ’3l:
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £82,935 £49,052 £26,560 59.2 p.c. 32.0p.c.
1900.. 102,264 54,991 29,950 63.8 „ 29.4 „
1905.. 107,648 58,996 36,402 54.8 „ 33.8 „
1910.. 126,602 60,682 44,157 47.8 „ 34.9 „
1920.. 196,248 81,208 81,309 41.4 ~ 41.4 „
1925.. 212,116 86,243 93,954 40.7 „ 44.3 „
1927.. 229,225 115,904 92,995 50.6 „ 40.5 „
1928.. 248,809 135,875 87,066 54.6 „ 35.0 „
1929.. 252,869 146,114 89,960 57.8 ~ 35.6 „
1930. . 260,445 146,964 91,591 56.4 „ 35.2 ~
1931.. 237,997 153,356 86,057 64.4 „ 36.2 „
1932.. 218,425 123,902 86,538 56.8 „ 39.7 „
Though practically unchanged in amount,
last year’s exes, ran off with an extra 3.5
p.c. of the premiums. Still, the underwrit-
ing result was a profit of £7085, compared
with a loss of £1416 and a profit of £21,890
in the two preceding years.
To pay the usual div. in 1931, reserves
had to be tapped for £3212. Last term
the co. also felt the pinch of interest-reduc-
tion legislation, both in the Commonwealth
and Maoriland, and the net return from in-
vestments was £4513 lighter at £30,976. In-
cluding £324 dropped into reserves the final
result was £4976 stronger at £39,284, which
was £1784 more than the customary 10.7 p.c.
called for.
Policy-holders have a solid rock to lean
upon ; capital and reserves combined
(£804,628) were equal to 415 p.c. of last
year’s net premium income, whereas 150 p.c.
is usually considered adequate. The pro-
tection was in handy form, too, as these,
figures show : —-
1928. 1931. 1932.
Premises.. .. £149,380 £153,444 £151,477
Mortgages .. 104,751 78,979 79,414
Debentures . . 116,013 104,333 90,219
Govt, securities. . 357,089 430,134 454,415
Branch balances 47,998 41,929 36,754
Cash, etc. .. 98,711 85,084 100,714
Liabilities, including £29,117 set aside for
unpaid losses, figure at £82,531, up £17,304
during the twelvemonth. There is £650,000
of capital uncalled.
The last capitalisation was in 1929, when
Is. per share (£50,000) was taken from
reserves, making the pound shares paid to 7s.
But similar gifts are likely to be fewer and
farther between in the future, unless some-
thing less than a 10.7 p.c. div. is considered
politic in view of the reduction in interest
rates.
Backed by 16s. in net tangibles, the scrip
is at 14s. Od. in Maoriland. The return at
that price is 5.1 p.c. on a 10.7 p.c. div. basis.
Australian Gypsum, Ltd.
To Re- Nominal
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925*. 17,932 5-6thp.c. - 2,445 15,487 15,487
1926.. 1,510 Nil 1,510 16,997
1927.. 13,210 Nil 13,210 30,207
1928.. 15,517 Nil 15,517 45.724
Written off, £5162 . . .. .. 40,562
1929.. 4-475 Nil 4,475 45,037
Tax Reserve, £lOOO-. . .. .. 46,037
Loss.
1930.. 5,732 Nil 40,305
Deficit.
Loss on realisation, £191,174 . . 150,869
1931.. 3,092 Nil 153,961
1932.. 1,168 Nil 155,129
*l3 months’ operations.
This co. hamstrung itself in 1924 by hand-
ing out five shares for every two then held
(goodwill was given a value of £180,324 for
the purpose), and draining its cash resources
to finance extension of a subsidiary’s plant
beyond the requirements of the Common-
wealth and Maoriland combined. Together
with two others in tlie industry it sold its
fixed assets and stock to a new operating
co., Australian Gypsum Products Pty., as
from July 1, 1930.
Australian Gypsum received £200,000 of
the new co.’s scrip, which represented shares
in and advances to subsidiaries (in the
books at £384,691), and some of tlie co.’s
own plant, etc. On paper the loss was
£191,174; actually the hot air pumped into
the assets in 1924 was squeezed out. At
June 30 the only other asset was freehold,
£lOOO. There was £8970 coming to out-
siders, including £3887 of second-mortgage
debentures. First interest payment on
these, due at the end 'of Oct., has been post-
poned for two years, and the date of re-
demption extended for 12 months from Oct.
31. 1933. Subject to intangibles in the sub-
sidiary, the net asset backing per pound of
paid capital (£348,558) was 11s. Id.
The subsidiary, whose, figures are not
broadcast, earned insufficient to pay a div.
last year. Plant capacity is 100,000 tons
p.a. Owing to the dulness in the building
and cement trades, production of gypsum in
S. Ans. fell from 95,613 tons in 1929 to
24,207 tons in 1931. The. co.’s activities
have been extended to Maoriland and Asia;
much depends upon its success or otherwise
in these spheres.
Mt. Lyell lias adopted deep-bole drilling
to test the value of the extensive ore-
bodies of the Comstock and Crown Lyell
leases. The cost of this class of work is
about one-tenth that, of diamond-drilling, and
the time required much less. An ordinary
rock drill is used,' and the probe can be
extended for 3Ooft. horizontally; moreover,
the sludge is an accurate sample of the
material drilled. The method deserves wider
use than it has at present in Australia.
* * * *
The granting of a license to build a dam
across the Kawarau River (M.L.) comes
before the Warden’s Court this month, and
if the verdict is favorable the Amalgamated
Kawarau Co. will get busy. The whole pro-
ject will cost about £llO,OOO, of which
£60,000 will be for construction, and the
rest will go to square up with the parent
co., claimholders, etc. So far the Maoriland
Government has offered only sympathy, but
when the co. has the job in hand some real
assistance may be forthcoming.
:Js ijt *!• *!*
The International Tin Committee, which
met in Paris during October, gave the figures
for September exports. These compare with
agreed quotas as follows :
Quota Exports Sept.
Tons. Tons.
Malaya .. .. .. 1927 2163
Bolivia .. .. .. 1224 1218
Netherlands .. .. 1068 1312
Siam .. .. .. 833 764
Nigeria .. .. .. 286 464
Thus the various countries have kept faidy
closely to their quotas. Previously Bolivia
had overshot the mark. Many now believe
that world production and consumption of
tin very nearly balance each other. The
London spot price of the metal, after touch-
ing £157 16s. 3d. in September, was £149
3s. 9d. at last week-end, with a tendency to
strengthen.
The much-talked-of ballot for the ground
on the old Administration reserve at Ed e
Creek was held at Wau on Dec. 5. For .the
nine claims, each about 100 ft. by 200 ft:.,
no less than 13,200 applications were re-
ceived, including some from Great Britain
and Maoriland. The ballot-box used by the
Warden was made from a cement cask with
a crowbar through the middle as a spindle.
Each miner’s right cost £l, but he had nine
draws and a fair run for his money. Those
present stated that neither “Tatt.’s” nor a
State lottery could have been drawn in a
fairer manner. The area referred to is
6500 ft. up, and adjoins the Eldorado lease
from which the late Ilarry Darby is said
to have won over £BO,OOO worth of alluvial
gold.
tf * * *
The Privy Council's decision in favor of
Westralian'tributors might result in a group
of Clone,urry prospectors proceeding against
the Queensland Government. During the
Moore regime, owners of gold-bearing ore at.
Cloncurry were paid at the rate of £4 per
ounce, the State Government being the pur-
chaser for the State-owned smelters at
Chillagoe. The belief of the ore vendors was
that, later on. a further payment would be
made in respect of exchange. But repre-
sentations made to the present Government
have proved fruitless. It’s a knot that needs
unravelling,
The latest adventurer on the Cracow (Q.)
goldfield is Australian Mining Trust, formed
with a capital of £lO.OOO to prospect and
develop an area of 102 acres. The co. has
engaged the services of B. Dunstan, formerly
Government Geologist of Queensland, fob two
years. He says that the field may be rated
a permanent one, and that gold will pro-
bably be found beyond the areas now known
to carry deposits, and may continue in depth.
'■* '•* *•'
Activity in the Lolworth area (Q.) is
growing. On the Sunrise 51 tons, crushed
at the end of Oct., yielded 1790 z., making
total production from this mine for the 10
months 800 oz. Si lay a Tin has optioned the
Big Shine, and commenced development; the
shaft is to be sunk another 50ft., and the
upper levels driven. The Pioneer mill has
been completed, and will put through its
first 30 tons from Campbell’s Hope as soon
as enough water is available. The Marble
Arch, two miles from Big Shine, has been
taken up by Lolworth Options, and a second
shaft is to be sunk 102 ft. east of the main
one to prove the continuation of the ore-
body. Within three miles of the battery
over 600 tons of stone awaits treatment.
* * * %
At Cumberland, in the Georgetown (Q.)
district, four mines are now being opened
up. The Pensioner shows a reef 18in. to
20in. wide at a depth of 170 ft., with assays
up to loz.; the Onward has a lOin. reef
carrying gold with oxidised lead ore; the
Carpentaria has a wide outcrop with mineral-
ised bands of quartz 3ft. wide; from the
Plumbian a parcel of 14 tons recently
returned £B7. About six miles from
Georgetown a 9iu. quartz reef has been
traced for 10 chains, and a test crushing
has been taken out. At Mt. Jackson a
gossan reef up to 2ft. wide is being
developed. In the past the reefs in this dis-
trict have proved to be narrow and limited
in extent, but high grade.
* =1: s'; sj;
The New Development Prospecting Co.
has commenced work, including the erection
of an aerodrome, on the old Woolgar field,
about 85 miles north of Richmond (N.Q.).
Gold was first discovered there in 1897, and
up to 1920, when the place was abandoned,
some £50,000 worth had been recovered.
Silver, lead, copper, bismuth and garnets
have also been found on the field.
* * * *
In the Imbil (Q.) district, Thomson's
party recently crushed 74 tons for 14oz.
lldwt. of gold bullion, and another 6 tons
yielded lloz. 6dwt. Other parties have not
met with much success.
* * * *
Interest in the low-grade formations on
the Grasstree field, 16 miles from Mackay
(Q.),_ is being revived. The Zelma is the
principal mine; when worked about 40 years
ago it yielded 7dwt. stone from a 25ft.
wide ore-body, mined from an adit.
Newliaven Claims, an area recently taken
up at Charters Towers (Q.), is being
sampled by Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd.
The Peak gold- and silver-mine, adjoining
the Occidental, near Cobar (N.S.W.), is
attracting attention 'again. On the 200 ft.
level the' lode is 60ft. wide, but rather poor.
* * * *
An alluvial area of 530 acres at the
southern end of the old Pitfield Plains area.
30 miles south of Ballarat (Vic.), has been
taken by Glenfine Gold Junction, a new co.
with a capital of £lO,OOO. The field, which
has been idle for more than 30 years, has
the blessing of W. Baragwanath.
* =S
A new reef has been discovered at Maldon
(Vic.) ; it; is believed to be an extension of
the Templeton line, which was extensively
worked in the early days. An 18-ton sample
from a shaft 50ft. deep returned 140 z., and
the lode lias widened to 30in. All ground
in the vicinity has been pegged.
* * *
Numerous reefs, with assays varying from
sdwt. to 30z., are being worked in the Ararat
district, Victoria. The State buttery is to
be reconditioned and test crushing®-, taken
out. Also, boring is to be undertaken to
prove whether several of the reefs live down.
* * * *
Gold Mines Development, Trcntham
(Vic.), has crushed 220, tons for 1430 z. of
gold, the best yield to date. The lode
varies from 3ft. to 7ft. in width, and is being
developed on Nos. 2 and 3 levels. A large
tonnage, is available for crushing.
* * * *
At Gisborne (Vic.) the main shaft has
been unwatered and sunk to 180 ft., where the
reef is 54in. wide, showing free gold and
pyrites. A test-crushing is being put through,
and is expected to show up well.
The outlook at Moonta (S. Aus.) is one
of steadily increasing activity, thanks to
the grant of £15,640 from the Commonwealth
Government. The underlay shaft on Milne’s
lode has been stripped to facilitate hauling,
a large headframe and winding hoist have
been erected and the foundations for the
crushing and flotation equipment, most of
which is to be bought from B. 11. South at
special rates, are being prepared. Ore re-
serves total. 31,000 tons assaying 5 p.c., and
there is a further 2500 tons of 6 p.c. stone
at grass. A recovery of 95 p.c. is expected,
and the plant is scheduled to be in operation
by the middle of next year.
In an endeavor to prove the western exten-
sion of Smith's lode at Wallaroo, the S.
Aus. Government has been diamond drilling
for some months now. Three holes have
been bored, and two of them showed a strong
lode formation, part of which assayed 8.5
p.c. copper over a width of 15 inches. Pros-
pectors working from Smith’s shaft have
located a wide ore body parallel to the main
lode.
The lode worked on the 85ft. level at the
New Deloraine has been met with again on
the 145 ft. level, where the stone promises to
be much richer. The S. Aus. Government is
putting down a bore to test the downward
continuation of the strike to a depth of 500 ft.
If the lode persists to this , depth, extensive
development work is to be undertaken. The
co. has also located some nice stuff in old
workings to the north.
* * * *
At Golden Ridge, Second Valley (S.
Aus.). a lot of ore containing 4dwt. of gold
and 0.7 p.c. bismuth is available for stop-
ing; indeed, much of it can be won by open-
cutting. The treatment plant can handle
70 tons weekly; amalgamating plates and
a Wilfley table have been installed and a
larger oil engine erected.
• * * * *
Titanium minerals (rutile and ilmenite)
have been found in pegmatite dykes travers-
ing schist country at North Hill, Myponga
(S. Aus.). Veins up to 12in. wide assaying
10 p.c. to 16 p.c. titanium oxide have been
proved by trenching. Details for a treat-
ment plant have boon worked out at the
Adelaide School of Mines, and development
work is to be speeded up.
The importance of exchange to the gold
industry is clearly shown by the latest Perth
Mint returns. These put Westralia’s pro-
duction of the yellow metal for November
at 53,956 fine ounces, making total produc-
tion for the 11 months 549,8500 z., -worth
£2,335,613 at the statutory price. Exchange
added another £1,643,319, raising the total
value in Australian notes to £3,978,932. IV itli
exchange as it is, fine gold fetching £6 ss. 9d.
in London is worth £7 17s. 2d. in Aus-
tralian notes, or 85 p.c. more than the old
mint value (£4 4s. 114 d.). But exchange
is a double-edged weapon.
The Norseman (W.A.) is asking share-
holders for another 6d. per share in four
monthly calls of beginning in January.
The money is to be spent on mining and
general exes., £3000; the erection of a bat-
tery, etc., £2250; debenture holders, £lOOO.
In addition to mine expenditure, etc., £3142
will be required for redemption of deben-
tures by Sept. 30, 1933. Crushing is ex-
pected to begin in April, and there is a lot
of stone assaying from 455. to 116 s. per ton
available. A 90 l>.c. recovery is anticipated.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance will offer share-
holders the balance of the £50,000 10 p.c.
10-year £5 notes (£31,050) at a premium of
75 p.c. in January. These will be allotted
in the proportion of one note for each 400
shares held. Any notes not so taken up will
be allotted to those who apply for more
than their quota, including holders of less
than 400 shares.
* •'> * *
The Westralian Government has erected
a new 10-liead battery at Cue. and all the
stamps are likely to be kept, fully employed.
The previous five-head mill treated 78,000
tons of ore and sands for 50,5520 z. of gold
in 13 years..
•!* ❖ -I*
Paringa, of Wes trail a and elsewhere, starts
boring on its Kalgoorlie block early in 1933 ;
but the “Wild Cat” is not optimistic about
results. The co. has 993,695 ' fully-paid
shilling shares, but little cash.
# * * *
South Ivalgurli (W.A.) returned 2s. 6d.
a share this month, reducing paid capital
to £93,753 in 250,007 shares of 7s. 6d. each.
A shilling div. will be sent out on Jan. 13.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is the quantity and value of gold
won in the various States from first discov-
eries to date? —3584.
The. Commonwealth Statistician’s figures
for the period 1851 to 1929 inclusive (they
are the last published) compare as follows:
Fine oz. Value.
N.S.W 14,989,000 £63,868,000
Victoria . . . . 71,326,000 303,496,000
Queensland .. .. 20,127,000 85,889,000
S. Australia . . .. 383,000 1,637,000
W. Australia .. . . 37.887,000 163,525,000
Tasmania . . .. 2,105,000 8,968,000
N. Territory . . . . 537,000 2,284,000
Total .. .. 147,353,000 £629,667,000
The figures fall considerably short of actual
totals because large quantities of gold of
which there is no record were taken out of
Australia in the early days. With the ex-
ception of fhe year 1889, when its output
was exceeded by that of Queensland, Vic-
toria maintained its position as chief gold
producer for the 47 years to 1898, when
Westralia took the lead. In 1929 West-
ralia’s production accounted for over 75 p.c.
of the aggregate for all States.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
J.M.: For the present, the co.’s earnings depend
upon the sale of bonds, not timber. Broadly speak-
ing, for the price of the bond the co. undertakes
to plant an acre with softwood, and care for the
forest until maturity. Then it proposes to cut and
market the forest for bondholders on a commission
basis. Bondholders thus take all the risks worth
mentioning... .W. 8.: Very doubtful whether the
plant is doing all that is expected of it....C.T.:
Yes... . L.L.: Write to the secretary, Wingello House,
Angel-place, Sydney... .M.J.: (1) £4 7s. 6d. (2)
Pref. divs. are paid in July and December. The
rate is 7 p.c. less statutory cut (22) p.c.) and 2s.
in the £ Federal tax on income from property;
thus the actual rate paid to shareholders is 4.88 p.c.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
The Japs in China
Dear Bulletin, —By what right are they
there? By exactly the same right that \ye
Britishers are in India, the French in
Algiers, the Italians in Tripoli—by the in-
herent right of a people capable of national
organisation to take control of a country
whose people have shown their incapacity
to govern themselves. Before we took hold
of Hindustan there was no Indian nation.
Its population consisted of a mass of bitterly
hostile communities constantly at war with
each other —a land without law or order,
governed by a succession of brigand chiefs.
We wiped these out, established the ‘‘pax
Britannica,” opened railway communica-
tion, constructed vast irrigation works, pro-
vided adequate defence against the “raiders
of the north that followed Tamerlaine” —in
short, made India a nation self-supporting
and self-dependent. China to-day is in
exactly the same miserable condition of
chaos that existed in Hindustan before the
time of Olive and Algeria before its annexa-
tion by France. Japan is a nation capable
of order, progress and modern development,
in a position to establish in China some-
thing corresponding to the British Raj in
India ; and I maintain that, in the interests
of the whole world, including the Chinese
themselves, she should have the support
(and, if necessary, material assistance) of
every civilised country in the world. Indi-
vidually the Chinese are a fine, intelligent
and industrious people, but their whole long
miserable history proves them to be utterly
without the capacity for civic cohesion or
national organisation. AH history- has
proved that without these qualities—all the
blither and blather about self-determination
notwithstanding—no people can become a
nation unless and until controlled and organ-
ised by some alien dominant race.—Yours,
Arthur Griffith.
Is Relief Work a Danger?
Dear Bulletin, —The N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment relief works offer the Communist
a finer opportunity than he ever hoped for in
his wildest dreams. Here he has a big
percentage of educated men that he had no
hope of reaching previously, men who have
had no experience of manual labor, who are
in many cases entirely unfitted for it. Now
with their hands raw from concrete poison-
ing they are listening to his propaganda
with ever-increasing sympathy. Communist
literature abounds on all the jobs; clever
work, too, in that there is different matter
for different jobs, carefully picking out the
grievances (very often quite real and just)
which are peculiar to the various works.
These are harped on and magnified. The
discontent among the men still on the dole '
occasionally comes to light; it is nothing to
the seething discontent manifest among the
men on the relief jobs, and when this really
comes to a head it will be led by Communists
almost inevitably; they and they only are
attempting to organise the unemployed.
The unemployed do not, as a rule, really
object to work for the dole, but they
do object and scoff at the Government claim
that anything is being done to improve their
outlook. A married man with wife and five
children is paid £3 7s. weekly less 2s. for
fares; the £3 ss. represents an average of
£1 12s. 6d. a week, as he works two weeks
on and two weeks off. What, a field for
the Communist to work in, when hundreds
of men in the same plight are got together!
Relief work under present conditions is a
danger to the community.—Yours, Beta.
The Sydney Transport Tangle
Dear Bulletin, — The .Sydney traffic pro-
blem has not been solved by the Transport
Advisory Committee. After the 116-page
report we are where we were. Of course
more money could have been made out of
the trams. But Governments have decided,
as a matter of policy, to carry many pas-
sengers below cost. The blind, students and
children are not profitable passengers. On
rare occasions only does an all-night tram
pay. Very early trams are also no good
from a profit point of view. School swim-
ming specials do not pay for axle-grease.
All these services have been left strictly
alone by private enterprise. If the recom-
mendations were put into effect handsome
profits might be shown; how ? Chiefly by
pulling up tram lines. But that is only
joking with the taxpayer. The committee
did not even consider the possibility of im-
proving the tramway system, notwithstand-
ing that £7,500,000 of public money is in-
volved. Writing down capital and charging
the losses up to the general taxpayer sounds
good—until a wheat-farmer, for instance,
hears about it. No; we are still afraid to
face realities. —Yours, A.Union Officer.
The Sales Tax
Dear Bulletin, —Recent amendments of
the Sales Tax Act that exempt sales of
jam, fruit-pulp, canned fruits _ and other
foodstuffs from the 6 per cent, impost pro-
vide sufficient reason for an immediate revi- '
sion of this most inequitable and obnoxious
method of tax-gathering. As the Act now
stands, a small limited liability co. special-
ising in electrical manufacture, and having
less than £750 subscribed capital, no re-
serves and about £lO in credit account, and
whose turnover, profit and the like are such
that it cannot pay working shareholders
weekly wages in excess of 355. each, is called
upon to disgorge about 30s. per month as
sales tax, whereas a fruit-canning co. with
substantial paid-up capital, plenty of mobile
funds, and the ability to disclose net profits
of £171,066 for a year’s trading will not
be called upon to pay any sales tax what-
ever. The harshness of such treatment in
the hands of a Government which is said
to believe in equality of sacrifice is surely
without parallel in the history of taxation.
To compel a business that loses 18 per cent,
of its capital during a. half-year to render
monthly tribute to the Caesars of Canberra,
while absolving from liability an industry
capable of paying a 10 per cent, dividend to
its shareholders, is the sort of tyranny that
would levy the highest rate of income tax on
the smallest salaries.— Edward Pollock.
Costs in Primary Industries
Dear Bulletin, —As you say, “what is
chiefly the matter with the primary indus-
tries of Australia is that they have boomed
our land values, and to-day are in conse-
quence groaning under the weight of interest
burdens.” But many properties are abso-
lutely unencumbered. The writer knows of
quite a number, his own among them. Yet
after cutting expenses to the bone, the un-
encumbered properties, disregarding interest,
can barely pay working expenses and taxa-
tion.
Prior to 1912, when prices were little
worse for primary products than tney are
to-day, reasonably well managed land paid
its way, including interest on capital. Why,
then, can it not do so to-day? Wheat yields
have improved since 1912; sheep yield
slightly more wool and mutton; the type of
dairy cow is better. It is when we look at
the cost of production that the difference
between 1912 and 1932 is so striking. Taxa-
tion has increased enormously. The Federal
Land Tax has had 20 years in which to
work mischief. Land tax in the various
States has increased out of all reason. Owing
to Arbitration awards local rates have grown
rapidly. Then we come to the everyday
requirements of the primary producer in
the way of machinery, wire, wire-netting,
galvanised iron, etc. —practically all double
what they were in 1912, yet practically
all made in Australia. Have tariffs and
the Arbitration Courts had anything to do
with bringing about these high prices? Surely
in the very near future Australia will have
to choose between her primary and her
secondary industries. After over 20 years
of bolstering up her secondary industries
at the expense of primary production, Aus-
tralia is on the rocks. Is it going to
improve matters by keeping primary pro-
duction entirely unremunerative ? Can the
secondary industries carry on and give em-
ployment while primary production remains
unremunerative? If the land were given
rent free to farmers and graziers and they
cannot produce at a profit, because of taxa-
tion, cost of necessary materials, machinery,
and, to a lesser extent, owing to cost of
wages, surely it is time to make a change
of some sort.
The writer knows The Bulletin has
always advocated Protection, but that Pro-
tection is being abused as applied to the
primary producer, who is chiefly dependent
on the world’s markets, and to whom, after
all, Australia has to look if she is to recover
financially.—Yours etc., Obar (S.A.).
The Granites Goldfield
Dear B.,—With the final bursting of The
Granites bubble comes the realisation that
the long-suffering public has once again
been led by the nose. That in itself is. bad
enough; but the factor which arouses the
indignation of an observer is the attitude
of a section of the press. Now that the
boom has burst, it is referred to as a tragedy,
Yet the same section of the press was
directly responsible for the creation of the
boom—in Sydney, at any rate. Articles were
published telling of the glamor of the desert,
of the men of the Outback, of Alice Springs,
of the arrival of a party to start a board-
ing establishment on the field, of the trains
which were .conveying the various parties
to the base at Alice Springs. Interest was
kept up by the publication of diaries and
photographs, with comparisons of conditions
during the early days of Coolgardie. In
short, every means possible to keep the pub-
lie’s attention on the field was utilised,
With what result? The promoters of vari-
ous worthless cos. make the usual clean-up;
the misguided investor is left wondering
why he was such a fool; while these news-
papers adroitly extricate themselves trom
an untenable position by looking round tor
a convenient scapegoat. No doubt they win
find someone upon whom to fasten the re-
sponsibility, but the public should not allow
the matter to rest there. The sensationalism
of this section of the press is a standing
disgrace, and the public should administer
a severe rebuff to the newspapers responsible.
—Yours, J. 0.0.
*
The Pastoral Industry
j) ear B —j t ta jj es a bulletin, cartoonist
( B . 23/11/’32) to tell the public what the
woa i industry really is suffering from—
parasites. If the £12,000,000 surplus funds
Q f b.A.W.R.A. had only been used to lay
the foundation of a new wool-selling organ-
isation, an Australian co-operative wool-
selling society, run by woolgrowers for the
benefit of woolgrowers, the profits reverting
to woolgrowers, the industry would be mak-
ing some headway. 1 nstead, the woolgrower,
through no fault of his own, is in the ni-
glorious position of now acting as an experi-
enced caretaker for the other fellow, with
few signs of the relief that must come even-
tually—the wholesale writing down of capi-
tal not represented by assets. Yours,
Pastoralist.
■
Give Youth a Chance
Dear Bulletin, —l agree with “Country
Ped” that we are worrying too much about
the old and not enough about the young,
The fact that thousands of boys of 16 to
20 haven’t had any work except perhaps an
odd job is the great tragedy of the time;
we are simply forcing our future citizens
to accept Bolshevism as the remedy—l hate
to think what the conditions will be 20 years
hence. It is not any neglect of the old that
the nation has to fear; it is the neglect of
the young.—Yours, Country Woman (Q.).
FOR FAVORS RECEIVED.
AUSTRALIA: “It’s up to me to give the old boy something. After all, I’ve had a better spin than most people since he
was round last.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hep. Majesty's “Blue Roses”
Royal “Autumn Crocus”
State '. Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal '.... “Waltzes from Vienna”
King’s “Treasure Island”
State Movies and Talkies
• il ’ ' „
Poverty Point Shifts
Until a few weeks ago, if you were in
urgent need of a burnt-cork comedian, a
conjurer, a trapezist or an eccentric dancer
you sauntered along to Park-street, Sydney,
on a Monday morning round about the
time gherkins and rissoles make their
appearance on saloon-bar counters. On the
footpath between Pitt and Castlereagh
streets, outside the Cri., you would find
assembled mummers of all eges and varieties
awaiting such a fairy godfather as your-
self. This stretch of pavement has been
known to generations of Thespians as
Poverty Point. It was, until recently,
their club and at fresco employment-agency.
But the world moves on. Poverty Point
is no. lo’nger located on the kerb, but is a
room at the rear of the first floor of 29
Park-street. There it flourishes under the
title of the Theatrical Club. Lew Dunn and
George Drew, who "manage the club together,
are the innovators who have put the tradi-
tional “pieking-up” spot under a ,roof.
When the Sundry Showman called on a
recent Monday morning he found Mr. Lew
Dunn, in his shirt sleeves, at the receipt
of custom. Lew was up to his-neck in club
affairs, so be handed the S.S. over to Percy
Shettle, with a suggestion that “'the Lord
Mayor” should be consulted. Percy is a
baritone who made his first appearance at
the old Gaiety in Castlereagh-street, and was
later with Clarke and Meynell, the Firm
and 11. D. Mclntosh. He knows everybody
at the club and exactly where to find them.
He found “the Lord Mayor” in half a jiffy.
“The Lord Mayor” is Bert Howard, one
of the big guns of Poverty Point, father-
confessor to younger members of the pro-
fession. He displays with 1 great pride a
watch inscribed “From the Little Battlers
to the Big Battler.” The Big Battler was
born on the Rocks, and commenced battling
as a newsboy on the Quay, where he sold
papers with “Griffo” and Jack Lang. At
14 he was Harry Rickards’s right-hand boy,
and afterwards ran vaudeville shows him-
self. He has been in the game 40 years,
and launched, among many others, George
Sorley and Mo.
Bert’s partner, Lorry Lorraine, whom the
S.S. ran to earth in a cubicle in the south-
west corner of the room, represents - the
young generation of travelling slio'wmen. -
Lorry saw service oh Gallipoli and in
France, and was twice wounded, and in
more recent times was generalissimo of an
army of nine actors which withstood 45
bailiffs who strove to evict them from an
Oxford-street music-hall. Another purple
patch in Lorry’s memories is the time he
figured in a command performance at
Windsor.
After saying adieu to Lorry, the S.S.
prowled around the place on his own. The
room was not much larger than a fair-sized
public bar, but had more people in it than
any bar has ever had, even at five to six.
A notice-board near the entrance carried a
hand-written slip of paper which stated
“Wanted dinner-suits (4), cheap; no rub-
bish ; average size; ventriloquist.” Another
announcement expressed a desire for the
services of a “singing cartoonist and light-
ning-sketch artist.” There were also notices
in praise of “Gap’s Educated Dogs” and
“Dante, the Great Magician,” and photo-
graphs galore of shapely-limbed ladies and
gentlemen with false noses. Around the
walls of the room were placed tables be-
longing to merchants who booked turns for
current shows. Not all of them were men.
Clara Keating, a brunette who has cheered
and been cheered by crowds at the Tiv. and
on Fuller’s Circuit, was busy engaging
variety artists for shows at the Leichhardt
Dispensary Hall and the Waterloo Town
Hall. At the next table Sybil Wilde, who
is as blonde as Miss Keating is brune, was
gathering in a mixed crew for one-night
shows at the Emerson Hall, Oxford-street,
and St. Francis’s Hall, Albion-street. There
isn’t much money in these small shows for
promoters or artists, but, as an old hand
put it, they provide “tea and toast” for
many a hard-pressed pro.
Perhaps the oldest of the old-timers among
the smokers in quiet corners was Captain
Henry Winters. The Captain arrived in
Sydney in the ’seventies with a circus—
Cooper and Bailey. He was the tutor and
guardian of the celebrated Educated Hog,
and in addition trapezed, contorted and swal-
lowed swords. Nowadays he trains dogs
and monkeys. A grand old chap, with a
fund of sunny memories.
"Then there was Professor Stevenson, now
retired. The Prof., who always in summer
sports a straw boater of the sort that is
coming into fashion again after a long cycle
of eclipse, was the man who introduced jiu-
jitsu into Australia. Sydney . crooks bear
him a grudge, for he it was who initiated
the metropolitan force into the Japanese
system of manhandling. The Prof, is still
remembered in Broken Hill, for it was there
that he defeated the famous “Panther
Dick,” a South African wrestler, after an
epic struggle.
Among the “spades” present (“spades” is
Poverty Point for colored folk) was Nellie
Small, who was born in Australia, though
her parents hailed from Barbadoes. An-
other was Joe Thomal, all the way from
British Somaliland, via an Aden Catholic
school. Joe was at one time a boxer of
renown. He was with Leon Gordon and
Oscar Asche, and figures every now and then
in movie advertising stunts.
The Theatrical Club has also a juvenile
membership list. While the S.S. was jot-
ting down a few particulars upon the back
of an envelope he was poked in the ribs
and asked whether he was booking acts.
The inquirer turned out to be 13-year-old
Jackie Clarke in search of a job. Jackie
has been going strong since he was seven.
His- specialty is an impersonation of Ella
Shields in her “Burlington Bertie” turn.
He has also broken into the talkies. Frank
Hurley picked him to play the brave fire-
man’s son in “Fire Guardians,” screened at
the Lyceum a couple of months ago. This
enterprising youngster has also made three
trips to Maoriland. Other nippers included
Doris Carsdale, eight years old and as pretty
as a flaxen-haired doll, who also imperson-
ates ; small and dark Rose Wilkins, look-
ing smart in a naval costume; Albert Moore,
who, even at the age of eight, shows signs
of becoming a matinee idol; and a bright
pair known to all as Joyce and Bill. ;
The thermometer mounted rapidly as the
morning wore on, and the higher the mer-
cury rose the more crowded the room be-
came. Percy Shettle became a master of
ceremonies,. introducing guests to a Distin-
guished Visitor. “Meet the Tasmanian
Nightingale”; “Here comes Auntie Maud
from 2UE, she used to be on the old
Gaiety”; . “Shake hands with Ward Lear.
Ward can imita,te.a Chow robbing a fowl-
house better than anyone I’ve seen”; “This
is Peter Hamilton, ventriloquist, an original
Anzac. Peter’s got a little daughter who is
in , the same, line as her dad” ; “Meet Bill
Leslie, Tom Walton, Percy Davis, Joe
Morris, Ted Stanley, Wal Rockley, Harry
Rocks....”
The Showman’s head reeled with the
names of actors,. of old-time playhouses, of
almost forgotten, plays, with dates and, slices
of biography. To add to,his embarrassment
a rumor had spread around that he was an
affluent manager, on the look-out for per-
formers. _ Demon kings in Gxford bags,
jugglers. in. hqrn-rimmed . spectacles,. pigeon-
tamers, /a. soubrette, a grandmother with a
picture of herself as a ballet-girl 40 years
ago,, pressed around him, recited their quali-
fications and presented their credentials. It
was.time to flit. It was long past, lunch-
hour when the SiS. descended to Part-street,
but upstairs the, game of hide-and-seek be-
tween mummers and managers still went on,
and apparently would do so for many hours
to come.
The Firm’s “Pantomime Frolics,” which
took possession of the stage of Sydney Her
Majesty’s on Saturday, drops the last pre-
tence that a Christmas panto, need have
a plot. Harlequinades, of course, expired
before the war, and in this latest example
the Dame and the Principal Boy have fol-
SOME POVERTY-POINTERS.
(Top.to'bottom, left to right ): A manager of troubadours; an impersonator of animals;
“The Lord Mayor”; an erstwhile lion comique; Lew Dunn, major-domo of the
new club; G. Howell, of the Actors’ Federation; an acrobat (you wouldn’t
think it!); a burnt-cork minstrel off duty.
lowed them into limbo. The show is almost
entirely a songandance affair, and as the
songs are the latest and most terrible pro-
ducts of Yankee syncopation factories it is
pleasanter. to talk about the dancing, much
of which is done by bright youngsters, who
take to every branch of the art. from the
latest jazz steps to the waltz, and from tap-
dancing to the Russian style of posturing,
like ducks to water. The sameness in the
fare is offset by the splendor and variety of
scenery and dressing, the constant changes
of spectacle, and the smart tempo at which
the show is rattled off. There is only one
very short'interval in the whole three hours
of it. An unrehearsed incident at the
matinee was the displacement of a young
lady’s brassiere. She snapped the offending
garment off with one quick gesture and cast
it into the wings, quelling an audience that
was moved to riotous mirth with a glare
worthy of Sybil Thorndike in “Lady Mac-
beth.” The tot couldn’t have been more
than four. Desmond Casey, the boy soprano
from Maoriland, sings like an angel, and
Jackie Clarke whose accent is pure Sydney,
comedes wit-h the aplomb of Harry Lauder.
The best thing in the show is the German
ballet, a dance which at its climax reaches
an almost incredible prestissimo.
In the advertising of the Welsh Choral
Society’s performance of Handel’s “Messiah”
at Sydney Town Hall stress was laid on the
fact that the choir was 700 strong. A very
large company, however, adds no more to the
effect of a great oratorio than it would to
“Hamlet,” while, in more than proportion to
its size, it increases the difficulties of choir-
,,master and conductor. What counts for
most in oratorio is devotional 'fervor, with
the respect for and appreciation of the music
which intelligent devotion compels. This
spirit was so far lacking in Saturday night’s
presentation that the “Hallelujah Chorus”
and other numbers which received enthusi-
astic applause were repeated. There were
evidences, too, that conductor Hector Flem-
ing and his choir were not very well
acquainted with each other. However, in
choral passages where there was unity of
purpose a very enjoyable reading was given,
and the orchestfa’s share in the performance
could hardly have been bettered. Robert
Scott, the tenor soloist, was expressive and
impressive, and Rene Maxwell, the soprano,
compensated for a tendency to chronic
vibrato by singing the words clearly and
sweetly. Alice Prowse, contralto, lacked
power, _ and Richard Hickson, basso, who,
according to George Frederick’s intentions,
should have sparkled, was no diamond.
A well-managed amateur show was that
given at Sydney Savoy for charity by The
Entertainers, who staged “The Love Idea”
arid “The Patsy” very competently. The
singing of Dorothy Meredith and the acting
of Iris Brodziak were notable features.
* * *
A revival of the “Medea’’ was Sybil
Thorndike’s final gift to Melbourne, but only
small audiences were thrilled by the bril-
liant exposition. The market for Euripides’s
bloody story had apparently been fully
exploited during the original presentation,
and more people would have rolled up if the
Dame had turned to “The Trojan Women.’’
Cost of the scenery was advanced as a rea-
son for the non-appearance of the latter
piece, but the “Medea” was effective enough,
though' the scenery was of the simplest—-in
fact, it was less ancient Athens than modern
Footscray. The King’s will be locked and
barred for a week while the carpenters are
hammering “Treasure Island” together.
# # *
New Sydney Repertorians put on a
comedy, “The Wedding Glide,” on Saturday
night. Save for a little indecision at the
outset the action moved smartly. Honors
went to Alice Bolger, Muriel Thompson and
Dorothy Whiteley.
* * *
One of the best;amateur musical shows
Sydney has-seen stands to the credit of the
Metropolitan Operatic Society, whose per^
formances of “Rose. Marie” at the Orpheum
Theatre, North Sydney, would have done
credit to a professional co. Patricia Minchin,
Bryson Taylor, Leslie Loughland and Arthur
O’Keefe took leading parts, Connie Hobbs
trained the excellent ballet and Palmer Kent
conducted.
,*. * *
The G. and S. season at Melb. Royal
was a box-office success, partly owing to a
shortage of competition from such shows
as “Waltzes from Vienna,” which is the
Firm’s Christmas present to Melbourne
at the same theatre. The “world’s loveliest
musical play” is due for arrival on Satur-
day. Pantos, are threatened in three sectors.
“Humpty Dumpty” is expected at the trans-
pontine Playhouse, with Bert Ray as chief
funmaker; “Dick Whittington” is to be the
Princess’s tenant and nothing has trans-
pired that is likely to prevent Mo being
Aladdin at the Tivoli.
Shadow Shows.
Of all the idiocies perpetrated by movie
directors, British and/or American, the
modernisation of Sherlock Holmes is the
most conspicuous. As a period piece, in asso-
ciation with hansoms, dog-carts, deer-stalker
caps and the like, one could take him
seriously; as a menace to the underworld
of 1932 he is a joke. When Francis L. Sulli-
van, as the sinister Yon Gauterman in “The
Missing Rembrandt,” at Sydney State, told
his accomplice on Saturday night that Sher-
lock Holmes was on their trail the audience
guffawed. Naturally. This generation re-
gards the great detective as a figure of bur-
lesque, while ready to admit that he might
have been a terror to the emperors of crime
of a previous generation. Holmes is nine-
teenth century or nothing; he looks as
anomalous wielding up-to-the-minute tele-
phones and automatics as Lord George
Gordon would if a film-director was ass
enough, to show him leading his No Popery
rioters in an armored car. Clothes and
modern gadgets apart, the picture is old-
fashioned. Holmes creeps about the room
in which, the villain, whom he has compared
for astuteness to Moriarty himself, and
another criminal are plotting, and isn’t heard ;
and Miles Mander overplays the part of a
drunken degenerate on the lines of trans-
pontine melodrama. He got some laughs, too.
Arthur Wontner is an ideal Holmes in
appearance, voice and manner, and lan
Fleming is suitably foolish as Watson.
“Girl Crazy” scores in two directions. It
is a Wheeler and Woolsey picture. The
Marx Brothers are madmen; Laurel and
Hardy arc simpletons in the pathetic Chaplin
tradition; Wheeler and, Woolsey are the
embodiment of raucous, cocksure Yankee vul-
garity, and many prefer them to the others.
Furthermore the'film is a skit on a “Western
and that kind of thing is always popular.
Eddie Quillan, of New York, has been exiled
by his father to a ranch in Arizona. At the
mention of the word “West” all cowboys
present raise their hats. The practice is
taken advantage of by Wheeler and Woolsey
towards the end. Pursued by Stanley Fields
and another homicidal cowboy they reach a
balcony, utter the sacred word and, as their
enemies’ hats come off, drop a couple of out-
size flower-pots on their heads. The fun is
all on those homely lines. Mitzi Green,
Dorothy Lee —as blatant as Wheeler, with
whom she pairs off, as usual —and. Kitty
Kelly, as Woolsey’s wife, are in the big cast.
* * ¥
Sydney Regent is showing Conrad Nagel
on a . Malayan island this week. Formerly
a distinguished London surgeon, he is now
shunned by both whites and natives —the
result of a taste for the bottle. Enter
lovely Doris Kenyon, lie mends her broken
leg. She trusts him. He reforms. Un-
known to Nagel Doris is unhappily married,
and when they meet again in England her
domestic affairs are nearing a crisis. John
Halliday, the unworthy husband, acciden-
tally poisons himself, and Doris is charged
with murder. This paves the way for a
series of trial scenes. There’s one thing to
be said for them: they have no spectacular
counsel doing a perambulatory vaudeville
turn before a daft-looking, jury, for they
occur in England. The principals are good,
and Reginald Owen,- who. is in charge of
the comic element, very nearly bags the pic-
ture at times.
“70,000 Witnesses” is a combination
murder and football film, which isn’t so bad
as the title might suggest. True, the charg-
ing of the noble, innocent with having com-
mitted a dastardly crime and his fight to
clear his name have been worked to death ;
also, the intricacies of American football still
remain a closed book to Australian audi-
ences. Yet it contains many bright spots.
The quiet, effective acting of David Landau
as a sleuth is one of them. Charles Ruggles
is a drunken newspaper reporter once more;
he helps to solve the murder, which occurs
in the middle of an exciting football game.
Johnny Mack Brown plays the victim. His
end is unique. A masseur rubs him down
with diluted nitro-glycerine; when his body
is heated by exercise a haemorrhage is set up.
Phillips Holmes, as hero, has little to do
but look like a wronged innocent, and. why
Dorothy Jordan is in the story remains a
mystery to the end.
* # *
“No. 17,” at Sydney ■ Haymarket, is a
British marrow-chiller. It contains a stormy
night, deserted house, walking corpse and
stolen necklace; and, of course, each mem-
ber of the cast, which includes Leon M. Lion,
Anne Grey and a Casson girl, impersonates
somebody else. There are two fairly origi-
nal features: a distorted close-up of a
tramp’s face as he shies from the corpse,
and a shot in which the entire cast leaves
the house to scramble for the necklace on
a runaway goods train, the which 1 is pur-
sued by the hero (business address: Scot-
land Yard) in a commandeered ’bus. The
acting is all right, but most of the situations
were old when the talkies were young.
“The Crooner” demonstrates the folly of
getting a swelled head. Like most sermons
it take's a h-—well, a long time to reach its
point. David Manners is the crooner whom
the girls love and the men loathe. The
night club where he performs is habitually
crowded. Ann Dvorak is the girl friend
whom he loses when megalomania grips him
and he is impelled to substitute moaning
jazz for heartsick ballads about Luv’s gift
of flowers amidst the bowers, and take sing-
ing lessons. Comes the climax. A man in
the club taunts him about a society woman.
Dave delivers a talkie uppercut and then
makes a frightful discovery. He has had
the rotten luck to out a crippled returned
soldier—the equivalent of running across a
war-debts creditor in England. The mistake
ruins him as a singer, but it has the advan-
tage of making him a down-and-out, and
that means, as every talkie-patron knows,
that he gets Ann back again. Rubbish.
The Palette.
Unassuming sincerity marks the work of
Alexander Colquhoun, whose paintings are
on show at the Grosvenor Gallery, Mel-
bourne. Colquhoun has a keen eye for the
pictorial aspects of his city and a charming
way of relating what his eye has seen. He
is a veteran painter, trained in the ortho-
dox schools, who has abandoned the gallery
picture ambition and returned to the simple
impression, a far more difficult job. There
is good painting in “Springtime in the Fitz-
roy Gardens” and “From Prince’s Bridge.”
“The Green Mill” suggests at first sight
that the artist has been in Holland, but it
is only an unusual view of the entrance, to
a popular dance hall. Another unusual view
from the south side of the Yarra shows Mel-
bourne doing . its best to look like a cross
bfetween Moscow and Constantinople.
A row that has been brewing at Vie.
National Gallery school has come.to a head
with the showing of the students’ pictures for
the annual travelling scholarship. The
“Herald” started it by holding an exhibition
of French modernists. The spirit of revolt
from academic traditions spread to boys
and girls under Bernard Hall’s direction.
Some were darkly suspected of drawing and
painting according to the strict canons. of
orthodoxy during the daytime and creeping
away to sundry artistic catacombs which
have appeared in the city to practise secret
drinking at the spring of Utrillo, Yan Gogh
and Matisse in the evenings. These noc-
turnal goings-on began to be betrayed by the
appearance of whisky noses, so to speak, in
the work of the students at the Gallery.
Hooch color and bootleg rhythm began to
permeate their compositions, but the full
horror of the situation was not revealed till
S. Atyeo, a former prizewinner in academic
art, submitted two female nudes and a male
showing distinct Bolshevik leanings in the
scholarship competition. These were solemnly
banned with bell, book and candle, with the
usual result that the precocious juvenile is
now getting more publicity than his talents
warrant. For the ninth year in succession
a girl has won the travelling scholarship, the
lady this time being Miss I. Robertson.


«
mm
:: *:S
NT"
'■soiiW'V
m
s£2sk;:\
a
m
bp-
•«sw:
i
K
M
,!>;■
11
CV
V:’.-'
. .
■
m
m
Mzm
}'y^\
yi£>.
mm
A
wm.
mm
¥>:¥
11
. . . and after all, what better earnest of true
hospitality than to provide one’s guests with
the well-being found in this mellow, matured
Australian Spirit . . .
Economical too —pleasingly so these times • •.
AND
♦
!C Vorlct Purest,
THE NATIONS FAVOURITE


N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital . . . . . . . . , , £241,34)
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . . . . . £3,660 000
Total Reserves approximately , . , . . . , . . £9OO 000
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . . £5OO 000
Area Planted 146,285 acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris.
S E E- Thunderin s NIAGARA FALLS
On the way to ENGLAND
|VVi
m
rat. '3ssf?sta?* ra£Lss •*?
Si t#^fe
m%>,\ \wmi>
ifM » Kv
sc* jha ‘
§4s .
mM:- ’•
4*^
%.. v
«£ Til tA>
•i/r. • 1
.'fe,. ‘
> v ’*S
|pp^4 ! Am
e&& -5
i-if >•';•■»•'• ygi
i, HIS sublime spectacle—a moun-
tain of rushing water will live forever
in your memory.
Go via Canadian Pacific for the
World’s finest scenery on the way to
Niagara. You cross the famous
Rockies—see Banff and Lake Louise,
and the vast scenic holiday region
of the Great Lakes. There’s a thrill
in every mile of a trip across Canada
—that’s why so many travellers go
that way to England.
fVrite for details and illustrated booklets.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 Georg,e Street, Sydney.
Canadian Pacific
World’s Greatest Travel System
Trains Steamers Hotels
ABORIGINALITIES
SILLY BUSINESS, REALLY.
“There’s a place down in Sydney they gives you two pairs o’ pants
with a suit.”
“Yes, but it don’t seem much sense to me. A bloke’d feel all ’ot
an’ bothered wearin’ two pairs o’ pants.”
“C.C.”: A kelpie which had gone to the
newsagent’s for his master’s morning paper
every day for 13 years died at Geelong the
other day. It was the successor to a dog
which had done the same thing for eight
years.
“Tenrag”: One of the most
interesting characters in latter-
day Maori history is Wiremu
Ratana. In 1920 Ratana, then
a Presbyterian minister, felt
that he had been given healing
powei\ Whether he had it or
not, many Maoris believed he
had, and were cured in conse-
quence, and not a few pakehas.
who had no more contact with
him than a few written lines
of advice, regard him with grati-
tude. Then, with advance
agents and an army of secre-
taries, Ratana travelled the
length and breadth of M.L., re-
ceiving columns of newspaper
publicity. Cures were multi-
tudinous and money poured in
from the grateful. But after
two years this phase stopped
with a click. Ratana believed
he had lost the power to heal.
Nevertheless he blossomed forth
as the founder of a new religion,
and established the village of
Ratana. Incidentally he be-
came one of the most success-
ful farmers in the North Island.
Now he has bobbed up with a
petition which he laid before
Parliament last month, praying
that the Treaty of Waitangi
should be embodied in the
Statute Books so that all may
know that the treaty is opera-
tive and that the ties of brother-
hood between Maori and pakeha
may be preserved for all time.
There are 30,128 signatures to
the petition, which must repre-
sent very near the total adult
Maori population.
“Tine” : A not uncommon tragedy of the
wilds was discovered in the N.S.W. National
Park recently when rangers found the dead
bodies of two stags with their antlers inter-
locked. They were in the middle of a circle
some 40 yards across, beaten flat and
stripped of vegetation, showing that the
poor brutes must have battled to free them-
selves for days before going under to star-
vation and thirst. One curious touch was
that a piece of wire was firmly twisted about
the antlers of both. This was either already
on the antlers of one of the stags or was,
somehow or other, picked up in the struggle.
=!-- * * *
“Wealsman”: Wooden wharf-piles along
Hobart’s waterfront that were a very few
years ago black with big mussels are to-day
as. clean as the tele.-posts along the Prince’s
Highway. The exodus is generally put down
to poisoning by
waste products
from the factories,
zinc works, petrol
stores, oil tankers,
etc., along the fore-
shore. But local
scientists arc not
so sure. The pois-
oning theory is
discounted by the
fact that other
marine denizens,
shellfish, scale fish,
jellyfish or bar-
nacles, are appa-
rently unaffected.
Indeed, the ’tween-
tide sections of the
piles, whereon the
mussels and acorn
barnacles dwelt to-
gether in silent
and happy com-
munion, are now
adorned with a
healthy rough-cast
of the last-named
on his little own.
It is reported that
mussels are gradu-
ally but surely
growing scarcer
throughout the
whole wide ex-
panse of the Der-
went Estuary,
•vhile oysters, after
having almost
totally disappeared
from those parts
some 75 years ago,
are rapidly increas-
ing. These two
sea-beasties take it
in turn to dominate
the position, some-
tiling like, political
parties, but with
less noise and fuss.
And, as established
bv local bur rowers
into the alternate
layers of mussel and oyster-shells found in
the middens of the departed Tas. Binghi, the
pendulum has been swinging back and forth
more or less regularly for many centuries.
* :» * *
“C. Coral”: When a Japanese steamer put
into a North Australian port, the doctor
SCRATCHED.
“Why didn't you win, Joeky."
“Didn’t want to, Boss. Soon as I see I had no plurry chance, I didn’t try any more.”
who granted pratique was perturbed to hear
the captain mention that he had on board
“12 parcels of smallpox,” as the importation
of vaccine is prohibited except under certain
conditions. A Customs officer asked whether
he might see the parcels. Certainly! An
order was given; stewards deposited a col-
lection of shrubs on the table, each in its
little flowerpot, and withdrew. The officer
ventured a question. “But these are
the parcel; they are what I have de-
clare!” protested the skipper, in his
turn bewildered. “I tell the doctor that
I have 12 parcel small pots.” Probably it
wouldn’t have helped matters had the invoice
been produced. A Brisbane bookseller got
a letter from a Jap, who asked that some
“Passion Books” be sent him. It took a
lot of correspondence to elucidate that what
he wanted was fashion catalogues.
* * * •-!=
“Rewo” (Southern Rhodesia) : To explain
to Europeans the cause of the financial de-
pression is difficult enough, but to explain
.to natives 300 miles beyond the railway
why their basic wage is reduced is hopeless.
With a limited knowledge of the language,
I did my best. When my version leaked back,
via dusky brother, to headquarters it was to
the effect that the manager had robbed the
bank, gone down to Bulawayo, bought up
all the available whisky and women, and
gone to England to have a booze-uo with
King George. The price of a drink got me
i;ight with the manager. I trust King George
will forgive me when he reads this in
his Bulletin.
* * *
“Just So”: A minor bush tragedy. The
boss sent Jim into Dingo township with a
cart drawn by a notoriously vicious mare.
This is what he heard from Dingo by tele-
phone : “Hello—that th’ boss? —Jim speakin’
—th’ ole mare’s baulked outside Flannigan’s
pub an’ she’s still there-—wot? —yairs, they
tried twistin’ ’er tail—a bloke out uv er
motor-car give us th’ tip—yairs—they’ve took
’im to th’ ’orspital—yairs, we tried that
too—tied up ’er forefeet, but it didn’t work
—th’ cow ’ad two ’ihd feet left —it was th’
parson —they’re pourin’ water on ’im now
—’e said they couldn’t kick that way—yes,
we tied a string round ’er ear—Bill Ander-
son from th’ Shearers’ Arms does it —no,
not too bad—jest bit er big piece out uv
’is face—they’re sewin’ up th’ ’ole now—
too right we built er fire under ’er —was
th' cart burnt at all? —my oath—th’ flamin’
lot uv it —that’s wot I’m ringin’ yer for—-
send in another cart.”
■f- * * *
“Taniwha”: When the rebel chief Te
Kooti was eluding his would-he captors in
the Urewera country of Maoriland, he lived
in a Maori meeting-house, embellished with
the usual carvings. After Te Kooti was
captured the house was declared tapu —by
whom is a bit obscure. Probably he wasn’t
a really top-notch tohunga. However, there
the tapu was, and though the Dominion
Museum has had a covetous eye ,on those
carvings ever since it was established, it
could never induce the local natives to allow
them to be removed. Not till just recently,
when the Museum sent along the most silver-
tongued member of its staff, T. Heberley.
Heberley could talk a bird off its perch, and
after a lot of persuasion from him the chief
of the Ureweras, Te Whenuana, said, “All
right. You may take the carvings. But
if ill-fortune, comes of it, don’t blame me.”
So the elaborately-embellished lintels and
eaves, weighing a ton, were taken down by
sacrilegious hands and loaded on a motor-
lorry. All was ready for departure on the
long journey to Wellington, and the driver
was cranking up, when the vehicle gave a
lurch and started running backwards to-
wards the edge of a steep ravine. The
driver scrambled aboard in a vast hurry and
got his brakes to work just in the nick of
time—on the very lip of the precipice. The
tapu had failed! But the carvings were
not yet out of Urewera territory. Just as
the lorry neared the border it swerved at
a bend and plunged over a 50ft. bank,
turning three complete somersaults before it
came to rest upside down at the foot of the.
declivity. Heberley and the driver, how-
ever, escaped without a scratch. The carv-
ings were hauled up with ropes, another
lorry was obtained, and the timbers were
taken to Rotorua railway yard, whence they
were railed to Wellington and set up in the
museum without further mishap. The tapu
had done its best, but, as any Maori will
tell you, it couldn’t have been first-class
tapu, or the carvings would have killed
anyone who dared to lay violent hands upon
them.
$ $ $ $
“O. W. Wairoki” : Henare, who had been
away, from his home doing “relief work”
in the backblocks, was sued for debt. A
kindly magistrate, reviewing the case, re-
marked that the native’s position was no
doubt due to the fact that he had to keep
two homes going. “Tat’s right,” agreed
Henare, flashing a grateful smile at the
Bench, “but how you know I hafe two
wahines, eh ?”
*!* v -l' •!•
“Black Mountain”: Some time ago there
was chronicled on this Page the record of
a 46-year-old mare at Gilgandra (N.S.W.)
which ran around the paddock accompanied
by her last foal —now a horse of seven years.
Well, listen to this: In 1893 Fred Lampe,
now of Coonamble (N.S.W.), bought a
three-year-old mare. To-day, at 42 years of
age, the mare is suckling a yearling, and is
in foal again ! If she is successful in bear-
ing it, it will make her 34th foal, and only
two of that number failed to survive. In-
quiries have been made in England and
record books searched, but no record can
be found of a similar performance in any
part of the world. A fact worthy of men-
tion is that the first 20 years of the mare’s
life were spent in snowy Kiandra. Snow
is unknown at Coonamble.
FIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The horsemen ride in the hills to-night;
There’s hurry in stable and yard ;
For they’ve caught the glow of a creeping
light
That called on'the best to-a stand-up fight
When it threw its challenge to left and
right,
As down the valley a side-wind came
And the creeping light was a withering
flame.
So sliprails tumble and gates go wide:
No time to fumble when bushmen ride
By gleam of'a hill-that’s scarred;
By gleam of a hill where the low flame dies
From ridges that melt in heat,
And broken gullies that flank the rise
Are red with the wickedness that lies
In, the thousand evil-winking eyes
That leer in glee where the fire-fiends creep.
While broken mothers and children weep,
The wild flames come and the creek is crost,
And the sum Of a lifetime’s work is lost
In an agony of defeat.
They gasp and choke in a lurid glare;
And to-morrow the world will know
Of homesteads taken and paddocks bare,
Of brave hearts broken beside them there.
Beaten; at last by a black despair,
Where haystacks, touched as the flames
go by,
Are lost as smoke in a hungry sky,
And stockyards perish and fences burn,
And all they cherish is swept in turn
By the red and the raging foe.
N.S.W.
W. M. FLEMING.


SAVE AND PROFIT
Piling shillings one upon another may be a form of thrift, but it is a
risky method—arid unprofitable. There is loss of profit because the
same money, placed in a Commonwealth Savings Bank, would earn
interest. There is risk of loss by fire, by burglary, even by inadvertence,
and, not so obvious but quite definite, there is the risk of temptation
to spend.
The Savings Bank Account is the logical place for your savings, for
there they both accumulate and earn interest. Thus your saving power
is multiplied, your savings become profitable, and you are less tempted
to spend wastefully.
Open your Account now.
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
e
m
m’WvfnMm
mm
nm
Greetings to Australians
with Best Wishes for Xmas
and Prosperity for
The Authorities look forward to the pleasure of
meeting Australian Buyers personally at the
Spring Trade Fair, 1933, when event effort will
be made to provide them, with a happy business
holiday.
è
IN THE HEART
Of BEMJTIFUI
GERMANY
“Mamba Mouth”: That par. about the
Western Queensland “calabashes” and “sliin-
plasters” (B. 7/12/’32) recalls the old
British New Guinea days when banks were
not. The currency consisted of orders on
the various storekeeping and trading firms
at Samarai, Port and Daru, then, as. now,
the metropolitan centres of their section of
B.N.G. Two firms, Burns Philp and John
Clunn and Go., added to their other
activities the issue of banknotes. Both were
in free use throughout B.N.G. and, in the
case of 8.P., in the Solomons and wherever
the firm had a station. In those days it was
“’EAR, ’EAR!”
CAP'N RICHARD: “I tell ’ee, brethren,, gold is no good ’t all, and as for silver, it baint
worth the paper ’t is written ’pon.”
rare ta see a sovereign or an Australian
note As warden of two goldfields writer
handled a considerable amount of cash in
his office during the year and quite 95 per
cent of that was in B.P. and Clunn our-
rency Clnnn’s notes also ran in Cooktown
and its hinterland, where the firm was big
potatoes in the tin-sluicing days.
“Seely Sussex”: In Australia no dewpond
would function (B. 7/12/’32). These ponds
are invariably on high open ground the
Sussex weald is full of them and their
peculiarity is, not their capacity for retain-
ing water, as *“Roga” states, but the fact
that they fill themselves and keep full with-
out any visible aid from springs. Rain
helps them a bit, but in the driest seasons
the water is- still tliere. The supply comes
from the nightly dewfall; the peculiar
construction of the pond, with its crude but
effective insulation, condenses the dew.
Evaporation is practically nil in humid
England. Under an Australian sun a dew-
pond would be a futility.
;|c :!: $ *
“Barangkali”: This is the story of the
Deluge, with trimmings that are reminiscent
of earlier chapters of Genesis, as told to
me by Ahmat. Some Malays out hunting
chanced on what looked like a great log.
It was a snake, fast asleep. Summoning
assistance, they staked the reptile to the
ground and then killed it. . Amidst great
rejoicing, the snake was skinned and the
choicest parts were carried home to the
village, where a feast was immediately pro-
posed. The skin was stretched over the
great drum, and while the women were cook-
ing the flesh the drum was beaten. No
sound came from it. As the flesh was put
into the cooking-pots strange noises were
heard, and the flesh of the snake began to
evaporate and form into a misty cloud oyer
the fire. Suddenly the drum sounded of its
own accord, and a light rain began to fall.
The terrified Malays huddled in their huts
as the rain increased until it was
falling in torrents, the drum beating
faster and faster, as if in tune with
the elements. All that night the rain fell,
and next morning all the land was covered
with water except the peak of the highest
mountain in the world. All mankind per-
ished except one girl, who managed to reach
the mountain-top. Here she found a mon-
strous snake lying on the bare rocks, and
on her approach the snake folded his huge
body around her, keeping her warm. As
the days passed, the snake went down into
the forests (for the water was subsiding)
and obtained food for his protegee. For
months the snake stayed with this girl, not
leaving her until she had given birth to
twins, a boy and a girl. They were the
progenitors of the human race.
“Plankton”: “J.A.” (B. 23/11/’32)
claims our golden-bellied water-rat, measur-
ing 13-iin., as easily the world’s champion.
He’s wrong. That, title belongs to the “tuco-
tuco” or coypu rat (Myopotamus coypu),
a common South American species. I have
seen them 24in. long, plus a 16in. tail. The
fur is sold as nutria’. The chinchilla, from
the same quarter, is as large as our rat, and
an extinct relative ( Megamys ) which once
roamed Patagonia was as big as a cow. An-
other giant rat found living in the forests of
Cuba is the “hutja-conga” ( Capromys
pilarides) , probably second in size to the
coypu, measuring up to 22in. It has a
longer head and a shorter tail than the
champion.
“Le Glorieux”: Cats may hate water, but
I had one that didn’t fear it. I lived in
a hut that was not so much on a shallow
creek as in it. A departing neighbor be-
queathed me a female cat, whose pastime
it was to sit on the creek bank and catch
fish. After a week’s rain I discovered one
morning that the creek was running over
the doorstep. The chair T vacated was
promptly bagged by
the cat as a tempo-
rary refuge for her
kittens. By the time
I had made up my
mind to pack up, the
water was a foot
deep and the kittens
had been transferred
to the table. The
Water continued to
rise and puss’s next
move, which necessi-
tated a swim, was to
the top of a what-
not in the corner. By
this time I had re-
moved everything
damageable from the
floor and was busy
stacking the bedding
on the table, with the
water still rising. I
heard a loud splash
behind me and
wheeled to see the
cat breasting the
waves with a kitten
in her mouth. Round-
ing the headland of
the doorpost she set
out, full-steam-ahead,
for the mainland,
now about 20 yards
distant. I took the
hint, hoisted my
three-year-old son on
my back and fol-
lowed, On my way
back I passed the cat
returning for her
second kitten, and by
the time I had waded
out with the baby
and her mother (the
water was now three
feet deep in the but)
puss was ready for
her third passage. I
waded in once more
to rescue the only
two chooks which
had the brains to get
up out of the water,
and when I again
landed the cat family was comfortably estab-
lished under some brigalow suckers. Two
days later I returned to the hut, to discover
Cat and Co. happily installed on the bedding-
on the table, and purring over the remains
of six pounds of bacon which I bad over-
looked in my hurry.
* * ❖ ❖
“Castle Hill”: “Skip’s” yarn about the
goats exiled to the Barrier Beef which had
learned to climb trees tor
their provender (B.
7/12/’32) reminds me .of
another peculiar happening
on Magnetic Island, just
opposite Townsville. The
island is composed of iron-
stone which Captain Cook
found seriously affected his
compasses. Years ago when
the goats in Townsville and
the Towers had got beyond
all bounds it was the custom
to round them up in mobs
and dump them on Magnetic,
the Towers contingent com-
ing down by rail. Some time
later visitors to the island
reported a peculiar condi-
tion of things among the
goats. Billies were fre-
quently found head to head
and unable to part them-
selves. Investigation showed
that horn-locking was not
responsible. The affair re-
mained a puzzle until a tour-
ing scientist was asked to
investigate. He ; discovered
that by dwelling on the
island the goats bad become
highly magnetised. Conse-
quently, whenever two billies
had a butting match the firstf
contact of their horns set
up a magnetic field which
effectually imprisoned them.
* ❖ *
“M.L.C.”: An American gentleman asserts
that "he has frequently observed the
cedar waxwing birds, when packing' for
migration, line up on the branch of a berry
tree and pass the fruit politely down the
line from beak to beak. The hindmost lias
first pick, and .so on in rotation ; when all
the rest are fed, it is manners for the dis-
tributor to help himself. While this is some-
thing of a strain on credulity, yet the whole
business of migration, were we unaccus-
tomed to it, would appear equally incredible.
Most, if not all, migrants breed in the coldest
parts of their range, and are remarkably
regular in the date of their arrival
irrespective of external climatic conditions.
One of the most recent theories, which can
be applied to fish, seals and whales, as well
as birds, is that the stimulus results from
FAMILIAR GROUND .
THE BOSS'S BRIDE: “I want you to do my room, Mary. Come
and I’ll show”
MARY: “No want showem that one, missus. I bin find ’em
that one long time before you come!”
a physiological restlessness connected with
the approach of the breeding season, and
that this impulse is controlled by the change
in the length of daylight. Obviously the
long summer days of the temperate regions
provide advantages for feeding the young
which more than balance the dangers of the
migration flights. Another problem is bow
the young birds, who in many cases are the
first to depart, find their way on a journey
they are making for the first time. In some
way there has been inherited a tendency to
respond to certain directive stimuli in. a
certain manner, and so the migrating bird
proceeds along a path traced by generations
of ancestors. It is natural to suppose that
after the breeding season colder tempera-
tures and shorter daylight drive the birds
south and west rather than north and east.
The sense of vision in birds is extraordin-
arily acute, and though migration takes
place chiefly at night, the rays of the moon,
the waves of the sea or even a, star cluster
would enable them to hold their course.
Distances of 150 to 300 miles per day are
probably the average flight, though M.D.
migrants must make single flights of 800 to
900 miles, and the golden plover, on its way
from South America to Nova Scotia, appears
to travel 2000 miles in an unbroken flight.
* * * *
“Old Glory”: The case of that Taronga
Zoo (Sydney) shark that for months posed
as a male until a post-mortem showed it to
be a lady (B. 23/11/’32) is not without
precedent. When the First Wisconsin regi-
ment joined the Federal troops at Vicks-
burg, the capture of which made General
Grant’s name, it had as a mascot an eagle.
This was often carried into action on
the regimental colors, which in those days
were placed in the front line, but the bird
came through the Civil War unscathed. The
Wisconsinites had named it “Old Abe.”
They erected a memorial. at Vicksburg on
top of which sat a marble reproduction of
tli'eir mascot. The latter had been housed
with otliefs of its race in its home State
after the war and generally treated with
veneration. Then one day it aroused con-
sternation by laying two eggs and subse-
quently hatching them. Beyond a proposal
to change the bird’s name to St. Joan, or
something like that, nothing was done, and
the eagle on the memorial still watches over
Vicksburg.
RABBITS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In the N.S.W. Assembly last week a wire-netting
barrier from the Queensland to the Victorian border
was suggested as the only means of saving the
eastern part of the State from devastation by
rabbits.”
Rabbits ! Rabbits ! Plump, palatable rabbits !
There’s many a man who came here in
the dismal long ago
From somewhere in the English shires for
poaching two or three of “Squire’s”—
Or, anyway, he stubbornly insisted it
was so.
Rabbits ! Rabbits ! Engaging, playful rabbits !
Across the seas the landlord never found
them out of place.
And if the farmer made a fuss about their
being too numerous
It wasn’t hard to smooth him down with
half a dozen brace.
Rabbits! Rabbits! Destroying, ravening
rabbits !
In burrowed bank or warrened wood good
sport (and food) they meant.
But Devil take the pioneer, whoe’er it was,
that brought them here
To devastate a Commonwealth and raid a
continent!
Rabbits ! Rabbits ! Illimitable rabbits !
They started from our fertile plains upon
their westward track;
They travelled from Pacific shores to where
the Indian Ocean roars,
And now (the irony of it!) we fain would
bar them back.
Rabbits! Rabbits! What barriers, bother
rabbits ?
They built two thousand miles of fence
and more in W.A.
To check the slow, advancing host. And
• now which side of it there’s most
The boundary-riders have it that it’s diffi-
cult to say.
Rabbits! Rabbits! In English wood and
coppice
A pleasant creature of the wild, but here
a blot, a blur,
A blight, a noxious thing and worse —a
plain unmitigated curse !
Will no one ever rid us of this pesky
plague in fur?
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Reduced Tariff
e
Lower Tariff? Certainly! Lower Quality? Certainly not! Reduced rates
mean nothing if they involve reduction of comfort or service. The famous
Australia Hotel standard of quality is maintained, but at reduced prices,
made possible by substantial reductions in prices of raw materials.
The
c w Decorations
ROOM ONLY RATES:
Single Room from 10/6
Double Room from 20/-
Australia
Telegraphic Address:
“Austraotel, Sydney.”
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH.
SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
Australia’s main Test problem is to get.
Sutcliffe out and Bradman in.
The Christmas stocking will be a sock to
many heads of families.
* *
In its demand for the December payments
the United States was‘unwilling to accept
a check.
"Queer notice you got there! Do crooks frequent this
place?”
“A few of ’em are so crooked they can hide behind a
corkscrew, sir.”
We presume that Europe’s Christmas pre-
sent to Uncle Sam will be the usual wallet
of Notes.
V V
nwnwowAOT rx nrt
UNDERWORLD CHATTER.
Such doings, my dear! Everybody busy
doing their shoplifting for Christmas. Many
ot our Younger Set who were coming out
thns season will unfortunately be going in.
And these new dress modes! More intri-
cate than ever, my dear, with, their never-
ending false pockets. One wonders where
this sort of thing is going to end—though
one i.s not left wondering long if one hap-
pens to discuss the matter with a house
detective.
The moving fever is on the Reggie Upsan
Downs again. She was telling me that
moving was becoming a perfect nightmare.
No wonder; all her moving is done at night.
That immaculate dear, Detective-Sergeant
Grabem, threw a most thrilling raiding-
party on Monday. The guests arrived l*y
motor at No. 1 Central, the reception being-
held in the charge-room. The genial ser-
geant assured his guests that most of them
were in for a good time; or, at the worst,
for “time.”
Bracelets appear to be coming into their
own again, judging by the number worn at
this function.
D. McM.
When some of the Englishmen are bowl-
ing it’s a duck for our batsmen, no matter
how the scoring goes.
¥ ¥
UNCLE ALICE CONDUCTS THE CHIL-
DREN’S SESSION ON- XXXMAS EVE.
Now, boysh and girlsh, Uncle Alick speak-
ing. Ish been a w minerful day. We’ve all
had a grea’ time to-day and I shpose you
have, too. I ’spec’ shome of you have been
down to the beach to-day in the new bulls-
wool Titefit two-tone shurf shuits now being
generously shacriticed at Ragtackem’s for
4s. llthL reduced from 17s. IHd., that
Shan la Claus ish' goin’ to bring you to-
morrer. You’ll all have a great time
to-morrer. Ha ! ha!
Now to-night’sh bedtime shtory will be
about Aladdin an’ his wunnerful lamp—
and, speaking of lamps, if
you’ve got weak eyesh get
them teshted free, gratis,
and for nothing a t Goggles,
Ltd., at the corner of Pitt-
street and Lavender Bay.
Even if your eyesh are orlri’
they’ll prescribe glassesh—
they’d be mugs if they didn’t
ha! ha! Well, getting
back to our Arabian Nights—
an’ that remindsh me that
Arabs have always been fond
of horsesh an’ if your
fathers want to pick shome
winners nex’ Saturday,
“H'airy Goat Specials,” by
A. B. (“Lanky”) Washout,
that prince of equine prog-
nosh —hie—-prognoshticators,
at ss. a time, ish on shale at
all newsagents. He guaran-
tees six firsts, or he’ll give
£lO to charity, and charity
always starts at home. Ha '
ha!
Well, childrensh, one day
Aladdin, ash he played in
the street, met a - stranger
who spoke to him. “Wash
your father Mustapha?” he
asked. “Mustapha what?”
came back Aladdin smartly.
“Mustapha the Tailor,” shaid
the stranger. Now, without
question, Hackett and Slapp-
up are the cheapest tailors in
town. Thesesh high-class
shuit specialistsh guarantee
a perfect fit, all exshep’ the
coat, pants and vesht.
“Yesh,” said Aladdin, “but
he hash been dead a long
time.” Now if Aladdin’s
father had lived in Shydney
he’d have been buried in the modern way by
Snappy Funerals, Ltd., the fashionable
undertakersli and embalmersh. On hearing
these wordsh the stranger threw his arms
round Aladdin’s neck shaying: “I am your
father’sh brother. You are so like him.”
A«id sho shaying gave the boy a handful of
money.
Now, children, although these daysh
strangers don’t throw money about, if your
fathersh are short consult Eleemos—liic—
Eleemosynary Investments, Ltd., the well-
known moneylending firm. Low rates of
interesh ranging from 45 p.c. to 95 p.c. can
be obtained. Particulars from Sol. Cohen-
stein, the genial manager. Absholuteiy con-
fidential. Well, children, itsli a hot night
and Uncle A lick ish getting thirsty, and
shomeone hash josh mixed him a nice
sberbert in the studio, sho we’ll continue
the bedtime shtory to-morrer ni’.
Well, off to bye-byes! Shleep well, an’
'.,0 Va i° Up a u’ c£ atcl i th n, ° le mani comi £
oil U P, as , h - Claus. An’ you 11
c ra T' f' a t r< Aj, tim e to-morrer
Zj? a l .“£ ! Now, toddle oft to bunkie-doo,
y shieL. Goooo -Inc night.
S. W. Iv.
* *
“Special provision is made in the Prisons Act for
privileged treatment of prisoners during Christmas
"mi “ Dail y Telegraph,”
Ihe Act contains a Santa Claus, so to
speak.
“You look worried.”
“Yes. I’ve got my suspicions that my husband is carrying on.
with another woman.”
“Oh, well, I’ll tell you what to do in a case like that. Give him
plenty of rope, and” —
“Yes, I know. He’ll skip!”
Australian bowlers would like some Ham-
mond eggs.
*
CHRISTMAS IN DARLINGHURST.
The season of peace and goodwill is
ushered in in this suburb with inspiring cor-
diality. Gang-wars, long-nurtured vendettas
are forgotten. From the lowest razor-sharp-
ener to the highest “snow” magnate, senti-
ments of charity and loving-kindness are
diffused.
Late on Christmas Eve a band of motor-
lorries passes through the district collect-
ing razors and firearms. These, having been
duly labelled, are placed in a safe deposit..
The sly-grog shops open early, and the
proprietors, smiling benevolently on all,
treat even their trade rivals to free beer.
Metho. Mary, overlooking past rivalries,
invites Corrie the Queen o’ the Cross to
her unexclusive party. Flash Jake presents
Bill Bashem with a silver-mounted life-
preserver, notwithstanding that he has sworn
to give him a nine-stitch laceration before
the New Year.
Those who are not at Metho. Mary’s party
may be found in the streets holding high
festival. There are bottles everywhere, and
new ones being opened every second, while
many a young couple, forgetful of family
differences, may be seen telling the old, old
tale in friendly doorways.
_ But, as all good times must end, the mid-
night hour _at length peals over the revels.
Christmas is over! Formerly benign faces
assume their normal appearance, while
slowly and inexorably the long file of motor-
lorries returns, and the weapons, are claimed
by their eager owners.
T. W. N.
* *
They can’t accuse Kingsford Smith of
profiteering anyhow; he’s always bringing his
fares down.
* *
THE “HERALD’S” HILL.
“England’s formidable score inspired the obser-
vation by one of the wags on the Hill that the
installation of an adding machine would save a
lot of trouble and obviate the possibility of mis-
takes.”—“S. M. Herald.”
I heard that one at the same time as the
“Herald”; likewise a few that the proverbi-
ally accurate old sheet didn’t report:—
“My dear sir, would you mind sitting down in
front? Otherwise I will be reluctantly comoelled to
propel this paper bag in my hand, which is packed
with an assortment of
(а) Orange peel,
(б) Crusts,
(c) Australian soil,
at your ensanguined head.”
Also :
“If you are unable firmly to grasp the next ball
which comes your way, I would strongly advise you
to obtain a hessian envelope, with which your
efficiency should be considerably improved.”
And :
“Really I must say that it appears to me that,
after making all due allowances for the apparem
fatigue of the bowlers and the no less apparent
freshness of the batsmen, it will be necessary for
the Fire Brigade to put the batsmen out ”
E. E. G.
SUITABLE CHRISTMAS GIFTS.
Hullo, kiddies! Santa Claus has had to
,j 0 his rounds early this year on account
t he Transport Act, so he’s tipping you
G ff to your presents through Station XYZ.
little Jackie Lang, of Auburn, will
i oo h j n the Reid pre-selection ballot-box he
will find a nice seat for the House of Reps.
I tried hard to get one, too, for Toddie
Theodore, of Kirribilli, but I’m afraid he’ll
have to be satisfied this year with a seat oil
a newspaper directorate,
Little Joey Lyons needn’t fret, ’cos Santa
has left him a nice
vacuum cushion
that’ll hold him ever
so tight in that big
chair that other rude
boys say he’s only
keeping warm for
Stanny Bruce.
For Mickey Brux-
ner I’ve left a beauti-
ful new scooter (re-
gistered till next
Christmas). H’e’ll
find it behind the
file of perambulator
registrations in the
filcroom. I’m sure
Mickey will take his
friend Bertie Stevens
for a ride, ’cos
Bertie’s sure to let
him read the pretty
fairy tale by dear
old Major Douglas
that I’ve left for
him.
Wee Jock Garden,
Charlie Hardy and
Eric Campbell can
go on playing Re-
volts and Menaces
with each other,
because I’ve left
them a nice new
trumpet and drum
each. I didn’t leave them any guns in case
they hurt themselves, and then the people
who lov’e them would have, it in for poor old
Santa Claus.
Well, kiddies, I know none of you will
be satisfied, but don’t blame me. Remember
it’s the sales tax and the primage duty and
the money I had to pay Judge Swindell to
get my reindeer license that makes things
so clear.
O.L.
“Accused was fined for selling apples with black
spot. They were hidden at the bottom of the case.”
And he’s not the first who’s tried to hide
his blight under a bushel.
¥
“Nagel, being 6ft. 6in., dwarfs most other men.”
— “Sim.”
Anyhow, we’re all a bit short this year.
Exasperated Wife: “Why didn’t you
answer me? You must have heard
me calling you.”
EXHAUSTED HUSBAND: “No, I didn’t hear
you. If I had you wouldn’t have
found me.”
“The excitement of the children is all bottled
up for Christmas Day itself.”— “D.T.”
It is generally understood that the men
are better at this than the children.
* *
DIRGE.
Ashes to ashes,
Dust to dust!
If Voce doesn’t get you
Larwood must.
LAMENT FOR INFREQUENT
CHRISTMASES.
“Defendant: ‘I was celebrating- Christmas, your
Worship.’
“The S.M.: ‘You started early.’
“ ‘Christmas edmes but once a week, your Wor-
ship,’ said the defendant.”
—Police Court report.
Six weary sober days must jmss .
Days thirsty, profitless and flat,
Ere sanction for the social glass,
Or several —or more than that —
Is given by a time of cheer.
On such a day I push my beak
Well into foaming pots of beer;
But Christmas comes but once a week.
Ed like a world where Christmas came
On almost every other day;
But when it does come, can you blame
A. man who goes a bit astray —
Sinks down more pots than he can hold
And gives the world a bit of cheek?
■The right to festival I hold
When Christmas comes (to me) each
week !
Was there a spot where Christmas came
Round every hour , that spot I’d seek.
I find contentment, all the same,
With Christmas coming once a week!
H. M.
EPITAPH ON A DOG.
Here Tigger lies in unaccustomed case,
Throughout his life preoccupied hv fleas;
But when Death called, from sheer surprise
he went,
Finding he couldn’t scratch for that event.
J. D. G. M.
DISILLUSION.
The locks of gold above her brow
Used Once to thrill my eyes,
But they do not delight me now —
A las, that beauty dyes!
T. W. N.
ODDS ON.
“The Englishmen’s share of gate receipts is
already over £5000.”
They very soon found where the cash is;
Five thousand is more than a crust.
They may depart minus the ashes,
But they’re sure to go home with the
dust!
P. B.


■m
■ / : ;
if you work hard
• or play hard
you need good
nourishing
n RED
dK Kt U
Wherever you expend your energy... whether
at work or at play . . . you need to restore
used-up tissue and build up body and nerves
to enable you to stand the strain of continued
effort.
Beer ... good rich beer—taken regularly is the
great restorative of expended energy, the sup-
reme builder of health and strength, the best
insurance against exhaustion after great exertion.
Athletes and men who work hard know the
value of beer .. . they know the nourishment it
holds, the sustaining and refreshing power it
possesses. They drink it for the physical
benefits that only good, pure BEER can give.
If you work hard, or play hard.... BEER—
good nourishing beer will keep you e fit\
DRINK
è
BEER
REGULARLY
Its good for you f -
BREWED UNDER PERFECT HYGIENIC CONDITIONS IN YOUR OWN STATE
TOOTH’S
TOOHEYS
RESCH’S


The First Bank in Australia
One hundred and fifteen years ago, when the Bank of
New South Wales first commenced business in Sydney,
the term “ New South Wales ” represented, in effect,
all that is covered to-day by the geographical name
"Australia.”
This Bank, the oldest and largest in this country, and
Australian in origin, is still Australian in ownership,
directorate and management.
Over 65% of its shareholders are small investors, holding
20 shares or less and the average holding of all share-
holders is under 30 shares.
And to-day, this great Australian institution, keeping
pace with the development of the country, offers,
through its 705 branches and agencies in Australia, New
Zealand and the Pacific Islands, the most complete
facilities for the transaction of banking business through-
out the World.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank
of Commerce are amalgamated.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. NOW IN ITS 91st YEAR
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian Ne'ws with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best UW/ 1 1 /">
Illustrated Weekly is the W Cekiy LvOUlier
Published
Every
Wednesday
é
JEALOUS
STUART
CRAFTSMEN
Jealous of theii' pastj jealous of
their present, jealous of their
future / they etch the name
STUART on every piece ol the
crystal they fashion so lovingly >
so that it is known and admired
wherever beautiful glass is sold.
And because their skill is heredi-
tary > handed down from father
to son lor many generationsyou
can still pay as little as a Jew
shillings for a genuine example.
I
ME
? IA?
Ml
i *m
r.
n
it
-*_ ' --'• S-
\ i g
/V*
iX
*» U \. >r~-v’
r i
¥
RS
i
PlKfi/1
H
%
&*!SSs&3
'
JZ
%#*4 fPfe
wMMwai
i
t*fc3w&iS8§
&Xjf
v.fV
,: ; : >’':
■■H
HHHHI
mTIi
Be sure to look for the registered name “Stuart” on every piece you buy.
fjfie Charm f the
PACIFIC
If LAN Df
7,
IV \
ts
9i
KM
”}f’. T
i
iJJ
.'v .
I
k \
m
\y
PuTCH&£t&
rrr*
For less than the cost
of a city holiday!
EXCURSION FARES
(NO EXCHANGE)
SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days, Ist Class Return, £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class Return, £75
Seven-weeks’ Tour Cabin „ „ £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Twenty-three Days’ Tour, Ist Class Return, £45
Via Wellington, N.Z... Cabin,, „ £34
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and
Rarotonga .. Ist Class Return, £55
Seven-weeks’ Tour .. Cabin „ „ £4O
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Melbourne.
and Union Lines
SYDNEY
c ENGLAND
Linked by the marvels of America and the charm
of voyaging on the famous new liners . . .
'MARIPOSA MONTEREY
Extremely moderate fares prevail
FIRST CLASS
Single, from
£lO5/10 Rm £194/io
CABIN CLASS
Single, from
£B3
£152
AMAZINGLY LOW FARES TO AMERICA
in effect DECEMBER, JANUARY, FEBRUARY
SYDNEY
To Los Angeles
or Son Francisco
ROUND TRIP
First Class, from
£99
ROUND TRIP
Cabin Class, from
ê
PLAN YOUR HOLIDAY IN THE SOUTH SEAS
MINIMUM FARES from SYDNEY to
SUVA, Fiji . . .
PAGO PAGO, Samoa
HONOLULU. Hawaii
FIRST CLASS
Single Return
25.0.0 35.0.0
33.5.0 65.0.0
55.0.0 75.0.0
CABIN CLASS
Single Return
18.15.0
24. 5.0 47.10.0
38.10.0 55. 0.0
Many other attractive fare combinations to Europe
and Around-the-World. Fares subject to exchange.
Make your travel money yield a MAXIMUM RETURN.
Enjoy the comfort of these world-famous ships, the incom-
parable charm of a route starred by such ports as
AUCKLAND, SUVA, PAGO PAGO and HONO-
LULU 18 days to AMERICA! 28 days to ENGLAND.
Here are luxury, economy, speed.
Next Sailings to America via Auckland, Fiji,
Samoa, Hawaii
“MARIPOSA” JAN, 14 “MONTEREY” FEB. 11
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
I 2 Bridge Street, SYDNEY. 'Phone: B 7981-3
Ml2-7A


e
PERFECT LIFE
to DIAMOND RADIO BATTERIES./
WL
INS-1
HTHE interna! insulation of a radio
battery is vitally important. In any
battery, a leakage of electricity or chemi-
cals may occasionally occur from one
cell. If this affects other cells the
battery quickly fails.
Now—Diamond embodies a new ex-
clusive insulation material, used in a
_jiew way. It is proof against either
chemical or electrical leak-
age. It isolates every cell,
and absolutely removes any
chance of a leakage spreading. It is
the only 100% perfect insulation made!
The illustration at right shows the new
Diamond method of isolating each cell
in a perfectly insulated compartment, en-
tirely protected from leakage on sides]
and bottom. It is at the base of the cells]
where corrosion is most dangerous. No
other battery protects this danger spot.
“Perfect Insulation ” gives Diamond
many months of extra life.
as!
EH
: i mm
RADIO BATTERIES “ TORCH
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
drawbacks of subdivision.
“O’Gorman”: The present vogue is for
minute subdivision of grazing areas ; and there
can be no doubt that some remarkable results
have been shown. But anyone who has to
study income and outgo would be well-
advised to consider the following points
before committing himself to the policy.
(1) The initial expense of substantial
fencing is great, and all fencing requires
regular attention. And in spite of all atten-
tion it deteriorates. Between interest on
first cost, maintenance and depreciation, the
expense of fences cannot be. safely placed
below £lO per mile per annum. This is
pretty serious when multiplied by all fhe
miles it takes to break up, say, 320 acres
into even 20-acre blocks.
(2) Having closely subdivided, you must
provide water in each lot —it is imperative.
The cost of this will vary, of course, but
will average out at something considerable,
with another allowance of time and labor
for maintenance.
(3) The smaller the paddocks and the
heavier the stocking the more urgent becomes
the need for shelter —sheds or evergreen
trees. And if you go in for trees, you
leave animals without shelter till the trees
are grown.
(4) The continual shifting of stock which
is necessary is itself an appreciable burden
on the grazier’s labor-supply.
(5) Stock in a state of nature pay a
surprising amount of attention to their
night-camping, often walking up to four or
five miles every evening to reach_ snug
sites. Under the system we are considering
there are sure to be subdivisions which lack
every requisite of a comfortable camp.
(6) Above all, unless the routine of eat-
ing-out each subdivision in turn is rigidly
adhered to, the advertised advantages of
the system will fail to materialise. I can
speak decidedly on this point; because along-
side me is a neighbor who lias long pursued
the practice, with conscientious attention
to the provision of water, shelter, and herd-
shifting. Yet, because he is too soft-hearted
to starve his stock into really close-grazing,
his subdivided paddocks carry no more
stock than before that endless expense w 7 as
entered upon. Had he gone in for judicious
top-dressing, improvement in grasses and
draining, his country would carry more than
twice the stock and do them all far better.
LIMING PERMANENT PASTURE.
“Alf Alpha”: It has long been recognised
that a dressing of lime (calcium carbonate)
on pasture stimulates and increases the
growth of leguminous plants. Dressings, of
super, have a similar effect, up to a point.
Sulphate of ammonia, on the other hand,
stimulates and encourages growth of grasses
to the detriment of legumes.
Viewing the matter from the standpoint
of scientific feeding, it follows that pasture
following dressings of lime and/or super,
is richer in protein than untreated areas.
There is a limit to all things, and we should
keep both eyes open. Legumes and other
plants are lime-iovers, and consequently
their growth is considerably strengthened by
applications of lime, which means that the
soil must provide additional available plant
food (ordinary and extraordinary) to satisfy
the increased growth. In the absence of a
sufficiency of plant foods, it is possible to
get abnormal plants containing abnormal
compounds (pr'oteid and otherwise) in the
pasture. Then a beast suffering from lime
deficiency in grazing the pasture selects a
large proportion of the leguminous or lime
plant, and in so. doing obtains a dose of
high-nitrogen compounds (proteid, both true
and abnormal) which, in all probability,
would prove deleterious, just as a fancy
chocolate would to a twelvemonth baby. A
lime dressing following super, would tend
to produce more normal growth, but the
time will surely come when possibly the
phosphate-nitrogen excess will produce
abnormal proteins and/or other unsaturated
compounds, which, if not toxic, would be
deleterious to the health of the beast.
The sane and safest permanent method
for manuring pasture is to use a complete
fertiliser, as is the practice in England and
Germany. It is not suggested that the dress-
ing be a heavy one, or that it be placed on
the pasture annually, but it certainly appeals
when associated with judicious liming (using
a natural lime) as the proper way to
improve the yield of a pasture well-balanced
in the nutritive compounds, and equally
rich and balanced from the viewpoint of
mineral difficiency. .
It should be noted, of course, that liming
enriches pasture land in nitrogen by fixation
from the atmosphere, so that the complete
fertiliser would not require to be rich in
nitrogenous compounds.
PASTURE IMPROVEMENT IN S.A.
“Manton”: Parts of the Adelaide Hills
have responded remarkably to top-dressing
and the introduction of grasses and clovers.
At Mypanga, 40 miles south of Adelaide and
six miles from the coast, some wonderful-
pastures are to be seen. The district has
an average rainfall of 30 inches. Five acres
cut recently gave 20 tons of meadow hay.
And there is a 15-acre field which carried
57 sheep without hand-feeding for 12 months.
The sheep are fat and have produced heavy
fleeces. Before the advent of top-dressing
this field would not support a sheep to the
acre. , ,
As might be expected, merino sheep do
not thrive at Mypanga. First-cross English
Leicester and merino appears to be the most
profitable type to keep.
As for dairying, I inspected a farm ot
280 acres that the present owner bought
‘Seven years ago for £4 10s. per acre. When
he took it over he put 12 cows on it, thinking
that number sufficient; to-day he is milking
00. and the place is carrying 100 pigs as
well.
CANADA JOINS IN.
Canada like Australia, is discovering that
fertilisation of pastures pays. Says the
•‘Quebec Journal of Agriculture”: ‘A series
of experiments carried out by the Rural
Economics Branch of the Department ol
Agriculture and certain departments of Mac-
donald College have shown the great possi-
bilities of pasture improvement in various
sections of the province. Results are out
of all proportion to the time and money
spent. The application of relatively small
amounts of chemical fertilisers to run-down
pasture fields has resulted not only in a
greater yield of herbage, but, what is still
more important, in increasing the propor-
tions of clovers and other desirable species
of fodder plants —and so the meat- or milk-
yielding potentialites of the lands. And
meat or milk that is made on grass, costs
much less per pound than that made m the
stall or pen.”
. To promote the practice of top-dressing,
the Department of Agriculture is running
competitions. “Bonuses of four dollars an
acre, up to a maximum of 100 acres in a
competition, will be available to contestants.
It is provided that “the treated areas, must
adjoin other pasture lands not fertilised,
so that the results may easily be seen.”
DUSTY SHEEP-YARDS.
“Murrawong” ;■ If it is humanly possible
to allay dust in sheep-yards, either by lay-
ing down waterpipes from a convenient
supply or by watercart and hose, the result
will be in the owner’s favor and will be
reflected in the wool prices, low as they are.
Few owners appear to worry about the dis-
comfort to the men toiling in choking
clouds of dust, or to work out how much
more a man would be capable of under
better conditions. In addition to the direct
damage to the wool, bacteria of all the
transmittable sheep diseases are concentrated
in the dust of the sheep-yard. If sterilising
the yards thoroughly is out of the question,
the next- best thing is to keep that dust
from enveloping the sheep in a smothering
cloud. . .
In addition t 0 watering, receiving yards
should be provided with extra-wide, gates.
It is a common spectacle to see a big mob
of sheep jammed tight against a fence by
yelling men and barking dogs while sheer
weight of numbers propels a stream of
woollies through an opening 6ft. to 10ft.
wide. The gateway is worn deep by the
frantic passage of innumerable hoofs, dust
is inevitable, and weak sheep and lambs
are bruised and trampled in the senseless
mishandling. I saw one sheep-yard a few
months ago where the outer gates were
simply lengths of 3ft. 6in. cyclone wire-net-
ting slung from a cable of twisted No. S
wire. The gateways were 20ft. to 30ft. wide;
one end of the netting was attached to a
gatepost, the other to a light 4ft. sapling;
this was held in position on the other gate-
post and the gate strained taut by the loop
of wire and lever common to Queensland
wire gates.
The advantages of the wide gateway are
too obvious to any sheepman to be stressed
and the cost is far below that of any wooden
gate.
THESE WOOL COUNTS.
“Tops”: The complaint of “Murrawong”
(B. 23/11/’32) that the varying standards
of the wool-buying countries constitute a
nuisance to the trade will be endorsed by
many Australian wool men, especially those
concerned with the sorting end of the busi-
ness. The many different counts in vogue
are cases in point. How mixed the present
system is may be seen by the. following
table of the counts employed by Britain,
France and Germany :
WOOL COUNTS.
French. German. English.
Finisse 160 AAAA
150/160
150 AAA/AAAA
Elector 90’s
140 AAA , 80’s
130/140 AAA/AA
135 AAA/AA 80/70’s
130 AA/AAA 76’s
125/130
125 AA 74’s
120 AA/A 06/70’s
115/120
115 A/AA 66’s
110/115 64’s spinners
110 Good A 64’s
105/110 Regular A 60/64 or super
64’s
105
100/110 A 64’s (ordinary)
100 A/B 60’s (good)
Strong A 60’s
A 60’s . (Come-
backs)
A/B sS’s/60’s
(Comebacks)
Prime Merino B 60’s (Come-
backs)
P/1 B 58’s
B/C 56/58 s
1 Cl 56/58’s
2 C 2 50/56’s
2/3 C 50’s
C 46’s
_ CD 46/50’s
_ D 1 48’s
lir/IV D 2 44’s
D 4u/46 s
V E 3.6’s
. E/EE • 36/40’s
VI EE and britches 32’s
One would have thought, since wool is
marketed by nearly every country in the
world, that the leading nations at least
would have evolved a general standard, but
the foregoing shows how the three great
European buyers agree to differ. Other
buyers have variations of their own. Others
again rely on rule-of-thumb methods.
FOOT-ROT OF SHEEP.
Veterinary Officer Talbot, writing in the
Vic. “Journal of Agriculture,” warns sheep-
farmers that foot-rot is extremely infectious,
and may be carried and spread from
paddock to paddock or farm to farm.
“If this,” he says, “were recognised by
all, and if isolation and proper treat-
ment of affected animals were rigidly
practised, in a few years the disease would
cease, to be the menace to the industry that
it is to-day.” lie adds that “rich pastures
of heavy-carrying capacity are favorable to
the spread of the disease, and the finer-
woolled sheep are more susceptible than
some of the British breeds.”
According to Mr. Talbot, “the first symp-
tom is slight lameness, which rapidly be-
comes worse. At the beginning of an out-
break only one or two sheep will be affected,
but in a short time fresh cases will be
noticed every day: The tissue immediately
above the cleft of the hoof, either back or
front, is swollen and painful, inflammation
spreads rapidly, and in a little while the
skin breaks down, and a foul-smelling dis-
charge is emitted. By this time the animal
' will be extremely lame. Unless treatment
is adopted, it will not be long before the
wool becomes fouled with the discharge, and
in hot weather this will soon be struck by
flies.
“Treatment, to be effective, must be given
as early as possible. Isolation is essential.
Where individual treatment is practicable,
. feet must be thoroughly cleansed, and dis-
eased and loose horn and tissue and proud
flesh cut away. Abscesses should be opened
and drained of pus. All hoof parings and
dead tissue should be burnt. Then a dress-
ing should be applied, a paste prepared by
stirring into 1 quart of warm Stockholm
’ tar 2oz. of finely-powdered bluestone and
1 tablespoonful of lysol or monsol. Put on
foot with a brush. Other dressings are 6oz. of
bluestone mixed with 1 gallon of water , and
1 part of formalin to 9 parts of water;
whichever of these mixtures is • used, hold
the sheep so that its feet will remain im-
mersed for a few minutes. Treatment should
be repeated daily until a cure is effected.
“On large properties the use of a foot-
bath is necessary. If foot-bath treatment is
preferred by the small sheep-farmer,” Mr.
Talbot says, “a satisfactory bath can be
easily constructed ■ by taking three 10ft.
lengths of 6in. x ljin. softwood. These are
nailed tightly together to form a trough,
the ends being closed with small, pieces of
timber. Sides 3ft. high, sloped out to be
lft. lOin. apart at the top, are attached to
the trough, or a temporary hurdle staked
into the ground may be used for the pur-
pose.” According to this authority, ‘ excel-
lent results have been obtained by running
sheep through a formalin foot-bath (10 p.c.
solution), allowing the feet to drain, and
then making the animals stand on air-slaked
lime, until the hoofs are dry. On properties
where foot-rot occurs periodically the inci-
dence of the disease may be reduced appre-
ciably if the animals are passed through a
foot-bath at short intervals (every ten days
or so) throughout the winter and spring. ’
DEHORNING O*E CATTLE.
“V.S.M.”: If the Dehorning of Cattle
Bill, now before the House of Reps., becomes
law, dehorning will in time become the com-
mon practice in Maori!and for all except
show animals. The bill does not specifically
say that cattle must be dehorned, but makes
it an offence to put horned cattle in any
railway vehicle, railway yard, public sale-
yard or yard attached to any slaughtering
place, or to take them from their pastures
to any of these places. This means that an
owner is at liberty not to dehorn so long
as he keeps the animals on his own property,
and there is nothing to prevent him shift-
ing them by road direct to a new owner.
For the benefit of those who object to the
sawing or cutting off of horns and prefer the
use of caustic potash on the budding horn
of the calf, exemption is provided for ani-
mals born before August 1. Apparently
horns are not regarded as dangerous weapons
until animals reach 2i years of age; cattle
while under that age, may be allowed to
wear them. Herd-book animals are exempted
on account of the points allotted to horns
in the show ring.
The only objections to the bill coming
from cattlemen are from large runholders,
who point to the difficulty of. rounding up
and dehorning. Their objections are met
largely by the provision that they need not
dehorn till the cattle are leaving their
stations. There is, of course, the usual out-
cry about cruelty ; but this is what the bill is
designed to prevent, since the suffering
caused to one another by horned beasts in
yards, trucks and paddocks is far greater
than the pain from the dehorning operation.
At any rate horns cause a greater loss in
milk yield, and value of hide than does their
removal.
BANANA-PACKING HINTS.
“Cog” : Handle your fruit carefully before
packing. Brushing bunches through weeds
and the like, throwing or dropping of hands
after cutting off, cause blemishes and bruises
to show up on ripened fruit.
Grade fruit into heaps before starting to
pdek. This simplifies your grading and is
conducive to faster and better packing. And
don’t rupture ends when breaking off.
Damaged tissues mean “black-ends” when
ripened.
Discard bruised, blemished or immature
fruit. If you don’t the retailer will, and it
will be the worse, for you, especially if you
fill centres with smaller fruit. Spike centres
with the same grade of fruit as the rest
of the case and with all the fruit it can
hold. You will find it will pay. A good
name is worth a lot of money in glutted
markets.
Don’t use short nails for lids. Longer
nails cost little extra, but ensure your fruit
arriving intact. And don’t neglect a bulge.
Don’t pack without raising the bottom of
the case from the ground. This ensures, an
even bulge top and bottom.
Don’t pack fruit less than x 4in.
If you do you are going to be prosecuted.
Lastly, if you are a Queenslander write'to
the Agricultural Department for its pamph-
let on packing and grading. It’s a rattling
good pamphlet, and it will cost you nothing.
WE IMPORT ALMONDS !
The almond thrives in most parts of
South Aus., and in the irrigation districts
of N. S. Wales and Victoria as well as of
the Central State. It seems ridiculous that
Australia should depend on other countries
with (in some cases) less suitable conditions
for almonds, almond paste and meal; but it
actually imported £95,500 worth in 1929-30.
With the laudable idea of increasing pro-
duction, the S. Aus. Department has re-
printed a very useful bulletin prepared by
Chief Horticultural Inspector Quinn. Copies
can be got by South Australians for a tup-
penny stamp. Quick returns. the almond
does not give; but, says Mr. Quinn, “an
appreciable quantity of almonds should bo
gathered about the fifth year after planting.
From thence onwards the yields increase,
until about, the tenth to twelfth year a good
average is reached.” Moreover, the blossom-
ing almond is a thing of beauty, and the
trees make good windbreaks.
(Continued on next page.)


Is*
stars
':A
Made for the horseman
Every rider appreciates the snug,
smooth fit... . the suppleness and
easy feel ’. .. . t'he smart appear-
ance of the Abbey Riding Boot. It’s
shaped to your f00t.... with stout
elastic ankle-pieces that increase
resilience. The upper is lined with
soft leather, but there’s not 1 one
raised seam inside. And the sole is
made of the toughest leather obtain-
able.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length and order, also, a
tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF . . 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW GEORGE
STREET ADDRESS No. 316
ALMOST DIRECTLY OPPOSITE
THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 312
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
“The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from "The Bulletin" Office,
all States.
Auction Sale.
PRELIMINARY NOTICE.
AUCTION SALE
of the WELL KNOWN and
HIGHLY IMPROVED
“CLYDESDALE” ESTATE
MIDWAY BETWEEN
PARRAMATTA and RICHMOND,
NEW SOUTH WALES,
so well known as home of the late
J. A. BLCKLAND,
comprising 1450 ACRES.
In Three Portions, if required. _
534 ACRES with HOMESTEAD extensively
improved with MAIN ROAD and
PERMANENT CREEK FRONTAGES.
365 ACRES Grazing and Cultivation.
FARM BUILDINGS and COTTAGE,
Permanent Creek.
551 ACRES Bush and Cleared Land,
COTTAGE and OUTBUILDINGS.
Permanent Creek.
Approached from main WESTERN or
RICHMOND LINES.
TORRENS. Fullest particulars from the
AUCTIONEER,
W. F. JAGO, Parramatta.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
e
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 4f Bridge Street, Sydney.
The Expert
View
Che n.Z. Referee
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
WEEKLY.
The week’s activities in Racing,
Trotting, Horse Breeding, Boxing,
Wrestling, Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and Whippet Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers.
Exclusive features in the “Referee
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman’s Radio Log giving the
week’s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
“Referee” leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Head Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
Hi
■HHHMP 11
■i
6
D.
EACH
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
è
WRITE FOR OUR
No. 329 CATALOGUE
OF SADDLERY,
WHIPS. HARNESS,
COLLARS, etc.
INEXPENSIVE STATION
STOCK SADDLE
The No. 130 “STOCKRIDER”
This Saddle, with its hogskin seat and
firm capped ltneepads, is exceptional value
for the money.
PRICE, BARE, £5/2/6
Leathers, 6/-; Girth, 5/-; and Good N.P.
Irons, 6/6 extra —£6 complete.
Freight Paid for Cash with Order to Any
N.S.W. Railway Station.
No. 146—Ring Head Bridle, lin. Reins, with Ring Bit, 12/-
Postage 1/-
No. 45—Plain Hide Saddle Pouch, 6/9. Postage, 1/-
Enougli Collar Check for saddle cloth, 5/6 or 7/6 per yard.
All above Freight Free if sent with saddle.
6t w&t
WHlP*>o^>
K’BURRA
STOCKWHIPS
are Kangaroo Leather
right through with inner
plaited belly and there are
none better.
K’BURRA WHIP HANDLES are made on Zairs Steel-lined
Foundations, built up with numerous pieces of cane, which
gives them that “feel” which you do not get in other whips.
No. 16 K’burra Whip lias 16-plait handle and Bft. 12-plait
thong, 41/6. Postage: N.S.W., 1/-; Queensland, Victoria, 1/6.
There are scores of whips in our catalogue from 9/-.
WALTHER & STEVENSON Ltd.
SADDLERS,
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
APPLE SHIPMENTS.
“4X2”: In 1929, A. 11. Paget, of Stan-
thorpe (Q.), sent a trial shipment of 100
cases of Granny Smith apples to Singapore.
The following year he shipped a thousand
cases. These evidently were appreciated
“East of Suez,” as the 1931 shipment was
5000 cases, which rose to 9000 in 193*. •
Attractive labelling combined with caretul
grading and packing is the secret-points
which have been stressed repeatedly by
Bulletin contributors in the Straits Settle-
ments. Already 5000 cases are on order for
next season. *
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) How can I destroy weevils in a bin
containing 60 bags of wheat? (2) Would
these vermin be the cause of the fowls not
eating the wheat when it is given to them?
—3469. „ .
(1) Have sent you a leaflet on ‘Fumiga-
tion for Weevil.’’ (2) Fowls will eat
weevily wheat, but where it is heavily
infested —as apparently in your case —it is
unpalatable to the birds, and is likely to be
harmful, especially to young poultry.
I am building a small silo of tin, with a
cement floor. How can I prevent moisture
rising through the floor? —2767.
Moisture will not come through a con-
crete floor that has been properly laid. The
floor should be made 4in. thick with a mix-
ture of one part cement, three parts sand and
five of metal broken to fin. gauge. This
should be covered while it is still damp
to a thickness of 4in., with a mortar con-
sisting of one part cement to two parts of
clean, sharp sand. Trowel to a smooth
surface and keep covered with wet bags for
three days.
(11 Is the raising of squabs for market
profitable? (2) Average price per pair
Sydney and Melbourne, and do they find a
ready market? (3) Any book on the subject?
(4) Where can stock be obtained? (5) At
what, age are the birds fit for sale? —334B.
(1) Many attempts have resulted in
failure. (2) Up to about 2s. 6d. per pair.
The demand is very limited. (3) Anthony
Hordern and Son, Sydney, stock such books.
(4) Get in touch with R. E. Goddard, 1
Ada-street, Concord, N.S.W. (5) At about
four weeks old.
(1) What are the prospects for citrus-
growing near Sydney? (2) What return
could be expected from 10 acres of navels
and valencias? (3) Price of suitable land?
—3198.
(1) Not attractive for oranges and man-
darins, as yields per tree are too low to be
profitable. AVith lemons, success could 'be
attained provided a well-drained soil situ-
ated beyond the frost zone is obtainable.
(2) A return of up to £5O per acre over
and above cost of production may be
obtained with efficient management. (3)
£25 to £lOO per acre.
Short, description of mangosteen: color,
size, general appearance, interior seeds,
flavor? —3197.
The plant, which is indigenous to Malaya,
is a moderate-sized, conical tree with large
leathery leaves. The fruit is globular, purp-
lish brown, with heavy skin, about the size
of an apple. It is famed as one of the most
delicious fruits of the tropics, resembling
in flavor strawberries and grapes. The
delicate white melting juicy pulp surround-
ing and adhering to, the seed is the part
eaten. The thick rind contains tannic acid
and a dye. The tree is very slow of growth
and does not usually come intp bearing until
at least nine or 10 years old, and then takes
several more years to attain full size. Propa-
gation is usually by seed, and the plants
are planted out after two years’ growth.
Arc alligator pears ( avocado ) grown in
Australia? Would it pay me, if they are
not, to import quantities from overseas? —
3090.
The taste is an acquired one and the
demand for this fruit is limited to those
who appreciate it. Importation of supplies
is not likely to be profitable. The pear
is grown in Queensland and N. S. Wales,
and the supply is likely to exceed the
demand for some time to come. ,
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“W.J.AA 7 .” : Tile drains are cheaper in the
long run than open ditches. To drain an
acre with 15yd. intervals, you need approxi-
mately 1000 ft. of tiles. You can get 3in.
at £9 per 1000 ft. in Westralia, and
they’re large enough where the lines are
less than 500 ft. in length. Instead of per-
mitting each lateral to discharge directly
into' the outlet ditch, it is advisable to con-
struct a main running parallel with it. The
expense is not much greater, and there is
an advantage in having only one outlet to
look after.
“Wi”: To stretch a hide for rope-making
use a dray or sulky tyre. Spread hide out
with hair up, and place tyre over it so that
it covers the best parts. Pull loose ends
together with wire and stand it in the shade
until nearly dry. Scrape off all surplus
matter, wash with warm water and rub
kerosene soap well into it. This makes the
hide pliable for working. AVhen drawn tight
cut round inside rim of tyre.
“Clarpen”: Don't use a teat dilator (B.
16/11/’32) ; the risk is too great. To soften
the muscle at the end of the teat, draw out
about a dozen streams of milk to lubricate
it, then take the end of the teat between
the palms of the hands and roll it gently
so as not to bruise the muscle or break the
skin surrounding it; this massaging is
generally effective. My own cure for a
‘‘tough” cow is strong-handed milking if she
is a good one; if not, get rid of her.
“Bill R.”: To remove an obstruction
from the gullet of a bovine bone-chewer,
first place a maul ring transversely in the
beast’s mouth. With the hand .and arm
pushed through the ring the obstruction can
then be reached, and there’s no danger of
a bite.
“Yet.”: For a sleeve over bandages on .
the sore legs of animals a piece of old motor
inner tube is excellent. Wrapped round and
glued with the solution used for punctures
the rubber will keep the bandages in place
and they won’t tear on sticks and bushes.
It is easily cut off when changing is
necessary.
“Dimon”: A piece of an inner tube makes
a comfortable inner sole for heavy boots,
and is good for tightening loose tool-heads,
such as the adze, hoe, etc., for which basil
or the tongue of a boot is commonly used.
“Sylvester”: The man who grows an
occasional crop for market should grow*
something that is useful for pig feed. If the
market slumps Denis will put it to some
profit for him.
“A. J. 8.”: Dorset Horn rams beget a suit-
able lamb for export, but only up to about
five months at the outside. After that he
grows very coarse and “sheepified.” The
Southdown, Ryeland and Shropshire retain
their lamb characteristics well after six
months.
“A. 0.8.”: When planting small lots of
lucerne or such vegetable seed as carrot or
parsnip, burn ti-tree or small . bushes or
rubbish in the rows before sowing. Weed
seeds are thus destroyed and the seed planted
will germinate quicker. With lucerne-seed
so planted I have gained tw 7 o weeks.
“Telia”: If you want to save seed from
especially good cabbage or cauliflower, cut
the head when matured for table, and, leav-
ing the stalk in the ground, split it longi-
tudinally into four parts about three inches
down. The plant will make new growth and
shortly run to seed.
“Gres”: Difficulty is often experienced in
entering wedges in sappy timber. Rub gritty
dirt (sand, if procurable) on wedges and
wood ; and remember, the lighter you. hit
the sooner the w T edge will be home.
“Bushman” : If you can’t afford paint for
the shack, try plain w r ood-preserving oil that
costs about 2s. a gallon. It gives a decent
brown finish and checks ants and borers.
Apply with a garden syringe.
“Gardener”: I have found pulping toma-
toes better than preserving them whole; it
takes less space, and all small stuff and sun-
burnt fruit can be utilised. Immersed in
boiling water, skins will slip off. Adding
a little salt, boil the lot, stirring frequently
in their own juice in a preserving pan to
a thick pulp. Pour into glass jars, which
should be warmed and placed on a wet cloth.
Screw down like ordinary preserves, or the
tops of the jars may have melted wax or
mutton fat poured over them. Don’t use
tins.
“Tena”: If you want a small, profitable
bed of rock-melons try this way: After
well-manuring the bed, plant the seed in
rounds, about six to a round. In the middle
of each round sink a tin that has had fair-
sized holes punched in i-t around the sides.
Pill tin three times a week with liquid
cow-manure. Pinch melons hard ahead of
all fruit setting, and you should have a
good crop.
“Cliook Rancher”: Take a stroll round
the brooders before turning in. If the
youngsters are singing out investigate
further. They will be huddled together if
the temperature is low, or well spread out
if it’s too high. Dower or raise the lamp
flame accordingly.
“Wilga”: A Lithgow (N.S.W.) woman,
when peeling potatoes for cooking, cut a
lump off the small end of pointed tubers,
dipped them in ashes and put them by. The
discarded part was too small to peel for
cooking, but contained a couple of eyes.
Rater on she planted them, and got a good
crop of potatoes—a profitable return from
waste ends.
“Sylvester”: Many people nail weather-
boards too low. They should be nailed so
as to just miss the board below.
“Jumbuck”: Almost since the advent of
sheep into north-west Queensland, graziers
have been imbued with the notion that the
only suitable types to run were small-framed
and jine-woolled. Quality of the wool was
the outstanding feature; little regard was
paid to weights per head cut. Pro-
longed droughts have, 'however, altered the
minds of graziers, and when seasonal con-
ditions admit of re-stocking they will go
in fpr more robust types carrying a stronger-
quality wool. Already a few owners have
introduced Corriedale rams into their flocks.
The introduction of stronger-woolled merinos
is not likely to have a bad effect on quality;
the tendency for wool to get finer in hot
climates will operate. The South Aus. type
should fit in with north-west Queensland
conditions. Wrinkly sheep were long ago
discarded as failures.
“A.F.S.”: A South Burnett (Q.) farmer,
being short of pumpkins, corn and other
summer feed for pigs, put in a paddock of
Sudan grass. The growth was quick and
abundant, and the pigs took to it. He is
now convinced that grazing is the best
method of feeding stores. He has found
that green oats is excellent winter fodder
for pigs. Other South Burnett farmers have
fed arrowroot, sugar-cane, sorghum and sac-
caline to growing pigs with success. They
mostly have upwards of 50 cows, so there is
plenty of milk for the pigs, and grasses pro-
vide the filling.
“V. B. Emm”: Ordinary pasture grass
may be made drought-resistant by inducing
deep-rooting; at least, this is suggested
by a discovery made by a Government
instructor in agriculture at Gisborne (M.L.).
On farms heavily silted by flood in Febru-
ary he found that recently-sown pasture,
principally certified perennial ryegrass and
white clover, had sent roots through depths
of silt ranging from 12in. to 18in. to the
old soil surface, where they fed on cow
droppings or artificial fertilisers, there at
the flooding. The instructor suggests that,
instead of fop-dressing after a newly-sown
pasture is established? the fertiliser should
be either ploughed or disked deeply into the
soil before sowing the seed, thereby encour-
aging deep-rooting.
“Te Awamutu”: “J. Point” tells the age
of an egg (B. 9/11/’S2) by floating it in
water; “an egg two or three days old will
sink, but not to the bottom.” This spoils
the whole prescription. If it sinks the
smallest vulgar fraction of a hair’s breadth
it will sink to the bottom, were the liquid
ten miles deep. This holds cff egg, man,
submarine or nsli.


“THE 'WILD CAT' MONTHLY"
December Issue Now Ready
Douglas Credit.
War Debts and the Investor.
Are Stocks Overvalued?
The Market Outlook.
Capital Reconstructions.
Rights of Pref. Shareholders.
These and many other questions o£
vital interest to investors will be
discussed in the December issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEU ANNUM, 22/6
Prom Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
fcyuney, -Melbourne, Brisbane, Ad< laitle,
Peitli, Wellington (N.Z.).
James Murphy Bursaries
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
tenable at either
(a) The University of Sydney
providing all tuition fees (if chargeable) and £7O per annum
towards the cost of residence at St. John’s College
OR
(b) Hawkesbury Agricultural College
providing £4O per annum towards fees, residence, etc.
Applications are invited for the above Fwrsaries, made
available under the will of the late James Murphy _, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enable their
sons to study Agricultural Science, and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the
University of Sydney or of entrance to Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
fn°o'o' S ■ of ju A P plication (which must be returned duly completed not later than stli January.
® t,le caSe of Bursaries tenable at Hawkesbury Agricultural College, and not later than
10th February, 1933, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further
particulars may be obtained from
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. • .
The service is entirely free. All you have, to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Tas., kindergarten teacher, piano,
violin and French, wants position as governess. Refs.
—3456.
Young man (26), good bush cook, would like to
accompany person motoring to Northern Territory
or South Aus. Would pay part fare. Refs.—339o.
Adelaide public accountant is prepared to repre-
sent business houses in other States.—34ol.
Young lady (23), Sydney, wants position as typist
or office assistant.—34lB.
Lonely prospector, North Queensland, would like to
correspond with readers who have magazines, books
or papers to spare.—34B9.
To buy prospector’s small gold scales with
weights.—3473.
To buy “The New Idea” for May, 1932. —3422.
To buy “Lady Chatterly’s Lover,” by D. 11.
Lawrence.—3 415.
To exchange “Instantaneous Personal Magnetism”
for “Sheepmates,” by Hatfield, and “Lasseter’s Last
Ride,” by Idriess, or other books of same value.
—3405.
Words of verses, “Hone Te Hiki Te Rangiti Mau”
and “The Eleven-sixty-nine.”—34s2.
Reader would welcome bundle of unwanted recent
“Times Literary Supplements.” Will pay postage.
—3453.
Copy of N.S.W. Agric. Dept.’s bulletin on “Pise
Construction,” now out of print.—277l.
Information Sought.
(1) When is the new Papuan stamp issue
to come out? (2) What values are to be
included? (3) Name of designer? (4)
Where printed? (5) Will these stamps be
overprinted for air-mail and official use? —
3419.
(1) The issue took place last month, and
the stamps are available in Australia. (2)
Usual values up to Is., also Is. 3d., 25., 2s.
6d., 55., 10s. and £l. (3) F. E. Williams,
Government Anthropologist, Port Moresby,
and E. Whitehouse. Some of the designs
are from photographs taken by F. E. Wil-
liams and Gibson. (4) Melbourne. (5)
It is probable that some of the values will
be overprinted, but no definite information
is available.
I have been painting landscapes in the
country for some years. (1) Would it be
possible for me to have a one-man show?
(2) How are they arranged? (3) Approxi-
mate cost?- —3400.
(1) Yes, but you would find it difficult
to get a dealer to handle your work unless
it has appeared in some of the exhibitions
arranged by the established art societies.
(2) Send a few samples of your work to
the Macleod Gallery or any Sydney dealer,
so that an estimate can be made of whether
it would pay to run a show for you. (3)
Some guarantee is usually x-equired of an
unknown artist to cover the rent, lighting,
attendance, printing, etc. For a show of
50 oils and water-colors, with a unified
moulding for the framing, framing, glazing
and transport should cost about £l5.
What were the aims of the Young Eng-
land movement, and who were its origi-
nators?—3447.
In 1842 a section of the English Conser-
vative party began a movement whose spirit
and aim are well shown in Disraeli’s “Con-
ingsby.” The author of this novel and Lord
John Manners, Duke of Rutland, were the
chief leaders of the movement, which aimed
at a revival of the mediaeval relations be-
tween the upper and lower classes, as an
antidote to the rapid spread of democratic,
principles.
(1) Is a widow of 74, possessing her own
house, but with no other means, eligible
for the old-age pension? (2) Does filling
in the'new Government forms mean that the
Federal Government will seize the property
on her death, in return for payment of the
pension? (3) What is the idea of Form
43?—3256.
(1) Yes, if she resides in the house and
has resided in the Commonwealth for 20
years continuously. (2) The Financial Emer-
gency Act, 1932, provides that all old-age
or invalid pension paid from 13/10/’32
onwards shall be recoverable, after death,
from a pensioner’s estate. Provision is
made for clemency in cases where such
recovery would cause hardship to sui'viv-
ing relatives. (3) It is an xxndei-taking
by pensioner that he or she will not
transfer or mortgage any real property, or
any estate: or interest therein of which he
or she is or may become the owner, except
with the consent of the Commissioner of
Pensions.
(1) Hoiv is liquid air made? (2) Its
critical temperature? (3) Critical pressure?
(4) Uses? —3458.
(1) By successively compressing and
cooling air in a triple-effect series, the last
effect being intensified by cooling the com-
pressed air by expansion of a portion that
is allowed to escape. (2) and (3) It can-
not be liquefied above 170 deg. C. absolute,
and the corresponding pressure is about 40
atmospheres. (4) It will purify chloroform,
alcohol and ether by the elimination of im-
purities in the process of crystallisation.
(1) Why is it usual to employ very high
voltages when transmitting electrical energy
over great distances? Could this not be
done equally well with a voltage of, say,
500 rattier than 60,000? (2) Why is A.C.
used in preference to D.C.? —3441.
(1) The higher the voltage the smaller is
the permissible cross-section of the trans-
mission line, and the smaller the cost. (2)
A.C'. is easier to convert from one voltage
to another than D.,C.
Method of smoothing an etching which
has been badly creased in packing? —33B3.
If the paper is only creased and not
cracked or torn, it can be restored by soak-
ing in clean cold water in a flat-bottomed
vessel for two or three hours. Take from
bath and pin out on a clean fiat board with
large-headed drawing-pins. Start to pin
from the centre of the top, then the centre
bottom and then the middle of each side.
Pull the print gently while pinning, and
work outward to the corners, placing the
pins at intervals of lin. If the margin will
allow, cut the print from the pins when
dry by running a sharp knife all round the
print.
What ivas the origin of the Red Page of
The Bulletin?— 3343.
Until the end of August, 1894, the inside
of the front cover carried advertisements.
On Sept. 1, 1894, there appeared a page
headed “Books of the Day,” an advertise-
ment for “The Bulletin Book Exchange,”
one of the paper’s sidelines. The heading
was afterwards changed to the “The Bul-
letin Book Exchange” and the feature was
continued until Feb. 22, 1896. During the
period there is evidence of a tendency
towards criticism of the books offered fox-
sale. On Feb. 29, 1896, the featux-e was
replaced by a page of reviews and para-
graphs entitled “Literary Items.” This head-
ing was employed, with an occasional change
to “Items” and “Chiefly About Books,” until
Aug. 1, 1896. The following week the head-
ing was “For the Red. Page,” and on Aug.
29, 1896, this was shortened to the present
title.
(1) In building a new wharf with tur-
pentine piles and unseasoned hardwood
stringers and wakings, is it necessary to coat
pile heads and hardwood with tar? (2)
What time should be allowed for drying of
sap in hardivood? —3oll.
(1) It used to be the practice, but is now
considered unnecessary. (2) No definite
timeis stated in the Sydney Harbor Trust’s
specification, and timber is very often used
immediately on arrival from the mills. It
is essential, that sapwood be removed from
hardwood timber before being used.
Is a N.S.W. municipal council empowered
to levy a special rate on the unimproved
value of property for water supply or other
purposes without first consulting ratepayers?
If so, what is the maximum rate that can
be charged, and is a council in order in
fixing a minimum charge for each \-acre
block, irrespective of its unimproved value?
—2967.
One-fifth of the ratepayei's have the right
to petition for a poll on the question whether
the rate shall be levied on the unimpx-Oved
or improved capital value; the council
must take the poll and abide by the result.
Ratepayers cannot veto the levying of such
rates; they can only determine the basis.
Any council which levies water, sewerage
or drainage i;ates may prescribe a minimum
amount applicable to each sepai-ate parcel
of land. In a municipality (with which you
are apparently concerned) the maximum
amounts of rates which may be levied are:
(1) General rate alone: a sum equivalent to
the sum of the products of 2d. in the £ on
U.C.V. and Is. 6d. in the £ on A,A.V. of a'll
rateable land. (2) All rates (except water
and .sewerage local rates) : a sum equivalent
to the sum of the products of 2d. in the £
on the U.C.V. and 2s. in the £ on the
A.A.V. of all rateable land. (3) Water
local rate alone: a sum equivalent to the
product of 2s. in the £on A.A.V. (4)
Sewerage local rate alone : a sum equivalent
to the product of 2s. in the £ on A.A.V.
(1) 'Number of European traders in the
Trobriands? State of pearling industry
there? Number of natives in the group?
Any gold? Could a man make a living? (2)
Mining prospects on Woodlark and Misima?
Cost of miners right for both places? Native
population? Can a white man live on the
country? —2339.
(1) There are three or four resident
European traders in the Trobriands who,
owing to the world depression, are barely
making a living. Pearls are practically
unsaleable, and the price of beche-de-mer is
very low. Trochus-shell is bringing a fair
price, but not much of it is found in Trob-
riands waters. Native population is about
8800. There is no gold. A European could
not make a living there at present. (2)
There, are some miners at work on Wood-
lark with claims of their own, but none on
Misima. A miner’s right (10s.) can be
obtained at Port Moresby, Samarai, Wood-
lark or Misima which gives the necessary
prospecting rights for Woodlark (or for
anywhere else in the Territory). Native
population of Woodlark is over 1000; of
Misima, about 2800. A white man cannot
live on the country.
(1) Has the wealth of Australia ever
totalled £6,000,000,000? (2) What is the
annual income of Australia? —3219.
(1) The last estimate of the total private
wealth of Australia made for June, 1929,
gave a total of £3,350,000,000. It is cer-
tainly much lower in 1932. (2) There are
no official statistics. Estimates which in-
volve a good deal of guessing are: 1928-29,
£645,000,000; 1929-30, £566,000,000; 1930-
31, £460.000,000; 1931-32, £430,000,000.
How to remove a mottled appearance on
the inside faces of the lenses in field-glasses?
—3237.
The mottled appearance is due to a growth
of fungus which generates an acid that
etches the surface of the glass slightly. It
is impossible to remove this, except by re-
polishing, which unless done by an expert
would ruin the binoculars. You can treat
the glass with strong nitric acid to destroy
the fungus and Spores.
If a N.S.W. shire council has struck a
rate, and the ratepayers have paid it, can
the council Strike an additional rate for
the same purpose and come on the ratepayer
again? —3o2o.
A shire council may levy special rates
for special purposes or local rates for water
supply, sewerage and other purposes bene-
fiting portion only of the shire at any time
during each calendar yeai\ whether or not
other rates have previously been levied dur-
ing the year.
What is a plasterer's jelly mould? What
is it made of, used for, and how is it worked?
Any books on the subject? —33o9.
Jelly moulding is an out-of-date method
of making plaster ceilings, cornices, mould-
ings, etc., for decorating interiors. A per-
fectly level steel table is required, and on
this an area is marked off in the required
size, and surrounded with low walls of
wood to represent the tray of the mould.
The table and wood are rubbed with soft
soap and about a quarter of an inch depth
of mixture poured in, the jelly beiug com-
posed of rough plasterers’ gelatine and size,
melted over heat with a little water to keep
it from burning. When this layer of jelly
has set, the wooden pattern of the design
or object is placed face down on it, and
more jelly is poured in until the pattern is
sufficiently immersed, when it is allowed to
set. When dry and hard, the wooden piece is
removed, its impression forming the jelly
mould, which is then filled with a mixture of
plaster of Paris and lime, criss-crossed with
bits of plasterers’ string for strengthening,
the plaster mixture being made to a creamy
consistency with water. When dry, the
plaster cast is levered out and erected, the
mould being used again unless it has become
damaged. The jelly may be melted and
used again. If you wish to try it, better
get a lesson from a plasterer. Don’t know
of any books.
I have a D.C. ammeter designed to read
up to 0.5 amps, which I intend to use in an
accumulator-charging circuit carrying a cur-
rent of 4 amps, maximum. What alterations
will be necessary? —3soo.
Connect a resistance capable of carrying
a current of 41 amps, across the meter ter-
minals. whose value is such that when the
meter takes | amp. the resistance will take
41 amps. To fulfil this condition, the re-
sistance must be given a value of one-ninth
the ammeter resistance. The scale readings
on the instrument must then be multiplied
by 10 to get the value of the current.
Brief Answers.
T.E.L.: “Sluggish liver” is not a medical
term. If constipation or biliousness is meant, the diet
should include a lot of green salad vegetables, fruit,
etc. Exercise is important, provided the physical
condition of the patient allows it. Vitamins are
found in milk, eggs, cheese, etc., and these foods are
of value in most conditions. No particular foods
are to be avoided. .. .T.L.G.: The duties of
the Lord Mayor at a reception to a distinguished
visitor would include making a speech of welcome.
His remarks would be supported by a member of the
council, and the visitor would then reply. A useful
book is Pitman’s “Public Man’s Guide”. .. .T.L.G.:
Each House of the Commonwealth Parliament has its
own standing orders regarding witnesses called to
the bar. If either House desired further informa-
tion on any bill or matter before it that House
could agree to summon a" person or persons who
might (on examination) afford it the information
required. The question could be initiated in either
House by a motion or by petition.... E.W.: The
“Evening Post,” established on May 25, 1863, was
the first evening journal published in Ballarat.
Cannot ascertain the names of the staff... .C.P.'
Delfridge, Ltd., corner Hay and Milligan streets,
Perth, will be able to quote for your requirements.
... .R.W.: Crawford’s “Ave Roma Immortalis” (18s.
6d.) and Burnell’s “Rome” (12s. 6d.) .. . .H.C.S.:
Write to Perth antique dealers. .. .M.D.: (1) Lord
Nelson, on boarding the San Carlo. (2) Words-
worth. (3) Sir R. B. Stephens. .. .R.A.C.: If in
mint condition the coins are worth (1) 355. each,
(2) 255., (3) 25s G.H.S.: Improbable that
the Farmers’ Relief Bill will affect the
question of overdue wages except in so far as it
might provide the means of paying them. There
is no present reason why it should affect the
validity of a share-farming agreement... .E.D.S.:
Write Child Welfare Dept., Bridge-street, Sydney....
A.S.: The N.S.W. Dividing Fences Act does not apply
to the building of a retaining wall, but if you
have agreed to pay half the cost you must abide
by your undertaking. . . .W.J.M.M.: The contract
itself has not lapsed, but actions on simple con-
tracts, generally, must be commenced and sued
within six years next after the cause of such actions
and not after. Apparently your partner has made
no demand for payment nor taken any action to
recover it and it is now too late for recourse to
1aw.... J.J.D.: No paint would be of service. A
coat of hot tar applied thickly so as to fill the
cracks in the timber is suggested.... Burnie: Fix
the board and lodging at £1 a week or less, and
draw up an agreement in which you state that you
will accept domestic and other services rendered
by him in lieu of payment in cash. He should
disclose the value in any return made to the
O.A.P. department. .. .M.D.G.: You should have
tendered the marked price and demanded the book,
thus completing the offer and acceptance constitut-
ing a contract. He might, however, have sought
to avoid it in a Court of Equity on the ground of
error.... E.S.: It is not necessary to take any steps;
your property is protected by the Married Women’s
Property Act....5.F.: (1) and (2) Not without
obtaining a divorce. (3) You would have to satisfy
the Registrar in Divorce that it is a genuine case.
(4) Probably, or he would direct y0u....0.G.:
Write W.A. Chamber of Manufactures (Inc.), 101
St. George’s-terrace, Perth. .. .C.L.: There are 1280
picture theatres in Australia; 1007 are equipped
with sound... .A. 8.: The Mailey cricket team which
toured U.S.A. and Canada this year played 01
matches, won four outright and 40 on first innings,
lost one on first innings, and drew six. Bradman
scored 3779 runs during the tour. . . .N.J.: Ted
Phelps, of England, at present holds the world’s
sculling title. He won it from H. Barry
on the Thames in 1930. .. .T.M.: Brandt and
Brandt, 101 Park-avenue; Hughes, Massie and Co.,
347 Fiffh-avenue; and J. B. Pinker and Son, 101
Park-avenue—all New York.. . .N.R.: Kallibucca
means “bent tallow tree”... .E.F.: “Let her go,
Gallagher!” is an Americanism of unknown origin
traced by various persons to different sources....
J.J.: “The Silver King” was written by Henry
Arthur Jones. It was first produced in London in
1882. Wilson Barrett played the part of Wilfred
Denver, the hero... .F.R.P.: Write to E. Roy Calvert,
Secretary, National Council for the Abolition of
the Death Penalty, Parliament Mansions, Victoria-
street, London, S.W.I H.E.: There are many
mixtures, used according to the particular process
favored and result desired. Try sulphuric acid,
three to five parts, according to the age and
thickness of the print; alcohol, three to five parts;
water, 100 parts H.M.: Cannot give you exact
information until we know the purpose for which
you require the wood. .. .T.C.: Diet can help. It
must include vitamins found in green vegetables
(uncooked), fruits, milk, eggs, cheese, cod-liver oil.
etc. He should have fruit at least twice a day, and
always for breakfast. Salads for lunch, especially
in the hot weather, are advisable. Exercise is most
important when the patient lives a sedentary life.
If possible he should sleep 'out. .. .F.M.: They are
best removed by electrolysis. Other methods include
painting with various preparations, but this is not
advised without medical direction... .H.G.T.: There
are no such prescriptions available. The matter re-
quires a keen and systematic inquiry into the
health and psychology of the. patient.... H.F.: (1)
Some cases respond to a truss, but there are others
that only operative measures can cure. (2) We
know of no one G.W.: Unable to furnish par-
Some cases respond to a truss, but there are others
ticulars of illegal gambling games R.A.; “The
Laws of Contract Bridge” (4s. 3d.), obtainable
from Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney E.N.P.: (1) Information not available.
(2) There is no record of the occurrence of amber
in Australia... .J.R.F.: It is a very common token
and it is worth 6d., if in good condition
(Many others mailed.)


MEN AMONG
PEARS
By
H. Brake-Brockman
Synopsis : On the pearling grounds
beyond Broome Christopher Kent
saves the life of another pearler,
Horton, who had been attacked and
thrown overboard. In his bunk that
night he thinks of the years at Oxford,
the war years, and of his cousin Let-
tice Kent, who had jilted him. Mean-
while. in Broome, Mr. Montgomery,
an old trader, hears the news that
Captain Coer, also in the pearling
business, is to bring his daughter from.
Melbourne. Remembering the eager
little girl, Monty wonders what she
will be like now. Next morning
yoimg Peter Fordyce, who owns many
luggers, interrupts a meeting on Hor-
ton’s boat. The pearlers are discuss-
ing what should be done to Horton’s
would-be murderer when caught.
CHAPTER 111 ( Continued ).
A RATIONAL course of action at
length won the day against the blood-
thirsty desires of Horton and the
backing he received from one of the older
shell-opener owners who had lived in
Broome since the year one. They de-
cided that Fordyce should order his lugger,
provided Ah Mat was found aboard, into
Broome. Horton’s boat should follow, in
case his crew were needed as witnesses.
Fordyce, instead of finishing his round of
the grounds, would return on the schooner,
taking with him Chris and Horton, whose
condition certainly precluded his remaining
on his own lugger. Then they would see
what could be done in the local court.
Horton was undoubtedly right about one
thing; it was damned serious when the
colored men got nasty. Rotten things had
happened in the past; they might easily
happen again if Ah Mat wasn’t made an
example of.
The schooner made Entrance Point about
ten o’clock on a Saturday morning. A
blasted nuisance, Horton said, for now they
could do nothing but twiddle their thumbs
until Monday morning, although he meant
to inform the police the moment he landed.
The waters of Roebuck Bay gleamed and
shimmered in a smooth sheet of azure-jade,
disturbed only by silver-edged eddies of the
swift running tide. Low, pinky sand-hills
rising to a tiny cliff of scarlet soil, engar-
landed by emerald of mangrove, bordered
the vivid waters to the north; far away in
the south a thin line of mauve danced like
a mirage—the mangrove swamps which
formed the southern crescent of the bay.
Lazily down the coast went the schooner;
past the rocks of the Point where a little
shed still marked an abortive attempt on
the part of one man to start a nursery on
the reefs for cultured pearls, an experiment
ruthlessly stamped out by the other pearlers
with the aid of the Government; past one
or two white-winged luggers sailing out;
past the long wooden jetty, where at low-
water ships drawing twenty feet and more
lay high and dry, and tourists and such folk
squelched round on the white sea-floor,
taking snapshots of the phenomenon, to
send home; past the camps on the fore-
shore in front of the Buccaneer Arms Hotel,
where boats were laid up in the monsoon
season, and where the colored ci’ews and
most of the shell-openers lived; past the
sand-hill behind the Residency with its flag-
pole ; past the warning beacon on Buccaneer
Rocks where some declared Dampier had
buried treasure-trove nearly three hundred
years before; up the creek which bore that
sea-dog’s name, with the mangroves now
closing in, to drop anchor in the channel
off Chinatown, where long, low sheds of
iron, once white, now red with dust, lined
the shore and stored great shining heaps of
mother-of-pearl.
A wide street flanked the shell-sheds, the
far-side buildings consisting of a hotel,
Chinese and Japanese stores, and insigni-
ficant huts of offices which exotically
flaunted, in huge letters, names well-known
in Europe. Along the front of one shed
a modest notice informed the curious that
S. D. Montgomery was a buyer of M.0.P..
the prosaic trade synonym for gleaming
mother-of-pearl. In smaller print, S. D.
Montgomery notified that he also bought
Pearls and Baroque. The dealer next-door
blazoned forth in unescapable capitals a
foot high that he was Rosthena.l Freres, of
Paris and London—possibly so important
because he bought nothing but pearls. And
away behind Chinatown, all iron and wood
and dust and feathery poinciana fronds and
a graceful palm or two, stretched first the
marsh where the sea-water oozed during
the spring tides, and then the flat, sparsely-
timbered plains of Southern Kimberley,
where one or two cattle stations ran their
mobs to remind the pearlers they were' but
pebbles on the coast of a vast continent
dealing in matters more serious than any
culling of gems from the sea.
What you see in Broome depends upon
the point from which you view it. Horton,
who had knocked round from Alaska to
Maoriland, in mining camps and shear-
ing sheds and the Lord alone knew what
else, beheld nothing at all that Saturday
morning because of his anger. Ordinarily
he would have been wondering whose lugger
was in to tucker-up, and probably criticis-
ing the way the fire-wood awaiting the boat
in stacks on the beach was being carelessly
handled by the crew. Chris glanced from
the jewel-bright water to the dingy sheds,
and possibly it was a mental picture of
some Mediterranean bay, with white build-
ings of fairy-like beauty dipping to a far
less lovely sea, which made him give a sigh.
Peter Fordyce quite simply thought for
the hundredth time that a May morning in
Broome was hard to beat, and how glad
he was his mother had been content, un-
like most of the women, to stay on, to let
him return from school to manage the firm
and live a life of glorious sun-soaked free-
dom.
Before they went off in the dinghy, For-
dyce invited Chris to lunch. “You know
the mater’s always pleased to see you.”
“Thanks, old chap; I think I’ll blow
along to the Buccaneer as soon as I’ve
been round to the Johns with Horton. Per-
haps later.”
“Right-oh. Come to dinner; then we
can go down to meet the boat and see
what this precious little June Goer they’re
all yapping about is like.”
“Who?”
“Oh, I forgot you’d been outside so
long! Goer’s bringing a daughter back
from Melbourne, and the hens are cack-
ling. I’ve never heard so much excitement
over a girl—l hope she’s worth it! I
reckon we could do with a few more young
things to dance with; I get fed to the
back teeth with matrons and barmaids!
Anyhow, the Pegasus is due in to-night.”
“Well,” temporised Chris, “I’ll gladly
come to see your mother, but”
Fordyce gave a hoot of laughter. “Go it,
Chris! Good God, man, anyone would
think you were senile, to hear you talk!
All right, Horton; keep your hair on—
we’re just coming. I’ll expect you about
six,” he added to Chris, as they scrambled
into the waiting dinghy and the Koepanger
crew dipped his oars.
At nine-thirty that, evening the minia-
ture engine which drew the trucks along
rails running through the streets of the
town, and right out to the end of the
jetty, gave a series of shrill blasts to in-
form all and sundry that it was time to
turn out for the boat. The Pegasus was
bound north for Singapore; there were no
passengers from Broome, but so enticing
the night that soon nearly every seat in
the queer little carriages was filled, either
at street corner or at the siding against
the goods sheds. Greetings and jests flew
into the night as the tiny train rumbled
its way to the jetty, a crowd of cars parked
at the land end, past the white forms of
people on foot wending their way along
the decking to welcome the ship which
floated like an illuminated decoration out
on the bay.
There were not many souls aboard; a few
for Singapore; the coastal traffic, when
shake-downs would even cumber the decks,
was confined to the torrid summer months,
when all who could went South. June
Goer lent over the rail beside her father,
and stared entranced at the subdued jade
of Roebuck Bay, which not even the color-
stealing moonlight could rob of its glamor.
Little whirls of excitement, like the tide
whirls in the water, made it difficult for
her to speak. She really paid small atten-
tion to her father’s conversation, so en-
grossed was she in watching the jetty take
shape beneath the red and emerald of guid-
ing lights, in straining her ears to catch the
weird cries of colored men as two or three
luggers drifted past like insubstantial
shadows, in marvelling at the brilliance of
a huge white moon, extravagant as a stage
effect. She clutched the rail, her lips
parted by the hurry of her breath; she was
enthralled by this fantasy of the night, en-
visioning, in the glittering lights along the
foreshore, the Mecca of her childhood’s
dreams.
“Regular, crowd out to-night,” remarked
her father’s loud voice. “All come down tq
inspect you—mind
you live up to your
Dad!” June thought
he was joking. She
had not lived long
enough with Cap-
tain Goer to realise
his immense conceit,
a truth often be-
trayed in careless-
sounding words.
“Oh, I hope not!”
she answered lightly.
“Didn’t you say a
boat is quite a social
event?”
“A good excuse for a spot or two, more
like. Now you just wait here till I see if
that fool of a boy has got all our truck
ready to go ashore.”
There was some little manoeuvring, some
shouting and a few heated commands from
the captain of the Pegasus before she was
safely manipulated against the racing tide,
and berthed. The crowd on the jetty gos-
siped and smoked; more than one group
discussed June in an amazingly familiar
manner which would have filled her with
horror—so many could recollect the night
her enraged father marched up the gang-
way with a small boy under each arm, and
a little tow-haired girl stumbling up behind.
Dark coats were much in evidence; the
night was fresh. But Chris stood beside
Peter Fordyce in a crisp white suit which
showed sharply against the crowd. Not
yet did he notice the chill which seemed to
worry these tropic dwellers into imagining
winter months were cold.
“There she is!” said Peter suddenly. He
felt half-ashamed of the peculiar curiosity
he felt about this girl he could remember
seeing as a small child; so he paraded it
openly, making a jest of his real interest.
“Not too big, is she? I was afraid she
might be a strapping wench —big like the
Captain. I hate ’em too plentiful. Fair
too. Now if only she’d twist round and
let a bloke get a decent look—ah, good girl!”
June turned to meet her father as he
reappeared. She stepped back within range
of the deck .lights, and for an instant -face
and form stood out clearly as a figure on
a lighted stage. Chris studied her with a
faint interest, a sort of reflection of Peter’s.
Then a queer sensation of having seen her
somewhere before was followed by a stab
of recognition. She reminded him of Lettice!
That young, young Lettice he had loved
before the war. The same type; golden
hair, blue eyes—he felt sure a girl with
such delicate coloring must possess blue
eyes—an apple-blossom kind of English
beauty he had not seen for years. Then
he forgot his own reaction at sound of a
quick-drawn breath from Peter, and turned
round to behold him staring up like a fish
hypnotised by some brilliant light.
It was not so easy to distinguish faces
from the deck, but by this time Captain
Goer was leaning half-across the rail, yelling
greetings to different acquaintances, intro-
ducing June, to her huge embarrassment,
to nebulous persons feet below. But pre-
sently excitement overcame youthful self-
consciousness; she began to ply her father
with questions about the folk on the jetty.
Who was that man with the bandaged
head?—oh, look, surely he had rings in his
ears! And that good-looking dark woman
beside the stout man who seemed so pleased
with himself? Goer immediately said he
supposed that it must be Mrs. Government
Resident, with Tweedie. And it was. June
must remember to be particularly nice when
he introduced her—he liked to keep well
in with them, and Tweedie wasn’t a bad
old pot when he forgot about being wound
up in red tape, which wasn’t often, because
Mrs. Tweedie didn’t let him.
But June’s attention had wandered. Who
was the tall young man staring so, over
there? There he was, beside that pile of
fruit-cases—and oh, Dad, who was the one
in the nice white suit, beside him?
Fruit-cases! The Captain snorted in
disgust. And she a pearler’s daughter?
That was M.O.P. ready for shipment to
New York, some of it, no doubt, from his
own boats. Fruit-cases!.... What young
man? Why, that was Peter Fordyce; he’d
tell her more about the Fordyces later
on, but they must be moving n0w....
Another young man? Miss Impatience, did
she really like the boys so much? He
missed his daughter’s frown as he glanced
again to the jetty.
“Next Fordyce? Oh, that chap. He
ain’t exactly so young. The Honorable
Christopher Kent, that is. But he mostly
gets called Chris. Got no guts,” he added
in a careless way which left no doubt as to
Captain Goer’s opinion of the Honorable
Christopher.
June frowned again. She thought the
man in white looked extremely nice; and
she did wish Daddy wasn’t quite so—well,
loud. He never seemed like this when he
came to stay in Melbourne! Then swiftly
she suppressed such disloyal fancies—he was
a darling, and it was simply marvellous
to be coming back to Broome with him.
What a lot she would have to write about
to the boys! Suddenly she felt very sorry
for them, back there at school. How per-
fectly gorgeous it was to be grown-up at last!
June’s eyes sparkled with joy and excite-
ment as she almost ran down the gangway
in her eagerness to enter a new life.
CHAPTER IV.
Introduction to June.
The Hon. Christopher Kent awakened
with a start. He had been dreaming that
Lettice had come to Broome; he was rush-
ing up the gangway of a boat, mad with
desire to clasp her outstretched hands, to
run away with her from before the curious
crowd, when a brown-faced devil hit him
on the head with an enormous pearlshell
and he slipped into the sea. He heard
Lettice laugh, and a voice.... It was the
voice which awakened him, brought him
straight up in bed, alert and quivering as
years before he had wakened in France
at the screech of a shell flying overhead.
“To hell with the Pope!” roared the
voice. “Down with the Papists!”
Chris scrambled from beneath the
mosquito-netting and walked on to the
verandah in his pyjamas. Now he was
properly roused, he recognised that voice.
“You’re a beauty,” he called—“disturbing
my Sunday morning! What’s the gag this
time?”
Mr. Montgomery was returning from the
outside bath-house, and in singlet and pants,
with towel slung over broad shoulders, had
paused in front of one of the open bed-
room doors for no other purpose than to
yell the amazing threat which had so rudely
shattered Kent’s dream. He grinned leisurely
at the figure in pyjamas.
“High time all young things were up,”
he retorted. “That chap in there, Mc-
Swinney by name, oversleeps when I don’t
call him, and is late for Mass. He’s mov-
ing now—good enough! I forgot about
him last Sunday, and he missed his blessing
and was even late for breakfast-—and he
ticked me off like hell! Come and drink
your tea with me,” he added as a colored
man came in sight staggering beneath a
tin tray crammed with cups and saucers
piled round an immense enamel tea-pot.
The boy banged his load down on a
small table on the verandah, and proceeded
to pour out. A moment later he came to
the rail, and held out two of the thick
white cups.
“Goo’ morning, Misshr Mungummery,”
he said, grinning. “You want’m?”
Montgomery seized both cups and
marched off to the cottage. Chris jumped
over the rail of his own verandah, and a
few seconds later the two men sat down, as
they were, in Monty’s chairs, to sip the
scalding tea and smoke an early pipe.
Across the road, beyond park and fore-
shore, the wet bare sand gleamed; like
mother-of-pearl, and far out, away past
the. Pegasus standing high and dry beside
stark black piles of the jetty, the sea lay
like a strand of dew-wet gossamer caught
in the sun.
Captain Goer had taken June straight to
his bungalow when they "landed. His
domestic staff consisted of a native boy and
two gins, who looked after the garden and
did the rougher housework, but whose
culinary powers were bounded by cooking
kangaroo steak on the coals or baking a
wild turkey, feathers and all plastered in
mud, beneath the ashes of a fire; he did
not mean to alter his easy and convenient
arrangement of running down I to the
Buccaneer Arms for meals.
Mr. Montgomery, with Kent seated on
his right, had all but finished breakfast
before the Captain’s loud voice drifted
through the windows as he introduced June
to the publican and his wife. June felt a
trifle dazec| by the extraordinary uncon-
ventional town and the strangely different
father to which she had awakened. All so
queer—not a bit what she had expected—
yet in a way faintly familiar, like some for-
gotten dream. She no longer felt bewitched
by the enchantment of the previous night,
yet the unusualness of her surroundings
maintained a pleasurable tingle of excite-
ment.
Chris turned his head involuntarily when
she entered the dining-room, brilliant with
light from spaces left where wooden shutters
were pushed back to let in the breeze. Of
course he wouldn’t be so crude as to stare
in the boorish fashion of certain gentry on
the jetty; yet in spite of determination to
appear indifferent, he simply had to see if
that surprising likeness persisted at close
quarters. There was no doubt of it! The
same type—noticeable enough anywhere to
account for that sudden stab of recog-
nition. Unsophisticated, of course, and not
beautiful; a pretty child, he thought. Yet
the resemblance to Lettice clung like a
fragrance, added to an individual charm of
engaging eagerness which certainly had
never, even in her most callow days, be-
longed to his exquisite cousin. Anyone
could see that life, for June, appeared as
a marvellous adventure, a promise of days
stretching ahead in glittering sequence, just
waiting to empty a spoil of delight at her
feet.
The rasp of Mr. Montgomery’s chair be-
ing pushed back brought Chris to his feet.
“ ’Lo, Monty,” boomed Goer. “You re-
member Uncle Monty, eh, June? No one
ever forgets him. Give him a kiss for old
times.”
Mr. Montgomery stood looking down on
his courtesy niece. She’d do! Took after
mother—all but those bright blue eyes,
too bold, but mighty attractive with a shy
young woman peeping out of ’em! He
noted every detail, for all he appeared so
unobservant; petal-smooth cheeks, curves
of high young breasts showing through
clinging white silk of a jumper-suit, slender
hips, legs, slim and shapely beneath brief
skirts. And, so studying, he did not miss
the shade of dismay flitting across the
girl’s face at sight of him. He would not
do—that was obvious! Something the
matter with Uncle Monty. Not up to
expectations. He jerked his great frame
in a half-bow and jeered at Goer. “Sur-
prised at you,” he exclaimed. “Not up to
date at all! Kissin’ most insanitary prac-


Cheerio!
kU
M&k
I must hop off!
Hxibe
for instantaneous
hopping off
k
When the time for starting
comes, have the comfort of
the confidence that the en-
gine will start* Fit an EXIDE
Battery* Then when you press
the self-starter the EXIDE’S
great reserves of calm, com-
posed power will heave the
dead weight of that cold stiff
engine* Without fuss and
without failure*
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane—EXlDE BATTERY SERVICE (Q) PTY.
LTD.,; Sydney—EXlDE BATTERY SERVICE (Gibson Battle & Co. Ltd.);
Melbourne—A. P. SUTHERLAND; Adelaide UNBEHAUN & JOHN-
STONE LTD.; Perth-M. J. BATEMAN LTD.; Hobart MEDHURST &
SONS PTY. LTD.
hi
ill!
Obtainable from Exide Service
Stations or Your Garage.
Exide Service Stations give ser-
vice on every make of battery.
e you START
'When it's an
Queensland’s Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike—a widespread distribution
that is the desideratum of merchants and
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
procurable. The “Daily Mail” will get
you results. It is read by all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
wants are many and varied. Its favorable
circulation position has been definitely
established. Rates, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
tice —went out with long skirts and frizzed
hair. Simply not done these days. Ain’t
I right, Miss June?”
June blushed, laughed. “Well, it’s such a
long time since I saw you, I can’t remember
much—everything is so strange!”
And Monty, with his sharp old eyes and
extraordinary facility for understanding,
guessed that of all strange things her father
was appearing the strangest, the most diffi-.
cult to comprehend. But he contented him-
self with introducing Chris and soon went
off to his verandah, wondering if ever again
he would rouse a spark of that affection
which twelve years before a little girl had
so lavishly bestowed.
Chris lingered on at the table, glad
enough to listen to Goer’s talk of Mel-
bourne and Sydney, and at the same time
steal an occasional glance at this wraith
of Lettice come to disturb an ever-tender
memory. June ate her breakfast in silence.
There Was not another woman in th,e
dining-room, but a fair sprinkling of men,
all of whom cast curious looks in her
direction; she could not lift her eyes with-
out meeting the bright intimate glance of
a foreigner seated at the opposite table.
But most of the time she covertly returned
Kent’s inspection. How attractive he
looked! Not young, rather unfinished, like
the majority of her male acquaintances,
either too pleased with themselves to be
interested in her or else consciously em-
barrassed by her presence. Nice eyes and
teeth, she thought, and that spatter of
grey in his dark hair matched the fine lines
on his face. How could Daddy be so rude
about him! And what exciting people one
met in Broome—she had barely arrived,
yet here she was sitting at breakfast with
the Hon. Christopher Kent!
A pause in her father’s conversation
enabled June to put a question she had
been longing to ask ever since she heard
that name. “Mr. Kent, I’d love to know
if you’re related to Lady Lettice Kent?”
Chris turned to her with a delighted
smile. “I am,” he replied, and, denying
the smile, his voice sounded dry. “She is
my cousin.”
• “Oh!” June’s voice was pure exaltation.
“How wonderful! Don’t you think she’s
marvellous? I think she is the loveliest
thing I’ve ever seen—you know, I saw
her on the pictures just before we came
away. They got her to act as Helen of
Troy.”
“I read something about that, little flutter.
I’m not surprised; she always did like
the limelight. But can you guess what I
thought the moment I saw you? How alike
you are! Surely someone must have men-
tioned it before?”
Ready blood flooded young cheeks. “Oh
no!” stammered June, wishing she knew
how to parry lightly such a public com-
pliment, until she remembered wistfully
that Mr. Kent was a cousin of the beautiful
Lady Lettice, and probably only thought
of her looks in the hnappreciative manner
common to male relations, if indeed he
thought at all.
Her father had seized Kent’s attention
again; June went on spreading marmalade
on her toast, never dreaming that Chris,
apparently listening to the Captain, longed
to rise and plant a well-aimed fist in the
swarthy face of the Armenian pearl-buyer
so unpleasantly feasting a lascivious eye
on the remarkable phenomenon of blushing
innocence within the precincts of the'Buc-
caneer Arms.
Captain Goer ate a large meal; the room
had emptied before he sat back, but a
man left the last group at the door and
walked across to his table. He produced
a neatly-folded packet of tough brown
paper from his pocket, and sat down so
soon as introductions were completed. Chris
rose, but the newcomer declared that he had
something to show the Captain, and he
didn’t mind Chris having a look, too; he
could be trusted to hold his tongue—unlike
a few they knew. And he ventured to
think that what he had might interest the
young lady. He supposed the Captain had
already heard about it down the coast?
Goer had. Eighty grains, eh? Perfect?
June’s cup of excitement overflowed when,
reverently, from a nest of cotton-wool
inside blue paper folded within the brown,
the pearler lifted a gem, the sort one sees
in the crowns of kings, and rolled it on
to the tablecloth. It lay there on the coarse
cotton damask, gleaming like a miniature
moon.
Chris remarked that was something like
—the best he’d seen in the place. The
owner said he should hope it was, con-
sidering it happened to be the best fished
in the last ten years! Goer agreed with
him; there followed such discussion of
gems and lustres and skins and textures
that June ceased trying to understand and
lost herself in the glamor of the pearl.
She was holding it when suddenly a lean
brown hand shut over her own, closing
her fingers; and, looking up in surprise,
she noticed a figure come in at the door.
The Armenian. He looked around and
went out again, not finding whom he
sought. June’s hand was released, the pearl
returned to its nest with a remark that
one had to be careful—this really wasn’t
the wisest place in the world for display-
ing gems, but if Miss Goer would care to
see some small stuff?
From another packet a shower of little
pearls, a dozen shapes and sizes, rained
across the table. June left the hotel won-
dering if such exhibitions were the common
accompaniment of meals at the pub; but
her father soon let her know she had. been
honored, and warned her to remember that
if ever a man showed her any stuff in
Broome, she had to keep quiet about it. A
pearl-buyer never forgot a gem once he’d
seen it, and, what’s more, he would be able
to recognise one from a clever description.
Too much publicity wasn’t good for a pearl
until it was sold. So it behoved pearlers
to be careful. He, himself, never showed
his own stuff to anybody; that was the
reason she had not seen a parcel long
ago. On the other hand, that fellow who
had been with them, always skited about
everything, and would probably end up
broke.
“Why wouldn’t you kiss Monty?” Goer
demanded of her as he rushed the car along
in a cloud of dust, making for the bungalow.
“Oh, I don’t know. He seems like a
stranger. I don’t think I like him,” mur-
mured June. “He’s so—so —oh, I can’t
explain. He drinks, doesn’t he?”
“Used to—like a fish. Great tales of
Monty. But he’s apparently chucked it
now. Quite a wowser, in fact. Fine feller,
Monty. And I can’t have my daughter
minding a spot or two; I can see it’s high
time I got you away from Auntie Miriam.”
They walked up the short white shingle
path which led, beneath spreading branches
of poinciana-trees and the rattling fronds
of a solitary cocoanut palm, to wide veran-
dahs, where June was to spend many hours.
The shutters stood wide, leaning on their
props, and a tiny breeze swung hanging
baskets of foliage and brought to listening
ears the chatter of natives somewhere in
the background. The boy watering the
garden looked up with a grin of welcome,
and June felt again a thrill of delight at
the strangeness of her home. Goer’s bun-
galow was slightly larger than the majority
—it boasted three rooms instead of two; a
green, bedroom for June, a green sitting-
room where no one ever sat, a green bed-
room for the Captain, all surrounded by
generous verandahs, which were widened
at one end to form a sleep-out, netted in
by mosquito gauze, and at the other to
make a comfortable lounge where stood
gramophone and wireless; widened too, at
the back, leaving a cool, draughty space
between the rooms and a kitchen and bath-
room built behind.
The Captain paused for an instant to
fling an arm about June’s waist with rough
affection. “Hope you’ll like Broome, girlie,”
he said. “I want you to be happy, y’know.
Just ask for what you want—we’ll fix the
bungalow anyhow you like, and I always
have kept open house. Not many girls in
Broome for you to be friends with—lots
of youngish married women—and crowds
of men. Give June the boys, eh?” He
winked.
June felt again that sinking sensation of
disloyalty—if only she could ask Daddy
to be more like the Daddy he had always
appeared to be in Melbourne! Was he
really different, or was she different? For
one second a cloud obscured the bright
day of her youth: were people different
when you grew up?
The problem of girl friends for her seemed
to be a worry. Her father was still won-
dering which of the three or four he knew
would be most likely to appefal to his June.
But for June, running up the steps, sur-
veying the cheerful verandah, gay with
cane chairs and chintz cushions, with book-
cases and magazines, the sun shone again
from a clear sky. How silly of her to
worry about an old man like Mr. Mont-
gomery, or over an‘imagined difference in
Daddy! “I’ll like them all,” she laughed
up at her father, eager eyes dancing. “And
you’re a darling!”
Thus easily did June dismiss Mr. Mont-
gomery from her mind; but not so readily
did Monty dismiss June. All morning she
scintillated through the pattern of his
thoughts like a golden thread. For the first
time in his sixty-odd years Monty wished
for children. Not that he felt at all paternal
towards June —Lord knew what he felt
towards her, a queer mixture of all manner
of feelings! Rather he experienced a spasm
of envy that Goer should be free to bask in
the glow of her youth, a warmth she evi-
dently meant to screen from him. And he
felt sorry, too. So soon life rubbed the
bloom off, shattered illusions: in Broome
the process seemed to be a hundred per
cent, quicker than anywhere else. And June
was the sort of girl a man wanted to
wall away in a garden, just to keep the
freshness of her.
Monty sighed. He hoped her awakening
wouldn’t be too rude. If only she would
like him a little he could teach her to
laugh. Fine stuff went under in Broome
when it wasn’t sustained by a sense of
humor. That chap Kent, now. A good
fellow, one of the best, but took things
too seriously. It didn’t do.
(To he continued next week.)
Inarticulate.
I cannot find me dove-grey words
To smooth my sorrow into peace,
To dwindle it to twilight threads
Fading to quiet, that it may cease.
I cannot take it in keen hands
And give it beauty—no, not I!
With hot, bright words that crystallise
To loveliness, that petrify
As lyric as a sweeping wing.
Nor know I how to polish it
Into a stern, proud majesty.
Darkly impregnable as granite.
For subtle and thin my sorrow is
As wayward water’s fluent fall;
I cannot find me words for it,
1 cannot find me words at all.
N.S.W.
MICHAEL JORDAN .


NESTLES
MALTED MILK
Build New Energy for Business
Nerve strain and bad digestion—the penalty of overwork
and worry —can be soothed and overcome by Nestle’s
Malted Milk. Taken during the day or at bedtime it
builds up the system and ensures sound sleep.
He
T
"tIT
WllOHt
ê
ë
Australian
made
Super
Quality
ft
/2°£r
48 leaves
Easy rolled—
no better sold
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
William Kelso is always a good buyer at
the yearling sales, but it is seldom that a
Statesman falls to his bid. He seems to
have got hold of a worthy successor to the
1928 Melbourne Cup winner in Buonarroti
(High Art —Aulone), though Buonarroti
may be more of a sprinter than a stayer.
The high opinion formed of Leila Vale
caused Booth’s filly to go out at evens for
the Nursery Handicap at Rosehill, after a
shade of odds had been asked. Buonarroti
was at 5 to 2; nothing else was inquired
for to any extent, in spite of there being
17 runners. Buonarroti made the race a
procession, but Leila Vale never showed out.
Kelso’s colt seemed to be loafing at thd dis-
tance, and Coutts gave him a reminder; after
that Byramjee (10 to 1), the second horse,
could not gain any ground. Rosehill (20 to
1) was third, the time for 44 furlongs being
sS4scc.
Twelve horses and four or five horsemen
made the Corinthian Cup interesting in more
ways than one. The White Horse whisky
people have given the very handsome trophy;
it has to be won twice by the same owner,
a feat not yet accomplished. Owner (Miss
Clark) and rider (L. Quinlan) of Saturday’s
winner get cups in miniature, presented by
the club. Their horse is Sabbath Slioon, a
big Queensland-bred chestnut (he is by Tab-
ragalba—Weiba) in Pat Nailon’s stable. A
brisk commission brought him to fives, and it
was landed after Potent (8 to 1) had died
on his run; A’Ravir (4 to 1) might have
beaten the pair if his rider had got him out
a bit earlier.
It is unusual for an aged horse to improve
greatly, but that is what Magnetic (Rossen-
dale —Cragrose) has done. Magnetic was a
fair two-year-old, but in four subsequent
years he did nothing out of the ordinary.
Qert '."Enjoying* Vour holidays,
Bert ? "
Bert I Vfes, its nice just to forget
everything' 1 '
Gert; "\ wonder the time is V
Bert; "Oh, \t yiust BE. os
POg 1953"
At seven years he has shown such striking
form that he must now be classed as one
of the fastest horses about Sydney up to a
mile. First in each of his last three starts,
he scored his easiest win in a division of
the Dundas Handicap, streaking away from
a field which included Sir Duninald, Sir
Chrystopher, Holdfast, Golden Gate, Gold
Digger and Tingalba; and the judge placed
him three lengths ahead of Lucre (10 to 1),
who was another two lengths in advance of
Golden Gate. He could have increased the
margin and cut down the (ime, which was
nevertheless excellent —Imin. 25|sec % Gold
Digger, Magnetic, Golden Gate and Tingalba
were the only horses quoted under tens;
Magnetic ended up at threes.
In winning the second division' of the
Dundas Handicap, Kichaka (7 to 1) occu-
pied half a second longer than Magnetic,
and Britt had to ride him desperately, so
strongly did old Pavilion (7 to 4) challenge.
The much-talked-of Polly Speck,_ from
Queensland, made his appearance in this
race (Polly is no lady), and was momen-
tarily favorite, but the price went to 6 to 1.
He was a fast-finishing third. High Dis-
dain also came home well; but Pentheus, for
whom there was a bit of money, lost his
chance at the start. Booth started two —
Tom Pinch and Sweet Maggie. Neither gave
any trouble.
Warwick Farm form proved trustworthy
in the case of Stonebrook. It was only a
Novice Handicap that Stonebrook won at
the Farm, but he did his job so well that
punters decided he was racing out of his
class. From fives he came to .5 to 2 for
the December Handicap at Rosehill, and he
cut down Cherbourg, an outsider, nicely
when O’Sullivan applied pressure. His
advantage was three-quarters of a length,
and he was going away at the finish; Phlare
(10 to 1) was two lengths behind Cher-
bourg, the time being 2min. 6Jsec. Roley
and Rogerson were disappointments, but
Mountain View showed up for a time.
Stonebrook is now favorite for the Summer
Cup.
Merryland (14 to 1) brought home the
bacon for W. A. Ross, one of the Rosehill
trainers, in the Carlingford Mile. A plain
old bay mare by Claro —Eudid, she knows
every inch of the course, and is shrewdly
placed by Ross. Racing towards the home
turn, Montgomery, the stable jockey, stole
a lead on her which proved decisive. Topi-
cal (4 to 1) made a dash at her in the
straight, and looked like catching her, but
stumbled. Even then he failed by. a
mere half-length. There was a commission
for Lorason, but Hunter White’s gelding
was not equal to getting a place—Sunder
Lee (20 to 1) was third. Second in the
Rosehill Guineas to Phar Lap, Lorason is
a long time returning to that form.
* * * , ' *
For Randwick on Saturday and Monday:
Villiers Stakes : Trevallion, 1; Magnetic,
2; Alienor, 3.
Holiday Handicap: Stonebrook; next,
Phlare.
Highweight Handicap: Tilt; next, Tan-
trum.
Summer Cup : Stonebrook, 1; Speldon, 2;
Balgay, 3.
December Stakes: Ruonarroti; next, Leila
Vale.
For Warwick Farm on Tuesday: Rodondo
(Camden Handicap) may be worth a ticket.
* * * *
Ascot, where now the Vic. Trotting and
Racing Association lives and moves and
has its being—other Melbourne “pony”
courses have been closed by Act of Parlia-
ment-staged a programme of 11 events last
Saturday under the jurisdiction of V.R.C.
stipendiary stewards. The latest Julius
tote, with its highly popular odds barometer,
is installed there. G. J. C. Dyett, Federal
president of the Returned Soldiers’ Associa-
tion, is secretary of the V. T. and R. A.,
and for some months past has acted as
starter as well, Peter Kierce being incapa-
citated by serious illness. There were several
straggling starts on Saturday.
Had he got away with the njain bunch in
the Ascot Five Hundred, the heavily-backed
Harry Gavin could not have lost. This son
of Eurythmic has returned to the form which
enabled him to win the Quality Handicap
at Moonee Valley in the autumn of 1930.
Fred Hoysted, his owner-trainer, gave Harry
Gavin a gallop at Ascot last week, and the
neat little bay adapted himself admirably
to sprinting downhill and coming home on
the up-grade. Hoysted felt supremely con-
fident as to the result of the Five Hundred,
despite Kaoota being such a warm favorite.
He did not bargain on Harry Gavin missing
the jump-out. Though he had to give the
leaders many lengths’ start, Hoystead’s nag
ran Green Moth to half a length. Grena-
dier, half-brother to the Westralian Derby
favorite, Olympian, was only a neck farther
off.
Green Moth was lucky to win, but cannot
be denied credit, as she was conceding Harry
Gavin 81b. This mare is by Greenstead from
Airwoman, by Bright Steel, and is bred for
speed. Not only was her sire a wonderful
miler, but Bright Steel, an imported son
of St. Simon, captured the Oakleigh Plate
when trained by the late Jack Fielder. An-
other meeting between Green Moth and
Harry Gavin may take place in the Christ-
mas Handicap at Caulfield on Boxing Day.
It can safely be predicted that Hoystead’s
prad will turn the tables on the mare. How-
ever, the field is likely to be more classy
than it was at Ascot, for the horses entered
include Greenline, Parkwood, Waterline and
Jack Holt’s trio —Umbertana, St. Ardent
and Casque d’Or. In the Hopetoun Handi-
cap on the same afternoon Lou Robertson
has First Arrow (imp.) and the M.L.-bred
King Colossus to represent him. One of these
may win—King Colossus for preference.
The second division of the Trial Handi-
cap at Ascot was captured by Dame Isa,
a filly by Cyklon (sire of Trivalve) from
Isa. She is a mere pony, but disposed of
a Woorak colt, Yanac, in very game fashion.
Short odds were accepted about Yanac; yet
bookmakers declined to lay better than 5
to 2 against Dame Isa. In the same race
James Scobie saddled up Tintin, a half-
brother (by Cyklon) to Thrice (by The
Welkin), the dam being imported Teppo, by
Ladas from Dum Dum, by Carbine. Having
been reared on the bottle, Tintin was not
taken in hand until four years old; he may
be heard of later on. Claude Goodfellow,
trainer of Yanac, pulled off a betting coup
when Earl Leicester annexed the first divi-
sion of the Welter Handicap. He backed
the Crowdennis gelding from 8 to 1_ down
to 3 to 1. Punters stood off Earl Leicester
at the outset, believing that apprentice-
jockey McNeil was an utter novice. It
leaked out that McNeil had won a number
of races in South Aus.
Nine of the winners at Ascot were either
first favorites or near-favorites. The only
turn-up for bookmakers was when Excelic
led home the Juvenile Handicap field. He
is by Heroic and cost Cecil Godby 260gns.
at the Randwick yearling sales. Godby
could not have fancied him on Saturday or
the gelding would not have gone but at 12
to 1 and paid more than 20 to 1 on the tote.
Excelic has been nominated for the juvenile
races at the holiday meetings in Melbourne,
and must be seriously reckoned with. Tin-
dall started Snowacre on Saturday, but the
Snowfire colt is still green, and failed to
show up. Tindall holds this fellow on lease
from D. U. Seaton, of Sydney. There is
not a better-looking youngster to be found
in Melbourne.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The Como-Edwards scrap at Leichhardt
was about the cleverest of the season. With
snappy lefts, crosses and uppercuts Como
won the first four rounds. Edwards was the
faster in the fifth and sixth, but a right cross
bowled him over as the seventh ended; he
calmly tui’ned a somersault and walked grin-
ning to his corner. Como also captured the
eighth, but Edwards was on top in the ninth
and tenth and in the last four rounds, though
Como landed three rights to the temple in
the eleventh. The decision in Edwards’s
favor was correct, but the American is a
skilful boxer, and game.
* * * *
... ,
In New York last week Kid ’ Ghoco-
late retained his featherweight title by a
narrow margin m a 15-round battle with
Fidel la Barba, the Californian, whom many
Australians will recall as showing well m
this country some years ago. The referee
gave the fight a draw, but the two judges
overruled him and awarded the fight to
Chocolate. La Barba’s offensive and defen-
sive work was splendid, but his opponent
staged his usual whirlwind tactics, attack-
ing all the time, and this evidently influenced
the judges.
* * *
The battle between “Young” Stribling and
the South African McCorkindale in Jo’burg
ended in a win on points for the American,
The cable states that the Afrikander bled
his man early, but was badly thwarted by
“the holding and mauling tactics of Strib-
ling, who was often warned.” Those who
saw the Yank in action here will not be
surprised to hear that. Nevertheless, it is
added, the verdict was correct.
* * * *
Bonny Muir, the college boy from Mel-
bourne, made his second match with Lurich
at Leichhardt as spectacular as any yet
seen there. A body-scissors gained the Rus-
sian a fall in the second round. Several
times in subsequent rounds Muir seemed on
the point of pinning his opponent for the
required three seconds, but the equalising
fall did not arrive till the sixth. This ended
the scheduled number of rounds. An extra
10-minute term was ordered. Still unable
to tell who’d won, the referee hoisted both
grapplers’ hands in the air.
] ns and Outs
R . t hrpp States
BassXaßthe
Englisbmen tackled Tassie at Launceston,
* amassed 502 . Sutcliffe (101), Pataudi
(1O0) Ames (107) and Paynt er (102). The
f ittle Lancashire lefthander showed excellent
f in hig first three-figure innings of the
t Of the home bowlers, James came out
we n with 6 for 96, Putnam getting 4 for 156.
Badcock (67) and Burrows (41) gave Tas-
mania a fine ; st art, and Putnam (56 n. 0.)
carried on the good work, but.the rest did
little the innings closing for 229. Slow-
bowl’r Mitchell took 6 for 70. -He has
well when he has been given the
opportunity and may see a Test yet if he is
not care f u i. Larwood did not bowl,
* * * *
j n Adelaide N.S.W. and South Australia
met j n their first Sheffield Shield engagement,
South Australia did no better than 213 in
R s fj rs t shot. Vic. Richardson batted
brightly for 2S, but O’Reilly (4-47) and
Howell (3-61) started an ugly rout, until
H, S. Whitington newomer to Sheffield
cricket was partnered by Grimmett. Ihe
youngster scored freely until tast-bowlei
& WKSt S
o>Reillv and then the shutters went up
Singleton (68) and Brown (40) hoisted 102
\ B th first N.S.W. wicket, but Kippax
for 9 . McCabe batted brightly for 67.
(39) and Oldfield (40) did useful work,
but . t £ e ' of tbe innings was Cummins’s
78 . wl flch he belted the bowling to blazes,
sl^win spec ial affe ction for Wall’s fast stuff,
Cumm f ns had an average of lin Sheffield
cric k e t last season. If he doesn’t watch him-
sclf he>u find himself, in a Test this time,
N . S . W . finished with 379. Lee got three
tail _ end wickets for 48, but Grimmett, in
something like his best form, took 4 for 138,
bowling 39 overs. At lunch on Monday
South * AuS ‘ had f down f % 159 ' *
Queensland, which this year has a side
that would find it hard to win a vacant
allotment competition, if one excepts the
ancient Oxenhain, made a poor showing
against Victoria in Melbourne, being all out
for 126, of which Cook made 33. As in
Brisbane, Fleetwood Smith was the destroyer,
taking 6 for 59. The Victorians had hoisted
59 for the loss of Ponsford on Saturday
night—it should, be said that rain prevented
any play on Friday. Ponsford went for 24
and will have to buck up. On Monday it was
3 for 162 (Woodfull 38).
* * * *
“Fitzcray” : A Oollingwood (Vic.) muni-
cipal councillor referred to women cricketers
as merely looking for a chance to show their
legs. When the shouting and the tumult
died a bit, the cricketinas of the locality
issued a challenge to the council to meet
them in a match, the gate going to the
mayor’s fund. In very shame the council
had to accept the defi, and date and con-
vincing ground are now being fixed up.
* ■ * $ *
“Inside”: Touching that fast scoring by
a Nowra (N.S.W.) batsman (B. 14/12/’32),
what about this one? Batting for Lake
Cargellico (N.S.W.) against Euabalong, J.
B. Reid, junior, made 209 n.o. in 160 min-
utes out of 310 for five wickets. He hit
14 sixes and 22 fours. It would be almost
worth while sending some of the English
and Australian Test batsmen round these
country matches to learn what really can be
done with a bat. Few of the poor dears
seem to have any idea of it nowadays.
(Continued on next page.)
The 20th contest for the Dunn Shield,
which carries with it the club championship
of the State, was concluded at Sydney Uni-
versity Oval on Saturday, ’Varsity appro-
priately winning with 111 points. Western
Suburbs was second with and Randwick-
Kensington third with 76. Hampson, of
Western Suburbs, easily won the 220 in
22 2-5s§c., while the Olympian, G. A. Gold-
ing, got away with the 440 3ft. hurdles in
53 3-5sec. M. L. Wade took the 120 hurdles
for Uni. in 16sec. dead, and J. P. Metcalfe
and M. Rosenblum won the hop, step and
jump and the 161b. hammer throw with
48ft. 2in. and 123ft. 31 in. respectively.


Wanting a handy typewriter?
then you can’t do better
than buy a British
Imperial “Good Com-
panion” Portable . . .
e
£l9/19/-
The British Imperial
Portable is light and
compact. It is easy to
use and types any-
thing ....quickly,
neatly and legibly.
Terms available. Write for full particulars from the nearest agent.
L. DOBELL & CO., LTD., IMPERIAL TYPEWRITER SALES CO., GEO. RAITT & CO. PTY., LTD.,
43 Creek Street, Brisbane. 22 Martin Place, Sydney. 40 Queen Street, Melbourne.
OFFICE EQUIPPERS, LTD., JOHNSON & HEY, OFFICE SUPPLIES CO.,
Gawler Place, Adelaide. Hunter Street, Newcastle. 105 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
BURRIDGE & WARREN, LTD., 69 King Street, Perth.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
BRITAIN —MaKe Your Totir Complete
Tha highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
* the “Flying Scotsman” —71 hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDMBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LOR DON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
T^et&Jeatfcuu/
the SCENIC
PLAYGROUND
of the PACIFIC
Here—in this fascinating land—lie deep-sea fishing
grounds, lakes and rivers teeming with trout, thermal valleys
with their spouting geysers and boiling pools, Maori "pahs,"
mountain chateaux, beautiful sounds, fiords, glaciers and
mountain peaks—all within a few days' travel of each other.
Write for complete information, suggested
tours, fares, etc.
LETTER OF CREDIT TOURS.
Genuine tourist visitors can obtain
travel tickets, accommodation, etc., at
will in New Zealand, AND SAVE
EXCHANGE by booking with any N.Z.
Govt. Tourist Bureau in Australia.
i .V
N.Z. Government Tourist Bureau,
Box 365 F, Martin Place, Sydney,
and at 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Please send me illustrated leaflet*
and lull details of a holiday in New
Zealand.
NAME ;
ADDRESS ...:
Ins and Outs
The Englishmen at Wagga drew the match
with the locals, making 313 in their reply
to the Wagga first innings of 226. Ames
(91), Brown (51), Tate (53 n. 0.) and
L’aynter (45) got the runs. Rumble, a
heady slow bowler, did good work, getting
sof the visitors for 73. In their second
try Southern Districts lost 7 for 68, slow
bowler Mitchell taking 5 for 26 —12 for 103
in the match.
“Jolimount” : The Bradman-Board wrangle
is being roused from its slumber. Four
members of the Board of Control have signed
a requisition for a special meeting to be held
after the ordinary meeting of the board in
Melbourne on December 28. At the special
meeting an attempt will be made to have the
player-writer rule rescinded or at least modi-
fied. It is unlikely to succeed. Queensland,
South Australia and a majority in N.S.W.
and Victoria will certainly uphold the ori-
ginal rule.
*!• ifi
“Waclit cin Bitje”: The trustees of Syd-
ney Cricket Ground have announced that
some time or other—in the Greek Kalends
maybe—they are going to extend the area to
accommodate 105,000 people. They might well
have cut out the odd 5000, but there is
nothing like being accurate. Brass is the
trouble. The Trust holds about £50,000, but
the estimated cost of the reconstruction —for
that is what it will amount to —is expected to
reach £250,000. An attempt is to be made
to bite the Government’s lug for the money.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: While Sydney Cricket
Ground is talking of having extra accommo-
dation available by the time the next Eng-
lish team comes out, its Melbourne cobber
has hopped in and provided 800 new seats
instead of flower-beds on the north side of
the ground. Much of the S.C.G. space in front
of most of the stands consists of so-called
lawns which, when packed with people stand-
ing, are useless as viewpoints. A few thou-
sand superficial feet of timber would cover
these with terraced seats, enabling everyone
who has paid his money to see the cricket,
a thing thousands cannot do now. The
open space in front of the dressing pavilion is
another example. There is no necessity for
it, since side doors could be cut to admit
members in addition to those already provided
at the back of the stand. In most of the
big English grounds the seats come right
down to the rails in all the stands, members’
and otherwise.
* $ * *
“Gate Crasher”': Many members of Syd-
ney Cricket Ground have wonderingly com-
plained of the immense hordes of unknowns
who have jammed the smokers’ stand reserved
for members only. Yet the system is
familiar to many. A member takes two or
three non-member pals with him and leaves
them outside. He goes in and borrows two
or three tickets from his friends “for a
couple of minutes,” goes out, hands them to
the waiting parties, and all sail triumphantly
in. Then he collects the tickets and returns
them to the proper owners. The Q.T.C. after
years of cogitation successfully squelched
this old, familiar ramp. Attached to members’
tickets now is a strong tag bearing the dates
of all Q.T.C. meetings. When a holder goes
in the. date is punched by an official at the
turnstile and the ticket can be used no more
that day. Any member desiring to go out
temporarily gets a pass, but has to back it
with the punched badge on his or her return.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin’’; The only American victory
in the Victorian tennis championships was
in the doubles, in which Vines and Gledhill
beat, their countrymen Allison and Van
Eyn. > In addition to Crawford, who van-
quished Vines in the singles, Joan Hartigan,
of N.S.W.,.had a good meeting, winning the
women’s singles and the singles for girls
under 21. And, with Dunlop, she was
adjudged winner by default in the mixed
doubles. Vivian McGrath scored in the
under-21 singles, downing Adrian Quist, in
two straight sets.
“Rev. K.”: Allison and Mrs. Van Ryn
were to have figured in the Vic. mixed
doubles final, but Allison objected to
playing on the ground that he had
t a k en p a rt in two other events that day.
As they did not appear, the referee awarded
t | l( , championship to Joan Hartigan and Ray
i) nll i o p. Allison complained that overseas no
one WO uld think of playing three matches in
olle day, but since our players in England
an d America are content to obey local rules
it jg U p to our visitors to follow suit.
Though far harder worked than the Ameri-
cans, the Japanese team never objected
There seems to be something m the cult ot
I’nsliido.
, " . * , r
. Kooyong : Ihe selectors dropped Moon
I ™ Uie team tor the second Test, which
begins in Melbourne on December 24, and
substituted Crawford, wfio could not go to
Brisbane for the first The others are Hop-
iaan - Sproule and McGrath. The choice is
about as good as can be made. Sproule s
Davis Cup tour has improved him immensely
and Hopman earned his place. The inclu-
sion of Quist lias pleased everyone. He
showed fine form in Melbourne and with
McGrath suggests a promising nucleus for
our future Davis Cup teams.
yL. f-frki#.
* * le iN O nel:een m Hole
“The McHaggis”: What is claimed to be
a world’s record in golf was put up at Manly
(N.S.W.) by one W. S. ;Cohen the other
day. He was playing an approach to the
16th when a ball pulled from the 12th tee
’OWZAT?
BATSMAN : “’Ere, Larwood, any more of yer leg theory and I’ll give yer some of
mine. An’ it won’t he with the bloomin’ ball.”
landed beside his own as he completed his
swing. Both balls were struck at the same
moment, but whereas Cohen’s shot was fairly
successful, the strange ball only went a few
yards, its owner playing on from there, as
j ie was entitled to do. There are several
British instances where a player has hit
two balls at once, but both have always
t> een stationary. L. Donaldson, of Pit-
lochry, in Scotland, played his ball from
a muddy lie, and shifted with it another
that had been buried out of sight in the
mud under it. P. Garner, playing his ball
from a Lancashire sand hunker, disturbed
another which had been hidden in the sand,
The best to date until the Manly episode
was the feat of J. E. Mellof at Sunning-
dale. His opponent had lodged his ball in
a bunker guarding the green. Mellor also
got the bunker, but his ball bounced off his
opponent’s on to the green and found the
hole.
* * * *
“Handicap”: Though D. G. Soutar voiced
a heresy which in earlier days would have
caused him to be burned alive in Edinburgh
Grassmarket when he advocated the enlarge-
ment of the hole on the golfing green and
disparaged the art of putting (B.
14/12/’32), he was right in condemning the
par .system of handicapping. This was
adopted during the craze for American
methods which prevailed some years ago.
If a vote on the subject were taken now
that* 1 a "return
scratch system placing the couraes on nla!’
ease wirn rue present metnotl.
. tr , ’ ’ ‘
Carnoustie : Take those remarks of
►Soutar with a pound of salt. Like most of liis
countrymen he is an accomplished legpuller.
Soutar is himself by no means a mug on the
greens, and lie probably finds the tin quite
large enough as it is at present. At any
rate, the Americans, who have improved on
the golf they were taught by their British
distant relations, have proved that the pro-
sent hole is not too small for deadly and
accurate putting from any distance and angle:,
* * .;. *
,
Sandringham : The annual tussle for
the Albert Findlay Cup for professional
golfers came off on the Victoria club’s links
last week, most of the leading Victorian
players taking a hand. Ihe contest is 36
holes stroke, and at the end of the two
rounds C. Connors and E. Naismith, the
iatter winner of the cup last year, had tied
with 10-j each. G. Naismith, the Victorian
professional champion, was back in ninth
place. Connors and E. Naismith were
ordered out to play another 9 holes of stroke.
Driving, approaching and putting fault-
lessly, O’Connor returned a card of 33 for
the 9 holes, winning by 4 strokes.
Car and Cycle
“Flinders”: Kerosene as a fuel for inter-
nal-combustion engines is no new thing, but
one F. W. Bode, of Winton (Q.), is utilising
it in an unusual fashion. A special vaporiser
is fitted and the car is started on petrol, a
red light on the dash showing this is being
used. When a certain temperature is reached
the fuel is automatically changed by rheostat
from petrol to kerosene, the i’cd light switch-
ing off as soon as the kerosene enters the
combustion chambers. The inventor claims
that his device eliminates crank-ease dilution.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Though this is supposed to be /
the off season, several new motor records
have been hoisted in Europe lately. Perhaps
the most important was the establishment
of new speed figures for baby cars. Driving
one on the Montlhery track, George Eyston
cut out 120 m.p.h., beating his own previous
record of 1171 m.p.h. on the Pendine Sands
in Wales in February. In this last race
Eyston occupied a special enclosed cockpit,
and wore an asbestos suit.
“Roller”: In the motor-cycle racing in
which the international team of star riders
now touring Australia will figure, instead of
each man having his own machine the pro-
moter will provide the lot. They will be
tuned as nearly as possible to each othex-,
and the riders draw lots for the one they
will use. This obviates the possibility of
the rider with a super-speedy machine mak-
ing a clean sweep of the events, and puts
a premium on riding ability as well as mak-
ing for more interesting finishes.
* $ * *
“Wooden Rim” : A carpenter could put in
a good day’s work at Sydney Velodrome.
There are a number of loose boai-ds in the
track, particularly just in front of the finish-
ing line. A hammer and nails would pro-
vide an inexpensive but much-needed remedy.
Miscellaneous
“Wood”: Joseph Carruthers was one of
Sydney’s keenest bowlers. He was full of
reminiscences of the early days of the game
and was fond of pointing out a city site now
covered with flats where E. W. Fosbery,
Inspectoi’-General of Police, maintained his
own private green. Carruthers followed
the example and laid down a fine green at
his residence at Sans Souci. This he allowed
to be used by the Ellesmere club; both club
and green have long ceased to exist. He
was one of the founders of the now-flourish-
ing St. George club and its first patron.
*** * y
“Hamilton”: Queensland is sending out a
regular armada to defend its titles in the open
boat championships at the end of the year.
That for 12-footers will commence with the
first heat in Sydney on December 2S, the
best of three deciding the tussle. Dove and
Dioue will be the two Bananaland reps, and
they were out by themselves in the trials at
Brisbane. One solitary craft, Victor 111.,
will go all the way to Perth for the ltj-
t'ooters’ event. In the 18’s championship,
which will be sailed in Sydney, there will be
two boats, Aberdare, said to be the fastest
boat of her class that ever came out of the
north, being first pick. Sydney interests
challenged her on the ground that her beam
was short of the prescribed 7ft. Official
measurement showed that she bettered this
by nine-sixteenths of an inch.
! J* * ❖ ❖
“Parehesi”: Cliess players all over Aus-
tralia are getting into condition for the
Australian championship, while a contin-
gent of Maorilanders is also expected. The
kick-off is timed for 1 p.m. at Anthony
Horderns’ Fine Art Gallery on December 2d;
the matches will continue day and evening
until January 9. The Australian Chess
Federation will ride on the whirlwind and
direct the storm.
* t- * *
“Maristonian”: The Corbould Shield for
the premier Sydney sporting school goes
to St. Joseph’s College for a fine record of
successes. The Cerise and Blues began the
year by being undefeated' at the end of the
first round of the cricket competition. On
the water they took the junior eights and
maiden fours (from clubmen) at the Sydney
Uni. regatta and then beat Shore for the
Head of the River title, in addition to cap-
turing the Yaralla Cup. In football, the
school again won the G.P.S. premiership,
being thus undefeated for three successive
years. The seconds haven’t held the losers'
end since 1928.
* * *
“Long Rest”: Although' he lost the Aus-
tralian amateur billiards championship last
season, Leslie Hayes, of N.S.W., has been
selected to challenge the holder of the Empire
title in England early next year. Sakzew-
ski, of Queensland, can’t go. Hayes has been
undergoing intensive coaching by Horace
Lindrum and is said to have improved his
game out of sight.


Will. Fowles, of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only Victoria’s greatest refined hotel values
thus: Single Rooms
from 4/6 day; Double
from 7/6; and meals
optional (also at re-
duced rates in Tea-
rooms or Cafe), and
Room with Breakfast
from 6/6 Single or
11/6 Double—all less
10 p.c. if staying one
week or more; and
complete Board from
10/6 day or 65/- week
(both net) ; but, in
addition, if you
motor, Win. Fowles
e
garages your car free of charge in the hotel
garage, next door, during your entire stay.
Such value service and convenience is not
obtainable at any other hotel in Mel-
bourne city. Please write for tariff card,
which gives all information, or state your
requirements and we will gladly quote.
Special rates for clubs, conferences, families,
etc. The Manager, Oarlyon’s Hotel, Mel-
bourne, is sufficient address for your letter.
Public Notice.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
\7ALUATIONS made, sales and leases
v arranged, taxation and rating appeals,
and all estate work undertaken anywhere
in the State for absentee owners, at Chamber
of Commerce rates. Skilled advice may save
you pounds.
Write at once.
G. CANNING JACKSON,
Land and Estate Agent. Sworn Valuator and
Commissioner for Declarations,
Witlinell Chambers. 12 Howard Street, Perth.
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
WALTZES FROM VIENNA.
KING’S THEATRE:
TREASURE ISLAND.
Educational.
Methodist Ladies’ College, Burwood.
Founded 1886.
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL,.
In addition to the classical classes, and included
in the ordinary curriculum, a new Secretarial and
Business Training Course will commence with the
next term, which begins on February 8.
Principal, REV. T. F. POTTS.
Head Mistress, Miss SUTTON, B.A.
New illustrated prospectus upon application to the
Principal.
“The Student Prince”
ran to big houses for four nights at
Broken Hill recently, and then
“A Night Out”
ran for the same number of nights. Both
were amateur companies and both entirely
different.
“THE BARRIER MINER”
keeps life in Famous Broken-Hill, and all
the Far West as well-. Doesn’t it?
JBi
Clw
*1
iRCUIAIWDWi
HAPPY AND
PROSPEROUS
NEW YEAR
If You Advertise in
THE PERTH
The Largest Newspaper in
Western Australia.
SURE RESULTS AT
MINIMUM COST
Guaranteed Circulation and State-
wide Coverage.
N.S.W. Office: Wingello House, Angel
Place, Sydney. 85690.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
Sydney was boxed right round the com-
pass last week by a storm which in seven
and a half minutes managed to unroof houses,
wreck shops, hurtle a fireball on the head
of Alfred-street in North Sydney, rend the
veil of Heaven with its lightning, which
flashed a mocking flame along the steelwork
of the bridge, and completely shroud the
harbor and Hyde Park in a pall of gigantic
rain pellets and wind-driven dust. It was a
breath-taking spectacle for those who viewed
it from behind closed windows, and a terri-
fying, in some cases serious, experience for
tnose caught by its swift violence. Tlien the
67-miles-an-hour gale dropped with the
suddenness of exhaustion, the curling whips
of rain ceased to flay its flanks, and though
a sullen drizzle persisted through the night,
and most of the following day, Nature .was
done with the spectacular.
Even at a guinea each the tickets for the
dance at Retford Hall, the home of the Tony
Horderns, were quite eagerly sought. Polo
players and barrackers were keen to help
the cause, which is to have the new Kyeemagli
polo ground at Mascot ready for play next
Easter. The gardens were bright with elec-
trics, and the garden ballroom was set about
with great bowls of hydrangea and tall
spears of gladioli. Gardenias decorated
almost every dancer, for Mrs. W. H. Mackay,
who sold them, let no man escape. Mrs.
Tony Hordern was unable to be present,
but Mrs. Colin Stephen and a long list of
frightfully well-dressed committee members
were there in the interests of the game.
Black lace was worn by Mrs. Stephen and
by Mrs. Gordon Brady, the latter’s frock
being of the draped variety which is only
for the slim. Ivory lace was worn by Mrs.
Jimmy Ashton, and Peggy Bullmore’s mist-
blue lace had the Empire waist outlined in
pink ribbon. Mrs. John Fairfax’s swelling
white organdie with its flower stencillings in
black was admired. Jean and Irene Ander-
son, Mary and Dinah Hordern, Audrey Hor-
dern and Mary Adams added diaphanous
young frocking in pinks and blues. There
were lots of eligible young men and codntrj
people in town for Christmas, and almost
everybody had come on from a friendlj
dinner party, so the affair, as well as beirn
fashionable, was matey.
Sydney is taking the wife of Admiral Dal
glish to its bosom. The ever-ready cocktai
shaker has been swung in her honor several
times. But perhaps the nicest party so far
was that on the Canberra. Captain Far-
quhar-Smith was the host, and he and Mrs.
Farquhar-Smith made the guests welcome
to the shining white area of deck. Her navy
blue frock was thickly spotted in yellow,
and her wide hat was swathed in navy. Mrs.
Dalglish looked handsome in a suit of rose-
pink flat crepe, touched with misty blue.
Her hat was big, black and flower-posied on
the brim. The Admiral was early on deck,
as was Captain Feakes, whose wife was
graceful in sapphire blue. Most of the Navy,
the Consuls and many of the Judges, in-
cluding Chief Justice Street, were among
those who paid their respects.
So many little sick ones are turning for
help to the Far West Children’s Health
Scheme that the depdt at Manly is no
longer adequate to meet the demands. Lady
Game has taken the scheme under her wing,
and last week at Government House she
launched an appeal for funds to build a
new depdt. Manly, where the kiddies from
the West have been so happy in past years,
is to be the site of the building, which will
accommodate 50 children. These are not the
yearly holiday-makers, but little ones who
have been hospital cases, and need after-care
treatment. Padre Stanley Drummond and
his wife, who started this method of bringing
the best medical attention and the children
of the Far West together, have seen their
effort grow till the organisation is now a
firmly established bit of the State’s social
welfare. The Far West scheme proudly
claims to have hatched the first travelling
baby clinic and the first “flying” nurse. No
regular money-raising campaign has yet been
started, but at the meeting the other morn-
ing a committee was elected; this has
Lady Game for president and Chief Justice
Street’s wife as chairwoman. Mrs. IT. Armi-
tage and Mr. G. R. Winn are the treasurers,
and Mrs. Farquharson is the secretary. Other
importants are Mrs. J. Lyons, Mrs. B. S. B.
Stevens, retiring Mayoress Walder and the
new civic hostess, Mrs. R. C. Hagon.
Molly Brown and Eva Kuraz, principal
girls in “Take Two from One,” the In-
dependents’ production at the Savoy, are
as great a contrast as could be found
in girlhood. Eva in make-up, expres-
sion and clothes is distinctly the clinging-
vino type; Molly in her sheath-like green
frock in the first act, and the almost primi-
tive attire in which she arrives from the
wilds of Africa, is clearly the dominant per-
sonality. Eva, as Marcela, changes her frock
as often as she changes her emotions. At
first she was reminiscent, somehow, of the
Blessed Damozel, in a rich cobalt blue frock
with lilac-pink triflings at neck and wrist;
then a pink organdie, much ruffled, clothed
her unquiet, and finally a smart cherry-red
and white silk frock was worn with a little
white muffin of a hat. Both Molly and Eva
are more than ordinarily good-looking, and
the Savoy stage is heaped with flowers each
night of the performance.
The Painter-Etchers, who are just finish-
ing up their show in the Macleod Gallery,
slipped a night of song and dance into the
proceedings. It was a very successful
affair and the gallery, which is as large as
a good-sized" ballroom, was crowded with the
exhibitors and their friends. Squire Morgan
and his pretty wife and Douglas Pratt did
the honors, and visitors included Mrs. W.
Macleod, after whose husband the gallery is
named. The acoustic properties of the big hall
delighted the musicians, and Ted Scorfield
and Frith put an extra curl into the night
with their lightning sketches.
When Brigadier-General I. G. (Iven)
Mackay goes to Cranbrook, it won’t be the
first time he has faced a company of school-
boys. Before the war he was a master at
“Shore.” After that he lectured in physics
at the Uni., where since the war he has been
on the administrative staff; from there he
retired with a heavy weight in silver ink-
stands and a ton Or so of good wishes the
other morning.
The. girl with the thoughtful expression
is Doris Hayball, who arrived in Sydney from
Melbourne with some arresting one-act plays
in her bag.
One of these,
“T he Gro-
tesque,” was
produced at
Pakie’s, that
little gather-
ing - place of
the arts in
Eliza beth-
street; an-
other, “Old
Mr. Winters-
apple,” was
well received
when t h e
Players’ Club
presented it
with Mont-
gomery Stuart
in the name-
part. Doris is
a member of
the Australian
Authors’ Club,
and is on the committee of the Australian
Literature Society, both important groups
in Melbourne’s world of letters. Europe,
the States and the Near East have (ill been
looked over by this lady, who says with
quite a sincere note in her voice that she
has found no place so charming as Sydney.
E. T. Crutchley, who represents the Brit-
ish Government in Australia, was the reason
for the speech-making at the Royal Empire
Society’s luncheon last week. And what,
we ask you, would a Royal Empirians’ func-
tion be without its speeches? As well talk
of lamb without mint sauce or boiled mutton
without the caper. Anyway, there was Mr.
Crutchley, up at the top table, eating his
cbld meats and salad, and near by were C.
M. C. Shannon, Hugh Denison’s lady (in the
smartness of navy and white) and tall W.
G. Layton, who really stage-manages these
affairs very well. Perhaps it was to. impress
upon Mr. Crutchley, and' through him the
British Government, that we are nobly tak-
ing up the white man’s burden of economy
that the lunch was so homely. Not that it
matters to most women these times ; they’d
rather willow than wallow, so to speak. The
Australian wines and the pink carnations
put a sparkle into the proceedings; and Mrs.
Shannon’s jocund yellow and brown frock-
ing (rather tiger-lilyish in coloring) was
admired. The Walders. made their farewell
Mayoral bow to the assemblage. Miss
Crowdy wore a frock patterned in brown
and green, and a brow patterned with calcu-
lation ; there were three prize-givings ahead
of her. Mrs. Roystone Davey, Dame Barlow,
the David Cohens and Kelso King were
other nice people noted.
Mr. Crutchley has a military bearing,
bound in a conservative appearance, and a
skin just tanned enough to look healthy. He
has a suave tongue, a whimsical eye and a
nice, sly English sense of humor that brings
home to you the fact that it never does to
judge a book by its jacket cover.
At four o’clock, the hour specified for the
opening, two important people were still
missing from B. E. Minns’s show. They
were Minister for Transport Bruxner and
the artist’s little wife. The Minister was
disporting himself at The King’s School prize-
giving, and Mrs. Minns was still on the
road from Springwood. So for a quarter of
an hour the windows of the Macquarie Gal-
leries held anxious watchers, as eagled-eyed
as sister Anne, of Bluebeard renown. How-
ever. in due time the car of each panted up
to the kerb, and the ceremony proceeded ; but
before that the company had been fascinated
by the limpid effects of seascape, the gay
beach scenes, the blue of sky and drifting
haze, the terribly solitary look of the abo-
rigines whom nobody else paints w’itli quite
such sympathy. B. E. Minns even makes some
tumble-down wattle and dab cottages look pic-
turesque. Mrs. Minns, who wore a trig turn-
out of jaearanda mauve, talked to Julian
Ashton, Will Ashton and Florence _ Blake,
whose portraits of women are getting the
spotlight of approval from brother artists.
President of the Society of Artists Syd
Smith and J. R. Watkins were others who
came to the show, and a striking looker was
Mrs. Sibley, whose new log cabin just above
the beach at Avalon is attracting the atten-
tion of all passers-by.
Two headmasters who have greatly loved
and been greatly loved by their schools looked
farewell on their particular flocks at the
year-end prize-givings last week v _ One was
padre Morgan Baker, of The King’s: the
other was Cranbrook’s head, padre F. T.
Perkins. The parents of Cranbrookians had
got together quite a nice little wallet for
Mr. Perkins; on their behalf Sir Philip
Game handed him the sum of £5OO. The
boys had pooled their pocket-money to the
tune of a silver salver for Mr. Perkins and
his wife, and a powder-box for daughter,
who goes by the pretty name of Dorothy
Perkins. She has all the flower’s sweetness,
but she’s neither a rambler nor a climber.
St. Mark’s at Darling Point will now be-
come the favorite mating-place of old Cran-
brook boys. Mr. Perkins goes there as
rector while Canon Lea is on extended sick
leave in England.
Having spent all the previous Sunday at
the dress rehearsal of “Athalie,” and being
thrilled by Racine’s lines to such an extent
that the white glare of the afternoon sun,
the grilling heat and the persistent flies
were as nothing, this writer was among
the thirty or so enthusiasts who gathered for
the performance at the Amphitheatre at
Balmoral on Thursday night. But, of course,
there was nothing doing. The temporary
lift-up of the fierce thunderstorm proved a
deceiver. Up banked the clouds once more,
out went the moon, down came the rain,
and the show was y>ff. Such a pity for Bel-
gium’s Consul Segaert, who had drilled his
forces into impressive shape, and who was
himself simply devastating in the white
robes', the jewelled head-dress and the thun-
derous lines of Joad the High Priest. It
would appear that blessed is he among pro-
ducers who pins not his faith to open-air
performances but sticks to the tents of his
fathers. The French-Belgian benevolent
fund was to benefit by the performance, which
will now take place early in the New Year.
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax is among this city’s
most untiring workers for good, and Queens-
landers won’t
be surprised
to hear that,
for the lady
was one of the
prominent wel-
fare workers
of the north-
ern Stat e,
where she was
the president
of the Coun-
try Women’s
Association.
Since her arri-
val in Sydney
she lias asso-
ciated herself
closely with
the N. S.
Wales C.W.A.,
and has just
concluded a
s u c c e ssful
year’s presi-
dency of the Harborside branch. St. Luke’s
Hospital and the Home for Incurables at
Ryde are two institutions which claim Mrs.
Fairfax’s active interest; and the “wear
more wool” campaign has in her a persistent
barracker. Photo, from Dorothy Welding.
Marie Rosenfeld, one of the leading ladies
in Doris Fitton’s Independents, made a grace-
ful entrance into matrimony last week. The
wedding has been one of the thrills of
amateur mummers all over the city, for
Marie has been giving and been given all
sorts of preliminary parties. Her husband.
Nat Seamonds, is equally popular, and en-
dured the usual round of bachelor send-offs
before Rabbi Cohen turned him into a mar-
ried man within the Synagogue last Wednes-
day night. Marie, tall and graceful and
rather like an orchid, wmre in company with
her magnolia satin frock a Brussels lace
veil which had been worn by 100 previous
brides. This was mounted on tulle that
flowed out sherbet-wise, and was set about
with orange blossom. She carried gardenias,
while the arms of her ’maids were spilling
with nasturtiums, which vivid flower their
frocks and hats had copied for their coloring.
Matron of honor Mrs. Samuel Snyder wore
chiffons in the green of the _ leaf, and this
green was reproduced in trainbearer Terry
liosenfeld’s frock, while the three ’maids in
between wore chiffons in the orange, the
gold and the pinky tones of the flower.
Bride’s parents, the Julius Rosenfelds, of
Woolwich, staged a reception at the State
Assembly. Mr. and Mrs. Nat Seamonds left
on Saturday by the Taiping for a honeymoon
in Hongkong.
Quite the most thrilling party of the week
in regard to the quality of the liquids served
was the dinner given by the Wine and Spirit
Association. To begin with, the cocktails
were served from a huge punchbowl which
was embedded in a great block of ice. These
cocktails were of a fervor only equalled by
the richness of the hors-d'oeuvres, and, as
though they weren’t potent enough as an
appetiser, the first wine served w T as a sherry
of such a body it seemed like an old brandy.
There were champagne, too, and liqueurs.
This Letter wasn’t at the sliivoo, it being a
mere man’s affair; but a young wine- or vine-
grower recounted the whole menu the fol-
lowing day. Abstinence or sheer genius
enabled him to remember every detail. But
he confessed that the heads would talk
about taxation, and that, although there was
a professional entertainer to lift up their
hearts while they downed their spirits, there
were no girls present. So there!
Zita Harris, who plays Aileen Peavey,
the poet, in Phillip Lewis’s production of
“Leave It to Psmith,” wears the most
sinuous and insinuating clothes. A white
moire evening frock with three exuberant
frills over each shoulder, the same forming
puff sleeves, and a sheath skirt that bur-
geoned into three frills from the knee down-
ward caused a wrinkle of worry in the brow
of one looker-on. How.is it done on poetry?
came the recurring question in the back of
the brain. Later the mystery was solved.
Aileen Peavey was really a crook by pro-
fession and a poet by recreation. That
white dress and the tailored black suit
that followed it would have taken a mara-
thon poem at sixpence a line to pay for them.
Queensland’s quillful:—
Lady Wilson and the Mayoress and some hundred
Brisbane women are arranging a fete for the
Crippled Children Fund, to be held at Government
House in April or May.
Sir Leslie Wilson paid his first official visit to
Southport for the annual speech day and prize-
giving at St. Hilda’s. “Whistle more and argue
less” he told the girls. Archbishop Sharp intro-
duced the Governor and Lady Wilson presented the
prizes. At the Southport High the Governor
specially congratulated J. C. Stevenson, the dux,
recalling that he had been a personal friend of
the lad’s grandfather, Archbishop Selwyn Smith,
when he lived in Sydney.
Pink and white roses decorated St. John’s Cathedral
for Horace Dixon’s wedding to Lilias Walker. The
bridegroom’s father, Bishop Dixon, tied the knot
and Archbishop Sharp pronounced the blessing. The
bride was given away, by her father; she wore
parchment satin with a. veil of hand-broidered
Brussels net and carried stephanotis, roses and
carnations. Sheila Walker and Marjorie Ramsay
’maided in shrimp-pink with satin caps. The
reception was at Lennon’s in a setting of pink
and white roses.
At St. Stephen’s, Toowoomba, George A. Taylor
and Stephanie Munro were made one. The bride,
who was given away by her father, was in
magnolia . satin and old Honiton lace veil.
Kathleen Hynes had a party at McKimmins for
sister Eileen, who is marrying W. A. D. Keys. The
hostess chose daffodil and the guest of honor was
in beige lace and georgette.
The Dickens Fellowship had its Christmas party
in All Saints’ Hall. Dr. Cumbrae Stewart, the
president, was Dr. Haggard (from “Sketches by
Boz”). The Philp lady as Lady Blaeklock, Mrs.
A. J. Green as “Tha Ghost of Christmas Past” and
Mrs. Agnew Jackson received the guests. Sir
Roger and other old-time dances were resuscitated.
W. T. Robertson, M.8.E., was in the chair at
the quarterly meeting of the Red Cross Society.
The home at Ardrovne will probably be closed at
the end of March. During the 18 years of the late
Colonel Plant’s treasurership the amount of £506,753
had been handled by him.
Merna Gillies received the guests at the Town
and Country Club’s breaking-up party, and was
presented with a crocodile bag on behalf of the
music circle, while Ruby Massey was handed a
gift from the dramatic circle.
Shasta daisies and foliage decked St. Andrew’s,
Creek-street, for the wedding of Andrew Mizer
and Blanche Armstrong. The bride, who was in
Brussels lace and mariette, carried arum lilies and
stephanotis. Misses M. Armstrong and E. Foote
(Ipswich) ’maided in floral georgette. Pastel-tinted
blooms adorned the palm lounge at the Canberra
for the feasting, Mrs. G. N. Armstrong, the bride’s
stepmother, receiving.


e
è
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Personal.
YY7ILL JACK COL WILL, late of Livaton,
kindly communicate with his sisters,
Ada or Elsie, at the home address in Devon-
shire, England.
Legal Notices.
|N THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
IN EQUITY.
In the Estate of WILLIAM MARSHMAN
late of Evandale in Tasmania Con-
tractor Deceased.
PURSUANT to the order of His Honor the
Chief Justice made the Seventeenth day of
November one thousand nine hundred and
thirty-two ALL PERSONS claiming to be
NEXT OF KIN of the abovenamed deceased
are required to send particulars of such claims
to the executor SAMUEL MARSHMAN in care
of his Solicitors Messrs. Gatenby Johnson and
Walker of Commercial Bank of Australia
Chambers Collins and Elizabeth Streets Hobart
ON OR BEFORE THE TWENTY-EIGHTH
DAY OF FEBRUARY ONE THOUSAND
NINE HUNDRED AND THIRTY-THREE.
This notice is particularly directed to the
descendants of CATHERINE DAVIS deceased
who was married firstly to one HEATH
and subsequently on the Fourth day of
November one thousand eight hundred and
fifty at Evandale in Tasmania to WILLIAM
MARSHMAN (Senior) deceased.
Dated this Third day of December one
thousand nine hundred and thirty-two.
GATENBY, JOHNSON & WALKER,
Of Commercial Bank of Australia
Chambers,
Collins and Elizabeth Streets, Hobart,
Solicitors for the said Samuel Marshman.
CHARLES BOXER WA R,E late of Adelaide in
the State of South Australia and sometimes of
near Warwick in the State of Queensland Gentle-
man deceased.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Master of
the Supreme Court of South Australia has pursuant
to the Trustee Act 1893 and the Testator’s Family
Maintenance Act 1918 directed that all beneficiaries
creditors and other persons having any claim against
the estate of the abovenamed Charles Boxer Ware
deceased who died at North Adelaide on the 15th
day of July 1932 and Probate of whose will was
on the Bth day of November 1932 granted to George
James Ware of Adelaide Gentleman and Elder’s
Trustee and Executor Company Limited the Executors
therein named are to send full particulars of their
claims to Elder’s Trustee and Executor Company
Limited Currie Street Adelaide on or befdre the
Ist day of March 1933 otherwise they will be
excluded from the distribution of the estate.
Dated the 9th day of December, 1932.
W. & T. POPE,
Royal Insurance Building,
13 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Solicitors for the said Executors.
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
Che mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily News-paper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Buildiiig,
Elizabeth Street. =
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
The Housewives’ Association, headed by
its president, Mrs. W. Thomas, had a
Christmas party at its clubrooms. The
executive presented Mrs. Thomas with a
leather bag. Another gift was the presen-
tation to Queen Victoria Hospital of two
insurance policies for £lOO each. The hon.
sec. of the Q.V.H., Mrs. John Sutherland,
and Mrs. LI. Fossett took charge of the
donation and returned thanks. There were
songs by Mrs. G. Lovell and a recitation by
Beatrice Ternan; and Dr. Ethel Osborne
spoke of her League of Nations experiences.
The president gave testimony to the value of
work of the organising secretary, Rachel
Robinson, and the hon. treas., Mrs. Wallace
Patterson.
The Business and Professional Women's
Club had a Christmas party at its rooms in
Little Collins-street. Dr. Jean Littlejohn,
the president, was attired in black georgette
with a coin spot in crimson. A couple of
guessing competitions which tested the com-
pany’s knowledge of overseas geography and
their acquaintance with Melbourne streets
were on the programme. Margaretta Webber
and Janet M'cCrae sang; Eileen O’Keefe
recited.
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Mitchell gave a
Christmas treat to the small patients of the
Orthopaedic Hospital at Frankston. There
were trees with glittering burdens and bal-
loons. Mr. Mitchell put on the garb of
Santa Claus, and made a bed-to-bed visita-
tion. The feast provided for the children
included a roast chicken for each child,
strawberries and cream and other goodies.
At the end of the perfect day Mrs. Mitchell
gathered up the 50 or so grown-ups who
came to see the party, and entertained them
at tea.
There were great doings at the Newsboys’
Club when the patrons, headed by hon. sec.
Edith Onions, put on a Christmas party for
over 800 lads. High tea was followed by
the prize-giving and a programme in which
moving pictures were featured. Mr. Herbert
Brookes handed out the hundred prizes.
Mr. Brookes, congratulating the boys on
their fine club, remarked that not the least
of its attractions was that it was exclusive.
Mrs. Fred Eggleston entertained some
friends at luncheon, with a game of bridge
afterwards, at the Lyceum Club. The hostess
wore a gown of white flat crgpe topped by
a tuscan hat with draped crown of black
velvet. Her daughter Jean was in figured
red and white silk with matching straw
millinery. . Among the guests were Mrs.
Dudley Glass, just returned from a trip to
England; Mrs. H. E. Hart, of Sydney; Mrs.
R. Vaughan, from Bananaland; and Mrs.
Huntly Griffith, of Ceylon.
The Kooroora Club had as its guest at
luncheon the founder of the first Kooroora
Club in Australia, Major Sandford Morgan.
The visitor, who is secretary of St. Luke’s
Hospital in Sydney,' looked in here on his
way to Colombo by the Orsova on a holiday
jaunt.
Mrs. H. S. K. Ward, president of the
Ladies’ Aid Society, poured tea for her
fellow-workers at the Quamby Club. Powder-
blue lace was worn by the hostess. Mrs.
David Carnegie said the thanks of guests.
Kathleen Smyth, who teaches the correct
pronunciation and use of English at various
schools, is off
on Christmas
Eve for Eng-
land, where
she will under-
take a course
of study of the
means of
remedying
stammering,
stutter ing,
lisping and
other physical
defects of
speech at the
U n iv e r s i ty
College, Lon-
don, and «tlie.
Orth oplionic
clinic of King's
College. Miss
Smyth is a
former s t u-
dent of Nellie
Veitcli, and
during her year abroad Nancy Ford and
Peggy Harper, ex-pupils of the same teacher,
will carry on Miss Smyth’s classes. The
picture is by Dickinson-Monteath.
Premier Argyle opened the M.U.1.0.0.F.
building, the tower of which, like a tiered
wedding cake, forms a new landmark at the
corner of Collins and Swanston streets.
There was a dinner, and the tower was
flood-lighted.
The wedding of Elma, third daughter of
the late James Starr and of Mrs. Starr, of
Hawthorn, and Andrew, only son of A. M.
Bergin, of St. Kilda, took place at the
Church of the Immaculate Conception, Haw-
thorn. The bride’s Limerick veil rippled
over a white satin gown and she carried
a sheaf of water-lilies. She was attended by
Mrs. E. 11. Kinnear in tourmaline pink
chiffon and turban toque. There was a
dinner at the Windsor afterwards.
Jean, eldest daughter of the late Mr.
and Mrs. Watson, of Soho, Drysdalc, ex-
changed vows with Alan, only son of the
handled Arthur Robinsons, at Christ Church,
South Yarra. A charmingly simple gown
of magnolia-tinted crepe with a -largish
straw hat was worn by the bride. There
was a gathering at No. 9 after the ceremony.
Sidney, only son of the Fred Downers, of
Gleualta, Stirling West, S.A., came from
Adelaide to pledge his troth at the Toorak
kirk with Melbe, third daughter of the late
John Roark and of Mrs. Roark, of the tony
suburb. A trained gown of creamy satin
with a veil of Brussels lace clad the bride,
who carried a sheaf of water-lilies. Phyllis
Mein, arrayed in pale yellow ninon with
meandering flounces, and Alleyne Downer, in
similar raiment of opal-green, were attendant
’maids, the bride’s niece' Meryl Anderson
being trainbearer in a frock of apricot tint.
After-rejoicings were staged at No. 9.
Dame Thorndike was farewelled at the
Y.W.C.A., where Mrs. J. G. Pott and Mrs.
F. Cato did the honors. Molly Warden
sang, and the billy was boiled.
The Winifred May Lees bursary has been
awarded this year to Miss A. L. Gamble,
daughter of the Rev. A. Gamble, of Portar-
lington, who will liaise, a year at St. Hilda’s
Training Home preparatory to mission work
in Tanganyika.
A noted philanthropist was Mrs. James
Alston, who died last week after an illness
of some months. During the war she ran
the Comforts Fund, and it was then she
earned a reputation for silence, never speak-
ing- at a meeting unless it was to say “I’d
like to pay for that.” Her charitable in-
terests included the Women’s, Queen Vic-
toria, St. Vincent’s and Alfred Hospitals, the
Bush Nursing Association, the Free Kinder-
garten Union and the Newsboys’ Society.
There was a large congregation at the
Requiem Mass at St. Patrick’s Cathedral.
In terminating Muriel Heagney’s appoint-
ment as superintendent of work centres for
unemployed girls Minister Kent Hughes
expressed the opinion that most of the girls
will be absorbed into domestic service in
the near future. Miss Heagney receives
warm thanks and four weeks’ holiday on
full pay.
A Francic Young camera here pictures
linn el le Hooke, who recently made a success-
tul appearance
in the name
role of “Prin-
cess Ida” at
t, h e Royal.
Miss Hooke-
received her
training as a
singer at the
Albert - street
Con., which
she entered on
a Mary Camp-
bell scholar-
shi p. Since
leaving the
Con,, she has
been a pupil of
Alfred Jonas,
and this year
she won an
aria competi-
tion at South -
street. She
has been e.n-
gaged as a soloist for the Philharmonic;
Society’s performances of “The Messiah” this
week, in association with John Brownlee.
Likely to become popular this summer are
motor-launch trips on the Yarra. Mrs. Tom
Grice and Mrs. J. A. Gilrutli on a recent
morning collected several children and some
grown-ups for an outing of the sort, and
even the adults, long acquainted with the
much-besmirched stream, were astonished at
the beauty of the upper reaches, where
willows and other foliage dip to the water
and make delightful shade. There is now a
regular service from Prince’s Bridge to
Heidelberg.
Dr. Ethel Osborne launched the show of
the painters who use Penleigh Boyd’s old
studio at Warrandyte. Among those repre-
sented on the walls are E. M. Boyd, the
Barrett lady, Clara Southern Flinn, John
and William Rowell, Mrs. Tweddle and E.
Buekmaster ; and. on the mantelpiece are a
small Penleigh Boyd landscape and a couple
of etchings. Private viewers included the
Blainire Youngs, Dr. J. Booth and his wife,
and Admiral Banbury’s wife, a visitor from
England.
Mrs. May Vale Gilfillan’s show of small
pictures, calendars and specimens of colored
enamel work was held at the Lyceum Club.
The sketches included charming little peeps
of bushland and studies of flowers and fruit.
Terence Crisp arranged a reading of Noel
Coward’s “Cavalcade” at a gathering of the
Playlovers. Fifty-six folk, including many
repertory players, were in the cast, and vocal
numbers were sung by Carrie Cairnduff and
others. Children’s parts were taken by
some very intelligent youngsters.
The small girl was splitting the welkin
with her wails while mother was trying to
force the comb through her mass of tangled
curls. In a desperate attempt to soothe the
yelps that accompanied the loosening 0 f each
knot, mother said : “Oh, Marjorie, don’t you
know that it is because the little elves love
to dance amid your curls that they become
so knotted?” Marjorie felt so important
that she underwent the rest of the toilet
complacently. Later on when the baker
came to the door, Marjorie was sunning her-
self on the porch. “Oh, baker,” she cried,
“there are little elves dancing all among my
curls.” The baker, a middle-aged man,
looked from her to her mother. “I wouldn’t
worry about that, Mrs. Suburb,” lie said,
reassuringly. “My two youngest ’ad them
something terrible, but we got rid of them !”
This Page has decided that the popu-
larity of the cocktail party is not So much
the free alcohol as the chance to walk about
and talk to your friends. It never comes
at a dinner dance, or at those affairs where
you go in a party, and stick around a table
with your own group all the night. Something
had to be done to counteract the modern un-
gaieties, with their tendency to lock each
little group the more securely in its com-
partment, so a genius invented the cocktail
party. And let it be said that at most of
them a thoughtful host provides a lightweight
fruit-affair that most of the girls and women
drink in preference to the glass with tlm
real kick in it.
At the close of the Parliamentary session
at Canberra a presentation was made by
her press colleagues to Lyn Denholm, of the
S. M. Heiald, who is leaving for Queens-
land to be married to Ron Turner at the
end of the month. The ’groom-to-be, now
manager of the Q. N. Bank at Tambour-
ine, was the first teller of the Canberra branch,
and was associated with, dramatic produc-
tions of the Federal Capital’s Arts Society.
The presentation was made by H. S. Innes,
the president of the Press Gallery.
Hector St. Clair, who died of lung trouble
in Melbourne, made Australia laugh for 15
years. He had a melancholy face and an
equally melancholy violin, which he concealed
in his trousers, and his shy appearance in
front of the curtain at the Tivoli was the
signal for a spontaneous roar of laughter. St.
Clair was really funny, in the effortless way
of all born comedians. Like most actors, he
aspired to play Hamlet. The ambition took
the form of wanting to be taken for a serious
musician. The crowd would put up with
anything from him but that, and it was his
chief grievance against the world. He was
an Englishman who ran away from a public
school to join a troupe of wandering players.
S. Aus. happenings :
The Adelaide University Dance Club has held its
annual gipsy camp cabaret. There was dancing in
the refectory and on the lawn, which was hung
with colored lights, and there were over 100 tables
on the broad stone terrace surrounding the grass.
At one end of the lawn a gipsy waggon stood, with
very realistic washing hung out to dry. Men and
girl students in gipsy garb acted as waiters and
waitresses. Presidents Dr. and Mrs. Rex Matters
entertained a party.
The Junior Mission dance in the Memorial Hall
at St. Peter's College was a great success. The
college boys’ flannels and blazers were in keeping
with the fad for wearing cotton frocks in the ball-
room. The proceeds went to the St. Peter’s College
Mission.
The English-Speaking Union broke into hospitality
with a garden and tennis party at the residence of
Dr. C. Duguid, at Magill. Dr. Duguid and Mrs.
Mellis Napier received some 60 guests. Mrs. Napier
wore a black georgette and beige lace toilette with
a black straw hat. Mr. Justice Napier and the
Mayor and Mayoress were present.
There was quite a gathering of the Elder Con-
servatorium staff at the residence of Dr. and Mrs.
S. L. Dawkins, South Terrace, to witness the
marriage of Peter Bornstein, teacher of the violin
at the Conservatoi’ium, and Marie, only daughter of
Mrs. Dawkins by a previous marriage. The bride
Wore a beige georgette with small hat to match.
Jen Taylor ’maided’ in a blue and white figured
georgette frock, and each carried a sheaf of blue
delphiniums. Dr. Alec Dawkins was best man.
Mr. and Mrs. Bornstein left bv motor for the Eastern
States.
Mrs. Wallis Kendal, who came to Adelaide with
her mother, the Moulden lady, on a brief holiday,
will leave again on December 31 for England. Mrs.
Guy Makin gave her a farewell luncheon party at
her residence, Strang ways-terr ace, North Adelaide.
Mrs. Keith Bowman and her daughter Nancy
have returned to PoltaHoch station, Tailem Bend,
after a few weeks at their town flat.
Lady Campbell and her daughter Marjorie, after
being the guests of Mr. J. P. Hines at Henley
Beach, are staying at Austral-terrace, Unley, until
February, when they return to Sir John Campbell
in Penang. Mrs. Hines entertained Lady Camp-
bell and her daughter at a party in the panel room
at Birk’s.
The Moulden lady opened the exhibition of etchings
by the late Henri van Raalte at the Society of
Arts Gallery.
Tassie talk:—
The Launceston Players wound up their 1932
season with “The Title” at the Mechanics’ Hall.
The performers grappled creditably with Arnold
Bennett. Greatly daring, they will essay “Journey’s
End” for their first show next year.
At the Victoria League reception in Launceston,
Lady Allard.vce entertained her hearers by giving
an account of her work among the women in New-
foundland. The winters there were a terror of lone-
liness, cold and darkness, so she sent for a loom
and a woman to teach weaving, and set up an
industry that has proved a blessing all over the
island.
The Guineas race meeting at Elwick was set
apart for the recouping of some of the loss on the
recent Agricultural Show. A warm day brought
out a big crowd and some pretty frocks. Dr.
Lindsay Miller, chairman of the T.A.J.C., and Mrs.
Miller, with the president of the Royal Agricultural
Soc. and Mrs. Murdoch, received the guests in the
tea pavilion.
Mary Johnson, Mrs. Landon Fairthorne’s pretty
daughter, has left Launceston on a long visit to
her aunt, whose husband is German Consul in
Japan. Farewell parties on her account kept the
younger set busy before her flitting.
Seen at the T.T.C. races were Dr. G. E. Clemons
and daughter Anne, in navy blue; also the Tom
Fields, the Andrew Raeburns, the C. W. B. Martins,
the Noel Browns, the Geo. Cahns, Mrs. V., C. Hall
and her two girls, the Rupert Agnews, Joan Ritchie,
very smart in striped silk with leg o’ mutton sleeves,
the H. P. Harrissons, and Audrey Cox.
We’ve got our dear old Theatre Royal back again,
as such. No more is it to be the scene of talkies ;
it is being repaired and fitted with new gadgets
for lighting in the sure and certain hope of legiti-
mate shows being housed there once more.
Westralian events:—
Marie, second daughter of Mrs. W. K. Anderson,
is wearing a sparkler, the gift of John Oldham, of
Peppermint Grove. Another betrothed couple are
Elvira Christine Tulloch, of South Perth, and Alan
Rex, of Ned lands.
Old Santa Claus jotted down the date of the
Meerilinga Christmas tree and came along in great
fettle. The small fry ran a percussion band, with
batons waved by Philip Le Fanu, Mary Burnet
and Peter Turvey, and undertook drama with. “The
Queen of Hearts.” Marjorie Pearse, in prawn-pink
chiffons, directed operations.
The well-balanced singing of the Oriana Choir
was heard on a recent afternoon in the Karrakatta
Club. Youthful Nancy Osborne, in her demure
white frock, showed herself a fiddler of promise.
Edith Edson-Brown, Mabel Balding and Stephen
Dornan were other assisting artists. There were
bouquets, actual and figurative, for the choir’s
accompanist, Veronica Kenniwell, and hon. sec. Mrs.
Treadgold, and a Christmas gift for the president,
Miss Hamilton, at whose home the choir assembles
for its weekly practices.
Perth College old girls were invited to cleave
the waters of the new swimming pool and after-
wards consume a picnic tea on its grassy banks,
with a rose-covered lattice for background. During
an interlude gifts were handed to Lucy Hosking and
Meg Howes, who have both chosen January to buckle
on the shackles of matrimony. Meg, after a year of
travel, will live in Singapore, while Lucy will expend
her talents in housekeeping on the wheat belt instead
of upon geology.
Elna Utting, Nancy Baird and Margaret Bird, three
white-clad maidens, each demurely clasping a posy,
emerged fully-fledged from the Kindergarten gradu-
ation ceremony. Mrs. Rischbieth and Mrs. Joyner
each had a word to say'; Miss Pendred, a spray of
dewy flowers pinned to her black frock, read the
principal’s report, and Prof. Murdoch, after insisting
that he knew nothing whatever about kindergarten,
spoke in whimsical strain for half an hour. The
students, in little black shorts and gym. blouses,
displayed their flexibility in health exercises, and
Nancy Baird raised her voice in song.
The Orient Co. chose Noumea as a. suitable, terminus
for the Oronsay’s tourist trip. Among Westralian
representatives making the voyage are Mr. and Mrs.
G. F. Pitchford, the Grant McDonald couple,
Mrs. Fred Piesse, Mrs. G. B. Brown and Maimie,
Mrs. Frank Manford and Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Hill.
Captain and Mrs. Booker sailed on the Strath-
naver for the Foggy Land. Captain Booker topped
the list in the Staff Corps’ competitive exam., which
entitles him to two years at Camberley. The B. D.
Nixon couple have also been saying farewell. Their
destination is Sydney, with M.L. in the offing.
Mrs. W. H. Vincent has gathered together a little
band of music-lovers who hold monthly meetings at
Minnawaria. To wind up 1932 there was an
afternoon of tea and music, each member bringing
along a couple of guests. Mrs. Vincent did the
honors in navy sprigged taffetas, Helen’s smart figured
crepe was belted with brown leather, and Lesley
wore patternings of black, white and grey.


Time To
-RETIRE
s>
n
'<70.
V*
•■•/ME to Re-Tyre is when yon notice patches
* of light rubber appearing on the tread
surface of your tyre.
These patches are a warning that the tread
portion of your tyre is worn out.
To keep running on a smooth tyre is danger-
ous and nearly always results in a blow-out,
often ruining a good tube—
Let ADVANX fit a new ROADMASTER
tread to your worn tyre.
We render same day service and give you the
same guarantee as a new tyre for a fraction
the cost.
ADVANX TY - RE-PAIR CO. LTD.
William & Riley Streets (Head Office) SYDNEY
(BRANCHES AND SERVICE EVERYWHERE.)
AN AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY THAT LEADS THE WORLD
The Hilling of Brindle.
BY E. S. SORENSON.
THE Cobb boys had caused a buzz of
excitement in the playground by
announcing that they were going to
kill a beast that afternoon. As Mr. Cobb
and his farmhand were busy in the field,
the butchering job was given to Mr. Phegan,
the teacher of the subsidised school that was
conducted in Cobb’s barn, with Johnny and
Henry Cobb as his assistants.
The doomed beast was an untamable
brindle cow that had caused Mr. Phegan
much annoyance and humiliation. Her bel-
ligerent disposition had made it necessary
to ascertain her whereabouts before he ven-
tured into the grazing area. Twice she
had chased him into the scrub when he had
gone down the little paddock for wood, and
once he was perched for an hour in a tree
waiting for the bovine termagant to get a
safe distance away. She seemed to have a
special derry on Phegan, and had an aggra-
vating habit of standing around and stamp-
ing her feet in a vile temper when he
encroached on her domain. So when the
farmer decided to kill her, and asked Mr.
Phegan, who had done a bit of butchering
at odd times, if he thought he could manage
it with the boys,, he took on the job with
a feeling of satisfaction.
“Of course,” he said positively; “we’ll
manage quite easily.”
The cow was yarded in the morning so
that she would be cool and fairly empty
by the afternoon. So many youthful inspec-
tors went poking around the yard, however,
that she was stirred into restless fury. It
was a cockatoo yard, built of logs and sap-
lings, and reinforced with roundbacks from
an old sawpit, in deference to Brindle’s
reputation. Still it wasn’t reliable in cir-
cumstances that continually aggravated the
prisoner. Mr. Phegan, who had been grind-
ing the wood-axe and the butcher’s knives
during playtime, roared at them to come
away.
“If I catch another boy down there to-
day I’ll make it hot for him,” he promised,
shaking his finger at the mob. “Poking
, around and staring as if it was a menagerie
or a zoo! Did you never see ia cow in a
yard before?” After a withering look at
the abashed group, he snapped out: “Pall in !”
As we sorted ourselves into places he
stood back and glanced along the row with
a scintillating eye that looked as truculent
as Brindle’s.
“Did you find the steel, Henry?” he asked.
“The old one with the broken handle?”
queried Henry.
“When did we get a new one?” demanded
Phegan crossly.
“Yes —yes, sii*,” said Henry quickly.
“Right turn!” continued Mr. Phegan.
“Where did. you put it?”
“On the bench,” answered Henry.
“Quick march !. ... Get the rope ready for
the gallows at dinner time.”
There seemed to be lots of things to get
ready, which kept the teacher and his assis-
tants busy during the intervals. The rifle,
an old rusty muzzle-loader that was used
to frighten cockatoos, was cleaned and
loaded; a swingle-bar was got for a gambel
when Henry had completed his geography
lesson, and a bucket of water and a cloth
were added to the outfit by Johnny Cobb
when he had done his sums. Finally, as
an afterthought, the old horse that was used
for yarding the milkers and carting wood
was ready saddled in case the beast escaped.
We were let out early, but waited to see
the kill. That sort of thing was an unusual
diversion at school; and the unconquerable
savageness of Brindle would have been an
irresistible attraction, anyhow.
Mr. Phegan, after a brief retirement, re-
appeared in old clothes that made him look
more like a sundowner than a learned peda-
gogue. He strode towards the yard with a
business-like air, now and again giving a
little twitch to his hat, and looking at the
external mechanism of the rifle.
The cow shook her head and glared at
him aggressively as he approached. She
sensed that, his intentions weren’t friendly.
She wasn’t the sortof cow that rushed into
far corners; she came slowly forward with
a ferocious gleam in her eyes. Mr. Phegan
shifted his hat again, then thrust the barrel
of the rifle between the rails, aimed for
several tense seconds, and fired at close
range. Almost simultaneously he was
knocked over, as half the side of the yard
fell with a stunning crash, follow r ed by a
mad clatter of hoofs over the rails and
down the paddock.
The boys gave a wild whoop and rushed
down to the yard. The misadventure was
something of the .kind that they had been
half-expecting and waiting for. They threw’
some timber off Mr. Phegan, and he got
up slowly in a breathless and bewildered
manner.
“What the. devil happened?’ he gasped,
his hand rumpling his hair and his eyes
blinking from the dust of decayed wood.
“You been shoot the yard, boss,” said
Terry Midnight, the black boy.
“Shoot the yard!” snorted Mr. Phegan,
glaring at the wreckage.
“My word!” said Terry, his eyes rolling
with excitement. “You blow him up, an’
cow get out.”
It all happened so quickly that that was
how it appeared to Terry. Mr. Phegan had
momentarily shut his eyes when he fired
and had seen nothing.
“Where is the beast?” he asked, looking
around and breathing hard.
“She run away—saucy feller,” said Terry,
pointing across the paddock.
“H’m!” said Phegan ponderously.
“Strange how she could survive that shot!”
He examined the rifle to see if it had burst.
Finding it all right, he stood it against a
post, and felt his bruises tenderly. Then he
turned to Henry Cobb. “Get the horse,
Henry,” he said, “and some of you other
boys fix up the yard.”
Henry swung up on to Bowler, a middle-
weight quadruped with a hollow back and
pendulous lip, and rode off at a slow trot
to show the mob how he could round up
cattle. But in a few minutes he came
jogging back.
“She’s bogged in the waterliole,” he re-
ported.
“Is she dead?” asked Phegan.
“No,” said Henry. “She’s only got a
bullet-hole in her ear.”
“H’m!” grunted Phegan disgustedly. “I
never did think much of that rifle. And
now the cantankerous beast must get in
the bog and plaster herself with mud. By
the hokey, I’ll plaster her. Put the harness
on Bowler, and bring the long rope with
you.”
Saying which, he reloaded the rifle, took
up his butchering implements, and strode
off to the waterhole.
The yard-mending was abandoned' immedi-
ately, and everyone raced down and clus-
tered on the bank to watch.
“We can’t butcher her there; we’ll' have
to pull her out first,” Mr. Phegan decided
as he ruefully surveyed the half-submerged
Brindle, who had evidently gone in to slake
her day-long thirst.
Leaving the axe and the rifle handy, he
hitched the rope round the beast’s horns
and backed the horse to the edge of the
water. Then Bowler refused to pull. He
backed over the traces into the hole and:
stamped up showers of liquid mud and
water, whilst Mr. Phegan fussed and fumed
and broke sticks over his ribs.
“It’s a mystery to me what your father
keeps this useless animal for,” he said to
Henry as he paused to wipe some mud out
of his eyes.
“Put a pebble in his ear,” Henry
suggested. ‘ ; . :. ■
“I’ve heard that’s a good idea for jibbers,”
said Mr. Phegan. “We’ll try it.”
Several eager helpers quickly hunted up
enough pebbles for a team. But Bowler
objected to his orifice being tampered with.
Shaking his head violently, he catapulted
the pebble into Phegan’s eye.
“Dash fool of an idea!” spluttered that
gentleman as he rubbed the injured optic.
“Take the useless brute out of the way.
And you strong lads all get hold of the
rope. We’ll pull her out ourselves,”
The rope was run straight out, and all
stood ready for the tug-of-war. Mr. Phegan
gave instructions, and exhorted them as if
he were driving a team of The
boys pulled their hardest, Brindle heaved
and bellowed in angry protest. With Mr.
Phegan at her rudder, and the weight of
twelve boys tugging at her head, she was
soon pulled out of the sticky mud.
“Whey!” cried Phegan. At the same time
he made a dive for the rifle, which now lay
alongside Brindle’s nose. He meant to shoot
her there, that being a quicker and cleaner
way than poleaxing her.
The boys slackened unanimously, which
wasn’t quite what Mr. Phevan intended. As
he stopped beside her, Brindle struggled half
on to her knees, and befox’e he could get
back swung her head round unexpectedly
and knocked him backwards into the hole
she had just left. With the thankless per-
versity of cows, she then rushed at the boys
who had pulled her out and robbed them of
the fun that Phegan was providing. They
scattered with wild yells to one another to
“look out!” Some dodged behind the trees,
others scrambled on to low branches like
scared ’possums.
From their retreats they cheered and
yelled and laughed. The cow stopped a few
yards from the boghole, glaring at_ them and
backing from the rope; but hearing a dis-
turbance behind her, which was Mr. Phegan
struggling in the gluepot, she wheeled
about and focussed her attention on to
him. Mr. Phegan waded to the edge, and
threw a lump of mud in her face. Instead
of retreating, however, she shook her head
and walked threateningly towards him, -and
Mr. Phegan retreated hurriedly into the
water. He couldn’t go very far, as the
water deepened and he couldn’t swim. He
stood, as he put the position, between the
deep sea and the menacing horns of a bovine
lunatic.
“Hey!” he yelled. “Some of you smart
boys get hold of that rope and take a turn
round a tree with it. Pull the beast away
from here and hold her till I get out.”
The smart boys looked at one another,
and the grinning faces that had been peer-
ing round the boles of trees disappeared
from view.
“Hey!” yelled Phegan again. “Do you
hear me?”
All heard, but none heeded. They knew
the vagaries and the insane intolerance of
Brindle. Though she had ten fathoms of
rope trailing from her horns, the activity
of her legs was in no way impeded.
“By the hokey, if I was behind some of
you I’d stir the grass under your heels,”
rasped Phegan. “Johnny Cobb!” he shouted
in the next breath.
“Please, sir, I’ve hurt my shin against a
log,” Johnny replied.
“That’s terrible,” said Phegan sarcasti-
cally. “Tom Fallon!”
“Please, sir, I’ve got a splinter in my
toe,” answered Tom.
Phegan muttered impatiently and spat
out; some mud that he had collected.
“Henry!” he roared then.
“Please, sir, I’ve got my foot stuck,”
cried Henry from the branches of a neigh-
boring tree.
“Pity you hadn’t your head stuck,”
growled Phegan. “And I suppose Jack
Thompson’s got a rock in his eye, and Curly
Spencer’s swallowed his hat. Where’s Ern
Green, the boy that’s used to wild cattle?”
Ern Green stepped from behind a friendly
gum in the background. “I’m lookin’ for
the end of the rope,” he remarked.
“Well, come down here and look,” Phegan
shouted.
Ern cautiously edged from cover, with
one eye on Brindle and one on the, next
tree. Brindle seemed to think she was tied
up, and tossed her head in dumb fury, now
and again backing and turning.
“Come on, come on!” cried. Phegan impa-
tiently. “Run out and grab the rope.
What’s there to be afraid of?”
Era got to the next tree, and took further
observations. Brindle in pivoting about and
tossing her head, had brought the rope too
near to. her heels to be inviting.
“Make her go towards you a bit,” Era
r6QUGSt6CL
“Go towards me!” Phegan repeated. ‘‘l
want the beast to go away. If you had
some of these leeclies at your legs, maybe
you’d bestir yourself. Now, then, there s
your chance, while she’s facing me.”
Em got the rope and made a wild dash
for two. trees near the hole as Brindle
turned and charged. She rushed past the
the trees as if she intended at last to go
elsewhere. But Ern, with an admirable
capacity for looking after himself, swung
round a tree behind her, and the violent
jerk threw her on to her side. The others,
forgetting their several disablements, hurried
to his assistance, and pulled up the slack
of the rope as Brindle bounced up again and
tried to plunge off at a tafigent.
“Get behind her, H'enry,” cried Phegan.
plugging out of the bog. “Pull her right up
to the trunk. That’s it. Now hold her
till I shoot her.”
He shuffled up behind the tree .in the
stooping attitude of a hunter who was stalk-
ing a kangaroo. The . ludicrous situation
had a demoralising effect on the team; bub-
bling and spluttering with suppressed laugh-
ter, they let the rope slip back several feet.
“Hold her, you mugwumps!” cried
Phegan, looking half round. “A dozen of
you and a . tree, and can’t hold one cow !”
The cow bounded forward and Phegan,
jumping back involuntarily, tripped against
a tussock and fell over backwards. Half the
boys dropped simultaneously with the sudden
release of the tension, but recovered quickly
.and, digging their heels in, checked the
cavorting beast as she made an effort to
reef away.
Mr. Phegan was now furious enough to
fight Brindle. Dry grass stuck to his wet
hair and muddied clothes, and altogether he
looked a disreputable object for a dignified
pedagogue. He had never known anything
but humiliation in his relations with that cow.
“By the hokey!” they heard him growl as
he recovered the rifle from the grass, several
yards away. He didn’t say any more; he
half ran to the firing line, two yards from
Brindle’s head, put the rifle to his shoulder,
and swayed it this way and that .to the
swinging of the target. After what seemed
minutes to the straining team, the crack
of the rifle broke the tense silence, and
victory was his.
The boys gathered round, each wearing
a comically-strained expression from his
efforts to look serious. Nothing annoyed
Mr. Phegan more than to be laughed at. In
his present condition he was nearly as dan-
gerous as Brindle had been. One or two
peculiar noises like half-strangled hysterical
giggles made him stare ferociously in a
moment of respite before he commenced the
butchering.
“You boys get home now,” he ordered.


Ask for
wm
fp.y
A»* r
. 4
K»;
S'*
■\>
y-:li
>•*•*
£ /*«
°Co ts®
htl3 UßqHSpouti<}*<) it 0 ' jgm
um
C
ESTABLISHED 180 7
♦his fine old Scots Whisky
has 120 years' reputation for
outstanding quality. It is skil-
fully blended for mellowness
and flavour and no better
whisky can be produced.
PERFECT! O
SCOTS WHISKY.
DXJ.M O CALLUM LZS COIN BUR OH.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE
HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
THOMAS BROWN & SON, LTD., Townsville
and Rockhampton.
NORTHERN AUSTRALIAN BREWERIES,
LTD., Cairns.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
feuLLetla.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 13/6; 3 months, 8/-
<K
0
o
&
0°
a>
$ i‘$ e .
o'"


DO YOU DRIVE
YOUR CAR fa.
BUSINESS?.
1
ulkluxa
'IT
: J
TTffTTf]
111'
i
1
iH * !
>n
0
HNI
fu
it*
1 1
a
Ik.
.
m
m
H
Here is a Battery that
will help you keep
appointments ... it is the
most DEPENDABLE
Battery you can buy.
With a Willard, you get
ALL THE LIFE of the
Battery...the more you
drive the more you
need WILLARD.
Scientific Insulation in this
Battery fortifies it against
warped and worn plates. . .
the most common form of
battery failure.
Willard
STORAGE
BATTERIES
Motor Supplies, Limited,
Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Townsville.
Westcott Hazell & Co., Limited,
Sydney and Newcastle.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Srooklands Accessories Pty., Limited,
Melbourne.
Automobile Electric Service, Limited,
Adelaide.
Atkins (W.A.)»
Perth.
