

•jilMnaaiiMOiMi
lllH-MaXOHtfl
*d
I
*:• V,
si
lies
V‘i‘H
wMim
m
itr-v
3fc&
>\ 4
S£k-
Si
S2&*IT*S
Stemming
W e\v ci
HEAD OFFICE: MELBOURNE.
422 Little Collins Street.
Telegrams and Cables: “Hematite,” Melbourne.
Branches: SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LONDON.
WORKS:
BROKEN HILL, N.S.W.
IRON KNOB, S.A.
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
DEVONPORT, TAS.
TEE RAILS
BRIDGE RAILS
BRIDGE and SLEEPER PLATES
BEAMS—CHANNELS
CLUTCH BARS
ANGLES—TEES
LOCKING BARS
JOINT RING BARS
SQUARES-tt-ROUNDS
FLATS—OCTAGONS
ALLOY STEEL
PIG IRON—INGOTS
BLOOMS—BILLETS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL—TAR—TOLUOL
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
SUBLIMED NAPHTHALINE
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA
FOUNDRY COKE
B.H.P. BLOWFLY OIL
WIRE PRODUCTS
Manufactured at the Works of
RYLANDSBROS. (Aust) LTD.
NEWCASTLE,
FROM B.H.P. STEEL.
steel Wire.—All classes and
grades for manufacturing
purposes, including Galvan-
ised, Bright and Coppered,
Spring, Nail, Welding, etc., “Waratah” Brand
Black and Galvanised Fencing
Wires '. • “Waratah” Brand
(Waratah Tyeasy 12501 b. 8.5.)
Wire Netting.—Rabbit and
Assorted “Waratah” Brand
Hinged Joint Fence “Waratah Brand
Motor By-Passes “Waratah” Brand
Barbed Wires. —“Iowa” or
“Waukegan” Pattern ..... “Waratah” Brand
Nails “Waratah” Brand
Clothes and Guy Lines “Waratah” Brand
Fencing Posts.—“ Star” Pattern
B.H.P “Waratah” Brand
Flexo Droppers “Waratah” Brand
For all classes of Wire Products specify
“Waratah” Brand.
MANUFACTURED AT THE
ME.WCASIL
The Bulletin
dfd
VoL 53.—N0. 2708.
Wednesday, January 6, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


OUR0 UR Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
I
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. *
Please, send, without obligation, your New Free
JGpp. Illustrated PhnSiaNship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 331
d
_ Soap
Cleanses and
Protects Your Skin
Unsurpassed in purity, it
contains medicinal proper-
ties which are soothing and
healing to the skin and
are a protection against
skin troubles.
Price 1/-
Sample free. Address:
R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
MEDICINAL
-tone*
“THE AGE”
Established 1854 •
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
In business to-day it is essential to
keep moving forward —pushing ideas
and using every legitimate means for
increasing turnover.
If your sales in Victoria have not
reached the high level which the quality
and price of your products demand,
include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By
this means your sales message will
enter the homes of over 119,000 daily
subscribers who have confidence in our
publication, which for three generations
has been the Business Builder that dis-
criminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
IU Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Better Business"
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
“THE DOMINION” BUILDING.
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
THE PATRIOT
iPjRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEN 1
AND ALL BRISBANE READS I
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIKEE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH"
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph" ’ i* re~
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane , 'Telegraph"‘ carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
**■ should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London',
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers’
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of'the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney;
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
ďf
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same da> uf publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner” “Weekly Courier” and
"Saturday Evening Express’’ obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
27l Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Uuitylings,
Margaret Street, Sydney
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
Caste
J. D. Bores ford’s The Old People (W.
Collins; 7s. 6d.) is the first part of a
trilog}'. It begins with the marriage of
Miles Hillington in 1867, and ends with his
death in 1910. Edward Shanks wrote of the
author, “I have heard him called the best
novelist in Europe,” and many will agree
that he has claims to the title. He has a
perfect understanding of the point of view
of the Briton who is ready to face any dis-
comfort or deprivation—live in a jungle
on a miserable salary, forego marriage, face
a lonely old age—in order to keep in his
class. The desperate and often losing
battles which such people have to wage
when thejr lot is cast in England become
heroic in his hands; though he is essenti-
ally an ironist, he never laughs at them,
and he makes you like them, as he does.
Nothing dramatic happens in The Old
People. Violent passions have no place
in this quiet, almost drab, study of a
family which is on the edge of
county society and fighting to stay there.
When gentle, colorless, middle-aged Mr.
Hillington slips with the governess his
wife takes unemotional charge of the situa-
tion, pensions the girl (who makes a suit-
able marriage later), and carries on as if
nothing had happened. Their only real
tragedy, apart from money losses, is the
runaway match which their daughter makes
with a well-to-do young farmer. There are
two boys. Bob goes to Winchester and
becomes the apple of his father’s eye and
a snob; Owen has to be sent to the local
school when the family income is reduced
by a third, and he develops accordingly.
Mrs. Hillington dies, after a quarter of a
century’s effort to impress neighbors whom
it was impossible for her to impress, since
she was a solicitor’s daughter; then Mr.
Hillington—kind, weak, over-bred, lovable
Mjr. Hillington—follows 4 her, and the book
ends. Mr. Beresford is a master of charac-
terisation. He concentrates on half a dozen
people, and the reader gets to know 7 them,
their tricks of speech and the sound of their
voices as if they were old friends. They are
dull in a sense—from beginning to end none
of them experiences real love, anger or
despair—yet they are intensely interesting.
They live, and in literature above all else
live donkeys are better than dead lions.
A Black Picture.
Cecil Bishop, author of Women and Crime
(Chatto and Windus; 10s. 6d.), was detailed
to look after women in the C.I.D., with
which he served for 30 years, and he co-
operated with the police in Paris for four
years against White Slavers and drug agents
He dispels a notion which is common in
the U.K. that the clearing-houses of the
White Slave business are confined to the
Continent. Cardiff, Swansea, Brighton,
Liverpool and Portsmouth are almost as
notorious as Marseilles.
Britain will always be one of the most attractive
sources of supply to the AVhite Slave trader, because
British girls are the world’s best troupe dancers,
and the demand is therefore likely to increase rather
than diminish.
As for drugs:—
It is generally supposed that drug addiction is
rare in Great Britain. I am sorry to say that I
cannot subscribe to this comfortable "belief. .. . Drugs
are taken freely in all grades of society.
He gives some quaint examples of the red
tape by which the hands of the British police
are tied. They have spheres of influence,
and one who arrives in pursuit of a male-
factor in foreign territory, so to speak, has
to hand over the chase to a local man. It
even applies in railway stations. An ordin-
ary policeman can’t touch a criminal on a
station, and a railway policeman can’t touch
him if he moves out of the station pre-
cincts. Prostitution is less obvious but more
prevalent than before the war:—
It is obviously impossible to secure figures show-,
ing even approximately the number of amateur
prostitutes in the country. But, says a writer in
“The Nineteenth Century and After,” “In analysing
118 ea,ses of venereal disease contracted by soldiers,
it was found that 90 of the cases were contracted
from this class, and that no financial transaction
took place.”
Mr. Bishop is one of the few writers in
English who have had the courage to affirm
that, women, given the opportunity, are as
promiscuous as men, and he blames the
Feminist movement for the conditions which
have led to amateur prostitution. The chief
recruiting agents of professional prostitu-
tion are heredity (38.6 per cent, street
women come of alcoholic families) and
poverty. Extreme poverty is another
tragedy which most Britons imagine is con-
fined to foreign lands.
In a tumble-down house in the East End of London
lived 38 people. The windows in all the rooms
were broken and
roughly caulked with
rags. The roof had
collapsed in several
places and had been
patched with tarpaulin
that leaked in damp
weather. Housing con-
ditions of this kind were typical of the neighborhood.
He has some ghastly passages about the
“totters,” the British equivalents of the
“wild children” of Russia:—
Dustbins and refuse carts are the lunch counters
of the “totters.*’ Most of these children have left
their parents because they are starving.
Women and Crime should be studied
and pondered over in Australia, which is as
complacent about its social system as Eng-
land, and perhaps has as little reason to be.
Casual Mrs. Bruce
Mrs. Victor Bruce can claim one record
which is to stand for some time.
She decided to fly round the world alone
when she knew nothing of navigation, and
had never been in a ’plane even as a passen-
ger; and within eight weeks of getting her
pilot’s license she was' off. Shopping in
Bond-street one day she noticed a small
’plane in a window.
Something' influenced me to step inside and ask
the price.
“Five hundred and fifty pounds,” replied the sales,
man.
I was just about to leave the shop when he added,
“And chromium-plating is only five pounds extra.”
That settled it. It was just like buying a motor-
car.
“Could one fly round the world in this?” I asked.
“Of course. Easily!” was the reply.
There you have her casual style. She
mapped out the route that night. It was
easy as far as Rangoon. Then she had to
decide between going on to Australia and
trying anew route by Siam, China and
Japan. “I won’t fly to Australia,” she told
herself. “I want plenty of room in the air”;
so she made up her mind to go to Tokio and
take the ’plane from there to Los Angeles
by steamer. The Bluebird, as she christened
it, had a wireless set, but she didn’t bother
to learn Morse, and when it came to choos-
ing between a parachute and a dictaphone
she took the latter with her husband’s
approval. (“For Heaven’s sake let her take
the dictaphone. She’ll never be happy
unless she’s talking.”) All she had aboard
when she took off from Heston Aerodrome
in September, 1930, were a sun helmet,
three frocks, a pocket compass, log book,
water bottle, some money and a supply of
dictaphone records. She spoke into the
dictaphone as she flew, and posted a record
to her husband at each stopping-place. So
equipped the lady flew over three continents
and the Yellow Sea, met and defeated almost
every type of storm, and only had two
crashes. Both were in the U.S.A., and at
aerodromes. She had the first while landing
—due to a defect in the undercarriage—and
the second while taxi-ing down a mud-
choked runway near the Glenn Martin aero-
plane factory. To that extent she was in
luck. Though the Bluebird was badly
damaged they handed it over to her as good
as new, and she reached Croydon and her
journey’s end, via New York, without
further mishap. Mrs. Bruce began with
unusual advantages. She had been a leading
motorist for years, knew all about engines,
was a fine judge of pace and had a nerve of
iron. Yet her feat was as epoch-making
in its way as Amy Johnson’s. It proves
agaiq that women—even feminine, happy-
go-lucky ones—may be as safe as men in
the air, and brings the day of the profes-
sional woman pilot nearer. The Bluebird’s
Flight (Chapman and Hall; 215.), in which
she describes her adventures, is beautifully
got up, and contains four maps and many
photographs.
Red Page.
Actuality and Art
J-L)- makes his advice to authors not
to write about places and people unless
they know' them like the palms of their
analogies
ol ‘ d ('made certainly in i n^esj^ect-
able company, since it is shared by most
art teachers, critics and even painters) when
he that a painter , m o ? der to depict
a hand or any other part of the body
wel] « has to be an anat omist.” That is
just what he needn > t be . If he had to be
an anatomist in order to paint a hand then
he would have to be a bot anist to paint a
tree and a geologist to paint ah ill. For
the purposes of painting, a hand, like any-
tbi i ; g a collection of color nntcbp<?
, luueuluu . ol paiCfies,
and it is only by rendering these patches
in their correct forms and tonal relation-
sbjps that a painter will product SOme-
., . , V, 1 . , ,
thing that lias the appearance of a hand,
The painter who uses his knowledge of
joints, muscles, tendons and bony skeleton
in tackling the problem of painting a
hand will paint hands as badly as the
/n , „ .. ,
(Rod Page continued on page o .)


Increasing the Effective Value of Money
‘THE SENIOR STORE’
A “TRUTH IN ADVERTISING: Integrity. " 1 MJtL, SHINIUK 51UKL
Anthony Horderns
Worth While Savings
FOR MEN /
5/11 Cambric Shirts
Men’s Striped Cambric Golf
Shirts. Made with double
cuffs and detached collar to
match. In smart and dressy
stripes on Blue or Fawn
ď
grounds. Price . .'W. 5/ i 1
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price : 4/11
9/6 Poplin Golf Shirts
Men’s striped Poplin Golf Skirts,
with double cuffs and 2 detached
collars to match. A dressy assort-
ment of neat stripe effects. Buy
now and make a genuine saving
76
of 2/- on each shirt. Price 9/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price . . . 7/6
7/6 White Sports Shirts
Men’s All-white Sports Shirts.
Made of a reliable quality
mercerised Twill. Smart shape
collar attached, and pocket.
Sizes, 14 Jin. to 18in. neck.
611
Price 7/6
Anthony Horderns' Sale Price 6/11
7/6 Underwear Now at
Men's Natural All-wool Under-
wear. Undershirts or underpants.
Summer-weight, and guaranteed
unshrinkable. Sizes, 34in. to 44in.
chest or waist. Undershirts have
56
short sleeves. Underpants to ankle. Price .. 7/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price 5/6
35/= “Iona” Shoes
fd
236
Men’s Tan Willow and Black Box Calf Shoes. "Iona”
brand. Five styles to select from, including “Fiteasy,”
"Triumph,” "Corndodger” and “Stirling.” Genuine
welted soles. Full and half sizes.
Prices, pair 32/6 and 35/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair '. 22/6
M en r s Mercery and Shoes, Ground
Floor, George Street,
We Pay Carriage.
Genuine
u
The People's Sale
Commences To-morrow
Now for a “Quality” SALE of far greater moment them ever was launched in this City. A
Sale for the People that will multiply savings that will immediately increase further the
effective value of earnings. The buying power of the individual must be
More and better for less money is the direct aim of the People’s Sale at Anthony Horderns .
Phenomenal Manchester Values
1/11 Superior White Sheeting Now at
ď
2/1 White Sheeting
Anthony Horderns’ re-
liable standard . quality
White Sheetings, plain
weave.
■f
Widths, inches 54 ' 64 72 80 90
Prices, yard, 2/1 2/11 3/2 3/9 3/11
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, yard—
-1/11 2/8 2/11 3/3 3/9
5/11 Damask Now at
2000 yards fine
Mercerised Irish
Damask at HALF
PRICE. Reliable
wearing and wash-
/
ing quality; assorted designs. 67in. wide. Buy
now! You save as much as you pay!
Price, yard 5/1 I
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, yard . . 2/11J
16/3 Damask Cloths
Take advantage of
this genuine reduc-
tion. Buy now and
save. Irish Linen
Damask Cloths.
/
70 x 70
16/3
70 x 88
217-
Sizes, inches
Prices, each
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Prices, each . . 13/11 16/11
Serviettes to match, 22 x 22 in. Price, doz.,-21/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, dozen .... 17/-
1/6 Pillow Cases at
Horrockses’ renowned high-
quality Pillow Cases. Linen
fiinish.
Size, 20 x 30. Taped.
Prices, ea., 1/6 1/8 1/10
Anthony Horderns’
f
Sale Price, 1/41/61/8*
Buttoned. ' Housewife.
Prices, each 1/7 1/9 2/- .... 1/1 0
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price, each ... 1/5 1/7 1/10 1/8
Manchester y First Floor.
Thrifty housewives
should take advantage
of this exceptional Sale
offer and buy now. A
superior quality Twill
weave sheeting which
we guarantee.
16
Width, inches: 54 64 72 80 90
Prices, yard . . 1/11 2/1 2/6 2/1 1 3/3
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, yard—
-1/6 1/11 2/3 2/6 3/1
32/6 Marcella Quilts
Superior White Satin-
finished Marcella Quilts.
Buy now and benefit by
these genuinely reduced
prices.
30
L
Sizes
Prices, ea.,
Single
Bed.
32/6
Double Lge. Dble.
3
4
Bed.
39/6
Bed.
49/6
Bed.
59/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices, yard—
-30- 36/6 45/6 55/-
22/6 Mosquito Nets
Protect yourself and
family against the
dangers of mo s-
quitoes. Ready-made
hoop Mosquito Net,
ď
fine mesh. | Single-bed size. Price . .
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price
Double-bed i’size. Price
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price
22/6
18/11
33/6
28/11
1/11 Turkish Towels
NOW
19
fd
ďf
d
Unbleached Turkish Towels. Manufactured
expressly for Anthony Horderns’. Super yarn,
Fawn ground, Red stripes.
Sizes, inches 18 x 36 21x 42 24 x5O 26 x 56
We Pay Carriage.
Write for a Copy of our SALE CATALOGUE. Post FREE
fd
ANTHONY HORDERN &. SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
df


/'Vy*'
A 1
r
‘is
SMS?
■
:
ASK for booklets and full
information from Tourist
Bureau .
New Zealand for your
Summer Holidays
gNOW-CAPPED giants stretched into the sky
by sportive Nature to lure and beckon the
city dweller to a new and fresher atmosphere.
Go and sport among their snowy peaks. ... laze
around their rambling foothills. . . .enjoy life to
the fullest degree. We’ll arrange all bookings
for you at this end.
Reduced Fares apply from January 1, 1932.
On’y 3J days* sail from Sydney.
lUbtßi .
ilk
TOURIST BUREAU
( AND ALU TRAVEL AGENCIES)
Martin Place & Pitt Street
(opp. G.P.0.), Sydney.
50 William Street, Melbourne
70 Queen Street, Brisbane.
m-
W.
€
m
m
11
m-m.
mom
WMM
m
wmmmM
wmmksMm
Ww&.
A movio, soon from
behind the camera at
Hollywood.
ACROSS THE PACIFIC
TO PICCADILLY
via AMERICA
THE short route to England,
strewn with captivating spots
whose names have so often stirred
the urge to go! Beautiful New
Zealand . . . Fiji, the fantastic
...idyllic Samoa and bewitching
Hawaii! Then, from San Fran-
cisco to Yosemite . . . Hollywood
to the Rockies . . . Chicago to
Niagara . . . from roaring city to
scenic marvel across the full
breadth of fascinating America to
your liner at New York.
Cool, luxurious, airy, pleasure-
laden, your Matson crossing is re-
plete with comfort, sparkling with
varied diversions. Movies... deck
sports . . . swimming plunge ...
radio newspaper ... orchestra ...
famously good meals and superb
service.
One ticket provides your trans-
portation for the entire trip to
England. Let us send you an
illustrated booklet and full par-
ticulars.
Write to Department Al.
Washington Monument at
Washington, D.C., marbleob-
elisk,sss feet high—memorial
to George Washington.
American cowboys do not
fight bulls —they ride ’em I
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney .... Telephone: B 7981-3
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original
Stupendous Clearance
Commences Bth January
The most colossal Cut Price Carnival in Murdoch
history. To meet reduced incomes, Murdoch’s lowered
prices before the Sale. Now comes the great clearance,
with prices still further cut. As a
basis, everything (except a few proprie-
tary lines) is reduced at least
10%
—while many lines are
clearing as low as . . Half Price
(366
To MEASURE
(formerly £4/196)
JUST consider this
saving! Super Murdoch
materials and workman-
ship for £3/6/6 the Suit
to Measure. Get the pat-
terns and examine the
classy Tweeds, fancy
Worsteds. Also pure
Indigo Dye Serges. These
full-bodied cloths are in
every conceivable weave
and tone. Moulded to
your measures _ ,
for £3
66
ALSO £5/10/- Suits to
Measure for
£3/16/-
AND £6/6/- Suits to Measure
for
£479
and many others
IfJ
*T
Don’t delay. Post
Coupon now. Get
the big range of
patterns and see
these wonder
values for your-
self.
Desk “R,”
Murdoch’s, Ltd.,
Box 3875TT, G.P.0., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Kindly forward me immediately
and without obligation, comprehensive range
of Suiting Patterns at Red Spot Sale Prices.
Name
Address
ALSO: 14/6 Ladies’ or Men’s Swimming Costumes, 7/3;
Men’s 45/- Sports Suits, 33/6; Men's 21/- Hats, 12/11;
Men’s 22/6 Shoes, 15/9; Men’s 6/6 Golf Shirts, 4/11; Men’s
11/6 Pyjamas, 7/9; Men’s 5/6 Singlets, 2/11; Men’s 10/6
Trousers, 7/11; Boys’ 27/6 Suits, 21/9; Youths’ 59/6 Suits,
46/6; Boys’ 13/6 Boots, 9/6. Thousands more.
Send for the big Sale 800k —FREE.
We Pay Freight. Kindly address letters to Desk “R.”
m
LTD., PARK AND GEORGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
“THE WORLD’S LARGEST MEN’S AND BOYS’ WEAR STORE.”


TECHNICAL BOOKS
ON A VARIETY OF SUBJECTS.
The Book you have been looking for may be in this list.
House Painting, Graining, Marbling and Signwriting, by Davidson, 10/6; Modern Painters’
Cyclopedia, by Maire, 13/6; House Painting Methods with Brush and Spray Gun, by Vander-
walker, 13/6; The Mixing of Colors and Paints, by Vanderwalker, 13/6; Automobile Painting,
by Vanderwalker, 10/6; New Hardwood Finishing (including Staining and Polishing), by-
Hodgson, 10/6; The Concrete Year Book, 1929, 6/6 for 2/6, posted; Foundations and Machinery
Fixing, by Davies, 4/3; Fitting and Turning, with Q’s and A’s, by Hanley, 3/3 ; Domestic
Electric Heating, by Solomon, 5/3 ; ABC Dynamo Design, by Avery, 4/9 ; Magneto Manual, by
Lanjman, 11/6; Alternating Currents, Their Theory and Transmission, 9/6; Rotary and Motor
Converters, by Smith, 11/6; Gauges at a Glance, by Taylor, 11/3; Electricity for Marine
Engineers, by Ibbetson, 8/-; Watch and 'Clockmakers’ Handbook Dictionary and Guide, by
Britten, 19/-; Watchmakers’ Handbook, Saunier, 19/-; Prospecting for Gold, by Idriess, 5/6;
Railway Signalling, by Dutton, 11/6 ; Getting Gold —ABC of Prospecting in Australia, 2/9 ;
Working of Steam Boilers, by Hillier, 5/6 ; Modern Photography, 18/6 ; Advertising Response, by
Donovan, 11/- ; Retail Advertising and Selling, by Hall, 16/- ; Practical Hints on Presswork,
by St. John, 18/6; Printing for the Journalist, by Allen, 9/6; Land and Engineering Surveying,
by Baker and Leston, 5/6; Dynamo Design and Construction, by Avery, 5/6; Saws, Their
Treatment and Care, by Durham, 9/6; Cabinetmakers’ Guide, by R. Bitmead, 5/6; Instructions
in Wood Carving for Amateurs, 4/-; Stairbuilding and the Steel Square, by Hodgson and
Williams, 7/- ; Turner’s Metal Plate Workers’ Companion, 5/-; Metal Plate Work —Principles and
Processes, by Barrett 5/6; Carpentry and Joinery, by Tredgold and Tarn, 7/3; Modern Furniture
Veneering, by Hobbs, 8/- ; Furniture Designs, 4/- ; Bedroom Furniture Designs, 4/-; Dining-room
Furniture Designs, 4/-; Door Making—Full Instructions and Designs, 4/- ; Living-room Furniture
Designs, 4/-; Bureau and Bookcase Designs, 4/-; Table Designs, 4/-; Carpentry for Beginners,
Woodworker Series, 5/6; Household Repairs and Renovations, Woodworker Series, 5/6; Furniture
Repairing, Woodworker Series, 5/6; Automobile and Radio Batteries, by Cross, 5/-; Electrical
Equipment of Automobiles, by Smith, 8/-; The Mechanism of the Car, by Judge, 4/-; Complete
THE MODERN DOWSER.
A complete guide to water divining, by H. de Francie, 6/4
AUSTRALIAN GOLD-PROSPECTORS’
GUIDE.
By Barclay Smith. Invaluable to those engaged in the search for gold, 2/
Hints and Tips for Automobilists, 6/6; The Petrol Engine—Handbook on all Types of Petrol
Engines 6/6; How to Drive a Car —the Niceties of Control, 4/3; Hoisting Machinery, by
Horner’ 13/-; Applied Mechanics, by Cryer and Jordan, 8/-; Electric Arc and Oxy-Acetylene
Welding, by E. A. Atkins, 12/-; Rogers’ Erecting and Operating Machinery, 13/6; Rogers’
Machinists’ Guide in Machine Shop Practice, 13/6; Constructional Steelworks, by Harry Atkin,
17/6- Cellulose Lacquers—A Practical Handbook on Manufacture, by Smith, 10/-; The Efficient
Boiler House, by Simmons, 8/- ; Brickwork, by F. Walker, 4/3 ; Gas and Oil Engine Management,
bv M. P. Bale, 5/6; Engineers’ and Machinists’ Handbook, by Golding, 5/6; Gas and Oil
Engines by P 0 Campbell, 5/6 ; Diesel Engine, by Orton, 3/6 ; Model Yachts and Motor-boats,
by Hobbs, 81- : Small Boat Building, by H. W. Patterson, 6/6 • Motor-boat Manual—Section on
Outboard Motors, 91- ; Model Boat Building for Boys, by J. Cavlleer, 12/-; Outboard Motor-boat
Book—Plans, Specifications and Building Instructions, by Chapman, 16/-; Twenty Easy-to-Build
Motor-boats, by Chapman, 11/6; Process of Electrotyping, 3/9; Introduction to the Study of
Color, by Littlejohns, 2/9; Pen Drawing—lllustrated Treatise, by Maginms, 9/6; Way to
Sketch by Blake, 11/6: Amateur Artist Self-teaching Manual, by Delamotte, 10/6; Scent and
All About It by Redgrove, 5/6 ; Bricks and Tiles —Elementary Treatise, 8/-; Practical Plasterer,
by Kemp 5/-;' Gears and Gear-cutting, by Gates, 8/-; Engineering Workshop Manual, by Pull,
4/- • Concrete Handbook—Practical Plans for Using Concrete About the Home, etc., 7/- ;
Book of Lettering, by Jean Robertson, 2/6; Piano —Scientific, Technical and Practical Instruc-
tion bv Spillane. 11/-; Repair of Piano and Player Mechanism, Together with Tuning as
Science and Art, by White, 11/-; Boot and Shoe Making, by Leno, 5/4; Poultry Farming in
N.S.W., by Hadlington, 4/4; Rose Growing Made Easy, by Lockley, 6/4 ; Australian Gardener-
Complete and Practical Guide, 8/-; Modern Dowser —Guide to Water Divining, by H. de Francie,
6/4; Wireless Communication and Broadcasting, 2/-; Modern Valves, by Ralph Stranger, 2/- ;
Mathematics of Wireless, by Ralph Stranger. 2/-; Electrified Matter by Ralph Stranger, 2/-;
Electronic Currents, by Ralph Stranger, 2/-; Scenic Modelling, by Hobbs, 2/9; Boot Making and
Mending, 2/9; Easy Furniture Building, 2/9; House Painting and Decorating 2/9; Leather
Working—Practical, 2/9; Simple Lathe and Its Accessories’. 2/9; Wood Turning Made Easy, 2/9
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
THE BEST HOUSE FOR TECHNICAL BOOKS.
late George Lambert did, and J.D.s
“critics who matter”—be., who share his
beliefs—will applaud the result; but it will
only be the map or plan of a hand, not
the appearance of a hand. The Japanese
understood so well the necessity of for-
getting what an object was, in order to
learn what it looked like, that they painted
landscapes looking between their legs.
“J.D.” repeats another common fallacy
when he says that writers “should at least
know their subjects as intimately as the
average observant person knows his palm
—that is, by sight.” If the average obser-
vant person knew his palm intimately by
sight he would be able to paint it after
a little instruction in the mixing and lay-
ing on of paint. Rembrandt, one of the
greatest of painters, spent his whole life
trying to know his palm by sight, and he
was still trying to know it better when he
died.
The application of all this to the art of
writing should be obvious. In revealing
Man, the reality, a writer is able to
describe not only the outside appearance
of his subject but also his thoughts and
desires. It is no doubt advantageous if
he gets both aspects of his subject according
to fact, but there can hardly be two
opinions as to which is the more important
one. It is true that Shakspeare placed the
inland province of Bohemia by the sea,
wherefore Ben Jonson regarded him as a
bad artist; but that may only indicate that
Ben was as confused about geography and
literature as “J.D.” is about painting and
anatomy. “The Winter’s Tale” remains a
magically beautiful work.
M.G.S.
Let us stick to the point, which has
nothing to do with magical beauty or
Japanese who paint landscapes by looking
between their legs. “M.G.S.” started this
discussion by objecting to my remark that
a novelist should know his subject, because
illusion would be ruined for many if he
didn’t. Apparently illusion isn’t ruined for
“M.G.S.” when an American novelist re-
presents his hero making a present of a
seat in the House of Lords to a friend, and
no doubt there are others in the same
plight even in these days of free and com-
pulsory education. But who wants to
write for them?
The best proof of the soundness of my
advice lies in the fact that none of the
master-painters of life in words—Thacke-
ray, Balzac, Wells, Flaubert, Meredith,
Galsworthy—can be caught out in such
gaffes as I cited. The master-novelists
didn’t spoil the atmosphere of their books
by making grotesque mistakes, because they
knew as much about their subjects ninety-
nine times out of a hundred as master-
painters know about the human form.
I know there is a little Melbourne cult
that says George Lambert couldn’t paint
hands because he knew too much about
hands, and that scoffs at the maxims of
“most art teachers, critics and even
painters.” Its members are said to get
admiring giggles from the girls when’they
dismiss Lambert with a pitying smile, and
argue that thousands paint better than he
did “after a little instruction in the mixing
and laying on of paint.” I remember when
this rubbish first began to be talked in
Australia nearly 20 years ago—mostly by
painters who couldn’t sell a painting to
save their lives. Dogmas of the kind—
that, those who bother about actuality are
Philistines; that, with “a little instruction”
the kind of artist who can’t get a joke-
block into “Comic Bits” will be able to
paint better than an A.R.A. —are always
springing to life and being hailed with
joy by loafers as a solution of their diffi-
culties; after which they fall dead. One
ancient principle never dies —“Ars longa
est .” Painting calls for desperately hard
work. No art student will derive anything
from that most dangerous thing “a little
instruction” but the effrontery to say
master-draughtsmen can’t draw. Writing
calls for long, hard, watchful years of work,
too. W’ork produces knowledge, as well as
technical skill, and the two form the basis
of all worthwhile achievement.
J.D.
“Stream”
The latest unblushing literary debutante
to be introduced to the intelligentsia of
Australia is “Stream,” a one-shilling monthly
published in Melbourne, and bearing on its
cover a green flapper with, the poems of
T. S. Eliot in her hand, and no clothes
on, who is marching across a world com-
posed of cogwheels. The first issue con-
tains an interesting interview with Aldous
Huxley, a note on modern music by Fritz
Hart, another on the theatre by Frank
Clewlow, and translations of critical articles
by Russian, French, German and other con-
tinental writers. A revaluation by Lucien
Bonnard, a French, critic, of the pictures
bought by the Felton Bequest for the
National Gallery in Melbourne is. interest-
ing. M. Bonnard’s criticism of the con-
ventionality of most of the preferences is
stronger even than that of local writers.
A poem in the first issue by the Melbourne
critic Bertram Higgins, who has lately re-
turned from London, is followed by a seven-
column explanation by the author in the
second issue. Either present writer is blind
to the beauties and subtleties of modern
poetry or modern poetry has successfully
reversed the experience of the nast that the
greater the art the simpler. If a work of
art cannot convey its own message without
assistance from another medium then it is
not a work of art, or the artist has used
the wrong medium. Still Mr. Higgins’s
poem may really be simple and the present
critic dense. There is always that possibility
to be considered. “Stream” flows well for a
beginning and deserves encouragement.
F. S.
A Satchel of Books
Primrose Hill, by Nelle M. Scanlan (Jar-
rolds; 7s. (id.), has a London boarding-
house as a setting. Denny, the Irish "use-
fur’ ; Erick, the big, blusterous Australian
writer-adventurer to whom much is for-
given because he lias It, and sweet Clare
Patterson are conventional whimsies, but
they are drawn so zestfully that you almost
believe in them. Miss Scanlan gets the
atmosphere of places like the Swiss Cottage
and the Finchley-road in a manner that will
make many an exiled North Londoner feel
homesick.
Zest is the latest Sydney organ of the higher
culture to leap into the newspaper arena with
a mission to shout its mind, though the
"S. M. Herald” fall. L. L. Woolacott, the
editor, achieves the remarkable feat of mak-
ing the topical notes of his paper readable.
Most topical notes are as trite and self-con-
scious as a speech on Empire; his are
brightly insulting on the subject of many
institutions which the righteous uphold. The
principal articles are “Birth Control and the
Churches” and “Political Freedom,” by Pro-
fessor John Anderson (which will just show
you), but this critic preferred the flouts and
jeers in other sections of the magazine. It's
a monthly, price Gd.
Ralph Straus’s A Whip for the Woman
(Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d.) is an account
of the birth' and death of a first novel. The
rococo managing director, lavish as regards
cigarettes and lunches, but niggardly when
it comes to royalties; the objections to
the author’s title (no first novel is allowed
to retain its original title by the kind of
managing director whom Mr. Straus
depicts) ; the objections to the book itself ;
the arrival of the six presentation copies;
the non-arrival of the royalties ; the author's
growing despair—all these phenomena will
be recognised on sight by anyone who has
had a novel pubished in London. The fun
wears rather thin towards the end, but by
way of compensation there are many inter-
esting little sidelights on literary celebrities
whom the author knows.
Isabel C. Clarke has many gifts as a
novelist—style, knowledge, honesty, taste.
The trouble from the standpoint of the
general reader is that her ipferests are
limited to a small and unexciting world. She
only writes about well-bred, well-behaved
English Roman Catholics, whose problems
are chiefly spiritual and who solve them
through the Church. Whose Name is Legion
(Hutchinson; 7s. 6d.) has more thrills than
most of her works, inasmuch as Ralph,
Pamela’s husband, has the misfortune to be
possessed by devils. However, faithful
Father Benedict is at hand when the unfor-
tunate man’s time comes, and he goes on his
his last journey “fortified and strengthened
by the rites of Holy Church.” The book
contains some severe indictments of
spiritualism.
Thin Ice, by Barbara Goolden (Chapman
and Hall; 7s. 6d), contains half a dozen
competently drawn characters who are mem-
bers of England’s upper middle-class, and
live in London. Giles strays with Sabina,
nearly breaks up his pleasant home and loses
his wife, Eirene, whom he loves, and then
pulls up. The story is worth reading for
its fidelity to life and the gentle humor
which permeates it.
From J. M. Dent, and Sons comes Little
Wars (55.), by PI. G. Wells. The great man
discloses in this delightful book that it was
not'himself but a friend who originated the
war games with which his name has become
associated all over the world. -One “J.K.J.,”
of Sand gate, England, was the first recorded
adult to fire a spring breech-loader in mimic
warfare, and “Mr. W.,” another friend of
the Wells family, pioneered artificial scenery.
The rules are explained at length, and there
are scores of interesting and illuminating
illustrations. A great book for a boy, young
or old.
And a Little Verse
WHEN LOVE IS DEAD.
Nay, then, what can be done
When Love has flown,
When Love has passed away?
Sit in the twilight gray,
Thinking how near it was,
Thinking how dear it was
That is no more to-day?
How can the day be fair
Love may not share?
How can the days go by
Hearing no fond words said.
Naught but hot teardrops shed—
Oh, how can Love be dead
And yet not I?
N.S.W.
SPINDRIFT.
LYING ON THE FLOOR.
To me upon the floor
all
upright things are strangely tall—
and tilting.
The lilting
designs of shadow-shapes
hurl
rhythms round, and in the swirl
of silhouettes the shelf
looks
changed, as though its friendly books
were dreaming,
or seeming
to watch the red-veined blinds.
I
welcome fresh perspective ! My
creative, yearning god
. goads
me to seek completer modes
of giving—
the living
of newer estimates.
Floor
thoughts are prayers from him, which soar
down —surging
and urging.
S.A.
KESTER BARUCH.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
and address must appear on the MS. No liability i* undertaken re contributions voluntarily submittea,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.L.F.: Sea battle! Why, a conflict of
cockroaches calls for something more Homeric than
that.... Hesperian: Thought and rhythm, but not
the craft to turn them into poetry.... Ethel B.:
The thoughts are all right; but you can’t make
poetry by cutting sentences up into stove-lengths
and saying “thee” and “thou” and “hath” —often
quite incorrectly, by the way.... A.L.McI.: That sort
of thing must be done better than that.... Marjorie
F. : Too placid, .. .R.McI.: Nothing there; not even
rhymes. . . .B-in-L.: If your sister-in-law’s like vofir
rhymes, she must be past praying for. . . .M.0’8.:
“From Poll to Poll” too long and too bad, also
too late... . A.J.R.: Same old garden—every young
poet must pluck at least one set of verses from it.
. ...F.8.: Well conceived, but the treatment would
kill the best plot in the world.. . .A.T.C.: Immature.
. ...S.D.: You write of the sea like a land-lubber.
....Penelope: Graceful; so little else... .ILF. A.:
Merely rhymed words :
Darkest night brings fairest day ;
Gentle sleep smoothes troubled brow 1 .
, To which we add: —
Ta-ra-ra-ra-boom-de-ay,
Call the kid to milk the cow.
.. . .K.F.O’N.: Our oath! We’ve been on the land
ourselves....E.L.P.: Well, what did you expect?
Most nice girls are unpunctual. .. .Tintagel: No, but
there seems to be a real being behind the writing;
and that’s a fine start.... J.R.R.: Not yet; you’re
doing the right thing.... Ken B. : Nearly. But why
the dash of French in the last line?....K. Kingsley:
A pretty poor picture. It called for a sense of the
dramatic; doubtful whether you’ve got it... .K.M.E.:
Your storm didn’t make any stir in the right quarter.
.... Apprehensive: Far from hopeless. Try saying
something as the lover of to-day would say it....
M.W.M.X.: No; there’s a new picture in “Dawn,”
but the drawing must be better. .. .A.G.C.: Did you
ever read anything like your “few thoughts on
Christmas” in The Bulletin ?... .G.M.: “The
Masterpiece” misfired... .E.A.A.: “Fish and Chips”
failed to tempt our jaded appetite. .. .Offsider: Rats!
.... Alexis: Blow Mother Shipton !. .. . D.M.: Dull
as ditclnvater. .. .Blackboy : No wheat in the chaff.
....H.G.: It ripples along, but the ideas are feeble.
. ...H.W.: “Fed Up” has some fair lines, but not
enough to carry the creaky ones... .P. J. 1.: Doesn’t
make the grade.... Rex J.: Idea old, and nothing
distinguished about the treatment.... H. Nat: Room
to carve one verse on this memorial column: —
I’m not ashamed that I did cry
When my poor old dog he did die ;
I can hardly think a man could be
So faithful as that dog to me.
But what’s got us beaten is how the dog “nailed.
his colors to the mast”.... R.W.P.: All underweight.
. ...V.C.: Can’t find the space, for one thing....
T.D.C.: The eloping wife who turns back at the
sight of her husband’s undarned socks crops up
almost every mail. . . .H.P.: Nothing in “The Black
Suitcase”. .. .E. 5.8.: Faithful tripehounds are a
drug on the literary market.... W.W.: Too remini-
scent of Ellis’s “Kanga Creek” N.D.: Must you
go to America for your slang?.... J.S.: They neither
talk nor act like dinkum wharfies. .. .R.G.: Keep off
Island stories until you have nosed around the
Pacific. .. .H.L.F.: Murdering an unwanted character
is not the only way out of a tangle. .. .T.M.:
Started well, then lost itself in a wilderness of
words... .A.C.C.: Turned to the last page, con-
fident that the crows had got him. They had.
C.s.: Subject has been fully covered J.0.C.:
Wearisome. .. .8.A.H.: Found the millinery salesman
dull. .. . S.E.H.: Too g100my.... M.E.M. : Ending full
of improbabilities. .. .B.A.S. : Far-fetched and badl>
told. . . .D.P.: What dreary yarns are spun aboard
ocean liners! G.E.O. : Better handled it would
have stood a chance... .W.M.8.L.: N0....8.W.:
Doesn’t sight land J.J.X.: Rough and
J.R.R.: Spelling is your weakest point... .D.S.M.:
You haven’t learned how to set out a story.. ••
R. : Might look you up if we ever go in for
fairy stories E.L.S.: Brevity is its only redeeming
feature A.K.: Off our beat H.G.: Been done
before, and better C. J.K. : A queer mixture of
P.C. Wren, Omar Khayyam and a sixpenny tract
F.W.: Try your local market. .. .L.G.: Swamped
with goat stories this week. And that one about
“Stepper” Davis comes in at least once a month.
... . J.F.: Needs stronger treatment. .. .V.M.: Take
away the forced humor and there is nothing in it.
F.D.S.: This is one gate they don’t crash
S. r .K.: Crude buffoonery R.K.D.C.: You add
nothing to our knowledge of mothers-in-1aw....
E.F.: Could see the end a mile off. . . .E.K.P.: Only
fit for an odd corner and we have none... . A.N.M.:
Weak as written, but the plot has possibilities....
D.W.F.F.: Foggy... .W.S.: Feeble parodies, and you
make it worse by writing in pencil on both sides
of the paper. .. .Fergie: Very poor jingle. Impossible
to send personal answers to every budding poetaster.
....W.P.: “Jane and Joe” failed to click. .. .G.B. :
Too late. Also too poor. .. .L.J.R.: A hundred
lines of banality and bad rhymes J.N.: Yes, it is
an omen. .. .C.C.McL.: One verse has a homely touch:
New almanacks are gleaming,
Adorning the kitchen wall,
Displaying the grocer’s scheming
With “A Happy New Year to All.”
.. . .G.W.M.: Philosophy good ; phrasing rocky ; verse
vile.... Heather: You send us a verse from one, of
Praed’s best-known poems, with the substitution of
“Sydney Harbor” for “Ratcliffe Highway” and add
the artless assurance that “these lines were com-
posed'on being asked.” Did some lad write them in
your autograph-book ?.... F.T.S.: Somewhere between
fatuousness and imbecility... .J.V.L.: Rain, rain,
go away! P. J. 1.: Flat, stale, unprofitable and
several other things L.M.C.: By submitting it to
a publisher (see list in “Aust. and N.Z. Writers’
and Artjsts’ Year-book”) ; you can copyright it at
the Copyright Office, Martin-place, Sydney; fee, ss.
. ...C'.W.S.: E. E. Lowe, 117 Cascade-street,
Katoomba (N.S.W.), secretary, Blue Mountains
Climbing Club. Subscription, £1 Is. p.a. The
club supplies all climbing material. .. .E.R.P.: The
book is worth 7s. 6d E.V.C. and L.O. : Under
the Premiers’ plan, each State is pledged to a
reduction in interest by 221 per cent., such reduction
not to bring the interest payable below 5 per cent. p.a.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CO Kit ESPONDEN TS.
F. 0.: Drawings are promising; jests are stale....
R.M.T.: Picture of three gents standing in drain-
pipes declined. . ..C.W.C.: A lopsided 10t....G.H.:
Found it hard to distinguish barmaids from beer-
pumps M.T. : Hopeless C.J.: Clowning is
feeble. . . .K.P.: Work of an uninspired serateher. .. .
L.H.: Scoutmaster needs drastic alterations to his
anatomy. .. .C.N.N.: Even the futuristic elephant
failed to raise a grin C.F.: Complete your course
before you send another.


ry"
-J -XI HP
jHr \
XX#A •.< £s&t§lP§ i?&glsl§:. ' ’:
m
A,
mm
: :
Siililll
»
A A
A X
1
S :
X
/’ A/ x \
r
mwrai
a.
Hhl
//
mi a
j
s
:A ’.'
4!
J*r
Ww
vmm
....
Hi
..
■
v^Si
■■-•■^^jHHHHHHHW
'A • yt^HH
■BBii
/
m
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 53. —No, 2708.
January 6, 1932.
SALOME ASKS HEROD FOR ANOTHER HEAD.
“The Country party demands constitutional changes to enable the people of N. S. Wales to get control of their own affairs, and automatically force Mr. Lang to
the people Largely as the result of Mr. Lang’s intrusion into Federal politics, the U.A.P. and Country party gained nine seats in N. S. Wales. - ’
JOHN THE LANGSTER: “And after all I’ve done for her, she wants my head! What base ingratitude!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Vox 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5793.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6' months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for fioz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
WHY CAN’T GERMANY PAY?
The world’s financial troubles are our own
on a colossal scale. During the war the
Allies wanted vast quantities of stores
which had to be bought abroad. The prices
offered were abnormal, the result largely of
War-hysteria—we know, because we supplied
wool, metals and wheat at figures previously
unheard of. America, standing for so long
out of the war, was the chief supplier;
its factories well-nigh burst themselves to
collar this easy money.
For a century the U.S.A. had been draw-
ing heavily upon England, with its huge
reserves of capital, for all sorts of develop-
ment purposes. In the first two years or
so of the war the British Government
raised internal loans, with the proceeds
bought up these American stocks and shares,
and sent them to New York, where they
were sold to pay for the American goods.
No other nation could have financed the
war in this way, because no other nation
had great foreign investments. Then France
and Italy ran short of both war necessities
and food. Britain still had reserves of
foreign investments, on the strength of
which America was prepared to lend, though
it would not accommodate the Allies.
Britain therefore financed its allies, pur-
chasing American products with the pro-
ceeds of the loans, and passing those
products over to France and Italy and to a
small extent other nations on the same
side.
The war over, the question of reparations
at once arose. At Versailles it was decided
that Germany could and should pay some-
thing like 25,000 million pounds: Germany
was the aggressor; Germany had lost; so
Germany should pay the entire cost in
money. Soon, however, the question was
asked, How could Germany pay? This was
a debt to foreign nations. Now, as Ger-
many itself presently discovered—and
France also—it is an easy matter to pay
an internal debt; we ourselves discovered
last year that it is at least easy to greatly
reduce the burden of such a debt. But, as
we have also discovered, a foreign debt is
quite another matter. We owe about 30
millions a year abroad, and, having run out
of gold, know there are only three ways
of paying it: by borrowing abroad, the plan
we adopted for many years; by selling
foreign securities abroad, as Britain did
in the early days of the war, a method
which was not open to us because Aus-
tralians hold very few foreign securities;
and by exporting goods in excess of our
imports. Germany had some foreign
investments, but they were .very soon
exhausted. It then did a little foreign bor-
rowing, but was soon as unable to raise
foreign loans as we are. The only method
left was to export more than it imported.
But nobody wants German goods: almost
every nation in the world, perplexed by an
unemployed problem, has raised its tariff
walls in order to shut out exports and
keep its own people at work. The position
is just the same so far as France and Italy
are concerned; they cannot find markets for
their goods and can therefore only pay if
Germany pays.
The fundamental error was in confounding
productivity with capacity to pay a foreign
debt. Germany is tremendously productive
—not so productive as it was before it lost
certain rich coal and iron provinces, but
still tremendously productive. But produc-
tion will not pay a franc or a pound abroad
unless the goods produced can be sold
abroad for a franc or a pound; and even
then the imports from those foreign
countries must first be paid for. And some
imports are still indispensable to even the
hardest-up industrial country—raw materi-
als, for example; thus Germany and
France and Italy must come to us or some
other country for wool.
Payment of international debts on the
colossal war-scale is, then, impossible: pay-
ment of even small debts is difficult in
present circumstances. Fortunately—for-
tunately for once—we are a raw-product
country, so far as our exports go; and our
wool and our wheat and our butter and our
meat can still find fairly satisfactory
markets. We are therefore in a much betted
position than most counti'ies to buy im-
ports. Yet our imports have been cut to
the bone, and must continue to be cut for
all this year at any rate. If we find the
payment of even 30 millions a year abroad
so difficult, what must it be like for other
countries which in the first place must buy
food and other raw material, and in the
second place have only manufactured goods
to offer in exchange?
But America is the great creditor; and
thus far America will not listen to sugges-
tions that these war debts as between
nations will have to be wiped out. No doubt
it would mean a great sacrifice on America’s
part. The Government would still owe the
debt to its people, just as, if Britain wiped
out the war debt owing by Australia, Britain
would still owe. to its own creditors the
money which it raised from them to pay
out on Australia’s account. But, as we
have seen, these internal debts represent no
overwhelming difficulty. They at any rate
are not responsible for the existing distress
of the world.
And if America will not, what then? Well,
of course, nobody knows; and it is just
because nobody knows that nobody will
trust the future. Take our own case. It
was a prodigious thing to ask this country,
which had been living so largely on bor-
rowed money, which had built up a large
caste dependent upon that money, not only
suddenly to live completely within our
means, but to pay a heavy foreign interest
bill with all our exports halved in value
—suddenly to turn an excess of imports
of over 30 millions a year into a surplus
of exports of 30 millions, in the face of the
crash in all our prices. In ordinary cir-
cumstances loans might have been arranged
to help us through; but now only a few
short-term bills could be sold—little better
than day-to-day overdrafts. The world
is not short of money on which a vast
edifice of credit might be built. But no-
body will risk a long-term investment; and
there is this feverish scurrying of gold
around the world seeking safety—first to
America, then to Britain, then to France;
and it is confessed that in America thou.-
sands of millions of dollars are lodged in
safe deposits and in other hiding-places.
Nothing can overcome this but confidence;
and there can be none until we have a
reasonable knowledge of what the future
holds. From that distrust of the future no
nation is suffering worse than the U.S.A.;
and in that circumstance lies the world’s
best hope for the future.
MR. LANG AND THE GOVERNOR.
The functions of the Crown have changed
with the years, and the transition is very
interesting. The King is no longer the
leader of his people—the cunning one—and
their supreme ruler. His province now is
to see that nobody rules them but them-
selves. As government by the people was
slowly established, it was seen that there
was a great danger of somebody somewhere
interposing and carrying his own will and
not the people’s into effect. The danger
grew with the growth of population. In
the most primitive democracies a mere
handful of people ruled themselves, meet-
ing, discussing their affairs and passing judg-
ment upon them. And they still do so: in
little, freedom-loving Switzerland there are
as many as 25 Cantons or States among
less than four million people. No man,
however honest and sincere, can entirely
and completely represent another; so that
the man who nominally represents John
Smith and 50,000 others may, in fact, repre-
sent John fairly or not at all. The
machinery of democratic government, while
providing as well as it knows how for the
expression of the people’s will, provides also,
therefore, for a series of checks to safeguard
the people’s self-governing rights and privi-
leges. There is such a check in vote by
ballot; another in the law limiting Parlia-
ments in this country to three years;
another, in some countries, in the referen-
dum and the recall; another, so far as most
States are concerned, in the Second
Chamber, nominee or otherwise; still an-
other in the Constitution and the Courts
which interpret it.
In Britain the King is the supreme check;
he has yielded up all rights of governing,
and retains only the right to see that there
is no usurpation of the rights of the people.
In Australia it is obviously impossible that
the King should personally exercise the
same right, as a general thing. Most of
his functions he has therefore delegated
to Governors. But because he delegates
them he does not divest himself of them.
He still has the power to intervene—not a
very definitely expressed power, certainly; it
could not be since it is to be exercised
chiefly in circumstances which had not been
foreseen and guarded against. But at will
be accepted almost without question that
the King is N the supreme and ultimate pro-
tector of the self-governing rights of the
people.
To carry on in N. S. Wales, as in cer-
tain other parts of the Dominions, a
Governor, chosen by the British Govern-
ment of the day—which was not the Gov-
ernment of to-day—was sent to Sydney,
with certain “instructions.” Generally
speaking, he had to do what Ministers told
him to do; if he did anything else he.was
under orders to tell the Colonial Office in
London about it at once. This was an addi-
tional check upon the check; prirha facie
Ministers would represent the people, and
any check upon them must itself therefore
be subject to a further check. And upon
the Colonial Office is the check of the King
himself. The world never saw such elabo-
rate machinery for the protection of demo-
ci'atic institutions; the intention obviously
is that under no conceivable circumstances
shall it be possible for a Government to
continue to rule the people without the
people’s consent. To that end one supreme
power is retained by the Crown: the power
to dissolve Parliament and so compel Minis-
ters to appeal to the people.
Fifteen months ago the Bavin Govern-
ment of N. S. Wales was sent to the
country at its own request. The Opposition,
led bjr Mr. Lang, put forward a certain
policy; and between his policy and Mr.
Bavin’s the people chose. They gave Mr.
Lang a majority. Among other things Mr.
Lang declared that his party would have
nothing to do with repudiation. Having
won the people’s votes by that and similar
representations and undertakings, and
having an overwhelming Parliamentary
majority, he put forward an entirely differ-
ent policy, which he presently embodied in
a Plan. In pursuance of that Plan he
deliberately defaulted on his interest pay-
ments to Britain, while keeping up pay-
ments to the United States. Efforts were
made to compel the Government to get
the people’s approval of this policy—a policy
not only new but in flagrant violation of the
policy which the people had authorised
Mr. Lang to carry into effect. The little
the Leg. Council could do to that end it
did, without avail. The Governor, the
first real constitutional check upon the
usurpation of the people’s self-governing
rights, was appealed to. His Excellency
did nothing, apparently believing either that
he had no power to send his Ministers to
the people, or that there was not sufficient
evidence that they were doing anything
they were not authorised to do.
Then the Federal elections were held.
Mr. Lang was under no obligation to con-
cern himself with these at all. He deliber-
ately chose to do so. He put up candidates
in 23 of the 28 Federal districts of N. S.
Wales to advocate the Plan which he had
put forward as leader of the State Govern-
ment. The appeal was to the same electo-
rate as that to which he is himself
responsible. Five members of the Federal
Parliament had accepted his Plan—Messrs.
Beasley, Ward, Lazzarini, Eldridge and
James. Messrs. Ward, Lazzarini and Eld-
ridge were defeated. The other two had
greatly reduced majorities. Of the other 18
candidates, 16 were defeated. Not one of
his candidates for the Senate' was elected.
Before these elections his Excellency may
have had reasonable grounds for believing
that his Ministers’ policy was approved by
the people. He cannot have them any
longer. There is absolute, overwhelming
proof not only that the people do not
approve of it, but that they most heartily
disapprove of it. If his Excellency believes
that it is his province to preserve the self-
governing rights of the people from viola-
tion, his course is therefore clear: he must
dissolve Parliament and so force an election.
If, however, his Excellency does not con-
ceive it. to be his duty to preserve the self-
governing rights of the people, no matter
what the circumstances, then an appeal must
clearly be made to some still higher autho-
rity. That our machinery of government
provides no check short of revolution to
wrest power from a Government which
governs without the people’s consent is
unbelievable.
THE CHOICE OF MINISTERS.
This business of government is surrounded
by a vast amount of pretence and make-
believe, and the dead hand of precedent
is heavy upon it. A crisis occurs, the result
of shocking mismanagement. It is shown
that there has been appalling extravagance,
that useless offices have been multiplied and
a policy of borrowing and squandering prac-
tised for years. It is found, moreover,
that for this ruinous policy and wickedly
bad administration all parties in the Parlia-
ment were about equally responsible. Yet
the best that happens thereafter is a change
of Government. The Jones Labor Govern-
ment makes a mess of thingg, and the Smith
Reform Government is put into office. The
Smith Reform Government then also makes
a mess of things, and the Jones Labor Gov-
ernment is brought back. In due course
the Jones Labor Government is thrown out,
and back comes the Smith Reform Govern-
ment amid a chorus of praises and high
expectations.
Occasionally there are changes. To-day
Smith denounces his Opponent as a person
entirely unfitted for Ministerial responsi-
bility. To-morrow his'opponent crosses the
floor of the House, and immediately be-
comes a person in whose judgment the
public can trust implicitly and whose high
qualities as an administrator are the most
conspicuous thing about him. But apart
from these changes of front, the practice is
for the very men who were responsible
for the disaster in one Parliament to be
recalled to office when the pendulum swings
the other way.
There may be very promising men in the
party—men who disapproved of the previous
course and foretold how it would end, or
who have joined it since. But they very
rarely come to the front until years have
passed by. The fact that a man was in
a previous Government, no matter how dis-
astrous its record, is almost always taken
as a reason why he should be given office
- again when his party returns to power.
The idea has been carefully cultivated that
Ministerial office is a Sort of trade, in which
the neophyte is practically no good at all.
The truth is that the man who has had
Ministerial experience can generally be de-
pended upon to do things as the permanent
officers of the department want them done.
The newcomer has all sorts of ideas of his
own. Fresh perhaps from a private business
run on sound commercial lines, he wants
public business organised in the same way.
A colt like that takes a' lot of breaking in;
but to do the public service justice the job
is generally managed. When it is com-
pleted, when the Minister becomes an
obedient servant to his master, the per-
manent staff of his department, he becomes
also a “most successful Minister”—like
Senator Pearce, for example. And, like
Senator Pearce, he is dragged back to office
time and again, notwithstanding that the
Governments of which he was formerly a
member are proven very largely responsible
for Australia’s dreadful smash.
Who for a moment seriously considers
whether Mr. Bruce really ought to have a
place in a new Ministry? Who holds him
personally responsible for the disasters which
have come to the country? Yet what was
the record of the period during which Mr.
Bruce and Dr. Page led the Government?
Everybody knows it in a general way: it
was marked by a terrific burst of extrava-
gance, by an enormous increase of expendi-
ture on both loan and revenue account,
by a prodigious growth of imports in excess
of exports. The foundations were, in short,
laid for a colossal crash; and the begin-
nings of it arrived while Messrs. Bruce and
Page were still in office. Yet if these gen-
tlemen were not offered places in the new
Government, it would be regarded by many
—perhaps most—people as rank ingratitude
and proof of jealousy and bad feeling.
No doubt there are a few things which
an old Ministerial hand can do better
than a newchum in the office. The old hand
knows the ways of Parliament and can
generally make a better showing there.
In plain language, he can sidestep the truth
more adroitly when sidestepping may be to
the advantage of the party to which he
belongs or of the department over which he
presides. But if either the rules of Parlia-
ment or the methods of a department are
such that the practical man of affairs,
the first-rate business man, is at a disadvan-
tage compared with the commonplace hack
who merely knows all the catch-cries of his
party and all the tricks of his profession
of politics, then so much the worse for the
rules of Parliament and for departmental
methods. What the public life of this
country calls for (and doubtless the public
life of almost every other country) is the
help of a far . greater number of tried and
proved business men; and if there is any-
thing in Parliamentary rules or depart-
mental methods which handicaps those men,
then those rules and methods ought to be
revised.
In the U.S.A. this recognition of the vast
importance of having business men in high
administrative posts has been carried so far
that a member of Congress is almost the only
person who cannot be a Minister. The Presi-
dent, in choosing his Cabinet, ranges over
the whole province of his political friends
and supporters outside Parliament, and they
need not be keenly political either. The
result is that very rarely is an office filled
by one who previously occupied it. Our
own system would be a better one than that
if we could only get out of the stupid habit
of sending back to office men who were pre-
viously members of an Administration which
time has proved incompetent.
It all springs out of what is known as
loyalty to party. Now, it is doubtful whether
there ought to be any such thing. What
there certainly ought to be is loyalty to
principle. A party is a transient object;
a mere means to an end. It may be a good
or a bad instrument; it may serve well the
principles for which it is supposed to. stand,
or serve them ill; it may even desert
its principles and betray them, as the Labor
party in N. S. Wales is doing to-day. We
have, unfortunately, allowed the person to
take the place of the principle. A victory
for this principle or that is regarded as a
victory for this group of men or that. We
have, in fact, reached the point where an
election is fought by a group of men who,
calling themselves Labor, take the name
of a single leader and refer to themselves
as Lang-plan candidates.
If two countries made a hobby of fighting
one another, how would they chootse their
leaders? If Southland were ignominiously
defeated last time by Northland, would
Southland regard the defeat as pointing
definitely to the defeated commander-in-
chief and his generals as the best qualified
for the same posts in the next battle? Of
course they might be. But if history had
showed conclusively that they had made
many mistakes, that their whole plan of
battle was wrong, that they had been waste-
ful of men and money, that they had made
their ultimate defeat certain, would there not
be a good prima-facie case for changes in
the command? The story that none but,
those who have fought can be expected to
fight successfully is a fiction; still more is
it, a fiction that only those should be trusted
with command who have had it and been
relieved of it because of conspicuous failure.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New Ministry.
The case called for a National Government;
and Mr. Lyons and his advisers have ,given
us something as remote from that as pos-
sible. True, it is not altogether Mr. Lyons’s
fault. In the first place the country
threw out so many of the foremost Labor-
ites that there was hardly anything worth
while to be got from that quarter; but the
negotiations between the U.A.P. and the
U.C.P. were so badly handled that, to the
astonishment of the country, the U.C.P. is
also outside the Ministry. Even within the
narrow limits of the U.A.P. itself a poor
choice has been made.
No doubt Page was wrong to demand
Trade and Customs or nothing. But the
successful negotiator is the one who can
get the other person—Page in this case —
to take something else. If, as Page asserts,
most of the important jobs had been filled
before he was called in at all, then Lyons
courted a rebuff.
The position is difficult, and at the
moment the present Government looks very
much like a stopgap. What is to be chiefly
desired is that nothing shall be done which
will make it impossible, or even difficult, for
the strongest men of all parties to come
together presently. Meantime even the
poorest prawn of a Government would be
entitled to a fair run. In every private
business there are divisions of opinion as
to what ought to be the policy in certain
circumstances; but once a decision has been
reached, once a policy has been adopted,
all parties do their best to make it a suc-
cess. A great commercial undertaking could
not live otherwise. In public affairs, on
the other hand, the common practice is for
the opponent of a policy to remain its
opponent, to put every obstacle in its path.
Most times it doesn’t matter greatly; the
difference is usually between Tweedledum
and Tweedledee. But the position is verv
different to-day, with over 300,000 people
out of work and their condition gradually
growing worse. If we cannot soon show
that we are making real progress towards
solving our unemploj’ed problem, anything
may happen. Ministers should, therefore,
not only be given a chance, but have the
hearty co-operation of all parties. If, after
a reasonable period, it is clear that they are
making little or no progress, then they can
be thrown out without compunction.
♦ ——
Rocks Ahead of the Government.
There is a loose saying that a strong
majority makes a weak party. There is no
reason at all why that should be true; that
it often has been true is because the so-
called strong party was not a party at all,
but a number of conflicting interests and
opinions thrown together by some common
danger, and tending to fall to pieces the
moment the common danger was forgotten.
It would certainly be so with the present
U.A.P. and U.C.P. combination; yet
before Parliament could be called together,
before even all the returns were in, a rift
between U.A.P. and U.C.P. showed itself.
Everything depends upon the strength of
the bond, and the strength of the bond
lies in the constant realisation of the
common danger.
What is that danger? Actually two or
three things merging into one. First,
financial collapse, the result of default and
demoralisation; second, the growth of the
army of unemployed and of Communism
side by side. Bring those together and we
have all the elements of revolution, with
the overthrow of our present civilisation
as a very possible consequence. The moment
we lose sight of that black cloud in our
sky, overshadowing everything, the triumph-
ant party at the recent election is in danger
of disruption.
We are far too much inclined to raise
hosannas, saying that the victory has been
won and collapse is no longer possible,
because, after having had an excess of
imports amounting in one year to over 40
millions, we are now living at a rate which
should give us the requisite surplus of 30
millions of exports. We must have this
surplus to pay our interest bills, leaving
not a penny over; and in the next two
years we have 118 millions of debt falling
due overseas and in Australia—23 millions
of it overseas. We cannot know what the
netft two seasons will be: we only know
that it is not reasonable to expect them
to equal the two prolific seasons which
have just past. Therefore we are working
on no margin at all where safety demands
that, there should be a wide one.
Meantime there is a shrill call from the
country for the reduction or removal of
many customs duties. Of course the present
hastily thrown together tariff is not a
perfect instrument. But it was necessary,
not for the purposes of Protection, but to
adjust the trade balance with a speed
which nothing else could achieve; and that it
is serving its purpose is shown by the swing
from an excess of imports to a surplus of
exports. But it is just as necessary to
maintain that, surplus as it was to produce
it; indeed, as we have seen, it is taking
an appalling risk not to increase the surplus
while conditions of climate are in our
favor. This is not primarily a question
of Protection and Freetrade at all; it is
a question of prohibiting or discouraging
the purchase abroad of a single thing,
which can be made at home, so that every
possible farthing of the money we get for
our exports may be available to pay our
current debts and make some provision for
future ones.
And the menace of financial collapse
must be kept off all the more resolutely
because the chances are we are in for some
painful disillusionment regarding the un-
employed. There is not going to be any
swift absorption of these into industiy; there
may even be a temporary increase of un-
employed after the harvesting, and when
the economy comb gets to work, as get
to work it must.
4
Not “Back” to Prosperity, Mr. Lyons!
In his New Year message Mr. Lyons says
no stone must be left unturned in the task
of “bringing the nation to conditions of
prosperity.” The phrase is unfortunate. For
many decades Australia has been seeking
ease and luxury by pledging the credit of
posterity. Every million added to the
mortgage brought nearer the time when a
dismal To-day would have to reckon with the
consequences of all the careless Yesterdays.
The economic conditions in Australia in the
years just before the crash were rottenly
unsound. Imports largely exceeded exports,
and an appearance of solvency was possible
only so long as we could borrow from the
country’s creditors enough to pay them
interest after providing for the unfavorable
trade balance.
Inhumanly and diabolically cruel as the
suggestion must seem to any politician
reared in the school of posterity-pledging,
it is not possible to go back to that sort of
prosperity. Our credit abroad isn’t good any
longer. The reason for that is not pri-
marily because we borrowed largely, but
because we made what is seen in retro-
spect to be almost criminally foolish use of
the money. We told our creditors we were
borrowing for reproductive purposes, to
build railways, roads and bridges, to de-
velop our “vast natural resources”; then
we allowed the politicians to use the money
primarily to buy votes.
Yet we must still have a public-works
programme, though necessarily a modest
one; and to finance it we shall have to get
credit somewhere. As we are unlikely to
get it abroad, we must get it at home,
and w r e shall have to be able to assure
investors on the spot that the money ought
to be spent, and that it will create assets
and not further liabilities; to fulfil that
condition it probably will be found impera-
tive to decentralise public works. Outside
main roads (with which we are already well
stocked) and trunk railways (mostly built)
there are no jobs looming which municipali-
ties or groups of municipalities might not
appropriately handle.
A reorganisation of public-works policy,
of course, is largely a matter for the States,
but the Federal authority can give a lead.
It will probably discover that in this, as in
every other phase of governmental activity
requiring the authorisation of loan expendi-
ture, public confidence will be registered in
ratio to the extent to which the central
Government removes itself from the pic-
ture. Particularly essential does it seem
to be that central Governments, Federal
and State, should as soon as possible get rid
of their functions as payers of doles of any
description. Charitable aid is better admin-
istered by a parish than by a Parlia-
ment —for one reason because a parish
makes charitable aid so dashed unpopular.
♦
Repudiating Repudiation.
“The Labor party sets its face against all
repudiation, whether it is of the kind prac-
tised by Premier Bavin or that which is
preached by Alderman Garden.” Lang said
that in his policy speech at Auburn in Sep-
tember, 1930; the words appear in the report
published in his own newspaper. Three
months later he proposed repudiation, in
the form of an interest swindfle, at the
Premiers’ conference; on April 1 he refused
to pay the British creditors of N. S. Wales
but paid its American creditors; and he went
on working his interest swindle—at the
expense, as it happened, of the Common-
wealth and the sister-States —until Black
Thursday arrived in the N.S.W. Govern-
ment departments. To get Commonwealth
money for his deluded civil-service support-
ers he repudiated repudiation and became a
party to the Premiers’ plan; then he repudi-
ated that plan and sent members of his
obsequious mob to Adelaide and Brisbane to
advocate his plan. Last month, comoleting
the circle, he appeared on Alderman
Garden’s platform and recommended that
importation to the electors of Cook.
For years this Garden gloried in being
the leading representative in Australia of
the Moscow repudiationists. He stood as
a Communist candidate for the Sydney
Assembly electorate in 1925. He was con-
cerned in all the crazy waterfront disturb-
ances and in the timber strike, made
infamous by the burning of the union
ballot-papers issued by the authority of the
Federal Arbitration Court and by the bru-
talities of the basher gang. He outraged
Australian sentiment by saying he didn’t care
a dump whether the Commonwealth was
“black, brown or brindle.” To put such
a person in the field as a “Labor” man
shows how ill-furnished the Langsters are
with brains. When there is nothing against
the Labor nominee, Cook is as safe a Labor
seat as there is in the Commonwealth. But
the majority of the Cook electors seem to
have regarded Garden’s candidature as an
insult, just as the majority of the N.S.W.
people regarded the candidature of Donald
Grant for the Senate six years ago. Any-
way, they rejected him in favor of the
younger Riley, who fought the campaign
against odds, having no organisation worth
mentioning. To no feature of the elections
will the people look back with greater
satisfaction.
Langism, if it survives as a Federal fac-
tion, will have four exponents in the House
of Reps—three Sydney “industrialists” and
James, from the Hunter. That gentleman,
to his intense surprise, failed of a majority
on the first count (he was unopposed last
time), and if his health had permitted
Matthew Charlton to stand, James would
very probably have shared the fate of the
Lang-planner in Newcastle. That individual
was soundly beaten by the veteran Watkins.
Other mining districts which turned the
Langsters down were Lithgow (part of Mac-
quarie), the South Coast coalfields (to the
astonishment of the garrulous Lazzarini)
and the Barrier. And subsequent to the
defeat of Kidd in Newcastle and the dis-
tinct rebuke administered to James, the
men in the pits from which the B.H.P.
steamers draw their coal supplies sourly
refused to obey strike orders issued by their
president, “Bondy” Hoare, and his pals in
the Seamen’s Union. This is flat mutiny,
and, if it grows, even Mr. Badly will feel
uneasy in his lordly pleasure-house on Lake
Macquarie’s shore.
A Cloud in Queensland.
Supporters of the Queensland Government
are perturbed at the marked swing to
Labor at the Federal elections in that State,
especially as disclosed in the Senate figures,
a reliable index to State-wide feeling. The
causes are easy to seek. The Moore Adminis-
tration dealt drastically with the economic
situation as soon as the necessity became
apparent. Many branches of the bloated
public service were heavily reduced in
personnel, and salaries were cut all round
as well, the Railway Department, for years
a refuge for the loafing and incompetent
friends of earlier Governments, suffering
especially. These people, with their families
and friends, formed a solid nucleus of anti-
Government voters, and they were rein-
forced by many who, supporters of non-
Labor candidates as a rule, were affected by
the suspension of the State Arbitration
Court awards, the considerable army of
employees in banks, insurance companies,
and commercial institutions furnishing a
case in point. Generally, it may be assumed
that the civil service turned its vote to
Labor on this occasion, as that of N. S.
Wales was not, ashamed to do when its
support inflicted Lang on that State.
It must be said that Premier Moore and
his party faced an unpleasant and politi-
cally dangerous task with courage and disre-
gard of consequences to themselves and
their cause in their desire to put the State
on its feet again; but in doing so they
have reared up a host of new enemies ,of
the type which cannot see beyond self when
asked to contemplate a sacrifice.
It is possible that the readjustment of the
State electoral quotas on an equitable basis
may help the Moore Government to power
again at the next election. Whatever the
outcome, there is one duty the Government
owes the State before it goes to the polls.
That is the re-establishment of a Second
Chamber as a safeguard against doctrinaire
legislation and unscrupulous exploitation of
power by any Government whatsoever.
♦
Unemployment In Queensland.
“Gad” from somewhere on the track (and
this was written well before the elections):
The travellers’ dole system in Queensland, which
sends hundreds of single men out over an almost
limitless country in search of work which is hardly
to be found, and to eke out existence on ss. a week,
is one that is only sustainable against grave charges
of inhumanity if it can be regarded as a temporary
expedient while some other system is being thought
out. No man could live on ss. a week. Even the
most expert housekeeper, with all the appliances for
the economic usage of food about her, would be
hard pressed to maintain budget equilibrium within
such a limit. And when we consider that the indi-
vidual on the road in Queensland has to make his
great decision every Tuesday, at some wayside store,
where foodstuff is inordinately dear, and has to carry
his week’s shopping with him, then it will be realised
that every man on the track has to face at least
three days’ starvation in every week, or else turn
himself into a plausible beggar. This aspect be-
comes tragic when one understands that the future
holds no greater promise for a very large proportion
of our youth.
Moreover, the very circumstances of being con-
demned to a vagrant life, and consequently ostracised
from all decent social contact, has a deadening effect
upon men of finer sensibilities, of whom there are
now large numbers on the road. And the spectacle
of mere boys journeying aimlessly about the State,
and existing in circumstances of utter degradation—
condemned to beg—is a matter too tragic even for
tears. Theirs is not the fault if they graduate into
a condition of skilled hoboism. In normal life the
very circumstance of being out of work would have
been shameful to them. Now they think nothing
of it at all. If they have any hope it is that some-
day some clever politician will arise who will press
the'right button and switch things back to “normal.”
Meanwhile they gird themselves with a protective
armor of sullen contempt for all and sundry. They
are forced to “jump the rattler” because they are
weary to death of the road, and they gradually
come to look upon being “run in” as offering an
easier life than battling on their rations. Even
their ordinary contact with the police, on ration
days, is one that leaves a trail of bitterness behind.
How long could seasoned adults stand up against
the devastating effects of such a life ? And how
hardly must it press on mere youths!
It is the inescapable and immediate duty of the
Government to formulate some definite scheme of re-
employment as a substitute for this system. The
time has passed when the onus was on the individual
to find work; there is, in truth, not enough offering
to absorb one-tenth of the men looking for it. It
is realised, of course, that any effort which could
be made to absorb a large body of the unemployed
would have to be courageously conceived—which Is
an attitude largely alien to the principles of party
government. But a delay may be dangerous. And
the fact that we will not win back to sudden pros-
perity by merely “turning a corner” is one that
should be faced honestly and squarely. The good
old days have definitely gone. That is a situation
which should be explained without equivocation to
the people as soon as possible.
Nineteen-thirty was a bad year for the Australian
worker, 1931 a worse one; and the worker is. going
to suffer martyrdom in 1932 unless the Government
courageously stands up to facts and abandons its
policy of waiting for our ship to come in. e
have got to swim out to meet it- H the
Government is courageous enough to face these
preliminary issues, it would be almost an easy task
to place a proposal before the people for recruiting
the entire workless population into a Labor Army-
with a five-year plan of reconstruction as its
offensive. The scheme would, necessarily, have its
critics. But neither the State of Queensland nor
the Commonwealth can be spared a tragedy unless
the masses are thoroughly aroused to a full sense of
realisation of the country’s plight. And even then
we can only win back slowly through the united
efforts of disciplined bodies of workers.
4
All in the Point of View.
What a difference lies in the point of view
.is seen in some comment on the situation
in India which appeared last week in the
“Labor Daily,” a paper run in Sydney for
the benefit of N.S.W. Premier Lang and his
following. The Indian Government has
recently been forced to enact special legis-
lation to cope with the increase in political
assassination and other acts of violence
instigated by the so-called Indian Congress.
This, founded years ago by a disgruntled
Englishman, has gradually developed into
an organisation aiming at the complete
•overthrow of British rule in India.
The two outstanding items of legislation
with which the Lang journal falls foul are
those empowering the arrest of anyone on
suspicion and the commandeering for Gov -
ernment purposes of any public utility.
The journal has overlooked the fact -that
the Rimmon in whose house it bows—the
Lang Government, to wit'—has made both
these “repressive and unconstitutional
methods” part of its recent policy. A few
days before the Federal elections a number
of reputable citizens engaged, or believed
to be engaged, in political bill-posting were
summarily arrested by special squads of
police, and held to exorbitant bail before
they were released. The offence they v 7 ere
charged with is a very minor misdemeanor,
and one invariably proceeded upon in the
past by summons.
As to the matter of arbitrarily comman-
deering public utilities, it is only necessary
to refer to the recent monopolisation of
N.S.W. commercial transport as exemplified
in the Act of Parliament abolishing the
motor-’bus services which were such an
appreciated public utility. This step not
only caused great inconvenience to many
thousands of the citizens of N. S. Wales but
threw thousands of workers out of employ-
ment.
Truly the crimes of Clapham can be
chaste in Martaban.
♦
Australian Costs.
The new year opens with one piece of bad
news—Angliss’s five works for preparing
meat for export, two each in Queensland
and N. S. Wales and one in Victoria, are
to close down at once. It is bad enough
that this will throw 2000 more direct
employees out of work; even worse is the
effect the stoppage of export will have upon
the balance of trade.
It is another illustration of what high
costs are doing to Australia. In London
mutton prices now range between 2§d. and
2|d. per pound; in Melbourne, between
2Jd. and 3fd. Elsewhere, if wages have
fallen, at least the' wage-earner gets the
benefit of low prices. In Australia, in return
for our high prices, an increasing number of
our people get only unemployment.
—-—
Cancellation of Contracts.
Brenda Mocatta discusses another of Lang’s
amazing laws: —
The final section of the Moratorium (Amendment)
Act No. 43 of 1931 gave a purchaser unconditional
right to cancel any contract for the sale of land,
the right extending to the end of the year. There
is no appeal to a Court for an inquiry into
the circumstances; there is no consideration of
the state of repair of the property when notice of
cancellation is given, nor is there any right to
recover arrears of interest.
A Government has a recognised right to introduce
a moratorium to postpone the payment of principal
due under mortgages and contracts for sale during
a time of national emergency, in order to give the
public a better opportunity to repay them. But a
moratorium has nothing to do with the cancellation
of contracts. It has nothing to do with clearing
the legal way for wealthy men to escape obligations
which, on account of the drop in the value of
realty, thev may regret having entered into. It
has nothing to do with enabling them to throw
the main burden of the drop back upon a vendor,
who may himself have paid a high price for the
property. . , .
Here the amateur lawyer is sure to remaik that
if the vendor has already been paid a deposit and
has received back his property, he must be lucky.
He has the property plus the deposit. But the
deposit inay be an inadequate recompense for the
loss of rents and profits, the mismanagement of the
property, etc. The vendor may have committed
himself to other liabilities and be unable to resume
the management of the property with which he has
parted, or to find means to again finance it. Take
the case, for instance, of a country holding which
has to be restocked and put into order, and where
the experienced manager may no longer be available
and credit for fresh expenses is not easily obtained.
There is no excuse for legislation which, for the
first time in the history of British law, has given
a person who can afford to pay his debts a right
not to pay them. We know the world has changed,
more especially in N. S. Wales and in Russia.
But, while Russia repudiated contracts, it has never
given that privilege to the individual capitalist.
And, anyhow, it is not the point whether or not the
world has changed—the point is whether the change
is any improvement.


1
3SP
vs
7
MORNING TEA, LIGHT LUNCHEON.
AFTERNOON TEA and
THEATRE SUPPERS.
The Winter Garden
"The Australia” Winter Garden has been
newly decorated in the modern manner—
the menu has been improved both as regards
choice and tariff, our patrons receiving the
benefit of our considerably reduced costs.
Special attention is drawn to the Light
Luncheon at two shillings.
Write for Revised Tariff Card.
Telegraphic Address:
"Austraotel, Sydney"
The
•ft
SYDNEY
Diamond Engagement Rings
'
*3O
*25 •:
The diamonds used iri the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, with pure
platinum settings, these rings are .still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE:
I I 6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
296 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Complete returns for the House of Reps,
give the U.A.P. 39 members, the Country
Party 16; Scullin’s Labor group 14 and
Lang-Bea,sley’s 4; the other two are Inde-
pendents with U.A.P. leanings. In the
Senate there will be 21 U.A.P. men, four
Cockies, eight Federal Laborites, two Lang
Laborites and Colebatch, who takes the
stand that he is a representative of West-
ralia and not of any party. So Lyons will
have a majority in each House if he can
keep his mixed croAvd together, but that’s
not going to be easy.
N. S. Wales has sent to the House of
Reps, thirteen Uniteds, eight Cockies, three
Laborites and four Lang-planners. Victoria's
twenty are made up of twelve Uniteds, four
Cockies and four Laborites. Queensland
will have five Laborites, two Cockies, two
Uniteds and an Independent (Groom) ; it
hasn’t had so many Labor men in the Reps,
since the conscription split. Six of the
•jSoutli Australians are U.A.P. and the
seventh Labor ; Westralia will be 'represented
by two Cockies, a Laborite, a United and an
Independent (William Watson, in for Fre-
mantle again after an absence of three
years) ; the five Tasmanians are all U.A.P.
Speck Labor will be without a man in
either House. Still it had the same experi-
ence after the 1919 election, and also after
that of 1925, when Senator Ggdeu, who was
elected in 1922, parted company with it.
Including honoraries, Scullin had five Vic-
torians, four N. S. Welshmen and a man
from each of the other States in his original
Ministry, though the Sydney A.L.P. pro-
tested bitterly that Moloney was really a
sixth Victorian and Theodore another
Queenslander. In Lyons’s lot there are four
Victorians ( Latham, Gullett, Fenton and
Bruce, who comes in as assistant-Treasurer),
four Cornstalks (Parkhill, Marr, Massy
Greene and Perkins), two South Australians
(Hawker and McLachlan, a capable pair),
a Westralian (Pearce), a Queenslander
(Francis) and a Tasmanian (Lyons him-
self). Lyons and Latham might have given
Lynch a chance instead of Pearce, who has
been in all the boom-borrow-and-burst Gov-
ernments ; and if Stewart had been pre-
ferred to Marr or Parkhill. and Harrison
to Perkins, N. S. Wales—-desperately con-
scious of the need for neAv blood—would have
given three cheers. But Cabinet-makers hate
to establish precedents.
The. Country party stated that the only
condition on which it would join Lyons’s
Cabinet was possession of the Customs port-
folio. That Avas the one blank impossibility
among portfolios : the tariff question is the
one on which there is no room for com-
promise. So the Page group will give the
Government a non-committal support for
six months or so. Its theory is that at the
end of the six months or so the U.A.P. Avill
have had enough of Lyons and will be
HEAVY FATHER: “Now, Earle, you can have
your pick, but you mustn’t -pick either
of the two pretty ones.”
ready for another arrangement with the
Cockies, probably with Bruce as Prime
Minister.
There isn’t much to choose between them
as far as the stories have been told. Page
is the man who wouldn’t go to the party
unless he was allowed to carve the duck • anil
Lyons is the host who didn’t issue the’invi-
tations until he had promised the breast and
the legs to particular pals of his.
Some.of these Country party gentlemen are
rather inclined to suffer from swelled head
Of course the primary producer is important]
and there never was a time when Australia
was so willing to admit it. But he is not
the only important person. lie has been
told countless times that we depend on his
goods, to pay our overseas interest bill, etc.
But it isn’t quite true. What is available
to pay the interest bill is the surplus of
exports over imports; so that the man who
can reduce the imports by manufacturing
on the spot does just as much for the country
as the man who can increase the exports.
Saturday was a public holiday in Syd-
ney, but not for the host concerned in the
County of Cumberland elections. They had
to do their job, at unnecessary cost to can-
didates and councils, because Lang, fear-
TRIED IT ON THE FEDERAL DOG.
II.
“You just leave it to me, your Excellency. Tried.
I’ll try it on the Federal dog, and you
just see it turn into a lion.”
ing the effect of a municipal defeat in the
suburbs on the chances of his Federal can-
didates, wouldn’t allow people in the County
of Cumberland to poll on the same day as
people in the country. Postponement did
not save the Langsters from another
almighty licking. They ran 379 candidates
(there are 60 municipalities and six shires,
with 678 seats) and 315 were defeated, in
most cases by huge majorities. Only on
10 councils will the Lang-planners be repre-
sented, and on five of these (including
Auburn, where the alleged author of the
“plan” was for 11 years alderman and for
two years mayor) they will be in a minority.
Even Labor strongholds like Waterloo, Lid-
combe, Granville, Alexandria, Botany and
Canterbury turned the Langsters down flat.
Lang has taken ex-Speaker Simon Hickey
off the Milk Board to make room for one
of the Trades Hall Martins —the one that
stood for the Parkes by-election. He has
placed T. Watson, another defeated Lang-
planner. on the Western Lands Board, Avith
Paddy McGirr (brother of Jim McGirr, the
Minister) as chairman. Simon and Paddy
are M’s.L.C., and no doubt the sidetrack-
ing of Simon and the elevation of Paddy
will be presented to Governor Game as an
unanswerable case for the appointment of
another 25.
In the redistribution of Queensland
Assembly electorates some good old names
go into the discard; Flinders, Burke,
Leichhardt, Mitchell and Lockyer have
been absorbed into other divisions. With
distressing poverty of imagination it is
proposed to call a new electorate Auburn.
Australia already possesses an Auburn
electorate and Lang is its representative.
One Auburn is enough.
For the five months to the end of Nov-
ember. N. 8. Wales managed to spend or to
owe £8,077,369 more than its revenue, which
was more than the deficit of the other five
States and the Commonwealth combined.
But even that doesn’t equal the shortage
in the number of votes for the Lang-plan
candidates at the Federal election.
An insurrectionary movement, calling
itself Red Shirt in imitation of Garibaldi, is
reported from the n.-w. frontier of India.
It. is probably, a No-shirt uprising in imita-
tion of Gandhi, the patriot who is nude from
the waist upwards.
After blaming the Opposition for obstruct-
ing bills to take £190,000 from the Country
Roads Board fund for consolidated revenue
and to save £25,000 on contributory pen-
sions, Vic. Premier Hogan has announced
that he will reintroduce the measures when
Parliament resumes on April 6. Macfarlan
gives two reasons why the Hogans did
not go ahead with the bills: (1) the three
independents were unenthusiastic; (2) some
of their own supporters were critical, par-
ticularly regarding the roads-fund proposal.
After all, there’s not much difference
between the methods of the Freetraders and
the Communists. Both lots depend upon
white-anting other parties and organisations.
The Communists, while preserving a small
separate party as a blind, rely for all
practical purposes upon the hold they can
get on other mobs—like the present N.S.W.
Labor Government —which carry out their
programme. The Freetraders scarcely
trouble to maintain an organisation of their
own, but rely for all practical purposes
upon the hold they can get on other mobs —
the Country party, for example. But they
haven’t got the cunning of the Communists.
They wouldn’t make the mistake of openly
demanding a portfolio which they badly
wanted.
Returned soldiers get no satisfaction from
a study of election figures in Queensland.
Among the slaughtered are Glasgow, Thomp-
son, Cooper, Cameron and Morgan—all the
ex-warriors that could be .slaughtered except
Josiah Francis, now one of Lyons’s honorary
Ministers. Still, with Foil (who did not
have to face the music) in the Senate,
Queensland will have two Digger members.
Westralia had none in the last three Par-
liaments and will have none in the next.
Rather curiously, considering its high pro-
portion of enlistments and its overwhelm-
ing votes for conscription, the West has sent
only one ex-soldier (Corboy, 1918-19) to
the House of Reps., and one (Drake-Brock-
man, 1919-25) to the Senate.
The possibility of Japan remaining astride
of the Chinese Eastern Railway is bother-
ing the Red gentlemen 'at Moscow, and it
is a situation in which Communist propa-
ganda can do nothing. The C.E.R. is the
only direct communication Moscow has with
the only Siberian port of any consequence,
Vladivostock. Vladivostock is really one of
the finest harbors in the world, and if it
were properly developed could take more
of the enormous bean trade of North Man-
churia than goes through the Japanese port
of Dairen. Some 50,000 coolies used to be
shipped from Shantung for the summer, when
the ice melted, to do the wharf-lumping, but
under the Bolshevik regime the trade has
dropped to next to nothing, shipping being
under the control of a stupid bureaucracy.
Just before the Japanese made their aggres-
sive move the Soviet had started to change
its policy. Private trading was to be allowed
at Vladivostock and that port was to be
made the entrepot of North Manchuria. This
is one of the reasons why the Japanese
struck so suddenly.
Britain has been living on interest from
its overseas investments, its earnings by
the perspiration of its forehead being more
and more unequal to its scale of expendi-
ture. But of late it has become a case of
pawning its overseas investments or realis-
ing on them at a sacrifice, and an extra-
violent necessity for pawning made John
Bull sit up. In 1914 J.B. exported his own
produce to the value of £525.245,289, which
was £243,459,450 less than was required to
pay for imports, but the income from over-
sea investments more than covered the dif-
ference. In 1930 he exported produce to
the value of £570,552,946, which was
£474,287,248 less than was required to pay
for imports, and the income from overseas
investments didn’t cover the difference. In
1931 disaster approached with seven-league
boots, and J.B. has decided to import a
great deal less. If, because of less imports,
there are more manufactures and more em-
ployment the Old Man will put up with it.
Gandhi says he wants Parliamentary
government for India. There are ten Par-
liaments in the big tangled country already.
For nine of them women have votes; in
five, women are eligible as candidates. There
are 560 semi-independent, princes and chiefs,
and they have been induced to meet in a
Council of Princes to legislate on matters
of common concern. There were at latest
advices nearly 1000 municipalities, in many
of which women have votes, while in some
they may sit as alderfemales. The big
peninsula lias enough mixed hatreds of race
and caste and language and religion to keep
the pot boiling briskly, but the British
person, standing outside them all. is remark-
ably successful as arbiter. Gandhi alleges
that he would do better, being up to his
neck in all the hatreds and all the local
bigotries.
The Commonwealth had an overdraft of
five millions falling due at the London and
Westminster Bank on January 1. It ex-
plained that it couldn’t pay four and three-
quarter millions, but that it would meet
a quarter of a million. The bill was renewed
at a price. Still there was a worse experi-
ence three months previously, when Aus-
tralia paid nothing off the bill and it was
renewed at a higher price.
Central Queenslanders talk of forming a
new political party to push the claims of
their section, saying that these are continu-
ally neglected in favor of southern or
northern interests. It is more than likely
that some of the sitting members of the
Government and Uabor parties will be
opposed at the coming election by all-in C.Q.
candidates. For years the quarrel between
the Country and Nationalist parties in
Queensland kept Labor in office, with disas-
trous results to the country. To seek a
repetition of that situation argues a short
memory.
Queensland hopes to interest private enter-
prise in the making of a harbor for Mackay,
one' of the oldest sugar-growing centres in
Australia, with a vast pastoral and mineral-
bearing hinterland. At present all supplies
and products have to be lightered in and
out of a narrow creek to the coastal steamers
lying at anchor betwen Flat Top Island and
the mainland. The roadstead is shallow, and
it is proposed to enclose the anchorage with
a breakwater inside which ships may load
and unload in ease and safety. The job is
estimated to cost £BOO,OOO.
“Jabez Dollar”: Touching the tendency
of Federations to narrow down the field from
which rulers are selected (B. 16/12/’3l),
it is worth noting that 36 of the 48 United
States of America have never sent a Presi-
dent to the White House. Of the 12 to
which the honor has fallen, Ohio and New
York have supplied six Presidents apiece,
Virginia five, Massachusetts and Tennessee
three each and Illinois two. The other six
represented have had one each.
“Bloggs”: An effect of the elections has
been to ruin my faith in political tipsters
for all time. Take this, which the “Labor
Daily” published on the People’s Day of
Power:—-
Mr. Avchdale Parkhill will get the axe of the
electors in the neck; but Mr. W. M. Marks will
be able successfully to convince the electors of
Wentworth for a further term. Mr. E. J. Harrison
looks like a forlorn hope.
And Parkhill won by over 9000; while
Harrison licked Marks by over 16,000! It
may have been propaganda. The “Labor
“I’m here to convey the congratulations of
my union, Mr. Parkhill.”
“Thanks, thanks. What union did you say?"
“The caricaturists."
Daily” has said that many members of the
working-class “suffer from arrested mental
development” ; and the surest way to get a
moron to do something you want is to make
him believe the mob are doing it. But
the weight of the evidence suggests that
the paper spoke in good faith, as Scullin
certainly did when he forecast “a sweep-
ing victory for Federal Labor,” and thereby
proved himself lower than the very weather-
prophets.


SOCIETY
"And it's
Printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Mako”: Half a dozen young women of
Auckland ’ (M.L.) have decided that this
■ laachtkultur isn’t what it’s cracked up to
be They were camped at Kawau Island, in
the ITauraki Gulf, and on an evening when
the men were all away at a smoke concert the
ladies found themselves at a loose end. It was
a dim, starlight night, and one bright spirit
suggested a swimming race, in the nood, to
a launch owned by a male relative, which
was anchored not far out. The six, all
excellent swimmers, reached the launch and
were about to turn back when there was a
commotion on a boat some distance away
and loud shrieks of “Shark!” Within a few
minutes the sleeping bay was transformed
into a scene of wild activity. The smoke con-
cert broke up and dinghy after dinghy put
out from the shore. As a party neared Ahe
launch, on which six distracted young women
endeavored to make themselves invisible out-
side the door of a locked cabin, it was beset
by a chorus of appeals for clothes or coteiin»
of any kind. Brothers and cousins nobß
tossed sweaters and coats to the girls, and
rowed ashore for more. About midnight si-
subdued young women were again on tne
beach, done with the nude cult tor ever.
* * *
“S.A.C.”: The N.S.W. police brought off
a creditable bit of work in the identification
of the man whose burnt remains were
recently found at Bungendore. Beyond a
few tiny pieces of the skeleton, the only
articles likely to be useful were a Yale key
and a watch. Gabled inquiries identified m.
key by the number it bore as one or a
batch shipped to a Sydney firm by the
makers. The firm found that it had sold
this key and others to the Sydney I.M.G.A.
Search at the Y.M.CA showed that the key
had been issued to one S. J. Morrison, lie
number on the lialf-melted watch gave a
clue which led to the same end; the watcli
had been sold to Morrison by a Bondi jeweller
two years ago. The anatomists who were
asked to reconstruct the body from the tew
bone fragments also scored a hit. J-uey
opined that the dead man was oft. high,
young and well built. Morrison was bit.
and half an inch, weighed 12st., and was
only 21. , *
* * * *
“Rector”: For a long time my favorite
column in the Sydney “Herald” has been
that in which disinterested and opulent
persons broadcast the alleged fact that tne>
are willing to lend -money to anyone on any
security at a moment’s notice. Lately, since
the price of gold has gone to a high pre-
minm X have been diverted to the literary
efforts of another set of philanthropists,
those who desire, above all else, to buy gold,
minted, manufactured, or fresh from mother
earth, and undertake, with the sole idea ot
benefiting* the holder of the metal, to give
-a better price for it than anyone else,
“secrecy, if desired,” also being guaranteed.
The highest price offered for 22ct. gold in
half a column of advertisements is fo 325.
per ounce. Gold of that quality is quoted
at £6 mean in the world market, which, with
the benefit of the exchange position, would
come to over £7 for Australian sellers. Some-
one is getting a very pretty rake-off.
* * * *
“Magis”: After reading Yeats Brown’s
famous autobiography, “Bengal Lancer,” I
remain fixed in my conclusion that the
Indian philosophy or practice of yoga is
largely a means whereby any nitwit can pre-
tend to a know-
ledge of reality
without having
to go to the
trouble of dis-
cover ing it,
which links it
up with mod-
ernistic paint-
ing. It is true
that by looking
Intently for an
extended period
at a bright
light or one’s
navel one may
go off into _ a
trance in which
dreams become
the only reality,
but im a g ine
what mankind’s
kn o wledge of
p henomena
would be to-day
if the sages of
the West had
followed this
procedure! A
famous modern
yogi used to sit
daily on the
ballast of a rail-
way line, naked
and so close to
the rails that,
the passage of
the trains
would sweep a
deluge of blue
metal all over
him, often leav-
ing him cut and
bleeding.
Through this
s e 1 f-d iscipline
he was supposed
to have attained
the Ina cces-
sible, whatever
that may mean.
It enabled him
to kiss the sores
of Jepers with-
out physical
consequences.
This yogi sub-
sequently toured Europe and America,
lecturing to ecstatic Western ladies and
leaving several scandals behind him.
Apart from being able to spout the cant
of his cult, which lias been handed down
from time immemorial and to which noth-
ing has been added for centuries, he
remained a complete idiot on such matters
as psychology. If at 21 Beethoven had
decided that instead of writing better and
better music he could discover reality
quicker by wriggling his stomach in a par-
ticular fashion he would have done what
the yogis do. This possibly explains why
India has produced no Beethovens.
% * * *
“M. Werfer” : W. S. Gilbert has told of
a man who wandered the world over to
find out who wrote the mottoes that are found
inside the crackers. Similarly, I have often
pondered on the people who write the cap-
tions under the photographs published in the
Australian daily press. One of these showed
the other day a couple of Japanese squat-
ting in a trench beside what looked like a
three-foot length of stovepipe. The letter-
press explainedl that this was an anti-
aircraft gun in Manchuria waiting to come
into action against enemy ’planes. Every
Digger of my acquaintance recognised it as
a Stokes mortar, a little contraption which
will toss a bomb from one trench to an-
other provided the range is under 100 yards
or* so.
“Cosmos”: An occupational comparison
between the new House of Reps, and the
recently-elected House of Commons is sug-
gestive. T li e
Commons, with
roughly eight
times as many
members as the
Reps., has 15
farme r-land -
owners ( Reps.
20.), 15 journal-
ists (Reps. 3)
and 14 doctors
(Reps. 2) —■
which means
that the call-
ings mentioned
are pretty fairly
represented in
both Parlia-
ments. But our
lower House
has no brewers
(H. of C. 5).
no retired civil
servants (H. of
C. 5), no teach-
ers (H. of C.
11) and no
bankers (H. of
C. 47). The
huge class that
lives on incomes
from investment
has IGS repre-
sentatives in the
Commons, and
only 3 in our
lower House.
Business inter-
ests have 111 to
speak for them
in the Com-
mons ; 5 in the
Reps. We have
one Service
M.P., Britain
has 43 ; we have
5 lawyer-mem-
ber s, Britain
136. Whenever,
in the Com-
mons, the legal
p rof e ssion is
criticised, or an
attack is made
on the Navy or
Army, or there
is an attempt to
put a stroke
across the ren-
tier class or the
banks, plenty of
experts are
avail able to
state the case
for the defence. This has never been the
case in the Federal Parliament, and it is to
blame for many of our worst laws. Gur
lower House could get along quite well
without a billiard-marker, but it is urgently
in need of one or two bankers, and it needs,
above all, a solid block of small investors.
:i= * *
“Bumpkin”: The Hygeia’s hoodoo, men-
tioned in a recent Bulletin, didn’t sign oft
when that old sea nark was sent to the
knacker’s yard. A Melbourne citizen bought
her as she stood, had her stripped of every-
thing of possible value, and was having her
towed outside the Heads to be sunk when
a gale drove her ashore at Rosebud. Ihe
chances of getting her off seem remote; the
owner’s trouble is that he is under a ±lOOO
bond to the Ports and Harbors authorities
to sink her outside the bay.
“St. Mungo” : The recent Communist riots
in Glasgow were mostly in the north-eas
section about Garngad-road and St. RoJiox,
wliich is a poor section to
loot. It is a region where
one- or two-room homes
are numerous, and they are
piled four deep, access
being by a common stair.
There is naturally a con
siderable mixing of the
sexes, and things are done
in the dining-room, which
is also the kitchen and bed-
room, that are not done m
the best society. When a
gentleman comes home tight
and beats his wife the fact
is apt to be a matter of
common knowledge. Glas-
gow has more people than
Melbourne, and they are
planted on 29,511 acres,
whereas Melbourne spreads
over 165,666 acres. When
it. is added that the city swarms with
shipbuilding yards, iron and steel
works and factories of all sorts (many
of them not working), the inhabitants
are naturally crowded together. hue
Britain believed in Freetrade of the
old Liberal pattern Glasgow was a
stronghold of the Cobdenite faitn.
People said that it led to happiness,
being happy enough in the tenement
house because they knew no better.
Then the old city developed Labor-
Freetrade politics, and later the east
end, where the one-room home is most
prevalent, contracted the Red Flag
disease badly. It. is in this localitv
that an insurrection broke out as a
protest against the political situation.
Poor little shops were looted and the
contents struck the police in the eye,
while food scraps and cats and sun-
dries were aimed at the force from
upper windows. Still the ancestral
slum doesn’t prove that the ancestor
was worse than the average. The city
of not so very long ago had to provide
largely for its own defence, it being
impossible to ring up the Government
at Edinburgh or Paris or Moscow or
Jerusalem by telephone or telegraph
or wireless when an enemy was sus-
pected. The population was the garri-
son, defending the place with short-range
weapons. It was a matter of life or death
that there should be enough able-bodied people
packed inside to man the wall and that
there shouldn’t be too much wall, through
careless packing, for the community to de-
fend. A botanical garden might be fatal
through faking up space which was wanted
f or slums full of possible soldiers.
“Pawang”: Intent on “a good ad., a
Melbourne moving-picture theatre manage-
ment proposed to present to patrons 4000 -oz.
BETTER THAN A COMPLETE LOAF.
FIRST TRAGEDIAN : “I really can’t imagine you accepting such a small
part.”
SSECOND DITTO: “My dear boy, to a starving man a small role is better
than no bread.”
bottles of cocktails at a New Year’s Eve
show. It got more “ad.” than it bargained
for when the church organisations came down
on it like a ton of bricks and the licensing
police announced that they were keep-
ing a close watch on the proceedings.
Legal opinion inclined to the view that
the gift would constitute a breach of the
law, the mere fact of a bottle changing
hands, money having been paid for admis-
sion, being prima facie evidence of sale. So
coupons were handed out instead of bottles.
The Melbourne incident recalls a short-lived
attempt to get round the licensing laws
which was made in Perth. A club was formed
ostensibly for the discussion of the political
problems of democracy on Sunday mornings.
On entering the front door an attendant
handed the prospective member a guinea.
The guinea was then passed back to the
secretary, who wrote the member’s name on
a blackboard in chalk. The enterprise might
have flourished for quite a long time had
WHAT’S IN THE ROAD?
“By Jove, you look good to kiss.”
“Well, 1 hope I don’t look good for nothing.”
not churchgoers met so many students of
democracy clawing their way home for their
Sunday dinner along the fences of Hay-
street.
WHEN THEY OPEN THE BRIDGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Plans for the opening of the Harbor Bridge on
March 19 are almost completed.”
When they open the Bridge I should like to
be there,
For there’s few in high places, ’tis clear,
but will bear
A part in the highly imposing affair,
When they open the Bridge.
When they open the Bridge there’ll be
hearty acclaim.
For once in a way, both for Lang and for
Game
And their two points of view be precisely
the same,
When they open the Bridge.
When they open the Bridge Dr. Bradfield
will beam
On Ennis, and neither re-open the theme
Of which did the most in designing the
scheme,
When they open the Bridge.
When they open the Bridge for the nonce
will be viewed
A truce unto faction, a* respite from feud.
And never a note that may jar will intrude,
When they open the Bridge.
When they open the Bridge, in our history’s
book
There’ll be pages turned back and again we
shall look
On scenes from the past and on figures like
Cook,
When they open the Bridge.
When they open the Bridge, in a serried
array
The school-kids will traverse the ten-million
way,
With abos. to mark it a red-letter day,
When they open the Bridge.
SOCIAL NEWS FROM MUNTA.
PARSON (arranging for wedding) : “Shall I call the banns, Mr.
Tredisseck?"
MR. TREDISSECK : “No, thank ’ee; bein’ second time, no ban’s, no tin-
kettlin’, no nawthin’, if ’ee don’t mind, Passon. Just quiet little
weddin’.”
When they open the Bridge, with dexterity
rare
The birdmen will circle aloft m the air,
While below o’er the Harbor the speed-boats
will tear,
When they open the Bridge.
And a scat in the front, let us trust they’ll
contrive
For the craftsman who managed the very
first dive
Therefrom and emerged from the process
alive, •
When they open the Bridge.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“F.S.”: The statement of “Cosmos” (B.
16/12/’3l) that he has met intelligent
Frenchmen who had not heard of Melba
recalls the Toorak matron, newly arrived to
fortune and engaged in struggling upwards
socially, who sailed up to the diva at an
afternoon tea-fight and shouted gushingly,
“Howjado ! You sing, don’t you?” And it is
not only public performers whose fame is
limited. Another Toorak hostess invited a
number of artists to inspect the masterpieces
her husband had collected during a trip to
Europe. They had surveyed some paintings
with more or less awe, and were walking
WHEN SILENCE IS GOLDEN.
PRISONER: “Suppose I tell me own story—-do yer think the old
bloke’d believe it?”
LAWYER: “Yes, that’s the trouble; I’m afraid it would carry
conviction.
past an amorphous-looking bust in marble,
when she stopped them and pointed at the
object. “By Einstein!” she said.
* * * *
“M.M.”: One of the recently defeated
M’s.II.R. was the hero of an incident which
happened when Canberra was dry—on paper,
anyhow. One day he received a message
from the postmaster asking him to call or
send for his parcel of books, as they were
leaking.
* * *
“Chevroford”: What was described as a
highly original camping scheme was in-
augurated by the Y.W.C.A. for its Christ-
mas holiday at Seaford (Vic.). The camp
was run on “self-government” lines, so that
the girls could put into practice the “many
theories they have formed for a healthy,
happy life.” Rules for eating, sleeping,
rising, camp inspection and recreation, were
drawn up by the damsels, who dressed in
shorts and a shirt. Health charts for
exercise, rest, sleep and the stowing of
grub were kept, and each day’s routine in-
cluded special “health exercises,” as well as
all the more strenuous sports that were
once regarded as suitable only for males.
Most evenings were given over to reading
and the discussion of books, and the Spartan
young ladies were to walk the greater part
of one night and sleep under the stars.
The average army conscript who had to sub-
mit to this regimen would probably mutiny.
* * * *
_ “Cosmos” : “There’s something in the sea-
side air.” and there’s something else in the
Darlinghurst air, viz., bloodthirstiness. I
have never lived, in a place where people took
offence so readily. Inside a recent week
I witnessed :
(1) Row outside pub; small man knocked senseless
with bottle. . (2) Row about Pom. which man had
kicked or tripped over; boot was being put into
offender when cry of “Police” was raised and
attackers fled. (3) Row on steps of boarding-house
culminating in the appearance of youth with sheath
knife who rushed at a disputant. Disputant drew
revolver, thus creating stalemate.
Here’s my explanation. Darlinghurst is the
only Bohemian quarter of a city which is
midway between the most important business
and residential centres. More than half its
frequenters are accordingly the analogues of
those who in London inhabit Mayfair, and
in . Paris the neighborhood of the Arc de
Triomphe. Several Judges, for example (in-
cluding the State Chief Justice), and some
of N.S.W.’s richest Jews live within a few
minutes' walk of the scene of last week’s
fatal shooting bout. Now these people won’t
have the ordered calm of their lives dis-
turbed by what the Parisians call rafles —
organised police raids made with the object
of keeping the local criminals’ heads down.
They even jib at the spectacle of policemen
in numbers. It “looks bad.” The result is
that malefactors who favor violence coneen-
trate on the No Man’s Land of King’s
Cross. and environs. Violence begets fear,
and fear violence, and so the vicious circle
grows. A squad of police, functioning
weekly or oftener on Parisian lines, could
pacify Darlinghurst inside two or three
months, but the old gents, who pad about
Macleay-street would be scandalised, so
nothing is done.
* * * *
‘Morsta” : Touching those Papuan slingers
(B._ 30/12/’3l), there was one feature of
their favorite weapon which never appears
to have figured in the slings used by other
peoples, from David to the Balearic marks-
men who served as mercenaries with the
Roman armies, and up to the close of the
Middle Ages with various European troops.
It consisted of a tuft of pandanus fibre
fastened to the released end of the sling.
When the sling was loosed this made a
sharp crack like that of a well-wielded
stockwhip, the idea no doubt being to add
to the enemy’s terrors, much as the ancient
Chinese soldier did by making faces at him.
The stone was always inserted in the sling
with the foot while on the ground, and an
expert could get an incredible number of
shots into a brief space of time if he had
stacked his ammunition with proper care.
* * * *
“Erua”: The Royal Humane Society is
to be asked to consider an award to two
ydUng Maoriland girls named Lyon, whose
father died recent-
ly in Balclutha Hos-
pital after being
gored by a Holstein
bull. The father
was moving the bull
from one paddock to
another, when the
family noticed its
furious bellowing and
realised it was tramp-
ling its owner to
death. The two
girls rushed to the
rescue. Both were
charged by the
animal, but one hit
the bull with a
stick and after that
seized the mad-
dened beast by the
horns and hung on
to them while her
sister dragged the
father beyond the
fence. The girls are
aged 14 and 16. The
bull was shot later
by a neighbor.
* *
“I. O. Uwins”:
The humors, mostly
unconscious, of elec-
tion booths would
fill a large book.
Perhaps the most
am a zing question
ever heard in one
was put at Gera Id-
ton (W.A.) a quar-
ter of a century ago.
The propounder was
a conscientious but
not particularly well
educated scrutineer,
who had been
warned to keep a
sharp look-out for
foreigners who might
have found their
way on to the rolls
without the statu-
tory qualifications. In due course someone
with a more than usually jaw-breaking
name arrived to exercise the franchise,
and the conscientious scrutineer upended
himself and solemnly demanded to be told
if the would-be voter had been naturalised.
At least, that was what he meant to ask,
but there was apparently some confusion
in his mind between the term used to
denote the acquisition of new rights of
citizenship and the one which stands for a
Jewish rite. Anyhow his tongue blundered
on the wrong “ise.” The returning officer
gazed at him in dumb horror. Somebody
nudged Mr. Malaprop in the ribs and whis-
pered into his ear, and lie hurriedly substi-
tuted the proper word. But he never quite
lived down that lapsus linguae.
PROXY WANTED.
Betty (prospecting for coins in Christmas pudding, with third helving ): “Please
Auntie, will you do a little eating for me?”
“Adelaide”: The innocent-party theory in
divorce has been stretched to the limit in
S.A. Supreme Court. A woman petitioning
for freedom from A admitted cheerfully
that, she had lately married B as well—
having heard that it was under a wrong
name that A married her, and supposing
that this nullified it. Finding that her law
was all wrong, she now claimed divorce
from A, on abundant grounds. Judge Par-
sons, learning that B was anxious to marry
her legally, and that A was living with an-
other woman, thought that “the interests of
morality” would be best served by a fresh
deal all round.
* * =s *
“Clerk” : An old theory that has influenced
railway-track construction for years has had
a tremendous knock, following recent experi-
ments in Australia and
overseas. That is the
fetich of rail expan-
sion on hot days.
Hitherto rails have
been restricted to 4f>ft.
in length, the bumping
of carriages over the
frequent breaks, with
the inevitable noise
and wear and tear of
rolling stock and
track, having been tol-
erated in order that
the rails might have
a fraction of space a<
each end for expan-
sion. On the St. Kikh
line (Melb.), however
lengths of rail are now
being welded together
with as much as 200 ft.
between joints, the
theoretical expansion
apparently being ab
sorbed by friction
between rails and
sleepers and between
sleepers and ballast,
with a complete ab-
sence of any sugges-
tion of rail buckling.
How far the engineers
can go in this direction
remains to be seen ; in
Germany they are said
to be securing satis-
factory results on
1000 ft. rail lengths.
* * * *
“Marsh”: The fact that in the recent
raid on the Tully (N.Q.) gambling den
Italians were not among the nationalities
gathered in hardly warrants “Madox’s”
deduction (B. 16/12/’3l) that Luigi and
his compatriots are not addicted to gambling.
Possibly there was a lager-drinking compe-
tition or a macaroni festival the same night.
The Italian is no different from any other
southern European as regard the attractions
fan-tan or troy has for him. All the big
troy-bank games up north are financed and
conducted by Italians, and hundreds of their
countrymen are players. I’ve seen scores of
Italians lose their hard-e .rnod cane-cutting
cheques pay after pay, and hardly ever
whimper. Most of the other importations
are putrid losers.
* * * *
“Pro Rege” : A detective sought to arrest
three pickpockets in Taronga Park Zoo dur-
ing the Christmas holidays. The trio,
having the advantage of numbers, resisted
strenuously and the combat raged along the
floor of ttie Aquarium, the d. s appeals to
the public for assistance going unheeded—
as often happens when the public has little
means of discerning which is the thief-
taker and which the thieves. The Police
Commissioner points out that any able-bodied
citizen who refuses to assist an officer of
the law when called upon renders himself
liable to imprisonment. This is true, but
English law requires that the appeal should
be made “in the King’s name,” and whether
this formality was complied with in the
present instance or whether the words were
inaudible above the din of battle is not
quite clear. Fortunately police reinforce-
ments arrived to effect what voluntary assist-
ance had failed to do.
* ❖ * *
“Bloggs”: The depresh has knocked a
familiar fallacy kite-high. Six years ago,
at the International Birth Control Congress
in New York, the French delegate boasted:
“While practically every other country is
suffering more or less severely from unem-
ployment, France literally has none. In
Britain the population has been increasing
at the rate, of 200,000 a year; in France,
owing to birth control, it only increases at
the rate of 60.000 a year.” In 1930 only
our* of Fnmnn'o on ... .
a serious unnmnlovrnenVlw Was without
No one «-ivo its tourist trance.
and low ° wares’ 1 l>, v^ U1 ’ y t . l l? de f
lar«e nronortimi of ti,,. ',,.,,01!"’ - a
Paris France is exneHenninTfiA t m
of unemnlovmeiif Ft kt, “ worst dose
century I Yf i,,v) 111 ia a
a ngh birth-rate caused *un-
WHAT WIVES HAVE TO SUFFER.
“And you have the audacity to stand up in front of me and
threaten me! You great cowardly brute!”
employment, China and India would suffer
from it, and they notoriously don’t. National
wealth is the real cause. It produces union-
ism, unionism produces a high-wages caste,
and the high-wage men produce a residue of
unemployables. France is birth-controlling
harder than ever, but is suffering from
King Midas’s trouble —it is being choked
with gold. Tourists are spending their money
where it will buy more (in Germany, for
example), and all but the aristocrats of
French labor are losing their jobs. That
is why 1700 waiters, nearly all old, w’ere
reported to he out of work in Paris last
month.
* * * *
“Aileron”: The old fight between, the gun
and the armor is being repeated nowadays
between the aeroplane and the anti-aircraft
defences on terra firma. Under the ordinary
searchlight the raiding ’plane can be spotted,
but ranging is a mighty uncertain business.
A new British invention, throwing a beam
of three-million candle-power in the form
of a pattern 16,000 ft. in the sky, seems
likely to lighten the task of the ground
gunners. The pattern is an extensive grid
of numbered squares, exactly corresponding
to the squared map used by observers and
gunners in. artillery work. With this, the
position of the ’plane can be plotted as
accurately as a ground target, with an
observer noting and telephoning the anti-
aircraft men the numbered square on which
to concentrate.
sfe £
“Mells” : There are so many grumbles at
Federation nowadays by some of the States
that entered into it enthusiastically that it
is queer to reflect there was a time when
plenty of people reckoned that Maoriland
wouldn’t willingly be left outside the part-
nership. That was in the ’eighties and early
nineties, when the idea of a Commonwealth
(though the word hadn’t been fixed on) was
beginning to take shape. Brunton Stephens
was the first poet to grab his harp and write
a stimulating poem about, it, and he con-
fidently included Maoriland among the
colonies that were to merge their old iden-
tities in the new nation. Poets aren’t the
most reliable prophets, of course, but his
view was evidently shared in England. I can
distinctly remember, about 188!), a cartoon
in London “Punch” representing not six but
seven men pulling lustily in a boat labelled
"Australasia.” Eight, of course, would have
been more realistic, but, failing that, the
artist went as near to it as he could.
* * ❖ s*€
“Christie M.”: The hawker who seeks to
bulh housewives into buving his wares when
lie is satisfied that there is no
man about the premises was more
prevalent than ever in city
suburbs this Christmas. When
hundreds of decent men are try-
ing to earn a few shillings at the
peddling game a certain amount
of persistence may be endured,
hut the bully goes far beyond
mere importunities. One sturdy
ruffian badly scared several un-
protected women in our street
with the sort of “salesmanship”
that he evidently regarded as
likely to bring the most profitable
results. His address ran some-
thing like this : “You’ll have your
tea to-night and it’s up to you to
help me get mine ; here [ menac-
ingly], buy a sixpenny cake of
soap; you’ve gotter do that for
me.” Under this sort of pres-
sure, with ugly scowls to rein-
force it, of course many women
do buy something, and there is
little chance of the bullying
hawker being brought to book.
There can’t be many more despic-
able types of humanity than the
sort tlmt trades on women’s fears, as opposed
to their sympathies, to get something into
his pocket.
* * # *
“Chev.”: The local record for motor
offences was put up by a citizen who had to
face the music in South Melbourne. He was
fined _ for driving an unregistered car, for
allowing it to emit an offensive noise, for
having omitted to notify his change of address
to the Chief of Police, for driving the car at
an excessive speed and for twice giving a
wrong address to a constable.
VALETE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Sydney University Senate is to be demo-
cratised.”
File through that noble portal with bow’d
head,
Resplendent ones, whom Demos brands as
“Tories.”
Demos, oblivious of your ancient glories,
In vulgar speech triumphantly has said
The day for multi-color’d robes has fled,
Excepting one (Oh, saddest of all stories!
Well may we cry “O temporal O
mores!)
Saving, of course, the bold, flamboyant red !
No longer, soon, rich purples, blues and
yellows
Will deck the stately academic yokes
Whose solemn splendor sifted sunlight
mellows
In yonder Grand Old Hall! The throttle
chokes;
The spirit quails. There shall be no more
Fellows,
For Demos shouts he’s substituting—
blokes!
N.S.W.
H. WILSHIRE.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Platt
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman); WIIIfA ..
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D.. M.L-C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lS Birehin Lane. Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at OanDerra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all otuer pa s
the world.
Ml Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.— lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
EXPLOSIVES
ALL KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods by rail or steamer at
usual rates of freight.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
iO-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
‘ There is an old army yarn of a girl who
said to a new acquaintance “You were in
the 10th li'ussars? Then you must have
known my brother, who was in the 11th.
There is some similar analogy between
Colonel Cameron, the defeated U.A.B. candi-
date for Brisbane, and the man who beat
him, George Lawson. Cameron served in the
Boer War with the 6tli Q. 1.8.; Lawson
with the sth. Brisbane’s first Labor M.H.K.
for 12 years is secretary of the Queensland
Road Transport Workers’ Union, of which
he was one of the founders. Lawson has
been a Brisbane suburban alderman, and had
a trip to Geneva as an Australian Labor
representative. He ran unsuccessfully for
the Senate in 1928.
At least half a dozen members of the new
Federal Cabinet have a record of war ser-
vice, in which respect it is strikingly dif-
ferent from the last Administration. Bruce,
who was twice wounded on Gallipoli, rose to
a captaincy in the Royal Fusiliers; Marr
was in Mesopotamia with a wireless squad-
ron and returned with the rank of major;
Gullett won a commission in the Australian
Field Artillery in France; Josiah Francis
finished his service as a captain; Hawker
left Cambridge in 1914, obtained a commis-
sion in the Somerset Light Infantry and
was thrice severely wounded; Latham held
the rank of lieut.-commander in the R.A.N.R.
and was on the intelligence staff.
In winning Barton (N.S.W.) U.A.P. can-
didate Albert Lane killed two birds with
one stone; his opponents, Eldridge and Tully,
were both retiring M’s.H.R. Lane demon-
strated his fighting qualities when he won a
.seat for the Nationalists in the five-member
Balmain State electorate under proportional
representation in 1922; he held it until
the reversion to single-member electorates
in 1927. The new member is a Windsor
(N.S.W.) native, 56 years old.
Jack Lawson, who dispossessed Defence
Minister Chifley of his seat, is still in his
early thirties. He graduated B.V.Sc. at Syd-
ney University in 1920 and spent four years
in Maoriland as veterinary supervising officer
in meat-export works. After that he fol-
lowed the pastoral game on the Hunter
River and in the Nyngan district. At the
last State election he opposed Mark David-
son and polled creditably. Lawson entered
the fight in the Macquarie electorate a com-
parative stranger, but his vigorous plat-
form work told.
The two and a half octaves of notes, six-
teen-foot pistons and five crescendo pedals
on the Melb. Town Hall organ don’t give city
organist William McKie sufficient leg exercise,
so he spends his spare time walking. He
has stepped a long way forward since he
first saw the light in Collingwood. Edu-
cated at Melb. Grammar School, he got his
musical grounding from A. E. H. Nickson,
the school organist. The Clarke scholarship
took him to London Royal College of Music
in 1918. In 1921 he went to Worcester
Melbourne City Organist McKIE.
College, Oxford, as organ scholar, for three
years; then to Radley College as assistant
music-master until 1926; then to Clifton
College as organist and director of music
until he took over the Melb. city organist’s
job in 1930. McKie has a determined chin, a
merry eye, a sense of humor and a native
charm that would soothe the most savage
breast if he didn’t know a note of music.
John Arthur Perkins, back for
Eden-Monaro and included in Lyons’s Minis-
try, is a well-meaning man without a spark
of humor. He was born in Cooma 53 years
ago, and after a bit of experience on the land
he opened a stationer’s shop in his native
town and has been one of The Bulletin’s
very businesslike agents there ever since,
lie was twice mayor, on the first occa-
sion being the youngesf man in the Ma State
to hold the post. He sat for Gqulburn in
the Assembly, before he succeeded Austin
Chapman as M.H.R. for Eden-Monaro.
Perkins made himself unpopular with the
press gallery in Canberra by launching an
attack on Brian Penton, of the “S. M.
Herald,” from the floor of the House.
Penton had playfully referred to Perkins as
“a sucking dove.”
F. W. Teesdale, the Westralian legislator
who died last month, represented the few
hundred electors of steamy Roebourne for
14 years in the Assembly. The township
had gone Labor for a time, and Teesdale
recaptured it from Joe Gardiner, a young-
man who proved unequal to the greatness
thrust upon him. Like the cherubic Angelo,
member for the neighboring Gascoyne, Tees-
dale was a sturdy barracker for the scantily-
populated Nor’-West, which has been worse
neglected by Perth than ever Perth and
the south have been by Canberra. But it
was only in debate that he was violent; he
made good friends on both sides of the House.
The finest achievement in the Federal elec-
tions, and, from the point of view of the
safety of Aus-
tralia, next to
Jock Garden’s
defeat the
most gratify-
ing, was young
Jack Clasby’s
win in East
Sydney.
Pitted against
Clasby was
Edward John
Ward, the cal-
-1o w, embit-
ter ed Lang-
planner, who
won the seat
at the by-
election earlier
in the year.
East Sydney
is not in the
habit of
changing its
representatives
as often as
some other
c onstituencies
—it stuck to
Jack West for
a score of
years—but it
CLASBY, who beat Lang-
planner WARD.
was evident from the start that Ward wouldn’t
last long. The victor, a commercial traveller,
saw service at the war, and was one of
the shining lights of the National Speakers’
Association. A strongly built young fellow,
pleasant of manner and studious of habit, he
has the makings of a first-class representa-
tive.
Australian Salvationists lost a pioneer
when Adjutant John Gore was struck off
the earthly strength at 85. Arriving in
Australia in 1880, when the red banner was
still fighting hard against popular prejudice
in England, he met in Adelaide Edward
Saunders, who, like himself, had fallen under
the Booth spell; the two started holding
meetings on a spot in the Botanic Gardens,
which has become traditionally the Army’s,
and soon established a local brigade. Gore
was specially commissioned to carry on the
good work iii Sydney. He and his wife began
it with a Bible, a banner and a tambourine.
W. J. Stagg, one of the new members of
the Western Lands Board, has been asso-
ciated with the R.S.L. ever since the war
finished, first as complaints investigation
officer and later as N.S.W. secretary. He
enlisted as W. J. Stagotich; but, though all
Diggers knew him for a dinkum Australian,
he found the alien-sounding name a handi-
cap in dealing with home-keeping war
enthusiasts with whom, on behalf of the
returned men, he had to have dealings, and
he changed it.
There was an astonishing resemblance
between the careers of C. P. Scott, the
veteran ex-editor-proprietor of the Man-
chester “Guardian,” who died last week, and
Langdon Bonython, the veteran ex-editor-
proprietor of the Adelaide “Advertiser.”
Scott lived to 85; Bonython is 83. Scott
joined his paper as soon as he left Oxford
and was editor at 26. Bonython joined the
“Advertiser” as a lad and was part-pro-
prietor at 30. Each edited his paper for 50
years—Scott just passed that point. Both
had a single taste of Parliament; and at
80 each insisted on sitting at his office table
till midnight or thereabouts to see the next
day’s paper practically a finished job. But
Bonython is more the man of affairs than
Scott could ever be, and the “Guardian”
chief’s fortune will not reach the million
and a half that the other’s wealth might
easily reach.
Australia lias lost a good scientist in Dr.
Fred Stoward, of Adelaide, at 65. A member
of the Hardy wine-making family of S.A.,
he specialised in fermentation and chemical
processes. His knowledge, acquired under
Bertrand at the Pasteur Institute in Paris,
earned him posts in the Royal Park labora-
tory in Melbourne, and as “vegetable patho-
logist” for the Westralian Government.
Captain Bill Forrester, who handed over
in Brisbane at 75 the other day, passed
through the training-ship Worcester with
Togo, who became the Nelson of Japan. For-
rester’s first ship was one of Green’s Black-
wall liners, and his first sight of Australia
was in one of these wool-clippers in the
'seventies. Passing to steam he served on
many seas before joining up with the
A.U.S.N. Co. In 1902 he was appointed
shipping inspector for Brisbane port and
later was portmaster and chairman of the
Marine Board, a post from which he retired
two years ago.
George Fane De Salis, who has died at
Michelago (N.S.W.) at 80, was one of a
noted family of pastoralists who found
time to devote attention to public affairs.
Nearly 50 years ago he represented Quean-
beyan in the Assembly for a term, as his
father, Leopold Fane De Salis (later an
M.L.C. for a quarter of a century), and his
brother William had done before him. He
was a brother-in-law of William Farrer, the
famous wheat-breeder.
Thomas Strachan, one of Queensland’s
oldest identities, has passed out at hi,s home
on the Logan, at 83. He arrived from
Devonshire in the Fiery Star in 1863, along
with several other passengers who were to
rise to prominence in their new home. The
ship caught fire on the return voyage; a
few of her crew and passengers remained in
her and were rescued, but those who left
in the boats were never heard of again.
Strachan began with cotton-growing, left
this for mining at Gympie, and then returned
to the land and settled down to a prosperous
career at Jimboomba.
W. B. Slade, whose name appears among
the New Year honors, is one of the oldest
and most esteemed of Queensland pioneers ;
he has been settled on the Darling Downs
for 67 years. He was born at Yeovil in
Somerset, and educated at Sherbourne School.
His first “colonial experience” was gained on
the Hunter River (N.S.W.) ; from there
he went to the Dawson country in Queens-
land. After a period of station management
on the Downs, he settled, in partnership with
the late H. C. Marshall, on Glengallan, a
station which was to become famous for
the quality of its merino wool and beef short-
horns. When Glengallan was repurchased
by the Government in 1904, Slade bought
his partner’s share in the studs and carried
on at Ellengowan and other properties in
the Warwick district. A fine sportsman, he
has also been a generous giver; he pre-
sented the town of Warwick with Slade
Park, and the Slade School for sons of
pioneers was also founded and endowed by
him.
S. N. Dennis, who beat Attorney-General
Brennan in Batman, belongs to the class
that will win a seat anywhere w r hen the time
is ripe. Dennis
has been in
the North-
cote Council
for 23 years,
and has been
mayor twice;
and he has
been some-
thing or other
in almost
every sporting
club in the
place. A con-
tractor (his
father founded
one of the
early asphalt-
ing businesses
of Melbourne),
he has busied
himself with
all sorts of
local - improve-
ment schemes,
and he has
also been on
the Metropoli-
tan Board of
Wor k s. He
is 54.
The oldest
retired post-
master in
Maoriland has
faded out at
Councillor S. DENNIS, who
beat Attorney-General
BREN A AN.
86. This was C. A. Tipping, under whose
supervision long ago came one Joseph Ward,
then a messenger and later a telegraphist.
Subsequently Mr. Tipping became a brother-
in-law of Joseph’s. He was at Ward’s
funeral at The Bluff, and the other day he
was taken there for burial himself.
Father J. Sullivan, who was Australian
Superior of the Jesuits up till the arrival of
Father Fahy a few months ago, has been
made parish priest at Hawthorn, close to
Melbourne. For four months he was recto
of Xavier College, Kew, following upon tne
death of Father E Frost. The new head
of Xavier is Father F. X. OBii-n,
Sydney. ,
As 1931 was ebbing away Frank Samuel
Meyers, founder and former
tor of the London Stores, one of Melbourne s
big draperies, went out with Bie tide,
the synagogue service in St. Ivilda-road
members of the staff formed a procession at
St Kilda cemetery gates to the graves .
J. A. J. Hunter, Country party M.H.K. tor
Maranoa (Q.), .sprang into the public ey
the other day
by the vehe-
mence of his
attack on
Lyons. It was
all the more
startling be-
cause he isn’t
that sort of
man —he is one
of the quiet,
studious mem-
bers of the
party, who
seemed marked
out for a
portfolio h a d
there been a
coalition. In
private life he
is an account-
ant and audit-
or, though in
view of the
size and re-
moteness of
his electorate
and its dis-
tance from
Canberra he
doesn’t get
much chance
to practise
anything but
politics. His
brother is that
N.Q. Presby-
terian parson
whose care for
the u n e m-
ployed on the
track lately
HUNTER, M.H.R. for
Maranoa.
moved The
Bulletin’s contributor “Gad” to nis near-
est approach to a panegyric.
George Mackaness, English lecturer at
Sydney Teachers’ College, topped an active
year by scoring the degree of Eitt*D. ft9? l
Melbourne University for his bulky -Cue
of Vice-Admiral Bligh,” published last year
by Angus and Robertson. Dr. Mackaness s
anthology of Australian short-stories, which
appeared three years ago, has recently been
published in French. He is working at
present on about half a dozen textbooks
and anthologies.
Edwin Ryan, a former Vic. police
inspector, who passed out at 80 the other
day at Clunes, took part in the hunt for
the Ivellys when he was a young trooper
One son is a superintendent of police, and
another a sergeant, and a daughter is one
of Vic’s small group of policewomen in
Melbourne.
Discussing Billy Hughes’s chances of
becoming High Commissioner, Sydney “Sun
remarks that “since the war Australia has
been represented in London by various amus-
ing gentlemen without much qualification
for the job.” Strictly speaking, there have
been only two post-war H.C.’s, for Fisher’s
term began in 1916. And, whatever may
be said of Ryrie, has the epithet “amusing”
ever been applied to Joe Cook before?
Dr. Mervyn Stewart, who passed out at
Malvern (Vic.) during the holidays, was
one of Melbourne’s noted surgeons. He was
formerly superintendent of Melbourne Hospi-
tal, and more recently demonstrator in
anatomy at the Uni.
The n.-w. coast of Tasmania has lost a
fine old pioneer in John Mayne, of Tara,
Boat Harbor. Ninety-two at the end, he
had taken a part in all local activities since
the development of the district began; he
was known far and wide as the “Grand Old
Man of Table Cape.”
Ray Whiting, who has made dozens of
good black-and-white drawings for The
Bulletin, had a father who left about
£75.000, most of it to his three children on
condition, among other things, that they
didn’t appear on the stage as players. Ray,
besides being an artist, is one of Melbourne's
best amateur actors —and a playwriter to
boot —and, though the Court has absolved
him from some of the extraordinary condi-
tions, it has decided that if he wants the
money he must keep off the stage. Many
a man who makes his living that way would
gladly say good-bye to it for several pounds
less.
H. D. McKay, from the London branen
of the Royal Mint, succeeds W. M. Robbins
as deputy master of Melbourne branch.
Robbins, who began as a junior clerk and
rose to the top, spent 43 years in the Wil-
liam-street establishment.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.”
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of vears
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
IT IS SO EASY
Ju st a stroke of the pen, the mere recording of a signature, is
all that is required for the establishment of a Savings Account
that may eventually mean more to you than any business
arrangement you have ever undertaken.
Of course, a Savings Account may not be commenced without
some money but since a sum so small as 1/- will be accepted
as the first deposit hardly any person, man, woman or child,
need be without this simple, easy and profitable aid to the
accomplishment of financial independence.
Record your signature now and start your shillings to working
ror you. 6
famonwcaltbSaviwM of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
Buy Standardised
Belting
There’s a Pioneer Leather Belt
to suit every type of drive.
you specify Pioneer Leather
Belting you are sure to get depend-
ability, plus extra years of service.
Every Pioneer Leather Belt is made to
a definite standard of thickness from the
best quality belt leather, and carries
our replacement guarantee should
defects in quality of material or work-
manship develop
If you have a belting problem our
experts will advi?e you without obli-
gation.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING.
Manufactured since 1858 by
J. c. LUDOWICI & SON, LIMITED,
117 York Street, Sydney; and
20-26 Queen’s Bridge Street, South Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Producers and Citizens’ Co-op. Assurance.
Industrial
t —Ordinary Department— N Dept.
Aug., Income. Claims. Exes. Losses. Deficit.
£ £ ,c
1923.. 111,164 4,074 75,492 8,251 7,599
„„„ Funds.*
1924.. 127,788 10,083 73,728 12,886 23,492
1925.. 143,435 9,315 100,958 12,347 44,307
Freehold written up, £34,609 .. .. 78 916
1926.. 155,608 13,922 94,005 6,765 119 832
1927.. 167,993 20,139 101,284 8,144 158,258
1928.. 196,514 22,374 114,111 137 218,150
■ Surplus.
1929.. 200,012 42,909 98,385 512 277,380
1930.. 195,250 33,922 79.966 6,714 365,456
1931.. 167,941 43,469 59,619 2,766 433,075
Written off, £5894 .. .. .. 427,181
*Net funds apart from capital.
The co. is one of the most promising of the
.younger set; formed in 1920, it linked up
with established farmers’ organisations. The
actuary completed his second quinquennial
overhaul of the business as at Aug. 31,
1930, in July last. It was assumed that
the funds would earn 4 p.c. clear. The
result in each department was as follows :
Ordinary. Industrial.
Assurance, Fund .. .. £456,009 £11,371
Liabilities under policies . . 454,803 41,427
£1,206* £30,056f
*Surplus. fDcficiency.'
Thus in the Ordinary branch the co. had
turned the corner. During the period
£3962 had been distributed in bonuses, so
the actual surplus was £5169. In the Indus-
trial department the lay-by for the live
yearg was £30,056 short of requirements.
P>ut only £1939 of it was in respect of the
last 12 months. Thus, on the basis of 1930
premium income, this branch was then
within 6 p.c. of the point where profits
emerge, the actuary says. He further adds
that, in the circumstances, the standard of
valuation was a high one. Over 84 p.c. of
the Ordinary contracts are for wliole-of-life;
a satisfactory feature from a bonus-earning
point of view. But progress will depend
mainly upon further reductions of costs,
upon the course of taxation and upon the
support which policy-holders continue to
give by maintaining their contracts.
For the 12 months to Aug. 31 last new
business written in the Ordinary branch
slipped £369,544:
Ordinary; - 1924. 1930. 1933.
Policies issued .. 3,130 2,054 1 236
Assuring .. . . £1,679,669 £802,793 £433,249
Renewal premiums. 80,673 156,429 134 911
First premiums .. 43,850 22,087 9’029
Interest and l ent . . 3,265 16,733 24’,001
Lapses were obviously heavy—£2B.222 was
swallowed in surrenders as against £16,869
m 1930. Still a tight hold was kept upon
exes. ; leaving taxes (£3439) out of th<>
reckoning, they took 39 p.c. of the net pre-
miums compared with 43.3 p.c. in 1930
and 63 p.c. in 1925. The effect of the
lapses shows up in new business costs,
which were 249 p.c. as against 205 p.c. in the
previous term; that is assuming that the
new business was 10 times more expensive
than old.
The year’s net interest return was 3 7 p.c
on mean funds; so there is no margin for
bonuses from that source, which had been
a handy contribution to the pool in the
past. Altogether, appearances are that the
co. will have to struggle hard to maintain
its position for tlio next few yenrs-
.. FJ}y assurance funds were made to represent
liabilities under policies by adding £30,056
to the establishment account, thus raisin'*
intangibles to £131,981 at Aug. 31. The
tangible position compares as follows :
n , 1925. 1936. 1931
Government securities.. £43,833 £90,289 £lO2 980
Mortgages .. i 8 ,656 53)314
Loans on policies . . 4,905 55 202 70900
Book debts, cash, etc. 84,488 113,383 144’297
Equipment .. .. 5 , 464 16;77l 18 ; 79; 1
Freehold .. .. 2,000 154,636 156,907
Total tangibie assets . . £ 162,346 £483,595 £544 824
Liabilities* .. .. 6,751 5,181 3i314
Net tangibles .. £155,595 £478,414 £541,510
Assurance funds .. 88,207 467,381 559,161
Pfud c f pita l „' ' ' • 108,340 108,495 108,475
Apart from premiums paid in advance.
Thus net tangibles were £17,651 short of
the figure necessary to cover liabilities under
policies; shareholders, however, could be
called upon for a further £153.991, though
uncalled capital is not much of an asset in
times like the present. Incidentally, the
Value of the premises was written up
±34,000-odd about six years ago.
New business put on the books in the
Industrial branch (£581,504) was £290,954
lighter, and premium income (£26.909)
shrank £7345
Income. Claims. Exes. Loss.
1923 •• £4,822 £3 £33,070 £8,251
1924 • • 9,884 104 22,666 12,886
1925 •• 12,300 408 24,239 12,347
1926 •• 16,974 2688 21,051 6,765
192 ? .. 18,759 1695 25,208 8,144
1928 • . 25,248 1329 24,056 137
Surplus.
1929 28,136 1810 25,814 512
1930 • • 34,578 5056 22,808 6,714
3931 •• 27,520 6895 17,859 2,766
Nxos. got off with 64.8 p.c. of the year’s
income compared with 65.9, 91.7 and
95.2 p.c. in the three preceding terms. The
heavier claims were due mainly to sur-
renders.
John McGrath, Ltd. (Sydney)
June, Loss. Dividends. Deficit.
£ £ £
1922.. 2,298 6,439
Loss on sale of land, £543 . . 6,982
Profit.
1923.. 8,591 15 p.c. = 5,228 3,619
Profit on sale of land, £1970 .. 1,649
Premiums on shares, £lB .. .. 1,631
Reserves.
1924.. 23,364 29 p.c. = 13,681 8,052
1925.. 37,316 40 „ ~31,729 13,639
Sundry reserves taken in, £22,350 35,989
Pref.
(10 p.c.)
1926.. 73,590 750 40 p.c. = 40,000 68,829
1927.. 78,801 3750 40 „ „ 40,000 103,880
Reserves capitalised, £25,000.. .. 78,880
1928.. 80,398 4750 40 p.c. = 45,000 109,528
Reserves capitalised, £25,000.. .. 84,528
1929.. 75,028 5000 40 p.c. = 60,000 94,556
1930.. 28,786 5000 15 „ „ 22,500 95,842
1931.. 3,725 5000 10 „ „ 15,000 79,567
The Chevrolet agency, under original fran-
chises, turned out to be a bonanza. Then
General Motors decided to do its own
assembly and wholesale distribution, and
McGraths became an urban agency. The
management had foreseen the possibility and
built up investments outside the business.
Thus, though car trading showed a loss last
year, returns from investments and deposits
enabled the co. to exhibit a profit of £3725.
An all-round 10 p.c. div. was paid, though
reserves had to be tapped for £16,275 to
do it.
Now that the spectacular phase of the
co.’s career has passed—since 1922 share-
holders have averaged 31.1 p.c. on cash-paid
capital, sweetened with two one-in-four bonus
issues—interest centres round the nature of
the investments and the qualify of the other
assets. Here is as much as balance-sheet
figures tell: —
1926. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital . . £115,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Mortgage .. 11,000
Overdraft .. 29,820
Other liabilities 121,556 106,552 49,165 39,937
Freeholds, etc. 25,438 41,987 45,601 45,672
Fittings . . 10,891 12,234 12,813 13,052
Stocks. . . . 102,161 96,383 41,956 13,436
Debtors . . 181,239 115,881 94,600 20,265
Cash . . . . 17,406 1,943 2,238 1,270
Investments, etc. 195,000 157,800 235,808
Last year stocks were worked down £28,520,
and debtors’ balances were reduced by
£74,335, thus enabling £9228 to be snipped
off the debt and £7B*ooB to be added to invest-
ments, deposits, etc. How much of the
£235,808 represents cash is not visible in the
sheet, but the investment part includes a
small holding in the Australian Drop Steel
Forging Co., and, it is understood, a con-
trolling interest in the Paget Manufacturing
Co., which turns out floor and other polishes.
Including investments, capital is well covered
by surplus liquids.
Twelve months ago the co.’s leases were
costing £15,000 p.a. ; they all fall in before
the end of the current term, and other
outgo should be lighter. The West Maitland
branch has been closed and the premises let.
Returns from investments will be affected
by interest-reduction legislation.
The 10s. paid prefs. are covered by £2
15s. lOd. in net tangibles; at par the return
is 7f p.c., allowing for the statutory cut.
For the ords., buyers offer 205.; sellers ask
225. At the middle price the return is
9.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The cover is
30s. 7d. in net tangibles.
J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
, Dividends N
Net Pref. Ord. To Nominal
Profit. 8 p.c. 10 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £>£>£, £,
1924.. 62,277 1,358 37,500 23,419 277,426
1925.. 61,655 9,881 37,500 14,274 291,700
1926.. 62,935 11,981 37,500 13,454 305,154
Unexplained addition to Reserves,
£20,000 325,154
124 p.c.
1927.. 79,684 12,000 46,875 20,809 345,963
1928.. 85,002 12,000 37,500 35,502 38i,465
10 p.c.
1929.. 50,804 12,000 37,500 1,304 373,394
Unexplained reduction in reserves,
£73,589 .. .. .. ... 299,805
Loss 24 p.c.
1930.. 18,504 12,000 9,375 259,926
Debt recoveries and capital profits,
£8172 268,098
1931.. 32,930 Nil Nil 235,168
The business provided a fortune for its
founder, J. C. Williamson, and some rich
returns after lie died in 1907. But since
the public became interested—it put up
£150,000 of 8" p.c. pref. money in 1924,
mainly to pay off the debt on Her Majesty’s
Theatre block, Sydney—the “talkies” have
completely changed the outlook for the entre-
preneur of the legitimate stage. More recently
the public has been compelled to severely
curtail its expenditure on amusements,
which, moreover, have come in for special
attention from the taxgatherer. Thus the
business has become unprofitable, and “The
Firm,” which dominates the stage in Aus-
tralia, Maoriland and S. Africa, finds itself
with more theatres on its hands than it
knows what to do with. Some it has
leased to the picture cos., and others it has
closed down altogether, being unsuitable for
any other purpose without heavy capital
expenditure.
A lack of suitable plays added to the
year's difficulties, and there was a further
slip of £59,889 in gross earnings:—
1927. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Gross earnings. £206,195 £165,352 £61,570 £21,687
Exes 126,511 114,548 80,074 54,617
Net profit .. 79,684 50,804 18,504* 32,930*
*Loss.
Exes., including interest on mortgages and
other borrowings, were got back £25,457.
Still, the loss was £14,426 heavier at £52,930;
that was after taking credit for £14,120 on
account of a security granted over property
in respect of a debt considered bad. Other
debt recoveries and the capital profit on
resumption of one of the co.’s Sydney free-
holds were sent direct to reserves, which
benefited by £8172. raising them to £235,168
at June 30 last. But not much notice need
be taken of these so-called reserves. They
are subject to an unspecified amount of good-
will. and when the board can see clearly
where the business stands assets are to be
revalued.
Here is as much as the published figures
tell:—
1925. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital £525,000 £525,000 £525,000
Liabilities . . . . 270,738 626,418 617,200
Free hold, leasehold,
wardrobe, goodwill,
etc. s 606,654 700,022 670,755
Shares in other cos... 394,325 315,128 278,888
Book debts . . . . 94,681 384,173 420,929
Public securities, cash, etc. 10,529 12,022 6,795
When the books closed there was £182,825
coming to the bank, and £434,374 to sundry
creditors, including mortgagees and debenture-
holders. The lot exceeded cash and book
debts by £189,476. Shares in other cos.
consist largely of scrip in Hoyts, which
took over J.C.W.’s picture-theatres six years
ago. The Fox Film Corp., U.S.A., recently
bought a controlling interest in Hoyts, which
has not paid a div. on its “C” or ordinary
shares since 1927, and doesn’t look like doing
so for a while. The growth of J.C.W.’s
liabilities and book debts since 1925 may
have some connection with Hoyts’ activities.
The market prices the prefs. around 16s!
The ords. are mostly and closely held by
those in the business.
Queensland Forests, Ltd.
Net Sales Selling Share- Divi-
and and Other holders’ dends.f
June, Credits.* Exes. Surplus. (10 p.c.) Deficit.
1928.. 83,017 70,913 12,104 4813 21J.95
1929.. 73,039 59,504 13,535 5962 13,632
1930.. 42,203 40,036 2,167 5*479° 16,944
1931.. 40,446 34,954 5,492 5360 16,818
*After reserving £219,750 and £73,000 in 1928
and 1929 respectively for uncompleted contracts,
trhe prefs. have averaged 10 p.c. p.a.
Thus far earnings have been derived not from
forestry, but from the sale of bonds and the
carrying on of work undertaken on behalf
?r k o^°i nc^^^ ers * co - was Punched m
J 9 2 &E S and R. C. Moulton, Ltd., who
to °k £20,000 for goodwill, became its sliare-
and bond-salesmen and acted in a managerial
capacity besides. Forest lands were bought
cheap m the Johnstone River district (N.Q ),
and the public was asked to put up £9O 000
in respect of each 3000-acre lot (= £3O per
acre) in bonds of £5 each. At that figure,
plus not more than 5 p.c. of the gross pro-
ceeds of all sales, the co. undertakes to
safeguard the growing trees in the virgiu
forests, which consist of a variety of timbers
and to convert and market the products. All
exes, in connection with conversion and
marketing will be a charge against sales.
Whatever net proceeds there may be will
go to bondholders until £lOO in the aggre-
gate for each £5 bond has been paid. There
is no time limit. The land remains the pro-
perty of the co., and so presumably will the
mills etc., which are to be erected out of
the bond-subscribed capital.
During its first year the co. sold £302,766
worth of bonds (face value); the figure
dropped sharply to £145,907 for the second
(to r hpe d qj° S? 5 ™'. thc next six months
f^v C HV )' Ihm and a heavy crop
of forfeitures threw profit estimates askew
Sales were suspended, the 10 p.c. of the face
value of each bond which the co. is entitled
to take and pay divs. out of was not enough
s° the reserve to safeguard contracts was
tapped for £l2oo to pay the prof. div. (10
p.c.) and p.c. to the ords. in 1930. Dur-
ins the 12 months to June 30 last, 47G4 for-
feited bondss were resold at a premium of
i.) each. \et sales, etc. (£21,000, appa-
rently actual receipts) slipped £19,9.53.
Exes. (£04,.)04, including £13,203 on account
ot forestry management as against £29,890
in the previous year) were £5082 lighter.
u’ satl the prof, requirements and
hand the ords. 5 p.c., the reserve for uncom-
?^^ COnt 1 raets was raide<l f or a further
£1.9,440 reducing it to £121,090 at June 30
last. Jhe board claims that the £121,090
is liberal; but there is no certificate from
auditors representing the bondholders con-
cerning the co.’s financial ability to carry
through its contracts.
The co.’s own auditors certify that “all
moneys due in accordance with the terms of
the bond issues have been deposited with
the respective trustee cos.” The amount so
deposited during the year was £38,018, mak-
ing a total of £52,757. Rut only the milling
and marketing trust fund (£20,379), which
conies to the eo. in 1939 or later, is shown
Vrir, x asset -,, The maintenance trust
(£2b,0 (8), payable to the co. from the fifth
to the twentieth year, is deducted from the
reserve for uncompleted contracts.
The board leant upon outsiders for most
of the money paid to the trustees during
the year :
-r, , 1 930. 1931.
Paul capital £73,542 £73,581
Liabilities 12,021 33,360
Land, plant, etc 57,105 62,149
;? ebt ° r f , 151,700 100,850
liust fund deposits .. .. .. 7,070 26 379
Investments and cash . . . . 3,961
Including the maintenance trust, net tan-
gibles (£.180,357) slipped £20,323 during the
twelvemonth—£2l,339 was added to the out-
side debt. Apparently most, of the reduction
of £50,690 in debtors’ balances was on
account of forfeitures. The capital, which
is in 30,000 10 p.c. profs, and 70.000 ords.,
is now held largely by Amalgamated Forests,
another of the Moulton group operating in
i IT 1 ? W , ) Ih ' venture is likely to pan out for
bondholders it is, of course, impossible to
say at the moment. The intention is to set
up mills at Cairns, and an annual output
oi 10,000,000 feet of sawn timber is spoken
of. It is hoped to sell this in Australia.
Maoriland, Europe and America. Every-
thing depends on the ability to open up
new markets at a profit or re-open old ones
now closed. When milling and marketing
are to begin has not yet been announced;
but the state of the finances suggests it is
not likely to begin before trust moneys for
the purpose are released in 1939. The co.
is experimenting with tung-oil and other
possible revenue-producing crops.
Walkerville Co-op. Brewing Co.
T 1 T, „ . To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 21,470 10.8 p.c. = 15,470 6000 33,369
1926.. 21,470 10.8 „ „ 15,470 6000 39,369
Premiums on shares, £10,726 . . 50,095
1927. . 21,472 10.8 p.c. = 15,857 5615 55,710
1928.. 10,018 9.1 „ „ 16,154 49,574
Loss.
1929.. 3,953 2.5 „ „ 5,415 40,206
Sent to depreciation reserve, £37,272 . . 2.934
Deficit.
1930. . 16,498 Nil 13.564
1931.. 18,720 Nil 32,284
This co., which set up in the beer trade in
Adelaide about the beginning of this cen-
tury, remained a proprietary until 1924.
For the next few years it looked like a
steady 10.8 p.c. proposition. Meanwhile, the
public put up £57,120 of fresh capital to
provide extra storage accommodation and
help finance the installation of a new Nathan
brewing plant, which is reported to be
efficiently turning out a satisfactory product.
But little of the business appears to have
been anchored, while the co.’s chief compe-
titor, the S.A. Brewing Co., has been
vigorously financing the purchase of hotel
properties. Thus, with the spread of un-
employment and shrinkage in pay-rolls, there
has been an abrupt contraction of Walker-
ville’s turnover; excise and doubtful debts
have added to the difficulties, and losses
instead of profits have appeared for each
of the last three years.
During the 12 months to July 31 last
trade appears to have improved, despite
adverse conditions. Gross earnings (£26,009)
were £8723 better. But, after paying exes.
(£17,759), setting aside £12,695 for depre-
ciation and £14,275 a.s against £4500 in the
previous term for bad debts, the loss
(£18,720) was £2222 heavier, thus raising
the deficit on shareholders’ account to
£32.284 when the books closed. That is
leaving out of the reckoning the deprecia-
tion reserve (now £96,304, or 32.6 p.c. of
the book value of fixed assets) and £20,600
earmarked to protect the book value of
debtors’ balances, which were thus valued
at less than 9s. in £. Until a couple of
years ago depreciation was deducted from
the book value of the assets ; then £33,531
was transferred to the other side of the
sheet on this account, and a further £37,272
of general reserves was tossed into the pot.
(Continued on page 16.)


HI-SPEED BATTERIES
a
*
“JUNIOR” models crush 7 tons per head per week, requiring J h.p., and are
complete with amalgam table.
“SENIOR” models, crushing 25 tons, requiring 4 h.p. per head, are complete with
amalgam and concentration tables. Both outfits are equipped with pump, water tank
and connections ready for immediate operation.
Balanced running and light weight obviate the necessity of expensive foundations,
bed logs only being required.
A most important feature is their portability
Outputs quoted are for clean, hard quartz, and all figures are definitely guaranteed.
Recent orders received from—
Commonwealth Government
West Australian Government
Queensland (private mines) .... 4
Victoria 2
New South Wales 1
These plants can be supplied and erected by competent mining engineers in any part
of Australia.
Write jor full particulars and technical details to —
HI-SPEED BATTERY 8 MINING PLANT PTY., LTD.,
84 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Telegrams: Ablittise.
Telephone: C 450.
HARDY'S
Sparkling
WINES
ih sir Special
Gold Label Still dirps
C'Jde result of
L 72*
years afcuitie grauurjg
arid n/abuja
( e.y
m, -
■fM.
w.
SPA
OOP
---
::
m
&L - \ -
mum
JflßPirif
l 27 \
as
Lumbago
DON’T LINGER ON IN
PAIN AND SUFFERING!
“Oh! oh! my back—it’s nearly breaking. I can t get
straight again once I stoop down. It seems just as though
an iron hand is gripping me, wrenching the muscles, making
me just sick with pain” ....
How many thousands of men and women, victims of
torturing lumbago, could repeat these words? How many
have come to the brink of breakdown by chronic symptoms
that actually reveal deep-seated kidney trouble?
POISONS IN YOUR BLOOD ARE
CAUSING YOUR SUFFERING
It is vitally important that you should realise the fact that
the pain you suffer is caused by poisons in the blood, for then
you will know that the only rational method of ending your
trouble is to prompt the kidneys to their natural work of
keeping the blood free from pain-giving impurities.
Thousands of one-time sufferers, now restored to health,
will tell you there is no surer, safer, more certain and inex-
pensive remedy for lumbago, chronic backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, bladder trouble and all the sure signs of kidney
trouble, than De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. Where all
other remedies fail, in cases where men and women have been
bed-ridden, or perhaps have suffered—not weeks, but years—
De Witt’s Pills have banished the old pain and restored health.
XVxXnVvOCWN\\\\\ \ \'
llll lllih / '/ //////////AS,
DcWITTS
AND BLADDER
ď
f
THIS REMEDY
BEARS A DEFINITE
GUARANTEE
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills carry a very definite guar-
antee to show results in 24 hours
from the very first dose. The
color of the Urine tells you these
strength-restoring pills are acting
directly on the kidneys. But be
sure you obtain the genuine
remedy. Don’t be misled by any
imitation or substitute —see the
name clearly on the package.
When you have the true De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
cost but 3/6 per box, you may be
assured you have really started on
the road to permanent health and
strength. Ask your chemist how
good they are.
TERRIBLE PAINS IN BACK
RELIEVED.
Mr. W. Monagham, Second
Avenue, Campsie (N.S.W.), says:
“Owing to working in the damp
basement of building, I was
troubled with terrible pains in my
back, and could not stand straight.
A friend recommended De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, and
one bottle was sufficient to relieve
me. I have never had any return
of my trouble since.*'
Mr. W. H. Curtis, 31 Wright
Street, Adelaide, writes: “About
five years ago I was laid up for
sixteen weeks with neuritis and
rheumatism, partially paralysed.
I was recommended De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills, which
I am happy to say pulled me
through. I am 74 years of age
and still able to hold my own
with younger men. I have en-
joyed the best of health ever
since.”


WHAT WILL 1932
BE LIKE?
The January “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly”
discusses this question; and every
investor, great and little, will be
interested in the data, brought
together and the conclusions
reached.
“The Monthly” puts' the work
of a staff of accountants and
investment specialists at your
disposal.
No investor can afford to be
without it.
“THE 'WILD CAT' MONTHLY"
ON SALE SATURDAY.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
Sts***
The non-corrosive qualities of Pioneer Wood Pipe
are of the most vital interest to those responsible
for water-supply undertakings. This excellent con-
duit cannot corrode, and definitely carries a full
bore of water throughout its life. In addition,
Pioneer Wood Pipe is light, yet so strong and durable
that it ensures many years of trouble-free service
at an absolute minimum of upkeep cost. It is
cheaper to buy and instal than metal pipe, and is
unaffected by heat, frost or electrolysis. Full par-
ticulars on request to The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
(near Figtree Bridge) ; and at Footscray, Victoria.
•—Advt.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD. AND REDUCED.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores
Gold and Silver Bullion. Copper Ores. Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
PROSPECTORS, send your gold by post (insured) to any of our offices.
The Company will realise it on your account at current London prices plus
exchange.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety f-usa
Detonators
Cartridges
MAKE YOUR WILL!
The making of a Will and the appointment of a reliable Executor is a
matter demanding the most careful attention of every man and woman
possessing property
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED,
Acts as
TRUSTEES - EXECUTORS - ATTORNEYS - AGENTS
This old-established Company has had over 45 years’ experience in the
management of all classes of Estates. Unlike an individual, it cannot
die, and, moreover, it offers its Capital and Assets of over £1,000,000
as security for the protection of clients' interests
Our explanatory Booklet, sent jree on
request, will interest you. Write now.
J. W. BARNES, Manager. E. V. T. WHITTLE, Ass’t Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The financial position improved, notwith-
standing the year’s loss :
1925. 1927. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £142,800 £162,401 £228,480 £228,480
Sundry creditors 37,974 51,570 61,783 54,185
Freehold, plant,
etc. . . 173,268 209,622 294,481 294,854
Stock.. .. 13,808 22,133 13,226 12,347
Book debts . . 26,597 39,554 35,227 36,999
Investments, cash 8,205 6,494 23,124 23,085
The allowance for depreciation and bad
debts enabled £7598 to be clipped off the
amount coming to sundry creditors and
£1772 to be added to debtors’ balances.
The more or less liquid surplus (£18,246, in-
cluding stocks) was £8452 stronger than
at. the close of accounts in 1930. Contin-
gent liabilities, mainly in respect of guaran-
tees, are £5378 heavier at £62,608.
With the debts problem apparently well
in hand, profits may be in sight; much w T ill
depend upon the extent to which turnover
can be livened. The market prices the
pound shares at. Bs. 4d. as against ss. a
year ago. Excluding the depreciation and
bad debts reserves (together equal to 10s.
2d. per share), the backing is 17s. 2d. in
net tangibles.
Tongkah Harbor
Up to its 25th birthday, on Sept. 30 last,
Tongkah Harbor Tin had recovered 21,618
tons of tin oxide, which realised £2,617,944,
out of which divs. totalling £640,000 (= 85s.
per share) were paid. Owing to depletion of
the ore reserves in the Tongkah Harbor con-
cession, other areas were acquired and
eauipped during the last six years. But for
the last two of them low prices for the metal
have kept most of the machines idle, and
losses instead of profits have showed up, as
the following comparison of operating
results shows :
( Year ended Sept. 30
1929. 1930. 1931.
Net Profit . . £5,078
Loss £6l £6,253
Treated, c.y. . . 4,684,000 3,621,000 2,712,000
Yield, tons.. .. 1,075 871 689
Yield per c.y. lb. . . 0.52 0.538 0.569
Value of output . . £140,385 £81,363 £48,562
Value per c.y. . . 7.1 d. 4.43 d. 4.03 d.
Total cost per c.v... 6.3 d. 4.73 d. 4.49 d.
Av. price tin ore .. £l3O/0/11 £93/7/11 £7O/9/7
During the 12 months to the end of Sep-
tember last only two of the co.’s half-dozen
dredges were at work. No. 7 (Tongkah
Harbor concession) operated continuously,
but No. 8 (Bidor, Perak) shut down for
85 days under the restriction scheme, and
for another 85 due to trouble at the power-
house and delay in changing the top tumbler.
On the basis of a 60 p.c. restriction of output
for three months from Sept. 1, 1931, the co.
completed its quota in 28 days, thus making
the cut 70 p.c. on a time basis. The idle
dredges—Nos. 2 (Bidor), 4 (Tongkah
Harbor), 5 (Bang Neang) and 6 (Chelong
Bay)—are all reported in good condition,
but are not likely to start up again until
termination or modification of the Interna-
tional Tin Control agreement. When the books
closed there was £49,883 coming to sundry
creditors, including the bank (£17,178),
Cash, debtors’ balances and ore on hand
totalled £6359. During the year shareholders
were asked for another shilling (£12,500),
making the 255. shares —there are 250.000
of them—paid to 235. They are offejed at
3s. on the market.
Ratrut Basin Reconstruction
Ratrut was fairly successful with its first
property at Renong, on the west coast of
Siam. When this was worked out the plant
was transferred to a new area at Sichon,
where a second dredge was installed. But
the heavy nature of the ground interfered
with both recoveries and costs, and made
the business unprofitable with tin at less
than £2OO. It was then decided to loosen
the ground with explosives, and a profit of
over £48,000 p.a. was spoken of. To finance
the work holders of the 70,000 20 p.c. £1
debentures were asked to convert into
special first mortgage 10 p.c. debentures of
275. each, of which ss. was to be paid in
cash. Only 43,345 of the old debentures were
converted. The work proved to be more expen-
sive and the results less satisfactory than
was anticipated. Thus, with the till almost
empty again, the co. is faced with liquida-
tion, the result of which it is impossible to
forecast, or reconstruction on a basis which
would provide enough new money to set the
wheels going, and probably enable satisfac-
tory divs. to be paid.
It is proposed to form a new co., Sichon
Tin Dredging, Ltd., to take over the old one,
which has a share capital of £280,000, all of
which is to be treated as lost. The new
co. will have a nominal capital of £87,500
in ss. shares, and a paid capital of £70,000.
Two fully-paids and Bs. cash are to be
handed to the holders of each special deben-
ture, and one fully-paid to the holder of each
other debenture. The capital loss is thus 9s.
and 15s. respectively. Old shareholders will
be asked to take up 146,655 contribs. for
cash. The issue has been underwritten at a
cost of £5OOO, in shares. The remaining
70,000 shares are under option for six
months to original allottees in the new co.,
one for four.
Of the £36,663 of new money which it is
thus proposed to raise, £19,456, including
exchange, will be required for the cash pay-
ment to debenture-holders. At the present
rate of exchange, the remaining £17,207 will
realise £13,656 on remission to Penang.
There is £2BOB in hand there, so £16,464 will
be available for repairs and early operating-
exes. On a 60 p.c. restriction basis the co.’s
quota of ore for six months would be 231
tons, which it is expected to dig in four
months. With tin at £l3O in London net
profit is figured at £5487, or £10,974 p.a.,
equal to 15.6 p.c. on a capital of £70,000.
No allowance has been made for the use of
explosives. The dredge is believed to have
passed the worst of its troubles in connec-
tion with the limestone mountain. At the
moment half the working face is out of the
stiff bouldery ground, and scout shafts sug-
gest that softer digging is ahead. Much
depends upon whether this proves to be cor-
rect.
Now that the Broken Hill Prop, has
decided to exercise its option over W. B.
Wilkinson’s show at Junction Reefs, Man-
durama (N.S.W.), that field will at last get
its chance. The big deposit of auriferous ore
is in several lodes, lying one below the other,
dipping at an angle of about 1 in 5. The
beds are continuous enough, but the gold
content is variable; still, the best parts are
very good, and the show is expected to
prove a first-class low-grade proposition.
Ore sent by Wilkinson to Port Kembla in
1930 went between IJoz. and 3oz. Lately
crushings from the south side have averaged
sdwt., and from the north side 15dwt.,
the latter being sulphide ore. The Prop’s
experts estimate that there is 240,000 tons
developed for stoping. The sulphides are
remarkably free from refractory material.
The gold is very fine.
* * * *
No difficulties were met with in treating
the parcel of ore sent from Mt. Morgan to
Mt. Isa. The Stone assayed 64dwt. of gold
and 0.7 p.c. copper. Recoveries are put at
75 p.c. of the gold and 87 p.c. of the copper.
The concentration rate was 16 to 1. With
gold at 121 s. per ounce and copper £4O per
ton, and leaving exchange and the gold bonus
out of the reckoning, the gross value of a
ton of concentrates was thus £26 13s. 2d.
Allowing 2 p.c. loss in treatment, and taking
the cost of realisation and production at the
co.’s estimate of £l6 4s. 5d., the net profit
per ton of concentrates is £lO 17s. 7d., which
is equivalent to 13s. 6d. per ton of crude ore.
There are 644,000 tons of this quality stone
overlying the Linda level, and the Queensland
Government has agreed to advance the co.
£5OO towards the cost of a pilot plant. At
the moment the board is negotiating with
overseas interests for sale of the whole under-
taking, but no definite offer has yet been
received.
* * Sic *
Mt. Isa is not expected to reach its esti-
mated output of 6000 long tons of bullion
monthly until July of this year according to
a statement made in New York by Lesiie
Urquhart. The present output is little more
than half this figure. The co. will continue
to treat carbonate ore mainly, since the
price of zinc will not allow mixed sulphides
to be mined. An improvement in the price
of copper might tempt the co. to proceed
with its plans to mine the copper oreshoots.
The carbonate ore being smelted is 14 per
cent, higher in lead content than the” drill
assays; usually it is the other way around.
The co.’s lead refinery, situated on an eight-
acre block on the banks of the Thames, near
London, is now in operation. It has a
capacity of 75,000 tons of lead annually, or
about one-third that of the Port Pirie
smelters. The capacity of the Isa refinery
can be doubled at an expenditure of only
£20,000, the cost of extra furnaces and
casting equipment.
:S * * *
Diamonds have been found in Australia
in alluviums, in creeks and in tail races,
but are usually too hard and too small. At
Waratali Bay (Vic.) there are several
pipes containing a blue hard rock like the
“blue ground” of the S. African diamond
mines. There are four miles of serpentine
and greenstone at Waratah Bay, and the
chief associates of diamonds have been found
in reefs. If these pipes contain the
true “blue ground,” then they may also
contain diamonds. At present the proposi-
tion is one of merely scientific interest.
* * *
Pioneer Tin (Tas.) has decided to put up
the shutters. A working loss of £BBl is
recorded for the year to June 30 last. On
one of the co.’s holdings, the Argonaut lease,
sluicing stopped in August, 1930, but some
of the ground has been worked on tribute.
Paid capital is £161,244. Creditors figure
for £285. The mine and plant are in at
£183,657; liquids total £11,434, including
£6909 cash. It is worth noting that the
value of the ground worked for the 12 months
to June 30, 1931, was 3.721 b. per cubic yard.
In Malaya that would mean a fortune with
tin at £lOO or thereabouts ; but under Aus-
tralian conditions the co. cannot make it pay
with the metal at £l5O. ,
❖ $ $ *
“Mulga Mick”: About two years ago an
osmiridium lode was found at Adamsfield
(Tas.). At the time the geologists were
sceptical about it being a true lode; to-day
they are satisfied it’s the only one of its
kind yet discovered. The find has been proved
for a length of 80 chains, the fissure is about
20ft. wide, with two well-defined wrnlls. Two
prospecting shafts have been sunk to a depth
of 75ft., and the lode is still going down in
good values.
* * * *
“Miner”: Maoriland is bucked over the
latest returns of the Golden Progress G. M.
Co., Otago. For the period Nov. 17 to
Dec. 19 the co. got 5220 z. of retorted gold
from 175 tons of ore. Two tons of concen-
trates from the Wilfley table are estimated
to give 38oz. gold, and one ton of 7oz. middl-
ings. The reward for the month’s milling
was 5670 z., the highest from an Otago mine
for many years.
* * * *
Takuapa Valley, a Sydney show with two
properties in Siam, issued £lOO,OOO of 124
p.c. debentures in May, 1929, to finance its
Ban Pru enterprise. These were repayable
by four annual instalments of £25,000 each,
commencing this year. Under existing con-
ditions this is not possible, so the co. is
asking that payment be postponed until May
3. 1936, or such time before that as the
directors may decide upon. The fall in prices
and absence of enough clean water to enable
the Ban Pru dredge to reach a satisfactory
output are the troubles. The average price
of the metal from April, 1929, to date is
£147 per ton; the figure counted upon when
the debentures were issued was £220. The
difference represents a loss of over £84,000
on an average monthly production of 80 tons
for 20 months. Exchange has been another
handicap. It is proposed to pay debenture
interest half-yearly instead of quarterly, and
to open a branch register in Malaya. Thus
it will be necessary for Takuapa, now a no-
liability concern, to register as a limited
liability co., and the approval of debenture-
holders is sought. There is £250,000 of
share capital.
* * * *
The seven Alluvial Tin propositions at
work under the restriction scheme have all
come out ahead of it on the December turn-
over, though in one or two cases the balance
was small. Kramat took pride of place with
a profit of £3675. The other profit-earners
were Rawang (£1195), Malim Nawar (£222 ),
Kuala Kampar (£525), Changkat (£2654),
Kampong Lanjut (£2012) and Rawang Con-
cesions (£1720). The group produced 290
tons of t.o. for the month.
* * * *
“Pt.” : Re Consolidated Platinums, Ltd. (B.
2/12/’3l). This organisation will purchase
under contract the whole output of new
platinum from Russia, South Africa, Canada
and Colombia. At the moment no attempt is
to be made to regulate production and price
—the co. says the present figure of £9 to £lO
per ounce is profitable. It is not correct to
say that Russian platinum has dried up. It
now accounts for over 60 p.c. of the world’s
output; it comes chiefly from deposits
in the Ural mountains at a cost much below
that of other countries, and looks like con-
tinuing to do so. South Africa produced
45,0000 z. of platinum during 1930, mainly
from low-grade deposits in the Rustenburg
district of the Transvaal. Here the metal is
recovered by crushing and gravity concentra-
tion, the slime being treated by flotation.
The concentrate, containing lOoz. metal per
ton, is roasted with salt, leached and the
platinum precipitated with zinc dust. Can-
adian platinum occurs as platinum arsenide
in the famous Sudbury nickel deposits, and
is recovered in London at the refinery of the
International Nickel Co. This refinery has a
capacity of 50,000cz. per annum, and makes
London the centre of marketing. The princi-
pal deposits in Australia are at Fifield
(N.S.W.), where about 20,0000 z. has been
recovered. The metal has been found back o’
Broken Hill, on the west coast of Tas., in
Gippsland, and in Queensland beach sands
between Southport and Currumbin and at
Gympie. The main consumer is the electri-
cal industry. •
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Approximate market value of infu-
sorial or diatomaceous earth of good quality?
(2) Industrial uses? (3) Names of brokers
or firms dealing in same? —7513.
(1) Diatomite is marketed in New South
Wales at from ±3 10s. to £.4 per ton on
trucks country stations. (2) As an abrasive,
chiefly in polishing powders and scouring
soaps, as a Altering medium in certain manu-
facturing industries, and in oil refineries.
It also makes an efficient heat insulating
medium suitable for boiler coverings, stove
linings, etc. (3) Minerals, Ltd., 318 Botany-
road, Alexandria; Austral Rock Milling Co.,
Gladstone-street, Newtown —both Sydney.
The Farmers' and General Assurance Cofp.
(in liquidation) owes me about £4O. Am I
likely to recover any of this? —764B.
There is a debenture for £2OOO over the
co.’s assets ; it is disputed, but if it is de-
clared to be good in law the amount avail-
able for unsecured creditors will be reduced
by that amount. Prospects for a substantial
dividend are not bright ; principal asset is
the uncalled capital, mainly held by wheat-
farmers, etc.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
H.8.M.: Depends on how important
security of principal is. If it is very important,
short-term investments are best. And, in Australia,
three months’ deposits are the leaders among them-
... AV.B.G.: Can’t recommend it. .. .Whale Oil: £64
during the peak years 1916-18. The figure is nov.
around £12.. . .R.G.G.: Speculative ; all depends upon
how ground ahead turns out... .E. 5.8.: The co. has
friends on the Meat Board, but it is doubtful whether
the venture will ever succeed. Co. was registered
in December, 1928 ; nominal capital, £1,500,000 in
£1 shares. At Sept. 30 last paid capital was
£13,034 in 87,412 shares called to 4s. each.
Establishment charges, etc., had run off with
£13,192. There was £671 coming to the bank
and £392 to sundry creditors.


Missing Friends.
TAMES PURCELL, late of Hillston, near
J Narrandera, New South Wales. Will
.Tames Purcell, or anyone knowing his
present whereabouts, or anyone who has seen
him during the last seven years, please com-
municate with JOHN B. BEARD, Solicitor,
Narrandera.
I“EOTHEN”
128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
GARAGE
Inclusive Tariff, £4-4-0
Central 528
Mrs. PARKER
ď
PAYING GUESTS
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: FLORODORA.
CRITERION:
THE HOUSE THAT JACK BUILT
PANTOMIME.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
PANTOMIME.
SINBAD THE SAILOR.
KING’S THEATRE : AS HUSBANDS GO.
TAKE A TRIP TO CEYLON
as
g
M
*». ,
h;.S&
i "Agt
,4
<
V/-
m
r
Cingalese Bullock Waggon
Special Ceylon Excursion
BY ORIENT LINE, the Special Ceylon Holiday Return Excursion need
occupy only a few weeks. It presents the best opportunity for a
sea voyage, undertaken for either pleasure or health, where a longer
holiday is impossible. The pleasure of a trip on an Orient Liner, provided
by huge decks, comfortable cabins, excellent catering, is unsurpassed.
The natural beauty of Ceylon, together with the racial interest of this
lovely Asiatic island, ensures a delightful experience.
c lslew Reduced Fares
FROM SYDNEY
FIRST SALOON
£50 ‘“™
Plus exchange
TOURIST STEAMER
(One Class only)
£32
return
Plus exchange
THIRD CLASS
return
Plus exchange
Tickets are valid from the date of embarkation for 100 days.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM ANY
OFFICE OR AGENCY OF THE
ORIENT LINE
SHADOW SHOWS.
Paramount’s “The Secrets of a Secre-
tary,” at Sydney Regent, is a better talkie
than its catchpenny title might imp y.
Claudette Colbert, when first seen, is a rich
maker of whoopee who has taken up with
George Metaxa, a gigolo. She marries him
in the small hours of the morning after a
bin°e, and is dropped with a thud wheu
her money goes. She becomes social secre-
tary to a millionairess; he takes to jewel-
thieving in the service of a bootlegging
restaurant proprietor. Herbert Marshall, as
Lord Darn worth (also, paradoxically, tlm
Earl of Tarnwell), gets engaged to the mil-
lionairess’s daughter, who is, as she puts
it crazy about the jewel-thief. The secre-
tary, who has become a changed character
under the spell of poverty, is in love with
the nobleman, and he reciprocates her vir-
tuous passion. Their happiness is encom-
passed by some rare exhibitions of imbecility .
The prospective bride visits the crook, and
is in his. room when he reels in dying, hav-
ing been put on the spot for treachery by
the bootlegger. The secretary follows, and tor
no valid reason changes frocks with the
other girl, and is accused of the murder.
Then Darnworth-Tarnwell and others ot
importance blow in ; the police see the light;
the real assassin suicides, and happiness
reigns. Metaxa’s acting is a feature of the
production. He is the real thing, whether
lie is undulating complacently about a
fashionable ballroom, bullying women, or
cringing before his formidable employer;
and he dies as men do die from gunshot
wounds in the chest. Claudette Colbert
is her usual wide-eyed, toothy, emotional
self, and Herbert Marshall is convincing as
a young Englishman of the solid, worthy
type.
George O’Brien is the hero of Fox’s “Riders
of the Purple Sage,” a Zane Grey, and the
Regent’s other item. He gallops into Arizona
from Texas to find that a beautiful girl is
again being robbed by cattle-rustlers, whose
leader, on this occasion, is a Judge. The
entrance to the robbers’ lair is concealed
by a waterfall, but O’Brien se.es through it
and immediately starts tearing about the
countryside on and under horses, while the
rustlers’ victim, Marguerite Churchill, suffers
various indignities. In the course of his
efforts to right the wrong, O’Brien gets
shot, shoots several .subsidiary villains, one
of the heroines and the Judge (twice), and
then parks guns and hat and gathers Miss
Churchill into his arms. There are plenty
of thrills —a leap on horseback across a
chasm, a stampede of cattle, and a land-
slide ; the landslide, which is started by
the hero, sends half a mountainside roaring
on to his enemies’ heads. This device has
. the advantage of leaving the audience satis-
fied that the undesirables are really dis-
posed of. Revolvers seem to be a lot less
lethal in Arizona than they are in Darling-
hurst.
¥ * *
The Bridge Theatre, Sydney, which is the
old New York picture house renamed and
done up, opened on New Year’s Day as a
charity show with the talkie version of “Hun-
garian Rhapsody” (Ufa). The film begins
impressively with an extensive view of a
field, in which peasants are harvesting wheat
with scythes while behind them women are
binding the sheaves. Watching them is the
gay and aristocratic Lieutenant Turoczy
(Willy Fritscli), who is smitten with the
charms of Marika (Dita Parlo), daughter
of the manager of the estate. Turoczy is
penniless and the military authorities won’t
permit him to marry. He wants the girl
to wait. She refuses, declaring that if he
were a man he would chuck the army and
marry her at once. Tuiroqzy turns to
Camilla (Lil Dagover), wife of a general.
Marika saves the couple from discovery by
the general, and in gratitude the lieutenaiit
rips off his uniform and announces his
intention of marrying Marika and taking
up farming, an occupation for which, of
course, neither capital nor experience is
necessary. Acting good; photography very
good. One of the Liszt “Rhapsodies” sup-
plies musical motifs.
* * *
Sydney Capitol has reverted to its old
policy of running films for as long as the
public will stand them, starting with a
-revamping of E. M. Royle’s 3t>years-old
stage play “The Squaw Man” (M.-G.-M.).
When the Earl of iverhill loses trust money
in speculation, his noble cousin Wynnegate
(Warner Baxter) shoulders the blame and
disappears, because he loves the Countess of
Iverhill (Eleanor Boardman). In Arizona,
Wynnegate saves the Indian maiden Nat-u-
-rieii (Lupe Velez) from the base attentions
of Cash Hawkins (Charles Bickford). Bick-
ford is shot; Bickford’s friends ambush and
shoot Wynnegate, and Nat-u-rich nurses him
to health. Seven years later the Earl is
thrown whilst hunting, and before he dies
confesses ail, leaving the way clear for
Wynnegate to return and claim the title.
The Countess arrives at Wynnegate’s ranch
to bring the glad tidings and finds Nat-u-rich
is Wynnegate's wife. A happy ending is
achieved by making the Indian girl commit
suicide. Cecil B. de Mille, who has picturised
the play before, made a neat job of the
new edition, in which Paul Cavanagh, Roland
Young and Raymond Hatton have minor
parts.
“Shoot, Durn Yuh!”: Melbourne citizens
have become so accustomed to seeing things
happen in public which are inexplicable,
except on the assumption that Efftee Films
is engaged in the production of another
masterpiece, that a real murder will be com-
mitted in Collins-street one of these darys
and the policeman who witnesses the crime
will merely ask the assassin for his auto-
graph. On the opening night of “As Hus-
bands Go,” at Melb. Royal, a young man in
the front stalls sprang to his feet and
shouted at the curtain, “Put the boot in, put
the boot in,” being thereupon pulled back
into his seat by a stout gent, sitting behind
him, while the girl at his side registered
shocked astonishment. But the audience
remained calm and collected. They knew
that it was only “The Sentimental Bloke”
in process of gestation. Those who remem-
ber the incident in which the Bloke and
Doreen go to “Romeo and Juliet’ will
understand the reference.
“Cine Ma”: Raymond Longford, Thring’s
new producer in Melbourne, has had almost
a lifetime of experience in film-making. He
was responsible for the silent version of
“The Term of His Natural Life.” Inci-
dentally, that picture has had a unique
career. England was spared the pain of
being reminded of her earliest associations
with this country, but copies of the film got
to Russia, where they are being used as anti-
capitalist propaganda.
“L. de R.”: The legitimate stage, which
seems to be successfully weathering the
menace of the talkies, has had its existence
threatened times without number. I ew
people would imagine to-day that at one
time the prophets of gloom actually, regarded
the telephone as the last nail in its coffin.
Fifty years ago Melbourne “Herald” in-
formed its readers that the new invention
“would revolutionise the stage.” “The pro-
bability is.” said that far-seeing journal,
“that for the tens who go to the theatres,
hundreds will elect to hear the play in them
own homes. Managers will have to think
a good deal about these patrons.”
“C. Ma”: Efftee Films’ next enterprise
will be “Tick and the Duffers,” which
Betty M. Davies, author of “The Touch
of Silk,” has adapted from the novel of
Kay Glasson Taylor. It is a yarn about
cattle thieves in Queensland, and those of
Thring’s company whose acquaintance with
horseflesh is confined to bakers’ carts will
be obliged to attend riding schools. For the
scenes of aboriginal life, of which there
will be many, a camp near Healesville will
be resorted to. No doubt the local Binghi
will be given a copy of Basedow’s “Aus-
tralian Aborigine” to make himself au fait
with the corroboree, as practised by his fore-
fathers. Thring expects to spend £20,000
on the production. He has made a find in
Billie Kerr, a nine-year-old Albury boy,
whose acting ability, at any rate in re-
hearsal, is uncanny; he beats all stage kids
I have seen hollow. His mother is Olive
Roberts, now retired, but one-time well
known on the legitimate stage.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Florodora”
Criterion “The House that Jack Built” Pantomime
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.'
Royal “Sinbad the Sailor” Pantomime
King's “As Husbands Go”
State Movies and Talkies
After a day at the Showground, where
bagpipes skirled from morn till dewy eve
and cabers were tossed with wild abandon,
Sydney Scots foregathered at the Town llall
on New Year’s night to bathe their souls in
the politer music of their stern, wild land.
It was made evident early in the proceed-
ings, however, that Scotia stands where she
did. Under the leadership of a real Mackay
(Tammas o’ that ilk) a company of pipers
and drummers performed a march, a strath-
spey and a reel. The welkin collapsed half-
way through the march and the pieces were
removed. The Observatory reports that during
the strathspey the orbits of Mars, Venus and
Jupiter were markedly erratic. The reel wasn’t
heard by anybody, temporary stone-deafness
having mercifully supervened. The rein-
forcement of the Town Hall with groins and
grouts of concrete and steel, a work that
proceeded for many weeks before the concert,
alone ensured the safety of the audience.
A very; large silver loving-cup was presented
to Tammas and his band by the gratified
assemblage. There was a further warlike
ebullition when a tenor (Jock Gilding, ye
ken) cam bubbly-joekin’ ontae the stage
under an arrch o’ claymores held aloft by
chiels in kilts, and sang “ Draw the Sword,
Scotland !” This was preluded by a regular
orgy of; dancing, interspersed with terrifying
shrieks; in which children, some of whom
were practically clad in medals, partici-
pated. The only people who care a dump
about the origins of Scottish ballads being
the Sassenachs, the audience received with
a fine impartiality the music of Covenanter
and Jacobite, the whole winding up with a
universal singing of “Auld Lang Syne” with
hands crossed and leaked (a poseetion in
which, mark ye, it is impossible to grab a
weapon).
# * *
“Babes in the Wood” is still occupying
the afternoons at Sydney Grand Opera
House, but the fairy prince, the dame and
the demons have been withdrawn from the
evening sessions in place of a more adult
fare. The new programme, “All Sunshine,”
is a mingling of revue and vaudeville, and
includes all the panto, principals. Dorothy
Dewar is singing as tunefully as ever and
has the assistance of a small girl in a rol-
licking number. Jake. Mack and Bert le
Blanc bandy jests and rattle off ridiculous
ditties, and Ken Hill and Stan Cartnell
help to keep the audience, merry. Sylvia
Post Mason warbles sentimental ballads.
The bill is strong in acrobats and dancers
and there is a comely and industrious ballet.
“Sinbad” is the Williamsonian contribu-
tion to the flow of pantomime in Melbourne.
A glance behind the scenes reveals that the
Royal is eminently adapted for the purposes
of the more or less Arabian Nights’ entertain-
ment. There is a huge space at the ioar, rare
in city theatres, where the Mermaids' Home,
the Port of Balsora, the Whale’s Back, the
Roc’s Nest and the Diamond Valley can be
packed on top of the Slave Market and the
Persian Garden, and the Ship’s Deck can
lie cheek-by-jowl with the Cocoanut Forest,
ready at a moment’s notice to be transported
by sweating stagehands out of the realm
of common things behind into the world of
illusion in front. Charles Wenman, director
of J.C.W., is responsible for the present
rendering, which follows the original story
with less than the usual amount of irrele-
vant interruption, references to current poli-
tics and smoke-room jests aimed at the
front stalls. The result is a kids’ enter-
tainment which the kids deluge with their
approval. Amongst the comedians provided are
Don Nicol, Athol Tier, Field Fisher and Neil
McKay, and there are so many of them
that they have to form a queue w’hen a gag
or a bit of funny business puts in an appear-
ance —otherwise there would be an unseemly
scramble for possession of the morsel. Field
Fisher as Sinbad, Lilian Crisp as Hinbad,
Kathleen Goodall as the inevitable fairy
princess with a bent for rhymed oratory,
and Les King as the Old Man of the Sea
do their parts with seasonal energy. Dirk
the Dog is filled with that eminent animal
impersonator William Hassan, and the
Royal Camel is stuffed with Peter Gordon
and Reg Baxter. Sinbad’s ship has marched
with the times and has become a modern
liner, and there is a' grand scene when a
cabin, after tossing its occupants to and
fro in a maldemcrish manner, makes a com-
plete revolution.
* * ¥
“The League of Happiness” was Rolls's
kick-off to the new year at Melbourne Palace.
One thing the theatregoer ought to be grateful
to Rolls . for. The girls throughout are
plump, with the exception of a blonde, and
she could easily be improved by diet. This
is a gratifying change from the Hollywood
convention of beauty, represented by Miss
Anaemia Debility. Jennie Benson, ’ Bertie
Wright, George Moon, Fred Bluett and all
the other favorites are included in the present
delegation. Gus Bluett and his progenitor
provide an original sketch, “Wild Man from
Borneo.” but on the whole the new extrava-
ganza hasn’t the freshness of the last one.
There fjre few ideas in it under the age of
40. Still, the public likes it. so there is no
need to pursue the subject further.
* * *
“Alice Sit-by-the-Fire,” put on bv the
Cairns Memorial Dramatic Society at its
rooms in Melbourne, is a typical Barrie
show. A girl who gets from the theatre
high ideals about how parents should
behave, who subsequently tries to get her
pa and ma to live up to her maidenly dreams,
and who is brought back to reality by bring
taken to a different sort of play gives the
sentimental Scot full rein for his invincible
adolescence; and the last scene, where the
girl comes on in a nightie, would bring tears
to the eyes of a Grand Inquisitor. The
C.M.D.S. gave the piece sound support. Ella
Bromley, a new arrival, played the stage-
struck damsel with considerable finesse ; and
between the rest of the cast, which included
Dorothy Bush, Wallace Robertson, Helen
Triekett, Norman Balmer and Tessie Cox,
it would be a shame to pick and choose.
* * *
Adelaide is at last putting up counter-
attractions to the talkies. Nellie Bramley
has reopened the Royal with a reckless
comedy, “Jimmie’s Women,” chiefly helped
by Ethel Basliford, Raymond and Milroy.
At the Tivoli is Betty Lambert as “Cinder-
ella,” with Nat Phillips and Syd Beck as
chief fun-makers. At both houses prices are
cut.
* # *
“Bitter Sweet,” the Noel Coward operetta
which has raked in just half a million ster-
ling during its two years’ run in London,
will open in Sydney under J.C.W. auspices
and with Margery Hicklin in the leading-
role. According to the Firm’s puff vendor
Miss Hicklin has appeared in London in
musical comedy “with great success and is
one of the most popular artists at West
End theatres.” Evidently the experience has
done the nice-looking young lady good.
* * *
J.C.W.’s plans for 1982 are on a more
grandiose scale than anything contemplated
since the talkies hit them between wind
and water. The gr’opera season is the
biggest item. It has been postponed till
April and doubt exists as to whether Mel-
bourne or Sydney will see the premiere.
Nevin Tait, who was responsible for supply-
ing for the last season a cast of topnotchers
which some people considered excessively
FLORODORA.
Mona, the anonymous doll, and Eric. The Trapses rep. co. Leo Franklyn on the
island (the things right and left are puffs of perfume). Cecil Kellaway
(bumps read). Villain, Sydney Wheeler.
generous, is in Milan collecting the principals.
During that season Browning Mummery was
kicking his heels in Melbourne for three
weeks without singing a note owing to the
surplus of first-grade vocalists. There will
be 12 to 15 principals this time.
The Palette.
The veteran John Ilennessy is once more
up for inspection at Melb. Athenaeum, along
with John, jun. Ilennessy, .sen., is a sincere
and loyal member of the Old Guard, and
does sound work in portraiture and not such
sound work in landscape. John, jun., is
apparently being brought up in the family
tradition.
“M.G.S.”: Have painters minds? This
question has become topical since the Mel-
bourne “Herald” opened its columns to a
controversy between modernists and acade-
micians on the merits of the Noo Art. The
impartial observer finds it difficult to decide
whether the nonsense . written by the
modernists in. support of the Noo Art was
worse than the nonsense written by the
academicians in defence of the Old or infirm
Art. What neither side was able to realise
was that both of them were fighting for
the same thing. The Noo Artists have
founded their cult confessedly on Cezanne,
a well-intentioned but clumsy craftsman,
who tried to depict Nature but made a lot
of mistakes in doing so. Noo Artists
value him for his mistakes, not for his
truths. If he? painted a figure standing
groggily they feel obliged, to do the same,
even if they know better. Tire Old Artists
—that is to .say, the academician's of 40
years ago—hated Cezanne because his honest
hi underings did look a little more like
Nature than their pictures. Their modern
descendants, the academicians of to-day, hate
the Cezanne followers because they threaten
to form a new sort of academics. New
fashions in art arc exactly the same as new
fashions in clothes and have an equal sig-
nificance.
“F.S.”: Melbourne “Herald” made a
meritorious attempt to excite interest in
modern art with its recent show, but it
is to be feared that Bagdad-by-the-Yarra
is too sunk in sloth or Philistinism or some-
thing to see the light. It was considered
only fair to give local modernists a chance
of demonstrating the meaning, if any, of
modernism, so they were invited to give
lectures. Art-lovers attended in droves and
did their best to become rhapsodical over
Van Gogh's Christmas-tree cypresses and
Gauguin’s islanders that never were on land
or sea, but they found the speakers more
incomprehensible than the pictures, if any-
thing. However, some progress was reported.
Youthful aostheticians soon picked up the
new terminology and drifted round the walls
murmuring, “Exquisite!” “What passion,
my dear!” “So two-dimensionally three-
dimensional, don’t you think?” It was
a case of catastrophic conversion, no doubt,
and not confined to the mere ignorant
public either.
“A.D.W.”: In the December number of
“Art in New Zealand,” that very beautifully
printed quarterly, is an appreciative article
bv L. 11. Allen on the work of Robert Wake-
lin, informative because it casts some light
upon the motives of those painters who de-
liberately draw badly. “Technique,” accord-
ing to Mr. Allen, “is nothing but a stimula-
five obstruction.” Wakclin “creates pri-
marily from an internal stimulus” arid uses
the “sense-object almost as a pretext for
painting.” It is further suggested to people
who quarrel with Wakelin’s draughtsman-
ship that “perhaps he is not painting exactly
what liis critic thinks he is painting.” Com-
ing after an affirmation that simplicity is
the real aim of art this doesn’t seem ai valid
excuse for drawing a vase so lopsided that
in reality it would tumble over, and with
perspective on the top but not on the
bottom (vide one of the reproduced Wakclin
exhibits). Wakclin and many others of
the so-called modernist group (but not all)
have had some training, and, presumably,
if' they chose could draw things as they
appear. If their revolt against conventions
leads them to paint things as they do not
appear, and to defend themselves by stating
that, while the critic supposes they intended
to paint a vase they were really actuated by
an internal stimulus to paint a whang-
doodle and only took the vase as a pretext,
what becomes of the aim of simplicity? If
the vase doesn’t matter and would ruin the
whole picture if it looked as if it did matter,
why bother about, outlines at all? Why not
entirely cast away such trammels on the
expression of the internal stimulus? That
wouldn’t mean that the pictures need neces-
sarily be meaningless to everyone but their
author. I’ve seen some most intriguing
landscapes in a block of figured marble.
“F.S.”: It pays to be a fashion in paint-
ing. Sir William Orpen left £150.200, which
is about as much as any Australian gallery
(our galleries have a large number of
Orpens) would have to pay for a good pic-
ture by Rembrandt, who left nothing but
unpaid bills and unsatisfied judgments. It
is unlikely that the Orpens will be worth
anything in another 20 years.
Poverty Point
A movement that lias been long called for
is the Australian .Composers’ Association,
just formed in Melbourne, with C. McCabe,
A. Smith and L. S. Thomas as its ten-
tative committee. Its aims are to assist in
gaining recognition for Australian song-
writers, especially from theatrical cntr.e-
peneurs, some of whom are totally unaware
that such animals exist, although there were
sufficient of them to provide recently a
whole evening of music which stood com-
parison with the imported flood of melody.
For a beginning the body will devote its
attention to popular stuff of the dance
variety, but when its wings grow will
endeavor to soar into the realms of ballad
and sacred numbers. There is room, too, for
encouragement to operatic, symphonic and
chamber-music composers, at present lan-
guishing in obscurity. One need mention
only one composer, Fritz Hart, whose opuses
in all departments now run into three
figures. ( One of Fritz’s works was sand-
wiched into the .curriculum of the last
gr’opera season in Melbourne without losing
face for its author.
“Cauboy” : As an earnest student of grand
opera I read with intense delight the other
day that for its forthcoming season the
Firm has decided to scrap all the off]
favorites and draw from a new repertoire.
Included in the list are Strauss’s “Der
Rosenkavdlier” and “Salome” ; Verdi’s “Fal-
.staff,” not yet 40 years old, which has the
same relationship to the earlier works of
the Italian master as “The Comedy of
Errors” has to “Hamlet”; Debussy’s
“Pelleas and Melisande” with its haunting
modern instrumentation; Humperdinck’s
“Hansel and Gretel,” which was done here
by De Rigo, but so long ago that it doesn’t
matter; JBoito’s “Mefistofele,” Paderewski’s
“Manru,” Wagner’s “Meistersinger” and
“Tristan.” I read on and learnt that the
Firm was fully alive to the existence of
Russian opera and proposed to draw on such
works as Rimsky Korsakoff’s “De Coq d’Or,”
Moussorgsky’s magnificent “Boris Goudonoy”
and Tschaikowsky’s “Eugene Oniegin” and
“Mazeppa.” I was just reading that all
these works had long been placed amongst
the regular features of opera seasons in all
parts of the world with any pretensions to
culture when I woke up.
“L. do R.” : The long legs of Athol Tier,
Adelaide’s elongated comedian, have carried
their owner far. He has played in France,
Germany, Belgium, U.S.A., London and South
Africa and toured his own company in the
Yeast.
“Cauboy”: Mention in The Bulletin of
Sir Oswald Stoll recalls his equally
famous wife. At the height of their joint
career the well-loved lady, loaded with
diamond earrings worth £5OOO, still func-
tioned behind the box-office window at her
husband’s principal theatre. She was a
lovely-looking old thing of 70 and an im-
promptu artist who had a word to say to
everybody. Her popularity may be gauged
by what happened when she and her husband
appeared in the stalls at Cbvent Garden
when the Dukes of York and Gloucester
were the principal guests. The whole audi-
ence rose and clapped its hands.
“Bond.”: The revival of Congreve’s “Old
Bachelor”-at Hammersmith Lyric just about
puts the lid on the recent dirt-hunting. The
“Sporting and Dramatic,” not usually
squeamish, says “for Restoration comedy
read ‘Fornication’ ”; and asks the censor
why “scenes and words calculated to cor-
rupt should be vile and impossible if
written in 1931, but pure and undefiled if
written in 1693.”
“L. de II.”: “Cauboy” (B. 16/12/’3l)
hasn’t got the story of the ghosting of
Mischa Elman at Melb. Athenaeum quite
right. The talkie record didn’t break, but
the vocal part went astray suddenly in the
middle of the “Ilumoreske” of Dvorak.
Elman’s bow continued to scrape a noise-
less fiddle, however, and the crowd began to
titter. Conductor Tarczynski was standing
in the orchestral well gazing abstractedly at
the screen when the accident happened. He
promptly picked up his violin and syn-
chronised his bowing with that of the silent
shadow above him.
,T. Beresford Fowler: In hurling, his gratui-
tous insults promiscuously at Repertory
producers throughout Australia and those
who play for them, “Cine Ma” should
substantiate his allegations with a few facts
or a little evidence. Speaking personally,
an actor in a professional company is not
allowed to continue in parts he has failed in
for years in capital after capital and revival
after revival; and surely he puts his ability
to the test when he elects to earn his living
by competing with society organisations in
the production of great plays. My reason
for transferring from the commercial stage
to repertory work was the success of my
production of Ibsen’s “John Gabriel Bork-
man” at the Playhouse, which won ecstatic
notices from the entire Melb. press (July,
1922, if “Cine Ma” wishes to refer to them)
notices perhaps unparalleled in our stage
history when the calibre of the play is con-
sidered.
“Spokeshave”: If anybody doubts the
reality of the fleshanblood revival, let him
survey the Firm’s prospectus for the 1932
season: grand opera, G. and S. opera, two
pantos—-“Sinbad” and “The House that Jack
Built” —Dot Brunton heading a new musi-
comedy co. with “Blue Roses”; Ethel Mor-
rison and her co. in “As Husbands Go,” new
operetta “Waltzes from Vienna” ; “Autumn
Crocus,” “Marigold” and “The Barretts of
Wimpole-street” by way of drama; Madge
Elliott and Cyril Ritchard returning and a
squad of virtuosi, including Moiseiwitsch, in
the offing. Then there are rumors of a fresh
outbreak of hostilities on the Ernest Rolls
front. Australian vaudeville is flourishing
on two circuits in Melbourne and Sydney.
Finally, the number of amateur dramatic
societies is now legion.
“Cauboy”: ’’The Barretts of Wimpole
Street,” which is the story of poet Brown-
ing’s famous love affair, and on the success
of which the Firm is prepared to put its
shirt, took £200,000 gross in London and
America in its first, year, and author Rudof
Basier has banked £20.000 in royalties. It
will be interpreted here by a strong cast,
which includes Gabriel Toyne, producer and
actor, and Margaret Rawlings, his wife.


BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
A World’s Bank
Though primarily intended to act as a
trustee, and to receive and distribute Ger-
many’s reparation payments under the xoung
plan, the Bank for International settle-
ments, founded in 1930 with headquarters at
Basle (Switzerland), has a much farther-
reaching purpose. Its ultimate aim is to
internationalise money and capital—that is,
to act as a world’s .Central Bank, a reposi-
tory for its gold, and, possibly, to issue a
common currency acceptable by any country
in the world. . „ T «
Great care was taken to have the 8.1.fe.
entirely free from political control, and its
sanctity is recognised, in case of war or
restrictive legislation, by the powers signa-
tory to the Hague settlements. It is
directed by the Central Banks of the coun-
tries interested, which in many cases even
now use the bank as an international clear-
ing-house. Paid capital is £4,000,000, the
portion of the reparations payments per-
manently held by the bank amounts to
£12,000,000, while recently there were free
deposits of the Central Banks and creditor
Governments amounting to £35,000,000. As
funds increase it is hoped that support may
be given to the money markets which are in
legitimate need of it, thus tending to level
exchanges and interest rates.
The initial problem is the accumulation
of a sufficient foreign exchange reserve to
maintain international stability. Though
until recently there were many countries on
the gold standard, there was often a marked
disparity between their respective interest
rates; it lias since been proved that the gold
standard in many of those countries was a
precarious one. Had all the gold been in
the hands of the 8.1.5. there would probably
have been no need for Britain’s abandonment
of the gold standard.
Though as yet it is mainly an ideal, a
world’s Central Bank, bearing the same
relation to, say, our Commonwealth Bank
as the Commonwealth Bank bears to the
trading banks, would be a big step towards
solving the world’s monetary problems and
the regulation of prices.
Debt Falling Due
The Commonwealth, which had 29 mil-
lions of funded debt falling due last year is
lucky this year ; it has no maturities either
in Australia or overseas —that is on its own
account. Next year will present a larger
problem; it will have to take care of of
millions then due. Among the States, whose
liabilities have been assumed by the Com-
monwealth on certain terms, N. S. M ales
is in much the most serious position: it has
13 millions falling due in London this year
and 2| millions in Australia. The total
falling due for all the States this year is as
follows :—•
Overseas. Australia.
N. S. Wales .. .. £12,992,904 £2,754,891
Victoria"' .. ... Nil 5,730
Queensland .. .. Nil 00
S. Australia . . .. Nil 3,003,120
Westralia .. .. Nil 1,231,192
Tasmania .. . ■ Nil 183,224
This is in addition to short-term loans
falling due —mostly advances by Australian
banks, though at a recent date we owed 15
millions in London to the Westminster Bank
and on issues of Treasury bills.
War Debts
Britain and the United States are the
greatest war creditors. The amounts pay-
able to them, in principal and interest spread
over 62 years, are as follows: —
To To
~ . United States. Great Britain.
Payable by—
Great Britain.. ..£2,282,047,603 ~~
France .. 1,407,056,323 £799,500,000
Italv !! .. 494,728,253 276,750,000
Poland . . .. 89,524,839
Belgium . . .. 149,554,212
Czechoslovakia .. 64,276,322 —-
Roumania . . . . 25,172,519 31,250,000
Yugoslavia , .. 19,557,048 32,800,000
Greece .. 4,177,397 23,550,000
Portugal .. •• - 23,975,000
Total .. .. £4,536,094,516 £1,187,825,000
The total amount of the original debt to
Britain (principal alone) was £1,349,582,56<.
Under the Young plan this was funded and
large concessions made, the principal and
interest together, payable over 62 years,
amounting to 161 millions less than the
principal due, according to the first accounts.
The foregoing debts are due by the Allies.
Under the same plan Germany was to pay
reparations divided into two classes —those
which might not be deferred and those which
might be deferred in certain circumstances.
Of the former, £30,600,000 was to be pay-
able annually from 1930 to 1966; of the
latter, amounts varying up to 87 millions
were payable. After 1966 and until 1988
payments averaging over 55 millions were
to be made.
Germany asserts that the payments are
utterly beyond the nation’s capacity, not so
much because it cannot produce the wealth,
but because it cannot find a foreign sale for
its goods, and therefore cannot change them
into gold or foreign currency, which of
course is alone acceptable to foreign credi-
tors. No foreign creditor would accept pay-
ment in a local currency, which would be
liable to inflation and hence practically
destruction.
The N.S.W. Valuer-General
Whatever Government succeeds that of
Mr. Lang in N. S. Wales should take into
very early consideration the complete wiping-
out of the Valuer-General's Department.
This was a creation of an early Labor Gov-
ernment, and, though good in theory, has
been a failure and worse than a failure in
practice.
The idea was to set up a valuation for
every ratable property in the State, as the
basis of all rates and taxes. Obviously two
things are liable to happen: the department
being merely a collection of public servants,
dependent for promotion and qven for em-
ployment upon the goodwill of Ministers,
valuations are liable to be made to suit
the circumstances. Thus one hears detailed
stories about extraordinarily low valuations
having been made of properties which were
presently required by the Crown. But, see-
Lng that Governments are always hungry for
taxes, the general tendency has been to make
ridiculously high valuations, and these absurd
valuations were largely responsible for the
wicked and disastrous boom which occurred
in real property values a few years ago.
During the past year 500,000 valuations
said to be new have been made by the de-
partment’s officers ; anyway, 500,000 notices
have been issued, and for the most part they
are probably more ridiculous than the aver-
age of the past. Many of those made early
in the year are flagrantly unjust. Since
they were issued rents have been cut 22J
p.c. by law, and in tens of thousands of
cases no rent has been received for months.
Yet the valuations allegedly made before
the 22J p.c. cut, and before the other legis-
lation was passed destroying _ property
values, are the valuations upon which future
rates and taxes will be levied unless they are
appealed against.
It is quite safe to say that many smashing
reductions will be made; there is an appeal
to the Court presided over by Mr. Justice
Pike, who has already given a pretty fair
indication of what he thinks about the
department’s 1930 valuations. The most equit-
able thing would be to assume that every-
body had appealed. But the law insists
upon some formalities; these can be com-
plied with by lodging an appeal within 30
days of the date of receipt of valuation.
Britain eats about 1,750,000 foreign bul-
locks and cows in a year. They come in
quarters, supplied as follows: Australia
(1930 figures), 587,000; M.L., 152,000; S.
America, 5,978,000. But we show up a little
better where sheep and lambs are concerned:
Sheep. Lambs.
Australia .. .. 708,000 2,200,000
Maoriland .. .. 2,590,000 7,142,000
S. America .. .. 1,900,000 4,946,000
One astonishing change of the past 20 years
has been in the growth of the trade in lambs
at the expense of the trade in sheep. In
the year before the war the U.K. took
5,617,000 lambs, as against over 14,000,000
now, while the imports of sheep have shrunk
from 7,218,000 to 5,200,000. It is entirely
characteristic of the times in which we have
been living; but we shall probably have to
go back on our tracks.
“Larrapinta”; We have had a visitor
from the U.S.A. staying with us, and one
evening she brought home a small can of
American maple syrup which she had bought,
informing us that it was the most delicious
pancake syrup on earth. We tested it, to
find that it was of quite a pleasant, aro-
matic flavor, but to pay 2s. 6d. for a quarter
of a pint of the stuff seemed to me to be a
bit over the odds. So,
my job being bee-
keeping, I did a bit
of experimenting, and
later introduced the
visitor to “Australian
maple syrup.” She
cheerfully admitted
that it was equal to
the other, and if any-
one wishes to put a
good pancake syrup on
the market he is wel-
come to the recipe:
Four parts lucerne
honey, 2 parts broad-
leafed peppermint do.,
1 part each of Stony
Mallee and dry-land
tea-tree honey, with
sugar syrup added to
stop it from candy-
ing. You can’t tell it
from the American
maple syrup and it
costs a trifle less than
sixpence a pint. The
way we Aussies pay
fancy prices for im-
ported foodstuffs when
we have just as good
here in our own
country shows us to
be the biggest goats on
earth; the fact that
I find this Yankee
maple syrup to have a
good sale is only one
instance out of a score.
s*l H* *
A tremendous “Buy
British” campaign
started in England in
the second week in
Nov. and was still in
full swing when the
last mail closed. In
the course of it extra-
ordinary things have
been reported. For
the first time in his-
tory the windows of
the grave Government
offices standing in dig-
nified ranks down
Whitehall have burst
into bright posters,
and, after that, any-
thing may happen.
Four million “Buy
Bri t i s li” showbills
were printed; amoiig
others, troops of Boy
Scouts were mobilised
to help deliver them.
Forty thousand hoard-
ings have been lent
re n t-f re e. Millions
more “stickers” have
been issued; practi-
cally every motor-ear
in the kingdom is
showing at least one.
The aeroplane has
been used, too. Amy
Johnson has been one
of the distributors.
And, of course, a
talkie has been made
—with speeches by the
Prime Minister and
George Lansbury,
leader of the Labor
Opposition, asking
everyone to buy
Empire goods and in-
sist on getting them,
and explaining—Lansbury as definitely as
MacDonald—that a real determination to
purchase Empire goods can do more than
anything else to bring back prosperity ‘at
home and overseas.”
$ * * *
Thousands of people who “never could
understand decimals” will get comfort out
of a recent Equity suit in Sydney. A man
had left his widow the income on £15,000,
and a trustee co. was to look after the
business. It decided on a mortgage and
advanced the then usual 55 p.c. on a valua-
tion made by a reputable firm. But m
the submission to the board 55 p.c. was
said to be £12,962 instead of £11,962 ; and,
though there were on the board the cx-g.m.
of one of Australia’s biggest trading cos., the
ex-Sydney manager of a great bank and
the ex-head of a pastoral co., nobody noticed
the error. Incidentally, the co. had to
pay up over £lOOO and costs, Justice Harvey
holding that the security wasn’t good enough
for a 55 p.c. advance —50 p.c. was quite
as much as should have .been risked. This
decision opens up a large vista of unpleasant
possibilities for trustee cos.
i'fi *
Figures lately compiled about trading
banks and their customers
Total number of shareholders .. .. 73,900
Total number of depositors .. .. 940,000
Total number of borrowers.. .. .. 325,500
Borrowers are grouped thus:—
P.e.
of Total.
Primary producers .. .. 131,500 40.4 p.c.
Secondary industry .. . . 12,050 3.7 ~
Commerce .. . . • • 80,400 24.7 ~
Personal and professional .. 92,110 28.3 „
Sundry small borrowers.. .. 9,440 2.9 ~
Total borrowers .. .. 325,500 100.0 p.c.
To which should be added :
Deposits of cheque-paying banks for
September, 1931 .. .. .. £299,736,156
Deposits of Savings Banks .. .. 192,547,000
Capital paid up of all banks, about 45,000,000
* * *
The improvement in the Queensland sugar
industry in the last 30 years, during which
the acreage has trebled and the yield been
multiplied six times, is due principally to
the introduction of better varieties of cane,
as a result of research by the Bureau of
Sugar Experiment Stations. Since the in-
auguration of these stations the yield of cane
per acre has increased from 1.9 to 3.4 tons,
while the quality of the cane has been so
improved that the amount required to pro-
duce a ton of sugar has fallen from 8.7 to
6.9 tons.
* * * *
“Flinders”: There’s' something hard to
understand about the chicory market.
Phillip Island (Yic.) used to grow most of
the 700 tons a year which this country con-
sumed, and the growers made a fair thing
out of it. But to-day the local price has
gone down to 117 a ton, and most of the
old growers have been pushed out of the
business. Yet Belgian and Dutch chicory
can’t be landed here for much less than £45
per ton, duty and exchange included. There
is something wrong somewhere. It isn’t
with the quality of the Australian stuff:
that, admittedly, is equal to the best.
* * * *
“Bolt Rope” (Suva) : Fiji gets more
American, and in the process grows actually
anti-Australian. The Yankeefication of Suva
in particular is due mainly to the pictures,
tho'ugh gramophone records have a big in-
fluence, too. The natives see on the one hand
a wonderful country with all the gold and
most of the wisdom and beauty of the
world; and on the other a country which
nobody knows much about, but which is
vaguely understood to be chiefly desert,
peopled by folks who try to get out of
paying their debts—Mr. Lang has done
more harm to Australia than the prickly-
pear. Anyway, you can now buy Australian
goods in Fiji with difficulty, and the latest
stroke is to bar practically all Australian
fruits, on the ground that the country is
riddled with pests. Australia has lost the
mana which the Digger won it.
* * * *
“Fourwalls”: The Moreton Bay brought
out on her last trip nearly two million
horseshoe nails —enough to attach shoes to
100,000 horses; and this was the second
large shipment within the last few months.
If we can’t make these in Australia it’s
time we learnt how.
* ❖ ❖ ❖
“Iconoclast”: “Consistency and faith-
ful work” were the outstanding features an-
nounced by a Paddington (Brisbane) boot-
repair merchant. I had tried every known
means to earn a crust. In normal times 1
am a window-dresser and commercial artist,
but trade was dull, and attractive trade dis-
plays were regarded as a luxury. I can-
vassed the larger, the smaller and the one-
man shops for price-tickets or window-cards;
but the old “6s. lid. reduced to Is. 6d.” was
“good enough for these times.” One day
I “worked” the labor suburb of Paddington,
and to my delight I struck oil. A boot-
repairer, a fellow-slave who was also feeling
the depression, agreed to have a window-
card executed with these words: “Do not
ask for credit or you may be offended.” I
put into it my best work and delivered it
bright and early the following morning,
rejoicing in the glad anticipation of once
more possessing 2s. 6d. To my horror I
was greeted with the intimation that my
patron had no money, but the very first
that the card brought should be equally
divided between him and me. I called every day
for two weeks. Since then I have been selling
clothes-props —with no worse success, anyway.
A HOPELESS DAWN.


The WARWICK”
Working Trousers
Made by Pike Brothers to
stand hard wear and rough
usage from strong Drill, in
a pleasing Olive shade. Cut
with side pockets, loops
and cuff bottoms. Send
height, waist and inside leg
measurements. Ready to
Wear. Price, per
pair
11/6
Three for 32/6.
Send your order to Desk S.B.
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Most Modern Hotel
T h= hotel Alexander
122-132 SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE <opp. Railway station)
200 Rooms 200 Baths
TARIFF PER PAY:
Room and Meals . from 22/6
Room and Breakfast .. .. .. .. .. .. from 12/6
Telephone: F 4141 (10 lines)
One of the Richardson Chain of Residential Hotels
V
.
■
'
■ ; •
’ ... **
wmPrn-'■ : %ls
__
.
;
> iv- •
5
'•I *
■ !
4
fl
ABORIGINALITIES
“The Secretary”: The editor of the
weekly journal “East Africa” has submitted
to the Council a story wdiich he wants veri-
fied or otherwise. It relates to “a station-
hand in the far north of Australia.” This
gentleman would “tackle a python for a
wager at any time, using nothing more than
his bare hands. The precautions he took
THE STANDARD OF LIVING.
TOURIST: “What’s it like living in these parts, Jacky?”
JACKY: “Good, my word! Plenty goanna, plenty snake, plenty ’possum — ooh, plenty
EBERYTING!”
were always the same —first, to have the
snake carried to a clearing; second, to dis-
robe and thoroughly grease himself all over,
excepting only his hands and feet. Then he
would close with the snake, placing his
two hands round its neck. At once the
python would try to crush its tormentor,
and often the battle would last for as long
as 20 minutes, during the whole of which
time the snake would be coiling and uncoil-
ing itself continuously. But never would
the man release his grip on its throat, even
when thrown down, as he often was. At
last he would throttle the reptile. This
python-wrestler believed that it is essential
for a. python to gain a purchase with its
tail before it can crush a beast —or man.”
Some of the Council’s most experienced
snakeologists say the yarn is new to them,
but, though a bit rococo, is not impossible.
Can anyone supply some facts ? It may be
that this same story suggested to Lord
Leighton the idea for one of his most famous
statues.
**, * *
“Mulga Mick”: “Mulgo’s” par. (B.
2/12/’3l) about white men married to abos.
brings back to mind a trip along the rabbit-
prOof fence between N.S.W. and South Aus.,
on the section known as “Kidman’s Corner.”
After leaving Yandama station for Myl-
pringa, I came across a blacks’ camp. I
called to inquire about the track and got
quite a shock when I was greeted by a
rather good-looking white woman. She in-
formed me that her husband was a black-
fellow, and I didn’t doubt her word when
I saw her children. She also mentioned that
a friend of hers was married to an abo. who
lived further down the creek. After a little
persuasion she told me her story. She and
her friend came out from England as
domestics, got out of work in Melbourne,
took a job on an out-back station in N.S.W.,
met the two flash abo. stockmen, and are
now living in mia-mias, rearing half-castes.
* * * #
“Umtali” (Rhodesia) : M’bobo was a
hefty buck Mashona native who acted as
my valet-che/-housemaid, etc. I have some
200 black retainers who generally work when
I am looking directly at them. A few
months ago M’bobo disappeared suddenly,
and at the same time, a fowl, a razor and
a pair of cheap Japanese shoes went a.w.l.
I put it round quietly amongst my savages
that I would pay “m’pufana” (10s.) to
anyone finding M’bobo for me. .Then, I
thought, I’ll deal with Mr. M’Bobo —thank
the Lord, he hasn’t taken that sjambok.
Nothing happened for about a week, but
while I was listening to the revelry caused
by a beer drunk in the compound, I was sur-
prised to see M’bobo suddenly appear before
me, with a vast grin on his sable dial. “Oho,
what the devil do you want?” I asked,
edging gently towards him. “Oh, Inkoos.”
said the noble savage, “I hear that you
have offered m’pufana to anyone who finds
me?” “Too true I have!” I answered
warmly. “Well. Inkoos, here I am. I’ve
found myself for you. Please give me the
m’pufana now, so
that I can buy
some beer from the
girls in the com-
pound.”
* *
“Prof. W a 11-
Shores” : Upon the
tree-clad slopes of
Mt. Monster, near
Keith (S.A.), lives
a creature found
nowhere else on
earth the fierce
bom w’at ( Q-obbii
carpetbagia). This
huge and ugly tuni-
cate lives an almost
entirely arbor ea 1
existence, crawling
sluggishly up and
down the trunks of
the gum-pine trees,
living chiefly upon
the tree rabbit
(Bunni arborealus)
and that pretty little
songbird the twidge
(D i c kabirdii
twee t y t w e e t a),
stalking them after
the fashion of a
toad, and snapping
them up when near
enough with a noise
like the slamming
of a door. The
curious part of its
hunting, moreover,
is that it discharges
from its right paw
a fine white powder
with a saline
flavor, which it
deposits on the tail
of its victim be-
fo r e swallowing
it with the nrjsy
gulp I've already
mentioned. The
bomwat is of great
Interest to scien-
tists, being the only
oviparous placen-
tate on earth, and
in spite of its
hideous and forbid-
ding appearance is
not dangerous to
human beings. Should you pass by a tree
which contains a bomwat without noticing it,
it will do you no harm
beyond reaching o-ut
its left paw, seizing
rour ankle in a firm
Dut gentle grip, and
jiving your leg a sharp
:ug before releasing it.
Why it should do this
las long puzzled the
scientific world, but
the creature must find
it amusing, for a close
observer can detect a
gleam of sardonic
merriment in its green
and baleful eyes as it
does so.
“Uramao”: A casual
cuss is the Maori. At
a railway station
where time is per-
mitted for luncheon,
the violent and unex-
pected ringing of the
bell caused no end of
commotion. A corpu-
lent old gentleman got
a fish-bone in iiis
throat as he tried to
finish his lunch; rela-
tives were pushing
stout ladies up
the steps; in their
spurt for carriages,
young things displayed
their j a z z-g arte r s.
an d collisions an d
fierce altercations took
place at half a dozen
places. The guard
dashed along and saw
a cherubic-faced Maori
taking his hand from
the be 11 -clap p e r.
“What's the meaning
of this?” the official
asked. “Te wahine
she no come: I fright-
ened she miss te train —I ring te beil.”
Then, turning to a mountain of brawn
bearing down on him, Hori grabbed some
of her luggage and said brightly: “Arite,
guard, start te train off!”
SPELL-OH!
TTHE SNIPE: “Think o’ pore old Harry bein’ sent up! One o’
the fastest-workin’ burglars in the game.”
TTHE SNATCHER: “Ah, well, he’s takin’ his time now.”
“Oran”: Surely Willy Wagtail comes
within the category of mason birds? His
neat nest, about the size of a small cup, is,
like that of the magpie-lark, stuck on a
horizontal bough. It looks almost too tiny
to hold a brood of three, but Mr. and Mrs.
Willy pack a trio into it. They have a
strenuous time feeding three youngsters, and
when, as happened in our garden last year,
Willy is left wifeless (the cat took Mrs.
Willy), the unfortunate little widower
has to work all day and part of the night
feeding the hungry orphans. When I knew
Willy lie began the hunt for food some-
where about 3.30 a.m., and in the half-light
of an unusually long twilight I have heard
him reproaching a hard world as late as
9 p.m. When the brood had flown I was
about to souvenir the empty nest, but a
bird-lover told me Willy always used his
nest for two broods, so I left it and watched
him and a new wife rear another family.
:!: * =!= *
“Katiti”: Claimed as a world’s record is
the tally of 1586 large sheep shorn in 8J
hours by Sonny White’s gang of five at
F. Stafford’s Sherbrooke station, in Poverty
Bay (M.L.), recently. Sonny White was
the ringer with 339, the others being George
White 323, Huitau (a Maori) 314, Solomon
310 and Maxwell 300. It took five women
and two pressers to keep the floor clear.
* * * *
“Dr. Nil”: “Gulliver” (B, 9/12/’3l)
mentions a heroic method of curing tooth-
ache. Here is an easier and safe one. Pro-
vided there is an accessible cavity in
the tooth, clear it out as thoroughly as
possible and dry it with a small wisp of
cotton-wool twisted on to a bit of thin
wire. Then, while the hole is dry, twist
a fresh fragment of cotton very loosely on
the wire, leaving a fine end to it rolled by the.
finger and thumb. Immerse the extreme
point of this in pure carbolic acid, so that
it only soaks up about one drop. Insert this
into the cavity in the tooth and pack the
wdsp down firmly into it with a bodkin or
match-end, leaving the dry part of the wool
level with the surface of the tooth. If
the nerve is exposed this will give almost
immediate relief; and, in many cases, even
when it is not. If only a drop of carbolic
acid has been used, what escapes into the
mouth is of no consequence; the process may
be repeated once a day.
ROSELLA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a jester flying in the orchard,
Flaunting his motley, yellow, green and
red.
He looks at me and nods his knavish thanks,
As if the tender fruit on which he fed
Were grown for him; and now, with comic
stride,
Struts to the trellis where the bunched
grapes hide.
See where he's left a bleeding trail of plums
With all their yellow skins crinkled and
torn,
Of apples marred by scars fast turning
brown;
And now the trees hang all their leaves to
mourn
Their ravished glory. Shall a bird destroy
What I, the vine’s true husband, should
enjoy?
Like some fierce baron tearing at his meat,
Bestial for all his painted chivalry,
Whose Fool has snatched a juicy marrow-
bone,
And gnaws his plunder with an impish
glee,
Just as that baron lifts a spiky mace
To brain the Fool —I lift my gun to place.
There is a jester lying in the orchard.
Huddled his motley, yellow, green and red.
No more lie’ll spoil the summer’s mellow
harvest,
No more he’ll rob, for all his swagger’s
fled.
Am I a god thus angrily to slay
A partner in the beauty of the day?
N.S.W.
D. L. M. M.


DANKS’ POPULAR POWER PUMPS
fcS?S@S«&:
For Use with Petrol Engines or Electric Motors.
“Billabong” on a pump means the excellency attained by long
experience and the use of the finest skill and materials. These pumps
are made in our own Works to rigid specifications, and are used
throughout Australasia, the Pacific Islands and New Zealand. Whatever
your Pump requirements write here for information. Prices are rig t.
“BILLABONG” CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
For Irrigation Purposes.
A fine pump for raising a large volume of water with either petrol engines or electric
motors. The large sizes have been successfully driven by Tractors. Made for a life
time’s wear in sizes from lin. to Bin. Made in gunmetal to special orders.
“BILLABONG” DOUBLE-ACTING
PISTON PUMP FOR BIG LIFTS.
A powerful pump for use with petrol engine or
electric motor. Power and capacity in most com-
pact form. Will lift water up to 200 feet. In
various sizes from to 6in. Descriptive leaflet
free.
ft
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
JOHN DANKS & SON, PTY., LTD.,
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
“A.L.K.”: “Nakhoda’s” queer yarn (B.
2/12/’3l) about the tree-dwelling monsters
of Malayan folklore has its parallel in folk-
tales of' the Maori, who, it may be, found
his way to M.L. via Malaya. A Maori
story tells of curious tree-dwelling creatures
who had small heads, large waists and
chests, and ate their food raw. One of them
carried off and espoused a chief named Tura.
Apparently Tura grew very fond of his strange
Avife, for he was exceedingly sorry to learn
that, she would have to die when she was
about to bear a child, since it was the cus-
tom of her people to kill the mother in
order to deliver the child, performing the
Caesarian operation. Tura made it clear
that this was not necessary, and his wife,
having been delivered in human fashion,
showed her husband great love and grati-
tude.
* * * !i>
“Ringer”: So “L.W.” (B. 16/12/’3l) is
convinced of the superiority of the Mexican
wmoden stirrup over the iron variety. I’ve
used both. Give me the irons every time.
In New Mexico I saw a puncher, riding
in wooden stirrups, crushed against the
corral Avail by his horse. The stirrup
splintered, and pierced boot and ankle.
Regarding the weight, the heavier a stirrup
the tauter it keeps its leather, and this fact
facilitates speed and ease in mounting a
rough horse. As far as comfort is concerned,
I am sure that no stirrup is more comfort-
able than a four-bar iron.
“Australiano Malo” : The Mexican stirrup
is safer than the open stirrup, but this quality
does "not compensate the rider for the dis-
comfort and strain on the muscles of the
leg caused by riding by the toes, especially
on a long journey. The Mexican stirrup,
like the weird-looking chaparejos, was
evolved as a means of protection against
the cactus (I have seen cactus spines used
as knitting-needles), algarobillo and other
thorny vegetation of the Tierras Altas. The
out-back Mexican’s riding-boots are made
from the skin of the forelegs of _ a colt,
stripped from the limb like an eelskin. The
green skin is sewn up at the lower end and
drawn over the horseman’s foot and leg Avith
the fleshy side out, and kept there until
it sets to shape; when nearly dry it is
taken off and rubbed until it becomes soft
and pliable. Then, with his legs protected
by the chaps and his boots pushed into the
pouch-like stirrups, he is practically thorn-
proof. Every experienced horseman knows
that the most comfortable way of riding is
with the feet thrust well through the stir-
rups, and when it comes to sitting a rough
one or riding over big timber, how many
horsemen ride by the toes? If “L.W.”
would cut away the entirely superfluous pro-
tective screen from his Mexican stirrups he
would enjoy greater comfort and more
security in the saddle. I have ridden
thousands of miles on saddles fitted with the
contraption, and I know. The only item in
the Mexican’s outfit that might be adopted
with advantage to the Australian stockman
or roughrider is the double cinch.
* * * *
“Verri” : In Australia Maoriland’s Christ-
mas tree, the pohutukawa, is generally
referred to as a “bush.” Like every other sort
of tree it starts small, but it is not long before
it has grown to a fair-sized tree, and if left
long enough it attains huge proportions. The
pohutukawa is seen at its best on a seaside
cliff, stretching its gnarled limbs over the
sea and bending its tormented boughs in
all sorts of fantastic shapes. About the
middle of December it bears masses of
crimson blossom of the bottle-brush variety,
and turns the seas to blood-red with the fallen
thread-like petals. To see a Maoriland beach
lined with a row of the great, glowing trees
overhanging white sand and dark blue water
is something to inspire the most phlegmatic
citizen with poesy. The pohutukawa nor-
mally does not grow inland. It draws its
life from the littoral and the sea-Avind.
HAD HIS SUSPICIONS.
COP (to chap playing the saxophone in the street) : “I don’t know but what I oughtn’ter
arrest you for murder—a poor fellow down the street has committed suicide."
WONDERFUL THING, INSTINCT.
RREBECCA: “Vat makes you tink der place is on fire, Issy, if you can’t smell anyt’mg
purning?”
COHEN : “Instinct, Rebecca — instinct.”
“Country Ped.” : One time the instructions
for treating snakebite were to tie a ligature
on, cut the bitten area, suck out the blood
and then do everything possible to keep the
patient awake by dosing him with strong
coffee or brandy and keeping him moving.
Vic. country schools w'ere provided with a
snakebite outfit, the principal feature being
a bottle of caffeine tablets. Then came the
discovery of the value of permanganate of
potash. Now doctors are telling us that
the two worst things to do are to give
stimulants, which usually end in making
the patient drunk, and to walk him about.
I don’t know what the girl who drove 14
miles to a doctor with a snakebite case and
kept him awake by jabbing him with a. pin
and giving him frequent nips of raw brandy
thinks about it; but both he and she were
firmly convinced at the time that she saved
his life. As for keeping the patient quiet
to minimise the chances of circulating the
poison, the quietest and most unconcerned
person I ever treated was a girl of 14 who
was bitten on the finger w'hen she put her
hand down a rabbit burrow. Her standard
of intelligence was well below normal and
suffered no shock. In some cases shock may
do more damage than the actual bite, as
anyone who has been struck but not bitten
wiil be inclined to agree.
* * j»;
“Bogaduck”: What the thrip is to the
horticulturist the Rutherglen-fly is to the
apiarist. Honey produced in south-east S.A.
is mostly dark and treacly stuff which only
confectionery manufacturers will purchase.
The beekeepers in that part have had a bad
spin of late, and were looking forward to
making up their losses when the hill-gums
blossomed. This tree yields a very fair
honey. But when the flower buds burst
there arrived countless millions of the small,
gnat-like bugs, which packed into the calyxes
of the flowers, sucking up the nectar as fast
as it was secreted, and rendering it impos-
sible for the bees to gather a drop of honey.
Now lori'y-loads of hives can be seen on
the roads as the beekeepers shift their
swarms aw r a.v to Scotch thistles or anything
else which will keep the bees alive, leaving
the beastly little flies in possession of the
field. The mortifying part of it is that good
honey will be extremely scarce all over the
Commonwealth this year ; the market is ris-
ing. and some fat cheques would have been
going through the post if the bugs hadn’t
intervened.
“Larrapinta”: “Mulgo” : (B. 9/12/31)
asks if an abo. has ever been known to die
of snakebite. No, but they are not immune.
If one gets bitten the rest take prompt
measures. The only snake they fear is the
little death-adder. Of most wrigglers they
say: “He no coola fella, that one; he no
sulky fella,” and they regard him as good
tucker, a view which I, who have eaten
snake from sheer necessity, can share. But
of the death-adder they say emphatically :
“My cripes, you look out. That one plurry
coola fella ; he allatime sulky fella.” I once
heard a little Warramung boy give a shrill
cry of terror; immediately his father and
mother rushed to his aid. The mother
dropped on her knees, seized his leg tightly
with both hands and began to suck his
ankle and spit out the saliva, while the
father first slew a small death-adder with
a waddy and then jabbered excited advice.
The lubra kept on sucking and spitting for
10 minutes, then picked the whimpering
infant up and tried to take his mind
off the bite by calling his attention to
some avocets wading in the mud of a near-
by lagoon—which showed she knew quite a
lot about dealing with the after-effects of
snakebite. The little chap recovered.
* * * *
“E.S.”: Disputed Plains, between Casino
and Lismore (N.S.W.), which has for over
half a century been the property of the
Armstrongs, saw T some exciting times in the
days when it got its name. It was claimed
by two neighboring squatters. Ward
Stephens, then owner of Runnymede, and
A. A. Leycester, who held Tunstall, on the
Lismore side. For a time they contented
themselves with chasing each other’s cattle 1
off the plains. Then Leycester built three
huts at the main watering-place, and put
men there to watch the stock. He was
feeling sure of victory by that time. But
one morning a bullock team and a party
of stockmen arrived there from Runnymede.
The men packed the furniture and chattels
on the dray and set fire to the huts. Thence
the team and its bodyguard proceeded to
Leyeester’s homestead, where the late occu-
pants of the burnt huts and their belongings
were carefully delivered. The people who
were shifted laughed and joked about their
adventure, but the outraged squatter didn’t
see the humor of it. He followed it with a
costly lawsuit, which Ward Stephens won.
To-day Disputed Plains, a valuable grazing
and farming property, is proud of its name.
SAID .TOE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“These Labor Governments,” asserted Joe,
“Like ev’ry other sort, they come and go,
And, bein’ a workin’ chap, as you might say,
My vote is generally cast their way.
In normal times, it’s got to be allowed,
They’re just as good as any other crowd.
The trouble is that none can overlook
The way they lose their blocks when things
go crook, _ ~
And crumple up and in the discard go,
Said Joe.
“Old Andy Fisher made, they all admit,
A mighty creditable fist, of it;
And all the party could together pull
When loans and jobs alike Avere plentiful.
Then came the war. and flustered democrats
Fell on each other like Kilkenny cats.
The more of solidarity they spout
The speedier a crisis finds them out,
The shakier ev’ry day the front they show,
Said Joe.
“Two years ago it looked as plain as plain
Our. crow T d had come into its own again.
A gallant captain and a loyal crew,
We set no bounds to what they mightn’t do.
Now Scullin'sees liis ship a shattered wreck,
And Theodore has got it in the neck.
It seems this blamed depression queered their
pitch, .
And split their ranks and put them in the
ditch.
In piping years to hand it them you ve got
For bein as spry as any other lot; „
When times get stony, in their marbles go,
Said Joe.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
troni Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartment*
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
ms~r.
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and tor cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company's offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
f
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL& Cut*
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
THE CAR CURE.
“Many people bought old cars and patched them
up, thus obtaining healthful holidays.”
Mary bought an ancient car,
And found it to her liking:
It’s true it didn’t take her far,
But it made her take on hiking,
ft ft
He's certainly got the Lyons’ share !
ft ft
The N.S.W. Leg. Council has gone to the
pack.
ft ft
They call it the Langslide at the Trades
Hall.
ft ft
DULL THUD.
The eminent divorce counsel hadn’t read
his brief, but he had elicited in cross-
examination that the husband rarely slept
at home.
“Gentlemen of the jury,” he declaimed.
“We have before us a veritable Don Juan,
whose affaires d’amour extend from night to
radiant dawn. Alas, that such a brazen
admission of marital infidelity should be
uttered in this court with so blase an air!
Scorning the affections of his faithful cara
sposa, we can visualise him gliding like a
thief in the night—a thief of the glorious
and sacred offerings of the pagan divinity.”
At this stage respondent inconsiderately
interrupted. “What’s the old goat talkin’
about?” he asked the Judge. “Me a
tart-chaser ! I’m a nightwatchman !”
ft ft
Some of us are still getting over the Thirst
of January.
ft ft
This being leap year, we will watch to
see what woman proposes.
ft ft
Height of extravagance: A Bondi resident
pays the entrance fee of the Sydney Nudist
Club.
COUSINS TO THEY, BELIKE.
“You must come along to the Parish Hall next Wednesday and hear ‘Hiawatha,’ Mr.
Tredisseck. You know Hiawatha; of course?”
“Caan’t say I do, Missus. But I knawed the ’Lijah Trewathas down to Wallaroo Bay
purty well.”
MORE SUPPORT FOR THE LANG
PLAN.
George V. Swings into Line.
“With the Tory press significantly silent,
as usual where it is against the interests
of Otto and other Big-money Pals, it is the
'Labor Daily’s’ privilege to. announce that
his Majesty King George is now an enthusi-
astic supporter of. the Lang Plan. Advice has
been received by our special representative in
London that, whilst snaring rabbits on the
Scottish grouse moors recently, the percep-
tive monarch was discussing the sport with
one of his ghillies. In reply to a remark
by the latter apropos the scarcity of sports-
men this season, his Majesty said that it
couldn’t be expected that interest ivould be
so great this year as formerly! Interest not
so great! Reduced interest! In short, the
salient feature of our great leader’s Plan.
“So much then, for the pachydermatous
diohards and mental troglodytes whose maun-
dering criticisms of the Plan are an insult
to the Aussie worker’s intelligence, in the
rare cases where he has any! The Sovereign
himself has seen fit to endorse one of the
loftiest conceptions that the Brain and Heart
of man have evolved since the floating of the
South Sea Bubble. It is expected in Trades
Hall circles that, having thus won the Royal
imprimatur, the Plan will immediately sweep
Britain from end to end. And so it may
yet be the basis which the whole world —
civilised and uncivilised —will take as the
coping-stone whereon to erect a gracious
Palace, of Bloody Revolution, so that the
toiling masses may be at last emancipated
from the grim yoke of industrial slavery
which is their unhappy lot under the present
vicious, monstrous and utterly effete Capital-
istic System.”
ft ft
SUITED.
“Accused, who was sentenced to a month’s im-
prisonment, said he took the watch to got the
time.”
When called to answer for his crime
He didn’t mourn his sorry lot;
He said: “/ merely sought the time.”
And that’s precisely what he got.
ft ft
“Defendant, a German, said he didn’t know the
date of Christmas.
“S.M.: ‘Do you know the year?’
“Defendant: ‘lt’s dirty-von, I think.’ (Laughter.)”
— “Sun.”
This year looks like being dirty-too.
ft ft
“Langshan eggs are large, well colored and full-
flavored and fill the eye.”
Another name for them is election eggs.
ft ft
“IF YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN”
“It is fairly safe to say, however, that Australia
has passed the peak of the depression.”
— “Scrutator” in ‘‘Sun,”
All we need now is a little hard climb-
ing to win to the bottom of the pit, and
enable us to come down from the clouds of
the slough of despond into which we have
fallen of late. That accomplished, we will
be in a position to cast the depression from
us like a burst balloon, and rise on its wings
to solid earth at long last.
* ft
It’s now known as the Federal Labor
de-party.
ft- ft-
“ Diverting Motor Fees.”— “Age” heading.
The question is: will motorists see the
joke ?
>t ft
“Broken relations are a menace in international
life.”— “Age”
Like broke relations in everyday life.
¥
“Storm-clouds are lowering over Federal Labor.”
— “Argus.”
And it looks like reign for the U.A.P.
THE BRAVERY OF BARBARA
BLOBSON.
No one has acclaimed her. She hasn’t
been'compared in leading articles to Florence
Nightingale, Grace Darling or any other
heroine. It is un-
likely that she will
be given a D.B.E.
Yet, in her quiet
way, she has shown
more fortitude, a
greater capacity to
endure hardship
aye, downright pri-
vation, than any of
them. The reference,
needless to say, is
to Mrs. Willie Blob-
son, of Bellevue
Hill, who, on an
income of £728 10s.
p.a., and with the
Australian £ down
to 9.5. 9d. in Paris
(not to mention
absentee taxation in'
Au s tralia, income
taxation in France
and a £25 10s. ex-
change rate), is still
hanging doggedly on
in her 255. a week
pension in the Rue
des Decaves, Mont-
martre, and writing
to friends in N. S.
Wales to say how
.sorry she is they are
not there to share
her free, full and
brilliant life.
ft ft
1950.
“What makes me
gloomy?” you ask.
“Why, man, I drew
a payment to-day.”
“Congratula-
tions !” said the
stranger to Aus-
tralia.
“You don’t under-
stand. This notice
from the Amalga-
mated Do-Nothing
Co. says that, under pressure from the
Government, they are compelled to demand
my attendance (under penalty of a fine of
£100) to receive £4 18s. Gd.”
“Splendid!”
“Far from it! On that payment of
£4 18s. Gd. there was a 10s. duty stamp.”
“Anyhow it left £4 Bs. Gd. —not so bad!”
“Not after another ten bob in the pound
for unemployment tax had been deducted.
They worked it out as usual on the full
amount to the nearest pound, leaving £1
18s. Gd. Then there was the re-employ-
ment tax, which they imposed to pay wages
for a few jobs when they found the dole
ate up all the other one. Five shillings in
the pound —charged on £5, mind you—for
that! All I got was 13s. 6d.”
“Ah, well!” smiled the visitor, “13s. Gd.
is 13s. 6d.!”
“No, it’s not. They’ve cut out all exemp-
tions for State and Federal income tax and
at 2s. Gd. each, charged on the full amount,
I reckon out that I’m 10s. Gd. in debt on
the transaction. And that’s not count-
ing”
“Come and have a drink,” said the visitor
sympathetically. “Thank God, I haven’t
collected a cheque in this country for over
a year!”
ft *
AT G.IJ.Q.
There was consternation amongst the
flower of the New Guard. A touch of panic,
if the word be permissible in such a con-
nection.
“Keep your heads, gentlemen,” urged the
D.A.A.G. “Remember we have only had
the opinions of our brigade M.O.’s up to the
present. The P.M.O. and staff have yet to
be heard from.” “God grant that their ver-
dict be favorable!” breathed a G.S.O. I.
“Amen!” chimed in a G.S.O. 11. (p.s.e.).
From the parade-ground came an unmis-
takable sound—the tramp, tramp of military
feet. They proved to be encased in boots
(Army pattern; size 14) on issue to the
R.S.M. With an impressive gesture the
terror of every New Guardee who was still
shaky as regards his footdrill flung open
the Orderly-room door, and, in a bellow
that caused the picture of the Royal Family
to fall with a crash between the Red Rook
and a copy of the King’s Regs, on the C.O.’s
desk, announced the P.M.O. C. 0., Brigade
Major, M.O.’s, G.S.O.’s, Adjutant, Orderly
Officer of the day and Orderly Sergeant
sprang smartly, unitedly, hopefully, _to
attention; but the great man’s opening
words were discouraging. “He is having
difficulty,” he faltered, “very grave diffi-
culty, indeed, I regret to say, in supporting
his ego.”
“Fetch me my Freud, someone,” whis-
pered the C. 0., and the Adjutant rushed
from the room.
An hour or so later heads which, though
thick in some cases, were loyal to King and
Empire in all, had mastered the intricacies
of the case. Haggard eyes were raised in
hopeless query. The P.M.O. shook his head
pitifully.
And that was how the New Guard learned
the grim news that its G.0.C., Colonel
Eric Campbell, had contracted an inferiority
complex.
STATECRAFT.
The N.S.W. Parliament had once more-
assembled, and the public galleries were
packed with anxious citizens eager to. hear
about the constructive legislation which the
HE’D PICKED IT WRONG.
“You talk prohibition ter me, an’ me ’usband the champion
bottle-o!”
Premier had promised; “legislation which,
when in operation, would dispel the clouds
of depression, ensure a steady flow of
revenue sufficient to wipe out the deficit,
decrease unemployment practically to van-
ishing point, and appeal,” to use the great
man’s own words, “to all citizens of the
State worthy of the name.” And now, while
the House waited in tense silence, the Pre-
mier rose and dramatically announced that,
as soon as the Parliamentary draughtsmen's
work w r as completed, he would bring down
the bill to legalise betting in public on the
three-card trick, the Treasury to take the
proceeds, which would be allocated to the
hospitals when (or, if) the Government’s
needs were satisfied.
ft ft
OPERETTA.
I started solo on Life’s way —•
And then I met a maiden gay,
Who soon a duo for us
Arranged. The doctor came to-day
And ushered in a chorus,
ft ft
“Buggy rugs for sale.” — Advt.
Second-hand, presumably.
ft it
“Every election has its paradoxes.”— “B.M.H.”
Yes: the candidates who are down the
poll are invariably up the pole;
ft *
ANOTHER MISUNDERSTANDING.
TEETOTAL ENTHUSIAST: "Yes, Mrs. Jones, I
am sorry to say that jor every mission-
ary England sent abroad last year she
also sent 500 gallons of whisky.”
MRS. JONES: Dear me! I never thought
those, missionaries were such heavy
drinkers.”


AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
i new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
THE SACRED ALLIGATOR OF GLEN-
BOGIE.
Glenbogie station, on the Lochiel River, in
the Gulf Country was noted for one thing,
and that was alligators.
The station existed in the old Gulf days,
before the desertion took place. It was
situated at the head of tidal waters, on the
very bank of the river; and at the back of the
place was a large lagoon whence the supply
of fresh water was obtained.
Other stations might claim superiority in
the matter of snakes, mosquitoes and sand-
flies, but Glenbogie was alone and pre-eminent
in its alligators. They were sociable brutes.
They thought nothing of wandering round the
hut at night and going-to sleep on the veran-
dah, and it was quite a common thing to
tumble over one in the dark. If a man lost a
boot, or a pipe, or the leg of his trousers.
lie just said, “Oh! d the alligators,” and
thought no more of it.
As time went on the alligators kept increas-
ing and grew tamer and tamer. The men
could not find it in their hearts to shoot
them, and the saurians led such a jolly, hail-
fellow-well-met kind of existence that gradu-
ally strange alligators from other rivers came
to' hear of it, and when they visited the
place they liked it so w r ell that they stayed.
There was a good understanding that they
were never to touch the station cattle or
horses, but outsiders who strayed there used
to suffer, of course.
They were very particular. They had a
clever old alligator amongst them who could
read brands and tell ear-marks, and the other
alligators would never touch a beast until
he'd had a look at it. He was an awful
age, and was getting weak-sighted, so the
super, made him a pair of spectacles out of
the ienscs of a field-glass, and after that
he could read print half-way across the river.
Naturally, the other stations got jealous,
and spread all manner of yarns about, and
declared that the fellows ran in strange
horses and cattle on purpose to keep the
alligators in good temper, but this was a
THE PSALMIST OF PADDINGTON.
[Phil May. —2/3/’B9.]
[The subject was Alfred Allen, M.L.A. for Padding-
ton, writer of much verse of not much value.]
libel. As the men said, they encouraged the
alligators in order to keep the native dogs
down ; and it. was a fact that there were no
dogs about the place.
The colored cook in particular was very
fond of the alligators, and he first drew atten-
tion to the old patriarch, and the way the
other alligators used to watch the patriarch
and wait on him.
The jackeroo said he’d read about sacred
alligators in India, and this must be one who
had swum over. So he was christened
Buddha, and. after he had heard that, the
cook fairly worshipped him.
Buddha whs just as fond of the cook; he’d
come up and lie over on his side for the
cook to pull ticks out. of him that he had
picked up in the mangroves. At mealtime
lie would be there in the doorway and catch
that were thrown to him just, the same
as a dog. On killing days Buddha always
J ame up tQ the yard and kept order amongst
the other alligators. Every time after he
wpnt in the river he > d como up to the cook
to fa J pe'aceablf as possible
, lntil Christmas time, and a very hot summer
» «»»• The dray came up from Burketewn
CHARITY COVERETH A MULTITUDE OF SHINS.
BENEVOLENT LADY: “I hope you found the cast-off clothing useful, Mrs. Rooney.”
MRS. ROONEY: “Faith, I did, Mum. You see the old pants make a full suit for the
child and he’s not too much, confined in thim. (Shtand up Moike, till the lady
admires ye.) You see, Mum, they resemble the divided skirts, only more
decent lookin’.” [" Ho p."— 6/87 92.]
with a few luxuries and a keg of rum, and
there was a little bit of a spree.
The cook thought that it was very hard
that poor old Buddha should be out of it,
so he saved up half his share of the grog
and persuaded some of the men to do the
same, then he mixed it with a little water
and poured it down Buddha’s throat. Now,
although it was kindly meant, it was a
foolish thing to do. because all through his
long life Buddha had always been like E. J.
H. Knapp, a strict water-drinker, and, of
course, the rum soon took effect on him.
First of all he got very quarrelsome, and
thrashed one of the other alligators with his
tail. Then he got jovial and tried to
sing, and would put his forearm round a
young alligator’s neck and
slobber all over him. The other
ones were frightfully disgusted
and couldn’t make out what
had happened to the old fellow,
and when he made himself such
a nuisance they all retired to
the river with old Buddha
waddling after them calling
them all the names he could
think of, and offering to fight
them single-handed or in couples.
When the cook saw what a fool Buddha
made of himself he felt very mad because
he knew how the old fellow would feel it in
the morning, particularly if he remembered
the language he had used.
Next morning Buddha was up just after
daylight, and the cook had a billy of strong
tea ready for him; the poor old boy lapped
it down as gratefully as possible, crying ail
the time fit to break his heart. When he
had finished he gave two or three big sobs,
wagged his tail very mournfully, and went
hack to the river.
We all thought he’d just gone back for a
camp but he never turned up through the
day. neither did any of the others; so we
knew that something serious had happened.
Next morning a young alligator brought up
Buddha’s spectacles, laid them in the veran-
dah and went away again.
That sent the cook down altogether. He
said that poor old Buddha’s heart had been
broken by shame, and he must have com-
mitted suicide, and that he (the cook) was
the unhappy cause. He neglected liis work
and would sit for hours weeping over
Buddha’s spectacles. One morning he was
found dead. He had hung himself with the
chain on the killing gallows. He left a
will saying that his money was to be devoted
to erecting a tombstone over his grave with
the inscription stating that the deceased had
died out of sorrow for the loss of his friend
Buddha, wffiose remains filled an unknown
grave somewhere; and at the end lie w’anted
a verse of scripture put in—something about
lovely and pleasant lives, and in death not
divided.
The cook was buried near the stockyard,
and about a fortnight afterwards who should
be there in the verandah at daylight, waiting
for the door to be opened, but Buddha : and
on the bank and round about were all the
other alligators, just the same as before.
When the man opened the door old Buddlia
smiled quite pleasantly, and he had a lovely
smile for an alligator ; then he wagged his
tail and seemed delighted to see all hands
again. Everybody was sorry about the cook
and didn’t know how to tell Buddha, who
was getting very anxious and wanted to come
inside the hut. The super, brought him his
spectacles and put them on, and this pleased
the old chap mightily, you could see, but
it was not all he wanted. At last one of
the fellows thought of taking a gun, and an
axe and a bucket, and going up the yard as
though it was killing-time.
This fetched Buddha, who toddled up after
them at once. When he got to the yard he
saw the new-made grave; for they came
round that way purposely, and suddenly it
seemed to dawn upon him what had hap-
pened.
You never saw anything so moved. He
w r ent up to the grave, laid his head on the
mound, and cried till the tears made a great
pool. There he stopped day and night; the
men tempted him with bits of meat, but he
w'ouldn’t eat, and the other alligators ali
tried to comfort him, but it was useless.
Buddha lay there on the grave for a fort-
night. and then he was found dead one
morning. .
He w T as buried (in pieces) in the cook s
grave, and the super, wrote down to Sydney
to have some words inscribed on the tomb-
stone. Soon after that the country was
abandoned, and it's not at all likely that the
tombstone still remains to witness to the
truth of this yarn. [l2/7/’9o.]
George Washington.
An experiment in Communism: —
New Australia, which was to give the signal for
a social revolution to wondering mankind, has
dwindled down to a little cluster of shabby, half-
savage, and more than half-starved settlements in
Paraguay, their chief characteristics being a painful
want of clothes and a perpetual ebullition of
quarrels (a member writes from the
original settlement). It still counts
250 members, but only 85 of these
are men, and the classification of
occupations is very curious, includ-
ing as it does “one dancing-master”
and “one stump-orator (profes-
sional).”
The original community has
thrown off about half a dozen dis-
tinct secessions, and is now broken
up into five separate settlements, at
an average distance of about two
miles apart from each other. The
standard of living in these com-
munities is sinking steadily in com-
fort ; the communities themselves, as
a matter of fact, are lapsing from
civilisation into barbarism. Butter
is unknown, matches are forgotten,
sugar has become a mere memory,
flour is a medical comfort, a mutton
chop is a lost ideal. For months
not only the Pilgrim Fathers but
their wives and children have been
soapless. For two weeks the com-
munity has lived on beans; and
the very beans, Mr. Lane confesses
with a sigh, were bought on credit.
Money, of course, has disappeared,
and with it have vanished hats,
shoes, candles, etc. The children
are growing up without education,
and the adults have pretty well
dispensed with religion. The atmo-
sphere of gross materialism is most
deplorable in its effects.
Knowing the inner workings of
our several Little Pedlingtons, I
repeat that Communism pure and
simple is imaginary iot. Co-opera-
tion without capital in a mixed
crowd and on the lines we are
following is an utter mistake. We
are drifting to speedy destruction.
Communism destroys industry, for
the Communists themselves won’t
work. The idle man under a Com-
munistic system is to be paid as well as
the industrious man; the fool is to he as much
honored as the sage. How this system lowers
the productive power of a community isi conclusively
shown hy New Australia. It consisted of picked
men; it started with an average capital of £66
per head; it is set on fertile soil and under genial
skies. It is, in brief, “a free body of associated
workers,” with free land, and no “encumbrances”
in the way of capitalists or parasites. But the
average production of each worker is less than £lO
per head per annum ! There is absolutely no regard
for common property. No one will take the respon-
sibility of checking the children when destroying
the fruit trees. Tools and implements are lost,
mislaid or destroyed in the most disgraceful manner.
At the Las Ovejas settlement last year the melon-
beds were trampled on by adults and children as
if invaded hy a herd of wild elephants, and thousands
of melons were broken open—to see if they vei e
ripe—and not one was allowed to come to matin 1 j •
It is nobody’s business to look after public P lO
perty. The elective board of management changes
its personality, on an average, every six
Everybody is jealous of everybody else. The settlers
quarrel furiously over the distribution of a few
grains of sugar or a few handfuls of beans. Am
windy stump orator who happens to come along can
turn them around his thumb. They will reverse
their votes on any subject within a week.
democratic community can live where the units do
not form and exercise their own opinions. Two
months ago 65 to 41 decided on altering the con-
stitution to single-tax lines. Last week 8:1 to 23
voted against any change of rules on those lines.
[4/4/’96]
A N.S.W. draper’s assistant lias just been
arrested for stealing. He was detected
through the constant, alterations in his bulk
caused by the softgoods which lie wrapped
round him. History repeats itself more or
less. In Paris, a man has been arrested by
the octroi officers because he looked too fat.
When overhauled lie was found to be wear-
ing an india-rubber stomach containing a
couple of gallons of brandy.
In a party of eight sluicing a terrace down
Shoalhaven way there were in one tent a
little Scotch cook named Jamieson and a
big fat Irishman named Pat Dooley. Pat
was more of a bully than anything else, and
the way he used to “go for" Scotty .was
painful to see. But Heaven came to the little
man’s help by sending him along a dead
black snake, washed down the river. At.
night Pat went to bed and slept the sleep
of the man who can whip anybody in the
camp. But in the midnight there was a
great cry heard, and the boys, crowding in,
saw Patrick squirming in agony whilst
Jamieson was employed in valorously kick-
ing a huge black snake into the fire. They
could see at a glance what had happened,
and knew it from Pat’s holding a part of
his body where the reptile had bitten him.
Three of them having torn away Pat’s hands
and held him down, the experienced man of
the party saw the marks of the fangs. To
produce his knife and cut a steak out of
Mr. Dooley was the work of a moment.
Then they dosed him with brandy and hanged
kerosene-tins to keep him awake ; and when
he dropped off at last it was breathing bless-
ings on Jamieson, who had killed the snake,
and on his mates who had prevented him
from dying, begorra. And Jamieson arose
early in the morning and threw far into the
fire a long stick with two great pins stuck
in it at exactly the same distance apart, as
the snake’s fangs. It was not until after
he had left that the skilful operator and
his friends knew of the trick that had been
played. Pat knows now and wants to meet
Jamieson. [lO/12/’93.]
MY PHILOSOPHY.
Always remember a good turn done;
Forget, if you can, an evil one.
[2B/10/’93.] C. R. W.
One gang of syndicators that Mcllwraith
met with in England wanted to construct
250 miles of Queensland railways on these
terms: the co. to get 10,500 acres for every
mile of railway constructed, and to have
first selection, so as to get the best land and
leave the worst for the nation; the cost of
building the line to be put down at £3500
per mile (instead of £2500 as estimated) ;
and the State to pay 2 per cent, interest on
the capital invested in the line till it pays
over 4 per cent, to the shareholders. There-
fore. the situation would figure out some-
WHY, INDEED!
MR. TUBBY : “What the dooce are the coves opposite
larfin ’ at, Maria?”
[Frank P. Mahony. —9/7/’92.]
thing like this: Queeensland can borrow
money at 4 per cent., and build her own rail-
ways! and as the iines pay nearly 2 per
cent, interest the consolidated revenue has
to find the other 2 per cent.; in other words,
Queensland can possess her own railways for
a present net loss of 2 per cent., and take
all the profits when they come, which they
will in time. The British shindykit pro-
poses, on the other hand, that it should own
the railway; that it should get nearly
3.000.000 acres of land —equal to about twice
the cost of the line —as a bonus for its
trouble in owning it: that the State should
pay the 2 per cent, interest just the same;
and that all the profit—when there is a
profit—should go to the shindykit. Truly
there is nothing quite so mild and unassum-
ing as a British shindykit. [7/7/'94.J
THE PEARLS OF SORROW.
My suff’rings were a millstone unto me
That drew me down beneath the dreary
deep
To where the awful brood of Darkness
sleep
In Sorrow’s wild, unfathom’d, sunless sea.
My suff’rings were a diver’s weight to me
That drew me down beneath the watery
whirl
To where I found full many a peerless
pearl
In gem-iit caves ’neath Sorrow’s sunless sea.
P. LUFTIG.
TRUE FRIENDSHIP.
Of friendship, ’mongst the low and high,
Poets sing, and sang in days gone by;
But show’ me, if you can,
Four stauncher comrades than
My dog, my swag, my billy and I!
6x8.


“Look at the oil-hole in that gland nut. When we designed
these 'Rapid’ Centrifugal Pumps we took special pains to make
sure that the oil-hole would be always facing up, no matter how
the bowl is turned.”
“But that’s only a detail.”
“Perhaps it is only a detail, but it shows the care and thought
we give to these pumps when we build them. Here’s another feature
that’s only a detail. The bowl behind you can be swivelled to
any angle. That may save the user the cost of a pipe bend, and
also, the less bends used the better the pump works.”
“You told me that you make Centrifugal Pumps in many
sizes and in single, twm, or multi-stages, but you haven’t told me
just why a Centrifugal is used instead of some other type of pump?”
“Size for size a Centrifugal Pump gives a greater quantity
of water than other types. For instance, a two-inch double-acting
Piston Pump gives about 1100 or 1200 gallons per hour. The
output of a two-inch Centrifugal Pump, like the one we’re standing
on, would be well over 5000 gallons per hour.”
“H’m, that’s a big difference. But in deciding on the type of
pump to use mustn’t one consider such matters as pressures* speeds,
horse-power of driving engines, and so on?”
“Yes, all those things must be taken into account. That’s
where some inquirers find our free advisory service so useful. They
send in their problems and, often, a rough sketch. Our Experts
make suggestions and offer advice, of course without obligation.
Also we post our Pump Catalogue to anyone interested. It is
packed with information about pumps. Most people find that
the catalogue is all they need to help them decide on a pump.”
“I’d like to take a copy away with me.”
McPHERSON’S PTY., LTD., “Pump Specialists
Pump
Chats (No. 2)
51 Bathurst St., Sydney
116 Waymouth St., Adelaide
554 Collins St., Melbourne
532 Murray St., Perth
H
;
r
A
m .*
I wouldn t miss
this for
worlds... McCallums
certainly puts me right
till the morning ! *
(T/Callums
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney Melbourne and Brisbane.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide. LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle.
MACFARLANE BR OS. & CO.. Hobart.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital £8,780,000
Reserve Fund 6,150,000
Reserve Liability 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 7! £90,111,427
Gem il Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire lnsurances« ffectcd 011 ail classes of
— 1 Buildings, Stocks, Furni
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know,
Patents.
AN IMPROVED CENTRIFUGAL
STARTER FOR ELECTRIC MOTORS.
T'HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 21,118/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of x\ustralia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, 67 York
Street, Sydney.
Here’s a Chance for Lyons
A scheme to employ everybody who
is out of work.
Read “The Barrier Miner” Employment Plan
as stated in last Thursday’s issue. This daily
newspaper is published at Broken Hill twice
every day, and everybody west of the Darling,
in town or country', reads it every day to get
knowledge. Metropolitan newspapers are a
superfluity in the Far West.
Can you afford to miss
AMERICA
Right —New Orleans is rich
in the mellow charm of a
hundred years ago.
•
Below Silvery cascades
abound in America's innum-
erable canyons.
d
mm
m
m
***
a*
«?s $ <*#*»«*. '
>a.» ' g «
MERICA is constantly in the
jTjL news! Post and Gatty ... the
world’s tallest building . . . Wall
Street . . . the Olympic games . . •
Hollywood, the cinema capital... in
sports, drama, politics and industry,
America is always in the news. If you
would keep abreast of current history
you should know first hand this vast
arena of world events.
Travel on American Railways is at-
tended by the utmost in comfort,
convenience and keen interest. Ar-
rangements for any itinerary are
simple to make through this bureau
and without cost.
Plan your holiday to include Amer-
ica, reached on swift Matson liners
via New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa and
Hawaii, to San Francisco. A free
illustrated booklet will be gladly sent
upon request.
Giant skyscrapers frame this view
of Michigan Avenue, Chicago's
surging thoroughfare.'
Write to Department Al.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL AND
INFORMATION RUREAIJ
1 OBridge St., Sydney. ..Tel. B 7981-3


THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
HU
ISiSP'
mm
si mm
6°
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, LTD., SYDNEY
ďf
Q^^BUELe
Built on the quadruple com-
pression principle, this re-
markable British Pump is
double-acting and delivers
far more air per stroke than
many other pumps with
larger diameters.
Made by Sheffield engineers, of
the finest materials, the Renrut
Quadruple gives lasting and
efficient service.
and
mt
Price 60/-
(Wltli gauge, 5/- extra.)
Patentees and Sole Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & BRO., LTI)., Eyre Works, Sheffield. England.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71. Melbourne.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE 'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
WIMMERA RYE-GRASS.
Vic. Assistant Agrostologist Drake, writ-
ing in the “Journal” of the Department of
Agriculture, discusses the origin of that very
valuable annual Wimmera rye-grass. He
quotes 11. A. Mullett, who first, recognised
the grass as a distinct type, as follows : ”1110
earliest record is furnished by Mr. R. Eight,
who states that there was an area of the
grass on his farm at Noradjuha when he
took possession of it in 1887. It had been
planted there by a man named McNicol, the
previous occupier, who had brought it from
Europe.”
A McNicol introduced it and a McDougai
carried on the good work. Mr. H. Mc-
Dougai. of Minyip, got a bag of seed, which
probably came from Noradjuha. This was
sown on five acres, and had by 1919 spread
over an area of at least 3000 acres. And
since 1919 Wimmera rye-grass has proved
itself in Westralia, South Aus. and N. S.
Wales, and large quantities of seed are har-
vested in parts of the Western District of
Vic.
According to Mr. Drake, “the typical
Wimmera rye-grass of commerce _ is an
earlier-flowering plant than perennial rye,
being much more stemmy and having larger
and softer leaves. The stems usually show
a marked degree of reddening, and in the
late spring a field of Wimmera rye-grass lias
an unmistakable brownish-red color. It is
a very free seeder, and it is this characteris-
tic. together with the ability of the seeds to
strike on the surface, that makes it such
a valuable plant in dry districts. The seeds
are large—considerably larger than those
of perennial rye —and usually with a slight
brownish tinge.
“Provided it is sown under reasonably
good conditions, Wimmera rye-grass estab-
lishes itself well from very light sowings of
from 41b. to 101 b. per acre. It makes good
winter groAvth, but will commence to come
into car in the early spring. After this
stage has been reached, it makes poor re-
covery after grazing. As soon as growth
becomes stemmy new tillers are produced,
not from the crown of the plant, as in peren-
nial rye, but from nodes on the stem above
the ground, and if the plants arc hard
grazed very few even of these tillers are pro-
duced. The plants must be spelled in the
late spring in order to allow them to re-
seed, but after they have seeded and died
off they have considerable value as dry
feed.”
The departmental writer mentions that
early and late types of Wimmera rye-grass
are being developed in the grass-selection
plots at Burnley. For the wetter districts
the only virtue of the grass is its ability to
make good winter growth. Its usefulness in
the drier wheat belts of Victoria is recog-
nised. but not sufficiently; “its full value
in increasing the sheep-carrying capacity of
such areas has still to be appreciated.”
WATER-ROT IN WOOL.
“Junee”: “Murrawong” (B. 23/12/’3l)
is right in saying that water-rot or mycotic
dermatitis is highly infectious. This year
I had over 300 sheep down with it, and
after trying various “remedies,” such as
bluestone solutions, kerosene emulsions and
dips, I cut their throats and made a burnt
offering.
In a dry summer slightly affected sheep
will recover, the “scab” lifting off. Infec-
tion is caused not so much by contact in
the paddock as at shearing time, when the
bacteria are transmitted to sohnd sheep by
the comb scraping the skin. To prevent
this a responsible person should go care-
fully through each flock as they come in for
shearing and put aside sheep with water-rot
to be shorn at the end of shearing. Feeling
along the back is a sure way of discovering
them. Before shearing the board should be
disinfected and all handpieces sterilised. The
man in charge should insist on shearers
handing over used combs and cutters
brought from another shed for sterilisation.
By following these simple instructions this
disease can be stamped out.
/
LOW-GRADE WOOLS.
“Valerin” : “Lucerne Flea's” (B. 9/12/\3l)
proposal for. utilising low-grade wools for
working clothes isn’t practicable. Wool
retained in sheds is mostly locks, stained
pieces and matted fleeces containing so high
a percentage of grease, dirt, burr and vege-
table matter that the proceeds would not
pay transport costs to mill or warehouse.
After scouring, removing foreign matter ami
allowing for wastage in factory processes tl e
mill-owner would be lucky if lie got 10 per
cent, pure wool. It has been computed tha.,
in average wools, 7.111 b. weight of Sreasy is
reduced by the various processes to 2.b41b in
the material. The actual value of wool is
a very small factor in the price ot tie
finished article; wages and costs ot distri-
bution pile the charges on to the consumer
“L F’s” idea would be in order if the focal
mills were using Mungo or shoddy rags from
cast-off garments, tailors’ clippings, etc.
there is a big turnover in this stun m Eng-
land, where it is purchased extremely cheaply ;
low-grade wools could be worked in with tins
rubbish. I have seen in England attractive-
looking tweeds retailed at less than 2s. per
yard; they were Mungo products, but I
would have my doubts about their enduring
qualities.
WA’S BULK-HANDLING EXPERI-
MENT.
“R.R.R.” : The Westralian pool people are
experimenting with bulk handling in an m-
tcresting fashion at five sidings in the wheat
belt. Their scheme departs radically from
other bulk-handling systems known to me.
Open sheds, used in the past for storage ot
wheat in bags, have been floored with
jarrah planks fastened to discarded railway
sleepers. Sides and ends of the sheds have
been enclosed with jarrah lined with sheet
iron, then buttressed on the outside with
sin. x sin. struts and tied on the inside
with iron rods. These converted sheds form
the bulk bins or silos. Storage capacity
varies from 70,000 to ISO,OOO bushels.
The elevating machinery is a self-con-
tained unit mounted on transport, and not
fixed in any way to the bulk bins. It con-
sists of a 4-h.p. engine, a chain-driven bucket
elevator and a hopper of galvanised-iron.
It can be moved by two men either round
the shed or to the railway trucks for direct
loading from waggons. Each siding is
equipped with two elevators; each elevator
can lift 11 bags of wheat per minute. The
oil engine is from Richmond (Vic.) ; all
the other machinery, including the elevator
chains, has been made at Rocky Bay Works,
Fremantle, the materials being entirely Aus-
tralian. The five sidings were made ready
for bulk handling in less than four weeks.
Actual cost of the installation is not yet
available; obviously it is low. The engineer
responsible for the construction was retained
on the job in order to re-arrange, alter or
adjust the plant where experience under
working conditions showed it Avas necessary.
His services were not required.
As I Avrite, the scheme has now been in
operation for five weeks. Not the slightest
trouble has been experienced in spite of the
fact that nearly twice the anticipated quan-
tity of Avheat is being received; farmers are
passing bag-handling sidings in order to
deliver in bulk. Tavo points remain to be
decided: (1) Whether the Railway Depart-
ment can handle the wheat in bulk; (2)
whether the bins will be strong enough to
hold the grain when full. In regard to No.
2. the pool trustees carried out exhaustive
experiments before they resolved to use
the sheds for bulk grain.
The almost rainless summer in Westralia
makes bulk-handling in sheds a safe proposi-
tion as regards moisture. If the experiment
is successful —and the indications are that
it will be —the cost of a general installation
will be little more than the amount sent
abroad yearly for cornsacks. and the money
spent Avill all stay in Australia. The only
limit to the storage sheds would be the
length of the railway siding. There is no
need to take them high into the air.
The pool’s deduction from the selling price
of the bulk grain is per bushel. In my
own case, after allowing for the |d., I expect
to save £lO2 on cornsacks.
IRRIGATION IN THE BACK
COUNTRY.
“Mulgo”: Irrigation in the arid back
country by means of open channels requires
a tremendous quantity of water —and water
is often scarce. Evaporation is considerable,
and the ground is .so hot and dry that there
is a heavy surface absorption on each side
of the channels that is quickly dried out
by the sun next day. To avoid the waste by
evaporation, perforated pipes are placed a
foot underground; the water gets to
the roots of plants and trees, and
the soil is kept moist there in the hot-
test weather with a comparatively small
supply. The drawback, however, i.s the
Heavy expense in laying down pipes. A
cheaper and simpler way which has been
successful in out-back gardens is to plough
deep trenches, put about 6in. of creek saiid
in the bottom, and fill in with the soil. It
is best to have a slight slope from the feed-
ing end of the trenches, which should be
at least a couple of feet wide. The sand
carries the water through from a covered
cross channel or chain of holes, and the slow
seepage allows the moisture to spread
widely on each side.
In the dry north-west of N.S.W. one sel-
dom sees a bold crop of any kind, though in
many places there is abundance of well
water for irrigating purposes. Nearly all
the hay used on the stations is Mitchell
grass, cut in the paddocks in bountiful sea-
sons. On most of the. sheltered flats lucerne
will grow well, given its meed of water, and
those flats usually have a slight dip that
renders them a simple matter to irrigate.
The -growing of crops like pumpkins pre-
sents another problem. There are no bees
in north-west N. S. Wales, for instance. I
have watched Chinese gardeners fertilising
pumpkin flowers by cutting off the male
flower and turning it upside down on the
other. There are other fertilising agents,
which act well enough on the native flora,
but don’t come up to requirements like bees
on large fields of cultivated crops.
With irrigation bees could be introduced.
But their field would first require consider-
able preparation. The boundaries of the
field should each be planted with two rows
of honey-bearing trees, suitable for the cli-
mate, with an irrigation channel between
them. These are necessary also as breaks
to the hot, withering winds. The bees
should be introduced when the crops are
starting to flower, and thereafter left always
with a good supply of honey in the hives —
and fed, if necessary, in lean times.
One large fruit and vegetable garden I
saw on a north-western station was irri-
gated in an original way. A ridge, a little
more than two feet high and about three
yards wide, was raised right through the
centre of the garden, and each side of it
planted thickly with trees and trellised
grapes. Here and there a half of a square
4ft. by 4ft. tank was sunk in the side of
the ridge; a piece 9in. square was cut out
of the front side, and over it, on the inside,
a rough valve, made with a bit of board and
bagging, was fitted to shut off the water
when enough had been run into the garden.
The water was served from a large sheep
tank at a near-by well, the garden tanks
being connected by covered wooden drains.
In the evening it was only necessary to
turn a tap to flood the w'hole garden. It
took a lot of water, but did not occupy much
time. Besides their use for flooding pur-
poses, the sunken tanks —forming shallow
wells —were convenient for dipping from witli
buckets or watering-cans.
Farm crops, on not too large a scale,
could be watered by that method; but deep-
rooting crops, such as lucerne, would be
better served with underground channels.
ARTIFICIAL RIPENING OF BANANAS.
“Azac”: Bananas have to be artificially
ripened after they reach the Sydney or Mel-
bourne market. The most efficient process
has only just been worked out. As a
rule, the cases were stacked in rooms heated
by means of gas-jets until the fruit colored
sufficiently—such as wasn’t spoiled through
over- or under-heating. These crude methods
can be blamed for the leathery, tasteless
bananas you sometimes buy.
From now on. artificial ripening should
be no chance process. A special committee
of the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research, which has been working for years
on the subject, is satisfied that it is necessary
to have some accelerating agent present in
the air of the room. Ordinary unburnt coal-
gas has been found to be the best for this
purpose. That ripening did take place under
the crude methods employed is explained by
the fact that in a gas-heated room there is
always a trace of unburnt gas. Ripening is,
however, much more reliably effected, especi-
ally in winter, if the correct quantity of
unburnt coal gas is added to the ripening-
room night and morning. When this is
done, either gas or electric heating can be
used. Gas-heaters have the advantage that
the small amount of gas that escapes un-
burnt through the jet helps to maintain
the concentration of gas in the room.
Electric-heaters are, however, easier to con-
trol, are cleaner and give off no fumes.
For successful ripening, the moisture
content of the air in the ripening chamber
must also be controlled, although very
accurate control of humidity is not always
necessary; usually the bananas give off suffi-
cient moisture to maintain the desired degree
of humidity.
The actual procedure in ripening varies
slightly according to whether done in the
winter or summer. In summer (October to
April) the temperature of the room should
be maintained at between 6Sdeg. and 70deg.
Falir.; in winter it should be constantly
around about 66deg. The fruit will spoil
if the temperature is allowed to go above
70deg. This means that rooms have to be
fitted with refrigerators in summer, or built
in a very cool position and the walls well
insulated. In addition to controlling the
temperature, the humidity must be kept at
between SOdeg. and 85deg. summer and
winter. The amount of coal gas required
during summer ripening is one part per
thousand parts of air in the room, and three
parts per thousand during the winter. ±he
gas should be renewed twice daily.
After the fruit has begun to show color
the room should be ventilated in order to
reduce and maintain the humidity at about
70deg. A convenient arrangement for ven-
tilating is to have a trap-door (about 18m.
by 9in.) in the roof, and a smaller open-
ing, fitted with a sliding-door, in the wall
near the floor level. An electric fan should
be run continuously during ripening tor
the purpose of distributing the heat, mois-
ture and gas content of the room and also
to assist ventilation. In summer the fruit
can be removed from the room any time
after coloring begins, except in very hot
weather, when it should be kept cool until
well colored. In winter it is not safe to
remove the fruit until almost fully colored,
unless the place to which it is removed is
over 60deg. Falir. At temperatures lower
than that it is likely to chill.
dealing with the flying-fox.
“Booraby” : The grey-headed flying-fox is
causing great damage in orchards on the
liawkcsbury. Scares have been set up, lights
hung in the trees, poison traps laid, and
many growers have watched with guns at
night, but it has all been a waste of time.
The best means I know of dealing with the
pest is to locate a camp and organise shoot-
ing parties to attack it in daylight. To
make any appreciable difference, a party
of 50 to 'IOO is necessary.
Peaches appear to be the favorite cul-
tivated fruits of the winged mammals.
Besides what they eat, they waste great
quantities by merely nibbling the fruit here
and there, and they knock off bushels m their
squabbling and scrambling about. Their
foetid odor is so pronounced that peaches
merely touched by the body or wings retain
the smell for days after. Unlike birds,
they crawl about the branches with the aid
of their fingers and the sharp claw on the
front extremities of the wing, and thus
brush and foul more fruit than they con-
sume.
No fruit tree, whether in town or coun-
try, is safe from their attentions. They
travel long distances at night, spreading
over many miles of country, but return to
their special camping-ground before, morn-
ing. They go straight, and by noting the
flight the direction of the camp can be
got. It may be miles away, but it is usually
in thick timber and scrubby gullies, especi-
ally wherfe there are vines that they can
cling to. The flight can be followed- on
the darkest night, for the loud flop, flop of
the wings can be heard a long distance.
The hosts infesting the Hawkesbury district
are supposed to come from the foothills of
the Blue Mountains. In such rough country
it requires lookouts over a wide range to
trail them home.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred 'from Service Department.)
(1) How to eradicate Darling pea? (2)
How to treat tfieep suffering from its effects?
—7431.
(1) Only satisfactory method is to destroy
the plants. (2) No specific cure. If sheep
suffering from the effects of poison are
removed to a clean paddock, partial recovery
may take place, but not when paralytic
symptoms have supervened.
(1) lam a N.S.W. farmer. Gould I
carry my own family upon my own motor-
lorry under the N.S.W. State Transport
( Co-ordination ) Act? (2) Would I he
allowed to convey sheep from Armidale to
Barraba without payment of tax?— 7soo.
(1) Yes, provided the vehicle is licensed
under the Act. (2) This journey is competi-
tive with the railways, and a permit issued
(fee, Is.) would require the licensee to pay
3d. per ton per mile based on the weight
carried.
Best and cheapest method of clearing
grass-tree? J want, to plough the paddock
sin. deep. —727o.
Surest way is to grub it out, but you
could try poisoning and burning off. Use
lib. of white arsenic boiled gently with 21b.
of washing soda, made up to 4 gallons.
Double this strength is used for green sap-
lings up to lOin. in diameter. The solution
is poured into the crown of the plant, about
loz. to each plant.
(1) How is- butter salted—process from
churn? (2) How long should it be worked
to ensure correct moisture content? —7395.
(1) The buttermilk is run off through a
wire-gauze strainer and is replaced by about
the same amount of clean, cold water.
Rotate the churn a few times slowly and
run the water off. Repeat this until the
water comes away almost clear. Two wash-
ings will usually be found sufficient. The
(Continued on page 26’.)


■
/
Wmm
Australia’s toughest
leather
It is used in double thickness
for the sole of this Abbey
Cossack. The upper, too, is
doubled.... it has an inner
lining of soft leather. Because
of this rugged construction, the
Abbey Cossack outlasts any
ordinary working boot.
Wearers prove that invariably.
It is comfortable, too, and sur-
prisingly flexible for all its
durability.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 40/-
Black Box Calf . . . . 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 262
RADIO B BATTERIES
o< TORCH REFILLS •
7\(eu) esfyefter'^\>^ zrs '
Public Notices.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums required
from persons, etc., insuring with any
Insurance Company not registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act
1909-1927.
persons, firms, companies and associ-
ations being owners, trustees or agents
for any. goods or property within the Sydney
Fire District, and every other Fire District
in the State of New South Wales to which
the Fire Brigades Act 1909-1927 has been
applied, in respect of which premiums are
paid to an insurance company not registered
in the State, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Com-
misioners of New South Wales returns
showing the amount of such premiums paid
by them in respect of the said property to
such insurance companies during the year
1931.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1932, subject to a penalty not exceeding £1
per day for every day of default.
Note : Returns are required only of the
proportion of the premiums properly charge-
able in respect of the Fire Risk during the
time such property was in any Fire District
under the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary.
213 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney,
25th November, 1931.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act
1909-1927.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
** the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales,
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such com-
panies in respect of risks against fire during
the year ending 31st December, 1931, within
the Sydney Fire District and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act 1909-
1927 applies, less any part of such premiums
actually paid by way of reinsurance to any
other insurance companies contributing under
the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the re-
turns is on or before the 31st January, 1932,
subject to a penalty not exceeding Five
pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By Order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary,
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
25tli November, 1931.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
“The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
/
»,v \
r . ~
| mil
util'
yS#
$0
&
s#
BY I XL
ACETYLENE
CITY COMFORTS IN THE COUNTRY!
, Complete Lighting Installations through-
\ out the Home. Economical to Install
\ and Maintain. The hottest gas-flame
\ known for Cooking and Heating.
FREE
To Messrs. H. Jones & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
G.P.O. Box 639 •‘D.” HOBART.
Please send me free booklet “ Modern
Acetylene Lighting and Heating.”
Name
Address
butter is then weighed, placed on the butter-
worker, and salt distributed evenly over the
mass at the rate of about 4oz. to 11b. of
butter, and worked for 15 minutes. (2)
Moisture content can only he ascertained by
analysis, as is done in factories. Take a
sample of butter from the worker and
weigh out 10 grammes on a pair of very
sensitive scales; heat the sample to
evaporate the moisture, then re-weigh. The
difference between the first and second
weights, multiplied by 100 and divided by
the weight taken, 10 grammes, will be the
percentage of moisture in tha gutter.
How was cotton introduced into Australia?
—7473.
Governor King grew plants at Norfolk
Island from seed Phillip had brought from
Rio de Janeiro in 1788. Through lack of
knowledge, this cotton was not treated. An
unenthusiastic Colonial Office discouraged
King’s efforts to grow it in N.S.W. Governor
Darling sent a sample, Sydney-grown, to
London, which inspired a new settler with
West Indies experience to grow the peren-
nial cotton-vine in northern N.S.W. in 1928.
Death stopped his experiments. That year
Robert Dawson, manager of the Aus. Agri-
cultural Co., had an experimental plot, too,
but it disappeared when he was suspended.
The “Australian Almanac” records that in
1831 J. Maclaren, of Sydney, exported three
bags of cotton to Liverpool. Grown spora-
dically from then on, the industry boomed
in Queensland during the U.S. Civil War
(1862-65), but slumped soon after.
(1) In the event of all the tobacco recently
planted , or about to be planted, in Australia
yielding a good crop, is there likely to be
over-production? (2) Would a grower pick-
ing in April be able to market at a fair
price? —73l2.
(1) There is little likelihood of over-
production of good-quality leaf, but there
may be considerable quantities of low-grade
material for which there may be little
demand. (2) Yes, provided the quality is
good.
How to keep parrots away from gardens
and orchards? —7492.
Rosellas, galahs and white cockatoos are
not protected in N.S.W.. but several other
species are. If they are causing trouble,
permission can be obtained from the Chief
Secretary to destroy them. Only practicable
means of controlling them is by shooting.
What districts in N.S.W. are suitable
for citrus-fruit growing, and what area is
planted in those districts? —746s.
Wyong-Gosford, 10,000 acres; Central
North Coast, 1700 acres; Hills district, 6500
acres; Ilawkesbury River, 3700 acres;
inland. 4800 acres.
(1) Can breeding of ducks be made a
profitable side-line on the farm? (2) Best
breed? (3) Usual price per pair other
than at Christmas and Easter? (4) Any
books 07i the subject? —7s4S.
(1) Not as profitable as fowls for egg-
production. A cheap source of food supply
such as restaurant refuse or slaughter-
house offal would assist in making the ven-
ture a success. (2) For egg-production,
Khaki Campbell or Indian Runner ; and for
table purposes, Muscovy. (3) For prime
Muscovies: ducks, 65.; drakes, 12s. per pair.
(4) N.S.W. Agriculture Dept, can supply a
leaflet, and Anthony Hordern and Sons have
issued a publication.
(1) Where can / obtain guinea-fowls?
(2) At what age are they marketable and
price per pair? (3) Are they good layers
and sitters? (4) Any literature published?
—7549.
(1) Try M. Young, Brobenah, Leeton
(N.S.W.), or Bonavcnture poultry farm. Mt.
Druitt. Usual prices are from" 7s. 6d. to
21s. each. (2) Marketable age from six to
eight months. Prices 7s. 6d. to 10s. per
pair. (3) They lay approximately 70 eggs
per hen per year. They will hatch their
eggs if a secluded spot is provided. (4)
Lewis Wright’s “Book of Poultry” deals
with guinea-fowls.
How to make mutton hams? —73s6.
Take 1 hind-quarter mutton, lib. salt,
6oz. brown sugar, loz. saltpetre, 1 grated
nutmeg, loz. pepper. Cut mutton into shape
of ham. Mix the other ingredients, and rub
them into the ham daily until all the mix-
ture has been absorbed, then press the ham
under a heavy weight. Let it lie for 14
to 18 days, turning every 3 days or less
according to the weather, and rubbing well
with the pickle. Then let it drain and
hang up to dry in a kitchen or other suit-
able place. If liked that way, it may be
smoked over a wood fire. Soak for a few
hours before boiling, then put on in cold
water and boil for about 2 hours after it
comes to the boil. These instructions refer
to the hams of large sheep. Merino hams
may take a little less time to boil.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Valerin”: Handling various lots of
sheep, I am satisfied that losses from grass
seed could be minimised by better shearing.
Since. the slump in wool prices “shankings”
are worthless, so the shearer is rarely
requested to take off anything below the
hock; the result is that the sheep’s legs
become a. mass of seed with festering sores.
The same thing applies to the head where
a “lick-and-a-promise” sweep of the machine
suffices. Owners should insist on the
thorough cleaning of points.
“Cooramin”: A blowfly trap may be made
of almost any container—kerosene- or bis-
cuit-tin, cream-can, old meat-safe and so
forth. Cut the top from a tin and cover
with -wire gauze; in the centre of the gauze
let in a funnel-shaped piece of the same
material. 4in. to 6in. wide at the top and
about |in. at the bottom, and 4in. or sin.
deep. Bait with offal or putrid meat and
stand upright. The gauze should be put on
so that it can be easily removed to bait or
empty the trap.
“Ringer”: I’ve had a lot to do with
Brahman-cross cattle (B. 16/12/’3l) in the
Solomons and New Guinea. They have
good and bad points. They are, as far as
I know 7 , tick-proof, but are subject to pleuro
and tuberculosis. The herds I had to do
with had not been properly graded, classed
or culled for years; perhaps that accounts
for the fact that they were all very light
and weedy. They w T ere good doers, and
carried condition when pure Shorthorns
were dying, but were the cussedest animals
to work, and could walk through any free-
ware fence.
“Dimon”: A Victorian farmer, who grow's
herbs on a large scale, turns a few sheep
into the crop whenever it needs weeding. The
jumbuks feed between the rows, eating
thistles and other growths, but drawing the
line at thyme and marjoram. As Australia
imports about £lO,OOO worth of herbs annu-
ally, these crops should be a profitable side-
line.
“The Breaker”: I know a simpler method
than “Dobbin’s” of dealing with greasy-heel
(B. 2/12/’3l). After clipping away the
hair, wash with Condy's crystals and w r arm
water; then apply sulphur and lard mixed
—two parts of the sulphur to three of the
lard. Half a dozen applications will do the
trick.
“Notwen”: If Dobbin’s forelock does not
grow long, a cheap and effective flynet can
be made by cutting off about a foot of his
tail and attaching it to the forelock. Waxed
thread makes the best tying material.
“Dimon”: Old springs of a buggy or
sulky make good shock-breakers for a wheel-
barrow when bolted on to the under-side
of the bearers, and the eyes widened for the
axle. The springs prevent the jarring and
jolting of the arms when the barrow is
being wheeled over stones or rough ground.
“Bill B.”: Kangaroo greenhide is best
for whips, belting laces, stitching horse-
collars or pack-saddles, and many other farm
uses. To prepare a skin, fold it into a small
bundle, and bury it for 48 hours or longer
in loose soil or sand. The test of sufficient
fermentation is whether or not the fur de-
taches easily. When it does, peg out the
skin on a floor and cleanly, with a blunt
implement, scrape off the fur. Then, while
tne skin dries, at intervals brush in a pint
of strong vinegar.
“J. Point”: We should be exporting
canned chicken by the shipload instead of
importing it from Java. Game breeds gen-
erally make the best table birds, but the
hens are such poor layers that it is much
better to cross a game cock with a good
laying heavy breed such as Rhode Island
Reds, Wyandottes and Dorkings. The Indian
Game crossed with any of the breeds named
will produce table birds of the highest pos-
sible quality. But stick to the first crosses of
the two pure breeds, and don’t attempt to
breed from the progeny. Caponising should
also be practised, as you can’t possibly lose
by it—capons make a much bigger gain in
weight for the same quantity of food con-
sumed than cockerels, and are easier to
handle.
“Chooky”: A Ma State poultryman’s
way of keeping the ledger balanced. Com-
bining poultry-keeping with fruit-growing, he
has discarded fixed houses and runs for
small houses with bush-timber runners, like
slides, in the orchard. The chooks are run
in fifties; when the house needs a clean-
out Dobbin is attached, and the whole
outfit is moved without any bother. Feed
costs are low T er, thanks to more green stuff
and insect food, and the birds are much
healthier than when cooped in runs; also
the orchard is less subject to pests, and
the land benefits from the added rich manure.
Practically no fruit is lost. A slide of water
and feed does the round trip daily.
“Gradex” : A simple guide to the capacity
of your fowlhouse. Each bird requires 10
cubic feet of air; thus find the cubic capacity
of the shed (length by breadth by height)
and divide by 10. The result in number of
hens should not be exceeded if you wish
your birds to thrive. Also each hen re-
quires 10 square feet of run, covered, or
20 square feet outdoor.
“Tangaloli: To renovate a worn mattock,
heat it to a good whitish heat in the forge,
hammer back the centre of the face, then
narrow it to the right width. Continue the
process till a good face is made and sharp-
ened. To temper, heat it to a cherry-red
for about 14 inches of the face; then immerse
it in waiter to a depth of about one inch.
This will make it a steely color; the heat
drawing down will bring a straw color over
the steely hue, and there will be a bronze
or pigeon-breast also drawing towards the
point. When the straw color is just about
to go over the point again dip in the water
and cool right off: but while there is much
heat above in the shank do not cool the whole
thing, or it may become brittle. For a cold-
chisel for cutting iron the bronze color should
be arrested just as it reaches the end. For
a chisel for w T ood, let the bronze be almost
gone over and blue appearing behind it.
“Country Pod.”: A lot of water goes to
waste on many farms because tanks attached
to barns, stables and machinery sheds won’t
hold all the, water from the roofs. Shedding
60ft. by 30ft. is a very low estimate for
any farm; an inch of rain falling on that
area represents a catch of 937 gallons. A
two-inch fall and the little tanks arc run-
ning over. For such an area tanks to hold
10,000 gallons w T ould save time and labor
now so often spent in carting very indif-
ferent drinking water during dry spells.
“Bill R.”: When boring posts or maul-
heads, especially if the timber is sappy, with
draw the auger when it shows a tendency
to stick fast; clear the hole of chips and
dip the tool in grease or oil before proceed-
ing. If you neglect this precaution there
w T ill be a broken bit in the hole.
“Karaway”: The country beyond the
Darling has had a phenomenal season, and
(what rarely happens) parts of it have
since been sw 7 ept by bush-fires. Much of the
western N.S.W. grass makes excellent hay,
and the superabundance of the good times,
cut and stacked or put into silos, would
tide over much of the bad times. It is
always advisable, where there is rich growth
and a danger of subsequent fires, to cut
wide strips through it and store the grass.
Those strips would be safety breaks where
fires could be easily checked when outbreaks
occurred. If flats and plains where there
is heavy growth are too bumpy or
strewn with loose stones for the use of
mowing machines, pick the strips before the
grass grows* and run a wide roller over
them. Even if a preliminary harrowing
was necessary it would be worth the trouble.
The prepared strips would always be hay-
fields.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers •
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand. , .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject. ... ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man (24), well educated, city and land
experience N.S.W. and Q’land, wants work, any-
where. Would like job on country newspaper.—
7568.
Printer and lino-operator (21), Vic., wants work
anywhere.—7sB7.
Ex-Digger, three years’ exp. Customs, also news-
paper exp., seeks employment any capacity. Refs.
—7596.
To buy, up-to-date book dealing with silvering of
mirrors. —6199.
To buy flawless quartz crystals and old quartz
spectacle lenses. —7566.
Information Sought.
(1) Where is Rotuma situated? (2)
Population? (3) Area? (4) Who controls
the island? (5) How is it reached by visi-
tors? (6) Staple industry? —7s22.
(1) About 250 miles north of Fiji. (2)
In 1921 (last census), 2300, including
33 Europeans. (3) Principal island, 9000
acres. (4) Fijian Government. A Euro-
pean Commissioner resides on the island.
(5) Burns Philp run an auxiliary schooner
between Levuka and Rotuma. There are
also smaller traders. (6) Copra.
Why has the hare not been such a pest in
Australia as the rabbit? —7517.
It is less prolific, less adaptable to Aus-
tralian conditions; it doesn’t burrow, and
is fairly easily destroyed.
(1) Date of the Mclvor gold robbery tn
VicJ (2) Names of the robbers? (3)
What happened to them? (4) Was the gold
recovered? (5) How much? —7337.
(1) 1853. (2) and (3) Five (out of 12)
were accounted for. John Murphy (or John
Francis) was arrested aboard the Madagas-
car in Port Phillip. Admitting guilt he
turned informer, repented of this and com-
mitted suicide. His brother Jeremiah (or
George), arrested in Queensland, gave infor-
mation, thus escaping punishment. George
Wilson and two ex-convicts, Melville and
Atkins, were tried for murdering the bailed-
up driver, who had died of wounds. They
were hanged on Oct, 3, 1853. (4) and (5)
Gold valued at £5OOO was taken; little was
recovered.
When repotting ferns what are (1.) the
best hind of soil, and (2) best manures to
use?. —7545.
(1) Equal parts of peaty soil and ricn
loam in which is mixed a sprinkling of sand,
leaf-mould and pulverised well-rotted cow
manure. Sieve the soil before putting in the
pots. (2) Use weak liquid manures only;
strong fertilisers may destroy the young
roots. Give the stimulant after the plants
have been well watered.
.The leaves on my violets are turning brown
and falling off. Cause and cure? —7530.
Red spider is the cause. Remove the
affected leaves and spray the plants and
ground with lime-sulphur solution. Put in
fresh strong runners and keep them well
watered.
How to propagate rosemary shrubs? I
want them ready by Anzac Day. —7sl2.
Set small pieces of the plant in pots in
a mixture of sand and loam, and water
regularly. About the end of February place
the pots in a glass frame and remove them
a month later to harden off.
(1) Did Maoriland introduce old-age pen-
sions before any of the Australian States?
(2) Which of the Australian States first
introduced old-age pensions? (3) Were their
schemes based on the M.L. system?. —7slo.
(1) Yes, in 1898. (2) Vic., Jan. 1, 1901.
(3) Yes. Vic. sent a commission across to in-
vestigate the M.L. system. The N.S.W.
pensions, enacted July 1, 1901, were stated
by Premier Lyne to have been copied from
the M.L. scheme “with certain important
modifications.”
(1) How long have Federal civil servants
been getting child endowment? (2) How
much per child per week do they get? (3)
Hoic much does it cost the Commonwealth?
—7508.
(1) Since November, 1920. (2) ss. per
week for each dependent child under 14,
provided it does not bring the remuneration
of the officer above £5OO p.a. (3) Theoreti-
cally, nothing, because in assessing the basic
wage upon which he determines their sal-
aries and wages, the Public Service Arbi-
trator deducts from the rate which other-
wise would be awarded a sum to cover the
cost of endowment.
Can the flying gurnard, sometimes sold in
Sydney among other trawler fish, fly, or is
it mistakenly confused with the true flying
gurnard, which belongs to tropic waters? —
*°What is called in Sydney a flying gurnard
is Pterygotrigla polyommata, and is incap-
able of flight. The true flying gurnard
is Dactyloptena oricntalis , which can leap
from the water and glide rapidly through the
air.
Origin of the custom of tattooing among
natives? What purpose does it serve?- —•
Though the word is Polynesian, the cus-
tom appears to have been almost universal.
Arabs, North and South American Indians,
Chinese, Japanese and Burmese all tattoo.
The original idea probably was to attract the
opposite sex by ornament. The Maori war-
riors used the process to give themselves a
ferocious appearance in battle, but the
women also tattooed to add to their beauty.
In most races it assumes, in the course of
evolution, social or religious significance.
In Polynesia it is begun in or about the
twelfth year, and becomes a mark of
puberty. Among other natives it is a niea .
of recognition, a mark of courage, 01 a sign
of mourning.
Rarest kind of bird in New South Wodes,
district it inhabits and the colors, if pos-
sible? —7308. t . ti
Possibly the red-chested parrakeet. it
is a tiny bird, with a green back, blue head
and face and wings, having a scarlet chest
and yellow abdomen. Formerly it was tan y
abundant in far western N. S. Wales and
Central Australia.
Is jarrah suitable as a cabinet timber?—
T 493
Yes. Any hardwood capable of taking a
polish' is suitable. A very fine jarrah suite
of furniture is on view at the Imperial
Institute in London. The timber finishes a
rich red, and has been used very successfully
for office fittings, billiard-tables, wamscot-
ting, baluster rails and railway-carriage deco-
ration.
(11 Is the koala a tree-living animal, and
is it at home on the ground? (2) Does it
get about much during daytime? (3)
What food does it live on? (4) Do they
live in colonies? (51 How many are born
at the one time? (6) How are the young
carried?- —7496. ...
(1) It is essentially arboreal, and its
movements when it descends to the ground
are awkward and clumsy. (2) It is mam y
nocturnal, though it may sometimes be
seen moving about in the daytime. (3J
Almost exclusively eucalyptus-leaves, but it
descends occasionally in search of otner
vegetation or to dig for roots. (4) they
generally live in pairs. (5) and (6) Only one.
This is very small at first, and is retained
in a pouch ; when it becomes abld to leave
this shelter, it is carried about for some time
clinging to its mother s back or shoulder.
Reading a modern novel set in the Vic-
torian age I came across a reference to a
form of musical composition called the pot-
pourri.” What teas it? —749l.
A name given to a transcription of a
group of well-known airs from some opera,
or even of national or other familiar tunes
having no association with each other, lliese
were connected by a few showy passages
and sometimes there were variations 011 the
different themes. “Olla podrida ” was
another name for the same sort of produc-
tion.
Particulars of three-act play competition
conducted by the Community Playhouse,
Sydney?— 74Bs. i , ~
Plays must be submitted not later than
Feb. ' 20. The winning play will bo
produced at a large city theatre, the author
receiving 50 per cent, of the profits of the
season. Entries must be typewritten and
signed with a nom de plume. The correct
name and address must be placed in an
envelope (on which is written the nom ae
plume ) and forwarded to the president, the
Lyceum Club (Mrs. Muscio), Pitt-street,
Sydney. An entrance fee of 2s. 6d. must
accompany each MS., which should be
addressed'to the Director, Community Play-
house, 264 Pitt-street. E. J. Tait is presi-
dent of the judging committee.
(1) Are stamps still issued in the Cook
Islands? (2) Date of issue? (3) I have
a kd. green illustrating a bird flying over
the sea. What bird is this and is the
stamp of any value? —7480.
(I) Yes, but under the name of Raro-
tonga. (2) February, 1892. (3) The torea,
one of the plover species. Value, from 6d.
to 3s.
(1) I live in New Guinea. Have goat-
skins and kidslcins any market value in
Australia? (2) Any special requirements
in skinning? (3) Will stretching on a
wall exposed to the tropical sun till hard
be sufficient? —7451.
(1) Very little at present. (2) Skin
in the usual manner as soon as pos-
sible after killing. Scrape the skin and
tidy up scraggy bits, then wash well in
cold water, and hang up to drain. Tack
out to a good shape while still damp. (3)
Sun-drying is sufficient for market purposes.
The skins are processed by the tanners who
buy them. Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., 48
Bridge-street, Sydney, handle this kind of
business.
Method of blowing castor oil to increase
its viscosity? —72l9.
Place the oil in a cylindrical vessel fitted
with a steam-coil. Raise temperature slowly
to 150 deg. F., and then commence to blow
air of same temperature through, slowly at
first to avoid frothing, and then more
rapidly. After approximately 12 to 15
honrs of this at above temperatures, in-
crease temperature to approximately 175 deg.
F., and then test for viscosity. If not
heavy enough, continue process until re-
quired viscosity is reached. Provision should
be made to enable cold water to be passed
through steam-coil in case of priming or
frothing.
How to make plaster casts of natural-
history objects for demonstration? —7449.
For objects with minute markings and
striations, cover with a thin powder of
steatite or French chalk. Soften some model-
ling-wax in warm water and apply it to the
object, pressing it into all the little cavities.
Cut off the edge of the wax all round if
the shape of the object necessitates the
mould being in two or more pieces, and let
the wax cool with the object in it until it
is hard enough to bear a repetition of the
operation on the still uncovered surfaces.
The steatite will prevent one piece of the
mould from sticking to the other. It is as
well to remove the original before the wax
becomes quite rigid, or it may be difficult to
extract. Wet the wax moulds to prevent air
bubbles and pour in liquid plaster. Paint
the casts in water-color in a slightly liglita
shade than the original. When dry, steep
the cast in hard paraffin, which will inten-
sify the color, and when cold polish by hand
with cotton-wool and steatite.
What are the cause* of premature clutch
wear in my cart —7401.
The chief causes are (a) resting the foot
on the pedal while driving. This may release
the clutch spring pressure sufficiently to per-
mit the clutch to slip and cause needless
wear of the clutch release bearing and the
clutch disc facings. (b) Lack of clearance
in the clutch pedal. When the pedal is de-
pressed there must be about yin. movement
before it starts to disengage the clutch.
As the clutch facings wear, this clearance
gradually becomes less, and must theietoic
be occasionally chocked. The car should
never be driven without a clearance m the
clutch pedal. ,
(1) Where can I get seeds of Californian
redwoodt (2) Price, post paid for a few
seeds for experiment? (3) Ate Wellington
gigantea, Californian cedar and Californian
redwood the same? —6815. . , t
(1 ) Otto Katzenstem and Co., Atlanta,
Ga., U.S.A. (2) 50 cents (about 45.) pei-
ounce. (3) Three different species. the
Californian redwood is Sequoia sempervirens ;
the Californian cedar Libroccdrus decurrens.
(1) Can the degree of Bachelor of Eco-
nomies be acquired at Sydney Cm by a
course of night study? (2 ) On what nights
are lectures given, and what is the duration
of the course? (3) I have not gamed a
Leaving Certificate Must I pass the mat-
riculation exam.? (4) How many
must be passed in to matriculated (o) buo-
jeets, in addition to economics, necessary to
be studied to gain the degree? (6) Amount
of Uni. fees? (7) When does the Um. re-
open in 1932, and to whom to apply for cm ol-
ment? (8) Is the degree of value to a
public accountant? —7503. , f
(1) Yes (2) Time-table forwarded: four
years. (3) and (4) Yes, in higher Khglwh,
higher French or higher Latin higher histoty
and lower mathematics. (o) and (6) Set
handbook posted. (7) March 14 Enrolments
are made personally, with the Re o istiai.
(8) The degree is of value to anyone en-
gaged in commercial pursuits.
(1) What are the qualification# for mem-
bership of the N.S.W. women police forcer
(2) Would a trained nurse have a gooa
chance of being admitted? (3) Pay'. (4)
Any vacancies f—7263. . ,
(11 Good character, physical fitness ami
suitableness for the performance of the
duties required. (2) Regard would be give
to the fact that she had undergone train-
ing of a disciplinary nature. (3) bame as
that paid to male members of the police
force; commencing rate, 16s. 7d. per day.
(4) There is at present one vacancy and
steps are being taken to fill it-
(1) Population of Northern Ireland? (2)
Religions of people? (3) Docs Northern
Ireland still send members to the House o]
Commons? (4) Who controls taxation
th 7l)~MWnc 30, 1930, 1,244.000. (2) At
the 3926 census the figures were: Roman
Catholics, 420,428; Presbyterians 393,3 <4 ;
Church of England, 338, <24; Methodists,
49,554; others, 54.451. (3) Yes, 13 mem-
bers. (4) The greater part is imposed and
collected by the Imperial authorities; the
balance, after deducting the cost ot collec-
tion and of certain services reserved to the
control of the Imperial Parliament, is paid
over to Northern Ireland s exchequer.
Northern Ireland makes a contribution to
the cost of Imperial services.
(1) What is Ohm's law? (2) What is
the definition of the ohm? (3) Origin of
the name? —7472.
(1) That the strength of a steady cur-
rent of electricity, flowing round a circuit
or through a resistance, is directly propor-
tional to the voltage applied to that cir-
cuit or resistance and inversely proportional
to the resistance of that circuit or resistance.
Thus, if we apply 6 volts to an electric
lamp whose resistance is 3 ohms, a current
of 6 divided by 3, or 2 amperes will flow
through that lamp. (2) The ohm is the
unit of electrical resistance. It is tne
resistance offered to the flow of an electiic
current by a column of mercury 14.40-l
grammes in mass and having a const am
cross-sectional area, and a , o , le il gtll niim
106.3cm5. at 32 degrees F. (3) w. Ohm
was a German physicist, born liS<,
1854.
(1) How did Eyre, the explorer, spend
his years after leaving Australia. {-,)
What was the scandal with which he was
connected in the West Indies .- i 486.
(1) In 1845 he went back to England for
his health’s sake. He afterwards held official
positions in M.L., St. Vincent and the Lee-
ward Islands, and in 1864 became Governor
of Jamaica. (2) While Governor of
Jamaica, in 1865. he irregularly hanged a
negro member of the local legislature m the
course of suppressing a mutiny that com-
menced with a massacre of white residents.
He was reprimanded and recalled, but atter
two trials was held to have been justified, in
his action. Disraeli allotted him the pension
due to a retired colonial Governor, and he
lived in seclusion from that time until Ins
death on November 30, 1901, at the age
of 86.
(1) What causes appendicitis? (2) What
arc the symptoms? (3) Is an opeiation
necessary in all cases? (4) Who was the
discoverer of appendicitis? —7459.
(3) Inflammation, generally caused by
some foreign matter entering the appendix.
(2) Typical symptoms of acute cases are
sudden abdominal pain, often followed by
vomiting; fever of about lOOdeg.; quickened
pulse, furred dry tongue, nausea, and (often)
constipation. Chronic cases suffer from gen-
eral symptoms of indigestion, and have
nagging pains in the abdomen, generally on
the right side. (3) Operation is advised by
practically all doctors, and most think that
the earlier the operation the greater the
chance of recovery. (4) Can’t say. It was
always present, though wrongly ascribed to
other causes. King Edward was one of the
first to undergo an appendix operation.
Brief Answers.
W. E. Gundy : B cannot score for a run
with his second three, or with his two, the run
having been completed by the playing of A’s four.
All B can score is three for his ace and one for last
card T. 8.: Charcoal Traction Engineers, Ltd.,
118-124 Toorak-road, South Yarra (Vic.) . . • .G.H.N..
(1) Only white paint can be changed to cieam.
(2) Yes,* but you can buy it cheaper than you could
make it for R.M.D.: Dust the bird over with
insecticide....C.M.A.: Many incubators will be found
satisfactory. Communicate with agents for the air-gas
machine and ask if they have an adjustable burn*,
that may be fitted to the heater of an lncubato,..
J.D.S.: Quite possible to teach yourself the rudiments.
Buy a “Tutor” at any large music-shop. .. .N.J.:
Sydney Technological Museum doesn’t employ cadets.
Vacancies on the staff are filled by the Public
Service Board and are advertised in the daily press.
.... S.W.: In the circumstances you cannot bring
compulsion to bear on the Public Trustee to pay
maintenance. What he stated is coriect... .H.E.T..
Get in touch with David Moore, editor, the Dog
World,” Dalley-street, Sydney R.S.: (1) Yes, if
£2OOO in hand. (2) Yes. (3) No. (4) Yes, :f
nothing has been borrowed on it... .A.J.S.: Consult
a competent teacher. (2) See Manual published
by the Australian Music Examinations Board
R.C.8.: “Points of the Horse” (635.) and
“Veterinary Notes for Horse Owners,” by Capt. M.
H. Hayes (275.), Angus and Robertson. .. .A.C.M.K.:
Never heard of any university where such a practice
is known.... A.F.S. '• Sec. Fur Farmers Assoc., 144
Dalhousie-street, Haberfield, Sydney... .J.C.: (1)
Probably the reference is to the Ejectments Post-
ponement Act, which provides that, if the landlord
of any dwelling-house let at £3 per week or less
applies for an ejectment order, the Court, on
proof that unemployment is the cause of the non-
payment, shall postpone the ejectment order for
not less than three months. The tenant cannot,
however, hand over the premises to a new tenant
without your consent. (2) If sued in the Small
Debts Court, costs would be moderate... .W.A.: (1)
Under the Moratorium Act (N.S.W.) a mortgagee
cannot, without leave of the Court, call up the
whole or any part of the principal sum till April
30, 1933. (2) The Interest Reduction Act provides
that an obligation to pay interest is satisfied by
payment of existing amount of interest “less four
shillings and sixpence in every pound,” with a
minimum of 5 per cent W.A. (Caulfield, Vic.) :
Act extends beyond real estate. A mortgage as
defined by it means any instrument “whereby security
for payment of moneys or for the performance of
any contract is granted over land or chattels or
any interest therein respectively”. .. .S.J. : It is
immaterial so far as the validity of the cheque is
concerned, but the use of the capital letter is incor-
rect R.C.H.: Sydney ’buses are mostly of an
unsuitable type for the purpose required. Your
request has been handed on to two members who
may have something suitable a little later when the
position is definite. . . .N.J.B. : Write John T. Dingle,
Secretary, Institute of Family Relations, 91 Phillip-
street, Sydney... .R.M.K. :To reduce scratches on a
lens, procure a quantity of jewellers’ rouge, called
also Paris red, of fine, soft quality; take a piece
of chamois or old glove leather, moisten in strong
soapsuds, pick up a little rouge on the wet surface,
and rub the glass. Wash off with warm soapy
water, and rinse in cold. .. .F.T.8.: Under-Sec.,
Agriculture Dept., Sydney... .M.A.H.: Jones and
Co., Wharf, Hobart ; Port Huon Fruitgrowers’ Assoc.,
Davey-street. Hobart; Terry and Penny, Bushy Park,
Tas. ; 11. Ashton Warner, New Norfolk, Tas. ; Sec.
Tas. Hopgrowers, Ltd., 115 Macquarie-street, Hobart.
L.E.P.: (1) There is no such word. (2) Don’t
know of a George Peel who was prominent in Aus-
tralian history. A Thomas Peel established a settle-
ment in W.A., which failed. (3) Too large an order.
Get a book on cyphers. (4) Try Swains, 123 Pitt-
street, Sydney. . . .A.F.: The council may issue a sum-
mons for the amount of rates due and, if you refuse
to satisfy a judgment, may put a bailiff in. It can
alternatively sell the land if it is satisfied that the sale
will realise sufficient to cover its demand. .. .J.D.:
(1) In the case of the mortgage the Interest
Reduction Act 1931 applies. Interest is reduced
by 4s. 6d. in the £. (2) and (3) The Reduction
of Rents Act 1931 does not apply in respect of
a lease of agricultural land to which the Agricultural
Lessees’ Relief Act 1931 is applicable. Try the local
Land Board. (4) Yes, so far as demanding payment,
the exercise of a power of sale, foreclosure, etc.,
are concerned... .W.G.G.: (1) None that we are
aware of. (2) Cannot recall any book devoted
specifically to that subject, but incidental references
to it are contained in many medical works and
treatises on eugenics. (3) There have been cases of
mental deficiency among marriages of first cousins,
but not in such proportion as to indicate them to
be the direct result of such unions T.H.8.: (1)
“Real estate” means lands and interests therein,
and “personal estate’ ’ goods and chattels and
interests therein. (2) The Federal Act provides foi
exemption from duty of charitable, religious, educa-
tional, scientific and other similar bequests. This
is not applicable to the State. (3) 'the death of
the trustee has no relation to the payment of probate
duty. That duty is paid when the testator’s will
is proved. The death of one of the children does
not affect the claims of the surviving children.
Usually provision is made in the will that the shaie
which would have gone to the deceased child had
he lived shall go to his children J-R.: (1)
Ingento camera dressing, 3s. 6d., postage about 9d.,
from Harringtons, 386 George-street, Sydney. (2)
March 28, 1923, Gulf of Carpentaria J.F.N.: (1)
Will consider and criticise anything you care to
send. (2) Flat. (3) Submit it to a reliable person
in the city for identification. Consult our Perth
office P.R.: (1) Silver frost, 2d. a box, from all
suppliers of ticket-writing materials. (2) No, not
without special apparatus; and not worth the
trouble.... M.D.: (1) Carborundum is used, not a
metal alloy. (2) Suppliers of engineers’ stores; or
direct from W. M. Curwen and Co., London....
L.G.: Can’t express an opinion without knowing the
facts. It’s a matter of evidence P.F.: Whether
vou renew or not, you cannot demand payment of
the principal without the authority of the Court
during the continuance of the moratorium. . • • 1.G..
(1) Assuming the original lease to B to be still
running, you must look to him and not to A, with
whom you have no legal relationship under the
lease. The bill of sale and stock mortgage are
good against B only. (2) B is the owner so far
as you ar e concerned. (3) Debts contracted by a
legally constituted partnership can be recovered by
its creditors W.D.H.: Anything left directly to
him would fall into the body of his estate and so
be answerable for his debts. Neither the wife’s
separate estate nor the estates of the children could
be reached by his creditors... .C.L.F.: A wife may,
in Queensland, present a petition to the Court for
the dissolution of marriage on the ground of
“adultory coupled with desertion without reasonable
excuse for two years or upwards” H. J.: If ade-
quate provision was not made for the daughter's
maintenance and education, the Equity Court could
order provision to be made for her out of the estate.
.... (Many others mailed.)


ALIEN CORN
By G.M. Turnbull
CHAPTER XXVI.
“T MUST say, Freddie,” Huntley observed,
| “that I’m exceedingly curious to know
how you worked the oracle at Nataroa.”
Chisholm, in his capacity of warden of
H. M. prison at Aikoroa, was entering in
the register the names of twenty chastened
and badly frightened mountain gentlemen
committed to his care that morning on
the Resident Magistrate’s warrant.
He looked up and rubbed the side of his
nose with an exceedingly inky forefinger.
“Inasmuch,” he responded vaguely, “as to
which, R.M.? And how?”
Huntley smiled. “Well,” he explained,
“the old man is enormously grateful to
Calvert for being such a damned good
fellow, and I’ve gathered from Marian that
she has been most properly and vulgarly
—er —jilted. But”—he regarded Chisholm
with steady scrutiny—“l’m damned if I
fit you into the picture anywhere.”
“Don’t try, R.M.,” Chisholm advised him
with a grin. Then, casually, but at con-
siderable length, he gave Huntley the news
of the last few weeks. There had been a
murder at Maraguna. Corporal Labasi had
done good work rounding up and arresting
the culprit. A woman had been taken by a
crocodile at Taunamani. It was high time
the people threw a bridge over the creek
there. The crossing was a death-trap. A
prisoner had broken an arm felling scrub.
The bone had knitted well—considering.
He had had to manacle and leg-iron the
patient to prevent his interfering with the
splints. A crowd of Modari bucks, carried
away by their emotions at an inter-village
dance, had thrown spears at their guests,
but everything was O.K. now. There had
been a lot of rain and copra was down
fifteen shillings a ton.
Impatient and a little bewildered, Hunt-
ley listened to him.
“There are times,” he put in, when Chis-
holm paused for breath, “when the temp-
tation to kick you lustily in the rear is
almost irresistible. Come across with it,
Freddie! You had an interesting and
amusing and highly diverting time with
Calvert, laddie, I’ll be bound. Is there any
reason why I should not be let in on the
joke?”
Chisholm responded weakly, vaguely, to
Huntley’s smile, but did not answer his
question.
“Of course,” Huntley went on, “I dis-
cerned your hand in those two letters which
arrived so mysteriously at Nataroa in the
Maipua mail. You are learning to write
most excellent officialese, Freddie. More-
over, the envelopes were addressed on that
cranky old typewriter of yours.”
“Shrewd,” Chisholm amiably conceded,
“pretty shrewd. I hand you that, R.M.”
They looked at each other.
“Where is Calvert, Freddie?”
“At Baramata, I fancy. Waiting for the
next steamer south.”
“Is he—er—leaving us for good?”
“Oh no. At least, I rather fancy not.”
“H’m!” Huntley’s gaze wandered to
Chisholm’s guileless features while he pon-
dered this. “I gather,” he said at length,
“that I am not expected to ask questions.
If I understand the position thoroughly,
you’d much rather I didn’t.”
Chisholm nodded brightly. “Correct, old
man. Sorry, you know, ’n’ all that.”
Whereupon he grinned cheerfully at
Huntley, and, taking up his pen, lapsed
into solemn, blank-faced silence.
And with that Huntley had to be content.
Saturday came. Huntley decided that,
for once, the afternoon-should be a holiday
in fact as well as in theory. Accordingly,
lunch over, he ripped the covers off a
formidable bundle of newspapers, arranged
each issue in order of date and sought the
residency’s most comfortable lounge. There
was a cushion beneath his head, a gong at
his elbow, and Gaduari, the head boy—grave,
solemn-faced, attentive—stood in the offing,
waiting for the nod that would dismiss him.
The warm wind of the monsoon was blow-
ing softly, stirring the palm-fronds and
rippling the sun-kissed waters of the
lagoon so that they seemed to flash with
light. It would be very pleasant, Huntley
reflected, to read a little, doze a little,
smoke a little; to tap the gong and be
assured of a prompt response, to revel in
the comforts of his permanent establish-
ment. After the fatigue and pain and peril
of the steaming jungle a.nd the higher alti-
tudes, he was in a mood to make of com-
monplaces the finer elegancies of life.
“Aren’t you taking the whaler, Freddie?”
he called out indolently from behind his
paper. “With this breeze, you’ll get a
good slant coming and going.”
He understood from Chisholm’s grunt
that his assistant preferred to walk. There
was an odd sort of depressed gaiety about
Chisholm when, a few minutes later, he
emerged from his room. The expression
on his face alternated between an uneasy
grin and a look that was almost glum
They had been rowing again, Huntley
decided. Silly, wilful, impetuous young
idiots 1 What the deuce was there to
quarrel about? Marian had been very,
very casual the other day. He had en-
~^Uma^FiddKSSS
A ghe had diverted the converS ation
_ and not ski lf u l ly at that. Freddie
WQuld w to take a determined stand
with the lagg if he were ever to reC apture
hand
chisholm was carrying a light suitcase,
He had atti _ ed himself with meticulous
care, but, somehow, his dominant, debonair
a * r gat uneas ji y upon k j m
need not j ook for * you to-ni«-ht ”
Huntley remarke d with an eye on the "bag.
s i nC erely hope not, old chap,” Chis-
ko j m answe red. “But one never can tell,”
he added crypt i cal i y-
Huntley smiled at him with affectionate
indulgence. Marian was leading the lad a
m dance, the m inx! He was a
thoroughly ’ od feUow . why the devil
didn > t Marian play up to him?
Huntley was vaguely worried when, after
dbsholm had departed from Nataroa, he
re t umed to his newspapers. He discovered
himself reading and re-reading the open-
n g paragraph of a political editorial with
j n tense concentration, but perversely his
m jnd’s eye dwelt on Marian. And he con-
s j d ered another matter—considered it
briefly, and dismissed it. Saroni had been
unnerved overwrought by the frightful
p kys j ca l ordeal a barbarous native custom
kad j m p o sed upon her. Nevertheless, he
eX p er j enced a secret relief in the knowdedge
that Loa, the sergeant’s wife, had taken
the poor wretch in hand and was keeping
her under observation. It was possible,
though hardly probable, that Saroni—hate
for Marian in her heart, and a gnawing,
biting craving for revenge—might seek to
do the white girl an injury. Such things
had happened, and would happen again,
He was profoundly sorry for Saroni. And,
if he was not careful, he would end by
being profoundly sorry for himself. He
was hearing the quick tapping of Marian’s
heels, the croon in her voice when she had
welcomed him back from the hills, all the
trim, dainty elusiveness of her. He was
shocked, ashamed, humiliated by the reve-
latory knowledge that always she would
fill his mind and heart.
Dispiritedly he tossed the newspaper aside
and surrendered himself to his thoughts,
The sun was swinging swiftly down into
the west when Chisholm hurriedly mounted
the steps,
“Back so soon?” Huntley said tritely,
and smiled. But Chisholm did not smile.
His eyes were hot; there was a tight, tired
look about his mouth,
“You’re wanted, old man,” be blurted
out. “At Nataroa. Marian is not—not
well.”
His eyes flicked at Huntley’s face and
were quickly withdrawn. “She is asking
for you, Jim.”
“ For me?” Huntley’s voice was muted m
° CffiKm nodded. “She’s been feeling
below par for a long time. To-day, she s
-she’s”-
What is wrong with her? Fever?
, “The old man seems to think it might
he fever. I dont know. She s queer, Jim
-she’s damned queer.”
Huntley got up steadily and went into
his room. Presently he came back cairymg
a portable medicine-chest and a well-
thumbed handbook of tropical medicine.
“Look here, Freddie,” he said on a sud-
den impulse. “You’ve been infernally
secretive of late. I’m not holding it against
you, son; in fact, I’m respecting you for
it. What’s behind it all? Have you been
upsetting the kid? Have you had a bust
up?”
Chisholm stood curiously still. “We’re
always having a go m. I’ve asked her to
marry me and—and—but what the hell does
that matter?”
His hands moved restlessly; he shifted
about on his feet. It came to Huntley
wfith something of a shock that Freddie’s
shell of sophistication had been rudely
pierced; that the man of the world had sud-
denly become a frightened boy.
“She’s saying the queerest things, Jim.”
“What sort of things? You mean she’s
delirious?”
“I don’t know. Neither her dad nor I
can make sense of it. She’s terrified of
something—something queer, fishy—and
that damned trull of Calvert’s is mixed up
in it somewhere.”
“Humph!” Huntley grunted. “A case of
nerves, obviously. She has been carrying a
burden far too heavy for young shoulders,
Freddie; now she is suffering the inevitable
reaction.”
He snapped open the medicine chest and
critically inspected its neat array of bottles.
“You needn’t come with me, Freddie.
Send Gibara after me with this.”
Chisholm nodded dully and went in search
of the sergeant.
Oddly, unaccountably, a strange exalta-
tion hummed within Huntley’s breast as
he hastened along the shadowy track to
Nataroa. Marian had had an attack of
nerves, complicated, perhaps, by a little
fever. Nothing more. But she had turned
to him, sent for him! He thrilled at the
recurring thought, of her dependence on his
maturer strength and knowledge. Then, as
a wave having mounted to its crest begins
to recede, so his exhilaration left him.
Maturity, wisdom, experience—what were
these weighed against a. youth that was
no longer his?
There was no response to his hail when
he came to the house. The sight of Charlie
Durrant standing forlornly on the verandah
did nothing to dissipate the presage of ill
that suddenly invaded him. The old man’s
face was grey, drawn. He was older—older
by ten years.
Marian lay on a lounge at the end of
the verandah. Her appearance sent a cold
numbness through Huntley. Her face was
the color of old ivory. It was tense, rigid
and absolutely devoid of expression, and
something of its fullness had gone. Her
eyes, dilated and unnaturally luminous,
were set in a fixed, vacant stare.
Painfully she lifted her head as Huntley
bent over her, and for a second a thin, un-
certain smile quirked the corners of her
mouth. Her lips began to move. He had
to strain his ears to catch her low, fright-
ened whisper. What was she saying? What
was she trying to say, rather?
A name caught his ear. He bent lower.
Again, like asthmatic breathing, she tried
to speak. Her fingers plucked at his sleeve.
He looked searchingly into her eyes. They
were wide with a horrible, abject fear.
Very gently he took her hand in his. Only
the faintest pressure of the fingers re-
sponded to the warm clasp of his. His ear
was close to her lips. He was listening
with every nerve strung tight. What was
she saying? What was it? Saroni?
Abruptly he straightened himself. Marian
sank back with a quivering sigh in an atti-
tude of complete exhaustion and, ere her
eyes closed, they_held a look of appeal that
cut him to the heart.
“How long has she been like this,
Charlie?” he asked, low-voiced.
Durrant’s hands were playing with a
decanter. Tremblingly he withdrew the cut-
glass stopper.
“None of that, Charlie!” Huntley
snapped.
The stopper clattered to the floor. Dur-
rant passed his tongue over lips gone sud-
denly dry.
“I’ve "tried everything I know—every-
thing I’ve heard of,” he muttered. “She
just lies there, eating nothing, saying no-
thing, as if all her vital energy were oozing
away. I’ve pleaded with her, argued with
her, tried to shock her out of her lethargy.”
His voice trailed off in an incoherent, chok-
ing sound.
“How long has she been like this?”
Huntley patiently repeated.
“She fainted this afternoon, Jim. She
has never done that in her life before. She’s
not the fainting kind, not Marian. Before
that, she was saying the wildest things”
“But how long has she been ill?” Hunt-
ley cut in again.
“She was upset and queer the day you
came, Jim. Monday, wasn’t it—or Tuesday?
I forget. After you left she didn’t seem to
be herself. Quiet, you know, and listless.
And she has gradually been becoming worse.
And now —this! My God!”
Huntley’s frown faded into a strange ex-
pression of perplexity. In his mind a
question was forming—a question he was
afraid to put into definite thought. Almost
he doubted that he had heard Marian
breathe Saroni’s name.
“We must get her into Baramata with-
out delay,” he heard himself saying. “She
is clearly a case for a doctor.” He bit on
his lower lip and eyed Durrant covertly.
“Your houseboys are all natives of Aikoroa,
are they not?”
Durrant nodded dully, uncomprehend-
ingly.
“Get rid of them, Charlie. At once.
Pass them out into the working gang from
now on. I’ll send the sergeant for Gaduari
and a couple of police orderlies. Your boys
sleep off the kitchen, don’t they? Toss
’em out now—bag and baggage.”
He beckoned to Sergeant Gibara, who stood
waiting below. The sergeant’s attention
seemed to wander as Huntley rapidly whis-
pered to him in Motuan. His glance roved
over Huntley’s face, over Durrant’s, and
came to rest on the still figure of the sick
girl at the end of the verandah. Instantly
he stiffened as though an electric current
had passed through his body. His face
went grey. Irritably, Huntley repeated his
orders.
“Whaleboat, sah. Daylight, sah—yessah,’
Gibara muttered. “Yessah, I savee, sah.
Gaduari, sah. Two policemen, yessah.”
He saluted, but with nothing of his cus-
tomary smartness. He backed away slowly,
fearfully, and his eyes never left the still
figure on the lounge.
“What do you think, Jim?” Durrant
croaked. “It isn’t natural for a strong,
athletic girl like Marian to go off like this.
It can’t be fever —not any sort of malaria
I’ve ever encountered. What ails the child,
Jim?”
“I don’t know, Charlie,” Huntley answered
earnestly. “Honestly, I don’t know, old
friend.”
Outwardly he was quite calm, but in-
wardly he was sick with dread. He turned
away lest Charlie Durrant should read the
suspicion in his mind.
It was late when Huntley decided to turn
in. Before seeking his room he made a
round of the house, stationing an armed
guard at each entrance. He drew a long,
whistling breath when he entered his bed-
room. There was an automatic pistol, his
own, lying on the dressing-table. He heard
a faint tap on the window; there sounded
a deferential cough, and heavy, labored
breathing. Huntley thrust out his head.
“Taubada!” The voice was Sergeant
Gibara’s. “I want to talk.”
“Be brief, Sergeant,” Huntley replied.
“My eyes are heavy and my limbs weary.”
“Not here. Taubada,” Gibara muttered
hoarsely. “I have a fear, Taubada, of
curious ears.”
This is a pic-
ture of Mrs.
Drake-Brockman,
author of The
Bulletin’s next
serial, whose first
chapters will
appear on Janu-
ary 20. “B lu e
North” is a story
of Wentralia, and
the period is the
middle of last
century. Open-
ing in Perth , and
Fremantle, it
soon moves on to
the North —the
“blue North” —
which perhaps
not another
woman in the
world has studied
more or knows so
well as Mrs.
Drake-Brockman.
Born in Perth,
the only daughter
of the lata M. E.
and Dr. Roberta
Jull, she was edu-
cated in Australia
and Scotland,
and set out in life
with the intention
of becoming a
portrait - painter
—she was one of
the most brilliant
pupils of the late
Henri van Raalte.
But before she had fully embarked on her art career she married Major Geoffrey
Drake-Brockman, M.C., Westralian Government Commissioner of the Nor’-West, and
went up into his vast territory with him. For five years she remained there ,
travelling the length and breadth of the country, much of it unsettled, some of it still
unexplored, with the pearling port of Broome as headquarters—another and infinitely
more exciting sort of career. Into this story of “Blue North” Mrs. Drake-Brockman
has woven much of her exceptionally intimate knowledge of the vastly picturesque
Nor’-Westralian coast and of its pearling industry; arid altogether the serial will be
found to be something quite out of the ordinary. It opens on January 20.


1
■
Sr
M
i!
«
FAMILY WEUBEINC
WITH ENO
To be really happy and healthy, children,
even more than adults, depend on com-
plete and punctual elimination of the
body’s waste. A dash of Eno’s “Fruit Salt”
in a glass of water will ensure that all
poisonous waste is dismissed from their
systems, gently, naturally and thoroughly
Eno contains nothing harsh or drastic—
that is why it is as good for children as
for adults. And they welcome the morn-
ing glass of Eno once they have learned
what a pleasant bubbly drink it is* Never
be without Eno’s “Fruit Salt” in the
house* It has the endorsement of count-
less healthy people all over the world.
But be sure you do get Eno’s “ Fruit Salt”
’gistcredtrade marks. Sales Agents: ißritish tHarold 9v 9Utckie & Go. £td., Sydney
c&he words €>no and '"SPruit Salt” are re
Au.2a
..iivs unw
His voice was insistent, his demeanor
compelling. Huntley, without further to
do. climbed through the window and
dropped to the ground. The moon was
riding high, serene in a cloudless sky, and
he needed no other light as he followed
Gibara to a secluded corner of the garden.
“Taubada,” the sergeant opened abruptly,
“the sinabada should not have shown fear.”
“Fear!” Huntley exclaimed. “What,
exactly, are you getting at?”
“You and I have seen many strong men
wither up and die, Taubada, like grass
smitten by the sun—but always they have
shown great fear. Is it not so, Taubada?”
Huntley’s heart seemed to skip a beat.
Nevertheless, he stared coldly at Gibara
and there was contempt in his eyes.
“What the devil are you talking about?
I think your head is stupid from the chew-
ing of much betel-nut. Go to your sleeping-
mat, and have done with talk fit only for
babes and foolish women.”
He turned away.
“Taubada.” Gibara’s voice was thick,
throaty. “I am your friend, and friend to
the young sinabada. And my belly is sick
with a great fear.”
Huntley halted, undecided.
“Hear me, Taubada, for a time will come
when words are of no avail. If to-night,
you, who are a white man, do not act with
swiftness, as the moon dies with the dying
month, so will the young sinabada surely
die.”
Huntley stiffened where he stood. His
wild guess was right then! Not for nothing
had he been thinking of Maragi’s bag. He
thrust his face close to the sergeant’s.
“What the hell is the game, Sergeant?”
he hissed. “Are you trying to tell me that
which I already know? Is this your way
of telling me that Miss Durrant is being
slowly poisoned?”
Gibara shrugged. “Maybe, Taubada.
Who knows? And, knowing, who can tell?
We of New Guinea call it pourri-pourri.”
For a moment master and man stared at
each other. Gibara’s face was set like a
mask carved in ebony, but his eyes were
smouldering pools of fire. It was the white
man who turned away first.
“A sickness of the head has come upon
you, Sergeant,” he declared. His eyes were
contemptuous in their regard. Stubbornly
Gibara held his ground. “Have done,
Sergeant, your words are the words of a
fool.”
In spite of his disdainful words, a spasm
of disgust shook him, disgust that was also
horror. He fought off a fear—dark, hor-
rible, not to be thought of—that began
slowly to take shape in some remote cell
of his brain; shook it off with an effort.
It was absurd; utterly ridiculous. It was
madness even to permit his well-ordered
white man’s mind to play with the fantastic
idea that a filthy nigger sorcerer could unr
leash and direct mysterious, invisible forces
and.... let him shake off this nonsense
once and for all! Was he going mad?
“Maragi was hidden in the grass when
Saroni cursed the sinabada.” The ser-
geant’s breath rattled in his throat, but
doggedly he continued. “Maragi of the
One Eye, Taubada. He pointed the bone,
summoning the unseen Potent Ones with
lips to which no words known to man came.
And the young sinabada wept bitterly, re-
vealing a fear most great. Without fear
all men know there can be n 0.... You will
come, sah?”
A chill crept into Huntley’s spine. He
quivered as though raw in every nerve.
He had seen strong men wither up and die,
the prey of powers unknown and un-
knowable, yet more real to the victims than
anything that could be seen by eye or
touched by hand. He had experienced in
his brief contracts with Maragi a creeping,
sinister sense of something—something un-
thinkable, unknowable, yet subtly charged
with evil. He smiled to himself. He was
certainly becoming a little touched. Still,
there could be no doubt that there was
mischief afoot. And it was clearly his duty
to investigate.
“You will come, Taubada? Hasten,
Taubada, while the moon is yet high.”
Huntley gritted his teeth. In spite of his
mental protestations he was wrestling with
a fearful conviction that, degree by degree,
was forcing itself into his unwilling mind.
“Wait for me, Sergeant,” he muttered.
“I have a mind to—Lord, what an unmiti-
gated ass, I am!” he told the star-sprinkled
heavens.
Cautiously, silently, he achieved his bed-
room. He could discern a blurred shape
that was the guard, standing immobile at
the steps. Flesh and blood, bolts and bars,
rifles and bayonets—of what avail were
these against
“Steady, laddie,” Huntley muttered, “or
you’ll certainly qualify for admission to a
psycopathic ward.”
He could hear Charlie Dun-ant restlessly
pacing back and forth. It would be better,
perhaps, if he slipped away unobserved. If
he even so much as hinted at what was
toward, Charlie’s confidence in him would
be gone.
And to-morrow it would be an excellent
plan to lodge an urgent application for
leave. A man could stay too long in New
Guinea, he told himself savagely.
He rejoined Gibara in the garden. He
was patting something that made an omin-
ous bulge under his left armpit.
The sergeant’s eyes gleamed with an un-
holy satisfaction.
“Ia!” he growled. “To the village first,
Taubada. And, after, we shall see.”
A thick, uncanny silence brooded over
Aikoroa —a silence that was not a silence.
Mosquitoes droned, foliage, caressed by
the faint breath of the night breeze, made
a dry rustling; there was a whirring of un-
seen wings, a chirping of insects, a croaking
of tree-frogs and the stertorous breathing
of men and women deep in slumber. The
moon, fantastically theatrical, spread an
inlay of silver on the lagoon waters; it
drenched the drab village in alluring
beauty; it threw into relief the distant hills
that loomed against the enchanted sky.
Huntley and Sergeant Gibara hid them-
selves in the long grass and settled down
to wait.
An hour passed. They lay with cramped
muscles listening with straining ears for
any sound other than the shivering of the
leaves and the familiar nocturnal insect
chorus of the bush, watching with intent,
unwavering gaze the hut of Maragi of the
One Eye.
Huntley had no very clear idea of what
he expected to see nor what he expected to
discover. Of one thing only he was very
certain—the threat of peril that overhung
Marian. Now that he had time to reflect,
simply and without prejudice, the absurdity
of his conduct struck him afresh. He told
himself that he was a thoroughly normal,
well-balanced, clear-thinking white man;
yet he had allowed himself to be strung
to a pitch of nerve-wracking apprehension
by a story—a suggestion, rather—he would
laugh at as incredibly stupid and childish
in the clear light of day. An involuntary
expression of disgust broke on his lips, and
he half rose.
Then a memory of Marian flooded his
brain. It needed no expert eye to see
that the child was in hazardous plight. She
was so pitiably weak, so fragile. She was
sinking, helpless, in the grip of something
dark, mysterious, menacing, of a dreadful,
paralysing fear. Of what? He lay back
again, swearing softly. Could there after
all be something, some underlying grain of
truth in the preposterous stories of the
supernatural all natives implicitly believe?
ln God’s name, what was he thinking
about? There were poisons in New Guinea
unknown to toxicologists—poisons derived
from the bladders of fish, of reptiles; vege-
table poisons, mineral poisons; there was
that deadly concoction of powdered bam-
boo in solution. Any liquid would do
tea, coffee, water. Marian was being
poisoned. Some unknown lethal drug was
being administered—by the house boys,
terrified into obedience by Maragi of the
One Eye. Pourri-pourri—what utter, drivel-
ling rot!
“H’st!”
He felt Gibara stiffen, saw his nostrils
quivering. An expectant quiver ran down
Huntley’s spine. A wavering shape, form-
less as a shadow, had detached itself from
the sorcerer’s hut.
“Maragi!” grunted Sergeant Gibara.
(To be concluded next week.)
In the Mirror.
Death’s at the door,
Half-devil, half-ape,
Devil in spirit
And ape-like in shape.
Death’s at the door!
Misty white woman back there in the glass,
Life’s like a layer of dew on the grass,
So swiftly ’twill pass.
Count all your virtues and then firmly set
A pearl on a thread for each one; nor forget
To tally each sin with a dull bead of jet.
Deck yourself then like a gay dancing-girl,
Letting these necklaces round your throat
curl.
Measure them, matching black bead with
white pearl.
Measure and cheat not! Too late this chill
night,
To shorten the ebon, or lengthen the white.
Which loop is longer, the dark or the light?
Let your eyes answer me, are they dew-
clear
Or clouded with fear?
Better, far better a gesture of scorn.
Mark your brave heart with a rose lately
shorn
Of ev’ry sharp thorn.
Sink with feigned ease on the downy divan,
Cushioned arm-high with bright scarlet and
tan.
Laugh and forget if you can —if you can.
How the door shudders again and again!
Think you this otic night ’twill steadfast
remain,
Or break ’neath the strain?
Oh, you have guessed all its bolts are but
vain.
Death’s at the door
With heart black as thunder;
See on the floor
His paw stretches under;
See his sharp claw —
’Twill tear you asunder!
Misty-white woman, the hours will soon
pass,
Life’s like a lightly-blown breath on the glass
Or dew on the grass!
Poor trembling one, though your courage is
spent,
Not one word starward to-night have you sent,
Are you so pure that you need not repent?
Clasp your white beads, woman, if words
you lack.
Hopeless ! They’re tangled and twined with
the black!
Would they be all pale if time were put
back ?
Thread them defiantly, then, through your
hair;
Walk round the room with a gay, jaunty
air;
Cast from your eyes that deep shade of
despair;
Everyone’s life must be marred by some
flaw.
Be not afraid of death’s wide, hungry jaw,
Flame of his breath or red lines from his
claw.
Nor let lurking fear
Make your heart pant ’neath the rose’s dark
smear.
Dimmer, more distant, your filmy form
grows,
Till I discern but the red of the rose....
Chill through the doorway an icy wind blows.
N.S.W.
EILEEN PRINCE.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
This Page was wrong about Greenline for
the Carrington Stakes at Randwick, though
right about Spearman for Tatt.’s Club Cup.
Perhaps Leslie Barnett's Greenstead gelding
is "not quite the Greenline of 1929-30”;
still he was good enough to carry lOst. 51b.
to a victory which moved a sporting crowd,
few of whom had backed him, to full-
throated cheers. The Barden stable had
t° thank Pike for a lot; the champion rider’s
exhibition was worthy of his reputation and
of the champion sprinter he bestrode. Old
Ming was doing the better of the pair at the
finish; Price has been distinctly unlucky
with the massive chestnut this season. Royal
Park, who should be useful on suburban
courses, was third, and next to him was
High Disdain, finishing fast and not favored,
as in previous races, with a clear run. The
time was lmin. 321 see.
Greenline’s price with the bookmakers
was 16 to 1. The tote paid better than
that —£11 7s. 6d. and £2 12s. for 10s.
Spearman’s success in Tatt.’s Club Cup
was richly deserved. Inducement was
favorite at fives, Spearman and Vertigern
being at sevens. Inducement always looked
dangerous, and Cathmar’s finishing effort
was a surprise; it now looks as if this hand-
some little horse prefers a mile and a half
to a mile nowadays. But when Spearman
ranged alongside him, with Jimmy Munro rid-
ing his hardest, it was seen that E. J. Watt's
horse would prevail, and this he did by three-
quarters of a length, Inducement being a
length and a half behind Cathmar. Jeypore
was a good fourth, and on this showing is
worth bearing in mind when the Anniver-
sary Handicap comes round. Behind Jeypore
were Vertigern, Denis Boy and Loquacious;
the time was 2min. 30Jsec.
Dr. Vivers had a successful week with
King s Arms, who shared first place with
Gert: "\Nkat are v ou r prospects
p OR THE NEW year ?"
Bert : Much brighter?
Gert : * I m so pleased"
Bert '/'Ves, my qame is improving*
VYOtSDEREUULV T
Abbot’s Lad in the A.J.C. Handicap on
Boxing Day, was third to Nagrada and Mag-
netic in the Pace Welter on December 30,
and won the New Year’s Gift (at twelves) on
Friday. In this race, with an apprentice
(O’Keefe) up, he carried only Sst. 21b., the
minimum being 7st. 71b. Poor old Loquacious,
on the other hand, was burdened with list.
51b. in the Cup, although she has won two
races in two years and a quarter. Such
handicapping is hard to understand. Sat-
motli’s runaway win (at sevens) in the
Alfred Hill Handicap on Friday was pleas-
ing to Frank McGrath, who had formed a
high opinion of the Satelles three-year-old:
Nagrada was second and Potent (another
of Dr. Vivers’s) third.
* * * $
Sydney people had a surfeit of racing last
week, and the attendance at Warwick Farm
suffered. Randwick form was borne out in
the January Handicap, won by Dalmatic
from Mr. Kerry and Nagrada—all three ran
well at headquarters, though, unlike Nagrada,
Dalmatic and Mr. Kerry did not get into the
money—and in the Berala Handicap, which
was easy for Magnetic. This son of Rossen-
dale —Cragrose. whose tliree-year-old brother,
Ethics, looks like turning out a good one,
likes the Warwick Farm course.
❖ ❖ s!'. *
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap: Bay-
acre or Hunt the Slipper; next, Golden
Gate.
Flying Handicap: Bayacre or Movie
Star; next. Remora.
Moorefield Handicap: Jeypore; next, Mr.
Kerry.
Carlton Mile : PI ihi re ; next, Magnetic.
In the art of getting a horse to the post
as fit as a fiddle without a preliminary
gallop or two with the colors up .Tames
Scobie stands supreme. Having won the
Railway Highwoight Handicap at Fleming-
ton on Melbourne Cup Day. Bold Bid
(Heroic—Nod) was put aside for the
Standish Handicap on New Year’s Dav. His
condition was perfect, and C. B. Kellow.
the owner, backed him heavily, an example
followed in a more modest way by regular
followers of Scobie’s stable. Rut the three-
year-old was not favorite; Umbertana
(9 to 2). last year’s winner, went out a
point shorter. Naturally Holt’s other re-
presentative, Highland, receded in favor;
as it happened, the old fellow ran much
better than Umbertana, winding up a close
fourth. Bold Bid, however, was a brilliant
first, finishing a length and a quarter clear
of Byron (12 to 1), with Rosetta (20 to 1)
a meritorious third; Rosetta struck trouble
once or twice. The time was lmin. 12isec.
Scobie saddled up another winner in the
Welter Handicap—The Doctor’s Orders
(5 to 1), who races in the colors of Agar
Wynne, .sometime Postmaster-General. The
Doctor’s Orders has had an erratic career
and the rider, Goddard, was censured for
having steered an erratic course. The
youngster had previously ridden Agomoni
(5 to 1) for Telford, and assisted that
gentleman to land a stake which softened
the blow of the news from America that
the purse hung up for the handicap which
Phar Lap is to contest has been reduced
from £20,000 to £lO,OOO.
Glare failed in the Bagot Handicap, for
which he was favorite at 9 to 2, but it
was no inglorious failure; indeed, the horse
from Maoriland was one of six who battled
out a most interesting finish. St. Frederick
(7 to 1), who had run out wide in the
Holiday Handicap at Caulfield, did not
make that mistake on this occasion, and,
ridden out by Egan, the chestnut, who car-
ried 61b. overweight, passed Prince Don
(25 to 1) and Mira Donna (10 to 1) in
the last few strides, beating the chestnut
gelding by half a neck and the chestnut
mare by another head. Cimbrian was the
same distance away; then came Glare.
* * * *
Eurythmic, Easingwold, Lilypond, Maple,
Second Wind and other good horses have
won the W.A. Derby. It is doubtful whether
Isle of Astur, the latest winner, is in their
class; still his recent form has been good.
He captured three races in succession before
he took the Derby, for which he was favorite
at twos; and on the second day of the
W.A.T.C. meeting he added the Midland
Handicap to his creditable list, going out,
surprisingly, at tens—that is, in the ring;
on the 10s. tote his divs. were £6 6s. s.o.
and £2 2s. for a place. He is by Isle of
Arran out of a Poetical mare, and belongs
to E. Temby, who raced the sire on local
courses. jVTorley, who rides heaps of winners
in the West, had the mount on each occa-
sion. Morley also steered Taisho (10 to 1),
well known on Melbourne and Sydney
courses, in the Railway Stakes, the princi-
pal mile race in the West; but Taisho had
to strike his colors to Comprador (50 to 1),
an Adelaide-bred gelding by St. Anton —
Elton. Comprador’s divs. for 10s. were
£l7 17s. and £5 10s.; Taisho paid £2 Bs.
Taislio (6 to 4) went one better in the 0. B.
Cox Stakes, w.f.a., on Perth Cup day. As
the Perth Cup went to Bonny Note '(4O to
1), McShortodds, especially the merchants of
doubles, had a wonderful meeting. Owned by
Lee Steere and Forrest, Bonny Note is a
five-year-old bay gelding by Paper Money—
Bonny Helen. He came home lengths ahead
of two well-backed horses, Adeline’s March
(winner of the Imperial Handicap on the
second day) and Camarina; and his few
tote supporters received £2B 11s. and £7 16s.
for their ten bobs. He had failed to get a
place in the Railway Stakes.
*** • «
“Thormanby”: Freak betting, always
popular in Britain—the famous instance of
the £lOOO to a walking-stick laid against
Jeddah, winner of the 1898 Derby, is only
one of many—is rarely heard of in Australia,
though Sydney boasted a bookmaker, nowa-
days much subdued, who could occasionally
be kidded into laying a preposterous wager.
Perhaps the record in this respect went up
at the Pontefract meeting in Yorkshire at
the close of last season, when a bagman
offered £5 a week for life to 2s. 6d. against
a nag named Gold Meter. The latter lived
up to his title, as far as the punter was
concerned, for he won. At last advices the
repentant Ikey was going the rounds of the
insurance companies to find the cheapest
way of fulfilling his contract.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Showing shiftiness that compared with
the best work of Jack Haines, Queensland’s
lightweight champion, Harold Costello
(9.11). made a good impression when in his
first fight in Sydney he outpointed Newcastle
Joe Aitclieson (9.8) at Leichhardt on Satur-
day night. Aitclieson was always forceful,
but Costello kept leading, and by beating his
opponent to the punch ran out an easy
winner. If Aitclieson could only give as
much punishment as he can take he would
be a champion.
* * * *
“Mitt Shover”; Max Schinolling. the Ger-
man holder • of the world’s heavyweight
championship, is down to defend liis title
against Micky Walker next month in Florida.
Joe Jacobs. Schmelling’s manager, lias an-
nounced that after Walker is done with a
match against Dempsey or Sharkey will be
considered. That is looking ahead a bit.
\\ alker graduated to the light-heavyweight
class from the middlewcights, but he is
probably one of the most formidable punchers
in America and a boxer of exceptional class.
Many will expect him to beat Schmolling.
Russian Tom Lurich (14.6) thinks no
wrestling match can thrill unless it is rough
and he made his joust with Jack Higgins
(14.0) at Leichhardt riotous. After a round
or two Lurich (14.6) started a fight that
assumed Donnybrook proportions when all
seconds and the referee stepped in to stop it,
but he stuck strictly to business from then
onwards and scored the first fall with a body-
scissors. Higgins seemed to suffer from the
after-effects of a leg-squeeze, but he wrestled
well, and evened the score with a step-over
toehold. A knee-bump to the body upset
Higgins as the next round started, and this
so sickened him that he could offer no de-
fence to the body-press with which Lurich
won the deciding fall.
The Ins and Outs
After a promising start in the third
Test South Africa failed to grasp its
opportunity. Australia batted first, and
when Ponsford, Woodfull and Bradman were
all out for 16 runs among them, the Spring-
boks pinched themselves to see if it was a
dream. Kippax, playing a delightful innings
for 52, stopped the pavilion trot, while Mc-
Cabe (22) and Rigg, who batted deter-
minedly for 68, made matters look a bit
better. Then the debacle started again and
the remaining five men contributed only
33 altogether, the innings ending at IDS.
Bell bowled rarely, taking 5 for 69, and left-
hander Quinn was also to the front with 4 for
42, his victims including Bradman, caught
by Cameron. South Africa chose to make its
first innings a marathon, even after it
had passed the Australian .score with good
wickets in hand. Mitchell went early for
17, and pottering along all next day the
Tourists had only 268 up for 7 wickets,
running their total next morning to 358.
Curnow (47), Cameron (39) and Morkel
(33) were able to do something with the
not very threatening bowling of Grimmett
and Ironmonger, but the only man who was
completely on top of it wms Viljoen, who
gave a chanceless display of hard driving
for 111. Grimmett (2-100), Ironmonger
(3-72), Wall (3-98) and McCabe (2-41)
shared the wickets. Australia had lost Pons-
foi'd’s wicket (he made 34) for 54 when
Woodfull and Bradman became associated.
The captain and the champion put on 274,
a second-wicket record, when Bradman (167)
left, having shattered the Afrikanders’ hopes ;
Woodfull was not dismissed till he had com-
piled 161. At tea-time the board showed
408 for 3 wickets, with Kippax 31 n.o.
In the Sheffield game between Queensland
and N.S.W. on Sydney Cricket Ground,
N.S.W. had 80 up when Bill went to Tliur-
low for 44. Love (39), Nutt (28) and Marks
(71) advanced the score briskly, though Marks
gave several chances. Ilird and Hunt also
gathered some useful runs, the innings yield-
ing SOS. Oxenham, with 5 for 78, had all
the batsmen in trouble, and Thurlow also
bowled well. Queensland, with skipper Gough
absent through ankle injury, and Hansen
carried off the field with a split head after
he had made 9, could only manage 148 for 9
wickets.. O’Reilly (2-19) was the most
ipipressive of the home bowlers. Thurlow
again bowled excellently in the N.S.W.
second innings, his figures being 5 for 74.
Hird made the top score (74) in a total of
253. Queensland made a fair start in their
second innings; at the tea adjournment two
wickets were down for 104. Cook 45 n.o.
* * * *
“Jolimount” : Though W. IT. Winsor, sec-
retary of the Maoriland Cricket Council,
crossed the Tasman specially to put M.L.’s
case before the Australian cricket heads, lie
did not have much luck. Ilis main object
was to ask the Australian body to alter the
itinerary drawn up for the English side
coming out at the end of this year, so as
to allow the Britons to return through M.L.
and play matches there. Though the Maryle-
bone club expressed its willingness, the Board
ot Control couldn’t see it, and stood pat on
the first programme. However, in case the
fifth Test should drag out so as to delay
the departure of the South Africans for the
Shivery Isles at its conclusion, arrangements
have been made to start the Test a day
earlier, if necessary, cutting a day off the
preceding game between the ’Boks 'and Vic-
toria.
* * * *
. “Hotham”: The Board of Control sat in
judgment on Alan Fairfax in Melbourne
a ; s .t week, and refused his application for
relief from his agreement in connection with
the tour of the last Australian eleven. Like
Ins mates, Fairfax contracted not to accept
an engagement in England within two years
of the team’s return to Australia. He has
received a good offer from Accrington, in
Lancashire, however, and is eager to take it,
since he is out of employment in Australia.
4 Ins is a matter that the board might well
have taken into consideration. As it is it
will be difficult to prevent Fairfax leaving
Australia, unless he is first sued for breach
of contract and has damages awarded
against him. All that can be done as regards
the other side of the world is to notify the
«wL° ritieS i. ‘ f /- should happen that Lanca-
bhire county tries to enlist his services, and
tuat will be poor satisfaction.
* * *
«ino? inSe K k' : i , r, ,ic I re was a time, not long
w , h ® n the book tax of 2s. (id. on
vv lsden s would have provoked a howl,
inese it is going comparatively un-
noticed. For one thing, the N.S.W.G.A. is
pioviding cheaper and, in some respects,
better fare for local readers. Also, “Wis-
dom s does not now please with its old-time
impartiality. It has rather degenerated into
the organ of the “pavilion” cricketers. In
its ettorts to push some particular barrow
or another, not directly interesting to Aus-
tralians, it has made Bradman’s perform-
ances during the last tour sound like the
crude efforts of a not very skilful but very
lucky schoolboy.
(Continued on page 31.)
The County of Cumberland tenitis cham-
pionships, which are practically k N.S.W.
show, provided Jack Crawford with another
tiiumph. He beat Bruce Walker in the
singles and took the doubles with Poideviu
as well as the mixed doubles, in which liis
partner was Miss Dingle.
* * * *
Making it a tight forward game, the
feouth African Itugby players in Britain
won their third international of the tour by
beating England at Twickenham by 8-0 ii
try and a dropped goal to nil. Wales and
Ireland have already been bested, so Scot-
land remains the next, nut to crack.
* * * *
Queensland open-boat sailers scooped two
Australian championships last week. In
Sydney Victor won the 16-footer event and
the Ajax Cup, while in Brisbane the local
boats were undefeatable for the 12-footer
title.
* * * *
"Huon : Victorian bowlers are having a
bad trot. Some weeks ago, the State team
was soundly towelled by the visiting N.S.W.
side, a happening so unusual as to cause
excited comment throughout the continent.
Last week the Cabbage Gardeners tripped
across the creek to Tassy, and were beaten
in the first two games of the rubber by
Southern Tasmania at Hobart. The tourists
have yet to encounter the north end of the
Apple Island. This claims to be able to
lose its southern rivals.
“Blade” : Mosman’s eight is the first entry
for the N.S.W. championship, which will be
rowed on the Nepean, at Penrith, on
February 0. The crew is a young one, but
it lias picked up both the spirit and per-
formance of the former eight, which made
N.S.W. rowing history, and it already has
the Boone Cup to its credit this season,
rowed in record time. In Ron Butler, the
crew has a stroke of unusual capacity. Only
24, and weighing 10.4, he has been very
successful since his promotion from the
lightweights to the seniors. Last season lie
stroked the winners of the champion light-
weight eights and fours, in addition to suc-
cesses in senior events. This season lie has
stroked two senior eights to victory as well
as a championship four. If the Mosmanites
cap their winning trot by taking the State
title, as seems fairly certain, the crew will
probably represent N.S.W. in the inter-
state race for the King’s Cup on the Yarra
in May.
* * * *
“Splash”: Sydney swimming enthusiasts
persist in the belief that Andrew Charlton,
after his periodical retirements from the
game, will prove this season to be as good
as ever, and equal to regaining an Olympic
championship. Supposing that he does come
back —and it is genuinely to be hoped he
does —he will have to be better than ever.
The world’s record for 400 metres still
stands in his name, but all his other per-
formances have been hopelessly outclassed
by men who will be showing at Los Angeles
and are in the top of their form, among
them being such world-beaters of the moment
as Taris, of France, and the Japanese
Malcino and Takamura, to say nothing of
the Australian-American Clarence Crabbe.
It would appear, too, if times are any
criterion, that Noel Ryan, suggested as
Charlton’s partner, would have little hope
against the European and American cracks.
* if- *
“Lift”: Westralian sailing-men are dis-
appointed at the necessity for cancelling this
year’s race for 21ft. restricted yachts. Royal
Perth was to have handled the event, but
all the States save Westralia find themselves
unable to compete. This is the first time in
the 12 years since it was instituted that
the race has not been held. Expense, which
includes the transfer of the yachts by
steamer to Perth, is the reason for the with-
drawal of the Eastern States. Save in
N.S.W. the class is a popular one, Queens-
land alone having a fleet of 11 of the little
chaps. Tasmania holds the trophy, having
tvon with Tassie 111. last year.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ityan, Esq. s
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TRADE (f MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAYBESTOS
“Silver Edge. ”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life,
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414-
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
The Ins and Outs
Last week’s Sheffield matches saw South
Australia and Victoria come out on top, the
latter scoring magnificently in Melbourne.
With 432 to win in the last innings, the
Yarrasiders faced a stiff task, which looked
stiffer when Ponsford failed again. But
Woodfull hoisted 147, and broke the bowlers’
hearts. O’Brien (51) and Darling then got
together, and the latter, knocking the bowl-
ing galley west, was 111 n.o. when the
required runs were got for 7 wickets, the left-
hander being well backed in the closing-
stages by a’Beckett (21), Barnett (21) and
Smith (18). Tlieak and O’Reilly, with two
costly wickets each, had the best of what
bowling honors were going on the N.S.W.
side.
Quensland was beaten by the locals at
Adelaide by 280 runs. With Gilbert, Boo-
sted and Gough crocked, the visitors were
handicapped, but the home side was on
top most of the game. The second South
Australian knock was closed with 7 for 335,
of which Richardson compiled a sparkling
138. Thurlow (3-141) and Hurwood (2-50)
were the successful bowlers, Gilbert trying
only a few overs. Richardson’s record for
this season sounds like old times. H'is
scores are 24-26 against Victoria. 33-36
against the ’Boks, 122-22 against N.S.W.
and 86-138 against Queensland.
This round of the Shield leaves South
Australia bracketed with N.S.W. at the
head of the table, each having 10 points up,
while Victoria and Queensland also tie with
5 apiece. For the first time every match at
this stage of the season has been completed
within the statutory four days.
“Bumpkin” : The controversy over Gilbert’s
bowling became so acute in Melbourne that
expert scientific opinion was called for. Dr.
Hylda Bull, of the Civic Health Department
—she is the wife of playwright Louis Esson
—made the interesting suggestion that dif-
ferences in the anatomical structure of
the arm of an abo. and that of a white man
might account for the umpire’s decision. The
question was then referred to Prof. Wood
Jones, of Melbourne University, one of the
world’s leading anatomists, and an uncom-
promising realist in his particular depart-
ment. Wood Jones confirmed Dr. Bull’s
suggestion and said that Binghi’s upper arm
is longer than that of the Caucasian. A
similar disparity in the lengths of the bones
of the leg accounts for the fact that black
brother walks differently from white
brother.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
Victorian country players provided an
easy job at Geelong for the Springboks. The
countrymen made 88 and 84, the tourists
responding with 418 for 8. Christy, making
his first appearance as a bowler in Aus-
tralia, took 6 for 31 in the match, while
Curnow scored 158. Van de Merwe caught
three and stumped two batsmen, and is evi-
dently a wicket-getting ’keeper.
* # * *
“Der Jong” • A somewhat amazing state-
ment has been attributed to one of the
South African cricketers by a Sydney jour-
nal. It was that the Afrikanders when at
home "seldom play any cricket except on
Saturdays. They rarely go on tour in their
own country.” There are seven cricket
“provinces” in South Africa corresponding
to our own four Sheffield Shield States.
These play matches against each other in
what is known as the Currie Cup competi-
tion, the teams, Transvaal, Natal, Western
Province, 0.F.5., Griqualand West. Eastern
Province and Border, travelling back and
forwards all over the Union. The control-
ling body is the South African Cricket
Association, with which many other cricket
organisations, including the Rhodesian, are
affiliated. The Currie Cup contest was
begun in 1890.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Having taken a
tumble to themselves, th‘e Australian tennis
authorities have belatedly revised the slave-
driving itinerary they originally drew up for
the Japanese players. Instead of playing
the moment they had left the boat and rush-
ing hurriedly from one side of a rather large
continent to another, our visitors will start
against N.S.W. in Sydney on January 16.
the preliminary Queensland programme hav-
ing been cut out. A match against Australia
commences at Melbourne on January 21, and
seven days are allowed for the hop to Perth,
where Westralia will be tackled on January
30. The Australian championships, begin-
ning February 6, will last a week in Adel-
aide, and a week later Australia will again
be encountered in Sydney. A two-day scrap
with Queensland at Brisbane will end the
tour, our visitors taking the northern route
home.
The first Test will be played on
the Kooyong courts in Melbourne on
January 21-22-23. Australia will be re-
presented by Crawford, Hopman and Turn-
bull. Each day three singles and a doubles
will be played and the rubber will be
the best of three sets. The inclusion of Turn-
bull is particularly gratifying, for there can
be no doubt about the South Australian s
promise. The pity of it is that he does
not get half the opportunities to meet
really first-class players that some of his
contemporaries in Melbourne and Sydney
do. If lie were resident in either of these
big tennis centres he would now be in-
disputably in the first rank of our players.
Here is his opportunity, however, and a
good showing against the formidable Nip-
ponese will mean a Davis Cup trip for
him.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: “Auto,” a well-known French
journal which, in characteristic French
fashion, concerns itself chiefly with sports
other than that its name would suggest, is
naturally an acknowledged authority on
tennis. Sizing up the coming Davis Cup
competition, it rates Australia, Britain,
South Africa, Japan and Germany as hav-
ing equal chances of coming out on top in
the European zone. It adds that in Austin
and Perry, Britain looks like having an un-
beatable pair, and considers that the Britons
may possibly defeat both America and France
iu the final issue. South Africa seems dis-
tinctly out of place in that galley on its
Davis Cup form to date. Ditto as regards
Germany and even Japan. Perry and Austin
were well and truly towelled by the young
Yank brigade in the States last year, though
they put up a fine showing. It seems un-
likely that the best Australia can put in
the field will down either England or
America. One or the other of these two
will probably win to the challenge round,
and the writer tips America to meet France
and lift the cup.
The Nineteenth Hole
“8.A.”: An unusual golf gathering took
place on the South Perth links recently.
Archbishop Le Fanu (Anglican) and Rev.
N. Richards (Congregational) tried con-
clusions with Father McMahon and Rabbi
Freedman. Father McMahon and the Rabbi
were victors by 2 up and 1 to play. On
BE A SPORT!
THE FISHERMAN'S CHILD (as big sister introduces her latest boy to the family circle):
"Oh, Daddy, don’t you think she ought to throw that one back?”
the adjournment to the Nineteenth seasonal
greetings were exchanged, and another mile-
stone on the road to church unity was
possibly passed.
“Old Q.”: This is alleged to have hap-
pened at the Toowoomba (Q.) Christmas
carnival. A conscientious but dud golfer was
ploughing his way through a handicap event
when he looked up and caught a peculiar
expression in the eye of his caddie. Said
he, airily, “I’ll bet you’ve seen worse players
than I am?” The caddie remained silent
and the player repeated his question. “I
heard yer fust time,” said the youth wearily,
“an’ I’m still thinking whether ter take
that bet.”
“Marino” : Adelaide saw a golf contest of
a kind unusual in Australia when teams
from the Great Public Schools met at Ivoo-
yonga. There were 32 entries from six
schools, and the event was over 18 holes
of handicap stroke,play, Kooyonga Club hav-
ing presented a cup which will be played for
annually. The State junior charqpion, Ack-
land-Horman, of Scotch, was the lowest
marker with a handicap of 3, and tied for
fourth place with 79 off the stick. Meyer,
of Prince Alfred, with 25 handicap, headed
the list with a net 68. Clelland, of Scotch,
tied for second place with Hill, of St.
Peters, with a net card of 75. Hill is a
son of the South Australian Premier.
“Hamilton”: Queensland’s latest golf
course is at Enoggera, a Brisbane suburb
once famous for its odoriferous Chinese
gardens, but now the abiding-place of the
very naicest people. Nine holes have been
completed, and the other ten are expected to
be ready for operations by the middle of
the year. The course is pretty and pic-
turesque, with ample natural water in the
shape of a running creek and several small
lagoons. One of these, already used as a
bathing-pool, is to be converted into a
pukka swimming-bath, the creek, which is
clear, renewing the water constantly.
“Sandringham” : E. Naismitli, one of Vic-
toria’s younger golf pros., had an exciting
win in the Findlay Cup competition, a 36-
hole stroke tourney for professionals, which
was played on the Albert Park course dur-
ing the holidays. He was hard pressed all
the way, C. W. Connors tieing with him at
70 for the morning round, while W. J.
Fowler, the State champion, was only two
worse. In the afternoon the struggle con-
tinued, Naismitli getting home with a 74,
which gave him the trophy by a stroke.
Connors and Fowler were bracketed for
second place.
❖ jJ; j|:
“Hoylake”: The British golfing world is
taking a keen interest in the coming mar-
riage of Joyce Wetliered and Major Hutchin-
son, of the Coldstreams. Joyce Wethered won
the English championship from all-comers
five times in succession and retired unde-
feated. Hubby-to-be, who is a near-relative
of the famous Horace Hutchinson, is also no
mug at the game, for he has played for
Scotland against England in nine consecu-
tive matches. His best performance in the
very big stuff was second place to Robert
Maxwell in the British amateur champion-
ship of 1903.
Car and Cycle
“Tenakoe”: Maoriland is sitting up in
expectation of Wizard Smith’s attack on the
motor speed record at Awanui, which is
expected to take place on or after January
10, though weather and other conditions
will determine the actual date and hour.
Owing to illness it is not expected that Don
Harkness, designer of the chassis on which
the British aeroplane engine is mounted,
will accompany Smith, but that will not
affect the result. The fuel to be used is
almost straight petrol, and 350 gallons of
it have been landed in M.L. for the attempt
on Campbell’s record of 245.7 rn.p.li. One
feature of the car is the ignition device,
which is an Australian invention described
in The Bulletin some months ago. No
matter how foul or grease-clogged the
sparking points may be, perfect ignition is
maintained.
❖ :Jc :J: a'
“Whizz”: Still they come. Four more
motor speed records were hoisted last week
on the Montlhery track by G. T. Eyston in
a British M.G. of 750 c.c. The spins were
over 5 and 10 kilometres and 5 and 10 miles.
The 5 kilometres were covered at the rate
of 184.71 k.p.h., and the 5 miles at 184.66
k.p.h. The 10 kilometres were done at a rate
of 184,62 k.p.h. and the 10 miles at 184.21
k.p.h., extraordinarily even timing. The mean
averages work out at 114| rn.p.li., which
will stand for a car of this capacity until
another one beats it to-morrow or the day
after.
, * $ if *
“Differential” : Most of the American de-
signers of racing cars, in spite of rumors
to the contrary, seem to have taken up the
attitude of the skunk which, when an early
Ford went by emitting a very blue exhaust,
said wearily to its cobber “What’s the use?’’
The only recent announcement of a new
design thereaway comes from Harry Miller,
the front-drive pioneer, and perhaps America’s
best designer. His new idea is not for competi-
tion against the British international speed-
sters, but for the Indianapolis 500, America’s
only distance race. The new gadget has a
16-cylinder engine, With a direct drive on all
four wheels, each of which is independently
sprung. Transmission will include a
hydraulic clutch, something we have not yet
seen in Australia, which is apparently on the
principle of the well-known Daimler fluid
flywheel.
“Der Jong’’: One of the keenest motoriug
competitions South Africa knows is the
uphill run from Durban to Johannesburg,
6000 feet above sea level. In between is the
mighty range of the Drakensberg, which
drops to a mere 5000 ft. or so at Baing’s Nek,
over which the road and railway run. E. H.
McCrystal, driving his five-year-old Baby
Austin, recaptured the honor this year, after
holding the record for two years with llhr.
48min. Two other drivers then dropped the
figures to lOhr. 42min. and lOhr. 30min.
respectively. At his last attempt McCrystal
came out triumphant in lOhr. 42min. in
spite of what are described as “quagmire
conditions.” As the crow flies, the distance
from Durban to J’burg is well over 300
miles, and is much more by road. Counting
in the long climb from the coast to the
top of Laing’s Nek and some subsequent
bumps on the track, the performance is an
astonishingly good one.
Miscellaneous
“Green Chequer”: Only those privileged
to win their confidence realise that homer-
pigeon fanciers can give the average fisher-
man tw r o stone and a beating when it comes
to telling a tale. Still, one that has just
reached me from America seems to strain the
probabilities. One of a lot of homers taken
to Venezuela from New York by an explor-
ing co., which used them to communicate with
its base on the coast, is alleged to have cast
up at the old homestead on Long Island,
2000 miles from Venezuela. Now, a homer
pigeon has to be trained, little by little, to
learn the track he has to fly back to his
loft. Presumably the fowl had been taught
the route from the explorers’ inland camp to
the shore base, but as he came down from the
States in a cage and on a ship he could
have had little chance of learning the road
back to Long Island. It may be that he got
a chance of studying the ship’s chart on the
way down, or got the information as to the
way to go home from some Venezuelan parrot
—both explanations are as likely as any that
could be offered.
v -i* *i* »!»
“The Gaffer”: The “world’s” sprint and
middle-distance championships, which are
becoming an annual feature of professional
running in Victoria, will take place as usual
at Melbourne Motordrome, starting on Feb-
ruary 13. The entries include most of the
crack middle-distance professional runners,
including FI. Bascombe, the ex-amateur
quarter-mile champion of Australia, and W.
Preston, of Maoriland. Among the sprinters
are Austen Robertson, of Victoria, who won
the sprint title last year; Tim Banner, of
N.S.W.; T. Miles, of Queensland ; and many
another well-known knight of the spiked-
shoe. It will be hoped that this champion-
ship meeting will be responsible for better
times. So far the competing peds have
fallen far below those made in other coun-
tries —which is anomalous for “world’s cham-
pions.”
* $ * $
“Spike”: What Australian athletes are
likely to be up against at the coming Olym-
piad can be seen in the standard fixed by
Sweden to which candidates for Olympic
selection must conform. Taking one or two
items at random, the Swedes insist that an
aspirant for the 800 metres must have at
least lmin. 53 l-ssec. to his credit. The
Australian record is lmin. 55 l-ssec. For
the 1500 metres. 3min. 55sec. is the standard.
This country’s best is 4min. 4sec. For the
high jump, a minimum of 6ft. 3in. is set.
and for the broad. 24ft. Oin. Australia’s
best are 6tt. and 23ft. Oin. respectively.
For the pole vault Sweden asks competitors
to top 13ft.. The best we have done in
Australia is 12ft. 4fin.
v
“Hotham”: An incident which came peri-
lously near to bloodshed has been intriguing
Melbourne bowlers. A new law introduced
at the end of last season commands all
players to appear “in white or cream
trousers, a white or cream hat, and club
colors.” When the Brunswick Club engaged
the Victoria ditto the other day it noticed
with horror that three of the opposition
had failed to conform to the sartorial stan-
dard. However, it pulled itself together
and played on, later formally reporting the
malefactors to the Bowling Association.
That body sat in. banco, and after hearing
the accused in defence adjourned the
matter for consideration. Victoria Club is
liable to disqualification, and if this comes
to pass there may be a declaration of war.


ď
fd
ďf
d
A Few .SHixhes They re On
f
Unsurpassed for the Household, Traveller and
School Outfits Any name woven m fast color
Actual
Size
cs&.lf4&£cavn<i'
Style
No. 6.
The Prices are Moderate.
12 doz. 7/6,6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
Sold by Leading Drapers.
Write for Name Style Circular to
J, «J. CASH AUSTRALIAN WEAVING CO. PTY. LTD.
"• 8S CUBITT STREET. RICHMOND. MELB.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
<r
free pattern
EVERY WEEK
South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius . . 10,000 tons, Jan. 18, ’32
tThemistocles 12,500 ~ Feb. 9, ’32
*Nestor . . 14,500 „ Mch. 8, ’32
JCeramic . . 18,500 ~ Mch. 15, ’32
*Ulysses ... 14,500 „ Apr. 23, *32
I'Euripides . . 15,000 ~ May 3, ’32
•First class only. fFirst and third class,
t Cabin class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland
Distinguished Social Life.
From north and south the jocund, the
free and the judicially separated poured into
the city during the last hours of 1931, and
the dying year sighed its last reflecting thst
its birthday hadn’t been half so gay. The
truth is by the time 1932 was born we had
realised we could be poor and merry at the
same time.
This Letter had five invitations and
sampled the lot. It dined at the Went-
worth in company with 300 others, and
to-day its dressing-table is the richer by a
monkey (handed out with the sweets) that
looks like a young relation of Taronga Zoo.
Next on the list came the Janet Gaynor
Ball at the Town Hall, overrun by Prince
Alfred organisers and doctors. It was tied
up with miles of rainbow streamers, and at
midnight was nearly as submerged as Pom-
peii under a deluge of confetti (and Heaven
help the cleaners !). There were blue and
gold supper stalls up each side of the ball-
room, more or less like a boulevarde cafe
in Paris.
But it was not till midnight anywhere
that spirits noticeably went down and
spirits gaily soared. At the Palmy Days
Fiesta at the Stadium, at ten o’clock 900
couples were dancing sedately, and the
bottles on the tables' were nearly full. Later
on even the bandsmen swaggered like trouba-
dours. They blew and blared and wailed and
with a cocoanut. George Fitz Patrick kept
with a cocoanut. George Fitzpatrick kept
his eagle eye over all (the dance was for
Dalwood), and at two o’clock saw hundred-
weights of bacon and eggs and sizzling saus-
age being swallowed by a thousand diehards.
The Doughnut Girls who handed out
gifts at the Fiesta were in frocks that were
aprons in the front and open vistas at the
back—to the waist boundary. But their rai-
ment was at least kept hoist by a string
around the neck, whereas many of the girls
apparently were glued into theirs—no
shoulder straps, and cut away under the
arms in the most venturesome manner. Some
children had a frill like a garden border
outlining the upper segment of their »coming-
out frocks; another favored style was an
ostrich plume cavorting over the right
shoulder, drooping about the spine and cas-
cading to a finish under the left shoulder.
A lot of the new-year girls were a rich
suntan to the shoulder blades, and white
as a plucked chicken below.
At the Butler Ball in Mark Foy’s the
young airman held court. He’s a shy young
bird, and confessed that he neither smokes,
drinks nor dances. With him were his
betrothed, pretty Doris Garling, his sister
Norah and a very proud father. These had
come down from Lithgow for the party. The
dance was to benefit the N.S.W. Community
Hospital.
At the Black Opal Ball in David Jones’s
1200 dancers supplied organiser Norah Frost
with a plump cheque for the Deaf and Dumb
and the Blind kiddies at Darlington.
Janet Thatcher, in a suit of cool blue
Shantung, Mrs. Ellis Feilding Jones, in the
same washing material, and Morna Mac-
Cormick, in beige, all crowned with shady
straw hats, were three of the really well-
dressed punters at Randwick on New Year’s
Day. Skirts for these occasions, when
women want the freedom of their legs to
chase winnings or tips, show a tendency to
creep up, and the long flowing dresses will
soon be dead except for formal wear. Eliza-
beth Knox, looking cool as a bit of pottery
in her brown frock, Mrs. Oliver Osbo’rne, in
beige georgettes, the Knox lady, in black, Mrs.
James Brennan, in navy blue chiffons, and
Mrs. 11. Weigall, in black-and-white stripes,
were others who suggested, if they did not
achieve, crisp efficiency.
Some of the new members didn’t take long
to drop in at Canberra; and already the
House of Reps.’ benches are dotted with
notices of claims, pegged out in accordance
with ancient custom. The elections renewed
interest in the Federal Capital, and through-
out the holidays there was a steady flow of
visitors. They found the roses and the
rowans very beautiful, if nothing much else.
Generally the place, except immediately
around Parliament House and the Hotel
Canberra, shows advanced signs of hard
times. The lawns, laid down at great ex-
pense, are already overgrown with clover;
and the risk of a fire over-running a great
part of the territory has been greatly added
to. Two hotels out of the five so lavishly
built were much more than ample to provide
for the thickest of the holiday crowd; and
the. weather was so hot that the average
visitor found the really beautiful and very
well-run Blue Baths the most popular insti-
tution.
The Prime Minister’s lodge, which was
not used during the reign of the Scullins, has
suffered as much as any from the general
neglect. The place is grimy and over-
grown ; and even if the whole ten Lyons
cubs are handy with the broom and the
hoe, there will be plenty of occupation for
them for the next six months.
This was the Canvas Christmas. Thou-
sands of people who hitherto filled pubs and
boarding-houses and furnished cottages hired
tents, and in favored spots they have been
pitched by the hundred. And not merely
handy to the city, either —at places like
Narrabeen —but as far afield as Narooma, on
the South Coast.
“Mick” Meagher, who died at Bathurst
last week, will be badly missed in the old
western city. Like many another militant
Hibernian, he mellowed after the arrival of
the Free State, and latterly the only indi-
cation of the stormy days he had known
was his library. It occupies the most
important room at Kilrush, the big Bathurst
place that old John built and inhabited for
so long, and it is probably the most com-
prehensive private collection of books deal-
ing with Irish affairs in the world. For
years past daily-paper editors and leader-
writers who wanted a point about Ireland
settled in a hurry have been ringing up
Kilrush. “Mick” Meagher made an
ideally happy marriage with a Dublin
doctor’s witty daughter during one of his
many visits to Ireland 43 years ago. One
boy married a daughter of Andy Watt, K.,C.,
and Tony, another, married a Bathurst
Busby. Moya, the eldest daughter, became
a mother superior; Eileen married Hum-
phrey Browning, M.C., son of the Crown
Prosecutor. Emily is Mrs. Alec Hunter,
and another girl married a Barnes, of War-
wick (Q.).
To reach Sydney and the Manly holiday
camp, some of the Far Western children had
first to do a coach journey of 200 miles to
Broken Hill; and there most of a party of
seven boys and a girl saw their first stair-
way. It was at the Freemasons’, where some
of them were given a night’s accommoda-
tion. At the first meal one of the children
whispered to a waitress would she please tell
her where she could get a pannikin to have
a drink. The waitress poured water into
a goblet in front of her. The girl bit her lip
and shyly opened wide her eyes. “I didn’t
know,” she said —“I thought they were
eggeups.”
This is a picture from The Bulletin
camera of writing-girl Jessie Urquhart.
Jessie, whose first published novel, “Way-
side,” was written when she was in her early
’teens, has
once more
tried a sus-
tained work,
and has once
more been
succe ,s s ful.
This time her
novel, “Giv-
ing Amber a
Chance,” has
been bought by
the “Woman’s
Mirror” and
its first chap-
ters will ap-
pear in April.
Jessie has
written innu-
merable short
stories and
articles. One
day she will
surely write a
work in which
the drama of prison life is portrayed, for as
a youngster she knew more about prisons
(at any rate, theoretically) than many a
hardened lag. Berrima, Goulburn, Bathurst,
Long Bay—she knows them all, for her
father was a former gaol governor and then
Comptroller-General of Prisons.
Without fuss or fluff Mrs. Din Garvan
took her encore to the holy estate last week,
and became Mrs. Gordon Brady at St.
Mark’s. Canon Lea blessed the joining to-
gether. The bride walked alone and wore
beige-pink chiffons.
Fair and fluffy Gwen Coombe should soon
be seen in Sydney in British talkies. She
is working in the Elstree studios, in Lon-
don, and has a part in “Sinners All.”
The wife of Norman Kater, M.L.C., who
left Australia six months ago to holiday in
Europe and visit her two sons at Cam-
bridge, died in London last week of
pneumonia. She used to be Jean Mackenzie,
of Canley Vale, and most of her life has
been spent away from the city—for 15 years
the Kater home was near Molong. Two
sons are settled on the land, and two daugh-
ters (Jean and Mary) are Mrs. Ranald Ross
Munro and Mrs. Douglas Tooth.
This Letter was at a dinner-party the
other night, where John Joseph Clasby, the
new U.A.P. member who has wrested East
Sydney from Mr. Lang’s protege, Mr. Ward,
was the young lion. John Joseph is neither a
sheik nor a Valentino, but he’s compact
and sturdy, with direct-looking eyes, and
one of those cool baritone speaking voices
that always hold up the traffic in general
conversation. That sort of voice is a Heaven-
sent gift to the politician—it sounds as
impressive as a town-hall organ. Long
before John Joseph thought of becoming one
of the nation’s lifesavers, he was an active
friend of the sick and out-of-work Digger.
Many of the women who served on his com-
mittee in Darlinghurst were surprised and
delighted to find that the candidate they
were asked to work for was the young man
with the pleasant way of luring all the old
pants and boots belonging to the men of the
house into his old but capable Ford.
One committeewoman went home and told
her husband with delight that the pleasant
young beggar and the U.A.P. nominee were
the same person. Husband didn’t respond
to her enthusiasm. For a few moments he
smoked moodily. Then “Sec here, Ethel,”
he remarked, “there’s one pair of boots you
must not give away; they’re the only ones
I can wear when my bunion gets bad—the
brown ones.”
Outside one booth on polling day an old
lady, accompanied by a young girl, sought
out the candidate. “May I speak to you in
private?” she inquired. He led her to the
edge of the pavement, where, shaking with
indignation, she pointed to an energetic
woman helper. “That woman’s a snake in
the grass,” the old lady said. “She’s not
working for _ you—she’s working against
you. She whispered to me and the woman
next to me to give you one vote and the next
man two and the next man three —well,
that’s, five votes against you. Now, would
you like me to stay and explain that you
must get the most votes?” She was a
charming old lady, so the candidate tucked
her carefully into a car and drove her home.
As the city grows the need arises for
more welfare
o rganisations,
and more care-
ful adminis-
tration of its
charities and
philanthropies.
In social wel-
fare, as in
everything
else, the day
of the speci-
alist has
arrived, and
the welfare
worker of the
future will be
required t o
produce her
diplomas in
such butterfly
subjects a s
psych ology,
economics,
hygiene, and
so on. To meet these demands, the Board
of Social Study and Training provides and
controls a course of study. The board con-
sists of members of the teaching staff of the
University, the National Council of Women
and representatives of Prince Alfred and
Rachel Forster hospitals, Sydney Day Nur-
series and Kindergarten Unions, Boy Scouts,
Toe H and almost every big charity and
social welfare movement in the city. The
subject of this May Moore photo, Aileen
Fitz Patrick —you remember her as one of
the live wires of the “Wear More Wool
Campaign”—is students’ supervisor and
director of field work for the board.
The knowledge that Dorothy Brunton was
bringing her brand-new husband to the
party crowded.’ the drawing-room of the
Australia the other afternoon. The com-
mittee of the Palmy Days fiesta, the hosts
of the welcome, were reinforced by cousins
and aunts and an occasional uncle, all
anxious to get an eyeful of Dot’s choice.
He is big and clean-cut, and, as his name is
Ben, inevitably Dorothy calls him Big Ben.
He is also credited with a million-pound
smile and a manner that could persuade the
U.S.A. to abolish prohibition. Dorothy sat
beside Mrs. Walter Ivingsmill and looked
cool and unresisting amid a tempest of
grand-opera arias, which under Josephine
Marks’s direction was let loose amid the
islands of tables. May Sheehan-of-St.-Mar-
garet’s hat was such as might have been
worn by ladies travelling by chaise to Bath
in the good old days of highwaymen and
horse-pistols (and in days to come some
future Letter-writer will talk about the
period when we rode to Darlinghurst by
tram in the good old days of gunmen and
automatics). Dorothy’s hat must not be
forgotten, either. It savored of old France
in sky-blue felt* and had a white cloud of
ostrich feather (the fashion-books describe
it as a Henry of Navarre) running from the
front, over the crown, finally curling on the
neck, upper left. A satisfying hat, together
with its caped blue and white frock.
Posterity will arise and bless the Austra-
lian Forest League, whose members are
ngntuig for the playgrounds of the future.
\\ her ever a movement is on foot to preserve
stretches of busliland, to protect the beauty
ot our forest ways, to plant avenues, there
yp u Wl ll find the Forest League active.
It lately helped to secure 30,000 acres of
park land up Armidale way, the bluegutn
forest _ along the Grose, the reserve at Mt.
Warning in the MacPherson range. It
works with the town-planners so that green
sward and green tree may flourish in parks
and playgrounds. With the Horticultural
society the Leaguers encourage wild-flower
cultivation in school gardens; and one of
their schemes is an avenue of trees stretch-
ing from Sydney to Canberra. F. T. Ber-
maii, headmaster of the Newtown Public
School, is secretary of this beauty-loving
society.
• 4 recent London “Mirror” shows Sydney
girl Naomi Waters, who dashed off to Lon-
don unbeknownst to her parents some months
ago, walking down Piccadilly arm in arm
with her betrothed, Roland Gillett. Naomi
is wearing one of those diagonal-striped
tweed coats, and her .scarf is worn like a
stock-very smart and new. The young
man is an actor and a playwright.
Sydney barrister Eric S. Miller wed Rita
Margaret Clarke,_ from Wollongong, within
fet. Mary s Basilica on a fine still morning
at the close of the old year. Deep-red gladioli
and velvet ribbons glowed about the aisles
and the chancel, and gladioli in these ardent
tones w 7 ere carried by the two ’maids. They
were the bride’s sisters and wore long white
organdie frocks and wide-brimmed hats, and
they stepped with due seriousness after the
long train which the thirteenth-century
georgette wedding frock trailed in its wake.
Mr. and Mrs. G. Clarke (bride’s parents)
received at the Australia.
Congratulations to Mrs. Susan Bunyan,
of .Church-street, Parramatta, 101 on Christ-
mas Day. Mrs. Bunyan’s eyesight is so good
that quite , recently she did some fine
stitchery for a bazaar in aid of St. John's.
Eighty-one of her years have been passed in
Australia, and in the early days she and
her husband, travelling by cart, visited
every then-known goldfield in the State.
Jean Ileathcote, the little fair-liaired slip
of Communism, whose nose is powdered
with freckles in the right way, has a great
admirer in Senator Walter Kingsmill. Not
that lie admires her works or her words, but
her delivery of the latter has charmed his
ear. Her good English, her careful diction
and her smooth voice are truly remarkable,
and are, although Jean might not like this
stressed, probably a heritage from her grand-
father, the John Wyndham Ileathcote.
graduate of Oxford, for some years a Church
of England minister in Queensland and
later connected with the Unitarian Church
in Liverpool-street.
The very small boy was having his first
lesson in anatomy. The kindergarten teacher
had made the class point to their heads,
eyes, mouths, shoulders, stomachs. Then she
asked the little newcomer to do it all by
himself. He did it gravely, hesitated when
he came to stomach, then ran to her and
whispered : “But please I don’t know where
my bowels are. Mother says she always
keeps them moving.”
Brisbane babbles :
The Governor and Lady Goodwin leave for Stan-
thorpe shortly and will sojourn at Woodlands, the
late W. Pike’s home, until they take boat for the
Old Country after their five years of Queensland.
Christmas and New Year celebrations kept them busy.
His Ex. went to the General Hospital and had a talk
with many of the 513 patients. Lady Goodwin
looked in at the Mater Hospital, where the wards
had been charmingly decorated by the sisters. At
the Mater Children’s Hospital Archbishop Duhig
took the gifts from the laden Christmas trees to
hand them to the little ones.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin had a dinner party
at Government House to Dr. and Mrs. W. N. Robert-
son, Dr. and Mrs. S. F. McDonald, Dr. and Mrs. D.
A. Cameron,, Arnold Robertson and Joan Robertson,
the E. K. Tulleys, Mrs. E. T. Bell and Patricia Bell’
Mr. and Mrs. A. H. C. Palmer, Rodney Macdonald,
Madge Macdonald, Dorothy Hawthorn, G. B. Halford’
Norah Halford, Kivas Tully and Dr. P. J. Kerwim
The proceeds of the Strathnaver Ball amounted
to over £500; the cheque was presented to Arch-
bishop Sharp, for the Missions to Seamen, by the
P. and O.’s manager, M. J. Scott.
At. St. Andrew’s Presbyterian Church, Allen
Graham Harding married Marion Nicolson. The
bride, who was given away by her father, was in
white bridal satin and Brussels-net veil. Mrs.
S. J. Ross, the bride’s sister, was matron of honor;
she and Joan Harding were dressed alike in peach
satin beauty with peach cellophane hat. Jim
Nicholson was trainbearer in a white satin suit.
The Palm Court at the Canberra saw the feasting,
and Mrs. B. Morton, the bride’s aunt, received.
Charles Oakey married Alma Florence Bowden
of Bridestowe, Biaara, at the bride’s home. The
bride, who was given away by her father, was in
ivory crgpe de Chine and embroidered tulle veil.
Miss L. Bowden, in pink cr6pe de Chine, ’maided.
Peggy, daughter of Dr. Chauncey, of Brisbane, is
leaving for the south to fulfil a dancing engage-
ment with E. J. Tait for one month. She hopes to
return to her Brisbane pupils at the end of that
period.


ď
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caultieia,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OP QUEENSLAND.
O.S. No. 211 of 1931.
Mr. Justice Henchman
Mr. Justice E. A. Douglas.
IN THE MATTER of “The Companies Acts 1863
to 1913’’ and
IN THE MATTER of The Primary Producers Bank
of Australia Limited in Voluntary Liquidation
under the Supervision of the Supreme Court of
Queensland.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that His Honor Mr.
Justice Webb has directed a meeting of the share-
holders of the abovenamed Company to be summoned
pursuant to the above statute for the purpose of
ascertaining their wishes as to the following:—
(a) What monetary consideration, if any, Robert
Harold Cumming and Ralph Barnes Ford the Liquid-
ators of the said Company shall be at liberty to
pay to ex-officers of the Company in lieu of leave
accrued and not enjoyed.
(b) What portions of salary, if any, which were
deducted from the salaries of the ex-officers of the
said Company pursuant to the rationing scheme of
the Bank in anticipation of leave not enjoyed the
said Liquidators shall be at liberty to refund to the
said ex-officers.
(c) What pension gratuity, if any, the Liquidators
shall be at liberty to continue to pay to the widow
of William Moffat the late General Manager of the
said Company.
(d) What moneys, if any, the said Liquidators
shall be at liberty to apply to the repatriation of
ex-officers of the Company from outside branches to
their home towns.
(e) What advances, if any, the said Liquidators
shall be at liberty to make to ex-officers of the
Company in necessitous circumstances owing to
the Liquidation of the said Company such advances,
if any, to be made against amounts standing to the
credits of the said ex-officers.
(f) To determine the nature and extent of the
assistance to be allowed the Liquidators in the work
of liquidation.
(g) And to receive a report from the Liquidators.
AND that such meeting will be held on Monday
the first day of February 1932 at eleven o’clock in
the forenoon at the Registered Office of the said
Company 270-274 Queen Street Brisbane in the
State of Queensland at which time and place all
the shareholders of the said Company are requested
to attend. The said Judge has appointed Frederick
William Mole of Brisbane Public Curator of Queens-
land to act as Chairman of such meeting.
DATED the twenty-third day of December, 1931.
Rb’ FORD IING j Joint Lic luidators.
Forms of Proxy for the meeting may be obtained
from the nearest Branch Office of the Bank.
The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate" cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
THE MAGIC
OF
GOLD!
Western Australia’s Record.
Largest monthly output for 11 years.
The fact that November’s gold yield for
Western Australia is the best for 11 years,
makes bright reading. The output—s3,B69oz.,
valued nominally at, £228,823, but in reality
substantially more —was 20,1610 z. in excess of
the yield for November of last year, and
brought the 11 months’ production to 461,3560 z.,
worth with exchange premium, approximately
£2,500,000. With another month to go the
yield is an improvement of 44,9870 z. on the
whole of last year. November yield was the
best since December, 1920, when 53,9160 z.
were produced, although the value of the latter
was a long way short of that of the gold just
produced.
DON’T EXPERIMENT IN DOUBTFUL
TERRITORY WITH YOUR ADVERTISING.
CHOOSE A PROSPEROUS MARKET
AND USE THE PERTH
twilit ©HU#
for your 1932 advertising campaign.
big in size, CIRCULATION AND OUT-
LOOK—in FACT, THE IDEAL PAPER FOR
THE ADVERTISERS.
HOUSEHOLD PAGES 'SO
> SOCIAL NOTES-ALL
lady's LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD.
„ Etc. Etc. Etc, it
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES O-
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral 800for P[?]
Buckley e-Nunn, Lrimited.
So[?] so M[?]
Phillip Island, in the weather we have
been enjoying lately, is an ideal spot for a
holiday. There are not many dull moments
for a temporary resident who wishes to- see
all the place has to offer. Twice a day a
smart little yacht or two and the steamer
that transfers passengers from Stony Point
maike trips around this part of Western
Port. The boats slow down while the pas-
sengers glimpse the thousands of brown
seals that bask on the rocks at the entrance
to Bass Strait, or inquisitively dive around
looking for titbits thrown by the passengers.
There are motor runs all over the island,
ports of call, as it were, being the shelly
beach of Rhyll, the mutton-bird atnd penguin
rookeries and the haunts of the native bear,
who holds himself aloof and takes no inter-
est whatever in public affairs. Possibly
Teddy is grateful for his security, but from
the treetops he looks down upon visitors
with an air of remote detachment. He has,
of course, troubles of his own; this year
an epidemic has killed a number. Not long
ago many bears were transferred to French
Island across the bay, and there they are
thriving and multiplying.
The Chatterer was one of a party that
went to the surf beach after sunset to see
the penguins come home. These quaint
creatures are timid, and it is with great
caution that one must follow their exit from
the sea to their rookeries among the coarse
grass tussocks, where also the mutton-birds
rear their young. These penguins are the
smallest of their kind in the world, being
rarely taller than 15 inches. If they know
that humans are around they remain in the sea
until the coast is clear, even if it be a matter
of hours. Following instructions, the Chat-
terer’s party took up a position right in
front of the burrows, and remained hidden
and speechless. Presently a little army
came slowly waddling over the sands, only
their white breasts showing in the dusk.
They approached close enough for one to
touch them, but even the kiddies of the
party refrained, being fascinated by the
serious gait of the funny little black-coated
figures. Later the party went among the bur-
rows, where were penguins of all ages, from
fluffy tiny ones like cygnets to crusty old vet-
erans, who were very much annoyed at the
intrusion. were also to be
seen, but their babies are not yet on view.
The penguin lays two eggs, which usually
develop into a pigeon pair, but the mutton-
jjdrd, evidently a believer in family limitation,
lays only one.
Mrs. Eleanor Latham, wife of the new
Attorney-General, whose portrait by Broo-
thorn is reproduced, is a tall, dark la # dy
with an im-
pressive man-
ner, who pro-
vided a deco-
r a t i v e ad-
junct to her
husband’s
e 1 ectioneering
meetings dur-
ing the re-
cent campaign.
The daughter
of a sclxool-
master at
Northcote in
this State —
she was a
Miss Tobin—
she inherited
scholastic
talents and is
a graduate of
Melb. Uni.
Her interests,
outside poli-
tics and her beautiful home at Morven, are
foreign languages and gardening—her garden
is a picture.
Among holiday visitants to Phillip Island
are the J. J. L. Booths, of the Western
District, and their guests, Miss Austin and
Nancy Lyle. Miss Lyle flew from Melbourne
in her Moth ’plane. Miss Gilman Jones,
of the G.G.S., is spending her holidays at
the Golf House. The G. A. Rowells, of Can-
terbury, with their two daughters, are in
residence in their own house. A number of
Grammar School boys are in camp at Sum-
merland, under Mr. Taylor, and the Hampton
Boy Scouts are under canvas in the same
vicinity. Mrs. and Miss Harrison, of Bal-
larat, "are at Bay View, and Mr. and Mrs.
A. Shaw and their son Gavin, also of Bal-
larat, are at the Isle of Wight Hotel, which
also shelters the Deputy Town Clerk of Mel-
bourne; H. C. Wootton, Mrs. Wootton and
their daughter.
Flinders, like all other places on the sea,
drew a full complement of visitors during
the holiday season. Many citizens have
built holiday homes there. At St. Andrew’s,
which adjoins the golf links, Surgeon Alan
Newton, his wife and family, Alex. Cameron,
of the Tramway Board, and his wife, the
Herbert Austins, of Geelong, the James
Shaws and their daughter Mollie and Mr. and
Mrs. Dennistoun Wood were among the
guests. Mrs. Frank Apperly, who journeyed
to Flinders with other members of the Play-
writers’ Co. to give some performances,
stayed with Mrs. M. B. Sproule, and “Pene-
lope’s Elopement,” the rhymed play by
Isabel Handley, was staged in the garden
of Palafia, Mrs. Sproule’s home. Mrs.
Apperley’s own play, “Guests at Garrygrath,”
written under her stage name of Anne Cop-
pinger, was also produced by the wander-
ing mummers, who travelled by caravan. Dr.
Frank Apperly was at the Legacy Club
camp at Balnarring, where several lads,
sons of deceased soldiers, were enjoying
themselves.
New Year’s Day’s hot sun made the wear-
ing of summery attire imperative at the
Y.R.C. meeting, and Flemington saw a tine
parade of filmy frocks. Even if the women
didn’t feel cool, their diaphanous draperies
and shady nut-covers filled tweed-clad heavy-
hatted males with envy. Figured and floral-
patterned materials were grealy in favor ; so
were large hats, very simply trimmed. Rear-
Admiral Hyde was there with Mrs. Hyde,
whose patterned pink and amber went with
a rose straw hat. Mrs. Leroy Burnham,
lately returned from England, looked smart
in navy blue and white, and Sandra Shackell,
another recent home-comer, combined a
sandalwood crepe-de-Cliine frock with a
mushroom-pink jacket and small felt hat.
Mrs. Rupert Downes was in china blue and
white, and her blue hat was wreathed with
white roses. General Gliauvel and his lady,
the Lauchlan Mackinnons, Mrs. A. V. Kew-
ney and Mrs. Rupert Greene were others
who started 1932 with a day at the races.
The W. Mortills, of Hawthorn, invited 50
friends to help them welcome 1932, the
party taking the form of a dance. Decora-
tions were in pale pink, carried out in
hydrangeas and carnations, and the hostess
wore a pink gown with satin bodice on long-
lines blending into gold-net flounces. She
defied the fates by carrying a peacock-
feather fan. Among the dancers were Bel-
gian Consul Rene Vanderkelen, the George
Bells, Mr. and Mrs. R. Hamilton and Mr.
and Mrs. G. Gill.
At their home at Caulfield the F. W.
Eggleston couple,, with their daughter Jean
and son Egan, put on cheer on New Year’s
night for many of their friends. Short
plays and a wee opera were wedged in
between bridge and dancing. The hostess
had some ripple of diamente about her black
chiffon and lace gown, and Jean’s blue ninon
had all-over tracery of white.
Looking out of this window is Mary,
daughter of
the I). S. Mur-
rays, of Clive-
den Mansions,
a society miss
with a repu-
tation as a
smart dresser
who has re-
cently turned
her attention
to aviation.
She is already
a very skilful
pilot and has
won no fewer
than eight
trophies in
Aero Club
contests.
With Miss F.
Thompson and
Betty Fai r-
bairn she beat
all-comers,
male and female, in formation flying.
New Year’s Day saw tlie conclusion of
the South Yarra tennis tournament. The
gallery was thinned by the warmth. Mrs.
Angus Robertson, who had the previous day
won the ladies’ singles, was an onlooker
for a time with her husband and wee sou.
Norman Brookes, who has completely re-
covered from his accident of some months
ago and i.s able to play again, was partnered
by his daughter Hersey in the mixed-doubles
handicap. They were defeated by a close
margin. Mrs. Robertson and Mr. Robin-
son were beaten in the doubles by R, G.
Tonkin and Miss Hoddle-Wrigley. Cynthia
and Elaine Brookes were keen followers of
the games; also Vera de Bavay, whose
georgette frock and straw hat were of del-
phinium blue; Dr. Alva Boyd and Mr. and
Mrs. Bindley Baker.
For her wedding with Lars Peter Jensen,
of Gippsland, at All Saints’ Church, East
St. Kilda, Joyce, elder daughter of the late
John Mackey and his lady, wore vellum-hued
satin and a tulle veil of the same tint.
Bishop Cranswick, of Gippsland, tied the
knot. A trio of maids wore green chiffon
frocks and straw hats to match and carried
sheaves of blossoms in pastel tones. The
after-celebrations were staged by the Mackey
lady at the home of the bride’s uncle and
aunt, Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Bates, of Balwyn.
Mrs. Leonard Quinn (Sunday Baillieu
that was) will take her second plunge into
matrimony at St. Paul’s Cathedral on the
13th. Her new partner is John Reid, who
hails from the Apple Isle.
Pianist Eunice Garland undertook a matri-
monial duet with fiddler Reginald Bradley
at St. Pat’s Cathedral. The bride’s attire
was deep ivory satin, with an antique lace
veil, and she carried a sheaf of Christmas
lilies. Two bridesmaids wore chiffon of prim-
rose hue and hats of the same tint. Mr. and
Mrs. Arthur Garland entertained after-
wards at the Victoria.
It is gladioli time in Melbourne, and the
flowers flaunt their beauty in gardens and
florist shops, and on the stalls about the
pavements and arcades. At Mt. Evelyn,
where Major Money grows ’em commer-
cially, the farm is thrown open to the public,
as last year, and a collection made for
charity. Captain F. C. Alsop, who also cul-
tivates acres of such bulbs at The Patch,
near Monbulk, invites the world and his
wife to inspect his crop at the week-ends
on the same terms. The growers say there
are now over 100 varieties of gladioli, but
the old-fashioned red ones are still extant,
thank the Lord!
Rita Miller, a Ballarat girl, who made
her debut in grand opera with the Firm in
1924 and who has since studied! under
Madame Dink Gilly in Paris, is at present
singing principal roles in eight operas at the
Toulon Opera House.
Harrison Moore and his lady and Kate
Pearce have returned fro-m Shanghai, where
they attended the conference of the Institute
of Pacific Relations. Mrs. Ernest Scott,
another delegate, is remaining for a while
longer in China.
Sir Alan Anderson, the bigwig of the
Orient Company, is coming to Australia this
year with Lady Anderson. They are dating
their arrival for the opening of the Sydney
bridge, so probably that will be the date set
for Morna MacCormiek’s wedding to their
son.
A just-back rushed in to drop one of those
new lacy hand-knitted jumpers into this
Chatterer’s stocking. She says they are
the newest thing* and advises that this gera-
nium-red one be worn with a mouse-grey cor-
duroy suit —corduroy is terribly smart just
now. As the day was one of those dull
ones in Christmas week, she had wrapped
herself in a black velvet coat that had a
cape effect and a high fur collar. This fur
was cunningly brought down into a cross-
over effect that finished at the waist on the
left side. The cross-over effect is seen on
everything, she declares. The fussy frock, she
prophesies, is doomed; the coat frocks once
again take the stage. These are on straight,
almost severe, lines, often with a seam down
the front, and very little spread below.
Buttons are on the backs, the hips, the
fronts of these frocks. Fur and fins (little
pointed bits on cuffs and fronts) are the two
outstanding features of all the new coats;
hats to be worn with them are small and
carried on the right side, showing a large ex-
panse of waved hair on the left. Velvet is
the favorite fabric for these lids.
Adelaide answers :
The pioneers held their annual Commemoration
Day luncheon at the Glenelg Town Hall, in heat
that must have recalled some of the discomforts of
the early days of the State. The Mayor of Glenelg
(Mr. W. Fisk) entertained the old men in the
main hall, and the Mayoress had the old ladies
in the banqueting-room ; all the guests had put over
80 years behind them.
His Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthven motored up from
Victor Harbor for the occasion, and later in the
afternoon went on to the races at Cheltenham, where
the heat caused several women to collapse. Lady
Hore-Ruthven was wearing a pale pink and primrose
chiffon floral toilette, with a fawn hat. Mrs. Lionel
Hill chose a powder-blue patterned crepe de Chine
with a hat to match. The Mayoress (Mrs. C. R.
J. Glover) wore a biscuit marocain frock and
a fawn hat banded with brown. The Sowden lady
was in a brown figured crepe de Chine and a small
straw hat. White was very much worn, the Moulden
lady appearing in a white satin ensemble.
On a day when the mercury soared up to 114.6,
there was a wedding of more than ordinary pro-
fessional interest. The bride, Pepita Saunders, is
a full-blown Adelaide solicitor; the bridegroom,
Keith Tweeddale, is a dentist at Mildura. His
parents and sisters came over for the ceremony from
Maryborough (Vic.). The reception was held at
the Pier Hotel, Glenelg.
Victor Harbor has been crowded during the heat
wave. The viee-regals are at Culroy, the Ban-
Smiths’ seaside residence.
Westralia whispers
Petunias made a joyous show at the Derby and
the cannas were tall and splendid as ever, but the
hydrangeas had the smiles scorched off their pink
and blue faces.
It was a dressy Derby. Miss Northmore chose navy
for her gown and hat; Mrs. Ernest Lee Steere favored
a delphinium hue; Mrs. Ednie Brown swung a little
ninon coat with a spray of flowers on the back of
the neck; Mrs. Temperley’s ensemble also included
a contrasting coatee; Mrs. J. P. Dwyer wore a
flowered gown and velvet-swathed millinery; gold
leaves were scattered upon Betty McCulloch’s black
marocain; big lemon flowers patterned Mrs. Morlet’s
blue chiffons; Daphne de Bernales wore pink diagonal
stripes allied to white satin; Mrs. Dakin’s cool
white and blue suggested willow-pattern china; Mrs.
Athol Cross wore a blue hat with her floral frock;
Mrs. Eustace Cohen topped her almond georgettes
with white millinery; Bess Edwards held the eye
with her bouffant white taffetas and knot of hair
upon her neck; Mrs. Mansfield chose mustard and
black, and daughter Roma wore a blue necklace
with her beige frock;- Elizabeth Kerr-Pearse had a
gold band on her hat and a blue-and-white frock;
Nell Connaughton was in pink; Maude Mitchell’s
shell-pink confection was worn with a pink hat and
an ivory necklace; Ariel McGhie was in beige
broderie muslin; Judy Black’s flowered frock was
autumn-tinted.
For the Railway Stakes the weather imp sent
along a day like a bath of warm flat beer. Though
there was no public holiday, a large crowd watched
an outsider trample their money underfoot in the
big race. Mrs. Marillier wore pearls with her pink
and cream frock; Mrs. Stawell chose black and
white figurings ; Mrs. Arthur Francis had a nodding
plume above her navy laces; Mrs. McKellar Hall
attached a white yoke to her green speckled voile ;
Mrs. Hilton Wood wore cream broderie; gold, red
and blue were mingled upon Mrs. Broadhurst’s
frock; Mrs. Jim Williamson chose figured pussy-
willow ; Mrs. Frank Leslie wore pink millinery with
a cool pinky voile; amber-patterned chiffons floated
about Mrs. Brum White; Mrs. Edgar Grant sported
a little pink coat over her frock; Mrs. J., L. B.
Weir and her daughter Mrs. Ctackburn both showed
their preference for brown laces; Betty de Bernales
was all in Nile-green ; sulphur-shaded pipings relieved
Mrs. Lyon Johnston’s all-white outfit.
For her marriage with John Lefroy, Maida Sharkey
chose a gown of fluffy white organdie. Godets of
frills made a fanciful flutter upon her long bouffant
skirt, and her tulle veil was held in position by a
knot of orange buds. Sister Peggy attended in
sunset-pink 'organdie; narrow ruching adorned the
neck and hemline and roses nestled on the corsage.
Pink mittens, a pink feather on a blue hat and a
bouquet of blue and pink hydrangeas were acces-
sories.
Joyce Burridge has become affianced to Ernest
Robert Lawson, of South Australia.
Tassie toots *
El wick was a picture for the Turf Club’s meeting.
Wide-brimmed hats and a few quite light and frilly
turn-outs helped the effect, though the tailored suit
in its many varieties was still predominant. Among
the throng were Mrs. Lloyd Oldmeadow, the V. R.
Rattens, the E. Brettingham Moores, the W. B.
Propstings, Mrs. W. Wolfhagen, Mrs. Normal!
Ferguson, the A. J. Millers, Misses Alys Jones, Joi
Chapman, the Tinning girls, Miss Thomas (Melb.),
and Ninie Gibson.
The Lyceum Club brought out all its spare tea-
cups for the Christmas-gift party, at which members
are expected to present a trifle to embellish the
club. The occasion was utilised to welcome back
Mrs. Puddiconibe, and Marie Landon and her mother,
Mrs. Landon-Hodgkinson, entertained the guests with
musical monologues.
The Royal Society had a special meeting to extend
the glad hand to Curator Clive Lord and his wife
on their return from England. Mr. Lord gave a
brief sketch of his trip. He was the Tas. represen-
tative at the Conference of the British Assoc., in
London.
Among visitors from the mainland are knight Mungo
MacCallum and his lady, who are at Ferntree;
Professor L. F. and Mrs. Giblin, Mrs. Duckett and
family (Melbourne) and Mrs. Gore-Jones (Sydney).
May Kingsmill, now a full-blown M.D., after 10
years in the Cold Country is home again for the
present, before starting practice on the mainland.
Her aunt and her sister Catherine came out with her
in the Ormonde.
The Dobson lady, widow of the late Lambert
Dobson, for long Chief Justice in the Speck, is on
her way out for a visit to old scenes, with her two
daughters, Mrs. Hopgood and Miss May Dobson.


CONSTIPATION
KILLS THE
JOYS OF LIFE
At the first sign of Constipation-
take FIGSEN. Figsen is as prompt
as it is gentle and natural. No
purging. No griping pain. No
unpleasant after-effects. Figsen
acts gently on the intestinal
muscles and helps them to per-
form their natural functions. Fig-
sen is easy to take and will not
upset the most delicate stomach.
For yourself—for the kiddies—
always keep a tin of Figsen handy.
IWJSL
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
Your Chemist
sells and
recommends
©
fd
ď
fdf
Via
AUCKLAND
N.Z.
SUVA and HONOLULU to
Vancouver. . . This is the attrac-
tive trans-Pacific route of British
vessels of the C-A Line.
Each of these ports has its indi-
vidual charm—all offer the
traveller unlimited possibilities
for enjoyment.
For further particulars apply
Union S. S. Co., Ltd.
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
\ ’»• • - #'• ii i•, ,-v . ■* f ■■ a i ■ >, * I- . • f ■ V:
A Couple of Facts
for
Business Men l
Greater Brisbane Contains
of Queensland’s
Entire Population,
* * *
In Greater Brisbane
(The (louder.
has a Circulation which is
approximately
GS%
GREATER
than that of its Morning
Contemporary,
H- * *
You can get more of these interest-
ing facts regarding the Queensland
Market, from :
Che Courier.
The Courier Building, Queen-street,
Brisbane,
Sydney representative:
ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 PITT-STREET.
’Phone 85007.
Melbourne Representative:
L. S. MARKS, Argus Building, Elizabeth
and Latrobe Streets. 'Phone F 3908.
London Agents: H. C. GRELLIER, 107
Fleet-street.
Double-bungers
A FANE-LOFTING
STORY OF MIDDLE-AGE AND A ROMANCE.
•‘X/OU see, it’s the pants.” A vague
Y weariness sounded in Mrs. Tinson’s
voice. “Our Jim’s cruel hard on
pants—he always was.”
“Boys are careless, aren't they?” Mrs.
Gale began. “And times are so difficult”
“Young Jim’s more than careless,” Mrs.
Tinson interrupted, an edge of anger on
the weariness ; “he’s a roughie—that’s what
he is, Mrs. Gale. What I always say is, if
you get a bit of material you can run up a
couple of shirts in no time, and they’ll last
as long as shirts are meant to last. But
when it comes to pants Look, I've
known young Jim go out in the morning
with a new pair of these cheap pants on
and come home with ’em in ribbons!” Warm-
ing to her subject Mrs. Tinson became im-
pressive. “You must ’ave quality in pants.
There’s no arguing about it—you must ’ave
it. A man’s-suit that’s been made by a
good tailor- —a suit that might be called
worn out by them that’s better off —why,
you could get two good pairs o’ pants off
it. Pants that’d last —even on our Jim.”
Under this haze of volubility Mrs. Gale
was remembering the drawer in Stephen’s
chest —the never-used drawer that was the
tomb of old clothes. Clothes that were really
old, over which the last word —“Might do
for a day’s fishing”—had been said. She
had no jurisdiction over this drawer; it was
peculiarly Stephen’s, and he was welcome
to it. But he never did go fishing now;
and poor Mrs. Tinson’s need was obviously
great.
“Climbing trees, and running races in their
billy-carts, and sitting at the top of the
Bluff and seeing which can slide down to
the bottom first and risk breaking his neck
—you’d wonder how a boy could think of
all Jim’s ways of wearin’ out his pants,
Airs. Gale.”
“But don’t you get nervous, Mrs. Tinson?
It all sounds horribly dangerous.”
“No. Not now.” The faint weariness
came back into Mrs. Tinson’s voice. “I
used to, but —well, the way I look at it—
it might be double-bungers, you know.”
Mrs. Gale stared blankly at her. “Double-
bungers! What on earth is that?”
“Don’t you know double-bungers?” Mrs.
Tinson smiled pityingly. “It’s a sort of
firework- —goes off twice, once at each end.
That’s why they call ’em —but surely you’ve
’eard about young Bob Martin and ’is
double-bungers ?”
Mrs. Gale shook her head. That grey
suit of Steve’s —he wore it for ages, the
material was so strong. It was probably in
the drawer
“Oh, he was awful with ’em. An ordinary
double-hunger was no good to Master Bob —
lie wanted a kick in it, he did. Used to put
’em in jam-tins and seal down the lid —put
-’em in drain-pipes and kerosene-tins. My
word”—Mrs. Tinson seemed to smack
her lips—“you’d think the roof o’ the world
was coming off when they exploded. Seemed
to blow the whole township to Kingdom
Come, they did.” She paused reminiscently.
“But one fine day they blew the top off
Master Bob’s finger, for a start. And
another day they trigd to blow half his face
away—eight months poor Mrs. Martin had
him as an out-patient at the hospital. They
did save the sight of the eye, but that wasn’t
Bob's fault!”
“How dreadful! Poor boy!”
“Yes. And he’s at ’em again, they tell
me.” Mrs. Tinson nodded darkly. “You’d
think it’d be a warning, wouldn’t you? But
not a bit of it. Like drink, double-bungers
are to Master Bob. They’ll blow his bead
off this time, and make a job of it —you see
if they don’t, Mrs. Gale.”
Yes, the grey suit was in the drawer —
at the back, of course, and at the bottom,
and idiotically folded. There w r as that old
overcoat, too, with the rip down the back.
It was a good hard cloth ; even Jim would
have some difficulty in wearing it through.
Nothing else any good. But, after her
search, the drawer looked as if a hurricane
had been through it. She’d come back and
tidy it when she’d given Mrs. Tinson the
parcel. Returning, it was better to begin
at the beginning, she thought—empty the
drawer and fold everything properly. Stephen
was an old sloven to throw his cast-off
clothes in higgledy-piggledy like this. He
ought to
Something hard, pushed back into the far
corner, right at the bottom of the drawer.
Funny. She drew it out.
A packet of letters tied up with ribbon,
the top one addressed to Steve at his office.
A big slanting female handwriting, rather
affected.
she sat back on her heels, staring bewil-
dered at the packet. What an extraordinary
thing! Half-idly she undid the packet, and
looked at the envelopes. All addressed to
Steve at his office, all in the same hand-
writing. She took the top letter out of
its envelope and unfolded it.
Reading it, her eyes narrowed in amaze-
ment. Suddenly they burned in anger, a
swift flame that died away at once, leaving
only a bleak desolation of despair in its
place. The room, the street, the world was
stilled for these moments while she picked
up these letters, one by one, and read them
all, her white face a mask of pain and scorn.,
In the end she tied up the packet again
in its ribbon, her fingers feeling cold and
lifeless. H'er gaze wandered haggardly
round the little dressing-room, through the
doorway into the bedroom beyond. Stephen
—her Stephen, of all men in the world!
Kind, loved Stephen, who for all these tran-
quil years had been the other half of her
spirit, the other half of herself! For a
long moment her empty eyes stared unsee-
ing at the wall behind the chest of drawers,
while this stillness stirred gradually to angry
violent life again.
A soul-friendship, full of endearments,
reeking with comfort and commiseration for
the dull monotony of Stephen’s life —mono-
tony, here at home with her! Some sort of
a would-be flapper, she judged, well into
her thirties and hanging on like death to
this one last chance of an affair, of some
kick in the menacing years. And not even
a real affair—no pluck for any fiery up-
heaval that might scorch her fingers—-a
wretched fiddling betrayal that stole all the
bloom and sweetness from the tranquil years,
making watchful and distrusting the poisoned
heart, trampling on all the careless happy
flowers.
And Stephen kissing her every morning
before he ran for the train that took him
to this fool! Her heart seemed suddenly
to burn in implacable hate and contempt.
It was a monstrous treachery, a wound
that nothing in life could ever heal. It
was going on now —some of the letters were
dated and were quite recent. To-morrow
Stephen would get up from the breakfast-
table and kiss her before he hurried for the
train —hurried to this affair, this affair of
words and perhaps other kisses, of comfort
and romance, of relief from home’s mono-
tony !
A wild storm of tears seized and engulfed
her, shaking the world with a sobbing
despair. She must divorce him and make
an end—divorce dear old Stephen, Teddo’s
father! The sorrow and bitter pain over-
whelmed her, washing away all coherent
and incoherent thought in a sea of bewildered
hopelessness. This passed, giving place to
a dreary semblance of control. She washed
her face and went lifelessly downstairs.
The hours seemed to press on her with
their listless, intolerable weight. What to
do—what to do! The duster fell from her
hand; she found herself staring forlornly
at the window-. Should she go out? She
had meant to bear this bitterness in silence
and solitude until she could confront Stephen
and make an end. But now it was unbear-
able. The house hurt her, was trampling
on her heart.
Shutting the gate behind her and feeling
the breeze in her still-burning face, she
was conscious of a dim bracing of the spirit.
An hour ago life had been all darkness;
now
Subconsciously she bowed to Mr. Crowley
in his garden at the corner. Coatless, un-
shaved and evidently very pleased with him-
self, he came to the hedge and grinned at
her.
“I stole a day from the office, Mrs. Gale,”
he said chuckling like a schoolboy wagging
it. “It was such a bosker gardening-day
after the rain that I—well, I couldn’t resist
it. Have you got a minute to spare?” His
dancing eyes were half-pleading.
“I —I think so,” she heard herself saying.
“I don’t think I was going anywhere.”
“Come and have a look at my garden,”
he implored. “It’s tiptop.” He opened
his gate briskly. “You never saw anything
like my begonias and hydrangeas. And the
roses simply”
To her Mr. Crowley seemed to have a
perfectly fiendish garden, full of little rock-
eries and horrible plaster figures holding
windmills; crazy pavements led to tiny bush-
houses and arbors, to a little stone-kerbed
well or a little potting-shed as infuriatingly
neat and tidy as a drawing-room. Nooks
abounded; wherever one’s weary eyes turned
some nook with a plaster figure holding wind-
sails leapt into tidy self-conscious being.
But his delight and pride in all this ban-
ished criticism. He explained all his gadgets
and dodges, brooding lovingly over their
efficiency; he showed her his roses and
begonias (which were beautiful; he could
really garden as well as potter), and in some
indefinable way he and his toys seemed to
comfort her.
“It keeps you young,” he told her at the
gate. “Thank you for having a look at it,
Mrs. Gale. Remember me to Steve.”
In the street the packet of letters rushed
at her like a grey wind, blowing all gardens
and schoolboy-men to nothingness. She
would go home —home ! —and wait in silence
for Stepheu, to throw his letters and her
broken heart at him and make an end.
In the hall, Teddo, home from school, was
hanging up his hat and satchel.
He, too, greeted her with a grin in which
a certain persuasive quality seemed to lurk.
“I say, Mum,” he said, “give us a bob, will
you ?”
“I don’t think so,” she told him. “Why do
you want a shilling in the middle of the
week? You got your pocket-money on
Friday, didn’t you?”
“Yes. But”
“But . what? You spent it all,' I sup-
pose.”
“Yes. But I didn’t know”
“Well, then, you’ll have to w-ait till next
Friday, won’t you?”
Teddo’s face fell, but not with conviction.
“Look, Mum,” he went on. “Ainsleys’ have
got a bosker bob packet of stamps in their
window —a full set of Trinidad and some
Guatemalan and those Costa Rican I’ve been
wanting for donkeys’ years. And Snowy
Gerald says he’ll swap his Irish tuppenny
for two of the Guatemalan if I can get ’em.”
In the end she opened her bag and her
purse and gave Teddo his shilling. “But,
mind, only this once,” she warned him.
“You must learn to keep within your”
But Teddo had shut the gate and was
running to Ainsleys’.
Then silence, bleak, heavy silence, came
down again. Teddo would have to learn to
live without his dad. . .. Huddled in the
window-seat she fingered the packet of
letters. Stephen would be home soon. Here
she was awaiting him, his treachery in her
hand.
There he was, coming up the hill. Her
eyes flashed suddenly in that burning anger
again. There he was !
Walking stiffly and slowly. The hill was
steep. Stephen looked frail, somehow-, and
somehow middle-aged. She could see his
face now, and the grey hair at his temples;
the lines the years had made; could see his
clear honest eyes. Her Stephen—all the
rich years of life together behind them an 1
safe in their hearts. He glanced at the
house and a lialf-smile touched his lips, mak-
ing him look younger and stronger.
A sudden thought caught at her mind —
gadgets and little plaster figures waving
windmills, stamps and soul-friendship. Toys,
playthings that held the years back. To
wear themselves out and pass, with all play-
things !
Slipping off the seat she sped upstairs as
she heard the gate-latch click. Swiftly she
opened the old-clothes drawer and put the
letters back in their place. She was down
in the hall again when hi,s key grated in
the lock.
It might have been double-hungers, she
thought, waiting tranquilly for the door to
open.
Fool’s Idyll.
The thousand deaths men suffer for her
scorn
Carve her cold lips with laughter; long
ago,
In Rome, light ladies, come to see men torn
Of beasts, smiled even so.
Her, jester I, and least of all her slaves.
What wild whim moves her from her arctic
pride
That the queen seeks her fool, and comfort
craves,
With eyes whose dreams have died?
The queen seeks counsel of her jester, leaves
The lion footstool and the lapis throne —
Simple and sad as any child of Eve’s
Who has too human grown!
She, who saw not my soul’s bared, bitter
sword
’Neath the clown’s cloak of ruffling
ribaldry—
She, who has taken all without reward,
Seeks one last gift of me.
Yet, on my hands and at my heart, the scars
That were life’s wounds and love’s, long
since grown dumb.
Rue, and dead roses, and forgotten stars
Are all my treasure’s sum !
What malice have the peering Fates pre-
pared?
What subtle sorrow at life’s crossways set?
What mesh, rose-hid, to hold a fool ensnared
For the gods’ laughter? Yet,
Lady, the queen commands, the fool obeys!
The wheel has come full circle with the
years.
I gave you hate’s wild laughter all my days;
Pray you, take now love’s tears!
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


Wonderful Books for Every Man & Woman Posted Right to Your Door
KEJEPIIMG FIT
Gloricfcua, radiant health to those
who want /it. It is yours if you are
willing to \ work for it. There is
nothing in'life mo/re valuable. It is
worth more than a fortune. The
world’s richest man is poor if he
lacks health.
You canmot buy health. Drug
stores do not keep it. No medicine
of any kind can give it to you. It
comes only'with the knowledge and
practise of proper living. You must
know the latws of Hife. When and
how to eat. How too exercise.
KEEPING FIT is a complete intro-
duction to fihe study of proper living.
It not only .gives ?full instruction in
exercise, eating, btreathing, etc., but
also devotes numerous chapters to
commonsense treatment of such
troubles as asthma. constipation,
heart disease, diabetes, nerves,
tuberculosis and-many others.
Cloth bound; iltestrated; 226 pages;
exercise chart. fPr.ice, 10/-; postage
6d. extra.
OSCAR WILDE’S
“SALOME”
Illustrated by /Beardsley. Oscar
Wilde’s one outstanding heritage of
almost fiendish emotion. All the
power of paganism beats and throbs
against the ascetic heart of early
Christianity.
The beautiful, voluptuous, dancer-
of-the-seven veils falls in love with
the prophet John. Love means only
one thing to her—-embraces, ardent
kisses, the fulfilment of her sexual
destiny. She has learned her ter-
rible power from the eyes of the men
who watched her dance. But her
wiles are powerless against the man
of Faith. He repulses her, and heaps
calumny upon both Salome and her
mother. , .
How the proud and haughty
dancer achieves her desire to kiss
the prophet’s lips; how she wields
her seductive grace to this one end
—revenge for the holy man’s in-
sults—makes this book the most
entertaining and fascinating drama
of human emotions —unbridled and
unrestrained. The story of a fiend-
ish impulse, which prompted the
wicked mind of a courtesan to re-
venge herself. Price, 3/6. V/e pay
postage. _ i
WAR, WINE AND
WOMEN,
Wilfred Saint-Mande. 555 pages.
15/-. We pay postage.
A British soldier who served on
the Western Fr ( ont throughout the
war tells his adventures in plain,
downright language. A revelation
to those who have never known the
realities of war. A fiercely intimate
reminder to those who passed
through its raging furnace.
PRACTICAL BIRTH
CONTROL.
Best and Authentic, 2/-
GOLDEN PASSION.
By Juanita Savage.
Between its pages the thrill of a lifetime
of reading awaits you. Before your very
eyes is unfolded a story of passion, intrigue
and romance. Past you, in a breath-taking
parade, sweeps one of the most beautiful,
yet" unprincipled, women of all times—a
woman of intense fascination. Here you will
find a story of scarlet days, when a mighty
lover drank of life and love. Price 7/6.
We pay postage.
«»« 3<.W!««»««■*
. Sic Knlu-m* BuHw»s,ilay* «•»•* -- ,
; 'true -tndtCWMn ' H ‘* r ' wU f'
.uxxi i» Wp
EK*
“J fioofc more 1 'Thrilling than
Fiction”
BURTON, ARABIAN
NIGHTS ADVENTURER
The Story of the diplojnat-
seholar adventurer who went
deeper into darkest Africa and
found adventure wherever he went,
and gained lasting fame by trans-
lation of “The Thousand and One
Nights Entertainment.” By Fair-
fax Downey. With numerous
illustrations. Price 10/- (postage
6d.).
THE MOST TALKED
OF BOOK OF THE
YEAR
fwp bird i/ynj/tT
; .1 .guide
to M Tm -
pov4 5; m
OF
jteftmj?! -
"mevilo: w C/TYIEV -
WHAT BIRD
IS THAT?
A REAL BIRD BOOK.
LAWO
HE
THE LAW O’ THE
LARIAT.
By OLIVER STRANGE.
6/6 (post 6d.), Total 7/-
“Law o’ the Lai'iat” is
the most readable of all
“Western” stories. Excite-
ment begins on page one and
never flags till the last page
is turned. No better novel
of the kind has appeared
this year.
700 AUSTRALIAN BIRDS IN NATURAL COLORS.
A guide to the birds of Australia. Illustrated in Natural Colors. By Neville W. Cayley, Member of the
Royal Australasian Ornithologists’ Union. With a preface by G. R. Thomas, Director of Education, t . • ■>
President of the Gould League of Bird Lovers, N.S.W. 375 pages, with 36 full-page plates m four colois and
other illustrations. SIZE 82 x 52 INCHES, 12/6 (POST 6d.), TOTAL. 13/-. ', ;fF
This book depicts in natural colors every known Australan bird—over 700 species. Where the sexe d
in coloration both are illustrated, so that nearly 900 birds are pictured. _ f
The letterpress includes particulars of distribution, nests, eggs and food, with identification .notes_apa.it
from coloration. Pronunciation and derivation of scientific names, according to the Royal Australasian uinitno-
iogists’ Union', are given. . .. rm ._V ■
A special feature of the book is the simplicity of arrangement, to ensure easy identification, lne P
are arranged in habitat groups; each group being further subdivided into smaller groups ngunng tic s
in comparative sizes and color values. , .
No book on birds has been published in any country giving such concise and valuable information and
such beautiful eolorplates at anything like the same price. .-/ : -• :■ ■■ - .__
NOW OBTAINABLE AT LAST—THE GREAT BOOK OF
SEX KNOWLEDGE FOR MEN AND WOMEN.
“SAFE COUNSEL”
By Prof. Jeffries, M.D., Ph.D.; Prof. A. U Nichols, A.M.; Dr. Emma F. A. Drake,
M.D., Ph.D.; and Zora S. Davis, Ph.D.
And have it Posted right to your very door for £1
Must every woman pay the price of a moment’s happiness in bitter tears and years of regret? Must
millions of homes be ruined—lovers and sweethearts driven apart—marriages totter to the brink of divorce—
the sacred joys of sex relations be denied? YES—just as long as men and women remain ignorant ot the
simple facts of life. , , ' „
An Unpardonable Sin is total ignorance of the most important subject in the life of every man and woman
SEX
AWAY WITH FALSE MODESTY!
Let us face the facts of sex fearlessly and frankly, sincerely and scientifically. Let us tear the veil of
shame and mystery from sex and build the future of the race on a knowledge of all the facts of
sex as they are laid bare in plain, daring but wholesome words and frank pictures in this huge new library
of Sex Knowledge—“SAFE COUNSEL.”
ddf
FOR MEN AND WOMEN—OVER 100 ILLUSTRATIONS .
SECRETS FOR MEN.
Mistakes of early marriages—
Secrets of fascination —How to
make women love you—Bringing
up healthy children —Nursing and
weaning—Fevers and contagious
diseases —Accidents and emergen-
cies—Hygiene in the home—-How
to care for invalids —Limitation of
offspring—Warning to young men
—Dangerous diseases —Hygienic
precautions —Anatomy and physio-
logy—The reproductive organs—
Education of the family.
EVERYTHING A MARRIED
WOMAN SHOULD KNOW.
How to preserve youth—Warding
off other women —Keeping yourself
attractive- —Why Husbands tire of
wives—Dreadful diseases due to
ignorance—Diseases of women —
Diseases of children—Family
health guide-—Change of life;
hygiene—Why children die young
—lnherited traits and diseases—
What will you tell your growing
girl ?—Hundreds of valuable
remedies.
GIRLS, DON’T MARRY BEFORE
YOU KNOW ALL THIS.
Beauty diets and baths —Do you
know: How to attract desirable
men ?■ —How to manage men ?
How to know if he loves you?—
How to acquire bodily grace and
beauty?—How to beautify face,
hands, hair, teeth, and feet ?
How to acquire charm? —How to
dress attractively ?—lntimate per-
sonal hygiene?—How to pick a
husband ?
SEND £1 FOR A COPY OF “SAFE COUNSEL” TO-DAY.
USE THIS FORM.
Enclosed please find £1 (one
pound), for which please send me
one copy “Safe Counsel" by return
mail.
N.Z. Readers send £1 N.Z. Bank
Note.
Name .
Address
BOOKS ALWAYS IN STOCK
“A MODERN MAN’S CONFESSION,” by
Alfred and Paul de Musset. Astounding
revelations of a man of the world, 4/ ; IHLi
RIVAL ACTRESSES,” by Georges Ohnet. Love,
gdamor, jealousy and life on the Paris stage.
I/-; “THE RED SPIDER,” by S. Baring
Gould. The daring love story, 4/-; “DOPE,”
bv Sax Rohmer. Vivid story of Chinese
underworld, 4/-; “PARISIAN LOVE,” by L
H. Brenning. Vivid night life in night
haunts of Paris, 4/-; “TALES OP CHINA-
TOWN,” by Sax Rohmer. Startling revela-
tions of white-slave traffic and opium dens,
4/-- “THE DWELLER IN THE DESERT,’
by 'Arthur AVeigall. A vivid and gripping
love story of love in the Sahara Desert, 2/6 ;
“LADY OF LIES,” by Paul Bourget. Vam-
pires of Paris —shameless women trading in
lost souls, 4/-; “A WOMAN’S SOUL,” by
Guy de Maupassant. Poignant story of the
desecration of the soul of a beautiful woman,
4/-; “BOOK OF HEALTH AND BEAUTY
SECRETS.” With complete instructions how
to get thin without diet, drugs, or foolish
exercises, 2/-; “CONTRACEPTION,” by Dr.
Marie Stopes. Magnificent book on birth
control, 25/-; “ENDURING PASSIONS,” by
Dr Marie Stopes. The married man’s best
friends, 10/-; “WISE PARENTHOOD,” with
special chapter on birth control; a book for
every married woman, 6/-; “LOVE AND
MARRIAGE,” by Dr. Hall, 12/6; “LOVE,”
bv Elinor Glyn, 3/6; “ART IN AUSTRA-
LIA,” Norman Lindsay number, 10/-
THE
COMPANIONATE
MARRIAGE
By Judge BEN B. LINDSEY
and
WAINWRIGHT EVANS.
Introduction by
The Hon. Mrs. Bertrand Russell.
“COMPANIONATE MARRIAGE,”
according to Judge Lindsey, con-
sists in the understanding that, so
long as there are no children
and the couple mutually desire a
divorce, they may have it without
the present system of deception
and hypocrisy involved in the legal
mutual consent through which the
great majority of divorces are
granted.
In this book Judge Lindsey
discussed his advocacy of this
sane and sensible idea of mar-
riage in the light of modern
civilisation. His conclusions have
been reached only by considera-
tions of thousands of failures in
modern marriage as observed by
him through his long years of
judicial service. He sees —unless
his premises are accepted—a
breakdown and a disregard of the
entire marriage system, and his
book should be of extreme im-
portance to every thinking man
and woman of to-day. Judge
Lindsey’s claim is that companion-
ate marriage would establish the
beauty, glory and joy of wanted
motherhood in real marriage, as
distinguished from mere sex.
Price 15/-. We pay postage.
NEW ART
PICTURES.
16 Exquisite Reproductions of
Beautiful Undraped Photographs
of the World’s Loveliest Girls and
Models. The pictures are 12in.
x 10in., and are enclosed in a
Handsome Portfolio, which can be
untied so that each picture can be
framed for your private den. No-
thing so beautiful has ever been
sold. You get the whole 16
pictures with calendar for 1932
carefully packed in heavy card-
board so that they will not be
damaged in transit. Price 5/-.
We pay postage.
ELINOR GLYN
on “LOVE.”
A Bargain, 3/6
NORMAN LINDSAY’S
PEN PICTURES.
Remarkable collection of Lindsay’s
pictures, 5/6, including postage.
MUSTARD POT
ANNUAL, 1932.
Gayest Book of Stories and Pic-
tures yeti Price 1/-, we pay
postage.
ALL THE ABOVE
ONLY OBTAINABLE
All orders sent by Return Mail.
LONDON BOOK CO. LTD.
REGISTERED OFFICE: 228 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PERMANENT POSTAL ADDRESS:
BOX 38, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Send postal notes or cheques.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which I enclose £.
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas —12 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/»
i%.^ r
6
1 '
5® f §®
6
c &®
4$
•* .A. S ;f,6/fR,6 e, „
.•••■ •••• -fVtS-V”"
,• * (j*'


A Good
Resolution
for the
New Year
there is one tyre that more people
buy, year after year, than any other, it is
not a leading tyre but the leading tyre.
By a margin of millions, the motoring
public the world over buys more Goodyear
tyres each year than any other make—they
buy them because of their time-tested value,
the trouble-free service they give, their
safety and sound economy.
But if you want to see for yourself why
Goodyear tyres are best, your Goodyear
dealer will gladly show you two chief
reasons the All-Weather Tread and
Supertwist Cord carcass found only in
Goodyear tyres.
If you are having trouble with your tyres
or are confused over the proper tyre
purchase, there is one simple rule for solv-
ing these problems decide: 44 1 will buy
only THE leading make of tyre.”
.
>
h.
k
K
A
k
*
V
*
V
V
k
\
X
i
«
K
i
>
7s
I
I
0
0
*
1
►
0
0
1
♦
/
¥
r.
t
r,
*
-
y
ib
*
X,
b
f
J * d
At//
r.
'
i/
L\
rr//
K'Vy
d
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
CI-5-32
