

KODAK
VERICHROME
No need to miss picture-making opportun-
ities now ; your photographic day is length-
ened by Verichrome, the new Kodak Film.
Verichrorne gives you much clearer pictures
and gives them hours earlier and later.
V
- \
MmmMm
'
-
FILM
THE BRIDGE
CINEGRAPH
Be sure to see a demon-
stration of the Bridge
Cinegraph , illustrating
the Sydney Harbour
Bridge Opening Festiv-
ities. Length is ioo ft. —
price, 30/-.
Verichrome means better pictures all
through the Winter. On dull days, rainy
days, misty days, gloomy days, Verichrome
—the Faster Film, the Master Film—makes
difficult pictures easy. Get a spool to-day!
LENGTHEN/ THE DAY
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS AND KODAK (Australasia) PTY LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne, C 1; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide;
45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 662 Hay Street, Perth; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; East Street, Rockhampton; Flinders Street, Townsville.
Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND LTD. 162 Queen Street, Auckland; 40 Princess Street, Dunedin;
294 Lambton Quay, Wellington; 681 Colombo Street, Christchurch.
The Bulletin
'l/f'c'/ftruivV (jd&ir* §044 ~h TiMM —s■ 8
Vol. 53.—N0. 2725.
Wednesday, May 4, 1932*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


l it Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars, post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Storu Writing
VJ at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON .
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 232
J.YSAGHT7
o
a
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
ulimra
s#“E^5 # “E^
The
perfect
toilet soap must
do more than cleanse, it
must also keep the skin in
good condition, freeing it
from all cause of irritation.
Cuticura Soap contains
the medicinal and healing
properties of Catieura,
bringing to the skin Health
as well as Cleanliness.
Soap Is. Sample free.
Address:
R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
è
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,';’
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
Clk mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
19 O’ Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
. ’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
THE PATRIOT
é
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Hep.: H. C. lIINOHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries,
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
New Zealand
tlx new Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and “up-to-the-minute”
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the "N.Z. Referee”
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241.
*LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander, ’’ 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander'’ Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2. where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency. Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
4!);>-!)5 Collins Street, Melbourne.
2%. TuuCu/ie .y *s&C&ne& ,
v ns£n£ SidxicJ, StZupe.
& S& t£&n ?urte4, rty&e* fix
tne. vfcrustiy S^cCi^f.
TheAUSTRALASIAN
pN SALE ALL STATES €»°
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
How the Other Half Lives
It is the lash ion in some circles to deplore
most of the novels published in present-day
England. Admittedly, they lack the moral
tone of the Victorian three-deckers, which
expressed a complacent period when all
was right with the world—or, anyhow, the
novel-reading section of it. They are often
trivial and scrappy; plain-spoken to the
point of obscenity; concerned with perver-
sions which the social observers of the
nineteenth century ignored. But they have
at least one virtue. They interpret every
side of life. They act as windows on the
whole world. Any of the three publishers
whose productions are discussed below
could supply at short notice authoritative
works telling how people live, not only
in Britain, which was the scene of 90 per-
cent. of the novels prrblished in London half
a century ago, but in almost every part of
the habitable globe. The middle-aged can
remember when practically the only trans-
lations of Continental novels available to
the general public were those of Yizetelly,
and when the American novel was repre-
sented chiefly by trash like “Mr. Barnes of
New York.” The post-war generation has
changed all that, and the English-speaking
world is the gainer, at any rate in know-
ledge.
London Crooks
All Londoners and visitors to London
know Villiers-street. To the uninitiated it
is just another of those dingy little
thoroughfares of mean pubs, cheap restau-
rants, small shops containing fancy goods
and mildly-improper postcards, loitering
street-walkers and scurrying newsboys which
abound between Oxford Circus and Char-
ing Cross. Arthur R. L. Gardner casts a
light on the neighborhood in Tinker’s
Kitchen (Philip Allan; 7s. 6d.), which
should give it a dramatic interest to the
thousands who traverse it daily and nightly
on the way to and from the Charing Cross
underground station. It appears that it is
the chief meeting-place of the humbler
members of the West End underworld.
Like other clubs of repute “the Cross” has a large
number of country members, some of whom are
travelling about England or are at sea, and others
of whom are doing temporary work in one or other
of H.M. prisons, or awaiting the completion of their
contract with the Home Office at Brixton ; for the
■‘boys” are very tolerant in their outlook. Those
who have been “inside” are ever welcome, like
children returning home from boarding-school at
the end of the term. For “the Cross” is home.
That is its secret.
One of the principal merits of the book is
its judicial, almost cynical, impartiality.
The writer shows his unfortunate friends
exactly as they appear to hint. Wayward-
ness is their outstanding trouble. Brass,
just out of Wandsworth, explains:—
Another reason why we are at “the Cross” is
that we are all restless natures. It’s not that we
are all work-shy; some may be, but not all; it is
that we can’t stick any job for long.
Tli ere is a chapter on Borstal which might
be worth the attention of penologists. Any-
one with money, the author points out,
can become, say, an Etonian, but it takes
character to become a Borstal boy. “One
can very seldom bring it off by a single
appearance before the magistrates; one
has to give a convincing proof of one’s
dauntlessness to be accepted as a fit candi-
dal e.” Once in Borstal the boys get the
very training required to make efficient
criminals of them; that is, the inculcation
of the public-school esprit de corps, with
its hatred of the sneak and the informer,
in an atmosphere created by boys who have
been drawn from the toughest strata of
societ3': —
The crook world is always badly in need of well-
trained criminals, and looks to Borstal more than
to anywhere else to furnish it with a regular
supply. And it does.
The Protestant Peasant
Turn from these genial miscreants to the
dour, upright characters of Herman de
Man’s fine novel Rising Waters (John
Lane; 7s. 6d.). It is like entering another
world. Old Vrouw Reyen works a farm at
Hoenkoop, one of the water-bound regions
of Holland. She domineers over her grown-
up sons, marries Arie to a rich widow,
separates Gielyan from a barge-owner’s
daughter, whom he loves, and marries him
to a farmer’s daughter, whom he detests.
Gielyan’s wife dies in childbirth, and the
rest of the story is a description of his
chaste and useful life as a widower. He
falls in love again in middle-age (his sen-
suality, kept under, as Bishop Rlougram
kept his doubts under, is the keynote of
his nature), and the girl is forced to accept
him by her mother
and his. But he
realises in time
that she doesn’t
care for him, and
releases her. He
rises in the world,
is appointed a High Homestead Councillor,
and faces the crisis of his career. On his
casting vote the lands of his friends—also
his family lands—are inundated to remove
the pressure on the dykes. He is execrated
locally for a while, then praised. He grows
old joylessly, with the oldest of problems
on his tired mind: “What’s the meaning of
it all?” As a study in the psychology of
the Protestant peasant—proud of his 1 race
and class; scornful of evil; suspicious of
pleasure; harassed repressions—it is a
masterpiece. The translator is Dr. Renier.
the historian.
Fashionable Chicago.
.The malefactors of W. R. Burnett’s The
Silver Eagle (Heinemann; 7s. 6d.) differ
as widely from the amiable morons de-
scribed by Mr. Gardner as they do from
the stern ascetics of “Rising Waters.”
Their ferocities would be unbelievable if
a Crime Commission hadn’t found that they
are commonplaces in several U.S.A. cities.
The hero is “Mr. Francis Cecil Harworth,
who, dressed quietly and expensively, car-
ried a cane, bowed stiffly from the waist,
clicking his heels, was difficult of approach,
seldom merry, a solitary figure wearing a
monocle. An unnaturally superior figure,
ignoring life.” In 1920 he was Frank Keogh,
and “had come into Chicago on a freight,
and been arrested by yard bulls”; now he
owns a flourishing night club and chain of
restaurants, and has social aspirations. He
gets to know Magnussen, millionaire and
patrician, Magnussen’s divorced wife and
their smart friends. In Europe his voice
and speech would have given him away
(“How about that Ford you was driving?”
he asks his chauffeur), but it seems to be
different in Chicago. Magnussen suggests
to Helen, who is having a liaison with their
new friend, that he didn’t inherit his money.
“I’d say offhand that he was a self-made
man,” says the aristo. naively. “It’s strange
how I can always tell them.” Harworth
gets involved with Joe Molina, another
Capone. He is being blackmailed by a
former mistress, who has some of his let-
ters, and Canovi, one of Molina’s thugs,
steals the letters for him. The lady’s new
lover has a cousin, Agostino Campi, who
is employed by Molina’s trade-rival, Mona-
han. Campi announces his intention of
shooting Canovi, and is shot himself. At
about this time Louise (a society woman
with whom Harworth has started an affair,
vice Helen, who is about to remarry Mag-
nussen) shoots an admirer who is always
drunk. Then Canovi shoots Bourke, one
of Monahan’s best guns, and Monahan an-
nounces his intention of exterminating
Canovi and Molina. Harworth is let in for
the dangerous job of getting them out of
the city. He calls for them before day-
break with his car. Gozzi. a Molina man,
is at a window with a Thompson gun
trained on the street as the fugitives get in:
Molina .slapped his hands together and said: “Well,
boys, I guess we're too smart for ’em.”
.But overhead a window was raised, and Gozzi
cried: “Jesus! hook out!”
They all whirled suddenly. A big touring car
turned the corner and bore down on them. Molina
said: “0 my God!” and made a dash for the door.
Overhead the Thompson gun began to bark. Hab
worth stood frozen with horror. The touring ear
was coming towards them slowly ; he saw four”men.
Before he could run guns blazed, and he heard the
sour whine of bullets. He saw Canovi fall forward
on his face.
The book ends with two policemen inspect-
ing the scene:—
“Four out of four,” said one. “That’s a pretty
good batting average.”
The other turned and called: “Molina dead yet?”
“Yeah. Dead as yesterday’s newspaper.”
You certainly meet all sorts in the modern
novel.
RED PAGE.
Book Publishing in Australia
I often used to wonder why Australian
novels were so few and far between. Now
I know. It is almost impossible to get
them before the buying public. If a trades-
man is unable to sell the product of his
skill he must starve or turn to some other
means of earning a living. In either case
he will become lost to his trade. So it is
with Australian writers of fiction.
Seeing that Australians have shown them-
selves to be efficient in other forms of liter-
ary expression, it is ridiculous to argue that
they lack the ability to construct good
hundred-thousand-word stories. They can
do it—but they can’t sell their works, so
they leave writing alone. As an instance—
and it is the one that is the cause of this
article being written—l formed a small
(Red Pdf/e continued on pUffC 5.)


'‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.”—AIways the Truth.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
39/- Luncheon Sets clearing now
Hemstitched Cream Linen Damask Luncheon Sets. With Rose, Blue or
Gold borders. The sets comprise: 1 cloth (33in. x 63in., 6 serviettes to match.
Usual Price, per set 39/-
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price, per set 26/-
26/-
1/1 Horrockses’ Pillow Cases now at
Horrockses’ Reliable Quality Pillow Cases. Quality-value the thrifty
shopper can’t afford to miss. Size IS x 28 inches. Taped. Usual Price, 1/1
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price BJd.
Housewife Flap. Usual Price 1/8
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price, each llld.
Bsd.
2/11 Admiralty Bath Towels now at
Turkish Bath Towels of good quality! Half bleached. Admiralty Towels.
Ked heading. Secure some of these at this bargain price before they clear.
Size 25 x5O inches. Usual Trice -' I 1
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price "
2/3
1/9 Irish Linen Glass Cloth now at
Pure Irish Linen Glass Cloth. Woven for long service. Bed or Blue Checks.
It’s 26 inches wide, too! Usual Price, yd 1/0,
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price, yd 1/6
1/6
Anthony Horderns'
’Phone: M 2401, DAY AND NIGHT
Pitt, Goulburn and George Streets, Sydney
Postal Address: Box 2712 c, G.P.O.
16/9 Finlay’s
Hemmed Sheets
at 13/9 pair
Ready- Hemmed Finlay’s Sheets. Mill
seconds. Excellent wearing quality.
Plain linen finished. Size 63 x 90 inches.
Usual Price •: 16/9
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale
Price ... 13/9
Size 80 x 106 inches. Usual Price, 23/11
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale
Price 19/9
ê
13/- Hemmed Sheets
Best value you’ll find in Ready-
made sheets! In a heavyweight
I will weave, neatly hemmed
and finished. Genuinely re-
10/11
dnced for clearance! Sizes, ins. . . aljx 90 80 x, 100
Prices, pair ...:13/- 21/-
Antliony Horderns’ Autumn Sale
Prices., pair - 10/11 17/6
2/6 White. Sheeting
White Sheeting of a quality that
will stand repeated laundering. Twill
weave. Shop early and receive the full
211
benefit from this offer.
Wiclths 54in.
Prices, yard 2/6
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale
Prices, yard 2/1
I
80in.
3/6
3/1
3/3 Finlay’s Sheeting
Now, here is value for keen house-
wives ! Finlay's White Sheeting, with
plain linen finish. Classed as “Seconds”
but wear is in no way impaired. In
2/8
two widths.
Prices, yard
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale
Prices, yard
63in.
3/3
2/8
80in.
4/3
3/6
2/3 Turkish Towels
Another amazing value in Turkish
Towels. These are unbleached with
fawn ground. Red or blue stripes.
Size, 22 x 14 inches. Save 4d. by
1/11
purchasing now. Price, each 2/3
Anthony Horderns' Autumn Sale Price .... 1/11
1/6 Hand Towels now
Huckabuck Hand Towels. Heavyweight
absorbent quality. Red heading. Size,
38x32 inches. ' Genuinely reduced by
6d, each. Price, each 1/6
u
.Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price, each, \/~
(Manchester -First Floor. We,pay carnage.)
8
CXS
4JW
Here you have a superlative opportunity to buy
the identical “standard” qualities that sell all the
year round for much more than these cut prices!
Here is your chance to gather real savings if you
replenish while such worth-while reductions are to
be made NOW—buy for months to come —buy
quality—buy the best at the lowest prices.
White “HORDURA” Blankets
White “Hordura” Blankets, specially reduced. Made from All Australian
Wool. Warm and serviceable.
Sizes, inches 54 x 78 63 x 81 72 x9O 81 x 99
Single Bed. Threequarter Bed. Double. Dge. Double.
Prices, pair 24/6 30/- 37/6 47/6
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Prices, pair—
-22/6 26/11 34/8 42/6
28/6 White Australian
Blankets, to clear, pair
19/11
i v
White Australian Blankets. Full standard weight and size. Size 63 x 81 in.,
for threequarter beds. Price, pair 128/0
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price., pair 19/11
16/11 Pure Wool Grey
Blankets, Selling at, pair
14/6
Silver Grey Blankets, made from all pure wool. Buy these quality blankets
now'and save’. Sizes, in 54 x 72 03x81 72 x9O
Single Bed. Threequarter Bed. Double Bed
Prices, pair 16/11 21/- 26/11
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Prices, pair—
-14/6 18/11 22/6
1/11 Damask now
Women who know good
value will be amazed
at the quality of this
White Kitchen Damask
1/8
priced at only 1/8 yard. 54 inches
wide, and in a big range of check
designs. Price, yard 1/11
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn
Sale Price., yard 1/8
3/3 Serviettes
now 2/11 if), half doz.
Replenish your serviettes now and
save tremendously! A special offer
of White Mercerised Damask
Serviettes. In a huge selection of
designs. Useful sines!
1/7 Pure Linen
Kitchen Towels
Kitchen Towels, made
of all pure linen. Colored
border. Neatly hemmed.
Note the size, 27 x-f!5 in.
1/4
Price, each .3 1/7
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn
Sale Price, each .. 1/4
1/3 Glass Cloths
now 1/- ea.
Glass Cloths,- clean drying quality.
All linen. In an assortment of
colored borders. Size, 22 x 32 ins.
Price',' each ....... 1/3
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn
Sale Price, each 1/-
MAIL ORDERS.
You are no further from Anthony
Horderns’ than your nearest
letter-box. So order now!
We pay carriage.)
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.,
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0.;
SYDNEY
’Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
18/11 Damask
Mattress Cases
now 13/11 .
Floral Damask Designed Mattress Cases to
clear at exceptionally low prices. Size,
4ft. din. x (ift. Gin., with shaped sides and
ends. T'sual prices—
-18/11 Autumn Sale Price, 13/11
21/- „ „ 16/11
27/11 „ „ „ 21/-
ë
ē
11/4d. Flannelette 82CI.
Reliable quality Flannelette offered in a range of
dainty lingerie colors. 5000 yards only at this
price. In Cream, Salmon, Sky and Lemon.
Widths, 00-31 inches, trice, yard Hid.
Anthony Horderns 5 Autumn Sale Price, yd., BSd.
1/9 Striped Flannelette
Striped Flannelette
twill weave. In a
stripes. Width, 35-:
Price, yard
in a heavyweight
range of pyjama
>6 inches.
1/9
116
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price, yard, 1/6
118 Cream Flannelette
Heavyweight Cream Flannelette. Plain
weave. 36 inches wide. Buy now and
save 3d. on every yard.
Price, yard
1/8
115
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price., yard.. 1/5
2/4 Australian Flannel
Australian
duced. All-
In Natural
28in. wide.
Flannel, specially re-
Wool, medium weight,
and Dark Grey only.
A typical Value from
1/11
our huge Manchester Department. Price, yd., 2/-1
Anthony Horderns’ Autumn Sale Price, yd., 1/11
4/3 “OSMAN”
Towels now at
2/9
The well-known brand of Towels, “Osman,”
offered at substantially reduced prices. Although
mill seconds, they, are of a heavyweight absorbent
quality. Sizes, in., 22 x 45 24 x 49 27 x5l 30 x 55
Prices, each 4/3 4/11 5/11 6/11
Vnthony Horderns* Autumn Sale Price, each —
2/9 3/3 4/3 4/11
{Manchester—First Floor. We pay carriage.)


o*l° '
**&
r*i
TO IMITATE IS
NOT TO EQUAL
AMD CORK TIPS DO NOT
MAKE OTHER CIGARETTES
AS GOOD AS
<s>
K)A6-
20/"l-
CORK TIPS
or
PLAIN.
B.D.V ’s are well filled, well packed cigarettes, manufactured
only from pure imported Virginia tobacco. Quality alone has
been the cause of their achieving such amazing popularity
within a year.
D
□
AUSTRALIA'S POPULAR
CORK TIPPED CIGARETTES


MURDOCHS
Overcoats
ĕ
(Formerly
50 j- Value )
“A long and cold Winter”
reports the daily press! Now
is the time to protect yourself
from the piercing winds and
biting air of the Winter months
ahead with an Overcoat from
Murdoch’s. Made in the
popular ‘‘Raglan’ style, as
illustration, from excellent
Tweed materials in all the latest
designs. No belt. Save now
at this SPECIAL “MILL-
TO-WEARER”
PRICE
351-
Other qualities at
42/- 50/- 63/- 70 /-
We Pay Freight.
REMEMBER HOSPITAL
SATURDAY APPEAL
FRIDAY, MAY 6.
Kindly address all letters to
Desk “R.”
Murdoch's New Winter Catalogue—
FREE.
Murdochs Ltd.
SYDNEY
“Pay Less and Dress Better:’
company with the object of publishing Aus-
tralian fiction. Two books were put on the
market, “Forever Morning” and “Man-
Shy,” and I doubt if any works by an
unknown author ever had a better recep-
tion from the press. Also, many eulogistic
letters arrived from strangers; one from
Mr. Scullin, who was then Prime Minister.
Success seemed assured.
But what about the wholesale book dis-
tributors? With one exception (Edwards,
Dunlop and Co., of Sydney) they refused
to buy. Most of them said they would
order the books “as they were asked for.”
And they did. If a country bookseller got
an order from a customer (who had pro-
bably read a notice in The Bulletin or
elsewhere), he sent in an order for a copy
to his wholesaler. The wholesaler then
ordered one copy from me. Buy half a
dozen copies to display on their shelves so
that visiting booksellers could include a
copy with their usual monthly order of
fiction they would not. Is it necessary to
say more? How can goods be sold if they
are not displayed for sale?
One Melbourne firm sent an order for 200
copies—with the tag, “These will be, of
course, on sale or return.” The answer was
a refusal to deal, accompanied by a query
as to whether the firm bought its overseas
fiction on the same terms. A dozen copies
ordered and paid for would have been in-
finitely more helpful.
That the two books have a sales value
as well as literary merit was shown by
orders for copies received from booksellers
scattered all over Australia and Maoriland
—but publishing cannot be carried on along
picayune lines, so those orders didn’t help
very much, and in due course another
honest effort to put Australian fiction on
the market went west.
To prove that this letter is not just a
misery wail, I might add that two editions
of “Forever Morning” and one of “Man-
Shy” have been sold out. But the business
of getting them before the buying public
was too expensive to warrant the printing
of more editions. Norman Lindsay, or
someone else, will perhaps be more success-
ful than I have been in squeezing decent
treatment out of our wholesale booksellers.
In the interests of Australians writers (and
readers) I hope so.
EX-PUBLISHER.
A Historical Shop
The Bridge Commemoration number of
The Hordernian Monthly is a history of
Sydney, a pioneer family and a great busi-
ness all in one. The original Anthony Hor-
dern arrived in Port Jackson on the Phoenix
in 1823. He paid £95 for the passages of
himself, his wife and their four children.
Their first venture was a strawbonnet ware-
house in King-street. The family didn’t
go to Brickfield Hill till 1844, when An-
thony, son of the pioneer who had left
Sydney for Melbourne and died there,
started a drapery on the present site of
the business with his brother Lebbeus. An-
thony lived over the shop, as the custom
was at the time, and “Old Sam” was born
there five years later. “Old Sam,” whose
handsome, resolute face and dapper figure
remain in the memories of thousands of
present-day Sydneyites, was the genius of
the family. He had to cope with the pro-
blems created by the great fire of 1901.
While the premises were still burning he
called a meeting of his managers, and de-
cided to carry on in the Exhibition Build-
ing in Prince Alfred Park.
The perfect organisation of the firm immediately
began to function. Orders were given, and while
flames were still shooting upwards, and the floors
and rafters merely embers, arrangements were being
made, agreements with the Sydney Municipal
Council signed, and before the winter’s sun had set
on that terrible day, Anthony Hordern’s were Town
Hall tenants, with the trade of the State and Aus-
tralia still in their hands.
The present six-storey mammoth is a tri-
umph of Australian workmanship. All the
iron castings, polished marble, woodwork
and embossed steel ceilings came from the
firm’s factories; and the 4500 cubic yards
of cement, the 11,000,000 bricks, the
8000 sheets of galvanised iron and the
16,000 feet of ironbark girders are Aus-
tralian too. A great national industry, and
this book, with its hundreds of illustra-
tions, does justice to it.
D.
Morning Walk
Yesterday was liot. I sweltered into
town; but loved walking across Rushcutter
Bay Park, where millions of dandelions
dazzled my eyes. They have an acrid frag-
rance, suggesting leopards among boulders,
and savages with feathers in their hair: not
like the milk-faced English flower whose
religious incense cathcdralises the forests,
even where Robin Hood has been. But,
instead of leopards and savages, there were
boys playing cricket.
Up above was the blue sky, with one
cloud ripped down the middle, as if some
aeroplane Johnny had flown a Moth
through it.
I thought of God and His holy angels.
But, at King’s.. Cross, I walked nearer to
the earth; and it was not God who con-
fronted me outside the Cinema House,
but a person far more awe-inspiring to
meet
I mean my mother-in-law.
HUGH MCCRAE.
A Satchel of Books
These Beautiful Women, by Bartlett
Adamson (Sydneysider Company), contains
50 reproductions of Salon nudes and the
poetic musings to which they have inspired
the author. This is not Mr. Adamson at
his best., but he can’t write badly, and he
is often brilliant. “Song of the Stream” is
a gem: the sonnet form is certainly his
medium.
The New Believe It or Not, by Ripley
(Stanley Paul, 55.), will rather disappoint
Australians who met the witty author the
other day. The drawings are crude and the
remarkable facts are not so entertainingly
presented as most of those in Arthur Mee’s
“Children’s Cyclopaedia.” Most of his mathe-
matical oddities are old, but they are all in-
teresting.
Trio consists of three poems by Kenneth
Slessor, Harley Matthews and Colin Siihp-
son, with drawings and designs by Ray-
mond Lindsay, William E. Pidgeon, .Tames
G. Flett and George Finey, and a map
(eighteenth-century style) by James Emery.
But the book is the notable thing. The
Sydney Sunnybrook Press is responsible,
and it has turned out one of the most agree-
able productions, as regards typography,
paper, binding and general format, that the
writer has handled for many a day. The
new firm represents the first serious attempt
that has been made in Australia to establish
a private press, and it deserves to succeed
from every point of view.
Hellhounds of France, by ex-Legionnairo
1384 (Sampson Low; Robertson and Mul-
lens; Bs. 6d. net), should convince _ most
readers that the French Foreign Legion is
not a rest-cure for military invalids. The
tale of floggings, murders, torturings and in-
sensate brutality begins on the first page
and never ceases till the end. P. C. Wren
and Hollywood have apparently got it all
wrong. It is difficult to understand, if the
yarn be true, how the Legion is kept up to
strength, unless the recruits are impressed.
The author is a trifle too shrill, but then he
appears to have had provocation enough,
zifter five years of amazing suffering, in the
course of which he and his polyglot mates
killed Riffs, Druses and Arabs galore, he got
eight years in chains for backchatting a mili-
tary judge. Still, a mercenary who signs
on to fight wars for a foreign Power oughtn’t
to expect too much general sympathy.
When The Valley of Twisted Trails, by
W. C. Tuttle (Collins; 7s. 6d.) opens “Sad”
Sontag is in a Mexican gaol. Likewise
“Swede” Harrigan. But, shucks, they soon
slide out: —
The guard, humped over in his scrape, was all un-
conscious of danger until “Sad’s” long fingers closed
about his throat. “Swede” grabbed the rifle and,
as the man struggled to his feet, the barrel came
down on his head with a dull cluck. Thereupon
that Mexican ceased to be interested.
They wander through the lands where the
puncher with a quick trigger-finger is king,
stunning and slaughtering their enemies with
stolid calm; they make San Pablo Valley
a safe place for cowmen (not to mention
cowgirls), and then they pull out and “go
along the old road poco poco, as the Mexi-
cans says.” For p. 254 has now been
reached, and Mr. Tuttle’s adventure books
are rarely larger.
The Affairs of Men, by John Hastings
Turner (Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d.), is
chiefly about John Mellish, a half-caste.
Mellish was a power among the natives of
the Randah River. A kind of hard-drink-
ing, drug-taking, woman-chasing Gandhi,
but younger and better-looking. The
whites of the little tropical station feared
him. “I am informed,” said Lord Deering,
the Minister for Eastern Interiors, to Viola
Bainbridge in Londou, “that he has only to
say that he is God for the entire country to
become in an uproar.” So Viola went out
to be kissed by Mellish in the name of
Empire on generous terms, and all turned
out as Whitehall desired. Mellish is a new
kind of hero, as Deering is a new kind of
villain, and they are both extremely well
done.
And a Little Verse
WHEN YOU AND I TOGETHER MEET.
When yon and I together meet,
The g-rass is green, the air is sweet,
And every dancing floweT that is,
A symbol of your perfect kiss.
Lo ! every bird-call is a note
I hear again from your white throat,
And all the nectar of the vine
I drink, from your soft eyes with mine.
N.S.W.
A. M. K.
SONG OF ROADS.
The Yellow Road was made and set
For those who never know
A passion deep, or purpose high,
For whom no change of sea or sky,
Nor any glory God has sent
Could ever set aglow.
The Grey Road is the road of dreams
And memories most dear,
That wake and walk in rose and musk,
When grey hills brood at tender dusk,
And voices speak to listening trees,
That mortals may not hear.
The Brown Road is the pixies’ road,
That elves and dryads know,
Where whispering pine-trees interlace
Their arms, and guard the shadowy place,
And wildwuod things, on velvet feet,
Pass swiftly to and fro.
The White Road is the happy road;
It runs by radiant rills.
By forests clad in dewy sheen,
And long cool slopes of gold and green,
Where tranquil love walks unafraid
And ringed by sheltering hills.
The Red Road is the rover’s road,
The rebel’s changeless friend;
And' yet to splendid heights afar
It leads, where God and Silence are.
It called the best when earth was young,
And shall unto the end.
For sometimes, as the aloe blooms
In every hundred years,
The Red Road yields one perfect hour
Of glorious life and glittering power
That death itself may not outweigh,
Triumphant over tears.
N.S.W.
NELLIE A. EVANS.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken
of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability
is undertaken re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
A.C.W.: It gave the Religious Editor the
shivers. .. .G.A.8.: No trouble over passports,
apparently, where you live... .0.F.: Jingle without
clarity C.H.S. (N.S.W.): An idea in it, and
music in the native names, but why drag in Pan
and the dryads ?.... E.H.8.: Should be read in
company with a Spanish onion... .C.0.H.: What
could you expect ? You had trained the girl to
want to be in clover... .L.M.8.: Not mute, at all;
but your note needs strengthening... .E.V.8.: No
glow about your middle age... .Silver Fern: You
don’t belong to a union or you wouldn’t inquire
“What need of man to always ask for pay?”....
J.S.: Can’t you leave Love’s garden and the withered
rose at rest in their mothballs?... .E.C.: Picture is
clear, but too thin... .L.M.8.: Tinkling generalities.
. ...C.A.8.: You have color sense and a pretty ear,
but your apple of poesy is not ripe... .M.L.: Words
like “dribbling” and “hiccoughed” are out of the
picture, and the idea is complete at the end of the
seventh stanza. You could improve it... .P.0.M.C.:
Like the way “Toast” is buttered. Other two just
miss... .R.M.: Elfin voices failed years ago to make
this welkin ring. Try a newer theme... .H.P.1.: It
stumbles along dully, but at least the writer is trying
to express a definite thought. Yes, keep 0n... .
John H.: Moralising is not poetry, and the meaning
is often obscure... .C.C.: Well wrought, but the
theme is threadbare. .. .E.M.J.: Undistinguished....
J. 1.: Very nearly.... Mrs. J. K.: Adjectives and
commonplace lines overload your idea... .M.K.: Some
ideas; no quality in the lines Winifred: Not
without feeling; not enough craft... .F.H.: “Cur-
tained-burdened” ; “fell-pelt.” Come, come !... .E.M.:
Weak jingle G.Y.: A new version of “The Yeo-
man’s Wedding Song”:—
I’m 'slipping down the hill of life, my hair is
turning grey.
I’m getting wed on Friday week, I’m sixty-nine
to-day.
My lady love is sixty-two, been married thrice before.
I wonder if she’ll see me out and bury Number four?
. ...V.R.C.: “Has my poem any merit?” It’s not a
poem... .C.S.: Have quality, but are not in the
front rank 1.P.: Sheik may be lovely, but verses
are n0t....G.N.: A poem you consider “suitable for
a resatation,” eh? Well, here’s some of it: —
With nine stone twelve upon his back,
And him but four years old,
He won the famous Melbourne Cup
And brought his backers gold.
’Tis true he failed with ten stone ten
And seemed to fade away,
But then he may not have been himself
Upon that famous day.
And though he’s but a. guilding,
Now his last race is run,
He will leave no stock behind him,
Like the mighty Carbine done.
The last seems an unassailable proposition, anyhow.
... .Yarragundry: No value in “Vale”.... J.A.:
Creaky doggerel F.E.M.: Not sufficient driving
force to get them into print.... T.A.W.: No demand
for “zephyrs sheltered by steep sylvan hills” and so
on 5.8.5.: Needs a plot to make it g0....P.M.:
Standing on its head at the finish E.M.: An
English magazine might swallow it G.F.C.P.:
Instead of a cake you send a couple of caraway
seeds D.R.W.: Forced R.W.H.: Wordy
M.W.P.: Not greatly improved in the rewriting....
L.M.E.: Jimmy talked us to sleep... .E.M.8.: Started
promisingly; then became melodramatic... .G.T.:
Apparently the bush is teeming with hermits whom
the girl wouldn’t have... .D.H.: Obvious ending....
S.R.W.: Steele Rudd got in before you... . J.F.L.:
Fair, but not what we want— .E.A.S.: Verse correct,
but turgid and pompous Narrominc: “The Cookie’s
Wail” is even more harrowing than you tried to
make it F.C. J.: Seventeen rickety stanzas about
“Aida.” What a waste of paper! E.C.: Wheezy
100-line narrative poem firmly declined D.L.M.M.:
Not bad of its kind, but it isn’t our kind
J.S.: A bagful of chaff and not a grain of printable
verse in it Verbeille: “Juist a waste o’ ink,” as
far as we’re concerned... .0.T.W.: No p10t... .R. 8.:
Far too long J. 8.0. (R.P.) : The second answer re-
ferred to your story G.S.C.: Try going over it
again E.K.P.: Second version little better....
G.C.L.: All that about a trifle! P. J.: Not well
put together... .E.M.L.: Let us have something Aus-
tralian W.R.A.: Neatly told, but it could be
squeezed into a par Cinemasick: Hope misplaced.
J.L.W.: Try reading some good poetry before
you perpetrate any more of these atrocities....
Isawim: Bloodcurdling A.G.8.: There’s plenty of
swing in “The Ghost of Merridew’s Mill,” but its
length is fatal W.R.: Feeble echoes, both
Ward No. 8: A well-meant tribute, but not
sufficiently well framed Van: Passed out
W.W.M.: Can’t answer letters personally explaining-
why a thing is unacceptable... .8.P.M.: Vague senti-
mentality J. 8.: Your nicely-typed offering about
the sinking sun and the bird’s sweet note all
according to catalogue. Try something that hasn’t
been rehashed since the beginning of time.... J.R.:
Not yet N.A.E.: Idea is very old; verse form
good E.P.: You labor sentiment... .0.F.: “Alone”
is the best we’ve had from you; not good enough,
though J. 8.: Poem on life washed on a wave of
tears into the basket... .8.H.Y.: A pleasant but un-
arresting picture W.L.: They have atmosphere;
keep going... .T.1.M.: Well done, but we don’t like
them so very literary J.C.G.: They have some
quality, but no inspiration E.D.: Just missed. Your
verse is good, but its repression gives an effect of
coldness M.C.: Keep on studying. You have
everything to learn about verse form M.M.: Over-
long for its subject V.G.W.: Nothing fresh in
verses about the seasons; the second effort is not
vivid enough L.A.S.: Not quite up; put it aside
for a bit. Don’t care for words like “precariously”
at the end of a line H.W.P.: Sorry, it isn’t
poetry E.G.S.: Nearly S.W.A.D.: Pleasant as
an offering to friendship N.W.: All tucked into
the basket M.M.C.: Not yet.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.M.D.: Seems to have been a mortal struggle
to put* them on paper.... J.G.: Almost.... A.D.: Best
yet, though still a bit too stiff F.H.: If there
were .a prize for persistency, you’d win it C.M.K.:
Hopeless.. . .J.M.11.: Promising; keep on A.S.K.:
Sending it back; we prefer to spend the winter out-
side Long Bay J.F.: Can’t form an opinion
from copies S.H.: Can see nothing to laugh at
in the dismal spectacle J.L.: In better times you
should be able to find a market H.M.C.: Gag has
no punch in it.


9
ė
HI
wm
m
■
m
m
< .
m
■ *• ■
t
#%
■
i I
HI
IT;
■
■»
*<*
is '■ ■•/■ ■
. &
■
Z
1 ■ I
Vs!
i m
s
:
/
il
a
L • r
:
■
■
ma I
■:
■
•r jf
%
m
i
mm
m§m
'
IMMMI
’■!
*?%' •'* •
■
■■talk
*
Ml


The Bulletin
VoL 53. —No. 2725.
May 4, 1932.
MUTINY IN THE FACE OF THE ENEMY.
GENERAL HOGAN: “The army will advance as one man. What’s that? Most of ’em won’t. They prefer to fight Rafferty rules. You, too. Dismissed, am I? Well,
I dismiss the lot of yez.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; >Phone 87971.
Victoria : 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, U, Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J/s.j 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route'’: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for boz. To all other
places: Id. fcrr 2oz.
VERY LIKE SOUTH CAROLINA.
The language and proceedings of the New
South Wales defaulters these last two
months bear a sinister resemblance to the
language and proceedings of the American
disunionists before the outbreak of the Civil
War. Like the rulers of South Carolina in
those days, the rulers of New South Wales
are engaged in unlawful resistance to the
national authority which would smash the
Federal union if successful. Leaving armed
force out of the argument, a triumphant
issue of their rebellion would have worse
consequences than the Americans on both
sides had to reckon with at the end of 1860;
for, abandoned by their richest associate in
the fallen Commonwealth, the other States
would have to follow it in defaulting, and
the enraged creditor countries, which are
also far and away our best customers,
would avenge themselves by at least a part-
tial boycott. Britain alone has half a mil-
lion investors in Australian Government
securities; and they probably maintain
twice that number, and have opportunities
of influencing millions more. A national
boycott of Australian goods is an unlikely
eventuality, but it is not in human nature
for people who have been cheated by a
shopkeeper or a debtor to buy from the
cheat when' they can go elsewhere; and
every commodity that Australia produces
for export, wool doubtfully excepted, is pro-
duced in abundance by countries which
have no Langs. A national embargo on
Australian loans would be an inevitable
result of default. And Lang himself said,
only 18 months ago, “The State of New
South Wales is in the same position as an
expanding business: it must borrow to
expand.”
In South Carolina, as in New South
Wales, the unlawful resistance to national
authority followed a defeat at the polls. Lin-
coln won the Presidential election on
November 6, 1860, but did not take up his
quarters in the White House till'March 4,
1861. “Will the South submit to a Black
Republican President and a Black Repub-
lican Congress?” asked Mr. James Chesnut,
one of the U.S. Senators from South Caro-
lina. “I will unfurl the Palmetto flag, fling
it to the breeze, and, with the spirit of a
brave man, determine to live and die as
became our glorious ancestors.” The gen-
tleman also undertook to “ring the clarion
notes of defiance in the ears of an insolent
foe.” “What are we to do?” inquired the
Hon. W. W. Boyce, a South Carolina mem-
ber of the House of Reps. “The only policy
for us is to arm. It is for South Carolina,
in the quickest manner and by the most
direct means, to withdraw from the Union.”
The contagion spread to Georgia, and the
Governor of that State said: “I should like
to see Federal troops dare attempt the
coercion of a seceding southern State. For
every Georgian who fell in a conflict thus
incited, the lives of two Federal soldiers
should expiate the outrage on State sov-
ereignty.” All this months before Lincoln
entered upon his duties.
Mr. Lyons became Prime Minister on
January 6 as a result of the general election
held on December 19. In March Senator
Rae, of New South Wales, was saying, just
like the Senator from South Carolina: “An
overwhelming majority ofthe people of New
South Wales will be prepared to defy, and,
if necessary, fight the Federation. Old as
I am, I would be willing to take my place
side by side with those who would, if required,
fight to the death against tyranny.” And
the mantle of the Georgian gentleman de-
scended on Mr. Ward, the member for
East Sydney, who said: “The men of New
South Wales have not forgotten how to
fight. If members from other States
attempt to ride roughshod over the people,
probably many of the marauders will not
leave the State alive.” And Mr. Lang, as
his newspaper put it, “told the people of
New South Wales ‘You’ve got to fight’”;
warned Mr. Bruce (as quoted by his own
Beasley) that “whatever steps he may take
the people of New South Wales can meet
him, whether his action is within the law
or without it”; and declared in his own
House (again as reported by his news-
paper), “If the Commonwealth peace offi-
cers attempt to usurp the functions of the
New South Wales police force they will
find themselves in the same position as any
other person or body who attempts to
usurp the duties or the functions of the
Government of New South Wales.” All
this because Mr. Lyons was proposing to
make the Lang Government stand up to
its obligations, it having repudiated the
financial agreement and the Premiers’ plan,
and defaulted, not only to overseas credit-
ors, but also to the Commonwealth and
the Commonwealth Bank. Some of the
secession States also defaulted in their time,
and to British bondholders at that; but
default was not the issue on which they
fought their Federal union. They stood for
the right to enslave without hindrance: it
is our disunionists who stand for the right
to swindle and get away with it.
The secessionists of the South gave them-
selves the airs of a privileged aristocracy;
and so do our New South Wales defaulters.
A savage intolerance of opposition—marked
in one case by the employment of “the
border ruffians” and in the other by associ-
ation with “the basher gang”—characterised
both. “Before the opening of 1861,” wrote
a chronicler of the time, “a perfect reign
of terror had been established. A secret
order known as Knights of the Golden
Circle, operating in the interest of disunion,
had spread its network all over the South.
Other bodies were known as the Precipitators,
the Vigilance Committee, Minute Men,
and by kindred designations; all of them
were sworn to fidelity to Southern rights.”
Similarly we read in the sober “Sydney
Morning Herald” that “a new Red Army
has been formed to ‘defend’ Mr. Lang”;
that “members are being enrolled by
straightout conscription” (“refusal to enlist
is tantamount to refusal to become a
trade-unionist”); that the conscripts have
to pledge themsel-ves in writing “to assist
the Premier and his Government in any
steps they may take to safeguard the living
conditions of the people,” and to hold them-
selves “ready when called upon to take
action”; and that there are “subsidiary
bodies”—“the Sailors and Soldiers’ Auxiliary
Corps and the Constitutional Guard.” And
the public has heard a Minister of the
Crown boast that the police will in no
circumstances arrest Mr. Lang or allow him
to be arrested (“the police belong to the
State and will protect him”), and it
has seen “Lang is Right” mobs, with
police permission, march through and
occupy the public streets. The members
of these mobs have been fed with promises
which are impossible of fulfilment, and are
assured that fulfilment has been delayed by
the greed and malignity of “the capital-
ists”; and the reckless spirits among them
have been made more reckless by addiction
to gambling, the mob Government having
multiplied the facilities for this anti-social
pursuit. And the mob Government has
seized property, in the shape of taxation
papers, which belongs, at least in part, to the
national Government; it was the seizure
of national property, carried to the point
of trying to take a fort, that brought on the
Civil War.
The historical parallel is not exact, but
it is too close to be comforting. Yet
the national Government’s duty is clear.
It is to go resolutely on with the measures
designed to compel the mob Govern-
ment to disgorge its booty, keep its engage-
ments and obey the law, and to be
prepared for any trouble that may arise.
Law strongly applied in the cause of
national unity, honesty and good faith will
beat this mob Government and force it
to go to the country. Firmness can save
the situation; faltering may be fatal.
VIC. LABOR DEFEATS ITSELF.
The spectacle of a Parliamentary Labor
party tearing itself to pieces is no longer
a novelty, but, being staged in the most
spacious of theatres, with the whole people
for audience, it never fails to interest and
amuse. It is familiar without staleness,
like the periodical circus, and the perform-
ers differ in much the same way as the
Animated Arabs differ from their predeces-
sors, the Sensational Syrians, and the Cele-
brated Caseys from the Marvellous Mul-
doons.
The Donnybrook may be the outcome of
a dispute on an issue which has suddenly
arisen—for example, the conscription issue
in 1916—0 f the tyranny of the party
machine, or of personal ambitions and dis-
likes. Mr. Lang rent his party in 1926-27
because he hated to see Messrs. Loughlin
and Mutch hanging round. He burst the
Federal Labor party because he hated to
think there were so many Victorians in the
Ministry—though the pretext given by Mr.
Beasley, his agent in the destruction of the
Ministry, was that Mr. Theodore was trying
to buy votes with public money and that
he, the highminded Beasley, was scandalised,
horrified. Ministerial support for the
Premiers’ plan led to South Australia’s
Hill Government and its Parliamentary
adherents being expelled by the local A.L.P.
executive; that concern has also expelled
the Lang faction, which has expelled the
A.L.P. executive, the Hill Government and
portion of its own following. The Victorian
A.L.P. executive likewise struck at the
Hogan, Government because it supported
the Premiers’ plan. It has thereby split
the party and reduced the Government to
a despised remnant —and this with a gen-
eral election to be held on May 14.
The Premiers’ plan provided for (1) “a
reduction of 20 p.c. in all adjustable Govern-
ment expenditure as compared with 1929-
30”; (2) “conversion of internal debts on the
basis of a 22i p.c. reduction of interest”;
(3) “the securing of additional revenue by
taxation”; (4) “reduction of bank rates of
interest on deposits and advances”;
(5) “relief in respect of private mort-
gages.” When the Premiers arrived at it
their Governments, as they acknowledged,
were “going behind at the rate of £40,000,000
a year,” and were in imminent danger of
being unable to meet current obligations.
The banks had carried them thus far, but
could not go on doing it at the rate of
£40,000,000 a year; the Commonwealth
Bank had warned them that “the limit
to that process” had “been reached.” Premier
Hill it was who moved that “the repre-
sentatives of each Government bind them-
selves to give effect promptly to the whole
of the resolutions agreed to at this confer-
ence.” Mr. Lang entered into the bond,
and broke it, as is his fashion. Mr. Hill
has been faithful to it all along. So has
Mr. Hogan.
While Mr. Hogan was able to attend to
his duties Victorian Labor was firmly
led. Threatened with expulsion if he did
not repudiate the plan, he defied the petty
tyrants of the Trades Hall, and the
threats went no further. And, denied a
majority in either House, he contrived to
keep in office without compromising on
principles. Unfortunately for his party, as
well as himself, his health broke down. He
decided to go abroad; as events have
shown, he would have done better to re-
main in Australia. Mr. Hogan represents
a country electorate in which the Trades
Hall bosses have little influence. Mr.
Tunnecliffe, his substitute, is member for
Collingwood, in which they are all-powerful;
so they found Mr. Tunnecliffe as accommo-
dating as his leader was unbending. At a
meeting which Mr. Tunnecliffe attended
they passed a resolution to the effect that
“re-enactment or continuance of reduction
of wages, pensions and social services,” as
embodied in the first paragraph of the Plan,
would be regarded as an offence warrant-
ing expulsion; and the Tunnecliffe tail went
down, to remain down. The Government
had to meet Parliament; it declined to give
an undertaking that the vital 20-p.c.-reduc-
tion provision would be re-enacted for the
financial twelvemonth beginning on July 1,
and was defeated. Mr. Tunnecliffe had to
deliver a policy speech; in this, obeying
the bosses, he repudiated the 20-p.c.-reduc-
tion clause in its bearing on “the salaries
and wages of the lower-paid public servants,”
proposing that “the salaries and conditions
of these officers” should be “determined
by a classification board”—presumably
with power to raise the salaries and improve
the conditions. He went on the platform
with the resignation of Mr. Kiernan, one of
the honorary Ministers, in his pocket. He
had that of Mr. Jones, Minister of Works
and leader of the Leg. Council, before he
returned home.
Mr. Jones has since spoken from the same
platform as Mr. Menzies, the U.A.P. mem-
ber for Nunawading, who is assured of a
post in the Government that will succeed
the Government that has collapsed so
amazingly. Mr. Williams, who was sworn in
as Minister of Works at the instance of
Mr. Tunnecliffe, promptly announced that
he would stand by Mr. Hogan, as also did
Mr. Bailey, the Minister of Lands. These
declarations followed the belated publica-
tion of a cablegram sent by the Premier
from Geneva to the Acting Premier in
Melbourne; it was to the effect that “the
central executive of the A.L.P.” had
“assassinated” the Government and the
Parliamentary Labor party and stood “re-
vealed as an enemy of the people,” and
that the policy speech must pledge the
Government to re-enact the Premiers’ plan,
re-enactment being necessary to preserve
its honor and “to avoid financial disaster.”
This vital message was withheld from the
Cabinet meeting which preceded the de-
livery of the policy speech. Mr. Tunne-
cliffe protests that he “showed it to Minis-
ters as opportunity offered,” but he did
not show it to Ministers who were known
or supposed to be for Mr. Hogan and the
Plan. He had previously denied that Mr.
Hogan was offered and had refused the
Agency-General. Driven to admit that he
had sent a message in the terms “If Cabinet
agrees, would you accept the Agency-Gen-
eral?” he had the face to argue that this
“could not be interpreted as an offer—it was
merely an inquiry.” When last heard from
this extraordinary person was protesting
that he was still loyal to Mr. Hogan, “my
respected leader, who is outstandingly
honest and fearless,” and that “I will do
nothing to impair Mr. Hogan’s control or
interfere with his position as Premier.”
While his “loyalty” was taking such
astonishing forms his A.L.P. masters were
refusing to accredit Mr. Hogan as Labor
candidate for Warrenheip-Grenville, and
were expelling the Ministers and private
members who remained faithful to their
absent leader and to his policy. .
Victoria has had a Labor party for 40
years. In those 40 years it has had three
Labor Governments, which have held office
altogether for three years and ten months;
and it will be a long time before it entrusts
its destinies to a fourth. A few Trades Hall
blatherskites and an elderly politician who
lost his nerve have shattered the party
so completely that the mere thought of
recalling it to office this side of 1940 will
seem ridiculous.
THE OLD MAN’S WAY.
The Old Man in London contemplates cut-
ting down the interest on part of his locally-
held national debt by about £25.000,000 per
annum. At the same time it is intended to
be strictly honest with the bondholders, and
not break faith, as Australia did in a polite
sort of way. At first the acceptance of
reduced interest by Australia’s local bond-
holders was boomed as a voluntary act, but,
it was hinted that no one knew what bad
things might happen to the person who
didn’t generously volunteer, and in time the
confiscation of part of the local interest be-
came tolerably bald and fairly conspicuous.
In the black days of the war the Old Man
in London borrowed a lot of money at high
interest. Even now he owes about
£2,500,000,000 at 5 p.c. interest. Of this
£2,100,000,000 falls due any time between
1929 and 1947. It is a great thing to have a
big 5 p.c. loan falling due if the country’s
credit has so improved that it- can be re-
newed at 4 p.c., thus honestly saving
£21,000,000 per annum. And it is an utterly
rotten thing if incapable politicians have
made such a wreck of the nation’s finances
that nobody feels inclined to renew the big
loan under 6i p.c. That is the difference
between the British and Australian systems.
The Old Man in London has been paying
off some of his war debt, like Canada and
the United States, and his credit has natu-
rally improved. Australia has had a perfect
frenzy of borrowing, finishing with noisy
plans of repudiation, and its credit has gone
to the dogs. It seems rough on the dogs,
especially as so much of the loan money was
wasted to pay for superfluous imports which
merely competed disastrously with Austra-
lian products.
As 1929 was the first year when the Old
Man in London could honestly make a cut
in the interest on his 5 p.c. war debt the
conversion of the debt might have taken
place in 1930, only about that time it
was becoming evident that the Freetrade
doctrine was about to burst. To attempt
to float a big new 4 p.c. loan to replace
the old 5 p.c. burden while Britain was
sitting among the ruins of its old super-
stition wasn’t worth while. For many
years the Old Man had imported much
more goods than he exported, and made up
the deficit out of the profits of his foreign
banks and ships and sundries. When these
profits fell away by £183,000,000 between
1929 and 1931 it was evident that the
foreigner was setting himself resolutely and
economically to do a lot of his own jobs
instead of paying the Old Man to do them.
If the Old Man was to maintain his place
as the world’s boss financier he had this loss
to make good, without arguing that, accord-
ing to Freetrade doctrine, the loss shouldn’t
be. And he decided valiantly that the way
to face the realities of the situation was to
import much less and to manufacture much
more. To bring this about he introduced
a high Protectionist tariff at the beginning
of this year, after one or two tentative-
efforts which made even Finance-Minister
Snowden a convert.
The Old Man in London has found
already that to import much less and to
manufacture much more means more
wages and fewer unemployed. His Foreign-
traders are a vanishing breed, but Foreign-
traders are still active in Australia. Then-
theory is that the tariff should be greatly
reduced, so that the country may import
more and have less room for local manu-
factures, and that the country should go
on borrowing to pay for the imports that
it can’t pay for otherwise —if anyone will
lend it the money. In the heroic years
of the Bruce-Page policy, 1922, 1924, 1926
and 1928, the increases in the foreign
public debt were respectively £40,300,000,
£41,600,000, £40,400,000 and £54,300,000.
Australia doesn’t want a renewal of that
unspeakable calamity.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Playing the Looters’ Game.
Half a dozen street marches were organ-
ised recently by the Garden group to
welcome Premier Lang back from Mel-
bourne. The participants held up the
traffic of a number of main thoroughfares
shortly before the theatre hour as they
strode provocatively to Sydney Town Hall,
On an evening of last week marches were
staged which converged on the Newtown
Town Hall from Edgeware-road, Enmore,
St. Peter’s Bridge, Erskineville, Five Ways
and Missenden-road. Simultaneously an-
other body of marchers proceeded from
North Sydney station to Crow’s Nest.
In most civilised countries which are con-
cerned about preserving law and order
political marches are forbidden. Where they
are allowed, as sometimes happens in toler-
ant England, large bodies of police are
detailed to march with the marchers, then-
twofold object being to protect the demon-
strators from the public and the public
from the demonstrators. Nearly 1000
policemen were required to shepherd the
miners who marched from the coal-produc-
ing centres of England, Scotland and Wales
to Trafalgar-square in 1927. Under Lang-
ism either no permission is required by an
organisation that wants to demonstrate on
semi-military lines, or permission is auto-
matically granted to Langite concerns; and
no adequate police squads are told off to keep


the marchers in hand. It is absolutely certain
that other organisations, seeing the bat-
talions of the so-called Constitutional
Guards promenading the city streets, will
ask permission to follow suit, and if per-
mission is refused will do so in defiance of the
Trades Hall. In either case it may be a
serious matter for law-abiding citizens and
particularly for property-owners.
If Mr. Lang is not looking for serious
trouble he will order his followers to drop
trailing the tails of their coats about the city
and suburbs, and disband the ‘Tying motor
squads.” Of course, if he is looking for
trouble there is no more to be said except
that he will unquestionably find it. No city
in the world that doesn’t want to experience
disorder on a far larger scale than Auckland
(M.L.) did last month can afford to let
uncontrolled political mobs demonstrate in
its streets.
♦
Is Democracy Defenceless?
In a 22-headed impeachment of J. T. Lang
and all that he stands for, E. C. Riley,
Federal member for Cook, enumerates
aspects of Lang’s policy which conflict with
the platform of the party Lang is supposed
to represent. Among other things, the
gentleman who temporarily rules the poli-
tical roost in N. S. Wales is accused of
having jettisoned the Federation and White
Australia planks, imposed a “Fascist dic-
tatorship” upon his followers, and resorted
to terrorism and victimisation. Mr.
Riley further bewails the breaking of the
Premier’s election promises, the destruc-
tion of the Government Savings Bank, the
treachery of the Lang faction to the Fed-
eral Labor party, and the “sequence of un-
savory political scandals” which has accom-
panied the Lang regime.
This philippic is, of course, mainly con-
cerned with the injuries inflicted by Mr.
Lang upon what was once understood to
be his own side in, politics, but it is also
a very powerful indictment of the Consti-
tutions of Australian States. It is shown
that it is quite possible to fit within the
four corners of such a Constitution the
case of a political leader who, having
gained office by false pretences, proceeds
to do, not those things which he promised
to do, or which were implied by his party’s
declared platform, but things at variance
with both promises and platform, inflicting
dishonor and disaster upon the whole elec-
torate, and dragging other States in. The
scope for such a leader is so wide that
N. S. Wales, though it has plumbed depths
of misfortune it never dreamt existed, has
not yet discovered their limits. State law
itself is broken, as the Auditor-General
points out, a Parliamentary majority
being relied upon to validate “irregularities.’
N. S. Wales, in short, has learned very bit-
terly the lesson that, as its Constitution
stands, it has hardly any protection at all
against any gang of politicians, however
irresponsible, vindictive or reckless, once
they get possession of the Treasury benches,
though in impeachment it may have a
method of punishment.
Never in the whole history of democratic
government has it been so strikingly
demonstrated that the only time when the
principles of democracy need have any
respect paid to them is in the little interreg-
num between the dissolution of one legisla-
ture and the election of another. That power-
ful triple safeguard against pledge-breaking
and misconduct, the referendum, initiative
and recall, may, as its critics have pointed out.
be a very ponderous and expensive piece of
mechanism, but the penalties for not pos-
sessing it are also proving very expensive.
In their present mood a lot of people in
the senior State would welcome a cast-iron
addition to the Constitution that should
not only require a political party to publish
its policy complete in every detail when
seeking support, but should oblige it to face
a referendum—with a dissolution as the
penalty of defeat —if it sought to deviate
one jot or tittle from its original charter.
—♦
A Letter from Mr. Tunnecliffe.
Dear Sir, —My attention has been directed
to a paragraph appearing in The Bulletin
of March 9. relating to the accommoda-
tion at the Hospital for the Insane, Kew.
To remove any misunderstanding that
may arise from the paragraph, I desire to
point out that there is no lack of beds or
bedding in the hospitals for the insane, but,
owing to successive Governments having
failed since 1916 to increase the accommo-
dation of these institutions to meet the
annual increment of patients, there was
bequeathed to us a shortage of accommo-
dation to the extent of some 400 patients.
Whilst, with the limited funds now avail-
able, we are doing our best to recover the
ground lost by our predecessors and have
completed, or have in hand, work to pro-
vide an additional 246 beds, the arrears
have not yet been overtaken. In the
interim, at the Hospital for the Insane.
Kew, mattresses are made up each night on
the floor of a day room for certain types
of patients who could not in any event
be trusted to occupy a bed, for fear of their
falling therefrom. The mattresses and
blankets are removed early each morning.
I entirely agree that there was a lack of
foresight in the prosperous years, and that
with the existing depression the indigent
and the sick are now paying the penalty,
but I would suggest that the proper place
for those responsible should be the gaol
rather than the asylum. —Yours faithfully,
T. Tunnecliffe.
Pre-selection in Queensland.
The closing of nominations for the Queens-
land Assembly elections was preceded by
an unprecedented rush of candidates for
pre-selection. This preliminary process was,
as usual, attended by bad feeling, back-
biting and wirepulling on both sides.
Labor-socialism in particular ran true to
form.
The Labor plebiscite-for the Kelvin Grove
electorate is a case in point. There were
four candidates for the party nomina-
tion, and when preferences had been finally
distributed it was announced that Richard-
son and Waters had tied, 157 votes each.
Then the row began. The Waters party
claimed that its man should have been
declared the winner after the first prefer-
ence count, when he had 153 votes to 133.
To add spice to the proceedings, the pre-
siding officers at the four booths impounded
71 votes following on charges of impersona-
tion. It is not, however, alleged that there
was a sliding panel in the ballot-box.
Since there was no time for another ballot,
it was agreed to refer the issue to the
central executive of the Queensland A.L.P.
It was supposed that Richardson would get
that body’s verdict, and there was astonish-
ment when it went to Waters, who had
publicly declared that he might stand as
an independent Labor man if he were not
endorsed. There was a count, of course; it
gave Waters a 34 majority over Richardson.
Among those present were 40 scrutineers
and presiding officers and the candidates.
The press story says that “proceedings were
heated at times,” and that two of the scru-
tineers came to blows. Of the 71 im-
pounded votes 37 were allowed; Waters
received 15, Richardson 7 and the other
candidates the balance between them.
Senator Oollings acknowledged that he
had blundered by extending the preference
counting in his previous wrestle with the
arithmetic of the business.
This central executive has since expelled
two members of A.L.P. branches who have
nominated against “selected” candidates in
other electorates. So does the power of the
party machines increase at the expense of
popular rights.
Gestures and Realities.
So far the Lyons Government cannot be
congratulated on its economy measures,
and in one respect they are apt to do more
harm than good. The
“reorganisation” of the
Health Department
merely amounts to a
number of changes of
title and a few trans-
fers. The only prac-
ticable outcome will be
the discouragement of a
highly-trained scientific
service, the wrecking of
a deal of nationally
valuable work (particu-
larly in relation to
tropical Australia), and
the endangering of the
country’s defences
against epidemic disease
from abroad. The
masses of superfluous
clerks of all grades, pro-
tected by their power-
ful unions, are not only
where they were, but
their leaders are de-
manding vociferously
that they be exempted
from any share of the
self-sacrifice required
for keeping the country-
afloat through the
present sea of troubles.
Until Mr. Lyons
summons up courage to
face them, and to re-
duce. resolutely and
systematically, the cost
of Federal services to
the country’s actual
needs, his sincerity of
purpose must remain in
doubt. The idea, sedu-
lously fostered by the
unions, that because an
officer is on the “classi-
fied” list he is entitled
to a life-long living at
the country’s expense
has no real justification.
At present Australia is
paying for thousands of
unnecessary officers,
appointed in the good
times of unlimited loan
money. It is ridiculous
to claim that they
should have to be car-
ried on the taxpayers’
backs in perpetuity.
A glance at the Fed-
eral Estimates shows a
dozen ways in which
real savings might be
obtained —but for the
spectre of the service
unions. Can Mr. Lyons
really believe that
Repat. needs, 14 years
after the war. the ser-
vices of 338 clerks and
116 typists at a cost of
over £135,000 yearly?
Or nine Commission-
ers. of sorts, costing
£8500? In terms of
relative values, does he consider that the
clerical gentleman who draws £2OOO yeaily
(less deductions) as Defence Secretary is
worth £5OO a year more than the Chief of the
Australian General Staff, £6OO a year moi e
than the Second Naval Member, or £B5O a
year more than the Commandant of the
Royal Military College? Does he honestly
believe that nearly £20,000 yearly of the tax-
payers’ money should be given to Federal
employees, as “Canberra allowance, m
addition to their salaries?
Does Mr. Lyons seriously intend that
sales tax, knowledge tax and all the other
Federal taxes under which Australia is
staggering shall be maintained for ever at
the present rates in order to keep super-
fluous officials on the Federal pay roll?
Is he, an experienced Treasurer, unable to
grasp the elementary fact that if he weie
to abolish the positions of 5000 of these
(as he could do to-morrow), place the dis-
possessed on a limited compassionate allow-
ance of £2 per week for the unmarried
and £3 10s. for the married, he would save
the taxpayer £500,000 a year, without creat-
ing any unemployment or interfering with
any service of any real importance to the
country?
♦
Communism and Sedition.
Dear Bulletin, —“Deport the Communists”
was a popular cry at the general election,
and there is now a promise of legislation
to give to the Commonwealth increased
powers of sending undesirable persons into
permanent exile. But w y e have no power
to dump in any foreign country or other
part of the Empire any persons other than
undesirable immigrants who have come here
recently, and could, or should, have been
refused admission. Australians ought to be
well aware that criminals may not be
shipped at will to lands abroad. In the
’forties we refused to receive any more
convicts from England.
Probably not one in a thousand of the
local Communists could be deported.
Fortunately there are other remedies avail-
able. These are contained in the laws,
common and statute, that make sedition a
crime. And sedition is the most multi-
farious crime there is; it ranges from treason
down to any act that threatens or affects
the order and tranquillity of the State.
English Judges have always refrained, from
any strict definition of sedition in techni-
cal terms lest they should exclude any
acts that might thereafter be deemed
worthy of punishment. Sedition is com-
mitted when men march behind the red
flag; when, in a public hall, Communists
made a cockshy of the King; when men
distribute dodgers, leaflets and papers in-
citing “the workers” to join in the revolu-
tion, and when Communists in control of
a trades-union affiliate with the Third
International. It may be that the Com-
monwealth cannot prosecute in such cases.
But anti-Communist Governments are in
office in some of the States, and may soon
be in office in all. And all the States have
laws which make sedition a crime. Active
and resolute enforcement of these laws
would deliver Australia from the Com-
munist plague.—Yours etc., Lindfield.
» 1
The High Cost of Prohibition.
Dear Bulletin, —When one considers the
position of United States cities, many oi
them wealthy places which can’t pay the
wages of their minor employees because
they are so remorselessly robbed by thugs
in a large way of business like A 1 Capone,
the possibilities of Prohibition are immense.
The saloon-keeper was outlawed and ceased
to pay taxes. Instead, he paid corruption
money to the police and the increased price
of drink. The revenue lost the drink taxes
and also money spent in the effort to run
dow T n bootleggers. There are different sorts
of police in the U.S., many of whom have
nothing to do with the enforcement of the
Prohibition law, though they may take
something to do with it if their corruption
money is late. There is a sort of feeling
that the new system is more costly than
the old one when consideration is given to
the bankrupt cities, to the abundance of
immensely rich and bloodsheddy gangsters
who are all mixed up in the outlawed drink
business, and to the vast and unwhole-
some literature which has grown up around
the art and mystery of bootleggery. The
“Literary Digest” has taken a straw vote,
which shows a 3-to-l majority against Pro-
hibition; only two States were for going
on with it. But hardened criminals
wouldn’t part with Prohibition and go back
to honest work on any account. -Yours etc.,
Sol Malaprop.
WOMEN AND CHILDREN LAST!
“Highly-paid supporters of the Lang party are getting their salaries and wages, but the Family
Endowment and similar bequests have been sus pended, In answer to Mr. Buttenshaw, the PREMIER
said: ‘The mothers and widows will be paid later on."


I bet I know what the doctor
will say... ‘change to
CRAVEN “A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6. 50 in flat tins, 3/9. 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years* Reputation for Quality
• • ,
POLITICAL
POINTS
hatever hope Acting Premier Tunne-
cliffe may have had when he asked for a dis-
solution has been dissipated by the split
in his party. on the Premiers’-plan issue—
the most serious it has suffered since it be-
came a front-bench concern in 1904. Jones
and Kiernan have left the Ministry and
Jackson (Prahran) the party, and Bond
(Port Fairy-Glenelg) is standing as an in-
dependent. Premier Hogan, like Bond, was
refused endorsement by the A.L.P. junta;
but all the Labor branches in Warrenheip-
Grenville are behind him. Hogan will
continue as an M.P., but if he wants to
occupy first or any place in a Ministry he
will have to change his political company.
How can he take orders from men he calls
“political assassins” and “enemies of the
State”?
There are 65 seats in Vic. Assembly, but
only 45 are to be contested on Saturday
week. Ten U.A.P.’s, six Cockies and four
Laborites have been returned unopposed.
Ihe fortunate men include Hogan, Tunnc-
cliffe, Argyle, Allan (all the party leaders,
in fact), Speaker Peacock, Macfarlan, Men-
sues, Bourchier and Maltby.
Win or lose the Queensland election, Moore
and his followers will support the Premiers’
plan. Moore said this in his policy speech; he
said also that ’vis party, if returned, would
stand up to “the growing menace of organised
bodies of Government employees using their
voting power to secure terms and conditions
tar beyond their deserts or beyond the reason-
able capacity of the community.” The other
party, of course, is bidding hard for public-
service support. As things are, selfish and
arrogant leaders of public-service organisa-
tions are forcing people, in their own defence,
to consider the segregation of the public-
service vote. This in Queensland is so dis-
tributed and organised that it has a far greater
value than that of an equal number of ordi-
nary electors. Some of the British univer-
sities elect their own members, and there
are no complaints.
“During the debate on the abolition of the oath
of allegiance, an Opposition speaker said that Mr.
De Valera was playing with fire. He is not the only
one.”
“Betcher I can shove me hand in farther'n
you!”
Forgan Smith, leader of the Queensland
Opposition, started his campaign for the
State election in Mackay, the sugar town
which returns him. He is going to borrow
£2,500,000 and call it “a revival loan.” In
this he is more modest than Lang, who un-
dertook to' borrow a lot more. And Smith
says (as Lang did) that he will restore the
44-hour week and “reopen” the Arbitration
Court—which has never been closed, though
Lang has closed his—and find heaps of jobs
somehow. iHis references to the Premiers’ plan
were vague. They may be more specific after
the Victorian election.
Dunn, the Minister of Agriculture, has
joined the foolish band who are going about
saying “Lang is Right.” Next time he utters
this silly catchword in a public place, some-
one ought to remind Mr. Dunn that Lang
threw him out of his Ministry in 1927, and
ask whether Lang was Right then.
Pre-selectionists succeeded in making Sizer,
the Queensland Minister for Labor, go to a
party plebiscite in Sandgate, which he has
represented for years, but they got no farther.
Sizer had three opponents; he finished 203
votes ahead of the next man, barrister
McLaughlin, in a poll of 548.
As Prime Minister, Scullin stood for the
Premiers’ plan, and his championship of it
gained him some credit. When Tunnecliffe
skittled the 20-p.c.-reduction clause Scullin
was on the platform and said he “gladly
associated himself” with Tunnecliffe. Scul-
lin used to he consistent.
If the Privy Council decides against Lang
in the matter of the abolition of the
Upper House three authorities —Supreme
Court, High Court and Privy Council
—will have told Governor Game that his
weak subservience to
the revolutionary
Premier has led him
into a ditch. The
law gave to the
people the right of a
direct vote on aboli-
tion or preservation
of the Chamber.
Lang could have
settled the problem
either by taking a
vote, which he didn’t
want to do, or by
going tP the country
on the question of
abolishing the vote,
which he was still
less willing to do,
though he swears
that the country is
with him. Some of
Lang’s political heel-
ers apparently think
Governor Game is so
obedient that he may
be used to prolong
the life of Parlia-
ment, and talk of the possibility of Lang
becoming a permanent institution. If Gov-
ernor Game has the idea that he is bound
to agree with Lang as long as Lang is Pre-
mier, the situation is full of possibilities.
After all the fuss about what the gold
bonus was going to cost, the amount actu-
ally paid for the first half of 1931 was
£34,000. With the bonus reduced to 10s. po7-
fine ounce, the outlay for the second half
of the year is expected to be £40,000 or so.
In that case the total cost will be less than
half of the 1930-31 loss on the Post and
Telegraph Department; and Australia gets
no increased production of a saleable com-
modity from that concern.
Langsters have ordered a half-sized bust
of Lang to be made by the hundred and dis-
tributed among “Labor” Leagues, Trades
Hall unions and socialisation committees.
The bust is to be inscribed “The people’s
champion, J. T. Lang,” but this is an un-
necessary expense. “Bust” would be enough.
Though the old-time 72 seats have been
cut to’ 62, there are 163 nominations for the
Queensland election, 12 more than when the
Moore Government came in. Besides the two
main parties the “Queensland party” (it is run-
ning a ticket of 20), Communists and Lang-
pianners are in the field. In 24 electorates
there will .be a three-cornered contest; for
eight, four candidates apiece are standing:
only in 24 will there be a straight-out fight.
Labor has had a good kick-off with four men
returned unopposed. Arnold Wienholt, an
Independent, and one of the best of them,
has also been re-elected for Fassifern.
Australian manufacture of radio machin-
ery dates from the war days. In 1916
Britain, unable to spare even a bolt, asked
Sydney to' instal the spark on vessels, parti-
cularly food-carriers, bound for the war zone.
The industry thus created has thriven to such
an extent that Australian-made apparatus is
being exported to England and there fitted
aboard English ships. Local manufacture of
the valve is shortly to be undertaken, and
thereafter, so far as radio is concerned, the
Commonwealth will be independent.
Uncle Sam’s way with Communists is
short and direct. Condensed account of pro-
ceedings reported in the “Evening Astorian”
(Oregon) :
An aggressive effort having been made to convert
various Finnish co-operative organisations into
appendages of the Third Internationale, the editor
of a Finnish newspaper published in Astoria and
five empoyees were arrested on charges of having
become members of the Communist party, an organi-
sation advocating the overthrow of the U.S. Govern-
ment by force. They are to be deported.
Chapman, of the A.R.U., now one of the
Red International group, must thank his
lucky stars he didn’t emigrate to the U.S.A.
Since good King Thakambau, of Fiji, gave
up cannibalism his islands have led a blame-
less life. Now that has all been threatened,
for an individual—doubtless a valued mem-
ber of Our Party—is on his way from Sydney
with a tin-hare outfit and 25 tucked-up
hounds, intending to foist the lot on the Crown
colony if its rulers dOn’t stop him. Perhaps
they will if they communicate with South
Africa, which decided that the tin hare and
the hard-faced gentry associated with it
were not desirable immigrants, and expelled
them. Cheap gambling is no good to a
country with a huge native population. Fiji,
with its indigenes and its hordes of coolies
from India, will find that out if it lets “the
poor man’s sport” get a footing.
The two Premiers who are most in the
public eye celebrated May Day characteris-
tically. Lang defaulted in payment of in-
terest due to Australians. Tunnecliffe
meekly accompanied the Trades Hall bosses
to the Yarra bank. There Communists
mounted his platform, a motor-lorry, and
“'What did Shylock say?’ Risked Mr. Lang. ‘Thou art the man,’ replied
ex-Speaker Daniel Levy, dramatically pointing at Mr. Lang. ‘You are one
of the wealthiest moneylenders in the Sta te.’ ”— Parliamentary debate .
Shylock Lang ( shrinking from Portia Levy): “A Daniel come
to judgment, yea, a Daniel.”
punched him, punching also Don Cameron,
Crofts (now one of Lang’s Gas Commis-
sioners) and other bosses; and fists were
still flying on the swaying platform, which
the driver had sagaciously set in motion,
when the police arrived. Meanwhile Riley,
president of the Trades Hall Council, had
been kicked off and manhandled on the
ground. _ Poor Tunnecliffe! He has been
a Politician off and on since 1903, and has
suffered more abuse and bash and agony of
mind this last fortnight than in all the
preceding 29-odd years. Yet, like Scullin,
he might have made quite a good leader of
a Government in quiet times.
Not even Parnell at the height of his power
treated his followers as autocratically as
Lang treats liis Ministers, and some of these
Ministers glory in being worms. The egre-
gious Gosling does, anyhow :
The Cabinet has one leader who announces the
policy (the, not its) . When he announces it we
follow. We do not seek to know what he is going to
do, and we are prepared to surrender our judgment,
if necessary, in advance.
And this in a party where Caucus has
always hitherto been regarded as the domi-
nant factor! No more amazing confession
has ever been made by a Labor Minister
since the first Labor Government came into
existence.
The Massie lynching case at Honolulu
is full of interest. Mrs. Massie identified a
young Kanaka as a man who had assaulted
and maltreated her last September. He was
kidnapped in a car, put to torture to make
him confess, and killed when he didn’t con-
fess. The lady’s husband, mother and two
seamen of the U.S. Navy have been found
guilty of manslaughter; and sentence has
been deferred. At first “the naval authori-
ties refused to surrender Massie for trial
on the ground that if they did riots might
break out”; then it was asserted that “no
white woman on the island was safe at
night”; lastly, “U.S. marines were held in
readiness to invade the city at the first sign
of disturbance.” It all makes strange reading
in the light of the frequent American asser-
tion that Jonathan’s brand of imperialism is
immeasurably superior to John’s.
McGirr, tang’s Minister of Transport, has
ordered the members of three Government
railwaymen’s unions which refuse to fake
orders from the Trades Hall to join Trades
Hall unions. It is a lawless as well as
tyrannous proceeding, and it is to be resisted.
We will not submit to Rafferty rules and
Russian propaganda,” says the representa-
tive of one of the menaced organisations;
nor will Australia submit to them. Many
of the threatened employees of the Crown
are returned soldiers. If they yielded they
would mostly become serfs of the insolent
Chapman, secretary of the A.R.U., whose
concern is now one 6f,the Red International
group, and who spoke from a Communist
platform in the Domain on May Day.
Former Federal Minister Forde came
south from his native Queensland full of
prophecies of a sweeping Labor victory next
month. He nevertheless saw fit to rail at
the Moore redistribution scheme as being
designed to “destroy the effectiveness of the
nomad vote.” In the happy Labor days it
was nothing for a locust swarm of “nomad"
voters to be dumped in a doubtful electorate
on pretence of inaugurating a kangaroo
dairy-farm system, or something like that. As
soon as the seat was saved they faded
away, and the dairy-farm scheme was for-
gotten.
Crown costs in the Mungana case were
modest compared with those put in by the
other side. The defence claimed £12,668,
and got about half. The Government’s little
bill was £4055, and the Brisbane Taxing-
Master cut £506 off that. Altogether the
Government is down some £lO,OOO. Lang,
who lives in an atmosphere of briefs, would
call it a fleabite.
“Spare Comrade” : The Reds of some of
the A.R.U. branches have decided to boycott
business men who are members of the New
Guard, or employ members'of it. A list of
alleged members has been compiled and the
scheme is to be put into operation forthwith.
These same people would rend the welkin
with yelps of “victimisation” and similar
catchwords if any of the people they are
attacking applied their “principle” to them.
“Clifford Snook”: There was something
boyish about Governor Game’s action in
taking a front place at one of Lang’s politi-
cal demonstrations last week. The occasion
was a showy police procession through Syd
ney. The police don’t march in processions
as a rule. They are supposed to be about
when other people are marching, but not to
leave their work or sacrifice their rest to
“procesli” themselves. There are many
charges of outrageous conduct against Lang,
seizure of Federal taxation documents among
them. On Thursday the State Auditor-General
reported to Parliament that there had been
“important variations and departures from
the provisions of the Audit Act 1902, and
Treasury regulations issued thereunder.” Yet
on the very next day Governor Game took
the star part in this purposeless and cause-
less political demonstration, and stood up on
the same unnecessary platform with Lang,
so that they were photographed with their
glad smiles almost touching.
“Battling Beasley Stirs Crowd to Intense Enthu-
siasm.”—“Labor Daily” headline.
SECOND: “Bog in, Battling Beasley, an’
knock ’ees block off.”
THE BATTLE: “But I never done no fightin'
before, excep' with me mouth.”
“2nd Divvy” : A few N.S.W. boards, each
of which maintains several key-men at high-
ish salaries, and an army of underlings:
Meat, Flour, Land, Egg, Fisheries, Dried
Fruits, Health, Milk, Canned Fruits, Honey,
Bread, Transport, Pastures Protection,
Tick, Western Lands and Prickly Pear.
It isn't only the straight cost of such
concerns that hits the taxpayer's. In order
not to wring any local withers, I’ll cite a
war-time example. The cheery old dug-out
who commanded a British training brigade
camp where I spent a month in T 7 was an
officer and a gentleman (Regular variety),
and a passionate Empire man and war-
winner. Yet (1) when his wife wanted her
piano from their Yorkshire home, over 100
miles away, he sent a lorry and two soldiers
for it —petrol being rationed at the time;
(2) he had four fit soldiers, who should have
been getting ready for the depleted line,
working in his flower garden and about the
house; (3) he and his used a car, with
soldier chauffeur and the unit’s petrol, for
every, kind of journey, long or short, includ-
ing picnics. There you have the chief curse
Of officialdom from the standpoint of those
who pay the ijiper. The true official, mean-
ing the one with esprit de corps, wastes the
public’s money as a matter'of duty. It is
for the honor and glory of'his job.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
SYNTHETIC RICHNESS.
“No, sir, that isn’t stock soup.”
“And yet it seems to have been watered.”
“D.”: Hugh D. Mclntosh nearly lifted
the roof off the Hotel Australia at a recep-
tion last week with this one: “I see,” he
said, “in this brilliant assembly my old
friend Percy Hunter. He was the first
man I ever borrowed money from, and one
of the few I ever paid back”; (thoughtful
pause) “and if my affairs go on as they’re
doing at present, he’ll be the last.” But I
heard Owen Hall get an even bigger laugh
in London years ago. His real name was
Davis (he was Gilbert Frankau’s uncle),
and he adopted his nom de theatre because
it sounded like “owing all.” He had just
been made bankrupt for the fourth time,
and the finish of his speech had to do with
his manifold embarrassments. “However,”
he concluded with a wistful smile, “I pro-
pose to struggle gamely on to the end till
I taste one or other of the only experiences
life lias to offer that I have never yet
known —death or solvency.” Owen Hall,
like Mclntosh, thought in millions, _ always
looked as if he had them, and didn’t know
the meaning of nerves, fear or defeat.
:J: * * *
“S.T.S.”: A police court in S.A. has beeii
considering the print of a man’s palm found
on glass broken in a burgled shop. A finger-
print expert said that palm prints have just
been introduced by Scotland Yard, and are
quite as definite as the smaller print, also
much easier to read.
* * * *
“The Moucher”: That Darwin financier
who lifted a reward offered by an orcliardist
by informing against his own child for fruit-
stealing (P>. 27/4/’32) has a rival in N.S.W.
This enterprising person, who is now serving
a month’s imprisonment, “worked” houses
in the suburbs with a haggard-looking woman
by his side and an infant wrapped in a
shawl in his arms. Householders were
appealed to for funds to buy milk for a
starving baby, and for a time the under-
taking flourished. The gaff was blown, how-
ever, when the suffering infant, after a
violent struggle, barked furiously at one of
its prospective benefactors. It turned out
to be a dissolute fox terrier, which up to that
time had played the part of a suffering
clieild with what the dramatic critics call
“masterly restraint.”
“10-2-4” : The Sydney “Sun” published a
yarn about the Prince last week which
sounded too like him to be ballyhoo. He
had accidentally trodden on the foot of a
small boy at an unemployed nursery school
which he was visiting. “Now you can tread
on mine,” lie said, and the kid solemnly did
so. I happened to be at a writing-desk in
a club behind Edward P. one afternoon when
lie was in Sydney. Four stout baldlieads
were in armchairs running parallel to the
desks, and one of them ordered tea. The
girl who brought it in was not the ofie who
liad taken the order, and she stood puzzled
at the door. The Prince noticed her, halt-
beckoned, and with outstretched finger, so
to speak, speared the unconscious spine ot
the tea-orderer. The girl smiled her thanks,
delivered the tray, and the Prince went on
writing. It struck me as a human per-
formance, and something more. Anyone
might have been equally willing to help the
young woman —particularly as she was by
n 0 means uncomely —but it required uncom-
mon tact to spot what was wrong and think
out a way of righting it in the time.
* ❖ * *
“Eiffel”: A new page in the history of
Sydney’s Harbor Bridge was opened last
week, when two persons utilised the ten-
million-pound structure for self-destruction
on successive days. The danger is insepar-
able from all high places, and it is always
liable to attain the dimensions of an epi-
demic. Early in last century so many
persons propelled themselves into the next
world from the London Monument that the
gallery had to be railed in as a discourage-
ment. The Clifton suspension bridge,
opened in 1864, had a grim record, too, for
the first two or three years, so much so
that extra police were stationed there and
other preventive measures taken. Still people
who feel impelled to jump off bridges gener-
ally choose the section where there is water
beneath, and the comparative narrowness of
the Bristol Avon helped to cramp the danger
zone. It is a very different thing with
Sydney’s Bridge; even if persons anxious to
quit this world restricted themselves to the
main arch span directly over the harbor it
would be a difficult and costly thing to make
over a thousand yards of railing suicide-
proof. And most people hold that the Bridge
has cost a lot too much already.
* St * *
“Stiffner”: Licensing laws, like others,
permit of pleasant little legal fictions occa-
sionally. In a N.S.W. country town the
other day a lady innkeeper was called on to
show cause why her license should not be
cancelled, she having failed to make certain
improvements ordered by the Court two
years ago. Hard times were pleaded by the
defendant, and a sympathetic beak decided
merely to suspend the license for two hours,
which course, he pointed out, would auto-
matically cancel the order for improvements
and enable Mistress Bung to renew opera-
tions with a clean sheet and nothing hang-
ing over her head. It reminds me of a West-
ralian pub I once, sojourned in where the
saloon bar was detached from the main
building by the width of the carriage-way,
•some 10ft. or 12ft. The bar had been in
existence for years when the police sud-
denly discovered that the law was being
broken daily and nightly; the Licensing Act
requires that licensed premises should be
all in one piece, so to speak, and forbids the
vending of liquor in any room not attached
to the main premises. Bung, after taking
legal advice, had the omission remedied in-
side of an hour by nailing up a thin batten
IT WASN’T SHOCK-PROOF.
“Does Joan look any better now she’s had her face lifted?"
“No. When she got the bill it dropped again.”
of wood to connect the roofs of the two build-
ings, and the Law, as represented by the
sergeant of police, professed itself quite
satisfied with the flimsy attachment.
* * * *
“Clarence Cafeteria”: A Melbourne man
who deals in feminine goods is a great
believer in the personal touch, but he
has been so hard hit by Depresh that he
has had to reduce his staff to almost
nothing else but himself and the office
cat. But adversity sharpens the wits and,
most of his business contacts being made by
letter, he gets over it thus. If an inquiry
comes from a lady signing herself “Mul-
vaney” he replies signing the firm’s name
“P. P. Dooley.” A letter from Mrs. McTavish
is answered by Mr. MacDonald and one
from Mrs. Lamaro receives one from Mr.
Pagliacci. The Smiths and the Bakers don't
matter so much, but in regard to the others
he claims that the atmosphere of national
sentiment created is invaluable.
* * * *
“Incumbent”: A rector has been sued
in a N.S.W. court for arrears of payment
on the parish motor-car. He pleaded, in
asking fo|r the benefit of the
Moratorium Act, that his stipend
was £612 in arrears, and until he
could collect some of that he was
unable to square up. The Judge
was sympathetic and deferred
further action for six months. The
name of his parish is Copman-
hurst; readers of “Ivanhoe” will
recall that the original incumbent
of the English place of that name
in Sherwood Forest was one Friar
Tuck. When that pastor’s flock
were shy in the ante his methods
were much more direct than those
employed by needy clerics to-day;
he simply took bow and bill and
went into the greenwood to collect
his dues from the first person he
encountered,
“Centurion” : Anzac Day brought
the usual reminder in the press
that thousands of unclaimed war
medals are lying at the various
military headquarters in Aus-
tralia. Medals have a curious
habit of running late. A recent
English cable told of the receipt
by one Thomas Whitworth, of
Birmingham, of the Indian Mutiny
medal won by his father at the
relief of Lucknow. At jalmost
the same time; Severin Sorenson,
of Cairns (N.Q.), received from a grateful
country the silver cross of the Dannebrog,
which he won when fighting with Denmark
against Prussia in 1864.
$ ❖ $ *
“Eugene A.” : The charred bones of three
different individuals, along with a few of
their least destructible personal belongings,
have been found of recent months in dif-
ferent parts of Australia’s open spaces, with
signs of a huge fire having raged beneath
them. The first victim had come to his end
in the Goulburn (N.S.W.) district; he was
identified after some trouble as a young man
from Sydney who had hoisted bluey and
done a bit of amateur prospecting, and for
some weeks the police were busy trying to
ascertain in whose company he had last
been seen and whether anyone had a motive
in murdering him. The suicide theory was
scarcely contemplated until no clue could bo
found to lead anywhere. Next false teeth
and other fragments of a body were identi-
fied in the remains of a bonfire near the
rabbit-proof fence on the Murchison, and in
due course one “Snowy” Howies, a former
mate of the dead man, was arrested, charged
with murder, convicted and sentenced to be
hanged. Lastly, a Sunday or two ago, all
that remained of a cremated squatter was
located near Glen Innes (N.S.W.). But in
this case there was no mystery whatever, the
pastoralist having thoughtfully left a note
detailing his intention to shoot himself after
igniting his own funeral pyre. The police im-
mediately seized upon his fate to corroborate
their second-thoughts theory about the Goul-
burn mystery, and maybe they were right.
But if the squatter’s self-immolation had hap-
pened a little earlier, or if anyone had emu-
lated it on the other side of the continent,
it is possible that the jury would have
hesitated to convict Bowles.
* x * *
“Mako” : That she has laid and repaired
cables for 20 years is not the Recorder’s
only claim to fame (B. 27/4/’32). As
the Iris she chased the escaped German
prisoners, headed by Von Luckner, when
that astute commander neatly got away
from Motuihi Island, near Auckland, by
annexing the Commandant’s launch, after-
wards discarded in favor of the scow Moa,
which was commandeered in the Hauraki
Gulf. The Iris showed judgment and speed
in tracking the Germans to the lonely
Kermadecs, where they had missed the raider
Wolf, deputed to pick them up, by two days.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Hitherto the cable trams of Mel-
bourne as they are scrapped have found a
home in some suburban back yard or on
some allotment in the hills as a week-end
retreat. A more sensational future may
possibly lie ahead of 2000 tons of them
which w T ere recently loaded into a Japanese
boat bound for the vast industrial slum of
Kobe, where a great proportion of Nippon’s
sinews of war is manufactured. If Japan
continues her present warlike career the old
wheels that have borne innumerable Mel-
bourne citizens to their daily toil may find
a final home in the bodies of Chinese soldiers
fighting . the traditional enemies of the
Flowery Land.
=:= * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Extract from the true diary
of John Neversaydie, of Kew, Melbourne,
two years unemployed :
Got up this morning at 9 a.m. Nothing to eat.
Brushed and pressed and put on the old suit; looks
not too bad. Got out the old ’bus and went pros-
pecting, about half gal. in tank. Engine faded out
in St. Kilda-road, near Shrine. Hailed Robinson
and asked him for coupler gal., also loan of ten-bob
note. R. looked hard at me but I swore on dying
oath would return it within eight hours. Got under
way again, bought morning paper—no notion what
I was going to do.
10.30. Had brain-wave. Turned her nose towards
Toorak and presently east anchor off moderately
swell house in Kooyong-road. Asked old dame had
she any old gold to sell. No? Not even a cast-off
set of false teeth with gold plate? Oh, yes—
didn’t know anybody would want to buy things like
that. She threw in with the teeth some old earrings
and things. I didn’t know whether some of them
were gold or not; but I took a chance and offered
her the ten-bob note. Delighted, not to say sur-
prised. Weighed anchor and steered for a city
jeweller’s shop. Got 30 bob for the lot. Only one
a dud.
12. Felt hungry. Had fivepenny counter lunch.
12.10. Banked Robinson’s note in hip-pocket for
safe deposit and set sail again fof Kooyong-road.
Tried sweller house. Ore cost me 17 bob and assayed
out in city for £5.
3 p.m. Returned to Toorak-road. Struck old
bachelor, retired company director, contemplating
chrysanthemums. Rich, by the look of his hutch.
Said he didn’t know there was a Depression on.
Gave him £5 for a bagful of odds and ends. Only
sentimental value they had, he said, and he had
grown too old for sentiment.
4.30 p.m. Jew’eller gave me £32 10s. for that
lot. Profit, £32 165., enough for one day.
5.30. Bought half a dozen bottles and drove out
to Robinson’s to return the 10 bob.
2 a.m. To bed. W ruder why gold, prospectors
go to the Dandenongs.
THE EXILE.
[F OR THE BULLETIN.]
“A Sydney theological student, successfully petition-
ing for divorce last week, on the ground of desertion,
said that his wife had described her eight years of
married life in this country as a hideous nightmare.
She could not bear any place in Australia unless
the scenery had some resemblance to that of Eng-
land.”
She wed, I’m game to wager, in a hurry,
Imagining perhaps with pleasant thrills
There’d be suggestions of the hills of Surrey
In such localities as Surry Hills.
Vain hopes! She found the real thing a
worry,
Her goat was gotten and up went her
quills,
Like those the picturesque Shakspearean line
Attributes to the fretful porcupine.
She pined for pines and counted it disaster
They didn’t seem the sort she’d known
of old ;
She hankered for sylvestris or pinaster;
Our own insignis, I suspect she told
With scornful emphasis her lord and master
Left her, with Norfolk Island giants, cold.
She yearned for oaks and elms to meet her
view,
And these, you know, are singularly few.
I seem to glimpse her petulantly snarling
And sorely disillusioned, too, to find
The spacious Downs denominated Darling
Are scarce the Wiltshire or the Sussex
kind.
She liked to see the sparrow and the starling,
Since both recalled the land she’d left
behind.
But the bold kookaburra’s boisterous laugh.
That didn’t grate upon her nerves, not half!
She sniffed at rolling plains and kept her
praises
For Kentish or Devonian countryside,
For fields aglow with buttercups and daisies,
For lanes with banks of primrose
bea'utified,
For churches ivy-clad—and where the blazes
You’d find them here, however hard you
tried,
I do not know —in any marked degree,
That is. No more presumably did he.
I wonder where she raised the final shindy
At scenery which held no faintest sign
Of that she’d left. Was it at far Menindie
Or Wantabadgery or Narroinine
That love flew definitely “out the windy,
Or somewhere on the trans-Australian line?
Was it Nullarbor Plain that made her close
The chapter and vacate the coop? Who
knows?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Nemo”: With every Crown grant that is
made in Westralia there is a condition in
regard to rent. Lifted from the old English
land laws, it was included, probably by in-
advertence, in the Land Act of 1898. Only
twice in the history of the Lands Depart-
ment has anyone complied with it. Recently
a Nornalup settler received a town-lot grant,
and evidently took careful note of tlje cover-
ing form, which states that the land in ques-
tion is “theirs for ever....they yielding
and paying for the same to Us, onr Heirs and
Successors, one peppercorn of yearly rent
on the twenty-fifth day of March each year.”
In this case the grantee, a woman, sent along
double the amount of rent required—two
peppercorns—and made assurance doubly
sure by dispatching the “rent” four days
before it was due.
sji s’:
“Perdu” : Surely no city with over a mil-
lion inhabitants possesses such close and
handy woodland fastnesses for a fugitive
from the law as Sydney, especially if the
fugitive happens to be a bit of a bushman.
For over a week recently hundreds of police
and voluntary assistants scoured extensive
tracts of tangled scrub on one side of the
metropolis for a wanted man, and while they
were still combing the area and dashing
hither and thither at every fresh report of
someone resembling their quarry having been
seen, the hunted one crept out of the hue-
and-cry area under cover of night, stole a
bicycle, crossed the city and the Harbor
Bridge, and found a new lair for himself in
French’s Forest, within even easier distance
of Sydney. It might very well have proved
a more secure one, for he left no track be-
hind him, had he not unguardedly exposed
his presence to a passer-by when ho was
being hunted for 20 or 30 miles away. A
man with a price on his head must have food
of course, but with scattered farmhouses or
TRUE TO FORM.
“I dreamt Billy stopped the car away out
in the country.”
“Yes?”
“Then I woke up and found myself walk-
ing in my sleep.”
poultry yards to be robbed o’ nights that
problem isn’t insoluble. There can hardly
be another great city in the world where
there is so much natural “cover” available,
quite outside of the artificial shelter of the
slums.
v
“Nakhoda”: The plea that he had never
seen a motor-car and, thinking it was a mon-
ster, fired at it, was put forward by a Daur
tribesman accused of murdering a British
aircraftsman in Waziristan. When Cobluim
made’ history by flying to Australia in a
Moth he had his speed record adversely
affected by an Arab who shot at him in
Mesopotamia. It Avas claimed that he took
the machine for a bird, probably the roc,
which Sindbad fleAv in those parts. It Avas
a thin excuse, since the R.A.F. must have
made the aeroplane familiar to any Arab
not a Rip Van Winkle during the war and
the years of pacification afterwards, but
queer ideas about mechanical transport still
persist in the less sophisticated portions of
the globe. When I rode a motor-cycle
through a remote district in East Java the
natives used to rush out after I had passed,
kneel doAvn and kiss or smell the tracks. I
got only evasive answers when I asked them
why they did it. They feed their offspring
on the chopped-up bristles of tigers in order
to make them brave, so perhaps they were
trying to absorb any .. use-power that had
been left in the du.st.
“Quack”: It is refreshing to note that a
prominent London physician has protested
bitterly against the exorbitant fees exacted
by surgeons, whom he describes as merely
skilled carpenters. The charge is not un-
founded, and the comparison is apt. Manual
dexterity, coupled with a knowledge of the
materials in which he is working, are the
common requirement of botli the carpenter
and the chirurgeon. Major operations in
surgery, such as the most modest of practi-
tioners will charge 25 guineas for, are per-
formed successfully every day by ordinary
workers on sheep and cattle stations as a
matter of course, some of them, such as the
spaying of heifers, being abdominal in their
nature, a circumstance which always adds
considerably to the surgeon’s bill. Our
ancestors knew better than we. They classed
surgery as a handicraft and confined its
practice to barbers, who combined it with
their own skilled trade for many generations.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: The complications that can
arise over the simple matter of having a
drink were illustrated in a Supreme Court
appeal in Melbourne the other day. A fire-
man was found on licensed pre-
mises at 8 p.m. in front of an
empty glass. According to the
seaman, his ship had arrived at
0 a.m. that day. It was claimed
for the licensee that he was a
bona-fide traveller, because he
was more than 20 miles away
from heme or the place where
he had slept on the previous
night. Counter-argument was that
the drink had been consumed in the office,
and liquor drained outside a dining-room
could not be said to be liquor served with a
meal. Moreover, the law did not contem-
plate ships as homes. Thousands of tars are
no doubt waiting with poignant interest the
verdict of Cussen, acting C.J.
s': * * *
“N.S.F.”: That yarn of the inebriated
accountant who signed me office pay cheque
with a pen dipped in mustard from the
counter-lunch (B. 23/3/’32) reminds me
that London County Council has installed
a mechanical cheque-signer, which turns
out a thousand cheques an hour. Only one
set of original signatures is required, and
the electrical-driven gadget does the rest.
In addition to the signature, the machine
will impress on the cheque a photograph of
the signing officials or any design favored,
and these may be varied as required, pro-
viding additional safeguards against forgery.
It is a great idea, but my own impression is
that what the world badly needs to-day is
not so much a machine that will sign cheques
as one that will cash them without question.
* :!: * ❖
“Ivoradi”: It was left to a young Maori
brave to introduce a little bit of comic relief
into the recent smash-and-grab outbreak in
Auckland. Huia Toroa had enrolled as a
special constable and rendered valuable ser-
vice in assisting to restore order. Then the
primitive and predatory instinct came upper-
most; Huia ceased to
be a protector and be-
came himself a raider.
After helping himself
to some rings and
articles of clothing he
calmly resumed his
role of public guard-
ian ; but the mis-
chief had been done; he was caught
red-handed and thrown into the basket
with the rest of the catch. The police-inspec-
tor’s comment that Huia Avas regarded as
a decent sort of chap added a matey touch to
proceedings, and a lenient beak made it five
pounds or a month.
❖ ❖ ❖ $
“Moggs” : The French insist on plenty of
variety in Governments ; another Gallic char-
acteristic, noted in a recent cable, is the
plurality of candidates at election-time. For
the 615 constituencies which are about to
return members of Parliament the average
number of entries is a shade under six; for
one, St. Girons, there are 85 competitors for
the suffrages of their fellow-citizens! Pre-
sumably preferential voting doesn’t obtain
ill France, or the exercise of the franchise
would involve some really hard work in St.
Girons. It is hardly credible that there can
be anything either that corresponds to for-
feited deposits in most British communities;
if there is, the Republic can look forward to
a Avindfall in cases like these. I wonder
what is the record number of candidates
Australia can show. At the first N.S.W.
Senate election there were 50; but then
there were six seats.
“Query”: “Mug Electrician” (8.20/4/’32)
asks AA'hy electric irons cannot be rendered
foolproof and standardised, but I know of
plenty that are still going strong after at
least 10 years’ service. To all intents and
purposes they are foolproof, resisting even
the frequent neglect to turn off the current
and prevent the iron from getting red-hot
when the operator is called away. But there
A DULL LIFE.
“I want to be exactly like mother when I grow up.”
“I don’t; she’s dieting.”
is one thing that will upset even the most
faithful of electric irons, and that is faulty
wiring installation. In many old houses, a
thorough overhaul of the entire system of
supply would avert many a blown fuse on
lights, irons and other kinds of electric appli-
ances. As far as standardisation is con-
cerned, nothing could be worse for electrical
progress; it would simply mean the mini-
mum of safety and utility allowed, and
the tendency would always be to exalt the
standard as fulfilling all public requirements.
It is competition only that gives us con-
tinued improvement in designs. All that
householders need to do is to have their
homes wired properly, and to use safe and
efficient brands of appliances, of which there
is no lack.
* * * *
“X.S.”: It is difficult in these days for a
magistrate to ignore a plea of poverty, how-
ever fantastic it may seem to the ordinary
observer. A man charged with not sending
his child to school in Melbourne in' accord-
ance with the Act was fined two shillings or
six hours’ imprisonment. He said he would
have to go to gaol. “If we give you time
can you pay?” asked ’Sonah. The accused
said he would try, so the beak gave him four
Aveeks in which to find the money.
$: *■ * *
“R. Volt”: The record of a recent court
case at Manchester (Eng.) Avas made by
means of a talkie-microphone working in
conjunction with an electro-magnetic steel
tape. This opens up interesting possibili-
ties. “Hansard” might be abolished, along
with its staff of indulgent stenographers
marcelle-waving the tangled locks of Farlia-
mentary rhetoric,
and in its place
wou4 d stand a
photo-electric cell
impressing the bad
grammar, profanity
and snores of honor-
able members on a
celluloid roll. It
could then be made
obligatory on Gov-
ernments to main-
tain talkie booths
in the streets, where
the pol i t i cally-
minded citizen, by pressing a button, could
listen for as long as he could stand it to
the way his representatives make the laws.
It would be a staggering revelation to those
who have never listened to a Parliamentary
debate.
* * * *
“Lorraine”: There are dog-fanciers who
would cheerfully go to the stake in defence
of Lxicir contention that the Alsatian dog
is essentially a gentle and amenable animal,
but they shift their ground a good deal. One
of such, writing to a Sydney paper, solemnly
expounds his theory that it is the name, not
the nature, of the breed which has gained
the Alsatian the reputation of ferocity, and
the name, it is added, was adopted because
“to have called the animal ‘German shop-
herd dog’ in war-time would have been
fatal.” But surely there is nothing sinister
or blood-curdling in itself about the word
derived from the country of origin. To the
average mind it would probably conjure up
a picture of peaceful pastoral simplicity,
with shepherds tending their flocks in the
foreground and blue mountains in the offing.
One has heard of objections, to the word
“wolf-hound” because of the implications it
is held to convey—though no similar ones
are ever hinted at in the case of deerhound
or foxhound—but there is really nothing
more “ferocious” in the word “Alsatian”
than there is in “Pomeranian.”
* * * *
“Nakh.”: Mr. Henderson, in summaris-
ing the progress of the Disarmament Confer-
ence, reported the other day that the. dele-
gates generally had agreed to the abolition of
ships exceeding 10,000 tons, that many
States favored the abolition of submarines,
and that interest had been shown in the pro-
hibition of air raids and bacteriological war-
fare. He didn’t say whether the interest
was favorable or hostile, but in view of
what happened with regard to poison-gas
in the last war it doesn’t seem to matter
which way the verdict goes. It is a foregone
conclusion that in the next war, even if
all the belligerents pledge themselves not
to fire germs at each other, an epidemic
or epidemics of some sort or other will break
out behind the lines. The enemy will auto-
matically be accused of having caused the
infection, and all the combatants will at
once proceed to rise the same weapon with a
good conscience. Messrs. Wunksteins’ muni-
tion plant will be an interesting spectacle.
Sufferers from yellow jack, malaria, bil-
harzia, cholera, Spanish influenza and guinea
worm will rally at the nation’s call, and
expert scientists will proceed to invent ways
and means of conveying the greatest pos-
sible number of germs to the greatest pos-
sible number of the enemy population.
Prophylactic measures against infection will
be applied to every man, woman and child
within the danger area, and it will be the
patriotic duty of every medical man to find
new contagions for which preventive serums
have not been discovered. Of course, medi-
cal scientists throughout the world might
sign a solemn league and covenant not to
assist in the pleasant pastime, but, human
nature being what it is, I doubt whether
this would be efficacious.
* * * *
“Nikko”: I can offer “Innisfree” (B.
27/4/”j2) a shorter and better tongue-
twister for suspected inebriates than “mixed
biscuits.” Ask anyone drunk (or sober, for
that matter) to' say quickly half a dozen
times the word “zither.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Customs Minister Gullett made
the rash promise the other day that he
would lift the duty on educational books
if somebody would provide him with an
adequate definition of “educational.” Most
men who have attained eminence in art.
literature and even in science have usually
declared that they began their education
after leaving school, which means that
school-books arc not educational. H. G.
Wells is emphatic on the point. Forel, the
author of “The Sexual Problem,” wrote in
1900 that the student would find more truths
about sex pathology in the short stories of
De Maupassant than in all the scientific
works written subsequently. Yet most edu-
cationists would rank De Maupassant as a
writer of entertaining and even pornographic
fiction, and Prof. W. A. Osborne, judging by
his remarks as film censor, is of the opinion
that he should never have written books at
all, but contributed liis researches to medi-
cal journals. The most sensible way out
of an absurd situation would be for Gulled
to lift the duty on all books. Australia is
not over-burdened with culture, and good
literature is now beyond the means of all
but the class that doesn’t read it.
A HEAVY WASH.
“Do all the angels wear white robes.
Mummy?”
“Yes.”
“What a frightful time poor Mrs. God must
have on Mondays!”
A PROTEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They called the flowers by gentler names
Of old, as was but proper;
They never termed a slender thing,
As fragile as a fairy’s wing,
That bore the very breath of spring
“The Reverend Wentworth Popper.”
Thus they’ve bequeathed us names a few
That suit the situation,
As jonquil, snowdrop, mignonette,
Or buttercup—they’re music yet.
These modern ones I’d fain forget;
They cause me irritation.
Of old they strove to fit the case
In floral nomenclature;
With genuine content I thrill:
They got in first with “daffodil.”
Its name, had moderns had their will,
Had been a slight to Nature.
So let’s return to simpler ways,
And I for one will thank ye.
’Tis anti-climax too severe
To watch a fragrant bloom appear,
And ask the name, and then to hear
It’s “General Silas Hankey.”
Queensland.
ARIADNE.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DITCCtOYS *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Iroyal gold & currency EXCHANGE CO.
40 Martin Place,
Sydney.
Phone 85417.
Also at
328 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
Highest Rates for the following Currency:
English Silver Coin.. £l3 9
English Copper Coin.. 116
English Notes .. 15 0
Sovereign .. .. 1 11 6
N.Z. Notes .. ..£1
Canadian Dollar Bills
American Dollar Bills
American Silver Dollars
2 0
5 8
6 5
5 6
• • • • w ■*•■*•***'■'“ * " -
Licensed Buyers of Alluvial G old and Broken Jewellery of all
kinds. Specialists in Black Opals.
(Registered)
Reference:
E., S. & A.
Bank, Sydney.
New Zealand
and Interstate
clients consign
all goods
direct.
Send Your Tyres to“ Southern Cross "for Retreading
We Fend C.O.D. to any part of N.S.W.
FLAT RATE RETREADING.
All car sizes
17/6
All car sizes
(With supertough Rubber Retreads with
popular diamond pattern for long life and wear.)
22/6
All truck sizes
30/-
Also full stocks of new tyres and tubes, also J. 0.8. tyres.
Send them along to-day. Write or ’phone.
’PHONE 81110. ’ ’PHONE BXIIO.
SOUTHERN CROSS TYRES, LTD.,
75 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some May birthdays :
Prof. G. C. Henderson, M.A. (biographer of Geo.
Grey), 62, T. A. L. Davy (W.A.’s Attorney-Gen.),
42, and Vic. Crown Prosecutor Book, 37, on Ist;
Senator Major-Gen. Charlie Cox, 69, on 2nd; Justice
Rich (High Court), 69, Prof. T. H. Laby, F.R.S.
(Melb.), 62, and Colin C. Stephen (Syd.), 60, on
3rd; ex-Federal Minister C. L. Abbott, M.H.R., 46,
and Chas. Earle (“Dominion,” M.L.), 61, on 4th;
ex-N.S.W. Premier Bavin, 58, on sth; former Vic.
Premier Prendergast, 78, on 6th; J. T. Heathershaw
(Federal Treasury), 61, on 7th; Geo. Mackaness,
D. Litt. (biographer of Bligh), 50, on 9th; Claude
H. Reading (Syd.), 58, and N. F. Spielvogel (Vic.),
58, on 10th; Canon E. S. Hughes (Melb.), 72, on
12th; Bishop James (St. Arnaud), 55, on 13th;
S. Aus. Premier Hill, 51, and ex-N.S.W. Senator
Col. Abbott, 63, on 14th; Q. Chief Justice Blair,
61, on 16th; knight Newton Moore (sometime
Premier of W.A.), 62, and poet Leon Gellert, 40, on
17th; Brig.-Gen. Harold Grimwade, 63, and Dr. Percy
R. Cole (Syd. Teachers’ Col.), 53, on 18th; ex-
P.M.G. Gibson, 63, and F. J. Rae (Director of
Melb. Botanic Gardens), 49, on 20th; Prof. Cole-
ridge Farr, F.R.S. (M.L.), 66, on 22nd; Justice
Angas Parsons (S. Aus.), 60, and Judge Beeby, 63,
on 23rd; Q. ex-Gov. Goodwin, 61, and Ivor Mac-
Gillivray (ex-M.P. of S. Aus.), 92, on 24th; knight
Arthur Cocks (Syd.), 70, knight Fred Waley (Syd.),
72, and Brig.-Gen. W. R. McNicoll, M.H.R., 55, on
27th; ex-N.S.W. Chief Justice Cullen, 77, and ex-
Judge Backhouse (N.S.W.), 81, on 28th; former
Melb. Uni. Prof. Berry, 65, on 30th; Q. Senator
Foil, 42, and Capt. L. S. Bracegirdle (Gov.-Gen.’s
staff), 51, on 31st.
The tariff has brought L. St. G. Roberts
back to his native land. Roberts was born
in South Australia. He left with the 10th
Battalion and served on Gallipoli. .In Eng-
land after the Armistice he turned his talents
to commercial chemistry, and invented a dis-
infectant from eucalyptus leayes. From that
he went to managing the business of Lyptol,
Ltd., which imports its raw material from
Victoria and exports it to all parts of the
world. The tariff on its goods induced the
firm to consider manufacture in Australia.
A £500,000 factory is projected, either at
Melbourne or Geelong.
Few Australians of our time have stood
higher in public estimation than Adrian
Knox, the second .Chief Justice of the High
Court, dead at 69. His father was Edward
Knox, who did much towards the establish-
ment of the sugar industry in this country;
the future C.J.’s education was completed, at
Harrow and Cambridge, and, after being
called at the Inner Temple, he returned to
N. S. Wales to practise in 1886. Eight
years later Woollahra sent him to the Legis-
lative Assembly, but one term proved suffi-
cient for him. As an advocate his rise was
rapid; his intellectual gifts steadily earned
for him one of the most remunerative prac-
ADRIAN KNOX in his great days, as Low
saw him.
tices in the Commonwealth. He took silk in
1906; he could have been a Supreme Court
Judge if his inclinations had pointed that
way, and when Samuel Griffith died in 1919
there was never much doubt as to who would
get the first offer of the highest judicial post.
Before that Knox had done valuable war
work as Red Cross Commissioner in Egypt.
He had a passion for the turf, arid the asso-
ciations he formed there were one of the
causes of his retirement from the Bench a
couple of years ago, when John Brown
made his old friend the C.J. his executor
and residuary legatee.
Francis Calcino, whose death at 84 in
Queensland is reported, was a Piedmontese
who arrived in 1878 and established the first
vineyard on the Western Downs. This was
on Mt. Abundance station, near Roma, and
wines from Mt. Abundance won more than
one gold medal in the annual Brisbane exhi-
bitions. In later years he took up sheep-
farming near Charleville, and still later tried
to establish sheep on Facing Island near
Gladstone and on Moreton Island, both ven-
tures being eventually abandoned. Calcino
was one of the fathers of the Queensland
Fascist!, many of whom attended his funeral.
LEWIS MACDONALD, secretary of the
central executive of the Queensland
A.L.P. Appeals against selection-ballot
results, expulsions and election prepara-
tions are keeping him busy.
Faint murmurs of the martial music to
which 25,000 returned men marched on
Anzac Day in Melbourne reached the ears of
Donald Mackinnon, former Director-General
of Recruiting, as he lay dying in a private
hospital. He passed ont before midnight, and
flags all over the city were half-masted next
day. The Kirk (particularly Scots’ Church
in Collins-street), politics, pastoralist inter-
ests, clubland, sport, diplomacy, patriotic
associations (notably the Scottish Union, em-
bracing all Caledonian organisations), the
A.N.A. and the Defence forces all mourned
him. Mackinnon had a great sense of service,
and profit or self-aggrandisement for such ser-
vice was the last thing he thought of. During
his 20 years in Vic. Assembly he was at
different times Opposition leader, group
leader of the Liberals, Honorary Minister,
Attorney-General and Assistant Minister for
Lands. To many he was known best of all
as president of Vic. Cricket Association.
Arthur Tully, whose death is reported in
Siam, was one of the Australian pioneers of
alluvial tin-mining in those parts. His was
an adventurous life; over a generation ago
he was in the front rank of Sydney boxers,
and, going to Africa, he took part in the
Jameson Raid and the Boer War, subse-
quently turning to gold-mining. For a time
he was a bookmaker at Singapore, where he
earned a reputation for big-heartedness as
well as integrity. The last scene was at
Nacon, Siam, where he succumbed to tropi-
cal complications, aged 59.
Bendigo (Vic.) has lost Jim Curnow, one
of its best-known and most active public
men; he was five times mayor, and spent
30 of his 71 years in the city council. He
sat on numerous boards and commissions,
and perhaps the most solid service he ever
did was to take a lead in having Bendigo
sewered. For years he was secretary, and
for a term a director, of the local branch of
the A.N.A. In his spare time he was head
of an auctioneering firm.
Colonel E. A. le Souef is retiring from the
position of Director of the Perth Zoo. He
helped to lay it out 35 years ago, and ran the
establishment with unfailing zeal, despite
ever-dwindling Government grants. Zoo-
logy is in the Le Souef blood; the father
was director of the Melbourne Zoo in his
day, and two brothers followed the calling.
The Colonel served in Egypt and elsewhere
during the war; among other activities he
was veterinary officer to the 2nd Brigade of
the Ist Anzac Mounted Division. The job
for which he leaves his present one is that
of veterinary adviser to the W.A. Agricul-
tural Bank.
Dame Christina Massey, widow of Maori-
land’s war-time Priminister, who was laid
to rest a few days ago beside her husband in
the impressive mausoleum on Point Halswell,
in Wellington Harbor, was born in Sydney.
Her parents migrated to M.L.. when she was
very young, and took up farming. She mar-
ried W. F. Massey just 50. years ago, long
before he became a figure in politics. She
was a quiet, home-loving woman, but in war-
time she developed into a very capable organ-
iser and leader, and was the moving spirit
in the establishment of the Sydney-street
Soldiers’ Club and other institutions that
are still remembered gratefully by M.L. Dig-
gers. For many years she was president of
the Wellington Plunket Society. Two of her
five sons, J.N. and WAV., are in Parliament,
following in their dad’s footsteps.
Poor Jimmy Scott, the artist, who has died
in London in sore financial straits, was born
in Dunedin (M.L.) ; when the war came he
was a sharer of a studio in Hamilton-street,
Sydney, with some other cheerful Bohemians
of the period. He enlisted in time for Gal-
lipoli ; later on, when the A.I.F. artists’
section was formed, he inhabited the studio
in St. John’s Wood with Longstaff and the
rest. He did well for a time after the war,
but adversity began to fall upon artists. in
England long before the general depression
arrived. A few hours before his death he
learned that his last picture had been
accepted for the Royal Academy show,
though it is doubtful if that honor would
have helped him much.
The most highly-qualified and widely-
travelled geologist the M.L. Government ever
had in its employ was Hartley Ferrar, D.Sc.,
M.A., F.G.S., who died suddenly at Welling-
ton a few days ago. Ferrar was a South
African by birth, was educated in England,
graduating at Cambridge, and first saw M.L.
when he was there with Captain Scott’s first
Antarctic expedition, to which he was
attached as geologist. After that, adventure
he spent ten years in the service of the
Egyptian Government. Then he returned to
M.L., and was just settling down as a master
at Christ’s (College, Christchurch, when the
war broke out, and he went back to Egypt
with the N.Z.E.F. When he came back he
joined the M.L. geological survey branch,
and did such valuable work that the N.Z.
Uni. handed him a doctorate of science.
Oliver Nicholson, who succeeds the octo-
genarian William Watson as chairman of
the Bank of N.Z., is an Auckland lawyer,
senior partner of Nicholson, Gribbon, Roger-
son and Nicholson, and is best known, out-
side the courts and company board-rooms,
as one of the few untitled persons who have
been G.M. of the M.L. Freemasons —the
honor usually goes to the Governor for the
time being, though Dick Seddon had a turn
with the gavel. Nicholson is 68, but doesn’t
look it. He was Mayor of Mount
Eden, the Auckland suburb, for the first 12
years of the borough’s existence, and had
one flutter as a political candidate a quarter
of a century ago, when he nearly ousted
George Fowlds for Grey Lynn. Like his
predecessors in the B.N.Z. chair, Beauchamp
and Elliot, Nicholson is a Government
appointee. Watson represented ordinary
shareholders.
Colonel Mick Bruxner, who has succeeded
to the leadership of the N.S.W. Country
party on the retirement of E. A. Butten-
shaw, is a Clarence River pastoralist, his
family having been long connected with that
countryside. He left for the argument with
Fritz as a lieutenant with the 6th Light
Horse in 1914, and after service on Galli-
poli, where he was seriously wounded, went
with his regiment, to the command of which
he eventually rose, through the Sinai and
MICK BRUXNER, the Country party’s
new leader in N. S. Wales.
Palestine campaigns. In 1918-19, he served
for a time as A.A. and Q.M.G. of the Anzac
Mounted Division, ending the war with the
reputation of being a first-class soldier, with
the Croix de Guerre and D.S.O. as visible
tokens. A most likeable personality, Brux-
ner is a fearless hard-hitter in Parlia-
mentary debate, and one for whom the bit-
terest partisans on the Government benches
have a wholesome respect.
Menzies, K.C., who is among the sitting
members who have been returned unopposed
at the Victorian elections, is the president
of the U.A.P. Although he has been but four
years in Parliament he has already impressed
himself upon both sides of the House as a
vigorous and incisive debater, and his cam-
paigning methods have been marked with the
BOB MENZIES, K.C., who is booked for
office in the next Vic. Ministry. He
was returned unopposed for Nunawad-
ing.
same directness and outspokenness, so much
so that Acting Premier Tunnecliffe has
referred to him as the “head and front of
the National party” in Victoria. It i 3 sig-
nificant that ex-Minister Jones, since he
resigned from the Cabinet out of loyalty to
Hogan, has appeared on the platform in sup-
port of Menzies.
Of the five members returned unopposed to
the Queensland Parliament, Arnold Weinholt
(Independent) is the only non-Laborite. He
sat in the State Assembly before the war
and after it in the Federal Reps. Fassifern
is his electorate, and he is a member of one
of Queensland’s pioneer families. He has
earned fame as a big game-shooter, and as
an Intelligence officer in East Africa during
the war. F. A. Cooper has sat in the
Assembly for Bremer since 1915. George
Pollock has represented the big pastoral elec-
torate of Gregory for 17 years; he was
Chairman of Committees and Deputy
Speaker from 1924 to 1929. Johnny Mullan,
now member for the new electorate of
Carpentaria, is a voluble little Irishman who
began his Australian career as a postal
official. With intervals he has sat in the
Assembly since 1908; he had a spell in the
Senate from 1913 to 1917. Though un-
learned in the law he was once State Attor-
ney-General. F. W. Bulcock is a Victorian,
and has held the Barcoo seat since 1919,
succeeding the late T. J. Ryan. He is a
prominent A.W.U. man.
Morgan Peter Jageurs, who died at Brigh-
ton (Vic.), last week, had been in the fore-
front of every Melbourne movement for Irish
Home Rule from the ’eighties onwards; he
was one of those who saw the fulfilment of
his life’s hopes in the Treaty that De Valera
is anxious to break. Jageurs helped to found
the Celtic Club in Melbourne about 45 years
ago. Well versed in Irish literature and
economics, he spoke and wrote with autho-
rity on both. He inherited from his dad the
monumental-masonry business at Parkville.
One son fell in the war.
“Lex”: The appointment of Adrian Knox
to the High Court produced a Constitutional
revolution. A majority of the first Bench
invariably interpreted the Constitution
“narrowly”; Knox took the “broad” view,
and in a very few years he and some
like-minded colleagues made the Common-
wealth the repository of tremendous powers.
Knox’s heart was in racing rather than in
law, but he had a strong, logical mind, a
gift of expression which made his judgments
models of clarity, and great dignity. Before
ascending the Bench he had been chairman
of the A.J.C. In that position he brooked
no argument once he had delivered an
opinion, and he found the habit of years
hard to get rid of. However, his brusqueness
was all on the surface; those who had
known him longest liked him most, and lie
was always ready to help and encourage
young people. He had a hereditary genius
for business, and this, added to his legal
lore, vast knowledge of the world here
and abroad, and his prestige as an ex-C.J.,
made him one of the most valued company
directors Australia has known.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of Australasia
Writ-
Profits. Dividends. ten Off. Reserves.
Oct., £ £ £ £
1920. . 573,052 13 p.c. = 455,000 3,220 575
Premiums on new shares, £250,000 3 470’575
1921.. 588,389 13 p.c. = 487,500 25,000 3’,546,764
1000" 13 »» 520,000 3,646,869
1923. . 618,509 13 „ „ 520,000 3 74.'; 4^B
' 639 ’ 904 13 >• » 520,000 25.000 3’,830’.332
1920.. 632,555 13 „ „ 520,000 50,000 3,892,887
1926. . 652,621 14 „ „ 560,000 40,000 3,945,508
192/.. 654,060 14 „„ 560,000 50,000 3,989,568
Shave premiums, £600,000 .. 4,589,568
1928.. 675,192 14 p.c. = 595,000 80,000 4,589,760
1929.. 677,183 14 „ ~ 630,000 - - 4,636.943
1930.. 615,084 13 „ „ 585,000 4,667,027
Hidden reserves disclosed, £85,000.. 4,752,027
1931.. 217,536 9 p.e. = 343,500 4,626,063
Outstanding features of the latest accounts,
which cover the period before the change in
outlook following the drop in sterling, are
a spring of £3,445,989 in deposits, mainly
interest-bearing, a reduction of £552,969 in
advances and a growth of £3,469,304 in
liquids. The movements reflect lessened
trade activity, which means lighter earn-
nigs for the banks as well as others.
Turnover in the exchange market was
greatly reduced; whatever gain there
may have been when the rate was
rushed up to £l3O was apparently sent to
inner reserves. Interest on fixed deposits
has been lowered to relieve the pressure there,
but old deposits continue to maturity at
the old rates, so the prompt, cut of 1 p.c.,
more in some cases, in the charge for
advances bit into net earnings, and so' did
the cut in the return on Government secu-
rities.
After providing for bad debts, etc., the
slip in gross profits (£1,215,807) was
£345,869. Exes. (£673,582) were rigid, leav-
ing the net result at 4.8 p.c. on capital. But
£85,000, earmarked for “exchange adjust-
ment in the previous year, was brought
from hiding, and 9 p.c. was distributed. It
was paid in sterling, making it worth 11.4
p.c. to those on the local register. The final
was at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a., equal to 9.9
p.c. in Australian notes at the current rate
of exchange. To pay an S p.c. div. capital
•‘ind visible reserves combined need net only
3.7 p.c. Incidentally, share premiums make
the div. worth little more than half the de-
clared rate on most of the £4,500,000 of
capital.
_The market prices the £lO shares paid to
£s—the other £5 is a contingent liability
callable only in the event of liquidation— at
£lO 10s. Allowing for exchange at the cur-
rent rate, the return at £lO 10s. is 4.6 p.c.
on an 8 p.e. div. basis. Obviously the market
exnecfs a bit better when relaxation of the
political and social tension permits a revi-
val of business activity on the basis of
lower costs.. Chief bone of contention at
the moment is the manner and form in which
the problem should be attacked.
As usual, balance-sheet figures exhibit a
very solid financial structure:—
Liabilities.
1929. 1930. 1931.
Notes . . . . £434,329 £401,137 £333,079
Bills, etc. . . 4,569,795 3,795,375 3,310,327
Deposits .. 34,414,798 34,232,584 37,678,573
Assets.
Liquid assets. . 10,914,862 11,502,509 14,971,813
Advances .. 34,314,960 33,387,347 32,834 378
Bills, etc. . . 3,362,670 2,576,109 2,336,953
Premises .. 278,373 400,257 474,020
The drop in the notes figures reflects
conditions in Maoriland. The sworn
quarterly averages show that the growth
in deposits occurred mainly in the Vic-
torian section of the business; a lot of
capital which took fright in N. S. Wales
fled to the southern State. Bills payable
etc., include something for contingencies.
The cash holding (£8,180,220) was streng-
thened by £2,069,093; Government securi-
ties, etc. (£4,707,407), were increased by
£1,980,417 —-they are largely Federal
Treasury bills, which can be discounted
at the Commonwealth Bank.
When the books closed £36 4s. of every
£lOO of the public’s money was held
liquid. The ratio of cash to deposits was
21.7 p.c. For every pound of its own
money the bank was holding £4 10s.-7d. of
outside funds, about the same as at the
close of accounts in 1927.
Australian Investment Trust, Ltd.
Towards
Bept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
D f" £ £ £
Promoter’s consideration, £13,000
Preliminary exes. .. 17,075 30,075
1929.. 8,346 5 p.e. = 3776 4570 25,505
Loss.
1930.. 5,143 Nil 30,648
1931.. 45,688 Nil 76,336
In this class of business earnings depend
upon returns from investments, underwriting,
etc., and upon the profitable exchange of
securities. It is not surprising, therefore,
that this Sydney co., which began trading in
September, 1928, has met with trouble in a
market which quickly became full of pitfalls.
At the end of September, 1929, 310,000 £1
shares were issued and paid to £109.223. The
promoter, Phoenix Investment Co., took
10,000 fully-paids and £3OOO cash ; other pre-
liminaries made off with £17,075. The bal-
ance of the capital and £57,032 of outside
money besides was invested mostly in shares,
etc., which stood in the books at £205,541.
After allowing for loss on investments, a
profit of £8346 was claimed, and a 5 p.c.
div. was paid. Then the market broke, and
a loss of £5143 was shown for the 12 months
to Sept. 30, 1930. Meanwhile £54.313 of
fresh capital was gathered, a further £73.280
was tacked on to the debt, and £127.456 was
added to the book value of securities, rais-
ing the entry to £322.997. This was £78,436
in excess of the figure the auditors put upon
the item. The contents of the investment
portfolio have not been disclosed, but amongst
the ventures underwritten or promoted were
Strand and Pitt Street Properties, Australian
Benzol and Coal Distillation and Bond’s
Industries; interests w’ere also acquired in
other concerns which were not all successful.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts the board decided to write
off some of _ the investments as valueless.
The amount involved was not disclosed; but
it was mainly responsible for the year’s
declared loss of £45.688. The net shrinkage
in the book value of securities was £56.48(1.
Apparently there were some sales, which,
together with £SI9O of new share capital
enabled £19,583 to be knocked off the amount
coming to sundry creditors, as.this compari-
son of balance-sheet figures shows: —
1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. .. £169,223 0223,536 £231,726
Overdraft .. .. 56,972 63,145 63,504
Creditors .. ~ 1,059 68,166 48,583
Investments, etc. .. 205,541 322,997 266,517
Fittings .. 287 232 116
Cash, etc 2,566 1,196. 907
But too much notice need not be taken of
those figures. The managing director’s valu-
ation of the securities was £60,874 short of
the book entry at Sept. 30 last, despite the
writing off. Moreover, this valuation was
qualified by the auditors’ statement that
"Fuller remarks on investments, advances
and other items are contained in our joint
report. Subject to the exceptions named
therein, we are of opinion that the balance-
sheet is properly drawn up.” In addition
to holding specific securities, the bank has a
floating charge over the whole of the co.’s
assets. Also, there were contingent liabili-
ties in respect of guarantees, calls on shares
in other cos., etc., totalling £61.081, of which
£25,564 is said to be secured or partly
secured by collateral.
The future bristles with difficulties for the
co. The only thing that seems certain is a
heavy writing off of capital. Leaving
contingent liabilities and £78,074 of nine ,
• and.uncalled capital out of the reckoning, but
taking, securities at the managing director’s
valuation, the net tangible cover for every
pound of paid capital was Ss. 2d. when the
books closed, The scrip is not listed.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1922.. 31,822,174 P-c.= 17,500 494 76464
Alterations account disappears.. 2,066 78.530
1923.. 48,104 271 p.c.= 27,500 455 20,149 98,679
Dropped into reserves .. .. 5,317 103,996
Profit on sale of freehold .. 27,355 131,351
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO .. 31,351
1924.. 50,327- 15 p.c.= 30,000 447 19,880 51,231
1925.. 49,634 15 „ „ 30,000 524 19,110 70,341
Prefs. Olds.
9 p.e. 7$ p.c.
1926.. 28,048 4500 15,000 583 7,965 78 300
1927.. 21,117 9000 15,000 623 74,800
10 p.c.
1928.. 43,832 9000 20,000 633 14,199 88,999
124 P.c.
1929.. 36,984 9000 25,000 770 2,214 91,213
1930.. 47,445 9000 25,000 782 12,663 103,876
1931.. 3,406 9000 Nil ... . 731 97,551
5 p.c.-
1932.. 11,168 9000 10,000 683 89,036
The improvement of £7762 in last year’s net
earnings is an encouraging response to the
management’s efforts to' readjust the business
to altered trading conditions. Exchange and
the tariff turned attention to local manufac-
ture, while the fall in prices, lighter pay-
bags and the spread of unemployment reduced
turnover, and forced a closer study of family
budgets and price ranges. The' downward
swing of prices, however, lost its momentum
about half-way through the term, and trade
has since shown slight but steady improve-
ment. Savings followed an overhaul of the
organisation, and apparently the drop in
rentals was more or less offset by the
cut in interest on the mortgage. Still,
after allowing for the pref. div. there was
enough to show but 1 p.c. on the £200,000 of
ord. capital; yet 5 p.c. was paid, reserves
being tapped for £8515 for the purpose. The
co. may have done a bit better than the
accounts claimed, but there is nothing to
show it. Stocks, however, seem to be con-
servatively valued; they appear at not much
more than half the figure of three years ago,
and are lower than at any time in the last
dozen years. Still, earnings need to further
improve if 5 p.c. is to be maintained. The
future is obscured by political developments.
The co. is a cash trader and has enough
ready money to buy to advantage, as this
comparison of balance-sheet figures shows:—
1920. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £70,00'0 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 36,100 138,715 139,391 134,018
Property, etc... 40,1.99 386,240 385,086 385,086
Plant, etc. .. 4,714 5,757 5,306 4,830
Shares in other cos. 5,767 5,804
Stock.. .. 98,819 122,819 103,168 80,652
Book debts .. 5,054 9,904 6,075 4,590
Cash, etc. .. 20,465 33,872 35,040 55,590
There was only £5OlB coming to sundry
creditors when the books last closed; the
mortgage (£129,000 1 was unchanged. The
reduction of £22,516 in the stocks item is
reflected in a spring of £20,550 in the cash
holding, etc. —the etcetera is prepayments,
£2911.
For many years the co., which deals in
men’s wear, had nothing invested in bricks
and mortar; it was therefore able to get
along with a small capital (£70,000) and
pay handsome divs. (an average of 18-J p.c.
for the five years to the close of accounts in
1925). Then, to finance the purchase of the
freehold at the corner of Bourke and Eliza-
beth streets and the erection of a new 11-
storeyed building thereon, shareholders pur
up £lOO,OOO in 9 p.c. cum. prefs. and £129.000
was raised on mortgage. Meanwhile, £lOO,OOO
of bonus scrip was scattered, raising paid
capital to £300.000. Construction work inter-
fered with takings for a while, but the figures
responded as space became available, and
l-i p.c. was paid for each of the two years
to the. dose of accounts in 1930. But the
conditions which made those results possible
have gone, and are not likely to return.
On the market the ords. are priced at
17s. The return at that figure is 5.9 p.c. on
. a 5 p.c. div. basis. At 225. the 9 p.c. cum.
prefs., which eujoy priority as to capital,
return 8.2 p.c. The book value of the net
tangible cover is £3 17s. 10d., prefs.; 28s.
lid., ords.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd. (Sydney)
f Dividends To Re- De-
Dec . Profit Pref. Old. Total, serves, ficit.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 10,"fill S p.e. 15 p.e. 9650 1 s <m
Staff bonus .. ..£lOOO )
1922.. 0,085 8 p.e. 8 p.e. (5140 859
Reserves.
1923.. 13,237 8 „ 10 „ 8910 1 3562 2 ,703
Staff bonus .. .. 15 765 ]
Property reserve, £17,641.. .. 20,344
1924.. 13,686 8 p.e. 10 p.e. 9160 1 3526 23 870
Staff bonus, .. ..£lOOO 1
1925.. 20.789 8 p.e. 10 p.e. 9610 1 092033792
Staff bonus .. ..£1250 )
1926.. 18,935 8 p.e. 10 p.e. 11,563 t (510030914
Staff bonus .. ..£1250 ) 6
1927.. 12,247 8 p.e. 10 p.e. 13,459 38,702
1928.. 10,262 8 „ 8 „ 11,472 37,492
Trade-marks, etc., £55 . . • ■ 37,437
1929.. 8,436 8 p.e. Nil 3,200 5236 42,673
Trade-marks, etc., £lO .. 42,663
1930.. 4,524 Nil Nil - 4524 47,187
Written off investments, etc., £10,262.. 36,925
Doss.
1931.. 2,091 Nil Nil 34,834
Deficit.
Transferred to assets revaluation
reserve, £56,486 .. . . .. 21,652
Earnings reached their peak in 1925, the
year following the one in which the Federal
Government granted the industry an export
bounty of 4s. per gallon. Later the figure
dropped to Is.; it was lifted to Is. 9d. for
five years from March 13, 1930. Thus pro-
duction lias continued well in excess of local
consumption, which was fairly steady at less
than a gallon per head of population until
last year, when there was a sharp contrac-
tion.' The price for grapes to the grower is
fixed by the Government, which also in-
creased the duty on fortifying spirit by 100
p.e. about two years ago. Thus costs have
remained stubborn; the London market be-
came flooded with cheap Continental wines,
and it. has been difficult to squeeze any profit
at all out of the export trade, while stocks
accumulated and broke down prices locally.
Hence the collapse of profits and the absence
of divs., as shown in the table.
Last year gross earnings (£30,385) fell
awmy £12,562. Exes. (£32,541, including the
previous year’s tax bill for £2384) were got
back £6356. But it was not enough ; after
allowing for minor adjustments, a loss of
£2OOl showed up, and both lots of share-
holders went hungry again. Until conditions
in N. S. Wales become more settled, it is
doubtful to what extent, if any, improve-
ment in local trade need be looked for. The
most encouraging feature at the moment is
a better demand for Australian wines in
London, thanks largely to the work of the
Export Control Board.
After taking stocks into account at £15,137
below the 1930 figure, outside liab’lities
exceeded more or less liquids, excluding
shares in other , cos., by £7385 at the end
of Dec., a slip of £3677 during the 12
months:—•
1922. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital. . £80,500 £143,398 £143,398 £143,398
Deposits . . 12,820 29,198 25,803 20,547
Mortgages, etc. 19,687 19,374 19,154
Overdraft . . 24,855 24,543 34,264 32,962
Other liabilities 15,631 22,660 9,183 11,001
Properties, plant,
etc. .. 45,773 162,309 170,031 171,716
Book debts . . 28,449 49,459 33,868 40,134
Stocks . . 65,469 50,311 48,960 33,823
Cash, etc. . . 551 2,781 2,188 2,322
Shares in other
cos. .. 18,900 18,900 18,900
Much of the debt was incurred to finance
the purchase of licensed premises, mainly in
1924. Also, the board had created a reserve
of £26,486 against the bonus value of the
licenses. This and more has disappeared
with the change in trading conditions and
the sharp fall in property values. So all
available reserves at Dec. 31 (£56,486) were
tossed into an assets realisation account for
the purpose of adjusting book figures when
the board considers that values, etc., have
steadied sufficiently.
At next balance there will be £9OOO coming
to the profs., which are now offered at 10s.
They are 8 p.e. cumulative, with priority as
to capital; the backing is 60s. lOd. in'net
tangibles, excluding specific reserves. Simi-
lar cover for the more speculative ords. is
15s. lOd.; they seldom appear on ’.Change.
Bon Marche, Ltd. (Sydney)
r~ Dividends. Towards
Net Pref. Re-
Profit. 7i p.e. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ £, £ £, 4?
1922.. 14,565 6000 71 p.e. = 7500 1,065 53,675
1923.. 18,606 6000 7* ~ „ 7500 5,106 48,569
1924.. 23,513 6000 71 „ „ 7500 10.013 38,550
1925.. -23,661 6000 7J „ „ 7500 10,161 28,395
1926.. 23,686 6000 7i „ „ 7500 10,186 18,209
1927.. 23,756 6000 71 „ „ 7500 10,256 7,953
Reserves.
Assets written up, £25,000 .. 17,047
1928.. 22,352 6540 8 p.e. = 8000 7,812 24,859
1929.. 15,650 7500 8 „ „ 8000 150 25,009
1930.. 11,140 7500 6 „ „ 6000 22,649
Loss.
1931.. 9,858 3750* Nil 9,041
1932.. 7,913 Nil Nil 1,128
*Half-year’s div.
Considering the nature of the business—
the co. is a drapery offshoot of Marcus Clark,
and it trades largely on a t.-p. basis—last
year’s loss of £7913 w r as not so discouraging
as it might have been. Still, the figure, which
was written after an unspecified amount
had been allowed on bad debts, is only an
estimate, the accuracy or otherwise of which
depends mainly upon whether the secured
and other debtors’ balances turn out to he
worth their book value (£109,140 at the
close of last accounts, up £5832 during the
twelvemonth). Because of unemployment a
large number of the co.’s customers were
unable to pay their accounts, the chairman
says; and the N. S. Wales Moratorium Act
has added to the uncertainty by extending
for two years payment of practically all
secured accounts.' Also political develop-
ments, including threatened legislation, are
darkening the outlook and curbing business
activity in N. S. Wales. Still, when condi-
tions permit, credit buying can he expected
to revive, though it is unlikely that it
will be practised on the old scale.
After allowing for the pref. div., profits
averaged 15.3 p.e. on ord. capital for the
five years to the close of accounts in 1929.
Meanwhile, the freehold was bought and the
premises were extended. To finance the out-
lay and carry more book debts £60,000 was
raised on ’ mortgage and £20.000 of fresh
pref. money was got in, making paid capi-
tal £200.000, one-half prefs. and the other
ords. The owls., inehvjing 60,000 for good-
will, not treated as an asset herein, are held
by the parent. Incidentally, the book value
of the freehold was written up £25,000, being
the amount by which the valuation exceeded
the purchase price, and paper reserves bene-
fited.
The position as the published accounts
disclose it is as follows :
„ . 1921. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £lBO,OOO £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities .. 13,515 82,098 08,986 74,989
Freehold .. 124,205 124,198 123,651
Plant, etc. .. 3,449 18,144 17,200 16,238
Stock .. 34,618 40,856 29,170 25,173
Book debts .. 99,519 126,350 103,308 109,140
Investments, cash,
etc. . . 11,088 9,943 9,150 6,915
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£06,239, including stocks) slipped £6403
last year. The mortgage (now £56,000) was
reduced by £2OOO, but £BOO3 was tacked on
to the amount coming to sundry creditors
(£18,080).
The prefs., which carry a cumulative 74
p.c. and have priority as to capital, were
covered by net tangibles with a book value
of 40s. 2d. The div. was' 18 months in
arrears at the end of January.
Luke Muras, Ltd. (Sydney)
Towards
T . Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
21,856
1925.. 2239 Nil 2239 19,617
1C26.. 6309 Nil 6309 13,30 S
Pref. 8 p.c. Old.
1927.. 7405 5286, 8 p.c. = 4600 15,789
Reserves disclosed, £948 .. .. 14,841
1928.. 9658 1344 8 p.c. =: 4600 3714 11,127
1929.. 6972 1343 8 „ „ 4600 1029 10,098
Loss.
1930.. 332 Nil 10,430
1931.. 728 Nil 11,158
Just before the present co. took it over in
1923 for £63,549, including £19,000 for good-
will, Luke Muras’s structural steel and en-
gineering business paid a couple of 20 p.c.
divs. Then a rush of foreign competition,
followed by falling prices and mounting
costs, spoiled financial results, and it was
not until the tariff brought the co. relief
about five years ago that shareholders got
into the picture again. Meanwhile 35.000
S p.c. cum. par prefs. were offered, of which
16,792 were taken.
For the three years to the close of
accounts in 1929 an all-round 8 p.c.
was paid. Then came tin; timber strike
and the slump; hence losses instead
of profits have shown up, and share-
holders have gone hungry for the last two
years. Considering the difficulties, the co.
was fortunate to pull through with a loss of
only £728 last year. But it has no fat;
£11,158 of the share capital was unrepre-
sented by tangibles in the books when thev
last closed.
During the year the co. went a little
further into debt:—
1925. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital . . £74,305 £74,292 £74,292 £74,292
Overdraft . . 13,436 18,591 16,235 19,238
Creditors . . 20,090 12,814 1,501 1,948
Freehold and build-
ings . . . . 20,256 25,516 25,323 25,109
Plant . . .. 18,332 21,757 20,329 19,049
Furniture .. .. 506 726 689 676
Debtors !!! } 60 ’ 044 38 > 787 41 > 189
Cash, etc 644 279 176
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£20,179) was £llOl lighter than at the
close of accounts in 1930.
The public is interested only in the prefs..
which call for £1344 p.a. Everything
depends upon the extent to which the plant,
claimed to be in first-class condition, can
be kept employed. The prefs, are covered
by net tangibles with a book value of £3
15s. 2d., of which 245. is surplus liquids
and the balance plant, etc.
Port Swettenham Rubber
Net / Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit, Pref. Ord. Amt. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 1,99 S 8 p.c. Nil = 4,056 5609
1924.. 2,246 8 „ Nil „ 2,120 126 5735
1925.. 5,437 8 „ 6 p.c. „ 5,570 5602
1926.. 19,854 22i „ 221 „ „ 18,890 964 6556
1927.. 7,595 8 „ 8 „ „ 7,200 395 6951
1928.. 2,945 8 „ Nil „ 3,080 6816
1929.. 4,538 8 „ 5 p.c. „ 5,955 5399
1930.. 133 4 „ Nil „ 1,540 3992
Loss.
1931.. 1,325 Nil Nil „ 2667
Few commodities have had a more
chequered market than rubber, and for none
other is the outlook more glum at the moment.
This 21-year-old Melbourne-controlled con-
cern, with plantations in the F.M.S., was
launched on the crest of a boom. It sold
its first crop for 4s. 9d. a pound, paid a
5 p.c. div., followed by another of 10 p.c.
Then, after arguments with the Courts and
a cyclone, another plantation (the Aus-
tralasia) was bought, and when outlay on
development ceased, the market collapsed.
Hence the ords. had a long dry spell until
the Stevenson scheme pushed prices beyond
their economic limit.
What happened during the decade to the
close of last accounts the following table
shows: —
Rubber Rubber
June Yield Av. Price June Yield. Av. Price
30, lb. Realised. 30, lb. Realised.
1922.. 177,161 7.5 d. 1927.. 269,924 17.8 d.
1923.. 150,000 1928.. 214,077 14 2d.
1924.. 141,311 12.15 d. 1929.. 385,666 8 92d
1925.. 149,656 18.67 d. 1930.. 340,300 6 81d
1926.. 219,032 30-.5d. 1931.. 471,976 2.97 d.
Last year’s all-in cost (3.76 d.) was more
than halved, due largely to the spring in
production. But it was .79d. more than the
price realised; thus a loss of £1325 showed
up, and both lots of shareholders went
hungry. For the current term the man-
agers figure the crop at 492,0001 b., and
the all-in cost at 3,18 d. But the London
price for best plantation was no more than
Ifd. per pound a couple of weeks ago—if
is the lowest figure on record.
Rapid increase in production, following
the collapse of the Stevenson scheme, and a
sharp contraction in demand, due to dul-
ness in the motor trade, have resulted in
an accumulation of stocks that has broken
down the market. At the moment world
stocks of rubber are estimated at about
»><)0,000 tons, or over. 12 months’ supply.
Dutch interests have failed to agree to a
British plan to restrict output, because
(Continual on page 16.)


£nTsn*~i nr®
m
/:
DIB
y
<7
ii
(2
KiV:
mm
I SBti*
;w>“- w.
“£SS C\
f*
mil
ii
fr
£
■
IS;
THREE
THREES
ARE
NINE
I
or
j.
WHEN you’ve reached
the top you can go
no higher. Keep
going till you reach Three-
Threes. That Ardath blend,
that nine-for-sixpence price,
those cork and plain tips, are
the pinnacle of popular cigar-
ette achievement and satis-
faction. And the way there
is neither long nor hard.
Simply slip into the nearest
tobacconist’s and say ''Three-
Threes/'
vniEgMras
333
3218
Also Flat Fifties, Flat Hundreds and
Round Airtight Fifties.
9 for 6?
IBfor V-
-27for Ke
CORK ORIfPL A I
TIPS


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * $ $
Ideas. -—Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes. —Advt.
A- M • P
A husband should plan for his family’s
happy future, and be very cheerful about it
wilil
*
r^4/’
vs-
*r>'
7^
/
u
1
fe.
■ w!K
Should you die, would your
family’s comfort be assured I
THIS is a cheerful subject for a man to consider— not, as some people
imagine, a dismal one.
The man who has made provision through assurance for the education
of his children, and the reasonable comfort of his family, in the event
of his death, soon develops a cheery outlook. He has no anxieties, no
worries. He has earned the right to laugh at the world.
Some men put off making this provision, not because they are indifferent
to their family’s welfare, but because they are—well —mentally lazy.
They know it ought to be done, but they put off doing it.
You, Sir, who read this advertisement; where do you stand? Are you
happy and cheerful about the future? Would your family be secure
in the event of your death? Then, if only for your own peace of mind,
make them secure! Use this coupon to find how little it costs to be able
to look the world in the eye and not be afraid!
The members of the A.M.P. have accumulated assets worth £86,600,000.
They have already been allotted bonuses to the value of £54,500,000.
The Society has just concluded another wonderful year. Join it!
LEARN HOW LITTLE IT WILL COST
To the
Australian Mutual Provident Society,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
/ am years of age, married, with children.
Give me an estimate of what it Would cost to make the provision for
my family that you here suggest.
Name
Address
A* M* P
native producers cannot be brought into the
scheme. Appearances are that the only re-
striction will be the forced one of allowing
some of the plantations to become jungle
again. The native’s costs are next to noth-
ing, and the lower the price the harder he
taps; he was mainly responsible for the
wreck of the Stevenson plan.
Port Swettenham’s paid capital is £96,000
in 38,500 8 p.c. cum. par. prefs. and 57,500
ords. At June 30 last there was £698 coming
to sundry creditors. More or less liquids
totalled £3263. The plantations figured at
£90,790; plant, etc., £5312.
When the British Government placed the
10 p.c. duty on lead of non-Empire origin,
Broken Hill interests withdrew from the lead
pool then in operation in Great Britain.
Proposals arc now on foot to form a new
all-British pool.
Broken Hill South is well satisfied with
the new electric winders and fireproof coarse-
crushing equipment recently installed at No.
7 shaft. One of the winders handles the five-
ton ore-skips, and the other transports the
men in double-decker cages, carrying 16 per
deck. The capacity of the winders (265 tons
per hour) enables mill requirements to be
obtained, in one shift. In the coarse-crush-
ing section a 200-ton crude-ore .bin feeds a
large jaw crusher, which delivers 6in. rock
to a gyratory breaker, where the feed is
further reduced to 2in. mesh, and thence
transported by belt conveyor to the mill.
A new all-steel head-frame, 105 ft. high and
30ft. wide at the base, has been erected.
The ore is automatically tipped from the
skips, 57ft. above the ground. These new
installations are expected to considerably
reduce costs.
❖ * *
Electrolytic Zinc recently announced that,
in accordance with the international agree-
ment, the output of zinc was to be curtailed.
For the four weeks to Dec. 16 the co.’s output
was 4138 tons; it was 4000 tons for the four
weeks to April 6. The co. markets its
metal as de-graded zinc; no' difficulty has
been met in disposing of the whole output,
and rigid economies in all sections of the
business have cut costs to the bone. It is
doubtful whether there is a n»re efficient
electrolytic zinc plant in the world. The
price of the metal is the trouble.
“Cuzinjan” : Because of the difficulties in-
volved, treatment of mixed carbonate and
sulphide lead ores at Mt. Isa has attracted
attention overseas. The original idea was
to deal with each type separately, but ex-
periments showed that higher recoveries
could be obtained and costs reduced by
mixing the ores in the proportion of two
tons of carbonate to one ton of sulphide.
The oxidised stuff comes from the open-cut
gloryholes of the Black Star lode, and the
sulphides from the stopes of the Rio Grande.
In the crushing great care is taken to mix
both ores thoroughly. In the mill the gravity
tables recover half of the 13 p.c. lead in the
ore; the tailing is then reground and, after
conditioning with soda ash, lead sulphide is
removed by flotation. After further con-
ditioning, the lead carbonate is floated. No
attempt is made to recover zinc, and the
ores are selectively mined to give a low
content of this metal.
“Old Warden”: The Queensland Quick-
silver Development mine near Kilkivan (Q.)
(B. 20/4/’32) has had many predecessors.
The first discovery of mercurial ore in that
district was made by a shepherd named God-
frey in 1572. After an Austrian firm had
given the proposition a look-over, a syndi-
cate known as the from California,
prospected the country ; a plant was erected
and production continued for some years. In
the early eighties of last century the Duke
of Manchester, then in Australia, took over
the Hester and Eldred leases, and the
Queensland Quicksilver Estates Co. was
formed in London to work them. There was
a roaring demand for leases and building
land, and a lot of money was spent. How-
ever, output of mercury was under a dozen
bottles, interest flagged and the show closed
down. The present co., whose plant was
opened by Minister for Mines Atherton the
other day, is no relation to its predecessors ;
its prospects are officially considered excel-
lent.
Golden Surprise, North Arm (Q.), cleaned
up 5500 z. of gold from 200 tons in its first
crushing. The co. is driving a tunnel to test
the downward continuation of the reef out-
cropping above. The 50ft. level of No. 1
shaft is being driven on a lode 18in. wide.
Seventeen men are employed. Prospectors
are very active in the North Arm district.
On the Golden Wonder leases a search is
being made for the source of the rich
alluvial. Three reefs have so far been
located, one of which is the Coolum; it is
being tested by the North Arm co. On lease
1609 costeening is showing good results.
A rich antimony lode has been located at
Lyndhurst in the Georgetown district
(N.Q.). The width is 12ft., and the outcrop
strong and persistent. Assays of 65.3 p.c.
antimony and 0.1 p.c. arsenic have been
obtained. A contract has been accepted for
the sale of 20 tons of picked ore per month.
❖ * *
For the three months to the end of March
Mount Morgan tributors sent to the Elec-
trolytic Refining and Smelting Co., Port
Kembla, 60 tons of picked ore containing
lOOoz. of gold and 2 tons of copper. The
all-in return was £8 per ton.
New Guinea Goldfield’s mill will commence
crushing early in July, treating first the
ore from the lower area, where reserves
sufficient to keep the mill running for three
years have been proved. The company esti-
mates a profit of at least £lOO,OOO p.a. from
the mine, and £70,000 from the alluvial
areas, which until recently were worked ou
tribute. The paid-up capital is £4,451,057.
* * *
Kalgoorlie will shortly celebrate its 39th
birthday, and the Ivanhoe, the first mine
located on tin; Boulder belt, or the spot
where Paddy Hannan specked his first slug
is suggested as a suitable place for a jam-
boree. The first co. formed to work the
Ivanhoe was a Melbourne concern with a
capital of £50,000. In 1897 it sold out to
the Ivanhoe Gold Corporation, which was
floated with £1,000,000 capital by Whittaker
Wrights London and Globe Corporator Th"
price paid for the property was £960,000, of
which £250,000 was in shares and £710,000
ie S°ld production was nearly
£10,000,000 down to 1924; but all the rich-
est ore had been extracted. The directors
decided that it wasn’t worth installing new
plant to treat the remaining low-grade
reserves, so the co. linked up with the Lake
' lew and Star.
* $ * $
Wiluna shares have soared lately. The
rise is due mainly to the discovery of the
new western ore body (No. 2 lode) and the
improved appearance of the East (main)
lode at depth. No. 2 West lode has been
.pierced at 290 ft., 450 ft., 625 ft. and 800 ft.
levels. Values range from 265. 4d. to 745.,
and widths from 2ft. to 18ft. The indicated
length is over 1000 ft. The fears which arose
when poor developments were reported on
the east lode at 625 ft. and SOOft. levels have,
according to consulting-engineer Vail, been
unwarranted. The ore body, he says, has
been proved to pitch south, and has not
decreased in width or value at depth. Ore
reserves are now being increased at the rate
of about 65,000 tons a month.
* * * *
Future of Boulder Perseverance looks
encouraging, provided no serious trouble
is met with in connection with the new
treatment method. There is a lot of 6dwt.
to Bdwt. ore in sight. The addition of
a limited quantity of high-grade stuff
should mean much so far as profits
are concerned,_ and there are indications of
better values in a fairly long stope in the
Central and West Boulder lease on which the
Perseverance Co. has a tribute. The co.’s
10 p.c. notes are quoted at a high premium
in London.
❖ ❖ £
North Kalgurli’s scrip rose sharply in
the market on a report that a big Aust. co.,
presumably B. H. Prop, or South Ivalgurli
had made an offer. The South could do with
h second and more lasting string to its bow.
while the inclusion of the North in the
group of adjoining leases over which B. 11.
Prop, has an option would perhaps make a
fair-sized mine.
Eureka, at Lake Austin near Cue (W.A.),
is reckoned the richest privately-owned gold
show in the West. It lay abandoned for
years; then a prospector, following a leader
down to water level, extracted £12,000 worth
of the metal in about 12 months. He sold the
claim to the present owners in 1930, and
they have since got out £20,000 worth.
Appearances in the bottom workings are
what the eastles are built on.
Kimberley, the scene of Westralia’s -first
but disappointing gold rush, is now almost
defunct. Only a few fossickers are left.
The shoots arc small, and values are liable
to cut out without warning. A little allu-
vial has lately been worked on one part of
the field, but returns have been poor.
* * * *
A Perth syndicate is talking about testing
the Nullagine gold-bearing banket beds.
These are of enormous extent; they have
not thus far been probed sufficiently to
enable any sound opinion to be formed as to
their value.
* * * $
A hullabaloo lias been raised in the West
over the locking up of gold-bearing areas and
mines, most of them beyond the means of the
poor man to open up. Claude de Bernales
and Herman Mandelstam were granted big
reservations. The Mines Department view is
that their chances of success are better than
those of anyone else it knows of, so it sees
no reas,. i why it should interfere.
* # * *
The appeal by Kalgoorlie tributors
against the judgment of the Westralian Full
Court in the matter of the exchange pre-
mium on gold will probably be heard by the
Privy Council in June or July. The tribu-
tors claim the right to participation on a
50-50 basis.
❖ # ❖ 4c
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What are the prospects of the Fores-
try Pulp and Paper Co., of Geelong? (2)
Can the acre-lots he transferred from the
holder to someone else? —96o3.
(1) See B. 24/9/’3O. The business was
reorganised some time ago and put on a
better footing, but the outlook for timber
generally is very doubtful. Even in
Canada, which supplies a large portion of
the world’s newsprint requirements, the
wood-pulp industry is having a thin time at
the moment. (2) Section 21 of the bond-
holder’s agreement provides that the lots
may be resold, provided 20 p.c. of the net
profits (if any) on the transaction are
handed to the co. Write to the co. for a
form of transfer.
(1) Best shallow alluvial goldfield in
N.S.W.? (2) Ditto, Queensland? (3) Any
literature on subject likely to he useful?
(4) Are TJralla, Hill grove and Dalmorton
worth trying? —9ss6.
(1) Fields where the chances of obtain-
ing small remuneration are about equal are:
Bathurst-Sofala. Mudgee-GulgOng, Braid-
wood-Araluen, Trunkey-Tuena. (2) Inquire
Department of Mines, Brisbane. (3)
“Guide-book for the Use of Prospectors in
N.5.W.,” obtainable from Department of
Mines, Sydney. Price 25.; postage 2d. (4)
Uralla and Hillgrove are worth attention.
During 1931 the former returned 9390 z. gold
(658 alluvial) and the latter S2loz. (279
alluvial).
(1) What black sand on Queensland
beaches is auriferous? (2) Can the gold be
recovered with a t dish , or must special
methods be applied? (3) What should sand
assay to be payable? Roughly, how many
cubic feet of wet sand to a ion? (4) /.<;
auriferous black sand an indication that
there is reef gold in the neighborhood? If
not whence comes the g01d? —9309.
(1) Where they have been worked in
Queensland, black beach sands occur in
layers on the beach. (2) Concentrating
methods have been applied without the use
of mercury. (3) All depends on costs.
Assays of ldwt. 19gr. per ton have been
obtained from auriferous portions of beaches,
but owing to the preponderance of non-
auriferous portion the sands have not been
found commercially workable by the methods
applied so far. About 19 cubic feet to the
ton (4) Not necessarily. The source has
not been determined.
TT ith a water wheel 16 feet in diameter,
what should the ratio he between the pulley
wheels to drive cam shaft 45 rev. per minute?
It is desired to give the 10 head of 750 1 b
stamps a drop of 90 per min.. —9460.
If the water wheel is overshot it should
make approximately eight revolutions per
minute. If the battery is driven direct from
the shaft attached to the water wheel the
two pulleys should have a ratio of 41 to 1.
i J? 1 , f be advisable to have a counter
shaft betwen the water wheel and the cam
shaft. The diameter of the pulleys required
then would be 6ft. to 2ft., and sft. to 3ft.
Llie ott. pulley is somewhat small for driv-
ing a 10-head battery; gear wheels would be
preferable.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Miser: (1) For permanent holding, yes. (2) Thus
far the board’s policy has been to issue fresh scrip
rather than call the remaining £3. It is most
unlikely that fresh share capital will be required in
the near future. Still, the liability is there, and
it should not be ignored. (3) As soon as published.
It is due next month.... Fitzroy: It’s a speculation.
What conditions in the timber business will be 10
years hence we cannot say. Whether to sell now
or hold in the hope of gain in the future is a
question you will have to decide for yourself....
T.M.: (1) Drastic reconstruction seems inevitable.
Creditors dominate the position; there was £617,200
coming to them at June 30 last. How prefs. are
likely to fare depends largely upon what creditors
decide to do. (2) Inscribed stock and consols are
popular because they are free of State taxes....
C.G.M.: Prefs. worth considering are British Tobacco.
Australian Glass, G. J. Coles, Morris Hedstrom,
Toohey’s Standard Securities M.E.S.: Both sound
stocks, British Tobacco for preference. In the insur-
ance group, N.Z., S. British, Queensland and United
are worth considering... .N.L.L.: It’s a speculation.
Whether to take a small profit now or hold in hope
of more in the future is a question for you to
decide.


WM
m
I
m
I
i
r
Cabinet Design Registered- N? 9539.
<m iVciLujes
are better
LUXE console
.... as shown,
luxuriously finished
blackwood and
walnut.
Electric 41 - £36-10-0
Electric 301 £2B-10-0
Battery-operated 45
£34-10-0
Other models 18gns. to
£5O-10-0
l^ealintf
GOLDEN VOICED RADIO
Ls dlffererit
ORDINARY radio will never
satisfy you.
See and hear the difference in Healing
golden-voiced Radio before you buy.
Your local dealer will demonstrate.
For catalogues and information write to .... *
A. G. HEALING, LTD.,
Manufacturers & Master Distributors
(Wholesale Only)
MELBOURNE: 167-173 Franklin Street, C.l.
ADELAIDE: Cr. Pirie and Pulteney Streets.
SYDNEY: 1 64-1 70 Goulburn Street.
Queensland Dealers write to —
R. J. ROSE, C/o T. W. MOSS & CO.,
I 2 1 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC.
The Timber Industry
Dear Bulletin, —Re the comments (B.
0/4/’32) on the ill-health of the Westralian
timber industry. Beyond question high
wages are largely responsible, but there is
another reason, which also applies to the
low state of the timber trade in N. S.
Wales. Westralia shipped huge quantities
of jarrah overseas, especially to Asia. So
did N. S. Wales. In pre-war days freight
could be secured from Sydney to India at
225. 6d. for 50 cubic feet; sleepers and sawn
timber went there whole shiploads at a time,
the cos. joyously accepting timber at a low
rate, as it suited them well in their horse
trade —heavy timber, easily stowed, made
excellent ballast. Came the war, when
freights soared. The last time I asked for
a freight quotation on timber to India the
price was 555. for 40 cubic feet. The shipping-
cos. would still have sought timber freight if
the horse trade had kept up; but motor-cars
settled that. Our sleepers were acknowledged
as superior to' other timbers for railway
work, but they were never absolutely essen-
tial. The price of our hardwood got too
high, and it became a cheaper proposition for
the railways of Asia to use the local wo'ods,
although it necessitated more frequent re-
newals. As regards the export of softwoods
from N. S. Wales, this died because the local
demand for our high-class timbers sent the
Sydney price far beyond a practicable export
price. In 1908 I went to India to' super-
intend the delivery of a cargo of over three
million feet of mixed timbers to the Indian
railways. One item was 200 maple logs.
These were purchased from the late James
McSharry at 15s. per 100 super on ship
Sydney. To-day the same logs could not be
bought under 455. In the case of maple,
increase of wages has not been such a deter-
mining factor in the huge increase o'f price
as the enormous rise in the royalty demanded
by the Government. —Yours etc., Beta.
Are We Poor Salesmen?
Dear Bulletin, —Consider my experience.
I .speak Russian and Spanish, ; but all my
applications to Australian firms for work as
a trade, missioner in South America or
Russia fail even to elicit a reply. In my
opinion Vladivostock would be a wonderful
jumping-off place for Australian goods, for
both the Manchurian and Siberian markets.
From what I hear the Soviet is now anxious
to welcome foreign traders; but the heads
of Australian houses are not interested. Dur-
ing five years spent in Canada.and U.S.A.
I never failed to obtain an interview with
an American business chief or editor. Cer-
tainly they did not encourage loquacity. Aus-
tralian editors will see you, but. most of the
big business men are as unapproachable as
the Grand Llama of Thibet. —Yours etc.,
W. G. L.
Clothes and the Sheep
Dear Bulletin, —Any suggestion of stabi-
lising wool values to give growers a chance
immediately brings a counter-suggestion that
stabilisation will make the price of materials
dearer, thus restricting consumption. Which
simply is rot. The cost of wool in woollen
material is very small. In a seven-guinea
tweed suit the grower’s share is about 6s. 6d.
It takes approximately 71b. greasy merino,
64’s quality, worth now about lid. per
pound, to make a suit length of 3£ yards,
weighing 14oz. per yard. Scouring, carding,
combing, dyeing, spinning, weaving, mend-
ing and finishing, plus the price of the wool,
run to about Bs. per yard and the weight is
reduced to approximately 31b. The ware-
houseman retails it to the tailor at an aver-
age of 12s. 6d. per yard, or 435. 9d. for the
suit length. Piece-work rates under the
Federal award send costs soaring, as follows:
Cost of material .. .. .. ..£239
Measuring and cutting .. .. .. 10 0
Making coat after fittings .. .. ..276
Ditto vest and trousers .. .. .. 15 0
Trimmings, linings, etc. .. .. . . 12 6
Total £6 8 9
This leaves the tailor about £1 for rent, bad
debts, etc. If wool went up 50 per cent.,
it would not add 3s. Gd. to the cost of the
finished article. This is less than 3 p.c.—
Yours etc., Valerin.
North Australian Fish
Dear Bulletin, —Before the war two small
canneries were operating on Pumicestone
Passage (“The Passage” of Vance Palmer's
novel), Moreton Bay. They were privately
owned and turned out the “Diver” brand.
The fish was good and the price _ a shade
cheaper than the imported commodity. The
price paid to the fishermen was lid. per
pound at the factory. The late Labor Gov-
ernment, of course, had to show itself the
friend of the fisherman and the enemy of
the bloated capitalist. It made the whole-
sale marketing of fish in the Brisbane area
a State monopoly. It also opened retail
fish-shops, and promised the fishermen
per pound as a minimum price for fish.
After some years the disillusioned fisher-
men were allowed to form a co-operative
co. to take over the fish marketing, with no
better success. Recently . the marketing of
fish in Brisbane was declared open, as
the prices had not been Id. per pound
clear for mullet. This, in Lent, when fish
supplies are< scarce and the demand is good!
There are, of course, no longer any can-
neries to take any surplus off the market,
or to give a guaranteed price for the glut.
The great stumbling-block to canning fish
by white labor in Australia is the Trades
Hall. Fish have to be processed when caught,
irrespective of hours. If the factory-hands
are allowed to work while there is work for
them to do, though it means exceeding 48
hours or even 60 hours in one week, we
can hope for success. Not otherwise.—Yours
etc., Friar Tuck.
Lottery Shares
Dear Bulletin, —The demand for shilling
shares in “certain” lottery tickets is so
keen that agents are making small fortunes
by buying tickets at ss. 3d. and selling six
and even seven shilling shares in one ticket.
The way is open for the management to open
up a shilling-share department, and the hos-
pitals would be very glad of the extra profit
of two bob a ticket. This would soon wipe
out the shilling-ticket sellers and settle the
question of the legality of the affair.—Yours
etc.. St John
An International Exchange
„ _ ((T urn >, , ix\
q /?/>QO x B JS LETII S’-T oWH tw
3/2/32) How did it come about that
while leading nations of the world are over-
run with unemployed, Russia a few months
ago imported 6000 agricultural experts from
America? Why not open up a trade with
Russia on these lines—Australia to send a
few hundred hall-marked acid-tested Com-
munists to Russia, Russia to send in return
the same number of men who are not
Communists? That ought to suit all parties
—Russia doesn’t want anti-Communists; we
don’t want Communists. The Australians
who have gone to Russia, and on return
have said everything in the garden is lovely,
have never gone back. If these men returned
and took their wives and families with
them, it would look as if they believed what
they say.—Yours, Scrutator.
r, n ... - i /ttcs a \
Every year the California Bank (U.S.A.)
compiles a statement of the deposits of ‘ 150
of the largest American, British, Colonial
and Dominion banks.” Three of the ‘ Big
Fo'ur” with head offices in London still head
the list—Midland, Barclays and Lloyds in
that order; then the Cause National and
the National City, both of New York, with
the Westminster (London) sixth. The first
“Colonial and Dominion” institution in the
table is the Bank of Montreal (13th), with
the Royal Bank off Canada 14th. The Bank
of N. S. Wales is 23rd, with deposits of
302 million dollars; the Midland Bank,
which heads the list, has 1753 millions.
* * * *
“C.H.S.”* Touching this kerosene shale.
From 1879‘t0 1882 I lived in Coonabara-
bran (N.S.W.), 75 miles by road from the
nearest railhead in Gunnedah. Kerosene,
in cased tins, was used for all lighting
purposes, and was sold, retail, at between
six and eight shillings the case (eight
gallons). It was all made from Australian
kerosene shale, and of excellent quality. At
that time there were, so far as I knew,
only a few of the larger towns in the colony
lit by gas. I don’t exactly know what
eight gallons of kerosene would cost to-day
in and near our cities, but I do know that
it is all imported.
* * * *
Persuaded by the Forests Commission, Vic.
Government has decided to provide £4OOO
this year and a similar amount in 1932-33 for
salvaging timber damaged by the recent bush-
fires. By cutting the trees and letting them
lie in the undergrowth till the timber is
needed and saleable it is estimated that
£150,000 worth that would otherwise be lost
will be recovered. Incidentally, this esti-
mate reveals the extent of the mischief done
by the fires, not counting the several lives
, °
’ * :j: * *
“E.K.P.”: One of the most important by-
products of the fishing industry, entirely
neglected in this country, is the extraction
of oil from fish waste-material, heads and
tails, etc. The U.S.A. annually produce
nearly 10,000,000 gallons, but cannot meet
the demand. The oil is employed as shorten-
ing in many bakery products, and to a cer-
tain extent it has replaced linseed oil in
the better paints and varnishes, especially
in heat-resisting paint. _lt emerges from
other processes as lubricating oils, lotion and
ink. The Australian waters contain a fish
wealth equal to, if not richer than, that of
many other countries where the fishing indus-
try, together with its by-products, consti-
tutes a national asset. If private enterprise
will persist in ignoring these opportunities
it is surely the duty of the Government to
take the matter in hand and do some organ-
ising.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Melbourne is suffering from
an epidemic of infectious diseases. The
situation is made worse by the High Cost of
Health, which seems to, be getting higher
instead of lower. A working man recently
got diphtheria in his family, and three
healthy children had to be inoculated to
ward off infection. The injection of the
serum cost 30s. a head. The stuff comes
from the Commonwealth Laboratories at
Royal Park, a suburb of the metropolis.
The institution has worked up a huge busi-
ness and exports serums of all sorts to Maori-
land, New Guinea and even the “Par East.
It would be interesting to know whether it
gets lower prices for its exportations and
makes the loss up on local sales. The old
price for diphtheria vaccine was about Bs.
* * * *
The Melbourne property market isn’t quite
so hopeless as it was; and you can thank
(or blame) two things for it —the flight
from Lang and Sydney, and the repayment
of capital by cos. which don’t see how
Australian conditions will let them use it
profitably. The National Bank has just
sold the major part of the old Colonial
Bank head office in Elizabeth-strect. 30ft.
frontage, for £36,000. The National occu-
pied it as h.q. while its new home was
being built in Collins-street, but has had no
real use for it since.
* * * *
“Kariah”: Port Stephens (N.S.W.) oyster-
farmers are forming a co. for the purpose
of canning their oysters and placing them on
the home and foreign markets. It is no idle
boast when they say their product will be the
best in the world. The raw Australian oyster
is acknowledged as such, and with ordinary
care the processed bivalve should be a winner.
* v * *
“Australiophile”: Of 130 industrial com-
panies quoted on the Stock Exchange, of
Melbourne 10 years ago, only 23 have sur-
vived on the list. British investment trusts
are going through a bad time. Out of a
total of 108 companies 51 have temporarily
lost the whole of their ordinary and a part of
their preference capital. Of the remainder,
19 have less than 50 p.c. of their ordinary
capital represented by assets, and 24 between
50 p.c. and 100 p.c. In only 14 cases is
ordinary capital fully covered.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING. WEEK. » * :
Her Majesty's .............. Grand Opera Season
Criterion ...... “The’Barretts of Wimpole Street”
Royal ; . “Venus, Etd.”
State Movies and >Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.’
Royal , “Bitter Sweet”
King's .’. “Whistling in the Dark”
State ....‘, ’. Movies and Talkies
♦
A Musical Event
M. G. Skipper writes:—
Having been informed that the present
election in Victoria is vital to the future of
the Commonwealth, that Australia is once
more, at the Crossroads, that whether she
descends forthwith to perdition or advances
towards the Promised Land depends on
whether she returns Mr. Tunnecliffe or Sir
Stanley Argyle to power, that, in short, the
issue, is Life or Death, I have been moved,
nay impelled, to commemorate the event in
“Spend, Save, Save, Spend!”
the way I am most incompetent to do
it—namely, in music. In one titanic out-
burst of inspiration I have composed a
SYMPHONY in C minor
Op. I
(“Eroica”),
It is in three movements and any number
of explosions.
I know nothing about music, but that
matters not. The best artists nowadays
know nothing about painting, and the, best
sculptors are equally ill-informed. The
miserly resources employed by my friends
Prof. Bernard Heinze and Prof. F. Hart
were quite inadequate to express my emo-
tions. My orchestra requires the usual
strings, wind, brass and tympani, with the
addition of harps, celesta, organ, large drums,
glockenspiel, triangle, wood box, Indian
drum, cymbals, tambourine, gong, two anvils
struck with a hammer, five factory whistles,
one automobile horn, a Queensland bullroarer
and Hell’s bells. Incidentals placed about
the. hall include 14 loud-speakers delivering
policy speeches,, a megaphone which shouts
‘‘You’re a Liar” throughout ' the per-
formance, unusual lighting effects, a talk-
ing screen, ballets of returned soldiers,
Malice farmers, manufacturers, intelli-
gent citizens and other unemployed. A
"Return wiping their
lips.”
stage presenta-
tion goes on
s i multaneously,
hecklers in the
audience hurl
abuse at the
musicians and
A n a r c hists
throw bombs.
Lining the stage
is a row of
palms in pots.
Periodically a
sinister figure in
a mask comes
out and greases,
the palms. A
mixed gang of
Communists on
piecework dig tt
mine under the
orchestral well,
which a regi-
ment of New
Guards fills
with dynamite. From time to time from the
instruments played by the politicians emerge
horrible smells representing Soldier Settle-
ment, War Service Homes, Government bread
contracts, moratoriums and the like.
In composing this gigantic work I have
ignored all the old rules. The harmonic and
contrapuntal system on which my work is
built represents a complete regression in the
development of the art and denies the whole
painful evolution effected by centuries of great
composers. This is achieved, in the psycholo-
gical sense, by doing everything wrong.
Technically it consists of using the forbidden
parallel fourths, fifths, sevenths and octaves
ad lib., also ad nauseam, and inserting into
every chord the blaring cacophony of the
minor or major second, also the subnormal
third. The cardinal principle of harmony,
which, according to Prof. Hart, ensues that
dissonance must be prepared and dissolved,
is thereby thrown overboard entirely; and
the essential basis of counterpoint—that the
movement of voices must rest chiefly on
contrary, not parallel, motion—is directly
reversed. To complete the outlines of this
system of composition, I employ a rhythmic
anarchy which effectively dispels the last
remnant of logic my music might otherwise
show. I do not maintain a given time sig-
nature for more than one and a half bars.
The tempo, as well as the metrical division,
is also constantly altered. The last page of
the score contains no fewer than 17 different
speed indications. To emphasise the confu-
sion, my score carries elaborate and some-
times contrary directions, so that the notes
are practically buried from sight in a welter
of appassionatos, tranquillos, animandos and
ritardandos. Finally, lest the following pro-
grammatic description of my work should
convey any suggestion of intelligibility, the
reader should bear in mind that the orches-
tra begins the composition in the middle,
one-third of the players working towards die
beginning, another third working towards
the end, while the remainder plays anything
that comes in to . its head.
Before proceeding to a detailed description
I wish to emphasise that'the piece must be
played in the
a p propriate
a t mosphere.
• Colored
lights are
thrown on
the orchestra
t lir oughout.
The condue-
' tor blows his
own trumpet
and wears a
d e t ermined
aspect, large-
ly due to a
false chin.
The various
sections are
“The first violin.”
dressed symbolically. The strings are
pulled—l mean, played—by musicians dis-
guised as financiers. The first violin
bears an exact resemblance to Sir Robert
Gibson. The triangle, drums, cymbals
and harps are played by musicians repre-
senting the great economic experts from
our universities. Some of the professors
have faces like eggs, others like cabbages. The
heads of all of them are stuffed with text-
books 40 years old, and as they play their
mouths utter such respected aphorisms as
“Moderate Deflation,” “Controlled Infla-
tion,” “National Honor,” “National Credit,”
“Principles of Sound Finance” and the like.
The brasses are played by a group repre-
senting politicians. Mr. Tunnecliffe has two
faces, one looking to the right and the other
to the left. Sir Stanley Argylc has a face
which is almost entirely mouth.
The First Movement opens with a Lento
introduction in which the main subject, of
the movement,
“THE DEPRESSION”
is outlined. This theme slowly developed
becomes the principal subject of the Allegro
non, troppo, and is heard in the strings in D
minor. The theme of the Introduction is
then repeated, followed by a statement of
the first subject, now given in F minor. A
change to F major and the second subject,
“NATIONAL SACRIFICE,”
enters quietly with a beautiful theme also
for the strings. At this point Archbishop
“A procession of unemployed begins to file
across the stage”
Head drives on to the stage in a magnificent
limousine and for the remainder of the per-
formance continuously exhorts the nation to
vote, according to Christian principles, for
Equality of Sacrifice. This theme is then re-
peated by the full orchestra, and the Free
Fantasia begins. From the strings comes a
demand for further sacrifices, which, in the
hands of the triangle, • cymbals and harps,
is interpreted as a request for balanced
budgets. This is taken up by the brasses,
the right half or which states it as
a reduction of taxation and a ten per
cent, cut in wages, while the left half
demands a 33J cut in interest, and mort-
gages. A lovely Coda, bringing back a remin-
iscence of the happy days of yore when Aus-
tralians had faith in their own brawn and
muscle and their brains, is smashed to atoms
by a roll of thunder from the drums, sug-
gestive of a further drop in Government
securities in London and New York and a
rise in the exchange. During this and the
subsequent movements musicians not other-
wise engaged go off and return periodically
wiping their lips, while a continuous stream
of unemployed in cast-off clothing and with
muzzles on their mouths hurries on with
plates of caviare and pdt6 de foie gras for the
orchestra. ~
The second movement, Allegretto in B
flat minor, opens with a short passage for
harp and strings, which introduces a plaintive
melody suggestive of the doubt and per-
turbation of foreign investors in Australian
bonds, given by the English horn and later
carried on by the American organ. Note the
lovely manner in which these two instru-
ments develop ( this touching melody. An
“The conductor blows his
own trumpet”
i n t cresting
variation of
this theme,
re p resenta-
tive of the
Flight of
Capital from
Australia to
Tierra del
Fuego and
other hap-
pier lands, is
followed by
a new mel-
ody, given
out * by the
clarinet and
later by the
strings, pro-
posing fur-
ther sacri-
fices. The
sectiou of
the orches-
tra representing the economic experts exhorts
the nation to “Save, Save, Save, or the
Country will go to Blazes.” This theme is
developed by the brasses promising that this
will lead to a solution of the national diffi-
culties. The movement comes to a gentle
close.
The Finale, Allegro non troppo in D
major, has a very short introduction. The
opening theme,
“TRUST THE. EXPERTS,”
is presented by the violoncellos and bassoons.
During this movement ballets and tableaux
begin to make their appearance on the stage
in ever more and more rap'd succession,
until they seem to be treading on one
another’s toes —ballets of girls out of j-obs
and boys leaving school with no prospect of
applying their knowledge to productive use;
tableaux depicting ex : farmers from the Malice
earning a living drawing pictures of Phar Lap
on the pavements of Collins-street, and
patients in Infectious Diseases hospitals sleep-
ing two to a bed. The second themej "‘Follow
Britain and Stick to the Premiers’ ' Plan/ ’
is first given lay the brasses and then taken
up by the strings. The first subject of the
Finale, “Trust the Experts,” is; again 1 heard
and given a forceful development by the
cymbals and drums. The character of the
music now changes, and after a ritardando
the theme given out in the Allegretto by the
section .of the orchestra representing the
economic experts is changed, by a brilliant use
of variations, from “Save, Save, Save, or the
Country will go to Blazes” into "'Spend,
Spend, Spend, or We will All be in the Soup.”
A further development of the Allegro brings
with it a recapitulation of the Depression
motive, while the tableaux and ballets become
ever more numerous and confused. A long
Coda, repeating all the previous themes,
begins. The strings shrill their exhortation
to Trust the Experts, the English horn
shrieks out its warning to Australia to put
bouse in ordc- the brasses bellow for
higher and
higner taxes
and bigger and
bigger wage
cuts, the drums
beat out iu in-
sistent demand
to Stick to the
Premiers’ Plan,
the clarinet an-
nounces in ring-
ing tones that
Prosperity is
Round the Cor-
ner, the econo-
mists cry Spend,
Save, Save,
Spend, and as
the demand for
More and More
Sacrifice is
taken up by all
the instruments,
the mine dug by
the Communists
and laid by the
New Guard is
“A demand for further
sacrifices from the strings.”
exploded, blowing up the entire orchestra.
The loud-speakers are heard announcing the
election results. A procession of unemployed
begins to file across the stage.
The Williamson opera co.’s performance
of “Carmen” at Sydney Her Majesty’s on
Saturday night was more successful . con-
sidered as a. vocal and orchestral recital than
as a production of opera. Bruno Castagna
as Carmen had voice, skill, elocution aud
gesture, and showed that she understood- the
part from A to Z. But she didn’t look it.
Pedro Mirassou’s Don Jose was handicapped
in the first two acts by a comic uniform.
Apollo Granforte’s Escamillo was acutely
aware of the fact that he wasn’t really in
Spain, but on the stage iu Australia, acknow-
ledging the plaudits of an audience entranced
by his fine singing. The chorus,, as in sopie
other productions of the season, sang tlieir
lines in English, the principals in Italian;
a procedure more suited to' Babylon' than
to Seville. Micaela (Violet Rogers) drifted
on and off in the rigout of Marguerite in
Gounod’s “Faust,” and if she had burst into
the “Jewel Song” it wouldn’t have made
much difference to the very small amount of
illusion that was lying around. The audi-
ence. showed every evidence of delight. It
must have been after such a performance
that Goethe protested plaintively, “I wonder
that your nature is thus organised that your
ear can listen to charming sounds while
your sight, the most perfect of your senses,
is tormented by incongruous objects.”
"Ex-farmers from the Mallee.”
Sydney Hall was packed for the
finals of the Aust. Play Soc.’s one-act play
competition. The judges had to choose from
five plays. “Hypocrites,” by T. S. Gurr, was
spoilt by wooden acting. “No Robbery,” by
T. Inglis Moore, though it gave evidence of
insufficient rehearsal, was the brightest effort
of the evening. “Dream Errant,” by James
Glennon, was well handled, though overlong
intervals tended to make it tedious. “The
Raid” (the prize-winner), by Dora Wilcox,
provided some of the best acting of the even-
ing, particularly on the part of Nance Gurr,
Madeline Howell and Carolyn Forsyth.
“Postman’s Knock’\ (the runner-up), by
Ruth Bedford, was acted reasonably well.
The judges, Mrs. Bell Allan, Miss Gladys
Marks, Dr. George Dr. Raymond
Firth and John Gould, appear to have fol-
lowed conservative lines. , . ,
# * #
Maurice Diamond’s revue co. continues to
keep Sydney Grand Opera House audiences
in an amiable frame of mind. Lyle Lam-
mond uplifts her voice in tuneful ballads,
Yvonne Banvard warbles pertly and Peggy
Peat and Stella Collier contribute to the
flow of melody. George Lloyd and Walter
Cornock hand out laughable tomfoolery;
Edna Emmett and Billy Delaney wear their
dancing shoes a little thinner to good pur-
pose. A dozen comely lasses form the ballet.
* * *
The return of Ella Shields filled Sydney
Royal on Saturday. She sang about sunshine
dispelling dark clouds, and, of course, was
heard in “Burlington Bertie.” Also on the
programme 'was the Rolls revue “Venus,
Ltd.,” which fills in the time till nearly mid-
night, and gives Gus Bluett, Jennie Benson,
Billy Kershaw and other amusing folk
plenty of opportunities.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Forbidden,” at Sydney Plaza, is by Frank
Capra, who directed it, and is no more incred-
ible than most; of its melodramatic kind.
Barbara Stanwyck is a small-town librarian
who suddenly .gets- an urge to “live,” and
decides to do in, her small fortune on a trip
to Havana. She meets Adolphe Menjou on
the way, and they fall in love. It is not
till the pledge of their affection is quite a
big girl that the. mother learns the worst;
Adolphe is married to one whom he can’t
decently leave, as she is a chronic invalid
through his fault. Adolphe and Barbara go
on living together, and she gives her child
to the other lady—just why isn’t satisfac-
torily explained. The complications arc
introduced by Ralph Bellamy, a yahoo
scandal-sheet editor, who hates Adolphe, and
loves and wants to marry Barbara. Bel-
lamy and his investigation staff of three —
who look more like thugs than peaceful ink-
slingers—work hard to get something on
Adolphe for publication purposes, and even-
tually discover there has been a woman in
his life. All that remains to put the coping-
stone on 20 years of arduous sleuthing is to
find out the woman’s name. At this stage
Barbara marries the editor to save her irre-
gular family ; he learns the worst, and
But go and see the climax for yourself; the
show is well worth it, if only for the acting
of the two principals. Miss Stanwyck gives
a realistic picture of the type of one-man
woman who can be yanked back to
sin or domesticity, as the case may be, by a
glance or a hug, and Menjou, in spite of his
age, is highly convincing as what the French
call her “fatal man.” He has it all —charm,
poise, humanity and a most appealing voice.
The dialogue is natural, and there is plenty
of unforced humor. “Forbidden” is an in-
teresting example of what the talkies have
done for the world of entertainment. The
plot belongs to “The Silver King” era, but
the staging, acting and talk are as natural-
istic-asmodern life.
* * v
: Supporting the “Vagabond King”-“Student
Prince” hybrid,, “Beggar Student,” at Syd-
ney Mayfair is “Up for the Gup,” an Eng-
lish comedy, featuring Sydney Howard and
set in the north of England, where the mill-
hands take as much interest in the Soccer
tournament as Australia does in “what won
the larst.” John Willie Entwhistle (How-
ard) is a weaver at Ilardcastle’s mill who
dreams of a bright future with Mary (Jean
Wyndham), co-weaver and fellow-chorister
at chapel, when he sells his invention. But
Cyril, the black-hearted Hardcastle heir, sees
Mary’s interest in John Willie, and sacks him.
■So John Willie carts his model loom to
Cartwright, a rival millowner whom H’ard-
castle is crushing out of business. Before
Cartwright can convince his board that this
invention will revolutionise weaving, John
Willie and Mary go to London “foor t’ Coop
final.” John Willie’s pockets are picked,
and Mary falls into Cyril’s clutches. John
\Villie endeavors to see the match without
a ticket, and gets in—as the final whistle
is blown. Then he saves Mary, and, broke,
they face a long tramp home, where fortune
waits.
¥ ¥
“The Ruling Voice” (First National), at
Sydney Regent, deals with racketeering. Jack
Bannister (Walter Huston), is chief rack-
eteer, his means of extracting tribute from
traders ranging from boycotting to dynamit-
ing. The return of Bannister’s daughter
Gloria (Loretta Young), who has been fin-
ishing her education abroad, complicates
matters for her dad. When she learns how
he earns the rent she turns her back upon
him. Gloria’s rebellion occurs on the eve
of an offensive being staged by Bannister
against a band of reformers. Bannister
begins to get moral qualms, but finds that
the system he has created is too big to break
away from. He gets tangled up with a
pretty widow who is acting as a spy for the
enemy. Gloria has a love affair with a scion
of American aristocracy. The way to a
happy ending is paved with the dead bodies
of various wicked characters. The other
Regent film, “Stepping Sisters” (Fox), tells
of the adventures in high society of a trio
of chorus girls, impersonated by Louise
Dresser, Minna Gombell and Jobyna How-
land.
* *
“Flying High” (M.-G.-M.), at Sydney
State, is the talkie version of a musical
comedy which has a rather stronger plot
than is usually considered necessary in such
productions, but that isn’t saying much.
Rusty Krause (Bert Lahr), a slightly
deranged mechanic, invents an airship. A
penniless young man (Pat O’Brien) joins
Rusty in commercially exploiting the
machine. The company gets into financial
difficulties, and on the eve of an important
trial flight is in danger of losing the
machine to one of its, creditors. Pansy
Potts (Charlotte Greenwood), a waitress
with cash who is pining,, to become married
to an airman, is collared by the promoter,
whose plan is to marry her to Rusty. Love
scenes between Pansy and Rusty consist
mostly of wild hurryings and scurryings
hither and thither, with acrobatic interludes
and a great deal of cliairsmashiug. Rusty,
at last gets his machine into .the air with
Pansy clinging to the wing. A tussle between
the pair above the clouds enlivens the pro-
ceedings. Rusty eventually descends to be
the hero of the hour. ,
* # *
“Friends and Lovers” (R.K.0.), at Syd-
ney Haymarket, is an excuse for Adolphe
Menjou, Lily Damita and Von Stroheim to
behave as movie habitues expect them to.
Menjou and Laurence Olivier, both in love
with Lily, who is married to Von Stroheim,
are in the same regiment. Adolphe orders the
infatuated youth to fight, with only a few
men, a rearguard action. Invalided home,
both try to forget Lily; but she has some-
thing to say about that. The dialogue at
times sounds something like English. The
support, “Freighters of Destiny” (Univer-
sal), has no excuse whatever.


1
MARIPOSA » MONTEREY
H * CM.ew super-skips beqin a new
super-service to America cmJ England
MARIPOSA" June 4
"MARIPOSA" June I
Sailing from Sydney
"MONTEREY" July 2
Sailing from Melbourne
"MONTEREY" June 28
SETTING a new record for speed—18 days from Sydney to
San Francisco — these new sea giants will enable you tc
reach England within four weeks! Sailing via Auckland, they
will touch at the fascinating ports of Suva. Pago-Pago and
Honolulu— over the cool, enthralling route to America.
At no increase in fares, you will enjoy the most modern of
ocean comforts. Every stateroom is furnished with home-like
charm — luxurious beds — telephone — most of the first class
rooms with private or connecting bath. Outdoor swimming
plunges . . , radio entertainment . . . talking screen . . . n'ight
club ... shopsv .. daily newspaper., their nine decks replete
with facilities for your enjoyment.
a
Uf
£
2A
M5
Through transportation may be arranged to any point in
America or England. Let us assistyou in planningyour itinerary
FARES ..... Sydney to San Francisco
First Class from £73 Cabin Class from £50/10
FARES . • • Melbourne to San Francisco
First Class from £75 Cabin Class from £52/10
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge St., Sydney. Tel. B 7981-3.
AGENTS: DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED
461 Bourke Street, Melbourne. ‘Phone: Central 288 (5 Lines)
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
EVERY STITCH IN IT IS A HAND STITCH
m'
l j
m
■
A SADDLE TO LAST
A LIFETIME.
No. 136
TUMBA STOCK
SADDLE.
THE TUMBA STOCK SADDLE, with reasonable care,
will last a lifetime, and rarely be in the repair shop.
The price is most reasonable, and is a much better
proposition than buying a second-hand saddle—it
will be cheaper in the long run, and will have a
good re-sale value. Every stitch even in the panel
is put in by hand, the dees are metal-lined under
the leather and will not pull out. The tree is one
of the strongest made, and the workmanship and
material are first-class in every way.
Price, bare, £ll 12 6
FITTINGS EXTRA—No. 3 Best Bevelled Leathers, 8/0 ;
No. 21 Folded Girth, 6/6; Good N.-P. 4-bar Stimip-
irons, 7/6 £1 2 6
Complete
£l2 15 0
Freight Paid for Cash with Order to any N.S.W. Railway Station. For 5/- extra we wilt send
it to any Victorian Railway Station.
Write for Price List of Saddles—from 72/6 —Whips, Collars, etc.
WALTHER S STEVENSON LTD. 395 George Street, Sydney,
TS BETTER
THAN EVER/
%
THE NEW
ANTI-KNOCK
PETROL
The latest achievement in motor spirits-
Now available at all C.O.R. Pumps.
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government 8t Anglo-Persian Oil Co Ltd.)
Victoria: Poolman St., Port Me bourne, Phone: M 3 261. Refinery: Laverton, Vic. Sydney : 117
Pitt St. Agents for S. Australia QC Country Districts of New South Wales : D ALGETY 6C CO. L 1 D.
C 29 24/32
BIG ADVERTISERS use
this great paper.... exclusively
The Brisbane “Courier” is read in every corner of Queensland:
read for its authentic news, its authoritative articles, and for its
sound guidance on all public questions. Big advertisers know this:
they invariably use the Brisbane “Courier"—sometimes ex-
clusively. In 1931 the ‘‘Courier” carried at least 1 60,000 inches
more advertising than its morning rival: it carried almost as
much as two other Brisbane dailies together. Be guided by those
FACTS —largest circulation—widest coverage in city and country.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
QueensIandPs Leading Daily Newspaper—Established 1846.
Representative: ROBERT D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. (B5007.)


ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) j W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N.' S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
10BEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuea
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 “ £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Waranbini” : I had a carpet-snake’s nest
under observation for about a fortnight at
Deep Creek, on the
Richmond River. The
nest was in open
grass country, but not
far from the scrubby
bank of the creek. The
eggs, which were all
stuck together, were
piled in the form of a
pyramid, about a foot
high, and mother
snake, when on the
nest, was coiled round
and round the pyra-
mid, covering every egg,
with her head resting
on the top. Though on
several occasions I
stood within a yard of her, she made
no attempt to uncoil. She was always
there in the daytime, leaving her
poSt only in the evening. The nest
was exposed to the sun during a
good part of the day, and to incu-
bate her eggs the python has to keep
them moist. I never witnessed the
interesting process of laying the eggs,
but twice saw her encircling them.
She was 12ft. long, and bulky. She
shortened her length by drawing up
into many bends and curves, with
her tail partly round the base, and
then crawled over herself, straightening and
folding until she reached the top. When
leaving the nest, the whole body seemed to
slacken at once and fall away.
■f * . *
“G.J.A.S.’’: During the depression of the
early ’nineties 1 was on an out-back track
in N. S. Wales and, having lost my bearings,
found myself at sundown close to a selection.
As my tucker-bags were nearly empty I asked
to be allowed to stay the night. There was
a reluctance at first, but when it was found
I was a newchum my hosts gave me a
hearty welcome. It was a bachelors’ estab-
lishment and there was an air of excitement.
They were going to kill a beast, they told me,
and would give me a bit of beef to take with
me next day. After tea, knives were sharp-
ened and a big fire set going close to the
stockyard, which was empty. On my re-
marking on this I was told’ that the cattle
would be along shortly. An hour went by. then
a crashing was heard in the dense mulga, and
a small mob of bullocks dashed down the wing
and into the yard, closely followed by a rider
on a sweating horse. In a second, it seemed
to me, the fattest was shot, the rails were
dropped and cattle and horseman disappeared
into the darkness as quickly as they had come.
While I was wondering why it was necessary
HIS PROBLEM.
“Yes, it’s a great bridge, Larry, but what beats me is how I’ll ever pay for it.”
to do the job with such a rush and so late
at night, the beast was skinned, and the boss
dragged the hide over to the fire and bundled
it in. This was too much for me “Why
b«rn it?” I exclaimed Is a largo hide like
laughter as he pushed it well down between
the blazing logs. I asked no more questions.
The piece they gave me lasted me for days
and was verv'onod
* * * *
~,T 7 . „ c , „
\\ errimee : Some wedge-tailed ca„hv
were often about the boundary-riders camp,
and old Jack, who suspected them of having
designs on the lambs, was told that a good
way to catch them was to spread a blanket
011 ,,tbe ground and place a freshly-killed
rabbit m the middle ot it. W hen the. cag e
dropped down to feed on the rabbit, it was
explained, its long claws got fast m the
woolly blanket, and it couldn t get .y.
Jack had only on e blanket. He sp (ad
it a.hundred yards away from the camp nnd
baited it as instructed. lie had ha dy g t
wben an eagle swcopiM down, *fted
the rabbit cleanly and flew off with it. That
little defect in the trap was easily remedied.
He got another rabbit and tied it securely
to the blanket—to force the bird to alight.
The next eagle swooped like the first one,
and flew off with the rabbit and blanket,
too. “Damn fool of an idea, if you ask
mo,” Jack said as his bliiey vanished in
the distance.
* * * *
“O. Coral”; “Me, I been go along auction
sale the other day, along Thursday Island.”
remarked my friend Jimmy Susu, after he
had carefully shredded up . part of the stick
of tobacco I had just given him to make a
cigarette. “I look that auction, he got one
man for stand up and sing out something all
time when them ’nother man he want them
thing. B.v-’n’-bye, I savee which way for
buy something all same them ’nother man.
I see plenty pillow, and some looking-glass
and some saucepan, and I think I like
buy that one. I tell one friend belong me,
‘You and me we buy them thing for take
home.’ When that'man he hold up that
looking-glass now, I sing out big fella,, all
same them ’nother man, ‘Five bob!’ Then
some ’nother man he call out ‘Ten bob !’
and that auctioneer-man he say ‘’Gainst
you this one, Jimmy.’ I get little bit wild
now, I sing out ‘One pound,’ and that
’nother man he sing out more big, too. I
go, go, go bring that price he come up
more than two pound. Then that auctioneer
he call name belong me; and everybody
laugh and say ‘Jimmy and his friend he been
go ’gainst one another!’ He make me
proper fool. All right, now them pillow
come for sell. I catch price, six bob. Then
that auctioneer he say ‘How many you take,
Jimmy? One or the lot!’ ‘What you
think?’ I say ; 4 I take him altogether, whole
10t..’ Then he give men ten pillow, and say
‘Pay clerk three pound!’ Me, I proper
fool again—I been think that price six
shillings belong for whole lot! Never mind,
might I make auction sale when I stop
along island some time. He good for make
money, that one.”
“Comma” : Bill Mania and his wife were
living in a two-roomed hut on one of the
lower Murray stations, 30 miles from the
i lomesto ad. During Manin’s absence each
d ith his mob a b]ack known as Warrigal
pfeller tuckei until he got what lie wa td.
Bill decided to teach the black a lesson he
would remember all his hte. Dressing the
wife in his shepherds rigout, he sent her on
with the mob at the usual time one morning,
and after building a roaring fire settled down
t 0 awab; developments. Peter, seeing the
Ue thought, well out on the run, soon
t j an appe;u ’ a nce, and as he strode
h the doorway Mania slammed the
door slmt and locke d it. Then with a shovel
bfi sca ttered the red-liot coals over the
ear t ben floor, and went after the darky with
& p j oce 0 f green malice sapling. Every move-
mftnt brou ght the soles of Peter’s bare feet
con tact with the burning coals. Scream-
j - tb pabl be j cap t from floor to table,
an s d from table to floor, as Bill lambasted
hi m with the waddy. Finally the door was
llP | o cked, and a thoroughly coWed black made
p . • ’ t t ■’ , nb p otor had
,„3t
lo.unt ms
“Tano Kama”: Although has
taken up tobacco-growing only in the last
few years the plant isn’t nevt to the Domi-
mon. When the first white settlers arrived
they found it flourishing all round some of
the pas. How the plants were introduced
is a mystery. My own guess is that the
Spanish explorers of the sixteenth century
may have visited the islands in their world-
wide travels, and either purposely or acci-
dentally distributed some seed. The Maoris
didn’t know what tobacco was for, but they
soon learned when they came in contact with
the whites. A whaler did a good trade in sou-
ing dock plants, brought from N, S. Wales, to
the Maoris. Pakehas who till the land to-day
would like the name of that bird, so that
they might express to his descendants their
opinion of that whale-catching ancestor.
* * * *
«rr. F . q -, b dnf ~ v b - ,
r .„: '/ f; 8 1 eels “ ave been found
orwv m ( ea A, or , ( ? y , ng °. n tie s h in gl° bar,
wide, which at times separates Lake
Ellesmere, m.the South Island of M.L., from
the sea. The eels go out to sea each year,
but, probably on account of the unusually
dry season, many of them have been unable
to get to the top of the ridge. Maoris say
they have never before seen such large num-
bers stranded. The average length of the
castaway eels is 3ft. When they don’t have
a sandbar to negotiate, M.L. eels go to
sea in a very chummy fashion. I have seen
in the Foxton River a ball of them about
3ft. in diameter slowly drifting along with
the stream.
THE OLD-TIME SEALERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sealers and the whalers of a century
ago,
How little, save from legends dim, about
their deeds we know,
Those hardy mariners who ranged our south-
ern coast around,
Their beat from Cape Northumberland to
far King George’s Sound!
They plied their trade along the Bight, and
there were not a few
Who made their way round Leeuwin’s Cape
and up to Rottnest, too.
Laws to themselves, ’tis safe to say, they
had to be to thrive,
For there was little other law ran south of
thirty-five.
And some were French, and British some—
ex-convicts swelled their ranks,
It’s understood —but most of them by all
accounts were Yanks.
Tom Halls and Reuben Paines as well I’ll
bet those craft could show
That traversed our uncharted shores a hun-
dred years ago ;
They whaled and sealed and pioneered—and
fought the blacks .besides,
And carried screaming lubras off for tem-
porary brides.
No Isle of Aves was for them, like Kingsley
wrote about,
But, in default of such, they managed pretty
well without.
Islands like King and Kangaroo served for
their hours of ease
When they had wrung their tribute from
inhospitable seas.
’Twas there they renovated gear and rested
for a spell,
And doubtless drank their whack of rum
when ’twas obtainable.
SLIGHT MISUNDERSTANDING.
SCANDALISED RECHABITE: “Hi! Guard!”
GREGARIOUS DRUNK: “Don’t call any other blokes, mate. I’ve hardly got enough for
me and you.”
The whalers of the early days, the sealers
of the Bight,
They came from half the world away; they
lived as best they might;
They left but little trace where once their
lawless marks were set.
I wonder if their spirits haunt those dunes
and headlands yet.
N.s.w.
PIPARDS.


Taxation and the
Investor.
Consols and other securities com-
pared. The Exchange tangle from
Investors’ point of view.
These and many subjects
of vital interest are dis-
cussed in the May issue of
“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY
ON SALE SATURDAY,
MAY 7.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
T
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits §in., £ l in. and
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
PLUM RAZOR
t. blades.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case—
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—Jin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 805 QUEEN STREET
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 207 COLLINS STREET
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund ,1,000,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£2,250,000
1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued bn London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
“Tamornie”: It’s an ill wind, etc. Cyclonic
storms such as that described by “Lavra
pinta” (B. 13/4/’32) are of frequent occur-
rence in North Australia, and some of the
really severe ones strip the ground of even
foot-high shrubs. Large trees are generally
uprooted cleanly, as most of the northern
species have no tap root and the disturb-
ances occur when the ground is saturated by
torrential . rain. A fed-up settler, after
nearly having the soul frightened out of him
by a cyclone, which tore across his block,
went to inspect the damage. Being a little
smarter than some, with his son’s aid he cut
up and threw together the uprooted trees on
the storm track within his boundaries. He
then applied to the Government for an
advance on account of improvements and
later collected £6O. This amount he invested
in pack-saddles and tucker, and with his son
set out for Queensland at a very raphl pace.
“Homfrey Beale”: The discov-
ery of the crocodile on the steps
of the Townsville post office
(“Porosus,” B. 23/3/’32) isn’t
the only incident of its kind in
the city’s annals. In the ’eighties
a barber w T ho had left all doors
open owing to intense heat awoke
to hear a noise as of something
being dragged along his shop floor.
Investigation revealed a young
croc., just over 4ft. in length,
nosing behind the counter. The
light badly scared the infant,
which slithered hurriedly down
the street and fell excitedly into
Itose Creek. It was years "before
open doors at night came into
fashion again.
* * *
“Yarri”: In some interior dis-
tricts where dingoes are a con-
tinual menace to sheep, reversion
to shepherding has been suggested.
One objection is the expense. The
boundary-rider of to-day displaces
a dozen shepherds. As he has
long lines of fences to patrol, he
hasn’t much time to watch sheep;
and the woollies are never yarded
at night, when dingoes are mostly
abroad. The old-time shepherds
were cheap; plenty of old fellows
unfit for hard work were glad of
the job at 10s. a week and keep.
In most cases a good dog did the
active work. Some of the shep-
herds were provided with watch-
boxes for shelter and hurdles for
yards. The boxes were practically
portable huts; the yards were
portable, too; and so, when the
shepherd had to shift to new pas-
tures, he took the hut and yard
with him as -well as the flock.
Wire fencing knocked out the
shepherd, but it made no differ-
ence to the dingo. The only bar
to that marauder is a dog-proof fence topped
with double-barbed wire.
* * * *
“M.L.C.” : Half a century ago only a
rough foot-track connected the'port of Burnie
with the Waratali field some 50 miles distant.
McGinty, finder of the first gold nugget in
Tag,, lived at Burnie. He prided himself on
being the fastest walker in the island, and
would, on overtaking another traveller, offer
to carry some of his swag for him—always a
safe offer —then beg to be excused for pushing
on “as he was in a bit of a hurry.” Then
HIGHLY POLISHED.
FIRST SERMON-TASTER: “Dost ’ee think gain’ to college ’ave improved ’e much,
William?”
SECOND DITTO: “Nawthin' I all, John. They’ve gived un a coat of Duco, ’n'
tha's all.”
with an airy “See you to-morrow,” he would
forge ahead. To get even with McGinty the
Waratah folk imported a champion walker
from Vie. He started off on the road from
Burnie one day a little ahead of McGinty.
FATAL DEFECT.
"How did Mary's photo, turn out?”
"No plurry good, Boss; too much like her.”
The latter duly overtook him and passed on
with his usual formula, but to his disgust
found that he could not shake the stranger
off. At length, when the lights of Waratah
came in sight, the Victorian drew level and,
after explaining that he had kept behind as
he was not sure of the road, he offered to
carry some of McGinty’s swag. Apologising
for going on, as he was in a hurry, he swung
off with a cheery “See you to-morrow, my
lad.” Speechless with chagrin, McGinty
trekked back to Burnie. It was three weeks
before he could bring himself to face the
smile ready for him in Waratah.
* * * . *
“Oran”: Not all trapped animals display
resentment towards those. who render first-
aid (B. 20/4/’B2), as was made manifest in
a Maori land case some time ago. Two young
. schoolteachers, walking through bush coun-
try, came upon a young bull held securely
and painfully by the head in the coils of a
broken barbed-wire fence. The animal
seemed almost frenzied with pain, and the
rwo city girls did not fancy the task of
attempting to free him. But neither did they
like to leave the unfortunate creature sui-
fering, so they set about the long and risky
business of removing the wire. They made
preparations for a swift retreat on the-other
side of the fence ’when, the last strand was
lifted, but their fears were groundless. A
demonstratively grateful animal followed
them, thrusting his head over the fence and
allowing them to touch him and, incidentally,
use their first-aid outfit on his wounds. When.
they rode out some days later to see how the
animal was faring he gave every evidence of
remembering a previous acquaintance.
* * * *
i ~ T ~ , , „
t* thought so , ! ell
J V (B; 16/d/32), while a remorseless critic
?l'n tlSh knows nothing
about them. They ride neither with “the very
point oU their, toes m the stirrup, nor yet
with a straight leg There only two posi-
tions for the foot of a cavalryman in the stir-
rups: (1) with stirrups on the ball of the
foot (ceremonial parades only), (2) foot
right home in the stirrup (on all otfter occa-
sions). The position in the saddle is the
same as m a chair—sitting upright; the
leg from the knee downwards hangs free,
with the heel lower than the toe. The leg
ls never pointed forward, but drawn slightly
back. I urtlier the Tod Sloan crouch does
not prevent the jockey interfering with the
horse. Worsted Spur’ (B. 20/4/’32) was
dragged into the argument on account of his
sharing the peculiar notion (with “Kell B.”)
tv« w° U * C a horsa over a juu>
If Worsted Spur knows anything about the
Imperial cavalry perhaps he can explain how
you could get. a horse in a manege or train-
in,it o\or R biush ..once without wings
except by facing him up to it and “lifting’’
him over? Might I advise both “Kell B.”
and “Worsted Spur” to beg, borrow or steal
a copy of that classic “Breaking and Rid-
ing,” by Fillis. Fillis was a Frenchman
(probably “Ivell B.” believes also no French-
man can ride) and, the greatest exponent of
haute ecole riding of all time. Fillis could
make a horse canter backwards, and it wasn’t
a circus trick either,
* * * *
“Mulyan” : I once saw 7 a Binghi ./Escula-
pius applying the steam cure to a black bov
who had a severe attack of influenza. A nar-
row 7 pit, the length of the patient and 18in.
deep, w r as dug near the entrance of the
gunyali, and a fire kept burning in it till
the excavation was hot. It v 7 as then cleaned
out. Next a bed of gum leaves was.trampled
in, and covered with a thin blanket. On
r *' a t" £ bc - sufferer was placed full length, cov-
?. by lapping the sites ot the. blanket over
I 1 } 1 !®’ buried under sand. Only
his scared face was visible. Beads of per-
®?i ratl > on were soon oozing from it, and the
1' s sauce r-like eyes rolled from _ side
■*? Slde ’ “ ore om T f r oar of the specialist
wan. anything else. He seemed to think he
®fV n his grave, and that the burial was
a • • Immature. The doctor sat beside him,
wip, ' lg the sweat off his face with a dirty
rag w as consid ered that the patient
steamed enough. 1 hen the boy was
disinterred, carried m the blanket into the
Sunyah ajid dried with a dirty tow 7 el. His
resurrection was a relief that acted like a
tonic, for he grinned widely as he was tucked
-1 - to b , a c °hP le of days he was
f ttmg at ta e fire, convalescing on all the
Possum meat lie could get hold of.
' ttrr " „ . . *
Lramao : A motor-ear owner in the Cow
!r/ )un . try ot laranaki (M.L.) is invoking
blessings on the head of a malefactor who
recently commandeered his vehicle. The
chariot had been a source of trouble for
years, having defects for which, mechanics
could find no remedy When the nolice
found the ’bus by the'Wayside and returned
it to the owner he found, it in perfect order
and it has stayed that way; And it was
just this circumstance that enabled the police
to identify the thief, an escaped prisoner
who has exceptional mechanical talents
* * * , . * '
“Erua”: Members of the Southland Acoli-
matisation Society, which controls the little-
known fastnesses of the Fiord country of
M.L., were pleasantly excited recently when
a large moose was reported 60 miles' frtm
Invercargill. In 1910 several moose- were
obtained from North America and liberated
about 40 miles from where the moose was
seen the other day, but with the exception
of one shot 19 years Inter near Duskv Sound
none had been sighted since the liberation.
Rangers immediately investigated possible
areas after the last report, and numerous
tracks convinced them that the moose like
most other M.L. importations, is thriving
and increasing in its new environment.
THE OLD RIVER ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘Twas a track along the river,
Outlined first by someone’s dray.
From the farms to town and station,
That became our common way.
It meandered like a serpent,
And whene’er we had a load,
It was hard and heavy going
On that old river road.
Where it left the river timber
’Twas to cut across the bends,
Or to spread on quaggy marshes
Curving round the gully ends.
There you’d meet perspiring drivers
Striving on their teams to goad,
And the language was a caution
On the old river road.
Though at times ’twas hard and rutted,
In the main ’twould bog a duck,
And wherever you might journey
You’d the chance of getting stuck ;
And perhaps in mud and darkness
Stress compelled you to unload,
Or plod home and leave the shaker
On the old river road.
In the saddle we got splattered
Thickly, to our Sunday hats,
By the squelches from the horses
Plugging over boggy flats;
While the swaggies toiled barefooted
Through the haunt of frog and toad—
There was never any scorching
On the old river road.
Still the years brought compensations,
Though the way was always bad,
In assisting one another
Who’d forget the times we had?
Here and there young hearts were gladdened,
Meeting where adventure strode,
For romance went blithely faring
On the old river road.
N.s.w.
E. S. SORENSON.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Baths
*'3
£*3
mO ■ *ms S
1 3?
ilia
f*
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel.
Tariff per day:
Room and meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from 12/6
AGENCIES
A valuable feature of the Commonwealth Savings Bank service
is the establishment of agencies in practically all Post Offices
in Australia, as well as in many business houses. Altogether
there are nearly 5000 of these agencies in the Commonwealth,
from which it will be readily seen that the Bank’s service is
extended wherever there is population.
In every city, town and district, therefore, Savings Bank
facilities are available to men, women and children, for the
Savings Account may be used by all.
Wherever you may live, wherever you may travel within the
Commonwealth, you can utilise the Savings Account for your
profit and convenience.
CommoiwcaltbSavtelankofHustralia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government).
The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone; 81522.
SMOKE-OH!
LA DONNA IMMOBILE.
She married George, and said that he
Should never doubt her constancy.
In time she pot her freedom bach,
And voiced tiie same on ivedding Jack,
Augustus was the necct she met
And vowed to love and honor. Yet,
Her constancy no one can doubt —
She’s kept the same boy-friend throughout!
* #
Gandhi’s followers are mostly red Indians.
* *
“Found, Jersey cow in milk.”— “S.M.H.” advt.
Well, it’s better than flies, anyhow!
* ¥
“Victims of confidence tricksters are often ashamed
(o report their losses to the police.”
As Jock Garden might say: “Did men tell
no tales.”
* ¥
“When the Strathnaver was in the Red Sea a
Sydney passenger fell overboard in the shark-infested
waters. ’ ’— “S. M. It. ”
We refuse to be thrilled. What’s a shark
or two to a Sydney man?
¥ ¥
"Accused, a plasterer, proved to have a long list
of convictions.”
What matters in one prone to err
Jiist what he is or what he ain’tf
lie may have been a plasterer;
He clearly was no plaster saint.
II. M.
Do Valera has put the ire in Ireland.
* *
Bad luck keeps dogging N.S.W.’s tin-hare
Government.
* *
In Sydney neither the landlords nor the
tenants seem to be able to raise the rent.
Jack Lang: Political Thug.
Is there in all Webster —can we find in
the entire turgid lexicon of polysyllabic vitu-
peration—a phrase adequately to portray the
infernal infamy (apart from the empty-
headed snobbery, cynical impudence and
devilish depravity combined) of this callous
servant of Demos, who, with the interest on
his £13,650 17s. dripping from his oof-
stained fingers, has oiled and wormed and
slimed his way on to Labor’s Throne by the
via media of the Auburn Municipal Council?
Alas! that we should be compelled regretfully
to say it, there is no phrase to describe such
a being, or, if there is, we have been unable
(up to our necks, as we are, in ceaseless
efforts to advance the great and glorious
cause of the U.A.P.) to discover it.
OBJECT-LESSON IN POLITICAL
PREJUDICE.
(New Series—-No. 23,500.)
Fellow Nats. : ADVERTISE in the
“S. M. Herald.”
CALCULATE how much of your
meagre divvies has gone into th
talkies.
WHY does the Paralysis Theatre give
full pages to “Pigsface” and none to
YOUR PAPER? Boycott the Para-
lysis till it alters its advertising
policy.
Remember: Stevens is Right.
By legal chicanery, by crafty manipula-
tion of the £ s. and. of the soulless banks, by
a vile campaign of sheer intimidation and
social ostracism, Lang has im-
posed a Slave Code on Sunny
N. S. Wales, and on one of
liis truest, most devoted off-
siders. This soi-disant “states-
man,” this Mouther of Pro-
mises, who was to have made
the Sydney Trades Hall “fit
for Scottish ex-parsons to live
on,” forsooth! has fobbed oft"
his warmest supporter with a
second-hand limousine. (N.B.
—This is official and abso-
lutely dinkum.) And what of
the hapless Widows, Children
and Orphans? What of the
Mental Defectives, who have
toiled for this Emissary of
Red Guardism in their tens of
thousands, as never men
toiled before? The answer is
simply, starkly, pitilessly,
WHAT? They have been
diddled. To a Widow, to an
Orphan, to a Child and to a
Mental Defective they have
been left coldly, callously, on
Life’s Outer.
The Editor.
From the “Labor Daily”: —
Is Mr. Bruce a True Demo-
crat?
This venerable, organ of
public opinion yields to none
in its admiration of the Right
Hon. Stanley Melbourne
Bruce. His political views
are not ours. However, “Acer-
rimus ex omnibus nostris sen-
sible est sensus videndi.” Our
sense of sight, we sincerely
hope and pray, shall never be
so dimmed by ignoble party
strife as to debar us from
seeing and acclaiming an
honest man when the latter crosses Our line of
vision, be his political color what it may. We
have watched Mr. Bruce’s career with interest
since, as the merest tyro, he performed the
Herculean labor of emptying that limpet-
like patriot the Right Hon. W. M. Hughes
out of his job, and securing it, and its per-
quisites, for himself. We looked on, breath-
lessly admiring, while he made Australia’s
name as an heroic borrower ring* and ring
again adown the gilded corridors of cosmo-
politan finance. We watched him spending
a fortune (our fortune) on his dog-kennel
at Canberra; heard his resigned “ Nunc
dimittis” as he left for Bond-street after
his defeat by Mr. Holloway; acclaimed his
cheery “H'ere We Are Again!” as he re-
entered Parliament. But ever, like children
seeking the light, we were constrained to put
to ourselves the age-old query: “Is he a
Democrat?” And ever, like a message
wafted from far places on eager winds,
came the reply: “Taking him all round, it
is doubtful if one can fairly say he is.”
Lang has christened it the Collarwealtli
Government.
* *
ZOOLOGICAL NOTE.
“A leopard in London Zoo, when moping, was
revived with a small dose of whisky. ’
“The leopard cannot change his spots.’
With such remarks we’ve long been
peppered.
But give him drinks distilled by Scots,
And spots will swiftly change the leopard.
B.
* ¥
This man Scott seems to be too mean to
waste time.
UNFAIR DISTRIBUTION.
“Oh, it’s perfectly safe in the surf down here. I’ve been rescued
three times this season and never been in real danger once.”
“Lucky! I can't get a single man to save my life.”
“A man was found wandering about Melbourne
clad only in newspapers.”
They call it living in a democratic “Age”
over there.
* *
“One story told about the Wicklow giant is that,
being annoyed by his mother-in-law, he threw a
doorstep at her.”- —“ World.”
No doubt he felt it was a step in the right
direction.
* *
“ ‘She hit her husband with a length of lead
pipe,’ said witness, ‘because he never came home
before midnight.’ ”
She was consistent, if not right,
In her procedure grim.
He kept on staying out at night,
And so she outed him.
GARDEN WARFARE.
“Hints are given on the successful striking of
cuttings.”— “Age.”
In the event of all the cuttings in one’s
garden indulging in a successful strike, there
are several courses open to the employer. If
he adopts the con-
ciliatory method he
will locate the cause
of the trouble and en-
deavor to remove it.
Such weak - kneed
handling of the situa-
tion, however, is li-
able to lead to a lot
of expense. Oases
are known of subur-
ban employers who
have found them-
selves forced to agree
to a 44-hour growing-
week, with Saturday
afternoons and holi-
days off, and double
rations of blood and
bone when required
to sprout on Sundays,
The most satisfac-
tory plan is to deal
at once firmly with
the matter, and re-
place all insurgents
with free labor, ob-
tainable in any quan-
tity at the nearest
seedsman’s. Any in-
dividual showing go-
slow tendencies
should be at once
dismissed. A good deal of shooting is liable
to go on, but it can generally be quelled by
firmness and the withholding of all supplies
for a time.
¥ *
“Highly-fed barristers on each side are confident
that they have prevailed.”— “Truth.”
These highly-fed lawyers aren’t nearly so
fed up as some of their clients.
¥ ¥
“Mr. Hylands, M.L.A., said he had seen a cow-
laugh at one of the Victorian trains.” — “Argus.”
And we’ve seen many a poor cow go into
fits over some of the N. S. Wales trains!
“Mr. Lang’s hobby is gardening.” —“Labor Daily.”
In fact some call him a Garden tool.
THE FIRE-EATERS.
“Sir Oliver Lodge said that the spirits of men
who had fought in the Great War were very excited
and wanted to continue fighting. They had to be
calmed with whisky and cigarettes.”—“Sun-.”
“Bad news, Colonel. They’re making
another attempt to stop us fighting.”
“The white-livered disloyalists! But we'll
checkmate ’em, Major; we’ll keep the gratia
old flag flying, damme! By the way, did they
send along my C.B. all right—the one I
indented for on Monday?”
“Yes, sir. It was put on issue at the same
time as my D.S.O.
and Bar.”
“Good. Such spon-
taneous tributes from
one’s gracious Sove-
reign (God bless
him !) make all the
horrors and miseries
and privations worth
whi 1 e. Pass the
whisky and cigar-
ettes ; I need to be
calmed.”
“The infantry are
to blame, sir.”
“And not for the
first time, the curs !”
“Yes, the Ump-
teenth Battalion,
which has been in
the line for three
months, lost 50 per
cent, of its remain-
ing effectives last
week, and some of
the survivors say
they’re fed up.”
“Find out then-
names and I’ll see if
I can’t get them
court-martialled for
cowardice in the face
of the enemy or
something. Mea n-
whilc, all we veterans
of the Etaples front can do is square our
jaws and fight bravely, on. What restaurant
do we dine at to-night?”
*
“You talk about your historical know-
ledge,” .sneered the Sydneyite. “Bah ! I can
remember when the Field case began !”
¥ *
BEATEN AT THEIR OWN GAME.
“Without ships, a nation is without expression.”
—Captain Day.
“See what you’ve done?” howled the Pro-
fessor of Languages at his class of inarticu-
late bullock-drivers. “Lost your
reputation to these flat-footed
on ships! Haven’t you got any
pride in your profession? When
I was young no would have dared
to challenge my ability! You
of the modern generation are too
lazy to even —— swear properly!
Why don’t you go to sea for a few
years and try to learn a few healthy
. expressions?”
Y. D. V.
TOO LATE NOW!
HOSTESS: “So glad to see you, dear! But I’ve such a fearful cold
I couldn’t kiss you.”
VISITOR: “Oh, lam sorry—I hope your husband hasn’t got a cold,
too.”
“Artist John Longstaff was nearly made a prisoner
by the Boers when he fought with the Australian
Bushmen.”— 1 “World.”
It would have meant another brush with
the enemy if he hadn’t escaped.
TAKING CHANCES.
When I pursue the goddess Chance I
find she is amiss; and Misadventure is
a girl I all too often kiss. I carry round
THE SUCCESS OF FAILURE.
AUTHOR: “By Jove, yes! Made so much out of my
last book, ‘The Failure of Marriage ; that we’re
going off on a second honeymoon!”
a load of luck that’s nearly always ill, but
never dies —in fact, it is impossible to kill.
If Fortune on my shabby door should rap
and raise a shout, ’twill be because I’m not
at home —my luck is always out.
I go to Rand wick now and then, but horses
reckoned fast contract the slows when backed
by me, and, as a rule, are last. If by a
miracle I marked the right ten with a
■Chink, I’d no doubt find that I had made
my marks with fading ink!
My luck would make an ice-cream boil or
turn a curry cold. I’ve never tried to hang
myself; the damn rope wouldn’t hold.
P.P.
MY EPITAPH.
Don’t iceep for the soul of T.W.N.!
All garments of mourning and misery
doff!
On earth he endeavored to live by his pen,
So wherever he’s gone he is far better off.
T. W. N.


THE BANK OF
ADELAIDE
I
SIXTY-SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT
of the Directors to the Shareholders.
1932.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for the information of
Shareholders the Balance Sheet of the Bank as on the 28th March, 1932, and
Statements of Profit and Loss and the Reserve Fund on the same date:—
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 28th
March, 1932 (including the balance brought forward
from the previous year, £53,795/4/2), amounts to £120,571 2 2
Out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of 4 per
cent, per annum was paid in November last . . 25,000 0 0
£95,571 2 2
From which the Directors have transferred to an internal
reserve to provide for depreciation of Government
Stocks, etc. .. .. .. .. .. 30,000 0 0
Leaving available . . . . . . . . . . £65,5 71 2 2
Out of which the Directors have declared a Dividend for
the half-year ended 28th March, 1932, at the rate of
4 per cent, per annum, payable after the General
Meeting on May 4, 1932 . . . . . . . . 25,000 0 0
Leaving a balance to carry forward of . . . . . . £40,5 71 2 2
The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Registered Office of the
Company, 81 King William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, 4th May, 1932, at
twelve o’clock noon, at which the Shareholders will be called upon to elect one
Director in place of Mr. E. W. Holden, who retires in accordance with the Articles
of Association, but is eligible for re-election, and offers himself accordingly.
The Shareholders will be asked to elect two Auditors for the ensuing year, and
fix their remuneration.
HOWARD W. LLOYD, Chairman of Directors.
W. J. MASSON, General Manager.
S. G. MARTIN, Secretary.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
BALANCE SHEET, 28th March, 1932.
LIABILITIES.
Capital paid up.. £1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,000,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 65,571 2 2
Notes in Circulation ..
Bills in Circulation and Other
Liabilities
Balances due to other Banks
Deposits
Interest accrued on Fixed Deposits
and Rebates on Bills Discounted
£2,315,571 2 2
6,603 0 0
240,053 12 8
215,518 6 1
6,031,330 11 11
. 59,341 19 6
£8,868,418 12 4
Contingent Liabilities, consisting of
Letters of Credit, etc. .. .. £203,045 10 5
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion and
Cash .. .. £38,010 0 0
Australian Notes
and Cash with
C o m monwealth
£3,417,291 4 3
Rank Premises and Furniture .. 343,117 5 7
Bills Receivable in Australia,
Bills Discounted, and all other
Advances, after providing for
Contingencies .. .. .. 5,108,010 2 6
£8,868,418 12 4
Liabilities of Customers on Letters
of Credit, etc., as per Contra. . £203,045 10 5
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
From 30th March, 1931, to 28th March, 1932.
To Dividend in May,
1931 . . . . £37,500 0 0
„ Dividend in
November, 1931 ~ 25,000 0 0
£62,500 0 0
~ Transfer to an internal reserve.
Account .. . . . . .. 30,000 0 0
„ Balance 28th March, 1932 .. 65,571 2 2
£158,071 2 2
By Balance March 30, 1931 .. £91,295 4 2
„ Net Profit, including Recoveries,
and after making provision for
Bad and Doubtful Debts, Interest
accrued on Fixed Deposits, and
Rebate on Bills Discounted, and
deducting Expenses at Head Office
and 60 Branches, including
Salaries, Rents, etc. .. .. 66,775 18 0
£158,071 2 2
RESERVE FUND.
To balance at this date
£1,000,000
£1,000,000
By balance 30th March, 1931 ..
.. £1,000, #00
£1,000,000
W. J. MASSON, General Manager. S. G. MARTIN, Secretary.
HOWARD W. LLOYD, Chairman of Directors.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the Books and Accounts of
The Bank of Adelaide for the year ended 28th March, 1932, and certify that it is a
correct abstract of the same. We have counted the Cash and examined the Bills
and Government and Municipal Securities on hand at the Head Office. The Assets
and Liabilities at the Branches other than London have been taken on the Certificates
of the Managers and Accountants of the respective Branches, and those of the
London Branch as cabled by the London Manager.
G. R. ANNELLS {
KENNETH W. NEILL}
Auditors.
Adelaide, 13th April, 1932.
Chartered Accountants (Aust.).
$
§
%
I
s
r
%
:
%
§
s
§
§
§
s
Complete
Banking
Services
THE widespread organisation of the
National Bank makes its facilities
available throughout the Commonwealth
as well as in all towns of commercial
importance beyond our shores.
A cheque-drawing account with the
Bank enables its owner to take
advantage of the complete services pro-
vided. Quite a small sum suffices to
open an account, no minimum amount
being required by the Bank. Any surplus
—small or large—not required for
current needs may be placed on Fixed
Deposit, where it will earn up to 4 per
cent, per annum.
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
330 Branches in Australia
Capital paid up,
£5,000,000
□
Wirft
so
i
•%M/r
clo
e
5B«=:
>Swf**V?r a
&
(£k
%
Wl
“Cyclone” Ring-Lock Fencing REMAINS stock-
proof WITHOUT MAINTENANCE. Practically
everlasting. Cannot sag or stretch. The heavy
wire uprights are held immovable and rigid by the
famous “Ring-Lock.”
MATERIAL FOR A “CYCLONE” FENCE COSTS
THE SAME AS FOR THE WIRE AND DROPPER
FENCE. LABOR COSTS £8 A MILE LESS!—
for “Cyclone” is erected in a little more than half
the time! “Cyclone” Ring-Lock Fencing is sold
in 5-chain rolls.
>=
CYCLONE FENCE & GATE C?P"L T °
24 JAMIESON STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
)=
<8>
POST
COUPON
4L
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced
Catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal Gates and Ring-Lock Fences and
comparison of costs.
Name , . ,, ... . ...
- - B. 4/5/’32


LISTEN
J>c3
H*
r EX ACC
MOTOR
OIL
mHMP
y : ;, :^pgas^^aaafi^
S
itltl
!■■:■
*\ i
c*
J®B
: x.
x.
mm
\
ww/,. AIX %, ,.: '•: , \
S. V
im
CX i
;\_v
w
i
S'
Sr:
m
RUN YOUR CAR
IN TO-DAY-
Run your car In to-day ! Have the sump drained
and re-filled with the new, golden “ Crack-proof ”
Texaco Motor Oil. Friction dwindles away before
it . ... wax and carbon troubles pass it by. It does
not “crack” even under the highest engine
temperatures and lasts longer at higher efficiency.
It is a greater protection for your car and a
greater saving for your pocket.
“Crack-proof” flows freely under all weather
conditions. Your motor is so contented and
quiet that you can almost forget it between each
fill of oil. Better than this it develops new life,
new power. Any motor is a better motor with
“Crack-proof” Texaco. For greater oil mileage
fill up at the Texaco Red Star with the Green T.
“A Quiet Engine is a Contented Engine ”
THE TEXAS COMPANY (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
TEXACO
MOTOR OIL
“crack-? roo f- longer-l Asti ng
28.602
TEXACO MOTOR SPIRIT
musf be good to have grown so fast


e
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILL
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to:—
PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. Of AUSTRALIA LTD.
Oh<i i rinafi of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan. M.Ij.C. ' Managing Director: 11. Fell.
Heart Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
ss. hi.S.V. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ 00-operative' Grain Insurance and . •
IMPROVE YOUR LAND.
AGRICULTURAL LIME
“APPLIM” BRAND
GOES FURTHER, ACTS QUICKER, COSTS LESS.
“Applim” Agricultural Lime is 95
per cent. Calcium Carbonate. It
is finely pulverised, and can thus
be spread economically. Being-
readily soluble it reacts quickly.
PRICE IN BAGS (10-ton
lots), FOR, FOOTSCRAY.
25 1-
PER TON
WHAT “APPLIM” DOES
Liberate* potash and phosphates; Decomposes
organic matter; Promotes nitrification;
Corrects soil acidity; Makes clay soil triable;
Tends to bind sandy soil; Stimulates bacterial
activity; Promotes soil fertility.
Thus plant food is made available, the soil is
Sweetened and crops and pastures are vastly improved.
NOTE. —An application of “Applim” before sowing
lucerne or clover practically ‘ ensures a good stand.
Write for technical booklet.
AMMONIA PRODUCTS PTY., LTD.,
LYONS STREET, FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
WHEAT PRICES SINCE 1890.
The N.S.W. “Agricultural Gazette” prints
a table showing the average prices of wheat
on the Sydney market since 1890. It is
very interesting, and growers in all
the wheat-producing States will derive some
comfort from the thought that history may
repeat itself. The last great slump occurred
in 1893. In the year previous to that the
price favored farmers, as it did in 1928,
the last year of our boom ; in fact, it held
up, as in our time, during the first depres-
sion year. Then it fell heavily. There was
somewhat of a recovery in the third depres-
sion year (we have witnessed a correspond-
ing movement) : then came three years of
good prices. May they come again! The
figures have been furnished by the Govern-
ment Statistician ; the prices are per bushel,
of course:—
Average
Price for
Year. Feb. March. Year.
s. cl. s. (1. s. d.
1890.. 86 36 3 .74
1891.. 3 71 3 10 43
1892.'. 4 9 4 9 4 8*
1893.. 3 6* 30 36*
1894.. 211 28 29*
1890.. 27 27 34
1896.. 4 4* 45 4 34
1897.. 48 46* 4 5f
1898. . 4 0 4 0 3 8
1899.. 2 7* 29 2/ 9
1900.. 29 28 28*
1901.. 27 27 28
1902.. 3 2 3 2f 4 5
1903.. 5 US 5 94 5 If
190 4.. 3 0 * 8 03 3 2
1905.. 3 4.'. 3 3:1 3 5
1906.. 3 If 3 2i 3 3*
1907.. 3 05 3 1* 3 10
1908.. 44 4 5* 4 3*
1909.. . 4 Of 4 6* 4 9
1910.. 4 If 4 1 310
1911.. 3 7| 85 36
1912.. 3 94 38* 41
1913.. 3 61 37 3 24
1914.. 38 3 94 4 1*
1915.. 5 6 5 6 5 5
1916.. 5 If 5 Of 410
1917. . ’4 9 4 9 4 9
1918.. 4 9 4 9 4 9
1919.. 5 0 50 5 1*
1920.. 8 5 8 10 8 74
1921.. 9 0 9 0 8 8
1922.. 52 5 11 58
1923. . 5 8 5 7 5 3*
1924.. 47 47 55
1925.. 6 9* 6 4 6 24
1926.. 6 0 5 9 6 2
1927.. 5 1* 5 Of 5 5
1928.. 52 55 5 14
1929.. 48 48 4 64
1930.. ' 4 8* 45 3 104
1931.. 2 If 2 If 2 4*
In the average price for 1951. December is
not reckoned in.
PALESTINE OATS.
There have been references in the M.O.L.
Page to high yields, obtained in Westralia
by growers of Palestine oats. Allan R. Cal-
laghan discusses this variety, with others,
in a series of articles he is contributing to
the N.S.W. “Agricultural Gazette.” Says
Mr. Callaghan : “Palestine is a Syrian
variety which was introduced into Victoria
by Dr. Cherry. Although in general grain
character remarkably like Algerian, it is
readily distinguished from the latter in early
growth. Its semi-erect habit, moderate stool-
ing ability (24 to 3), medium-broad to broad
foliage and very hairy leaf-margins are all
features which contrast with their parallels
in Algerian. The very short straw of Pales-
tine is medium-coarse, but not very strong;
the straw on maturity may show a tinge of
purple. Three grains are normally present
in all spikelets, and the first and second of
these invariably bear weak awns.
“This oat is very early-maturing, has high-
yielding ability, and is admirably suited to
hot, dry conditions, but its very short straw
militates against its popularity. Further-
more, it suffers more than any of our lead-
ing varieties from stem rust. It is also
highly susceptible to crown rust and loose
smut. As a grazing type it is practically
useless, completely lacking recovery power.
On areas where excessive growth of straw
is common, Palestine may prove particularly
suitable.”
A WELL-MANAGED FARM.
What can be done by good management
on an irrigated farm is shown in the judges’
report on a Swan Hill (Vic.) competition
in which S. H. Masters was first. Mr.
Masters farms 53 acres and goes in only
for high-grade stock. His herd was
placed on top by the Vic. United Cow-testing
Association in the 1930-31 season. One of
his cows gave 7081 b. of butterfat; another
yielded 6071 b.
The farm is now carrying 25 cows, 1-J
head of young stock. 10 pigs, poultry and
three horses. It is laid down mostly in
lucerne, of which there are 20 acres in good
condition. Four acres are in mixed pasture
and four acres under fallow. The rest is
mostly old lucerne land reverting to pasture;
perennial rye grass is spreading as a volun-
teer. Last, but not least, this progressive
farmer has three acres of fruit trees.
SPELLING STRAWBERRY.
“L.P.": Comments by “R.E.” and
“Mclron” (B. 13/4/’32) on the lowa con-
clusions are scarcely apropos to the state-
ment that a cow milked from calving to
calving may drop 50 per cent, in her butter
yield during the next lactation period. Your
first correspondent asked for practical experi-
ences. Here’s mine.
Last year my Jersey cow, which Avas
hand-fed at Pennant Hills (N.S.W.), failed
to dry off as she approached her time. I
tried irregular milking, cutting down her
rations and curtailing her drinking supply
in the hot weather. The flow diminished,
but not sufficiently to obviate fear of in-
flammation if I turned her out. I concluded
that regular feeding and milking would do
the cow less harm than the treatment she
was getting. Experienced men assured me
that unless I forced her to take a spell,
she would be quarts under her normal yield
when she came in, and would soon go dry.
Fourteen quarts for as many weeks as she
should have been months on 16 quarts was
the result of having no spell. Further, the
cow’s yield is now declining steeply, so that
10 weeks after calving, and being still empty,
she is down to a daily 10 quarts, and giving
every indication of taking prematurely the
holiday she refused altogether last year. In
this case the 50 per cent, drop in butter pro-
duction during the lactation period is certain.
PRIME BEEF FROM WERRIBEE.
“W.D.Mc.” : The metropolitan (Vic.) sew-
age farm, the best property in Australia as
a baby-beef proposition, is losing a golden
opportunity of advertising the _ Common-
wealth overseas by sending its prime steers
and vealers to the Melbourne market only.
This farm is in the unique position of being
able to fatten all the year round, wet or
dry, and to any age or weight desired. So
it can keep up a regular supply, which
is most desirable when shipping to overseas
markets. On Dec. 31 it had 11,000 head of
cattle, and is placing 200 or more on the
market every week. Thus it is losing at
a modest computation £lO,OOO a year in
exchange. Not only this : by exporting its
prime product it would supply the answer
to the Argentinos, who say Australia can
only fatten old bullocks which are not
wanted on the English market.
This farm buys thousands of stores every
year to fatten. At present local prices it
must be showing a very small profit, if not
a loss, on its transactions. It has three
splendid studs of beef cattle: Shorthorns,
Herefords and Polled Angus. If it went in
for breeding on a large scale it would not
require stores, as the progeny would be fat
from birth till they were killed. And by
keeping the best heifers it would within no
long time have the largest herds of pure
and nearly-pure cattle in the Commonwealth.
By taking 200 head off the meat market every
week the management would be doing fat-
teners in the States a good turn. By ship-
ping its prime _ product it would give Aus-
tralia an advertisement which she badly needs.
These remarks are prompted by seeing
recently a splendid consignment from the
farm being .sold at Newmarket for an aver-
age price of about £lO per head. There
were 200 head: all young and prime as grass
could make them.
THE TOLL OF MAMMITIS.
“Azac” : There are not many dairy herds
in N. S. Wales that are entirely free of mam-
mitis. It is questionable whether any other
disease is as widespread or takes such a
heavy toll of the dairying industry. It has
been estimated that the average dairy-farmer
could cut his costs 33 p.c. if he could eradi-
cate mammitis from his herd.
There are numerous forms of the disease,
which is really an inflammation of the
udder, but the most prevalent form is what
is known as contagious mammitis. The
healthy cow contracts the disease by having
her udder infected with the disease germ,
perhaps per medium of the hands of a
milker, or it may have been transmitted
from a diseased to a healthy animal by dirty
milking-machines. Although not usual, some
cows pick up the germ by the udder coming
in contact with pastures contaminated by
affected animals. The ultimate effect of the
disease is to cause the structure of the udder
to change so that it assumes a hard, knotty
feel, and the milk flow stops, or, at best., all
that can be got from the udder is a stringy
or pus-like discharge. Preventive inocula-
tion seems to offer greatest promise of reliev.-
ing the industry of this huge economic loss,
and the pity is that the authorities cannot
see their way clear to cheapen inoculation,
which to-day runs into 3s. per cow, using
the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories’
inoculum. If the job is done by a local
veterinarian it runs out about twice as dear.
Of course, immediately it is discovered a
cow has contracted the disease she should
be isolated and milked separately and the
milk destroyed. This will guard against
the trouble spreading to the herd. Curative
treatment is never very satisfactory, although
you can at times effect a cure. The main
object is to get the udder functioning again.
The pus-like secretion that forms in the
udder in place of the milk should be re-
moved as often as possible. To keep the
cow’s system in order during treatment
drench her with lib. Epsom salts and 2oz.
ground ginger in a quart of warm Water.
Then bathe the udder in warm water and
massage it for 10 or 12 minutes, after which
she should be milked out, but not too vigor-
ously. Repeat this treatment a number of
times each day. It should not take long
to decide whether the cow r is responding to
the treatment; in other words, whether she
is worth persevering with.
HINTS FOR LAMB-MARKING.
“Valeria”: See that the ear-pliers and
knives are in good order and sterilised;
often they are not. Choose frosty, damp
weather for the job; dust helps to convey
tetanus germs. Many owners erect temporary
yards, but this is unnecessary if rails and
posts of the marking-pen are thoroughly dis-
infected. My yards are 50 years old and
I newer have any losses. If possible, avoid
marking after 3.30 p.m. On no account
sharpen a knife on your boot. A whetstone
is better and is hygienic. Muster the flock
in quietly. Dogging, shouting, waving bushes
and whip-cracking excite the lambs and
cause them to break. Keep the musterers on
the alert; and this is not the time for yarn-
ing. When the lambs break don’t chase
them over the horizon. If left undisturbed
they soon stop and drift back to the main
flock.
Don’t cram too many lambs into the catch-
ing pens. Alive, they may not be worth
much; dead, they’re valueless. Instruct
the catchers to drop the lambs carefully on
their hind legs; a man who persistently
thuds them down should be given another
job. Put on the registered and age marks
properly; it will save your temp r at sub-
sequent draftings. The operator uay either
slit or cut off the point of the scrotum ; the
former is quicker and makes a neater job.
Don’t try to beat the man who says he can
mark 8000 lambs a day. He’s probably a
liar.
Tail the lambs carefully, feeling for the
joint, and leave the tails a uniform length.
Nothing spoils the appearance of a flock
more than uneven docking. When return-
ing to the paddock" keep the head of the flock
back to enable the weaker lambs to keep up.
When put into the paddock hold them for an
hour or so, otherwise the hungry ewes will
wander oft; feeding. Early next morning
give them the once-over to see if any lambs
have stayed behind or strayed back.
SETTLING C. Q. SCRUB LAND.
“C. Q. Coast”: Twelve years’ experience
in wrestling with scrub land on the Central
Queensland coast —the same class of country
extends for about 100 miles north and south
of Rockhampton and 100 miles inland—
prompts me to make a few suggestions for
the benefit of newcomers. If there is no per-
manent surface water, start clearing the
scrub round the site where you think you
will get water by sinking. And get an area
of scrub felled and burned and a crop planted.
April to the end of October is the time
to fall scrub. Undergrowth is first cut down
with a brush-hook, and timber is then felled
on top of it; branches that stand up from a
fallen tree are best lopped down with the
axe to improve the chance of a clean fire.
To secure this you need a clear hot day with
a fair breeze. Light the fire so that it burns
uphill, not down, and light it up every few
yards along the whole of the side from which
the wind is blowing. About midday is the
time to fire. The last of the timber felled
should be down at least three weeks before
burning.
Temporary fences are advisable, but they
must be wallaby-proof. Have posts ready
before you burn off. Hardwood timber is
preferable if it can be got; otherwise scrub
timber will have to be used, but it decays
quickly. If good straining-posts are placed
about every seven chains, light posts or
stakes can be cut from saplings or split
from trees, pointed at one end, and driven
to a depth of a foot to 15in. with a mawl;
space about 12ft. apart. To these supports wire
netting 36in. high, 3in. mesh and 16 or 17
gauge is attached by means of a 12i-gauge
barbed-wire on top. The stakes are bored
with a half-inch bit and the barbed-wire
fastened with stout tie wire (12-gauge plain).
The netting is secured at the bottom by
means of sticks about 3ft. in length inserted
through the bottom meshes about 3ft. to 4ft.
apart, and logs laid upon the sticks parallel
with the netting.
Maize, pumpkins and cotton are the crops
mostly planted for market. Seed of all three
can be planted through a hand-planter, which
costs about 255., among the stumps without
any preparation of the soil. All weeding has
to be done with a hand hoe, but on scrub
land after a good fire weeds are not bad.
Get the crop planted before the first rain
after the fire.
As dairying is the ultimate object on all
these scrub selections it is important to
have Rhodes grass well established with the
first good rain. If this is not done the pad-
dock will be a mass of weeds and tree
suckers within 12 months. Getting scrub
land well grassed right from the start is
the key to success. Broadcast Rhodes grass
seed at the rate of about lib. per acre. Seed
costs from 9d. to Is. 3d. per pound ; after the
first year you can gather your own. The
grass will retard the maize or other crop to
some extent, and if sown very thick may
choke it out; but for the first two or three
years this risk is worth taking, because 30
acres of good grass is necessary to start
dairying. After you have such an area, sow-
ing of Rhodes grass can be delayed till the
maize or other crop is about 6in. high ; but
do not delay too long or you will have a
paddock of rubbish.
A good water supply is vital. In many
districts water can be found at shallow
depths. Contract price to sink and timber
is £2 per foot, and it will cost from £l5 to
£2O for a hand pump, piping and troughing.
An engine or windmill is a good investment;
an engine can be bought for £3O to £45.
If you are on your block by June, you will
be able to start dairying about the third
spring, provided you have been careful to
get a good stand of grass. Buy about 12
good milking cows. It is fatal to overstock.
Keep falling an ai’ea of scrub each year.
Two boasts to the acre is safe on good
Rhodes grass, and it is better to sell the
young stock, except heifers, at any price
father than overload your grass.
REWORKING FRUIT TREES.
“Tas”: “Erid Eastene’s” suggestions (B.
30/3/’32) are sound in the main ; but a still
better method of reworking apple- or pear-
trees has been evolved in Tasmania. The
trees are poled, or stripped, of all spurs and
lateral growth in the spring, and scions of
the desired variety are inserted at intervals
of 6in. to Sin. along the length of the
branches. This is accomplished by making
a T cut and lifting the bark as in budding.
Cut a face on the scion, as though prepar-
ing for a splice graft, and insert under the
bark. Fix in position with a copper tack;
tying with string or raffia is waste of time.
Complete the job by covering the wound
with melted wax, applied with a paint-brush.
If the scions are cut fairly long, say, five
or six buds, almost a full crop may be ex-
pected the second season after grafting. Any
lateral growths forced out from the stock
should be removed by pulling out, with heel
attached, when 4in. or sin. long; don’t cut
these off, or they will only grow again.
Admittedly the system is one that entails
a good bit of work, and it is not possible for
ono man to do many trees each season. On
the other hand only one crop is lost, whereas
by the old and barbarous method of com-
pletely delieading and inserting only a few
scions, it may easily be 10 years before the
tree attains its original size, or, what is
more likely, it may bo a total loss through
“die-back” inside, a couple of years.
Hundreds of trees in the Speck have been
worked over to better varieties by the strip-
ping and grafting method, and so far not
one case of “die-back” has been reported.
When a number of trees are to be reworked
it is a good plan to graft as many as pos-
sible in the spring, and strip others so that
they may shoot and be ready for .budding
in the summer.
A SUCCESSFUL TOMATO-GROWER’S
METHODS.
“Hortus”: Now that the season is over in
most N.S.W. districts, it might be profitable
to review the methods' and records of success-
ful tomato-growers. For example, those of
the winner of the field competition organ-
ised by the associations in the Central North
Coast district,, E. L. Snodgrass, of Boam-
bee. Mr. Snodgrass was awarded 944 points
out of a possible 100, the scale" being:
Yield. 50; quality, 20; purity of type, 10:
freedom from disease, 10; cultivation
methods. 10. The area entered was an acre
of the Bonny Best variety, grown on stakes
(Continued on page 26.)


cy
CO
If your width is hard to
fit
Then try this Abbey Shoe. . . .
all full and half sizes are avail-
able in four widths, narrow,
medium, wide and extra wide.
It gives made-to-measure com-
fort. And it’s built in a special
way.... on a last shaped to
avoid strain over the instep arch.
The upper is of supple black
velour calf. . . .the sole of the
toughest Australian leather.
ORDER BY POST.
State whether you need narrow,
medium, wide or extra-wide fitting,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or
a handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
PPL 279
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
“EOTHEN”
è
SNIAVd
128 East Terrace
M
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
GARAGE
Inclusive Tariff. £4-44) j
• Central 528
Mrs. PARKER
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
w
THINK OP
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*
If you hav*
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street* Sydney.
IDEAL
for the
Advertiser
Sunday is a day of leisure in West-
ern Australia, when the great open
spaces make an appeal to thousands
of people. They have time to read a
paper, and for 34 years thousands of
people have each week selected the
Perth
for Sunday reading. The man on the
land declares that it amply fulfils his
requirements for the news of the
week.
Shrewd advertisers desiring to
cover the valuable Western market
have consistently advertised in the
big pink Sunday paper. For results
there is 'nothing like it.
TRY IT FOR 1932.
Monarch
Craig kAitken
’ll. Wholesale
i Distributors
I Sudneu N S 1
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance.
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH
6 Volts 13 Plates
. Mso obtainable
fju o |ts 15 Plates
«Jolts 9
prices
onstruction
Lower Price
,r Jhe Quid Starting
START
ItS a"
WHe**
The Exide 44 Battery makes dependable starting within
the reach of all. Only the facilities of “The World’s Larg-
est Manufacturers of Storage Batteries for Every Purpose’’
could produce such quality at such a low price This bat-
tery, like all Exidcs, has exceptional cold-weather
starting ability. Of equal importance, it retains its
original power during its long useful life. Laboratory
t ests show that the Exide “44” retains its rated capacity
tor 91% of its long life. Such stamina and endurance
is available m no other battery at the price of the “44.”
Its performance is insurance against starting failure—the
cost of recharge and rentals—inconvenience and delays on
road. Its true economy is measured not only in long
me but also m the service which it renders during its life
—namely dependable starting.
For dependable starting at low first cost Exide recom-
mends the Exide “44” Battery.
fcciic 44
When it's an txth — You START
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane—Exide Battery Service
(Q.). Ltd. ; Sydney—Exide Battery Service (Gibson, Battle
and Co., Ltd.) ; Melbourne —A. P. Sutherland ; Adelaide
Unbehaun and Johnstone, Ltd. ; Perth—M. J. Bateman, Ltd.;
Hobart—Medhurst and Sons Pty., Ltd.
F22
and pruned to a single stem. Soil was a
clay loam, once cropped the previous season
to tomatoes.
First ploughing was carried out in May
to a depth of about five inches, and the plot
was limed and harrowed. Two additional
ploughings and three harrowings were given
before the plants were set out. Seed was
sown in May and June and the young plants
transplanted into boxes and raised under
cover. Whilst in the seed frames regular
sprayings of Bordeaux mixture and nicotine
sulphate were given. Transplanting in the
field took place at the end of July and early
in August, in rows about 4ft. apart and the
plants 2ft. apart in the row.
Before planting the land was fertilised
with a mixture of super, and blood and bone
at the rate of 13cwt. per acre, and during
the growing period, after the first fruit had
set, 601 b. of sulphate of ammonia was applied.
Up to the final judging five dustings were
given with 50 parts of arsenate of lead, 8
parts of copper carbonate and 40 parts of
sulphur. The yield was 671 half-cases. The
first consignment was forwarded to Sydney
market on October 15.
BREEDING WILD DUCKS.
“E.S.S.” : I have often wondered why coun-
try poultry-farmers don’t give more attention
to the breeding of Australian ducks and
geese. There are many handsome ducks, and
good table birds, among the wild tribe. They
are easily tamed, and are good layers. Those
chiefly marketed are the grey (black) duck
and the so-called wood duck (maned goose).
The latter is esteemed above most game
birds, and is usually high-priced. Several
others are excellent for table purposes, but
occur only in small numbers, except in the
far interior, such as the pink-eared duck,
blue-billed duck, blue-winged shoveller, white-
eyed duck, freckled duck, the teals and the
whistling ducks. Most of these are prolific
breeders, and if the eggs are obtained from
the swamps and hatched under a hen, the
natural shyness of the first broods soon
disappears. It is necessary, however, to clip
the wings until the different breeds have
become domesticated. It would be interest-
ing to experiment by crossing with the
common domestic ducks —if that can be
done. They never cross in the wild state.
Then there are the magpie goose, Cape
Barren goose, and the pygmy geese. Though
the first-named frequents the sea coasts it
goes far inland to breed, and has been domes-
ticated at many inland places. It takes
readily to the farmyard, but is rather pugna-
cious, squabbling with the other fowls, and
has generally to be kept apart. But it is
a fine big bird, worthy of preservation. So' is
the Cape Barren goose, which once frequented
the eastern swamps in large flocks and was
so much sought by game-hunters that one
is now rarely seen in those haunts. They
breed in large numbers in the northern and
central lagoons and swamps, and eggs would
now have to be obtained from these places.
No doubt clutches from a stud- farm would
find a ready sale among lovers of “wild
goose,” for the bird is prized as highly by
pot-hunters as the plain turkey is on inland
plains.
The pygmy geese are small but among
the best of table birds, and have handsome
glossy plumage. They rank with the maned
goose, and, like it, thrive and breed readily
in captivity. All the geese in the wild state
procure much of their food out of water,
feeding on grass and herbage, so their upkeep
would cost little on the farm.
The pygmy, magpie and maned geese perch
in trees; so do the whistling ducks; and
ducks and geese that will roost are an advan-
tage over the other sort, which make a
trampled mess at night where they are
shut up.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What charges does the Egg Board
make against the poultry-farmer for the
marketing of his produce in N.S.W.? (2)
What is the carriage per ease of eggs to the
board's floors and return of empty case in
suburban area? (3) At what age is a cock-
erel termed a griller? (4) Weights of eggs
in first, second and pullet grades? —9279.
(1) Six per cent, of proceeds of sale, plus
Id. per dozen pool deduction on all eggs
produced within the area under the board’s
control. (2) Carriage by road within the
suburban area is usually per dozen. If
eggs are consigned by rail to Darling Harbor
rail freight must be paid. An additional
charge of 3d. per case of 30 dozen, of any
size, is made for transport from Darling Har-
bor to the board’s depot. Cases are returned
to farm by road free. If returned by rail
the Railway Department has a consignment
fee of 4d. —a flat rate. The board makes no
charge for taking cases to railway station.
(3) At from about 9 to 12 weeks old, when
it weighs from 21b. to 31b., according to
breed. (4) First grade, not less than ljoz.
each, with average weight of not less than
240 z. to the dozen, and which are not dirty,
thin or weak shelled; second grade, not less
than each and which are not dirty,
thin or weak shelled, and eggs which would
conform to the standard of first grade
except for being dirty, thin or weak-shelled ;
pullet grade, not more than nor less
than lloz., or dirty, thin or weak-shelled
eggs less than Ifoz. but not less than l|oz.
(1) What demand is there in Australia
for tung oil? (2) Do you advise planting
trees? (3) What profit can be expected per
acre?— 93l7.
(1) Imports each year approximate
140,000 gallons, valued at £40,000. (2) and
(3) .Can’t advise. Get Tung Oil Bulletin
from Technological Museum, Sydney; Is.
Id. posted.
(1) How to remove hair from kangaroo-
skins by lime liquor or with the aid of
sodium sulphide? (2) Textbook that covers
processes? —9ls2.
(1) The skins are soaked in clean water
for 24 hours. During this time, if the water
becomes dirty, renew with clean water, also
scrape the flesh off the skins. Make up a
lime liquor by adding 51b. of lime per 10
gallons of water. Agitate the lime liquor
and place the skins in it before the undis-
solved lime settles. Lift the skins out to
drain and place them back, twice each day.
The hair should be removed with a scraper
at the end of six days. For sodium sulphide
method use lib. lirne and |lb. sodium sul-
phide per 10 gallons of water. This solu-
tion will take the hair off skins after one
to two days’ exposure. The skins are well
washed after unhairing before they go to
the tan liquors. The volume of lime liquor
used should be sufficient to cover the skins.
(2) “Practical Feather Manufacture,” by
H. G. Crockett.
(1) How to cement the inside of a 600 gal.
corrugated iron tank? (2) Approximate
quantity of cement requiredt —9ll6.
(1) Clean tank inside and out. Wrap
it inside and out with chicken wire of
mesh, punching holes through the tank here
and there and tying the mesh together
through the tank with tie wire. Mix
a mortar of 1 part cement to 2 parts
sand to a consistency not too sloppy. Coat
tank with this inside and out, commenc-
ing at the bottom first in thicknesses of sin.
Just when the first coat has set, score it in
preparation for the second coat which should
also be of £in. thickness. (2) Eight paper
bags of cement and 16 cubic feet of sand.
Booklet fully describing process can be
obtained from Australian Cement Manufac-
turers’ Association, 14 Spring-street, Sydney.
How to grow strawberries in a barrel ? —
9300.
Holes are cut in the sides of the barrel
lin. in diameter and about 6in. apart in rows
one above the other, the rows being about 6in.
apart. The holes in the adjoining rows arc
inter-spaced. Holes are also bored in the
bottom of the barrel and a layer of stones or
broken earthenware pots placed over them
to allow for drainage. Loam mixed with
rotted leaves or rotted farmyard manure
should be mixed with the soil. A very
small quantity of slow-acting fertiliser, such
as bonedust or blood and bone, might also
be mixed with the soil.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.,
“Valerin”: Good autumn rains give pro-
mise of a record lambing in N. S. Wales,
but there may be a recurrence of entero-
toxaemia, which caused heavy losses last
season. It is up to the Stock Branch to
issue particulars of preventive measures
(there seems to be no cure for it) ; Bulle-
tin contributors might also help. My own
experience is that cross-weaning the lambs
minimised losses, and it has the advantage
of reducing their condition without causing
them to fret unduly, as they would if segre-
gated.
“Quibra”: For preventing rust on keys,
small tools, fish-hooks and so on, shave up
three or four candles, mix in half a cup of
crude vaseline, and melt well together in
an old iron pot. For use, melt and keep
on heating until it bubbles gently, dip in
the (cleaned) articles on a wire hook or in
a bit of wire gauze, and let them drain back.
The coating will keep them rustless for years
if not handled too much, and is easy to re-
apply. A very thin smear of mercurial
(“blue”) ointment wiped over with a dry
rag is another excellent rusLpreventer.
“Bullswool” : Now is the time to give the
roofs a look-over. Most coverings will lift a
little with the heat of summer and nails
and screws will draw. Tighten them again,
plugging the holes with a bit of pine, if
needed. If you make a new hole leave the
old screw and 'washer in, for the dummy will
turn the water. Leaks can be soldered or
dabbed with paint and calico. Ends of
roofs are the weakest spots; eave ends
should have batten and rafter bolted together
for safety.
“Pine Scrub” : May I put in a word for
the Hereford? In a recent Smithfield com-
petition this breed gained first place
amongst all breeds for a pen of nine steers
under 15 months; they won the points for
average weight, dressing 9011 b., and for
highest average gain per day—2.43lb. There
is no better forager in bad seasons and in
rough country. Herefords mature early,
fatten quickly and the beef is first quality.
They are prepotent, and crossed with nonde-
script cows a Hereford bull will get you
nearly 100 per cent. Hereford-type calves,
which will always command keen competi-
tion in saleyards.
“Kiama”: A sure-grip holder that will
keep Strawberry’s tail out of the milk. Take
a pieee of board measuring 6in. x 2Jin. x
fin. Remove a wedge-shaped portion from
surface at one end so that when board is
screwed to wall cow’s tail can be pulled be-
tween board and wall.
“Pat”: It pays to have a supply of wood,
cut into suitable lengths, for the stove, and
a good receptacle is an old 2000 gal. tank. Cut
out one end, then drive four stakes into the
ground the width *f the tank apart, and
put down a couple of 6in. sticks to prevent
the iron from rest’ ~g on the ground and rust-
ing. Now lay t_uiK on its side between up-
rights and resting on sleepers. The open
end should be faced away from rain-bringing
winds.
“Yarri”: If you want to cut a wire and
haven’t, got a file (which is often the case
when you find a bit of repairing to do in a
distant fence), saw round the wire with
the blade of your pocket-knife, and it will
then break easily. Another way. when riding,
is to place the wire on the edge of your
stirrup-iron, and tap it either with a stone
or with the other stirrup-iron.
“Dimon”: An old bush preventive where
white anta are bad is a handful of common
salt spread round a post about 3in. below
the surface of the ground. If the post is
in a building, water is added, so that the
salt will impregnate the surface of the soil
and wood.
“Tanta Tyga”: Sharpening plough-discs
(B. 30/3/’32) ? My plan is to remove discs
from plough, place them, hollowed side up-
permost, on an anvil or a very heavy pi ec n
of iron, and with a heavy hammer—prefer-
ably with a rounded face —belt the edge until
it is even with the other side ; in other words,
until the worn edge is obliterated. If the
edge is even turned outwards it will give a
better grip for hard ground. The wear of
the disc is wholly on the outer edge.
“Heather”: This is the way a Tiehborne
(N.S.W.) farmer —H. Shalvey—-has dealt
with the ravages of mice in his haystacks. He
dug a shallow trench a couple of feet wide
around the stacks, filled it with water, and
covered it with a layer of dry chaff just
before nightfall. In three nights nearly 3000
mice found a watery grave. One night’s
catch totalled upwards of 900.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All yon have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Digger, Parkes district (N.S.W.), with fattening
property, unable to purchase sheep, requires assist-
ance in stocking with 1500 ewes, due to lamb, or
with lambs at f00t.—9518.
Gardener, married, winner of 40 first prizes,
flowers and vegetables, wants employment. Refs.
—9527.
Young man, teacher, desires board and lodging in
return for few hours’ services daily; tutor, secretary
or general assistance. In or near Sydney preferred.
—9499.
Ex-Digger, Sydney,, wants employment, any capa-
city. Customs exp. Refs. —9491.
Station book- and store-keeper, Q’land (30), quali-
fied accountant, ride, type, knowledge auto and
stationary engines, seeks employment. Refs.—947s.
Middle-aged woman (N.S.W.), good plain cook,
economical manager, wants position as housekeeper,
bachelors, station or men’s quarters, anywhere. Refs.
—9535.
Accountant-secretary (38) seeks management of
country branch in Vic. —9536.
To buy copies of “Art and Life” magazine, pub-
lished by Lockwood, U.S.A. ; also “The American
Art Student.”—9s46.
To buy 1925 issue the “Stonehurst Magazine”
containing article on the Duchess of Norfolk; also
“Action Gazette,” February 23, 1923 ; the “Gentle-
man’s Magazine” and Earl Marshall's second book.
—9515.
To buy “Miles’s Elocutionist,” also words of “How
Bill Adams Won the Battle of Waterloo.”—9s72.
Words of verse containing line: “The milking and
the feeding on a flaming dairy farm.” —9573.
Words of verse beginning “Beneath the vast illi-
mitable spaces where God has set His planets in
array.”—94B4.
Words of verse beginning “This is the ‘Age’ that
Syme built.”—94Bs.
Words of the recitation “Bill Jinks and Binks.”
—9532.
Words of the bush song the chorus of which is:
“We all hopped in and grabbed a gin and danced
a wild corroboree. ”—9554.
Whereabouts of Percy Frederick Russell, age 66,
prospector, native of London, last heard of in
Sydney in 1928. Has been in New Guinea and may
be in N, Q’land.—9s63.
Information Sought.
How to catch fresh-water mullet in deep
waterholes in Queensland rivers? —9288.
A light line attached to a rod, with a
small float and a fly hook, is used, the bait
being dough, white grub or moss. The
use of explosives for the capture of any kind
of fish or of nets for fresh-water fish is
illegal.
(1) Value of first aerial post stamp, Eng-
land to Australia (Ross Smith, 1919) f (2)
How to dispose of it?— 94l4.
(1) According to Ackland’s catalogue,
entire envelope with stamp £5O; second-
class specimens, £25 to £3O; stamp, used,
hut not on envelope, £2O; stamp, unused,
with full marginal paper, £lOO. Only 12
copies are known to exist. (2) Submit to
C. F. Laseron, 19 Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
for auction, stating reserve price.
(1) I have read in the daily press that.
155,000 people in Vic. out of a population of
1,800,000 pay direct taxation. In what way
do the balance of the adult population con-
tribute to financing this State? (2) Do em-
ployees earning small salaries still have to
place stamps on wage-book? Is this con-
sidered indirect taxation? (3) What is the
minimum taxable income in Vic.? (4) Is
a systematic effort being made to detect
people who are dodging direct taxation? (5)
Is there any record of the adult population
of Vie. ?— 9174.
(1) The position has been altered during
the last two or three years by the unem-
ployment relief tax. About 600,000 people
now have to lodge returns and pay direct
taxation. Entertainments tax, the betting
tax, stamp duties, motor taxes and liquor
taxes amounted to £2,721,000 in 1929-30.
(2) The nlinimum wage liable to wages
stamp tax is £1 per week. This is regarded
as a direct tax. (3) A Vic. resident ,is
liable to lodge an income-tax return where
the income is in excess of £5O p.a. (4) Yes.
(5) Approximately 1,100,000 people are
between 15 and 65 years of age.
How to prepare a snakeskin for belt-
making?.—9s23.
Soak skin in water for two days, then
place in solution of 31b. slacked lime to 10
gallons of water. Handle skins each day
until scales can be scraped off the skin.
Wash w r ell and scrape off all loose flesh.
Tan in a jar, using weak clean wattle-bark
liquid obtained from the bark with cold
water. Wash after tanning. After tanning
lay skin out smooth and flat on a board
and give it a light coat of oil, then allow to
dry. If skin receives too much oil reduce
by immersing 10 minutes in petrol. To
finish give skin a coat of thick starch solu-
tion, and iron with ordinary domestic iron
on the scale side.
I am an executor and trustee of a small
estate. What are my duties, and what should
I pay out in legal fees?— 94l6.
Generally speaking, your duty i.s to bury
the testator, protect his property and draw
up a schedule of it, then call at the Pro-
bate Departrpeht, Supreme Court House,
Elizabeth-street, and get < instructions with
regard to taking out probate. Insert in
newspapers notice to creditors, see to any
necessary realisations and gather in money
due. Then pay debts and legacies, attend to
any trust under the will and any bequests
of residue of the estate. Death duty and
the stamp duty payable on transfer of real
estate depend on value. File accounts at
end of 12 months.
(1) How many telephones are there in
Australia per head of population and how
do we compare with other countries in this
respect? (2) How many miles of wire per
’phone? —93B9.
Australia now occupies sixth place with
80.8 telephones per 1000 of population. (2)
4.9 miles, as compared with 3.5 miles in the
U.S.A., 3.5 miles in M.L. and 2.9 miles in
Canada.
Can yon quote an authoritative ruling on
the difference between talent and genius?
—9400. , „
Dr. Henry Bradley in the Oxford Eng-
lish Dictionary defines genius as the higher
of the two, as creative and original, and as
achieving its results by instinctive percep-
tion and spontaneous activity rather than
by processes which admit of being distinctly
analysed.
What did Wagner bring to opera that was
newt —939o. .
In essence, very little, save his individual
style. His ideal' of a music-drama—he re-
jected the term opera—was originated by
the shapers of Greek tragedy, and restated
before his time by Peri and after that by
Gluck. His gift to the art is that he brought
the full force of a powerful personality,
allied to great literary and musical genius,
to bear against the convention that the
music was the first consideration; it must
be the handmaid of the libretto. Rhyth-
mical arias (though he wrote a good many
himself in works antedating “The Ring”)
must yield place to purely declamatory
music. Poetry, music, scenery and action are
given equal importance. The assignment of a
leitmotiv to each important character or con-
ception, though not new, is used in his works
with magnificent dramatic effect. As the
attainment of his ideal almost imperatively
involves the combination of librettist, stage
producer and co'mposer —all geniuses—in one
person, further great development of the
music-drama on Wagnerian lines must wait
the appearance of another Wagner.
In what years were the Great Public
Schools of Sydney (excepting Sydney High
School) opened?— 937B.
The King’s School was opened in January,
1832; Sydney Grammar School on August 3.
1857; Newington College in 1863; Sydney
Church of England Grammar School in July,
1889; Scots’ College in 1893; St. Ignatius’s
College, Riverview, in 1889; and St. Joseph’s
College in 1882.
(1) What is the meaning of the expres-
sion “ values” as used in art and philosophy?
(2) In his book “The Marriage of Loti”
Pierre Loti uses the word “Maori” to de-
scribe the people and the language of Poly-
nesians other than those in Maoriland. Is
this correct ? —9373.
(1) “Values” in any jargon involves a
comparative assessment of importances. In
discussing a painting the term may be
applied to gradations of light and shade or
to the emphasis or otherwise placed on any
particular feature. In philosophy the prin-
cipal values talked about are ethical ones.
(2) The Maoris are ethnologically Poly-
nesians, but the name Maori properly be-
longs only to the race which made New
Zealand its home.
What allowance for Federal Ministers',
members of the House of Reps, and Senators
was provided for in the Commonwealth Con-
stitution? When wei'e salaries subsequently
increased, and by how much? To what
extent were salaries of Federal members cut
in 19307—9739.
Under Section 66 of the Constitution the
allowance foT salaries of Ministers is a sum
not exceeding £12,000, subject to amendment
by Parliament. This was altered in 1915-
1916, when the Minister of the Navy was
given separate Cabinet rank. Allowances to
Senators and members of the House of Repre-
sentatives are provided for in Section 48 of
the Constitution —£400 p.a., also subject to
alteration by Parliament. In 1907 the allow-
ance was raised to £6OO p.a. and in 1920
to £lOOO p.a. By the Income Tax Salaries
Act of 1930 ■ the salaries of Ministers or
presiding officers in either House of Parlia-
ment were subject to a tax of 15 p.c.; of
members of either House, 10 p.c.
What size and shape do you recommend for
a cricket ground? Arc circular grounds in
favor? Should the size be altered according
to the importance of the game, i.e., made
larger for first-grade games? —93Bo.
There is no fixed size for a cricket ground.
Endeavor to obtain a circular ground with
a radius of 70 to 75 yards. Very few grounds
are absolutely circular in shape. There is
no necessity to alter the size of the ground
for various types of matches.
How can I rid a house of small cock-
roaches? Have tried borax and several
patent exterminators. —9254.
. Spray all cracks and crevices once a fort-
night with a mixture of equal parts of kero-
sene and turpentine with a strong dash of
oil of pennyroyal. Sprinkle fresh lime in
all likely haunts, and .set baits made of equal
parts of borax, powdered starch and cocoa.
Don’t leave food where the insects can get
at it.
Our floor is showing tiny round holes
surrounded by a white powder. What is
the remedy ?— 9lll.
Inject into the holes by means of a syringe
a mixture of one part coal-tar creosote and
four parts kerosene. If possible the sur-
faces of the affected boards should also be
flooded with this mixture.
(1) How can I preserve prawns as bait
for line-fishing? (2) How long will they
keep? (3) Will the preservative have any
injurious effects on the fish caught? —92s7.'
(1) Dissolve one heaped teaspoon of salt
mixed with three teaspoons sugar in a
cup of water. Remove the heads, from two
quarts of prawns-and place in this solution
in a fruit-preserving jar fitted with a rubber
ring (2) For a considerable time, (o)
No.
(1) In what part of Essex-street (“Hang-
ing Hill”), Sydney, stood the gallows dur-
ing the early years? (2) Can you tell me
anything about a Professor Llewellyn
Bushell, who toured Australia as a mes-
merist in the ’fifties? —9127.
(1) The gaol in early Sydney was on the
north corner of George and Essex streets.
The scaffold stood on the high ground behind
the gaol. The hill rising up from George-
street was known as “Gallows Hill,” not
“Hanging Hill.” (2) The only note we
can find of him is a newspaper reference
dated February 16, 1861, to a performance
he gave in Hobart. The outcome of it was
that a young man who had been put under
the mesmeric influence, during which many
unnatural feats of strength were performed
by him, died a fortnight later of “brain
fever.”
(1) What is the annual interest on Syd-
ney Harbor Bridge and approaches? (2)
What is the annual cost of maintenance? —
8733. .
(1) Interest and sinking fund, including
£46,000 exchange, £438,437. (2) Other
annual charges, including maintenance,
are estimated at £45,750.
(1) What trees have red bark suitable for
tanning? (2) Does the amount of bark for
tanning differ in each tree, and if so to what
am o-un t ? —0486.
(1) The tanning value of a bark depends
upon the amount of tannin present, and not
on the color. Wattle bark with the highest
tannin content is very light in color when
fresh. The use of an axe will soon indicate
wliat trees have red bark. (2) Varies from
a very small percentage to over 50 p.c.
(1) What persons are eligible to be
admitted as candidates for the Q’land Univer-
sity diploma of journalism? (2) How long
docs the diploma course take to complete? —
9565.
(1) A matriculated student of the Faculty
of Arts or any person who has had at least
three years’ practical experience of journal-
ism. (2) Two years.
(1) How are wax portraits, like those
found by Professor Flinders Petrie at
Ilawara, done? (2) Is it a commonly used
medium ? —9566.
(1) They are usually modelled in parts
and the rest laid on with a brush. The panel
to be painted is kept at an even temperature
and sufficiently warm to take the melted wax
readily. Pure beeswax mixed with color is
used. The canvas is sized but not primed.
Ordinary stiff brushes arc used and the wax
is mixed on a copper palette kept fairly
warm. (2) No, but a group of Edinburgh
painters experimented with satisfactory
results.
(1) What was papyrus? (2) How was
it made? —93os.
(1) A kind of paper in use among the
ancient Egyptians. (2) From a reed grow-
ing from 12ft. to 20ft. high and about Sin.
in diameter. The pithy inside of this was
cut into thin .slices lengthwise, laid on a
slightly sloping slab and beaten with a
mallet. When the sap had drained off these
were brushed over with flour paste and a
fresh set of slices laid on top at right angle
to the first ones and beaten with a mallet
in the same w r ay. Two or three layers were
done in this way and then dried, the finished
product being a luminous brown. paper-like
material, very suitable for painting on.
Cheapest possible way of securing a
divorce in N.S.W.? —9497.
If you can show that your means are such
that you cannot procure legal advice you
can apply to the Registrar in Divorce,
Supreme Court, Sydney, to sue in forma
pauperis. If you have limited means and
the suit will not be contested, there are soli-
citors practising in the Divorce Court vvhoso
fee would probably not exceed seven guineas.
(1) TF«s D. H. Lawrence, the writer, also
a painter? (2) If so, when did he start to
paint? (3) What prompted him to take tip
painting ? —9304.
(1) Yes. (2) Started when he was about 40.
(3) Marie Huxley presented him with a num-
ber of large blank canvases when he was in
Florence. He was repainting the doors and
window-frames of the house and had some
ordinary paint about. With this he experi-
mented on one of the canvases, and so pro-
duced his first picture “The Holy Family.”
This effort gave him so much pleasure that
later he painted a whole series of pictures,
which were shown in London. The show was
closed and the pictures confiscated by the
police.
What is the Commonwealth Government
doing regarding forestry— 9s49.
Reports have been issued in regard to
Papua, New Guinea, the Federal Capital
Territory and Jervis Bay, and a general
policy has been drawn up for the manage-
ment of the forests of these territories. In
a general way minor forest products have
been investigated. The Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research, inquired into the
pulping qualities of Australian hardw’oods
and into the tanning qualities of barks and
other materials. A Forestry Bureau was
instituted in 1925 and the Australian
Forestry School was inaugurated in 1926. A
qualified forester has been appointed to
manage the forests at Canberra and Jervis
Bay. and it is proposed to place the forests
in New Guinea and Papua under scientific
management.
A person residing in M.L. holds Com-
monwealth conversion stock and has all
interest paid into the Commonwealth Savings
Bank at Hobart and held there on deposit.
What taxes is he liable for? The in-
terest on the savings bank account does not
amount to more than £5 per annum. —9287.
If no other income i.s received in or de-
rived from Tasmania there is no liability
for Tasmanian income tax. For Federal
income tax purposes absentees are assess-
able on every £ of income at ordinary pro-
perty rates. Savings bank interest is liable
for ordinary income tax at property rates
plus 10 p.c.
Does Anybody Know?
Biographical details concerning the late
J. T. Cole, breeder of Melba XV?—92B9.
Brief Answers.
A.H.G.: Write J. V. Connolly, hon. sec.,
N.S.W. Gliding Association, Science House, Gloucester
and Essex streets, Sydney... .J.A.0.D.: Would be
better able to aid you if we had the literature to
which you refer... .C.L. : Get in touch with J. B.
Chandler and Co., 45 Adelaide-street, Brisbane....
D.M.: See “Aircraft Engines,” by M. M. Farleigh,
possibly in Melbourne Public Library.... D.L.:
“Baekken” in Norwegian means “the br00k”....
A. : Write Under-Secretary, Agriculture Dept.,
Sydney, for leaflet “Poisoning Green Timber with
Sodium Arsenite”... .L.C.: “My System for Men,”
by Muller (65.), and “The Complete Kano Jiu-jitsu,”
by Hancock and Higashi (Bs. 6d.), Angus and
Robertson... .H.J.H.: “Training for Athletes,” by
Abrahams (Bs. 6d., postage 6d.), and “Athletics,”
by Lowe and Porrit (215., postage Bd.), Angus and
Robertson. . . .D.M.C.: Not obtainable. Manufacturers
of such plants have spent considerable sums in ex-
perimental work and are not likely to reveal details
of their designs. .. .A.H.: The man who wants the
survey made should pay for it. If then it is found
that you are trespassing on your neighbor’s block,
you must be prepared to share the cost of shifting
the dividing fence... .H.M.: There is no Act of the
title you give. Probably you refer to the “Australian
Industries Preservation Act” (1906-30), making it
an offence for any person to enter into a contract
with intent to restrain trade by means of which he
would create unfair competition or establish a
monopoly. There have been some cases under the
Act, but they do not affect what appears to be
your point. .. .C.L.: Under N.S.W. law the furniture
cannot be seized in distraint for rent... .F.G.:
Fencing disputes may by law be referred to the
arbitration of two persons mutually chosen by the
parties. If they do not agree it may be referred to
an umpire appointed by the parties, and his decision
will be final... .R.P.C.: (1) £5 ss. (2) No. (3)
Yes. (4) No more than the published price....
T.R.: Write M. J. Pettigrove, Secretary, Vie. Tax-
payers’ Association, 360 Collins-street, Melbourne....
D.W.: Moffat-Virtue, Ltd., 11 Palmer-street, Sydney,
will give you tuition in installation, upkeep arid
repair of the machine. Course lasts about four weeks
and fee is £5 5s M.0.C.: Write Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Asbestos House, York and Barrack
streets, Sydney... .L.G. A.: Chances are pretty hope-
less. Apply to shipping cos W.N.: “Erratum” is
the correct heading for a single error; “errata” for
more than one. Similarly with addendum and
addenda, corrigendum and corrigenda.... C. 8.: In
mythology, Tempe was a lovely and picturesque
valley in Thessaly, between Mt. Olympus and Mt.
Ossa; the liver Peneus ran through it....J.8.: No
data is available concerning the growth-rate of the
Murray cod... .T.E.G.: See “Airplane Engine Ency-
clopaedia,” by G. D. Angle, and “Modern Aviation
Engines,” by Y. W. Pope, Angus and Robertson. . . .
M. J.C.: Get in touch with Gordon and Gotch,
Barrack-street, Sydney.... R.K.: 1-Ie was private
secretary to Lord Forster in 1920-21, and A.D.C.,
1922-24. .. .C.H.8.: (1) Seven guineas per subject
for the four subjects. (2) Two to three subjects a
year. (3) Uni. does its best to help graduates to
obtain positions, but present conditions have made it
difficult. (4) They are employed by many big businesses.
... .C.L.: The Moratorium Act relieves him from pay-
ment of either principal or interest (two years)
during / its continuance. The mortgagee’s ultimate
recourse is against the property.... J. 8.: In year
ended June, 1931, Newcastle sent 1,737,907 tons of coal
inter-State, to Maoriland and Fiji, and 299,136 tons to
S. America, Asia, East Indies and other foreign
islands. This export trade was worth £2,023,567.
....T.P.C.: These animals won’t take poison readily
and poisoned furs are never of good quality. Try
trapping or shooting... .A.C.: The net should be
steam-tarred, which is a job for an expert....
J.S.P.: Fred Hagen, 184 Phillip-street; J. H.
Smythe, 121 a Castlereagh-street; Fred Everitt, 325 a
George-street—all Sydney.... E.V.N.: Write Vic.
Taxpayers’ Assoc., 360 Collins-street, Melbourne....
R.M.A.: Sovereigns coined at the Royal Mint.
London, or at any of its branches throughout the
Empire, are legal tender in Australia. Gold coins
are legal tender to any amount.... .C.W.8.: Certifi-
cates issued under the International Radiotelegraph
Convention of London (1912) ceased to be valid on
December 31, 1929, after which date it became
necessary to exchange for equivalent certificates issued
under the provisions of the Washington Conference
(1927) . ... J.S.: The mortgagee cannot enforce pay-
ment of interest or exercise his rights against the
mortgaged property without the consent of the Mora-
torium Court... .F.L.: Write to Dairy Inspector,
Dept, of Agriculture, Melbourne, for information re
dairy inspection, to Sec., Health Dept., re meat
inspection.... J.L.: (1) No. (2) Efftee Films, Her
Majesty’s Theatre, Melbourne... .M.V.S.: The medal-
lions seem to be of copper, afterwards silvered,
stamped from a die and reinforced at the back
with tin. There is no evidence of handwork nor
of antiquity. They have little value... .A.M.D.:
Get Annual Report on Income Tax for 1930-31,
obtainable from Govt. Printer, Brisbane, 9d
B. : Write Australian Cement Manufacturers’ Assoc.,
Temple Court, Collins-street, Melbourne, for booklet
giving full instructions. . . .H.R.R.P.: Areas mentioned
are very suitable for dairy-farming. Land prices,
from £5 to £8 per acre unimproved. On living
areas up to 300 acres rates and taxes are reasonable.
Share-farming is restricted, the majority being owner-
dairymen. Farms can be obtained on lease, lessee
purchasing herd. Values of cream are based on
butter content —price last month, lltd. per pound
butter. As to capital required, ascertain from
agents. .. .C.L.: They are entitled to a refund of the
rate charged by the bank on the cheques remitting
to you the interest collected. .. .A.R.: Should not
advise you to consult solicitor; case too weak....
M. 8.: Where interest has been reduced under
the Moratorium Act, the reduction under the
Interest Reduction Act is made from the amount
which would have been payable if the Moratorium
Act had not been enacted, and where the reduction
under it exceeds that under the Interest Reduction
Act the latter Act does not apply so long as the
moratorium exists ... . S.C.: Spray with nicotine
sulphate at the rate of loz. to sgal. of soapy water.
. ...B.B.: Write A. E. Smith and Co., 68 Hunter-
street, Sydney... .W. 8.: Oscar Wilde was born in
Dublin, October 15, 1856 and died in Paris November
30, 1900. He was sentenced to two years’ imprison-
ment with hard labor in May, 1895 T.R.K.:
Directions for making an aquaplane will be found
in “You Can Make It for Camp and Cottage,”
Vol. 2, obtainable from the Supt. of Commerce,
Washington, D.C. (U.S.A.), 10 cents. (2) Queensland
red cedar is suitable... .R.H.H.: Write Arthur Yates
and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney P.AW.: Any
developer will' serve both purposes. You should
find the Burroughs Wellcome, M.Q. or Pyro-Metol
formula suitable. Obtainable in tabloids, any
chemist. .. .D.H.: If the survey and other expenses
were incurred by you preliminary to the sale, you
cannot charge the buyer. There was an agreement
between you as to these expenses you must adhere
to it... .T.M.W.: Nothing official has been stated
regarding the Government’s intentions... .P.J.C.: The
Service Page cannot offer opinions on religious or
political controversies... .F.J.J.: Most publishers
will read handwritten copy, provided it is legible,
though all prefer it typed (Many others mailed.)


Blue North
By
H. Drake-Brockman.
CHAPTER XXIV.
Wherein John Fordyce feels he has
discovered what freedom means.
JOHN still clutched the rail, his mind a
blank. He felt the Sprite roll over.
At the same moment Nguri’s face
peered out of the darkness.
“I tell you stop alonga Missie,” roared
John.
“Dinghy gone, me stay boss,” replied the
native. “Missie got em plenty pfeller.”
Another lurch; right on her beam-ends
lifted the Sprite, a battered, unwilling
victim. Ravenously the seas poured into
her gaping holds. She sank like a plum-
met, and the wind shrieked across the
barren waves in joy.
The water swallowed John; as warm as
blood and as thick, it seemed to the strug-
gling man as it sucked him down to dark-
ness. He had from his youth been a strong
swimmer, and now, with concentrated
energy, he fought to reach the surface be-
fore his lungs, burst and he opened his
mouth to breathe in death.
The wind! He blessed the blast that
whipped across ' his face. He was being
swept forward on the crest of a gigantic
wave. The glimmer of light had failed;
in the dense blackness of night the sea made
sport of him, tossing his throbbing body as
though he were a cork.
Suddenly he felt the clutch of hands.
Again and again came those comforting
touches, like friendly words in an alien
land. He was not alone in this inferno.
Round him swam the boys, strong with the
strength of long days battling against the
sweeping tides of the North; like iron sup-
ports beneath his arms, he felt two sinewy
hands.
Did those . brown men with their un-
canny prescience know where lay. the land?
What was the hour? As a hammer in
John’s mind beat thought of the tide. Had
it turned or. was it still running to the
coast? In the latter case they might yet
be swirled ashore. before they became ex-
hausted; but if these great rollers were
only the slaves of the wind, then they
must be swept out to sea and perish!
Up they rode, to fall in dizzying swoop
after swoop that made John sick. In the
hollows he feared to sink; on the wrave-
tops the wind drove spume from following
seas into ears and eyes and gasping mouth.
What seemed like an eternity dragged
by; and still the wind howled and roared
and lashed and fought with the boisterous
sea. John Fordyce knew he was alive,
knew he struggled on, but that was all
—until from the depths of his consciousness
r*>se a coherent thought that soon he must
elude the support of the two boys who so
nobly clung to his side. Poor fellows, they
must, have their chance, not be dragged to
death by the man who had brought them to
this pass; for he felt he could not last
much longer.
Then came the lull. Swiftly as it had
fallen upon them the wind dropped. Not a
breath of air eddied above the water, though
the sea ran high as ever. Grey light, the
glimmer of a primeval dawn, stole across
the waste. John looked into Nguri’s face,
so close to his. Gaunt and lined beneath
fierce whiskers, now sogged in salt water,
his dark cheeks had fallen in. His eyes,
suffused with blood, glared crimson. He
attempted to grin. Thank God, thought
John triumphant, for the affection of his
boys! The boy on his other side had been
one of the least responsive, a dull-wit to
whom he had scarcely spoken; yet here he
had been battling gloriously to save his
boss’s life.
The blessed lull! It raised their stricken
hopes. The light grew in strength. They
were swept up on a magnificent crest, a
king among waves. The boys gave a simul-
taneous yell of delight. “Look-see, Boss,”
they screamed into John’s deafened ears.
“Sandhills! You, me catch ’em!”
The very sound of a human voice after
the uproar of the elements brought fresh
strength to John’s limbs. The boys seemed
to recognise his exhaustion. Each time they
rose upon a wave Nguri begged him to look.
“Sandhills! Sandhills!” he muttered, as
though the word itself exhaled some elixir
of life. “CJo&'e up now, Boss,” cheered the
other. Yet the time between his first
glimpse of the land and realisation that they
were in the surf seemed to John almost
as long as the infinity of their hours in
the water.
The sand! Was ever sensation more ex-
quisite than scratch and grind of a myriad
sharp grains as the breakers banged them
face down upon the beach? John tried
to stand, but his legs might have been para-
lysed. The boys had to run back and
drag him out. He lay panting and faint,
until the tingling of blood returning to his
limbs forced him to sit up.
They were cast on a sandy beach, he
and the two natives. But where were the
others? Had the dinghy been driven safely
to shore? God! where was Sophie?
He must find them, and there was not a
moment to spare. The peace would be
short-lived. Swiftly the willy-willy would
come raging back. They would have to
look for shelter or be flung again into the
voracious sea.
He rose painfully and staggered along
the beach. By this time warning puffs of
hot air were coming across the sandhills.
Suddenly Nguri pointed to a man strug-
gling in the surf, too weak to- drag himself
from the clutch of the sea. Into the churn-
ing foam they dashed and dragged him to
safety. John had expected it to be one
of his own men; and his heart pounded at
the thought. If this were Wilson or
Babbet, where was Sophie? To his amaze-
ment he recognised the weatherbeaten face
of the old sailor he had once found chained
to the gaol post at Cossack. The man lay
battling for breath, all but naked, as indeed
John was, too. The sea had let them go
with little more than their lives.
The spurt of light was failing. Closer
and closer together came the sinister gusts
of wind.
“A’mighty, if it ain’t Mr. Fordyce!”
croaked a hoarse voice. “Heigh, wot about
that there drink, sir? When next we meet,
you sez. Me luck’s dead out! An’ I c’d do
with a gallon or some’t sweeter nor salt
water!”
“What ship are you from?” asked John.
“Captain Budson’s, sir. An’ she walloped
down under our feet like a whale sounding.
Wonder where the rest are?”
“Come and help look—there is little
time.”
They went on down the beach, picking
their way amidst debris, peering into a
ghostly light which slowly became tinged
with crimson. Through a rent in the
clouds low on the horizon they caught a
glimpse of a red globe. The setting sun—
and the cabin clock had pointed to a few
minutes after noon just before the Sprite
foundered.
The fitful red light faded.
Fear, more awful than any waves, buf-
feted John now. The seaman and the boys
implored him to seek safety; they could
scarce stand against the rising wind. Re-
luctantly he turned towards the sandhills
—what could a man do in face of mad
elements?
Abruptly Nguri stood still, his dark form
poised to listen. “Some feller come!” he
exclaimed.
John’s heart stopped beating.
Figures appeared, took shape and solidity
against the murky atmosphere as they ran.
Natives, and more natives; Budson’s divers
and John’s boys, running together, tribal
disputes forgotten in a common danger.
Eagerly John scanned the livid faces of
the white men trailing behind—they were
strangers, the mate of the three-masted
schooner and two more of her crew.
Into the scrub in the lee of a high dune
scrambled white and brown together. Peer-
ing still, battered by the wind, John lagged
behind. Nguri ran back.
“Come on, Boss,” he yelled. He had dis-
covered one of the boys from the dinghy
among the crowd; and as he fought his way
up the sliding sand beside his master he
yelled disastrous tidings into his ears. The
little boat had reached the surf safely
enough, only to be hurled over among the
mangroves, battered to pieces by the
breakers in sight of land; The boy, swim-
ming alongside, had flung himself clear,
but the rest of her crew had disappeared
beneath her into the roaring curds.
John cast a glance along the dark strip
of sand which alone remained visible. “I
go look-see,” he called.
The native put out a restraining hand.
“You no damn-fool, Boss,” he implored.
One instant John hesitated; and in that
instant out from darkness into range of his
vision stepped Baia Budson.
The willy-willy had not dealt any more
gently with Budson than with the other
victims of its sport. The brute strength and
coarse beauty of his huge frame was more
noticeable than ever as he lurched forward
with his clothes hanging in tatters. A
purple bruise distorted his features, swell-
ing the thin lips,, making of his face an
evil mask. He was covered in sand.
“You!” he shouted at sight of Fordyce.
John turned on his heel. He could not
at that moment face the brute—why, in
the name of a just Heaven, had the sea not
swallowed him up? And where, where, was
Sophie ?
For a second the wind abated. Then the
willy-willy broke above their heads, and
rain swept down like a cataract. Side by
side the two of them struggled in amongst
the others.
“More of your company lying on the
beach. Dead.” Budson screamed the words
into John’s ear. “Young Sophie got some
sense to save matches. Rooked ’em. Come
in handy.” The wind jerked half the words
away into the night; but. John, though his
lips were diy, hurled a question high above
the howl of the gale. “What do you mean?”
In answer Budson held out his huge fist
and displayed a tin matchbox. Dazedly
John took it, turned it in his hand.
“Tied to her clothes,” roared Budson.
He watched John staring at the box as if
it were a poisoned barb, his face a white
smudge against the bushes, his fingers fumb-
ling as he raised the lid.
The ghostly light flickered over the
satiny skin of pearls. Baia leapt forward,
an oath on his swollen lips. Amazement,
avarice, anger glittered in his eyes. Pearls
—when he had been glad enough to find,
as he thought, matches wherewith to light
a fire! And, like a half-wit, had given them
back to their owner!
Fordyce shook like a man with the fever.
The pearls from Paradise! On Sophie!
Yet how came Baia—what had he said?
“Where’d you get ’em?” he shouted,
tense in effort to snatch up eveiy word.
“Off Sophie, of course!” screamed back
Budson. “They call you Lucky Fordyce
and they’re right! You’ve saved your own
hide, and Sophie’s saved the pearls and
You’re free—she makes a pretty corpse!”
he added maliciously.
The last words, shrieking past on the
wind, sent a spurt of fire flashing through
John’s leaden veins, red flames leaped to
his eyes. The pearls scattered into the
night as his fist crashed into Budson’s
sneering mouth. The other men cried out.
Staggering, Baia sought to regain his. bal-
ance, looked vainly round for some way of
escape from the man whose hand was lift-
ing for a second blow.
Straight and true between the eyes fell
the avenging knuckles. Baia toppled back-
wards over one of the natives as his mate
dragged John away. Motionless the man
lay, with ghastly, dark blood pouring from
a gash in his head where he had crashed
against a root.
Overhead reigned pandemonium of Hell
let loose.
“You’ve killed him!” screamed the mate.
“Not so lucky as that!” John replied. But
none heard him; the words flew away on
the wind screeching in devilish glee across
the sand.
Fordyce turned and stumbled into the
night, his mind still dazed by flare of his
wrath, his one instinct to find Sophie.
All night the others huddled together in
silence. The natives slept. They were
alive. If some of their mates were dead,
no matter; for themselves they were weary
and needed sleep—no storm on earth could
make them quake wide-eyed like the white
men crouched beside them! From time to
time one of Budson’s crew eased his posi-
tion; but they could not hear his groans,
nor would they have cared greatly if they
had.
The wind howled in derision at John For-
dyce, and tossed him down upon his face.
He lay where he fell, too exhausted to battle
longer. The rain lashed him, the flying sand
tortured him, the wind tried to fling him
back to the sea; yet he was scarcely con-
scious of bodily agony, for his mind kept
watch in Gethsemanc.
How could he doubt Budson? Was not
the box of pearls evidence in plenty? He
remembered Sophie tying it tightly in a
handkerchief, securing it to her clothes.
“We can’t lost those, John,” she had mur-
mured with her shy smile.
And now —a pretty corpse, Baia had said!
That Baia should be the one to find her,
should dare'to touch her, should be the one
to tell him—it could not be! Not Sophie!
So young, so sweet.! Only this morning—
this morning?—she had trembled in his
arms; her last kiss was yet warm on his
lips. If only he had stayed with her! If
only he had not thought she would have a
better chance with Nguri in the dinghy!
If only Nguri had obeyed him, left him to
fight the sea alone, guarded that life so
much more dear than his own
Yet he had thought—what matter now!
He had made a fool’s mistake; yet if
only
The unspeakable bitterness of that “if
only”; and more bitter still the taste of
Budson’s lewd words. Free, Baia had said
Free! Like a flail that one word fell upon
John’s bleeding heart. He who had thought
no more of freedom since the calm days
in Paradise lay prone upon the earth
scourged by the fury of dynamic forces,
yet caring not, for his soul writhed from
the deadlier scourge of knowledge too dearly
bought. Fool, fool that he had been to
imagine a man could ever live free of his
thoughts, his passions, his actions! Perhaps
a stick like Wilson, dry as dust—but a man.
What freedom had life held for him until
he forgot himself and thought only of his
beloved? Surely he had discovered a
liberty more glorious than any he had
thought to seek! Not where he expected
had he found it, not on the wide ocean,
in careless loves, in a new and lawless land:
not in golden days and blue seas, but in
Sophie. His little love!
Freedom—never again for him so long as
life might last! How could he ever escape
the memoiy of those adoring grey eyes,
that flashing smile? Fool, fool! Sophie
had known best; together they should have
faced the waters; together won—or died.
Let the wind destroy him; better far that
he should also lie dead.
With the dawn came peace, silence as
terrific as the gale—for John Fordyce the
silence of an empty world. The clouds
cleared like a drawn curtain from a nebu-
lous sky; the rain and the wind vanished.
Up in the dunes the exhausted white men
fell asleep at last. But like an old. old
man rose John. He crept up to the others,
stared vacantly a moment at Baia, snoring
with gaping mouth, then kicked Nguri and
two other boys until they sat up.
“Come look for Missie,” he ordered, and
staggered off down the beach.
He moved unconsciously through a deso-
late scene. Gone were the beautiful green
forests of mangroves. They had been
stripped to stumps; high inshore their
branches made a brush wall for miles along
the coast, marking like a barricade the
height to which the waves had risen.
Amidst the branches lay wreckage—cabin
furniture, spars, broken dinghies and
hatches; flotsam telling a disaster which had
overtaken many another vessel besides the
two schooners in Coolgurra Creek. In
places the wind had even dispersed the
sandhills; from the sea the coastline would
appear completely altered.
The sun rose, lighting a calm, smooth sea.
stretching, as far as the eye could reach,
like an ocean of blood, red with mud washed
down from river and creek or carried from
the shore by the receding waves.
Conscious at last, John Fordyce for a
second shut his eyes in horror to blot out
the vision of scarlet waters lapping on the
sand. A gentle breeze refreshed him.
touched bare chest and arms with cool
caressing fingers, as if it were eager to salve
the bruises of the night.
On he dragged and on, but he could not
keep pace with his boys.
They found the Sea Sprite. She lay
high on the beach, not far from where they
had been washed ashore. Right on her
beam ends lay his ship, wfith a gaping hole
in her bilge and the dead body of a diver
hanging in the cables.
At that sight Nguri and the others began
to kneel. “Get him down,” John said.
He felt almost numb now. but he left
the boys and stumbled on alone.
Down among the mangroves suddenly he
spied a figure. He ran. Then, stopping, he
DOPE!
“The Bulletins” next serial is going to be different. It is by a
Collins-street doctor—an among other things—who
prefers, for professional reasons, to use a pen-name; and it deals
with a subject which nobody but a medical man could handle in
this manner. “Johnny,” who provides the story with a title, is an
Oxford M.A. who has become a “dope fiend.” “Johnny,” how-
ever, has better luck than most; he has a knack of falling among
friends, and the story, which soon quits Sydney for a cruise in the
Pacific, is a powerful study of the victim’s disease and his efforts
to beat it. It is one of the most gripping serials “The Bulletin”
has ever published.
The first chapters will appear NEXT WEEK.


sfcuAv>tQ&
TRADE V MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAYBESTOS
“Silver Edge.”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
<v
4^'
Full information,
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day <uf publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express’ ’ obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan, '
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
THOMAS HUBERT FITCH
MARY POSTLETHWAITE GARDINER
Deceased.
JTOR the purpose of inquiries pursuant to Order
of the Ist February 1932 of the High Court
Messrs. Corbin Greener and Cook, 52 Bedford Row
Postlethwaite Gardiner (who died intestate on 4th
August 1931 in London England) Gardiner and
Another v. Bowyer 1932 G. 34 for the purpose of
ascertaining the persons entitled to any property
of the Intestate all persons claiming to be so entitled
are by Ist July 1932 to send in their claims to
George Shorrock Ashcombe Wheatcvoft a partner in
Messrs. Corbin Greener and Cook 5'2 Bedford Row
London W.C.I England Solicitors with full par-
ticulars and in the case of those residing out of
England and Wales the name and address of some
person in England or Wales to whom notices to the
claimant may be sent —in default thereof they will
be excluded from the benefit of the Order unless
the Court on application otherwise orders. The
adjudication on claims is on the Bth day of July
1932 at 12 o’clock noon before Master Willmott at
Room 237 Royal Courts of Justice Strand London
England.
Note: Eizabeth Sarah Fitch a cousin of the
Intestate among others had a son Thomas Hubert
Fitch who went to New Zealand some years ago where
he is believed to have married and had children. The
said Thomas Hubert Fitch may be interested under
the said inquiry.
Dated the 23rd day of March, 1932.
M. G. WILLMOTT,
Master.
CORBIN GREENER & COOK,
52 Bedford Row, London, W.C.I.
The Sugar Industry has to be,
and is, extraordinarily efficient
'‘pEW people realise the splendid
efficiency of the Sugar Industry,”
is the comment of a mill engineer.
* Australia has a higher yield of sugar
per ton of cane crushed than any other
country in the world. Only by using
the most modern equipment, and by
employing efficient white labor at
white men s wages, have growers
and millers been able to keep their
heads above the ever-rising tide of
costs imposed upon them by the
rest of the community.”
«
■
■ :
m
m
7
u
1
SfifSl
m
* y',
'»« v
m
film.
W -
Only the highly efficient can hold their
jobs in sugar mills.
Constant research is the price of
efficiency
We in the industry are proud of the part we play in developing Australian trade, and we want our fellow
countrymen to understand and to appreciate that part. While we have increased our efficiency our return
m money is little more than half what it was in 1920, when the then Prime Minister gave us £30/6/8 per ton
to encourage us to grow all the sugar Australia required. Had Australia been forced to import sugar then, you
would have paid £80 to £90 per ton for it. We supplied it at £30/6/8. To-day our return is £ 1 8 a ton. Any
further reduction in the price of sugar would mean imp overishment of those engaged in its production, and the
serious curtailment of a large and profitable market for Southern goods.
We are not begging. We are not pleading. We are giving you the facts so that you will not, in a thoughtless
moment, seek to injure us. Remember always: WE ARE YOUR CUSTOMERS. What we earn we spend with you.
NORTHERN
TERRITORY
NORTH-WEST
AUSTRALIA
QUEENSLAND
L
How Many Millions would an Industry such as the Su$ar Industry
be worth to Australia's Empty Northern and Western Spaces?
inserted btj the.
Sugar Growers of Australia
Jot the, information of the S/eople
R.S.M.
gave a wild laugh. There, jeering at
him from a mangrove stump, a ghastly
simulacrum of life; hung one of his own
coats, washed from a broken chest! It
was, of all his clothes, his dress-coat!
Bitter irony to find a mangrove mocking his
misery in the garment he had last worn
when accompanying Euphemia to Govern-
ment House!
Had a man called John Fordyce ever led
that life? Had he ever lived at all? Was
it only yesterday he held Sophie in his
arms?
Behind him on the beach he heard the
natives lament a second dead comrade.
When they returned to the tribe the Wor-
rarra people would be short of four young
men. The death-stick had eaten one, the
crocodile another; now the demon of the
wind had swallowed two. They would bury
the dead, then gather some of the thousands
of little sea birds lying stiff on the sand,
relentlessly dashed down by the wind, and
eat and eat and eat until they could forget.
John turned away, stumbled on, and all
but fell over the body of a man. Babbet
lay limp upon his face. No more would he
shake his grey head over ill-omens, or
bring a smile to men’s lips and kindliness
to their hearts with his jests.
Sick at heart, John stooped to turn him
over, to make sure of the all-too-obvious
truth.
A cry pierced the fog of misery gathering
in his brain. He twisted to behold an
object of horror. Creeping across the sand
came Wilson, his naked trunk scored and
scratched by mangrove thorns, one shoulder
black with crusted blood.
John, seeing him alive, leapt at him.
“Where is she?” he demanded.
“Yonder,” mumbled Wilson, with a jerk
of his head.
Beyond the splintered remains of the
dinghy John found her. She lay on the
sand as though in sleep, her brown hair
spread out like a fan. White as marble
she looked, white as the torn shreds of silk
clinging to her limbs; but beneath her head
the sand gleamed red, fed from some hidden
wound. Beside her squatted a boy.
Roughly John pushed away the native.
He fell on his knees.
“Sophie,” he whispered through cold lips.
So white, so still! He stretched forth a
hand, shuddering in fear of the terrible
chill of death, unable to refrain from touch-
ing that dear flesh. His hand slid to her
heart. His own rose into his throat and
suffocated him.
He staggered up. His eyes flamed in his
haggard face.
“My God, Wilson,” he cried, “she’s
alive! ”
Wilson, so stiff he could hardly bear to
move, turned back from his search for help.
A smile twisted his grim mouth. He could
have told Fordyce as much if only he had
waited to hear. Lucky Fordyce!
Sighing, he looked down at Babbet’s half-
seen livid face; then, spying the grotesque
coat, clumsily lifted it down, and with
the conventional decorum of his kind, laid
it across the dead before he limped back
to succor the living.
Into his face the breeze blew soft and
sweet from the shore, the sunlight danced
across the beach, and down among the
mangrove roots the blood-red sea sang a
tiny song.
[The End.]
Who’s for the Main?
Wlio’s for the Main, the Spanish Main?
Who’s for the Main with me?
Bahama here holds scanty cheer
For stout hearts as ye be.
Our last hoard won is spent and spun,
But yonder lies the sea.
A lean, low hull, her lockers full
Of powder, flint and ball;
All tools ye lack in chest and rack
Await ye, brethren all;
Why lounge and laze the dull sheer days.
When further fortunes call?
“I’m for the Main, come loss or gain—
Plantation slave was I;
The lash and gyve I yet survive,
Nor greatly fear to die,
Who ’scaped the rope when Monmouth’s hope
In English dust did lie?”
“I’m for the Main! My pistols speak
The tongue Tortuga knows.
Be that, as wrought, my Scotch sire fought
’Foretime with Cromwell’s foes.
And I was born, an heir forlorn,
In fated Barbadoes.”
“I’m for the Main! To Trade-wind Cay
I came from God-knows-where;
But, Dutch or Dane, what odds when gain
Is ours to rend and share!
The cutlass and the pistol band
Us all in compact fair!”
All for the Main, the anxious Main,
All for the Main we be,
Who for a groat would slit a throat
Or fire a church for three!
A can of flip, and now to ship
With right good heart go we!
All for the Main, where brave gold bars
And silver ingots shine,
Our hold to freight with bags of eight
And silks and jewels fine,
To walk arrayed in gay brocade
And drink the Spanish wine.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BEADY.


tablet every day
“A wholesome, bitter-
sweet chocolate, blended
with choice nuts. It does
not cloy the palate and is
full of nourishment—in
fact an ideal chocolate
for men.”
Dans
BITTER-SWEET CHOCOLATE WITH ALMQNIDS
Nestle’s
3d. 6d.& 1/-
OUTDOOR CHOCOLATE
;9.
TAKE A N ESTLE’i TABLET HOME TONIGHT
“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS!”
Repair®. Firearms sent C.O.D.
WINCHESTER STAINLESS
STEEL BARRELS WILL
LAST A LIFETIME.
PIT one to your old Rifle and bring
it up to date. Specially suitable for
hi-po.wer cartridges. 1906, 50/-: 1892,
25/20 and 82, £5. Postage extra.
Sil Robu’s High Standard of Quality
Firearms and Fishing Tackle is well
known throughout Australia. If con-
sidering the purchase of any of these
goods, write for Catalogue (Firearm—
500 illustrations, or Fishing Tackle—
200 illustrations).
SIL ROHU (Late A.I.F.),
Gunsmith. Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Ffsbinsr Tackle Specialist,
143b ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540
“FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING .«
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
For the third week in Sydney there was
no tote betting at the Saturday meeting,
which was held at Rosehill. The attend-
ance was palpably affected, though after a
rainy morning it turned out fine. Few race-
goers figure among the multitudinous mugs
who admire Lang. Booth, the local owner-
trainer, saddled up a likely-looking sort in
the Maiden Handicap: Regal’s Son, a black
colt, by Australian Sun —Lager. Made a
warm favorite, he ran green, and was per-
haps unlucky to be beaten by Bombastic
(7 to 1), though Bombastic, a son of Wind-
bag—Dame Andria, is no mean slab of
horseflesh.
A kuna, a three-year-old daughter of
Archery-—Fallingbrook, was the medium of
sound support (eights to fives) in the Gran-
ville Stakes, and finished in a style not dis-
tantly reminiscent of her half-brother, Poly-
eletan, winner of the Metrop. in 1924.
Second to her was Khartoum (6 to 1), now
trained by William Kelso ; Dora’s Pride, an
outsider, was third. Akuna is trained by
M. Webster for J. J. Leahy, who bred her.
Another three-year-old was to the fore in
the Auburn Handicap, and a good one—
Whittingham, by Reserving—Linlass. Firm-
ing from 7 to 2, he went out at 2 to 1 in
a field of 15, a strong field, too. Cleave (7
to 1) came into the straight lengths clear of
the opposition, but she had no Canterbury
Park sprinters to meet, and faded out of a
place; Whittingham, brought along by Cook
with a late run, cut down the leaders rapidly,
G»ert: *Yve found it.'*'
BERTJ 'tsiOOD NOW WE CAsN
QET ON WITH THE Gi^Me"
MV UMBRELLA,
Plea.se",
Bert Woucdnt vou menace setter
with VO UR DEAR V'
and won. well from Orby An thus, whose party
is flying at too high game, and Omagh, also
a three-year-old. Omagh was really fourth,
but Anchor’s jockey forgot to weigh in. It
was rather a pity for Whittingham’s new
owner that the black was left out of the
Doncaster. He would have got in at 6st. 71b.
or thereabouts; he will be near 9st. in the
Epsom.
This Page’s notion that Rogerson (Roger
de Busli—Sweet Alison) is » good horse was
borne out in the Rosehill Handicap. It is
a long time since a middle-distance handicap
in good company—Cathmar, Tangible,
Crucis, Phlare and Le Legion were among
the starters —was won so easily. Britt, who
rode Rogerson at Canterbury Park, had been
engaged for Phlare, and the lesser-known
Nowland had the mount; partly for that
reason plenty of sixes could be got, though
11 to 2 it was at the completion of betting.
If Rogerson was ever headed it was only for
a few strides. “He’ll come back!” people
shouted as he dashed into the straight, but
he went farther away, and wound up three
lengths ahead; time, 2min. 7sec. Crucis
headed the beaten bunch; Gallant Top was
third. G. H. Moody has certainly done well
with the horses he has leased.
Tregilla’s half-brother Burwood beat Am-
mon Ra in a two-year-old race, but has
done little since, and was a surprise favo-
rite, at 5 to 2, for a division of the High-
weight Handicap. He proved a cut above
the others, though they included Sir Dun-
inald, Havaspot and Rodondo (just beaten
out of a place), and if he had come to hand
a bit sooner might have picked up a good
race at Easter. The horses in the other divi-
sion were an inferior lot; Just Gold (7
to 1) got home. She was handicapped with-
in a pound of Burwood, but he could pro-
bably give her 201 b.
* ; != * *
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Vallage; next, Sweet
Maggie.
Moorefield Handicap: Trenette or Exact;
next, Intrepid or Black Douglas.
Rockdale Mile: Trenette or Intrepid;
next, Alienor.
* * * $
The Australian turf is the poorer for the
passing of Adrian Knox. Before his
appointment to the High Court Bench the
ex-Chief Justice was for years closely con-
nected with racing in N.S.W., both as an
owner and as an administrator. For years
he was chairman of the A.J.C., and in that
position helped to greatly extend the acti-
vities of the club and the sport of racing
generally. Some good horses raced in his
colors; perhaps his best win was in the 1910
Sydney Cup with Vava s or. The A.J.C. has
perpetuated his memory in the Adrian Knox
Stakes.
* * * *
Racing is flourishing in Melbourne, there
being no Lang. The size of fields at subur-
ban courses is becoming serious for all con-
cerned. There were 10 events at Mentone
last Saturday, and, though the sport began
at 12.45 p.m. it was well on to six o’clock
before McShortodds ordered his retinue to
break camp and remove the impedimenta to
his limousine. Punters suspect that big
fields are angled for by club proprietaries
with an eye to tote returns. The Vic. deduc-
tion is 10 per cent. (Lang’s is 12£ p.c., plus
broken money), half of which goes to the
Government for charitable purposes.
Lou Robertson, of Mordialloc, won a Caul-
field Futurity Stakes for A. P. Wade with
Top Gallant, and he has handled a large
proportion of the thoroughbreds sired $y
that horse, whose death at the stud in the
spring of 1930 was a blow to his owner.
Wade bred Prodigy, who caused surprise by
squeezing home in the first division of the
youngsters’ race at Mentone. The filly did
not look forward enough, and started at 20
to 1. Prodigy gained the verdict by half a
head from James Scobie’s Tippler colt Burra
Peg. Her rider, Hastie, of Sydney, was
reprimanded for not keeping the filly under
proper control. Hastie weighed out for Mul-
tudo in the second division of the Two-year-
old Handicap, and won that race as well. He
had mixed luck with a vengeance; the
stewards suspended him for a month for
crossing the field too sharply when riding
Multudo.
Marcovara, the dam of Prodigy, was im-
ported from England, and is by Marco from
Vara, by St. Angelo. As Prodigy was not
sold as a yearling, she is presumably held
on lease by Robertson. In 1930 Robertson
won an Oaks Stakes for Wade with Barb-
ette (by Top Gallant), and history may
repeat itself in the case of Prodigy. George
Allen, who travelled Multudo to Melbourne
from Westralia,'by way of Sydney, did not
forget to back his prad. The Moabite colt
went out a hot favorite and simply danced
away from the opposition. He was picked
up at the Randwick sales last year for lOOgns.
by James Redfearn, whose late father landed
a Melbourne Cup wdth Malvolio. On March
12 Multudo dead-heated for second place in
the race which Tingalba captured at Rosehill.
Melbourne appears to be the Mecca of
M.L. trainers at the present juncture. Among
those to take up quarters there is H*. S.
Greene, who nas only two horses —Lady
Alert (by Chief Ruler) and Araunah (by
Hunting Song). The former was favorite
for the first division of the Two-year-old
Handicap at Mentone, but finished sixth
only. Araunah, a grey three-year-old geld-
ing, compensated for his companion’s failure
by capturing the Mentone Plate. At the be-
ginning of the year he ran five furlongs in
59jsec. at Wellington; on that form he was
well treated with 7.10. Stable connections
seized the opportunity with both hands, and
Araunah was made favorite at 4 to 1 in a
field of 18. Broughton, who accompanied
Greene from M.L., is a smart lightweight.
Towards the end of the afternoon he piloted
Timsbury—another grey—to victory in a
division of tlie Mentone Purse.
If breeding counts for anything, Solo King
ought to go far as a steeplechaser. This
Comedy King gelding made his debut over
brush fences at Mentone, and, sharing favo-
ritism with Wirrate, he won with a lot in
hand from the hunter Precocious, with Wir-
rate a poor third. Precocious is a half-
brother to Rakwool, who carried off the
V.R.C. Grand National Steeplechase last
year. Fred Hoysted, who trains Solo King,
prepared Rakwool for his cross-country
triumph. Pensee, the dam of Solo King, is
by EarLston from Pona, who produced the
1908 A.J.C. Derby hero, Parsee. Gus Powell
started Bhopal and Tezpur in the week-end
steeplechase. The mare, unbacked, ran
fourth, but Tezpur fell. Mosstrooper had
an outing on the flat in the Welter Mile.
He looks healthy, but is backward in condi-
tion yet.
Elwood Fisher, who did so well in the
autumn with Middle Watch, had two set-
backs at Mentone. Shadow King and Walter
Scott, each of whom is owned by F. E.
Shillabeer, were second in their respective
races. Hastie, Broughton and Duncan
shared the riding honors, with two wins
each. Duncan scored in the principal event
on Trireme, a mare from Adelaide, and took
the second division of the Welter Mile on
Polthogue.
* * * *
For Ascot on Saturday:—
Ascot Five Hundred: Phoenix or Karomin.
Ascot Plate: St. Valour or More Cyllene.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Wrestlers Walter Browning (14.3) and
Tom Lurich (14.2) had their sixth struggle
at Leichhardt last Saturday night, the en-
counter ending in a draw. Although not as
strong or rough as his opponent, Lurich
gained the first fall with a body-scissors in
the fourth. Next Browning’s rabbit-killers
and flying tackles, followed by a throw over
the ropes, had the Russian so weak that he
fell an easy victim to a Boston crab. Lurich
wrestled better than Browning, but falls,
not points, decided it.
Footbrawl
most auspicious was the opening of the
Vic. League season on Saturday, bright
weather and about 125,000 spectators greet-
ing the 18 dozen players at the six matches.
The match that promised most thrills, the
one between Richmond and St. Kildai, proved
a dud, the Good Young Men failing in all
departments and collecting only 50 to Rich-
mond’s 116. The Strang brothers, from
Albury, duly appeared, having got over their
disappointment at not being allowed to
accept lucrative coaching billets—the £8
flat rate at Richmond doesn’t compare with
tne £lO one was offered to coach in Tassy.
Richmond, having trained and advertised him,
considers it has a right to hold on to him
for a few seasons at least. The surprise of
the day was at Fitzroy, where another
Albury youth, Haydn Buonton, only just 20,
captained the Maroons in their victory over
Carlton. Bunton deserves credit, for it was
by keeping play open on the wings that Fitz-
roy gained the day, with 91 to the Blues’ 75.
Another tail-ender of last season, North
Melbourne, went to Geelong, losing to' the
premiers by 78 to 105. Footscray, having ini-
ported three or four inter-State stars, made
sure of trouncing Essendon, but had to be
satisfied with second place—Essendon
105, Footscray 54. South Melbourne had
s&sfas:
thorn by 76 to 51. -
/Dtzcray : It looks as if the Australian
Lules football authorities are tired of hav-
mg their game tied to one continent. In any
case, 1 rank Beaurepaire, who is on his way
to America, has been commissioned to nego-
tiate with some interested Americans for the
visit to the States of two Australian Rules
teams to give exhibition matches throughout
the country. Some years ago the then coach
at Geelong was engaged for a couple of sea-
sons by one of the American universities. The
Australian’s principal job was tq improve
their diop-kicking, which plays an important
part in Yankee football, where a snapped
goal usually decides the rough-and-tumble
which they call a game over there. It is
understood that the Rugby League, which
is not enjoying its old monopoly in N.S.W.
and Queensland, has eyes on a missionary
trip to America also.
* * * *
Rugby Union grade football in Sydney this
year looks very even. Up to the fourth
round on Saturday last Western Suburbs,
a team mostly made up of comparatively
unknown youngsters, had won all their
games. In the match with University, at the
Students’ Oval, they were well beaten 16-0
(3 tries, two converted, and a penalty goal
to a try and two penalty goals). The
lighter Uni. forwards upset the cart, keeping
up an untiring attack from start to finish.
Morton hooked superbly for the winners and
McShane, behind the pack, played the game
of his life. Behind McShane things were
not so good, and but for dropped passes
Uni.’s margin would have been greater. How-
ever, there was an improvement in the clos-
ing stages, wlnm two fine tries for Uni. by
winger Kennedy clinched matters. Wests,
playing the 3-4-1 “South African” scrum,
failed badly in the back division, but were
rarely given any peace by the venomous Uni.
vanguard. At North Sydney, Northern
Suburbs won comfortably from Randwick by
22 to 9. jJrummoyne proved too tough for
St. George at Hurstville. winning 23-16:
and at Manly Eastern Suburbs got home
from the Villagers by 8-6.
* * * ■ *
The N.S.W. Rugby League ushered in its
big football season at Sydney Sports Ground
on Saturday with a match between City
and Country; City won by 27-15 (5 tries, 4
converted, and 2 penalty goals to 3 tries. 2
converted, and a penalty goal). Considering
that both sides were in the nature of pick-
ups, the football shown was very fair, though
combination was often lacking and handling
shaky. The strong wind helped a good deal
to this, but over-eagerness and a desire to
shine had most to do with it. The best
feature of the game was the battle between
the rival stand-off halves, Eric Weissel for
the Country, and E. Norman for the
Townies. Better served from the scrum than
his vis-a-vis, Weissel did not excel him in
other respects, and Norman’s subsequent
selection for N.S.W. caused no surprise.
Scores at half-time were 7 all, so City livened
things up considerably in the second spell.
The hooking of R. Duncan, of Kurri Kurri,
for Country was excellent, in spite of
attempts to suppress him by one City forward.
* * * *
“Bowton”: The North of England team,
which is to land in Sydney on May 21 to
engage the Queensland and N.S.W. Rugby
Leagues, comes with a great reputation as
a forward combination. The skipper, James
Sullivan, will be welcomed on his third visit
to Australia, where his full-back play, and
especially his wonderful goal-kicking, has
won him hosts of admirers. Like most of
the leading Northern Union players, Sulli-
van, who is a Welshman, learned the game
in the Union code. If the side has a weak-
ness anywhere it may be at half-back,
though the five-eighths are exceptionally
good, Davies being quoted as a champion.
Big and powerful, the visitors, who are
adepts at the all-in game affected by the
Northern Union players, may be counted on
to give the local talent a strenuous time and
the League addicts in the stands full value
for their money.
(Continued on next page.)
When C. W. A. Scott planned his first
London-Darwin flight, which lie made in
April last year, he knew he could beat the
record by 12 hours if he occupied 10 davs
on the journey. On his latest occasion he
had 26 hours less at his disposal to better
Butler’s time by 17 minutes. Flying the
same little 100-h.p. Gipsy Moth he used on
his first attempt he lopped 4hr. 59min. off
Butler’s record, and beat Mollison’s Darwin-
London time by 41min.. setting the main at
8 days 20hr. 44min.


£50 Deposit! Balance over Two Crops
|a|
THESE TERMS
will not be
available for long.
JUST think of it-—the improved, all-
British Fordson Tractor for £5O de-
posit, with the balance, including
freight, payable over your next two
crops ! Such conditions have never been
offered before, and are not likely to be
offered again.
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty.
Limited makes this remarkable offer as a
help and inducement to farmers who need a
Fordson Tractor, but have hesitated to buy.
The all-British Fordson stands alone in
quality, adaptability, economy and low
price. Almost every farmer needs one, and
there is no need to hold off buying any
longer.
These astonishing terms have been made
possible by arrangement between Ford
Motor Company of Australia Pty. Limited,
and the Traders Finance Corporation
Limited. They enable you to finalise the
purchase of your Fordson Tractor out of
earnings over two years. And remember
this, only 5J% per annum hiring charge
will be made on the outstanding balance.
Do not delay! You can now put the
Fordson to work on your farm with the
smallest possible outlay, and pay for it out
of subsequent earnings. Get in touch with
your nearest Ford Dealer now. 1 hese
terms cannot last long.
The cash price of the Fordson Tractor is
£220, f.o.b. nearest Ford Works ; Sales
Tax extra.
So, secure your
FORDSON TRACTOR
without delay.
F.JT.17
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
Footbrawl
“Cripple”: A football referee’s life is a
hard one at the best of times. With the
coming of the cinematographic camera his
burden has been increased a hundredfold.
When the Newcastle Geordies won t’ Coop
from Arsenal, the leading London club, and
one with tons of cash to buy players with,
it was only by a single point—2 goals to 1.
The first goal was disputed on the ground
that the ball had already been taken over
the line. The referee stuck to his guns, and
as his decision could not be challenged New-
castle goes down in history as the winner.
The movies, however, show beyond doubt that
the ball was dead before it was goaled, and
that it should have been a draw, leaving
the ultimate decision to a play-off.
* * * *
“Gate”: The Queensland and N.S.W.
Rugby Leagues are snarling at each other’s
heels —they always do when there is an over-
seas side arriving in Australia. N.S.W. has
fixed a programme for the visit of the
Queenslanders to the Ma State, and the
coves at the Banana end have not approved
of it. The original arrangement was that
the visitors should play at Newcastle on the
way down, but as a last-minute alteration
they were asked to turn out at Armidale
instead. The League, however, insisted on
the Maroons sticking to the N.S.W. pro-
gramme, and there has been even a threat to
cancel the second match with the visitors
if they persisted in being naughty. However,
one tactful individual at the meeting which
discussed the matter suggested the times
were inopportune for parting brass-rags
with Queensland, and the trouble fizzled out
in an atmosphere of suppressed blanky.
* $ *
“Last Ditch”: One of the regrettable fea-
tures attending the management of Rugby
Union football of late is the easy acquies-
cence in the return of players and clubs to
the amateur fold after deserting it for a
time to follow the lure of professionalism.
N.S.W. has been especially lax. It is
time this sort of thing was stopped. If. a
player is fool enough to take on the style of
a professional gladiator, by all means let
him do so. To permit him to again mingle
on an equal footing with players who have
stood fast to their amateur principles is
little short of an insult to the latter.
* * * *
“Chalmers”: One quaint outcome of the
recent industrial riots in Dunedin was the
decision of the local toilers to declare the
Otago University Rugby team “black”
because a number of the players, with other
members of the Uni., enrolled as special con-
stables. There was an analogous case in
Queensland, during the 1891 shearers'
strike. A Rugby match was to be
played between the shearers’ camp at Blackall
and a town team. Included in the latter
was a young player of some repute who
was on a visit from Brisbane to some local
squatter friends. He was promptly declared
“black,” and not a boot stirred until he
accepted the situation.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Australian tennis
heads are pulling a wry mouth over the
American decision that the Davis Cup match
between America and Australia—provided
of course, that our men beat Cuba and
Yankeeland can account for Canada and
Mexico —will be played at Philadelphia. This
Quaker city is a byword in the States for
its unconquerable somnolence. Everything
is a hundred years or so behind the times.
There are no permanent stands on the tennis
grounds there, and temporary ones have to
be erected for big events. In 1924, when
Australia played America at Philadelphia, it
had to pay half the cost of these stands.
This was the principal item in the debit
balance of £l4BO with which the Australian
team finished that year’s tour. The story
promises to be repeated—as far as Phila-
delphia is concerned.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: With the stars absent with
the Davis Cup team, Australian tennis heads
found themselves in a quandary the other
day when they were reminded that they had
promised to send a side to Japan. Provided
the Japanese are willing, it has been decided
to send young Turnbull, of South Australia,
who should have been in the Davis Cup team
in place of Sproule, and. of course, the
schoolboy wonder McGrath. That over-
worked youth has been rushing frantically
from tournament to tournament in town and
country, and is probably a more remunera-
tive drawcard at present than Crawford him-
self. A third member is to be chosen, and
on form this should be another South Aus-
tralian, Quist, who has shown very high-
class form indeed this season and is young
enough to improve.
* * m hs
“Hotham”: The Australian tennis over-
lords in Melbourne decided last week to
invite Mrs. Moody, better remembered as
Helen Wills, to pay a tennis-playing visit
to Australia. The lady has not been much
heard of in American tennis of late, and at
last advices it was doubtful if she would
figure at Wimbledon, where she is a great
favorite. It would be difficult to find anyone
to give Helen a gallop in Australia to-day,
for even Daphne Akhurst at her best could
never extend the American, who is easily the
best player of her sex the game has seen
since the Lenglen. However, she would pro-
bably bring some sparring partners with her,
and an attractive programme could be
Arranged, with the usual matches against the
States and Australia.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: Two Digger golf com-
petitions came off recently. One was the
annual A.I.F. Cup event staged by the Lakes
Golf Club in Sydney. This was won,
after a tie with McLeod (both returning
net cards of 67), by McPherson, who won
the play off by three strokes. The winner’s
handicap was 24 and his opponent’s 18. As
among those close up to the leaders were
players with names like Ferguson, Begg and
McDonald, there seem to have been the
makings of a braw Scots’ nicht. The other
show was the seventh annual go for the
Anzac Cup in Brisbane. The pot was won
by J. G. Wilhaber who. with an 8-handicap,
turned in a 71-card. The best gross score
was 76 by professionals Stafford and South-
combe.
“The McHaggis”: Something of a fuss
was caused in Sydney golfing circles last
week when an alderman, referring to the
engagement of a professional for the local
municipal links, advocated the engagement
of a young, good-looking man, since the
flappers who provided most of the course
revenue did not care to be taught by elderly
instructors. Of course, it is possible to be
elderly and yet retain that sheik atmosphere.
Still, crabbed age is apt to be impatient.
There is a yarn of Wullie Auchterlonie, one
of the old school Scottish professionals. He
had one of Queen Victoria’s younger daugh-
ters wished on him for instruction and she
turned out a proper dud. One day, after
she had done everything he had told her a
hundred times not to do, Wullie could stand
it no longer. Throwing down his cleek he
raised hands and eyes to Heaven. “Ma
Goad,” he cried; “whit it is tae teach a
goineril like yon !”
* * *
“Brassey”: Sydney golfers were mildly
amused when Bradman and Oldfield turned
out in a foursomes match at Kensington.
Bradman had D. G. Soutar for a partner,
and the wicketkeeper was hitched up with
Sam Richardson. The B. and S. combina-
tion won, though Richardson did a brilliant
round of 67 on a 72 par course. The
cricketers carried a handicap, Bradman 12
and Oldfield 18. The net scores of the pair
were 73 and 75 respectively. In the opinion
of the experts, Bradman has the makings of
a golfer in him. Oldfield’s form is not quite
so promising.
sj: iJJ $
“Hamilton” : Golfers attending the Queens-
land championships from May 18 to 28 will
get plenty of variety for their entrance
money. In addition to the usual events for
the State titles, the Royal Queensland club
is giving a trophy for play among the second
eight amateurs in the open championship,
while the club’s skipper, Dr. Wallis Hoare,
is providing another for a long-driving
championship open to both amateurs and
professionals. Conditions for this last will
be the average length of three shots, all of
which must be on the marked fairway.
Car and Cycle
“Kick Starter”: Freak cars and motor-
cycles continue to blossom on the British
market. The latest is described as a “two-
wheeled car,” and is sold at the same price
as the average light motor-cycle. Tubes are
absent from its make-up, the frame being
of pressed steel, and all working parts are
completely enclosed, this obviating clothing
damage from oil, while the gadget can be
washed down with a hose. The engine is
148c.c. two-stroke, and there is a three-
speed gearbox, clutch, brakes on both wheels
and a foot-starter. Weight is 1701 b., with
electric lighting, and mileage 130 to the
gallon.
’* * * *
“Kick Starter”: The motor-cycle world is
beginning to cock an eye at the Isle of Man
Tourist Trophy races, which are set down
to be decided in June. The treble event is
the classic of the motor-cycle road-racer, and
the entries increase year by year in spite
of the intricate and mountainous course
which has to be negotiated. Australia will
this year have three men riding. One is
Brewster, of N.S.W., who rode in the
“Junior” last year, finishing 18th and aver-
aging 66.3 m.p.h. J. Pringle, the Victorian
rider, has a first-class record on Australian
r «.j, He recently won the NSW TT
race ovef 100 mUes 3 ; and last'year ‘ took the
Phillip Island Grand Prix, averaging 60
m.p.h. He has been prominent of late at
Brooklands; he won the gold star for
motor-cycle speedsters reaching over 100
m.p.h. A. Simcock, who finished eighth in
the Isle of Man “Senior” last year, will be
the third Australian. Recently in an attempt
on J, S. Wright’s world record of 150.73
m.p.h. in Europe he cut out the mile at a
rate of 147.7 m.p.h.
“Sprocket”: The allocation of the annual
push-bike road-and-traek Australian cliam-
pionships has caused considerable heart-
burning among the cycling fraternity this
year. Queensland badly wanted at least
one of the big events for its annual Show
Week, but all the Bananalanders got was
the knock. The senior road championship
will go to Tasmania, but whether the dis-
tance is to be over a 100-mile course or one of
60 miles has yet to be determined by a mail
vote of the States concerned. Queensland
opinion is that if the tides are low enough
that day there will be room in the Apple Isle
for a full 100-mile ruii. This lot will be run
off in August, while Victoria has wangled
the senior and junior track championships
for a date yet to be fixed.
~n eOUS .
Blade : Australia will have rowing re-
presentatives at the Los Angeles Olympiad,
after all. The two Melbourne lads Luxton
and Sambell who were in the Cambridge boat
that beat Oxford, Luxton stroking the Light
Blue crew, will go with their cobbers to the
Olympiad, the Cambridge crew having been a
last-minute choice for the trip as represents-
tives of English rowing. The pair have
achieved an unusual distinction by their
election as president and secretary of the
Cambridge Boat Club. The Cantabs should
have a good chance of collecting the honors,
though they will probably find the Maori-
land eight a stiff proposition. In any case
it will be interesting to note the issue of
the differing styles if the twain meet.
*** . *
“Shrewsbury” : Every Australian follower
of cricket who can go back to pre-war years
will hear with regret of the death of W. H.
Lockwood, who with Tom Richardson was
the mainstay of England’s bowling against
Australia in this country and in England
in the 1890’s and well into the twentieth
century. Lockwood, who came here with Stod-
dart’s side of 1894-95, was one of the greatest
fast bowlers England has produced. With a
very long run, his action was one of the most
beautiful known for a bowler of his class. It
was a liberal education for bowling aspirants
to watch his perfect delivery. For a pace
bowler he had an unusually sharp break
from the off, and he often employed a flight-
ing semi-slow ball that beat the best bats-
men. Ranjitsinhji, for one, always counted
him the best bowler he had ever played
against. In all Tests Lockwood took 43
wickets for an average of 20.55., Perhaps
his best Test-match job was 6 for 48 and 5
for 28 against Australia at Old Trafford in
1902.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ibn el Issar”: The Indian cricket team
which landed in London last week was
handed the unusual honor of a luncheon at
the House of Commons. The side, which
includes players of various religions and
castes from all over India—there is one
player from Burma, though he is a Hindu —
has for skipper the Maharajah of Porbander.
This potentate, who is a very high caste
Rajput, has his abode in Kathiawar, a pro-
vince of Western India famous for the horses
it breeds. He is 31, a notable batsman and
became Maharajah in 1918.
:Ji * * :J:
“Blue Chalk” : A letter received in Aus-
tralia from Walter Lindrum, who has been
showing English billiards in Canada and
America with Tommy Newman, gives par-
ticulars of the professional championship of
American billiards, which much resembles
American football for freakiness, though it
is not so murderous. In this game, on a
pocketless table, three cushions must be
struck in order to complete the cannon after
the cue ball has made contact with the first
object ball. Walter says that every cannon
under these circumstances can only be de-
scribed as a fancy shot. Possibly that is
the case with professionals. Writer person-
ally knows one or two amateurs who bring
off shots of that kind nearly every time they
go to the table.


Use CASH'S RIBBONS
for Shoulder Straps
'-and this just
CAN'T happen
I
\
■ •
Cash's Ribbons arc most
durable, and never break
or fray, once threaded,
you don't remove them
from the Garment—as
w
/Washing RIBBONS/
look like new after repeat
ed washing. Made in
daintiest fadeless Pastel
Shades, with Brocaded or
Floral Effect in- various
widths
Ask your Draper
, for Cash’s.
J. & J. Cash Australian
Weaving Co. Pty. Ltd.
Richmond Melbourne.
DRIVE OUT
RHEUMATISM
AMD BACKACHE
London Doctor’s Prescription.
Don’t suffer crippling Rheumatic pains or backache
when you can get instant relief from Dr. Harrison’s
Pills! This remedy immediately gets to the root
of the trouble by ridding the system of the cause—
uric acid. This uric poison is slowly, day by day,
breaking down your health, causing ageing back,
limb, joint and muscular pains, and probably weaken-
ing the heart. Harrison’s Pills quickly and effec-
tively free you from the danger by dissolving- and
driving from the system the uric acid crystals now
making comfortable life impossible for you. Why
wait until you become crippled, mentally and
physically? Your very brain refuses to do its best
while you are tortured by the uric acid fiend. Get
genuine relief once and for a 11.... Take Harrison’s
Pills to-day and regain your old sparkle, activity
and youth. Harrison’s Pills end the pain and the
cause! Any good chemist or store can supply
Harrison’s Pills in three sizes: 18 Pills, 2/-; 32
Pills, 3/-; 68 Pills, 5/-; thus providing the least
costly form of proven relief from uric acid, rheu-
matic, kidney and bladder pains and disorders to
be had in this country.
Amusements.
SYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
*** J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
CRITERION: THE BARRETTS OF
WIMPOLE STREET.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: BITTER SWEET,
First production in Australia.
KING’S THEATRE:
WHISTLING IN THE DARK.
JHEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Nightly, S. Matinee Every Day, 2.15.
Ella Shields, Gus Bluett, Jennie Benson
in
VENUS, LTD.,
Ernest C. liolls’s colossal production in 34 scenes.
Twice daily, 2.15 and S p.m.
mm
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.K.B, Melbourne.
‘"THE ARGUS” and “THE BAR-
RIER MINER” are the only two
Australian newspapers quoted by “The
Times” in connection with the great
issue of “The Times” Weekly Edition
of Dee. 10 last.
That recognition of the status of “The Barrier
Miner’’ (the great Far West Daily for the past
44 years) is evidence that confirms Australian
opinion.
“The Barrier Miner” is published at Broken
Hill twice every day. TWICE every DAY.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
The great roll-up of the week was at Gov-
ernment House when Lady Game lent her
ballroom for a meeting of the Women’s
Auxiliary of the Industrial Blind Institution
in William-street. Just now the output of
the blind workers is difficult to sell, and the
suggestion of a shop for the display and
sale of these wares seems to this Letter a
very good one. The institution has an
overdraft of £2OOO, but Mayoress Walder
predicts that this will melt away under the
energies of the Women’s Auxiliary, even as
snow under the sun. Certainly her optimism
seems justified, for although the auxiliary
has been in existence only 16 months it
has already raised nearly £2OOO. Organising-
secretary Mrs. A. V. Roberts read the
report and balance-sheet with something
like a note of pride, and later announced
that plans were under discussion for a dance
on board one of the big liners. Mrs. C. M. C.
Shannon, who has been one of the auxiliary's
persistent workers, went from the meeting
enriched by a fountain-pen, a gift handed to
her by Lady Game on behalf of the com-
mittee.
Australia’s old G.-G. Munro-Ferguson
(now Lord Novar) was brought to mind last
week when a young cousin of his, Jean
Mandeville, from Tasmania, was married to
Harold Minton-Taylor, of Hunter’s Hill.
The two were made one within St. Mark’s
at Darling Point, and afterwards toasted at
the home of the Cuthbert Ilawkes couple in
the same suburb. Mrs. A. 11. T. Fleming
attended the bride, and Denis Allen stood by
the ’groom. A small group of Tasmanians,
including Miss Reid, the bride’s aunt, were
at the wedding party.
Feminists the world over must give a cheer
for Carmen, the one grand-opera heroine
who gets one back on the men. She might
even stand for the avenger of the too-femi-
nine Gilda and Butterfly. She flaunts, she
jeers at, she bedevils the men, and though
Don Jose punctuates liis final reply ta her
male order by a fullstop of steel planted in
her heart, still she’s the one lady of title
who has a gay life if a short one.
There seems to' have been a bit of depres-
sion in the freebooting trade about the time
Carmen opens, because the beautiful gypsy
girl is reduced to working in a cigarette
factory; this factory is on one side. of the
public square, where a company of soldiers,
looking rather like a fire brigade, is on duty.
Don Jose, the likely-looking lad in charge,
takes the girl’s eye as she briskly steps along
to her honest, toil, but he’ll have none of
her. “There’s a job here for me,” whis-
pers Tragedy; “let’s make it a front-page
story.” Well, that’s how hero Jose becomes
a smuggler, and Micaela, as far as is known,
a superfluous woman. Jose finds a cosy
welcome in Carmen’s home circle, among
the frowning hills of Spain, but Escamillo,
a bull-fighter on a hiking expedition, dazzles
the girl’s fancy; and that’s the end of Jose
as the perfect lovex*.
When next he meets Carmen she is out-
side the bull ring in Seville. She is gay and
gaudy as a Chinese cracker. Dressed in pink
gauze, its skirts stiff and full, she glitters
goldenly with sequins and jewels. Her man-
tilla of rich white lace flows from a high
qmub. The air, you feel, is hot and breath-
less ; the only breeze, that awakened by her
little fan. While she awaits Escamillo’s
victory, Jose comes upon her. He is un-
shaven, ungartered, his eyes are hot with
sleepless nights. A fine chance he has
against the triumphant, the famous toreador.
Carmen minces no words in telling him so,
and so she herself becomes mince to the
machine of grand opera.
Bruna Castagna was the most tempera-
mental Carmen this Letter has seen; she
clicked her heels and her castanets till they
sounded like a hailstorm. She was fire and
passion, thunder and lightning. Some might
have liked a shade more subtlety in the act-
ing, say, a hundredweight of coquetry in the
first act instead of the ton of it which the lady
hurled in the teeth of the hero and the audi-
ence ; but in Acts 11, 111 and IV there
wasn’t a meek housewife present who didn’t
feature herself tne fierce, stormy gypsy
beauty.
It was quite a relief to turn from the pro-
cession of black velvet, black chiffon and black
taffeta frocks to the brass helmets, the black
boots, the red trousers, the yellow jackets
of the dragoons, the flaming red of Carmen’s,
the intense blue of Micaela’s dress, the vari-
colored shawls and scarves of the cigarette
girls of the first act. The winds of autumn, no
doubt, had much to do with the display of
velvets, and a de luxe edition in the fabric
was sported by the Denison lady, who did the
handsome thing by serving it with her Per-
sian Gulf pearls; Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s white
silk wig was coyly threaded with a Pompa-
dour pink riband; daughter Beatrice con-
trasted white georgette and a green velvet
cloak; Alexander Gordon’s lady wore sleek
blaoJc velvets, and fair-haired Venie Chopin
added a sheath of turquoise velvet and a
sliorn-lamb coat to the circle. Velvet like
a red rose was worn by Mrs. F. J. Davy;
Mrs. E. Wunderlich’s georgettes shone
copper-red.
When Don Bradman sails for Canada on
the Aorangi in May he’ll take his pretty
bride with him. In fact, the tour will be
just an extended honeymoon for the two,
who were married last Saturday night in
St. Paul’s, Burwood. Don. of course, is a
Bowral boy: his wife was Jessie Menzies, of
Burwood. Canon Hughes (vice-president of
the Victorian Cricket Association) came up
from the south to tie the knot, and the
guests and Bradman enthusiasts descended
on the church from every quarter. Even
the policeman on. duty and the church offi-
cials seemed bewildered by the excited in-
terest of the crowd, some of whom had
patiently waited for hours to' see the pass-
ing of the good-looking pair. The bride wore
white and silver brocade, the traditional
veil, and an armlet of orchids. Her two
sisters, their green chiffon frocks worn with
marigold velvet caps, added vividness to
the procession. Victor Bradman was best
man, and Roy Menzies ’groomsman. The
beginning of the honeymoon is a motor trip
in the car presented to Don on his return
from England.
The Blaxland Galleries were vivid with
color, and animation when the ball for the
Hospice for the Dying got into full swing.
Over 500 dancers plunged into the steps and
revolutions of enjoyment, and the frocking
was glitteringly new. Mayoress Walder’s
raiment of silver tissue drawn into a great
bustle bow was distinctive. With it she wore
a short coat of black velvet, its cape sleeves
lined with silver. She and her Lud Mayor
were the guests of Dr. M. J. Slattery aud
Mrs. Slattery; the latter, who was presi-
dent of the ball committee, wore a caped
coat of green and gold lame with pale amber
laces. The basket of roses handed to Mrs.
Walder and the bouquet of pink cactus
dahlias and roses presented to Mrs. Slattery
were fragrant neighbors on the official table.
Josephine Marks, who presided over what
would be a very healthy roll-call for many a
school these days, smiled over her party
(there w r ere over 80 guests in it) in lettuce-
green laces. Mrs. W. Macleod’s black laces,
Mrs. F. J. Davy’s black chiffons and Mrs.
Dan Carroll’s black velvets added their note
of richness to the night. Mrs. W. J. H'urry
and Mrs. A. E. Hickey were the secretaries
of the success.
The girl with the friendly smile and the
fine teeth is Irene Dean-Williams, who flew
solo in her Gipsy Moth from Perth to Syd-
ney, the first
woman to put
up such an
a c h ievement.
She made a
leisurely trip
across the Con-
tinent!, but left
Sydney last
week with the
intention of
breaking the
record on the
return trip.
The flying girl
at once made
herself popu-
lar in this
city, and was
the centre of
entertainments
which lasted
up to the night
before her de-
parture, when
she was the guest of the Nurses’ Social Club
in Macquarie-street. Previously, the Westra-
lian Society had boiled a billy in her honor.
Dorothy Welding made the picture.
Hugh D. Mclntosh threatens to make the
Stadium as social as the opera. Last week,
when he introduced the Maoriland heavy-
weight, Allan Campbell, and Australia’s
hope, Ambrose Palmer, to Sydney, he did
so to an audience that was all weights, sizes
and _ ages. Infantile Rodney Stones were
carried _in in father’s or mother’s arms;
small girls and boys were there with their
parents; youths brought their girls. A lot
of middle-aged men came alone, but what-
ever their years a general air of well-being
enwrapped all. There were some de luxe fur
coats worn, and some obviously imported
cigarettes and cigars smoked. A few women
w-ere in semi-evening frocks (though they
all wore hats) ; crowds of the men were in
dinner suits. Mrs. Hugh D. Mclntosh
brought a party, and near by sat Lord Beau-
champ, who, being a belted earl, has of
course given an appropriate prize for the
boxers to contend for—the Beauchamp belt.
One or two of the young boxers on the
mixed programme had snow-white legs, in
contrast to their tanned uppers. Ambrose
Palmer in the ring is like a dancing der-
vish, or as flickering as a sunbeam; he is
here, he is there, he is nowhere at all when
the blow falls. The Enzedder circles around
his opponent as silkily as a cobra seeking
a really fatal place to strike. There’s not
an ounce of superfluous flesh on the pair of
them; and Palmer gave an exhibition of
skipping that was like the dancing of a
ballerina.
The notability at the Hospice Ball was
Ur. F. L. Apperley, who is as brilliant in
his footwork as in his brainwork. He’s a
Victorian Rhodes scholar, with so many de-
grees that if academic paper represented its
weight in diplomas the Aorangi would
wobble dangerously in the trough of the
Tasman. He goes from Australia to take
the Professorship of Pathology at Richmond
(U.S.A.) Medical School. Richmond, in
case you’ve forgotten your geography, is the
capital of Virginia. Dr. Apperley was lec-
turer on pathology at Melbourne University
Next Tuesday night Winifred Burston, one
of Sydney’s most brilliant pianists, will in-
troduce the double-keyboard piano to Oon-
servatorium audiences. Winifred, who studied
in Europe, has
just returned
from another
tour of in
quiry through
Berlin, Vienna
and London;
and the two-
keyboard
piano, which
Backhaus de-
clares is the*
greatest
advance in
piano-building
since the ham-
mer piano was
invented, made
a strong ap-
peal to her
musician’s
mind and
hands. Com-
positions by
Bach, Handel
and Chopin will be performed on this new
instrument, and the recital should prove one
of the most interesting of the season.
Dorothy Welding made this picture.
The “Women of Sydney” dinner to the
principals of the Grand Opera Company was
one of the happiest parties of the week.
Valobra, of the cameo profile, sat on the right
of _ Mrs. William Eppa and smiled with
delight when she heard her own tongue
echoing the length of the guest table. Here
sat Jean and Lute Drummond, Etta Cowan
and Mrs. Ferrari Passmore, each speaking
Italian as though it was her native language.
Grace Angelau, the slim Canadian of the
company, wore _ vellum lace sleeves of the
Raglan variety in her black moire frock, and
recognised to her delight that her neighbor
was Jean Drummond, who was a student
with her in Milan. Molly de Gunst wore
black chiffons under her fur coat.
Senator Kingsmill’s niece, Kathleen Good-
all, who is touring with “The Barretts of
Wimpole-street,” was given a little ovation
by the Westralian Association the other
afternoon. Kathleen is a daughter of Perth,
and a large group of men and women of the
West gathered at the Lyceum to strike the
loud cymbal in her honor. Tall and dark,
the guest looked very attractive in cobalt-
blue georgettes under a beige velvet coat. Mrs.
Goodisson, Mrs. Mattei, Mrs, Kingsmill and
the wife of Senator Carroll were the official
welcomers.
Sympathy for Maoriland’s Acting Trade
Commissioner. W. It. Blow, and his wife is
widespread. The two were caught in a car
collision, near Cremorne Junction last Satur-
day, which proved fatal to Mrs. Blow’s
father, Rowland Waterhouse, of Mosman.
Poor Mrs. Blow, who was driving,' had the
further shock of seeing her husband badly-
injured ; he had to be readmitted to hospital,
which he had not long since left after a
slight eye operation.
The engagement of Sylvia Stewart and
Malcolm Campbell brings two interesting N.
S. Wales families together. The Stewarts
date back to the very early days of the State.
General Stewart, the bride-to-be’s great-
grandfather, built The. Mount, a few miles
outside Bathurst, in imitation of his own
ancestral home in Scotland, and it stands
unchanged to this day, a picturesque anom-
aly—a Highland castle in a typical Austra-
lian landscape. Sylvia is Athol Stewart’s
girl. Her aunt is Mrs. Sydney Jamieson, and
an uncle lives in Paris. The head of
the Playfair branch of the family is
Colonel “Jack,” who did stirring things on
Gallipoli and elsewhere as an artillery officer,
and is now one of the chief panjandrums of
the TJ.A.P. The Bavin Government made
him an M.L.C.
Widespread sympathy is being felt for
Mrs. William Epps and Mrs. Arthur Adams,
whose mother, Mrs. Ninian Patou, died last
week at Neutral Bay. The lady, who was
84, had been a great worker for worthy
causes, and was on the committees of the
Benevolent Society, the Royal Hospital for
Women and the Mothers’ Union. Through-
out the war she never failed to make one
shirt every week and one pair of socks every
fortnight for the local branch of the Red
Cross. Her husband and seven sons, in addi-
tion to her two daughters, are left in mourn-
ing.
By next London mail Sydney will be get-
ting particulars of the marriage of Prudence
Vanbrugh (Bourchier) and Jimmy Dickson.
Prudence toured Australia with auntie Irene
Vanbrugh in the Boucicault company of
1929, and that was when the twain met. Sir-
win be remembered as a tall, dark girl, built
rather on the statuesque plan. The bride-
groom, an old Grammar School boy, is in
the thirties, an accountant and a member of
the firm of D. P. Dickson and Son. He
served at the war in an Imperial unit, and
peace found him with the rank of captain.
When Mrs. Maclurcan hands over her
crown and sceptre and retires from her bright
little kingdom, the Wentworth, the business
life of the city will lose one of its personali-
ties. For 33 years she has managed the
Wentworth, and the fact that she was the
company’s managing director did not prevent
her having and keeping a most intimate
knowledge of the kitchen and larder. There
was nothing on the shelves of the storeroom
that she wasn’t acquainted with. Her regard
for minute detail was not always appre-
ciated by the guests. She hated the back-
less evening frock (it was nearly as fashion-
able, though not quite so backless, some
years ago as it is nbw), and would pounce
with a trail of tulle on any woman display-
ing too much vertebrae in her ballroom. In
those nights the Wentworth ballroom was
the meeting-place for dancing Sydney;
Romano’s and the Ambassadors were not
opened till some time after the Wentworth
Bad proved the cabaret had come to stay.
The Prince of Wales danced there; John
McCormack, D’Alvarez, Toti dal Monte,
Backhaus, Melba—all have had nights of
fun in its cool length; and Clara Butt and
Kennerley Rumford were frequent visitors.
Mrs. Maclurcan will now enjoy at more
leisure her beautiful bungalow at Bilgola,
built on the site of Toby Watt’s old seaside
home. Toby, Ernest’s older brother, was
one of the most popular hosts of a former
generation.
Brisbane bits :
People are still talking- about the Anzac Day
ceremonies, in which 3000 Diggers took part.
Beautiful wreaths were laid on the Shrine of
Remembrance. Before 5 a.m. A.I.F. men had a
special assemblage in the Anzac-square and rendered
their tribute to dead comrades. Administrator Blair
placed his wreath there during the morning, and
Mrs.: Quinn another in memory of her son Major
it. Quinn, of Quinn’s Post, Gallipoli. All places of
amusement were closed for the day.
“Blue Roses” had a great reception and a full
house -in Brisbane. Madge Elliott, in her cream, red
and silver, had to bow and bow again before she
could get on with her part. The Blair couple were
in a. box. with Brigadier-General and Mrs. E. M.
Ralph. All the regular first-nighters attended.
At St. Andrew’s, Toowoomba, Mervyn James
Brown and Elizabeth Muriel Peel were made one.
The bride, who was given away by her father, was
in white silk taffetas with a veil of broidered tulle
and shower bouquet of white roses. Florence Peel
and Gladys Brown ’maided in pale pink with white
lace straw hats. Joy Brown and little T. Hyslop
were trainbearers in blue silk net over satin. The
feast was at the Cafe Alexandria.
Clare Clarke gave an elocutionary recital in the
Albert Hall. The Australian poets featured were
Llywelyn Lucas, Doris Waraker, Emily Bulcock and
M. Forrest. Hubert Coulter played and Don Pringle
sang.
Trinity Church, Valley, saw the wedding of Alan
Knox Denmead and Enid Noel a Harris, B.Sc. The
bride, who was given away by her father, was in
parchment-tinted ivory satin brocaded in silver roses
and a rare old lace veil which had been worn by
her great-grandmother. Louise Crooks, B.Sc., and
Orma Howard Smith, 8.A., ’maided in maize mariette,
and the four-year-old Brian Harris and John Denmead
were pages. Blue and gold, the Queensland Uni.
colors, decked the bride’s home for the party, and
some of the coral collected by Mrs. F. M. Eyers on
the Barrier Reef surmounted the wedding cake.
At All Saints’, Wickham-terrace, C. E. Edwards
and Enid Laliey exchanged vows. The bride, in
angel-skin satin, was given away by her father.
Flocked in green, Margaret Lahey, Rosa Turn-
cock, Kathleen Williams and Sheila Boyle
’maided; Betty Turncock and Jack Turncock were
trainbearers. Green and white, the colors of the
Second Light Horse, the groom’s regiment, decorated
the Lahey house for the party.
In the Water-street Drill Hall, flags, pennants and
shields backed the dance of the 9tli-15th Battalion.
Brigadier-General Brand and Mrs. Brand were there,
accompanied by Colonel and Mrs, J. Hill, the
guests of honor, who arc off to England shortly.
Lieutenant Commander and Mrs. J. C. McFarlane.
Brigadier-General and Mrs. E. M. Ralph, Colonel
and Mrs. F. M. Lorenzo, Lieutenant-Commander and
Mrs. N. S. Pixlev were amongst the throng.


WOODS
GREAT
PEPPERMINT
CURE
For Coughs, Colds
and Influenza.
Never Fails.
Patents.
FRONT WHEEL DRIVEN AUTOMOBILE.
'T’HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 24112/29 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
fo-r the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
FRONT DRIVE AUTOMOBILE.
'T'HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 24111/29 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
WIRE SPRING MAKING MACHINE.
'“THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 13345/28 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OP QUEENSLAND
—ROCKHAMPTON.
1932 No. 2.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice Brennan.
Between FANNY DICKER Plaintiff
And JOSEPH DICKER Defendant.
To the abovenamed JOSEPH DICKER.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court of
Queensland Rockhampton No. 2 of 1932 by FANNY
DICKER of Thangool in the State of Queensland
in which the Plaintiff’s claim is set out in the
Writ of Summons and in the Petition filed herein
is for a dissolution of her marriage with you on the
ground of your continuous desertion and for the
custody of the children of the said marriage AND
THAT it has been ordered that sendee of the
Writ in the said action and of the said Petition
on you be effected by this advertisement and by
filing and posting up in the Registry of this Honor-
able Court at Rockhampton a copy of the said Writ
and a sealed copy of the said Petition and a copy
of the order and' also by serving a copy of the said
Writ and a sealed copy of the said Petition and a
copy of the Order on your father THOMAS DICKER
of Gladstone in the said State. If you desire to defend
the said action you must within sixteen days from
the publication of this advertisement inclusive of
the day of such publication enter an appearance at
the Supreme Court, Rockhampton. In default of
such appearance Judgment may be entered against
you.
Dated this fourteenth day of April, 1932.
(L.s.) J. R. GAIR,
Registrar.
DANIEL P. CAREY, Solicitor, Rockhampton,
Town agent for V. A. J. Byrne,
Solicitor for Plaintiff, Gladstone.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Mrs. Harry Emmerton, president of the
Women’s Auxiliary of the Institute of Pacific
Relations, launched a junior branch of the
institute at a party at her South Yarra
home. Speeches were made by F. W. Eggles-
ton, Prof. Bailey and others. Mrs. Ernest
Scott gave a description of her travels in
China, and Harry Shannon sang. The
cheery scarlet draperies' of the ballroom of
Raveloe chimed nicely with decorations of
gladioli and autumn foliage, and the billiard-
room, where there was supper, was bright-
ened with blossoms blending hues of pink
and mauve. James Watt was elected presi-
dent, with Alastair Mackinnon and Cynthia
Brookes vice-presidents. Elaine and Horsey
Brookes, Natalie Wood, Deidre Grantham,
Shirley Tweddle and Jean Eggleston became
joint hon. secs., and Patricia Hammond, Dar-
rien Baillieu and lan Heath collectively took
over financial duties. Mrs. Emmerton trailed
a gown of black lace with a coat of silvery
sequins. Mrs. Norman Brookes, her daugh-
ter, wore a frock of enamel-green satin.
The Australian Literature Society made
C. J. Dennis and his wife special guests at
a gathering at the Victoria, as a recognition
of the pronounced success of the talkie ver-
sion of “The Sentimental Bloke.” F. W.
Thring, of Efftee Studios, and his wife shared
in the glory. Congratulatory speeches, vocal
and instrumental music and some elocution
filled in the evening. Flowers were handed
to Mrs. Dennis, Mrs. Thring and the Quick
lady.
Here is journalist Erie Cox, whose novel
“Out of the
Silence” lias
run through
three editions,
and will reach a
fourth in May.
This story ap-
peared first as
a serial; then
the author,
who is on the
“Argus” liter-
ary staff, pub-
lished it in
Australia
in book form at
his own ex-
pense. English
and American
editions fol-
lowed. Mr. Cox
is a son of
the late Ross
Cox, who was
in the long
ago a senior inspector of schools in this
State.
Under the direction of Carrie Haase there
was a reading at the Lyceum Club of the
historical play “Elizabeth of England,” by
Fernand Bruchner, adapted from the German
by Ashley Dukes. The lady is represented as
vulgar and common, without morals, bad-tem-
pered, vain, vindictive and bombastic. Miss
Haase, who was swathed in myrtle-green
velvet with a white rose perched on one
shoulder, took the leading role, and ably por-
trayed the variabilities of Gloriana. In
the audience were Robert Best and his lady,
whose daughter Helene was in the cast. Mrs.
Tweddle, Dr. and Mrs. J. A. Newell, Florrie
Green and Miss Gilman Jones.
When Janet, elder daughter of the_ Donald
Swansons, of East St. Kilda, was linked at
the Collins-street kirk to Ivor, only son of
Mr. and Mrs. Ivor Evans, of Camberwell, she
wore a trained gown of ivory satin, over which
floated clouds of white tulle, and carried a
posy of real orange buds. Mo'llie Swanson,
her sister, and Agnes Staley were attendant
’maids, in pastel-blue ninon frocks allied
to brown velvet toques. There were rejoic-
ings afterwards at the Windsor.
Helen, elder daughter of the Norman D.
Harpers, of Camberwell, exchanged vows
with Lionel, son of E. Lionel Wilson, of
South Yarra, wearing Chantilly lace of deep
vellum tint with a topping of tulle of the
same shade. White organdie, with blue velvet
waistbelt and matching blossoms binding her
hair, graced the one ’maid, Sylvia Harper.
Fathers M. McKenna and Barry welded
the bonds between their nephew, Martin
McKenna, and Sheila, elder daughter of
Mrs. C. Bruen, of Hawthorn. A trio of
’maids in lace gowns of golden brown tone
with the same hued velvet hats accompanied
the bride, who chose lace of ivory tint with
a veil of old Limerick lace flowing over clouds
of tulle.
St. John’s, Toorak, was crowded for the
knot-tying of Aimee, eldest daughter of the
Edward 11. Shackells, of South Yarra, and
Robert, son of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Wil-
kins, of the same suburb. The bride was
in magnolia-tinted satin, a wreath of real
orange buds holding her tulle veil in place.
Her sister Shandra, who attended her, was
clad in greenish-blue, and a chaplet of
autumn leaves and berries bound her dark
hair.
The Collins-street kirk saw the wedding
of Alison, younger daughter of the Gerald
Pigotts, of Toorak, and Alexander, only child
of Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Gray, of Geelong.
The bride wore a gown of ivory velvet cut
on princess lines, with a court train of cream
and gold brocade. A lengthy veil of old
Iloniton lace descended from a wreath of real
orange blossoms. Brudenell White’s daughter
Margaret was in attendance, wearing almond-
green velvet with a head-dress of pink roses.
Helen and John McArthur, niece and nephew
of the bride and children of Dr. and Mrs.
G. A. D. McArthur, looked after auntie’s
train and filmy draperies, the small girl in
a Kate Greenaway frock of the same material
as the grown-up ’maid’s, and her brother
with a satin shirt and velvet pants. About
100 guests gathered at a tea party at Men-
zies’ afterwards.
Keith E. Rigg, of cricket fame, took to wife
Elsa, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E. N. Hock-
ing, of Elsternwick. Wearing frocks _of
cream lace, Eva and Bonnie Hocking
attended their sister, whose wedding gown
was chiffon velvet overlaid with a tulle veil.
When Bertha, daughter of the Basil
Haylers, of Camberwell, was linked to Ross,
youngest son of the J. E. Carnegies, she wore
peach-pink chiffon with a velvet hat of the
same shade. Her sister Vera attended her
in pale green organdie and velvet toque.
All pink was the wedding finery of the
bride and her maid when Catherine, youngest
daughter of J. H’. Disney, M.L.C., and Mrs.
Disney, of Albert Park, exchanged vows with
Charles, only son of the D. C. Davidsons, of
St. Kilda. Nude-pink satin made the bridal
gown, with a filmy tulle veil. A tone or two
deeper was the georgette and lace frock of
the bridesmaid. The ceremony took place
at Grammar School Chapel.
Another knot-tying of the week was that
of Cora, daughter of Mrs. ,T. A. Roberts,
of Iverang, and Dr. Norman Hudson Luth,
which took place at the chapel of Scotch
College, Hawthorn. The bride, who was
attended by one ’maid in primrose-flowered
taffeta, wore ivory georgette and tulle.
The Chamber Music Club’s concert in the
Tudor lounge of the Victoria was attended
by the Isaacs lady, who is patroness. She was
welcomed by the president, Mrs. W. Mortill,
who handed her a posy. Brahms’s piano quin-
tette in F minor and a quartette in A minor
by Fritz Kreisler figured on the programme.
Pianist Edward Goll joined the fiddlers in
the Brahms number. In the audience were
the Best lady, Mrs. MacGillicuddy, accom-
panied by her two daughters, and Mrs. 11.
Emmerton.
For a bazaar to aid the Presbyterian Free
Kindergarten the committee furnished the
stalls according to the wants of each period
of the Seven Ages of Man. Beginning with
a section stocked with baby clothes, the
requirements of flappers, brides-to-be, spin-
sters, mothers and grandmothers were
catered for in various departments.
Eileen O’Keefe, the teacher of voice cul-
ture. has established a rendezvous for poets
in Margareta Webber’s bookshop in Little
Collins-street. Members of the circle will
meet once a fortnight. Professor Cowling,
of the Uni., has been enlisted to give the
first reading.
When baritone John Brownlee returns to
Australia in July he will be accompanied by
liis wife, who was the Contessa Carla di
Faletto, and their little daughter. He has
engaged as a supporting artist for his Aus-
tralian tour Rita Miller, one time of Bal-
larat, a coloratura soprano who has had con-
siderable success in opera and on the concert
platform abroad.
On resigning from the secretaryship of
the Arts and Crafts Society, Mrs. Michael
O’Connell was presented with a wallet with
something in it. Edith Thompson has taken
over the secretarial duties.
Pamela, elder daughter of’the O’Dell Orow-
thers, of Toorak, is receiving congratulations
on her engagement to Edward, elder son of
Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Hayne, of South Yarra.
The Principal of the Teachers’ Training
College, Professor L. G. Wrigley, and his
w T ife are travellers to England by the
Ormonde this week.
Mr. and Mrs. D. G. Carnegie are travellers
to Europe by the Comorin, and expect to be
away some months. The lady is president of
the central council of auxiliaries of the
Homoeopathic Hospital.
Congratulations are being showered upon
Eril, eldest daughter of the late Neville
Howse and the Howse lady, of South Yarra,
and Raynes, elder son of the Raynes Dick-
sons, of Toorak, upon their engagement.
Dr. Elizabeth Bryson, of Maoriland,
looked in on friends here on her way to
Europe. She is president of the Federation
of Uni. Women of N.Z., and is going to
Edinburgh to attend a conference. She
afterwards intends to undertake research
study in Vienna.
Pictured here
by Broothorn
is Irma,
daughter of the
A. B. Janetz-
kis, of Mal-
vern. She was
for a while a
National Gal-
lery student,
and has a flair
for* the design-
ing of theatri-
cal costumes
and settings.
Her first big
chance was
the prepara-
tions of scenes
for the Firm’s
production of
“Happy and
Glorious,” in
which the
back grounds
were furnished by slides projected from a
lantern in the dome of the theatre.
The Uni. Con. has suffered a loss in the
death of F. W. Homewood, who trained
many brilliant pianists. He was a pupil of
Professor Haver, formerly Ormond Professor,
and was a born teacher, getting the very best
out of his students and winning their affec-
tion and admiration. Two of his pupils,
Marshall Sumner and Vera Bradford, have
made names for themselves in the U.S.A.
and Doris Ross is holding her own in Eng-
land. Elsie Fraser and Gordon McKeown
came under his. guidance, and so did John
Simons, who graduated as Mus. Bac. this
month.
Perhaps in days to come Australia may do
in honor' of Henry Lawson what Scotland
has just done in honor of Bobbie Burns.
Midway between Mossgiel and Mauchline, in
the heart of the Burns country, there has
recently been erected a memorial which is
a practical expression of the Scottish poet’s
sympathy for the aged and misfortunate. It
takes the form of a tower museum for Burns
relics, and 16 comfortable cottages, whose
occupants are fine, deserving old couples
fallen on bad days. The cottages are rent-
and tax-free, and are in every respect the
homes of the dwellers, who are given a money
allowance each year. This is the first move-
ment in the world to do something in a per-
manent form in memory of Burns for the
benefit of the living. And any poet the
world over would rather be so remembered
than by rows of glorified statues of himself.
Here’s another hospital yarn fram Gavutu.
A Cockney bos’n on one of the steamers
came to authority one day and said he was
very ill. Authority signed the necessary
chit and passed him on to Tulagi hospital,
but in a few hours he was back, sweating
with anxiety as much as temperature. He
said at the hospital they had told him the
men’s ward was full, and they wanted to
shove him into blasted Eternity ward. But
not if he knew it, thank you!
The lady in
a e r onautical
regalia is Mrs.
Chambers, wife
of Dr. J. F.
Chambers, of
Toorak, wear-
ing the smile
of the victor
after winning
the Oaks race
for women
pilots at the
Aero Club
pageant. She
took up flying
just 11 months
ago under the
Aero Club
auspices, and
has proved a
very apt pupil.
When Bertha,
youngest
daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. S. Schwartz, of St. Ivilda,
wedded Dr. Ernest Kirsner she had as atten-
dants Mrs. Rosenfield, wife of Dr. Clifford
Rosenfield, as matron of honor, and little
Nona Benjamin, in pink taffeta, as train-
bearer. White flat crepe, long and flowing
of line, made the bride’s gown, which had
furbishings of white tulle and gardenias.
Chiffon of mushroom-pink hue and a small
hat of brown velvet were favored of Mrs.
Rosenfield. After the ceremony at the St.
Kilda synagogue about 200 guests offered
congratulations at a reception at No. 9.
Adelaide activities:—
Adelaide could hardly believe it wasn’t dreaming
when it saw £2OOO-odd raised in an hour and a
half at the Angorichina flower festival in the Exhibi-
tion Building. Something special was looked for at
the closing of the voting for the rose queens, but
scarcely a shower of banknotes and fat cheques in
these days of depression. Then there were the
people, some thousands in the galleries, who cast
smaller money into all the tin buckets held out to
them. The lighting effects were in the hands of the
Theatre Royal operator, so that beautiful frocking
was seen to the best advantage. It was without
exception the most successful charitable effort that
Adelaide has seen, the total result being over
£4500.
At the Licensed Victuallers’ meeting at Victoria
Park, emerald green and pillar-box red were very
popular. Mr. W. A. Piper (chairman) and his
vivacious wife entertained at afternoon tea, she in
a (black tailored suit and black hat with a touch
of green.
The garden party in aid of St. Mary’s Hostel,
held in the grounds of Mr. T. R. Scarfe’s residence,
Eden Park, brought in £3O. The pupils of Miss
Nora Stewart gave several special dances on the
lawn, and a marquee was erected for afternoon tea.
Mrs. Scarfe supplied the orchestra. The arrange-
ments were in the hands of the Catholic Women’s
League, of which Mrs. J. V. O’Loghlin is president.
The inauguration ball of the Y.A.L. was held at
the Palais Royal. The Premier and Mrs. L. L. Hill
were present. Mrs. E. Angas Johnson (patron) and
Mrs. F. Villeneuve Smith (president) both brought
large parties of young people. The Y.A.L. has
caught on well in South Australia, parents from all
parts having arranged for their daughters to take
advantage of the next trip to the Eastern States
and Canberra. Mrs. Johnson suggested the .dance as
an opportunity for them all to get acquainted.
The Adelaide University Dance Club has once
again burst into activity; at its opening dance
the joint presidents, Dr. and Mrs. Rex Matters,
presided and received the guests, Mrs. Matters wear-
ing a wine-toned lace and georgette toilette.
Members of the English-Speaking Union had an
evening, on Thursday at the Wentworth, when Mr.
Geoffrey Samuel, of the Waite Institute, lectured
upon a visit to America. Mrs. Charles Todd and Mr.
George McEwin received, Mrs. Mellis Napier being
unable to be present.
Mrs. Lavington Bonython left for England by the
Comorin last week with her mother, Mrs. S. B.
Rudall. Mrs. Bonython should benefit by the sea
voyage; she was in hospital prior to her departure,
the penalty of her indefatigable work for charity.
Her last effort, the ball at the Palais Royal in aid
of the Mothers’ and Babies’ Health Association,
brought in £155,
Westralia weighs in:—
Vice-Admiral Nobujiro Imamura provided some-
thing novel in decorations for the at-home on the
H.I.J.M.S. Asama. Nooks and crannies were con-
verted into scenes from Cherry-blossom Land; here
was a temple in colorful setting, with a diminutive
worshipper leaving the pagoda; there, snowclad
Fujiyama formed a background for a picturesque
suburb of Kyoto; in another place a miniature
bridge crossed a mountain stream. Tea was served
at tables adorned with tiny living pine-trees, and
exhibitions, of fencing and .wrestling were given.
Miss Northmore was in deep blue georgettes showing
beige relief; Mrs. Griffiths Bowen’s cocoa wool crepe
was brightened with tangerine touches; the Lathlain
lady’s furs were worn over navy blue, which harmon-
ised with daughter Joy’s floral satins; the Witte-
noom lady was clad in sombre satin, and Mary
Gibson introduced a note of color by topping grey-
flecked tweed with a scarlet hat.
A warm reception and floral tributes galore marked
Gertrude Hutton’s first professional appearance in
Perth. The mezzo-contralto’s fine voice rang through
the crowded Karrakatta Club Hall, and her gold
satin frock, bustled and knee-flared, gleamed richly
against the palmed dais. Tunes by Handel, Donaudy,
Arne Purcell and others were trilled with skilful
ease,’ and Nora Coalstead’s pianoforte solos were
competently given.
Karringup was the first of the golf clubs to open
the season officially; the beautiful club rooms were
resplendent with masses of crimson dahlias. Lunch
parties with bridge to follow were almost as popular
as the stroke competition. Mrs. English Clarke
wore restful sienna tweeds; Mrs. Learmonth was
imposing in black suiting, parchment shirt waist and
natty Glengarry hat; Captain Mis. Farmer drove
her ball in lime-green woollens; Vice-Captain Mrs.
Roy Mitchell mashied in beige sweater and skirt
and brown pull-on; Mrs. John Forrest appeared
flag-like with George blue suit, scarf and hat, all
brightly banded in red. Justice Dwyer’s lady putted
nobly in suede golfer and brown tweed skirt, and
Hilda Lee Steere matched the greens with her
shamrock coat and hat and grey woollen skirt.
Murky black rose-patterned chiffons garbed Anita
Fitz Gerald when she presided over the Shakspeare
Club’s first social. Alma Urquhart, Kath Brennan
and Leo Pollett made music; Mr. H. S. Thomson
lectured on the art of reading; Maude Dingwall,
as Katharine, and other dub members gave a scene
from “Henry VIII.”
Mrs. C. P. Smith’s garden party saw the election
of “Miss Press” and “Miss Print” for the Wool Week
festivities. The entrants were clad in garments made
by themselves at a cost not exceeding 305., and
many an enviable gown was worn. Dot Howe’s
brown and beige outfit collected first place, and
Bonnie Spencer’s crimson basque effect was second.
After the judging, Mrs. Smith, in navy georgettes,
offered delectables to the guests, witli daughter
Betty, in prawn-pink wool do Chine, and Ina
Randall, a claret velvet nymph, passing round the tea.
Through Speck specs:—
Kitty, younger daughter of the F. K. Pitts, of Glen
Dhu, Ouse, married V, L. Wettenhall, of Elphinstone-
road, Hobart, at All Saints’. The Rev. F. Keyran
l’itt did the splicing. The bride wore a frock of
ivory-embossed chiffon velvet, with a little plumed
hat. A small dinner party of immediate relatives
was held at Hadley’s after the ceremony.
Rain poured down at the T.R.C. meeting at Elwick
and made the attendance a thin one. Chairman
and Mrs. Tom Lyons dispensed refreshment in the
pavilion, Mrs. Lyons wearing a deep sapphire cloth
coat and skirt. The guests included the ex-Gov. of
Queensland and his lady and the Alan Andersons
with their two girls.
Dr. Max Clemons has returned to Launceston from
the Cold Country, where he lias been taking post-
graduate courses.
Mrs. J. Douglas and daughter Jane (Launceston)
are skipping the Speck’s winter months and seeking
sunshine in Java and Singapore.
The Launceston Golf Club engineered a very
cheery dance at the club-house. The decorations
were in .pink and deep-red cosmos and dahlias.
Funds went towards the affiliated tennis club, four
young members of which were responsible for the
arrangements. They were Mollie Thyne, Peggy
Williamson, Dot Wylie and Winsome Warren.
Mrs. Mclntyre and Mrs. Fred Grant are back from
Colombo. Mrs. Ross Reynolds went on for a trip
to England. Mrs. G, Minette Lucas has returned
from a visit to Sydney. ,
Enid, daughter of Col. J. E. C. and Mrs. Lord,
Derwentwater, and Francis P. O’Meagher, Bellerive,
announce their engagement.
Margaret Peacock and Agnes Blackwood left by
the Orama for a six months’ trip to the Cold
Country. Mrs. Charlie Eady and daughter Mollie
will be. the next to flit (by the Mongolia), and
expect to be away for about the same period.


A
JZ.
*9<S
W
SB
\
( V'
m
mm
m
m
M
\
/
®wl/
DM©
gAIL Leading
chemists sell
RADIO-MALT
in jars of two
convenient
sizes
rrrrrafr.
EVERY
member of Ihe family—
Father and Son, Molher
and Daughter—fakes the
daily spoonful.
If builds up fheir resisfance
and keeps them healthy
during limes of stress.
RADIO-HALT
THE VITAMIN MALT FOOD
If your chemist does not stock Radio-Malt, write to
THE BRITISH DRUG HOUSES (Australia) LTD., 250 Pitt St., Sydney.
<r jL Charm of the
PACIFIC
INLANDS*
For less than the cost
of a city holiday!
EXCURSION FARES
(NO EXCHANGE)
SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days, Ist Class Return, £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class Return, £75
Seven-weeks’ Tour .... Cabin,, „ £55
. RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Twenty-three Days’ Tour, Ist Class Return, £45
Via Wellington, N.Z... Cabin,, ~ £34
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and
Rarotonga . . Ist Class Return, £55
Seven-weeks’ Tour .. Cabin,, ' „ ■ £4O
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Melbourne.
ŵ
Every 500
Miles of Travel
The ALEMITE System
of Lubrication certainly
solves the problem of fric-
tion. Keep your bearings
clean eliminate sand,
grit and dirt—and you pos-
itively eliminate friction.
Friction isthe cause of hard
riding, squeaking cars.
The ALEMITE Pressure Lubrication Gun, illustrated
on the right, forces ALEMITE Lubricant, a pure solid-
ified oil—under tremendous pressure—right into the
bearings. All dirt, sand and grit is forced out—
leaving the bearings clean and perfectly lubricated.
Don’t forget to watch your lubrication as carefully as you watch
your petrol supply—every 500 miles—it is really more important.
ALEMITE CORPORATION Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554’ George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives: K-AUST-3
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd. . . 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd. Brisbane
ATKINS (W. A.), Ltd. .... 894 Hay Street, Perth
E- A. MACHIN & CO. (Ply) Ltd. . 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED .... 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
m
II
i
LUBRICANTS & SYSTEMS
OF
LUBRICATION
Dad and Dave See the Bridge Opened.
BY STEELE RUDD.
“T TERE they kuk-kuk-come! Sarah’s
I—l met them all r-r-right,” Joe announced
A JL excitedly a s Tin Lizzie came in sight,
rattling down the wide lane, loaded up with
Dad and Dave, two ports, several empty
cream-cans, a supply of groceries from the
store, ana Sarah, flashed and hatless, at the
Mother, wiping her hands on her apron,
ran out to the gate. Joe in advance of her
threw it open wide; then, waving his liat.
raised a cheer as the loaded car slowed
down. ...
“Cripes,” Dave said, putting his feet on
the ground before greeting anyone, and turn-
ing and easting his eye over the dusty, bat-
tered frame of Tin Lizzie, “that was a tast
spin, Sarah! She’s better’n all your
sulkies, eh? We haven’t got to take th
harnish off her an’ give her a feed like a
liorse !”
“Well, I’m dern glad I am to get out of
her alive, that’s all I feel!” Dad grunted,
stepping out into the arms of Mother.
“You’re back safe again, Father,” the
latter welcomed fondly, taking a parcel from
his hands.
“Back to y’ again, Mother,” he repeated,
“an’ brought y’ th’ noo bonnet I promised.”
“Oh, what did you bother for. Father?”
she protested mildly; but her eyes lit up with
v .
j'jy . #
“And Dave’s got a pair of silk stockings
for Jin >,i S pSrt,” in rah exulted, leaviu,
ee ‘ , ’ i , , , »
He m-m-must have had plenty m-m-
k money to s-s-spend. fiom Joe.
“Dave’s not like you when he goes any-
where,” Sarah reminded him. “He thinks
of someone besides himself!”
Joe pulled a face at her.
“Oh, you’ll see them in a second, Sarah,”
Dave grinned, ambling lightly off with the
])ort
, , . ~. „ „
An, how M d > us g-f.-gt a -
°£ th Br-br-bridt,e. Joe, st S
with Dad s port, asked as they a 1 e te
trie house. _
“The crowd of people that were at it was
thicker than mobs of sheep, Mother!” Sarah,
who had gained a lot of information on the
way from the railway station, answered.
“There never was nothing like, it before.
“B-b hut you wasn’t there,” Joe objected,
.Toe had no faith in second-hand informa-
tion. x
“Weren’t they, Father?’” Sarah appealed
to Dad. “And miles and miles of motor-
cars, one behind the other.”
“One behind the other!” Daye guffawed.
“Th’ bloomin’ motor-cars were • on top of
each other, an’ on th’ footpaths, an’ runnin’
over y’, an’ runnin’ over th’ police! An’
people—— Cripes, people thicker’n sheep.”
“An’ n dern siorit «tonnidor t” from Dad
ax he n e,«ttdropped tato a
chair. “Y’ can dh somethin’ with a mob o’
sheep;.but th’ mobs o’ people in Sydney go
maa \ ■ . ,
‘There w-w-was m-m-mighty. big crowds
when you mi m-m-mc was down, too D-
Dad. ’ Joe put in. Joe didn t want Dave
to monophlise the glory.
“Gripes,” Dave sneered—“nothin’ to th* 1
openin’ of the Bridge, man!” A Aiid stooping
over his port he began unstrapping it for
Sarah’s benefit. Sarah herself knelt expec-
tantly beside it. She wasn’t eager to hear
any more about the Bridge-opening just
‘ .... ,
, If they w-w-was thicker than m-m-mobs
jested, they d hare
“Cripes, an’ didn’t they?” said Dave, tug-
gfng at t j ie “We’ll tell y’ about it
d i rect i y< »
« It were won derful, Mother,” Dad assured
her solemnly. “Brilliant, that’s what it
were! Th’ Governor come; an’ tli’ Governor-
General, an’ Lyons an’ Lang sittin’ together,
an’ twenty-one guns were fired!”
“Only tw-tw-twenty-one, Dad?” Joe looked
surprised. “Why, there w-w-was fifty
f-f-follows here sh-shootin’ hares, an’ they
all had g-g-guns and f-f-fired ’em all day.”
. “Cripes. listen to him!” said Dave pity-
ingly, as he looked up from the port.
“Oh, hurry up, Dave!” Sarah urged. '
“it were th’ greatest engineerin’ triumph,
Mother!” Dad added in liis wisest air.
“It were engineerin’ gen’us, didn’t they
say, Dad?” Dave supplemented, standing
upright again, while Sarah pulled open the
port, and began searching its packed con-
tents for her silk stockings.
“Maybe ifc were!’’ Dad allowed,
An it were what the Sydney people
dreamed about for fifty year”—further from
13‘iVG *r ■ i '*
\ (rr '. ~,,,, . . ,
*
“Cripes, though,” Dave enthused, forget-
ting Sarah and the port, “you should have
seen the women faintin’ where me an’ Dad
an’' th’, old .Governor were sittin’, when th’
hands started playin’ an’ th’ military blokes
in their uniforms an’ swords stood to ’ten-
tion! Holy! They popped off one after
another, flopnin’. down, same as birds out o’
trees m a, heat-wave. An .th amberlance
brigade makin for em . with . medipme-
bottles, an’ boldin’ up their heads, an’ .givm’
’em mouthfuls of whatever was in ’em, an’
feelin’ their hearts, an’ rubbin’ their hands,
and jq ien liftin’-’em to their feet arid leadin’
’em through the crowd when the John Hops
ma de a way.”
“The poor things!”. Mother sighed,
“An’, cripes,” Dave remembered, “they
CO uldn’t make a way for some o’ them. They
had to pass lots o’ big fat. ones lengthways.
like butchers handlin’ carcases, over th’
heads of th’ crowd, who held up, their hands
to help, and looked pretty frightened of ’em
failin’ on ’em, too!”
Sarah suddenly interrupted Dave, “Who-
ever did you buy these for?” she laughed.
displaying . a gorgeous colored garment she
oad round in a, parcel. . .
H^ er ®-, Cripes. ’ And Dave snatched the
dishevelled parcel from her and stuffed it
11S a rm. They re not for anyone.
What dld 5’ buy them for, then?” Sarah
“tE
d P
1 We hadn - t heard Dad laugh so boisterously
for years. “We thought they was silk
stockings, gal,” he explained, still chuckling,
“We found ’em in th’ train, and only looked
a t ’em through a hole in th’ paper.”
Then Sarah looked disappointed, and said
“it couldn’t have been much to see the openin’
of the old Bridge, after all!”
Looking Backward.
’Tis hardly a matter of commonsense —
Is love ever that at all?
Two there were who went their way
Beyond the Doorless Wall.
And that is the end of the tale, you say,
It was all so long ago!
And yet, for one, it was not the end —
I do not think, but I know.
You talk of passion, and babble, too,
Of wisdom and commonsense!
What do you know of love who prate
Of pounds and shillings aiid pence?
Love doesn’t keep such company,
Love doesn’t sink so low!
(Two there were who ventured all
In a city long ago.)
lie came, on a splendid Asian night—
801 l back, O ye centuries!
Give me again those hours that flamed
In Ur of the Chaldees!
Alas, alas, for the passion-flower
That bloomed in the age-old way.
For tall, grave men, for women frail,
For one who lives to-day!
The buried ruins but remain,
And these old memories ;
Fallen, fallen every tower,
In Ur of the Chaldees.
N.s.w.
MARJORIE QUINN.
The Bed.
So, at last, the hubbub
Dies in the empty street;
There’s an end to silly greetings,
There’s a halt for limping feet.
Calm now, and untroubled,
I rest my weary head ;
They spread the dark-brown coverlet,
And I lie in a warm bed.
Good night to all ambition,
And the glamor of the pen!
Good-night, the lesser wisdom
1 find in greater men!
Surcease to pain and anger,
The wounds of which I bled,
They draw the dark-green curtains,
And I seek my narrow bed.
Welcome, the long oblivion.
Welcome, 1 the setting sun !
Praise for a focman vanquished;
Praise, too, a race well run.
Freed, now and for ever,
From need to earn my bread
(They smooth my clay-grey pillow),
I rest in a quiet bed.
Closing the dusty windows,
Leaving the empty house
To be entered by some stranger,
Or be prey to bat and mouse;
In thick unbroken darkness,
As the noisy day is sped,
They softly snuff the tapers
And I sleep in my last bed.
QUEENSLAND.
J. W. H. PEARSON.


The HUMAN SIDE
OF BUSINESS
The creation of business calls into activity many human qualities. This is necessarily so because
there are always two people in every transaction, the buyer and the seller, and the relationship
between these two is often just as important as the article or service which passes from one to
the other. The first impression, the approach to each other of the parties concerned, the general
conduct before, after and during the transaction, have a direct bearing not only on the individual
transaction, but also on all future dealings. Messrs. Hemingway and Robertson, under their
Personal Individual Tuition Method, offer four special courses to those engaged in the important
work of selling and distributing goods and service. They are practical and modern, they are kept
thoroughly up to date, and they are of inestimable service to those who are already engaged or
desire to be engaged in that side of business which brings us into direct contact with humanity.
ENGLISH AND
PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT
Good English, either written or spoken, is a
personal attribute which can be acquired. It is a
valuable accomplishment, making possible two
qualities most useful in all our dealings with others
—Clearness and Tactfulness.
Effective expression is a decided asset. It aids
the Executive, Salesman, Advertiser, the Corres-
pondent, the Lady Secretary, and is a necessary
attribute to those in responsible positions. There
are few leaders who cannot express themselves
well. If you want to be a leader, the H. & R.
English Course will help you, quickly arid pleas-
antly, to one of the essential qualifications, an
understanding of the proper use of our mother
tongue.
SALESMANSHIP
Future business will be definitely an age for
intensive sales activity. The H. &R. Salesmanship
Course covers all the ground, and is based on
soundest English and Australian practice. It is
offered as a positive means by which ambitious
men can rise to greater success. T his practical
Course covers such essentials as the actual contact
with the customer, building and holding goodwill,
the organisation of sales territory, and the ele-
ments of sales management. The Course definitely
provides a plan to help salesmen, managers and
merchandising executives.
BUSINESS
CORRESPONDENCE
A most important factor in all our business
relationships is Effective Letter-writing. Through it
custom is influenced, accounts collected, goods
sold, complaints adjusted, and commercial goodwill
strengthened.
Mail publicity is now effectively used to create
and retain business or to establish new processes or
ideals. In fact, many great establishments conduct
business entirely by mail order.
The ability to write a good letter embodying
the use of the English language in a simple, accu-
rate and graceful manner, and so expressed as
to create a favorable impression and secure the
desired result, is one of the most important and
essential accomplishments which anyone in busi-
ness can possess
ADVERTISING
The H. & R. Advertising Course is practical.
The principles of advertising and its practice are
made clear in concise language and by numerous
illustrations, whilst its classification and arrange-
ment make study and reference extremely easy.
The sections given over to the theory of advertising
expose the pitfalls into which the most experienced
business man, unless warned, may fall, whilst
those on the practice of advertising deal adequately
with technique and management. Let us send you
particulars.
GET THIS BOOK POST FREE
"PRESTIGE & PROFIT"
The four Courses so briefly outlined in this
announcement are described fully in a handbook,
“Prestige & Profit,” a copy of which will be posted
free to those interested. Just complete the form
below, stating the subject or subjects in which you
are specially interested.
MMi
:i •*
- H.t. ga g
WXwXXX'X+'-yX
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON
The Accountancy —Secretarial Specialists
HEAD OFFICES: 38 BARRACK HOUSE. 16 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
38 BANK HOUSE, BANK PLACE, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Newcastle, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart, Launceston
ẁ
SPECIALIST TUITION iNt
Accountancy
Secretaryship
Cost Accountancy
Banking and
Securities
Bankers’ Exams
Insurance
Municipal Exams.
Scientific Marketing
and Merchandising
Advertising
Salesmanship
Commercial
Bookkeeping
Farm and Station
Bookkeeping
Effective English
and Personal
Development
Correspondence
Handwriting
Arithmetic
Business Shorthand
All Business Subjects
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE
Training for Executives
WHAT DOES THE £5OOO-A-
-YEAR MAN KNOW THAT
THE £5OO-MAN DOESN'T?
He does not have ten times the know-
ledge and ability—indeed, he does well to
be one-tenth or one-quarter ahead. .Just
why, then, is he worth ten times more
y
This' seemingly small difference is in the
tremendously important things the abilitj
to size up a situation and make right de-
cisions—the capacity to generate ideas the
power to lead men. Call it what you will,
in the last analysis, it is a clear understand-
ing of the fundamental principles ot com-
merce and industry, and the ability to apply
them to specific situations.
TWO WAYS.
Some men try to prepare for executive
success the long, burdensome way througn
personal day-by-day experience in each phase
of business. It can be done. „ ,
But most men outlive their usefulness
before they can complete the plan-—and have
nothing to show but empty years of experi-
ence. And the few that do win the race
with time pay an extravagant price tor
victory. ...
Others—and their number is increasing
—take the shorter and surer way.
No needless pioneering for them —'they
capitalise on the experience of men who are
already successful. No trial-and-error
methods, either—they learn the fundamental
principles that underlie all business, and
apply these fundamentals to their own
problems. Thus they gain in minutes the
lessons that years of experience have taught.
They learn to think —and act —on funda-
mentals ; they become “management minded.
ACQUIRING
THAT 10 PER CENT. EDGE.
If you are farsighted enough to prefer
the short cut, you will be interested in the
Alexander Hamilton Institute Course and
Service, built with the aid of the world s
outstanding business leaders. More than
training in fundamentals, it is—actually—
their boiled-down experience, the principles
methods and practices which have proved
thoroughly practical and effective for them.
A vast amount of material to begin with,
it has been tested, condensed, and then
organised into a most interesting and
immediately usable form. Combined with
the unique Alexander Hamilton Institute
Plan, this training can save you years ot
struggle. It can add that needed fraction
of ability which spells the answer to your
future —the edge which sets you above your
competitors and associates in value and
income. , . , TT
The time to make this short cut is NOW-
In the cold, clear light of present con-
ditions management ability looms up greater
than •ever before. Mediocrity has shown its
true colors, and the incompetent have been
weeded out. Depression demands—and re-
turning prosperity will continue to demand —
more competent executives.
FIRST, READ A HELPFUL
BOOK.
No matter what branch of business you
re in, as long a« you are an executive or
otential executive, you will be intensely
aterested in our new brochure, WHAi
lN EXECUTIVE SHOULD KNOW.’’ It
iscusses this matter of management ability,
nd reveals the methods various leaders have
sed to develop it. It contains many ideas
bout executive management that will be of
alue to you personally.
Sent without cost or obligation to any
man of adult years genuinely interested.
Write for your copy to-day.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE
DIVISION OF HEMINGWAY AND
ROBERTSON,
38 Barrack House,
Barrack Street, Sydney.
38 Bank House,
Bank Place, Melbourne.
Also at all other capital cities and 'Newcastle.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia's Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which I enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/*
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/*; 6 months. 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
'$° (r
p
0
sS*
0°
6
1>
& 1
s®
>3^
*>
b
■■ p*jy& vV S* 6


see
ẃ
Notice how the All-Weather Tread blocks are
extended down the sidewalls to provide extra
safety in ruts and on muddy roads. This
striking feature also marks a fresh and dis-
tinguished note in tyre styling.
NEW IMPROVED
GOODYEAR STANDARD ALL-WEATHER
before uou biuj fures !
**2
\9
-V
°J
ss
0
i
increase in price BUT-
II Great Improvements
1 Its centre non-skid design is cut 10% deeper.
2 Its shoulder non-skid design is 50% deeper.
3 Its non-skid blocks are placed with wider
grooves.
4 It has full centre traction, eliminating the
submerged centre rib.
5 Its non-skid blocks have slightly rounded
points for slower wear.
5 Its riding ribs are braced on the outside, as
on the latest truck tyres.
* 7 Outer non-skid blocks are braced on outer
edges, as on latest truck tyres.
8 The sidewalls are embellished with two de-
corative ribs.
8 The outer non-skid blocks are strikingly
prismed into the sidewalls.
10 In all sizes cross sections are made equal to
Heavy Duty measurements.
11 These changes in design make the whole tyre
heavier—bigger.
Do not buy before you see this 1932 Model Tyre—
the New Improved Goodyear Standard All-Weather.
Y V*
£>P?
G° l p)**
Recent 30%
Reduction in
Tube Prices
now enables you
to give your tyres the good tubes
they deserve —
GOODYEAR TUBES
IIIJII
¥
&
1
sr
a?
L
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
CB-13-32
