

e
è
: :
. : : i
as*
iiStM:
iiiiis
* .*
i
if
•. 'if
m
I •
s.
'wa>
.S *'
* ***
Wm
«* '
SS39&
sa!
ifeK
m
:■: 'I
wmmm
w
MtMHi
k^J
);
V'.-; >
4
!'$
:
£8
life
Wmpm
'J/
$
&
;; .'»
HP
a
I®
J
§ • M
I
:*g
mmM
mm
V
! ii
M
rs
EASTER SPECIAL!
Save £l5 on this £25
f / 3.5 Cine-Kodak
At £lO this represents the
biggest home movie bargain in
history ! Just in time for you
to make your own priceless
records of the opening of the
Sydney Harbour Bridge, of
Easter and the holidays—re-
cords in living motion—pre-
serving forever the glamor and
pageantry of the occasion.
It’s a genuine Cine-Kodak! No
crankings —no tripod —just sight
and press the release. High-speed
//3.5 anastigmat lens, with auto-
matic exposure guide. No experi-
ence necessary. Good movies certain
from the very first. Only a few left •
make certain of yours! Remember the
price—only £lO.
Full details of prices ruling in New Zea-
land can be obtained from branches of
Kodak New Zealand Ltd.
For snapshots we have a mag-
nificent range of models from
which to select —Brownies from
io/-; Pocket Kodaks from
26/6; Folding Hawk-Eyes from
42/6. Specially recommended
for holiday use the Beau
Brownie, with decorated front
in colors, with case to match,
30/-. A most delightful gift.
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS AND 7
(AUSTRALASIA) f
PTY. LTD. '
379 George Street, Sydney; "The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne. Cl ; 250-252 Queen Street, Brisbane;
3 7 Bundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; 662 Hay Street, Perth ; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba :
East Street, Rockhampton; Flinders Street, Townsville.
Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND LTD. 162 Queen Street, Auckland; 40 Princess Street, Dunedin;
294 Lambton Quay, Wellington; 68 I Colombo Street, ChristchurchA
KODAK
The Bulletin
PHLcti ! •— & &
Vol. 53.—N0. 2717.
Wednesday, March 9, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


QUR Library Catalogue will bo forwarded,
with full terms and particulars post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424*426 George Street, Sydney,
Iffil
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence Colleae
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obliaation. vour Ifew Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explainin'’
your Muscular Movement. System of Writing
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My S ame
My Address
S.B. 332
UYSAGHT?
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the* best imported.
to
V rtiiUMpHiv
oiNTMEh. Y
icura
r
V""0 \ jTALCUM
OyT SQAP A
\
(JL AS>
For over half a century
Cuticura Preparations
have heen known and sold
over all the world, and they
are just as popular today as
ever: the Soap for regular
toilet use, the Ointment
to heal skin troubles and
the Taleum as a finishing
touch to the toilet.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE AGE”
Established, 1854•
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space. •
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of cave
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,"
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Hates on application to the principal service
agents ir; all States, orv
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
l/ondon Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Specie*/ Announcement
to Nationa/Advertisers
pe Iflemiry
1 asmania s Aational Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following :—■
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney
’Phone: 8W51.79. J
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Buildinu
household paces
SOCIAL NOTES-ALL STATES.'
LAOYS LONDON LETTER
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD.
ii Etc- Etc. Etc. H
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES 62
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH"
' IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” la re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, arid its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
Planned for the
Sportsmen of
tyew Zealand
the new Zealand
Referee
is published to satisfy the popular
demand among sportsmen of New
Zealand for a weekly budget of
official and "up-to-the-minute”
Sporting News. An intense reader
interest is the result.
It means that the “N.Z. Referee"
gives you a wide and free spending
market for your goods. Reasonable
space rates are a feature of the ser-
vice, and your interest is invited.
Inquire from all leading advertising
agencies, or to
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
'Phone: 85241.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander" Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London’
W.C.2. where they can see the home papers’
meet tlieir friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
ho obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency. Ltd.; 54a Pitt Street, Sydney • or
403-D5 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
“Wealthy Lower Orders”
All the contributors to the Hogarth Press
Letters series have something interesting to
say, being hand-picked celebrities; but it
has been left to Francis Birrell to produce
a message with an Australian application.
His Letter from, a Black Sheep (Leonard
and Virginia Woolf; Is.) might have been
addressed to those whom the president of
the N.S.W. Society of Artists (S. Ure
Smith) and the “S. M. Herald” accused of
Philistinism the other day. The Black Sheep
is a Bohemian member of a Midland carpet-
manufacturing family who has unpatrioti-
cally settled in France; and his letter is to
the head of the business, which is going
downhill. England, it seems, has lost the
habit of building beautifully, and London
is nearly as bad as the provinces:—
Most of the things I liked best you have pulled
down since my last visit—Regent-street, the
Foundling Hospital, the best parts of Trafalgar-
square. What barbarians you are!... . At any rate
when the Germans pull down something old they
put up something really modern in its place;
when your architects pull down a real row of
Georgian houses they erect a pastiche of them on
the site, and call the result “Luxury flats.”
He has nothing but praise for the Tate,
and for the improvements in the National
Gallery; but then Londoners no more crowd
to such places than Sydneyites do to their
National Gallery. His relations sneered at
all American films (like so many stupid
Australians), and urged him to patronise
the screen masterpieces of Shaw and Lons-
dale, so he took their advice:—
Good God! You dare to pitch into the Americans
when you can, yourself, only produce these miserable
photographic versions of worn-out West End comedies.
He was outraged by the English censor-
ship. But what would he have said of
ours? Madame Depres, president of the
French circle of the Sydney Lyceum Club,
revealed recently that one of Colette’s
books which “received a glowing review in
the ‘Times Literary Supplement’ ” had been
banned in Australia! How accurately this
expresses the situation in scores of Aus-
tralian suburbs and country towns!
Your society is inconceivably antiquated. You’re
aJI tied up in snobbery, my dear John, tied up in
it till you can hardly breathe. You spend your
life aping a social system which no longer has any
real existence. That awful word “Gentleman” kept
cropping up at every moment. Everybody in
Middlemarch fusses incessantly as to whether he is
more of a gentleman than his neighbor.
Mr. Birrell attributes the slump in English
prestige, which is almost, as marked on the
Continent as in India and Africa, to recent
developments of the public-school system.
Most of the public schools were either
started or re-born in the second" half of the
nineteenth century.
For 60 years they have ‘ provided the English
governing class, and we can see what’s happened
in the state of your business. I understand that
even the secondary schools are now trying to start
a sort of imitation Cadet Corps to breed a team
spirit, and all the familiar rubbish.
The point of view will shock some, but
it is that of a brilliant Englishman who
states facts as he sees them. His indict-
ment applies with such startling fidelity
to thousands of Australians because, as
Higinbotham recognised, our upper classes
are the opposite numbers, culturally, of the
English middle classes.
In Retreat
G. Spenser Pryce, whose Four Days (The
Bodley Head; 7s. 6d.) has just appeared,
is yet another artist who writes well. He
was lunching at No. 10 Downing-street at
the beginning of the war, and wangled a view
of it through Mrs. Asquith. It says some-
thing for his patriotism that he joined up
shortly afterwards. He took the four days
of the title to motor from Boulogne to
Paris, via Amiens, with Sous-Lieutenant
Bertrand, of the French Army, and an
English chauffeur, named Millar. His book
is written in lightsome vein, and there
isn’t a “bloody” in it, yet it has plenty
of pen-pictures of soldiers, British and
French, seen under agonising conditions.
He had a trying time himself. For about
half his trip he was in enemy territory
or on the edge of it; the British were bolt-
ing, and he kept meeting deserters of his
own race. In a farmhouse near Saint-Pol he
found a little man being plied with wine
and caresses by admiring women.
“An unusually weedy specimen of the French
peasant,” was my cursory judgment, “character-
istically dressed in the black-stuff blouse and loose-
fitting corduroys of his class.”
ho his astonishment the man proved to be
a Tommy, while the yellow-bearded giant
with him was a disguised Jock. Bertrand
roused a French officer from his after-lunch
nap and asked where the railhead was:—
‘‘There is no railhead.”
Bertrand’s eyes were like saucers.
“But the supplies?”
“We require no
supplies.”
A bluebottle-fly had
been destroyed with a
well-placed flick of the
cane.
“If you want the
truth, our divisions have run away.”
“But—.surely—where ?’’
The answer was a gesture. “Partout —or very
nearly'. They' were told to cover Lille. Somebody
must have thought they said Bordeaux.”
Feeling was wanning up by the time
they reached Amiens. The Prussians were
near, and so was panic.
Before one’s eyes, in the middle of the street, an
hysterical woman spat in the face of a soldier.
“Coward/’ she screamed, “coward and runaway!
Tou do well to abandon women and children to
save your own miserable skin! ”
He found two men fighting in the middle
of a crowd. One turned out to be Millar.
The other, a poilu, explained to an artil-
lery officer:—
‘ This Englishman has insulted our country mon
Capitaine.”
We stood staring.
He has said it is we who know best how to run.”
In an attempt to wash the blood from his cheek
Millar only succeeded in smearing it across his face,
tn this plight he stepped forward.
“It was the transport driver over there said the
English were running so fast that nobody could
catch them. That is a lie, I say!”
“lou are both inaccurate,” the officer at my side
very judicially concluded. “For the moment, as it
happens, we are all. running away together.” Then
in the blank silence which followed his speech, with
a touch of blended humor and ironv bv no means
wasted on his audience.' “And I’m 'afraid the race
is not finished yet.” At which the crowd dispersed
laughing.
Evidently the war is at last far enough
off to be treated as the grim joke it seemed
to some of those in the back areas. Mr.
Pryce describes scenes whose truth will be
recognised by all who have watched French
towns being evacuated, but some of his
anecdotes sound as if they had been inspired
by post-war legends. For example, the one
about the French officer who drank to
“The Prince de Galles. One of the bravest
fellows in Europe.” The story of the
Prince’s daring as a warrior wasn’t started
by the Court propaganda department till
’l7, and it has never been accepted by the
French.
RED PAGE.
The Australian Writer in England
A. P. Herbert said recently that he had
been surprised to discover that W. J.
Turner was an Australian. Turner told
me in London some years ago that he never
paraded the fact that he had been born
here. He no doubt had his reasons. As
the author of a huge volume on Beethoven,
and of “Orpheus; or the Future of Music ”
in Kegan Paul’s To-day and To-morrow
series, and as musical critic for the “New
Statesman and Nation,” he is established as
one of the leading musical authorities in
England. His satirical poem “Miss
America” caused a sensation last year. He
has alsb experimented in the drama, and
one of his best-known plays is the ex-
tremely clever and interesting “Man Who
Ate the Popomaek,” played the other day
by Duncan Maedougall’s company in
Sydney.
Now for my own case. When I arrived in
London three years ago with a suitcase
lull of MSS. I was warned by an Australian
journalist who had made good there to keep
concealed the fact that I was an Australian,
I did not heed his warning, and I paid for
my heedlessness. In the introduction to my
book, “Six Plays of Eugene O’Neill,” which
Jonathan Cape published in 1929, 1 ad-
mitted the fact that I was an Australian,
and in an endeavor to explain that the book
was only a testimony to the effect produced
on my mind by reading the plays, and not
an attempt at a criticism of them from a
technical point of view, I said that because
of lack of opportunity I had only seen one
of the plays actually staged. As a matter
ot tact, only two of the plays had been
staged in London at that time. The book
was given full-length reviews in the “Times”
Literary Supplement, the “Morning Post ”
the “Star,” the “Daily News,” “Time and
T ride ; the Bookman’ and other leading
London and provincial papers. But whilst
practically all the writers agreed that the
time was ripe for a be ok on the plays of
merican dramatist, it was suggested
that I, being an Australian, was not com-
petent to write it. Practically all the re-
views were what would' be called “friendly,’
but practically all damned with qualified
praise, and politely inferred an inability
P art to really understand what
Nelll 1 "leant. Two exceptions were Mr.
Edward Garnett (the discoverer and life-
long friend of Joseph Conrad, and the man
w'ho opened the door into the literary world
to D. H Lawrence and W. H. Hudson and
many others) and Eugene O’Neill himself.
My book was published by Cape on Mr.
Garnett’s recommendation. And in private
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING:'—The Highest Ideal.
THE SENIOR STORE”
Anthony Horderns'
“Kemp” Pattern
PARK
SADDLES
PARK Saddles at
“Kemp” Pattern Park
Saddles, allover rip half- 1
panel, extended girth straps.<
Victoria facing, plated tree.
Anthony Horderns’ Price £5/5/-
£5/5/
as
PARK Saddles at
The “Kemp” Pattern
Park Saddle, huilt on 1
best steel-plated tree.<
Allover rip, leather points
to panel, full skirt, Victoria facing.
Anthony Horderns’ Price £6/10/-
£6/1 0|-
SADDLE FITTINGS
of best Quality
Leather Girth, 13/9
Voided Leather Girth, four-bar nickel-plated
stirrup irons and ljin. numbered holes,
stirrup leathers.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 13/9
Ring Head Barcoo Bridles, with nickel-plated
buckles. Sizes Jin lin.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices 9/6 10/6
Nickel-plated Bits. Price 1/6 each
Nickel-plated Steel Bits. Price .. 5/3 each
Horse Collars
Plough Collars.. Sizes 18in. to 21in.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 25/3
Draught Collars. Canvas lined, hair faced.
Sizes 18in. to 21in.
Amthony Horderns’ Price 35/-
(DeptGround Floor, Pitt Street. Free
Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
VISIT
Anthony Horderns’
PAVILION
at the
EASTER SHOW.
SYD N EY/ot BRIDGE
\CELEBRATIDNS/
m
i
w
Durable FARMING IMPLEMENTS
“Little Beauty” Pony Plough £5
“Little Beauty,” Pony Plough, ploughs 7 to 8 inches depth
and width; weight, 861 b. (211/7).
Anthony Horderns’ Price to
■
Columbus” Steel Scrapers
“Columbus” Solid Steel Scraper.
Improved by the Scraper being made
longer and deeper than usual, so
while it carries more earth it runs
much easier, and has more wearing
surface.
from
70|-
Cubic Feet.
No. 3 3
No. 2 5
No. 1 7
No. 0 10
Net Weight. Price.
801b. £3/10/-
971b. £3/11/6
1051b. £3/19/6
1351b. £5/10/-
Samson” Pumping Outfit
A complete self-contained Pumping
Plant, for pumping from a river,
dam or well where the water is
£52
within suction limit.
The Engine is direct-connected to “Samson” Low-
down Power Pumps, and mounted on steel base,
forming a complete pumping unit—light, compact
and strong.
The Engine will run for 12 hours on 1 gallon of
petrol.
The Pumps have bronze valves on bronze seats,
solid bronze piston rods, brass-lined cylinders.
All parts are interchangeable, and the owner of a
“Samson” Pumper can always rely upon replacing
a worn part with a new one that fits perfectly.
Size of Pump—*
Approx. Total
Delivery. Head.
500 gals. 200 ft.
900 gals. 120 ft.
1400 gals. 50ft.
r Size of Pipe •*
Suction. Delivery,
ljin. liin-
liin. l«n.
2in. 2in.
Gross Shipping
Weight. Measurement.
5451 b. 29ft.
5601 b. 29ft.
5901 b. 29ft.
Price.
£53
£54/15/-
£57/5/-
(Dept., Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
s
BAT©
NCu
ZXJ}
a
Sr
10}
A*.
HL
ORDER NOW. STOCKS ARE
LIMITED AND CANNOT BE
RENEWED AT THESE
PRICES.
“Petaluma” Incubators
from £l3/10/-
Anthony Horderns’ have been appointed Sole
Agents in N.S.W. for the Improved “Petaluma”
Incubators. These are manufactured of redwood
5-ply; they possess all the hatching virtues of
the earlier model, but are a more substantially-
built machine. These are now made in Hot
Water, Hot Air and Electric types. Prices
appear on the right.
The “Palace” Incubator
Made with best quality copper circulating
tubes, ensuring a regular heat in every
portion of the hatching chamber. Self-
regulating.
£6
50 egg size. Price, each £6
100 egg size. Price, each £7
HOT AIR MODEL
126 egg size, plain tray. Price, each .. £13/10/-
202 egg size, roller tray. Price, each .. £19/7/6
404 e gg size, roller tray. Price, each .. £32/10/-
HOT WATER MODEL
135 egg size, plain tray. Price, each .. £14/12/6
224 egg size, roller tray. Price, each .. £31
448 egg size, roller tray. Price, each .. £35/10/-
“Green” Bone Cutters
Humphrey Green Bone hand power.
Powerfully hack-geared; heavy balance of
wheel; the anti-friction washer back of
£9
cutter-head becomes soaked in oil, and _
prevents cutting-head from heating, reducing friction
to a minimum. Four heavy corrugated knives, oil
tempered. Bolts furnished with check nuts to
prevent knives from loosening.
Anthony Horderns’ Price
(Dept., Fourth Floor. Free Delivery City and Suburbs only.)
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD., SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


For banishing
INFLUENZA
COUGHS AND COLDS
money cannot buy a
better remedy than
!HEENZO
COSTS 2/-, SAVES £’s
Here s a recipe, given by a leading chemist, that will enable people to make the best
family cough remedy, and at the same time save much money. Everybody knows that a
good cough and influenza remedy consists of two main sections :—
vm
The first section is the undiluted medicinal ingredients;
and the second is, of course, the necessary water and
sweetening. The preparation of the medicinal ingredients
requires trained knowledge, but the water and sweetening
can be added in the home just as easily as in the pharmacy.
And you save a lot of money by doing so. Now, prove these
facts by trying this HEENZO recipe: Into a jug put four
tablespoonfuls of sugar, three of either treacle or honey,
two of vinegar, and a large breakfastcupful of warm water.
Stir till dissolved, and when the syrup is quite cold pour into
a large bottle, and then add a two-shilling bottle of
concentrated HEENZO, obtained from your chemist or
store. By doing this you will have a family supply equal in
quantity and superior in quality to eight ordinary-sized
bottles of the best ready-mixed cough remedy that, if
purchased in the usual way, would cost up to £l. An
outstanding feature about HEENZO is the fact that it is a
safe remedy for babies as well as adults, and over 12,000
people have written letters proclaiming it the best remedy
they have ever used for quickly banishing coughs, colds,
croup, bronchitis and influenza.
Dear Heenzo, —
Sir Harry Lauder’s famous words
were: “I tried Heenzo and found it
good”—them’s my sentiments—for I
appreciate the fact that, by just adding
sweetened water to a two-shilling
bottle of concentrated Heenzo, I am
able to make about £l’s worth of easily
the best remedy I have ever used for
chest and throat ailments.
Yours for Health and Laughter,
JIM GERALD.
Regain
Your
HEALTH
and
STRENGTH
by taking
a few bottles
of
HEAN’S
TONIC
NERVE
NUTS
the famous health-
restoring
TONIC
for eradicating
NERVES
NEURITIS
INSOMNIA
ANAEMIA
and
BRAIN FAG
Bottles containing 12 days’
supply cost 3/- at all Chemists
and Stores.


Hick Simmons
RIFLE
i/-—’ hi '
15:
Kll
An Unrivalled
Range of
SPORTING
RIFLES
No. 2—THE. MAINE SPECIAL
BOLT ACTION RIFLL,
22-caL, take-down, with safety bolt.
For short, long or long-rifle cartridges;
21 in. round barrel; weight, Off ■
about 3 Jib "*
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 8/-
No. 4— BAYARD BOLT
ACTION RIFLE, 22-cal.,
for short, long or long-rifle cartridges.
Take-down, with safety bolt, 20in.
round barrel; weight about *2 ff /
31b &3r.
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
No. 4A-F.N SINGLE SHOT
RIFLE, 22-cal., take-down, with
safety bolt, 21 in. barrel;
weight, about 3 -J-lb
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
No. 8 STEVENS’ CRACK-
SHOT RIFLE, No. 26, New Model,
22-cal., under-lever action; 1 8in. round
barrel, knife-blade front and open
rear sights; weight, about
3 Jib
35/-
33/6
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
No. lO— STEVENS* " FAVOR-
ITE ** RIFLE, 22, 25 or 32 calibres,
R.F. round 24in. barrel, case-hardened
frame, solid breechblock, take-down
action, open front and sporting ffO /
rear sights; weight, 4 Jib
Carriage Paid
No. 11— STEVEN S* BOLT
ACTION REPEATING
RIFLE, 22-cal., magazine holds
14 short, 12 long or 10 long-rifle cart-
ridges—mixed or separate; 22in. round
barrel, slide action, ivory-bead front
and ladder rear sights; weight, _ _ ,
4 Jib ■ ■. 75/-
Carriage Paid
No. 31-BROWNING AUTO-
MATIC RIFLE, MODEL 24,
22 short or long rifle; each rifle takes one
size cartridge only; walnut stock, pistol-
grip, 19Jin. barrel; length, 36in.; bead
front and rear sights; safety bolt; barrel
may be dismounted by unscrewing
threequarter turn; weight, « ,
4 Jib • • “5/“
Carriage Paid
No. 33—SAVAGE SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 3,
22-cal., 23in. round steel barrel, bolt
action; handles short, long or long-rifle
cartridges, gold-bead front and adjust-
able rear sights; pistol-grip
stock; weight, 4 Jib. ....
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/-
4 O/-
lvail yourself of the Services of
f R. LIONEL H. BIBBY.
Revolver and Rifle Shooting
tistructor at Mick Simmons,
nd Australia’s Recognised
Luthority on Guns, Rifles and
Ballistics.
IK Letters to Box 18B, P.O., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MickSimmonsItd
20-722 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
The Premier Sports House of Australia/’
letters (parts of which the publishers
wanted to use, and which would have made
a great difference to the sales) 0 Neill
expressed his very highest appreciation.
In one letter he wrote: “To me it
is actually a surprise that the. book got
as much comment as it did. This sounds a
bit over-cynical perhaps, but I have reason.
My first book of one-act plays—‘Thirst —-
received just one review in the whole U.S.
—a very brief one, written by a critic who
happened to know me slightly. I think
I’ve seen—-through the International clip-
ping people—all the reviews of your book.
It is certainly true that they damn with
faint praise and give you no credit for the
merit of the writing, but you must realise
that you won’t find the readers meant for
you through newspaper comment, good or
bad, but only by a slow process of its gradu-
ally reaching the unfortunately rare type of
minds who can understand what you are
driving at. It is also true that your being
an Australian and my being a Yank engen-
ders that imbecile, sniffish, condescending
attitude in the reviews.” When I wrote and
asked him if there were a book on similar
lines in America, he wrote: “N 0.... I wish
there were So I am surely going to do
my damnedest to persuade my American
publisher, Liveright, to bring out your
book” Liveright did publish the book
last year.
Many years ago when I was quite young
I wrote and published at my own expense
a volume of philosophical essays called
“The Great Longing.” Whilst in England
recently I sent copies of this book to
Edward Garnett and Eugene O’Neill. “I
have looked at ‘The Great Longing’ with
interest,” Edward Garnett wrote. “It was
a remarkable book for a young man of 26
to write, and contains a passion of thought
that has certainly kept much of it alive and
stimulating to-day You may certainly
regard it with real satisfaction, even if you
got little praise for it Personally I am
so beset with my work of reading MSS. for
publishers that I have no leisure for miscel-
laneous reading. But I thank you for the
copy of ‘The Great Longing,’ and I shall
hope to take it down from the shelf again
later on and reconsider various passages,
such as the striking, prophetic page 188,
where you predict what has indeed come to
pass in Russia, the suffering of the indi-
vidualists and the age of the Slave-Bolshe-
viks.” And Eugene O’Neill wrote: “I have
read your ‘Great Longing’ and it has
deeply impressed me with its extraordinary
sincerity and deep feeling. It is a remark-
able piece of work, and there are passages
in it which certainly hit bedrock.”
Of my O’Neill book W. J. Turner wrote:
“I am now reading your book. I have read
enough to see what fools the reviewers
were.” I feel that had I left Australia years
ago and concealed the fact that I was an
Australian, as W. J. Turner did, I may have
won a place in the English literary world,
and as an English writer may have, after
over 20 years’ work, been better known in
my own country. As it is I very much
doubt if either of the books mentioned in
this article could be procured at any book-
shop in Australia to-day.
ALAN D. MICKLE.
A Lady at Sea
There is only one woman who can write
an acceptable novel of sea life—Elinor Mor-
daunt. She knows something about it. The
others get quaintly tangled among the
ropes and sails. C. Fox Smith, of course,
knows as much as Elinor Mordaunt, and
perhaps more, but we have yet to see a
novel from her pen.
Shallow Seas, by the author who uses
the pen-name “Richard Dehan,” is done in
her customary tense, exclamatory manner.
The steam yacht Seamaid is knocking about
somewhere in Asian seas. The captain,
telling of a recent gale, says to his new
mate: “I told ’em [the passengers] we were
short of coal, and I thought the sails ’ud
help her—and so we clapped her mainsheet
on, and her foresheet and the jibs.” Bad
weather came on. So, “naturally I clewed
up her jibs, fetched her topsails down and
took close reefs in Seamaid’s fore and
mainsheets—wishing I’d had the common-
sense to leave ’em in her locker.” Also,
“her foretop goes by the board.”
Perhaps it is only natural that a lady
novelist should imagine a sheet to be a
sail, instead of a rope. The modem
feminine mind is prone to fly to bedsheets.
But there are some men writers not much
better. Some years ago there was a popu-
lar American novelist who wrote a nautical
book in an extremely breezy and haul-
away style. He had a verse of a sailor’s
chanty, copied from someone’s collection,
at the head of each chapter. But his hero,
who was a bit of a lubber when he first
went to sea in that schooner, accidentally
put his foot through “the new mainsheet,”
and tore it badly. He got mastheaded for
it, of course. His astonishing feat deserved
an exemplary punishment. -
To revert to Shallow Seas. The Seamaid
hits something one night. The captain and
mate discuss it. They wonder what it is.
Then, apparently without any orders, one
of the crew gets out the leadline to take a
cast on his own account. “The leadsman,”
the story goes on, “clearly in sight from
the bridge, and a steady experienced sea-
man, went on calling the soundings steadily,
and there were no shoalings here. ‘By the
deep—two hundred.’ ” (Those words are
in italics, though they might' well be in
big caps.) „
The captain drew breath. “I thought so,
he said to his mate. “We’re east of the
hundred-fathom line.” Presently the mate,
in his well-cut white duck suit, “sent a brief
word through the speaking-tube to relieve
the weary leadsman.” That steady, experi-
enced seaman certainly deserved relief
after hauling up a 281 b. lead (apparently he
started with the handline and changed over
to the deep-sea lead) from a depth of
1200 feet. It would have been only
bare justice to the weary tar if the cap-
tain had sent the chief steward forward with
a case of the choicest wines, and a courteous
invitation to “splice the dipsy lead, my
man.”
J.C.
A Satchel of Books
J. M. Dent and Sons have published New
Library editions of the novels of Scott and
Dickens. Each volume is in cloth, with a
frontispiece, and the price is only 2s. 6d.
“Pickwick,” in this edition, consists of over
SOO pages, and the type is as readable as
the subject matter.
The Murder on the Burrows, by E. C. K.
Lorac (Sampson Low; 7s. 6d.), has West-
ward Ho! as a setting. Two visitors find
the body of a young man in a car. Who
killed him and why? Suffice to say that
he. deserved all he got, and that his slayer,
though identified, was never arrested. A
thoroughly mystifying yarn, with some un-
usually bright dialogue.
While, Rajah, by Owen Rutter (Hut-
chinson; Robertson and Mullens; 7s. 6d.).
Elements of the fascinating story of Rajah
Brooke, of Sarawak, plus a rather fantas-
tic love interest. Present reviewer knows
of no work of the imagination that gives
more of the real glamor of “the East” than
Brooke’s own diary, written when he was
carving out a patrimony for the Brooke
family single-handed against Borneo.
Manuscripts (3s. 9d.), published by the
Book Nook, Geelong, and edited by Harry
Tatlock Miller, is one of the few provincial
art enterprises in Australia and as such
deserving of encouragement. It is illus-
trated with original lino.-cuts by Christian
Waller, Arthur Baldwinson, Ron Meadows
and Marjorie Wood, of which the nude figure
in the rain by Miss Wood shows most vigor
and vivacity. The make-up of the publica-
tion is excellent —much better than the
articles and poems it holds.
Murder at Arondale Farm, by John Hawks
(Skeffington; 7s. 6d.). Sir Bruce Arondale,
Bart., of Kent, was hard up, so much so
that he was about to lose his property.
Harry Talbot, a blatant American, who
drove a gaudy car and had small eyes set
near together on either side of a large nose—
in short, a born murderee —came to Arondale
Farm and was shot. —once, twice, thrice.
His lips move feebly as they try to form a name.
....He thinks that he has shouted a name, shouted
it so loudly that it will ring for miles on the
still night air ; but no sound has come from Harry
Talbot’s lips.
Whose was the name? Suffice it to say that
it belonged to the last person the average
reader is likely to suspect, and that full
justice was done. A thriller with more than
the usual supply of sentiment.
The Body on the Beam, by Anthony Gil-
bert, and Mystery at Greycomhe Farm, by
John Rhode (each from Collins, at 7s. 6d.)
are first-rate shockers, which have been
written to radically different formulae. In
Mr. Gilbert’s book the body is discovered on
page 1 and in the following 250 pages the
reader (who knows the murderer almost
from the beginning) is allowed to.see inside
the heads and follow the movements of
Inspector Field, the brilliant Egerton and
others as they proceed patiently from clue
to clue, and arrive eventually at the whole
facts of the case. If the same procedure
had been followed in the Greycombe Farm
murder justice might never have been done.
But Dr. Priestley, who comes to the assist-
ance of the baffled authorities, isn’t con-
cerned with clues. Once he has satisfied
himself that the crime was committed by
certain means, in a certain place, he knows
the murderer. Anybody who reads one of
these books should read the other. Apart
from their wealth of homicidal lore they
contain in the one case hundreds of faithful
little pictures of London —the London of
mean streets and harried prostitutes—and
in the other many shrewd studies of those
who dwell in the English country.
And a Little Verse
THE TENANTS.
Close following Love into my home and
heart
Crept Love’s pale brothers Pain and great-
eyed Fear;
Now they are welcome grown, welcome
and dear*
Since, with their passing, Love and I must
part.
N.S.W.
SPINDRIFT.
WHY?
On Saturn’s luminous ring,
Dangling her feet in space,
The spirit of everything
Pressed her hands to her face.
The angels of day and night
Each side of her fairy form
Kissed her with radiant light,
Hid her in darkness warm.
The spirit of every way
Asked tremblingly of their ears:
Why is there night and day?
Why are there smiles and tears?
Rippling along through space.
Her question unanswered flies—
Nothing has day in her face,
No light has night in her eyes.
Never the stardrops fall,
Never-a rose appears,
But somebody hears that call;
“Why are there smiles and tears 5 ?”
Crumpled beneath the strain,
The centuries’ butterfly
Asks it over again:
And the universe answers “Why?”
N.S.W. ’
R. N. CARRINGTON.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken
of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability
is undertaken re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
J.J.G.: We gave it a dozen columns less
than a year ago. Space won’t let us go over the
matter again so soon G.P.: Too slight a thing.
. ...M.8.P.: As usual, taste and sensibility; also, as
usual, too many outworn phrases... .T. 5.8.: Another
case of a harp that once—and only once... .M.M.:
Not this time... .Kim: Has strength; but what is it
you’re putting on the rack ?... . M.J.W.: Vague no-
things... .R.N.H.: You work with worm-eaten
material... .R.P. (Tas.) : Commonsense and a glimpse
of beauty in it, but no poetry... .L.A.S.: Very near.
The opening and closing lines are arresting....
B. J.: Meritorious, but hardly in our line.... B.McI. ••
Plenty of swing, but little symmetry. .. .L.A.S.:
Doesn't struggle out of mediocrity... .E.8.T.: Over-
long and over-turgid and . over-prosy for a Bridge
poem... .R.J.: Boyish. .. .A.W.G.W.: Childish....
McNoah: There’s merit in “The Chantyman,” but
restricted space is fatal to a lot of merit these
times... .M.J.C.: “The Patriot” fell at the first
hurdle. .. .Mr. G.: Using “The Roads”... .J.R.R.:
Poetic, but the limps and halts are over-frequent.
. ...D.McC.: Regret to advise that “the graceful
steam yacht owned by Lord Bolinghurst which was
making a tour of the world” ran aground on' our
waste-paper basket... .W.M.F.: “Kangaroo Lizzie”
has no punch; “The Old Punt Road” leads nowhere.
.... Bellerive: They’d better know the circumstances
under which this lyric was written. Here, then: —
My writing den, being a small attic room at the
top of a narrow, creaky stairs, while the household
were hushed in slumber, and the house cat purred
drowsily upon the hob of the kitchen fireplace, by
the glare of a flickering candle I dipped the pen
and wrote:
Weird roosters crow
And tomcats fight,
Shrill wails the wind
In the deepening night;
Reckless gamesters play,
Lose heavy or win,
And wine glasses clink
In dens of sin;
Foul deeds ensue
And intriguers delight
To plot in the silence .
Of the deepening night.
G.T.: Stilted dialogue; and you see the climax
coming from too far off... .N.S.G.; Very bright in
spots; but it is beaten out too thin for our use....
G. ; But don’t take those papers seriously. They
only say those things in a desperate struggle for
advertising. .. .Rajah: Too highly colored; not a
good specimen of a poor class.... Beta: Went dow.r
in the rush. But it ran pretty well V.W.:
Crude; and you don’t make us believe it’s true.
....Sylvia J.: Good in its Gallic cynical way; but
the writing is too turgid... .E.M.E.: Doesn’t holl
the interest that long C.E.D. : Hopelessly stagey
and artificial.... L.M.8.; Repetitive and du11....
A.L.H.; Only space for meat; all the trimmings
have to g 0... .A.MI.K.: Neat trifles.... Boss B.:
Can’t find a place for it. But there should be a
market somewhere... .R.W.A,; Bit too stereotyped.
. ...P.G.W.: Return “Motives” and “Units” with
regret... .G.F.E.: Merit here; but “the unforgiving
years” and “relentless time” have long since out-
worn their welcome... .Blackboy: It has swing, but
we can’t find space for jingles of that length
Dix: Pretty iambic pentameters in beautiful hand-
writing, but the subject is too spacious... .D.W.8.:
Not surprised that the farmer hanged himself....
C. : Pretty bad, but not quite so bad as you
seem to think we might think... .8.C.: Did you
ever meet a swagman who talked of “viands” ?....
L.A.S.: You don’t make a lyric of it. ...P.S.:
Hasn’t a hope.... J.F.M.: A bit too fragile...!
A.T.: Showed sentimental haberdasher gently to the
door C.W.: Geography and history boggled....
S.J.M.: Has little story interest... .M.V.: A
literary prawn... .K.E.F.: Promised well but petered
out R.A.C.: Tale of s.-p. trickery has something
in it, but crude in its present form... .E.W.: Burden
of proving your point too muoh for y0u....
H. : Leaves a lot unexplained... .G.R.P.:
Labored... .J.J.W.: Reads like too many other back-
country feud yams... .A.K.L: Plot has possibilities;
treatment p00r.... P.W.; Prune heavily and submit
again. .. .S.Q.; Twaddle... .R.L.T.: Ending is ncr
logical 8.N.; “Take it or dump it.” Dumped.
. ...R.H.D.: Alleged imitations of Omar too awful
for words... .C.C.: Offer your “Ode to the
Harbor Bridge” elsewhere by all means....
V.S.J.: “Happy Hugh” got bucked off early in the
piece... .Nill M.: Musical, but nothing else
Alcazar: Like the angels, has form without sub-
stance D.J.M.: Already debated at great length,
and nothing came of it.... Dr. R.: Your drunk has
points, but doesn’t stagger to any definite objective.
Stanley A. C.: Not quite sure what it means,
but it sounds the true blue. .. .A.E.A.: A capital
idea in it; but it ought to go more' smoothly.
Start of the second verse, for example... .V.G.W.:
Worth encouragement... .Walter V.: A tangle. And
not worth the labor of pushing a way through....
Christine C.: Nice glossy surface on antique themes.
... .F.G.N.E.: It creaks too much. .. .Waif D.:
Zephyrus, the goat-foot god, dryads, Phosbus and his
car, Endymion, Psyche, fauns, jacinth-scented air—
you have made a shop window of your 24 lines....
F.H.: “Good-bye” is a little “mannered,” but you
are going to do good work.... Neil S.: No, but
has a feeling for romance D.H.R.: Good mechani-
cal verse, but presents no new idea or vista. Should
judge he was book-bound... .J.R.H.:
But not with fear regard the Reaper grim ;
He comes from Heaven but to shape our ends.
Sounds like a chiropodist... .W.R.C.: Not even the
memory of his sweet old mother in her bonnet of
lace can bring your dying swagman reprieve. You’re
hopeless in a rut like that. .. .D.W.: “Immanence”
goes well half the way; then it begins posturing.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.W.H.P.: So that’s your idea of the inside of
a police court!... .F.H.: Pleased to see you making
progress F.E.C.: Where do we laugh?... .H.R :
Stiff M.R.C.: A aown-at-heels pair... .M.P.: Too
much like fashion-plates as yet C.P.: Took the
count A.D. : Massed, but not by much A.E.H.:
Would prefer to see seme of his original work
J.S.: Atrocious.. ..R.K.G.: Heavy.... R.C.: Has all
the faults of a first effort LD.: An old wheezn
... .S.P.C.: Subject beat you-.. .F.M.; Yes, we
thought it a good gag when we published it years
ag0.... C.L.: Decorative, but the joke is dead.
A.8.T.: Stodgy... .F. J.S.: You haven’t learnt what
not to put in W. 8.: None of them will d 0....
AIK.: Draw on a larger scale... .C.E.H.: Frightful
pun, frightfully illustrated W.M.; That fly in
the beer should be completely drowned by n0w....
T.H.: Faint pencillings on crumpled paper... .S.S. :
Hopeless. .. .E.G.: It’s not your patriotism we doubt.
. ...C.J.N.: Shows a certain merit, but it is off
our beat. ... A.V.: Mouldy jest F.M.L.: Jo looks
more like an English gamekeeper than a bullocky.


I
4 111
w
t «•..'
i
r-.-.
1
ft JP
mm
B—
Great Westers
■ H
SMi
M
mm
X.
■
■
V
our
0.


The Bulletin
VoL 53. —No. 2717.
March 9, 1932.
THE ARCHIBALD MEMORIAL.
"The J. F. Archibald Memorial statuary in Hyde has been completed, and will be handed over to the City of Sydney on Monday.
SHADE OF J.F.A.: “Beautiful—very, beautiful! But if I had known what the politicians would have brought my country te, I would have given these poor devils
bread instead of a stone.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydneyj
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : llk-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 259 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 3S Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, lh Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.t.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, Few Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for koz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
BLED WHITE!
Never a day passes now without a letter
telling The Bulletin a pitiful tale of
oppression by the taxgatherer; for while
every other country has been seeking ways
of cutting down taxation as part of the
plan for reducing costs, Australia has con-
tinued to look for ways of increasing it.
Down to 1915 the Commonwealth did
not impose an income tax; one was intro-
duced then, very apologetically, as a tem-
porary w T ar measure. In that first year the
taxpayer, who -remembered that already the
State was cutting into his earnings, thought
he was badly done by when £3,900,000 was
collected. It was such sweet money—all
clear gain—that in later years the screw
was given extra turns. For the year to the
end of June, 1930, the total collection was
£11,120,000. And still it was not enough.
To the basic rate on incomes from personal
exertion—a rate which runs up to ss. in the
£ —fi»t an “additional” tax of 8 p.c. had
been fastened; then a “super” tax running
up to 20 p.c. on the total of the “basic tax”
and the “additional” tax; finally there was
a “further” tax running up to 15 p.c. on the
total of the “basic” tax and the “additional”
tax and the “super” tax. Income from pro-
perty has been punished even harder. There
is the “basic” tax, graduated more sharply
and running up to ss. in the £; also the
“additional” tax, the “super” tax and the
“further” tax as in the case of income from
personal exertion; and on all this has been
heaped a “special” tax, originally of p.c.,
now increased to 10 p.c., with a “sales” tax
of 6 p.c. on the people’s purchases, and a
primage tax of as much as 10 p.c. on
imported goods, including the raw materials
of Australian industries.
And while the Federal authority has been
piling higher and still higher these burdens,
the State authority has not been idle; in
N. S. Wales, for instance, the taxes on in-
comes whether derived from personal exer-
tion or from property run up to ss. in the
£ less 5 p.c.; in S. Australia the tax runs
up to 4s. 7d. on income from personal exer-
tion and ss. 2d. on income from property,
along with a “special” tax of £2 10s. pay-
able by every person with a taxable in-
come of at least £l.
The effect of some of these “additional”
and “special” and “extra” and “further”
taxes is to bring many a taxpayer of moderate
means to the very verge of starvation,
especially when the Federal land tax can
come into the matter. Here is the case of
a man with a small interest in a property
bringing in £925 net on an unimproved
value of £12,000. His share was £137; but
his share of the Federal land tax was £3O
and of his State land tax £6, leaving him
£lOl net. On this, since he had other earn-
ings, he has to pay the procession of in-
come taxes enumerated above. Of the £137
originally received, only a shade over £6O
was left when the taxgatherers were done
with it.
Further, though the statutory rate of tax
may be high, it can be raised almost in-
definitely by tricks and subterfuges. Here
is another taxpayer representing a company
or firm which returned its income at £5500.
It was assessed upon £Bsoo—that is to say,
on 55 p.c. more than its actual profit. The
explanation is as simple as it is discredit-
able to the taxing authorities, and that
in most cases means Parliament rather than
the departmental executives. Although
taxes are money paid out just as much as
wages and salaries are, almost every Aus-
tralian taxing authority refuses to recog-
nise tax payments as outgoings, but charges
on them as if they were income. That
vicious practice has been followed also by
N. S. Wales in the matter of the Unem-
ployment-Relief Tax of Is. in the £. This
has the effect not only of swelling the
amount on which tax has to be paid—•
swelling it to 55 p.c. in excess of the legi-
timate figure in the quoted case —but also
of increasing the rate of graduated tax.
Instead, therefore, of a taxpayer paying up
to ss. in the £ to the Commonwealth, plus
ss. 2d. in the £ to the State Government in
S. Australia (and in other States the figures
are very little less), plus the “additional,”
“special,” “extra” and “further” taxes, his
actual payment may be at a rate over
50 p.c. greater—that is, something over
15s. in the £, plus the additional, extra,
special and further taxes. And in N. S.
Wales there is the super-tax of Is. in the
£ allegedly for unemployment relief. It is
quite clear that on part of their income
there are citizens of Australia who are now
paying from 15s. to 20s. in the £ of it in
income, land and so-called unemployment
taxes alone.
If a crushing rate of tax were imposed
only on the wealthy, one might find some
justification for it from the Communist
point of view. But here are two cases
which show how even the poor are pinched.
First there is a man who, though on the
basic wage now, has been much out of work
and has had a great deal of family mis-
fortune. He is absolutely on the breadline
—so much so that his mates have been
giving him a hand. His payment in un-
employment-relief tax is now at the rate
of £lO 12s. a year—as much as a well-to-do
person paid in income tax of every sort
a few years ago. The second case is that
of a man who diligently provided for his
own and his wife’s, old age, and in response
to the call of patriotism took the money
out of the savings bank and elsewhere and
put it into Government bonds. He suffered
a tax lately of p.c., and he believed
that bought him immunity from further
assaults. He has now been called upon
to pay the 10 p.c. special property-income
tax. This, since he is wholly dependent on
this money, will reduce his income to less
than the basic wage.
Meantime the community is being further
oppressed with indirect tax charges that are
equally outrageous. Take, for example, the
case of the Sydney Harbor Bridge. Origin-
ally estimated to cost 5J millions, this will
run into over 10 millions—how much over
10 millions nobody knows at present. The
least one will be charged to cross the bridge
unless one walks is 4d. The ferry fare from
Circular Quay to Milson’s Point used to
be Id., was raised to 2d. and of recent years,
when a fund to wipe out the cost of the
ferries was being built up, has been 3d.
That extra Id. has, of course, been an in-
direct bridge tax: it ha.s paid for things
which the bridge was rendering valueless
or thereabouts. For eight years past city
and suburbs have also been paying a direct
bridge tax —for the use of the bridge, as
they thought in their innocence, not know-
ing, of course, that when the thing was
provided they would have to pay more
for using it than they had ever paid the
ferries.
Meantime we talk about the necessity
for reducing our costs. And nobody talks
louder about it than the politician—the
person who has done more and is still doing
more to pile up costs, by way of these
appalling taxes, direct and otherwise, than
all the rest of the community put to-
gether.
TAKING THE BELT IN A HOLE.
In Westralia last week the tribunal en-
trusted with that sort of job reduced the
basic wage within the Perth metropolitan
area. Mr. Summerville, the employees’
representative, dissented; the recommenda-
tion, he said, was based on the childish idea
that a community could become prosperous
by taking in its belt another hole. This
story about a belt and the benefit or other-
wise to be derived from pulling it in
another hole had been mentioned on thou-
sands of previous occasions; and it is about
time to pick it up and examine it.
Presumably the suggestion is that some
childish people believe that a community
can be made more prosperous by doing
without things which it has hitherto had.
Whether that is childish or not depends,
however, on circumstances. Ordinarily a
community becomes more prosperous the
more needs it develops and satisfies by its
labors. An island in the Pacific occupied by
Kanakas content with cocoanuts and fish
and sweet potatoes would be as little pros-
perous, from the Australian point of view,
as an island well could be; and it would be
still less prosperous if it decided to cut out
the fish. More than half of the work of
the trader in those parts has been to create
new needs, in the hope that with new needs
would come new efforts. The position is
not a bit different in so-called civilised
lands. The art of the advertiser is not so
much to notify that Smith and Co. have
certain goods for sale as to persuade people
that they need those goods, although they
may never have felt the want of them in all
their lives.
It is upon this that most of the world’s
progress has been built. Every little while
certain men, looking at the enormous strides
which production has made, declare that
the world can have all its wants satisfied
by . working three or four hours a day five
days a week. That might be true if the
world’s wants stood still. But they never
do stand still; and it would be ruinous to
progress if they did. Almost every genera-
tion has thought itself so clever that it
had just about exhausted the possibilities
of new inventions and discoveries; and
then it usually talks about over-produc-
tion. There was a great deal of that
talk 40 years ago, in the midst of a world
slump in prices. Before two decades had
passed the world was busier than ever; for
new discoveries had been made which gave
us a vast extension of telephones and tele-
graphs, which supplied us with millions of
motor-cars and -trucks, which gave us
moving pictures and the wireless and the
aeroplane and X-rays. Now the world is
pretty well saturated with most of these
things, and there is more talk of over-
production and the need to cut down work-
ing hours and working days. What history
shows is that the real need is to discover
and supply other human wants.
To that extent, then, the Perth gentle-
man is right: progress and prosperity do
not come from taking in the belt another
hole, from doing without things that we
previously had; rather do we lay the foun-
dations of progress and prosperity by letting
out the belt another hole, by wanting things
that we never had before. But—and this
is where the gentleman from Perth misses
the track---we don’t get them by loosening
the belt; we only get them by working for
them.
For very many years past we in Aus-
tralia thought there was an easier way than
that. We had all the wants of a highly-
developed country and a rich one, and not
having the money to satisfy them we bor-
rowed it. Now, that might have been all
very well if we had borrowed wisely and
spent prudently; but in fact we did neither.
We put both borrowing and spending into
the hands of politicians, who were more
concerned about getting votes than any-
thing else. They spent millions on things
which gave no money return whatever, and
more millions upon things which cost a
great deal to maintain. Vast sums were
spent on perishing assets for which no
replacement fund was provided; and in the
end, when the borrowed millions were cost-
ing many more millions a year in interest,
they borrowed to pay the interest. One
political party was neither better nor worse
than another; they all did every one of
these disgraceful things. And, whether
Labor or otherwise, they all did it in the
name of that ownership and control of
public utilities which the Labor party had
done most to popularise.
That is the position in which we find
ourselves to-day. And naturally we have
to make readjustments. During the period
of mad borrowing and madder spending,
we enjoyed a prosperity which was utterly
fictitious. Hundreds of millions were poured
into the country in the shape of goods which
we sold and upon the proceeds of which we
lived riotously. Nothing mattered—prices,
wages, hours of labor, anything. We were
the young man who had a vast estate to
mortgage, and who spent the money with-
out any regard for the morrow. And the
morrow has come—come and found us not
only entirely unprepared, but with the goods
upon whose sale we have to depend to pay
our debts at lower prices than they have
been for years; in some cases lower than
they have ever been.
In these circumstances three voices are
heard loudest in the land. One says that
we have been great fools, that we let our
belt out far too many holes, and that now
we must take them in and for a while do
without things which we should never have
had. Another says, with the gentleman
from Perth, that a country never became
prosperous by taking its belt in a few holes,
and lets it go at that—does not attempt
to explain how the conditions under which
we lived during the period of bogus pros-
perity are to be maintained and our debts
kept paid. The third, throwing all ideas
of honesty and suchlike overboard, and
utterly regardless of what would happen to
us if we should ever want to borrow again,
goes frankly and unashamedly for repudi-
ation. Nominally it is between these three
we have to choose, but actually the choice
is between the first and the third. The
second policy—which is apparently that of
the Perth gentleman—is no policy at all,
but merely a weak and cowardly counsel
to let things drift.
THE ARCHIBALD MEMORIAL.
J. F. Archibald was always lucky. Life
gave him almost everything he asked of it
except a son. He wanted money—not to
hoard, but to spend on the entertainment
of his friends and on the beautiful objects
and delicate food and wine which he
appreciated—and he made it fairly early.in
life. He wanted fame in his own time,
and earlier as W. H. Traill’s associate, and
later as editor of The Bulletin, he kept
striking such godsends as Phil May, “Hop,”
Lawson and Edmond. For him James
Edmond turned The Bulletin from a witty
gossip-sheet into a power in national poli-
tics; and no one said so oftener than Archi-
bald, who had not a glimmer of jealousy in
him. But, however unwillingly, Archibald
got most of the credit; nine Australians
talked reverently of Archibald for every
one who knew of his brilliant leader-writer
and associate’s existence. It was implicit
in his dramatic personality. He was one
of those picturesque and exciting characters
who draw the limelight even where they
try to avoid it.
And now, 13 years after his death, he has
done it again. The Hyde Park Memorial,
which is to be unveiled next week, is likely
to confer a kind of immortality on him;
cause him to be remembered long after
the celebrities of the war which it exalts
are forgotten. The sculptor, Picard, is a
modern, without any of the tricks of
modernism, which may seem as grotesque
to another generation as the nouveau art
of the beginning of the century does to us.
There is no living artist who would have
suited Archibald’s purpose half so well, yet
it was a mere chance that he got the com-
mission. Archibald stipulated that the work
should be done by “an eminent French
sculptor” to perpetuate the association of
the French and Australians in Flanders,
because he loved France like a Frenchman.
He looked French. He had a Gallic wit
and elan, and a passion for life, art, pleasure
and amusing conversation which character-
ises thousands of cultivated Parisians. But
le lecords show, as Conor O’Brien notes
! n *?er Macl-eod of The Bulletin,” that
he hadn t a drop of French blood in his
veins. He was an Irish-Australian. If his
patriotism had taken the usual course, some-
thing equal to Sydney’s worst in the public-
monument line might have resulted.
His luck held again in the site. The
position, opposite the western transept of
St. Marys, is the best for the purpose in
oydney, which is to say in Australia; and
with every fresh development—the erection
of the new Law Courts near the old Mint
site, the completion of the Cathedral—it
must become more impressive. The
Memorial stands in the city’s Trafalgar-
S L Uai L ' - the P ° int at Which the traffic O f
foo business and professional worlds, of
Clubland and of the chief residential
quarters converges.
Picard knew little or nothing of Archi-
bald’s lifework; yet in the Theseus Group,
by the merest chance, he has commemor-
ated it. The defeat of the Minotaur rep-
resents the fight for the public good against
long odds. Though he knew nothing about
politics in the ordinary sense, this was a
fight which Archibald delighted to wage,
one for which he went to gaol in The
Bulletin’s early days, and with which
his name will always be associated in Aus-
tralian journalism. Sydney has scored
immensely by his posthumous good fortune :
it has acquired a monument as enduring as
some of the classical models which helped
to inspire it.
J.D.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sugar.
Thk position of the sugar industry has
again been raised by the Federal Auditor-
General in his annual report. Australia,
he says, is paying £36 per ton to sweeten
its tea while some people outside can get
the goods for £6. Mr. Cerutty implies
that the difference is too great; and a
great many other people think so, too, even
though they believe that Mr. Oerutty’s
figure of £6 is very much below the average
retail price abroad.
In the early days of the industry Kanaka
labor was employed in the canefields; and
that cut across the nation’s deliberate
White-Australia policy. Two things had,
however, been established: one that
Queensland was very well adapted by
climate and soil for sugar-growing, and
the N. S. Wales North Coast also, though
to a less extent; the other that, though it
was arduous, the field work could be done
by white men. A compromise was there-
fore accepted: seeing that the white settle-
ment of the North was of great national
importance, something amounting to an
embargo on foreign sugar—nearly all of it
black-grown sugar—was conceded in return
for a State undertaking to prohibit colored
labor. That arrangement met the situation
so long as production did not exceed local
consumption; as soon as there was a surplus,
which had to find a market at world prices,
something further had to be done. In 1915
the Commonwealth Government took con-
trol of the output, paying a fixed price for
raw sugar, and selling refined at varying
prices to manufacturers, wholesalers and
retailers. Eight years later the financing
and distribution of the output was handed
over to the Queensland Government. By
agreement, the State Government under-
took to buy all raw cane sugar produced in
Queensland and N. S. Wales, and sell it at
not more than certain fixed prices in con-
sideration of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment continuing the embargo. The Queens-
land Government was to bear all losses
incurred in the export of the surplus, and
make sugar available to manufacturers of
export goods at world’s parity. From
time to time that agreement has been
renewed. When it came up in 1931 the
price for local consumption, which had
been fixed at £27 in 1923, and at £26 for
some years afterwards, was reduced to £22
because of the great fall in the world price.
In 1926 the surplus exported was 18 p.c.
of the crop, and the price got for it was
£l4 18s. lOd. That was a year of poor
harvests. In 1930, an average year, the sur-
plus was 37 p.c., and the price no more
than £9 175.; and since then there has been
a further fall in world price. It is this
surplus which really makes the problem.
Australia pays a high price for the sugar it
consumes to make up the difference be-
tween the production cost of the exported
sugar and the sale price; and obviously the
larger the percentage of crop exported
and the greater the difference between pro-
duction cost and sale price, the larger the
problem grows. Various plans have been
proposed to meet this new situation. The
one adopted by the Cane Sugar Prices
Board is to limit both cane areas and mill
production.
But while this is fairly satisfactory to
the sugar-producer it does not give the
consumer all the protection he can reason-
ably ask. The industry should have its
embargo; but in return it should show three
things: (1) That it is carried on in the
places best suited to it (in other words,


EASTER
BULLETIN
Besides many Short Stories and
other holiday reading the Easter
“Bulletin” will contain an excep-
tionally fine lot of Humorous
Drawings. It will also include
special articles on the Bridge, but
they won’t be the sort of bridge
articles you ara tired of reading.
A HOLIDAY NUMBER
MARCH 23.
high prices must not be maintained for the
purpose of permitting the industry to be
carried on in districts not best suited to it);
(2) that the industry is efficiently con-
ducted, and the fullest possible use made
of by-products; and (3) that neither the
labor nor the c'apital employed gets re-
wards out of proportion to those available
to the rest of Australia, the nature of the
industry being taken into account. On not
one of these points is the case of the sugar-
growers entirely conclusive. On the first
point it is least conclusive of all. On the
others, recent years have shown a substan-
tial improvement.
Even if the Commonwealth had no agree-
ment on the subject there ought to be no
question at the present time of abolishing
what no doubt amounts to a bonus to the
industry; we cannot face either the extra
imports which abolition would mean, or
the loss of employment. The maintenance
of conditions which encourage the pro-
duction of a surplus for export is more
debatable. But export at any price if it
means employment is better than unem-
ployment and no production at all, just as
it is better that a man should make half
a living rather than live wholly on the dole.
If the men whom the industry employs in
excess of those required to meet Australia’s
consumption could be at once transferred
to other productions, something might be
said for cutting down the area under cane;
but until that other productive work which
requires no bonus or other public support is
available, we shall do best by leaving things
as they are, striving meantime, of course,
to effect such changes in the industry that
it can satisfy Australia on these three
points.
What Are W<f Waiting For ?
Our crisis began definitely two and a half
years ago. For the first year we were
buoyed up by the hope that very shortly
conditions would improve in other parts of
the world, and we would share in the pros-
perity. Instead, conditions elsewhere grew
worse, and there were never so many unem-
ployed in Europe and America as there are
to-day. Nor is there any reason to expect
an early recovery. The plan of leaning
against the rest of the world for support
may therefore be ruled out as a dead
failure. If things are to improve with us
we must act for ourselves.
Well, what can we do about it? If
there are 12 men in a boat, and only 10
are pulling, it is plain enough that they
will have harder work to make any progress
than if the whole 12 were at the oars; also
if one or two more drop out, those who are
left will have harder work still; further,
that every extra man who drops out will
make it more certain that another will be
exhausted before long. On the other hand,
if six men are pulling and another takes an
oar, the lesser weight on each will make
it’ more possible for still another and
another to take a hand. That is our posi-
tion. There are so many who are not pull-
ing their weight that the burden on the
rest is breaking down more and more
industries and businesses and jobs; and
so we go from bad to worse.
Instead, however, of giving a man an oar
and requiring him to do his best, we have
been tinkering about with all sorts of fancy
schemes. In N. S. Wales Mr. Lang has
been particularly prolific of these. After 18
months of this it is surely about time con-
ditions began to improve; but they haven’t.
It looks as though we are waiting for
some miracle to happen; and we can be
sure that it won’t. Our only hope of making
progress is to reduce the number of men
who are not pulling their weight; and the
only possible way of doing that is to put
them somewhere where they can do it. We
might do it in factories; but that is a
slow process. The only other way is
to put them on the land, where, if they
cannot make a living, they might at least
make half a living; and if a man has a
poor oar with which he can pull only half
his weight, it is better than pulling nothing
at all and being a complete burden on the
rest of the crew. Every ounce taken off
the backs of those who have good oars will
make the job easier and progress surer; and
there is no other way of doing it.
*
The Trade Figures.
Thanks very largely to the embargoes and
high tariff brought in by the late Govern-
ment, our trade figures continue to be
among the most cheerful items nowadays
printed. For the first seven months of the
current financial year—that is, to the end
of January—our exports exceeded our
imports by £21,456,000, all values being
brought to sterling. Included in the exports
is £5,021,072 of gold and bullion; and as
probably rather less than half of that was
current production, the actual excess of
exports may be reduced to about 19 mil-
lions. Approximately we required 172-
millions to meet our foreign interest and
debt charges; so that, so far as current pro-
duction is concerned, we were something
like li millions to the good for the seven
months. Generally speaking, our exports
are about evenly divided between the two
halves of the year (last year the total for
the first half was £45,870,000, and of the
second half £46,l3o,ooo—merchandise figures
only), so there is every reason to expect
that, quite apart from the help the export
of hoarded gold has given us, we shall
finish the year with about three millions to
the good in London. It isn’t much, and it
allows no margin for any monkeying with
the tariff; but it is full of hope and
encouragement.
The Niceness of Mr. Moore.
The political party which Mr. Moore leads
in Queensland seems likely to have reason
to regret the fact that he is such a very
nice fellow. And every property-owner as
well. Mr. Moore was returned in 1929,
with a substantial majority, for the express
purpose of re-establishing the Leg. Council,
abolished by his Labor predecessors as a
hindrance to their methods of government.
A Chamber of Review is essentially, and
always, a hindrance to such methods; in
cold fact, such is its constitutional purpose.
Mr. Lang, the outstanding Australian expert
on the subject, has frequently expressed his
dissatisfaction with hisi own Leg. Council
not his own, in the sense which he desires,
but his own in his private capacity as a
citizen and substantial property-owner in
N. S. Wales.
Three years of gentlemanly leadership by
Mr. Moore has failed to give Queensland
back its Leg. Council. The elections are
due in May, and Mr. Moore’s party is so
busy squabbling over its rights to this or
that seat that it has no time to organise
for the fight. Everyone knows that the
crude political reason for the failure to
resurrect the Council is that a few of his
followers demanded a five-year session, and
made this a condition for their support to
the Council Bill. Such was the gentle-
manliness of Mr. Moore that he could
neither face so raw a deal nor tell the bar-
gainers to get out and do their worst, after
the manner of a rough Scotch artisan like
Kidston, for example.
So Queensland has no Chamber of Re-
view, and at present very small hope of
getting one when Parliament dissolves in
May; for a squabbling, disorganised Nat.
party faces a large public-service vote
actively hostile as a result of Mr. Moore’s
semi-solid actions in the Baker case, and a
still larger general vote which is willing to
chance King Stork in order to get rid of
King Log. On the other side is the well-
organised State Labor machine, which
showed its strength in the Federal elections.
So, with the bright example of Mr. Lang
next door, Q. seems likely, after May,
unless there is some - very sudden repent-
ance, to provide a demonstration of how
Labor can deal with any blood-sucking
capitalist who thinks he can cheat the
toilers out of what is his. But, if Mr.
Moore is Leader of the Opposition, the
capitalist can be assured of his gentlemanly
sympathy.
♦
Above the Law.
Dear Bulletin, —With grim sardonic humor
Lang’s Industrial Bill is entitled “The
Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act
1931.” But a microscope must be employed
to detect a trace of conciliation or arbitra-
tion within its four corners. Let me extract
one morsel from it (Clause 24) :
(2) Where an order or award made [by the Indus-
trial Commission or Committee] in respect of any
industrial matter is inconsistent with any provisions
relating to such industrial matter contained in any
Act, the order or award shall prevail, and the
provisions of such Act shall to the extent of the
inconsistency be suspended during the period in
which such order or award is in force.
“Industrial matter” is defined in the bill as
embracing practically everything that
human ingenuity can devise; and in order
that nothing shall escape, the definition
finishes up with “any other matter which
the Commission or a committee may deter-
mine to be' an industrial matter”! The
clause would thus enable the Commission or
a committee to override or ignore the
provisions of any Act of Parliament relating
to an industrial matter; and an “industrial
matter” is anything that the Commission
or Committee says is an industrial matter!
The brazen impudence and cynical insolence
of such a proposal are beyond my power of
description, especially when we consider
who would be likely to constitute the Com-
mission and the Committees.—Yours,
Daniel Levy.
♦
Costs in the Secondary Industries.
A dissection of the dividends lately paid by
Australian industrial cos. shows that, with
very few exceptions, the brewing cos. are
doing very well: this is the most prosperous
group in Australia at present. Next on the
list is a very small section, mostly very small
cos., which have had great benefits from
the Forde tariff; two or three of these are
still able to pay 10 p.c. or more. Then
come the larger group of public utilities,
enjoying a monopoly or thereabouts and
still keeping the wolf well away from the
door—mainly the sugar, tobacco and gas
cos. But when you have passed through
these groups all benefiting by special cir-
cumstances, you come into what is almost
a desert. Following are a dozen industrial
companies whose accounts have been dis-
sected in this paper during the past few
weeks, the list being made as representative
as The Bulletin knows how:—
Ord.
Company. Profit. Loss. Dividend
Q. Meat . . • ■ £5,296 Nil
Sulphide Corp. .. 67,670 Nil
Hume Steel .. £977 Nil
Mort’s Dock . < 6,626 Nil
R. Fowler . . 22,339 Nil
Warburton Franki. . 7,619 Nil
Peters (Vic.) .. ' 18,785 Nil
H. M. Leggo .. 7,534 Nil
Amalg. Textiles . . 5,218 Nil
Denton Hats .. 2,416 2l
Rosella Preserving 24,302 e'
W. E. Smith ... 8,767 Nil
Now, it is quite true that thus far the
financial and trading cos. have done a little
better than this, though some of them have
made very heavy losses. But it is not to
the financiers and the traders that we can
look for any increase of employment; it is
to the industrial group, and especially those
in the mixed class just brought together—
not even to the gas and tobacco cos. and
breweries, which employ probably almost
as many people now as they did in prosper-
ous times. Where relief ought to come
from, the position is appallingly bad.
For two years past we have been urging
upon the community that the working costs
of the primary producer must come down if
he is to be in a position to compete suc-
cessfully with the foreigner. It seems quite
as clear that the working costs of the
secondary producer must come down, too,
if he is to keep his works going.
*
Why All This Peregrinating?
Dear Bulletin, —Why should the track be
considered a kind of refuge or last resort
for the unemployed? The track has no
manna upon it. The place the bagman is
going to usually has no more prospect of
remunerative employment than the place
he is going from. His method of travel is
necessarily slow, uncertain and hard, and
returns no useful dividend. Why should
the State insist on so much perambulation
in return for its dole? It savors to me of
Pilate washing his hands of the embarrass-
ing victim and passing him on to the next
authority. If the State could harness all
those weary, broken-booted, blistered feet
to some sort of dynamo so that their aggre-
gate could be stored as industrial horse-
power, there would be more to it.
A static population would cost the State
no more and could have better value for
the dole. Any man could have a better
shelter and gather about him more of com-
fort without cash expenditure if given
security of tenure. Take my own town as
typical of hundreds of farming centres.
Plenty of tillable land is available, idle
town lots, river frontages, railway reserves,
Crown lands that, lent rent- and tax-free,
could be camp sites and kitchen gardens.
And has not a man got a better chance of
being absorbed into employment where his
character and capacity for work are known?
Will he not hold a better social standing
even as one of the unemployed in his own
district than as one of a great unknown,
semi-ostracised army of travellers, who lose
touch with better-placed friends and pos-
sible openings and opportunities?
Any town could find tools and equipment
in- a neighborly way. Firewood could be
arranged for without handling money. In
the country food supplies could be arranged
for more cheaply. Educational classes,
handicraft recreation even, should be within
the reach of a proletariat that was
acquainted with one another. A term on the
dole might even be character-building in-
stead of revolution-building,—Yours, L’Fou.
The Case of the Tobacco-grower.
Is an import duty of 3s. a pound adequate
protectipn for the tobacco-growers? The
Tariff Board says it is, the growers say it is
not. They point out that when the duty
was 2s. Bd. production showed no increase
worth talking of; it has only gone ahead in
a striking fashion since Forde made the
rate ss. 2d. Gullett, Forde’s successor,
admits that production has leapt from
2.000,0001 b. to 6,000,0001 b., but argues that
this means a revenue loss of £1,000,000 in a
twelvemonth if the duties are left as at
present. So he has pulled down Customs
2s. 2d. a pound and raised excise 2s. 2d.,
equal to 7s. 6d.
The revenue argument is important, but
it is not the only thing to be considered.
And much more than a million could be
made up by wiping out surplus departments
and tightening up administration in others;
it is scandalous that the Postmaster-Gen-
eral should report another heavy loss on a
concern which has a monopoly of postal
business, telephones, telegrams and wireless,
and charges tuppence for delivering a
letter. In the past couple of years two
or three thousand people, mostly depression-
hit city men and workers who saved money
in the good times, have gone in for
tobacco-growing, and many of them are pro-
ducing excellent leaf already. By increas-
ing production, lessening the strain of
imports, showing that never again need
£3,000,000 or £4,000,000 be sent abroad in
one year for unmanufactured tobacco, and
demonstrating the possibilities of the small
holding in relieving the tragic surplus of
city population, they are doing good work
for Australia. It would be a calamity if
so promising a development were arrested by
tariff action. Protection should be no one-
sided arrangement; the grower is as much
entitled to it as the manufacturer who
makes up his raw material. When there
is a doubt as to whether the protection is
sufficient the grower should get the benefit
of it.
*
News from the Far North.
From our Special War Correspondent on
the home front; —
■ China has resumed relations with the Soviet.
They were broken off after the Kuomintang had
got all the help it wanted from Borodin and his
Bolshevik confreres, but didn’t want to pay
Borodin’s price of communising China. In return
Russia has rent 100,000 ambassadors of goodwill to
the Siberian-Manchurian frontier and is feverishly
building forts on Amur Bay in order to improve
the local architecture.
Hoover has sent ships, 122 in number, to con-
duct sham fights along the Pacific coast, there
being a dearth of the usual tourist attractions
there this year.
Mr Pu-Yi, the ex-Emperor of China, has blos-
somed forth’into Chief of the Executive of Man-
churia, and his administration expects to be
speedily recognised by the rest of the world
Powers, especially as Japan has already done so.
Emboldened at the possibly fallacious hope that
foreign aid will be forthcoming, the Chinese Gov-
ernment, which is suffering from gout, rickets,
creeping paralysis and malnutrition, but is other-
wise healthy, is sending a punitive expedition to
chastise Mr.' Pu, and, incidentally, to recover Man-
churia. The Japs are taking the necessary steps
to give them a warm reception.
In well-informed circles it is alleged that the
destruction of half the modern and semi-international
city of Shanghai was planned by Japan to divert
the attention of the world from her restoration of
law and order in Manchuria, always a painful
spectacle. The Japanese Government now announces
that it is fighting the Chinese forces because they
are Communist; and it is a poor scrapper who can’t
find good reasons for scrapping as he goes along.
Still, many inland provinces of China have been
Communist for some time, and the movement is
spreading.
A Peace Army of 300 pacifists is reported to be
on the way to China to throw themselves between
the forces of the two combatants. It is presumed
that, unless the belligerents provide them with pass-
ports and transport facilities, they will be dropped
into position from aeroplanes.
The proposal to boycott Japan is being favorably
received by small nations which have no trade
with her.
A League committee, having sped across the
Atlantic, torn across the States and rushed across
the Pacific, was last heard of as drinking tea with
the Mikado, preparatory to going to Manchuria to
make an investigation. At this time of the year
they should have fine weather for it.
♦
Pork and Provincialism.
“Valerin” : Being keenly interested in
experiments at Canberra in breeding for
pork production and utilising cheap wheat
to the best advantage, I suggested to some
N.S.W. Agricultural Bureaus that they
should secure the officer in charge to read
a paper on the subject at one of their
conferences. The Commonwealth authori-
ties were agreeable, but a request to the
State Department of Agriculture met with
a point-blank refusal; in fact, a letter was
sent to the Council of Scientific and Indus-
trial Research strongly objecting to any
of its officers giving lectures or reading
papers in country centres of N. S. Wales!
Isn’t it time this wretched provincialism
was choked?
»
The Country in Conference.
Dear Bulletin, —This year’s annual N.S.W.
Graziers’ Conference has ended after wast-
ing much time and paper on hopeless reso-
lutions. Anything with a germ of a good
idea, such as appraisement, better market-
ing methods, etc., were enthusiastically
scuttled. For many years I attended these
conferences, till I was fed up to the back
teeth. There are always plenty of “fight-
ing” delegates—outside. Inside, a grunt
from the front benches where the wool-
brokers’ representatives are entrenched
causes the snipers to go to cover like alarmed
rabbits. Why shouldn’t these conferences
be held in large country towns like Goul-
bum, Wagga, Bathurst, Tamworth, etc.,
away from city influences? If the pubs
cannot accommodate us, there’s plenty of
vacant allotments. But for Heaven’s sake
let us have a “graziers’ ” conference com-
posed of graziers and held in the country.—•
Yours, Grazier Since the ’Eighties.
+
Maoriland’s Economic Committee.
Maoriland called in an “Economic Com-
mittee,” too, to advise it how to get out
of its difficulties. But why a committee;
consisting of schoolmasters? For these
gentlemen, as teachers, this paper has the
greatest respect, and as consultants or even
as “devils” they might be very valuable;
no doubt Professor Gregory and his young
associate were most useful to Sir Otto Nie-
meyer in his mission to Australia. But
what great bank or business house in Aus-
tralia would feel justified in handing its
control over to a young man because he
had won the highest possible distinction in
an academic course in Economics? Why,
then, look to a committee consisting almost
wholly of professors of Economics for guid-
ance in the infinitely complicated matter of
a nation’s business? It seems to be time
to insist that when Governments want
help they should call in practical men who
have made a success of their own affairs.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - * - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lS Birchin Lane. Lombard Street. E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts oi
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
0
jjnvs
jJhe
Magnificent
Most Beautiful of all
Canadian Rockies Resorts
See this wonderland of the Rockies on the
Canadian Pacific route to Europe. You can
golf, ride, swim, climb and dance. Never a
dull moment. Bracing climate, magnificent
scenery. Palatial Hotel with C.P.R. Service.
Arrange to stop-over at Banff for a new
kind of holiday. Write for booklets to
Canadian Pacific,
247 George Street, Sydney.
7/31.2
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
Jhe World's Oi'eatestZJi'avel System
POLITICAL
POINTS
In the Reps, the other day Scullin men-
tioned a proposal to sell the 10 millions of
gold we’ve got left, and invest the proceeds
tn British Treasury bills. There is nothing
wrong about that; invested in saleable
British bonds the 10 millions will bring in
over half a million a year, while lying in
gold in the Commonwealth Bank it brings
in nothing. And so long as it is held in
saleable British bonds it will serve the pur-
pose of a last line of defence —to be used in
paying a debt in London when every other
means of paying fails —just as well as if it
were in gold and held here.
At least one member of Mr. Lang’s Min-
istry seems to be harboring doubts about his
boss’s wonderful “Plan.” “Thanks to the
Lang Government,” Minister for Llealtli Ely
told a meeting of unemployed, “your wages
will still be high when you get back to work,
though God knows when that will be.” It
reminds this paper of a dear old lady who,
LANG (in the 34th year of his Ministry) :
“Here, Grandad, you’re the last of the
unemployed. Take this pick and shovel,
and I’m proud to tell you you’ll get
full union rates for digging your own
grave.”
disgusted with the sort of clothes her daugh-
ter-in-law was making for the old ladyhs
grandson, said she would knit him a suit
of rompers herself. But the old lady left
off so often to set the world right that by
the time she had finished the job and handed
over the rompers, made according to the
original pattern, the grandson was 18 years
old and 6 feet long.
It has been suggested that our poor little
gold reserve might be sold and the proceeds
used to pay off floating debt. That plan is
no good. Gold reserves are nowadays main-
tained not to back currencies but to make
foreign payments —something to fall back on
when the country which owns the reserve is
in a tight place and can’t get out of it any
other way. The reserve might well be trans-
ferred to London and used there for the same
protective purpose; but to transfer it and
then part with it without a struggle will rob
us of about the only sheet-anchor we have
left. The one serious argument in favor of
keeping it unprofitably in Australia is that
held here it couldn’t be so easily or lightly
disposed of.
Commissioner Ewing’s report on the enter-
tainments tax, which he now collects for
N. S. Wales, irresistibly recalls Falstaff’s
bill for sack and bread. In the first year
of the State impost he got £62,184 from
picture-shows, £14,070 from theatres, £7750
from race meetings, £6804 from dance-
halls and skating-rinks, £2972 from boxing
and wrestling, £ll9O from circuses, £897
from concerts and —yes, £1 15s. Bd. from
lectures.
An unemployment loan of £5,000,000, or
more if possible, is now proposed by the Vic.
Hogans. The inducement to be offered to
the Loan Council is to utilise the £1,500,000
p.a. now raised in unemployment taxes for
interest and sinking fund and spend the
loan money on work (well rationed) instead
of doles. Argyle, Opposition-leader, sup-
ports the proposal, but suggests that some
of. the money should be used to stimulate
languishing private industries. Whether it’s
a good or a bad plan depends wholly on what
work the money buys. If it is unproductive,
it is of no value and is merely the dole in
another form. Far better to pay part of
the dole to men by way of bonus on pro-
duction.
A nice little point has been raised regard-
ing the Lang Government’s nominee Mooney,
who was chosen to take Duncan’s place as
a Senator until June 30. The Constitution
says that, if a Senator’s place becomes
vacant, the Parliament of his State shall
“choose a person to hold the place until the
expiration of the term or until the election
of a successor, whichever first happens.
Then: —
At the next general election.... a successor shall,
if the term has not then expired, be chosen to hold
the place... .until the expiration of the term.
Some constitutional lawyers hold that, a
general election of Senators having been held,
Mooney has no status as a Senator. But the
question seems to be whether the “next
general election” means the next general
election after the vacancy or the next general
election after the temporary Senator’s appoint-
ment, which did not take place till after
the general election. To The Bulletin it
looks very much as though Mooney is set
for four months. In any case he can do
so little harm that the settlement of the
point seems hardly worth going to any
expense over.
In the N.S.W. Leg. Council, after a long
sitting, word went round that the Goveiui-
ment had called it a day, and some of its
forces put on their hats as if to go home.
Then, when it was suspected that enough of
the Opposition were out of the way, the
highly contentious bill to raid the insurance
offices before the Commonwealth could stop it
was rushed in. The plot failed ; but it opens
up a fine vista. What would be wrong with
hiring a ferryboat, establishing a Leg. Coun-
cil on board and making a few of the Oppo-
sition walk the plank?
Amendments to Maoriland’s Arbitration
Act have been brought down by the Forbes-
Coates coalition, aiming at deletion of com-
pulsory arbitration. Conferences are to be
compulsory, but if the parties fail to agree
neither, side can approach the Court without
the consent of the other. The Laborites
under Holland have resorted to stonewall-
ing in order to prevent the introduction of
this measure, and to counteract these tactics
Forbes threatens to use his majority to im-
pose the gag as a “permanent feature of
the standing orders.” In attacking the com-
pulsory principle the Government no doubt
seems to be taking chances in a community
in which wage-earners and their dependants
constitute 75 p.c. of the population ; but it
is probably bearing in mind that only 25
p.c. of the wage-earners are members of
unions.
Because of the lack of space 50 women
patients at Kew mental hospital (Melb.)
have to sleep on the floor. Yet the Vic.
State taxation per head has gone from
£1 2s. Bd. in 1913-14 to £4 3s. Id. in 1930,
and the total loan expenditure from 87 mil-
lions as at June, 1919, to 182 millions as
at June, 1930. There are 50 people who
ought to be sleeping on the floor, and they
are not the female patients in the mental
hospital either.
Apparently with the idea of showing that
when he defaults it is because he has to
and not because he wants to, Lang met the
N.S.W. interest obligations for the current
LANG: “Have a cigar, old man.”
J.B.: “Why, what’s the matter with it?”
month. He picked out a little one —£188,000.
The February payments on which he de-
faulted, and which the other States had to
meet, amounted to £958,000.
McLachlan, the Minister who took over
Bruce’s fancy department of Development,
visited Newnes lately, and, being a hard-
headed business man, decided that he would
rather see private enterprise chancing its
money there than the hard-up Common-
wealth. Two things alleged to be in favor
of Newnes are that a vast amount has been
spent there already, and that it has a retort-
ing plant. Whether the first is really in
its favor depends on how the money has been
spent, and it hasn’t been spent wisely; the
other depends on whether the plant suits
modern requirements, and that is doubtful.
On the other side is the fact that mining
can’t be cheap at Newnes; it would pro-
bably be cheaper in a dozen other places.
However, apparently the whole box and
dice on which over a million and a half has
been spent can be got for a few thousands,
and the stuff is so rich, though so hard to
get at just there, that somebody may make
money out of it. But if the Commonwealth
has any money to spend on helping this
shale industry, it ought to go where the
dice are not so heavily loaded against it.
With the elections due in May, Queens-
land electors are beginning to take notice.
Labor plebiscites will be held on March 19,
and the Ministerial organisation hopes to
have its nominations arranged by the end
of the month. For Maree, once represented
by ex-Speaker Bertram, and now altered,
there are four candidates for selection;
among them are the sitting member, Ted-
man, and Mrs. Longman, member for
Bulimba. For the new electorate of the
Tableland (N.Q.), Atherton, the Minister
for Mines, who sat for the vanished elector-
ate of Chillagoe, has been the unanimous
pick.
Wickham Steed, lormer editor of the
“Times,” takes a gloomy view of the trend
of things in Asia. Japan, he says, presses
steadily on, knowing what it wants; and
THE FALSE EOONOMIST: “What a fool I was
to let it get into this state!”
“its domination of China and the Pacific
would lead to a conflict with' America, in
which Canada and Australasia could hardly
be neutral.”
H. Pye, president of Swan Hill shire, and
the local bright-light of the Cocky party, was
elected unopposed for North-western Pro-
vince to the Vic. House of Lords. W. J.
McCann, who resigned to stand (unsuccess-
fully) for the Wimmera (Reps.) electorate,
did not nominate, pleading ill-health. Mc-
Cann was a Rural Prog., but joined the
united crowd when Dunstan, Cleary and
Allnutt lined up with Allan’s bunch in the
Assembly. The walkover has saved Vic.
Treasury £lOOO in election exes. But Plush
Chambah members for this province are sel-
dom opposed.
An attempt having been made by the Lang
Government to boycott Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph” for its criticism of the Premier, the
paper retorted by a very nasty disclosure,
backed by the evidence of a debenture at the
Registrar-General’s office, showing that Lang
had lent £13,764 to the “Labor Daily” at
5 p.c. interest, the mortgagee being described
as auctioneer, of Auburn. Now, J. T. Lang,
auctioneer, of Auburn, has a perfect right
to lend £13,764 to the “Labor Daily” at 5
p.c.; but the matter takes on quite a differ-
ent complexion if, as is suggested, J. T.
Lang, Premier of N. S. Wales, gives the
newspaper in whose welfare he is so keenly
interested Government advertisements out of
all proportion to its influence. The “Labor
Daily,” which naturally had to say some-
thing about the exposure, said “it would in-
spire the workers with new confidence to
learn that the Premier had thrown his. money
as well as his strength in the bitter and
strenuous fight” which it was waging against
the forces of capital. Which provoked the
obvious inquiry why it didn’t broadcast the
inspiring news itself instead of leaving a
contemporary to ferret it out.
Cain, Vic. Minister for Railways, will be
opposed for Northcote by W. Olver, Mayor
of Northcote, at next general election for
the Assembly, which may be as near as July.
H. P. Zwar, a Preston municipal councillor,
has decided to give Gordon Webber, Assis-
tant Minister for Labor, a run for Heidel-
berg. Two years ago Labor would have
scoffed at the possibility of Nats, or IJ.A.P.-
ers having any chance against Cain and
Webber, but the overthrow of Federal Min-
ister Frank Brennan by Dennis for the Reps,
and of State Minister Bill Beckett by
Olney for the “other place” has put a differ-
ent complexion on the outlook. In addition
Bruce, whose electorate takes in portion of
Webber’s State electorate, was helped back
to the Reps, by votes from that area. No
wonder Hogan does not feel very cheerful
as he sets out on his trip to England.
Supporting a request by Geelong Laborites
that a nominee of theirs (H. J. Hillier)
should be appointed to Geelong Harbor
Trust, I*. Kenwortliy, sec. of local Trades
Hall Council, said to Acting-Premier Tunne-
cliffe: “It is time something came our way
in the matter of public appointments, as
we have a Labor Government in power.”
No beating about the bush there. We scratch
your back and you scratch ours.
Lang spoiled his chance of carrying the
bill to Sovietise industry in N. S. Wales
by neglecting to first rope in the A.W.U.
Australia’s biggest and best organised
union is not on speaking terms with the
Communist push at the Trades Hall; hence
when the A.W.U. saw that industry was
being handed over to the Trades Hall, it
could see a cold time coming. This strength-
ened the hands of the Coates-Higgins wing
of the Labor party in the Leg. Council; and,
in the language of Bruce according to the
apostle Lang, it had the tripes cut out of it.
Politics don’t change much. Extract from
Aristotle (384-322 b.c. )
The insolence of demagogues is generally the cause
of the ruin of democracies.... Sometimes they raise
the upper and middle classes against them by seizing
on private property, or the public revenue and
dividing the proceeds in various forms of bribery
and corruption. Sometimes they attack the rich by
process of law, that they may have their property
to apply to the support of their Government....
Now, since oratory has been so much cultivated, men
who are able speakers are the great demagogues. .. .
The great instrument by which they accomplish their
ends is the confidence of the people, and this they
win by the hatred they display against the rich....
Changes occur also from the old form of democracy
to one still more democratic, in which no qualifica-
tion is required from either electors or elected....
The cry still goes up that nothing must
be done to lower the standard of living in
Australia. Nobody wants to lower the
standard of living; but if the people to
whom we sell our wool and our wheat and
our metals won’t pay us as much for them
as they used to, what can be done about it?
Down the street there is a hairdresser wlio
says he has to live on less because his
competitors have reduced the price of a hair-
cut to ninepence, and he has had to do it,
too. The difference between some of us and
this barber is that he isn’t fool enough to
think he can maintain his old standard of
living in such circumstances, and we are.
Encouraged by the fact that with one
exception all previous Vic. Opposition lead-
ers since Federation attained the Premier-
ship. Argyle is making his bid. The one
exception w r as Donald Mackinnon, who did
not have a long innings. Argyle has led
the Left for two years, including the time he
was acting while McPherson was travelling
abroad. He can’t afford to wait indefinitely:
no leader could with a young man of Men-
zies’ size pressing on behind him.
Mr. Lang really should appoint a well-
paid' censor of the pictures of the Sydney
Bridge, with which the world is being
papered. Many of them show the structure
as a vast leech stretching out from the
city and humping its back as it sucks the
country’s blood. To every visiting bush
taxpayer such a reminder savors of rubbing
it in.
Mr. Lang has announced that his political
lieutenants are not for sale at any
price.
The rumpus over the tobacco duties is a
warning to Page and Hardy that low
tariffism won’t do. Country men are not
yearning for a low tariff before everything.
They hope for new States, with capitals
that will grow into big and prosperous
industrial towns or cities, and they know
a low tariff will never build them.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
KEEPING IT IN THE FAMILY.
JACK: “When I spoke to your father I told him I had a hundred
pounds in the bank.”
BETTY: “And what did he say?”
JACK: “He borrowed it.”
“Maritus” : A Ballarat magistrate encoun-
tered a new form of matrimonial infelicity
the other day when a husband appealed to
the Court for protection from his wife. He
was a miner sinking a shaft, on a private
claim, and the lady, he said, was accustomed
to pay periodical visits to the shaft and drop
stones down it. The complainant added that
he did not mind so much for himself, but his
mate was also greatly inconvenienced, for a
stone falling down a shaft cannot be ex-
pected to discriminate. His Wushup dodged
the issue by adjourning the matter for a
month to give the lady a chance of altering
her playful ways. It is worth noting that
she answered to the coy and shrinking name
of Daphne.
“Kyn”: There was some smothered mirth
in a Melbourne court last week when a hus-
band, seeking to have a maintenance order
reduced, unfolded a chapter of his domestic
woes. In happier days he had bought two
adjoining blocks of land in an urban area
and presented one to his wife. The “home”
was built partly on one allotment and partly
on the other; now relations had become so
strained that he lived on his own section of
the property and she on hers. Thus the
wife held the kitchen from which the hus-
band was barred, and he had to go out
for a hot meal. On the other hand it was
shown, on behalf of the wife, that she and
the children were shut out of the bath, which
was on Mr. Rian’s side of the caboose. That
the maintenance money had enabled the wife
to purchase a car and a cow was another
complaint of the husband; the wife retorted
that if her semi-detached consort had applied
himself properly to his job of berry-growing
he would have been prosperous. lhe up-
shot was a reduction of maintenance by los.
a * * *
“Nitwit”: The contortions of the exchange
market produce some, remarkable happenings.
Some time ago a Melbourne family set out
on a world tour. To evade the exchange
rate they bought wool and shipped it to
London, relying on the proceeds to carry
NO CHANGE OCT OF THAT.
MAUD: “Did Norman tell you he proposed to me before you accepted him?”
MABEL: “Oh, I can’t remember half the silly things he said to me.”
them through Europe and America. On the
way out wool prices rose sufficiently to
obtain them a fair profit on the deal. When
their European trip was over the remainder
of the money was sent to New York —and
two days later Britain forsook the gold
standard. On returning to Melbourne last
week, the travellers found that after pay-
ing’ all expenses of the trip, they were about
£9 in pocket!
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An Adelaide motorist claims the
oddest engine-trouble on record. Out duck-
shooting on the Murray, he noticed an occa-
sional but not serious misfire. After a long
drive home, he left the car alone for two
days; then he raised the bonnet for an over-
haul—and found a four-foot tiger-snake
coiled up inside.
* * * *
“Old Lag”: An ingenious American has
put on the market a device for ear-marking,
so to speak, escaping criminals or the
vehicle they are get-
ting away in. This
is a large-bored air-
pistol firing a rubber
globe filled with a
substance that is
luminous by night
and bright red by
day. If it strikes
the back of a fleeing
motor-car the latter
will be easily trace-
able through the
densest traffic, and
will be known by all
for what it is. I
fancy it would shat-
ter the morale _ of
the sturdiest criminal
if he had to flit
through the streets
with a large dash of
red paint or a blaz-
ing phosphorescence
on the back of him.
I can almost feature
such a one, after the
bullet has found its
billet, backing has-
tily against a wall
or sitting abruptly on the pavement and
saying to his pursuers, “All right; 111 come
quiet ”*
“Buttons”: Somebody suggested the other
day, apropos of over-staffed civil services,
that if every Australian in Government
employ were compelled to wear some dis-
tinguishing mark thereof there would be
such a yell, as their overwhelming numbers
were thus forced on the attention of a long-
suffering public, that long-overdue reforms
and economies would be bound to follow.
There is at least one State where, in the
early days, such a regulation was enforced.
G. F. Moore, who was Advocate-General of
Westralia a century ago and left some valu-
able records of his experiences, mentions
that at Executive Council meetings his col-
leagues appeared in blue coats with red
collars and buttons with, a crown on them.
All civil servants, he added, whether or not
they ran to blue coats, were required to
wear these buttons.
;J; $ •!• $
“S.F.”: A bedroom scene in a recent
film recalls a nearly identical happening in
Melbourne a few years ago. A leading firm
of furnishers had a window equipped as an
up-to-date sleeping apartment, the piece de
resistance being a beautiful gilt double-bed
with pink silk cushions like Zeppelins, and
a huge pink quilt like a partially deflated
balloon. It was the cynosure of thousands
of flappers’ eyes. But one Friday night a
youth associated with the business and a
lively bachelor friend went merrymaking. By
some mischance they found themselves
inside the shop after the doors had been
locked and the blinds on the windows drawn
On the following morning an assistant raised
the blinds o"n the firm’s de luxe exhibit and
disclosed the revellers sunk in profound
slumber on the bed.
* * * *
“Medic” : Watching the Prince in a recent
news-reel I diagnosed an embarrassing ner-
vous trouble. He continually adjusted his
tie, though it didn’t need adjusting, and
pulled his coat into a fresh position with
a jerk of the right arm and left shoulder.
Some members of the audience found it
comic, and, after a while, guffawed every
time he repeated the gesture they were look-
ing for; to others it was distressing. Ster-
etepy, which is the name of this disease, can
claim some illustrious victims. Dr. Johnson
had to step on each paving stone in his path
as he walked down Fleet-street; if he missed
one he retraced his steps and stood on it
before resuming his journey. Rousseau,
Swift, Poe and some of the Prince’s ances-
tors were sufferers in one form or another.
* * * *
“Verri”: The duplication of British and
local place-names (B. 17/2/’32) used to
give the Maoriland postal authorities their
share of tribulation also. At one time there
was an idiotic ruling that the most im-
portant place of
the name should
have preference if
a letter bore no
indication of the
country for which
it was destined,
wherefore a
Maorilander who
dispatched a mis-
sive to the near-
Auckland town-
ship of Bombay
was not unlikely
to get it returned
to him from
India.
sfc *
“R. Volt”: A
landmark in Vic-
torian wireless
development will
go wlie n tln>
Domain station is
demolished short-
ly. It was
erected in 1911
by the Govern-
ment for experi-
mental purposes,
but was put to
practical use in
the war, being
employed by the
Defence Depart-
ment to communi-
cate with war-
ships and trans-
ports. Then
A m a 1 g a mated
Wireless pur-
chased it. Later
it was used by
the Police De-
partment to keep
in touch with the
motor patrols,
but for the last
IS months it has
been silent. Its
180-foot mast
dominates the
Shrine of Re-
membrance and is
said to be a
menace to the '
public, or at any rate to the small boys,
owing to the decrepit condition of the stays.
A few weeks ago a horrified policeman
observed two specimens of the genus perched
on the very top of the affair.
... * * *
“Harold Hardupp'’: No doubt of the Aus-
tralian youngster’s enterprise. One of the
journals' that pays for ’phoned news recently
featured a story of the heroic rescue by two
of his cobbers of a 14-year-old boy who had
been caught by the surf undertow. It made
a thrilling taie and the gang had quite a
beano on pictures, ice-creams and ginger-
beer, not to mention “fags,” when the money
was collected. The real joke was that as
soon as the conspirators had arranged all
the details that were to furnish the beach
sensation, one of them betook himself to the
nearest ’phone to send the news before it
had actually happened. They were taking
no chances of any outsider getting in with
the information first.
# * * *
“The Hatter”: Although I do not know
of the reactions of any archbishop to the
hatless habit (B. 10/2/;32), I know of
one bishop who viewed with something like
horror the tendency among
some of his younger clergy to
discard headgear. His usual
clear diction became quite
confused and he found diffi-
culty in adequately expressing
his opinion of a cheery hand-
wave as a salutation, instead
of the lifted hat, when the
said .younger clergy met Mrs.
Bisli. There were some who
professed to find pleasure in
this episcopal agitation, but
I couldn’t see the joke. But
then, I didn’t wear a hat in
those days.
* * *
“Pitsani” : Though the late
Dr. Jameson, unlike De
Valera, was never sentenced
to death (B. 2/3/’32), he only
missed the experience through
the British Government claim-
ing him and his fellow-raiders
as their meat. His associates
of the .Johannesburg Reform
Committee had a tougher
spin. Lionel Phillips, Hays
Hammond, George Farrar and
Frank Rhodes were tried at
Pretoria, convicted of high
treason against the Transvaal,
although they were not citi-
zens, and the death sentence
passed on them, a sentence
subsequently commuted to im-
prisonment and banishment.
Oom Paul and his colleagues
a couple of months later de-
cided to release the Reform
leaders on payment of fines of
£25,000 apiece, in default 15
years’ banishment; Phillips,
Hammond and Farrar paid
up, but Frank Rhodes pre-
ferred the alternative. Phillips, now a
baronet, is the only survivor.
* * * *
“Vandenbosch”: A Siamese pilgrim *to
Mecca was recently picked up by the P.
and O. Strathaird after he had been in the
water some hours surrounded by sharks. He
had dropped off another British ship, the
Antilochus. The incident recalls Joseph
Conrad’s story “Lord Jim,” which was
founded on fact. A pilgrim ship has
its bows stove in by a derelict in the middle
of the night. The German captain, observ-
ing that there is only one seaworthy boat,
and that the pilgrims are numerous and all
asleep, summons the officers and engineers,
and they all put to sea. They eventually
arrive in India, where they relate how the
ship went down and they were the only sur-
vivors. In the meantime a French cruiser
has stumbled on the ship, which, owing to
the holding of the for’ard bulkhead, has
CITED.
“D’you know that fellow over there, Betty? That’s the one I got
mixed up in the divorce case with.”
“I see. You know him by cite.”
stayed afloat. It is black from deck to truck
with bewildered pilgrims unable to account
for the absence of the crew. Just as the
captain is telling his story to the examina-
tion board, the cruiser arrives in port with
the lost ship in tow, and there is hell to
pay. British and other ships go round the
Asiatic archipelago at these times collect-
ing human freight like bales of wool. It
is doubtful if there are always sufficient
boats for the clotted mass of humanity, and
officers are constantly likely to be faced with
the grim alternatives described in Conrad’s
tale.
THE COMFORTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Ely, N.S.W. Minister for Health, told a
meeting of unemployed that, thanks to the hang
Government, their wages would still be fairly high
when they got back to work, though God only
knows,’ he added, ‘when that will be.
Cheer up, though you chance to be out of
a job
And the outlook is blue. ...
At Parliament House there s a dominant
Whose brains are a-working, whose hearts
are a-throb
Entirely for you. . , ~ . ,
There’s a turning at last in the lengthiest
lane, , ,
And you’ll find that our efforts have not
been in vain
When you thankfully get into collar again
(If ever you do).
We are cherubs aloft on our perches who
roost,
And, oh! we grow hot
When we hear the heretical doctrine un-
loosed,
More work would be waiting were wages
reduced,
And similar rot.
Sit tight, and be sure that while we have
our way
There’s never a penny will come oft your
pay
(Regardless of whether for many a day
There’s any or not).
New wages awards have impossible grown ;
The Court’s in a hole.
A masterly trick of Jack Lang’s, you must
own,
Since not even “Piddo” can function alone,
Benignant old soul.
To think how adroitly the business was
planned,
And your services still their old value com-
mand ,
Must be some consolation at least, when
you stand
In line for the dole.
Crack hardy! The knowledge should lighten
the stress
Of your wants and your woes,
That when you emerge from enforced recess,
Your envelopes won’t contain anything less
Of bunco than in those
Brave days before industry got in the mire,
When few couldn’t earn their legitimate hire.
And when will that be, do I hear you in-
quire ?
Why God only knows!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Leg Bail”: The recapture of Richards,
the Jack Sheppard of Yatala (S.A.), and
his second escape and swifter recapture at
Brisbane will doubtless ensure him a sub-
stantial addition to the 10-year sentence
he was serving. Even the new penology has
stopped short of alleviating the convict’s
lot in this respect, although if a prisoner
escapes from behind gaol walls without
violence it doesn’t seem quite a fair thing
to treat his dash for freedom as another
grave crime. After all, it is the business of
the warders to keep him, not his to be kept.
Yet it is not so long since exploits of this
PLACED.
“She is French, isn’t she?”
“Oh, yes—and she gets such smart clothes from home. She’s a Parisite, you know.”
sort were punished savagely. As lately as
1899 two convicts who had escaped from
Fremantle gaol without assaulting any of
their custodians, and whose period of free-
dom had been short-lived, were sentenced
to a flogging, in addition to an extra term of
imprisonment, by a magistrate brought up
in the traditions of the bad old days. There
was a public outcry, and it was the last
time the cat has been ordered for an offence
of the kind.
& * *
“Laranaga”: Cigar-smoking for women
seems to have definitely established itself in
the British Isles, though it has long been
habitual with the female of the species
in places as far apart as Burma and San-
tiago del Cuba. One enterprising tradesman
has established a shop in the West End of
London for women’s cigars only. His
advertisement explains that they are mostly
short.- slim cigars of a light Borneo tobacco.
Heavy cigarette-smokers are trying the new
wares to cure the cigarette-chain habit, and
because they do not stain the fingers. Above
all, cigar-smoking is supposed to induce a
marked distaste for fatty foods, and this
suits the lass from 15 to 50 who is, keen
on preserving that girlish figure.
“Nakhoda”: Helsingfors, which has been
isolated by a Fascist rising in the country,
seems to have fallen. from its high estate
of happiness since I visited it in 1914. The
ship that took me there from Petrograd
was manned by Finnish women, except for
the executive positions. There were 22
women in the Finnish Parliament, and the
city had all the air of being managed by
women with all the domestic virtues of
cleanliness, neatness and good taste. Although
Finland has only two months of summer
the parks and garden-lined central streets
were full of open-air cafds. There is a noble
institution known as smorgasbord. A side-
board is loaded with hors d’wuvres of amaz-
ing variety and gastronomical excellence.
You select enough for a reasonable appetiser,
and then go to the main table for your prin-
cipal dishes, which are the only ones charged
for. It says something for the innate public
spirit of the Finns that when a customer
gets a fill-up at the smorgasbord and then
tells the waiter that he isn’t hungry he is
usually found to be a foreigner. Helsing-
fors did not. give me the impression of being
over-governed under the Czarist domination.
It seemed to be in much the same state as
Ireland just before the withdrawal of the
English. In order to keep the Finns con-
tented they were granted rights and liber-
ties which the Russian in Russia proper
was hanged merely for demanding. Self-
determination doesn’t necessarily imply de-
termination to live happily together.
Jjc »!» »!*
“Knightsbridge”: Walter Gilbey, distiller
and horsebreeder, has been fulminating about
the costumes nowadays affected by riders ir.
Rotten-row, which once set the world the
fashion in turn-out of horse and rider.
Gilbey is particularly severe on the hatless,
while he shudders over others who wear
pullovers and even plus-fours and stockings!
The “Tailor and Cutter,” echoing the jere-
miad, refers approvingly to the costume of
King George in the Row, describing his as
“a sartorial model.” H.M. wears, it appears,
“a bowler hat, riding jacket and breeches,
and suitable accessories,” which merely
shows how fashions change. Writer can
recall the time when the only correct wear
for the Row was the frock coat, tall silk hat,
and trousers strapped under the boot. Ex-
cept, perhaps, in the very early morning
such a costume as King George’s would have
been regarded as revolutionary.
$ * $ *
“Pontifex”: Some cities have acquired
notable bridges at a much cheaper figure
than Sydney, owing to the far-sighted bene-
volence of citizens long dead. The Clifton
Suspension Bridge over the Bristol Avon,
which came into being nearly 70 years ago,
was long counted one of the wonders of the
age; it has a span of over 700 feet. The
crude idea really had its genesis in the brain
of a sturdy Bristolian who died in 1753,
leaving £lOOO in his will to accumulate for
the erection of a bridge. How much £lOOO.
judiciously invested, would become in 110
years any statistician can calculate, but the
Suspension Bridge never got the full benefit
of the enterprise, because the first attempt
was an expensive failure. Now if only some
of the rude forefathers of Sydney, or even
some of the wealthy citizens of a century
ago, when the project first began to be talked
of, had followed the practical course of the
Bristol citizen and thrown a bit into the
hat for posterity, what a difference it would
have made!
He * $ *
“Jeames”: The British Court is more
respectable than any in history, not except-
ing that of the late Victoria, but, as General
Booth said, after meeting George V., it is
“not profound.” The King is an inveterate
stamp-collector, the Queen knits. The wits
of the nation have been making merry on
the subject of the virtuous vacuity of Buck-
ingham Palace for years. Max Beerbohm’s
latest takes the form of an argument between
a male and female courtier:—
She : Slow pass the hours, all passing slow;
My doom is worse than anything
Conceived by Edgar Allen Poe.
The Queen is duller than the King.
He : Lady, your wits are wandering;
You babble what you cannot mean.
Remember, to your heartening,
The King is duller than the Queen.
She : No, most emphatically, No.
, To one firm-rooted fact I cling,
In my now chronic vertigo.
The Queen is duller than the King.
And so it goes on to the grim climax: —
She (firmly ) : The Queen is duller than the King.
He : Death, then, for you can have no sting.
{Stabs her and, as she fall s dead, produces phial
from pocket.)
Nevertheless, sweet friend strychnine,
The King is duller than the Queen.
( Drinks, and dies.)
It was Max who put the unspoken thoughts
of Mayfair into a cartoon after the death
of Edward VII. It showed the rich Hebrews
of the period wondering what was going to
happen to them. No Beerbohm has been
persona grata at Court since.
:J: * * •-!:
“Kerys”: It was the crowded hour of
noon in a M.L. city, when a tall woman,
sauntering down a busy street, gave a wild
shriek and began furiously casting her gar-
ments to the winds. She.had flung her hat
into the gutter and her coat on the pave-
ment and was endeavoring to wrench her
skirt over her head when kindly hands
hustled her into a near-by shop. A crowd
collected, a policeman arrived, and the local
ambulance, chancing along, was hailed and
asked to wait in anticipation of a patient.
Excitement was at fever heat when a press-
man came out and said briefly, “It’s all right.
A Maori-bug,” whereupon the mob, murmur-
ing sympathetically, melted away. Nobody
who suspects himself of being temporary
host to a Maori-bug hesitates an instant in
disrobing and evicting the intruder. The
bug is a large harmless specimen, with a
shiny black back, about the size of a shilling,
and a truly devastating smell. When rudely
disturbed, he permeates the atmosphere with
this odor, and everybody moves promptly on.
I have known one ruin a picnic luncheon,
and another hold up a public meeting. No
housewife willingly kills one inside. She
carefully scoops it up and gives it instant
freedom, which is doubtless what protective
Nature intended when she equipped the
creature so effectually.
CRASH!
BOSS: “Are you doing anything special on Sunday evening, Miss Smith?”
MISS SMITH (hopefully): “No, not a thing!”
BOSS: “Good, Then I can expect you to be right up to time on Monday morning."
“Wan Lee”: Curious that the tribute to
Chinese honesty (B. 2/3/’32) should have
been emphasised only last week in Sydney.
It might have hardly seemed corroboration
when a Confucian was convicted at the
Central Police Court for shoplifting a string
of beads, but it produced the admission that
the police had never known a similar case,
and one shop detective of long experience
said that he would never bother watching
a Chinese customer. Possibly the opportunity
for a little sleight-of-hand was the temp-
tation that led to the offender’s undoing,
for the beads were valued at only a shilling.
Bret Harte, who manfully fought the Cali-
fornian prejudice against the Chinese when
it was at its height, somewhere pictures a
struggling Chinese washerman who-, after
pressing a 10-dollar piece on a liard-up white
woman,, and inventing a lie to cloak his good
deed, nevertheless 'couldn’t refrain from
decoying a scarf that lay in the hall up his
wide -sleeves before he left the premises. If
the Chow did take to shoplifting it is
probable that he would be able to show the
Caucasian a whole lot of points.
s * * =i=
“Bildad”: Should the Irish Free State
return a republican majority to office under
the leadership of De Valera, the half-Spanish
gentleman from New York,
and should the British Govern-
ment say that it may go re-
pubbing as much as it pleases
so long as Catholic Ireland
doesn’t start a religious war
with Protestant Ireland, it is
interesting to wonder what
kind of republic it will be.
Europe has enjoyed a fair
number of republics, and of
these Venice, now part of
Italy, had the best luck. It
had "a Parliament of one House
with no darned nonsense of
popular election about it, and
when it captured a President
it kept him for life, so there
was no rotten bother about re-
election till he and his term
expired. He and the term ex-
pired together. The head-
quarters of the republic were a
group of islands at the head of
the Adriatic Sea, but in its
brightest moments it spread
into the Holy Roman Empire,
the Greek Empire, the Turkish
Empire and empires in general.
It was about 1000 years old,
measuring from the beginning
of the first Doge or life Presi-
dent to the end of the last,
when its separate career ended,
and it had a casual century or
two of independence before
that. About the most remark-
able of the Doges died at the
ago of 95, being worn out with
campaigns in which he dis-
played wonderful foresight
although he was stone-blind. A
landmark which suggested the
beginning of decay was the sur-
render of Candia to the Turks
after 24 years’ siege. It is
hoped that the Irish republic
will do as well as this, but the
importing of a Doge from New
York may be a bad sign.
Venice never brought a Doge from that
Prohibition city.
“Ribemont”: The war in China has
strengthened a contempt for scientific pro-
phets which _ I acquired during the World
War. In spite of all the bloomers made by
vaticinators of all nations in the two years
that preceded the Armistice, I was begin-
ning to believe in the horrors of aerial war-
fare. The statement made by Major Nye,
the British gas authority, nearly 10
years ago, that in any future European
war Londoners Vould have to be supplied
with 7,000,000 gas masks, and taught indi-
vidually how to use them, struck me as
bunkum. But one had to listen to the
evidence given before the committee of the
inter-Parliamentary Union (Geneva) this
year. In the next war, said the scientists,
there would be pilotless bombers controlled
by wireless. They would be sent in waves
with bombs weighing a ton apiece. One
squadron would be capable of dropping more
bombs than fell on London during the. whole
war. , High explosive would be varied by
incendiary bombs, filled with thermite, which
is inextinguishable : also, by bombs contain-
ing vesicant dew, which kills a man in a
few seconds if a drop touches his bare flesh.
The day of the infantryman, it was agreed,
was over. And here, in China, we find
exactly the same war as the Diggers knew
nearly 20 years ago. Trenches, barbed wire,
barrages, artillery duels, machine-gun fire
and bayonet charges—all get attention in
the cables. And not a word to suggest that
bombing from the air plays a bigger part
in the line or behind it than it did at the
end of ’18!
* * * *
“T.P.”: Whence comes this craze for
mementoes of bloodthirsty ruffians? Among
relics collected for the proposed historical
museum at Canberra is a pair of Welling-
ton boots worn by Morgan, the bushranger,
when he was shot at Peechelba station. In
the Glenrowan country (Vic.) leaves and
CONGRATULATIONS.
“Congratulations, my dear! I’m told you’ve landed a
man at last.”
“Yes, but don’t worry, darling. I threw several back into
the water.”
grass, spattered with the blood of Ned Kelly,
are treasured by the families of the original
collectors, and at Windsor concrete used
by Deeming may be obtained. Forty years
ago Old Jack, the ex-convict guide at Port
Arthur, offered me for 17s. 6d. a pair of
181 b. leg-irons worn by “my old mate Rufus
Dawes.” As I didn’t bite, they may perhaps
yet grace the “historical museum.”
TURNED DOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Principally on the score of woman’s physical
inferiority, a motion proposing the admittance of
women to the pulpit was overwhelmingly rejected
by the Methodist Conference at Melbourne.”
Sweet, you may sit among the legislators
And demonstrate yourself, beyond demur,
Inferior to no masculine debaters;
Aye, you may even be a Minister,
One of the Crown’s, but not the sort of
pastor
Whose mdticr is tlieologic speech.
One right’s denied you yet by Man the
Master—
He will not let you preach.
Both law and medicine you’re free to prac-
tise,
From hustings and from rostrums to be
heard.
Anomalous it seems, but still a fact is,
You’re not permitted to expound the
Word.
Most other disabilities they’ve shifted.
There’s little else that’s not accorded you.
I wonder will I live to see it lifted,
The old Pauline taboo.
Sweet, you may fly earth’s wide expanses
over
These spacious times, ’mid generous
acclaims ;
May swim the English Channel, Calais-
Dover;
Make hist’ry, too, at the Olympic Games.
But have you the physique, the sheer endur-
ance
Sermons to weave and homilies to plait?
These clerics, you’ll observe, have no assur-
ance,
No guarantee of that.
Well, here’s another hurdle and the last, it
Would almost seem, your onw T ard course
besets.
The trouble is you cannot scramble past it
By methods that appealed to suffragettes.
’Twill only be by feminine beseeching
Your progress to the pulpit they’ll allow.
And, faitiy I rather doubt you’re set on
preaching—•
From pulpits, anyhow.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


The Australian Art Exhibition
-THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
MnniMHinMtMUUMMMMMH mMlUMmllllMltmiimj
Bulletin Buildings
252 Georqe Street, i
syd n e v
(®J y
£J
The Macleod Gallery will be opened
during Bridge Celebration Week, and
will be one of its big attractions.
The Gallery, which is on the sixth floor of the new Bulletin Buildings, is 150 feet long, with magnificent natural lighting, and
largest private gallery in Australia. .
Artists and collectors who have works for sale are invited to communicate with the Director, Mr. G. V. F. Mann, tor
Director of the National Art Gallery of N. S. Wales.
Conditions and other particulars jrom the Director, Macleod Gallery, Box 252188, G 8.0., Sydney.
is the
years
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The Chaffey brothers, George and Wil-
liam, loomed large in the early history or
irrigation in Australia. Alfred Deakin, trav-
elling as a Royal Commissioner on water-
supply, met them in California in 1881, and
induced them to come to Australia in the
following year. George Chaffc'y selected
Mildura, on the Murray, as a suitable spot
for operations; William joined him later
and they arranged with the Vic. govern-
ment for the gradual settlement of 250,000
acres, the control of which eventually passed
to the Mildura Irrigation Trust. George
Chaffey, who returned to America, died last
week at Los Angeles at 86.
Just-dead C. G. Heydon (N.S.W.) was
the first Judge to lay down the doctrine ot
the basic wage ; that was in 1905. In 1907
Higgins, J., arrived with his “Harvester
judgment, definitely adopting the principle.
Few men have lived busier or more useful
lives than Alfred Meeks, who died in Sydney
at the week-end aged 82 years, just half of
them spent in Sydney as senior partner ot
Gibbs, Bright and Co. His interests were
extraordinarily varied: for 43 years he was
a director of the A.M.P. and for 26 years
past its chairman; he was a Protectionist
when Protection was not popular in N. S.
Wales; he was an ardent Federalist; he was
chairman of Lysaght’s and other industrial
cos.; he was for years president of the
Y.M.C.A. and a diligent worker for the
City Mission; b e was f° r 32 years an
M.L.C., and did the job right to the end; he
worked for the bush-nursing body and helped
it with his money (he never allowed himself
to become a rich man) ; he supported musi-
cal bodies and especially singing clubs and
choirs. But nothing attracted him like the
A.M.P.; his work ' there was part of his
religious duty, and he attended the office
almost daily until a week or so before he
died.
Charles Gilbert Heydon, who passed out
at his Potts Point home on Sunday ,_ aged
86, filled with credit a variety of positions,
legal, political and judicial, between the
time when he was called to the Bar at 30
(he had years of banking experience before
that) and when he retired at 68 under the
Judges Age Limit Act. He was 50 when
he took silk, and had been several times an
acting-Supreme Court Judge. He was an
M.LhC. for seven years and Attorney-General
in the Dibbs Ministry, succeeding Edmund
Barton in 1893. At 55 he was appointed a
District Court Judge; at 60 he became pre-
Late Justice HEYDON.
sident of the Arbitration Court, and at 65
sole Judge of the Industrial Court. Long
before that he had taken the main part m
consolidating the statute law of N. S. Wales.
He was a Fellow of St. John’s College,
Sydney Uni., before he began his life’s work
in the law.
Michael Joseph Wallis, of County Cork,
Ireland, a nephew of Archbishop Mannix,
was one of 20 admitted to practice by Vic.
Full Court last week.
W. J. Jungwirth, private sec. to the Vic.
Premier, who is accompanying Hogan to
Britain, is the retiring chief of the Kecha-
bite friendly society, which is sitting at
Rochester this week. The order has 3b,01d
members and £710,165 of accumulated funds
in Vic. Seemingly it has a taste for thrift,
organisation and business administration as
well as a distaste for alcohol.
John Henry Prowse, the Westraliau
M.H'.R. who, according to a Sydney paper,
is known to all
parties at Can-
berra as “Gloomy
Jack,” was born at
Adelong (N.S.W.)
a trifle over w
years ago. He was
an insurance man-
ager before he took
to pastoral ven-
tures and was
swept into Parlia-
ment on the C.P.
ticket; also he was
Mayor of Perth
and a pillar of the
temperance move-
ment there in the
pre - war years.
Prowse succeeded
John Forrest as
piember for the
Swan (now For-
rest) division after
the seat had been
held by a Laborite
returned soldier
(Corboy) for a
few months, and
presehts a striking
contrast to the
bluff and hearty
Bigjohn. Still his
persistent pes s i-
mism, like that of
his colleague Gre-
gory, is largely a
matter of policy;
as habitual ventila-
tors of Westralia’s
grievances any
other rOle but that
of martyrdom
would sit ill upon
“GLOOMY JACK”
PROWSE, M.H.R.
them. In his
lighter moments Prowse is no mean hand at
howls.
George Goddard, who takes over the
editorship of Sydney “World” in succession
to Monty Grover, is a North Queenslander
who first appeared on the Inky Way as a
junior reporter on the (Charters Towers
“Northern Miner.” In 1912 he joined the
staff of the “Sydney Morning Herald,” and
was doing Federal Parliamentary work for
that paper during 1914-15, when he trans-
ferred to the old Sydney “Daily Telegraph’
as Melbourne representative. After an inter-
lude at the war, on the Western Front, he
became foreign editor of the “Telegraph”
and later sub-editor. Then he transferred
t 0 the “Evening News,” occupying various
positions until he became _ editor in 1924.
During the visit of the Prince of Wales in
1920 he was appointed by the Federal Gov-
ernment to take charge of the newspaper
arrangements for the tour.
Dr. Roland Wilson, who leaves his Tas.
Uni. lectureships to enter the Commonwealth
Statistical services at Canberra, was Tas.
Rhodes scholar for 1925. Oxford and
Chicago gave him authority to use a string
of letters after his name before he brought
his American bride home to Tas. in 1930.
Statistics engaged his attention as early as
1925, when he gave professional assistance
to Lyons’s Advisory Committee on Tas.
Disabilities. If the brilliant State High
School (Devonport) product slips into
chief place when acting-statistician Giblin
goes back to his Ritchie professorship at
Melbourne University a few months hence,
he will be about the youngest Chief Statist
on record.
Coonamble (N.S.W.) has lost its oldest
inhabitant in George Thomas Moores, who
passed out at 95. As a young man he was
one of the best-known roughriders and
drovers in the West. He owned many
splendid station-bred horses, which attracted
Ben Hall, who occasionally lifted a couple.
Moores often described the bushranger as a
fine horseman and a cute judge of horseflesh.
The old man was a native of North Sydney
—his dad kept the first pub there —and
for years he had been looking forward to
seeing the Harbor Bridge opened.
Broome has lost a well-known figure in
the veteran Captain Harry Talboys. who had
made his home there since his retirement
from pearling activities. An Englishman,
bred to the sea, his first voyages to Australia
were made in the wool ships of the ’eighties;
later he was master successively of the Aus-
tralind and the Ivarrakatta, which plied
between Fremantle and Singapore. Some 30
years ago he turned to pearling, and he had
a fine collection of sea-treasures and stories.
It was Talboys who once, opening shell upon
his own lugger, came on a stone which looked
like a valuable find; he walked to the side to
hide his treasure from the inquisitive eyes
of the colored men, when it slipped through
his fingers and disappeared through the
scuppers. A lifebuoy was flung overboard
to mark the spot, a Jap diver hurriedly
brought up from below and as hurriedly
instructed, and, miraculous as it seems, the
pear] was retrieved, a gleaming speck in the
clear water. It fetched £l6OO in London.
Prospector Jack Brooks, found dead on
some rocks near Launceston, was with his
dad, Benjamin Brooks, when the first dis-
covery of tin was made on the north-east
coast of Tasmania in 1874. Jack followed
mining all his life; among his finds were
the Jubilee coalmine, near St. Mary’s, be-
sides silver, copper and gold shows. But it
was mostly others who profited from his
discoveries. He was 77 when the call came.
Professor Perkins, the S. Aus. Director
of Agriculture, is himself an ex-principal
of Roseworthy College, and was one of the
witnesses called at the Commission to inves-
tigate the recent strike. The professor’s
specialty is wheat-breeding and viticulture,
but he showed that such matters had not
entirely engrossed his attention when, in
reply to a question as to whether he had
ever heard of drunkenness at Bosewortliy,
he drily replied that he never knew an insti-
tution of that kind where the most rigorous
surveillance would prevent a student smug-
gling in a bottle of beer occasionally, and
that he wouldn’t regard it as a deadly sin.
Perkins, who was born in Egypt and edu-
cated at Carthage (among other places), has
held Government jobs in S. Aus. for the
past 40 years.
The newest president of that over-politi-
cised organisation the N.S.W. Clerks’ Union
is Jack Cornell, who has just been elected
by a substantial majority. Carnell was
treasurer of the R.S.L. when it was first
formed. He died by proxy at the Landing;
it was his father who really was killed there.
An ex-cavalry officer, well over military age,
Captain Carjjell was determined to be in the
war; failing to secure a commission, he en-
listed as a private, using his son’s birth
certificate. The son started his war service.
with the expeditionary force to New Guinea.
George Shirtcliffe, who has been appointed
chairman of the M.L. Economy Commission,
which is to advise George Forbes and his
fellow-Ministers how to cut large chunks of
departmental expenditure, is a business man.
Born in England, he was educated at Christ’s
College, Christchurch, where he was account-
ant to the National Mortgage and Agency
Co. in the late ’seventies. In 1882 he be-
came manager of the Canterbury Farmers’
Co-op. Co. of Timaru, and in 1890 joined
A. S. Paterson and Co. as managing partner.
He has a long record of service on local
bodies in Wellington, has assisted the Gov-
GEORGE SHIRTCLIFFE, ML. Economy
Commissioner.
ernment in various advisory capacities _ for
many years, and, as becomes an old Christ’s
College boy, is a staunch Anglican and a
great figure at synods. His knowledge of
farming finance and his long study of M.L.
taxation problems fit him to advise a Minis-
try which, more than any other that has
ruled the Shivery Isles, is convinced that
the farmer is the backbone of the country.
The distinguished beard of Edward Unwin,
jun., was thrust into many Melbourne
bookshops recently. Unwin, who is 61, is
one of England’s leading printers and
belongs to a family eminent in publishing
circles. His youngest brother is Stanley
Unwin and an uncle was Fisher Unwin,
of the famous book firm. His father, a
youngster of 91, is still in business.
Adam Kemball Dein, the new M.H.R. for
Lang, was a teacher at the Dulwich
Hill Public School, who made a hpst
of friends in the district. He bosses
one of the local progress associations, plays
A K. DEIN, new M.H.R. for Lang
C N.S.W. ).
first-grade cricket for Marrickville and is a
better-than-average tennis-player. A native
of Orange, where he was born in 1889, he
left school at 13, and toiled on the Lucknow
goldfield and on a farm. At 18, as a result
of study at night-time, he became .a pupil
teacher.
Jack Percival, M.L.C., who was rushed
from his Clovelly home one midnight last
week in time to lick the Lang Government
on a clause of the Arbitration Bill, is an
Englishman who started his Australian career
as manager of the Bathurst “National Advo-
cate.” He married a Gartrell —a member of
the family that has been baking good bread
for Sydney, as well as Bathurst, for genera-
tions —and was making a success of his
paper when his appointment as a Labor
M.L.C. caused a coolness with one of the
directors. Shortly afterwards he got out
of journalism and moved to Sydney. Later,
like many another, he found Lang impossible
to stomach, and he now votes with the Oppo-
sition. He is small and cheery, and shares
with J. Macarthur Onslow (the legislator
who wears his hat in Parliament, after the
English model] the reputation of being the
nattiest dresser in the Council.
General Edward Higgins, supreme head of
the Salvation Army since the fading away
of the Booth dynasty, who is to visit Aus-
tralia about the middle of next month, has
worn the uniform for just 50 years. He
didn’t get into the Army as a down-and-
outer, via the penitent form. William Booth
decided in 1882 that he needed Higgins and
Higgins’s dad, both successful business men
in an English provincial town, and he got
them. From the jump Higgins, junior, was
marked for high office. For 10 years he
was chief secretary in the U.S.A., at first
under Commissioner Booth-Tucker and then
under Commander Evangeline Booth. He
travelled with William Booth on various
world tours and undertook special missions
to Canada, the Orient and almost every coun-
try in Europe. In wartime he was “British
Commissioner,” being in direct charge of
the evangelistic side of the Salvation Army s
work throughout the British Isles. Then
for 10 years he was chief-of-staff to General
Bramwell Booth. Business acumen combined
with religious zeal, a combination of quali-
ties found in most of the great churchmen
of history, provide the secret of Higgins’s
success. 'William Booth, who was similarly
equipped, had a keen eye for those dual
qualities in others.
W. W. Bird, who did much to stir the
grey matter in the Maori brain, retired
the other day. A schoolmaster who
was thoroughly at home in the native tongue
and had qualified as a first-grade Maori
interpreter, he filled many positions as
teacher, inspector and organiser of native
schools. His utilities extended to the Cook
Islands and Samoa; he drew up a scheme for
the natives’ education in the former in 1913
and for the latter in 1920.
One of the N.T.’s oldest and best citizens,
Patrick Michael Byrne, has passed on at
7G. He went to Darwin in the Gothenburg
(just missing the famous wreck) in 1873,
and was in the telegraph service for many
years, mainly at Charlotte Waters, where
he started a business later. Byrne was a
well-read man and a keen geologist, giving
Baldwin Spencer valuable help when the
Professor established the fact of glacier-
action at old Crown Point.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
r Dividends. To Re- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1920. .199,212 30,000 14 p.c. = 70,000 99,212 616,120
1921. .184,372 30,000 14 „ „ 70,000 84,372 700,492
1922. .205,243 30,000 15 „ „ 75,000 100,243 800,735
Transferred to Capital . . £250,000 550,735
1923. .159.479 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 39,479 590,214
1924. .142,315 30,000 124,, „ 93,760 18,565 608,779
1925. .133,005 30,000 124,, „ 93,750 9,255 618.034
1926. .198,008 30,00-0 16 ~,,120,000 48,008 666,042
1927. .153,881 30,000 14 „ ~105,000 18,881 684,923
1928. .133,801 30,000 10 „ „ 75,000 28,801 713,724
1929. .132,077 30,000 10 „ „ 75,000 27,077 740,801
1930. .103,969 30,000 8 „ „ 60,000 13,969 754,770
1931.. 70,643 30,000 5 „ „ 37,50-0 3,143 757,913
For the 20 years since the public became in-
terested, in 1911, the ords. have averaged 10.4
p.c., sweetened with £250,000 of bonus scrip,
and £757,913 had visibly accumulated to
protect and assist £1,250,000 of paid capital
(£500,000 of it is in 6 p.c. cum. prefs.) at
Dec. 31. It was all very largely the out-
come of war and early post-war activities
and the sale of surplus tonnage at the top
of the market.
Meanwhile increasing competition from
rail and motor transport checked the demand
for inter-State vessels, and the recent
general change in the trading outlook and
the sickness in the coal industry have left
the co. with cargo space in excess of require-
ments. To relieve the position two boats, the
Hebburn and Werribee, were sold last year;
freights went on shrinking, passenger traffic
dwindled, nothing was received from the
co.’s coal investments, returns for its other
securities were lighter, and, on the other
hand, taxation was heavier.
Thus, including additions to the insurance
fund (£309,948, up £2BO last year) there
was a slip of £33,326 on the year’s disclosed
net earnings, and three points were chipped
off the ord. div., reducing it to 5 p.c. That
is leaving out of the reckoning a net addi-
tion of £4068 to the reserve for “contingen-
cies, taxation, repairs, superannuation, etc.,”
raising it to £424,691 at Dec. 31—the aver-
age net addition to this fund over the last
six years has been £12,118. A substantial
portion of this lay-by is probably genuine
profit. Treating the lot as such, last year’s
net earnings were £74,712, which was enough,
after paying the pref. div., to show 5.4 p.c.
on the £750,000 of ord. capital as against
11.5, 13.7, 17.4, 18.6 and 24 p.c. hack to
1926.
Unable to find employment for all its funds
in the shipping and coal industries, the co.
had £1,426,114 (hook value) invested in
-Government and other securities at Dec. 31.
Here is the position so far as balance-sheet
figures disclose it: —
1924. 1930. 1931.
Ships, etc. .. £1,055,442 £1,345,769 £1,258,10-9
Cash . . . . 35,127 26,627 20,796
Book debts .. 159,817 118,067 70,629
Investments . . 1,283,256 1,293,350 1,426,114
Stores . . .. 54,441 39,556 38,264
Total assets .. £2,588,083 £2,823,369 £2,813,912
Less liabilities.. 311,052 352,975 347,558
Net assets . . £2,227,031 £2,470,394 £2,466,354
Last year’s net growth of £132,764 in invest-
ments was due to the sale of the two ships
already referred to, and release of funds
owing to lighter trading. Thus, on book
values, the co. is in a position to return the
whole of its pref. and half the ord. capital,
and at the same time retain the whole of its
shipping and coal interests and over half a
million of other investments besides.
The market, noting this, prices the pound
ords. at 275. or thereabouts as against 245.
a year ago. At 275. the return is 3.7 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis, or 7.3 p.c. should the
distribution be lifted to 10 p.c. To pay the
pref. div. and 10 p.c. to the ords., total funds
at Dec. 31, including the return for contin-
gencies, etc., need turn in only 4.5 p.c. With
the protection of the Navigation Act, earn-
ings from shipping should revive as condi-
tions become more settled. But the threat
of legislative interference with the dis-
organised N. S. Wales coal industry -obscures
the already blurred outlook there. The co.
controls the Hebburn and Metropolitan pits,
the latter on the southern field, and is inter-
ested in B. H. Prop. Collieries and the old
Abermain-Seaham, which is now linked with
the, ,T. and A. Brown and East Greta
interests.
The prefs., which are covered by net tan-
gibles with a book value of £4 17s. 3d., in-
cluding the provision for contingencies, etc.,
return 5.7 p.c. at 20s. lOd.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921 .. 9,842 3J p.c. = 9,733 109 199
1922 . . 41,700 10 „ „ 29,200 12,50-0 12,699
1923 .. 29,060 10 „ „ 29,201 12,548
Assets written down .. £146,002
1924 .. 59,976 30 p.c. = 43,801 16,175 28,723
1925 .. 32,991 20 „ „ 29,201 3,790 32,513
1926 .. 28,617 20 „ ~ 29,201 - 31,929
1927 .. 21,751 20 „ 29,201 24,479
1928 .. 18,546 13£ „ „ 19,467 .. 23,558
Transferred from tax reserve, £lOOO.. 24,558
Loss. Deficit.
1929 .. 101,680 Nil 77,122
1930 .. 35,570 Nil 112,692
Profit.
1931 .. 3,063 Nil 109,629
This co. has never had much luck. It lias
been in the squatting business, chiefly in
the s.-w. of Queensland, for over half a
century; list for the 23 years to the close
of accounts in 1923 divs. averaged only 4J
p.c., and that was largely a return of capi-
tal, half of which was written off (reducing
it to £146,002) to cover amortisation of
leases. Then a run of good seasons and
high prices brought some fat returns. Next,
Quantambone, near Brewarrina (N.S.W.),
with 76,736 sheep off-shears, was bought for
£275,000 about three and a half years ago;
shareholders put up the money. Imme-
diately drought gripped this and the Queens-
land properties, both of which were bare of
feed at the time; also the bottom dropped
out of the wool market. Thus a loss of
£101,680 was registered in 1929, followed by
another loss of £35,570 in 1930. Mean-
while the co. had gone to its bankers and
others for £151,689 in order to save the
breeding ewes, rams and young wethers.
Last year Nature was kind, more sheep
were. mustered, the clip was 1519 bales
heavier, and the average price per hale a
trifle better:—
, Sheep
On Books Wool Pro- Average
Shorn. Dec. 31. Bales, ceeds. per Bale.
1928.. 82,567 176,747 1887 £43,856 £23/4/10
1929.. 115,450 96,820 2534 38,627 15/4/10
1930.. 100,011 139,644 2298 25,300 11/0/2
1931.. 137,428 172,620 3817 44,081 11/10/11
Livestock sales were heavier, too. The spring
in gross earnings (£58,912) was £35,570;
working exes. (£18,006) were pulled back
£7292, and, relieved of special drought expen-
diture, the board was able to show a net
profit of £3063. The reduction in bank
charges has given the co. a little relief, but
better prices for wool and stock, and reduc-
tions in transport and other charges will be
needed before anything more than moderate
profits are likely to show up.
Dividend prospects have been pushed into
the background by the accumulated deficit
and the size of the overdraft, which was
reduced only £842 last year, leaving it at
£140,953 when the books closed. Here
is the position as the published figures show
it:—
1924. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital .. £146,002 £243,338 £243,338 £243,338
Liabilities .. 912 127,486 151,689 144,389
Stations, plant,
etc. .. 78,743 207,034 192,522 178,685
Sheep, cattle,
horses . . 45,230 83,410 87,150 97,897
Wool unsold.. 810 1,056 1,900 77
Cash, etc. .. 109,789 4,138 2,085 3,438
At the close of last accounts there were an
extra 32,976 sheep on the runs. Thus, in-
cluding livestock, the excess of liabilities
over more or less liquids (£42,977) was
£17,577 lighter than at the previous balance.
The co.’s Queensland leases have been ex-
tended for 10 years from Dec. 31. 1934, sub-
ject to resumption in 1939 ; the N. S. Wales
leases fall in in 1943.
At the moment seasonal prospects are the
brightest thing in the co.’s outlook. The
30s. paid shares, which are covered by net
tangibles with a book value of 16s. 5d., all
in leases, etc., have not an active market.
Pelaco, Ltd. (Melb.)
c -Dividends s
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Written
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. 15 p.c. Off. Reserves.
Sj £,£,£>£,£>
1920.. 29,455 2082 3656 8,766 2165 12,283
Loss. Deficit.
1921.. 14,473 2082 4500 Nil 8,772
Profit. 10 p.c.
1922.. 20,518 2082 4500 10,724 5,560
1923.. 24,723 2082 4500 14,908 2,327
Reserves.
1924.. 30,551 2082 4500 16,500 5,142
8 p.c.
1925.. 25,367 2082 4500 13,200 10,727
1926.. 21,692 2082 4500 13,200 12,637
4 p.c.
1927.. 15,070 2082 4500 6,600 14,525
1928.. 6,966 2082 4500 Nil 14,909
5 p.c.
1929.. 21,031 2082 4500 8,250 21,108
Loss.
1930.. 11,334 1041* 2250* Nil 6,483
Deficit.
1931.. 38,550 Nil Nil Nil 32,067
*Half-year’s div.
This co., which manufactures shirts, collars
and other men’s wear, took over the old
Pearson-Law business in 1911. It did well
for a while, but was hit severely by the
post-war slump in 1921. Later competition
sharpened, and the abolition of piecework
by the Arbitration Court affected the 1928
figures; but the system was reintroduced
and things began to look up again. Mean-
while, a vigorous sales offensive had wid-
ened the connections, and the co. had gone
heavily into debt to finance the bigger
trading.
Then slump caught the co. with heavy
stocks and substantial hook debts, and
trouble followed, of course. To lighten out-
side liabilities stocks have had to be hur-
riedly worked down on a falling market, and
debtors’ balances have been troublesome. A
loss of £11,334 showed up in 1930. Last
year exchange and tariff adjustments aggra-
vated the difficulties —the co. imports a lot
of its raw materials —and retailers adopted
a hand-to-mouth policy, leaving the co.,
which does its own warehousing, to shoulder
most of the risks in this respect. Thus after
reducing the book value of stocks by £79,387,
there was a slip of £49,237 in the year’s gross
profit (£21,650). Exes. (£60,200, including
provision for bad debts) were £22,021
lighter, leaving the net loss on the year’s
trading at £38,550. Excluding a reserve of
£8728 against, exchange, etc., on goods afloat,
that left £32,067 of the capital unrepre-
sented by tangibles at Dec. 31.
The following table shows how the board
has handled its financial problems over the
last four years :
1927. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital . . £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities . . 237,849 163,756 147,355 85,260
Premises .. 116,929 109,343 109,378 109,378
Plant, etc. .. 77,328 67,582 64,400 60,413
Book debts .. 124,692 103,537 75,090 65,221
Stock.. .. 182,202 165,125 15-0,378 70,991
Cash, etc. .. 3,250 2,253 720 654
Last year’s reduction of £79,387 in the
stocks item and of £9569 in debtors’ balances
enabled the hoard to knock £60.305 off the
overdraft, leaving it at £38,844, and chip
£1790 off the amount coming to sundry
creditors. The more or less liquid surplus
(£51.606, including stocks) fell away by
£27,227; that excludes the provision for
exchange and £9872 of accrued pref. divs.
Since the close of accounts in 1927 £152,589
has been knocked off the outside debt. To
do this stocks were reduced by £111.211,
and debtors’ balances, cash, etc., ’by £62,667.
On fixed assets £24,466 more was written
off than was spent.
With the debt substantially reduced, a
little relief in exchange, prices steadier and
tradq a trifle improved, the co.’s prospects
look better. Still, taxation is onerous, and
overhead has become stubborn ; results will
largely depend upon the extent to which
the plant can be kept employed, and that
will mainly depend upon the state of trade
and credit.
There are 29,736 A and 50,000 B prefs.
carrying a cumulative 7 p.c. and 9 p.c.
respectively. They rank in the order stated
for capital and dividends. The net tangible
backing is £7 15s. for the A shares, £6 13s.
2d. for the B’s and Bs. for the 10s. ords.
The A’s are on offer at par and the ords.
at ss.
J. C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921 . . 8585 10 p.c. = 7930 655 12,774
1922 . . 8465 10 „ „ 7930 534 13,309
1923 .. 8117 10 7930 187 13,496
1924 .. 8744 10 „ „ 7930 814 14,310
1925 .. 8830 10 7930 900 15,210
1926 .. 8790 10 „ ~ 7930 860 16,070
1927 .. 9131 10 „ „ 7930 1201 17,271
1928 . . 9730 10 „ „ 7930 1800 19,071
1929 .. 8540 10 „ „ 7930 610 19,681
1930 . . 6032 74 „ „ 5947 85 19,766
1931 .. 1484 64 „ „ 4758 16,492
For 14 years, including-the slump in 1921,
a steady 10 p.c. was paid. Meanwhile the
co. had built up a substantial export trade
with Asia in the belting and leather pro-
ducts it manufactures. Despite the disturbed
conditions in China and India, it has been
able to maintain its overseas connections:
and the spring in exchange helped. Also a
branch was opened in Melbourne last year
with “satisfactory results.” Nevertheless
the co. has been unable to keep its plant
fully employed, and there has been a steady
recession of prices in both its wholesale and
retail markets. After taking stocks at £3836
below the 1930 figure, last year’s net result
was £4548 lighter at 1.8 p.c. on capital as
against 7.6, 10.7, 12.2 and 11.5 p.c. back to
1927. But times are hard, and since there
was nothing uneasy about the finances
reserves were tapped for £3274 to pay a 6
p.c. div.
Here are balance-sheet figures;—
1925. 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Capital ~ £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300 £79,300
Liabilities 32,854 30,723 27,459 31,141 30,765
Freeholds. 50,576 50,881 50,881 60,881 50,881
Plant, eta 7,994 9,450 8,230 7,360 7,677
Stocks .. 50,639 60,925 46,103 51,209 47,373
Book debts 21,965 21,732 24,150 21,762 21,744
Cash, etc. 1,499 1,315 2,111 2,840 2,259
When the books closed the excess of more
or less liquids over liabilities, was £4059
lighter at £40,611. Plant, a moderate item,
is reported in good order.
The market prices the pound shares, which
are covered by 225. 4d. in net tangibles, at
15s. 6d. At that figure the return is 7.8
p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
D. Mitchell and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Net Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 19,785 9 p.c. = 17,250 2535 35,355
1921.. 6,206 64 „ „ 14.626 26,936
1922.. 16,418 7 „ „ 15,750 668 27,604
1923.. 12,478 7 „ „ 15,750 24,332
1924.. 21,725 74 „ „ 16,876 4850 29,182
1925.. 13,882 7 „ „ 15,750 27,314
1926.. 10,711 7 „ „ 15,750 22,275
1927.. 11,733 7 „ „ 15,750 18,258
1928.. 8,030 5 „ „ 11,250' 15,038
1929.. 3,082 2J ~ „ 5,625 12,496
Deficit.
Provision for doubtful debts, £10,226 ) Rl) ,
Provision for contingencies, £69,070 j oo.ojj.
Loss.
1930.. 8,199 Nil 75,000
1931*. 30,021 Nil 75,000
*Year’s loss debited to contingency reserve.
This old-established drygoods wholesaler,
much of whose funds are used in carrying
stocks for clients, has strong connection
in the country. The losses for the last two
years are due mainly to bad debts; the
plight of wheat and other farmers has made
it impossible for the small storekeeper to
meet the wholesalers’ bill in full. More-
over, the demand for drygoods has been
largely restricted to the cheaper lines, which
carry margins too narrow to support costs,
including the cost of distribution, on their
present basis.
During the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts, gross profits (£60,462) fell away
£38,579, making the slip £40,981 over the
last two years. Exes. (£90,432, including
provision for bad debts) were £3243 heavier,
leaving the balance £30,021 on the wrong
side of the ledger. This was made up of
£8542 loss on trading, £17,771 struck off for
had debts and £3708 loss on maintenance
of the Clarence- and Kent-street properties.
These were vacated early in the term (they
will he sold when a buyer can he found)
and operations concentrated at the Forbes-
and Burraphore-street premises in order
to reduce overhead. Last year’s loss lowered
the £69,070 set aside for contingencies in
1930 to £39,049 at Dec. ’3l, and by the time
things settle down bad debts, etc., are ex-
pected to gobble most of the £39,049. Leav-
ing this out of the reckoning, the net book
value of the assets at Dec. 31 was £75,000
(= 6s. Bd. per share) short of paid capital,
and a slash is to be made as soon as the
co. re-establishes itself on a profit-earning
basis.
The financial position slipped, of course:—
1920. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital.. £225,000 £225,000'£225,0>00 £225,000
Liabilities .. 145,136 171,109 136,826 139,141
Properties and
plant .. 24,435 53,026 52,785 53,130
Stock.. .. 128,350 109,094 78,175 51 777
Book debts, etc. 255,186 236,959 214,757 212 433
Cash, etc. .. 8,770 9,525 10,178 10,’851
Thus, including stocks and book debts, etc.
—the etcetera is an unspecified holding in
Mitchell’s Factories, Ltd.—the more or less
liquid surplus (£135,921) was £30,363
lighter than at the previous balance. Im-
provement is reported in turnover. But the
position will look a lot better when the spare
properties are sold and the debt reduced.
The business was founded in the sixties
of last century by David Mitchell with
money he had made storekeeping at Ipswich
(Q.). An extensive importing trade was
developed, hut the first Commonwealth tariff
gave the co. new opportunities, and it put
in plant to manufacture and pack foodstuffs.
The public became interested in 1913. For
the decade to the close of accounts in 1929
divs. averaged 6.5 p.c., and reserves tapped
for £21,324 to pay them.
On the market 3s. is offered for ords., now
paid to 20s.
New England Producers’ Co.
The full title is the New England, North
and North West Producers’ Co., Ltd. The
co. came on to the market early in 1928.
offering 300,000 £1 shares. The idea was
to plunge into the pastoral finance and
agency business, and to establish wool sales
on a large scale on a semi co-operative basis
at Newcastle. But the scheme failed to
catch on. Only £58,726 of share capital
had been gathered at June 30 last, and
trading results have been disastrous: —
June, 1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
Sales .. .. £1,270 £8,512 £15,190 £14,060
Net loss .. .. 6,169 13,504 15,711 13,045
Deficit .. .. 17,539 31,767 47,478 60,523
Thus the whole of the shareholders’ money
and £1797 of borrowed funds beside had
been swallowed by trading loss (£48,429)
flotation exes. (£7606) and goodwill (£4488)
at June 30 last. Sales began in November,
1928, but the quantity of wool since sold
has not been mentioned; quick clearance at
prices well up to the average for type aa*e
claimed. The National Council of Wool
Selling Brokers has refused to allot selling
days at Newcastle. Early in the piece the
co. paid £4574 for the goodwill for R. A.
Elkin and Son., fat-stock salesmen. Sales
in this section of the business have been
56,244, 1929; 105,217, 1930; 144,372, 1931.
When the books last closed the bank owned
the business, including the freehold and
plant. Look at these figures:—
IQOQ IQQfI IQQI
Paid capital .. .. £34,660 £54,251 £68,726
Overdraft 25,141 32,798 34,672
Sundry creditors .. .. 5,793 3,012 3,002
Freehold and plant .. 19,980 20,080 19,072
Shares other cos... .. 2,000
Advances, etc. . . . . 12,060 21,605 18,947
Cash, etc 1,787 998 859
Shares in other cos. are presumably in
Nenco Finance, formed in 1930 to raise
money to lend to the New England Co.’s
clients. An effort to open up trade with
China has been unsuccessful. At June 30,
1930, 89,770 shares had been issued; assum-
ing that none have been forfeited since, there
was £31,034 at call when the books last
closed. But unless the drift can be quickly
stopped, the uncalled capital, or some of
it, may presently be required.
Peeks, Ltd. (Adelaide)
Nomi-
i Dividends \To Re- nal Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £. £
1928.. 4000 8 p.c. 8 p.c. = 2849 1151 1961
1929.. 192 8 „ Nil t= 1591 662
1930.. 2837 8 „ Nil = 2063 774 1326
1931.. 1774 4 „ Nil = 1141 633 1959
This little Adelaide tailoring and mercery
business is another concern which has ham-
strung itself by plunging into debt to finance
property investments, planned on the basis
of conditions as they were a few years ago.
Thus it has been a struggle to keep up pay-
ments to the prefs., which had to be con-
tent with half a meal last year.
Attracted by the rise in values and ren-
tals, the board decided to build the co. a new
home, with plenty of letting space, in North-
terrace. An issue of £32,500 7 p.C. bonds
was arranged, but the failure of the under-
writers necessitated other arrangements.
Since the close of accounts in 1928 share-
holders have put up £14,898 of 8 p.c. pref.
money, making paid capital £51,543 in 29,720
prefs. and 22,650 ords. at June 30 last,
£45,000 has been raised on mortgage, and
£18,814 added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors. The £63,814 thus got in
has been invested mainly in premises and
book debts:—
1928. 1980. 1931.
Paid capital .. •• £36,645 £51,085 £51,543
Mortgage . . . . 45,000 45,000
Sundry creditors . . 14,033 28,280 82,847
Freehold, plant, etc... 19,242 67,666 63,013
Shares in other cos... 26 11,197 11,111
Stocks . . ■ • 4,612 7,807 8,369
Book debts .. ■ • 27,549 89,683 42,166
Cash, etc. . . • • 24 1,439 2,499
Last year £9561 was added to the floating
debt, £5347 to the book value of fixed assets
and £2583 to debtors’ balances, which are
not the assets they were a few years ago.
The financial position slipped £5452, raising
the excess of liabilities over more or less
liquids, excluding shares in other cos., to
£13,712 when the books closed; but the
floating debt appeared to be well covered.
Still, there was 31s. 6d. of outside money
at risk in the business for every £1 of tan-
gible assets belonging to shareholders.
During the last term trading resulted in
a profit of £1219 for the first half and a
loss of £3618 for the second half. Rents,
originally expected to turn in £4500.
amounted to £2657, leaving £258 net, to
which £1516 was added from an undisclosed
property reserve, making the £1774 shown
in the accounts. The £1959 of nominal
reserves was subject to £4201 of goodwill,
etc. Interest reduction legislation will give
the co. a little relief, and efforts are being
made to get controllable exes, back and
liven turnover; nevertheless, it looks like a
long and difficult struggle, and a lean time
for the ords.
The 8 p.c. cum. prefs., which are covered
by net tangibles with a book value of 335.
Bd., have not an active market. The ords.
are not listed.
Edwards, Dunlop and Co.
This old-established importer of paper
and printers’ requisites proposes t 0 reduce
paid capital from £604,230 to £483,384
by returning the difference to shareholders
out of funds now invested outside the busi-
ness, thus trimming its sails to the altered
trade winds. The prefs. —86,509 of them, 5 p.c.
cumulative —which before the announce-
ment sold at 16s. 9d. in the market, are
to be paid in full, and 4s. per share is to
be returned to the ords., reducing them to
16s. each. This scrip is then to be exchanged
for new fully-paid £1 ords. in the proportion
of five for four. Fractional certificates with
a face value of 16s. will be handed out for
each old share in odd lots. On surrender of
five of these certificates four new fully-paid
ords. will be issued. Any divs. declared in
(Continued on page 16.)


□
3
r^y.yj
II
w
<r>
nr
<7
<7
&
Q
THREE THREES
are NINE for
Slocpenjce
Indecision may rage when three young
men meet three blondes and three brun-
ettes, but never when anyone meets
Three-Threes. It’s love at first puff, with
everything absolutely perfect . . . that
Ardath quality, that cork-and-plain tip
choice, and that famous Three-Threes
price!
e Allure to the right of them,
allure to the left of them,
into the -valley of breath-
less flirtation, into the jaws
of matrimony perhaps,
strode the six maidens. Or
three of them.
(aApologies to Lord Tennyson).
9 6-
SIME EXPRtjS
STSre(XPHESS
333
CORK TIPPED
OR PLAI N
ft*i
301 b 6
184, I'* 274,1%
Also Flat 50s, Flat 100 s,
and Round Air-right 50s.


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Colljson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUB STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
Ca- m
Happy, care-free now, yet he may
desert this lovely bride of his!
HAT a suggestion! Desert her
who i s the joy of his life?
Never!
“But wait, young man!’’ the
family friend will say. “What of the
future? What provision have you
made for your wife in the event of
your death? How would she fare if
you were to be knocked down by a car?
If you were to become ill, and sud-
denly, despite your present strength,
be taken, how would she fare ? Would
you leave her provided for, or would
you desert her to face the world
alone?”
It is never too early for a young
couple to face this question of what
might happen. A young couple have a
right to be care-free, and the best way
to ensure freedom from anxiety is for
the husband to assure his life with the
A.M.P.
/
■‘j’
\
S rUfk
Wt
TO
W%
&
h
$
A man in good health, aged 25, can have an
A.M.P. whole-life policy for £5OO for a quarterly
premium of £2/14/7 —a shade over four shillings a
week. That £5OO will grow with bonuses, and, as his
earnings grow, he can take out another £5OO, and
another, until he is adequately “covered,” and wins
peace of mind on this all-important question.
Complete this Coupon and send it to the nearest
A.M.P. office without letting another day go by.
USE THIS COUPON
To the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I should like the peace of mind you write
about. Send me suggestions. I am
years of age.
Ca7/vTp>
respect of the half-year to April 30 next
will be on capital as it now stands. After
April 30 5 p.c. will be paid on the amount
of capital to be returned until the actual
date of distribution.
On the market the- ords. are priced at 21s.
At that figure the equivalent value of the
fractional certificates is 175., and of the new
fully-paid ords. 21s. 3d. The return at 21s.
3d. would be 7.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
To pay an 8 p.c. div. capital (£483,384) and
reserves (£269,509 at April 30, 1931) com-
bined will need to net at least 5.2 p.c. Since
the public became interested in 1915 E., D.
and Co. was a steady 10 p.c. proposition
until 1931, when the div. dropped to 5f
p.c. But with the recent death of a number
of Sydney and country newspapers, the great
shrinkage in the size of the others, and con-
traction in the demand for printers’ machin-
ery and other requisites, trading promises
to be on a more restricted basis.
At the close of last accounts sundry credi-
tors, including provision for taxation, figured
at £45.590 ; cash and investments, £392,422 ;
book debts, £356,612; stocks, £167,859; free-
holds, £101,319.
The directors of Robert Reid and Co.
have withdrawn the present proposals for
reconstruction of the capital pending recon-
sideration of “certain aspects of the scheme.”
Meanwhile pref. shareholders in Sydney and
Melbourne have formed committees to watch
their interests.
❖ $ ❖
Some of the Barrier cos. are keeping a
weather eye upon the Coley process for the
direct manufacture of zinc oxide pigment
and spelter from low-grade zinc ores. The
process is in operation on a commercial
scale at Tunis, Algeria. Here ore contain-
ing 10 p.c. zinc is finely crushed, dried and
fed _into oil-fired rotary kilns heated
to 950 deg. At this temperature white zinc
oxide containing 62 p.c. zinc is fumed off
and collected in cyclones, the recovery being
95 p.c. of the zinc in the ore. The cost of
treatment is given as 10s. per ton, which is
about the cost of treating zinc ore by flota-
tion to give the intermediate zinc concen-
trate, which requires further treatment.
* . * * $
Circumstances have caused Bulolo Gold
Dredging to take an unusual line in regard
to the equipment of its Bulowat and Burn-
side areas, recently acquired from the
parent co., Placer Development. Owing to
unfavorable exchange, and to avoid delay, the
board has decided to accept the offer of the
Oroville Co. and the International Mining
Corp. to take up 65,000 new five-dollar
shares (Bulolo is registered in Vancouver)
at six dollars. (U.S.A.) each. This is
equivalent to 6.9 Canadian dollars, or
34/10 English and 43/7 Australian cur-
rency. Oroville is an old British corpora-
tion specialising in gold dredging, and Con-
solidated Goldfields of S. Africa, which is
closely connected with Oroville, was asso-
ciated with the International Mining Corp.
of. New York in financing the Bulolo co.’s
original area. Of the 65,000 issue Oroville
will take 55,000 and the International the
balance. Placer will be paid for the new
areas in Bulolo shares, of which it already
holds 151,000-odd. Placer has also handed
over to Bulolo the two dredging areas known
as Placer West, and Bulolo has given Placer
the right to recover the gold in the bouldery
ground north of Arnold’s leases. Bulolo has
already ordered its No.. 3 dredge from Poole
and Steel, Sydney.
* -t- * *
Another gold find is reported from Queens-
land, this time in the old workings at the
Mt. Clifford mine, near Anakie in the Central
West. The Mt. Clifford was abandoned 30
years ago, but not until a fair amount of
development had been done, some £7OOO hav-
ing been spent. The ore was treated with
a Huntingdon mill, but all records were
lost in the great flood at Clermont, leaving
no statistical clue to the reason for the
abandonment, which was probably due to the
then cost of treating the sulphides. Tim
Fahey, who has had 50 years’ experience of
Queensland mining, has been investigating
the property in company with another ex-
perienced hand, Jim Thorn. A six-ton parcel
crushed at Gympie for over 2oz. per ton;
recent assays show up to of free gold
and some silver and copper. A small pocket
in the Mary reef, 15ft. down, yielded 320 z.
Ore in sight and ready for crushing is esti-
mated at 2250 tons, which is expected to
return £13,000 worth of gold.
* * *
“Old Hand” : It has been claimed that the
10-head tin battery which is being trans-
ferred from Kooboora to Wandoo (Q.) will
be able to put through 100 tons a day from
each of two separate places. The capacity
of a gold battery is two tons per stamper
per day, or just about. It has a high lip
delivefy and a fine screen, the object being
to retain the pulverised material until the
gold content is picked up by the quicksilver
and converted into amalgam. The overthrow
passes over ripples, tables, plates, etc. A
tin battery has a low lip delivery to enable
the pulverised material to be pushed through
coarse screens as rapidly as possible. Evi-
dently most of the gold from this method of
crushing is to be saved ’from the tailings.
❖ & * i\i
The old Cassilis mine, 12 miles south of
Oineo (Vic.), is to be unwatered and tested
by the National Gold Mining and Milling
Company. The Cassilis was first worked in
1898, and until 1916, when operations ceased,
about 110,000 tons were treated for 95,0000 z.
of gold. There are five parallel lodes, aver-
aging about 30in. in width, but the lenti-
cular shoots diminish with depth. The lodes
were proved to a depth of over 1000 ft.
The ore consists of pyrite, arsenopyrite,
galena and blende; the gold occurs mainly
with the first-named. The King Cassilis.
a mile east of the Cassilis, is also to be
tested. It carries ore even more sulphidic
than the Cassilis.
* * # *
The diatomaceous earth deposits near
Avoca (Vic.), which are considered to
be amongst the world’s best, are being
opened again, this time by a Sydney co.
The material, which has a multitude of’uses,
has been widely adopted in the manufacture
of accumulator containers. It is made up
of a huge aggregate of the siliceous skele-
tons of water-living organisms. In Vic. it
also occurs at Ballarat and Lancefield; in
N. S, Wales at Coonabarabran and Barraba;
in Queensland at Nerang and Canungra.
The principal world supplies are obtained
from U.S.A. (110,000 tons annually) and
Denmark (38,000 tons).
* * * *
After earning a net profit of £8978 in the
previous 12 months, Rose, Thistle and Sham-
rock, Harrietville (Vic.), reports a loss of
£363 for the half-year to the end of January
last; when 1298 tons were crushed for
778 Joz. of gold, an average of 12dwt.
per* ton compared with an average of
26dwt. for the preceding 12 months. Appa-
rently the ore is not only poorer, but
it has been worked out except for three small
blocks of stone above the 595, 920 and
1020 ft. levels. After cleaning out these
stopes, sinking will be resumed below 1346 ft.
on the offchance of finding another payable
shoot.
* * * *
New Red, White and Blue Consolidated,
Bendigo (Vic.), finished up the 12 months to
the end of January £1029 to the good. The
co. milled 3693 tons for a yield of 14160 z.
gold, an average of over 7idwt. per ton, and
tributors crushed 898 tons for 2130 z. The
new electric pump reduced drainage costs
from £2O to £3 ss. per week. A lot of low-
grade stuff has been disclosed in the work-
ings on the spurs, but the bulk of it is said
to be payable. Presently another 10 head
of stamps is to be placed in commission.
sj» sj« *!*
Owing to the depreciation of sterling and
the exchange, Ironbark, another Bendigo
show, was able to pay four 6d. divs., total-
ling £6OOO, and put £2500 in the cupboard
during the six months to the end of Decem-
ber. The 4118 tons of stone crush yielded
21790 z. gold, an average of 10.58dwt. per
ton as against an average of B.22dwt. for the
preceding six months.
Sc * * *
After protracted negotiations, B. H. Prop,
has taken an 18 months’ option over the
Enterprise at Fimiston (W.A.). At the
moment B. H. Prop, is diamond drilling and
cross-cutting from the 700 ft. level of the
North Ivalgurli, and from the 500 ft. level
of the Hamilton shaft on Great Boulder
Prop.
* * * *
Erection of the new bromo-cyanide plant
at Boulder Perseverance should be completed
within the next three months. When the
job is finished treatment costs are expected
to be reduced to 10s. per ton. The claim
is based on prospects of better recoveries,
which general-manager Blacket says he can
get as a result of improvements he has
made in the process. The plant has been
designed to treat over 7500 tons of ore per
month.
•i' ! I : ■!> sj<
Empire Extended Co. has abandoned its
option at Mulwarrie (W.A.). The local
papers had puffed the venture on the
strength of official reports. Now, owng to
lack of funds for further development, no
ore is available for crushing; and 90,000
of the co.’s forfeited shares have failed to
elicit a bid in Adelaide.
A novel stamper battery is on exhibition
at the Mining Museum, Sydney. It was de-
signed by M. B. McGrath, Government
Inspector of Mines in N. S. Wales, for use
by small claim-workers, to whom a regular
battery is unavailable. It can be made by
any miner fairly handy with tools ; the only
parts to be purchased are a wire rope, the
stamper box and stamper. The machine is
designed to be worked by a horse whim,
but a small engine may be used.. The whim
lifts the stamper to the required
where it is released by a simple tripping
mechanism. The same lift works a spear
pump to raise the necessary water. Plates
for amalgamating, etc., can be added.
*•* * *
“Itski”; Under the Plan Russia spent
the equivalent of £40,000,060 in English
money on mining developments during 1931,
and double that amount is to be expended
this year. Among the new plants to come
into operation during 1932 are the electro-
lytic copper refinery at Swerdlowsk, with a
capacity of 100,000 tons annually, a 20,000-
ton electrolytic zinc plant at Tcheliabinsk
and a 5000-ton nickel refinery at Ufala. In
addition copper concentrating plants at
Kalata, Karabash and Degtiar, with' an
aggregate output of 260,000 tons per annum,
are scheduled to start up.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) The Royal Mint pays £6 15s. Id. for
22-carat gold and £7 7s. 4d. for fine gold.
Explain this? (2) Is smelted gold from a
crushing battery fine? —8620.
(1) The value of gold in Australia now
depends on the rate of exchange on London,
and the price of gold in London. This latter
varies mainly with the rate of exchange on
New York. The “Mint value” of gold is
£3 17s. per ounce standard (22 carat).
Any increase above this price is paid by the
Mint on behalf of the Commonwealth Bank,
w’hich fixes a price each week for gold which
was lodged for sale the previous week. Fine
gold, or 24-carat gold, is absolutely pure.
Commercially metal is accepted as “fine
gold” which contains 991 p.c. gold, the
quantity of pure gold in it being determined
by assay, and the gold content only being
paid for.. (2) Gold from a crushing battery
is never pure. It almost invariably con-
tains silver, and generally a fair quantity of
base metal also. Its fineness, or the number
of carats it contains, varies according to
the nature of the ore treated and the method
of extraction, and it may assay anything
from 1 carat to 23 carat, or even higher, in
fineness.
(1) Could the Government of N. S. Wales
legally expropriate Commonwealth Saving*
Bank accounts? (2) Could it legally expro-
priate money on fixed deposit with the Asso-
ciated Banks in N.S.W. as and when the
deposits fall due? —8585.
(1) and (2) Depends on what meaning
is given to “expropriate.” The Govern-
ment’s powers of taxation are very great:
they can be limited only by the Common-
wealth occupying those fields and asserting
rights therein.
(1) Would a surface deposit of red oxide
ore averaging up to 40 p.c. pure be payable?
(2) Any large known deposits in Victoria?
(3) Is oxide in conjunction with ironstone
outcrops a possible indication of radium-
bearing carnotite? —8340.
(1) A number of factors (location, nature
and extent of deposit, purpose for which the
oxide is best suited, etc.) would have to
be taken into consideration to determine
whether a deposit could be worked profitably.
(2) Yes; but not opened up. Total recorded
value of production is under £1500; none
at all for two or three years past. (3) The
occurrence of oxide of iron with ironstone
does not indicate either presence or absence
of carnotite.
Rule for ascertaining the quantity of gold
in a piece of quartz, the sp. gr. of specimen
being known? —B397.
The amount of gold in a piece of quartz
can be determined only when present in
appreciable quantity. The formula usually
adopted is as follows:
D- Q G
Weight of gold = W x x
G- Q D
W = Weight of specimen.
D = Specific gravity of specimen.
Q = Specific gravity of pure quartz (2.5)
G = Specific gravity of gold (19.2).
Any demand for good-quality red oxide?
Market price per ton? —8524.
There is a steady demand by paint manu-
facturers for good-quality red oxide. The
main considerations in determining the
quality are the shade and strength of color.
Prices range from £5 to £lO and more.
(1) Any demand for kiesilguhr? (2) Is it
mined or quarried in Australia? (3) Market
value? —8506.
(1) Kiesilguhr (diatomite) has a limited
demand. (2) During 1930 the production in
N. S. Wales was 1240 tons, principally from
Bugaldie and Barraba. Figures for 1931
not yet available. (3) From £3 to £4 per
ton on trucks, country stations.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Burra Scrub : If safety of capital is im-
portant, no. It is a gamble on the markets....
A. : Sorry, but a shameless law says you must pay.
... .A.G.: (1) The co. is just about to turn the
corner; bonus prospects are not bright. (2) See
B. 6/l/’32.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
The Right to the Dole
Dear B.,—“Gad” (B. 10/2/’32) claims the
dole on the ground that otherwise he would
starve to death. If he can point out any
valid reason why he should live on . other
people's earnings, I, for one, should like to
know it. —Yours, Egad.
The Age of Electors
Dear Bulletin, —You say (10/2/’.°>2) “a
youth may be old enough to shoot or be shot
at when he is too young to select the legis-
lator who directs the shooting.” A juster
policy, and one more likely to promote peace,
would be to confine decisions of policy relat-
ing to war to those persons who would have
to fight. The elderly warmakers who regard
youth as potential cannon fodder should be
restricted to matters in which they them-
selves will suffer for their stupidity. —Yours,
Ace.
The Unemployed and the Land
Dear B., —Thousands of unemployed in the
cities will never again secure constant em-
ployment there, and millions will have to be
paid for their sustenance. In the dairying
districts there are thousands of acres of
unimproved land. There are no surplus
stocks of butter, cheese, eggs or canned fruit
in Australia. All that is required is credit
for development. In my district (Gippsland)
dozens of arrivals from the city during the
past 18 months are making good. Their
principal asset was, like that of the early
pioneers, the realisation of the fact that they
have to make good. If the Government will
give a little assistance by way of an allow-
ance, paid, say, quarterly on results achieved
in the way of improvements, plus a small
advance for stock (in kind) and some build-
ing materials, there would be a substantial
movement to the country; and therein lies
our only hope of relief from the demoralising
dole. —Yours, Butterfat.
Parliamentary Representation
Dear Bulletin, —As long as votes can be
bought by such promises as “7s. 6d. per
bushel for wheat” the professional politician
will flourish, and will legislate in the in-
terests of his supporters, no matter what the
cost to the country. True democracy can
only be achieved by making Parliamentary
representation an obligation instead of a
prize. Abolish geographic electorates and
substitute vocational grouping. Let the
farmers, miners, doctors, laborers, etc.,
nominate their cwn members, and make the
chief executives of such departments as rail-
ways, treasury, etc., automatically members.
The diversity of interests would prevent any
one section from becoming all-powerful, and
a House so constituted not only would be
representative but would contain a large pro-
portion of men of proved ability. Make each
section responsible for the payment of its
representative at the average wage of the
class concerned, and a job in Parliament
would cease to be a plum to be sought and
lied for, and would appeal only to a public-
spirited man. —Yours, M. F. G. B.
Overlapping in the Public Service
Dear Bulletin,- —I have read your
articles on overlapping in Government depart-
ments. There should be an inquiry into the
state of things within the Defence (Naval)
Department. ; What necessity exists for the
following positions in the Victualling Branch
of the Naval Office: Director of Victualling,
Melbourne; Assistant ditto, Melbourne ; Vic-
tualling Store Officer, Sydney; Deputy ditto,
Sydney; Assistant ditto, Sydney? These
positions range in salary from £650 to £9OO
and are bolstered up by a big staff of clerks.
Then again in the Stores Branch we have the
following positions: Director of Naval Stores,
Melbourne ; Assistant ditto, Melbourne ; De-
puty ditto, Melbourne ; Naval Stores Officer,
Sydney; Deputy ditto, Sydney; Assistant
ditto, Sydney (two positions). It is absurd to
suppose that while the R.A.N. consists of
three or four ships, civil officers occupying
the above positions could be fully employed,
to say nothing of the host of clerks, typists,
etc.--Yours etc., Blue Water.
Queensland Pastoral Problems
Dear B., —Tlie District Improvement
Boards, established in a hurry to take the
place of the abolished Dingo and Rabbit
Boards, are a costly experiment. Each new
board commenced in the same way: first an
extravagant assessment; next payment of
members instituted; overseers, clerks, offices
installed; then all precautions that had
kept the pests in check for 20 years and
more discontinued. Twelve months' in-
activity has suited the dingo; cattle-breeders
find they are branding only half the normal
number of calves. One horse-breeding
station reports that mares have to be kept
in hand till foals are three or four months
old to save them. Sheep have been put
clean out of the question for profit on the
rougher holdings; some owners early real-
ised this and got rid of their flocks; many
others are holding on in the hope that the
Government may be persuaded to abandon
the experiment. The latest proposal, that
the boards shall meet to decide what charge
they will make on travelling stock, should
bring about their downfall; it would be the
cheeky imposition of a charge for no return.
The stockowners placed by the boards at
the mercy of dingoes are bitter enough;
but if anyone wishes to hear the position
and those responsible for it faithfully dealt
w T ith, let him mention the District Improve-
ment Boards to any man in the new rabbit-
infested areas!—Yoars, Spinifex.
Public Markets
Dear B., —The shops pay growers of
market produce what they like, but munici-
pal markets, like the old Queen Victoria
in Noi;th Melbourne, uffiich has been the
stand-by of thousands of small growers for
50 years, provide quick disposal of perish-
able produce at fair prices with immediate
cash. For many miles around Melbourne
gardeners can afford to buy laid-on water
at about Is. a thousand gallons. With
that a living is assured on a very small
block if distribution of produce is assured.
—Yours, L. A. S.
N.S.W. Friendly Societies
Dear Bulletin, —Surely we have enough
to do to care for the improvident, which are
many, without spoonfeeding the provident.
Friendly societies all call themselves “inde-
pendent” and preach self-help and self-
dependence, yet they are dependent on the
Government for - £77,483, according to the
Register of N.S.W. Friendly Societies for
the year ending 1930. Mr. Dang intends to
limit the amount to £50,000, and, according
to the heads of the societies, it will be their
financial ruin. I know dozens of members
who are practically independent men, and
their medical and chemist fees are paid from
a depleted Treasury. If this is a fair thing
to the country under present conditions,
well, I’m done. No other State subsidises
friendly societies. The Act in the first place
was a sop, rushed by the societies when
they found they were getting something for
nothing. No society has a right to call itself
independent and self-dependent under sub-
vention, and the Act wants revising if not
wiping out altogether. I say this as a
worker in the friendly society movement for
the past 48 years.—Yours, Oddfellow.
Obstacles in the Worker’s Way
Dear Bulletin, —Having found rich lode
floaters on N.S.W. country held for Govern-
ment purposes, two of us applied last
November for authority to prospect. The
assay caused much interest at. the Mining
Registrar’s office, and we have been told the
particulars were sent to ,‘che department imme-
diately. After a long wait, inquiries brought
the information that the applications were
received (at, any rate, stamped) only on
January 12 at the Mines Department.
February has now gone, and red-tapeism
still maintains a profound silence, and we
progress rapidly and surely towards the
dole. Yet compared with other applications
to prospect that I know of, our wait is as
yet only in the kindergarten class. Is this
the Government’s way of helping the un-
employed?—Yours, Sand Plain.
Poisoning the Nation
Dear Bulletin,—A man living close to
me had been drinking alleged port wine for
eight days. He obtained it by the bottle
from one of two adjacent hotels, bringing it
to his room quite openly. He then became
so ill that a friend and I dumped him into
a car and rushed him to a doctor. The
medico guessed methylated spirits; we know
that he hadn’t touched “meth” —not under
its own banner, anyway. Hotels receive far
less attention than the
much-abused wineshops
in the matter of wine
quality, being regarded
more as beer and spirit
houses; actually, with
the progress of the de-
pression, wine-drinking
(being cheaper from the
“kick” point of view) has
greatly increased in
hotels, and many unscru-
pulous licensees are pur-
veying all kinds of queer
(and profitable) concoc-
tions as “port.” Seeing
that men and women are
far greater assets to a
nation than publicans’
banking accounts, isn’t it
time someone in authority
woke up ? —Yours, Hom-
frey Beale.
Commonwealth
Interest Coupons
Dear B., —Since the
dawn of the Common-
wealth I have met with
almost insuperable diffi-
culty in cashing interest
coupons, clipped from
Commonwealth bonds, as
the interest becomes due.
That they are negotiable
at any bank in the Com-
monwealth is printed
upon them, but try it
out and see what hap-
pens—in a country town,
anyhow. Hand a coupon
over the counter and
watch for the look of be-
wilderment, quickly turn-
ing to suspicion, on the
face of the counter clerk.
After noting that you
are not disguised and do
not carry a gun, he dis-
appears behind the par-
tition and holds whispered
converse with his col-
leagues. Presently the
bunch tiptoe stealthily
into the manager’s office,
and he, after peeping at
you through the doorway,
comes out and advises you
to try the post office or
another bank. You. go to
the post office and other
banks, but the game of
“passing the buck” goes
on indefinitely. Why? Is
there a catch in it? It’s
no use quoting the depres-
sion and the consequent
disrepute of Common-
wealth bonds, because I
know by .experience that
the same thing happened
even in pre-war days.
Why ? —Yours faithfully.
S. J. D.
A Cheaper Federal
System
Dear Bulletin, —
Taxation and more taxa-
tion is the only panacea
that the country is
offered. We try to buoy
ourselves up by pointing
out that the trouble is
world wide; but that is
only another misfortune
and makes things all
the harder. If Australia
were to get down to hard facts, hard work
and no restrictions, I believe we would re-
cover more quickly than any other country.
We can produce practically anything, but
our artificial conditions strangle every
industry, and practically every primary pro-
duct has to be kept going by subsidies. It
seems there are only two courses open—
unification or a revised Federation; pre-
ferably the latter, as Australia is too big
a country to be worked from one centre.
It is not the actual cost of Parliaments
that is the trouble; it is the parasites that
go with them. Could we not have a Federal
Council, with a couple of representatives
from each State, to take over Customs and
Postal departments, deal with international
questions and carry out a policy for defence:
The revenue from Customs and Postal de-
partments would be used in paying for
defence and war pensions; if any revenue
was left over it would be returned to the
States per capita. Debts would be allocated
to each State —war debts per capita ; the
balance to each prodigal according to its
lOU’s. Canberra, baby bonus, old-age pen-
sions, would all go. They were things we
never could afford. Necessitous cases would
be provided for by the State; but it is
time the individual was taught that he must
provide for himself. Arbitration Courts will
go in any case; the system of the few
working to provide for those unemployed will
break down as the number of the former
decreases. As I sec it, things cannot better
themselves until taxation is reduced very
considerably, and thrift encouraged.—Yours
faithfully, F. M. Bell.
The Unimportance of Gold
Dear B., —All this political economy that
is written nowadays gives me a headache.
All the gold in the world could be pitched
into the sea to-morrow, and the world would
still continue to exist; but if the earth
was made barren all the people on this
planet would return to dust within six
months. Therefore I’ve proved conclusively
that production and not money is wealth.
You’ve got plenty of land, timber and labor
in Australia, haven’t you? Well, where is
your problem? There is no problem to
solve ; anyhow, nothing to speak of! —Yours,
Honi Pikau (M.L.).
An Internal Reconstruction
Dear Bulletin, —The present public
debt of Australia is 1150 m. (m. denotes
millions), about half internal and half ex-
ternal, and it has increased from about 300 m.
since 1914. Nearly threequarters of our
public debts have been contracted during
and since the war—more since than during.
The total interest bill is upwards of 50m„
about three-fifths due overseas, exchange at
present rate adding a further Bm. p.a. Since
June, 1929, floating debts of the Australian
Governments have increased from 54m. to
785 m. They have increased at the rate of
26m. annually and are now a nightmare and
a continual and increasing strain on the
banks. The deficits of the Australian Gov-
ernments for current year are estimated at
between 15m. and 20m. The economists last
year estimated the drop in national income
was from 650 m. in 1927-28 to 450 m. in
1930-31 —about 30 p.c., which is a rough
guide for necessary readjustments. In 1927-
28 Government expenditure was 29 p.c. of
national income and in 1930-31 it reached
44 p.c. of the reduced national income—
Governments by spending and taxing have,
burnt the candle at both ends, drying up
credit resources. Taxation is beyond break-
ing point. The dole is becoming a nightmare
and in N.S.W. alone, is costing 6|m. —and
nothing to show for it. Unemployment has
increased from 13.1 p.c. in 1929 to 28 p.c.
in 1931, the increase being greatest in
N.S.W.—from 13.8 p.c. to 31.5 p.c. The
plight of graziers and wheat-farmers is still
desperate, the price of their products having
fallen 50 p.c., and it is estimated primary
producers owe by way of mortgage, etc., at
least 200 m. Yet primary industries and
exports must be increased to prevent default
overseas. A vital point about our public
debts is that about a quarter are war debts
(gone up in smoke and unrepresented
by assets) and a good proportion of tlm
balance arc unrepresented by assets equiva-
lent to the huge sums squandered on them..
Mr. Bruce has stated that unless there is a
rise in external prices the world financially
must burst, and he is quite right. An internal
reconstruction and writing down seems in-
evitable. In any event the whole position
requires a further immediate financial and
economic conference of experts.—Yours
faithfully, Australian.
Blasphemous Orators
Dear Bulletin, —Isn’t it time the police
took more notice of the orator who yells
blasphemy every Sunday in the Sydney
Domain? The nuisance has assumed such
magnitude that it is almost impossible to
pass across the area without one’s ears being
assaulted by ribald references to the Deity
or the Christ, while insulting references to
religion in general constitute two-thirds of
the poisonous gassing of the pests referred
to. The subjects mentioned are sacred to
the great majority of mankind, and it is
scandalous that ordinary citizens cannot
enter their own recreation ground without
having their feelings gratuitously outraged
by a handful of non-moral riffraff. —Yours,
I-lomfrey Beale.
THE NEW LEDGER.
“As the hour approached for the imposition of the new duties an officer of the London Customs
House waited with an open ledger before him. Three foreign ships had been sighted m the Thames
Estuary. If they could get to Gravesend before five they could land their cargoes duty free But
the tide was against them; no message came, and, as the hour struck, the official put away the old
ledger and brought out a new one. Freetrade was dead.


Missing Friends.
17 VANS. —Eliza or Elizabeth, the wife of
Alfred Evans, formerly of Albury,. store-
keeper, and of No. 35 Pemberry Road,
Hackney, Middlesex, England. Any persons
who can give information as to the above-
named Eliza Evans are requested to com-
municate with us. Mrs. Eliza Evans was
married to Alfred Evans in or about the
year 1863, and in 1888 was living in Eng-
land at the address stated above. She is
believed to have died some years ago in
England.
ALLEN, ALLEN & HEMSLEY,
Solicitors, 19 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Poverty Point
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Blue Roses”
Criterion “Bright Side Up”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royag “The Chocolate Soldier”
King's “The Barretts of Wimpole Street”
State Movies and Talkies
*
Russia Revealed
Well, at last I know the Truth about
Russia (our Melbourne Office Flapper
writes). It happened this way. I and my girl
friend were passing the Temperance Hall in
Russell-street cn route for the pictures when
we heard a man
shouting, “Com-
rades, here’s your
chance to learn
the truth about.
Russia. You have
listened to the lies
the Capitalists
tell you, pay your
sixpence here
and see the Pic-
ture that tells its
own Story. Come
and see the way
the workmen live
under the Soviet.
Come and see
what will be hap-
pening in your
own country in a
little while.”
“What are they howling
for?" said the O.G.
Well, we asked the man who made the film
and he said the Russian Government. And
if the Russian Government doesn’t know T the
Truth about Russia who does know it, I
ask you! So we went in.
Well, the place was packed and the first
thing that happened was that two nice young
men with foreign accents offered us their
chairs. “Well,” said the other girl, “what do
you know about that?” I mean, we always
thought that the Soviet stood for the equality
of the sexes so that is one capitalistic lie
nailed to the counter. Well, the next thing
was another young man sat down at the
piano and struck up a tune and everybody
rose to their feet and began to sing. The
words were strange but not a bit more strange
than the National Anthem when you come to
think of “Confound their politics, frustrate
their knavish tricks.” One of the foreign
young men who had given us his chair said
it was the International.
Then the lights went out and another
foreign-looking young man stood in the spot-
light and there was a roar of welcome and
he held up his hand for silence and said,
“Comrades, you know what Melbourne is
like.” (Yells of derision and amusement.)
“A Goodwill delegation from Canada.”
“Now I’m going to show you Something
Different.” Then the lights went out.
The first picture was of a Delegation from
somewhere or other arriving at Linengrad.
There were flags and brass bands and a big
ship nosed her way through the ice floes and
a lot of fat gentlemen got out of her and a
lot of other fat gentlemen came down and
shook them by the hand. Well, if it wasn't
for the total absence of top-lmts it would be
just like a Goodwill delegation from Canada
arriving at Port Melbourne docks, whispered
my girl friend.
Scene Two was a picture of the delegates
inspecting the great Iron and Steel Foundry
at Nijni Novgrod. There were furnaces and
electric cranes and molten metal and huge
steel castings and great retorts all blazing
like the front of the
“Soldiers of the
Red Army.”
Regent Theatre on a
gala night. Just like
Broken Hill, mur-
mured the g.f. “Here
you see the Manager,”
said the Man who
knows all about it on
the platform. “In the
old days he worked as
a common laborer.
Now he controls this
vast enterprise.” “Just
like Sidney Myer; his
father was a hawker
or something at Ben-
digo,” whispered the
Other Girl.
Then the delegates
inspected the Great
Confectionery Factory
at Petropavlovsk or
some place like that.
I didn’t know the Bol-
shies ate chocolates,
whispered the O.G.
Well, there were vats
of steaming fondant,
buckets dipping into seas of nougat and rows
of girls in spotless white all packing lollies
like mad. It feels just like home, whispered
the Other Girl. She used to work for Mr.
Macßobertson.
“Here you see the Winter Palace of the
Czar. This is now the property of the prole-
tariat,” said the man on the stage. Howls
of glee from everybody.. “What are they
howling for?” said the Other Girl. “It’s just,
like the Public Library, Museum and Art
Gallery in Swanston-street.”
“Now you see the Workers’ Rest Houses.”
A great square building like a vast hotel.
The young man at the piano played “Home,
Sweet Home.” Model houses built for
workers, just like our Savings Bank homes.
Tlie Summer Residence of the Romanoff
parasites, now a children’s village, the Her-
mitage a museum of art, the Royal Box at the
Theatre reserved for peasants who could not
afford the cheapest seats in days gone by.
(“Pretty near as good as the sixpenny seats
at the State,” whispered the Other Girl.) Nine
millions set aside in Linengrad alone to build
more workers’ clubs and model homes. Scenes
at Moscow, a storm of cheering from the
audience at a picture of the memorial to the
soldiers of the Red Army who fell in 1917.
Sort of Shrine of Remembrance, remarked
the Other Girl. More of the International. A
brief scene of Linen walking towards the
camera, everybody rising to their feet to
cheer and clap. Sort of Don Bradman, mur-
mured the Other Girl. Suppose he put
Russia on the map.
Well, then there was more International
and the man on the platform said a lot about
somebody called Karl Marks and about a
thing called the Five Year Plan that every-
body was working like mad and about the
Spiritual Forces of the Revolution and about
Russia being the Workers’ Fatherland and
then there was more International and every-
body cheered themselves hoarse and then we
found ourselves out in Russell-street. “Well,”
I said to my girl friend, “what do you think
of the Bolshies now?” “Well,” she said,
“I’m only a working girl, and if there’s
any place more like Russia than another
it’s Melbourne. But I think it would be
grand to be, Linen, or Karl Marks or one
of those other chaps.”
The New Sydney Rep. Society’s produc-
tion of Jacinto Benavente’s “The Passion
Mower” was of a decidedly higher stan-
dard than most of its recent efforts. The
play tells the story of a stepfather’s love for
his stepdaughter and the tragedy which it
brewed. Acacia, the beautiful daughter of
“Now he controls this vast enterprise.”
Raimunda, has been persuaded against her
will to become the betrothed of Faustino.
The play begins on the night of Acacia’s
betrothal fiesta. The assembled guests are
in a merry mood and songs and dances are
indulged in cheerfully. Acacia sits apart in
silence as if regretting her acceptance of
Faustino. The celebrations concluded, the
guests depart and soon after a shot is heard.
Faustino is the victim and the murderer
unknown. Suspicion falls on Norberto, a
former sweetheart of Acacia’s. He is
arrested, tried, but is able to prove his inno-
cence. Faustino’s family are not content to
let the matter drop, and the father of the
dead boy, Tio Eusabio, stalks hither and
thither vowing revenge. Acacia takes little
interest in the tragedy, but Raimunda is
continually harping upon it and speculating
as to the guilty person. Raimunda’s hus-
band, Esteban,
who displays signs
of nervous-
ness, shows a dis-
inclination to dis-
cuss the tragedy.
And so it goes on,
the sifting of evi-
dence, the mutter-
ings of Faustino’s
family, and the
tension in Raim-
unda’s household
Gradually titbits of
gossip, the increas-
ing offensive be-
havior of Rubio
(William Rees), a
family servant,
“Comrades, you know
what Melbourne is
like.”
whom Esteban refuses to reprimand, and
Esteban's jumpy manner convince Raim-
unda that the murderer is nearer home
than she thought. Norberto, pursued
by Tio Eusabio, who believes him to
be the murderer despite the acquittal,
is sheltered by Raimunda. She learns from
him that Rubio killed Faustino at Esteban’s
bidding because Esteban loved xYcacia. The
news surprises Raimunda, for Acacia has
hated Esteban from the time he married her
mother. Esteban is brought face to face
with Acacia by Raimunda. The mother is
prepared to forgive Esteban and requires
Acacia to act in a daughterly way to her
stepfather as a preliminary to hushing up
the affair. Acacia dramatically declares that
“It feels just like
home.”
she cannot be a
laughter to Este-
ban because she
has just discovered
that her hate con-
ceals her love for
him. Raimunda in
horror attempts to
stab her husband
but in the struggle
is killed herself.
An infuriated mob
enters and takes
Esteban away.
Barbara Smith, as
Raimunda, played
her part with con-
siderable power
and sincerity. Ken-
neth Fowles, apart
from a tendency to
overact, made
Esteban a striking figure. Amy Car-
penter, as Acacia, played the earlier por-
tions like a cold-blooded schoolmistress, but
got warmer as the play wore on. William
Hancock was impressive as the father of
the murdered man, and William Rees made
the murderer a sinister figure. George
Garden and Hugh Carlsson were passable
as Faustino and Norberto, and Dorothy
Whitely was splendid as an old lady, me
play will be repeated on Saturday.
if, tfc
In Melbourne last week there was a fresh
outbreak of playwritis by Beresford Fowler
at the Queen’s Hall. Mr. Fowler’s Op. 1 is
called “A Suit of Clothes, a Comedy ot
tae Depression,” and it could have been
written by almost any non-student of human
nature who has watched people whiling away
the dull days by playing poker. I here is
“Just like our Savings Bank homes.”
no characterisation whatever, and the prin-
cipal incident is silly. The other item on
the programme was Galsworthy’s ‘‘Win-
dows.” Mr. Fowler can lay the flattering
unction to his soul that he hasn’t yet written
a play as bad as this one by the eminent
Englishman. The problem is how a girl
who has smothered an illegitimate baby can
get a job as a housemaid. The conventional
people, including a poet, ask the rustiest
questions. Everything is rusty, everything
creaks with the rust of conventional think-
ing on the part of the author and forced act-
ing on the part of the actors. The last-
named wear themselves to the bone trying
to present something which is worth nothing
—the author has worn himself out trying to
think of something for his characters to say
that will be worth saying. He has delved
into the imitators of imitators but never
into life. The actors have studied Oscar
Asclie and Seymour Hicks, but one fears
that they could not tell you what would
be the logical psychological reactions on the
part of anybody. The window-cleaner
(Fowler) talks a lot about the instincts in
a desperate endeavor to reconcile them with
the moral code, and he also uses the word
“bloody.” There are sentimentalities about
trees, and a father with white paint on his
hair becomes tedious. The window-cleaner’s
daughter is sacked for kissing the poet, and
the window-cleaner says that he hopes they
all haven’t been giving way to their instincts.
The window-cleaner’s daughter states that
the sex problem is an economic problem, but
she doesn’t understand what she has said —
neither does Galsworthy. As a way out of
his difficulties he makes half the cast get
drunk, and the play apparently ends in the
middle. It has been throughout an illus-
tration of the obvious fact that the instincts
have power to mould human actions.
* * *
Apparently the French community in Mel-
bourne is like the Russian —it is a natural
incubator of amateur dramatic talent.
Molifere’s “Le Mariage Force,” put on
at the Mayoress’s instigation at _ the
Comedy on Saturday, was brilliantly inter-
preted by M. Yanderkelen (Sganarelle), M.
Rouel (Geronimo), Mine. Cockerton (Dori-
mene) and other members of the Alliance
Franqais. The music was by Lully, the
Florentine youth who rose from scullion to
the job of chief entertainer to Louis Four-
teen, and who danced, sang, wrote verses and
music and played in his Majesty’s orchestra. ‘
The orchestra on Saturday sat on the stage
in the costume of the period, and were
directed by city-organist McKie, disguised in
a curled wig and seated at a harpsicord.
There was a first part composed of ballets,
suites and whatnot, which suggested that
the grand monarch had simpler tastes than
would be expected of an audience of aunts
and mothers at a girls’ school break-up.
Lully’s music, hitherto little known to Mel-
bourne, was well within the vocal range of
Sylvia Fisher, Hilda Whalley, Helene Jacoby
and Jean Hamilton, and sounded dealt,
clean, crisp and rhythmical. It would pro-
bably seem dull to admirers of nineteenth-
century Italian grand opera. To a devotee
of jazz it would seem as wildly thrilling as
a dissertation on the split atom.
# ¥ *
In Ella Shields Melbourne Tiv. has
acquired absolutely its best vaudeville turn
for a long time. The combination of quiet
artistry, male sartorial excellence and senti-
ment has not been excelled in this Show-
man’s experience since that variety house
was hit to leg by the high cost of im-
ported artists. The famous impersonator
of Burlington Bertie has matured consider-
ably, and there is no evidence of strain either
on the vocal side or histrionically. There
are no notable deficiencies about the rest
of the entertainment. Hector St. Clair
appears as a distinguished female violinist,
and the fact that the audience penetrates
immediately to his disguise is no reflection
on a remarkable piece of make-up. It would
be difficult for Hector to camouflage himself
successfully under less than six inches of
reinforced concrete. Patillo, a Spanish
clown who manipulates a small replica of
himself, is an original gymnast. There are
no thrips on the Rosebuds, under which name
the usual ballet makes its familiar appear-
ance. A Frank Neil show without Frank
Neil in it sounds like theatrical false pre-
tences, but the present bill fulfils require-
ments.
* ¥ *
Arnold Bennett and Edward Knoblock’s
“Milestones” was unearthed and presented to
a full house by the Cairns Memorial Players,
Melbourne, on a recent night. The plot re-
quires the cast of players who appear
in the first act as blooming, bedutiful and
young, to turn up in the second as middle-
aged, and to arrive in the third as senile and
decrepit old folk. The Memorial Players
performed this miracle to the satisfaction of
all concerned, except Dorothy Bush, who
had obvious difficulty in making grease-paint
serve in place of Father Time. The list of
performers was large enough to. embrace every
variety of acting, including bad acting and
acting that wasn’t acting at all. but on the
whole the company did well. Leonard
McKean, Lewis Tegart and Lilian D’Alton
did more than well. For a play that is 20
years old and was not very strong at birth,
“Milestones” carries its age, though it doesn’t
get in under an audience’s guard so much
by swift rapier thrusts as by hitting it
repeatedly on the head.
Actors, sometimes meet a character who
seems to have been specially created for
them. Even long-dead playwrights appear
to have occasionally made this thoughtful
wui e - S 1 10 r T t? their interpreters. Allan
Wilkies Hamlet used to give this Showman
a pain, whereas his Malvolio used to fill him
with the milk of human kindness. Bcres-
ford I owler ought to give the shade of
rli S i n i a on both cheeks for his Hjalmar
JAidal, the fond and foolish photographer of
Ihe 'Mid Duck,” who, after cherishing a
daughter tor 15 years, lias, doubts thrown on
his parental competence by his friend
(xregers W erle. Ibsen is considered by
superior persons to be hopelessly old-
tashioned, but this study of the reactions of
a group. of assorted Scandinavians to the
stuffy mid-Victorian conventions has an air
of freshness absent from Mr. Rolls’s latest
revue at the Palace. The acting of Linda
Newcombe, Nancy Fryberg, Bert Watkins
and others stood comparison with any other
show in town, except “The Barretts.” An
audience of fully 30 greeted Fowler’s ex-
cellent production at Melb. Queen's Hall
with enthusiasm.
* V *
The Town Hall aid Baths committee of
the Melbourne City Council has approved
of a scheme for a festival of the music of
Bach, which has been proposed to it by
a committee representative of the lead-
ing musical bodies. It is not to be
inferred from this that organist William
McKie will conduct the proceedings from
a tub, after the manner of Maud Fane in a
now-forgctten musical comedy. The Baths
committee is charged ivith all civic activi-
ties connected with aesthetics. Incidentally,
the “Argus” recently announced that Mr.
McKie would conduct an organ recital, and
headed the item “Mouth-organ Recital.”
This was a trifle hard on Mr. McKie, who is
the reverse of a voluble person, and is a
musician with exceptionally high standards.
The Bach festival will include three choral
and orchestral concerts and organ recitals,
and should be a treat for all discriminating
music-lovers.
* * ¥
Bondi Operatic Club’s performance of
“Utopia, Ltd.” was strongest on the musical
side. Acting honors went to Don McNiven,
as Mr. Goldsbury, and Kathleen Griffin and
Phyllis Hardy, as the princesses. Costum-
ing was fair, save that Captain Corcoran
wore a petty-officer’s cap. Lighting left a
lot to be desired, and the ballet was slow in
getting into action. The show is to be
repeated on Saturday.
* * *
Nellie Bramley, who has firmly pegged out
a claim in Adelaide, has moved back from
the Tivoli to the Royal on the latter’s panto-
mime season ending. A promising variety
show takes her place at the Tiv. Prices at
both houses are cut to the bone.
V
“Let Us Be Gay,” with Ethel Morrison,
Iris Darbysliire and Campbell Copelin in
the cast, occupied Brisbane Her Majesty’s
last week. Dulcie Cherry does a musical
monologue as a curtain-raiser. This week
“The First Mrs. Fraser” is running.
* * *
Adelaide Repertory Theatre congratulated
itself on quite a lot of things at its annual
meeting: on having been, the first of its
kind in Australia; on now having a good
hall, _ the new Australia; on having just
acquired a large committee-and-rehearsal
room; on having about 700 members and a
handsome nest-egg invested —as against the
old-time overdraft; and on having worked
up a taste for one-act, plays, so that the
five nights of them are as popular as the
15 of regular drama. Then a re-elected Talbot
Smith president and Thomas Nave “vice,”
and started on another year’s hard work.
“Cat’s Whisker” : A cyclone is raging in
a pannikin due to a quarrel between the
Federation of Broadcasting Stations and
the Performing Rights Association. The
latter is a body with international affili-
ations which collects tuppence or thrippence
whenever a protected composition is sent
over the ether and pays over the money,
less bare expenses, to the composers, pub-
lishers and libretto-writers concerned. The
Federation complains that the Association
doesn’t publish a list of its compositions;
that they are not registered at the Copy-
right Office; that the fees are excessive and
should be regulated by the Government, and
that by the rearrangement of old compo-
sitions new copyrights have been cunningly
created. The Association says it doesn’t
publish a list because it would be so large
as to be useless—“millions of items”—and
registration at ss. a time isn’t practicable.
The Association doesn’t see why the Govern-
ment should regulate its tiny fees when there
is no check on the broadcasting stations'
substantial charges for advertising, and as
to the “arranged” compositions—well, there’s
no compulsion on anyone to use the arrange-
ments—the originals are still extant and
still free of copyright. This being a hard
world for composers and song-writers the
squeal of the broadcasters doesn’t arouse
much compassion.
“Craiser”: Some idea of the progress
made by the moving-picture business may be
gauged from the fact that the shortly-to-be-
demolished Britannia Theatre in Bourke-
street was regarded as the latest thing in
cinema palaces in 1912, when it was opened.
Its seating accommodation of 948 was
claimed to be the largest in the world. The
last talkie hall to be erected in Melbourne
seats—-or has seats for—4009.


A SADDLE TO LAST A LIFETIME
EVERY STITCH IN IT A HAND STITCH.
ẃ
THE
“TUMBA” POLEY
Made by a saddler with 50 years’
experience of saddle-making among
men who use them.
THE “TUMBA” POLEY is one of the finest examples
of saddleeraft we have ever offered to horsemen, and,
given reasonable attention, it will last a lifetime and
rarely see the repair shop.
The tree has a solid gullet that will not break or
spread, and the webs will never let you down on to
the wood of the tree. The skirt, passing round the
back of seat, is double and hand-sewn along the edge,
while the dees have metal lining under, the leather
attached to the tree and cannot pull out. The saddle
has an exceptionally narrow grip and the shape and
position of the pads give perfect security. TO SIT IN
A “TUMBA” IS TO DESIRE IT BEFORE Aid/
OTHERS.
Fitted with best bevelled leathers, folded girth and
best n.-p. 4-bar irons. Solid nickel stirrups would
be 4/- extra, and a ring surcingle 6/9 extra. For
cash with order we will pay freight to any N.S.W. railway station.
£ll/10/-
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. BOX 785 G.
35 YEARS’ HONEST MERCHANDISING AND TRUTHFUL ADVERTISING.
£50Deposit! Balance overTwo Crops
A SPECIAL OFFER on the
FORDSON TRACTOR
nPHERE is now no reason why
every farmer who needs a
Fordson should not have one. As a
result of an arrangement between
Ford Motor Company of Australia
Pty. Limited and the Traders Finance
Corporation Limited, the improved,
all-British Fordson is now offered
on the remarkable terms of only
£5O deposit, with the balance, in-
cluding freight, payable over your
next two crops. Only per
annum hiring charge will be made
on the outstanding balance.
These astonishing terms make it
possible for every farmer who needs
a Fordson Tractor to secure one
without delay. The new terms
mean that most of the cost of the
Tractor can be paid for out of your
earnings over almost three years.
The improved, all-British Fordson
stands alone in quality, adapta-
bility, economy and low price.
Almost every farmer needs one,
yet thousands have held off buying
because they thought a tractor
was beyond their reach.
This offer is open for a limited
period only. So act now if you
wish to secure a Fordson under
conditions never offered before,
and not likely to be offered again.
Do not delay. Get in touch with
your nearest Ford dealer im-
mediately. The cash price of the
Fordson Tractor is £220, f.o.b.
nearest Ford works; Sales Tax
extra.
Book your order at once ... to secure
these remarkable terms.
F.N. 15
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,” at Sydney
Prince Edward, couldn’t help being a good
talkie. All the performers are English stars,
and they were directed by Mamoulian for
Paramount. It is frankly a thriller, with
no highfalutin attempts to co-relate the char-
acters of Jekyll and Hyde, but of its class
it is a masterpiece. The atmosphere suffers
a little iu places from the director s un-
familiarity with London. Soho, which is
fairly modern, has never had dog-leg streets
or gabled houses; and a nineteenth-century
doctor who built a Hollywood palace in
Harley-street would have been shunned by
the profession as a pretentious bounder.
However, the illusion created by the V le-
torian dresses, furniture, manners and con-
ventions which the director thoroughly
understands is almost complete; and the
mechanical effects are magical. As Jekyli,
Fredi'ie March is a handsome young man,
nervy and amorous —he would be diagnosed
as suffering from repressions iu this era—
but ready to settle down if Rose Hobart s
military papa will let her marry him. Then
he discovers the drug that turns him into
Hyde. You see him drink it, and become
a primitive being, half-man, lialf-animal- a
hair-raising spectacle. It is a long time
since an ooli-ooh picture gave anyone a
thrill. The only interest present-day audi-
ences take in the disguised buffoon who
creeps ineffectually about making the ladies
of the play scream consists in trying to
guess whether he will turn out to be the
bishop or the family solicitor or the bead
detective. Hyde is terrifying, apart from
his appearance, because you know all about
him, and that is always liable to do some-
thing frightful, either out of native savagery
or in self-defence. The prostitute is obvi-
ously doomed from the moment he tells her
he is Jekyll, but he might have killed her
earlier for no reason. Miriam Hopkins, as
the prostitute, is responsible for the most
brilliant bit of acting in the show. No
woman has been so effortlessly dramatic ni
a British talkie. If Fredric March’s effort
has a flaw it is in his make-up as Hyde, who
would look as macabre and not so theatrical
with less beastial teeth; but then the camera
is death on make-up. Altogether, it is a
great production artistically, and as a tour
de force of morbidity, ahead of anything
that has been done hitherto on stage or
screen.
v v •“
Ben Travers’s "The Chance of a Night-
time” was the best of the two pictures
which served as first course to the extended
banquet of British films which the Athc-
na?.um, in its new role as the first theatre in
the Empire to specialise in British cooking,
aspires to spread before the Melbourne
public. In the safe hands of Ralph Lynne
it is a continuous giggle, whose chief draw-
back is that half the points are lost in the
laughter aroused by the other half. “Carni-
val,” in which Matheson Lang appears in
his ancient role of Sylvio Steno, differs con-
siderably from the stage play, and the dif-
ferences are all to the disfavor of the sei’een
version. Matheson in the flat is nowhere
as convincing as Matheson in the round. . He
poses melodramatically, whereas his offsider,
the beautiful Dorothy Bouchier, makes
Simonetta live with passionate sincerity.
The psychology of the story is open to ques-
tion. Simonetta goes off to the ball with
her soldier-lover and the usual orgy scene
results, the lovers, full of champagne, finally
collapsing into each other’s arms against a
background of spouting fireworks and under
an avalanche of paper streamers. The fol-
lowing night Othello-Lang duly tries to
strangle Desdemona-Simonetta, and is car-
ried off to his dressing-room in a fainting
condition. He recovers consciousness, to
find his wife pressing her lips to his and
assuring him that she has not been unfaith-
ful. The fact must be attributed less to
her moral strength than to her good fortune.
The picture is first class in the matter of
photography. The views of Venice and of
the carnival are as good as anything turned
out lately by rival factories.
V V
Following Sheriugham (Malcolm Keen),
who has her brother in his powali, Mary
(Betty Stockfield) taxies to “77 Park-lane”
(Sydney Ilaymarket), to find it seemingly
empty. She, being a lady, spurns the taxi-
driver’s assistance until he (Dennis Neilson-
Terry) reveals dress-clothes under his rough
overcoat. He is masquerading for a joke.
In the house he reveals that he is Lord
Brent, just returned from abroad, and that
No. 77 is his town house, which, they dis-
cover, Sheringliam has turned into a gamb-
ling hell —or rather heaven, for it is fre-
quented exclusively by the upper classes.
In this tony joint Mary’s brother has shot,
in self-defence, Sinclair, one of Shering-
ham’s bashers. Sheringliam offers to dis-
pose of the body if Mary will be his. She
accepts. But Brent discovers the “corpse” is
alive. That, however, doesn’t matter, because
Sheringliam soon slays Sinclair, shoving him
in the cellar, there to be found by raiding
police. It winds up in a wild fight, up and
down and around No. 77. Sheringham’s
falling body crashes through a candelabra —
a very lively and realistic scene. A new
British eo., Famous Players’ Guild, is re-
sponsible for the novelettish production.
Cowboy-hero Buck Jones and bad-man
Robert Ellis go through their usual motions
in “The Deadline” (Columbia), the other
attraction at the Haymarket. The goil in
the case (“no wrong would she believe of the
man she loved”) is Loretta Sayers. Mr.
Jones is continually being cast into prison
for crimes of which he is innocent, but, aided
by his educated boss Silver, he overcomes
this trifling handicap, finds the missing scrap
of paper which the villain carries in his
pocket-book to prove that he (the villain,
not good Mr. Jones) is a murderer, and
wins the goil. An original touch is pro-
vided by a bank manager in a small village,
who, subjected to a raid by bandits, mourns
that he must hand over to them all the
savings of his friends for years and years.
* * *
Based on Dale Collins’s novel “The Senti-
mentalists,” “His Woman” (Paramount), at
Sydney Regent, introduces nine-months-old
Richard Spiro, who occupies the screen for
a longer period than any previous infant-in-
arms actor. He gurgles and coos, squeals
and roars, objects to being bathed, refuses
his bottle, snatches at watches and crawls
out into the rain. Richard plays the part
of a stranded infant who is picked up by
Capt. Whalan, in charge of a tramp steamer,
at a tropical port. Whalan engages Sally
Clark, a dance-hall lady, to nurse the child
on the voyage home, taking her at her own
allegation that she is the daughter of a
deceased missionary. With the help of two
negro stewards, Sally passes muster as a
nurse, and grows genuinely fond of the
infant. The captain begins to lose his
heart to the nursemaid. The. mate of the
ship recognises Sally, and forces his atten-
tions upon her. In a row that follows the
mate is knocked overboard by the skipper,
but is picked up by a passing liner. Before
the tramp reaches port Whalan invites Sally
to marry him, and she consents. On reach-
ing port he has to explain why he thrashed
his mate, and then the fat of Sarah’s lurid
past is in the fire. The astonished mariner
chucks her over, though she pleads to be
allowed to stay and attend to the child. With
Sally away the infant gets a terrible pain
in its little inside, and one of the stewards
brings Sally back. A reconciliation with
Whalan follows. Old stuff, but Gary Cooper
and Claudette Colbert make Whalan and
Sally very convincing.
* * H~
Buster Keaton, in “Sidewalks of New
York” (M.-G.-M.), at Sydney Capitol, is
handicapped with a moralistic story. As
Harmon, a property-owner in the New York
slum area whose agent has difficulty in
collecting rents, he decides to go and rope
in the money himself. He arrives during
a juvenile gang fight and gets in the way of
a bombardment of vegetables and more
unsavory objects. He establishes a gymna-
sium in the district with the object of re-
forming the young hoodlums, particularly
Clipper, the younger brother of Margie
(Anita Page), with whom he has fallen in
love. Harmon’s benevolences are resented
by a gangster named Butch, who is using
Clipper as a tool in his unlawful occasions.
Butch and Clipper fear that Harmon is
aware of their misdeeds and the elder en-
deavors to persuade Clipper to shoot the rich
guy. The boy refuses and the film proceeds
through a welter of irrelevancies and com-
plications to a final absurd scene wherein a
horde of youngsters assault Butch and his
gang. The funniest scene is provided by
Keaton’s effort to carve a goose.
* * H-
The next best thing to exploring the
South Polar regions is to go to Sydney
Lyceum and liear-see “Siege of the South,”
Hurley’s record of Mawson’s latest voyage
to Antarctica. Glimpses of Macquarie Island
with its quaint penguins, basking seals and
brawling sea-elephants are made doubly enter-
taining by Hurley’s comments. The first
berg sighted has a thrill for the audience;
but they are soon common enough to pall in
spite of their beauty. There is an interlude
of whaling whilst the Discovery coals. Then
the ship goes further south along an icy
coast for 800 miles, trawling for strange
sea-life, charting currents, collecting data
about the . weather, and there is tragic
dismay when the ’plane is thought to be
permanently damaged. Then Mawson, having
named the bleak land he has discovered after
a princess and a lolly king, triumphantly
claims the whole for the British Empire.
* ¥ *
Columbia’s “The Fighting Marshal,” at
Sydney Roxy, is the usual cowboy burlesque,
more funny because the cast takes it so seri-
ously. Tom Benton (Tim McCoy), escaping
f ro m gaol, makes for Silver City to establish
jj is i nnoC ence and claim the mine, his heri-
tage Miraculously he is able to impersonate
h J marshal. Meeting the girl (Dot
Q JL Tll „
Gulliver), tis ov f ‘
saloon brawl he captures the two witnes ...
who perjured away his freedom. Before
he can hale them off to confess, Red Larkin
(Mat Betz) frees them, and the three rob
the cart carrying the weekly wages ,to the
mine. But Tim is at hand to give valiant
chase. He in turn is pursued—the town
has at last discovered his identity, llow-
ever, Tim regains the money and is proved
innocent. By some unaccountable oversight
the baddies forgot to kidnap the girl as well
as the gold,, so the path to the happy ending
is that much less tangled.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Eso :
F. E. Loxton, Esq,; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock—Wheels manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
Victoria: THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F-U9 9
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 “ £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Hargo”: Pat and Mick lived for many
years on the outskirts of a Vic. mining town.
Pat was never known to work, and Mick,
the elder brother, performed just sufficient
of it to replenish the larder. For
years he was uncomplaining over Pat’s
laziness, accepting it as a duty that he had
to “do” for both. Growing infirmities made
him change, and there came a day when he
ordered Pat to r-r-roll a shwag and get. “I
daun’t want to see or hear of yez agin.” When
he recovered from the stunning command,
Pat reluctantly obeyed and meandered out.
He had not proceeded more than half a mile
THE BORE.
“Punched me on the nose, ’e did, blackened, me eyes, broke four teeth, jumped on me
stummick an’ cracked five ribs. I tell yer, ’Any, I never got so tired of a bloke
in me life.”
down the lane leading to the main road
when he halted at the calling o-f his name
and loud coo-ees. Mick had relented and
gone after him. When they stood face to
face, the out-of-breatli Mick urged: “Here!
Give me the blanky shwag. I’ll go meself!”
And he did.
“Purari”: That yarn about the turtle
race (B. 24/2/’32) reminds me of the time
I refereed a fight between the champion
alligators of Nomatta and
Wotokolo, two rival villages in
the Gulf of Papua. Both
champions were heavily backed
in goannas and dried fish, the
first the standard currency of
Nomatta, which was some dis-
tance inland. (I should re-
mark that both villages had
gone off the cocoanut stand-
ard.) It struck me after the
first round that the Nomatta
champion was a bit sluggish,
and I soon found it necessary
to tell him that if he didn’t try
a bit harder I should have to
order him ou.t of the ring. He
looked very ugly over this, but
beyond getting away with one
leg of my trousers as I was
breaking a clinch, and biting-
one of his seconds so badly
that he had to be taken away
in the ambulance, nothing
much happened. The brute
was only waiting his chance,
however, and when he missed
a right swing in the seventh,
he made this an excuse for
swinging on his heel and catch-
ing me a ringabeller with his
tail. I recall flying through
the air, and then all was
blank. Later they told me he
had fouled his opponent in the
next frame, thus losing the de-
cision. This was evidently
deliberate, for it came out
later that the chief of Woto-
kolo had squared him—*-given
him the chief’s oldest and
fattest wife to eat when he
was supposed to be resting
before the scrap in his train-
ing quarters, with the conse-
quence that he was a beaten
alligator before he entered the
ring. There was some talk of
declaring it no fight and all
bets off, but as the Wotokolo
chief had laid the loser heavily
and was a dirty hand with a stone club, it
came to nothing.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
“Dimon”: One-eyed Boko Bob hawked fly-
veils and water-bags, and the bulk of hip swag
consisted of canvas and basil. At his night
camps he was usually seen diligently making
his wares by the light of the fire. Far inland
both men and horses, wear veils, those used
on horses being made of basil, cut in strips,
the men’s of netted cord. Many of the
horses are veiled not only while being ridden
or driven, but while feeding in the paddocks.
There is always a sale for veils in summer,
also for water-bags; and Boko found trade
enough to make him independent of jobs
except when he got into a shed for a “spell ”
The spell meant working in the shed all
day and making bags and veils at night to
sell to the shearers and rouseabouts. Boko
never complained, except when he met a
person wearing corks round his hat.
“Blitherin’ imitation spiders _to frighten
flies,” was his comment. Meeting one such
THE WITNESS.
JACKY: “Where you bin get'm this feller pound?”
MARY: “You ask'm pound. Boss him say ‘money talks.’”
at a shearers’ hut, talking theology between
shakes of the corks, he bustled up to him
with a newly-made protector. “Here,” he
said, “take the veil, damn yer!”
¥ ¥ * ¥
“Koi Hai” : “Gumblegubbin” (B. 17/2/’32),
describing the annual gobble-gathering of the
clans of-Bungaree at Parramatta, at which
there were “copious libations of something
stronger than ‘bull,’ ” adds “I don’t know
what is meant by “bull.’ ” Permit me
to shed a ray. When a rum-cask had
been emptied it was necessary to fill
it partly with water to prevent the staves
shrinking and leaking when refilled. The
water mixed with the dregs, aud soaked out
the rum with which the wood was impreg-
nated. After standing awhile the resultant
brew was fearfully potent. The process was
known as “bulling the cask,” and the
product was “bull.” “Bulling the teapot”—
making a second brew —is an expression still
used, especially by seamen. If the liquid
served to Binghi at these historic social
gatherings was livelier than “bull” it must
have been very strong stingo.
iji ;S« sjc :J:
“Herpes”; “Colub’s” contention (B.
24/2/’32) that the permanganate of potas-
sium treatment of snakebite is compara-
tively useless is as dangerous as his advocacy
of the exploded superstition about strychnine.
The strychnine treatment, once so popular,
has long been ruled out of court, since its only
effect is a tonic one, which applies to any
case of syncope. The permanganate
treatment has been accepted after years of
trial by every authority. Most essential
part of all is the immediate ligaturing of
the limb-—nearly all cases of snakebite occur
in leg or arm—and a deep, free incision to
liberate the infected blood as quickly as pos-
sible. The permanganate then plays its part
in destroying the poison by oxidisation.
$ ' $ * $
“Bogaduck”: The Barossa district, a tri-
angular patch of country which lies between
Williamstown, Gumeraeha and One Tree
Hill (S.A.), is mostly rough and heavily
timbered. A few years ago I found
boys of 14 and 15 there who had never
visited Adelaide, only 30 miles away in an
airline, and who had never seen a railway,
though on still nights the sound of loco,
whistles could be heard. I met a grand-
mother who had never ridden in a car, seen
a movie < or spoken on a ’phone; and
talked with an old chap who refused
to believe that such things as aeroplanes
even existed until Horry Miller began to
take his six-passenger Fokker to Ren-
mark. These people lived in huts built oi
split timber pugged with clay, exactly like
those of the early settlers, and gained a
living by wood-cutting, rabbiting, prospect-
ing and catching young cockatoos; they also
tilled little pocket-handkerchief paddocks on
the steep but fertile hillsides. I leased a
site for an apiary from one of the families.
Last year I went hack to their place with
my bees. The family now has a good
home; a car and a radio set have brought
them up Vo date; but the youngsters are
still bright, lovable, unspoilt. The bush
breeds a lot of virtues the city lacks.
I asked 5m old bushy who had lived all
his life in these hills if he was thinking
of putting in for rations. “No,” he chuckled.
“Nor the old-age pension either. You won’t
catch me doin’ that as long as these flats’ll
grow all the spuds an’ onions an’ termaters
an’ pumpkins we can eat. The cows still
give milk, an’ there’s trout an’ muddies an’
yabbies galore in that creek. An’ I still
know where ter fossick up a bit o’ gold
when me or the missus wants clothes or I
run outer terbacker.”
“Nudgee” : The crew of a Brisbane sailing-
boat had an unusual experience the other
day when a four-foot shark leaped into
their craft and made things merry until it
was dispatched by a whack with the tiller.
It is unusual for sharks to come aboard in
this fashion, though many other species of
fish have been known to do it. Years ago,
when traffic on Brisbane River was not so
heavy as it is to-day, huge schools of mullet
used to go up-stream far above the town
for spawning in the upper reaches. Anyone
wanting fresh fish for breakfast had only to
go out on the river in a boat with a lantern
and he could be certain of a good catch in
a few minutes. The men on the rowing
ferry-boats that used to ply acx’oss the river
at various spots in those days from dark
until daylight, with a lantern hanging from
a hoop above their heads, invariably made
such good catches that the disposal of them
to late or early clients was a profitable
side-line.
* * ¥ ¥
“Chiverton”: A queer happening is
reported from the Darling Downs. There
was a life-saving competition on at the
Warwick baths, when suddenly one of
the competitors climbed out announcing
that the devil or something like it
was in the water. Investigation showed
that the intruder was a platypus, which
must have come through the inlet pipe which
carries the water to the baths from the dam
at Silverwood, 15 miles away. Though the
little chaps were 'once common enough in
the Condamine, it is many years since one
was seen at Warwick.
THE ROADS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The red road is a steep road
By fern and giant tree,
Where birds ling and the blue haze hides
The distant sea.
The white road is a flat road
That stretches to the sky,
Where the sun burns and the grass dies
And the crows cry.
The black road is a cold road
Where the marsh grass grows,
Where the dead trees stand like spectres
And the flood flows.
The yellow road is a soft road
That leads unto the sea,
Where the waves break like thunder
And winds blow free.
The blue road is a stone road
By city and by town,
Where cart-wheels scream and motors
Bump up and down.
The green road is the green grass
Beneath the open sky,
Where flowers grow and we wander,
Just you and L
VICTORIA.
ME. G.


Private Finance
AND
Public Taxation
How Much More Can
We Stand ?
SEE
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY"
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY 2/-
PER ANNUM 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
Plum Razor Guard
wmm
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and ?in. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
&/>e PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle ...... 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.) .
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case—
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/.
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—§in. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street,
free of charge.
Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager* who will
quote you price for the original.
“FY7”: The hot blast has been disastrous
to the birds in Western Queensland as well
the N.T. (B. 2/3/’32). In the Central
West thousands fell dead from the trees,
while many more sought refuge in houses.
Many others perished in the bore drains,
flying into water in which a human being
could not bear to dip a hand. The effect
of this paralysing dry heat has to be
experienced to be understood. In the 1880’s,
during a long drought, the body of a swag-
man was found under a tree on Alice Downs
in the Barcoo country. It had been there
for months, apparently, for it was perfectly
mummified by the parching heat, though the
ants had assisted.
*** * •
“Wai-hoi”: A murder of Malays by Bowen
Straits (N.T.) natives took place 40 years
ago near Lake Brogden, on the northern
coast of Arnhem Land. A proa, with a
crew of six Malays from the Aru Islands,
was wrecked offshore. The little easterners
reached land with some of their stores and
gear and were met on the beach by blacks.
By signs, the Malays got the darkies to
savey that they wanted to be taken to Bowen
Straits, where at that time old E. O. Robin-
son (Buffalo Bill) was stationed as Customs
officer. The castaways were armed with
revolvers and knives, and with the natives
carrying some of the boxes from the wreck
a start was made by the black and brown
company on the long tramp to Bowen
Straits. Wandy-Wandy, a big blackfellow,
was the villain of the piece, for on the men
reaching a big cabbage-palm swamp a halt
was called, and the Malays listened to a
long conclave, not suspecting that ways and
means of passing them out were being dis-
cussed. On the march again, the abos.
suddenly disarmed the Malays and killed
them. Three of the bodies were buried in
one hole. That part of the pleasantry
over, the blacks, returned and burned the
wreck of the proa. When the murderers got
back to their tribal camp the lubras wanted
to know where all the gay-colored sarongs
and other treasures had come from. One
darkie told his fiancee, she told some of the
other women, and that settled their hash, for
news eventually filtered into Darwin. Old
Inspector Foelsche and Alfred Searcy, with
a Government party, went down the coast
and had a blackfellow parade. Later on
Wandy-Wandy was executed at Bowen
Straits before a crowded abo. audience. His
companions in the grim business did long
terms in Darwin Gaol.
>■: ❖ * *
“E.S.S.” : New settlers in timbered areas
should take warning from the prodigal
patriarchs of N. S. Wales, who are now
paying heavily for the destruction of the
great forests and jungles on the mid-east-
ern rivers, containing immense quantities
of the finest woods in the world. On places
where at one time there was scarcely build-
ing room for standing trees, firewood is
carted from miles away, fencing and shed-
building are expensive, and shade trees for
cattle have to be planted. Here and there
one sees the remains of cedar sheds and fenc-
ing—relics of the wealth of red cedar that
was destroyed or wasted in the blind hurry
to grow grass and pumpkins. Some people
on those once richly-timbered lands have now
to get building material from distant mills
and from Sydney—and Sydney gets a lot
of it from Norway, Puget Sound, Russia
and elsewhere. Yet the lunacy is being
continued —in. the Dorrigo and Tweed dis-
tricts, and in Queensland, where miles of
fine scrub timbers are being burnt, off to
grow bananas and pineapples. The settler
clears off everything, assuring himself that
there is plenty for his time just outside
the fence, but when the surrounding blocks
THE INSTRUCTION OF RICHARD JOHN.
WILLIAN HENRY: “Time I was workin' down to Horseshoe for Cap'n Dick, I found
piece weighin’ 32 ounces.”
RICHARD JOHN: “My word, Cap'n Dick ’e be braave an’ pleased for ’e to bring lump
gold like that to ’e.”
WILLIAM HENRY: “Ah, Richard, ma son, soon as I clapped eyes on that lump gold I
know who ’e belonged to.”
are taken up and treated likewise, he finds
himself in a desert so far as timber is con-
cerned.
* * :]! *
“Vil N.”: Hearing that the quack had
given up old Burrybales, of Cundalong, Mrs.
Auria Digger, a
young (well,
four-toothed, any-
way) widow,
went over to do
what she could.
Not because he
was rich, which
he was —Cunda-
long had only
two mortgages on
it—but because
no softer-hearted
woman ever wore
short skirts.
Burr ybales so
benefited by her
ministrations that
the quack had to
pronounce hi m
convalescent. He
ordered chicken
broth. Auria said
she hated killing
cliooks, but she
would exterminate
the feat here!
creation if “it
would do dear
Mr. Burrybales
good.” Then she
went and laid a
superannuated
rooster by the
spurs and across
the chop ping-
block. When he
heard it squawk
Burrybales could
already taste the
broth. Came an-
other choked
squawk ! A third !
He sat up. The
fourth brought
him out of bed.
Before he could
totter to and
drag open the
window he heard
a fifth and sixth
squa-awk! “Aur-
eeah !” he howled,
“wot th’ blazes
are you doing to
that fowl?” “Oh,
dear !” she explained, smiling bravely through
her tears and still chopping timidly at the
half-severed neck, “I am only killing it
gently!”
* * * *
“Linda”: “Mako’s” M.L. apiarist who had
to recompense the owners of horses which
his bees had stung to’ death (B. 9/12/’3l)
wrnsn’t the only one. The ease with which
a few bees can turn a big, strong horse into
a swollen corpse has often made me marvel.
I once saw a fine Clydesdale colt gallop
beneath the overhanging limbs of a red-gum
in which was a colony of wild bees. The
colt shook the hollow limb in which their
colony was located, the bees guarding the
entrance set on to him, and an hour later he
was dead, with about 20 stings in him,
mostly around the eyes. But there’s another
side to this business. Some horses become
immune to bee poison, and one of the
biggest curses which can afflict an apiarist
is a horse which has developed a craving
for honey. Nothing stops the brute. He
comes to the apiary at night, knocks the
cover off a hive with his nose, then shoves
the super off, seizes a comb with his teeth
and races away with it. Pie may get
dozens of stings, but that won’t make him
drop the comb. As soon as he is clear of the
apiary he eats it, wax and wooden frame
included, and goes back for another.
* * *
“Cooramin” : Some years ago a good find
of tantalite was made near Darwin, but the
stone was either ignored or thrown away as
worthless. The ore was little known any-
where at the time, but many uses are now
being found for the metal, and it should be
well worth mining. Tantalite’s special value
hitherto has been for tipping surgical and
dental instruments, but its range is continu-
ally widening, and it is found to be 'as good
as platinum for any purpose for which that
metal is used. Being non-corrosive, it is
particularly valuable for lining vessels that
have to contain acids. At present a great
part of the world’s supply of tantalite
comes from deposits in north-west Aus-
tralia, and its occurrence near Darwin leads
to the supposition that it may be found over
a long stretch of that part of the country.
❖ ❖ ❖ ijc
“Dick the Fossicker”: “Mulgo” is all at
sea when he thinks that the men he saw
lying with their pipes in their mouths and
their heads pillowed on their swags had
died of thirst (B. 30/12/’81). I’ve been
pretty close to the finish with thirst myself,
and have seen many men who have perished
from thirst, and the signs are unmistakable.
The tongue is swollen, black, cracked, and it
protrudes, and the whole body has a dried
and shrivelled appearance which will never
be forgotten by anyone who has seen it.
The tracks of the sufferer tell their own
story, too. First he makes for any hollow
PROOF.
“Gam, yer dirty dog—everybody knows yer bit yer wife’s ear orf.”
“I never did. I’m a wegetarian.”
or belt of trees which gives a faint hope of
finding water; then he wanders about, mad
with suffering, in an aimless way, generally,
but not always, shedding his clothes; next,
he falls over and crawls about scratching
at the earth, and then death ends the agony.
The sensations, as I know them, are, first, a
horrible craving for a drink; then your
mouth, nose and throat become like old
leather and pain dreadfully; the tongue
swells up like a hard and dry bladder; your
thickening blood can no longer produce per-
spiration to cool the skin, giving rise to
sensations like that of being in a burning
fever, and presently you remember no more.
In my case I regained my senses to find a
mob of blacas tipping down my throat some
muddy and stinking water from a hole
which I had passed without seeing. In
the case of the men whom “Mulgo” saw
death must have been caused either by a
heart attack or heat-stroke.
$-* $ *
“Semut”; In a play called “The Ladder
of Life,” a number of athletic young men
formed themselves into a ladder by which
the persecuted heroine escaped to safety.
The idea of such a living chain must be
older than man. The fierce kooringa ant
of the Malay Peninsula builds his nest
amongst the leaves of the trees by its aid.
Selecting a broad, flat leaf as a base for the
hoipe, one of the workers attaches himself
to an edge and allows his body to hang
down into space. A second one crawls
down and clasps the first one round the
waist with his mandibles, a third does ditto
to the second, and so on until a ladder is
formed to the next leaf, to which the last
one in the chain attaches himself. By
shortening their grips on each other the
ants pull the leaves together, one ant dropping
out of the chain at intervals as his services
are no longer required. When the leaves are
touching a second gang cements the two
leaves together. This process is repeated
until a spherical cluster of leaves about six
inches in diameter is formed. In this the
eggs are deposited, together with grubs, in-
sects, etc., to feed the young when they are
hatched.
“Math” : Fishermen have always been at
loggerheads how to deal with an octopus,
but a Hawaiian native showed a party a
new method at Onetangi (M.L.) the other
day. He caught its head above the eyes
with his bare hands and pulled its mouth
over its nose, causing suffocation. The
octopus had a span of 10ft. when its ten-
tacles were extended.
GROUND GAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“This tin-hare fuss,” asserted Gus, our cook,
“is getting nauseous;
In Parliament itself, I read, it’s raised a
devil of a din.
The name don’t fit” —he paused to spit—
“there ain’t a scrap of hare in it.
The row, as far as I can see, begins and
finishes with tin.
“The hare you roast or jug, by ghost! he
makes a dish that any host
Could set before a king himself, with
currant jelly for a whet.
But this here name is just a frame; this
hare’s another sort of game,
And whosoever’s skinned or jugged you
bet it won’t be leveret.
“Ground game, my oath!” profanely quoth
our poisoner, “they called ’em both,
In Wiltshire w r hen I was a boy, the
blinkin’ rabbits an' the hares ;
Though these would creep through warrens
deep, and those about the uplands leap
And never into burrows pop—the open
fields and downs were theirs.
“But hares,” said Gus, “like they discuss,
these chaps w r ho make the law's for us,
They’re not the sort, it’s obvious, that
fall to fowling-piece or hound;
They bring to mind, I’m more inclined to
tell you blokes, the rabbit kind.
The business, if half what’s said is true,
is mostly underground !”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station ),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms " 200 Baths
3.5 ■
II
Li! n
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel.
Tariff per day:
Room and meals from
Room and Breakfast from
22/6
12/6
BIG ADVERTISERS use
this great paper.... exclusively
The Brisbane “Courier” is read in every corner of Queensland
read for its authentic news, its authoritative articles, and for its
sound guidance on all public questions. Big advertisers know this:
they invariably use the Brisbane “Courier”—sometimes ex-
clusively. In 1931 the “Courier” carried at least 160,000 inches
more advertising than its morning rival: it carried almost as
much as two other Brisbane dailies together. Be guided by those
FACTS—largest circulation—widest coverage in city and country.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s Leading Daily Newspaper—Established 1846.
Representative: ROBERT D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. (B 5007.)
I
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
fhe Australian Art Exhibition
~THE MACLEOD GALLERY^
ißu I let i n~!?u ild in qs 1
i 252 Georqe Street.
<0> s
See announcement page 13.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
SMOKE-OH!
It is strange that we don’t say “bough-
wow,”
Since the branch of a tree is a bough;
Though a ivord such as trough
Makes a■ poor rhyme with rough,
Yet I still think a cough is a cow.
* *
Japan may have to drop China without
breaking it.
* *
“She is 20, her wealthy swain nearly 50.”
—“Sun.”
Another of these golden weddings.
¥ *
“The mysterious animal that has been prowling
near Yackandandah is said to have attacked a man,
tearing the shirt off his back.”— “Herald.”
That settles the brute’s identity—it's a
bookie.
* *
“Dr. Lodewyckx, of Melbourne University, said
that an Iceland citizen remarked to him of N. S.
Wales: ‘Oh, yes, that’s where the people don’t pay
their debts.’ ”
And it’s all Lang’s D — fault.
AND NOW SHE’S MADAM.
“What a lovely name you have!"
“Well, if you like it, take it!”
“More and more Japanese are offering for military
service.”
Hence its new name; the Land of the
Rising ’Shun.
* *
HAIL AND FAREWELL!
“A Queensland resident recently sent to the
Federal Treasurer two gold articles as a gift
‘towards the liquidation of the national debt.’ ”
—"S. M. Herald.”
Let’s visualise the future. Hon. H’owler
Bagowind, Federal Treasurer, faces a House
tense with expectancy. In a voice trembling
with emotion he announces that Australia is
two gold studs on the right side of the
budget. (Deaf ening
cheers from the Govern-
ment benches.)
The papers rush out
extra editions. The “S.
M. Herald” says the
studs are a smashing
answer to Langism. The
“Labor Daily” suggests
bitterly that Otto and
the London bloodsuckers
are behind the whole
sorry business. The
“Telegraph” interview's
every limelighting cleric
in N. S. Wales on the
moral aspect of gold
studs in national finance ;
and Eric Campbell
promotes 150 members
of the New Guard to
the rank of Brigadier.
Alas! Bagowind’s
hour of triumph is all
too brief. Lang defaults
next day to the extent
of a pair of underpants
and a bag of golf-clubs,
worth in the sum much
more than the studs. Once again Australia’s
name is Mud.
“The man who refuses to give conscientious work
naturally gravitates to prison.”— “S. M. Herald.”
In other words if his work isn’t O.K. its
Oakum.
“Mr. Lyons has welcomed Mr. Bruce by getting
him out of the way.” —“Labor Call.”
The scheme is to make him feel at Home.
MAKING IT CLEAR.
“I can tell them definitely and distinctly that
no man supporting the Government of New South
Wales is for sale.” —Premier Lang.
But why not put it on a proper business
footing?
PUBLIC NOTICE.
I, S. Tinhare, M.L.A., ‘having disposed of
my vote by tender, beg to notify all interested
that same is now withdrawn from the
market.
To Candidates for Pre-selection, etc., etc.
My safe Federal seat, which I won on
the understanding that I would hand it over
to the right man at the right time, is Form-
ally Withdrawn from Sale. A firm buyer has
come along who wishes to enter Federal
politics when his State job gets too hot for
him. He has made the necessary arrange-
ments with me and no rival offers will bo
entertained. I am definitely Not for Sale.
(Sgd.) Bill Chairwarmer, M.H.R.
* *
“The Northern Firth is on the rocks on the
South Coast of N. S. Wales.”— “Age.”
Being in New South Wales, isn’t there
some doubt as to whether this should be
classed as “news”?
RATIONED.
“Better have half a loaf than none.”
I simply don’t agree.
My half-time loaf has just begun —
It’s far too much for me!
X- *
“A film was recently taken, depicting the Prince
of Wales a s a landlord.”
Yet the girls complain that he’s still not
one of the landed gentry.
THE CONJURER.
“And, Henry, please do try not to make me look so
small as you did the last time we went to the De
Burghs.”
And what of the real heroes of the Chino-
Japanese war—the poor devils of wireless
announcers who have to pronounce the place-
names?
* *
SUCCESS.
The prodigal son tapped confidently on the
door.
“Who’s thar?” bellowed his father.
“Me, dad. Your prodigal son.”
“Anybody else?”
“Yes, Dad. A prodigal wife and ten
prodigal kids.”
“Gerrout!”
“Don’t be a goat. I am now drawing
A-scale ration on the dole as well as child-
hood endowment.”
“Come in!” yelled the old gentleman
joyously.. “And to think that your mother
said you’d never do any good for yourself!”
They have been living on fatted calf ever
since.
* *
Touching that argument about the best
name for the Harbor Bridge, we have a
notion that the most commonly used will bo
the one we heard Smith, who lives on the
North Shore, give it when he got his last
account for the special rates.
* *
The latest vogue in Japanese art runs to
designs on China.
Epitaph found on a Darlinghurst tomb-
stone :
His life had been so full of crime
That at the hanging function grim
Folks said it was the only time
That people had looked up to him.
ANIMALS NOT SEEN AT THE ZOO.
Tin hare.—Very common in Sydney. Once
believed to be extinct, but now plentiful.
Profitable to keep; for one thing it has
never been seen to eat. Nocturnal in habits.
Said by some to be a pest. An open season
may be declared after the next State elec-
tions.
Land shark. —A queer fish found chiefly
near G.P.O.’s. Has a rich appearance, and
keeps up an endless chatter. Can turn
quickly, and has a habit of disappearing
when least expected. Enormous appetite and
astounding thirst. Has many tales.
Flaming cow.—An animal of the Aus-
tralian backblocks. According to drovers
sheep, cattle, horses, dingoes, dogs, crows and
politicians are all flaming cows. There are
several varieties, e.g., B. flaming cows and
8.8. flaming cows.
ONE IN A THOUSAND.
“You Sydney business men seem a modest
lot on the whole,” said the visitor; “very
different from what I’d been led to believe.
But I’ve met
one or two in-
fernally arro-
gant ones.
That chap
Nubbin, for
example.”
“You mean
Horace Nub-
bin?”
“Yes. There
he is over the
way. You’d
think he was
a film star or
something.”
“I’ll admit
Nubbin’s pride
is sickening,
but you’ve got
to recognise
that he has
some justifi-
cation for it.”
“He looks
ordinary
enough to me.”
“Man, he’s
one in a thou-
sand—a phe-
nomenon !”
“What do
“AN AMERICAN
TRAGEDY.”
The point about this is that
the talkie part of the pic-
ture has gone on strike,
but the artist couldn’t
illustrate that, of course.
you mean —‘phenomenon’? I thought he was
in the softgoods business.”
“When you criticise Horace Nubbin, I’d
have you know you’re criticising the only
householder of his suburb who has consist-
ently refused to serve on a committee in
connection with the Bridge celebrations!”
¥ H-
“Defendant earned £6OO a year but spent most
of it on girls.”
His profit-and-lass account.
* *
The N. S. Wales optimist who meant to
retire on his winnings from AVhiddon’s lot-
tery has got discouraged by the long odds.
ITis latest scheme is to persuade Premier
Lang to let him in on the tin-hare racket.
DARLINGHURST NOCTURNE.
Dawn is still afar; in the shadow of a
doorway Mrs. McSlather stares at the flat
opposite. Silhouetted against a blind is the
figure of a woman dancing on a
table. Mrs. M. recognises the
profile of Mr. McSlather, hears
liis applause of the wanton who
has enslaved him, and gets out
her automatic.
Suddenly from a near-by alley
two men spring on her. A bottle
crashes on to her skull. “Blast
it!” mutters Jim Bludson, the
Underworld King. “It’s the
wrong dame again !” “Stiff luck!”
replies his companion. “Come
on!” They drop the corpse and
creep on a sleeping policeman.
Silence. Nothing is heard for a while, but
an occasional tap at a window, the crash of
breaking bottles, the screams of women.
Dawn reddens in the east. A raucous cry
is heard. “Razors ground and set for a
bob.” Frank Sluggem, the Underworld
Emperor, wheels in a barrow containing
a whetting-stone.
Silence once more. Somewhere a window
is thrown up and a girl screams, “Help!
I’ve been doped!” Her stifled appeal is
followed by a sinister quiet.
Sunrise.
A motor-van moves slowly down the street.
“Bring out your dead!” cries the masked
driver. Occasionally a dull thud can be heard
as a body is heaved into the back of the
vehicle. The driver alights to collect the
corpse of Mrs. McSlather. At the corner,
a man on a balcony cries, “Here you are!”
and flings a section of what was once a stal-
wart police inspector into the van. The
driver is about to proceed when he hears a
cry, “Wait on! More to come !” Two arms
Racing Terms Explained.—“Up Before the Stewards.”
and a head follow. “That all?” asks the
driver. “That’s all to-day, thanks.” And
the van moves on.
And now the G.P.O. clock may be heard
striking eight. The residents rush for the
city-bound trams at the Cross. Another
day has begun.
“Off the courts, the Japanese tennis-players dress
perfectly.” —Tenuis gossip note.
We had expected something like Satoh-rial
perfection!
PUTTING HIM IN HTS PLACE.
Yesterday I went with a friend to referee
the purchase of a new car. A beautiful lad
with varnished hair and ivory hands greeted
us and concentrated on me.
“Now this,” he fluted, “is the latest model
Sotto Voce- Costly, I grant, but worth every
penny of the price. You, sir, as an experi-
enced motorist, will observe that it is fitted
with the new Wumming gongbadger, geared
from a plummet-winched gummiter, which is
connected with a plus-differential and .set in
motion by a Lobson dynamic slugger on the
feed-arm of the actuating blobber.”
“Of course.”
“Further, the steering pillar has hollow-
ground turning sheaves, actuated by inter-
locking garbage valves, and a revolving con-
vex snudge-box, which does away with the
lubrication. The engine is triple-gove with
a highly atomised drubbin-pipe, connected by
a reversing guammit-pin and a Vumson
thrupple yaffle.”
“I noticed that at once.”
“A dial on the instrument
board,” he proceeded, “regis-
ters blood-pressure, strength of
grip and height above sea-
level. Instead of being, as in
most cars of this type, worked
directly from the driving-band
of the peptonised nodular
metabolism, it has patent
Oofer Snogweaves on the
chassis, with a three-four
pringling-fan, so that the ump-
meter may be readily detached.
You see the tremendous advan-
tage this gives in power, drive
and downstroke?”
“Naturally.”
“In addition to the lounge
seats, and the wardrobe under
the fire-proof booby-liatch,” he
went on, “some useful little
accessories are provided for
out-back work. For instance,
there is a collapsible har-
monium, a mah-jongg cabinet,
containing a Book of Common
Prayer and the Rules of Con-
tract Bridge, a cleverly-con-
trived combined trouser-presser
and egg-boiler, two aluminium
spittoons, and a hatrack, a
pencil-sharpener, a law n-
mower, and a complete set of
the ‘Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica.’ ”
“All this is very well,” I
said disparagingly, “but I
observe that this model has no
Norker patent nakleplug geared to the faffer
case, nor is the central chuffbody of the mag-
neto slide attached to the toofbrush of the co-
ordinated bupp condensers, to prevent any
backlash of the forehand drive.”
“Er —er —er” he murmured defen-
sively.
“Moreover,” I insisted, “there seems to be
no sympathetic complex of the ganglions;
and, to cap it all, the sublimated ego is miss-
ing from the forward noggin-stud in the reflex
peripheral. And what about the guffering
of the pipple-strainer?”
That settled him. He was glad, a quar-
ter of an hour later, to sell my friend a
used Ford (1928 model) on the t.-p. system.
NORBELL.


AS EW SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
A Maltese charwoman has broken the
banking record. She opened a “bank” in the
squalid island of many assorted card-
sliarpers, and accepted deposits at five per
cent, per week —interest payable weekly.
NOT A MODERATE DRINKER.
BROWN : “I saw Smithy the other day, and
he looked pretty bad.”
JONES: “Always does look bad. Drinks too
much.”
BROWN: “You surprise me! I understood
that he was not drinking any more.”
JONES: “I should hope not! If he did he’d
drown himself.”
[Alf Vincent.— 27/8/92.]
The business boomed till the deposits reached
£lOO,OO0 —then it burst; assets, one dirty
old woman and a mattress. She simply took
deposits in a hovel, with the windows stuffed
with brown paper and rags, and paid the
interest out as long as any money came in.
She didn’t even buy herself a new frock out
of the proceeds; she didn’t float a single com-
pany, or invest the money in anything; as
it came in she put it in a barrel, and the
wretched old banker even lost her sleep at
nights sitting up to see that nobody ran
away with the barrel. She didn’t know that
there was anything unsound in her financial
system until one day when she got doAvn to
the bottom of the vat, in looking for the
money to pay the interest on a deposit, and
ascertained that she was stone-broke; and
even then she couldn’t realise lioav on earth
the thing came to pass, hut concluded the
bank was possessed by a devil. [2l/l/’93.]
I [Sappho Smith] hehr that it was dis-
mally funny on the morning the Federal Bank
failed to see the demeanor of the “society”
depositors (especially the feminine variety),
who thought that in a bank smash, as in a
social function, you can be smuggled in some-
how before the doors are open and have first
pick of what’s going if you happen to be
Anybody. When you know the manager in
his evening-dress moments and everything
has been so pleasant, it’s quite to be ex-
pected that he will at least hand you out
your little nest-egg without any fuss —no
matter how impossible he may find it to pay
the ordinary mob which bangs on the coun-
ter and doesn’t burst into the sanctum. To
give the gentlemen their due, they, I believe,
restricted their illegal endeavor to get ahead
of the rest by putting their excited formula
in a feeling way: “I suppose you can’t get.
my cash out of the affair?” But the ladies
were more beseeching, and resorted to little
sobs, deep sighs and the usual gentle arts
which, while they often succeeded in getting
money out of the pockets of the male indi-
vidual, fall off companies like water off a
duck. One society lady, of rather mature
attractions, who came to pluck her banking
account out of the burning, had designedly
hacked herself up with a pretty girl, in the
hope, presumably, that the manager’s heart
might be melted left-handedly. “Am I not
to get my money?” (with a 40-li.p. em-
phasis on the I), she said in a high voice,
rushing in upon the manager, closely fol-
lowed by her decoy-duck. “You know you
can pay me if you like! Won’t you pay
me?” And then, as the poor man perforce
remained obdurate, she plumped on to a
chair. “I shall stay here till I get. my
money,” she almost screamed. “I know
you’ve got it in the safe there, and I won’t
stir until you give it to me!” But, of
course, she didn’t get it. It’s not a hit of
use being pretty by proxy. [lB/2/’93.]
When Nelson McLean, of London (now at
work on a bust of the late millionaire
Walker, of Concord, Sydney), received the
commission for a statue of Peter Lalor, for
Melbourne, Graham Berry told him that
Lalor had only one arm, but he couldn’t say
for certain which, although he had for years
been his friend and colleague. Mr. McLean
then applied to the present writer, who told
him what he thought was the fact, but
advised him to consult Heaton’s “Men of the
Time.” This was done, and it was found
that Peter had lost his right arm. There
was a second reference, however, in the book,
and, on looking it up, it was found to be
stated that the left arm was missing, and
when Heaton, who is supposed to be a kind
of Australian encyclopaedia, was referred to,
he first said one thing and then another. The
completion of the statue was thus delayed for
some time. It seems strange, yet it is true,
that amongst all Lalor’s friends in England,
nobody seemed to know positively which of
his arms was missing. After this, what is
the value of the evidence of the average -wit-
ness? [IS/2/’93.]
Story told by Lorimer Fison, the veteran
Fiji missionary. Some 35 years ago lie con-
verted a young chief, who, as time went on,
developed into an apparently earnest Chris-,
tian. He taught in the schools and preached
on Sundays, and for 30 years made no slip
from the path of virtue. But his hour of
temptation came. He lost a valuable pig,
whereupon he fell upon his knees and prayed
the white man’s God to help him in his
quest. Then girded he up his loins and
searched, but in Amin—also the next day, and
the next. On the fourth day, after his usual
supplication, he went forth and explored the
hush far and near. At length, wearied and
despondent, he turned his steps homeward,
sind note how Satan ever puts temptation
in the way of the unwary! His road led
past a “Devil Devil” tree, the home of an
ancient Fiji god, whom in liis youth he had
worshipped. For a moment he paused be-
fore it and thought. The white man’s God
had not helped him in liis sore straits not-
withstanding his prayers; peradventure the
god of liis fathers would have pity on him.
Straightway he lit the sacred fire, and peeled
off the white man’s clothes, then danced lie
wild and furiously, and yelled his awful
prayers. Exhausted with the fervency of
liis devotions he at length resumed his way.
but had not proceeded far ere he found the
long-lost pig. He took the grunter home,
and having placed it in safety, tore off liis
clothes and anointed his person with pig-
ments of many hues. Then, tying a tapa
round his loins, Avent lie forth to interview
Mr. Fison. In the calm of that tropic even-
ing the good missionary saw a sight Avhich
for many a year he had not beheld—a naked,
painted Fijian dancing tOAvards his house.
As the fantastic form came nearer and
nearer, the missionary recognised with horror
and amazement his favorite pupil and friend.
Up danced the Fijian, indignation in many
colors expressed on every portion of his
person. When close to Mr. Fison he stopped,
and, regarding him with a look of lofty con-
tempt, lie proceeded to speak: “What name !
Long time man missionary make him fool
belonga man Fiji. All time you tell him
suppose he want-him something, God be-
longa white man He give him. Suppose him
sick, God make him all right suppose him
pray good fellow: suppose him lose-liim
something, God give him good-fellow eye
belonga find him. That fellow talk lie no
good, he all same d —d lie, me savvy. Me
lose-him big fellow pig, me pray belonga
God He find him: mo go look, me no find
him; three-fellow day me pray and me look
plenty, me no catch him pig. To-day me
been pray, then me go look, me walk, walk,
walk plenty, me no find him that fellow pig.
By-and-bye me go Devil Devil place belong
old-fellow god belong man Fiji. Me pray
alonga him small fellow, me go away and
me find him pig plenty quick. God belonga
you He no —■ — good, He no savvy find him
pig, He savvy nothing” The indignant
chief spat contemptuously on the ground,
marched off, and was never seen in either
church or school again.
Ignorance of the soulful nature and com-
plicated working parts of the domestic hen
leads many men to conjecture that she would
be cheerful and debonair in captivity if sup-
plied with three meals of seven courses per
day, and would remain robust and able-
bodied, and increase her bulk till it became
extensive enough to afford a Christmas feast
for a grown family of nine; the physical
debility and deep religious melancholy of the
fowl so saved up are sufficient proof that this
system of training is a rank failure. To build
a Cliistmas hen of satisfactory proportions
and healthy tone, care should be taken to
divest the bird’s mind of any notion of its
pending fate. Nothing has such a depressing
effect upon poultry as the knowledge that
its obesity is being cultivated merely to
afford a brief grati-
fication to a carnal-
minded monster.
The songster should
be let off the chain
at least once a day,
and taken for a
run round the
square. Tepid foot-
baths and light far-
inaceous suppers
before retiring will
be found beneficial.
Toast and light
boiled eggs for
breakfast, and a
simple, wholesome,
hot dinner of not.
more than five
dishes is the most
salubrious fare for
an able-bodied hen.
It is advisable to
keep a groom,
otherwise the fowl
is apt to become
squalid, shed her
coat, and acquire
various skin dis-
eases. A medical
man of light and
leading should be
in constant attend-
ance, and the bird’s
bed should be aired
regularly. If this
prescription be accurately followed, a fine,
big-boned, upstanding hen may result, and
when Christmas eve comes, and it is stolen
by a Chinaman, the legitimate owner can
congratulate himself on the probability that
the heathen will be choked.
ADVTS. IN VERSE.
A little while ago I started to supplement
my meagre journalistic income by writing
advts. in verse, and accordingly arranged
with a fool-canvasser to divide profits, the
bargain being that I should write the advts.
and that he should sell them. For a few
FIRST BUSINESS, THEN PLEASURE.
THE OLD LADY: “Three-penn’orth o’ rum,
please, Miss. But, please, would you
gimme a drink o’ water first — I’m
thirsty."
[Tom Durkin .—11/2/’93.]
months things went well and we halved many
guineas (I always write advts. for guineas
—not pounds).
Sudcess at last turned the head of my can-
vasser, who began doing the whole business
himself. But he made the mistake of believ-
ing that all lines —could be advertised in
verse, and this belief caused his fall.
H'is first mistake, was in the case of a
piano-manufacturing firm. He had led them
to believe that he was an advertising expert,
and they signed a fat contract and told him
to draft the advts. for the first issue. Imagine
the horror of this conservative firm when it
read the following in the dailies a few days
later
Shout, Hosanna! Loud, Hosanna!
Sharp and Flatty’s New Piatina
Has become the rage;
Frame is made in newest manner—■
Fifty pounds the price, Hosanna!
Wonder of the age.
Of course, the piano firm cancelled their
contract.
But his real punishment was to come. You
must know that Melbourne City Council sell
the blood-product of the municipal abattoirs
as a soil-fertiliser. What then does this luna-
tic do but send to the Town Clerk the dog-
gerel quoted below, accompanied by a.pro-
posal for advertising! Here is what the ex-
canvasser described in his letter as a poem:—
If you want to raise tomatoes of gargantuan size,
or wheat;
Or the multifarious fruits and grains that men and
women eat;
If you want to raise a hog who’ll turn the scale
at fifty stone;
If you want to be a millionaire and a million farm-
steads own,
Use blood !
Try blood !
The produce of the bullock who falls down with a
thud.
Bcrlud!
Berlud!
It will sweeten all your pastures so your cows can
chew the cud.
When you reap in golden autumn the pumpkins from
the vine,
Remember that the blood-manure grows pasture for
the kine;
When you gather in the vernal spring the ’taters
from the tree,
Don’t disregard the fact that blood manure’s the best
for ye.
Use blood!
Blue blood
Of the ami-ocratic heifer who once chewed the
clover cud.
Ho! blood!
Blue blood!
When the pasture or your garden’s barren, try our
blood!
The council wanted to try the ex-canvasser’s
blood. But they couldn’t legally get it, so
they did the next best tiling—they gaoled him
for attempting to obtain money by means of
false pretences. I was curious to know in
what the “false pretences” consisted, and
have just discovered that my ex-canvasser
tried to pass off bis blood-verse as having
come from the pen of that great poet ex-
Town-Clerk Fitz Gibbon. It would have
passed muster, too, had. a junior clerk, a Uni-
versity student, not remarked that it had
really been written by Parlies. Then inquiries
were instituted, and the real poet is now
sitting in Melbourne, gaol vainly trying to
think of something to rhyme with “three
months.” But you can no more rhyme with
“months” than you can with “orange.”
I now enjoy the sole monopoly of writing
Melbourne advts. in verse. (P.S. —This is
an advt. —Ed. B.)
[ll/3/’93.] Randolph Bedfobd.
THE NIGHTINGALE.
When the moon a golden-pale
Lustre on my casement flings,
An enchanted nightingale
In the haunted silence sings.
And my mem’ry dimly gropes,
Hints to gather, from her song,
Of forgotten fears and hopes,
Joys and griefs forgotten long.
And I feel once more the strife
Of a passion, fierce and grand.
That, in some long-vanished life,
Burnt out in an ancient land.
Ah, my love, in robes of white
Standing by the moonlit sea,
Like a lily of the night,
Hast thou quite forgotten me?
Dost tliou never dream at whiles
Of that silent, templed vale,
And the dim wood in whose aisles
Sang a secret nightingale?
Whither hast thou gone? What star
Holds thy spirit pure and fine?
In this world below there are
None like thee: and thou wert mine!
For a season all things last,
Love and Joy, and Life and Death;
Thou art portion of my past,
I'of thine, whilst Time draws breath.
Fades the moonlight golden-pale,
And the birds have ceased to sing—
Ah, it was no nightingale,
But my heart —remembering.
[l6/12/’93.]
VICTOR J. DALEY.
TRUE TILL DEATH.
A heated discussion was proceeding as I
rode up to the slab-built Kangaroo Camp
Hotel. A policeman and five or six others
on the verandah were all talking at once,
and seemed to be abusing one who sat on a
stone a little way off. He was a feeblc-
looking old fellow, and had evidently been
drinking, for bis hands were shaky and
his eyes were bloodshot. But lie was de-
fending himself fluently, and with the grati-
fied air of a man who knew he had done
his duty.
“Me do a thing like that to Bill!” he
was saying. “Why, Bill an’ me was mates
40 years ago. We was at Tambaroora to-
gether. We was at Lambing Flat together,
me an’ Bill, an’ Bendigo an’ on the Palmer.
I’ve knowed Bill since he was a nipper, so
high! An’ Bill never did nothing mean to
me. An’ you think I’d go now an’ inter-
fere with Bill! You ain’t no better than a
lot of things, you ain’t!”
I stabled my horse, and walked in through
the hack to the parlor, and there, at full
length on the table, was a dead man. He
RIVALS.
THE FAVORED ONE: “He says he loves me
so that he could eat me.”
THE SLIGHTED ONE: “I daresay he’d try
you on a dog first.”
[A. J. Fischer. —22/10/’92]
was fully dressed, and his face was purple.
I went "outside promptly to the verandah
and the policeman explained.
“This old bloke and him inside have been
on the booze here for a fortnight, and the
other one he got the horrors, and hung him-
self to-day with his saddle-strap. These coves
here found him hanging, quite dead, and there
was this old tug sitting on a box alongside,
calmly looking on! And he says he saw
the cove hang himself and watched him
struggling”
“Yes,” said the old man, “Bill did jump
about a bit.”
“Watched him kick and jump and play
up for I don’t know how'.long, and the
barmy old fool—lie must be barmy—never
told anybody, nor cut him down, nor noth-
ing!”
This started the old man again.
“Me cut him down! Me! Bill’s old
mate! Don’t I tell yon Bill an’ me’s been
mates for 40 year? Me interfere with old
Bill! Not me! Bill wasn’t the sort of
man to turn dog on an old mate, and I
ain’t neither. An’ Bill and me was always
good friends. I noo Bill before any of you
coves was born. Why, I knew his father /”
[l6/12/’93.]
A. CHEE.


The Famous National C.C.M.
3 and 5-Valve Battery Receivers
America
Hawaii
Manila
Indo-China
New Zealand
A WONDERFUL RECORD
v.y.
m
m
m
xK
x>:
South Africa
India
Japan
China
Australia
Certified Receptions from 8 Countries in the World
National C.C.M. “3”
BATTERY OPERATED
Console, £21/12/6
National “3” All-Electric
(Including Rectifier).
■■ I m
Price, £18/17/6, complete.
Have been received on this Famous Brand
WITHOUT the use of a Short-wave Adaptor.
Write for “PROOF.”
m
mm
m
£. I
National C.C.M. “3” Table Model, New Price
£18/126
A Few Copies of Testimonials of Our Battery-operated Sets.
Mr. John Williams, Proserpine, North
Queensland:
I have got New Zealand, South Africa,
California, Honolulu, Manila, Japan and
other stations on your C.C.M. “3”. I am
more than satisfied.
Mr. Li, A. Li. Peterson, Normanton, Gulf,
August 28, 1930:
I am pleased to advise that the C.C.M.
3-valve set is still giving satisfaction, and
during the recent Test matches have never
failed "once to get the stumps-drawn scores
from 3LO Melbourne at seven o’clock in
the morning.
Mr. J. Armstrong, Gin Gin:
I am perfectly satisfied with the set.
Wonderful results. Auckland. New Zea-
land, Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Bris-
bane, perfect reception.
Extract of letter received from E. K. Smith,
Cooper’s Shoot, Byron Bay:
The Five-valve C.C.M. set arrived 0.K.,
and under test it proved itself an ideal set
for country conditions, giving three or four
American stations at good strength in the
early evening. I listened for two hours to
IvFOX (California), which was coming in
at B-class strength. This set is also a
good daylight receiver. These results may
be of some interest to you.
Copy of letter received from Mr. J. P.
Corcoran, Helldon: .
It is with pleasure I have to advise
having received the C.C.M. Five-valve Re-
ceiver in good order. The set is function-
ing very well, and nil Australian and New
Zealand stations come in on full loud-
speaker strength with beautiful tone. The
set indeed offers value for the price, and I
can recommend it wholeheartedly to any
intending purchaser.
Extract of letter received from Robt. C.
Adams, Grantham, Surat, dated June 23,
I might state I am very well pleased
with the volume of the National Screen
Grid “5,” as I have heard Los Angeles
(California) at 10.30 p.m., loud-speaker.
Mr. W. J. O. Clarke, Baralba:
The C.C.M. 3-valve set is still giving good
results. I have been able to listen in to
the Epsom, Metropolitan, Caulfield and
Moonee Valley Cup, all on loud-speaker in
the daytime; so that’s pretty decent for a
3-valve set, isn’t it?
Mr. A. McEaren, Toowoomba, who uses the
C.C.M. writes:
I have received reception from India,
Japan, Hawaii, China, Philippine Islands,
America, Indo-China, Australia, New*
Zealand, totalling 197 stations, and; have
certificates from all. The C.C.M. 3-valve
set has enough volume for a 5-valve set.
I must say that I am very, very pleased
with your set.
Mr. Hen. Alke, Toowoomba:
I can truthfully say it is the best set
on the market anywhere near the price.
\V. Gunn, Murdin, via Goondiwindi:
I consider that for once in my life I
have got value for my money.
Mr. R. Spoor, Mundubbera:
The C.C.M. 3-valve set will do everything
that a 5-valve Neutrodyne can do.
W. A. Elvery, Margaret Street, Toowoomba,
dated January 37, 1931:
I am still using one of your 5-valve
sets, which 1 purchased from you about
21 years ago. This set has proved most
satisfactory in every way. The set has
not cost me one penny for repairs, the
same valves are in use, and its range is
wonderful, bringing in all stations in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. It would be diffi-
cult to find a better set at the price.
Extract of letter received from H. Sabien,
Sabien’s Garage, Cambridge Street, Mit-
chell, dated February 16, 1932:
I receive daylight reception with the set.
It seems to be more the type of machine
for our conditions. It is doing good work
in the hot summer months. I have no
trouble. The B batteries in my set are
still in perfect condition. It seems to me
that this set is about the best on batteries,
and most economical on A battery.
Extract of letter received from J. S. AValsh,
manager for Mrs. M. A. Creagh, General
Storekeeper, P.O. Box 4, Cardwell, North
Queensland:
I can now obtain on my C.C.M. “5”
any station at a uniform-speaker strength;
in fact, so loud I have to reduce my volume
control. I obtain quite clearly on loud-
speaker strength the four Japanese
stations, two N.Z. stations, and all Austra-
lian stations. The summer-months theory
of static is unfounded as far as I am con-
cerned, and I can recommend any listener
to buy a C.C.M. “5” any month of the
year regardless of the season.
National C.C.M. “5”
SCREEN GRID
BATTERY OPERATED
■
1
fe.
iiiii
Console, £34/17/6
Table Model £31/17/6
National “5” All-Electric
(Including Rectifier).
II« m tt
II
mmm
mm
, JL
■BBbBHBI ■ I : i I m
Price, £29/10/-, complete.
National
C.r..M
RADIO
TO OUR AGENTS:—
Use this page for your
window display.
’Phone 84289.
INSURANCE HOUSE, late C.C.M.
Building,
Corner Adelaide and Creek Streets.
BRISBANE,
Please mention Bulletin
when writing.
The Famous National C.C.M. battery receivers.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS OF


e
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and C. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
PRODUCERS # CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Dr. D. Kelly, M. 8.8.5. Managing Director: H. Pell.
Head Office: P. & 0. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney. :
—0.0. W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Sy Agency Co., Ltd. •=
TAKE STOCK
Isn’t a periodical stocktaking of your private income and
expenditure as necessary to your success as the similar action
you regard as imperative in your business?
The difference between your personal expenses and your
income is your personal profit, and calls for the same wise
planning as must be given to a business.
Take stock now, thus early in the year, of your assets and
income, and of your certain and possible expenses. It will
enable you to spend wisely as well as to save wisely, and the
result should be a healthy Savings Bank balance.
ifibimnoiTwcaltl) Jankof Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
WHEAT WITHOUT SUPER.
The manager of the New England experi-
ment farm at Glen Innes is of opinion that
N.S.W.’s northern wheat area has “the great-
est future of any part of the Australian wheat
nmintrv” it q hio- thimr to Wfhe
S” he disdoSs in his report on the north-
ern field wheat championship, published in
the “Agricultural Gazette,” will amaze grow-
ers in the Riverina the Wimmera and other
Austialian wheat districts with claims to.
pre-eminence or hopes of achieving it.
• a 10 i * arm manager ’ Mr. G. p- .Sparks,
fig** crf ;P s , s '° Wn «• C " r l eW^’i DurI ’ L fi Per
* land la, Culgooia, Bingara, Delungia, Bog-
gabn, Pallamallawa, Spring Ridge, Curra-
bubala > Bugoldi. Tambar Springs and Qui-
rmdi. First prize went to J. Cavanagh, of
Spnnghurst, Gurlewis, who has had previous
successes. Hm winning crop of Nabawa
(Nabawa and lord made up to p.c. of the
entries) was on a heavy chocolate-to-black
loam which was under wheat in 1930. -That
crop taken off, the stubble was burnt and
the land scarified in January and again in
March Seeding was done in late April with
4olb. of seed, unmanured . The crop was
heavily fed off in June. And with so little
tillage and no manure, and with only 1041
points of rain during the growing period
(April-October), “the estimated yield was
40 bushels per acre ”
Second prize was' awarded t 0 N. S. Rich-
ards, of Dnri, for a crop of Ford, grown on
red, self-mulching loam, also under wheat in
1930. Stubble was burnt and the land “sun-
tyned” and harrowed in January, spring-
toothed late in February, and again twice
before sowing in early May with 561 b. of
seed—“ungraded, untreated, unmanured.”
The seed came from the champion northern
crop of 1930, “which possibly iustified the
obvious risks taken with it.” The owner
had 1500 .sheep on 180 acres of the crop
throughout July
The winner, of the third prize was A. H.
Nixon, of Upper Manilla; his crop of Yan-
dilla Kin- was estimated to <>-o hnsbels
It was grown on red loam under eultiva-
tion for q<i irenr« Tn thi'o nnon tim i,ou
MWimteSSTlg
land was moiddhnifrd-rdon-hert in
sDrine-toofbed in mid Mm-nii cown
Sh”SZiL earl! ' ) ’ and SiTena,ne,iiUm '
■RnWrino- riwx
Mr 4“ P “?t, ?e f aly ’
rnnnnrr? Tfinreceived any
the nnrihnm « ? J;? gards super, in
Snt
entripc worn 01 I *ri, lK i e n rac^. ca^y al |
hrLniiJ ? ie combine, and
HnW riA!! 1 ! Short (summer) fallow.
mnintlp). kofno- T eie +-io P ° U . le I°’
Bocro-nhri *O4 if by the cultivator _°uly.
W 1 r ° P WaS ia ’ oduc ed
iifo* ” tF ngtootbin ,B days Prmr to seed-
m unfavorable years a
- light amount of tillage is all that
Thl l h f. S a ver J Mpful effect
upon costs of production, and, coupled with
the saving on manure and the possibility of
producing wheat abundantly each season on
the same land for indefinite periods, gives to
the North the greatest future” already re-
ferred in Tt Lp
methods*realty be described astound’ They
would be ffldfl) in Sir wesf
would be suicidal in South Aus. and West-
Mr. Sparks advises the northern farmers
not to take chances with ungraded seed.
And “all areas,” he says “should be long-
fallowed once in. three years for weed and
disease control. It has been shown what
northern farmers and soils can do in seasons
of copious rainfall, but it is up to those men
dry 2 weather—-to Wlow'a't
the earliest possible moment, and to give
«ha fallow all the working it needs.- 51
W omz nmnarmmvn,
FLOCK IMPROVEMENT.
Cass”: The extreme range of merino
wool prices reflected at the Sydney sales
drives home the necessity for farmers to class
their sheep. The first _ essential a young
breeder should consider is his country. If
it is situated in the fine wool-growing centres
of the tablelands in N.S.W., fine wool should
be his aim. From earliest times the small-
framed merino has done well on steep hilly
country and its fine grasses. These little
chaps are great travellers, walking the moun-
tains with the minimum of effort, and sheep-
men who try to replace them with a large-
framed western type of medium-to-strong
staple are doomed to disappointing results.
1 know; I tried it and failed. M , ,
1S J; ata L tO J; plains
fine-woolled sheep to the■ h’
here heat and duststorms prevail,
1 rc Peat, country is the deciding factoi,
“f “>» ■>» Sr?™!!, to ßn»° niSaflto"
thpn* 5 stick to the
Rations of ones holding then stick to the
eweg Warding 30 p.c. each Tea-
gon> and se lling these culls forthwith for
wliat they will bring. Many failures are
caUiged by the short-sighted policy of wait-
ing for a good market for culls, until finally
t hey are agtdn incorporated in the flock, and
J nrn „ rp * made
idfss m£ flock to a definite plan, aided
, a reference card of arranged points; this
j g g ] ower but surer than trusting to memory,
j allow 50 points each for constitution and
f orm (constitution 20, symmetry 20, robust-
negg 10) and for wool an d covering (true-
ness 0 f type 16, evenness of covering 14, den-
gity 12 breeding and quality 8). Sheep
which after careful inspection do not total
30 pointg are discarded.
rrAirir irvmr'-R'T' ■ \ ■nvrr'T?', i
) AT 7,
J.A.S. : A neighbor wrote to the Queens-
an<3. Department of Agriculture and Stock
seeking advice on the condition ot his dairy
bord - Symptoms were depraved appetite, as
manifested by the chewing of bones and
bark of trees, and a general failure to do
in spite ?f abundanee of pasturage,
The department diagnosed the. trouble as
Posphorous deficiency, and advised feeding
a nurture, fl oae pound ~o f b ? an , ltb a
phosphorous deficiency and advised. feeding
but neighbor isn t taking the advice He
says !? impracticable to feed oO milking
c ?) vs dail U s « he .i* searching for a suit-
ab r e llck ’ ~ He . will probably / e^ al
licks and then decide that bran and bone-
hour .will do after all. , , .
. ls a mistake to reject the advice
glven ungrudgingly by agriculture and
stock departments. In 99 per cent, of cases
it embodies sound principles adapted to local
conditions, and if it ontails a little extra
exei ’tion the little extra is almost mvari-
ably repaid many times. In the case quoted.
“p himself. ProVsiorofi feed-
boxes was really all that was necessary.
Contrary to a widespread belief, it is
q U j te j n order to feed small quantities of
concentrated foods separately, provided, as
A - J - Murray, a recognised American
authority, says, enough bulky feed is fed
at anoth ’ er t^e 5n the da / to keep the
diges tive tract sufliciently distended,
Generally speaking our farmers are seek-
ing* ways of increasing production and over-
coming conditions that stand in the way.
man who disregards expert advice just
becauge it doegn , t coincide with his own
notions or entails a bit of elbow grease is not
helping himself or the country,
SILAGE ON N.S.W.’s NORTH COAST,
. »<a„„ » „
commented recently
I®* °O/J 2 / 31) on «he absen.3e of silage on
tne JN.fe.W. North Coast. Relying on
Nature.to provide the goods for early spring
has proved a disraal faih3l 'e 5 six of the past
n periodg lm ve been times of scarcity. But
chiefly the y ° Unger men ’ are mov '
r A! " w ■ -rlxto,. ~,
m-in tn om 1 t •. Q x, n :i m* /ft
„ ear *n , n tn % qivi nnnn! 6 * aS l
i
wi at L„ 1$!"! ! Tnhf lnnld iF ld l
surpassed that iif its sf ’oml A*lrSv
six tn > s 85 tonUlapLf; ha»f bS
Niife nits have^eerTfillefl 6ii d rcased
£«• a Zn"
All this within a radius of 25 miles 0 f Tarec.
The cost of the 85-ton tub of reinforced
concrete has ranged from £llO to £l3O.
This is rather too expensive for the majo-
rity of farmers. When we can have frames
for one of 50 tons costing £75 the district
will be dotted with them,
The pits are chiefly of the recommended
type, 50ft. long on top, 20ft. at the bottom,
with two ends battened, 15ft. each 9ft’
wide and sft. to 6ft. deep. These hold about
35 tons. The material, whole maize, is
placed in lengthwise and covered with earth,
The silage is of excellent quality there is
very little loss and the pits can ‘be cheaply
built. I have seen three put down in the
course of 24 to 30 working hours by two
men with plough and scoop, costing con-
siderably less than 3s. per ton. Other pits
seen are 16ft. to 20ft. deep, and 12ft. in dia-
meter. Maize is chaffed into this type;
they are more costly, however, and less
handy. Stacks for maize should be
avoided owing to a loss of not less than
25 per cent.
This is only a start. If the 1932 spring
is dry there will be great developments next
year. Silage is security. As one farmer
says, “It is banking money.”
BABY BEEF OR BUTTER?
“F 34” : “W.D.Mc.’s” contention (B.
17/2/’32) that you can get better returns
from veal than from butter is unconvincing.
He quotes his own methods and someone
else’s price. The land that will carry a
cow will not run the same cow and two
weaners. The dairy-bred calves “W.D.Mc.”
proposes to buy may grow as fast as beef-
bred calves, but since they never acquire
the same smooth-fleshed, well-finished appear-
ance they will not realise the same high
price.
The cow that can rear two calves satis-
factorily will average a pound of butter a
day, and with a little care calves can be
reared as satisfactorily on the bucket as on
the cow. With fair to good grass a gallon
of skim-milk and up to four ounces of pol-
lard per head per day fattens my calves, a
cost of about 2Jd. per week. A pound of
butter per day at the present low price of
9£d. is ss. 6d. a week, or ss. after buying
the pollard for two calves. To look after
a herd of 20 cows —an average of 16 in milk
—is no outsize job for a man. With the
class of cow discussed the return would be
£4 per week —better wages than is usually
paid for the work —without diminishing the
profits from veal.
MARSH FOXTAIL GRASS.
“O’Gorman”: In the Gormandale district
(Vic.) this grass, which appeared only a
few years ago, is taking high rank as a
producer of high-class fodder on wet flats
and swampy lands. It comes very early,
throws a dense sward, which is relished by
stock, and spreads spontaneously and
quickly wherever conditions suit it. Above
all it descends into swampy, sedgy hollows
farther than the standard grasses, such as
English rye and prairie, will do. A fault
is that in a dry summer it goes off for a
few months until the rains revive it, but
that is a. fault it shares with all the English
grasses.
On the whole this newcomer deserves the
attention of everyone who has even a small
area of suitable land. Its scientific name
is Alopecurus geniculatus, and it is a close
relation of the meadow foxtail.
trapping-out rabbits.
“R. 0.”: The plant required by small
farmers consists of 100 traps per man, a
setter and a good mattock with a blade a
foot long. Having destroyed hollow logs
and the like, start in one corner or along
one side of the paddock. Set the traps
out of burrows about twice as thick as
one would fofc skins, but do not over-
crowd ; one trap to every three or four
openings is. plenty. Set an occasional trap
on dunghills and feeding-grounds.
The first two nights just reset the traps
that catch, and move them round. On
the third morning move on half the traps
and break in all holes that have not traps
at them. Dig along the burrow with a
good long-bladed mattock till you lose it.
This means you will have Ift. to 18in. of
loose dirt on the opening, and if a rabbit
comes out he will seldom go back. Do not
go from one thick patch of rabbits to
another, but move steadily forward in a
line.
After two nights it will be found that
the 50 traps left behind on the first set are
not catching many. They may be pulled
up and the holes filled in. But keep a
few set on top of the filled-in burrows for
rabbits that will make back. In this way
the bulk of the rabbits will be kept ahead
and the first line of traps should be catch-
ing well all the time.
In about three weeks an average 500-acre
paddock should have been trapped over once
and the burrows broken in. The hardest
of the work has now been done, but bunny
still needs a lot of attention. The dogs
will now be catching some that will not
face the burrows any more. Now move the
traps back in a line, setting every hole
that has been reopened. Cut stakes and
drive one in near each trap or burrow. By
tying a piece of paper round the top of
them you can make decent landmarks of
them and save a lot of time lost in search-
ing. A further three weeks or a month
should find you in possession of that elusive
creature the last rabbit. But it is neces-
sary to keep the traps set and attended
to till you are satisfied there are no more
bunnies about; don’t leave them alone.
Rabbits that are harried and frightened
lose a lot of their cunning and will not
breed. But they have short memories, and
leaving them alone even for a week will
undo much of your good work.
The objection the old hands have to this
method is that while you get rid of the
rabbits the burrows are still there. But
after six months neglect and erosion will
have destroyed most of the burrows, too,
and when the skin cheque is deducted from
the cost of the labor the improvement will
be found to have almost paid for itself.
Five hundred acres is as much as one man
can handle comfortably. It should be re-
garded as a full-time job the first month,
and a half-time job the following six weeks.
BETTER FARMING AND LOWER
COSTS.
For two years past The Bulletin has
had a steady stream of requests to put a
selection of its “Land” page hints and other
practical information into a handy book for
sale at anything up to two shillings. In
its new home The Bulletin found itself
for the first time able to take the matter
in hand; and it has been able to produce
a book containing as much reading matter
as two ordinary novels hold, and publish it
for one shilling. The “Land” pages were
established on the basis that almost every
farmer and stockgrower knows something
which the great bulk of his brother farmers
and stockgrowers don’t know; and, as not
only experienced farmers but Agricultural
Department officers and scientists responded
to the invitation to help the industry by
telling what they know, a steady stream of
most valuable information has flowed in.
The pick of it will be found in “Handy
Hints for the Farm,” which will be avail-
able in Easter week—that’s when Sydney
holds its great annual agricultural and
pastoral show.
THE GALLOWS.
“Mulyan”: The farm or station gallows
is of two sorts, one for cattle and one for
sheep, and it is always better to make a
good substantial job of either than to have
a makeshift that may cause trouble and loss
of time on killing day. The sheep gallows
is merely a lever. Two forked posts are
erected, about 6ft. high, and 4ft. or sft.
apart. On top place a roller, 41in. or sin.
in diameter, shouldered at the ends so that
it won’t slip out of the forks. The crutch
of the forks should be chiselled out to make
the roller fit neatly and place the weight
on the head of the posts instead of against
the prongs. For lever, bolt a 10ft. or 12ft.
length of sapling across the centre of the
roller, _ adzing both roller and lever where
they join, and insert an eyebolt and ring
at the thick end. This end of the pole
should be shorter, from the roller, than the
tail or handle end. To hold the latter, when
the sheep has been hoisted, two short posts
are placed 6in. apart, and two or three lin.
holes bored through each; and when the
lever is brought down between them an
iron peg, such as a piece of an old bullock-
yoke, is run through the Jioles above it.
Another and simpler form of sheep gal-
lows may be made with one post eithei
round or split. Mortise a slot in the top,
3in. wide and 6in. deep, rounding the bottom
edges off on, each side. Fit the lever in
the slot, and put a stout bolt through it
and through each side of the mortise. One
post can also be made to hold the lever
down. Square two sides of the post near
the top, and fasten one side of a horse-
shoe to it, with the points down, and so
that the lever can be slipped under' the other
side.
For cattle, the gallows is erected over a
small killing-yard. I have seen this yard
on stations as small as Bft. by 10ft., but
that is. rather too cramped for working in.
Care should be taken in choosing the forked
uprights and the roller, for they have a
heavy weight to carry. Prongs should be
short and fairly straight, the crutch grooved
for the collared roller to turn in snugly,
with the weight on the centre of the post.
The roller should be of even thickness right
through, Bin. or 9in., and have a maul-
ring sweated on each end to prevent it
splitting. The butt end should protrude
about a foot outside the upright; through
the centre of that foot mortise a hole 3in.
by 2in., then turn the roller half-round and
mortise a similar hole through it. Through
these put the arms by which the roller is
turned ; they may be sawn timber or round
timber, dressed to the shape of the hole,
but they must fit firmly. A bolt through
each keeps them in position. The two
pieces of timber thus make four arms;
it must be tough timber that will stand a
heavy strain without breaking. Through
the end of each arm bore a hole for a
rope to pull the arm down with when it
is_ out of reach, or two pieces of fencing
wire, twisted together, may be run through
the holes and fastened at each arm. This
is always in position and dispenses with
ropes.
Cut the tops of the prongs off level, and
nail a piece of tin over them, like the
cover on top of a chimney, to protect the
(Continued on page 26.)


AB
mm
Built for comfort
Without sacrifice of appearance!
This is a shoe designed by
Abbey to allow free play of
every foot muscle. . . .shaped to
arch over the instep so that it
never feels tight. There are
four widths for each full and
half size. Its upper is of glossy
black velour calf.... the sole of
the toughest Australian leather.
ORDER BY POST.
State whether you need narrow,
medium, wide or extra-wide fitting,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or
a handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
ABBEY
EstabJished over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 271
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
<* /
II
n
Monarch
\ Cigars
Craig sAitken
. Wholesale
I Distributors
r Sidney N.S.W.
R.ED POLLS
FOR SYDNEY ROYAL SHOW.
A Good Opportunity for Dairymen and
Graziers.
0. BASSETT-SMITH, of the Temperley Red Poll
Stud, Kyabram, Victoria, will offer for sale at the
Show Grounds a few choice young Bulls and Heifers
bred on sound dual purpose lines.
Herd under Official Government Test averaged
318.771 b. butter fat for 273 days, with no allow-
ances, to end of June, 1931.
Temperley Red Polls have been awarded prizes
at Melbourne Royal Show every year exhibited, last
year winning First and Second for Junior and Senior
Three-year-old type and utility class, First for
mature cow type and utility class, and Second and
Third (to an imported cow) in class for cows in milk.
C. BASSETT-SMITH
Temperley Red Poll Stud,
BOX 11, KYABRAM, VIC.
Legal Notices.
BRONGA or BRONGER.
IF LOUISA and JOHN and BAYLEE
BRONGA or BRONGER will communi-
cate with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES CO.,
LTD., of 472 Bourke-street, Melbourne, they
will hear something to their advantage. The
above were last heard of in Platina, New
South Wales, about 30 years ago.
TO WALTER EDWARD LUCRE, husband of Emily
Mawer (formerly Lucre), who died intestate at
Drummond in New Zealand on July 23, 1929.
PURSUANT to an Order made on February 19,
1932, by a Judge of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand, you are hereby called upon to send in to
the undersigned on or before the Ist day of April,
1932, your claim to the estate of the abovenamed
deceased, failing which the said estate will be
distributed amongst those entitled thereto disregard-
ing your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 22nd day of February,
1932.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.
In Equity.
No. 97 of 1932.
Between FREDERICA SARAH DALRYMPLE JEAN
FREDERICA DALRYMPLE and JACK FLEAY
DALRYMPLE an infant under the age of
twenty-one years by John Frederick Dalrymple
his next friend Plaintiffs.
And ALEXANDER MELYILLE, LANCELOT
GEORGE BLACK,MORE AMY JANE MEL-
VILLE NOEL GEORGE GORDON ENA AMY
GORDON DAISY TARLETON and DONALD
FLEAY MELVILE Defendants.
To the abovenamed Defendant LANCELOT GEORGE
BLACKMORE late of 56 Hunter Street Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed Plaintiffs
have commenced a suit against you by Statement
of Claim filed in this Honorable Court on the seven-
teenth day of February One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-two claiming that you may be removed
from the office of Trustee of the Will of Lily
Augusta Wallace deceased and for other relief and
orders against you as therein mentioned. AND ALSO
TAKE NOTICE that by an order made in the said
Suit on the twenty-sixth day of February One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-two it was ordered
that the Plaintiffs were to be at liberty to effect
service of the said Statement of Claim on you by
advertising this notice once in the “Sydney Morning
Herald” “The Bulletin” and the “Brisbane Courier”
newspapers and that the time within w'hich you are
to file an appearance to the said Statement of Claim
is within twenty-eight days from the publication of
this advertisement. A copy of the said Statement
of Claim may be had by you free of charge on
application to the undersigned.
DALRYMPLE & BLAIN,
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs,
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Hie Australian Art Exhibition
'THE MACLEOD GALLERY"
Bulletin PuilfTinqs
252 Georqe Street.
S Y D N (= V |f
■<»
See announcement page 13.
WHEN ITS AN...
SS
CARLY morning or late night —in fair weather or foul
the antics of the thermometer notwithstanding— you
wanf action from your starter #And that's what you get
when you have an Exide in your car — action! Tremendous
reserve power is built into every Exide — the result of
nearly half a century of battery manufacturing experience.
• Exide users have a feeling of satisfaction and assurance
because they know that "When it’s an Exide — you start."
Exide Batteries are made in Australia.
Hxi^e
The Long Life Battery
fOR CARS. RADIO HOME IICHTINC
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane —Exide Battery Service (Q.),
Ltd.; Sydney—Exide Battery Service (Gibson, Battle and Co.,
Ltd.); Melbourne —A. P. Sutherland; Adelaide—Unbehaun and
Johnstone, Ltd.; Perth —M. J. B ateman, Ltd.; Hobart —Medhurst
and Sons Pty., Ltd.
C25
forks from the weather. As the sallows
nearly always stands in the open, it can
he made to last much longer if the arms
are given a coat of paint or tar. Finally,
keep the ends of the roller greased.
The arms may be dispensed with by
using blocking tackle, making the top piece
firm for the block, and using the roller
outside the yard in the form of a windlass.
On stations where killing is done in a
shed, a winch is used. On the droving track
the limb of a tree does for a gallows, when
a gallows is used at all, the carcase being
drawn un by a horse. A second _ rope on
the gamble is thrown over the limb, and
the other end is tied to a tree to hold the
carcase at the required height.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I am situated in tlic middle of about 1200
acres of lucerne under irrigation, some in
flower all the summer, and I am thinking
of starting an apiary. (1) Would the honey
the bees would take out of the flowers affect
the fattening qualities of the lucerne for
sheep? (2) How many hives could I run?
(3) Is lucerne honey of first quality, and is
it likely to candy quickly? —8368.
(1) No.' (2) One hundred colonies is an
ample number to have on one site in a good
locality, and it is desirable that some forest
trees, noted for honey production, should be
available for the bees. Out-apiaries could be
worked, provided they are a mile or so
distant. (3) It is first-quality. It candies
rapidly, but is easily liquefied again.
How to use sodium chlorate as a weedi-
cide? —8536. ... ,
It is applied in solution in the form ot
a fine mist-like spray. For most weeds,
particularly deep-rooting ones, a 10 p.c.
solution is required, prepared by dissolving
the chlorate at. the rate of lib. in 1 gallon
of water. Many weeds can be destroyed
with much weaker solution, even as weak
a dilution as 1 p.c. One hundred gallons
of solution is usually sufficient to treat one
acre of weed growth, but with weeds that
make heavy growth the quantity required
should be increased to about 150 gallons.
Select a cool misty day when the weeds are
flowering. Materials which burn easily, if
sprinkled with a solution of sodium chlorate,
are rendered more inflammable, and fine
straw, clothing, etc., that have been moist-
ened with the solution and allowed to dry
may be ignited by friction or from a spark.
It is therefore inadvisable to prepare the
solution inside sheds, and if the clothing be-
comes saturated with the solution it should
be thoroughly rinsed before being allowed to
dry. And if large quantities are being used
rubber boots should be worn.
In order to get a return from passion
vines in the shortest possible time after April
in Fairfield district (N.S.W.), (1) at what,
age should they be purchased from nursery?
(2) Cost? (3) When should they be planted
and when would they bear? (4) Approxi-
mate yield per vine for the first season and
succeeding seasons ? —8408.
(1) About six months. (2) About 7s. 6d. per
100. (3) October to December. They should
yield a small crop six to nine months after
planting. (4) An average of 150 half-cases
per acre might be expected. Unless the situa-
tion at Fairfield is fairly frost-free, it is
doubtful whether the passion vines will be
a success.
(1) How is atomic sulphur prepared, and
could it be prepared from ordinary flowers
of sulphur in the orchard? (2) What is the
difference betiveen atomic and ditromic sul-
phur, and how is ditromic sulphur prepared?
§236.
(1) Atomic sulphur is a registered pro-
prietary preparation. Full particulars for
preparing a similar product, “colloidal sul-
phur,” are given in Bulletin No. 72, “Spray-
ing,” obtainable from Agriculture Depart-
ment, Sydney, Is. Id. post free. (2) Atomic
sulphur is elemental sulphur in a very finely
divided state. Ditromic sulphur is a pro-
prietary preparation, the nature of which is
not disclosed by the manufacturers.
How to make cider? —8517.
Gather fully-matured apples and store
them in a cool place for 14 days. If you
have not a cider press, place the apples
in a strong wooden tub and crush each one
with a piece of wood, straining the juice
into an upright wooden cask with a tap
placed about two inches from the bottom.
When the cask is almost full, cover it with
cheesecloth and watch for signs of fermen-
tation. When bubbles begin to rise, run
off the juice through the tap into a smaller
cask till the latter is quite full; leave the
bung open and allow the liquor to work,
removing the foam daily. When fermenta-
tion ceases, draw off the clear liquid and
bottle. Store in a cool place.
(1) Where can I obtain young plants or
seeds of the thin-shelled Queensland nut?
(2) What is the value of a crop from a
single tree in full bearing? (3) Are the
nuts marketed or only the kernels? (4)
Would it be wise to extract the kernels of
the hard-shelled variety and market them in
that way? (5) Is there any likelihood of
a glut? —8385.
(1) Large, medium-shell seed nuts from
,T ,T. Hinde, Gilston, via Nerang, Queens-
land. Thin-shelled from S. M. Greer, Upper
Dungay, via Murwillumbah (N.S.W.) ; or J.
B. Waldron, Upper Eungella, Tweed River
(N.S.W.). (2) £2 10s. (3) They are usually
disposed of in the shell. (4) As far as is
known there is nothing to jeopardise market-
ing the kernels of hard-shelled species pro-
vided the kernels are not broken and they
are packed in insect-proof containers.
(5) No.
How to make a leaky tarpaulin water-
proof?—8294.
Hold the tarpaulin against the light to
find the weak places. If there are holes,
patch them with plenty of margin; and
darn all thin spots with linen thread. Place
1 quart of boiled linseed oil over a slow fire,
and add to it 4oz. of common yellow soap,
which has been lightly shaved up and dis-
solved to a jelly in hot water. Stir well,
and leave in a warm place. Wet the tar-
paulin and spread it out on a table. When
it has drained but is still damp, give it a
good coat of the oil mixture with a brush,
and hang up to dry. When thoroughly dry,
give a second coat. Further coats may be
painted on, but each must be quite dry
before the next painting. The mixture is
best applied warm.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Karaway”: One way of lessening erosion
on sloping farms is to plant drilled crops, such
as maize and potatoes, across the slope. When
the drills run up and down they make
channels for the water, which carries tons
of soil to the bottom. Where wheat is sown,
cross-ploughing is a check, if the harrowing
is left as late as possible before the seed
is sown. The top furrows, at least, should
be turned upwards.
“Marsh”: A method of allowing a bore-
drain to pass* through a rabbit fence.
Secure a piece of casing about Bft. long
and lay it through the fence, along the
course of the drain. Place a piece of net-
ting across on the top side of the flow
so that it becomes rabbit-proof. This pro-
cedure will preclude . bunny from getting
through from either side. As an extra pre-
caution to prevent the casing becoming
choked up, place a piece of larger mesh
netting a few feet in advance of the casing
entrance. Weeds can be raked away from
the netting.
“Dunboy”: After unrolling your barb-
wire don’t destroy the spool; unbroken reels
are handy when you wish to re-roll or
remove a length. When re-rolling thrust a
bar of iron or length of pipe through the
reel for an axle and secure wire to reel.
A man each side can hold bar with one
hand and turn spool with the other, each
bearer pushing over an alternate spoke. A
fair strain must be kept on the wire.
“McNoon”: A simpler way than
“W.D.Mc.’s” of enficing a cow to mother
calf No. 2 (B. 17/2/’B2) is to take calf
No. 1 away, put cow and calf No. 2 in the
yard and call a dog in. The cow will
rush to the calf to protect it. If the. dog
tries to chase the animals the more quickly
will the adoption be. After things have
quietened down calf No. I can be retui’ncd
to the cow and calf No. 2 ; then the three
will become a happy family.
“Pine Scrub”: No practical man will
quarrel with “Beefo’s” way of getting fat
cattle to market (B. 10/l/’32) ; rather will
he extend the advice to treatment of stores.
Handle them carefully going to the yards
and they will look £1 a head better than
those which have been dogged along the
road. Give them their time going home
after you have bought, and they will do well
straightway, instead of needing two or three
weeks in your best paddock to recover. Let
the same rules apply in the paddocks, and
you will have quiet contented cattle, doing
as well as the feed will allow instead
of a half-wild mob which makes for the
timber at the sight of man or dog.
“D.H.R.”: After wet weather always
wash and well oil hobble-straps. The same
applies to bell-straps that have been mud-
died through the horse rolling. Hard
hobble- and bell-straps cause festering sores,
and flies complete the job. Better than
leather are straps made from disused motor
tyres.
“Bill R.”; Don’t throw away the ribbon
iron that binds woolpack bales. Riveted
into a frame to fit a kerosene-tin it makes
an excellent tip-bucket for the well. Nailed
round, it lengthens the service of a splitting
post or gateliead for years. It can be twined
into baskets, cages or crates, makes a last-
ing binding strip for palings, a strong brace
for shattered joints in vehicles, and neat
renovations in broken rough furniture.
“Dimon”: When a piece of guttering has
rusted through and the rest is good, there
is no need to call in a plumber. Take
out the rusted piece,, replace with anew
length, and when it is secured in position
putty the joint inside and out. The new
iron can’t be soldered on .to the old rusted
sections, but the putty, with a dab of paint
over it, will hold as long as the spouting
lasts.
“Dai R.”: If you’ve a leaky paddock tank,
hot weather is the time to tackle it. Place
alternate loads of sand and clay (any sort
will do) round the edge of the water.
Stock coming to drink will scatter it and
tread it in. As the water recedes follow it
with your circles of alternate clay and sand.
One season’s work will remain effective for
upwards of five years.
“Pine Scrub”: When laying a long line
of piping see that a special union is inserted
to allow for expansion and contraction as
the seasons change. Also see that you
have, at intervals, unions which allow the
line to be broken without taking the lot
up. Small matters these, but omission may
mean trouble.
“Wandi”: If you have to leave a sheep
that you have caught in the paddock to get
a rope, shears, or something else that may
not be handy, throw it on its side and put
your hat over its eyes. It will then lie
quietly.
“Wescoeky”: When fruit or ornamental
trees are drooping because of white ants,
dig away from the roots and sprinkle them
and adjacent soil with carbon bi-sulphide.
Toss portion of loose soil back, sprinkle it
with the fluid and then pack the remaining
soil back, watering well. Carbon bi-sulphide
soon finishes the termites, and if they have
not done too much damage the trees will
recover; but the stuff is highly inflammable.
“Mulgo”: Old farm horses that have
defective teeth should be served with a good
ration of green stuff, and with chaff instead
of hay, and cracked corn instead of whole
corn. ' Green stuff, whether barley, lucerne
or grass, requires comparatively little masti-
cation, and is easy to digest. When a horse
is in the habit of bolting his food, or takes
a long while over his meal, or is not holding
his condition, there is generally something
wrong with his teeth. Being worn down
doesn’t matter if they are even, but there
may be jagged edges or points that want
filing. The teeth of old animals should be
examined at least once a week. Also, water
them before feeding—this is good advice in
regard to all horses, especially when they
are fed on hay or other dry food.
“Wandi”: To prevent indoor whitewash
rubbing off, mix 2oz. of glue with each 41b.
of whiting. Soak the glue first, then boil
gently till it is thoroughly liquefied, and
pour into the mixed whiting. If you want
a bluish tint, add a little washing blue.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back coyer of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
„ The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Married couple with two children: man book-
keeper, houseman, gardener or chauffeur; wife, cook-
housekeeper, bake bread; daughter (17), housework,
seek position together, N.Q. preferred.—Bs34.
Gardener (28), N.S.W., single, seeks work on
station, anywhere. Can milk and kill. —8516.
Young married couple, both good cooks, man can
milk and kill, handy with tools, want work on
station, anywhere. Refs. —8504.
Farmer with 150 acres good tobacco land, Mareeba,
N.Q., wants working partner with £600.-8567.
Copy of the “Bystander’’ about last November
containing review of book which it was suggested
was written by Beverley Nichols under a notn-de-
plume.—Bs46,
Words of verse about a dying Boer beginning “Lay
my rifle down beside me; place my Bible on my
breast.”—Bs3l.
Words of poems “Not Understood” and “The
Difference.” —8532.
Words of song commencing “I was born in Boston
City.”—Bs2o.
Words of verse “Been Set Fantasy.”—Bs73.
To buy Prescott’s “Conquest of Peru.”—Bs7l.
Steps of the “Viennese Waltz.”—Bss2.
Whereabouts of Malcolm Gordon Murchison,
formerly of Hobart. —8501.
Whereabouts of Richard Llewellyn, who left Eng-
land many years ago for N. S. Wales. —8559.
Information Sought.
What are the qualifications for appoint-
ment to the Australian Army Reserve with
commissioned rank?. —8371.
It is necessary to have served as an officer
(1) on active service, or (2) for five years
on the active list of the citizen forces.
For boats on inland lakes or lagoons,
what is the rule in passing another boat?
If carrying a light on each beam, what color
for port and what for starboard? —8523.
A vessel must give way to another which
is crossing her course from starboard. Port
sidelight red, starboard light green.
What qualifications must a junior clerk
employed by the Sydney Municipal Council
possess? Age and commencing salary? —
8565.
He must have passed either the Inter-
mediate, Leaving Certificate or Public Ser-
vice exam., and be 16 or thereabouts. He
must also pass an entrance exam. Com-
mencing salary, £94 10s. 6d. p.a.
(1) What are the fats and oils used in
the manufacture of margarine, (2) Do
all brands contain the same ingredients? —
8512.
(1) In Australia, pure beef oleo and
locally-produced cotton-seed oil and peanut
oil are the materials most commonly used.
In other countries many other fats and
oils are used. (2) There are variations.
(1) Cost, (2) age limit and (3) quali-
fication for a boy to enter the mercantile
marine ? —8468.
(1) About £52 for four years’ appren-
ticeship, usually repayable during the four
years. Otherwise only the cost of an outfit
to go to sea as. deckboy. (2) No limit.
Sixteen is the usual age. (3) ‘Physical
fitness, parents’ consent and education not
lower than standard required for leaving
certificate.
How can I prime some ordinary canvas
duck so that I could paint on it with oil
paints? —Bs74.
Give a coat of size about half the con-
sistency of carpenter’s glue, and if an
open canvas, add whiting to the size to the
consistency of cream. When dry rub lightly
with sandpaper and give a coat of white
lead dissolved in turpentine to the con-
sistency of ordinary paint. Rub well in, so
that the grain of the canvas is retained.
Any information available concerning J.
Roberts, inventor of a device relating to
light sound control? —Bso3.
The only scientist bearing this name of
whom we have record is Dr. J. H. Roberts,
born in 1890, who was educated at Liver-
pool and .Cambridge Unis. He has taken out
several radio patents and is an authority
on those branches of physics relating to
light and sound.
(1) Must hotel licensees in Vic. have all
their employees (male and female ) insured?
(2) Should an employee meet with an acci-
dent while on duty, due to employer’s lack
of care, what compensation is due to the
injured one? (3) Compensation due in
case of accident not due to carelessness?
(4) What action should be taken in. the
case of a licensee who has failed to have
the staff insured, one of whose members has
met with an Occident? —B424.
(1) Yes. (2) and (3) Lack of care
does not affect rights under the Workers’
Compensation Act. Compensation during
disablement equalling two-thirds of the
worker’s weekly earnings, subject to a maxi-
mum of £2, is payable, plus ss. per week
in respect of each child under 14, with a
maximum of £l. (4) Make a claim for
compensation. Failure to insure does not
relieve an employer of his obligation to
pay. Penalties are provided for failure to
insure.
(1) Best kind of timber for building a
bath? (2) Should timber to be used in
salt water be treated to prevent injury by
worms or growth? —Bsl4.
(1) Turpentine ( Syncarpia laurifolia )
with the hark intact. This would be used
for the piles; for stringers, decking, etc.,
brushbox (Tristania conferta) would prove
satisfactory. (2) It is not usual to treat
either timber, but they are often sheathed
with copper or Muntz metal.
In 1930 a relative gave me £SOO. The
donor died within 12 months of making the
gift. What Commonwealth probate or other
duty must I pay?— Bso9.
You have nothing to pay at the. present
time, as the gift will be taken into the
deceased donor's property and be taxed as
part of it. Later on the executor may make
a claim on you for your proportion of the
duties, etc., on the value of the gift.
Which is correct? “If Shakspeare were
■ alive to dan.” or “If Shakspeare was alive
to-day” ? —B6OO.
In strict grammatical usage the sentence
should read “If Shakspeare were,” etc., but
many admittedly good writers use “was” in
such a connection.
I am on a visit to N.S.W. If I remain
here, how long will my income be taxed?
It consists of a pension from India and
£5OO p.a. from investments in England,
which has already been taxed ss. in the £.
Is the taxation the same in N.S.W. as Vic.?
—8396.
Pension from India is subject to N.S.W.
unemployment tax. It is not subject to
State or Federal income tax if tax has
already been paid thereon in India. Income
from English investments is subject to un-
employment tax only. The rates in N.S.W.
and Vic. vary.
What was the percentage of unemployed
in each State and the Commonwealth in
1929 as compared with the present time? —
8352.
Percentage of members of trade unions
returned as unemployed, Oct.-Dec., 1929:
N. S. Wales, 13.8 p.c.; Vic., 13.5 p.c.;
Queensland, 7.4 p.c.; S.A., 17.8 p.c.; W.A.,
11.8 p.c.; Tas., 15.1 p.c. Total Common-
wealth, 13.1 p.c. Oct.-Dec., 1931: N. S.
Wales, 31.5 p.c.; Vic., 25.6 p.c.; Queensland,
17.5 p.c.; S.A., 33.7 p.c.; W.A., 28.1 p.c.;
Tas., 28.4 p.c. Total Commonwealth,
28.0 p.c.
A man dies without making a will. There
are nO children. Does his widow take all
the property? —B497.
If the net value of the property does not
exceed £5OO, the widow is entitled to the
whole of it. If it exceeds £5OO she gets
£5OO and in addition a half-share of the
residue, the remainder being divisible among
the next of kin.
Of what tcood should a surf-board be
made? Size and shape? —B4BB.
Well-seasoned, completely dried and
coarse-grained redwood. Length, Oft.; width,
2ft. in widest part; Ift. 6in. at stern. One-
third of the centre of the board to be 3in.
thick, tapering to the bow and stern* edges
rounded. The board should be varnished,
not painted. The Surf Life-saving Asso-
ciation, 10 Hunter-street, Sydney, can supply
a plan, Sd., plus postage.
(1) What is the most suitable type of
craft for deep-sea and coastal travelling,
motor cruiser or auxiliary yacht? (2)
Length, beam and weight required to
accommodate six to eight travellers? (3)
Approximate cost? (4) Horse-power re-
quired? (5) Most suitable material for
construction, steel, aluminium alloy, or
wood ? —8432.
(1) An auxiliary ketch with a good turn
of speed under sail and ample power. (2)
Fifty feet long, 12ft. beam. (3) About
£BOO, without fitting up or spars, sails, gear,
etc. (4) Depends on speed required. (5)
Unless you are a multi-millionaire, stick
to timber.
Is there legally any limit to the nocturnal
hour to which persons may annoy their
neighbors with unreasonable noise? —B426.
No statutory limit,* but at common law
the interference by one citizen vtitli the
quiet or the enjoyment of another—“any-
thing that discomposes or injuriously affects
the senses, or the nerves”—may be ground
for an action as a nuisance.
When was pottery first manufactured? —
8390..
It is thought that the earliest specimens
were those discovered in the cave dwellings
of Palaeolithic man, such as in the cave of
Hohlefels near Ulmand, and that of Nabri-
gas near Toulouse. Pottery has also been
found in the kitchen-middens of Denmark,
thought to be of this period. The best
authenticated remains are those of the
Neolithic age, such as the predynastie pot-
tery of Egypt.
(1) What is the meaning of the water-
marks “Crown” over “CC” and “Crown”
over “CA ” used on British Colonial stamp-
paper? (2) What is the advantage of the
Multiple Crown CA watermark? —B3BB.
(1) Crown Colonies and Crown Agents.
The original designation did not apply to
all parts of the British Empire, which em-
ploved these watermarks, so in 1882 the
Crown Agents for the Colonies, who have
charge of the arrangements for the produc-
tion of most of the Colonial stamps in
London, altered the watermark to Crown
over CA. (2) It ensures that each stamp
in the sheet shall have at least one complete
watermark irrespective of the size of the
stamp, and of faulty registering of the paper
and plate in the printing-press.
(1) Why do some overseas prints bear the
PrintseUers’ Association mark and others
not? (2) What is the value of such mark?
—8398.
(1) Artists and publishers identify them-
selves with the Printsellers’ Association to
prevent the sale of prints beyond the number
declared in the editions of their work. Each
makes a written declaration of the numbe
of impressions of an edition and each print
is then submitted to the association and is
stamped with a stamp bearing the name of
the association. (2) The protection afforded
by guarantee of a limited edition.
Randolph Bedford, in “The Snare of
Strength," heads a chapter in inverted
commas with: “The comb of bees,, the hiss
of first love and: water to the thirsty. are
not so sweet as the smile of the politician
before the election.” Is that a quotation,
and if so, where is it from? —5475.
Randolph Bedford explains: “Yes, its a
quotation. I made it up all by myself and
put the quote marks on it to. give it weight.
1 suspect this procedure in ‘quotations
marked ‘Anon.’ ”
Have IV.S.W. hospitals received any money
from the proceeds of the State Lottery?
If so, how muchf —$270.
The N.S.W. Treasury was invited to fur-
nish a statement on the subject and replied
as follows: “From the commencement of the
State Lottery up to the 31st September,
1931, £281,000 was paid into the Consoli-
dated Revenue Fund from lottery earnings.
The estimated receipts from the lottery up
to the 30th June, 1932, are £250,000; but
judging from operations to 31st December
last, this estimate is likely to be sub-
stantially exceeded, and the net results from
the lotteries for the current financial year
may run into £450,000. The whole of the
lottery earnings, excepting expenses of man-
agement, are going to the hospitals, which
will have had substantially more this finan-
cial year than they had last financial year.
On the estimates much more than the actual
lottery earnings will be paid to the hospitals
during the year. If it had not been for
tlie lotteries, the hospitals and kindred
institutions would have been subjected to
the 20 per cent, cut under the Premiers
Plan. Of the £281,000 paid up to the
31st December, 1931, into the Consolidated
Revenue Fund from lottery earnings, ex-
penses of management would have to be
deducted, but, it is impossible at present
to state precisely what the percentage of
costs would be.”
What is the value of a genuine Tjiurcn-
tius Storioni violin, 1789, in perfect condi-
tion and of excellent tonet —B37s.
Impossible to say, as the quality of this
maker's work varies considerably. Submit
it to A. E. Smith, Hunter-street, Sydney.
How much cash can one have in the bank
and still be eligible for an old-age or an
invalid pension? —B3s6.
£5O, if single. In the case of married
people, where both the husband and wife
are alive, the total assets are halved and
an exemption of £25 made in each case,
provided both are applicants. If only one
is an applicant the exemption is £5O after
halving the total assets.
My wife has an income from property of
approximately £lB7 per annum. (1) Is this
subject to Federal property tax of 2s. in
the £? (2) Is it subject to N.S.W. State
unemployment tax. (3) Should it be
mentioned in my own Federal and State
returns? —B34s.
(1) Not unless your wife derived income
from other sources which would bring her
total net income in excess of £2OO. (2)
It would be necessary to furnish a return.
If it be then found that the net income,
after making allowable deductions, amounted
to £lOO or over, tax would be payable. (3)
Statement No. 2 of the return form, in
connection with the transfer of property
by married persons, should be completed.
Is the songlark an Australian bird, and
how can it be identified? —8440.
There are two species peculiar to Aus-
tralia. The male brown songlark (Ginclor-
hamphus cruralis) is a bird about nine
inches in length, dull brown above and black-
ish below; the female is very much smaller.
The rufous songlark (G. mathewsi ) is
seven inches long, brown above, with a
rufous patch at the base of the tail, and
whitish below. In habits they greatly re-
semble the true larks (Alaudidce), running
on the ground and rising into the air to
pour forth a melodious song while soaring
upwards; but they also sing while perched in
trees or flying from one tree to another. The
nest of dry grass is built on the ground in
the shelter of a tussock; four eggs are laid,
the ground-color of which is white, almost
obscured by reddish and purplish freckles.
Both species are found all over the continent
(mainly inland). Neither extends to Tas-
mania.
(1) What arc the essential beliefs and
principles of Buddhism? (2) Does the
Buddhist idea of “karma’’ convey the same
idea as the Biblical warnings: “With what
measure ye mete it shall be measured to you
again,” and “Ye must be born again”? —
8307.
(1) Buddhism is a “way of life” lying
between the extremes of unbridled sensual-
ity and sheer asceticism. Individuality and
the desires of the individual are held to
be the root of pain. The eight-fold path
that leads to the passing away of pain
consists of right views, right aspirations,
right speech, conduct and mode of liveli-
hood, right effort, right mindfulness and
right rapture. The three cardinal sins are
sensuality, ill-will and stupidity. (2) The
theory of “karma” is not original with
Buddha, who did not acknowledge the exist-
ence of the soul. He believed, however, as
Plato did, that an influence is exercised on
one life by desire felt in a previous life.
“Karma” is the doing or action in one
life determining the position of the indivi-
dual in the next. The eight-fold path leads
to Arahatship, the escape from “karma,” on
attaining which there is no re-birth.
(1) What gauge wire would be most suit-
able for carrying a current at an E.M.F. of
2 volts for 100 yards? (2) What would
be the voltage drop across Hie conductor?
(3) Approximate cost? —8505.
(1) and (2) Impossible to say. The
gauge of the wire depends upon the current
to be carried and the permissible voltage
drop across its length. In any case, an
E.M.F. of 2 volts would be insufficient for
carrying a current along 200 yards of
metallic conductor (100 yards each way)
except in cases where the current did not
have to exceed a small fraction of an ampere.
In this case the voltage drop across the
conductor would be very small. Thus, 200
yards of No. 16 gauge (0.64 inch) wire has
a resistance of 1.5 ohms, and assuming a
current 0 f 100 milliampefes, the voltage drop
across it will be 1.5 x 0.1 or .15 volts. If
the current is doubled or halved, the voltage
drop will also be doubled or halved. (3)
Depends upon the wire gauge and type of
insulation required (if any).
Brief Answers.
C. 5.8.: “Thus did Etruria grow strong.”
..A.C.P.: (1) The principle applies to classes of
people lather than to individuals. (2) You can
be compelled to pay any wage-tax that is levied,
no matter how high the rate... .P.C.: (1) One.
(2) >No age limit for honors, but there is for
exhibitions. (3) No limit. (4) It is possible to
complete the B.A. course without attending lec-
tures, but this is not recommended. It is necessary
to pass a leaving science or mathematical subject
for matriculation... .A.T.8.: Tell us the name of
the stove and its maker and we may be able to
help P.N.; In 1930 Perth had 97.1 clear days
and 2798.7 mean hours of sunshine; Brisbane: 92,
2663.8; Sydney: 89.9, 2463.9 ; Adelaide: 56.4,
2551.6; Melbourne: 51.2, 2251.8; Hobart: 23.3,
1952.5... .W. 8.; Information not available....
W.D.C.: Would have to see the note before deciding.
. ...H.A.L.: Write Under-Secretary, Department <f
Transport, Canberra, F.C.T., and Charcoal Traction
Engineers Pty., 118 Toorak-road, South Yarra
(Vic.).... A.W.Y.: Write Australian Cement Manufac-
turers’ Assoc., 14 Spring-street, Sydney. ~ .A.M.8.:
(1) Tlie Taxation Department can now assess you
in respect of your 1929-30 income. (2) The
special tax of 71 p.c. on property income applies-to
the income for 1929-30... .F.C.A.: The maker or
vendor of any such preparation is held responsible
for any claims made by him as to medicinal or
curative value. If placed upon the market for
sale it must be labelled with correct description and
full name and address of maker or packer, but the
giving of a guarantee is entirely optional. Any
of the large drug-houses could supply the ingre-
dients... .A.C.: Boil together half-teaspoonful pow-
dered alum and half-pint water. Mix 1 tablespoonful
plain flour to a smooth paste with a little cold
water, and stir it into the boiling liquid. When
clear like starch, remove from the fire and add
half-teaspoonful essence of cloves. Bottle in wide jars
and keep covered from dust... .C.M.: The grafting
of the scarlet flowering-gum on another ecualypt
has often been tried and always proved a failure.
. ...8.L.H.: An aboriginal known as Ricketty Dick
died in his gunyah at Rose Bay, Sydney on June
11, 1863. He was paralysed, and Mr. W. C. Went-
worth paid a man to look after him... .R.M.C. :
Sltamp duties, legal expenses, etc., are charges
against the estate as a whole, before it is distri-
buted among the beneficiaries. It would be wise
to consult a solicitor before taking action....
R.R.: He was elected to Vic. Assembly in 1892 as
member for Bogong, and to the Federal House of
Reps, in 1901 as member for Indi (Vic.)....
H.H.C.: An executor is bound to file accounts
showing how he has dealt with the estate, and is
always liable to account to the persons interested
in the estate. If he refuses to do so you can apply to
the Court to compel him.... W.K.S.: No records
available... .A.M.1.: On marriage a wife takes her
husband’s surname but not his Christian name or
names. She should use her own Christian name. The
use of the husband’s Christian name is a convention,
not a right... .M. 8.: Information obtainable from
Toe H (N.S.W.), 5 Hamilton-street, Sydney.. .
8.W.: Bernice Edwell and Mrs. Gayer Phipps, c/o
Society of Artists, 27 Macquarie-place; Dorothy
Bates, c/o Royal Art Society of N.S.W., 545 George-
street; Oswald E. Paul, 170 King-street—all Syd-
ney. .. .W.H.D.: “Pictorial Golf,’’ by H. D. Martin
(95.), Angus and Robertson... .L.H.: The material
necessary to concrete a 5000-gallon underground
tank, using a mixture of 1 part of cement to 2
parts of sknd. will be approximately 24 bags of
cement (1 ton) and 48 cubic feet of sand....
G.D.R.: The fault is probably with the stand. Iron
tanks should not be cemented internally unless the
stand is of solid masonry E.S.C.: “The Aust.
and N.Z. Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book,” Angus
and Robertson, 2s. 6d., gives details... .R.M.: The
lawful custodian of a child is its father... .G.M.C.:
The road being a public one drovers and others
have a right to use it and are under no legal obli-
gation to close a licensed gate. If purely acci-
dental injury is done to the gate by legitimate
exercise of the right of user you have no ground of
action... .M.D.M.F.: As soon as any of the players
puts down his last domino. .. .E.J.E.: (1) and (2)
Your land does not appear to come within the list
of exceptions in Sec. 132 of the Local Government
Act. Land within 250 yards of the council’s water
pipe is subject to water rates. (3) If
the money was paid with a full knowledge of
the facts, but under a mistake as to law, it cannot
be recovered... .J.A.R.: Take half-pint skimmed
milk, and add to it half-pint vinegar,. which will
form a curd. Beat up the whites of five eggs and
mix into the curd. Add sufficient powdered quick-
lime sifted in and constantly stirred to form a
paste, and use at once before it hardens. Pack
up the breakage with sand or bagging to keep it
in position to 5et....G.C.: (1) If they have been
printed you can claim for payment at your own
convenience. (2) Yes... .R.W.8.W.: Write Under-
secretary, Public Works Dept., Sydney. .. .J.A.R.:
(1) They can be erased if the casing is thick
enough; otherwise they can be filled fairly satis-
factorily. (2) Can’t say without examination.
Submit the watch to a jeweller... .C.W.S.: Write
General Motors-Holden’s, Ltd., 182 William-street,
Sydney... .P. 8.: Sydney Uni. had in 1929 (latest
available figures), 48 professors, 163 lecturers and
demonstrators, and 2520 students. Melbourne Uni.:
29 professors, 148 lecturers and and
2616 students... .C.T.: There were 2386 vessels
(377,384 net tons) on the registers of Australian
States in 1930. Vessels built and registered in
Australia in that year totalled 10 —9 oil-motor and
1 sailing. .. .K.M.C.: (1) Both stingray and stinga-
ree are correct. (2) It is the death- (not deaf)
adder... .J.D.S.: Australian exports (1929-30) to
Japan were valued at £6,555,003 ; to China,
£273,507... .G.K.T. : (1) It is contrary to the
policy of the Government to naturalise Asiatics. (2)
Get in touch with the Registrar-General of Titles in
the State concerned... .C.M.: Write to the princi-
pal of the Warrnambool or Geelong Technical School,
who will be able to advise y0u.... J.C.W.: Get in
touch with wholesale chemists in Melbourne, and,
failing to make a satisfactory arrangement with
them, try Ormond Plant Farm, Ltd., Ormond (Vic.),
or Law Somner, Elizabeth-street. You would find
it very difficult and costly to put the preparation on
the market yourself.... R.C.: (1) Figures not avail-
able. (2) Up to the end of 1929 Australia had
produced £629,666,921 worth of gold.. . .F.M.8.:
There are no books published that could meet your
requirements, but you might find “Plays and Dis-
plays,” first and second series (2s. 6d.), “More Plays”
(2s. 6d.), and “Canadian Scout Camp-fire Song
Book” (Is. 6d.) useful. Obtainable, Scout Shop,
Melbourne... .J.M.F.: Hopes of securing a staff posi-
tion are very remote. Your best plan would be to
engage in freelance work. Success in this sphere
would strengthen your chances of getting a per-
manent position... .N.G.: The best form of binder
for bulky MS. is the loose leaf kind that holds the
pages tightly together with a spring, and without
the necessity of punching holes. Another plan is
to place the MS. between sheets of stout card-
board and clasp the whole together with strong
rubber bands... .K.W.8.: The “Ltd.” does not affect
the usage. “Messrs.” is correct whether the co.’s
liability is limited or not (Many others mailed.)


Blue North
BY
H. Drecke-Brockman.
Synopsis: In 1876 “Handsome Jack''
Fordyce, leaving his extravagant and
discontented wife, Fuphemia, sails
from Fremantle for the Blue North
in search of pearls and freedom. Get-
ting divers, including Nguri, from the
Gascoyne River tribe, he reaches
Cossack. In greeting little Sophie,
forced by tyrannical Ma Gannet to
herd goats, Fordyce raises his hat; she
is captivated. That night in Mark's
pub a fight is averted between For-
dyce and Captain Baia Hudson, a
brutal pearler who can get divers only
by force. Baia is very possessive in
dealing with Bella, the handsome bar-
maid; she is infatuated with Fordyce.
They spend the night together. Meet-
ing again before he sails he is casual,
but she restrains her passion only
because Budson is present. Sophie,
declaring Fordyce is the most wonder-
ful man in tire world, tells Bella of an
innocent visit with him to the Sprite.
Bella, jealous, vows that if Fordyce
will not have her he will not find an
innocent Sophie waiting when he
returns. Anchoring in Beagle Bay,
Fordyce's divers make a good begin-
ning; but of the catch one shell only
contains a pearl. lie is fishing a batik
when Budson arrives. In an alterca-
tion between one of Fordyce’s divers
and one of his (a witch-doctor ), Baia
smashes the former’s hand with an
oar. Fordyce warns him to leave his
crew alone. Later he sees Budson
kill a female diver; but is told by Cap-
tain Mac Koo to forget it. A death-
bone is sent to his injured diver. ,To
cheer his crew Fordyce sails for the
Lacepedes; within sight of them the
cursed diver dies. From Mr. Geddes,
loading guano, Fordyce learns an
audacious Yankee, Roberts, intends
claiming the islands for the U.B.
Although they beat him in a boatrace
to the shore, Roberts is the first to
plant his flag.
CHAPTER XI ( Continued .)
GEDDES straightened, an ugly and
ominous frown distorting his features.
- For a few seconds the knot of British-
ers stared in frozen silence at the alien
token of possession.
“Come along, Fordyce.” Geddes’s voice
broke the spell. “I’ll have a word with the
gentleman.”
He strode off down the beach, and John,
nothing loath, followed behind. Dramati-
cally the American saluted the flag. His
voice rose, somewhat flatly, in the strains
of “The Star-Spangled Banner.” As John
and Geddes came within earshot, he form-
ally annexed the Lacepede Islands in the
name of the United States of America.
Geddes waited for him to finish, then his
voice fell like a lash.
“Now that this little comedy is over,
Mr. Roberts, I’ll trouble you to return
to your ship and set your course for any
other British or foreign possessions you may
fancy to possess. Perhaps it would amuse
you to sing that' ditty on the Isle of Man,
or Tasmania, or Gibraltar, or any other
island you feel an inclination to visit?”
The American strolled across and ran his
eyes over both men with an easy insolence.
“Well, Mr. Geddes, Gilbert C. Roberts
is not the man to disappoint people if he
can help it, but I’m afraid he is not leav-
ing this little spot for some time. And 1
am afraid he also finds himself called upon
to appropriate all cargoes of guano loaded
or loading in the interests of the self-same
Government.”
John looked at Geddes, an impish expres-
sion flashing across his face. The episode
was living up to his best expectations. How
would Geddes take that last impertinence?
For a moment Geddes lost his dignity.
He spluttered incoherently. Then “By the
Lord,” he got out at last, “this farce had
better end.”
“What I thought,” interrupted the drawl-
ing American tones, “when I spotted the
Union Jack. I guess you put on the farce.”
John thought Geddes must strike him
then and there, but with a great effort he
controlled himself.
“That was to get you away without
further fuss.”
“Yes! But you fell in, Mr. Geddes.
Uncle Sam won the race because John Bull
was too slow r getting his feet wet. No, sir,
let us drop this nonsense. You have not
prevailed on these other vessels, and I now"
regard the Lacepede Islands as claimed by
me for the United States. Your cargoes
and theirs are mine.”
“They are not! Good God, wait till you
see my permits.”
“Have they got an American seal on
them? Ah, I thought not. They are not
worth the paper they are printed on.”
“You damned Yankee thief!”
“Take care,' Geddes. I guess you’re for-
getting you stand on American soil.”
“I guess you’ll not forget that you have
profaned Australian soil before my Gov-
ernment and yours have finished! A fine
fool you will make of America!”
So far John had looked on in silence. Now
he put in a word.
“Mr. Geddes is right. You are likely to
make your Government ridiculous.”
An expression of profound contempt
flowed over the American’s countenance.
“Gilbert C. Roberts may be a hustler,
but he does not hustle without a look round
first.” He held out a bundle of papers to
Mr. Geddes. They contained authority from
the American Consul at Melbourne to claim
the Lacepede Islands and annex cargoes of
any ships loading guano.
John longed to punch the smug face of
Roberts watching Geddes read. “I’m not
giving in without a fight,” said he at last.
“These, of course,' are forgeries.”
“They are not.”
“D’you expect me to believe you? You’ll
come into Roebourne with me and see the
Resident before you do a thing. We are
two to one,” he added significantly. “You
will do well to come.”
“What is a Government Resident to me?
I continue to load,” retorted the American.
“I don’t give that for your threats,” and
he snapped his fingers at the Australians.
Talk was of no further use; Geddes and
Fordyce walked slowly and thoughtfully
back to their boat.
“I must get into Roebourne,” said the
former. “I must see the Resident. None
of them have any right here but myself;
yet I hardly like to sail in on the Emily
and leave them a clear field—one never
knows! I don’t suppose”—he looked un-
certainly at John. “Would it take you
much out of your way to drop me into Cos-
sack, Mr. Fordyce?”
“I was not going in for some months.”
“You would be doing me an inestimable
service. I might need your assistance as a
witness. American possessions indeed!”
And so, by reason of Geddes’s impor-
tunity and a desire to see the matter
settled in the interests of his own country,
Fordyce, anticipating also a lively encoun-
ter in Roebourne, allowed himself to be
persuaded.
Just as a chance encounter with Mr. John
Collins on the eve of that gentleman’s
departure with half a dozen escaped con-
victs under his wing had led him to desert
his wife, so once more did an episode in
the history of his State precipitate a crisis
in the history of his private affairs. Had
he not sailed back to the Lacepedes he cer-
tainly would not have returned to Cossack
for months; and had the party called
Roberts not hoisted a flag and generally
behaved like a man in a comic-opera,
Geddes would not have craved his presence.
So thought John Fordyce a few days later,
in the way every man thinks when he
looks back amazed at the chain of circum-
stances which sometimes leads him to the
most significant actions of his life.
The Sea Sprite made Cossack Roads a
few days later. And the first object to
claim John’s attention was Baia Budson’s
three-masted schooner riding at the anchor-
age. And the first thing he learned, on
going up to the store, was of the shocking
fate which had overtaken little Sophie
Gannet.
CHAPTER XII.
Wherein Bella’s wicked jealousy con-
trives calamity.
For days after Sophie left her presence
in a storm of tears Bella brooded over the
girl’s visit to the Sea Sprite. Mark rallied
her; so obviously moody was she that men
drifting in for drinks began to chaff, saying
with winks and nods that it was high time
Baia Budson came inside again. This
served but to fan the flames of Bella’s
passion for John and her equal passion for
revenge. Inside a week she persuaded her-
self the girl alone stood between her and
the man she desired. She all but made
herself believe that a forward and pre-
cocious Sophie had lured away a reluctant
John, so ruthless was she in her determina-
tion to demolish any hint of indifference to
her own charms. Sophie she did not see
again, except as a speck walking behind the
goats high up on the hills; nor did the girl
drive the herd past the hotel on her
journeys to and fro, as had been her wont.
At last Bella could endure her thoughts
no longer. She went —dressed fit to kill,
Mark affably told her—to call on Ma
Gannet.
She found the old captain gazing out over
the creek to the sea. He sat like that by
the hour, with faded eyes fixed on the
horizon, one hand helpless and shrunken,
the other for ever fiddling with the pipe
which Ma allowed him. He smiled his
pleasant smile at Bella, but remembered
her well enough to suppose she had come
to find his little girl. Bella did not waste
time on disillusioning him; she tossed him
a word of greeting and went into the hovel
to find the old woman.
“Ho, now, Miss Fine-feathers!” Ma
Gannet greeted her, keen eyes running over
every detail of dress, whilst a pair of skinny
hands straightened up the chestnut topee.
“You’ll not find Sophie at ’ome. The brat
is doing ’er duty by the goats.”
“But Bella came to see you, Ma. She
thought you might like a snack of this
new beer of Mark’s.” She produced a bottle
from the depths of a capacious bag. “Seeing
how it’s an age and all since you sent down
for a drop.”
Ma was flattered but spiteful. “That it
is, me dear. What with the expenses of
that ninny and his kid—it’s real nice of yer.
But what d’yer want?”
Bella laughed, over-heartily. “Go on with
you for a suspicious old woman! What
would Bella be likely to want?” '
“That there’s no knowing. Most of us
want things. And when a party gives me
anything for no reason I can see, I sez to
meself: ‘Ho, now wot do they want?’”
She shook her head till the dreadful curls
threatened to fall from their precarious
perch. “And I generally finds out!”
“Well, Bella could do with a drink. It’s
a stiff, hot climb up here.”
The old woman cackled and went in
search of mugs. She poured out a small tot
and took it to Peter. “That’ll do him,” she
said, draining her own mug. “It’s too good
to waste on a softie!”
The women sat and talked and drank in
the broiling room; and, as the beer loosened
Ma’s tongue, Bella’s heart leapt to hear
about the longed-for shop in Fremantle and
the smallness of the sum which alone pre-
vented Ma from clearing out on the first
ship going south.
“Pooh, that’s nothing,” she cried. “It’s
easy enough to get money up here. Why,
the other day Baia Budson gave me a
couple of pearls worth far more than you
need.”
“Ho! Wait till you’re my age, me dear,”
sneered the hag. Bella’s eyes fell from her
withered face and a shudder for an instant
chilled her. “Pearls won’t come so easy!”
Thus easily, spurred anew by the pro-
phetic horror of Ma’s words, Bella found
an opening.
“Oh, Bella wasn’t thinking of you, Ma,”
she sniggered contemptuously, glad to hurl
the barbed arrow from her own breast back
to Ma’s. “You don’t mean to tell me
Sophie doesn’t give you the presents she
gets?”
She was sitting as she spoke, but she
sprang to, her feet and backed away before
the venom which convulsed Ma’s features.
The hag’s lips worked, her scrawny neck
twitched.
“Sophie!” screeched her high voice. “The
baggage! What are you talking about?
What do you know, Bella? What do you
know?”
Still edging towards the door, Bella let
fall the bomb she had come to drop.
“Oh,” she said, with a little nervous laugh,
“I thought you knew. Why, you’re as soft
as old Peter—though I must say the young
’un is pretty cute. Bella even didn’t guess
till the chit went off to his schooner with
that new fellow, Handsome Jack!”
She muffled a cry as the old captain sud-
denly appeared in the doorway. The sound
of Sophie’s name had dragged him from his
dreams and slowly he had shuffled to the
door. His shrunken form menaced the two
excited women.
“Now then, you two, I won’t have you
talking about Sophie. Let her alone; she’s
mine. You’re neither of you fit to men-
tion her name —let alone talk to her. O
God!” he groaned.
Dignity and menace fled as he sagged
against the doorpost, but flared again to
order Bella out. And out she went; after
all, her mission was accomplished and
sight of the old man’s gallant love for his
child was like salt on a raw wound.
As she left she heard Peter cursing Ma
with something of the vigor of his seafaring
days; she did not know that, his fury spent,
he collapsed and allowed the hag to put
him to bed, crying like a child.
But before long all Cossack knew that
Sophie Gannet was not the innocent child
they thought her. Ma saw to that.
Sophie stayed much by herself. Desper-
ately unhappy, her thin little face grew so
wistful that Mrs. Coffey again thought of
speaking to her husband on the matter.
But when she broached the subject Coffey
looked at her strangely and said: “Oh, I
wouldn’t worry over Sophie, me dear.” He
seemed on the point of saying more 4 when
a customer banged on the counter and he
left to serve. Yet lonely as she was, Sophie
could hardly help coming in contact with
some of the men, however much she avoided
the pub and its environs. As day after
day passed by, she began to wonder why
they looked at her so strangely, why one
or two made queer remarks which brought
the ever-ready blood to her cheeks.
But of all her torments Ma’s filthy
tongue was the worst. Ma, it appeared, had
found out about that visit to Mr. Fordyce’s
schooner, and, just like Bella, seemed to
wait to hear she knew not what of horror.
Whenever her tormentor could catch her
away from Peter, which was not often, since
the two clung together, she talked of it,
calling her words too hideous to think
about. But these were snatches, moments
too brief for Ma’s satisfaction, though
hours to the shuddering mind of Sophie.
One evening she waited till Peter was
snoring and the child in bed. Sophie pre-
tended to be asleep when she felt the old
woman bending over her. But it was no
use. A rough hand shook her awake.
“Now, Miss,” her voice whispered hoarsely,
“I’m going to hear all about these goings
on. I don’t hold with slyness.”
Terror turned the child to ice. It was
so dark, Ma’s voice so hard and cruel. She
crept out her hand for her cat, then heard
the thud of soft paws springing to the
ground. Even her pussy had deserted her!
Suddenly she cried out shrilly:
“I don’t know what you mean. Let go!”
Ma’s nails bit into the flesh of her arm.
“Shut yer mouth! I’ll not have Peter
wakened. Ho, so yer don’t know, don’t yer?
Well, it’s high time yer did, in this country.
And considering all it takes ter feed and
clothe yer, yer can take it from me I think
yer a low, ungrateful hussy. There was I
a-lookin’ after yer like a mother and
thinkin’ yer good, like Peter, and all the
time!” She gave a throaty chuckle,
more horrible to Sophie’s ears than the
harshest tones of hate. “But, fer the matter
o’ that, so did lots more I could name.
Come now, dearie,” she wheedled, “what
did he give yer?”
“He didn’t give me anything! Why
should he?”
“Then I’ll see him when he comes in and
ask him what he means by it.”
“Ma Gannet, please!” The girl’s voice
was a prayer.
“Well, what did ’e mean by taking yer
out there?”
«X—l—oh, it’s all Bella!” the child cried.
“She’s told everybody something horrible.
Oh, why did I tell her?” Sophie’s frozen
terror melted. The old woman snorted with
disgust and went inside. .
Was Bella wrong? Looked like it, mighty
like it!
But from out this morass of conjecture
rose one solid fact. Sophie was growing up
—why, Mrs. Toledo had had her first baby
before she was fifteen! Out of the past
rolled an ugly memoiy. The old woman
looked at it and shuddered. Crouched like
a tarantula over her gold, she wove from
the ball of thought given her by Bella a
web of iniquity as that young woman had
meant she should.
When Baia came in Bella was ready. She
teased him—even dared to taunt him with
John Fordyce.
“That fish!” roared Budson. “Went for
me like hell over the gins! Plaster saint
he is. I’d like to see him lining up to you!”
Bella forced down an inclination to
scream out that she loved John. Instead,
she said slowly: “He’s more likely to line
up to Sophie Gannet.”
Baia’s laugh made the glasses jump.
“That child!” But when he was quite
drunk—although he could still walk straight
as a Guardsman—his eyes, brown and red
and wicked, dilated as he lurched out.
Bella ran into her bedroom and leant from
the dark window. In the moonlight she
saw him marching up towards Ma Gannet’s
hovel.
She got into bed but could not sleep.
Budson had been almost the last to leave
the bar. How she wished the place were
still packed with men so she might escape
her thoughts! She jumped at a tap on the
window, petrified until she heard a croak
of: “Bella, it’s Ma Gannet.”
She was out in an instant, the candle lit.
More like a spider than ever, the old woman
crawled over the low sill. As she helped
her in Bella felt the thin body shaking.
“I come away,” she muttered. “He told
me to clear out, but I wouldn’t have stayed
if he’d given me twice as much.”
For answer the hag emptied gold on to
the bed, tossing down last of all a match-
box of small pearls. “He give me that
box of pearls!” she said as she dropped it.
The women stared! at each other in
silence.
CHAPTER XIII.
W herein John Fordyce forsakes
freedom and turns knight-errant.
Once again John Fordyce sat down to tea
with Mrs. Coffey. He and Geddes had
climbed straight up to the store, eager to
see if a mail had arrived from south. Easy
enough to crave unlimited freedom, easy
enough to forget the world out on a blue
and dazzling sea, yet the moment his foot
struck earth John wondered what news
there might be of the civilisation he had
left so joyfully. The good lady was in the
store at the time of their entrance —nothing
would satisfy her but that Mr. Fordyce
and Mr. Geddes drink a cup of tea.


CIRCULAR QUAY to OXFORD CIRCUS
via Broadway!
SYDNEY to LONDON
by way of AMERICA!
‘HE red-and-green plaid of
Auckland beneath Mount Eden
. . . Suva’s startling, skirted traffic
police ... the sheer, volcanic walls
of Pago Pago harbour, fringed with
palms . . . Waikiki’s glistening
strand . . . little glimpses into great
mysteries then San Francisco.
Choose your own route across
America: north, topping the majes-
tic Rockies, or south, through Los
Angeles, Hollywood, and the paint-
ed desert lands. Then: Chicago’s
roaring Loop . . . the proud dignity
of Washington . . . the syncopated
dazzle of New York’s Great White
Way!
Luxurious Matson liners offer sea-
travel filled with that solid con-
tentment born of knowing that
they are run for your comfort and
pleasure. Superb service, giving
you fresh, airy staterooms, de-
licious meals, delightful music and
healthful sports.
May we send you an illustrated
booklet and full particulars?
Write to Dept. Al.
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney,
Telephone: B 7981-3,
Tw
* s -
y ... - &
"Him o'wm I
The El Mirador, alluring desert
hostelry at Palm Springs, Cali-
fornia.
COM INC OVERSEAS EVENTS
NATIONAL FOREICN
TRADE CONVENTION
Honolulu, May 4th to 6th, 1932
EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
Dublin, Ireland, June 23rd to
26th. 1932
Book via MATSON for the
utmost in travel comfort, pleas?
ure and convenience.
mm
] Mm
V
m
m
i&oip
Above.—Treasures of art
from the corners of the
world are in New York’s
renowned Metropolitan Mu-
seum.
Right.—lndian Chief in the
regalia of the Klamath
tribe, picturesque aborigines
in the State of Oregon.
$
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner“ Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
This time John went willingly. The
prospect of tea creamy with fresh goat’s
milk more than made up for Mrs. Coffey’s
garrulous tongue; he smiled a little, won-
dering if already the fine threads of petty
interests were winding him into a cocoon
within whose snug walls he would think of
no other world than the one he could see;
for he found gossip of the port uncommonly
attractive.
Mrs. Coffey sat on the verandah, perched
high above the mouth of the creek, whence
John gazed straight down at the inrushing
tide, away across to Jarman Island, with
its low red cliffs. A number of boats rode
at anchor; the dinghies plying to and fro,
the shouts of binghis and Malays, the
stacks of pearl-shell on the foreshore made
a bright and busy scene. He stretched
luxuriously, asking permission to smoke.
It was a good life; he rejoiced again at
the temerity which had made him choose it.
“Won’t you have another cup of tea, Mr.
Geddes?” asked Mrs. Coffey.
“I fear I must go in search of horses,
Madam. Are you coming, Fordyce?”
“I cannot resist another cup. I’ll join
you later,” said John as Geddes went off
alone. “Your tea is delicious, Mrs. Coffey.”
“And would you believe that it is not
long since the Resident wrote down and
said the sooner our goats were all dead the
better! I for one don’t know where we’d
be without them. I do like my cup of tea,
Mr. Fordyce!”
“There hardly seems much to fear,
Madam. I’ve seen more goats in Cossack
than I imagined in the whole of Australia.
And, by the w r ay, I spoke to a child who
was herding some of them when I was
here before—a nice little girl called Sophie
Gan'net, if I remember rightly. Struck me
as extraordinary to find a white girl doing
that. Couldn’t it be stopped?”
Blood rose in Mrs. Coffey’s cheeks. John
glanced up into a countenance where em-
barrassment and indignation strove for
mastery.
“It has stopped,” she answered in a
queer voice.
“That is good.” Astonished, John dropped
his eyes in pity for an emotion he could
not probe.
“Oh, if only it were!” The pain in her
cry made "him stare once more. He saw
tears arise, tremble a moment before mean-
dering down her plump cheeks whilst she
sought hastily for a handkerchief.
“Oh, Mr. Fordyce,” she murmured, “you
must excuse me for behaving in this unbe-
coming manner, but I love little Sophie. I
was teaching her to read, And whenever
I think of it—oh, it is shocking! I thank
the dear Lord every night on my bended
knee that he sent me no daughters.”
John wondered uncomfortably what this
might preface. Some wretched tale of
cruelty, he supposed, which he would rather
not hear, as he had liked the girl and
would be powerless to help.
Mrs. Coffey regained her composure; 'he
felt she wanted him to force her to tell
something she thought she should not.
“A shocking affair, a most appalling
affair,” sighed she. “Poor Sophie!”
Lines round John’s mouth hardened:, his
dancing blue eyes grew cold. She meant
to tell him; best get it over then!
“What is it?” he asked rather brusquely.
“Oh, Mr. Fordyce! It’s a thing no lady
would dream of telling a gentleman in the
South.”
“We are not in the South, Mrs. Coffey.
What is it?” John had just remembered
his horrible dream; a sense of fear slid
over him. Budson’s schooner lay in the
creek; he felt he knew what he was about
to hear.
“Oh, I don’t know what to say”.... She
fluttered like a fat and agitated hen. “Have
you heard of Captain Budson?”
“I have met the gentleman,” replied
John in a voice so stern his hostess re-
garded him with surprise.
“A horrid person, Mr. Fordyce, and a
very wicked man. He” She hesitated
again.
John helped her out. “Is he trying to
interfere with Sophie?”
“Trying! All the men are up in arms,
the whole port is in a ferment over it. He
has been living up at Gannet’s ever since
he came in a week ago.”
John stood up. He felt sick. Sophie
smiling at him in the cabin of the Sprite.
Sophie’s clear, wide eyes and shy friendli-
ness. _ Baia in the bar at Mark’s. Baia
prowling round on the deck of his schooner.
Baia roaring at the natives. The helpless
brown hands of the gin Annie paddling
water beneath the shadow of a lifted oar.
All these things rushed chaotically through
his mind. The man was a devil.
John marched up the verandah. He had
to move. Then he came back and stood
towering over the fat little woman. He had
expected something unpleasant—this was
unbearable.
“You say everyone is up in arms. Why
was such a thing allowed?”
“Who could stop it?”
“You!”
Mrs. Coffey looked into her lap.
“What about the girl herself?”
“No one sees her—that is why I won’t
believe ill of her. Not a soul has set eyes
on the poor thing since Baia came in. Oh
if only I had guessed!”
Her ineffectual wail enraged John. He
pictured the unfortunate little girl strug-
gling in the morass of a misery which made
her hide from every eye.
“What about her father? I’ll go to him
about it—surely he could do something!
Is. he quite imbecile?”
“Old Peter is dead. He was buried the
day after Captain Budson’s return. Some
folks hint he struck the old man.”
“Good God! And no one cares?”
“Oh, yes they do! Captain Budson isn’t
popular. He’ll overstep the mark some day,
Mr. Fordyce. A bullet in the back or a hit
with a mangrove stump will be the end of
him, Coffey always says.”
“Do you really mean to tell me nothing
can be done?”
Mrs. Coffey would not meet his eye. “It
is an extremely delicate situation, Mr. For-
dyce. No one has seen Sophie and—it is
hard to know.”
John saw she was quoting her husband.
Budson, with his station and schooner, was
sure to be one of his best customers. What
a damnable world! The one woman who
might help was of no use. Bella he dis-
missed as unworthy of consideration.
He strode down the hill to meet Geddes,
his brain more occupied by this latest
human problem than with the sovereignty
of the Lacepede Islands. He could not
believe ill of that shy child, but of Baia
Budson he would believe anything. And
had not Sophie’s prattle let him guess at
the nature of the woman with whom she
lived?
John mooned about waiting for Geddes.
He felt unable to go near the pub, where
he would probably hear the same tale over
again—and not so delicately as from Mrs.
Coffey’s lips. It was not more than nine
in the morning, yet the sun struck unmerci-
fully; the breeze, sweeping across the
mirage-haunted plains, blowing down the
ironstone hillocks, was hot as the breath of
Hell. He walked round the stone Customs
Ifouse looking for a yard of shade, and
stumbled over a figure lying prone.
“Hey, watch yer step, Mister,” said an
aggrieved voice. “When a man can’t git
out of the way he don’t expect ter be
walked on!”
A man, a sailor, sat up, and John noticed
a manacle clamping his leg to a post beside
the wall.
“I beg your pardon,” said he. “I was
not aware of your inconvenient position.
Might I ask”
“Wind me up on the windlass! You must
be a new ’un! Man, yer standing in her
Majesty’s Gaol!”
“Gaol?”
“Yis, sir! And me name’s Joe Creeper,
and I’m run in fer hitting the police when
drunk and disorderly, and ’ere I stays till
I go inter Roebourne or his nibs feels
better and lets me off.” He jerked his head
towards a tent, which John supposed to
belong to the police. “And I could do with
a beer now, I don’t mind telling yer. Tor-
ture, that’s wot it is, to truss a chap here
where he can’t even git sight of the pub!
If only I had a mate I’d do what’s bin done
before now—dig up this ’ere post and cart
it down, chains and all, fer a taste o’ some-
thing wet.”
Reaction made John laugh. The grey-
beard, squatting with back to the post,
arms folded, surveyed him calmly, looking
more like a venerable professor than a
drunk and disorderly seaman.
“What would happen if I fetched you up
a bottle?” asked John. “I’m uncommonly
thirsty myself.”
“You might try it and see,” suggested
the other beaming. “Peeler’s not at ’ome;
he’s left the nigger ter wait on me and git
me dinner.”
But John saw Mr. Geddes come out of
the hotel and look about.
“Good-bye, I see a man waiting for me,”
said he. “No luck this time; but remem-
ber the drinks are on me when we meet
again, Mr. Creeper!”
He was still smiling when he joined
Geddes.
(To be continued next week.)
Any Man to Any Woman: A Reply.
You have been shielded by my arm
In caves which echoed to the roar
Of purple apes; to your alarm
I jested, quaking at the door.
The Terrors passed, you shuddered yet
To hear the dread remembered sound;
I kissed your eyes, your lashes met.
You did not see my open wound.
I brought you skins that cost my blood.
And wrought you rings for all your toes;
From out the loathly, living mud,
„ I plucked for you this earth’s first rose
My shoulder bent to your dear weight
Along the cruel roads of Rome;
To close your ears to screaming hate
My parched lips whispered songs of home.
When from the dusty lists I came
In battered armor, wet with gore,
You did not heed your champion’s fame,
But only knew his wounds were sore.
O tender hands that held my heart!
O heart where beamed the sacred flame!
O mind that, pierced by many a dart,
Would never know your loved one’s shame!
Beside your giving, Mother, Wife,
My gifts were little things and vain;
But from your melody of life
I learnt the rapture of love’s pain.
So, when to me you voice the fret
Of sorrow’s misty, hollow land,
I smile and draw you closer yet—
As all true lovers understand!
N.S.W.
D. L. M. M.


Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
° J. c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: BLUE ROSES.
CRITERION: BRIGHT SIDE UP
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Brilliant revival of
CHOCOLATE SOLDIER
With GLADYS MONCRIEFF.
KING’S THEATRE:
THE BARRETTS OF WIMPOLE
STREET
With MARGARET RAWLINGS.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Towards the close of the autumn racing
carnival in Victoria local horses to some
extent recovered their prestige. Visiting
candidates captured the Newmarket Handi-
cap and Australian Cup, together with the
Sires’ Produce Stakes (most valuable ot
the juvenile events) ; but Middle Watch
downed Ammon lia in the St. Beger, Adit,
(owned in Adelaide) was the only “for-
eigner” who scored on the Wednesday, and
four of the last-day contests resulted in
favor of the home division. Melbourne turf
followers applaud the Australian Cup being
run on a Saturday instead of Tuesday. Pil-
grims from other States, however, view the
matter differently. They complain of having
to unduly prolong an autumn holiday. O. F.
Wilson, the A.J.C. liandicapper, was obliged
to await the final fall of the curtain because
of a number of Sydney Cup horses sporting
silk in the 2£-mile handicap.
South Australian thoroughbreds have
dominated the Australian Cup in recent
years. Three seasons ago Some Quality
was followed home by Ividaides, who was
runner-up again in 1930, when Nadeau
scored. New South Wales carried off first
honors in 1931, but White Nose and St.
Mary filled the minor places. On Saturday
last Madstar finished first and Blatherskite
third respectively, being split by the bonny
Vic. mare, Mira Donna, who carried the
next highest impost to Second Wind and
conceded Madstar a year in age and 181 b.
in weight. Blatherskite was favorite in an
open betting race. Always near the front,
he took charge when Nadeau tired, but was
joined at. the home turn by Madstar, who
had to be ridden right out to beat Mira
Donna by half a length.
Australian Cup victory of the 25-to-l
chance, Madstar, shows what a queer game
horseracing is. His three owners, who live
at Millicent (S.A.), were .so elated at the
Stardrift gelding’s successes in the Port
Adelaide Cup of 1929 and the New lear
Bert : ''Have a cigarette. , Qert"
Gert : " thanks'
Be-RT '. the Best
SMOKES OUT,"
G, G rt: ""WHAT ARE THEy LIKE
«* WHEN LIGHTED T"
Gift at Morphettville a month later that
they sent him across to Victoria six months
in advance of the last Melbourne Cup to be
specially prepared for that. race by R. Sin-
clair at Williamstown. The only Melbourne
race in which Madstar showed to the least
advantage prior to Saturday was the Bond
Cup at Caulfield on February 13. Subse-
quently W. Duncan rode him to ill effect at
Flemington. It would appear that R. Med-
hurst alone knows how to handle the geld-
ing. lie allowed Madstar to saunter along
for seven furlongs, and be third last at the
turn out of the straight. Rapid progress
was made thereafter.
Inducement and Vertigern finished just
behind the place-getters in the Australian
Cup, but neither ever looked dangerous.
Some improvement in form was revealed by
Inducement, and he may do better on return-
ing to Sydney. The display of Second Wind
was exceedingly disappointing. He had 9.11
to carry, and it may have been an error in
tactics for W. Duncan to keep him near the
leaders in the early stages. Ividston, owned
by knight Sidney Kidman, the “cattle king,”
would have figured in the finish if her little
jockey could have done justice to the Pistol
mare. Bay of Biscay, another Adelaidean,
shaped so well that, if produced again for
the V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle this year,
he will be among the prime fancies. The
visible jumping talent in Melbourne at
present is nothing to boast about.
Jim Pike had an unenjoyable time at
Flemington last Saturday. Greenline un-
seated him in the mounting yard, and Water-
line dumped him at the start of the C. M.
Lloyd Stakes. It was not a vicious act on
the part of “S. A. Rawdon’s” prad, who had
the misfortune to stumble. The race resulted
in a very decisive victory for Ammon Ra.
whose admirers were able to get “set” at
5 to 4 on, consequent on the Maorilander
having suffered defeat in the St. Leger. He
would have been at an even better price if
Middle Watch had not been withdrawn. W.
Cook made matters easy for the favorite by
allowing Ammon Ra to slip up on the inside
of Chatham coming to the turn. This pair
had a splendid struggle up to a furlong from
home, where Ammon Ra drew clear and
brought his total stake earnings up to
£24,100 10s. by a 2i| lengths’ victory. Chat-
ham beat Johnnie Jason by only half a
head for second honors. “Ike” Foulsham
was pleased with Chatham’s performance,
and the trainer of Johnnie Jason also had
reason for satisfaction.
Jim Scobie wanted to run Greenline m the
C. M. Lloyd Stakes, but owner L. S. Barnett
regarded the Leonard Stakes as easy money.
Backed down to 2 to 1, Greenlme made a
magnificent effort with his, 10.9, but lost by
half a neck to the much-improved Dominant,
who cost 6750gns. as a yearling. Greenlme
will remain in Melbourne for the Quality
Handicap at Moonee "V alley on Eight Hours
Day (Monday next) and then rejoin the
stable of James Barden in Sydney.
I*, # * *
Fancies for Caulfield, Saturday
St. Kilda Handicap: Kidston or Blather-
skite.
South Yarra Handicap: Einga or Stephen.
Pavilion and Myles-la-Coplen did not
shape like Doncaster horses at Rosehill on
Saturday, and have receded in the betting,
such as it is, on the A.J.C.’s rich handicap.
Both seemed to stand out from the field for
the Westmead Handicap at the Parramatta
course, and McShortodds called evens Pavi-
lion, 3 to 1 the gelding from Queensland, 5
Casque d’Or and 12 Rafflight, who is trained
by George Price. Before they had gone a
furlong at no great pace (the six took
1.13) the favorite was last. She gradually
improved her position, but not very bril-
liantly, and at the finish was a neck behind
the third horse, Charalf (15 to 1), who had
made the running with Rafflight till he
dropped back beaten ; Rafflight was three
lengths in advance of Casque d’Or, who
finished rather well. Myles-la-Coplen was
never prominent.
Sydney punters will perhaps give Miles-la-
Coplen another chance, but they have had
enough of his stable-companion, Beelbee. The
Queensland Cup winner was backed, at
sevens, for the Club Handicap, and led for
about a mile, but then petered out badly,
finishing fifth in a field of seven. Chide won
easily from Magnetic and Strength in the
good time, for 11 furlongs, of 2.191. Five to
two was a nice price considering the opposi-
tion: one man offered 3 to 1 when they had
gone a couple of furlongs. The reason was
that a little-known boy named Egli was in
the saddle. As a matter of fact he rode
Chide a. capital race, and will get more
mounts in future. Trautwein, who owns
Chide, landed a double: his two-year-old High
Sun (3 to 1), by imported Royal Sun, with
whom he captured a few races about Sydney,
got home in a division of the Juvenile
Stakes.
Three-year-olds were in the ascendant in
the last two races, Bold Boy (9 to 2)
taking the Trial Stakes and Ethics (7 to 1)
the Rydalmere Handicap. Ethics (brother
to Magnetic) lias been raced into perfect
condition, and, thanks to that, he outstayed
Ptolemy, who was giving his first glimpse
of form since the Chelmsford Stakes, m
which he was a fast-finishing second (beat-
ing Veilmond) to Ammon Ra. After that
he went to pieces. He is not a robust
fellow by any means.
* * * *
For Roschill on Saturday:—
Three- and Four-year-old Handicap:
Jacko; next, Sun Eagle or Sir Duninald.
Rawson Stakes: Ammon Ra; next, Veil-
mond.
Railway Handicap : Winooka; next, May-
be or Sir Duninald.
Autumn Handicap: Century Tire; next,
Flinders.
Parramatta Mile: Sun Eagle or Cylanta;
next, Black Douglas.
“Retired Urger” : The people behind Pliar
Lap seem to be playing the same game in
America as endeared them so much to the
punting public towards the end of the horse’s
Australian career, when he was suddenly
scratched for the Caulfield, and the public
were kept on the verge of uncertainty up
to the last moment as to whether he would
be started in the Melbourne Cup. American
sport-writers are getting tired of the mys-
terious secrecy observed in connection with
the horse, and want to know whether “all
the palaver” is to boom the Agua Caliente
Handicap or to manipulate the betting odds.
Meanwhile there are dark rumors of a
bruised foot, and the special writer sent by
a Sydney journal all the way to Mexico,
depression or no depression, to report the
doings of one of the nation’s heroes may
find his labor in vain.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Sydney Al Singleton (8.64) was picked as
a good thing for Pablo Dana (8.4) at
Leichhardt last Friday, but the local lad
surprised and gave the Filipino quite a
fight for three or four rounds. Dana’s greater
experience told as the fifth opened, and he
delivered most of the punishment, until a
right to the ribs upset Singleton in round
nine. Scrambling up, Singleton had no
sooner struck a stance than another, right
which seemed to land flush on the kidneys
knocked him out for the full count.
$ =l= * #
* Russian Tom Lunch (14.2) and Italian
Leon Labriola (14.3) dispensed with the
caveman stuff to which Leichhardt Stadium
patrons have become accustomed when they
met . on Saturday, and to emphasise then-
disapproval of real wrestling the spectators
counted the gladiators out. Lurich won a
fall with his flying tackle less than five
seconds after the struggle started. Both
stuck to straight wrestling, and the count-
ing-out continued until Labriola’s body-
press in round six evened the falls, and the
match was declared a draw.
* * * *
“Mitt Shovel-” : According to latest advices
from America, the erstwhile boxing cham-
pion Jimmy Clabby is not dead, after all,
though liis demise was cabled all over the
world. Jimmy i.s in even worse case, appa-
rently, for his wife, whom he married in
Maoriland years ago, is suing for divorce
on the ground of drunkenness and cruelty,
and for the custody of the two children, with
whom she intends to return to her homeland.
The ex-champion is absolutely ln-oke, accord-
ing to his own story.
The In 3 and Outs
In the final round of the Sheffield Shield
series, which opened in Melbourne between
South Australia and Victoria last week-end,
the home side established a decided advan-
tage by stumps on Saturday. South Aus-
tralia opened well, Vic Richardson and
Nitschke putting up 111 when Nitsclike went
for 54. Richardson soon followed with 69,
and after that, with the exception of Lon-
ergan (72) and ’keeper Walker (35) the
rest did little. Fleetwood Smith followed
up his success against South Africa by tak-
ing 7 for 101 with his left-hand slows.
Though minus Wood full, Victoria soon col-
lared the. visiting bowling, helped thereto
by a minor injury that kept Grimmett off
the field for some time. Wall bowled well,
however, and had 4 for 77 when play ended
on Saturday in a total of 364 for 5 wickets.
The left-handers Darling and Oakley scored
100 and 104 n.o. respectively. Other useful
contributors were O’Brien (57), Lee (36)
and a’Beckett (28 n. 0.). Rain prevented
play on Monday.
Maoriland did better in their second Test
with the Springboks at Wellington, running
up the respectable score of 364. Vivian
topped with 100, while Dempster (64) and
Badcock (53) also got among the runs. Mc-
Millan (5-125) again proved the most dan-
gerous of the visiting bowlers. The Afri-
kanders made a shaky start, but Cameron
(44), Viljoen (81) and Dalton (42) took
the shine off the bowling. The young Kim-
berley Greek Balaskas seized his chance
and played a hurricane shot for 122 not out.
The ’Boles finished with 410, Vivian taking
4 for 58.
“Bramall Lane” : England in her time has
entertained many different brands of cricket-
ers. The first outlanders were our own
aboriginals, who were followed by the white-
pfeller Australians. Since then Parsees, West
Indians, Americans, South Africans and
Canadians have come and gone. An Indian
side is due this season, and there will be
an opposition show from South America,
where the game is very popular, especially
in the Argentine. It will be skippered by
C. H. Gibson who was here with McLaren’s
M.C.O. side in 1922. Gibson, who at that
time was a Test-match “hope,” showed him-
self a good all-rounder, his bowling being
particularly impressive.
The South African cricketers are due
back in Sydney shortly, and will be fare-
welled by the N.S.W. Association before
starting on the long trek to Westralia, where
they play their last match of the tour against
the State at Perth. The first game between
the two at the beginning of the season was
a draw, the local men being hard put to
it to save the game in their last innings.
Three of the Afrikanders are on their way
back. Van der Merwe and Steyn left for
the Cape a month ago by the Westralian
route, and Herbert Taylor is not returning
from M.L., but will make for home via
Canada.
“Iconoclast”: The N.S.W. cricket heads
have weightily decided to issue a special
“honor blazer” to players who have served
the State faithfully and well on the stricken
field of cricket. This will differ slightly from
that awarded to the rabbits who pop in and
out of every representative team. _ It is
also being suggested that the principle be
extended to the Test field, those who play
against England being more highly deco-
rated, so to speak, than those who have only
figured against such weak sides as South
Africa or the West Indies. The writer’s
opinion is that not only the cricketers but
the entire community is so blazer-stricken
that to add any more would verge on a
national calamity.
* * * -f
“Tenth Slip”: Some of Australia’s cricket
experts are inclined to scoff at the assertion
of A. E. Gilligan, who led England against
Australia in this country in 1924-25, that
England will probably win the next series
of Test matches. There is a good deal in
what he says. The chief factors in the over-
setting of the South Africans were Grim-
mett and Ironmonger, and left-hand bowling,
however good, has few terrors for English
batsmen. Unless Ponsford picks up his
form, Woodfull and Bradman, with per-
haps Ivippax and McCabe, will have to get
the runs. The English batting right down
the card is sure to. be better than ours, and
their bowling is likely to be more varied
and generally formidable unless some of
our end-of-the-season “finds” turn up trumps.
Bradman is due for a bad trot, too. The
idea that he can go on for ever needs quali-
fying. The same has been said of Trumper,
Macartney and Ponsford, yet they have all
drawn a blank season on occasion, and the
N.S.W. batsman will surely get his turn.
(Continued on page 81.)
“Cash Amateur” : The Australian Olympic
committee has taken the very sensible course
of sending this country’s representatives to
Los Angeles second-class, as far as the
steamer journey is concerned. Of course,
there has been the usual uproar about loss
of dignity, humiliation of the athletes, and
insult to the nation. Rats! If our athletes
are such confounded snobs as to feel
humiliated at being asked to travel second
they are likely to do the, country more good
by staying at home than by airing their
social superiority abroad. More than one
Australian athlete in the past has not been
ashamed to travel even more humbly than
as a second-class passenger. One at least, Jim
Stanbury, world’s champion sculler, made
one journey to England as a fireman in the
stokehold, and was glad of the opportunity.
s': * * *
“Stand Off”: The four Australian Rugby
Unions are starting the new season with
improved prospects. ,Westralia reports in-
creased interest in the game and the forma-
tion of additional clubs. They want a game
against the Australian team en route to
South Africa, and will probably get it. In
Melbourne, after a prosperous run last year
which left a good l bank balance, a number of
new clubs are joining up, and the adoption
of the game as the official one for the
military and naval units lias led to the
formation of the United Services Rugby
Association, affiliated to the Victorian R.U:
The annual report of the N.S.W. Union
shows a profit of £565 for last season, and
£250 of this has been earmarked for . ex-
penses in connection with the South African
tour. The opening inter-State match with
Queensland will be in Brisbane on May 14,
and the All Blacks will get going in Sydney
against N.S.W. on June 25. . Queensland
sounds a similar note of optimism, and the
game there is spreading fast in the country
centres, which a year or so ago played noth-
ing but League.
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian eight-oar cham-
pionship was won by Albert Park. Haw-
thorn was second, two lengths away, with
luercantile third. The time for the 2% miles
was 16min. lOsec. The sculling title went
to C. Peppier, of Yarra Yarra club, who
won easily by 10 lengths in the record time
for a championship event of 15min. 18 2-ssec.
The next best for the course was Barton’s
15min. 28sec. in 1921. Like Peppier, on
this occasion, Barton then had the assist-
ance of a fast outgoing tide. Pearce’s best
time for a championship event is 15min.
30 2-ssec., but Bobby has yet to see the
oarsman who can make him really travel.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: One interesting result of
Lindrum’s triumphal tours of Britain is the
tremendous improvement his example has
effected in the play of the British profes-
sionals. So marked is this that Walter him-
self admits that, in the ease of Davis and
Newman at least, he cannot now give away
7000 start in a fortnight’s match, and will
in future probably drop the concession to
6000. Those who remember the Maorilander
Clark McConachy in Australia, before and
after a dose of Lindrum, will easily realise
that to play Walter is a liberal education
to the billiards professional.


“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS!”
Repairs.
Firearms sent 0.0. D.
ê
TROUT FISHING
The “Indiana-Matuka” will catch Trout
when all other Flies fail. Colors: Red
and White, Black and Red, Brown,
Orange and Black. Price, each .. 2/-
Sil Rohu’s High Standard of Quality
Firearms and Fishing Tackle is well
known throughout Australia. If con-
sidering the purchase of any of these
goods, write for Catalogue (Firearm —
500 illustrations, or Fishing Tackle —
200 illustrations).
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 b ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540.
“FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING-”
1*
Pyrox Plugs are made in Australia
to Bosch standards by Bosch pro-
duction methods—so you KNOW
they MUST be better!
Sold by all garages and accessory houses.
Manufactured by
PYROX PTY., LTD.
(Formerly Robert Bosch Supply and Service Co. Pty., Ltd.),
MELBOURNE.
The “HIGHLANDER”
A dual purpose
SHIRT.
Made of strong Cotton Twill
Shirting. Suitable for work
or all classes of sport.
Ideal for golf. Available in
six colorful designs, with
dark grey and green grounds
with contrast checks.
Exclusive to Pike QI £*
Brothers. Price ... v/ w
Three for 27/6
Ties to Match, 4/6
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET , BRISBANE.
Ti. _ fns and Outs
The South Africans followed up their
, f Auckland by a convincing win over
Maoritod fn ‘“firs! Teat, at Christchurch
Maoiiiana innings and 12
winch went, «y Qf 243> after three
fallen for 33, was due to a deter-
mined feht by the later batsmen, all of whom
ran to double figures save ’keeper James.
The ex-Hampshire professional Badcock op-
scored with 64, and was backed by Roberts
(54) and Weir (46). A splendid opening
stand by Christy (103) and MitchelF (113)
gave the tourists a fine start, and the follow-
in<>• batsmen went hard for the tired bowl
ing. The pace was purposely forced, since
the match was only a three-day one, and
the innings ended at 451, Dalton (8-),
Morkel (51) and skipper Cameron (47),
scoring freely. None of the M.L. bowling
averages were remarkable. In again,
home side was dismissed for 146, Weir play-
ing another fine shot for 74 n.o. MeMillai
had the best Afrikander bowling figures for
the match —9 for 127. •
* * * *
“Tiger”: Richmond (Vic.) cricket follow-
ers are very peeved at the neglect of bats*
man-wicketkeeper Arthur Allsopp by the
State cricket authorities. Allsopp nngiated
from N.S.W. because he could not get a
place in the State team in spite of out-
standing performances, and many expected
he would be given a show with Victoria,
which badly needs a ’keeper who can bat.
This season Allsopp has scored 64, 43, 30, o,
31, 34 and 52 in consecutive innings for
Richmond, with an average of 37. He is
a hard-hitting, aggressive batsman, and it
is to be hoped the Victorian cricket autho-
rities won’t make the same mistake with
this young player that they did with Grim-
mett, one they have been kicking themselves
for ever since.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: English exchanges gfve the
full personnel of Lionel Tennyson’s English
cricket team which is bumping snags in the
West Indies (B. 2/3/’32). Tennyson is
skipper, and the players are Chapman, G. T.
Stevens, Kemp-Welch, Bagnall, Valentine,
Walters, Scott-Chad (all amateurs) and
Brown, Bowley, Dacre, Geary, Astill and
Nichols (professionals). Chapman, Tenny-
son, Stevens, Brown, Geary and Nichols
have played against Australia in Tests.
Bowley was in Australia with Arthur _ Gilli-
gan’s team in 1929-30, while Dacre is the
Maorilander who made such a name as a
batsman with the All Blacks in _ Australia
and England, and is now a professional with
Gloucestershire.
* * * *
“ ’Badian” : O. C. Scott, here with the. West
Indian cricketers last year, took 6 wickets
for 91 in the second match between Tenny-
son’s English side and Jamaica. Scott was
a slowish spin bowler of some quality and
a useful batsman. In the Tests he took 11
wickets at an average of 41 runs., heading
even the better-advertised Constantine, while
he averaged close on 15 runs for 8 innings
with the bat. In all matches Scott took 40
wickets and averaged 14.20 as a batsman.
Only Constantine took more wuckets (59)
for the tour.
* * * *
“Rib-roaster”: A year or so ago a Sydney
writer, formerly a cricketer of some eminence,
indignantly denied a statement by a rival pen-
man that certain fast bowlers made a habit
of bowling “at the man” with the object
of impairing the batsman’s morale. Quite
lately the same man was responsible for
an article advocating the very practice whose,
existence he had denied previously. In-
deed, he actually counsels that bowlers
like Nash, Alexander and the Queensland
aboriginal Gilbert should be instructed in
the art of “bowling on the leg stump, just
a little on the short side.” The practice is
as old as cricket, and some of W. G. Grace’s
reminiscences dealing with the bowling of
men like Freeman and Carpenter on the rough
wickets of those days are enough to make
the cotton-wool players of to-day take to
bowls.
••l! * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The appointment of
R. L. Jones as a trustee of Sydney Cricket
Ground (B. 2/3/’32) will be received by all
cricketers with approval, but the new trus-
tee will need to watch his step. At a meet-
ing of a Sydney Rugby League club recently
he urged on the professional football body
the necessity for being more strongly repre-
sented on the trust. He added, “My sym-
pathy has always been with the Rugby
League, and while I am there I will see
you do not suffer.” The Cricket Ground is
held in trust for all amateur sport. The
trustees are expected to administer their
trust without prejudice for or against any
amateur sporting body. To find a trustee
forgetting this aspect and openly avowing
his championship of one particular sport is,
to say the least of it, unedifying.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotham”: There has been a mighty
rumpus in Melbourne over the Australian
tennis heads’ decision, to contribute £l5O to
the expenses of Mrs. Jack Crawford, whom
hubby insisted should accompany him if he
was to go with the Davis Cup team. It
was revealed at the council meeting that
a committee headed by Norman Brookes had
made the arrangement with the Crawfords.
The council, faced with a fait accompli, pro-
tested bitterly, but decided that to save its
face it would have to agree. It also appeared
that there was no definite guarantee that
Mrs. C. would figure in exhibition matches
by way of a quid pro quo to the A.L.T.A.,
and that caused more alarms and excur-
sions. Finally it was decided that the action
of the sub-committee was not to be taken
as a precedent, and that the lady must be
under the control of captain-manager Clem-
enger, like the team itself. As Mrs. Craw-
ford is understood to have accepted an offer
as special tennis correspondent for one of the
big Melbourne newspaper groups, she seems
to be on a good wicket.
* i'fi ❖ *
“Top Spin” : An incident that might have
ended otherwise took place in a Sydney
suburb the other day. There a bowling-
green and tennis-court adjoin, and one of
the tennis-players skied a ball high into the
air. It descended from a great height on
the head of a bowler who was on the mat just
preparing to deliver. At first the injured
party was inclined to be aggressive, but fair
words smoothed over the situation. That
would probably not have been the case had
the situations been reversed and the bowler’s
implement landed on the tennis-player’s
sconce.'
* * *• *
“Rev. Knucklebone” : Although the Davis
Cup selectors passed him over on the
ground that it would hardly be fair to send
a growing youth on a long tour abroad, a
number of ill-advised backers have rushed
in and arranged a trip for McGrath, the bril-
liant schoolboy player, to Europe. There he
will figure in the Continental championships
as well as at Wimbledon. Whether such an
experience will benefit a 15-year-old boy
taken away from his work in the middle of
ONE MAN, ONE JOB.
C.M.: “Cummorn you; carry f’r this gen'leman.”
CADDIE: “Nit to yous; I’m a caddie, not a delivery van.”
his school career is verj; questionable, and
he will have proved himself of unusual
mettle if he comes out unspoiled.
,;s * -f
The N.S.W. tennis championships will be
played at Sydney on the Rusli'cutter Bay
courts from March 12 to 19. There will be
23 events, including the five championships,
men’s and women’s plates, five special events,
four for juniors, and seven handicaps. A
new terror has been added to the programme
in the shape of singles and doubles handi-
caps for veteran players over 45, who will
proceed to lard the lean earth on the open-
ing day. This meeting will see the Davis
Cup players in action for the last time
before leaving Australia.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: Why is it that golfers, like
many cricketers, rarely contrive to master
the rules of the game? In the case of golf
the task is certainly a confusing one, but
there are certain elementary principles easy
to imbibe. One of them is that no player
practising as a preliminary to a competition
may play on to any green to be used in that
competition (Buie 4 for match play). At
one of Sydney’s biggest clubs the other
day a well-known player, before starting
in a competition, played half a dozen short
approaches on to one of the greens. He was
surprised when he was disqualified. The
idea behind the rule is that practice of the
kind might give the player an unfair advan-
tage by enabling him to get the “feel” of
the greens.
if * * *
“Divot Digger”: In spite of the hard times
and increased taxation, Royal Sydney, the
doyen of N.S.W. golf clubs, ended its finan-
cial year with a surplus of £4340. There
are 2473 members, 1191 of them associates,
and subscriptions amounted to £2b,-»a,
while £2935 of the surplus was entrance tees.
People who consider that golf benefits only
the idle rich may note that £0163 was spent
in house wages alone for the year, while
maintenance, employing much labor, came
to £5751. Land and buildings are rated
as worth £124,252. The whole ot the old
executive was elected without opposition, a
testimonial to its efficiency.
* =i= *
“Carnoustie”: The annual meeting of
Manly (N.S.W.) golf club saw an old
bone of contention thrown in again llns
is whether players should be permitted to
tip caddies besides paying them the regu-
lation club fee for their services. Manly
has a rule which threatens with expulsion
any member caught handing out tips. It is
more honored in the breach than the observ-
ance, however, and as the caddie is naturally
the most important witness for the prosecu-
tion, it is pretty difficult to sheet home a case.
There is one aspect of the matter wlncli
is important. That is that members who do
not tip are perennially unfortunate in the
matter of lost, balls and kindred vexations.
One would hesitate to say that there is
such a thing as a caddies’ ‘ ring at the
different clubs, but there is evidence that
there is at least a “gentleman s agreement
among them.
$ #
“Sandringham”: The Albert Park (\ic.)
golf club, a semi-public institution which has
for long been content with a nine-hole course,
has recently added six more though these
are far from completed. Handy to the
city, the Park course has always been popu-
lar with the public, and the congestion, on
the nine-hole round has often been against
good golf. The extra holes, which may be
extended to the full 18 with a little in-
genuity, will help to ameliorate these con-
ditions. A quaint competition was played
recently in which many_members took part.
The course was
altered and “holes”
were made in the
new area. Players
were allowed to pick
up on the ploughed
ground without
penalty and where
there were no holes
a circle of 2ft. 6in.
represented one. Old
Victorian and Aus-
tralian cricketer A.
E. V. Hartkopf won
the competition with
a net 61. on a 15
handicap.
* *
“Gregory”: Bris-
bane’s municipal golf
course, constructed
after years of gloomy
doubts as to whether
it would prove a
paying proposition,
has more than vindi-
cated its backers.
The attendance of
the public has been
large and consistent,
and the membership
of the attached club
has already passed
the 400 mark, although it is a dry
institution. The course is proving a really
good golfing proposition, and greens and
fairways are now in first-class order, though
the latter have been a bit fiery as a result
of the hot spell.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Malcolm Campbell, who wiped
Australian Norman Smith’s eye by setting
up a new motor-speed record at Daytona,
had another go at his own figures of 253.9 GS
m.p.h. for the mile a few days later, but
failed. However, he put up three new
world’s records, averaging 242.751 for five
miles, 247.941 for five kilometres and 238.669
for 10 kilometres. His attempt on the mile
record failed by 2.220 m.p.h. Campbell, who
had hoped to have reached a speed of 300
m.p.h., was not too well suited by beach con-
ditions, which were particularly bad during
his second attempt. He is shipping the car
back to England, and will have another try
next year.
if if * *
“Fitzcray” : With the 200-mile Grand Prix
motor-race due to start at Phillip Island
(Vic.) on March 14, much interest has been
taken in the handicaps. These liave been
based on the average time per lap (61 miles)
for 10 laps of the entrants in previous races.
If these speeds are repeated in this year’s
race, the scratch men will have to cut out
72 m.p.h. to have a chance. Last year’s
winner, C. Junker, averaged 69.87 m.p.h. and
is this time on the 4-minute mark. The
scratch men are A. J. Terdich (Vic.) and
W. Thompson (N.S.W.), winners of the race
in 1929 and 1930 respectively. The limit
man, H. Sinclair, in a Morris-Minor, is on
the 35-minute mark. The scratch men, with
their big cars, are favorites, but there is a
dark horse in McKinney, who will drive a
7-h.p. Austin specially built for last year’s
Ulster Tourist Trophy race. He is on 26
minutes.
*s*
“Super” : A team of English motor-drivers
formed this year to attack records at all
the big Continental meetings made a good
start at Montlhery, in France, where they
broke no less than five world’s records. These
included the 500 kilometres (189.577 m.p.h.),
the 1000 kilometres (188.309 m.p.h.), the
1000 miles (187.264 m.p.h.) and the 2000
kilometres (186.81). In 12 hours they
covered 2163.455 kilometres. The team con-
sists of Kaye Don, of car and speedboat
fame; E. D. Eyston, who has a string of
small-car records to his credit; E. Eldrige,
famous as a tuner-up of cars and a driver;
and A. Denby.
“Kick Starter” : Don Bain, the well-known
motor-cyclist, hoisted a new Australian record
for 34-h.p. cycles at Paddy’s River (N.S.W.)
the other day. Riding a 498-c.c. A.J.S., Bain
covered a flying quarter-mile at the rate of
105.15 m.p.h., or 34 m.p.h. better than pre-
vious figures. For a one-way run his speed
was 110.7 m.p.h., the fastest ever recorded
by a motor-cyclist in the Ma State. The
run was electrically-tim,ed, and the times
have gone to the proper authorities for con-
firmation. Bain is a co-holder of the Mel-
bourne-Sydney record, and has won many
leading motor-cycle events in N.S.W. and
elsewhere. I
# * * *
“Sprocket”: One feature of the Sydney
Bridge celebrations will be the appearance
in the opening procession of Hubert Opper-
man, the famous Australian cyclist. He will
ride the machine in which he rode 100 miles
in 99 minutes 38 seconds at Melbourne Motor-
drome, and alongside him will be seen some
temerarious ancient bestriding the old-time
“penny-farthing” highwheeler that established
the first road record for push bikes between
Sydney and Melbourne, when it was ridden
by ex-inspector Edwards, of the N.S.W.
police.
Miscellaneous
“Blue Chalk”: The Australasian billiard
contingent is gaining fresh laurels abroad.
In Britain, Maorilander Clark McConachy
put up the best showing of his career by beat-
ing Englishman Joe Davis in a level match
over a fortnight. McConachy finished nearly
500 up on his opponent, several times cham-
pion of England and still the technical
holder of the title. Lindrum’s tour of Canada
with Tom Newman is proving a big success.
Walter started early, setting up a new
record for the English game in North
America by piling up 1321 against Newman,
and has announced that he hopes to beat his
own world’s recoi-d and pass the 5000-mark
before leaving Canada.
# $ * *
“Blade”: A sporting invasion of an un-
usual kind struck Sydney lately when
a party of oarsmen from Bendigo (Vic.)
arrived to compete in some of the local
regattas. With one or two exceptions, the
party rode the entire distance from Bendigo,
some 625 miles, on bicycles. They relied on
the Sydney clubs for the supply of boats and
oars, and have met with a generous response.
One handicap is that the proffered boats are
all fitted with swivel rowlocks instead of
the poppet type, to which the visitors arc
accustomed. When the racing is over the
party intends to return by road, as it came.
They were royally treated all along their
route and found it difficult to pass a quiet
night, so many invitations to entertainments
being showered upon them.
❖ ❖ # *
“Shrewsbury” : The Oxford and Cambridge
crews which are to settle their difference over
the historic Putney-Mortlake course, on
March 19 are winding up their training. The
Victorian Luxton, who is. one of the two
Australians in the crews, has been shifted
from his original position of No. 4 in the
Light Blue boat and will now stroke it. His
place at No. 4 has been taken by another
Victorian, W. A. Sambell. Very little news
of the crews has come over the cables, but
Oxford is certainly overdue for a win. Last
year’s victory was the ninth consecutive suc-
cess for the Light Blues, who are now two
ahead of Oxford, having won 42 races to 40,
with one dead heat in 1877.
* * * *
“The Gafferski”: To celebrate something
or other, the Russian Soviet announces it
will hold a “World Spartakiade” or Red
anti-Olympic Games at Moscow in August,
and is building a stadium to hold 150,000.
Fifty thousand Soviet sportsmen will take
part and 10,000 foreigners have been invited,
though no Olympic or national champions
need apply, since “they would win practi-
cally all the events.” There seems to be a
good opening here for athletic members of
the N.S.W. Trades Hall and A.L.P.. and
there is every reason to think that the
general public would subscribe liberally to
buy intending entrants a one-way ticket to
Moscow.


Linen
MSS,
a
Idea
ibe
m
m
i
On
Shfrches
They
Few
re
ë
Unsurpassed fox the Household, Traveller and
School Outfits. Any name woven m fast color
Actual
Size
VZUUcimi.
Style
No. 6.
The Price* are Moderate.
12 doz. 7/6,6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
Sold by Leading Drapers.
Wiiu iot Name Style Circular to
j. a j. w«**iae co. ptt. ltd.
ll'.illltTi'Hll IieHMOND. HELB.
*-«» ■
BRITAIN—MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman” —84 hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
AUSTRALIA’S FAMOUS BRIDGE
World’s Newest Wonder.
GIVE HER A LOVELY SOUVENIR.
9-carat Gold-plated Brooch. Chaste Pattern. Bridge Design 4/6
THE NEWEST BROOCHES ARE ENAMEL.
An artistic Brooch- Design in real enamel. Glorious Colors. In excellent
taste for any costume or any occasion. You'll be proud of this gem V. 5/6
IS HIS BIRTHDAY IN BRIDGE MONTH?
9-carat Gold-plated Sleeve Links. Handsome Bridge Design, pair .... 5/3
POST FREE—REGISTERED.
Money cheerfully refunded if not entirely pleased.
D. S. HARRIS, 9 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
.kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
There will scarcely be a blade of grass
left on the lawns of Government House by
the hour the Bridge is opened. On March
18, the day previous to the event, 2000
guests will prance all over the vice-regal
sward in response to the invitation of the
State Exes. The Governor-General and Lady
Isaacs, the acting-Governor of Victoria and
his wife and the Hore-Ruthvens, of S. Aus-
tralia, will all be guests of Government.
House for the little flutter that is to link
the two shores of the harbor and chain the
poor North Siders to a leaden ball of taxa-
tion.
Somebody has estimated there will be
25,000 strangers in Sydney during the week
of celebrations. These will mostly be coun-
try, inter-State and Maoriland visitors, with
a smattering of overseas tourists. In the
procession there will be over two dozen
bands; there will be school children, abori-
gines, Cobb and Co. coaches, Soudan vet-
erans and A.I.F-ers, South African soldiers
and men who fought in the Boxer rebellion,
and about 26 floats in all, counting the flower
floats and those commemorating the indus-
tries. The length of the procession will be
2922 yards, and it will be marshalled by
Colonel McColl; and J.C.W.’s Charlie West-
maeott, who is one of the committee chiefs,
says, in the light of his experience of war-
time processions, that he’d rather tackle the
job of licking a band of raw amateurs into
shape for a Russian ballet.
The Historical Pageant at Vaucluse House,
which will range throughout the afternoon
and evening of the 19th, is one of the
Bridge entertainments not to be overlooked.
In the afternoon the gardens of Vaucluse
House will be gay with old-fashioned side-
shows, a blacks’ camp (real abos. from La
Perouse), a cavalcade of ladies in cavalier
hats and velvet riding-habits of the Josephine
period, a Cobb and Co.’s coach and social
and historical entities of the days of the five
Governors whose reigns will be commemorated
in the pageant. At five o’clock in the even-
ing a ferry transformed into a replica of the
Sirius will disembark its company on a little
beach adjacent, and in the evening a recep-
tion by the present-day Wentworth will be
held in the old home. Two gossips will intro-
duce the descendants of tlie pioneers, who
will walk the lantern-lit old gardens dressed
as their own ancestors, and shades of Bligh
and Phillip and Macquarie will hobnob over
a pinch of snuff or a tot of rum. The pro-
ceeds of this pictorial entertainment go to
the badly-in-need Victoria Homes.
Archbishop Kelly, who sailed for Dublin
last week as head of the Australian delega-
tion to the Eucharistic Congress, left a touch-
ing farewell message. He prayed not for
power for the Church nor for material bene-
fits for the country. But “May God save
Australia from all evil,” he cried from the
depths of his venerable soul. He sailed by
the Nestor. He has been over 61 years a
priest.
Tony Hordern, of Retford Hall, Darling
Point, and Milton Hall, Bowral, a grandson
of the founder of Anthony Horderns, married
his young bride, Mary Bullmore, last week
at All Saints’, Woollahra. The date of the
wedding only leaked out from the family
circle about 24 hours before the event, and,
although the bride has been getting her trim-
mings together for weeks, the final rush past
the post caught the public unawares. The
church chosen is just across the road from
the Bullmore home; there Dr. Bullmore gave
his youngest daughter away, and Canon
Langley had the chief speaking part. Tall
young Sam Hordern, son of knight Samuel,
just back from Europe, acted as best man
to his uncle, and Tony’s daughters, Dinah
and Mary, were among the guests in the
church and afterwards at the Bullmore home,
where the bride’s mother was helped by
daughters Peggy and Gretel to refresh the
small company with cocktails and their
accompaniments.
Orchids and gladioli were the flowers
principally used a-t the H'ordern-Bullmore
wedding Gladioli flowed in the church, and
white gladioli were held in the crook of the
bride’s arm. Orchids in purple tones glowed
against the black suits worn by both the
bride’s mother. Mrs. Bullmore, and sister
Gretel; and again occurred, in company with
tall pink spears of gladioli, about the Bull-
more home. Sam Hordern’s lady looked very
handsome in a sapphire-blue coat collared
and cuffed in grey fox of melting softness,
Sam’s mother, too, came to the party, and
Mrs. David Hill, Tony’s sister, turned out
in smart black chiffons. Mary and Dinah
Hordern and cousins Audrey and Doreen
added their youth and good clothes to the
company.
Margaret Honey, who is going to be
Matilda in “Tilly of Bloomsbury in the
next Doone theatricals, had the look or ■ a
Rossetti girl the other night at Romano s.
She was one of the group of dancers got
together by Mrs. H. C. Osborne and Mrs.
Sam Hardy (Sydney remembers them as the
Macarthur twins) to meet the young Dari
and Countess of Jersey. Ken Richards was
there trying to look unconscious that he
now father-in-law to a bit of Debrett. The
girl Countess wore a rose-red chiffon Hock,
the skirt let in with strips of ivlute. Silver
sandals, and a trail of white gardenias over
one shoulder. Mary Hordern and cousin
Sam were also of this party.
The Earl is a slender, pale-faced youth
who yet manages, in spite of a very quiet
manner, to give a hint of determination.
Patricia is full of beans, wears her hair
softly rolled in the fashion of the moment,
has a radiant complexion and is enjoying
her hour to the full. The two will be the
centre of a big house-party at the lony
Horderns’ Bowral home at Easter, and they
have accepted an invitation to be present at
the Historical Pageant at Vaucluse House
on the evening of the 19th.
Isn’t it about time the press of this
country got over its Cophetua and the
Beggar Maid complex towards any ot our
maidens who break through into the Peer-
age? Take the Earl of Jerseys young
Countess. The jubilations, with surprise as
a principal ingredient, because young
Patricia Richards has carried off such an
eligible partner are almost ridiculous, lhe
girl is young, pretty and well educated, and
her parents have wealth enough to have
satisfied her every reasonable desire, bhe is
giving much to the peerage as well as getting
something from it. It is time we left off
paying our girls these backhanded compli-
m<OfS’all the wonders of the Electrical and
Radio Exhibition in the Town Hall the
T.O T. broadcasting station is most talked
about by the uninstructed listener-in. lhe
station is entirely run by children Th~
programme is supplied by kiddies, th 3
announcer is a boy of eight, who has no
nervousness and whose voice comes clear
as a bell. The programmes are relayed to
a city studio and then broadcast to ti
world. The age-limit for operators, artists,
announcers and managers is 14.
Following the trail blazed by Madge
Elliott and
Marie Ney,
girls from
this end of
the earth con-
tinue to walk
into the fancy
of London
audiences. The
latest to make
a success is
Mary Gannon,
a pretty
blonde Pa d-
dington girl.
Mary toured
S’Africa last
year as a lead-
ing lady in a
stock com-
pany, and now
finds herself
cast as Lady
Row e n a
i n “W hen
Knights Were Bold” at the Duke of York’s
Theatre in Bondon.
Cricketer Alan Fairfax didn’t sail for
England unaccompanied. He took with him
on the Largs Bay his bride, who until a
few hours before had been Gwen Lewis, of
Manly. The Fairfaxes’ home will he in
Lancashire, where Alan will play profes-
sionally for the Accrington ,Club. The wed-
ding, a small intimate affair, was made fast
in St. Philip’s on Church H'ill and trimmed
with toasts at Petty’s.
There’s lamentation at the French Con-
sulate over the departure of Consul-General
Nettement. The small, dark, dapper man, has
held his present appointment for the past
eight years, so that his going is causing
quite a wrench. Actually he knew Aus-
tralia 26 years ago, for early in his career
he was sent here as Vice-Consul. Then
Russia, the war and the United Statesi knew
him. He married Suzanne Herchuelz, a
pretty Sydney girl, shortly after he arrived
here "as Consul-General. Her father ('a
well-known woolbuyer for Masurel Fils) and
mother returned last year to make their
home in their native land. From here the
Nettements go to Peru, where he will be
Minister for France. Their home will be at
Lima.
Earl Beauchamp is a rather sick man
these days—nothing serious, but a jumpy
heart that forbids surfing and-such joys. He
has been in Tusculum private hospital sur-
rounded by flowers and callers and such-
like delicate attentions. Now his doctors
have ordered him to the hot baths in Maori-
lahd and he goes there this week. “I hope
to come into Sydney on my way home,” he
wrote to this Letter. ‘T want especially to
see two things—tlie Macleod Gallery and the
Archibald Memorial.”
Interesting that these memorials to two
men so long associated in business and by
the closest ties of friendship should happen
to be completed at almost the same moment.
Quite unlike in much, they had one thing at
least in common —a great love for; fihe
beautiful and a strong sense of their debt
to the artist, of whom each was a very prac-
tical helper. So the memorials are just as
one might wish: Archibald’s the sublime
group of statuary in Hyde Park; Mac-
leod’s a very fine private gallery for the
exhibition and (it is hoped) sale of artists’
pictures and other treasures.
The British ex-Service Association, which
has quarters in the Bulletin Building, is
steadily growing in membership. Though
only IS months old, already there are 600
names on its rolls. Its aim, besides en-
couraging comradeship between all branches
of the British Services, is to assist in the
relief of ex-Service men in distressed cir-
cumstances, and to this end employment and
pension sections have been formed. The
association also indulges in social functions,
is non-political, and Sir Philip Game is one
of its enthusiastic supporters.
If any should benefit by the opening of
the Bridge it should be our babies. Anyway,
that’s how the
Royal Society
for the Wel-
fare of Mo-
thers and
Babies reason-
ed when the
committee de-
cided to hold
a ball in aid
of Tresillian
on the night
of the Bridge
opening.
Tresillian is
the society’s
moth ereraft
training
centre. The
wife of Dr.
Charles
C 1 übb e, the
subject of this
Ma y Moore
picture, is pre- ,
sident of the frivol. The Gov.-General and
Lady Isaacs, Sir Philip and Lady Game, the
Mayoral Walders and other vice-regal and
civic lights will traverse the ballroom of
David Jones’s in challenge to the harbor
lights visible from the roof.
Tragedy has been lurking at the Savoy,
where the shopgirl heroine of “Cyuara
topped oil her unhappy love affair with salts
of lemon. “Cynara” is very badly con-
structed ; even Clive Coppard couldn’t enlist
sympathy for the smug, unimaginative young-
leading man. The audience was very
“social” and well dressed. Dorise Hill, trail-
ing black laces, greeted her club members.
Aide Gifford was having a night off with
a group of young things whom he afterwards
squired to Romano’s.
Unless one has the wide-eyed look of inno-
cence so prevalent in heroines of grand-
mother’s time, one can’t hope to look any-
thing but hard-baked in many of this season's
hats. The shapes are so small that they
demand a profusion of curls, puffs and ring-
lets to nestle on. Some are so shallow in
the crown, edged round with so tiny a
brim, that they resemble nothing so much
as those tin plates in which jam tarts are
cooked. In the trade they are “saucers,” and
are held over the back of the head with a
band of petersham or something similar two
or three inches deep. The shallow crown
is really the hat; the tilted effects are
obtained by cleverly-placed tucks, edges and
bands of the straw or velour. One of. the
most attractive new lids so far seen is a
tricorne in soft-as-satin velour, with a great
cluster of wallflower across the back and
towards the left side. To wear these hats
with anything like success your bob must
be long, the ends rolled into a sausage curl
from ear to ear. This does away with the
naked area between the early finish of the
hat and the nape of the neck.
The Glengarry and the Tam o’ Shanter
modes, with their reckless “the deil’s awa’
with the exciseman” air, should be avoided
by the strong of jaw, the long of upper lip
and the lady wowser. There are Robin
Hood shapes and funny flat puffs of velour
and velvet, something like the considering
caps Henry the Eighth wore when he went
a-courting a new wife. There are hats whose
backs are steep, upstanding cliffs of felt,
sprouting quills like signposts, while the
crowns might be some tiny baby car at the
foot thereof. The straw turban and the beret
—a glorified beret of folds and pleats—still
remain; but the pictorial or period hats are
the ones for which woman is busy growing
her hair and practising a new old-world
expression. This Letter’s favorite milliner
coo-eed last week and declared that, even
with the most extreme style, a pinch-in
here, a let-out there, a slight rise on one
side or a deeper tilt on the other, and the
thing could be worn over any face. Still
it would hate to wear some of them in a
neighborhood over-populated with small boys.
Last week Mrs. George Vivers came back
to town to take up residence —at least till
after the winter. She has been living at
Burradoo for over a year, but last winter s
cold on the Southern Tablelands decided her
to spend the mid-months in town. The
Australia will be her headquarters till she
has dug into a flat.
Mrs. Margery Brown, who a year or two
ago, being then 70, plucked the Common-
wealth prize for a scenario, has _ now pub-
lished a modest book of verse, priced at Is.
Sound commonsense and a sympathy with
human emotions are features of the book.
There’s one thing about Sydney people
they do stick to their friends. The bigger
the" mess the friends are in the closer they
cling. The other day this Letter ran into
a friend of Mrs. Aimee Belle Edols, who was
piling fruit, flowers, jellies and what not
into a. car before going out to Long Bay to
visit her. Mrs. Edols is “inside” under a
warrant for contempt of court for failing
to answer to a summons. For six
months she kept her whereabouts hidden
from authority, and it is declared that she
was in Sydney all the time. A well-known
woman in the social life of Sydney, she is
a clever talker, has an attractive manner, and
at least one woman to whom she owes
money is full of sympathy for her.
Queensland notes: —
Joseph’s coat seemed spread! along the lawns at
Ascot, so many different colors did the women visitors
parade. The Blair lady was in cigar brown with
beige lace jabot and cuffs and beige hat; Mrs.
S. F. Macdonald wore brown and white; Mrs. R.
J. Spence (Longreach) chose navy blue and white;
Mrs. Isaac Moore was in navy; Leith Graham
favored pink with brown hat; Mrs. Donald Hill
Smith (she was Alice Hawthorn), wore black with green
scarf ; her friend Nan North was in black ; Mrs. R. w.
Dowling’s orange gown was worn with a white-
flecked straw; Nancy Stewart chose primrose; Mrs.
David Tait was in black and white ; Mrs. N. Mac-
groarty wore fawn and brown; Muriel Burton was
in white with a short brown coat; and Zoe Earle
chose lemon. All the more sombre-hued frocks had
bright scarves. The Blair lady, Mrs. Macgioaity,
Mrs. W. Danagher, Ella O’Shea, Dr. P. V. Crowe
and Mr. East had tea parties on the committee-room
verandah. . , .
“Let Us Be Gay,” with its charming flocking,
drew a big house for its premiere. Dulcie
Cherry opened the ball with song. Among the
audience were the Premier and Mre. A. E. Moore
and their sons, Edward and Euston.
St. Brigid’s, Longreach, saw the wedding of
William Rossberg to Elinor Joan Costello. The
bride was in ivory satin with a broidered tulle
veil. Alice Costello and Mabel Rossberg ’maided
in pink.
Roy G. Galloway married Hilda May Simpson m
St Andrew’s, Warwick. The bride, who was given
away by her father, was in ivory bridal satin with
a broidered tulle veil. Jess and Pearl Galloway
’maided in lilac. Mrs. Simpson received the wedding
guests at the Soldiers’ Club.
A very charming introduction to the Art Theatre,
the new venture by Nell Douglas Graham and lan
Vallentine, was the setting of Oscar Wilde’s “Im-
portance of Being Earnest.” John Arden was
responsible for the Aubrey Beardsley scenery, and
Nell Graham and Mary Kessell wore black and white
to tone with the ensemble. Winnie and Marjorie
Wilkinson, Moya Connolly, Roy Bulcock and George
Dryborough-Pope supported the piincipals; the
audience included the C.J. and his lady, Mrs. A. E.
Moore and members of the Graham clan.
The Y.W.C.A. had a party at the association’s
rooms to open the year’s activities. Mesdames W.
H Barnes W. J. Gall, A. H. Parnell and L. E.
Edmonds received the official guests, who included
Mrs. A. E. Moore, the Mayoress and Annie Withe-
combe, a member of the board. Girls in white
and blue made a guard of honor. Mrs. A. E.
Moore paid a tribute to the committee for then-
work and presented the shields. There was a musical
programme.
Robert Blair Findlay married Gladys E. Hall m
the East Brisbane Methodist Church. The bride was
in ivory satin beaute with a broidered veil and cap
of Brussels lace. Hilda and Sylvia Hall and Daisy
Camps attended in turquoise blue.
Harry Percival Charlton married Olive Mary
Ogilvie at St. Augustine’s Church, Hamilton. Jack
Ogilvie gave the bride away; she wore parchment
satin with sleeveless draped bodice and hand-made
lace veil with a circlet of orange blossoms. Brides-
maid Cicely Charlton was frocked in green satin.
The reception was at the home of the bridegroom’s
parents, Clayfield.
Peggy Raymond, daughter of the D. B. Raymonds,
Milton, announces her engagement to A. J. Grin-
stead, a prominent tennis-player. The marriage
takes place immediately.
Christine Rivett opened Miles Evergood’s display
of pictures in the Gainsborough Gallery. The rich-
ness of the coloring was a feature of the show.
Miles Evergood is a member of the Royal Queens-
land Art Society, but has lived much in America.


For Sale.
COR SALE. —Complete set Broinowski’s
“Birds of Australia.” S.W.R., Box 23,
Dailey (Q.).
Legal Notices.
j : >E FREDERICK ASHTON Deceased.
Pursuant to the Trustee Act 1925.
Frederick Ashton of the Fleece Hotel Louth in
the County of Lincoln Licensed Victualler died oh
the 31st day of December 1919 and under his Will
after the death of his wife (who was tenant for
life thereunder) which took place on the 11th day
of October 1927 one-third of his trust fund is held
by his trustees for his son Charlie Fred Robinson
Ashton or his assigns if he survive the said 11th
day of October 1927 or if he died before the 11th
day of October 1927 for the child or children of him
the said Charlie Fred Robinson Ashton then living
and attaining the age of 21 years or marrying
under that age.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled to the said one-third share
of the trust fund in consequence of the death of
the said Charlie Fred Robinson Ashton before the
11th day of October 1927 (if he died before that
date) are required to send by post pre-paid to us
the undersigned Solicitors on or before the ninth
day of May 1932 their full Christian and surnames
addresses and descriptions and full particulars of
their claims or in default thereof they will be
excluded from any share or interest in the said
one-third share of the said trust fund.
A claimant not residing in England or Wales
must send with particulars of his or her claim the
name and address of a person in England or Wales
to whom notices to the claimant can be sent.
Dated this 29th day of January 1932.
ALLISON & HELMER,
Solicitors,
Louth, Lincolnshire, England.
TO MARY KATE DOWLING and WILLIE
DOWLING the children of George Dowling.
Pursuant to an Order of the High Court Of Justice
Saorstat Eireann made in the Matter of the Estate
of Jane Dowling deceased Collins v. Dowling the
abovenamed children of George Dowling a lawful
brother of Jane Dowling late of the Abbey Presen-
tation Convent Stradbally in the Queen’s County
Ireland are on or before the 9th day of May 1932
to enter and prove their claims at the Central
Office Law Courts Dublin or in default thereof they
will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit of
the said Order. Wednesday the 11th day of May
1932 at the Examiner’s Office at the said Courts is
appointed for hearing and adjudicating on the Claims.
Dated this 25th day of January 1932. JOHN HEALY,
Examiner. Eugene F. Collins and Son, Solicitors
for the Plaintiffs, 19 Eustace Street, Dublin.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
1 WALES.
In Equity.
No. 1236 of 1931.
Between ALEXANDER MELVILLE and ORS
Plaintiffs
And LANCELOT GEORGE BLACKMORE and
ORS Defendants.
To the abovenamed Defendant Lancelot George
Blaekmore formerly of 56 Hunter Street Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed Plaintiffs
have commenced a Suit against you by Statement of
Claim filed in this Honorable Court on the 29th day
of December 1931 and Amended on the 2nd day of
February 1932 claiming that you may be removed
from the Office of Trustee of the Will of Lily
Augusta Wallace deceased and for other relief and
orders against you as therein mentioned. AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that by an Order made
in the said Suit on the 4th day of March 1932 the
Plaintiffs were given liberty to effect service of
the said Statement of Claim as amended on you
by advertising their Notice once in the “Sydney
Morning Herald,” “The Bulletin” and the Brisbane
“Courier” Newspapers and that the time within
which you are to file an Appearance to the said
Statement of Claim as amended is within twenty-one
days from the publication of this Advertisement. A
copy of the said Statement of Claim as amended
may be had by you free of charge on application
to the undersigned.
” RUSSELL & RUSSELL,
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs,
350 George Street, Sydney.
That well-known daily newspaper, “THE
BARRIER MINER,” completed its 44th
year on February 29. It has had only
11 birthdays in 44 years, having been
born on the Lucky Day in Leap Year,
1888 Having lived both wisely and well,
it stands high in the First Newspaper
Class after 44 years. The people of
Broken Hill and the Far West of N. S.
Wales need no other daily newspaper.
THE PATRIOT
■ DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN.
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. 0. HINCHOLIPFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800for [?]
Buckley e-Nunn [?]
[?]
The weather was sweltering for the second
day of the V.R.C., and the attendance was
large, with a big muster in the members
enclosure. Summer dresses were in order.
Chiffons and georgettes and shady hats were
most suitable, and many wise women did
return to the wide-brimmed millinery, but
there were several who dared sunstroke and
sunburn in the diminutive felts intended for
the grey days of winter. Greens of varying
shades'were again much in evidence, and
there was an eruption of white panama hats.
A few people came all in white, among
them Mrs. Ben Chaffey. Mrs. M. L. Bail-
lieu looked cool in chiffon patterned in green
and matching crinoline straw hat. Mrs. G.
Lansell, of Bendigo, chose dark green
georgette and e felt hat of the same hue.
Joan Wilkinson, of Sydney, sported a scarlet
silk frock and a white hat. Brown, pat-
terned in amber tones and topped by a sun-
burnt straw, was worn by Mrs. A. V.
Kewney. Mrs. H. S. K. Ward, who was
in black taffeta, eyelet embroidered in green,
was accompanied by Mrs. N. Millson, of
Sydney, whose black frock was trimmed
with coffee-colored lace, her hat being black.
Ella Payne was in powder-blue georgette
with matching straw hat. Kathleen Ahern
shaded her green and white spotted frock
with a white hat. The Denison lady, of
the sister State, was in a tailored suit of
cigar-brown georgette with a blending hat.
The Robinson lady chose an all black turn-
out. Parasols were unfurled in many shapes
and colors —there was one sapphire blue
with a dado of gold roses, and another of
pale green with a bordering of artificial
hydrangeas.
No doubt there have been hotter days
than Saturday, nevertheless the tempera-
ture, combined with the warm northerly, made
the last day of the V.R.C. meeting more than
usually trying. We had been promised a
cool change, and many matrons and maids
came with fur necklets and an extra wrap—
very soon relegated to the cloak-room. Many
persons managed to preserve at least an
appearance of coolness in chiffon or lace
and a white-brimmed hat. Lieutenant-Gov-
ernor Irvine was present, attended by Major
Wilkinson, but his lady was not there. The
wife of Knight Frank Clarke sported a
chiffon gown of the hue known as nude, a
lace coatee and a large crinoline straw hat
with pinky roses tossed on the brim. Mrs.
Ronald McPherson looked comfortable in
her green frock, with dollar white spots, and
a green felt hat. Mrs. John Oldham, a
recent bride, touched up her white accordeon-
pleated chiffon frock with a red patent-
leather belt; a white panama hat completed
the picture. Mrs. Ross Grey Smith —Betty
F’airbairn that was —was there with her
hubby, her red-and-white spotted frock being
topped by a cherry-colored hat. Peggy
Gibson was another who came in a scarlet
turnout; also Mrs. N. Robinson, who re-
joiced in a win for Dominant, of which her
husband and Mr. J. Fell are part-owners.
Joan Chirnside was nice in black-and-white
figured silk and black hat; a red shantung
frock with a small black hat was worn by
Mrs. Fred Grimwade. Dorothy Shiel had
large black millinery shading a black chiffon
gown. Mrs. Richard Linton was also in
black chiffon, with a black straw hat. Mrs.
Maldon Robb was a study in reseda green.
Among those in the members’ enclosure were
Lud Mayor Smith, the chairman of the
V.R.C., L. K. S. Mackinnon, sec. A. V.
Kewney and Mrs. Kewney, the J. Winter
Irvings and Mrs. R. G. Casey.
The Percy Russells, of Cliveden Mansions,
gave a bridge party, with music, at the
Wentworth to their son Leigh and his wife,
just wedded, who are making their home
at Tatura. Black chiffon clad the hostess,
and the bride was in faint pink draperies of
tile same material. Pianist Roy Shepherd
and singer Carrie Cairnduff entertained the
company.
The motor-cars of our naicest parked out-
side the Alexandra Club when Mrs. Harry
Il'enty showed approval of her son Major
Edric Henty’s fiancee, Betty Wilkinson, by
inviting many youthful folk to meet her at a
bridge party. Lorraine, daughter of the
Ronald Cummings, of the Mt. Fyans squat-
tage, who is a grand-daughter of Mrs. H'enty,
co-starred with Miss Wilkinson at the party.
She is just out of the schoolroom and will
be a deb. this year. The hostess wore a
frilly black gown embellished with ecru lace
and a black felt hat. Miss Wilkinson, who
was accompanied by her mother, Mrs. Robert
Helby, was in pastel green, with a brown hat.
Miss Cumming’s frock was of cherry crepe
satin, worn with a small felt hat in a match-
ing shade.
A dinner was spread at the Lyceum Club
on Thursday night, when the executive of
the Institute of Pacific Relations gathered
around the board to feast H. W. Gepp on his
return from China. President F. W. Eggle-
ston was aided by Mrs. Eggleston, who was
in light beige lace. The guest of honor was
accompanied by his wife, whose draperies
were of the hue known as “dregs of wine,”
exactly matching in georgette and lace. In
the throng were Mrs. Harry Emmerton,
Littleton Groom’s lady, the H. B. Wilkin-
sons and Nora Collison.
Mrs. W. G. Sharp, wearing a sapphire-
blue gown with touches of fawn, and blend-
ing millinery, had an afternoon gathering at
her home at Queen’s-road as a welcome,
after two years’ travel, to her niece Constance
Syme, daughter of Mrs. J. C. Syme, Toorak.
Mrs. lan Currie, of Seven Creeks station,
who _is a daughter of the hostess, said au
revoir ' to the guests at the party—she is
returning to her squattage at Euroa.
. On Friday white latticed stalls, filled with
zinnias, asters and other blossoms, with
hanging baskets of ferns, made gay splashes
of color on street corners. A flower-decked
stand at the Town Hall was mainly devoted
to advertising the Molifere comedy "Le Mar-
iage Force” and the ballet music of Lully,
performed during the week-end at tne
Comedy Theatre. Portraits of the French
composer, whose tercentenary is early this
year, were sold there. The Berry-stree „
Foundling Home is the beneficiary of these
activities. Prominent among the organisers
were the Lawford and Fairbairn ladies,
Mrs. George Chirnside, Mrs. G. F. Hyde,
Mrs. Eric Harrison and Linda Moore, hon.
sec. of the institution.
Mrs. E. J. Hogan, wife of the State Pre-
mier, was not able to attend the farewell
party given in her honor at the W indsor on
Friday. A cold which was very near pneu-
monia sent the lady into Mt. St. Eyins Hos-
pital a week or so ago. Mrs. P. Tunne-
cliffe, whose frock and felt millinery were
bottle-green, and Mrs. J. P. Jones, whose
black chiffon, figured in russet colorings, was
allied to a black shady hat, organised the
gathering. Eileen Castles sang, with May
Broderick at the piano, and Cecil Parkes
came along with his fiddle. Both hostesses
referred to the support Mrs. Hogan had
given the Premier in his work, and later on,
on behalf of the collected womenfolk,
visited the hospital and handed her a dia-
mond-surrounded wristlet' watch. A boom-
erang of pansies and pink roses accompanied
the gift. At the party were the Argyle lady,
Mrs. E. Kiernan, Mrs. T. J. Ryan, Mrs. M.
Bailey and Mrs. W. McGrath.
Blamire Young designed the costumes for
the performance of “Le Mariage Force,
at the Comedy. To keep expenses down a
leading costumibre cut out and fitted the
garments free and a committee made most ot
them. Those worn in the Sarabande were
the work of the students of the Emily Mac-
Pherson College of Domestic Economy. All
members of the string orchestra wore the
satin breeches and coats of the play’s period,
and city-organist W. N. McKie presided
at the harpsichord in a fair, curly wig and
purple brocade. Students from the Albert-
street Con., under the tuition of Mary
Campbell, sang well in two excerpts from
“Cadmus and Hermione.” Sylvia F isher
made a most striking Hermione in her gold-
braided white Grecian robe. For the Sara-
bande, which was an interlude, four girls
wore lampshade skirts of mauve tint, with
puff sleeves strapped in cherry color. Their
partners were in brocaded lame with black
velvet cloaks and plumed hats. In another
dance the gentlemen pro tern, wore baggy
knickers of lace with . frills; their long
coats were of cosmos-pink velvet. Then
partners sported long flowing mediaeval robes
of primrose velvet and satin. From a box
Lieutenant-Governor Irvine and his lady
looked out. Opposite were the Lud Mayor
and Mrs. J. Dyer. The lady returned thanks
for the assistance given her in staging the
performance. Linda Byron Moore, in black
chiffon; Mrs. R. Gordon, .Mrs. Vanderkelen,
Mrs Fred Thiel, Mrs. L. Macdonald, the
Clarence Marriotts and Mrs. Percy Black-
bourn were in the audience. Among the
society maidens who sold programmes and
ice-creams were Ann Outhwaite, Mary Guy
Smith, Jean Eggleston, Audrey Poolman and
Barbara Bryans.
The lady in powder and patches is Madame
Marguerite Cockerton, who takes a very
keen interest in amateur theatricals. She
had the lead-
ing part in
“P assing
Brompton-
road” when it
was played by
members of the
Prose enium
Club, of which
she is presi-
dent. Recently
this club put
on “The Mar-
qu i s e,” b y
Noel Coward,
and Madame
Cocke rton’s
n a tionality—
she is French
—aided her
cons iderably
in the name
role. She is
pictured here
by Dickinson-
Monteatli in a gown she wore as Dorimene
in the Molifere comedy “Le Mariage Force,”
which was produced at the Comedy Theatre
under the direction of Mrs. James Dyer on
Saturday afternoon and evening for the
Berry-street Foundling Home. The dress is
apple-green satin opening over an ivory
brocade petticoat scattered with brilliants.
Grammar School Chapel saw the wedding
of Margaret, elder daughter of the R. G. H.
Becks, of Malvern, to Frederick, only son
of Mr. and Mrs. F. J. Thomas, of Toorak.
The bridal veil, descending from a wreath
of orange-buds, was draped over a magnolia-
tinted satin gown, and the bouquet contained
trailing masses of real orange blossom. Ethel
Beck and Gwen Thomas, sisters of bride
and bridegroom respectively, were attendant
’maids in plumbago-blue satin frocks with
modish felt hats of a darker shade. They
carried shower bouquets of pink and red
roses. After-rejoicings took place at the
Grosvenor, Toorak.
An unusual color scheme was exhibited at
a recent wedding when the quartette of
bridesmaids wore chiffon gowns of varying
shades of green, with wreaths to match, and
held sheaves of russet-colored dahlias. The
bride’s gown was white satin traced in gold
with clouds of Brussels lace as veil.
A wedding at the week-end was that of
James McDougall, president of the Chamber
of Commerce, who made his second matri-
monial venture with Constance, daugutef of
D. McAlpine, of Litchfield. The ceremony
took place at Scots Church.
The Dramatic Circle of the Lyceum Club
gathered in the reception-room, which was
decked with asters and crimson gladioli, to
welcome Mrs. J. Dyer and Mrs. Gabriel
Toyne (Margaret Rawlings). Miss Barkam,
convener of the circle, gave greeting and
handed posies to the guests of honor. Mrs.
Dyer’s gown of ivory georgette was made
with a detachable cape, and her hat was
cornflower blue. A cream suit with a bois-
de-rose fur necklet was worn by Mrs. Toyne
and a woollen hat with a curled brim was
perched on her black wavy locks.
At a gathering of teachers convened by
Miss Gilman Jones at the Girls’ Grammar
School, Mrs. Dyer explained her ideas on the
subject of teaching French by means of
gramophone records. She proposed to give a
series of records into the keeping of the
Alliance Frgncaise, which could lend them
to any schools that cared to apply.
iVlelrose, at Mt. Martha, which is over
beyond Frankston, and was for some years
the E. M. Pearces’ seaside home, has been
purchased by architect R. B. Hamilton. The
building, which is surrounded by 34 acres
of grounds, is almost historic. It is made of
granite, quarried on the estate, and was
built 50 years ago for Captain Watson. Then
Mrs. Robertson, mother of knight George
Fairbairn’s wife, became its possessor, and
there were one or two other changes of
tenancy before lVlr. Pearce became the owner.
It was on this estate that Mr. Pearce stabled
his racehorses, including the famous Molli-
son.
This is Freda, daughter of Federal Attor-
ney-General J. G. Latham and his wife, who
stays at home
while her
parents go to
Europe. She
is taking an
arts course ac
Me lb o urne
Uni., and is
just beginning
her second
year. She
lends her
mother a will-
ing hand in
activities con-
nected with
the Children’s
Hospital and
other institu-
t i o n s. The
Lathams’ elder
son Dick was
the Vi c.
Rhodes scholar
of 1931 and
his parents look forward to seeing him at
Oxford, where he is installed at Magdalen
College. Keeping Freda company at home
is the youngest of the family, Peter, aged
eight. The picture is from the Ronald Esler
studio.
South Australia’s contribution :
Women on our different charitable committees are
preparing for a strenuous time this winter. Mrs.
Lavington Bonython, a tower of strength on any
charity drive, is organising a dance and mannequin
parade at the Palais Royal next month on behalf
of the Mothers’ and Babies’ Health Association. A
week or two later there will be a flower festival
in the Exhibition Building in aid of the Angori-
china Hostel. This was suggested to Lady Hore-
Ruthven by Miss Elsie Cornish, and should prove
an excellent money-raiser. The centre hall is to be
arranged as a rose garden and there will be floral
competitions in the annexes.
Tattersall’s Club meeting at Victoria Park saw
a blaze of color in the frocking. Scarlet and royal
blue were the most popular shades, with emerald
green close up. Miss Eileen Flannagan, who assisted
her father to entertain at afternoon-tea, wore a
dainty white silk frock and a small white hat. The
Mayor and Mayoress were present, Mrs. Glover wear-
ing a fawn and navy blue figured georgette, with a
navy plumed straw hat.
Pirie Bush, as the Adelaide representative for
a Melbourne firm, gave an invitation cocktail party
in the Liberal Hall last Tuesday afternoon, when the
guests were entertained with a mannequin parade
by some of Adelaide’s pretty society girls. Three
young matrons, Mesdames John Bonython, Lloyd
Tolley and C. Noble, and Misses A. Rutherford, B.
Homburg and H. Carpenter, took part in the display.
Winsome, eldest daughter of Mr. Arthur G. Fenner,
of Kensington Park, will marry John W. Pitt, of
Brisbane, next week. The bridegroom is son of Dr.
and Mrs. T. B. Pitt, of Birmingham, England;
the wedding takes place at Turramurra (N.S.W.).
Mr. and Mrs. George Cowan, with their son and
daughter, returned from England by the Orsova.
They are staying with Major and Mrs. Lance Lewis
at Banaere, Glen Osmond, and later they will visit
Mrs. Cowan’s sister, Mrs. Alex. Melrose, at Victor
Harbor.
Mrs. H. Tetley, who arrived from Sydney recently,
is the guest of Mrs. T. E. Barr-Smith, at Aldgate.
She came from England to be present at the marriage
of her son Leonard and Miss Clifford Bligh, in Sydney.
Captain T. E. Barr-Smith was best man at the
ceremony.
Mrs. Charles Stone and her daughter left by the
Manunda for Perth, where the marriage of Miss
Stone to Mr. J. Evans will take place next week.
Westralia chips in :
Mrs. Marco, with her infant and her sister Mrs.
Pender, left by the Moldavia for Europe. The
Tivey couple departed for the Eastern States a few
days after their daughters’ sailing.
Mrs. Guy Innes spent a few hours here while the
Orsova was in port. The Women’s Service Guild
arranged luncheon tables in their reception-room and
had ready a posy of rosebuds and love-in-the-mist
for the guest of honor. Words of welcome fell
from the lips of Mrs. Vallance, State president of
the guild, Mrs. Rischbieth and Mrs. Pelloe. Mrs.
Innes wore white and green voile. She is a promi-
nent member of the British Empire League; her
husband is the Australian cable press representative
in London.
Josephine Freedman, of Ventnor-avenue, Perth,
announces her engagement to Edward Browne-Cooper.
Phyllis Hadley, who weds Victor Shallcross this
week, has been much feted by her friends. In her
honor Mrs. Reith Ross and Margaret Draper joined
hands for an evening of bridge at Margaret’s home
in King’s Park-road. Carnations and ferns adorned
the drawing-room. Mrs. Ross chose a black gown,
Miss Draper fluttered patterned chiffons, and the
most important guest was wrapped in mignonette-
greens. Mrs. Norman Giles, Mrs. Tom Seed, Maimie
Brown, Kathleen Castieau, Topsy Hyem and Mrs.
Bill Broun were among the card-shufflers.
The Gordon Craig couple chose the clubhouse of
Cottesloe’s new golf links for a jolly dance. The
hostess did her welcoming in strawberry ninon
ornamented upon the skirt with frilly panels, and
had as offsider sister Rachel Salmon, whose frock
was a bubble of shell-pink gauze. Among those
bidden to the party were the Sam Grimwoods, the
John Stoddarts, the Charlie Bunnings, Mrs. Stubbe
and her medico, Madge Calder, Jeffrey Hearman and
some Manfords and Hobbses.
Tassie’s titbit: —
There have been several farewell parties for
departing travellers. Among recipients were Mrs.
Mclntyre and her daughters, Mrs. Fred Grant and
Mrs. Ross-Reynolds, now on their way to India;
Mrs. J. G. Mitchell and the Misses Butler, Mrs.
B. Brewster and Miss Lesley Staughton, all bound
for London
Violinist Ursula Jarrett, with Mrs. Norman Blain
(soprano) and Miss Burchem (pianist), has been
in the Speck for several weeks, and has found time
between concerts to visit various beauty spots. The
little lady is a keen admirer of the Speck’s scenery.
The party gave a very successful concert at New
Norfolk, Mrs. Biain’s old place of residence —she was
Miss Ellis Deane —before leaving the Island.
The Launceston “Players” started their 1932
programme at the King’s Hall with the Quintero
brothers’ Spanish play “A Hundred Years Old.” The
principal parts were read by Dr. K. Mclntyre, Edith
Henry and Phil Fysh.
Peter Fysh was secretary of the committee that
organised a fete in aid of the Northern Tas. Lawn
Tennis Ass., at the courts in Hart-street, Launceston.
Stalls with the usual impedimenta—which always
get sold, too—were set about the grounds; tea
was a constant draw in the club house, and tennis
on skates, fancy-dress matches, etc., kept a big
crowd of spectators amused.
Parliamentarians and many lesser folk went out
by car to the official opening of the Old Beach-
Risdon-road. Premier McPhee made the opening
declaration, and the R. A. Olives, whose proeprty
lies just near the junction of the new and the
Bridgewater roads, entertained a big party at tea.
The road has been a godsend to some hundreds of
men who would otherwise have been unemployed.
It is distressing to have to record the untimely
death from blood-poisoning of Edith Youl, the
Charlie Youls’ younger daughter, who had just dis-
tinguished herself in the National Games in Mel-
bourne. She was a most popular young figure in
athletic and social circles.
Two recent engagements: Lellie, second daughter
of Warden E. and Mrs. Burgess, Geeveston, to Charles
Hedley Calvert, Waterloo; and Prudence Margaret,
only daughter of Mrs. and the late W. Hodgman, to
Harold, second son of Capt. Marriott, M.H.A., and
Mrs. Marriott.
F. L. Biss, manager for the Union S. S. Co. at
Hobart, has retired and is succeeded by M. W.
Horton. Mrs. and Miss Horton arrived recenfjy
from Sydney; Mr. Horton was with the U.S.S. Co.
in New York before coming to Australia.


The Australian Art Exhibition
"THE MACLEOD GALLERY
I 8u I let i nlu ikiinqs f
I 252 Georqe Street. j
14 S Y O N E. V If 1
VjJpV'
See announcement page
Keep hopping snd hoping if you wish
lo succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 41 Bridge Street. Sydney.
NS
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
RADIO B BATIERIES
/ torch refills
Neu) es Setter"- ,*^ a ' ars '
nfy
p
Ik
WH*
NOT
aminon
m
SPECIAL concessions have brought Pacific
lsland tours within reach of all, so why not
spend your next holiday amid ideal surroundings.
Excursions to SUVA—HONOLULU—RAROTONGA—PAPEETE
For full particulars apply
UNION S. S. CO., Ltd.
N.Z.
247 George Street,
Sydney.
and Union Lines
59 William Street]
Melbourne.
BIG
IN
SIZE
OUTLOOK
CIRCULATION
V. The
ittukt
WESTRALIA’S LEADING
WEEKLY.
Certified circulation means a lot to
national advertisers. The Perth
“Sunday Times” is the only paper,
daily or weekly, to issue certified
figures.
FOR WESTERN COVERAGE
CHOOSE THE LARGEST PAPER
IN THE STATE.
Sydney Representative:
HAL JOHNSTONE, Wingello House,
Angel Place. ’Phone: 85690.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Cotvtuins everything a woman needs to know,
Henrietta Maria.
WHEREIN J. H. M. ABBOTT
TAKES A LOOK AT NEWCASTLE IN
THE ’THIRTIES, AND ENCOUNTERS A SHATTERED ROMANCE.
IN the eyes of the chaplain’s daughter,
Sergeant John Augustus was a demigod
who honored this earth by the simple
fact that lie trod on it; and his loud and
truculent voice was the sweetest music that
could be listened to. His six feet three of
stark manhood, enormously exaggerated by
the high shako with the regimental badge
of the 39th, and having a glorious chin-
strap of brass scales, was more majestic
than the recently blown-down spire ot
Christ Church had been in its lifetime. The
steely blue eyes staring aggressively out of
it on either side of his large and pugnacious
nose were the windows of a soul as noble
as it was rare. The closely-cropped ginger
whiskers ornamenting the angles of his de-
termined jaws were the handsomest male
face-decorations she knew of. In short,
there was nothing about this paragon that
was not wholly excellent. Henrietta Maria
had even a better opinion of Sergeant John
Augustus than the sergeant had of himself.
She was a dainty creature, this only
daughter of the Rev. Alfred Pennyfaith.
colonial chaplain at Newcastle, and rector
of Christ Church—a little blonde bit of
beauty extraordinarily out of keeping with
her sordid environment. The village at
the mouth of the Hunter River was still
very obviously branded with the broad
arrow. The penal establishment had been
removed to Port Macquarie,-but the convicts
who worked on Major Morisset’s - intermin-
able breakwater, which was not finished
until 1857, were still lodged in the gaol
down on the narrow neck connecting Col-
liers’ Point with the mainland, and two or
three gangs were employed in the coal-
mines under assignment to the A. A. Com-
pany. They slouched through the village in
little squads in early morning and at even-
ing, and reeled about it drurikenly in their
few hours of leisure. It was unwise, for
women to go about unattended after night-
fall, and blasphemy and profanity were
always everywhere. Sometimes, outside the
gaol, public executions took place, and from
without the barrack wall it was possible to
hear soldiers being flogged, and the things
the soldiers said were not nice—not much
nicer than those the prisoners shouted
and bellowed when their backs were being
tickled by the cat-o’-nine-tails in the yard of
the courthouse.
However, the introduction of steam navi-
gation had recently rendered the settle-
ment’s isolation a little less pronounced—
a long-continued “black” nor’-easter had
been known to cause the sailing-packets to
take the best part of a week over the sixty
miles that lies between the entrances of
Port Jackson and Port Hunter —and the
arrival of the Sophia Jane at the King’s
Wharf twice in seven days was still an
event that stirred the community. Even
the chaplain himself would cram his beaver
top-hat on his lofty brow, and make his
wav down to the harbor-side to sec the
little steamer tie up to the wharf, and land
mails and passengers and cargo, before
going on up the river to the Green Hills
(Morpeth), at the head of navigation for
ocean-going shipping. And when he did so
Henrietta Maria would accompany him find
give the people of the place something even
prettier to look at than the Sophia Jane.
There was little that was of interest to
a young girl in such a place. Companion-
ship of her own sex was strictly limited
to> the wives of the one or two civil officials,
such as the head storekeeper, the super-
intendent of convicts and the overseer. of
the A. A. Company’s primitive collieries.
The Commandant, Major Thripp, was a
grass-widower whose wife and family were
in England, whither he hoped to be follow-
ing them in another twelve months. Of
the officers of the garrison of one company
of the 39th, the C.O. was Captain Morton,
for whom a fair-haired ticket-of-leave lady
“kept house,” and who could not possibly be
acknowledged by the chaplain’s daughter.
Two of the subalterns were sporting gentle-
men who devoted all their spare time to
cock-fighting, kangaroo-shooting and fishing
in Port Stephens. The third, Ensign Cal-
thorpe, was a callow youth who frequently
got drunk and was much more at ease in
the back parlors of the town’s rather un-
savory public-houses than in the drawing-
room of the rectory. He was a poor sol-
dier, and looked it, and it was confidently
asserted by the rank and file of his com-
pany that it would not be long before His.
Majesty King William the Fourth would be
pleased to have “no further use for his
services.” So Henrietta Maria led a rather
lonely existence at Newcastle.
When the Rev. Alfred had been chaplain
at Liverpool, and Henrietta Maria was a
child of five, Mrs. I'ennyfaith had died —as
likely as not because of a certain inevitable
boredom not to be avoided with a husband
whose principal intellectual preoccupations
were loyalty to the House of Stuart and
bitter detestation of the memory of Oliver
Cromwell. The naming of the child after
the French princess, whom the unfortunate
king had loved so well aud so faithfully,
was merely a manifestation of the curious,
monomania that possessed him. A dour
Scots housekeeper—Mistress Jean Mackenzie
—had very efficiently seen to the girl’s bring-
ing up, and had nobly seconded her master’s
efforts in striving to keep alive in her mind
that she was descended from that Captain
Pennyfaith w r ho had so gallantly perished
at Naseby, when Fairfax and Cromwell had
signally discomfited and smitten the demoral-
ised forces of King Charles and Prince
Rupert. Above all things had she been
taught that she must never be “Harry” or
any other diminutive of her fearsome name,
but always and uncompromisingly “Hen-
rietta Maria.”
It was on the occasion of the King’s
Birthday celebrations at Newcastle, o*l
August 21, 1832, that Henrietta Maria had
first become aware of the existence of her
idol, and had, with all the romantic fervor
of seventeen, under the influence of a whole-
souled and enthusiastic worship of Sir
Walter Scott, immediately seen (at a dis-
tance) all the glamor of knightly tradition
and example in that soldierly under-officer
of the King’s army. He seemed to be not
only the perfection of gallant and' pictur-
esque manhood, but also to be the, living
exemplar of those dreams of idealism which
have ever made knight-errantry so popular
with most young girls at some time or other
before they are quite grown up.
For drab and primitive .little.. Newcastle,'
the martial display carried out under Major
Thripp’s personal supervision that lovely
August afternoon was extremely creditable.
Pipe-clayed, shiny with polished arms and
accoutrements, rigidly steady in all its
parade movements, “B” Company, of the
39tli had most splendidly acquitted itself in
the royal salute at noon, when the - two-
gun battery of 32-ponnders, constituting the
main artillery defences of the port, had fired
their salute' of twenty-one rounds. And
when they marched past the commandant on
the general parade-ground, all the officials,
together with free people and prisoners,
being present, there was no one in that stir-
ring-pageant so splendid to behold as the
mighty soldier. It was John Augustus who
should have been permitted to bellow, at the
critical moment, “Compan-ee —heyes right!”
and not the weak-voiced Captain Morton.
Henrietta Maria had felt her heart flutter
in her little bosom as the heroic personage
marched past the saluting-base on the right
flank of the company. The very look of him
had made it a day of days, for ever to be
remembered with a thrill of maidenly delight.
On the particular forenoon with which
this brief chapter of Henrietta Maria’s
biography has to do, as she walked down the
hill from the rectory with her father to meet
the incoming Sophia Jane, she thought that
never before had she seen at Newcastle so
lovely a morning. The long white curve of
Stockton Beach, stretching , away - north-
eastward to distant M'orna Point, was a
golden bow against the deep sapphire of the
ocean, and the blue peaks about the entrance
to Tort Stephens, more than twenty miles
away across the bight, stood clear-cut against
a cloudless sky. North-westward, the shin-
ing reaches of the broad estuary of the
Hunter wound into hazy distances. And
against such a background, stiffly erect and
more majestic than the mountains them-
selves, the square scarlet shoulders of Ser-
geant John Augustus, twenty yards ahead
of them, perfected all this loveliness of sunlit,
land and sea and cloudless summer sky.
“Isn’t he wonderful!” she exclaimed, her
beautiful eyes a-glisten, as she surveyed the
huge, athletic figure making its stately pro-
gress towards the bank of the river.
Out of his dreams the Rev. Alfred heard,
and turned a mild and absent glance ot’
inquiry upon the daughter walking demurely
by his side, in pink coal-scuttle bonnet and
light muslin summer costume. He took her
arm. in its long black silk mitten, and tucked
it affectionately beneath his elbow.
“And who is wonderful, my dear, pray !
It you are alluding to Prince Rupert, about
whom I have just been indulging some pass-
ing fancies, I quite agree with you. A gal-
lant and a dashing gentleman —a great sol-
dier, who served his noble master faithfully
and well ! They called him the Mad Cavalier
—the fools! A knightly soldier a fine
sailor, a man of scienae, an artist. Yes, yes,
my love: —you are quite right. He was one
who might have been anything—done any-
thing. Prince Rupert was” .
“Oh bother Prince Rupert, Papa!” cried
the girl, a little impatiently. “That splendid
man in front of us. I mean. Sergeant Augus-
tus. The best-looking soldier in New South
Wales—in all the world. I wonder if he 11
turn round and speak to ns? Call to him,
Papa.. Pd love to say good morning.”
The chaplain lifted his dreamy eyes, and
became aware for the first time of the scarlet
figure of the tall warrior stalking along be-
fore them. ,
“We shall see him at the wharf, my love.
But, as you observe, he is truly a fine
example of vigorous manhood. Some regard
him as being a little overbearing—a little
brusque, perhaps. But ’tis merely the im-
perious manner of a strong man. What a
pikeman he would have made! Now, as I
was saying, my child” He babbled on,
in his gentle, scholarly fashion, of the old
dead things in which his pretty daughter
found little to interest her.
With a long bellow from her whistle, the
Sophia Jane was gliding up the harbor to
the wharf. By the time they reached it she
would have been moored alongside.
“Let us hurry, Papa,” she cried, “or we
won’t see who’s come.” •• •
As they turned into Hunter-street, Ser-
geant Augustus halted and stood stock-still
and bolt-upright, staring wrathfully at a
little. squad of soldiers who, with bayonets
fixed, came marching down .the hill, by way
of the' thoroughfare which has long been
known as Bolton-street, from the direction
of the military barracks. They were under
the charge of a corporal who had recently
been appointed, on probation, an acting-ser-
geant. Henrietta Maria gripped her father's
arm with a sudden squeeze, and drew him
to a standstill. ,
“Oh, stop!” she half whispered. He s
going to talk to them. Listen —oh, listen.
I do so want to hear him praise his men !
Don’t they look smart, Papa—so shiny and
so clean? Wait just a moment, Papa—if
you please. Oh, listen !”
“Halt!” bellowed the big man angrily. His
huge void! caused the acting-sergeant to
become noticeably limp. The stolid privates
stared straight ahead, standing like ramrods,
but there was some air of wilting about them
also. The chaplain and his daughter stood
mute, Henrietta Maria smiling adoration of
her perfect hero-with-a-hero’s-voice, and the
mild-looking chaplain blinking benevolently
at the half-dozen scared privates and the
terrified non-commissioned officer halted in
their rear.
“Now, d —n your ey,es and ears, Cor-
poral Mott,” angrily roared Sergeant Augus-
tus, “and sink my soul, what the devil d’ye
mean by it? Look at these men! Private
Coggins hag two buttons of his jacket un-
done, and Private Jowett’s come out without
his cartridge-box! Gawd stretch my limbs
and twist my neck, I’ve never heard of
such things! March the squad back to
barracks and dress ’em properly before you
bring ’em through the town. At the double.
d—n and blast ye! You won’t wear no
three stripes, my lad, that ye won’t!
Squad! Right about turn. Double — march!
Oh, ye flaming pack o’ tailors’ dummies!”
“Oh, come along, Papa!” gasped Henrietta
Maria, a little horrified. “The steamer’s at
the wharf. Come.”
There was a tremor in her voice, and she
shivered as she clung to her father’s arm.
and dragged him onward. Something had
happened to shatter her romantic fancies
about John Augustus.
The Sophia Jane was .safely moored when
they reached the riverside. The gangway
had been shoved aboard aft of the port
paddle-box, and the passengers were begin-
ning to come ashore, carrying their baggage
in their hands. On the upper deck three
heavily-ironed prisoners, guarded by two sol-
diers and a corporal from the headquarters
in Sydney of the 39th. stood waiting for the
escort to the gaol which Sergeant Augustus
had sent ignominiously back to barracks.
The sergeant himself came striding through
the crowd of spectators and idlers upon the
wharf, a black frown disfiguring his hand-
some countenance. Henrietta Maria trem-
bled a little as she looked at him.
“Keep your prisoners aboard for a minute
or two, Corporal Flett,” he roared. “They’ll
be taken over directly. The escort’s a little
late. They won’t be long. I sent ’em back
to”
His bellowing instructions to the corporal’s
party were, suddenly interrupted. ■A fine
buxom, strapping woman with red hair had
just come up the gangway, followed by a
girl of about the same age as Henrietta
Maria, and a brood of half a dozen brothers
and sisters, diminishing in size to two lusty
young toddlers, a boy and a girl, who were
evidently twins. The party lugged a strange
assortment of baggage, including a white
cockatoo in a cage. One of the younger boys
towed a frightened mongrel after him. Very
obviously they were a family party.
“Gussy,” bellowed the red-lieaded woman
to Sergeant Augustus, “stop that flamin’ bel-
lerin’, an' go an’ get th’ boxes ashore. Ye’re
more noisy nor useful. Hurry up, now!
They’ve all been sick, an’ so’ve I. Get a
move on wi’ ye, ye big booby!”
Henrietta Maria gasped, expecting the
skies to fall. But she saw Sergeant John
Augustus greet his obviously better-half with
a dutiful kiss as she marshalled her brood
upon the wharf.
“Yes, Sissy,” he said mildly. “Yes, my
dear. Glad to see you all in Newcastle. The
house is ready for ye. There’s a cart for
the luggage a-waiting outside the shed. Did
ye have a good passage?”
“Never mind what sort of a passage we
had. Go an’ get them boxes from th’ hold.
You talk too much.”
A little tearfully Henrietta Maria stared
at the masterful woman. Her head swam.
“Papa!” she whispered, “do come home.
Ob. dear me, I can’t bear it.”
“Yes, yes, my dear,” said her father sooth-
ingly. “Of course we will go home.”
The Triumph.
In old Imperial Rome a conqueror
Who walked with Death in battle’s stress
and fire,
With dauntless soul no human foe could tire,
When sleepless nights and days of strife
were o’er
And home he turned from the red fields oi
war, .
Found waiting him the dream of his desire,
The Triumph, where his name rang ever-
more,
Where roses rained, and from each' tower
and spire
The glad bells flung their welcome in his
way,
And his beloved Rome, the beautiful,
Acclaimed her son as one invincible;
And all the perils past, and long duress
Of weary years, and battle’s utmost stress
Were blotted out in that most perfect day.
n.s.w.
NELLIE A. EVANS.


ADVICE TO MEN
WHO ARE DISCOURAGED
WITH PRESENT CONDITIONS
THIS is a personal
message to the
man who wants to
win a secure place for
himself in the next five
years.
It is a message to the man
who feels that he should be
earning several hundred pounds
more a year, but simply lacks
the confidence necessary to
command one of the bigger
places in business.
The Alexander Hamilton
Institute has recently published
an interesting 80-page book.
This book points out the excep-
tional income opportunities for
exceptional men which will
occur in the next five years. It
also announces an unusual Ser-
vice, available to you in your
own office or home, which
enables you to prepare yourself
to take advantage of these rich
opportunities.
The ablest business minds—
the men who have had most
Business conditions have
radically changed in the last
few years. The old rules no
longer work. There is a whole
new set of rules to be mastered.
New influences are at work
everywhere. There is a new
sales strategy, there are new
production methods, a new
exchange situation, new methods
of determining asset values, a
wave toward bigger consolida-
tions—in short, a New Era of
Business.
to do in shaping present-day
tendencies — have contributed
greatly to this new Service.
i
m
111!
: book will be sent you by mail —
out charge—if you ivill simply
post the coupon below.
Systems may crack in times
like these, but individuals can
go ahead just the same.
Many men are finding the
answer to their problems in the
Alexander Hamilton Institute’s
new Service for business men.
Representing the condensed
experience of the best inter-
national business brains, this
new Service is the most com-
prehensive, tangible help avail-
able to executives in meeting
the difficult business conditions
of to-day.
Men who are satisfied with
departmental jobs and small
earnings will not be interested
in this type of Service. It is
offered to the kind of men who
want to become officers of their
companies or go into business
for themselves.
“What an Executive Should
Know” is well worth half an
hour of your time. Many men
have said that in 30 minutes it
gave them a clearer picture of
their business future than they
ever had before.
The old rules of business no longer work—
Send for the book which tells how you can
learn the new rules
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
INSTITUTE
(Division of Hemingway & Robertson)
38 BANK HOUSE, BANK PLACE, MELBOURNE
38 BARRACK HOUSE, BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY
Offices All Capital Cities
To ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE at
(Capital city name).
Please send me, without obligation, your new book
for 1932—“ What an Executive Should Know.”
Name
Business Position '
Business Address 38 / 7
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GJP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose &
4
NAME ....
ADDRESS ,
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/«
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/.
mt
0°
t
?'
•••'., ?\vH^
•' o'*
I 0 ?*
H'


% ain Goodyear L mas with
the
NEW IMPROVED
STANDARD ALL-WEATHER TYRE
for Extra Miles
of Non-Skid
Wear
1
§
I
m
Goodyear again makes tvre history, with its NEW IMPROVED
STANDARD ALL-WEATHER ... the tyre of 1932.
This New Improved Goodyear Standard All-Weather Tyre is
something distinctly out of the ordinary in value and performance.
It has been made as near non-skid as a tyre can be. The tread
is deeper and the famous diamond-shaped blocks are strikingly
prismed into the sidewalls, insuring added traction in ruts and
over soft roads.
See this 1932 Model tyre at your nearest Goodyear Dealer . . .
TO-DAY!
ELE V E N
GREAT
IMPROVEMENTS
. . ..... No Increase in Price
1 Its centre non-skid design is cut 10%
deeper.
2 Its shoulder non-skid design is 50%
deeper.
3 Its non-skid blocks are placed with
wider grooves.
4 It has full centre traction, eliminating
the submerged centre rib.
5 Its non-skid blocks have slightly
rounded points for slower wear.
4 Its riding ribs are braced on the out-
side, as on the latest truck tyres.
7 Outer non-skid blocks are braced on
outer edges, as on latest truck tyres.
5 The sidewalls are embellished with two
decorative ribs.
9 The outer non-skid blocks are strik-
ingly prismed into the sidewalls.
10 In all sizes cross sections are made
equal to Heavy Duty measurements.
11 These changes in design make the
whole tyre heavier—bigger.
X
n
1}
II
b
C 5-13-32
MADE
IN AUSTRAL I A
