

1
is*
»§®
Hk.
“GENERAL O’PINION"
SAYS—
‘‘Whatever your Politics
be Politic in your Pleasures”
sadf
WINE
taxation
The Bulletin
- kiuuisui 'PqmMAA —'PcuCjQ
Vol. 53.—N0. 2729.
Wednesday, June 1, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


o ur Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars, post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
Storu Writing
vJ IiJI Vf at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
—— SEND THIS COUPON _L__
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College
WO Russell Street. Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write' jor Profit a.i
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. 1
My Name
My Add <■•■•<»
S.B. 232
sdf
o
3
K
Australia
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
£r-
The World’s Gayest Book.
THE FRENCH PICTORIAL NUMBER.
“THE MUSTARD POT”
Twice the size of “The Mustard Pot Annual” and a
hundred times better. Eighty pages of Pictures with
a Punch, Jolly Jokes, Jovial Jests, Verse and Short
Snappy Stories. This issue will make even a glass eye
sparkle. Punch. Pep and Pictures and lots and lots of
Art Photos of Lovely Girls.
Only 1/- at all Bookstalls; or send 1/2 in stamps and
a copy will be sent by return mail in plain cover and
securely wrapped. Don’t delay, send to-day.
“SINS OF SOCIETY”
It is a powerful plea for tearing away the veil of mystery
that has so universally shrouded this, subject of the penalty
of sexual immorality. II is a plea for light on this hidden
danger, that fathers and mothers, young men and young-
women may know the terrible price that must be paid not
only by the generation that violates the law, but by the
generations to come. Price 2/6. We pay postage.
ill Ora
LONDON BOOK CO., LTD.,
Permanent Postal Address:
Box 38, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Winning Hands
require careful attention. The
first requisite is a pure soap.
Cuticiira Soap used every
time you wash your hands does
much to prevent redness and
roughness caused by daily tasks.
Always dry hands thoroughly.
Assist with f iidciira Oint-
ment if necessary.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,"’
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand,' London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
IF
you desire to reach that section of
the N.Z. public that moulds the buy-
ing habits of the rest;
IF
you have a message for New Zealand-
ers who have more money to spend
on more commodities than the many;
IF
your goal is a market with the maxi-
mum capacity to respond to your
advertising efforts, then cover the
Wellington Province, the highest in
spending power, by using the most
effective medium,
the Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85241,
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Peculiar People
There is a vast literature concerning them,
but their doings never grow stale. Oscar
Wilde was a second-rate dramatist, and a
fourth- or fifth-rate poet, yet he has been
the subject of more biographies and
memoirs than Hardy. Max Beerbohm,
Epstein, Shaw, Alfred Douglas, Shaw’s
latest biographer Frank Harris and many
other moderns are in the same category. It
has always been so. We hear more of
Pepys, Boswell and Casanova from the
literary gossips than we do of their great
contemporaries; and fresh information is
always welcome. They are oddities, peculiar
people, corresponding in life’s pageant to
the freaks at a show. The people in the
books discussed below are all interesting,
as freaks; and, in addition, they haye been
written about with rare charm and insight.
A Maharajah Dan by Day
J. R. Ackerley, author of Hindoo Holiday
(Chatto and Windus, 8s. 6d.), heard that
the ruler of a State which he calls Chohok-
rapur wanted a young man from England,
and volunteered for the job. Those who
like humor and bright writing will be
glad he went; upholders of the British
Raj probably won’t. The Maharajah
proved to be about sixty, small and very
slight, with a face like a Pekinese dog,
and a vivid clothes sense. When first met
he was wearing a green velvet hat, violet
and grey coat, white cotton trousers, purple
socks and dancing-pumps; and on another
occasion
a purple overcoat of European cut, lined with
pink. The yellow spots down the collapsed bridge
of his nose had been renewed; he had not shaved.
A travelling rug was draped about his knees, and
over the top of his green and gold bonnet and
beneath his chin a bright red woollen muffler was
bound.
His muddled taste in clothes matched his
mind. He and the author are driving to-
gether.
Suddenly his Highness remarked: “A daughter
was born to me yesterday.”
“I know,” I said. ‘‘I was going to congratulate
you; but the Prime Minister says it is .rather a
subject for condolence.”
“No, no,” he said; “you may congratulate me.
T am pleased. I wanted a daughter.”
“But aren’t they rather a nuisance on the whole?”
“You are quite right; a very great nuisance.”
Later:—
“You know,” he said dimly, “a daughter was
born to me at Garha last night?”
“Yes, yes, I have heard.”
“I am very pleased,” mumbled his Highness
sombrely. “I wanted a daughter.” Then, after a
moment’s pause: “Are you sure it was a daughter?”
Mr. Ackerley’s touch and style are so light
and winning that you soon get to like his
strange friends. Particularly the Maharajah,
who is as insanely vague and inconsequential
as any Lewis Carroll creation. Abdul, the
tutor, is another comic masterpiece. Apart
from the brilliant descriptions of things and
places seen, and the characterisation,
Hindoo Holiday contains much informa-
tion about the queer customs and super-
stitions that still dominate native India.
Men-Women
0. P. Gilbert, in Women in Men’s Guise
(John Lane, 12s. 6d.; translation by J. Lewis
May), deals chiefly with female masquer-
aders of his own nationality. Nearly
third of the book is devoted to the career
of Therese Figueur, who first suggested to
Sardou the character of Madame Sans-Gene
Therese fought in the infantry at the siege
of Toulon (where she met Bonaparte), anc
was eventually offered a place on Berna-
dotte’s staff. But the Marshal’s intentions
were strictly dishonorable. She was revolted
by his overtures (“That he should hold me
thus cheaply, I, who, like him, had fought
on the field of battle, sword in hand!”),
and demanded and was given a permit to
return to Paris. She met the end of many
a good soldier—poverty and death in an
almshouse. The most interesting of these
studies to the average Australian reader
should be that of the woman who inspired
Gautier’s best-known novel. Mademoiselle
de Maupin was born in 1670. She was
famous in Paris as an opera-singer early
in the eighteenth century, and even more
so as a swashbuckler.
She would stop people in the streets, slap their
faces if they were shopkeepers or servants, and
make them draw if they wore the garb of gentle-
men.
She fell in love with Serannes, a fencing-
master, and travelled France with him,
giving fencing displays, disguised as a man!
One day she decided she was sick of men in
general and of Serannes in particular. What a
piquant contrast it would be if a virile woman like
herself were to show herself about town in company
with some blond-tressed maiden: How it would show
up her dark-hued charms!
She saw her ideal
in a th e atre,
“obtained an inter-
view, and bewil-
dered the poor child
with her passionate
de c 1 arations. So
began the odyssey which forms the subject
of Gautier’s book, but it was a mere episode
in her stormy history. She lived for a time
with Maximilian, Elector of Bavaria, who
got rid of her with a pension of 2000 livres;
returned to the stage; had other affairs,
and unexpectedly turned religious. Then
she died, and in the simple phrase of her
biographer, “her body was cast upon the
rubbish heap.” Most of the Amazons met
similar ends. Angelique Brulon, who fought
in seven campaigns and was three times
wounded (once at'Waterloo, where her leg
was shattered by a cannon-ball), and who
won the Cross of the Legion of Honor for
valor, died in want in 1834; Anne Grand-
jean, who, towards the middle of the
eighteenth century, was exposed in the
stocks with a placard “A Defiler of the
Sacrament of Marriage,” and Catalina de
Eranso, who fought for Spain in Peru,
vanished, and were heard of no more. If
this book has a moral it is, Be normal if
you don’t want to be unhappy.
Some English Murderers
Five of the six “difficult cases” in
Notable Trials (Chapman' and Hall, 12s.
6d.), the latest book by the Recorder of
Rotherham (R. Stony Deans), are murder
cases. Unlike most crime-writers, he is
more concerned with the law than the
facts. His method adds to the value of his
works from a legal standpoint—one like this
might well be used as a textbook by a
Bar student—but it detracts from their
drama. Sometimes he doesn’t even bother
to mention what became of his subjects.
He has a gift for summing up celebrities
in a few words. Take a sentence on the
Judges of the ’nineties:—
There was Hawkins, as hard as the nether mill-
stone, except to his dog; there was Cave, Falstaffian
of figure, rubicund of face, with his “This won’t
do, y’ know”; there was Coleridge, Chief Justice,
polished as a diamond and no more tender; there
was Mathew, kind of heart, but too anxious to get
on with the job to bother about niceties; there was
that grim humorist Day ; and that ferocious though
sentimental Sussex squire William Grantham.
Another of them, Baron Pollock (“There is
a Pollock face just as much as there is a
Hapsburg lip—a long, pale, strongly-marked
countenance, which is most effectively dis-
played under the wig of a lawyer”), pre-
sided at the trial of John Canham Read.
Read (“A Question of Proof”) was con-
victed of a murder at Southend on the
identification of four weak witnesses. There
is no doubt of his guilt, but his counsel
made so much of the matter that changes
were ordered in the staging of identification
parades which reached as far as Australia.
The trial of Bywaters and Mrs. Thompson
(“Incitement”) has been done more excit-
ingly by other writers,, but never with such
a wealth of detail. Mr. Stony Deans gives
just on 40 pages to it, and concludes with
an acute criticism of the summing-up.
Macrae (“Identity”) and Lord Byron of
Rochdale (“The Judgment of His Peers”)
are also examined on lines which will delight
criminal lawyers, and help to explain why
the world thinks so highly of British justice.
RED PAGE.
Novels with (and without) “Key”
In an interview which she gave after the
successful appearance of her “Boomerang,”
Helen Simpson is reported as saying
“ ‘Boomerang’ is half fact, half fancy. One
has to tone down the truth, it is so improb-
able. One has to force it down, and still
it seems to stand out from the rest—like
working a design with some prominent
color, a bright cerise, for instance, and
quiet greys and browns. Facts are so un-
convincing in a novel; they happen without
the expected cause-s and effects of carefully-
planned fiction. One has to smooth them
out with fiction.”
These words must probably be taken with
a little salt. Still, the general idea is clear,
and what light do they throw on the author’s
method with boomerang”? How has she
darkened or softened the loud colors of
truth, or rather of fact? Apart from the
obvious historicity of the grandfatherly
legends in the book, with their names
mostly changed and perhaps dates pudied
about, there is one startling fact which the
author has verified in her foreword. Feel-
ing that people would say it was too im-
piobable, she has gone out of her way to
say that it was a literal fact—this imper-
sonation, in Australia, of a well-known
Englishwoman who was an author, play-
wright and public speaker. In the novel
this episode of Martina Fields, the encounter
with the false one in Australia, the friend-
ship in England with the real one, is all
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” Has Built Anthony Horderns’.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
EVERYTHING for
HORSE and RIDER
at Lowest Prices
m
VI
Equestrian Clothing
at Economy Prices
Whipcord Breeches
Men’s Fawn Cotton Whipcord Ag ,
Riding Breeches. Laced fronts. Self
strappings. Cross and hip pockets. '
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair 25/-
Jodphurs now at 19/6
Men’s Jodphurs in Fawn Gabardine. Com-
fortable for riding. Dispense with leggings
or pull-on boots,
Anthony Horderns* Price, pair 19/6
Pommel Slicker
Oilcoats now 35/-
Men’s Pommel Slicker Oilcoats. Guaranteed
waterproof. Sizes, 48in to 58in.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, 35/-, 45/-, 55/-
Birkmyre Canvas
Riding Coats at 59/6
Genuine Heavyweight Birkmyre Canvas
Riding Coats. Leather collar and cuffs.
Waterproof! Will last for years.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 59/6
Felt Riding Hats 18/6
Pure Fur Felt Riding Hats. Three-inch
snap brim. In shades of Fawn or Steel Grey.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each .... 18/6
( Men’s Wear—Ground Floor, George Street.
We -pay carriage.)
Horse Rugs
These Rugs are made up
in our own factory from
materials imported direct
from the mills. Every
line carries our guarantee.
When ordering Rugs for
Horses, measure the
animal from the centre of
chest along the side to
the full length required.
Horse Rugs are fitted with
Cross Web Belly Strap,
Fillet Rope and Breast
Strap. The lining used in
these Rugs has been speci-
al 1 y manufactured i n
Australia for Anthony
Horderns’ and is unex-
celled for wear and com-
fort.
Protect your horse from
the Cold .
K.
r»
'***< iLJLr*’ ■.
**%
“The Universal,” made of heavy jute canvas, with
grey check lining.
Sizes, 4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in.
Prices, 16/6 17/6 18/6 18/9 19/6 20/-
The “Guardian,” heavy-grade navy canvas, lined
grey check.
Sizes, 4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in.
Prices, 19/6 20/9 22/- 22/9 23/3 24/-
The “Hordernia,” made of extra heavy-quality
flax canvas, with grey check lining,
Sizes, 4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in.
Prices, 21/- 22/6 23/9 24/6 25/3 26/-
The “Dreadnought,” special heavy flax canvas,
with grey check lining.
Sizes, 4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in.
Prices, 26/3 28/6 30/6 31/6 32/6 33/9
The Birkmyre “Genuine” O.M. Green Waterproof
Rug. Grey check lined.
Sizes, 4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in.
Prices, 25/- 27/- 28/9 29/6 30/6 31/9
The Birkmyre “Genuine” O.M. Khaki Waterproof
Rug. Grey check lined.
Sizes, 4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in.
Prices, 26/3 28/6 30/6 31/6 32/6 33/9
Leather Cross Belly or Leg Straps 5/6 extra.
“Keep-on” 12oz. White Duck Horse Rugs. Grey
check lined.
Sizes sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in.
Prices 34/3 36/3 38/- 39/- 40/3
“Keep-on” Genuine “Birkmyre” O.M. Green or
Khaki Waterproof. Check lined.
Sizes sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in.
Prices 35/9 38/- 40/- 41/- 42/3
“Keep-on” Dreadnought Special Heavy White Flax
Canvas. Check lined.
Sizes sft. sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in.
Prices 35/9 38/- 40/- 41/ 42/3
Extra Breast Strap, 1/6. Kersey Lining, 6/3
extra
( Department—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Free delivery city and suburbs only.)
BOOTS
m
Elastic Side
Riding Boots 18j11
Tan and Black Calf Elastic-side
Riding Boots. Standard screwed
soles. Neatly shaped. All sizes
from 5 to 10. Anthony Horderns’
Price, pair 18/11
to withstand both
WEAR and WEATHER
Willow and Box Calf
Riding Boots now at
27/6
Tan Willow and Black Box Calf Elastic-side Riding Boots. Genuine
welted soles. Available in full and half sizes. Made in best-grade
leathers. Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair 27/6
Guaranteed Waterproof
Rubber Lace Boots
All Rubber Lace Boots. Guar-
anteed waterproof. Neat shape.
Ideal for all wet work and
riding. All sizes. Anthony
Horderns’ Price, pair . . 12/9
n
{Men’s Boots—Ground Floor, George Street. We pay carriage.)
Anthony Horderns
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C. G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.


Left—As Ihough a gigantic knife had sliced
it in twain! The famous Half Dome in the
Yosemite Valley of California.
Below—The Olympic Stadium at Los Ange-
les, in which 105,000 persons will witness
the principal events of the Tenth Olympiad.
sdf
sdf
sdf
3BS
&
SI
m
The. renowned Ferry Building, landmark of San
Francisco, whose tower welcomes ships steaming
into the Golden Gate.
© nee *
in a generation
ike Olympic Qantes in AMERICA
ALWAYS a sportsman’s para*
dise, America in 1932 is the
Mecca of the sporting world!
With the Tenth Olympiad at
Los Angeles and other inter-
national competitions being
held throughout the land, here
is an opportunity both rich and
rare! For the Olympic Games
are not likely to occur in Amer-
ica again within the span of
persons now alive!
Thus California, starred by her
glittering Olympic pageant, is
a fitting introduction to a great
continent, of endless charm
and interest to the visitor!
A vast continent whose sport
centers, great cities and mani-
fold scenic marvels are linked
by superb railway systems—
providing every comf or t known
to modern travel! Delicious
meals, luxurious club cars, v&let
service, magnificent Pullman
sleepers! Frequent and rapid
trains, prompt arrivals, and
stopover privileges allow you
to see so much—and the cost is
surprisingly low!
Swift Matson liners take you
to San Francisco with stops at
New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa and
Hawaii. The fleet is headed by
the new “Mariposa” and the
“Monterey” whose express
service makes this the shortest
route to England! May we send
you ®ur illustrated booklet and
explain how every detail of
your trip all the way to Eng*
land may be completed before
vou leave.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL
and INFORMATION BUREAU
12 Bridge St. Sydney Tel. 87981-3
sttt
R5-IA
IF YOU MUST BE PAID
TO READ THE NEWS...
....what of the advertisements?
The Brisbane Courier” depends for circulation solely on its
wholesome, cleanly-presented news and its vigorous policy in
public questions. Subscribers buy it to read it. As a result its
circulation is the greatest and most effective in all Queensland.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s leading paper for 84 years.
Representative: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 85007.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Divcctovs *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW. V.D, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birclun-Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.


STOP HOST ILLNESS
AT THE SOURCE
mm
V-
OSS
s:;
Wm
8
i
yy-
mm
ssl
11111111
Practically every illness begins with some
minor ailment* Most of these ailments are
the direct result of constipation, frequently
unsuspected* Indifference to this condition
is dangerous. Take Eno’s "Fruit Salt” daily
.. ♦ a dash of "Fruit Salt” in a glass of water
morning or night **. and you will ensure
that inner cleanliness which means real
health and vigour* And, unlike so many
other laxatives, Eno is non-habit forming.
For the sake of your health insist on
Eno’s "Fruit Salt”.
c 7she words &no and "tyruit Salt” are registered trade marks.
Sales dPlgcnls: ‘xShe SBritish i Harold £? ffLitchie & Go. d£td., Sydney.
A.u.3
ENOS FRUIT SALT
placed in the ’nineties. This fits the pattern
of the book, and is also part of the forcing-
down process, taking away the literal
factual truth and welding the character
into “carefully-planned fiction.” We are pre-
pared to accept the Martina Fields story
as true within the limits of the story, just
as we almost accept the whole book as
fiction. The book being “period” and full
of skilfully-implied dates, the mind natu-
rally plays round Martina Fields, not so
much questioning the appearance of the
sham Martina in Sydney as wondering what
Englishwoman in the ’nineties was at once
a well-known novelist, playwright and
public speaker. If it were the last decade
or so, there would be figures like Clemence
Dane....
And there, of course, is the individual, to
whom the author, after all, cannot resist
giving us the key, in a verbal pun: —
Oranges and lemons
Say the bells of St. Clement’s,
I owe you five farthings,
Say the bells of St. Martin’s.
There are the two London churches close
at- hand, St. Clement Dane’s and St.
Martin-in-the-Fields. If Helen Simpson had
honestly wanted to keep us from seeing
the bright cerise of fact, she would hardly
have handed us such a strikingly pretty
little key. It is all rather like the story
of the lady who, having come down in life,
had to cry “oysters” in the street but hoped
nobody would hear her. Are we to “hope”
nobody guesses that Martina Field's is
Clemence Dane and asks if Clemence Dane
was ever impersonated in Sydney?
It is not by such half-hearted screening
of facts as by anagrams that an author
makes a fiction true to its own laws. A
patchwork of brilliant bits has not the
quality of a scene woven in tapestry. A
novel with a key is not a novel but a
stamping-ground for inquisitive people.
Readers of Marcel Proust’s great series
of books, “Remembrance of Things Past,”
have sometimes found themselves tempted,
by the very fulness and depth of his scene,
to discover so-and-so behind his significant
characters. When Proust describes the
sonata of Vinteuil, with its haunting
phrases, doesn’t he “mean” Cesar Franck’s
sonata, and is Vinteuil Franck? And isn’t
Elstir, the painter of seascapes, perhaps
Monet? And Bergotte, the writer, who
is he? And the mature actress in the
book, is she Bernhardt? Yet even while
we fumble like this, we feel wrong. The
ego of the book, who is not Proust himself
but some figure of fiction, let us call him
Marcel, knows his Vinteuil, his Elstir -and
his Bergotte in their works and in person:
he has given us what he knows, not a
composite of facts about Franck but anew
musician with personal problems and inti-
mate characteristics that may (as Proust
suggests repeatedly) have taken the author
a lifetime of impressions and experiences
to see as a whole. There is no key to such a
character: the name of Cesar Franck would
unlock nothing, except that we feel that in
this big social canvas, evoking for us a
whole period Proust has given us, among
other things, a suggestion of Cesar Franck’s
music as it haunted the ear, an indication
of Monet’s challenge in interpreting land-
scape, and a hint as to some writer who
influenced Proust’s own richly-difficult
style. But a key? This is what Proust
writes suddenly in an aside in the last
volume, “Le Temps Retrouve”:—
In this book, where there is not a single fact
which is not a part of fiction, where there is not
a single character “with key,” where everything
has been invented by me according to the needs of
my demonstration.
He means it. The book, whatever the facts
and persons that have entered into it may
have been, is something profoundly new
and whole, all carved out of the carver’s
brain. Here is no mere toning down of
fact by the judicious introduction of fancy.
Thp whole theme in a novel that is essen-
tially responsible and coherent is taken
to some depths in the writer and there
steeped until it suffers a sea-change. Per-
haps that is part of what the ancients
meant by saying that truth lies at the
bottom of a well.
NETTIE PALMER.
Hollywood as an Art Centre
“J.D.’s” article (R.P. 18/5/’32) on “Why
Hollywood Is Scoring” invites comment. He
takes as his text a passage from a report
of a lecture on films by Kenneth Wilkinson,
which has been abbreviated so that it gives
a wrong impression. It suggests that Mr.
Wilkinson was handing the palm to Elstree
as against Hollywood. No such thing.
Both Mr. Wilkinson and speakers who came
after him agreed that in England film pro-
duction has been regarded as a sideline of
the stage proper. That has been a great
weakness. The view expressed by Mr.
Wilkinson was that the really important
film work nowadays is being done on the
Continent, in Russia, Germany and France.
Elstree was merely included in the original
passage of his address as sharing the advan-
tage possessed by other Continental film
centres of knowing that there is a world
“full of a number of things” independent
of the studio. Hollywood seems only to be
aware of the rest of the world as a market
for its films.
“J.D.’s” contention that art is always self-
centred and that exclusive concentration
upon art is necessary to its creation is an
attractive idea, but specious. And I do
not think that his illustrations altogether
help his case. I do not quite know what he
means by “beauty” when he says: “In the
golden age of Athens the inhabitants talked,
thought and dreamt beauty, and achieved
it.” That remarkable people obviously
thought a great deal about wars and poli-
tics and an empire-building which contained
some unlovely episodes, as well as about
the glorious poetry, sculpture and so on
that they produced. Do we not have
the moral drawn for us, when we learn
about the Periclean age, that our word
“idiot” is just the Greek word for “private
citizen,” since to the Greeks a citizen who
could not take his part in public affairs
was something less than a man? If my
memory serves, yEschylus, great poet though
he was, fought for his country at Marathon,
and the wise Socrates, undoubtedly an
instance at times of extreme concentration
upon his thoughts, one year held public
office and another year acquitted himself
valiantly in battle. Then, again, surely the
Elizabethan poets owed something to the
kindling of patriotism and to the stimulus
of adventure and discovery caused by the
wars against Spain and the voyages to the
New World.
But to return to Hollywood and its status
as an art centre. It has this qualification
for being so regarded, that it has attracted
to itself from all over the world innumerable
actors, many directors and playwrights. Von
Sternberg, whose ideas in direction, accord-
ing to “J.D.,” have been so freely imitated
by lesser men, graduated, if one may use
the term, and had already distinguished him-
self in Europe; and many of Hollywood’s
brightest stars have come from Europe, not
a few from England. But have they done
their best work in Hollywood? Some; some
not; and some have not stayed there. The
rewards that Hollywood gives to the favored
ones are princely. But money alone does
not provide all the requisites for producing
great work. Often art has been produced in
comparative poverty. And how many of
“J.D.’s” painters in Chelsea and Montpar-
nasse make money their sole aim? Money,
however, appears the overwhelming con-
sideration in Hollywood. The report of
observers like Mr. Wilkinson is that the
High Command of companies there is con-
centrated on the box-office, not on art.
Under such conditions works of great clever-
ness may be produced, and may even be
produced with frequency, but creative art
has less chance.
BACKSTALL.
[Mr. Wilkinson must have been rnisreported. The
published extract from his lecture certainly implied
that Hollywood suffered from remoteness, whereas
Elstree didn’t (“The great disadvantage of Los
Angeles, as a producing centre, was in its provincial
situation. Elstree was within a few miles of
London”) ; and that Hollywood also suffered from
its habit of “thinking, talking and dreaming films.”
There is nothing specious about the idea that con-
centration upon art —the “capacity for taking pains”
—is necessary for its creation; it is a platitude. Of
course the Greeks of the Periclean era thought,
talked and dreamt war, and so did the English of
the Elizabethan era. That is why they produced
illustrious soldiers and sailors. Their war-spirit
wasn’t responsible ■ for their writers and artists so
much as the fact that they thought, talked, and
dreamt art and literature as well as war. Australia,
with a far greater literate population than ancient
Greece or Elizabethan England, thought, talked and
dreamt war between 1914 and 1918, and produced
soldiers and sailors as brave and skilful as any
in history. What it didn’t produce then, and hasn’t
produced since, is a single work of art or literature
of world-significance. It has never been widely
interested in such things. As showing how little
culture owes to prowess in the field, Michelangelo
and his school flourished under Cosimo dei Medici
after Florence had been besieged, taken and humbled
to the dust.
With regard to the film-work now being done in
Germany and France, it is negligible. It has been
the fashion for years, in a few “arty” London
circles, to praise it extravagantly, chiefly as a
counterblast to American films which are anathema
because they are successful. No one derides French
films so cruelly as Parisians —and particularly
Parisian artists. As for the modem German cinema,
could anything be slower, stagier or more humorless
than the Ufa dramas which have been • trade-shown
in Australia ? I haven’t seen any recent Russian
films, but gather from the “Clarion” and “New
Statesman,” both of which are sympathetic, that
they are largely devoted to Soviet propaganda, and are
correspondingly worthless. Anyhow, most Continental
talkies are of no more practical concern to 99 per
cent, of Australians than untranslated Continental
books. Our choice, for good or ill, lies between
Hollywood and Elstree, and so far, unfortunately,
Hollywood is scoring. That is to say, amid the
inevitable preponderance of rubbish turned out by
both centres, • the occasional good picture, such as
“Old English” or “City Lights,” emerges oftener
from Hollywood. It isn’t because Hollywood is
after money—the whole world is after money, and the
greatest artists are no exceptions—but because it is
passionately interested in, and proud of, its job.
There is no other recipe tor success.
J.D.I
And a Little Verse
GREEN ISLANDS.
There are green islands I shall never know,
Beyond far capes in hyaeinthine seas.
Where, morn and even through the olive-
trees,
The palms and vines, thin silver trumpets
blow
Down the long valleys and from steep to
Most musically and with joyous breath;
Call they the islanders to dance or sleep,
The golden islanders to love or death?
There day goes gently with the evening flight
Of birds that soar for home on splendid
wings,
Streams murmur from their dark, secluded
springs
Through all the hours of the starry night;
And love comes gently, gently as life goes,
With measured joy and with a sweetened
grief,
Gently as comes to blossom the full rose,
Gently as falls at last the golden leaf.
ENGLAND.
D. P. McGUIRE.
Answers to Correspondents.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) mil be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless stumps accompany.
M.T, (W.A.) : A sweet note, but feeble.
....Don G.: The English part of the yarn is poor,
and so is the finish. . .George E. S.: Leave it to
Rod Quinn; his song is much smoother... .Isham:
'The “Sun” is the paper to print it. But, frankly,
we don’t think you demolish the other fe110w....
A.M.K.: Afraid you’re suffering from that very rare
complaint compression... .F. 8.: You seem to have
lost your thought in a jungle of rhyme... .J.J.F.:
“Echoes” futile; “Violets” better-keep 0n....
W.D.E.: Your invitation is a labored effort. See
how Herrick did that sort of thing... .Brian P. M.:
An idea, not well worked out... .Hesperian: Shows
more clearness of expression First stanza loses
metre midway.... Muriel L.: Too studied; but it
has some good lines. In other days it would be
asked in.... Anne Nominus: Quite likely; it isn’t
a new thought. But we can’t trace the phrase....
Sadie M.: We put it in class 111. That’s where
the people are from whom we hope for better
things... .M.M.: It isn’t human nature. But the
pictures ought to like it... .C.G.L.: Far-fetched
. ...V.C.W.: We couldn’t swallow it.... E.M.E.:
Hopelessly old-fashioned... .Harold A. B.: Too
obscure. When you write for The B. keep your
mind on the man at Cooktown and the woman at
Albany. You’ve got to write something they can
both understand .Noel R.: Goes with such a swing
it nearly made us believe it was true... .Francis
J. B.: More of the note of Good Friday than of
Christmas in your carols. Mend the last line in
No. 2 before offering elsewhere... .P.W.: Uninspired
rhyming... .T.W.N.: You say nothing new, and
there’s no beauty of line to help the commonplace.
G.V.B.: Threadbare Peter the H.: Can’t get
the hang of the tragedy... .A.C.G.: Your storm blew
straight into the basket.... Dunker: Smells worse
than the most dissolute goat this paper ever had
the misfortune to meet... .E.J.W.: Overflowing with
the expected... .H.D.R.: Either muddled thinking
or hopelessly tangled expression R.8.A.: The
season’s against you, for one thing, and it’s not
worth cold storage...-S.A.: “Pan’s Legacy” is a
promise rather than a performance L.J.W.: It
wouldn’t be poetry even if you cut it up into twice
as many lines C.D.: Rather clumsy; and to get
through that sort of thing must be done very neatly.
E.V.B.: Doesn’t make what you’re driving at
clear enough Ruby D.: Too many sentences vio-
lently dragged in to make rhymes.... M. de P.: No;
but there is a pleasant quality in it.... Dom: Hope-
less. You don’t talk like that to your class, do
you? T. 5.8.: Not yet; but you glimpse poetry,
P.J.I.: Threadbare Noel M. T.: Ditto; but
the work in it is fair E.0.P.: Too much like an
inventory. But there’s an idea worth working out
in lines six-eight, second stanza—“Cloisonne too.”
.. . .YsobeUe W.: A faint gleam of promise. But
tune your ear. Some of your rhymes should have
made your teeth ache 8.G,: The form is all
right. Now find something to use it on P.V.H.:
Thank you. We’ve printed dozens of “request
numbers” on that page. But you should have given
us the date K.M.K.: It promised well, then
petered out H.J.S.: Make it one or the other;
story or political article L.E.G.: This is no
parking ground for fairies M.W.: Nothing in it.
- ...J.D.K.: Don’t want “The Sentimental Bloke” in
prose ‘‘ ‘ ‘ : Send * to a raifwaymenV magazine,
- ; ■ ; .M.D.: Runaway-marriage t yarn [night Retool
girls’ paper. G. 8.: Reads more hke a page from
a studbook than a racing story ..D. AS.. Mild,y
but that’s not enough.. T.W.T. Old
P 0t... C.G : Could see the end a-mile oft. .....
Unpohshed .J.C.P: Too wordy a " d
ventional... .Dejected: Well, we’ll take a chance
and spring the price of three verses
Afterpiece Undeceived*^
Myscif, and leaves me pained and peeved?
tiie Bulletin
Y et can it be that i am blind?
That you are cruel to be kind—
Act thus to stimulate my mind,
' O'Bulletin?
Persistently to Hope I cling
A nd yet another effort bring,
So s’pose you do the handsome thing,
O Bulletin.
P.N.: Hopeless at that length. No contribution
for those pages should run beyond 300 words....
V.G.D., J. 8.0., N. L. Tremayne, Horton B.: Went
out on the third reading; in more spacious times
there wouldn’t be a third reading P.E.S.: Doesn't
make us believe it R. J.A.: Commonplaces
poorly dressed... .K.A.J.: Henley’s “Let Us Be
Drunk” rather spoils this theme for others. Still,
there’s quality in yours A. Greg: A passion for
detail:—
Other lanterns now alight
Within the tents upon the shore
Point the tourists’ camping-ground
Amidst the trees behind the store.
be observation, but it s not poetry.... .
Senior: Much obliged. It shall have attention,
ij,g ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS
T.J.: Why do all your characters lurch to the
left ?.... J.M.L.: Nothing funny in any of them....
R.C.: Aspirates are not her only trouble. Have
another look at the legs you have given her
H.T.: Admire your zeal, but not the result. ...
V.S.: You mustn’t jump another artist’s claim....
L.A.N.: Learn the rudiments before tackling arn-
bitious compositions 0.J.: Far below standard
required F.W.: Try to get your pen under better
control.... S.A.A.: Decayed jest... .P.T.: Farmhands
in these parts don’t pull their forelocks when
addressing the boss D. 8.: Lad has a dashing line,
though humor is weak H.E.R.: Make your figures
smaller and draw ’em better J.M.: Drooped
when it faced the office inquisitor J.E.L.: You’re
lackadaisical... .W.D.0.: Vulgar without being
funny... .8.H.: Conversation between stunted flappers
is mere silliness M.G.: You’re improving... .K.B. :
Drawing so frail it had to be carried to w.p.b.
wrapped in cotton-wool W.H.S.: Firmer and
smoother lines needed F.L.8.: Political cartoons
should arrive red-hot; yours is stone-c01d... .G.M.S.:
No infant prodigy, though he shapes well. Get him
an instructor A.F.: Lacks wit C.H.: Remove
the background and see how poor the figures look.
L.C.: Pity the conjurer couldn’t produce a
printable drawing for you.


sd
fgh
fe,
Jill
I
■
: i
V',
*
"I
■H
SIM
Hna
|\
iiiii
H
I f J:;.
iilll
II
■ laii
■
iii
H
■
■
Hi
m
SHI
'
d
.........uiK
w jy*
Y,I
V
1
. I
.
■'l-. : •
w-jrSr
ill;
fsdf


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2729.
June 1, 1932.
THE LEADER WHO LET THEM DOWN.
MOSES LANG: “But why do ye shout out against me? Have I not stripped your enemies bare?”
LANG’S EX-FOLLOWERS: “Yes, and left us also hungry and ragged. Two empty bellies don’t make a full one, fool and braggart!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, H Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 Jjs.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz,
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for joz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
LANG’S DOUBLE-HEADER.
When a man buys a yard of tape he knows
he will get the same length to-day as he
got yesterday and will get to-morrow. But
when he gets a £ he does not know that
it will be the same measure of value at any
two times. It cost him £2 a week to
live this year; at some other time, buying
precisely the same quantities of precisely
the same goods, it may cost him £4; or,
again, it may cost him only £l. He expects
to pay more for some things at some times
than at others; but when practically all
things move up or down everywhere at
the same time, he knows that it is not the
supply and demand of the goods that are
responsible for the movement in prices,
but some great change in the standard of
value. The effect is the sqme as if the yard
were 18 inches to-day and 36 inches at some
other time; and a standard of measurement
of that sort would be too absurd to even
think about.
Yet the variations would not matter a
great deal if the price fell when the yard
shrank from, say, 36in. to 18in. and rose
when it lengthened. The worst that would
happen would be much unnecessary labor
and inconvenience in making price adjust-
ments; and nothing is surer than that those
adjustments would not keep perfect step
with the variations. But the greatest injustice
of all would occur in connection with long-
term transactions. A man who contracted
to supply goods at ss. a yard when the yard
measured 18in. would face ruin if he had
to supply 36-in. yards at the same price;
and the buyer would stand to make a for-
tune.
Ridiculous as all that would be, it is pre-
cisely what happens under our money sys-
tem. The £ from 1919 to 1926 bought less
than half of what it did before the war,
and to-day it will buy approximately 50 p.c.
more than it did five years ago. Yet if a
man raised a loan in 1913 he paid in 1926
only the interest agreed upon at the begin-
ning, and the man who borrowed in 1926
is to-day required (apart from a few local
•adjustments) to pay the interest fixed at
that time, though the money he now gets
will buy 50 p.c. more.
A wholly self-contained country, which
neither buys nor sells abroad and has
neither borrowed nor lent abroad, can
escape without damage. Every other
country must meet trouble, and those
countries which have entered into most
long-term engagements must meet it at its
hardest. Australia is among those countries.
It borrowed for everything; it has an over-
seas debt of £600,000,000. When it bor-
rowed some of that money wheat was worth
ss. per bushel here, so Australia could then
pay £5 of interest with 20 bushels of wheat.
To-day it must export 40 bushels to pay
the £5. We cannot say to the lender,
“You must take less.” We had borrowed,
too, when wheat was 35., and Avhen it went
fo 6s. we never dreamed of offering to pay
more interest. Nor did our creditors demand
more. They suffered from a bad money
system then and we suffer now. But while
we cannot break a contract any more than
our creditors could when things went against
them, there is no reason why the rotten
system should be continued.
Any honest relief which it is possible to
obtain, pending a change in price levels,
can come only from negotiation, so far as
foreign creditors are concerned. Internally,
however, something can be done by legis-
lation ; and the "Premiers’ plan is no more and
no less than a straightforward attempt to do
it. One effect of the world’s absurd money
system, as we have seen, has been to make
the £ worth more, so that we have to pay
bwo bushels of wheat or two bales of wool
for what we previously paid one bushel or
one bale. If our £ could buy what it
formerly required £2 to buy, everybody
obviously would be just as well off if all
wages and other payments were divided by
two. The Premiers’ plan did not, of course, go
that far. It proposed a 221 p.c. reduction
of interest on our public debt, and various
other reductions. In essence, the scheme
was entirely just: the idea was that all
prices and payments should come down
to match the change in the value of money.
Mr. Lang, however, would not, play fair.
‘‘Yes,” he said, “money is worth more than
it was; therefore interest must come down.
But wages must not come down, though the
same money pays both wages and interest.”
Nine times out of ten the gentleman who
rings in a double-headed penny thinks he
is very clever. But that never stops an
Australian crowd from turning him out as
a dirty trickster.
Whatever Mr. Lang may do, Mr. Stevens
and his party must—and The Bulletin
believes will—play the game. Their busi-
ness is to remove as far as is humanly
possible the effect of the fall in prices in
Australia. Too much has been said about
making sacrifices. What Mr. Stevens must
do is to put an end to some of the sacrifices
which tens of thousands of people have
been making, and the still greater sacrifices
with which they are threatened. We cannot
(except by inflation, which is not a State
matter) put up prices, cannot put money-
value back where it was. But we can very
largely see to it that none of our people
gain by this rise in money-value at the
expense of others of our people. Thou-
sands of thrifty workers, the men above all
others we ought to stand by, have seen
the equity in their purchases disappear,
leaving the mortgage unaffected. Something
must be done for these men, and it must
be at least as much as has been done for
their fellow-sufferers the Governments.
Governments, as we have seen, got a
22s p.c. reduction of interest (with a cer-
tain minimum) and an extension of time to
repay: the debt was spread over 30 years,
even though the Government had con-
tracted to repay within the next three
years. The Bavin Government proposed a
moratorium, and the Lang Government
more or less carried it into effect. But
Mr. Lang was never really concerned about
relieving the oppressed property-owner.
He never thought of the worker as a
capitalist, too —in the aggregate, the greatest
property-owner in the country. Instead of
relieving the harassed property-owner, all
of Lang’s legislation was devoted to taking
something from him—for the benefit alleg-
edly of those who had nothing. He gave
no relief against the State, for the obvious
reason that he could not put his knife into
anybody that way. The consequence was
that in no less than 117,500 cases people
who had borrowed from the Rural Bank to
purchase homes or farms, or had obtained
loans as soldier settlers, or were indebted
to the Lands Department for unpaid bal-
ances, got no relief at all.
Stevens will attack this problem, not with
the thought of hurting anybody, but only
with the thought of helping. Lang’s mora-
torium law, which will expire in April next,
will be extended for three years; that is to
say, the owner of an equity will be secured
in possession until prices have a chance to
recover; and the debtors of the Rural Bank
and the Lands Department will be given the
same right to relief as anybody else. There
is a world of difference in the two policies
—the one inspired by hate, the other by
sympathy; one withholding relief if an
enemy could not be injured by giving it,
the other offering relief wherever the jus-
tice of the case calls for it; Stevens playing
the game fairly, Lang always ringing in his
double-header.
THE POLICY OF THE VULTURE
AND THE RAT.
The Australian is a shy and diffident per-
son. His Digger performances, instead of
refuting, confirm this. He was ready to
attempt tremendous things so long as no
fuss was made about it. He hated to be
conspicuous. It was not rudeness that made
him sometimes fail to salute; it was simply
that he preferred to be unobserved. If
he did anything which brought him three
cheers he had to grin and bear it; but
nine times out of ten he made an effort
to pass it off. A “skite” was the jest of the
camp and could have all the fight he
wanted.
And. after all, this was quite natural.
Australians have not been encouraged to
think much of themselves. Until quite
recently, what could they do, what had
they got? We might be all right for rough
jobs; but when it came to anything requir-
ing skill and intelligence—well, of course,
we would send abroad for it. We could
grow sheep, certainly; but we couldn’t wash
the wool properly, and even now some
people are not sure that we ought to try
to mill it into flannels. Rice we could
not grow; and though no doubt our wheat
was all right—thanks to the country and
not to ourselves—if we wanted anything
better than very common biscuits, we would
buy imported ones, just as we had bought
imported boots and bottles and hats and
wine and shirts and bishops and silk stock-
ings. How could it be expected that Aus-
tralians would hold up their heads in the
face of the constant reminders of their
inferiority? So we have the spectacle of
the big, competent, intelligent and reason-
ably well educated Australian allowing him-
self to be pushed aside and ostensibly
represented by importations who have noth-
ing to recommend them but their colossal
assurance and their flexible tongues.
This has been a good country to us. Most
of us have had to work hard; but most
times it has been nature we have had to
struggle with—not with one another. Now,
that has had a profound influence upon the
national character. It has made the great
bulk of our people trustful, unsuspicious,
staunch friends, open-handed, hospitable.
In the great centres of Europe, on the other
hand, men are brought up a good deal like
vultures and rats. What they get they get,
not from the slow soil, but by outwitting
others, by their superior alertness or cun-
ning or impudence.
Again and again attention has been drawn
to the fact that the control of trades-unions
and Labor politics in Australia has passed
largely into the hands of men from the
crowded overseas—the Gardens and Forgan
Smiths and Donald Grants and Goslings and
Willises. Combative, brought up in coun-
tries where men and women and children
got what they got mostly by fighting, beak
and claw, it is not surprising that these
immigrants from overseas have overborne
the infinitely more capable Australians.
And, naturally, they have brought with
them the politics of the slum and the ghetto.
The conditions natural to Australia they
neither understand nor want to understand;
and here they are joined by a certain number
of Australians brought up under conditions
as much like those of Glasgow and the
Bowery as our greater capitals can repro-
duce.
Sovietism or Communism, or whatever
we like to call it, may be the best thing
lor Russia, may even seem to hold out
the only hope to the squalid and perpetual
poverty of the slums of Glasgow and
Paris. It means that, these wretched
people, born in poverty and bred in poverty
anti doomed to die in poverty, may—per-
haps only for a glorious week—gorge them-
selves, hear the clink of money always in
their pocket, have so much that for the first
time in their lives they will know whence
the food and drink for to-morrow and the
next day and the next will come. Com-
munism would be an appalling failure if it
did not bring something better to these
people. But what is the position in Aus-
tralia? In its Savings Banks in 1930 there
were 793 accounts open for every 1000
people; the average deposit per head of the
whole population was £33 15s. 7d. In build-
ing societies there were over 60,000 mem-
bers, for the most part making loans to one
another; the loans granted in the last year
for which records are complete were
£2,822,000. There were 121,015 members
of producing co-operatives, with a gross
turnover of over 23 millions sterling. In
life assurance the industrial policy-holders
are the poorest; yet of these policies at the
end of 1929 no less than 1,640,989 were in
force in Australia for £71,053,864, Of ordi-
nary policies 908,807 were in force for
£290,313,314. Of rural freeholds there are
no less than 166,693 of less than 1000 acres,
with another 31,607 of from 1000 to 5000
acres: the average living area in the Cen-
tral and Western divisions of N. S. Wales
is over 5000 acres. At the middle of June,
1930, there were 22,700 factories in Aus-
tralia, and no less than 15,650 of them
employed under 10 people—little industries
owned and run by working men with hopes
of some day owning a Sunshine implement
factory or a Holden’s bodyworks; both
started with less than 10 men. And, finally,
besides the bulk of the 196 millions in the
savings banks, it is certain that the
workers of Australia own a great part of
the 285 millions on deposit with the joint-
stock banks, as well as much of their share
capital. Because of the high par value of
its shares (£2O), the Bank of N. S. Wales
is probably less held by people of small
means than any other bank in Australia.
Yet there are 13,823 shareholders in this
bank, and the average holding is only £5BO.
While the worst that Communism might
reasonably be expected to produce would
be an improvement on the conditions under
which the slums and ghettos live, its best
could not approach the conditions under
which the Australian lives. Here at least
two-thirds of the population have some-
thing put by; in other words, they have
something to lose, and in the aggregate the
something amounts to hundreds of mil-
lions.
Because there is misery and hopeless-
ness in the slums and ghettos of Glasgow
and London and New York the Gardens
and the Donald Grants and the Goslings
and the Forgan Smiths, with their Austra-
lian city-bred allies the Langs and the
Beasleys, want to introduce a cure here for a
non-existent disease, and destroy the happi-
ness and the bright prospects of hundreds
of thousands of Australians in the process.
Will these Australians protect themselves,
as they most effectually can, in N. S. Wales
and Queensland on June 11, or will they
let the policy of the slum and the ghetto
prevail—the policy of the slum and the
ghetto, which is the policy of the vulture
and the rat?
SHALL IT BE CIVIL WAR?
Do the majority of the electors of N. S.
Wales want a rebellion against the Com-
monwealth? Do they want a Trades Hall
capital levy, enacted in defiance of the
Commonwealth, the consummation of
which would mean the triumph of rebellion,
plus robbery? Do they want to see the
N.S.W. public-servants placed in the posi-
tion of having to obey the orders of a rebel
Government and break the laws of Aus-
tralia or accept summary dismissal? Do the
people of N. S. Wales want a continuation
of the mad and bad measures which broke
their Savings Bank, caused their State to
be posted as a defaulter and obliged every
third trade-unionist to go on the dole? Do
they want default erected into a system,
deficits which despoiled banks can no longer
carry, the flight of capital and industry in-
creased tenfold, another Black Thursday in
the civil service, another a.nd worse stoppage
of social-service payments?
No; the people of N. S. Wales want
none of these calamities. But they will
get them all, with the grave possibility of
an overseas boycott of their goods and the
still graver possibility of civil war added,
if they swallow the latest lot of lies pre-
pared for their consumption by the arch-
liar Lang.
These lies were brought forth in the
Auburn Town Hall. There, on September
23, 1930, John Thomas Lang said: “The
Labor party sets its face against all repudi-
ation”; there, on May 26, 1932, the same
John Thomas Lang spoke like a politician
who, in his rake’s progress from repudiation
to rebellion, has become incapable of telling
the truth. “The Courts,” he declared,
had decided against him because thev
were “corrupt”; the Governor dismissed him,
not, as Sir Philip Game said, because “it
is impossible for me to put the Crown in
the position of being a party to illegal
action,” but “because dismissal was the
only way in which the petition of the Union
Bank and the five other moneylenders not
to assent to the Mortgage Tax Bill could
be complied with.” Yes, the representative
of the Crown dismissed the Government
two hours after “the Union Bank and other
oversea moneylenders approached him; the
hand of the assassin struck swift and un-
erring.” But “the dagger will be taken from
the hand of the assassin; I ask you to give
us a mandate to say that we will not
tolerate as a Governor any person who
believes that his authority to unmake Gov-
ernments is greater than the people’s
authority to make them.” This attack on
the King’s deputy, who caused a repudi-
atory and rebellious Ministry to be sent to
its masters—masters who had sanctioned
neither repudiation nor rebellion—is intelli-
gible, if characteristically mendacious and
insulting. What is astonishing is the hatred
of “moneylenders” animating a politician
who lent £13,700 to the “Labor Daily”
(while loading it with Government adver-
tisements), at 2 p.c. more than the rate of
interest specified in his “plan,” no mora-
torium (his moratorium) to apply.
Just before his dismissal was pronounced,
John Thomas Lang was bowled out in three
lies, uttered within a few hours. One was
that the directors of the Bank of England
were chiefly foreigners; the second, that the
Commonwealth Bank had refused him
facilities for making social-service pay-
ments; the third, that Justice Dixon had
drafted the financial agreement for Bruce,
and was therefore biassed in favor of the
Financial Agreements Enforcement Act.
In the same spirit of reckless lying he said
at Auburn, “We were asked to renounce
the Lang plan, and replied that we could
not do so” (as everyone should know, he
did renounce it to get money for his civil
servants, and, having got the money,
repudiated his repudiation of it, default-
ing again); then he had the effrontery to
assert that a small outside committee’s
recommendations, submitted to the recent
conference of Premiers, and rejected, were
the Premiers’ plan.
Turning to the unemployed (without, of
course, mentioning what he promised them
in September, 1930, another loan boom and
work for all), he said “If the High Court
rejects our [capital levy] legislation, we will
hypothecate three years’ revenue from the
unemployment tax, and by the issue of
debentures for 21 million pounds get back
into employment the great bulk of our
unemployed workers.” Under the latest
Constitutional amendment, and the measures
implementing it, the issue of such deben-
tures is barred without the consent of the
Loan Council, and such consent could not
possibly be obtained by a Government
which defaulted to and rebelled against
the Commonwealth. “The Government,”
he said, “will accept these debentures as
payment of income tax. It will be said that
this is a form of currency. Let them say
it.” Section 115 of the Constitution has
already said the last word on the subject:
“A State shall not coin money, nor make
anything but gold and silver a legal tender
in pa.yment of debts.”
Evidently the mob Government, if re-
turned, will fight the Commonwealth and
the sister-States on still another line. Deal-
ing with the Financial Agreements Enforce-
ment Act, he boasts that “we ignored it,
and week after week succeeded in outwit-
ting the Commonwealth Government” —
in effect, justifying rebellion in the cause
of default. He boasts further that “we
had beaten the Governments of the other
States and the Commonwealth” when “the
hand of the assassin struck,” and ends on
a threatening note: —
With an overwhelming' mandate to us from the
people, no Federal Government would attempt to
reimpose the Garnishee Act, because it would be a
defiance of the will of the people, and because it
would be futile.
The Prime Minister has promptly re-
plied that if rebellion lifts its head again
in N. S. Wales the suspension of the Finan-
cial Agreements Enforcement Act will be
at once removed. If his Government sur-
rendered on this issue, it would be all up
with the Commonwealth and everything
that the Commonwealth stands for. A vote
for Stevens, who is pledged to work in har-
mony with the Commonwealth and the
sister-States, is a vote for union, for
national honor and national security. A
vote for Lang is a vote for disunion, for
default. for dishonor, for chaos, which may
lead to civil war.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lang, the Confidence Man.
Lang in his policy speech said (the report
is taken from the “Labor Daily”)
Among the recommendations of the Premiers’ plan
is one on page 10 which says: “The wage-earner
must accept a reduction in real wages as well as
the adjustment of nominal wages. Wages must,
therefore, fall.” On page 19 it says: “Costs of
industry have been increased by many restrictions
imposed by Acts of Parliament.... A review of such
Acts , would reveal many directions in which these
restrictions could be loosened.” Having clone this
it is recommended on page 20 of the plan that men
should be put to work for employers who would
provide board and lodgings for those they employ.’
And on page 15 this statement occurs: “All things
considered, it seems prudent to act as if the period
of low prices will continue throughout 1932 and
even longer.” There is the Premier’s plan for you.
Previously he had said:—
At this election there will be two proposals
before the people. One will be the Premiers’ plan,
to which the Premier, Mr. Stevens, pins liis faith;
the other is the proposal of the Labor party.
And “there,” said Mr. Lang, after quoting
as above and giving the pages of his quo-
tation's —and “there,” said Mr. Lang, “is
the Premiers’ plan.”
Now, these are the facts. The Premiers’
plan was drawn up by the Premiers and
signed by them at Melbourne on June 10,
1931. The document quoted by Mr. Lang
was the report of a committee of business
men and economists, which did not include
a single Premier, which had no legislative
or administrative authority whatever, and
was not drawn up and signed till April
13, 1932 —10 months later.
The document quoted by Mr. Lang and
declared to be the Premiers’ plan is no
more the Premiers’ plan than Mr. Lang’s
speech was the Lord’s Prayer.
The Bulletin, therefore, charges Mr.
Lang once more with deliberately lying to
the people with intent to deceive them. It
charges him with attempting to get their
votes by means of a disreputable trick.
It charges him, not only with being a
cheat, but with being that mean and treach-
erous rogue who cheats his friends, and
betrays their confidence in order to do it.
*
The Choice of Judges.
Mr. Piddington’s resignation and the
manner of it should direct attention to our
method of appointing Judges and semi-
judicial officers.
At school and the University Mr. Pid-
dington did brilliantly on the literai’y side.
Leaving school, he became a teacher, and
was presently a University lecturer or
examiner in English literature, French and
German; later he added Spanish and Italian
to his accomplishments. Then he studied
for the Bar, and at 28 was called. Briefs
came.to him slowly; he turned to politics,
and in 1895 was elected for Tamworth,
where his father had for many years been
Archdeacon. For the next 10 years he
mixed law, politics and literature. He had
a most engaging personality: there was no
more dazzling talker in Sydney and few
better platform speakers—his literary tastes
and education gave him an enormous
advantage. In particular he charmed the
young men with whom he came in con-
tact; and he came in contact with many.
He could make even law fascinating.
But he got nowhere. He lasted through
only one Parliament. In spite of his per-
sonal fascinations his practice at the Bar
refused to grow freely.
Then, astonishingly, he was offered a
place on the High Court Bench. The men
who made the offer had been charmed by
him just as hundreds of others had been.
About his knowledge of the law they knew
little or nothing. They probably knew
something of his scholarship; they did not,
however, realise that a man might be a
brilliant scholar on the literary side and
yet neither have an atom of that vague
thing called commonsense nor be capable
of coming to a logical conclusion on any
set of facts. But others did realise it; aud
when Mr. Piddington was offered the High
Court Judgeship, immediately there was
such a commotion as Australia had never
known before. The Bar, which knew Mr.
Piddington, denounced his appointment;
and in view of this outciy he resigned.
From that moment until last week Mr.
Piddington has rarely been out of a well-
paid Government job. First the Labor
party in N. S. Wales, again charmed
by his talk, gave him a commission to
inquire into arbitration. After that he had
seven years as chairman of the Inter-State
Commission (£3OOO a year), though an early
decision of the High Court practically de-
prived it of all power. His term running
out, a place was found for him on a Com-
mission to inquire into the basic wage. That
job finished, he wrote largely on social
questions, and was rewarded by appoint-
ment as chairman of the N.S.W. Indus-
trial Commission (£2500 a year). For most
of these jobs no other man of Mr. Pidding-
ton’s attainments and high character could
have been less fitted. He was a doctri-
naire who had no practical knowledge of
business or industry. He did more than
anyone else to fasten the so-called basic
wage upon the community, the wage being
fixed, not according to a man’s earnings,
but according to his needs or supposed
needs; how it was to be paid if it was not
earned he did not think it necessary to
inquire.
Mr. Piddington would have made an
ideal University professor in the liteiaiy
subjects of which he was a master; or ne
might have been an ideal curate in an
industrial parish. He turned instead to a
field for which lie was as ill-suited as a
man could be, and he secured appoint men s
in which he could do great injury to the
community, because of qualities and attain-
ments and opinions which had no value
there at all—which, indeed, were damning
disqualifications.
And nothing is more certain than that,
unless we alter our mode of making appoint-
ments of Judges and judicial officers, siinilai
appointments will be made in future. 1 he
Bulletin disagrees entirely with the pi ex-
position that men who have served their
country in Parliament should be debarred
from appointment to the Bench. Some
of our soundest lawyers and greatest Judges
have been in Parliament, to the countiy s
great advantage. But. it strikes at the
very roots of our judicial system that any
man should be appointed a Judge because
he has been a party politician and can be
trusted to remain one. The man who is
not only a sound lawyer but has the judicial
mind is safe on the Bench whether he lias
been a politician or not. The Judge who
has not those qualities, no matter how
eminent he may have been in politics,
must be a public danger.
The choice should be removed entirely
from the politicians, if only because fbey
can rarely judge a man’s knowledge of the
law or whether he has the judicial tempera-
ment. If the selection were left to the
Judges themselves, we might fairly expect
that men would be chosen only for those
qualifications which the Bench ought to
possess.
«
The Hell-broth in Asia.
“Feng-Shui”: Japan’s decision to withdraw
from China can only be accepted with
reservations. The great industrial area of
Chapei is in ruins, but it is being rebuilt
with Japanese capital. A Jap puppet Gov-
ernment was recently established; a noto-
rious traitor, Chen Chung-fu, has been made
Mayor; Koo Tso-isiung, a theatre pro-
prietor, has been appointed chief of police;
the owner of a hot-bath establishment is
functioning as "head of the detective force.
With these and other queer allies the Jap-
anese imperialists are alleged to be plan-
ning to turn the city into a Japanese settle-
ment.
Meantime the boycott shows no signs of
diminution. In Manchuria guerilla war-
fare has broken out all over the huge
territory. The Soviet is reported to be
massing troops and aeroplanes on _ the
border, as a counter-move to the Jap seizure
of the partly-Russian Chinese-Eastern rail-
way, whose loss isolates the only Russian
outlet on the Pacific, Yladivostock. A new
ice-free port is being opened by Japan on
the Manchurian seaboard, and the security
of Korea is advanced as the reason for
Korea annexing part of the Chinese pro-
vince. Both the principal parties are fever-
ishly building fresh railways or duplicating
old ones, and a large section of the Japan-
ese navy is concentrated in North-Chinese
and Korean waters. There is talk of an
alliance between Japan and North China,
which is out of step with the rest of the
country since Nanking ousted Peking as the
national capital. Communism is growing
in Southern and Central China, and if
Japan supports the back-to-Peking move-
ment it will be on the score that it is
fighting the proletarian revolution.
The position is grave in Japan itself.
Owing to the breakdown of industry, even
the intellectuals and some of the old nobility
tend to align themselves with the Communist
party. The Fascist party has its representa-
tives. They raid hotel ballrooms with drawn
swords and separate dancing couples, dancing
in couples being regarded as an affront to
the sacred person of the Emperor and a
symbol of the detested modernisation _ of
Nippon. The domestic situation is suffici-
ently serious for a foreign diversion to be
not unwelcome to the modernisers, whose
prestige depends on a progressive expan-
sion of Japanese trade and territory. The
obvious antagonist is Russia, but a war
with Russia would bring the United States
into the picture. This would not be dis-
agreeable to the more rabid chauvinists,
who dream of an empire embracing the
Philippines and Guam, the nearest Ameri-
can base to Nippon. In this regard the
statement of an American Senator, that
Uncle Sam would do well to resume rela-
tions with the Soviet so that he could sell
munitions to all parties, is significant, and
also typical. In the meantime the League
commission in Manchuria is finding it diffi-
cult to get, a comprehensive view of the
situation owing to the danger of being
shot by somebody or other if it ventures
outside the narrow areas under Japanese
jurisdiction. If anything happens this year
it will happen shortly, as the ice is begin-
ning to break on the great Manchurian and
Siberian rivers, making a Japanese advance
on Vladivostock comparatively easy.
«
Cancer in Australia.
In Australia since 1908 cancer of the diges-
tive tract has increased 100 per cent,
amongst men, and 80 per cent, amongst
women. Female mortality from breast can-
cer lias increased heavily, too, in the same
period. Cancer of the tongue has decreased
amongst men, and increased amongst women.
Cancer of the skin is the only form of the
disease which shows a decrease —up to 1918
it had been steadily on the increase. Every
Australian over 40 lias one chance in sc\ en
of dying of cancer in one form or anothei.
Queensland had, consistently, a lower moi-
tality rate than any other State.
Yet the results of treatment are becom-
ing steadily better. The chief cause of high
mortality is delay on the part of the suf-
ferers to seek medical advice. Ihe records
of a big cancer clinic in N. S. Wales show
that, on an average, sufferers allow seven
months to elapse between first noticing the
early signs of the growth and going to a
doctor for advice. In the great majority
of these cases early treatment would have
saved the patient. The reasons for this
seemingly insane delay are pathetically
human—first, the optimism which thinks
that the thing will go away of itself; next,
the trial of various remedies for “a sore,
or for indigestion, winding up probably with
a course of “herbal” or “Chinese” medi-
cine; then the ghastly, growing fear of the
surgeon’s verdict and the knife; and only
when the pain and disablement of a wide-
spread growth force the issue, the visit
which should have been made months or
even years before.
For all those who have any suspicion that
they may be developing cancer, especially
for people over 40 who have any obstinate
sore or lump or swelling, or any steadily-
increasing “indigestion,” or similar condi-
tion, the only sensible course is to go to a
good doctor. It is not by any means neces-
sarily a matter of the knife, for the results
of radium treatment, which is quite pain-
less, have exceeded all expectations, especi-
ally in cancer of the lips, breast and uterus.
Even if the knife must be undergone for
the sake of longer life and some other death
than that which cancer inflicts, there is noth-
ing terrible about it in these of
anaesthetics and modern hospitals. 1 he
vital thing for the threatened to remember,
as against all advice of friends, all blatant
quack claims, all personal fears, is that
there is a 10-to-l chance of cure if advice
is sought at once, whilst the odds against
cure increase heavily with every, month
of delay. This is not guesswork;. it is the
result , of actual observation by trained men
on thousands of Australian cancer sufferers.
*
What Confidence Means.
If Brown has a pile of £lOO notes the use
of any one of them is obviously worth the
same as the use of any of the others, just
as a cash customer pays the same price for
all of half a dozen identically alike mouse-
traps. Yet we see one man charged four
times more than another for the use of
money. Why?
The simple fact is he isn’t. All the
notes are worth the same; and actually the
same amount is charged for the use of them
all. But Brown, who owns the money,
reckons .there is one chance in ten that
Robinson, who borrows it, will never repay
it. He must therefore charge something
extra —in this case, another 10 p.c.—to cover
the risk. If the risk is small—if, on an
average, only one in. forty borrowers of
that type fails to repay—then an extra
2 p.c. or so will cover the risk. But if
one in forty fails, then Brown, the money-
lender, who chai'ged 6 p.c. on those risks,
will be no better off than if he had lent his
money at 4 p.c. where these risks had not
to be carried. There are thousands of men
in every great city to whom it would be
bad business to lend money even at 100 p.c.
In other words, there is less than an even
chance of recovering either principal or
interest from them.
This, then, is what confidence means. All
money is worth practically the same amount
at the same time. The variation in the
rate of interest is due to the fact that
every investor or lender has to provide
for possible losses of capital. Where there
is hardly any risk a return of perhaps 5 p.c.
is thought ample; where there are heavy
risks, investment will not pay at less than
perhaps 20 p.c. And it is the almost invari-
able experience of investors over a long
period that the 5 p.c. investment pans out
better than the other.
Lack of confidence is one of the world’s
great calamities. Almost everywhere there
is money, but it will not offer itself for
long-term investment. It wants to hold
itself ready for flight. The position in that
regard is the same in Australia as elsewhere.
Short-term deposits are no longer sought
by the banks: they cannot find profitable
occupation for the money. Governments
may fix a maximum rate of interest; but
they cannot compel investment at that
rate. The only way to provide the people
with cheap money is to reduce the risks
in the lending. Cut risks out, make pay-
ment of interest and repayment of capital
sure at due dates, and money can always
be had at 4 p.c. or thereabouts. Every
fraction of risk added puts up the rate 5
or 1 p.c., and no law limiting rates of inter-
est can stop it. What it can do is to pre-
vent money being lent on higher terms
which means that it is not then lent at all
except on the best security.
During the past three years Australia s
credit has been terribly shaken. At times
Australian stocks have been quoted abroad
at a price which returned 12 p.c. Only
the fact that the Commonwealth held itself
responsible for interest prevented a crash
far greater than that in N. S. Wales loans.
In the State itself practically no money
has been available for investment. The
position had arisen when the large price
which had to be added to the interest to
cover the risk of loss of principal made
operations impossible.
There was a time when Australia could
borrow abroad at 3 p.c.; of the total State
debt of 727 millions as at 30/6/’3O, no less
than 159 millions was raised at 4 p.c. and
under. Of overseas debts 65 millions' will
have to be met by the middle of 1936; and
a saving of even 3 p.c. on that amount
will mean two millions a year less taxes to
pay. If by showing ourselves worthy of
credit we could save 1 p.c. on the whole of
our overseas debt alone, it would mean a
possible reduction of just upon six millions
per annum in taxes.
These are some of the bread-and-butter
matters to be decided by the electors of
N. S. Wales and Queensland on June 11.
In N. S. Wales especially, in order to pro-
duce the desired effect, it will be necessary,
not merely to defeat the Lang defaulters,
but to smash them. Neither State can
declare itself too plainly. Confidence will
come back in a flood with Lang and his
gang annihilated and Forgan Smith, set aside ;
with a mere victory, credit will come back
but capital will keep its eye on a possible
way of retreat. Generally at an election a
win is enough. It is not enough this time.
A bare majority is good enough in Parlia-
ment; more is needed to satisfy the world
and our own people that the defaulters
and the disruptionists are only an insignifi-
cant minority and can be disregarded for
the future.
♦
Mr. Lyons Can Be Too Kind.
Mr, Lyons is reported as having said
that he is endeavoring by all possible
means to avoid any retrenchment in the
Federal public service. It is very nice
hearing for the public service, of course,
but it is not assuring to the Australian tax-
payer. In the war and post-war years the
Federal Government built up a vast
bureaucracy, largely unnecessary, and paid
for it with loan money from abroad.
A great part of this vast and expen-
sive structure was created to placate
troublesome politicians, advised by ingeni-
ously-minded clerks bent on making good
jobs for themselves. Now the golden
stream has dried up, and only the Aus-
tralian taxpayer is left to carry the burden.
The country is taxed cruelly and fantasti-
cally, and the Commonwealth should give
the lead in reducing the load. It can do
it without causing a single case of unem-
ployment. It can do it by making no new
appointments and by reappraising services
and paying accordingly. There is no valid
reason, ethical on otherwise, why a country
in dire distress should single out a particular
group of its citizens to support them for
life, merely because they were appointed
to serve it in its days of affluence, in ways
which it cannot now afford, and which are
obviously unnecessary.
Recent gestures of “reorganisation,” of
moving officers from one grade to another
or transferring them to other duties, are
gestures only—mere eyewash and legpull.
They save the taxpayer nothing, and Mr.
Lyons’s definite job just now is to save
the taxpayer every penny he can, consist-
ently with maintaining the vital stability
of the country.
Mr. Lyons is a tired, kindly man, who
would hate to reduce Smith from a life
job at £7 per week plus regular rises, child
allowance, Canberra allowance (if Smith
lives at Canberra), 18 days’ leave yearly
on full pay, and all the other little luxuries
provided by a-grateful country in return for
sorting and storing a few hundredweight, of
official papers yearly. Moreover, Mr.
Smith, and Mr. Smith’s union, and its tame
M’s.P. would be veiy nasty and trouble-
some about it. Nevertheless, £1,000,000 a
year could be saved by reducing Smith, and
Smith would still have enough to live on,
unlike many thousands of other clerks who
did not have the luck to get dug into the
Government service in the days when the
golden rivers ran and are now on the dole.
Mr. Lyons would not have retrenchment
on his conscience, and the saved million
would cover a lot of useful ground.
♦
The Right of Impeachment.
“Ruslex’s” last word on the subject:—
“Coif” (B. 18/5/’32) says: “ ‘Ruslex’ doubts
whether the impeachment of political criminals who
cannot be reached by the ordinary criminal law is
possible,” but “admits that any State can arm
itself witli the power of impeachment by the neces-
sary legislation.” Well, after all, from a common-
sense point of view, both impeachment and attaindei
ale in these days foolish remedies. The real cure tor
the Langs of this world does not lie in ex pout
facto legislation, or in such violent proceedings as
impeachment, but rather in a healthy public opinion,
without which no State, with a democratic govern-
ment, can hope to exist. As The Bulletin' pointed
out in its now historic leader of May 11—and still
more recent events have shown —our Constitution, if
a chief executive officer behaves like a mad bull, gives
to that public opinion a chance to express itself.
The State may get rid of him and need never restore
him. There lies before the people of New South
Wales at these elections one simple issue: “Are they,
or are they not, fitted for constitutional government ?”
On which hangs the question: “Is our Commonwealth
to endure?”


1
4
#
QUALITY should be your
first consideration!
CRAVEN “AT
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6. 50 in flat tins, 3/9. 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
POLITICAL
POINTS
Speaking in liis policy speech about his
dismissal by the Governor, Lang said that,
after IS months of bitter fighting, the battle
had been won, and they were holding out
their hands for the fruits of victory, when
they were struck by the assassin’s dagger
in the back. Silly man! He doesn’t know
the difference between a dagger and a boot.
In 1929 N. S. Wales had 37 p.c. of the
factories in Australia. Since that year only
18 p.c. of the new industries started in Aus-
tralia have come to N. S. Wales. Lang pro-
mised to give the people work. He has
merely robbed them of it by driving it to
other States.
Quirk, the Langster M.L.A. for Rozellc,
had the only walkover at the last N.S.W.
State elections. This time all the Lang l
sters are opposed, and Lang failed to bring
out candidates against his arch-enemy Brux-
ner (Tenterfield), Henry (Clarence) and
Foster (Vaucluse) ; moreover, one Pullen,
whom he had “endorsed” for Manly, pulled
out, and another gentleman Avas “too late
with his nomination-paper” in Nepean. In
other words, Lang has confessed defeat in
sections with an electoral population of
75,000 or so, in four of which his nominees
polled well 19 months ago—r49oB against
Bruxner’s 7161, 4038 to 8322 in Clarence,
5670 to 9332 in Manly, 5501 to 7510 in
Nepean. His tail is down already.
One sign of the confidence inspired by the
Moore Government is- that the building trade
in Brisbane is quite brisk. In Sydney under
Lang it lia.s been dead for IS months, and
the men who used to be employed in it have
had a ghastly time. And Queensland inves-
tors must think that Moore is going to be
returned, for they have subscribed £lOO,OOO
toi the building of a viaduct connecting
Sandgate Avith Clontarf, another watering-
place on Moreton Bay. The viaduct will run
some miles across a shallow inlet of the bay,
and Avill greatly shorten present communica-
tions with Brisbane by road. It is expected
that 000 men will be employed for two years,
and the first sod is about to be turned.
It ought to have been worth a quarter-of-
a-million to somebody to get the N.S.W
Mortgages Taxation Bill through. As Mr.
Lang has explained, the measure had no
qualifications or exemptions— except, he adds,
this: Ministers were to-be the sole judges of
avlio should nay the 10 p.c. tax and who
should be permitted to escape: and there
“The Lang Government’s Mortgages Taxation Bill
gave the Government power to choose the mortgages
on which they would collect the tax and those on
which they would remit it.”
Lang’s Justice is blind.
was to be no appeal. The explanation offered
is that Ministers couldn’t trust “corrupt
Courts” to deal in public with any exemp-
tions and exceptions ; so the gentlemen who
dealt with the tin. hares and the Shadier con-
tract were to make their own exemptions
and exceptions as they went along, and hear
the applications in private. No wonder
some people are annoyed with the Governor.
The tables have been turned on the Reds
of the A.R.U. A few weeks ago they in-
solently declared that railwaymen belonging
to anti-Communist organisations would have
to join their concern and pay tribute to the
Red Internationale or accept the sack—Mr.
McGirr had said so. Now McGirr is out,
and the A.R.U. is in danger of being de-
registered if it persists in being linked up
with Moscow.
There is talk in the A.R.U. of a strike
against the Federal law dealing with revolu-
tionaries. It would be a pity to begin call-
ing this business by a wrong name. There
is no such thing as a strike against a Federal
There may, of course, be a rebellion.
The difference between a strike and a rebel-
lion is that a rebel is liable to be shot.
i , or B ian of the Queens-
land Public Service Association, boasts that
“the Denham Gov-
ernment was annihi-
lated by the public-
service vote,” and
that the Moore Gov-
ernment will be set-
tled by the same
agency. The lions of
the N.S.W. public-
service organisations
roared just like that
in October, 1930, but
they are strangely
silent now. Not only
did Lang fail to re-
store 1929 salary
rates, as he promised,
but he couldn’t pay
at all last August.
The Commonwealth
came to his rescue
then, but will never
do it again, nor will
the banks ever again
carry the defaulter
and despoiler. And,
as his expenditure
for nine months of
1931-32 exceeded
hi s revenue by
£9,704,700, he would
soon reach the end of
his resources. It
would be dreadful if
the Queensland pub-
lic servants had a
Black Thursday, too.
A. A. Alam, a Langster M.L.,C. of the
1925 vintage, voted for the Robbery of Mort-
gagees Bill on May 12. He has now dis-
covered that it was. “the most calamitous
bill ever introduced in an Australian legis-
lature,” and that “Bang's return to power
would be an unparalleled disaster —practi-
cally every enterprise would be ruined.”
Alam is no great loss to the Langsters; but
his sudden revolt is significant. He weak-
ened on Lang before Lang was licked in
1927. A man with big country interests, he
has his finger on the pulse of the country
elector, and he hates to be on the losing side.
Forty years ago 10 Vic. Ministers divided
£15,500 p.a.—of course, they had to attend
to departments since federalised. Now eight
cut up £7669 p.a.; Argyle’s share will be
£1216. When the Whip and the honoraries
have been recompensed the pay will be modest
enough. Perhaps H. E. Cohen and Manifold
■—like Donald Maclcinnon, when he was
Assistant Minister for Lands to Lawson, and
W. L. Baillieu, when he led for several
Ministries in the Upper House—will decline
to take allowances from the Cabineteers.
Newcastle may furnish one of the sur-
prises of the N. S. Wales election. The
U.A.P. has an excellent candidate in Mayor
Parker and Federal Labor another in Hughie
Sutherland; and the Federal constituency of
Newcastle showed five months ago that it
had no use for the Lang plan. Connolly, the
State member, is a bitter Lang-planner, and
in his bitterness has produced the impres-
sion that he regards the plan as a good way
of getting home on Britain. Newcastle is
normally Labor, but —-as it made plain dur-
ing the war and during the visit of the
Prince of Wales—it has never been anti-
British.
Stevens, of N. S. Wales, doesn’t improve
his policy by dragging inflation into it. He
proposes, allegedly for the benefit of the
primary producer, that exchange shall be
either raised still further or propped up.
It may be that exchange ought to be the
present 125; maybe it ought to be higher.
The market, if left to itself, would soon
decide. To artificially fix a rate higher than
a free market is prepared to give is to
practise that very inflation to which
Stevens’s party is supposed to be entirely
opposed.
One Labor head likely to fall into the
basket in Queensland next week is that of
Charlie Collins, for 17 years member for
Bowen. The readjustment of boundaries has
cut out the Mt. Coolon mining vote, strongly
Labor, while the once-important wharf-labor
block has dwindled with the falling off
of coastal shipping. In 1929 T. G. Mann,
a Proserpine sugar farmer, ran Collins to
189 votes. The sugar-farming district of
Ayr is now included in Bowen and N.Q.
sugar men are emphaticaly not Labor stal-
warts. Collins achieved a fleeting fame in
1923. He was for 20 minutes leader of the
Labor party when Theodore resigned over
the 44-hour week question.
The Stevens-Bruxner Government has
stopped the fruit-machine business, and is
going to have it probed by a Royal Commis-
sion. It has also retired Goode, the Chief
Transport Commissioner, for a month pend-
ing the appointment of a tribunal to con-
sider the circumstances which led to his
being dismissed from the Railway Depart-
ment. The tin-hare and Garden-New Guard
aifairs are likewise to be investigated. Four
Royal Commissions is an unusual number,
but so many unusual things have been done
these last 18 months that it is doubtful if
even four will be sufficient.
"Like Lang in 1930, Forgan Smith, lender of the Queensland Lahor
Opposition, promises big local borrowing (regardless of tho Loan Council).
relief work at- award rates, restorntion of the 44-hour week and sops to public-
servants. And, like Lang', lie denounces Hie Premiers’ plan.”
FORGAN SMITH : " This is the shop to coma to, lady — we’re govong
the stuff away. Positively no connection with the firm
next door."
Lang’s affection for the worker, even the
worker on the poorest pay, is shown by this
comparison of what the man on £4 a week in
the several States has paid in unemployed-
relief tax in the past 12 months: —-
N. S. Wales . . . . £lO 8 0
Victoria .. .. 4 6 8
Queensland .. .. 5 4 0
S. Australia .. .. Nil
Westralia .. .. Nil
Tasmania .. .. 3 9 4
Bavin collected £2 12s. a year from the
£4-a-week man, and confessed he was
ashamed to do it. There is not the smallest
sign that Lang has felt any shame about
collecting four times as much.
Blackburn, M.L.A,., was rel-elected for
Clifton Hill, but had to depend upon the
preferences of an Independent who was for
the Premiers’ plan. Moaning at the declara-
tion of the poll, he said, “We have seen the
party we struggled for 50 years to build shat-
tered in a day.” True, and Blackburn
helped to shatter it by shouting “I take 6ff
my hat to Mr. Lang.” Still blind, he now
blithers that “every man who is a democrat
at heart must rally to Mr. Lang,” and that
“if the steps taken to dismiss Mr. Lang are
tolerated, Victoria”- —yes, Victpria ! —“may
be reduced to the status of a Crown colony.”
An obvious weakness of the Lang “plan,”
which Scullin describes as “the old hobo idea
of not paying one’s debts,” is that it can be
imitated ; and imitated it was. Since honesty
was restored by Stevens and Bruxner, the
taxgatherers have received considerable sums
from _ citizens who said, in effect, “If Lang
is Right in not paying his creditors, we’ll
be Right if we don’t pay Lang”—and they
didn’t. Another effect of the “plan” has
been to make the “Labor Daily” mistrustful,
as witness this warning to Lang-plaii candi-
dates and organisers:—
No Job Printing or Advertisements from Candi-
dates relating to the State Elections will be received
unless accompanied by cash.
No New Accounts will be opened.
Under no circumstances will ’phoned advertise-
ments be inserted.
It might be expressed in fewer words:
“Notice to Lang-planners—This Lang-plan
paper is not going to be Lang-planned.”
When he is carefully measured up Lang
wasn’t a lonesome episode, but a result.
Britain, Canada and the U.S.A. emerged
from the war with the remark, “Thank the
Lord, we no longer have the war to pay for,
so we can wipe off some of our war debt.”
Australia emerged with the remark, “Thank
the Lord, we no longer have the war to
absorb our annual loans, so we can do a
bigger bust at building unprofitable railways
and roads and sundries.” Its States accumu-
lated £302,000,000 of new debt in the 10
years 1920-30 inclusive. Most of the
money was spent on unprofitable works, and
£142,000,000 of it was borrowed from people
overseas, interest being more than doubled,
bo when Lang began to preach default he
got an unexpectedly good hearing. And a
number of respectable people who had justi-
fied the big foreign loans by lies about the
splendid security to be found in our won-
derful natural resources were among the
causes of Lang.
Theodore is blamed for the appointment
of one Macpherson, writer of an abject
letter to a lied ruffian in Russia which
came to light somehow, to the secretaryship
of the Federal A.L.P. organisation in N. S.
Wales. Macpherson repaid his patron by
resigning the day before nominations closed
in an effort to dish the people who found his
salary.. In this lie failed, and Federal Labor
has gained by losing him. Theodore has
made amends by throwing himself into the
fight with tremendous energy. Lang he
describes as “a stodgy mediocrity with a
mean soul and a warped mentality,” who
"murdered the credit of the State, drove
business out of the country, undermined all
faith in Government contractual obliga-
tions, had his revenues garnisheed, and, as
a fitting finale, destroyed his own Govern-
ment.” And Theo. ought to be a good judge.
McCormack was a shrewd campaigner,
and Theodore was shrewder. Forgan Smith,
by comparison, is clumsy. He attacked the
Government for establishing the abattoirs
near Brisbane, which, through a State con-
cern, are run by an independent board.
Moore tartly replied that the project had
been recommended to the country by a Royal
Commission appointed by the McCormack
Government, of which Forgan Smith was a
member, and that its recommendation was
warmly endorsed by McCormack in his
policy speech three years ago. Forgan Smith
forgets a lot of things, but he ought to have
remembered that.
A preliminary .survey:—•
There were 55 Langsters in the last Leg. Assembly,
so the parties which reject Sovietism and stand for
Australia will need to hold all their present seats
and gain at least 12. It is not nearly as tough a
contract as it looks. Ryde, Dulwich Hill, North
Sydney, Bondi, Drummoyne, Randwick, Waverley
and other Sydney suburbs in which middle-class
people predominate were wrested from Stevens’s
party by the unfulfilled promises of unlimited loans,
work for all and restoration of 1929 public-service
pay. They suffered severely when Lang burst the
Savings Bank, and are particularly endangered by
his Robbery of Mortgagees Bill; so they are ail
returning to their own allegiance. Parramatta also
elected a “Labor” member for the first time, and
will not return him; Parramatta’s especial grievance
is the ban on motor-lorries and -’buses, which had
given the old place a new lease of life. Country
electors swallowed the bait of guaranteed prices,
the wheat-farmers being assured that “Labor” would
see that they got 7s. fid. a bushel. Even so, the
Langsters in Ashbumham, Barwon, Murray and
Young failed of a majority on the first count. These
seats will be recaptured, and Castlereagh, Dubbo
and Namoi along with them, by a capital lot of
Cookies. Orange and Albury are also about to take
a long farewell of their Labor members, and the
chances of Flannery (Murrumbidgee), Dunn (Mudgee)
and Hoad (Cootamundra) have never looked worse.
The silliest Trades Hall stunt of the sea-
son was the Lang-bust stunt, the idea being
to present Lang as another Lenin. It was
hoped that a multitude of mugs would pay
two bob for the. busts ; they are now offered
for sixpence, with few takers. One of the
unsolds was carried into the Senate the other
day by James Patrick Dunn, who has given
“Six hundred busts of Lang have been made.
Great difficulty has been found in disposing of them.”
“Mr. Lang has lent £13,000 at 5 p.c. to the
‘Labor Daily.’”
Well, after the elections, three of them
might come in handy.
himself the name of Digger. Tas. Senator
Hays put a dunce’s cap on it, and Johnston,
from Westralia, protested in his dry way
that “if every member brought his joss here
to worship the place would soon be in an
objectionable condition.” There were no
purchasers at any price, and the rubbish
was presently removed.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Strict Veg.” : Russell-street recently got
a night call from an agitated resident of
Heidelberg, who stated that she had quitted
her premises in favor of a gang of burglars.
THE RECEPTIVE MIND.
“If ever I marry it shall be for the man’s goodness.”
“Well, dear, I think I shall also take his gilt into account.”
The motor patrol found the owner and a
number of neighbors blockading a house
wrapped in silence Drawing their revol-
vers the policemen entered the domicile. The
tirst’ thing they saw was a suitcase which
had been spilled off a shelf in the passage,
Turning a corner they were .confronted by
two flaming eyes whose height from the
"round .suggested that their possessor stood
St least seven feet in his stockings. To the
command to put his hands up the desperado
made 110 response, for reasons which became
obvious when the light was switched on.
The housebreaker was a ’possum.
* =•: =:= *
“Vectis”: Tell “Cheviot” (B. 25/5/’32)
that King George knew r long ago that Ber-
wick-on-Tweed has never made peace with
Russia. The fact was pointed out to him
at a Buckingham Palace garden-party in
1928 bv a cleric from Berwick. “H'a, bad
staff work!” boomed his Majesty in a near-
quarter-deck voice: “bad staff work!”
* * * *
“11.5.” : The depresh, a ruinously expen-
sive and uncomfortable tramway system,
Dang’s Transport Act, which recently placed
4000 ’bus employees on the dole, and con-
crete speedways have combined to put the
push-bike on the map of Sydney once more.
It would have happened long ago but for
the fact that thousands have a snobbish
objection to biking to work. Since Lang
took over IS months ago the typists and
younger black-coat toilers who are lucky
enough to be in jobs have had to swallow
their pride and economise on the lines of
their opposite numbers in European countries,
Sydney has an ideal biking climate during
most of the year, being dry (when it doesn’t
rain in torrents) and temperate (when it
isn’t as hot as Colombo), and the Parra-
matta-road and some of those in North
Sydney that connect with the Bridge are
equal to anything of the sort in England
itself. So 10 times as many bikes are being
sold as changed hands a year ago; like-
wise 10 times as many are being stolen,
No fewer than 700 have been pinched since
the beginning of the year, and the howls, of
the dispossessed have grown so deafening
that Commissioner Childs has detailed a
special squad to make investigations.
“Lao-dah”: A French arch-
bishop has distinguished himself
by climbing 120 feet and placing
a golden cross on the top of a
cathedral. Melbourne’s Arch-
bishop Head did a somewhat simi-
lar feat when he was hoisted up
in a small cage to the pinnacle of
the spire of St. Paul’s to bless
the .new addition. I have for-
gotten the learned name for the
morbid condition which visits a
person looking down from a high
place and wanting to throw him-
self over, but numerous people
have unnecessarily avoided tast-
ing the delights of flying because
they suffered from the complaint.
Actually pilots who are unable
to approach the edge of a 50-foot
cliff find that they can look down
on the flying globe 15,000 feet
below them without the least tre-
pidation ; for some occult reason,
if there is no link but the in-
visible ether between you and
the earth, the phobia does not
attack you. There is a Melbourne
artist who is subject to attacks
of both claustrophobia (feat o(
closed spaces) and agoraphobia
(fear of open spaces) at one and
the same time. As he does his
painting from a caravan he com-
promises by sitting in the door-
way of the vehicle when the
attack is upon him.
“10-2-1” : These are times when one’s fancy
turns to thoughts of political candidates.
They fall into five main categories, the
largest being composed of Hand-manglers.
The Hand-mangier does his work with an
expression of dog-like affection in his foolish
eyes, while the writhing victim. struggles to
break loose, and at the same time preserve
his dignity. Hand-mangling causes more
Laborites to vote anti-Labor (and vice versa)
than any amount of propaganda. The Mum-
mer (who is often a Hand-crippler as well)
practises oratory on those he wants to im-
press. Sometimes he is after votes, but often
it is simply a moron form of vanity. Thou-
sands have had speeches bellowed at them in
streets while suffering from colds or hurry-
ing to keep appointments, and even at pri-
vate parties, with the result that they have
started working for their persecutor’s oppo-
nent. The Platitudinarian (often a Hand-
mangier and almost always a Mummer)
never uses plain English where lie can drag
in some mouldy old quotation—which inci-
dentally, he usually gets wrong, lie doesn t
say Brown will probably be beaten ; he says,
“The writing is.on the wall; the die is cast;
the end, of which no man knoweth to the
contrary, is at hand; Mcne, Mene, iekel,
Upharsin ! ” The Anti-Empire man used to
be an Insh-Austrahan befoie the h iee State
arrived; now he is more liable to be a fecot.
with a pro-Moscow complex. rle never
dreams of settling in Russia, any more than
our Sinn Feiners did of settling 111 Erin,
being linked to the land of his adoption, in
nine cases out of ten, by the golden bonds ot
a soft Trades Hall job. The Empire man
is the most innocuous of the lot; not that
he is any less annoying when encountered,
but he rarely gets his head up except at
Empire Day functions and the like. The dis-
tinguisbing’ mark of 9o per cent, of political
Empire men is that they have never fought
for the Empire except in safe transport or
back-area jobs. Many are Hancl-manglers,
Mummers or Platitudinarians, and a few are
all three Practically all candidates are, of
course,^ Back-slappers and Shoulder-maulers,
.„ ~ , ,T, . ~ ,
F.I.A.T. : The bag of the Amalgamated
Society of Motor-hogs in and around Sydney
in a recent week compiised four hit-and-run
smashes, (two. deaths) ; one smash (with
death) in \\hich. the smasher did what he
could for the victim . and 11 smashes m
which cars were wrecked and some of the
occupants badly hurt In the days of liorse-
transport a man who drove at a canter,
much less a gallop, on a frequented .highway
was automatically summoned. His horse
was deemed to be out of hand,” and so-he
was deemed to be driving to the public
danger. j-0 do the old-time-driver justice
he rarely offended; not that he was afraid
of a fine, but because furious driving or
riding was unsportsmanlike. There is no
convention of the sort among motorists;
and, consequently, some drive in hand and
some don’t. The N. S. Wales police issue
summonses for scores of trivial offences, but
I have yet to hear of anybody being pro-
ceeded against for dangerous driving till his
methods have resulted in a smash. If the
AT THE UNEMPLOYED SETTLEMENT.
NED: “How’s your vegetable garden going, Bill?”
BILL: “Good! We ate it yestidday for dinner.”
Law weren’t a congenital ass it would tackle
these public menaces at once and punish
them, not by fines, to which most motorists
are indifferent, but by the suspension of
driving licenses. Nothing but the pos-
sibility of being warned off the roads for
months, years or life, as the case may be, is
going to bring down the present mortality
figures.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Spurious coins have become
so plentiful in Sydney that at least three
lots of people have turned a really honest
penny by manufacturing and selling to shop-
keepers gadgets that detect the imitations.
Putting the coins into circulation is a simple
matter. The bogus silver is sold to dishonest
traders, a “pound’s-worth” for 10 shillings,
and the latter’s risk is trifling; if a small
quantity of counterfeit coinage is found in
cash registers or tills, the plea that they
have themselves been taken in is hard to dis-
prove. And it is easy to ring-in a bad florin
or so when giving change. Probably the
genius who faked sixpenny pieces has done
the best of all the coiners. Since the begin-
ning of July last year, nine batches of men
have been arrested on coining charges, and
the counterfeit stream keeps flowing on.
“C.M.”: Before long the Otago, Joseph
Conrad’s first command and the pride of
his eye, will be scrap-iron. She lies to-day
at Hobart, where she has been in use for
some years as a Derwent coal-hulk, and
now she has outlived even that serviccable-
ness. Built in 1869 in Glasgow for the
Adelaide owners, Henry Simpson and Sons,
the Otago traded till the late ’eighties
between Bangkok, Mauritius and Melbourne.
Her skipper dying suddenly at Bangkok,
Conrad, then second mate on an Eastern
trader, was appointed to take her to Mel-
bourne, and in “The Shadow Line” and
elsewhere he describes the joy he took in
her fine lines and beautiful body ; “an Arab
steed,” he called her, “in a string of cart-
horses.”
* * * *
“Woldsman” : Home-brewing has had a bit
of a vogue in Australia since the depression
arrived In England it has been revived on
such a scale that there has been a big fall
in excise revenue.
In other days it
was the rule in
many parts, of the
country; in. tne
Yorkshire di s trict
where I used to lie
every farm had its
own brewhouse, and
so did more preten-
tious establishments
—even the rectory.
But when I knew
the place all these
were closed and cob-
webbed. Small
wonder either, foi
the local ales from
Doncaster or Tad-
caster were so good
and cheap as to
make the home-
made stuff hardly
worth while.
“M. de Paris”:
As an expert I was
annoyed at a car-
toon in a Sydney
paper depicting a
headsman waiting
by the block for his
patient. The limner
made the invariable
mistake with his
block; he showed
on the top of it a
deep groove extend-
ing from one side to
the other. It seems
unnecessary to
point out that when
the person prepared
himself for the operation only half his neck
from the spine forward . would be exposed,
making artistic decapitation impossible. The
block used in my profession has a flat top.
save for one side where a small cup-shaped
depression lias been carved out. When the
head is placed in position the cup receives
the chin, and the neck lies straight oh the
rest of the apparatus.
“Jeames”: I don t wonder the Victorian
farmer-candidate referred to by “M.G.S.
(B. 25/5/’32) lost votes through being
classed as a _ “gentleman” on his nomination
paper. It is one of the words that have
lost their meaning. A gentleman originally
meant one entitled by birth to “bear arms,”
irrespective of character or wealth, or a mili-
tary or naval officer, or a member of certain
professions. Nowadays it is insulting lan-
guage to call a garbage-collector “no gentle-
man” ; the point was decided in an Englisn
police court last year. Practically the only
people who insist on being called gentlemen
are those who palpably aren’t. “Proletarian
has met with the same fate. What picture
invades the mind’s eye when someone says
a typical proletarian is about to make his
appearance ? That of a pallid, narrow-
chested immigrant—probably from Glasgow
—with the wide, mobile mouth and embit-
tered expression of a Bolshie spell-binder.
What does the “Labor Daily” mean by the
term? An Aussie Hercules, marching head
up and breast forward to the destruction
of bowelless capitalists who lend sums of
£13,000 and upwards out at 2 p.c. over the
Lang-plan rate of interest. Yet all ‘ prole-
tarian” originally meant was a member of
the humble class that provided the State
with cannon-fodder, as distinguished from
members of the “ariariat,” who paid the
taxes that kept, the illiterate proletarians
from starving to death.
“Runa”: On a cold, drizzling afternoon
we were just about to leave the Onehunga.
wharf in the boat bound for New Plymouth,
when an elderly lady wearing white side-
curls and a scarlet velvet cloak was hustled
aboard. She removed the cloak and revealed
a white muslin frock and a skittish blue sash.
I discovered she was my cabin-mate and felt
slightly apprehensive. We had settled down
for the night when she prodded me from
the top bunk with her umbrella. ‘ Allow
me,” she said impressively, “to present you
with a small pamphlet on the single tax,
written by a friend of mine, now a journa-
list.” I accepted the gift with murmurs of
gratitude and fell asleep. A further prodding
woke me. “My dear,” said the old lady,
“it’s about my friend. I want to make it
clear to you that although he became a
journalist he remained a gentleman.”
* * * *
“Kerys”: The youthful members of our
family were discussing that proposal that
T.[?]
“Night-life’s telling on you, Marge.”
“Well, SOME body’s been telling . And I suppose you know my
husband is suing for a divorce.”
Lang, borrowing a notion from the G.-G.-
should present portion of liis_ sartorial equip-
ment to his successors (B. 25/5/M2). Seven-
teen. who affects learned expressions,
suggested that the gentleman “might pass on
his mantle to Captain de Groot. ’ thirteen
waxed scornful. “Mantle?” he asked. What
sort of mantle would Lang have to pass on,
except a gas-mantle?”
THE IMMORTAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“If the Lang party wins, Mr. Piddington, though
just on 70, will he given another seven-year appoint-
ment.”
When N. S. Wales, in years to come, decides
for the Garden Plan,
And jobs for those who have stood by Lang
are worked in the normal way,
The cheers of the union bosses will ring for
a grand old man—
For Piddo, good old Piddo, whom Labor
made Piddington J.
Macaulay’s Maoriland tourist, home-bound
from his London jaunt,
Will give the ruins of Sydney Bridge an
expert’s bored survey,
Then make for the Hall in Goulburn-street,
the proletarian haunt
Of Piddo, good old Piddo, whom Labor
made Piddington J.
The traveller’s children’s children will tra-
verse the Tasman Sea
And, eager respect and honor to Demos’s
Son to pay,
Will cry: “We want to be shown the court,
wherever it may be,
Of Piddo, good old Piddo, whom Labor
made Piddington J.”
And ever the basic-wage plug, as he sees the
eating years
Decreasing, little by little, his prospects
of work and pay,
Will fracture the Trades Hall welkin with
loyal unionist cheers
For Piddo, good old Piddo, and his eight
or nine quid a day.
N.S.W.
D.


“C. Coral”: Looking over a list of
“howlers” taken from recent Queensland
examination papers, I noticed more than
once the assertion that cattle were grown for
“mutton.” Perhaps the youngsters were
not so open to ridicule as the examiners
imagined—at any rate, after a trip through
part of the Gulf country, I should conclude
not. The customary bill of fare in those
parts was “Fried steak, cold roast beef, or
corned beef”; at one hotel it was varied by
the addition of “cutlets.” “Good!” said my
friend, “we’ll have cutlets; I haven’t tasted a
bit of mutton for an age.” “Funny!” he
remarked, when the dish appeared, “I had
an impression that cutlet looked a bit dif-
ferent, somehow.” The waitress enlightened
us. “Oh, they’re not sheep cutlets,” she
said ; “we just cut some beef into slices and
do it in breadcrumbs to make it taste a little
different.” At another stage of our journey
my friend, who is an Englishman, was in-
vited to have a bit of mutton. The hostess,
noticing an inquiring look and a slight smile
on my own features, added “Roast goat, of
course!” But goat mutton, especially young
kid, is by no means to be despised. I prefer
it to tough beef.
* * * ;J:
“Ananias II.” : Frederick Joubert Duquesne,
alleged in a recent book t 0 be the man who
sank the Hampshire and drowned Kitchener
(B 11/5/’32), is now reflecting on the folly of
speaking out of one’s turn. He has been
wanted for a long time on a charge of bomb-
ing a British merchantman in Brazilian
waters about, the time he was supposed
to have been sinking the Hampshire.
Arrested in the U.S.A. in 1918 on British
representations, and about to be extradited.
THE OLD PROBLEM.
MRS. WYANDOTTE : “But how can I be sure, big boy, that I’m the only one you’ve
ever loved.”
he managed to escape from hospital and
to keep out of the way until the book of
which he was the hero came out. Austra-
lians will be interested to hear that Duquesne
turned up in New York as a Light Horse
officer in 1917. He was active in recruit-
ing and loan campaigns until the British
checked him up and had him held for the
bombing outrage. Now he goes to Britain
for trial, and as three seamen were killed
by the bomb placed on the merchantman, his
finish, if found guilty, may be a sticky one.
* * :!•• -!-
“K. Cross” : The prejudice inspired by the
hectic reputation of Darlingliurst has been
curiously illustrated in a divorce case in
which a western grazier was respondent.
For nine years the sheepman had been satis-
fied to let his wife spend several months of
the year at Coogee, Bondi or Manly, but
when she wrote saying she had moved to
Darlingliurst he suspected the worst. He
arrived in Sydney by the first train, and set
private detectives on the job. Although they
discovered nothing to the lady’s detriment, he
took the attitude that she would not have
wanted to go to Darlingliurst if she hadn't
gone to the Devil. Vainly striving for a re-
conciliation, she sued for divorce at last and
got her decree on the ground of construc-
tive desertion. The countryman’s attitude
is understandable when that of sophisticated
city houses is considered. One concern will
not employ any person who gives a Darling-
hurst address.
“Sapte”: Since the Sultans of Turkey were
removed from their high estate little has
been heard of the practice of confining a
brother of the reigning sovereign in a fortress
to keep him quiet. However, it still lingers
in the Balkans; the other day a cable drew
attention to the mournful plight of Prince
George Karageorgevitch, sometime heir-appa-
rent to the Jugo-Slav. throne, and elder
brother of its present occupant, King Alex-
ander. George, one gathers, is locked up
for life, and he is so fearful of being pois-
oned that he eats nothing but eggs, and re-
fuses to tackle even these unless he lias seen
the hens actually laying them. The incar-
cerated prince was a wild youth in pre-war
days; his dissoluteness and excesses created
such a scandal—he was once accused of
having slain a disobedient body-servant with
his own hands—that pressure was used to
make him surrender his right of succession
to his younger brother, which he eventually
did, dropping right out of the picture till
the cable from Belgrade resurrected him the;
other day. Most people outside Jugo-Slavia,
if they hadn’t forgotten his existence alto-
gether, reckoned that he had gone to Paris
or Switzerland, whither so many Royal exiles
gravitate, and probably he is sorry he didn’t.
Writers of the Anthony Hope school may
still find material in these Balkan kingdoms
for scenes from life that challenge fiction.
“Scipio” : The pains-
taking frankness of a
party to a Sydney
divorce case, a lady,
confounded even hard-
ened habitues of the
court. She fled from
home with the co-re.,
leaving a note explain-
ing matters, according
to the conventions. She
went further, adding in
a postscript that the
kitchen calendar would
show dates ticked off,
dates on which sinful
things occurred, which
would ease the labors
of her deserted lord’s
solicitors when draw-
ing up the petition.
And yet some folk will
tell you the modern woman has no con-
sideration for other people in her make-up!
* * * X
“Nakhoda”: The cableman recently re-
lated how Einstein, the discoverer of Rela-
tivity, was taken in by a Californian medium.
A craving for tin; marvellous is common
among mathematicians and other dealers in
the exact sciences. Alfred Russel Wallace
and Sir Oliver Lodge accepted the phenomena
of frauds whose tricks are the stock-in-trade
of professional jugglers. There is an eminent
Australian mathematician who consults dead
doctors through the kindly offices of a
medium ; and a famous anatomist once told me
in perfect seriousness of an experience of a
medical friend in Malaya. A Malay came to
the medical friend with a bandage round his
wrist. He said that his hand had been
severed by a jealous husband who had caught
him climbing up the domestic house-ladder;
that he had picked up his hand and at the
first opportunity had replaced it with the
appropriate incantations. The juncture had
been perfect, but a slight inflammation had
succeeded and he wanted it treated. The
doctor felt the fingers, which were warm and
healthy looking, but when he went to remove
the bandage the Malay strenuously objected.
His curiosity aroused, the doctor ripped the
wrapping off and the hand promptly fell to
the floor. The native uttered a horrified yell,
picked up the member and bolted back to
the jungle. I asked my friend, as an anato-
mist, if he believed the story possible. He
replied gravely that it was perfectly well
authenticated.
“Wyara”: Counsel for a man 55 years
of age, charged in Brisbane with trafficking
in cocaine, made an unusual plea. He said
his client used the drug himself to alleviate
the pain from the cutting of a third set of
teeth. I question that third set, for which
there is no precedent—in Australia, at any
rate. It is probable that the man was cut-
ting a supernumerary wisdom-tooth, or that
one of the natural wisdom-teeth was appear-
ing late in life—an unusual thing; in
ordinary circumstances they are cut before
the age of 21. The magistrate was incredu-
lous, or, at least, unsympathetic; he made
it £5O or three months.
“Pawang”: U.S.A. health authorities are
contemplating legal proceedings against an
enterprising vendor of patent medicines who
has been selling a tonic described as radium
water. There are scores of quack remedies
which purport to contain radium, but their
inventors are astute enough t 0 confine their
use of the substance to the name. The new
medicine, however, contains water charged
with radium gas. A wealthy steel magnate
of Philadelphia took a course, the radium
was deposited on his bones, and at latest
advices was causing intense suffering and
slow death. Another American remedy popu-
lar in Australia is a box which is supposed
to give out electronic vibrations that oppose
the vibrations alleged to be set up by dis-
ALL IN THE DAY’S WORK.
“Oh, Mummy, look how that man bolts his food!”
“You must never be ungenerous, dear. It may be just force of habit—he may be
a riveter by trade.”
ease and reduce them to innocuousness. Its
chief merit is that what it gives out are elec-
tric currents similar to the magnetic shocks
which used to delight our grandparents. If
it really did what it is claimed to do it
■would probably blow up the patient or frizzle
him to a cinder. Even great physicists are
chary about toying with the atom. An
Adelaide professor recently claimed to have
released a tiny portion of its energy, the
whole of which would have been sufficient
to explode the entire city.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A sidelight on the possibilities
opened up to inventive minds by prohibition
in the U.S.A. was provided in a Melbourne
court the other day, when a mechanical engi-
neer was charged with drinking methylated
spirit. _ Explaining that he regarded meth.
as a mild form of medicine for internal use,
he remarked that in the States he had ex-
tracted wood alcohol from a table leg.
❖ ijs #
“Biltong”: A Ballarat police-constable,
witness in a county-court case the other
day, gave his Christian name as Red vers
Buller, whereat liis Honor, with Sherlock
Holmes-like perspicacity, presumed that the
deponent was 32 years of age and the
deponent nodded acquiescence. One of the
papers that recorded the incident essayed to
throw some further light on it by pointiug
out that Buller was the military commander
at the relief of Ladysmith (Feb., 1900). As
a matter of fact he wasn’t—Lord Dundonald,
with the 2nd Cavalry Brigade, was the first
to enter the beleaguered town; Buller
arrived later, but soon enough to make him
the popular hero and to have his name per-
petuated at christening fonts. Eight months
afterwards, however, he was on his way home
to England, superseded in the supreme com-
mand, and his job was left for Kitchener to
finish. Buller always reckoned that he had
been badly treated, and some later indiscreet
utterances on the subject involved him in
trouble with the War Office. He had his
ardent partisans, but it may be doubted if
many children were baptised with his names
after the glamor of Ladysmith had worn off.
“Cleveland”: A
good deal of the old
Australian casual-
ness still lingers in
North Queensland.
There is a Govern-
ment institution for
the reform of sin-
ners, situated some
miles out of Towns-
ville, which is known
as Stewart’s Creek.
A large farm is
maintained there tc
feed the compulsory
inmates. It has been
the duty of one of
them to tend the
cattle; every even-
ing he would ride out
into the bush and
bring the milking
cows back. The
other day neither he
nor the cows were in
evidence at lock-up.
Officials were per-
turbed, fearing an
accident. It was not
until next day, when
his saddled and
bridled steed was
found in the scrub
near a railway sta-
tion on the Western
line, that they realised they had been heart-
lessly deserted.
* * sjr *
“F.1.A.T.”: While the price of horses is
steadily rising, Sydney’s oldest motoring
business (one that had been in the game
for Over 30 years) has closed its doors, and
another has reduced its capital by £lOO,OOO.
The slump isn’t wholly to blame. The trade
has been hard hit by taxation and by the
Lang campaign in the interests of the rail-
ways and trams, and the kind of repair-
shop where the mug car-owner leaves his
’bus at its peril has also had its effect.
And for every unsound horse that was
sold a quarter of a century ago 20 dud
cars change hands to-day. Other factors
that are injuring motoring in N. S. Wales
are uncontrolled speeding (a week-end
motorist takes his life in his hands in certain
Sydney suburbs, as the newspaper casualty
lists show) ; excessive cost of petrol and
oil, and deteriorating roads, which add to
the cost of upkeep as well as to the danger.
The motoring industry should be a boon to
the Australian worker; a variegated field
of employment, and a means of relaxation
at least as cheap as the horse and sulky of
a previous generation used to' be. The way
things are going—what with penal legisla-
tion against ’buses, picnic lorries and similar
proletarian vehicles (passed by Labor Gov-
ernments to bolster up State Socialism) and
the ever-rising cost of running private cars —
motoring threatens to become a monopoly of
the rich.
* * * *
“Chook”: “The Monk” (B. 18/5/’32)
astonishes me. I have sold beds to newly-
weds, to-be-weds and those who have been
disillusioned, and in five years have only
sold two people twin beds. The others all
bought double-beds. Nor is my experience
exceptional in the Melbourne furniture trade.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: One of the quaintest printing
errors on record occurred in a recent issue
of the “Age.” In the journal’s synopsis of
contents appeared the following, under
“Woman’s Section” :
A practical fashion article discusses methods of
attaining the new mushroom silhouette
Well, woman’s figure is capable of anything,
so I turned to the Woman’s Section and
eagerly sought for the description of how the
eternal feminine could emulate the shape of
a vegetable umbrella. This is what I read:
Arrange a few mushrooms on squares of hot
buttered toast, pour on a little sauce, and put all
into the oven for the sauce to brown lightly.
Sprinkle each portion with cayenne pepper before
serving.
* * * x
“Strict Veg.”: A Melbourne captain of
industry recently underwent an operation
in a private hospital. During convalescence
he began to feel the need of some spirituous
diversion, so he had an ornate invitation
PAST HISTORY.
“He’s a fearful bore. He couldn’t talk about anything except
all the divorces his relations had been through.”
“I see—giving you the family annuls.”
for a cocktail party printed and surrepti-
tiously sent it to half a dozen cobbers, all
eminent in business. They accepted the in-
vitation with an equally ornate printed card,
and the function duly took place at the bed-
side, the conspiratorial atmosphere adding
a spice of stolen fruit to the festivity. The
hospital is run by a denomination which is
one of the strongest pillars of prohibition.
LEST OTHERS SEE US.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Oh wad some Pow’r the giftie gie us
To see oursels as others see us!” — Burns.
Ay, Bobbie, ’tis the mode to quote
These lines of yours, to sugar-coat
The pill, for him whose fault we note
Where’er it finds us;
To help us blink —pro tern. —the mote
That always blinds us.
But, Bobbie, there’s another pray’r—
Its theme for each his own affair—
Which oft must rise when none is there
To vis-a-vis us:
“Lord, as ourselves we see, forbear,
Lest others see us!”
TASMA NIA.
JOHN HENDERSON.


The Future of
Investments
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
for June, on Sale Saturday,
will discuss how the market
is likely to move.
CAN THIS THING GO ON?
Under this heading it will also
consider a scheme of currency
reform.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
m
ITTTrmr
i»irn
mm
mm mtt! mm
rmti
' >w
IMS
IBS.OOObuf ineff men
come to buy tor next year
srjs?£.?TSs
for keen values. The newest creations and novelties, the latest in
business and industrial requirements—all these will be available at
prices that repay over and over again the time spared in absence abroad.
AUTUMN FAIR COMMENCES AUGUST ~8.
Comprising SAMPLES PAIR, TEXTILES, BUILOING,
HOUSEHOLD and INDUSTRIAL EQ UH.IIENT .*
A substantial rebate is offered Australian Buyers on all travelling
expenses to Leipzig. It is worth your investigation. The • • •
Organisation will sladly supply names, addresses and full particulars
of reputable German Export Houses.
Full details gladly given by the Authorised Representatives Lars G.
Brundahl, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
Or C. N. Keppel, Box 1658, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Leipzig Trade Fair
IN THE HEART
OF BEAUTIFUL
GERMANY
The
WOOLELLA”
WORKSHIRT
The ideal shirt for. winter
wear. Albatross make
in best Grey English flannel
shirting. Two breast
pockets, with flaps to but-
ton, and liberally cut to
ensure ample roominess.
In all sizes.
Send your order
to Desk S.B.
PRICE
12/6
PIKE
brothers, ltd.,
in QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some June birthdays :
Dr. Alexander Deeper (Melb.), 84, on 3rd; W.
B. Propsting (Speck’s Leg. Council Pres.), 71, on
4th; Bishop Radford (Goulburn), 63, Major-Gen.
Kenneth Mackay, 73, and Mrs. iEneas Gunn (“We of
the Never Never’’), on sth; Major-Gen. Glasgow, 56,
Justice IngliS Clark (Speck), 50, and Arthur H. Adams,
60, on 6th; Bishop Gilbert White (late Carpentaria
and Willochra), 73, Dr. Prescott (Newington Coll.),
75, and S. L. Gardner, M.H.R. for Robertson, 48,
on 9th; Vic. Speaker Peacock, 71, on 11th; J. Lane
Mullins, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), 75, on 12th; J. H. Browse,
M.H.R. for Forrest, 61, on 16th; R. C. Bishop
Barry (Goulburn), 57, Frank Tate (Vic.’s former
Director of Education), 69, and T. L. Axford, V.C.
(W.A.), 37, on 18th; Dr. J. H. Cumpston (Director-
Gen. of Quarantine), 52, on 19th; J. M. Fowler,
ex-M.11.R. for Perth, 67, on 20th ; Major-Gen.
Coxen, 62, on 22nd; R. O. Blackwood (Vic.), 71,
on 24th; T, J. Roseby (long of Syd. Water Board),
66 on 25th; geologist Dr. Frank Stillwell (Vic.),
44’ J. Nevin Tait, 56, and Dr. Fred Watson (editor
of “Historical Records”), 54, on 27th; Dr S. S.
Cameron (for many years Vic. Director of Agncul-
ture), 66, oil 29th.
Stevens, the new Premier of N. S. Wales,
is apt to boil over whenever he speaks
of the impudence of these Trades llall para-
sites in claiming to be the only people who
are concerned about the workers. _ 1 H'/d*
not betray the tradition of the home in which
I received my training as a lad, the home of
a working man,” he said, with the only
trace of emotion he showed in his policy
speech. Stevens’s mother and father still
live at Marrickville (Sydney), in a cottage
the son bought for them. Dad was at Goodlet
and Smith’s, the timber-merchants, for over
40 years.
William Sandford, who did more than any
other man in laying the foundations of the
iron and steel industry in Australia, died at
Eastwood (Sydney) at the week-end, aged
89. He never made a great financial suc-
cess of Litligow, which he handled for -1
years; he was too much of an idealist, in
the first days of the century he looked like
getting the capital of which he had never
had enough ; when his hope of that died he
was glad to help the Commercial Bank ot
Sydney find a buyer. By good luck the
whole thing was taken over by George and
Charles Hoskins, who had made a pot of
money out of iron pipes, and _who combined
financial and technical skill. Sandford
retired to a quiet home in the _ northern
suburbs, and spent the rest of his life in
his garden.
W. A. Deacon, Queensland’s Minister for
Lands, comes of an old Darling Downs family
which has been long established in the Allora
country, where he was born. His first sight
of Parliament was in 1920, when he was
sent to Brisbane by his native electorate ot
Cunningham, which he has represented ever
since. As a Minister he has been a con-
spicuous success in a job wherein many of
his predecessors have crashed, probably be-
cause he really knows something about it.
W. A. DEACON, Q. Lands Minister.
He has done a good deal to ease the crush-
ing burdens on the primary industries of
the State, especially in the matters of ex-
tending leases and lightening rents and in-
terest charges.
When Block 14 was cut off from the
Broken Hill Prop, in 1887, John Brandon
was made secretary, and Block 10 Wpassed
on to him a year later. Both made money,
but it was Block 10 that kept
signing cheques—in ’97 it paid ei„.ht d .
of Is. each and. one of 3s. and tor
years thereabouts kept about that level.
Brandon had been one of William Knox s
young men when the B. H. Prop. staff was
formed, and he was almost the last of them
when he died a week ago.
S.A.’s Grand Old Man, Lancelot Stirling,
went into S.A. Parliament on the same day
(1881) as his brother Edward, O- C. King-
ston and .T. H. Symon. The last-named is
the only survivor.
J. L. STIRLING, for 31 years President
of the S. Aus. Leg. Council.
Among old hands of the Eastern States
Joe Carruthers (N.S.W.) comes nearest to
just-dead J. L. Stirling for length of Parlia-
mentary service. Jog was first elected to the
N.S.W. Assembly in ’B7 ; Stirling arrived in
’Bl Stirling remained in the Assembly It)
years, then went to the Council as member
for the Southern district, and has represented
it ever since—4l years ; for 31 of them he has
been President. Carruthers was in the
Assembly 21 years before going on to the
Council. Of other Australians E. H.Wit-
tenoom (W.A.) and Alec Peacock (Vic.)
get closest to them. Peacock was first elected
in ’B9, and the district that returned him
then still returns him; Wittenooms service
dates back to ’B3; but it hasn t been con-
tinuous.
Tom Skeyhill, “the blind signaller,’’ who
in the middle days of the war did a splendid
service to the damaged Digger has been
killed in the crash of his aeroplane m the
11.5. A. • it was being piloted by his secre-
tary at the time. Tom, whose eyesight
was badly damaged at Gallipoli, began
writing for The Bulletin in the war days,
and when he came home made the discovery
that he wasn’t a had platform-entertainer
either. On a commission fiom -Lin.
Bulletin he went to America, wliere
eyesight was practically restored. He found
lecture-money so good both in 1 '
Canada that he decided to make his mime
there • and for 10 years past he has been
one of the most popular lecturers on
various Chautauqua circuits. , Agail \
the backing of The Bulletin he made two
visits tn Europe, one of them into Russia,
ami his lectures on the latter country and
its problems were enormously successful.
His home town was Hamilton (1 ’ c -) ,hs
father died near Warrnambool within a day
or two of hearing of his son’s passing.
Had a 92nd birthday in Adelaide, Ivor
McGillivray, one 0 f S.A.’s first Labor- mem-
bers. He was born at Ramsay MacDonald s
Lossiemouth, and had 12 years of gold-
mining in M.L. before settling at Port Adel-
aide He entered S.A. Assembly m 1893,
and left it only over the Conscription differ-
mce boating that in 24 years of Parlta-
ment he had missed only two sittings.
Casey, of Geelong and thereabouts, is pro-
bably the linguist of the House of Reps. He
can do pretty well in five languages.
Before “hiking” became a fashion, John
Purves Wilson. LL.D., thought nothing of
striding from liis home at hew to the Mel-
bourne University ; and his. tramping helped
ir, keen him sprightly until he passed the
80th milestone. By his death Australia loses
•i great teacher who for nearly a score of
v ears was principal of the P.L.C. His text-
books on Euclid and algebra are authori-
tative Other enthusiasms were orphan
children and Shakspearean controversy.
James Drummond, Christchurch, to whom
M.L. Journalists’ Assoc, has just given a Me
member’s badge, the highest honor it can
bestow, is a native of the Ferny Isles, aged
(32. For 25 years, besides doing his ordinary
job, he has syndicated a weekly column or
nature study, and many publications stand
to his credit on his pet subjects; but nis
“lives” of Dick Seddon and pioneer parson
Sam Marsden indicate deep digging in an-
other field.
A Canterbury College (M.L.) professor
thanks whatever gods there are that the
rate of exchange is what it is. travelling
across the U.S.A. on the Southern Pacific
Railway IS months ago, the Prof, lost his
return ticket, worth £45; and, despite ex-
planations, was obliged to cut into his
already diminished funds by another £4o.
The other day he received from the co. a
letter explaining that his ticket had been
found and enclosing £45 (U.S.A. currency).
The prof, breasted the bank counter and
collected £6O.
A. J. Kirton, the new member for Morn-
ington (Vic.), is a brother of Joe, who used
to represent Ballarat West, and was an
Hon. Minister under Irvine in 1902.-03. The
members of the House whose dads were m
one House or the other before them are
Austin, Everard, Holden, Knox, Luxton,
Menzies and Wettenhall.
Apart from her undoubted qualifications
for the place on the Broadcasting Commis-
sion which she has secured, Mrs. Couchman,
president of the A.W.N.L., will find the fee
of £3OO p.a. useful. When her husband
Claude, a professional officer of the Vic.
Public Works Department, died suddenly
last, year—just as he and she were, about
to begin an interstate holiday trip—she
became entitled to £3 a week superannua-
tion. She is a B.A. of W.A. Uni. and a
registered teacher.
Breezy Bill Everard, who has held Evelyn
for 15 years, will make a strong bid for the
chairmanship of committees when the Vic.
Leg. Assembly meets on June 14. He is
a son of John Everard, who was a member
of the first House under responsible govern-
ment.
Acting-Governor Irvine will open the
first session of Vic.’s 31st Parliament on
June 14. Thirty years ago, on June 10, ne
himself took office as Premier; the man he
dispossessed, Alec Peacock, he will now
find in the Speaker’s chair. But the other
old hands will be gone.
Dr. Alex. Leeper’s friends are not likely
to forget his birthday, for it falls on the
same day as that of George V. When the
present king was born. Dr. Deeper was a
17-year-old student in Dublin, where he was
born, which makes him 84 on Friday. For
42 years he was warden of Trinity College,
Melbourne, and a list of the degrees he has
collected and the positions he has held in
his long life would make the head of the
average man reel. Yet a Btjixetin man who
was in touch with him recently got the
impression that nowadays his proudest
thoughts are that he produced the first Latin
play and the first Greek tragedy in Victoria,
and is the only man, he believes, to . stage a
Dr. LEEPER, one of the Grand Old Men
of Vic. Education.
play of Robert Browning’s outside England
and America. The Browning play was
“Strafford,” and, after nearly 40 years. Dr.
Beeper still feels a glow of pleasure at its
success. He is also wrapped up in his two
sons by his first marriage—his wife was a
daughter of George Wigram Allen, one-time
NS W Speaker—who are in the British
Foreign Office. These days the veteran takes
things very quietly in his South Yarra home.
P. E. Coleman, who has the good wishes
of more than N. S. Wales in his fight against
Lang at Auburn, lias climbed fairly high
from humble beginnings. When barely five
he was left an orphan, and had to face the
world much so'oner than most boys —-he had
worked his passage to and from Maonland
P. E. COLEM-AN, who is making Lang's
supporters uneasy in Auburn.
before he was 15. He next got a job in
the Sydney office of the Seamen’s Union,
later giving it up, at 24, to organise the
Clerical Workers’ Union, of which he was
for many years secretary. He served with
the A.I.F. during the war, and the illness
he contracted while abroad still lingers. Cole-
man entered the Federal Parliament in 1922
as member for Reid, a new division created
by a redistribution of seats. His majority
was increased from about 3000 in 1922 to
33,000 in 1929. Last December, however,
he lost his seat to Gander, the Lang-plan
billiard-marker, who holds it on the under-
standing that he is to get out of it the
moment his boss wants it. While a M.H.R.
Coleman was a member of both the Public
Works and Public Accounts committees, and
in 1930 went to Geneva as delegate to the
International Labor Conference. While
abroad he investigated conditions at Aus-
tralia Ilouse, and his report brought about
many much-needed reforms. The Federal
Labor party could not have nominated a
stronger candidate against Lang. The
Auburn seat is in Coleman’s old Federal dis-
trict, and he has a large following in the
district, is a plucky fighter, and had Ins
plans for the capture of the seat laid down
months ago. t
Something of a local A 1 Capone was Vasi-
lios Leonidas, who has died in N. Queens-
land. Police activity in Innisfail had re-
duced him to comparative poverty at the end,
but at one time he was a sort of king
amongst the Dago toughs, and his complicity
in many criminal affairs was suspected.
Gone t 0 his last account, at 79, Dick
Mason, familiar figure on the Maoriland
turf for 60 years, and well-known to
Australia as trainer of Gloaming and other
fast performers. Mason, born in Welling-
ton (M.L.), lived all his life among horses.
His first job was with a vet. who owned
a racing string, and lie had ridden several
winners before he was 18. At that age lie
became first horseman to Harry Redwood,
the “Father of the Turf” in M.L. In the
six remaining years of his career as a
jockey Mason won dozens of races-—at the
Canterbury Autumn meeting in 18 <4 he
won every race on the programme! At
the age of 24 he gave up silk and became
trainer for G. G. Stead. Under that bannei
he prepared Noctuiform, who won the Aus-
tralian Derby in record time in 1905.
When Stead 'died in 1908 Mason went to
G-. T). Greenwood, who' wouldn t undertake
racing unless and until he could have
Mason’s services. In that stable Mason s
greatest successes were scored with the
Australian-bred Gloaming and Biplane.
Mason loved Gloaming, and survived the
great horse by less than a week. All m
all Greenwood’s horses won close on
£2OO 000 under Mason’s management, lne
stable is now bossed by P. V. Mason, Dicks
son. _
\s Premier of Vic. E. J. Hogan was
allotted £1551 p.a., less financial emergency
deduction of 24 p-c., which made it £ll <9
net His pay now as member for Warren-
heip is £447. Had he been a metropolitan
member he would have had to do with £402
10s From 1926 Hogan was accustomed to get
something additional; the Opposition leader s
allowance is £2OO p.a. That has now been
reduced to £162 and will go to Tunneclifte,
assuming that he will be elected Opposition
leader.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Ltd.
This energetic pioneer of the bond-selling
method of financing forestry ventures is
the largest and most successful concern of
its kind in Australasia. For a while specu-
lation in these bonds became so popular that
sales extended to England, Africa and
Southern Asia. At the end of its first seven
years (March 31, 1930) the co.’s net sales
of this class of paper aggregated £3,454,922
(face value), and it had planted 117,950
acres with trees on behalf of the owners
of the bonds, as the following table shows:
Total Total
March, Bonds Sold. Amount. Area Planted.
1927*. 86,353 £2,158,900 54J655 acres.
1928.. 101,602 2,584,309 82,579 „
1929.. 117,531 3,147,129 107,088 „
1930.. 125,630 3,454,922 117,950
1931.. ? ? 120,394 „
1932.. V ? 132,096 „
The number of bonds sold and the amount
have not been mentioned in the report for
the last couple of years. There was an
increase of 11,702 acres in the area planted
during the 12 months to March 31 last as
against 2444 for the previous year. But much
of last year’s planting was in respect of the
previous year’s sales; planting is done
during the winter months only.
During the year the balance of Smith,
Wylie and Co.’s brokerage business was
taken over. Still, the contraction in the
face value of bonds sold, plus sundry in-
come, including 0 p.c. of the maintenance
trust fund, was £25,616, as against a slip of
£9337 and £242,954 in the two preceding
terms:—
Land and
Develop- Mainten- Dividend
March, Sales, etc. meet. ante. Profit.* 8 p.c.
1929.. £563,203 £388,789 £156,361 £18,050 £13,668
1930.. 320,249 165,606 135,709 18,874 14,772
1931.. 173,4.34 121,637 15,521 15,537
1932.. 285,296 240A01 39,195 15,537
-Subject, to taxation.
The expenditure on land, development and
maintenance, which includes bond-selling
costs,_ was £48,990 lighter. Thus there was
a spring of £23,374 in the declared net pro-
fit, of which £15,000 as against £4OOO
in the previous year was set aside for
taxation; so the div. was kept at 8 p.c.
Apart from all this, £15,000 w r as taken from
somewhere in order to wipe goodwill out
of the sheet. The actual profit depends very
largely upon whether the reserve for plant-
ing and maintenance proves to be more or
less than is necessary. It was drawn upon
for £50,571 net during the last term, re-
ducing the figure to £1,055,444 at the end
of March. Free reserves then totalled
£26,511.
Balance-sheet figures compare as follows:
1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. .. £191,266 £196,813 £197,536
Sundry creditors .. 91,361 93,145 72,523
Land 33,343 131,547 118,646
Plant, etc 21,686 26,921 24,523
Investments .. .. 58,547 46,085 151,924
Bondholders’ balances.. 751,987 605,846 432,665
Other book debts . . 13,056 44,005 25,240
Maintenance reserves .. 455,952 524,154 589,479
Cash .. .. .. 11,695 25,268 9,537
Thus to reduce the outside debt by £20,622.
add £105,839 to investments and £65,325
to the maintenance trust fund the book
value of bondholders’ balances w r as reduced
by £173,181 net, other book debts by
£18,765, and cash was drawn upon for
£15,731. Incidentally, it is proposed to dis-
tribute amongst shareholders, as a bonus,
some of the unsold planted areas.
The reserve fund, which belongs to the
co., is deposited with the trustee for the bond-
holders as a guarantee that the co. will do
its job. The trustee reports that the co.
has satisfactorily carried out its obligations
to date, and its ability to continue to do
so is certified by the auditors to the trustee.
During the year arrangements were made
with the trustee for bondholders whereby
the co. is to become their selling agent and
manager for the realisation of their forests.
The rate of commission mentioned a few
months ago was 1J p.c. of gross sales for
cash; 2-| p.c. of gross sales on any other
basis. Bondholders, by the way, have been
asked to transfer the freehold of their areas
to the trustee for realisation purposes.
Something of the sort is necessary if funds
to finance the search for markets and to
convert the forests into saleable products
are to be obtained without difficulty.
Exactly what is to be done with the forests
has not been definitely decided yet. A
realisation committee, on which both bond-
holders and the co. are represented, is in-
quiring into “the widest possible range of
utilities derivable from the forests, cost of
production of each, and probable markets.”
At the end of the maintenance period (20
years, or any earlier date at which bond-
holders decide to sell) the co. has agreed
to advance to the trustee for bondholders
the balance of the maintenance trust fund,
or so much of it as may be required, on
loan “properly secured” for the purpose of
preparing to market the forests. Advances
may be made for the same purpose during
the maintenance period. Also, the co. has
agreed to invest such portion of the fund as
may be mutually agreed upon in any under-
taking for the realisation of the forests.
At the moment the lumber trade all over
the world is feeling sick, like most other
industries. But it is Too early yet to
form any worth-while idea how bondholders
are likely to come out of the venture. Recent
developments suggest that original prospec-
tus estimates were no more than a rough
guess.
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.)
, Bonus Added
Pref. Ord. to to Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1922.. 12j003 1509 3679 5,470 7 0 ,
Provident Fund, £914 .. j 431 27 > 208
1923.. 25,442 2624 3707 9,978 \ „„
Provident Fund, £3047 .. j 6086 33)294
1924. . 21,276 3004 3756 10,149 7 „ 99fi
Provident Fund, £2140 .. J 2226 35,520
1925.. 22,828 3425 5085 8,610 7 „ a
Provident Fund, £1262 .. f 4446 39,966
1926.. 26,986 3425 7665 6,798 )
Provident Fund, £1513 .. t ' oSo 4 ' )i>! ’ l
All Shares.
1927.. 28,186 8 p.c. = 14,000 7874 ( , P7l
Provident Fund, £1641 .. j 4twl ° 2,222
1928. . 29,229 8 p.c. = 14,000 8490 7 K 7 , 7n
Provident Fund, £1791 .. \ 4948 5<,1i0
1929.. 29,207 8 p.c. = 14,389 7179 7 o OQ , fil
Written off, £3645 j 0J94 61 > 164
1930.. 6,019 Nil Nil l - in 7
Provident Fund, £612 .. j u4U '
1931.. 10,796 3 p.c. = 6,969 Nil \ SQn
Provident Fund, £5OB .. j 3319 09)890
1932.. 11,869 3 p.c. = 6,969 2317 7 „ QIQ
Provident Fund, £524 .. ) ’
For the 16 years to the close of accounts
in 1921 shareholders averaged 7.2 p.c. Dur-
ing the next eight the business expanded
rapidly, and a steady 8 p.c. was paid ; clients,
who are mostly shareholders, got £64,566 in
rebates, £12,298 was sent to the staff fund
and £34,387 to reserves. Then prices col-
lapsed and taxation and the need to provide
largely for contingencies bit deeply into
takings, and shareholders went hungry for
the year to March 31, 1930. But the
figures improved, and divs. have been
resumed on a 3 p.c. basis. The spring
in exchange and the depreciation of
sterling provided mucli-ncedcd relief to
growers, who recently got a little further
benefit from reduction of interest charges:
also rebates of wooLselling commissions were
restored at the old rate (20 p.c.) during the
last term.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts 87,246 bales were received,
or 10,859 more than for the previous year.
Sales (78,112) were 15,014 bales lighter, due
to the heavy carry-over in 1930. The aver-
age price was £ll 4s. 2d. (Australian) for
the 10 months to the end of April as against
£ll 2s. 10d., £l3 ss. 9d. and £2l 10s. lid.
for the three preceding seasons. New
branches were opened at West Wyalong,
where the business of C. E. Wallder was
taken over, and at Narrandera; hence there
was “marked expansion of the co.’s livestock
activities,” which now include the sale of
store and stud stock. Still, gross earnings
(£72,822) fell away £7477, making the slip
£50,183 over the last three years. But
exes. (£61,477) were got back £8534, leaving
the net result at 5.3 p.c. on capital as
against 4.6, 2.4, 12.2, 11.8, 11.6 and 14 p.c.
back to 1926.
Since 1924 the co. has bought stock-resting
depots at Dubbo and Wallangarra, a one-
tliird interest in a Western stock-and-station
business, besides Wallder’s, and built itself
a fine new woolstore. To do all this and
further assist clients an extra £138,443 of
capital was gathered, and the co. leant heav-
ily on outsiders: —
1924. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Capital .. £93,871 £232,314 £232,314 £232,314
Liabilities .. 169,790 206,222 157,575 101,958
Buildings, etc. 211,635 257,308 255,753 255,872
Stocks.. .. 2,170 1,340 987 8,829
Book debts . . 90,553 ]
Cash and public !■ 271,885 237,124 178,113
securities .. 15,753 j
Thus, during the last couple of years, the
debt has been worked down as advances have
been repaid. Last year debtors’ balances,
etc., were reduced £59,011, and £55,617 was
lopped off the amount coming to creditors,
which includes provision for taxation, etc.
The more or less liquid surplus (£84,984, in-
cluding stocks) improved £4448 during the
twelvemonth. To what extent, if any,
advances have been made on broad acres is
not visible in the sheet.
At the moment the outlook is for another
good season, but prices lack strength. For
the pound shares 9s. is offered on the market.
The return at that price is 6.6 p.c. on a
3 p.c. div. basis. The backing is 265. 2d.
in net tangibles.
Automobile Finance Co. (Melb.)
To Re- De-
Profit. Dividends. serves, fieit.
£ £ £
1924.. 244 Nil 244 4,964
Added preliminary exes., £7594.. 12,558
1925*. 2,679 Nil 2679 9,879
Forfeited shares, £lO .. .. 9,869
Pref. Ord. £
1926.. 14,565 8 p.c. 10 p.c. = 9,746 4819 5,050
1927.. 19,651 8 „ 8 „ ~ 13,131 6520 1,470
1928.. 20,616 8 ~ 8 ~ ~13,480 7136 8,606
1929.. 18,731 8 „ 8 „ ~13,480 5251 13,857
1930.. 7,596 8 „ 4 „ ~ 7,728 13,725
Transferred to bad debts reserve,
£B5OO 5,225
1931.. 854 8 p.c. Nil 1,976 4,103
*l3 months.
With the scattering of loan funds a crop of
these finance cos. sprang up, and there
was a scramble for paper, much of which
has turned out not to be worth 20s. in the
£. This one made an unpromising start eight
years ago. But there were changes, plans
were recast, business was extended to other
States on a commission basis, and a subsi-
diary, General Investment and Discount
Pty., Ltd., in which the parent owns all
the £25,000 of share capital, was formed
to handle t.-p. and other business apart
from automobiles.
For the five years to the close of accounts
in 1930 the ords. averaged 7.6 p.c. But with
the arrival of hard times bad debts have
exceeded expectation. This and other things,
including the need to provide largely for
further contingencies, have chewed deeply
into the figures. After openly striking
off £2271 for bad debts, and allowing for
unaccrued interest, the £854 of profit claimed
last year was £1122 short of the pref. re-
quirements. That is disregarding £B5OO
transferred from the general to the bad and
doubtful debts reserve, raising the latter to
£16,000, which has been deducted from the
book value of the asset.
The subsidiary showed a loss of £11,809
as against a profit of £6O in the previous
year. That was after £4773 had been visibly
struck off for bad debts, and £9OOO, making
£10.856 in all, reserved against doubtful
ones, etc.
During the year the parent reduced its
debtors’ balances by £99,844, by foreclosures
and otherwise, and £47,663 was lopped off
the overdraft: —
IQ9Q IQQn IQ2I
Paid capital .. £79,741 £168,573 £168,545 £168,545
Overdraft .. 9,521 78,056 73,430 25,767
Sundry creditors 1,406 9,325 4,908 10,595
Plant, etc. .. 946 700 500 500
Shares in other
cos 25,000 25,000 25,000
Book debts .. 89,133 274,838 249,692 149,848
Investments, etc. 10
Foreclosures, etc. 41,651
A picture-theatre freehold, over which the
co. held a first mortgage, fell into its hands
during the year, and has been taken into the
books at cost (£30,523). The property has
been returning the co. £6O per week net
rental for some time now. Another free-
hold was bought for the amount of the
first mortgage, £11,128, of which £5360 is
included in the sum coming to sundry credi-
tors. Thus the parent hopes to ultimately
recover all or part of a second mortgage
which had been advanced by the subsidiary
on this property, but which has been written
off by the pup as lost. Incidentally, about
half of the £10,595 coming to sundry credi-
tors is on account of collateral lodged with
the co. by borrowers.
The subsidiary itself also bought and ex-
changed properties to the amount of £12,602
during 1931, the idea being the ultimate re-
covery of second mortgages, which have been
written off as bad debts. When its books
closed at the end of Dec. there was £40,886
coming to the bank and depositors, and
£11,267 to sundry creditors; total, £52,153.
The net book value of debtors’ balances was
£56,836; the only other asset was the pro-
perties just referred to. Thus to repre-
sent the £25,000 at which shares in other
co.’s figures in the parent’s books, there were
net tangibles with a book value of £17,285.
The chairman says the provision for bad
debts, etc. (approximately £27,000, combin-
ing the figure of the two cos.), should prove
to be ample. But the market, doubtful of
the future, prices the pound ords. paid to
10s. at 3s. They are covered by net tan-
gibles with a book value of 19s. 6d. Similar
cover for the fully-paid 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
(24,700 of them) is £6 13s. 63. They are
not listed.
Garratt’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends.
Pref. To Re-
Jan., Loss. (6 p.c.), Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
1922.. 46.224 30 2)p.c.= 2069 27,811
Written off capital, £21,296.. .. 6,515
Profit. Reserves.
1923.. 11,800 90 Nil 11,710 5,195
, Goodwill (£4622) disappears.. .. 9,817
1924.. 25,186 60 10 p.c. = 8518 16,608 26,425
Set aside for taxes, etc., £BOOO . . 18,425
(10 p.c.)
1925.. 33,506 3914 10 p.c. = 8518 21,074 39,499
Written ofl, £3587 35,912
1926.. 36,014 10,100 12£ p.c.z=10,648 15,266 51,178
1927.. 7,674 10,100 10 ~,, 8,518 40,234
Shares in subsidiaries written down, £8976. . 31,258
Loss. 7% p.c.
1928.. 23,683 7,575 Nil
Special provision for losses on stocks, debtors, Beficit.
etc., £lB,OOO 18,000
1929.. 44,639 Nil Nil 62,639
Further special provision for losses, £1249.. 63,888
Written off capital, £63,888 .. ..
Profit. Reserves.
1930.. 21;087 7,575 Nil 13,512 13,512
Loss.
1931.. 592 2,525 Nil 10,395
Reserved for contingencies, £BOOO . . 2,395
Deficit.
1932.. 9,890 Nil Nil 7,495
Turnover in the motor-agency business has
become a shadow of what it used to be. In
N. S. Wales; new car registrations totalled
37,690 in 1928; the figure was 4228 for 1931,
a shrinkage of more than 88 p.c. Over the
same period the contraction was 80 p.c. in
Victoria; 78 p.c., Queensland. Competi-
tion for the trifle of business available led
to the payment of larger cominissions and
discounts, and to high valuations’ for traded-
in cars; the debts problem became more per-
plexing, and the market was glutted with
second-hand ’buses.
Under these conditions it became impos-
sible to. trade at a profit. Thus for the 12
months to the end of January, gross earn-
ings, including those of the chief subsidiary,
Overland Sydney, Ltd., were £36,840 lighter
at £3424 —a slip of £89,439 over the last
two years. Savings totalling £18,442 were
made in exes. (£22,414, including £2247
struck off for depreciation), leaving the loss
on the year’s trading at £18,990. This was
reduced to £9890 in the sheet by rubbing out
£BOOO reserved in the previous year for con-
tingencies, together with £llOO from an inner
reserve against doubtful debts, etc. Subject
to any intangibles there may be in the subsi-
diaries, that left £7495 of the capital unre-
presented by tangibles in the books at
Jan. 31.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances. Indeed, the co. is in a position to
take prompt advantage of any improvement
in trading conditions :
1924. 1928. 1931. 1932.
Capital . . £186,182 £186,182 £122,296 £122,296
Liabilities .. 257,491 121,236 15,399 5,539
Freeholds and
leaseholds .. 79,993 82,062 23,573 21,834
Plant, etc. . . 10,349 12,181 \ „
Stocks .. 202,189 1,067 )
Book debts . . 86,052 195,828 117,211 73,106
Cash, etc. .. 1,412
Shares in other
cos., cash, etc. 5,622 39,522 4,622 23,529
Last year’s difficulties are reflected in a
contraction of £44,105 in debtors’ balances,
which include advances to the Sydney and
Brisbane subsidiaries, while £9860 was
knocked off the debt, and the shareholdings,
cash, etc., item was strengthened by £18,907.
The more or less liquid surplus (£91,096,
including shares) was £15,33S lighter than
at the previous balance.
The co. has. had a chequered career. It
set up 25 years ago, but for the first 10 of
them it got little out of the business. For
the decade to the close of accounts in 1927
shareholders averaged 10 p.c.; but 4s, per
share was struck off the ords. to cover losses
in the 1921 slump; another 12s. was
slashed off, in 1929, reducing the face value
of the scrip to 4s. This last cut was mainly
to cover the loss on Fiat cars, stocks of
which, together with the agency, had passed
to another concern which lost its capital
and most of the unsecured creditors’ money
besides.
Last year the co. extended its Willys-
Overland agency to Queensland, and secured
the Singer franchise for that State and
N. S. Wales. But until the co.’s oner-
ous leases in N. S. Wales run out
in December next, trading there is
expected to be unprofitable. At the end of
November last there was £30,111 of accrued
divs. coming to the prefs., of which there
are 101,000 pound shares, t> p.c. cumulative,
in a paid capital of £122,296. But when
the position becomes clearer, plans for re-
construction are to be submitted to share-
holders. Neither class of scrip has an active
market these days.
Hoadley’s Chocolates, Ltd.
N
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1923.. 16,217 557 10 p.c. = 7487 8173 19,862
1924.. 13,913 5998 10 „ „ 7491 421 20,283
1925.. 9,274 6000 5 ~ „ 3748 19,809
Loss.
1926.. 4,639 6000 Nil 9,170
Profit. 4 p.c
1927.. 240 3000 Nil 6,410
Loss. Deficit.
1928.. 22,646 Nil Nil 16,236
Profit.
1929.. 6,693 Nil Nil 6693 9,543*
Loss.
1930.. 15,795 Nil Nil 25,338*
1931.. 26,677 Nil Nil 52,015*
*Freehold appreciation reserve ( £15,709), created
in 1929, not taken into account.
This co. took over H'oadley’s chocolate busi-
ness in Melbourne in 15)13. The aggregate
net result of the last six years’ operations
has been a loss of £62,823, of which £26,677
is in respect of the 12 months to Dec. 31
last, when turnover fell away 23 p.c. and
£6OOO was reserved against bad debts.
The co. was badly hit in the post-war
slump, when a fire added to the difficulties.
But there was a prompt recovery and a
comfortable 10 p.c. was paid for the four
years to the end of 1924. Then it was
decided to get in £75,000 of 8 p.c. pref. money
to enlarge and modernise the factory and
lighten the overdraft, thus doubling paid capi-
tal. But Nestle’s large new chocolate factory
at Abbotsford (Sydney) had been completed,
the Cadbury-Pry-Pascall firm in Tasmania
began to spread its activities, and Mac-
Eobertsons started to extend their business.
Hoadley’s p. and 1. debit now amounts to
£52,015; the only offset against it is a re-
serve for £15,708, created in 1929 by writing
up the book value of freeholds. In 1928
part of the freeholds, etc., was sold. There
is still £12,552 coming to the co. in connec-
tion with the transaction; it is included
with debtors in the following table: —
1 Q9fi T QOQ IQQfI T QOI
Paid capital. . £149,967 £149,967 £149,967 £149,967
Overdraft ... 40,707 43,767 41,025 44,613
Other liabilities 29,856 18,844 17,112 10,150
Freeholds, etc. 42,861 25,063 40,580 40,133
Plant, etc. ~. 64,262, 55,839 46,791 42,036
Shares in other
cos. .. 5,374 5,374 5,374 5,374
Stocks . . 62,082 46,686 55,138 46,312
Debtors .. 56,161 62,779 49,198 33,735
Cash, etc. .. 2,796 1,268 1,392 833
The liquid position strengthened upon
the disposal of the fixed assets, but owing
to severe trading reverses the more or less
liquid surplus (£26,117) has slipped £22,005
since 1928. The debt (£54,763, including
£44,613 on overdraft) was reduced £3374
last year. In addition, there is a contingent
liability on the co. to purchase 20,000 shares
at £1 each in Federal Milk Pty., Ltd., from
W. Hoadley at his option or death. Stocks
were reduced £8826 last year; trade debtors
diminished £15,452, after allowing for bad
debts written off. A certain amount of de-
preciation has been allowed on plant each
year; the item (£42,036) showed a drop of
£4756 last term. But while the business
remains a heavy loser book values of fixed
assets must be severely discounted.
A cash-trading policy has lately been
adopted, and improved results are claimed.
But, besides the overdraft, which must be
causing concern, there is now £27,000 due to
the prefs. These shares are priced at 2s.
6d. on the market. The book value of the
net tangible cover is 265. Id., excluding the
assets appreciation reserve.
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co.
To Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1921.. 5,411 10 p.c. = 4000 1411 13,751
1922.. 6,376 10 „ „ 4000 2376 16,127
1923.. 7,696 10 ~ „ 4000 3696 19,823
1924.. 7,969 10 „ „ 4000 3969 23,792
Provident fund, £lOOO .. .. 22,792
1925.. 7,749 10 p.e. = 5000 2749 25,541
1926.. 8,663 10 „ „ 6000 2663 28,204
1927.. 10,366 10 „ „ 6000 4366 32,570
1928. . 10,514 10 „ „ 6000 1 „ nR ,
Provident fund, £lOOO j 3614 36 ’ 084
1929.. 11,182 10 p.c. = 6000 5182 41,266
1930.. 13,101 10 „ „ 9000 4101 45,367
1931. . 11,764 10 „ „ 9000 ) m 4 m
Provident fund, £lOOO j
1932.. 11,160 10 p.c. = 9000 2160 49,291
There has been a sharp fall in values and
a cut in returns from Government securi-
ties ; but the effect upon the commis-
sion and interest earnings of this little
Adelaide trustee co. has been largely
offset by the continued growth of the
business. Also, the co. has none of
its own funds invested in premises, net re-
turns from which are very meagre these days.
Thus during the last 14 years shareholders
have had a regular 10 p.c.. paid capital has
been more than quadrupled by cash sub-
scriptions, making it £90,000 in £1 shares
paid to 55., and surplus profits amounting
to 2s. 9d. per share had been accumulated
to support and assist capital at March 31.
Much of the co.’s success has been due to
the support of its big parent, Elder, Smith
and Co., Ltd.
The following table shows the way in
which the business has stepped along and
the cost of handling it: —
Gross Exes. p.e. of
Trusts. Profits. Exes. Gross.
1919.. £3,217,760 £11,212 £7,671 68.4 p c
1925.. 6,213,625 29,203 20,454 70.0
1926.. 7,281,377 31,772 23,109 72.7 ’
1927.. 8,027,324 34,486 24,120 69.9
1928.. 8,685,889 36,744 26,230 71.3
1929.. 9,845,192 38,433 27,251 70.9
1930.. 10,307,327 . 41,371 28,270 68.3 ’
1931.. 10,545,284 40,502 28,738 70.9
1932.. 11,124,002 40,252 29,092 72.2
Thus trusts put on the books last year ex-
ceeded the value of those wound up by
(Continued on page 16.)


WHEN BUYING CIGARETTES
express!
stat
Stqtb
fXPIVpSS
\
m
m
*e s
i'CICARf Iff,
No finer popular blend of cigarette tobacco has
ever been discovered than that in State Express
" Three-Threes."
No greater feat of cigarette production has ever
been achieved than that which provides this Ardath
blend at NINE for sixpence.
Trebly wrapped for perpetual freshnessl—Cork and plain
tips for everyone’s preference I
Be value-wise! —when buying cigarettes, state expressly
"State Express!"
3AI -B'S 1
9L6' 184 or 1'- 27LK6
Also in Flat Fifties, Flat Hundreds and
Round Airtight Fifties.
COR.K.TIPPED AND PLAIN


Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting’
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— advt
* * * *
Ideas.— Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies. M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—-Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * s': *
PROBATE DUTlES.—Taxation Commissioners are
ever greedy for Probate and Succession Duties.
The amount that you fondly regard as being
sufficient to cover all needs will probably be cut to
ribbons. What is more, you can’t get ’out of it —
Protect your dependants for the full amount by a
probate policy with the T. and G. Mutual Life
Society. This policy actually pays the duties. Ring
or write any T. & G. Office. The inquiry costs
nothing.— Advt. [3
The largest Mutual Life
office in the Empire '
AMP
How many men desert
their wives unintentionally?
jffr.
'VI'
ry
a
1
&
3s
mvnnpn]
=3*
They forget to make any
provision in case of death
How many men? More than the world realises! They go cheerfully
through life, living up to every penny they earn, and then some-
thing happens— an unexpected illness, an accident, and they are
gone! Their wives and families are left to battle along for themselves.
A young couple have a right to be care-free, to live a joyous life and a
full life, but the best way to ensure freedom from anxiety is for the
husband to assure his life with the A.M.P.
Ihe A.M.P. is the largest and strongest mutual life office in the British
Empire, Its assets are valued at £86,600,000. Isn’t that the sort of
institution of which to become a member? A man in good health,
aged 25, can have an A.M.P. whole-life policy in the A.M.P. for £5OO
for a quarterly premium of £2/14/7, a shade over four shillings a
week. That £5OO will grow with bonuses. In time it may double itself.
USE THIS COUPON without letting another day go by!
LEARN HOW LITTLE IT WILL COST.
Australian Mutual Provident Society,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A. C. Hulling worth, A. I. A., General Manager.
Dear Sirs
This advertisement has set me thinking. I am ~.. years of
age. Tell me what it would cost to carry enough insurance to give my
wife £3 a week after I’m gone.
Name
Address
A-M-P
Gssets:£B6,6oo,ooo.
Gives best possible contract.
£578,718, which was more than double the
previous year’s net growth. It cost an extra
£354 to handle the larger business. Corpus
and other commission earnings (£31,652)
were £1097 _ better; interest, etc. (£8600),
was £1347 lighter, leaving the net result at
12.4 p.c. on capital as against 13 p.c. and
14.5 p.c. for the two preceding years. Last
year’s gross interest, etc., was 9.5 p.c. on
capital as against 11 p.c. for the previous
term, and the figure may shrink a trifle yet.
Still, the 10 p.c. diA*. may not be interrupted;
it largely depends upon the net return from
the trust business.
At March 31 the balance-sheet total Avas
£147,128, of which £129,176 was represented
by Government securities, mostly Consols,
which are free of State income tax. All but
£5OO of the balance was represented by book
debts, cash, etc. Creditors figured for £337.
The market prices the scrip at 10s. 3d.
as against 9s. Bd. a year ago. Allowing for
the final div., the return at 10s. 3d. is 5.1
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The backing
is 7.5. 9d. in net tangibles.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929*.. 10,898 20 p.c. = 4,000 6,898 2,226
1930 . . 31,568 40 „ „ 8,000 23,568 25,794
Bonus scrip issued, £20,000 .. 5,794
1931 .. 24,877 40 p.c. = 20,000 4,877 10,671
Unexplained reduction reserves, £2375.. 8,296
1932 .. 28,725 22£ p.c. = 16,875 11,850 20,146
*l5 months.
This prosperous little concern, which is
Adelaide controlled, Avas floated by Guinea
Cold in 1928. Its ’planes are the only means
of quick transport between the coast and
the goldfields, some 3000 ft. up in the heart
of the mountains in New Guinea. There
was competition at the start; .still, enough
profit was shown in the first 15 months to pay
a 20 p.c. div., rub out £4673 of preliminary
exes, and put £2226 in the cupboard. Then
1 he competition withdreAV, prospecting livened,
and a 40 p.c. div. was sweetened with a
onc-for-one bonus scrip issue in the follow-
ing year. During the next 12 months the
fleet was increased, and the co.’s charges
Avore reduced; still there was more than
enough profit to repeat the 40 p.c. div.
Meanwhile contracts had been entered
into with Bulolo Gold Dredging, and share-
holders welcomed the request for £15,000 to
finance the increased activities. Thus paid
capital is now £75,000. The outstanding
feature of the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts was the transport of tAVO
large dredges to the Bulolo field ; this was
done without mishap and to schedule. The
year’s gross earnings (£95,619) sprang
£27,697; exes. (£66,894) took £21,049 of
the increase, leaving the net result at 37.6
p.c. on capital as against 4917 p.c. in the
previous year. That is leaving out of the
reckoning an unexplained reduction of
£2375 in reserves. The div. was dropped to
22| p.c., the final being at the rate of 20
p.c. p.a. Thus £11,850 was added to re-
serves, raising them to £20,146, the idea
being to strengthen the cash position in
order to finance replacements.
When the books closed buildings, equip-
ment, etc., figured at £64,915; book debts,
etc., £24,464; cash, £20,172. There was
£14,406 coming to creditors.
Though a “considerable cut” was recently
made in the freight rate, no further reduc-
tion in the div. is anticipated during the
current term. Two more dredges are to be
transported to the Bulolo field in the near
future. Investment possibilities of the scrip
depend largely upon the life of the field and
Avhether New Guinea Goldfields decides to
run its own service. On the market the
pound shares fetch 405.; at that price the
return is 10 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis.
The rich strike on the 1650 ft. level at
Great Boulder promises to give fresh life to
the Golden Mile, and to greatly prolong the
field’s existence. AVhere penetrated, the new
lode is 27ft. wide, and averages I6dwt. per
ton. Careful sampling of present strippings
from the face east of the drive for a width of
17ft. shows values averaging 21dwt. On the
western side of the drive the ore is of
medium grade. The lode, which is well
defined, is impregnated with iron pyrites,
etc., and contains a little telluride —it was
the telluride that carried all the high values
in the past. The lode is cased in more or
less fine-grained greenstone (quartz dolorite),
and there are good reasons to believe that
it may continue for great length. It is
favorably situated on the eastern side of the
Great Boulder property, 'and is not likely
to' come into contact with the felsite por-
phyry dyke, about 300 ft. wide, which tra-
A-erses the field from south to north. It was
probably the pushing up of this dyke from
many thousands of feet below that was
responsible for the rich lodes which occurred
on its Avestern side, such as the Great
Boulder. Horseshoe and Ivanhoe. Great
Boulder’s main lode, in its northern con-
tinuation, penetrated the dyke, and for some
distance continued in it; then it passed into
the Horseshoe property below the 2650 ft.
level, (treat Boulder’s fully-paid 2s. shares,
which fetched 3s. a month ago, were in
demand at Ss. 6d. on the Australian market
and at 6s. in London at last Aveek-end.
v v v
For the 28 days to May 23 Bulolo Gold
Dredging recovered 48870 z. bullion, valued
at 66,000 gold dollars, from 248.300 c.y. of
wash. In Australian currency the value of
the yield Avas £22,459, or 21.69 d. per yard, as
against £19,655, or 19.35 d. per yard, for the
preceding 28 days. How these averages com-
pare with bore values for the actual ground
being worked the board has not announced ;
the “Wild Cat” would not be surprised if
they were better than estimates. Nevertheless
it Avill be some time yet before comparison
Avith the average prospectus value of 2s. Id.
per yard on a gold basis is justified. On the
market the co.’s five-dollar shares advanced
from 485.. 9d. to 51s. 6d. last month.
* * *
New Guinea Developments, for which the
late “Hoppy” Clark pegged some leases on
the Edie early in 1929, is in the breakers.
The co. owes £692 for rental on the leases,
of which there are 19 “adjoining the New
Guinea Goldfields’ property.” Over £17,000
has been spent on development. The direc-
tors assure shareholders that they have a
property of undoubted value, for which a
demand is expected within the next feAV
months. New Guinea Goldfields had a look
at these properties some time ago, but did
nothing further with them. The original
report stated that a reef of manganese and
heen.cut by a eosteen on the top
ot Edie Mountain ; the estimated value was
t° Z ' I*l° «the ton. A general meeting is to
be called to decide whether to sell the assets
or reconstruct the co.
* * * *
New Guinea Goldfields, which will have
its mill running in a few months, reports
L3° r^ ng . pro ? t ? f fll > 2 34 from alluvial
1 < Auction for April. The co.’s pound shares
are fairly steady around ss. 6d. on ’Change.
'** ❖ ijc
During the four weeks to May 6 the
1 aimer River Go. (N.Q.) treated 30.500
Sffil 8 °L gr , a . vel for lOOoz. gold, valued at
±boO. Working costs were £376. Sunken
timber and a rock bar were the troubles. All
the buckets .have been re-lipped, and the
bucket band is reported in first-class order.
ino further repairs are anticipated within
the next four months
*.* * *
rvT « e w i Britain Sluicing, Strathbogie
(JN.S.W.), is one of the many Australian tin-
mining concerns which have been hit hard
by the fall m metal prices. For the year
°. April o a loss of £l3 was registered,
raising the p. and 1. debit to £1164. To
me ? rr’ J i coming to creditors there was cash
and tin ore totalling £405. The property
is being worked by tributors, who got 28
tons locwt. of tin ore, worth £96 per ton.
During the year the directors had several
pioperties in the State under consideration,
but none proved suitable. The market looks
askance at the scrip.
* * *
After detailed examination of the Mararoa
Co. s property at Reedys (W.A.), the United
Afr H-n °w ih*? l ork) has t«™ed down
Morton Webber’s offer of the option. The
withdrawal, said to be due to the American
co. s desire to husband its cash resources
is claimed to in no way reflect on the merits
of the property. The inspecting engineer*
lecommended diamond drilling. Mr. Webber
has'decided to proceed with his option, which
is for years, and originally involved an
outlay of £75,000 on development.
* * * *
“Tribute”: Last year tributors on Lake
\ lew and Star were responsible for approxi-
mately 70,000 tons, which yielded 92,300 fine
ounces. When the present agreements expire
they are not to be renewed. The men, how-
ever, contend that their contracts cannot be
terminated until the decision of the Privy
Council on the exchange question is an-
nounced, probably in July, and have asked
Minister for Mines Scaddan to assist.
* * ❖ *
Broken Hill Prop, has made a bid for
North Kalgurli, whose directors are con-
sidering the offer. But the market is doubt-
ful whether the North will accept what the
Prop, is willing to give.
* * * *
•Took Thomson and another optimist have
pegged four square miles of gold-bearing con-
glomerates at Nullagine (W.A.). Years
ago an English co., which picked and chose,
mined portion of the deposits, but high costs
and diminishing values beat it. Some dia-
monds were found in the mortar-boxes of
the battery, but nearly all were too small to
be of any commercial value.
* =!= * *
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) is about to
return Is. per share of its capital. There
are 1,100,000 fully paid 4s. shares, so the
proposed distribution will mop up £55,000.
After parting with this the co. will still
have a substantial cash surplus and well
over a million tons of tailings, which arc
being treated at the rate of about 30,000 tons
a month.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold production for April was
48,9360 z., the highest for that month since
1921. For the first four months of 1932
the State’s yield was 184,7560 z„ or 45,2370 z.
more than for the corresponding period of
1031. The output of other minerals is very
small.
* * * *
Perth Mint continues to be invaded by
sellers, of second-hand gold ornaments, mostly
old-fashioned jewellery. For the first four
months of this year £78,481, including the
exchange premium, was paid for this class
of stuff.
'!'
_ Another reported oilfield in the West, this
time near Boolardy station in the north, has
been declared by Government Geologist
Blatchford to show no signs of petroleum.
Some adjoining territory is said to warrant
geological reconnaissance. Freney’s, the one
active searcher for oil in the State, is put-
ting down another hole, and is hoping for
the best.
* * * *
The Hauraki Peninsula (M.L.) is experi-
encing its third boom. From Coromandel, at
the northern end. to • Wairongomai,- at the
southern, hundreds of prospectors are comb-
ing the hills. Engineer W. .T. Gibbs, who
has been systematically prospecting the
Wairongomai-Te Aroha district, has lately
pegged a large area, including some old
workings; he has christened the claim the
Hum. According to samples assayed at the
Waihi School of Mines, the ore promises to
average around an ounce.
***><!
For April Blackwater Mines, Reefton
(M.L.). the largest quartz show in the
South Island, got 17250 z. fine gold from
3442 tons put through the battery, plus an-
other 2020 z. from the concentrates. The
lot showed a net profit of £1771. with gold
at the standard price. There i.s £250,000
of capital to feed; the £1 paids are fairly
steady around 7s. 9d. in the market. An-
other Reefton show, the Alexander, got
7650 z. fine gold, of which 6040 z. came from
the battery and the rest from cyanidation
of sands.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
J. 5.1,: (1) At June 30, 1931, issued, £146,060;
paid, £134,699. (2) No; foreign capital has been
offered and rejected. There was only £9lO coming
to creditors. Cash and debtors totalled £3430.
(3) At May 16 No. 2 bore was down 537 ft. in
clay and fine sand. (4) Yes, but no other oil
prospecting concern has gone about its work quite
so thoroughly J.G.: No alluvial fields in Java.
Output of Sumatra was 3429 kilos gold in 1928;
only a few claims are being worked in Celebes.
You would have to satisfy Butch authorities that
you had sufficient capital for whatever project you
contemplate.... In Doubt: N 0.., .H.Iv.R.: At Sept.
30 last, the book value of net tangibles exceeded
the life fund ,by £35,982. Exact position will not
be known until the actuary’s figures are made avail-
able. Over 68 p.c. of the total assets was Govern-
ment securities; there was £140,542 of uncalled
and unpaid capital. Bonus prospects are p00r....
C.E.8.: (1) Bank deposit offers greatest freedom
from risk; the interest is 4 p.c. for 24 months’
currency. (2) Australian Glass, British Tobacco,
8.P., C.S.R., Morris Hedstrom and W. H. Soul,
Pattinson are all sound stocks, but market is likely
to fluctuate according to political and other develop-
ments... .J.T.M.: Know nothing of it. What is the
address of the syndicate?... .D.G. (Cooktown) : Co.
is offering 25-acre lots at £2O0 —£50 down and
balance as arranged. Idea is to establish a com-
munity settlement of peanut fanners. The co.
undertakes to buy the nuts at current market price
f.o.b. Cooktown ; about £4O per ton at the moment.
Balance-sheet not yet issued; unable to say what
co.’s financial position i 5.... J.W.M.: (1) Impos-
sible to say ; too mjich notice need not be taken of
prospectus estimates/ (2) On its own figuring the
co. would be missing a good thing. (3) If you
want to sell, write to the secretary. The co. will
only resell fully-paid bonds... .F.W.P.: Scrip is
not listed. Write to secretary, 424-30 George-street,
Sydney, and ask him to sell scrip for you; also
your sharebroker may be able to find a buyer....
P.8.E.: Write to the secretary, Adelaide Steamship
Building, Bridge-street, Sydney... .A.C.H.: See B.
2/12/’3l J.A.L.: (1) The co.’s Sydney office has
frequently refused to supply balance-sheets or other
information. It is one of the most doubtful forestry
propositions. (2) No. Forestry bonds are a long-
term speculation.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
“Why Don’t They Employ Us?”
Dear Bulletin, —“Gad” and “S.N.R.
both ask “Why don’t they employ us.' 1 and
as one of the “theys” I would like to put
our point of view. Men come round here,
puzzled, depressed, often obviously .good
types. They look bitterly at the thistles
growing up to our doorstep, and ask tor
work. “There is plenty of work, but no
money,” I reply. They glance still more
bitterly at our beautiful property, on which
we already owe three instalments and tor
which we haven’t a hope of ever paying on
present conditions. They stonily regard our
fat sheep and cattle, which are all on agist-
ment or mortgaged far beyond their value.
They cast an ironic glance at our home, from
which we will probably be cast, penniless, as
soon as the moratorium lifts, and they say
“Thank you” sarcastically and walk away.
“S.N.lt.s” and “Gads” talk of the fat time
the pastoralist has had. But didn t he
have fat costs, too, which ate up most of
his profit, fat land prices to pay and tat.
interest and wages bills V All I know is that
my husband started out many years ago with
capital which, safely invested, would have
turned him in a comfortable income for tile.
He chose to invest in pastoral property and
work hard. We have always lived quietly,
and neither drink, smoke nor gamble, and
we find ourselves in our present position.
We have paid thousands in wages in the
past 20 years, and have evidently not got
any return, or we could not be where- we
are. Taking year in, year out, the on ly
men who have made money on the land toi
many years past are the ones who have sold
out well and got their money. And that is
not making money on the land at ail. xouis
faithfully, Tails Up.
Farm Mortgages
Dear Bulletin, —The money-lender has
had a stranglehold on us. It has been impos-
sible to get the use of money on broad acres
under 6 i p.c., and lately one big co. was
asking 7 p.c. for loans or renewals ot loans.
If a man bought stock on a p.n. he was
charged 8 p.c. If at the end of three months
a renewal was required, the interest rose
to 10 p.c. Fire, flood, drought, crop or
stock failure from any cause, or poor prices
even for good crops, found the landownei
struggling desperately to make ends meet.
Storekeepers and business people, knowing
their man, lend assistance, realising that
these 'troubles will be surmounted in time.
But Shylock too often fails to show any
leniency. Recently there lias been the spec-
tacle of Riverina and Victorian Mallee
farmers attending forced mortgagee sales and
absolutely preventing them. It is deplorable
when a section of the people take the law
into their hands; but is there not great pro-
vocation? These mortgagors are hard-work-
ing decent farmers, able and willing to strive
on. That after all their years of struggle
they should be unceremoniously bundled out
on the roadside is unthinkable. Westralia
has just furnished a case where a mortgagee
seized the farm and all thereon, even to the
household chattels. The haystacks went up
in smoke, and the farmer’s semi-demented
wife, who had worked in the harvest fioM
with her man in a brave endeavor to carry
on, was arrested for incendiarism. A wise
Bench decreed that she shall come up in a
year’s lime for sentence. But the family is
on the roadside, destitute, after all their
brave work. —Yours, Curlew .
Graziers’ Costs
Dear Bulletin, —Almost all primary pro-
ducers are working on the very bedrock ot
running expenses—that is, expenses which
they can themselves control. But what about
the expenses w T hich they don’t control !
Wages to the man on the land are nothing;
it’s these costs controlled by the people who
are urging reduction that take toll of the
proceeds of stuff sold. A director of one
of the wool firms recently told me it cost
them Bs.'2d. to handle wool, whereas they
only charged the grower 7s. Whilst doubt-
ing it, I could understand it when I saw
the army of baggy-trousered clerks tripping
over each other in the wool department, and
again when I was invited to morning tea
in the wool store —the morning tea being ulti-
mately shouted by myself at 7s. per bale.
The reduction-of-costs talk is just about cut
out, and it is time some other slogan was
thought out before we get to find out too
much about it. —Yours, F. A. Q.
The Wool Market
Dear Bulletin, —No country with any
kind of wool to sell can produce it cheaper
than Australia produces her indispensable
merino wool to-day. The only other wool-
exporting country which counts as a com-
petitor in merino production is S’Africa,
and it was admitted by their representative
in attendance at what was called an Empire
Wool Conference in Melbourne last June
that it could not be produced in that country
any cheaper. Indeed, reliable figures reveal
a cost of production higher than that of
Australia.
The obvious and unvarnished truth about
Australian merino wool is that the world
that wants it cannot do without it and
cannot get it anywhere else. As a statement
of fact that is undeniable. It next becomes
the responsibility of' anyone addressing liimselt
to the question to justify the price offered
by the world —a price which actually does
not amount to half its cost of production
for a commodity that cannot be done without.
The grower is asked to believe that the ruinous
descending price level of the last three
seasons is solely due to _ the increasing
poverty of the world, and this in defiance of
the established fact that the cost of the
raw material has always been the smallest
factor concerned with the selling price of
the manufactured article.
A little while ago The Bulletin per-
tinently asked if we were good salesmen.
Of wool we are not salesmen at all, but
fools masquerading as charitable contributors
to a “poor” world. —Yours etc., Harold
Sims.
The Land and Wealth
Dear Bulletin. —“M.C.W.” writes (B.
18/5/’S2) of land as wealth. It isn’t.
It is only .an opportunity, and an opportunity
onlv for the right man. You cant eat the
laud, unless you are an earthworm. People
like “M.C.W.” have a vague idea ot highly-
cultivated fields, properly fenced, in full bear-
ing, with a comfortable homestead in the
middle-distance. The reality is different. These
amenities are not ready-made. Imagine in-
stead SUO acres of heavy timber and close
scrub It runs a few rabbits and possums,
but. apart from that, produces nothing edible.
It requires ringing, burning-off, clearing,
ploughing, harrowing and fencing before it
will even begin to produce food. All this
means time, money and bitter hard work.
Given a man who has the capacity for haid
work and the knowledge of how to apply
it how is he to live in the meantime !
’From a long experience of country con-
ditions, I would say that even if the Crown
gave the settler such a block for nothing lie
could not afford to take it unless he had
from £lOOO to £l5OO behind him. Twenty
years ago the N.S.W. Government subdivided
the Pilliga Scrub. A new tenure (the Home-
stead Farm) was invented, the main incidents
of which were that the settler got the liist
live years rent free, and after that had to pay
only 21 per cent, of the unimproved capital
value. "The settlers were handpicked. Every
man had to show a long experience on the
land and a certain minimum of capital, plant
and stock. The G. S. Bank was remodelled to
permit liberal advances on easy terms. At
the end of 20 years not one of the original
settlers remains! Some of the farms have
been forfeited and reselectcd three or four
times. And the Pilliga is not poor land; m
fact, it is good land—Yours, FiTZWILLIAM.
Localising Labor
Dear Bulletin, —The Sunset towns
throughout the wool country of West Q.,
once teeming with business life, are almost
deserted. These towns depend upon the pas-
toral industry and those employed therein,
and shearing-time was always boom-time.
For some time past, however, shearing con-
tracts have been let out to southern con-
tractors, who enlist southern laboi, whicn
is met at the trains on arrival and imme-
diately transported to the job without so
much as a packet of cigarettes being fought
in the town. On completion of shearing
team after team arrive back in the towns
with barely enough time to catch their trains
south; and again the towns reap no benefit.
Local men and their families are forced to
exist upon police rations. Charleville is
the one oasis in a land of desolation. In
the latter part of last year its towns-
people became active, and a scheme was m-
nugu rated whereby labor would be enlisted
locally. This received
the hearty support of
graziers and other em-
ployers of the district,
with the result that con-
tracts were let out locally
this year, and all labor
was enlisted in the dis-
trict. Recently one con-
tractor paid out £7OOO in
wages to shearers and
shed-hands, and various
other amounts since.
Other contract o r s
have paid out similar
large sums locally, with
the result that Cliarle-
ville is enjoying a fair
measure of prosperity
and happiness. The an-
nual races and show, just
over, were considered the
best ever held in the
town. —Yours etc., Sam
Slocum.
Education and Other
Superstitions
Dear Bulletin, —ln
the infancy of the human
race it was only natural
for people to attribute
miraculous powers to
what we now regard as
.quite ordinary objects.
But in these enlightened
days we flatter ourselves
we know a thing or two.
Yet superstition is still a
more powerful influence
on people’s lives, a
greater directing force on
tlieir actions, than reli-
gion or law or any sys-
tem of ethics.
Of all our own super-
stitions the most wide-
spread and firmly-rooted
is the belief that educa-
tion, as the believers re-
verently call the instruc-
tion given in State
schools, is all that is re-
quired to turn a country
into a Utopia. Give us
education, they cry;
establish kindergartens
and schools and univer-
sities ; we shall, of course,
not pay anything for the
privilege of sending our
children to these institu-
tions, even though we
think they will bring
about the Millennium—
we want the money to
spend on motor-cars and
moving pictures and other
blessings of civilisation.
Let Government, which
by our votes we have
created, but which we do
not in the least under-
stand and cannot control
—let it see to this.
For this is another
superstition, the Govern-
ment superstition; the
pathetic and childish
ignorance of its func-
tions, the blind faith in
its powers, the belief
that by some magic it
can save us from the
effects of our own folly,
and re-create by proclama-
tion the wealth we have
dissipated. And not the least extraordinary
feature is that the members of the Govern-
ments are just as firmly imbued with this
superstition as are the dupes who elect
them. —Yours, H. D. Wakd.
Patents Administration
Dear B., —The Statutory Rules, 1932,
made under the Australian Patents Acts,
are unsatisfactory. In making Patent appli-
cations certain delays are unavoidable. It
is provided by section 48 of the Act 1907
that a patent must be accepted within 12
months from filing the application, blit by
Regulation 14 an extension of time not ex-
ceeding three months may be obtained on
payment of a fine of £1 per month. Perhaps
a further drawing is required, or, perhaps
the official decision is that more than
one invention is included in the application.
This involves expense and expense involves
delay. The existing fines of £1 per month
for an extension of time are higher than
those in most countries. Now the new rules
provide for three months’ extension of time
on the following terms: —
One month .. £5 0 0
Two months . . 12 10 0
Three months 22 10 0
Bear in mind the delay is often due to
scarcity of cash, and consider whether the
regulations are reasonable at a time when
moratoria are in the air. Bear in mind also
that the normal time for acceptance in
England and in M.E. is 15 months instead of
12 months as in Australia. My suggestion
is that the statutory time should be ex-
tended to 15 months. This would require
legislation amending section 48. Until this
is done the three months’ extension should
be increased by regulation to six months at
the existing rate of £1 per month. Even
this is too dear, but not absolutely unreason-
able. Another objectionable feature is that
the additional three months is obtainable
only on showing cause. This merely creates
unnecessary official and unofficial work. If
the fine is paid, that should be sufficient.—
Yours, Miro.
Russia’s Five-year Plan
Dear Bulletin. —Russia has become a
buyer of wheat from “capitalistic” countries
outside, and to that extent the Five-year
Plan has failed; but as anyone who tried
to dismiss Stalin from office would imme-
diately disappear, it may be a long time
before the failure is allowed to leak out.
The Bolsheviks got over the great con-
fiscation and repudiation problem where the
Australian Bolsheviks stuck, but they col-
lapsed at the reconstruction stage of Com-
uranism. The Government took charge of all
foreign trade, both buying and selling. It
bought in the local market at its own price,
and its price was very low, because it
wanted to make big sales in foreign markets
and get big money to buy machinery. Some-
times it bought up, compulsorily and cheaply,
too much food for sale abroad, and didn t
leave enough for home consumption, and
now it is reduced to buying wheat abroad
at a higher figure than it sold at. Neither
have the immense quantities of machinery
bought abroad to equip the immense factories
produced the results expected, mainly for lack
of experts to either make or use the macii-
inery. Any college professor can make out
a case for Communism ; it is the material for
carrying it into effect which always fails.
Yours, J. E.
The Disarmament Conference
Dear Bulletin, —Instead of wasting its
time on such projects as outlawing poison
gas and microbial warfare, the Disarmament
Conference would be better employed devis-
ing measures for making idealism in war-
fare illegal. Being a false veneer over
actual savagery, idealism only serves to
exacerbate the situation. Britain went to
war on France’s side against Germany
ostensibly to save little Belgium from in-
vasion, but actually to prevent the Channel
ports falling into the hands of a dangerous
rival. The result was a long and incredibly
wasteful conflict, ending in the temporary
prostration of Germany and the elevation of
France to the position of chief menace to
the stability of Europe. The former allies
now hate each other worse than they hated
Germany, with a joint concentration of hate
on America. Social systems have been up-
rooted, monarchies destroyed and democracies
abolished.
Japan and Russia are at present prepar-
ing to go to war over Manchuria. Plenty
of idealistic reasons why the war should be
fought to a conclusion will be provided by
both parties. There will be a long-drawn
out and exhausting conflict, during which
America and other neutrals will lend money
and sell munitions to both parties. When
sufficient numbers of soldiers and civilians
have been killed, peace will be declared on
tac mound of corpses. Then for the next
10 years the various allies will fight about
reparations and debt adjustments.
All armies should be informed of the real
reasons why they have been set fighting;
then they would probably decide to fight
with pillows. But no Government dare
supply its people with that information.
Well' then, why not make the job one for
the League of Nations?—Yours, M. G. S.
FACING THE STORM.
“Britain is resuming payments of war debt to the U.S.A.’ Britain, in common with the
rest of the world, is approaching the climax. It is impossible to exaggerate the gravity of the situation."
UNCLE SAM (accepting a cheque): “Wal, John, I will say this: if you go down, you go clean."


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Grand Opera Season
Criterion “The Barretts of Wimpole Street”
TATE Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Blue Roses”
State Movies and Talkies
♦
“Cavalleria Busticana” and “Pagliacci,”
bracketed as the eleventh item of the Wil-
liamson co.’s repertoire to be presented in
Sydney, are connected by many ties, and
have certain similarities. Each is the work
of a previously unknown composer, product
of the inspiration that sometimes comes to
ambitious young men in the glad, confident
morning of life, and returns not again. Each
is dramatic in the later Verdi manner, the
effect enhanced by abrupt changes of mode
and tonality. Each holds more a promise
than a fulfilment of rich melodic perform-
ance, though each is a mine of golden
melody, for neither Mascagni nor Leon-
cavallo could manufacture a long aria or
amply develop a theme. Each deals with
marital infidelity and its tragic consequences.
“Pagliacci” was written deliberately to ex-
ploit the demand for this style of thing
created by “Cavalleria,” and by great good
luck provided Leoncavallo with the concen-
trated operatic form to which his genius was
best suited—his dreams of being Verdi and
Wagner rolled into one were only dreams.
Finally “Pagliacci” is just a nice length
to fit into an evening shared with the one-
act ‘‘Cavalleria,” and the two have been
wedded, apparently indissolubly, these 40
years.
The Williamson ‘co.’s presentation of these
two operas was under the baton of Wando
Aldrovandi, to outward seeming a much more
dynamic and forceful conductor than is
Rossi, whose suave economy of movement
gives him an aspect almost of indif-
ference. Aldrovandi—this was most appa-
rent in the “Cavalleria” intermezzo—likes to
put some of his own individuality into the
composer’s phrasing; sometimes to the com-
poser’s advantage; sometimes not. Anna
Surani was Santuzza, and sang her arias,
particularly “Vol le sapete,” magnificently
—too magnificently, in fact. The plump
ana gentle Bernardi cooed Turiddu’s lines
with his usual air of tender melancholy, and
lus efforts to be rough with Santuzza, who
could have picked him up and thrown him
ail the way from Pitt-street to Jericho, were
pathetic, Grazia Angelau. was
Lola, who, in punishment for being a dis-
loyal wife, gets hardly any of the vocal fat
Mascagni so richly showers upon the other
characters. But she was well in the picture,
and it was unfortunate that Turiddu was
so closely keeping an eye on Santuzza, with
an eye to avoiding assault and battery, that
he didn’t see the nice red rose Lola threw
him as she entered the church. It lay on
the ground till the bitter end, to be trodden
on by all. _ Del Chiaro made Alfio, the
cuckold, a tragic figure from the jump, which he
-u’ acted, and acted well. On hearing
i wife ’ s carryings-on he was so upset
that he sat on a chair that wasn’t there,
which wasn’t intended, but didn’t matter
much. Evelyn Hall was a little stiff as
Mamma Lucia. Her mechanical gesture of
raising her hands to the sides of her head,
coinciding as it frequently did with a top-
note from Santuzza, gave an impression that
she found the sound overwhelming. The
chorus let itself go in the Resurrection
Hymn, and did that fine scrap of melody
full justice.
“Pagliacci” is the co.’s brightest achieve-
ment to date, ranking after “Boheme.” Gran-
forte saw all he wanted to see of the audi-
ence when he declaimed the prologue before
the curtain. Confirming this Showman’s im-
pression that there is a section of Sydney
operagoers, always the leaders of applause,
that doesn’t know much about what it is
applauding, there was a salvo of clapping in
the pause before the Pagliacci delivers his
final sentence, entirely spoiling the effect.
Thereafter, throughout the play and the play
within the play, the clown addressed himself to
the person he was supposed to be addressing
or to the stage audience, as circumstances
demanded. All of them—Valobra’s Nedda,
Mirassou’s Canio, Granforte’s Tonio, Chiaro’s
Silvio, the Beppo of Nicis and the mob that
represented the villagers—took the comi-
tragedy in the appropriate moods, forgot
audience for once in a while, and
made a real drama of it. Mirassou was in
voice—at his best he can be thrilling;
Valobra, in her white wig, was as dainty as
a .Dresden-china statuette, and sang as
daintily as she looked ; Granforte revelled in
the clowning; Chiaro made the best of that
rather wooden character Silvio, and Nicis
portrayed a harlequin that was a nice match
for Valobra’s lady-designed-by-Watteau. The
little donkey in the trouper’s cart entered
into the spirit of the thing; sat down and
refused to budge until petted by all the prin-
cipals and half the villagers. The second
scene was one of the most effective stage pic-
tures Her Majesty’s has ever seen, and a
perfect setting for the play and its exotically-
dramatic music. The close continuity of
the. action staved off the apparently unin-
hibitable impulse of the first-nighters to'
applaud after every high note, and Leon-
cavallo, who was almost as talented a play-
wright as he was a composer, had a clear
run. The result was a performance which
appreciably raises the Williamson co’s
average.
# # *
Baa, Baa, Black Sheep,” by lan Hay
P* 9/ Wodehouse, presented by the
Pickwick Theatre Group at Sydney Savoy,
otters scope for character-acting, and the
cast marshalled by producer Winn was well
chosen. . Chickie Buff (Jo Weekes), an
actress, is attached to Osbert Barrington-
Barrington (R. E. G. North). Hugo
Bonson (Dick Pockley) is striving to
win GEnone (Norah Cazabon), a parson’s
daughter. . He prepares a flowery speech
which he intends to make to CEnone, and is
rehearsing it with Chickie when Osbert
wanes in, believes the worst, casts off the
actress and retires furious. To console
LJiickie Hugo takes her to a night club in
„ ® courdyy The place is raided. Hugo
and Chickie make their escape on a motor-
cycle and seek refuge in the home of a
clergyman of Hugo’s acquaintance. This
clergyman is absent; the house at the
moment is inhabited by CEnone’s father. He
and his daughter happen to be out wlien
tne fleeing pair make their entry, which fact
enables them to disguise themselves in
clerical clothes. A procession of callers
embarrasses them, among .them Osbert, with
ins housekeeper (Ethel Gabriel) and her
pert flapper daughter (Ann Hannan),
thnone and her parent return ; policemen come
and place Hugo and Chickie under lock and
a ?t taken up with the
trial of the culprits at the vicarage by a
•J.i., a local squire who is supposed to
have a terrible down on night clubs. But
Muckie knows he hasn t, and the squire knows
she knows, so the case is dismissed. Osbert
regains Chickie, and Hugo clicks with
Uimone. Ethel Gabriel again demonstrated
ner ability to play comic-old-lady parts, and
the rest spoke their lines to good purpose.
Ihe show is to be repeated a few times on
Wednesday evenings.
* *
Sydney Grand Opera House has a new
tenant—the Norman Barrington revue com-
pany. Ivan Marshall makes good use of
his tenor voice, a selection from “II
Irovatore, ’ in which he was partnered
by Kay Denning, bringing him his great-
est applause. Therese Desmond, Mollie
Hughes, Dorothy Rudder and Byle Lamond
sing i songs ranging from the very senti-
mental to the very breezy. Denny Patter-
son and Beryl Ellis wear their dancing-shoes
a trifle thinner to good purpose. Among
the comedians, Norman Barrington, Bertie
Wright and Fred Ford are consistent laugh-
winners.
RECOLLECTIONS OF OPERA.
Top to bottom, left to right: Del Chiaro as Alfio in “Cavalleria”; Evelyn Hall as
Mamma Lucia in “Cavalleria”; Mirassou as Canio in “Pagliaccv”; Alfieri as
Cavaradossi in "Tosco!’; Conductor Aldrovandi; Fiore ‘as the Sacristan in
“Tosca”; Surani as Santuzza in “Cavalleria”; Molly de Gunst as Tosca; Gran-
forte as Baron Scarpia in “Tosca.”
Whatever may be one’s opinion as to the
intrinsic beauty of Galli-Curci’s voice, most
folk are agreed that there is no other in
the world at all like it, and that it is a
very flexible and well-trained organ. It
shows the effects of wear and tear a little in
the upper register as compared with what it
was seven years ago, when Australia last
heard it, but as compensation it is a bit
mellower and more human in the middle of
the scale. At her opening recital in Mel-
bourne Town Hall the singer attempted no
vocalistic tours de force, but confined her-
self to some of the tuneful little things that
hover just outside the repertoire of the most
hackneyed sort. There were sweet nothings
of an exotic flavor by Pergolese, Paisiello
and Donaudy, a Spanish folk-song, the most-
often-heard air from “Dinorah” and some
drawing-room ballads by Aylward and com-
posers of the same class. “Les Filles de
Cadix,” by Delibes, gave the mixture an
extra spice of variety. Husband Homer
Samuels played accompaniments docilely and
was allowed a little flutter on his own
account, and flautist Williams shared in
the Meyerbeer number and tootled a couple
of solos very deftly. The recital didn’t add
much to Melbourne’s musical history, and
the Town Hall was too big for it, from an
acoustic standpoint A better judgment of
the singer’s art could be essayed in such a
hall as the Auditorium, where there are
fewer hollow echoes.
# * *
“Ourselves,” presented by Prof. G. H. C.
Oliphant at Melb. Comedy last week to a
select audience which included the Lieut.-
Gov., turned; out to be neither a lay sermon,
a revivalist oration nor an excez-pt' from the
works of the late Dr. Frank Crane, but an
acid, if graceful, criticism of the present
social system. Prof. Gliphant, a Victorian
who has been earning a living for the past
seven years lecturing America on its sms.
told his evening-dressed audience that the
young are not necessarily wiser than the old,
that the present age is definitely inferior to
the age of ancient Greece, that the men we
call Great are small beer compared with the
great men of former times, that the white
man is dubiously superior to the colored,
that Western domination of the world is a
mushroom thing and that there were several
occasions when the colored man bossed the
white. For full measure he proved, to the
satisfaciion of any fleas that may have been
present, that mankind as a whole is inferior
to the insect world. Revolutionary ideas like
these when uttered in a rude, uncultured voice
on the Yarra Bank have caused a riot before
now, but Prof. Oliphant uttered them in a
soft, mellifluous voice in the elegant environ-
ment of a stage arranged to look like a draw-
ing-room. and they were received with grati-
fied applause. The professor is something
new in virtuosi for the Taits to adopt. He
is not likely- to return the same sized divi-
dend as a Galli-Curci, but he is, a refreshing-
draught for _ those to whom the sources of
his information are not available.
* ¥
Why was Mrs. Carruthers bitten, stabbed,
strangled and left for dead six nights last
week, and at the usual matinees, at the
Palace Theatre, Melbourne? The Bulletin
offers the following reasons: (1) She was
a nasty piece of work, though beautiful. (2)
Her husband had thrown a knife at an
eminent Egyptologist. (3) The Egyptologist
cavorts round in an invalid-chair which
squeaks abominably (ostensibly because it
needs oiling, though a blind horse could see
that the row was caused by a couple of
attachments on the spokes)," and when a
man behaves like that and is an Egypto-
logist he is capable of anything. (4) The
Egyptologist has a poker-playing daughter
who owes Mrs. Carruthers a lot of money.
(5) Her fiance wants a murder for his news-
paper, and newspaper-men will do anything
for a good murder; even commit it. Other
clues are the Egyptologist’s wife, who bites
people s wrists when she sees blue orna-
ments, because they remind her of the blue
houses of the East where girls are lured
to a fate far worse than etc., etc. Then there
are the ueleima and his mysterious Oriental
orchestra, and the Scotland Yard detective,
with comic supplement, who may or may
not be bogus. And what about the Egypto-
logist? He is supposed to be a cripple, yet
he takes a w'alk and leaves his squeaking
chair behind him. Lastly, there are the maid
and/or the butler.
“The Creaking Chair/’ by Allene Tupper
Wikes revised by Roland Pertwee, and
probably revised again, by Nellie Bramley,
is a mystery play with more mysteries, plots,
sub-plots, themes, sub-themes, false scents
and blind alleys than any drama, not
excluding those of the late Edgar, in
this Showman s recollection. By the second
act the original track, if any, is buried five
feet deep m red herrings, but a couple more
barrels are added for full measure. As a
f « r future playwrights to dig plots out
of The Creaking Chair” ought to be in-
valuable. It served as an exercise for the
versatility of Miss Bramley. As the woman
witii the blue-ornament-wrist-biting complex
who is saved from the hells of Port Said,
and doesn’t understand anythin* that is
not on the sex piane, she was inimitable in
the first act but an irrelevance in the others
Austen Milroy, Marguerite Adele, Ronald
Riley and Lee Murray made the most of
their material. Individuality and vitality
even when expended oil lost causes are rare
in the theatre and Miss Bramley ’is receiv-
ing the reward of her virtues in excellent
houses.
¥ * *
Adelaide Repertory has given three
crowded renderings of “Michael and Man-”
a drama of innocent bigamy with touches
of Milne-like fantasy. Don Downey, already
a finished actor of the natural school had
most to do and Beryl Kook supported him
well through the changes (and costumes) of
25 years. The play would be better if shorn
of the ten minutes of talk after the action
is finished. The Rep. is strong in character
actors, and the support was uniformly good
in brief sketches; especially, perhaps* Jack
Ham as the other husband, and Ethelwyn
Robin as a stage landlady. Also the Rep
has discovered, very young, a born comedian
in John Duncan.
¥ & *
Adelaide is waking up for the winter.
Galli-Curci, not quite the voice of old bur
as popular as ever, has been at the Town
Hall with light programmes mainly meant
for the crowd. Sybil Thorndike, with a
strong mixed co., English and young Aus-
tralian, is just starting in Shaw’s “Saint
Joan” at the Royal.
The Palette,
Two Adelaide amateurs have returned
from travel with unusual artistic creations.
Dorothy Lungley specialises in the colored
woodcut, and manages some exquisite shad-
ing. Mrs. Hamer (Heather Hammond) has
beguiled a tea-planting life in Ceylon with
black-and-white work,' fantastic and full of
life—hovering between Beardsley, Norman
Lindsay and S. H. Sime. The Art Gallery of
Adelaide has found each of the ladies worthy
of representation.
Ernest Buckmaster, returned from
Europe, has a show at Melb. Athenieum.
His portraits are photographic in the enorm-
ity of their detail. “Lieut.-Col. F. H. Wright,
V.D.,” is an admirably planned study of
martial strength in a service overcoat, by
a fastidious draughtsman. There is nothihg
mingy about Buckmaster’s English and Swiss
pictures—titanic mountains and profound
valleys.
It was Rodin, that child of Nature, who
said it would do art a world of good if all
previous achievements of the creative mind
were collected in a heap and a match put
to _ them. Then art could start afresh by
going to life _ itself and make its own dis-
coveries. This thought comes to one after
a visit to the loan Collection for charity of
antiques at Rocke’s, Melbourne. The stately
homes of Toorak have disgorged a stagger-
ing array of old English double-beds, lovinal.v
carved, and Chinese Buddhas. The
variety of styles, the orderly running-wild
of decorative fancy, leaves the imagina-
tion stunned rather than stimulated. At the
opening Frank Clarke remarked that in the
old days, although much inferior work was
turned out, as it was to-day, only the best
survived. It is a debatable proposition. It
was practically impossible for a craftsman
of the Gothic age not to make beautiful
things,_ because he was surrounded by beauti-
ful things _of his own generation and was
blissfully ignorant of the beautiful things
wrought by craftsmen of previous great eras.
The Australian craftsman is taught to study
the beautiful creations of the past until his
own imagination is in fetters. Even when
he does make something new and beautiful
it is immediately standardised and produced
in factories by mass methods. If Rodin
had known what modern industry would do
to the artistic faculty he would have wanted
a place for the machine on his bonfire.
“Cine Ma”: The spirit of economy is
having its effect on the movie palaces. At
one in Melbourne the conductor now plays
the saxophone, directing his musicians with
his knees.
“Cine Ma”: One of the reasons why the
talkies in Australia are what they are is the
character of the people in charge. The legi-
timate stage is run by entrepreneurs, who at
least have the intelligence to recognise the
nature of the goods they purvey. When the
movie taipans get a picture into their hands
which is above the intellectual average of
its kind they seldom know what to do with
it. The German talkie “Blue Angel,” starring
that consummate actor Jannings, is a case in
point. If a pieturegoer were to judge by
the screaming advts. he would come to the
conclusion that it was only another example
of Hollywood pornography. The producers
could not resist the temptation to emphasise
the unimportant part played by Marlene
Dietrich, in preference to the vital share of
the male star. Evil communications have
corrupted good manners nowhere so much as
in the talkie trade.
“Say Bo”: At a preview of a talkie on a
recent Sunday evening, Melbourne Capitol
staged the most convincing demonstration of
the musical taste of the Queen City of the
South ever presented. The Melbourne String
Quartette, consisting of Reginald Bradley,
Mischa Kogan, Elford Mack and Stempin-
ski—a combination, by the way, which
Kubelik declared to be as good as any he
had heard anywhere—had rehearsed the
Borodine quartette and a Beethoven quar-
tette for months, and they were performed
as a prelude to the picture. The audience
listened patiently to Mr. Borodine, but after
20 bars of Beethoven the storm burst over
the heads of the unfortunate musicians. It
began with a few sarcastic handclaps, which
swelled to an uproar of protest. The leader
tried to brave the tempest, but his confreres
broke and ran. Two escaped with a fair
appearance of. preserving their dignity, but
one, not noticing that the screen had been
lowered in the meantime, tried to break
through the obstruction, much in the manner
of a blowfly through a window-pane. This
put the crowd in high good humor, and
it turned to the real .business of the evening
with an exalted feeling of having justified
itself. No doubt the management has come
to the conclusion that there is a time and
place for everything.


- ?* j*J *6
1 ..W
’■fet' -' •’;•• '•• , zL+£ZrSs'Z-': ■" v . •*..*• •*•.• ;..•
; :V ’
,V •*'-/■'.
< '■EKj&S v-
-«S^-
;-v
s- < .
*,xc
>' .v
rov:/,Vt-< -: •
* :
M
1
i
£.;^ ; -'' •#• ■' .:■ %• ;
S&|A .-.* $
Q&iSfer. : .-\ '■?~r~r-.'‘<‘*f: : - & s' " * J • ;V -f •*. •
€
8k
SB
&&L
*®Vo?Hs.
mSM
-.yjs
: H gsExffiHi
• ' v -V .*
»\ ■
'■yro
m
m
w
m.
l''L
\^m
m-
-4_
m
f
r j /# \ r \ /:;
«r:
N
m
mp
m
&
' : -‘. «K
m
« i
gia®
4? J'%
«ESgK?H
wxhsi?
#*k .• • •
;.*V 4-1
>*'
tipt
;; ttiii®
CjiuiUi
on all counts.
Lang Rule has been convicted of a number of the worst political acts in the history of the Common-
wealth. Lang Rule never considered the State nor the People. It stood for in cas
and kind to its own Party and crowds of Agitators and Communists who comprise its “hangers-on.
Lang Rule is the Rule of the “Push”—a Rule of Terrorism and Strife as a smoke-screen to cover up
its objective—a Dictatorship of New South Wales by “Red” Revolutionaries of the Trades Hall, it
subsidised Communist newspapers with Government money, and its administration shrieked of Bribery
and Corruption.
Lang deliberately smashed the Premiers’ Agreement, which would have saved New South
Wales and prevented misery. He broke and defied Commonwealth Laws, and brought disruption an
suffering.
Lang Rule made the name of New South Wales hated throughout Australia and despised through-
out the world. It deliberately prevented the granting of financial assistance that would have been the
salvation of the State.
With £1,250,000 in the State Treasury Lang deliberately withheld Pensions, Child Endowment
and Superannuation to make electioneering propaganda.
It passed a 10% Mortgage Tax Bill for the purpose of confiscating funds of Insurance Com-
panies and Banks, which, in turn, would have destroyed the bonuses and securities of every Life
Insurance Policy in New South Wales.
Its proposal to issue £21,000,000 in debentures and to “mortgage the future prosperity of the
workers” would utterly destroy the value of wages throughout the State.
Lang’s violent abuse and charges of dishonesty against highly-respected Courts of Law and Aus-
tralian Judges represent the most disgraceful utterances in Australian political history.
Being convicted on all these counts, Lang Rule must go. Lang must never rule again. Honest
Government is the only Government that will save New South Wales.
Work and Vote for
UNITED AUSTRALIA
PARTY CANDIDATES
Give second preference in country
electorates to U.C.P.
You must number all candidates in
the order of your choice.
Authorised by H. W. Horsfield, 1 5 Bligh Street, Sydney.


ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, yN. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia'and the Worlfl, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for th§ transaction of .all general banking business.
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and tor cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. ... .. .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000 ..
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Uramao”: A nurse on opening the sur-
gery door of a hospital in North Otago
i.M.L.) the other day found a terrier with
a severe gash in one of its paws sitting on
the doormat. It was taken into the sur-
geon, -who kindly put several stitches into
the wound. The dog was then bowed out,
after an entry had been made: “Fox-terrier,
six stitches in hind paw. Case not danger-
ous.” Observation of the terrier, which
curled up on the doormat to consider the
line of treatment, revealed that it had no
confidence in the surgeon. It tore out the
stitches and trotted away.
THE OTHER WAY OF LOOKING AT IT.
"Don’t you feel cheap being made to become old Ako's fourth wife?”
“Darling, how quaint your ideas are! What it shows is that even three wives couldn’t
hold Ako back once he had seen me!”
“Bogaduek”: The champion walker who
beat McGinty (B. 4/5/’32) reminds me of
the first time I went shearing. Mounted on
a bike with massive frame, carriers fore
and aft for water-can and swags, and big
tyres, I set off in company with Dan, an
old hand at the game, who rode an even
heavier machine. Shortly after we left Port
Augusta two lads on racing cycles overtook
us, and, after informing us that, they were
rouseabouts bound for the same station, they
waxed scornful on the subject of our mas-
sive grids. Dan snapped: “A fiver we’re at
Narriderri before yous.” They took him on,
and went scorching off on the smooth lime-
stone track. But Dan knew what lay ahead.
Twenty miles farther on we ran into “bindy-
eye” country, and soon overtook the racers,
with all their tyres flat.. They besought, the
loan of patches, as all their own were used
up, but Dan, with a scornful “See yous
later,” pedalled past at a steady 10 m.p.li.,
with the bits of dog-chain across the forks
of his bike knocking off the prickles as
fast as they were picked up. I followed,
with pieces of thick leather inside my tyres
to defeat those same prickles. We arrived
at our destination the following night. The
racers didn’t turn up till noon the. following
day.
“FY7” : A young dairy-farmer on the Dain-
tree River in North Q'land sliot a white
cockatoo and put the butt of his double-
barrelled gun on the bird to hold it down.
The dying bird clutched at the trigger and
the contents of the second barrel went
through the unfortunate lad, mortally wound-
ing him. This true incident recalls a fictitious
one depicted by Frost in “Harper’s.” A
hunter is being hugged by a bear, his rifle
lying on the ground beside him. The man’s
frantic dog/fastened to him by a leash/fouls,
the rifle trigger with his foot and shoots the
bear. The “strip” closes with the hunter
giving his friends in the club a graphic de-
scription of liow he slew the grizzly single-'
handed, his dog regarding him, meanwhile,
with a dubious expression.
,* * *
“Yarcoo”: We were breaking-in up
Emerald (Q.) way, in the pear country, and
■ one day my cobber, Brigalow George, some-
how'got the rope half-hitched round his wrist
and was dragged neck and crop through ..the
pear. When I picked him up he _was .grand-
father to,a porcupine, the soles of his feet
being the only spot free from prickles. I
gave /him , a stiff ’un at the pub to loosen
the spines and set to work pulling them out.
I had got most of a barrow-load out when
George says sudden: “Gripes, ain’t, it to-day
the Rockhampton carnival express goes
through?” "Too right!” the s.m. tells him;
“due- in half an hour.” “Get the soldering-
kit quick, and stick the iron in the fire,”
George says. “There’s just time to fix it.”
We thought he was dilly, but he soon showed
us lie wasn’t, and wdien the express whistled
we’d almost finished. As she pulled up at
the tank George was strolling the platform
naked except for a dingo skin hung artistic
like round his ribs, and sparklin’ in the sun
like a jeweller’s shop. Every spine was topped
off with a silver head made of a drop of
solder. The passengers crowded the windows
in hundreds to look at him, and when George
sings out, “Who’ll buy? Souvenir pins out
of the Human Pincushion !” you ought to
have seen the rush. The “souvenir pins”
sold like hot pies. When the . train pulled
out we, had a hat full to the brim with the
needful, and George was plucked as bare as
a nigger’s dog with the mange.
* * * *
“Wandi” : I have seen dozens of trees that
were struck by lightning, and they were
always hard-
woods, princi-
pally gums and
i ro nbarks. An
old busliman said
to me: “When
there’s dangerous
lightning about I
get under a soft-
wood that’s got a
good bushy top,
or alongside a log.
The dazzler likes
something hard
to smack at, but
I’ve never known
a log to be hit,
yet.” Binghi of
the mid-eastern
regions alw a ys
made a beeline for
a wild apple-tree
(A n g o p h ora),
which, he said,
was the only dry-
forest tree that
lightning was
never knowrn to
strike. Besides
the evidence of
the oldest blacks,
he had the
ancient lore of
the tribe to back
up . that state-
ment. Binghi had
a■' great respect,
for the tree that
protected him .
and I have seen
it left on station-
runs, in com-
pliance with his
wishes, when all
other trees
around were ring-
barked. It makes
a fine shade, for
one thing, and has
beautiful, honey-
sweet flowers;
but birds do not
frequent it, and
the ’possum and
goanna will always pass it even when hard
pressed. The rough outer bark easily breaks
off in bits, and that may be their reason
for shunning it.
* * *
“Murrungurry”: It’s hard to knock the
old superstitions out of Binghi, even when
he has been all his lifetime among white
people. A conspicuous
object on Cooper’s
Creek (Q.) a few
years ago was the
grave of a rainmaker,
who had died with a
gr.udge’ against his
tribe and cursed them
waterless. It was
covered with a big
pile ,of wood. The
drought came—as it
does v periodically—
the fish disappeared
from the creek, and
kangaroos, emus and
other game migrated
to neighboring towris
where the hunters
weren’t allowed to go.
The incensed tribes-
men wanted -to drag
the body from the
grave and heave it into
a mudhole to make
the vengeful spirit,
which they imagined
was jeering and
laughing at them, lift
the. spell, but the
magician’s father, a
well-built and well-
conditioned old man,
kept tireless vigil over
the .woodpile. When
anybody was about
lie stood by it/lean-
ing on ; .a thick .gum.
stick. The chosen
avengers watched from
the timber, and it. was
often - necessary- 'for,
the patriarch’s aged
gin to bring him food and Water. Meanwhile,
the new meteorologist, armed with black
cockatoo'feathers and, other magic appurten-,
ances, was endeavoring to overcome the evil
influence of the spirit.' At. last he succeeded.
A record flood came and drowned him. Then,
recognising some merit in Dad Binghi, and
to appease the wrath of the dead son, whom
they blamed for the death of his successor,
they appointed the old fellow rainmaker.
‘Old Q. : Looking at some photographs
of the new Brisbane, with its fine modern
buildings, I couldn’t help but think of the
sight it presented after the 1893 floods, which
put the city back for a generation. That dis-
aster might have been much worse but for a
ride which has long been forgotten. AVhen the
telegraph lines went, H. I*. Somerset, of
HIS REQUIREMENTS.
“he's see. There in awnly one moore thing I do want, an’ tha’s two
shovel-andles.”
Camboombah, in the ranges, where the flood-
gauges were, found that after an apparent
fall the river was rising more rapidly than
before. H’e resolved to send a horseman
across the D’Aguilar range to North Pine,
where tin; wire still ran to Brisbane. After
the horses had been swum across the flooded
river one broke away, so Billy Mateet, the
messenger, set off on one. He reached the
telegraph line, and Brisbane, warned of the
second visitation, had time to take special
precautions and minimise the danger to life
and property.
* * * *
“O.W. Waireki” : Hori, holidaying in the
city, was approached by a stranger who
begged for a shilling, saying he had
spent the last three nights at a doss-house.
“You show me t-’at house, I kive you half
a crown,” said Hori eagerly; and the
stranger, though he wondered what the
native was driving at, obeyed. Marching in,
Hori approached the proprietor. “I just
drop; in for a game,” he announced, beaming
like a full moon. “Game?” echoed the man.
“What game?” “Te two-u,p game, of
course,” replied Hori. “This prace a toss-
house, isn’t he?” ' .
- ■ * -f * *
“Ke11.8.” : I’ll admit to “Ex-Cavalryipan”
(B. 4/5/’32) that all I know of his kind
has been gleaned from those I have seen
holidaying on stations and his own admis-
sions.. As for Fillis, the idea of telling me
to read his book for instruction fills me with
scorn and a yearning to put up the money
for a competition to test any . Fillis disciple
whom “Ex-C.” can dig up in any pact of
the world. I learnt more in one minute
listening to Lance Skuthorp : than I did
in reading the whole of Fillis’s book, as the
latter’s ideas and practices are based on
rotten principles. If I found Fillis teaching
a horse to canter backwards I would ask
an Australian magistrate to sentence him to
imprisonment without a fine, and would call
veterinary authorities to bear witness ;that
only by cruelly violating the beast’s natural
instincts and wickedly'perverting them could
a horse be induced to canter backwards.
Only one with “Ex-C.’s” conception* of
horsemanship would see anything even clever
in such a fool trick. I’ve known some of
the most stupid housebreakers do it—much
to-the disgust of the station-owners. Let
me add one admission. Some of the cleverest
horsemen ride with their feet “well home”
—because they learnt it from their English
fathers —but that does not make it any less
an unfortunate habit.
THE DISTANT FIELDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 wonder in what land they lie, those fields
the old chaps know
And love to tell the lads about: Broad Arrow
and The Blow,
Maninga Marley, Laverton, Goongarrie—
each a spot
That charms the old prospectors yet, but
moves and draws me not.
I’ve seen the fleeting loveliness of those far-
, .spreading plains
The miles of blossoms following the long-
awaited rains;
Glad mornings when the desert air came
fresh and cool and sweet;
But most of- all do I recall the dust and flies
; and heat.
Yes/, places that the old men name to me are
■ too well known.
I’ve seen the, suffocating dust from many
.shakers 'blown.
Were these men made of finer clay? Did
they find more than I?
See-soffiething/in that sun-scorched land that
I could not espy? .
I |fonder in what land they lie—-and yet.
I think I know
Where lie these golden fields to which the
old men long to'go.
Perhaps my charting’s faulty, but I reckon
| them to be 1
Midway between the . land of fact and that
of fantasy. ,
V.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


WOODS GREAT
PEPPERMINT
CURE
For Coughs, Colds and
Influenza.
Sold Everywhere.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains, everything a woman needs to know.
Plum Razor Guard
sdf
sdf
sdf
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and iin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
U/>e PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets,- Seven Razors in Oak Case—
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/.
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—Jin. and Jin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed
CRAIG & AITKEN,
and kept in order for two years free of charge.
654 George Street, Sydney.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1860.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 306 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEOROE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. . . ..£1,260,000
Reserve Fund . . . . .... 1,000,000
£2;,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. T,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted. _
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
“Glyn Dwr": A strange fish heaved it-
self to the surface alongside the fishing
smack Myth off- Codfish Island the .other day,
and the remains are now 7 awaiting identifica-
tion at Stewart Island (MX.). Slatish grey
in color, with very large eyes, a toothless
mouth that : resembles a duck’s bill, a 2ft.
dorsgl fin and a tail like that of a whale, it
measured 10ft. in length. 4ft. in breadth and
sft. in depth. Southern fishermen say they’ve
never seen its like before.'
* * * *
“Naturalist”: Re malaria-prevention mon-
opoly (B. (!/4/’32). Australia has a native
cinchona (Alstonia constricta), which should
provide all the quinine we need. The tree
abounds in some parts of the Queensland
coast, and thrives to such an extent that it
is considered a serious pest by farmers and
others. It is a rapid grower, and attains
a size to yield a commercial bark in less
than 20 years. A few years back the writer
received an order from a London drug store
for a parcel of bark, probably required for
experimental purposes. Our tree is not sup-
HE'D DO WHAT HE COULD.
ANGUS: “Will ye no forgie me, feither, and alter your weel?"
McTAGGART: “I canna break ma wurrd, Angus; but gin ye gang to the kirk yaird twa
days after ma buryin', I'll try to drop ye doon ma goolden croon.”
•posed to contain as high a quinine content
as the South American tree; but so long as
the quality is there this should not matter.
Hundreds and hundreds of tons of this bark
are destroyed every year in the course of
land-clearing, which is a tragedy. The bark
is easy to remove from the standing tree,
and it dries fairly quickly.
“Toggle”: It would be in-
teresting to find out the
number of ships’ logs of the
patent variety whic li are
annually rendered useless by
deluded fish. The revolving
brass gadget which traifk
astern of the ship at the end
of a stout line is a fairly ex-
pensive article, and the cost of
these indigestible meals for
hungry fish must amount to a
large sum. A steamer w 7 hich
arrived in Sydney the other daj 7
found on hauling her log aboard
that a big fish had attempted
to chew it, but had given it up
in disgust, for the brass was
deeply indented with tooth-
marks. Pacific fish are the chief
offenders, most of the damage
being done by the giant
mackerels, winch feed on the
surface. In the Pacific Islands
these big felhnvs can be caught
without trouble on a trailing
hook draped with red and white
rag, and most island craft keep
one dragging astern to replenish
the larder.
“Wandi”: Lead-pencils are
being made here, but it is said
that no suitable wood has been
found. ; The main requirements
are a straight grain and a soft
wood that will cut easily and
cleanly all round. The timber
chiefly used by manufacturers is
called pencil. cedar. We have
two or three different trees that
are known by- the same name,
from their resemblance to the
real article. Others, whose
appearance invites experiment,
are red crow r sfoot elm, red beech
artd Salter’s" cedar.
“Centurion”: Borne time ago The Bulle-
tin chronicled the brave conduct of two
Papuan natives, rescuers of the wife of
a Government official who lost his life wdien
their launch capsized in a gale. So heroic
w 7 as the feat —it involved many hours of
swimming and supporting their charge—
that the white inhabitants of Papua sub-
scribed to a fund for rewarding the two
natives, and on Governor Hubert Murray’s
recommendation Lloyds awarded them their
silver and bronze medals for saving life at
sea. Igua Kevau and Gari Dai were their
names. The bestowal of the money naturally
aroused envy. It w 7 as soon bruited that the
native sorcerers had- taken offence—possibly
THE BOTTOM RUNG.
JACKY: “I fallem from the toy."
DAD: “Well, yer muster broke yer fall somewheres.”
JACKY : “Mine tinkit I broke everyting.”
they demanded a share. By the time the
medals had arrived for presentation Igua
Kevau lay sick to death. The white man’s
doctor said it was a case of double pneu-
monia. The natives whispered among them-
selves that it was pourri-pourri, and Igua
Kevau, quite satisfied in his own mind that
this was the cause of his trouble, gave up the
ghost after the manner of his. kind. In, due
course the Governor presented Lloyds’ medals,
one to; the living 'Gari Dai and the other to
Igua Kevau’s widow for their .son. The father
of Gari Dai expressed .the feeling of the big
gathering. He admitted the pride of him-
self and his friends; in.,the distinctions won.
But he added that this had * aroused the’
enmity of the sorcerers. They had slain
Igua Kevau; a strong man, like him could
not have died'but by the powers of dark-
ness ; and he feared that his own son,
Gari Dai, would •be sent the same, road
by the magicians. The widow of Igua
Kevau complained that she also anti-
cipated the death 'of the child. _ Gov.'
Murray has done-his best to save Gari Dai
by shipping him as, a seaman on board the
Government ; yacht, “as the sorcerers are
supposed to be powerless on a Government
ship.” He adds : “We may be able to save
his life, but he looks very ill.” . ■„
, ; # i'fi ❖ sji
“Brast”: The ' abo. gum-leaf band' at
La ; Perouse (N.S.W.) will. have to look
to its laurels. - Two members of the Man-,
dated- fjlew Guinea ’Lutheran Mission who are
in• Sydney at present- 'hue telling of a - conch-
shbll ••band : nf'2s-rriative performers who can
play European hymns' and other music ,on
conch6s. of varying i sizes and ? pitches,' Which
it has taken years to collect. Anyone who
has. heard the conch used for signalling-in
New 7 Guinea and Papua, or in the Hindu
temples of India, will: realise its possibilities
as'a musical instrument, and appreciate, the
years of labor spent in the. selection of shells
giving, just the right pitch. , , . .
* * . *
“Freeman Sariddm” : The tidal mudflats, in
Trinity Bay (Cairns, N.'Q.) are the scene
of unceasing warfare between the mangroves
and the sea. The mangroves cast their seeds
upon the waters. Popularly called “divers,”
cigar-shaped, dark-green, eight inches or so
long, they float in a vertical position, the
top level with the surface, the rooting end
searching for a hold in the soft mud. When
the tide ebbs some are in the right position
and succeed. Presently a marine forest
springs up, becomes denser year by year,
mud is washed in and the roots retain it.
The mangroves have gained ground—a strip
a mile long and two or three chains wide.-
But Davy Jones’s locker contains many
tricks. The sea has amusedly watched the
building efforts. In his ow 7 n good time he
brings out one little trick: a storm. Giant
rollers sweep in over the flat, heaping un-
countable millions of sand particles against
the roots. A sandbank is formed and the
mangroves die. The labor of years is as
nothing. And the sea has another trick in
its repertoire. A heavy swell from just
the right angle, a judicious placing of shoals,
a clever manipulation of tide and currents,
and presto! a long strip of sandbank is
driven into the heart of the mangrove swamp
a quarter of a mile from the outer edge. So
the war rages. The mangroves build, the
sea destroys—and slowly drives the enemy
back. An old aborigine swears that the man-
groves “stop long way out” when he was a
piccaninny, and his father’s father told his
father, who told him: “One time flat alto-
gether one mile, two mile out belong along
mangroves.”
* ''f ❖
“Tidapa”: “Larrapinta’s” octopus (B.
20/4/’32) must have been the father of all
Australian octopodes, and it was unfortunate
that such a magnificent specimen should have
found its way into the bait sack. Any of
Australia’s big museums would have paid
handsomely for a creature up to “Larra-
pinta’s” specifications. Up to the present, the
biggest octopus reported in Australian waters
has had tentacles just short of 4ft. long, and
a body about the,size of a football. I have seen
many big specimens on the Cocos Islands, but
I have never - seen a. live octopus With ten-
tacles longer than. 6ft., though parts of
tentacles walshed up on the Barrier Reef must
have belonged to much larger creatures. The
Malays, who turn . the . smaller ones inside-
out with their hands, nevertheless -exhibit
caution when dealing with an octopus of
any size. They are afraid of the suckers,
which are .capable of exerting terrific power.
As regards the toughness of the octopus, if
the tentacle is stretched tight and the wiejder
has a knife with • a razor-edge it is not diffi-
cult to sever the arms, but otherwise it is a
hard and lengthy job.
“Nux V.”: Now • that the Queensland
Dingo Destruction Boards are things of, the
past, dogs have increased out of hand.
An ingenious private-enterprise scheme for
their destruction is being employed in the
Dawson River country. The originator,
Victor Bell, of Camboon, recently circu-
larised all his neighbors within a 50-milo
radius, outlining a systematic poisoning
campaign. Each landholder is to lay 10
baits for every 100 head of cattle, those who
have not got their country fully stocked up
to pay particular attention to their unoccu-
pied territory. The scheme is to be perse-
vered with until the middle of June, -when
a pow-wow to consider results and future
action will be held.
THE RICE COMES ROLLING IN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The header’s drone is blending with
The engine’s rhythmic beat;
It’s music to the farmer’s ears—
No other half as sweet;
And w r e must fill up tank and sump,
And tighten clamp and pin;
The; race is, to the strong and swift
When rice comes rolling in.
We’re working fourteen hours a day
While skies are clear and blue;
No harvest heavier than ours
From China to Peru;
The sheds. in; which' we store our .spoil
Are bulging, bin on bin ;
And still from, early dawn till dusk
The rice comes rolling in.
With mudguards grinding on the wheels
(For we must overload),
A roaring, throbbing cavalcade
Wind •in • and Put ; the road :
Begrimed with dust and splashed with mud
They plunge-through thick and thin;
No slow and even wheat-horse gait.
When rice comes rolling in !
Bo draw aside, ye bullock teams,
Give us the right of way!
For we must get the harvest in:
Five hundred tons a day.
The weighbridge clerks are speeding up
Amidst the dust and din,
As to the tune of honking horns
The rice comes rolling in.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
{Opp. Railway Station'),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Baths
33
?* 1?
II iii
its
Melbourne’s Most Modern Hotel.
Tariff per day:
Room and meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from 12/6
AGENCIES
A valuable feature of the Commonwealth Savings Bank service
is the establishment of agencies in practically all Post Offices
in Australia, as well as in many business houses. Altogether
there are nearly 5000 of these agencies in the Commonwealth,
from which it will be readily seen that the Bank’s service is
extended wherever there is population.
In every city, town and district, therefore, Savings Bank
facilities are available to men, women and children, for the
Savings Account may be used by all.
Wherever you may live, wherever you may travel within the
Commonwealth, you can utilise the Savings Account for your
profit and convenience.
Cbmmonwcaltl) Bavto lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
SMOKE-OH!
Anyone want a loan of our radio till after
June 11?
.y. ,y.
Langites will find it a greasy poll.
•X*
The Disarmament Conference seems to be
"going” great guns.
y y
“Jock Garden and family are getting £4O a week
cut of Langism.” —Coleman at Auburn.
So Garden is Right, too.
•V *
“Nott-Pretty.—At the Methodist Church, Glen-
huntly, Bernice Pretty to Robert Nott.” — “Argun.”
She was Pretty, now she’s Nott.
* *
FEMININE CHAMPIONS.
“Women are doing well in every branch of
athletics.” — “Sportsman.”
True, they have put up notable perform-
ances in running through bank accounts,
jumping to conclusions, skipping off, draw-
ing the long bow, springing surprises and
throwing their weight about —but. perhaps
the most profitable to themselves have been
some of their Leap Year leaps.
“Did your wife accept you the first time you proposed?”
“From what I’ve heard since, I gather she’d accepted me six months before.”
MENU.
Dinner to be consumed at Sydney Trades Hall or.
Saturday, June IX.
Soup:
Hell’s Broth a, la Billy Hughes.
Fish:
New Guard-fish.
Entrees:
Tinned Hares. Jugged Crooks.
Poultry:
Basted Gosling, with Stuffing Knocked Out
of Him.
Sweet:
Anti-Britisli Cabinet Pudding—Red Sauce.
Dessert:
Sour grapes.
Russian Cigarettes.
Drinks:
Punch (Campbell’s “In the Nose” Brand).
Vodka.
¥ #
“CARMEN.”
(A Right-thinking Talkie Critic Does the
Opera.)
What the Common wealth censor was about
when he passed this vulgar drama of un-
bridled lust and callous crime we find it hard
to imagine. The story—save the mark! —
is concerned with the amorous adventures
of a lascivious cabaret-dancer, Carmen by
name. We first see her exercising her low
wiles on an officer, and hence, presumably,
a gentleman—one Don Jose. We had occa-
sion recently to animadvert in no uncertain
terms on the final close-up of “Shanghai
Express,” which showed Mr. Clive Brook —
as holder of a commission in the li.A.M.C.
itself, forsooth! —clasping Miss Marlene
Dietrich to his breast in a public street.
Far more blameworthy is the action of the
producer of this drama, who not once, but over
and over again, permits his stars to give rein
to the common streak in their natures by
embracing con amore and coram populo.
The scene in Seville-square, where Carmen
rushes into the midst of the crowd, mauls
Don Jose about (one can use no polite"
term), and eventually causes the wretched
man to forget his breeding, upbringing and
military rank, and respond to her shameless
advances, while the populace listen atten-
tively to their unedifying exchanges, is one
that should never have been permitted in a
British community.
To realise the fantastic unreality of such
goings-on—their inherent falsity to life and
human nature—we have merely to picture
them in progress in Berkeley-squarc, Lon-
don, or Queen’s-square, Sydney. And to
think that such travesties on the manners
and customs of the white races arc being wit-
nessed by the untutored and potentially
Bolshevik races of India! The action ends
in a sordid and inartistic welter of blood
reminiscent of “The Big House,” “Hamlet,”
“King Lear,” etc. Signora Cascara was well
cast in the name-part, though her' weight,
which must be in the neighborhood of 20
stone, mitigated against the atmosphere of
skittishness which she insisted, misguidedly,
on imparting to her rendering. Signor Hor-
ribili is alleged to have appeared in the
original performance of this farrago of
pornographic trash in 1575. One can only
say that he looks it.
In the audience were Mr. and Mrs.
“Spike’’ Hooligan, of Surry Hills; Miss
Aggie Mullet, Darlinghurst’s '“Snow” Queen ;
Mr. “Darkie” Bloomer (back in town after
six months at Long Bay), and many other
underworld lovers of the lower forms of sex-
drama.
D.
* *
Lang messed up Numbers (in fact, mil-
lions), but was all right at Exodus.
* *
“Mr. Scullin howled down.”
It’s known as the Lung Plan.
* *
THE HERO.
“John McLean, 68, an old identity at the City
Court, achieved the distinction to-day of being the
first man convicted for having praised somebody.
He praised Mr. Lang.” —Melbourne “Herald.”
On John McLean no laurel was bestowed.
Of him no bard in lyric numbers sang,
Though eager courage in his bosom glowed,
The jaundiced Law decried his daring code,
And gave it to him hot for praising Lang.
N. 0.
“Tlie truth regarding China is being glossed
over.”
In short, Japanned.
V. A»
“One of the dyer’s employees gave evidence that
the prices charged had been scandalous, but it was
not his place to object.”
His but to do and dye.
* *
CLIMAX.
“Engulfed in the surging flood of suppressed
desires —stifled impulses—secret hopes!”
—Talkie blurb.
“Dearest,” he choked emotionally as he
swam, breast-stroke, through an ecstatic
flood of arrested cravings, “I worship, I
adore you!” Suddenly stifling in a lava-
lake of inhibited passion, he got it out as
he went down for the third time: “Will you
marry me?”
“Too right I will, big boy!” she yelled,
and took a header into the swirling torrent.
Together they sank, swooning, engulfed in a
broiling whirlpool of stark desire.
FOR ANGLERS.
Before setting out make sure the Thing
is in the bag. Biting stoppers off bottles
injures the teeth.
Having arrived at the fishing-ground, un-
wind 100 yards of line in bottom of boat.
After baiting, stand up and whirl sinker
and hook around head in increasing circles,
keeping eye on spot (about SO yards out) to
which you want to cast. Heave out as far
as possible. You will notice that it has
gone about three yards, and that you are
standing on the line. Haul in and repeat.
This time it will go
about five yards. Un-
wind from rowlock
and haul in again.
Half an hour will
now be allowed for
unravelling. When
vocabulary is ex-
hausted, snap line
and tie. Gently
drop line, which has
now shrunk to about
30 yards, oyer the
side, which is what
you should have done
at first.
To distinguish a
catfish from a snap-
per, feel around
mouth for whiskers.
A sharp nip in
thumb will indicate
that your catch isn’t
a snapper.
When one of your
fellow-anglers is cast-
ing out keep your
head well down until
you hear a curse and
a thud as li*- falls
over the seat. You
will then feel an
agonising sting in
the ear. The larger the hook, the worse
the sting.
If day is warm and fish aren’t biting, put
the two-days-old prawns and mullet-gut to
windward in the sun and settle down. You
will find the effect medicinal.
When demonstrating the length of the one
that got away, keep sitting. Violation of
this rule has been responsible for many a
boating fatality.
When the day’s fishing is over, drink up.
get out money and pull over to where the
professional fishermen are cleaning their haul.
S. W. K.
“The doctor told vie a year ago 1 must stop
smoking cigarettes or I should become
feeble-minded.”
“Well! Why didn’t you?”
BUST!
“The balance of 600 2s. Lang busts are on sale at
the Trades Hall at a reduced figure.”
The crisis tolls the knell of Trades Hall
sway.
Jock in his limousine drives home to tea :
Lang to the hustings makes his angry way,
And leaves his Deficit for you and me.
Perhaps in some neglected spot is laid
A Childs report, all anti-New Guard fire.
Or license a tin-hare ramp might have swayed
And stirred to ecstasy the Auburn lyre.
Can loud-voiced lies or any two-bob bust
Back to the banks recall our vanished
cash ?
Can Donald’s voice provide a single crust?
Or call this any other than a crash?
GAD.
CRIME OF CRIMES.
I reckon it’s a dreadful thing to poison
anybody’s beer. I ain’t a wowser or a nark;
to stiffen someone in a park, or clout a cove
be’ind the ear —such goings on I’ve oft-times
seen, but dope a fellow’s beer! It’s mean!
On slittin’ conks I ain’t too keen....
it ain’t no pastime fer a gent. _ A
man ’oo kills ’is wife is lagged quite right-
“Rachel, mein tear, the doctor says you haf a sporting chance
of recovery. I haf paid der premium on your life insurance
to-day, so ve must make der best of things if der vorst
comes to der vorst!”
ful —yet she may ’ave nagged, and made ’is
life not worth a cent. There’s no soft word,
though, for the bloke ’oo poisons beer. That
ain’t no joke!
Fer chaps ’oo merely rob a bank and shoot
the coot ’oo interferes, a man may ’ave a
lot of time. It seems a nat’ral sort of crime.
But it’s a terrible ideer ter poison anybody’s
beer!
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
VITALITY.
“The young woman clerk of 18 or 19 has an
extraordinary amount of vitality.... Most of them,
thank God, get married at the end of seven or eight
years of service.”— General-Manager Burn, of the
Prudential Assurance Co.
“Ah, here you are, Miss Butterscotch!
Do you. know it’s ten o’clock?”
“Really!” she gurgled. “I’d no idea. I’ve
been playing golf, and you know how the
time slips away!”
“I do.”
“Which reminds me, I want you to be
positively ducky and let me off an hour
earlier to-day. My boy friend”
“That will do. Miss Butterscotch ; kindly
park your headgear and get busy.”
“Righty oh!” and she tripped off to the
rest-room.
“Such vitality!” murmured the managing
clerk.
(The attached stars denote the lapse of
five hours.)
“Beg pardon, Miss Butterscotch,” said
the boss, “sorry to interrupt your dry-
cleaning activities, but please put down that
shammy and listen to me.”
“But it’s 3.5, and you promised to let me
off at three. Tooraloo !”
As she vanished the boss swore and then,
“Hi, Mr. Footer!” he yelled.
The managing clerk sprang to attention.
“Listen to this,” seethed the boss. “She’s
been correcting my English! In a most im-
portant letter to old Bowles she has typed
‘divine rat’ for ‘divine art.’ I dictated: ‘We
are suffering from political broils,’ and she
has made it ‘boils.’ She has turned ‘bowls’
into ‘fowls,’ like a damned conjurer, and
‘dormant’ into ‘doormat.’ How do you
account for these devastating errors in one
single letter, Footer?”
“Too much vitality, sir. Far too much
vitality.”
NORRELL.
HIS PRINCIPLE.
“Mr. V. Cleary pointed out that Mr. Bavin lost
the 1930 elections by being honest, which was
political suicide.”— “Sun.”
No doubt the time will come one day
When to defeat I’ll have to bend
And, unth the dole in sight, make way
For someone else - but God forfend
That suicide should be my end!
So if I’m called upon to lie,
To lie I’ll readily agree.
Who wants to tell the truth and die?
No one shall say, concerning me:
“The verdict was felo de se.”
In each successive party row
I’ll twist and turn, as Pink or Red
(A feat I can perform by now
On, as the saying goes, my head )
And die, if die I must, in bed.
J.


J
lA
6
n
My Dear
Fellow Countrymen:
There are two false notions in regard to the Sugar Industry that many people
hold, and I want to correct them.
The first false notion is that the Sugar Industry receives a bounty from the
Commonwealth. A man (with his eyes blazing) told me yesterday that the
Commonwealth Government paid a bounty of three million pounds to the
Sugar Grower annually, and that he thought it was iniquitous. I felt like
shaking him for a fool, for the truth is that the Commonwealth pays a bounty
to nobody in the Sugar Industry; neither to the Company, nor to the Grower,
nor to anyone else.
All that the Commonwealth Government has done for the industry is to put
an embargo on the importation of sugar, just as it has put an embargo on the
importation of cheese, dried fruits, oranges and lemons, wines, jams and
jellies, blankets and rugs, and a prohibitive duty on butter, and on other
products of the Southern States. Why is this protection a blessing when
applied to a Southern product and an iniquity when applied to sugar grown
in New South Wales or Queensland?
The second false notion is that somebody is getting “an enormous rake off“
(meaning that somebody is getting fat out of the price that is charged for
sugar). Happily we have official figures to show how the price is made up.
Here they are:— p ence , b
RETAIL GROCERS 0.5
CONCESSIONS to Manufacturers, Fruit Industry, etc. 0.205
FINANCING of Crop from Grower to Market . . . . 0.041
REFINING, all charges 0.484
FREIGHT, Port Charges, Packages 0.24
GROWERS & MILLERS, including all Labor at
Award Rates 3.03
4,5
This 3.03 pence per pound does not represent what the Miller and Grower
actually receive for the sugar crop. From 40 per cent, to 50 per cent, of the
whole crop is exported every year, and the net return to the Millers and
Growers was, in the season just passed, about £lB per ton for the whole
crop, or less than 2d. per pound. The whole value of the export of sugar is
absorbed in the wages paid out for its production. This adds two and a half
million pounds to the purchasing power of the workers, and most of this money
finds its way to the Southern States.
And it is so all along the line. Look into the assertions of these critics of ours
and you will see that they are all without foundation in fact. Not one of them
will stand investigation.
Yours, etc.,
A SUGAR GROWER.
inserted bu the,
Sugar Cromers of Australia
foir the, ffnfoirmation of the Sfeople.
rt.S.M,
SHADOW SHOWS.
Sydney Plaza has a bill this week whicn
exemplifies the best and worst that Holly-
wood is capable of. “The Mad Genius” has
nearly all the attributes of a great movie.
The casting and acting couldn’t be bettered,
and the' decor and photography are imagina-
tive and beautiful. There isn’t much humor,
but what there is fits naturally into the
action. John Barrymore is Tsarakov, a club-
footed impresario with a craze for dancing,
who trains others to become what he might
have been. Fedor, the triumph of his life,
falls in love with Olga, the star ballerina,
and he decides to separate them in the boy’s
interest. His machinations to get rid of
Olga—in the course of which he forces his
drug-crazed ballet-master to sign a letter
saying she is incompetent—and to make
Fedor believe she has left him for a wealthy
rival, form* the drama. Barrymore gives an
almost flawless performance, in which his
fine. voice and articulation and restraint of
gesture and movement are effectively em-
ployed. He only descends to trickiness once
—when the drug-addict murders him, and he
topples acrobatically down a flight of stairs.
Donald Cook is impressive as Fedor, and
Charles Butterworth relieves the prevailing
gloom as Tsarakov’s fatuous secretary ; but
they are all so good that it is hard to parti-
cularise. Some other points about this movie
are that it moves from start to finish; the
dialogue is intelligent; and —largely owing to
the superb camera-work —the atmosphere is
always right.
“High Pressure,” which, for some inex-
plicable reason, is the featured item, is awful.
Each character is a stock Hollywood type —
low-comedy Yid, gimlet-eyed Captain of
Industry and so on—and like nothing on
earth. William Powell, as another Walling-
ford, promotes a vast swindle—a synthetic
rubber company—dupes everybody, makes a
fortune and wins Evelyn Brent after she has
turned him down as a hopeless waster. The
tempo is slow, owing to the wise-cracking,
which is fast and furious and conducted in
a continuous yell, and the photography is
hard and ugly. If the thing has any re-
deeming features they are the realistic open-
ing shots, which disclose Powell dead drunk
and wearing a week-old beard in a speakeasy,
and the comedy work of Guy Kibbee as the
rubber company’s dummy president.
* * *
M.-G.-M.’s “Tarzan, the Apeman,” at Syd-
ney Capitol, has all the wild excitement, and
wilder improbability of a kids’ serial. “East
of Borneo” was gospel compared with this.
The jungle animals behave after the Kipling
manner, but the things they do are no less
absurd than the love story. Papa Parker
(C. Aubrey Smith), daughter Jane (Maureen
O’Sullivan) and Holt (Neil Hamilton) are
searching for the fabled burial ground of the
elephants, when Jane is carried off scream-
ing by Tarzan (the athletic Johnny Weis-
muller). Night comes and the untutored
Tarzan, in compliance with her pleadings,
sleeps outside his tree-top home and then
returns her to papa. However, they come
together again for some artless amphibious
love-making, but. although she no longer
doubts she loves him, she once more returns
to her people because it is time for them to be
captured by pygmies. Tarzan swims to the
rescue, pursued by crocodiles, but is saved by
hippos, and arrives in the nick of time.
Tarzan triumphs in a combat with gorillas
just as his allies, the elephants, brought by
his ape-pal Chita, arrive and smash the vil-
lage. Papa Parker, fatally wounded, insists
on riding after a dying elephant, and so they
come to the 'long-sought burial ground vrith
its heaps of ivory. Parker buried. Jane
insists on staying with Tarzan and Holt
returns to civilisation alone.
* *
“Disorderly Conduct” (Fox), which is
keeping the ushers busy at Sydney Regent,
has as its theme a policeman in an American
city who tries to be honest. At the begin-
ning- Sergeant Fay (Spencer Tracy) is a
traffic cop who scorns bribes. He arrests
a bootlegger’s daughter for speeding, declines
to release her in return for a roll of bank-
notes, and pops her in the cooler. Her
father, who has a political pull like all good
bootleggers, secures her immediate release,
and causes Fay to lose his stripes and be
transferred to another district. So Fay
becomes a grafter. His superior officer, Dan
Manning (Ralph Bellamy), loves the boot-
legger’s daughter, but is famed for his honesty.
He raids one of the establishments which Fay
has been shielding. During the raid Fay
finds the bootlegger’s daughter in a room with
a man who has just been murdered. He
takes money from the girl’s father to keep
his mouth shut. Manning gets him sacked.
Going home, Fay is shot at by the speak-
easy proprietor whose premises were raided.
His little nephew is killed instead. Fay, filled
with remorse, attacks all his disreputable
cronies of yore single-handed, covers himself
with glory, and is readmitted to the force.
“Wayward” (Paramount), the other
Regent attraction, is a not very neat weld-
ing of two ancient plots. There are Daisy
(Nancy Carroll), a pretty Broadway star,
surprisingly unsophisticated, and David
Frost (Richard Arlen), a young banker of
good family, who marries her after a whirl-
wind courtship. Daisy is disapproved of
by David’s mother (Pauline Frederick) and
the remainder of his relatives, and all con-
trive to make the ex-actress as uncomfort-
able as they can. Her only ally is a tippling
brother-in-law. David and Daisy leave Mrs.
Frost’s house and go to live in a cottage.
David, who has also refused to touch a cent
of his mother’s money, finds the new life irk-
some, and is not sorry to move back to
mother when baby falls ill. The infant’s
illness has been caused by carelessness on
Daisy’s part, and that, of course, does not
make her any more popular with her hus-
band. Things come to a head when Daisy,
after taking too much fizz at a party, con-
sents to elope with the brother-in-law but
thinks better of it before the first night away
from home is over. The mother, in the
absence of the distracted David—he still
loves her though he shows it in a boorish
way—chases her away when she arrives
back. For the next two years or so, Daisy,
minus husband and child, works as a music
teacher, and frets over her exiled state.
David likewise mopes. Daisy attempts to
kidnap her child, is caught in the act by
Mrs. Frost, and in the rumpus that follows
is championed by David, who defends her
and upbraids his mother. Pauline Frederick
does her smooth best with the material
available.
* * *
“Hell Divers” (M.-G.-M.), at Sydney State,
was filmed at Panama during naval manoeu-
vres and a great deal of the action takes
place upon a giant aircraft carrier. The
film derives its title from a type of bombing
’plane which dives earthwards at great
speed, releases bombs and then ascends. The
story, except for a few banal touches, is
worthy of the spectacular settings, which
include hundreds of ’planes hurling them-
selves through the air, a line of battleships
demolishing obsolete craft, and a trio of
dirigibles. Wallace Beery is Hiker, a chief
machinist in the U.S.A. naval aviation ser-
vice, always in a scrape, and in danger
of losing his position to Steve Nelson (Clark
Gable), younger and more efficient. Biker
plays a childish joke which estranges Nelson
from his sweetheart, and the pair, never
friends, become bitter enemies. Biker’s girl,
Mame Kelsey (Marjorie Bambeau), who
runs a speakeasy for sailors, does her best
to patch up the quarrel, but the pair fight as
soon as her back is turned. Biker, who is
decisively licked, is arrested for brawling and
put behind bars. This makes him late for his
ship, and as punishment he is reduced to
the ranks, and his place is given to Nelson
In a practice flight. Nelson and Biker and a
squadron-leader are stranded on an island.
Nelson and the other are very badly injured;
Riker looks after them. A fog prevents the
rest of the squadron getting in touch with
the marooned men, and Riker, exercising
superhuman efforts, gets the ’plane off the
island and flies through the fog back to
the ship. His knowledge of flying is elemen-
tary—he is a mechanic and not a pilot—and
in landing he smashes his craft upon the
deck. The other two are saved, but Riker
dies in the smash. Exceptionally well acted.
# # *
Warner Oland is the headliner in “Drums
of Jeopardy” (Celebrity) also at the Hay-
market. He is Boris Karlov, a Russian
chemist, whose daughter has been betrayed
by one of four men. Not knowing the
actual culprit, Boris plans to wipe them all
out and destroys two. Love interest is fur-
nished by Prince Nicholas (Lloyd Hughes),
one of the marked men, and Kitty Conover
(June Collyer), an American art student,
into whose apartment Nicholas breaks dur-
ing one of his flights from Karlov. In the
end villainy is vanquished and true love
triumphs.
* # *
Sydney Mayfair and Ilaymarket both show
Celebrity’s “Shopworn.” Presumably in-
tended as an indictment of jealous, unreason-
ing mother-love, it is not so much shopworn
as a collection of remnants lightly tacked
together. A redeeming feature is Barbara
Stanwyck. Serving in a cafeteria she meets
stolid Regis Toomey, who is a medical
student. H‘e is under his mother’s thumb,
and mother gets her lawyer to stop the young-
sters’ wedding by having Barbara sent to a
reformatory, and telling her embittered son
that the girl took 5000 dollars for not marry-
ing him. Six years pass. Barbara has
lost her virtue and become a star actress.
She humiliates her former sweetheart when
he seeks her out, but they love each other still
and make it up. Ma (Clara Blandick) comes
to shoot her, but breaks down, which per-
suades Barbara to give him up. She is tell-
ing him so when ma confesses that out of
her blind love, etc., she has made a cruel
mistake in keeping them apart. Wedding
bells.
“Cine Ma”: It required more than ordi-
nary courage for M.-G.-M. to tackle the
screening of Eugene O’Neill’s “Strange
Interlude.” Not only is the duration of the
play nearly twice normal, but no film
producer has yet had to solve the problem
of making the subconscious mind audible in
a talkie, though in silent days we were in-
ured to mental processes expressed by throw-
backs, dream pictures and transparencies.
On the stage the asides which follow the con-
ventional remarks in “Strange Interlude”
were made with the face turned to the audi-
ence.


°Ul)lOOQ
iinr-HUM'**
A NEW & PERFECT SYSTEM
A Tremendous Scientific Advancement
in Heating and Cooking by Oil. Generates a perfect
filtered-gas, automatically, as soon as match is
applied.
This gas-flame cannot smoke or smell.
Diffuses a cosy healthful warmth amply sufficient for
larger rooms—a genial warmth which radiates into every
corner.
Simple
Just a match to
light and a turn
of a button to
extinguish.
Clean
The system
ensures complete
combust ion—
cannot smoke, and
cooking vessels
do not become
sooted, though
directly over the
flame.
A physically
agreeable heat,
which is without
a trace of oil-
fumes—just right
for warming the
bedrooms, nursery
and all living
rooms.
'Stove can be car-
ried from room to
room whilst lit.
Also ideal for
warming Offices,
Workshops, etc.
DEMON
rnmuii
;fi
I $
a
m
m
I Hi
With Radiator
for Heating.
The
Double
Service
Stove
[Cooker
and
Heater
in One.
Price No. 66 (as
illustrated) 65/-
f.o.r. Melb.
No. 76 (larger size),
72/6 f.o.r. Melb.
Economical
Uses only one
part oil to 500
parts of air.
It burns 14-16
hours at one
filling of five
pints.
Convenient
Can be refilled
whilst burning. No
need to watch or
regulate the flame.
Light it-leave it
Merely detach the
Radiator and the
same Stove be-
comes a powerful
and effi cie n t
Cooker as well as
Heater double
service but still
the same trifling
fuel consumption!
Cosy warmth
as soon as it’s
lit .. . also full
Cooking Heat.
Radiator removed jor
cooking, boiling, etc.
Proprietary limited
Send jor Illustrated Leaflets on “Demon” Cookers.
582-592 Collins Street
51-65 Bathurst Street -
116-130 Waymouth Street
- MELBOURNE
- - - SYDNEY
- - ADELAIDE
HANDY HINTS for the FARM
How Mam ; Sublets Does This
Shilling Book Cover?
Here is the Index of subjects under the letter S:
sdf
sdf
sdf
Every effort has been used to make the book of the greatest practical value on every kind of farm.
The experienced farmer will know hundreds of the things in it. It is the few he doesn t know or has
forgotten that will make it worth pounds to him.
Price, 1/-; by post, 1/2. From the head office of “The Bulletin,” 252 George Street, Sydney; or from
any branch office: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; James Place,
Adelaide; 33 Barrack Street, Perth; 14 Panama Street, Wellington (N.Z.).
OR FROM ANY NEWSAGENT.


Send Your Tyres to“ Southern Cross "for Retreading
■ We send C.O.D. to any part of tf.S.W.
FLAT RATE RETREADING.
All car sizes
17/6
All car sizes
(With supertough Rubber Retreads with
popular diamond pattern for long life and wear.)
22/6
All truck sizes
30/-
Also full stocks of new tyres and tubes, also
Send them along to-day. Write or
’PHONE 81110.
SOUTHERN CROSS TYRES,
75 Macquarie Street, Sydney
J. 0.8. tyres,
’phone.
’PHONE 81110.
LTD.,
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
(TlB
ANNOUNCING P. & C. ACCIDENT
AND SICKNESS ASSURANCE
For nine years the co-operative
policy of the P. and G. has won
the goodwill of the Man on the
Land throughout the length and
breadth of Australia.
The Company now announces
accident and sickness assurance
on the same co-operative basis.
The liberal nature of these
policies and the special benefits
they provide will make an imme-
diate appeal to all who wish to
protect their incomes and pro-
vide for additional expenses
incurred during periods of dis-
ablement.
Send for literature and full
particulars to
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. Of AUSTRALIA LTD,
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
_ N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and A
555. Agency Co., Ltd.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
QUALITY OF THE WHEAT GRAIN.
“C. E. Real” : As farmers know very well,
the quality of any particular wheat vsrries
with the season. The quality of wheat from
one variety may, however, vary in the same
season in different districts. For instance,
Federation, sown in the Mallee, Wimmera
and Gippsland districts, has been known to
yield a grain of entirely different quality,
particularly as regards strength, the gluten
content being 12.4, 11 and 8.7 per cent,
respectively. The difference tvas due not
solely to climate, but also to a vast difference
in the type and class of soil.
The gluten (protein) content of wheat is
dependent upon the amounts of carbohydrates
(starch and sugars) and nitrogenous com-
pounds present in the elaborated sap at the
time the grain begins to form. The effect
of late rains and low temperatures is to
lengthen or prolong maturity; this favors
the formation of carbohydrates over protein,
and the result is a Avheat grain with a loav
protein content. On the other hand, early
maturity, due to a dry season and warm
weather, will favor the formation of nitro-
genous compounds, so that the resultant
wheat is comparatively low in carbohydrates
and high in its content of protein.
The application of nitrogenous fertilisers
will affect the quality of the grain only if
the soil is deficient in available nitrogen
(with bare fallow this is a thing unknown
up to the present in the majority of our
wheatfields), or when the plant suffers from
nitrogen starvation. In that case —-always
provided a sufficiency of other plant foods
is available—-the protein content and quality
of the grain may be increased by the appli-
cation of nitrogenous fertilisers, but not if
the other essential plant foods are unavail-
able in the correct proportion.
Phosphates (super.) and potash tend to
increase the carbohydrate formation, and con-
sequently to produce a grain of low pro-
tein percentage. Under favorable climatic
conditions, however, wheat grown with the
aid of artificial fertilisers has been found
to be of better quality than wheat grown
without such aid. Some investigators have
found that nitrogenous fertilisers when
applied in the early stages of growth only
increased the yield, but if applied just as
the crop is heading the protein content was
appreciably increased. This helps to explain
why Australian wheat grown in a season
of thunderstorms is almost invariably com-
paratively rich in protein.
The moisture content is of importance.
It takes from five to seven weeks for the
grain to dry out; if harvested early, it will,
of course, weigh heavier. There is a limit
to this point, however, for if harvested too
immature the grain will suffer not only in
quality but also in appearance. _ Once the
drying-out process is commenced in a normal
year there is no further transportation of
plant food through the plant. Workers
throughout the world are actively engaged in
improving the quality of wheat, not so much
because the miller or baker demands it, as to
satisfy the public taste.
ASSIST EACH TYPE.
“Valerin”: The idea of encouraging the
growing of better wool by owners of 2000
sheep and under is an excellent one. There
are about 26,000 of these small holders own-
ing 1 per cent, of the sheep in N. S. Wales,
and as large estates are broken up the per-
centage must increase. The average quality
of the wool grown is only fair; sheep are
kept more as a sideline, and not much atten-
tion is given to improving them.
Better results would be achieved if prizes
were given for strong-, medium- and fine-
woolled flocks. No satisfactory comparison
can be made between Balranald and Barraba,
Mungindi and Mudgee types, and very rarely
is a man capable of judging them without
some unconscious bias. Climate, seasons,
country, soil and grasses make it impossible
to produce anything like a uniform type of
wool, and it would be inadvisable to try it.
Vagaries of fashion demand the three funda-
mental types. There was a definite swing to the
fine wools grown in the New England and Yass
areas, and very high prices were obtained.
Now fine wools have gone out of favor ; broad
wools are coming into their own again, and
are now selling comparatively better than
other types. How long this will last no one
can forecast. The main thing is to encour-
age the producing of the best of each type.
“STAR” LOTS OF WOOL.
“Murrawong”; If sheep were worth only
3s. 6d. a head in Sydney, graziers who have
to pay railway freight of 3s. 6d. or more
per head would think twice before trucking
them Yet precisely that position exists
to-day so far as certain lines of wool are
concerned, and the “star lots catalogue is
a dreary testimony to the, short-sightedness
of growers Avho have consigned low lines of
avool to the brokers. A series of sales has
just concluded Avith the price of locks and
low crutchings averaging Id. per pound;
many lots have been sold at fd. and id.- —
very low lines have not even elicited a bid.
That penny will not cover freight in most
cases, and the additional costs of packs,
pressing, insurance, brokers’ charges and
commission have still to be accounted for,
so that hundreds of growers will receive a
bill instead of a cheque. Newspapers pub-
lish only the sales of the main lines of clips,
and few groAvers take the trouble to analyse
their returns. The republication of several
pages of recent “star” lot catalogues would
not be advantageous to brokers, but would
be an eye-opener to sheepowners of both
large and small flocks.
We are nearing the opening of another
shearing season, and, unless there is a pro-
nounced rise in the wool market, such lines
as locks, low-grade stained wool, short
crutchings and short “mousey” lambs’ wool,
especially if they carry heavy burr (which
adds a further depreciation of -Jd. to Id.
per pound at the present time), will yield
more profitable results by being dumped in
washaways round the shed or used to fill
puddleholes in the yards.
CULLING AND CLASSING.
“Linhope Scott”: I agree with “Murra-
wong” (B. 11/5/’32) that there is not
enough culling done and that what is
done is often done carelessly. However,
the small flockbreeder is here up against
a bit of a snag: no matter how carefully he
culls his ewes he will still find kempy-
fibred “goats” cropping up occasionally in
his flocks. This is largely the fault of stud-
masters who during the boom years, when
any ram at all was worth seven or eight
guineas and good ones were beyond the reach
of the small man s pocket, sent to country
ram sales many animals which should have
been doctored. ' One scheme Avhen selling a
stud-ram was to demand from the purchaser
so much in cash and so many ram lambs
from the sire’s first get. In many cases the
ewes AAdth which they were mated were not
of the type to mate with that particular ram,
resulting in offspring possessing no dominant
traits and lacking in character. To “Murra-
wong’s” adA’iee therefore I add: “Be careful
in your choice of rams.”
As for classers, it seems as if the S.A.
School of Mines awards a doctorate or a cash
prize or something for the student who can
make the most lines out of a clip. Last
season I saAV a School-of-Mines classer in
charge of a large shed make five lines of
fleece from the wool of 700 hoggets as even
arid well bred as any in the south-east.
If a man doesn’t know enough about wool
to class it, how can he expect to grow it or
know what he wants to grow ? I advise
every small grower to make as few lots as
possible, thereby making each lot as large as
possible. In fact, if his culling has been well
done and he breeds his own sheep, all that is
necessary is to discard, a few of the worst
fleeces and send the rest to market in one
line.
The first thing a buyer looks at is the size
of the lot. Other things being approxi-
mately equal, he will always pay more tor
a big lot than for a small one. Although the
top price might not be as high, the average
will usually be slightly higher than that real-
ised if the clip is overclassed and made into
a number of small lots.
The vital necessity of cutting production
costs to the bone has spelled the doom of
the depot shed. Here is an instance. For
many years up to and including 1930 I
shore at a large depot machine-shed close to
my property. From 1920 to 1929 the charge for
doing everything except brand the sheep was
12Jd. per head, lambs included. In 1930
ir fell to Io4d. per head; in 3931 it was
further reduced to 9Jd. per sheep. Being
short of funds and sick of the generally rough
cut I built a shed on my block, and last
season two blade-shearers, one “lizard” and
myself put through my 2000 in three weeks
at a. cost of s|d. per head.
Apart from the lower cost I had the satis-
faction of having all the say in the shearing
of my own sheep and the get-up of my wool.
Furthermore, the sum I saved on shearing
was equal approximately to half the cost of
the 50ft. x 20ft. stone shed. This year the
saving will complete payment for the shed
and next year will pay for the press.
Of course I got a slightly smaller clip, as
there was more wool left on the sheep, but
that is only for one year. In any case it
was offset to some extent by the enhanced
price I received for my culls at the local off-
shears sale.
CATTLE CRUSHES.
“Pine Scrub”; This one is a great labor-
saver and convenience to the man handling
a number of cattle. The usual crush is built
with platforms on each side for the branders
and with a sliding gate across each end. A
drafting gate is swung on a post in a line
with one side of the crush. This gate is
worked by a handle extending upwards to the
operator, who is stationed on a platform
above. Cattle can be drafted two ways to
the yards or can be directed straight ahead
into a second short crush, which is formed
on one side, by the drafting gate and on the
other by a gate swung on the opposite end
post of the long crush.
This gate is left open when drafting is in
progress, and closed when required to form
one side of the short crush. At the end of
the short crush there is a strong bail with
a gate across the end. Here sick or injured
beasts can be treated. Once it is bailed the
side gate can be opened for approach to the
side of the beast or the end gate for treat-
ment of the head and horns.
Drenching cattle for fluke and worms will
soon be widely adopted. This crush is well
adapted for, that purpose. Many bad doers
will soon start to fatten if given a 20c.e.
dose of carbon-tetra. chloride.
TOBACCO-FARM COSTS.
In the concluding article of the series they
have contributed to the Vic. “Journal of
Agriculture,” Messrs. W. J. B. McDonald
and G. E. Coghlan go into the question of
the cost of running a tobacco farm and the
possible income to be derived, taking it for
granted that the grower aims at proaucing
bright flue-cured leaf. They base their cal-
culations on a farm of 35 acres in a suitable
district; 15 acres are cropped, 15 fallowed,
and the remainder used for buildings and
yards.
Capital expenditure is reckoned at
£1341 ss. Details are: Land, at £lO
per acre. £350; cost of clearing, £lO per
acre, £350; fencing, £96 55.; two barns,
£190; shed, £lOO ; stable, £3O ; implements,
£150; three horses, at £25 each, £75. Annual
expenditure is set down at £313 14s. 3d.;
interest on capital, at 5 p.c., £67 Is. 3d.
depreciation on horses, 10 p.c., £7 55.; on
machinery, £l5; on buildings, £22 Bs.; feed,
15 tons at £3 10s., £52 10s.; fertiliser, at
£1 per acre, £l5 ; 100,000 plants, at £1 per
thousand, £100; 30 cords wood, at £1 per
cord,. £3O; hessian, twine, etc., £4 10s. Labor-
costs are estimated at £144: One man, 24
weeks, at £3, £72; one man, 4 weeks, at
£3 (transplanting), £l2; two men, 10 weeks,
at £3 (harvesting), £6O. For the rest, rates
and taxes (£10), repairs (£10), contingen-
cies (£2O), freight, 3f tons, at £2 55., (£8 Bs.
9d.), and cartage, 3f tons, 10 miles, at Is. per
ton mile (£1 17s. Od.), make £5O 6s. 3d. The
total is £5OB os. 6d.; it does not include the
value of the farmer’s labor and management.
Without that, actual cost or growing 15 acres
of tobacco will be £5OB os. 6d., or £33 17s. 4d.
per acre. Supposing lie gets a yield equal
to the State average for 10 years, 5611 b.,
actual cost of producing lib. of leaf works
out at 14.4 d., plus the value of his own labor.
His income is thus provided by the amount
in excess of 14.4 d. per pound paid for his
leaf, every additional penny representing £2
6s. 9d. per acre. At 2s. 3d. per pound, the
income in this case would be £441 15s. 9d.
or £336 2s. at an average of 2s. per pound.
And he can save on wood and plants.
It looks good, but the very helpful writers
issue a warning as to the risk of total loss
through blue mould, and conclude: “The
grower should be assured of sufficient finance
to enable him to grow a second crop should
his first be a total failure.”
CLEANING BABCOCK-TEST WARE.
“B. Kleen” : A little care in cleaning and
handling test glassware will double its life,
and as the ware is imported and the cosl
is increasing economy should be the watch-
word. A Avooden draining-tray of flat cor-
rugated wood with a series of thin wooden
dowels or rods affixed to take inverted test-
bottles is most useful.
As soon as the test is completed, empty
the bottle. If let stand for any length of
time the solution becomes gelatinous and
sticks. Never allow the necks of the bottles
to remain in contact with acid, since the acid
will in time attack the enamel lines and
figures. When emptying, avoid rubbing the
bottles one against another or against metal.
This wall spoil the surface of the glass and
permit the acid and cleansing solutions to
attack the glass, to leave an opaque surface.
The bottles, emptied, should be cleaned at
once with a solution of chromic acid, pre-
pared by dissolving 3Joz. of potassium bi-
chromate in a quart of water (do not
heat) and slowly adding to this solution
one quart of sulphuric acid. This is a
splendid solution for cleansing, but care
should be taken not to allow it to come in
contact with the enamel lines and figures, or
they will quickly disappear. Finally, rinse
the bottles in clean hot water and invert
them on the wooden tray to drain.
Pipettes and burettes can be easily cleaned
in a similar manner. The same portion of
chromic solution may be used two or three
times before discarding if the directions are
closely followed, so that the bottles in the
beginning are not very dirty.
TAINTED MILK.
“Alf Alpha” : The vilest milk I have ever
tasted (or smelt) was from a cow that had
broken into an old garlic paddock and struck
some garlic plants. It is a very hard thing
to eradicate the stuff from a field.
The taint given milk in the first flush of
spring by capeweed is of common occur-
rence. A taint has been often traced to the
injudicious feeding of sugar-beet, turnips,
lucerne and the like. But a new one on me
was quoted by a practical dairyman in the
Whittlesea (Vic.) district, who said that
although subterranean clover did remarkably
well in the district he had to get rid of it,
for it tainted the milk badly. When I sug-
gested that he should have got rid of his
milkers in favor of sheep, he replied that a
neighbor who had gone in for sub. extensively
tried sheep, “but the butcher turned him
down because the mutton was tainted !”
The way to overcome the milk taint is
to wilt before feeding, or cut for meadow
hay; but this method does not come into the
problem under, review. The question is how
to overcome milk taint from subterranean
clover grown in pasture fed off. It would
appear that the grazing system w’ill have to
be reorganised, and that. Strawberry will
only be permitted to graze on the sub.-shandy
pasture for a short period prior to being
transferred to a paddock where sub. is not.
A LADY’S WELL-MANAGED FARM.
“Hortus”: At Hazel Point, Weeapoinah
(Vie.), is the potato-seed farm of Mrs. A.
McKenzie, a widow, who is considered ohe
of the most expert growers and exhibitors in
the State. Her methods are well worth
studying. For five years seed was selected
from plants most desirable from the
standpoint of health, vigor and conformity
to type. This was her seed stock. At the
end of October land is ploughed to a depth
of 4in. with a double-disc plough and then
disc-harrowed. After a fortnight it is
ploughed again Tin. deep and again disc-
harrowed. A smoother is put over in Decem-
ber to break clods and level the surface prior
to sets being planted in December. Seed, nine
bags to the acre, is planted with machine
and 6cwt. super. Round seed is preferred,
but mostly cut seed is used owing to scarcity
of small potatoes ; it is dipped for 14 hours
in a solution of lib. formalin and 32 gallons
of water. The crop is intertilled at the end
of January, and again three weeks later.
After two potato crops in succession, oats
for hay is sown, followed by oats and rape
for green feed, with which grass and clover
are sown for pasture. The latter mixture
consists of 201 b. perennial rye, 21b, cocks-
foot, 31b. white Dutch clover, 21b. sub. clover,
lib. red clover and about lib. Lotus Major.
Fifteen varieties of potatoes are grown ; the
standards are Carman (early and late),
Mainstee and Up-to-date. Average yields
from Carmans are 10 tons per acre; from
Manistee and Up-to-date, 8 tons. Arran Vic-
tory. imported from Scotland, has developed
into one of the heaviest croppers—-5 tons
from less than half an acre.
Mrs. McKenzie also has a dairying herd
of Jersey-Shorthorn crosses, with a pure-
bred Jersey bull. She intends to make a
specialty of the dairy. Pastures are
top-dressed annually with 1001 b. super, in
April, and their carrying capacity has been
in this manner doubled. Pigs (Tamworth
variety) are also kept to consume waste
products.
COTTON-SEED AND LINSEED MEAL.
“J. Point” : I didn’t suggest adding cotton-
seed hull bran to the decorticated cotton-
seed meal (B. 11/5/’32) ; I merely observed
that the practice was followed by manu-
facturers. Pure decorticated meal contains
a minimum of 43 p.c. crude protein and 7 p.c.
fat. It is doubtless all right for expert
feeders to handle such' a rich concentrate,
but in inexperienced hands it has been
known to cause a kind of protein-sickness.
Addition of the bran minimises this danger
and lessens the cost to the dairyman. Admit-
tedly the bran hasn’t much feeding value,
but it improves the physical condition of
the meal (the pure decorticated meal is
finer than pollard). Again, it isn’t safe to
condemn on a paper analysis—if we did
this, wheat bran would be ruled out of many
rations of which it forms a part.
I agree with “F.T.” that a half-and-half
mixture of linseed meal and cotton-seed meal
forms an excellent concentrate. The draw-
back is the price.
( Continued. on next page.)


ML
m
Comfortable and
twice as tough!
Snug, easy-fitting and com-
pletely lined with soft leather,
the Abbey Cossack is yet an
extra durable boot for hard,
all-weather wear. The sole is
a double thickness of Aus-
tralia’s best-wearing leather.
Abbey Cossacks are guaranteed
to outlast any ordinary boots.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete) .
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 407-
Black Box Calf . . . . 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 283
sdf
|“EOTHEN
128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St-
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
t garage
Jnclutive Tariff. £4-44)
PAYING GUESTS Mr*. PARKER
'MEMBER
MLIDIIT
IBuiPIEaYLi *DIF
o.
URCuiAimDMft
THE PERTH
is one of the foundation members of
the Audit Bureau of Circulations.
ADVERTISE IN A POPULAR
PAPER.
Note how the weekly output has
increased since February last:
Feb. 7 . . 28,820 Apl. 3 . . 34,250
„ 21 . . 30,600 „ 17 . . 35,590
Mch. 6 . . 31,400 May 1 . . 37,400
„ 20 . . 32,100 „ 15 . . 41,250
An increase in less than four months
of 12,430 copies weekly.
The above figures represent gross circulation,
but it is circulation without unnecessary waste.
The opportunity presents for advertisers to
book space at no extra charge for the increased
circulation.
M
1111911 a
s
RuralTopics.Dpirying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
Horticulture. Veterinary
.. Notes Etc All in ..I
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES G>°
TRADE (/ MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAY BEST OS
S( Silver Edge ”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
SEAL OF GUARANTEE
ON NECK OF EVERY BOTTLI
its
10
w
ETAT MEANS
"STATE viz
OWNED BY THE
STATE OF FRANCE
DOTTLE O it GUARANTEED
PURE OY THE PRENCH
GOVERN M ENT
The .Guarantee of the
French Government,
both as to the authen*
ticity and the purity of
Vichy Etat Waters,is
of great importance to
the Medical profession
and to consumers.
CELESTINS is the
NAME or THE SPRINC
BEAR THIS
IN MIND
‘‘She following natement defies contradiction t
Many Mineral Waters may be offered to you,
but, when you are recommended to take or when
you ask for VICHY WATER, what you mean
to have and what you should get (whether you
know it or not) is
CELESTINS
VICHY WATER
the only French Mineral Water owned by the
French Republic and bottled under its super-
vision.
Invaluable to prevent and cure gout, rheumat-
ism, unc gravel and all liver and kidney
® complaints.
Stocked by all leading hotels, clubs, restaurants,
chemists and stores throughout the rorld.
Insist on CELESTINS VICHY WATER..
Examine the facsimile opposite and refuse substitutes.
Bole Agents for i ustralia: MAURICE PELL ETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney, A .W.
STATE
DISTRIBUTORS
VICTORIA:
Messrs. Curcier Adet & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., 119 William St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. A. E. and F. Tolley, Ltd.,
82 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Messrs. J. M. Seward and Co.,
Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
QUEENSLAND:
Messrs. E. Rich & Co., Ltd,,
Wharf Street, Brisbane.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Are there islands of about 5000 acres off
the Q’land coast suitable for agriculture, and
can such an island be leased? Approximate
rental, and where should I apply? —97o2.
None suitable for agriculture. South
Island, Percy Group, 5 sq. miles in area, is
open for pastoral lease at the Lands Office,
Mackay ; term, 20 years ; annual rent, f 110 s.
per sq. mile for first 10 years.
Cause and treatment of fistula in horses,
and can a permanent cure be effected? —9852.
Fistula wither in horses is usually caused
by injury from ill-fitting saddlery or through
rolling on stones. Treatment is usually sur-
gical removal of the necrotic tissue, followed
by antiseptic irrigation and drainage. This
should be done by a vet. If not of chronic
duration and the age and value of the animal
warrant careful treatment, the prospect of
success is reasonably bright, but many cases
resist a prolonged course of treatment.
Formulas for a drench to shift (1)
tapeworm in horses; (2) bots in the
stomach? (3) Would it be harmful to either
ewe or larnb to drench cioes heavy in lamb .
using 2oz. arsenic to 4 gallons water —1 oz.
dose? (4) I have a four-year-old thorough-
bred gelding that three or four months ago
had internal strangles. Recovered from this
he has developed a habit, when ridden, of
shaking his head and sneezing, as if there
were a March fly annoying, him. There may
be some growth or parasite in his nostril.
Cause and cure? —9765.
(1) Liquid extract of male fern, 2 to 4
drachms; turpentine, |oz. to loz., and -Joz.
of ginger in sufficient oil, milk or gruel to
make up a drench. Administer after at least
15 hours’ fast. (2) Turpentine, 20z., mixed
with the white of an egg and given in one
to two pints of linseed oil on an empty
stomach. (3) Suggested dose is satisfactory
for adult dry sheep, but as sheep heavy in
lamb should not be handled, it is inadvisable
to drench. (4) Can’t diagnose without in-
spection. Consult a vet.
How to prevent a heifer with her first calf
from sucking herself?- —9890.
A suitable type of yoke consists of a head-
stall, preferably of leather, with a throat-
strap and a leather girth. At the junction of
the nose- and cheek-bands of the headstall
a light pole of suitable length is attached
by means of a leather thong passed through
a hole in the end of the rod. An old broom-
handle makes a satisfactory rod. The other
end of the rod is attached to the girth about
midway between the withers and elbow on
one side. This attachment must be freely
movable to allow the free movement of the
head for grazing. The rod prevents the head
from moving sideways.
(1) Where wood is no expense and there
is abundant water, would a steam boiler be
more economical than an oil-engine for chaff -
cutting on a dairy farm? (2) What are the
drawbacks to steam as power on a dairy
farm? (3) Gould the water from the boiler
be used for washing buckets and cans? (4)
Are boilers available in suitable size? (5)
What firm are agents? —9B6l.
(1) If time and labor are of n 0 account
you would save the cost of oil. (2) Amount
of labor required and time wasted getting
up steam. (3) Yes; but you would get the
same result with a chip-heater. (4) and
(5) Nicol Bros., 65 Sussex-street, or Scrut-
tons, Ltd., 161 Clarence-street—both Sydney.
(1) A good book on beekeeping? (2) Is
success possible when the only timber is
eucalyptus or the different gums usually so-
called? (3) Cost of starting, minus house
and land? (4) How many hives are neces-
sary to secure a good living? (5) Length of
time until returns are available. (6) Prices
paid for different grades and by whom?
—9726.
(1) “Beekeeping in Victoria,” by F. R.
Beuhne, from Agriculture Department, Vic.,
Is. (2) Yes. The best sites obtainable are
those consisting of mixed eucalyptus forests.
(3) £2OO should be sufficient. (4) You can
estimate a profit of 255. pgr colony per
annum. (5) If a commencement were made
with full colonies in the spring, returns
would come in as soon as the bees were
established. (6) The crop would have to be
sold through the Honey Board, and prices
paid would be according to grade.
In the “Man on the Land” page ( B.
27/4/’32) the addition of cod-liver oil to a
wet mash for poultry is recommended. llow
much for one feed for 50 hens? —992s.
Cod-liver oil is usually given to laying
hens at the rate of 4oz. (about 4 table-
spoons) per 100 hens per day; therefore 2
tablespoons would be the daily allowance
for 50 birds. The 50 birds are probably
consuming about 61b. of mash daily. It is
not necessary that the whole of this be mixed
into a wet mash with the cod-liver oil. If
dry feeding is practised, it may be continued,
simply using, say, a couple of pounds to mix
into a wet mash first thing in the morning
and adding the oil to this one feed.
(1) Where are Angora rabbits procur-
able? (2) Price per pair? (3) Price of
fur in market? (4) Where can I get infor-
mation as to rearing? (5) Would a back-
yard industry pay? —993l.
(1) List of breeders obtainable from
Rabbit Fur Farmers’ Association of N.S.W.,
Box 1104 H, G.P.0., Sydney. (2) Pedigree
stock, from about 50s. upwards. (5) Vary-
ing according to quality from 355. to 15s. per
pound. (4) Association breeders, or books
procurable in Sydney Municipal Library.
(5) Depends upon ability of owner to
manage.
What makes honey “candy”? —99Bo.
The granulation depends on the preponder-
ance of one sugar over another. H'oney is com-
posed of approximately 75 p.c. of two sugars
in equal proportions—fruit sugar and grape
sugar. If there is a preponderance of fruit
sugar, such as clovers, lucerne and some of
the eucalypts, the honey will candy very
quickly. Honey gathered from prickly-pear
and some varieties of thistles sometimes
granulates in the combs and cannot be
extracted. On the other hand, with a pre-
ponderance of grape sugar, honey will granu-
late very slowly. Honey, three years old,
gathered from yellow-box trees, lias shown
no sign of granulation.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Yan-i”: Another use for old waterpipes.
Run through the bottom meshes of the net-
ting round a fowlyard, or fastened with
tying wire threaded through the meshes, if
they are small, and round the pipe, they keep
the netting straight and neat, and there is
never any bagging or buckling, or turned-up
edges, as when stakes or nails are used. It
also dispenses with a board at the bottom,
which, on sloping ground, interferes with
the surface drainage.
“Mulyan”: A few spare swingle-bars in
the shed save time in a busy period when
one gets broken or worn at the ends. Any
handy man can make them for himself —a
good wet-day job. The timber generally pre-
ferred by the trade is spotted gum. Substi-
tutes are grey ironbark, yellow-box and yel-
low-wood. A coat of paint will prevent
cracks and keep the mountings firm for a
longer period.
“Gumblegubbin”: Cattle sometimes get
ringworm. A simple remedy is to wash the
crusted part with a strong solution of wash-
ing soda, applied warm with a bit of bag-
ging ; then paint with linseed oil in which a
little Stockholm tar is mixed. About two
dressings a week for a fortnight is sufficient.
“Cass”: Where rams develop ingrowing
horns tie them securely, saw the horns off
close to the head with a sharp ordinary
wood saw, and stop the bleeding with per-
chloride of iron in powdered form. Apply
it to the horn in a small linen bag which
just fits over the cut stump. One pound
of perchloride of iron should treat about
12 individual horns.
“Mulyan”: Old rusty bolts, with the
threaded ends hammered to a flat point on
the anvil, make good spikes, which are handy
for many purposes, and particularly for
securing the decking of a slab culvert over
a gully. Many waste bits of round iron
can be converted to similar uses.
“Karaway”: Farmers would save them-
selves a lot of trouble and expense every
year if they encouraged the small insect-
eating birds to stay about the place. On
most places the cover and nesting sites they
require are destroyed, and the birds in con-
sequence are driven away. Little sanctu-
aries by creek and gully and in the grazing
paddocks are no inconvenience and cost no-
thing. At some country places birds are
encouraged and become quite tame by the
simple act of providing water for them. They
are invaluable to the farmer if he studies
their simple wants and gives them a chance
to work for him.
“Handy Andy” : Don’t throw away dam-
aged corrugated iron. You can get it
into usable condition by hammering with
two mallets or hammers, one in each hand,
on three lengths of lin. water-pipe. Place
one piece on the under side in corrugation
and one piece on each side of it, on the
upper side, standing on the pipes firmly. Use
hammers or mallets carefully, mostly on the
pipes, turning the sheet upside down for
each corrugation and adjusting the pipes as
before, working across the sheet and turning
the sheet over for each corrugation. You
can get the corrugations to meet true, and
with a few drops of solder on top of a
nail in nail holes on the wrong side can make
a good water-tight roof, even with very
crumpled and broken-backed sheets.
“Bufforp”: If yon failed to market the
old hens and culls prior to the moult, crate
them as soon as the new feathers are set. In
their new dress they’ll fetch more than if
you hold them a few months more. Hens
through the moult —old or not —will bring
good money now.
“Ivaraway” : The powder-post beetle, which
has been known as a furniture-borer for 30
years or more, has in some parts become a
serious danger in houses. Once it gets in
it is a worse pest than white ants. To guard
against it, use only well-seasoned timber
for buildings, and see that there are no pin-
holes in it—an indication of its presence;
discard all sapwood, for that is where the
tiny beetle deposits its eggs; and as an
extra precaution give the timber a good coat-
ing of creosote.
“Bill R.” : Make hobble- or sideline-straps
out of greenhide. Well greased they will
keep soft and will not chafe the horses’ fet-
locks, as leather straps do. At one end of
a 2in. hide band cut two parallel 4in. slits;
through these force a wooden peg” with its
ends rounded off. At the other end make
a central slit £in. long; this buttons over
the peg when attaching the hobbles.
“Werrimee”: In parts of the country
where the winter is severe, fowls are apt
to get chilled combs, and this is said, in
mountain districts, to interfere with their
laying. While plenty of shade is necessary
in summer, the need of a sunbath in winter
should not be overlooked. Where the birds
have only a small enclosed run, see that the
morning sun shines on a good part of it.
“Ex-Loco” : Better than sulphur for hot
bearings (B. 30/3/’32) is blacklead. Most
of our older enginemen always carried a little
tin of blacklead in their kits. A hot “big-
end” or axle-box would usually respond to
a sprinkle down the siphon-pipe or on the
journal; and a locomotive bearing does get
hot. But it has to be kept going till the
trip is finished, if at all possible.
“Wandi”: The mistletoe plant, which has
infested and killed large numbers of mulga-
trees in the north-western parts of N.S.W.,
should be cut off with a tomahawk before
the fruit ripens. There is no need to burn
it, as it won’t grow on the ground. The
seed has a viscous coating that sticks to the
legs and feathers of birds, which eat only
the juicy part of the fruit. After feeding
on the berries they fly to a tree to cleanse
themselves, often having to wipe the seeds
from their beaks, and wherever one touches
a limb it clings and grows.
Roland Elliott, a well-known Queensland
figure in the horse trade, has just returned
from a trip to India, and says there is a
big market there for well-bred types re-
quired by the military. Australian horses,
he declared, still have the best of reputations
in India, standing up to conditions far better
than those from any other country. In
spite of much time and money spent in
attempts to breed horses in India itself
only failure had resulted, and the local
types, renowned as some of them are in
Tndia. cannot, he says, compare with the
Walers.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to ,do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Salesman, organising and trading exp., linguist,
wants engagement to travel India, China or Malay
States. Refs.—lo.
Single man (30), 16 years’ engineering exp.,
ploughman, wants job tending farm machinery on
Q’land station.—2.
Man, Vic., used to horses and cattle, offers services
in return for passage to Fremantle.—9996.
Lad (16), exp. dairy-farm work, seeks position
on North Q’land cattle station. —9947.
To exchange Kodak film, daylight developing
tank (postcard size), for stamp collection. —9978.
To buy “The Stock Doctor,” by Dr. Johnson.
—9997.
To buy official catalogue of the first group of
expropriated New Guinea properties offered for sale
by tender in 1926. —16.
To buy complete set of Bruce Bairnsfather’s
“Fragments from France.”—ll.
To hear from tobaccogrowers who have had prac-
tical exp. in curing cigar-leaf tobacco. —27.
To hear from persons interested in phosphatic
rock deposits on island with fine anchorage outside
Commonwealth jurisdiction.—32.
Words of verse “The Pride of the Ham and Beef.”
—39.
Words of poem entitled “In a Friendly Sort of
Way.”—46.
English translation of the words of “The Song
of the Volga Boatmen.” —29.
Information Sought.
(1) What penalty does a deserter from
the Royal Navy incur? (2) Could the death
penalty be incurred in any circumstances?
(3) Could a deserter be apprehended in
Queensland by the R.N. authorities or by
the police? —997l.
(1) Penal servitude or such minor pun-
ishment as may be decided on. (2) The
death penalty can be inflicted for desertion
to the enemy. (3) By either.
What arc the qualifications required of
a person desiring to be appointed a J.P. in
N.S.W., and the procedure to be followed?
—36.
He should be a man of some standing in
the community and fitted by good character
and education to carry out the duties of the
office. The appointment is made through
the Chief Secretary’s Department, and such
appointments are most frequently initiated
through the member of Parliament for the
district,
(T) What advantage is gained by placing
a radio set in a shielded cabinet? (2) How
is a receiver shielded? (3) Metals most
suitable for shielding? —99o6.
The various R.F. stages are shielded in
separate metal compartments to prevent
radiation and coupling. (2) One method is
to place each R.F. amplifying stage in a
separate metal compartment. Another con-
sists of placing each inductance coil and
valve in a cylindrical metal can and suit-
ably screening the tuning condensers. So far
as space limitations will permit, the shield
should be at least 2in. from the shielded
parts. (3) Copper, aluminium and brass.
(1) Is there any special paint or varnish
for plaster figures? (2) Any material other
than plaster of Paris for making them, and
where could I procure moulds? —9886.
(1) Lacquer or oil paints are generally
used. Shellac, transparent varnish or clear
lacquer may be used for finishing. (2)
Some of the finer qualities in Keen’s cement
make up very well. No moulds on the market
so far as we can ascertain.
(1) Were any ships built in ancient times
comparable in size to the great ocean-liners
of to-day? (2) Ilotiy does the Great Eastern
compare in size, engine-power and speed with
the new giant Gunarder building at Clyde-
bank? (3) Was the Great Eastern profitable
commercially ? —9924.
(1) The Alexandrian historian Callixenus
describes a galley built by Ptolemy Philo-
pater, ruler of Egypt, about 100 b.c. It was
420 ft. long, 57ft. wide, had 42ft. depth of
hold, and was propelled by 4000 rowers,
having five banks of oars. It is recorded
that H'iero, king of Syracuse, a century or
so later built a State barge that was much
larger, having 20 banks of oars, but the
exact dimensions are not deducible from
descriptions. (2) Great Eastern: gross ton-
nage, 22,500; length, 692 ft.; depth from keel
to top deck, 58ft; about 15,000 i.h.p.; best
recorded speed, 141 knots. New Gunarder:
gross tonnage, 73,000; length, 1018 ft.;
depth from keel to top deck over 100 ft.;
about 200,000 h.p.; designed speed, about 35
knots. (3) No, she involved her successive
owners in a total loss of over £1,000,000.
(1) What qualifications are necessary to
study for aeronautical engineering? (2)
Where can tuition be obtained? (3) What
are the prospects of employment? —9797.
(1) Obtain a copy of Syllabus of Exam-
inations for ground engineers’ licenses,
obtainable from Defence Dept., Melbourne.
Proof must be submitted by applicants for
licenses of their actual service on aircraft
and aero engines. (2) The required experi-
ence can only be gained with one of the cos.
engaged in aviation operations. (3) The
prospects of advancement in aviation engi-
neering, like most other pursuits, have been
affected as a result of the depression.
llow can I make and lay a liquid aqua-
tint ground, and how is the elongated granu-
lation secured? —9933.
Dissolve five ounces of finely-ground resin
in a pint of spirits of wine or pure alcohol.
Shake the mixture several times during the
day and then leave for 24 hours to allow the
impurities to settle. Lfse one-third of this
solution to two-thirds spirits of wine or
alcohol. If a very fine ground is required
this second solution is again diluted. The
stronger the solution of resin the coarser the
granulation w’ill be. Clean plate thoroughly
with whiting and ammonia and dry. Slightly
incline the plate over a dish and pour the
solution over the surface. Wipe the lower
edge from time to time to prevent too much
ground collecting on it. Sway the plate
gently with a circular movement while the
ground is drying. Work in a room of
medium temperature; in very cold or very
hot rooms the ground refuses to granulate.
To get elongated granulation tilt the plate
at a fairly steep angle w’liile pouring on the
ground, and keep it at an angle while dry-
ing.
(1) Importations of tobacco into China,
manufactured and unmanufactured? (2)
Amount of Australian leaf included in above?
(3) Any tobacco manufacturers in China?
(4) Any opening for manufacturers? —9729.
(1) Figures for 1928 (latest available)
are: Leaf, 35,000,000 ILK. taels; prepared
tobacco, 300,000 H.K. taels. (2) None. (3)
More than 50. (4) The requirements of
the community seem to be already well
catered for.
(1) What is the annual value of Aus-
tralia's leading six export industries? (2)
Value of the leading six export industries of
Argentina, ? —9615.
(1) Exports from Australia, 1930-31,
in Australian c u rrency: Agriculture,
£25,889,696; pastoral, £42,102,801; dairy
and farmyard, £9,458,515; mines and quar-
ries, £17,792,866 (including bullion and
specie, £12,817,079) ; fisheries, £406,984;
forestry, £849,574; other, £3,419,893. (2)
Exports from Argentina, 1930, in sterling:
Agriculture, £124,650,195 ; livestock products
(including dairy), £59,885,352; mineral,
£49,158; fishing and hunting, £67,860; fores-
try, £3,677,955; other £2,418,233.
(1) How is a Dutch etching-bath pre-
pared? (2) What is its advantage over the
ordinary nitric bath? —9825.
(1) Chlorate of potash, 20 grammes;
hydrochloric acid, 100 grammes; water, 880
grammes. Dissolve the chlorate of potash in
hot, but not boiling, water and stir well.
When the crystals are entirely gone the
mixture is left to cool and the acid then
added. To use, keep at a temperature of
between 70 and 85deg. F., while biting is
proceeding, and place a piece of sheet asbestos
beneath the dish on the heater, with the
gas or spirit very low. The bath gives off
chlorine gas when first poured into the
dish, so keep away for a few minutes before
commencing to bite. If deep biting is de-
sired, well wash the plate from time to time
and dip into the nitric bath to clear the
slight film deposited. (2) Bites deeper than
an ordinary nitric bath, but does not enlarge
the line so much and attacks the metal more
regularly.
How is whitebait canned for export? —
9234.
The fish are packed by hand into the tins
and then subjected to cooking and “exhaust-
ing” by immersion of the tins in boiling
water or treatment in a steam retort for a
certain time, after which they are imme-
diately closed by soldering or seaming. After
closing they are subjected to a temperature
of 212 deg. F. or somewhat higher for a
quarter of an hour or so, in order to ensure
sterilisation of contents. No preservatives
are used.
(1) Is a license required by a dealer in
second-hand sewing-machines in N.S.W. 9
(2) Has there been any alteration in the
law since April, 1930?—9628.
(1) Yes. A second-hand dealer’s license
must be held by any person, other than a
shipchandler or shipowner, who carries on
the business of dealing in or buying and sell-
ing old wares of any kind. (2) No.
(1) What is the area of lib. of tanned
kangaroo leather? (2) How to clean a fur
rug? —96s6.
(1) Five to six square feet. (2) Beat
with a stick, wash with benzine, hang out
on a line to dry and comb -with a steel
comb.
(1) Is commercial art a worth-while occu-
pation for a girl who would have to pay
board in the city? (2) What are the, pros-
pects of a position at present? (3) Could a
country girl be taught by correspondence?
(4) Where could one be trained in Sydney?
—9175.
(1) Depends upon natural ability. (2)
Very poor, but there is always room for a
very gifted student who has a natural grip
of advertising. (3) Depends on the indi-
vidual. (4) East Sydney Technical College.
(1) When did the Dutch get quinine from
South America? (2) Is it a fact that, owing
to the high price charged by the Dutch dur-
ing the war the Indian Government has
planted chinchona to provide its own quinine
requirem cuts ? —9534.
(1) Seeds were brought to Europe first
in 1848 and seedlings were sent from
Jardins des Plantes to Java in 1850. Later
the Dutch Government imported a few living
plants from Peru in 1854. The credit of
acclimatising the plant was due to Sir
Clements Markham. (2) Yes, but British
industry has not been able to compete with
the Dutch, who still produce about 95 p.c.
of the world’s total.
What is the general effect of Queensland's
(1) moratorium legislation, (2) rent-reduc-
tion legislation and (3) interest-reduction
legislation? —992o.
(1) There is no general moratorium, but
under the Mortgagors Relief Act of 1931
(commenced Aug. 1) a mortgagor may applv
to the Court to postpone powers of safe
under a mortgage, and to give other appro-
priate relief, such as an extension of the
period for repayment of principal, the mak-
ing of interest only payable for a certain
period, the funding of arrears, and relief m
respect of painting, repairs and similar con-:,
ditions of the mortgage. Court means a
Magistrate’s Court where the principal
moneys remaining unpaid do not exceed ,
£2500, otherwise the Supreme Court. (2)
Under the Lessees Relief Act of 1931 (com-
mencing Dec. 16, 1931) the lessee of pre-
mises where a lease is in writing and for a
term of not less than one year may apply
to the Court for a reduction of rental, which
the Court may grant to a maximum extent
of 221 p.c., or 4s. Gd. in £. Court means
Magistrate’s Court, where rental does not
exceed £312 per annum, otherwise Supreme
Court. (3) The Financial Emergency Act
of 1931 (commencing July 1, 1931) provides
that the Court may grant reduction of the
rate of interest under a mortgage to a maxi-
mum extent of 221 p.c. or 4s. Gd. in the £,
but not so as to reduce the rate below 5 p.c.
p.a. In addition to the foregoing legislation
Queensland has the State Housing Relief
Act of 1930, applying to workers’ dwellings
and homes mortgaged to the Crown, and
the Purchasers of Homes Relief Act of 1930.
These Acts provide for relief from payments,
etc., in the case of purchasers affected by
unemployment or like causes. In the former
case the relief is at the discretion of the
Minister for Public Works, and in the latter
at the discretion of the Court.
Uses of (1) vesicant dew and (2) liquid
air? —9724.
(1) To cause blisters when placed on the
skin. (2) It is formed at one stage in the
commercial preparation of compressed
oxygen, and is used for various scientific
purposes.
Is it possible to solder the body of a
broken Tillotson carburetter? —-9912.
No, owing to the composition of the alloy
with which the body is made. Your best
plan will be to obtain a new body from the
agents for your car.
(1) In what year was the contract let for
the construction of Burrinjuck dam? . (2)
Government in power? (3) When finished?
—9627.
(1) 1909. (2) C, G. Wade’s. (3) 1928.
What ingredients are used in the manu-
facture of smoke-candles and smoke-screens?
—9945.
The Bureau of Mines smoke mixture con-
sists of zinc, 35.4 parts; carbon tetrachloride,
41.6; sodium chlorate, 9.3; ammonium chlo-
ride, 5.4; magnesium carbonate, 8.3. This
mixture, with certain modifications in pro-
portions, has been used in grenades, smoke-
candles and Stokes bombs. Zinc granules
and hexachloroethane are also used for smoke-
candles, and when ignited burn with a dense
cloud of zinc-chloride smoke. The subject
is fully covered in “Industrial and Engineer-
ing Chemistry” for April, 1921; October.
1925, and January, 1926.
How is the scale of an aneroid barometer
determined, and how many feet in altitude
does one inch represent? —9963.
The pressure of the air is measured in
inches of mercury, the vertical height of a
mercury column supported by the pressure
of the air being about 30in. In an aneroid
barometer the mercury column is replaced
by a small metal vacuum chamber and a
spring, but a scale approximating that of
the mercurial barometer is retained. The
number of feet in altitude represented by an
inch on an aneroid under average conditions
is about 940 ft.
How is gut for stringing tennis racquets
made, and from what animals? —9913.
It is made from the intestines of the
sheep, and occasionally from those of the
horse, mule or ass, lean and ill-fed animals
yielding the toughest strands. The intes-
tines are cleaned, freed from fat and steeped
for some time in water, after which their
external membranes are scraped off with a
blunt knife. They are then steeped for some
time in an alkaline lye, smoothed and equal-
ised by drawing out, subjected to the anti-
septic fumes of burning sulphur, dyed if
necessary, sorted into sizes and twisted to-
gether into cords of varying numbers of
strands, according to the purpose to which
they will be put.
Are there in ancient history any instances
of a Government altering its currency in the
interests of the farmers? If so, what hap-
pened?—4s.
An early case of the kind was that in
which Solon, entrusted by the Greeks with
the making of law’s to cope with current pro-
blems, 609 8.0., tackled the plight of the
small farmers who, owing to scarcity of
money, were unable to redeem their mort-
gages, on which they paid a very high rate
of interest. Solon so arranged matters that
73 drachmas would pay a debt of 100
drachmas. All debts to the State were can-
celled altogether.
(1) How much tobacco-leaf is used in the
manufacture of 1 lb. of manufactured tobacco?
(2) Are import and excise duties charged on
the unmanufactured leaf only , or on the
tobacco when it is manufactured? (3) What,
are they on Australian-grown and on im-
ported?—9663.
(1) The amount of ingredients added to
the pure leaf varies according to the finished
product, and is known technically as loading.
The average amount of loading in a pipe
mixture approximates 14 p.c., and in the
case of cigarettes 4 p.c. This 4 p.c. includes
the weight of papers. Import duties are
charged on the leaf only. Excise duties are
charged on the total weight of the manu-
factured product. (2) and (3) Import
duties are charged on foreign leaf only at
3s. per lib. for leaf designed for the manu-
facture of tobacco and ss. 2d. per lib. for
cigarette manufacture. Excise duties are
payable on all manufactured tobacco, irre-
spective of the source of the leaf, at 4s. 6d.
per lib. on manufactured tobacco, and 7s.
6d. per lib. on cigarettes.
Recently the Commonwealth Government
reduced superannuation pensions by 20 p.c.
(1) Arc payments by employees to be re-
duced? (2) If not, why n0t? —9468.
(1) No. (2) Because that portion of the
pension which is paid from the superannua-
tion fund, and which represents the em-
ployees’ contributions, has not been reduced.
Your statement is wrong. Superannuation
pensions have not been reduced by 20 p.c.
but only by 20 p.c. of the Commonwealth’s
contribution to them.
Brief Answers.
,i H.P.M.: We cannot undertake an investi-
gation into the private business of a public man.
! ....D.S.: Write Fisheries Branch, Chief Secretary’s
Dept., Sydney, for pamphlet. .. .D.M. ; No record is
kept of the export of various varieties of grass seed.
. ...T.C.: It is possible in a great many cases, par-
ticularly between the ages of 16 to 18, but depends
upon the amount of natural curve of the spine.
Courses which are advertised cannot be recom-
mended ... .J.C.W.: (1) Get in touch with Direc-
tor, Botanic Gardens, Sydney. (2) Apply to the
Town Clerk at Blackheath, or Katoomba. (3) and
(4) See “Boarding-housef Guide,” 'published by
N.S.W. Tourist Bureau. Sydney. (5) Get in touch
with Curator, Australian Museum. ... F.H.: The
Prudential took action about 20 years ago against
Bottomley in respect of articles in “John Bull.”
Judgment was given with costs against Bottomley.
. ...F.C.A.: Can’t say from description. Send
specimen to the Entomologist of the Department
of Agriculture, Sydney... .J.A.P.: (1) Com-
plete wool course covers 18 months, commencing
February' 1 each year, and costs £lO 10s. if all
examinations are passed. Prospects of employment
depend upon the capacity of the individual....
Mabrilander: The mutton fat should be boiled with
plenty of water and allowed to stand till cold. Take
off the fat, and scrape free of impurities. To every
pound of clarified fat allow two tablespoons castor-
oil and four ounces finely-powdered blacklead. Melt
the fat, add oil and lead and stir till cold. Store
in tins with lids... .E.H.W.: See page 18, “Handy
Hints for the Farm,” this office, Is. 2d. (posted). ...
H.J.S.: (1) Being under 16, the child is not eligible
for an invalid pension. (2) Inquiries should be
made from the Home Secretary’s Office or the Director
of State Children, Brisbane... .W.J.8.: Have the
barometer examined by an instrument-maker,...
G.L.C.: (1) The business should be conducted through
an Australian patent attorney having an associate
in each country. (2) Approximate costs: India, pro-
visional protection not obtainable; full patent, term
16 years, £24. M.L., provisional, nine months,
£5 65.; full patent, 16 years, £2O. South Africa,
provisional, nine months, £8 Bs.; full patent, 14
years, £27. .. .8.A.W.: Write Director, Civil Avia-
tion, Dept, of Defence, Melbourne (Vic.) ... .R.F.W.,:
Under the N.S.W. Moratorium Act, if the purchase)'
of the land is in arrear for two years in respect of
principal or interest and has paid nothing for six
months, 'you may take jteps to exercise your rights
under the agreement; otherwise you are helpless.
As to the dole, its grant depends on your circum-
stances as proved to the satisfaction of the autho-
rities. .. .P.L.0.: There is no reason why. A, being
a guarantor for B, should not obtain a loan from
the same lender. It is a matter in the discretion
of the lender... .8.L.W.: Depends upon agreement.
If the reduction in your own rent was partly in
consideration of you collecting the other rents, you
would not be entitled to charge; if otherwise, you
would have a right to fair remuneration. In the
absence of any explicit agreement, the fact that you
have not hitherto claimed a commission raises the
presumption of a free service... .J.C.: (1) To com-
municate with the Minister for Labor and Industry,
write to Under-Secrctary, 142 Phillip-street, Sydney;
if with regard to unemployment taxation, then to
the Commissioner of Taxation, Warwick Building,
Ilamilton-street, Sydney. (2) Yes. (3) Six days
constitute the recognised working week. (4) If a
N. S. Wales employer pays by cheque on a Victorian
bank he, and not his employee, must pay the
exchange. (6) The tax is deducted from the wage
actually paid—that is irrespective of all exchange.
. ...T.M.W.: (1) Yes. (2) and (3) The legal
practice is to have a deed poll drawn up by a
solicitor and deposited with the Registrar-General of
the State in which the person resides; the registra-
tion fee is about 2s. 6d., the solicitor’s a matter
of agreement. The change of name should be adver-
tised .... L.P.: An application to sue in forma
pauperis, i.e., as a poor person, should be addressed
to the Registrar in Divorce of the State in which
the petitioner is domiciled. In your brother’s case,
several difficulties arise and it is clearly a matter
for a solicitor... .J.C. (Longreach): (1) You are
entitled to an accurate statement of your indebted-
ness. (2) and (3) A publican cannot recover in
court on account of spirituous and fermented liquors
sold as drinks over the bar. Your wages cannot be
garnisheed. .. .G. 8.: (1) Yes. (2) See the Court
Registrar or Clerk of Petty Sessions in your district,
and he will instruct you as to procedure. A copy
of the Act can be obtained from the Government
Printer, Brisbane.... J.A.C.: Yes, you should make a
new will, and if it is made in favor of your husband
see that it is not witnessed by him... .T.A.8.: Send
full particulars to Robertson and Mullens, 107
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne... .V.0.J.: If in mint
condition, Is C.S.M.C.: Write Lecturer-in-Charge,
Tanning School, Bourke-street, Waterloo.... L.M.:
(1) Yes. (2) Comparatively few fail and failures
usually pass second test a few weeks later. (3) Yes.
.(4) Parking and gear-changing....K.S.M.: Write
Will Andrade, 173 Pitt-street, Sydney... .L.V.M.:
The Bernard Cronin Story-writing Course, 396
Flinders-lane, Melbourne.... H.L.0.: Property in
copra passed by delivery on Sunday at the quotation
applicable to it. That such quotation was super-
seded by, a higher one on Monday does not affect
your case. If illegal to deliver on the Sunday, you
committed the illegal act and cannot benefit by your
own wrong-doing. .. .T.E.E.: Consult a solicitor. You
will have a formidable adversary in a sheriff’s officer
acting under a writ of fi. /«....H.G.: (1) Only tool
apart from ordinary drawing pencils is a poker
machine, by which a sharp point of platinum is
kept very hot for burning design into wood. A good
one costs £3 to £4 in Sydney. (2) Penfold and
Co., 88 Pitt-street, Sydney, will supply catalogue
of materials. Procurable also from artcraft shops
in all large towns. (3) “Guide to Poker Work,” by
Thompson, Is. 6d., from Penfold and Co A.N.:
Write Divisional Meteorologist, Meteorological
Bureau, Sydney... .A.H.11.: (1) It has been held
that a nuisance caused by overhanging trees is
actionable; an extension of this principle might
apply to the leaves shed by them. (2) If branches
shut out free circulation of air and admission of
sunlight, you might have a claim to damages for
trespass. (3) Actual damage done by roots would
undoubtedly do so. But fighting the Council calls
for not only courage, but money. Try conciliation
first... .0.J.M.: (1) and (2) Under the N.S.W.
Dividing Fences Act, if you intend to erect a fence
you may give your neighbor a written notice that you
require him to share the cost. If he refuses or
neglects to do so within six months and has no
reasonable excuse for non-compliance, you may go
on with the work and recover half cost in court.
... .W.M.M.: Such pickers are liable to tax on all
amounts of £1 and over, paid at a rate of £2 per
week or higher, or the equivalent hourly or daily
rate, which should be collected by you 8.5.:
Write Dept, of Lands, Sydney W. 8.: (1) By the
Executive Council. (2), (3) and (4) Journalistic
experience and proved capacity to report speeches
made under Parliamentary conditions... .G. 8.: Write
W. G. McKern, Rabbit Fur Fanners’ Assoc., 67
Oastlereagh-street, Sydney M.N.D.: Write Palings,
George-street, and J. C. Williamsons, corner Market
and” Pitt streets —both Sydney (Many others
mailed.)


FARM ACCOUNTS
The articles published on The Bulletin’s Land page have been reprinted
and added to.
In these lessons the farmer who did not previously know a thing about
book-keeping is carried along, step by step, and shown how accounts are
kept. Every entry is explained in the simplest and clearest possible
language.
The object is to enable the farmer to put his business on a proper basis
and keep it there. In no other calling is it more necessary to follow every
branch of the business and see where a profit is being made and where a loss.
Many a farmer has come to grief simply through not knowing that he was
going back a little further every year. Had he known in time he might
have made changes that would have saved the situation.
The trouble about most attempts to show the farmer how to keep accounts
is that they assume he knows something about book-keeping.
The Bulletin, at the Request of scores of farm readers, decided to produce
a cheap textbook in which the whole business of book-keeping would be dealt
with from the very beginning.
The little book is published at a price which brings it within the means
of everybody. It will be sent from any Bulletin Office for sixpence, to
which must be added 2d. for postage.-
Though designed primarily for the man on the land, it will be found just
as valuable to traders and others who have hitherto had only a foggy
idea about accounts.
PRICE SIXPENCE
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Glyn Dwr”: “Shuri’s” assertion (B.
20/4/’32) that a living dodo was exhibited
in London in 1638 rests solely on the autho-
rity of Sir Hamon L’Estrange, and the latter’s
description of the “strange fowle” which he
saw “about 1638” conclusively proves that
the bird “which the keeper called a dodo”
was in reality a solitaire (Didus solitarius).
Sir Hamon described it thus: “It was some-
what bigger than the largest turky-cock,
and so legged and footed, but shorter and
thicker, and of a more erect shape, colored
before like the breast of a young cock-fesan.
and on the back of a duwne or deare color.”
Had it been a dodo Sir Hamon would have
compared it with a swan rather than a
turkey, and he would certainly have made
mention of its remarkable head, while he
would not have made use of the phrase “a
more erect shape.” Leguat’s description of
the solitaire puts the matter beyond all
doubt: “The feathers of the male are of
a brown grey color; the feet and beak are
like a turkey’s, but a little more crooked.
They are taller than turkeys; the neck is
straigliter, and a little longer in propor-
tion than a turkey’s when it lifts up its
head.”
“C.Q.”: As, I hope, a calm and detached
student of the nude cult in Melbourne I
am unable to foresee any immediate success
for a movement that has to get a good con-
science for itself by enlisting the aid of the
churches. A parson allowed himself to be
press-photographed in a drawing-room
bestowing his benediction on two young
people, one of whom was dressed in a loin-
cloth, while the other was attired in the
brassieres and panties worn by
members of Ernest Rolls’s
chorus. There was an outcry
from forces of respectability,
and the clergyman hastened to
recant by making a public de-
claration that he would sup-
port no parade of nudity which
was not strictly in accordance
with Christian principles. I am
unable to remember any Chris-
tian principde which deals with
either nudity or birth control,
which last should also, vide the
Lambeth Conference, only be
practised according to Christian
principles. I have known quite
good Christians who went about
stark naked, and I can find
nothing in the New Testament
that condemns the custom.
Nevertheless, the movement in
Melbourne is more likely to end
in nullity than nudity.
“Cadonga”: At a Rotary
Club dinner a Sydney man
found himself next to a Cali-
fornian, who held forth at great
length on the merits and beau-
ties of his section of Gahd’s own
country. It was a long time
before the Sydney-sider could
get a word in edgeways, but at
last he managed to interject
that he also knew something of
California. “That so?” ex-
claimed his neighbor. “Where
did you go?” The other men-
tioned a string of towns, ending
with San Juan. “Aw, say!”
shouted the American, “over in
California we never say it like
that. We always pronounce it San Huan.
All our J’s are like II’s; get me?” “Yes,”
replied the Sydney man; “but I was hardly
in _ California long enough to learn every-
thing. I was only there in Hune and Huly”!
“Disc Clutch”: One of the irritations of
motoring is the vibration transmitted
through the steering wheel to the driver,
especially on rough roads, this leading to a
considerable amount of fatigue at the end
of a long drive. An English firm has placed
on the market a new steering wheel with
springs instead of the usual spokes. These
are strong enough to prevent loss of control
even when making sharp turns, and are
claimed to eliminate the vibration nuisance.
“Sprocket”: Several inhabitants of Upper
Norwood, a London suburb, recently rushed
hurriedly into the nearest place where that
sort of thing is done and signed the pledge.
The reason was the appearance on the streets
of a multi-cycle, 28ft. long with 12 riders.
All the riders busily worked the pedals and,
in spite of its length, the contraption turned
the sharpest corners with ease. When things
were sorted out the explanation came. The
machine was specially designed, with flexible
connections at intervals in its long frame,
for the use of the Royal College for the
Blind. Inmates of the college made up the
riding team, with an attendant who could
see controlling the steering in the front seat.
“Kanga”: A lot of trouble has been
started in Britain by the proposal of the
authorities to standardise motor-horns so
as to insure a uniform toot from Land’s
End to John of Groats. Objectors are
pointing out that the scheme has its draw-
backs. A horn that might deafen a Midland
village would be inaudible in London traffic,
and so on. After all, there seems to be no
good reason why cars should carry horns.
Their progress is sufficiently well heralded
by the screams of their victims, or the
curses of those who have narrowly escaped
being included in that category.
“Purari”: The unsophisticated savage
can safely be described as a myth nowadays—
in Papua, at least. Taxation has never been
popular among the natives, but the baby
bonus, which is paid to the mother of four
or more children in taxable districts, is. An
instance is afforded in the Papuan annual
report One district officer takes a gloomy
view of the situation. In the past, it has
been the custom for single men and those
married individuals seeking momentary sur-
cease from domesticity to retire to the exclu-
sive depths of the “long houses,” which are
the Western Papuan equivalent of the
Union Club, in Sydney. The ladies, how-
ever, have been invading these houses, hither-
to sacred to men only. The result has been
that many families are qualifying for the
bonus, and where the deuce it is all to end
the pessimistic Resident Magistrate confesses
himself unable to see.
“The New Zealanders in England 1931”
is an interesting sketch of the activities of
the All Black cricketers during their last tour
of Britain. The leading matches are minutely
described, and the brief biographies of the
touring cricketers are of interest. The book
is marred by evidence of an anti-Australian
complex, which is out of place in a work of
this kind. The Tests against England were
THE MAN ON TOP.
OWNER : “Do you fancy ’im, Bill?”
JOCKEY: “Well, you’ve got the ’orse.”
OWNER: “Yes, but you’ve got the reins."
“rightly three-day Tests, and not those en-
durance Tests which are the delight of Aus-
tralia.” “We in New Zealand attempt to
model our cricket more on English lines than
Australian, and naturally our sympathies
are with England in Test-match encounters,”
etc. Appended are the full statistics of
the tour, and these should prove more useful
for reference.
“Thespid”: Hollywood is preparing some-
thing novel for Mailey’s men. The film city
has a small colony of Englishmen who are
cricketers, and a team of these is to meet
the Maileys. Included are such artists of
screen fame as G. Aubrey Smith (“Round-thc
corner” Smith), a slow bowler of merit and
later a distinguished actor in England, who
captained an English Test team in South
Africa in 1886 ; Desmond Roberts, who played
for Surrey when at home; Ronald Colman,
who played cricket of a sort in the film
“Raffles”; H. B. Warner, Boris Karloff and
Pat Somerset. Desmond Roberts will be
captain. The Screen v. Australia Test will
be held in conjunction with the Olympic
Games in August.
In all modesty, The Bulletin may be
compared with the British drum-beat, in
that it echoes round the world. Hardly a
mail comes in that does not bring some com-
munication from readers scattered about the
face of the habitable globe. One of the latest
to come to hand is from the secretary-trea-
surer of the Bermuda Cricket Association,
G. S. Spencer. He enclosed a letter addressed
to the secretary of the N.S.W. Cricket Asso-
ciation and asked that The Bulletin be
good enough to fill in the details of street
and number. This was done, and our good
friend Harold Heydon is now probably in
possession of the document. The Bermudian
official added in his note that his association
was hoping to' arrange a visit from the cricket
team now being steered towards Canada and
America by Arthur Mailey. If the published
itinerary of that tour is adhered to, it is
to be feared the ’Mudians will be dis-
appointed.
“Stamford Bridge”: The British Empire
Games Federation is to hold a conference of
Dominion representatives at the Los Angeles
Olympiad, to arrange for the venue of
the next British Empire Games. The first of
the series was held in London and the
second in Canada. Australian officials are
already pulling the wires to have the 1934
event in this country, either at Sydney or
Melbourne. Australia has been represented
at the previous Games, and it is felt that its
claims are excellent. Whether the others,
including the English delegates, will think
so is doubtful. Australia’s distance from
most of the other Dominions has always been
something of a handicap in affairs of this
kind. It is possible that Canada and South
Africa might undertake the journey, but it
is doubtful if Britain could get a side to go.
“D.”: The British are fighting American
films hard, and on the right lines. Last
month the Fed. of British Industries and
the T.U.C. issued a joint memorandum to
the Government urging it “to do everything
possible to assist the widespread exhibition
of British films”; and the movie palaces
are co-operating to such purpose that during
the first week in April there were actually
more Elstree products being screened in the
West End of London and in leading Bir-
mingham and Manchester houses than Holly-
wood ones. An interesting proof of the
extent to which the English are getting out
of touch with their only rivals in the talkie
business is supplied in the following from
London “Daily Dispatch” (11/4/’32) : —-
Instead of continually representing the gangster as
an awe-inspiring menace, American producers should
borrow a hint from “Innocents of Chicago” (an
Elstree picture) and poke fun at him. No human
menace is impervious to ridicule.
Any Australian film-fan could have told the
editor of the “Dispatch” that the Americans
have been codding their own gangster films
at short intervals for years. But then Aus-
tralia sees many more U.S.A. pictures than
England does. By the way, to do Hollywood
justice, it has no objection whatever to bur-
lesquing itself. It has been responsible for
all the best skits on its magnificoes—for
example, the superb one, recently shown in
Sydney, which held the Olympian Barry-
more family up to gentle ridicule.
“Taniwha”: That visit from a Maori-
land hockey team (B. 18/5/’32) can be
taken for granted, the Australian authorities
having submitted the itinerary to the M.L.
heads for approval. Under this, the side
will leave the Shivery Isles on July 15 and
reach Sydney four days later, to hop on
immediately to Brisbane. There they will
play until July 30, returning to Sydney, via
Lismore, and tackling N.S.W. on August 3.
Canberra and Goulburn will be visited, and
on returning to Sydney the team will take
part in the inter-State tourney. After a
Test against Australia on August 13, the
tourists will invade Melbourne and, return-
ing to the Ma State for a match against
Orange, will take ship for home and beauty
on August 26. The Queenslanders wanted
the team to play at the principal coastal
towns, where the game is making good head-
way, as far north as Cairns, but time will
not permit.
“Third Base”: Last year an attempt was
made to organise baseball competitions
between the various States on Sheffield
Shield lines. Victoria proved the cockroach
in the soup when it came to a vote on the
subject, so the matter has been dropped, to
be revived later. There is no doubt that
such a scheme must come. Those who can
remember the lack of public interest in
cricket before Sheffield Shield days, and the
intense revival of the game that followed the
ox-ganised competitions, will realise what a
scheme of the kind will do for baseball. At
present the excellent game is practically
housebound _in each State. Few followers
of baseball in N.S.W. can name a prominent
player of Victoria or South Australia. It is
quite the other way in cricket, and will be
in baseball when a regular inter-State sys-
tem is inaugurated, with the result that the
game will go ahead like a staff officer leaving
the front line for G.H.Q.
“Blue Chalk”: Commenting on the recent
move in Britain to limit the number of nur-
sery cannons, the billiard expert of the
“Times” advocates that this attractive method
of scoring be retained, but made harder by
having a baulkline running round the table
parallel with the cushions inside which nur-
series would be unplayable. One of the
objects of Lindrum’s visit to America is to
give the baulkline method a look-over, it
being employed on the pocketless American
tables, on which only cannons are played.
Lindrum, by the way, took on one of
America’s leading snooker-players the other
day, Andrew St. Jean by name, and beat
him by 1503 to 1396 in a three-session match.
“Hotham”: The action of the Victorian
women athletes in forming an Australian
Women’s Athletic Union in Melbourne with-
out first consulting the cats on the opposite
side of the Murray has given rise to a
storm of caterwauling in the Ma State, and
it may yet come to scratching. At a meeting
held in Sydney to consider the situation there
was much indignation at the peremptory
orders from Victoria to form a State associa-
tion and affiliate with the new body. The
few males present wisely sided with the
general opinion that the Victorian move was
based on sheer jealousy of the superior young
persons in N.S.W., and endorsed the sugges-
tion that it had been done hurriedly and
surreptitiously in order to give the Vic-
torian girls all the administrative jobs and
keep the N.S.W. flappers out. However,
after a deafening discussion, it was resolved
to obey the instructions from Victoria and
organise a State body—so that’s that.
“Carnoustie”: According to British ex-
changes, there is a move afoot to inaugurate
an annual match between British and Irish
golf professionals on the lines of that be-
tween the British and Scottish pros, which
has recently been revived after some years
of abeyance. American and British profes-
sionals already meet in the Ryder Cup com-
petition, and the system is worth extending.
The matter deserves Australia’s attention,
too. We have already some sort of an
inter-State contest in the Windeyer Cup,
but that is only for amateurs, while the
State and Australia championships arc
open to all-comers. That is not enough,
and many players would welcome the day
- —when the financial clouds roll by, of course
—-when inter-State matches on the lines of
the Sheffield Shield cricket competition
would be annual affairs. These could be
played by teams of amateurs or pros., or
preferably as “open” matches with both play-
ing together. A greatly improved golf
standard would certainly result, and that’s
one thing we need in Australia.
“Tenakoe”: Australian Rugby followers
will have a special treat when the All
Blacks make their landfall in Sydney this
month, for the manager of the side will be
Billy Wallace. As a member of the original
1905 All Blacks he made a great name for
himself, and his ability to figure with dis-
tinction in any back position was a source
of interest to the British players, wedded to the
one-man-one-job tradition. Originally selected
as a full-back with the famous side, Wallace
nevertheless played as often as centre or
wing three-quarter. Australia first saw him
in 1903, and he was here again with M.L.
sides in 1905 and 1907. He proved an
amazing scoring machine with the All Blacks
abroad in 1905, totting up 227 points—22
tries, 72 converted, and three penalty goals,
and two field goals.


EAT A NTsTLE’s TABLET EVERY DAY
“A wholesome, bitter-
sweet chocolate, blended
with choice nuts. It does
not cloy the palate and is
full of nourishment—in
fact an ideal chocolate
for men.”
m
SWE
CHOCOLATE
ITT
WITH ALMON
DS
39.
3d. 6d. & 1 /-
Nestle’s
OUTDOOR CHOCOLATE
sf
Keep hopping and hoping if yon wish
to succeed —
/CAS
X-\
f THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
If you have
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office!: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
In the early spring Segovia (Magpie—Love-
light) was raced at w.f.a. against Ammon
Ra. He will never distinguish himself in
that company, but he should leave the
ranks of the third- and fourth-raters shortly
if I. 11. Andrews can get a jockey capable
of mastering his idiosyncrasies. Favorite
(at twos) for a division of the Farm Novice
Handicap at Warwick Farm, Segovia kept
an erratic course, and lost principally on
that account; Cai’mlee (Shillinglee—Carmia)
beat him. Carmlee went out at 8 to 1, and so
did Rowan (Saltash —Bundie), who downed
the favorite, Wawina, in the other division.
Rowan’s previous appearance at the Farm
had been successful, but in the meantime
he had run a couple of poor races, and tens
were obtainable; Bartle rode him ably from
a bad position at the barrier.
The two-year-olds, 15 of them, looked a
capital lot; in fact, general impressions of
the youngsters seen out this season are dis-
tinctly favorable. J. T. Jamieson, trainer
of Ammon Ra, served up the favorite in
Timorous, a filly by Chief Ruler; —Timid.
She carried a 71b. penalty for a victory at
Menangle on the Tuesday, but it did not
stop her, and she displayed gameness in bat-
tling out a finish with Mollison’s half-sister,
High Molly. Highboy (7 to 1) would have
beaten both in another few strides; he
came with a great rush on the outside, as
his sire, Pantheon, used to do. Another
win for Bartle.
A commission for Dermid was the oui>
standing feature of the betting on the Pros-
pect Handicap. McShortodds was prepared
for it, and J. A. Donohue’s three-year-old
going TO watch the
Rugbv match TOMORROW - ''
<3ert'.*lts a mans game, isnt it - ?*
Bert*. its> a game
All right?
Qert {Nou NEVER- PLAVEO Ruqsv,
Dio vou ( Bert ?
was soon at 9to 4, in a field of 15. He won
after a bumping and exciting finish with
Vallage (8 to 1) and Anchor (10 to 1),
Sunlit Reef, Sweet Maggie and Havaspot
being close up. The betting was so _ wide as
to suggest that parties interested in other
starters backed Dermid, who was ridden by
Knox—as also was Carmlee.
The May Handicap, though there were
only six starters, provided another thrilling
finish. After Australian Belle (9 to 2) had
made the running, Cylanta (4 to 1) and
Firbolg (6 to 1) singled out in the straight
and had the thing to themselves. Just when
Firbolg looked a certainty, Coutts got
another run out of Cylanta, and that pre-
viously unfortunate gelding made a dead
heat of it. Australian Belle was a poor
third; Trenette and Mr. Kerry were next,
but both shaped badly.
The Casula Handicap furnished another
rousing race. Port Said and New King
(each sixes) were neck and neck nearly all
the way; then Sir Duninald (6 to 4) joined
them in the straight. He prevailed by a
head, Port Said being the same distance
behind New King; that horse was doing a
bit the best at the end, but was hampered
in trying to get between the others. How-
ever, that’s all in the game.
;Ji :|: :Jc
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Dundas Handicap: Sir Duninald; next,
Sunlit Reef.
Club Handicap: New King or Antiochus ;
next, Spartel.
Trial Handicap : Khartoum ; next, Akuna.
Rydalmere Mile: New King or Weotara;
next, Solicitude.
And for Randwick on Monday:—
June Stakes: Burwood ; next, Maybe.
A.J.C. Hurdle Race: Bill Jim ; next, Pris-
matic.
Novice Handicap: Segovia; next, Nord.
Ellesmere Handicap: New King or Anti-
ochus ; next, Circus Star.
Without adding much to his reputation as
a jumper, Ithuriel carried off the Federal
Hurdle at Moonee Valley. A brother to The
Dimmer ought to be a Grand National Hurdle
proposition, but Ithuriel will need to take
the Flemington obstacles better than he did
those at the Valley. It is on the cards that
he will do so, for there are some great gal-
loping stretches at headquarters, whereas
Moonee Valley is full of turns. Ithuriel
gave Sutton Grange (an outsider) a con-
siderable start over the last half-mile, yet
scored decisively. This shows that he is
very fit and has a liberal heritage of the
Spearhead stamina.
King Pos (by Mountain King) is new to
the jumping game, and fell at his Moonee
Valley outing a fortnight before. He did
better this time, helping the brilliant Iso-
crates to make the pace for more than half
the journey. Claronga kept near the front,
and flattered his backers until supplanted by
Sutton Grange at the back of the course,
where Isocrates and King Pos faded out of
the picture. Claronga was third, tie is
trained and owned by Ronald Cameron, who
won the Melbourne Cup of 1911 on The
Parisian. The beaten division was headed
by Corporal Trim, who, like Ithuriel, origi -
nally belonged to the late Ed\vard Manifold.
F. E. Shillabeer staked heavily on Horoscope,
but had a poor run for his money. Five
years ago this chestnut finished second to
Don Moon in the A.J.C. Doncaster Handi-
cap. He has paid his way over hurdles.
Alick Fullarton gave a circus-like display
of horsemanship on Precocious in the Com-
monwealth Steeplechase. The buckle con-
necting the rein with the rubber-rein bridle
on the off side broke at the third fence, and
Fullarton was left with only the near side
of the rein to guide his mount. Between
the fences he would reach forward and catch
hold of the headstall, but he had to trust
entirely to Precocious at the jumps. Those
who sent the brown gelding out a warm
favorite could not comprehend why he ran
last until the facts became public. Calfly,
the winner, is owned and trained by 11.
(“Did”) Farmer, who did so well with Agri-
colo in cross-country events a few years ago.
Calfly just squeezed home in advance of
Venetian, a stable-companion of Ancient
Mariner. Third place went to Exclusive, who
was first home in the big steeplechase at
Deloraine (Tas.) on Easter Monday, but
was disqualified for boring. Exclusive is a
brother to Broad Check, with whom H. W.
Gabell won a fine sequence of cross-country
races in Melbourne a few years ago. Wir-
rate did not run up to the form that he
revealed at Williamstown a week before, but
the manner in which he was handled left
something to be desired. Jumna showed
little improvement; More Noise, though he
parted company with the jockey, took the
fences in dashing style until the blunder
occurred,
* * *
Moray Loon, by Windbag, scored under
great difficulties in the two-year-old race,
and Lord Whittier registered a surprise vic-
tory in the Headwind Higliweight Handi-
cap. Backed down to 6 to 4, Thrawn had to
be ridden right out to capture the Mount
Alexander Handicap. “Tim” Hickenbotham,
whose father trained Carbine, annexed the
concluding event with Gracwin, a mare by
Graculus (son of Magpie). She was lucky
to beat the favorite, Aphract, who came late
on the scene.
* * * *
For Flemington on Saturday :
York Hurdle: Ocean Bound or Taciturn.
Hopetoun Steeplechase: Nauru or Pre-
cocious.
* * :f *
G. T. Rowe, who, as was generally anti-
cipated, succeeds the late C. W. Cropper
as secretary of the A.J.C., hails from Nowra,
on the N.S.W. South Coast, where he first
saw the light 51 years ago. His whole work-
ing life has been spent in the A.J.C. office,
which he entered in 1900, and he has built
up a big reputation as a racing adminis-
trator throughout Australia and Maoriland.
He was appointed assistant-secretary in 1919,
and, during the absence of his chief in
Europe a few years ago, acted as secretary
in his place. Racing is in the new secretary’s
blood, a grandfather having been lion. sec. of
the A.J.C. in its very early days when the
club raced at Homebush. His father, the
late G. W. S. Rowe, will be remembered
as secretary of the Rosehill R.C.. for 25
years, a position now filled by a brother of
the A.J.C. chief of staff.
* * * *
England goes to the Derby to-day. The
favorite is Orwell, winner of the Two
Thousand, who has Musket blood on both
sides of his pedigree. He is owned by an
Anglo-American, Washington Singer, whose
doctors have forbidden him to see the race, for
health reasons. Orwell had a great record
as a two-year-old, winning over £lB,OOO.
Miracle, second favorite, is by Manna, and is
owned by Lord Rosebery. The Aga Khan’s
two entries are Firdaussi and Dastur, by
Pharos and Solario respectively. Another
well-fancied one is Cockpen, by Buchan. He
is owned by his breeder, Lord Woolavington,
who won the classic with Captain Cuttle and
Coronach in 1922 and 1926.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
~ . , T ,
Browmng (14.3) and Lundyn (lo.ll)
butted each other senseless in the fifth rou d
ot their wrestle at Leichhardt last Saturday
night. Browning recovered farst, and, semi-
consciously flopping on Lundyn, gained the
a h ,M.o B „ r s
they pSttheirSds together result
they put then heads together, with tne result
stated.
,
r ootbrawl
In their opening match in Australia
against a Metropolitan team at Sydney,
the North of England players crush-
ingly defeated their opponents by 29-5,
or 7 tries and 4 goals to a goal and
a try. The most optimistic supporters of
the home side had little hope of victory for
their own men, but such a smothering was
not looked for. To make matters worse, if
it had not been for the multitude of penalty
kicks given against them—no fewer than 30
as against 4 incurred by Metropolitan—the
winners’ score might easily have been
doubled. It is true that the muddy condi-
tions under foot did not trouble the accus-
tomed English forwards. But neither did
the slippery ground nor the greasy ball pre-
vent the fine English back combination from
handling the ball in the ablest dry-weather
style. It should be said also in their favor
that they were only a few days off a long sea
voyage. It is impossible to find excuses for
N.S.W., who merely played as well as their
formidable opponents would let them.- The
home side was a heterogeneous one, centre-
threequarters being played on the wmg,
with other players out of their regu-
lar places. The only one to show up
well was fullback F. McMillan, who did
w p r k under trying conditions. What
the Australian selectors thought of the iorm
was shown by XIII picked to meet
visitors in fhc first Test next Monday.
McMillan, G. leaice, S. Pearce and Norman
are the. only metropolitans chosen, the bal-
ance being made up °* country and Kneem-
land players; the Bananalanders have
seven men m. Outstanding among the
Britons are Brogden a centre-threequarter of
high quality, and S. Smith, a speedy wmgei.
Hudson and Atkinson complete a class three-
quarter line. Bryn Evans and Pollard at
half and five-eighth had the opposition at
their mercy, and the fast and heavy forwards
were irresistible, while Sullivan was as good
as ever as fullback. The gate numbered
over 40,000 and only one untoward incident
occurred; the English forward Feetham was
sent to the pavilion.
* * * *
The close of the first round of Rugby
Union fixtures in Sydney on Saturday did
little to alter the relative positions of the
leading clubs in what has been one of the
closest competitions Sydney Rugby Union
football has seen. Randwick and Northern
Suburbs are now level with 9 points each:
then come Drummoyne and Western Sub-
urbs with 8 apiece, Manly and Eastern
Suburbs 6, and University and St. George 4.
Saturday’s scores: Northern v. Eastern
Suburbs’, 6-6; Randwick 13, Drummoyne 6;
Western Suburbs 32, St, George 14. AVith
University playing in Queensland, Manly
had a bye.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Rugby football has actually
made a start in S.A. The experimental
Adelaide club has found opponents in a
Naval lot, and each talks of being able
to produce a second team as well. The
newspapers speak of the play as “willing,”
the feature which always strikes anybody
used only to the Australian code,
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The good showing of the
Victorian Rugby side in Sydney and the
splendid reception accorded them by the
croW( j watching the match have aroused keen
interest in Melbourne. In the past, most
0 f Oic Rugby players have been men from
Maoriland or N.S.W., with a few Queens-
landers. . During recent seasons, however,
many local lads have been deserting the
national code for Rugby, and the side
recently in Sydney contained seven who
learned to play football under Australian
rules. A typical specimen is the big for-
ward E. Dunlop, 6ft. 24in. and 14 stone.
He is heavyweight boxing champion ot Mel-
bourne Univeristy, and is a first-rate nicker
an( j ij ne .out 0 ut man. He should get close to an
Australian cap this season if flic selectors
, their job properly,
* % *
j**™*
Saturday, mostly to their disappointment,
The , Dong went off with a burst am j kept
going so well that at the long interval they
looked to have the Red-and-Whites settled.
a different “Sowth” took a hand after
that and Essendon wasn’t in it—South,
99; ’Don, 65. Those two solid battlers
Carlton and Collingwood were more ex-
citing at Prince’s Oval, where it was
anybody’s game until near the close.
Then Carlton, lasting better, overwhelmed
the Magpie backs, and won 93 to 78.
There was little between the teams, but
Carlton’s marking was superb. St. Kiula
visited Footscray and returned with throe
men badly damaged and an uncomplimentary
opinion of the opposition—Footscray, 92;
St. Kilda, 58. Hawthorn surprised by kicking
point for point with Richmond up to half-
time; after that the Tigers got busy, and the
end was Richmond. 93; Hawthorn. 45. Simi-
larly Fitzroy shocked Geelong by reaching
half-time a few points to the good, but there-
after the real Geelong showed up and won by
130 to 78. North Melbourne made the cus-
tomary chopping block of Melbourne, win-
ning by 118 to 88.
“ Jolimount”: The Victorians are still con-
sidering the proposal to send a couple of
teams of Australian Rules football players to
the United States to appear in exhibition
matches in the hope of converting the Yanks
from their own cannibal game. It. is not
impossible that a section of the public may
take the game up, as has been the case with
Soccer, which is now played fairly extensively
in the Middle-West and West of the States.
Rugby Union also has a small following, this
mostly in regions along' tli,e borders of
Canada, where the amateur code flourishes.
In general, however, the great American
public will probably cling to its own peculiar
version of football. It has all the thrilling
horrors of gang warfare without its illegality.
(Continued on next page.)
As form indicated, the Australian Davis
Cup team flopped dismally to America, the
Yanks winning the first two singles and the
doubles. Hopman was helpless against
Shields, and though there was a promise of
Crawford’s beating Vines when rain stopped
play, the Australian finally went down 6-2,
6.4, 2-6, 6-4. Then Van Ryn and Allison took
the doubles 6-0, 6-4, 5-7. 7-5. The players
are hardly so much to blame as the Aus-
tralian authorities, who decided to challenge
in the American zone instead of the Euro-
pean. In the latter the Australians would have
had a chance of playing themselves in against
some of the weaker sides. In America it
was certain that they would be stacked up
against one of the most formidable teams
in the whole tourney after one preliminary
gallop against the fifth-rate Cubans.


England, America and the Continent
enthusiastically hailed the 4 Classic ’
Rowboat Exerciser as the greatest
scientific physical home exercising
device given to a modern world.
And now Mick Simmons
introduce it to Australia!
c
c
A
sins
wmm
■mm
X
Freight Extra
HOME
ROWBOAT
EXERCISER
A Portable, Inexpensive Home
Gymnasium lor the Whole Family!
A Fat
Reducer
A Body
Builder
A Bowing
Machine
A Abdominal
Chair
k Exhila-
rating
0 Simple
A Definitely
Effective
Medical science, physical culturists, have
unstintingly endorsed the Classic Home
Rowboat Exerciser. It is a definite sure
means to radiant health. The machine
is instantly adjustable for use by the
weakest child or the strongest athlete. It
brings every muscle of the human an-
atomy into play, and strengthens every
internal organ. Its exhilarating effect on
body and mind is apparent from the first
instant. Five minutes' daily use brings
astonishing and guaranteed results in
a week.
In action it is amazingly simple and noise-
less. Frame is of angle steel,and springs of
highly tempered tested steel. Upholstered
seat runs on rubber tyred roller bearing
wheels. Distinctive Duco two-tone finish.
Simple Exercise Chart with every machine.
Packed in Carton. Weight, 28-lbs.
See the 'Classic’ Exerciser demonstrated in the Gymnasium
Section on the Ground Floor. Remember there never has been
a device like this before. It is unquestionably the most
amazing Super-Body Builder and Reducer ever invented.
MickSimmonsltd.
720-2 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
" The Premier Sports House of Australia ”
Footbrawl
“Hotham” : The Victorian Football League
lias picked a powerful side to visit Sydney
for the match against N.S.W. at the Lricket
Ground on June 11. Cameron, of North
Melbourne, Avill be captain, and the team
includes such stars as Gordon Coventry, o
Collingwood; Hillas, of Souths; Evans an
Moloney, of Geelong; and Moriarty, ot x itz-
roy. Every club in the League is repre-
sented, and if the men can shake down
together, Sydney should have a football treat.
An iriterestifig sideshow will be the bouncing
of the ball by Prime Minister Lyons.
* * * *
“Richmond”: Whatever may be the case
with the players, Vic. League treasurers are
shaking hands with themselves over the
institution of the rule limiting extravagant
payments to players. In 1929 Carlton paid
its players £3047, a record hand-out in the
history of the game. The maximum is now
£3 a week. Any club offending against this
rule or detected in paying heavy bonuses
under any pretext forfeits £250 and loses
all premiership points scored up t 0 the time
of being carpeted.
* * =*= *
“Hooker”: For the first time in the his-
tory of the game in Sydney the Rugby Union
match, between N.S.W. and Victoria showed
a profit—£2o. Had the public appreciated
the quality of the visiting players the
amount would have been very much higher.
So keen were the Victorians that to help
to cut costs they decided to travel second
class without sleepers, and came to Sydney a
very tired lot in consequence. That is the
real sporting spirit, and it is to be hoped
that the N.S.W. authorities will take care
in future to give these promising players a
week’s football and a fair chance to show
their capacity. As it was they were hur-
ried practically from 'the train to the ground,
and as hurriedly packed off again for Mel-
bourne the following night.
* * =l= *
“Stand Off”: After the towelling admin-
istered by Victoria, the N.S.W. Rugby Union
selectors are pondering on how to get a
side together capable of extending the All
Blacks. The cold truth is that, barring Ross
and King, with three of the forwards, a
complete set of spare parts will be neces-
sary if sentiment gives way to utility. I he
best five-eighth iii Sydney to-day is Barnes,
of Western Suburbs, a young Welshman
whose claims have been sinfully neglected
this year. The stereotyped Malcolm should
be retired in favor of the Uni. half Mc-
Shane, and a new centre must be found
to replace the ineffectual Towers. One would
like to see the schoolboy Beaton in the
possie, but such an innovation would prob-
ably be too much for our dear old mud-
turtles of selectors to consider. Kelalier
should get a wing, and at least five hefty
arid willing young forwards should be col-
lected vice the tired mob that shaped so
poorly against the Victorians.
* * * *
“Brass Tacks” : Queensland Rugby League
never seems to miss a chance of stirring up
its elder sister in N.S.W. The other day
the coves in Bananaland had the nerve to
ask the Ma State body to do something about
money owing to them by country centres.
Cootamundra is £55 shy on the Queensland
share in the takings at the recent match
between the Maroons and the representa-
tives of Coota. Dubbo has owed Queens-
land £lBO since 1930 and won’t Dubbo
up, so to speak. Ma has announced that she
will see about it, and there the matter rests
for the present.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: The writer said in a recent
Bulletin that, though Jean Borotra had
definitely announced his retirement from big
tennis, it was probable that all the bold
gendarmes in France would not keep him out
of the Davis Cup. The Basque came back to
the limelight last week, when he and Oocliet
figured, with others, in a match with Eng-
land. Though perfidious Albion won hands
down —11 rubbers to B—Cochet8 —Cochet and Borotra,
a new doubles combination, won well from
Gregory and Collins. Gregory carried
off the Australian championship when the
English team was here a year or so ago.
Very accurate and steady, in this tourney
he beat the flashy Paul Feret. Feret turned
professional when the Lenglen went after
the brass, but he has been reinstated.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Italy has properly agi-
tated the bristles of European tennis by rein-
stating the professional tennis-player Palmieri
and then putting him into its Davis Cup
team. This action has started a movement
to demand that the question of these rein-
statements be definitely adjudicated upon by
the International Lawn Tennis Federation.
This will be shortly meeting in Paris, and it
is to be hoped that a final decision will be
arrived at. Sport is becoming so much pro-
fessionalised each year that even hitherto irre-
proachable amateur or semi-amateur games
are suspect. Tennis is only one of half a
dozen, and a move in the direction indicated
by the International Federation might
hearten up those in authority in other sports.
Cricket and Rugby Union football, for
example.
«5» v
“Tenakoe”: What, with two Melbourne
men rowing in the Cambridge boat and hold-
ing high office in the Boat Club, Australia
seems to be doing itself proud. Not to be
outdone, Maoriland has now hopped into the
picture, C. E. Malfroy, of the Shivery Isles,
having been elected captain of the Light Blue
tennis team in the annual match with
Oxford. Another member of the side is one
J. W. Nuthall, brother of the once-famous
Betty, who seems, by the way. to have lost
a lot of her press publicity of late.
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The contention that
tennis is a really athletic game and de-
vastating in its effects on its votaries
is not borne out by the continued success
of Brugnon, who is nearly old enough
to have been with Cambronne in the last
stand of the Old Guard at Waterloo. He
is turning out in the Davis Cup this year,
for France, of course, but as a doubles player.
Yet he cracked up the critics in the recent
tourney at Nice, which attracts all the lead-
ing tennis-players in Europe, by roundly
licking the Irish champion Rogers. The
latter, though handicapped by his great size,
rates among the best dozen players in the
United Kingdom.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: British cars had a good look-in
at the big international racing tourney in
Berlin last week. The international road
race of 121 miles was won by Earl Howe,
who averaged 109.71 m.p.h. Barnes, in an
Austin, was second, and an Ainilcar, driven
by Steinway, was third. The Grand Prix
went to Germany, Von Brauschitsch getting
his big Mercedes-Benz home first with an
average speed of 1214 m.p.h. Malcolm Camp-
bell, driving a Sunbeam, started in this
race, but had to pull out because of a
broken part.
“Glenelg”: South Australian motorists
are looking forward to a big 24-liour endur-
ance test which is to be held on June 5 and
0. The affair is under the wing ot the
Motor-cycle Club of South Australia, which
has for the first time admitted cars to this
annual event. Cars will start at two-
minute intervals, the driver being allowed
only one passenger. Competitors must drive
to a time schedule, and provide an open-
faced watch. All cars must be fully equipped,
no stripping being permitted, and a full kit
of tools must be carried, as well as spares.
All repairs and adjustments must be made
in running time.
'!» »!* -!• •»»
“Old Q.”: Brisbane saw an unusual finish
to a motor-cycle road race the other day.
The event was a 50-mile run organised by
Duulops, and the winner turned up in C.
Grundy, of Toowoomba, riding a 3|-h.p.
B.S.A. He had a fair lead in the home
straight when his engine died on him 150
yards from home. Fortunately the road
slopes gently to the winning-post, and Grundy
just coasted in by 30 seconds, the second
man, J. White, realising what had happened,
hitting his engine up for all it was worth.
# $ * *
“Hotham”: Hubert Opperman excelled
himself at Melbourne Motordrome last week
when he broke a bunch of the world’s records
for cycling on an outdoor track behind motor
pace. “Oppy’s” main objective was the 24-
liour record. This was 634 miles 774 yards,
put up in Paris by A. Walters as long ago
as 1899. In 1906 E. Bonhours did 815 miles
1408 yards on an indoor track. The Vic-
torian rider sent both sets of figures flying,
ticking off 860 miles 367 yards in the allotted
time. He went on to complete 1000 miles,
and this he covered in 28hr. 55min. 39sec.,
his average being 341 miles per hour. It
is characteristic of the fine young Australian
that he gave the whole of his share of the
gate takings, £212 6s. 7d., to the Lord
Mayor’s unemployed fund.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Colonel Damurize”: Some weeks ago I
wrote to The Bulletin announcing my
approval of the wearing of shorts by female
golf-players, this resulting from my personal
observations of two young persons on the
Hyde (N.S.W.) links. I further remarked
that, though I had given up the game fol-
lowing on the demise of my wife —sh(e
was, if you remember, at one time associate
champion of the Caroline Islands —I felt
inclined to come into the game again and join
up with the Ryde Club. I have just emerged
from retirement to inform all interested
that I have reconsidered the matter. My late
wife’s relations, all associate golfers and
most of them tipping the beam at anything
up to 20 stone, have influenced me. Their
charge against me of senile insanity failed,
of course, but their additional demand that
I should confine my golf to the sacrosanct
and guarded pleasaunces of Rose Bay has
broken my manly spirit. Sooner than that, I
renounce golf for ever.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Australian associat e
golfers are looking forward to the British
women’s championship, which will this year
be played on the new course of Staunton
Sands, in North Devon. Susie Tolhurst will
figure in it, and on this side of the globe at
any rate her chances are fancied. The
Victorian girl is probably the best woman
golfer Australia has produced, and for the
last three years has cleaned up all the local
opposition. News came to hand the other
day of her opening gallop in England at the
Beaeonsfield tournament. In wet and windy
weather, and just off the voyage, she was
not up to her best, but even then was only
five strokes worse than the winner.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: The Yankee associate golfer-
ettes avenged the licking bestowed on them
by the British flappers last year in America
by winning the return in England by five
matches to three. Mrs. Vare, who as Glenna
Collett was, and is probably, the best woman
player America has produced, went down
with the usual crash to Joyce Wethered, who
had beaten her so many times before. In
the doubles, however, she got a bit of her
own back, beating Joyce and Nell Morgan;
her partner was the American associate
champion of last year. Miss Hicks. In the
singles the English girls more than held their
own, Diana Fishwick, a 1930 championette,
of Britain, and Molly Gourlay, another title-
winner, taking their matches easily. Eng-
land fell down badly in the foursomes,
however, the putting being particularly
horrible.
* * * #
“Divot Digger”: General Depresh and
Colonel Bogey between them have failed to
quench the unfailing optimism of the Aus-
tralian golfer. Recent statistics indicate
that the Australian golf army is now far
over 100,000. Putting the weekly cost of
the game at 10s. per head —which is juist
rideeeulous, as the meenister said when his
prayer for rain was unexpectedly answered
—the yearly cost exceeds £50,000. As
a matter of fact, the expenditure must
be much higher when the cost of golf gear
to-day, club subscriptions, travelling ex-
penses. green fees and many other items
are taken into consideration. In fact, it is
doubtful if the casual player within easy
walk of a public links, having rigidly econo-
mical ideas on the subject of clubs and balls,
and doing his own caddying as well, can
make a do of it on half a thick ’un a week.
* 5? * *
“Glenelg”: Rufus Stewart has been out of
action for some months with a serious knee'
affection, and has not handled a golf club
during that time. However, he is back again!
on the job at Kooyonga club, and hopes to
be fit again for the Australian championships
in August. Since his return from the last,
British championships, the South Australian
has done little in big golf. He has the Aus-
tralian open and professional championships
to his credit, and the professional title of
Victoria to boot, and will no doubt be all the
better for his enforced spell from the fairways.
.-j: * * *
“Divot Digger”: Conditions for the
N.S.W. amateur golfing championships, which
open with the foursomes at Rose Bay on
June 11, the singles following a week later,
remain the same as last year. The handi-
cap limit for both is 9 or less, _and entrance
fees are 10s. for the singles and ss. per player
for the foursomes. In between it is intended to'
sandwich the Kirk-Windeycr contest, in.which
three Australian States, N.S.W., Victoria
and Queensland, will oppose Maoriland,
holders of the cup. The State teams will
play a knock-out over 18 holes, singles and
foursomes. The winners will then meet the
title-holders in 36 holes singles and foursomes.
Miscellaneous
“Backwoodsman”: There is a. movement
among Sydney bowlers in the direction of
tutoring neophytes in the mysteries of the
game. Its sponsors explain that this is a
recognised custom in Maoriland, where the
standard of bowls is generally much higher
than in Australia. There is a good deal
in the contention. I can recall introducing
a young black-and-white artist to his first
game of bowls. The unhappy lad had to be
taken home in a taxi, and did not turn up
to work for several days. The newcomer to
the game should certainly not be rushed
right in among the experts, but gradually
have the finer points instilled into him
—beginning, say, with small lagers—
until he is able to stand on his own feet
without hanging on to the floor, so to speak.
If the new movement catches on, I may
say that I shall be happy t 0 act as one of
the instructors —for the usual consideration,
of course.
* * * *
“Shell”: The new racing shell which was
specially ordered in Sydney by Bobby Pearce
for his appearance in the .sculling event at
the Los Angeles Olympiad was christened
at the Sydney Rowing Club last week by the
Prime Minister’s wife, Mrs. J. A. Lyons,
The name bestowed by the godmother was
Mirrabooka, which stands for the South-
ern Cross in some of the N.S.W. abo. dia-
lects. It is interesting to note the reputation
Australian-built racing boats have acquired
overseas. It is. far from unusual for noted
Melbourne and Sydney boat-building firms to
be asked to fill orders from places as far
apart as Shanghai and Vancouver.
* * # *
“Acme” : Not many folk associate Aus-
tralia with ice-skating, but this country has
a lready produced more than one skater able
t 0 hold his own with the best of the ama-
teurs in the big Continental carnivals, not-
ably in the game of ice hockey. Sydney and
Melbourne skaters have reached a high
degree of proficiency in this fascinating
game, and it is proposed to form a team to
tour Britain and the Continent during the
next winter there. C. Davies, an official
of the Sydney Ice Hockey Association, who
is at present in Europe, has made arrange-
ments for a programme of 20 matches in
England and 15 on the Continent. Phe tour
wiU occupy five months and the English
National Association will pay all expenses
from the time the team arrives in Britain,
including those incurred on the Continent,
and the return fares to Australia—a mighty
sporting offer. The team will have to leave
by mid-September a nd the personal cost to
each player will be at least £l5O, in these
hard times something to think about,
*** , * .
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lmdrum has left
England for Australia, but intends to
return in time to take part in the next Eng-
lish championship. If he does, and condi-
tions remain the same as at present, there
are not likely to be any other entries. There
is not a player living who has a hope on
equal terms with the Westralian. Probably
Walter will take nephew Horace back with
him. So far the youngster is best known as
a snooker champion, but his uncle considers
that in a few years’ time he will be among
the topnotchers in the all-round game.


81
'■ wifi
NOW OBTAINABLE
......
LAM PS
I XL CARBIDE out-of-door Lamps are
unbreakable and will not blow out tn
the wind They provide the cheapest
and simplest means of portable lighting
on farm and station.
USE IX L CARBIDE LAMPS FOR
SHEARING AND PACKING SHEDS
STATION QUARTERS, DAIRIES,
WEEK-END COTTAGES, SHACKS
AND HUTS, BARGES AND FISHING
BOATS, YACHTS, HUNTING AND
FISHING, CAMPING, ETC., ETC.
If unobtainable locally, a Lamp
for any of the above purposes
may be obtained on application to
H. JONES & CO. PTY. LTD.
Distributing Agents for Australia of
IXL CARBIDE
G.P.O. Box 639 “D, ’ ’ Hobart, Tasmania.
Priced at 3/-, plus 2/- postage.
Special Pottery Table Lamps for indoor
lighting also obtainable at 30/- each.
£5O Deposit! Balance over Two Crops
sdf
ACT AT ONCE ... if you want a
FORDSON TRACTOR
on these terms.
has never been such a
golden opportunity for farmers
who have badly wanted a Fordson
Tractor, but have held off buying
because they thought a tractor was
beyond their reach.
By an arrangement between Ford
Motor Company and the Traders
Finance Corporation Limited, you
can now obtain the improved all-
British Fordson on the remarkable
terms of £5O deposit, with the
balance, including freight, payable
over your next two crops. Only
51% per annum hiring charge will
be made on the outstanding balance.
In this way you will be able to
finalise the payments for your
Fordson Tractor out of your earn-
ings over almost three years.
This astonishing offer is made
for a limited period only. There-
fore, if you wish to secure an
all-British Fordson Tractor under
these attractive conditions, book
your order without delay. Get in
touch with your nearest Ford
dealer immediately. The cash price
of the Fordson Tractor is £220,
f.o.b. nearest Ford works; Sales
Tax extra.
Book your order now . . . these terms
will not last long.
F.N. 18
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
POVERTY POINT.
“L. de R.”: Touching Furnley Maurice’s
“Revolution,” which had a Reign of Terror
of one night at Melb. Queen’s Hall (B.
20/4/’32). The discovery that the cordite
designed for blowing up the city was bottled
beer led to the most extraordinary spectacle
present writer has seen on any Australian
stage. What with the congestion caused
by the presence of 30 conspirators and police-
men in a space measuring about 10 by 10,
and the mental confusion of the actors
obliged to drain pots of real beer instead of
stage tipple, the situation rapidly got out
of hand. Presumably at this point in the
MS. the benevolent playwright had written
“Hilarity, ad lib.” Anyhow, the histrions
emptied their mugs and then asked for more.
The curtain seemed to be uncertain whether
to come down or stay up, as the last lines
had not been said. Finally it decided they
never would be said, and reluctantly drew
a veil over the festive scene. The fact was
that the character charged with the duty of
saying the lines had got pushed on to the
outside of the throng, got sick of waiting
for an opening and cleared out.
“Modestine”: Things theatrical may be
moribund in the great world outside, but
here on Norfolk Island they are booming.
During the last few months we have seen
“Mr. Pirn Passes By,” a Chariot Revue With
all Maisie Gay’s comic stunts, “The Family
Upstairs,” “Tons of Money,” “The Ghost
Upstairs,” “The Trial of Mary Dugan,” St.
John Ervine’s “Jane Clegg” and Noel
Coward’s “Hay Fever.” In rehearsal there
are “Other Men’s Wives,” “The Barton
Mystery,” “The Perfect Alibi,” Galsworthy’s
“Granite” and “Tea for Two.” The inspira-
tion of all this activity is Bobbie Jarvis, an
English actor who did a season with Wilkie
and afterwards had two years with Leon
Gordon. The young man not only finds
talent on this 8000-acre island, but he can
rattle up full houses as well. No trouble is
encountered in casting types, as the island
is full of “characters.” Ann Ashmore, the
English magazine-writer, otherwise Mildred
Campbell, is a good all-round actress, and
Joan, Valerie and Willy Nobbs, descendants
of George Hunn Nobbs, famous in the his-
tory of Pitcairn and Norfolk, are also dis-
playing versatility.
“R. Volt” : Just as it rushed into the talkie
business when that innovation threatened its
legitimate enterprises, so the Firm has now
intruded on broadcasting. Its station is
located at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, where
a tall derrick rises from the ruins of the
gutted auditorium. It is announced that
the talent employed will be culled from the
unexampled resources of Australia’s premier
theatrical concern, and will include comedian
E. E. Ford, producer Gregan McMahon,
Mason Wood, the actor and radio announcer,
Jack O’H’agen, regarded in some circles as
Australia’s leading composer, and that
veteran of the stage Beatrice Day. Unem-
ployed actors now point to His Majesty’s
as a symbol of the decline and fall of the
fleshanblud drama. At one end is the radio
station, at the other Thring has been making
a screen musical comedy.
“Craiser” : Pianist Moiseiwitscli says that
much of the so-called modern music, such as
Honegger’s “Pacific 231,” is merely musical
joking. It may be so, though some of it is
no joke to listen to. A deliberate piece of
pleasantry is “Funeral March to My
Mother-in-law,” written by a Pole and re-
cently performed in Berlin. It is marked
allegro con brio, and is in 6/8 time.
“Lond.”: London has got just what it
wants- —though Manchester on a trial week
thought it a bit too strong—in “Helen,” an
old French opera-bouffe by Offenbach, the
libretto wittily and saucily modernised by
A. P. Herbert. Paris awarding the apple
to Venus (the dancer Yctta, with just as
little on as the Lord Chamberlain will
allow) ; Menelaus (George Robey, complete
with eyebrows, and chalking the tip of his
spear before a fight) discovering his wife,
Helen, asleep in bed with Paris; the said
Helen (Evelyn Laye) having her bath on
the stage. London just eats it up, and boasts
that there is now no.need to go across the
Channel for real stage enjoyment.
“C. Ma.”: Was there ever a more amaz-
ing phenomenon than the international cen-
sorship on Hollywood? The Chinese object
to Bible stories because they regard them
as encouraging superstitious practices.
Japan bans the Occidental kiss. Sweden
won’t have corpses at any price. Finland
boycotts the legs of girls. In England the
sound of a baby being spanked was excised.
In Singapore colored men may not be repre-
sented as besting white men at games, love
or crookery. Divorce is forbidden as a
theme in South America. Almost the whole
world revolts at the spectacle of a man
striking a cop. It is not quite clear what
Australia objects to specifically, but the
rules can be extended to cover almost every
human activity. In Victoria Prof. Osborne,
the State Censor, says that sex pathology
ought to be confined to medical books. The
only subjects left appear to be the getting-
on-in-business theme and mother-love.
“Cauboy” : History is about to repeat it-
self in connection with the forthcoming opera
season in Melbourne. As soon as the
last Melba season was mooted by the Taits
in 192 S a member of the Fuller family left
posthaste for Italy and returned with a stock
company, of the sort that can be picked up
in that land of übiquitous prima donnas
almost as easily as a pound of butter. The
co. opened at the Princess contempora-
neously with the Williamson co. at Ilis
Majesty’s. Distracted critics tramped to and
fro between the two playhouses, losing the
notes of an aria from “Traviata” only to
pick up the strains of a duet from “Trova-
torc.” In one week nine operas were re-
leased by the two enterprises. The Fuller
show no doubt profited somewhat from the
publicity given to its own outfit by J.C.W..
but, nevertheless, it languished owing to
comparisons being both odious and obvious.
The new challenge to the Firm comes from
Giuseppe Federici, a former grand operator
of the Gonsalez company. It is announced
that all the singers will be Australians and
“auditions” are in progress. A production'
of Massenet’s “Werther” is promised.
“C.Q.”: One of the popular portrait-
painters in England at the moment is
a bachelor with notoriously free habits. A
Melbourne artist was in his studio when a
boy rushed in and shouted, “Father, I want
a motor-bike.” “Am I your father?” asked
the painter with an air of mild curiosity.
“Of course you are,” said the boy. “All
right,” said the painter, pulling out a roll
of notes; “I wasn’t disputing it.”
“Cauboy”: It is doubtful whether actors
will be able to command again the salaries
that were commonplaces of old, even if legit,
reassumes its place in the amusement field.
Ada Reeve drew £350 per week at the Tivoli
in 1912, and the, Tivoli made money out of
her. At about the same time Harry Lauder
proved a profitable investment for the same
management at £6OO p.w. Most unemployed
leads would take £2O to-day—if they could
get it.
SHORT WEIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“ ‘Saint Joan’ employs a cast of 24, and many
supers.”— B. 17/2/’32.
•'By gad!” the time-worn mummer swore,
"The stage is in an evil state
When a short cast of twenty-four
Is hailed by one of us as great.
When I played ‘Lear’ in days now gone
A hundred courtiers brought me on !”
“And ‘many supers.’ they’ll engage—
A paltry dozen, I dare say!
An army corps was on the stage
At Agincourt in Rignold’s day.
•We happy few !’ Why. man alive,
We’d speaking parts for sixty-five!
“Can you recall ‘The Only Way,’
‘Sign of the Cross” or “Harbor Lights,
•The Silver King,’ ‘Ben Hur’? You may
Find casts of seven nowanights;
The bustling stage we used to see
Has now a languid ‘Tea for Three.’
“Remember Bland Holt’s stirring shows
‘Mankind,’ ‘For England,’ ‘Life of Plea-
sure’—
With parts for half a hundred pros, ?
Holt, always gave the gods good measure;
But crowds for ‘voices off’ or ‘groans’
Are now cut out by gramophones.
“True artistry this skimping kills,
The sacred fire is in eclipse,
With pints of beer reduced to gills
And microscopic whisky nips!
Anaemic actors now sip shandy—
We wooed Melpomene with brandy !”
VICTOKIA.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
With It. B. Orchard, of the watcli-shop,
and Charlie Lloyd Jones, of David Jones’s,
on the Broadcasting Commission, the pro-
grammes will still be sure of their ragtime.
It was a glittering Empire Day this year,
the first cold-blue day of the winter. Both
the G.-G. and the Governor were in town;
the visiting Japanese Admiral and our own
Cocked Hat, medal-splashed and gold-bound,
called on both, and their Excellencies, hung
about with gauds of office and aides, re-
turned the calls. Sir Philip and Lady Game
spread a lunch for Vice-Admiral Nobujiro
Imamura and some of the higher officers
of the H.I.J.M.S. Asama, the Asama re-
turning hospitality by a party of great dimen-
sions. Under the stars the city lights were
circled by bonfires in the suburbs.
The day was like a crystal bubble when
by voice and hand thousands were testifying
their loyalty in Martin-place. Here from
a platform hung with Union Jacks and
Australia’s flag, the Governor, the Chief
Justice and the Lud Mayor spoke of the
pride of Empire; and lower down the Ceno-
taph gave proof that many more thousands
than Martin-place could hold had believed
in that ideal even to the laying down of
their lives. Before the ceremony on the
dais the English football team had marched
gravely to the Cenotaph, where they had
placed a wreath while the notes of the
“Last Post” beat through the day. The
police band, too, was a stirring incident.
It led the crowds in a great outburst of
anthem singing, and presently, when “Rule
Britannia” was reached, the sky was near
to cracking asunder, with such vigor and
emotion was it fraught.
This Letter wishes it could give you a
full picture of Vinia de Loitte conducting
the . community singing in the Town Hall.
This was the rally of the Women’s Loyalty
League; and every inch of the place, the
steps leading to it and the paths around it
simply bristled with women. Perhaps to
call them daughters of the Empire would
better convey the expression in their eyes
and the determination of their singing of
“God Save” and “Land of Hope and Glory.”
Arthur Cocks was there, not so Irvingesque
a figure as the Reverend Wylie Blue, but so
vigorous of speech that rows full of women
flung back their coats to clap him the harder.
Singers Arthur Benham and Thelma Hous-
ton were other platform notables; but Vinia,
a small packet of energy and a wide smile
in a cream tunic suit, was the joystick by
which multitudinous woman soared aloft to
high C or gently planed to contralto deeps.
The laurels for the best speech at the
Royal Empire Society’s dinner adorn the
brow of Consett Stephen. It was the first
deliberately patriotic speech this Letter had
ever listened to without feeling uncomfort-
able at some point or other. The navy, the
army, the mercantile marine, the Govern-
ment of India (“though some may say we
govern by the sword, it is the sword of
Justice, a kindlier blade than the sword of
fear”) —you could have heard a pin drop
while the mellow voice fired with conviction
drew its picture of a United Empire. It
made the speeches surrounding it sound
pallid and flat, though the G.-G. struck a
vigorous note when he called upon one and
all to become at once bagmen of Empire
and consumers of its products. (Which con-
junction of the sword and the G.-G. reminded
an old campaigner of one of Isaac Isaacs’s
brilliant flashes during the Federal Conven.
tion. Isaacs was fighting the claim of the
smaller States to as many members in the
Senate as the big fellows had. “You ask for
a shield,” he said, “and you grasp a sword.”
No man of his day, the old campaigner re-
calls, could say things like that better than
Isaac Isaacs.)
The dinner was at the Wentworth, and
everything on the menu was imperially
grown, and Australian wine sparkled with
as much Swinburnian fire as ever did that
from grape grown in Gaul. The Governor
and his lady were the pets of the party,
everybody stroking their wool and tying
them up with ribbons of words. Some of
those who were loudest with their “pretty
white-lamb” cooings had been muttering
Baa, baa, black sheep” a week or two
before. Of which Sir Philip wasn’t entirely
unaware; and his speech held a few quiet
quips about the situation.
What a cargo of silks and satins, furs and
gems shone on the guests in the long mellow
room that suggested some harborage for
Empire goods, with its majestic Union Jacks
floating from its rafters! The Union Jack,
though, had not seen Muriel Lee’s fur coat
when it grew in remote Afghanistan. This
coat was a thing of beauty, and, coupled
with its wearer’s good looks, drew the eyes
of all. Amethystine shades every here and
there flushed the frocking. Lady Isaacs wore
chiffons in this warm tone. The naval
Feakeses were there, she indeed in her sleek
black velvets justifying her name—Corona.
•Nor must the Mayoral Walders be overlooked ;
her tiny coat was a mixture of ermine and
mole. Over all W. G. Layton kept a kindly
but keenly supervising eye; he was respon-
sible for stage-managing the whole. The
Justly Rawlingses, the Norman Lowes, Mrs.
Bertie Kelly (one of the most striking-look-
ing. of all, with her hair brushed straight
back from her forehead), the Roystone
Daveys, Mrs. Edmund Playfair and Deputy-
Premier Bruxner were among those who first
ate, then danced to the glory of Empire.
Talking of Afghanistan, an ex-Sydney man
who has a job in India writes that he has
been up lately in the “sealed kingdom.”
There used to be a story that it wasn’t
safe to push your- nose through the Khyber
Pass. Ex-Sydney’s story is that there are
good motor roads in most parts of Afghanis-
tan and more hospitality than he had believed
possible.
Japan’s visiting flagship Asama had gone
to no end of pains to surround her after-
noon party to Sydney with interest and
beauty. A photograph of the flagship and
a _ history of her exploits together with a
miniature Japanese flag were given to each
of the 800 guests, tiny but hoary pines and
cypresses decorated the long tea tables, and
everywhere were garlands of cherry-blossom
and wistaria. Down on the wharf warriors
in steel visors, and wearing the armor of
old Japan, fenced, thrust and feinted with
ardor and finesse. Muscles rippled like silk
in the wrestling and ju-jitsu, while the
master of ceremonies or referee went about
his affairs in a green and red blazoned
kimono, a fan and a black helmet.
Vice-Admiral Imamura and his officers,
looking very efficient, stood with the Consul-
General for Japan and Mrs. Inoue to
receive. All the vice-regals were aboard:
the G.-G. and Lady Isaacs, Sir Philip and
Lady Game and Mrs. Sefton Cullen, who is
a sort of vice-regal, being the G.-G.’s daugh-
ter. Australia’s Admiral Daglish paid his
respects, and the wife of Premier Stevens
was a much-gazed-at—she was making her
first appearance as Premier’s wife at a big
social gathering.
At least one ca'ndidate for North Sydney
will need no introduction. She is Dr. Lucy
Gullett, who is standing as an Independent.
For the past
decade this
public-spirited
woman has
lived and prac-
tised at Kirri-
billi, and all
her life has
been int i-
mately con-
nected with
the north
side of the
harbor. In her
girlhood, her
father, one of
the most bril-
liant journal-
ists of his
day, had his
home up near
Warrawee. All
the city’s
p h ilanthropie
movements for
the betterment of women and children have
had Dr. Lucy’s support, but now she feels
that as a duty to her sex she should offer to
take her share of the work of cleaning up
the State’s litter. She points out that Aus-
tralia lags far behind other countries in
that its laws are all man-made, and she
pleads for a chance to put the woman’s view.
Dorothy Welding made this picture.
“We call him Phar Lap,” said Claude
Kingston, waving a hand toward Michele
Fiore, “because he is a great goer.” He is
in the cast of nearly every opera, even such
widely-separated ones as “The Barber” and
“Tosca.” But on the opening of “Caval-
leria” and “Pagliacci” he had a night off.
Already the singers who knew little or no
English when they arrived are airing a fairly
extensive vocabulary. Lina Paliughi,
wrapped in a bright shawl, slid up to the
popular manager on the way to her box:
“A-10, Mr. Kingston! ’Ow to-night you
must be? Veree welli?”
As far as the audience went, Mrs Sep
Levy, Mrs. Tom Rolin and Mrs. Bertie Kelly
were the belles of the night. None of the
bright young things could take the shine
from them. Mrs. Kelly’s platinum hair had
gardenias tucked into it above the right ear,
and Mrs. Sep got her results from black satin
and squirrel. Up in the circle Jean Drum-
mond’s slenderness was wrapped in flowing
peach-pink lace, and Dr. Garnet Halloran’s
wife expressed herself effectively in w'hite
moire. Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Tait, having
seen daughter Dorothy wedded, toasted and
off on her honeymoon, were there in their
usual box. Mrs. Harold Vale, in pink,
looked Greta Garbo-ish, and General and
Mrs. Macarthur Onslow were others who
applauded.
The Forum is the first club in Sydney to
have its own theatre, and in the audience at
the opening—neatly managed by Chief Jus-
tice Street —were many intellectuals, as well
as people of the commercial theatre. Knight
Alexander Gordon and his lady, the Kelso
Kings, Sarah Hynes and the Claude Lightol-
lers were there, and near by were the two
Fuller couples. Mrs. W. J. Chandler was
responsible for the stage setting of royal
blue and gold, and Mrs. A. Quinn watched
daughter Adele add grace to Sutro’s “Open
Door.”
This pretty youngster is Betty Suttor, who,
at 17, is already known to Sydney as an
actress and a
writer of one-
ac t plays.
This talent of
hers is inherit-
ed from her
mother, Mrs,
Hope Suttor,
who as Hope
Mayne played
young-girl
parts with the
Broughs in the
days when
Mad g e and
Lily Tither-
adge were try-
ing their
wings. Betty’s
best work to
date was the
heroine in
Shaw’s “Pyg-
malion and
Galatea,” and
as the girl in Philip J ohnson’s fantastic “The
Lovely Miracle,” which was one of the two
plays on the opening programme of the
Forum Theatre last week.
The J. W. Macarthur-Onslows, of Gilbulla,
and Miss Sibella, of Camden Park, have
swapped houses. She owns Camden Parle,
but her brother is the head of the family, and
has an heir to whom the place will presum-
ably go.
Dorothy Tait answered the call to Wear
More Wool by having her wedding frock
made of wool lace. Pure white and very
light and fluffy in effect, it cascaded in a
foaxn of frills, and, to complete the snow-
maiden effect, its train was of tulle, crisp as
frost. This train started at the shoulders
and floated out for yards. Following it came
sister Mrs. Jimmy Bancks and Alison Smith
in caramel-brown frocks, marocain up to
their bodices of beige-toned Irish crochet,
unusual but rather dull in a wedding pro-
cession. These frocks wore the revers of the
moment and long brown tightly-fitting
sleeves. Their golden felt hats were Dolly
Yardenish, and the upturned side-brims were
filled in with blooms of wallflower hues.
Their hands w r ere overbrimming with ger-
beras and autumn leaves; but Dorothy, being
the bride of an American, of course, carried
orchids. The ’groom is Byron Wrigley, from
Philadelphia—one of the chewing-gum
Wrigleys. St. Mark’s, at Darling Point, was
bright with flowers and candles, and “Fir-
enze,” the E. J. Taits’ home, provided the
toast accompaniments for the sixty or so
guests. Here Mrs. Tait stepped into the
picture, small and effective in her burgundy-
toned outfit. The Wrigleys were among the
passengers by the Mariposa,.
_ Bananalanders were very proud the other
night when they arrived in great numbers
at the Pickwick Club to cheer Molly de
Gunst and Audrey Anderson still further on
the road to fame. Molly, who has made a
stir as an opera singer (last week her Tosca
was as glittering"a success as her Aida), is
a Bundaberg girl, and Audrey has come back
to Australia after study in Leipzig and her
London recitals to take another look at her
native northern State. Mrs. Hubert Fair-
fax and Mr. W. G. Layton surrounded the
little pai'ty with something of the grand
manner. Nor in the success of the daughters
did they overlook the sacrifice of the parents,
who not only gave them the facilities for
study, but suffered their absence from home.
Mrs. Fairfax struck this note in her thought-
ful little speech, and then handed over clus-
ters of deep red roses to each artist. Molly’s
father and mother, who had just arrived in
Sydney, didn’t come to the party. They were
travel-tired, and were saving their emo-
tion to share in their daughter’s triumph in
“Tosca” the following night.
Government House had an air of brisk-
ness the other morning when the committees
of the Returned Soldiers’ League and Fur-
lough House met to arrange the Peace Ball
which will help both soldier causes. It is
to he held on July 19 in the Blaxland Gal-
leries, and as funds are urgently needed there
is to be an intensive ticket-selling campaign.
If Lady Game’s plea is heeded the supper
will be of the couee-and-sandwicii order, in
order that the profits may be swollen to their
utmost. Colonel Murphy is the secretary.
Mrs. Dick Hudson (the Hudsons are to
the South Island what the Arnotts are here)
has been visiting Sydney, and the other day
was the centre of a big party of the Enzed
Women’s Association. Besides, being a song-
bird of note, Mrs. Hudson is president of
the Otago Women’s Hockey Association, and
an officebearer of Dunedin’s Free Kinder-
gartens, Choral Society and Women’s Club;
and so there were many strings drawing
Maorilanders to the gathering. In the crush
were Amy Murphy and Nellie Black, both
known to theatre audiences in Australia.
Sister A. B. Parry, tireless worker in the
interests of St. John Ambulance, is going off
on six months’ sick leave. But even on holi-
day there is intention on her pafrt of doing
a little study of ambulance and hospital
work. Abbotsleigh College and Prince
Alfred’s were this very good citizen’s train-
ing-ground; then she served as an army
sister, and was for a time matron on the
transport Ulysses. She has been secretary
to St. John since 1920.
Brisbane enjoys its winter:—
The post-graduate students of the B.M:A. had a
dance and card evening at Lennon’s. Pink and red
roses decked the supper-tables. Dr. and Mrs. E. S.
Meyers received the many guests, Mrs. Meyers wear-
ing burnt orange georgette and carrying cloth of
gold roses. Mrs. W, N. Robertson wore lapis-lazuli
blue; Mrs. Ellis Murphy, ivory and silver; Mrs.
Neville Sutton, white lace. In the throng were
Drs. J. G. Edwards (Sydney), Littlejohn (Melb.)
and J. F. McKeddle (Vic.), Prof, and Mrs. E. J.
Goddard and Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Thomson. Many
country doctors were in town and Mrs. Ellis Murphy
had a bridge party for their wives in the afternoon.
Nell Douglas Graham and lan Vallentine 'staged
a Spanish farce, “Take Two from One,” which was
well acted and received. Mary Kessell played Diana
in lacquer red ; Mrs. P. J. Symes was Miss Turner,
in beige lace and georgette; Marjorie Mant, as Mar-
garita, wore floral georgette and white voile with
Russiam embroidery alternately; Dorothy Webster, as
Bianca, was smart in backless black georgette;
Gynneth Henchman, in white georgette, was Astrid.
Honors went to Miss Graham as Juliana, and Mary
Kessell’s Diana was remarkably good. Administrator
Blair and his lady were in the audience.
A kick-off to the dancing season was given by the
Navy, Army and Air Force Ball at the Trocadero.
Vickers guns, a torpedo from H.M.A.S. Australia,
binnacles and compasses from the Gayndah and the
navigation lights of the Emden were combined with
flags and ensigns for the decorations. Brigadier-
General S. M. Ralph presided over the committee.
The Blair lady wore cornflower-blue Malines lace;
Mayoress Greene was in black with touches of white;
Mrs. E. M. Ralph wore black lace; Mrs. McFarlane
chose Egyptian red and gold; Eileen Ralph, a deb.,
wore magnolia marocain, and Joan Spencer, another
deb., sported cream Duchess satin. Mesdames F.
Lorenzo and J. Graven were in black; Marie Magee
wore orange mariette, and Marie Lorenzo . mastic
silk lace.
Grammar Old Girls’ dance was on the same 1 night,
Kathleen Lilley, in black mariette, receiving. Palms,
flags and pennants dressed the hall; roses and
chrysanthemums the dining-room for supper.
Gyrus A. MacFarlane, of the Brisbane “Daily
Mail,” died at his home at Annerley from pneumonia,
after a few days’ illness. He was a much-liked man
and, with his erect carriage and white hair, looked
like an archbishop rather than journalist and astro-
nomer, His father, John MacFarlane, was a pioneer
of the Clarence district, and Cyrus w T as born in
N.S.W. He edited the Brisbane “Daily Mail” for
many years, and helped to found the “Sunday Mail.”
He was also a member of the R.A.S. His < wife,
president of the Kangaroo Point branch of the G.W.A.
and an active charity worker, survives him.
Mrs. Percy Rylance had a party at Curringin,
Ascot, for Jessie Dickson, who is to marry Rodney
MacDonald—a bridge and linen tea. Prizes were
won by Miss M. Armstrong and Mrs. Arthur Baynes,
who transferred them to the guest of honor. , Everil
Trude and Peggy Dodds were among the guests.
A musical and bridge benefit for the limbless
soldiers was held in the South Brisbane Tech. The
Mayoress was president of the committee. The Blair
lady was there in navy, and Mrs. J. W. Greene, in
bronze crepe de Chine, presented her with pink roses.
At St. Andrew’s, James, son of the Goudies of
Sydney, married Heather, daughter of the late Hervey
Woodcrafts. The bride was in white satin and a
veil of Brussels net. Esmee Francis and Margaret
Byron ’maided in Nile green.
James Smith, who hails from Torquay, England,
married Una, daughter of the J. McWhinneys, of
Red Hill, at All Saints’, Wickham-terrace.' The
bride wore shell-pink georgette with a hand-
’broidered tulle veil and posy of pink roses. Edna
Smith, in pale pink, and Mavis McWhinney, in deeper
pink, were her attendants.
The Queensland Royal Golfers had their first dance
of the season in connection with the championship
tourney. The Lud Mayor and Mayoress were'there,
Mrs. Greene wearing ivory ninon and a silver lam 6
coat; Mrs. Brown, who, with president George Brown,
met the guests, wore black lace. The captain of
the associates, Mrs. R. H. Gumming, wore grey lace
and georgette.
G [?]ed View of The Maclcod Gallery.
Vi sit the Australian Art Exhibition, the Macleod Gallery, Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street, Sydney. Selected works by all the best-known
Australian Artists for sale.


Mark Everything With
sdf
c§
Theysafeguardall appareland household
linen. Neat, Distinctive and Fadeless.
“A Few Stitches and They’re on.”
<O.
Actual Size, Style No. 6.
THE PRICES ARC MODERATE.
12 doz. 7/6, 6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
SOLD BT LEADING DRAPERS.
Write for Name Circular to
J. a J. CASH AUSTRALIAN WEAVING CO. PTT, LTD.
SS CUBITT STREET. RICHMOND MELB.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’o - Directors: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
CRITERION: THE BARRETTS OF
WIMPOLE STREET.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: BLUE ROSES.
With MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RLTCHARD.
4
COMPOUND ESSENCE
OF LINSEED
<s£or
COUCHS
HTHE only two Australian newspapers
whose reviews of the wonderful
colored picture issue of “The Times
Weekly Edition” were quoted in “The
Times” were “The Argus” and
“THE BARRIER MINER,”
one a metropolitan and the other a
provincial daily newspaper.
All the Broken Hill people and the Far West
people are proud to see their own daily paper
thus picked out by ‘‘The Thunderer” as repre-
sentative of Australia.
Missing Friends.
STENHOUSE.
\Y7 ANTED. —Present address of DAVID
W STENHOUSE, late of 119 James
Street, Leichhardt. Sydney, to his advan-
tage. V. F. KIRWAN, Solicitor, 119
Stephen’s Green, Dublin, Ireland.
To Let.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
Rental, £25 per week.
Apply, Trustees, Box 517 H, G.P.0.,
Brisbane.
Sour Stomach
Sick Headache
Nervous Indigestion
GONE
This outstanding discovery quickly relieves
acidosis, upset stomach, nervous ifyspepsia,
acid rheumatism and related disorders. People
who can never eat what they like, who are
always weak, ailing and in pain say “Cream
of Yeast” is the greatest tonic revitaiiser and
relief-giver known. It includes a concentrate
of Yeast (without gas-forming features) and
other valuable medicinals recommended by
doctors the world over. “Cream of Yeast” is
quick —makes you feel better and brighter in
a few minutes; stops the “nerviness,” reduces
the craving for cigarette after cigarette;
calms; gives strength; restores. Weak, ailing
men and women find it the greatest, handiest
boon they’ve ever tried —famous people say
there’s no better medicine at any price, yet
a flask of 24 “Cream of Yeast” Tablets costs
only 1/11 at any chemist’s.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Deputy-Governor Irvine and his lady,
who was arrayed in a suit of navy blue
with blending millinery, were guests at lun-
cheon at Moonee Valley, along with Premier
Argyle and his lady, a study in black and
white; Lady Chaytor, who was in coat and
skirt of nut-brown wool de Chine topped by
matching'felt hat; and the Lud Mayor. Mrs.
Esmond Lillies, a daughter of the Argyles,
was with Lady Chaytor. Mrs. Forbes Mac-
Kenzie and Mrs. J. H. Moss, the last-named
in a lovely squirrel coat; Alderman F.
Stapley and his wife; the Fred Kitchens;
Mr. and Mrs. James Purves, she wearing-
pointed fox furs with her navy suit; Mrs.
A. V. Iliskens and Mayor Reid, of Essendon,
and his wife were others who enjoyed the
outing. Mrs. J. J. Dwyer was there with a
party which included Mrs. E. Kelly, of
Sydney, who is at present her guest, along
with her daughter Joy. Mr. and Mrs. P.
Frankenberg, Mrs, A. V. Kewney and Mrs.
Murray Heffernan, of Sydney, were also
among patrollers of the lawn.
Sponsored by the junior auxiliary of the
Institute of Pacific Relations, an entertain-
ment consisting of short plays and sketches,
with “The Coffee Cantata” of J. S. Bach
as central attraction, drew a nearly-full house
to the Comedy on Saturday night. Mrs.
Norman Brookes, Mrs. Fred Eggleston, Mrs.
George Langridge, Marie de Bavay and
Mary Emmerton controlled a bevy of girls
who sold programmes and sweets. Among
these young people were the Norman
Brookeses’ three daughters, Cynthia, Elaine
and Hersey; Jean Eggleston, arrayed in
black chiffon; Mary Guy Smith and Jill
Page, from the Apple Isle. Lud Mayor
Smith was in a box with Mrs. Harry Emmer-
ton and others of the Women’s Auxiliary
and central executive. Among those who
streamed into the pretty little theatre were
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Whitelaw, from Eng-
land, she sporting an ermine coat with a
sable collar ; Mrs. F. Thiel; Mr. and Mrs. T.
Wood, and Mrs. Percy Blackbourn and her
niece Colin Campbell Smith, from Nelson
(M.L.). The Bach number, for which the
performers wore costumes and frocks of
1732, was delightfully played. Harry Han-
non was the stern father who objected to
his daughter’s passion for drinking coffee,
Carrie Cairnduff was the daughter, and
Phoebe Barton was the other soloist.
The Queenslanders’ Association had an
evening at the Australia, where members
amused themselves with music, dancing and
bridge. A slogan competition was won by
G. L. Strickland, his wife’s effort being a
close second. Bronwyn Fairholm, of Charters
Towers, lifted her fine soprano voice in
several numbers, and comedian George Wal-
lace, also a Bananalander, told humorous
stories. The president, Brigadier-General
Brand, brought his daughter Leonie, who
wore a frock of pink satin. Mrs. T. J.
Ryan, who is on the executive committee,
came in pale-grey georgette, with a wee cape
scattered with rhinestones. Mr. and Mrs.
Richard Gipps, Prof, and Mrs. W. J. Young,
of Townsville, and Mrs. Kingsbury were in
the throng.
At a mannequin parade of Australian-
made silken undies many new ideas were
brought forward. Chief among the new lines
are princess slips, lengthier than formerly
and having the top in brassiere mode. This
is a very necessary foundation for the
present long skirts and cling-tight bodices.
Those in black and white should prove
popular. Long brassieres in various shades
and black pyjamas with long coats with
bright embroidery, suggesting fascinating-
lounge suits, were other novelties. Berets
with matching scarves were likewise
paraded. Some fresh hues of lingerie are
honeymelon (a golden pink), spring (pale
green), skinglow and mauve-bloom.
Doris Moffatt, wearing black cloth and
satin and a dash of emerald green in her
black hat, poured tea at Menzies’ by way
of au revoir to Mrs. Russell Gabb. A frock
of ruby-red wool de Chine with a felt hat
of the same shade and sable furs were
sported by the traveller, who left with her
daughter Jean in the Narkunda.
The Sandringham golf links and club-
house were lent for a tournament that bene-
fited the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Children. Mrs. Austin Gate-
house was the organiser, and the compe-
titions included foursomes, putting and
such.
Clothes were the magnet that drew hun-
dreds of women and a sprinkling of men
to the Town Hall on Friday afternoon and
swelled the Lud Mayor’s fund thereby. Lady
Chaytor, who is boosting British manufac-
tures, was responsible for the happy thought,
and she was the lecturer on “Personality in
Dress,” which the glad rags illustrated.
Madge Elliott headed the mannequins, who
included several of the chorus and ballet of
“Blue Roses,” along with some of the girls
from George and George’s. Margery
H'icklin, in beige lace and fur and mole
velvet hat, warbled at intervals, and a
“tennis ballet” was furnished by. dancers
from the Theatre Royal. The Elise Steel
string quartette provided accompaniment for
speech and promenade. All in chiffon velvet,
two of the instrumentalists were in tints of
leaf-green and the others in mastic and dark-
fawn shades. Mrs. Norman Brookes, with
some red roses upon her mink coat, allied
to a brown felt hat, introduced Lady Chay-
tor. Madge Elliott wore a black georgette
gown of princess mode with a back and an
almost prudish V front. A detachable
jackette of black velvet with puff sleeves,
scattered with white sequins, went with this
creation. A regular spring idyll was a prim-
rose-colored wool lace frock displayed by
Jessica Harcourt. A sash of paler yellow
and the faintest green wandered down the
back of the skirt in waterfall fashion. A
soft black frock, having similar drapery, was
lovely.
Amelita Galli-Curci, stepping off the Adel-
aide express after a very cold trip, managed
to retain an air of brightness and energy
With flashing eyes—they are green, shot
with amber —she explained that the banks
in the U.S.A. are full of money but every-
one feared to spend—-“the people tightened
up their purses and would not let the
money roll.” “Melbourne,” she said, “I
remember as a chic town where you can buy
the loveliest woollen things. Now where
is the best place I could go to buy some?”
The singer, who is accompanied by her
pianist husband Homer Samuels and flautist
Raymond Williams, comes to us from South
Africa. It is seven years since she was last
in Australia.
Galli-Curci faced her audience at the
Town Hall in a gown of silver white lame,
from which floated into a train flounces of
white tulle. There was a glitter down one
side of the bodice, and she wore a couple of
ropes of pearls with a sparkling clasp in the
neck coil of her black hair.
Girl Guides of the Berwick, Dandcnong and
Beacon sfield troops gathered at a tea-party
given by Miss Ada Armytage at her home,
Holm Park, Beaconsfield. The hostess, who
shows a great personal interest in the Girl
Guides and Boy Scouts, gave them a fine
time. Her gown was of dull green wool
georgette, worn with a velvet hat of the
same shade.
Pictured here by Broothorn is the wife
of Tan Macfarlan. our new Chief Secretary
— h c was
A ttorney-
General in the
short -lived
McP herson
Gov ernment.
Mrs. Macfar-
lan is a daugh-
ter of the late
Colonel Harry
J. King, of
M e 1 b o urne,
and she is a
student in the
p ainting
school of the
National Gal-
lery. She de-
signed the
costumes for
a recent
charity per-
formance o f
“Le Mariage
Force” and
collaborated with Mrs. Montgomery, Nan
Montgomery and Miss Hill in fashioning the
frog masks and costumes used at the Lud
Mayor’s party on the eve of Mr. and Mrs.
James Dyer’s departure for Paris.
The Welfare Circle of the R.A.C., headed
by Mrs. H. J. Robertson, engineered a
bridge party at the club to help the aged
blind.
Dr. Louisa Bosschart, of Malvern, who
hangs out her plate in Collins-street,
changed her name on May 21 to that of
Mrs. William Parker Allen. The knot-tying
was at the Methodist Church, Armadale,
the bride dressing her role in an ivory satin
gown of bustle mode with additions of
Brussels lace, tulle and an armful of
orchids, lilies and other white blooms. Her
sister, Miss J. Bosschart, as attendant
maid, wore leaf-green chiffon with a blend-
ing felt hat.
When Ellinor. only daughter of the W. B.
P. Fells, of Metung, wedded Eric, third son
of Mrs. Charles Gooch, of Dongarra. West-
ralia, at St. John’s, Metung, her Honiton
lace veil descended from a coronet of orange-
buds and cascaded as a train over a gown
of vellum-toned satin and a velvet jackette.
Two ’maids were garbed in soft green velvet,
their hair wreathed with leaves.
Just broadcast is the news of the engage-
ment of Elizabeth, second daughter of the
A. J. Staughtons, of Terang, and John,
third son of the late G. F. Larritt and of
Mrs. Larritt, of South Yarra.
Some time ago the Woman’s Letter, re-
ferring to a clever Sydney girl, said that
her “pass in the Intermediate when she was
14 still remains an unbroken record.” That
may be true of N.S.W., but Ballarat, that
formidable centre of culture, rises to say
it isn’t an Australian record. Betty Simons,
daughter of an Inky Way follower in that
city, passed her Intermediate at 13, and got
her Leaving Certificate the following year.
She won an exhibition and also a free place
at Melb. Uni. at 15, and qualified for her
B. before she was 19. She is now
bacteriologist to a Melb. dairy co.
To help the Try Society, a series of com-
petitions on the same lines as the famous
Ballarat eisteddfod has been planned fov
July. Entries close on June 27, and Ruby
Thornton, competition secretary, the Try
Society, Hawksburn, will tell inquirers all
about it.
The good-looking Yera de Bavay has
booked a passage to Europe in the Oronsay,
which sailed on the last day of May. She
intends to stay with friends in England for
some time and later will tour the Continent.
Dorothy Shiel, a young rider to hounds,
who has won many prizes at point-to-point
meetings and gymkhanas, has been the first
of her sex to school a jumper over Fleming-
ton timber. Her horse Precocious, with the
owner atop, cleared 14 fences, including
“Jumbo,” without accident.
This is not a portrait of Queen Victoria,
but an impersonation of the royal lady by
Dr. Constance
Ellis—one of
the best-
known of our
women medi-
coes. At the
I n ternational
Gala and
Pageant of
some months
ago, Dr. Ellis
posed as Kip-
ling’s ‘‘Widow
of Windsor”
(a phrase
which, so
Court tattle
had it, miglit-
i 1 y offended
the Queen),
and at the
exhibition of
antiques she
was prevailed
upon to dress
up again and join in a parade of characters
in early-Victorian costume. Her cap was
made by a milliner who was trained in the
London establishment where Victoria Regina
ordered her bonnets. Pegg Clarke made the
photograph.
Dr. Argyle is the third member of the
Melbourne Club to be Premier this century.
William Irvine and William McPherson,
two fellow-knights, were the others. While
delighted at Argyle’s elevation, the Collins-
street consistory, as becomes an institution
of such perfect poise, is betraying no elation.
It has had somebody in most non-Labor
Ministries, and Upper House President
Frank Clarke, a K.8.E., has been a link with
State Parliament since 1923.
The death', at 73, of Mrs. J. Law removes
a widely-esteemed charity and social worker
who for nearly a half-century had labored
in the cause of the poor and the suffering,
especially of the north-east. When there
was neither doctor nor hospital in the re-
mote Alpine regions, the devoted lady jour-
neyed far and near, personally caring for
the sick and relieving J:he distressed. Self-
sacrifice characterised the whole of her life.
Her husband, proprietor of the Tallangatta
“Herald,” is one of the oldest stalwarts of
our provincial press.
Mona Nugent, who holds the Mus. Bac.
degree of the Melbourne Uni. and went
abroad about a year ago, has made a begin-
ning of her career in Paris as soprano solo-
ist in the American Cathedral of the Holy
Trinity. Madame Dinh Gilly, who is train-
ing her, thinks highly of this Australian’s
voice.
Major-General J. H. Bruche and Mrs.
Bruche are welcoming their daughter. Mrs.
W. Ardsmith, who travelled from India on
the P. and O. liner Carthage’s maiden trip
to Australia.
Mrs. Fritz Hart, while waiting for a tram,
slipped on a safety zone in Collins-street and
broke her leg. Reports from Mt. St. Evins
Hospital state that she is making good pro-
gress .towards recovery.
Perth airs its pretties:—
Wool Week came with a bang. A dress parade
gave spice to the races, where 30 wool-clad society
maidens took a walk upon the lawn in single file.
Helen Murray, one of the tallest mannequins, pinned
her faith to a tailored garment of black cloth,
relieved with white and a dash of red. Dorothy
Mosey displayed a green sports suit with lovely
furs. Black bull’s-eye buttons blinked upon Barbara
Clarke’s Neapolitan-blue rep. An attractive pair were
Rita MeGibbon, in her pigeon-grey caped frock and
pale green accessories, and Betty Blackman, wrapped
to the ears in a brown fur coat. Gwenyth Ambrose
and Maimie Brown chose jumbuck’s fleece in billiard-
table greens. Elizabeth Edwards stepped the lawns
in blue and a dash of cherry pipings on her Glen-
garry hat, and Margaret Paton was a trim brunette
in black. Among the punters were Mrs. Marillier,
in nutmeg-browns, and Mrs. J. P. Dwyer, whose
black hat boasted a little quill, her tailored coat
being trimmed with clumps of Persian lamb. The
De Bernales girls were worthy of an extra glance,
Daphne with her softly-rolled hair upon her lily-
white neck, and Betty in a sumptuously furred coat.
Pearlie Lovekin, Miss Letcher and the Harry
Vowles couple, with the latter’s children, are all
off together on the Oronsay. Miss Lovekin and
Miss Letcher will stay in England indefinitely, and
Mr. Vowles hopes to enjoy an orgy of music on
the Continent.
St. George’s College was all of a flutter for its
ball. Floodlights traced golden pathways through
the grounds and the stained-glass windows were
thrown into colored relief through illuminations in
the chapel. The young things danced in the hall
and supped among the cloisters. Mrs. Whitfeld, wear-
ing a floral symphony allied to black lace, came
with the Vice-Chancellor. Miss Whiteley was in black
and the Archbishop’s daughter trailed coral chiffons.
The always-smiling Savage girls enjoyed themselves in
black and pale green respectively. Betty Smith
melted into luscious blue velvets. Another Betty in
blue was a lass of the Drake-Brockman clan, who
chose a fluffy ninon.
The Uni. Wanderers’ Club, which delves into
literature and art, took a tip from the hardy
pioneers and went tramping in the Darling Ranges.
Dame Sybil Thorndike, with husband Lewis Casson
and son Christopher, joined in and a. jolly time was
had by all.
The bright young things of South Perth staged
a Full-moon Frolic and made it a huge success.
The party was in. the Pagoda, all a melting golden
cloud of wattle and greenery. Betty Simpson, in
apple green, and Joan Drummond, in shrimp-pink
chiffons, had dual control of the secretarial helm.
Edith Barrymore sported flame georgettes and had
a garland of blossoms round her hair. Kitty Macart-
ney was all ivory satins; Betty Bolton wore an
up-to-the-minute black garment with sparkling
shoulder straps, and Betty Sewell’s black lace was
relieved with a necklet of green flowers.
Adelaide’s chronicles: —-
Galli-Curci’s concerts have been packed with en-
thusiastic audiences, and on the last night they
were turned away. Apart from her singing, her
toilettes have been a delight to the women.
A bridge party under the auspices of the English-
Speaking Union was held in Mayoress Glover’s recep-
tion-room at the Town Hall to raise funds. It was
well attended.
Organised by the committees of the Mothers and
Babies’ Health Association and the Minda Home, a
large bridge party was held at Bilk’s Piccadilly on
Thursday night to swell the funds of the tenth
Movie Ball. Miss K. H. Hilfers and E. A. Anstey
were the joint secretaries. The Junior Red Cross
exhibited great activity in the matter of selling
sweets. Mrs. P. E. Stow and Dorothy Elms handled
the arrangements.
Mayoress Glover .gave a morning tea for General
and Mrs. Higgins of the Salvation Army. Mrs.
Glover wore black marocain with touch of beige
lace and a black hat.
The Speck’s gaieties :
The Royal Hobart Golf Club ran a jolly hop at
the clubhouse, Rosny, in aid of the club funds.
Chrysanthemums, dahlias and antirrhinums in flame
and tawny shades gave warmth to the decorations.
On the committee were Mrs. L. Oldmeadow, Catherine
Cullinane, Nancy Hamilton, Dorothy Bohman, S. H.
Findlay and G. Howard.
The Royal Yacht Club’s dance at the Continental
and clubhouse was a very gay affair. Commodore
George Evans, the flag officers and committee laid
themselves out to make things go, and succeeded.
Decorations were appropriately nautical and the
Continental orchestra played.
The Midland Hunt Club had fine weather for its
meet at Audora, near Evandale. At the end of
the run Mr. and Mrs. Carl von Stieglitz entertained
the club at tea in the big dining-room at Audora.
Doreen, only daughter of the F. M, Brownells,
and Norman Hutton were made one at the Methodist
Church, New Town. The bride’s frock was of
heavy ivory satin, with Medici collar of lace edged
with pearls. A tiny cap of Brussels lace was
decorated at one side with a cluster of orange
blossom, and the veil of tulle fell from beneath it.
Amy Liptrot and Thelma Winch followed in frocks
of chiffon and lace in pale green, with wreaths of
velvet leaves worn low on the forehead.
The Launceston Players gave two one-act plays,
produced by Dr. Holman and Herbert Gray. Players
included H. Ingledew, P. O. Fysh, W. Judd, W. L.
Brown, J. B. White and G. N. Stilwell, Mrs. R.
Wall, Peggy Mclntyre, E, Henry, W. Warren, Y.
Bashford and Peggy*. Williamson. The performances
went very smoothly and pleased a large audience.
Baritone Charles Benson had a farewell concert
at the Town Hall. He is off to try his fortune in
the U.S.A. Myra Gillon, Mrs. Royle Taylor and
Madame Mcßae helped; and Madame Benson and
Arthur Paton were the accompanists. Mr. Benson
was presented with a travelling case, rug, watch,
fountain-pen and wallet.
Our genial little Premier has been ordered rest
and recreation, as he is suffering from the effects
of overwork. He and Mrs. McPhee have gone for
a trip to Asia.
Mrs. L. Fyvie Watt, who has been staying here
with her mother for some weeks, has returned to
Sydney.


SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class Action.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
Second-hand Prices for New Saddles
sf
sdf
Why risk getting the worst of a
second-hand deal? You may get
a broken or patched-up tree and
possibly pay more than a new
saddle would cost.
The No. 128 “Farmer and Settler”
Stock Saddle
Fills the bill for the man who hasn’t a great deal to
spend on a saddle. It has cowhide seat and pads set
up in the skirt, short panel with leather points at sides,
and is good value for the money.
PRICE, BARE, 85/-
MOUNTS Leathers 5/6, Girth 3/3, Irons 3/9.
Extra, 12/6
No. 129 SADDLE, with low park pads, is same price.
No. 146 Ring Head Bridle, with bit to suit saddle .... 11/-
27in. Collar Check for saddle cloth 5/6
Saddle sent Freight Free for Cash to any N. S.W. Railway Station.
Add Postage to Bridle, etc., if not sent with saddle.
Write for our list of Saddles, as low as 72/6 bare. Whips from 9/-
Collars from 25/6- Bridles, Horse Rugs from 17/6.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 George Street, Sydney
Box 785 G.
/ \
■ I
mm «
A
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
PELCHEN, formerly of
vv Hamilton, Victoria, Farmer. Will the
abovenamed, or any person knowing his
whereabouts or able to give any information
regarding him, please communicate with his
brother. Harry Pelchen, Hamilton, Victoria,
when the said William Pelchen will hear of
matters to liis advantage. He was last heard
of in Sydney, New South Wales, in 1020.
ESTATE OF ELIZA MALONE, of
Lisbareen, Bodyke, Co. Clare, Ireland,
Widow, Deceased.
INFORMATION is sought for MARY ANN
1 JEFFSCOTT, daughter of Michael Fitz-
patrick, of Corbally, Dunmore East, Co.
Waterford, niece of deceased, supposed to
have emigrated to Australia. If she will
communicate with the undersigned she will
hear'of something to her advantage.
JAMES LYNCH, Solicitor,
Ennis, Co. Clare,
Ist March, 1932.
Ireland.
AS WE SAID BEFORE
This page will be devoted week by week to reproductions of the
gems in picture, story and verse published in “The Bulletin” of last
century, so that pleasant memories may be revived in old readers and
a new generation may enjoy the things that delighted an earlier one.
[Mr. Church died in Victoria a few weeks
ago.]
Tn a N.S.W. back-country town lived a
bank manager. He had amongst his customers
a Avealtliy but illiterate squatter who had
his book made up only once a year—just
[Frank Mahony. —26/11/’92.]
after he got the avool returns. The banker
badly Avanted £lOO and “borrowed” it from
the squatter’s account. Things went
smoothly, and the borrower was able to
repay just before the time arrived for
making up the book. The £lOO, of course,
was paid in as it was drawn—“over the
counter,” so to speak. When the squatter
got his book he noticed the payment to his
credit of £l.OO and inquired about it
The manager knew nothing—paid over the
counter, etc. The squatter mentioned the
matter to an attorney, who, having no special
regard for the manager, ferreted the matter
out, found the little secret, put the police
in motion and got the banker two years’
’hard”; he was released, however, at the
end of a year. The squatter admitted that
he would not have recognised a paltry hun-
dred drawn from the account, while he
would easily remember that amount to his
credit. “At any rate,” said he to the banker,
’serves you well right for not axing
me for the loan. You might have had it
10 times over.” Alas! they always tell you
that. [6/5/’93.j
BOTH SIDES.
INEBRIATE (accosting passer-by): “’Souse
me, shir, is this the other side o’ the
road?”
PASSER-BY: “No — it’s on the other side.”
INEBRIATE ( puzzled ): “Much ’bliged—cove
just told me ’twas (hie) over here.”
[Tom Durkin. —4/2/’93.]
BOWEN FALLS, MILFORD SOUND.
O waterfall that fallest to the sea,
Falling for ever to white virginals
Of olden melody, thy voice I hear
In molten moments of the summer stars,
When the great sun is dead in majesty.
From the white fields of home like thee
I came
Impetuous to the cliffs, and I have poured
Treasure of loa-c on altars cold, as thou
Hast showered thy rainbow on the icy rocks.
That have not felt thy kiss, and I would
die.
Athwart the hollows of. the moon-fed air
Come eider tremors of thy dying plunge,
Surceasing as child-tired eyelids droop
Upon a wavy bosom rocked with love
Shot from the Heaven for ever, like thy
song.
The moon is kissing thy keen diadem,
Sick for her barrenness, and all her face
Creeps to thy Avhite arc down the preci-
pice,
As I have nestled, yearning Avitli wild eyes
Into the umber chancels of a soul.
[l6/12/’93.]
HUBERT CHURCH.
LOCK SUEY'S LOVE STORY.
Lock Suey was a small, plain, workaday
Chinee, as homely as a willoAV-pattern plate,
but gentle and deferential in manner, and
possessed of an ineffable Celestial smile with
which he sunned his friends and conciliated
his enemies. Lock grew cabbage on the bank
ot Bircher’s Creek, and lived alone, apart
from his countrymen at the camp with
whom he appeared to differ on some points
of theology. He had a version of the original
Joss, and, being a pietist of extreme zeal, his
vice-divinity had about as good a time of it
as any reasonable, right-minded god could
expect to have in a
poor man’s family.
Lock Suey had built
a gaudy shrine under
the lee of his hut.
and here the horrid
little god was en-
sconced in gaudy
state, surrounded
with much tinsel
and many high-
colored cracker-
wrappers. Lock wor-
shipped with com-
mendable regularity
and great earnest-
ness, sometimes in
silence but with gym-
nastic genuflexions,
at others with a ter-
rific howling and
kicking, and gnash-
ing of teeth. The
supernumerary god
repaid Suey’s devo-
tion a hundredfold;
Suey’s garden was
the most prolific in
the district, and
Suey was believed to
be a bloated capital-
ist amongst Chinese.
. I Avas fossicking
in the gully and had
the cradle rigged on
the opposite bank of
the creek, and so
wa.s often a Avitness
to Lock Suey’s devo-
tions.
“What Suey pray
for now?” I asked
a scoffing Mongol
one afternoon when
the devotee was even
more declamatoi’y
and exacting than
usual.
“Him want to
malice Missie Salah.
Ask him god all
a-same long time.
Savee?” was the re-
sponse of the grin-
T i( „ , nmg scoffer.
1 did savee. Lock was importuning his
household god to favor his suit with Red
garah, a local lady of unsavory reputation,
fearah was large and ugly and combative,
and as the heathen’s god seemed attentive
only to Suey’s best interest, it appeared un-
likely that it would move to further this
mistaken ambition. Suey persisted, however,
in carrying on his courtship through the
medium of his god," and I became quite fami-
liar with the particular rite, and deeply in-
terested in the Chow’s aspiration. One
night he made a special effort; he, for three
hours, discharged crackers before his private
Joss, and I was not at all surprised on find-
ing a few days later that the divinity had
yielded to his importunities, and interested
itself on his behalf, and that Sarah and Mr.
Lock Suey had been married before the
registrar at Clunes.
Mrs. Suey was a quiet and tractable wife
for just two days. Ou the third day I heard
expostulations and Avikl Chinese cries pro-
CERTAIN SMASH.
SMITH : “Hallo, Jones, you look out of
sorts. What’s the matter?”
JONES: “Oh! I’ve just been to the races.
Went to back a certainty. I suppose
you know what that means?”
[Alf Vincent.—18/2/93.]
ceeding from the hut. On the fourth day I
saw Suey throwq out bodily. On the even-
ing of the fifth day, as I was walking down
the gully on the right, I saw Mr. and Mrs.
Lock Suey engaged in an animated combat
in the garden. Mrs. Suey was destroying the
vegetables by pounding her lord down on top
of them as often as he cared to come up.
Finally, with a rush and a whoop, she swung
the misguided pagan by his flowing pig-tail
right out into the middle of the creek, and
then retired from my vieAV behind the hut.
Presently Suey climbed up out of the
water, covered with sludge. Snatching up
a wood-axe from the ground, he followed his
Avife. I heard a yell, and a series of dull
thuds.
“Murder!”
With a rush and a bound I was down the
bill and through the Chow’s scrub fence, and
reached the back of the hut. just in time to
see Lock Suey demolishing the last rem-
nants of his pottery god, and scattering the
ornaments of the shrine to the winds. He
beat the fragments of his earthenware deity
into dust, and then stood aside, scowling like
a man glutted Avith vengeance, whilst his
fond spouse squatted on the ground and
laughed till she choked.
Since that eventful day Lock Suey has
been an uncompromising atheist, I believe.
[25/2/’93.]
SILAS SNELL.
AN OBSTACLE RACE.
I am not Joe Scott. I never walked 100
miles in one day, nor in two days; but, all
the same, I knew I was too many for Scan-
dalous. We had cut out at a shed and were
making for Hungerford. Scandalous Jack
was the only one going my road, but, as it
was over 100 miles and a lonely track, I
was glad of any sort of company. SkiteV
Well, I like a good lie, but don’t like a
man to think I believe it. When Scan-
dalous told me about his being out on No
Tree Plains, where there wasn’t a stick of
Avood big enough for a toothpick for 278
miles, and how he used to get up in the
morning, pull two or three blackfellows’
spears out of himself, and thank God that
he had something to boil the billy with, I
suffered him. But when he made a casual
remark about his walking 671 miles in one
day, I Jarred him up a bit.
“Look here, Scandalous,” I said “you
can’t walk a little bit. Why, I’ll back Mad
Scotty to walk you.” This was a strong-
statement, considering that Scotty always
wears a long overcoat and has three billies
hanging down each leg on wire hooks. Scotty
is known all over the backblocks. At a
little distance he looks like one of these
Chinese-pump affairs where the buckets run
up one side and down the other. But he
isn’t.
. Scandalous looked at me calmly for some
time, and then “performed” very mildly to
what I had expected. “Well, Billy/ he
said, “if you fancy yourself at that game,
111 walk you into Hungerford for your
cheque against mine.”
So wo made the wager. We each had a
cheque for £13, and when we came to a
bush post office we put both cheques into
one envelope and addressed it to “W. J.
Brown, Hungerford—till called for.”
I knew Scandalous’s game. He would
pretend to fall behind, and then make over
on to the coach-road, take the coach, and
consequently both cheques. However, 1
would watch that and lose some sleep. I
knew he could neither get ahead of me nor
far behind me. lie should have the pleasure
of my companionship till within a few hours’
walk of the town, and then—well, if we
didn’t part company then it wouldn’t be
either my fault or his.
“Now, there’s one thing, Billy,” lie said.
“I’ll trust to your honesty not to sling
away _ that swag of yours if we separate.
And if the P.O. is closed when one gets
there and don’t open till you get—I mean,
till the other comes up, it’s> a draw. Eacli
takes his own cheque.” This was agreed to.
of course. It was only natural for him
to make the remark about my “swag,” as
it was nothing but two good strong flour-
bags sewn together at the ends with the
bottom cut out of one. It had been used
as a mattress. I had picked it up before
I came to the shed and was too mean to
buy blankets going away. The boys chaffed
me a lot about it, but as I wanted to get
into Sydney with £10 I held out. I would
only be a few days on the track, and then
the blankets would be of no further use
to me, as I had sworn to keep off the
track once I could get a start in Sydney.
Anyhow, this affair was nearly as good as
a blanket. I used to crawl into it feet-
first, and no ants or mosquitoes would dis-
turb me.
I didn’t sleep a wink the first two nights.
Whenever I heard Scandalous make a start
I would get up and accompany him. telling
him if was very lonely camping by one-
self. The third night was cold and chilly,
and I crawled well into my long bag, but
not to sleep. I enjoyed Scandalous’s com-
pany too well for that. The town was 2 5
miles off. But I did sleep, and when I
awoke next morning I didn’t spring to my
feet and start cursing, mostly because Scan-
dalous had taken one of the wires out of
the fence above my head and sewn up the
mouth' of my couch, and then fastened the
end of the wire to the post again. For
obvious reasons I stopped there all that
day, and might have been there yet only
for two shearers coming along in the even-
ing. Scandalous had told them.
[13/5/’9?>.]
BOILING BILLY.


On the threshold /
m
m
m
In a few more years, LlFE—with all its entrancing
opportunities —will open out before your children.
WHAT FUTURE HAVE
YOU BUILT FOR THEM?
Above all, have you realised how completely the
fulfilment of YOUR hopes-and THEIRS-is bound
up with YOUR OWN LIFE?
The Road to To-morrow Starts To-day,
and a few shillings a week NOW will ensure that your death will not
deprive your children of the career you had planned for them.
THE PRUDENTIAL issues policies for EDUCATIONAL ENDOW-
MENT, for MARRIAGE DOWRY, for CAPITAL to start your
children in business life. In the event of the death of the parent,
payment of premiums can be waived.
You will probably never save the necessary few shillings per. week
for your life's great objective, except by means of such a policy.
Make The Prudential—the Greatest Insurance Institution in the
British Empire—the Guardian and bulwark of your Children's Future.
Fill in the attached coupon and send to
The Prudential Assurance
Company Limited (OF LONDON)
Head Office for Australia and New Zealand:
"HERALD” BUILDING, 66 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Phones 8W2885 (3 lines) C. F. WARREN, F.1.A.,
General Manager for Australia and New Zealand
Pleas© send me particulars of a Guaranteed Bonus Policy which will enable me to
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY —Price 3d.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
pgasoow
k
Commencing 2ru[ June
A
RED LETTER DAY in the history
of Bargains! The commencement
of the mighty Red Spot Sale! As
a general basis only, every
article (except proprietary
lines) reduced at least
10
Some are down as
low as . .
HALF PRICE
sdf
sdf
TO MEASURE
(Formerly £4 18/9)
Secure now a faultlessly Murdoch-
tailored Suit at these splendid
price reductions. Select from
choice materials with harmonious
colorings in Thornproof Tweeds,
all wool Worsteds and the ever
popular pure Indigo Dye Serges.
Tailored to your individual
wishes and require- jCOICtICI
ments, for XD/O/O
Superior qualities in suits to
Measure —
Usually—
£s/10/- £6/6/- £ 7/7/- £7/15/-
SALE PRICES—
£3/16/- £4/7/9 £5/2/9 £5/13/6
Send for Patterns
Desk “R,’
Murdoch’s, Ltd.,
Box 3875TT, G.P.0., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, Kindly forward me, without
obligation on my part, patterns of Suit-
ings to Measure at Red Spot prices.
About £
Name .
Address
I
KZ,
We Pay Freight.
Kindly address .all letters tc
Desk “R.”
Sale Book
FREE
Murdoch’s
Bumper
Book of
Bargains
now ready.
Write for
your Free
Copy.
I
cjM*
J
Some of the
BARGAINS
Slazenger’s 50/- Sterling Tennis Rac-
quets, 35/-; 70/- Navy Twill Suits, 57/6;
42/- Men’s “Raglan” or “Prince” Over-
coats, 29/6; 21/- Fur Felt Hats for 12/9;
10/6 Poplin de Luxe Golf Shirts for 7/6.
Thousands more.
£
vane
(UK
park t, GEORGE STREET


DOPE
BY
GRANTLEY LORRENS.
Synopsis : Ernest William Johns,
M.A. Oxon., brought by cocaine to a
mere subsistence by freelancing, saves
beautiful but raucous Etty Smith
from a half-breed’s knife in a Sydney
waterfront “dive.” Aboard the Surf
Queen, he accepts her father’s offer
of a steady job and a chance to regain
his health. Etty helps him fight his
cravings, and after a few weeks he
has to go to her for dope rations less
frequently. But her ministrations
fire the jealousy of Ols Jornsen, mate.
Taunted by the cook (“the doctor”).
Ols brings “snow” from Townsville
and tempts the agonised Johns. Etty,
in flimsy night attire, intervenes. As
she tends him Johns realises that she,
who is far short of Ms ideal, loves
him. Captain Smith, her father,
realises it, too; he leaves the cabin
doorway, where he has been watching,
and, dismisses her.
BOOK I—THE SURF QUEEN.
Chapter VII ( Continued).
IT was the captain who finally broke the
silence. “That damned Swede goes to
Hell to-morrow morning!” he announced
suddenly.
Johns started. The double good news
came as a greater shock to him than could
have come the accusation that he had been
dreading.
“So you know what happened?”
Smith nodded, and then laughed softly.
“You had the wind up, eh? Me the out-
raged father and all that? Why didn’t you
tell me the facts, if you were worried?”
Johns shrugged. “Well”
The burly captain’s hand came down
with surprising gentleness on the other’s
shoulder.
“You don’t need to tell me,” lie said, and
the tenderness in his voice came as a
revelation to Johns. “You don’t need to
tell me. I didn’t always run a damned wind-
jammer. Tiftie was when—Hell, what’s the-
good of looking back? Anyway, I know
enough to know why you didn’t squeak.
The public-school spirit, eh? I know it!
You’d rather have your head cut off than
tell tales.” He smote his thigh, and his.
customary good spirits came back, to him
with a rush. “They can’t bluff old Bluff
Smith!” he chuckled in a voice that must
have carried almost to the single light that
marked the foot of the jetty. “They can’t
bluff me! Wanted to tell me that you had
no guts—me! I picked you for a man down
there in Gabriel’s Heaven!”
Johns flushed with pleasure.. “Why, it
was nothing,” he stammered, feeling like a‘
schoolboy.
Bluff. Smith laughed again. “Oh, hell, no! ,
Nothing at all, young Johnny! Nothing at
all to- sit by wondering what the hell was,
going do happen to you next! Trying to
save Etty’s' face, when all along you knew
damned well it was her fault all the way
through! Not that I blame’her, mind you.
Etty’s the sort that only loves once; but,
by God! when she does love she loves good
and hai;d. No wonder she mistook that kiss
of yours—she wanted to. That’s the hell of
it, Jbhnnjr! She loves you, ditch me if
she don’t, and she’s got to be told that
you don’t love her.”
Johns groaned to himself. “But I assure
you,” he began in a desperate effort to try
to dissipate the idea from the other’s mind
before it became too firmly established. “I
assure you”
“I know it ain’t your fault,” Captain
Smith said, and his face, in the dim light
from the lantern, looked suddenly very old
and drawn; the. yellow glow was bringing
out sharp contrasts of light and shade,
emphasising the lines that wind and
weather had cut. “I know it ain’t your
fault, Johnny,” he reiterated softly. “Etty’s
just like her mother -was'. Only in most
ways the boot’s on the other foot. Etty’s
mother fell in love with , a low-down sort
of a blackguard—she was miles too good
for me—and she suffered for it. And now
Etty’s gone and fallen in love with you,
and I’m afraid she’s going to suffer too.”
Johns stiffened suddenly, but the other
waved him into silence.
“Oh, you needn’t think I’m making out
that she’s too good for you, Johnny! You
can get that out of your mind. Maybe-at
present”—he shrugged expressively to com-
plete the sentence. “But in another six
months or so, Johnny.”
Again he broke off, and nodded at Johns.
The younger, man shrugged and sighed;
it was obvious that candor was the only
thing.
“I think you are right,” he agreed. “In
another six months I shall be my old self
again; and the tragedy of it will be that
you and Etty will have been largely—-
responsible.
“Well, what of it? Forget it, Johnny.”
Again Bluff Smith had lost his bluffness,
and was speaking softly, from his heart.
“Don’t we all have tragedies? Does any-
thing we can do or say make any differ-
ence? Life’s life, and we’ve just got to
live it. Do you think anything I could
have said or done would have made Etty’s
mother haul off before it was too late?
Didn’t all her friends tell her she was a
fool—as she was, God bless her? And
didn’t they all rake up everything they
could against me? With what result?
Simply to make her all the more determined
to see it through! They couldn’t make
her love me more—or less—than she’d loved
me from the first day she saw me. And
Etty’s going to be the same with you.”
He sat silent for a while, and Johns
found nothing to say. The soft slapping of
the wavelets that the night’s breeze had
stirred to life whispered against the Surf
Queen’s side. “It’s Fate,” they seemed to
be explaining to him over and over again.
“It’s Fate—just Fate!”
Captain Smith heaved a sigh.
“You go to sleep, Johnny,” he said, as
he rose. “You must be pretty done in.”
As he lifted the lantern from its hook,
he smiled. It was the first time that
Johns had seen the blond giant’s smile
without hearing the customary accompany-
ing chuckle, and, perhaps for that reason,
it stirred the Englishman poignantly. And
the captain’s voice, as he turned to leave,
was muted so that it seemed to harmonise
with the refrain of the wavelets.
“It’s Fate, Johnny,” he whispered, and
nodded slowly. “It’s Fate; and you can’t
quarrel with Fate.”
It was a long time before Johns, despite
his utter exhaustion, was finally able to
drop off to sleep, and when he did it was to
the accompaniment of the wavelets’ lullaby
as they still breathed against the silent
vessel’s side: “It’s Fate—it ? s just Fate.”
Chapter VIII.
Captain Smith was true to his. word. The
next morning'the Swede was sent ashore,
although not'without a little difficulty. 01s
did riot - want-t<p ~ go, and his slow mind
refused to_ accept ' the inevitable. In the
end-there-'was.nearly a free fight. There
wouldjhave been' Johns' told himself later,
had it not been for the pacific intervention
of the doctor, .who.alone seemed to under-
stand "the . Swede. They left Townsville
a couple of hours, later, and turned their
nose -northwardsS- - - .
It was nearly midnight-ten days after
their last sight ’ of Magnetic-Island that
Johns, as he kept his watch’, found the cook
standing by his /side.'.. \ . .
“Can I have a few'words with you, Mr - .
Johns?” he asked respectfully. ■ Whatever
he- might say. to .his .shipmates, about the
newly-promoted first mate, he none the less
entertained a genuine respect for him which
was engendered not of, the university man’s
physique or ,manly .attributes, but of the
culture*' and 'erudition that he knew was
there. „MichaeL_Yarley, .before he had de-
scended to the stewpans of small traders,
had been, in the long distant past, a medi-
cal student,,and he knew, having a little of
it himself, how education.
.“It’s about Etty—Miss Smith,” he ex-
plained. “Now that 01s is gone I don’t
mind saying what I’ve been thinking for
a long time, and that’s this. It’s a damned
shame that a girl like her’s got to be
cooped up all the time on this rotten little
scow, and that is- a- fact. She don’t get
no chance of meeting anybody, and you
know what propinquity, can do. I thought
for a while that she would sure marry
Qlsen sooner or later. It seemed to be
more or less inevitable. And then you
came along.”
The doctor broke off as though diffident
to say what was in' his mind.
, “Well?” .
Johns was apparently very much occupied
with the binnacle, but he gave the cook
the encouragement he had been waiting for.
Michael Varley took a deep breath and
went on:
“Well, Mr. Johns, it’s this way. I don’t
want to go butting in, "or anything, but it’s
only fair to myself to speak out.”
Johns was listening, bewildered, to the
nicely-modulated language coming from the
Surf Queen’s cook. He was, in fact, as
much intrigued by the diction as by the
words themselves.
.“.You see;” the doctor wpnt^on, “I’ve been
pretty fond of Miss Smith myself, and I
don’t mind telling yon ; that,. I’ve pulled
myself together pretty well in the last
twelve months.' A man;can save a bit on my
job, too, especially if
he knows how to work
the chandlers.”
Again the doctor
paused, hesitantly.
Johns had a sense of
unreality. It was a
moonless night, and
the cook’s voice, com-
ing from the shadows,
seemed to be that of a
disembodied Michael
Varley rather than
that of the actual,
lazy, casual “doctor”
whom he had so far
known.
“Well, Mr. Johns, it’s this way.” The
words came with a rush. “I suppose it’s
impertinence and all that, but I love Etty,
and I can see that Etty loves you. Things
being that way, and you being a gentle-
man, born as well as educated, I can see
that Etty’s only butting her head up against
a brick wall, and I was wondering whether
you could let her know so?”
The silence of the night came down on
the Surf Queen.
Johns was too taken aback to make any
answer at the moment. Not so much by
the request itself as by the intuition that
it bespoke in its maker. If he had ever
had cause to imagine an interview between
himself and the cook of the Surf Queen on
the subject in question, his conception of
it would have been nothing like this, he
told himself.
The silence stretched out into minutes,
and the minutes lengthened to a quarter
of an hour, so that the chugging of the
auxiliary motor, called into use by the
utter calm that they had run into, became
a metronome, beating off the seconds.
Johns had almost forgotten the doctor.
It did not worry him whether he were still
present or not. For the soul of Ernest
William Johns, M.A. Oxon., had begun its
renascence. He was travelling through
space, winging, in company with his spirit,
a way through the velvety night towards
the stars. The Surf Queen was travelling
almost due east, and on the starboard beam
he could see the Southern Cross, hanging
low in the indigo of the night, so that its
two pointers seemed almost awash in the
still ocean.
Pointers! They were pointing the way
towards their Cross—and Michael Varley
was, to him, a pointer. That was.it! An-
other signpost on the road to rehabilitation.
The first had been the Archangel Gabriel,
who had seen in him the hallmark of the
gentleman. Then there had come the
Smiths, with their kindness and their bluff
compassion. And now, where he had least
expected it v another signpost—Michael
Varley, signeur of the stewpans of the Surf
Queen!
He drew a deep breath. The salt-scented
air was heavy and pungent, like old wine.
And like old wine it flowed slowly but
overwhelmingly through his veins, bestow-
ing a sense of well-being, so that he felt
once mope a man instead of a weakling with
puny muscles and puerile self-discipline—
flowed through his veins so> that the future
glowed optimistically bright before him,
and he longed for the day when he should
once more be fit to take his place in his
own proper sphere.
And then, as suddenly, the exaltation
passed, and once, more lie was on the Surf
Queen, and remembering that it was only
that morning that he had been compelled to
seek an extra ration of “snow” from Etty.
Ever since the night when ’the elephantine
01s had stumbled into his cabin he had
found it more, difficult to keep the craving
within the limits that he had reached be-
fore their arrival in Townsville. For the
mental and physical strain of events that
night had been too much for him. Cer-
tainly he had slept until dawn, but it had
been the sleep of sheer physical exhaustion,
and no sooner had he wakened than the old
urge had come over him irresistibly, and his
throbbing supra-orbital nerve had sent him,
shamefaced in the virgin light of early day,
to Etty’s cabin. And Etty had given him
a ration of “snow,” and, hastily dressing, had
followed him back to his cabin to sit by
him, patiently, devotedly, until, the ex-
hilaration of the cocaine quietening down, he
had dropped off into a peaceful sleep. And,
ever since, he had been forced, at least once
every day, to beg an extra issue from Etty.
He gave the wheel an unnecessary twist
to starboard. Then, putting the Surf Queen
back on her course, once more he looked
behind him.
The doctor was still there, a faintly-out-
lined figure which the starlight transformed,
or so -it seemed to Johns, into a carven
statue of patience.
“You’ve got to remember,” Johns said
at length—and again the sense of unreality
came, down on him—“you’ve got to remem-
ber that I’m not altogether a free agent,
Varley.” A sudden spirit of humility took
charge of his words. “Where would I have
been by now if it hadn’t been for Captain
Smith and Etty? They pulled me out of
the gutter, you know, and I feel that I
owe them first consideration. Etty is
curing me of this cursed craving—you’ve
got to admit that?”
An eager note crept into his voice, and
he waited with ludicrous anxiety for the
other’s answer.
The cook’s figure stirred, and Johns
guessed that he was feeling for another
of his inexhaustible cigars.
I reckon that’s true, Mr. Johns-: but
because a man owes Ms happiness, or his
chance of happiness, to a girl, it doesn't
necessarily follow that he’s got to spoil her
Me out of a mistaken sense of gratitude
and obligation, does it?”
Johns did not follow the other’s reason-
mg. __
“It’s this way,” the doctor went on to
explain. I reckon Etty’s dead nuts on
>ou, and I reckon, too, if you were to
ask her to marry you straight off, just as
>Oll are, broke to the wide and a dope
fiend, she’d do it like a shot.”
He paused to light his cigar, and as the
name waxed and waned with each suction
of his thin lips his face leaped from light
to darkness and back again like some gro-
tesque Jack-in-the-box. He blew the match
out with overdone deliberation, and flicked
the dead fragment towards the rail before
he added:
“And she’d be miserable as Hell for ever
after.”
Johns cleared his throat, but the glowing
cigar-end waved him into silence before
he could speak.
“Of course she would! I’m not saying
you wouldn’t be good to her or anything. I
know you would. But that’d be more than
half the trouble. Even I can see that Etty’s
sensitive. Don’t forget her mother was a
lady—l know all about that part of it—
and Etty has inherited all her mother’s
good breeding. But she hasn’t had the
education, Mr. Johns—that’s the trouble.
She’d be all at sea with jmu. You couldn’t
be like me, f’r instance. I’ve had a bit
of education—a hell of a long time ago.
certainly—but still its effect is still there to
a certain extent. I can still talk the King’s
English when I feel inclined. And yet, down
in the fo’c’s’le, they don’t think I’ve ever
been anything but what I am now.” He
broke off sharply, and his cigar-end glowed
almost continuously for thirty seconds.
“That’s it! I’m adaptable—intellectually
adaptable. But you, Mr. Johns, you
couldn’t ever be anything but a so-called
highbrow. It’s not that you wouldn’t try
to talk down to Etty—lVc heard you read-
ing poetry to her—and you’ll never get her
to talk up to you. But she’d know that
you were talking down to her, and that
would hurt her like the devil. It’d be dif-
ferent if you really loved her. But don’t,
for God’s sake, marry her out of grati-
tude, Mr. Johns —or pity either.”
Again the silence closed over the Surf
Queen. The stars in their indigo setting
seemed to be hovering, alert, listening for
the answer that Johns would make. It
was not often that they heard such confi-
dences as these. Even in the stillness and
the magic of a tropic night it is not often
that a man will lay bare his soul, and
humble himself by turning suppliant to
another man. Stealth, treachery, even
bloodshed—all these they had looked down
upon from time to time without the faint-
est stirring of their pulses. But now they
were hovering, eagerly, and the night held
its breath so that not a ripple stirred the
sleeping ocean, whose surface held a mirror
to the million twinkling silver points that
jewelled the sky.
Johns cleared his throat. But, if he had
intended saying anything, he must have
changed his mind, and the solitary, isolated
sound served only to emphasise the ensuing
silence.
Michael Varley’s eyes were fixed on the
faint phosphorescence that was reflected in
the ripples spreading out from the tiny
bow-wave, and he made no movement. He
had spoken his mind, and he was content
now to await his answer. His cigar, as
it lay between his fingers, hanging passively
at the end of his long, motionless arm,
slowly lost its redness, fading impercept-
ibly to the deadness of ash; Michael Var-
ley’s life had taught him that, beyond a
certain stage, passivity is the best weapon
of offence.
Johns stirred uneasily. The cook had
gone to the - root of the matter with un-
canny accuracy. In his heart Johns had
known all along that things could not go on
as they had been going. A crisis had been
approaching;, it must have come sooner or
later, and Etty, inevitably, had to be the
sufferer. As Varley said, whichever way
it went —whether he married her or whether
he did not. What, then, would be the
sense in making himself suffer as well?
Apart from the selfish point of view, it was
obvious, with Varley’s words still in his
mind, that the easiest and kindest way out
of it so far as Etty was concerned would be
to take the decisive step as soon as pos-
sible. If he told her straightaway that he
did not love her, that he had no intention
of ever marrying her, it would hurt her,
certainly, but not half so much as it would
hurt her if he delayed. It would be short
and sharp—one searing sweep of the sur-
geon’s knife that would leave peace in its
wake. But marriage—that would be one
long pain, not only for Etty, but for him-
self as well.
The silence suddenly seemed broken. For
a moment both men listened—there was
something that had altered. The explana-
tion dawned on Johns.
“Dirt in the carburetter,” he suggested.
It was the rhythmic chugging of the engine
that had suddenly disappeared from the
night.
“Yes. I’ll go and fix it.”
The doctor, too, seemed glad of the inter'
ruption, and he stirred his long limbs to
activity.
Five minutes later the engine coughed,
sputtered jerkily, and then picked up its


W:?
eedom from
pinking. Easy
starting. Instant
acceleration. Top
gear climbing.
More miles per
gallon. Effortless
speed . . .
QL.NEW
ANTI-KNOCK PETROL
aives than ad!
The latest achievement in Motor Spirits. Available everywhere .
CI .34.3 d
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persiani 0»1 Co. ***•>»
Poolman Street, Port Melbourne, 5.C.7 s: ’Phones M 3261 :: Refinery: Laverton, Victoria & CO. LTD.
Agents for South Australia and Country Districts of New South Wales:
even throbbing. Varley’s head appeared for
a moment from out of the darkness for-
“ All right again, Mr. Johns. It was dirt
in the carburetter.”
“Thanks, Varley.” Johns straightened the
Surf Queen back on to her course. “I think
you’re right, Varley—l’m sure you are.
But it’s going to be a difficult business to
decide how best to do it.”
Varley had lighted another cigar, and the
"learning end waved its holder’s acceptance
°oi the statement, and his willingness to
leave*the matter entirely to the others dis-
cretion. T} .
“I’ll leave that to you, Mr. Johns. „But
—l’m mighty glad you agree with me.
Then, as the cook’s footsteps died away
in the direction of the fo’c’s’le, the silence
took charge again, and Ernest William
Johns, M.A. Oxon., stood motionless at the
wheel, conning the Surf Queen through the
sleeping ocean.
Chapter IX.
Lola-Panga was once a thriving trading
station, where men foregathered with their
ships in the days when the copra lay stacked
in the sheds in quantities greater than the
trading schooners could cope with. But
now, thanks to an earthquake and a new-
born volcano, scarcely noticed in the col-
umns of the world’s press, the packing-
sheds are slowly crumbling to the ground,
as though their continual emptiness had
sapped them of their strength; and where
once the cocoanut plantations had made
from the harbor a waving sea of green,
there is now but the expressionless, petri-
fied, dun-colored surface of the tide of lava.
The township itself stands on a tiny hill,
and, thanks to this elevation, escaped the
molten lava. But, on both sides of it, the
dun-colored mass stretches down to the
sea, so that it encircles the tiny hill with
its buildings like the arms of some lover
frozen into immobility by the coldness of
his reception. But seaward there is no
lava, and there the town slopes gently
down to the once-busy water-front, and the
two most seaward streets still know the
sound of voices and the bustle of commerce.
But only in a very minor degree; for the
most part the buildings stand aloof, as
though to dissociate themselves from the
pitiful reminder of their once prosperous
and bustling days.
As the Surf Queen crept round the point,-
seeming to edge stealthily across the
quiet ocean, with a faint breeze just giving
her headway, Johns focussed »his eyes on
the prospect. He had learned from Cap-
tain Smith in the last few days just what
Lola-Panga had become. It was a sub-
ject of which the bluff old sailor never
wearied of talking. He was beside Johns
now as they rounded the point, and he
nodded at the dull surface of the lava.
“It put me back a few years,” he told
the younger man. “I had a bit of money
in the Roma-Luna—that was the biggest
plantation of the lot. It started almosf
at the beach and climbed half-way up the
mountain. And we’d solved the question
o.f transport too. Every three furlongs or
so we had irrigation channels cut. They
all came to a point at our stripping-sheds,
and a couple of days’ good rain would wash
the whole harvest down for us. Tommy
Regan’s idea that was, and it worked well
for five years. Cut our working costs by
nearly twenty-five per cent. And then”—
he shook his fist at the southern arm of
the lava-bed—“there’s the rest of the story.
Most of that was Roma-Luna. Only for
that damned lava Etty would have been a
rich woman in a few years’ time.” He
broke off abruptly and shrugged his shoul-
ders. “Still, there’s more ways of killing
a cat than choking it with butter,” he said
with, a throaty chuckle, “and there’s more
ways of making money than copra. This
pearling ground now”
Johns nodded abstractedly. His eyes were
fixed on Lola-Panga, and his interest was
not in the past, nor in the future of Cap-
tain Smith and his daughter.
Bluff Smith nodded vigorously. “You
bet!” he agreed with himself. “There’s
more ways than one of making money!
Twenty-four hours in Lola-Panga, and then
we’re off to a fortune. You know, I reckon
that concession’s the best bit of buying I’ve
ever done.”
Again Johns nodded, striving to simulate
interest, but his mind was too busy with
a problem of its own to pay more than
cursory attention to what the other was
saying.
“What are you calling in here for?” he
asked at length, dragging himself back to
the present and the Surf Queen.
“Labor. Ever since the plantations went
bung the natives here have been hard up.
You see, the lava cut off a lot of their
natural food supplies, and. besides, they
don’t like having to go back to their old
ways of living, and they’ll do anything for
a bit of dough—they can’t buy whisky with-
out, it. And they’il come with me like a
shot, as many as I want. They’re about
the best deep-water divers in these parts,
too.”
Captain Smith slipped into a stream of
anecdote about, the natives and the planta-
tions-that-had-been which lasted until they
were ready to tie up at the deep-water
jetty.
A little later, as Bluff Smith appeared
again on deck, dressed for going ashore, he
strolled over for a word with Johns.
“You’d better take a stroll round with
Etty,” he suggested. “She knows the place
backwards, and she knows where not to go.
There’s still one or two whites in the
place,” he added significantly. “Unless, of
course, you’d rather come with Varley and
me. I’m taking him along to do most of
the selecting. He’s a shrewd head is
Varley, if ever there was one. I reckon
he’s as good a judge of a man as I’ve ever
met. There’s not too many times that he
makes a mistake.”
Johns nodded. There was no question
about the judgment of the Surf Queen s
cook so far as he was concerned; for not
only had Michael Varley approached him
in the one way best calculated to have
the desired effect on him, but, further, he
had since made no advance, he had since
given no indication that he and the acting
first mate of the Surf Queen had ever been
on terms other than that of ship’s officer
and ship’s cook. By neither word nor look
had Michael Varley made the faintest sign
of sharing with the mate a secret knowledge
that had stirred them both to the depths.
Nor, indeed, Johns admitted to himself, had
the doctor given the faintest indication that
he was—as Johns was sure he must be—
waiting anxiously, albeit patiently, for
Johns to make his decision, and take the
decisive step. That such had not yet been
done Johns knew must be obvious to the
cook. Etty Smith still spent her waking
hours with too bright a glow on her cheeks
and too happy a sparkle in her eyes to
have received the news. And the cook s
impassivity, his contentedness to wait for
Johns to choose the best moment and
opportunity, was merely added confirmation
of the skipper’s judgment.
But the thought of Etty and the disillu-
sionment that he must soon bring to her
smothered him in a cloud of depression.
Until this morning he had been putting off
the evil hour, waiting, as he now realised,
for Lola-Panga. He had had some vague
idea in his mind of staying on in
Panga—of deserting the ship, and finding
somewhere to stay until another ship might
put in. For the captain’s gloomy descrip-
tions of the place had not carried much
weight in his mind. He had attributed most
of the dark side of the picture that the
old sailor had painted to the fact that he
had lost a considerable amount of money
there, and that naturally his opinion of
the place would be biased by that fact.
But now! Tied up at the jetty, and with
the crumbling timbers of the once-busy
wharf all too obvious, and with the gaunt,
glassless windows of the dilapidated pack-
ing-sheds like so many eyeless sockets, a
sudden faintheartedness turned his half-
formed resolutions to water.
God, a man couldn’t live in a place like
this! Not Ernest William Johns, M.A.
Oxon, anyway! It was an utter impos-
sibility. It might be months, even years,
Captain Smith had said, before any other
vessel called there. He had rather dis-
counted this statement when he had first
heard it, but now, with the evidence of
decay wherever he looked, it seemed that
it must be all too true.
Better anything than indefinite isolation
in a town of dead hopes, he told himself.
Better an open conflict with Bluff Smith
and Etty; better even an open conflict with
Varley than a succession of dreary months
waiting in Lola-Panga for another ship to
come! If he stayed aboard the Surf Queen
there must, he knew, sooner or later, be
conflict with one or other of the parties.
He could not please all three of them. That
was only too obvious. And instinctively he
knew that it would be Varley, who must be
antagonised for the time being at least.
The prospect of having to remain aboard
the Surf Queen after telling Etty of his
decision was one that did not appeal to him.
{To be continued next week.)


OWER
depends on
Mf
for Heavy Duty
or Light. . .
ALEMITE Lubricants
give that saving protective film which pre-
vents the costly friction of metal against
metal. The modern power vehicle demands
specialized lubricants . . . and ALEMITE
meets every requirement—from differen-
tial to water pump. And all the better if
equipped with the Alemite High Pressure
Lubrication System . . . pressure forces
out dirt, grit and metal particles, to be re-
placed by the needed and proper lubricant.
K-Aust 2-32
ALEMITE CORPORATION • • Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT- Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W. A.),Ltd., 894 Ilay St Perth
E. A. MACIIIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne"
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
THE PATRIOT!
sdf
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE
2 HUNTER STREET.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
helpful articles reprinted from
The Bulletin s Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
StffiJ
■irr-V
ns
JL |g
CANADIAN AUSTRALASi aki
wwTeHneu)
Via
AUCKLAND
N.Z
SUVA and HONOLULU to
Vancouver. . . This is the attrac-
tive trans-Pacific route of British
vessels of the C-A Line.
Each of these ports has its indi-
vidual charm—all offer the
traveller unlimited possibilities
for enjoyment.
For further particulars apply
Union S. S. Co., Ltd.
247 George Street, Sydney.
S 9 William Street. Melbourne.
V*
❖
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
THE EXAMINER is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping. Agricultural,
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
THE EXAMINER” is in its 91st year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
Fidl information, copies, advertising rates “The Examiner,’' “Weekly Courier ’> and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
lvembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
An Interlude from Tomolo.
RECORDED BY G. H. VERNON.
Brrra-a-at... .t o k 0... .t o lc 0.... toko.
Brrra-a-at .... t0k0 .... t0k0 .... toko
The sound of the drums of Islam, heard
heating in the dusk on the hillside above
the town.
IT was not yet seven o’clock, but in these
equatorial regions night had already
fallen. The great towering peak of
Tomolo was veiled by a heavy rain-cloud,
the lower fringe of which could be dis-
tinguished clinging to the hillside even in
the gloom of night. That cloud had been
pouring unnecessary libations upon the rain-
soaked island for hours before the sun went
down. _ Now that it had ceased, the scent
of tropical and the croaking of frogs
became evident, as if the stopping of the
beating rain had set them free to rise in
tne air. The natural sense of mystery and
romance was intensified by the slow yet
joyous beating of those drums, floating down
over a town which seemed to be rendered
dumb and lifeless by the heavy, brooding
atmosphere pressing on it.
It was very quiet in the little Dutch
pension by the harbor front. There a row
of separate little verandah cubicles faced the
garden with its dripping shrubs, each cubicle
lit by a swinging lamp. All were unoccu-
pied save one, where a newly-arrived Eng-
lishman was trying to read a book, for the
Dutchmen at this hour were round at their
club—a haven of conventionality where the
etiquette ranked higher than the quality of
the drinks.
The Englishman fidgeted, listened to the
insistent rhythm of the drums with sudden
interest, and finally laid his book aside. Stal-
ing out into the night he gave rein to his
thoughts.
Yes, the idea of adventure had brought
him here, stimulated by chance reading of
current magazines. This very spot was
the latest find of romantic fiction-writers,
neglected so far even by American tourists.
Its very remoteness enhanced its value.
In this last forgotten island group, with its
volcanoes and its jungles, with its cruel
past hanging over its future like the cloud
over the peak above, lay a perfect setting
for an Oriental tale. He thought over the
rapid change of scene that the modern
storyteller requires—each a step farther
from civilisation than the last. To succeed
one must ever find an environment more
and more bizarre, more sinister. Italy,
Egypt, the South Seas —each had had its
turn, each had become commonplaces to
readers in Dondon. Wthen these parts were
worked out, where next would they seek
new atmosphere?
And now he was here, in the very island
where Mr. A. and Mrs. B. had' come and
gone in the midst of those scenes of mystery
and romance that they wrote of so glibly.
There were tales of Rajahs and Rajahs’
wives, of palgtces by the side of coral
beaches, of pearls as big as cocoanuts.
fctrange and lovely women floated mistily
through these stories, performing thrilling
and unexpected psychological feats that
sent the blood rushing to the head. And
now he was here to share in it all—to pick
up some of the crumbs from the sumptuous
fare they had promised. If only he could
discover where the feast was laid '
The events of the four days since his
arrival had tended to disillusion him. True,
Nature had offered full measure. He had
watched the silent peaks battling in gloom
and grandeur with the onsweeping clouds
of the monsoon; had seen on a peerless
dawn the delicate tints of sunrise lighting
lip the land, and found them as vividly
repeating themselves in the crystalline
waters of the bay. He had walked in
the shadow of the nutmeg groves on a sun-
flecked carpet of ferns and mosses; had
admired the curve of the palm bole, with
its crown of leaves downsweeping as if
seeking contact with its mate the sea.
Hut otherwise his aimless days lacked
adventure. He sought romance in the eyes
?*?„sullen, long-persecuted race and found
indifference, varied occasionally by a sudden
n<isli of deep malignant hatred. In a wave of
depression he concluded that his hopes were
doomed. 1 here was no one here waiting to
lead him from the boredom of existence to
the rosy scenes of the romantic stories —•
not here; perhaps not elsewhere, he thought.
. saw Ahmat, the houseboy. step out
into the damp garden from the dining-
room and join a thin Malay youth in a
tightly buttoned sarong. The two black-
capped heads caipe closer together in earnest
conversation; then their bodies simul*
taneously sank down to the favorite
squatting attitude of the Malay and were
lost to view. He felt an impulse to wander
forth in the cool air, and the soft incessant
call of the drums seemed to be drawing
him to them. They were so measured and
unhurried, full of a slow dignity, yet so
intensely alive. As yet he could not read
their message clearly, but it stirred his
blood and forced him out into the dark-
ness of the night.
Br r r a-a-at toko toko toko.
lirrra-a-at. .. . t0k0 .... toko toko. There
was that call again.
By night the roads of Tomcdo are avenues
ot gloom. Overhead great trees meet to
form a tunnel of foliage, and on each side
little shops, lit by feeble kerosene lamps,
range behind the tree trunks. But at the
cinema there was a blaze of light. The
crowd here quite thick and of many
types. Urchins in skirts called to one
another, diving in play -between the quietly
chatting men. Grave-faced Moslems, whose
clothes and demeanor denoted their high
degree of sanctity, walked with dignity,
accompanied by demure-looking women.
Chinese were everywhere, slovenly and
talkative. Through them all the English-
man passed without visible comment. His
presence, he saw, merely attracted a polite
indifference. They reminded him of the
evening crowd in a London suburb, bent on
pleasure, conversation or shopping—just an
ordinary crowd of ordinary human beings, no
more and no less than the teeming lower
classes of his own country, able to offer up
no more on the altars of romance.
Perhaps! But then that music on the
hill, which appeared to increase in volume
so that it was as plainly heard above the
noise of the market-place as it was in the
solitude of the hotel —that music was theirs,
too; it surely marked some contrast to his
simile drawn from London, insisting that the
East held a magic of its own. He wondered
if any Westerner would ever lose the spell
of the East, wondered if Mac Lean, the suc-
cessful business man he had met in Singa-
pore, still felt its presence after twenty
years. Or had it gradually dulled to extinc-
tion?
As he turned up the hillside he realised
that the drums were quite a long way off, and
that if he persisted in this aimless adven-
ture he would miss his dinner at the hotel.
He glanced at his watch and thought he had
better turn back. But he didn’t. Instead,
his steps took him up a narrow tree-shaded
lane, where his cigar glowed in the darkness
and mingled its aroma with the soft scent
of wet earth and flowers. He sauntered
past little homely cottages with brightly-lit
verandahs on which quiet native folk were
passing their leisure hours. The sounds
of krontjongs and mandolines often reached
out to him from the houses till their vibra-
tions failed to journey farther with him
against the heavy, damp-laden air, and then
the gentle but deliberate rhythm of the drums
prevailed and urged him on. The houses
gave way to the silent nutmeg groves, the
track became soft and grassy.
Presently the lights of the house where
the drums were, being played shone clearly
through cracks in the walls on to the deep
earthon-fioored verandah in front. The door
was shut and the noise of the drums seemed
to have become harsher and more strident
in tone. He hesitated as he drew closer. Why
should he enter? How excuse himself for his
intrusion? What, after all, could he find
in that close-shut dwelling? ITe w r as but
following the urge of an idea engendered
by his loneliness and disappointment.
But a figure emerged from the darkness
of the verandah as if it were awaiting his
arrival. Someone came forward quite natur-
ally and led him respectfully with guiding
touch to the door.
As the light streamed out, he noticed with
surprise that it was the young Malay he
had left with Ahmat in the hotel garden.
Had the end of his evening stroll been for-
seen by these two? Did they, too, know the
effect those wild beating notes would have
on,a mind like his, tuned up to adventure?
Some people, he remembered, hold that the
Malay can read the white man’s thoughts
like an open book.
The sudden glare and noise as he entered
dispersed these conjectures. The drums had
lost their refinement in a mere blare of sound,
under which he could distinguish a shrill
treble. accompaniment of flutes and mouth-
organs. The single room of the house was
full of men seated round a long table, and
each was devoting himself wholeheartedly to
the making of noise. Their staring eyes, the
eyes of fanatics, hardly glanced at him, so
wrapped up were they in the performance of
this mysterious rite, which he guessed to be
ot a religious nature. Even the youthful
mouth-organists seemed inspired Great
drops qf sweat ran down their fares
the half-naked bodies which swung back and
forward incessantly in time to the music.
with' Id ml Jr h y ave w i th fawn, but an old man
with kindly bespectacled face came forward
and shook hands with him gravely while a
rnin nf ol efff T a chair - then handed him a
cup of coffee from a pot in the oDen fire-
p ace. A reality that was ludicrous came to
dTnif H r P omes t 0 °“e who wakens from a
dream. There was nothing more to see to
hear or to discover than this gathering that
1 • reVl T aliS - t mae . tin S- His illusions
till from him. leaving him strangely sane
and unemotional, coldly satisfied that he had
laid the ghost of his adventure. He finished
his coffee and said a few words of Malay to
the old Hadji who had welcomed him.
. None of the players took any notice of
him as he got up, nor altered in any wav
of th eir harmonies. He felt their
indifference to his presence almost like a
blow ; it made him feel like a floating leaf
passing along a stream to some horrible
abyss, passing uncared for, unnoticed even
. . at was the end of romance in Tomolo for
him. He decided he would leave by the
next steamer.
But the Malay boy Sari was waiting for
him, and. calling him softly by name, strode
down the road to the sea ahead of him
Instead of princesses and pearls he now
thought of the imminent hotel dinner and
hastened his steps. He could just see his
guide walking in graceful slimness down the
scented paths between the trunks of the
nutmegs; lie heard the bov give a short
aimless whistle, then he lost sight of him,
and....a slight female figure emerged from
the bushes, held him with suppliant fingers.
Tuan, Tuan,” said a low soft voice, and
he turned aside.
The spell had fallen in the old, old way.
He, too. must be reckoned as a victim to
the unchanging magic of the East. Ah! Ir
is always there, waiting its opportunity,
not as the lady-novelist pictures it. but as
mans nature calls it forth. Romance had
walked beside him all the time, leading him
with unfailing instinct to its appointed
revelation.
Together the two figures passed with en-
twining fingers beneath the trees towards a
lighted lint, while the companion of Ahmat,
tne houseboy, assured that his mission was
ended, vanished in the darkness.
Tired Day.
Tired day is half-asleep,
Like a child when curtains sweep
Softly together from the walls,
And talk drifts up from distant halls,
And apple by apple spiders creep.
And cows are milked in quiet stalls.
Horny trees their fingers fold—
Withered Mings in days of old —
In silver-flowing sleeves of light,
Sickle-mooned and star bedight;
And stand so, agfed and a-cold,
Contemplative and eremite.
N.S.W.
CLARE STERPHEN.


THE BERNARD
CRONIN STORY
WRITING COURSE
10 LESSONS.
Mr. Bernard Cronin. whose latest novel
“Bracken,” before being published by Jar-
rolds, Ltd., London, ran through The
Bulletin as a serial, is conducting a
Story Writing Course and is doing it, as
is his habit, efficiently and thoroughly.
Mr. Cronin’s course is, indeed, a master-
piece of expert practicality. The components
of a story—theme, plot, openings, dialogue,
characterisation and description —the very
names of which excite the imagination, and
the awe. of literary aspirants, are considered
in detail with a wealth of illustration and
practical advice that at once removes many
of the more serious obstacles from the path
of the beginner.
The instruction is given in ten lessons
and three supplements. Mr. Cronin’s own
enthusiasm is so great, his sympathy so
large and his handling of the practic ■ work
sent in so competent and confident that the
interest of his pupils never flags, and they
very soon make a good job of every piece
of work they send in. They are helped the
more inasmuch as they are never kept
waiting for their revised work.
It is true that pupils have to work. Mr.
Cronin is not content with less than the
best they can do; and neither are they
allowed to rest content until they have, by
instruction and illustrative revision of parts,
been trained to polish and repolisli until
the whole is a finished piece of work truly
expressive of the writer’s intention and indi-
viduality.
Later, during the advanced lessons, the
pupil is sometimes asked to return to an
earlier stc-ry, and in the light of his-—fre-
quently her —added experience and increased
knowledge improve it to publication stand-
ard. Mr. Cronin is most insistent, however,
ion his pupils submitting to editors none but
good work. Nut, of course, the best they
ultimately will do, but work of such a
standard as will preclude the possibility of
their being classed by editors as p rmanent
mediocrities.
The results are becoming increasingly
apparent. Although Mr. Cronin has been
accepting pupils for only a few months many
of his pupils have already had stories
accepted and published. One of these stories
was published in The Bulletin of March
2, and was described as “a brilliant story.
In February another was featured in “The
Listener-In,” Melbourne. The writer of the
latter story has not yet finished the course,
and the writer of the first had had acceptances
by The Bulletin and “Sydney Morning
Herald” before he had finished the course.
Stories': by other pupils who have not yet
completed the course have appeared in the
“Australian Journal” and several weekly
papers, and editors have asked to see more
of the work of some of these young writers.
Mr. Cronin’s success as a teacher is due
to a combination of forces. He know r s his
subject. He has published several novels
in London and New York, .and has had short
stories published in every part of the
English-speaking world. In nil he has had
hundreds of short stories published.
In the lessons and in his revision of the
work of pupils his methods are orderly,
his manner direct and his matter clear and
definite. In criticising a story he takes first
things first, dealing with the real essence of
the story and showing its inherent worth
as an idea to be developed. Itemised criti-
cisms follow, illustrated by the remodelling
of parts. Frankness and honesty of. pur-
pose are the substance of each criticism,
and all Mr. Cronin’s relations with his
pupils are colored by his own early experi-
ence as a writer who had t,o blaze his own
trail. His object is to save each pupil
much of the time and effort and many of
the discouragements which try the strength
of every writer who has to find his own
way amongst the pitfalls in the path that
leads to publication. . .
In addition to teaching story-writing, Mr.
Cronin criticises the MSS. of writers who
have had only a limited success. 1 his
critical service has proved of great value
to many whose work, through minor faults
of construction or presentation, has just
failed to get publication. . .
Mr. Cronin’s Story Writing Course is fully
described in an illustrated pamphlet,
“Writing to Win.” Copies will be sent post
free to any reader of The Bulletin who
would like' one. Those specially interested
in the criticism of MSS. are. requested to
mention the fact.
The services Mr. Cronin offers to writers
should be known to everyone interested in
writing for publication. Letters can be
addressed to Mr. Bernard Cronin, 3Uh
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
The Pelman Road
TO SUCCESS
MISS SYBIL THORNDIKE’S GREAT TRIBUTE
TO PELMANISM.
A great tribute to Scientific Mind-Training has been
paid by Miss Sybil Thorndike, the world-famous Actress-
Manager.
She and other members of her family are students of
Pelmanism, and she speaks enthusiastically of the benefits
it produces, benefits v/hich develop one s efficiency to the
highest possible level. “Pelmanism,” she says, is the “Open
Sesame,” the key to the magic door of success.
r
83
m
(Pollard, Crowtherts)
MISS SYBIL THORNDIKE,
as “Saint Joan.”
“1 am happy to tell you,” she
writes, “what a really excellent Course
in mind-training we have received
from your 1 2 ‘Little Grey Books.
“I say ‘we’ because not only I, but
other members of my family have
derived benefit from the scientific
mind-training which is so ably and
simply set forth by you. When men-
tally fatigued after strenuous re-
hearsing, a few of your mind exer-
cises quickly bring concentration back
to normal.
Developing Dormant Qualities
‘‘Pelmanism,” Miss Sybil Thorndike
continues, “gives mind exercise scien-
tifically, and because the principles are
scientifically based, it not only im-
proves, but actually discovers qualities
that would otherwise have remained
dormant.
“We all wish for Success, to be
uplifted from the mediocre, but many
people grope blindly and never find
the key to open the magic door lead-
ing to the road.
“Pelmanism, I am convinced,
is the ‘Open Sesame’ that
smooths away all difficulties,
giving a mental clarity and
quality of alertness that sees
opportunities and uses them
rightly.
“One of its chief charms is its sim-
plicity, and with mir.-b rich in per-
ception life becomes a.together more
satisfying.’*
That is Miss Sybil Thorndike s
opinion of Pelmanism.
A Self-confident Outlook.
Thousands of people are following
Miss Thorndike’s advice at the pre-
sent time. They find that Pelmanism
helps them to conquer Indecision,
Shyness, Boredom, Morbid Thoughts,
unnecessary Fears and other mental
faults and failings, to strengthen
Will-power, and to develop a more
cheerful, optimistic and self-confident
outlook on life.
What is even more important in
these very difficult times, they find that
it enables them to double their effici-
ency and consequently to secure
promotion and to increase their
income-earning power.
What Pc manisra Does
A Course of Pelmanism, as Miss
Sybil Thorndike says, brings out the
mind’s latent powers and develops
them to the highest point of effici-
ency. It develops strong, positive,
vital qualities such as:—•
Concentration Decision
Judgment Presence of Mind
Initiative Courage
Will-power Self-confidence
And a Reliable Memory,
all qualities which add to your effici-
ency and earning-power, and are of
the utmost value in every walk of life.
Personal Practical Examples
Here are a few examples of what
Pelmanism is doing at the present
moment, given in the words of men
and women who have trained their
minds and senses by this most won-
derful method:—
A Business Man writes: “The course has
made a new person of me and has given
me a new outlook on life. I have in-
creased my income since taking up the
Course.”
An Architect writes: “It, has put new life
in me, and I think I shall express myself
completely if I say I am living an
entirely different life since I took your
Course.”
A Public Servant writes: “Pelmanism
has taught me what it is to be quick in
mind, sound in body, energetic, confident,
quick at hearing, retention and many
other things.”
An Electrician writes: “I can cencentrate
longer on a given subject. Have a much
better memory. Have better Will-power.
Not liable to get irritated at things.”
A Professional Man writes: “Thanks to
the Pelman System I have doubled my
income during the last few years. It
has been all to me that you claimed for
it, and I am very grateful to you.”
A Typist writes: “I have recently had an
increase in salary, which I feel sure is
due to carrying out my daily task as near
as possible to the Pelman method.”
A Housewife writes: “I feel mentally
brighter, stronger in mind and body, and
less of a nonentity since taking up the
Course, for it has, with your tactful
advice, helped me once more to have con-
fidence in myself.”
An Accountant writes: “Last month I
realised the first economical profits ot
the Course. I had my salary increased
tO per cent, more than all the others.
My chief astonished me by saying: ‘Why
are you now working better than ever?’
My conscience answered with one word
only : ‘Peimanism.’ ”
Simple and Interesting
The Pelman Course can be easily
followed by any reader. As Miss
Sybil Thorndike says: “One of its
chief charms is its simplicity. It is
exceedingly interesting and does not
take up very much time. It can be
practised for half an hour evqyy even-
ing or at odd moments during the
day.
If, therefore, you wish to increase
your efficiency and income-earning
power and make the fullest use of
the powers now lying latent, or only
semi-developed, in your mind, you
should write at once for a free copy
of “The Efficient Mind.”
This book contains a full descrip-
tion of the Pelman Course for the
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory
and Personality. A Copy will be
sent you gratis and post free, on
writing for it to-day to the Pelman
Institute, 3 Gloucester House (corner
Market Street and Flinders Lane),
Melbourne. Call or write for this
free book to-day. Inquiries are re-
garded as confidential communica-
tions. We have no outdoor represen-
tatives.
Readers who can call at the Institute
will be cordially welcomed. The Chief
Consultant mil be glad to have a talk
with them f and no fee will be charged
for his advice.
The Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l.
Please send your free book, “The Efficient Mind.” In asking for it I incur
no obligation
NAME
323 ADEF.ESS
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
fafiulUtia
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose £.....' ».
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
Mm
0
S#
0°
e
1'
C A e *
» o<&
5 e
5®
V' 6
e
.• ■' . •'' . . * ■
•'' a
.-•■
' sftrsJ^
"■ V***
c*V^


-
Even if your car’s
as cold as a frog' in
a frozen pool —
sd
6 Volts 13 Plates
76/-
Also Obtainable—
-6 Volts 15 Plates
12 Volts 9 Plates
Prices as at Capital Cities.
YOU’LL STILL GET AN
INSTANT START IF
YOU’VE AN
44
BATTERY
Obtainable from your Local Garage or Exide Service Station.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Brisbane: Exide Battery Service (Q.), Ltd.
Sydney: Exide Battery Service (Gibson,
Battle and Co., Ltd.).
Melbourne: A. P. Sutherland.
Adelaide: Unbehaun and Johnstone, Ltd.
Perth: M. J, Bateman, Ltd.
Hobart: Medhurst and Sons Pty., Ltd.
V. '■ ‘ , ' * ' “’ '* ' '
.When it’s an Sxti«- You START-
