

F I S K,
S E Rl E S
n rre
oo
V
q vES precept/o/y
WITHOUTT-d-irLal or Carbih
RADIOLA
m
m
:
I
*
43$
m
'? % > ■
Owners of this remarkable Radiola point with pride
to the fact that they can get interstate reception with-
out an aerial or earth and with no interference. Never
before have they heard a receiver with such super-
lative tone —with such life-like reproduction. The
station wanted can be tuned in without the slightest
overlapping.
Using six valves, including rectifier, the Radiola 55E
has many new and advanced radio engineering
features.
For range and richness of tone ... for fidelity of
reproduction . . . for dependable, trouble-free radio
reception . . . and for the greatest value at the lowest
price, the Radiola is without equal.
Equipped with Radiotrons.
■
Easy Terms available.
‘37d
The attractive walnut cabinet is
of distinctly modern design with
a beautiful hand-rubbed finish.
RADIOLA
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED
The Bulletin
(Xbkjd jiyv CL tycLCjb 8
Vol. 53.—N0. 2727.
Wednesday, May 18, 1932*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


QUR Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
w with full terms and particulars, post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
e
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
tioolclet, explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .
Mil Address
SB. 132
vnvyisnv
\d
G
O
JLHOVSATt
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
%
-
t.
H
&
ticura
H
MEDICINAL
«OU.f>
tflr
Every time you wash your face
and hands use this delicately
medicated Soap and note how
it not only cleanses but also pro-
tects the skin. Made of the pur-
est ingredients, Guilcura
Soap is ideal for daily use for
all the family.
Price 1/-. Sample free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Better Business.”
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
Cbe Dominion
“THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
AUSTRALIAN
GOLD YIELD for 1931
W.A. Bigger than All Other States
Combined
By Over Half a Million Ounces.
Gold produced in the six Australian States
during 1931 aggregated 591,744 fine ounces,
an increase of 125,165 fine ounces compared
with the figures for 1930. .Western Australia
headed the list, with 510,572' fine ounces, this
yield being the highest since 1922, when the
production was 538,246 fine ounces. Many
companies have adopted a more vigorous work-
ing policy in view of the high price obtainable
for gold. Prospects of a further increase in
production are bright. National advertisers
wishing to cover the prosperous Western market
must use “The Sunday Times” for complete
coverage.
PROSPERITY IN OUR MIDST!
gives quantity and quality circulation
at a remarkably low rate per inch.
U/H
THE PATRIOT
■DIRECT MEDIUMTg WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. O. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes. •
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: P. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “-Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOUSEHOLD PAGES
SOCIAL NOTES-ALL STATES.'"
LADY'S LONDON LETTER.
AUSTRALIANS ABROAD.
Etc. Etc. Etc.
THE AUSTRALASIAM
ON SALE ALL STATES 6!
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
On the Land
A cable mentioned recently that “The
Good Earth,” which was warmly praised on
this page a few months ago, “leads the 1932
list of Pulitzer prize awards.” It is a tribute
to an honest bit of work. The farmer-hero
is a Chinese, but any Caucasian can under-
stand him: his.type is universal. With a
few exceptions, toilers on the land have
no time, or use, for aestheticism. Their
vocabularies are small and idiomatic, and
their thoughtnprocesses simple. The farmer
who hasn’t a one-track mind is usually a
failure. The soil is a form of religion to
him, a continual refreshment, a refuge from
worry or satiety. In “The Good Earth”
Wang, after a period of scented dalliance
with the Geisha, Lotus, suddenly hears “a
voice deeper than love crying out in him
for his land.” He tears off his fine clothes,
goes out into the fields and returns after
“a mighty day of labor.”
When she saw him she cried out at the earth
upon his clothes, and shuddered when he came near
her.
But he laughed, and he seized her small curling
hands in his soiled ones, and he laughed again anc
said: “Now you see that your lord is but a farmer.’
He ate his evening rice, all stained as he was
witji the earth, and unwillingly he washed himself
even before he slept.
It expresses the immemorial attitude of the
true farmer; a contempt for sensuousness,
a continual urge to get back to the only
thing that matters.
The Brundishes of Suffolk.
H. W. Freeman has drawn some masterly
portraits of East Anglian farmers, but none
so human and likable as Adam Brundish
and his son Dick, the central figures of
Fathers of Their People (Chatto and Win-
dus; 7s. 6d.). The Brundishes have owned
Pond Hall for three centuries when the
story begins. Mrs. Brundish is “superior”;
her mother’s father was a solicitor. She
wants Dick to become a “gentleman,” to
shun the company of the farm-hands who
revel at the Bird in Hand (where Adam
shames her by getting drunk periodically)
and, above all, not to follow the example
of his licentious grandfather. But Dick is
a bom farmer. He runs away from school
is seen ploughing by his father, and at
harvest-time embarks proudly on his life’s
work. His sexual experiences begin early
as is the local custom, but he doesn’t fal
in love till Rose Gale, who was once his
school-teacher, yields to him. She has
learned to speak correctly at Lowestoft, but
she relapses into her native dialect under
the spell of passion.
“Oh, Hick, I wholly love you. I ha’n’t nevei
forgot you since last September-time.’’
She wondered at the natural ease with which the
words rolled off her tongue, smooth and round with
use like stream-worn pebbles; it was the only
language for love-making.
It is indeed a beautiful language, with an
old-fashioned lilt and music of its own.
“Come you along, and I’ll show you my
darlings,” says Abner, the shepherd, refer-
ring to the new-born lambs he is looking
after. “I’d wholly like to,” says Dick, anc
when they separate, “Farewell, Abner.”
Rose is willing enough to marry Dick, as
the prospective owner of Pond Hall, which
she dreams of turning into a social centre;
but when he quarrels over her with his
father, leaves home in a rage, and gets work
with a neighboring farmer, her feelings
change. They meet:—
She gave a little cry of surprise. This sweaty,
dirty-faced man with tousled hair, in neckerchief
faded coat and .worn corduroy trousers, this v;as not
her dashing cavalier. He was a farm-laborer and
nothing more.
“Why, what’s the matter, love?’’ he queried, un-
comprehending, and taking her by the arm, drew
her to him, to kiss lyr.
“Ugh!’’ she gasped. “You smell of drink, you
brute!” After all her struggles to lift herself out
of the ruck to the level of refinement, to be clawed
by a laborer, a drunken laborer! She squirmed and
tore herself out of his grasp.
The reconciliation with his father is
brought about at the Bird in Hand by
two of the family’s laborers. They arrive
at the farm dragging Dick between them.
He has thrashed Adam’s enemy, Seth Rum-
below, in a fight. Jack Mouser explains:—
“And then, master, becourse we stood him pints,
and all the rest of ’em too, and so he got bloody
boozed ; and then he takes the fancy like to come
and say farewell to the hosses, ’cause he say he’s
a-going to Australia next week.”
“Going to Australia?” repeated Adam, aghast,
and all the warmth went out of him.
Abner reassures him:—
“Master,” he whispered in Adam’s ear, “don’t
you worry no more. She’ve throwed him up.”
“Who? What?”
“Why, that bitch Rose Gale!” hissed Abner.
Adam smiled. He understood now, he was master
tf himself once more.
“Come you on, boys,” he said at last, “let’s
put the bloody young rascal to bed.”
The story ends on a note of impending
tragedy. Dick is
still unmarried
when the war
starts. He hears
that the Germans
may invade his
beloved England.
“Well, blast me,” he cries, “we shall wholly
have to keep the bastards out,” and he
enlists.
A Backbloclcs Gent.
It is a melancholy fact that few Aus-
tralian writers dare to tell the truth about
Australian farmers. To read many novels
which have been published by famous Lon-
don houses in recent years one might
imagine that the out-back worker combines
the chastity of a St. Anthony with stone
sobriety, and the precise speech of a Pro-
fessor of Literature. Robert Gray’s Rufus
Sterne (Blackwood; 7s. 6d.) is the latest
example. Rufus has been brought up as
a cow-cocky, without being allowed to fulfil
his ambition of attending a high school.
Does he light a fag, hitch up his strides
and get down to dinkum graft like the
other blokes? Or go on the booze? Or
talk of bonzer tarts and fair cows? Or
deal out stoush? Or use the Great Aus-
tralian, or any other, adjective? He does
not. Helen Creighton, a society girl from
distant Melbourne (“This frank creature,
with her glorious face, stretching her lovely
silk-clad limbs before him”) is much im-
pressed when she comes across him reading
Carlyle after a spell at the plough. She is
staying with the Staveleys, who are far
above the Sternes in the social scale, and
young Jack Staveley is in love with her.
She marries Staveley in the end, and Rufus
marries Abbey Cromer, formerly a maid at
the Staveleys’. He marries Abbey because
they were held up one night after a dance.
happened, despite her amorous
advances, but her father said he had com-
promised her. Later Staveley deserts Helen,
she becomes an invalid, and renews her
friendship with Rufus.
Helen looked at the blue sky through the filtering
leaves. The day i s on our si Oh, Ruddy! It
vvas a joyous thought that we should snatch one day
from life—qne day free, and beautiful.”
“Your joyous thought, Helen; you have a genius
for splendid ideas.”
“And you for making them fruit, Ruddy. What
have you there?”
“My ’possum rug; you are to lie on it. Did you
think that you were to sit for hours on your throne
dear lady?” ’
All use the same abominably stilted lan-
guage except an Irish laborer, and Abbey,
who at first talks bush Australian:—
“You are a one, Ruf! Ma says it’s right down
queer the way you don’t go to dances.”
And, after her betrayal by Staveley, like
this:—
“It was Jack’s fault, too.”
“Abbey, Abbey, are you so weak?”
“Well, he was kind to me, Miss Helen, and I
never meant”.... Sobs convulsed her again. When
she was quieter Helen spoke. “Yes, yes; you told
him your troubles and he sympathised.” Abbey
nodded. “Yes, that was it....and then, and then
he didn’t care any more.”
The author knows his characters—Rufus,
quick-tempered and highly-sexed; Helen,
who can love two men at the same time;
Abbey, an gager, buxom country wench—
but he won’t allow them to behave in char-
acter. Any church would be justified in
canonising Rufus and Helen, and Abbey
only slips once. However, it is the dia-
logue that makes them so fantastically un-
true to Australian life. We have a thou-
sand expressions which are as racy of the
soil as kangaroos. Why are most of our
novelists too genteel to use them? Where
is the sense in labelling people dairy-farmers
and servant-girls, and making them talk as
a priggish English pedagogue might if he
had plenty of time to choose his words.
The thing is a calamity whichever way it
is looked at. Sincere books like those of
Mr. Freeman make us love and admire the
English; travesties like Rufus Sterne
make the English and all other sensible folk
grin at us.
RED PAGE.
Why Hollywood Is Scoring
Tile great disadvantage of Los Angeles as a
producing centre was. in its provincial location.
JUstree was within a few miles of London, where its
actors and directors had their headquarters The
whole artistic activity of Los Angeles poured into
the channel of films. People talked about films,
thought about films, and dreamed of hoisting them-’
selves into positions as scenario-writers and actors.
Only the most meagre rivulets of European news
penetrated into the columns of the leading Los
Angeles newspapers.”—From a lecture before the
Film, Society by Kenneth Wilkinson, of the “S M
Herald.”
I have never been to Hollywood, but
this helps to confirm a suspicion I have
long had about the much-abused place—
that it is a kind of art-centre. The con-
ditions described distinguish art-centres
everywhere, and in every age. It may also
account for the fact that, -witless though
nine-tenths of Hollywood’s productions are,
the best (“Disraeli,” “City Lights,” “Front
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—PIain Statements oj fact.
ENGLISH AND AUSTRALIAN TWEED
OVERCOATS
now selling at
LESS than Original COST
Raglan and Double-breasted Styles
In Four Price Groups
Originally 501- to 84!-
SPECIAL
PRICE
è
Smart English Tweeds, in most popular
Raglan style. Perfectly well made through-
out. Special Purchase Price .... 19/11
Originally 70i- to 1261-
SPECIAL
PRICE
39*6
English and Australian Tweed Overcoats,
in splendid fleeces, Velours, etc.
Special Purchase Price 39/6
Originally 551- to 951 ■
SPECIAL
PRICE
29*6
Huge variety of English and Australian
Tweed Overcoats to be cleared at this
Special Purchase Price 29/6
Originally 1051- to 1351-
SPECIAL
PRICE
49'«
Smart and exclusive Tweed Overcoats.
Made from high-class English Tweeds.
Special Purchase Price 49/6
Mens Clothing—Ground Floor, George Street—We 'pay carriage.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
COMPARE QUALITY FOR QUALITY AND PRICE FOR PRICE
ssg
m
i
vm
<
'Vv,
\\ "'•
'O y**.-..'"-'
%
JUMBUK"
UNDERWEAR
Is Australian through and through
Made of selected, long-staple, pure woollen yarn, “Jumbuk” Australian Underwear
provides the right protection against the snares of winter. The soft, down-like
surface of the fabric is faultless, and guaranteed unshrinkable. The elastic texture
gives to every movement of the body. “Jumbuk” Underwear is obtainable only at
Anthony Horderns’, and combines low price with warm comfort.
*“JUMBUK” Underwear for Men
No. 440—*“Jumbuk” Natural All
Wool. Exact warm winter-weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36, 38
Shirts, short sleeves 12/- 12/6 13/3
Underpants 13/6 14/- 14/9
Sizes, inches
40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves
14/3 15/3 16/6 17/6 18/6
Underpants—
-15/9 16/9 18/- 19/- 20/-
Undershirts with long sleeves 1 /3 extra.
No. 55 *“Jumbuk” Natural Wool and
Cotton, extra warm weight.
Sizes, inches 34 36’ 38
Shirts, short sleeves 7/6 8/- 8/6
Underpants 8/3 8/9 9/3
Sizes, inches—•
40 42 44 46 48 50
Shirts, short sleeves —
9/- 9/9 10/6 11/3 12/-
Underpants—■
9/9 10/6 11/3 12/- 12/9
*“JUMBUK” Athletic Singlets
**‘Jumbuk” Athletic Singlets. In Cream all wool. No sleeves.
Bound braid around neck and armholes. Sizes 34in. to 44in. chest.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each •• 4/11
( Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. We -pay carriage.)
*“JUMBUK” Underwear for Boys
No. 330—*“Jumbuk” Natural All Wool. Medium winter-weight.
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, short sleeves '. . . 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/9 6/6 7/3 8/-
No. 25 *“Jumbuk” Natural Wool and Cotton. Warm winter-
weight
Sizes, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Shirts, short sleeves 4/3 4/6 4/9 5/3 5/6 6/- 6/6
Boys’ *“Jumbuk” Trunk Drawers. Lightweight natural wool and
cotton.
Sizes, inches, waist 24 26 28 30 32
3/9 4/- 4/3 4/6 5/3
Boys’ Mercery—Second Floor—We pay carnage.
*“JUMBUK” (registered) TRADE-MARK.
«>
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: CASTLEREAGH STREET AND MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
During the past 18 years the M.L.C. has withstood the assaults of
The Great War
fit the termination of which every penny of extra premiums charged to cover
war risk was refunded to policy'holders or their representatives;
The Pneumonic Influenza Epidemic
which cost the Company an immense sum in claims, which were paid with
customary M.L.C. promptness; and
The World-wide Financial Crisis
which has found no gap in the Company's defences.
Notwithstanding the difficulties of 1931, the 45th Annual Report is one of the
best on record.
The total income of the Company was . .
The net new assurances in the Ordinary Branch were . .
which has been exceeded on one occasion only.
The Assets at 31/12/1931 amounted to . .
of which £16,946,873, or 83.24 per cent., was repre-
sented by Public Securities.
The payments to policy-holders were
The amount paid to policy-holders since the inception of the
Company was .. .. .. .. ..
At the end of the year the sums assured in force (including
bonus additions) were
£3,066,492
4,321,063
20,359,944
1,761,032
24,881,15/
56,072,761
THE M.L.C. IS IMPREGNABLE
TRUSTEES
John Donaldson, A.1.A., Melbourne.
The Hon. Sir Joseph H. Carruthers,
K.C.M.G., LL.D., M.D.C., Sydney.
The Hon. Sir H. Y. Braddon, K.8.E.,
M.L.C., Sydney.
Rt. Hon. W. A. Watt, P.C., Melbourne.
J. B. Eggleston, Melbourne.
Walter Fell, M.D., Oxon., M.R.C.S.,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Sir Nicholas Lockyer, C.8.E., 1.5.0.,
Melbourne.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Arthur Eedy, Managing Director.
\Y. .T. Bloomfield, 8.A., LL.B.
The Hon. James Ashton, M.L.C., Chairman.
James Kell.
F. Leverrier, K.C., 8.A., B.Sc.
CllCtoli C "thePerfeaStoch Ptoofß,
//ce.
Lw'
ifcSUMfcdE
rwtt
V/vV-
*’*-**«
k'A*
Wii,
/W 4
Cyc
MATERIAL
Same cost- as
wire c dropper
fence. *
“Cyclone” controls every class
of stock! It is RIGID —
cannot sag or stretch! No
maintenance! Practicaly ever-
lasting! And costs are actually
LESS than the “wire-and-
é
LABOR
*
ê
dropper” fence! The material costs no more and labor
is £8 A MILE cheaper—for "Cyclone” is erected in
a little more than half the time. 'Cyclone” Rmglock
Fencing is sold in 5-chain rolls.
M
-=<
>-
=<s
<s
m
t l ' ir r
CYCLONE FENCE & CATE C^P^U 0
24 JAMTESON STREET, SYDNEY. (
And at Melbourne and Adelaide.
! POST
! COUPON
Please send me by return mail your free illustrated and priced
Catalogue of “Cyclone” Metal Gates and Ring-Lock Fences and
comparison of costs.
Name ' '
Addrett. ’ ' . B. 18/5/’32
MARIPOSA and MONTEREY
nave CABIN as well as FIRST CLASS
A NEW STANDARD IN
Gab in Glass J^uxury
on these new super-liners to America
over the shortest route to ENGLAND
BRINGING a revelation in luxurious comfort and
modern convenience for cabin class travel, these two
new giants of the sea will speed you from Sydney to Los
Angeles in eighteen days over the short, cool route to
America and England.
All staterooms—Cabin Class as well as First Class— on the
"Mariposa" and "Monterey" have individual beds and
telephone. Unusually large, they are beautifully decorated
and their attractive furnishings include a dressing table,
full length mirror and capacious wardrobe. They are kept
delightfully fresh and cool with a change of air every
three minutes.
Lounge, smoking room and dining salon ... outdoor swim-
ming plunge . .. broad decks for ship sports . . . talkies . . .
radio . . . dancing . . . daily newspaper . . these manifold
cabin class facilities make your voyage replete with inter-
est and gay diversion.
Your route takes you via Auckland to the fascinating ports
of Suva, Pago-Pago and Honolulu to San Francisco, and
you can reach England within 28 days. A more leisurely
trip may include the Olympic Games at Los Angeles . . .
Hollywood . .. Yosemlte ... Lake Tahoe ... Grand Canyon
. . . Chicago . . . Washington , . with a grand climax at
New York. NQ , NCREAS g , N p ARES
Sydney to San Francisco or Los Angeles,
Cabin Class from £50/10
Melbourne to San Francisco or Los Angeles,
Cabin Class from £52/10
The "Mariposa" makes her first departure from Sydney.
June 4, from Melbourne June I; the "Monterey" from
Sydney July 2, from Melbourne June 28. Through trans-
portation can be arranged to any point in England or
America.
Now ' - MELBOURNE
will be a regular port of call of the NEW Oceanic super-liners
"MARIPOSA" and "MONTEREY"
This NEW express service will start with the first regular voyage
of the “Mariposa.’’
Let us give you full particulars
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
MATSON LINE
12 BRIDGE STREET . SYDNEY
AGENTS: DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED
341 Collins St. and 461 Bourke St., Melbourne
Phone: Central 288 (5 lines)
M5-6A
The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
It’s up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
• <O,
ë


FOLLOW THE SUN
I
A delightful sea
trip to the Tropi-
cal North through
the Barrier Reef
By Interstate
Passenger Liner.
The Ideal Winter Tour
BY SEA to
CAIRNS
NORTH QUEENSLAND
Smooth Seas —Sunny Skies —to Tropical
Charms.
BOOK YOUR PASSAGE BY
Manunda, Canberra, Katoomba, Ormiston.
VISIT MAGNETIC ISLAND, PALM ISLAND AND THE
BARRON FALLS.
Round Trip from Melbourne —26 days.
Round Trip from Sydney—l 9 days.
Full particulars and pamphlet jrom. —
A.U.S.N. CO., LTD. All Ports.
McILWRAITH McEACHARN, LTD. . . „
HOWARD SMITH LTD »
ADELAIDE S. CO., LTD
Page,” “Laughter,” etc.) are fax* ahead of
anything Elstree is turning out.
One notices about the art-world of
Chelsea that it is as self-centred as a pro-
vincial village, that the members talk pic-
tures, think pictures and dream of achieving
fame and wealth through pictures, and that
they take very little intex*est in . what
journalists call “news.” It is the same on
Montmartre and Montparnasse. The visitor
who isn’t an artist gets as sick of the
eternal subject of art as one who isn’t an
actor does of the talk in a theatrical club.
It seems to be necessary for the develop-
ment of any kind of art. In the golden age
of Athens the inhabitants talked, thought
and dreamt beauty, and achieved it.
Greece “crossed the Alps,” in the phi’ase of
Argyropulos, in the fifteenth century; the
Florentines started talking, thinking and
dreaming classic art and literature, and
the Floi*entine renascence began. London
was remote from the world of culture* at
the time. Oxford was the only place in all
England where Erasmus could learn Greek.
A century later Italy “crossed the Channel,”
so to speak. London began to talk, think
and dream plays and poetry, and Shak-
speare, Spencer, Sidney, Jonson, Middle-
ton, Dekker and the rest all burst on the
world together. London has onfy talked,
thought and dreamt architecture, from the
Sovereign downwards, once in its his-
tory : when the Great Fire destroyed a
cathedral, 84 parish churches and 13,000
houses. Wren, Vanbrugh, Grinling Gib-
bons, Inigo Jones and many other archi-
tects and carvers, whose works delight mil-
lions to this day, immediately appeared.
The principle applies to the humblest kinds
of artists. Sydney keeps on producing
Murdochs, Trumpers, Macartneys and Brad-
mans because thousands of Sydneyites talk,
think and dream cricket; it has only pro-
duced two flocks of great boxers, each time
after promoters of genius had set thou-
sands of Sydneyites talking, thinking and
dreaming boxing.
I spent a good deal of time at Elstree a
few years back; watched Dupont directing
one picture and Hitchcock another, and
met many of the performers, all of whom,
except one or two American stars, were
English. One thing struck me about these
English film-artists, and I soon found it
had struck many others; they seemed to be
rather ashamed of their pi’ofession. It
was hard to get them to talk about it, and
when they did they usually started with
veiled apologies for being at Elstree, and
explanations that they wei*e only filling in
time, or making an interesting experiment,
or something of that, sort.
We all want British films to beat those
of the U.S.A., and some Australians keep
bravely insisting that they are doing it.
The British know better. A cultivated
Londoner, in the latest book by that loyal
Englishman and accomplished critic' Fran-
cis Bii*rell, writes to a Philistine i*elative
like this:—
“Good God! You dare to pitch into the Americans
when you can, yourself, only produce these miserable
photographic versions of worn-out West End
comedies!”
When the average British film isn’t a re-
production of a stage play it is usually an
imitation of a Hollywood success. The
smallest details are copied. Some years ago
Von Sternberg sent his camera-man to the
top of a winding staircase and got some
interesting effects; all the dud English
directors followed suit. Someone in Holly-
wood got the idea of indicating a night of
worry by showing a tray of cigarette butts;
cigarette butts soon began to figure in Els-
tree pictures; and so on. It doesn’t mean
that the English are less original than they
were, only that they are passing through
a phase. The Euphuists were common fea-
tures of the Elizabethan landscape when
Italy was the spiritual home of every
English writer. Shakspeare cai’icatured one
in Armado. They disappeared as soon as
English drama and poetry found forms
and idioms of their own. The film-world
is full of Euphuists—Hollywoodised Eng-
lishmen, Europeans and even Asiatics.
Hollywood is to them what Florence was
to scholars of the early part of the six-
teenth century; a remote place where the
only things they are interested in are talked,
thought and dreamt about. That is why
an Englishman like Arliss produces a film
as British as “Old English” at Hollywood;
why the English-born Chaplin also pro-
duces all his pictures there; why English
playwrights like Lonsdale write there; and
why the leading Continental producers
(Russians, of course, excepted), and the
world’s leading film stars, English and Ger-
man, French and Italian, Swedish, Danish
and Japanese, as well as American, live
there. It is the only place where there is
a constant flow and clash of ideas about the
cinema. Eventually, no doubt, Elstree will
begin to turn out films as novel and unmis-
takably English as any Elizabethan play or
poem. But it won’t happen till the direc-
tors, writers, stars and supers of Elstree
begin to forget they are within a few
miles of Piccadilly Circus, and become as
provincially detached and absorbed in their
work as their opposite numbers at Holly-
wood seem to be.
J.D.
Truth in Fiction
The Red Page reviewer (30/4/’32) uses
my ideas on the unimportance of actuality
in art as a text. “M.G.5.,” he says, after
citing some errors of fact, “should approve
of ‘Threads of Yesterday’; it is com-
pletely divorced from actuality.” “M.G.S.”
wouldn’t and doesn’t approve of the work.
If I hadn’t known that it had been written
by a teacher at Geelong College I believe
I would have guessed it was written by a
schoolmaster. I got no illusion of real
human beings from it. The only impression
I got was of a schoolmaster trying to bluff
himself that the world is like what he
would like a public school to be.
Dostoieffsky, in “Crime and Punishment,”
conveys to me a complete illusion of
reality, although about the only concession
to actuality in it is an occasional refer-
ence to samovars. If Dostoieffsky had
subsituted teapots for samovars and I hadn’t
known that Russians don’t drink tea out
of teapots, I would still have retained the
illusion of reality; and if I had known
that Russians don’t drink tea out of tea-
pots I would still have retained it.
The whole point is, what is the illusion
aimed at? In other words, what is the sub-
ject matter of the work. If it is Russian
drinking habits, then teapots instead of
samovars would destroy it completely. But
it doesn’t happen to be Russia’s drinking
habits. It is the inferiority complex of
Ruskolnikoff, which drives him to commit
a dreadful crime. This is the subject
matter, and in his treatment of it Dostoieff-
sky creates an illusion of reality that a
hundred teapots would be powerless to
destroy. Take “Measure for Measure.”
What is the subject matter of that? Not
Vienna —Shakspeare knew and cared so
little about the actuality Vienna that he
even gave some of his Viennese English
names. The subject matter is the repressed
sexual desires of Angelo, which, in the
guise of moral indignation, drive him to
unimaginable brutalities.
I have used these exalted illustrations
because there is no doubt in anybody’s
mind where these works stand in the pan-
theon of art, whereas there is a great deal
of doubt as to the ultimate value of the
sort of books that stream into a newspaper
office week by week. So here is a home-
lier example. Suppose the Red Page
reviewer knew a lot of facts about Timbuc-
too, while I knew a lot of facts about Oota-
camund. According to his argument, if he
read a good psychological study about
people in Timbuctoo the illusion would
be destroyed for him if the author were
wrong in some of his facts. But it obvi-
ously wouldn’t be destroyed for me, because
I wouldn’t know whether the facts were
right or wrong. Similarly, if he read a good
psychological study about people in Ootaca-
mund, he would think it a fine book,
although I might be able to point out
several errors of fact.
Anyhow, Mr. Red Page is much sounder
in his practice than his theory. In all
his three reviews he quite properly bases
his final judgments on the true subject
matter of the books—the analysis of human
character.
M. G. S.
[The fact that a poet made errors of fact in the
sixteenth century doesn’t justify a novelist making
them in the twentieth century. Shakspeare wrote
in a desperate hurry for audiences as untravelled
as he was. It meant no more to thousands of
Elizabethans when a dramatist gave Bohemia a
sea-coast, say, than it does to thousands like
“M.G.S.” when a novelist makes Londoners of
Melbournites. Shakspeare’s knowledgeable friends,
such as Ben Jonson. criticised his slips as “wanting-
in art,’’ just as similar slips are objected to by
those who notice them to-day.
It is a waste of time for “M.G.S.” to speculate
about how he would feel if Dostoieffsky depicted
Russians drinking tea out of teapots instead of
samovars, or if some other eminent writer misrepre-
sented Timbuctoo or Ootacamund. A characteristic of
modern novelists of standing is that they don’t do
such things; it is one of the few idiosyncrasies which
all of them —English, American, French, Russian—
have in common. They know, as Balzac and Thacke-
ray did, that if they are to get the atmosphere
they are after, convince the readers whose opinions
they value most, they must be accurate about their
characters’ surroundings, habits, etc., as well as
about their soul-processes. —R.P.]
And a Little Verse
YAM CORROBOREE.
Hidden beneath the mia-mia waits
The group of young initiates.
The rest beside a fire squat
Making the hairy tubers hot,
Or dance, with painted bodies, round
The ring of weeded ground,
Ranting,
And chanting
“We are your sons, O yams!'’
An old man decorates, in diagrams
Of yellow mud
And mud of red, like blood,
The girl mikinyatinga.
The boys come out,
And all about
The gathered watchers sing a
Protective charm against the far
Bright peril of the shooting star,
Praising the lucky bamajinni—
Those armlets, gaudy as toys,
Upon the boys,
At which the skinny
Excited gins
Are pointing. Soon begins
The merry
Wild arri-majundern—
A riot of daubed faces, arms and limbs.
These and a score such whims
They carry out,
Having no doubt
Of what they do,
Just as you
And I have none
When, to enhance
Our sustenance,
We do the things thought needful to
be done.
N.T.
FREDERICK T. MACARTNEY.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications inefficiently stamps,
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ,
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
G.E.W.: Hopeless at that length
Linwood (Kansas): Thanks for your compliments.
Sony your verse makes no appeal.... John H.:
First stanza of “Tree of Life” is the best you have
done. Second is terrible. Listen: —
While his mind is the fertile seed that lies
Where evolving creation will make it rise.
....Spindrift: Too much like thistledown... .W.H.:
Much obliged; but The B. prints only original
matter.... Chatterton: Doesn’t make a picture....
T. Gil: Your ships carry no new freight A.F.:
There is feeling in it, but not much strength or
originality. Well worth encouraging F.E.S.:
“Curse of Nature” has run its course and now lies
passive in the basket. .. .Erica B.: We’d hate to
seem rude; still, if you can do anything else, we
advise you to do it... .Sheena: You’ve got ideas,
but they don’t excuse some of your commonplace
lines C.C.W.A.: Strictly between you and us, it
is better than the fellow deserves. He threw out
one of our poems once, though he worked
in the next r00m... .Edward H.: Your “Pebbles’
don’t make a splash.... Nellie K.: “Whispering
Wind” is moaning among the other R.1.P.’5....
V.J.M.: “Butterfly” nearly fluttered in; and there
are some nice lines in “Derelict.” But get away from
the obvious.. .Ruth P.: You must be a Government
wage-slave to afford so much time for day-dreaming.
T.M.S.: Not enough hope to hang a cobweb on.
Kamo: Too long-drawn-out. Otherwise accept-
able P.A.D.: Weli enough done; but the idea is
timeworn Ido: Well, we don’t F.R.T.: Comb
it out. The stuff is there, but all tangled
R.D.: Excellence of the manner almost carried it
through John C.: On the border line; but the
humor is a bit too forced Avrool: Length killed
the slender chance it had.... Huck W.: Too many
words; too few ideas H.H.D.: Contributions for
those pages should not exceed about- 300 words....
G. 8.: Yes, but what do you suggest?... .John O’C.:
Two things in your favor —brevity and some idea
of humor. But crude so far... .R.E.: “Three
Truths” are lying at the bottom of a we 11....
Clem: We’re not much concerned about reductions
of public-service pay. What we’re asking for is a
great reduction of the public service Dulcie R.:
Very thin broth W.A.M.: Your verse has quality,
and is growing in simplicity D.C.: Avoid the
rhetorical 1.A.A.: If your theme had the fresh-
ness of some of the lines the poem would be a
winner W.D.E.: Feeling in it, but it’s not up
to publication standard M.C.: You are learning
something about form. Try writing in simple metre
some emotion you have really felt.... The Combine:
Trust the cook can shoot better than you can rhyme.
T.P.B.: Not bad, but you’re weak on quanti-
ties —the second syllable of “impotent,” for instance.
. ...R.0.: Destroyed it is... .E.R.M.: Sloppy....
1.C.: Not a hope J.Mcl.: A hundred baekbloeks
bards at a conservative estimate have sung “the
rattle of the rain upon the roof” before you Some-
body’s Sister: You might crash a school magazine
with it Tim; Doubt if it would be accepted any-
where. .. .A.M.; Execrable, even for a Phar Lap
poem G.P.: Be natural. “Thee” and “thou” and
“ye” are scarcely ever used in modern verse
A.S.: Nicely done, but done too often T.F.M.:
Not suitable for this Page:.. .M.T.: They
show talent. Beware of adjectives and senti-
mentality, and read the modern as well as the
ancient poets... .G.F.: You have the gift of saying
what you have to say clearly. Make your subject a
little less obvious... .A.C.: Broken-up lines don’t
make poetry... .P.R.T.: An idea in it, and a capital
last line; apart from that the treatment is on old-
fashioned sentimental lines... .Not,t: Six lines of
your ode to Bundaberg:—
Bert Hinkler’s birthplace takes the bun.
My grand-dad christened him;
And Gladys Mbncrieff’s father played
Church organ with its “Seraphim.”
And now is launched —the great amongst—
Of soon world-known —Molly de Gunst.
Francis J. B.: (1) “The Grave” gets nearer
print than anything else you’ve done. Other much
too long. (2) Ask Mrs. Gilmore, Trenton House,
Phillip-street, Sydney... .E.W.K.: Some talent; not
enough depth. ... A.K.: “Baby” as a term of endear-
ment is on our prohibited list.... Dolly Pot: Not a
color in it J.C.: “Beautiful women, handsome
men, glorious youth, soul-stirring music” —all packed
into atrocious free verse... .Isawin: Cannibalistic.
J.B. : A painter might do something with the
Doukhobor business; you can’t... .R.L.A.:—•
At Agua Caliente on a bright summer’s day,
Phar Lap the mighty stands stripped for the fray,
As a Triton looks calmly on minnows at play.
This sort of stuff still arrives by every post. And
it wasn’t summer, anyhow... . R.M.W.: Laborious
rhyme E. 8.: Wooden doggerel. .. .C.A.M.: Is
there to be no end to it?—
He donkey-licked the champions in every race he
run,
Excepting old Amounis, the darned old son of a gun!
At two miles or six furlongs, ’twas all the same
to him,
You only had to back him and then collect the tin.
M.B.: A glimmer of promise in it W.H.S.:
Pointless H.J.A.C.: Obvious ending 8.J.: First
effort went the way of the majority of first efforts.
C.F.: Not buying spooks.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.W.: Idea not strong enough J.V.L.: Not a
bit like Norman... .W.V.L.: Uneven... .R.L,: Stiff
and harsh F.E.C.: Careful drawings, handicapped
by tame jokes E.M.K.: You have a tenth-rate
“Comic Cuts’’ style M.F.M.D.: Unsuitable
W.T.: A smudgy effort W. 8.5.: Two misshapen
ladies and a musty joke... .A. 11.: Ruled against you.
T.B.: Didn’t stand the acid M.R.: Did you
think out the joke in a catacomb?... .E.J.: You’re
a better draughtsman than humorist... .N.M.C.;
Lines too thick II.B.: Do we care for the joke?
We venerate it G.D.: Peevish little jest, and
drawing fit for any coffee-stall wall A. 8.: Took a
header into the basket F.M.L.: Drawings show
too little experience, jests too much.... R.D.:
Brother to about half a million other drunk draw-
ings E.M.: Made your landlord laugh, did it?
You must be a good tenant... .C.E.V.; Looks as if
it were thrown together by a bush carpenter in
a rage P.A.: Insufficient skill as yet....P.W.: A
fashion-plate... .AjD. : Still no signs of breaking in.
T.H.: Smudgy work and weak puns F.H.:
None of them can go the distance T.P.: Jest
old, and we prefer the real Souter.


ē
ė
m : *
. m
■ ■ V - ■
m
,
M
I
w.
«
r
«
9
Wm
SJ
i*i
mm ■
/ i
m
■
■
tr
I
.s:
issn
Jtti a


The Bulletin
Vol. 53.—N0. 2727.
May 18, 1932.
ONE TWIST TOO MUCH.
MINISTERIAL CHORUS: “My Gawd, Jack, you’ve given the tail one twist too much!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4 s -; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s,
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for l/oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
“GIVE US A LEAD.”
“All Australia is looking for a lead. There are
more ideas inside The Bulletin office than any
other four corners in Australia. Can’t The Bul-
letin, then, give us what we are all waiting for?”
—A South Australian correspondent.
The Bulletin blushes at the compliment
but looks hard at the proposition. Very
early in the proceedings a man named
Niemeyer was brought to Australia to con-
sider our problems. He was a very distin-
guished financier with an international repu-
tation, one of the salaried directors of the
Bank of England, and chosen by that in-
stitution for our job because of his special
knowledge of just such problems as we
faced. With him were London’s most
eminent professor of banking and a brilliant
young Anglo-Australian student of econo-
mics; the team was one to command atten-
tion anywhere. They sat down to analyse
our position, and, having made a thorough
inquiry, spoke. The noise that followed
was deafening; Sir Otto Niemeyer could
not have been worse reviled or more shrilly
abused if he had been discovered looting
the Treasury. Yet he had done nothing
more than give Australia a lead—not a
very original lead, it is true; The Bulletin
had been saying the same things for a year;
some of them for 25 years. What Niemeyer
learned then others have learned since—•
Australia wants a lead, but a large number
of the people will only follow it if it
promises to cost them nothing. The struggle
of the past two years has been not so much
to get out of our troubles as to pass on the
payment for our mistakes to the other
fellow. And because that is getting us no-
where, we hear this cry, “Show us a miracle 1
Tell us how a nation may thrust its hand
in the fire and draw it out unburned!”
The simple fact is it cannot be done. The
world has piled folly upon folly, and we have
added some special samples of our own.
The world’s prodigious contribution was the
Great War, the nations piling up colossal
foreign debts, which they now find it quite
impossible to pay. Production, having been
tremendously accelerated, ought to have
been accompanied by a tremendous increase
of consumption. But international trade
was hamstrung; hence prices fell tragically.
One result was an instant struggle to main-
tain total returns by increased output, with
the further consequence of adding to the
world’s glut and the producer’s troubles.
For our own part, unmindful of the fact
that for many years past there had been a
furious boom in credit, with the inevitable
result of price inflation, we had been bor-
rowing prodigiously and of course getting
very poor value for our lOTJ’s. What is
now asked is that a miracle shall be pro-
duced which will restore conditions as
though we had never been guilty of any
of this folly.
All sorts of fancy measures have been
already suggested. Some we have tried,
from some we have recoiled. Theodore
was the first to suggest how a wonder might
be worked. He knew that in order to pay
our foreign debts we must export wool and
wheat and other staples and sell them in
competition with the world in the world’s
markets. Theodore knew that if an Aus-
tralian farmer has to sell his wheat for 25.,
and it costs him 3s. for labor, freight, in-
terest, fertiliser, etc., he must go out of
business; he knew, too, that if the wheat-
and the wool-farmer go out of business
Australia cannot pay its debts abroad.
Theodore was thus faced with two alterna-
tives: he could recommend a reduction of
all costs so that the farmer might sell for
25., or he could play tricks with the cur-
rency, so inflating it that a man would get
3s. where formerly he got only 2s. The
example of Germany was then too recent,
and Theodore’s inflationary proposals were
turned down. Then Lang came on the
scene. He found a third alternative. “Why
trouble to pay the foreigner a.t all?” he
asked. And Lang was far more logical than
many of his critics. There is no way by
which we can honestly pay our debts and
continue our so-called standard of living
and social services.
If Lang could swindle his creditors and
“get away with it,” we might be justified
in saying that he had given us a lead—not
one to be proud of, certainly, but still a
lead. But modem civilisation is a compli-
cated business. Lang swindled his foreign
creditors in order to keep up wage rates
and labor conditions a.t home. But to do
this merely put the N. S. Wales worker
out of a job, since Lang had no control
over wage rates and labor conditions out-
side N.S.W.; and a plan which could show
no better result than almost a third of the
population unemployed would not be toler-
able even if it were honest.
Meantime, though we professed to turn
down Theodore’s inflationary proposals with
scorn, we have been for 18 months testing
another which differs from the late Federal
Treasurer’s only in details. Ever since the
beginning of last year it has taken £125
or more of Australian money to buy £lOO
in England, and for six months past it has
taken over £l5O of Australian money to
buy 100 sovereigns. But, though certain of
the primary industries have benefited, it
has most obviously been at the expense of
the rest of the community. It would be a
real miracle if we could get our foreign
customers to pay us any more than market
price; actually they have paid us not a
farthing more, but a sort of bonus has been
handed to the exporters out of a fund
created by charging from 25 to over 50
per cent, on Government and private in-
terest and other payments overseas. This
plan has not, however, brought back pros-
perity nor is there any evidence that it
has done anything at all to reduce unem-
ployment. And for this very good reason:
the bonus is not a genuine one, inasmuch
as it is accompanied by increased costs.
Indeed, it is wholly based on increased
costs.
Among others things, Lang proposed a
“goods standard”; and that was not ridi-
culous, though quite outside our own reach.
Indeed, The Bulletin had long before sug-
gested that in floating renewal or other
loans in London it might be possible to
have the rate of interest governed by the
varying London market prices of our chief
staple exports. The whole world is seeking
more stable money; the present variations
of purchasing power are a monstrous
travesty of equity. But that is a matter
for international settlement; at the least,
for settlement within the Empire. As for
Australia, there is only one honest way out
and only one profitable way, honest or
otherwise. Nothing that we alone can do
can increase by one farthing the prices that
our foreign customers will pay us for our
goods. We can by various devices depreci-
ate our £ so that our producers will seem
to be getting more than overseas prices;
but if in fact they get more it can only
be at the expense of our own community.
As for our domestic trade, we are made
neither better nor worse off as a community
by any form of inflation. Certainly fixed
charges and payments are affected. Ger-
many practically wiped out all its mortgage
and other internal debts by carrying
inflation to the point at which the mark
became all-but valueless; but it left Ger-
many not a penny the richer.
The international stabilisation of money,
with a lower purchasing power than it has
at present, would be the most complete
solution of our problems. Internal infla-
tion would remove some of our difficulties;
but it is dangerous, would result in many
injustices, and the good it could do can be
achieved by other means. With certain
qualifications a right beginning was made
with the 224 per cent, reduction of interest
on public loans. But the burden of private
debt has not been so satisfactorily dealt
with; and if inflation is to be avoided more
will have to be done in this matter. The
plain fact is that the £ lias enormously
increased in purchasing power, whether that
£ is represented by wages or salaries or
dividends or interest, and no injustice is
done by reducing the amount to be paid;
the arguments against interference fall
dead in the face of our national necessities.
Most of the opposition to wage reductions
is based upon the “inequalities of sacrifice.”
There are inequalities, and if inflation is
fastened upon us in some form, it will be
chiefly due to our failure to make the reduc-
tion of charges and burdens as universal as
it ought to be, and must be if we are to
come through without further great distress.
EMPTY LANDS AND CROWDED
STREETS.
In 1881 Sydney had 224,939 people, and
Melbourne 282,947; of the whole population
29.39 per cent, was metropolitan in N. S.
Wales and 32.81 per cent, in Victoria. Even
at that day the urban population was re-
garded as far too great: scarcely another
country in the world could show such high
figures. Yet, instead of improving, our
record has grown steadily worse, and in
1921, when a census was taken, no less than
42.8 per cent, of the population lived within
the metropolitan area in N. S. Wales, 50.05
per cent, in Victoria, and an appalling 51.57
per cent, in S. Australia. There is no Euro-
pean country with even 30 p.c. of its popu-
lation crowded into one city. Vienna holds
27 per cent, of the Austrian people; Copen-
hagen, 21 p.c. of the Danish; no other
European figures approach these. Amster-
dam, Brussels, Paris, Berlin, Rome—not one
of these capitals includes so much as 10
per cent, of the nation.
Yet, instead of having an urban popula-
tion far greater than the average, Australia
ought to have an overwhelming rural popu-
lation. It is still essentially a primary pro-
ducer. Of its total production in the 10
years to 1930 no less than 66.84 per cent,
came from the primary industries; of its
exports only 3.57 per cent, were manufac-
tured goods.
It is quite true that a country may have
a comparatively small proportion of its
people living within its capital and yet have
also a very small rural population. Every-
thing depends, of course, upon the number
of its provincial cities and towns. It is
here that Australia fails so shockingly. Be-
cause of our misdeeds, the result of not
being warned by what the figures showed
us, we declared we could not afford a
census in 1931. At the end of the previous
triennium, however, Australia’s provincial
urban population—that is to say, the popu-
lation of all towns outside the capitals—
was only 19.09 p.c. of the entire population:
Metropolitan .. .. 2,239,079 43.01 p.c.
Provincial urban . . . . 1,037,468 19.09 ~
Rural 2,030,422 37.35 „
Migratory .. . . . . 29,765 0.55 „
The N. S. Wales “country town” figures
are to some extent saved by Newcastle and
Broken Hill, those of Tasmania bj'' Laun-
ceston. But generally the statistics can only
be described as ghastly. Of incorporated
areas as at Dec., 1930, N. S. Wales had
only nine with more than 10,000 people;
and of these, apart from Newcastle and
Broken Hill, only one had more than 15,000
(Sydney and suburbs had 1,238,600). Vic-
toria had Geelong, Ballarat and Bendigo to
its credit; apart from these there was not
one with 10,000 people (Melbourne and
suburbs held 1,014,600). In S. Australia,
always the most shocking example of all,.
Adelaide and suburbs held 324,420 people;
the State has not a single other town with
10,000. Nor has Westralia outside Perth
(204,780) unless Kalgoorlie and Boulder are
amalgamated.
In England and Wales the rural popula-
tion had diminished from 23.0 per cent, in
1901 to 20.7 per cent, at the 1921 census;
yet the population of London is only 11.01
per cent, of the total. In other
words, 68.29 per cent, of the population of
England and Wales lives in provincial cities
and towns as against 19.09 per cent, in
Australia and 8.41 per cent, in S. Australia.
In the United States in 1930 there were
37 cities with more than a quarter of a
million people, 93 with more than 100,000,
and 376 with more than 25,000. Canada,
with a 1921 census total of 8,788,483 people
(at the end of 1930 they were estimated at
9,934,500), had a rural population of
4,436,361, equal to 50.5 per cent, of the
whole. But, though Canada’s aggregate
figures are thus not much better than our
own, at least Canada can show only one
city w'ith more than a million people, while
it has seven others with upwards of 100,000
and 10 more past the 40,000 mark. In
France in 1826 the rural population was
20.,759,131 and the urban 19,984,766 —50.9 per
cent, in the country and 49.1 per cent, in
the towns. But of that 49.1 per cent, of
town population only 7.05 per cent, lived in
Paris, whereas more than 50 per cent, of the
population of Australia lives inside its met-
ropolitan boundaries. With a population
of 40,743,000 in 1926, France had one city
with more than a million people, 16 with
more than 100,000, 36 others with more
than 50,000. With a population of
6,442,000 (in 1930), Australia has two cities
with more than a million, four others with
more than 100,000 and only one other with
more than 50,000.
The result of the concentration of people
in one great town in each State is inevit-
ably to pile up costs of marketing and dis-
tribution. The French farmer, cultivating
his land in a country with a total area of
212,659 square miles as compared with
309,432 square miles in N. S. Wales, has 53
cities and towns with over 50,000 people in
which to find a market; the N. S. Wales
farmer has only two. The French farmer
has a great centre with 50,000 people or
more to every 4012 square miles; the N. S.
Wales farmer has one to every 154,716
square miles; and whereas the French
towns are dotted all over the country, those
of Australia with only two or three excep-
tions are perched on the rim of the conti-
nent.
Australia ought to be one of the cheapest
places in the world to live and work in.
We produce almost all our own food and
clothing, and our climate makes both pro-
duction and harvesting cheap—there is no
country in the world where wheat especially
can be harvested for so little money. But
our marketing and distribution costs are
suicidal; and the maldistribution of our
population is very largely responsible for
it. Every possible effort ought to be made
to repair this error; and no plan seems
more likely to do it than the subdivision of
the unwieldy States. Meantime something
might be done by the cultivation of civic
pride in country towns. For the most part
—outside Victoria especially—these are
drab, unprogressive and unattractive; it is
not to be wondered at that they so largely
fail to hold the more energetic of the young
people who grow up in them.
We are paying the penalty for maldistri-
bution of population in something beside
excessive costs; we are paying for it also in
industrial unrest and social disorder. It is
only in the great town and in the small
town with the absentee boss that the class
war” has a hope; in the small town, with
the boss living in the next street and taking
off his coat to his job, it is little use getting
on a soapbox and telling the world that
he is a blood-sucking octopus who has no
rightful place in the scheme of things.
There no doubt are times when Parlia-
mentary Country parties seem to fight too
hard for their own hand. But their provo-
cation is very great; while the country has
always had abundant lip-service from every
other party, the great cities have grown
greater and their influence more over-
powering. When the Country parties claim
that in fighting hard for their own hand
they are really fighting for the nation, the
facts and the figures confirm them.
THE GARDEN AFFAIR.
It now seems to have been unfortunate for
certain of the New Guardsmen concerned in
the raid on Garden’s house at Maroubra
that they should have been advised to plead
guilty straightway and throw themselves
on the mercy of the Court. Certainly it
looked a bad business —one of those blun-
ders that are worse than crimes—though the
complainant was not hurt, and is no para-
gon of good citizenship, being, qn the con-
trary, notorious for his advocacy of Red
revolution and repudiation, and for his con-
nection with lawless strikes marked by
violence. But an adjournment for even a
week would have given time for certain
queer features of the case to be examined
and for pertinent records to be ransacked.
And an adjournment for a week could
surely have been got.
Eight men figured in the unauthorised
visit, arriving in two cars; and seven got
away, apparently without the slightest diffi-
culty. The eighth remained on the pre-
mises, which is queer, even though it is
stated that he was bitten by the household
dog. Queer also is the consideration with
which he was treated by the victim of the
assault. “I gave him a drink of water,”
said that gentleman (“Labor Daily” re-
port) ; “then we were afraid the dog-bite
might do some damage to his hand, and
we bathed it with hot water.” Next,
because he “was not sure how to get home,
witness asked his son [who had also been
assaulted] to drive him home in witness’s
car.” No giving the fellow a hiding and
detaining him till the police came, or any-
thing like that!
During the lawless timber strike, of which
this Garden was a director, “men working
under the terms of the award” were sav-
agely maltreated by the basher gang “organ-
ised and financed by a certain section at
the Sydney Trades Hall.” According to
Arthur Griffith, a Labor Minister for six
years and a man with a reputation for
accuracy of statement, these ruffians were
instructed “to attack workers only when
five or six to one, and kick them on the
face so that they would be marked men
for life. It was part of the plan to pre-
pare beforehand false but circumstantial
evidence to support alibis. In no single
instance were any of the faked witnesses
tried for perjury”; moreover, “when the
thugs were caught red-handed (or red-
footed), timid magistrates let them off with
a small fine or a few weeks’ imprisonment.”
Strange what differences time and circum-
stances make! Here we see a Sydney
magistrate grown severe (“three months
without the option”) and a Sydney strike-
leader soft-hearted. His sons are assaulted,
his wife and daughter faint, he himself is
suffering from shock, plus “slight contusion
of the underlying tissues at the back of the
scalp,” yet he treats this midnight marauder
as a benevolent uncle might treat a way-
ward nephew. W onderful!
Overcome by the magnanimity of the
basher-gang’s idol, the eighth man Tells All.
He belongs to the Paddington “locality”
of the New Guard. An unsigned note
written in pencil on a bit of foolscap
paper is shoved under his door; it instructs
him to meet a car in a certain place. He
knows it is from the New Guard, because
he has received similar messages before; he
tears it up and throws it away and goes
forth on the adventure which brings him
under the benign influence of St. Jock. He
had a black gown with a hooded mask, now
in the possession of the police; about 52
other New Guardsmen had been supplied
with black gowns; they constituted “the
Fascists’ Legion of the New Guard.” The
executive of the New Guard denies that it
has any such “Legion,” that it issued any
such clothing, that it gave any instructions
whatever, in person or by deputy, for the
Garden raid. The “Labor Daily” believes
every word of the Eighth Man’s story. It
knows all about the Black Shirts or Black
Hoods—did it not have a horrible experi-
ence with them itself just before the 1925
Commonwealth election? On that occasion
Fascists armed with “new pick-handles”
stormed into the office when most of the
staff were out and tried to assassinate the
editor, whose articles were bringing the
Bruee-Page Government down. A member
of the staff who was not in the joke came
upon them when their new pick-handles
were whistling about the editor’s unbloodied
head, and they bolted for their lives.
Mr. A. C. Willis, then manager of the
paper and later Lang’s Agent-General
(in which capacity he discovered the
House of Commons plot to throw the
Boss off the Bridge), was greatly annoyed.
Not so Mr. C. C. Lazzarini, the Colonial
Secretary, who burst out laughing when
asked by a member of the Opposition if
his police were on the trail of the murder-
ous miscreants, and returned a facetious
answer which elicited a general grin! Not
yet were Ministers and members of the


Caucus cringing serfs of Lang, nor did police
officers report to the “Labor Daily and
take instructions from the Trades Hall.
Weaver, the deputy leader of the U.A.P.,
now comes into the picture. On a motion
for adjournment he asserted that the
descent on Garden’s house was arranged by
an agent-provocateur, paid out of State
funds, who also organised the so-called
Fascist Legion; that Garden knew what
was coming, and that the names of the
men who were to be led into the trap were
communicated to the police two days before
it was sprung. In short, he charged con-
spiracy, and demanded a Royal Commis-
sion to sift the facts. The demand was
refused with the customary jeers and
insults; Lamaro, then Attorney-General, sug-
gested that 25 per cent, of the New Guards-
men were criminals. But the clumsy crowd
was soon to learn that the stifling of inquiry
which had left the tin-hare and bread-con-
tract scandals half-told tales could not be
repeated here. The blundering Beasley
alleged in the House of Reps, that the New
Guard and officers of the Defence Depart-
ment were plotting to overthrow “the con-
stitutional Government of N. S. Wales.”
The Prime Minister promptly replied that
this charge and those made by Weaver
would be immediately referred to a Royal
Commissioner, probably a High Court
Judge. In a miserable effort to save face,
the Lang Government announced that, at
the instance of the police, it proposed to
ask a Sydney magistrate to conduct the
inquiry which it had insolently refused, after
the Minister controlling the Police Depart-
ment had declared that there was “not the
shadow of a case.” It is improbable that
this stunt will be proceeded with. It is,
however, most necessary that there should
be a searching inquiry, not only into the
Garden affair, but also into the proceedings
of the basher gang and into the “Fascist
outrage” on the editor of the “Labor Daily.”
And it ought to be carried through with the
utmost possible expedition.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Great Smoke Screen.
The lunatic business which had been going
on in N. S. Wales for a month—and would
still have been going on had not Governor
Game been brought to another point of
view—was mere window-dressing for a
general election. The Great War taught
the world the value of a Hymn of Hate,
and nobody learned the lesson better than
Lang and his associates. Their whole pur-
pose was to go to the country, not on their
own merits, but on what they could make
the people believe were the demerits of others.
If they could get enough people singing
enough hymns of hate, they knew that
reason would be blinded, and that the elec-
tion would not be decided on past per-
formances or on policies for the future.
The great central fact which Lang, and
his associates must obscure is that they are
working for what is euphemistically called
socialisation. In plain English, the purpose
behind it all is the establishment of a
soviet; and, as Lang tdld his hearers at
the last Eight-hour dinner, “the revolution
is on.” There were doubts about the suc-
cess of a revolution in the Russian manner;
and, anyhow, that was not necessary. Here
was a democracy with universal suffrage.
Here was a land where it might be possible
to use or misuse the regular machinery of
government to secure exactly the same
results as it needed bloodshed to produce
in other countries. The time was well
chosen; the people in charge of this busi-
ness are not fools—they are diabolically
clever and cunning. A majority was got
in the Assembly by false pretences: not a
word was said about socialisation except
to denounce it. Within three months, how-
ever, the first shot was fired. Lang pro-
duced his plan of repudiation. That was
the first attack on the “tall poppies.” He
then put the Governor to a test : he de-
faulted on his payment of interest to Brit-
ish creditors while paying a foreign credi-
tor. Nothing happened: if the Governor
even protested, no record of it has ever
been published. Thus encouraged, a further
series of Bolshevistic attacks on the “tall
poppies” was made. But the Legislative
Council stood in the way. That obstruc-
tion had to be got rid of. Twenty-five
new members from that group in the Trades
Hall which could be trusted to do the right
thing—one of them a man with a criminal
record —were appointed to the Council.
Obstruction from that quarter now became
more difficult; a series of soviet measures
was successfully put through, heads of the
railway and other great departments who
could not be trusted to push the revolution
further on were got rid of, and a dozen
boards and commissions were set up to
sovietise as many industries.
Meantime every possible effort was made
to bribe enough electors to make sure of
the next general election—the next great
step in the conspiracy. Two only of the
methods need now be recalled. Careless of
the ruinous effect upon the industries of the
country, it was by a characteristic piece of
trickery made impossible to reduce the
State basic w r age despite a fall in the cost of
living. And money got by defrauding credi-
tors —the blood-sucking capitalists who had
a hymn of hate all to themselves —was spent
by the million in doles and “social ser-
vices.”
All the lunatic business of the last month
merely carried on the work which had been
in progress since the beginning of 1931.
The real question before N. S. Wales is
not whether Bruce or anybody else wants
to reduce wages, not whether the Judges of
the High Court are rogues and cheats, not
whether it is right to defraud our creditors
in order to pay doles and widows’ pensions
—all these questions are merely part of
a great smoke-screen behind which the
agents of a soviet republic are at work. The
real question is whether we are willing to
set up a Communist State in N. S. Wales,
wiping out all private property, including
Savings Bank deposits and insurance poli-
cies and titles to workers’ homes, destroying
democracy and all our self-governing insti-
tutions, and inevitably cutting ourselves
adrift from the Commonwealth and the
British Empire in the process.
*
Victoria Passes Sentence.
In ignominious surrender to the A.L.P.
bosses, Mr. Acting-Premier Tunnecliffe
weakened on a vital clause of the Premiers’
plan, to which his Government was com-
mitted, and flirted with the Lang plan.
Two Ministers, Messrs. Jones and Kieman,
forthwith resigned. Mr. Hogan, the absent
Premier, commended their devotion to prin-
ciple and loyalty to his leadership, and
protested his own devotion to the Premiers’
plan, but did not follow their example. On
the contrary, he urged Ministers Bailey
and Williams, who were also for the plan,
to remain in the Cabinet, which thus pre-
sented a perfect picture of a house divided
against itself. Mr. Blackburn, the most
prominent Labor Parliamentarian outside
this extraordinary Cabinet, said in an elec-
tion address: “I take off my hat to Mr.
Lang.” Then the news came from Sydney
that the object of this gentleman’s adora-
tion, to further his Government’s rebellion
against the Commonwealth, had introduced
a 10 p.c. tax on mortgages, applicable to
the A.M.P., the Sydney University and
the McCaughey bequest to the children of
dead soldiers and sailors, but not to his
own 5 p.c. mortgage on the “Labor Daily”;
and finally that the rebel Government had
been sent about its business.
Victoria’s amazing collection of Planners,
anti-Planners and admirers of Mr. Lang,
still posing as a party, came up for judg-
ment on Saturday. There were 30 of them
in the last Assembly, and they generally had
the support of three Independents, giving
them a major'!/ of two on the floor of the
House. With two or three seats still in
doubt, the 33 have been reduced to 19 at
most, only 15 of whom are anti-Planners.
Messrs. Tunnecliffe and Hogan were re-
turned unopposed, and Messrs. Cain and
Lemmon are the only other Ministers who
are sure to be in the next House. Attorney-
General Slater is behind in Dundas, Minis-
ter Bailey in Warrnambool, Assistant
Minister Webber in Heidelberg and Assist-
tant Minister Pollard in Bulla-Dalhousie;
and the party has definitely lost Albert
Park, Dandenong, Essendon, Oakleigh,
Prahran, Ballarat, Castlemaine-Kyneton,
Geelong and Grant—in all of which it had
good majorities at the last election. A
severe sentence —none severer has ever been
pronounced on a Vic. Ministerial party—but
it was thoroughly deserved. Nor could Labor
and “Age” support save Mr. Burnett Gray
in St. Hilda, while Ouyen has declared for
a straightout Country-party man in pre-
ference to Mr. Glowrey, who refused to
come in when the two agrarian groups
amalgamated.
Nearly all the gains were made by the
U.A.P. That party may be able to govern
on its own account; certainly Mr. Hogan
will be succeeded as Premier by Dr. Argyle.
Nevertheless Victoria, while emphatically
rejecting the A.L.P. crowd and registering
its support for the Premiers’ plan, has
declared in favor of no particular party.
It obviously wants a national Government,
and a national Government it should get.
And in that Government a place should
be found for Mr. Jones, who, when the acid
was put on him, showed honesty and
courage, and who will serve Dr. Argyle as
faithfully as he did Mr. Hogan, and will
represent the wage-earners just as worthily.
The Future in N. S. Wales.
There is no reason why Stevens should
paint a drab picture of the future to the
electors of N. S. Wales. Of course, world
conditions are shockingly bad, and we
cannot escape some of the consequences;
but there is a great deal on the other side
of the ledger. We have had two extra-
good seasons, and a third seems highly
probable. We are not in the position of
those unfortunate countries which cannot
find a market for their goods at any price;
our staples all have a market of some sort,
and wool is in a stronger position than any
other great world product; while for our
manufactures we have the home market
which for so many years we presented to
the foreigner. We are not going to get
back to the old conditions; they were most
unhealthy boom conditions, based on vast
foreign borrowing and wasteful spending,
and were bound to crash. But wise govern-
ment and confidence and a few fair years
can bring us back more real prosperity
than we ever had. The swiftness of the
recovery of this country under favorable
conditions is in sober truth one of the
marvels of the world. It is one of the few
things about, us that old-world bankers like
Sir Otto Niemeyer find it very hard to
understand.
There has been too great a disposition
in the past to talk about the need for
sacrifices. The purpose of the new State
Government should be—must be to put
an end as speedily as possible to some of
the terrible sacrifices which tens of thou-
sands of the people are making; and that
is still true even though in the process
something more must be asked of other
members of the community. But even as
to these others, there are sacrifices and
sacrifices. Many a man who has had to
pay one-quarter of his income would gladly
pay one-third of it if he could only win
back reasonable prosperity. The burdens
have been so crushing during the past two
years because the earnings have been so
small, with not a gleam of hope that they
would be better.
+
A Chapter of Queensland History.
In 1914 Queensland was paying in taxes an
average of £1 6s. lid. per head. In the fol-
lowing year Labor came into power, with
J. T. Ryan as Premier and Theodore as
Treasurer. Queensland taxation was then
2d. per head below the Australian aver-
age. After five years of Labor rule it was
£1 12s. 3d. per head above that average.
The story has been told that the rapid in-
crease was due to circumstances over which
the State had no control. Actually, how-
ever, we find that while the taxation of
N. S. Wales, for example, was moving from
£1 11s. Bd. in 1915 to £2 2s. 4d. in 1919,
that of its neighbor Queensland went from
£1 Bs. 2d. to £3 19s. lOd. While 33 per
cent, was added to the N. S. Wales taxa-
tion, 183 p.c. was added to that of Queens-
land.
There might not have been any objec-
tion to that if taxes had been increased in
order to avoid a deeper plunge into debt.
But actually Queensland’s debt grew from
56 millions in 1915 to 65 millions in 1919;
while N. S. Wales added only £6 12s. 2d.
per head to its debt, Queensland, though it
almost trebled its taxation, found it neces-
sary to add £9 10s. lOd. per head.
At that stage there were tens of thou-
sands in Queensland who had become thor-
oughly alarmed by the financial drift. They
were to learn, however, that the worse a
Government may be, the tighter its hold
can be upon the constituencies —for a time,
at any rate. In 1915 in the Queensland rail-
ways the average staff employed was 10,689;
by 1926 it had reached 22,036. In 1914-15
the average expenses per train mile run
were 4s. o.oBd. By 1927 they were 10s. 10.93 d.
The inevitable happened. In 1915, after
paying interest, working expenses and all
other charges, the railways of Queensland
showed a profit of £118,128: they were by
far the most remunerative State railway
service in Australia. After four years of
Labor rule the same service showed a loss
of £1,323,252 for the 12 months, and it
reached the appalling figure of £1,890,362 in
1927. The service from being the most
remunerative had become by far the most
unremunerative in Australia.
As we have seen, State taxation in
Queensland amounted to £1 Bs. 2d. per head
when the Labor Government took office.
After 14 years of Labor rule the taxation
reached £5 19s. 3d. per head. Before Labor
got control in Queensland State taxation
was below the Australian average. After
14 years of Labor rule it was 15s. 9d. per
head above the average. Meantime the
public debt had gone from £B2 9s. 2d. to
£122 ss. sd. per head.
Labor ideals are or were almost perfect.
Unhappily the movement fell into the hands
of place-hunters and time-servers whose
chief and sometimes only thought was votes.
Instead of making successes of those great
services from which so much had been
expected, they have prostituted them in
order to purchase place and pay and power.
Should any man among them show signs
of rebellion —should he seek to put the
ideals of the party before the purchase of
office—he is promptly “disciplined.” It
would be absurd, of course, to say that
other parties have not been tarred with the
same brush. For 20 years The Bulletin
struggled almost single-handed against
the demoralisation of Australian public life,
against the corruption of politics, against
the undermining of honest democracy. In
one section there is at last a recognition—
in part, at least —of the evil that has been
done, and the sacrifices that must be made
to atone for it. But those who still claim
the right to speak for Labor refuse to leave
the fleshpots; they insist upon continuing
the political debauch. This makes Forgan
Smith and his impenitents impossible in
Queensland. We have seen what they did
before in 14 years. They ask Queensland
to put them in a position merely to resume
where they left off. The more sincerely
devoted a man is to Labor ideals, the more
determined he ought to be to save them
froip this further degradation.
♦
The Picturesque Adventurer.
The “New Statesman” (London) is pro-
Soviet and anti-capitalist on suave and
highbrow lines. When Ivar Kreuger suicided
it referred to a mysterious syndicate
which was alleged to have ruined him, and
hinted that it was “composed of American
and French gamblers of Hebrew origin.”
“Mr. Kreuger was a man of enlightened prin-
ciples whose ideas of financial service were far
in advance of the world of bankers in which he
had to move.
“It was his ambition to use the Kreuger and
Toll Company ‘to improve and supplement the
present inadequate machinery for international
financing.’ Perhaps he over-reached himself. At
any rate, he was an easy prey for the unscrupu-
lous ‘bear’ operator even before he became the
victim of the hard-headed banker.”
Other papers, such as the London “Herald”
and the Paris “L’CEuvre,” also held Kreuger
up as a victim of capitalist greed and villainy
as personified by the trading banks. Later
it turned out that the capitalists had had
nothing to do with his downfall; that he
had forged securities for millions sterling
and been bowled out; and that his ramp
(described as “the biggest swindle in the
history of Europe”) had driven tens of
thousands of small investors on to the
streets in a state of destitution.
So-called democratic papers are doing the
democracy bad turns on similar lines all
over the world. They stand behind any
adventurer, financial or political, who claims
to have “enlightened principles,” and proves
it by bellowing rubbish about the blood-
sucking octopuses. And the next thing the
masses find is that tens of thousands of
proletarians have lost their savings and
hundreds of thousands their jobs, while
their idolised defender has either cut his
throat or retired—from business or politics,
as the case may be—on his savings.
+
A True Public Servant.
The finest example of moral courage seen
during the crisis that Lang brought on was
given by a public servant, Mr. R. H. Beards-
more, chief accountant in the N.S.W. Lands
Department, whose name will shine brightly
when the history of these stormy times is
written.
While other departmental heads and sub-
heads trembled and made preparations for
meekly obeying the mob Government’s
instructions that they should break the
law of Australia in the rottenest of causes
—that of State dishonesty—Mr. Beards-
more ordered his subordinates to pay money
due under the law to the Commonwealth into
the nation’s bank. He knew that he would
be immediately relieved of his duties —as
he was, by order of the Minister, Tully—
knew that, if the mob Government re-
mained in office, he would lose his job and
might be deprived of his superannuation
rights; but this loyal son of Australia did
not falter.
The action of a right-minded and resolute
man in a crisis must influence the course of
events. Probably the news of his stand had
its effect in bringing Sir Philip Game to
the frame of mind in which he wrote to the
mob Premier that “it is impossible for me
to put the Crown in the position of being
a party to illegal action.” Whether that
was so or not, certainly by following the
path of duty in scorn of consequences, Mr.
Beardsmore has done infinitely more for
the N. S. Wales public service than ail
the frothy officials of service unions who
have been making insolent demands upon
the Commonwealth Government.
«
The Power of Impeachment.
“Coif” considers certain possibilities:—
“Ruslex” (B. 11/5/’32) doubts whether impeach-
ment of political criminals who cannot be reached
by ordinary criminal law is possible. He says that
in the Privy Council case of Theodore v. Mrs.
Duncan, an appeal by the Queensland Government
from the High Court of Australia, Lord Haldane
asked counsel for the appellant if the Constitution
of Queensland included the power to impeach Minis-
ters. Sir John Simon replied that in his opinion
it did not, and quoted cases in support, and that
was as far as that matter got. But of course a
question by a Judge and the ex parte statement
of counsel in reply does not constitute a leading
case in law.
“The gist of quoted decisions,” says “Ruslex,”
is that the law and custom of Parliament “applies
exclusively to the House of Lords and the House of
Commons, and is not conferred upon a supreme
Legislative Assembly of a colony by the introduction
to that colony of the common law of England.”
But a constituent State under Federation is in a
different category from a colony; and in any case
“Ruslex” admits that any State can arm itself
with the power of impeachment by the necessary
legislation. Section 49 of our Constitution Act
lays down that “the powers and immunities of the
Senate and of the House of Representatives shall
be such as are declared by Parliament, and until
declared shall be those of the Commons House of
Parliament of the United Kingdom.” Incidentally,
subsection 2 of Section 44 debars anyone from being
chosen or sitting as a member of either House of
the Parliament who “is attainted of treason”
This at least recognises the continued existence of
attainder, just as does the British Act passed as
late as 1870, which modified some of the harsher
provisions of the law. In any case, the vecent
Statute of Westminster, by conferring practically
independent sovereign powers and the right of self-
determination on the Dominions, has cleared the
issue as far as the Federal Parliament is concerned.
“Ruslex” holds that Mr. Lang is amenable for
his political performances to ordinary criminal pro-
cess. If “Ruslex” can suggest any way of bringing
the dismissed N. S. Wales Premier to account for
his political malpractices —save, perhaps, in a com-
paratively mild fashion under recent special Federal
legislation—the community will be glad to hear of it.
Finally, “Ruslex” warns us of establishing a
dangerous precedent: “The party after that which
attainted Mr. Lang might legislate Mr. Stevens’s
head off.” But nothing can happen in either case
without definite charges being made and proved
with the aid of witnesses in what amounts to open
court. And if Mr. Stevens were found guilty of the
same political misdeeds as Mr. Lang he would
equally deserve to lose his political head.
+
Thanks.
In three days a hundred or more messages
of congratulation have come to The
Bulletin on the dismissal of Lang and the
part the paper is very generously credited
with having played in bringing it about.
The Bulletin can say no more and in
courtesy it can say no less than that it very
highly values these messages and is grateful
for them.


m
H
Said the doctor...
‘change to
CRAVEN “A’
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6. 50 in flat tins, 3/9. 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
POLITICAL
POINTS
Well, anyhow, The Bulletin can say
this for Mr. Lang—nobody else has ever
done so much for its anti-borrowing policy.
N.S.W. Governor Game hasn’t gone short
of advice during the past 18 months. Not all
the letters addressed to him reached him, but
some that did helped to make him the very
uneasy man he has been for months past.
In particular, there was a letter from a very
learned K.C., who merely asked his Excel-
lency, before he quite made up his mind that
it was always his duty to do what his
Ministers advised, to consider what he would
do if his Ministers advised him to run up
the Red Flag over Government House.
Two men owned neighboring N.S.W. farms
which they sold for the same amount. One
lias lashed the purchaser, keeping him close
up to the collar, squeezing every penny out
of him even though his family went notori-
ously short, and getting the balance owing
him down to £l2OO. The other, having
bowels of compassion, was lenient, let his
man’s family have enough to live on, and
his purchaser still owes £lB5O. Under the
law which Lang tried to fasten on the com-
munity, the bowelless person would pay
£120; the compassionate man would be re-
warded Avitli a bill for £lB5.
Vic. Labor has suffered the worst setback
it has experienced since it became a direct
Opposition in 1904. It had 30 members in
the last Assembly ; it will have only 17 or
18 in the next. The U.A.P. captured a
dozen seats from it, and those of Burnett Gray
(St. Kilda) and Downward (Mornington).
MRS. VIC LABOR: “You dirty young brats,
you’ve all been playing in the gutter.
I’m going to give every one of you a
scrubbing.”
Groves regained his old electorate (Dande-
nong) ; the newcomers to Parliament are
Drew, Dillon, Zwar, Smith, Ellis, Michaelis,
Hollway, White, Shields, Austin, Holden,
Fairbairn, Kirton (U.A.P.) and Bassau
(Cocky). Argyle will lead the new Govern-
ment.
On May 11 Lang moved a resolution in
favor of a capital levy—a new thing in
Australian taxation, involving tremendous
possibilities, and demanding the most careful
consideration. Lang was followed by
Stevens and one or two other speakers.
Then: —
The closure was applied, and the Premier’s reso-
lution agreed to. A bill founded upon the resolution
was then taken to the second reading without a
division. In committee, Mr. L. O. Martin rose to
speak on clause 4, and the Minister for Labor (Mr.
Baddeley) moved the closure. The guillotine auto-
matically came into operation. The bill was taken
through the remaining stages without division and
forwarded to the Legislative Council.
And only a lucky chance stopped it from
being put through all stages there without
discussion. That was what Parliamentary
discussion was reduced to under the Lang
blight.
Lang created a precedent when introduc-
ing his Robbery of Mortgagees Bill —he
praised a man who has denounced him. After
throwing mud at the High Court Judges
who delivered the “Lang is Wrong” decision
on the Financial Agreements Enforcement
Bill he referred to Evatt, J., and the Chief
Justice as “two very eminent lawyers and
eminent gentlemen.” It was Dr. Evatt, then
member for Balmain, who described Lang
as “the biggest crook in the movement.”
Booze played its part in the carrying of
Lang’s Robbery of Mortgagees Bill. Cer-
tain Leg. Councillors who voted for the
evil thing were as full as an egg; one
reeled in with a bottle of rum sticking out
of his pocket. On the contrary, ex-Speaker
Simon Hickey, who bravely crossed the floor,
was stone sober. He always is, nor does
he ever use foul language (the language
heard about the premises while the plunder-
bill was going through got right down to the
gutter), but sobriety and a clean tongue will
not save him. fie is to be expelled the party
or push.
So far the only definite election policy
followed by the crowd opposed to the Gov-
ernment of Queensland is organised disorder
at meetings of Ministerial candidates. This
has been on a scale never before seen in
Queensland. At Toowoomba and Brisbane
the Premier had to face a howling contin-
gent, all placed together and carefully drilled.
A still worse exhibition was staged at Mrs.
Longman’s opening meeting, though the Bul-
imba lady has worked hard for women
and children, and has been an excellent mem-
ber generally. _ As was the case with the
Premier’s meetings, however, the opposition
was quelled. The significance of this hooli-
ganism is that Labor-socialism is by no
means as sure of victory as it professes to be.
The remnant of the Hogan Ministry
operating between the dissolution and the
general election generously agreed to pay
£SOOO to Wonthaggi miners for coal alleged
to have been underweighed. The Railway
Commissioners, who control the State mine,
flatly refused to pay, saying that the extra
weight had been added to the coal by rain
and dew. The new Government will not
distribute the largesse.
Perth’s secessionists supported Laborite
Alick Clydesdale against Mayor Lathlain for
the Met.-Suburban Province seat in the Leg.
Council, and helped to put him in. The joke
is that Clydesdale is a unificationist. Still,
he promised to support a secesh referendum,
so his unificationism was dismissed as a
trifle.
Trade-unions were directly exempted from
Lang’s 10 p.c. capital levy on mortgages; so,
indirectly, were rich politicians who lend
Labor newspapers large amounts at 5 p.c.
Seizure of the property was to be the penalty
for non-payment within 14 days, unless the
period should be extended as an act of grace,
and offences against the Act not expressly
prescribed were to be punishable with a fine
of £lOOO or three years’ imprisonment. The
Lyons bill designed to block this buslirang-
ing Was far and away the most comprehen-
sive measure of its kind ever passed in the
Commonwealth ; in effect it trained a whole
battery of constitutional guns on the mob
Government. All the same it was unneces-
sary. The same result could have been
arrived at by proclaiming the plunder-tax
under the Financial Agreements Enforce-
ments Act and giving mortgagees a hundred
years to pay.
Campaigning in North Queensland, Premier
Moore told a story strangely reminiscent of
N.S.W. happenings in the not-remote past,
yet with a certain difference. Soon after he
took office, tenders were invited for something,
and one £7O less than another was accepted.
An indignant gentleman called and asked
why his tender, the larger, had not been the
wanner. The reply was that it was too high.
He pointed out with a pitying smile that the
extra money included commission. “For
whom?” he was asked. “For you, of course,”
he replied. The new Premier still persisted
that he didn’t savvy, whereupon the visitor
seized his hat. “What’s the use of talking
to a d —d fool?” he hissed before he slammed
the door.
Hogan cut a hardly more inspiring figure
than Tunnecliffe in the Vic. elections. He
clung to the Premiership while the man
he had left in charge turned dog on him and
proceeded to appeal to the country, in the
name of the Government and the party, on a
policy which was in a vital respect a negation
of his absent leader’s. Hogan didn’t demand
Tunnecliffe’s resignation, which would have
been the logical thing to do, and seek to
reform by long-distance telephone a Cabinet
loyal to the Premiers’ plan. If that course
seemed too complicated, he himself might
have resigned, but he didn’t do that, either.
He just hung on while two Ministers who
were loyal to him left the Cabinet; and
when two more proposed to take the same
straightforward course he begged them not
to. Scullin would have behaved just like
that; but Hogan was thought to be a strong
man.
Laidlaw, C.S.M., who was to have conducted
Lang’s inquiry into the Garden affair, had
to deal the other day with a person, repre-
sented as a man of means, who was behind
with his rent. “You agreed to pay a pound
a week,” he said indignantly, “and then
you tried to repudiate. You are an old
scaler and repudiationist.” Wasn’t it Mr.
Laidlaw who refused to allow a witness to
say anything to the detriment of the four-
million-pound repudiationist. Lang?
There are about 10,000 superfluous em-
ployees on the N.S.W. State railways, and as
they are nearly all males with votes and con-
siderable influence over females with votes, it
is very difficult for any honest Government
to attempt getting rid of them without sign-
ing its own death-warrant. The most pro-
mising way is to provide employment in other
lines of industry. There is still an opening
for the products of secondary industries, of
which there is a deficiency instead of a sur-
plus. N. S. Wales has more railway em-
ployees than Victoria and Queensland com-
bined, and it pays the highest rate of in-
terest in the Commonwealth on its railway
debt, and it has achieved the record slump
in the number of its factory employees.
The Langsters’ last Ministerial act was to
promote police-officer Mackay from third-
class to first-class superintendent, with a rise
of £lOO p.a. from May 1. This is the gentle-
man to whom the “Labor Daily” gave the
broadest of hints that if he wanted rapid
promotion he would have to go after the
New Guard. In the Domain on Sunday
Donald Grant professed to give the inside
“It is alleged in Mr. Lang’s newspaper that the
police have made dreadful discoveries about the
New Guard.”
CHORUS: “With catlike tread upon our foe
we steal.
In silence dread our cautious way
we feel.
Oh, goodness me! Why, what
was that?”
SERGEANT: “Silent be; it was the cat.”
story of Mr. Mackay’s operations against the
men concerned in the descent on Garden's
house. These operations will necessarily be
reviewed by the Royal Commissioner whom
the Lyons Government is to appoint; mean-
time the Stevens Government should certainly
demand an assurance that no high police-
officer makes a confidant of Grant or any
person like him.
In small things as in great, Lang seems
unable to tell the truth. He had the face
to assert in the Assembly that the Bank of
England directors are mostly foreigners (as
if any country would be crazy enough to let
aliens control its national bank!), and that
the governor, Norman, is an American. Nor-
man comes of an English county family long
settled in Herefordshire ; is a product of Eton
and King’s College, Cambridge, and won the
D.S.O. in the South African War. About
the only name on the list of 2S directors
which does not sound British is that of
F. C. Tiarks, and he is a Kentishman who
was an officer in the Navy for seven years.
Among Federal Ministers new to Cabinet
rank Hawker has made the best impression.
His answers to questions without notice re-
veal an unusual grasp of departmental de-
tails, and unusual also is his ability to deal
with commerce matters without having to
consult office files. Barring accidents,
Hawker should go far; but there is a danger
that under the redistribution scheme, shortly
to be introduced, his electorate (Wakefield,
S.A.) will disappear.
Lang aroused the cheers of the Assembly
section of his mob by comparing the state
of N.S.W. beneath the heel of the Federal
oppressor to that of France when occupied
by the Germans in 1870. There is one point
of resemblance: France deliberately brought
the trouble on its own Head by starting the.
scrap, and so did Lang-ridden N. S. Wales.
There the analogy ends, for France paid the
invader to the last centime. Lang has left
that job to his successors.
The bonus of per bushel on exported
wheat of this year’s crop will cost over
£3,000,000 —upwards of 10s. per inhabitant.
Westralia will fare comparatively well and
Tasmania badly. South Australia will be
a winner and N.S.W. a loser. A sales tax
on flour, imposed when it became clear that
there was no earthly prospect of financing
the 45.-a-bushel “guaranteed” by the Sculli-
dores, would have been heaps better for the
farmers, nor would there have been any drain
on the Treasury.
Maoriland has a sterner way than Aus-
tralia with the sort of Government employee
who thinks he runs the cQuntry and can
do anything he likes. Forbes found that
Post and Telegraph hands were boycotting
a storekeeper who had refused t 0 .sign a peti-
tion against reduction in civil-service pay.
The mob outbreak in Auckland and the tram
strike in Christchurch were preceded by an
eruption of disorderly and threatening lan-
guage on the part of State servants. So
the Government has tacked on to its Finance
Bill a clause providing for the instant and
final dismissal of officers found guilty of
“conduct calculated to incite, procure or
encourage grave acts of violence, lawlessness
or disorder... .or to bring the Government
into disrepute... .or to endanger in any other
manner the peace, order or good government
of New Zealand.” And the bill is now law.
Bishop Barnes, of Birmingham, has stag-
gered many respectable people by stating
that there is a dangerous increase of popu-
lation in this world, or in some parts of it.
In 1801, the year of the first census, Eng-
land and Wales had a population of rather
less than 10 millions. In the next 120
years it added nearly 28 millions; the total
became 37,886,699. If this goes on over-
crowding is inevitable. Great epidemics
have almost left off, and great wars swallow
up money more than 'they do humanity. The
period from 1801 to 1921 covered the wars
against the French Republic and Empire
and the World War.
Justice McArthur, who is convalescing
after a severe illness, is expected to return
to his seat on Vic. Supreme Court Bench
in July. His absence has caused business to
pile up, and it may be necessary to make
some temporary arrangement after the new
Government comes in. Irvine’s appointment
as Acting-Governor, which has been made
a full-time job, did not reduce the usual
number of wigs, as Cussen, who had been
on leave, lias returned, and Wasley, of the
County Court, was continued as an Acting
Justice.
The U.S.A. is about the same size as Aus-
tralia, but it is divided into 48 self-govern-
ing States, each with a Governor and a two-
Ilouse Legislature, instead of into six. Eight
of these States are smaller than Tasmania ;
three, Nevada, Delaware and Colorado,
probably have fewer people (Australia is
behind with its census) ; not one is so big
and cumbersome or so badly in need of sub-
division as Westralia, South Australia,
Queensland or N. S. Wales, and only nine
are about equal in extent to Victoria. Not
only does N. S. Wales beat every one of the
48 American States for size, but it beats 28
of them in the matter of population. Taking
all things into account, there are plenty of
reasons for the subdivision of Australia. The
chief ones against it are that the States own
the railways, the gauges differ, the lines are
used for the buying of votes, and politicians
live on them.
The Speck has a sensible system of un-
employed relief. Through the Agricultural
Bank money is lent without interest or
given free on a subsidy basis to the farmer
to enable him to effect permanent improve-
ments. He must, of course, engage men for
the work from the unemployed register. The
scheme has already led to a notable increase
in production and a large decrease in un-
employed, and results for 12 months warrant
further funds being raised to carry on the
good work.
CARICATURIST: “Well, good-bye, Mr. Lang,
and thank you for going; but couldn’t
you leave your dial to Stevens?”
The latest official tabulation of the cost of
food and groceries since July, 1914, shows
that the increase has been greatest in N. S.
Wales, 34.2 per cent., and lowest in West-
ralia, 8.2 per cent. Actual cost of food
and groceries for March, 1932, was highest
in N. S. Wales and lowest in Queensland.
In the case of individual towns it was high-
est in Kalgoorlie and lowest in Toowoomba.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
_ “E.A.L.”: Time, morning; and over the
air comes an address from station 2KY;
subject, “Lang is Right.” An eloquent lady
speaker tells us all Lang has done for the
women of N.S.W., finishing impressively with
these words: ‘As one woman to other women,
I say again, ‘Lang is Right.’ Good morning.”
Announcer’s voice: “We will now have two
numbers by Jack Hylton and liis band:
‘Time Will Tell’ and ‘Perhaps.’ ”
$1: V -•*
“S.T.S.”: Our Japanese naval visitors
mostly speak good English, from the Admiral
downwards; but the untravelled lieutenants
have (at present) the language of the study,
not of every day. Each carries a phrase-
book ; when I asked one for his “book,” he
was lost; when I said “dictionary,” he was
all there. Another, who spoke with diffi-
culty, at once coupled a chance mention of
daffodils with Wordsworth. But the biggest
shock was when I showed to another polite
straggler with our tongue the Adelaide suburb
Paradise. “Ah, yes,” he said, “Utopia!”
Meanwhile the Public Library of S.A. always
prides itself on welcoming the visitor in his
own tongue. The Admiral’s party, touring
round, happened to enter by the back way :
but even there in a portal were Japanese
characters. One of the hosts pointed them
out with modest pride. “Our welcome to
you,” he said. The Admiral translated them
with a smile: “To the Lavatories. Most
hospitable!”
“Naklioda”: There are 32 Japanese
doctors on board the training fleet. Each of
the 32 has a notebook. He also has a list of
questions, more or less pertinent to his
science. In Melbourne the whole of the
32 made a beeline for the Town Hall and
bombarded Dr. Dale with questions.
Whether they understood the answers of
that courteous official is not certain. Their
knowledge of English seemed to be confined
to the questions.
'!■ * * *
“Wyara”: A Chinaman at Darwin (N.T.)
tried a new ruse in endeavoring to board a
ship, bound for China, with four dozen live
Australian painted finches, the export of
which is prohibited. A Customs official was
so struck by the enormous size of the pas-
senger’s legs that he took the man to his
office for examination. There it was dis-
covered that the Oriental was wearing two
pairs of trousers with numerous pockets,
every one of which contained a finch.
“Pawang” : The ladies
of little Lonsdale-street,
Melbourne, were recently
rounded up en masse by
the police, and, there
being no other way of
dealing with them, were
charged with having no
visible means of support.
They turned up at the
court in motor-cars
flourishing cheque-books,
and all but a couple were
able to demonstrate to
the magistrate’s dissatis-
faction that they were
the proud possessors of
bank accounts.
“2nd Divvy” : Put the moral issue aside,
and consider the Garden raid as a job.
Mussolini’s Fascists punished Bolshies,
traitors and other menaces to the safety
of the State who did their dirty work “within
the law” by similar extra-legal methods. But
they never broke the 11th Commandment.
The men who organised the Maroubra ex-
pedition (1) sent out cars with the right
numbers; (2) selected a man who talked as
soon as the acid was put on him;
(3) ignored the family dog. “They always
leave the door open with a catch,” explained
Toby Crackit on a famous occasion, “so that
the dog, who’s got a bed in here, may walk
up and down the passage when he feels
wakeful. Ha! Ha! Barney ’tieed him away
to-night.” Now, were these organisers mugs
or were they traitors? The basher gang-
made no such mistakes during the timber
strike, in which Garden was so prominently
concerned.
* * *
“Lex”: A photographer gave a demonstra-
tion in Hobart. Criminal Court last week
which caused Nicholls, C.J., to remark that,
“for the first time in a Tasmanian, court
a witness had made it absolutely clear that
a finger-print, like a signature, could be
forged.” It opens up some disquieting possi-
bilities. The most obvious has reference to
alibis. It will be possible for Brown, after
committing a crime, to leave behind the
finger-prints of his friend Smith, who was
probably in another part of the country at
the time. If Jones has a grievance against
Robinson, and is able to get an impression
NO MORE, NO LESS.
“It’s nothing but gimme, gimme, gimme! I save you a fiver yesterday, and now
you want more!”
“No, dear; fust —the same — lit-tle — amount.”
of his finger-prints, he may make it very
awkward for his enemy. Again, criminals,
who now buy gloves before going out on a
big job, may find it even safer to buy finger-
prints. Hardly any jury, in the present
state of public opinion regarding this method
of identification, would find an accused guilty
of, say, murder, however strong the circum-
stantial evidence, if the Crown had to admit
that the finger-prints found at the scene of
the crime were not his. And it wouldn’t
need many successful defences of the sort
to blow out finger-printing altogether.
!!-- * * *
“D.”: According to a London cable King
George “was deeply distressed to hear, of
President Doumer’s death by an assassin’s
bullet, and immediately cancelled a proposed
visit to the theatre.” It wasn’t all respect
for the dead, either. For some time after
a well-advertised assassination those who are
responsible for the safety of leading members
of the Royal family make a point of keep-
ing them out of the public eye. The kind
of zany who takes potshots at the great is
as imitative as a monkey and as fond of
the limelight as a movie star. As soon as
his envious eyes fall on the columns given
by the tabloid papers to one like Paul Gougu-
loff he starts looking round for a king or
queen whose violent death will bring him
immortality. It applies to all crimes that
are sensational enough to get the writers
of sobstuff on the job. Sydney’s Bellevue
Hill murder would probably never have
occurred if the trail hadn’t been blazed at
Liverpool.
“The Moocher” ; A remarkable sign of the
hard times has been the midnight looting
of valuable fowls and caged aviary
birds in many of the Sydney
suburbs. According to the police,
the abductors have been burning sul-
phur beneath the birds, so that the
fumes might make them stupid and
easier to handle. This is an old
trick of English poachers, especially
with roosting pheasants, but it re-
quires a still night. For the fowl-
stealer, especially in the present cold
weather, an even better plan is tc
carry a length of narrow plank down
the trouser leg, next the skin. This
soon takes up the warmth of the
body and is then gently placed
against the cold foot of the roosting chook.
With a faint cluck of gratitude he steps
off his perch on to the warm plank and is in
the bag before he knows what is happening.
“Centurion” : Touching that argument as
to the service rifle (B. 11/5/’32), it may be
added that this rifle and other firearms will
shortly be rendered more deadly by the help of
a super-silencer which is now being considered
by the War Office. Nothing can be heard
of a rifleshot but the “whip” of the bullet
in the air, while Lewis-gun fire is inaudible
at 10 paces. The silencer also conceals smoke
and flame, thus doing away with one of the
troubles of machine-gunners, though, appar-
ently, it does not consume the give-away
steam from the water-jacket of a Vickers-
Maxim. The contraption costs only 30s. and
has no effect on the weapon’s shooting powers.
If the inventor can only adapt his gadget to
the aeroplane, war will enter upon a new
and very unpleasant phase. At present, the
noise of a ’plane is about the best defence
against it.
“Si Anu” : British Malaya is an example
of how an oligarchic Government can solve
depression problems that have gravelled other
countries. In the years anterior to the
great slump B.M. was importing Chinese
coolies to the tune of 300.000 annually. Then
the rubber industry fell on its back and
remained in that position. The anticipated
debacle, however, was not as bad as was
expected. The Celestial immigrant brings
his family system with him; there is a
Chinese proverb which says “The rich man
who lives on a mountain-top will have rela-
tives from a distance.” The domestic insti-
tution was sufficiently elastic for hordes of
unemployed coolies to be absorbed into it
without difficulty. Those for whom there
was no communal rieepot to resort to were
returned to China, where the family is equally
absorbent. Last year the deportees num-
bored over 11.000. Any non- Asiatic Govern-
ment which adopted the same precaution
would probably be faced with a revolution.
Even the proposal to deport a few foreign
Communists from Australia has met with
vigorous opposition.
# * * ❖
“Lord Luvus”: Melbourne citizens who
suffer from insomnia and dwell in the metro-
polis are viewing with consternation the
proposal put forward by aldermen to have
a set of chimes erected in the clock tower.
It is news to some that the machinery for
ringing the bells is already in position. In
the days when people didn’t have reliable
timekeepers and there wasn’t the telephone
or the radio to check them by, Town HaM
chimes were tolerated as having their uses.
In the present age they are apt to be
viewed as an unmitigated nuisance. If the
proposal is carried into execution it may be
the painful duty of a citizen to proceed
against the council for a contravention of
its own anti-noise regulation.
v •I”
“X.S.” : Greek met Greek in a Melbourne
court the other day when a case of car-
stealing was being argued. A witness
claimed that he liad taken a car as agent
to accused’s flat, where some drinking hap-
pened. Later the car turned up in N.S.W.
with accused in it, protesting vainly that he
had arranged to buy it and had been given
permission by the agent to take it for a
trial run. Accused was examined by counsel
as to character and admitted having been
previously sentenced for various offences,
some concerning motor-cars. He then begged
DISCRETION.
VISITING COUSIN : “Of course you’ve often
heard of me?”
JIMMIE: “Oh, yes; but you won’t ask me
what, will you?”
leave to cross-question his accuser, the
agent. ’Sonah had no objection, and the fol-
lowing dialogue ensued
Accused (tb witness): “Are you now at Pent-
ridge?”
Witness: “Yes.”
“And have you done previous sentences for car-
stealing?”
“One for illegally using a car.”
“Have you been in gaol apart from that?”
“I don’t see why I should answer that.”
’Sonah: “I do.”
Witness: “Well, I did six months for false
pretences.”
Accused: “Any more?”
Witness: “Yes, three months for false pretences.”
Accused ( exultantly ): “Well, I think that record
overbalances mine, your Honor.”
The jury made it not guilty.
THE UNFORGIVABLE OFFENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Speaking in the Assembly, Mr. Lang made a
bitter personal attack on Mr. Justice McTiernan,
his former colleague, for siding with the majority
of the High Court in the recent ‘infamous judg-
ment’ against the N.S.W. Government.”
I rain my curses fast and free,
Or, you might say, I hail them,
On bondholders across the sea,
And scheme to welsh and scale them.
Anon I turn aside to lash
With fiercer objurgations
The Judge whose rulings chance to clash
With my anticipations.
For widows and the fatherless
My heart is ever aching,
Aye, even though their present stress
Is mostly of my making.
But all of bias I indict
Who need the least persuasion
To see I’m absolutely right
On every occasion.
Did he not realise how thus
H’e’d anger and chagrin us?
The man who once was one of us
To give his voice “agin” us!
Some prate no party ties a Judge
Should know, no creed declare for.
All blithering rot and arrant fudge!
What Did We Put Him There For?
O recreancy vile and base!
It seems we nursed an adder.
He climbs to high judicial place
And then ignores the ladder
INFORMATION SUPPLIED.
LITTLE SISTER: “What’s a ‘literary aspirant,’ Mabel?”
BIG SISTER (18 months bigger ): “Literary aspirant? Oh, silly — that’s what an author
takes when he’s got a headache.”
Whereby he rose, and clean forgets
The way his weight should swing for,
Unlike the usual marionettes
I pull a nimble string for.
Since traitorous Iscariot’s day
Was ever such a quitter?
What words can fittingly portray
This treachery bad and bitter?
Upon the miscreant’s head I heap
Anathemas sonorous
And, baying round me loud and deep,
My hounds take up the chorus.
A Judge to keep an open mind,
Obey the oath he swore him!
Put all his politics behind
In every case before him!
A Judge, who owns his job to us,
To nip the hand that fed him !
How positively infamous!
Pity we can’t behead him.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The Monk” : Twenty-odd years ago when
The Bulletin printed Arthur Adams’s bril-
liant “Twin-bed Dialogues” it must have
WHAT SOME WOMEN WILL DO.
"Why do you say Mrs. Brown is untruthful?”
“She’s been telling people my real age.”
seemed almost necessary to explain what the
indelicate things were. Now a furniture-
builder reports that the old-fashioned double-
bed is rarely asked for except in iron, and
that three times out of four the bride, coming
along to map out the furniture, turns the
old family couch down flat. Nobody knows
better than hotelkeepers how swiftly the
change has taken place and how complete
it is. A touring-car load that lately sampled
over a score of pubs in three States —many
oi them quiet wayside Royals and Imperials
—was only once told that no twin-bedded
double-rooms were available, though in a
good many cases, of course, Bung has com-
promised by putting in a narrow cot and
leaving it to I J a and Ma to toss for positions.
“One Spade”: Sydney’s Harbor Bridge
begins to look less of an extravagance when
one considers the investments of bigger cities
in that line. N’Yark, for instance, owns
seven huge bridges, one to every million in-
habitants. And it has paid pretty heavily
tor them. The latest, the George Washing-
ton, is a suspension bridge, a good deal
longer than Sydney’s monster, it is true, but
only half the width. It cost 60,000,000
dollars, and the toll charges are so framed as
to return 7 per cent, gross on capital in-
vested. Folk who squeal about the Sydney
bridge tolls may be consoled by the extract
from the schedule: “Motor-’bus, one dollar-
cars, 50 cents; trucks, 50 cents to 2 dollars’
according to weight; bicycles, 25 cents’
pedestrians, 10 cents. The lads who con-
trol the George Washington—the Port of
New York Authority—have insured the
structure against every mishap they could
think of, from lightning to anarchists, poli-
cies totalling 25,000,000 dollars of cover,
for which they pay only 91,000 dollars a
year in premiums.
* * *
“Chevroford” : There is a woman in Mel-
bourne wdio will think twice in future before
accepting a lift from chivalrous young men
she doesn’t know. The lady in question
had not gone far in the company of her two
new acquaintances when the car they were
in suddenly left the road, plunged through a
picket fence, mounted the verandah of a
cottage and came to rest with the bonnet
of the vehicle firmly stuck in the front door.
The owner of the house was nearly impaled
by one of the pickets which flew through
the window. When he went to the door to
see who was knocking he found the woman
badly cut. The driver and his friend had
disappeared.
“Mugge”: “Mr. Wallace,” according to
Mrs. Wallace, “lost a fortune on the
racecourse. He was very optimistic, and
backed his fancies regularly.” And, as hap-
pens to many who lose fortunes on the turf,
he turned tipster, and before he died had
the biggest following in that line in England.
A barrister with a reputation
for losing most of his cases, or
a surgeon whose operations
usually proved fatal, would soon
cease to be regarded as an autho-
rity, but newspapers are always
ready to employ sporting writers
who have demonstrated conclu-
sively that they can’t pick
winners. It is the only depart-
ment of modern journalism in
which experts are at a discount. The ideal
racing sage would be, of course, not a broken
punter but a retired bookie. Yet I’ve never
heard of an ex-bookie being offered as much
as a fiver a week for supplying racing-
notes, much less the £2OOO p.a. which Edgar
Wallace earned as a London sporting expert.
“S.T.S.”: A commonsense but unusual
judgment has been given by an Adelaide
Court. Counsel for an elderly woman
charged with pilfering in a shop admitted
kleptomania. Her doctor said it is not
rare among women of a certain age, and
in shops she needed to be “protected from
herself.” Sabine, S.M., decided that im-
prisonment would be cruel and a fine useless.
Bond taken “to be of good behavior for three
years, and during that, period not to go
shopping.”
“Kimmel”: A German
Court has decided, and the
ruling seems sensible enough,
that there are no trade
rights in the word “whisky”
any more than in the word
“beer.” Real port may be
the exclusive product of
Oporto, and genuine Ched-
dar cheese of Cheddar, but
whisky, not being a place-
name—it is said to be de-
rived from the Gaelic uisge-
beatha, meaning “water of
life” —is cosmopolitan, and
a Bavarian distiller has as
much right to use it for his
product as a Scot. Presum-
ably the same applies to
brandy, which comes from a
Danish word; but French
brandy-makers have estab-
lished a distinct, vested in-
terest, not to he infringed
upon, in that particular
form of spirit known as cog-
nac, christened after its
district of origin. It is an
almost unvarying rule of law
that the place-names which
have made a product, parti-
cularly a liquid one, valuable
must not be borrowed by
imitators, except with some
qualification. Some years
ago the English Court of
Appeal decided that the Car-
thusian order was entitled to
the exclusive use of the word
“Chartreuse” for its liqueur,
although the French Govern-
ment had sequestrated the
monks’ business and a new
company was seeking to
carry it on under the old
title. If the first Scot or
Irishman who put whisky on
the world’s market had sent
out his firewater under a
place-name he might have
left a goldmine to his succes-
sors, but he missed the
chance.
Selma : It happened at our local church
bazaar. The affluent but admittedly nig-
ardly station-owner whose wife had opened
the affair was stopped by a babbling crowd
of flappers. From their excited chatter he
gathered that the local member had been asked
to subscribe to a worthy parish cause, and
had, with an airy wave of his hand, recom-
mended the girls to apply to the squatter
undertaking to double the amount the parsi-
monious one donated. That individual
thought hard for a few moments; then re-
senting the implied slight on him, he broke
the rule of a lifetime and put his name down
tor £oo. The staggered M.P. paid up the
hundred, hut he was a broken man for the
next few weeks.
* ❖ ...
“Alibi”: A couple of Sydney Tecs arrested
a man on suspicion last week. At the
station he turned out to be a reputable ex-
bridge worker with £3OO on him and as
much more to his credit at a bank. The
actions which had caused the sleuths to
imagine the worst sprang from his fear that
they were a brace of crooks with designs on
ins notes. But his experience wasn’t a
patch on one that Jack Lindsay, Norman’s
eldest, had a few years ago. He was peram-
bulating Pitt-street, thinking the long. Ion"
thoughts of the poet, when he noticed that
two gimlet-eyed beings with immense feet
were tracking him. Presently they ranged
alongside and accused him of being' a badlv-
wanted murderer! He gave his name and
references, and, as they still seemed doubt-
ful, made them a sporting offer. “I have
nothing to do,” he said. “Suppose I go to
the station and wait while you telephone?”
Their gratitude was pathetic. Lindsay didn’t
and doesn’t look in the least like an assas-
sin. On the other hand he is no Edward P.
as regards his clothes. If he hadn’t rather
GLOWING PROSPECT.
“Well, we got a decree all right.”
“Tm so grateful. I will give you all my divorce work in the future.”
enjoyed his bizarre experience he might
very well have started an action against
liis tailor, who was chiefly responsible for
the detectives’ error in deduction.
“Lord Luvus”: Melba was that rare phe-
nomenon an artist and a practical person.
Nevertheless, she left at least one conun-
drum for the Gent. Ones to argue over. A sum
of £BOOO out of her £117,000 estate was be-
queathed to the Albert-street Conservatorium,
the musical preserve of that fine conductor
Fritz Hart, for the fostering of incipient
genius which might develop into “another
Melba.” The legacy was conditional on
the Conservatorium taking care of the tes-
tator’s grave and memorial at Mount Mary,
on the ancestral Lilydale estate; otherwise
the bequest would revert to the other heirs.
But there is no grave of and no memorial to
the diva on Mount Mary, because she altered
her mind _in her declining years and elected
to be buried in the local cemetery. Counsel
recently pointed out to Justice Lowe that
the Conservatorium could obviously not
observe the provisions of the will, and
’Sonali, after ruling that the condition was
invalid, decided that the trust was good and
took effect free therefrom. The trustees have
therefore to sbt aside £BOOO and apply the
income in perpetuity for a scholarship at the
Conservatorium. It would have been an
ironic stroke of fate if the great singer’s
benefaction to the art she glorified had gone
ashore on the rocks of a legal quibble.
“C.Q.” : Tli «j recc u r
trouble at Melbourne Uni-
versity which culminated
in three students with Com-
munistic leanings being
ducked in the “lake’’—only
18in. deep, by the way—
began a year or so ago when
“Farrago,” the students’
journal, started to print
criticisms of the social sys-
tem and of professorial
authorities. They were well
written and frequently witty.
In fact, “Farrago” used to
be a model to the solemn
Melbourne dailies, both in its
editorials, its brilliant re-
porting of the speeches of
fatuous nonentities invited to
address the University and
its art and other criticism.
But the journal’s frankness
was resented by the majo-
rity ; the editors were induced
to retire, and “Farrago” be-
came more orthodox. Its
mission was taken up by the
“Proletarian,” of a more ver-
milion complexion. It is a
moot question whether
attacks on social taboos by
usually ill-informed young
Radicals and their subsequent
manhandling by adolescent
Tories advance the cause of
knowledge, but the root cause
of these troubles is probably
the extreme conservatism and
stodgy respectability of the
average professorial pedant.
If a university cannot incul-
cate into its students toler-
ance and the philosophic
attitude, what is the use of
it, anyway?
“Jeames” : Many customs go out of fashion
except the ultra-fashionable. For instance,
a cable mentioned last week that “Gentle-
men attending the Royal Courts will wear
a black crepe band above the left elbow for
a week as mourning for the late President
Doumer.” Males of all classes wore black
armhands as half-mourning a generation
ago; they’re never seen now in Australia.
For that matter black isn’t often seen even
at funerals here nowadays. A smart Eng-
lish burial is as sable as the ace of spades,
and the men at a French one look like
mutes. Twenty years ago it was the right
thing to wear a. buttonhole in Sydney or Mel-
bourne ; now it’s only done by outer suburb-
amtes. But shops like Solomon’s, in Picca-
dilly, can still ask Is. 6d. for a carnation
from young men who are off to lunch at the
Berkeley, and get it. The same with court-
esies such as calling after being entertained,
and writing letters of thanks after staying
with friends in the country. Such practices
used to be the fashion everywhere; 'they’re
as out-of-date as crinolines in 1932—except
in Mayfair and the Faubourg St. Germain.
“S.T.S.” : S.A. finds that it has been for-
getting the grave of Sir Dominic Daly, the
only Governor who ever died in harness
(February, 3868, just after the Duke of
Edinburgh’s visit). The historic spot, in the
R.C. section of West-terrace cemetery, is to
be put in thorough order. His widow stayed
on in S.A., and died at Glenelg in 1872.
‘Ex-Sosh”: What makes me doubtful if
the railways of my native State of N. S.
Wales have any hope of repaying the
£130,000,000 owed by them overseas is that
they are so unattractive to passengers re-
latively to those of other civilised countries.
I travelled by the much-boomed Caves
Express from Leura to Sydney the other
night. No dining-car (only a buffet witli
“light refreshments”), a hard seat, and the
50-odd miles took two hours —or 12 minutes
more than schedule time. The Brighton
Express does a mile a minute, is never late,
provides seats like club armchairs, and stages
a dinner and service that couldn’t be bet-
tered in a first-class hotel. In London
a friend saw me buying a first-class
ticket to Dublin. “You’re mad,” he said
“Go third” ; and I did. I found seats and
a sleeper far ahead of anything in N. S.
Wales, and a restaurant-car with better food
than you get on the Melbourne Express in
Victoria, plus the advantages of all meals
being 25 per cent, cheaper; while drinks
TAKE HER TIME.
“I’ll return your presents in the morning.”
“You needn’t hurry. I don’t expect to be engaged
again for a week or so!”
were available till bedtime. The British
railways have achieved this standard in face
of terrific motor competition, induced by cheap
home-made cars and some of the best roads
and by-passes in the world. Our railways
have many things in their favor, such as
bad country roads and wide spaces that
can’t be traversed by car or ’bus; yet their
owners avoid them wherever possible. They
will always be avoided till the people who
manage them realise that a modern railway
has to consider the comfort of passengers
as carefully as a modern liner.
A BLUE LOOK-OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Women bridge-playing fiends are a menace, and
ai'e damned.” — Rev. Hugh Patoiij of Sydney
Sister, they sometimes reckon you a menace.
A trial for your partner to surmount,
When you are in possession of a tenace
And fail to turn it to the best account.
But even though all Foster’s lore you master
And your cards’ value at a glance assess,
He labels you, this fiercely forthright pastor,
As none the less a devilish disaster,
A menace none the less.
►Sister, I’ve seen brows indicating trouble
In store for you when you have failed to
give
A sign you know a simple business double
_ From one that’s palpably informative.
I’ve watched the lips of partners moving
glumly,
As if they hinted ftheol wire your due
For over-calling hands (however comely
Your face). But, anyhow, they breathed
it dumbly,
Unlike the Rev’rend Hugh.
►Sister, I’ve heard a fellow mutter tart words
Beneath his breath, suggestive of “the
hump,”
When, strong in hearts, you didn’t steer
him heartwards,
Or scotch with string of spades a light
no trump.
But even when some amateurish blunder
Left you and him disconsolately slammed.
He didn’t tear amenities asunder
By intimating in a voice of thunder
Your fate Avas to be damned.
Sister, no shade of doubt has Parson Paton.
Whether you play your pasteboards ill or
well,
You’re all pre-empted, he’s assured, bv
Satan,
And booked for —where I hardly like to
tell.
Upon his righteous cheek no teardrops
glister
As his prophetic eye your fate regards,
Doomed for eternity, my hapless sister.
To sit in flame-fanned fours on grids that
blister.
Dealing asbestos cards.
N.S.W.
T. THE K.


The B.R.G. ROLSCREEN automatically locks
itself when down. Easily opened from inside, it has
to be deliberately cut to allow access from outside.
THE TOUCH OF A FINGER
removes these Window Screens jrom sight/
VISUALISE a Roller Blind, made in a specially
zinc coated steel wire, rust proof in all
weather, raised or lowered with a touch of the
finger, and you have a conception of the
Australian-made B.R.G. ROLSCREEN.
Designed to fit snugly on the inside of the win-
dow, the B.R.G. ROLSCREEN with neutral roncd
grey wire, gives no obstruction to the vision, and
allows a beautiful window with attractive curtains
its fullest effect. The ability to adjust the
B.R.G. ROLSCREEN at will, makes window
cleaning simple. A definite convenience after the
work required to take down and put back the
dirty frames of the usual wire window screen!
Casement
windows, too can be effectively screened with B.R.G. ROLSCREENS, which are supplied in widths from
11 inches to 61 inches and to any height.
For complete details and prices, call
on or write to —
Melb .: Gollin « Co. Pty. Ltd.
Adelaide : Elder Smith & Co. Limited.
Perth: The Structural Eng. Co. of
W.A. Limited.
Sydney: Gollin & Co. Pty. Ltd-
Brisbane: Dyne £$ Co. Ltd.
Wellington, NZ. : Derbyshire’s & Co..
John Duthie & Co. Ltd.
Dunedin, N.Z.: Donald Stuart & Co.
B.R.G.
ROLSCREENS
(Patented throughout the World).
Manufactured by
Australian Reinforced Concrete Eng. Co. Pty. Ltd.,
430 CHANCERY LANE. MELBOURNE. C.l.
14 SPRING STREET. SYDNEY.
The sketch at the right indicates the
fitting of the B.R.G. ROL.SCREEN.
The metal box containing the floating
spring roller is hidden in the top of
the window frame, harmonising with
the woodwork. The screen itself runs
in metal guides and owing to the
spring tension will come back into
position, even if given a bump, which
would tear the usual wire window
screen.
There is no limit to the life of the
B.R.G. ROLSCREEN.
Complete Instructions are sup-
plied for installation in any
type of window.
R
B/G
PERSONAL
ITEMS
In Charles Bathurst, Baron Bledisloe,
Maoriland has at long last found its ideal
Governor-General. He is one of the great agri-
cultural and pastoral authorities of the Empire
—he was chairman of the War Advisory Agri-
cultural Council and of the Imperial Grass-
lands Association and served four years as
Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of
Agriculture—has the sporting accomplish-
ments of an English squire, is a good public
speaker, and is strong on moral homilies.
Furthermore he is wealthy and generous,
attributes that haven’t often happened to-
gether in the Dominion’s gubernatorial ex-
perience. As his contribution to national
economy he has proffered a 45 p.c. cut in
his £7500-a-year salary, and has followed
that up by purchasing the site upon which
the historic Treaty of Waitangi was signed
—lOOO acres of it, providing a magnificent
park to surround the old Residency—and
presenting it to the nation.
Quick, Hume-Cook, Fowler, Higgs, Keat-
ing, De Lai-gie, King O’Malley, Ronald and
Wilks, nine of the members of the first Com-
monwealth Parliament not now in public
life, foregathered in Melbourne the, other
day to celebrate the 31st anniversary
of the opening of the said Parliament by the
present King. Hughes, Pearce and Watkins,
the only three original Federal members
now in the Commonwealth Parliament,
didn’t bother about meeting on May 9 and
clinking glasses.
Mrs. Irene Longman, the first woman
to be elected to a Queensland Parliament, is
again contesting her seat in Bulimba, where
she won, hands down, at the last State
elections from the Labor candidate, A. H.
Wright. The lady has more than made good
in the Queensland Assembly. Born in Tas-
mania and educated at Sydney Girls’ High
School, she was engaged in teaching in Syd-
ney . and at Rockhampton before her mar-
riage. She has always been prominent in
welfare work, especially that connected with
the Crbclie and Kindergarten Association,
and was president of the National Council
for four years.
Dr. STANLEY ARGYLE, who will be the
new Premier of Vic.
Edward A. Austin, who gave Billy Brown-
bill a fly for the Geelong seat in Vic.
Assembly, comes of a notable pioneer
landed family which has never neglected
public service. There has been an Austin
in State and local government from the
start of each in Port Phillip; the town clock
and homes for aged women in Geelong and
the Austin Hospital for. Incurables in Mel-
bourne keep green the memory of the clan.
The last in the Legislature was A.A., M.L.C.
for the Geelong province up to his death a
few years ago.”
In the opinion of late Solicitor-General
R R Garran, who was secretary to the com-
mittee which drafted the Federal Constitu-
tion, Bernhard Wise was the most finished
and scholarly speaker in the Convention.
But, then, “Barney” took much more pams
than most men. Before lie made a big
speech he always read a few pages by a master
of great language—very often it was Newman.
Which recalls that a front-rank Melbourne
pulpiteer who always writes his sermons
keeps a popular story going, and knocks off
once or twice in his sermon to add a few
sentences to the yarn. “It’s the only way 1
know,” he says, “to keep myself from drifting
into the habit of preaching like a preacher.
B. S. B. (Bertram Sydney Barnsdale)
Stevens’, the new Premier of N. S. Wales,
has had swift
political prefer-
ment ; but those
pa pel's are wrong
which suggest
that his is a re-
cord climb to the
Premie r ship.
Stevens got in for
Croydon on Oct.
8, 1927, so he had
4 years 7 months
in Parliament be-
fore reaching the
Premie r ship.
Among moderns
C. G. Wade held
the record. Wil-
loughby sent him
to the House in
Sept., 1903, and
he was Premier
in Sept., 1907 —a
level four years
afterwards. Other
a p prenticeships:
Holman, 15
years ; McGowen,
19 years; Parkes,
16 years; Reid,
14 years ; Dibbs,
11 years (but he
lasted only six
weeks) ; Lyne, 19
New N.S.W. Premier
STEVENS.
years; and Fuller, 32 years.
Concerning a man who can’t wait:—
Australia never before met a scientist in such a
hurry as Dr. A. H. Compton, of the Physics Depart-
ment of the University of Chicago. Cosmic radia-
tions are his hobby. Nobody knows much about
them—they were yarded only about three years ago
—and Compton is streaking over the earth measur-
ing them. Where they come from nobody knows,
but it is suggested that they arrive from bodies far
beyond the sun and the farthest star —and at this
point the average man’s imagination turns a somer-
sault. The University of Chicago has paid for a
measuring outfit, and, though it hasn’t reached abso-
lute accuracy, it has already found that the rays
are stronger at the tops of mountains than in valleys,
and that a measuring in the tropics differs from one
near the poles. Compton, met at the boat by
Von wilier, the Sydney Uni.’s physics professor, was
at work within an hour, got his job finished there,
rushed off to Canberra and Kosciusko, darted north,
and expects to catch the next steamer back to U.S.A.
In some mysterious way it is expected that the
results will throw light on the. scientists’ dispute
whether the universe is running down or keeps on
winding itself up.
Hundreds of mothers who had boys at
the war had letters telling them about Hare-
field, one of the Diggers’ hospitals, and of
kindly old Billyard Leake, its owner, who
used to wander around the wards, and was
always diving his hand into his pocket to
pay for some extra or other. He was parti-
cularly interested in artificial limbs, and
paid for scores of them. Not many knew,
as they saw him briskly moving around, that
lie had a “bought” limb himself. The money
to keep Harefield and its fine conservatories
going came mostly from lucky early invest-
ments by the family in N. S. Wales. The
owner’s death was reported last week.
Governor Game (N.S.W.) only took to
the air late in life. He was an artillery
officer before and during the war —he was a
major. Afterwards (1919) he was trans-
ferred to the air-force as an organiser (he
had been in the War Office for some years
before the Kaiser broke loose) and in 1922
was made a vice-marslial.
The Right Rev. R. W. McLean, Vic.’s new
Scotchbyterian Moderator, began shepherd-
ing at Omeo 38 years ago. As there was
no manse, he shared a four-roomed parson-
age with the Rev. H. Williams, who was
destined to become a president of the
Methodist Conference. Only last week the
Rev. Williams recalled the “distant, difficult
but delightful” days of the ’nineties when,
because congregations were small, he and
Mac sometimes joined forces at the court-
house, particularly if the Wesley chapel roof
was extra leaky.
France has long been addicted to selecting
solid, dependable-looking, non-spectacular
persons for the Presidential job, though there
have been exceptions —Poincare was essen-
tially a fighting politician, and returned to
the role to do his country good service after
liis Presidential term. But Albert Lebrun,
the country’s latest choice, who was elected
by an immense majority, is stated as haying
had one of the least enthusiastic receptions
on record in the post-election procession,
“not because he was unpopular but simply
because he was hardly known.” He must
have been even less known outside lus own
country, for there is no mention of him in
“Who’s Who,” where his immediate prede-
cessors, Gaston Douincrgue and Paul
Doumer, figured, curiously enough, on the
very same page. But the Presidency of the
Senate was the stepping-stone of all three
men for the Presidency of France, as it has
often been previously. Lebrun is a mining
engineer by profession; still in the early
sixties, he was successively Minister for the
Colonies and Minister for War in the pre-
war era.
Stevens is the 25tli Premier of N. S.
Wales. Predecessors from 1856: Donaldson,
Cowper, Parker, Forster, Robertson, Martin,
Parkes, Farnell, Stuart, Dibbs, Jennings,
Reid, Lyne, See, Waddell, Carruthers, Wade,
McGowen, Holman, Storey, Dooley, Fuller,
Lang and Bavin. Cowper, Robertson and
Parkes each had five terms of office; Holman
had the longest single term, from 1913 to
1920.
Arthur Griffith, who was N.S.W. Minis-
ter for Works when the Sydney Harbor
Bridge was sent to the Works Committee,
and who put Bradfield on to the job of pre-
paring plans, etc., has been out of Parlia-
ment for nearly 20 years; now he is asking
Waratah to put him back—the same constitu-
ency that first put him in 38 years ago.
He has the Feder’al Labor party nomination.
There were many laughs at the expenso
of just-dead Tommy Walker, M.L.A., bar-
rister, Attorney-General, Minister of Edu-
cation and Speaker in W.A.; but he deserved
cheers, too. Back in the days before the
Labor party Tommy was an M.L.A. for
the big Northumberland (Newcastle) elec-
torate, of N. S. Wales, and a frothy dema-
gogue. Some of his habits got over the odds,
and when he mishandled a revolver in a
suburban tram and shot a friendly parson,
the Rev. D. Laseron, the end arrived for
Tommy in Sydney, and he was helped over
to Perth. There he took hold of himself —
with the results mentioned above.
Thomas Murdoch, re-elected M.L.C. for
Buckingham (Tas.), comes of one of the
Speck’s oldest families, His grandfather,
Dr. James Murdoch, arrived in 1822, and
the grant of land he took up eight miles from
Hobart is still in the possession of the
family in Craigow, one of the show places
in the State. Thomas and his nephew James
are both in the Legislative Council, and there
have been previous Murdochs in each House.
Thomas Murdoch has been Warden of the
Marine Board of Hobart since 1909; among
his other offices he is Consul for Belgium
and Chieftain of the Tasmanian Caledonian
Society.
If you want
your boy to live
to a mellow old
age send him to
South Australia
and make a
Methodist parson
of him. John
Blacket is quite
a youngster
among the patri-
archs _of his
church in Adel-
aide, and he was
born there 76
years ago. He
has always liked
the pen a little
better than the
pulpit, and suc-
ceeded Dr. H. T.
Burgess as the
sect’s historian in
S. Australia. His
“History of South
Australia” has a
very solid value;
and he has writ-
ten 7659 letters
to the press.
Passed out at
90, J. T. S. Bird,
who left Devon
for Queensland at
21, linked up with
the Rockhampton
“Bulletin” the
Rev. JOHN BLACKET
(S.A.).
day after he
landed, and stayed with the paper for 5o
years. Beginning in the printing depart-
ment, he became a versatile journalist, his
specialties being racing and mining. He
had a great opportunity as a mining writer,
for many of the C.Q. goldfields were located
in his dav, including Mt. Morgan, and as
“Veno” he wielded authority for years
among the racing fraternity.
The David Syme research prize for 1932
at Melbourne Uni. has gone to Dr. A. W.
Turner, who runs the investigatory station
at Townsville (Q.), for the Council of Scien-
tific and Industrial Research. The award
was gained for a thesis on the prevention
and treatment of black disease (necrotic
hepatitis) in sheep.
Peter Fraser, who represents Wellington
Central in the M.L. Parliament, is a Labor-
ite of the old school. Born in a Scottish
village, he was a Liberal till he was 24,
secretary of the Liberal Association in his
parish, and a great battler for the Scottish
Small Landholders’ Act. He joined the
I.L.P. in London in 190 S and migrated to
the Shaky Islands two years later. For
PETER FRASER, Labor member for
Wellington Central ( M.L. ).
years he was a waterside laborer, and he came
into prominence first as president of the
Auckland General Laborers’ Union. _ He
entered Parliament in 1918, and on his re-
election in 1922 received the largest number
of votes ever cast for any candidate in M.L.
elections.
Tasmania has lost its hermit-botanist,
Gustav Weindorfer, who was found dead near
his lonely chalet on Cradle Mountain, where
he had spent the last 18 years. An Austrian,
he came to Australia in 1900, and after some
years at the Austrian consulate in Mel-
bourne settled in the Speck and soon de-
voted himself entirely to his hobby. He
became an unquestioned authority on the'
plant and bird life of the island. His wife,
who was the daughter of a Tasmanian police
magistrate, predeceased him by some years,
and in the winter for long periods he lived
entirely alone. Early in the war years
stupid rumors were current that Weindorfer’s
mountain home was equipped with a wireless
outfit, used for communicating with the
enemy, but no man was ever more loyal to
his adopted country than the old naturalist,
who had no time for Austrian militarism.
Fred Hare, passed out at 79 in the Speck,
was a goldfields warden in Westralia, and
later Commissioner of Police. In the latter
capacity he had no easy row to hoe. There
was. too much of the English military officer
about him to suit the early Labor Govern-
ments. A Queenslander, Dr. Roth, was im-
ported to investigate the treatment of the
natives along the far-flung northern coast-
line, and when he published a somewhat
damning report Hare sought to discount it
by alleging that the doctor had obtained his
information from “scum and riff-raff.”
For this outburst the Colonial Secretary
of the period suspended the offender. The
storm blew over, but the next Labor Govern-
ment reckoned it could get along better with-
out Hare and superannuated him before he
had reached the retiring age. His first job
in Westralia was held under the Imperial
Government.
Robert Weston Dawson, who died last
month at Chatswood (N.S.W.) in his 79th
year, was the second son of William Dawson,
who, with two brothers, took up land in the
Monaro district in Governor Gipps’s day,
and after whom the hills called “The Three
Brothers” are named. Later, their parents
and the rest of the family, 10 in all,
followed from England. The mother died in
Bega in her hundredth year ; the eldest son,
who lived to 87, became the well-known
police magistrate in Cooma. Robert Weston
was for many years a stock inspector at
Bombala and Goulburn. Of his five sons,
three served right through the war, one was
rejected, and the youngest was in camp at
the Armistice.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of N. S. Wales
The board’s announcement of a div. at
the rate of 5 p.c. p.a. for the March quarter,
payable next month, surprised the market,
which shortened its bid for the £2O shares
from £2S to £26. The retui’n at £27 is 3.7
p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis; the investor who
looks for a shade under 6 p.c. on his money
thus counts on an 8 p.c. div. Allowing for
absorption of the. A.8.C., and on the basis
of the last published accounts, an S p.c. div.
would now call for 4.3 p.c. on capital
(£8,780,000) and reserves (£7,320,239) com-
bined'.
Though the business is well spread all over
Australia and Maoriland, about 49 p.c. of
the deposits and 45 p.c. of the advances,
etc., have been made in the bank’s home State,
where an insurgent Government, by its
defiance of Federal authority and its con-
fiscatory proposals, lately brought about a
flight of capital and business paralysis. Thus
(the insurgent Government being at the
time still in command) the board deemed it
prudent to provide largely for contingencies,
notwithstanding the fact that the last sworn
quarterly averages of the Associated banks
showed that business generally was improv-
ing in all States except N. S. Wales.
The Gang Government’s proposed capital
levy of 10 p.c. on mortgages was a _ mis-
chievous piece of soviet legislation, designed
to bring about a complete financial collapse
and repudiation of debts by the “capi-
talist” State, but not to the State.
It was chiefly through the banks, the
big mutual life offices, trustee cos. and
building societies that the Gang Gov-
ernment sought to assault the savings
of the people for at least £7,000,000. Fail-
ure to pay the amount due within 14 days
was to turn a civil liability into a criminal
offence, and the property concerned was to
vest in the Crown. To prevent financial
chaos the Commonwealth promptly passed
nullifying legislation. Then, on Friday even-
ing, the Governor dismissed the Gang Min-
istry for its persistence in illegal conduct.
Internally, one of our main pillars has been
the strength of the banking position; this
has prevented bankruptcies on a large scale.
The sworn quarterly averages of the banks
show that for the September quarter of 1927
they had lent on the average £96 of every
£lOO of their deposits; the figures were £lO5
and £lO4 per cent, for the corresponding
quarters of 1930 and 1931 respectively. For
the September quarter of last year aggregate
advances (£268,400,000) were only 5 p.c,
lower than they were two years earlier. At
the moment the banks are ready to further
assist industry immediately the relaxation of
political and social tension permits confidence
to return.
The fall of the Government took the
market by surprise, and a buying wave car-
ried al] classes of stocks to higher levels on
the Saturday call. The Wales’s scrip
advanced sharply to £29.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
Net To Re- Re-
Dec . Profit. Dividends. selves, serves.
o £ £ £
1923.. 28,353 8 p.c. = 19,200 9,153 12,437
1924.. 56.6G9 12 „ „ 28.800 27,869 40,306
Reserves capitalised, £40,000 . . 306
1925.. 34,926 8 p.c. = 22,400 12,526 12,832
1926.. 21,918 8 ~ ~ 22,400 12,350
1927.. 36,020 10 „ „ 28,000 8,020 20,370
Reserves disclosed, £4050 .. 24,420
1928.. 23,163 8 p.c. = 22,400 763 25,183
1929.. 22,768 8 „ ~ 22,400 368 25,551
1930.. 18,450 8 „ „ 22,400 21,601
1931.. 24,830 8 „ „ 22,400 2,430 24,031
The embargo on sugar imports was re-
newed ; but the base price to the grower for
raws was reduced to £22 per ton as from
Oct. 1, 1930, and the figure comes up for
review again in 1933. The average price
to the grower is now about £4 below the
base price. That is because 40 p.c.
or more of the Australian output is
exported. Thus the average return on
the whole crop depends partly upon world
prices, which are now almost the lowest
ever recorded, though British and Canadian
preferences and a high exchange rate have
taken out much of the sting, so far as
the Australian is concerned. To the end
of Gee. an average of £l4 had been re-
ceived in respect of the 1931 season, but
final payments are expected to raise the
figure to £lB as against £l9 13s. Id.,
£2O ss. lOd. and £2O 17s. lOd. for the
three preceding seasons. However, a record
crushing (this co'. put 121,117 tons of cane
through the rollers) further reduced unit
costs, which had already been lowered by
cuts in award rates and improved technical
efficiency. Thus the board was able to write
last year’s profit at 8.8 p.c. on capital as
against 6.7, 8.1, 8.3, 12.9, 7.8 and 12.5 p.c.
back to 1925, and the div. was kept at 8
p.c. That is leaving out of the reckoning
£12.025 (£12,099 in the previous year)
dropped into the depreciation reserve, rais-
ing it to £81,630, some or all of which may
be genuine profit.
In 1921 the factory and plant alone were
assessed at £70,000 more than their book
value. Since then £70,000 of bonus scrip has
been scattered, and £132,656 more has been
spent on fixed assets than has been written
off, without shareholders being called upon
to contribute. Finances are snug enough: —
1921. 1927. 1930. 1931.
Pr-'d capital.. £210,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities . . 16,205 18,594 8,054 15,101
Freehold s,
m a c h inery,
plant, etc... 162,031 255,612 292,900 294,687
Stocks . . 30,851 63,545 37,985 23,908
Cover nment
securities, etc. 16,000 15,910 16,000 17,350
Debtors’ cash,
otc. . . 65,211 32,690 40,773 73,216
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£99,373, including stocks) was £12,(369
stronger than at the previous balance. The
cash holding, previously lumped with debtors’
balances, etc., in the sheet, amounted to
£58,306 when the books last closed. The
growth in fixed assets refleets the expansion
of cane production following improved
methods, etc. In 1914 it took on the average
8.51 tons of cane to make one ton of sugar;
now one ton of sugar is produced from 6.91
tons of cane, and it is doubtful if any other
country of the world does better than that.
At the moment the. outlook is for another
good season locally, but there is nothing to
encourage hopes of a substantial lift in
world prices. The market, doubtful of the
future, values the pound shares at 19s. The
return at that price is 8.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible cover is 215.,
mainly in plant, etc., worth what it can earn.
Miller Anderson, Ltd. (Adelaide)
, Dividends y Towards
Net Pref. Re-
Jan., Profits. 8 p.c. Old. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 11,565 4000 8 p.c. = 6000 1565 5,435
1929.. 10,339 4000 8 ~ ~ 6000 339 ' 5,096
1930.. 7,116 5200 4 ~ „ 3000 6,180
Loss.
1931.. 3,296 3200* Nil 12,676
1932.. 11,835 Nil Nil 24,511
*Half-year’s div.
After being in the Miller Anderson family
for about three-quarters of a century, this
Adelaide drapery business became one of the
units of the Marcus Clark organisation in
1927. That was when Marcus Clark (Vic.),
Ltd., bought all the 75,000 ords., and, in
preparation fox* livelier trading, remodelled
and enlarged the premises. Though this
interfered with takings for a while, more
than enough was netted to pay an all-round
8 p.c. for the first two years. Then, to
lighten the debt, carry more stocks and ex-
tend credit, the parent took up a further
30,000 ords. and the public a like number
of prefs., at a premium of 6d. each, raising
paid capital to £185,000 in 80,000 8 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 105,000 ords.
But before the new money could get a
chance to show what it cc-uld do, slump
came sharply on the heels of a long drought
in S. Aus. Tui*novcr fell away, there was a
pei’sistent slip in prices, the debts problem
became perplexing, the taxgatherer took a
larger slice of the attenuated earnings, and,
of course, the weight of the mortgage made
itself felt. Thus, for the year to the end
of January, 1931, a loss of £3296 showed
up; the prefs. got half a meal and the ords.
went hungry. During the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts lines slow to move
were weeded out and replaced by goods
i*eadily saleable under existing conditions,
the board says. After taking stocks into the
sheet at £16,711 below the 1931 figure, a
loss of £11,835 was recorded, both lots of
shareholders went hungry, and £24,511 of
the ord. capital was unrepresented by tan-
gibles when the books closed—goodwill
figures at £7OOO.
The money that became available from
the reduction of stocks and debtors’ bal-
ances was used to lighten the outside debt: —
1919. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £125,000 £185,000 £185,000 £185,000
Mortgages .. 110,000 104,167 98,333 92,500
Sundry creditors 41,065 16,855 13,911 9,237
Freehold .. 145,535 146,773 146,438 146,050
Equipment .. 25,514 26,176 25,020 24.245
Stocks . . 66,925 73,859 71,156 54,445
Book debts .. 30,173 49,172 40,998 37,284
Cash .. .. 7,822 7,061 966 202
Thus £5833 was snipped off the mortgage,
and £4674 off the amount coming to sundry
creditors last year. Still, when the books
closed, liabilities exceeded the more or less
liquids, including stocks, by £9806, a slip
of £10,672 during the twelvemonth.
Prices are now steadier, but lack strength,
and turnover improved toward the close of
accounts. Hopes are, therefore, that the
worst of the co.’s troubles have passed. But
the outside debt is still substantial, tax-
ation is very heavy in S. Aus., and there
will be £16,000 coming to the prefs. at the
end of next January. They are priced at
9s. 9d. on the market. The backing is 40s.
Id. in net tangibles at book values.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 11,352 10 p.c. = 10,000 1,382 87,626
Surplus from sale of property 3,750 91,376
1923.. 23,640 15 p.c. = 15,000 8,640 100,016
1924.. 25,405 15 „ ~ 15,000 10,405 110,421
New share premiums .. 12,500 122,921
1925.. 32.534 15 p.c. = 22,500 10,334 133,255
1926.. 28,598 15 „ „ 22,500 6,098 139,353
1927.. 30,484 15 „ „ 22,500 7,984 147,337
Premiums on shares .. 75,000 222,337
1928.. 41,762 15 p.c. = 33,958 7,804 230,141
1929.. 52,141 15 „ „ 37,500 14,641 244,782
1930.. 29,064 12J „ ~31,250 242.596
1931.. 1,181 74 „ „ 18,750 225,027
1932.. 19,177 0 „ ~ 15,000 4,177 229,204
The business expanded—there was a heavier
clip, well grown and sound —and the high
exchange provided a much-needed bonus to
growers, who got a little further relief from
reduction in interest charges. Yet 16,123
fewer bales (75,464) were put under the
hammer; that was because the 1931 figure
included 25,711 from the previous clip. The
Australian average for the 10 months to
the end of April was £ll 4s. 2d. per bale,
compared with £ll 2s. 10d., £l3 ss. 9d.,
£2l 10s. lid. and £25 4s. 9d. for the four
preceding seasons. Values in the livestock,
skin and hides markets were fairly steady.
Moreover, though the outlook for the price
of the staple lacks strength, it appears to
be less uncertain than it was a year ago,
and seasonal prospects are encouraging.
So, after making whatever provision was
considered necessary for bad and doubtful
debts, taxation and other contingencies, the
board wrote gross earnings for the 12
months to the end of March £14,296 better
than the previous year’s:—
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Bales. Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1923.. 68,106 £93,487 £69,847 74.7 p.c.
1925.. 39,242 107,812 74,978 69.5 „
1927.. 71,137 113,215 82,730 73.1 „
1928.. 67,062 124,863 83,101 66.5 „
1929.. 76,732 142,369 90,228 63.4 „
1930.. 58,795 114.864 85,800 74.0 ~
1931 . 91,587 78,019 76.838 98.4 „
1932.. 75,464 92,315 73,138 79.2 „
Exes were £3700 lighter, making the cut
£17,090 over the last three years. That left
the visible net result equal to 7.6 p.c. on
capital as against 0.4. 20.8, 18.4, 20.3, 10.1
and 21.9 p.c. back to 1925, when wool aver-
aged £34 19s. Bd. per bale. The div. was
lowered half a point to 6 p.c.
For the decade to the close ot accounts in
1930 distributions averaged 13J p.c.; but
repetition of those performances need not
be looked for. However, a 6 p.c. div. on
capital as it now stands —incidentally, tne
last £lOO,OOO was put out at a premium ot
75 p.c.—will call for only 3.1 p.c. on total
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined), and that should not be a dithculi.
matter, given normal seasons and stable
political and social conditions. But the
immediate future is full of doubt, depending
largely upon overseas and local develop-
ments', including the trend of Government
finance and taxation.
The next table shows the extent to which
the co. has developed its pastoral-finance
activities during the last decade, and the
nature of the financial structure: —
1922. 1930. 1931. 1932
Paid capital.. £lOO,OOO £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 149,271 364,582 270,422 254,665
Premises and
plant . . 77,339 141,235 139,460 138,403
Book debts, etc. 235.052 722,077 600,229 594,026
Investments, „ . „
cash, etc. .. H 0.526 9,005 14,005 14,005
Merchandise .. 8,380 3,610 4,250 2,430
Last year's surplus earnings, a reduction of
£6203 in the book value of advances, etc.,
and £8728 added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors (£94,127), enabled the
board to wipe £24,485 off the overdraft, re-
ducing it to £160,538. The more or less
liquid surplus (£355,802, including merchan-
dise) was £7734 stronger than at the pre-
vious balance.
The business is spread throughout Vie.
and the Riverina. The pound shares, which
fetched 525. on the market three years ago,
were priced at 255. 6d. in Melbourne last
■week-end. The return at 255. 6d. is 4.7 p.c.
on a 6 p.c. div. basis, or 6.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c.,
distribution. The backing is 38s. 4d. in net
tangibles.
Hughes Motor Service, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£/ £ £> £
1827.. 7130 8 p.c. .= 7980 13,143
1928.. 7683 8 ~ ~ 9286 11,540
1929.. 3470 4 „ „ 4800 - 1 - 10,210
1930.. 1932 Nil 1932 12,142
Loss.
1931.. 921 Nil 11,221
Since the public became interested in 1925,
shareholders have put up £45,000, lifting
paid capital to £120,000, and £40,000 has
been raised on mortgage. The new money
was used mainly to buy scrip in Checker
Cabs (a disappointing venture, which lias
not paid a div. for the last five years) and
for the purchase of Day’s Motor Tourist
Service, Ltd., in 1927. For the three years
to the close of accounts in 1929, two divs.
of 8 p.c. and one of 4 p.c. were paid, though,
according to the figures, reserves had to be
tapped for £3783 to do it.
Then Day’s failed to contribute to the
pool, and profits shrank to £1932 in 1930.
For the 12 months covered by the last
accounts, earnings were derived mainly
from rentals from the co.’s four-storeyed
freehold premises in Phillip-street, and what-
ever its own garage and car-hire business
brought in. Gross earnings (£6791) fell
away £3891. Administrative charges (£5529)
were £824 lighter; thus, after setting aside
£2183 for depreciation (£8682), a net loss
of £921 was registered. After deducting the
depreciation reserve, the book value of net
tangibles was £11,221 in excess of paid
capital—goodwill figures at £lO,OOO.
But the existence of the £11,221 depends
entirely upon tne value placed upon the
assets in the sheet. Here is the position as
the published accounts show it: —
1926. 1928. 1930. 1931.
Paid capital .. £88,696 £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Mortgage .. 40,000 40,000 39,000
Sundry creditors 8,687 5,007 5,640 5,643
Freehold .. 76,250 76,250 76,250 76,250
Cars, etc., .. 11,003 10,587 11,274 10,933
Debtors, shares,
etc. .. 18,289 98,299 96,019 96,407
Cash, etc. .. 617 1,227 790 956
The real financial position is obscured by
the lumping of debtors’ balances with shares,
etc. But. most of the £96,407 at which
the item appears represents the co.’s
interest in Day’s and Checker Cabs. Day’s
does not publish its figures, but £81,066 of
the Checker Co.’s £149,962 of capital was
visibly unrepresented by tangibles at the
end of February, 1931.
Prospects of the eo.’s early return to the
dividend list are by no means bright. In-
terest on the mortgage lias been reduced,
but the gain there may have been offset by
statutory and perhaps other cuts in rentals.
Much depends upon what Days’ and the co.’s
own car-hire business, etc., bring in.
Excluding the deprecation reserve, the
pound shai’es were covered by net tangibles
with a book value of 21s. lOd. at Aug. 31,
1931. They seldom appear on the market.
IHawarra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1921 .. 10,137 10 p.c. = 8,750 1,387 1,387
1922 . . 10,500 10 „ „ 10,000 600 1.887
1923 . . 10,045 10 „ „ 10,000 45 1,932
1924 .. 10,047 10 ~ „ 10,000 47 1,979
1925 . . 9,041 9 „ „ 9,000 41 2,020
1926 .. 6,542 7 „ „ 7,000 1,563
1927 . . 8,509 8 „ „ 8,000 509 2,072
1928 .. 8,626 8 „ „ 8,000 626 2,698
Reserves taken in, £12,500.. .. 15,198
1929 . . 23,561 8 p.c. = 8,000 15,561 30,759
1930 . . 18,875 9 „ „ 9,000 9,875 40,634
1931 .. 10,099 10 „ „ 10,000 99 40,733
1932 .. 8,058 8 „ „ 8,000 58 40,791
Despite generally depressing conditions, this
co., which has been trading oc the N. S.
Wales South Coast for the last 80 years,
added a point to its div. during each of the
two years to the close of accounts in 1931,
raising it to 10 p.c. That was because boun-
tiful seasons enabled the farmers to fill the
co.’s ships with produce. _ Last year a dry
spell over most of the dairying districts re-
duced shipments and, therefore, the co.’s earn-
ings. The board wrote the net result £2041
short of the previous year’s, and the div.
dropped back to 8 p.c. again. Subject to
political developments, there is nothing in
sight at the moment to suggest further con-
traction of earnings; indeed, recent rains
have brightened the seasonal outlook.
Finances are snug :
1920. 1928. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £75,000 £lOO,OOO £100,000£100,000
Liabilities .. 11,505 11,282 9,815 10,786
Ship property.. 49,500 60,844 54,600 50,630
Other property 1,717 2,807 2,895 2,89.)
Plant, stores, etc. 3,362 2,645 2,078 1,954
Book debts .. 14,078 15,936 6,652 3,970
Consols & cash 43,062 48,268 89,323 96,127
During the year one of the old hulks was
sold, and the book value of the fleet, etc.,
was reduced by £3970. The more or less
liquid' surplus (£89,311, equal to 17s. lOd.
per share), was £3151 stronger than at the
previous balance. Consols' figure at £52,665
(cost) and fixed deposits at £37,587; thus
the co. is in the fortunate position of being
able to return most of its capital should the
need arise.
For many years Illawarra Steam had a
struggle to pay 7 p.c. The rate climbed
to 10 p.c. in 1918; an extra 5 p.c.
was paid from inner reserves two years
later, and £25,000 of gift scrip was
scattered. The div. remained at 10 p.c.
until interrupted by the seasons and
industrial troubles about eight years ago.
In 1929 £13,800 was dropped from _ some-
where into the visible accumulation; it was
apparently the amount by which the insur-
ance received exceeded the book value of the
Merimbula, which was wrecked.
On the market the pound shares fetch 2ns.
6d. as against 245. a year ago. The return
at the higher figure is 6.3 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The backing is 28s. Id. in net
tangibles.
Perpetual Executors & Trustees (W.A.).
Towards
Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit,
£ £ £ £
Dec. 1922.. 155 Nil 155 1,205
Additional preliminary exes., £8.86 . . 2,091
June, 1923.. 222 Nil 0n0 222 *>£(s
Additional preliminary exes., £lB .. i,»Bi
Dec. 1923.. 660 Nil 660 1,-27
Reserves.
June, 1924.. 1601 Nil 1601 374
Dec-., 1924.. 1674 5 p.c. == 1575 99 473
June 1925.. 2903 5 „ „ 1575 1328 1,801
Dec 1925.. 2342 5 „ „ 1575 76) 2.568
June, 1926.. 2723 6 ~ 1890 833 3,391
Doc 1926.. 2655 6 ~ ~ 1890 765 4,156
June, 1927.. 2443 7„ „ 2205 238 4,394
Dec., 1927.. 2941 7 ~ ~ 2205 (36 5,130
June, 1928.. 3815 8 „ ~ 2520 1295 6,425
Dec., 1928.. 4000 8 „ „ 2520 1480 7,905
June 1929.. 3520 9 ~ 2835 685 8,590
Dec-.’ 1929.. 3657 9 ~ „ 2835 822 9,412
June, 1930.. 3448 9,. „ 2835 613 10,025
Dec., 1930.. 2719 7 „. ~ 2205 514 10,539
June, 1931.. 2115 5,, „ 1575 540 11,079
Dec., 1931.. 1699 4„ ~ 1260 439 11,518
This little Westraliaii trustee co. began
about 10 years ago. Much of its suc-
cess has been due to the returns from
its six-storeyed freehold in St. George’s-
terrace, Perth. The property was bought
in 1922 for £47,519; with additions it stood
in the books at £60,845 at Dec. 31, 1931.
unchanged during the twelvemonth. Other
assets at the end of December were furni-
ture, £1609; Government securities, £12,650;
debtors’ balances, £3611; cash, etc., £l4lB.
Only £323 was coming to sundry creditors
During the last IS months the co.’s corpus
and other earnings have suffered severely
from the fall in values and from statutory
cuts in interest and rents, while mora-
torium legislation and the lifeless state of
the property market have delayed the wind-
ing up of many estates. For the 12 months
to the close of last accounts, interest and
rents brought in £6003, or £1373 less than for
the previous year. No hint is given as to
the volume of trusts on the books, but com-
mission earnings, which more than doubled
during the four year's to the end of 1930,
reaching £17,053, dropped to £13,386 last year.
Thus income from all sources was £5040
lighter at £19,389. Exes. (£15,592. includ-
ing provision for depreciation and taxation)
were got back £3070, leaving the profit
claimed (£3797) £1970 short of the previous
year’s. That was after £l7 had been added
to the commissions suspense account
(£4425) as against £4OO, £445 and £1759
in each of the three preceding years. Includ-
ing it with profits, the year’s net result
was 6 p.e. on capital as against 9.7, 31.3.
12.4. 8.5, 8.5 and 8.3 p.c. back to 1925. So
the div. was reduced to 4 p.c. for the last
half.
On capital and reserves combined a 4 p.c.
div. would call for a shade under 3.4 p.c.
Westralia is developing nicely, and as the
co.’s reserves accumulate earnings should
benefit. There are 210,000 pound shares
paid to 65.; they are covered by net tangibles
of 7s. Id.
National Mutual Life
Though the Actuary makes an annual
overhaul, and bonuses are declared each year,
this one of Australia’s five big mutual offices
sticks to the old-fashioned idea of sending
out the valuation figures triennially. Those
for the three years to Sept., 1931, disclose
continued progress and satisfactory margins.
Tlie amount available for distribution
amongst policy-holders (there are no share-
holders) is the difference between the Assur-
ance fund and the net liability under poli-
cies ;—•
Assurance Net Triennial Bonuses
Sept., Fund. Liability Surplus. Declared.
•£ £> £ £
1922.. 16,557,695 14,882,160 1,705,499 1,455,499
1925.. 22,607,250 21,021,102 2,569,493 2,118,974
1928.. 29,147,330 28,011,304 3,431,655 3,013,51 S
1931.. 34,558,434 32,898,077 4,160,430 3,577,833
Thus the surplus for the last three years
was £728,775 stronger than the surplus for
the preceding triennium. and an extra
£564,315 of bonus was declared. On whole-
of-life policies, bonuses allotted for the year
to Sept. 30 last ranged from 38s. per cent,
on contracts one year in force to £4 per
cent, on those 30 years old or more. Of the
£582,597 by which the surplus exceeded
bonuses, £429,452 has been added to the
investment fluctuation reserve, raising it to
£600,000; the other £153,145 has been car-
ried forward. By setting aside large sums
in addition to the strong actuarial reserves
the management is providing for the main-
tenance of satisfactory bonuses in the future,
so far as lies within itsl power.
It was with the same idea that the office, in
1928, lowered the rate which it assumes the
fund will earn from 3J to 3 p.c. The method
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 16.)


*
A
Mimm
caw & plain
.
m
fjftl
¥>: : : : : : : : :
X.': ; y
mmm
■JIpN /W~x
gHg
*
,#
¥<Ssfti::«:¥
ft*?
11
M
m
i
lug
«?«««»
Si
wfmm
§§B
11
' '
9
V
<& *
«ers
v.
H
HP
3070 -8
1
hey’ve billed us on the silver
screen
As “Cork” and "Plain" - world
beaters.
More popular than six Marlenes,
Or half a dozen Gretas/
A clever blend of the highest grade Virginia leaf has been
responsible for the popularity of Capstans during the last
thirty years. To-day you find that same fine tobacco,
identical in flavor and aroma, in both Plain and Cork-
Tipped Capstans.
lO to I it's a
CAPSTAN
CORKTIPPED
and PLAIN lOfarV-
Also in Round Hermetically Sealed Air-tight
Tins of 50, and in Boxes of 50 and 100.


n Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. \ ork ana Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & C’ollisox, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Se., and
Coilison and Co. (Melb.).— Advt
**' * ' *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
DEPRECIATION OF ASSETS.—-Every investor
to-day knows what a knock he has taken in his
investments. Looking at the Stock Exchange quota-
tions makes him think furiously. But no headaches
for the man that has invested substantially in Life
Assurance.
A Life Policy in a reputable sound Office never
depreciates. Fix up one right, now with the T. & G.
Mutual Life Society. Ring or write any of iis
offices and the Policy best suited for your particular
needs will be speedily fixed up. — Advt.
<s”nTp}
Why should not the Business
Girl insure for her Future ?
■
<6
u
m
m
m
w
m
i
r/
v/r,
! pl
m
y vv;
'//J7‘.
N5
-’^S\
\! _
-'V
m:
i a
mi
■£2t^
A few shillings a week now
will give security always
'HERE is a tremendous amount
* of comfort to be got out of
having a Life Assurance policy,
and a number of young women
have this comfort in these days.
They are wise in their generation.
For a few shillings a week an
A.M.P. policy for £5OO can be
secured. There are several kinds
of policy. Some provide that the
amount assured shall be paid at
40; some at 50 years; and there
are many other kinds. These
policies provide the money for a
woman, either to give her children
the best education, or to take a
trip to Europe, or to ensure the
comfort of her old age.
While she is earning a good salary,
a young woman should invest a
little of it in providing for her
future happiness. It gives her a
proper independence.
USE YOUR TYPEWRITER ON THIS!
To the AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY,
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I had not realised how Life Assurance could help me. I am .
years of age. Send me full particulars, please.
Name
Address
è
of valuing by a low rate locks up during
the early years of a policy sums which would
otherwise be available for distribution, and
releases them with interest at a later stage.
After deducting taxes (£564,570 for the last
three years as against £159,823 for the pre-
ceding three) the average rates of interest
earned were £5 Bs. lid. p.e., 1929; £5 9s.
lOd. p.e., 1930; £4 18s. Id. p.c., 1931. So
there is a comfortable margin there, though
it may narrow a little further yet. Also,
exes, made off with only 13 p.c. of last year’s
net premiums, whereas 15.2 p.c. was allowed
for in the valuation. The mortality experi-
ence for the three years was only 55 p.c.
of the expectation as against 58, 70 and
65 p.c. for the three preceding trienniums.
The Association gathers nearly half its
annual income outside Australia.
Stock Exchange Revival
Realising that if any of the major parties
to the Premiers’ plan failed to carry out
their obligations, it would seriously impede
the recovery of Australia, investors through-
out the Commonwealth rejoiced on the
fall of the Lang Government by giving
spirited support to all front-rank Stock
Exchange securities. This was most marked
on Sydney .’Change, where the crowd that
thronged the vestibule to follow the course
of prices as they were chalked on the
saleboard was the biggest that had congre-
gated there since the boom in oil shares more
than two years ago. For many weeks the
Saturday call of the share list had not taken
more than 25 minutes; last Saturday it
occupied an hour and 25 minutes. The
number of transactions was 335, a figure
which exceeded the morning, noon and after-
noon calls combined on any one day for
over a, week. Thousands of pounds changed
hands.
All the 4 p.e. Consols advanced sharply,
gains ranging from 11s. 3d. for the 193 S’s
to 655. for the 1953’s and 1959’5; mostly the
rise exceeded 30s. The scrip of traders
whose business is wholly or largely in N. S.
Wales made most headway. Bank of N. S.
Wales and Commercial of Sydney advanced
375. 6d. and 30s. respectively. Tooth’s regis-
tered a sharp rise of 2s. 101 d., but later lost
Is. of the increase. Most of the front-line
industrials registered gains of 10 p.c. or
more, though profit-taking later resulted in
some recessions. Goldsbrough’s, for instance,
lost over 50 p.c. of the opening rise of Is. sd.
Also in Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane
prices on ’Change strengthened and turnover
livened. In London, too, there was a sharp
rise in the price of all Australian Govern-
ment securities, thus improving prospects for
conversion of our overseas debt at a lower
rate of interest.
To what extent reaction is likely to follow
it is difficult to say at the moment. Much
will depend upon election results. In this
respect the verdict of the people in Victoria,
so far as it can be taken as a guide, is
distinctly encouraging. When conditions
become more settled, the return of much
N. 8. Wales capital which fled to the South-
ern State_ is probable. Each stock, however,
must be judged on its individual merits.
Newnes Oil Shale
The Shale Oil Development Committee has
recommended the acceptance of a Melbourne
offer for the Newnes shale property. Five
proposals were received : that of Treganowan
and Chambers was viewed with most favor.
They offer to form a co. to which -they
undertake to subscribe £lOO,OOO for the
erection, among other things, of a “crack-
ing” plant—this alone would cost approxi-
mately £60,000. Also the co., within a speci-
fied period, is to “furnish satisfactory plans
for developing the rich shale deposits of
the Capertee Valley.”
At any rate the men who make the offer
have laid their fingers on what the “Wild
Cat” has long regarded as the weak spots
in some past efforts. The English co. which
put up the Newnes works and built the rail-
way down the Wolgan Valley hoped to reach
the Capertee deposits by means of a tunnel,
which would cost millions; that tunnel not
being provided, the co. had to be satisfied
with the thinner deposits of the Wolgan
Valley. Further, the plant not being modern,
the range of oils recoverable was narrow,
and the petrol content was mostly lost.
“Cracking” will obviate this.
The Commonwealth Government is re-
garding the scheme very sympathetically.
The first monthly clean up of Bulolo Gold
Dredging has not allayed the disappointment
expressed at the results of the short pre-
liminary runs. For the 28 days to April
25, total recoveries were valued at 57,000
gold dollars from 243,700 cubic yards, or
23.39 cents per yard. The clean up on April
25 returned 1871 oz. from 98,700 yards, the
approximate value being 25,250 gold dollars.
The total yield was £11,728 on a gold basis,
or 11.55 d. per cubic yard. In Australian cur-
rency this is equivalent to £19,655, or Is.
7.05 d. per yard. The original boring esti-
mates, made in the days of the gold standard,
exceeded 2s. per yard for the greater part of
the co.’s area. The board points out that
results thus far cannot be taken as a guide
t 0 the real value of the property. None of
the original drill holes have yet been cut
and not more than four are likely to be
dredged within the next six months. The
Australian-built dredge is returning a greater
yardage than was expected, which, of course,
makes for lowered working .costs. These, to-
gether with royalties, were placed at' 15
cents per yard in the original estimate.
3fi * 'A>
World lead stocks continue to increase
despite substantial reduction of output by
many smelters. Stocks are now estimated
at 300,000 tons, over one-half of which is
held in the U.S.A. In Great Britain, where
a 10 p.c. duty was recently put on non-
Empire lead, sellers are asking a 10 p.c.
premium on the price of duty-free Empire
lead. The Tariff Advisory Committee has
been asked to make an investigation. No
doubt foreign interests would like to' see
lead and zinc again on Britain’s free list.
* * ; ; ;
Some of the Rand mines have inaugu-
rated a scheme of systematically sweep-
ing the stopes, thereby collecting a lot
of fine ore that would be otherwise
lost. Generally speaking, about 10 per
cent, of the ore broken is recovered
as fines (less than mesh) ; the actual
percentage varies in each case with the
nature of the ore. Each native sweeper is
expected to recover about 15 tons of fines
per month. Much of the swept ore assays
12dwt. per ton, or twice that of the unbroken
ore. One Rand mine has also installed in
the stopes tin boxes into which water from
the drills and from drainage is collected;
the settled slime has been found even
richer in gold than the sweepings. These
refinements in mining are worthy of special
attention in Australia.
$ ❖ * *
Fifty men are employed at Mt. Wandoo
(Q.), and the 10-head battery is nearing
completion. Thin but rich seams of ore are
scattered irregularly through the gneissic
country rock, and patches of rich alluvial
have been found in the vicinity of the de-
composed seams. A shaft is down 120 ft.,
and the country is to be tested by cross-
cutting. The Queensland Government is to
put up £75 towards the cost of a well for
permanent water.
* sis * *
“Old Warden”: H. W. Gepp, formerly
chairman of the Commonwealth Migration
and Development Commission, has just com-
pleted a visit to Mt. Morgan on the invita-
tion of the Queensland Government. The
object was an inspection of the mine and
plant with a view to granting the crowd now
operating the old mine assistance under the
unemployment-relief scheme devised at the
last Premiers’ conference. Gepp’s recom-
mendation has not yet been announced.
Queensland’s share of the Commonwealth
relief money is likely to be some £620,000.
Of this Mt. Morgan hopes to get a minimum
grant of £30,000, which would mean employ-
ment for hundreds of men in reopening and
reconditioning the mine.
South Blue Consolidated, N.L., was regis-
tered in Melbourne last week with a capital
of £2OOO in £1 shares. The idea is to test
the Sheepshead line of reef, Bendigo (Vic.).
From a depth of 200 ft. a crosscut is to be
driven to intersect the spurs below the junc-
tion of the South Red, White and Blue and
the Sheepshead auriferous faults. On the
board are H. W. Gepp, E. H„ Flack, P. R.
Sutherland and J. Phillips,
* * * *
A Launceston crowd is struggling to carry
out a plan, first mooted 32 years ago, to
divert the Whyte River at a point about 30
miles south of Mt. Bisehoff, on the Tas. west
coast. The river, which is some 70ft. across,
carries a good volume of water. It bends
back in a big loop, the base of which is a
rocky spur only 500 ft. across. The Holdfast
Co. is driving a 12ft. x 12ft. tunnel through
the spur in order to turn the river and work
its bed for gold and osmiridium. Though
the tunnel is now about half-way through,
treacherous ground and shortage of funds
are holding up the work. The promoters were
to take £lB,OOO in scrip for the idea of re-
viving the scheme, as against £12,000 cash
to be subscribed ; so the public has been shy.
On reasonable terms it is still a good gamble.
A Bulletin man visited Wiluna (W.A.)
the other day and found the plant and
methods of mining models of operative eco-
nomy. On the bottom level (800 ft.) the
main east lode is improving; an employees’
welfare scheme —the only one of its kind
on the Westralian goldfields—has been
started, and the cost to the co. has been
£50,000 to date.
A group of Westralian mining speculators,
headed by some Kalgoorlie and ex-Kalgoorlie
managers, shortly hope to raise the old
Lancefield from the dead. A diamond drill,
operating from the surface, has penetrated a
body of ore at a depth of about 1000 ft. The
core, which is being assayed by the Govern-
ment, is “very promising in appearance.” If
results from this and other bores are right,
it is said that capital will be found to work
the show on a large scale. Before it closed
down some years ago, the Lancefield pro-
duced over li million pounds’ worth of bul-
lion. Out-of-date plant and high costs caused
the shutters to go up.
* :!! * *
_ According to cable reports, a comprehen-
sive scheme submitted by the International
Tin Committee has been approved by the
F.M.S., Nigerian, Bolivian, Netherlands East
Indies and Siamese Governments. This pro-
vides that all producing countries, with the
exception of Malaya, will either totally sus-
pend operations for two months from" .Tune
1 or limit production to 13i p.c. of their
normal output for the following three months.
After that output is to be restricted
to 60 p.c. until the price of tin averages
£2OO per ton for a month. At the begin-
ning of this year it was found that Malaya
had overproduced her quota by 4500 tons;
so an extra 23 p.c. restriction cut was im-
posed. Although this wiped out the quota
excess just referred to early in April, the
extra restriction remained in force. Thus
an accumulated credit restriction of approxi-
mately 23 p.c. per month has enabled the
Malayan Government to confine its cut
under the latest International Agreement
to an extra 7 p.c., making 67 p.c. in all.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What is the present position of the
Federal Deposit Bank (in liquidation) f
(2) Any likelihood of unpaid balance of con-
tributing shares being called up? (3) Should
the scrip be scrapped? —99B6.
(1) It is gradually liquidating its assets
and paying off its deposit certificates as they
fall due. (2) Not unless losses amounting
to over £157,500 are incurred during realisa-
tion. (3) No. Shareholders may eventually
get 20s. in the £1 in cash or other assets.
The Brisbane Permanent Building Co. has
recently taken over assets valued at £640,000
in return for its assuming the liability on
£440,000 of deposit certificates, and issuing
the Federal Co. £200,000 fully-paid £1
shares. The share consideration receivable
(the scrip is at par on the market) is equal
to 1,25. 2d. per £1 of the Federal Co.’s paid
capital.
(1) Quality and value of manganese ore
imported into Australia? Value per unit?
(2) Any iron-ore smelters here besides B.
If. Prop, and Aust. Iron and Steel? (3)
A ny mines producing manganese ore in Axis-
tralia? (4) Did W.A. Manganese Co. in-
tend, to export? —9s6B.
(1) During- 1930-31 about 432 tons, valued
at £5202. The ore was obtained mainly
from the U.K. and Dutch East Indies. Dur-
ing the first nine months of 1931-32, 241
tons, valued at £3461, were imported from
the U.K. The high value suggests that it
is specially selected ore, with a high man-
ganese dioxide content. London quotations
are 9d. to 104 d. per unit for 48 p.c. to 50
p.c. ore. (2) No. (3) Small quantities of
manganese oxide are produced in N.S.W.,
S. Aus., Westralia and Queensland. (4)
Yes, but the bottom dropped out of the
market, amongst other things.
T 1 p HRIKC AYSWERS.
Ind “-J r °T eCtS dIV - thlS year V6ry remote -
A.R.AY.: Your query forwarded to ‘‘Australio-
phile” A.A.: Black Horse Mine, Egerton (Vic.),
yielded 162,2270 z. from 314,930 tons; Egerton mine,
182,7250 z. from 540,086 tons. We have no records
of production for Sister Rose and Learmonth
T. : Books on the flotation process may be
obtained from the Tait Publishing Co., 39 Queen-
street, Melbourne. This co. can also supply articles
on the subject, which have been published in their
“Chemical, Engineering and Mining Review” during
the last few years... .M.H.: There is little on which
to pick and choose between the three offices you
"f; B- >»”■« «<* maintained’on
quite the same scale as of recent years. . . .D.J.S.:
Accounts wiff be reviewed m our next issue
Hop 8.. Proposition is far from hopeless. C'o. is
getting better recoveries than it did a few months
ago, and further improvement is expected D.S.H.:
Write J. B. Were and Son, 349 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. .. . Y'.R.E.lt’s a long-term speculation. If
you cannot afford the risk, keep out.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Wanted, Improved Methods
Dear Bulletin, —The proposal has been
made that the Government should take over
the banks’ unused deposits and lend to
farmers, pastoralists and manufacturers at
a low rate of interest. The proposal has
distinct possibilities, but only if the person
who gets the assistance shows efficiency in
methods and improvement in standards. Even
now when prices are low and costs are high
it is mostly the waster who requires the
assistance. The cocky who is getting 4001 b.
of butter per cow is not suffering; it is
liis neighbor who gets 1501 b. In almost
every case the 4001 b. man is the man who
has profited by the experiments and experi-
ence of the Agricultural Department. The
1501 b. man will often still be a 1501 b. man
even if you lend him the money free of in-
terest, unless you force him to do what
he is told or get out to the road gang. The
facts are not greatly different so far as the
manufacturer is concerned.—Yours, W.
Plug.
The Unemployment Tax
Dear Bulletin, —On the rich North Coast
of N. S. Wales there ought to be room for
many thousands of our unemployed under
infinitely better conditions than those now
obtaining on the dole. The work, however,
would not be payable under conditions now
existing. Great areas of country are slip-
ping back because of this. Even small
farmers who are making only a bare living
would employ someone in comfort if they
were assured that value would be given.
Since the primary producer sells in the open
market, a man on a farm can be paid only
what he is worth. There are thousands
now unemployed, and living under conditions
that wring the hearts of all but trades-union
secs, and some Labor politicians, who are
quite willing to accept work on those con-
ditions if allowed. It is this extra employ-
ment that must be encouraged, and a way
to secure it, since the dole cannot be wiped
out in a day, is by granting remission of
unemployment tax for extra employment.
This may even encourage those good N. S.
Wales unionists who now do their own paint-
ing and plumbing in the time that “Piddo”
allows them for rest and recreation to em-
ploy someone, if only temporarily.—Yours,
X. Cocky.
Birth Control
Dear Bulletin, —Many of us blame
modern machinery for unemployment, depres-
sion, etc. But if the population of the civil-
ised world a couple of hundred years ago
had been as great as it is to-day, what would
have been the state of the majority? I
venture to think there would have been a
much lower standard of living than prevails
at present. In fact, in spite of the much
sjnaller population, the standard of living
was much lower; Ho how can we blame
machinery? We encouraged science to save
human life, especially by fighting epidemics
and plagues which in the Middle Ages swept
away the surplus population. If science is
encouraged to thus work, we must use it
also to prevent this surplus population com-
ing into .the world. Nature’s way is to pro-
duce lavishly and destroy lavishly. It we
circumvent the destruction, we must circum-
vent also the production. China is still an
example of Nature’s way, and nobody lias
accused her of a high standard of living, in
spite of the absence of modern machinery.
—Yours, Logic.
Our National Debt
Dear Bulletin,— Admittedly, debts have
to be paid, but you cannot awaken a patri-
otic fervor to do so in the breasts of hungry
people. A man would not be deemed loyal
to his wife if she was needing five pounds’
worth of doctor and medicine, and he went
and paid out his last fiver to a man to whom
he owed money. If he did, even the man who
took the fiver would call the husband a
chump or a heartless brute. The thing is to
do one’s duty to wife and creditor. The
creditor may need money immediately, and
lie is entitled to it; but one thing is morally
certain—he can’t have the lot! By friendly
approach an arrangement can be entered
upon, and no hard feelings need restrain
negotiations. It is being done by thousands
of private citizens to-day; it is what the
Governments these people live under have
got to do, too. —Yours, J. E. B.
Produce More per Acre
Dear Bulletin, —The practice in the past
has been to get as much land as possible,
the idea being that more land means more
wealth. It often does during a boom; after-
wards it means more overhead. Farming
is ceasing to be an occupation and is about
to become a real business. In the future
success will be a matter, not of holding a
big slice of land, but of making every inch of
every acre pay to the utmost. What that
utmost is, few of us have yet any idea. A
large area means a lot of walking about. We
get paid for what we produce, not for the
amount of walking we do. —Yours, Fred the
Farmer.
Land Monopoly
Dear Bulletin, —The seed of present
Australian conditions was sown the day free-
hold titles were granted without any restric-
tion on the amount of land an individual
might hold. A growing population soon
found itself without the natural outlet.
Unemployment began, and the Governments
of the day, lacking the courage to reclaim
the land and make it available to the people,
did the only thing left —borrowed money and
created artificial employment. As we know
to our sorrow, the loan bubble that we
floated on so long has burst.
Now comes the question: How can we
regain possession of the land and give to
the people—all of the people—their birth-
right? That it is their birthright is un-
deniable. When Nature was shaping our
planet did she declare these elements for
Smyth and those for Browne, or did she
rather say: “This is my gift to the whole
human race”?
The obstacles in the way of righting our
troubles appear formidable, especially as no
ordinary means of compensation could be
found at this stage; but surely if our lead-
ers were to go to the landholders and put
the case fairly before them, means of sub-
division could be devised. While that is
being arranged our Governments should
make available to the people every suitable
acre of Crown land not required for special
purposes. Give it out to the people in suit-
able areas, on some form of leasehold tenure,
at a very low rental, and a vast number can
be “placed” immediately.—Yours etc.,
M. C. W.
Consumption and Demand
Dear Bulletin, —We have been told lately
(by the “S.M.IL”) that “the sum total of
commodities and services produced deter-
mines the sum total of purchasing power pro-
duced,” and “the purchasing power of a
community depends, not upon the wages
paid, but upon the amount of production of
the community”; that is, commodities are
purchasing power—in other words, “general
over-production is impossible.” That was
the dictum of Mill, and is still the doctrine
held by some economists, Dr. Caiman, for
example. Unfortunately, our manufacturers
have discovered that the possession of a
stock of goods is by no means synonymous
with the possession of a stock of purchas-
ing power. Over-production means, of course,
not the production of more goods that the
community wants, but more goods than can
be bought by those members who do want
them. It is not, as Major Douglas thinks,
that there is a shortage of purchasing power ;
it is that the purchasing power is in the
hands of those who have sufficient consump-
tion goods, and so will not buy any more.
In other words, the whole trouble arises
from the grossly unequal distribution of pur-
chasing power amongst consumers. To re-
duce wages and salaries does not seem to be
an intelligent way of increasing consumer
demand. —Yours etc., H. W. Parkinson,
F. It. Econ. S.
Country-town Allotments
Dear Bulletin, — I suggest that a Young
Settlers’ League get busy on the following
lines: —
(1) Appeal to property-owners who have
vacant houses in country towns to place them
at the disposal of the League at a very low-
rent. (In my travels I have seen many
houses vacant, many going to rack and
ruin, many more occupied
by tramps, and, I am sorry
to say, fences and other
parts being used for fire-
wood.)
(2) If there is half an
acre of land attached, so
much the better; if not,
land would have to be
provided, so that each
family with a home
would also have land for
use as a cottage garden.
These blocks could be all
fenced in together. Fami-
lies thus supplied might
almost keep themselves in
a very short time. The
towns selected should
have a good water supply,
or be close to a river.
A delegate from the
Maitland district at the
[J.A.P. conference recent-
ly told me he had 500
acres of excellent land
that could be used for
this purpose at very little
expense. Between the
Hawkesbury and Mait-
land (N.S.W.), particu-
larly around Lake Mac-
quarie and - Tuggerah,
hundreds of people have
made their homes during
the last year or two, and
it is for us to extend the
good work. If this
scheme were properly
managed it would become
a nursery for a new gen-
eration of farmers. —
Yours, Humphrey M.
Karl.
The Crime Against
Youth
Dear Bulletin, —
Admittedly, the super-
man-hero and gallant
highwayman set a stand-
ard too high for ordinary
mortals; but no one was
ever worse, and many
were happier and better,
for a firm belief in them
during the formative
years. Now the Ameri-
can he - man - and - crook
path is as fatally easy to
start on as the hero-and-
highwayman was difficult.
The hero’s objective
was always fame with
honor; the lie-man’s is
money, at any cost.. Yes-
terday’s major villains
always had magnificent
courage and supreme
qualities of leadership,
while the minor type
were represented as being
so despised in life and so
certain of an ignominious
death, as not to be worth
copying. To-day the
crook has a little know-
ledge of finance and a
complete absence of de-
cent instincts, while the
skulking sneak-thief is a
“lone wolf” or a “grey
sha d o w.” Yesterday’s
lover went to incredible
lengths of self-restraint
and struggle to “make
himself worthy” of his
desired one. To-day’s is
the sadist-ravisher “sheik”
or “caveman whose love
women crave,” though
why any sane woman should want a “love”
which is merely sex-mania only a Holly-
wood worshipper could explain. To girls in
the restless child-woman age a still worse
wrong has been done.
But the vilest lead ever given to romance-
following youth, and the worst menace to
society (since it is a suggestion to morons
who might never have thought of it for them-
selves, but have all the debased cowardice
to follow it eagerly for their own safety)
is the “bound and gagged” obsession which
pervades every page of American adventure
tales. Yesterday only a “dastardly ruffian”
took an unfair advantage. To-day he-man
and crook alike show the impulse of crow or
hyaena, which do not attack till the victim
is disabled.
The mischief could be undone even now if
a sane censorship made it easy to supply
youth with adventure romances (printed or
cinema) which graft the ancient ideal of a
clean soul to the modern mental-and-bodily-
freedom one. —Yours, Ellae.
The Railway That Pays
Dear Bulletin, —Having lived in the
region and been a frequent customer of the
Midland (W.A.) Railway Co., I think I
know why it pays, whereas the Government
railways are “gone a million.” In the first
place, it is not too big a concern for close
personal supervision. The manager, Poyn-
ton, seems everywhere (no Saturday off for
him) and to have every detail at his finger-
ends. Second, the men realise that their
job depends on results, and act accordingly.
Even the fettlers canvassed me for my modest
traffic. Third, in the event of non-arrival
or miscarriage of goods, the heads are acces-
sible, and mistakes are quickly rectified. The
effect of all this is that the company gets
much traffic that would elsewhere go by road.
Moreover, many farmers between the Mid-
land and Wongan Hills railways will cart
a mile or two further to send their stuff
over the Midland stretch rather than over
the track that the Government built parallel
to it in the hope of settling the company’s
hash and forcing it to sell out for a song.
The lesson seems to be the value of close
personal supervision and the folly of making
any competitive business —railroads are no
longer the monopoly they were —too big for
such supervision.—Yours etc., R. Y. R.
Too Much Secrecy
Dear Bulletin, —Democracy is a failure
because it is not getting the chance to be
anything else. The average man is quite
competent to form a sound judgment on
political matters. But the facts which are
the only foundation on which he can form
that judgment are either withheld from him
or else come to him distorted. Of course lie
generally helps to bluff himself as well. He
probably takes the same newspaper and noth-
ing el se nil bis lß e > thus feeding himself con-
tinually with one point of view. And there
are worse offenders than the newspapers,
As a start towards, letting the truth be known
let us do away with meetings in committee,
It may be impracticable to allow the public
into Cabinet and party meetings, but at least
let s have the press there and every word
listened to. Our legislators should not be
frightened of this. We elected them to do
their best for us, and if they are trying to do
?° they have nothing to be ashamed of. And,
ia society generally, let us have stiffer penal-
ties for anything savoring of perjury one
the worst crimes possible in a democracy,
bbe Bible says; Woe to the world because
offences, but woe to that man by whom
the offence cometh,” and hints at an un-
speakable doom for those who, having the
terrible responsibility of guiding the blind,
lead them astray.—Yours, T. P. Baker.
#
The Reign of the Bureaucrat
Dear Bulletin, —Australia has been
rapidly acquiring the notion that the bureau-
crat can do no wrong. That was why De
Groot, though obviously sane, was treated
by the arresting policemen as a lunatic (he
had annoyed officials, so officials considered
themselves safe in laying a wrong charge
against him) ; and it explains N. S. Wales
cx-Attorney-General Lamaro’s outrageous
statement that lawyers despise the Austra-
lian High Court (decisions of the High Court
had annoyed State officialdom, so Lamaro,
as an official, felt he had a right to insult
the Court).
The point of view was expressed by Lang’s
Education Minister Davies in reference to
the Federal Government’s perfectly legal
efforts to get the State taxation papers from
the Premier. “When I saw the Police parad-
ing,” he said at Parramatta, “I thought to
myself: ‘Come on, Mr. Lyons, there are the
men who will stand against you’ ”—meaning
that the police, being officials, could be relied
on to defy the law at the behest of some
boss-official suti as himself or the Premier,
and that they would be immune from pun-
ishment if they did so. It should now be
made clear that, in cold fact, any policeman
is liable to be gaoled if he breaks the law,
and to be sued for damages by a civilian if
he exceeds his authority.—Yours, Lex.
ONCE BITTEN, TWICE SHY.
"Queensland will have a General Election on June 11. During Labor's previous reign of 14 years
the Queensland public debt was increased from 56 to 113 millions, notwithstanding that taxation went
from £1 8s, 2d. to £5 19s. 3d. per head during the period.”
THE MISTRESS OF THE QUEENSLAND PRIVATE GUESTHOUSE: “Well, it's this way, Mr.
Forgan Smith. I’ve got nothing against you; but 17 years ago I married one of your late
brothers, and I haven’t even yet got rid of half the loafing relations be landed on me. And,
being brothers, I guess your relations arc much the same as his.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesties Graiad. ,Opeial Season
Criterion “The Barretts’of W.impple Street”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Blue Roses’’
King’s “Turn.-,-.to the Right”
State Movies and Talkies
h* 1 —— '■ ; i';:
”11 Trovatore,” most, richly melodious of alt
operas, wears well. For close on 80 'years it's
principal tunes have been strummed'by juven-
ile fingers, ground out of. barrel-organs and
declaimed at suburban concerts, but they have
not lost their power To charm’even'the’cul-
tivated ear. The Williamson co. at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, gave the opera' a, worthy
performance. Castagna made an ideal
Azqcena ; Mirassou, though' his ' mail suit
looked like the outcome of a mail order, looked
line in doublet and hose,' and invested- Maii-
rico with dignity as well as lire. Surani
would need a supporting troupe of giarits to
enable her to look like Leonora, . but she
sang the music beautifully, and as her more
important scenes were, shrouded in about
three times the usual allowance of stage
gloom her proportions • didn’t matter much.
Izal, as the Count, shone more ,in the con-
certed passages than in liis finest aria, “II
Balen,” but was always a congenial . voice
and figure; and Michele Fiore .added to: his
thousand laurels the 1001 th as Captain Fer-
rando. A basso who jean act, he is the back-
bone of the co. The, chorus was more than
ordinarily wooden. Taking their cue from
the principals, who even when, making love
addressed themselves to the audience, the
choristers and chorines gazed - glazedly
straight at the centre of the' auditorium —
even the gypsy blacksmiths, who were sup-
posed to be handling hot dron on anvils.
Giuseppe Verdi stepped in and put the
stopper on this hypnosis at the end of the
second act, when a battle v was. staged arid
the combatants simply had to take their
eyes off the patrons. to avoid poking out
their own.
A good many of the themes in “Trp-va-
tore” might be .permuted among other
characters and scenes , without affecting. the
sense, but there are not in. all operatic
literature finer expositions of musical drama
than the vigorous scene between Azueena
and her captors in Act 11, and the immortal
“Miserere” of the penultimate scene. . Sig-
nor Rossi gave the opera its. exact traditional
reading, and the orchestra’s enthusiasm in
fortissimo passages was more successfully
restrained than in some of the preceding
items in the co.’s repertoire.
In the “Rigolctto” matinee on Saturday,
Nora Hill, a Sydney girl, young and pretty,
was Gilda. Her lack of stage experience was
obvious, but she displayed vocal gifts that
greatly pleased the big audience. She was
hampered by nervousness in the first two,
acts, but gained confidence and did herself
full justice in the subsequent scenes.
* * *
The New Sydney Repertory Society has
acquired a playhouse of its; own, in a disused
church hall at 420 Kent-street, . wedged in
between a cordage warehouse and an electric-
clock-importing house. The new stand us
reasonably comfortable and the stage, large
enough to' meet the society’s requirerhents.
The Scott Alexander group celebrated the
occasion last week by giving- its patrons
five changes of bill in six evenings, begin-
ning with Murray McClaymont’s comedy
“The Good Die Young.” This play
is not brilliant, and the players did
little towards brightening it. Ethel Gab-
riel and Gwendolen Griffiths were the
outstanding performers. Tuesday and Wed-
nesday evenings were devoted to a revival of
“Black Bondage.” The cast had made a public
appearance in this piece about a month
before, and the acting was much better than
on the opening night. In “One Terrible
Night,” performed on Thursday, detective
John Killian had to find a murderer, and
his investigations led to a couple more mur-
ders. As Killian, Gilbert Unsworth was
the prompter’s echo, and the other members
of the cast, mostly youngsters, were fail-
only when they struck patches they liked
doing and had well rehearsed. Friday the
13th appropriately saw a feast of Grand
Guignols. “Cavalla of the Russian Ballet,”
well and evenly cast and acted, deserved the
applause it received. Keith Cribb, as a
financier, managed to save “Treachery.”
“Dregs” featured Norah Alexander and
Richard Matthews. The last-named’s ner-
vousness could not spoil his performance as
a kidnapper who unintentionally slays his
own child. In “The Conversion of La
Colomb” Marie Terry was slavishly Garbo-
esque. In “The Hound” Dot Whiteley made
the most of “poor Felice” ever awaiting the
return of her lover, whom her husband had
murdered.
“The Fergussons” on Saturday evening
provided the brightest show of the week.
This American comedy of family life moves
rapidly, is peppered with smart dialogue and
peopled by familiar types. Dorothy White-
ley made a hit as the mother. Helen Kent.
May Baker, Mary Fleming, Harold Farrell
and Thomas Lowe also did well.
* * ¥
Doris Fitton’s Independent Theatre Co.
broke new ground at Sydney Savoy with
a production of “The Circle of Chalk,” by
Klabund, a modernised version of a Chinese
legend. For the Independents produc-
tion Howard Carr has composed 23,musical
numbers which add to the play’s interest
and charm. The composer conducted “ the
orchestra. The play begins in an apartment
in an improper house, to which the- widowed
Mrs. Chang (Jean Lawson) conducts her
daughter, Chang-lli Tang (Marie Rosenfeld).
Chang-lli Tang’s first visitor is the” hand-,
some and romantic Prince Pao (Clarence
Murphy), who is bewitched. A love scene is
interrupted by the arrival of the might'y-Ma
(John Gould), a mandarin, rich and ruth-
less, who persecuted the girl’s father until
the latter took his own life. Ma and , Pao
bid with Tong (Neville Malley) for; the girl. '
Ma wins and carries her off to his palace,
thinking to elevate her above Yu-Bi (Freda
McGhee), his head wife. When Chang-lli
Tang bears him a son he confers with his
lawyer, Chow (Bruce Bennett Smith), as
to the best means of making her mis-,;
tress of his house. Chow happens to be
carrying on with Yu-Bi and naturally he
passes the news along to her. They decide
that the only . way to prevent Chang-Hi
Tang’s , proniotion .and to ensure" that.'they
will get sufficient cash to. elope upon is to
poison Ma.s Poisoned the gentleman is. Yu-Bi
.causes ■ Chang-Hi Tang to be'arrested for the
crime, and also for child-rstealing she .claims
the latter’s child as.her,own in.order to be-
come the sple - beneficiary under Ma’s will.
By the judicious distribution of. bribes she
is able , to secure witnesses to bolster up her
story. Chief Judge Chu. Ghu i ( Edward
Howell) gets a fat little, bag of gold. from
her and in return sees that the accused
doesn’t, get a chance. Chang-Hi* Tang 'is sen-
fenced to death along with her > brother (-James
Pratt), who rudely interrupted the trial. Just
as .the,exe.cutioner is preparing'to remove their
heads, comes the news of - the death ■ of the
aged Emperor and the accession-.to the throm;
of Prince Pao. The new-.ruler . orders the
.postponement of, all death sentences about
to be carried, out and summons judges, and
judged - to Peking. Seated on his throne in the
Imperial Palace Pao rehears the case and-is
quick to perceive that Chang-Hi Tang is
(innocent.- She and her brother are released
and the fate of the conspiratorsis left to
Chang-Hi Tang’s mercy. She. lets them off
lightly. Pao and tin' girl meet. He tells her
that ,he. is of her child. Curtain !
ihe play, which started on time and was
.not unduly prolonged by the intervals, was
.well mounted and the acting- was almost all
that could be desired.
•* ( * #
• Benno Moiseiwitsch continued to provide
Ins one-man show t 0 excellent houses at Mel-
bourne Auditorium. That .'one virtuoso can
get out oP one piano as mucli as Benno'did
in . las -playing- of -* Beethoven’s “Andante
I avon” < was an impressive tribute ‘to the
powers of the human intelligence'in its finest
flower. As a Chopin interpreter,'‘however,
the pianist is >at his best. In 12. selected
studies he made a comprehensive ■ tour of
the Polish composer’s .works, and by an
astute r arrangement the; collection acquired
almost the substantiality of a symphony
Like every; musician that ever was Moisie-
witsch > concludes his programmes with a
descent into amiable, . absurd) ’ jocular and
‘sometimes unmusical trivialities, arid like
every audience his Melbourne public asks
tor more.- - A musical joke of the first order
would be for a 'virtuoso“to .come out in
response to the umpteenth demand for an
encore, sit down and play the longest and
most difficult fugue or set of variations in
his repertoire, so that the-cncore-demanders
would have to leave in the middle or miss
their, final trams.
¥ * :&
Two more concer-
tos—'Tscha i ko wsky’s
B Flat minor and
Rack maninoff’s-
were Moiseiw r itsch’s
last musical gift to
Melbourne. Th e y
were played to , a full
liou.se at the Audi-
torium in company
with • tlie , orchestra.
Both were / displays
' of that dazzling sort
of . virtuosity which
suggests an acrobat
keeping ,14 L Indian
clubs in perpetual
motion while stand-
ing ' oh a tight rope,
balancing on >- his .
nose a suite of fur-
niture topped-by a
lady sitting on her
head waving shapely
legs in the air. The
pianist carried oft
the feat without bat-
ting an eyelid.
* * ¥
“T ur n to th e
Right,” revived from
the misty past at Melb. King’s by the company
imported to perform “Whistling in the Dark,”
was saved from the charge of complete medio-
crity only by the excellent character-acting
of Tal Ordell as the old miser who fore-
closes on Mrs. apple orchard, and
by the situation in which the sentimental
crooks, John Junior and Stapleton Kent,
rifle the miser’s safe and save the dear old
lady by paying her debt with her creditor’s
money. For the rest, the piece surpasses
in dulness even its- predecessor, and'that’s
saying something. It contains: more time-
honored appeals to the sentimentality of the
weak-minded than the worst of the recent
election manifestoes. The opening evening
attracted the weeniest audience this Show-
man lias seen in all his theatregoing experi-
ence. The hero with the mother complex was
in the hands of Cecil Scott, Thring’s “Sen-
timental Bloke,” an actor who' looks ,as ill
at ease out of celluloid ,as if he had found
himself in Collins-street in his undergarments.
There is some naturalness about Lois Green
and Agnes Doyle, and the imported company
knows its lines well.
¥ # #
“Blue Roses” seems out for as long an
innings at Melb. Royal as it enjoyed in Syd-
ney, although the success of the first night
was partly due to the fact that it was
boatracc night, when even a lecture on the
Second Coming is liable to be stormed by
pleasure-seekers. If the singing of Cyril
Ritchard and Madge Elliott is not far re-
moved from twittering, their dancing fulfils
all the requirements of people who like that
sort of dancing; and there is. nearly 12 feet
of romantic lover in the pair- of them. More-
over, Ritchard is a refreshing variation on
the orthodox lover of musicomedy, inasmuch
as he can fool as well exude sentiment The
flying feet of the ballet are also,, reinforced
by Frank Leighton, Leo Frariklyn and almost
everybody else in the cast except Vivian
Edwards. The librettist is suspected of hav-
ing a stolen plot in his-possession, but the
evidence is ' not sufficient "to ' justify a con-
viction. No- charge of musical ambitions can
be laid against the author of the ditties,
though “Let’s Be* Sentimental” is, likely to
be whistled/by the. morning .milkboy unless
the Federal ,Government brings down an over-
riding Act about it. ...
* # *
The return of that talented. Australian
comedian Ed. E. Ford would have kept Melb.
liv. well populated even if the rest of the
bill were not so well deserving of its title
of “all-star vaudeville.’’ Hector St. Clair,
Minnie Love, Stan Foley and George Moon
help to keep the bowl of merriment over-,
running,, and Arline . Paterson— is a - young
dancer, whose graceful .movement's stick .in
the memory. , , !
\ ". * " * * v •
; After a sliort and painful sojourn (at’ Mel-
jbourne King’s, “Whistling,’in the. Dark’’, S was
Listed as a.comedytit had claims
to being a mystery play, .'the', mystery, being
why the, Firm imported it. ',
• - • j - ' •
\ “The Good Companions,” who are Mar-
garet ‘ Kerr, Mary Pickford (not ~the one)
arid i Alan Dewar, have' beCn providing some
genteel entertainment at Melbourne's' Kelvih
Hall. “A Japanese' Sermon,”, purporting
to be .a replica - of a Nipponese temple ser-
vice, was> cleverly done, though it was prob-
ably no -more like the real thing,'.thana
Japanese attempt'to show Archbishop Head
at work. The rest of the amusing programme
was - on the lines -of the Misses Raynor’s
enterprise,i the Theatre of Youth,, including
a preponderance.' of A. A. Milne’s . old-
maidenly rhymes for kids. -
• * * H- -r: - ’ • , -r
The Japanese fleet being in port, it was
decided by somebody or other fin ( Melbourne
to give officers and men the opportunity.' of
sampling the true culture of the iQueeir 'City
of the Southern Hemisphere.: They were
invited - to a moving-picture ; palace -to. see
“Shanghai Express,”' a rubbishy American
.production - telling a' lot' of lies, about. China',
arid about . white men and women in China,
with - Marlene; -Dietrich, a vulgar Holly-
wooden’.vamp, in the leading role. i - '
. • '-r: n * * * -- -
„ Galli-Curei’s crystal,notes will be put into
circulation at Melbourne-Town Hall on-May
28, and at stated evenings,^thereafter.. Dame
Sybil Thorndike will , open f liei\-season -in
Shaw’s “Saint Joan” on .Tune 4.' ■
* * .y.. - ...
Honors went mostly to.'.-the ladies in.
Adelaide Repertory’s- short-play - evening
(crowded to the doors).-- Dunsany’s -lost-
hat triflgy. for , men 'only,*'-was ’taken -top
slowly; arid a -he-and-she quarrel • was? old-
fashioned; - -Interest ..grew with St. ’John
Ervine’s' “Progress,”, mainly a fierce denun-
ciation > of *war by a heartbroken ■ mother
■( Mimi Mattin). And ’“The Bfide,” I by
Gertrude Jennings, is a riot«recommended
tbiall,.,amateur ,cos. This story of. a;wed-
ding dress, missing at the '‘last moment should
be foolproof. 1 ’ It' was played by six women,
the bride (Miss .Ralph) . and the mother
.i,Elizabeth Campbell) having' the’ biggest
chances. . ' . .
’
The Perth Repertory Club held sway for
two nights in the Assembly Hall with a bunch
“THE BARRETTS OF WIMPOLE-STREET.”
Standing (left to right): Bellenden Clarke, John Wood Mary
Macgregor Richard Fair, Barry K. Barnes, Rath. Goodall
and Gabriel Toyne.
Seated: Flush and Margaret Rawlings.
of onc-acters. In “Uncle .Timmy” honors
went to .Tames Ottaway for his character
study of the name part. Rupert Brooke's
Lithuania” provided melodrama for
iVlcdlie Learmonth and Mrs. Treadgold. In
Double Demon” there were lines for 11 giris
and one man. Dorothy Mark and Phil
Shappere made the most of “The Chequer
Board,” a playlet inspired by Omar Khayyam,
which was written and produced by Vernon
. Lyall.
The Palette,
All the pictures that remained in Tom
Roberts’s studio at Kallista at his death
have been hung at the Pine Arts, Melbourne.
1 here are not many of them—Roberts pro-
duced little of recent years—but they are
representative of all branches- of his art.
There is a large picture, of a cow muster,
showing Ins illustrative side; an old portrait
of Arthur Streeton when Streeton’s locks were
raven and he wore a bronze beard; and an
academic nude. These are not the painter
at his best. The real Roberts is to be found
m the little transcripts from Nature in her
gentlest moods. They lack great force, but
they strike present writer as genuinely felt
and, therefore, entirely individual. In' look-
ing at them one is able to forget the paint
and think of the actual scene. There are
more ambitious paintings of the artist in
every big gallery, but none so worthy as
these that were left on their author’s hands.
M ill Ashton has been to Brittany, Corn-
wall and Paris, and what he has seen there
is now on view in the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney. It must have been a hard winter,
for a cold breeze blows through most of these
pictures; the light is hard and the skies
speak of coming snow. Why Australian
artists should go to Concarneau and St. .Ives
to -paint waterside scenes is one of thosb
things no' fellow who has seen Australia can
understand. The best fish that came to
net abroad was a glance along the
Rue des Ramparts, Concarneau. There are.
however,, little streets much more pictorial
within coo-e.e -of the Macquarie Galleries.
Bqst in,.accord with the somewhat sombre
mood in -which 1 most of these pictures seem
to haves been painted are “Grey Day St
Ives”; and “Port Neuf, Paris.” Most effec-
tive,, .because simplest, of the fishing-boat
scenes is “Little Harbor, Concarneau,” which
is almost as pretty as Sydney’s Rushcutter
Bay. _ A glimpse of the interior of a church
in Brittany discloses that French architects,
•like--Nature, abhor straight lines.
Blamire Young has 40 paintings at the
Grosv_enor-Gallery, Sydney. All those not
.previously .shown in public are small, and
all are characteristic. That is to say, they
look like ‘ attempts to remember something
seeh. in a dream. ( Some of the dreams must
have been gorgeous,' but there are hiatuses
in'.the recollection. Occasionally there are
exhibitions of [ the delicate and beautiful
draughtsmanship of. the Japanese decorators
whose 'style. 1 Air. ,Young has partially appro-
priated, but this doesn't extend to the figure
studies, in which , the drawing is, apparently
purposely, clumsy. The painter’s affection
for. heavy washes "of ultramarine as a sym-
bol for skies arid distances make this critic
wish that the, detestable pigment could be
placed' on the list of prohibited imports.
. -A.de Chimay, at the reopened New Gal-
lery, Mplboiirn.e,j is , a mixture of ferocious
.modernist and artless child. He hurls slabs of
the primary colors at a canvas and then stops
short, delighted with the result, which is
often quite nice from the point of view of
color. Sometimes .lie proceeds to' work his
patches up, ahd the more he works on them
the less like .Nature they look.
An : outbreak of • “proletarian” pictures in
water-color by Comrade Jack Maughan at
the Workers’ Art Club, Melbourne, threatens
to get the.maw in the street more muddled
■than ever:a,s l to what constitutes art. Accord-,
ing-to-the : Communist theorists, all art pre-
vious-to the proletarian is not art at all.
Thus a-picture.of a Russian peasant toiling
•in capitalist chains is art, while a realistic
portrait of,a king'by Velasquez is only class
art. Yet, as a painter, Velasquez was as
.disrespectful' to - King Phillip as any Bol-
shevik.- IJe painted .the dull, horsey coun-
tenance with as little regard for his Royal
patron’s, feelings-as if he were a jamtin. He
would have painted Stalin with an equal dis-
regard -for romantic proletarian prejudices.
Van Dyck was a 'class artist, if you like.
He painted kings so that they looked like
fhe' romantic idea of kings, and for that
reason'liis pictures were inferior. The pro-
letarian 1 artist would no doubt paint Stalin,
loo® like the Saviour of mankind. Comrade
Maughan’s' work is not art at all; it is car
tooning—some P'f,’it . quite good cartooning.
The only difference between it and the work
of ; a - , bourgeois cartoonist is in its political
attitude. ■ Comrade Maughan shows capital-
ists, archbishops and other enemies of the
masses in a very-unfavorable light. A bour-
geois cartoonist would no doubt make them
•look 'likei angels'.of'light. The artist who
deserves to be called great, would depict both
capitalist'..and worker as they really are.
■Such a- painter is likely to he as rare in
-proletarian circles as anywhere else.
i Stephanie ? Taylor, • who is a Guide Lec-
turer-at the National Gallery, has been up
-'for'-inspection"in -'the '■practice of her art at
the Newman Galleries, Melbourne. Respect-
able mediocrity is attained. What is sub-
stantial in her work she probably owes to
the instruction of her one-time teacher Max
Meldrum. When she indulges in flights of
fancy she produces such ineffective illustra-
tion as “The Vision of the Cenotaph.”
•- The autumn show of S.A. Society of Arts
makes a feature, of flower-pieces. Miss Bux-
•fottV: roses compete briskly With • George
Whirinen’s ; but'the latter' gets' the society’s
prize with a' fine-study of marigolds,, second
; award : going - to 1 Bone’s; still-life ? Of onions
(with, accessories).' 'Hans Heysen'did" The
judging.' * Leslie 'Wilkie has:a head of David
-U-naipon, S.A.’s most 1 cultured native; The
Art Gallery of Adelaide bought only a black
and white, by Goodhart, of the power-
station at Broken Hill.
Poverty Point
“K. 8.”: Church and stage fraternised at
Mosman (Sydney) kirk on Sunday night,
when Padre Macdonald preached on the reli-
gion of the Brownings. Margaret Rawlings
read passages of “Paradise Lost” and recited
Elizabeth Barrett’s poem, “He Giveth His
Beloved Sleep.” Husband Toyne read the
lessons. Miss Rawlings is a clergyman’s
daughter, her father being a missionary in
Japan, and Gabriel Toyne used to read the
lessons daily at his public school in the Cold
Country, so they felt quite at home.
“Cauboy” : Somebody ought to start a sub-
scription to enable imported virtuosi to buy
some additions to their libraries of musical
literature. During his altercations with the
piano at Melbourne Auditorium, Mpiseiwitscb
played the “Appassionata” and “Moonlight”
sonatas and the “Andante Favori” of Bee-
.. thoven.; also some Bach. He has , lots and
lots of Chopin. His copy of Debussy’s “Water-
logged Cathedral” is probably in tatters
by now, arid his Wagner-Liszt “Isolde’s Lie-
bestod” in such a state that he must
have difficulty in reading the notes,
though he may have them so lodged in his
head that nothing short of a dyna-
mite explosion would get them out. Surely
when he played Schumann’s “Carneval,”
which has as much unity as a patchwork
quilt, he felt as bored as did many of
the audience. The season provided some
beautiful music, beautifully played, but no
more fresh musical experience than can be
got by listening to the orchestra at a big-
picture palace. Edward Goll has given us
twice as much variety.
“Craiser”; Sybil Thorndike’s proposed
repertoire for her Australian season is a
queer mixture. Shaw’s “St. Joan” and
“Captain Brassbound’s Conversion” are in
the curious company of such an outmoded
costume play as “Milestones.” “Macbeth”
looks equally ill at ease alongside “The Taming
of the Shrew,” theatrically effective as that
play is. “Advertising April” and “Madame
Plays Nap” are also mentioned, but there is
no promise that the Dame will be seen in her
great rfdes as Hecuba in “The Trojan
Women” and other characters of Greek
tragedy, nor of the Grand Guignol horrors
in which she frightened London into looking
under its bed for a twelvemonth.
“Cauboy”; According to the Firm’s stage-
notes, Melbourne saw . radio . made use
of on the stage for the first time in “Whist-
ling in the Dark.” Frank Clewlow used it
several years ago at the Playhouse in “Col-
lapse,” where a mysterious voice announced
the forthcoming end of the world via a
receiving set.


MMI
H
m
saw
m
*
mimi
1
;
.
I
m
m
HI
i
II
I
'
M
►
H
■
mm
IEI
wm
U
■
■
\
'
N
. | ■
Hi
■
•%
1
m
v
4
&
lipfcc
"a
■
Picture of the Favourite
u/ii|TE Horse
SCOTCH WHISKY
Real old Scotch
in various sizes
of Bottles and
handy Flasks.
3
fk£pte m
W-Nsky
CCLIAP
SSS
i
®i
■■
■V.-,
r uk !
<>Ul\d
Wh so
Mt
\tts3saS
| »*»',; tr,'
I jwfu' Must


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL ......... 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST .
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
■
n».ig
Uinf
mi
rnw
1 wh
Plum Razor Guardi
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and ?in. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 2/9 each, post free.
&he PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case—•
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
AI.L POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—fin. and fin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Wild West”: The following yarn, told
to me by a hardened old sheep cocky in W.A.,
is reminiscent of Borgia at his best. Having
discoyered that a dingo had invaded the
sanctity of his paddocks, he wasted about a
month in trying all the known remedies.
Towards the end of this period, when all
liope had been abandoned, and the dingo had
begun to kill apparently just for the fun of
the thing, the old chap happened quite by
accident on his quarry’s lair. The killer was
not at home, but three pups were coiled up
comfortably in the nest. Now a lesser man
would have dispatched these potential
marauders eftsoons. Not so my friend, who
contented himself with smearing the little
chaps with a mixture of dripping and
strychnine. The end of the story is con-
cerned with a mother’s well-known pride
in the personal appearance of her offspring.
* * * *
“Der Jong” : Tears came to my eyes when
I read in a Sydney evening paper of how a
herd of elephants in East Africa had ten-
derly carried into the forest the body of a
rhinoceros slain by a big-game shooter, and
buried it. I had a very similar experience
many years ago when engaged in farming
on the upper waters of the Nile in Uganda,
just opposite Belgian Congo territory. One
morning the boys reported that there was
an elephant in one of my mealic fields. Tak-
ing a rifle I went down and' saw an
aged elephant, obviously of the Indian type.
On seeing me, much to my surprise, he
salaamed with his trunk, and on my address-
ing him in Hindustani burst into tears. It
was evident that he was extremely old and
infirm—and had no tusks worth taking either
—so I gave orders he was not to be dis-
turbed. Next morning, hearing that the
field was full of elephants, I went down un-
armed. The new arrivals, obviously Afri-
cans, regarded me steadfastly while my
excited Indian friend, pointing his trunk in
my direction, was evidently making his last
will and testament. When the end came the
others bore the corpse into the forest, arid
after burial trumpeted the Last Post over
it and withdrew. A few mornings later I
was astonished to find an immense heap of
tusks piled up in front of my rondeval. I
was congratulating myself on the gratitude
of elephants when the District Commissioner
turned up and began to make nasty noises.
In spite of my story, corroborated by all my
boys save one I sjamboked later, he insisted
I had poached the stuff from Belgian terri-
tory over the river. In the end he confis-
cated the lot, telling me I was lucky not
to be handed over to the tender mercies of
the Belgians. Few realise the hardships of
the East African pioneer’s lot.
* * * *
“Dr. Nil”: I was strolling about on the
Murray bank last Sunday, at a township
that was once a principal jumping-off place,
but where, now, most of the river steamboats
are tied up. One of the smaller ones had a
gang-plank out, and I stepped aboard to look
at the engines. I was making a few inter-
esting discoveries when I got a hail from
ALL CONVENIENCES.
“Gracious! I’ve forgotten the glasses!"
“Don’t you worry, Missus — there’s a pannikin at the tank."
anotlier, and bigger, boat, and saw a large
man making towards me. As he passed the
starboard sponson of his own craft he
stooped and opened and shut the lid of a tin
biscuit-box. Then he came aboard the craft
I was on, calling “Hey! What are you doing
on the boat?” I said I was looking at the
ALL HUSBANDS ARE UNSATISFACTORY.
CAP'N: “But why don’t ’ee want ’ave ’im for mate? Whd’s wrong with ’un?”
WILLIAM JOHN: “He baint a proper man, for one thing, Cap'n. His wife don’t ’ave
good word to say for ’n.”
CAP'M: “Well, no more ’ave mine, William John; no more ’ave any man’s."
engine. “But what are you doin’ on it?’’
“Oh, just having a look round,” I said. “Look
round what for?” he asked. I replied that
I was interested in engines. - He stared hard
at me for a few seconds; then he took his
hands from behind his back and pushed a
six-foot snake close up to my face, and said:
“P’raps you are interested in that, too!”
The snake was coiled round his arm, and
waved its head to and fro, a few inches from
my nose, flickering its tongue at me. The
bank was two yards away, and muddy and
slippery—and I didn’t know how deep the
Murray was, just there. So I looked' at
the snake, and then at the man, and asked
him what sort of snake it was. He replied,
“Tiger!”—which it wasn’t. After a few
more remarks as to the deadliness of that
sort of snake he said. “But what are yer
doin’ on the boat—an’ who are yer?” I
explained that I was taking the local
doctor’s place for a while. Then lie broke
in with “Oh! —doctor '.'That’s all right! Come
an’ ave a look round any time you like, and
stay as long as you like, and go where you
like. That’s aIF right; come an’ ’ave a look
around now and see the barge we’re
repairin’.” When I excused myself on
account of the imminence of luncheon ho
repeated that I must be sure and come an’
look around as long as I liked and then held
the snake out to me—diffidently, this time—
and asked : “Sure yer wouldn’t like to 'ave
the snake?” I said that I had no accommo-
dation for it. thanking him all the same, and
then again inquired what sort of snake it
was. “Carpet,” he said. Which it was.
* * *
“C Coral”- On most of flm islands mi
o. oorai on most ot the islands on
Toires Strait births seem to go in seasons
in the matter of sex. For instance, taking
the register of one island of about 350 people
during the last few years, I notice that
during the nor’-west monsoon—from the end
of November to April—almost all the infants
born are female, while when the sou’-easters
blow, they are nearly all males. I have
checked up other islands, with the same
result. It would seem that a couple desiring
a family of fine hefty lads have simply to pay
attention to the calendar. The islander has
an explanation. He says that if a woman
wishes to have a boy she eats one particular
kind of shellfish. If the preference is
for a girl, she places another variety on the
menu.. Possibly the shellfish are affected by
the winds, but that’s out of my depth.
“Balla-Balla”: Mrs. Drake-Brockman, in
her story “Blue North,” made a nor’-west
willy-willy come with a rush —“as though
the doors of some gigantic furnace had been
thrown open.’ In my experience, the willy-
willy has come this way. For a few days
beforehand the weather is hot and oppres-
sive, with a steadily falling barometer. Then
with a falling temperature the wind gradu-
ally rises until in about 12 hours it reaches
hurricane force. If you happen to be in the
direct track of one of these storms the most
weird and uncanny part is the calm that
prevails as the centre passes over, followed by
a repetition of the first hurricane phase, with
the direction of the wind reversed. The most
disastrous blow on record occurred in March,
1912, when the Koombana put to sea from
Port Hedland rather than take a chance
in that apology for a harbor, and was lost
with a complement of 160. For a few days
the Bullara was also supposed to be lost,
but it eventually turned up at Port Sampson,
minus its boats, deck-fittings and funnel,
The Crown of England, a large sailing-ship
loading copper ore at Balla-Balla, was
smashed to fragments on Depucli Island, and
16 of its crew perished. The Concordia,
another sailer, loaded with 3000 tons of ore.
was driven on to the only strip of sandy
beach on the same island, but although :i
became a total wreck no lives were lost,
No official records exist, but the wind was
supposed to have reached 200 m.p.h., and
30 inches of rain fell in 24 hours,
* * * *
“Dispersion”: The case of a Sydney City
„ , , . . „„„
Council employee who was persistently cov-
ered by a shifting sandslip, yet managed to
survive until his mates at last extricated him
from his treacherous surroundings, lias
attracted attention. He kept life in him only
by breathing through a rubber tube with one
end in his mouth and the other above the
surface - The dod ge is a very old abo. one.
When the N q b i ack police were exacting
“reparations” for murdered Palmer River
miners or for speared cattle belonging to
the squatters—the reparation was the same
in both cases—it was the usual thing when
a “dispersing” force burst on the offenders
—who always camped by one of the many
lagoons—for the latter to take to the
water. There, provided with hollow reeds
or lily stems, they remained under water
breathing through the tubes until their per-
secutors had gone. As a rule, the lagoons
were full of crocodiles, and though their
pursuers knew they were in the water under
the lilypads somewhere, they rarely risked
following thc chase up. The crocodiles took
toll of the refugees, of course, but black
brother generally preferred their tender
mercies to those of the black police.
LIL OR ME?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve just been thinkin’ over things an’ won-
derin’ wliat’s in store;
For girlhood days are far behind—l’m nearin’
twenty-four.
There’s lots of chaps who’ll flirt with me,
but instinct always tells
That none of them mean anything that ends
with weddin’ bells.
But Jim comes over twice a week, he hardly
ever fails,
And ’tisn’t likely it’s to hear Dad’s oft-
repeated tales.
There’s more than that, behind it all, it's
very plain to see.
But who is it he fancies most, me sister
Lil or me?
He owns the farm adjoinin’ ours; I’ve known
him all me life.
It’s only lately crossed me mind he’s lookin’
for a wife.
A friend who’d never let you down, I’ve
always reckoned him,
But as a lover —well, to me, old Jim has
just been Jim.
Yet latterly I’ve found meself indulgin’
foolish dreams:
His house repainted all in cream, with other
color schemes;
Red curtains in the dinin’-room, or pink,
perhaps, until
I come to earth an’ realise he might be after
Lil.
An’ if he’s kissed me now and then, how
much do kisses spell?
I haven’t got a shade of doubt he kisses Lil
as well.
He’s always saying that I stand above all
other cooks;
But then I’ve heard he’ll talk for hours
about me sister’s looks.
An’ I suppose, for all me skill with grid an’
frying-pan,
Lil’s ripplin’ hair an’ dreamy eyes appeal
more to a man.
But still it stays a riddle yet; he only holds
the key:
Who’ll darn his socks an’ mend his shirts,
me sister Lil or me?
victokia.
ELLENVALE.


Taxation and the
Investor.
Consols and other securities com-
pared. The Exchange tangle from
Investors' point of view.
These and many subjects
of vital interest are dis-
cussed in the May issue of
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY.”
NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES-
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian
Paid-up Capital..
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability .. ..
Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
£8,780,000
6,150,000
8,780,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
£23,710,000
.. £90,111,427
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY EANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE : 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital . . • • • • £1,250,000
Reserve Fund . . .. . . • • 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London .Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world. . T j
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes,
your fancy,' write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
“Worsted Spur” : “Ex-Cavalryman” seems
to be getting deeper into the mire (B.
4/5/’32). Leaving other objects of his strafe
aside, I persist in what he calls “my peculiar
notion” that a horse cannot be “lifted” over
a jump. Getting a horse over a jump
in a manege is done by the “aids ’
and persuading him by these that he must
do his job. The idea, so prevalent among
many horsemen who should know better, that
a man sitting in the saddle can actually
“lift” the thing he is sitting on over any-
thing is too obviously absurd for words.
I not only know Fillis’s book, but met
that worthy long ago in South Africa, when
he was head of one of the best travelling
circuses in the world. Fillis used to
say that he was a Cape Dutchman —“Ex-C.”
says he was French. He had certainly spent
some time in India and east of that.
“Curragh” : As a survivor of both Lancer
and Hussar riding schools, may I butt in to
tell “Kell B.” (B’ 16/3/’32) that the length
of stirrup doesn’t matter a hoot? What the
British cavalry does insist on is grip. Ser-
HIS PERSPECTIVE.
TOURIST: “A nice, quiet spot!
OLDEST INHABITANT: " Thankee, sir; I’ll are one with 'ce."
geant-majors are not necessarily sadists
because they keep recruits trotting round
and round the riding school, for 20 minutes
at a time, with folded arms and stirrups
crossed over the pommel. Length of stirrup
depends on the build more than the height of
the rider. Once a man is comfortable, well,
as the old sweats used to say, “Keep yer
’eels and yer ’ands down and yer ’cad and
yer ’eart up.”
“Tenrag”: Maoriland’s oldest totara
(Podocarpus t.) grows on the Denniston
station, in Otago. It is 26 feet in circum-
ference, four feet from the base, and the
roots stretch over the ground for dozens of
yards. It is estimated that this chap is
1500 years old, and w T as quite a hefty size
when King Arthur sent to the contemporary
Horderns’ for that Round Table.
* * * V
“Murrungurry” : The last abo. war on the
Richmond River (N.S.W.) was between the
upper and lower river blacks. 1 hey were
weeks making boomerangs for the shindy,
and at several places we came upon dumps
where the weapons were stacked
in heaps like drying shingles. Be-
sides the common hunting boom-
erang, the munitions ranged from
comebacks to heavy wooden
swords and null as. For armor-
plating the knobby ends of the
latter, hobnails were extracted
from all the old bluchcr boots
that could be found. The armies
mobilised on a midway plain.
There was no surprise attack in
these wars; the time for com-
mencing hostilities and the place
of the battle were arranged by
the opposing leaders as between
gentlemen. But just as they had
lined up, and were hurling abuse
and insults at one another pre-
paratory to hurling spears and
boomerangs, the Casino police
rode down between the bristling
armament. Early next morning
we saw hundreds of warriors
streaming up the river, and I
asked an old batman how the war
ended. “No war,” he said, dis-
appointed. “Policeman tell ’em
suppose they fight he put them in
gaol. So one army call t’other
army dognose, then all about
pack up boomerang an’ go home.
You want to buy urn boomerang
“Kuku” : That statement that tobacco was
found growing in Maoriland when the first
pakehas came, though the Maoris did not
know what it was or how to use it (B.
4/5/’32), is uncommonly interesting. But if,
as “Tano Fama” suggests, the weed was intro-
duced by Spanish voyagers, they would cer-
tainly have taught the natives how to use
it. It is possible that the plant drifted
from some of the island groups of the
Western Pacific, and notably from the main
island of New Guinea, where it is indigenous
on the inland ranges. On the backbone of
Papua especially some very good native-grown
leaf is to be found, and even with primitive
native-curing methods is well worth smok-
ing. The mountain tribes of the main range
seem to have been acquainted with the use
of tobacco from time immemorial. On the
coast country it was not known, the chewing
of the areca-nut, better known as betel, tak-
ing its place. Needless to say, the dreadful
“trade” tobacco of the white man has altered
all that.
“Shugger”: The few people who have
watched lyrebirds in their natural haunts
differ as to which species is the better
mimic—the “Lyre-tail Menura” or the
“Albert Menura.” I have had the oppor-
tunity of studying both species over several
months in Lyrebird Valley, newly named and
located in the Lamington National Park,
MacPherson Range, and there is no doubt
that the plainer Albert Menura is by far
the better mimic. In Lyrebird Valley it is
ALL DOGS BEING BORN EQUAL.
POM, LADY: “Get away, you mong!”
OTHER LADY: “Stay where you are , Towser! Ye’v' got as much right in the shop
as any other dorg.”
no’ unusual experience to hear lyrebirds imi-
tate the barking of several dogs at once, fol-
lowed perhaps by a running melody of varied
Australian bird calls. Both species have
natural calls. One is a booming “Whoof,
whoof!” which may be heard two miles
away; another is a sharp cry of alarm;
more remarkable still is a rapid “Whiz-
whiz-whiz,” generally given by the Albert
Menura in a manner which proves it to be a
thorough ventriloquist. Only a few days ago
on the top of Mt. Wanungra, Lamington
National Park, a pair of the Albert Menura
species gave a perfect imitation of a broody
hen with chickens. The nearest place handy
where chooks are kept is three miles away
and 4000 ft. below in Limpinwood Valley.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: After attending the
Mormon hui held at Nuhaka (MX.), I can
well understand why the
Utah religion has such a
large native following.
At the principal Sabbath
service quite half the
large congregation lay
back or hung forward
and slept (even snored)
while pious orations and
prayers were being deli-
vered. Others chatted
among themselves, and
no one in authority seem-
ed the least perturbed,
nor was there any dis-
approbation of the row
kicked up by over 100
youngsters outside, play-
ing “rats and rabbits” or
some equally noisy game.
Right at the door of this
place of worship was a
gaily-decorated stall, bear-
ing the banner of the
Mormon church, and do-
ing a roaring trade in
lollies, ices, pork pies and
other delicacies dear to
the heart of Henare.
Mormons are supposed to
fast from Saturday even-
ing until 4 p.m. on Sun-
day, but, judging by the
business done at this stall and several others,
pies and sandwiches don’t count as victuals.
* * * *
“Traveller”: Though retiring by nature,
the long-tailed goanna, popularly known as
the “racehorse,” will show fight if encoun-
tered in the vicinity of its nest. The other
day I came on a half-caste boundary-rider who
had bailed up one of these giant lizards and
was teasing it with a stock-whip from the
safety of the saddle. The object of his atten-
tions was wheeling round in furious circles,
dodging the lash, its tongue whipping
in and out like a fiddler’s bow, its whole
aspect one of concentrated fury. This was
continued for a few moments. Then, just
when the boss was stepping forward to inter-
fere, the goanna suddenly stopped describing
circles and stood still with its back slightly
arched, regarding its tormentor as though
considering a cliange of gear. The half-
caste, probably a little wearied with his
exertions and influenced by the boss's atti-
tude, ceased fire. Then like a flash the
goanna swept forward and up the horse’s
leg to the pommel of the saddle, whereat the
horse turned and crashed through a clump
of paper-barks, the rider being removed from
the saddle in the process. One would like
to record that this half-caste was good to
goannas ever afterwards, but unfortunately
this is impossible. When we found him he
was dead, his head having been smashed
against an overhanging bough.
:j: ❖
“R.V.K.” : “Larrapinta’s” experiences (B.
20/4/’32) with an octopus in S.A. don’t tally
with mine in Vie. He ridicules the belief
that the tentacles of the octopus are tough,
and that they can inflict lasting injury. While
I was crayfishing at low tide on the rocks
at Point Roadknight, a small octopus, hav-
ing chased two large reddish crabs over the
side of a deep pool, attached itself to my
landing-net. I slashed at its tentacles with
a sharp clasp-knife. They were as tough as
rawhide. In the process another tentacle
attached itself to my wrist. It left a series
of nasty red marks which returned each year
for three years in the form of a running sore.
* * *
“Mako”: For many years Maorilanders.
particularly up north, have had to make :>
pilgrimage to the outlying isles in tbfc
Ilauraki Gulf to hear the song of the bellbird,
tne Maori mako-maho. Recently numbers
of the singers have been repatriated to the
mainland. They are reported to be thriving,
so in due time the bush should again provide
what Captain Cook asserted was one of the
delights of his MX. cruise, “the bird-songs at
dawn, like the chiming of hundreds of tiny
bells.”
* * * *
“Double Express”: It. is good to read (B.
4/5/’32) that the Canadian moose is on the
increase in southern Maoriland. Thick
forest and swamp are essential for the well
being of the big fellow, and he should find
all he wants in that locality. For the rest,
he is a wary but uninteresting beast to stalk
in his solitudes, and is usually bagged by
imitating the call of a lady moose. There is a
lot of original sin about a moose. By the way,
can the writer of that par. tell me how the
tliar is getting on in Maoriland? Specimens
of this very rare Nepaulese jungle antelope
—some insist he is as much a bison as an
antelope—were liberated in the mountains
of the South Island some years ago. A thar
i head is much prized by shikaris, and the
news that the shy beast has been established
. in MX. would certainly swell the tourist
■ bookings.
MATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There’s mates an’ mates,” said Junee Joe.
“I’ve got no end of ’em in mind.
The bloke who suits you all the time is pretty
difficult to find.
An’ even if you strike that sort, as now an’
then mayhap you do,
You can’t be sure of suitin’ him the way that
he is suitin’ you.
“Two chaps that never see another human
face for days an’ days,
They gotter make allowances for one
‘another's little ways.
They may be right as rain at heart, good-
tempered, too —and mostly are —
But when there’s only two of you a trifle’s
apt to grate and jar.
“I’ve had more mates than most,” said Joe,
“from no account right up to good,
An’ got along with most of ’em, I s'pose, as
well as most chaps would;
I had to bear a lot .1 didn’t like from some,
but then, you see,
I always, kept in mind there might be things
they didn’t like in me.
“You gotter make allowances, to give an’
take,” said Junee Joe.
“x>ut save me from two kinds of mates —and
which is deadlier I d.unno:
The bloke who torks an’ torlcs until you
sicken of his yap an’ yelp,
Or him that never says a word or sentence
more than he can help.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


AGENCIES
A valuable feature of the Commonwealth Savings Bank service
is the establishment of agencies in practically all Post Offices
in Australia, as well as in many business houses. Altogether
there are nearly 5000 of these agencies in the Commonwealth,
from which it will be readily seen that the Bank’s service is
extended wherever there is population.
In every city, town and district, therefore, Savings Bank
facilities are available to men, women and children, for the
Savings Account may be used by all.
Wherever you may live, wherever you may travel within the
Commonwealth, you can utilise the Savings Account for your
profit and convenience.
(fanoiiwealtb Savings Bank of Australia
{Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Send Your lyres to “Southern Cross” for Retreading
We send C.O.D. to any part of N.S.W.
FLAT RATE RETREADING.
All car sizes
17/6
All car sizes
(With supertough Rubber Retreads with
popular diamond pattern for long life and wear.)
22/6
All truck sizes
30/
Also full ' stocks of new tyres and tubes, also J. 0.8. tyres.
Send them along to-day. Write or ’phone.
’PHONE 81110. ’PHONE 81110.
SOUTHERN CROSS TYRES, LTD.,
75 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
“The Government h;is directed the Sydney police
to concentrate on disbanding the New Guard.”
And a little Childs shall lead them.
FEELINGS.
“The S.M.: ‘What were you doing?’ ‘The wife
said she felt like a bottle of beer, and I went to
get one.’ ” — Police-court report.
No doubt it is very nice to feel like a
bottle of beer. I have felt like a bottle of
champagne. Unfortunately the next morning
I felt like mud. I have friends who occa-
sionally tell me they feel like u plate of
oysters. They usually prove it by being hard-
shelled about paying. The ghastliest feeling
I ever heard admitted to was that of a
friend who won some money and said: “I
feel like paying niy income tax.” Thank
God I have never felt so demented as to
feel like that.
P.
* #
“The Communist peril is costing us thousands
yearly.” —Vie speaker._
These being our over-Red exes.
THE IMPORTANCE OF DIAGNOSIS.
WEALTHY PATIENT (on a friendly visit ): “You doctors all treat me
for deafness, but if I was a poor man ye wouldn't find any-
thing wrong . with my hearing—not one o’ you!”
OLD MEDICAL FRIEND : “Quite right—even in our backward profession,
circumstances alter cases.”
It is Reve-nue South Wales to Lyons.
* V
FLASHES OF IRONY.
“Easy” Payments.
“Bargain” Sales.
“Safety” Zones.
“Reproductive” Works.
Political “Economy.”
“Working” Classes.
The Lang “Plan.”
The State “Governor.”
T. P.
V
“Society Women Ride in Evening Dress.”
Bare-back, of course.
What is Lang’s Game?
THE SPLIT.
“He closed the cafe because his wife was always
quarrelling over the management.”
Though hard he tried, without avail
Wore his negotiations.
The fateful notice told the tale—
“ Closed during altercations .”
•t* *r*
“Mr. Lyons’ Problem: How to Get Cash. The
52nd Lottery.” l — “Sun” poster.
His problem is similar to that of the hos :
pitals—viz., how to get the Lottery cash
from Mr. Lang.
VEGETABLE DEFICIENCIES.
“It is safe to predict that during the next five
years there will be no pease in China. “Sun.”
Likewise the whole slump-smitten world is
likely to show a lack of beans, while Russia
POSITIVE PROOF OF IT.
“Your friend Ginks—is he well off?”
“Oh, rather! Never borrows less than fifty quid at a time.”
threatens to go clean off its onion. In N.S.W.
there may be no beets for policemen, cauii-
flower-ears for pugs, salary for civil ser-
vants or choko for gaolbirds. And no lucky
turnups for any of them. Although the world
is trying to stop the financial leek the answer
may be a raspberry, if not a lemon ; and we
will have to be thankful in the end for small
murphies.
H. M
V ¥
PARADOX.
The political schemes with which we're
bombarded
Are queer in their way, so I’ve found ;
For the unsoundest ones, when closely
regarded.
Turn out to be nothing but sound.
*
MENTAL TEST FOR TAXI-DRIVERS.
(Conducted by Transport Commission.)
1. While cruising in Darlingliurst you
pick up a fare who, by his appearance, is
a visitor from the Outback. lie instructs
you to drive to the railway. Sketch briefly
the route you would take, bearing in mind
that a detour is necessary at Rose Bay,
while there are patches of had road in por-
tions of the main roads through Botany,
Haberfield and Matraville.
2. You are at the head of the rank and a
party of nine Scotsmen approach and ask
you to drive them approximately two miles
at 9d. per mile (that figure being easily
divisible among their number for apportion-
ment). Draft a reply which is at once
convincing and devoid of blasphemy.
3. What is change? Is its possession de-
sirable? As a hypothetical case, A tenders a
pound-note, the meter reading 17s. 9d. Give
reasons (if any) for having change.
4. You have as an urgent fare an ecclesi-
astical gentleman, and you are still two
miles from your destination and nearest
garage when you get a double blow-out. At
the same time you realise that you must be
nearly out of petrol. Would you consider
yourself justified in using the word
“d —n”?
5. A bibulous party has left your car alter
tipping you with a bad florin. Before he is
out of sight you discover that he has left
six bottles of beer on the back seat. Out-
line procedure.
6. Following on the preceding question,
the policeman on point duty, who has been
closely observing your movements, comes
over just as you are operating on the first
bottle. He has an interrogatory gleam in his
eye. Detail your next move.
S. W. K.
Of “exes” once we lightly spoke,
Of our disbursements made a joke,
And money threw away
In ev'ry cabaret and bar;
But such delights the way things are
Are very “ex” to-day.
* *
FOR MARRIED MEN ONLY.
Despite the thrip menace there will be
plenty of fruit for the woman who owns a
preserving outfit —there always is. But who
does the marketing? You.[
Who carries home the fruit t.... You.
Who peels or stones the fruit? You!
Then save yourself the usual seasonable
trouble and anguish by enrolling in our
efficiency course of six lessons on this im-
portant household subject.
Learn how to secure the fruit the wito
tells you to get at
less than the price
she names.
Learn the correct
method of carrying
a case of fruit on a
crowded tram.
Learn how to
stand for hours after
your day’s work is
done, paring, coring
and bottling fruit.
Learn how to
wake, all senses alert
and efficient, at the
exact moment after
midnight when the
bottles are due to be
removed from the
stove.
ENROL NO W.
Miss the pitfalls that
take years of heart-
breaking endeavor to
discover.
We guarantee that
our Mr. J. Appleby
Sturmer will person-
ally conduct th e
tuition. No inex-
perienced or half-
experienced under-
ling, but a man of
wide experience,
trained under the
strict supervision of
four former wives, all
expert fruit-pre-
servers.
Apply for a copy of “Fruitcraft” (enclose
sixpence for postage, etc.), and learn how
to preserve fruit and harmony in the home.
Terms if desired.
The Acme Correspondence Schools and
Husbands’ Aid Service (J. Appleby Sturmer,
8.0. T., managing director).
* *
LEST HE FORGET.
“V. J. Sharpe, a young Newcastle artist, has
received a letter from Sir Philip Game saying that
he wished to purchase two of Mr. Sharpe’s black-and-
white drawings to take back to England to keep the
Australian atmosphere with him.”
If, when he’s terminated his career
As George’s representative out here,
He fain would have Australian atmosphere
Around him hang,
Let us suggest that he should also get,
As a reminder more effective yet,
To place atop some stately cabinet
In his manorial hall in Somerset
A bust of Lang.
ACCEPTABLE EITHER WAY.
WIFE: “We’re having mother for dinner to-
night.”
BRUTE: “Splendid! Roast or boiled?”
TO A SCOT IN TERROR OF THE
CLAN CAMPBELL.
“Alderman Garden is extremely nervous of an
attack by the New Guard, and fears that police
protection may be inadequate.”
I‘uir t slcehit, cowrin’, tim’rous Jock!
Oh, ye ha’ gi’ed your friends a shock!
“Deid men,” ye cracked, “no tailies tell.”
Yet Eric, still alive and loell,
IJis ptaidie trails aboot the toon,
Nor ony hauf-brick dings him doon.
Maun we believe that Auburn's laird,
Whose kail an’ usquebaugh ye've shared,
An’ Tonald Grant, sa doun an’ dour,
Winna stand by ye i’ this hour,
An’ help ye break Owstrellyer’s laws
F Revolution’s bluidy cause?
Tide cmirage, Jock, an’ gin some e’en
The Campbells cornin’ south, are seen,
(let. Goulburn-street tae lend a hand
An’ oot the anti-Russian band.
Owstrellyer would be sairly fashed
Tae see the basher’s idol bashed.
D.
MUSIC.
Some hear sweet music in the storm ; and
if you’re sitting, snug and warm, a glad fire
toasting slippered toes, and near your hand
a tankard, I’ll grant the gale that makes eyes
sting to those inside is comforting—to others
it’s a blankard.
But let me say, of all the chimes that
are attuned to wintry times when windows
rattle in the breeze and cold, keen winds
are sighing, there is no music really that
can match the harmonies of fat —the swish
and splutter in the pan, the chant of good
things frying.
When ice is in the winds that whine, and
raindrops trickle down the spine, how com-
forting it is to sit and hear the cheerful
splutter that tells of warming things to eat,
an excellence of mushroomed meat, or plates
of sizzling ham and eggs and toast that melts
the butter; the frostbite banished from the
nose, feeling restored to ice-stung toes, a
change to dry (if shabby) clothes, a sense
of comfort bringing.
I’ll give you Wagner and the rest —the
tempest’s maddened music ; best of music in
the winter’s that of fat in warm pans
singing.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
ADVANCE AUSTRALIA.
The managing editor of the “Stifler,” the
great Australian daily, eyed his trembling
picture-editor severely.
“Mr. Pugwash,” he boomed, “I’m dissatis-
fied with you.”
“Really, I” shuddered the serf.
“Yes. Your pictures are —er —not up to
the high standard demanded by the public
of the “Stifler.” They are —er —too local.
Too parochial. Beware the parish pump,
Pugwash. We want —er —tone. Pu sang,
if you understand Italian.”
“I” began Pugwash.
“Exactly; too
much of that, I
notice. In yes-
terday’s fi rs t
edition you
had one pic-
ture of a hunt-
ing accident in
Lei cestershire.
That was .quite
—er —good. A
new portrait of
the Duchess —
very good—first
we’ve had of her
for over a week.
A picture of
the Rotli e r-
hit h e bulldog
parade very
i n tc res ting.
Flamingoes in
the Zoological
Gardens, Re-
gent’s Par k—
looking suspi-
ciously like our
local Zoo, I’m
afra i d, Pug-
wash.
“T he n you
have some girls
hiking in Sur-
rey. Many of
our readers
would be dis-
posed to say
that this photo-
graph was taken
—er —in A u s-
tralia. Faugh!
But let it pass. Then you have a steeple-
chase at Torquay, England, some top-
hatted schoolboys on the playing-field of
Eton. Riders in Rotten-row —very instruc-
tive ; they can’t ride here. Changing guard
at St. James’s Palace, and a distant view
of Norwich Cathedral.
“Now, Pugwash, all this is very well. But
you also printed at least six pictures of
Australian happenings! One showed some
schoolboy barrackers, minus top-hats. Re-
volting !
“Frankly, Pugwash, it’s too —er —damned
colonial. The “Stifler” has traditions to
maintain. Dear old Motherland, silken
bonds, links of Empire, and —er —so on.
We must keep up our prestige, our ton, as
the Viennese put it. Vanity Fair, you know,
and old-world amenities. See to it, 1 ug-
wash. See to it. Or”
“I” began Pugwash.
“Quite —er —quite. That will be —er—
enough.”
N.


Now, Mr. John D. Valentin
please stick to facts
on Sugar!
THERE are one or two associations in
the South that seem to take a keen
pleasure in attacking the sugar
industry. Their capacity for bowling
over Aunt Sallys of their own making
is quite extraordinary, but it is time
that they were brought to book. They
misrepresent the position so shockingly,
and are so unfair in their comments,
that they are likely to do harm to the
30,000 families engaged in growing
Australia’s sugar unless we give the
people the facts.
II
j. ij, '■ ■.•; ff- %;
Jd« * ■' ! ' A lSiff ■
i**/
we
■ c ‘w~. •
- - - ■• - —j-—^
Mr. John D. Valentine, Honorary Secretary of the Launceston “Henry George League,” is
typical of these thoughtless critics. In a recent letter to the press he said that if the duty on
sugar were reduced to pre-war level, “the fruit-growing and processing industries, and the confec-
tionery and condensed-milk manufacturers would be able to recapture their export trade without
resort to the niggardly grant, hush money, which the sugar magnates allow them from the enormous
spoils they reap.”
Let us give the facts. They tell an entirely different story.
The facts tell a very different
story, indeed.
Manufacturers of jams and canned fruits, of confectionery and con-
densed milk , for export , get their sugar at the price at which they
could land in A user alia the cheapest foreign sugar of equal quality .
That’s a different story, isn’t it? Down falls Mr. Valentines whole case. If he were in the
witness-box, under cross-examination, he would be forced to admit that his tale is sheer inven-
tion, a cock-and-bull story of the wildest kind.
But in addition to giving all export industries their sugar at import prices, we growers go further,
we give those engaged in the fruit industry a special rebate to help them in developing the demand
for their products, and this is what Mr. Valentine calls being niggardly ! ! !
Either Mr. Valentine and the members of the 4 Henry George League and the ladies of the
Housewives’ Association—do not know these facts, or they deliberately misrepresent them.
Which is it?
inserted bu the
Sugar Cromers of Australia
for the information of the S/eopIe
R.S.M.
SHADOW SHOWS.
What Boris Karloff, as a monster built
up from the spare parts of dead bodies, does
to the inhabitants of his assemblage-place is
nothing t 0 what our censor has done to the
film on the subject, which is now showing
•it Sydney Capitol. “Frankenstein, ’ as
amended for Australian consumption is just
one anti-climax after another. ihe new
model is all ready for the touch on the self-
starter, so to speak. Lightning flashes,
thunder peals, rain teems down. Mae Clarke,
the inventor’s girl; John Boles, his triend,
and a sceptical doctor hammer at the door
and demand admittance. The fact that they
are to witness the impending outrage on
nature adds materially to the horror ot the
situation. Amidst hysterical shrieks the audi-
ence steels itself to see the electricity-charged
giant struggle out of his bandages and
there is a black-out. The monster comes
across a little girl, who accepts lnm as a
friend, and leads him smilingly to a lake.
She starts playfully throwing daisies into
the water. M’e joins sombrely, doubtfully, in
the game. You know what is coming, bu'
before it does —black-out. When next seen
the child is being carried through the town
by her grief-crazed father, a dripping corpse.
The film is further weakened by its witless
anachronisms. The opening shot shows an
old-time burying-place, with gibbet and hang-
ing malefactor complete; and a few minutes
later we are introduced to a modern room
containing people with 1932 clothes and man-
ners Frankenstein joins the peasants m
their pursuit of his disastrous creation wear-
ing riding-breeches that a Savile-row tailor
might be proud of, but torches, dogs and
cudgels are used instead of armored cars and
searchlights. The monster isn’t bombed or
machine-gunned; he is burned to death in a
sixteenth-century mill. If the director had
made this an honest period production it
might have been impressive, in spite of the
censor. Boris Karloff’s monster is a master-
piece, who appears all the more sinister by
reason of his expressionless countenance and
brutish economy of gesture, and Colin Clive
is well cast as Frankenstein. _ But Frederick
Kerr, as a German father, is like a breath
from Piccadilly, and the dialogue is a queer
blend of medievalism and modernity. The
sets are beautiful where they are simple, as
in the graveyard and lakeside scenes, and
vulgar and unconvincing where they are not,
as in Elizabeth’s bedroom scene.
The first part of the Capitol bill is unusu-
ally good. It has some fine nature studies
and an interesting gazette and musical pro-
gramme.
“Emma” (M.-G.-M.), at Sydney St.
James, presents Marie Dressier as house-
keeper to an inventor, his wife and three
children. The wife dies at the arrival of
the fourth child and Emma takes the mother-
less brood to her capacious bosom. She
nurses them through, childish illnesses and
pulls them out of innumerable troubles. The
family ascends from humble circumstances
to a state of financial security, but its
affluence does not alter Emma’s position in
the household. She is fonder of Ronald, the
youngest son, than of any of the others, and
it is lie who sticks to her when his brothers
and sisters turn against the ageing servant.
The mutiny occurs following their father's
death, a few days after he has married
Emma, and the news that he has left Emma
all his cash. They believe that Emma
poisoned him, and have her arrested for mur-
der. Emma is acquitted, but her victory is
made hollow by the death of Ronny, who was
killed in an aeroplane while dashing to her
aid. She hands over the whole estate to
the family and parts from the ungrateful
crew. The film ends with her starting afresh
as housekeeper to a young doctor and his
wife, who have a quartette of noisy infants.
She is perfectly content, for the latest baby
is to be called Ronald. Well acted.
# * #
At Sydney Regent Will Rogers makes
most of the fun in “Young As You Feel”
(Fox). He begins as an ageing dyspeptic,
head of a flourishing meat-packing business.
Ilis two sons loaf on him, and meet-
ing Fleurette, a dancer, he hits upon a plan
to reform them. He neglects his work and
embarks upon a round of amusement with
Fleurette. The thing ends with the sons
acquiring wives and showing signs of settling
down, while Dad goes off to Paris for a
holiday. Rogers is as bright as ever, and
Fifi Dorsay and Lucien Littlefield are excel-
lent supporters.
'
“Waiting for the Bride” (Radio), at
Sydney Havmarket and Mayfair, shows that
considerable progress has been made in
colored cinematography. The story concerns
the efforts of a chorus-girl to capture a
wealthy husband by fair means or foul. The
high-kicker is forced to adopt the latter
method, but discovers in the middle of her
knavery that she loves the man and cannot
pull the wool across his eyes. An elaborate
church wedding between the pair is the cul-
mination of a welter of plans and counter-
plans, suspicions and exposures. Mary Brian
makes a radiant husband-chaser; Geoffrey
Kerr is able as the victim who discovers the
plot but really doesn’t mind; Marie Prevost
is a cheery gold-digger running to flesh, and
Joseph Cawthorn contributes a faithful
character study as a tippling actor.
* * ¥
In “To-morrow and To-morrow” (Para-
mount), at Sydney Plaza, Ruth Chattertou
is Eve, the lovely but unhappy—because
childless—wife of Gail Redman (Robert
Ames). Nicholas Faber (Paul Lukas), a
Viennese brain specialist, who comes to stay
with the Redmans, seduces the discontented
lady and returns to Yurrup. In due time
the Stork visits the Redman home, and the
unsuspecting Gail rejoices. “Father” and son
get on well enough together except that
the boy does not share the man’s love for
horses. The boy is dangerously injured while
trying to clear a hurdle, and after the family
doctor has despaired of him, Faber, once
more in America, steps in and pulls the lad
through. The stage is set for a resumption
of the previous relations between Faber and
Eve, but Eve says no.
¥ ¥
“Sally in Our Alley” (Radio), at Sydney
Lyceum, with Grade Fields in the title-r6le,
tells a novelettish story about a London
coffee-shop singer who pines for her lover.
He went to the war and mysteriously van-
ished after it was over. Sally performs kind
deeds, such as trying to rescue Florrie (Flor-
ence Desmond), a counterfeiter’s daughter,
from the gutter. When George (lan
Hunter) does return —ill-health and a desire
not to burden Sally kept him away—the un-
grateful Florrie slanders her benefactress,
vamps George and relieves him of his wallet.
Finally Florrie repents, yanks George off
an overseas liner just as he is going to
emigrate, and reunites the lovers. The piece
is tolerably well acted, and Ben Field’s por-
trayal of the coffee-shop proprietor is highly
amusing.
“Cauboy”: History is repeating itself with
the vocal version of “The Sentimental
Bloke,” over whose success Thring is
rubbing his hands. The original silent
was released in Melbourne in 1918,
and the trade shook its head over it.
It ran for three weeks at the Town Hall,
and Hoyt’s broke its invariable rule of
not showing second runs. After a week
to capacity there it was transferred across
the Yarra and ran for another packed week
at West’s old showhouse, now the Y.M.C.A.
building. “The Bloke” continued to score
for the next few months all over Australia,
and in 1920 Frank Talbot, of the Athenaeum,
burst discreetly on London with it. In his
baggage were JO autographed copies of Den-
nis’s verses addressed to leading newspaper
mandarins. At Northcliffe’s command Tal-
bot took the film down to that imperial jour-
nalist’s country house for a private screen-
ing, which moved Northcliffe to instruct
his newspapers to give the Australian
the free run of his columns. The pic-
ture took off at the Alhambra, and alto-
gether netted £30,000 gross for its promoters.
Arthur Tauehert, the “silent” Bloke, was
no oil-painting. Cecil Scott, his vocal suc-
cessor, is the answer to the flapper’s prayer.
“Nakhoda”: Touching the recent discus-
sion in The Bulletin on Art and Realism.
I went recently to “East of Borneo,’’ a much -
boomed film of Universal. Having lived near
the district where the story is placed I
learnt for the first time that there are tigers
in Borneo; that its rajahs speak with an
Oxford accent and the only word of Malay
they know is “tuan”; that they live in pal-
aces more luxurious and more sculpturally
wonderful than the temple of Angkor-wat in
Cambodia, whose ruins are one of the
marvels of the world; and that they keep
sacred crocodiles. These distortions of fact,
however, would not have destroyed the illu-
sion of reality for me if the illusion was
there. But the only impression I got wa3
of a tenth-rate melodrama compounded from
“White Cargo” and !l The Green Goddess.”
None of tlie characters seemed to me to be
human beings, which is all that matters in
a work of art; but to the flapper who was
with me “East of Borneo” was as convinc-
ing as anything could be. Her notions about
human beings were no doubt as melodramatic
as her knowledge of Borneo was nil.
“Cine Ma”: A good example of how con-
vention-ridden the average talkie addict is
was provided at a showing of “The Blue
Angel” in Melbourne. Three-quarters of
the way through a marriage Occurs, and
after the ceremony fully 25 p.c. of the audi-
ence got up and left, thinking it was the
end of the show.
"" “Cauboy”; It is frequently complained
that anti-Amei’ican prejudice induces Aus-
tralians to criticise the productions of Holly-
wood unfairly. And yet I don’t know of any
Australian paper which has printed remarks
like these, which are culled from one of the
leading cinema monthlies of _ Hooverland.
Clara Bow is described as having “a nasal
shriek.” Constance Bennett is the pos-
sessor of “a croak instead of a voice.”
Norma Shearer is “one of the most atro-
ciously dressed women on the screen.
Her idea of sophistication is a ghoulish
laugh, accompanied by strange head-tossings,
hand gyrations and other anatomical con-
tortions.” As for the idol of Australian
flapperdom, John Barrymore, he “ceased to
be an actor when he wont on the screen.”


WORLD’S LARGEST BATTERY ORGANISATION
PRESENTS NEW TYPE BATTERY
The Exide • 44" Battery makes dependable starting witlj
the reach of all Only the facilities of “The Worldj
Largest Manufacturers of Storage
for Every Purpose" could produce
quality at such a low price
This battery like all
Exides. has excepting
cold-weather
starting,
pmmends the Exide “44"
,ttery
norists everywhere
s looking for new
of economising
the running of their
irs, and the Exide
l 4" undoubtedly
fers a solution in
le field of reliable
'ectric power for
purposes
ignition,
ghting, warn-
signals. cowl
>hts. instru-
ment panel
d dome
s, electric
tndscreen
ler.and
1 *h e
,t her
jtrical
:ces-
iries
th
ich
iy
eq\
it \
ong\
durim
usefuli
tests s\
Exide A
its rated\
91* of in
Such sta%
in no othem
the price of%
performance \
against starti*
the cost of re\
rentals inctm
and delays on t\
true economy isk
not only in its km
also in the servicl
renders during its II
dependable starting
ars are
he Exide “44" is sure of
enthsiastic reception from
sjwtralian motorists. It is
IKfiLworthy addition to
Exide line of
liable
iglraligS&lli&feJ I: ]ll eri e s
For dependable slartif
at low first cost Exide
F2O
m
■
"ql'i R eU“ b ' Utl
. Vi'
Tic^
O’
B»'
pY* cC
,«« *t» w r>;> 5
►>°' 5
s £,v,c ■; *>v
,»t* eS
„ s$S«
Appearance, Comfort
.....and WEAR
Rameno Garments for
Sport and Ordinary Wear.
Every Rameno garment is well
designed, properly constructed
and made from the best mat-
erial —the finest and best quality
Australian wool. Noted for
their long life, Rameno gar-
ments always give the wearer a
sense of satisfaction, especially
when standing the close inspec-
tion of friends.
Cost no more, but much
better.
In color and design, Rameno
garments are modelled on the
latest English and Continental
fashions in Men’s Knit-wear.
They wear long because they
fit well.
A popular Cardigan, No. 2091.
Plain or marl colors in soft
tonings.
RAMENO
ZAfgtf/jvo -jcv/r ’’
CARDIGANS
SOCKS STOCKINGS
Sold by all the best Men’s Stores.
TTIE only twb Australian newspapers
1 whose reviews of the wonderful
colored picture issue of “The Times
Weekly Edition” were quoted in “The
Times” were “The Argus” and
“THE BARRIER MINER,”
one a metropolitan and the other a
provincial daily newspaper.
All the Broken Hill people and the Far West
people are proud to see their own daily paper
thus picked out by “The Thunderer” as repre-
sentative of Australia,
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1 000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
Prom the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office —
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
m
- i
‘Trices £lB/18/0 to £5O/10/0
Send enquiries to local Dealer or
A. G. HEALING Ltd.
Manufacturers and Master Distributors
(Wholesale Only)
MELBOURNE: 167473 Franklin St. C.l
ADELAIDE: Cr. Pirie & Pulteney Sts.
SYDNEY : 164-170 Goulburn Street
‘Retail ‘Distributors
MELBOURNE: Healings Pty. Ltd., 101 Elizabeth
Street, C.l
HOBART and LAUNCESTON: Medhurst and
Sons Pty. Ltd.
PERTH: Bay’s Transport Ltd., 917 Hay Street
Queensland ‘Dealers Write to—
R. J. ROSE. C/o T. W. MOSS & CO.
121 Eagle Street, Brisbane
EMINENT MUSICIANS say
ea
m.
GOLDEN VOICED RADIO
Ls different
Mr. GUSTAVE SLAPOFFSKI, Celebrated Orchestra Conductor
of ]. C- 'Williamson Opera fame : —
“I had the pleasure to-day of hearing several items from a
Healing Golden Voiced Radio Receiver. . . . The reproduction
was amazing .... Particularly the clarity with which one could
distinguish the various instruments of the orchestra .... much
more so than I have ever heard from any other radio receiver.”
Mr. GEORGE ENGLISH, Conductor, Uictorian Postal Institute
Choir, probably the foremost Choral Conductor in Australia : —
“ Its transmission of the voice is remarkable, inasmuch as it
preserves the peculiar characteristics of the various singers,
known as ‘ timbre ’ Another feature is that in concerted
music the whole of the chords are heard, not the melody only,
as in most sets.”
mm


IMPROVE YOUR LAND.
AGRICULTURAL LIME
“APPLIM” BRAND
GOES FURTHER, ACTS QUICKER, COSTS I F*S
“Applim” Agricultural Lime is 95
per cent. Calcium Carbonate. It
is finely pulverised, and can thus
be spread economically. Being
readily soluble it reacts quickly.
PRICE IN BAGS (10-toil
lots), P.O.R. FOOTSCRAY.
I.
PER TON
WHAT “APPLIM” DOES
liberates potash and phosphates; Decomposes
organic matter; Promotes nitrification:
Corrects soil acidity; Makes clay soil friable:
Tends to bind sandy soil; Stimulates bacterial
activity; Promotes soil fertility.
Thus plant food is made available, the soil is
sweetened and crops and pastures are vastly improved.
A OTE. An application of “Applim'’ before sowing
lucerne or clover practically ensures a good stand.
Write for technical booklet.
AMMONIA PRODUCTS PTY., LTD.,
LYONS STREET, FOOTSCRAY, VICTORIA.
e
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
9S PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. k C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
i Agency Co., Ltd. ' ■==
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
OVERSTOCKING.
“Golightly” : A neighbor of mine (Central-
Western slopes, N.S. W.) with 30,000 acres
boasts that during his four years in this dis-
trict sales of sheep bred on his run total
40,000, and there still remains on hand an
increase of 10,000. Many runs in western
N.S.W. with a safe carrying capacity of one
sheep, to seven acres are now carrying about
one sheep per two acres. This overstocking
has developed through an abnormal run of
good seasons and the difficulty of selling
surplus sheep owing to low values.
A drought will come sooner or later, and
on overstocked country millions of sheep will
die of starvation—a cruel and wasteful
method of rectifying overstocking.
Notwithstanding the lure of an abnormally
large wool clip, I am reducing my sheep
numbers to below normal by meeting the
market with my surplus sheep while fat and
in the full wool, believing that it is a saving
on selling off-shears, as the butcher allows
lor skin value. Marketing this portion of
the clip on the hoof cuts out shearing costs,
woolpacks, cartage, rail freight, brokers’
charges and storage, which in my distrie
total over Is. Bd. per head per sheep. Also
the cash is on hand within a few days, as
against months of waiting for a wool sale.
There is no danger these days of being
caught understocked. To gamble on a con-
tinuance of flush seasons is reckless -and
inconsiderate. It is wiser in the long run
to cull heavily and meet the market in the
wool.
A GOOD SHEEP-DRENCHING RACE.
“Pine Scrub”: The best I have seen is
GOft. long by 2ft. Gin. wide, and about 4in.
lower on the operator’s side. On the oppo-
site or left side is fastened a Gin. by lin.
board to serve as a shelf, on which to place
syringes and drench. The feature which
most appealed to me was the introduction
of two pairs of double gates, the width of
the race, at equal intervals on the left side
so as to form part of the wall; they can
be swung across the race and fastened, thus
dividing it into three sections with gaps of
sft. between them.
The race can be rapidly filled, and by
means of these gates the sheep can be
tightened up sufficiently to enable the
operators to work quickly and efficiently. The
race is just wide enough to hold two sheep
abreast, and the operators can work on
separate sections. When a section is com-
pleted the gates at each end are opened,
and the sheep are working out while the
next lot is being dosed.
In drenching, most time is lost forcing
Ihe sheep into the race closely enough to
handle them easily; this race reduces that
loss of time. A long race saves time, but
with it there is a risk of loss through sheep
getting down before the operator reaches
them ; that risk is also considerably reduced
by the small sections. This race will serve
also for branding.
EXCAVATED TANKS.
“Mulyan”: A defect I have noticed in
many excavated tanks in western N. S.
Wales is that the batters are too steep. The
sheep in rushing and sliding down carry
soil with them, which silts the edge of the
tank and makes a bog right round the water.
They can’t drink comfortably on the steep
slope without turning partly sideways; and
when climbing out, bloated with drink, they
break a bit more out of the bank by digging
their toes in. That broken soil is swept
down on their return, or carried down by
the winds. The reservoir deteriorates daily,
and the value of depth is lost by the rapid
silting, even though flood-wash is avoided by
directing the intake through pipes or flum-
ing from a receiving tank.
Another fault is in placing the tank in
the sun-scorched open, far from any break or
shelter. On a station where this was a
general practice, I asked the owner his
reason for doing so, and he said if there
were clumps of trees near by the sheep
would hang about the tank. What matter
if they did? After drinking in such a place
and drinking more than what is good for
them because the water is warm, they drag
wearily back to the distant shade to camp.
In most cases they come in late or early
in the morning, but still the water is not
as satisfying as it is in a sheltered tank.
On some of the wide plains the exposed
situation is unavoidable, but it is not diffi-
cult or expensive to provide shelter. Shade
and breaks prevent evaporation.
In any case, I regard the excavated tank,
pure and simple, as an expensive waste. It
starts to deteriorate as soon as it is finished,
and the water in it is very seldom whole-
some ; it is green, muddy, scummy, or full
of insects.
The best man-made reservoirs I have seen
were half-tank and half-dam, formed by
building a high bank with the excavated soil
across a narrow flat, between two low hills.
This threw the water far back, covering
many acres, and as the slopes were long and
gradual there was never any bog, while
timber at the top of the flat prevented silt-
ing by winds. The centre of the reservoir
and a wide strip across the top end were
not scooped. In these shallow places
reeds and rushes grew, and kept the l water
wholesome.
This is the cheapest and most satisfactory
sort of reservoir to make, and in suitable
places one tank, with its long natural shore-
lines, can be made to water two or three
paddocks.
A GOOD WORD FOR WILGA.
“Booraby”: A shrub or small tree of
graceful appearance is the wilga, also known
as sheep bush and gelgera, and in some places
as western willow —from its long, narrow
leaves and pendulous branches. Being a
handsome and drought-resisting shrub, it
finds a place in many far-western gardens—
and it is an ornament in any garden or
shrubbery. Its chief value, however, is as
a forage plant. All kinds of stock are fond
of it, and do well on a mixture of the foliage
and grass. In drought-time, when they have
to depend on “scrub,” they keep in good
condition provided they can get as much of
it as they require. In arid country wilga is
usually subjected to severe treatment, and
unfortunately little or nothing is done to
keep up a sufficient supply.
The tree, which is easily propagated from
seed in dry soil, grows to 20ft. in height
and Ift. in diameter. For garden purposes
it can be kept at any height desired, and
trimmed into a neat round shrub; but on
the runs it is advisable to let it grow up,
lopping only the branches —well out from
the trunk, until it has reached its full height,
when the top can be cut. While it is grow-
ing sheep and cattle keep the branches
clipped even when there is plenty of other
feed, and lopping is only necessary in bad
times, when the branches are out of
their reach. Shrubs and trees should be
spared as long as there is sufficient grass and
herbage; they should be regarded always as
a reserve forage.
Wilga is so tough and hardy that it is
an old saying that you can’t kill it with an
axe. The light-colored, close-grained timber
is nicely scented when freshly cut, and is
used for making naves of wheels, ships'
blocks, bullock yokes, tool handles and for
other purposes. In western parts it is
often sacrificed, like many other valuable
trees, being cut down for fencing and yard
building. Considering that it produces a
great quantity of seed, which germinates
freely, there is no reason why every “dry”
run should not be well sprinkled with wilga,
among other hardy shrubs, as a standby for
the recurrent periods when other feed is
gone. It is found in the driest parts of
N.S.W., and as far west in Queensland as
Cooper’s Creek.
LUCERNE FORTY YEARS OLD.
In an “Agricultural Gazette” article re-
tailing the experiences of lucerne-growers in
the Monaro sheep country, L. W. McLennan
and J. L. Green record some very interesting
facts bearing on the longevity of lucerne.
Their investigations took them to Murra-
numbla, on the Snowy, midway between Nim-
mitabel and Mount Kosciusko, a place 2500
feet above sea level, with a 19-inch rainfall
and a soil of granite origin. Here lucerne
was first sown 40 years ago. This was
ploughed and resown 10 years ago, but many
of the original plants, with their strong
healthy crowns, still survive.
The area sown 40 years ago and resown
in 1921 (at 101 b. per acre) consists of five
acres. It yields heavy cuts of hay. An area
of 15 acres, first sown 40 years ago and re-
sown with drill in 1923 (at 81b. per acre),,
is described as “a very good stand.” Ten acres
broadcast at 151 b. per acre in 1921 gave a
poor germination, but the area developed
into a fair stand. It improved considerably
after renovation, and top-dressing with fcwt.
super., in 1930.
The owner, Mr. Morrice, also goes in for
sub.-clover. Say the departmental writers :
“An area of 30 acres was ploughed in 1929
and the clover drilled in at 21b. per acre with
fcwt. super. It seeded well the first year and
there was a good germination in April,
1930. In July, 1931, a dense mass of clover
2in to 4in. high covered the ground and had
choked out most of the tussocky poa and wire
grass which formerly predominated in the
paddock. Three sheep to the acre had been
carried for the year, whilst natural pastures
carried only one.”
KILLING ON THE ROAD.
“Mulgo”: The proper time is about an
hour before sundown. When the night camp
has been picked, and weather conditions
are favorable, the next thing is to
look for a suitable gallows tree —one with
screening foliage, and a strong horizontal
limb at a handy height from the ground. It
has to be near water, for that i,s where the
waggonette will be drawn up, and thus, in
the back country, a convenient killing-place
is not always easy to find.
To avoid rustling the cattle about, post a
rifleman in the tree, and manoeuvre the mob
quietly along until the beast that is wanted
is under the gallows or thereabouts, when it
can be shot from above. With a spread on
the cattle, it may be shot at the right place
from horseback. The flaying is done
directly under the limb, and the carcase
hauled up with a rope by the waggonette
horses, secured with another rope, and left
hanging all night. Peg the hide out on level
ground near by, and sprinkle with salt. On
that, before daylight and by the light of a
log fire, cut up the quarters and salt the
pieces well, removing all heavy bone. By
doing this early the work is done before the
flies are about; and by leaving camp two
or three hours later than usual the meat has
time to drain. Don’t pack it till the last
minute; then get to the next camp as soon
as possible, unpack it there immediately, and
give the whole of it another rub over, then
let it drain again.
Some of the meat may be carried in pickle
—in a large keg; but for clean and con-
venient carrying most of it should be dried.
Smoke-drying is the best, as that can be
done in a night if the meat is not cut in
thick junks. To do that, strip a couple of
sheets of bark and erect them in cylindrical
form, hang the meat round the top, and keep
a smoky fire burning at the base, having a
small door cut out at the bottom for that
purpose. Place a piece of bark over the
top, leaving a space at each side. As men
arc watching the cattle all night, the smoker
can be kept going by each in turn attend-
ing to it now and again.
Dry meat may require a little soaking
before cooking, but it is easy to carry, and
there is no loss ; while the undried makes a
mess in the waggonette and attracts flies.
ROTATIONAL GRAZING FOR
QUEENSLAND.
“ J.A.S.”: Queensland possesses hundreds
of dairy farms, divided into but two or
three paddocks, on which the system of
rotational grazing could be profitably intro-
duced. Our Government stock experts
remind us that young shoots of grass 4in.
to Gin. high contain as much digestible pro-
tein as many high-priced concentrates. On
farms where rotational grazing is practised
stock are put into the prepared paddocks at
the rate of about 12 cows to the acre, so
that the grass is closely grazed within a
week, being then transferred to the next
paddock. After grazing off, each paddock
is well harrowed aud top-dressed with a
suitable complete fertiliser.
The number of paddocks required to keep
the system going at all times naturally
varies according to climate, soil fertility,
etc., as would the amount of fertiliser
required. It is a mistake to overwork a
fertile soil by withholding the fertiliser—a
rich soil well fertilised will grow richer. Cul-
tivation of the paddocks naturally improves
the natural pasturage, the increase of clovers
being most noticeable. Other obvious ad-
vantages are greater ease of handling, a more
contented herd, better general health, and
the smaller bill for protein-bearing concen-
trates necessary under a haphazard system.
A SUCCESSFUL DAIRY-FARMER.
“R.E.” : In view of the interest taken in
the M.O.L. articles dealing with little farms,
well tilled, let me reprint the following from
Melbourne “Age” :
Mi'. 11. J. Rix, of Officer, has established some-
thing like a record, according to the judges of the
Vic. United Cow Test Association’s dairy-farm com-
petition. Mr. Rix’s 67 cows, only 15 of which were
mature, earned him a gross return of £26 a cow,
£2l 16s. an acre; these figures were from whole-
sale milk returns. Some 25 junior two-year-olds
averaged 3541 b. of butter-fat without any allow-
ances. As winner in gone 8, Mr. Rix gets a
trophy valued at 10 guineas. The judges classed
as splendid his score of 726 without any points from
the pig section, in w r hieh 50 points were offered.
The farm is of 80 acres, valued at £4O per acre.
Officer is not 32 miles from Melbourne.
A handy marketing distance, no doubt, but:
the land is not considered to be anything
approaching topnotch intense-culture land.
An appraisement of similar areas in the
Warrnambooi-Koroit and Colac-Beeac dis-
tricts would probably reveal figures 100 per-
cent. in excess of the per-acre value given
in the cutting.
PIGS AND MINERAL FOODS.
“Ilortus”: Stiffness of walk and manner,
slow growth, poor breeding capacity, general
unthriftiness and a depraved appetite for
bones and earth point in most cases to a
lack of lime and phosphorus. Minerals
should then be added in some form to the
food. Milk is a perfect food for young
animals, every gallon containing about -}oz.
lime. Mixed pasture is rich in lime (especi-
ally), phosphorus and salt; lucerne ana all
pod-hearing plants are rich in lime also.
Roots and tubers are relatively poor in all
the minerals. Concentrates such as wheat
offal are usually rich in phosphorus but
poor in lime.
Pigs are most liable to suffer from mineral
deficiency just past the weaning stage. Lime
is present in the bodies of growing pigs to
the extent of 1 per cent.; therefore pigs
putting on 21b. a day live-weight would need
to absorb and retain about -Joz. a day. The
greater part of pig food consists of wheat
offal and other cereal products with, say, the
addition of potatoes. These are all defi-
cient in lime and salt. A growing pig would
need to cat over 201 b. of a mixture of
maize, wheat and wheat offal to get the
Joz. or :}oz. of lime it needs. Such a ration
should be balanced up by an addition of
2Mb. ground limestone and 21b. common salt
to 1001 b. of cereals. If potatoes, which con-
tain very little phosphorus, form a large
part of the ration, it would be advisable
to put some bonemeal in instead of some of
the lime.
Many farmers cannot be bothered with
working out the exact quantities required
in such a balanced ration; but minerals must
be given. The easiest way is to put boxes
containing ground limestone, bonemeal,
common salt and ashes in pens or runs. If
the pigs cannot be allowed to run on pasture,
they must be given green food of some kind ;
it. is the finest mineral-container we have.
THE SAANEN GOAT.
“Hatter”: By introducing the Saanen
breed of goat the N.S.W. Agricultural
Department has convinced many people that
the milking goat is a good profit-earner. The
trouble is that there are not enough of
them. A moderate milker may be expected,
with proper care, to milk steadily for nine
or ten months (two years is the record)
and to produce from 100 to 150 gallons.
Many, of course, do better; 8& gallons in
24 hours is a yield quoted in England, and
our climate should be more congenial.
Little comes amiss in the way of food,
but these goats will reject any that is not
scrupulously clean and quickly tire of a
monotonous diet. Legumes (peas, tares,
lucerne') are keenly relished; for roughage
they prefer woody substances such as
blackberry, furze, hedge clippings, acorns and
weeds. For milk production some concen-
trates should be given in winter; equal
parts of cake, oats and bran make a suit-
able mixture. Grooming should not be
neglected; a daily brush helps to keep the
animals in good condition. The hoofs should
be. regularly trimmed and cut almost level
with the pad, to avoid rot and lameness.
Goats particularly dislike wet and should
never be kept on wet ground. If housed
at night they should have a bench of wood
or wooden slats to keep them off a concrete
or brick floor.
A good method of tethering is to run a
thick wire 20 yards or so in length over the
grass and peg it down firmly at either end ;
a short chain attached to the collar of the
goat and to a ring on the wire allows more
liberty than the ordinary pegs. In winter
a movable shelter should be provided at one
end of the wire. Exercise is necessary for a
goat that is tethered all day ; this may he
supplied by giving it boxes to jump over
in the yard.
The Saanen goats come from Switzerland
and are very suitable to this country on
small holdings with 'a bush run ; or on
poultry farms, where they keep the weeds
and grass down. Their milk is more easily
digested by infants and invalids than cows’
milk and is practically free from tubercle
infection. It is rich in fat and makes excel-
lent cheese and butter.
HORSE COLORS AND STAMINA.
“Mac”: I can’t agree with “Yarri” (B.
-0/4/’B2). The reason one gets better bay
or dark brown horses is that there are so
many more of them to pick from. How many
chestnut or grey (apart from pony) sires
does one see as compared with bay.or brown?
The same thing applies with creamies, though
I remember as a boy on the Macquarie a
breed of creamies with black manes and
tails and a black stripe down the back—-I
never saw a hardier or better lot of horses.
(Continued on page 26.)


■
I
m
m
In the saddle
Every rider appreciates the snug,
smooth fit. . . .the suppleness and
easy “feel”. . . .the smart appear-
ance of the Abbey Riding Boot.
It’s shaped to your foot. . . .with
stout elastic ankle-pieces that in-
crease resilience. The upper is lined
with soft leather, but there’s not
one raised seam inside. And the
sole is made of the toughest leather
obtainable.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also, a
tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF .. 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street and 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 281
INVINCIBLE
Marine Motors
BENZINE KEROSENE - CRUDE OIL
20 MODELS : 3 TO 160 H.P.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS LIMITED
53 NORTH GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W
AND AT CHICAG6. ILLINOIS.
Keep hopping and hoping if you
to succeed think of
e
SCHUTE,
BELL &C Lt*
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
“THE AGE”
Established, 185/f.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,’’
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street,
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
We have a large range of Pruning
Tools. Seccateurs all prices, 1/10,
3/-, 4/6, 5/-. Genuine "Mexeur,”
8/- and 8/6. "Wiss” 17/' and
19/9. "Duplex” Pruning Saw has
One of the greatest time and
labour savers on any Farm is
a " Macson ” Earth Scoop.
Strong Steel.
3 cub. ft. - 79/6
5 .. • 85*A
e side, lightning teeth
other.
l4-in. 3/6
ordinary teeth
Price 12
88/'
£7/-/
r
: W?
ra
11
The ideal Hand Pump for general pur /
poses is the "Acme.” 1600 .gallons./ heavy hau-
per hour. Price £5 F.O.R. Mil lln g work g et a
I ——- "Star” Rope Hoist.
bourne. s? \ yy _ c , L
y u; —rout sizes, from
500 lb. to 1,500 Jr
lb- capacity. Y A +
/ 'Jzr' Prices from / Jthl m _*T
1
17/3 to 50/6
Forge very strongly made,
22in, Firepan.
Blower.
£4/10/'
Other types available
U
Anvils, British Steel,
various weights. 1/3 lb.
See our Catalogue for
Hammers, Tongs, QCc.
Disston’s Crosscut Saws
from sft. Peg Tooth at
23/6 to 6ft. 6in. 30/6.
3ft. One-man, 20/6.
Many' others available.
Gb,
An Apex Petrol
Pump Outfit enables
you to buy and store
petrol in bulk. Also
useful tor filling tract-
ors out on the work.
Large size Pump with
% m. fittings 42/6.
Smaller size with Yi in.
fittings 37/6.
A glance through the
pages of our Free Cata-
logue reveals hundreds
of lines to interest
Farmers.
IE “Ricksha” Paint is un-
= doubtedly the best in Aus-
= tralia. Outlasts three coats
5 of inferior paints. Send for
5 color card and prices. We
■ carry large stocks of
Z Painter’s Brushware.
U
m
5
Exceptionally strong all-
metal Barrows at lowest
Lift your Car by Oil Power Hydraulic
Jacks. Enables a child to raise the
heaviest car. As illustrated, 2 ton
capacity Price 50/- Others also
stocked.
prices.
Write for particulars.
%
The quickest way to dig post holes. Get ;
Earth Auger and you’ll never use anything
else for this work. Sizes range from 3-in.
dia. to 10-in. Prices from 16/- to 18/'
" Motomac ” Electric Vul-
caniser will amaze you with its efficiency.
Just connect it to your battery and in
seven minutes the patch becomes act-
ually part of the tube. Complete with
patches, Price 10/6.
A few of the many lines stocked by
McPHERSON’S
-FOR -
FARM AND HOME
USE
Z'lSPKersori%)
Proprietary, Limited. Vs^«—
551 Collins Street, Melbourne
116 Waymouth St., Adelaide
51 Bathurst Street, Sydney
532 Muraay Street, Perth
With regard to greys, what about the Snow--
dens and early importations of Arabs? A
big majority of them were grey; and nothing
better. A white horse is called grey because
he was grey once. I never saw a white foal,
and all greys, no matter how dark as foals,
turn white with age.
As for temper, my experience—and it goes
back 50 years—is that chestnuts are the
worst. They are often high-spirited and good
horses when mastered, but the “dirt” is
there. I. have owned a good many roans,
both blue and red, and never struck a bad
one. Bald-faced horses are now decidedly
the fashion in draughts, as any show ring
will testify. A star is more common in the
bay or brown than the chestnut, the latter
being more frequently seen with a blaze.
HORSES WITH THE ITCH.
“Tumbe Munda”: During the last year
or two draught-horses in our South Aus.
district have been afflicted with an itch in
the legs, from heel to knee or hock. The
irritation was so great that a horse would
stop whilst in the team and stamp for
two or three minutes. I have seen them
scratch their pasterns till the blood came.
It is two months now since I treated my
team for this itch; since then I have not
seen a sign of it.
Clip the legs to the knees, get some
extract of soap and make good rich suds.
Pour into this a quantity of kerosene equal
in bulk to the suds and mix it up. Wash
the legs with this mixture night and morn-
ing for three days. There must be six
applications, or eggs hatching will cause
reinfestation. This explains why so many
farmers say it is impossible to cure the itch;
they did not persevere. And burn the clip-
pings.
lODINE FOR POULTRY.
“D. Fishent”: A poultry-farmer tells me
that he cured yolk-eaters by adding a drop
of iodine solution weekly to the drinking
water. This is quite possible, as there is
every chance of getting a hen constitution-
ally deficient in iodine. Such a thing is
known amongst humans.
Approximately one pound of iodine is con-
tained in 50 tons of eggs, and it is all present
in the yolk. One hundred average-sized
eggs weigh about 131 b., of which 14.1 p.c.
(lib. 130 z.) is shell, 53.7 p.c. (71b.) is white
of egg, and 32.2 p.c. (41b. 30z.) is yolk.
The shell consists of approximately 95 p.c.
lime carbonate, with small amounts of mag-
nesium carbonate, phosphate and organic
matter. White of egg is mainly water (86
p.c.) and protein p.c.), with a small
amount of ash and a trace of fat. The yolk
consists of water (50 p.c.), protein (16 p.c.)
and fat (33.3 p.c.). The amount of ash
(mineral) is nearly double that contained
in the white portion ; hence the yolk-eater.
The ash of the white of egg is rich in potash
and salt, whereas the yolk ash is rich in
lime and phosphates, and contains all the
iodine.
From these figures the poultry-farmer may
readily calculate the portion of the ration
which is utilised for egg production. For
example, every 100 eggs produced require
approximately 21b. of shell-grit, egg-shell or
marble chips for the purpose of supplying
the covering or mineral container of the egg.
This is the maximum amount of shell sub-
stance required, as no allowance has been
made for the appreciable amount of lime
obtained from the cereal and other foods.
From the iodine viewpoint let us not forget
that oyster-sliell contains more iodine than
any of the other supplies of lime. The
yellow coloring matter of the yolk is obtained
from young grass and other green food. There-
fore to keep tlie color a rich yellow give the
birds plenty of green food —preferably young
grass or lucerne.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Any reason why wheat shouldn’t be
grown purely as fodder and stored in silos
or airtight tanks for droughts? (2) Is it
practicable to malt or sprout grain in dry
times as a succulent feed for eives at lamb-
ing ? —9479.
(1) Nothing against it. (2) No. A great
deal of labor is involved, and there is danger
of the grain becoming soured or mouldy. It
is more profitable to supply succulent fodder
in the form of silage.
(1) My hack, in. splendid condition, has
gone off his feed. Treatment? (2) Treat-
ment for thread worms in horses? (3)
Treatment for itchy tail? —9728.
(1) and (3) Can’t diagnose without in-
spection. Consult a vet. (2) Administer
a drench of turpentine and linseed oil.
Draught horses may be given 2oz. turpentine
and a pint of linseed oil; light horses,
to a pint. The drench should be given in
the morning, after having starved the animal
from the previous afternoon.
How to get rid of a hornets’ nest, on a
garden fence?— 96s9.
Burn it out. A newspaper opened up,
sprinkled with kerosene and tied to a 6ft.
stick, would be suitable for the purpose.
Light the paper and when well ablaze plunge
the flame underneath the wasps’ nest. This
quickly burns their wings and destroys the
wasps ; the nest can then be knocked off and
crushed.
(1) Quantity of Australia’s export in
wines? (2) Britain’s total imports of Aus-
tralian ivines? (3) All wines? (4) What
countries does Britain take ivines from?
(5) Hames and location of Australian
firms making wines for both export and
home_ consumption? (6) Name of Austra-
lian institution where wine-making might be
learned? (7) Do Australian wines compare
favorably in quality and price with French?
(8) What tariff preference would it be neces-
sary to give Australia to allow her to com-
pete successfully with other countries selling
wines to Great Britain, assuming exchange to
be at par? —94so.
(1) For 1931, 2,215,530 gallons. (2) In
1931, 2,085,239 gallons. (3) In 1930,
13,864,919 gallons. (4) France, Italy, Spain,
Portugal, South Africa, Algeria, Crete, Aus-
tralia. (5) Over 80 p.c. of Australian wine
exports are from South Australia, and all well-
known firms compete. The only two firms ex-
porting from N.S.W. are Penfolds and Linde-
mans. (6) Roseworthy College (S.A.). (7)
Australia exports mostly wines of port
standard, whereas French wines belong to the
dry varieties. The export of Australian Bur-
gundy is stationary, whereas port types have
increased largely. Australian and African
were the only wines that increased in con-
sumption in England during 1931. The pro-
hibition of shipments of young, immature
wines from here would assist the industry.
Africa and Portugal both adopted this mea-
sure. (8) The present preference is 4s. a
gallon on sweet wine and Is. 6d. on dry wine.
To increase trade, with exchange at par,
another 2s. per gallon all round would be
wanted.
HTNTS FOR THE FARM.
“Mulgo”: To hang a gate with ordinary
hinges so that it will always shut of its
own accord, let the top hinge stand out a
little farther than the bottom one when the
hinges are fixed to the face of the post. When
hinged at the side, place the bottom farther
back than the top.
“Mug Bushman” : It’s a tedious job fitting
stays or strainers in a line of fence to which
a gate is to be swung. Instead, cut your
gateposts about 4ft. longer than ordinary,
and put them down about 30in., leaving
about Sft. of post out of the ground. Through
holes bored sideways in the top run a couple
of strands of wire, and twist it up tight.
Strain the fence, and the posts are as rigid
as strainers in the line. Don’t have the
posts to 0 stout; sin. at the small end is
big with gidya posts. Pine ones need to
be about 6in. at the top.
“Karaway”: For conveying bagged pro-
duce, such as potatoes, from field to barn,
a home-made truck with low block wheels
(sawn off a log) is handier and quicker than
a cart, and saves much heavy lifting. With
a removable frame, it is also the most con-
venient for carting in pumpkins.
“Tenrag”: A teat may be badly bruised
by a vigorous calf nipping it, the condition
produced being a tender swelling about half-
way up, with partial closure of the canal. The
proper treatment is bathing with hot water,
and very gentle massage with stainless
iodine ointment, or the application of one
of the commercial clay and glycerine pre-
parations. In severe cases the milk should
be drawn off with a syphon, and properly
sterilised by boiling before use.
“Dimon”: If you are urgently in need of
a bit of solder to stop a leak in a can or
other vessel, the necessary can be melted off
any old tins available, particularly sardine-
tins. Stopping a leak with a rag is a dirty
practice, and only aggravates the complaint.
“Walk-about”: An easy method of re-
moving the hair from the hide of a beast is
to* soak hide or strands in sour milk for a
couple of days. The acids in the milk will
loosen the hair, and it can then be scraped
off quite easily. Nor will the milk affect
the strands if they are afterwards soaked in
water and greased with unsalted fat or soap.
“Bill R.” : When the chafifcutter or engine
belt works to one side of the pulley-wheel
and runs off, it means that the laced ends
do not square truly, and one side of the
belt is longer than the other. Double the
belt with a twist in the middle and overlap
the ends with the sides in perfect line. Then
with a sharp knife trim the ends level.
Butted up together, they will then square,
no matter at what angle the trimming has
been made.
“Werrimee”: The dairies do most of the
bacon-smoking for market; still the farmer
often needs a smoke-house for himself. A
convenient fo'rm is a hut about 10ft. square,
made of concrete or wood' with a firebox on
one side, built outside the line of the wall
for coolness, and a small vent in each top
corner of the hut for the smoke to pass out.
Thus all the smoke goes inside and spreads
round the four walls where the meat or
bacon is hung. The smoke-house may be
made without the firebox, and the fire made
in the centre of the room, but the other way
is more satisfactory.
“Gardener”: Judicious thinning of the
swede crop pays. The first culls, if bunched,
sell well on the vegetable market; so do the
big chaps, bagged or pitted for future use.
The young turnip tops are a substitute for
spinach, as well as providing green feed for
fowls, pigs or cow.
“Searchlight”: In N. S. Wales this year
many French-bean crops were sold at a loss.
The loss could have been turned into a profit
by saving them for seed: clean bean seed
has sold up to 85s. per bushel. Apropos, in
seasons where disease is rampant in beans
it would pay a lot of growers to grow Epi-
cure beans, if they have a private market or
are on a motor route. The Epicure is a
delicious bean and easily prepared for the
table. It crops well on wire-netting trel-
lises or can be grown on poles placed tent
fashion.
“Karaway”: An old tarpaulin that lias
become too holey and torn for general use
can be cut up for cow-rugs. After cutting
out the rugs use the small pieces for patch-
ing the gaps, and sew an opened chaff bag
on the inside. Any old ragged bag will do.
“Johnno” : Queensland practice when lay-
ing down a paddock of Rhodes grass is to
sow r seed in between the rows and lateral
spaces of a crop of maize, the sowing gener-
ally taking place when the crop begins to
cover in. It is better to wait until the
maize shows signs of ripening before getting-
busy with the sowing, as by then the wither-
ing and shrinking leaves will be letting in
the sunlight, when the grass seed will ger-
minate straightway or immediately rain
falls. Weeds and other grasses may be be-
ginning by then to appear, but the fast-
growing Rhodes will quickly overtake these
once it gets a move on. There is always a
risk with early sowing of torrential rains
washing away the seed, especially on a hill-
side. and birds often do a lot of damage by
working over an early-sown paddock.
From U.S.A. comes the news that the
winter wheat crop is estimated at 458,000,000
bushels, compared with 787,000.000 a year
ago. The abandoned acreage amounts to
14 p.c. Spring wheat is considered gener-
ally promising. Cotton crop conditions are
described as fair, but the cotton market con-
tinues nervous. Tobacco prospects are poor
on account of the weather and pests.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to 8 41” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Artist wanted to illustrate book, water-colors and
black-and-white, children and animals, for half share
in copyright and profits.—97sl.
Scot (22), Sydney, exp. all classes farm work,
wants position or will invest in working partnership.
Kefs.—97B2.
Englishman (56) will give services as companion
or secretary in return for good accommodation.
Refs.—9Bo4.
Linotype operator and compositor (Vic.), nine
years’ country exp., wants permanent position.—9776.
Ex-regular officer (35), Sydney, 15 years’ service
army and R.A.F., seeks position as secretary, golf
or social club, or confidential secretary. Refs. —
9742.
Teacher (Vic.), will teach backward or out-back
child by post. Refs.- —9730.
Commercial agent returning to China and Japan,
wishes to get into touch with those interested in
developing reciprocal trade. —9760.
Banana-worker, N.S.W., middle-aged, exp. packer
and chipper, wants employment. Contract or share.
—9830.
Accountant-secretary, wide exp., wants position
needing initiative, in Vic. —9820.
To buy old numbers of “National Geographic Maga-
zine” ; and Blatchford’s “God and My Neighbour.”
—9817.
To buy or borrow copy of “Such Is Life,” by Tom
Collins. —9819.
To buy Cassell’s “Illustrated History of the
Franco-Prussian War, 1870-71,” in two vols. —9709.
To buy “The River Rovers,” by E. J. Brady.—
9734.
To buy back numbers (1915-18) of The Bulletin.
—9798.
To buy Smith’s “Leather Worker,” including
plaiting.—97s4.
To borrow or buy copy of the funeral orations
of Sir James Carroll, published in Gisborne (M.L.)
newspapers in 1926. —9783.
To exchange Bulletin for Melbourne “Grnohic”
each week ; each pay postage.—97l4.
Words of “Auld Lang Syne.”—979l.
Words of verse “Rum and Water.” —9794.
Information Sought.
. If a community in NiS.W. has no recrea-
tion ground will the Government compel the
largest landholder in the district to sell
sufficient land at a price determined by the
Valuer-General, if requested by the sport-
ing bodies concerned? —9218.
By statute, power to acquire land for
such a purpose is vested in local authorities
and in the Crown. The price paid is usually
a matter of arrangement between the par-
ties. In present circumstances those inter-
ested in the matter would probably have to
guarantee to foot the bill whether the local
authority or the Crown made the purchase.
What privileges are conferred upon the
consort of a reigning English queen"? How
many examples have there been in English
history of such personages, and what were
their titles? —9668.
The Constitution provides no special privi-
leges, it being a maxim of English law that
a woman can receive honor from her hus-
band but cannot confer it upon him. There
have only been three consorts in English
history. Philip of Spain, though designated
King Consort, and though the statutes were
enacted under the joint names of “Philip
and Mary,” was most rigidly excluded from
anything more than a nominal dignity, and
in disgust thereat quitted England after a
year. The husband of Queen Victoria again,
after having for years been known simply as
“Prince Albert,” received the title of “Prince
Consort” by individual creation, as he had
previously received that of “Royal High-
ness.” Prince George of Denmark, husband
of Queen Anne, constitutes the remaining
example.
(1) TVns Henry Kingsley, author of “Geof-
fry Hamlyn ,” any relation to Charles
Kingsley, the novelist? (2) During what
years was Henry Kingsley in Australia? (3)
Where and when was “Gcoffry Hamlyn ”
written, ivhen published, and has it any rela-
tion to where he lived here? (4) Did he
write any other books about Australia ?■ —
9653.
(1) A younger brother. (2) He migrated
to Victoria in 1853 to work on the goldfields,
but had no luck there and drifted to the
western district of Victoria, where he stayed
with William Mitchell, of Langawilli. (3)
Written while he was living at Langawilli
and published in 1859 after his return to
England. He mentions the names of many
places in the region between Geelong and
Skipton. (4) Yes, “The Hillyars and the
Burtons” (1865).
Is the rainbow-bird known by any other
name? What are its identifiable characteris-
tics?--—9654.
It is also and better known as the Aus-
tralian bee-eater ( Merops ornatus). It has
brilliant plumage, in which blue, green and
orange predominate. Throughout the greater
part of Australia it is a summer visitor, lay-
ing its white eggs in a hole in sandy ground.
(1) In what circumstances is an offender
declared an habitual criminal in N.8.W.?
(2) For what period is an habitual criminal
kept- a prisoner? —9669.
(1) A Judge may declare any person con-
victed of certain offences for the third or.
in some cases, the fourth time an habitual
criminal. In cases of summary conviction
a stipendiary or police magistrate may direct
an application to be made to a Judge of the
Supreme Court or a Court of Quarter Ses-
sions to have the prisoner declared an habi-
tual criminal. (2) He serves the definite
sentence imposed for the offence of which
he has been convicted, and then is detained
for an indefinite term until deemed fit for
freedom. The indeterminate stage is divided
into three grades—intermediate, higher and
special. A minimum period of four years,
eight months must be spent in the lower
grades before the prisoner can gain admis-
sion to the special grade, wherein cases may
be brought under consideration with a view
to release or license. The released person is
required to report to the authorities at. stated
intervals during a period specified in the
license.
What is the story of the abandonment, of
the steamer Pilbarra in the Pacific about
25 years ag0? —9695.
On the run from Noumea to Suva on
March 4, 1905, she lost her propeller-blades,
and on the night of the 7t,h, drifting close
into the s.-e. point of Erromanga (New
Hebrides), was abandoned. The crew, who
l\ad landed in Dillon Bay, saw her at day-
break drifting into the s.-w., and some of
them rowed after her and boarded her on
the Bth at noon. The s.s. Induna picked up
those of the crew who remained at Dillon
Bay on the 13th, and then set after the
Pilbarra, took her in tow off D’Entrecas-
teaux Reef (New Caledonia) on the 17th
and took her to Vila Harbor (New Hebrides)
on the 21st.
(1) Are naval architects agreed on the
characteristics .necessary in the small ocean
cruising yacht? (2) What size of vessel is
considered necessary to cruise in the open
sea with a fair margin of safety? (3) WAaf
type do you recommend? (4) What rig? —
9696.
(1) Not beyond the main essential —sea-
worthiness. <2) Size hasn’t much to do
with it save that the bigger.the vessel is
the more comfortable she is likely to be at
sea. (3) A 45-footer of liberal beam and
draught, not much overhang fore and aft,
self-bailing cockpit, deep keel (not centre-
board') and an auxiliary engine of ample
power. (4) Ketch.
What conditions of time are described by
the words (1) “epoch;' (2) “era;' (3)
“period,” (4) “cycle”? —969o.
(1) The date of an occurrence that starts
things going under new conditions. (2) The
time during which the conditions started at
an epoch continue. (3) An era regarded
as destined to run its course and be succeeded
by another. (4) A succession of periods
itself succeeded by a similar succession.
(1) Population of Fiji? (2) What is the
range of temperature there? (3) Mow much
rainfall occurs in g year? (4) During what
months are gales likely to blow? (5) Any
Government or other railways? (6) What
currency is used? —9641.
(1) At Dec., 1930, 182,576, including 5078
Europeans. (2) The highest shade tempera-
ture at Suva in 1929 was 91 degrees in
December, and flic lowest 62 degrees in
June, July and August. (3) 110 to 120
inches in the wet area, and 70 to 80 inches
in the dry districts. (4) Between December
and April. (5) No. The Colonial Sugar
Refining Co. owns various tramlines connect-
ing its estates; these tramlines are in
certain cases open to public use. (6) Gov-
ernment notes and British coinage.
(1) Scientifically how would one describe
the Adam’s apple? (2) How did it receive
its name? —9640.
(1) It is the movable projection, more
prominent in males than females, formed in
the front part of the throat by the thyroid
cartilage of the larynx. (2) The name was
given from a legend that a piece of the for-
bidden fruit lodged in Adam’s throat.
What kind of verse are anacreontics?
Dow did they originate? Have any of the
English, poets written them? —9639.
Short lyrical pieces dealing with love and
wine. The English word appears to have
been first used in 1656 by Abraham
Cowley, who called a section of his
poems “anacreontiques,” because they were
paraphrased out of the so-called writings
of Anacreon into a familiar measure,
which was supposed to represent the metre of
the Greek. Half a century later, when the
form had been much cultivated. John Phillips
laid down the arbitary rule that an anacre-
ontic line “consists of seven syllables, with-
out being tied to any certain law of quan-
tity.” In tne eighteenth century William
Oldys was the author of a little piece which
is the perfect type of an anacreontic; this
begins:—
Busy, curious, thirsty fly,
Brink with me, and drink as I;
Freely welcome to my cup,
Could’st thou sip and sip it up.
Make the most of life you may ;
Life is short and wears away.
In 1800 Tom Moore published a collection
of erotic anacreontics.
What is the difference between faun, satyr
and yahoo? —962o.
Faun and satyr are respectively the Latin
and the Greek names for woodland creatures,
half-beast and half-man in form, half-beast
and half-god in nature. The faun is now
regarded as the type of unsophisticated man
and the satyr of unpurified man. Yahoo,
described in “Gulliver’s Travels,” is Swift’s
idea of man in his most despicable form.
(1) What is the difference between the
African and the Indian elephant? (2) At,
what distance can an elephant scent a man?
(3) How long do elephants live ?—963s.
(1) Most distinguishing characteristic of
the African elephant is its enormous ears.
The formation of the skull also differs, the
soft depression found in the head of the
Indian elephant being lacking. (2) There is
evidence that an elephant can scent a man
at a greater distance than any other animal.
The limit may be placed somewhere about
600 yards. (3) In captivity they have been
known to live 120 years.
(1) Number of makes of Q-cyl, cars on
the Australian market? (2) Are G-cyl. cars
increasing? (3) Advantages of six cylinders
over four? (4) Are Q-cyl. cars successful
in racing? (5) Have 6-cyl. cars won classic
races 9 (6) Number of makes of 4cyl. cars
over 18 h.p.? (7) Speed of Baby Austin
( )-cyl.? (8) Difference in running cost
between 0- and 4- cylinder cars? (9)
Type of engine used in Norman Smith’s rac-
ing car? (10) Are Rolls-Royce, Bentley,
Napier and Sunbeam still making 4 -cyl. cars,
and, if so, are they more expensive than
their 6-cyl. cars? (11) Meaning of flexi-
bility? (12) Designer of Rolls-Royce and
“B luebird’ ’ engines ? —9664.
(1) Roughly, about 40, not counting
trucks. (2) Yes, and eights and twelves also.
(3) If power be increased, the number of
cylinders remaining the same, weight
increases more rapidly than h.p. If the
number of cylinders is increased, there, is no
increase of weight per h.p. Adding cylinders
makes for smoother running and less vibra-
tion. (4) Fours and eights have proved more
suitable. (5) Not in recent years. (6)
Very few, and the number is decreasing every
year. (7) The Austin Seven, known as
“Baby,” is 4 cyl. The racing model can do
up to 109 m.p.h. (8) Not much, as sixes are
lighter than fours of the same power. (9)
Three banks of four, known as “Broad
Arrow” design. (10) Rolls-Royce have never
made a four. The other firms no longer
make them. Sixes are the more expensive.
(11) Capability of an engine to “pick up”
from low to high speeds and vice versa. (12 )
Royce designs the Rolls-Royce motors. The
“Bluebird’s” Napier engine was designed
by Capt. Erving.
Oswald Pryor’s Cousin Jacks arc invari-
ably stout fellows, Is this because they are
such toilers, because their home life is
happy, or because of the Cornish pasty?
9824.'
Mr. Pryor explains for himself: “All those
you have seen so far are pre-depression. If
you want them brought up to date I shall
not need to go far for a model. I have never
weighed over 9st. in my life.”
(1) How do the suits score in contract
bridge? (2) How many points to a game?
(3) How do over-tricks score? (4) What
does “vulnerable” imply? (5) How do
honors and slams score? —9769.
(1) By the “Vanderbilt count,” generally
adopted, clubs 20, diamonds 20, hearts 30,
spades 30, no trumps 35 per trick; but in
bidding, spades take precedence over hearts
and diamonds over clubs, as in auction.
(2) 100. (3) Above the line. (4) When
a side has won one game it becomes vul-
nerable, and if it fails to make a contract
after being doubled its opponents score 200
points for first under-trick and 400 points
for each subsequent under-trick. If the side
is not vulnerable and is doubled, the penal-
ties are 100 for first two under-tricks, 200
each for third and fourth. 400 for subse-
quent under-tricks. If a vulnerable declarer
is not doubled, first under-trick counts 100.
each subsequent one 200, to adversaries. If
declarer is not vulnerable, each under-trick
counts only 50 to adversaries. (5) Only
scored when held 4 or 5 in one. hand. No
distinction between suits. Four in one hand
count 100; five, 150. Four aces in no-
trumps, in one hand, 150. Slams score
only if bid. If declarer is vulnerable, grand
slain bid and obtained scores 1500; little
slam, 750. If declarer is not vulnerable,
grand slam bid and obtained, 1000; little
slam, 500.
Principal dimensions of the giant Canard
liner under construction at Clydebank? —
9764.
Length, 1018 ft.; gross tonnage, 73,000;
height to masthead, nearly 250 ft.; depth,
boat-deck to keel, over 100 ft.; number of
decks, 11.
In a tennis match a ball is played into
the net. The player on the other side,
thinking the ball is coming over, strikes at
it and touches the net. Who loses the
stroke ? —9757.
If the player touches the net before the
ball hits it —in other words, while the hall
is still in play—he loses the stroke. This
is a matter of fact for the umpire to decide.
If in the opinion of the umpire the ball,
after striking the net, might have fallen
into the opponent’s court but for the player
striking the net with his racquet, a let
must be declared.
(1) What is the mechanism of the cross-
bow? (2) Shape of arrow or bolt fired?
(3) Wood bow is made of? (4) Would
spring-steel serve for this? (5) Where could'
I see a drawing of a cross-bow? —9481.
(1) A bow is secured to a shoulder-stock.
Owing to the great strength of the bow, a
mechanical contrivance is usually necessary
to draw the string, the most common con-
sisting of an arrangement of a notch and
cog wound with a crank. On the string
being fully drawn it is held by a trigger.
(2) Bolts or “quarrels” usually took the
form of short lengths of metal fashioned
with a heavy head and provided with vanes
to assist in keeping the missile head-on in
flight. (3) and (4) Yew and similar woods
in combination with whalebone were used
in the construction of small cross-bows, but
spring steel was necessary in order to attain
great power. Modern spring steel is ideally
suited for the purpose. (5) Any big dic-
tionary.
Can illegitimate children whose parents
have married after their birth be legitimated
in N.C.W.? If so, what is the procedure,
and where can the necessary forms and full
information be obtained? —9745.
They may be legitimated provided that at
the time of birth there was no legal impedi-
ment to the marriage of the parents. Legiti-
mation is effected on the father of the child
producing to a District Registrar a statu-
tory declaration in the form prescribed, by
the Legitimation Act 1902 and a certified
copy of the entry of his marriage with the
child’s mother. The District Registrar then
registers such child, whether alive or
dead, as the lawful issue of such man and
his wife. Forms obtainable at any District
Registry Office.
(1) What is a Claude Lorraine mirror?
(2) What is its use?- —9743.
(1) A thin black stone, about 3in. by
21in., with a highly-polished, slightly con-
vex side so as to reflect and reduce the
object reflected at the same time. It was
employed by a French artist of that name.
(2) Used to paint the reflection of a sub-
ject instead of painting straight from
nature, as the dark color of the stone
deepens and enriches all the natural tones
and colors in the subject.
Brief Answers.
J.8.M.: Sorry we can’t help yon. but
it would take a Royal Commission six months to
evolve useful answers to your questions... .G.A.:
(1) and (2) “New York Times,” 229 West 43rd-
street, and “New York Herald-Tribune,” 225 West
40th-street—both New York; and “Chicago Tribune,”
Tribune Tower, Chicago. (3) “Variety,” 154 West
4Gth-street, New York, and “The Billboard,” 25
Opera-place, Cincinnati, 0hi0... .E.C.: Write W. W.
Thorpe, Hon. Sec. Anthropological Society of N.S.W.,
Australian Museum, College-street, Sydney... .L.H.:
Property in which a person resides does not affect
the pension. Where a person has property other than
tha home in which he resides, the pension is subject
to a deduction of £1 for every complete £lO by
which the net capital value of such accumulated
property exceeds £5O, or where both husband and
wife are pensioners, £25. No pension is payable
to any person whose net accumulated property (other
than the home in which he resides) exceeds £4OO.
In the case of husband and wife, the combined
property of both is halved... .W.A.: When in 1863
H.M.S. Orpheus (1700 tons) was wrecked on Min-
akau Bar (M.L.), 190 of the crew were drowned;
70 saved. No lives were lost when H.M.S. Osprey,
brig, was totally wrecked off the entrance to False
Hokianga in 1846. . . .P.O’C.: Cordeaux dam, com-
pleted in 1926, has a catchment area of 35 square
miles; its greatest height is 182 ft., length of its
top 1298 ft., capacity 20,600,000,'000ga1s C. J.S.:
James Tyson was born at the Cowpastures (N.S.W.)
on April 11, 1823. He died worth about £2,500,000.
.. . . J.N.: Tailors were the first to form a union in
S. Aus., in 1846 ; their demand for increased wages
was successful... .R.C.C.: North Q’land sunbirds
live on insects and honey. They are the only
Australian representatives of their family, Nectari-
niidce, which is distributed throughout Africa and
Asia; they are not connected with the American
humming-bird. .. .F.C.: Population of N.S.W. in
1857 was 127,287. .. .J.J.8.: Practically hopeless
unless you have had previous experience and belong
to the union... .R.C.H.: Consult H. M. Green’s
“Outline of Australian Literature,” Whitcombe and
Tombs, Sydney... .C.H.: (1) General exemption
allowed from personal exertion income should be
£179. (2) A general exemption commencing at
£250 personal exertion and £2OO property, and
decreasing as the net income increases, is allow-
able to all taxpayers. (3) Not on interest credited
after .July 31, 1931, the date of conversion....
C.S.E.L.: Melbourne (at Dec. 31, ’3l), 1,030,750 ;
Sydney (at Sept. 30, ’3l), 1,261,600. .. .T.M.C.:
The Sydney Technical College’s Tanning School,
Bourke-street, Sydney, will furnish full particulars.
. ...L.W.T.: Write .District Naval Officer, Naval
Staff Office, Beach-road, Edged iff, Sydney... .L.T.
(Grenfell): Mongolian, 680,000,000; Caucasian,
725,000,000 ; Negro, 210,000,000; Semitic,
100,000,000; Malayan, 104,500,000 ; Red Indian,
etc., 30,000,000 T.H.R.: See Wise’s “Making of
the Australian Commonwealth”... .C.M.: The
N.S.W. Moratorium and Interest Reduction (Amend-
ment) Act 1931 expressly provides that all covenants,
agreements or stipulations by a mortgagor for the
payment or repayment of any mortgage moneys
secured by a mortgage of real property shall, except
for the purpose of enabling a mortgagee to exercise
all or any of his rights against the mortgaged
property, be void and of no effect for any purpose
whatsoever. This sweeping provision applies to second
as well as first mortgages... .H.M.: (1) The
value of the production from N.S.W. fisheries
recorded during the year ended June 30, 1930, was
approximately £7l7,0"00. (2) The value of pro-
duction is estimated as at the place of production
and is exclusive of fish condemned, sold in fishing
and other centres and not recorded, or used for fer-
tiliser and oil. It does not include the value of
molluscs other than oysters. .. .A.T.S.: “Common-
wealth Official Year-Book” (55.), obtainable from
Federal Govt. Printer, Canberra. .. .V.S.: The for-
mation of the N.S.W. Egg Marketing Board was
approved by a poll of poultry-farmers on Sept. 21,
1928... .E.J.H.: Full account of disaster in Turner’s
History of Victoria (Vol. I), pages 331-333....
G.M.P.: (1) Can’t say without inspection. (2)
Between 6s. and £4. (3) Between 6s. and 355.
(4) Between 17s. 6d. and £4. (5) Between
12s. 6d. and £2 15s. (6) J. 11. Smyth, Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney... .N.L.M.: The Bellingen
district is excellent for mixed farming... .H.P.W.
Write Technological Museum, Harris-street, Sydney,
for pamphlet “Grass-tree Resin,” 7d G.E.W.:
Write Duttons Inc., 681 Fifth-avenue, New York.
. ...K.S.: Get in touch with the Editor, the
“Northern Territory Times,” Darwin (N.A.)....
A. ? Appears to be mange. Isolate the cat,
wash it in a 1 per cent, solution of cyllin and warm
water, dry thoroughly and then rub storaxol oint-
ment into affected parts. Repeat storaxol treatment
in four days’ time... .P.C.A.; Canaries prefer
Hungarian to red millet. Summer rape is used
because it has not the tendency to scour the birds that
winter rape has W.H.P.: Sub-irrigating is gener-
ally regarded as practicable only for small vegetable
plots and green-house culture. Your piping would cor-
rode A.P.D.: (1) and (2) We can’t prophesy. (3)
No. The Commonwealth is raising a domestic loan
for unemployment relief, and there are other smaller
flotations mooted by States and municipalities....
J.F.: We know of no experiments in connection with
the electrical treatment of soils for the purpose of
destroying insect pests and fertilising the soils. . . .
B. : (1) Continue the treatment, doing it as often
as possible, and three times a day drop in the eye
a 21 per cent, solution of zinc sulphate. (2) This
depends on the amount and type of damage done,
hut it is as well to persevere with the treatment.
. ...J.H.: South Africa grants old-age pensions on
a sliding scale to white and colored persons with
incomes of and under £24 p.a. Maximum grants £3O
p.a. and £lB p.a H.H.: The Q’land Dental
Board will not deal with any application for regi-
stration unless (a) the applicant is within the juris-
diction; (b) appears personally; and (c) per-
sonally submits to the board the credentials on
which he relies for registration... .W.D.: Borradaile’s
“Manual of Zoology,” Marshall and Hurst’s “Prac-
tical Zoology” and Parker and Parker’s “Practical
Zoology”... .F.N.: Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, 62
Gower-street, London, W.C.1.... J. K.: Military knights
of Windsor are a small body of military officers, who
have performed meritorious service, but are not in a
position suitably to maintain themselves. They are
granted pensions ranging from £5O to £l3O p.a.
together with apartments at Windsor Castle
G.S.: The largest of the black cockatoos is the palm
cockatoo ( Probosciger aterrirms ) found in the Aru
Islands, New Guinea, and N.Q W.M.; Specimen
sent is the bark of Daphnandra repandula. Infusions
from it are rich in alkaloids and very poisonous, the
action affecting the heart. The extract retards the
development of septic germs, and will deodorise
putrid meat J.M.M.: “Handy Hints for the
Farm” (Is.), this office. .. .H.T.P.: “Pacific Islands
Year-Book,” 1932, Pacific Publications, 247 George-
street, Sydney... .J.C.J.: No information available.
. ...A.T.A.; Yes, the laughing-jackass and several
other species of kingfishers bore holes in arboreal
termites? nests. The white-tailed kingfisher and
beautiful parrakaet utilise terrestrial termite mounds
for the same purpose (Many others mailed.)


DOPE
By
GRANTLEY LORRENS.
Synopsis : Ernest William Johns ,
M.A. Oxen., now 'precariously subsist-
ing by freelancing, goes for “copy” to
Gabriel’s Heaven, a crowded “dive” in
Sydney. _ Gabriel finds him frantic
for cocaine and, though notoriously
hard, compassionately slips him some,
and Johns is soon confident and ambi-
tious to write again. But the craving
for more “snow” is racking him when
beautiful, but raucous, Etty enters to
fetch away her father, Captain
Smith, bluff with sheer health, whose
schooner. Surf Queen, awaits the
tide. _ Etty tweeJcs the nose of an
insulting half-breed, a knife flashes,
but Johns saves her by instinctively
hurling a bottle before collapsing. He
comes to in a ship’s bunk, with Etty
dosing him with dope.
BOOK I—THE SURF QUEEN.
Chapter 111.
SANITY was coming back to the “dope
fiend” now rapidly. His eyes were
clearing, and they took in the un-
familiar details of his surroundings in some
astonishment. The smell that seemed part
and parcel of the place could be found in
one locale only—it was the inevitable stale
smell of the small sea-going craft.
His eyes came back to the girl.
“Pardon me!” he exclaimed contritely.
“I have not thanked you yet for your kind-
ness ” He made as though to rise, but
the girl held him down with a restraining
hand.
“Don’t be silly,” she said calmly. “Stay
there. You can’t get up yet, even if you
want to.”
Johns shrugged. What was the use?
Courtesy was obviously wasted on this
daughter of the blond-bearded giant.
“It was good of you to give me the
cocaine,” he said a little diffidently. “You
must think me a frightful weakling. With
your health and strength,” he added wist-
fully, “it would hardly be reasonable to
expect sympathy.”
Captain Smith himself put an end to the
rather constrained silence that followed.
Johns had nothing more to say, and Etty
either would not or could not find any
answer to his last remark.
The blond giant came in, as he had
entered Gabriel’s Heaven, bringing with him
the actuality of the sea, and dwarfing, with
his presence, the not over-large cabin. Johns
found himself wondering that there could
still be room for Etty and himself; Captain
Smith appeared to obliterate all the avail-
able space.
“Well, Mister,” the captain said, and his
voice, muted for proximate conversation,
had the deep mellow tones of the jungle
lion. “Awake at last, are ye? Well, I
reckon we owe you something—ditch me
if I don’t!—and we’re going to pay it.”
He stood looking down at the wasted
figure on the settee, and the curling ends of
his golden beard rested on his arms folded
across his chest. His feet were planted
wide apart, in the typical attitude of the
deep-water sailor, and the broad, intellec-
tual forehead looked oddly incongruous
above the rough sea clothes that he wore.
“Pretty tough spin lately, Mister?” he
went on, not giving Johns time to answer.
“Ye look it anyway. Cocaine, eh? Poor
devil!”
The other’s cheeks flushed slightly, but
otherwise he gave no sign of the insult and
mortification that the bluff old skipper’s
words had caused him. That an M.A. Oxon.
should be subjected to such comments was,
of course, preposterous; but then so many
things were preposterous, and yet had be-
come so damnably true since he had taken
his first fatal sniff of cocaine! Even after
three years and more he could never, when
he was in his right mind, his cocainised
mind, resign himself to the thousand and
one humiliations that seemed always to pick
on him as their especial victim. The
sneers of the furtive-eyed men and women
who sold him the stuff when he was in
funds; the disguised, but none the less
obvious, good-natured contempt of the
editor who took his “cop3^.”
But this was no time for introspection.
The giant was still looking at him, waiting
for him to say something, and, after all,
they had been good to him. He must have
lost consciousness back there in Gabriel’s
Heaven, and they had brought him here to
recover.
“Really, it was nothing,” he demurred
courteously. “I managed to wing the
beggar, did I not? My memory is a little
vague, but I fancy that one of those
Spaniards was going to attack your daughter
with a knife?”
“Too right he was!” the blond giant bel-
lowed, and his eyes flashed in angry retro-
spect. “The dam’ crawlin’ ”
“Cut it out, father!” Etty interjected.
“We know all that; and, anyway, why
waste your breath on the scum? What else
would you expect from a wop?”
“You’re right!” her father agreed boister-
ously, flinging one huge arm around the
girl’s shoulders. “It’s this fellow here we
gotta get busy with. Damn the wops an’
to perdition with the whole hell spawn o’
them!” He nodded at the recumbent Johns.
“It’s you, Mister. We owe you a debt
of gratitude—ditch me if we don’t!—and,
by gols, we’re going to pay it!”
“Really, my dear sir, it was nothing.
Any man would have done the same.”
Johns’s voice was weak, but there was a
quality in it that caused the captain to look
closely at the speaker.
“Would they?” he roared genially. “Well,
ditch me if I saw any of them fellows
in Gabriel’s Heaven doing anything but
looking on an’ licking their chops! Oh,
yes, any one of them might have done
the same! The same as that flamin’ wop
tried to do! No, young feller me lad, you
can’t bluff old Bluff Smith like that! If
it hadn’t been for you, Etty here ’d ha’
been somewhere else by now; and I don’t
mind telling you in front of her that I set
a store of value on her life. Nothing’s
too good for the man that saved her,
although, mind you”—he added as an
afterthought—“l wouldn’t make a rash
promise like that to a lot of fellows. But
you’re different.”
Johns flushed again—with pleasure this
time.
“You can be sure I will not take advan-
tage of your candor,” he replied earnestly.
“I am a gentleman—or was once—and I
have a sense of proportion. At times, any-
way, thank God!”
The skipper nodded understandingly.
“But,” the other went on resolutely, “I
am afraid that there is really nothing that
you can do for me. You see, our ways lie
so very far apart. You have the privilege
of health and strength, and the normal
mind. I, on the other hand, am a weakling,
physically at least—and intellectually, too,
in so far as willpower goes—and I am
doomed to drag out a miserable, a
damnably miserable, existence which can
but get worse as time goes on.”
Captain Smith nodded at this, and stood
for some moments fingering his beard.
Johns had the impression that he was still
orientating the meaning of what he had
heard. suddenly he looked at Johns
appraisingly.
“What do you do for a crust?” he asked,
and then, as though suddenly remembering
her presence, he turned to Etty and
motioned her out of the room. “Run away
and play!” he urged her breezily.
The two men watched her go out and
close the door. Then Johns shrugged.
“You display unusual tact, my dear sir,”
he said appreciatively. “You could see that
I would not have cared to discuss my
damnable failure to make a success of life
in front of a woman. And you were quite
right! While lam well supplied, as now
with that infernal cocaine, I have my pride
as strongly developed as ever it was. But
at other times—my God! I crawl and
snivel to anybody who may happen to be
in a position to alleviate my sufferings.”
He frowned at the floor. “But I am not
going to bore you with any damned dida-
scalic diatribe in a vain effort to emulate De
Quincey. I think,” he went on, making as
though to rise, “that I had better go now.
I heard you say, didn’t I, that you were
sailing with the tide?”
Captain Smith snorted contemptuously.
“I don’t know what the hell you’ve been
talking about,” he commented half-jestingly
but with an underlying note of irritation
“but what I do know is this. I’ve taken a
liking to you, Mister, whatever your name
is, and I’m asking you a question, and with
a damned good reason behind it, too,
what’s more, ditch me if it ain’t! What
do you do for a crust?”
“If you mean what do I do to earn a
living,” Johns replied with an assumption
of dignity—“why, I write.”
Astonishment overcame Captain Smith.
“Not poitry?” he queried, and Ernest
William Johns, M.A. Oxon., thought he
detected more than a trace of disappoint-
ment in the other’s face as he made reply:
“No, not poetry—prose. I am, in fact,
what is called a freelance journalist. I
write articles, at times, for the papers.”
“Hell’s bells!” Captain Smith was
bluffly compassionate. “I’ve met you chaps
before. Always hard up, aren’t you? How
much do you make a week?”
Johns shrugged.
“Sometimes ten
pounds; sometimes
two or three.”
The blond giant
nodded understand-
ingly. And some-
times, I reckon, not
two or three pence,
eh, Mister?”
Again Johns
shrugged. “Why, yes,
if you must know,” he
admitted. “Sometimes
not, two or three
pen c e.” He had
taken a liking to this
crude interrogator of his, and his mind,
keen with the cocaine, found a subtle
amusement in being thus pilloried with
embarrassing questions.
Captain Smith sat down on the table and
swung one leg thoughtfully to and fro.
“It ain’t what you’d call a steady job,
sort of?” he suggested tentatively; and
Johns repressed a smile at the elephantine
attempt at subtlety.
“No, decidedly an unsteady job,” he
agreed.
The Captain’s voice sank lower still.
“Say, Mister, what’d you say if I was to
offer you a steady job at, say, two pound
a week, all found, and a health trip chucked
in?”
Johns looked up at the other with a
brilliance in his eyes that was not all due
to the stimulus of the cocaine.
“Why I should say that you had a heart
of gold to make such an offer, having seen
me as you did this evening.” Impulsively,
he laid a hand on the skipper’s knee. “You
overwhelm me with kindness,” he said
huskily, and there was now ho dignity in
his voice, no hint of condescension. “But
—you have forgotten my weakness.”
“Not me, Mister. Ditch me if I have!
I didn’t think a gent, of your learning
would ha’ missed my meaning. You come
along with us, and we’ll see what we can
do with ye. And if you’re broke, old Bluff
Smith don’t mind advancing you a coupla
quid to buy a bit of that damned dope to
take along with you.”
He turned fiercely on the other, but
Johns could not but realise that this fierce-
ness was but a pose wherewith to mask his
eagerness for an affirmative answer to the
question that he flung at him:
“Well, what d’ye say?”
Johns held out his hand. He tried to
rise, but he was still weak and his legs were
groggy at the knees.
“Why, I say, Captain Smith, I surely
shall!” His eyes lighted again. “My God,
sir, you can’t imagine what it will be like
to get away from that sordid life of mine!”
Captain Smith slapped his knee, and a
boisterous gale of laughter announced at
once his pleasure and the relief of the em-
barrassment he had been feeling. Finesse
had never been a strong suit with him.
“Good on you!” he approved. “I knew
ye had the guts.” He frowned fiercely.
“And you’ll need ’em, laddie, before I’m
done with you. I didn’t say no pleasure
trip, mind you, and I’m warning you for
fair now, ditch me if I ain’t, that I’m going
to break you off that damned stuff if I
got to break your neck in doing it. It
won’t be no pleasure trip if you ship with
me. You can mess in the forecastle with
the others—and a damned lot of rascals
they are! I’m none too gentle with ’em
either, I tell you. But they ship with me
all the same. And if you want to know
why, I’ll tell you. It’s because they can’t
get a better berth. So now, mister, you
know, and if you still want to ship with me,
I’ll promise to break you of that damned
dope business. But it won’t be easy for
you. What d’ye say?”
Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon., with a
supreme effort of will, struggled to his feet.
“If you will lend me the two pounds you
promised to,” he said, “I will go ashore
and be back in half an hour ready to sail.”
Chapter IY.
Etty Smith and her father stood at the
stem of the Surf Queen and watched the
deserted. wharf.
“Bet you he doesn’t come back,” Etty
said with a contemptuous snort.
Her father pulled a watch from his
pocket.
“He’s got five minutes yet,” he pointed
out confidently. “He’ll be here all right,
don’t you make any error. He’s a man
despite his sissy ways and his pretty words.
Ditch me if I knew what he was talking
about most of the time in the cabin there,”
he added in boisterous amusement. “But I
reckon we’ll all be talking highbrow in a
week or two, you see if we ain’t.”
Etty snorted again. She knew her father’s
weakness for things highbrow. She had
known him to spend a week over less than
a page of Browning. An odd occupation
for the master of the Surf Queen, she had
often thought. And yet she shared to some
extent her father’s predilections. She was
fond of poetry, but not of the same ilk.
Kipling and Adam Lindsay Gordon had
both written lines that haunted her oddly,
despite tier professed materialism. And
Rupert Brooke had given her anew per-
spective of the seas on which she had been
brought up. It was not until she had read
“Waikiki” that she had realised that the
odd feeling of yearning that the tropic
night had often brought to her was some-
thing shared by other minds. And later
Ernest William Johns, M.A. Oxon., was
to find that while he remembered most of
the words of “Dust,” Etty Smith, the girl
who had tweaked the nose of a half-breed
Spaniard in one of Sydney’s lowest dives,
could recite the poem from beginning to
end, and breathe into it in a voice muted
by the mystery of the tropic night a beauty
and a pathos that once heal’d seemed to
be the essential spirit of the whole world
of Lost Loves.
Captain Smith’s confidence in his protege
was not misplaced. With half a minute
to spare Johns stepped aboard the Surf
Queen, his worldly possessions contained in
one small suitcase.
“Been spending money, Mister?” the
blond giant suggested, with a nod at the
suitcase.
Johns shrugged. “I have; but the result
is not in there.” He tapped his breast-pocket.
“It is here,” he added significantly. “And
I’d like a talk with you about it, if I may.”
Captain Smith nodded. “Aye,” he agreed.
“But not now. We’re sailing straight away.
And there’s a couple of hours of hard graft
ahead of you. But after that when we
get clear of land I’ll be ready to listen to
you.”
He turned forward to where the mate and
the crew, eight all told, were standing by.
And his voice, as he issued orders, boomed
out across the still waters that lay half-
shrouded in the morning mists.
Johns suddenly realised with a start that
neither he nor the other two had been to
bed that night, and he eyed the girl and
her father in astonishment. They both
appeared to be as fresh as though they had
just risen from a good night’s rest. He was
more than a little surprised to feel so fit
himself, but a moment’s consideration dis-
covered the reason in the excitement engen-
dered by the night’s events, culminating in
this sudden change of fortunes. But with
the other two such causes did not obtain.
Sheer physical fitness was the reason with
them. He felt his spirits lift suddenly;
perhaps he too could win back to normal
health —of mind rather than body—during
the next few months.
He was called out of his day-dream by
the heavy hand of Captain Smith falling
on his shoulder.
“Reckon those orders all sounded gibber-
ish to you?” he asked, jerking his head in
the direction of the suddenly-activated
crew; and Johns, as he watched them jug-
gling with the sails and tackle, nodded
apologetically.
“All gibberish, of course,” he answered.
“This is the first time in my life that I
have been on anything that does not go by
steam or petrol. But I suppose I can
learn.”
“Do you know port from starboard?”
“Yes.'” Ernest William Johns, M.A.
Oxon., who had once lectured to classes of
young men on the higher theses of mathe-
matics, answered the question with all the
pleased eagerness of a child. At any other
time he would have laughed at the bathos
of it, but there, on the bosom of the still
waters, the question and its answer had
suddenly taken on a paramount importance.
“Well, that’s something!” the blond giant
boomed with an access of geniality. “Ditch
me if I don’t turn you into a blooming
second before I’m finished with you. Come
on, now, and do as I tell you. When I
say one point to starboard you do this,
see?” He demonstrated the execution of
the various commands, and Johns nodded
as each explanation sank in.
“All right,” Captain Smith announced when
he had finished, and he gave the order to
cast off. “Now you spring to it when I
speak, and everything’ll be fine. But mind
she doesn’t pull your arms out after we
get through the Heads.”
The next hour and a half held more of
fascination for Johns than he had thought
possible. There was something irresistible
in the charm of feeling the Surf Queen
yield to his touch, and, in the words of
Captain Smith, he “took to it like a fish
to water.”
But a surprise was waiting for him as the
Surf Queen nosed her way out of the har-
bor and through the Heads. It was a calm
day, and the ocean looked almost as smooth
as the harbor; but no sooner did the
Surf Queen lift to the long Pacific swells
that rolled in through the Heads than Johns
felt the wheel straining in his hands as the
rudder sought to yield to the caress of the
ocean. There was no steam-driven steer-
ing gear aboard the Surf Queen, and Johns
learnt for the first time the force that lay
behind the easy undulations of the un-
ruffled ocean.
Long before his first trick at the wheel
was over he felt his hands grow to two
masses of red-hot pain, but he stuck grimly
on. He sensed, rather than knew, that
Etty Smith was watching him, waiting to
see how he would pan out in the test; and
for some inexplicable reason he was ridi-
culously anxious to gain the approval of
the girl.
But at the end of three hours the effects
of his last dose of “snow” were beginning
to wear off, and more rapidly than usual,
thanks to the unwonted physical strain.
Once or twice he caught himself muttering
to himself. Odd snatches of verse, and an
occasional phrase or two remembered from
one of Joseph Conrad’s romances.
Captain Smith had gone below, but Etty
still remained on deck, and the mate was
in charge. Johns had not heard the latter’s
name as yet, nor had he spoken to him, and
he found himself thinking that the loss was
certainly not his.


Q
:
m
Si
(!>v^
IT
1
V
m
';l
• New 4-speert Gear
Box
• New Stronger Front
Cross Member
• New Heavier Front
reater strength and
increased power • • • from
these Ford Truck improvements!
THE recent important improvements to
the Ford 30 cwt. Truck greatly extend
the strength, performance and value of a
truck already famous for its power, speed,
strength, low price and low running costs.
Power and Speed. . .Tremendous pulling
power and higher road speeds result from
the New 4-speed Gear Box ... 5 ball and
roller bearings in the gear box mean that
in all forward speeds the entire drive (from
engine to road wheels) is' on frictionless
bearings ... A Power Take-off is provided
for tipping or for belt-work jobs.
Added Strength . . . comes from the New
Heavier 2|" Front Spring and the New
Stronger Front Cross Member. This
re-designed, stronger front suspension
will stand up to heaviest work at
speed over rough tracks, and
relieves radiator, engine, clutch
ê
and transmission from all road strains.
Add to the above improvements the exist-
ing Ford advantages of torque-tube drive
and radius-rod construction, and you have
a 30 cwt. truck unequalled for Australia’s
strenuous conditions. The Ford is now a
heavy-duty truck in every detail. Ford
design relieves the springs of all driving
strain, keeps axles always in alignment,
reduces tyre wear and allows positive set-
ting of brakes. Ford economy, too, is re-
markable —3d. per ton-mile on a 100-mile-
day basis is an average figure.
Two chassis sizes are available—l3l£"
wheelbase for 9' x 6' bodies; 157" for
bodies 11' 6" x6'6*... Malleable steel
wheels, with dual wheels at rear, are op-
tional at extra cost. Your nearest
Ford Dealer can supply facts re-
garding Ford low haulage costs.
THE BRITISH EMPIRE TRUCK
from £230, f.o.b. nearest Ford Works; Sales Tax extra.
NC/58
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUST RALIA PTY. LTD
An unprepossessing devil, that mate, if
ever there was one! Unpleasant eyes, too!
Nasty eyes, he told himself, dangerous eyes.
They reminded him of a fish that he had
once seen stranded on the beach: its eyes
had had the same bloated, filmy look about
them; a greenish pupil with the red-streaked
white’ around it, like some ungodly halo.
Green eyes Green grow the rushes, oh!
here, hold up! That won’t do not
on watch responsibility....
With an effort he pulled himself back
from the maze of jumbled thoughts that
were taking control of his brain, and fixed
his eyes on the binnacle. That pointer was
off the line —which way should he turn the
wheel ?
Red-hot needles shot through his hands
and up his arms as he slowly turned the
spokes of the wheel. God! but it was heavy
the rudder must have fouled something;
it was like a ton weight. Perhaps an octo-
pus was toying with it! He heard himself
laugh feebly at the idea no right to be
laughing “the loud laugh that spake the
vacant mind”— Goldsmith Come up
there!
Those needles were playing havoc with
his hands, and the sea had suddenly started
to roar in his ears curse it, he was going
out to it again!
He made an effort to pull himself to-
gether. What would the girl think of him?
The Toreador’s Song, with its haunting re-
frain, ran through his mind Those sails
—had they gone mad?
Suddenly the wheel spun itself from his
grasp like a live thing, and, as the sails
flapped in the wind, he heard a roar from
behind him. Then something hit him on
the head. He felt himself crash against
the wheel, and then consciousness fled.
It was the mate who had attacked him.
A cowardly blow it had been from behind;
but, in the circumstances, it was not un-
justified. To the mate, Ernest William
Johns, M.A. Oxon., had been simply the
man at the wheel, and the lapse from duty
whereby the Surf Queen had suddenly
slewed off into the wind, so that she lost,
her way and rolled dangerously as the sails
flapped impotently, had been a lapse pun-
ishable in the recognised way. Ols Jornsen
had been born and bred in an atmosphere
of traditions reaching back to the days
when his forefathers had led the world m
seamanship, and his forebears for generations
had wrested their living from the sea. And,
whatever Ols Jornsen might be or do on
land, no one would have denied his quality
as a seaman and his capacity to keep in
order the riff-raff collection that the fore-
castle of the Surf Queen harbored. Ole
was a blue-water sailor, and his methods
had so far stood him in good stead.
In ordinary circumstances Etty Smith,
who had been an onlooker, would have
taken no notice of such an incident, but
Johns had struck a chord in her suscepti-
bilities, and for the first time that she could
remember she felt pity for one of the mate s
victims. Hitherto the men who had shipped
as crew on board the Surf Queen had been
of far less importance to her than so many
animals—she had, in fact, never seen an
animal, no matter how humble, *in pain
without being distressed about it—but the
very contrast between Johns in his right
mind, his cocainised mind, and Johns suf-
fering from the effects of deprivation of the
drug, had stirred something in her. In
modern jargon, had stirred one of her com-
plexes—the mothering instinct that is in
every woman.
As Johns fell to the deck she sprang for-
ward, and Ols Jornsen staggered under the
weight of the open-fisted blow that he re-
ceived. He turned round with a snarl to
face his assailant, and then, as he realised
that it was the girl who had struck him, he
dropped his hands and stood staring
stupidly at her.
“Coward!” she flung at him, and her eyes
blazed. “Pick him up and take him to
the cabin.”
She took the wheel and dexterously
righted the vessel. She watched Ols walk
with his burden, which he carried as easily
as if it had been a baby, to the doorway,
and then she turned on the crew who stood
grinning at the little comedy.
“Scat!” she ordered contemptuously, and,
as if they had been so many animals, they
obeyed the command.
Left alone she laughed a little breath-
lessly. She had done something which she
was afraid would far from please her father.
He had already told her that he had im-
pressed on Johns the fact that he was to be
treated as one of the crew and nothing
more, and now, within an hour or so of
leaving port, she had seen to it that he
had received treatment that “one of the crew
and nothing more” would never have re-
ceived! By making Ols take him to the
cabin she had definitely given Johns the
status of a privileged person, and she knew
that, no matter what her father might think
of her action, he would never publicly dis-
approve of it. However, it was done now;
and she was not sorry that it was so. With
an impatient shrug she brushed away the
thoughts that were creeping into her mind,
and gave all her attention to the wheel.
When the mate returned to the deck she
affected to be unaware of his presence, an*d
continued to ignore him even after he steed
beside her at the wheel.
“Why you bane angry?” he asked at
length, with the tone of a sulky child.
“Why shouldn’t I be?”
“I bane no coward,” the Swede said
aggressively. “Why you spik so?”
Etty shrugged. “There was no need to
hit him—he was going to faint anyway.
Besides, he’s not one of the usual drunken
swine you get aboard for us; you hit your
own kind.”
The Swede flushed angrily, and his eyes,
with a hurt look in them, seemed more un-
pleasant than usual.
“I bane no goot to you now,” he mut-
tered. “You theenk dam’ chicken white-
face more better talk to, eh?”
Etty sneered at him. “Who ever thought
I wanted to talk to you?” she asked, and
her voice cut him like a knife. “When you
come along and thrust your company on a
girl, what can she do but answer? But
me, I never wanted to talk to you. Drunk-
ards ain’t in my line!”
Ols Jornsen flinched, not so much at the
words as at the tone in which they were
uttered.
“I try,” he said, “but you no help. You
no have interest. What for I care then?
Eh? What good trying? Me, I go out
next port and set bleethered. eh! Forget.’
“Oh, shut up!” Etty flung at him. “You
gimme a pain. Take the wheel. Me, m
going down to see if you’ve killed him.”
Ols took the wheel in one brawny fist
and shook the other in the girl’s face.
“I theenk no such luck!” he snarled. ‘ But
you wait; I keel him dam’ • queeck preety
soon, I theenk!”
Etty laughed contemptuously as she
started towards the cabin.
“Awright!” muttered Ols to the unrespon-
sive wheel. “You wait!”
(To be continued next week.)
To You.
My heart is singing all day long
Because of love and you.
A little gay heart-breaking song
Of roses and of rue.
Still must I sing, though song be vain
As love’s forbidden fire;
Yet hear my broken, sombre strain
That mocks its own desire.
Not Mitylene’s blazing, skies
Nor Sappho’s lyric line
Lent love such bitter sweet as lies
In these poor words of mine.
You are my vale of Avalon,
My bourne of Paradise;
Tlie dawn that o’er Hy-Brasil shone
Laughs, mirrored in your eyes.
The star that is your heart, above
Life’s haunted twilight gleams;
Hesperia, lovelier than love,
Diviner than my dreams!
Could I appraise you calmly, note
The faults that leave more fair,
Your pearl-carved leopard-lissome throat,
The dark flame of your hair,
Then peradventure my heart’s core
Might hunger for you less—-
This foolish heart that loves you more
For your - dear humanness.
One swift sweet hour love’s lips are red !
Life holds no more than this —
A song unsung, a tear unshed
And one remembered kiss!
Will you remember when the bowl
Of wine-red days grows wan
The fool whose heart, a burning coal,
Was yours in years long gone?
Soft hand, in mine so lightly curled,
Dear lips that mine have met,
You will forget me, but the world
Shall end when I forget.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


TLE’s TABL E T EVERY DAY-
r X+a F .
9
e/rr
K
CHo
s2Sat
Z'Th
O^o
1 /•
“Specially prepared for sports-
men. Bitter - sweet and
smooth-eating, it is both
nourishing and sustaining.”
Nestled
OUTDOOR CHOCOLATE*
TAKE
v H
ESTLE’s tablet home tonight
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station )
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Baths
tr
35
33
if
5,
Mt
ii
E* 5 5*
Hi* si?
BSffi
?*n
liJi
!i it
iUJ
Hi
»
Melbourne's Most Modern Hotel
Tariff per day: .
Room and meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from 12/6
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Lang Government fell at six o’clock
oir Friday evening, aud 18* hours later the
click of the Julius machines, which it had
silenced for four weeks, was heard at Rand-
wick. This was sweet music to the tote
employees, many of whom, men and women,
had had a lean time. Lang will get few
votes from racing people, whom he has hurt
severely with liis tax on winning bets and
his tote interdict, though, no doubt, the tin-
hare crowd will be behind him to a man.
The tote soon demonstrated to the small
punter its superiority over concession betting
and the “place” prices offered by the persons
who operated at suburban meetings while
the ban was on. Backers of Orby Anthus
for the Flying Handicap got a better return
from the straight-out machine (£4 15s. for
10s. with tax deducted) than those who took
8 to 1, tax included, as many did; and
Killarney (third) yielded £3 14s. 6d. for 10s.
—excellent odds, considering that the old
fellow had run prominently in all his recent
races. McShortodds offered tens s.o. Whit-
tingham, the favorite, was a close second.
Anchor (7 to 1) looked all over a winner
when five of the six furlongs had been tra-
versed, but could not sustain his run.
Spartel (20 to 1) had a runaway win in
Tattersall’s Stakes, and his backers on the
10s. tote collected the truly wonderful divs.
of £lB Bs. 6d. s.o. and £6 10s. for a place.
Yet a close third to Circus Star and Irish
Eyes at Warwick Farm entitled this Tre-
clare mare to more consideration. Khar-
toum, the warm favorite, was third —he is
evidently not much good. William Kelso,
Gert/I think I've tried evert
, Kind of mfs made?
Bert*. I've tried quite a number
MYSELF,"
Qe rt I *And which do you fino
THE BEST ?' n
_ «
Bert '. Those that other
people lose*.
who trains liim, had the unenviable experi-
ence of seeing Vista (8 to 1), the Rossendale
gelding lie trains for “D. Lewisford,” go
under, after a neck-and-neck struggle in
which form was thoroughly exposed, to
Diamond de Rouge (7 to 1), a Maoriland-
bred gelding by Hunting Song—Perle de
Rouge, who may be a Newmarket horse in
the making. He made the same time for six
furlongs as Orby Anthus—lmin. llfsec •
Delmond, the third horse (tote div.’ £6 17s j!
was four lengths away.
• • • • • •
The contest for the James Barnes Stakes
was delayed for several minutes by the antics
of Fair Money and Exact (12 to 1), the
mare especially; she kicked out at everything
within reach. Asa result she got the worst
of the start; had it been otherwise she
might have won, as she finished at a rare
bat, erratically at that. She could not quite
catch Troilus (10 to 1)- Chide (5 to 1)
also doing well at the end, was third and
Gallant Top next. Rogerson. the favorite
made no show, but a kick from Exact severed
a vein in one of his thighs. It is a long
time since Troilus was seen to much advan-
tage, nor have Walker, the trainer, and
Bartl\ the Jockey, had much luck this year.
m ~ . , . ■,
,X r TJtJ ande £ a -, good sta ,kc. nf a long
)’ Rm framer Henderson and his followers
’ a !; h it?^ el i e . r ' IlandiCß-p. Fho general quote
t TT I i ; 11 t i he t w e l i aid and
fppnnß rS q 0 waa
second and Mr. Kerry thud. Sun Eagle ana
Wker« fif’, flattered their
backeis for a Dme, and them turn should
cme presently both looked well.
tt. , j "
For Rosehill on Saturday :
Hlying Handicap: Cleave; next, Sunlit
Reef- ,
Canterbury Handicap: Intrepid; next,
Flinders.
Trial Stakes: Rowan; next, Irish Eyes.
Ashbury Handicap: New King; next,
Alienor.
With entries for the V.R.C. Grand
Nationals closing three days later, the rac-
ing at Moonee Valley at the week-end was
imbued with particular interest. Twelve
horses completed in the Banya Hurdle, and
the Brunswick Steeplechase had to be run
in divisions. Claude Grice rode his horse
blectstone to victory in the Grand National
Steeplechase of 1924, and seems to be in
line for another success in the cross-country
event. In conjunction with James Clark,
of Moora station, near Echuca, Grice races
Isauru, who staged a brilliant come-back by
taking the first division of the Brunswick
Steeplechase.
Claude Grice, who was pronounced by the
late Justin Curr to be the equal of any
professional jockey over fences, does not
now ride in open steeplechases and rarely as
an amateur. Age has lessened the skill and
vigor with which he was able to get the
better of Jack Sing in a bitter finish when
Fleetstone beat Ilaoma at Flemington. (Sing,
by the way, has returned to the saddle.)
Nauru had not sported silk since March 4,
of last year, when, with Bob Inkson up, he
started favorite for the V.R.C. March Steeple-
chase and was rather easily vanquished by
Good Whisky. At the beginning of that year
he landed a Steeplechasers’ Flat in Williams-
town. Probably something went amiss with
Traquair’s grandson in liis Flemington out-
ing, as Grice put him by for many months.
His “Valley” victory points to Nauru as
a potential Grand National winner. The
unusual procedure was adopted of jumping
him over three Caulfield fences on the morn-
ing of the race. Stable connections displayed
their confidence in the son of Blairmount
being able to win “first up.” Precocious was
always favorite, and started at 3 to 1, half
a point shorter than Mosstrooper’s half-
brother Jumna; but Nauru went out in firm
demand at 4 to 1. In trying to follow the
fast pace that Sir Widgee set, Jumna crashed
into the second fence and somersaulted.
Except for one blunder, which almost un-
seated the jockey. Nauru fenced well. He
experienced no difficulty in shaking off Pre-
cocious (half-brother to Rakwool, last
season’s Grand National hero), and scored,
easing up, from the fast-finishing Wirrate,
an improving novice.
In 1931 the Brunswick Steeplechase at
Moonee Valley resulted in Tetcott inflicting
a six-length defeat on Rakwool. Tetcott, who
belongs to R. M. Cuthbertson, M.L.C. and
man of affairs to the “Money” Miller family,
competed again on Saturday, but was unable
to long maintain his role of flying pace-
maker. Tetcott —like Nauru, by a son of
Traquair—was pulled up six furlongs from
home. His jockey, A. Fullarton, explained
that the gelding was distressed. Victory was
registered in the easiest possible fashion by
Solo King, the 5-to-2 favorite, who completed
a winning double over fences for R. Inkson.
Solo King has a record of two wins in as
many starts as a steeplechaser, and he pro-
mises to do trainer F. W. H'oysted as much
credit as Rakwool did 12 months ago. Minor
places were filled by Tezpur and Venetian,
who are novices at the game. Tezpur belongs
to Gus Powell, the owner-trainer of Moss-
trooper and Jumna.
Two seasons ago Black Devil (Lanius —
Miss Charlotte) finished second to Affirm in
the Maiden Hurdle at the V.R.C. Grand'
National meeting, being then only a three-
year-old. He had done nothing of note in
the interim, yet met with fair support for
the Banya Hurdle at Moonee Valley, and,
coming at the right end, comfortably disposed
of Ithuriel. Latter, a cast-off from the
stable of Eric Connolly, is a brother to The
Dimmer. Ithuriel improved on his recent
efforts as a hurdler and will make good at
the game. Laniroi, the favorite, missed a
place.. The fact of his jockey
having been struck in the eye by a clot of
dirt may have had something to do with
the Bendigo’s horse’s failure. King Pos, a
heavily-backed novice, fell at the first flight
Royal Raven came to grief immediately after-
wards, and, dislocating a fetlock, had to be
destroyed. The Hurdle Race form was not
nearly so illuminating as that in the Bruns-
wick Steeplechase.
Pacific Flight gave Heroic another stud
advertisement by landing the Two- and
Three-year-old Handicap. Because of his pre-
vious victories being achieved at Ascot and
minor country meetings, “Valley” punters
allowed Pacific Flight to go out at 15 to 1;
yet he made the opposition look cheap. Cecil
Godby and his followers plunged on the grey
Ethiopian gelding Count Orloff; but, though
bestridden by Duncan, this hotpot missed
a place. After losing 20 lengths at the start
of the Nonga Handicap, Thrawn finished
second. Backers had further reason to be-
moan their fate when old Highland missed
the jump-out in the last event and finished
outside the money.
* * * *
For Williamstown on Saturday:—
Bay View Handicap: Thrawn or Karomin.
Gellibrand Handicap: High Brae or
Valiant Maid.
* * * *
R. J. Mason did not long survive Gloaming,
dying in Maoriland almost exactly a week
after the horse. Mason had an extra-
ordinarily successful career as a trainer from,
the time he gave up riding in 1876, after
a brief and successful career as first horse-
man to Henry Redwood, one .of the stal-
warts of the M.L. turf of those days. In
1887 he became trainer to G. G. Stead, and
in this position put up a winning record
that has rarely been equalled. Outstanding
was the showing of his charges at the A.J.C.
meeting in 1905, when he took nine races,
including the Derby with Noctuiform. The
others of that triumphant string were Isolt,
Maniapoto, Sungod and Nightfall. On the
death of his employer in 1908, Mason joined
up with Gloaming’s owner, G. D. Green-
wood, with what success everyone knows.
His wins included 30 Derbies and most of
the important races in M.L. and Australia.
He weighed out at 79.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Bulgarian George Penchiff (13.10) began
wrestling much faster than Tom Lurich
(14.2) at Leichhardt last Saturday night.
and a capacity crowd thought he would win.
Besides being the speedier, the Slav seemed
stronger. He outwrestled the Russian until
that guileful grappler got his body scissors
to work and won the first fall. Pencliiff
got even with a crucifix hold, hut a kick
flush on the face sent him to sleep in the
sixth, and Lurich, falling on his unconscious
foe, gained the decider.
>S * * Si!
“Bloggs”: I have often witnessed the spec-
tacle of pugs in floods of tears in the ring.
I saw a Yankee middleweight, who shall be
nameless, bite a piece out of a nigger who
was licking him in Sydney 20-odd years ago.
A year or two later I saw Peter Felix go
deathly pale in the ring, a weird sight. That
was when Jack Johnson—then an unknown to
nearly everybody save Felix —advanced to ex-
terminate the other coon. Many pugs make
the sign of the cross before starting opera-
tions, and I have seen Johnny Summers, when
lightweight champion of England, do it be-
fore every round of a 20-round bout. But
I never thought to see kiss-in-the-ring at a
championship scrap, and I never did till
the other night at Sydney Stadium when
Ambrose Palmer kissed one of his seconds
(his father) before beginning operations on
Campbell, of M.L. Most scrappers look ter-
rible, at any rate in action, but under their
skins they’re as mushy and emotion-driven
as girls.
Footbrawl
Saturday’s Melbourne League games fur-
nished a couple of vimful matches full of
thrills. Carlton, determined to show that
its defeats by Fitzroy and South Melbourne
were mere accidents, visited Richmond, and
set going its famous drives against the
Tigers. Latter’s fine marking and system-
atic play kept the Blues in check, and
would probably have brought the locals out
on top but for lamentable goal-shooting in
the last quarter. Thirty thousand barrack-
ers roared as the minutes flew by, nearly fall
ing into hysterics as the bell rang with Carl-
ton a point ahead —84 to 83. Out at Essen-
don Collingwood, playing five new men, held
the home side to half-time; in the next term
the ’Don mosquito forwards got going and
secured a 19-point lead. The last quarter,
however, saw an old-time Collingwood finish,
and they went home with the honors by 9
points—ll 9to 110. South Melbourne, at
home, had the better of Footscray all
through the argument, winding up with 71
to Footseray’s 00. Hawthorn put Melbourne
through its facings, notching its first win
for the season with 59 points to the Red
Legs’ 50. Geelong had an afternoon’s prac-
tice, Avhile St. Kilda looked on—Geelong,
100; St. Kilda, 45. North Melbourne re-
turned from Fitzroy. in great heart, having
downed the Maroons by 113 to 94, the first
victory after 33 successive lickings.
* * * *
The first round of the inter-State football
season ended on Saturday, when N.S.W. beat
Queensland in Toowoomba under the Rugby
Union code, and the Dengue teams from the
two States drew, in Sydney. The Union
game, first of its kind to be played in the
Darling Downs metropolis, saw N.S.W. win
16-8, or 4 tries, 2 converted, to two tries, one
converted. The N.S.W. forwards were the
better vanguard, and scored all the tries,
Louden, of Manly, collecting two. Queens-
land again made a desperate attempt to
snatch the game from the fire in the second
spell as they had done in Brisbane, but could
only tack on 5 points to 3 by the opposition.
Three of the Queensland star backs did not
turn out, preferring to play club football in
Brisbane. It is to be hoped that the selec-
tors will keep this in, mind when the time
comes to choose the team for the Sydney trip
in August. Lawton again showed super-
lative form for the losers, but Broadfoot,
taking the scrum vice Bennett at short
notice, merits special mention.
'** * *
The return match between the N.S.W.
and Queensland Leagues at Sydney Sports
Ground ended in a 9-9 draw. Each side
scored a try, and N.S.W. added 3 penalty
goals. The Queenslanders converted their
try and added two penalties. After the
trouncing administered by Queensland in the
first match, hopes were not bright for
N.S.W.; albeit, the selectors made drastic
changes in the team, including a number of
country players. These justified their selec-
tion, scoring all their side’s points. Queens-
land were handicapped by the absence of
Maloney, who had scored 17 points the week
before, and their clever scrum half Gilbert.
A great asset to N.S.W. was the inclusion
of the Kangaroo and Temora five-eighth Eric
Weissel.
(Continued on page 31.)
Australia cleared its first Davis Cup
hurdle by beating Cuba at Havana in the
first two singles and the doubles. All the
same, the form shown against the weak
Cubans is not reassuring. After Crawford
had won the first two sets, Morale, Cuba’s
second string, ran him to 7-5 in the third,
while Hopman took four sets t 0 beat Voll-
mer. The doubles also went to four sets,
the locals winning the first. Crawford is
said to be suffering from asthma again, which
is bad news, though this may pass with de-
parture from steamy Havana. America dis-
posed of Mexico very easily, and on the
form to date should beat our men on May 28.
* * * %
The Head-of-the-River eight-oar race
between the Victorian Great Public Schools
last week drew the usual huge crowd to
Yarra’s banks. The three schools left in
the final were Melbourne Grammar, Gee-
long Grammar and Wesley College, and they
finished in that order. Melbourne, winning
by a length and a quarter, was stroked by
E. D. Scott, and covered the mile course in
5min. 13sec.


e
è
The Man who has revitalised thousands
of neurasthenic cases.
.eft
A* E you held back by worried
fears? Have you the ability to
forget yourself when in company?
Or are you troubled with self-con-
sciousness, anxiety, sensitiveness and
fear of criticism? then you lack
self-confidence. You are missing the
good things of life!
HOW TO STRENGTHEN YOUR
NERVES.
No tonic or magic system of exercise can ever
restore the health and vigor to weak, sick,
unbalanced nerves. To regenerate lost nerve
force, to build up strong, sound nerves, requires
an understanding of the action and abuses of
the nerves. It needs knowledge of the natural
laws of nerve fatigue, of mental and physical
relaxation and nerve metabolism. And it is
only through the application of these laws that
stubborn eases of Nerve Exhaustion can be
overcome.
READ THIS WONDERFUL BOOK—
FREE.
Based upon many years of intensive experience
and study, the famous author Frederick Gray
has written a remarkable book entitled “Nerve
Strength, Self-Consciousness and Personality.”
In plain language he gives certain easy-to-
follow rules that have enabled thousands of
men and women to regain their lost nervous
energy and to acquire glowing health and
usefui vitality. It enables you to form a cor-
rect understanding of your own case, and
shows you how to bring back your nervous
vitality.
“Nerve Strength, Self-Consciousness and Per-
sonality” is worth its weight in gold—and
yet it costs you nothing. This book will prove
a revelation to you. It will help you through-
out your entire life; it will help you to
build for yourself a solid foundation for your
future success and happiness. . Mail coupon
for your copy to-day.
MAIL NOW!
FREDERICK GRAY, DEPT. 6,
Lombard Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me a copy of your book, “Nerve
Strength, Self-Consciousness and Personality.”
1 am enclosing 4d. in stamps to cover cost of
postage. This places me under no obligation
whatever.
Name
Address 18/5/’32
AN INEXPENSIVE STOCK SADDLE
. :,V
Price Bare
£5/2/6
Mounts extra.
Leathers 6/-
Girth . . 5/-
N.P. Irons 6/6
Complete £6
Freight paid for cash
with order to any
N.S.W. railway station.
THE “STOCKRIDER”
This saddle is exceptionally good value
for the money, and has pigskin seat
and capped pads set well up along the
rider’s thighs. The position of the pads
gives greater security to the rider.
N° 8
STATION
STOCK
WHIPS
ALL KANGAROO
PLAITED INSIDE
BELLIES.
Write for list of cheap saddles, bridles, whips, collars, &c.
WALTHER & STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 George Street, Sydney.
35 YEARS’ TRUTHFUL ADVERTISING.
No, 8, with 10-plait handle, and
7ft. 10-plait thong . . 19/6
No. 9, with 12-plait handle, and
Bft. 12-plait thong . . 25/-
P©stage': N.S.W. 1/-, Q’l’d and Vie. 1/6.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray” : How tight a hand Australian
football clubs in Melbourne keep on their
employees is seen in a recent case discussed
in the daily papers. The player in question
showed uncommonly bad form last season,
and was suspected by his club of desiring
to transfer to a rival body. Finding himself
somewhat in the cold this year, lie asked the
officials to say frankly what his chances of
getting into the club team were. He was
told that no clearance to another club would
be issued on any account. If he would play
with his old club he would be placed on the
same scale of payment as the other members
of the team. But the brass would be with-
held until the end of the season. If he car-
ried out his contract and played up to form
he would draw the lot then. If he needed
something meantime to carry on with the
finance committee would consider any appli-
cation.
“Hotham” : It was bound to come at last.
The Melbourne Metropolitan Amateur Foot-
ball Association has decided to refuse per-
mits to play to all who have accepted money
for taking part in other sports. The move
is the more sensational since it debars E. L.
a’Beckett, the Australian Eleven cricketer,
from taking part in Australian football, in
which he is an adept, under the banner of
the Melbourne amateur body. The move is
justified by the association’s rules, which
admit of no ambiguity. Reinstatement may
be applied for, but only two years after the
date of the last infringement. Others affected
are Barnett, the Victorian wicket-keeper;
Oakley, the Victorian batsman, and Cordner
and Hassett, both inter-State bowlers and
well-known footballers.
* * * *
“Glenelg” : Charles Hayter, who will man-
age the South Australian football team which
is to invade Victoria in June, is secretary
of the Port Adelaide club. Formerly he
was a marine engineer in the State Govern-
ment service, and is now a prominent offi-
cial of the association of masters, mates and
engineers. His football activities go back
to early childhood, and later he played the
game in Port Adelaide and Port Pirie. As
secretary, he has done a lot to revive the
old seaport club and place it on its present
footing, and his reputation as an organiser
stands high with the football community of
the Central State.
* * * *
“Old Q.” : The inter-State match between
the N.S.W. and Queensland Rugby Unions
at Brisbane celebrated the golden jubilee
of this series. The first match was
played in Sydney, the Queenslanders then
styling themselves the Northern Rugby
Union. N.S.W. won the game by 28 to 4,
but since the Queensland Union had only
been formed a month or two earlier, most of
the men having played no other football but
the Australian variety, it was hardly a fair
test. The visitors did a bit better in the
return match, going down by 18 to nil, but
they had their revenge in 1883 _ at Bris -
bane, when they got home in the third match
by 12-11. For many years only two inter-
state games were played annually, the teams
visiting each other in alternate years. There
have been two' intermissions in the long run,
one during the war years, when the Queens-
land body, like every other Rugby Union
throughout the world, put up the shutters.
The League, playing throughout, the war,
had gained such a foothold after it that the
Union resolved to close down again in 1.11.1,
the code being revived 10 years later.
* at * *
The N.S.W. Rugby Union side in Queens-
land had an unexpectedly easy win against a
Brisbane XV, including 10 State representa-
tives ; 24 to 8. Up to half-time the game was
very even, the visitors leading 13-8, but the
home side faded out thereafter. The Queens-
land League players journeyed from Sydney
to Cootamundra, where they beat Group 9 by
18-12, the locals being weakened by the
absence of four of their stars who were rest-
ing for the second inter-State game against
N.S.W. in Sydney.
* * * *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League and
its Queensland cobber are making prepara-
tions for the Test matches with the English
side, the first of which will be played at
Sydney Cricket Ground on June 6. The
Australian players will be housed together
for a week before, receiving £1 a day save
on Sundays, when the hand-out will be 6s.
The players will also get £8 each for the
Test games, a 20 per cent, cut of the former
payment. Referees will receive the same
pay as the players, in spite of an effort to
have their solatium raised to £ls.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The opening rounds of the
Davis Cup tourney in Europe followed the
tipping fairly closely. Germany, which
should be well up when the whips are crack-
ing in the zone finals, easily disposed of India,
and will probably do the same by Austria,
which qualified for the second round by beat-
ing the Czechoslavs. Monaco licked Nor-
way. and Japan put it all over Greece. The
preliminary gallops of our own lads in
'Frisco and Noo Orleans, have not been en-
couraging, both Crawford and Hopman tak-
ing the knock at both places, though gener-
ally they and their mates held their own.
Still, these show games are not a good line
on real form in the big struggle, and in
both places the matches were played on
hard courts —something of a handicap to
players used, for the most part, to grass.
❖ ❖
“Fitzcray”: A lot of strings are being
pulled just now with the object of having
the headquarters of the A.L.T.A. shifted
from Melbourne to Sydney or Adelaide. For
IS years Sydney was the G.H.Q. location,
and then by general consent the venue was
shifted to Melbourne. Sydney would like
another turn, but Adelaide is putting in a
strong claim. No one seems to have thought
of Brisbane. One objection to Adelaide and
Brisbane constantly voiced is that both are
too far away from the chief tennis centres
to permit of State delegates attending
monthly meetings of the Federal body. They
rarely did in the past, and do so even more
rarely in the present, the absent States being
represented by some local individual armed
with the necessary authority. That pro-
cedure could be followed quite as easily in
Adelaide or Brisbane as in Melbourne or
Sydney.
“Cut Shot”: Jean Borotra lias been
responsible for yet another retirement. He
went to America lately swearing that lie
was done with first-class tennis for over
and a day. Then he had a go at the Yankee
indoor tennis championship and won it, and
before the tumult and the shouting died
declared lie was set to play for France in
the coming Davis Cup. Back in France now,
the ebullient Basque lias crayfished again.
Whether someone whispered him that he
was talking out of his turn is not. certain,
but he has announced that he is scratched
for the Cup and will leave the retention of
the pot to Cocliet, Lacoste, Boussus and co.
All the same, writer has a sneaking idea
that it will need all the bold gendarmes in
France to keep him off the courts in the
final round up.
Car and Cycle
“Formulae”: Reliability trials are as rare
among motorists these depressed days as
whiskers on a billiard ball. One is to be
staged, however, by the N.S.W. Light Car
Club as part of a run to Robertson on May
28 and 29. The trials will, include a half-
mile acceleration, flying half-mile and hill-
climbing tests. There will be four classes:
A for cars up to 1000 c.e., B for those from
1001 to 2000 c.c., C for supercharged cars,
and D for the big fellows over 2000 c.c. If
there are more than four starters in the
supercharged Class, cars will be reclassified
according to cubic capacity and handicapped
10 per cent, on formula figures. Possible
points will be 75 for reliability and 100 for
each of the tests, making 375 in all.
t',s % * £
“Whizz”: France’s reappearance in the
world’s motor speed contest has been post-
poned sine die. The huge machine which the
French engineer Jules Stappe has been en-
gaged on for two years capsized on the first
trial and. catching fire, was badly damaged.
The machine was fitted with three 800-h.p.
engines—24oo-h.p. altogether—and weighed
tons. Malcolm Campbell’s Bluebird
weighed only three tons, and the 12-cylinder
single engine developed 1500 h.p. It is about
time France had another go in this tourney,
for the last Gallic victory was in 1904, when
Rigolly hit up over 100 m.p.h., the first njan
to do it. The first record in 1898 was also
established by a Frenchman, Chasseloup-
Laubat —39.24 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Differential” : Another world’s record for
small cars was added to the perennial crop
of these things at Brooklands recently when
James Cobb and George Eyston were both
credited with 131 m.p.h. The jockeying for
position on the steeply-banked circular track
was hair-raising, the two cars running neck
and neck for more than 40 minutes. Cobb
apparently won by a split second, but Eyston
protested after the race on the ground that
he had been jostled. The stipes decided in
favor of the protester.
*!' * * *
“Retired Urger”: Another unsuccessful
attempt has been made in Britain to have
betting at the dirt-track speedways per-
mitted. At the same time it is probable the
practice flourishes in spite of the ban, as
is the case in Australia. The British
National Speedway Association has issued a
broad hint that some aspects of the sport,
are murky enough already without the added
impetus down the slippery slide of o’pen
wagering. The Britons are evidently of one
mind with the late George Hill, of N.S.W.,
when he announced his retirement from the
disappointing industry of backing profes-
sional peds: “Never again will I back any-
thing that can talk.”
£ & $ ' $
“Kick Starter”: The Australian motor-
cycle rider, E. Simcock, recently had another
try to lower the world’s speed record for
these machines. The record of 261.4 kilo-
metres an hour stands to the credit of Eng-
lishman Wright, but the best Simcock could
manage was 236.22. The attempt was made
on the stretch of road near Buda-Pesth in
Hungary, where many speed records have
been put up. Last year, in a similar attempt,
Simcock beat Wright’s figures on a one-way
run, but failed on the return trip owing to
his engine seizing. Simcock seems now
permanently established in England with the
Brough people, one of whose machines he
rode in his recent attempt.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Ela”: Truly the cares of Empire-builders
are great, as Cecil Rhodes, myself and some
others have noted. The latest trial which
the Legion That Never Was Listed has had
to undergo is the condition of the golf links
at Port Moresby, where, as everyone con-
versant with Papuan conditions knows, the
local inhabitants, most of whom are civil
servants, are night and day striving to over-
come the forces of savagery and cannibalism.
I have been long out of the game, but my
heart bleeds for the condition of the P.M.
golfers as described in a letter from a quon-
dam pal. He says, commenting on the
fact that the old-timers scoff at modern
conditions thereaway, that things are harder
than the O.T.’s realise. For example, when
the grass on the fourth fairway was recently
burned off, players had to wash their feet
after finishing a round. Seems to me a
deadly waste of energy. When I knew Port,
no one ever thought of washing his feet
or any part of his anatomy save his neck —•
and that wasn’t done with soap and water.
* . .. * * .*
“Carnoustie”: P. G. Merrilees, who has
been appointed golf professional to the Wooi-
lahra (N.S.W.) public golf course, hails
from that famous Scottish golfing community
known as North Berwick. There is quite
a little squad of the lads from the whisky
side of the Tweed in Sydney or its environs.
Best known of them, perhaps, is Carnegie
Clark, head serang at the Royal Sydney,
who was responsible for Merrilees’s trip to
Australia. Others of the clan are J. Wil-
son. of Ryde club ; D. Denholm, of Mqsman ;
and D. McDonald, of Avondale. Merrilees
was prominent in competitive golf for some
years until he abandoned it to go into busi-
ness. Now that he has come back to the
active side of the game again, we may find
him figuring well up with his fellow-profes-
sionals.
“Brassey”: This year’s Windeyer Cup
competition in Sydney in June promises to
be the best for years. In addition to the
Maoriland side crossing the Tasman creek
to defend the pot, a red-hot Victorian lot,
including Whitton and Williams, may be ex-
pected. Even better than that-—from the
point of _ view of those golfers who desire
to see this event a truly international one —-
is the news that Queensland is shaping up
for a shy at the cocoanuts. Provided J. N.
Radeliffe and C. R. Boyce, the two leading
amateurs of Queensland for some time past,
are able to get away, Bananalaml has the
nucleus of a strong side. If they come south,
G. Esdaile, now resident in N.S.W. and
Playing with the Long Reef club, will be
co-opted to play with his native State.
* ❖ ❖
“Prestwicli”: A recent Bulletin refer-
ence to Joyce Wetliered reminds me that
Bobby Jones himself proclaimed her, a
couple of . years ago, the most perfect
golfer of either sex that he had ever seen.
An English exchange furnishes evidence in
support. Playing in a four-ball match on
the difficult Rye course in Sussex, the other
three players being men of standing in the.
golf world—one was G. Burnham, who won
a Victorian amateur championship in pre-
war days—the lady did a 71. The best ball
of the three men was a 74. The match was
played from the men’s tees.
Miscellaneous
“J.A.”: Peter Hopkins, No. 2 in St.
Joseph’s College eight in the Head-of-tlie-
River contest, is a grandson of the immortal
“Hop.” A strong, sturdy lad, he was one
of the most polished oarsmen in the boat.
In Joey’s boat there were six country lads :
C. Elias (Bowraville), J. Glynn (Lismore),
J. Dickie (Eltham), W. Kelly (Maitland),
A. Monti (Broadwater), J. Harley (Lith-
gow). The other two, A. Cooper and
Hopkins, hail from Sydney.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: Hard times or not, Maoriland
is talking of sending a hockey team to Aus-
tralia shortly if enough nominations can be
obtained by May 28. The Australian hockey
authorities are working out a tentative itiner-
ary in case the trip is finally fixed up.
Maoriland had hoped to measure sticks with
the. Indian Army team while this was
on its way to California, via Australia and
M.L. A change of route, however, has
dashed these hopes, and the proposed Aus-
tralian tour has been resorted to as the next
best thing in sight.
* * * *
“Blade”: Queensland is to have the next
King's Cup race, and the Maryborough Row-
ing Club, several times champion of the
State and as often Queensland representa-
tive in the big inter-State event, wants it
for Maryborough. The request has been
turned down, not because there is anything
wrong with the Mary River, but because ft
has allegedly been a fixed rule that the race
must be held in the capital city. In reply,
the Maryboroughites have asked if Penrith is
the capital of N.S.W., since the 1928 race
for the King’s Cup was rowed on the Nepean
there in 1928, and if Launceston, where the
event was held in 1921, is the capital of
Tassy.
* * * *
“Outboard” : Miss England 111., the motor-
boat in which Kaye Don is to try for records,
has been launched by Thornycrofts. Thirty-
five feet long and in beam, the new
craft is very heavily engined, fitted as she
is with two of the famous Rolls-Royce
Schneider Cup engines. These develop a
nominal 4000 horse-power, though this is
much exceeded in actual practice. There are,
of course, twin propellers, and a novel fea-
ture is the double rudder at stern and bow.
After tuning up on Lake Garda, in Italy,
Don will take his craft to America in Sep-
tember.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Stated that there is a
probability of Grimmett and Ponsford going
to England to play League cricket. So far
the story has only been denied by Ponsford,
and all are anxiously waiting for the South
Australian’s comment. This country could
better spare Bradman, or even Lang, than
the little Bosie king, veteran as he is, and
in some circles there is talk of approaching
the Federal Government to prohibit his ex-
pm-t under the Customs Acts, as is done in
the case of native-bears, platypuses and
other rare and valuable fauna.
“Green Checquer” : England saw its first
speed test between aeroplanes and homer-
pigeons the other day. The affair was a
match for a side wager, and 12 fliers were
pitted against a single ’plane piloted by
Squadron-leader Rae. The bh'ds were tossed
a quarter of an hour before the 'plane
took wing, but the latter arrived at Nor-
wich, the goal of the flight, 15 minutes be-
fore the first birds. Fanciers claim, arid
probably with some justice, that the sight
an d noise of the overtaking ’plane cowed the
pigeons, who took to their customary refuges
in trees under the impression that the adver-
sary was a hawk, the deadliest enemy of
homers. In any case, I should he inclined
to back the pigeon for a long-distance job
where refuelling is out of the question and
landing grounds are non-existent.


I
e
A Few Shihches &Thcy re On
è
Unsurpassed for the Household, Traveller and
School Outfits Any name woven in fast color
Actual
Size
cffl.&WZflJlutmA-
Style
No. 6.
The Prices are Moderate.
12 doz. 7/6,6 doz. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/6
Sold by Leading Drapers.
Write for Name Style Circular to
4. a J. CASH AUSTRALIAN WEAVING CO PTY. LTD.
85 CUBITT STREET. RICHMOND. MELB.
Circumstances
and CHOICE
/CIRCUMSTANCES compel some people to holiday at
winter-time.
Others do it from choice—they’ve ski-ed and tobogganed
through exhilarating days and danced through cosy evenings
at Mt. Buffalo National Park before.
Dxiring the four weeks of the official Mt. Buffalo snow-sports season
T , gUSt ’ at luxurious Chalet for those staying more
than 48 hours is only 17s. 6d. a day. At other times it is 15s. Book
now at Government Tourist Bureau, Queen’s Walk, Melbourne; or
Martin Place, Sydney.
The Chalet, MT. BUFFALO National Park (Vic.) —for Australia’s
best holiday!
11
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Cauitieia,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
CRITERION: THE BARRETTS OF
WIMPOLE STREET.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: BLUE ROSES.
With MADGE ELLIOTT and CYRIL RITCHARD.
KING’S THEATRE :
TURN TO THE RIGHT.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
A Bulletin paragraph last week pre-
pared the public for that pathetic opening
to “A Farewell Appeal” which the “S. M.
Herald” on Saturday printed under Dr.
Arthur’s name. “After many weeks in hos-
pital,” he wrote in liis simple opening sen-
tence, “I have come home to wait” ; and the
waiting will not be long and weary. It is
characteristic of “the little doctor” that his
last ounce of strength is being given to
help others; and one ought to remember his
gentle and devoted wife in this connection.
His appeal is for portable wireless for the
service of patients in the public hospitals.
This Letter wandered into the Women
Painters’ show the other day and found
that, as usual, Mabel Barling had lain
down with the lion and the tiger. Curious
charm the jungle cats and dogs have for
this artist, whose cleverness in painting
them will earn her the job of chief portrait-
painter to the King of the Forest in some
existence we have not yet glimpsed. How pas-
toral Olive Birkenhead is by contrast, with her
basket willows and calm waters ! The one
should be served to the beat of the skin-drum,
the other to the piping of a flute. Peace and
hope are breathed by Hetty Dymock’s flower-
ing boughs. Mrs. Hedley Parsons’s work
brings memories of days and nights in
Levuka and Ngau, and Ethel Stephens sup-
plies a sunburst of wattle, so golden it
tempts you to drop all labor, so realistic it
would give an addict a bout of hay-fever.
Lady Isaacs opened this show, Lady Game
made several unofficial calls, and the Educa-
tion Gallery was autumnal with masses of
golden-brown chrysanthemums and leaves
crisp with the fires of frosty mornings.
Talking of existences not yet glimpsed,
few Australians have had a chance to meet
Dr. Compton since his arrival from Chicago
with an apparatus for measuring those new
playthings of the scientist, cosmic radiations.
He hasn’t had half a second to spare. May-
be he finds it difficult to pull his attention
back to earth, anyway. Ordinary folks
haven’t got an imagination that will take in
the infinite. They’ve got. so used to assum-
ing that there is an end to all things that
they can’t conceive of a universe which goes
on and on, with a world beyond the last
world you can ever think of. Even Dr.
Compton’s imagination may not have wings
strong enough to carry him to the rimless
rim of such a universe, but at least he has
to consider the possibility of his pet rays
coming from a source so far distant that
the sun, 93 millions of miles away, is a mere
inner suburb by comparison.
Friends are mourning Mrs. George
Aurousseau. wife of a former art director at
Sydney’s Tech. A clever artist, she sub-
merged her own brusliwork in her home life.
The Lyceum Club, of which she had been
a committee woman and at which she was
a fascinating raconteur, mourns her loss.
Her eldest son, Marcelle, after the war, did
a lot of tramping, resulting in a book, “The
Highway Into Spain,” which, published in
London a year or so ago, got remarkable
reviews.
Arthur Eedy, insurance manager and one
of the business directors of the University,
had a bad illness which drove him to Europe
a few months ago. He is much better, and
with Mrs. Eedy is now on the Continent.
D. G. Macdougall, the live-wire who was
behind the Bridge-opening publicity, is writ-
ing an official story of the celebrations—if it
can’t be published it will at least be lodged
in the Mitchell Library. The business men
interested evidently found the results satis-
factory ; anyway, it has been tentatively
decided to have a gala fortnight each year
to coincide with the Easter Show.
The Bridge has torn Sydney’s ferry ser-
vices to rags. At once the company’s biggest
liners were out of a job—especially those
that served Milson’s Point and the motor
traffic. There’s no' hope of finding regular
work for the vehicle punts, though a G.P.S.
had a brain-wave and chartered one of the
biggest of them for Head-of-the-River Day
Turning this way and that in search of a
way out for the rest of the fleet, the co. has
decided to link the Zoo and the Rose Bay
side; and that’s going to make things easier
for many a holiday-planning mother.
.Castagna and Suraiii, ticketed by build
and voice to play more robust heroines than
Valobra, looked down on her the other night
from the left-hand box while she vocally
broke her heart as Butterfly. With her
clear-cut profile and small features and form,
she was admirably fitted, too, for ill-fated
Butterfly, with her colorful, heavily-bro-
caded kimonos. What an economy Japan’s
national dress musfT be! Butterfly on the
night she took up residence with Pinkerton
wore a heavy white silk kimono, very rich
and graceful. Three years later, when his
boat heaves in sight, the faithful Suzsuki
shakes the mothballs out of the garment, and
Butterfly, slipping it on, is just as modish
as on her first appearance. Imagine what
an evening frock three years old would look
like in our own country!
“II Troyatore” makes a strong case
against afforestation schemes. For one
thing only the presence of too much timber
could suggest the recurrent theme of a
human bonfire. Probably the lord of the
manor felt he was killing two birds with one
stone—getting a bit of overdue burning-off
done while he was being rid of a rival.
Suppose the old Count di Luna had lived in
Sydney and wanted to burn up Azucena’s
mother; first he’d have to ring up a coal-
and-wood merchant, wlio’d want particulars
as to length and thickness of blocks required.
Then after the Count’s ready-reckoners had
worked that out, the coal-and-wood merchant
would look at the figures, suck his pencil and
decide that the earliest possible delivery
would be in ten days’ time. By the end of
ten days the Countess would probably say:
“Waste those good wood blocks on an old
g/psy —not while I’m keeping house!” And
though that would have meant no Anvil
Chorus (you see, the wood-inspired thought
again), it would have been much pleasanter
in the long run for Azucena and the Luna
family.
What fun the flappers in those days had!
A moonlight hike around the garden (how
many steps do these heroines and the fond
companion take around the stage while the
soprano warbles of her love entanglements?)
is always the prelude to the sudden appear-
ance of a lover. Leonora has not only her
troubadour, but his rival and a resultant
brawl on her hands. Right into the convent
cloister the two pursue her, firemen’s helmets,
swords and all. When next seen she has
been plucked from the novitiate and decked
with orange buds. So all seems set for pro-
viding another generation to help burn up
the Di Luna forests, and then her troubadour
is snatched from her arms. How the foun-
dations of the Di Luna castle are finally
uprooted by the unchecked undergrowth is
another and as yet unwritten story.
How brave, despite the half-lights in
which nearly all the scenes are played, were
the velvets and jewels and cloaks of the
fifteenth-century nobles! Di Luna’s white
cloak, with its sky-blue blazonings, in the
first act looked virtuous enough to enfold
the hero; but the minute he opened his
mouth, you knew from his deep notes that
he was of base currency—in opera only the
Heaven-born have tenor voices. Leonora’s
cloak of deep violet velvet breathed anguish
at the final curtain, while Azucena’s bosom
glittered with as many medals or medal-
lions as any prize-winner of innumerable
Eisteddfods.
The “Trovatore” house wasn’t particularly
well-dressed, nor were the stalls and circle
as crowded as usual, but more oldsters were
in the house and seemed to bring young
daughters or, maybe, grand-daughters.
Mayoress Walder was smart in black satins
heavy with rust embroideries; florist Fred
Searl and his wife were among the applaud-
ers; the Fairfax lady turned her ear to the
old-time melodies; Mrs. A. E. Hughes and
Mrs. Bertie Kelly were colorful, the one
glittering in a pale-yellow cloak and long
begemmed earrings, the other in satin as
smooth as a Granny Smith’s sheath. Song-
birds Grace Angelau and Valobra sat with
the F. J. Davys.
Mrs. Compton, who is travelling with the
Chicago scientist, js a graduate of Worcester
University, and is now studying for her
M.A. A schoolboy son makes up a trio.
What will the Anderson Tyrers say to the
poinsettia that Brisbane pins in her hair
these winter days—by this time they are
in the northern city? One night before they
left Sydney (he’s examiner for Trinity Col-
lege) they gave an intimate chamber con-
cert at the Forum Club. Their audience was
drawn mostly from the Musical Association,
and to theso the lady made the Guarnerius
violin given to her by novelist Marie Corelli,
her great friend and admirer, sing with
warmth and gaiety. Mr. Anderson Tyrer
made the piano part of the recital very scin-
tillating and brilliant. Mrs. Tyrer (better
known to London audiences as Nanette An-
derson) is a graceful dark creature, and
wore a frock in which jade and vellum satin
were cunningly mingled. It was flared, in-
step length, and its bodice was made with
the cowl neckline.
Mr. R. T. McKay, whose garden overlook-
ing Palm Beach is noted for its collection of
tropical plants, is generously throwing it
open again next week-end, May 21 and 22,
in aid of the Kindergarten Union.
A frequent Bulletin contributor, Thelma
Lampe, was married in her home town of
Peak Hill recently to George Perryman, of
Stratlifield. After the wedding ceremony a
reception was held at Buddong, the home of
the bride’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. A.
Lampe. She’s a grand-daughter of the Tal-
bingo LampeSj and a cousin of Miles Frank-
lin.
New Consul-General for the Netherlands
Staal and his wife threaten to be as popular
as their predecessors, the Teppemas. They
arrived last week on the Nieuw Zeeland from
Java, where they have been holidaying. They
have decided on Darling Point for their
home, and already say that Australia seems
the best of the 13 countries in which they
have consulted. Mrs. Staal is French, has
artistic leanings, and both can sparkle in
English.
Jimmy Mollison, the Australian flier,
should be able to claim a record in engage-
ment-making. In March his matrimonial
intentions in regard to Lady Diana Welles-
ley were announced; now in May the old
love is off (literally; she’s travelling in parts
unknown with mother), and he is on with
Amy Johnson, who flew solo to Australia,
Jimmy piloting her from Brisbane to Sydney
after her Jason had crashed. Amy on her
arrival here,. as this Letter noted, seemed
mirrit. up with an inward excitement, and
the Daily Mail,” interviewing the two after
the announcement of their engagement, re-
marked that “Amy, relaxed in a huge arm-
chair, scarcely spoke. Excitement appeared
to have drained her energy, though her eyes
were alert.” The same paper is responsible
for the statement that, on the evening his
engagement with Amy was announced, Mol-
lison was dancing with Lady Diana at the
restaurant at which he had proposed to Miss
Johnson during lunch.
There was a touching little ceremony in
Martm-place one day last week when 54
bright-faced schoolgirls stayed the eager feet
of youth for a moment to lay a wreath on
the Cenotaph. They were girl Y. A. Leaguers
Fm m T. S ° ut!l Australia, aged from 11 to 17.
Ihe Bridge, the Zoo, Canberra and a recep-
tion by the Mayor and his lady (complete
with tea and plenty of sweetstuffs) were
among the highlights of the visit. The Town
Hall opened its civic eyes wide at the abo.
war-cry which the girl choir chanted gustily
by way of prologue t 0 the social amenities.
What a mercy it was to parents that the
Glaciarium got itself firmly set by term holi-
day ! Young rapturous schoolgirls with
cheeks as red as apples whirl on to trams
and boats getting home in time for family
dinner. ‘'Thank goodness,” said one mother
devoutly the other afternoon, “there won’t
be a murmur out of Jean all evening—she’ll
be too tired for anything but sleep. And
think, my dear, what free afternoons this
skating craze of hers leaves me !” Of course,
it isn’t only schoolgirls and schoolboys who
skim or totter across the icefields. The other
afternoon for the opening, half of Sydney
seemed to be rehearsing the part of Eliza. One
couldn’t help wondering how far the girls
could emulate her speqd if a few hounds were
lot loose on the horizon. (A flying calf
might seem just as enticing as a tin hare.)
This Letter decided, after viewing hundreds
of women skaters, that the black woolly suit
splashed with gaudy scarf or tie is the smart-
est wear.
Margery Ward is the youngest organiser
attached to Prince Alfred’s, and surely one
of the young-
est organisers
attached to
anything in
Sydney. After
she’d left Nor-
manhurst (be-
fore that she
was at Red-
lands) she did
voluntary work
for nearly
three years for
the P.A.H., and
then authority
offered her a
permanent job.
Her Young
Auxiliary i s
largely drawn
from young-
old girls of
the city’s sec-
ondary schools.
Without any
help whatever from the seniors, they arrange
entertainments on quite a large scale. One
of the big successes of Regatta Night was
their dance in the Blaxland Galleries—a
crowded-out affair for which twice as many
tickets could have been sold. But the
Young Auxiliary isn’t only decorative. Every
Thursday it gets down to the job of setting
tables, serving and washing up at the cafe
run at the hospital for the benefit of out-
patients and students and hospital visitors.
The photo, is by the Bulletin photo-
grapher.
Sydney owes one of its most beautiful
buildings to five great-hearted women who
came here in 1882. Their purpose was to
found a branch of the Sacred Heart Con-
vent for the higher education of girls. The
manifestation in stone of the success of the
venture is the Rose Bay convent, of which
the gifted Horbury Hunt was architect.
Something of the educational success could
be glimpsed at the convent’s Golden Jubilee
celebrations the other day, when past pupils
gathered. Among the most admired of the
jubilee gifts is the marble statue of the
Sacred Heart presented by other convents
of the order in Australia and Maoriland and
the children of Rose Bay.
Walking skirts are decidedly shorter, and
the knee or just-above-the-knee length cos-
tume-coat is once again fashionable. So is
our old friend the tunic, which varies its
length according to the height of the wearer.
One of the enviable ensembles seen by this
Letter in its recent travels was of beige
wool marocain. Its three-quarter coat was
worn over a diagonal striped jersey, in
browns and golds, its skirt was of the
fashionable shorter length, and its collar
and cuffs were edged with beige fur.
Margaret Chalmers, the subject of this
Lupton photograph, needs no introduction to
musical Syd-
ney. She is
one of its best-
known pian-
ists, has a
knowledge of
piano litera-
ture that goes
hack to the
beginning of
thin gs, and
has that rar-
est of gifts
among bril-
liant soloists,
a talent for
a c c o m pani-
ment. This is
her job with
the present
ope r a com-
pany, and in
addition sli e
ha s assisted
with coaching
tlio girl chorus. Margaret’s father, it will
be remembered, was. during his busy life-
cnne, manager, first of the old Civil Service
Stores _ and then of Farmer’s. He was an
enthusiastic musician, too.
A newly-back says the pinafore frock is
once more with us—this is one of the styles
that Time cannot wither. The lawn-mower
of fashion may level it to the dust; but pre-
sently it. is found .springing up again,
shoulder straps, bib and all. A skirt of
dove-grey woollen material, its straps com-
mencing at the rather high waistline, and
a blouse of sheer white linen were the in-
gredients in this particular traveller’s favo-
rite sample. The blouse had full, peasant
sleeves drawn into a narrow cuff and a
funny little scarf neckline. Short cape-like
sleeves and raglan sleeves occur persistently
on the new frocks and coats.
Bananalaud bits:—
The Queensland Aero Club gave a dance in honor
of airman C. W. A. Scott at Rowe’s. Some lovely
gowns 'were worn. Mrs. J. S. Meehan was in prim-
rose ; Mrs. Percy Ward in midnight blue; Mrs.
Esbeth Smith wore black panne velvet; Mrs. Gordon
Gow had a jade velvet wrap over her black chiffon :
Mrs. H. B. Bonncy was in flesh pink; Mrs. G.
Johnson chose dahlia red, and Margaret Gordon
burnt-rose mariette.
For nearly 30 years the annual exhibition of the
Brisbane Needlework Guild has been held at Mrs.
Frank Corrie’s home in Bowen-terraee. There are
700 members of the Guild this year, and 2000
garments and other articles were displayed for the
benefit of various hospitals. Mrs. Corrie received in
black mariette.
The Blair lady, Mrs. A. E. Moore and the Mayoress
were on the platform at the rally for Mrs. Higgins
in the Army Temple, and Mrs. Irene Longman moved
the vote of thanks.
Harry Smith, senior, pioneer and veteran rifle-
shot, has died at East Coorparoo, Brisbane. He was
83 and came to Queensland 64 years ago. He
married a Brisbane girl; their golden wedding had
a mention in The Bulletin seven years ago.
Thomas Jackman married Neta Brennan in the
Holy Rosary Church, Windsor. The bride, who
was given away by her brother, wore ivory Chantilly
lace over satin and Brussels-lace veil. Mary and
Nancye Brennan ’maided in shrimp pink lace, with
reseda-green hats.
The United Service gave a dance and bridge even-
ing, Colonel F. A. Hughes receiving the guests, and
the Auchenflower bowlers had a social at the pavilion
for Gladys Wasley, who marries Captain Such at
the end of June.
Stanthorpe Methodist Church saw the marriage
of Reginald Walters and Joyce Wilmott. The bride
was in palest primrose satin, Chantillv-lace cap and
veil of primrose tulle. E. McLucas ’maided in
rose-pink satin. Donald Wilmott was page in green
satin, and Beryl Little, in green satin, was train-
bearer.
Bernard George Anstey took Helen Moore Stewart
to wife at the Presbyterian Church at Innisfail. The
bride was in white taffetas, and a cut tulle veil.
Miss J. Stewart ’maided in old rose taffetas, and
Ailsa Craig was trainbearer in powder blue.


WOODS
GREAT.
3$
CURE
For Coughs, Colds and
Influenza.
The Unrivalled Remedy.
‘THERE’S COLD IN
THEM THAR HILLS!
Yes, there may be. But, for right-
thinking men and women, gold is dross
without health. Better a sound diges-
tion, clear skin and calm nerves than all the
bright metals in the world. Hence Cream of
Yeast is more than “worth its weight in gold.”
For it helps digestion to real health; it clears
the skin, steadies jangled nerves, and peps up
lagging steps. Cream of Yeast is more than
a tonic —it’s a pick-me-up and a stand-by.
It costs a trifling sum at any chemist’s, and
will make anyone feel better and brighter
in a few minutes. Cream of Yeast is LIFE.
é
Missing Friends.
ESTATE OF ELIZA MALONE, of
Lisbareen, Bodyke, Co. Clare, Ireland,
Widow, Deceased.
INFORMATION is sought for MARY ANN
*■ JEFFSCOTT. daughter of Michael Fitz-
patrick, of Corbally, Dunmore East, Co.
Waterford, niece of deceased, supposed to
have emigrated to Australia. If she will
communicate with the undersigned she will
[hear of something to her advantage.
JAMES LYNCH, Solicitor,
Ennis, Co. Clare,
Ireland.
Ist March, 1932.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
The Yarra banks were carpeted witli
humanity on Thursday and Friday after-
noons when the Head-of-the-River races were
contested. The first day was grey and sun-
less, and the river, unruffled by the slightest
breeze, looked like a misty mirror. Despite
the clouds the scene was a gay one, the
browns and golds of autumn foliage forming
a foil to a medley of billiard-cloth green,
laundry blue and the most vivid of scarlets
and yellows, these bright hues being mainly
favored in feminine attire. Added to this,
the colors of the competing schools in yard
lengths of ribbons floated from the coat
lapels of young and old, and were repeated
in ties, scarves and kerchiefs and in the
trimmings of mascots. The yells of juvenile
barrackers, many of whom were armed with
megaphones, through which school songs
were chanted, gave an air of fine frenzy to
the proceedings. There was wild excitement,
when Melbourne Grammar carried off the
honors from Geelong Grammar and Wesley
College. Xavier was beaten in the heats
by Geelong Grammar.
In the final, as was expected, Melbourne
Grammar won for the third year in succes-
sion—under the same stroke, E. D. Scott,
too. Save for those who rushed to see the
victors receive the cup from Major C. O.
Fairbairn, the multitude departed with great
promptitude as soon as the issue was decided.
At the Xavier College boatrace dance
there was an attendance of about 1200, and
the school’s colors, cardinal and black, in
streamers, caps and balloons stood out
against the less vivid decoration of the ball-
room. The girls wore their brightest frocks,
and the scene was a merry one. During a
lull in the dancing the room was darkened
and the big race of the. afternoon was
screened, with some special pictures of
Xavier College added. In another interlude
the race was reproduced again, the crews
being represented by riders. on quaint
mechanical dogs propelled like bicycles.
Again Melbourne Grammar carried off the
laurels, and there was a small silver cup for
the winner. The president of the 0.X.A.,
F, R. Connelly, Mrs. Connelly, whose beige
lace frock was topped with a smart gold-
tinted wrap, and the lion, sec., Leo W.
Quin, greeted the official guests, who in-
cluded Father O’Brien, rector of Xavier;
Father Murphy, rector of Newman; and
Father O’Dwyer, rector of St. Patrick’s.
Among the Head-of-the-River festivities
was a dance at the home of Major and Mrs.
George Landale, when their niece Betty
Clarke, a daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs.
Reginald Clarke, of Melbourne, and Pamela
Crowther were joint hostesses. Miss Clarke
favored blue satin that was draped to a
bustle effect at the back, and a white gown
with a blurred floral design in pink was worn
by Miss Crowther. Mrs. Landale wore a
gown of ombre toning, shading from flesh
tint to rose-red. Mr. and Mrs. O’Dell Crow-
ther were present, she in deep blue lace.
For boatrace night the Theatre Royal was
dressed up in draperies and pennons com-
bining the crews’ colors, a further nautical
touch being crossed oars that framed the
boxes and a racing skiff that crowned the
proscenium. Masses of chrysanthemums
banked the dress-circle balcony, with fairy
lights entwined amid pendant baskets of
flowers. The show was “Blue Roses.” Madge
Elliott on her first entrance looked the last
word in style in a military coat of cream
cloth worn with the smartest of skirts and
a satin blouse. A gown of pink chiffon with
immensely wide long skirt, and a turquoise-
blue georgette frock with meandering small
frills were worn by the actress in later
scenes. She made her final appearance in a
princess robe of white-striped satin. The
spirit of the day was renewed in the screen-
ing of the boatrace, with cheers for all com-
petitors. The audience consisted mostly of
family parties, parents escorting small sons
and daughters to celebrate the double occa-
sion of the boatrace and the beginning of
the vacation.
A private hop associated with the Head-
of-the-River event was given by Ketha, eldest
daughter of the Leslie Macphersons, of
Toorak. The young hostess, whose parents
lent their aid, was attired in a simple black
satin gown, and her mother wore draperies
of black velvet. Betty Macpherson was a
contrast in bright green chiffon. Mr. and
Mrs. T. Grantham came to their niece’s party
with their handsome daughter Deidre, who
also chose a green frock.
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Brookes and their
trio of daughters gathered up their friends
for an after-the-boatrace tea party at Kur-
neh. Mrs. Brookes sported brown velvet
frock and millinery.
A comedy that was popular two decades
ago, “Turn to the Right,” was revived at
the King’s on Head-of-the-River night. John
Junior and Stapleton Kent played their
original rdles of the crooks who made good,
and J J. was called upon to make a speech.
Little Lois Green, whom we generally see
tripping lightly on tiptoes as solo ballerina,
was charming as Betty Baxom.
At Moonee Valley on Saturday there was
a big crowd, and the women were very
hriahtlv dressed and smartly hatted, fi rocks,
coats and hats that vied _ with . the green
lawns and scarlet salvia in their coloi ing
made a bright picture. Brown is immensely
popular at present, and is in most cases
associated with orange and flame tints for tne
trimming and for the plumage of the felt
headpiece. An outstanding effect was
achieved by the wearer of a coat-frock, all
black, made with a cape of wool de Chine.
Both cape and dress were finished with
very wide woollen lace in an Irish crochet
design. A smart little hat and an eye-veil
completed the turnout. Mrs. 1. A . Millea
was one of those who favored a brown
ensemble, and Mrs. Fred Kitchen, a recent
bride, plumped for Lido blue. Mrs. James
Purves. who was accompanied by her hus-
band, was tailored in navy with pointed fox
furs. Beth Stuart, a bride-elect, was in fine
tweed of mole color topped by one of the
fashionable crocheted hats of nigger shade.
Her cousin Mrs. Fred Gilder, who com-
panioned her, was also in tweeds of the
loose-weave nature, in brotvn tints. _ Mrs.
I). P. Mackey chose a bottle-green suit with
a quill of a'brighter shade in her felt hat.
Mrs. J. B. McArthur, Major and Mrs. Wil-
kinson, Dr. and Mrs. Gerald Sheahan, Mrs.
J J. Daly and Mrs. Curtin, Mrs. J. Dwyer
and the Percy Blackbourns were amongst
those who watched the racing.
Vice-Admiral Imamura and the officers of
the Japanese training squadron returned
Melbourne’s hospitality with a reception in
the flagship Asama, which put on a gala
dress of red-and-white-striped canvas awning,
with a fringe of lanterns and sprays of
pi nk-and-white cherry blossom. The Aus-
tralian and Japanese flags were above the
gangway, where the Vice-Admiral and York
Syme, Consul for Japan, received the guests.
Mrs. Syme was in the offing in sapphire-
blue tailored suit and felt hat. Gifts of
wee silk flags, fans, cap-bands and postcards
were passed out to the visitors, each present
accompanied by a tiny bow in Nippon’s
national colors, which the receiver was re-
quested to pin on his or her breast. Tours
of inspection of the cruiser were conducted
by midshipmen and officers. Parts of the
ship were arranged as models of Japanese
landscape. There were Fuji, the snowclad
mountain ; Kyoto, when the pink cherry blos-
som was all agiowing; the red lacquer en-
trance to a famous shrine, and- a replica of
a typical Japanese home and garden. There
were displays of wrestling, fencing and
sword-play on the pier, where mattresses
were thickly spread. A referee who dodged
about in a green and yellow kimono and
turban-like head-dress, waviirg a black fan,
was a joy to the crowd. His shrill shrieks
sounded as though they meant something awful,
but someone explained that they only meant
“Look out!” Refreshments included a very
light lager, brewed in Japan, and saki, poured
into tiny basin.s from graceful-looking blue
and white jars. Among those who accepted
Nippon’s guesture of friendliness were
Lieutenant-Governor Irvine and his lady,
Air-Commodore Williams and Mrs. Williams,
Lud Mayor Smith, James Elder and his
lady, Wing-Commander Eric Harrison and
Mrs. Harrison, and Major and Mrs. ,C. S.
Cunningham.
Pictured here by a Jack Cat o camera is
Ellison Harvie, a daughter of Mrs. Robert
Harvie, of Malvern. She was a student at
Warwick, East
Malvern, com-
p 1 e t i n g her
education at
S w i n b urne
Technical Col-
lege and the
Uni. Miss
Harvie served
he r articles
with Stephen-
son and Mel-
drum, wi t h
which firm she
is at present,
and was en-
trusted with
the draft-
ing of the
plans of the
recently-
opened Jessie
M c P h erson
Comm unity
Hospital.
We have never had so dressy a winter.
The topcoats offered for our selection are
unprecedentedly smart and comfortahle-look-
ing, leaning towards military styles in design.
Tweeds and face cloths fashioned in double-
breasted style with great storm collars of
fur and immense gauntlet cuffs are furnished
with huge buttons. Flecked and heather
mixtures in tweeds of every shade and plain
materials in blue, green, brown and wine
shades give cheery variety to the usually
drab dress scene of this time of the year.
Frocks of wool de Chine and other fabrics
are brightened with gay buttons and striped
or figured scarfs. Hats are getting cheekier
everyday. Perky feathers and quills stand
upright at the back or side of headpieces that
suggest forage-caps, or are near relations
of the beret.
Judging from the display of fur coats, the
short, smart jacket in length about to the
hipline will be first favorite. A very attrac-
tive garment of this nature in cafe lapin
and flying squirrel was seen at Myer’s man-
nequin show of all-Australian pretties. Re-
garding evening gowns, though across the
sea woollen lace is popular, a director of
a big emporium says there is no demand for
this class of frock here. A very delightful
gown seen a few days ago was of black
woollen lace of effective design that fell in
soft folds and was completed with a small
cape. For elegance it would be hard to
equal.
The coming-of-age dance of Jack Ryan,
only son of the late T. J. Ryan and Mrs.
Ryan, took place in the big lounge of the
Windsor, which was decked with masses of
tinted foliage. Gifts were showered on the
young man, and many congratulatory tele-
grams came from Brisbane. A huge gold
latchkey was perched upon the double-decker
birthday cake. Black georgette relieved by
a corsage spray of lilies-of-the-valley was
worn by the hostess, who carried a white-
feather fan. Her daughter Jill was in pink
georgette made with double-puffed sleeves
and a slight bustle effect. Cassic Fanning
looked smart in a long-sleeved cream chiffon
velvet coat, worn over cosmos pink chiffon.
Another miss topped a creamy lace frock
with a short three-tiered cape of emerald-
green velvet. Amy Lueini was in black chif-
fon, and her sister Tinka sported a necklet
of pink rosebuds with her hyacintli-blne
frock. A coatee of white Irish crochet was
allied to Wilma Murphy’s white tulle.
Elaine Knox-Kniglit wore flowered taffeta,
and Bonnie Johnson floated round in the
faintest pink.
Among the jubilee celebrations of the
Methodist Ladies’ College was a concert at
the Town Hall, in which a choir of past and
present st u-
dents number-
ing 800 play-
ed an import-
ant part. Ruth
Flockart, pic-
tured here by
Jack Cato,
was conductor,
and steered
the singers
very success-
fully through
T h a 1 b ern’s
“Gathering
Song of Don-
ald, the Black,”
Cyril Jen-
kins’s “Storm
Song” and the
“Hall elujah
Chorus,” to
which Dr.
Floyd played
the organ
accompaniment, supplemented by violins and
piano. Miss Flockart was a graceful figure
in her clinging black-velvet gown with cor-
sage outlined in white georgette. An old
pupil of the M.L.C., she received her first
musical training here, and later studied at
the Uni. Con., where she is now a teacher
of piano and singing. She is also senior
member of the musical staff of the M.L.C.
Laura Nyulasy put on a musical matinee
at her Toorak home to help St. Martin’s
Boys’ Home. The hostess, in ruby-red
lace and chiffon with matching felt hat, was
assisted by her sister, Mrs. Charles Cowper,
in black brightened with ecru lace. Eda
Bennie sang, Cecil Parkes brought his fiddle,
and a chat on China and Japan was contn-
bdted by Compton Coutts. Among the guests
were the Robinson lady, her daughter, Mrs.
Huntly Griffith, the Raws lady and Mrs.
Ernest Poolman. Mrs. Norton Grimwade
and Mrs. Chris Cowper sent flowers from
their Macedon homes to be sold for the
cause. , ,
A bridge party at the Windsor to add to
the funds of the Children’s Hospital was
put on by American ladies resident in Mel-
bourne, who have formed themselves into an
auxiliary. Mrs. F. Dye, wife of the Consul
for U.S.A.. Mrs. W. S. Kent Hughes, Mrs.
Norman Picot, Mrs. James Clymer and Mrs.
A. T. Prytz were the chief engineers. Tea
was served to the accompaniment of music
provided by Mollic Warden, Bob Molyneux,
Jack O’Hagan and Elizabeth Campbell.
Dorothy, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. F. E.
Langley, Toorak, was linked to Dr. lan
Hart, younger son of the F. J. Harts, of
Kew, by Canon H. T. Langley, uncle of the
bride. The bridal gown was ivory satin, over
which cascaded Limerick lace. Two attend-
ant ’maids sported frocks and hats of vellum-
toned velvet. After-rejoicings took place at
Grosvenor, Toorak.
Dorothy, only child of the H. C. Lambles,
of Kew, exchanged vows at Trinity College
chapel with Donald Gardner Mack. Arch-
deacon Lambic, uncle of the bride tied the
knot. The bridal raiment was silk lace ot
deep biscuit tint, topped by a felt hat of the
same shade. Norah Strahan was the attend-
ant ’maid. . , u-
Mrs. Philip Glass is a passenger for Eng-
land in the Mongolia. She goes to join
her son Dudley, composer of musical com-
edies.
Adelaide gets a word in: —
Perfect weather blessed the race meetings at Mor-
phettville, and there have been great crowds. On
the Wednesday, Mrs. F.. W. Whyte was acting
hostess for chairman Whitmore Carr. She wore a
wine-toned cloth ensemble, with a velour hat to
match, and skunk furs. Owing to Court mourning,
the State vice-regals and the G.-G. were unable to
attend. Frocks of wool georgette, buttoning up the
throat, were a feature, and a number of red costumes
helped to brighten the gathering. The Lady Mayoress
wore all black.
The Uni. Refectory was crowded when the dance
club entertained friends. Dr. Rex Matters (presi-
dent) received the guests.
The annual ball organised by the Junior Red
Cross had a wonderful attendance at the Palais
Royal; proceeds went to the infantile paralysis
fund. The committee of over 50 worked well under
the organising secretary, Mrs. P. E. Stow. Mayoress
Glover, who is president, arrived with the Lud Mayor,
the Premier and Mrs. L. Hill, at 9 p.m., and was
received by Mrs. Stow and Mrs. C. fi. C. M ilson.
Mrs. H. J. Lipman, a vice-president of the Hackney
Free Kindergarten, has devised an original method
of raising money for the building fund. She will
coach a class in contract bridge, and hand in the fees.
The private show of Water-colors by Isabel Haynes
and woodcuts by Dorothy Lungley was crowded.
Mrs. Carlisle McDonnell launched the display. Two
of Miss Lungley’s efforts were purchased by the
Art Gallery.
The doings of Perth :
The Shakspeare Club swept up Dame Sybil Thorn-
dike to her first reception in Australia. Late-coming
holders of invitations could not squeeze into the
i Savoy dining-room and had to be content with a
peep from the hall or annexe. The Dame wore ivory
pussy-willow and a velvet coatee like a green calyx
for her pale golden head. Husband Lewis Casson,
son Christopher, Michael Martin-Harvey, in kilts, and
the Cherniavsky couple, she wearing her beautifully-
groomed black head above an ermine coat, were in
Dame Sybil’s train. Mrs.- Le Tessier spoke words of
welcome. Miss Northmore, the James lady, in black
velvet and a demure lace bertha, Kittie Gillies and
Prof. Murdoch occupied front pews. Songs by
Marcia Hodges, Ethel Ewins and Bob Buchanan,
fiddling by Keith Cummings and an excerpt from
“Henry VIII.,’’ with Maud Dingwall as Queen
Katharine, received plentiful handclapping from the
distinguished guests.
Phyllis Pope, of the sparkling brown eyes, has
accepted a ring adorned with one square diamond
from Dr. Keith Gray. Jean Crommolin is another
just-engaged lass, her man being Edwin Archard,
second son of Dr. and Mrs. Lovegrove, of Claremont.
Roses, for which Guildford is famous, were
banked in beauty and fragrance about the festive
board for the Grammar School’s ball. Headmaster
Freeth’s better half kept an official eye upon the
proceedings in russet and bronze draperies. A bustle
bow adorned Barbara Sarrel’s carnation-pink frock,
and Betty Hayward chose ring velvet of inky hue.
Greta Cockram’s taste ran to beige laces, as did
blonde Yvonne Brinkley’s. Mrs. Alex. Williams
favored a patterning of green and cherry-red, while
sister-fin-law Mrs. Scott, af Singapore, wrapped
her black net in a cherry-red coat. Joan Smith
stepped out in geranium satins; Flower Southwood
melted into black ring velvet; Vance Anderson was
beautiful as ever in camellia satins; Elizabeth Freeth
rustled youthful blue flounces; Queenie Lynn aired
a red confection from t’otherside, and Bess Edwards
was all bunny coat and frou-frou of taffetas.
Nine debs, spread their wings at the Karrakatta
Club Ball. Mrs. S. J. Anderson presented the young
things to Miss Northmore, sister of the Administrator.
Zoe Weir, the tallest bud, wore shimmery white
satins ; shell-pink laces rippled about Marjorie Hum-
phrey ; Biddy Dodd wore wee puffed sleeves to
her off• the-shoulder taffetas ; the Malloch twins were
garbed alike in primula-pink; Dorothy Roe glimmered
m ivory satins; and Mary Evans wore a symphony
of parchment tonings. Margaret Parrant trailed
flared romaine, and Dorothy Synnot camellia satins,
with peltery upon the little jacket.
A tinkle from Tassy:—
Elizabeth, daughter of Mr. K. L. Shoobridge,
Glenora, Macquarie Plains, and John Leake Hudspeth
were made one by the Dean of Hobart at St. David’s
Cathedral. The bride wore a frock of white chiffon
velvet, cut on long, plain lines; the veil of exquisite
lace, an heirloom in her husband’s mother’s family,
was caught at the back of the head with a small
wreath of orange blossoms. She carried a wee white
muff, with white begonias and green foliage upon it.
Twin-sister Norah was chief ’maid, the others being
Peggy Dick and Gwen Courthope. Their frocks of
apricot georgette were frilled to the waist, and
they wore flat chaplets of autumn-tinted leaves in
their hair. They also carried muffs of drawn
apricot georgette with autumn foliage and flame-
colored begonias on them. The reception was held
at Lindfield, Holebrook-place.
The R.S.S.L. had an inspiration which resulted in
an unusual little show in the R.S.L. buildings, where
Premier McPhee opened the ball. War souvenirs
of every sort were on view, with a collection of
most interesting maps of the various fronts. Funds
went to the unemployed returned men. The organiser
and sec. was A. A. Orchard.
Mention was made at the last meeting of the
Hobart District Nurses’ Assoc., of the long service
of Nurse Ayton, who has been an untiring worker
for 25 years. The association advertises very little,
but willing helpers and good management keep its
flag flying even in these troublous times.
Molly Eady, who is a popular young person, has
been extensively farewelled before sailing for the
Cold Country, where she and her mother will be
the guests of Mrs. Burbury, Mrs. Eady’s sister.
Hostesses of the recent farewells in the young
traveller’s honor were Mrs. Thomas Giblin, Mrs. Scott
Reid, Mrs. A. M. Stoyles and Mrs. Stanley Barnett.
Mrs. Ronald Dick, with her son and daughter,
is off for a trip to the mainland to give the
Speck’s winter a miss.
Longford Golf Club had one of Tassy’s finest
autumn days for its opening; mountain and river
and gorgeously tinted foliage never appeared to better
advantage. Mrs. Gregory and Miss Reid, secs., had
their work cut out to look after the throng and
the tea arrangements. Quite a big contingent from
Launceston went out.
The chrysanthemum show at the City Hall was
a feast of color. Other blooms were there in plenty,
but the naturalised Japanese flower had pride of
place. W. Baldwin carried off the honors for the
champion bloom.


1
§Bi
Mil
il
• 9
a
m
disregard all!
ê
Lubricants
supreme
specialized by science to protect all of the
different bearings in modern motor cars and
their power plants.
A complete ALEMITE SYSTEM spells
freedom from worry—old grease and dirt
is forced out—fresh new ALEMITE comes
in for thorough protection.
There is an Alemite Lubricant for every
wearing or bearing surface of pleasure car,
lorry or tractor. K-Aust 1-32
ALEMITE CORPORATION , Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: AIMIT- Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives: ' ' '
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284'Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.),Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
C e
V
Now in its 91st Year
“The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
FUL'L INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING BATES
Obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
, Mr. M. 's. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
7\
nart i! rg
.
I
; CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN
KMTffwP«£tO
Via
AUCKLAND
N.Z
SUVA and HONOLULU to
Vancouver. This is the attrac-
live trans-Pacific route of British
vessels of the C-A Line.
Each of these ports has its indi-
vidual charm—all offer the
traveller unlimited possibilities
for enjoyment.
For further particulars apply
Union S. S. Co., Ltd.
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street. Melbourne.
ADVERTISERS use
this great paper... . exclusively
The Brisbane “Courier” is read in every corner of Queensland:
read for'its authentic news; its authoritative articles, and for its
* sound’guidance on all public questions. Big advertisers know this:
' they invariably use the 'Brisbane “Courier”—sometimes ex-
clusively. In 193 1 the “Courier” carried at least 1 60,000 inches
more advertising than its morning rival: it carried almost as
much as two other Brisbane dailies together. Be guided by those
FACTS—largest circulation—widest coverage in city and country.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland's Leading Daily Newspaper—Established 1846.
Representative: ROBERT D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. (B 5007.)
Doctor DicK.
HUGH McCRAE'S WHIMSICAL STORY OF A DOG.
JOHN’S dog was the offspring of the street
—publicly begotten, and brought forth on
an old shirt at the back of a match
factory. When John found him he was lying
near the corner of St. Louis-averiue, just
the place where a ’bus could leap out and
put an end tt> his existence. John touched
him with the point of his stick, arid 1 at .-once
realised that the thing - might- already .have
happened. Now our friend, loves dogs almost
as much as he loves good, whisky and: cigar-
ettes; so, with war experience, it didn’t take
him long to ascertain that at' least there
weren’t any bones broken. Accordingly, he.
hailed a taxi, and with” the puppy pressed
up against liis coat soon arrived at'a, veter-
inary establishment off Bayswater-road.
Macintosh ran his hand along . the ‘ small
creature’s back, down the line' of' his; bdlly,
felt each paw separately, and at last" set
him on his feet in the yard. “There’s not
much, the matter,” ho,said. “Let hye take
charge of him till Tuesday, and I’ll make' a
report.”
On Tuesday the dog was inducted into his
master’s domicile, securing • precedence over
the sea : chest, equal to ! the .Ghiriese '.flute-
player painted on glass,.the dwarf- pomegran-
ate-tree and mahogany; chairs distributed
through the - house- Until the dog arrived
John had lived alone, but now he had an
inseparable friend ,l who shared ;- with' hiiri in
almost . everythirig—except ; whisky 'arid,
cigarettes. c A qurier relationship, •' John
appointing himself, step-parent -or ‘ “father” -
to the animal, whom he called l privately--“My
son” and before company “Doctor -Dick.”
If anyone asked how. Dick had .graduated,
John always maintained it was “a! mistake
on the examiners’ part.” ; Tlieri,. in order, to '
change the subject, he had‘ been known to
concoct a letter to the morning, paper, full
of resentment against, the civic authorities
for allowing the massacre .of Moreton'Bay
fig-trees in Hyde Park. “Their excuse that,
the fig-tree is a dirty thing, is untenable.
So are babies dirty .things ; yet we hear, of
no order for their destruction.” ,
AH the. time, Doctor Dick would sit with
him head on his master’s lap, offering con-
sultatory glances whenever he hesitated for
a thought, or a word! :
For mutual diversion, John kept (in a
string bag) a golf ball, which, at a certain
hour of the morning, he extracted very
slowly, as if he had difficulty in bringing it
to light, but really only to tantalise the dog
and to whet his appetite. Then, when he had
it fairly out of the bag, he would balance
it between thumb and forefinger and go
through the pantomime of throwing it in the
air. Doctor Dick barked'furiously, caracol-
ing towards the door and back again, his
claws rattling like loose tacks over the lino-
leumed floor.
At last. John, would .take the,dog out; him-
■■ self in waistcoat and trousers'; .the Doctor,
very excited, with - .hair the color of curry-
powder/ Their exercise ground was a small
park, - facing the. harbor, adorned by nurse-
- maids and' babies-, and by ‘the - promise of
more nursemaids and babies—that- is to say,
by sweethearts, hooked on to one another.
Here- John would shy his ball far. across the
grass'and, shouting, “Bailie to-the "father !”
watch Doctor Dick retrieve the. bouncing
sphere. This amusement continued for the
best part of half an hour; after -which the
: two would return homewards, bit by bit, up
an obstinate hill.
John always - ate .his personally chosen,
exquisitely .cooked meals with Dick’s head
resting upon his knee;. and Dick very often
was given titbits, which his master would
joyfully forego.
The dishes having been carried away,
John would stick. Ills monocle in his eye and
say, “Doctor , Dick, they won’t let me take
you into the . picture; , palace at the top of
the' road ; so Tip, going, to stay at home.”
Pause.’ - “I’m‘going 'to stay at home; and
in -return, for, this consideration, I shall
, expect you . to eritertain me with ‘The
-Growlies.’” . - .
Dick, knowing, what was expected of him,
would come further forward under John’s
hand, until the senatorial fingers entered liis
mane behind the neck. As John scraped,
whining rounds would begin to rise and
increase to a horrible crescendo which ter-
rified the people next door. Old ladies would
send their maid-servants to protest; while,
through the wall, an English voice would be
heard to exclaim “That fellow ought to be
shot for keeping a dog in the house !” But
to abrogate “The Growlies” it would need a
League of . Nations, with its ukase to desist.
At another time, John, having business in
the city, would rise early, and. hat in hand,
address his “son”: “Now, Doctor Dick, your
father is going to leave you in the liousie all
alone. Be a good boy, and keep the’bities
sharp for naughty peoples what might come
prowling about when the father isn’t home.”
Then he would feel, with his finger, if the
windows were shut; and, at last, make a
backward exit, bowing, like a Mandarin,
until he reached the door.
Doctor Dick understood, and waited by
the shadow of the sea-chest in the hall, his
moustache curled round each side of his
nose; while the celebrated “bities” glittered
underneath.
* • * # =!=
One afternoon, John and myself having
taken the Doctor for a ramble, darkness sur-
prised us. before we reached home; but it
wasn’t until John had the key in the latch
that he noticed his “son” was missing. For
a moment he stayed silent; then he said (not
to me), talking to himself, “He’s often done
this.... Some lady friend who lives round
the corner!” .
Inside the house, he became uneasy, often
looking towards the windows, which had
taken on the appearance of-blackboards on
account of the obscurity of the night. At
supper he scarcely ate anything; his mind
occupied with thoughts of Dick, took him
away from his present surroundings, so that
instead of being in the room, lie imagina-
tively walked the streets. He saw his “son”
running through traffic-jambs, kicked down
side-lanes, being battered—even murdered—
by dogs of the underworld, or else carried
to lethal chambers in a cart stinking of
ordure and mange. He drank more than he
habitually did, but without becoming gar-
rulous, and, only opened his mouth to oast
forth volumes of smoke while he slipped
further into Iris dreams away from reality.
As for myself, I took glass for glass with ’
him.
Suddenly he. stood up, and, going outside,
whistled from the doorstep shrill question-
calls that pierced the night; whistled for
minutes together.
No answer came.
. The tall flats, like sleeping ships, lay on
either side of the avenue, and the road
simulated smooth water.
Between whistles we had drinks; and,
judging by the depth of the decanter, John
must have whistled a lot.
At last, towards three o’clock in the morn-
ing, innumerable Dicks came scampering in.
John stared down at them and shook his
head. “Where have you been?” he exclaimed.
“He was a'bad boy to frighten his father
Why did lie go away and not tell his. father
anything about it?”
The innumerable Dicks' turned up more
than innumerable eyes; and they were
instantly forgiven.
Mother of All.
“All ye who grievous burthens bear,”
Thus Mother Nature cries,
“All ye who gaze upon the world
Through tired and hopeless eyes,
Oh, seek me on the spacious plains,
Or seek me by the sea,
Or seek me on the mountain height,
And' peace I’ll give to ye !
“To know this truth, look where you will,
About you and above —
If care is yours., ’tis not my fault,
For mighty is my love.
How can I manifest that love,
Or stead you in your need,
When, sealed from me by roof and wall,
A prisoned life you lead?
“Long, long ago I was your nurse,
And o’er you bent and smiled.
When men were woodland wanderers,
Arid campers in the wild ;
Long, long ago in Primal Times
I nursed you at my breast,
Gave food to you, and when you ailed
With weary limbs, gave rest.
“ ’Neath leafage thick or in some cave,
Some cavern, softly mossed,
A shelter did I find for you
Against the sleet and frost;
Peace did I give you, health and strength,
Ere you, alas, misled
My woodland ways, my wide ways left
Down narrow ways to tread.
“All ye who grievous burthens bear,
Who find the path uphill—
Uphill, uphill, day in, day out —
Know that I love you still!
Oh, seek me then ’neath open skies,
Or seek me by the sea,
Or seek me on the mountain heights,
And I will comfort ye.
“Seek me, your mother and your nurse,
And you shall find relief,
Safe sanctuary and succor sure,
From trouble, strife . and grief;
Wayfarers down blithe woodland ways,
Who woodland music heed.
You’ll sense that life is good to live,
And very good,’ indeed !
“This, this I say.to young and old,
That should they solace seek
In times of tumult, times of stress,
When worn and maimed and weak.
With fate and fortune, pain and loss,
A failing fight they wage— .
Still shines their green ancestral realm,
Their ancient heritage.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Lack.
I said “I will write, I will write;
I will storm the'dark fort of the night;
I will question the sun arid the rain;
I will drink of humanity’s pain;
I will wring mine own . agony dry ;.
I will try, I will try.
My themes shall be passion and grief.”
As I said it, a tender green leaf
Unfolded itself on a bough
Where a bird fluted effortless, low —
And I wept that my song must be wrought
With the sinews and muscles, of thought,
I wept for the spontaneity
God-granted to bird and to tree!
QUEENSLAND.
ARIADNE.


#
0
V
Nature’s Remedy for
Constipation
TVTATURE has decreed an inflexible rule that the
1 bowels must operate every day. They are the
main channel which Nature has appointed to
carry away everything unnecessary, and it is
impossible to tell what a large amount of sickness
has been caused by constipation or costiveness; in
other words, by not keeping the bowels regular
—it is the main road to all diseases; it is the cause
of unnatural irritation to the mucous or lining
membrane of the bowels. Having lost their
natural strength they object to do what is
required of them. Hence the bowels become
inflamed, and unless you find a speedy relief a
thousand other complaints are ever ready to drag
you through a miserable and wretched life.
Such medicine must be given as will cleanse the
stomach and bowels, and restore their natural
strength. To accomplish this there is no compound
so valuable as Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, which
are purely vegetable and do not gripe. They
restore the bowels to healthy action by stirring
the liver and regulating the other organs of digestion.
D* Morse's
Q
0
*
ew
WORMS
And the best method of Treatment.
Worms, by their movements and the inter-
ruption they offer to the contents of the
Bowels, generally occasion pain or uneasi-
ness in the Abdomen, sometimes spasmodic,
sometimes gnawing and biting, and not in-
frequently of a vague; indescribable char-
acter, and yet very distressing. Sympathetic
with this is a sensation of itching at the
Nostrils, producing a disposition to pick the
Nose, which is characteristic of the affection.
The Bowels are often disordered, sometimes
relaxed, as in Dysentery. The appetite is
exceedingly variable, in some cases natural,
in others deficient, craving or depraved, one
condition not infrequently alternating with
another. The Abdomen is often hard, swol-
len and tympanetic, the breath heavy or
foetid, and tongue furred, with disagreeable
taste and a copious flow of saliva ; swelling
of the upper lip, bleeding of the nostrils, and
disposition to grind the teeth during the
sleep are other characteristic symptoms. The
effects, however, often extend beyond the
Alimentary Canal, and various derangements
of health are experienced in consequence,
either of the direct irritation of the worms
or of the disordered digestion which they
occasion. Among the most common of these
are nervous affections, such as fretfulness,
irritation of temper, wakefulness or disposi-
tion to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, sud-
den starting out of sleep, as if from fright,
dizziness, spasmodic movements of the eye-
lids, dilated pupils, perverted vision, tem-
porary blindness and deafness. General con-
vulsions are not infrequent in children, and
symptoms strongly resembling Water on
the Brain” have been ascribed to worms, and
have ceased on. their expulsion.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to recog-
nise the fact that their little ones arc suffer-
ing intense pain and distress, ' and are
practically irresponsible for the outbursts of
temper, restlessness and peevishness, and
until some more serious symptoms appear
nothing is done to alleviate the distress. The
symptoms of this disease are somewhat vari-
able, but generally they are so characteristic
that no mother need have any doubts. The
best proof of tvorms is worms, and if the
general. conduct of the child is such as to
give the slightest suspicion, a careful watch
will afford ample proof.
A child who is affected with Thread Worms
will often appear to the eye to be in an
indifferent state of health. It becomes
peevish and irritable in its temper. Another
point to which the attention ,of mothers
should be specially directed is that the child
is apt to start in its sleep, its repose being
in the way pf a disturbed nature.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
compounded on a scientific principle for the
eradication of Stomach and Thread Worms.
They contain specific properties wdiieh de-
stroy the worms, but cause no injury to the
Stomach or Bowels, and do not weaken the
system. The pellets are prepared in the
form of a confection or lolly, have no dis-
agreeable taste or smell ; but, on the con-
trary, inspire children to take them as they
would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or
direct from the W. 11. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Price,
4/- per packet (6 packets, 23/- post free).
If writing, please mention The Bulletin.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
s*J%uUetCn
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which 1 enclose £....
NAME .
ADDRESS '.
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/*; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/«
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/»
ŵ
0
a*
o°
©
-p
\o
o»
s 6
\r n
# 4 '


M
-Instilled
new lUe
into me”
“ Three months ago I started
taking Sanatogen on the advice of
my doctor. My system had been
undermined by years of neurotic
strain and mental debility and I
could not expect miracles to happen,
But a miracle did happen, and
in a few short weeks I found
myself acquiring a new sense of
well-being. Depression disappear-
ed. All neurotic tendencies have
gone. Now after three months of
regular treatment of Sanatogen, I
am reborn. Sanatogen has instilled
new life into me. It is amazing.”
JiM*
m
/i
WM
WO,
■** *
£
r
W
z
• • ,'jp
t- w' ■ •
.n~‘
'V
i
m
: J
A miracle 1 No ! Simply the logical effect of a
true scientific nerve-food on weakened nerves.
Sanatogen contains the two vital elements
phosphorus and pure milk albumin—your nerve
cells need. It must strengthen and revitalize
your body and nerves.
Why not try it for yourself and feel the wonder-
ful influence of Sanatogen on your whole
health and happiness.
SANATOGEII
Sanatogen is obtainable at all Chemists.
Made by Genatosan Ltd., Loughborough, England.
1
Diagram of nerves in the body ,
Weakening of the nerves may result in
irregular functioning of almost every organ
of the body. ‘ Nerves’, digestive troubles,
stomach pains, sleeplessness all these
different complaints are usually due to one
and the same cause: Weak Nerves. But by
taking Sanatogen you can feed and strength-
en the weakened nerves and so regain new
health.
