

t n
i
m,
«
mm
W' : ’
a
m
S'
m
■
W" m K fin^W
ii»\
21 "I
__ IIPIIIPP;
• ;;;
ji
IIP!
#-; x?xv
r
HP!
i :
m
> v
5
'wm ttftcifll
ym?
mi
m
m.
mmsmm
HOW to minimise that main
cause of tyre destruction —the
terrific heat generated by road fric-
tion —is a problem at last mastered
in the new design Barnet Glass Tyre.
... Heat is reduced by a new scien-
tific balance between the stretch of
rubber and cords. ... Heat is dissu
pated by the fan-blade action of the
buttressed side walls. These stout
buttresses also provide an effective
armour for the casing, protecting it
against curb cutting and abrasion
and preventing distortion. .. . The
new Caterpillar Traction Tread
maintains positive road grip at all
angles, ensures direct driving without
slip and perfect control when
\ accelerating or braking.
IHi
13®
HEAT'
Standard High-Grade
MOTORTYRE
CATERPILLAR TRACTION TREAD
ARMOURED WALL
Barnet Glass Tyres
asdfs
{or£ndurdnce
The Bulletin
tJluMh&Jliad "to- .
Vol. 53.—N0. 2743.
Wednesday, September 7, 1932,
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


1932 Library Catalogue is, now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
freelance Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation . your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ‘ 1
My Same .
V’ 1 Address
S.B, 132 ..
Pr'SAGHT
o
a
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
to
' oifclTMEb *y
icura
r
rt) \ jTALCUM X.
CXSOAP A
-X)
\
OLt#>
For over half a century
Cutieura Preparations
have been known and sold
over all the world, and they
are just as popular today as
ever: the Soap for regular
toilet use, the Ointment
to heal skin troubles and
the Talcum as a finishing
touch to the toilet.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free. Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.
Cutieura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you neglect to use “The Age” for adver-
tising, you miss one of the most vital features
in your Victorian: campaign,-, and no advertiser
who is spending large sums to produce,
advertise and sell an article can afford to
take that risk,
“THE AGE”
has over 119,000 daily subscribers who have
confidence in their chosen publication, ; and
because it is a newspaper that not only goes
into the home but reaches the very heart of
the household, the advertiser who places his
products or service on record in its columns
is assured of dependable reader value.
“The Age” publishes over 1,000,000
advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all Sta'tes, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
PH3ZS33EXI
BLPIRECTMEDIUM Tg WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C, HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander, - ’, 6d. weeldy—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices.
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet. their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
If You Want Queensland Trade,
You Must Advertise in
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
This great Queensland daily, and its
companion journal, the “Sunday
Mail,” give a second-to-none
“cover” in the metropolitan area and
in country districts. Their popu-
larity is explained by their brightness
and the all-round excellence of their
news features. The strong circulation
position of both papers is revealed by
recently issued independently verified
audited certificates. Rate cards, etc.,
, from
Robert Jackson,
72 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(’Phone: 81522.)
•mi;
That.the Soundest State
is
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
is renowned for its vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
carries more classified adver-
tisements than any other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an eco-
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph”
leads the way.
/
TELEGRAPH
BRISBANE* LEADING HOME NEWSPAPER
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
The Flight from Democracy
The thesis of each of the works reviewed
below is different. The first is by a Spanish
philosopher who. in the translator’s phrase,
“shares with Miguel de Unamuno the
intellectual leadership of a large section of
modern Spain.” He is an authoritarian
who attributes the present plight of the
world to “the accession of the masses to
complete social power.” In the second a
German economist analyses the results of
a system which recognises no supreme head,
creed or moral or political principle, and
which is operated by politicians—men who
maintain themselves in exalted positions by
pandering to voters. The third, which is by
a former French Minister of Public Works,
is the latest examination of the situation
in Soviet Russia, by one who has been
there in an official capacity. He traces the
revolution from its origin as a struggle
for economic and political freedom, as
Western Europe understands the term, to
its present stage, which is a negation of
freedom—an example of national submis-
siveness, willingly endured for an ideal,
the like of which has not been witnessed
since the Age of Faith. The three combine
to supply answers to some questions that
millions are asking.
An Age of Futility
The basic contention of Ortega Y. Gasset
in The Revolt of the Masses (Allen and
Unwin, 8s. 6d.) is that the machine of
civilisation has grown too complicated for
those who are handling it. The world
in this epoch of tired disbelief has
more amenities than at any other time,
more luxuries, more pleasures, more occu-
pations; but it isn’t enjoying them ade-
quately. Like the young Louis XV. it
“has all the talents except the talent to
make use of them.” It is a common trouble
with sovereigns, whether they are royal
ones or sovereigns of finance or sovereign
peoples. The nations of the world, like so
many of the kings who fell in the past,
are without imperatives. They are com-
posed of irresponsible.s whose most trusted
servants are professional flatterers. Since
democracy became practically universal the
world has been, so to speak, on holiday.
But free “bread and circuses” do not give
lasting satisfaction.
Without commandments, obliging us to
live after a certain fashion, our existence is
that of the “unemployed.” This is the ter-
rible spiritual situation in which the best
youth of the world finds itself to-day....
Before long there will be heard through the
planet a formidable cry, rising like the
howling of innumerable dogs to the stars,
asking for someone or something to take
command, to impose an occupation, a duty.
His conclusion is that salvation can only
come through a United States of Europe,
rationalised and governed on the iron lines
of the U.S.S.R. Gan it be achieved? He
is doubtful. “A great civilisation has died
before through not being able to adopt a
substitute for its traditional idea of the
State.”
The Debts Nightmare
Kuno Renatus, author of The Twelfth
Hour of Capitalism (Allen and Unwin, 7s.
6d.), is a realist who is only concerned
indirectly with the responsibilities of the
democracies for the world war. If it had
been waged on either side by an efficient
dictator, instead of by generals who had
to divide their attention between their
enemies and their politicians, if, in short,
it had been a brief war, it might have paid
the victors. But it was a typical peoples’
war, with every important step being made
days or months or (as in the case of the
U.S.A.) years too late. So it was a long
war, and long wars, under modern condi-
tions, mean ruin to the victors, equally
with the vanquished. There is no profit in
indemnities even where victory is sudden
and complete. The Franco-German war
presented Australia with thousands of
citizens of German birth who were exiled,
paradoxically, by the speedy payment of
the French indemnity, which rushed up
the cost of living in the Fatherland.
AH a short war does for the winner
is to provide fresh avenues for pro-
ductivity—rich territories, economic unions,
etc. —and such gains, as the Germans
have found, are often transitory. This
writer attributes most of the world’s pre-
sent troubles to the fact that its war lasted
too long. He imagines a sovereign with a
pathological building craze who, a.s soon as
his fantastic palaces are completed, destroys
them and financed more by internal loans.
Money rolls in,
trade booms, prices
rise, statistics show
that prosperity was
never so great.
Then the sove-
reign dies, the
building campaign stops, and his successor
starts to deal with the loans. Millions go.
annually into the pockets of the loan-holders
in interest and repayment. Some comes
back to the State in taxation, some is
devoted to consumption. But by now.
owing to raised prices, the incomes of the
smaller loan-holders are negligible; and the
profiteers, owing to raised wages (resulting
from raised prices), are hoarding their sur-
pluses or investing them abroad. The
country would be in an equally bad posi-
tion if it had lent money to finance the
building operations of a neighbor:—and it
would be in a worse one if the neighboi
suddenly repudiated.
To have to produce interest for unpro-
ductive capital drains away the substance of
any country's trade and industry, and accord-
ingly it makes no difference whether the
country was a victor in the War or a de-
feated country. Now it is quite clear why
rich America is competing with poor tier-
many in number of unemployed.
His remedy is deflation by international
arrangement, a writing off of the bad,
debts in the books of the world. And he
concludes with something like a threat.
Russia’s flight into Bolshevism took place
when the pressure of war indebtedness had
become unendurable. There seems to be a
law that when the pressure of public debts
reaches a certain point it becomes prefer-
able to take refuge in Bolshevism, much as
at the moment when leather prices attain a
certain level tlie shoes outside the bedroom-
doors inevitably begin to be stolen.
A Frenchman on Russia
What are the potentialities of this , form
of government which one of the writers
mentioned above advocates for Europe, apd
the other threatens Europe with? A. de
Monzie gives his opinion in New Russia
(Allen and Unwin, 12s. 6d.). Soviet Russia,
with all its disabilities, has what Europe
and every nation in Europe at present lack
—national ideals and a master. The
(Red Page continued on page b.j
A NATIONAL SONG.
Prize Competition.
Entries Close November 16.
It was lately announced that at the
approaching Conference of Directors of
Education Mr. Mcßae, Acting-Director of
Education in Victoria, would bring for-
ward the question of a National Song, It
was pointed out that different national
songs were sung in different States—even in
different schools in the same State—and
it was felt to be highly desirable, that a
song should be chosen as the Australian
National Song to be sung throughout the
Commonwealth.
On the publication of this report The
Bulletin got into touch with' Mr. Mcßae
and suggested that, as no very outstanding
Song of Australia had thus far been pub-
lished, and as an exceptionally large number
of Australians were now writing verse,
further entries should be invited. Mi'.
Mcßae replied with warm approval of the
suggestion, and requested The Bulletin
to arrange and carry through the competi-
tion. It gladly accepts the responsibility,
and now invites entries.
The present competition is for the words
only of a national Australian song or
anthem suitable for use in schools and else-
where. Entries will be received up to and
including November 16, 1932.
Entries are to be enclosed in an envelp.no
addressed “Song Competition,” Bulletin
Office, Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney. The
verses are to be signed with a pen-name;
and the pen-name and the real name of
the writer must accompany the verses in
a sealed -envelope.
A First Prize of £25 and a Second Prize
of £lO will be awarded by the Bulletin
Newspaper Co. Entries are free.
The entries will be judged at the earliest
possible moment, and it is hoped that the
results will be announced on December 14,
There will be five consolation prizes of
£1 each.
The Bulletin and Woman’s Mirror are
to have the right to publish the verses sub-
mitted, and it shall be a condition of entry
that the authors consent and agree to the
republication of their prize verses and
further agree that they may be set to music
and sung without royalty.
There is no limit to the number of entries
a writer may send in.
If any further information is desired, The
Bulletin will be glad to furnish it on
request.
Closing date: November 16, 1932.


‘TRUTH 1$ ADVERTISING”—PIain Fads, Open Dealing.
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
Horderns’
Mil
IM
.. - .
s~ >' ....
Best Quality MATERIALS
White Calicoes from Bid. yard
Horrockses’ White Calicoes, 36in. wide.
Prices, yard . .. . . B|d., 9£d., 1/5, 1/7, 1/9, 1/11
'//.-? *■■ ; . y..." > \ ■ y.. . . . ..
Unbleached Calicoes from 1/- yd.
Unbleached Calicoes. 36in. wide.
Prices, yard . . 1/-, 1/2, 1/4, 1/5, 1/6
White Madapolams from 1/- yd.
White Madapolams. 36in. wide, 40in. wide,
Prices, yards . •• 1/-, 1/3. 1/6, 1/8, 1/11
Crewdson’s Longcloths from 1/6 yd.
Crewdson’s Longcloths. 36in. wide.
Prices, yard 1/6, 1/9, 1/11, 2/1, 2/3
Pillow Cottons from only 1/- yd.
Horrockses’ Pillow Cottons. 40in. wide..
Prices, yard .. 1/-, 1/3, 1/6, 1/9
Fadeless Col’d Linen Cambric 3/3 yd.
Fadeless Colored Linen Cambric for Ladies’ or Children’s
outer- and under-wear. 36 inches. In Saxe, Pink, Tea Rose,
Lemon, Orange, Peach, Eau-de-Nil, Apricot and Biscuit.
Price, yard . . . . . . . . 3/3
Poplin de Luxe Shirting from 1/6 yd.
Poplin de Luxe Shirting. Smart designs. 31-32 inches.
Price, yard 1/6, 1/11, 2/3, 2/11
Unbleached Sheetings from 1/6 yd.
Twilled' Unbleached Sheetings.
(Manchester Dept.—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Carriage paid within
the State oj N.S.W.)
offer these exceptional
MANCHESTER
VALUES
Thrifty housewives! Hotelkeepers! Proprietors of
boarding-houses! Here is your chance to save on
standard Manchester QUALITY VALUES that are
famous throughout the whole length and breadth
of this country. Anthony Horderns’ name, when
associated with linenpress essentials, is the high
ideal of QUALITY, SERVICE and real
ECONOMY. Replenish NOW! Here, indeed, are
rare and wonderful savings.
SHEETS and SHEETINGS
Finlay’s Plain or Twill Sheets from 11 9 pair
Plain or Twill Weaves.
54 x 90
ll/9
Finlay’s Sheets.
Sizes, ins
Prices, pair
Finlay’s Best Quality Sheets.
Sizes, ins
Prices, pair
Finlay’s White Sheetings. P
Width, ins.
Prices, yard
Prices, yard
54 x 90
15/3
x or Twi
54
2/3
2/11
Standard Plain or Twill Sheetings from 13 yard
90
2/11
3/3
3/9
4/3
Standard Twilled White Sheetings.
Width, ins
Prices, yard
Prices, yard
Prices, yard
Prices,- yard
Prices, yard
54
1/6
1/8
1/9
2/1
2/4
63
2/-
2/3
2/6
2/11
Standard Twilled Sheets.
Sizes, ins. 54 x 90
Prices, pair .... 7/11
Prices, pair .... 8/11
Prices, pair .... 9/3
Prices, pair ... 10/11
Prices, pair .... 12/3
Standard Plain White Sheets.
Sizes, ins 54 x 90
Prices, pair .... 6/9
Prices, pair .... 7/11
Prices, pair .... 9/3
Prices, pair .... ilo/ll
Prices, pair 12/3
63 x 90
10/6
11/9
13/-
15/3
63 x 90
9/3
11/9
12/11
Plain Unbleached Sheetings
Plain Unbleached Sheetings. Keenly priced.
Width, ins. ...... • 54 60
Prices, yard . . 1/6
Prices, yard 1/3 1
Prices, yard 1/10 2/3
Prices, yard .. . 2/- 2 6
Prices, yard 2/3 2/9
Prices, yard 2/6 2/11
“Hordura” Registered Sheets
Avail-
“Hordura” Regd. Sheets. Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’.
able in Plain or Twill Weaves. lAa
Sizes, ins 54 x9O 63 x9O 72 x 100 80 x 108 90 x 108
Prices, pair . 11/9 14/3 17/11 19/9
24/6
“Hordura” Hemstitched Sheets. Boxed in pairs.
Sizes, ins 63 x 100 72 x 100
Prices, pair 17/6 19/11
80x 108 90x 108
23/6 26/6
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O


su
n
%
VI
y <£k
V
R
3
*#>•
a;
v
ii
a
!«i
*
@
J#
r-w;
1
P
I
>;■;
s
lb J
F/D
i
(MX
S^sc.
■p's
s'»v r
f r
zm
vc
Now , in a Regal Decanter ..
as befits a spirit of high degree
• A sense of the fitness of things demands
that King George IV. Whisky should be
contained in a fine decanter of gleaming
glass. For such a choice spirit; that neither
calls for nor admits of improvement in
quality, an ordinary bottle seems utterly
inadequate.
Your palate tells you why. You find in
King George IV. Whisky the mellowness
and lightness of character preferred by nine
men out of ten, combined with the full , rich
quality of rare , old Highland Malt that
gives this fine Scotch Whisky its distinctive
flavor.
The Decanter of King George IV. Whisky, bear-
ing no permanent advertising matter, is sold at
all hotels and clubs and costs very little more
than the standard quart bottle.
If you have difficulty in obtaining, communicate with
the Distributors: —Distillers Distributing Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth; G. F. Cleland & Sons, Ltd.,
Adelaide; Thos. Brown & Sons, Ltd., Brisbane;
Cummins & Campbell, Ltd., Townsville, who will see
that you are supplied.
kjssi; i;i:oim:k it.
Supsrfme liOLh LIBEL
SCOTCH WHISKY
A RIGHT ROYAL SPIRIT
sf
ALL SUPERFINE SCOTCH


RENEW VIGOUR WITH
i
k.
1
¥ m
M
Although many people blame
weariness of body on to overwork
or long hours, usually the real
cause is the accumulation of
poisons in the blood due to un-
suspected constipation. Nature is warning
you that your system is not completely rid-
ding itself of its daily waste. Do not allow
constipation to rob you of that vigour which
means real health. Take a sparkling glass of
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” every morning, and keep
your system thoroughly free from the stag-
nating poisons that so quickly sap your
vitality. Buy a bottle of Eno today.
words Gno and "*3ruit Salt” are registered trade marks.
Sales exigents: ’■'She (British (Harold (Ritchie & Go. (6td. Sydney.
Au7
ENOS FRUIT SALT
Russians have substituted for the faiths
which have been undermined by "higher”
and other criticism in Europe a religion
of industrialisation.
It stirs the hearts of the Russian masses,
just as the defence of their country was the
only thought in 1914 of French and Belgians.
The poorest follow the statistics and study
the figures, and the sacrifices of every day
are cheerfully endured in the cause of their
Ideal, just as an ascetic counts sufferings
and privations as the glorification of his
creed.
One sees the effects in such books as
Knickerbocker’s “Soviet Trade and World
Depression,” recently reviewed on this page.
The Russians are undercutting foreign com-
petitors by 25 per cent, or more in most
lines. But they are going hungry them-
selves. “It is a mystery,” wrote Essad
Bey in his “Stalin,” “how they survive the
strain.” And they are suffering from two
other deprivations. In this attempt to
recast human mentality, “to build up a
new type of man” in the phrase of the
economist Sabsovitch, mystical religion and
the family have no place. The first is
“a dope”—something that offers peace in
the hereafter as a reward for conduct
which has nothing to do with the industrial
war—and the second is a hindrance to pre-
occupation with national efficiency. “The
battle on the religious front” had a good
deal of success when it was first launched
in 1925. This writer believes it is failing
now, and, drawing an analogy from the
anti-religious war which was begun in his
own country at the end of the eighteenth
century, he argues that it never had a
chance of success. Neither, he concludes,
has the campaign against family life. But
the one-man government, which suits the
mentality of the inhabitants, is likely to
remain, and that implies unprecedented
industrial and agricultural efficiency in years
to come. Never before has so much as a
small State been organised from above
on such lines. As to Tie likelihood of
Europe or any part of it being able to
follow suit he is sceptical. The require-
ment is a twelfth-century nation directed
by twentieth-century technicians, and the
combination doesn’t exist elsewhere.
RED PAGE.
Alan D. Mickle v. Socrates, Junr.
Socrates would have taken delight in
Alan D. Mickle (R.P. 17/8/’32). The old
gentleman used to go round Athens making
people less sure of themselves. When they
talked about Virtue, Truth, Love, Beauty
and such like he used to invite them to
define those expressions, and they mostly
got in a sad muddle. The Athenians didn’t
like being made unsure of themselves, so
they settled the old chap’s hash by poison-
ing him. That was an argument to which
even Socrates hadn’t an answer. Not being
a Socrates I don’t know how he would
conduct a discussion with Mr. Mickle, but
I find his method attractive. Mr. Mickle
is. of course, not obliged to accept respon-
sibility for any of the remarks he makes
in the following dialogue unless he wants to.
“Hail, O Mickle! How goes it with you?”
"By Jupiter, it goes well, O Showman.
I have had several articles on the Red Page
of The Bulletin lately.”
“Good, O Mickle! What was the purport
of the articles?”
“I endeavored to convince a misguided
person on the staff of that usually reliable
journal who has an altogether unfounded
admiration of Shaw’ that liis judgment was
contrary to all reason, and that in compari-
son , with Shakspeare and Euripides his
fancy is a mere outsider.”
“What was the tenor.of your argument?”
“I told him that Shaw had no majesty, a
virtue which Shakspeare and Euripides have
in abundance.”
“What do you imply by majesty, O
Mickle?”
“Majesty, Showman, is the ever-present
suggestion of an inevitable fatefulness. It
is present in the ‘Macbeth’ of Shakspeare
and the ‘Medea’ of Euripides, hut there is
not a trace of it in the ‘Saint Joan’ of
Shaw, their degenerate descendant.”
“By Jupiter, Mickle, it seems an excellent
definition. Would you say that majesty is an
attribute of men or of things?”
“Of both, Showman, certainly.”
“Would you say that Mr. Jack Lang had
majesty ?”
“No, by the gods! Look at the company
he keeps.”
“Then would you say it was an attribute
of kings and emperors—of Nero and the
Kaiser, for instance?”
“By no means. Those people were entirely
lacking in majesty.”
“But would you not say that in the career
of Mr. Lang there is an ever-present sugges-
tion of an inevitable fatefulness, as '’also
there was in the careers of Nero and the
Kaiser?”
“I suppose so. Showman.”
“So that a thing can have an ever-present
suggestion of an inevitable fatefulness and
yet not be majestical?”
“It seems so, the way you put it.”
“It appears, therefore, O Mickle, that we
are no nearer defining this thing which is
absent in the play of Shaw but present in
the plays of Euripides and Shakspeare. Can
you tell me what is the particular ingredient
of this attribute of majesty which is present
in the. works of the two last-named gentle-
men ?”
“It is that profound something that
through all the ages motivates the varinns
forms of life-expression.”
“Would you not say, O Mickle that
Medea represents a woman motivated bv the
instinctive desire to obtain security for her
offspring, complicated by the instinct of self
preservation, the frustration of which drives
her even to the murder of her children ■> And
would you not say also that Macbeth is moti-
vated by the Will to Power, which nowadays
takes the form of getting on in the world
by commercial competition, but which in his
day obliged him to do an unconscionable lor
of killing?”
“I can see no flaw in your reasoning,
Showman. But it only shows their great:
sense of reality.”
“Then may not Shaw, by picturing a Saint
Joan using her superior intelligence to over-
come the driller wits of her contemporaries,
be also showing us a human being motivated
by the Will to Power, but from a different
angle? And, if so, is not Shaw also dealing
with a reality ?” ,
“Not as I see it. . Showman."
“What is this object against which I am
at the moment leaning?”
“A lamp-post.”
“Exactly, Mickle. It is a lamp-post. Any-
body can see it is a lamp-post. And to the
workman who, to my discomfiture, I observe
has only recently painted it it is a liveli-
hood. But to a physicist it is a dance of
electrons and to an artist it is a collection
of color patches relieved against other color
patches and to a philosopher it may merely
be an event in space-time. It seems, there-
fore. O Mickle, that there are many sorts of,
realities.”
“Granting the validity of your argument,
what has that got to do with it?”
“I am coming to that. O Mickle. You
admit that a lamp-post may be several dif-
ferent things to several different people and
vet to each of them he a separate reality. May
'not Shaw, by giving'us a Saint Jc-an who.
moved by an instinctive desire, uses her
reason to gratify that desire, be showing us
one reality; just as Shakspeare and Euripides,
by giving us a Macbeth and a Medea, who.
moved by their desires, rip and roar about
the stage in a frenzy of homicidal mania,
show us another reality? For, after all,
people do reason sometimes, though they
often reason badly. Mickle; and Joan Seems
to have been a fairly reasonable person, since
she did get the English out of France, which
was what everybody wanted, though they
didn’t know how to go’about it. Ought we
not to be grateful to a writer wliq gives us
this fresh reality?”
“When you put it that way, Showman, f
suppose, we ought to.”
“So it may be that Shaw is just as majes-
tical in his way as Shakspeare and Euripides
are in theirs. By Bacchus, it is ten to six!
We must hurry or we will be too late to
have a snifter.”
SUNDRY SHOWMAN.
And a Little Verse
dARK MYRA:
You are so vivid!
How I love your words.
Gushing torrentially as the birds’!
. . . .The wildwood magpie,
....The ecstatic thrush,
....The burning skylark in his skiey bush!
....A gleaming blackbird,
Song on song on song
Of earth’s bedreuching. ...
Shrill! and sweet! and strong!
QUEENSLAND.
L. L.
THEME FOR VIOLINS.
Cold metal flutes drip silver song
Down dim miry gardens; and thin.
Thin as the notes from the edge of a dream.
Wavers the chilled violin.
Thin, thin, airily thin.
Sings the enchanted violin !
Light as a husk, a wisp of a girl
Whirls through the silhouette leaves,
Slender and soft as a feathered moon-moth,
Stealing, a princess of thieves,
Into this heart, as hollow and deep
As the wastes of night and the wells of
sleep.
Like moon-bubbles blown from a drowsy P’pe
White ghostly peacocks pass,
Light as the kiss from flattering lips.
Silverly-staining the grass.
But lost, lost, lost is. that girl
With unquiet eyes and a neck of pearl!
Unquiet as morning oboes low
Through the harp’s- white-eloyer swirl.
Through the fluttering lights of "the orchestra
I can espy my girl.
As she smiles at the thin, passionately thin,
Cameo face of the first violin !
Thin. thin, lacily thin
Chuckles the elfin violin!
N.S.W.
ADRIAN SUMMERS.
THE SINGER.
He found his themes
In wisps o’ dreams,
And lilted, passing by,
Of lovely things,
Like angel wings
And little bits of sky;
Of slumb’rous hours
In lush-green bowers.
Of plashing fountains cool;
Snow-lathered hills,
And daffodils.
And lilies in a pool;
Of fields of stars,
And lattice bars
Half-hiding glowing eyes •
Of spices fine,
And mellow wine,
And silken tapestries;
Of rigadoon,
And jewelled shoon,
And flaunting gonfalons:
Of gentle breeze,
Pellucid seas,
And gilded galleons;
Of languid noons
And pearly moons
In many an olden land;
The caravan
To Ispahan,
Bokhara, Samarkand....
And little cared
How ill he fared.
But sang the Beautiful
To stony hearts
And men of parts
Who cursed him for a fool.
VICTORIA.
JOHN STANLEY.
Answers to Correspondents.
A’o notice fexcept of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficient lit stamped. Same
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is, undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted .
■ and no MS. mil b% returned' unless stamps accompany.
J.E.8.: Leans too heavily on coincidence.
.. . . H.M.D.: You make a promising start, and then
fall into the gutter... .E.E.S.: There ought to be
space for a yarn as good as that; but there isn’t.
.... G.R.M.: But you miss the whole point. The
question is, can we get prices back to the 1922-27
level?, If we can’t, and if we must face pre-war
figures, bvhat are we going to do?. . . .Lloyd IV.: Your
“Ti-tree” has charm; Itlie filial couplet weakens it.
Glad to hear from you again. .. .H.J.P. : Aiuetnic.
.. . .G.M.C.: What a tangle !. .. .Paul L. G.: Brisbane
may yet be proud to quote your compliments. So
far tlieyhe rather 'forced. .W.G.8.: Yes, it could
be condensed; but you haven't loft room for a pen
to creep in between vour lines. The contributor who
puts ’ his typewritten stuff through a wool-press is
liable to blind the reader before the usable part is
reached. .. .Stan B.: Sorry, quite hopeless. .. .F.A.S.:
Too long for our use. .. . M.L.G.: Some nature
magazine should welcome it. .. ..J.P.: Merit in them;
but a bit too didactic. .. .Helen D.: Beware of-shop-
soiled phrases* But you've got. a feeling for color.
....ILK.: No snap in it. .. . J.A.8.: What “Irre-
coverable’’,’ is about, remains indisccvcrable to us.
. ...A.G.8.: Such meditations are a drug in the
basket, v.:Expert Too: Can't find the space....
A.C.W.: Ag, a sonneteer you hardly reach the level
of Henry Parke's. . . .F.W.H.: It opened promisingly
enough,', only ito sag away into muddy incoherence.
... .W.W.8.: “Perpetrated” is the right word....
W.L.H.: Tinkles tunefully along without arriving
anywhere! .. . J.A.: That ought to stimulate some
of them
We have athletes galore,
But our poets are poor,
In spite of . the pensions we grant them.
Our musicians are base.
And we 'feel the disgrace
Of having no National Anthem.
... . J. 8.: “My glorious Star at birth was mighty
Jove.” Maybe, but you can’t rhyme for nuts....
L. : Disqualified this . time for boring. . . .Don
Beer: AH froth, no body. .. .Yelsha: There’s humor
in it, but it needs too much explanatory preface.. ..
E.K.: Bald prose, cut into irregular lengths, won’t
make verse.’. . .H.S.: It has historical interest, no-
thing more... .Le G.: Climax too obvious. .. .H.P.:
You overstress unimportant details. .. .W.8.R.: No-
thing new in it. . . .F.M.: Grew weary of her curtain-
lectures .... D. 8.: -Almost sent us to sleep.... K.W.:
Tale of double-dealing has been told many times....
E.R.N.: That worm won’t turn in these pages
A.H.J.: A trivial episode and 'you waste 3000 words
on it... .V.J.: Babbling boarding-house keeper spoils
the thing... .N.E.M.: It calls, for brickbats.... G.S. r
No punch in it. . . .R.F.: Try your hand at something
cheerful; we’re inundated with tales of g100m....
M. : ’Aviation \stdry fairly well told, but too
technical.. .L W.A.M.: Few drunks are interesting
talkers,, and yours is no exception.... S.Y.: Jilted
youth was turned down here, a150...C.5.: Theatrical.
* C.8.P.: Unpolished J.8.W.: Nut dazzled by
your charmer... . J.R.L.: Doesn’t make a worth-
while yarn.... SAV.: The basket claimed it....
W.T; S;: Poor, even for a “literary greenhorn”....
M.M.D.: Next time, let Dad wallop him J.8.C.:
A lot of fuss about nothing... .A.T.J.: Badly con-
structed. .. .M.W.: Incredible plot, and the char-
acters are just names.... J.M.J.: May be a par. in
it... .H.G.W.: If you could write as well as your
seamen can swear you’d have editors chasing you.
. ...G.S.C.: Roughly done.... Pepton : But we can’t
swallow it j'lv.A., 1.11., France M.: Sorry to
shut you out. ...A.8.: A feeble farce. .. .E.J.S.:
Found it dreary.... Wollong: Lynch was State Mini-
ster of Works under Daglish, June to August, 1905,
and Commonwealth Minister of Works under Hughes,
November, 1910 to Feb., 1917 Hypericum:
Thanks; glad to hear from you... . Babinda: If-
reply-paid sporting wires are received, yes ; but
only information available to the general reader is
sent. Much as we like to oblige outbackers, it
wouldn’t be fair to discriminate.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.J.C.: Your abo. looks more like a nigger
minstrel... .C.E.8.: It is “over the fence’’... .C.D.:
If the girls are like the ones you draw, we’re not
going hiking. .. .E.T.: All out of proportion....
W.T.: Faint scratches. . . .T.A.A.: Improving
slightly; make every line count... .C.D.: Picture of
sad-eyed street sweeper returned.... M.L.: Would
like to know what the crumpled object on the left
is supposed to represent. . . .W.A.: Dreadful. . . -M.F.:
In the first place, a person with legs like that
would need a bath-chair.... E.N.A.: Poor, even for
seventeen. . . .P.F.: Sending Eric home. . . ..LILT.:
Australian cow-farmers don’t dress like English
army officers in the tropics... .N.N.: The furniture
wouldn’t accommodate any of those misshapen
heavyweights L.C.C.: Promising E.M.0.: Lang
cartoon has no point now that he is out of office.
. ...D.P.: Keep on, but do get. some life into your
ladies. . . .M.J.W.: Worthless scraps... .8.M.8.: Stale
joke. .. . A.H.: Everything about them is distorted.
. ...A.G.: The group on the grass look as if they
had dropped from an aeroplane. .. .M.G.8.: Kinder-
garten standard. .. .Swanson: All carelessly done....
J.S.: The girl seated is all out of proportion....
R.C.: Scratchy. .. .M.L.: Let her send some original
work L.G.D.: Lifeless M.J.: Get . someone to
teach you to draw before you start teaching Lyons
his ' job. .. .P.M.: Those two Scots drowned them-
selves years ago over that silly wager.... F.R.: Old
idea.. . . J.J.V.: Untidy.... T.R.: Traffic cops are not
that big. .. .A.G.: A smudgy effort. .. .F.W.8.: Didn’t
justify its trip across the Tasman.... G.W.: Why
have you made the husband a dwarf ?... .8.J.:
Just blots and scratches.... H. 8.: Nothing in The
Bulletin cupboard for the old lady... .R. 8.: Young
woman struggling with what appears to be a
python and firing off dull jests. . . .A.lt.M.: Kiddies
not badly drawn, but you flop when you come to
adults. .. .P.W.: Flappers look as if they were
clothed in galvanised-iron... . K.T.: They merely dis-
figure the landscape. .. .G.V.: Not rushing any of
them. . . .M.P.A.: Can’t understand any man wanting
to kiss a flapper who looks like that. . . .P.S. : Keep
0n....M.C.: Joke is as dead as the Lang plan.


sdf
sdf
■
",
\
■
Ml
£
.
Ll.
n
1
V ’
.
v:-;
'
II
;;
m
m
ds
Agent* far New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO.. LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 53—Xo. 2743.
September 7, 1032.
A TOUCH OF SPRING.
“Optimistic forecasts in the wool trade were realised yesterday, for the opening Sydney sales showed an advance of 20 per cent, over the closing basis of June last,
and o to 7½ per cent, over the opening rates of last season.— Daily payers,- August 30.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 289 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 88 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 86 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 4 s -1 6 months, 12c. 6d.;
t months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
S months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route": Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for joz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
GIVE YOUTH A CHANCE.
After thx-ee years of terrific taxation which
has had withering effects on industry, the
Government at Canberra once more faces
the position that annual expenditure will
greatly exceed annual revenue if it ‘is
allowed to go on at the previous twelve-
month’s rate. So Mr. Lyons and his col-
leagues are suspending payment of the gold
bonus, limiting the bounty on exported
wine to tlje amount paid in 1930-31, taking
another 5 p.c. off Pai’liamentary salaries and
another £8 p.a. off public-service pay, re-
stricting the maternity allowance to cases
in which total income does not exceed
£2OB p.a., and lowering old-age and invalid
pensions 2s. 6d. a week. The withdrawal
of the gold bonus, which was promised
for 10 years (the undei’taking being em-
bodied in an Act of Parliament), and which
has undoubtedly led to the reopening of
many mines, will reduce the Treasuiy’s out-
lay for the nine remaining months of 1932-33
by a mere £30,000; and it is doubtful
whether it is worth while incuri’ing so much
trouble to make a doubtful saving of so
little. But the saving on old-age and in-
valid pensions for the same period is
expected to amount to £1,100,000, and if, as
is promised, measures are taken to prevent
fraud and the shirking of family responsi-
bilities, it will be a good deal more. The
Government thought long before it decided
to reduce the rate, and had.to contend with
opposition in its own ranks. It is one of
those things which nobody likes doing but
which have to be done.
Old-age and invalid pensions were estab-
lished at the end of 1910, being given to
women at 60 years, permanently incapaci-
tated men at the same age, other men at
65 and chronic invalids at 16. The maxi-
mum rate was fixed at £26 p.a., and was
paid in all cases where “the pensioner’s
income, with pension,” did not “exceed £52
p.a.”; and at £26 p.a. it remained till Sep-
tember, 1916. Then the rate was raised to
£32 10s. p.a. and the permissible income to
£5B 10s.; and there were more additions in
1919, 1923 and 1925. bi’inging the maximum
pension, from October of that year, to £52
p.a. and the maximum income allowable to
£B4 10s. p.a. From 1925 dates the tre-
mendous increase in the number of pen-
sioners and the annual bill which forced
even the Scullidore Government to recog-
nise that Australia was supplying too much
of a good thing. In 1919 (not reckoning in
pei’sons maintained in institutions or cost of
administration) there were 127,968 pension-
ers who received £3.880 865. In 1930 there
were 218,500 pensioners who received
£10,633,979. During the year to June 30,
1931, the number of pensioners jumped to
240,520 and the expenditure to £11.710953.
Last year the maximum rate was reduced to
£45 10s. p.a.; nevertheless, so many more
pensions were applied for and granted that
the expenditure was neai’ly half a million
more than in the first depression year.
Practically half the old people in Australia
are getting the pension, and it is impossible
to believe that they all need it. Until
the Commonwealth imposed a special tax
of 2s. in the £ of property income (carrying
its income tax to a maximum of 9s. 6d. in
the £), it took the entire proceeds of the
income tax to pay old-age and invalid pen-
sions, leaving nothing for the war pensioners
—of whom, at June 30, 1931. there were
283,322. In 1920-21 war pensions cost
£2,315,403 more than old-age and invalid
pensions. In 1930-31 they cost £3,714,773
less.
Nearly all the old-age and invalid pen-
sioners are paid at the highest rate. The
Government is bringing this rate back to
what it was in 1920; and 15s. a week will
buy more now than it would then. But
when the Pi’ime Minister announced its
mild intentions he was interrupted from the
Lang corner with cries of “Robbex-y!”
“Scandalous!” and “A crime!” one tribune
adding “You ought to be shot dead!”
These sickening humbugs cheered when
their hero thundered against the induction
of N.S.W. Parliamentaxy salaries and chai’-
actei-ised the slump as “a Nationalist fake.”
They cheered, too, when he gave a single
man on the dole the equivalent of a miser-
able ss. lOd. a week, and a young mar-
ried couple the equivalent of 9s. a week.
The depression has spared no group, but
it has been harder on the young than on
the old. For tens of thousands of young
people it has been a tragedy of thwarted
ambitions, of short commons, of wandering
heartsick from place to place in search of
work which cannot be got. And what hope
is there for the great majority unless indus-
tiy is put in the way of employing or re-
employing them by being relieved of the
burdens—particulai’ly the burden of a
bloated establishment and impossibly costly
social services—which are crushing the life
out of it? Australia has cared for its old
people and will go on caring for them.
Even at 15s. a week it will be doing far
more in this field than any other country
is trying to do. But it must be mindful
of the rights of the young.
A PLAN FOR EMPLOYING THE UN-
EMPLOYED.
The other day two illuminating letters
reached The Bulletin office by the same
ixxail. One sought the help of the Service
Department. The writer had long been
out of work, but had got the loan of a
boat and fishing tackle, had discovei*ed that
he could catch more than he and his family
could consume and now wanted to ex-
change what he had too much of with a
vegetable-grower, an egg-raiser and othei-s
who had too much of what they pi’oduced.
The other correspondent said he had been
a reader of The Bulletin for many years
but was now unable to buy it regularly;
could he still have his Bulletin and under-
take to work it out in some way?—and he
specified various ways in which he thought
he could do it.
Now, we have 300,000 people in Aus-
tralia who are practically all capable of
doing something which others of them
want done. Here is a baker in need of
boots, and here an unemployed bootmaker
in need of bi-ead; here are woollen mills
unable to get oi-ders and hundreds of opera-
tives idle, and here are tens of thousands
of people short of woollen clothing; here
is a tailor idle and there a threadbare suit;
here is a citrus orchard going to wreck
because the owner cannot afford to buy a
plough, and here are implement-makers
who cannot buy fruit because they are out
of a job. If these people were more pri-
mitive they would do what The Bulletin’s
two correspondents have just proposed—go
in for barter. Well, why not make that a
basis of reconstruction? It is really at
the bottom of the proposal which this
paper has made again and again, and which,
as elaborated by Professor Milhaud, of
Geneva, has lately been once or twice re-
ferred to.
1 ho trouble with most forms of barter
is that the producer has to get matei-ials;
and generally he cannot afford to buy
them. Also, when lie has produced his
goods, he finds it hard to dispose of them
in exchange for things he needs; and the
people who might buy his goods have not
the money, being themselves unemployed,
or left with goods which they cannot sell.
That seems to point to two things as
iiecessary: (1) the unemployed must be
financed to purchase material, etc.; (2)
when goods are produced, an equal amount
of purchasing power must somehow be
created. Pi-ofessor Milhaud has drawn up
a plan by which he believes and The
Bulletin believes this can be done.
First, what the Professor calls a National
Office for the Encouragement of Production
would be established by the Government—
in our case it would have to be the Federal
Government—and this office would issue
credit certificates against actual extra pro-
duction. That is to say, against production in
excess of recent production. These certifi-
cates would be issued by the employer to the
supplementary employees and to the pro-
viders of raw materials. Say the employer
was a boot manufacturer, who engaged 50
extra hands. They would be paid in cer-
tificates and so would the leather merchant,
etc. The boots they produced would be
sold to a shop which would also be issued
with certificates to cover rent, profit and
other exes. The boots as turned out of the
factory would have cost, say, £300; and pur-
chasing certificates for that amount would
have been issued through the employer to
the operatives, the leather merchant and
the owner himself (for profit, overhead,
etc.). Thus there would be £3OO of goods
on the mai’ket and £3OO of purchasing cei-
tificates. But to the £3OO would be added,
say, 33A p.c. to represent the bootshop
costs, making the sale price of the boots
£400; and £lOO of cei-tificates would be
issued to the bootseller. There would thus
be always exactly the same amount of
purchasing power issued as goods produced
and for sale. But the 50 boot-operatives
would not want £4OO-worth of boots. They
would want clothes or bread or meat or
medicine ; and they would get those things
with their purchasing certificates at shops
which had acquired and stocked them in
the same way as the bootseller had acquired
and stocked the boots. And the people
who had been paid in purchasing cei’tificates
to make bi’ead or build clothes or grow
fruit and vegetables would hand in the notes
in purchase of boots; and when the boot-
vendor had got £3OO worth he would hand
them to the boot factoiy, which would pass
them back to the issuing authority, and
that transaction would be complete.
Two things in particular have to be
observed: (1) No purchasing cei’tificates
would be issued except against goods actu-
ally'produced; (2) when goods were made
and put on the shelves for sale, purchasing
power just sufficient to lift them would be
simultaneously issued. Therefore, if the
purchasing certificates were used only to
purchase the goods against whose produc-
tion and sale they were issued, it would
not be possible for any goods to be left
unsold. And it might not matter a great
deal to the scheme whether a vendor sold
one line on his shelves or another. The
scheme, in short, is one of barter simpli-
fied and financed. Instead of the boot-
maker carting around his pair of boots and
looking for somebody who will take them
in exchange for bread, he would carry
around a bundle of notes which could be
exchanged for bread and vegetables and a
shirt at various shops which are saving
the baker and the gardener and the shirt-
maker from carrying around their goods.
A question arises as to the extent to
which the scheme could be employed. It
is plain that it could be used without any
danger whatever in the exchange of material
objects. The boots must be produced be-
fore the notes are issued against them. With
those notes a man might bxxy bi’ead, meat
or clothes; but could he pay his rent?
Could he buy a haircut? The hairdresser
who engages an additional man and pays
him with purchasing certificates would, of
course, be responsible for their value; they
are really a credit which he has got from
the National Office. He would thei’efore
not engage more supplementary labor and
hold himself responsible for more credit
than he could repay through the notes
coming in to him. And the issuing office
would see that he got no more credit than
he could take care of. There is no reason
why the landlord should not come into the
scheme, too. Against the use of his pre-
mises, notes could be issued just as they
wei’e issued to the bootseller for the use
of his premises. In other woi’ds, pui’chas-
ing notes could be issued to him equal to
the amount of the notes paid him by his
tenant. With these latter he could repay
the credit issued to him; with his own
credit he could purchase goods, just as his
tenant was entitled to do. No doubt it
would simplify matters if the tenant passed
his notes on to the landlord and allowed the
latter to buy goods or services with them.
It would, howevei - , be better, if possible,
to make the notes exchangeable only fox-
goods or services produced or x-endered by
people paying with purchasing notes. In
any case, the notes would be valid only
for a limited period. This would compel
quick purchase of goods, and quick return
and cancellation of xxotes.
Anyhow, we ought to be doing something.
It is ridiculous that, in a counti-y like
Australia, hundreds of thousands of people
should be idle on the one side and have
their wants unsatisfied on the other. We
need not worry about a market; these
people would constitute their own market.
If there is any better plan available for
giving the unemployed producer a chance
to be a consumer, so that the xxnemployed
producer can be employed, by all means
adopt it. It is wicked cruelty not to try
something.
NATIONALISED BEER.
A committee of the Federal Labor pai’ty
has been at work on “a new policy for the
nationalisation of banking,” and a report
has been prepared by the committee “co-
operating with the late Treasurer, Mr.
Theodore.” The scheme provides for the
compulsory acquisition of all private banks,
with compensation to shai’eholders—pay-
able, of course, in papei’—and conversion of
the banks into one Commonwealth-owned
service.
Well, for The Bulletin’s part, it would
like to see this tried on some comparatively
small thing first—say beer. A scheme might
be drawn up providing for the acquisition
of all breweries and pubs, and their conver-
sion into a Commonwealth-owned and -run
service. This would mean one brew of
beer for the entire continent and Tasmania.
There would be no competition. There
would be no choice of beer. If a man
didn’t like the Commonwealth brew he
could go without beer altogether. It would
be served by an army of civil servants,
who would also have the right to decide
whether a man should have beer, and, if
any, how much and when. If the public
servant in charge of the Commonwealth
beer in, say, Bourke thought that old Tom
Smith was entitled to half a pint a week
and no more, half a pint and no more it
would have to be: there would be no other
pub for Tom to appeal to. If the inhabi-
tants of Booligal voted against the Gov-
ernment at a general election and it re-
mained in office, it might shut up the pub
at Booligal on the ground that it wasn’t
paying and that there was a pub at Hay;
on the other hand, if Milparinka gave a
solid vote for the Government, it might
give Milparinka three years’ ci-edit for
its beer, and throw victuals in free.
Certainly it would be interesting to see
how the experiment with the beer panned
out before proceeding with the banks. If
nationalised beer wasn’t a success, we
might take it as a pretty fair sign that
nationalised banking wouldn’t be either.
IS OUR EDUCATION SYSTEM BEST?
Teachers from other countries often speak
disparagingly of the centralised organisation
of our education systems. They sneer at
the rigid courses of study and the absence
of local control. They are particularly
critical of the meagre equipment to be
found in even our leading city schools. This
compares very unfavorably with the excel-
lent teaching aids provided by the London
County Council, or with the auditorium,
workshops, fine library, swimming pools, pic-
ture-hall, wireless-sets, etc., of many a pala-
tial school in America.
In U.S.A. it is not uncommon to find a
city school the cost of which runs into
several millions of dollars. In Victoria our
most expensive State school is the Mel-
bourne High School for boys, erected and
equipped at a cost of half a million dollars
(£100,000). Such fine institutions are evid-
ence of the fact that Americans believe in
education as something worth paying for.
It must be remembered, however, that their
State schools a.re attended by the children
of all sections of society; the democratic
American citizen looks with some disfavor
upon the private school. Hence the magni-
ficent building, often set in ducal grounds,
with accommodation for some 2000 pupils,
who pay no fees during the whole of their
secondary-school course.
Now for the other side of the picture! A
visitor from Australia, where there are prac-
tically no illiterates, is astonished at the
amount of illiteracy in America. One ex-
planation of this is that, in the past, America
has been the melting-pot for migrants from
all the nations of Europe. Add to this that
its negro population is equal to twice the
total population of Australia. Further,
under a decentralised system, the cities,
with their enormous rate-rolls, are able to
squander millions on education (their “dis-
trict superintendents” often draw £6OOO a
year), while the sparsely settled country dis-
trict, with low returns from rates, has fre-
quently to suffer the disability of very poor
facilities for schooling. These rural schools,
in many cases, are open for only six to
eight months in the year. They are poorly
equipped, and their teachers are often of low
qualifications consequent upon the miser-
able pittance offered. The pupils are, in
such cases, at least a year behind their
more fortunate fellows of the cities.
Another grave objection to the American
system is that the district superintendents,
with their princely salaries, are in many
cases elected by popular vote. Further, the
teacher is often at the mercy of a narrow-
ininded section of the community. Austra-
lian citizens are sufficiently familiar with
the possibilities for graft in U.S.A. to be
thankful that the welfare of their children
is under more capable and less precarious
management.
That educationists in many American
States are alive to the disabilities under
which rural communities are laboring may
be gathered from the fact that some of the
States provide grants to rural communities;
but these are, in most cases, quite inade-
quate for the purpose. The plan, however,
is being extended in the more advanced
States, to provide efficient education under
trained teachers for between 30 and 40 weeks
in the year. There is even a tendency, in
some States, to shoulder the whole burden
of a. suitable course of study (minimum re-
quirement) so that no child of a rural dis-
trict will suffer because the residents are
too poor or too short-sighted to provide
adequate educational facilities.
In Victoria (as in the other Australian
States) local committees and mothers’ clubs
render great assistance by raising funds to
provide articles of equipment which are not
supplied by the Education Department.
Although the amount spent on education
is only £2 per head of population (England
spends five times as much), there is more
likely to be a decrease than an increase in
the amount available for equipment. School
committees alone, since their inception, have
provided facilities and equipment valued at
a quarter of a million pounds. It is the
proud boast of Victorian educationists that
the pupil of the smallest rural school (per-
haps only 10 or 12 children) obtains an
education equal in essentials to that of the
city boy or girl; that he sits for a qualify-
ing examination or a merit certificate of the
same standard; and that he has just as good
a chance of winning a scholarship to take
him on to secondary school and university.
Advance in the future will probably be
along the line of increased local control,
especially in the use of funds raised by
school committees and mothers’ clubs. The
central administration is not likely to sur-
render the right to prescribe courses of
study; but it is quite probable that such
coui - ses will be made more elastic, and that
teachei’s will be encouraged to suggest adap-
tations in accordance with district interests.
There has been for many years far more
freedom of adjustment than even the most
advanced schoolmaster has ventured to use.
The average teacher, no less than his fellow
citizens in other walks of life, tends to work
himself into a groove and to lose the driv-
ing force of initiative. We shall some day
give effect to the guiding principle of Aris-
totle, “Strive to seek the Mean,” by retain-
ing the benefits of centralisation while, at
the same time, stimulating parents to extra
enthusiasm and helpfulnes, by granting a
greater measure of local control.
A. J. LAW.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The National Budget.
On the figures put before the House last
week the Federal Government estimates a
deficit this year of £2,781,000; but if hoped-
for savings of £1,479,000 are made, the figure
will be reduced to £1,302,000. This, however,
is on the assumption that once again the
charges on the war debt due to the British
Government will not be collected; if they
lire collected another £4,912,000 will have
to be added to the total.
The actual expenditure last year was
£70.218.207; the estimated expenditure this
year is £67,287,622, after allowing for the
hoped-for savings mentioned above. The
proposed reduction of the maximum old-age
or invalid pension from 17s. 6d. to 15s. per
week will save £1,100,000; yet so rapidly
are applications for these grants coming in
that actually only £625,000 less will be paid
out than was the case last year. Of other
proposed savings the most material come
from a fall of £8 p.a. in all Federal public-
service salaries and wages due to the re-
duced cost of living. There is no suggestion
of a searching review of the public service
with the intention of dispensing with un-
necessary employees. Yet there is con-
vincing evidence that the service is shame-
fully overmanned. The reduced expenditure
for the year, as we have seen, is estimated
at 67 millions, which is just about the
figure reached in 1924-25, after the mad boom
in spending had been well launched. Going
back to the year before the war (1913-14)
it was only 15 millions. All war and repat-
riation services are to cost 19 millions
this year, so that, apart from those special
outgoings, our expenditure has just doubled
since the year before the war. And yet we
kre told that the outgoings have been cut
to the lowest possible point. They may
have been cut to the lowest possible point
so far as the politician is concerned; so far
as the taxpayer is. concerned the cutting has
hardly begun.
No general remission of taxes is an-
nounced ; but the clamor of the Country
party has had its effect, and wherever
a concession could be made to the primary
industries it has been made, even though
secondary industries must suffer in conse-
quence. The circumstances, however, make
it impossible to quarrel very violently with
the Government. We are dependent on
the primary industries as we never were
before; and there is no question whatever
that the rural industries are suffering from
a shrinkage in value of the products which
they have to sell quite out of harmony with
the fall in the value of the commodities
which they have to buy. The N.S.W. Statis-
tician in his report for August showed that,
while the price of wool (at that date) was
still six points under the average for 1911, and
wheat 14 points under, non-rural commodi-
ties were 78 points over the 1911 average.
At the same time this supremely important
fact must never be lost sight of. Not all
the activity of the primary producers can
save us from going broke as a nation. In
1925-26 our exports reached no less than
148 millions—double what they are to-day
—yet in that year we went 40 millions to
the bad. It is not bulk of exports that mat-
ters; it is surplus of exports over imports.
And we can, as all past experience has
shown, much more surely get a surplus by
severely limiting our imports than by trust-
ing to the maintenance of exports.
«
“The Annals Of a Country Doctor.”
J. A. J. Hunter, M.H.R., comes to the
defence of his leader, Dr. Earle Page:—
In reply to “The Annals of a Country
Doctor" (31/8/’32). no dliticism that can
be levelled at Dr. Page can take from him
the credit for having left the following
monuments: —
1. In the local sphere—
The Nymboida hydro-electric scheme,
the best-run local-government venture in
Australia, which has revolutionised pro-
duction and social life on the Clarence
River, and which has, by its activity,
made the district feel the depression least.
2. In the national sphere—
(a) The National Debt Sinking Fund,
which has wiped off £60,000,000 of War
Debt.
(5) The Loan Council, which enabled
Australia to act as a single national unit
in the crisis, which for the first time
secured an orderly curtailment of borrow-
ing, and which disciplined N.S.W. when
it attempted to smash Australian credit.
(c) A remodelled Commonwealth Bank,
with a representative Board of Directors,
with control of the note issue and power
to control inflation, independent of politi-
cal control.
(d) The Rural Credits Branch of the
Commonwealth Bank, which has advanced
£60,000,000 to primary industries since
he created it, representing the only real
assistance the producers have had in this
depression.
To blame Page for the £220,000,000 in-
crease in Australian debt is a charge which
cannot be sustained, as £207,000,000 of this
money was borrowed by State Governments
over which the Commonwealth had no con-
trol. What Page did do, however, was to
manage his debt in such a way that the tax-
ation necessary to meet the interest thereon
decreased by £BOO.OOO, while the taxation
necessary to pay State debts increased by
something approximating £6,000,000.
With regard to the charge that Page
increased imports and therefore the total
revenue from increased imports, it is
obvious that this could not have been done
by Page, but by commercial-buying opera-
tions of private enterprise. And, anyhow,
£100,000,000 of those increased imports rep-
resented the purchase of new machinery
abroad to equip Australian industry, which
was expanding in a period during which
Page’s critics allege the tariff was ineffective
so far as secondary industries were con-
cerned.
If Page is to be blamed for the increase
in imports and Customs revenue, then give
him the credit for the greater exports which
bought those imports and have sustained
us in the crisis, while giving others likewise
the blame for the curtailment of purchases
of new and up-to-date equipment for Aus-
tralian factories'.
You could not pay Page a greater compli-
ment than by alleging that everything that
was done by the Bruce-Page Government
was due to Page. He must, indeed, have
been a powerful figure to drag the whole
Nationalist party at his heels for six years,
despite the undoubted influence of vested
interests which challenged him at every
move.
One has only to read the country news-
papers to know that Page is not alone. —
that the farmers are wholeheartedly with
him.
And in reply:—
When the next gentleman is charged with
wife-beating, Mr. Hunter will tell the jury
that it ought to forget the wounds and the
bruises, and remember only the 20-guinea
hats and the 100-guinea sealskin coats the
gentleman bought for the lady. It is quite
true Dr. Page established the Sinking Fund
to reduce the war debt. He had to do some-
thing to get rid of the money. In his first
year his revenue was 64 millions; in the
year he went out it was £102,571,103. In
his first year he took 49 millions in taxa-
tion ; within three years it was 59 millions,
plus half the profit of the note issue, which
passed a million. During this period ex-
penditure ought to have been cut down hard:
if Dr. Page didn’t see a crash coming it is
proof in itself he was quite unfit for the
job. Actually he hastened the crash and
added enormously to our difficulties by an orgy
of spending. In his own small spending
department the outgoings in the year before
he arrived were under seven millions; in his
last year they were over millions.
Although we were on the edge of the preci-
pice—although we were by this time actu-
ally borrowing to pay our interest —he lifted
old-age and invalid pensions from £5,337,000
in 1922-23 to £9,991,000 in 1928-29. To-
day Latham and Lyons are finding the re-
straint of that particular piece of extrava-
gance one of their most difficult jobs. As
Treasurer, Page permitted a ruinous in-
crease of expenditure everywhere—except
on Defence. Trade and Customs, which had
cost £889,121 in 1921-22, reached £2,002,145
in 1927-28. A new department was created
in 1924-25, and called Markets and Trans-
port. In 1928-29 this frill alone cost
£613,610. Notwithstanding the vast increase
in taxation, Dr. Page actually wound up this
period of phenomenal prices with a deficit
of £4,987,718; and his successors had to
face the crash with that handicap. For a
Treasurer who could do that there can be
no excuse whatever.
It is true that most of the huge debt
added to Australia’s burden in Page’s day
was State debt. But Page made it possible.
In the six years 1923-29 Australian imports
were 905 millions, exports were only 863 mil-
lions. As the exports fell 42 millions short
of paying even for the imports, it was abso-
lutely necessary for somebody to borrow the
42 millions plus the whole of the interest
on the overseas debt. Dr. Page, his apolo-
gists say, couldn’t help it. But his succes-
sors had to help it—and did.
♦
The High Cost of Distribution.
The Tariff Board has been told that the
retail buyer sometimes pays double the
manufacturer’s price. “It is nearly time,”
said the chairman, “that Australia woke up
to the high cost of distribution; and it is
nearly time somebody led the way.” But
Australia has long been aware of the
high cost of distribution: where it has
failed is in courage to do the things neces-
sary.
To answer the question “What are those
things necessary?” we must first know what
are the causes of the high costs. Look first
at the population of our capital cities;
contrast our figures with those of other
countries:—
PERCENTAGE ON TOTAL OF STATE.
Sydney .. . . 50.13 I London .. .. 11.01
Melbourne . . 56.66 [ Paris .. .. 7.05
Brisbane . . 33.04 Berlin . . . • 6.37
Adelaide . . 55.73 | Rome . . .. 2.25
Perth . . . . 48.69 ] Stockholm . . 7.94
Our urban population is not greater than
that of other countries; but, instead of being
in many towns, it is crowded into a single
city in each State, and in every case that
city is on the seaboard. Adelaide has nearly
56 p.c. of the population of S. Australia. If
it were a large manufacturing centre this
would be intelligible; but, apart from its
motor-body works, Adelaide has no national
industries whatever. In N. S. Wales the
position is in one respect worse. Adelaide
could feed itself on what it can grow within
125 miles; Sydney would starve if it had
to try to do it. Most of the country—7s
per cent., at least—within 125 miles is little
better than rough scenery. Sydney can grow
a fair proportion of its own citrus and stone
fruit; it can grow most of its milk and per-
haps a fourth of its butter. The balance,
including all its wheat and 90 per cent, of
its meat, must be hauled great distances.
The bloating and glorification of the
cities reacts on the country towns, most ot
which are consequently drab and lifeless.
The motor-car, the telephone and the
wireless have made vast changes in the
life of the man and woman on the land;
but there is still a great deal more to be
done before the country town will have the
appeal which it must make before we can
hope for a saner distribution of our people.
And when they have been driven out of
the country, sometimes by the high prices
of land (and that is a matter which must
be dealt with also), there has been very
little for young Australians to do. Until
quite lately we had few manufactures; and
even now the efforts to establish them are
frowned on by the people who have so
much to gain from them. In consequence
the young men from the country have
drifted or been pushed into the over-
crowded public service, or have taken jobs
in offices and shops; if they have been a
little older and have had a few pounds,
they have set up in some small business
for themselves—the suburbs of every city
hold thousands of these. There are at the
very least 13,000 superfluous shops in each
of the two larger Australian cities. Assum-
ing that these cost on an average only £6
a week—for labor, rent, everything—the
producers, primary and secondary, of two
States have eight millions a year added to
their burdens without any return. And there
is probably half as much wasted in super-
fluous “agencies.”
It is plain, then, that reduction of costs
of distribution is not going to be an easy
or a quick business. Many steps will have
to be taken; and all will be resisted, some
passively, some actively. However, as the
chairman of the Tariff Board suggests, it is
nearly time somebody gave a lead ; so The
Bulletin suggests a few matters which
should have attention: —
(1) Population must be better distributed. This
means a steady encouragement of settlement in
country towns. Every country town ought to have
its progress association. “Local patriotism” should
be fostered. The surest way to get towns to grow
is to make them the capitals of States. That means
subdivision.
(2) Manufactures must be encouraged. The
young population which is not attracted to the
land must be offered something besides a job on
the trams or shop and office work.
(3) The community must rally to the support of
Governments which honestly strive to cut .down
public expenditure. The overloading of the public
service is one of the prime causes of the excessive
cost of distribution.
(4) There must be more co-operation and organi-
sation among producers. If they do not carry this
out themselves, boards will be appointed to take the
marketing out of their hand?. That is the beginning
of sovietism. Also it is often the beginning of
mismanagement and waste.
(5) The State should not encourage lads to go
after white-collar jobs; and the snobbery that puts
shop assistant or bank clerk, lawyer or journalist,
before a craftsman, no matter how skilled, ought
to be suppressed. This may mean some changes in
popular education; these High Schools have a lot
to answer for.
(6 and finally) Because The Bulletin sells adver-
tising space itself it has some compunction about
mentioning that Australian manufacturers, with a
few exceptions, are the world’s poorest advertisers.
Mostly they give the retailer of their goods no help
in selling, with the result that their' goods move off
slowly, and the percentage added for distribution
has to' be absurdly high in consequence.
■■■.•' ■• +
A National Drift.
Further bitter, complaints about packing
reached Australia last month from overseas
—bitter because it was believed there had
been worse than carelessness in some
cases; there had been flagrant dishonesty.
Not only had we unloaded apples on the
London market without discretion, but
many cases were “mere rubbish.” In ordi-
nary circumstances this would be bad; it
is worse now because the purchasing public
is more discriminating than usual, and left
the goods on the merchants’ hands. Gener-
ally Covent Garden would have been able
to look after itself by refusing to take de-
livery ; this season, on account of chaotic
exchange, large purchases have been made
“against documents” —that is, without in-
spection—and the buyers who took a chance
on Australia’s honesty and careful handling
feelthat they have been taken down. “At
the moment,” one Australian correspondent
writes to The Bulletin from London, “our
name’stands lower in the trade than it has
done for years.” A second ■ complaint is
about our flour; there seems to be no ques-
tion that shipments have been badly
handled, and the flour has arrived damp.
And our wool has not escaped, either: not
only are there complaints from both Japan
and the Continent of bad classing, but
“rubbish” has been introduced here also—
to the disadvantage of the buyer, who, in
the case of Japan at any rate, declares
itself drawn more and more away from the
Australian market and towards S’Africa:
which is exactly what the London fruit
merchants also say.
It is all very unfortunate, coming at a
moment when prices are so low and com-
petition among producers so keen, and when
we so badly need the money. No doubt, so
far as the wool-classing especially is con-
cerned, we can make excuses for ourselves:
we are already pleading that the price is
so low that we cannot afford to engage
expert help. It is a frail excuse to cover
that casualness which sometimes we can
find amusing in the national character, but
is no good when we take it into a foreign
market. „
As for the “worse than carelessness
with which we are charged—“flagrant dis-
honesty,” it has been called —we shall have
to watch ourselves carefully. There is
overwhelming evidence of a slackening ot
moral tone in this community. Things
which would have shocked us a few years
ago are being accepted as a matter of
course so long as they bring in some money.
To get office our politicians make promises
which they know well they cannot fulfil.
To keep office they have no compunction
about repudiating debts, and scoff at the
“sanctity” of the written contract. One
State hands its greatest savings bank build-
ing over to a State lottery, and draws as
many as three of these gambles in one
week. We talk of currency inflation as
though it were an ordinary business deal,
and push aside from us the suggestion that
it and all its relations are merely plans
for enriching some people by robbing others,
It is a dangerous drift; if it is not checked
nobody can tell where it will carry us.
'-j ./\ A
Party Government.
The reason why party politics have failed
to solve the economic problem is this. If
what' we should eat were a political ques-
tion the business would be conducted in
the following fashion. There would be a
Meat party, which held that mutton, beef,
pork and veal were the only suitable and
honorable diet for a great, self-respecting
and progressive Christian nation. There
would be a Vegetarian party, satisfied that
a regimen exclusively composed of kohlrabi,
cabbage, spinach, apples and onions would
save the people. There would be a small
Vegetarian-Meat party which believed that
a combination of both diets was the ideal
menu, but they would disagree about the
relative amounts of meat and vegetables
and would sometimes swing towards beef
and sometimes towards apples; in any case,
they being more reasonable than the others,
very few people would listen to them, since
their platform would not have enough
passion and prejudice in it to attract much
attention, so their numbers would be in-
considerable. Then there would be a few
Independents who believed in nuts, or
potatoes or fish or scrambled eggs, or that
food should be eaten raw, or that we
shouldn’t eat at all but only drink; but
they would be valued merely by a few fan-
atics for their quaintness. They would dress
in a peculiar fashion to give themselves
importance.
Newspapers would be either vegetarian
or carnivorous in their policies. The vege-
tarian papers would get advertisements from
fruiterers and market gardeners, arid the
carnivorous papers would live by adver-
tisements from stock and station agents,
butchers, meat-canners and cattle kings.
The Independents wouldn’t have any news-
papers because there wouldn’t be any money
in it. Archbishops would exhort the nation
to sacrifice its taste for meat in preference
to lettuce, or vice versa, in accordance
with Christian principles, and quote Holy
Writ in support of either contention. Elec-
tions would be fought over the great, funda-
mental, national issue of whether the
people should eat meat or vegetables ex-
clusively.
When a Meat Government supplanted a
Vegetable Government, laws would be
passed making vegetables almost unobtain-
able, the fruitgrowers and market gardeners
would be ruined and have to be supported
by the State or starve, and the meat kings
would flourish and start investing their
profits in moving-picture palaces. The
nation would begin to suffer from protein
poisoning through eating too much meat, so
the Government would call in experts to
advise it, who, being paid by the. State,
would give it the sort of advice that agreed
with its policy, such as that, more meat
ought to be eaten or that it ought to be
served raw or that it should be prepared
only by cooks licensed by the Govern-
ment.
When the protein poisoning got so bad
that the people began to feel that any
Government would be better than the pre-
sent one, there would be a titanic general
election, in which some of the leading Meat
politicians would go over to the Vegetarians,
and a Vegetarian Government would be
elected with a tremendous majority and
a clear mandate from the country. The
Vegetarian Government would then pro-
ceed to make meat-eating difficult it not
illegal, and the butchers and meat kings
would be ruined. If the Centre or Moder-
ate party had enough, votes it would alter-
nately support one party and the other,
and there would be no progress in either
direction and abuses would flourish. lhe
papers would then say that the trouble was
due to there being not enough Democracy
or too much of it. and the franchise wpuld
be extended to children in aims and the
inmates of lunatic asylums.
A few people would say that there was
a scientific diet that would suit most
stomachs and that there was enough expert
knowledge on the subject to devise it; but
they wouldn’t be listened to because they
would be poor orators and would appeal to
re&son ; so they would bp frozen 1o denth
with the hearty approval of both meat-
eaters and vegetarians.
— f ♦-
A National Song.
We have been a Commonwealth for 30-odd
years, and still we haven t a national song.
Different States sing different compositions
in their schools; and every attempt hitherto
made to bring all into harmony has failed,
probably because none of the compositions
in use or available has had very striking
merit. As an announcement on to-day’s
Red Page sets out, the Acting-Director of
Education in Victoria proposes that the
matter shall be again approached; and he
has approved of a suggestion that an eftoil
should be made to add to the list of pos-
sible competitors. With that end viom
The Bulletin is offering prizes of £4U tor
the words only of a suitable song the
entries to be in by November 16. There
probably never was a time when so many
Australians were writing verse; hence them
is every reason to expect a very large 10-
sponse to the invitation. And it is not
too much to hope that out of the entues
which The Bulletin and its colleague Ihe
Woman’s Mirror” will be able to attract,
something may be chosen worthy of a
great purpose.


“Never let smoking
give you a sore throat”
CRAVEN “A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 (or 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
.am
POLITICAL
POINTS
Things have been coming a bit more the
way of the man on the land these last few
days. The Sydney wool sales opened 20 p.c.
better than the last sales did; wheat is
firmer; good rains have fallen over most
of the wheat areas of Australia (and the
early September rains are tremendously
important) ; and the only people the Budget
did anything for are the primary producers
—practically all the things the farmer needs
are exempted from sales tax and primage,
and the Customs tariff has been whittled
away in his supposed interests. On top
of all that there comes for most farmers a
further reduction of interest; and the lower-
ing of the State basic wage in N. S. Wales
has enabled the B. H. Prop, to announce a
drop in the price of its iron and steel
products, and Lysaghts and Rylands to do
the same regarding fence and other wires,
barbed wire and wire-netting.
The Federal Treasurer in his Budget speech
said that ex-Justice Ferguson had under-
taken to examine both Federal and State
taxation laws “with a view to simplification
and standardisation.” That, of course,
sounds very good; but nothing has been
done with similar reports already made.
The Commissioners of Taxation tw 0 or
three years ago agreed, upon a plan for
amending the system under which a N. S.
Wales or Vic. manufacturer may be required
to pay income tax on the same profits in
his home State and in Queensland. Though
the Commissioners were apparently agreed
that this was an iniquity, Treasurers have
done not a thing to end the robbery.
Before the Wool Committee the land tax
is being handed much of the blame for the
bad way the pastoral industry is in. Yet
the land tax was good in its conception,
and it was honestly believed it was going
to reduce the costs of wool-growing, by keep-
ing down land prices. But the absurd level
to which land is forced is .still the industry’s
greatest curse. And not the wool industry
only. The other day, bad times and all,
river flats at Bega, on the N.S.W. South
Coast, brought £6O an acre. There is a lot
of talk about pegging exchange. The farm
industry in Australia will always be liable
to be in a bad way until a way is found
to peg land values.
“The N.S.W. Cabinet has decided to recapitalise
the State railways. The present capital of about
£140,000,000 is to be reduced by between
£20,000,000 and £30,000,000, lessening the interest
bill by between £1,000,000 and £1,500,000
annually.”
“I’m going to ease things a lot for you.
Hold on while I shift the weight further
down your back.”
After an adjournment of eight weeks Vic.
Parliament is wrestling with the problem of
reducing the prospective deficit from
£1,950,000 to £900,000. Curtailment of ser-
vices, _ imposition of fees for secondary
schooling, and cuts in various directions
(though .salaries are not to be touched any
more), are forecast. Argyle declares that
the Ministry will persist with the unpleasant
work and take the consequences.
Though preference to unionists is being
restored in Queensland as fast as union
secretaries can flock into the Industrial
Court, Arbitrator Ferry has tempered the
wind to the out-of-work by providing in
the new preference clause that he need not
be “financial” when engaged. This will
deprive the union boss of a cruel weapon
unless he can devise a substitute.
The existence of the League covenant, the
Kellogg pact and other documents, printed
on enduring parchment, has not altered
international procedure in such matters as
the annexation of foreign countries—Man-
churia, for example. There was a palace
revolution in Manchuria (“Manchukuo”
now), and the new Government proceeded
to raise a loan in Japan and arrange to be
defended by it. Japanese goods are float-
ing into the country duty free (all
other foreigu goods are dutiable) ; there are
preferential rates for Japanese shippers on
the railways ; Japanese banks, insurance cos.,
“No-, honorable European , he 'is not my
child. I merely take a fatherly interest
in. hecm.”
traders and industrialists have been granted
monopolies, and the waterfroht in Harbin
has been handed to a Japanese co. Subject
to these qualifications, however, the
ernment stands four-square for the open-
door policy, as safeguarded in numerous
treaties.
Percy Pease, Forgan Smith’s deputy, made
a poor fist of his first bill, which aims at
placing forestry and prickly-pear land under
the control of the Land Administration
Board. The inclusion of forestry is a very
questionable improvement, but this did not
excite the Opposition so much as a clause
depriving the members of the Prickly-pear
Commission and the Forestry Board of their
legal right to compensation for being re-
tired. The Prickly-pear Commission was
appointed till 1934; the Forestry Board till
1937. Forgan Smith and his tiny majority
were obviously nervy in the face of the
storm of protest raised, and no one w r as
surprised when, next day, a humbled Minister
announced that the offending clause had been
cut out.
The N.S.W. Government Statist takes 1911
figures as his basis (=100), and in his
August report showed that in Sydney for the
preceding month wool was 96, wheat 84 and
nou-rural products 178. Which means that
of the goods he has to buy the farmer is
getting less for two bushels of wheat than
lie got for one in 1911. But he is quite
wrong in assuming that he is a special
.sufferer. His brother in the U.S.A. is rather
worse off: in lowa and other States of the
“Middle West” he has proclaimed a “farmers’
holiday,” and is picketing all roads leading
into the towns in order to stop traffic in
farm products with the object of forcing
up prices. Things have got beyond the local
authorities in some places, and the National
Guard may have to be called in.
At Broken Hill, where a long-standing
agreement between mine-owners and -em-
ployees is chat the local basic wage shall be
the State basic wage plus 7s. 6d. a week, an
aggregate meeting has been held and a strike
against the new award has been ordered. But
you don’t strike against the law; you either
obey it or rebel against it. Certainly there
is no law to say that a man shall work for
£3 17s. 6d. a week if he doesn’t want to;
but if he will not accept the wage which the
law fixes, he can have no claim to the dole
provided for the unemployed. Incidentally,
on the figures over many years cost of living
at Broken Hill (food, clothing and housing)
is less than in Sydney or (to take one big
country town) Goulburn ; on the Govern-
ment Statist’s figures, it is less even than the
average for the State —chiefly on account of
the prevailing low rents.
There have been some tariff “readjust-
ments” to conciliate the Country party.
Perkins, the Assistant Minister of Customs,
protests that they do not mean that the
Government is weakening on Protection, but
as a result of one 0 f the “readjustments”
it is announced that no more window-glass
is to be made in Australia. About 250 men
were engaged in making it. In 1926-27 this
country, then at the height of its foolish-
ness, paid away £1,307,827 for imported
glass and glassware. Last year it paid
only £223,251.
These politicians who wave a lordly paw
and say “Do the thing properly!” amid enthu-
siastic applause are a great nuisance. Two
of them are responsible for a lot of the
moment’s trouble. First there, was Billy
Hughes, who rushed up the price of raw
sugar from £2l to £3O 6s. Bd.-, though all the
rise that the Royal Commission recommended
was £l. That lordly business not only sent
men sugar-farming by the score, as it was
intended to do, but bumped up the price of
sugar land ; and to-day the Government has
had to put up a violent struggle to get the
retail price back even 4d. per* pound. The
oilier case is in regard” to old-age pensions.
When Bruce and Page were gaily collecting
and scattering millions, they made them-
selves good fellows to a few more by, pushing
up the pension rate to 20s. a week; and
to-day there is hardly a politician in the coun-
try who doesn’t tremble a little at the knees
at the thought of pulling the rate down a
further 2s. 6d. to 15s.
Next year will be the centenary of the
death of Wilberforce. The situation hasn’t
changed much since his day. It is estimated
that there are 160,000,000 slaves in Russia
alone.
Sydney’s Tin Hare inquiry wandered
towards the end from the complicated to the
incomprehensible. The ordinary rules of
logic were suspended, so if Smith said he
owed Jones money he was prepared vo
testify that Jones paid him a large amount
to settle the debt that Smith couldn’t pay.
But the Judge turned a pale green when he
heard that a witness was to receive £5OO in
cash and £4OOO in shares for having an idea—
apparently the idea that he could struggle
along with the money, for no other was men-
tioned.
Otway Falkiner, manager for the big
Falkiner family squatting concern, told the
Wool Committee that they hadn’t made any
profits since 1925 —last year their loss was
about £lO,OOO. Deducting land tax the cost
of running a sheep was 13s. 2d. a year;
land tax added 25., which, so far as they
were concerned, made all the difference
between profit and loss. That brings us
back to the old question : If Australian wool
is so indispensable to the world’s market as
it is alleged to be, why is it sold at a loss?
If a man has something which another must
have, and, though knowing that, sells it at
a loss, then he oughtn’t to be in business.
Are we deceiving ourselves about our wool?
If we are not, then there is no getting away
from it—we are fools.
Nice old gentlemen like Canon Cakebread,
of Randwick (N.S.W.), are saying that
surely the Federal Government could have
managed some other way—surely it wasn’t
necessary to cut down the poor old people’s
pension. The nice old gentlemen don’t,
however, say how it could be done. Aus-
tralia’s floating debt is now nearly 83 mil-
lions. That is to say, we are not paying
pensions: we are owing them —-and passing
“Boo, we want jam!”
“Well, there’s the pot. If you think you
can get any more out of it than I’ve
given you, take it!”
the bill on to our kids. But the Canon is
mild compared with Beasley and James,
M’s.H.R.. who want Lyons shot—for not
being able to spread jam on the butter
after the pot has been well and truly licked
out.
The League of Nations looks as though it
may have to call a meeting of creditors.
There are no less than 24 nations which
haven’t paid up their union dues. Germany
lately sent along a cheque for £26,000; but
it also told its bank in effect, to honor the
order only if the money was spent on Ger-
man material for the League's new head-
quarters. Britain, of course, has paid up.
It is providing one-fifth the entire cost of
the gorgeous premises, and has had only
one small order—a matter of a few library
fittings. So far as the League is concerned
his real name is John Cow. .
THE COW: “I would give milk if I only
had chaff.”
THE FARMER: “I would give chaff if I could
only get milk.”
THE ASS : “Well, a cow ought to be able
to solve that problem if a human being
can’t.”
The typical Australian capital lives on
the verge of a water famine or in combat
with a huge debt incurred to bring water
an absurd distance to its door. Sydney, for
example, has a moderate rainfall, a high
evaporation, no river worth speaking of
(though it has a commodious salt-water
estuary), and nothing outstanding in the
way of fertility. Now the familiar cry is
heard that, unless a few more millions are
spent on waterworks, there will be a dire
shortage next summer.
Hoover says he is against the Demo-
cratic party’s proposal to repeal prohibi-
tion because it would involve the revival
of the old drinking saloon. The saloon was
bad, but prohibition by Federal law has
proved about 25 times worse. The Govern-
ments of the most populous States have
mostly decided that enfoi'cement is no busi-
ness of their police and judiciary. The
buyer of illicit liquor has altogether ceased
to be a defendant, and the gangster who
sells it has become a national danger and
disgrace.
The Federal Government is preparing to
work off a merry jest which every Crown
colony knows well. It is preparing a bill to
appoint a council of 15 members to make
recommendations to the Administrator of
New Guinea. The Government is to nomi-
nate eight members ; the other seven, though
elected by “local interests,” must be approved
by the Government. On these councils, as
Papua has found, the Government vote is
always in the majority, and though the
“approved” local representatives may “make
representations,” authority need take no
notice of them.
Kew (Vic.) Council objects to the Argyles
spending £40,000 in improving the out-of-
date Kew asylum for the insane and suggests
that the institution should be removed to
Gippsland, or some other part remote from
Kew. Money for a new asylum, it contends,
could be obtained by selling the city front-
ages of the present area (about 800 acres),
and reserving the part skirting the Yarra for
the public, though it is a poor time to sell
land. Kew is represented by an honorary
Minister, Kent Hughes, and Argyle, years
before he dreamed of becoming Premier, was
its Mayor.
When one trade-union secretary falls out
with another the public learns things. The
secretary of the N.S.W. United Laborers,
who support Lang, is engaged in a mortal
struggle for members with the secretary of
the Railway Workers’ branch of the A.W.U.,
which is for Scullin and Theodore, and
the latter has had the latest word:—
The. U.L.U. secretary makes much of the reduced
membership of our branch. It is due to the fact that
the majority of the members of this and other organi-
sations were on the dole during the term of the Lang
Government, which gave him his free gold pass.
As for our branch funeral fund, members have
always been paid. A member of the U.L.U. died
afti-f paying into its funeral fund for a number of
years. When his widow applied for payment she
wps told that her husband owed 9s. to the union,
and in consequence she received nothing.
The N.S.W. Trade-Union Act dates from
1881. It is so defective that the Registrar
cannot compel union bosses to submit annual
balance-sheets, and, as he said in his last
report, “any opinion I might give, as to the
rights of a member would not be enforceable.”
The measure should certainly be amended to
admit of his protecting wage-earners against
the petty tyrants of the unions to which
they have to belong.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Adelaide St.”: Railway lost property-
sales generally produce some queer incidents.
Brisbane saw an unusual one when, among
other forgotten items, an artificial leg was
put up for auction. Boots taken off to
ease aching feet and then abandoned by
forgetful slipper-wearers are a common
find, but how the leg got left is a puzzle.
It brought no bids, and the auction-
eer offered to let any willing party take
it home as a souvenir, “or in case.” An
individual was persuaded to accept the buk-
shee offer and marched off with it. Next day
it cast up again in the lost property office —
forgotten again.
$ $ * $
“Nakhoda”: The war-bonus idea has
spread from Washington to Siam, of all
places in the world. One of the first, docu-
ments the revolutionists who recently upset
the established regime had to read was a
petition from Siam’s “War Comrades” for
a gratuity for active service. The Land
of the White Elephant threw down the gage
of battle to the Central Powers in 1917.
the fact that there were a number of
ENGLISH AS SHE IS SPOKE.
“I was simply historical with laughter.”
“Hysterical, darling— not historical.”
“No fear! Historical—I laughed for dges.”
German steamers sheltering in the Menam
possibly influencing its decision. A royal
decree was issued authorising the despatch
of a punitive expedition to Europe and
Allied leader-writers visualised hordes of
Siamese warriors leaping out of the
trenches on the Western front. A con tin
gent w ? as farewelled with patriotic fervor
in June, 1918, but history is silent as to
its subsequent achievements. Nevertheless
it is on record that George V. informed
Prajadhipok, his royal brother, that the
Empire would never forget the services
rendered by Siam to the common cause.
* * * *
“Thormanby”: As to the vexed question
of using military titles in civilian life (B.
24/8/’32) may I add my testimony? As
a boy in England I was a good deal ex-
posed to military and naval folk, retired
and otherwise. The custom was that if a
man had attained the rank of a colonel in
the army or a post captain in the navy—
the two ranks are opposite numbers or there-
about —he kept it in civil life. Generals
and admirals, of course, were accorded the
handle. 1 am speaking only of the regular
forces; volunteer or even militia ranks were
not recognised. Those were the days when
an officer in either service was accounted
a swanking bounder if he appeared in public
when off duty in any attire but mufti.
“Claverton”: Before
a N.S.W. country magis-
trate the other da.v a
father proceeded agan.M
his 24-year-old son for
trespass. The amazing
thing about it was that
the son was working for
the father, too. But the
old man wanted the
young one to work on
an outlying farm, and
the young man regis-
tered his objection by
coming home and camp-
ing under the paternal
roof-tree. Apparently hr
was quite willing tc
work there, but not ir
the other place. A 1
though the magistrat
declined to record a con
viction, he told the de-
fendant he was tres-
passing, and enjoined
him to get out. It is
the sort of thing thar
one reads about in thr
novels of Eden Phil
potts and Hall Caint
but hardly expects to on
counter outside of Dart-
moor or the Isle of Man
“D.”; From Sydney’s “Sunday Sun”:—
Visiting Australians are often surprised at the
smallness of the English Sunday papers, and inquire
why they compare so poorly with “The Sunday Sun.”
Ralph Blumenfeld, w r ho runs Lord Beaver-
brook’s papers, explained the damnable
business. It appears that the trade unions,
with what he rightly described as “an inex-
plicably insane folly,” refuse to have any
truck with colored supplements. It adds
another count to my long score against those
vindictive enemies of true culture the
British workers. Over and over again have
I picked up my Sunday “Observer” in Lon-
don and deplored its aridity. True, I used
to find a political page by Garvin ; theatrical
and talkie notices by such men as St. John
Ervine; some of the best book criticisms, in
the Empire; special articles by the leading
thinkers of the day, and other mitigating
features. But where, I used to ask with
something akin to despair, where is the
equivalent of Ginger Meggs? Or Fatty
Finn? In the “Observer’s” travesty of a
social section I found no familiar references
to Jimmo This a nd Janie That; no details
of the cocktail parties and self-effacing
charitable works of members of Younger
Sets. Oh for a “Sunday Sun” ! I would sigh,
and a few tasteful pars about Smart Setters,
and B.T.’s, young, old and senile. If papers
like the “Observer” can only be raised to
our level by the proletarian propaganda that
lias resulted in the establishment of colored
supplements here, I, for one. would be willing
to see Messrs. Jock
Gard e n, Donald
Grant, Mark Gos-
ling and others sent
back to their native
land to undertake
the good work at
the local taxpayers’
expense.
* *
“ Jeamcs”; John
I» ro a dwood and
Sons is another of
the seemingly im-
perishable concerns
that science has
ruined. Last month
a London Chancery
Division Judge
sanctioned a reduc-
tion of the capital
to £28,000; and the
firm owes £216.000-
odd, less £136,516
that a generous
creditor has for-
given it. When I
wrns a boy every
affluent British
home contained its
Broadwood “grand"
—the contemporary equivalent of, say ;
a Rolls —and “Swish” Broadwood, the
then head of the firm, was one of London's
best-known spendthrifts. A tall, lean,
sinister-looking individual, he always re-
minded me of Max Beerbohm’s Lord George
Hall as he clattered along Piccadilly on the
box of his four-in-hand. Those were days
when every girl learned the piano at school;
when the piano was played after every
dinner-party; when young men and women
with and without voices yowled love-songs
across pianos at every opportunity; wffien
a piano was considered an ornament, and
when John Broadwood and Sons, which has
held a Royal Warrant since the days of
George 11., earned the best part of £40,000
a year. I often wonder if Broadwood's
sensed its approaching doom on that day, 33
years ago, when Marconi first established
wireless communication between England
and France, as Venice did when Vasco da
Gama first established sea communication
between Europe and India 433 years ago.
“C.Q.”: One never knows where a two-
up school may operate. The other day the
Moulamein (N.S.W.) police raided one on an
out-back stock route between Balranald and
Swan Hill. The players scattered, as they
mostly do, but in this case there was no
clambering over back-yard fences; some took
to the bush and others tried to swim the
Murray. However, the police managed to
gather in a score.
ALL RIGHT ON BALANCE.
LADY (to bird-seller): “Now, for instance, what words can this
bird say beginning with ‘A’?”
BIRD-SELIER: “Very few, lady; but he picks up wonderfully on the next letter."
“Farleigh”: Somebody having mentioned
that the word "hike” was used in Kipling,
and that it was probably a remnant of his
residence in the U.S.A., I sought for and
found it without much difficulty. But it
seems to have been a bit of the vernacu-
lar of the British soldier; it occurs in one
of the earlier regimental stories, where
Ortheris requests Learoyd to “hike down”
half a dozen bottles of beer into a boat
where the three musketeers and their pat-
ron are passing a summer evening. Obvi-
ously “hike” in this sense means to “jerk,”
not to “tramp across country.” I fancy
in some parts of rural England this variant
is more often spelled and pronounced
“hoick.”
“Cine Ma”: One reason why I think
American pictures ought to be prohibited.
When my small boy returns from the local
theatre on wet Saturday afternoons his face
is shining with excitement and I have to
listen for a solid hour to a description of
“Tarzan of the Apes,” complete with plot,
down to the minutest detail. When he
comes home from school his face is not shin-
ing with enthusiasm, and when I ask him
what he has learnt that day he says, “Oh,
nothing.” Yet he learns a lot. He gets
geography served up something in this way.
for instance: —
Tasmania: Products —Gold, iron, steel, bismuth,
onions, politicians and Jerusalem artichokes. Ports
Burnie, Georgetown, Dulltown and Dosstown.
He has to store all those reveal ng facts in
his cranium and produce them at examina-
tions. If his education were made as in-
teresting as “Tarzan”—and it could be- a
parent’s life would be made intolerable.
“Whitehall”: A leader-writer in the “S.
M. Herald” deplored “the dangerous idea
that a person has only to stand in the
middle of the road to hold up traffic.
One recalls a once-celebrated picture, “His Majesty,
the Baby.” We ought to have grown up since then.
The nurse and pram in the picture referred
to aren’t standing in the road, but crossing
it. With the difference that modern bobbies
hold up cars instead of ramping bus- and
cab-horses, the same spectacle can be wit-
nessed any fine day during the London
season. I saw a policeman hold up the
surging Oxford-street traffic near the Marble
Arch a few years ago to let a shabby little
girl with a three-year-old boy in tow
cross over en route to the Edgeware-road.
The Metropolitan Constabulary are carefully
trained in those stunts by crowd-psycho-
logists at Scotland Yard. It helps to make
them popular, a prime requirement with a
force that has to preserve law and order
unarmed.
“D.D.”: I wonder if the hard-of-hearing
N g.W. judge mentioned by “P.X. ’ (B.
24/8 /’32) is identical with that great old
legal light who fondly imagined that no-
body but himself was aware of his infirm-
ity. On one occasion, after giving the pris-
oner a verbal skelping, he prescribed a four
years’ stretch in Berrima Gaol. That s
all right, old buffer,” said the prisoner with
affected nonchalance; “just run up and see
me do it on my blanky head! ’ That,
said ’Sonah gravely, “is a matter not within
my jurisdiction; you must appeal to the
Executive.” He was evidently under the im-
pression that the hardened offender had asked
for some variation in the sentence.
4 •-> * *
“F.S.”: The youth who. actuated by perse-
cution mania, slashed Millet’s “Angelas” in
the Louvre made an unfortunate selection.
He wanted to draw attention to the
fact that he had been out of employ-
ment for a year. Millet was more badgered
by the problem of existence than any artist
that ever lived. He had to alternate pot-
boilers with masterpieces in order to avoid
dying of actual starvation. It was another
motive that drove a young man in Mel-
bourne to enter the bar of Young and
Jackson’s, purchase a glass of aerated water
and throw it at the famous “Chloe,” seri-
ously though not irreparably damaging her
naked beauty. “Chloe” has always lain
heavily on the conscience of Melbourne,
When she was in private hands her owner
hung her in his drawing-room, where she
was visible from the street when the room
was lighted. Protests from shocked citi-
zens were so numerous that he was obliged
to shift her elsewhere. Strecton once sug-
gested that the lady should be acquired by
the National Gallery authorities, but the
advisers of that body, viewing her with
more artistic objectivity, decided she was in
her most appropriate atmosphere already.
« * * *
“Si Anu” : The Englishman is a whale for
tradition wherever he happens to be. When
a native magistrate in a British Malayan
police court had a clean charge sheet
recently, he was solemnly handed a pair of
white gloves by the district officer. Nobody
wears gloves in Malaya so the magistrate
was as nonplussed as if he had been pre-
sented with a piece of pork. However, he
pocketed the emblems and toddled home, no
doubt wishing the gift had taken the form
of a white umbrella or a pair of white
socks or something equally useful.
* * $ *
“L. 1.8.” : Lot me add my heartfelt curse
of the puttee to that of “T.Y.I” (B.
10/8/’32). Fie says they were invented by
the natives of India —which is rather a large
order. The fact is that they were the result
of a Simla brainwave following on a report
of a punitive expedition into Waziristan
many years ago. The brass-hat who put his
signature to it suggested that the leg bandages
worn by the Pathans with whom his force
was engaged were probably responsible for the
agility and endurance of the elusive enemy
in that wild mountain country. Simla
thought over it for the usual spell of years,
appointed committees, and finally issued a
sealed pattern. The War Office character-
istically followed suit, and that’s how the
puttee was born. Yet the same Simla must
be credited with one bright idea, which has
made good the world over —“shorts,”
to wit. The first infantry regiment I saw
wearing them was the Dorset Light Infan-
try, fresh in South Africa from the Indian
North-West Frontier —and how the other
lads of horse, foot and guns, clad in puttees
and pantaloons, envied them !
$ * ❖ ❖
“Shrewsbury”: Without altogether back-
ing the contention of “Jeames” that chang-
ing fashions in speech are largely dictated
by inverted snobbery (B. 31/8/’32), there
is no doubt that each generation produces
its own vernacular flavoring. In a boyhood
spent among people who did it as a matter
of course, I learned to drop the final “g”
to which “Jeames” refers. To this day
and without any snobbish intention I find
myself unable to do otherwise—as the twig
is bent, etc. At the same time I am old
enough to remember folk qf breeding and
education who spoke of ’ospitals and ’otels.
Further back I can recall one old lady of
distinction who always referred to lilac as
“laylock” and yellow as “yaller.” She did
this because in her girlhood the words were
pronounced that wav and she never saw
any reason to conform to more modern
pronunciations.
“Lasi” : Touching that ingenuous plea by
the Tort Moresby police convicted of trying
to sell bird-of-Paradise feathers (B.
31/8/’32), how about this one? The offender,
an ordinary terracotta civilian, was charged
with stealing three bobs’ worth of im-
ported fruit from B.P.’s store at Port.
He pleaded guilty, and when asked, by the
Bench what had moved him to this lapse
just replied “Because me likem.” when
the Bench got its breath back it said one
month with hard labor —this last one of
the standard Papuan jokes where native
prisoners are concerned.
THE BRIDAL AGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The ages of Australian brides last year, according
to figures supplied l»y Commonwealth Statistician
Giblin, ranged from 13 to 88, and those of bride-
grooms from 1C to 102. The most frequent age of
bridegrooms was 24, and of brides, 21.”
One never knows where Cupid’s darts
Their place and time are waiting
To pierce the most unlikely hearts
And ring the bells for mating.
From shy thirteen to sere .five-score,
What range the table covers !
But when she’s twenty-one, no more,
And lie, her Romeo, twenty-four,
That fills the bill for lovers.
This earth we like to think a stage
For matches made in Heaven.
She should be half her soul-mate’s age,
Some legend says, plus seven.
I hold, when nuptial life’s begun,
Three years between is plenty;
More fitting date there’s surely none
To wed than when she’s twenty-one
And he is four-and-twenty.
What though the times be bright or black
With clouds or sunshine laden,
The Jill must have her stalwart Jack,
The man his radiant maiden.
Here’s proof he never wants her more
Led to the altar lente ,
Or p’r’aps some registrar before,
Than when he’s come to twenty-four
And she is one-and-twenty.
Heigh-ho ! for whispering marriage vows
And marx-iage lines a-scribblin’,
No tale of years quite disallows.
Teste the patient Giblin.
But w-lien your fancy turns, my son.
To matrimonial cages,
And twenty-four year-laps you’ve run,
And she is glowing twenty-one,
You’ve hit the mark for ages.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Rokko”: Another case of quick think-
ing. A Sydney girl left her car outside a
city ragshop, and in the ecstasy of bargain-
hunting forgot all about time-limits. When
she returned a policeman was taking the
number. She had a moment of panic, as
Dad, having paid fines for two minor
offences, had threatened to confiscate the
car on the third occasion : then she ran to
the corner anfi caught a tram that dropped
her at another shop about half a mile
away. From there she telephoned agitatedly
to the police to say that her car, parked out-
side, had been stolen. Half an hour later
she was in the “recovered” car. driving
blithely home, without the third black mark
against her.
$
“Bert the Carpenter”: Queer accidents?
A mate of mine was working on a repair
job on an outport jetty, and in walking
along a stringer caught a loose bit of
sole leather on a splinter, tripped and fell in.
Another carpenter, not knowing whether the
first one could swim, sprang for a coil of rope
and in doing so kicked a bucket of hot
tar into the water, where it spread out into
a patch about 10ft. in diameter. A second
later the man in the water came up to
the surface again—right in the centre of
the tar! He was never in the slightest
danger of being drowned, but it took pounds
of butter to get the, tar off his badly scalded
head, neck and arms.
* * * *
“L. 1.8.”: Australia’s Minister for De-
fence, the perennial George Pearce, has
been warned, as they say in the army, to
make arrangements for the unveiling of the
war memorial to Australian and Maori-
land troops who fell in action in Sinai,
Palestine and Syria from 1916 to 1918.
The bronze group depicts an Australian
Light Horseman and a M.L. Mounted Rifle-
man in action, and will be mounted on a
base of Australian stone, 34ft. high. It
will be erected at Port Said and the money
to pay for it has been provided by the men
who served in this section of the war, the
Commonwealth Government and the M.L.
ditto. The soldiers’ contribution amounted
to £5274, and that of M.L. to £2009.
The Commonwealth Government promised
£lO,OOO, but to date is characteristically
shy over half that amount.
A ROYAL COMMISSION.
FATHER: “Did you do that?”
BOBBY: “Er—I don’t remember.”
“Melitar”: Without in tins least impugn-
ing “Ex-Sahib’s” story of the Indian who
salaamed to him across the drop just
before he was sent to do what Thomas
Atkins used to call his “dangle” (B.
31/S/’32), I would like to point out that
in India, as elsewhere, condemned criminals
are pinioned before being led to the gallows.
How a man with his hands tied behind
his back can salaam to anyone is difficult
to understand. However, the story recalls
that told by Pooh Bah in “The Mikado”:—
Though, as I have said, the head was dead, and the
criminal dead was he,
It stood on its neck with a smile well bred and
bowed three times to me.
Tt was none of your impudent, off-hand nods, but.
humble as could be.
For it clearly knew the deference due to a Man of
Pedigree.
ONE AND ANOTHER.
“I don't think she’s the kind that marries.”
“Yes, but, as my poor husband says, it’s not always the kind that marry.”
“Oran”: If the Australian soldiers set
store on Yankee packs (B. lfl/8/’32) the
Maorilanders coveted German boots, first-
aid outfits and, above all, the splendid field-
glasses of the officers—-but they were rarely
procurable. One warrior souvenired a pair
of boots from a Fritz and carried them
round with him for five months, meaning to
take them back to M.L. But he was
wounded on the Somme, and the last
thing he saw before he lost consciousness
was an R.A.M.C. man putting on those
boots. He never saw man or boots again,
and he speaks bitterly of the R.A.M.C. to
this day.
“Capricorn”: One of the sort that is
born every minute tried to sell the head
office of the Common-
wealth Bank last
week a tin of brass
filings for gold. Asked
how he came into
possession of the
stuff. the disillu-
sioned mug said he
had bought the tin
from a "prospector”
for £2O. It recalls
an old North Queens-
land happening. A
couple of lads were
being grub-staked by
a storekeeper on one
of the. small gold-
fields. When he
looked at the stone
they had ready to go
through the little
local mill he closed
down on tucker and
all other supplies.
The pair started put-
ting the stone
through themselves,
the mill owmer driv-
ing the engine. One
of them, getting a
couple of pigs of
lead, rasped them
down and fed the fil-
ings into the box,
whence they and the
crushed ore ran over
the plates. These
soon took on the
aspect of well
yeasted loaves, where-
upon the unbelieving
store keeper was
hauled up to the
tune of “I told you
so.” Convinced, ho
gave the pair a good
cash advance and all
the tucker they
wanted. When he
came down to see the plates scraped next day,
liis clients had vanished. The reason was
evident when the amalgam was put through
the retort.
* * * *
“M. de Paris”: Whatever it may,be now,
history records that the office of executioner
(B. 24/8/’32) was once one of considerable
honor. In the days of the Holy Roman
Empire it was not unusual for the heads-
man to be ennobled and his office made
hereditary. This obviated the necessity of
a plebeian laying his defiling hands on the
princes and aristocrats who so often ended
their careers at the block. In England, even
in those days democratic, it was otherwise,
and the individual whose office it was to
string up the common churls frequently
operated on his “betters” as well. In the
good old hanging days in England, a cen-
tury on more ago, the operator was a popu-
lar celebrity, regarded in much the same
light as a prominent professional pugilist
or footballer of to-day—one with whom the
general public considered it an honor to
converse or drink. Take Dennis, the hang-
man in “Barnaby Rudge,” and his admiring
tavern associates as a case in point.
* * * *
“Snap”: “Squabble between Judge and
K.C.” is a headline that the dailies gener-
ally make the most of. The
public presumably likes to
read how 7 a forensic lumin-
ary can be grossly rude and
flounce out of court, or
(more often) how 7 , after an
exchange of hot words, the
disputants calm dowm and
arrive at a rapprochement,
each explaining that, he
hadn’t the slightest inten-
tion of hurting the other
wdg's feelings. But magis-
trates frequently have to
put up with worse insults
that Judges, at the hands
of vitriolic police-court
attorneys. Sometimes the
trodden beak will turn, al-
though I only saw 7 him
turning effectively once.
Old Maitland Brown, the
Geraldton (W.A.) Rhada-
manfhus of pre-Fcdcration
days, was a courteous and
tolerant soul on the bench,
but a day came w 7 hen his
patience gave way under
the persistently repeated
impertinences of a cantan-
kerous solicitor and he
committed the offender to
gaol—until such time as
he should apologise. And
to the local clink the ex-
plosive attorney went —he
was a M.L.C., too, which
gave the case more prom-
inence—where he presently
arrived at the desired
frame of mind. It took him nearly a week,
though.
il: # ❖ $
“Tiki” : The people of Maoriland, including
the police, got some enlightenment concern-
ing what things are lawful and what un-
lawful on a recent occasion. A middle-aged
laboring man walked down Willis-street,
one of the principal thoroughfares of Well-
ington, clad only in a loincloth, intending,
as he said, to call upon the Minister of Labor
and “show him what an unemployed Worker’s
suit would be like in the future.” A police-
constable arrested Chidley’s imitator on sight,
and bundled him off to the lock-up in a taxi!
What to charge him with was then the ques-
tion. The police reckoned two charges would
fit the case—vagrancy, which in M.L. im-
plies “idle and disorderly and ‘.‘disorderly
behavior.” Before the case came into court
the vag. charge was withdrawn. The accused
embarrassed the prosecuting policeman by
asking him if he had noticed in the, cable
news that Gandhi, when in London, wore
even scantier attire than accused did. and
was not arrested for disorderliness. The
reply was that the accused wasn’t Gandhi
—not a very good retort in law before
which all men are presumably equal. Asked
by accused whether he had seen attire simi-
lar to his loincloth pictured in stained-glass
windows in churches, the policeman said he
didn’t know anything, about that. Had the
policeman seen photographs of Maori cere-
monials, with the Governor and his lady
rubbing noses with natives attired in less
than accused wore when arrested? The
policeman retorted that such occurrences had
nothing to do with this case. Accused con-
tended that as the matter was one of, law it
had a good deal to do with it. as a criterion
of permissible attire. The magistrate, took a
week to think it over and then dismissed the
case. Accused, he said, hadn’t been proved
to be noisy, quarrelsome, unruly or abusive,
and his garb wasn’t indecent. If he convicted
accused he would open the door to prosecu-
tions against boxers, swimmers, athletes
generally, and a lot of the people on the
stage, and he wasn’t inclined to do so.
* * * *
“Kingsland”: Newspaper biographers -)f
Camp Gillette refer to him as the inventor of
the safety razor. No doubt he was the first to
exploit the cheap, paper-thin blade which is
in world-wide use to-day, but tin' device is
n lot older than Gillette, who died at 77.
When a schoolboy in England in the late
’eighties, the writer occupied a dormitory
presided over by an awe-inspiring monitor
who shaved every morning. The razor he
used to exhibit to our admiring gaze differed
little from the safety of to-day save that the
blade was a heavy steel one with a single
edge. There was an arrangement for strop-
ping this, which was guaranteed to have a
life as long as that of the old-fashioned type.
Razors of this type are still on the market,
and the several makes all hail from Sheffield.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A Melbourne business man who
enjoyed a good income before depresh but
is now on the dole received a letter from a
firm enclosing an old account, and stating
that it was surprised the money had not
been paid. Ilis reply was terse. “You may
be surprised by a ghost,’’ he wrote, “and
you may be astounded or amazed at un-
failing to pay your bill, but to be ( surprised
by it is grammatically impossible.”
* * =:= ■>
“Rhormi”: The profit accruing to banks
from notes which were never presented must
reach a huge total. Some years ago a
young Norwegian, bearing a letter of credit
to our firm, requested us to cash a £lO note
of the Bank of N.S.W., issued in Maoriland.
On examination I found that the note bore
my own counter-signature. As I left the
service of the bank in 1880, the note must
have been at least 40 years old, but it was
as crisp and fresh as when I signed it. The
explanation was that it had been found
between the leaves of a book that had be
longed to the young man’s uncle, who had
returned to Norway from the M.L. goldfields
in 18S2.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : The steady demand there is in
London for the pornographic, provided
always that it is strong enough and costly,
is shown in a life of D. H. Lawrence by
a sympathetic woman friend. Towards the
finish, the quiet-living, domesticated, “almost
prudish” man whose writings had been
called “the foulest in English literature”
expressed himself in paint, and had a pic-
ture show in London. Straightway “the
Mandrake Press expended £2OOO on a book
of the pictures, including 10 copies in vellum
at 50 guineas, which last had already been
ordered six times over.” And then the
HIS SPECIALTY.
“Is there a thing you can do better than anybody else in
the class?”
“Yes, sir—read my own writing.”
police seized the lot, paintings and re-
productions ; and would probably have
gathered in the painter, too, only that he
was in Germany, dying.
* * * *
“Tackier”: Cabled that Eva Tanguay,
one of the most famous of American vaude-
ville artists in her day, has been overtaken
by abject poverty in her old age in California.
She was the original American stage expo-
nent of that most ghastly of all unspanked
brats Little Lord Fauntleroy. It is doubtful
if any book ever published spilled such
mush on a suffering public, unless it was
Dean Farrar’s “Eric, or Little by Little,
familiar to schoolboys in the ’eighties. But
the school story was never dramatised; it
only hit the public with one barrel, so to
speak. Not the least amazing thing about
“Fauntleroy” is that it was written by a
woman from Lancashire, whore they are not,
as a rule, partial to flapdoodle.
* ' :J: * *
“Nalch” : One hundred expert stone cutters
and chisellers have just finished in an Ital-
ian quarry the largest war memorial in the
form of a statue yet executed. It weighs 4<>
tons and is to be erected at Verdun to com-
memorate America’s part, in Armageddon.
It will stand 165 ft. and on the top will be
a winged Victory.
HUNGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Life is all hunger. Riches, position, ease—
When we are you fig and poor, we hunger
for all these;
We would be great in the land and move in
fine array;
And our dreams, picturing all we hunger for,
Lure us on our way.
And when we are old and possess riches,
position, ease,
And so now never more hunger for these,
Then, living in memory of past times, wo
hunger for
The hunger that made these beautiful for us
In days of yore.
So on we go. When we are young in all our
dreams we see
The grand unhungry days we’ll know in the
years to be ;
And when life is for us a tale told, a song
sung,
Phen, dream-beautified, will rise the hungry
days we knew
When we were young.
VICTORIA.
ALAN D. MICKLE.


Fains that Foretell
CRIPPLING
DEFORMITIES
Rheumatism, Aching Muscles,
Stiff, Painful Joints, Backache,
Swollen Hands—these are
Serious Troubles
Don’t take risks! The moment body aches
and pains appear—drive out the cause! Let
Harrison’s Pills rid your system of the uric
acid poison—the origin of those dangerous
pains. Harrison’s Pills, modern antiseptic
remedy of a famous London doctor, definitely
and promptly remove the uric acid crystals
that lie along the nerves and muscles, tortur-
ing them at every movement. Immediately
the poison has been removed, the back, joint,
limb and muscle pains disappear and normal
health is restored. Relief comes quickly,
and t is real, lasting relief. Don’t suffer
pam and risk a useless old age needlessly
when you can get a package of Harrison’s
Pills from your chemist for 2/-. Take as
directed, and if you don’t get the benefit
you seek your money will be refunded.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
, . •„„„„„/! a foiv shillinffs a week put away regularly now will buy a
snrnrisinelvlarge’ amount of security for your dependants in the event of your
death By taking out an endowment policy you can insure against your own and
vour wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., I/TD.,
Most Solidly Progressive of the Younger Offices.
Has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see Bulletin, 30/3/ 32.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. MOONEY, Managing Director.
P. J. RYAN, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; F. C. Lock, Resident Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith, Resident bee.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
CAN YOU RISE WITH
CONFIDENCE TO
Deliver an address,
Speak effectively at conferences,
lodges and clubs,
Make an after-dinner speech or toast,
Preside at meetings,
Debate,
Make presentation speeches,
Deliver prepared political speeches,
Tell entertaining stories?
WATSON’S
COMPLETE COURSE IN
PUBLIC SPEAKING
will give you a thorough training to accomplish
all this and more. Mr. Watson will improve
your memory, develop self-confidence, and en-
large your knowledge and vocabulary. He
will give you personal attention... .treating
your own particular problems... .carefully
banishing all trace of “stage fright ’ and
nervousness... and training you under a monej-
back guarantee to make you an effective
speaker for all occasions.
Act now —write to Mr. Watson to-day.
MR. JAMES WATSON, F.A.I.S.
Principal. Watson’s Tutorial CUmes,
RICKARD HOUSE, 84 PITT ST., S\DNE\.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Patrick Joseph Lynch is the seventh Presi-
dent of the Senate. South Australia has pro-
vided two, Chaffey Baker and John New lands ;
Queensland two, Henry Turley and Thomas
Givens; N. S. Wales one, Albert Goulcl,
and Westralia a couple, Lynch and his
immediate predecessor, Walter Kingsmill
Four Presidents have had to be content with
a three-year term, but Chaffey Baker lasted
for five and a half years (1901-00) and
Givens for nearly 13 (1913-26).
Justice Ferguson, who retired from the
N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench twelve months
ago, after 20 years’ service, is to be. a
busy man again: he has taken the big job
of reporting on the simplification of legil
procedure for the N.S.W. Government, and
of taxation for both Commonwealth and
State Governments —all gratuitously. lie
and Pring were the great common-law men
in N. S. Wales in recent days. Before he
went to the bar Ferguson was a journalist.
That was in the days when J. F. Archibald
was planning The Bulletin; the two lived
together, and Ferguson helped his friend
through tlie first number by reading the
proofs. When he dreamed of a great daily
40-odd years ago, there were three men
Archibald saw on its staff —Coghlan, then
N.S.W. Government statistician; Chisholm
Ross, the doctor and alienist; and Fergu-
son, the laivyer.
It is a toss-up whether the oil business
or the consular service provides an active
young recruit with most experience. O. W.
Darch, the Sussex-bred g.m. of Shell in
Australia, graduated from an English uni-
versity to the headquarters of the firm in
London. Three months later he was, in
Hongkong. Next he opened a branch in
Formosa, then in process of being pacified
by the Japanese. Later he was at Canton
snowing the natives lioav to improve their
water transport—-South China is mostly
water —by substituting boat-trains towed
by motor-launches for their junks and sam-
pans. An eight-knot cabin motor-boat do-
O. W. DARCH, of Shell Oil.
vised by Darch was able to carry members of
his staff to any inland town that had a
canal or river with 10 inches of water
in it. After Manila arid other places he
came to Australia, where he has been busy
laying down bulk depots—one of them at
Alice Springs. An ardent buslilover, he
has struck a new note in commercial pub-
lications by including some excellent works
on Australian wildflowers and native bird-
life in the firm's literary activities.
William Walford Thorpe, who died last
week at 53, Avas an ethnologist of note; he
got a job on the scientific staff of the Aus-
tralian Museum, Sydney, Avlien only 19, and
did valuable research work in the branch
in which he specialised. Thorpe Avas one of
the founders of the Anthropological Society
of N.S.W., and had been its secretary for
the last three years. Few men have studied
the aborigines, their habits and customs as
closely ; one of his papers on Black Brother’s
mutilatory rites aasis read at last month’s
Science Congress.
The death of Harry Beardmore, M.L.A.
for Benambra in Vic. Assembly for 15
years, brought grief to a large family and
heaps of friends, for he was a fine type of
countrvman. An Honorary Minister under
Lawson in 1924, and under McPherson in
1929, Beardmore had just two days of
salaried office as Minister of Railways
before McPherson’s Government fell in
1929. He did not long survive his chief.
Harold Finnis,
who is seeing all-
ot li e r Adelaide
Show through, is a
descendant of Capt.
Jo h n Finn i s,
pioneer pastoralist
and landholder in
South Australia,
whose arrival in
the State coincided
with its foundation
96 y e a r s a g o.
Harold .1. finished
his schooling at
Adelaide Univer-
sity, and spent his
early working years
in the public ser-
vice. He was first
in the Lands De-
partment, then the
Government Pro-
duce Department,
and subsequently
the Department of
Agriculture. Fo r
several years he
was editor of the
“S. A. Journal of
Agriculture.” and
also general secre-
tary of the S. A.
A g ricultural
Bureau, Six years
ago he was made
secretary of the
Royal Agricultural
and Horticultural
Bureau of S.A. He
is also secretary ot
the Wine Overseas
Marketing Board,
of the S.A. Vine-
growers’ Associa-
tion and various
stud stock societies.
HAROLD J. FINN IS,
who is peeing another
Adelaide Show
through.
Some of Australia’s baronets are seldom
heard of till death or calamity overtakes
them • one such is Sir Alexander Cockburn-
Campbell, the fifth of his line, who was
reported the other day as an inmate °f the
Old Men’s Home at Claremont, W.A. me
title dates back to 1821, and the present
holder’s father was a man of note m
Westralia in his day. He was a member
of the old Legislative Council, which was
all the Parliament the colony luul up till
1890, and he was one of the three delegates
who went to England—the other two wore
Governor Broome and S. H. Parker, later
Chief Justice —to put the case tor Respon-
sible Government before the Imperial 1 ar-
liament. On his return he was elected
President of the Leg. Council and held the
position until his death 40 years ago. The
son. native-born, started in ttm civil service
and gave it up for station life in Kimberley
and the Northern Territory. He is bU.
William Macgregor came to Queensland
nearly 69 years ago under the Mcllwraitn
scheme which brought Scottish lads of go -
character out to the Northern State tor - .
After spells at navvying and shearing, fie
went into business in Brisbane and pros-
pered so much that, on his retirement five
years ago, lie was a director of several im-
portant concerns and a rich man. When
the estate on which his native village ot
Latheronwheel stands was on the market,
he purchased it, though he does not intend
to live the rest of his days in Scotland, Aus-
tralian ties being too strong.
Passed out in Perth at 82. Herbert Hock-
ing, the eldest of four brothers who went
from Adelaide to Westralia in the roaring
’nineties and found the establishment of
goldfields newspapers a highly profitable job.
At least the other three did; Herbert never
got much bevond Perth .and stockbroking.
Syd. Hocking, with Percy and Ernest,
founded the “Golden Age” _ and Courier
when Coolgardie Avas booming, and moved
on to Kalgoorlie in the nick of time to give
the Golden Mile and parts adjacent a daily
newspaper—one which was to prove a
veritable money-spinner for many a year
That was in 1895. and the
“Miner” has borne the imprint of Hockin*
and Co. ever since.
Australia’s old friend St. Clare Gron-
dona, who went to London m the first
place to represent The Bulletin, started
an extraordinarily successful movement
there a year ago. On July -M,
feiv people began to wear a Tudor biooch
or button as a symbol that, when they
entered a store, they desired to be first
shown Empire goods. Grondona and his
wife had formed among their friends a
league—the Tudor Rose of Industry to
thus help Empire trade; and to-day hav-
ing had the blessing of the Prince of V ales
and the Duke of York, it has a quarter ot
a million members and associate members,
with Grondona as hon. director.
John Russell, of Pitts worth (Q.), who
died at his Russell Park property the other
day, could fairly claim to be one of
the Darling Downs old-timers —ho was
born there in 1851. lie took up Russell
Park in 1877 and made a great reputation
as a breeder of dairy cattle and farm-
horses, his Clydesdale strains being in strong
demand throughout the Downs. In liis early
days lie was a teamster on a large scale,
carrying between the Downs centres and
Brisbane before the railway crossed the
Dividing Range.
Alee Waugh, the London novelist who
has become engaged to tin* Melbourne belle
Joan Chirnside, is one of two .brothers with
an unusuahgjft for satire. Ilis first work
was a novel about school-life which threw
a startling spotlight on the public school
system and started a boom in that sort of
literature. He was 17 when lie published it.
, “Hell’s Bells and Mamzelles” is the
hectic title of a war book by Joe Maxwell,
the latest V.C. to enter the ranks of authors.
Maxwell, an apprentice with .T. A. Brown,
of Newcastle, when lie enlisted, won the
D.C.M. in 1917 and the V.C. in the last
month of. the war. He has done some news-
paper reporting work since his return —the
start, of„ it was with the “Sunday Times”
when 11. D. Mclntosh had control.
A; man who in his time played many parts
was Thqinas Merson, dead in Brisbane at
64. Born in Devonshire of a good county
family, lie went to the Boer War as a Yeo-
man, and ’ later joined the South Afriean
constabulary. He had qualified as a solicitor
in-England, and after the rumpus practised
as a solicitor in Jo’burg, coming to Queens-
land with his brothers in 1912. They went
sugar-growing, but the affair with Fritz
caused an interruption. After his return
Mer-soii was admitted to the roll of solicitors
in Queensland, and took up practice again
in Innisfail.
J. E. (Ted) Baines, Deputy Registrar
and Taxing Officer of the Queensland
Supreme Court, is the first civil servant to
be retired by the Forgan Smith Govern-
ment under the age regulation. Born in
Ireland, he came young to Queensland,
studied law after leaving Brisbane Gram-
mar. and was appointed Taxing Officer at
Brisbane in 1889. He was one of the lead-
ing Queenslanders of his day in cricket,
football and boxing.
Waldemar Cooper has retired at 67 from
the job of Clerk of the Parliaments of
N.S.W., which he has held since 1914. For
21 years before that he was an officer of
the Legislative Council —Usher of the Black
Rod, among other things. His father,
Leonard Cooper, was in the same business
before him ; was, in fact, the first Clerk the
Leg. Council had. C. H. Calvert, Clerk
Assistant, steps into his senior’s shoes. With
him, too, the occupation is an hereditary
one; his father was Clerk of Parliament,
before Cooper, for 40 years and more.
No professor of any Australian university
has won more of the affection of his pupils
than Edgeworth David, who for so many
years taught geology in Sydney, and, as a
crowning achievement, has just completed
a geological map of Australia with explana-
tory notes. At the closing session of the
geological section of the Science Congress
Sydney’s Best-loved Professor.
brother professors declared that it might
well have taken another 50 years to pro-
duce such a work but for David’s store of
knowledge. That recognition and one other
thing gave the old scientist great joy—his
beloved protege. Mawson, was chosen presi-
dent of the next Congress.
Senate Presidents come from every class.
Kingsmill is a graduate of Adelaide Uni.
Lynch, who succeeds him, started to earn
his living as a ship’s fireman; later he
became a mining enginedriver on the West-
ralian goldfields, where his robust unionism
presently provided a path to Parliament.
But his first appearance in a public capacity
was as a member of the Boulder Council,
PADDY LYNCH, the new President of
the Senate.
“And would, army other gintleman like to
make a few disorderly remarks?”
a somewhat turbulent body in those days.
“Paddy,” as he is universally known, is 63
and a native of Co. Meath, Ireland. In his
spare time he is a farmer at Three Springs,
up in the northern end of the Westrahan
wheat belt. He left the Labor party when
he followed Hughes in the conscription split
of 1916.
Lynch has been promoted because the party
recognised that he hadn’t had quite all he
should have got from it. He had earned
Cabinet rank long ago, but George Tearce,
the perennial Minister from the West, has
always stood in the way; a bad rule has
been established that no State must have
more than its “fair number” of seats in a
Cabinet. Taddy, though well informed and
diligent, has in 26 years of Federal polities
had only three months of Ministerial life.
Pearce, his inferior in many respects, has
had over 20 years of office.
John Reynolds, a former Rhodes scholar
from S.A., is back in Adelaide to take over
the headship of St. Mark’s for a year while
Grenfell Price studies conditions in the
U.S.A. The future Mrs. Reynolds. Mag-
dalene Dorsch, has been taking a successful
Art course in London.
Henry George Sheaffe, who has died at
Bowral, knew almost every mile of the
Monaro; he was first District Surveyor at
Cooma, and then at Goulburn. He retired
21 years ago, and was 92 when the end came.
Paul Keig, whose death in Darwin at 67
is reported, was a well-known identity in
Papua in his day. A Manxman, he took to
the sea, and, finding his way to Papua,
made a lot of money out of a reefing pro-
position on Woodlark Island. Then he 'ran
a hotel in Sydney until the shovel and dish
called him again, this time to the N.T.,
where he was interested in several mining
ventures. Of late years he was employed
by the P.W.D. at Darwin.
St. Ivilda (Vic.) has erected on its upper
esplanade a clock-tower memorial to Carlo
Catani, formerly chief engineer of Vic.
Public Works Department. Coming to
Melbourne as a young man from Italy with
two compatriots, Catani was a great asset
to the State; it was he who hurried up the
construction of the Alexandra Gardens and
drive (now the glory of Melbourne) before
the visit of the present King in 1901. The
two compatriots were Baracehi. who became
Government astronomer, and Checehi, who
was an engineer of the State Water Com-
mission. Catani died 14 years ago-


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends. YVrit-
Feb., Profits. (15 p.c.). ten Otf. Reserves.
£ £ je
1922.. 536,261 412,500 20,000 3,336,818
1923.. 552,894 450,000 3,439,712
1924.. 550,291 450.000 3,540,003
Premiums on new shares, £600.000 4,140,003
1925.. 590,399 487,500 4,242,902
1926.. 627,611 525,000 50.000 4.295,513
1927.. 627,426 525,000 50,000 ’ 4,347,939
Premiums on new shares £600,000 4,947,939
1928.. 638,965 062,500 50,000 )
Provident fund, £25,000.. .. j >■ ,
1929. . 611,932 600,000 25,000 4,936,336
(124 p.c.)
1930.. 525,655 500,000 25,000 4,936,991
(7 p.c.)
1931.. 283,019 280,000 4,940,010
(4 p.c.)
1932.. 160,954 160,000 4,940,964
'The div. is paid in sterling equivalent,
which makes 4 p.c. worth a shade under
5 p.c. in Australian notes at the current
demand rate on London. In the final reckon-
ing, however, share premiums make the
div. worth no more than a trifle over half
the declared .sterling rate on three of the
four millions of capital. The 4 p.c. is the
lowest div. the co. has paid for over 90
years. The highest rate (36 p.c.) was
paid during the gold rush in 1854. In
1893 8 p.c. was distributed, followed by
6 p.c. and then 5 p.c. to ISOS. The figure
had climbed to 14 p.c. in 1912. and remained
steady until the close of accounts in 1929.
The market has always had a high opinion
of the scrip, due to visible -strength and a
conservative control. It prices the £lO
shares paid to £5 at £8 as against £7 12s.
(id. a year ago and £l5 two years before
that. At £S the return is 24 p.c. on a 4 p.c.
div. basis, or 5 p.c. should the distribution
rise to S p.c., which the market obviously
anticipates. On the basis of figures at the
close of last accounts an 8 p.c. div. would
call for 3.5 p.c. on total funds (capital am l
reserves combined), whereas last year’s de-
clared profit was 1.8 p.e. on these funds as
against 2.7, 6.8 and 7.1 p.c. for the three
preceding years. Incidentally, £1,500.000 of
the visible accumulations was earmarked as
a contingency reserve a year ago, when
nobody was quite sure what might happen
in connection with the currency.
After setting aside something for contin-
gencies out of the year’s takings, gross
earnings were figured £101,014 lighter than
the previous year’s, due largely to the drop
it. interest rates (this will further affect the
current year’s figures), growth in fixed de-
posits and lighter volume of exchange and
other business:—
1929. 1931. 1932.
Cross; profit . . £1,536,950 £1,239,552 £1,138,538
Kxes 925,018 956,533 977,584
Net profit £611,932 £283,019 £160,954
The tax bill (£273,850), which was £43,271
heavier, was responsible for the growth in
exes. The net result was £122,065 lighter
at 4 p.c. on capital as against 7, 13.1, 15.2,
17 and 16.7 p.c. back to 1927.
The solid nature of the financial struc-
ture, and other things, are seen in the next.
1 able :
Liabilities.
1929 1931. 1932.
Notes .. .. £579,729 £544,041 £403,480
Deposits .. .. 35,644,350 33,184,413 35.844,650
Bills, etc. .. 3,507,051 1,451,091 1,457,276
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 18,127,290 12,886,725 16,064,158
Advances . . . . 30,454,431 30,930,304 30,341,307
Premises- . . . . 385,745 382,526 380,845
The year’s spring of £2 660,237 in deposits
was mainly in interest-bearing accounts,
which represented 71 p.c. of the total as
against 66 p.c. at the close of accounts in
1931. For the most part the increase is
money that would have remained in or have
gone into industry under more settled con-
ditions. Liquids were 42.8 p.c. of the out-
side liabilities, and the bank was holding
only £4 4s. fid. of the public’s money for
every pound of its own. It is a strong
position, but it means low earning power.
Kandos Cemsnt (N.S.W.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 65,332 10 p.e. = 63,363 1,957 64,883
1924.. 109,905 10 ~ ~81,845 28,420 93,302
1925.. 127,829 10 „ ~84,232 43,592 130,894
1926.. 133.246 10 ~ ~84,232 49,014 185,908
Written off shares in other;cos. £25,380.. 160,528
1927.. 138,204 10 p.c. = 84,232 53,972 214,500
Written off shares in other cos. £35,000.. 179,500
1928.. 174,645 10 p.c. = 84,23,2 90,413 269,913
1929.. 137,898 10 „ ~84,232 53,666 323,579
1930.. 118,349 10 „ „ 84.232 34,117 357,696
1931.. 43,762 5 „ ~42,116 1,646 359,342
Written otf shared in other cos. £lO,OOO. . 349,342
1932.. 14,820 2J p.c. =21,058 343,104
The industry is in an unsound condition,
being heavily over-capitalised. The past,
therefore, cannot be accepted as a reliable
guide to the future. A sound financial posi-
tion, technical efficiency and a good sales
organisation don’t mean all they should ; f
production cannot be maintained at a
satisfactory level. The position is worst in
\ T . S. Wales, where plant capacity is as
follows
Co. Tons.
Kandos .. .. .. .. 225,000
Commonwealth . . . . . . 225,000
Southern .. .. .. .. 160,000
Standard 100,000
Sulphide Corp. . . . . .. 80,000
Total 790,000
In addition, Goliath, operating in Tax., sells
cement on the N. 8. Wales market. Here
peak-year consumption (365,650 tons in
1927) was little better than one-half of
present total plant capacity. Either of the
two larger cos. alone could have supplied
nearly double the demand of the whole
State in 1981 (116,500 tons). There has,
of course, been a scramble to find markets
in other States, where, though the position
is not quite so bad. existing plants are
capable of catering for a much greater
demand than has thus far existed.
To eliminate some of the wasteful com-
petition this co. and Australian Cement
(Vic.) amalgamated at the end of 1929. —■
the Vic. co.’s plant, at Fyansford, has about
the same capacity as that of Kandos. Each
took a million paids in Australian Portland,
which is now the operating co. Thus Kandos
lias become a holding and investment con-
cern. as the following comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows:—
1927. 19:10. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £842,328 £842,328 £842,328 £842,328
Liabilities . . 99,596 39,214 24,972 10,977
Freehold, plant:,
etc 732.632
Shares other cos. 267,200 1,031,247 1.021,247 1,021,247
Stocks .. 77,231
Book debts .. 121,43 S 98,247 46,382 11,960
Cash, etc. .. 151,860 165,860 184,261
It was the interest on Consols, fixed deposits,,
etc., and the co.’s commission earnings (it
acts as managing agent: for the operating,
co, in N.S.W.) that ' provided last year’s
£1.4,820 of profit, equal to 1.7 p.c. on capital.
Reserve were tapped for £O2BB to pay 2J p.c.
A year ago there was talk of returning t
couple of shillings per share; this is now
considered “inadvisable,” owing to “possible
developments.”
Exactly what the future holds for' those
in the industry it is difficult to say; The
Cement Manufacturers’ Association, which
is doing good work in widening flic uses of
cement, may develop into a carted. 1 Hut any
attempt to bolster up prices would restrict
sale’s and invite legislative interference.
Though the outlook is much brighter than
it was 12 months ago, demand will depend
largely upon expenditure on public and other
works, and this promises fo be much lighter
than of recent years. All that can be said
definitely is that the Australian Portland
group is well equipped, technically and
otherwise, for a- Struggle;
At 18s. 9d. the Kandos Co.’s pound shares
would return 5.8 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis.
Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.
Nomina)
. —Dividends , To Re- Re-
. June, Profits. Prof. Old. Total, series, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922. . 61,035 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 35,560 25,475 337,348
1923.. 36,127 6 „ 10 „ 35,560 567 337,915
1924.. 40,374- 6 „ 10 „ 35,560 10.814 348,729
1925.. 36.8'50 ' 6 S ~ 28,760 8,120 356.849
1920.. 31,060 6 „ 10 „ 35,560 352,349
1927.. 63,384 .6 ~ 10., 35,500 27,824 380,173
1928.. 47,524 6 „ 9„ 32,160 15,364 395,537
1929.. 41,455 6 „ 7„i 25,300 10,095 411,032
1930.. 65.409 6 „ - 9.. ,32,160 33,249 444,881
Written off, £30,026, . . . . . . 414.855
1931.. 9.127 0 p.c. 5 p.c. 18,560 405,422
1932.. 33,922 6 „ s„■ 18,560 15,362 420,784
The board. put the year’s net earnings at
£18,787 as against £8798 for the preceding
12 months, when the shipping section of
the business failed to show a profit for the.
first time since the Navigation Act gave local
cos. a monopoly of flit' inter-State trade,. The
difference between the profits claimed and
those shown in the table represents net
additions to various reserves, chief of
which is provision for depreciation, special
replacements, contingencies, etc. (now
£843,183, including £I4,S7S added during
the year). The addition was 81 p.c. of
the book value of the fleet, shown at cost
(£415,804) ; hence reserves in the table are
labelled nominal, because they are not 100
p.c. genuine.
But what is plain is that the sale of sur-
plus tonnage when prices Were high, and
liberal allowances for contingencies during
the flush years, enabled the board to accu-
mulate £280,596 in Commonwealth securi-
ties (£152.284). cash (£102,286. mostly fixed
deposits) and debentures, etc. (£26,076) at
June 80. A net return of 81 p.c. (£9821)
from these investments would cover the prof,
div. and show 2.4 p.c. on ord. capital. Thus
prospects for the ords. depend mainly upon
cargo and passenger earnings and upon
returns from the towage and coal-agency busi-
ness—the co. has no capital directly invested
in the coal industry. In the aggregate the '
fleet was kept employed for about half the
full number of working days last year,
though things brightened a little towards
the close' of accounts.
Balance-sheet figures disclose a snug finan-
cial position:—
1921. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . C 366,000 £366,000 £366,000 £366,000
Liabilities . . 128,600 04.167 44,760 47.,979
Steamers, etc, 1 . oqo J 474,026 414,525 415,304
Freehold, plant j | 51,932 51,698 51,468
Stores, etc. .. 38,256 13,910 8,031 12.183
Book debts . . 105,144 70,870 57,874 44,345
I lives t incuts,
cash.. .. 365,621 280,384 291,633 322,444
Investments, etc,, to which £BO,Bll was
added last year, include £158,284 of Com-
monwealth inscribed stock and £40.848 of
shares in other cos., chiefly the Hobson’s
Bay Dock and Engineering Co., thrown off
as a separate concern in 1926. Though the
pup can handle a lot more work than has
come its way, it made a small profit last
year.
The market, doubtful about employment
being found for the whole of the co.'s
tonnage, prices the pound ords. at 19s. 6d.
The profs.—there are 26,000 of them, 6 p.c.
cumulative —are steady at par. Including
the depreciation, etc., reserves, the net asset
backing is £3O 45., profs.; 445. 9d., ords.
Automobile and General Finance Co.
Towards
March, Loss. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
Preliminary exes., £42,709 .. .. 42,709
1927.. Nil 42.709
Added preliminary exes., £6367 . . 49,276
1928.. 23,243 Nil 72,519
Forfeited shares, £3894 .. .. 68£25
Reserves.
4s. per share .( £82,511) struck off .. 13.886
Forfeited shares, £935 .. .. .. 14,821
Transferred to had debts reserve,
£14,821
June, Profit.
1929.. 7,643 6 p.c. = 7043 600 600
1930.. 5,738 5 „ ~ 5809 469
Loss. Deficit.
1931.. 2,831 Nil 2,362
Profit.
1932.. 2,784 Nil 2784 422
Chief lesson to be learnt from the uninspir-
ing statistics in that table is the importance
of management. In two years the co. wh's
short of £72,519 of its then £198.948 of
paid capital—-it set up in Sydney in March,
192*5; share-selling exes, ran off with
£46.001, and bad debts with most of the
balance. Though these debts were insured
against, the terms of the policy had not been
strictly observed. so the insurance co. re-
fused to pay. There’were changes, and the
new board set to work to tidy up. The
uncalled 10s. of each 20s. share was can-
celled ; then 4s. per share (=. £82.5111 was
struck off. reducing paid Capital to £117,282
in 10s. shares paid to 6s.
This cleared the wav for profits, and two
moderate divs. were paid in '29 and '2O.
Then slump restricted lending and brought,
a fresh crop of bad debts, and a loss of
£28.21 showed up in ’.Bl. The moratorium
complicated the problem during the 12
months covered by the latest accounts, when
the money that came in was reinvested in
public securities. Gross, earnings (£9548)
were £1(552 lighter. Exes (£6759. including
£88(5 as against £7777 in the previous year
for bad debts) were pulled back £7267, leav-
ing a profit of £2784, which wiped out all
hut £422 of the deficit at the previous
balance.
The reserve for doubtful debts (£21.469.
up £1(579 during the year) lias been de-
ducted from the book value of the asset,
vhieh is £29.845 lighter than the 1981
figure :
Mar., .line. .tune, .lime,
1928. 1920. 19:11. 1922.
Paid capital. , £ 198,348 & 1 17,383 £117,383 £117,383
Overdraft .. 9.736 13,806 3,973
~Creditors .. 2,213 491 402 . '3Ol
Book debts'.. 148,324 146,378 122,373 92,330
fittings, etc. 437 826 736 706
Investments,
cash, etc. .. 14 15,172 15,931 ,23,347
Foreclosures.. 4,298 4,362 4,362. 4,362
Thus, after wiping out the overdraft
(£>975 at tin l close of accounts in 1981).
£7896 was added to cash and investments,
raising the item to £28.847. But keener
competition for less business at reduced
rates, further cuts in trade discounts and
heavier taxation have reduced prospects of
profitably employing all the c-o.’s funds ■in
the business. So Is. per share (£19,566)
is to be returned in cash, and the uncalled
capital reduced from 4s. to 25., leaving paid
capital at £97,818 in 7s. shares paid to ss.
The market prices the scrip at Bs. Thus,
allowing for return of capital, the investor
who looks for a shade over 6 p.c. on his
money counts on a 24 p.c. diy.. which will
call for £389 less than was netted last year.
Beard, Watson and Co. (Sydney)
To Re-
Profits. r ——Dividends— serves. Deficit.
Ist 2.1 U
Pn IV. Pi e|V. Ord.
; , 7 !’•<•• 8 P.C. S p.c.
•hdy. £ £ £ , £ £ £
1922.. 14.236 2100 4200 Nil 7.936 53,243
8 p.c.
1923.. 42,002 2100 4200 30,518 6,084 47,159
1924.. 50,966 21 Oo 4200 30,518 14.148 33,011
6 p.c.
1.925.. 38,325 2100 4200 22,889 9,136 23,875
1926.. 45.401 2100 4200 22,888 16,303 7.57.2
7 p.c. Resen es.
1927.. 47,382 2100 4200 26,703 14,379 6,807
8 p.c.
1925.. 50,756 2100 4200 30,515 13,938 20,745
6 p.c.
1929.. 34,030 2100 4200 22,901 4.829 25,574
1930.. 7,156 2100 4200 Nil 856 26,430
Loss.
1931.. 25,203 Nil Nil Nil 1227
Deficit.,
1932.. 17,757 Nil Nil Nil 16,530
Amongst those whom the slump lias hit
hardest are traders in high-grade furnitdre
and furnishing drapery; and this one was
not particularly well equipped, either. During
the boom years earnings were irregular:
capricious fashion caused trouble with stocks;
while the edge on competition kept getting
sharper—some of the big department stores
captured a lot of the trade. For the nine
years following the reconstruction of. 1920
(81 ords.. were then handed out for every:
16 previously held, and the pref. divs. were
lifted a. point) the ords. averaged (5.8 p.c.
Since then they have gone hungry, and the
pref. divs. had fallen £lO,OOO in arrears at
July 81.
During the tw T o years to that date there
was an almost complete • stoppage of
home and other building, and the furnishing
that goes with it. Prices keptfalling—
the steepness of the drop was due partly
to the flooding of the market with liquidation
stocks —and the problem of book deb's
became more difficult. So. after taking stocks
in at £56.885 below the 1930 figure, a loss of
£25,203 was registered in 1931, followed by
a loss of £1 i,io4 for the 12. months covered
by the latest accounts The shrinkage in the
hook value of stocks,in this term was £31,600.
leaving the item at its lowest figure for the
last decade. Still, it accounted for 40 p.e.
of the tangible assets when the books
dosed. The losses (£43.060 over the
last two years) left £16.530 of the capital un-
represented- by tangibles at July 81—good-
will. not treated as an asset herein, figures
at £67,660.
When the showrooms were extended bv
the purchase of part of David Jones’s old
premises in ’2B, the board went outside for
most of the money : "
1926. 1929. 1930. 1931. 1932
& £ & £ £'
Capital .. 463,978 464,187 464,187 464,187 464,187
Liabilities 113,005 162,883 141,131 96,531 93,024
Premises.. 132,624 191,592 190,876 190,150 189 425
Plant, etc. 41,726 44,209 47,521 45,534 45 745-
Stocks .. .269,613 298.517 304,992 248,107 216,507
Rook debts 143,961 137,252 85,462 70.051 81 492
Cash, etc. 7,526 7,124 6,047 8,103 7y>ll
Thus, £69,859 has been knocked off the debt
over the last, three years. To do it the
book value, of stocks lias been reduced by
£82,010 and debtors’: balances by £55.760
net. Last year’s loss is again reflected in
a slip of £17.244 in the more or less liquid
surplus (£212,486, including stocks). Book
debts are £14,441 larger than they were a
year ago; and the outlook generally has
improved since the books wqre ruled off.
The market, doubtful of the revival of the
co.’s earning capacity, prices the ords. at Bs. (id.
and the second 8 p.c. prefs. at 10s. There
has been no quote for tlie first 7 per cents,
for some time. The book value of the net
tangible cover, mainly .stocks and premises,
is £l4 Bs. sd. firsts, £7 19s. Id. seconds
and 19s. Id, ords.
Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne)
t ——: —Dividends- s
Pref. Writ- Re-
July, Profits. (S p.e.) Ordinary. ten Off. serves
££‘ £ £ £
1922' . 27,563 2000 10 p.c. = .18,756 2500 24,636
Premiums on new shares, £3llO 27,746
1923. .31,115 4000 lli p.c. - 21,689 33,172
1924. .26.959 4000 10 ~ ~ 20,000 36,131
1925. .26,380 4000 10 ~ „ 20,000 38,511
1926. .26,387 40111 S , 16,000 44,848
1927. .24,765 4000 S , . 16,000 .5000 44,613
■ 1928. .20,'504 400(1 S „ „ 10,000 5000 40,167
1929. .20,435 4000 8 ~ „ 16,000 40,602
1930. . 16,261. 4000 6 ~ „ 12,000 40,863
Loss.
1931'. . 6,027 2000* Nil 32,836
1932.. 9,040 .Nil Nil 23,790
* Half-year.
This eo. specialised in imported lines which
have been placed upon the prohibited list. It
has. of course, b'vn unable to pick up the
turnover in other directions; exchange and
primage have added vastly to the landed
cost of remaining imports, falling prices
have caused trouble with stocks, while
lighter turnover, increased rates and taxes
and the weight of the interest bill have
made it impossible to get exes, back in pro-
portion to the drop in turnover. During
the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts gross earnings (£.">0.834) fell away
£12.200. making the slip £4(5,344 over the
last two years. Exes. (£68,574) were
pulled back £0277 ; so the loss (£0040) was
£3013 greater than the previous year’s. No
di vs. were paid, and the book value of the
reserves in '.support of capital was reduced
to £23.706 at July 31. That is, disregarding
the building • reserve (now £3184). drawn
upon for £2(538 during the year.
During the 13 years to the close of
accounts in 1925. £40.000 of bonus scrip
was scattered and shareholders got a steady
1:0 p.c., with a bit extra in the flusliest period's.
But with aggressive competition and the
swing of the city northward and away from
Flinders-street, trading became more diffi-
cult:' so extensive alterations were made
to the premises. During the eight years
to the end of July, 1031, £120,812 more had
been spent on premises and plant than had
been written off. and £128.040 net was added
to the debt:
1923. 1930. 19,31. 1932.
Paid capital . . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £ 250,000
' Liabilities ... 86,327 228,282 215,2.67 195,627
Property . . 106,000 244,000 244,000 244,000
Plant, etc. , . 46,188 39,000 38,000 37,000
Stock.. .. 153,776 185,051 165,353 141,956
Book debt; .. 69.833 68,794 56,271 49,350
Cash.. .. 8,202 300 300 300
Last year the book value of stocks and
debtors’ balances was reduced by £30,315.
while £5600 was snipped- off the mortgage
(£113,000), £12.237 off the overdraft
(£4(5.003) and £2343 off the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors. That left the debt
£4021 in excess of more or less liquids,
including stocks; a slip, of £10,078 during
the twelvemonth.
Business improved toward the close of
accounts, and the strengthening of world
prices and the decision of the Federal Gov
ernment to repeal prohibitions against
Britain, remove- surcharges and reduce or
remove primage have further brightened
the outlook generally. But the market,
not sure that the co. will recover it*
lost trade, prices the pound ords. at Bs.
The return at that figure would be 6.2 p.e.
on a 2-J- p.c. div. basis. The S p.c. cum.
profs, (there are 50,000 of them) seldom
come on to the market. Net tangible cover
(book value) is £5 9s. 6d. for 'the' profs,,
and 225. 4d. for the ords.
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co.
Not To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1924.. 36,637 5 p.c. = 32,500 4137 45,899
1925.. 35,857 5 „ „ 32,500 3357 49,256
1926.. 33,822 5 „ 32,500 1322 50,578
1927.. 40,695 5 „ „ 32,500 8195 58,773
1928.. 29,416 5 „ 32,500 55 689
1929.. .31,179 5 „ 32,500 ■ 54,368
1930.. 794 Nil 794 55,162
1931.. 6,026 Nil 6626 61,788
1932. . 8,358 2 p.c. = 13,000 57,140
The change of Government in N. 8. Wales,
which should mean a more rational outlook
towards non-paying State enterprises, such
as the Walsh Island dockyard, has given
shareholders in this co. new hope. Up to
1920 shareholders in the present co.. which
in 1875 took over the Balmain Dock, estab-
lished by T. S. Mort in 1854,. averaged less
than 7 p.e. p.a., partly because of liberal
allowances for depreciation. There had been
a small one-in-four bonus issue early in the
piece; and in 1920 it was decided that assets
were much undervalued, so a five-for-eight
gift issue was handed ■ out, mostly from
allowances for wear and; tear made prior to
1914.
Owing to competition from the Cockatoo
(Federal) and Walsh Island docks, and
strikes on the waterfront, shareholders
have averaged 4.3 p.c, since 1920. The
heavy slump in shipping and competition in
the general and electrical engineering trades
affected earnings over the last three years.
Profits for the triennium to .Tune 30 aggre-
gated 2.3 p.c. on capital. Most of it was
earned during the 12 months covered by tin 1
latest accounts. The 2 p.c. div. surprised
the market, and the price of the scrip
( limbed from 3s. to over 6s. in a few days.
The accounts tell no more than they have
to :
,1929. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £650,000 £650,000 £650,000 £ 650,000
Debentures .. 168,735 167,965 168,030 168,030
Creditors, .. 114,833 105,026 6.8,658 63,480
Freeholds, plant
and stocks . . 896,025 903,631 903,005 903,938
Debtors and
work .. 107,249 73,610 44,555 46,808
Cash .. .. 912 912 917 917
Altogether there are two graving and four
floating docks, four slips and six different
engineering branches (including a heavy
electrical department), besides brass- and
iron-foundries. These items and the co.’s
freeholds and stocks are blanketed at
£903,938, up £933 during the year. The
debtors and work item, which slipped
£62,694 in the two years to 1931, improved
£2253 during the last 12 months. The out-
side debt was reduced by £5172. The exact
liquid position depends on the figure at
which .stocks have been taken in.
Interest-reduction legislation brought a
saving of £2646 p.a. on the debenture debt
(“Wild Cat" continued on page IQ .)


m
R.
R
©
r a
i
>- . s
?: /
n
i R
>
:¥ftWJSSSsSsfe®!:W:sS¥Sa?<
A
ttAfovauv.
A-rA-
Cork, and Plain'the
Twa/n
Th is Modern Lass
Finds Cork, and Plain
A most attractive pair;
Of all her swain
The Capstan Twain
Have quite the smartestair
lO to 1 it’s a
CAPSTAN
NOW Cork Tipped and Plain
«5»
a*
io
10/tl'-
Also m Round Hermetically
Sealed Airtight Tins of 50
and in Boxes of 50 ond
100.


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith. Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House. Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
# * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained ; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coi.USON, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Coil i son and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney ; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.—Advt.
LARGE CAPITAL AVAILABLE.—I have London
Capital available for Proved Gold Properties, also
Capital to develop. Inspection made in any part of
Commonwealth. Reply with some details to
“London,” c/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins-
street, Melbourne, Cl. —Advt.
AMP
'a sure friend
in uncertain times
_
SOCIETY
*7.
3
•*«
£
.5
\
13T;’
V v
£llO5 for & trip abroad
by investing 26/- > month
AY/HEN this happy old couple had been married a
** year, they did what many another wise couple
has done; they took out an A.M.P. policy to provide
the money to pay off the mortgage on the house they
built. They were then 24 years of age with all life’s
uncertainties ahead of them. They took out a Table J
policy for £6OO payable when the husband reached
60. The cost was £7/16/6 a half-year or, roughly,
26/- a month.
And look how the little investment has panned out!
The mortgage has been paid off long ago out of other
savings and, a month or so ago, they drew £llO5.
They went straight off to see the England of their
dreams, and to reap a full reward for their wisdom and
long-sightedness.
Reader! What about it? Couldn’t you make this
investment to your great satisfaction and contentment?
Tell us your age, and we shall show you how little it
will cost. Call at our nearest office, or write. Don t
delay. After your next birthday it will cost you more.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
F. F. McBRYDE,
Assistant General Manager.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Actuary.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices throughout All States.
(£168,030, now carrying 5.425 p.c.). But
a large number of overseas and inter-State
ships are tied up, and taxation is burden-
some, though there are prospects of slight
relief. Business in the engineering depart-
ments has been fairly steady, but prices
are at bedrock. Much will depend upon the
extent to which Government dockyards con-
tinue to be subsidised with taxpayers’
money.
At 6s. tire scrip returns 6.7 p.c. on a 2 p.c.
div. basis. The backing amounts to 21s.
9d. per share in net tangibles, mainly plant,
<‘tc., worth what it can earn.
Keep Macpherson Liquidation
All creditors, both secured and unsecured,
have now been paid in full, and cash amount-
ing to £3268 remains in the bank. Sundry
debtors outstanding and a handful of other
assets are expected to realise £12,325 ; thus
a return of about 4s. in the £1 on tin'
£75,000 of prof, capital seems likely, with
a first distribution of a shilling immediately.
Ordinary shareholders will get, nothing.
Exchange and Gold-mining
What effect a: Quid a pill in exchange
have upon the market for the scrip of gold-
mining cos. registered in London and oper-
ating in Australia, such as Wilunat —1080.
If not offset by other factors, such as new
developments, better assays, a reduction in
operating costs or depreciation of sterling, a
drop in the buying rate Australia/London
would reduce, the price paid for gold in Aus-
tralian notes, and therefore affect the revenue
of local gold-mining cos. Thus the price of
the scrip could be expected to ease according
to the extent to which revenue was affected.
Appreciation of the value of sterling in
terms of the dollar would also have the same
effect. Within the limits stated, the fol-
lowing table shows the effect of fluctuations
in the exchanges upon the sterling and
Australian value of fine gold :
Sterling Value. Australian Value Fine
Dollar Fine Gold when £lOO Sterling Equals
Kxchange. Gold. £I2SA. £l2 0 A. £IISA.
4.02 £5 2 10 £6 8 4 £6 3 5 £5 18 3
3.89 5 6 2 6 12 9 6 7 5 6 2 1
3.80 5 8 9 6 15 11 6 10 6 6 5 1
3.71 5 11 3 6 19 2 6 13 6 6 7 11
3.60 5 14 8 7 3 4 6 17 7 6 11 10
3.50 5 18 1 7 7 7 7 1 8 6 15 9
3.48 5 18 11 7 8 8 7 2 8 6 16 9
No allowance has been made for handling,
freight and insurance charges, which aggre-
gate about 1 i p.c. at the moment. The
statutory price of fine gold is £4 4s. ll+d.
an ounce. Last month the metal averaged
£5 18s. 6d. in London. The price declared
by the Commonwealth Bank on August 26
was £7 7s. 3d. Thus, in Australian cur-
roncy, the exchanges have added over £3
per ounce (more than 75 p.c.) to the statu-
tory price. Assuming that the sterling
value of the metal remained steady at £5
18s. lid., a fall of £5 per cent, in the
present Australian, price of sterling would
mean a drop of 6s. per ounce (Australian
currency) in the price of fine gold, or a
drop of 11s. lid. per ounce if the exchange
fell to £ll5 . A. equals £3OO 8. However,
should sterling appreciate to 4.02 dollars to
the pound, and at the same time the Aus-
tralian price of sterling improve to £ll5
A. equals £lOO S.. then the drop in the
price of gold would be 30s. sd. per ounce
(Australian currency). On the basis of
Wiluna’s recoveries for June (83360 z.
gold), a drop of 30s. sd. per ounce would
mean a shrinkage of over £152,000 per
annum in revenue. Incidentally, in its
monthly returns Wiluna takes gold into
account at the sterling and not. the Aus-
tralian price; working exes, are stated in
Australian currency. All that leaves out of
the reckoning the gold bounty, paid by the
Commonwealth Government. At the end
of 1930 this was fixed at £1 per fine ounce
on all gold won in excess of 451.4320 z.,
which was the average production for the
three years to the end of 1930. Payment
was to be made in Australian notes for 10
years from the beginning of 1931. Six
months later the bounty was reduced to 10s.
per fine ounce, with a proviso for an in-
crease of Is. per ounce for every fall of
3 p;c. in exchange. It is now proposed
to wipe out the bounty altogether. With
the exchanges as they are the industry here
can well afford to forego the bounty. But
that is a flimsy pretext for the arbitrary
use of legislative power to cancel a con-
tract.
At Sandy Creek, Mt. Spurgeon (Q.), a
promising alluvial tin deposit is being
developed at a height of 3700 ft. above sea
level. Shallow wash, 2ft. thick, is claimed
to show an average of 51b. tin oxide per
cubic yard over an area of five acres. The
boring of an area 2 chains wide and 40
chains long is also expected to give good
results. The wash, which lies on a granite
bottom, is free from large boulders and
easily treated. ,
!•: -U * *
Numerous deep leads in the Clermont dis-
trict (Q.) are yielding small quantities of
gold, 80oz. being recovered during July.. At
Miclere good returns have been obtained from
wash lying on slates at a depth of 117 ft. At
Blister Hill wash lOin. thick has been
located at 21ft., and has yielded up to 12oz.
per ton. In the Southern Cross area two
reefs are being developed—one has a width
of Ift. oyer a length of 260 ft.; assays show
up to 25dwt. per ton.
“Ben Warin” : The latest crushing of 37
tons from the Sunrise at Lolworth Creek
(N.Q.) yielded 146 ounces. The shaft is
down 54ft., and driving has reached
40ft. About 50 inhabitants are on the field,
arid the quarters of the older established
have assumed quite a pretentious appear-
ance. The wells, a quarter of a mile-up
the creek, are expected to provide all the
water, required. Stampers are on the field,
which has produced OOOoz. within a year,
and several leaseholders are negotiating for
necessary capital.
$ ❖ # ❖
Alluvial mining at Bendigo is being rapidly
extended. Large areas along the creeks at
Kangaroo Flat, Crusoe, New Zealand Gully
and Harden Gully have been taken up by
parties for sluicing. What is believed to
he the richer portions of all this ground were
worked over 70 years ago; still, considerable
areas remain untreated. Owing to the greatly
improved yields from the Hercules, the
August production of all Bendigo cos. was
15770 z. compared with 10750 z. in .July.
An enormous deposit of high grade mag-
nesite was found at Smithton (Tas.) during
a recent geological survey by the Mines
Department. The mineral outcrops along
the Duck River, and forms the bedrock of
an area live miles long and three miles wide.
The deposit is believed to be the most ex-
tensive in the . Commonwealth, being much
larger than the occurrences at Attunga and
Fifield (N.S.W.) and near Kalgoorlie. Mag-
nesite is used as a refractory in electric and
iron blast furnaces, in the manufacture 01
Epsom salts and in the sulphite process of
paper-pulp production. In view of the pos-
sible manufacture of paper pulp near Burnio
(Tas.), the find is important.
During the year ended .Tune 30 Bake View
and Star repaid all it owed to New Consoli-
dated Goldfields (about £61,000) and wiped
off half of the £56,000 loan guaranteed by
the Westralian Government. The plant,
now treating over 35.000 tons monthly, win
handle upwards of 45,000 tons as soon as
the extra power equipment, which is being
installed at a cost of about £15,000, is ready.
Rumors are that New Consolidated wih
exercise its option over 100.000 shares very
shortly, and that divs., after a lapse of 11
years, will be resumed.
According to private advices, V ilunas
have had a heavy turnover on the London
Stock Exchange lately. Blocks of 5000
shares have been snapped by speculators
associated with Canadian and New York
concerns.
Boulder Perseverance’s annual roll-up in
Londoii was rather lively. A dissatisfied
section of shareholders twitted the board
with having bungled the profit-sharing note
issue. At the conclusion of the argument
a motion for the re-election of Protheroe
Jones, who assisted in launching the issue,
and who had been co-opted to the board dur-
ing the year, was submitted. A show of hands
resulted in 24 for and 24 against; chair-
man Bell refused to give a casting vote, and,
on putting the motion again, declared it
carried ,by 26 to 24.
There has receiitly been a scramble for
lease's and prospecting areas in and around
Kalgoorlie and Boulder. Some previously
considered worthless are now described as
good things; several have been palmed off
on Eastern States cos., while others are
still for sale. Few have any real value, even
with gold at its present enhanced price.
Three erushings totalling 91 tons from the
Birthday Gift, Brown Hill, Kalgoorlie. have
been put through the Perseverance mill for
an average of 23dwt. per ton. On an adjoin-
ing lease a lode has been proved for IS
chains, and two shafts have been sunk to
50ft., one in 37dwt. stuff. The Brown’s
Reward people have taken a 12 months’ work-
ing option over this new find.
* * * *
A patch of rich stuff has been met with in
the Eureka Mine, Lake, Austin. Cue (W.A.).
where a picked parcel of 8001 b. yielded
9710 z., and 35 tons was crushed for 2200 z.
The Eureka was acquired by Mainland
Consols in 1930.
* * * *
New Guinea Gold. Exploitations has ex-
tended to Maoriland, where interests in the
Maerewhenua and Livingstone goldfields
have been acquired. These two areas, in the
South Island, have shown good sluicing
returns in the past, but lack of capital ham-
pered development.
Dunedin (Otago, M.L.) interests are trying
to raise £16,000 in 2s. shares to start the
Adams Flat G. M. Co. The area to be
worked forms part of the Tuapeka alluvial
deposits, including Gabriel’s Gully, where
sluicing cos. have done well in the past.
Water shortage has cut out hydraulicking, but
cheap electric power should make mining
easier. The co. proposes to take up 200
acres, containing some 10 million cubic yards,
said to be worth 2s. per yard.
During the year ended May 31. Alexander
Mines, Reefton (M.L.), milled 4602 tons of
ore for a return of 51700 z., which realised
£28.258. After writing off £6012, a profit
of £13.274 remained. Developments are en-
couraging; on No. 3 level a 4ft. wide lode
has been driven on for 266 ft., with ore assay-
ing over loz. per ton.
Maoriland’s gold exports for the year ended
June 30; 1932, were 167,5150 z., valued at
£797.476, or 40.5000 z. more than for the
last half of 1931.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Property valued at £lOOO. Insured for
£5OO. In the event of total loss would £5OO
he recoverable from insurance co.? If not,
why, and on what basis would a lesser
amount be arrived at? —1970.
If the insurance was effected under a non-
average policy, the full £5OO would be paid.
If it was declared subject to average, the
amount payable by the insurance co. would
be £250. With average the insured is his
own insurer for the difference between the
amount insured for (£500) and the actual
value of the property (£1000). That is to
say, he is taking one half of the risk and
has. therefore, to bear one half of the loss.
The aterage clause always applies to poli
cies covering in one amount two or more
buildings forming separate risks; also to
insurances on pi'operty in the open air (such
as timber in yards), and usually to policies
on the contents of warehouses and other
large business premises.
(1) Would fossicking on the old Taloom
goldfield provide a living? (2) Row long
has the field been worked? (3) Any finds
of note ? (4) Reefs discovered an d worked ?
(5) Any better place within 50 miles of
T a,loom? —1630.
(1) Work there is mostly confined to turn-
ing over old ground; no more than tucker
money should be looked for. The field covers
a large area of auriferous country, including
many creeks and gullies; it is possible that
small areas, from which,payable returns may
be obtained, have boon overlooked. Further
information is contained in the “Guide for
the Use of Prospectors in N.5.W.,” obtain-
able from the Department of Mines, price 25.,
postage 2d. (2) First worked in 1886. (3)
No. (4) Small reefs discovered, but not
worked to any extent. (5) Don’t know ot
any.
What is the composition, crystal struc-
ture, etc'., of the mineral fahl 0re? —1939.
Fahl ore. fahlerz, tetrahedrite or grey
copper ore may be regarded as cuprous sul-
phide with more or less copper replaced by
iron, zinc and mercury and mixed with
arsenic or antimony sulphide. Gold and
silver are also usually present. It is
an iron-black or steel-grey mineral occurring
in tetrahedral crystals belonging to the cubic
system. It. is rarely worked for copper
alone on account of the difficulty of eliminat-
ing arsenic.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
T.: If a cover note has been issued, and a fire
occurs before the cover expires, then the co. is
liable in terms of the contract, notwithstanding that
the premium may not have been paid prior to the
actual date of the fire V.S.C.: (1) A judicious
spread; results will depend upon stocks selected.
(2) Know nothing of it. Can you supply balance-
sheet?. .. .H.F.E.: Doubtful. See B. 24/8/’32....
C.8.R.: No N.G.H.: Hold 1,2, 5 and 7
Gordon: (I) Detailed costs not given in published
estimates. Labor troubles were largely responsible
for the difficulties of the past. (2) Jiamsay and
Treganowan are to take the entire output of spirit
at Is. 3d. a gallon, and of crudes at 3d. a gallon.
(3) Not much. (4) Secured an option to purchase
for £35,000, to be paid out of shave capital, (a)
No. (6) Unknown, except as stated in prospectus,
which is not so full as it ought to be on this
point. (7) No; whatever cash has been spent is
to be repaid.... H.A.W.: There’s not much on which
to pick and choose between Nos. 1, 2 and 6; No-.
4, 3 and 5 are less attractive, especially No. 5
E.J.A.: See B. 21/10/’3l S.W.A.: See B. G/7/’32.
. ...A.Z.: (1) All depends on the basis of recon-
struction, which is not yet known. (2) Result-
likely to fluctuate, but show promises to turn out
all right in the long run EjG.M.; No.


THE SOAP-BOX
An attempt to answer some of the questions asked by correspondents.
A National Dividend
Why cannot the Commonwealth pay every
person in Australia £5 for a start and repeat
the dose as soon as it appears to be effect-
ing a cure and has otherwise no ill effects?
As you have pointed out more than once, the
shops are full of goods for consumption; we
want them and only lack of money prevents
ns from buying them. Work is not the
solution of our problem. Work would pro-
duce more goods. The dole makes no im-
pression on it. The £15,0(H),000 for unem-
ployment relief sjiread over three years and
bearing interest at 5 p.c. is an insult to the
living Australian and a little added to the
burden his children will be asked to bear.
The original and still the true use of money
is to facilitate the movement of goods to the
consumer, so that the empty stomach may
be tilled and the bare back clothed. Let us
have some, then —£s each for a start. No
doubt some of the fivers would go to the
tin hares and the State lottery. But prac-
tically the whole 33 millions would go into
industry via consumption. —M. V. Knowles
(Q.).
There would be, say, 33 millions more
notes in circulation. The cautious trader
would shake his head and prefer to keep his
goods. Tens of thousands of German shop-
keepers, he knows, fell in that way, and
•sold themselves poor”—got rid of goods
for paper with which they could not replace
those goods. The banks wouldn’t want the
notes, so there would be a forced circulation,
and that means the value of the notes would
fall. Prices, in other words, would rise;
the merchant to cover the risk of further
depreciation would further advance his
prices; wages would have to be increased to
correspond. People with fixed incomes would
find their value shrinking; fixed debts (mort-
gages, etc.) would, if the process went on,
be wiped out. Professor Bonn summed up.
wliat the issue of millions of notes does:
“It acts as a bar to imports, making the
financing of them difficult. It ruins the
creditor class. It destroys existing capital
and makes the formation of new capital im-
possible, inasmuch as the immediate spend-
ing of income is the best way of getting' a
real benefit from one’s efforts. In that way
it leads to over-consumption in an impover-
ished country. It drives away capital to
foreign countries, investment in foreign bills
or securities being the only safeguard against
depreciation. It destroys a nation’s foreign
credit. It deteriorates a nation’s morals
by making business a sort of gambling.”
It isn’t a pretty picture. And it isn’t drawn
from fancy. It is a photograph of what
happened in half a dozen European coun-
tries.
Doubling the Value of Money
If all costs, wages, salaries, rents, etc.,
were halved throughout Australia, would not
the value of the Australian £ be doubled?
If that is so, there would be double the
money there is now in Australia, and the
industries that, Australia depends upon
would immediately jump into a thriving
condition, absorbing the unemployed and
paying handsome revenue into the Govern-
ments, where now they are getting next to
nothing. —M.C. (Vic.).
This proposition reaches The Bulletin
seven days a week. The idea, of course, is
t 0 make the Australian £ twice as valuable
while leaving the English £ where it is—we
can, of course, have no command over the
latter. Therefore we should buy our
labor, materials, etc., on the 10s. basis and
sell the proceeds overseas on the 20s. basis.
That ought to make us rich pretty quick.
An Australian woollen mill wants a few
hundred bales of wool. Everything being
halved, of course the price of this, wool —the
woollen mill’s material —must be halved, too.
So the Australian buyer will offer, .say, 4d.
Will the overseas buyer offer more? If he
will, then how can the Australian miller
get liis supplies? And if he can’t get his
supplies, then obviously he must close down.
So must the flour-miller, and the tanner and
the boot factory. As a matter of fact, they
wouldn’t close down. Our prices being halved
—our £, in other words, being made £2 —ex-
change would at once respond. It would cost
£2OO in England to buy what would sell for
£lOO in Australia, assuming that exchange
was at par previously. Thus £lOO raised by
taxation in Australia would pay £2OO of
interest in England. But (and here is the
catch) the overseas buyer of our wool and
other products would bid on the basis of
£1 in Australia being worth £2 in England.
In other words, just as he can afford to
increase his bids now by 25 p.c. because
the £ is worth less in Australia than it is
in England, so then he would reduce his bids
bv 50 p.c., because our £ would be worth
£2 in England. If, however, the exchange
did not respond—that is to say, if, though
we had halved our costs (wages, material,
etc.), our £ was still worth only as much as
an English £, then obviously, since our taxes
would have to be halved, too, we should
have_ to double the rate of tax in order to
get in enough to pay the foreign creditor.
And, coming close home, Heaven only knows
how The Bulletin would pay the English
paper mill if it sold itself for 3d. and the
Australian 3d. wasn’t worth more’than 3d-
in England.
Middle Money
Not many years ago hides were valuable.
A farmer recently took a splendid cowhide
to the buyers and received 5 s Calf skins
were bought for Is. and 2s. (Id. Now
the same farmer buys a pair of working
boots for 19s. 6 d. and ealfhidc boots for
2os. He always paid, those prices for foot-
ivear,. even when he received big money for
his hides. Fat cattle are bought for a song
in these parts Farmers say 'it pays better
to feed them, to the swine. Yet the prices
of retail beef run high — just, as high as ever.
But a short time ago members of my pro-
fession suffered a, cut, of 10s. a, week, repre-
senting, it was alleged, the fall in the cost
of hung. I know who gets the “ cuts ,” but
who gets the profits? —A. F. S (O )
nn^- h t SOm , C townships where the
k? f tn 1 A g ha ? been allowed to fall;
but the Queensland Bureau of Statistics
shows that in Brisbane the cost of 12
articles of food—a household list- —fell from
28s. 6d. in May, 1929, to 225. Bd. in May.
1932; and house-rent which cost 18s. 7d.
at the earlier date costs 14s. 2d. at the
later date. Unfortunately it does not follow
that, because a hide can be bought for ss.
(or much less than it used to) and a pair
of boots costs 19s. (the same as it used
to), somebody is making profits. Wages and
freight and taxes have to be paid. The Bureau
of Statistics shows that in Queensland the
man in full work was £ll better off in the
purchasing power of his wages in 1931 than
in 1929 ; and wages, rents, interest and taxes
account for most of the vast difference
between cost of raw material and price of
finished product. As for profits, 70 Queens-
land cos., comprising every one of any con-
sequence. showed a reduction of profits from
£1,276,047 in 1929 to £677,216 in 1931;
in the latter year their profit averaged only
3.6 p.c. of their net assets. You can find
the tables from which these figures are
drawn in Professor Brigden’s valuable little
book, “Economic News.”
Mortgages and Interest Rates
You suggest that strictly the mortgagee
has accepted a low rate of interest for the
sake of security, and, therefore, his interest
in the property should, not share in the
general devaluation. But is this really the
last word? Financial institutions and
others do not lend money indiscriminately.
They value the security most carefully and
then advance from 70 p.c. to 80 p.c. of
their valuation. Was it not just as much
an error of judgment on the port of the, man
who found the money to finance the pur-
chase of, say, a grazing property at peak
prices, as it was on the part of the bor-
rower? And is it not just that he should
share with the borrower, in part, at any
rate, the terrific fall in values? —J. S. P.
(N.S.W.).
If the lender is expected to share in the
risks of loss, without sharing in the chances
of gain, nothing is surer than that the rate
of interest on these securities will move
up. The use of all money is worth approxi-
mately the same amount at the one time;
the tremendous difference in the rates of
interest is really the varying payment for
risks added to the charge for the simple use
of the money.
The Farmer and Prices
We farmers do not see why the tariff
should he used to bolster up city wages to a
figure so greatly in excess of what we arc
able to pay our own men. , The prices we
obtain for our products have fallen to pre-
war levels or lower • and we are supplying
foodstuffs and raw materials to the city
workers at those low levels. That being so.
we sec no sufficient reason why the prices of
the locally-manufactured goods we are com-
pelled to buy should not fall correspondingly.
Therefore are we not right in agitating to
have the exchange rate raised, mainly as a
not entirely satisfactory substitute for the
straight-forward course we would prefer? —
Jas. Macansii (Q.).
There is one horrible reason why rural and
non-rural wages don’t move in harmony; and
nobody can blame The Bulletin for not
having often enough pointed it out. The
primary producer—the wheat man especially
—is in competition with the cheapest labor
in the world ; also he is in a business whose
production has been accelerated far beyond
the world’s capacity to absorb it. If there
were four saddlers in a country town and
work for 6nly one, so that the four averaged
only 3s. a day, what should we say if the
saddlers went to their bootmaker and said,
“We are only making 3s. a day each. You
must work for us on the same basis”? Ad-
mittedly it would be terribly hard for the
saddlers; admittedly it is terribly hard for
the farmers. But they must realise that
the industrialists have their point of view
also. What is a fair thing is that the
prices of industrial goods should fall in
conformity with the cost of living. The
primary producer ought to have the benefit
of that; and if the tariff is being made use
of to prevent him getting it, the tariff should
be “reviewed.” This is no time for profiteer-
ing, by either manufacturers or their em-
ployees. And it is no time when the tariff
should shelter profiteering.
Notes for Gold
Why not give £lO an ounce for all new
gold produced, and thereby reopen all the
goldmines now unpayable and employ the
miners—the Government to issue notes in
payment of all new gold? —W. J. B.
(N.S.W.).
This is another plan for increasing the
note issue. Brown, the miner, brings in an
ounce of gold, worth, say, £4. That could
be shipped to London and (assuming ster-
ling was at par) £4 worth of goods would
be sent to Australia for it. We would thus
have £6 in notes represented by nothing
whatever. Repeat that process a few million
times, and you would have millions of un-
backed notes in circulation. You would take
a few to the bank. They would accept them
perhaps on current account, but they would
have no use for them on fixed deposit. Then
you would begin to argue that there was no
fun in keeping notes earning nothing, especi-
ally as there was talk of inflation, and you
would try to buy something with them. You
would, however, find that other people had
more of these notes than they knew what
to do with —notes that had no backing
whatever —and you would start offering them
at a discount; in other words, you would
give three of them for a pair of boots instead
of two. Gradually prices would thus creep
up, until the man who got. 10 notes for his
ounce of gold would be no better off than
he used to be when he got only four.
Banks and Deposits
In “ Batiks and Their Clients'’ you said
that hanks could do no more \in regard to
mortgaged properties] than their depositors
would allow them to. You also say—on the
next page—that the hanks hare financed
Australia’s Government deficits to the ex-
tent of £82,315,000 *in the last four years.
Would I he right in assuming that the hank
deposits have been reduced by that amount
within the last four years? —P. J. M. (Q.).
No, certainly not. Smith has made a deposit,
which enables the bank to lend £l.OOO to a
Government to “finance a deficit,” as it is
called. Actually, the bank has advanced
the Government £lOOO to pay, say, the
policemen’s wages. But those wages go to
the shops, and the shopkeepers bank the
money, or pay their landlord, and the land-
lord makes another fixed deposit. What The
Bulletin said was that the bulk of the
deposit money had been advanced to bor-
rowers, and the banks could not write off,
say, a third of the loans without first get-
ting the dejmsitors to agree to accept, say,
15s. in the £.
WHO FOUNDED MELBOURNE?
"It is estimated that there are over 18,000 terrace houses in the metropolitan area, the majority of which are unfit to live in.”
—Medical Witness.
SHADES OF FAWKNER AND BATMAN (together): “You can have it, John.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK. ,
JtOYAi/;....'..,;.... A “Saint Joan”
Her Majesty's “Bitter Sweet”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Grand Opera
King's “Dr. Pygmalion”
State Movies and Talkies
- •— J ♦
One Up Against the Admiralty
Sydney’s most interesting show of last
week was a judicial trial, staged on a ferry-
boat a little west of the Harbor Bridge, on
whose decks were scientists'and other experts,
assembled as a special jury. The case to be
tried arose out of a subsection in the British
Admiralty's Diving Manual, Table 11, which
decrees that a diver descending to a depth
of 28 fathoms and remaining there for one
hour must occupy in his ascent to t-he sur-
face one hour and 41 minutes. No penalty is
stated, but the jury knew very well-that
death is implied. The Navy was represented
by Surgeon-Commander Scott Mackenzie, and
a watching brief was held by Professors
Vonwiller and Priestley, of Sydney Uni.,
eminent practitioners of the laws of , physics
and of physiology respectively. A Macquare -
st reet practitioner assisted Prof. Priestley.
Gear and appliances,', were inspected' by
persons well versed in the more vulgar
aspects of deep-sea diving. The Bulletin
went along to supply the open mind.
The person selected to test the validity of
the Admiralty's ruling was an ex-naval rating.
The medical section of the’jury, having ascer-
tained by exhaustive tests that this very un-
concerned Australian was alive, put identi-
fying marks upon him to stave off any
attempts at substitution. A large metal pot
to which were attached a variety of valves
“Communing with the fishes and the silt.”
and turncocks was then placed upon the
subject’s head, his body was encased in a
rubber suit, and. though it was raining
heavily at the time, he was thrust out of the
ship and constrained to slide down a rope
which was tethered by a lead plummet to
the bottom of the harbor, at that spot, so
the Harbor-master certified, 165 feet distant
from the surface. A telephone-wire was
attached to the subject’s head-piece, but the
jury were not allowed to hear what he said
to his principals. It was not evidence, and,
Australians being what they arc, it quite
possibly was something worse. It seemed
perfectly clear that the subject must be at
the bottom of the harbor, since a vast quan-
tity of rope and rubber-tubing to which he
was tethered had been paid out, and there
was nowhere else for him to go, but to
remove any lingering doubts little linen bags
were sent down to him. These he obligingly
filled with silt and sent back, demonstrating
contact with the soil. For an hour they
left him there, communing with the fishes
and the silt, while two strong men pumped
air down his tube. Then they hauled him up
as quickly as they were able—the journey
occupied about four minutes —and according
to the Admiralty rule he was dead by odds
of 101 to 4. Instead of which he climbed
aboard as b"ukl.v as liis 201 b. boots would
let him, d a happy smile through the
porthole in nis pot, and remarked, when
released from his quaint attire, that the tide
on the bottom was a fair cow. The medical
gents identified him as the same corpus
that was consigned to the deep, and, though
convinced on prim, a facie evidence that he
was dead, failed to discover in him any
symptoms of that condition, returning the
Scottish verdict of “not proven.” The non-
medical gents, though the experience clashed
“The more vulgar aspects of deep-sea
diving."
with their most cherished notions of diving
etiquette, admitted frankly that there must
be something in it, which was very, handsome
of them."
The subject’s apparently successful, de-
fiance of , the ! Admiralty was . ascribed : to.
the fact that he wore a new sort of diving-
dress, invented by E. R. Clifford and J.
Cantor, of Sydney. The principle on which
it works isn’t divulged. It is alleged that it
avoids all the disabilities under which divers
suffer when they attempt to exceed the pre-
sent practicable limit of depth—now, as it
Murray and Walton, in “Pleasure Bound,"
at Sydney Cri.
has been for 60 years, about 200 ft. Scienti- 1
finally, as any professor of physics or
anatomy will tell you, that’s flatly impossible.
But it is also flatly impossible that that
diver isn’t dead —and he isn’t dead!
Sydney’s New Rep. Soc. waxed bold last
week and presented at- its theatre in Kent-
street (formerly a church) a play which was
banned in New York and restricted to priv-
ate representations in London, and, which
startled even. Paris. Admission- was confined
to members of the society, and a police play-
taster was in attendance throughout the per-
formance, which was given behind locked
doors. The play, Simon Gantillon’s “Maya,”
which deals with the life of the street-
walkers of Marseilles, was presented in an
American translation. - The scenes, are , studi-
ously devoid of lewdness, paradoxical though
this may appear, and Scott Alexander’s
players did the thing well, particularly Marie
Terry in the title-role. She never overacted.
Leal Dearsley, Helen Kent, Sue Cooper, May
Baker and Dorothy Whiteley furnished sound
characterisations. William Gates, as the sailor
in the prologue ; J. O. Harvey, as a Norwegian
who grew childish at the sight of a tomato;
Anatol Rodio, as an Italian interpreter;
John Vincent, as a wharf-hand; Keith
Cribb, as a colored barman; Gilbert Uns-
worth, a.s a ship’s bandmaster; and Hugh
Carlsson, as a street urchin, were outstand-
ing among the men.
Y Y Y
The New Sydney Rep. Soc. celebrated
its first anniversary with a bright pro-
gramme on Saturday night. Songs and
dancing, with a clever sketch by Scott Alex-
ander and his wife, filled the first part of
the bill, the evening winding up with a re-
vival of “ ’Phone for the Doctor.”
Ella Shields, at Sydney Cri.
That very intelligent band of amateurs col-
lected by; Doris Fitton under' the Indepen-
dent Theatre ‘banner, made good use. of its
resources in a performance of Louis N.
Parker's play “Disraeli” at the Sydney
Savoy dri Saturday. -The plav is twisted
history, but, good theatrical • stuff. As in the
screen version, Dizzy is made to bulldoze the
governor of tile Bank of England into financ-
ing i lie Suez' Canal purchase, an incident
which didn’t happen, but which wits'accepted
as gospel truth by N.S.W. arid ’Queensland
Lartor politicians, who thought it must be
true or/Hollywood wouldn’t sponsor it. The
task of presenting the .Tew was undertaken
by Ellis Price, a newcomer to the Savoy,
who did remarkably well. Ken rick Hudson,
Nelson Beresford, Edward - Howell anti
Arthur Lane provided gbbd male support,
and Patricia Minohin. Tlierese Desmond .-Nell
Douglas Graham and Dulcie Cohen Ayere all
nicely placed in the picture.
produced/ the play' and Don Finley„..de,signed
the scefies. ' ,
Y Y Y
"Pleasure Bound.”- Frank Neil’s revue at
Sydney Cri., has, as commander-in-chief of
the mirthmakers the small, portly, solemn-
faced George Wallace. Wallace can sing
and dance, and is able to make himself
equally popular with stalls, circle arid
gallery. Athol Tier is first lieutenant in
onslaught ,on gloom, and Arthur Clarke.
Robert-Roberts. Billy Maloney and Arthur
Rutterworth ..are ...able subalterns. Ella
Shields, who was rather badly hurt at the
matinee performance on Saturday and faced
.the;night audience With, stitches, in her. Scalp,
put over “Burlington Bertie” and some
new numbers with all her usual polish. At
the finish she appears in feminine garb and
surprises those who have known her only
as a male impersonator. Miriam Lester trills
sweetly about dream lovers, rose gardens
and jungle maidens, and Yvonne Barnard
gets around with sprightliness as art Lgyp-
tianess, despite her plumpness, and produces
notes of prodigious altitude. The Sunshine
Girls provide many legful interludes.
The sun of opera is declining towards the
horizon of oblivion at Melb. Royal. A
general impression of the season is that
musical achievement has fallen somewhat
short of previous seasons, and there has
been a tendency to conceal the fact by dis-
plays of histrionic rather than musical emo-
tion. The-over-emphasis of dramatic con-
ventions, due to the performers substituting
exaggeration of traditional behavior for
genuine feeling,, has accustomed audiences
to spectacles so remote from reality that l
the. inmates of a lunatic, asylum were lot
loose on the stage in some ,of the • scenes
hardly anybody would notice any difference.
The company is rich in basses and in Lina
Paliughi and Anna Surani has two soprani
of' rare excellence. Baritone Brownlee has
now. been added to the co., and is appearing
in the name-role in “Rigolottn” and as
Amonasro in “Aida.” “Tales of Hoffman” and
revivals of the most popular favorites will
see out the season. - - ? . .
Y Y Y
Nellie Brantley is planning , her repertoire
for 1933 at Melb. Palace. This is not a
flight of fancy. but a. solemn, statement of
fact and a demonstration that, Nellie has
made a remarkable do of her Melbourne
George Wallace, commander-in-chief of
“Pleasure Bound at Sydney Cri.
season in the middle of one of the worst
slumps in the history of legitimate. She’
proposes to produce several new plays next
year, but it is suspected that by 1985 she
will be driven to reviving revivals of revivals’.
By 1936 she will have produced every play-
able play, ancient and modern, and will be
obliged to subsidise dramatists to write new
works for her. or her Five-year Plan wili
come to an end through lack of raw material.
This week the indomitable lady is engaged
on “The Last of Mrs. Cheyney.”
Van Druten’s “London Wall,” Adelaide
Repertory’s latest production, is a gift to
tiny crowd with acting talent. It is life
in a lawyer’s office, with the firm moral
that every girl clerk should wOrk hard for
an engagement ring; otherwise she will (a)
become an embittered spinster, or (6) fall
a victim to the managing clerk. Beryl
Kook took chief honors as a specimen of
(a) saving a nice kid (Betty Dawson) from
becoming (6). Her own loss of her sole
chance of a husband and a home is the one
serious bit of the play. Ronald Simpson
did his best to date as the fascinator, smil-
ing and sarcastic, but really attractive.
Muriel Craigie held the stage on her brief
appearances as an eccentric client, funny
yet pathetic. But all were good.
“Dr. Pyg m a-
lion’s” consulting-
rooms. the King's,
Melb our n e, are
being crow d e d
nightly by clients.
Harvey Adams has
added a snort to
the histrionic
equipment of the
aggrieved husband
of Lucy Haydon and
it is most effective
when the American
millionaire asks him
for: his wife’s hand
in marriage. Gab-
riel Toyne's curtain-
raiser had a.run of
one night, being
withdrawn when it
was found that
Harrison Owen’s
comedy made a
full - length even-
ing’s entertainment.
Otherwise Toyne's
picture Of a
romantic female’s
reactions to her
lover on his first
appearance in a
hard-hitter was
worth inclusion on
its merits.
Y Y
The playgoer
who lingers too
.long over his
Athol Tier, at
Sydney Cri.
dinner these nights runs a risk of missing
a seat at Melb. Tivoli, where Jack Russell
is being the Village Idiot until Saturday.
Y Y *
“Say Bo”: The real obstacle to the pre-
sentation of new operas is not the Firm
but the public. In order to obtain the right
to produce “Andrea Chenier”; in Melbourne
J.C.W. had to pay the owners for 20 sup-
posititious performances. It was withdrawn
after, two performances owing to public in-
difference. And “Chenier” wasn't even new.
SHADOW SHOWS.
Sydney Regent has two well-produced pic-
tures this week, each of which has as many
obvious inorals as "Over the Hill,” and is
as self-consciously luscious as ‘‘The Blue
Danube.” Carole Lombard is a mannequin
in "Sinners in the Sun,” and Chester Morris,
whom she loves and who loves her, is a
mechanic. He hears she is carrying on with
a married man,. and takes a chauffeur's job
with Adrienne Arties, a millionairess. The
millionairess proposes to him, and Carole
reads of their marriage while dining in sin
with her wealthy admirer. The theme is
the conflict between love and avarice, and,
of course, in view of the tender mental
years of most of those for whom talkies are
designed, love wins in the end. Most of the
business is old—the unexpected meeting
between the separated lovers which leaves
them gasping with excitement, was done
much better , in “The Queen Was in the
Parlor”—but there are some; dramatic
American touches. Morris.sees his wife being
kissed at a dance, and a bystander observes
that husbands in their position have to be
what he calls "shut-eye” on such occasions.
It turns out that the speaker was also
a chauffeur before lie married money. The
l .S.A. is probably the only country where
women such as Miss Ames portrays make
honest men of illiterate oafs like the Chester
Morris of this movie. A matter, no doubt,
of easy divorce, which is the father of ex-
perimental marriage. ;
"Thunder Below” is about a liaison be-
tween Paul Lukas and-Tallulah Bankhead
in , a Mexican outpost where her husband,
Charles Bickford, has an engineering job.
Bickford is going blind, and they are fond
of him. which makes the situation more
poignant. After some enthusiastic kissing
on the part of the lovers, and a good deal
of wide-eyed yearning by Miss Bankhead —
conducted alone in provocative Parisian gar-
ments which look oddly out of- place in her
primitive surroundings—they spend a nigh;
together; and she commits suicide. The chief
weakness of the film is Miss Bankhead.
In private life she is no doubt a lady of
austere principles, but on the movie stage
she looks the sort of female who has
had many lovers, and would take another
as a matter of course, and make no fuss
about it afterwards. Some day Holly-
wood will realise that for parts of thi«
kind actresses of the Roman matron school
(Dorothy Peterson occurs at the moment,
though there are many more) Would prove
botlr more stimulating and more naturalistic
than the exotics. The ecstasies of the
Garbos and Bankheads don't ring true—
they follow a hackneyed formula —and the
ladies are even less convincing in. moments
of . remorse. Their gestures of; overmastering
desire could easily be reproduced by the new-
comers if necessary, but the odds are that
new ones would.be evolved. The-sooner it
happens the better. Otherwise film-eroticism
will begin to get loud laughs, and that would
never do.
* * *
“When a Feller Needs a Friend” at the
State is worth while if only for the acting
of the. children. Andy. Shurford arrives td
stay at the home of Jackie Cooper, who is
lame and a coward, and creates an excellent
impression. A shade oily perhaps, somewhat
inclined to be timid, but: sound at heart.
Presently he gets , the cripple outside, and his
manner changes to truculence with terrify-
ing abruptness. His very face becomes cruel.
It is wonderful mumming for one so young.
“Chic” Sale, a benevolent old muddler as
usual, struggles to give Jackie enough self-
confidence to enable him to lick Andy. The
climax is a fight between the boys; a replica
of one of those incredible adult movie-
battles in which, though dozens of Knock-
down blows are delivered, mostly square on
the chin, the, blood-stained ' combatants
always come up for more. The removal of
a couple of thousand feet of whimsy and
false , sentiment would have improved this
film. “Chic’s” dodderings get very tiresome,
arid there is even too much of that little
genius Jackie Cooper.
In “Hollywood Speaks” Genevieve Tobin
is a screen-struck fool, Pat O’Brien, a flam-
boyant publicity-hound who makes a star of
her by means of his celebrated blurbs. Some
samples of his art as a karlumnist are given.
They would be unbelievable but for the fact
that two or three Australian papers habitu-
ally print boosts which are just as asinine.
During her brief career Miss Tobin is re-
sponsible for the suicide of her director's
wife, and the violent death of a blackmailer
whom O’Brien is suspected of having mur-
dered; . Then, she decides to become a blurb-
ist’s bride, and the producer calls it a day.
The photography and. small-part players are
good, but, in the sum, it is awful.
•Y Y Y
"Sunshine Susie.” at the St. James, is
billed as an English film,’but the heroine.
Ren ate Muller, has a German accent, and
tine director has joined in the American trek
to Vienna for his venue. Jack Hulbert is
there , with his comedy-legs, and Owen Nares
takes a cheery Austrian bank director,
who eventually weds the heroine. The new
star is a nice girl with an adequate voice,
but.; if the English studios have nothing
better of her type then they might as well
go- out of the business. The tempo, as in
.so many British films, is slow. The photo-
graphy is excellent, and there is plenty of
catchy music.
Y Y Y
“Radio Patrol,” at Sydney Haymarket.
urges us to love the honest cop. for he is
our friend and his lot is not a happy one.
The fledgling policemen are first shown
learning to mow down eoiivicts with machine-
guns and shoot like gangsters. The recruits
(whose names range from Wiley to Johnson,
with only one Bourke at all. at all, among
them) graduate, and at a police ball Bourke
(Russell Hopton) receives' his first blow.
A pal pinches his girl—none other than our
old friend Lila Lee. She marries the pal,
but, alas ! he is unworthy and so gets killed;
Arid now Lila’s baby is born. A doctor and
three nurses battle for its life- They are
losing hope when the mother’s discarded
admirer bursts into the operating-theatre,
arid; apparently in deference to his noisy
bletherings, the infant decides to live. The
re,st; is depression. Moral (if any) ; Bad
policemen always die.


Behind the Scenes of the Mobiloil Chart
ROBABLY every motorist in Aus-
b ® J tralia to-day has seen a Mobiloil
| feSjgl Chart of Recommendations for
“automotive units.” Many thou-
sands regard it as a very help-
ful piece of service instituted by a
leading oil company. But probably most
motorists, though they refer to it, take its
appearances, just as a matter of course.
Yet behind the Mobiloil Chart is a story
of hard work and scientific achievement that
would make fascinating reading. As a defi-
nite help to motorists, the value of the
Chart can scarcely be overrated.
Since 1906.
The Vacuum Oil Company, which is the
maker of Mobiloil, was the first oil com-
pany to see the necessity ,for publishing a
chart of recommendations for motor-ear
lubrication. This company was also the
first;to recognise the need for different grades
of, oil to suit the. varying types of engines:
and it had placed on the market a range of
motor oils of different characteristics, and
suitable to the requirements of the motors
then existing. Prior to this, motor oil was
just “motor oil.”
The -first chart to appear in Australia was
published in 1906,. and it is interesting to
note that it contained the names, of nearly
twice as many makes of, cars as there are
to-day on the market. But it had only half
the number of grades of lubricant.
Without expert guidance in the matter,
the ordinary motorist could only tell by
long and often costly experimentation
which oil suited his engine the best ; the
advent of the Mobiloil Chart saved him this
trouble.
"V iff , ■
m
’%!#■■ v
f %>
W *
ff s
.rf
rh
' Left:
A ’meeting oj . the
Central Board oj
Automotive Eng i-
neers deciding the
correct grades oj
M obiloil. Boards
meet in all countries
oj manufacture, and
communicate their
findings to each other.
A Lubricant Must “Fit.”
The makers of Mobiloil, who are the
world’s largest specialists in the production
of lubricants, long ago discovered that an
oil must fit the job it has to do—quality,
important as it is, being only part of the
requirements of Correct Lubrication.
A shoe may be manufactured from the
very best leather procurable, and with the
finest workmanship available, and yet be un-
satisfactory to the wearer —if it be the wrong-
size for his feet. ’
So it is with an oil ; and the Vacuum Oil
Company maintains a large staff of expert
investigators . for the definite, purpose of
seeing that the oils recommended by the
company fit their jobs exactly.
s
ś
ŝ
Above; In a Vacuum Testing
Laboratory. In this picture
Mobiloil Gear Lubricants arc
being tried out in a Studebaker
back axle.
Centre :, Experimental Refinery, and Dynamometer Laboratory. This is the
most fully-equipped establishment of its kind in-existence; the photograph does
not do justice to the size of this building.
..
Bottom, Right: Tests of engine oil in a Continental engine.
How the Famous Lubrication
Guide to Motorists is “built”
Mi
■
1
m
¥W
—••"V'Kv s *’
ffgl
4500 Recommendations.
There are approximately 4500 separate
recommendations on this years Mobiloil
Chart. Each one of these has to be right —
for on the integrity of its recommendations
the Vacuum Oil Company places its reputa-
tion.
The pictures accompanying this article
refer to some of. the tests that are carried
Left: Testing a Dodge engine luo-
ricaling system in the Laboratory. Centre: A “Bouncing Pin’ indicator used
in the carrying out of detonation tests. Right : Testing oil for Winter conditions
_apparatus for investigating oil flow through screens at low temperatures.
<mt on the grades of Mobiloil that are men-
tioned in the Chart. Laboratory and bench
tests only are shown, but in addition there
are rigorous tests on race-tracks, and over
special proving grounds where every kind
of road and traffic condition is met with.
A simple letter, such as “A,” shown in a
column opposite your make of car. crystal-
lises months of work by engineers, chemists
and other skilled technicians.
How a Recommendation is
Decided On.
Briefly, different engineers belonging to
the Vacuum Boards of Automotive Engi-
neers are “allotted” different cars for inves-
tigation. Their investigations take them
into the plants of manufacturers (who are
only too pleased to co-operate with the
Vacuum Oil Company in this matter) ; over
test courses on road and speed track; every-
where, in fact, where lubrication require-
ments are indicated.
Mi
Mobiloil
Chart
FOR AUSTRALIA
1932
This Chart represents the professional
advice of the Vacuum Oil Company as
determined by its Automotive Engineers
in Great Britain. U.S.A., France. Germany.
Italy. Australia. New Zealand, and other
countries. It includes models from
1929 to 1932
MOTOR (-A.KS
MOTOR TRUCKS
MOTOtt OR
■; ' ' ■
trH?*
After thoroughly satisfying themselves
that such and such a grade is correct, they
bring their opinion forward at the annual
meeting of their Board at which the Chart
is being' “built.” The results of their inves-
tigations are fully discussed by every mem-
ber present. If others have any information
to add which bears on the matter, it is
then brought forward. Not until the whole
Board is satisfied that the recommendation
is correct is it set down for inclusion in the
Chart.
Six Hundred Years*
Experience.
There are Vacuum Boards of Automotive
Engineers in all the principal motoring coun-
tries of the world. Each communicates the
data that it lias accumulated and its findings
to the other.
Every member of a Vacuum Board of
Engineers is a duly qualified man. And as
for practical experience, if all this experi-
ence behind the members of the Central
Board were added together, it would total
over 600 years.
Members of the London and other Boards
have equivalent experience behind them.
Every Vacuum Automotive Engineer
throughout the world has behind him sources
of lubrication information that are unique.
“Near Enough” Not Good
Enough.
Exact suitability, plus highest quality, is.
in a nutshell, the doctrine of the Vacuum
Oil Company in recommending its oils to
the public. If, during their investigations
on a new make or model of a car, Vacuum
Engineers find that there is not a grade in
the Mobiloil range that correctly fulfils all
lubrication requirements for the new car,
the refiners are given the job of developing
an oil that does.
Mobiloil “AF” is an instance of a new oil
being produced to meet specific needs. At the
same time, all the other oils in the Mobiloil
range are not allowed to stand still. They
are constantly being improved to meet modern
motoring conditions, and to give an even
greater margin of safety in use. It is not
only because of the frequent changes in the
design of motor-car engines, but also because
of the regular improvements in the grades
of Mobiloil, that Chart Recommendations
sometimes vary between one year and another.
It is because of these facts, and the
Vacuum policy of giving the most up-to-date
lubrication service to its clients, that an
annual chart is necessary. The Mobiloil
Chart is the only annual motor lubrication
chart issued.
Popularity—the Reward of
Service.
The information given in this article indi-
cates the reason why more motor manufac-
turers recommend Mobiloil than any other
oil; why Mobiloil is the most popular oil
amongst motorists, in Australia as through-
out the world, to-day; and why both effi-
ciency and economy can be gained by follow-
ing the Vacuum Oil Company's well-known
advice—" Make the Mobiloil Chart Your
Guide.”
A “hill-
climbing”
mack i n e
for cars
being
tested.
1
For Economical Motoring
this Season, use
Mobiloil


NO
BOOK
OVER
§
c®
SB
pOOKS
NEW BOOKS
ON EVERY SUBJECT
Fiction Games
Home-arts • ■ Motors
Carpentry Electricity
Gardening; Wireless
Classics, Economics, etc.
Mechanics Technical
Detailed Lists Post Free—WRITE TO-DAY
Address
CENTRAL ARCADE,
P.O. BOX KBll —PERTH, W.A.
X'JZZcAXIAa/ ,
Tl&tuAes'S&Ce+vve,
' % 2&ristS&xUJ, SCajpe.
&S&cec*i ?Krte4, /*#■
i£e
TheAUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES 6?
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., Jin. and |in
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/- each, post free.
S6e PLUM RAZOR
blades.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case-
Black 85/-, Xylo.- 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS arc supplied in two widths
—fin. and jin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
WOODS'
GREAT
PEPPERMINT
CURE
For Coughs, Colds,
and Influenza.
The Unrivalled Remedy
ş
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying and
Selling List Free.
Established-49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
ABORIGINALITIES
•'Wippegong” : The bridge at the foot of
the six-mile gap was down and travellers
had to use the ford a few yards further
upstream—quite a shallow ford it looked,
with an easy grade on each side. The big
limousine, all gleaming ebony and silver,
swung from the road into the creek, and
had almost reached level ground on the
other side, when the wheels lost their grip
and the car slid back into the stream. The
next attempt only made matters worse and
the. situation looked serious. Then down
a track along the creek came a youngster
VENGEANCE!
WILLIAM (whom the car has just
missed ): “Gawd help that
bloke if ever I get a job
on the steam roller.”
dragging an old draught mare—a fencer’s
mate. He was hailed with delight and
told the tale of woe. Without delay he
hitched old Kate to the limousine, and the
additional liorse-power did the trick,
Appreciation was practical. “Aw, tint’s or-
right,” drawled the kid, and turned to go;
but a ten-bob note was thrust into his
hand and the car departed. The shy bush
nipper watched it wind out of sight among
the stringy-barks. then stepped to a patch
of bracken, produced a bucket, and with
the touch of an artist restored the hank
of f.he ford to its former deceptive appear-
ance. Then he planted the bucket and,
with moke, retired to his lair. That was
the week-end of the picnic races. The
young blighter collected a river within
24 hours.
"Tomyodai”: The old hands out on the
Broome pearling grounds predicted an
early finish of the sou’-east season this
year, as a school of whales made its appear-
ance among the boats on July 7. They are
rarely seen till August or September. When
these creatures are close up to the boats
divers have to .cease work owing to the dan-
ger of their fouling life-lines and air-hose.
One of my old divers was sitting on deck in
full diving cquipiftertt, waiting for these
cetaceans to depart; At last in disgust he
ordered one of his crew to bring him up a
spare almanac. This he threw overboard at
the monsters, yelling. “Take a look at that,
you ruddy fools! Don’t you know you’re
not due till next month?”
* * * ■' *
“Norbell”: "Yous blokes talk about a
eat havin’ nine lives,” remarked Splinter
Davis, “but wot about a dorg? I had a
-dorg called- Bluey . once; a good mong he
wos, too. But he got th’ mange, an’ I
eouldn’ cure him, an’ then he started eatin’
the hen eggs, an’ I eouldn’ choke him off
that, neither. So- I says, ‘Bluey, it’s you
for it!’ I takes him down to th’ hole in
111' crick, tyin’ a rope on to drag him out
with after he’s drownded. 1 fastens a
fourteen-pound gibber roun’ his neck an’
slings him in. I sees th’ bubbles come up,
an’ when Jt’s all over I drags him out
an’ buries him under a wattle, an’ stamps
th’ dirt down on him, poor oYI cow. Then
I; goes down to th’ slip-mils an’ has a
smoke. When I gets up, to th’ house for
tea. blime! there’s Bluey sittin' on the
verandah, floppin’ his tail to welcome me
home! What’s more it cured him of mange,
an’ he never pinched another egg.”
“Barangkali”: At the Science Congress
in Sydney native psychology got most of
tfle blame for the rapid dying-put. of the
Papuan tribes. Exactly what the savants
mean by psychology isn't for a layman to
try to guess, but I blame the ban placed
on head hunting and wars for the decadence
of the tribes. In Dutch New Guinea the
conclusion is unavoidable. From time im-
memorial head-hunting and resultant tribal
wars have been the only factors that kept
the natives virile and healthy, and as this
form of amusement is now almost entirely
suspended, the men are a prey to ennui, the
worst of hells on earth. They haven’t the
anodyne of work. In a region where the
sago palm abounds and a man may get his
year’s rations from the palm in a day, and
where he can get booze by climbing a nipa
or sugar palm, slitting the flower stem and
collecting the sap into the eocoanut shell
hanging beneath it. steady daily labor
seems absurd.
“Kayeff”: A lot of practical science i.s
employed by the canoe-builders of the Gilbert
Islands in fhe design and construction of
their swift craft. Having discovered that the
outrigger float dragging through the water
retarded speed, they rigged their sails
so that the outrigger should always be to
windward, which in
volved swinging the
boom to the opposite
side of the mast to
go about, instead of
bringing the canoe
round. In this way
tin 1 outrigger in any
sort, of a breeze was
lifted clear of the
surface, assisted by
the balancing efforts
of the crew. With
the outrigger out of
water, however, the
long boom had a
tendency to make the
canoe luff, so these
black savants thought
hard and developed
a laterally - curved
keel to make the
craft pay off to the
side opposite the out-
rigger. They don’t
fashion the curve
according to Euclid,
but they get it right
by rrial and error,
testing the effect by
pushing the canoe in
still water. In the
building of the shell
only two or three
crude tools are us: d,
and there is not a
nail or peg in the
whole canoe. • The
-planks are bent to
the framework and
sewn into position
with einnet. The
planking is laid edge
to edge, and to se-
cure a good fit
between adja cent
planks the builder
takes a cont a c t
marking with soot,
and then pares away
the high spo t s,
exactly as a fitter
surfaces two pieces
of metal. So excel-
lent is the fitting
that usually th c
only caulking needed
is to plug up the
holes through which
the sinnet lacings,
recessed flush with
the outer surface, are
passed. The Gilbertese have also developed
a science of navigation without the compass.
They steer, when out of sight of land, by
sun or stars, and pick up invisible land by
the glare thrown into the sky from beaches,
which they claim they can see distinctly,
though imperceptible to whites. They also
judge the presence of land by the for-
mation of clouds, and seem rarely at fault,
using either method.
“McNoon”: I can tell “T.Y.I” (B.
3/8,/'32) how foxes locate the nests of young
rabbits in burrows. In building
a burrow rabbits are limited to two
designs, and the fox is instinc-
tively acquainted with both. The
place of the nests in each plan is
definitely fixed, and the fox on
arrival finds out which system has
been adopted and digs accordingly.
Reynard’s sense of hearing is so
acute that after getting some way
below the surface he can, by put-
ting an ear to the bottom of the
hole, hear the kittens breathing. If
he doesn’t he knows they are not
there and gives up. flow do I
know? 1 once reared a baby fox.
and after he was grown often watched him
at the trick.
“McFad”: Some years back Rob Prow,
who ran a general store in a .small, publess
(M.L.) township, suddenly found himself
competing with Edward P. for the Popu-
larity Championship. A large meat-freezing
works was opposite, and word had gone
round the emery-throated mear-surgeons
that Prew’s “herbal beer” was worth inves-
tigating. The town board then complained
about the ruts being worn across the road
by the constant two-way traffic of No. 10
bluchers, and the cestat'c expressions on
the faces of returning pilgrims caused the
haw to sniff suspiciously. Two Mum-clothes
men sampled Bob's brew and took a little
away for a post-mortem. The result was
a prosecution, with Bob loudly protesting
that his recipe was as innocent iis a curate’s
diary. So it, was, but cross-examination
elicited that the brew was made in whisky
casks. Sufficient waipiro came out of the
ON THE SPOT.
wood into each brew to give it the effect
that appealed to the butchers. Hob had
to face nothing worse than the waggle of
the beak's admonishing forefinger. But
the next brew was made in vinegar casks,
and the Great Trek ended.
* * * *
“W.J.W.”: Tim Hoolahan, who kept one
of the two pubs in a small Vic. township
in the days before 6 o’clock closing, was
doing a roaring trade until the premises
next door were occupied by a pipe-playing
Scot. Each night the air was full of pib-
rochs and laments, and Tim’s patrons trans-
ferred their custom to the other pub.
Tim tried to reason with McShetland over
the back fence, but all that resulted was
a royal row. So the next night Tim in-
vited a number of the local lads to his
backyard, filled them with beer and armed
them with stones. Mac’s first skirl was
followed by a hail of stones on his roof.
There was a brief silence, and then the
pipes blared forth again, defiance in every
note. The lads continued to bombard the
house, and, when their supply of stones
gave out. replenished it from a heap in the
corner of the yard. After a brief interval
the bagpipes took on a new tone. Defiance
pave place to exultation and Tim. directing
operations from the back door, observed it
and wondered. In a moment or two the
horrible truth dawned upon him. “Wind
have yez done, ye young brats?” he howled.
“He’ll never go now. Yez’ve given him
enough coal t’ last him six munee!”
“Herpes”: At the Science Congress in
Sydney Dr. C. H. Kellaxvay, director of
the Eliza and Walter Hall Institute, famous
for his work on anti-venines, pointed out
the difference between the venom of the
viperine snakes and the colubrines. Of The
vipers we have only one in Australia.
Acanthopis antarctica, otherwise our old
friend the death adder, but we have the
largest variety of colubrines in the world.
The effect of the viperine poison is to co-
agulate the blood. The colubrine venom
acts directly on the muscular system, with
consequent paralysis of the respiratory
system and death by asphyxia.
THIS ORACLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Yes, things,” he said, “are as bad to-day
as ever I’ve known ’em be,
And I’ve ’eard all that they ’ave to say,
but it means nothin’ to me.
For I know all that the shrewdies know,
and I’ve worked it out that when
The bad times come, and the godd times go,
there’ll soon be a change again.
“For it ain’t the way of things,” lie said,
“to be always as they were.
There's always trouble a bit ahead, though
everythin’' seems set fair.
And you gain nothin’ by lookin' glum when
’ard luck’s settin’ the pace;
You 'ave to take things the way they come,
for they take you, in any case.
"The funniest thing of all,” he said, “and it
knocks a man to bits,
Is the way the mob will lose its ’ead, and
the way the mob forgits.
When things are easy we're all dead game,
and full of blather and skitc.
But we look for someone else to' blame
when nothin’ is goin’ right.
"There’s just this wrong with the mob,”
he said, “and here's where we’re oft
the track :
We don't look far enough on ahead, and
we don’t look far enough back.
If we did, we’d see just where we’re wrong,
for we’d see enough to know
That nothin’ stays as it is too long, and
whatever comes must go.”
w.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


m
HAND
PLAITED
KANGAROO
SKIN BELT
ifli new
iener
rind fastener'
PRICE
[PIHKI Wtf&H InllElftSJLTl^
in, Queen St. Brisbane
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated j
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
A , £8.780,000
Paid-up Capital * 6,150,000
Reserve Fund .. ♦« •• •• •• •• 8 780 000
Reserve Liability .. •• •• B’7BU>UUU 8 ’ 78U>UUU
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 .. .. .. .. £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, \V.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. . • 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world. . _
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
“N.A.W.” “All the best trappers I ever
met,” said Truthful Ted, “always 'ad regard
to the fizzological aspeck of the matter,
every animal ’-aving some fatal weakness,
so to speak. Now in the case of rabbits
it’s simpleness. So the fizzological method
is to get a couple of pounds of grey peas
and scatter a few round the mouth of each
burrow about two yards from the ’oles.
Then yer wait behind the ’oles till the
rabbits come out. O’ course they all go
for the grey peas, but grey peas is a bit
’ard, so the bunnies ’as to shut their eyes
to ’elp git their teeth into ’em. It’s then
yer fizzology comes in. Yer pick ’em up
like pennies orf a blind man’s palm.”
“Curare”: An anthropological discovery
of importance is the location of the dart
blowpipe in a small area of southern New
Britain, part of Mandated New Guinea.
Borneo is the nearest spot where the
weapon is in common us.e, and its other
homes, the Andamans and certain portions
of South America, are also far apart. The
Neyv Guinea pipe is peculiar by reason of
its great length—lijft.- -and from the fact
that it is built up of several pieces jointed
together. The dart is a slender strip of
palm and is feathered. The range is about
ICO yards. To use it, the shooter has to
rest iiis unwieldy weapon on a tree or some
other support.
“Pick”: That in pursuit of iish cormor-
ants sometimes dive to extraordinary depths
was established the other day when a
trawler was hauling- for flathead off Mon-
tague on the N. S. Wales south coast. The
net was sweeping a sandy oottom 80ft.
below. A white cormorant repeatedly
plunged from aloft to earn a breakfast
alongside the boat. Presently he failed to
reappear. lie came up later, drowned,
having become entangled in the lower
meshes of the net.
“Baldy”: That dissertation on the value
of a good bullock or horse bell (B.
24/8/’32) reminds me of one which started
a feud between McTavish and his neighbor
Hennessey that flourishes to this day
among their great-grand-children. Both were
cattle-station owners in Queensland: and, like
many of their kind in those days, never ate
their own beef save when visiting a neigh-
bor. One day Hennessey's young daughter
complained that a pet white heifer her
father had given her was missing. Her
tears moved her father to -saddle up and
ride over to McTavish’s. Passing the yards
at the station he spotted the heifer with
a small mob and rode on to' lunch with his
Scottish' cobber. The meal took some time,
and at the finish Hennessey inquired about
the heifer, saying he had seen her in the
yard. Mac denied all knowledge of her, and
on adjourning to the yards there w r as no
BREAKING IT GENTLY TO PERCY.
“That’s the young man your Elizabeth Ann rejected, isn’t it?”
“Well, no. I didn ’ want ’Lizbeth Ann for to ’fend ’e, ’im bein’ cap'n’s son an’ all. So
she putt it to ’n that when she felt like makin’ fool of ’erself she’d let ’n know.”
heifer there—only a freshly-killed beast
on the gallows and no hide in sight. Hon-
nesscy knew when he was beaten, and rode
off. Near his own boundary he came on a
team of bullocks which were the pride of
Mae’s heart. One, a magnificent red beast,
wore a splendid copper bell which had been
specially made for it. A week later Mac
arrived at Hennessey’s and after due for-
malities asked if anyone had seen the red
bullock. Hennessey in his turn denied all
knowledge of it, but added as Mac was
mounting, “It wudn’t surproise me, now,
if he’s gone the way of that little wlioite
heifer av moine.” Mac, his foot in the
stirrup, regarded his enemy fixedly for halt
a minute. Then, as he swung to the
saddle, he answered bitterly, “Weel, daam
it, Terence mon, ye needna ha’ kept the
bdl!” . 0
“Gulliver”: Last summer a large brown
snake took up residence in a hole under
the stone wall of my verandah. Though
a good mouser, ho was fonder of young
chickens. One hot afternoon I turned the
corner just in time to catch sight of the
last six inches being drawn into the hole.
1 unearthed an old phonograph and trans-
ported it to within a few feet of his den.
After playing about six records of the
livelier sort which apparently made no
appeal, I put on the Intermezzo from “Caval-
leria Rusticana.” The disc had hardly be-
gun to revolve when Mr. Snake’s head
appeared. As the melancholy chords gathered
volume he withdrew more and more of his
length until he had about eighteen inches
against the wall. He was swaying gently
in an ecstasy of musical appreciation when
I caught him neatly under the chin with
a half-brick.
“Sinbad”: Netting in Trial Bay
(N.S.W.) we had surrounded a large school
of bream, at the same time including a ma
porpoise and her youngster. As the net
was drawn near the shore the old lady neatly
vaulted the cork-line, but the youngster
didn’t compree and refused to .follow her
example. Some minutes later we were
astonished to see ma deliberately jump tin-
line and re-enter the enclosed waters. She
swam up to Little Willie, took him round
the course twice at a good pace and then
schooled him over the hurdle.
“C.H.F.”: Before the big ’quake of last
year Napier (M.L.) was practically free
from frosts. Of recent months very hard
frosts have been experienced. This is
attributed to the fact that as a result of
the ’quake some 7,000 acres of dry land
wore thrust up from the sea-bed of the
harbor. Whether a permanent change of
climate has been effected or whether the
frosts are the result of the hard winter
Maoriland has suffered under isn’t yet
demonstrable, but tropical and sub-tropical
plants that previously did well are disap-
pearing and gardeners are reconciling them-
selves to an alteration in a long-established
routine.
“E.S.”: Most snakes have a baleful glitter
in the eyes, but the carpet has a sleepy and
rather kindly look about it. I have picked
it up, and it has turned its head slowly round
and looked at me in the dull way of a tired
bullock. For all that, the carpet is no sloth.
I was creeping along through reeds and
rushes one morning after magpie geese, when
I came upon a lengthy specimen lying across
the narrow track. I couldn’t straighten up or
deviate without scaring the game, and I
didn’t know where the reptile's head was.
Acting on an old bush idea. I glanced aside
for a second or two, and when I looked back
it was gone. It vanished as quickly and as
silently as a ghost. Like the pugilist, the
carpet watches the other fellow’s eye. It is
an intelligent reptile; it won’t tight, and
when escape from attack is hopeless it feigns
death.
BY THE BOOK.
ASSISTANT: “Mrs. Goggett came in for a pound of sugar and asked me not to weigh
it on the Ambush scales."
PROPRIETOR: “Ambush! What did she mean?”
ASSISTANT: “I looked up the dictionary, sir -ambush' means 'to lie in wait.'"
“Homfrey Beale”: The existence of a
feathered serpent is among the beliefs held
by the Dora Creek (N.S.-W.)
blacks. A description of the
reptile supplied by a semi-civil-
ised Dora Binghi puts its approxi-
mate length at 100 ft. and its
girth about Oft. It is arrayed
from one end to t’other in poly-
chromatic feathers, and has one
red and one yellow eye on the
usual site of such accessories,
and three blue ones in its tail.
It is alleged to absorb nourish-
ment in chemical form from the
earth by simply lying still on a
chosen spot, and to need only
three feeds a year, each, however,
lasting a moon. Of those seeing
it, only such as met with its
august approval record the fact,
the others being immediately dis-
solved into atmosphere.
“Trevdee”; In the South
Gippsland ranges there is not
one acre of perfectly level ground
for miles, but the local sports
don’t eschew cricket or football
on this account. One ground is
a saucer-shaped area with rocky
hills forming the banks. Foot-
ballers have learnt to kick the
ball on to the rocks, from which
it bounces back to a waiting
companion; great skill is shown
in this trick, which is termed
the “rock pass.” In the cricket
season it is strange to bat On
a wicket which is fully two feet higher at
one end and sloping away to one side, and
a trundler bowling up-hill and against the
wind must be pretty skilful to do any
damage. ~
“Barangkali”: Some weeks ago a Chinese
steamer arrived at Samarang. on the east
coast of Java, and the captain re-
ported the death, of one of his, crew the
previous evening. The Health Officer
boarded the vessel, assured himself that
the man had died from natural causes and
gave a certificate for burial. The crew
immediately prepared a typical Chinese
funeral for the departed, including fireworks
and the burning of paper money and a
photograph of the dead man, and they pro-
cured an enormous coffin from the loca
dealer. That evening saw a gay procession
leave the ship for the Chinese comet eis.
where the coffin was interred with the usual
rites. A customs official who saw the cere-
mony developed deep suspicions. . He knew
that a Chinaman who leaves his country
as a seaman does so on the understanding
that, should he die, his bones will be taken
back to China and deposited with those of
his ancestors. So the grave was watched.
Soon after midnight the watchers pounced
on three Chinese just after they had almost
completely disinterred the coffin. On open-
ing the casket it was found that the spirit
of the deceased had miraculously been. re-
incarnated into hundreds of tins of opium.
His materia] body had evidently been
slipped overboard soon after the health
officer’s inspection.
ijt ❖ ❖ *
“Larrapinta”: On Thistle Island (S.A.)
’possums were released by the owners a few
years ago. The Government refused to sane
tion the killing of them unless it was a gen-
eral open season, and the 'possums increased
until the nine square miles of the island
were well-nigh overrun with them. Then
they began to die off, and to-day not one
can be found alive there. Probably over-
crowding settled their hash. Creatures of
their type, of continental origin, normally
do not become very numerous in any one
locality. The experience suggests that bunny
comes from an insular strain, inured to
scanty rations.
“Bonzo”: The battle between the Cali-
fornian squirrels and the keepers at Whip-
snade, London’s great open-air zoo, has
gone ten rounds, with the former a mile
ahead on points of -strategy and tactics.
When first placed in their spacious cages
the squirrels gnawed through the ceiling
and founded a colony in the space between
the laths and tiles. Here tliev defied all
attempts to shift them. When their rations
were cut off they gnawed their way into
neighboring cages, returning from each
visit with a week’s supply tucked in their
elastic cheeks. Ingenious traps were laid,
and the squirrels were captured and placed
in new quarters with asbestos ceilings. So
they concentrated this time on the floor,
under which they have constructed an elab-
orate network of subterranean tunnels and
chambers, ensconced in which they have
defied every effort made to dislodge them.


“THE ‘WILD CAT' MONTHLY”
FOR SEPTEMBER,
NOW ON SALE
Will prices recover to 1928
levels ?
The future of Consols.
Gold Dollar Bonds.
Outlook for Industrials.
The metal markets.
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors are dis-
cussed in the September issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J Rvan .
F, E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ' ’ *•* *
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne Svdnev inri or
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through +he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking bus’ine^s.
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment. Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Railway Station ),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Baths
2*V
/l i
1 ; n
i s
! l
it a
? 3 ??
Lit*
Melbourne’s Mast Modern Hotel.
Rates per day:
Room and meals from 22/8
Room and Breakfast from 12/6
SMOKE-OH!
How about calling it flic Basic Wrage?
* ¥
“Nazi journals declare that nothing will stop the
Hitlerites’ onward march, adding that bayonets may
be useful, but the Government cannot sit on them
permanently. ’ ’ —“ West Ans tral ian.”
Unless, of course, the Government de-
cides to beat the nation’s ploughshares into
pants.
* H-
THE VANE.
“Despite the Prince’s example, it is still too early
to say whether the straw hat vogue will become
general.”
If you Dame Fashion’s mind would know,
Just keep your eyes well skinned;
For still to-day a “straw” may show
The point whence blows the wind.
* *
FACING UP TO IT.
Carefully, unflinchingly, the young hus-
band pondered the question. Would sudden
riches turn his head? Would be become an
indolent, pleasure-seeking drone, oblivious
to the suffering and poverty of his less for-
tunate friends? And what of Mary, who had
stuck to him through thick and thin?
He turned to her. “Mary,” he .said, “ours
has been a happy married life in spite of the
hardships. Do you think sudden wealth
would change us? Would the love and
sympathy that have kept us together in times
of stress be overcome by a craze for pass-
ing pleasure?”
The girl looked hesitant. “I hope not,”
she whispered.
“The newspapers,” went on the husband,
“tell some pitiful tales of misery caused by
money. Divorces, suicides, ill-health through
high living. Would sudden riches cause us
to deteriorate on such lines ?”
“I don’t think so.” Her answer rang
clear and confident.
The man dug his hand into his pocket.
“I’ll chance it,” he said boldly, and breasted
the counter. “Here, miss, givvus a ticket
in the lottery.”
PIGINSTRAU.
# *
“Blows are being dealt at the sugar industry.”
Swats to the sweet, as the saying goes.
“But he’s not a qualified doctor. Your
uncle didn’t pay for his advice, did he?”
“Oh yes, he did—he died.”
“A meeting of poultry farmers at Beaconsfield
last night decided to form an egg circle.”— “Herald.”
The average hen. however, will continue
to form an egg oval.
Some of these Royal Commission witnesses
pay far too much attention to the “Silence
in Court” rule.
* V
“The State lottery must bo reformed.”
—Sydney cleric.
That would be making a clean sweep of
it, anyhow,
* *
THE CURSE OF ORIGINALITY.
“Howzit, baby! An’ why these weeps?”
“This here noo scenario-bug's gotta noo
idear!”
“How come?”
“Well, lie’s got a dandy plot featurin’ an
old Virginny family, ’n a palatial skyscraper
in N’Yoiek, with
a fluffy-haired
stenog., an’ a box
of sogars to slip t,<>
the bull. Then
there’s a fit-up for
the usual Court
scene in Reel 6;
ditto for midnight
orgy at roadhouse
with live - w i r e
’phone that gives
you your number
before you ask for
it. An' there’s an
old butler an’
grapefruit that
nobody eats. An’
a barrel-safe in
the bedroom wall
for the jools. An’
an angel child, an’
the last gasp in
automobools."
“Yep, kiddo. I
know ’em all. Rut
what’s the no o
idear?”
“You’ll neve r
believe it. boy,
but not once in
the whole blame
f ilium, from the
P asset!- by - the-
Board - of - Censors
cut-in right down
<o the fade-out
kiss, not once, I
say”——
“Don’t cry. lion. Tell Uncle”
“Not once docs the goldurned gink give
me a chance to wear me pyjammers!”
Norbell.
* v
“The old British sport of ‘Bending the Yew Bow’
has been revived by English archery clubs.”
Meanwhile the still older British sport
of bending the 01-bow continues to flourish
in other clubs.
* *
SYDNEY
(A Play in One Act.)
Scene: King-street.
Characters:
P.C. No. 101,360 (On pavement patrol),
John Citizen (On business).
John Citizen, Jun. (with bag).
P.C. 101,360: “Lessee your license!”
John Citizen : “Certainly. Car, car-
driver’s, parking, pedestrian, sleeping, radio,
dog, cat, canary, marriage, paternal, drinking,
hawking, trading, bathing, fishing, punting,
free-speech, eating, laughing or breathing?
Come son, open the family license-case for
him.”
Curtain.
* *
Bars I would breast with vinous cheers,
And viands swallow without question.
‘‘>it ah, the years! the eating years!
Note all I’ve got is indigestion
* * K
AN EX-HIKER SBEAKS.
Have you ever god hikig? Do? Weil
1 b sure you do’t kdow what you’ve hissed!
I cad sbeak frob iggsborience. There was
quite a dubber of us. ad as we set off with
care-free laughder no thoughd had we of
the raid that ere log was to deseed berci-
lessly upod us. Dowd id cabe. It wo’d last
log, we sbiled, but alas! how wrog we
were. The first bile or so was dot too bad.
but after that the boisture begad to podc-
trate our cloth! g, ad sood every wud was
extrebely udcobfortable. Bud begad to cake
od our shoes, bakig theb seeb like lead, but
od we wedt, the spirit of the piodeers biddig
us be light of heart. Whed we reached the
spot decided od for ludeh, we foud that ail
the eadables were saduraded, so we bade
sobe tea, whed fidally we badaged to lighd a
fire, ad thed tried to dry ourselves. But the
raid kepd cohig dowd id turrets, so we
thought we’d better bake for hobe id cas<>
wo caught chills. At last wc reached towd.
ad everywud said what a pity it had raid.
but it had heed a bost cdjoyable outig ail
the sabe, ad that we’d have adother wud
sood. So do’t forget, the dext chadce you
get to go hikig, jup at it—-it’s such a healthy
pastibe. But do’t look, for be, I shall dot, be
there!’ Hector.
“Dr. Page presses for new States.”
But he isn’t likely to get it to a division
just yet. * *
HOPELESS PROSPECT.
The memory-course salesman hurtled but
of the office door, and struck the opposite
wall with a sickening thump. Onlookers
rushed to his assistance, and presently he
revived sufficiently to gasp out an explana-
tion.
“First failure I’ve ever had.” he moaned.
“I’ve sold a memory course to every other
business man in this town.”
“Ass!” sneered a bystander. “The cove
you called on is appearing before the Tin
Ilare Commission to-morrow.”
T. R.
“I wonder why sailors wear their trousers so tight in the seat
and so unde at the bottoms?”
“Oh, I suppose that’s some more of the Gover'ment’s misplaced
economy!”
THE SOZZLED SYMPHONY.
“Dr. E. MacLoughlin, of Hamilton, Ontario, ■ has
written ‘lnfluenza—a Tone Poem,’ describing, the
symptoms. Clarinets in swift crescendo provide a
chills-up-the-spine motif in the first .movement ; and
a jew’s harp in the second movement conveys a vivid
impression of a headache.”— Melb. “Herald.”
My friend Professor Blotto assures me
that the idea for the above was. taken from
his own opus, “Inky Poo.”
It opens brightly, according to him, with
a saloon-bar allegretto, changing to a march
(or gin-crawl) maestoso-andante, advancing
to several bars, allegro and capriccioso. A
sbick scherzo is then followed by an inter-
mezzo for triangles, zithers, xylophones and
bagpipes, indicating the clinking of glasses.
Several cadenzas for piccolos and ocarinas
suggest prolonged gargling. A scherzando
movement follows. The funny stories have
begun. Staccato phrases for the trombone
and tympani almost articulate “That re-
minds me of the bloke who”—- A pizzi-
cato for the strings and chords conveys the
counting of change, and the upper notes
of the cash-register ring vivace on the
cymbals.
The next movement is a slow’ crescendo
and rallentando, merging to a ritardando
for the tubas, with interspersed gargling
cadenzas for the bass—and Tooth's.
There is now a full legato passage from
one bar to the next, with a spiritoso-da-
cognac-swallowing potpourri, presto and
prestissimo. Then a pizzicato for the
strings suggests the sudden contraction of
the diaphragm, accompanied by closure of
the glottis, as in hiccups. The wind with
the double-basses heralds the rising storm,
while sharp vivace, velocc and vicious inter-
jectional passages gradually subside to a
mere maudlin affectuoso, diminuendo. Then
a crash of the concertina is given cre-
scendo to diatonic, chromatic, aromatic and
inharmonic cacophony. The coda is a
largo passage indicating the morning after.
„ N.C.
more liorrorscope readings.
(By Our Stipendiary Seer.)
“J.T.L.” (Auburn).—You were born under
the sign Taurus; your weakness is for
bulls. Your unlucky month is June, your
unlucky day. Saturday. When in conjunction
with number eleven, positively disastrous
“Taxpayer (Suburbia) .-Born on a FrL
day the 13th under the sign Capricornus.
You will be a sufferer from bleeding through-
out your life.
“Dr. Earle P.” (Grafton). —Crab (other-
wise Cancer) is your sign, and it and your
political progress have similar methods. The
raspberry is your fruit. Possess a distinct,
penchant for cutting up, both anatomically
and topographically. Your favorite bloom,
the wall-dower.
“J. Aloysius” (Canberra). —The sign
Balance (or Libra) influences your life,
though it has still to affect your Budget.
Philoprogenitiveness strongly developed. Like
Samson, your strength lies in your hair; to
crop it would rob you of invaluable publicity.
* *
“Mitchell, the new English ‘mystery’ bowler, is
able to give such a twist with his fingers that he
can make a billiard ball travel round a table without
touching the cushion.”
Our lads won't grumble provided they get
a fair spin.
* *
Many are asking if England will win the
India-rubber.
SHOP O’ DREAMS.
During the first year of their marriage
they had felt no desire to linger near it.
They were only the two of them, and their
needs were easily satisfied. But now their
interest had grown. Its wares of dainty
pink and soft, tender white —some large, but
mostly small —attracted them irresistibly.
Especially was the woman fascinated. Often
when her young husband was busy she would
slip away, and, careless of the curious
glances of passers-by, gaze entranced at the
lovely little things spread with careful hands
on the gleaming shelves. Some in particular
did she passionately long for. Oh. so tiny
were they, palest of pink, with here and
there a touch of white as contrast. One
night she passed the shop with John and
pointed them out to him, but he shook his
head sadly. “No, darling. It would be
extravagance. It’s not as though they’re
absolutely necessary. Perhaps later on’’
And she'flushed as he lovingly squeezed her
hand. Then came an evening when, the
time of waiting over, they went for their
daily stroll and, as usual, came to the Shop
of Temptation. Simultaneously they stopped,
lie frowned, then smiled. Her hopes rose
high. “Yes, dear. We might. Seeing, the
‘Blurb’ says the Depression will definitely
end next month, I think we might.” And
hand in hand they went in and purchased a
pound of those long longed-for cocktail
sausages.
I. V. V.
# *
“As civilisation advances, men arc becoming less
hairy.’’
Yet countless females can still skin men
of heavy fur coats.
* *
Earle Page says that his party will be
the “watchdog” of Australia. The trouble
with these political dogs is that they have
too many tales.
“Your wife is good at thes e old-timg
dances.”
“Urn — yes. Er—and as far as I know, at
the others, too.”
“He must be agile on his feet, with a quick ej’e
and nerves in perfect condition.”
No: the reference is not to' a pedestrian,
but to a batsman.
WARNING TO REFORMERS.
. “Petitioner admitted that she married respondent
in the hope of reforming him.”
Jf he should be of wayward bent
Your faith will not deflect him.
Be warned, sweet maid, by precedent;
A wedding won’t correct him.
Love’s rites will never put Mm right;
And, should you rashly halter him,
low, will, anon, bewail your plight.
The altar will not alter him!
P.O.M.C.
REVENONS A NOS MOUTONS!
“There is stagnation in the Australian mutton
export trade owing to the depression in the U.K.”
— “Age.”
Sing a song o’ sheep's head,
Chitterlings and chops;
While the market keeps dead
Exportation flops.
Summer’s soon returning;
Let’s hope the Lion’s roar
Will indicate he’s yearning
,For mutton as before.
N.


HARDY'S,TJNTAf?A wines
% V
J often nwndef w>kat the
Viniitm b**j)
One Half *>J>
as ills <M>od.
gj *
.* •
: 4
t
l
A
n mm
m
m.
■■'■■■ ■
1
m
■' -
m
mm
m 3
THE NEW BLUE PETROL
Have you tried C.O.R Plus —the new blue petrol ? This normal-
priced petrol is entirely different from any other petrol you have ever
used. It gives controlled combustion and REMARKABLE FREE-
DOM FROM PINKING in high compression engines, whilst to
old cars it brings A NEW LEASE OF LIFE.
C.O.R Plus is tinted blue to denote the presence of a special lead
compound —the secret of its amazing performance. This is guaranteed
positively harmless to any part of the most delicate engine.
The colour is the result of the addition of a minute quantity of in-
nocuous, blue aniline dye. It is there for your protection.
THE NEW C.O.R
PLUS DEFINITELY
ENSURES . . . .
INSTANT STARTING
+ AMAZING ACCEL-
ERATION + MORE
MILES PER GALLON
+ FULLEST POWER
+ WONDERFUL HILL
CLIMBING + FREE-
DOM FROM PINKING.
COR
PLUS
PLUS WHAT 7-
PLUS A LITTLE SOMETHING
OTHERS HAVE NT GOT
C.40/16/32
The Commonwealth Oil Ttefineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd),
Poolman St., Port Melb. 117 Pitt St., Sydney. Agents for S. Australia and Queensland : Dalgety & Co. Ltd.
Legal Notice.
yO IVY DOROTHY MARY FARRELL Married
Woman and E. DRAKE Electrician both fortflcrly
of Subiaco in the. State of Western Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that Citations bearing date the
Twentieth day of July One thousand Nine hundred
and Thirty-two have been issued out of the Supreme
Court of Western Australia citing you to appear
and answer the Petition of ALBERT CLARENCE
FARRELL of Pemberton in the said State Farm-
hand praying for dissolution of marriage. IN
DEFAULT of you so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition proved and
pronounce sentence therein. AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you are
within FORTY-FIVE DAYS after the date of the
last publication of this notice to attend in person
or by your Solicitor at the Central Office of the
Supreme Court of Western Australia and there to
enter an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose.
LS
HS T. F. DAVIES,
6-8-32 Registrar.
FRED CURRAN of Brown’s Buildings 193 Murray
Street Perth Solicitor for the Petitioner.
To be advertised :
(a) “The Sunday Times” Newspaper published at
Perth in the State of Western Australia. Three
advertisements with interval of Seven days
between each advertisement.
(b) The “Australasian” Newspaper published at Mel-
bourne in the State of Victoria. Two advertise-
ments with interval of Seven days between each
advertisement.
(c) “The Bulletin” Newspaper published at Sydney
in the State of New South Wales. Two adver-
tisements with interval of Seven days between
each advertisement. •
Public Notice.
BRITISH AUSTRALIAN WOOL REALI-
SATION ASSOCIATION, LIMITED
(In Liquidation).
MOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that alter the 15th
day of September, 1932, no further claims to
participate in the distribution of Assets of the above
Company will be dealt with by the Liquidators and
that any moneys then standing to the credit of the
Liquidators’ Distribution Accounts in respect of
which claims have not been established will immedi-
ately be paid to the Victorian Receiver of Revenue
to whom application must thereafter be made for
payment.
Dated this first day of September, 1932.
J. M. HIGGINS X Tij-i ni da tors
GHAS. R. MURPHY f liquidators.
540-542 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Legal Notice.
IN DIVORCE.
TO ROBERT JOIINf the ( Husband of
MARY AGNES CLARK? of Gfsforne in New
Zealand.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at
Gisborne citing you to appear and answer the
petition of MARA' AGNES CLARK of Gisborne
wherein she prays for a divorce on the ground that
you and she are parties to a Separation Order
made by a Stipendiary Magistrate in New Zealand
and the said order is still in force and has so
continued for not less than three years and such
Citation intimates that in default of your so
doing the Court will proceed to hear the said
Petition and to pronounce sentence therein not-
withstanding your absence. NOW' THEREFORE
TAKE NOTICE that, for the purpose aforesaid you
are within Thirty-five days after the date of this
publication to attend in person or by your Solicitor
at the Supreme Court Office at Gisborne and there
to enter an appearance without which you will not
be allowed to address the Court at any stage of
the proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same
at the Supreme Court Office at Gisborne, New
Zealand.
Bated this 22nd day of August, 1932.
[L.s.] JOHN N. NALUER,
Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to him the foregoing advertise-
ment.
THOMAS ALSTON COLEMAN is the Solicitor for
the Petitioner, whose address for service is at the
Office of Messrs. Coleman and Coleman, Solicitors,
No. 7G Lowe Street, Gisborne.
Position Wanted.
DOSITION required on station, any cap-
A acity. Seven yeai’s' experience all classes
station work. Now doing monthly return's.
Bachelor station preferred. References.
Age 31. Write C/o Bulletin.
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
U MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
Williamson Imperial Grand Opera Co.
KING'S THEATRE:
MARGARET RAWLINGS in
DR. PYGMALION.
The Union Bank of Australia, Limited
BALANCE-SHEET, 29th FEBRUARY, 1932.
LIABILITIES.
Capital authorised ..£12,000,000
Capital issued . . £12,000,000
Less: Reserve lia-
bility thereon . . 8,000,000
Paid up .. £4,000,000 0 0
Reserve fund .. 3,350,000 0 0
Currency reserve 1,500,000 0 0
Balance of un-
divided profits 170,963 15 10
Circulation . . £463,479 10 0
Deposits . . 35,844,650 6 2
Bills payable
and otlic r
liabilities .. 1,457,276 7 6
£37,765,406 3 8
£46,786,369 J 9 (i
ASSETS.
Spefcie on hand and cash balances. £10,390,119 6 3
Bullion and advances on bullion 104,901 1 8
Money at call and short notice
in London .. .. . . 425,000 0 0
Investments:—
On account of
reserve fund:—
British Gov-
e r n in e n t
securities ..£1,000,000 0 0
Other invest-
ments :
British Gov-
ern m e n t,
Common-
wealth of
A u s t r alia
Govern-
ment and
New Zealand
m u n icipal
securities.. 1,399,018 8 11
, 2,399,018 8 11
Balance of remittances and drafts
in transit, and bills receivable
at London office.. .. .. 2,685,058 17 11
£16,064,157 14
Bills discounted, loans and other
securities at the branches and
in London .. . . •• £30,341,366 19
(After making provision for bad
! and doubtful debts and con-
| ti agencies.)
j Bank premises in Australia and
New Zealand at cost, less
amounts written off .. • • 286,000 0
London leasehold
premises at cost £142,304 19 4
Less: Reserves
against same
and accrued in-
terest .. .. 48,059 14 1
j -ii 94,245 5
9
0
3
£46,786,369 19 6
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of undivided profits on 28th February, 1931
Lass: Dividend, July, 1931
~£170,010 6 1
80,000 0 0
Leaving a balance of ..
Profits of the past year, including amount transferred from Contingencies
Reserve to meet Exchange differences, since recovered, and after making-
appropriations towards Bad and Doubtful Debts and other Contingencies
£90,010 0 1
(all of which have been fully provided for)
1931 Less
Salaries and allowances to the Australian
£527,989 and New Zealand staff .. . ..£508,647
General expenses in Australia and New
Zealand —including rent, rates, stationery,
129 480 etc.
10,000 { Directors’ Fees .. . .£9666 13 4
2,518) Income tax paid thereon .. 3071 0 0
£1,138,538 8 4
Salaries of London office staff, audit fee,
rent, rates, stationery and general
55,967 expenses .. ••
United Kingdom, Australian and
230,579 Zealand taxes ..
128,101 7
12,737 13
New
54,248 15 11
273,849 17 3
977,584 18 7
£956,533
160,953 9 9
Less: Interim dividend, January, 1932
£250,963 15 10
80,000 0 0
Balance of undivided profits at this date .. • •
E W. PARKER, HUGH FLOWER, M. N. HOGG, Directors.
W. A. LAING, Manager. ,S. F. GARDNER, Accountant.
London, stli July, 1932.
.£170,963 15 10
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 134 of the Companies Act 1929, we report to tie
nWm Wc S h”fS,Ed-th. above kkiUt with .he boot* a, H»d OJk* and
the Branch Accounts transmitted to the Head Office from Australia and j 0 f Fxchange held in
the correctness of the Cash, Money at Call and Short Notice and the Bills exchange hen
London, and having obtained all the information and I0 " s ' ® correct view of the state of
*• *• - -
“ "535 S My' aml WHInS” SMITH .« OTIIMF.Y, Audlto*.
Australasian establishment
GENERAL MANAGER FOR AUSTRALASIA
HEAD OFFICE IN AUSTRALIA: MELBOURNE.
MANAGER AT MELBOURNE
W. A. LEITCH
F. C. BISHOP


25%
MORE MILEAGE
IN THIS
NEW SILENT TYRE
The actual road-service of thousands of the new Dunlop
“Gold Seal” Tyres—checked long before this new Dunlop
was officially announced proved, beyond doubt, the
ability of Dunlop “Gold Seal” to give 25% more mileage
—250 miles added to every 1,000!
Dunlop “Gold Seal” is unique also because of its SILENT
RUNNING. Its non-skid tread holds the road without a
whisper meeting “free-wheeling’s” call for full tyre
silence.
With no increase in price, Dunlop resources and know-
ledge have made possible this new MILEAGE and
SILENCE in addition to these outstanding improve-
ments in construction ....
TREAD 10% THICKER . . . CASING 100%
STRONGER . . . DOUBLE BUTTRESSED WALLS . . .
INCREASED AIR SPACE.. IMPROVED BEAD DESIGN
All Tyre Dealers now have complete stocks. If you are a keen
buyer—if you compare values—you will certainly buy Dunlop
.. .. the Great Australian Tyre—as British as the Empire!
mm,
SRKfS
a*.-?.
i ‘Vi
•■‘„< L .
3$
WV
t-i's
‘
m
m
m
ssSoRlispß&
'j<'-.'.i j-y^wV
k % *'4ss*3gjS
V v^V^S
a '
VV
3gs£j^
IS'Sv* >'* •'
fev
s®ss
*s**£*• : ’'
4 V
lii
; ?K
s'V^f
jf?ip3
&
ilp
f„*£
1
mi
:;<3!
i
l
m
a
*
fi
i
I :
rtf<
«
Tune in to 2UW for
description of the
Dunlop Road Race
on September 17
' WM
&
Up *
Si‘ : rVsSs"^
Is^MA
i-Js
■ik.H
&M
m
sj
.s.■!»*
Hr Y-v
■T o-v ■• v Ztl'-z'S #&3i
m
m
*. (
M!
/^5»
tmii
-jtda'S?:
•i < v ‘'v A >.*.i.-^?
Baaw««Btt^BtdßWHW
a
*5
*#4
yr.tt
a&jjp
sft
O
iSi&pdaa^jjfclr.
rw
r i' , />‘
gffSSqgBßs
3«i&
.-Tfc
®mm
g2k&s£i^g
SS
‘■^sr
«Er*&
.
%tt;
OT?
PiiJV
S
,«i
a»>i
**-*•
=o; r*:
mji:
S@»s
V'/mVL 7 ;
SCVtfAi-'riris
mm &
3fE6
■tr&'t!
asst*-
»••*>!
rfis&'y.
•^JV'.Vid
jjtfg^jgyyi
k?:-';
'c./ 1 iC
■V.V
:VB
B
**l
aj
rVvfv-
>‘*v # .
Sssg^s
i^.y
Vv
3SB
•>s
fij*'£fcVt*
.*S3
.Wj
•SfcfeiiSW
jyrssWtir,<*js.*
?SrSSSy
■; v --..v
• WHEN YOU BUY A NEW
TYRE—ALWAYS FIT A NEW
DUNLOP - PERDRIAU TUBE


THINKING AHEAD
The right kind of thinking ahead, of planning for the future,
is that which is instantly translated into action, when the
thinker, the planner, has decided upon the objective and the
means by which it may be obtained.
Every man or woman who so plans must take money into
consideration, and every man or woman who thinks must
realise how valuable a means the Savings Bank account can be.
It costs nothing, cannot be overworked, and pays an interest
profit commensurate with your tenacity of purpose.
ifanonrnltb Saving JIM of Australia
( E. C. RIDDLE, Governor.)
sdf
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILL
REMEMBER THIS
Many men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax. obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to:—
PRODUCERS S'CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors.: lion. A. K. Trethowan. M.S.C. Managing Director: 11. Id.
I-lead Office: 1\ & C. Building, corner Elizabeth A- Bathurst Streets, Syonev.
Js.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
gs. Agency Co., Ltd.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
PROPOSED SUPER. SUBSIDY.
“Yeoman”: The Wheat Producers’ Free-
dom Association of South Australia has a
proposal for helping wheatgrowers to carry
on ; it is that super, used next year be sub-
sidised by the Federal Government to the
extent of £2 10s. per ton. The association
recognises that the Commonwealth cannot
afford to find £4,000,000 with which to pay
a bounty of 4|d. per bushel on the approach-
ing harvest. It does not suggest that the
super, subsidy will bridge the gap between
the returns from that harvest and the cost
of putting in the next crop; but argues
that it will go some distance towards doing
it. Moreover, it will ensure an increased
output and cheaper production per bushel.
About 700,000 tons of super, are now
used in a season for cereal production, of
which 91 p.c. represents wheat. A subsidy of
£2 10s. per ton would lower the cost to a
figure which would stimulate an increased
dressing of, say, 40 p.c. per acre, bringing tin-
total quantity used for cereals up to 1000,000
tons. On that'basis the subsidy would be
worth £2,500,000 to farmers. Owing, how-
ever, to the increased output, and by reason
of the Federal Government paying such a
large cash subsidy, it is probable that the
super, cos. would give a substantial rebate.
State railways could also make a concession
with regard to freights, and possibly there
are other avenues worth exploring for the
purpose of effecting a saving. For these'
reasons the subsidy might not cost the
Federal Government more than £2.000,000.
On a conservative estimate an increase of
40 p.c. in the average dressing of super,
would be responsible for an increased yield
of 14 bushels per acre. That, over the Com-
monwealth wheat average, would mean an
extra 24.000.000 bushels, which, at Bs. 4d.
per bushel, would add £4,000,000 of real
wealth to the resources of farmers. That
sum, added to the £2,500,000 value of the
subsidy, would increase the assistance
afforded farmers to £6,500.000. or 60 p.c.
more than would be received from the
bounty But, there is this striking difference:
the bounty would cost twice as much as the
super, subsidy; farmers would be £2 500.000
worse off in the final analysis; Australia
would he £4,000.000 worse off because of
tho' difference in production between the
two methods of rendering assistance.
Another feature in favor of the super,
subsidy is that it would render most assist-
ance to those farmers in the poorer districts
who need it most. It would protect farmers
from themselves, by promoting increased
production in a way which many farmers
cannot afford to carry out to-day. In other
words it would make for efficiency by elim-
jnating the chance of the Commonwealth’s
largesse going into non-essentials.
* ' "
PTTTT- mvmTwn T ,vii> vrresitt? AT TA
BULK-HANDLING FOR \\ ESI RAIMA.
“Salmon Gum”: Is it worth while.
“Wodgil” (B. 8/8/’32) deals with only one
side of the question; he does not mention
that the present .system has advantages
which would be lost in bulk-handling. For
instance, farmers get a low rate on manures
conveyed by the railways during the summer
months, when the trucks may be back-loaded
with wheat, thus obviating much empty
running. The truck's now in use would
require some alterations for bulk wheat
ian expense which would react on the
farmers), and it might bo found impos-
sible to use grain trucks for cartage of
super. Then super, and grain trucks would
both travel empty one way.
Overseas marketing is another factor
which should not be overlooked. Much of
our Westralian wheat is shipped to' India,
China and Japan, where few ports are
equipped for bulk-handling. Bagged wheat
may be shipped to any port in the world
without suffering any penalty for being in
bags. Bulk wheat, however, is at a distinct
disadvantage at ports not equipped with
elevators. Thus bagged wheat has an
appreciably wider market than bulk.
Now, take the average farmer’s point of
view. From the commencement of harvest-
ing. all efforts are concentrated on remov-
ing the crop in the least possible time,
Carting becomes a secondary consideration,
particularly in the case of a farmer having
only sufficient horses for the harvester, with
possibly one waggon team to spare. If bulk-
handling is adopted, either he must have
sufficient bags to hold the crop, since he
cannot cart from any distance as quickly
as he can harvest, or his machine must lie
idle part of the time. As the danger of loss
from (ires, hail and wind increases as the
season progresses, the latter course is
obviously impossible.
Finally, Westralian Farmers require, as
a condition of their scheme, a handling
monopoly of all wheat. This amounts to the
establishing of a compulsory pool, and the
cockies’ attitude towards that was amply
demonstrated when the suggestion was put
forward by the Federal Government three
years ago.
SOUTH BURNETT METHODS.
“A.F.S.”: In the South Burnett (Q.)
this season . the summer rains were late
and maize crops failed. The farmers
carted off the stalks, while green and threw
them to the cows. Then they planted n.
the same unploughed paddocks oats and
wheat for winter cow-fodder. And the
winter-fodder question was settled. Th°
cows have been milking well, and in some
instances they have been in full milk the
whole winter. - The Murgon butter factory,
serving something like 1,000 suppliers, manu-
factured 171 tons of butter during the cold
month of July; there are three other
factories.
The South Burnett has been famous for its
maize and its potatoes. But would it not
be more profitable for the. dairymen, with
their big herds, to grow cow fodder instead
or maize and potatoes? Where are the
stacks and silos? This part has. seen good
season after good season, and when the dry
spell comes there is nothing. There could
be an all-round increase in production
throughout the normal, season, a great in-
crease in the winter months, and plenty in
time of drought. But there is hardly even
a haystack to be seen anywhere in this great
dairying district.
CARRIAGE OF LINSEED MEAT.,
“Wodgil”: The increasing use of linseed
meal as part of a ration for dairy cattle
is a dashed good thing for Australia. That
methods of feeding can be improved in this
country is indicated by the fact that the
average production of our dairy cows is
only 290 gallons of milk per annum, com-
pared with 574 gallons, in Britain, 571 in
Denmark, 520 in Germany and 445 in Nor-
way. In 1929 an Australian herd produced
the equivalent of 21731 b. of butter; in the
same months of the following year it pro-
duced 40901 b. The difference was chiefly
attributable to scientific feeding with lin-
seed meal as part of the ration.
A recent correspondent complained of the
price of linseed meal. It could be brought
down if transport charges were not so out-
rageous. At Meggitt’s annual meeting tin*
chairman mentioned that it. costs 12 13s. Id.
per ton to send linseed meal from Adelaide
to Fremantle; this includes freight, and
handling charges. From Sydney to Cairns
the cost is £2 17s. 3d. per ton. On the
N. S. Wales railways the rates, are corres-
pondingly high. The aim of our common
carriers should be to assist o reduction,
especially as they stand to gain from in-
crease. In this case they arc doing their
best, to retard it.
QUEENSLAND PIGS FOR EXPORT.
“Rivoli": In 1930 Denmark sent bacon
valued at £27,635,700 to the United King-
dom —just on £17.500,000 more than the
value of all its imports from Britain. During
the same year the Irish Free State exported
£2,582,000 worth of live pigs. £1,210.700
worth of fresh pork, and £1,831,300 worth of
bacon and hams—practically all to Britain.
In effect, Britain offers a magnificent market
to pig-raisers, and it is absolutely certain
that Australia, especially Queensland, can
get an increased share of this market if it
produces the goods. Realising this, Queens-
land’s Royal National Association provided
special prizes for export porkers and
baconers at its recent Show. In respect of
baconers it was disappointed. Six pens of
five pigs each were entered; not one con-
formed to the schedule of ISOlb. to 2001 b.
live-weight. So the exhibits wore judged as
heavy bacon pigs suitable for local require-
ments. ,
For the export porker class conditions pro-
vided for pens of five suitable for export, any
breed or cross, weight 601 b. to 851 b. First
prize went to J. J. Slack, second to the
brothers Gnech and third to A. Alford. The
judge was E. J. Shelton, Senior Instructor
in Pig-raising for the Department of Agri-
culture and Stock. He described the three
prize pens as neat, attractive, lengthy
porkers; by contrast, other exhibits were
light baconers; others again, heavy store
pigs. Mr. Shelton is strong for the white
breeds. In his opinion the Middle White
is the breed most suitable for the overseas
export trade; for heavier weights, he
favors the Large White mated with the
Middle White, lie considers that next year
the conditions should be amended to pro-
vide for the export of all pens considered
suitable.
According to Mr. Shelton the pigs that
realise the highest prices at Smithfield arc
given a thousand times more care than is ordin-
arily the case, on a Queensland farm. These
Show exhibits constituted •an exception;
their owners had obviously attempted to
pen five pigs as even in type and weight as
possible, and the stock had been well fed
and prepared for judging.
With an eye to this export trade the
Queensland Meat Industry Board, which
operates the central abattoir at Cannon Hill,
has made special arrangements for pig-
breeders. It takes charge of pig-s which
conform to the standard from the time they
are delivered in the yards until the carcasses
are placed on board the steamer for con-
veyance to London; and all for fd. per
pound. Killing, scalding, dressing, chilling,
freezing and delivery from abattoir to
steamer are carried out in the most modern
fashion.
CULTIVATION OF SALTBUSH.
“.Tames” : A great need in those spacious
parts of Australia which suffer from dry. hot
summers, though winter rainfall is ample, is
a fodder which will supply green feed during
the months of drought. Lucerne requires
too much moisture to produce a given quan-
tity of dry matter. What about saltbush?
The creeping saltbush (Atriplex semibac-
eatu-m) has been sown and cultivated suc-
cessfully in California, Arizona and New
Mexico. - also at the Waite Institute (S.A.Y.
Though the plant is a free-seeder, I have
found it impossible to obtain any quantity
of seed from city merchants. However, seed
may be easily obtained close to Melbourne,
where the plant i.s growing wild. It should
be possible to get at least a 60 per cent,
germination if the seed is sown during the
winter months on a prepared seedbed. Dur-
ing the first summer saltbush will yield a
much greater bulk of forage than lucerne.
It has yet to be generally proved that it
will persist from year to year, but on the
bayside flats at Werribee it has been grow-
ing for years. It is also more tolerant of
salty conditions than lucerne. It, responds
to a mixed manure made up of super, and
a nitrogenous manure and grows well on
clay loams; I ha ye also seen it thriving on
sandy soils.
It is doubtful whether saltbush. will
stand up against the competition of winter-
growing weeds. It may be necessary to sow
with it some Phalaris, to prevent the weeds
coming in.
WOOL-SORTING V. CLASSING
“Sluiep-oh”: Japanese buyers are com-
plaining about the way some of the fleece
lines bought by them last, season have been
prepared for market; they say more of their
trade will go to S’Afriea unless our wool is
got up better. Why is sorting in prefer-
ence to present-day classing not gone in for?
The wool contained in almost every fleece
varies in spinning qualities. Buyers in the
market for a line, of 64’s don t want to waste
time valuing a lot of wool that contains
anything from SB’s to 64’s. Evenness is
what is. wanted. At those few sheds where
sorting is carried out the results obtained
have proved satisfactory. Wool-classers are
not supposed :to be wool-sorters, but should
know enough about the business to be able
to get up the fleece lines on a quality basis.
The cost to the grower would be very little
more; any extra labor entailed would be
more than balanced by better competition
received and higher values. The time will
come when sorting will be carried out. in
most of our big sheds; there’s no time like
the present to start.
THE FARMER’S BOOKSHELF.
“Cincinn”: There are half a dozen books
that a mixed-farmer ought to have: “Home
Doctoring of Animals,” by Leeney; “Feeds
and Feeding,” by Henry; “Poultry-farming
in N.5.W..” by Iladlington; “The Australian
Dairyman’s Handbook,” by Maynard; and
“Pigs and Their Management,” by Potts. You
must have a pretty good idea of the contents
of these books before you fly to them for
help; but you will never find them wanting
in an emergency.
Reading maketli a full man, and especially
is this true of farmers. Some of my Tas.
neighbors used to grin when I mentioned
sterilised bonemeal. iodine and the like.
When I quoted The Bulletin they guf-
fawed good-naturedly; the M.O.L. pages had
then been going for about 18 months. What
I have since effected with the aid of
Bulletin hints has made them sit up and
take notice.
I bought recently for a few pounds a very
fine stamp of a draught mare suffering from
“heaves” and thought to be barren. I con-
suited Looney on '“heaves” and found linseed
boiled in water was the main thing, poured
over her chaff. Henry told me that crushed
linseed, which is two-thirds of the price of
whole linseed, contains ‘only about two per
cent, of oil, which is the essential ingredient
for “heaves.” The mare is now able to do
steady work. Also, it has every appearance
of being in foal, thanks to iodine and
Bulletin recommendations.
YOUNG FARMERS’ CLUBS.
“Country Red": There are over 2,0C0j000
members of Young Farmers’ Clubs in U.S.A.,
where these clubs are backed by Govern-
ments, agricultural societies and railway
companies. In Victoria the movement is
steadily progressing; in Ballarat alone
there are over 300 members, who have
raised the Ballarat Show to the very front
rank, while their own Show in the autumn
lasts, two days. These clubs, which really
began in England 30 years ago, are de-
signed to stem the drift from the country
to the city, and to make boys and girls
enterprising and self-reliant.
To start a club there is no need to wait
for the local teacher to become enthusiastic.
Gall a meeting of parents and put the matter
plainly before them. Elect a small com-
mittee. a club leader, and a secretary. En-
list the help of the local Agricultural.
Society or Herd-testing Association; then?
with the help of the Agricultural Depart-
ment experts, determine to secure for the
boys and girls purebred stock. This will
be, a difficulty, but with forethought and
energy obstacles can be overcome. In \ ic-
toria there are clubs whose young members
are the proud owners of calves, pigs, sheep,
fowls, vegetable plots, orchard strips, potato
areas and commercial flower gardens, for
which they have to work and plan and pay
but of the profits.
The teacher is usually the secretary of
the committee. He keeps things moving by
planning debates between the members, and
arranging for lectures by bankers and other
experts, field days on outstanding farms,
and judging contests. Book-keeping, which
The Bulletin has so often stressed as a
necessity on a farm, is an essential part
of the training.
CLEARING VINE SCRUB.
“Booraby”: In clearing the vine scrub,
which clothes rich soil in our eastern parts,
the first step is to tackle the undergrowth
with a brushhook. Care has to be taken
to leave nothing swinging that would come
within reach of the axe. Brushing is simple
work, but all the while the worker must
keep in mind the job to follow; he
is clearing the way for the axe, and lie
must have safe room on at least two sides
to swing it. You can’t brush much growth
that is thicker than whipsticks; saplings
and small trees, if they can be brought
down, encumber the ground with their tops.
Where it is necessary to cut a small tree or
two away from a big one, it is better to chop
it off at the ground and shove it aside,
leaving it standing, or cut it off again
higher up. In most cases the top is held,
and it is, sometimes necessary for want of
room to use a pruning saw for the top
cut.
While brushing you must note the posi-
tion of the big trees, which way they lean,
and the general distribution of the timber.
This enables you to choose an effective
driving tree for each section of the scrub.
Growths you have to beware of are the
stinging trees, stinging shrubs, cough bush
and lawyer vines.
If the scrub is on sloping ground begin
with the axe at the bottom; but whether
it slopes or not be careful at every tree
that you don’t set a death-trap for your-
self. If the outside trees are free you can
cut them down, but you may work for days
without felling one. Cut the trees only
partly through, merely nicking the small
ones; when you have thus gone over
a wide patch cut down a big tree, which
carries the whole tangled mass with it in
a single drive.
Many scrub wrnods are soft; others very
hard; some are tough and have to be cut
in more than the brittle sort that snap
off easily. A nice judgment of the differ-
ent woods saves axcwork and lessens the
risk of a premature fall. When the lot goes,
the reefing vines and snapping branches
make it dangerous for a limited space be-
hind the drive, so that the choice of a
driving tree with a good get-away at the
back of it, and free of long vines in that
direction, is important. After the drive,
examine the face of the standing scrub for
hanging limbs. Where there are giant' fig
trees, make your drive, if possible, so as
to leave them on the outside of the uncut
portion. AVhere it can be done, it is better
to drop them singly.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
I find it unpayable to send wool lodes and
second pieces to Sydney. Is it worth while
(Continued on next paye.)


H
Extra strength built in!
Not only is the Abbey
Cossack’s sole made of twice
the usual thickness of the
toughest Australian leather
. . . .its upper, too, is doubled.
The lining throughout is soft
leather, snug and easy-fitting.
The Abbey Cossack is a boot
made for comfort and service
under the roughest conditions
and in all weathers. It outlasts
any ordinary boot.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete).
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 407-
Black Box Calf . . . . 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 297
IF
you desire to reach that section of
the N.Z. public that moulds the buy-
ing habits of the rest;
IF
you have a message for New Zealand-
ers who have more money to spend
on more commodities than the many;
IF
your goal is a market with the maxi-
mum capacity to respond to your
advertising efforts, then cover the
Wellington Province, the highest in
spending power, by using the most
effective medium,
Clk Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
’Phone: 85241.
sdf
sdfs
dfsdf
“EOTHEN
sd
128 East Terrace
332 Wakefield St
ADELAIDE
UNEXCELLED CUISINE
h GARAGE
[ncliuive Tariff, £4-4-0
** Central 528
PAYING GUESTS Mr., parker
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — . think of
I
A^VV
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Oifiiu: 44 Bridit Sireer. Sydney.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines .excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Ilobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street. .
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN COUNTING-
ARRANGEMENTS FOR TOTALISATOR
AND OTHER TOTALISING
APPARATUS.
'THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 29095/30 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Supreme in Its Own
Field!
THE PERTH
(1) The largest paper in Western
Australia.
(2) Each issue leads in News and
Advertising.
(3) Its Country circulation is un-
equalled.
(4) The Metropolitan sales are
“home - delivery” circulation,
therefore most valuable.
(5) Foundation Member Audit
Bureau of Circulations.
NATIONAL ADVERTISERS!
This Great Advertising Medium
puts you in touch with a valuable
market in the West.
TRY IT NOW!
BRITAIN —MaKe Your Totir Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman” —8i hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED.
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: K. V. BOOTH
having them scoured prior to loading on
train? Scouring cost is lid. per pound
scoured weight, plus small freight cost
to and from the scour: the rail freight of
the scoured wool would he about half that
of wool in grease, and I understand storage
charges are less. —ls9B.
Not advisable. The market for country-
scoured wool is limited, especially for locks
and pieces, and prices are lower than for
the same type of wool in its greasy state.
Manufacturers invariably have to rescour
this wool to suit their standard of work
and, furthermore, scoured wool cannot be
re-classed or sorted to any extent.
(1) When and how were Corrledale sheep
first bred? (2) How does the wool compare
v ith merino ? —1591.
(1) Breeders in M.L. are credited with
the first success, in 1874, but the same line
of breeding was being carried out in Aus-
tralia at the same time. The Corriedale is
an inbred halfbred, and the present-day
Corriedale must la 1 the result of crossing
the Lincoln and the merino, selections of
the progeny being inbred together. (2)
Corriedale wool is coarser and has greater
length. It is usually about 56’s quality, with
a range slightly finer and slightly coarser.
The sheep cut bulky fleeces and the wool
usually commands good prices in the market,
being similar to some types of superfine
crossbred or comeback wool.
My sheep are suffering from foot trouble,
the symptoms of which arc heat, a watery
discharge between the toes and a separation
of the horny sole from the fleshy sole.
Name of the disease and treatment? —ls47.
The condition described is footrot, of
which there can be two types, one attack-
ing the feet on the sole surface at its
junction with hoof wall, the other caus-
ing a breaking out on the coronets. The
feet should be trimmed with a sharp
pair of hoof-trimming secateurs or a sharp
knife, and all diseased and broken horn re-
moved. The sheep .should then be passed
through a footbath 18ft. long and 4in. deep,
with a little wool on the floor of the bath,
containing a solution of lib. Milestone to
each gallon of water or a formalin solution
gallon to 7 gallons of water for bad
cases, and for those not so severe. 1 gallon to
15 gallons of water. Affected sheep should
bo passed through the footbath twice a
week and kept on dry ground. It is wet
conditions which predispose the sheep to the
disease.
In buying Shropshire, Southdown, Leices-
ter, Lincoln, Romney Marsh and merino
rams what would' be the chief characteristics
to note, or a few of the salient points P-1691.
-1691.
Full descriptions of British sheep are
contained in “Flock Book for British Breeds
of Sheep in Australia,” Yol. XXII; better
get hold of it. The most suitable type of
merino ram for your locality (C.-W. Q. ) is
a big-framed sheep of medium-quality wool,
without body wrinkles and of very strong
constitution. The animal should be evenly
covered, the wool of good length, showing
character and quality, good handle and pleas-
ing lustre. The ram should show a likelihood
of getting stock like itself.
I am using a charcoal fumigator for
rabbits. What chemical could I use to pro-
duce a heavy smoke to show up openings?
If it were asphyxiating, so much the better.
—1468.
Heat a heavy lubricating oil until it gives
off vapor and blow' this vapor into' the bur-
rows. Heavy smoke may also be generated
by burning old motor tyres or cotton waste
saturated with oil in a more or less confined
space. As an alternative, fireworks sold
under the name of Bengal Fire, Mount Etna,
etc., give off a good deal of wdiite smoke
when ignited.
Every year I have a quantity of grapes
not up to standard. I have a notion of using
them for unfermented grape juice, as is done
in the tI.S.A. How is such a beverage pre-
pared?—l6so.
The grapes are crushed, and skins and
stalks separated from the juice. The juice
is twice sterilised to prevent fermentation.
The first sterilising could be done in a
copper or enamel pan, heating steadily until
the juice commences to simmer, not allowing
to boil. Simmer for 10 minutes. The juice
can then be strained or filtered and placed
in a clear jar or receptacle which has been
sterilised with boiling water. In this it
can be left for a few days to a week, in
which time it will throw a sediment. Pour
off or .syphon off and bottle. Place the
bottles in a copper on a wooden false
bottom, fill the copper with water and gradu-
ally apply heat until nearly boiling, but avoid
boiling. Allow to remain in the water at
a temperature just over 200 deg. Fahr. for
about one hour, then remove the fire and
allow to cool before removing the bottles.
On removing when cool, stack the bottles
on their sides. A sediment will probably be
found if allowed to remain for any length
of time, and, if decanting, the juice will re-
quire another sterilising. If making on a
large scale, good filters would be necessary,
and the practice of clarifying by quick
fining material would have to be resorted
to. It should be added that numerous
attempts to popularise this beverage in Aus-
tralia have failed.
Method of treating beeswax, after the
honey has been extracted, to eliminate im-
purities ? —1579.
There are two methods: (a) Cut up the
wax, place it in a large vessel, and heat
gently over a fire until it is qu ; te liquid,
then strain through a very fine strainer or
coarse muslin. (ft) Cut up the Avax into
a tin and add a considerable quantity of
water; heat until all the Avax is melted,
then remove from the fire and allow to be-
come cold. The clean cake of wax will float
and. may be removed and scraped clean
along the bottom; the impurities will sink
in the water.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Sativa”: One advantage of the shower-
batli dip over the “sAvim” (B. 31/8/\32) is
that the sheep are not knocked about, and
consequently ewes, weak-conditioned or
heavy in lamb, or young lambs can safely
be included in the dipping. Shower for 10
minutes a month after shearing. I have
used this method for the past 20 years and
it keeps my sheep free from lice and ticks.
“Cockyson”;' In times of scarcity don’t
destroy those patches of dry blady grass;
chaffed and mixed with molasses, the grass
makes good fodder, cattle eating it readily.
Other rank grass that cattle ordinarily turn
up their noses at can be made acceptable
by chaffing, and adding to it a pint or two
of molasses.
“L.E.A.”: To prevent an animal getting
tangled in the tether rope, attach a ring to
each end of a light pole a little longer than
the beast to be tethered. Slip the rope
through the rings, and tie it in place so
that there will be just enough rope between
halter and pole to prevent the animal from
lifting it off the ground.
“W. 0.”: I lost a horse through what was
apparently colic. When the animal that
replaced him showed unmistakeable signs of
the same trouble. I experimented with a
packet of Epsom salts and enough linseed-
oil cake to make, with hot water, a gallon
of just-movable mash, and an equal quantity
of chaff, the lot barely cool enough for him
to eat. On the two occasions I have given
it the stuff worked a magic cure. But you
must act promptly.
“The Breaker”: Try this when riding a
girth-galled horse. TTse the girth as a breast-
plate, by merely passing it round the prad’s
shoulders, and buckling it on the girth-
straps. The surcingle will he sufficient to
keep the .saddle from rolling, and the girth
breastplate helps also.
“Floodmrk” : For greasy heels, try to get
the ponies into a light condition for a time
and give a dose of physic. After cleaning
the leg thoroughly, apply antiphlog. on
gauze, with the gauze next to skin. Leave
on for 24 hours, remove and wash leg with
warm water, carefully dry and apply a mix-
ture of loz. copper sulphate and loz. alum
to 1 quart of water. Repeat daily. Zinc
ointment will soften the skin if it hardens.
“Karaway”: It’s a good idea to test if
your horse will take you straight home
from any part of the bush, day or night,
by giving him his head. Then you’ll know
if you can trust to his homing instinct
when you’re lost.
“Willeroo”: A cart tyre at iimes gets
loose on hard roads in hot weather, through
excessive drying of the felloes and the ex-
pansion of the heated iron. If there is
danger of its coming off on the wav, drive
slowly through water for a little while, and
the wheel will tighten up again. If no
water is convenient, and you have a carter’s
tools in the emergency box, drive a thin
wedge, or a couple of horse-shoe nails, in
a joint or two of the felloes. This saves
the wheel from being knocked about, where-
as a piece of wire round the tyre and
felloe, a common temporary remedy, doesn’t.
“Minthall” : Having a surplus of chokos a
neighbor in the Campbelltown (N.S.W.) dis-
trict fed his dairy cows with barrow-loads of
them. The milk flow increased, and the
cows put on condition. Chokos are great
bearers; a four-year-old plant of mine carried
675 this season.
“E.H'.M.”: A cheap and effective way of
ridding broad beans of the black fly is to
paint infected parts with a solution of water
and soil; the mud will smother the flies.
The plants may be cleaned by spraying with
water a day or two later.
“Wcrrimee”: To- saw a bent or crooked
post so that it will be quite level on top
when erected, lay a batten along it from
what will be the ground level, then put
a square on the batten and mark it where
the post is to be cut.
“Friar Tuck”: A way of getting rid of
ants. Pile very fine dry sand or wood ashes
on top of their nest, so that it will run down
into the holes. The more they try to clear
away the sand, the more they push it in,
and they soon quit the nest in disgust.
“Jack O’Lantern”: There are too many
figures for me in these formulas for
measuring the capacity of circular tanks
(B. 20/7/’32) and (B.' 3/8/’32). I prefer
to multiply the diameter by half the diameter,
then by the depth, and add an 0. Take, for
example, a tank sft. in diameter by 6ft. deep ;
5x2 J = 121 x 6 = 75; add 0 = 750 gallons.
This is a tank sold as SOOgals.; but it isn’t.
“R.H.P.”; Another way of making neats-
foot oil (B. 24/8/’32). Save up bullocks'
feet until you have 24 or 30 —you can get
them for nothing from most butchers. Boil
slowly in a drum or pot for 24 hours. Have
a petrol-tin ready; cut out top, punch a
nail-hole in one bottom corner and fit a
small pine plug in it. Now get a clean
piece of hessian and tie firmly over top of
tin for a strainer. While the liquid is still
hot skim it, water and oil, and when tin
is about half-full pull out ping and keep
skimming the pot—the water will all run
away. Be sure at the last to tilt the tin
on the corner so that only water will run
out. Plug up as soon as you see clean oil
coming, and pour off into a gallon tin.
Thirty hooves, well boiled, will make a gallon
of nice clean oil.
“Nemo”; Empty 8-gallon petrol drums can
be cut down into very good billies. Make
them in two sizes so that one is small enough
to fit inside the other.
“Karaway”; If the tenons of a window
sash are broken or rotted, and the window
is falling to pieces, don’t fasten it together
with long nails. Cut right-angled pieces of
tin the width of the wood, and to go 3in.
along each piece from the broken corner, and
secure with tacks. If the wood is decaying,
put a piece on each side.
“Werrimee”: To cure a dog of eating eggs,
dip the nest eggs in a solution of caustic
soda and replace them when dry. The
moisture of the mouth acts quickly on the
soda, and Barker will rarely try a second
dose.
A Westralian pastoral ist, ,1. E. Lord, of
Windimurra. Mt. Magnet, is getting good
results with sheepfly-traps made of 21-gallon
oil drums, or 44-gallon petrol drums, cut in
half and baited with skinned kangaroo,
opened well up with a knife. These vessels are
three-parts filled with the mixture used for
poisoning ’roos; a jam-tin of arsenic boiled
in three gallons of water with half a jam-
tin of washing soda will make 50 gallons
of poison. The bait will last a fortnight,
n”d the traps should be hung in trees away
from wells.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Station hand (23), N.S.W., wants employment any-
where. Refs. —1817.
Clydesdale man, exp. in preparing stock for English
shows, also exp. with Border Leicester rams and
Shorthorn bulls, wants job as stud groom.—l7Bs.
By hospital-trained nurse, position in care of
delicate child on station anywhere, or travelling.
—1756.
Grocery traveller (26), Sydney, well educated,
five years’ exp., connection Sydney and country,
seeks position.—l 769.
Partner for market garden, Moss Vale (N.S.W.),
cabbages, potatoes, etc., land and plant available.
—1796.
To get in touch with firms in Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane, trading with Netherlands East Indies,
Malaya, China and Japan.—lBoB.
Exchange morocco-bound volume Shakspeare’s-
Tragedies, new, 1300 pp., for Chambers’s “Twentieth
Century Dictionary” or rhyming dictionary, or will
buy.—l 794.
To buy Frank Morton’s “Man and the Devil’’
(1922), Lindsay’s “Petronius” (1910), McCrae’s
“Idyllia” (1920), R. L. Stevenson’s “Object of
Pity” and “Father Damien,’’ “Birth,” Australian
Poetry Magazine (1916-22). —1774.
To buy books relating to the Pacific Islands and
Australian aborigines.—l77s.
To buy, second-hand, book on wood carving by-
Paul Hasluck. —1735.
Words of “Nine Miles from Gundagai” and “I've
a White Man Working for Me.” —1751.
Words of verse by “Ironbark,” commencing “When
a feller comes to Sydney for a flutter with his
cheque.”—l73l.
Words of verse “Maloney’s Cockatoo,’’ also verse
about a phantom horse containing the ie.e, “He took
the pump from Harvey’s Well, the dairy he went
through.”—l749.
Information Sought.
(1) What accessories do I require to
operate a Hughes electrictil induction bal-
ance? (2) Number of turns of wire on
primaries. (3) Where can I obtain con-
structional details ? —1685.
(1) A pair of headphones, a microphone,
two or three dry cells, and a clock. (2)
100 metres (328 ft.) of No. 32 gauge silk-
covered wire wound on a boxwood spool.
The two coils are connected in series. (3)
“Standard Electrical Dictionary,” by Sloane,
from Angus and Robertson.
(1) John Brownlee's age? (2) When did
he start haring his voice trained? (3)
When and where did he first sing in public?
—1592.
(1) 31. (2) At the age of eighteen he
became a pupil of Ivor Boustead in Mel-
bourne, later receiving tuition from Dinh
Gilly in Paris. (3) At South-street (Balla-
rat) competitions. Ilis first appearance in
opera was in “Lakme” on October 6, 1925.
in Paris.
The staghorns in my hush-house are
riddled with holes made apparently by grubs
(samples submitted). Any remedy? —lsBB.
All that can be done is to remove and
burn the infested portions. This operation
may have to be repeated several times be-
fore you can control this pest.
A sells a farm to B on terms, interest
payable yearly. B dies and bares the farm
to be administrated by a trustee co. If
the farm showy a loss on the gear's work-
ing can A claim his interest from the trus-
tee co., or has the co. right to defer pay-
ment?—lBol.
The administrators of B’s estate stand
in the position he occupied with regard to the
liabilities incurred by him, and unless the
payment of interest was, by agreement,
made dependent on l the profits or losses of
the farm, they have no ground for with-
holding it.
What does it cost to legally adopt an
orphan? How are costs made up? —lB2o.
The usual course in all the States, with
slight variation, is to obtain an order from
the Equity Court on the application of
the adopting parents. There is no Stan-
dard of costs but in an ordinary case they
should not exceed a few pounds.
A water meter is in use on the highest
point of a comparatively small urban sys-
tem. Consumer insists that registration is
excessive. During the summer months the
water is shut off for rationing purposes, and
consumer has seen the meter indicator spin
round 200 gallons when the water is turned
on after a shut-off, due to air passing
through at high pressure, Any explanation?
—1492.
The phenomenon referred to is possible
if a main were rapidly re-charged after
becoming depleted, and if at the same time
the taps on the consumer’s service were
left open. Such occurrences are, however
rare, and could not occur in a properly
equipped reticulation system provided with
air-valves.
Is sump oil suitable for oiling u jar rah
weather-board house ? —I73S.
Most unsuitable, as it is filthy stuff, dries
badly, and contains a great deal of carbon-
aceous material and ground metal. The
proper oil is best pure linseed.
W/mt adhesive will stick glass to glass?
Make a paste of 4oz. dry slaked lime,
loz. powdered alum, and soz, fresh white
of egg. Use quickly.
(1) If a stone flung out from under the
tyre of a passing motor-car should strike
and injure a pedestrian on the footpath, or
break a shop-window, could a claim for
damages be made? If. so. wli 0 would be
liable, the local council or the motorist? (2)
If a jjassing motorist should splosh a pedes-
trian on the footpath with mud, could a
claim he made? —lBs2.
in either case an action could be founded
only on negligence, which has been defined
to consist in "the omission to do something
which a reasonable man would do, or
doing something which a reasonable man
would not do,” or on deliberate malice. It
would be practically impossible in either
case to prove such grounds either against
the driver of the vehicle or the local body.
(1) What is the difference between 10 deg.
below zero and 10 deg. below freezing, Fahren-
heit? (2) What would the equivalent read-
ings be on a Centigrade thermometer? (3)
How many francs equalled £1 sterling a l
par in 1912, and what is the par rate of
exchange to-day ? —ISS7.
(1) 32deg., since freezing point. Fahr.
is 32deg. (2) lOdeg. below zero, Fahr. is
the same as 23 : I[deg. 1 [ deg. below zero, C.;
lOdeg. below freezing. Fahr., is the same
as 5.55 deg. above zero, C. (3) 1912, par
25.22; 1932, par 124.21; actual, about 88.
Mg car has a fabric hood which has
faded. If I gave it a coat of oil dressing
(such as used for re-oiling oilskin coats),
and then gave it a coat of leather lacquer
or hood dressing, would the result be satis-
factory?—l674.
No; you can’t lacquer successfully over
oil. Brush and clean the hood thoroughly,
mend all holes and worn places, and then
give several coats of a good hood dressing,
obtainable in black or clear from Anthony
Horderns’, Sydney, 4s. 3d. a quart.
(1) Recipe for varnish for an oalc dining-
room table , to withstand boiling water? (2)
Recipe for a very hard varnish? —1578.
(1) Boil 31b. linseed oil in a copper vessel.
While it is boiling suspend in the oil, so that
it does not touch the bottom of the vessel,
a bag containing Goz. minium and lOoz.
litharge, both finely powdered. When the
oil has acquired a deep brown color take
out the bag and replace it with one con-
taining a small piece of garlic. Finally
melt 21b. yellow amber with 4oz. linseed
oil and add to the boiling mixture! Stir for
four and a half minutes. Allow the mixture
to cool, and then store in stoppered bottle.
This is applied very thinly with a small sponge,
four coats being necessary. (2) Melt 40
parts chalk, 40 parts resin. 4 parts linseed
oil. in an iron pot. Then add 1 part native
oxide of iron and 1 part sulphuric acid.
Apply hot. with a brush.
What islands comprise the Northern Gil-
bert group? Their respective populations,
areas and chief industries? Do all the
islands afford safe anchorage for small
vessels ? —1572.
There are four islands. Little Makin has
a length of 21 miles by a breadth of half a
mile. The principal product is copra and
the population is about 670. Butaritari is
11 miles from east to west. Copra is the
principal product and the population is
Marakei is about five miles by three. The
population is 1479. Spong >s are plentiful in
the surrounding waters. Abaiang is 16 miles
long by 5 miles wide: the populat ion is
2380. Neither Little Makin nor Marakei
has sheltered anchorage. The other two
islands offer fair anchorage.
From what direction does the wind mostly
blow in N.S.W. during winter? —1575.
From the west. In the south the winds
are almost due west, but proceeding north-
wards there is a southerly tendency, while
on reaching latitudes north of Sydney the
direction is almost due south. When they
reach the north-eastern parts of the State,
these winds are deflected in a westerly
direction, and are merged in the south-east
trade winds north of latitude 30deg. Dur-
ing the cold months of the year Australia
lies directly in the great high-pressure
stream, and tin* high pressure when pass-
ing over the continent tends to break up
into individual anti-cyclonic circulations.
Order of value of hands in brag? —ls44.
(a) Three aces natural (i.e., in which no
bragger is employed). ( b ) Three aces made
by the assistance of a bragger. (c) Three
kings, or other smaller cards in due order,
the higher being preferred to the lower, and
as between threes of equal value, naturals
being preferred to those made with the help
of a bragger. (d) Pairs, from aces down-
wards, in like manner, with the same prefer-
ence of naturals. (c) In default of any
pair, or better, the hand holding the best
single card, the ace of diamonds ranking
first, and after it any other ace, and so on.
In what way do the Blue Mountains in-
fluence the weather around about Sydney?
—1640.
To the Blue Mountains may be attributed
the occasional raging westerly wind, hot
in summer, bitterly cold in winter, followed
within 24 hours by a southerly that comes
up the coast, and when violent is known as
a “southerly buster.” Across the inland
plains the set of air is usually easterly; the
Blue Mountains divert this into the upper
regions of the atmosphere, and at that level
it flows continuously above Sydney, north-
easterly winds replacing it at the lower
level. When disturbances farther north inter-
rupt the north-easterly current, the west
wind drops from the high level to take its
place; but the same lack of pressure that
allows this drop also invites an inflow of
cold air from the south, so that the westerly
summer wind (being hot) cannot blow for
many hours. In winter, when both the west-
erly and the southerly winds are cold, they
may fight out between them for some days
the possession of the low-lying coastal areas.
(1) Where can I obtain books on the dis-
tillation of crude oil and the manufacture
of lubricating oils and greases? (2) Ilow to
gain a thorough knowledge of oil? (o) Is
a knowledge of chemistry and physics neces-
sary? (4) What are the prospects of em-
ployment in Australia for an expert in oils.
1540,
(1) Angus and Robertson, Sydney. (2)
It would be necessary to study the refining
and' manufacturing of petroleum products at
the large • refineries in Europe or the U.S.A.
(3) A knowledge of chemistry is necessary.
(^) Can’t prophesy. At present the out-
look isn’t bright.
(1) How can I stencil on to material with
crayons and make the result permanent.
(2) Suitable crayons and fabrics? —1730.
Outline the stencil pattern with a fine
point of Ihe crayon in the color selected
and then carefully fill in each part. Make
a smooth, even' coloration and carefully
remove any chips of crayon from the work.
When finished press on the wrong side with a
fairly hot iron. Do not slide the iron over
the whole fabric, as this will blur the
colors. Lay the point of the iron on each
piece of tlie design and pick straight up.
This will render the colors sufficiently perma-
nent to wash with careful handling. (2)
Best-quality wax crayons. Georgette, voile,
China silks and silk voiles will take such
designs.
There is a snake in our district (Lock-
hart, N.S.W.), which ranges in color from
a grey to a very dull brown, in size from
4 ft. to over o ft., is slow moving, has large
scales, and is reputed to be poisonous. What
species does it belong to? —1559.
Tallies with the general description of the
copper-head, Denisonia superba, though this
species has not been known to attain a
greater length than sft. The species of a
snake cannot be determined on color alone.
The number and comparative size and shape
of the scales, head shields, and tail scales
must be known. If a specimen, or head and
tail, be sent to the Australian Museum (Syd-
ney), a correct identification can be given.
(1) Wh cn were the rectifying properties
of crystals as applied to radio, discovered?
(2) What method was adopted for the re-
ception of wireless signals prior to this dis-
covery?—lool.
(1) In 1874 F. Braun, a German physi-
cist, noticed that certain pairs of substances,
when placed so that only a small area Avas
in contact, offered a greater resistance to
electric current in one direction than in
the other. This discovery was not applied
to the reception of wireless signals until
1906, when 11. H. C. Dumvoody utilised
carborundum. (2) In ISB7 Hertz employed
a circle of stiff wire, broken in one place
by a small pair of spark balls. The first
detector to be of practical use was the co-
herer. This was followed by Marconi’s mag-
netic detector, the electrolytic detector, and
numerous other devices.
(1) What is the Branly coherer? (2)
Who teas Branly? (3) At what period was
this coherer used? —l766.
(1) A detector of electro-magnetic tvaves,
consisting of a tube containing loosely-packed
iron filings placed between and making con-
tact Avitli two metal plugs. The conductivity
of the filings increased under the action of
electro-magnetic waves. (2) Dr. Edonard
Branly was a French scientist who made a
study of electro-magnetic waves, and in 1891
patented methods of operating a local relay
circuit from a distance by means of these
waves. (3) 1890-91.
How to remove the printing from calico
flour-bags? —l472.
Soak in cold water. Avash in Avarm suds,
then boil well Avitli plenty of washing-soda.
If obstinate, moisten Avitli kerosene and
boil again with soda.
How to use concentrated size as a
primary coat for varnishing and kalsomin-
ing?—l3s7.
For varnishing, put one level tablespoon
of size into two tablespoons cold water,
then place in another vessel of water over
heat until the size dissolves- use quickly
Avliilo still hot. For kalsomining, to 41b.
size add Jib. poAvdered alum dissolved in
hot water before adding to the size; heat
together with enough water to make a smooth
thin solution, and apply to tin; Avails before
kalsomining. About one handful of the size
dissolved in hot water may be added to one
packet of kalsomine when it is being mixed
for painting, but most brands of kalsomine
already contain glue, so that it is scarcely
necessary unless the walls are very hard
to manage.
How to make imitation marble? Any
books on the subject? —l76B.
Take alum 1000 parts; heavy spar (bari-
um sulphate) 10 to 100 parts; water, 100
parts, the amount of spar being governed
be the degree of translucence desired. The
alum is dissolved in the Avater by heat, and
when it boils the spar is mixed in
and stirred with any suitable ground pig-
ment. This is then boiled doAvn till the
mixture has lost about 3 p.c. of ; ts Aveight,
when the mass exhibits a density of 34deg.
Be. at a temperature of 212 deg. F. The
mixture is allowed to cool, with constant
stirring, until it is semi-liquid, when it is
poured into moulds covered on the inside
with iseveral layers of collodion. It is
permitted to completely cool off in the
moulds, when it is taken out and dried in
an airy room. The casts are later polished
or finished in any desired Avay. There are
two short articles on the subject in Hen-
ley's “Book of Recipes.”
Are there any orioles in Australia, and
what arc their characteristics? —lB47.
Two species occur in Australia; the green
oriole, found in the eastern and northern
parts of the continent, and the yellow oriole,
confined to the north. They frequent forest
country, a »d live principally on bush fruits,
but also devour insects. Their notes are
varied and melodious, and they mimic tin;
songs and calls of other birds. Their nests
are neat cup-shaped structures, suspended
from the forks of horizontal or drooping
boughs. The eggs are from two to four in
number, white with dots and blotches of
various shades of brown.
Who was Rosa Bonheur, and what, works
made her celebrated? —lBll.
A French painter, bom Bordeaux, 1522.
died, 1899. She Avas noted as a painter of
animals, particularly horses. Of her many
works “Ploughing in the Nivernais,” “The
Horse Fair” and “Hay Harvest in
Auvergne” are best known.
Brief Answers.
J.W.M.: Write Gordon and, Gotch,
Barrack-street, Sydney... .D.B.'; Goanna skins are not
used for the production of reptile leather. Try Broom-
heim Bros.’ tannery, Willoughby... .J.A.M.C.: Write
to the manager Citrus Packing House, Wyong
W.A.L.: Write to Aus. Cement Manufacturers’ Assoc.,
14 Spring-street, Sydney, which will advise. . .C.1.C.:
No; it should be “turns his or her back.” But you
mustn’t look for pedagogic exactitude in an advertis-
ing slogan.. .G.D.: The land on which you intend to
plant fruit-trees and vegetables should be thoroughly
grubbed... .H.E.P.: Write Under Secretary, Public
Health Department, Macquarie-street, Sydney....
IC.J.T.: Form of application for assistance to build
a silo can be obtained from Lands Department,
Sydney, or local Shire Council or Pastures Protec-
tion Board, but no money is available to provide
stock... .E.H.N.; Authentic figures not available.
Possibly your State Agricultural Department has
the International Institute of Agriculture’s figures.
. ...H.S.: Wylandra means “heap of stones’’; Kunji,
a “hut”; Murrawolga, “sheet of deep water” and
Carcoar, “a frog”—all are abo. words A.A.: (1)
Unemployment is as acute among the white' popu-
lation of Singapore as it is here. (2) Practically
all positions are filled in London. (3) None. (4)
None, so far as we are aware... .H.A.F.: In 1930-31
the value of prisoners’ labor of a productive nature
in N.S.W., excluding domestic employment, amounted
to £68,255... .F.S.: Japan’s public debt at Jan.
31, 1931, was 5,942,000,000 yen. The yen at par.
is worth 24.58 d 8.L.: Write Consul-General for
Holland, 58 Margaret-street, Sydney... .R.C.:
Earthenware cups and saucers, etc., are made by
Bakewell Bros., Ltd., Coulsen-street, Erskineville;
R. Fowler, Ltd., Fitzroy-street, Marrickville; and
Sydenham Pottery Co., 45 Garden-street, Marrick-
ville. China cups and saucers are made by the
Calyx Co. of Westralia; agents, Sydney Importing
Co., 523 Ivent-street, Sydney... .J.F.L.: Assessed
Unemployment Relief Tax is allowable as a deduc-
tion for Federal purposes. Legislation covering the
whole subject is promised.... It.T.H.: English
or European plums are not satisfactory when worked
on Japanese types of plums... .V.J.J.: Rapa Island
belongs to France. It 1 has a population of 200,
including a handful of whites.... Enquirer: You can
(а) have the fence moved on to its proper align-
ment ; (6) let the strip of land to your neighbor
at a nominal rent; (c) sell it to him... . V.E.8.:
(1) There is no legislation to meet such a ease.
(2) The mortgagee can prohibit the sale of part of
the land. (3) Impossible to estimate. You would
probably need professional assistance in the transfer.
W.T.: 1929-30—Sydney, 8,940,535 tons; Mel-
bourne, 7,030,192 tons G. 0.5.: Write to Dr.
Bengston, College of Medicine, University of Illinois,
Urbana, 111., U.S.A R.C.; (1) No. (2) Dr.
Shorthouse founded it. John Corlett owned and ran
it during its 30-odd years of prosperity. (3) Sievier
founded the “Winning Post” in 1904 and ran it.
According to “Who’s Who” (1931), it has been a
success from its first publication. .. .A. 8.: The Dog
and Duck hotel in Sydney was situated in the
Haymarket part of George-street, nearly opposite
Christ Church M.C.C.: No major prizes have gone
*to the Islands... .C.P.: Boolbadah. means “abandoned
camp” ; Keurong, “home of the flying fox” ; and
Millamurra, “many eyes”—all are abo. words... .
Q.; We cannot trace either design or maker, but it
appears to be a Staffordshire plate of the type used
in the early part of the nineteenth century. Such
pieces have, no great collector’s, value, but are in
some demand for decorative purposes. It should
fetch about 15s. on the Sydney market... .E.T.:
(1) Ask the Animal Welfare League for its leaflets
on hygiene and breeding of dogs. (2) A book on
poultry farming is issued by the l ie. Agricultural
Department, 2s. Bd. posted R.S.: Aluminium
with alloy can be nickel-plated... .Nil).: C. H. Cran-
fleld, Brisbane Arcade, gives lessons. Usual charge
is about 4s. fid. an hour C.J.D.: Write College
of Heralds, ()ueen Victoria-street, London, E.C.4....
C.L.: Leichhardt left Moreton Bay in March, 1848
to cross Australia, east to west. All went well for
11 days, then the expedition disappeared beyond
Maephcr,son’s station on Fitzrov Downs. Several
parties went in search, but found traces only—a
hut on the Elsev, an “L”-marked tree growing by
the Nivelle, another on a Cloucurry tributary, and
two horses J.A.: Pierre S. Du Pont, of Wilming-
ton Delaware, U.S.A., carries insurance for
7,000,000 dollars; Percy Rockefeller, New York, is
insured for 3,000,000 dollars R.T.: We know of
no body corresponding to the ore you mention.. . ,
G.V.: (1) Irish Free State, area, 17,024,481 acres,
pop. (1926), 2,971,992 ; Northern Ireland, area,
3,351,444, pop. (1926), 1,256,561. (2) 1.F.5., rev.
(1930-31), £32,582,897, exp. (1930-31),
£31,104,648. N. 1., £8,465,000 and £8,461,000.
(3) 1.F.5., imports (1931), £50,468,114, exports
(1931), £36,276,118. N.I. figures not separated
from those for United Kingdom. (4) I.F.S.
£29,460,089 at Mar., 1931. N.I. figures not
separated from those for U.K. (5) Not available.
(б) 1.F.5., cattle, 4,029,000 ; sheep, 3,575,000; horses.
450,000 ; N. 1., cattle, 680,428 ; sheep, 793,257 ; horses,
86,485. (7) Scotland, area, 30,405 sq. miles: pop.
(1931), 4,842,554. (8), (9), (10) and (11) Figures
not separated from those for U.K. (12) Scotland,
cattle, 1,208,874; sheep, 7,830,787 ; horses, 152,668.
(13) Not available... .A.11.M.; Can find no record
of the resolution. Various other organisations passed
similar resolutipns; can’t speculate as to reasons....
8.M,: Write Offlcer-in-Charge, Fisheries Branch, Chief
Secretary's Dept., Sydney F.M.L.: It may possess
a value to a collector of such items, the price
being a matter of negotiation between buyer and
seller A. J.P.: (1) The market is not so extensive
as it was three years ago, but there is still a demand
for well-written material. (2) They help, but none
can teach a person without talent to produce master-
pieces. .. .L.G.S.: (1) Straits Settlements, 1,114,012 ;
F.M.S., 1,722,941. (2) and (3) Not available.
(4) Straits Settlements, estimated revenue for 1932,
£3,000,000; expenditure, £5,600,000. No figures
available for F.M.S. (5) Both belong to Holland.
(6) Write to Philip Pring and Co., Pitt and Hunter-
streets, Sydney A.M.R.: Can’t trace either. The
Royal Aust. Historical Society may be able to help
you... .H.C.H.: (1) and (2) The grinder should run
at between 2200 and 2500 r.p.m. (3) From Cooper
Engineering Co., 542-546 Little Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne. ~ .C. 8.: Divorced persons may not marry
until a decree absolute has been granted, and must
then wait further until the time limited for appeal
against the decree absolute, usually 14 days, has
expired. If there is an appeal marriage is not
legal till the appeal has been decided E. 8.: The
London College of Music is not subsidised by any
Aust. Government. Fees received from examinations
are used to pay examiners (all .N.g.W. musicians)
and other expenses. The balance is placed in a
trust, account at the Commonwealth Bank, Sydney.
Profits of the annual concert are given to Sydney
Hospital... .H.L.P.; Institute of Decorative Art, 3
Spring-street, Sydney... .G.W.R.: (1) You can find
out about the bill of sale at the Registrar General’s
Office, Queen’s-square, Sydney. (2) Not necessarily.
(3) You could proceed to execution against any other
goods or chattels he may possess, and in a final
resort could make him bankrupt and share with
other creditors in his estate (Many others mailed.)


One Ounch Palsy
By Montague Grover
Ota AFTER I.
PATSY QUIRK stepped from the shower
and stood shaking the water from
his finger-tips. He glistened from head
to foot, defying, if not disproving, Ruskin’s
pronouncement that nothing shines in
Nature and that, therefore, nothing shining
can be beautiful. For Patsy was beautiful
—like Kipling’s Young Queen, he was
beautiful, bold and brown—and to deny his
beauty was to deny the beauty of all that
vast army of shimmering bronze statuettes
which, at this moment, Patsy so closely
resembled.
Even Buff Cody, who knew—or thought
he knew —nothing of aesthetics, for a
moment slackened in the work which was
his pride, to gaze with frank admiration on
l he form of the boy. Had the day not
been hot, Buff would never have permitted
himself such dereliction of duty; but, as
it was midsummer and not a wisp of steam
rose from the body of the boxer, Buff
deferred the task of rubbing Patsy down
until he had.taken his full of admiration.
Of course, Buff would have indignantly
denied that his interest was anything but
purely professional. To have pleaded guilty
to a frank admiration of the wonderful sym-
metry of Patsy’s muscular system and
bright, even skin would have seemed to
Buff the rankest admission of contemptible
effeminacy—a weakness to declare him
bogus in the world of sport, to merit his
being drummed out of what he deemed the
noblest, though the most unrecognised and
most underpaid, profession in the world—
that of a trainer of athletes.
Pride mingled with Buff’s admiration,
the pride of a parent; for he regarded him-
self as being responsible for far more im-
portant qualities in the make-up of Patsy
Quirk than old Martin Quirk of Illawarra.
Martin Quirk’s responsibility was trifling,
according to the reasoning of Buff Cody. All
it embraced was Patsy’s presence in the
world and his subsequent maintenance and
upbringing. On the other hand, lie, Buff
Cody, had taken Patsy in hand since he
was just a promising fighter—an amateur
champion, certainly, but what are amateurs,
anyhow? Martin Quirk had done only what
millions of fathers are doing all the world
over. Buff Codv had done what he firmly
believed it was impossible for anyone else
to have done—he had turned out of that
mere amateur, that victor over tennis-
players and bush scrappers and rouseabouts
and sheer incompetents, a fighting machine
which he hoped would, in the near future,
weep Alexandrine tears for lack of worlds
to conquer.
Buff Cody had high ideals regarding his
calling. He looked upon it not merely as
the noblest known to man, but as some-
thing almost godlike, seeing that it gave
power over humanity itself, the very bone
and sinew of the human being. He took
mere clods, he touched them with his
magic fingers and they became great-
might rise even to world championships;
which, as everybody knows, leave kings, pre-
sidents, cabinet ministers and lesser lights
in the murk of obscurity, while lie,
the creator of greatness, remained in
even greater obscurity than these. But,
though his genius were unrecognised, he
would possess the consciousness of good
work well-done, the gratification of the true
artist who cares for nothing but his own
sense of satisfaction. He, Buff Cody, might
not be a champion himself, but he was the
power behind the punch—Warwick the
Kingmaker.
So it was that, when he looked on Patsy
Quirk and saw that he was good. Buff Cody
felt much as Rodin must have felt when he
put the last touch on “The Thinker,” as
Turner must have felt when he scanned
“The Fighting Temeraire” from edge to
centre and found that there was not one
spot which required another touch of the
brush, as Shakspeare must have felt when
he wrote the last line to “King Lear.”
Dried to the satisfaction of his high
priest, Patsy, the idol of this pagan temple,
strolled over to a long plank, resting on a
couple of trestles, and swung himself on it
at full length. Buff Cody made a cup of
his left hand, filled it to overflowing with
a white liquid from a beer-bottle and sloshed
it over Patsy’s chest. The ait was filled
with an overpowering odor, the incense of
the sacred rite about to be performed. Both
ceased to speak. The predominant sound
was from the regular slapping of Buff’s
hands on the body of Patsy. Even the mur-
mured conversation of the three others—
Stan Carlisle, the artist; Jimmy Packington,
the coke-worker; and Joe Tolani, Patsy’s
sparring-partner, who was giving himself a
rub down with a towel —came merely as an
obbligato to the main theme.
The palms of Buff’s hands, developed by
contact with many cuticles, had grown hard,
so hard that Patsy winced at times when
their surfaces rasped across his skin, to
leave pink tracks behind them. But more
painful than the rubbing was the massage
when, with lingers of harveyised steel,
dynamo-driven, Buff seized and lifted in-
dividual muscles, seemingly to tear them
from their anchorages. Patsy set his teeth
and tried to compose his features that the
rest might not guess the ordeal through
which he was passing
“Over!” cried Buff. Patsy turned.
Slap, slap, slap, fell Buff’s hands on his
back, along his thighs and the calves of
his legs. Then came the muscle-lifting
torment, the kneading of his,neck.
At last Buff drew himself up, breathed
hard and administered to the recumbent
Patsy a smack which left a perfect print of
four fingers and a thumb.
The session had ended; more than that,
the work had ended; Buff had done all it
was possible to do, save only his advice at
the ringside. For the rest Patsv must
rely upon the speed of his own brain, the
responsiveness of his own nervous system,
the weight of his own punch. Buff was
satisfied.
With that smack the tension broke. That
this was the culminating point of three
weeks, of solid preparation was realised to
the full by all of them. The importance
of the moment was even more significant
to Stan Carlisle and Jimmy Packington
than to either Buff Cody or Joe Tolani.
Their interest was personal as well as sport-
ing. The result of the fight meant the suc-
cess or failure of their lifelong friend, his
possible emancipation from the hewing of
wood and the drawing of water. All three
had been born children of Gideon; all three
were struggling to escape their inheritance.
To Patsy the roped ring seemed to offer
an avenue leading to the Promised Land.
Buff Cody’s interest, deep as it was, was
largely that of the artist.
As for Joe Tolani, the whole business
was nothing more than a means of liveli-
hood. Nature had ordained that he should
be . one of those peculiarly constituted in-
dividuals who can endure an excess of
buffeting from the fists of other men. As
a boxer he had proved below mediocrity.
The prizes of the ring were not for him.
So he had seized upon his one advantage
over other men and turned it into a pro-
fession, accepting poor and uncertain wages
as the price of permitting all and sundry
to turn him into a chopping block that,
they might acquire the dexterity and power
to deal similarly with his betters. With a
nose broken early in his career and two
thick ears, Joe proclaimed his calling to
the world and gained a fictitious respect
from the ill-informed.
Still, the repressed enthusiasm infected
him to an extent, and he was ready to go
into Patsy’s corner next evening, loyal even
to bigotry; and. more than that, to risk
a large proportion of his week’s earnings
on Patsy’s ability to come out the victor.
Chapter 11.
It was Jimmy Packington who first set
Patsy’s feet on the path of pugilism—a set-
ting so well ordered that Patsy had scored
a clean knockout over him in the final of
the lllawarra amateur middleweight cham -
pionship. The victory led to Patsy’s enter-
ing for the Australasian Championships in
Sydney, and lie had won so handsomely
that the experts advised his entrance into
professional ranks. Patsy had thereupon
resigned his job as a surface hand at the
Keira Main coalmine and had placed him-
self in the hands of Buff Codv, maker of
champions, to turn him into the finished
product of pugilism.
The man he had been matched against
was Jules Loubet, a visiting Frenchman,
who bore on his record the distinction of
having lasted out: no fewer than eighteen
rounds with such a master of the art as
the middleweight champion of Europe.
Since his arrival in Australia, Loubet had
been defeated only once and that by a
visiting American, who was numbered
among the world’s best. Loubet’s list of
wins was small, certainly, but in each of the
remaining contests he had stood up the full
twenty rounds and* his losses were solely on
points, albeit that several of his opponents
were men who loomed large in the world
of fight.
Loubet was a good drawing card. The re ■
gular attendants at glove contests knew
that when he was in the ring they would
see a good fight. Whether he happened to
be pitted against a newcomer or a cham-
pion, the game, nuggetty Frenchman would
give them their money’s w T orth and a bit
over.
“Now r , Patsy, it’s up ter you,” announced
Buff. “I done all I can, Gawd knows. Ain’t
that right, Joe?”
Joe nodded. “Too right yer have.”
“I've give yer three weeks o’ the best—-
more’n I done fur Spike McKenna or Bill
Spiers or Cyclone Smith. All o them got
home with a fortnight apiece. I done me
best; an’ if th’ Frenchy outs yer, don’t
come squealin’ as it’s my fault.”
“No l’ear, I won’t,” assured Patsy “It
I go under, it’s because I’m not th’ stuff.
I know that. Buff. But don’t be so serious
about, it.”
Patsy grinned to his Illawarra mates and
made them smile - in sympathy. Patsy’s
grin had a way of making everybody smile.
It had proved the secret of a great part of
his popularity in his native town, from the
days when he could make the schoolmistress
feel forgiving towards his misdemeanors, to
the time when he could dispel the deter-
mination of such a disciplinarian as the
foreman of the Keira Main.
Patsy was not facially handsome, but he
was good-looking. He had a square jaw
and deep-set eyes inherited from ancestors
in Tipperary, a small pug nose and a long
upper lip traceable to the same origin, and
a large mobile mouth for ever rippling with
smiles, the whole modified by an Aus-
tralian environment. When he wasn’t smil-
ing. he was grinning, exposing a set of the
strong regular teeth which go so often with
the man of vigor. By nature he was free,
careless, irresponsible, filled with an eternal
gaiety; nothing ever seemed to worry Pats\
for long.
Buff was hurt at being chided about his
seriousness. It was the last thing he
wanted to be just now, A novice about to
enter into his first fight—for Buff didn’t
count those amateur affairs—needs sur-
roundings the reverse of serious. Buff
wanted to be bright, blithe, gay, filled with
spontaneous . effervescing humor, scintillat-
ing with quip and crank, but he realised
that his was not the temperament to induce
the required environment. He prayed that
the others might evolve some means of pre-
serving Patsy’s present mood.
“ ’Ere,” he whispered, as Patsy went into
the house to dress, “I don’t know whether
vous know how ter deal with a bloke like
him—jest gointer fight fur th’ first, time.
Keep talkin’. Talk about anythink—’orses
or movies or anythink; anythink but fightin’.
D’yer git me?”
“I understand,” agreed Carlisle.
Jimmy Paekington nodded. Joe Tolani
didn’t trouble to reply. He did not con-
sider that Buff had addressed his remarks
to one of his experience.
“We may as well have a swim,” said
Buff, as Patsy returned, shaking on his
coat. “All excep’ Patsy. Nothin’ but rest
fur you now. P’raps a slow walk afore tea
an’ another after. Yer can ’ave one cup o’
tea—one —afore ver go ter bed. Then
nothin’ ter drink till yer’ve weighed in.
Now, don’t squeal,” he continued severely,
noting Patsy’s grimace. “Yer jest on weight
now, but we can’t afford ter take any
chances. Wait till yer gotter dry out ten
pound afore th’ weighin’ in an’ then yer’ll
’ave somethin’ ter cry out about.”
Chapter 111.
Below the camp the surf beat rhythmic-
ally; on stormy days it roared like a cannon-
ade. From their verandah it was almost
possible to cast a biscuit into the shallows.
Down the low cliffs and through the passes
between the rocks, the four picked their
way, Patsy in sweater and flannels, the rest
in bathing-costumes. The safety flag stood
beside the life-reel only twenty or thirty
yards away.
There were a score of people in the water.
The surf was good and some were shooting
splendidly. One, a figure in dark blue, rose
majestically on the crest of a wave thirty
yards out, poised on the apex for a moment,
then swooped in triumphantly as an aero-
plane swoops in the sky, revealing itself to
belong to a girl only as it slowed down,
head and shoulders still well out of the
water.
“Some shooter, that girl,” observed Patsy.
“That’s the best I’ve seen since I came up.”
The girl rose, passed her hand over her
face to clear her eyes, and. instead of return-
ing to the front fine, waded towards them.
She was about twenty, of medium height,
and attractive. Her figure was on the light
side, though finely moulded beneath the
tight one-piece costume she wore; but
more noticeable than her figure was her
grace. Every attitude seemed to compose
itself automatically. The peculiarity was
not, lost on Patsy.
“Every move a picture,” he quoted.
' “No complaints about that there tart,”
assented Buff.
Stan did not speak. He was looking hard
at the girl. As she drew near, she raised
her eyes to them. There was no coquetry
no shyness, in her action. It was just short
of being defiant, aggressive. She glanced
along the group. Then her gaze rested on
Stan and her face relaxed. She smiled,
waved a hand of recognition and approached.
“Why, Stan,” she said, “when did you
come down to Bondi?”
“Only yesterday. Phyl.” he replied. “I
thought I recognised the lines. We’ve been
spending the night at one of the camps.
Boys, this is Miss Deane.” He introduced
her all round. Patsy was interested, Jimmy
friendly, Joe Tolani stolid and Buff Cody
bashful and embarrassed—bashful lest his
social shortcomings might be apparent to
one who was obviously in a different walk
of life, embarrassed lest he might have
given offence to Stan by a compliment
lacking in tact and respect.
Phyllis Deane was neither bashful nor
embarrassed. She remembered the name
of each, and spoke to each with the utmost
self-possession.
“It's simply glorious in to-day/' she
remarked, looking straight at Buff Cody
and making him blush to the back of his
ears.
“Yes, miss,” he replied, recognising the
moment he had said it that it was the wrong
reply to make to a lady who was trying to
admit him to a circle of acquaintance of
higher social status than reigned in the
’Loo.
“Well, we’re after some of those shoots
before they go off.” said Stan, after they
had spokeii for a few minutes.
“Not for me just yet,” smiled Phyllis.
“I’ve been in longer than I should have
already—a full hour, at least. But I simply
couldn’t leave them.”
“But you’re not going out—a day like
this,” protested Jimmy.
“No, but I’ll warm up in the sun again
for half an hour first.”
“Then you can sit down and yarn with
Patsy,” said Stan. “He’s not allowed in
the water.”
“Oh! What a shame!” She turned to
scrutinise Patsy’s face. It was not the
face of an invalid, especially at that
moment when a grin bespread it from
cheek to cheek.
“You’re not joking?” she asked suspici-
ously.
“No,” replied Patsy. “Honestly, I’m not
allowed to swim for the present.”
“That’s right,” assented Buff Cody, de-
sirous of being in the picture.
“Oh, well,” said Phyllis, satisfied, “you
can sit down and talk to me till it’s time
to go in again. You don’t look very ill.
but I suppose you must be. Anyhow, 1
don’t suppose it’s catching!”
“I can promise you that,” replied Patsy,
throwing himself on the sand beside her.
Patsy could no longer look into the girl’s
eyes. It is admissible to do so when you
are standing up, but sheer rudeness when
you are sitting side by side. He contented
himself with allowing his eyes to follow the
full contours of her brown legs, her brown
arms and shoulders. Such a proceeding
—regarded with horror and detestation
elsewhere —is perfectly good form on the
beach. Patsy, student of anatomy by pro-
fession and inclination, found no fault.
“You’re a regular surfer, judging by your
color, Miss Deane,” he hazarded.
“Every morning; but that’s before break-
fast, when there’s no sun to speak 01. I
get my color on Saturdays and Sundar.-.
It isn’t often I can manage to get down on
a week day like this.”
“Then you live in Bondi?”
>Tve lived here all my life. When I look
around I feel like the oldest inhabitant.
I remember when that road was only a
heap of sand; I remember when the onh
surf sheds were some paling fences; 1
remember” She burst into a laugh.
“I could go on for an hour telling you
tales of the dark ages.”
“And I could listen.” remarked Patsy.
Phyllis Deane looked at him hard. Pat»>
looked back at her with one of his quizzi-
cal smiles and they both laughed. It was
a touch that carried them over the bordci-
line of mere acquaintanceship—perhaps no
into actual friendship, but into what is
often more important, the position desert -
able only as that of “getting on well
together.”
“I hardly know Bondi and I’ve never
been on any of the other Sydney beaches,
he explained in answer to her questions.
“You see. I’ve only been up irom the
South Coast for three weeks, but down there
I spend a lot of my time m the water.
Jimmy and I are in the surf club there,
and so was Stan before he came up to m p
in Sydney.” „
“Then you boys are all old friends.
“We’ve known one another since we were
so high; went to school together,wagged it
together, got the sock together.
Phvilis cuddled her knees in her arms.
“I’m ‘so glad you’re an old friend of Stan
You all must be proud of him down at
Illawarra. He’s going to be a very great
artist—Stan. I don’t know whether you
people have any idea how great, but 1 ao.
I know all the artists and the critics heie
and there’s only one opinion about him.
“Dinkum?” asked Patsy “I knew Shu
could draw a bit; we all did, but is tha
really true?” „ .
“True as anybody can prophesy. <-)
course, plenty of promising men never
manage to get there, through one tlnn o'
another; but. as a rule, it’s their own faulL
I don’t think it’ll be Stans fault H-
isn’t one of that sort. He s a
modest, but he’s got the skill and the b ain,
and, above everything, he s a ■
That’s the trouble with a lot of thebe cle
bovs They have success early. Some boa.
praises them a little, they praise themsebe,
a lot and then they sit back and wait
the cheques and the bouquets, whe
neither comes along, they go mto ‘ , • r
and sulk and whine about the woild be ,
incapable of recognising genius. bui
not one of that sort; lie's a real man.


' •. ■
mm
Sal
The window is beautiful and the screen is convenient, because it s
Rolscreened. A touch of the finger and it is up and out of the way, stored
for a day or a season.
cSI Htindow Screen.
inut toils
like
a
B.R.G. Rolscreens give 10 to 20
per cent, more light than do the
old-fashioned, wooden-framed wire
screens. . . .without destroying that
harmony of line and proportion
which architects are so careful to
build into the modern home.
(%2&c/ieens)
B.R.G. Rolscrcens allow any window
its fullest effect, both from the inside
and outside with their inconspicuous
guides at the sides; a narrow bottom
rail; an ingenious spring roller,
hidden in a compact housing, insur-
ing the maximum of light. Serving
their real purpose, to keep a house
thoroughly insect-proof, at the same
time adding a beauty and con-
venience never before obtainable.
0 They roll up automatically at a touch of the fingers, as
easily as a window shade—there when you want them,
out of the way when you don’t.
0 They need not be taken down for access to awnings,
flower boxes or for window washing. Require no storing,
no messy dusting, painting and repairing. Never in the
way for cleaning tasks.
0 They do not collect dirt—to be beaten against panes
by rain or to soil delicate breeze-blown curtains.
0 They are lovely in appearance—obviate the unsight-
liness and light obstruction inevitable with wide wooden-
framed wire screens. Tour curtains are not hidden and
can be admired from without as well as within your home.
A They do not rust or break into holes; they do not sax
or bag, even from accidental blows.
% They are thoroughly Insect tight with their mesh
fastened in securely at top and bottom and snugly locked
into close-fitting guides at the sides.
# Rolscreens give you all these amazing advantages with
any size or type of window —in new home or old.
a The cost of B.R.G. Rolscreens compares favorably with
that of good-quality wood screens which require special
hardware. There is no cost of storing, painting or
repairing.
w%
’|l
m
.
So Simple and Easy to Operate!
Rolscreens add to the smart, slender
lines of casement windows without
spoiling the effect of attractive
curtains.
B.R.G. ROLSCREENS
(Patented throughout the World).
Manufactured by the Australian Reinforced Concrete Eng. Co. Pty., Ltd., 430 CHANCERY LANE, MELBOURNE, C.l. ; 14 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
For complete details and prices, call on or write to— , ... .
tNE: Golliu & Co. Pty.. Ltd. ADELAIDE: Elder Smith & Co.. Limited. PERTH: The Structural Eng. Co. of W.A.,
SYDNEY: Golliu <& Co. Pty., Ltd. BRISBANE: Dyne and Co., Ltd. NEW ZEALAND: Wellington—Derbyshire s & Co.;
MELBOURNE
Limited.
John Duthie & Co„ Ltd. Dunedin—Donald Stuart & Co
SEE B.R.G. ROLSCREEN DISPLAYS
STAND No. 83. MAIN INDUSTRIAL HALL. ADELAIDE SHOW.
IN THE ADMINISTRATIVE BUILDING, MELBOURNE SHOW.
“I beg your pardon?” said Patsy. He
had allowed his thoughts to wander. What
the girl had said about the artists, Buff
Cody had said in his own phraseology about
the pugs only a few nights previously. “I’m
awfully sorry, but I was thinking about
what you said a minute ago and missed
your last remark.”
“That’s the height of rudeness. Women
never say anything that a man can think
about—or oughtn’t to. But I’ll forgive you.
I was just giving Stan an unsolicited testi-
monial for all the artistic virtues. But
isn’t he a fine fellow?”
“He’s all that and a bit over; and I’ve
known him fifteen years longer than you
have, at least.”
Patsy could have hugged the girl for
the admiration she felt for his old mate,
especially as her manner made it clear that
there was not a suspicion of tenderness
about it.
“Asa rule, 1 don’t ’old with blokes in
trainin’ mixin’ up with th’ girls at all,”
remarked Buff Cody to Stan, out in the
front line. “But she’s a nice young lady
that.”
“She is,” agreed Stan. “You’re a splendid
describer, Buff.”
“An’,” continued the trainer as he
emerged from the next wave, his plastered
hair and his drooping moustaches making
him look more walrus-like than ever, “a
good woman’s a refinin’ an” ennoblin’ in-
fluence.”
“Yes, well spoken, Buff; but what about
some of it out here?” cried Stan. “Patsy’s
monopolising Phyllis.” He rose at the next
break, got his kick in at the curl and
sailed in to the sands in front of them.
“Oh, there’s Stan now,” cried Phyllis.
“You made me forget all about my promise
to go out; I’ll never forgive you for that.”
She bounded to her feet, ran over the
sand to the shallows where Stan stood
and swung through the breakers to the
others.
Patsy watched her from his seat—the
fountains of spray she made as she ran in,
the golden bubbles swirling around her
knees till her head and shoulders threaded
their way through the bathers, dodging
those who shot past, until at last only her
scarlet cap with wisps of brown hair stray-
ing from it was left to indicate her where-
abouts.
She was a jolly decent sort, thought Patsy,
and he must see her again. If he won the
fight that would be easy, for he would be
training again at Ben Buckler and knew
now that her address was the beach every
Saturday and Sunday. If he didn’t, well,
Miss Deane—he had not caught her first
name—would join the rest on that gorgeous,
luminous scrapheap where the lost ideals
of humanity find a resting-place.
The sun was setting as they came out.
“Come on,” ordered Buff to Patsy, “yer
can walk up ter th’ other end o’ til’ beach
with us an’ git me a coupler plugs o’ ter-
backer. Yer’ll be stiff be now.”
Patsy had no chance of a further talk
with Phyllis. She strolled along between
Stan and Jimmy, and all three were talking
about Stan’s drawings—a subject more tech-
nical than Patsy dared to invade. Joe
Tolani had resumed his role of silent man.
He had taken his pleasure as he took every-
thing in life—pleasures, pains, triumphs, de-
feats—without comment. The emotional
part of Joe Tolani’s make-up was like the
face of the perfect poker-player. In a
world of Joe Tolanis, the psycho-analyst
would have to go back to work.
As for Buff Cody, he compared Phyllis
with other ladies he had known and heard
of to their utter disadvantage. She was,
he assured Patsy, one of the old-fashioned
sort, a womanly woman.
At the dressing-sheds Phyllis bade them
good-bye, shaking hands with each of them
and causing Buff to remark “Thank yer,
lady,” to his complete confusion.
After they had purchased the tobacco
they strolled back slowly to the camp, Buff
delivering a philosophic discourse on
womanhood and maintaining that the
presence of a good, pure woman made
him feel a better man.
Chapter IV.
Patsy awoke next morning before the
others. One moment he was fast asleep,
the next he was in full midday wakefulness.
For the trained athlete, in condition, “clean
right through,” sleeping in the open air,
there is no period of dozy transition, such
as affects the lesser breeds without the
law.
“Once aboard the lugger and the girl is
mine,” sang Patsy, rushing from bed to
bed tumbling out the sleepers. “Get
up, you lazy cows. The surf’s running
great.”
The word “surf” pierced the ear of Buff
Cody as a needle would have pierced his
arm. Instantly he was wide awake, stand-
ing in his purple pyjamas, blinking with
indignation. His hair was tousled; his big
moustaches were not a pair.
“My word, you’re a picture, Buff,” cried
Stan Carlisle. “Look, Jimmy, what a
glorious patch of purple against the dull
green of the wall—one of those accidental
harmonies we’d chase for a year. Would
you mind standing there for two or three
hours. Buff, till I run into town and get my
color-box?”
Buff didn’t laugh. The word “surf” was
still deeply* imbedded in his brain. “Surf,”
he echoed profoundly, gazing with a sad
eye jjJ. Patsy—“no surf for you to-day.
You got ter look .after yerSelf.”
Patsy winked at the others. “I’ll chance
it,” he announced.
“Then it’s good-bye ter you an’ me,”
observed Buff sadly. “Surf!” he added
indignantly. “Yer committin’ suicide.
Yer’ll break me ’eart yet, that’s what
yer’U do,” he concluded with a tremor in
his voice.
Patsy grinned. “All right, Buff, I don’t
want to do that. Your heart’s too valu-
able to me. Make your mind easy. The
shower’ll do me.”
But even the shower had some accom-
panying dangers from the careful stand-
point of Buff Cody. Emerging from it
Patsy bounded over the floor in a succes-
sion of leaps which drew from the trainer
a rebuke that he was wasting his strength.
“Yer want every ounce of it now,” he
advised. “If yer got a pound o’ sugar ter
make a cake with an’ yer chuck away a
pinch, that there cake’ll be a pinch short
when yer come ter eat it. It stands ter
reason,” he argued.
“But Jules isn’t going to eat me,”
laughed Patsy. “I’m going to eat him.”
“Feel fit?” queried Buff, a trifle mollified.
“Fit enough to take on Gene Tunney,”
replied Patsy.
The morning was put in watching the
others. Jimmy put up a fair five rounds
with Joe Tolani. and Stan got a terrible
belting from Buff who, incapable of setting
the weight of his blows to their object,
landed the artist an uppercut that almost
sent him out. Buff’s profuse apologies and
his labored explanations of how the acci-
dent happened helped to amuse the gather-
ing. Patsy was permitted to put on the
gloves with one of the youngsters who
turned up daily to do a little hero-worship,
concluding by giving the boy an opening
and tumbling over, to be solemnly counted
out .by Jimmy.
At noon they got into Buff’s car and
drove to the Stadium, where Patsy was
placed on the scales and weighed in satis-
factorily, with three pounds to spare.
Loubet received Patsy with truly Gallic
courtesy, suggestive of the meeting of prin-
cipals in an old-time duello. Patsy could
not refrain from laughing outright, but
patted the Frenchman on the back and
entered so well into the spirit of the cere-
monial that they parted firm friends. Lou-
bet assured Patsy, through his interpreter,
that he regarded Monsieur Kirk a true son
of Australia and an adversary to be loved
completely.
They had dinner in town, Patsy swallow-
ing five consecutive milk-shakes to compen-
sate for the moisture lost during his twelve
hours’ abstinence. '
At the camp they found Patsy’s father
—old Martin Quirk, who was not so old—
and his brother Des awaiting them.
“How is it, me boy?” asked Martin.
“Feelin' good?”
“Hard as nails and as fit as a fiddle, dad,”
laughed Patsy. “How’s mum?”
“Foine,” replied the father. “A bit wor-
ried over yez gettin’ killed; but sint her
love an’ good luck.”
Des bade Patsy good-day quietly and
without enthusiasm. Des did not look
kindly on Patsy’s choice of a new pro-
fession. More typically Irish than Patsy,
the younger brother was studious and
serious, attentive to his religious duties.
He had read deeply “The Lives of the
Saints” and similar works. “Speeches from
the Dock” was his favorite book—he knew
Robert Emmet’s speech by heart before
he was twelve.
Ever since Patsy had thought of entering
the ring professionally, Father Phelan, of
Illawarra had endeavored to dissuade him.
He had argued first with Patsy, and had
been treated with a good-humored levity to
which he was unaccustomed from members
of his flock. The rest of the Quirks he
had found more responsive. But Patsy was
adamant. The arguments of his father—
obviously half-hearted, for Martin felt a
sneaking pride in the prowess of his boy,
were easily met. The pleadings of mum
were more difficult to reject, for they were
founded more on fears for his bodily safety
than fears for his immortal soul. Still,
Patsy had held out against them. As for
Des, he took the purely hierarchical objec-
tion that what Father Phelan said must be
right. Patsy merely grinned at this. Des
loved his brother and, in his defiance of
the priest’s wishes, felt that Patsy was
risking eternal purgatory. He did not wish
him luck, because he hoped in his heart
that the Frenchman would triumph, ter-
minating for all time the devilish and im-
pious career which Patsy was about to
enter. But, in spite of all his disapproba-
tion, Des failed to overcome the instinctive
craving to see how his brother shaped in
the ring.
They had an early tea, and at 7.30 drove
to the Stadium. When they arrived it was
already ringing with cheers, for the pre-
liminary had proved unexpectedly even and
willing, and the five hundred South Coast-
ers who had come up by special train to
witness Patsy’s first professional appear-
ance were in an excited humor.
{To be continued next week.)


HOW TO STOP CAR-STARTER TROUBLES
WHEN ORDERING, STATE MAKE AND
MODEL OF CAR.
JOHN ARNOLD"™"
ISBBB POST OFFICE PEACE,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
£ The Sutherland Easy Mesh Car Starting
Switch has a time lag between the closing of
the first and second contacts. The first contact
allows the starter armature to rotate slowly,
gently screwing the starter pinion into mesh.
Only then does the second contact allow full
power to the starter.
H Starting-gear teeth cannot possibly be damaged
or jamtoed; Costly repairs to parts are
eliminated
• It can be installed in a few minutes as a
foot switch or as push or pull type for
dashboard control.
• Dashboard control is the most convenient for
driving. If engine stalls in traffic, simply
declutch without shifting gear, a touch cf
the switch and the engine is going again.
d If you are not completely satisfied after a
month’s use, return the -switch, and yow
money will be refunded immediately without
question. . .
A Fits all cars with automatic drive starting
™ mechanism.
foot switch type
PUSH OR PULL TYPE FOR
DASHBOARD CONTROL
Add 2/- for Postage. ■*
30/-
33/-
YOU’LL STOP , ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
brake
lining
Insist on “RAYBESTOS”—with the Silver
Edge. Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Caulfield racing last Saturday further
complicated the Cup situation. High Lrae
now appears to be Jack Holt’s main hope
for a big handicap success in the spring.
The son of Highfield fell from grace tem-
porarily when Liberal defeated him so
easily in the weight-for-age Underwood
Stakes at Williamstown on August Li.
Picatus, a descendant of Lady Medallist,
and bred by E. G. Blume, who won a Caul-
field Cup with that brilliant galloper, then
became Holt’s most-discussed animal. .1 lie
topsy-turvydom of racing was illustrated
when High Brae led home the Memsie
Stakes field and Liberal ran last, and when
Picatus finished out of a place m the
Heatherlie Handicap.
What made High Brae a 5-to-2 favorite
after failing by three lengths to reach
Liberal in the Williamstown straight'
There is a logical explanation, n 0 doubt; but
it is unavailable to the rank and file ■ of
bettors. The Memsie Stakes was not a
standard weight-for-age event; High Brae
escaped a penalty, while Liberal, Middle
Watch, Waterline and Ruach had to put up
71b. extra. Liberal met with serious inter-
ference, and Daniels did not persevere with
the Windbag colt when he found the posi-
tion to be hopeless. Although High Brae
won in fine style, The Bulletin scribe was
more impressed by Middle Watch’s effort in
running third, only half a head behind
Waterline Jim Munro has been retained to
■pilot Middle Watch in the Melbourne Cup,
and it was reported that he might rush
across from Sydney to ride the black stal-
GERTV ' WENT WITH THE HIKING PARTY
LAST WEEK END''
Bert! "One op the. stragglers,
I SUPPOSE > well in the rear?"
CIERT.* W ReAR INDEED { MOST OP THE
way l was m the v«s,n"
Bert: does am ambulance so
with vou ? "
lion in the Memsie Stakes; but the mount,
as at Williamstown, was entrusted to Frank
Dempsey. Dempsey differs vastly from
Munrd in his methods. Frank has delicate
hands, but dislikes being crowded for room,
and Middle Watch suffered on Saturday by
being squeezed at several stages. Where
Munro w T ould force a passage, Dempsey
prefers to drop back and grope for a later
opening. The fact of Middle Watch going
out at 10 to 1 was evidence enough that the
trainer, Ted Fisher, did not think his horse
was far enough advanced in condition to
win; but it will be surprising if there is
any uncertainty on that point when the
Leger winner next faces the starter.
Adam Skirving and his employer, “S. A.
Rawdon,” had reason for high satisfaction
over Waterline gaining second place in the
weight-for-age contest. He must have been
short of work when raced at Williamstown.
Ruach, from the same stable, was knocked
back last three furlongs from home in the
Memsie Stakes, but finished fifth with a
rush in the straight. Another outstanding
feature of the race was Segati’s display in
making the running and narrowly missing
a place. She is by Manfred from Wyuette,
a Caulfield Cup winner.
Duncan, greatest, of Melbourne jockeys,
won for Holt on Top Hole and High Brae
at Caulfield, but failed with Picatus and
Gall antic. At the home turn it appeared
as if Picatus was “home and dry” in the
Heatherlie Handicap. He was travelling on
the bit at that stage, but when challenged
in the straight he collapsed like a pricked
bubble. Thrawn, owned by the veteran
trainer H. W. Morton, scored in the last
few strides from The Dawn Patrol and
Taisho. In 1930 Taisho went out second
favorite for the Doncaster Handicap, but
fell. Since then he has raced in Westralia,
winning the Boulder Cup and running
second in the Kalgoorlie Cup. Back in the
Caulfield stable of M. T. McGrath; lie pro-
mises to do well this spring. Another
competitor in the Heatherlie Handicap was
First Arrow (imp.), who ran fourth in the
Doncaster Handicap last year. He has had
a long spell and will need tuning up.
P. B. Quinlan, who used to train Taisho,
won the first division of the Doona Trial on
Saturday with Reformer, a son of Spel-
tliorne. The second horse, Metallurgy,
showed greenness, but should improve with
every outing. L. K. S. Mackinnon s Mag-
pie four-year-old Magnesia was a hot-pot
for the other division of the Doona Trial,
but cut up badly after getting near the
front. This event went to Streperus, a
.son of Verbius, in whom a leading member
of the Victorian Bar has a half-interest.
Streperus let his connections down in a race
at Bendigo, and surprised them by scoring
handsomely in much better company.
$ :J: : i :
Veteran as he is, Jimmy Pike is riding
better than ever, and, barring accidents, he
bids fair to head the list of successful N.S.W.
jockeys this season, though handicapped by
his weight, which is round about 9st. Punters
have a liking for Jimmy, and an immense
respect for his horsemanship ; and there were
cheers when the Old Master got the grey
Sarinch (2 to 1) home in the first division
of the Flying Handicap at Canterbury Park.
He had to exert all his talents to beat off
Sky Brightcner’s challenge; with jockeys
changed, the three-year-old would very likely
have won. It was. the first leg of a double
for Pike, but his job on Whittingham (2 to
1) in the second division was comparatively
easy.
Whittingham had been scratched from
the Canterbury Stakes, a 141 b. allowance
notwithstanding. Pike’s mount in this race
was Greensea (6 to 1). and punters were
amused at his efforts to get a flying start,
taking advantage of a long delay for wlucii
Autopay (7 to 2) was chiefly responsible.
It was Holdfast (5 to 4) and N.E.F.
(10 to 1) who jumped out first, and Hold-
fast, who looked a picture, carried off the
race for the third time—in lmiru losec.
Greensea was gaining on him at the end,
but never looked like catching him; Auto-
pay was third. The others —Silver Ring,
Gaine Carrington, N.E.F., Rogilla and
Yalicare’s daughter Care Free —finished in
straggling order, but a poor start contributed
to that.
The elder Kelso has a Derby possibility in
Babili (Promised Land —Babylon), who
proved in the Three-year-old Handicap that
he can go at least a mile and a furlong
and finish full of running. Windbag’s son
Bombastic threatened danger for a time, but
was interfered with about four furlongs from
home, Babili, favorite at twos, came home
on the bit from Le Berger, a half-brother, by
Dark Fox, to Trenette, who was third to
Sarinch and Sky Brightener. The time was
fair —Jmin. 56isec.
Maoriland had a turn in the September
Handicap, which went to the favorite, Mana-
whenua (4 to 1). But if Webster could
have kept Strength (11 to 2) from running
wide, the Metrop. winner would not have
suffered defeat by a head. If Strength is
back to last year’s form he must command
respect for the Metrop. again, as he can stay
—and there are few very good stayers about.
Ramrod had every chance, but failed to
come on; and Philippic (8 to 1) beat a
poor lot for third place.
Confab, another of those four-year-olds,
closed a rather bad day for McShortodds by
taking the Campsie Handicap; Lord Kenna-
quhair (7 to 1) and King March (4 to 1)
were bis immediate followers. _ The Magpie
gelding was well supported at' sixes. King
March has cost followers of Jamieson’s
stable a ton of money these last feiv months.
For the Tatt.’s Club meeting at Rand-
wick :
Tramway Handicap: Jacko; next, Chat-
barn or Sir Duninald.
Chelmsford Stakes: Johnnie Jason; next,
Nigktmarch.
Spring Handicap: Circus Star; next,
Topical or Version.
Welter Handicap: Topical or Cynical;
next, Oratorian.
“Eagle Farm”: Following on the refusal
of the V.R.C. to issue permits to certain
bookmakers and jockeys for the ensuing
racing year, the Queensland Turf Club has
also taken action, but in a rather unex-
pected direction. It has given its three
stipes notice of termination of tlieir engage-
ments ' and is advertising for applications
for appointment to a new board. The club
expressly states that the integrity of the
retired trio is not questioned, and that they
are eligible for reappointment. The three
are Messrs. Gleeson (chairman), from Vic-
toria. Curley, of N.S.W.. and McGill, the last-
named for years a well-known racing man
whose family traditions go back to the early
days of the game in Queensland. So far
there has been only one casualty among, the
jockeys. Spencer, a fairly successful rider
who recently went up for 12, months, failed
to find his name on the licensed list, though
his appeal against the disqualification was
upheld.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Walter Browning (14st. 211 b.) and Alex
Lundyn (13st. 101 b.) were parties to the
speediest wrestling match yet.seen at Leich-
hardt. It looked like being the shortest
when Lundyn’s flying tackle and body-press
pinned Browning in the first minute. I he
Finn also worked the faster in the second and
third rounds; but Browning made him sub-
mit to a Boston crab in the fourth. H alter
wrestled so well afterwards that lie was
declared winner on points. There was some
exciting stoush also. Roy Burns (lOst.
131 b.), the Newcastle lefthander, knocked
“Starlight” (10s. 61b.) out in the sixth.
Burns is a good lad.
Footbrawl
With the four teams for the finals already
decided Melbourne’s League games on Satur-
day possessed only academic interest, Aet
the play was mostly good and marking and
kicking' surprisingly accurate considering
the stiff wind that swept, the grounds. Carl-
ton found St. Kilda in one of its depressed
moods and piled up 141 to 54. Melbourne,
which boasts three victories over Collingwood
in 30 years, once more found the contract
too large—Melb., 90 points; ’Wood, 113.
Fitzroy sparkled a bit against Richmond, but
faded away at the end —Richmond, 95 points ;
’Roy, 67. Essendon finished its season by
routing Hawthorn by 81 to 34; and North
Melbourne beat Footscray by 90 to 64. Gee-
long soothed ns supporters for its many
recent defeats by trouncing South Melbourne
enthusiastically—-125 to 69. The Hubbites
have played some fine games this season; but
for the four or five rotten ones they would
have been near the top. They possess only
one first-class forward—Moloney, the ex-
Westralian—and be can’t do all the scoring.
The N.S.W. Rugby League had only the
semi-finals of its competition in Sydney
to settle on Saturday and, considering that
the cricket season opens in the beginning of
October, it might have been supposed that
all four teams left in would have been en-
gaged. Not so. For the sake of another gate
or two only South and East Sydney took
the field, next Saturday Jjeing devoted to the
match between Balmain and Western Sub-
urbs. After that there will he a final final,
and presumably that will be the finish—
unless those in the filial make a draw of it.
At the Sports Ground South Sydney gave
its old friend Eastern Suburbs a rare past-
-36 to S, or 6 tries, 4 converted by
Williams to 2 tries and a penalty, gtHih
Play was fairly even m the farst halt, but m
the second the Eastern defence wilted and
Souths bolted, adding 18 points Eastern
Suburbs made a tatal error m adopting tin-
South Sydney formation of five forwards and
an extra back. The opposition was too
fooble to warrant many bouquets for the
Southerners, but Maher and Morrison were u
great pair of inside backs, and O Connor
played a champion game in the forwards, l ie
ex-Union player Phicknesse, at half, was the
best Eastern back, while. Syd I earce anfl
Stein- worked hard m the forward division,
« * * *
tvt « w r»„,i-
-1 ll< ; 6ual for ‘ * *« V" • c ia(dt ,,t
premiership was played CncK-t
Ground on Saturday between Manly and
Drummoyne the tormer wiififiiig by 1- to ■'
or a try and three palty
and a penally goal. Ihe game was
and tast, rising occasiomvlly to heiglrts M
clever combined play by both siclts. Mauly,
led by Malcolm was it any thing. «
more finished behind the fecmm, and should
have crossed the line, on two or three oeea-
sious. Drummoyne made the _ oU—
back opportunities, that . stcrlin* win s a
Palmer completing two great combined daisln-s.
The absence of the team s outside centre.
V O’Gorman, necessitating a rearrangement
of the back division, was an undoubted
Hni><4iea p, all d ,the .excellent of tlm
-Manly; full-back,.Sfittor'» ™
added to its :h : \d a
tocking on 5) pomte w th
drop-kick A great rally in thc ciosm* sta*
brought the Drummoyne scoic to J, but it
was the final flash, and at the close Manly
had the game well in hand. Of the wmtmisr
forwards, Telford and the Pas ]'.
were effective in evtf&thing.
pack had a trifle the. bottci of ,
and Cerutti doing great woik. A void must
be said for McPlullips. the Drummoyneiff
back who, after a good displaj stuck on
though the side has knocked hard at the dooi
on several occasions. The club is one ot
the mainstays of the Union game, and there
wil] ])(1 n<) cavi u ers at the victory,
* * *
~g t . The N . S .W. Rugby Union
authoritieS did llot increase their repute-
..... <• p-nvihlpiioss when dealins.’ with th-‘
inen sent off the field for rough play ill thr
Dl . ummoym ,. North Sydney match. The quart-
“severely cautioned.” which is tanta-
-1 to Mapping a gorilla on the wrist
'vitli a leather P Illegal play is out of place
(r and there is *a
" l . u. ‘ lnrd ' alld eanw-t
S* Oe SKa t ,£ if elbow ",;,1
'’U 1 " “““ 1 ® “ f tl . illo . f . an we n bc kit
o ttfose codes which have become notorious
Ior ir - -. , , ,
(Continued on next page.)
r. y. Michael, one of Adelaide’s finest
all-round athletes, died untimely the other
day at 21, following on an appendicitis
operation. At St. Peter’s: College and
Adelaide University, he was in the fore-
front of all sports, from track running to
lawn tennis, at which he represented .South
Australia in Linton Cup matches. lie was
doing exceptionally well at the University.
where he was studying for a degree in archi-
tcctural engineering.


' '
Ten seconds
to strop.
Ten seconds
to clean.
The VALET
Razor Strop & Blade form
the PERFECT SHAVING
PARTNERSHIP
Because the super-keen edge of a
“VALET” blade is perfectly strop-
ped each time you use it —you get a
better shave. Because the “VALET”
razor is so simple to use you get a
quicker shave. Because you definite-
ly want easier, quicker, better shav-
ing, get a “VALET” Auto Strop.
British Made —of all dealers.
Sets from 5/- to 65/-
“VALET"
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australia :—
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LIMTED,
181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray” : There has been a mighty up-
heaval in Melbourne League football circle®
over the League’s expressed intention of re-
vising its constitution in order to secure uni-
formity. The clubs composing it vary
greatly in the matter of their individual
constitutions. The League asks that all
should adopt a common form suggested by
it, and not later than September 30. The
new form contains 33 clauses, but the whole
trend of the new departure is the vesting
of control in the League executive and
the pruning of powers and privileges
hitherto enjoyed by individual clubs. One
important proviso is that no playing mem-
ber of a club may sit on the committee of
management, and members are not to be
allowed to elect officials or to appoint cap-
tains or vice-captains. The club committee
of management is to act in these cases. Some
of the clubs have already accepted the pro-
posed amendments. Others, like the impor-
tant. Carlton, are kicking against the pricks
and calling special general meetings of
members and supporters to thresh the matter
out.
“Amateur Pro’’: When the Australian
Rugby League Board of Control meets in
NO HIKING FOR HIM.
BATTERED PUG: “’Ow am I going?”
PESSIMISTIC SECOND: “Out on a flamin’ stretcher , by the look uv
yez.”
November it is to consider a means of
stopping the poaching of English players by
clubs. Promises and undertakings by the
parties interested have been useless as far as
the Englishmen have been concerned. It is
now proposed to place all Eeague footballers
approaching inter-State or international
form under legal contract to the Australian
Leagues. It is doubtful whether this,
scheme would work, for the recovery of
damages for breach would be an expensive
and doubtful business. It might also entail
hardship on players. Take the case of
Gee and Wilson, recently purchased in.
Queensland by Wigan. Both these lads
have been long out of work, Gee for over-
two years. It is too much to expect that
men in their position should refuse an offer
of a four years’ contract on comparatively
good terms, even if the money has to be
hardlv earned.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur” j The English liugby
League does not confine itself to pinching
Australian players. Wales has been for many
years a recruiting ground for it. especi-
ally the coal-mining and manufacturing
towns. Jim Sullivan, the full-back of the
English side lately here, was enlisted in this
way, and the latest is .T. C. Morley, of New-
port and Wales, the flying wing-three-quarter
with the British Union side which played
in M.L. and Australia two years ago.
Morley goes to Wigan with the Queens-
landers Gee and Wilson.
“Stand Off”: One of the Rugby Union
plums for which a lot of folk are' waiting
with their mouths open is the job of man-
ager of the Australian team during the
tour of South Afrca. At first N.S.W.
assumed that the selection should be in her
hands, but Queensland and Victoria objected
so emphatically that it is now likely that
Ma will allow representatives from other
States to boil the applications down to
four, from which the N.S.W. body will make
the final choice. The job will be no sine-
cure, for the distances to be travelled are
in many instances considerable, and if is
likely that one of the players will act as
offsider.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: Though it is by no means
definite that the promised visit from Ameri-
can tennis-players is a dead snip, the
Australian tennis heads have drawn up a
tentative itinerary which is being sent to
Honolulu, where the Yanks intend to “stop
off,” to use their own language. The side
is expected in Sydney on November 6, and
7 of f with a three-day battle against
N.S.W. which begins, on November 10
Brisbane gets the first Test, beginning
November 24. Then to Melbourne for the
Victorian championships, and after that to
Tassy. The second Test against Australia
starts at Perth on Christmas Eve, and then
against South Australia and
the third rest at Adelaide. The fourth Test
will be played in Sydney, beginning January
12, and the team then goes to Melbourne for
the Australian championships and the final
Lest. The tourists start on their wav home
1 ml inter i U nt in Maoriland, on February
10. They get 2o per cent, of gross takings
mm all matches, with an indemnification
against loss.
“Baseline”: McGrath continues to im-
prove his tennis form, though he has done
an amazing amount of play for a youngster
during* the past year. Fresh from his win
in the inter-State match against that great
player Moon, of Queensland, he turned out
in the City of Sydney championships last,
week —practically a N.S.W. affair —and won
the title, beating such formidable oppon-
ents as It. Dunlop and Jim Willard, both
Australian representatives.
“Top Spin'’: An exceeding bitter howl
was emitted by the tennis expert of a Syd-
ney journal the other day, when it was
hinted that the Australian team to meet
the visiting Americans in the first Test at
Brisbane will comprise Moon, Cummings,
McGrath and Crawford. The expert added
that the selection would stagger Australia
and asked passionately why only one mem-
ber of the Australian Davis Cup team is
included. The answer is easy. Read the
record of that team in America and Europe.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Delia”: Golf probably supplies more
material for long-bovr stories than any
other game, but queerly enough they are
generally true. At
Wentworth Falls
(N.S.W.) Dr. Al-
corn a n d T e d
Barnes, the club
professional, each
played a short chip
to the green at tin'
same time. T h e
balls met in the air
just above the tin
and both dropped
into it. That, of
course, was an easy
one, but what about
this recent Victor-
ian occurrence? J.
F. Fairley, of Sliep-
parton club, drove
a ball so deep into
the bark of a tree
that it had to be ex-
tracted by hand.
There was the usual
rules argument, but
t h e issue seems
quite plain to me.
It was manifestly
an unplayable lie,
and the penalty
would be stroke and
distance (rule 22).
Rule 6, which says
that the ball must
be played wherever
it lies or the hole be
given up, might also
app 1 y. Personally
my chief concern
would be the keep-
ing in mind of one
of the “Hints on
Golf Etiquette”
issued by a club of
which I was once a member. This ran:
“Under no circumstances shall members give
vent to their feelings in bad language, especi-
ally in the presence of associate members
or caddies.”
* * * *
“Marino”: The women’s golf champion-
ships in Adelaide proved a triumph for the
Victorian contingent. The Yarrasiders
began by winning the inter-State matches,
downing South Australia and N.S.W., while
the Tolhurst sisters took the foursomes.
The big event, the singles championship, was
won by Mona McLeod 4 up and 2 from
another Victorian. Mrs Alec Russell. The
N.S.W. girls Miss Lcfebvre and Miss Ebert
both played fine golf, and it was unfortunate
the pair had to meet in the second round,
Miss Ebert getting through to the semi-
finals, in which the ultimate winner outed
her. This is Mona McLeod’s fourth Aus-
tralian championship, her first being in
1921. Miss G. B. Mackenzie has equalled
this record, having won four times in five
years, beginning in 1594.
* * * *
“Brass Addler”: Some time ago the
writer impressed on Bulletin readers the
necessity for making an admission charge
to the public attending big golf events, and
the statement by Susie Tolhurst (B.
31/8/’32) that a women’s team may come
to Australia in 1934 revives interest in the
suggestion. We cannot get visiting golf
teams here without paying liberal expenses,
and so far there is no organised system of
raising the necessary money. Professionals
like Hagen and Kirkwood who take a
risk on percentages are in a different cate-
gory from a team of amateurs. Yet then-
visit showed that it was quite possible, with
a little trouble and at small expense, to
collect a decent gate. At the last American
championships 20,000 people paid 9s. each
to watch the play. No wonder they have
funds over there to improve the condition
of the game and to entertain visiting teams
from Europe every season.
❖ *' A"
“Brassey”: If ever we are to bring teams
of players from overseas—and that is the
only way we shall ever improve our unde-
niably low golf standards—we will have to
stiffen up most of our courses. The Aus-
tralian championships on the Seaton links
at Adelaide, one of the trickiest in Aus-
tralia, badly showed up most of the N.S.W.
players, accustomed as they arc to the
Sydney layouts, which seemed to be designed
for first-year associates. Certainly a Welsh-
man won the amateur championship at
Seaton, but he learned his golf on English
courses, on which the average N.S.W.
scratch men would hardly be able to return
cards of under three figures. Melbourne,
which has one or two really good modern
courses, has a better lot of amateurs than
Sydney can boast.
* * * x
“Hoylake”: There has been another rum-
pus in the British golf world over the de-
cision of the Prince’s club at Sandwich to
cashier Colonel Bogey and award a par
figure to each hole. Bogey was 79; the
par for the round is to be 72, with only
a. solitary 0 par hole. Most of the leading
British amateurs are members of the club
and this will compel a revision of handi-
caps throughout Britain. Plus men at
Prince’s will now play from scratch, aud
long markers will have their handicaps ex-
tended. The par system is universal in
America and is being adopted in. most of
the Australian States, though Bogey is also
retained. Playing against par is not calcu-
lated to improve a weak game, especially
in the case of nutting, for a player may
have lost the hole on his par figures before
lie gets on the green. Par has been described
as perfect golf without flukes, and how
many of us can claim to be par players?
Car and Cycle
“Duruft'diir” : The way of the bush motor-
ist is sometimes rather hard. A friend of the
writer’s some days ago had a tough job
starting his car after a spell at a roadside
Pub. Starting off, he found the engine
missing badly, so pulled up to investigate.
Stretched along the top of the engine he
found a large goanna. The beast wag but
recently dead, and whether it had got in
there itself and been electrocuted by
some mysterious short circuit, or had been
put there by some morose pedestrian, is
Avhat he is trying to puzzle out.
“Whizz”: One aspect of a motor speed
test on the dried bed of Lake George, N.S.W.
(B. 31/8/’32), is that it would be possible
to have a spe.ed test and a race at the same
time, supposing that there were two or
more contestants. At Daytona, and on
Maoriland’s 90-mile Beach, there is no room
for more than one car at a time. The
barrackers for the Lake George track
claim that there is room for at least a
dozen cars for a run over from 10 t 0 20
miles. The surface, available for eight
months of the year, only requires rolling.
There is no danger, as at Daytona or Wai-
taia, of Avind or other weather conditions
interfering. The lake-bed is only 200
miles from Sydney, and convenient to the
southern railway. If it were possible to
get Malcolm Campbell, Wizard Smith and
the American challenger Barney Oldfield, all
going _ for the lick of their lives at once,
motoring history would be made.
❖ i'fi * *
“Roller”: Australia, which first intro-
duced Britain to the fascinating sport of
motor-cycle racing on “dirt” tracks, found
the local talent so quick to learn that, after
a feAv seasons, they Avere defeating the An-
tipodean cracks in the series of matches
held annually. It is likely that an English
team will be seen in Australia late in the
year or early in 1933. J. S. Hoskins, one
of the Australians avlio pioneered the sport
in England, and avlio now manages the
Wembley track, is making the arrangements,
and ali the leading British riders are
keen to come. The game is popular here,
and a tour of the kind should show a good
profit.
Miscellaneous
“Biamall Lane”: With the English
cricket season practically finished, York-
shire comes out on top in the county cham-
pionship. This is the seventh time since
the war that the Tykes have taken the
title. Much of the credit is due to the left-
hand bowler Verity, whom we shall see here
in November. A«otset feature .of the season
was Sutcliffe'S topping of the 3000-run murk
—-the third time lie has turned the trick.
Ran ji, Tom Hayward and Mead have
each done it twice. “Sutty” is going to give
our bowlers something to go on with this
coming season. Perhaps our “bowler” —
Grimmett, to wit —would be a better way
of putting it.
* * * «
“Shrewsbury” : English cricket took a bad
knock last week when it was decided that
Dulcepsinhji should drop out of the team
for Australia, , which, however, he may
accompany on a health tour. The last
invalid that came this way with a
cricket team was George Gunn of Notts in
1907 k A. O. Jones had to claim him as
a batsman, and George headed the averages
with 51.93, including two Test centuries, so
it is on the cards that the “Tulip” may
follow suit. lie is replaced by the Lancas-
trian Paynter. With Verity, Voce and
Leyland in, Paynter will make the fourth
left-hander.
“Brian Born”: Ireland has got in early
with a demand for the 1940 Olympic Games,
which the distressful countliry wants
staged in Dublin. The claim is based on
the efficiency with which the recent Euchar-
istic Conference, which brought over a mil-
lion strangers to Dublin, Avas handled.
There are other countries with more
pressing claims, Italy being one of them,
while Germany is also understood to be an
aspirant. One thing is certain, and that is
that Australia is never likely to get a look
in. This country is too far off and too iso-
lated to attract European teams cn masse
and the necessary crowds of supporters.
“Backwoodsman”: Last week-end was a
pretty heavy one for N.S.W. bowlers, and
I doubt if many of them have got round to
normal yet. The Victorians have so con-
sistently towelled N.S.W. for some years
past that, when Ma managed to win the
inter-State match in Melbourne last year,
strong men had to take to their beds
for days. Victoria visited Queensland the
other day, and inflicted the daddy of a hid-
ing on the Bananalanders. On their way
back they got off the train to do the same
by N.S.W., and, to the astonishment of all
concerned, were soundly trounced. Naturally
there was a sound of revelry by night in
Noo South’s ancient capital and a strong
demand for soda, Vichy, and rum and milk
next morning.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”; That reference to an Aus-
tralian ski-ing team for Europe (B.
31/8/’32) reminds me that an Australian. T.
W. Mitchell, of Victoria, won the Maoriland
ski-ing championship at Tongariro National
Park. The championship is awarded to the
contestant gaining highest points in the
cross-country, slalom and downhill races.
Mitchell chalked up 285 points, the next
man scoring only 217. Mitchell also took
the Major Head trophy for the combined
results of the slalom and downhill events.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND ‘ - 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
DITCCtOTS *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
IF YOU MUST BE PAID
TO READ THE NEWS...
....what of the advertisements?
"The Brisbane Courier” depends for circulation solely on its
wholesome, cleanly-presented news and its vigorous policy in
public questions. Subscribers buy it to read it. As a result its
circulation is the greatest and most effective in all Queensland.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s leading paper for 84 years.
Representative: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
John Lane Mullins made a sort of royal
progress through the galleries at the Society
of Artists’ private view. John, who is
beloved by Sydney artists, young and old, is
just getting abroad again after an illness
which kept him 10 weeks in St. Vincent’s.
With him was daughter Barbara, her shoul-
ders warmed by one of the new fur capes.
Everywhere there are fragments of the
Anzac Memorial. Large-size busts peer down
from high pedestals, though not so high as
the 70ft. columns which will encompass the
building itself. A model of this, done in
white, stands in the middle of the inner
room. Next to it is the much-debated figure
of martyred Civilisation. After that come
models of all the soldier figures which will
be mounted on the columns. Quite unin-
spiring, as yet; but, as one girl said, it
won’t ever matter very much if they are to
be 70ft. high.
Among the looked-at was a tall, bearded
man with a nice girl in a green linen
dress and black velvet beret and short
black velvet coat, who brought an atmosphere
of the Latin Quarter into the exhibition.
He is one of Sydney’s rare male models,
and his face and head appear several times
on the walls. The arrival of Prudence Van-
brugh Dickson also turned the heads of many.
But as she showed only a line of rather dull
Englisli-looking tweeds, eyes dropped back to
catalogues after one glance. One of D.
PI. Souter’s attractive daughters was looking
pensively at art jewellery. President Syd
Ure Smith was doing the honors, and John
D. Moore was receiving compliments on the
portrait of himself by Norman Carter. It
is one of the most likeable bits of work
Norman Carter has done. This Letter’s
interest was also held by B. E. Minus’s his-
toric “North of Manly,” and the small panel
picture “Sister Rigoletta,” lent by Howard
Hinton. “Sister Rigoletta” is by Jan Van
Beers, a Belgian artist, who held exhibi-
tions in London in the ’eighties. This pic-
ture was shown in the Manchester Jubilee
Exhibition in 1887.
Unless one was very nimble, the crush
on the day the show was opened was too
great to allow one to get near the pictures.
The poetry of the Lloyd Rees pencil sketches
and the charcoals of Albert Collins in the
first room drew this Letter while, buttressed
between two models for the Anzac Memorial,
Mayor Sam Walder spoke the overture. With-
in the inner room progress was only made by
squirming sideways—the heads had overdone
the display of models for the Anzac Memo-
rial, which were placed at intervals all
down the middle of the room.
Hats and speeches were mostly dull.
Women’s noses seemed to be worn obtrusive
—probably only the result of small brims.
The Bavins were rather late arrivals, he
looking in much better health. Mrs. Tom
Rolin, very handsome in black and white,
wag. with tiie Justice Rich couple, the learned
gentleman making artist B. 13. Minns blush
when he asked “Ho you know the latest
warm yarn?” and laugh explosively at the
Justice’s quickly-fired answer to his own
query, “Wool!” Mrs. G. H. Rayncr, soon to
leave Sydney, walked in smart grey tailor-
ings and talked to Oswald Cheeke; Mary
Coen, from Mudgee, whose portrait by
Harvey is among the much-admired, was
another in the seething mass. Hilda Lane
Mullins’s black suit was a classic, and young
artist Isabel Huntley added a hat of Parma
violet to the pattern of the afternoon. Mrs.
Wunderlich in mignonette greens, Lionel
Lindsay and shining-haired nephew Peter,
sculptor Theo Cowan, Stella George, the
John D. Moores, Sarah Hynes and Charlie
Westmacott were others who turned the
eye of admiration on the Gruners, and looked
a second time at Hanke’s “Calvary,” in
which, one of his friends told this Letter, he
has painted himself among the onlookers.
This is following the custom of the Old
Masters, who often identified themselves
with their work in this manner rather than
by their signatures.
Telepathy or coincidence? Remember
Norman Lindsay's cartoon last week? Science
gazes down on the Earth. “Look at the
place!” lie said to Wisdom; “want and
misery everywhere, and more food and goods
than it can use.” “Yes,” answered Wisdom,
“you have given them much, without teach-
ing them how to use it.” On the day after
tliig was published, as a sort of P.S. to the
Science Congress in Sydney, the parent
British Association met at York. The great
engineer Sir Alfred Ewing delivered the pre-
sidential address; and Lindsay’s drawing
might have been the text. Sir Alfreds
way of saying it was that “the modern
world has been enriched by the bounty of
scientists and invefitors; but man is ethic-
ally unprepared for so great a bounty.”
Incidentally, Norman Lindsay has one of
his rare one-inau shows in hand ; much of the
work to be exhibited was done in Norman’s
year or so of recent travel. It will be opened
in the Macleod Gallery about the middle of
next mouth. By that time P. R. Stephen-
sen, the former Queensland Rhodes scholar,
will be in Sydney to discuss with Mr. Lind-
say and others his plans for book-publishing
in Australia.
Proud of its middle-aged spread is Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital, which midway
through this mouth will celebrate its fiftieth
birthday. So famous is. it as a training
ground for medical student and hospital
nurse that daily the Jubilee fund is receiv-
ing donations from every corner of the State.
For, of course, the finance committee is turn-
ing the Jubilee into a collection-box. These
lean times no avenue of garnering funds can
be ignored, so there is a series of money-
raisers—a ball in the Blaxland Galleries on
the 25th. a fair in the Town Hall, a water
party and a hiking excursion ; and the Art
and Literature auxiliary will run an old
book and print; shop under the direction of
Mrs. W. Epps.
In the 50 years of its service to the public
names well known in Sydney’s medical his-
tory have been among the hospital’s supers.
The first of them was the late W. S. Byrne;
the present is Dr. W. A. Bye; others in
between included Scot Skirving, Cecil Purser,
E. J. Jenkins and James Graham. Dr. Earle
Page’s wife was a trainee; so were Mrs. W.
B. Studdy and the wife of Professor Sandes.
Of all these surely Scot Skirving, still
with us, must be the most versatile. He
first came this way as a boy in one of the
sailing-ships of the ’seventies; then, turning
from the sea to medicine, he graduated at
Edinburgh ; he served in the Boer War as a
military surgeon; lie wrote a history of “Our
Army in S’Africa” ; years ago he even pub-
lished a novel, “Love and Longitude” ; and
in liis day there wasn’t a better yachtsman
in Sydney.
This Letter’s good friend Howard Hinton
is the seventh to receive the mucli-coveted
medal of the Society of Artists. This is
given for services to art, and nobody in Aus-
tralia has a better title to it than he. A
great buyer of Australian paintings, he has
presented 90 of the best examples to the
National Gallery, as well as 28 British and
foreign works. Others who hold this medal
are veteran Julian Ashton, John Connell,
Baldwin Spencer, Victor Mann (now in
charge of the Macleod Gallery), Bernard
Hall and Sydney Ure Smith.
This is the
latest photo-
graph of Mrs.
J. K. Caldwell,
wife of the
new Consul-
General for
the United
States. The
lady has
quickly iden-
tified herself
with the social
life of Sydney,
and is as easy
to talk to as
her already
popular hus-
band—perhaps
their frank
admiration of
our climate,
o u r harbor
and our ways
lias something
to do with their success. Dorothy Welding
made this picture.
St. Mark’s, Rushcutter Bay, was the
scene of a wedding with quite ah historic
interest. The bridegroom, Charles Messenger,
is a grandson of James Messenger, who was
the Royal bargemaster, and also champion
sculler of England in 1854. Charles has
known many exciting shark-fishing expedi-
tions. The dainty little bride, looking charm-
ing in her white maroc-ain frock with rare
old lace veil, is the only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Harold: Wallis, of Coogee. Mr.
Wallis was one of the socialistic band who
started out to form, New Australia in
Paraguay. The bride’s (mother is a niece of
William Lane, the leader of the expedition,
and she, too, spent some years at Paraguay
with her parents.
Incidentally, word still reaches The Bul-
letin office now and then from the remnants
of the New Australia expedition left in S.
America. Mr. T. Martyn keeps most in
touch with the homeland they left 40-odd
years ago; a line came from him last week.
The little colony is far from prosperous, and
the life still very hard.
Doris Fitton led her Independents on to
another victory when she presented the
stage version of “Disraeli.” Patricia Min-
chin, who was the sweet girl, Clarissa Perven-
sey, wore eye-dazzling raiment. Her first entry
was made in a frock of which the apron-
fronted, bustle-backed skirt was of flowered
silk, the apron and the bow being edged
with emerald-green r striped silk, while the
little firm bodice was of emerald-green
taffeta. Her descent on Downing-street was
made in sky-blue silks, aproned and bustled,
and with cascades of lace falling from the
sleeves and frilling the apron. With this
was worn a blue hat, suggestive of the
scuttle, lined with pink and trailing a blue
ostrich feather. The adventuress, Mrs.
Noel Travers, who tried to snatch Suez
from England for another Power, walked
peacock-proud into the lion’s den in a frock
of royal-blue silk, very stiff, the stiffened
points of its very bunched-up skirt showing
a lining of lime greens. Her small flat
hat was of the same rich blue, begirt with
feather, and showed a flash of crimson at
the left side. As for Ailsa Sutherland, in
the last act her pretty shoulders emerged
triumphant from the low-cut bodice of the
Victorian period. This frock was in tones
of pink, the faded pink of the silken ground
being splashed with bright-pink roses. It
was voluminous and trained, and with it
.she carried a posy, of flowers —very pink
flowers in a silver filigree holder. Dulcie
Oolien’s Lady Beacoiisfield was a masterpiece
of make-up and gentle frocking. (Dulcie is
the Rabbi’s daughter, you know.)
Apropos bustles. A lady of the period
tells this Letter that in the days when
they were worn, really nice girls didn’t men-
tion the word. But “improvers” could be
spoken without a blush.
Paddie Donohoe, not yet 16, a Goulburu
youngster, lias
just published
a booklet of
verse. It is
the sort of
happy rhym-
ing you’d ex-
pect from an
imagin ativc
child, full of
intimate refer-
ences to rain-
fa o w s and
fairies. She is
gifted with a
nice if so far
resti’icted use
of words, and
she lias an ear
for rhyme and
rhythm. Paddie
is on her way
to the brother-
hood of Aus-
tralian writers.
Last Thursday the sixth annual reunion
of the officers of the sth Brigade was held
at the Imperial Service .Club. The reunion
took the form of a dinner for all units—
engineers, artillery, signals, infantry and
field ambulance. It was the anniversary of
Mont St. Quentin, that amazing capture
which all the brass-hats (except the Auzacs)
believed impossible. “My wonderful boys,
my wonderful boys,” said old General (later
Lord) Rawlinson afterwards —“I don’t
know how they did it!” “I could tell him,”
whispered one hard-bitten Australian officer:
“it was our cheek.”
The only reigning Queen in the world
last week celebrated her birthday, and up in
his Consulate the Consul-General for the
Netherlands, very correct in his decorations,
gave the toast of Wilhclmina' of Holland.
There was a great gathering of Consuls and
the important among the Dutch, and the
portrait of the Queen in her robes of
state received many a compliment. This
picture, which dominates the Chief’s room,
is a reproduction of a painting by a cele-
brated Dutch woman artist. Wilhclmina,
only now 52, has already celebrated her
silver jubilee. She was crowned at eight-
een, and even then her wisdom and good
judgment were notable. The slim, good-
looking girl has now grown into a handsome
matron, who spends most of her life in her
country palace near Apeldoorn. Here she
paints water-colors, and spends hours riding.
Her Court is extremely simple. In January
and February she is in residence at her
palace at The Hague; here sire stages a
dinner and reception to the diplomatic corps
and two or three State balls. In October
she does the same by Amsterdam; but her
heart is in the Loo, her country home. She
reads the literature of many countries.
The Queen is a brilliant linguist, and her
daughter*, the Princess Juliana, has inherited
her studious ways. She is fond of visiting
Norway and Sweden, and a year or so ago
she spent a. holiday in the English Lakes
district. Paris, too, she likes. But her
travels are always strictly incognito. Her
great moment each year is the opening of
Parliament, when she reads from her throne
the speeches to both Houses. Her enuncia-
tion is crystal clear. She has a warm
personal feeling for her people: a short time
ago she called in a great artist, asked him
to choose the best of her own paintings, and
had a sale of them for the benefit of the
unemployed. Needless to say, the money
simply poured in. One of her favorite water-
colors', reproduced as a photograph, is sold
for the benefit of poor fishermen. Her hus-
band is Prince Henry of Mecklenburg-
Schwerin.
Ethelwyn Kirk’s “Isis’’ costume at the
Music Revels on Saturday night deserves a
word to itself—the dress was a soft cas-
cade of silver tissue transparencies, and the
head-dress was the gold-breasted and -headed
bird with the red wings of royal Egypt.
Ethelwyn made bird and dress and all, as
befits a student of design. The first-prize
winner was Miss Hook, with a clever repre-
sentation of a ’cello, and among the long
list of trophy-collectors were Thelma Hous-
ton’s effective Pink Lady, Josephine Marks's
Duchess of Dantzig, and Daphne Harpur s
Hungarian Rhapsody Company. John
Brownlee and his wife, Rita Miller in her
frilled black laces, Gladys Monerieff and
Roy Shepherd brought the atmosphere of
the theatre and concert into the big ball-
room of David Jones’s.
Every girl who ran up the steps to the
Palais the other night might have been
Sunshine Susie, who sings “I don’t know
why I’m happy, I only know I am" (and.
incidentally, this Letter heard of a small ,Tew
boy who refused to sing that line). The
Picnic Ball lured hundreds of girls and
boys out to the Moore Park jazz arena, and
cakes home-made, and bottles that were
not, were carried this side iip with care,
for tlie great idea was to bring your own
tucker. This was eaten later on in the
evening by nearly 1400 revellers, who almost
felt they had gone bush when they saw the
gum- and wattle-trees .and the post-and-
rail fences that surrounded them. Many of
the girls arrived in the cotton evening frocks
which have been the craze of holiday-making
France and England. These muslins, dimi-
ties and printed linens, being tubbed and
scrubbed, have the merit of emerging as it
from a bath of beauty. The Home for
Incurables at Ryde will benefit, and the
committee, which had Noreen Dangar and
Marv Wentworth as its secretaries, must
have 1 been almost startled at the success in
these rationed times. Socially it was a high-
toned affair; the Governor, aided by Royce
Shannon, was present, and gave his approval
to the cocker spaniel pup that was the prize
in a guessing competition. Lud Mayor Sant
Walder came with his lady, who wore cherry-
red chiffons splashed with silver, and the
John Brownlees arrived after his concert
in the Town Hall. The Chief Justice ami
his lady, who was president of the ball,
were in the official group.
At Peebles; in Scotland, the centenary
of Sir Walter Scott’s death was marked by
a pageant of the novelist’s characters, and
Goulburn feels that it was linked up with
the ceremony. Major-General Sir Walter J.
Maxwell-Scott, of Abbotsford, a great-grand-
son of the author, is a brother of the first
Mrs. Dalglish, of Pomeroy, who died 10 years
ago. The present Mrs. Dalglish was Hazel
Jenkins, who before her first marriage was
Hazel Hay.
Bananaland bits
The Governor and his wife and daughter are up
on the northern caneflelds. They had a great
reception in little Cardwell, and are going across
to Dunk Island to ramble in the haunts Banfield has
immortalised in his beachcomber books.
Jack Victor, son of the late G. R. Fox and of
Mrs. G. A. Cryle, Auchenfiower, is co marry Catherine
May, daughter of the late A. K. Richards and of
Mrs. Richards, New Farm.
Thelma Wildman announces her engagement to
Alfred Fuller, of New Farm.
St. Peter’s, Wynnurn South, saw the marriage of
Albert Soares to Anne, daughter of the late Dr. A.
E. Hewer, Longreach, and Mrs, Hewer, Wynnuni.
Mr. J. P. Peterson gave the bride away; she wore
flat silk crepe and a Honiton lace veil. Ethel Hewer
’maided in blue floral georgette. The reception was
at the bride’s home, Langton.
The Journalists’ Ball took place in the Trocadero,
proceeds going to the benevolent fund. Deputy
Governor Blair and his lady were there, with Miss
D. Alcock and Duncan Pierson. T.ands Minister
Pease, with his wife and daughter, looked in during
the evening. Mrs. W. Young wove fine black Chan-
tilly lace, Mrs. Pease black silk lace, Mrs. Dunn
Nile-green, Nancy Pease tea-rose satin. The Macart-
ney knight arid the C. E. Sligos were amongst the
throng. Cartoons and posters were contributed by
lan Gall, W. Bustard, Eric Hannan, L. Revill, C, C.
Brammal, E. S. Watson, lan Mcßain, H. Berry,
P. Atherton and L. Bresson. A special paper, the
“Midnight Miracle,” was published.
Nathan Joseph Firth, from Maoriland, married
Isobella M. Letherland, daughter of the late G. J.
Letherland and of Mrs. Letherland, Kelvin Grove, in
St. James’s, Kelvin Grove. The bride, who was given
away by her uncle, Mr. J. Alexander, was in ivory
satin and georgette with a flounce of Chantilly lace
and veil of broidered tulle. Helen Letherland
’maided in pink georgette and Olga Martin was
flower girl in pink satin. The feasting was at the
bride’s home.
Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart has been elected president
of the National Council of Women of Queensland
for the seventh successive year.
The Mayoress presented trophies won at the inter-
state croquet tournament at the Merthyr Club. Mrs.
W. H. Austin welcomed the guests, assisted by Mrs.
Manning. Mrs. Forgan Smith wore blue cloth and a
fur coat; the Mayoress was in burgundy; Mrs.
Austin was in rose marocain.
Josie Mullan, daughter of the Attorney-General, is
to marry J. C. Wallach, of Sydney, on September 8.


sdf
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Lrip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caul field,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
■THE Saturday circulation of “The
Barrier Miner” is now between
7000 and 8000. This is important for
National Advertisers to know. Be-
sides a page of the latest sporting
news from all over Australia the
Sport Edition contains the whole of
the general Saturday news and all
the advertisements.
It is over 44 years since “The Bar-
rier Miner” became the great daily for
the Far West —town and country. It
is still published twice every day at
Famous Broken Hill.
How to Add Years
to Your Life and
Life to Your Years
You can take ten years from your
age. It is for you to decide whether
you will be nervous, vitiated, weak and
sickly, or whether you shall glow with
vitality and health—equipped to face
life’s problems with goodwill and good
cheer. Do you suffer fr/m every ail-
ment that happens? Hgtve you con-
stipation, indigestion, gastritis, back-
ache, catarrh, pimples? Do you suffer
from headaches, rheumatism, eczema,
neuritis, weakness of any organ, gas
in the stomach and bowels, bladder
complaint? Have you lost your old
youthful energy? It is because you
are unconsciously permitting poisons
that bring on disorder and disease to
remain in your system.
No matter how regular your daily
habits, through faulty and incomplete
action of the bowels, particles of food
waste become encrusted in the walls
of the intestine. This waste accumu
lates and breeds germ-producing poi-
sons which enter the blood-stream, thus
undermining your health —taking power
from those life-giving organs of Nature
—making you old, years before your
time. Most internal sickness is now
traced to dreaded self-poisoning ( autox -
ima) —'the result of hidden, unsuspected
constipation.
Be internally clean. Dislodge this
crust from the intestine and cleanse
the blood-stream. Free the system of
the poisonous waste matter. Drink
COLOSEPTIC—the simple and prompt
way to internal cleanness—to freedom
from aches and pains —to glorious
health and fitness —to new life —new
vitality, new energy. COLOSEPTIC
acts on the intestine, the kidney, the
pores of the skin, and the respiratory-
apparatus —Nature’s four great chan-
nels for the disposal of impurities from
the body. You can get COLOSEPTIC
in regular full-size jars from all chem-
ists. Send 1/- stamps or postal note
to COLOSEPTIC CO., LTD., Dent.
M 4, 24 Jamieson Street, Sydnev.
for a Special Demonstration Jar of
COLOSEPTIC. and the interesting
booklet “Autoxima.”
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Fair wearers of the boater, gem or Breton
varieties of sailor hat have mastered the art
of keeping the old-style millinery at the new
angle. At Caulfield on Saturday the wind
blew half a gale, but not one hat varied its
slant. The explanation is hatpins, but in
most cases they were skilfully hidden. Spring
headgear had a great outing, and there was
a good showing of tailored suits of between-
seasons modes, in light-weight materials. A
novel outfit was of wool georgette of blood-
red hue with a cape of mail traced upon it
in steel nailheads; the same ironmongery
covered the cuffs. Overcoats and furs were
few, for the sun was warm out of the breeze.
Among those who donned summery suits was.
Mrs. Rupert Downes, whose turnout was in
chocolate, fawn and white tones, with a
brown felt hat. Mrs. W. Mortill mingled
in her tweed frock fawn, green, black and
yellow; Mrs. Richard Linton sported in her
coat and skirt a tiny check design in amber
and brown, topped by a velvet hat. Navy
was much in favor, and there was an
avalanche of blue frocks of the cheerier of
the new shades. Mrs. Len Buxton, whose
horse High Brae won the Memsie Stakes,
chose a black cloth coat and skirt, silver
fox furs and a black straw sailor hat that
had a twist of black and white. Mrs. Ken-
neth Robinson, who was with Anne Willis,
wore a rust-red knop cloth suit with match-
ing felt hat. Others who patrolled the lawns
were V.A.T.C. chairman Ben Ohaffey
and his wife, the Merson Coopers, the Percy
Blaekbourns, Mrs. P. Nunn, a study in grey,
Dr. and Mrs. Brendon O’Sullivan, Mrs. W.
P. Mein and Mrs. Kimptpn.
The Yarra Glen-Lilydale Hunt Club’s
race meeting at Moonee Valley fell on a
bitterly cold day, but the attendance was
good. Dressing was a matter of furs and
topcoats. President F. B. Lithgow brought
his wife, whose tweed ensemble and felt lmt
were in shades of brown, worn with a gay
scarf. Dr. A. E. Syme—“Mr. Rawdon” on
the turf—who is the club’s M.F.H., came
with his daughter Ursula.
The Kennel Country Hunt Ball auspiccd
by the Findon Harriers’ Hunt Club at Wol-
lert was a jolly affair. Emblems of the
chase were mingled in the decorations, and
the pink coats of the men added color to a
scene in which there was plenty of bright-
hued frocking. J. L. Byrne, the Findon
club’s M.F.H., headed the committee with
Mrs. Byrne, who was in peacli-pink chiffon.
Pat Clarke, who trailed filmy black lace, and
Nan Cook, in white crepe and tulle, were the
lion, ticket secs. Mrs. R. M. Cuthbertson
was there in a frock of cornflower-blue lace.
Lud Mayor Smith, Major-General G. J.
Johnston, C. C. Moore, the Melbourne Hunt
Club's Master, and Mrs. Moore, and W. H.
Magennis, Master of the Oaklands Hunt
Club, and Mrs. Magennis were others in
the throng.
For the R.A.C. dance at the Wattle Path
the decorations were in blue and gold, the
club’s colors. Women members who helped
to organise the hop were Mrs. 11. J. Bean,
wife of the president, who danced in corn-
flower-blue velvet; Mrs. George Ramsay,
whose lace gown was garnet red ; and Mrs.
A. G. Harston, who mingled black velvet
and lace in her frock. Mayoress Johnson, of
St. Kilda. topped her black lace draperies
with a white fur coat. Among the guests
was Mrs. E. W. Cox, whose princess robe
was of nattier-blue georgette, with a sparkle
of rhinestones.
Pictured here by Ruskin is Mrs. Louis
Monod, wife of the new secretary of the
R.A.S. She
will have
charge of the
Women’ s
Work section
at the coming
s h o w. O n
many occa-
sio n s sh e
assisted Mrs.
Schwieger,
wife of the
late secretary.
Like her hus-
band, M r s.
Monod comes
from a Bal-
larat family.
As Florence
Brown she was
sister-in-
cliarge of the
children’s
ward at the
. Homoeopathi c
Hospital. During the war she was at Caul-
field Military Hospital.
The Authonians gave a bright little dance
at the Australia in aid of their pet charity.
Lucille Meehan, the president, wore a dainty
frock of pink taffeta with coatee in silver
and mauve-hued lame. Alma Mabous, who
danced in frock of white chiffon much
frilled, and Nan .O’Callaghan, who sported
pale primrose georgette, were hon. secs. Mrs.
P. L. Coleman, a vice-president, was there
in leaf-green lace. Other officials were Freda
Coffey, in prune-colored lace; Olive Wood,
in fascinating geranium-red georgette; Nella
Sheehan, in a rose organdie gown, the cor-
sage of which was trimmed witli white roses ,
and Kathleen Meehan, in white georgette’.
Barbara Weir and Jack Andrew did exhibi-
tion dances.
A very successful charity dance at the Rex
was organised by the newly-formed Business
Girls Auxiliary. Mrs. Thorold Fink, presi-
dent of the committee, was there with a
party of friends, and wore mole-colored satin
with a detachable cape. The lion, ticket secre-
taries were Miss Y. Tanner, whose lilac lace
frock had a coatee of the same hue; and
Marion Thomson, who wore with her goblin-
blue chiffon gown a velvet jacket of orange
tinge.
St, Kilda Town Hall’s white ballroom was
decked with yellow and red for the Commer-
cial Travellers’ Association’s Ball. There
were two debs. —fair-liaired Constance
Meigliau and Kathleen Polglase. Both girls
wore frocks, of ivory taffeta daintily frilled.
W. R. Julian and his wife, she in pink taffeta
with much niching-, welcomed the official
guests, who included the president of the
C.T.A., G. A. Grant, and Mrs. Grant, and
Mayor and Mayoress Johnson, of St. Kilda.
The civic lady was the only wearer of a
cotton evening frock, her choice being pique
of a pretty shade of green. Secretary E. J.
Binney’s wife wore ruby-red velvet. Mrs.
C. E. Muir’s bottle-green lace was worn with
a chiffon velvet coatee of brighter hue.
The marriage of Jocelyn, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Purves Smith, of Melbourne, to
Lieutenant Hugh Forbes Robertson-Aikman,
R.N.. took place at St. Paul’s, Knightsbridge,
London. The bride was attired in white tulle,
her tulle veil being anchored to a coronet of
pearls. There were no bridesmaids, but the
bridegroom’s nephew was page in a white
shirt and pale green trousers. Mr. and Mrs.
Purves Smith gave a party afterwards at 42
Lowndes-square which was attended by many
Melbourne folk now living in or visiting
London. Lord and Lady Somers were guests.
At the knot-tying of Kathleen, younger
daughter of Under-Treasurer H. A. Pitt and
his wife, and journalist Brian Fitzpatrick,
which took place at St. Pat.’s Cathedral, the
bride wore a pale grey wool georgette frock,
fashioned with a little cape, and a straw
sailor hat to match. After-rejoicings were
staged at the Lyceum Club.
At St. Pat.’s Cathedral Elizabeth Marren,
one c-f our society scribes married A. A. Cal-
well, a past president of the Vic. Labor
party and an officer in the State Treasury.
The bride’s biscuit-colored georgette and
lace frock was topped with matching mil-
linery.
Sponsored by Mrs. Frank Mitchell, of Mal-
vern, there will be a performance at St.
George’s Hall, Malvern, on the 21st of a
new playlet by Isabel Handley, a “Faust”
burlesque by Gwen Hughes, fancy dances
by pupils of Eunice Weston, and vocal and
instrumental items by leading amateurs.
Proceeds will go to the Missions to Seamen.
Maisie and Beryl Cowper, daughters of
the Chris
Cowper couple
of Toorak, are
well known
for the enter-
tainments they
have organised
fo r charity.
Both are re-
inark a b 1 y
clever dancers
and adepts at
devising some
clever original
turn. In the
revue “Incred-
ible Happen-
ings,” they
were the mov-
ing spirits, and
they worked up
thes h o w
“What Next?
for the Chii
dr c li’ s an n
Aomen’s Hospital, staged at the Princess
Theatre. Broothorn here pictures Beryl.
A three months’ campaign to collect
£lOO,OOO for the hospitals, under the auspices
of the Lud Mayor’s Fund, was launched at.
a meeting at which short speeches were made
by Lieut.-Governor Irvine and Dr. Gengoult
Smith, with interludes of community singing
and band music. Hundreds of voluntary
collectors have been mobilised, and every
cliureh has rallied to the cause.
At a shivoo organised by the Bureau of
Social and International Affairs the bi-cen-
tenary of the birth of George Washington
was celebrated. Herbert Brookes, chairman
of the Bureau, spoke of George’s home life
and political career, and Prof. Heinze dis-
coursed about the music of colonial America.
Carrie Cairnduff sang songs by American
composers and Margaret Sutherland played
a movement of a piano sonata by Reinagle.
The 3LO string quartette was also in evi-
dence.
Arrayed in a biscuit-lined frock and a
darker toned coat that had a scarf cape
bordered with matching fur, Dr. Marie Ben-
tivoglio discoursed on the Fascist State at
the Uni., at the invitation of the Uni. Ex-
tension Board. The lady, who is on the
staff of the N.S.W. Teachers’ College, and
who is a graduate of Sydney Uni. and a
D.Phil. of Oxford, is evidently a great
admirer of II Duce and his methods, and she
had effective answers for all questions
Women members of the Music Teachers’
Association gave a little afternoon party with
music and tea at their comfy clubrooms in
Kelvin Hall as a compliment to Mrs. Ber-
nard Heinze. Madame Ethel Ashton, whose
black ensemble was topped with a deep blue
straw hat, was hostess. Mrs. Heinze wore
beige-colored wool georgette, bordered with
matching broad tail, and her felt hat was
in tune. Her mother, tin; Ilennessy lady,
Mrs. Ray Connelly, Mrs. Heinze, sen., and
her daughter Mona were among the guests.
Viva H'olgate Clarke. Olive E. Smythe and a
most promising boy violinist, Kevin Hesse,
aged about seven, furnished the instrumental
and vocal programme.
Wearing floral-blue chiffon. Prof. D. 8..
Copland’s wife poured tea at her home at
Canterbury as greeting to Mrs. W. E. Agar,
returned after a nine months’ sojourn abroad.
Wives of the professorial staff of the Uni.
and some others were hidden to join tin
circle.
On the corner of Collins and Swanston
.streets, where once stood Stewart Daw-
son’s, has risen the 11-storey Manchester
Unity building, a beige-pink structure with
an ornate tower, topped by the 7 loftiest flag-
staff in Melbourne. The ground floor has an
arcade leading from Collins-strdet to Howey
Court, the walls of which are garnished with
plaques in black and white marble and
mosaic. There is to be a tea garden on
the flat roof. There was ,a little celebration
on Thursday when the M.U.1.0.0.F. form-
ally took possession, Lud Mayor Smith pre-
siding.
English journalist Winifred Ponder, best-
known as editor of Dame Clara Butt’s auto-
biography, who has been an exile, from her
homeland for 18 years, is aboard the Ben-
digo, returning to Britain. She' has lived
most of her time in Brisbane in recent years,
with excursions to Malaya, South Africa and
the Islands.
Margaret Gilruth is hack in Melbourne,
after an absence of 18 months. On the day
of her return a son was born to her sister
Mrs. Ivon Austin —Dr. and Mrs. J. A. Gil-
ruth’s first grandson. The Ken Austins have
station lands in north-west N.S.W.
The smile here depicted belongs to Dorothy
Shiel, owner-
trainer of Pre-
cocious, winner
of the Grand
National. She
is following
in her father’s
footsteps, for
he won last
year with
Rakwool. A
country girl—
her dad has,a
pro perty at
Y e a—M is s
Shiel has rid-
den to hounds
with the
Findon Hunt
Club for four
or five sea-
sons, and has
won three of
the club’s
point-to - point
races. Precocious made his debut on such an
occasion.
Contralto Dawn Harding, who lias been
touring M.L. as understudy to Miss Gar-
diner in the Firm’s Gilbert and Sullivan Co.,
announces her engagement to Dr. Chisholm
McDowell, youngest son of Mrs. McDowell
and the late Dr. W. C. McDowell, of Auck-
land (M.L.). Dawn, who is the only daugh-
ter of the Harry Hardings, of Horsham, is
one of Melba’s protegees, and an ex-student
of the Albert-street Con.
Just returned after two years’ study in
Hurope is B. .T. Grieve, D.Sc., who will join
the staff of the Melb. Uni., of which he is
a graduate, as senior demonstrator and
assistant lecturer in botany.
The Proscenium Club’s performance of
“The Last of Mrs. Cheyney” introduced sonv
modish gowns. Irene Mitchell, in the name
role, wore a frilled white organdie frock in
the first act and her brocade gown of bur-
nished gold admirably blended with brown
and orange surroundings in Act 2.
Blue is the prevailing hue in the ' new
spring dress fabrics, running from the depth
of the darkest bruise, to the merest hint of
sky. All the old favorite shades—Lido,
cobalt, nattier, saxe, pansy, powder, French
and Air Force are lined up on the shelves
of the shops and the manufacturers seem also
to have ransacked the horticultural cata-
logues in their quest fdr something new in
blue.
Marjorie Lawrence, of Geelong, a drama-
tic soprano, who made her operatic debut
in “Tannhauser” at Monte Carlo early this,
year, has been booked to sing several roles
there during the next season and has. also
been engaged by the Paris Opera House.
She is a pupil of Madame Dinh Gilly, and,
like John Brownlee, received her first train-
ing from Ivor Boustead, of Melbourne.
Adelaide’s budget
Onr golfing visitors were overwhelmed with hospi-
tality ; and by way of return a dinner and bridge
party was given .by N.S.W. women golfers to their
Adelaide hostesses at the Hotel St. Vincent, Glenelg.
The hostesses included Mesdames Nigel Smith, Darn-
all Barton, Goodall, Rankin and Misses Hill and
Green.
Our State Exes, attended the races at Victoria Park.
The Mayor and Mayoress were also guests at the com-
mittee tea, at which chairman James Hall and his
two daughters did the honors. Lady Hore-Ruthven
wore a green and white tweed suit with a mink
stole, and a green velvet toque. Mrs. Glover chose
a black ensemble, with small black hat and a stone-
marten fur. Miss Hall was in a navy tailored coat
and a shiny navy straw hat. Furs were popular.
After twelve months in South Africa, Marjorie
Verco, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Vereo, of
Medindie, has returned’ to Adelaide.
Trinity Grammar School boys from Ivew (Vic.)
are spending a holiday in Adelaide; they gave a
capital performance of 11. F. Maltb.v’s comedy “The
Laughter of Fools” at the Walkerville Hall in aid
of Missions to Seamen. No professional female im-
personator has done better work than was shown
by p. L. McNeil, S. 11. Hartmann, K. C. O’Shann
and R. E. Potter. Mrs. F. W. Porter gave the
“ladies’’ of the company a look-over to make sure
their clothes were correct in every detail before they
took the stage.
The English-Speaking Union sandwiched its annual
report the other night between music by Mrs.
Gunning and songs by Dr. Ray Newling. Mr.
George McEvvin (president) and Mrs. Mellis Napier
received the guests.
A Most Popular Dog competition has been initiated
to raise funds for the S.P.C.A. Over 150 entries
have been received and the photographers are being
kept busy. Some of the dogs are brought into
the city in motors and make their appeal with a
collection tin.
Mrs. C. W. Hayward gave a farewell party for
her daughter, Mrs. A, Grenfell Price, who is leaving
for America with her husband.
Lassie's tag:—
It’s a far cry from Montmartre to the “Tec.”
College, Hobart, but the young folk who gave a
hop there, calling the ballroom the Salon de Refuses,
and the supper-room the Pink Rat, did their best
to create a Bohemian atmosphere. Some of the
fancy dresses were very clever. After supper the
decorative designs which adorned the walls were
auctioned.
A committee of Collegiate girls ran a dance
at the Masonic Hall. Red roses on a white wrist-
band formed the committee badges, and the school
colors, scarlet and white, figured in the decorations.
The Speck is swelling visibly over the offer made
to P. Finch, professional coach at the Royal Tennis
Club, Hobart, from the swanky Prince’s Club in
London. The offer comes at the instance of H. S.
Bastow 7 , formerly of Hobart, now of King’s College,
Cambridge, who thinks Finch could show the London
club a thing or two.
The G. H. Huxleys, Ulverstone, have had word of
their-son Leonard’s appointment as lecturer in physics’
at Leicester Uni. Dr. Huxley, who is a Ph.D. oi
Oxford,, is another of the Speck’s bright- young men
who has found more scope in the Old World than
was. offered at home. \ v. ,
Perth prattle:—
From Ceylon comes news of the engagement of
blue-eyed Cecelia, youngest daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. James Brennan, to James Thorburn Muirhead.
Cecelia, who was on a visit to the Spicy Isle, is
an old girl of Frensham. Mr. Muirhead is Scottish
and an engineer.
Norma and Mollie Brennan have returned to
King’s Park-road after several years in Sydney.
At Perth Mrs. Bonney climbed from her Gypsy
Moth very thankful to be out of the tempest. On
the journey south she encountered the worst weather of
her trip. The Queensland aviatrix was full of pep
and anxious to be off again, but repairs to her
’plane added a few days on to her stay; and then
she had to make a forced landing near the Trans,
line. The Shell Co, gave a luncheon at the Palace
in her honor.
Mrs. E. H. B. Lefroy served tea and chatter at
the Esplanade in honor of her sister, Mrs. Grubb,
who paused here for a few days on her way to
the Cold Land. Mrs. Burges, Mrs. Manning, Mrs.
Frank Davies, Mabel Mcßae, Mrs. R. T. Robinson,
and Mrs. Noel Cuthbert were among the guests.
Marcia Hodges warbled and piano solos were offered
by Flora Bunning and Nora Coalstad.
C.B.C. Old Boys had their annual frisk in cabaret
fashion at Temple Court. Among guests were Mercia
Scott in a rustle of black taffetas, Mrs. Cogan in
cream satin, Betty Hayward in moss-green moire and
Gwennie Male in black laces. Yvonne Rendu chose
a blush of dawn pink ; Dulcie Duncan w’as wrapped
in moonbeam-blue; olive-green chenille georgettes
clad Mrs. Harold Rowe; Dora Camm’s black laces
were draped over, a pinky glimmer; Lorna Dickson's
scarlet color scheme included a velvet jacket and
a lace gown; poppies blew upon Kathleen Con-
naughton’s black ninon; Jean Curlewis radiated silver
lamC; a blue-lined butterfly bow 7 was perched upon
Joan Frisk’s black satin ; Peter Smith wore mignon-
ette velvets taped with white and her friend Molly
McGrath was in blue; blush-pink sleeves and yoke
were attached to Ethel Diamond’s black velvets and
Elsie Paxton was a symphony in pale pinks.
Uncle Sam’s \.A.L. boys are enjoying themselves
hugely. Sporting clubs have put their grassy swards
at the disposal of the American boys and a number
of private homes have opened their doors to the
young visitors. A country trip has been arranged
and the Orient Co. came forward with a luncheon
on the Orama.


sdf
At
CONCESSION RATES!
to
SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days—
First-class Return .... £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva
Seven Weeks’ Tour
First-class Return .... £75
Cabin-class Return ... £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Via Wellington, N.Z.
Twenty-three Days’ Tour—
First-class Return .... £45
Cabin-class Return . . , £34
PAPEETE, TAHITI,
Via Wellington and Rarotonga—
Seven Weeks’ Tour—
First-class Return .... £55
Cabin-class Return . . . £4O
(No Exchange .)
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. 00., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne.
358
W&
£3
sdf
śdf
Now in its 91st Year
“The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
FULL .INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-7 o Paterson Street,
Launceston. i
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Kembla Buildings,,'
Margaret Street, Sydney.
I^/
ml
Lubricate f
don't qrease me! f
V
Apologies to Drijjf .
“Life of Car Is Directly Propor-
tionate to Care of Lubrication—”
(Fred Berry in Smith’s Weekly, Dec. 5, 1931)
ALEMITE
High Pressure Lubrication Sys-
tem services EVERY lubrication
point, every metal-to-metal bear-
ing surface with the special ALEMITE Lubricant designed to
give protection unknown to ordinary greasing methods.
To get more car miles'—a year or more of added service—see
that ALEMITE—the high pressure System of forced lubrication
—brings specialized ALEMITE Lubricants to the wear-surfaces
of your car. Order "ALEMITE” instead of "grease”—for
smoother, easier, more economical performance and longer
motor life. ALEMITE Service may be had at the better stations,
but if yours is not equipped as yet, a card to any of the dealers
lisjed below will bring all K-Aust. 11-32
ALEMITE CORPORATION Chicago, U.S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT-Chicago,
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager-
-554 George Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt St., Sydney MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane
ATKINS (W. A.),Ltd., 894 Hay St.,Perth CORNELL LIMITED, 122 >Pirie St„ ! Adelaide
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
sdf
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN”
takes your' fancy, write to the MANAGER,
whq will - quofe ‘ you price for the original
“So She Married the Barber”
BY HUGH McCRAE.
WHEN 1 was a boy—of seven or eight,
perhaps—my father used to read to
me a story called “The Pirate and
the Barber.”
“ ‘Send the barber here!’ said the captain.
“Young Jack went down with a beating
heart and shaking hand.
“The captain had liis shirt-collar open,
whilst Sarah was dressed to go on shore in
the newest bonnet saved from the plunder.
She gave Jack a look which he understood
well enough. Jack placed his box upon the
table, dipped in the brush, and lathered the
bull-throat of the pirate. Then he took the
razor ; and, at the first stroke, nearly severed
his head from his body.
“In an instant Jack was overboard, pur-
sued by the quartermaster”.... And so on,
until the longed-for climax, when Jack and
Sarah got married and were happy ever
after.
While my father imitated the sweep of the
razor, running hi.s finger from ear to ear, I
shrieked; so that my mother protested. She
declared it was bad for children to have such
stories told to them, and offered him Grimm’s
Fairy Tales instead; but, after reading two
of these, both my parents came to the con-
clusion that the brothers Grimm were Nur-
sery Grand-Guignolists of the maximal
degree. Barham, for his “Ingoldsby
Legends” ; Sir Walter Scott, for his “Talcs
of a Grandfather” ; even the Old Testament
chronicles, were not exempt.
Howbeit, my mother proved to have more
intuition than my father, because the horror
of the pirate narrative caused me many hys-
terical nights ; insomuch that when the time
came for" me to have my curls professionally
cut off, I said I wouldn’t go. so that I had
to be trepanned into the act —a simple
arrangement which consisted in my brother
walking all the distance, two yards ahead
of me, with “conversation” lollies in his band.
Mr. Noakes received us in his tobacco-sliop,
a kind of exterior canary-cage balanced on
the edge of an interior saloon. Waving
towards me, across the top of a glass-covered
counter, he exclaimed:
Old Noakes
Will ’ave ’is jokes.
Then he pushed up his spectacles so far as
a fine smoking-cap would allow them to go,
and proceeded to wipe out a cornel* of liis
eye. While he did this. I had leisure to
notice that his skin was bluey-grey all over,
and that the apron he wore gave him an
appearance of leglessness—as if he were sup-
ported from a tackle overhead.
Like a shark, then, hooked through the
snout, he swam about the room in perpendi-
cular positions, making the same desperate
movements, flicking his tail, and beating off
again before you could say “Jack Robinson.”
1 would ruther eat a boy
Than the nicest saveloy:
Mr. Noakes sang this couplet as a kind of
grace before meat; at the-same time lie
pushed against a contraption, which, on our
part of the shop, opened a door, and imme-
diately let ns in.
It was cold July; and on account of there
being no stove, we pressed together to keep
each other warm: indeed, the dampness
threatened to penetrate our vitals- —a situa-
tion not alleviated by the presence of a
shrouded figure; recumbent, a foot above the
floor. Over this figure appeared tin 1 barber;
and, over the barber the shadow of the barber
making doppelganger motions correspondent
with his own. ,
Meanwhile Mr. Noakes had become omin-
ously silent, so that his character for sliark-
ishness increased by noticeable designs. It
thrilled me to see how he smelled at the
anchored bag before him ; how lie oared him-
self a hundred times backwards and for-
wards, or hovered in the oiling while lie
muzzled the edge—-very gingerly—as if he
couldn’t be sure whether it contained meat
or dynamite.
And. to quicken the illusion, tidal shadows
influenced by the waxing or the waning of
a gas-jet, played a stomach-turning see-saw
with the ceiling of the room.
Then, eventually, when Mr. Noakes said
“Necks, please!” and the bag got up on to
its legs and became the postman, I wanted
to run away home. But the barber, taking
hold of my collar, whisked me into the. chair,
where I waited, miserably, for him to begin.
Boys with curls
Is nothin’ but girls:
Mr. Noakes trilled the lines in a .speculative
fashion, and, afterwards, trilled them again,
as though lie were conducting an experiment
in anaesthesia; tested by sliding his scissors
behind, or over, my .ears.
I saw myself, through a multitude of‘fly-
spots, reflected in the mirror opposite ; I saw,
also, the hairdresser—and remembered the
story of “The Pirate and-the Barber!” The
recollection so terrified me that a hoard of
conversation lollies dropped out of my hand :
simultaneously, all the hair on the left side
of my head came tumbling down ; followed
by the hair on the right side ; and, afterwards,
by the hair at the back!
I was frozen to the bone ; and, if if hadn’t
been for the warmth of the seat (contributed
by the postman’s buttocks), I might-have
died a little boy, and saved my parents in-
calculable pain. 1 ; !
Meanwhile, Mr. Noakes anointed me with
oil, trimmed off any sign of raggedness, and
brushed and combed me out of all similarity
to my former self. Finally, he,enclosed the
shorn locks in a paper-bag for my mother,
chanting as he did so:
This is your worry own ’air:
Take it ’ome to your mire,
Or your pere.
Whichever of ’(in's there.
Presently my brother' interrupted Mr.
Noakes to ask him if he could “change a
two-bob bit”; whereupon that gentleman,
having rummaged inside his till, produced a
shilling and a sixpence which lie seemed to be
putting into Kenneth’s hand, when he hesi-
tated and exclaimed “Hum! Hum!.... by
Gum!.... That’s rum!” He showed the
sixpence to each ofuis in turn; and wanted
to know whether we -
Renieinberfd a nipper
Called ’Avi'ison Kipper?
“Useter steal all the .bicycles. Shot ’is'self
at Missus Baker’s place in Tunibelgully-
road. .. . Missus Baker was ’ees ; Auntie ;
though she says she wasn't. Any’ow
’E done it in ’er cow shed:
No wonder that ’e’s nmv dead!” •
Here Mr. Noakes again, exhibited his six-
pence and said it was a “nasliunal curiosity,”
seeing that £ it -once >belonged .to the yo.ipig
highwayman who had exchanged. „it for- ad
haircut on the .night of tlie'suicide.-- • ' ■
The barber continued : ’Arrison’ was that-,
particklar erbout ’is appearance, -’e fmusta.
come to me on purpose .-to ’ give -’im>' a ’and
with ’ees postnnirton preparations. a.(,l?kn;ew
that afterwards, when • they.' to<?k s<pe ’in a.
keb—in a’ fceh; 5 mind you !—to identify, the
corp.) Well; there , was ineTord .all!' dolled
up -like' ’e was : gointer Govmintouse. v. .
you’ve no idea. . . .in the cowshedagainst
a row»of 'bicycles Face ’ii’ -’ap'svnice>v’n’
clean ; (me own neck-shave,’n i’aireparted
down.the middle) ;noo tie wiv-a nugget 'tie-
pin ;/ ’ees uncle’s coat ’n’.lpants ;op ; shoes.,
polished .a'treat, .v. ’X’ a tin uv Kajigaroo,
Shine in. one-'and 'n'- .’ees pistul in the
other?’. .. . - ,I * -
leaving arrived at this part of, story.
Mr. 'Noakes lowered his voice to conform
with elegiac propriety: ■
f. b ® At ythe eoro-aer’.s ink-ierst
The' corp was better drest
Than any pf the'! rest....
A shprt pause followed : tliep die added, with
a sigh: . ' '
• As you might'-’a guessed. - J ;
Like a puff of wind through' a ’keyhole the
sigli visited my neck ;'• so that’’,!, imagined 1-
was ’"in the cowshed, with’'Kipper,” wlio sa 1
up dead among tlie-bicycles; - - , Y
“Did he shoo.t, himself„thro.uglp liis li-h-li-
heart, or through liis >stomaeh-V” 'When,, my
brother made this inquiry, "he hoped th,ere v
wouldn’t be any answer ; lie’ asked? the' ques-
tion only to show a gentlemanly interest;
Mr. Noakes went oil: “ ’E—pu’t—tli'e—
pis-tul—to—-’ees—'ead—like this" : and. alter-
ing the intention to demonstrate on his
own person, pressed a glacial finger-tip
between my forehead, and my ear.
I tried to move away, but bis’other) hand,
twisted about-my'gu-llet. forced me -to* remain
still, so-long as lie wished. Accordingly. I
sat fast, apprehensive of the scatternient of
brains when the finger should “go off." Yet.
Fortune ruled it otherwise; for „ the Muses.•
showing themselves not unmindful, tricked
Mr. Noakes into lifting both his arms: in
the air.
Imagine AEsop's crow cheated 'of .the
cheese; and make a comparison with the
barber while lie watched me escape through
the door: the door, whose contraptions
clapped down behind me with a noise like
lids in the kitchen of Hell! See me. .flying
1 through the streets, metamorphosed into a
ricketty bird, apron-winged, with hardly a
toft on its head. Picture my mother, too
late, relenting her insistence that my hair
should come off. And. for a grand finale,
follow with your eyes Milliccnt, our maid-
servant, taking back Mr. Noakes’s property
in a basket under her arm.
Hey-day.
August has found September in the wood-
She was so beautiful asleep,
Ile feared
.To wake her, even with a kiss!
But underneath the ardor of his eyes
had to stir,, . ; ..
Wide-eyed, ash ake, \ >.*
Mute. shy and 'tremulous, and questioning.
At;'.that, the trees .; ■ -
J&hMed to each other knowingly.
, And. dragonflies - ..
And satin lilies starliglit-ealored, ‘ and
Orchids reaching slender 'lingers out
■ Like 1 pale princesses from.a lovelorn tower—
These nodded l too. .. , .m
. Asisylvan gossips: do : ;• r,
“Have you seen them?; ... .And you?
August has found-' September‘in 'the wood
'And! oh. the air is goSofli! . 1 a
. The bush is allastir with' life at last!
Listen !
The. earth
Throbs into vast rebirth!”.
August has found September in the wood.
He will not let her rise from out the grass.
Her hands are in his.hands, her, lips are his.
She cannot pass him by..,.
And.by-and-bye > ' '
She does no't ! try ! . • 1 ' v
For at a mutual, signal in their eyes
There in the orange noon. , .•••
Brown body -leaps to diody. month to month.
And in flower-perfumes wafted from the
. "south*. «' i.v
They faint, they swoon,' - :
And very soon' c e '
The* '■ moving c trees, ' the .dusty path, the
faintly-smiling (flowers
Merge -into onep • ; j . . .• /
. Dissolve fin 'nothingness.. .. ‘
The landscape drowns, is lost:
All the sweet misty greens arid tender, browns
And greys
Faint, momently within the dear,
The kindly
Haze! > •
But softly, echoed in green grass and tree.
Groundlings and birds take up the fantasy.
Life bubbling in a shrill, ecstatic spate,
Mate trilling out to little mate:
“Dearest. I want to sing
The .songs J sang last spring!
Darling. I love you, love you, love you
Most of all
To-day!
This is sweet spring’s hey-day!
Sunlight pours down. and. olithe air is
good
August lias found September in the wood !”
QUEEN ST,AND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


r- 5
r
i
l
%
r«
m
Are you feeling fit to grapple with the problems of the day?
Admittedly times are difficult, but the healthy man can face
the position with much more equanimity than the one who is
handicapped by indifferent health.
Remember the condition of the liver
largely influences one’s outlook on life.
Therefore, the first essential is to keep
the liver and other organs of digestion
in a regular condition, thus ensuring the
clear balanced vision and active brain
that are so necessary to cope with the
difficulties which are constantly arising.
Dr. Morse s Indian Root Pills enjoy an
unrivalled reputation as an everyday
remedy. They stir the liver, cleanse the
stomach and cause regular action of the
bowels in a gentle yet thorough manner.
wm
'co-
rn
When buying be sure
and get DR. MORSE'S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
which are packed in
this familiar wrapper
printed in blue.
Dr. Morse's
I
*
jy
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY AUSTRALIANS FOR AUSTRALIANS.
FIDGETY
CHILDREN
Are Often the
Victims of Worms
A child who is affected with Thread
Worms will often appear to the eve to be
in an indifferent state of health. It be-
comes peevish and irritable in its temper.
Another point to which the attention of
mothers' should be specially directed is
that the child is apt to start in its sleep,
its repose being in the way of a disturbed
nature.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
are suffering intense pain and distress, and
are practically irresponsible for the out-
bursts of temper, restlessness and peevish-
ness, and until some more serious symptoms
appear nothing is done to alleviate the dis-
tress. The symptoms of this disease are
somewhat variable, but generally they are
so characteristic that no mother need have
any doubt. The best proof of worms is
worms, and if the general conduct of the
child is such as to give the slightest sus-
picion, a careful watch will give ample
proof.
Worms, by their movement and the in-
terruption they offer to the contents of the
bowels,, generally occasion pain or uneasi-
ness in the abdomen, sometimes spasmodic,
sometimes gnawing and biting, and not
infrequently of a vague, indescribable
character, and yet very distressing. Sym-
pathetic with this is a sensation of itching
at the nostrils, producing a disposition to
pick the nose, which is characteristic of the
affection. The bowels are often disordered,
ometimcs relaxed, as in dysentery. The
appetite is exceedingly variable; in some
cases natural, in others deficient,, craving
or depraved, one condition not infrequently
alternating with another. The abdomen
is often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or foetid," and tongue furred,
with disagreeable taste, and a copious flow
of saliva; swelling of the upper lip, bleed-
ing of the nostrils, and disposition to grind
the teeth during sleep are other character-
istic symptoms. The effects, however, often
extend beyond the alimentary canal, and
various derangements of health are experi-
enced in consequence either of the direct
irritation of the worms or of ' disordered
digestion which they occasion. Among the
most common of these are nervous affec-
tions, such as fretfulness, irritation of
temper, wakefulness, or disposition to ex-
cessive sleep, disturbed sleep, sudden start-
ing out of sleep as if from fright, dizziness,
spasmodic movements of the eyelids, tem-
porary blindness and deafness. General
convulsions are not infrequently in children,
and symptoms strongly representing “Water
on the Brain” have been ascribed to worms,
and have ceased on their expulsion.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal prepara-
tion compounded on a scientific principle
for the eradication of worms which infest
the intestines. They contain specific proper-
ties which destroy the worms but cause
no injury to the stomach or bowels, and
do not weaken the system. The pellets
are prepared in the form of a confection,
or lolly, have no disagreeable taste or
smell, but, on the contrary, inspire children
to take them as they would an ordinary
sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney.
Price 4/- per packet (six packets 23/-),
post free.
If writing, please mention The Bulletin.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
s?j&uCLetCa.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, GILO., Sydney
Please forward Thu Bulletin, for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which I enclose £ ; .........
NAME .
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/.; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
*
vf
,1 S® e e
#1 9
rtA U'C ifiC^’
oC-
-0 v :.«v> h*
*& Btf>Vf
#•'
, v «*:
o<


ACTUAL PHOTO-MICROGRAPH OF NERVE CELLS, MAGNIFIED 300 TIMES
•HtT s
fcl
II; *ij:
i;;
• I,.::: II Ifell
a#-•*&#»•
11
FfHjErHHf**'
Mii
iiffij
ill Hi
::
ir
r,
Sas*
Cf-
H
x
•:• ..
:sr.*:
S??T :
llllilrl
Such letters are written by people
who have felt the wonderful
effects of Sanatogen on their own
health. Your nerves may not be
in such a bad state —but that is
all the more reason to be confident
that Sanatogen will give you back
strength and health and vitality.
Why not start taking Sanatogen
to-day? It must do you good
and because it is a nerve-food, it
cannot possibly do you any harm.
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic-Food
Obtainable at all Chemists.
Made by
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.
like giving me
little bit of heaven”
When you feel off-colour or suffer from sleep-
lessness, weakness, irritability, a tired feeling or any
of those common symptoms of weak nerves, why
not give Sanatogen a trial ?
So many people have found that their decision —
“I will try Sanatogen ’ —has been the turning point
in their health.
At first many of them doubted the value of
Sanatoger, They had suffered for so many years
and had tried so many medicines and tonics in vain.
But the facts convinced them that Sanatogen really
does what it promises to do: it gives new energy,
new vitality, and a feeling of youthful health.
Just read this letter from a Saitatagen user:
“ I should have written before now,
but I have been enjoying the new
life Sanatogen has given. I am 31
years old and I feel like 21 years, so
that alone will tell you what Sanatogen
has done for me. I have suffered seven
years from neurasthenia and often
have I felt like going mad. I had it so
bad I thought I would never get better.
I tried everything, until one day a
friend recommended Sanatogen. It
was like giving me a little bit of
heaven. I felt so different, full of life
and energy already after taking a few
doses. I should like the world to know
what Sanatogen has done for me.”
Mrs. L. Me. I.
