

e
EVERYDAY
PROMISES
WillaitJ
HELPS YOU
TO KEEP
mm
a
M
f txr&( tAeM
on
Lt
99
Six . . . eight... a dozen times a day you make promises
which only a car that will start instantly . . . unfailingly
.. . enables you to keep. You make such promises
because there’s a Willard battery in your car ... so
dependable that you can assume quick, certain starting
as a matter of course . . . atad act accordingly.
More car owners buy Willards than any other make.
That’s because, pound for pound, Willard gives them
more. That’s because Willard’s promises to them of
service and satisfaction are kept. . . faithfully.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Motor Supplies, Limited,
Brisbane.
Westcott Hazell & Co., Limited,
Sydney.
Brooklands Accessories Pty., Limited,
Melbourne.
Automobile Electric Service, Limited,
Adelaide.
Atkins (W.A ), Limited,
Perth.
è
STORAGE
BATTERIES
é
WILLARD DEPENDABILITY IS A BUILT-IN QUALITY
The Bulletin
ffihaJ' Will so *? 8
Vol. 53.—N0. 2724.
Wednesday, April 27, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


o uR
TR Library Catalogue will be forwarded,
with full terms and particulars post
free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
tioohlet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bclletix.
My Name
Mn Address
S.B. 132
//
0
How Disfiguring!
Pimples and blotches will mar the
beauty of any complexion, no matter
how lovely it may he otherwise. They
are so unnecessary, too, when regular
daily use of Cutleura Soap,
assisted by Cuticura Ointment,
will keep the skin clear and healthy.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free. A ddress:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE ACE"
Established 1854..
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of cave
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
know. Appeal to them through “THE AGE, ’
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 77 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 117,000 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
publishes over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street..
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Dominion
NATIONAL (Morning) DAILY
The one Metropolitan Daily which
does evenly and intensively broadcast
merchandising messages throughout
the Wellington Province (highest
in spending power). Its circulation
embraces a series of main centres of
population as well as penetrating a
vast area of richly-endowed rural dis-
tricts. The time is now opportune for
“Sowing the Seeds of Better Business.”
INQUIRIES WELCOMED.
IH Dominion
‘THE DOMINION” BUILDING,
Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Economists Agree
THAT THE SOUNDEST
STATE IS
Queensland
EVERYONE AGREES THAT
THE BRISBANE
"TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph” is re-
nowned for its vigorous influence, its
freedom from vulgarity and stupid
sensationalism, and its high percent-
age of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph” carries
more classified advertisements than
any other Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers must agree
that as an economic force in the
Queensland market
The “Telegraph”
leads the way
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Every where—-.all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Svdney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
?. • Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British" Australian anil
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W C. 2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency. Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
EXAMINER,
LAUNCESTON.
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
NOW
IN ITS
91st YEAR.
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, ad.
rates of “The Examiner“ Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Express” obtainable from
\V. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
Ketnbla Buildings,
Margaret Street, Sydney.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Sarah and Christopher
The first Duchess of Marlborough was
the greatest woman of her day, and Sir
Christopher Wren was one of the greatest
men. They were contemporaries, though
Wren was born shortly after Charles I.
began ruling without a Parliament, and
the future duchess on the day of Charles
ll.’s restoration. Both started under the
handicap of comparative obscurity, made
up their minds to win fame, and succeeded;
and both lived virtuously in a profligate
age. For different reasons both died out
of favor with the powers that had helped
to make them. They were not friends,
though about the Court at the same time;
but Wren thought her a “better man than
the Duke.” and she thought him “ten times
more able” than his rival, Sir John Van-
brugh, who built Blenheim.
“Old Sarah”
That was what they began to call her
after the Duke’s death in 1722. But she
had always been old—old, managing and
hard. It was the keynote of her nature.
Sarah Jennings first met John Churchill
when she was 15 and he was 25. He fell
in love at sight, and was faithful-to her, so
far as is known, till he died. Their families
were poor, and opposed to the engagement,
so they were married secretly. But not
till three years after their meeting. To
quote from Frank Chancellor’s Sarah
Churchill (Philip Allan; 12s. 6d.): —
Sarah had another reason (beside the suspicion
that the rakish young- soldier wanted to seduce her)
for keeping her fiancC at a distance. She liked to
rule. It gratified her to receive his letters couched
in humble terms, and to see “le bel Anglais” on
his knees.
She kept him on his knees for the rest of
his life. It was an era when wives lived
in subjection. It is related of Sarah’s
admirer, the Duke of Somerset, that when
his second wife playfully tapped his
shoulder he sternly discouraged the famili-
arity in the matchless phrase: “My first
wife was a Percy, and she never took such
a liberty!” Yet when Marlborough was
the most illustrious soldier in the world,
Sarah domineered over him like the hen-
pecking wife of farcical comedy, and he
knuckled down in a manner which seems
masochistic even in this age of masculine
females. It was not his weakness, but
her strength. She dominated everybody,
and most of all Queen Anne. The creation
of the Churchill family from nothing (Sir
Winston, John’s father, was a poor country
squire) was a partnership affair. He pro-
vided the causes, she secured the effects.
She was virtually Queen of England. Her
arrogance was chiefly to blame for her
downfall —even such a worm as Anne was
bound to turn against it in time —
but a mistake regarding the character of
one of her numerous poor relations
hastened the end. She brought a kins-
woman to Court who was poor, gauche, no
longer young, arid afflicted with a red nose.
Abigail Hill seems to have begun intriguing
against her benefactor almost at once.
What followed reads like one of those
romances in which the old love is slowly,
inevitably, ousted by the new. The break
came in 1710. Anne refused to see the
Duchess, who thereupon practically forced
her way in, and told her old friend some
truths about herself which effectively
ended their association; they never spoke
to each other again. After the Duke’s
death Sarah devoted herself to making
money, in the intervals of telling her many
enemies what she thought of them, in
writing and by word of mouth. She died
at 85, a millionaire. The list of estates
which she acquired, from Sussex to Staf-
fordshire in the north, and to Wiltshire
in the west, covers more than a page of
Mr. Chancellor’s interesting biography.
She said many good things, the best of
which was' perhaps her reply to the pro-
posal of the pompous Duke of Somerset
already mentioned: “Not if he were
Emperor of the World would she periftit,
him to succeed to that, heart which had
been devoted to John, Duke of Marl-
borough.” It reveals her—her pride, her
capacity for insult, her sexlessness and her
loyalty to the only man she ever cared
for—in a phrase.
Prince oj Architects
Wren was 34 when, fortunately for plague-
infested London and himself, a fire broke
out one Saturday night in Pudding-lane.
London Bridge went next day. “By
Monday morning,” says C. Whitaker*
Wilson in Sir
C hristopher Wren
—His Life and
Times (Methuen;
12s. 6d.), “the
flames had a solid
front of half a
mile, travelling up Graoechurch-street, across
Eastcheap, along Cannon-street, causing
greater destruction than the previous day.”
About eight o’clock on Tuesday night flames
burst from the top of Old St. Paul’s, and
by Friday it was in ruins, together with
five-sixths of the city, comprising 13,000
houses and the churches of 84 parishes.
The hour produced the men, as usual—Van-
brugh, Grinling Gibbons, Inigo Jones and,
above all, Wren. Wren had watched the
fire with Charles 11., and, while it was
still smouldering, he presented his plan for
a new London. It was rejected as too
expensive. “We are the losers,” remarks
his biographer. “If he had had his way
London would be a city of open spaces
instead of being one of irregular, narrow
and crooked streets; it would have been
the chief of any seven wonders of the
modem world.” Surveyor-General Denham
providentially retired about this time, and
Wren succeeded him. He got his com-
mission to build St. Paul’s seven years
later. He was no doubt inspired by the
domes of the Sorbonne and Val-de-Grace.
which he had seen while in France during
the Great Plague. Paris to him was “a
school of architecture, the best, probably,
at this day in Europe,” and the eyes of
Paris were fixed on St. Peter’s at Rome.
Gothic was definitely out of favor. How-
ever:—
Wren actually copied little enough of what he
saw in France ; he was too inventive to copy. He
contented himself by allowing- his impressions to
sink in; he then set about spinning like a spider.
He extracted all that appealed to him as being
beautiful and right architecturally and, having made
his decisions, expressed himself as soon as an oppor-
tunity came his way.
St. Paul’s has its critics—Pugin said that
one-half of it had been built to hide the
other half—but it remains the true Eng-
lishman’s greatest pride. In any event.
Wren’s fame would have been as great and
enduring if it had rested on his city churches
alone. Most observers get most pleasure
from St. Clemenee Danes, which sits down
in the Strand as solidly and gracefully as
a swan on a river, but all the churches
are lovely. He had his reasons, economy
apart, for making them small. “The
Romanists,” he said, “may build larger
churches. It is enough if they hear the
murmur of the mass and see the Eleva-
tion of the Host; but ours are to be fitted
for auditories.” St. Paul’s cost about
£1.000.000. arid the others a little over a
quarter of a million between them. Wren
only made £13,000 out of the city churches,
and £7OOO over a period of 35 years out of
St. Paul’s, or rather less than the present
Australian basic wage. Mr. Whitaker-
Wilson points out that, after Parliament
unjustly censured him in 1696, he con-
tinued for 14 years to build St. Paul’s at £2
a week! At 78 he was still being dragged
up to the dome in the basket, which may
be seen in the Cathedral to this day. He
died in his sleep at the. age of 91. If the
artist’s chief province is to give * delight,
then it may be claimed for this great man
that he has proved the most satisfying ®f
them all. No Englishman has given so
much pleasure to so many of his country-
men. Wren’s life, apart from his work,
was uneventful; he was a gentle, saintly
man with many friends and no enemies.
His latest biography contains 32 excellent
illustrations, a classified list of his works
and a comprehensive index.
RAD PAGE.
The Devitalised Tenth
Warren Denning’s recent claim that the
pessimism of Australian authors is due to
the backwash of the convict days does not
impress me. This characteristic of Aus-
tralian writing is characteristic of the
present-day literature of all countries, in-
cluding those without birthstains. It is
the pessimism induced by hopelessness
emanating from the failure of the indus-
trial era to produce happiness. There is
little laughter in the world’s literature to-
day because there are few life-lovers. Life
isn’t loved because it doesn’t seem to have
any significance. It is in the grip of the
machine, and apparently helpless.
Nobody has felt the domination of the
machine more poignantly than D. H. Law-
rence, and he gave his horror the fullest
expression in probably his greatest work,
“Lady Chatterley’s Lover.” The book is,
of course, banned by the censors of the
Australian Customs. It is too obviously
not machine-made. It takes too much pride
in the mere human body. It endeavors to
do for the art of the novel what the Greeks
and Rodin did for the art of sculpture. It
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.”—The Highest Ideal.
THE SENIOR STORE”
SUBSTANTIAL REDUCTIONS
mu,
$
5^
CX3
STS
in GUNS, RIFLES
AND Ammunition
Single-barrelled
Guns
Reduced
è
52/6
57/6
67/6
Harrington and Rich-
ardson, 1 2-g a u g e,
Single-barrelled Gun,
top lever, automatic
ejector, full choke.
Weight about 61b.
30in. or 32in. Price,
62/6. Sale . . 52/6
Harrington and Rich-
ardson, 4 1 0-g aug e,
Single-barrelled Gun,
top lever, automatic
ejector, full choke.
Weight about 41b.
Price 62/6
Sale 57/6
Harrington and Richardson Auto-
matic Ejecting “Heavy-breech”
Single-barrel Gun, 32in. Finely-
bored special steel barrel, full
choke. Reinforced breech. A
good, heavy, well-balanced gun,
suitable for trap-shooting. Half-
pistol grip stock. Weight about
7slb. Price, 75/-. Sale, 67/6
Anthony Horderns'
RIFLES
by Browning and Winchester
ii
A
Hi
SB
3 SSS
92/6 Browning Trombone 87/6
Browning Trambone Repeating Rifle, .22 calibre (15
short, 12 long or 11 long-rifle). Will shoot these
different cartridges mixed. 22in. barrel. Exceptionally accurate.
Weight 51b. Price, 92/6. Sale
87/6
Winchester Single Shot, 37/6
é
Winchester S.S. Rifle, model 1 902, to take
.22 short, long or long-rifle cartridges,
round barrel 18in. long. Weight about
31b. Price 37/6
82/6 Browning Auto-Rifle 80/
ê
VITAL!
3-in-1 OIL
A good shooting man never
neglects his gun, 3-in-l Oil
lubricates, cleans and polishes,
prevents rust and tarnish. In
3oz. handy cans. 2/-. Sale, 1/9
Browning Auto-loading Rifle, solid breech,
hammerless, will first rimfire .22 calibre
long-rifle smokeless cartridges. 20in. round
barrel. Weight Magazine holds 8
cartridges. Price, 82/6. Sale .....’ 80/-
As above, for .22 short magazine, holds 1 I
cartridges. Price, 82/6. Sale 80/-
by reliable makers
ë
ē
Webley & Scott 5.8.8. L. Semi-hammerless Ejector
Gun, 30in. special steel barrel, choke bored, top
lever action, nitro proved, walnut stock, half-pistol
grip, splendidly balanced. English made through-
out. Weight about 61b. Price £6/157-
Sale £6/5/6
Webley-Scott’s D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun, 30in.
special steel barrels, chambered 2Jin., flat engine-
turned raised rib, box lock action, top lever, treble
bite, cross-bolt, selected walnut half-pistol hand
stock, neat scroll and border engraving, nitro
proved; made expressly to suit Australia and New
Zealand; weight I2G. Price, £2O. Sale, £l5
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.
SYDNEY.
’Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
ĕ


A Strong, Highly-Industrialised Australia
can play its part as a Nation in the
British Commonwealth of Nations
A WEAK AUSTRALIA IS A
DANGER TO THE EMPIRE
The Policy of the Chamber of Manufactures
of New South Wales is:
1. To assist in the financial rehabilitation of the Common-
wealth.
2. To combat communism, socialism, corruption and dis-
honesty in public life, and to redeem the reputation of
this State.
3. To encourage private enterprise and eliminate unnecessary
Government interference with industry.
4. To secure uniformity of industrial conditions throughout
the Commonwealth.
5. To develop Australian industries to the fullest extent, and
so provide employment for Australian people, and to
create diversity of occupation and opportunity for the
growing generation.
6. To bring about economy in the costs of government, with
consequent lowered costs of production, transport and
distribution, so that goods may be sold at prices that the
people of Australia in their reduced circumstances can
afford, and so that Australia may obtain its share in
the export trade of the World in manufactured com-
modities.
The Revival and Expansion of our Manufacturing
Industries will go far to solve our Unemployment
Problem.
WE ASK THE AUSTRALIAN PEOPLE TO DO THEIR PART
SUPPORT AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRIES
AND THEY WILL SUPPORT YOU


BOOKS
difficult to obtain elsewhere
POST FREE
PRACTICAL BIRTH CONTROL, by Hornibrook, 5/-
Married Love, by Dr. Marie Slopes, 3/3; Wise Parenthood, by Dr. Marie Stopes, 4/10; Sex at
Choice, by Mrs. Monteith Erskine, 11/5 ; The Science of a New Life, by Cowan, 7/10 ; Enduring
Passion, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Contraception—Birth Control, Its Theory, History and Practice,
by Marie Carmichael Stopes, 22/4; Radiant Motherhood, by Marie Stopes, 7/10; Sex and the
Young, by Marie Stopes, 4/10; The New Toxology—The Science of Sex and Life, 8/-; The Sex
Factor in Marriage, by Helena Wright, 5/9; Sex Knowledge, by N. March, 1/8; Love and
Marriage, by Scott Hall, 13/3 ; Exercises for Women, by Hornibrook, 5/4 ; Secrets of Successful
Marriage, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/4 ; Realities of Marriage, by Dr, G. Courtenay Beale,
10/4; Youth and Maidenhood, by W. M. Gallichan, 4/6; The Perfect Wife, by Dr. G.
Courtenay Beale, 1/11; The Happy Lover, bv Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 1/11; Eugenics and Birth
Control, by J. Rutgers, M.D., 15/6; Pitfalls of Marriage, by W. M. Gallichan, 6/3; Wise
Wedlock, by Dr. G. Courtenay Beale, 10/3; Medical Views on Birth Control, 6/4; Canary
Breeding for Beginners, 2/9; Physical Culture Simplified—A Complete Course of Physical
Culture, 6/3; Better Sight Without Glasses, by 11. Benjamin, 6/4; The Culture of the
Abdomen, by Hornibrook, 7/10; Sex Problems and Their Solution, by Haydn Brown, 5/5;
NOW READY.
THE DESERT COLUMN.
FLYNN OF THE INLAND.
Two Outstanding Books by lON IDRIESS.
PRICE 6/-, Postage 4d.
Sexual Science, by Dr. A. A. Phillip, 4/6; Knowledge a Young Husband Should Have, toy
Phillip, 4/6; Knowledge a Young Man Should Have, by Phillip, 4/6; Knowledge a Young
Woman Should Have, by Phillip, 4/6; The Book of Nature, 3/9; Contract Bridge, by Ely
Cuthbertson, 8/6; Contract Bridge in Twenty Minutes, 1/11; How to Become an Effective Public
Speaker, 2/2 ; Mayes’ Australian Builder’s Price Book, 15/6 : Menus Made Easy, by Nancy Lake.
5/4 ; Cocktails and How to Mix Them, 3/11; Aust. Nuts arid Nut Growing in Aust., by Rumsey,
2/4 ; Foulsham’s Letter Writer, 3/4 ; Chambers’s Twentieth-century Dictionary, 13/4 ; Cards for
Three, by Basil Dalton, M.A., 3/1; Official Rules of Card Games (“Hoyle' Up to Date”), 2/8;
Popular Card Games and How to Play and Win, by F. Ings, 1/5; The Book of Luck, by 11. G.
Souter, 1/5; Foulsham’s Best Short Prose Recitations, 3/4; House’s Canary Manual, 2/9; Table
Rapping, 2/6; 12 Best Indoor Games‘lor Two, by A. Belasco, 1/6; Ward Lock’s Letter Writer
for Ladies and Gentlemen, 4/1; The Bulletin Reciter, 2/2; The Companion Letter Writer, 2/8;
How to Read the Hand, by Karma, 4/-; Practical Carpentry for Amateurs, 1/11; Plumbing,
Soldering and Brazing for Amateurs, 1/11: Furniture Repairing for Amateurs, 1/11; Upholstery
for Amateurs, 1/11; What to Do at Weddings, 1/5; Cassell’s Concise English Dictionary, 3/2;
Painting, Ironwork, Steel and Metal, by W. L. Savage, 1/6; Every Man His Own Mechanic, 9/-;
Home Carpentry, by John Barnard, 4/1 ; Aust. Book of Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 3/-;
Boot and Shoe Repairing, 1/11; Clock and Watch Repairing, 1/11 ; Double-bed Dialogues, 1/2 ;
Modern Lacquer Finishing, by F. A. Rose, 3/9; Henley’s 20th Century Recipes, 26/-; Napoleon’s
Book of Fate, 3/4; Zadkeil’s Dream Book and Fortune Teller, 3/4; Chciro Guide to the Hand,
4/1; The Angora Rabbit Book for Australia, 2/3; Universal Trade Reckoner, 4/3; Bulletin
Book of Humorous Verse (Bulletin Reciter No. 2), 1/2; Prospecting for Gold (Australian), by-
lon Idriess, 5/3; Novelty Evenings (all kinds of games), 2/9; A to V, of Australian Fruit-
growing, by Rumsey, 2/2; Fortune Telling by Tea-leaves, 2/-; Diesel Engine, by Jones —
Special Price —15/-; Crystal Gazing and Clairvoyance, 5/3; 1001 Riddles, New and Old, 2/2;
Lee’s Guide to the Game of Draughts, 4/6; Chess Lessons for Beginners, 2/6; Chess and
Draughts, by Belasco, 1/5; How to Repair and Restring Tennis Racquets, 3/-; Motor Repair
Manual, 4/7; Motor Electrical Manual, 4/7; Guide for the Chairman and Secretary, 3/2; The
Modern Letter Writer, 2/9; Hypnotism Simplified, by Martin, 1/11; Hand-reading Made Easy,
by Noel Jaquin, 4/6; Parenthood- —a Manual of Birth Control, by Fielding, 4/-; Love and
Marriage, by Winifred Scott Hall, 13/-; Sex Knowledge—-with special chapter on birth control,
1/8; The Why and How of Birth Control, by Dr. Adamson, 4/7; How to Mesmerise, by Janet
Coates, 3/3; The Mastery of Sex, by L. D. Weatherhead —a vital book, 5/5.
WRITE FOR LISTS
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Booksellers, Librarians, Tobacconists, Stationers, Newsagents, Kodak Suppliers,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
attempts to bring up into the consciousness
realisation of all the functions of man, not
merely those which make him industrially
useful. It is the fig-leaf that is indecent, not
what it conceals, says Lawrence. But the
book just misses being great art and falls
into propaganda because Lawrence shares
the popular pessimism with regard to the
machine. We can’.t master the machine, so
let us destroy it.
“If the men wore scarlet trousers they
wouldn’t think so much of money; if they
could dance and skip and hop and sing and
swagger and be handsome, they could do
with very little cash and amuse the women
themselves, and be amused by the women.
They ought to learn to be naked and hand-
some, and to sing in a mass and dance the
old group dances, and carve the stools they
sit on and embroider their own emblems.
They wouldn’t need money. And that’s the
only way to solve the industrial problem:
train the people to be able to live in hand-
someness without needing to spend. But
you can’t do it. They’re all one-track
minds nowadays.”
Part of which sounds very like sentimen-
tality, because even Lawrence couldn’t have
thought he was worse off composing “Lady
Cliatterley’s Lover” on a typewriter than
inscribing it on reindeer bone. Lawrence
found the machines ol industry convention-
ally ugly because they don’t serve Life,
and nobody seems to know how to make
them serve Life and produce leisure under
our present economic systems, including
America’s and Soviet Russia’s. When the
machines are made to serve Life the artists,
poets and writers will find them just as
beautiful as a rural landscape.
M.G.S.
English and Australian Reviewers
I agree with “F.S.” (R.P. 20/4/’32) that
English reviewers are not prejudiced against
Australian writers as such. But when he
implies that they resemble ours in methods,
mentality or anything else, I join issue with
him.
I have had three books published in Lon-
don. They were novels about Australians
in Sydney, England and elsewhere. The
press cuttings satisfied me of two things:
(1) Most English reviewers are critical,
but they are quick to see what a writer is
getting at; (2) most of ours are friendly,
but they lack either (a) the time or inclina-
tion to read all the books they handle, or
(b) the capacity to understand them. My
last book was about an Australian who
made a fortune, sent his children to expen-
sive English schools, and found, when they
grew up, that they didn’t want to live in
Australia. By that time he had got over
his craze for England, and was sorry he
hadn’t educated his youngsters here. It is
happening constantly in every Australian
capital, and it explains why half, and often
more than half, the members of many
rich Australian families live on the other
side of the world. “F.S.” wrote a kindly
review of the book, but concluded that my
hero had “only learnt to wear a white tie
with tails, and a black tie with dinner-
coat.” “Is it a very interesting achieve-
ment, after all?” he asked. The whole
point of the story—and the “Times” and
other papers stressed it approvingly—was
that the old man had learned a diametri-
cally opposite lesson; that Englishisms
which had seemed all-important to him in
his youth were immaterial; that nothing
mattered but life with his family in the
only country he knew and loved. A poor
idea, perhaps, but anyhow my own, which
the one “F.S.” credited me with was not.
A previous novel dealt with an elderly
business man who made a fool of himself
with a girl. She fell in love later with a
man of her own age who turned her down,
and, being a weakling, she became a drug-
addict. She was killed eventually by a
Sadist. An “Age” reviewer said the book
had “no hold on the reader who believes
that the art of fiction is to portray life”:—
It is impossible for a man of 50 to discard his
years, and his experience of life, and fall in love
like a youth in his twenties.
That reviewer is either too young to know
how some men in the fifties, who have never
kicked over the traces, react to an infatua-
tion, or so old that he has forgotten. Eng-
lish critics objected to the book chiefly on
the ground that the main theme had been
handled better by others. I knew this when
I was writing the book, but felt that the
unusualness of the environment, and par-
ticularly the fact that the elderly lover was
shown suffering the pangs of what might
be called long-distance jealousy (the girl
was in England while he had to stay here),
presented some new aspects of a familiar
situation.
A review of the same book in the “Prince
Alfred Hospital Gazette” is the gem of
my collection. It represents illiterate sloppi-
ness raised to the nth degree. The critic,
after complaining fretfully that it was “not
a particularly nice story,” proceeded:—
The heroine had taken to cocaine, or something.
Ultimately she was killed in a sordid way by a
maniac who had lived in a sort of hidden cellar
beneath her house, and had stabbed her to death.
One rather wonders what this story was written for.
The heroine didn’t take “cocaine, or some-
thing”; she took cocaine. I said so, and
described the symptoms, and the attempts
that were made to cure her, in detail, having
got the necessary information from a Mac-
quarie-street specialist. The murderer didn’t
live in “a sort of hidden cellar”; he lived
at the other end of the town. He wasn’t
a maniac, but a mild clerk, who showed no
more traces of mania than the courtly mar-
quis whom Napoleon drove from Paris with
gestures of abhorrence.
You never see fatuities such as I have
quoted in an English review, and for a very
good reason. When the editor of a big
English paper wants a novel reviewed he
sends it to a leading just as, when a
local editor wants cricket reviewed, he em-.
ploys someone like Mailey. Modem English
editors take literature every bit as seri-
ously as ours do sport. Arnold Bennett’s
page was a feature of the London “Even-
ing Standard” for years. Robert Lynd has
made the literary section of the “News-
Chronicle” world-famous. Hugh Walpole,
Gerald Bullett, Rose Macaulay, Sheila
Kaye-Smith, Frank Swinnerton and dozens
more review novels regularly; poets review
poetry; philosophers, books on philosophy
and so on. I have only heard of two front-
rank novelists on Australian dailies in recent
times—Erie Cox, the brilliant literary editor
of the “Argus,” and Roy Bridges, who did
good work on the Melbourne “Herald” for
a while. The average Australian paper
tosses its novel-reviewing, not to artists
and thinkers like Vance Palmer, Katharine
Prichard or the ladies who collaborated in
“The House Is Built,” but to some slick
journalist who has never written a novel or
tried to write one, knows nothing of the
novel-writer’s problems, and takes so little
interest in the business that he rarely
troubles to read right through the books on
which he pontificates. English reviewers
of the type I have mentioned are different.
Thej’ not only tell readers what to read
or avoid, but do invaluable work in the
way of showing inexperienced author's their
technical errors. So far as goodwill towards
authors is concerned there is probably
little or nothing to choose between them
and our reviewers.
J.D.
A Satchel of Books
Infamous Fame (Ward, Lock; 7s. (id.), E.
Charles Vivian’s latest novel, is based on an
episode in the career of Lieut.-Gencral Sir
Howard Burne. The General got his D.S.O.
for trying to rescue some beleaguered com-
rades ; the truth was he had bolted to save
his own skin and left them to die. A sur-
vivor returns after 20 years and the fat, as
the saying goes, is in the fire. Our sym-
pathies are not with the unworthy brass-hat,
but with his charming daughter Stella, and
things turn out all right for her.
Elissa Landi is not only a good actress
but a remarkably clever writer. Her House
for Sale (Chatto and Windus; 7s. 6d.) has
as its chief character an elderly widow who
is breaking up her home. She describes the
life she has led in the house, discusses her
late husband, the children who have grown
up and their friends and hers, and by this
method gives the reader an insight into the.
life of an interesting family. The young
people are bright and attractive, but super-
ficial ; they have been done before. But
Elsa, the mother, is a really good bit of
work. Miss Landi knows her like a book.
The Steel Square in Australian Roofing,
by Alex. Smith (Robertson and Mullens;
Is.). The Bulletin’s excuse for reviewing
this book is that, according to the publishers,
it is the only book ever printed on the sub-
ject. Not being an expert on steel squares,
the writer is inclined to take the book as
read. It looks a handy manual for the man
who wants to know more of the job of put-
ting lids on houses than he learns by rule
of thumb.
And a Little Verse
ARAMINTA'S HAIR.
A long, loose wave of dappled gold and
brown,
To all the winds, is Araminta’s hair;
Bong lights and shifting shadows playing
there,
A halo and again a royal crown.
I sometimes think God’s benison came down
And rested, ever radiantly fair,
Made manifest, so Grief, with brows afrown,
Might pass her by, and Time’s white
fingers spare.
It holds the wealth of autumn’s amber
days,
The laughter of brown waters as they run
Through moss and silken grasses in the sun.
And so, though summer pass and Woods
be bared,
Where Araminta lingers, ardent-haired,
For me there is no barren winter ways.
N.S.W,
N. A. EVANS.
COMFORT AND FRIENDS.
Comfort is mine, and friends everywhere to
greet me:
Success has come to me like the sea to the
moon’s wooing;
But the ghost of my youth leaps from the
past to meet me, v
And all the time he whispers, reproach-
fully pursuing,
“All my splendid, splendid dreams, where
is their fulfilment?”
“Why have you halted,” he cries, “so
far away from their so lovely ends?
Bewitched is it you are by some ear-filling
. distilment
Of those neverhnust-be-wounded enemies
of mine—your friends?
Or is it comfort —that all-so-soothing seducer
Has watered the fires that so fiercely
burnt you towards my dreams?
You, the one-time enemy of every ideal’s
traducer!
You, the one-time magnificent fighter
against all devil’s schemes!”
“Poor you—once of every lost cause a
valiant defender!
Poor you—once a knightly warrior for
the unpopular truth!
‘Hoist the white flag high on the housetop
—we surrender;
Friends and comfort have won.’ ” mocks
the ghost of my youth.
VICTORIA.
ALAN D. MICKLE.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted:
and no MS. ivill be returned unless stamps accompany.
L.F.G.: Even the death of a great race-
horse hasn’t turned you into a poet.... Pegasus: If
that was our steed we’d send him tc the Zoo. .. .
F. 8.; Bridge poems are off, and “your humble effort
to draw attention to the pernicious and lowering
books with which our public libraries are being
flooded” would go better in prose... .W.H.R.: Feeble
trivialities... .V.S.J.: Nothing apt in “Ugh” except
the title... .Tara Hall: About as humorous as three-
penn’orth of cat’s-meat... .Worlta: A rather pleasant
conceit, but hardly in our line... . J.L.J.: Worthless.
. ...J.S.W.: Fair verse, but a poor peg to hang it
0n....R0d Rick: “The White Girl’s Burden” fell
heavily info the basket... .H.8.M.: Too much desert
and not enough oasis... .Timi: “Consulate-elate-
relate”—how rottenly you rhyme!.... M.D.: Stale
as last week’s bread and flat as last week’s beer.
.... Platypus: The few verses which you apprehend
may be “too thick” are too thin... .EtE.: Banal.
.... .S.C.: Awful... .G.E.G.: “The Harbor Speaks”—
but it doesn’t seem to have anything worth saying.
. ...M.M.: Phrasing involved; metre rocky....
Iv.J.V.: Nearly 160 lines of tenth-rate verse! Try
your hand at a triolet.... Bunyip: Unsuccessful....
Mellamlet: You make over-heavy going of it....
O. : A sort of hymn and a feeble one at
that.... Hugh G.: Something in it, but you fail to
do justice to your theme... .Ramrod: It doesn’t score
even an outer... .R.J.: “The Dirge of Dan” too long-
drawn-out... .T.P.8.: Your ballade might have won
through with a more telling refrain... .C.T.G.:
Dreadful... .E.C.I-I.: “Musings” over-bemused. .. .
T.F.: Stupid; also irreverent... .J.II. S.: No snap in
it.... Nephew (W.A.): Prosy verse on a hackneyed
subject... .P.R.: “Invitation” declined. And what
is there in “1932” that wouldn’t suit any year?....
Jayenne: Reads true enough, but it needs more
skilful handling... .P.L.W. (London): Why send
that stuff all the way to Australia when it would
have a much better chance at home?.... J.8.L.:
Technically passable English sapphics, but there’s
more bathos than pathos in them.... R.W.A.: Bumps
along to a weak ending.... T.A.: Pleasant meandcr-
ings with no objective... .W.L.R.: You sigh:—
Although I’m yet within my ’teens
1 seem so old
That life has nought of pleasures left for me.
Nonsense, you might win the lottery any day!....
R.H.0.: Like the dog, but not the doggerel....
M.8.D.: Not up....Kuaka: Well enough done, but
it’s a theme as old as the troubadours. .. .Ricardo:
Agree with all you say about Australia, but as a
poem it’s more of an offence than a defence....
J.L.W.: Well, we like a blood-curdler now and then:
An island inhospitable
Was sighted near the wreck,
The fate of the crew was soon discovered
For dead men strewed the deck.
....Hesperian: Not yet; but you’re a trier....
P. : Has charm, but too thin... .Ming: Keep
going... .E.E.W.: The fragment came nearest.
Leave “Neptune’s rugged bed,” “requiem for the
dead,” “last trumpet’s call” and such-like phrases
to their well-earned rest....R.L.R.: Mechanical
rhyming. .. .K.H.: Not quite, but it’s light-hearted
and has atmosphere... .A.L.L.: Bankrupt verse....
A.M.K.: First two stanzas are good, the next
two weak. .. .A.S.: Enough of his for the present.
J.H.B.: Might suit a daily. . .A. 11.: Worth no
more than a par. .. . J.F.W.: No.. .. .J.R.R.: Interest
waned after the opening page. .. .R.H.: Have another
go at it; good idea, but treatment, impossible....
D.R.X.: How many thousands of readers do you
want us to lose? J.L.D.; Tedious H.G.P.: Not
nearly bright enough J.H.: Improving. Try
not to use outworn symbols like roses and thorns. . . .
1t.1..; Afraid “The Lumber-room of Failure” is their
destination. . . .P.FitzG.: You have atmosphere.
What about taking one thought at a time, rounding it
off and making it as clear to your reader as to your-
self?. .. .J.S.W.: Weakness in the last lines. .. .K.C.8.:
Won't quite do; but that vein is worth exploiting.
.. . . J. 8.: He was here referred to as “a wise old
king.” And wise old kings are not thin-skinned.
... .0.A.G.: Well enough done, but too obvious....
C.G.A.: Too slight, but has feeling E.F.: Time’s
goblet is one of the office’s oldest properties. .. .
M.A.F.: Sentimental tosh E.L.: Dreams are at
a discount It.G.H.: A little old-fashioned
John H.; One verse as a warning:—
Peaceful content, your tender years
Were wrapt in lamb’s cloth,
But the lions who toyed with the idle spears
Could not tame their wrath.
. ...M.P.: An idea, but no workmanship.... Phen-
nagerty: Some of your efforts at poetical expression
make our head reel, e.y., the assertion that if your
dejected swagman had been better treated by his
kindred,
His roaming days a. corpse had been
Ere they had breathed the air.
....Carol: Strikes ns as about the limit, even for
a Phar Lap dirge:—
He’s dead! The news came crashing, through, Phar
Lap, our noble horse,
That swift Australian speedster, the embodiment of
force.
. ...T.F.P.: Did you ever see anything like that in
The Bulletin?. .. .A.F.F.: No, your poem has
hardly the same effect on us that Chapman’s Homer
produced on Kjeats. But you can rhyme ingeniously ;
now find something worthwhile to rhyme about....
F.C.: A lightweight, but it nearly landed... .E.M.:
You flogged it too hard... .M.W.: Idea has been used
countless times D.H.: Fluttering home E.S.:
Painful G.F.; It would have to be cut down by
half before it would be considered... .G.P.F.; Hardly
worth the writing J.8.C.: Just slapped together.
K.F.E.: Tired of Joe long before the finish....
C.P.C.: Escaped serpent now coiled in w.p.b
S.H.: Sighted the end a mile off... .G.A.C.: Could
all be boiled down to a par... .C.A.L.: Wait until
you’ve written another hundred. .. .8.W.; Try one of
the Melbourne dailies.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.C.M.: Wouldn’t gain you a kindergarten leaving
certificate... .R. 8.: You ought to do well with
posters... .A.D.: No colored ones, please !... .H. 5.8.:
Utterly unlike Lang. .. .Harvey: Is it a cockroach
hurling itself to destruction ?.... M.J.0.: Dead....
J.V.L.: Idea has been overworked, but sketch is the
best you have turned out... .W.P.: Labor in vain.
. ...M.R.0.: Badly-done fashion-plates... .E.N.A..:
Effort to draw a lamb’s tail proved too much for
y0u....R.G.: You'll have to take lessons.


■
1
1
i
m
::
M
Wm.
1
4
■ : '-
■J
>?
I
■
m
I 1
■
1
r*
fir* ■•
■
1
d
r
H
::
m
%
m
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD,


The Bulletin
Vol. 53. —No. 2724.
April 27, 1932.
THE SICK MAN.
“Britain, faced with a prospective deficit of £74,000,000, has balanced its Budget, and another surplus is predicted for 1932-33. Trade is increasing and unem-
ployment decreasing, international capital is flowing towards London again, and the bank rate has been reduced to 3 p.c."
J. BULL: “If you’d taken your medicine instead of hogging that stuff, you’d be leaving this place with me.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: lUi-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 289 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westualia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, U Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street. Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 Jjs.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for >ioz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
WHAT WILL QUEENSLAND DO?
The last Queensland State election was
held in the last jmar of the boom. Parlia-
ment has been dissolved, and the parties are
preparing to go to the country, after nearly
two years and six months of slump. How
has Queensland come through that period,
which has so searchingly tested institutions,
industries and financial systems and tried
men’s souls? Comparatively well—better,
assuredly, than any other State, immeasur-
ably better than the misgoverned and dis-
tracted State immediately south. For this
Nature is to be thanked more than any set
of politicians, present or past, since Queens-
land is the State with the greatest area of
good land, the greatest diversity of pro-
duce and the greatest number of natural
ports. Yet some politicians of the past de-
serve to be remembered, though they are
almost forgotten. The men who built rail-
ways inland from Cairns, Townsville, Rock-
hampton and other outports built wisely,
and their work is standing Queensland in
good stead. If the natural ports had been
neglected as in other parts of the Common-
wealth; if rich districts in the interior had
been sacrificed to the aggrandisement of
the capital; if Brisbane had become a
smaller Sydney, exorbitant, over-populated,
fertile ground for the demagogue who tells
the city mob that “it produces all wealth”
and has been robbed of its inheritance by
“the capitalists”—if such had been Queens-
land’s fate its situation to-day might be as
bad as that of N. S. Wales. It could
scarcely be worse.
As it was, a power of mischief was done
by the so-called Labor party which ruled
Queensland for 14 years and was expelled
from office in 1929, leaving a bad smell. In
the 14 years it increased the State debt
from £56,869,000 to £112,162,000 and squan-
dered a great part of the money on wild-
cat enterprises—railways, cattle stations,
mining—which not only never paid but
never could pay, though in one of the
mining experiments certain insiders did
extremely well. When this “Labor” crowd
took office the Government railways were
showing a profit. When it was kicked out
they were insolvent and had been insolvent
for many years. These were the losses for
its last 10 years, as communicated to the
Commonwealth Statistician; and the 10
years were all boom years:—
1919. . £1,323,252 1925.. £735,460
1920.. 1,087,001 1926.. 1,586,883
1921.. 1,581,060 1927.. 1,890,362
1922.. 1,580,207 1928.. 1,551,831
1923.. 1,292,556 1929.. 1,536,864
1924.. 1,412,900
To clean up this mess would have been
a terrific task even in good times. The
Moore Government had just entered upon
it when the bad times arrived, and exchange
and unemployed problems, together with
the necessity of assisting stricken settlers,
were added to the burdens of an outrageous
public debt, insolvent railways and an over-
loaded public service. The Government has
grappled with all these difficulties regard-
less of votes. For a start, it got rid of
nearly all the State enterprises other than
railways, on which nearly £4,500,000 had
been lost. It reduced the salaries of mem-
bers of Parliament and public servants (the
latter by application to the industrial tri-
bunal), abolished the special travelling
allowance which the “Labor” Ministers had
awarded themselves, and ceased to employ
thousands of sinecurists with votes, although
(on a tax of 3d. in the £ of income, lately
raised to 6d.) it has found work for 11,000
unemployed, that being the weekly average.
It has also made substantial cuts in railway
freight-rates and fares (a thing never done
by the “Labor” Government), abolished the
super-tax on land, contrived to get the
wheatgrowers 4s. a bushel for their last
crop, and started a brisk back-to-the-land
movement which has had especially good
results in the domain of tobacco-growing.
And all this without adding a to the
funded debt. There has actually been a
slight reduction, if the value of the pro-
perties transferred to the Commonwealth
is taken into account.
Seven Australian Ministries have faced
the electors during the period of the de-
pression. None had a record as good as
the Moore Ministry can show. Yet, be-
cause it seems an Australian habit to change
Ministries in bad times (of the seven
Governments only McPhee’s survived), and
because the present generation doesn’t take
kindly to economy and retrenchment, hav-
ing been brought up with the idea that the
boom would last for ever, it is by no
means certain that Moore and his Minis-
ters will come back. Fools are going about
Queensland saying—as fools said in N. S.
Wales 18 months ago—“ Put ‘Labor’ in and
‘Labor’ will restore prosperity”; and other
fools are ready to believe them. The
promises that Forgan Smith is making read
strangely like the promises that Lang made.
And the Queensland public-service organi-
sations are opposing Moore as truculently
as the N.S.W. public-service organisations
opposed Bavin. The worst of it is that
there will be no legislative check on the
Bourbons of Queensland “Labor” if they
should be restored. The Government was
guilty of one serious sin of omission: it
neglected to set up a second Chamber. Yet
Queenslanders who think for themselves
must have learned something from the
desperate plight to which N. S. Wales has
been reduced as a result of putting its trust
in a reckless demagogue with a glittering
programme. They will surely perceive the
folly of placing the Old Gang in power
again when the Old Gang has so plainly
learned nothing. And though figures rarely
appeal to electors, the unemployed and
migration figures compiled by the Common-
wealth Statistician must. Seventeen point
five per cent, of unionists out of work in
“Tory” Queensland at the end of the
December quarter; 31.5 per cent, in “Labor”
N. S. Wales. Five thousand two hundred
people added to “Tory” Queensland’s popu-
lation last year by excess of immigration
over emigration; 9179 people lost by
“Labor” N. S. Wales. What more eloquent
warning could there be against changing a
Government like Moore’s for one that may
be like Lang’s?
THE KNOWLEDGE-TAXERS.
In terms of the civilisation of to-day, Aus-
tralia is an isolated country, sparsely and
unevenly populated, dependent for its com-
mercial existence on a few struggling indus-
tries and for its national existence on the
British Navy. In common with the rest
of the world it is passing through a phase
of depression. For a decade, and more,
there has been a progressive abandonment
of former standards of values, or their re-
duction to mere catchwords which nobody
takes seriously. Recent events show that
in England the drift has stopped; pre-war
standards of national honesty, purpose and
outlook are being steadily re-established by
the will of the people, often expressed
through personal self-sacrifice.
A salient feature of the British struggle
towards recovery from war-sickness has been
the careful fostering and encouragement
of intellectual effort, particularly in respect
of scientific research. It is a feature shared
with other European countries which suf-
fered from the war. These countries have
realised that the effects of scientific destruc-
tion can only be repaired by scientific
reconstruction, physical and psychical alike.
European intellectual workers of to-day have
available better and more extensive facilities
for the furthering of their work than were
available 20 years ago. The results are
apparent in a steady stream of new inven-
tions and discoveries of practical and com-
mercial value, affecting every aspect of
civilised existence.
The basic requirement for advancement
of knowledge in any community, or for
any individual, is that of ready access to
the recorded knowledge of other seekers.
Reference libraries, therefore, are the work-
shops of the thinker; without them he can-
not check or compare his results with those
of other thinkers and workers on his chosen
subject. There is here no vision of a spec-
tacled professor poring over a mathemati-
cal formula—although he comes into the
picture at a later stage maybe. Each
country has its own set of problems to solve
for its own salvation. The thinker may be
a blacksmith who believes that he has hit
on a new and better method of tempering a
particular steel, a sheepman who thinks that
he has found a way of breeding for a per-
fect fleece in four changes of ram-strain, a
house-painter who has an idea for a fire-
proof paint. If any of these ideas are
sound, they represent a substantial advance-
ment in applied human knowledge, the
establishment of new industries, or the sub-
stantial improvement of an existing one.
If they are not sound, mere following up by
trial and error will only result in waste of
money and time. There is only one way to
test their soundness and commercial appli-
cability, and that is to check them against
the sum total of the facts and principles
which underlie them. And so the black-
smith, the sheepbreeder and the house-
painter arrive eventually at the doors of
the reference library.
Australia is the only country in the civil-
ised world which, by putting a heavy tax
on the exchange of knowledge, bars itself
out from all hope of keeping abreast of the
rest of the world in intellectual progress.
Mr. Lyons, a tired, harassed man, absorbed
in fighting Langism and its dangerous possi-
bilities, has told us that he cannot afford
to lose the £120,000 or so of revenue which
comes out of handicapping every thinker in
Australia, of depriving our intellectual
workers of their essential tools of trade, and
of rendering the country an object of
amused contempt amongst brain-workers
throughout the world. More than any other
country, Australia needs the knowledge of
outside thinkers; its isolated position and
its dependence on a few vital industries
renders this need imperative. In place of
taxing it, Australia should make all intel-
lectual knowledge duty-free, should even
subsidise reference libraries.
In his earlier days as a struggling, earnest,
pupil-teacher, Mr. Lyons would have
thought hardly of any Prime Minister who
doubled the price of his textbooks, and
made it financially impossible for him to
keep abreast of the pedagogic thought of
the day. In his later years, as a Labor
politician, he preached the incalculable
advantages of knowledge and mind-culture
for the masses. Yet, as Prime Minister,
he continues to deprive every student and
thinker in Australia and Tasmania of the
advantages which he enjoyed, pleading as
his necessity a sum which he could save
many times over by cutting out even a
small modicum of the extravagance and
thinly-veiled political bribery which are still
such costly and obvious features of Com-
monwealth expenditure. He came into
office on a wave of implied, if not actually
promised, economy; nothing more has re-
sulted than a few gestures of “reorganisa-
tion,” designed to save political face rather
than the taxpayers’ money. The Federal
taxing-machine grinds on steadily in the
interests of the vast masses of superfluous
clerks, of the thousands who draw pen-
sions which they do not deserve, of the
drapers and publicans who receive the
greater part of the maternity bonus. Cus-
toms clerks continue to pile up pyramidal
charges on knowledge, beginning with the
packing-cases and wrapping-paper. And,
when a distinguished Australian thinker
tells Mr. Lyons at a public deputation that,
if he is to be deprived of his tools of trade
he must go to some other country where
he can afford to buy them, that gentleman
assumes an attitude of “dignified rebuke.”
It should have been an attitude of apolo-
getic contrition.
It Was not Mr. Lyons who originally im-
posed the tax —the man who shut off Aus-
tralia from modern thought and knowledge,
who reduced his countiy, intellectually, to
the level of Japan in the seventeenth cen-
tury. But an educationist by training, a poli-
tician of just and humane outlook, who
stressed often the need for exchange of
thought and ideas amongst individuals and
peoples, the father of a large family who,
like himself, will presumably have to make
their way in the world by their own brains,
as he has done, Mr. Lyons should be the
last man to countenance the sustained sale
of Australia’s birthright of access to the
world’s knowledge for so mean a mess of
pottage.
PARLIAMENT MAY STILL IMPEACH.
Not the least interesting aspect of the
situation in N. S. Wales is the hopeless-
ness with which the great mass of the
community regards the chaos in which
political incapacity, dishonesty and dis-
loyalty have plunged it. This attitude of
resignation has not been altered by the
measures taken by the Lyons Government
to avert ruin from the Commonwealth and
the component States. People merely
shrug their shoulders and say, “What’s the
use?” Yet, thanks to the wisdom of our
forefathers, the holder of high office is as
subject to the workaday laws, if he offends
against them, as any other misdemeanant
or felon. What is more, British law places
in the hands of Parliaments.—which in the
long run mean the people themselves—
powerful means of bringing to book those
who have betrayed the public trust.
Attainder and Impeachment are weapons
which have fallen into disuse within the
Empire; but thej ? are still employable.
Attainder, as it stands to-day, is imple-
mented by a bill introduced to Parliament
setting out the charges against an accused
person. Like all other bills, it must re-
ceive the assent of both Parliament and
the Crown, being purely legislative in form.
In British practice a bill of attainder is
usually initiated in the Upper House, the
parties affected being represented by
counsel, if desired, and allowed to call
witnesses. The general practice followed
is that attending on ordinary bills. The
bill, if passed, may be reversed by a further
bill, like any other Act of Parliament.
English criminals in high places have been
executed under bills of attainder. English
law also provides for bills of pains and
penalties, which impose a lesser punishment
than death. The measure introduced in the
N.S.W. Assembly which strikes at a news-
paper critic of the Administration, and if
passed w'ould perhaps ruin him. might be
placed in that category.
Impeachment is entirely a judicial pro-
cess. The Lower House initiates the pro-
ceedings and the Upper House sits in judg-
ment. A motion for impeachment having
been passed in the Lower House, the
movers and seconders formally impeach
the accused at the Bar of the Upper House
in the name of Parliament and the people.
Charges are formulated in writing, and may
be answered in the same way. The prose-
cution must confine itself to the articles
of impeachment, though these may be
added to. The Lower House then appoints
managers to conduct its case, but it must
be present at the hearing in committee.
The accused may employ counsel, and the
President of the Upper House is the con-
trolling authority. Hearing follows the pro-
cedure of an ordinary trial, witnesses being
called for the defence and the prosecution
having the right of reply.
At the close of the trial each member
of the Upper House is asked by the Presi-
dent for his verdict. The question is put
on each individual article of impeachment;
the President gives his finding last.. If
defendant is found guilty, judgment fol-
lows only if the Lower House moves for it.
the latter thus keeping the final decision in
its own hands. Guilty persons can be re-
prieved or pardoned, but by the Lower
House only—the exercise of the Royal pre-
rogative is in this instance specially elimin-
ated.
The last British impeachment was that
of Lord Melville in 1805, though an attempt
was made to impeach Lord Palmerston in
1848. In the U.S.A., where procedure fol-
lows closely on British lines, comparatively
modern cases are those of President Andrew
Johnson in 1868 and Judge Barnard, of
New York, in 1872. In our Federal union,
as in that of the Republic across the
Pacific, a citizen could certainly be im-
peached for high crimes and misdemeanors
against the nation, whoever he might be.
It may be argued that resort to a now
little-used legal procedure in order to call
political criminals to account would
create a disturbing precedent where Aus-
tralia is concerned. The answer is that
desperate situations call for desperate
remedies, and that there are no other
methods by which such criminals can get
their deserts. In any case, the creation of
a precedent or two is overdue in Australia.
We have so long been content to loaf on
the opinions of other people that we seem
unable to think for ourselves on construc-
tive lines. It has been said that a man
who never creates a precedent never
creates anything, and the aphorism is
doubly true of a nation.
I maintain that action under the laws
of Attainder or Impeachment can be taken
by a State Legislature against any citizen
of the State, or by the Commonwealth
Legislature against any citizen of the Com-
monwealth, “for treason or any other crime
or misdemeanor.” No politician or public
official enjoys any immunity from these
law's; and the fact should be brought home.
Recourse to impeachment would disabuse a
lot of minds of the notion that, given a
majority won by false pretences, a poli-
tician can, wdth impunity, play ducks and
drakes with the community’s affairs, even
to ruining its finances, rebelling against its
laws and wrecking its institutions.
COIF.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Lang Is"—Wrong.
Sydney Town Hall has been the scene of
another mob demonstration with Mr. Lang
as the hero. The orders were issued in
time for the place to be filled long before
the performance began, and loud-speakers
carried the leading man’s rasping and high-
pitched voice beyond the walls of the
building, in which Alderman Donald Grant
(a conspicuous figure in the proceedings)
labors for the improvement of mankind.
Despite annoying interruptions, caused by
imperfectly rehearsed comrades who would
laugh or applaud in the wrong places, Mr.
Lang bravely delivered his message to his
mob, and to the world which is against him
—being dominated by brutal capitalists
who, like Mr. Micawber’s creditor, want
to be paid. It was the familiar stuff—he
stands for the pore against the rich, for
Men before Money, for Babies before Bond-
holders—but it went as well as ever, par-
ticularly the part about the mothers and
the babies, for whose sake he has estab-
lished three lotteries a week and two meet-
ings at the tin-hare joints. Really the
spectacle of this hard-faced house-agent and
patron of gambling, who smiles rarely and
then unpleasantly, blithering that his heart
bleeds for the mothers and babies, when he
has so obviously done well for himself in
the world and at the table, is enough to
make a cat laugh. But nobody laughed
in the Town Hall on Thursday night. It
would have been unsafe, with the basher
gang about.
While the details of this Town Hall show
were being arranged the High Court was
hearing argument on the Lang Govern-
ment’s application for leave to appeal to
the Privy Council against the judgment
upholding the Financial Agreements En-
forcement. Act, and on writs for injunc-
tions to restrain banks from paying to the
Commonwealth money attached under the
Act. Evidently the thought occurred to
crude minds that Mr. Justice McTiernan
might be intimidated into reversing the
judgment he gave in favor of the measures
taken under the Act; in which case
(supposing the Chief Justice and Evatt, J.,
remained of the same mind) the operation
of those measures would be suspended
indefinitely. Mr. McTiernan has been a
target for blackguardly insults and savage
slanders. “To my mind,” said Davidson,
the egregious Minister of Works, “Teddie
never had an opinion of his own. I was
associated with him in the Labor party for
a number of years, and I recognised him as
a man who always looked for a lead. He
invariably watched to see which way the


majority went, and consistently he would
vote for the majority. He has never really
grown up.” The Lang newspaper, in per-
haps the vilest attack ever made on a
member of the judiciary, likened Mr.
McTiernan to an Irish informer.
But High Court Judges are not to be
terrorised by the language and methods of
the mob. Leave to appeal to the Privy
Council was refused by five to one (Mr.
Justice Evatt); the applications for injunc-
tions were dismissed by four to two (the
Chief Justice and Evatt, J.). In effect, the
Commonwealth may lawfully attach bank
deposits of the N. S. Wales Government
while that Government remains in default
to overseas creditors, the nation and the
nation’s bank; and the defaulting Govern-
ment acted lawlessly—deliberately broke
its own State Audit Act—in transferring
its funds from the banks to the Treasury
in the process of repudiating its obligations
under the financial agreement. It has acted
lawlessly, likewise, in holding up the issue
of Commonwealth income-tax assessments
and in locking the doors of the offices in
which documents the property of the Com-
monwealth are stored; and as an outcome
of its utterly reckless and dangerous pro-
ceedings creditors of the State and people
entitled to child-endowment relief—the very
Mothers and Babies about whom Mr. Lang
bleats so much, though not the politicians
or the public servants —go unpaid. Yet
Sir Philip Game remains a supine spectator
of this crazy and crooked sort of rebellion.
It is announced that he is reluctant to
dismiss his bad advisers or compel them to
consult the constituencies. The resolute
demeanor of his predecessor in an emer-
gency immeasurably less grave obliged Mr.
Lang to go to the country; but reluctance
seems to be Sir Philip Game’s habitual
state of mind.
Premiers and Professors.
It was unfortunate that two of the Premiers
who foregathered in Melbourne during the
past fortnight should have been preoccupied
with election addresses, and therefore in-
disposed to take or coincide in bold
decisions; thrice unfortunate that a. third
Premier should have been Lang, in the
wildest stage of his mad career as nark
and wrecker. Unanimity was thus impos-
sible, nor were the resolutions arrived at
by majority such as to arouse enthusiasm.
It was agreed that £3,000,000 should be
borrowed to provide work for unemployed
during the winter. Another dose of the
drug which was taken in such excessive
quantities between 1919 and 1929 will not
help Australia out of its troubles, but a
flicker of interest has been excited by the
announcement that N. S. Wales’s share —
£600,000 —will be handed to local bodies
for distribution instead of to the defaulter
Lang.
A 10 per cent, reduction of 1928 wage
rates was recommended to the State
Premiers by a committee of “experts,”
chiefly professors, and turned down with
promptitude. The idea is that no party
standing for wage reduction can succeed at
the polls, yet the thing has arrived, in spite
of political pretences. Lang himself re-
duced wages 5 per cent, when he brought
in his unemployed-relief tax, and he was
with difficulty restrained from making the
tax (and the "cut) 20 per cent. Eveiy man
who is “rationed” has suffered a reduction
of wages; so has every man who has to
maintain an unemployed member of his
family. The Premiers nevertheless feel that
if the professors were bent on giving un-
palatable advice they might have offered
it tactfully—sugar-coated the pill.
Perhaps there ai*e too many professors
at these conferences. Because a head is
crammed with learning it does not follow
that the owner is wise. Sydney has two
residents much in the public eye who possess
great knowledge and little wisdom. One
is a professor of philosophy who works
himself into a most unphilosophic state
of indignation when the Town Hall is
refused to Communists engaged in a con-
spiracy to overthrow our institutions and
establish a Red Republic on the ruins,
though the refusal of free speech, the vote,
private property and the right of associa-
tion to the unbutchered remnant of the
anti-Reds in Russia leaves him cold. The
other gentleman’s prescription for general
happiness is that loafers, spendthrifts and
noodles should be kept by the industrious,
the thrifty and the fit; and unfortunately
he is in a position to cram it down the
public’s throat. It might be advantageous
if the next consultative committee were
composed of (1) a farmer or grazier, (2) a
business man, (3) a trade-union officer of
the old school, (4) a financial journalist,
and (5) a young professional man, unem-
ployed. “The thoughts of youth are long,
long thoughts,” and the Premiers should
make it their business to know what un-
employed youth is thinking. And if those
who can still pay taxes have to make fresh
sacrifices, they would greatly prefer to make
them on behalf of young men and women,
who have been so cruelly used by the
depression, and who will be paying for
Langism long after Lang has vanished from
the scene, together with his “fruit” machines,
his lottery and his tin hares.
Maoriland’s March to Solvency.
Maoriland’s financial troubles have their
root in exactly the same causes as those
of Australia. Like this continent, the
Dominion accepted the substantial increase
in prices that accompanied the Great War
and survived it for several years as a per-
manent feature of the landscape. Where
Ballance was content to borrow £400,000 a
year, Seddon something under £2,000,000, and
Ward, in his first Administration, £4,500,000,
the succeeding Ministries, despite the debts
which the country’s war effort involved,
considered it safe to increase overseas lia-
bility by anything from £7,000,000 to
£10,000,000 a year. The optimistic spirit of
Vogel returned, and the risks to posterity
of a public-works policy far in advance of
the nation’s reasonable current require-
ments were not mentioned by any save a
few greybeards in Parliament, whose views
were dismissed as the mutterings of Rip van
Winkles.
But, unlike Australia, as soon as the first
cold blasts of the depression were felt
Maoriland awoke from grandiose dreams
and faced the facts fairly and squarely, an
attitude that comes naturally to a country
with a relatively large rural population,
many ports and no unduly-bloated cities.
The fact that a sudden and tremendous
contraction of national income involved a
terribly hard struggle to maintain solvency
was accepted as implicitly as was the seem-
ing prosperity of the immediately preceding
years. Forbes, the Liberal leader, who was
in the saddle when the need for retrench-
ment first arose, did not shirk his task, and
the results of the general election suggest
that if there was any dissatisfaction with his
policy on the part of a majority of the
people, it was on the grounds that he
hadn’t been thorough enough. Before the
election the Liberals were dependent for
office on a Labor tail. After it, the Re-
formers, led by ex-Priminister Coates, were
in the position of king-makers, and a coali-
tion, proposed by Forbes a year earlier,
became inevitable.
The combined team found itself faced
with an £8,300,000 deficit, inescapable contri-
butions to which were expenditure on
unemployment relief—a cardinal feature of
which is that the money must be earned —
and a 10 p.c. exchange addition to overseas
interest. Part of that gap is to be bridged
by a further cut in civil-service pay, by
reducing old-age pensions and some of the
war pensions, by appropriating funds nor-
mally earmarked for motor roads, and by
increasing special taxation for unemploy-
ment relief from 3d. to Is. in the £ on
wages. The income-tax exemption limit
has been reduced, and there is special tax-
ation on bachelors and spinsters. It is pro-
posed, further, to reduce private interest
and rents by 20 p.c., with a minimum of
6J>- p.c. for chattel and 5 p.c. for land mort-
gages. The compulsory feature of the Indus-
trial Arbitration Act has been already ex-
cised. The trading banks have agreed to
reduce their overdraft rate from 6i to
6 p.c.
These steps, remarkably drastic from a
Maoriland standpoint, followed a little ex-
cursion to the pawnshop, undertaken on the
principle of any port in a storm. The
Dominion’s credit stands as high as that
of any overseas unit of the Empire, but
the underwriters had to take nearly half of
a £5,000,000 loan at 5 p.c. issued at 981-.
Manifestly that line of amelioration is not
promising, and the islanders feel that they
will have to go on hoeing a hard row without
much more outside assistance than is repre-
sented by the American and Imperial Govern-
ments’ war debt moratoriums. But—and
this is where the picture seems to differ
considerably from the Australian scene—it
isn’t suggested by anyone that if the Gov-
ernment went to an election . to-morrow
there would be any vital change in the rep-
resentation, or in the carrying out of the
country’s settled policy of cutting its coat
according to its cloth.
It is significant that the unemployed
workers’ organisation has specifically and
emphatically condemned the looting that
took place in Auckland, and that some of
the ringleaders of that disturbance have
been shown to be fairly recent arrivals with
criminal records.
The First Blow.
One feature that contributed to the serious
development of the Auckland riots seems
to have been the delay in arming the
guardians of law and’ order with full powers
to cope effectually with the disturbance
in the early stages. Swift and resolute
action is imperative in dealing with out-
breaks of the kind, since evei-y minute
wasted brings the mob fresh recruits en-
couraged by the apparent supineness of
authority. In Auckland, the police, few as
they were, seem to have summed up the
situation quickly and well, but the consti-
tuted authorities hesitated to read the Riot
Act. Thus shorn of half their strength,
the constables were soon overpowered.
Had the Riot Act been read at once many
thousands of pounds’ worth of property
would have been saved, and the cost of
maintaining rioters in prison at the public
expense would have been obviated. Noth-
ing is so calculated to quell an incipient
outbreak like that in Auckland as the
prompt display of lethal weapons. In
ninety-nine cases out of a hundred a few
shots fired over the heads of the mob will
scatter it.
It is to be hoped that if similar up-
heavals break out in Australia authority
will keep the Auckland lesson in mind.
The Federal Land Tax.
A strong impression prevails that the Com-
monwealth’s graduated land tax has seen
its day, if it ever had one. There are State
and municipal land taxes all over the shop,
and an extra Federal one, which yields little
and costs a great deal to collect, seems
superfluous. It is supposed to have a good
restraining effect on big estates, but it has
nothing to do with the size of estates —
only with the alleged value of them, which
is a wholly different affair. The money
charged on big country estates which theo-
retically ought to be cut up is diminishing
very fast. The money charged on highly-
valued town land allotments which are too
small to be cut up is increasing. The big
estates which pay because they are over-
large are taxed £920,307 by the most recent
figures. The town allotments, some of
them measuring only 30ft. across, which
pay because they are over-valued, are taxed
£1,950,567, and the sum almost doubled in
four years.
Whatever principle was involved went
overboard when the Federal tax became a
dodge for raising money and for raising
the cost of living in the towns. It would
have had a definite purpose if it had applied
to estates worth over, say, £lO,OOO provided
each measured at least 30 acres, but to
specially tax pocket-handkerchief city allot-
ments with fancy prices under the pretence
that they should be cut up into smaller
living areas is absurd.
There are people who clamor for a large
reduction of Customs duties, which would
reduce the Customs revenue, increase the
bill to be paid for imported goods, and
damage Australian industry. If these
quaint folk consider that Australia has some
revenue to spare they might think over the
abolition of the Commonwealth graduated
land tax so far as it applies to little town
allotments which are quite unfit for closer
settlement. That exaction doesn’t help any
Australian industry.
4
Public-Service Politicians.
The recent demands by the leaders of the
Public Servants’ Association for exemp-
tion trom a fair share of sacrifice in the
job of getting Australia off the rocks
illustrate the inability of the bureau-
cratic mind infected with party poli-
tics to see straight when faced up
with practical affairs. This association
represents some 200,000 Government em-
ployees, to whom over £50,000,000 is paid
annually. The majority are clerks of various
kinds, who receive liberal wages, even after
the deductions to which their leaders object,
together with substantial perquisites, for
doing much less than the work required
from a clerk in any occupation exposed to the
stress of commercial competition. Unlike
him, they are entrenched behind a barrier
of Public Service Acts, political influence
and bureaucratic pretence, and they are
encouraged to regard themselves as entitled
to support for life. By their numbers and
organisation they awe parties and Govern-
ments, and the politicians among them are
sufficiently acquainted with the inside run-
ning of the game to make it very uncom-
fortable for any Premier who is seriously
suspected of an intention to dock their
pay or privileges.
This gathering of paid servants of Gov-
ernments indulged in noisy denunciation
of the considered and collective action of
the chiefs of those Governments. One
gentleman congratulated Mr. Lang on hav-
ing “taken control of the public credit of
his State,” and demanded that the Gov-
ernments “should continue to issue their
cheques and challenge the banks to dis-
honor them.” Government employees were
referred to as a class specially singled out
to bear “an excessive and unjust burden.”
This is ridiculous when asserted in a com-
munity of which scarcely an individual
but considers himself lucky if he has
escaped with deprivation of less than a
quarter of his income, and in which there
are at least 300,000 able-bodied folk who
have lost their incomes altogether. A
country, moreover, which is being taxed to
the very limit of its endurance, and in
very considerable part, for the purpose of
supporting these same Government ser-
vants whose spokesmen claim that any
demand on them for self-sacrifice at a time
of grave national need is “wrong in prin-
ciple, and a vitiation of the recognised
canons of taxation.” They pay taxes, of
course, direct and indirect, like the rest
of the community, and are, therefore, en-
titled to representation. But it should be
made perfectly clear that they must pull
their weight, and share in the sacrifices
made by those whose businesses and jobs
are not secure, if they are to retain thffir
present advantages. The Bulletin be-
lieves that the bulk of them recognise this,
if the gentlemen who held forth at the
Melbourne conference don’t.
4
Communism Tries to Make Cars.
Apparently the failure of the grent Revolu-
tionary factory for supplying Russia with
cheap home-made Ford cars was a worse
affair than at first reported. It was sup-
posed to employ 25,000 workers, and after
three months it turned out no finished cars
and damaged a good deal of machinery.
The simple and well-intentioned category
of the boss-Bolsheviks is this:—
All produce belongs to the State, and the
State exports to the limit because it wants
to raise money abroad with which to buy
machinery, etc., for its ambitious Plan. Its
own people, who are fed by the State, are
consequently on very short allowance. This
is why we read of them standing for hours
in queue formation with their food books
under their arms.
When the up-to-date machineiy has been
acquired, often by selling raw materials at
cut prices, a large proportion of the workers
don’t know how to use it. If it was pos-
sible to get 25,000 factory-hands capable of
using properly the strange apparatus for
making Ford cars, then there would have
been a fair number cap.ablc of making the
apparatus, instead of it being bought abroad
by the sale of raw materials grown by
people who are on short allowance them-
selves.
The boss-Bolsheviks have undertaken to
make Russia a great and successful manu-
facturing nation inside five years,' and no
amount of cussing will achieve the result
in the time, especially as the boss-Bol-
sheviks know so little themselves.
4
Capital Punishment.
Dear Bulletin, —Some very unpleasant
murders have been perpetrated lately in
Sydney. In one case a death sentence was
passed, but it is highly improbable that it
will be carried out. In such matters it is the
rule for the widespread objection to capital
punishment to be emotionally stressed.
When there are redeeming features it is
generally held that a short term of imprison-
ment is sufficient. If there is no redeeming
feature and no visible provocation, that is
often held to denote insanity and irrespon-
sibility. With a little influence the insanity
and irresponsibility may be very temporary.
A great deal is made by professional
humanitarians of a four-word verse (No.
13 of the 20th chapter of Exodus) which
says “Thou shalt not kill.” But another
verse (No. 12 of chapter 21) says
that when the killer is convicted he
shall assuredly be put to death, and verse
14 adds that even if he takes refuge in
church he shall be scragged just the same.
Evidently the prohibition in the Decalogue
forbids the slaughter of the two young
people who were killedt and buried at
Bankstown, but the killing of the killer
of these two young people, provided
he can be identified and convicted, is
strictly enjoined. The chief reason for
this attitude may be plain vengeance.
It may be to prevent a repetition
of the unwholesome act, it being recog-
nised that the blood-thirst will probably
repeat itself when started. Or it may be
considered that that kind of degenerate
shouldn’t continue to reproduce his species.
The sins of the father aren’t supposed to
be visited on the children, but if there are
12 children that is no reason why they
should increase to 16 after the old sinner
is bowled out. The Scripture-writer may
have had any or all of these ideas in view.
Much is made of the alleged fact that
the executioner’s job is a soul-hardening
and demoralising one, 'but a great deal
depends on how and with what speed the
execution is done. The same may be said
of the gaol warder who spends his weary
.years watching the unhanged defendant,
rotting out his life sentence. The warder
may be an estimable man, but he has no
earthly chance of being appointed deacon
of any high-toned congregation. If he
spends much of his time in watching the
sentences of hereditary criminals whose un-
deserved misfortune it was that some ances-
tor wasn’t scragged in time, he may have
a low opinion of his job himself.—Yours
etc., Clifford Snook.
4
Sex Education.
Dear Bulletin, — I have been reading a
report in a London daily of a lecture given
in the Ladies’ Carlton Club by Professor
Sir Arthur Thomson on “The Sex Educa-
tion of Children.” He complained that
mothers weren’t sufficiently outspoken with
their offspring concerning mating and birth.
We fear to call certain natural functions
and certain parts of the human body by
their right names, he said. That is the root
of the whole trouble. It is responsible
for false shame, sex repressions and obses-
sions, and all their attendant evils. “Let
us be done with reticence,” the professor
concluded. “We must avoid all figleaf
verbiage.” He was talking not to children
but to grown-ups, yet he didn’t call a spade
a spade once. His whole address, wher-
ever it touched on a delicate topic, con-
sisted of figleaf verbiage. And necessarily
so.
A publisher has just brought out a bowd-
lerised edition of Lawrence’s “Lady Chat-
terly’s Lover” because any bookseller
caught selling an unbowdlerised edition in
Britain would be prosecuted. The porno-
graphy has been left in; but the naughty
words have been yanked out.
Professor Thomson’s idea is that school-
teachers should use the words which he was
afraid to utter in the Ladies’ Carlton to classes
of children. It strikes me as impracticable
in England or here for three reasons at least:
(1) It would unduly embarrass some of the
children and unduiy amuse others; (2) it
would infuriate some parents—at a mod-
erate estimate 85 per cent.; (3) it would
ruin the teacher’s reputation for respecta-
bility (the pedagogue’s chiefest jewel) if it
didn’t get him prosecuted for obscenity.
These reforms are easy to theorise, about,
but uncommonly hard to put into practice.
—Yours etc., Henri Singemoine.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Diamond Engagement Mings
£3O
£2O
£25
...
The diamonds used in the rings illus-
trated are guaranteed fiuest-quality
blue-white gems, the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout, . with pure
platinum settings, these rings are still
offered at pre-tariff prices, and. repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
SYDNEY:
13 HUNTER STREET.
BRISBANE.
I I 6 QUEEN STREET.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Vic.’s 30tli Parliament died on Friday,
after supply to June 30 had been passed
and the provisions of the Unemployed Occu-
piers and Farmers’ Relief Act, expiring on
May 1, had been extended by enactment to
July 1. The new House will be elected on
May 14; nominations close on Friday next
and May 31 is the last day for the return of
writs. The main election issues are con-
tinuance of the Premiers' plan and provision
for the workless, with as little of the dole
in any scheme as possible.
The Queensland State election will have
one unusual feature. In the good old
“Labor” time thousands of new Government
employees were signed on in election years,
and unobtrusively retired (particular pets
of politicians excepted) when the State had
been made safe for demagoguery. In June,
1925, there were 35,011 persons in the Gov-
ernment departments; in June, ’26, there
were 42,616; in June, ’27, 39,337 —the elec-
tion took place in May, ’26. The joke has
not been repeated this time. Mooi-e’s Gov-
ernment, whatever its faults, is not that
sort of Government.
At the Premiers’ conference Lang gave
another airing to his musty allegation that
“the Niemeyer agreement, aimed at reducing
the Australian workers to the level of the
Argentine gypsies.” The Consul-General for
Argentina got heavily home on him by point-
ing out in a letter that in Argentina there
are “n 0 strikes, very little unemployment and
consequently no need for doles; reductions in
salaries have been accepted without demur,
everyone preferring them to unemployment.”
Above all, “Argentina has fulfilled her obli-
gations with regard to her external debts.”
The Premier who defaulted, broke a bank
and has 120,000 unemployed, according to
his own officials’ reckoning, did not publish
his reply, if he sent a reply.
How these “comrades” love one another!
Lyons announced that his Ministry was send-
ing M. B. Duffy to Ottawa as a Labor “con-
sultant.” Thereupon Cameron, president of
the Vic. A.L.P., said that, of course, Duffy,
now a member of the Commonwealth Bank
Board, didn’t really represent organised
Labor, though it is only a few months since
Duffy was secretary of the Melbourne Trades
Hall Council. It is a serious offence for one
“comrade” to score an overseas trip that
many another would like. Duffy, by the way,
is the only “consultant” whose expenses will
be paid by the Commonwealth Government;
the other “consultants” are H. W. Knox,
Sam McKay, 11. W. Osborne and F. H.
Tout.
Because the majority of their colleagues
want to skittle a section of the Premiers’ plan
Works Minister Jones and H'on. Minister
Kiernan have resigned from the Vic. Labor
Government. Hogan, who is for the plan, is
still Premier in name at the moment of writ-
ing, but he is not to be “endorsed” for War-
renheip-Grenville. Acting Premier Tunnecliffe
THE BOSS : “Now, Tunnecliffe, if you can’t
be like him you’ve gotter look like
him. See?”
said to his Collingwood constituents that the
Premiers’ plan would be continued except
in respect of public-service salaries on the
lower scale; a classification and efficiency
board would survey them. Jones referred to
this expedient as a subterfuge to appease “an
outside body”—the A.L.P. junta in Lygon-
street.
When his Government was about to fall,
Cain, Minister fOr Vic. Railways, an-
nounced his “policy” in respect of those de
jected enterprises. Cain would write off
£15,000,000 or £20,000,000, press for reduc-
tion of overseas interest, and increase re-
ceipts by £350,000 by abolishing “unfair”
motor competition. Coming to the carrots,
he said he would reduce freight rates and
fares by 10 p.c. and withdraw a sinking
fund of £130,000 now paid by the Treasury.
The “policy,” he claimed would “benefit” the
railways to the extent of £720,000 a year.
There arc nbos. at Lake Tyers who might
believe it.
There is a fine argument for the White
Australia policy in the jury list selected for
the trial in Honolulu of Lieut. Massie for
killing a Hawaiian who was implicated in
a hideous outrage on his wife. The jury
comprises seven white Americans, a Portu-
guese, two Chinese, a pure-blooded Hawaiian
and one Cliinese-Hawaiian. And all Ameri-
can citizens!
Evasion of the Financial
Agreements Enforcement Act
by paying State money into
private accounts for subse-
quent disbursements by
cheque doubtless looks clever
to shifty politicians, but the
Commonwealth Taxation
Commissioner may have
something to say about it. It
will be awkward if the other
party to the proceedings—
the boss of a public-service
union perhaps—should be
called upon to pay tax on
large sums which have
passed through his account,
with the alternative of sub-
mitting to the substantial
penalties provided in the
Enforcement Act.
Concannon told the N. 8.
Wales Upper House that his
Government expected to col-
lect £120,000 gross p.a. in
Harbor Bridge tolls, “leaving
£192,500 annually to be met
from consolidated revenue.”
Collections for the month to
April 19 amounted to
£16,724. But it was a
month of perfect autumn
weather (autumn is the
most beautiful season of the year in
Sydney), thousands of trippers were in
town for the Bridge opening, the Show
and the Randwick races, and crossing
the £10,000,000 job was still something
of a novelty. On fine days, it is explained,
collectors now average “about £380”; but “on
Sunday, April 17, when the weather was un-
favorable for outings, the takings dropped by
more than £lOO compared with previous
Sundays.” Unless a miracle happens con-
solidated revenue will be drawn on for a
lot more than “£192,500 annually.”
Queensland Labor is not so cocksure about
winning the State election since it was
beaten in the Kelvin Grove ward of Greater
Brisbane. Kelvin Grove was represented by
Labor-alderman Gaffney, who died, and
O’Brien sought to hold the seat. At the end
of the first count he led by 545, but the pre-
ferences of the other two candidates brought
Curtis home: Curtis, 1710; O’Brien, 1670.
The franchise is the same as for the Leg.
Assembly. There are now seven Labor and
13 non-Labo'r aldermen.
“Immediate demands” made by the unem-
ployment committee in Melbourne, in view
of the Assembly general election, include a
six-hour working day; a five-day week;
equal pay for equal work irrespective of sex
or age; free boots, clothing, blankets, fuel
and lighting; a complete moratorium for
tenants; a dole at the rate of pay for
“rationed” work when such work is unavail-
able, and no toil in return for mere sus-
tenance. The committee also “demands” a>
three years’ moratorium on overseas inter-
est and abolition of the State Uppish House.
“Demands” for the sun, moon and stars were
unaccountably omitted.
Queensland has found it possible to make
yet another cut in rail fares and freight
rates. On “second-class goods” the reduction
is 10 p.c.; on wool it is 5 p.c.; on sheep, 2£
p.c. to 7| p.c. according to distance; on other
stock, 5 p.c. And all passenger fares, sea-
son and workers' tickets included, come
down 5 p.c. In N.S.W. fares and freight-
rates are more likely to go up than down,
if the movement in bread and milk prices
is any criterion.
The demonstration staged by th£ Sydney
A.L.P. on Thursday night was one of the
most impudent interferences with the rights
of the common citizen on record. To quote
the “Labor Daily”:—
Between 7.30 and 8 o’clock a never-ending stream
of people, extending to the full width of George-
■ street, pressed forward. Both sides of George-street
were lined, and Park-street was also blocked to
traffic. Traffic was suspended while demonstrators
marched from King’s Cross, Paddington, etc. ; in
George-street, at 7.45, trams were tied up for blocks.
A few weeks ago a small crowd which had
gathered of its own accord to have a look
at De Groot was violently dispersed by the
police. Thursday night’s crowd assembled
in response to appeals made for days before,
and impeded amusement-seekers in the theat-
rical centre of the city. It should give Syd-
ney’s amazing casual inhabitants a line as
to what will happen to tlie'm if the Lang
dictatorship is made permanent.
De Valera declares that Ireland will not
admit that the sovereignty of Ireland is
vested to any extent in any country except
Ireland. Therefore he demands the abolition
of the oath of allegiance and the establishment,
of a republic. But if the sovereignty of Ireland
and of Scotland and Wales and England
each rests exclusively in its own country
there will be four rather weak republics,
and the game may be hardly worth while.
Britain has become a Protectionist country.
Concessions are granted to members of tin 1
British Commonwealth of Nations, but if
Ireland separates for the sake of being able
to say that the whole of its weak Govern-
THE LAW : “And that’s that.”
ment and its insufficient defence are inside
the island it will select a bad time to get on
the wrong side of the tariff wall.
A Sunday paper has been doing a sym-
pathetic weep over the lonesome position of
Governor Game, of N. S. Wales, who has
no one to advise him in the scuffle with Lang.
But after all Governor Game’s solitariness
is of his own seeking, and he only liunts_ for
it because he likes it. The law provided
Governor Game (and Lang) with about a
million advisers in a certain matter (the
abolition of the Upper House) ; in other
words, it provided for a referendum. Lang
wanted to deprive himself and Governor
Game of these advisers without asking their
consent, and Governor Game’s obvious busi-
ness was to ask the referendum electors
whether they consented to be deprived of
their referendum vote without their consent.
A general election, which -is a referendum,
would have supplied the answer. In Swit-
zerland, the home of the referendum, it is
never suggested that the whole nation may
be deprived of its referendum vote because
a boss politician feels that he could get along
better without it. And nobody weeps over
the lonesome position of the poor head of
the State because he has no one to share his
responsibility.
Foch was nearly 67 when appointed
commander-in-chief of the Allied armies; but
in N. S. Wales , under Lang rule a man of
that, age is considered to' be in his dotage.
According to Lang’s newspaper, “the Trans-
port Commission’s policy is that when
officers reach 60 years they shall retire.” The
general manager of the railway refreshment
rooms and the director of the Railway and
TramAvay Institute are among the latest to
go, and altogether, it is announced, “about
900” railway and tramway officers are
“affected.” It is a blue lookout for the tax-
payer, for they will all be entitled to pen-
sions or gratuities, and the railway and
tramway superannuation fund has been vir-
tually insolvent for 10 years. For vote-
catching, purposes it was decided that con-
tributors should pay only 1J p.c. of their
salaries and wages and that the taxpayer
should make up the balance required. His
share amounted to £136,500 in 1929-30 and
£178,000 in 1930-31. and it will be £250.000
or thereabouts before long—unless he is
goaded into resistance.
Mob orators can still arouse the indigna-
tion of the horny-handed by asserting that
absentees are “sucking the life-blood out of
the country”; but the detailed information
furnished by Taxation Commissioners makes
the assertion ridiculous. Queensland income-
tax laws discriminate against absentees. For
the year to June 30, 1930, 852 of them paid
£9165 in primary and super taxes on income
amounting to £235,265. of which £100,165
was taxable. Absentees made a poor show-
ing compared with the hotelkeepers—749,
who paid £31,254 ou £1,622,764 of gross
income, £375,934 being taxable. Gross in-
come for the twelvemonth amounted to
£87,099,149. Public servants (15,091 State
and 2708 Commonwealth) collected £5,796,424
(6.655 p.c.) of it and paid £72,964 ( 3.054
p.c.) of the tax-revenue received.
The League delegation which has entered
the Manchurian cockpit is finding its hands
full. The Japanese General Tamon says he
will require 100,000 troops to suppress ban-
ditry ; and the Soviet is reported to have
massed nine divisions on the frontier. And
the Chinese Republicans have declared their
ex-emperor a rebel for accepting the job of
Japa n ese puppet-ruler.
Stories like that of the failure of the
motor-car works at Nijni Novgorod to pro-
duce cars are intended to prove, not that tin
system of appointing good Reds to the best
positions is rotten, but that a clean-up of
persons of dubious political opinions is
nearly due. The Langsters have declared
for secession from the Commonwealth and
the creation of a Red State, which is rather
like a flea trying to he an elephant. If their
plan comes off it is presumed that neither
ox-Railway Commissioner Cleary nor De
Groot will write unpleasant letters to the
press, which will he owned and supervised
and censored by the State.
Talk of writing off £15,000,000 or
£20,000,0CX) of Victorian railway capital as lost,
to save interest and reduce the disastrous
deficit, is mere make-believe. If Victoria had
paid for its railways out of revenue it could
write off the whole capital if it. liked. But
it borrowed the lot from private persons
here and abroad, and if it starts writiug off
that means confiscation and having the bailiff
put in. Of course, Victoria or any other
State can write off £15,000,000 or more of
railway debt so long as it writes the same
amount of debt and the annual interest on to
something else, but there isn’t a penny of
real saving in the oft-recommended device.
The Vie. Inspector-General of Prisons re-
ports that the daily average o’f the gaol
population for 1931 was 1292 —the highest
for 36 years. He blames unemployment, and
publishes graphs showing how crime has
invariably been the accompaniment of de-
pressions in the Cabbage Garden. During
the year 205 husbands were imprisoned for
failure to satisfy maintenance orders, but
133 were released by “special authority.”
It was said of N.S.W.’s new Opposition-
leader Stevens that, like the elephant, he
never forgets. Neither does Stevens’s old
enemy Lang, and, like the rogue elephant, h<>
never forgives. Justice McTiernan was one
of the scores of Laborites who jibbed at
Lang’s methods, and he was kicked out of
the Cabinet. Five years later McTiernan
delivers a High Court judgment of which
N.S.W.’s political rogue elephant didn't
approve. Judges can’t be put in the Deten-
tion House as persons deemed to be insane,
but they can be traduced in the journal over
which Lang holds a £13,000 mortgage. This
is what happened to McTiernan, and Lang
is able in consequence to feel once more
that honor has been satisfied.
“Transfer of fixed deposits from N.S.W. to Victoria
continues, and the migration figures tell the same
story. N. S. Wales lost over 9000 people by emigra-
tion last year; Queensland gained over 7000.”
“Hey, don’t go to that Tory’s country.
Remember, I’m for Men before
Money.”
“But you’re losing both.”
Laborite A. K. Wallace, who was recently
appointed a Geelong Harbor Trust Commis-
sioner, has decided not to renominate for
Albert Park seat in Vic. Leg. Assembly.
From 1921 to 1927 and from 1929 to the
dissolution the other day Wallace held Albert
Park, but he is disinclined for any further
political scrimmaging.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Verri”: The egg-and-butter man com-
plained that business was bad. “I suppose
some of your customers are away on holi-
days,” I said. “Too right,” he assented
gloomily. “Forty pounds of butter and
twenty dozen eggs were away last week.”
“Mudurup” : Some of the looters of jewel-
lers’ shops in the Auckland riot repented, and
returned wristlet watches and other articles
to their rightful owners by registered post. .1
suppose it was the amateurs at the con-
tagious game of pillage whose consciences
pricked them. The last excursion in the
direction of shop-looting in my remembrance
occurred early in the war, when anyone with
a German or near-German or German-look-
ing name was liable to find himself violently
unpopular at a moment’s notice. This hos-
tility culminated in Perth one boisterous
night when several shop windows were
broken and their contents made free with.
One of the victims —who complained bitterly
but unavailingly that he .was no German but
a Polish Jew—was a restaurant-keeper,
whose windows presented a brave show of
expensive boxes of chocolate and other deli-
cacies. Exuberant youths, burning with mis-
directed patriotism, fell upon these spoils
with avidity, and handed them over to recep-
tive girl friends until a clean sweep had been
made of this brand of merchandise. They
weren’t professional looters, obviously, and
they may have felt a little sorry for their pre-
cipitancy later, especially when the vic-
tim was explaining to the press that he
was a citizen of an Allied nation, not an
enemy one ; but I doubt if any of those dc
luxe chocolate-boxes came back. Chocolates
aren’t like wristlet watches.
“S.T.S.” : Adelaide has found the Perfect
Lover—and doesn’t know what to do with
him. Marrying at. 20, he lost his bride after
two months, and took poison, ineffectually,
on her grave. “Bound over to keep the peace
for a year” in February, he waited only till
April to be found in agony—but not past
remedial measures—with deposits of strych-
nine hidden all over the place. “It’s no
use,” said the poor chap ; “I cau’t live with-
out her.” A puzzled Court has sent him to
a friendly “institution,”
“C.Q.” : The growing impression that the
architecture of the Shrine of Remembrance
in Melbourne is not a true expression of
national ideals gets considerable confirmation
from a statement of the designer (P. B.
Hudson) himself. The idea, he says, was
to make the monument of materials that
would last, if necessary, to eternity; so a
steel frame was rejected for a great rein-
forced concrete girder, which will span the
whole width of the Shrine, and so relieve the
weight from the dark marble columns that
a clear space of three inches would be pos-
sible between them and the superstructure.
Why, then, have the columns? Columns
were used by the Greeks functionally to sup-
port weight, because they were the best
device available to the knowledge, skill and
materials of the time. To use them other-
wise is to reduce them to mere decoration.
They are so used in the “Argus” building,
where they are skied half-way up the struc-
ture and look ridiculous. They are put to
the same debased employment in most of
the latest moving-picture palaces. A modern
architect who understood the true spirit of
the Greeks would, like them, have used
modern materials, like reinforced concrete,
throughout. He would have thought in these
materials and, granted the requisite genius,
worn Id have produced a structure whose
originality would have stimulated the
national imagination and started an archi-
tectural renaissance.
“C. Coral” (Thursday Island) : Jacky
keeps pace with the march of civilisation.
When I was visiting the mainland the other
day an abo. stopped me, obviously with a
request to proffer. I expected the customary
“Please you gibbit tabacca,” or a petition
for a box of matches; but Jacky held out a
small medicine bottle and ingratiatingly
asked, “Could you spare me a drop of ben-
zine, please? I want it for my patent pipe-
lighter.” He went off quite happy. After
all, there isn’t nearly so much energy
required for applying a benzine-lighting appa-
ratus as there is in working up sparks from
a couple of firesticks.
“Lex”: A resident of Waliroonga com-
plained recently in the “S. M. Herald” that
two policemen, who said they were “acting
under instructions from headquarters,” pulled
him up, and asked, amongst other imperti-
nent questions:—
Is this your car? Are you the driver? What is
the number? What is your name and address?
Have you got your license? Are you a member of
the New Guard? Are you going to the New Guard
.meeting ? i
They had only a legal right to ask for
his license. When Captain de Groot was
arrested a policeman called him to atten-
tion on the arrival of Inspector Mackay,
and again on the arrival of Mr. Gosling,
He saw both laughed and con-
tinued to .sit down and smoke—and nothing
happened. Certainly the police charged him
later with being insane, but that was a
different count. What it means is that some
police chiefs arc trying to saddle N. S.
Wales with droit administratif, which, as
Dicey says, "is opposed to all British ideas."
Under this system a policeman, for example,
can "commit acts in excess of his legal
LONG THOUGHTS.
“Mum,, do you think it is bad for a girl’s vanity to stand in front of the mirror?”
“That’s hard to say: but I expect it’s still good for a girl's imagination."
authority” ( exces de pouvoirs) and get away
with it. Every Digger had opportunities
during the war of seeing droit administratif
in operation, and if this form of official
tyranny is not to get a footing in Lang’s
State the Diggers, who know just what it
leads to, will have to keep their eyes open.
“Pom” : The Aussie worker licks the world
in one respect, anyhow, i.c., as a holiday-
taker. In London we got Christmas Day,
Boxing Day, Good B’riday, Easter Monday,
Whit Monday and the August Bank Holi-
day. Then I came to Sydney and proceeded
to collect all the above, and in addition New
Year’s Day, Anniversary Day, Anzac Day,
King’s Birthday and Eight-hour Day. Bakers
get an extra holiday every month, and I rarely
visit the Quay on a week day in summer with-
out finding there’s a Butchers’ or Railway-
men’s picnic, or an L.O.L. or Hibernian cele-
bration on. Thousands get three weeks
every year on full pay under Court awards,
and tens of thousands don’t work on
Saturday mornings. A curious thing about
all this compulsory unemployment is that it.
adds enormously to the other kind of unem-
ployment. For example, in London there
are few restrictions on restaurant em-
ployees, the result being that waiters,
porters, etc., as well as chefs , have to be
imported from abroad to meet the demand.
In Sydney 95 per cent, of the restaurants
are dead after 7.30 p.m.. and restaurant
jobs are proportionately scarce.
“Rajasthan” : The cabled story of how a
widow had “gone through the flames” and
established her claim to be
"sati,” a faithful wife, in Cen-
tral India, reads oddly beside
other messages from Hind tell-
ing of modern political aspira-
tions and the like. Only cer-
tain of the higher Hindu
castes, notably the blue-
blooded warrior Rajputs, fol-
lowed the custom which,
though long since forbidden by
the Raj, is probably still
common enough in the remoter
corners of India, especially in
the Native States. It was a
voluntary business. The widow
was not forced, though she
had the dreadful alternative
of Hindu widowhood. But by
publicly evidencing her faith-
fulness to her lord's memory
she also made sure that his next transmi-
gration would be a happy one, and her own
as well.
“X.S.” : The lady who unsuccessfully sued
a London paper for doubting her psychic
powers staggered Judge and Court by going
"under control” in the witness-box. And Sir
Oliver Lodge, inventor of a lightning guard
for cables and discoverer of many important
physical truths, gave such precise details
about the after-life as that soldiers who passed
over during the war wanted to go on fighting
and had to be calmed with whisky and
cigarettes. The idea of whisky and
cigarettes being used to create a pacifist
mentality has never been considered on the
mundane plane, so the psychic sphere seems
to be more civilised in that respect. Other-
wise, as far as most mediums’ evidence goes,
it appears to be inhabited by noodles. Even
great philosophers talk nonsense when they
speak from the astral plane, and Plato has
added nothing to his wisdom after 2000 years’
residence in the Elysian Fields. A dreary
similarity infects the utterances of mediums
all over the world. The only bit of originality
that I have observed for many years was pro-
vided at a Melbourne seance the other day,
vyheu a medium told a group .of awed rae-
ing enthusiasts, including some well-known
bookies, that she was in touch with Phar
Lap. The famous animal had acquired the
ability to express his thoughts, which showed
timt he was auite as sentimental as his
human worshippers. For the sake of his
native land, he said, he deeply regretted his
untimely demise, as he had been looking for-
ward to defending Australia's honor on
many an American course.
* * * *
, ~ TT ~ .
Thormanby : The Holdsworthy murders
(B. 20/4/’32) were attended, as these
things always are, by a multitude of sug-
gestions for the capture of the murderer.
all more or less asinine. The limit was
, , , ~
struck by an individual who urged that
the police engaged in searching the clo. t
an n d tangled tea-tree scrub where the suspect
was , supposed to be JYJ s^ ou (
bloodhounds ! The bloodhound, as
far as Australia is_ concerned, is a show dog
P u F a and simple; in any case he would be
? alt e. useless in thick and tangled cover,
JJ 8 , bmld and me coat lave a ways con-
hels T runner ‘of *an Sat^sSM
™ h ri “] S y as* a® gmf dog Tn’Australia," Th m
k j/ specia it y bred for investigating
thickets to most other breeds
f d Any man lying up within a hnnr
dre(J * ards 0 / him , lm iess the wind was very
antagonistic, would be spotted at once, leav-
]ng f o ot scen (- s ou t 0 f it entirely.
THE SKILL OF WOMEN.
“Well, you know, we’re as God fashioned,
us. Ye can’t make a silk purse out o'
a sow’s ear.”
“No. but I've mads many a silk stocking
out of an old dog.”
Ormonde Butler writes
“El Tel/’ (B. 13/4/’32), apropos tile Soudan Con-
tingent, quotes General Stewart as saying that he
“advanced on Tamai and, finding' it completely deserted,
withdrew without opposition after burning the town
to ashes.” Such statement is not in accordance
with facts. I was there, as a sergeant, and here
quote from my diary under date of Good Friday,
April 3 (not 4, as stated by “El Teb”) ; “Marched
in hollow square towards village of Tamai, passed
through village, which was deserted. Marched over
hills towards Taniaieb, Arabs seen filling in wells.
Advance face of square fired on them, enemy replied.
Private Downey shot through foot; Private Harrison
wounded near shoulder. I was within a few feet
of both. Several Imperial men wounded. Two
shells fired into enemy’s position, which silenced them.
Retire sounded. Passing through the village of
Tamai the huts were burnt. Marched to Baker’s
zareba, the scene of a late fight between the English
and Arabs.” There are still a hundred or so who
can verify the foregoing.
IN SPIRIT LAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Justice McCardie, summing up in the Morris
v. ‘Daily Mail’ libel case, said that passages in Sir
Oliver Lodge’s book detailing certain messages from
disearnate spirits implied that the great spaces
surrounding the world contained manufacturers of
whisky and cigars.”
The spirit world, as Doyle and co. portray it,
The realm beyond the bounds of time and
space,
Has always struck me, though I’m loath to
say it,
As the reverse of an attractive place.
It sends a shiver down my spinal column ;
It hints a dreariness that none may dodge;
But, oh ! it isn’t half so sad and solemn,
The spirit world of Lodge.
You'd think, if you may trust the dreamy
medium,
When contact she establishes with whom
You wish, there’s little to relieve the tedium
Of life eternal t’otherside the tomb.
However oft, ’mid strained and eager tension,
She lifts the curtain and the door unbars
To the unknown, you never hear a mention
Of whisky or cigars.
Stead’s “Julia,” subject of his glad hosan-
nahs.
About celestial doings told him lots,
But not a word relating to Havanas
Her artless messages conveyed—or “spots.”
Vague generality too oft suffices
For these communiques from friends
deceased,
But Lodge has more reliable advices,
So I believe “t least.
Here’s luck! And when this life terrestrial
passes
It’s still permissible to hope we may
Foregather yet again to clink our glasses
And sink a rum upon the Milky Way,
Or mingle in some glad celestial beano
Hai'd by the Southern Cross or Greater
Bear,
Serenely confident that there will be no
Crook beer or spirits there.
TRIED IT BOTH WAYS.
BOSS : “I’m afraid we won’t be able to keep
you much longer. You girls ought to
keep your eyes open for young men.”
FLAPPER: “I’ve tried that, sir. I’ve tried
closing them, too.”
Who knows? But anyhow the mere reflec-
tion
A pertain hope inspires and comfort yields.
Give me, if I’m permitted a selection.
Valhalla’s halls before Elysian fields.
Though Judge McCardie finds the forecast
savor
Of unrealities by reason banned,
I rise to register a vote in favor
Of Lodge’s spirit land.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


From Sydney “Sun”:—
A resident of Pymble was walking home, when
a ear driven at a high speed overtook her. It stopped
with a grinding of brakes. A man leaped out. His
face was masked.
“Give me your handbag,” he ordered “or I will
shoot you.”
He grabbed) the bag and jumped into the oar, the
engine of which bad been left running, and his
companion drove off rapidly. The bag contained
£1 6s.
The criminals risked sentences for highway
robbery, which carries one of the longest
AS THE LAW KNOWS IT.
“Sh'all right, Constable. I drew hund'ed poundzh inzer State
lottery. Warmer howzher wife’ll take it?”
"Well, old man, if she’s like mine she’ll take it in one lump.”
terms in the calendar for 13s. each, minus
car expenses, cost of masks, etc. And they
did comparatively well. The average woman’s
handbag contains a powder-puff, lipstick,
the unstamped letter she had intended to
post, a few used tram-tickets and between
sixpence and a shilling. It was revealed in
a Sydney court the other day that, of nine
handbags stolen in parks during the month,
only one was claimed by the owner to have
contained more than a shilling in money.
The London “Kinchin Lay,” which con-
sisted in robbing children of the family milk
money, was big business compared to Syd-
ney’s Bag Plan, and, of course, it was much
safer. A tigress bereft of her young isn’t
more vocal than a woman bereft of her hand-
bag, and a pursued malefactor rarely escapes
in N. S. Wales—unless the pursuing is con-
fined to policemen.
* * * *
“S.M.L.E.”: “Shep” complains of the in-
creased weight of the new army rifle, but
overlooks that the extra seven ounces in the
barrel is offset by the reduction in weight of
the new bayonet, which is about Bin. in
length. Admittedly the P. 8.1. have a lot
to carry, but the entrenching tool went soon
after the war finished, and the pack will
hold less than it did in 1914-18. Lorries are
provided to carry a lot of the gear that we
“humped around France.” As for the sneer
at “brass-hats,” whatever may have been the
case in 1914 “Shep” can rest assured that
the people responsible for the decision as
to what the Australian soldier has to carry
have either carried it themselves or led the
men who carried it. Lightweight machine-
guns or automatic rifles are always an
attractive item, but the individual weapon
offfhe soldier must be able to stand up to
rough conditions, and so far nothing but
the rifle will do that. The extra seven
ounces is needed in the barrel, the present
one being too light for accurate shooting.
“X.N.0.”: I don’t think “Shep” (B.
20/4/’32) should deprecate too much the
value of rapid rifle fire in war-time. Were
not the Germans held up at Mons and the
Marne because the Old Contemptibles fired
so rapidly from the magazine that the enemy
thought they had been misinformed as to the
number of machine-guns available in French’s
Army?
❖ * * :'fi
“R.V.”: Old cable-hands will raise their
eyebrows at the way the old Eastern
Extension’s Sydney cable was transferred
from Wellington to Auckland the other day.
The old method of laying a shore end was
to run a line ashore with boats, which often
came to a sticky end on a reef. Then the
line was used to haul in the great steel-
armored wire. By the time the operation
was over the ocean was usually littered with
boats and buoys and the air above it was
blue with profanity. At Auckland an aero-
plane picked up the line from shore and
dropped it into the hands of the cable steam-
er’s crew waiting outside the breakers in
a launch. The ship was the Recorder, which
for 20 years has been laying and repairing
cables around Australia and in “the East. ’
“C.Q.”: Regard for Melbourne’s most
ancient monuments, the old gum-trees, is not
extinct (B. 6/4/’32). When the children’s
dental clinic was designed in the Domain
a big specimen stood in the way. Instead
of removing it the builders constructed the
overhang of the roof around it.
* * * *
“Runa”: Something slightly new in the
robbery line was tried in Auckland (M.L.)
the other day, when a woman shopkeeper
was approached by a respectable-looking
young man who arranged to rent the upper
part of her premises. He arrived that even-
ing with a young woman whom he intro-
duced as his wife, and the pair took pos-
session. About midnight the man came down
and told the elderly landlady, who was still
up, that his wife had been taken ill; he
begged her to attend to the patient while
he summoned a doctor. The landlady hur-
ried upstairs, where she was immediately
gripped by the sick lady, half-throttled and
left unconscious. When she recovered she
found the shop and till had been looted. The
allegedly sick lady, judging by her grip,
was a man.
“Old Q.” : Queenslanders interested in that
sort of thing have recently been disputing
over the origin of
the blue “Maltese”
cross, which, on a
white circle and
surmounted by a
crown, is the badge
of Ban a n aland.
One authority—a
rural dean, no less
—asserted that it
was adopted by
Queensland’s first
Governor, Sir
George Bowen, in
honor of his lovely
wife, Diamantina,
who hailed from
the lonian Islands,
the cross being the
badge of that then
semi - independent
community. An-
other expert refutes
this with the asser-
tion that the cross
was first adopted
by Governor Cairns,
nine years after
Bowen’s departure,
and quotes a “Gov-
ernment Gazette”
in proof. In any
case, the badge
isn’t a Maltese
cross at all, but one
of many heraldic
hybrids evolved
from it. The true
Maltese cross was
granted to the
Knights Hospital-
lers of St. John of
Jerusalem in 1121,
long before they
settled in Malta. It
was and is an
eight-pointed white
, cross on a black ground, and quite unlike
any of its modern imitations.
“Jonathan Wild” The latest knock-back
to the canard that the climate of the Aus-
tralian tropics is adverse to initiative comes
from Darwin. A resident of that isolated
seaport found that his vegetable garden had
been robbed and offered a reward of £5 for
conviction of the thief. Another local citizen
laid an information against his own infant
son and claimed the reward. The youngster,
who owned up, threw himself on the mercy
of the Court and was let off with an admoni-
tion on account of his tender years. Dad
pouched the fiver. The owner of the stolen
vegetables is wondering what he got out of it.
“Ansonian”: A 20-year-old Horsham
(Vic.) girl bought nearly £2OO worth of
finery from a Melbourne dressmaker, obtain-
ing credit on the score of being the
daughter of “one of the biggest imple-
ment-makers in Victoria.” But when it
turned out that she was a minor with-
out any resources of her own, and that the
father wouldn’t pay, the transaction
finished in the County Court, where Wil-
liams, J., made some mordant remarks on
the terms that might be applied to obtain-
ing goods in such a manner. What particu-
larly and not unnaturally upset his Honor
was that the girl appeared in court in some of
the very clothes that formed the subject of the
action; “the least he would have expected
was that the parents would have sent the
things back instead of allowing the girl to
come into court flaunting them.” Finally
defendant’s counsel undertook that certain
things which presumably hadn’t been worn,
or might still be regarded as being as good
as new, would be returned; as for the rest,
WOMEN’S TRIALS.
“I agree with this feller here—he says only young girls should try to represent the
morning of life in their dress.”
“ Yes, of course. And compel us older women to represent Eve.”
judgment was entered for a mere £ll odd,
his Honor pointing out that the law only
made the parents of an infant responsible
for “necessaries” and that articles like
seven-guinea nightdresses and 255. hand-
kerchiefs could hardly be brought under
that head. What is a necessary in cases like
these is determined by the infant’s position
in life. There is a record of a decision in
the English courts where a gold latchkey was
held to be a necessary and not a mere luxury.
❖ ❖ * $
“Edee”: A recent reference to Henry
Lawson’s hammer-and-nails hobby reminded
me of a weird and wonderful armchair he
made from a flour-barrel while he was
staying with us in Wellington (M.L.) over
30 years ago. My father had brought the
poet home during one of his extra lean
seasons, and the chair was one of his returns
for our hospitality. It was a somewhat
rickety affair, the result of a lot of pottering
about the back yard. The lid was fixed in
half-way down the barrel, the front half of
which was cut away, while the curved
back made quite a comfortable seat. As a
final touch, it was given a coat of grey
paint, the only sort available. I still recall
Henry’s modest pride in liis handiwork.
“Blackadder” : Busselton (W.A.) is having
a centenary, and various relics of the old
colonial days
brought out by the
pioneering families
have come to light
for the occasion,
including swords
that were drawn at
Waterloo and duel-
ling pistols of 'the
“same which I shot
Captain Marker"
era. Among less
exotic curios there
is mention of an
iron and leather
mask, with an
attachment of
chain mail, alleged
on dubious autho-
rity to have been
the one-time pro-
perty of an outlaw
named “Moondyne
J o e.” Westralia
was never afflicted
with a bushranger
of any consequence,
the trade offering
inadequate attrac-
tions in a country
where there were
no gold escorts to
stick up or coach
passengers to be
relieved of fat
wallets, as in the
halcyon days of
bushranging on the
eastern side.
Escaped convicts
there were, of
course, but they
seldom got far, and
there was little
chance of their de-
veloping into Dick
Turpins or “Star-
lights.” Still.
“Moondyne Joe” had some local reputation,
deserved or otherwise, and a few legends
still linger about him.
❖ $ * *
“Lord Luvus”: Melbourne papers have
been featuring a distribution of certificates
for continuous attendance to State-school
paragons. There were 400 of these who
hadn’t missed a day in three years, and a
uumber who hadn’t missed a day in five
years; but the laurel wreath was carried
away by one Myrtle Symons, a Port Mel-
bourne pupil, who started school at six and
has just left off at 14 without having to
present a single excuse to her proud teachers.
Very meritorious, of course, yet there must
have been dozens of events happening in the
outside world during those eight years of
sehoolgoing that would have been far more
educational than the knowledge stuffed into
the girl’s head per medium of the orthodox
curriculum. Moreover, it is a rare family
that doesn’t have a case of ’flu or some other
infectious complaint during a period like
that. The chances are that Myrtle’s impres-
sive record was obtained at the expense of
many a cold in the nose contracted from her
by her less conscientious mates.
“0.R.”: The morality campaign by the
French bishop which lias led to “football
matches in Brittany being played in trous-
ers” (B. 20/4/’32) has staggered quite a
lot of people, who seem to doubt whether
such a game can be properly played in such
a garb. Yet it is not so many years since
it was so played at the public schools
which were the nurseries of football. I can
remember my own time at Rugby when at
least four boys out of five turned out for
football attired exactly the same as for
cricket, in spotless white flannel pants. The
reasons had no connection with those
SPEAKING FROM EXPERIENCE.
THE BRIDE: “But don’t you think that after marriage a woman
should stop thinking about -men?”
ELDRRLY FRIEND: “Well, I can answer for it that my wife did so
in at least one case.”
advanced by the Bishop of Quimper, who
sticks out for more decorous concealment of
the human anatomy; they simply denoted
the sharp line of distinction between the
“caps,” the favored few who had gained the
precious privilege of wearing knickers and
stockings, and the hoi polloi, the undistin-
guished herd who had yet to win this equi-
valent of knighthood’s spurs. Nothing suf-
fered except the white pants, which were apt
to become muddy and grimed in no time.
Even that was good for trade, as represented
by the laundries.
MISLAID IN SUBURBIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve hoped and prayed with all my heart
To play
One day
A tragic part,
Or start
A war like that of yore
’Twixt Greeks and Trojan men,
But oh! my only war is when
The neighbors all agog
Complain
"Missus, your wretched dog
Attacked our fowls again.”
How I have prayed
To be the kind
They take in loot,
The victim of a Sabine raid;
Or find
Asps planted in the fruit;
Or be concerned
In tragedies of Love and Hate —
Of blasted Hopes and Woman spurned.
Alas ! I only contemplate
(Too late)
The pie-crust burned.
But yet, in spite
Of lack of right
Environment, I still believe
That neither Helen, Cleopat.,
Nor any other dame like that
Had anything on me.
It makes me sad:
I grieve
To see
The dramas that I might have had.
Too bad!
è
LAUREL GADEN MILLS.


é
THE TOUCH OF A FINGER....
removes these Yindow Screens from sight/
VISUALISE a Roller Blind, made in a specially
zinc coated steel wire, rust proof in all
weather, raised or lowered with a touch of the
finger, and you have a conception of the
Australian-made B.R.G. ROLSCREEN.
Designed to fit snugly on the inside of the win-
dow. the B.R.G. ROLSCREEN with neutral toned
grey wire, gives no obstruction to the vision, and
allows a beautiful window with attractive curtains
its fullest effect. The ability to adjust the
B.R.G. ROLSCREEN at will, makes window
cleaning simple. A definite convenience after the
work required to take down and put back the
dirty frames of the usual wire window screen!
Casement windows, too can be effectively screened with B.R.G. ROLSCREENS, which are supplied in widths from
11 inches to 61 inches and to any height.
For complete details and prices * tall
on or write to —
Melb .: Gollin & Co. Pty* Ltd.
Adelaide : Elder Smith Co. Limited.
Perth: The Structural Eng. Co. of
W.A. .Limited.
Sydney: Gollin 16 Co. Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane: Dyne ft Co. Ltd.
Wellington, N. Z.: Derbyshire’s 16 Co.,
John Duthie ft Co. Ltd.
Dunedin, N.Z.: Donald Stuart 16 Co.
B.R.G.
ROLSCREENS
(Patented throughout the World)
Manufactured by
Australian Reinforced Concrete Eng. Co. Pty. Ltd.,
430 CHANCERY LANE. MELBOURNE. 'CI.
14 SPRING STREET. SYDNEY.
The sketch at the right indicates the
fitting of the B.R.G. ROLSCREEN.
The metal box containing the floating
spring roller is hidden in the top of
the window frame, harmonising with
the woodwork. The screen itself runs
in metal guides and owing to the
spring tension will come back into
position, even if given a bump, which
would tear the usual wire window
screen.
There is no limit to the life of tho
B.R.G. ROLSCREEN.
ê
R
\
B
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Victor Saywell. victim, with his wife (appa-
rently injured beyond hope of recovery),
of Sydney’s latest horror, a hideous
and so far inexplicable crime, was one of
the sons of “Lucky” Saywell, an investor
whose enterprises mostly turned to fortune.
One of them was the Rockdale-Lady Robin-
son’s Beach tramway. His father’s profitable
speculations in land and city property made
Victor Saywell a very rich man, although
never ostentatious about his wealth. He was
a solicitor, whose business was largely on
the estate side, and a keen supporter of
sport; he had owned some racehorses in his
time and was closely interested in the later
cult of greyhound racing.
Gov.-Gen. Isaacs entered public life 40
years ago last week, so his G.C.M.G. came
at an appropriate time. Bogong (n.-e. Vie.)
elected him to : the Leg. Assembly. Nine
months later he was Solicitor-General; and
he had two terms as Attorney-General before
beginning his Federal Parliamentary career,
which lasted 5| years. There followed 25
years as a High Court Judge before his pre-
sent job was conferred on him. The G.-G.
might also count as public service the five
years he spent as junior teacher and assist-
ant-teacher up Beechworth way between ’7O
and ’75.
W. A. Redmond, whose death was men-
tioned in a recent cable, was the only son of
the late John Redmond by his first wife, who
was one of the Daltons, of Orange (N.S.W.).
Redmond, jun., sat with his father in the
House of Commons for many years, and con-
tinued as a Dail member on the establish-
ment of the Free State, but he never
measured up to the paternal standard as a
speaker. He came out to Australia before
the war to see his mother’s people. In the
war he was a captain in the Irish Guards;
his uncle William, another Parnellite of
note (he married another Dalton girl),
reached major’s rank in the Connaught
Rangers before being killed.
.T. P. Jones and E. L. Kiernan, M’.s.L.C.,
who left the Vic. Labor Ministry because
they would not give up full adherence to
the Premiers’ plan, have other jobs to go to.
.lones is the head of a tailoring co. and has
pastoral holdings at Benalla and Kan-
J. P. JONES, M.L.C. He has resigned
from the Vic. Labor Government—he
was Minister of Works and leader of
the Leg. Council —because it has weak-
ened on the Premiers’ Plan.
umbra. Kiernan runs a furniture con-
cern in Smith-street, Collingwood. Jones
led for the Hogans in the Upper House, and
liis personal influence there helped to get
through proposals that sometimes seemed to
have only a 10-to-l chance. _ Beckett’s
defeat left only five Laborites in the Leg.
Council.
Wilfrid Greene, K.C., who is leading for the
respondents in the Privy Council case that
is tq decide the fate of the N.S.W. Leg.
Council, is counted the foremost pleader at
the English Bar. His services are in extra-
ordinary demand; already his annual fees
are said to substantially exceed what either
Carson or Simon earned when they devoted
their whole time to practice, and Carson
and Simon each put up a record in his day.
And Greene is but 48, and he was not
called to the Bar till he was 25. Further,
the four war years kept him out of the
courts, for he served in Flanders, France and
Italy, finishing a major with an M.C. and
several other decorations. He took silk 10
years ago.
Conspicuous on Anzac Day was Brigadier-
General McNicoll, M.H.R. for Werriwa
(N.S.W.), who was at the Landing, and was
the first A.I.F. officer to get the D.S.O. An
early president of the Goulburn branch of the
Diggers’ League, McNicoll worked hard for
Brig-General McNICOLL, M.H.R. for
Werriwa, who was at the Landing.
the erection of the fine local war memorial.
An ardent musician, he welded the Goulburn
Liedertafel orchestra into a body which has
a high reputation, and he was headmaster or
Goulburn Presbyterian Ladies’ College till
politics called.
Walter Leitch’s term as Vic. Agent-
Genera] will expire on June 30, and Premier
Hogan is credited with having just resisted
an offer of the job—if it was really offered.
Forty years ago Premier Munro was more
pliable when Shiels wanted to succeed to the
Premiership. Since then no Vic. First Minis-
ter has relinquished his post to become envoy
in London. Duncan Gillies had been out
of office three years when J. B. Patterson
induced him in 1893 to take the A.-G.-sliip.
But Graham Berry was joint head of the
Service-Berry Coalition Ministry when he
accepted the London job in 1886.
The new Consul-General for France, M.
Edgar Dussap, who arrives next month,
comes direct from the Paris Foreign Office.
He was in the Consular service before the
Great War; his experiences in that regard go
back to the Balkan War of 1912-13, when he
was stationed in Greece and Bulgaria. lie
is an accomplished linguist, and his wife is a
well-known French author who writes under
the pen-name of Guy Chantepleure.
Geoffrey Burgoyne, one of Westralia’s
best-known journalists, who has been man-
aging-editor of the city’s evening paper, the
"Daily News,” for some years, is returning
to his old job of leader-writer on the “West
Australian,” a position he held for 15 years.
His father was a well-known South Austra-
lian politician of other days; he had a brief
taste of office in the Cockburn Ministry of
’B9-’9O, and an even hriefer one in the Solo-
mon Cabinet of ’99, and he retained his Seat
as a member till a great age.
Morewood Dowsett, who has been investi-
gating Australia and is now on the wallaby
for Japan, is one of the world’s best-known
natural-history writers and a mighty hunter
withal. With his travelling and hunting in
many lands he has; sandwiched in some un-
usual interests; like George Borrow, he has
been associated with the British and Foreign
Bible Society. Born in England, he went
to Maoriiand as a young civil servant close
on 50 years ago, though to' look at him you
would never guess it. Next year he hopes
t 0 be back again in what is probably the
last of the big-game shooter’s hunting-grounds
—East Africa.
Adelaide Stock Exchange, after the long
presidency of W. B. Carr, is going in for
quick changes. Walter Gurner, holder for
only two years, has handed over to Andrew
Young, with Andrew Muecke “vice” and pre-
sumable successor.
John Harold Hammond, K.C., who died
at Killara (Sydney) last week after a
lengthy illness, was a Bathurst native; his
father was an M.L.A. in his day. The son
made the law his life work, though he found
time for 17 years’ service as an alderman of
Ashfield Council and filled the mayoral chair
several times. H'e was called to the Bar in
1898, where he soon built up a reputation
for himself as an exceptionally sound and
well-equipped pleader, while for 20 years he
was Challis Lecturer in Law at Sydney Uni.
Hammond was chairman of several commis-
sions, and three years ago he was an acting-
judge of the Supreme Court for several
months. H'e was but 56.
William Percy McEllione, who passed out
in Sydney at 60 last week, came of a family
that owned considerable city property and
took an energetic hand in civic affairs, llis
father was John McElhone, who sat in the
Assembly, with a break or two, from ’75 to
the late ’nineties, and found time to be an
alderman as well. The son took to the law
and also became an alderman in due course;
he had 15 years of it, and was Lud Mayor
in 1022-23. A keen spoilsman and admin-
istrator of sporting activities, he was chair-
man of the N.S.W. Cricket Board of Control
when its authority was challenged by various
leading players a little over 20 years ago',
and later was chairman for a period of the
Australian Board of Control.
Two cases of three generations of parsons
are on record in Maoriiand. Anglican Bishop
Williams, of Waiapu, is the third of his
line to occupy the episcopal see; his pioneer
grandfather and his father were his two
predecessors. Rev. A. C. Lawry, retired
president of the Methodists, is a son of the
first-born Australian parson of that denomi-
nation ; his grandfather was associated with
the Rev, Samuel Leigh in expounding the
Word.
Vic. County Court Judge Billy Williams,
who delivered himself of some caustic
remarks in the case where an “infant” was
sued by a Collins-street modiste for £197
worth of clothes, is regarded by pressmen as
a fairly reliable source of copy. He retains
a good deal of the sprightliness which char-
acterised him when he was M.L.A. for St.
Kilda after George Turner transferred to
the Reps.
James G. Moseley, just turned 85, is the
oldest member of the S. Aus. House of
Assembly, being 18 months older than Lance-
lot Stirling, President of the Leg. Council.
Moseley owned Yardea. in the Gawler
Ranges, and other big pastoral holdings in
his time. He was the first to introduce wire-
netting fencing in the north of the State.
11. W. Osborne, general manager of the
Western District Co-operative Produce Co.
(Mclb.), who has been appointed a consul-
tant for dairying interests at the Ottawa
conference, travelled the Inky Way for 15
years. He served principally the Warrnam-
bool “Standard” and the “Argus” ; later lie
was secretary of Warrnambool Shire
Council.
Steadily working round the States, Con-
gregational parson A. C. Nelson moves from
Hobart to Port Adelaide —where he started
as a boy. Meantime he has had churches
also at West Maitland and Woollahra
(N.S.W.), and has been chairman of the Con-
gregational Union once in Tas. and twice in
N.S.AV.
GODFREY MORGAN , Queensland’s Minis-
ter of Railways. He announces another
cut in fares and freight rates.
Inspector James Farrell, of Brisbane, who
has just put his uniform into mothballs
with the arrival of the 60 years’ age limit,
was a notable figure in the Queensland police,
which he entered as a constable 34 years
ago. In later days he was transferred to
the C. I. Branch, and went steadily up the
ladder till he reached the rank of inspector
in 1925. The inspector has done duty in
nearly every part of Queensland in his time,
including the North and Far West.
Ex-Speaker Thomas Walker, who has
held a place of bis own in Westralian
public life for a quarter of a century
past, is seriously ill in Perth Hospital.
Walker, who was born at Preston, Lanca-
shire. some 75 years ago, was well known <n
Sydney in the ’eighties and ’nineties; his
activities as a public lecturer helped him to
become M.L.A. for Northumberland and he
held the seat for a couple of terms. In the
late ’nineties lie moved westward, and after
TOMMY WALKER, one time M.L.A. for
Northumberland (N.S.W.), and later
M.L.A. for Kanowna and Labor
Speaker of the Westralian Assembly.
He is reported seriously ill in Perth.
some years of teaching elocution and editing
Sunday papers he secured the Labor_ nomina-
tion for the goldfields electorate of Kanowna.
which he has held ever since 1906. Late in
life he read law and made it fit in with poli-
tics so well that on the very same day that
he was admitted to practice lie became
Attorney-General in a Labor Ministry. Sub-
sequent Labor Ministries relegated him to
the Speakership, where he was more at home.
As a debater and Labor partisan he belonged
to an almost vanished type, florid, emotional
and barnstormingly eloquent.
Canon Garland, who will succeed the
newly-consecrated Bishop Dixon, of Brisbane
as Rural Dean of the diocese, is one. of the
most widely-known Anglican padres in Aus-
tralia, with interests that run far beyond ordi-
nary church matters ; he has done some notable
work of late in connection with the settle-
ment of the unemployed on small holdings.
His labors in the vineyard began at Grafton
(N.S.W.) 40 years ago; after some incum-
bencies in Westralia and North Queensland
he settled in Brisbane in 1907. He served
as a military chaplain in the war, and was
prominent in the recruiting campaigns.
Among his incidental distinctions he is a
knight of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem,
an honor conferred by the Patriarch of the
Holy City, and he is also Warden in Aus-
tralia of the Order of King Charles the
Martyr.
“C.Q.”: Old Bishop Moorhouse must have
been an uncomfortable sort of realist in his
day. During a severe drought in Victoria he
was asked to prepare a special form of
prayer for rain. He suggested that the
people would be better advised to do some-
thing for themselves by irrigation, instead
of beseeching the Almighty to send rain as
soon as they began to suffer. The last of
his successors to succumb to the popular
demand was the late Harrington Lees. The
present incumbent, Archbishop Head, hasn’t
been called upon yet to intercede for rain,
though he has framed a prayer for relief
from the present drought in the financial
sphere.
“Beemax”: The brothers of the late
Charles Lindeman (B. 30/3/’32) were
Arthur, Sidney, Herbert and Henry. Their
father, Dr. Lindeman, had been a medico in
Mudgee (N.S.W.) ; he left there in the
’thirties and started the original Linde-
man vineyard 1 at Cawarra, near Gres-
ford, on the Upper Paterson. Some mem-
bers of the family are still living there. Dr.
Lindeman’s eldest daughter, Harriet, married
Herbert Harington Brown, of Colstoun, who
represented the district in Parliament for
many years; he died recently in Sydney at
the age of 90.


THE NEW FAMILY INCOME
LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY.
Described as “the most significant and out-
standing contribution to Life Insurance since
the establishment of Life Insurance itself.’’
The M.L.C. is specially featuring this policy
in Australia.
It provides a regular monthly income to the
family during the years it is most required.
The annual Income to the family after the
death of the Assured is 15 per cent, of the
Sum Assured, and is payable in monthly instal-
ments during the balance of a period of years
selected by the assured.
The Capital Sum assured is paid also to the
dependants when the Income period is concluded.
Write for full particulars to
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited.
ARTHUR EEDY, WM. J. BLOOMFIELD,
Managing Director. General Secretary.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World's Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital .. .. .. .. .. £241,341
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . . . . . . £3,500,000
Total Reserves approximately . . . . . . • . . . . £900,000
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . . £500,000
Area Planted . . . . . . . . . . Approx. 130,000 Acres
Bankers; Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong and San Francisco.
EXPLOSIVES
ALX KINDS STOCKED.
Sole Manufacturers of
RENDROCK
Safest, cheapest and most
effective explosive known.
No magazine required.
Forwarded as ordinary
goods by rail or steamer at
usual rates of freight.
Send for Leaflet.
Also suppliers of all classes
of Mining Machinery, Blast-
ing Machines, Tools and
accessories.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED
30-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Mutual Provident Society
Ordinary Department.
Written
Off, or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Depre- to
Income. Claims. penses. ciation. Funds.
Dec., £ £ ' £ £ £
’05.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 ( q 47
Aid to Industrial Department, 12,000 J ’
’lO.. 3,492,096 1,841,184 291,775 36,366 1,322,771
’15.. 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374,595
’20.. 5,634,997 2,688,538 555,863 90,112 2,300,484
'25.. 7,478,871 3,623,206 727,206 112,880 3,015,579
’26.-7,911,325 3,808,764 748,221 125,144 3,229,196
’27.. 8,429,228 4,209,829 799,365 51,902 3,368,132
’28.. 8,872,654 4,383,268 842,804 58,901 3,587,681
’29.. 9,320,824 4,505,820 984,608 238,356 3,592,040
’30.. 9,652,433 4,800,554 1,008.756 471,472 1 ~,, 01fi
Provision for taxation, £237,635 j ’ ’
’31.. 9,470,449 5,616,260 1,222,207 685,149 ) , 46S
Provision for taxation, £69,365 ) ’ ’
Sharp contraction of the national income,
the quick growth of unemployment, extra
bleeding by the Government and statutory
cuts in interest have checked the society’s
development and reduced the earning capa-
city of its funds, of course. But the board’s
treatment of the figures should give policy-
holders a comfortable feeling with regard to
the future, and there are indications of a
turn in the tide.
At the end of Dec. the business in force
(original sums assured, £214,340,676) was
£2,148,186 less than the amount on the books
a year earlier, due to a heavy crop of sur-
renders (£2,050,082, including £373,909 of
bonuses cashed). The slip in the amount of
new business written during the year was
£3,807,931 in the Ordinary (£8,843,510), and
£643,359 in the Industrial branch
(£2,657,324). In the two departments com-
bined net premium income (£7,058,950) fell
away £174,780, due mainly to the surrenders
just referred to; the contraction in in-
terest, etc. (£4,552,046), was £41,837, owing
to cuts in returns from Government and
other securities. Thus the shrinkage in
total income (£11,610,995) was £216,617.
After paying all legitimate claims and exes.,
including an extra £169,635 for taxation
(£702,377), sending £748,815 to the con-
tingency fund (now £2,003,103) and £BO,OOO
to the tax reserve (£350,000) and striking
£lOO,Bll off the book value of premises, etc.,
£2,512.873, or £1,491,633 less than for the
previous year, was added to the Assurance
funds, raising them to £83,296.454 at Dec. 31.
There being no share capital the whole of
the profits belong to policy-holders. The
amount available for distribution each year
is the difference between the assurance fund
and the liability under policy contracts. After
allowing for interim bonuses, etc., these sur-
pluses compare as follows:
Ordinary.* Industrial. Total.
1920.. 1,324,193 39,834 1,364,027
1923.. 1,967,457 115,931 2,083,388
1926.. 2,668,323 193,776 2,862,099
1927.. 2,867,022 203,491 3,070,513
1928.. 3,005,538 230,291 3,235,829
1929.. 2,941,005 211,584 3,152,589
1930.. 2,849,656 226,578 3,076,234
1931 . . 2,468,817 233,998 2,702,815
*Excluding interim bonuses.
The shrinkage last year was due to the sub-
stantial provision for contingencies, growth
in taxation and lighter returns from invest-
ments. Including £23,119 of interim bonuses,
the distribution in the Ordinary department
was still 45.8 p.c. of the premiums on par-
ticipating policies as against 51.8 p.c., 1930;
58.1 p.c., 1928; 30.2 p.c., 1914-18. Moreover,
by setting aside large amounts in addition
to the strong actuarial reserves the manage-
ment is providing for the maintenance of
satisfactory bonuses in the future.
In the Ordinary department the office
allows 18.7 p.c. of the premium income for
exes., etc.. Leaving taxes out of the reckon-
ing, but including contributions to' the stall:
fund, exes, made off with 11 p.c. of last
year’s net premiums as against 11.1 p.c. and
12.7 p.c. in the two preceding years. Of
the year's total income (net premiums plus
net interest), exes, took 6.8 p.c. as against
6.7 p.c. in 1930; few can show better than
that. Thus the management has made hand-
some contributions to bonuses by widening
the margin between the assumed and actual
cost of handling the business.
_ But the Government has narrowed the mar-
gin between the rate of interest which the
office assumes its funds will earn (3 p.c. in
the Ordinary and 31 p.c. in the Industrial
branch) and that actually realised by sting-
ing increases in taxation and legislative cuts
in interest rates. After deducting taxes, last
year’s net interest was 4.69 p.c. on the mean
assurance fund in the Ordinary and 4.7 p.c.
in the Industrial department as against 5.28
p.c. and 5.2 p.c. respectively in 1930; the
figure may contract slightly yet. What the
Government needs to be made to realise is
that it has acted unfairly towards policy-
holders by taxing gross instead of net profits.
The £86,605,767 which the society con-
trolled at Dec. 31 was invested in this way:
1930. p.c. 1931. p.c.
Public securities. £44,540,778 53.5 £45,827,118 52.9
Mortgages .. 20,805,413 25.0 20,849,858 24.1
Loans on policies 13,622,458 16.4 15,038,137 17.4
Premises .. 1,464,739 1.8 1,414,992 1.6
Other assets .. 2,782,784 3.3 3,475,662 4.0
Thus the year’s surplus was invested mainly
in Government securities and loans on policies.
In the Industrial section incomings and
outgoings compare as follows :
Industrial Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
£ £ £ £
1925. 227,059 362,824 }
Written off, £lO,Bll ( '97,194
1926. . 1,557,073 365,494 389,855 / „ 0(5
Written off, £15,302 i '86,422
1927.. 1,716,059 485,709 423,964 (
Written off, £6007 \ 800,379
1928. . 1,907,851 583,292 455,849 ( „„„
Written off, £6837 \ 801,8<3
1929.. 2,056,443 601,909 495,363 ( 007-77-7
Written off, £31,394 )
1930.. 2,175,179 717,377 490,880 |
Written off, £64,047 ; 870,510
Provision for taxation, £32,365 J
1931.. 2,140,548 837,761 492,270 |
To con’t’cy fund, etc., £164,477 j- 635,405
Provision for taxation, £10,636 J
Including £18,046 for fidelity guarantees, last
year’s net premium income was £52,704
lighter at £1,570,936; interest, etc.
(£569,612), brought in an extra £18,073.
Again leaving taxes out of the reckoning,
exes, made off with 25.8 p.c. of the net pre-
miums the same as in 1930. The office
allowance for exes, is 29.1 p.c. of the pre-
mium income.
Bank of Adelaide
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922 . . 92,633 10 p.c. = 62,500 30,133 672,312
Premiums on new shares, £50,000 722,312
1923 . . 94,889 10 p.c. = 67,500 27,389 749,701
1924 . . 115,823 10 „ „ 87,500 28,323 778,021
1925 . . 117,217 10 „ „ 87,500 29,717 807,741
1926 . . 104,733 10 „ „ 87,500 17,233 824,974
Premiums on new shares, £50,000 874,974
1927 . . 104,644 10 p.c. = 89,781 14,853 889,827
Premiums on new shares, £lOO,OOO 989,827
1928 . 128,637 10 p.c. = 115.000 13,637 1,003,464
1929 . . 145,410 10 „ ~ 125,000 20,410 1,023,874
1930 . 138,108 9 .. .. 112,500 25,608 1,049,482
1931 . 91,813 7 ~ ~ 87,500 4,313 1,053,795
1932.. 66,776 4 .. „ 50,000 16,776 1,070,571
Transferred to inner reserves, £30,000.. 1,040,571
The bank's chief field is its home State,
where, during the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, good rains filled the ears with
plump white grain and allowed pastoralists
to stock up again. The drop in sterling
helped, and as the wool and wheat cheques
came in many overdue accounts were either
wiped out or reduced, and trade in the
secondary and distributive industries bright-
ened a trifle. But there was little profit in
it; prices are still low and lack strength,
while costs have become relatively inelastic,
due largely to the growth in taxation. The
rate of interest on fixecT deposits, pressure
of which had become troublesome, has been
reduced and so has the rate charged on
overdrafts; the conversion loan lowered both
the return from Government securities and
their market value; exchange earnings were
lighter, and the drop of £5 p.c. in the rate
on London probably meant some loss on
the co.’s funds there, though this loss may
have been more than offset by the gain when
the rate was rushed up to £l3O early last year.
After paying all exes., and making provi-
sion for bad and doubtful debts and other
contingencies, there was a slip of £25.037 in
the year’s declared net earnings, which were
5.3 p.c. on capital compared with 7.3. 11,
11.6, 11.1, 11.6 and 11.9 p.c. back to 1926.
So three points were knocked off the div.,
.reducing it 4 p.c.—it had remained steady at
10 p.c. for the dozen years to the close of
accounts in 1929 —and £30,000 of the visible
lay-by was taken to further strengthen inner
reserves.
The market prices the £lO shares paid to
£5 at par—the other £5 is a contingent
liability callable only in the event of liquida-
tion. The visible backing is £9 3s. 4d. in net
tangibles. That is to say. an S p.c. div. on
capital as it now stands (£1,250,000) would
call for 4.3 p.c. on shareholders funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined) at March 28;
last year’s declared net earnings were 2.9
p.c. on these funds.
< Balance-sheet figures disclose a solid finan-
cial structure, and the movements are encour-
aging :
1929. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Notes.. £6,713 £6.670 £6,661 £6,603
Bills, etc. 633,075 535,004 343,423 514,913
Deposits 6,177,692 6,105,440 5,762,326 6,031,331
Liquid
assets.. 2,857,214 2,417,584 2,653,795 3,417,291
Advances 5,949,107 6,230,987 5,454,843 5,108,010
Premises,
etc. . . 347,434 348,025 345,067 343,117
The growth of £171,490 in bills, etc., sug-
gests that trade generally has looked up a
little. Most of the spring of £269,005 in
deposits appears to have been on current
account; according to the Dec. quarterly
averages 73.9 p.c. of the lot was interest
bearing as against 75.1 p.c. for the corres-
ponding quarter of 1930. The book value of
advances, which was reduced by £346,833,
fell to 84.7 p.c. of deposits compared with
94.6 p.c. and 102 p.c. at the two preceding
balances.
All the spare money that became available
during the year was used to buy Common-
wealth Treasury bills and finance exports
1930. 1931. 1932.
Coin and bullion.. £79,712 £45,874 £38,010
Aus. notes . . 804,180 1,038,513 911,551
Government securi-
ties, etc. .. 649,934 778,521 632,968
Owing by other
banks.. .. 126,697 194,312 178,161
At call, etc.,
London . . 125,000 170,000 923,019
Remittances i n
transit.. .. 632,061 426,574 733,582
£2,417,584 £2,653,794 £3,417,291
Money at call, etc., London, includes Com-
monwealth Treasury bills, apparently issued
in Australia; it is an unsatisfactory mix-
ture. It is obvious from remittances in
transit that the co.’s London funds have
substantially increased. Incidentally, the
Treasury bills can be discounted at the Com-
monwealth Bank. When the books last closed
£53 2s. of every £lOO coming to the public
was held liquid as against £36 6s. two years
earlier. Altogether the bank was holding
only £2 17s. 2d. of the public’s money for
every pound of its own funds at March 28.
It is a very strong position, but it means
low earning power.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits.* 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1922.. 36,139 5600 10 p.c. = 30,000 539 41,556
1923.. 36,800 5600 10 „ „ 30,000 1,200 42,756
1924.. 43,540 6600 12J „ „ 37,500 440 43,196
1926.. 36,209 6600 10 „ „ 30,000 609 43,805
1926.. 45,336 5600 12j „ „ 37,500 2,236 46,041
Added to goodwill, £3OOO .. .. 48,041
Premiums on new shares, £45,000 .. 88,041
1927.. 64,143 5600 14 p.c. = 43,400 15,143 103,184
1928.. 69,553 5000 14 „ „ 56,925 7,028 110,212
Added to goodwill, £5186 .. .. 105,026
1929.. 71,358 5600 14 p.c. = 60,350 5,408 110,434
1930.. 56,955 5600 Hi „ „ 49,500 1,855 112,289
1931.. 14,542 5600 5 „ „ 22,000 99,231
Transferred from specific reserves, £16,227.. 115,458
6.6 p.c.
1932.. 11,409 5232 5 p.c. = 22,000 99,635
* After deducting bonuses to staff.
The business was founded by the Wunder-
liclis in the eighties of last century. Alert
and enterprising, they were quick to take
advantage of new trading opportunities. Thus
the co., which turns out metal ceilings, shop
fronts, show cases, tiles, architectural terra-
cotta and other embellishments that furnish
or ornament buildings, has developed into the
largest and most successful of its kind in
Australasia —its factories are scattered
throughout the Commonwealth and Maori-
land.
Broadly, the board’s policy has been to
distribute profits as they were earned. Over
the decade to the close of accounts in 1930
shareholders put up an extra £140,000, mak-
ing paid capital £520,000; divs. averaged a
shade over 12 p.c., and £74,009, including
£45,000 of share premiums, was visibly
added to reserves. But now that loans
have ceased and we have entered upon what
looks like a period of low prices, activity in
the building and ancillary trades has come
almost to a standstill; hence the abrupt con-
traction of the co.’s profits and divs. After
paying the pref. divs., there was only enough
left to show 1.3 p.c. on the ord. capital last
year; but £164227 was brought from inner
reserves, and 5 p.c. w r as distributed. The
immediate future, however, is obscure. Re-
sults will mainly depend upon the extent
to which the plant can be kept employed,
and that in turn will depend largely upon
the revival of confidence and of capital ex-
penditure generally. Meanwhile, the co. can
be expected to get a large slice of whatever
business is offering.
As usual there is nothing to cause anxiety
about the finances:—
1920. 1931. 1932.
Shareholders’ capital .. £379,666 £520,000 £520,000
Employees’ capital .. 14,040 81,673 50,100
Liabilities . . .. 38,244 66,855 62,148
Freeholds . . .. 151,559 347.538 347,538
Leaseholds .. .. 9,659 1,027 1,003
Plant etc 108,926 242,990 242,990
Stocks 136,396 138,140 109,401
Book debts . . . . 64,342 32,972 33,647
Cash, etc 16,598 18,891 10,736
Last year staff men retrenched were assisted
to the extent of £31,573 from the partner-
ship and superannuation fund, reducing it
to £50,100 at the end of Feb. To do this
and lighten outside liabilities by £4707 the
book value of stocks was reduced by £28.739,
and cash, etc., was drawn upon for £8155.
Thus the more or less liquid surplus
(£91,636, including stocks) was £31,512
lignter than at the previous balance. Addi-
tions were made to plant during the year,
but the book value of the item remained un-
changed. The board says that visible re-
serves will probably cover any writing down
that may become necessary. When the books
closed these reserves were £99,635 in excess
of goodwill (£73,588), which the “Wild Cat”
has not treated as an asset.
_On the market pound ords., which fetched
455. three years ago, are now priced at 14s.
9d. The return at the lower figure is 7.1
p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The statutory
cut has reduced the pref. div. to 5.4 p.c.:
there are 40,000 firsts and a like number of
seconds, ranking in the order stated. The
book value of the net tangible backing is
£l5 9s. 10d., firsts; £l4 9s. 10d., seconds;
245. Bd. ords.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd.
In the following table goodwill (£10,000),
preliminary exes. (£Bl2 to commence) and
patents are not treated as assets
, Dividends , To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.
1928. .21,324 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 20,000 1,3(24 2,276
Added Intangibles £32 .. .. 2,308
Dec., Reserves.
1928* 21,469 10 p.c. 10 p.c. = 10,000 11,469 9,161
Added Intangibles, £47 .. . . 9,114
1929.. 5 p.c. 5 p.c. = 10,050 29,540 38,654
Added Intangibles, £59 . . . . 38,595
1930.. 8,981 Nil ' Nil 8,981 47,570
Added intangibles, £9O . . . . 47,486
1931. .10,429 10 p.c. Nil = 8,000 2,429 49,915
*Six months.
Demand for the products of these textile
concerns has been checked by the sharp con-
traction of the national income and the
quick growth of unemployment, while indus-
trial legislation and the spring in exchange,
primage, sales and other taxes have made
outgoings difficult to restrain, especially in
N. S. Wales., where 48 hours’ wages have
to be paid for 44 hours’ work. These and
other things have stood in the way of bene-
fits which were expected from the emer-
gency tariff and import prohibitions; also,
the mills in Victoria have been kept busier
than those in N. S. Wales.
After overcoming early technical difficul-
ties, this Sydney co., which was formed in
1921, turned its attention to marketing, and
it looked like developing into a steady 10
percenter. But just as the new equipment
got into production the spring and summer
sales iii 1929 failed; stocks accumulated, and
in a general scramble for ready cash many
lines had to be marketed at cut rates in the
following year. Thus the profit for 1930
was only £648 in excess of the pref. require-
ments, and no divs. were paid owing to the
uncertain outlook.
The management, however, appears to
have gene about things the right way. Last
year improved production methods and
.savings in administration and distribution
costs enabled the co. to further reduce its
prices, business improved a trifle, and selling
branches were opened at Melbourne and
Brisbane. Gross profits (£106,005) fell
away £6382, making the drop £62,775 over
the last two years. Exes. (£95,757, includ-
ing £3700 set aside for taxation as against
£2700 in the previous year) were £7785
lighter. Still, allowing for 12 months’ pref.
requirements, the balance of the year’s net
earnings was not quite 1 p.c. on the ord.
capital.
That was after writing off £11,317 more
than had been spent on plant and taking
stocks into the sheet at £7067 below the
1930 figure, notwithstanding requirements
of the new branches :
Dec., Dec., Dec., Dec.,
1928. 1929. 1930. 1931.
£ £ £ £
Ord. capital.. 133,334 ) „. Q 7ro j 166,667 166,667
Pref. „ .. 66,666 j ( 83,333 83,333
Overdraft .. 35,386 43,171 49,052 59,070
Creditors ... 67,434 94,940 57,083 28,095
Freeholds .. 27,615 40,472 41,600 41,600
Plant . . 87,015 135,934 151,847 140,530
Stocks . . 123,115 180,527 135,295 128,228
Debtors . . 95,556 85,239 85,181 95,371
Cash, etc. .. 1,179 1,352 1,489 1,691
To reduce the amount coming to sundry
creditors by £28,988 and add £10,190 net to
debtors’ balances, the co. went to its bankers
for an extra £lO,OlB last year. The more
or less liquid surplus (£138,125. including
stocks) was £22,295 stronger than at the
previous balance.
Prospects for 1932 are satisfactory, pro-
vided the present volume of business is
maintained, the board says. But it is diffi-
cult to say to what extent, if any, the ords.
are likely to get into the picture, especially
while further reduction of costs is impeded
by discriminating State legislation. At the
moment high prices for our secondary pro-
ducts, due to the growth of taxation and
rigidity of costs generally, stand in the
way of a stronger demand for goods and ser-
vices. .
The prefs., which carry a fixed cumu-
lative 10 p.c. and have priority as to capital,
are priced at 16s. on the market; the div.
was 5 p.c. in arrears at Dec. 31. Allow-
ing for the statutory cut, the return at 16s.
is 9.7 p.c. For the ords., 7s. 9d. is asked;
they recently sold at ss. 9d. The net tan-
(Continued on page 16.)


rS3\t' * £aPl fiKM *' r
*->* ■ &%
58
Q
,
ty
ua
HARDYS
WINES
mm
wmM?rnrn
I&Y
e/ 7
iSKiifp
TINTARA
M
li
mm.
. 't#
>m
mm
wm
mm
m
■
A
■f&
m
v Y
B
sHi
,?-, :
m
m
wmm
3S?S®S.
v
■■■■■•■■:
axfevS.v -S a >S
HI
f :
jJL \ *" ';
If 5?
at' o os
ci >it q « a* q « v 4 $ **. * ,f a -
DELICIOUS—AND CONVENIENT
The ideal Breakfast Biscuit, delicious for
lunch and a general favorite for supper
-—plain or buttered and served with coffee.
Made in Australia,
financed by Australians
and produced by highly trained
Australian workers.
Manufactured by
WILLIAM A KNOTT. LIMITED,
The Biscuit Specialists
of 61 years’ experience.
AHNOTTC
FAMO U S
BISCUITS
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR THEM
BALANCE SHEET
OP THE
Commonwealth ISanh of Hustralta
AT 31st DECEMBER, 1931.
LIABILITIES.
£ s d
Capital Account 4,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . 1,290,818 6 5
Rural Credits Department —
Capital Account . . . . 1,037,887 2 3
Reserve Fund 146,7 50 19 3
Development Fund . . 86,509 14 3
‘Deposits, Accrued Interest and
Rebate 00,742,453 18 4
Bills Payable and other Lia-
bilities 1,835,141 6 10
69,739,571 7 4
tntingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits per
Contra 534,788 10 10
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments . . . . 70,274,309 18 2
Note Issne Department. . . . 54,862,355 13 7
£125,136,665 11 9
‘Deposits, Accrued Interest and Rebate includes
£8,754,464 10s 2d in respect of Deferred por-
tion of Capitalised Deposits taken over from
Rural Bank (since de-eapitalised and converted
to Fixed Deposits).
ASSETS.
£ s d
Coin, Bullion and Cash Balances 621,880 5 5
Australian Notes 6,566,230 0 0
Money at Short Call in London 12,039,191 12 0
Short Term Loans in Australia 9,982,440 16 1
Investments —
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities (face value
£10,537,900) 10,533,750 0 0
Commonwealth Government
Securities (face value
£17,764,930) 17,668,974 5 4
Fixed Deposits of other Banks 875,000 0 0
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittances in Transit .. .. 1,239,414 12 11
Bills Discounted, Loans and
' Advances to Customers and
other sums due to the Bank 9,249,873 5 10
Bank Premises 082,816 9 3
69,739,571 7 4
Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit
per Contra 534,738 10 10
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments .. ..70,274,309 18 2
Note Issue Department .. ..54,862,355 13 7
£125,136.605 11 9
Dr.
PROFIT AND 1-OSS
Cr.
£ s d
General Banking Department—
To Reserve Fund 105,100 12 6
„ National Debt Sinking Fund 105,100 12 6
Rural Credits Department—-
To Reserve Fund 13,805 15 5
~ Development Fund . . . . 13,805 15 5
Note Issue Department
To Commonwealth Treasury . . 539,127 16 5
„ Rural Credits Department
Capital Account . . 179,709 5 5
£956,649 17 8
S (I
£
Profits for Half-year ended
31st December, 1931
Banking Business 210,201 5 0
Rural Credits Department .. 27,611 10 10
Note Issue Department .. .. 718,837 1 10
£956,649 17 8
Dr.
RESERVE FUND
Cr.
.£ s d
To Balance 1,290,818 6 5
■
' 1 1
■ . i'>-i !'■ :■ • : .
£1,290,818 6 5
A* s cl
By Balance 1,185,717 13 11
By Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account of one-half of Net
Profits of Banking Business 105,100 12 6
£1,290,818 6 5
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
A. 11. LEWIS, Secretary.
MARCUS BRYANT. Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
Sydney, 24th March, 1932.
Note Issue Department
LIABILITIES.
£ s d
Notes in Circulation 54,803,426 10 0
Property Reserve Account .. 58,929 3 7
£54,862,355 13 7
ASSETS.
£ s d
Gold Coin and Bullion . . . . 10,500,444 16 0
Debentures and other Securities 44,234,058 13 1
Other Assets 127,8,52 4 6
£54,862,355 13 7
Certified Correct,
BERTRAND LATHAM,
Secretary Note Issue Department.
MARCUS BRYANT, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
Sydney, 24th March, 1932.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia.
BALANCE SHEET at 31st DECEMBER, 1931.
LIABILITIES.
£ s d
Reserve Fund 1,588,283 13 10
‘Depositors’ Balances . . . . 117,675,937 6 0
Contingency Account and other
Liabilities 3,755,303 17 8
£123,019,524 17 6
‘“Depositors’ Balances” includes deferred por-
tion of Depositors’ Balances taken over from
the Government Savings Bank of New South
Wales (since released in full), £45,874,558
8s 4d, and “Interest Accrued,” £1,619,199
2s 4d.
ASSISTS.
£ s d
Coin and Cash Balances . . . . 2,666,627 13 8
Australian Notes 314,954 10 0
Fixed Deposits 400,000 0 0
Government Securities .. .. 79,387,240 14 7
Securities of Municipalities and
other Public Authorities . . 32,828,540 2 4
Bank Premises 1,758,588 4 7
Other Assets 5,663,573 12 4
£123,019,524 17 6
Hr.
PROFIT AND LOSS.
Cr.
£ s cl
To National Debt Sinking Fund 59,611 7 1
~ Savings Bank Reserve Fund.. 59,611 7 1
£119,222 14 2
£
s <1
By Profit for Half-year ended
31st December. 1931 , . .. 119,222 14 2
Dr.
RESERVE FUND
Cr.
To Balance
£ s d
1,588,283 13 10
£1,588,283 13 10
By Balance
~ Transfer from Profit and
Loss Account of one-half of
the Net Profits
£ s d
,528,672 6 9
59,611 7 1
£1,588,283 13 10
We certify that the above Balance Sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
A. H. LEWIS, Secretary.
MARCUS BRYANT. Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
E. C. RIDDLE,
Governor.
Sydney, 24th March, 1932
The usual Certificates of the Auditor-General of the Commonwealth as to the correctness of the
above accounts have been driven.
Legal Notice.
|N THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA
(In forma pauperis.)
No. 406 of 1931.
Between DORIS SERCOMBE CORRIE Plaintiff
And WILLIAM HENRY VYNER CORRIE
Defendant.
To WILLIAM HENRY VYNER CORRIE formerly
: of John Street Norwood South Australia.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to William Henry
Vyner Corrie whose last known address was at John
j street Norwood South Australia that a Writ has been
issued in the Supreme Court of South Australia in
an action in which his wife Doris Sercombe Corrie
! claims an order for divorce on the ground of his
; desertion for five years and upwards and in such
' action his wife intends to ask for an order for
| custody of Beryl Doris Corrie and for costs and if
William Henry Vyner Corrie desires to be heard in
opposition to the claim for any of such orders- he
must file an appearance in the office of the Master
of the Supreme Court of South Australia within
forty-five days of the publication of this advertise-
ment otherwise orders may be made against him
in his absence.
CHARLES ARTHUR SANDERY,
Victoria Buildings, Victoria Square, Adelaide,
Solicitor for the Plaintiff.
Missing Friends.
r T'O JAMES HUDSON McCABE, form-
erly of Warburton, in the State of Vic-
toria, Blacksmith. TAKE NOTICE that
your wife, CHARLOTTE FRANCES
jMcCABE, has instituted proceedings against
you for divorce on the grounds of a repeated
act of adultery and of desertion for three
years and upwards. Unless you enter an
appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of
the Supreme Court, Melbourne, on or before
June 12, 1902, the case may proceed in your
absence.
Alexander Llewellyn Wettenhall (of the
firm of Parkinson and Wettenhall), 10
Queen Street, Melbourne. Solicitor for the
Petitioner.
“THE WOMAN'S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a ivoman needs to know.


Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. —Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
GOLD DREDGING PLANT. —Offers are invited
for the purchase of a Gold Dredging Plant (by
Ruwolt's), situated at Adelong, New South Wales-
working capacity 20,000 cubic yards per week—
capable of handling 40ft. ground. Inspection by
arrangement. Address inquiries to Post Office Box
856JK, Melbourne. — Advt.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND SMELTING CO.
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Licensed Gold Buyers under Gold Bounty Act 19S0-Sl.
PURCHASERS AND REFINERS of Gold and Gold Ores, Silver and Silver Ores,
Gold and Silver Bullion, Copper Ores, Copper Precipitates, Scrap Copper,
and of all materials containing any of these metals.
PRODUCERS of Refined Gold, Silver and Copper, “ESA” brand of Copper Sulphate
(Bluestone).
Purchase terms and selling prices will be quoted upon application to any of the
Company’s offices, viz.:—
Smelting Works and Refineries: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Sydney Office: 25 O’Connell Street. Melbourne Office: 360 Collins Street.
Telegraphic Address: “Eratype,” Sydney, Melbourne or Port Kembla.
GOLDMINERS, send your gold by post (insured) to either our Sydney or
Port Kembla Office. The company will realise it on your account at current
London prices plus exchange, and will issue you a certificate to enable you
to collect the Gold Bounty.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Hatton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.,
Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD.
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free , on request.
O. E. FRIEND
CECIL H. DOYLE
J. W. BARNES, Manager.
Directors:
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman!
THOS. BUCKLAND
J. H. S. ANGUS
E, V. T. WHITTLE, Asst. Mgr.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 .. .. .. .. £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
giblc backing, mainly plant, worth what it
can earn, is £3 11s. lid., prefs.; 255. lid.,
ords.
Community General Assurance Co.
The Community General Assurance Co.
set up in Sydney within the last decade and
took a short cut. along the road to ruin by
doing things which the older and wiser offices
were not prepared to do. The office was
eventually raided by the police, and compul-
sory liquidation followed on June 23, 1930.
No claims have yet been paid. One of
the liquidators’ first problems (not allowed
for in the Act) was to arrive at a basis on
which disabled workmen’s weekly compen-
sation should be capitalised. Numerous
applications had to be made to the Master
in Equity for direction on matters not cov-
ered by statute, and legal expenses so far
exceed £BOO. Thus liquidation has been
protracted. Workers’ compensation claims
against the co. total about £19,000, against
which there is a deposit of £lO,OOO in the
N. S. Wales Treasury; so 10s. in the £1 is
visible there. In addition, after a lot of
arduous work, other assets have realised
about £lO,OOO, out of which claimants (in-
cluding workers’ compensation,.cases for the
balance not covered by the deposit at the
Treasury) must be satisfied. A distribution
of about 2s. in £1 from this source seems
likely.
Policies then current in the fire and motor-
car branches were cancelled by the Court
in September, 1930.
Application is shortly to be made to the
Master in Equity for an order to release
the Treasury deposit. When that is done,
and the affairs of several of the co.’s
debtors are investigated, the liquidators will
be able to present a statement of affairs.
A first distribution to claimants should then
follow.
“Xanthate”: The flotation process of
mineral separation, first applied at Broken
Dili by Vincent Potter in 1901, has made
wonderful strides in recent years. At one
Californian mine ore consisting of sulphides
of copper, lead, zinc and iron is being treated,
and high-grade concentrates of all these are
being obtained, with good recoveries. Not
satisfied, the co. is considering recovery by
flotation of the small amount of barytes in
the tailings. Flotation has aLso been widely
applied to non-metallic minerals. A plant
to treat 1000 tons of phosphate rock daily
was recently started in the U.S.A.. the
flotation cells closely resembling the Ileb-
bard type at the Central Mine, Broken Hill.
Other minerals that can be commercially
floated are coal, garnet, graphite, quartz,
bauxite, mica, limestone, china clay and feld-
spar. Gum resin is being recovered by flota-
tion from coal waste, hair is being separated
from tannery waste, refuse from crushed
sugarcane, and even thistle buds and leaves
from peas. Common soap is one of the
principal agents employed in the flotation of
these substances.
* * * *
Bulolo Gold Dredging’s preliminary run
of a few days with a comparatively small
turnover showed a recovery a good deal below
boring values. The next and latest run
(only one dredge is yet in commission) was
for the 10 days to April 15. From a turn-
over of 103,000 c.y. 1700 oz. of bullion was
recovered, worth 23,000 gold dollars. This
works out at lid. per yard (equal to Is.
5.8 d. in Australian currency at current rate
of exchange) as against the prospectus esti-
mate of 2s. Id. There is no reason to sup-
pose that values may not improve, though
the dredge, which is on bottom, must now
be working a fairly large face. One im-
portant item missing from the co.’s report
is the working cost per yard. In future bul-
lion recoveries, valued in gold dollars, and the
yardage treated will be announced at the end
of each 28 days. The bottom plates of No.
2 dredge were laid in the erection pit on
April 20.
“Old Wai’den”: New Guinea Goldfields
has been a long time getting down to brass
tacks, but the big co. announces that it will
have its treatment mill running by July.
The people in control have spared neither time
nor money on elaborately proving the ground
they are to work, and they seem to be satis-
fied. The latest progress report shows, as
previous ones do, a high silver content in the
gold-bearing ores. This is characteristic of
all the formations on this field, and it doesn’t
make treatment any easier, even with the
most modern methods.
ft * tt ft
“Ebagoolah”: Although the Batavia gold-
field, Gape York Peninsula, has been known
and the alluvial worked since the eighties
of last century, production increased nearly
300 p.c. last year, when gold valued at about
£20,000 was won. Fossickers have since con-
verged on the peninsula by steamer, horse-
back, foot and motor-trucks. The lead which
has produced practically all the gold of recent
years has been worked for 1000 ft., and allu-
vial wash is being raised from 100 ft below
the surface. One hundred yards further north
a shaft bottomed at 145 ft., and only a few
fine colors were obtained. Here a drive is
to be made in the hope of intersecting the
lead. Water is heavy and requires a pump.
A small stamper and a Huntingdon mill are
being erected on the field. Within a radius
of 10 miles other rich pockets have been
found. Much of the peninsula is very diffi-
cult to prospect, being covered with sand-
stone and conglomerate in depths varying
from a few inches to 200 ft. There may be
plenty of gold there yet, but there are no
surface indications.
•* * * *
At Mt. Coolon (N.Q.) excavations for
the sawmill foundations and erection of the
stack are complete, and good progress is
being made with foundations for the ore bins
and erection of the various buildings. The
air pump is ready, and the pipes are being
laid in the shaft and the 300 ft. level, where
excavations of the plat chamber and sump
have been completed.
ft *
The presence of tributors in a mine is
often taken to mean that the days of large-
scale operations are over. This has not been
the general experience at Kalgoorlie, where
tributing has been widely adopted. Take
the case of Great Boulder, whose main lode
has yielded over £12,000,000 worth of gold.
In 1926 the co.’s ore reserves were 63,000
tons, assaying 91dwt. The mine was let to
tributors on an extensive scale; this and the
co.’s own development allowed larger ton-
nages of higher-grade stone to be treated,
and the co. turned the corner in 1927 —the
profit for that year was £30,000. Since •
then profits have totalled £170,000, most of
which has been spent on development; good
ore has been met with on the 1650, 1950 and
2650 levels, and the life of the mine con-
siderably extended. At the Lake View and
Star tributors operating largely in old work-
ings have greatly aided the co. Speaking
generally, little importance should be at-
tached to the fact that tributors’ ore usually
assays much higher than the co.’s, because
tributors mostly pick over their stuff before
passing it on to the mill, and usually they
mine on a narrower width.
According to Carl Lindberg’s second re-
port on Lake View and Star, his already favor-
able opinion has brightened. He observes that
ore reserves have been increased and that the
property has a life beyond that of 10 years
anticipated by him in March, 1931. With
fine gold at £6 17s. 6d. (Australian), an
operating profit of 19s. sd. per ton on an out-
put of 30,000 is estimated, and of 20s. sd.
per ton on 40;000 tons a month. He now
puts the cost of reconditioning the mine and
workings, special development, etc., at
£406,000, compared with his previous esti-
mate of £380,000. So . far approximately
two-thirds of the programme has been, com-
pleted. Lindberg compliments the manage-
ment on its work.
* * ft ft
When the Victor Leggo arsenic recovery
plant at Wiluna (W.A.) is in full swing, an
output of 80 tons monthly is anticipated.
The crude arsenic, which is given off during
the roasting of flotation concentrates prior
to cyanidation, has to be further refined;
this Leggos propose to do at Bendigo (Vic.).
Until a couple of years ago, Australia’s
requirements of arsenic were 2500 tons annu-
ally; production was 700 tons.
* * -'t *
Production at Collie, Westralia’s one and
only coalfield, was valued at £333,597 for
1931, a drop of £61,000 compared with the
1930 figure. Government railways took over
60 per cent, of the output, and the Midland
Railway Co. and visiting steamers got most
of the balance. Collie Amalgamated, the
principal producer, in which the P. and O.
and Orient cos. are interested, is said to be
doing well, but it keeps its figures to itself.
* ft ft *
Westralia’s latest “oil find”—the first for
some time —is on station property in the
Murchison. Rock, “smelling like a motor-
car” and said to contain petroleum, is visible
on the surface. Samples have so impressed
Minister for Mines Scaddan that he has sent
a couple of geologists to report on the dis-
covery.
For the 23 crushing days to March 5
Waihi got 60940 z. of gold and 51,8410 z. of
silver from 19,218 tons of ore. The co. is
the most consistent producer in Maoriland,
and with gold at its present price there is
plenty of payable stuff in sight yet.
$
Maoriland’s gold output for 1931 was
133,2200 z. fine, w r orth 1551,030 with gold
at the standard price. This yield compares
with 124,5320 z. in 1930 and 119,7750 z. in
1929. With the increase in the number of
lode and alluvial mines, the 1932 output ypill
probably exceed 150,0000 z.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) When did Phosphate Co-op. Co. of
Australia start? (2) Capital, divs. and
bonuses to shareholders? (3) Financial
position, etc. f —9043.
(1) Manufacture began at Geelong about
four years ago. (2) At June 30 last paid
capital was £293,915. It is a purely co-
operative concern; no divs. are paid; ex-
cepting a small quantity of excess stocks,
sales are confined to shareholders, who
receive rebates on their purchases. Indi-
vidual holdings are limited to 60 shares of
£5 each. Rebates per ton for the last three
years compare as follows:
1929. 1930. 1931.
Rebate on quota .. .. Bs. Od. 7s. 6d. ss. Od.
„ ~ excess quota .. 2s. 6d. 3s. Od. 2s. Od.
A further 2s. 6d. per ton is allowed on indi-
vidual purchases of 100 tons or more. The
contraction in last year’s figures is due to
the spring in exchange and primage. Out-
put was practically unchanged; the co. sup-
plied about one-half the fertiliser bought by
farmers through Government assistance. (3)
At June 30,1931, shareholders’ funds totalled
£302,928, including the forfeited share reserve
(£2013) and buyers’ deferred payment
account (£7000). The outside debt totalled
£332,848 —debentures, £231,800; overdraft,
£63,268; sundry creditors, £37,780. More
or less liquids amounted to £187,376 —stocks,
£45,417; book debts, etc., £141,959, including
£54,125 of Government accounts. All debts
considered bad had been written off. Build-
ings and plant figured at £338,645; freehold,
£31,498; intangibles, £78,257. Thus the
net tangible backing per £5 share was
£3 16s. lid. (book value). Incidentally, in
July last the co. led the way with a cut of
25 p.c. in the interest charged on fertiliser
accounts.
I applied for and still hold 32 shares in
a co-operative society registered under the
N. S. Wales Co-operation, Community Settle-
ment Credit Act. At a general meeting
some months ago it was decided by a bare
majority of shareholders to fix the minimum
shareholding' at 50 shares. Since this meet-
ing the society has made deductions from
moneys due to me and applied them towards
making my holding up to 50 shares. Can
it legally do thist —B662.
Where the registrar of joint-stock com-
panies approves of a proposal by a co-
operative society to fix a minimum share-
holding, to be paid up by levies on proceeds
of consignments, and shareholders agree in
writing by a two-thirds’ majority (in number
of shareholders and value of shares) to
adopt the scheme, it becomes binding on the
members generally. Only fully-paid shares
may be allotted. This law came into force
in December, 1931.
What has happened to the Natalite Motor
Spirit Co.? Are the shares of any value?
—9574.
This co. registered in Sydney on August
17, 1920, to acquire the rights to a South
African process for producing motor spirit
from sugar-cane alcohol and other ingre-
dients. Over 80,000 shares were taken by
the public. But the venture failed, and,
though not legally wound up, the co. is now
defunct. It has no saleable assets, and the
scrip is worthless.
(1) Is there any legal difficulty in forming
a co. to work a shale-oil deposit discovered
on property over which am authority to
prospect is held? (2) To what extent must
a shale-oil deposit be opened up before in-
spection will be made by the Mines Depart-
ment? (3) Is inspection necessary before
assistance can be granted by the Shale Oil
Committee? (4) Is sulphate of alumina
peculiar' to oil-shale deposits? (5) Is sul-
phate of, alumina likely to be mistaken for
decayed pyrites? (6) Is difference between
carbonaceous slate, fossiliferous slate and
graphitic slate sufficient to discriminate be-
tween them unthout actual assay? —92Sl.
(1) No, provided the deposit is held under
a recognised mining tenure and the
usual conditions under company law are ful-
filled. (2) No specific conditions are laid
down by the department as to the extent of
prospecting necessary before an inspection
may be made. Each case is considered on
its merits; an examination may be author-
ised at any time during prospecting or de-
velopment. (3j Usually the Shale Oil Com-
mittee is guided by a report as to thickness,
quality and extent of the deposit furnished
at its request by the Mines Department. (4)
Sulphate of alumina is rare in oil shales.
(5) Not by an experienced geological
assayer. (6) Not always; graphitic slate
and carbonaceous slate may appear similar
in hand specimens, and be somewhat related
in chemical composition. Fossils may be
found in either material. Samples should be
forwarded to the Curator, Mining Museum,
George-street North, Sydney, for determina-
tion.
(1) What is wood opal; where is it found;
where can I have specimens identified? (2)
Method of extracting flour or mustard gold
from wash dirt or slimes? —9oB7.
(1) It is wood petrified by opal with or
without the preservation of the woody struc-
ture. _ Its distribution is widespread, especi-
ally in the Great Artesian Basin, but as a
rule the replacing medium is common opal of
very little, if any, commercial value. Speci-
men could be forwarded for identification to
State Geological Survey, Mines Department.
(2) Impossible to recommend any particular
method of saving gold in a fine state of divi-
sion without adeouate data on the physical
nature and chemical composition of the
materials to be treated. If sufficient induce-
ment exists, systematic experiments on the
alternative methods of cyanidation and flota-
tion would probably solve the problems.
BRIEF ANSWERS
A.8.L.: Prospects very poor. Moreover, the
delay in starting’ means loss of capital. .. .A.M.:
Have no records on the co., but present outlook
for the M.L. flax industry generally is not bright.
. ...D.W.: No. 1 seems the best speculation of
that lot. No. 3 next 11.0. A (Nambour) : Unless
you have confidence in your brothers’ opinion about
prospects in England, don’t sell out at present.
Why not place your business under a manager while
you personally investigate? The exchange doesn’t
look like dropping for some time... .E.M.C.: Buyers
were offering ss. for Gowings’ prefs. about November
last. No quotes since. A return of three or four
shillings on Keeps’ prefs. was forecast some time
ago... .K.A.M.: See “Questions Answered,” B.
17/2/’32... .C.J.M.: (1) Yes. (2) Not much further.
(3) The two first-named banks have more net
tangible assets per share than the latter two; also,
the first has the use of large perpetual deposits
costing 4 per cent, or less. (4) N. S. Wales,
Commercial of Sydney and National £lO-paids. (5)
Yes, though No. 2 is one of the smaller cos. operating
in a hard-hit State. (6) Prospects depend on general
conditions. It is a key industry, and earnings
will be governed largely upon constructional activity
and new capital investment A.F.: (1) Because
it is doubtful whether co. will be able to pay
interest, due May 1. Accounts for 1931 not yet
sent out. For last eight months, 1930, co. netted
£45,532 ; debenture interest took £25,380 of it
Recently there was talk of abolishing bounty
(believed to be largely responsible for 1930
profit), and increasing tariff. (2) Yes, but
there are doubts about future payments. (3)
There are mortgages on freehold, and bank has
probably been given prior claim over other assets.
They are represented largely by plant, and mature
May 1, 1935 ; no sinking fund has been estab-
lished ; they are almost certain .to be reviewed,
possibly at lower rate of interest. (4) Wait
until figures for 1931 are sent out P.H.M.: Stick
fast to what you have; it looks vastly better than
copra. The gold idea is a gamble with the odds
against y0u.... B.II.: It’s a gamble; if you cannot
afford the risk, keep out of it L.P.H.: Cost of liv-
ing lowest Oct.-Nov., 1931. (2) Yes, as safe as it can
be in these uncertain times. Chief danger lies in
possibility of inflation J.W.: Write to J. Barnacle,
legal manager, Australian Radium Corp., Broken
Hill Chambers, 21 Queen-street, Melbourne. Plans
are being prepared for erection of up-to-date radium
extraction plant. Scrip is not listed.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
Land for the Landless
Dear Bulletin, —The following unem-
ployed-relief plan was put forward at a meet-
ing of the Townsville Rotary Club, and,
although more applicable to Queensland con-
ditions. it should merit consideration in
other States. The central idea is that any
farmer having, say, 10 acres of suitable land
not put to any particular use may, through
the Labor Department, arrange to lease it
to an unemployed man for, say, two years,
with the option of taking it for another
three years.
The man would work for the farmer for
the period for which he now works under the
Queensland unemployed-relief scheme, and
be paid out of the fund. Average time worked
is about two days a week; three and four days
are given to some men. If a three-day man
were selected he would give the farmer three
days’ work per week; the rest of the week
he would be free to work his 10 acres, the
farmer to lend implements and a horse and
assist with advice. There would be dis-
appointments, but I think the thing would
work. —Yours etc., Bobawaba.
Do Something!
Dear Bulletin, —W,lien are the people of
Australia, Governments, banks, financial
institutions, etc., going to realise that the
prices ruling for primary products are
world-parity prices, and that costs in Aus-
tralia, bolstered up by arbitration courts,
tariffs and cranky Governments, will have
to come down to the same level if we are to
remain on the land? We hear at every
Premiers’ conference, at every Loan Council
meeting, from every director and every
manager of the financial institutions, that
at all hazards the primary producers must be
kept going. What are these people doing—
not saying, but doing —to lighten the burden
and help to bring down costs? Not a blasted
thing! Instead, the banks are doing their
best to evade interest reduction. The wool-
brokers refuse to reduce brokerage and other
charges. And the Governments just go on
piling up taxes. It’s high time we got some-
one as strong in the right as Lang is in the
wrong and did something instead of wind-
bagging.—Yours, Back Teeth Awash.
A National Maritime Board
Dear Bulletin, —In an address given at
a recent meeting of the Shiplovers’ Society,
Sydney, Captain Selwyn Day, C. 8., D. 5.0.,
R.N.R., praised a Bulletin article on the
Navigation Act, and deplored the lack of
statesmanlike vision which has led to the
handing over to alien flags of the freight and
other enormous earnings for the carriage of
Australian exports. The lack of opportunity
for Australian boys to learn seacraft was
a tragedy, he added. “Is it not remarkable,”
the captain went on, “that not even one ship
under the Australian flag trades to European
waters? I have been shipmates with Aus-
tralian seamen and found them second to
none in efficiency, and I can see no reason
why shipowners and their employees pould
not settle the wage question by the creation
of an institution like the British National
Maritime Board, which has brought about
co-operation between shipowners and their
sea-going staff, and prevented strikes.
“Thousands of unemployed officers and men
in' the navigating, engineering and catering-
branches would,” Captain Selwyn Day con-
cluded, “have cause for gratitude to ship-
lovers who by deed or word would assist to-
wards the revival of our shipping industry.
As shiplover and practical seaman I
submit for consideration the formation of
a National Maritime Board as a well-tried
and successfully-proved medium for bring-
ing employers and employees together.”—
Yours etc., S. Waves.
“Gad” and the Dole
Dear Bulletin, —“Canuck” (B. 20/4/’32)
asserts that I said I had a right to share
the earnings of somebody or other. I never
said such a thing. I do not believe I have
a right to share anyone’s earnings. I par-
ticipate in the dole because there is no
other course open to me at the moment. If
my participation in the dole hits “Canuck”
I am sorry; but I cannot do anything about
it. Besides, let him remember that while I
was working and paying income tax, he,
“Canuck,” was sharing my earnings to pay
for the “free” education of his family. Also
I never proposed to work for five bob a
week for someone who couldn’t afford it. No.
The offer was seriously made to a critic
who I presumed could afford it. —Yours etc.,
Gad.
Cutting Education Costs
Dear Bulletin, —Consolidation of school
activities (B. 13/4/’32) works well in the
U.S.A., but until we can get petrol for about
sixpence a gallon it is an impossibility in
Australia. A ’bus proprietor conveying
children to a district high school wanted me
tp pay 7.5. a week per child for a nine-mile
trip; and that was the accepted average
charge on other routes to this school. On
established routes the Vic. Education Depart-
ment pays half the cost of transport: on
proposed routes to-day the subsidy is dis-
allowed. So there is no economy in the idea
for either parents or Government.
An extension of the correspondence sys-
tem is more practicable; but why should all
these economical ideas be proposed at the
expense of country children? The town
youngsters have their high schools, technical
schools and schools of domestic arts. No
one suggests closing these expensive build-
ings, which comparatively few country child-
ren ever have the opportunity of attending.
Yet it is seriously suggested, in the interests
of economy, that country children with bare
educational necessities should be deprived of,
in very many cases, their only contact with the
world outside their own little district —their
teacher. —Yours etc., Country Ped.
An Unemployed Peace Army
Dear B., —I suggest for the alleviation of
unemployment the establishment of a trained
peace army ; a voluntary enlistment scheme
to be established under similar conditions to
the voluntary. army enlistments during the
war, and to be controlled by the Defence
Department, under militarv conditions;
encampments to be established in wheat- or
similar crop-growing areas; pay to be at
the rate of 10s. per week, and the period
of enlistment to be at least 15 months, unless
special approval for a shorter period is
granted. The scheme should, of course, be
put into operation in time to allow of crops
being sown this season. The effects would
be: —
1 — Ease mounting expense of keeping the un-
employed.
2 -Provide a trained army.
3 Raise the physical and moral standard.
4 Give the unemployed a chance to regain and
preserve their dignity, self-respect and feeling of
independence.
5 -Absorb redundant officers in the Defence and
other departments.
6 Check the work of communists.
—Yours etc., E. S. Greedy.
Woolgrowers’ Troubles
Dear B., —The other day the Australian
Woolgrowers’ Council rejected Higgins’s
plan for stabilising wool prices. Now,
Higgins is the greatest authority in Australia
on wool organisation and finance. H'is man-
agement of the Imperial Wool Purchase
during the war was masterly; his creation
and handling of Bawra saved the wool
market from a debacle. Years ago he fore-
saw the slump and counselled growers to
leave portion of their Bawra proceeds for
the foundation of a protective association.
But with wool values hitting the sky, who
wanted a scheme? With prices at Bd. per
pound, and much of that due to a wobbly ex-
change, the position is now desperate, and if
the downward trend is not checked the indus-
try will go on to the rocks, as sure as Lang
made tin hares. I have made a careful study
of the Higgins stabilising plan, and it’s quite
practicable ; it’s not revolutionary, communis-
tic, socialistic or Government-controlled; in
any case Higgins is not the man to wish on
growers a wild-cat half-baked scheme. He has
always been a good friend to us. Very few
woolgrowers have had a chance of reading
this plan; and I suggest that it’s up to
growers to violently protest against the
“hush-hush” policy of the Woolgrowers’
Council and to know why the Higgins scheme
was chucked out. —Yours, ValeriN.
The Failure of Trade Unions
Dear Bulletin,— The acid test of the
value of an organisation is “How will it
function when times are bad?” A few
years back Australia was enjoying a period
of artificial prosperity, caused chiefly by high
prices oversea of our primary products and
borrowed money. Neither Labor Govern-
ment, National Government nor workers’
organisations were responsible for the high
prices. If a combination of trade unions
and a Labor Government
could keep up the prices,
we would all be strong
supporters of these move-
ments.
Until recently we had
a Federal Labor Gov-
ernment in power. We
have Labor Governments
in N.S.W., Victoria and
South Aus., and until
quite recently trade
unionism could dictate its
terms to all employers as
well as to Governments.
What has happened? The
price of our products has
come down, the flow of
borrowed money has been
stopped, wages have
come down, hours of
labor have been increased
and unemployment has
increased. Labor Govern-
ments and trade union-
ism were going to
prevent these things hap
pening. That was why
Labor Governments were
returned; that was why
men joined the trade
unions. “Capitalism has
failed to function in
times of stress,” says the
Communist. But Labor
Governments and trades
organisations that were
formed for the express
purpose of keeping up
wages and giving good
conditions to the workers
have also “failed to func-
tion in time of stress.”
It is time we realised
that a nation is not
prosperous because it
pays high wages. It pays
high wages because it is
prosperous. Labor
organisations can secure
for their members more
of what is produced; if
they demand more than
the product, they merely
condemn their members
to lose their jobs—
Yours, Scrutator.
Wealth or Waste?
Dear Bulleti n, —
Some 50 years ago we
were told that the pro-
duction in the world was
not enough to supply the
needs of the rapidly-in-
creasing population; but
we have overcome that
difficulty. Machines pro-
duce more wheat than we
can eat, more shoes than
we can wear, more clothes
than we can use, more
houses than we can live
in. Yet there are mil-
lions wanting food,
shelter and clothes. In
America, out of 1350 boot
factories, 200 could sup-
ply all the shoes wanted,
and the balance could
shut down.
What has to be found
is a method of turning
the production of the
present machine age into
wealth, instead of into
waste, by distributing the production to the
people so that it can be consumed. By all
means give the unemployed work, if you
can, but you must give them payment, even
if you cannot give them employment.
Otherwise you will starve the men, women
and children, and when the over-populated
East, particularly India, where I have been
for many years, comes down south, as come
it will, Australia will not have enough
population to count. In the Great War we
found that about 50 per cent, were not
efficient fighting men, as they had not re-
ceived enough food during peace. If we
want a white Australia, as most of us do,
we must have an economic system which
makes children a blessing, even to the poor.
I agree with the Prince of Wales that it
is no good fighting over our difficulties;
civil war or class war will only add to our
difficulties, as the 1914-18 war did. We
must get together and solve our problems,
chief of which is turning our production into
wealth by consumption.—Yours truly, C. C.
Armitage.
Cheaper Money for Farmers
Dear B., —There are tens of millions now
on deposit and earning little or nothing
which I believe would be put into mortgages
at 4 p.c. if an Act were passed limiting taxa-
tion of interest as in the case of Government
bonds. The provision should, of course,
apply only to property employed in primary
production ; and it should be provided that
any mortgage under the Act should be
exempt from any statutory moratorium, sus-
pension of payment, etc. For nine months
from the date of the Act any mortgagor
should have the right to give three months’
notice in writing to pay off any mortgage
on property which would come under the
Act. This plan would
(1) Cheapen money (of advantage to Governments
also).
(2) Free money and circulate same.
(3) Establish confidence.
(4) Relieve farmers, graziers, etc.
It might mean some loss of revenue, but
this would be balanced by cheaper interest
and reduced expenses and also by increased
output on the primary side. It would be
voluntary, and could not affect anybody who
did not desire to come in.—Yours, D. F.
Woods.
The Cry of a Country-woman
Dear Bulletin,—My experience in the
country is this. During some period of nearly
every year we are pinched for water or
grass, or both. Or if the seasons have been
good the fly pest has been bad. Since 1925
we in Western Queensland have had almost
continuous drought, which, coupled with low
prices for sheep and wool ? has ruined many
selectors. Time after time we have had
the heartbreak of watching clouds gather
and disperse without giving relief to the
thirsty land, and we’ve grown sick with
hope deferred. Sheep reared with infinite
care have died, or become so weak that they
have bogged in waterlioles and been dragged
out to die —or be killed. There comes a
breaking point. The city dweller has com-
forts and pleasures unheard of in the bush,
some of the comforts being doctors, den-
tists and baby-clinics close at hand. The
country dweller has to pay high . haulage
rates for even the necessities of life ; and
while we western people are crying out for
fresh fruit and green vegetables, we read of
“a glut in the market.” If there were no
country people there would be no cities.
Hence, before advocating a “Back to the
Land” movement, what about a “Make the
Country Moye Attractive” movement? —
Yours faithfully, Weary Ofitall.
“Bagmen”
Dear B., —“Tuck” deplores the use of the
term “bagmen” in describing “swaggies”
(B. 30/3/’32). Like everyone else, the
swaggie lias felt the depression. His
blankets and busn-rugs have long since van-
ished, either worn out or disposed of for
food. H'is “nap” is replaced by bags—
wheat-bags, flour-bags, any sort, size or
shape of bags. Hence the more descriptive
“bagman.”—Yours, Wallaby.
Unemployment and Its Alleviation
Dear Bulletin, —Employment depends
upon either the capacity of a Government to
utilise the service of its citizens, or the
power and desire of the private potential
users of labor in all its branches.
Not so long since the electioneering
cry was, “A change of Government will
restore confidence and the evils that possess
us will vanish.” The Federal Government is
changed, presumably confidence is restored;
and yet there is little evidence among the
citizens of that sine qua non —the desire
to give employment. In rural districts many
who could write their cheque for three
figures look out on the world through a
forest of thistles that encroach on their very
doorsteps. Small-town councils innumer-
able sit periodically in solemn conclave de-
bating ways and "means of cadging water
supplies and grants for this or that from
Governments they often anathematise, while
the very elements of maintenance and order,
cleanliness and tidiness are conspicuous by
their absence in the town streets they are
appointed to conserve and improve.
No, confidence is not enough. - All enemies
of Communism must be brought to see that
the co-operation and eager help of private
individuals is the only alternative to the
evil they profess to hate. Co-operation or
Communism it is bound to be.
Civilisation both makes, and is made by,
jobs. Let us become civilised! —Yours,
etc., S. N. It.
IN RESTRAINT OF BILKING.
“Promised yer the earth eighteen munce ago? Of course I did. But how’s a bloke ter keep his
promises with blokes like them cramping his style all the time?”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS I uiL (JOMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's Grand Opera Season
Criterion “The Barretts of Wimpole Street”
Royal “Venus, Ltd.”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Bitter Sweet”
King's “Whistling in the Dark”
State Movies and Talkies
*
Information subjoined was obtained from
a play called “Rigoletto,” seen at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, on a recent evening.
Mantua was a dukedom in Italy where, in
the sixteenth century, the people, both high
and low, conversed in song and were given
to soliloquies in private and in public,
decking their remarks to themselves and
Others with trills, cadenzas, turns and even
arpeggios. Their more important pronounce-
ments were preluded by stringed instru-
ments, which said rum turn turn slowly three
times so that all might lend ear and attend.
It all started with the duke, a gay lad with
a roving eye for the lassies and as pretty a
tenor voice as you might wish to hear, giv-
ing a party in his palace. He put on his
sepia and amber doublet —the one with the
slashed sleeves —and his dove-colored hose,
and looked a credit to his tailor. He chatted
w-ith this one and that one, all to a merry,
prankish tune. The ladies of the Court, who
were many and beautiful, joined with some
of the gallants in a stately minuet. In
stamped crooked old Rigoletto, the C9urt
jester, and made all to titter. Also arrived
an elderly gentleman, the Comte Monterone,
who objected to the Duke’s carryings-on with
his womenfolk, and stated his case melodiously
in C major, but with evidences of rancor.
Rigoletto, as the Duke’s next friend, told him
to go and chase himself, whereupon Mon-
terone, who didn’t seem to give a rap for
all the dukes in Christendom, launched a
full-sized malediction in B flat. The Duke
skipped nimbly from under and went out
to have a look at the moon, so that the full
face of the curse fell on poor old Rigoletto.
Moral —be a duke.
Now this misshapen old Rigoletto had
a daughter, Gilda, a plump little mite with a
voice like a canary, whom he sought to
shelter from the pitfalls of the Mantuan
Court. But the Duke had seen her at church,
had discovered where she lived, and was
already making dates with her in the back
garden, pretending he was plain Walter
Malde and an honest gentleman. Hardly
had daddy scuttled off to see a man about
an assassination when the naughty Gilda
was in her lover’s arms. And when her
Walter had gone she bombarded the welkin
with high notes, grupetti, fioraiura and port-
amenti to express her affection for his name.
Events now moved swiftly. The Duke’s
courtiers, having bamboozled Rigoletto
into thinking they were frying quite
other fish, abducted Gilda. Chloroform being
then unknown, they either stunned her. with
a boot or she conveniently swooned, for she
uttered not one note as they hustled her
off to the palazzo. Rigoletto discovered the
trick played on him, and rushed dementedly
through the house roaring “Gheeldah ! Gheel-
dah!” Returning to the palazzo he foxily
dissimulated his grief, and endeavored to
find his daughter. After the courtiers had
deliberately and without heat knocked him
down three times for attempting to open a
certain door, he came to the conclusion they
didn’t want him to go in there. He stayed
down the third time, and told his assailants
they were a vile lot and of doubtful parent-
age. Then Gilda ran in clothed in a nightie
and revealed All.
Scene shifted to inn kept by Spara-
fucile and his handsome contralto sister
Maddalena. The Duke was putting in a
night there, and, of course, making love to
Maddalena. He sang a song, doubtless a
very old one, in which his own manifold
infidelities were inferentially excused by the
reflection that women are uncertain creatures.
Gilda, hovering outside with her dad, in a
most awful storm, heard him, and decided
he was a bad egg. She and papa contri-
buted asides to a duet between the Duke
and Maddalena, and did it so adroitly you
would scarcely credit the whole thing was
impromptu. The Duke went off to roost, still
singing.
Gilda learnt that Sparafucile, instead
of proposing to slit the Duke’s throat,
as agreed upon with Rigoletto, had been pre-
vailed upon by Maddalena to slay the first
person to come to the inn before midnight,
so that the old jester should at least have
a body for his money. Here was Gilda’s
big chance to prove the fallacy of the Duke’s
rihald song about feminine fickleness. She
was disguised as a boy—though, Lord love
you! we knew her. as soon as she opened her
mouth—and she tapped at the inn door.
Sparafucile did the rest. Rigoletto' was
given a body in a sack and gloated over it,
singing madly while the lightning flashed and
the rain descended in torrents. And thou
old Monterone’s curse got in its fine work.
The Duke was heard singing cheerfully his
eternal song about those ladies who are
changeable. Rigoletto opened the sack.
Little Gilda had enough life left to pipe a
few weak staves, which she did, and then
died. Papa expressed horror in G sharp
minor and swooned. As for the Duke and
Maddalena, they went off to pick buttercups,
and Sparafucile, with a well-lined purse,
polished his trusty sword ready for the next
occasion.
No, there isn’t any moral.
It has been ascertained that Gilda’s real
name is Lina Paliughi, that the Duke answers
to the name of Primo Montanari, that Rigo-
letto is Franco Izal to his friends, that Mad-
dalena was christened Grazia and belongs to
the family of Angelau. Sparafucile was an
alias for Albino Marone, and Michele Fiore,
c/o Her Majesty’s Theatre, will find the
Comte Monterone.
* # #
Puccini, in “Madame Butterfly,” attempted
to translate the emotions of Americans and
Japanese, about whom he knew, apparently,
very little, and probably cared less, into his
own Italianate musical idiom. He succeeded
from the standpoint of musicians who are
neither American, Japanese nor Italian, just
to the extent that a common denominator,
can be found for human nature. Incident-
ally. he created an atmosphere that is
Japanese to everyone but the Japanese, and
another that is American to everyone but
the Americans, and wove this pseudo-local
color into a fabric the warp and woof of
which are a highly idealised view of common
psychology. H’e resisted very sternly the
temptation to emphasise the inherent pathos
of the story with the grosser tricks of musi-
cal melodrama, though the book, especially
in those scenes in which the toddling child
is in evidence, gives plenty of incitement.
He drew his little Nagasaki heroine in lines
very tender and gracile, but very firm, and
it was just this delicate adjustment between
soft and hard that Signorina Valobra. who
took the part in the Williamson co.’s initial
Sydney performance of the opera, seemed
to find elusive. She was too often a diamond,
white, hard and bright, whereas an opal, sub-
dued yet capable of flashing gorgeous hues,
was called for. Nevertheless she interposed
between character and music only a filmy
veil, and her singing in the first act and in
the tragic finale was superb. Carlo Alfieri,
the Rudolfo to Valobra’s Mimi in “La
Bohbme,” sustained the more robust role of
Pinkerton satisfactorily, and Ilio del Chiaro
represented Puccini’s idea of an American
consul —morning coat, grey-striped pants and
spats for a social call—very understandingly
on the whole. But both he and Alfieri missed
the careless tone of their ornate introductory
duet, punctuated by an invitation to a
“veesky,” and declaimed the lines with as
much fiery elocution and gesture as would
have gone with a recitation of the Italian
equivalent for “Casabianca.” Grazia
Angelau’s Suzuki and Michele Fiore’s doubled
roles fitted smoothly into the picture, and
the curly pate of little Wanda Scales and
the youngster’s beautiful gravity captivated
everyone. Roy Glasheen, as Goro. fidgeted
about distractingly, but sang his lines well
enough. The orchestra, under Emilio Rossi’s
baton, was a trifle too self-assertive on occa-
sion, but on the whole gave the piece an
impressive foundation.
* * * *
A Queensland girl, Molly de Gunst, was
given her chance by the directors of the Wil-
liamson co.’s Sydney opera season, who
allotted her the title-r6le in a repeat per-
formance of “Aida.” The experiment proved
very successful. Miss de Gunst’s soprano is
AN OPERATIC MEDLEY.
Top: Primo Montanari, the Duke, and Franco Izal, the Jester ,
in “Rigoletto.”
Bottom: Carlo Alfieri, as Rudolfo in “La Boheme.” Molly de
Gunst, the Australian girl who made a big splash in “Aida!"
Cesarina Valobra braves the snow as Mimi.
sweet and clear, and though she has not
had the European training that is considered
essential for a prima donna she sang the
exacting music of her part not only cor-
rectly but with distinction. Action and
words were nicely blended, and the conflicts
of emotion that surge through the captive
princess’s breast were admirably portrayed.
The foreign members of the co. who were in
the audience, headed by Anna Surani, the
Aida of earlier performances, led the ap-
plause, and gave the Australian lass an ova-
tion after each of her big scenes. There was a
new Amneris, too —Grazia Angelau, who has
a less powerful voice than Signorina Cas-
tagna, but plenty of dramatic fire, which
found ample fuel in the poignant scene out-
side the Hall of Judgment in the last act.
X * X
“The Barretts of Wimpole-street,” which
had its Sydney premiere at the Cri. on
Saturday night, was received with many
evidences of appreciation by a large audi-
ence. Margaret Rawlings’s musical voice
and pretty smile. Barry K. Barnes’s vigor-
ous acting and E. Bellenden-Clarke’s char-
acter study of Elizabeth Barrett’s father were
high lights. The play may be described as an
attempt at the pathological interpretation of
biography, and it gets no nearer reality, so
far as the character of Edward Moulten-
Barrett is concerned, than do_ purely econo-
mic interpretations of events in the lives of
nations. The man is viewed from two
angles, both presenting him in a most odious
light, and the qualities which earned for
him, as far as the records go, the deep affec-
tion of the most gifted member of his family
are left entirely out of the picture. The
Robert Browning of the play dismisses him
brusquely as “in my opinion,. mad,” and the
playwright does his best, within limits im-
posed by the Lord Chamberlain’s censor, to
present him as the victim of an obsession
which would have earned for him a place in
the gallery of horrors of a Freud or a Have-
lock Ellis. Why the essay should be de-
scribed as a “comedy” isn’t clear unless we
moderns are supposed to have very grim
ideas of humor. Barrett undoubtedly was
a man of overbearing will, and a martinet
in his household, but that he was so petty,
spiteful and habitually vindictive as Besier
presents him is not credible. Neither is it
credible nor in any way essential to the
working out of the stage story to' suggest, as
is suggested, that Elizabeth Barrett’s depar-
ture from her home was hastened by an out-
break on the part of her parent which made
her feel unsafe beneath his roof.
x * *
Doris Fitton and her Independent Theatre
players celebrated Shakspeare’s birthday at
the Savoy Theatre, Sydney, with a produc-
tion of “Othello.” There was a slight stiff-
ness and rawness about the performance, but
the players, new to that sort of thing, showed
they have the root of the matter in them.
John Gould played Othello with a great
deal of strength and quiet dignity, and
Arthur Reardon made an lago who was life-
like sometimes and sometimes wooden.
Therese Desmond, as Desdemona, made fine
use of her charming voice. Doris Fitton
was the producer. “Othello” will be re-
peated on Saturday evening, and on the fol-
lowing Saturday will give way to “The Circle
of Chalk,” a Chinese play of the twelfth
century.
* X X
Paul Furniss wrote, produced and of
course played male lead in “Humoresque”
at the Four Arts Club’s little Sydney
theatre. He was Angelo, nephew of an
Italian puppet-showman in Soho (Loudon),
who dreams of a real flesh-’n’-blood theatre,
and tells uncle the story of the play he has
written, into which he has introduced
assorted relations and neighbors as charac-
ters. But it is later proved to Angelo that
in dramatising his life he has misjudged
everyone, including himself —in his own case
he even picked the wrong sweetheart. The
characters were interestingly presented and
the dialogue was natural.
* X X
Packed and enthusiastic houses surveyed
the five performances of Wilfrid Walter’s
“Happy and Glorious” at Melbourne King’s
last week. Part of the excitement was due
to the reputation Margaret Rawlings had
established during
the nine weeks of
“The Barretts of
Wimpole - street.”
Part was also due to
the outstanding act-
ing of Barry R.
Barnes, the poet
Browning of the pre-
vious production.
Some likewise went
to the apparently
new technique of the
present play, which
is in three acts and
15 scenes. The ori-
ginality is more ap-
parent than real. In
fact, it is a ease of
dramatic atavism,
like most so-called
new ideas upon the
stage. Shakspeare
used rapid scenic
changes to a modi-
fied , extent. The
talkies have gone one
better and use hun-
dreds in a single
piece. The 15 scenes
of “H ap p y and
Glorious” are really
individual sketches
with a connecting
theme. Some of
them are significant
and help the develop-
ment of the play.
Others are weari?
some, and the idea
conveyed could have
been better expressed
in a couple of lines
of dialogue. On the
whole, however, the
piece is interesting.
A Man and Woman,
symbols of the mas-
culine and feminine
attitudes towards
life, discuss on a
Sussex down the
.state of liberty in England in 1911.
The Woman, being a practical idealist, is an
ardent suffragette, and believes in the vote
as the panacea for the nation’s ills. The
Man believes in leaving practical affairs to
the trousered sex, and gets rid of his ideal-
ism by listening to the larks and contem-
plating the clouds. In the next scene the
Woman is haranguing the crowd in Trafal-
gar-square. Hecklers argue with her, some
of the arguments consisting of tomatoes and
such-like male appeals to the reasoning facul-
ties. In the next scene the Woman breaks
a shop window. In the next she is being
forcibly fed in a prison cell. The next
act begins in 1915. The Man has got into
khaki and is full of patriotic ardor. In
Scene 111, Act 2, which could easily be
deleted, he gets sentimental over a French
prostitute in a cafe behind the lines. The
girl has been international in the bestowal
of her favors, and has had a baby by a
German soldier, since when she has decided
that her mission is to' make the uniformed
victims of war forget. One of the soldiers
to whom, unknown to himself, she has pro-
vided this service is her own ex-fiance. In
Scene IY the Man is in the trenches. In
a moment of exaltation, due to a dream of
universal brotherhood, he exposes himself
and is partially blinded by an enemy bullet.
Act 111 is full of grim satire on the incur-
able frivolity of human nature. The Woman
is struggling to make a living in a post-war
teashop. The Man sells dress materials in
a draper’s shop to a dowager who got her
chief thrill out of Armageddon when an
air raid over London prostrated her favorite
lapdog with terror. She is interested to
know whether the Man enjoyed killing Ger-
mans, and in a fit of justifiable indignation
he twists a length of material round her
throat and nearly strangles her. A half-
blind, hunted and starving fugitive, he seeks
the old spot on the Sussex downs where he
used to listen to the larks. The Woman is
there, and, enraged by his despairing cyni-
cism, she hits him in the face. The shock
restores his sight, and the pair, with cour-
age renewed, turn to face the problems of
a new world little better than the old one.
The play has some brilliant moments, but
it required a better hand than Wilfrid Wal-
ter’s to mould the marble of realism and the
color of symbolism into a really profound
work of art. The scenic effects, compounded
of mathematical designs and ingenious light-
ing, were new to Melbourne, and were thor-
oughly impressive. Miss Rawlings and
Barry Barnes occupied the stage continu-
ously. Miss Rawlings is more the cultured
than intuitive artist. She has a cat-like
grace which reveals itself in every movement.
Barnes acts with genuine feeling.
Producer Gabriel Toyne's ballet, “Business
a la Russe,” served as curtain-raiser to the
three-hour evening. It was set in a modern
office. Lois Green, as Success-at-Fifty’s sec-
retary, works a typewriter whose keys were
the corps de ballet. Success-at-Fifty cuts off
his son (Robert Helpman) with the pro-
verbial shilling for kissing his secretary. He
then makes improper proposals to the
typist. The financial crisis interrupts the
amour, and Success-at-Fifty is strangled in
office tape. The prodigal son inherits the
business, and ends by becoming as hard-
boiled as his father. A delightful fantasy
that Pavlova would have liked to include in
her repertoire. A surprised row of Taits
watched the crowded houses ecstatically, con-
tradicting the Firm’s axiom that nothing
will go down with the Australian public un-
less it has been done a million times before.
“Whistling in the Dark,” the latest chal-
lenge flung at the talkies by J.C.W. at Mel-
bourne King’s, is all about guys. John,
Junior, is a writer guy. He writes moider
stories. AVith the inevitable fiancee (Maisie
Swan), he falls into the hands of a crowd
of gangster guys suffering from stomach
coughs. As the price of his release and the
goil’s virtue he is required to invent a per-
fect moider, armed with which the gangsters
will be enabled to bump off a commissioner
of police. After a night of titanic conflict
with his muse, the novelist evolves the bril-
liant scheme of mixing cyanide of potassium
with the commissioner’s dentifrice. To test
the efficacy of the plan Tal Ordell is obliged
to brush his teeth with the dope, and in
minutes is permanently cured of his
stomach cough. This is one of the only
two murders in the play, the other being the
assassination of commonsense. Some of the
gangsters having gone off to apply the plan
to the commissioner, the novelist spends a
dreadful night of remorse, only relieved when
he sees a radio receiving set and conceives
the brilliant idea of converting it into a
transmitting set by connecting it to some
telephone wires. He gets in touch with the
exchange, the commissioner is saved, the
police arrive, capture the gangsters and re-
lease the novelist, who falls into the arms
of his fiancee, who is the only person who
is not called a guy some time or other during
the piece. The guy present critic missed
most of all was Guy Fawkes. With his
experience he might have succeeded in blow-
ing up the King’s before the performance
began. A general election fought in an iron
tank or a Liedertafel with a cold in its col-
lective head would have been a musical treat
compared to “Whistling in the Dark.” After
listening to Carleton Stuart, Tal Ordell, John
Fernside, Harvey Adams, Stapleton Kent,
Reg Wykeham and Guy Hastings growl their
way through the three acts, this Showman
came to the conclusion that what American
Gangland really needs is a few baritones,
sopranos, tenors and lyrico spintos to give
it musical variety. Stapleton Kent, the boss
crook, was the worst offender in this re-
spect. His voice would have curdled the
milk; in a cow’s udder. Maisie Swan was
not much more than an animated grizzle, but
John, Junior, made a plausible pretence of
believing in himself as the novelist.
X X X
An elm-tree on a calm day has a certain
monotony. Stirred by a wind it reveals
hitherto unsuspected variations in color, tone
and form. Moiseiwitsch playing the Prelude
and Fugue in D Minor of Bach and the
“Appassionata” of Beethoven is like the
wind on the elm. He is that rare pheno-
menon—a virtuoso who remains a student
and makes you listen instead of merely feel.
You listen because you are not quite sure
what he is going to' say next, even when on
so hackneyed a theme as the “Appassionata.’
What he does say is often something which
seems quite fresh and which you don’t seem
to have heard said in quite that way before.
Even his Chopin is different. It is without
the usual speed, and brilliance is subordi-
nated t 0 thought and artistry. If the much-
improved pianist had abstained at Melbourne
Auditorium on Saturday from joining the
piano in two artistic sins, there would have
been nothing but favorable superlatives to
fire. But the “Tannhauser” overture, re-
duced for the pianoforte by Liszt, is a musi-
cal monstrosity, despite its dazzling clever-
ness ; and when Moiseiwitsch played the
“Butterfly” etude twice this Showman bit-
terly regretted he had left his Flytox at
home.
X X X
The heroine with the C 3 mind who wins
the hero with the A 1 bank account, or varia-
tions to that effect, is having another run
for her money in “The Irish Cinderella” at
Melbourne Palace this week. There is a
suspicion that, even with, the jam of Miss
Bramley’s excellent character-acting and the
backing of a capable company on them, these
slices of yesterday’s bread are apt to stick
in the theatregoer’s gizzard after a time.
Wherefore Miss B. is turning to' “Madame
X” on Saturday—not very fresh either, but
brown bread instead of white.
* X *
Cora O’Farrell, who sings Italian opera
in true British fashion, gave a second fare-
well concert at Melb. Auditorium last week.
Miss O’Farrell has a fine dramatic soprano,
but it is doubtful if much more will be
heard of her unless the faults of production,
which are remediable by training, and of
interpretation, which are not, are attended
to. Master George Henry, Melbourne’s
latest prodigy, played the violin with extra-
ordinary commonsense and musicianship for
a boy of 10. The commonplace overture by
the orchestra which concluded the show
sounded more like a monstrous hiccup than
anything else.


Flatulency
removed by
COLOSEPTIC
In these days of modern
foods and strenuous life the in-
testine becomes encrusted with
food waste, not properly evacu-
ated causing dreaded self-
poisoning ( autoxima ), the result
o f unsuspected constipation
from which nine out of ten un-
knowingly suffer. Germs and
poisons breed in this ferment-
ing, accumulated waste and
enter the blood stream causing
loss of nerve energy, depleted
vitality —• making you “old”
years before your time. Prac-
tically everyone nowadays is
more or less in the grip of
autoxima and it is this which is
the cause of one or more of the
serious faults in their health.
Serious sickness, aches and
pains will surely arise unless
this crust on the intestine is re-
moved and the body made in-
ternally clean. Temporary
measures only aggravate the
condition—the encrusted poi-
sonous matter must be cleansed
from the system. The prompt,
simple way to do this is to drink
COLOSEPTIC. Gently bu t
surely it first loosens and dis-
solves the fermenting matter off
the intestine, and then smoothly
passes it out of the body
without griping or inconveni-
ence. COLOSEPTIC activates
the kidneys, pores of the skin
and the respiratory apparatus—
thus ridding the blood stream of
all circulatory impurities.
Do you suffer from gas in the
stomach and bowels, constipa-
tion, weakness, headaches, indi-
gestion, backache, catarrh,
rheumatism, neuritis, eczema,
pimples, etc.? Drink COLO-
SEPTIC and watch your ail-
ments vanish like snow before
the sun. There is now no rea-
son why you should drag along
with sickness and ill-health.
You can regain that vigorous
vitality of youth—throb with
energy—radiate glorious health.
Prove it for yourself. Test the
powers of COLOSEPTIC by
sending 1/- in stamps or postal
note to COLOSEPTIC CO. LTD.
(Dept. E. 4.), 10 O’Connell
Street, Newtown, N.S.W., for a
Special Demonstration Jar and
the valuable health booklet
“Autoxima.” COLOSEPTIC is
sold in regular full-sized jars at
all Chemists and stores.
è
SHADOW SHOWS.
Movie directors periodically yank some
old silent, which never was any good, out of
Time’s lumber-room, give it an all-star cast,
spend thousands of dollars —or pounds, as the
case may be—on sets and photography, and
offer it to a dazed world as an up-to-date
talkie. Paramount’s “The Cheat,” at Sydney
Regent, is the latest manifestation of this
complex. It seems even more idiotic in its
present lavish form than it did a decade ago.
The beginning of the story, which concerns
a gambling wife who gets into the toils of
a lecherous villain, at least merits the respect
due to age. It is when the lady tries to
escape from the toils that the production goes
completely woozy. Tallulah Bankhead, whose
husband has become a millionaire over-night,
goes to Irving Pichel’s house to offer him
back the price of her shame. The incredible
ass, who has a cabinet full of dolls dressed
like the ladies who have, as he says, “been
kind” to him, has just added Tallulah’s to
the collection; he is so annoyed by her
defection that he smashes his new doll, gets
out his revolver, puts it where she can
easily grab it, tries to achieve his loathsome
ends by force, and gets shot. -He has only
been winged in the arm, but husband Harvev
Stephens rushes in, takes the blame and
figures in a cause c6l6bre, in which Piche],
sneering the hateful sneer of his kind, gives
evidence for the prosecution. The trial ends
with an impassioned harangue by Miss Bank-
head from the body of the court, the effect of
which is to cause all present, barring the
stupefied Judge and the police, to fall on
Pichel and attempt his life. The husband
is treed; he takes the lady to his arms and
she swears off gambling for ever. The only
justification for this rubbish can be that it
offers Miss Bankhead opportunities to display
almost every trick in her repertoire. She
is a gay society girl, an ardent wife, a wor-
ried gambler, a woman pleading for her
honor, and the justly indignant victim of
an unmanly persecutor in turn ; and she does
it all efficiently. She has a beautiful voice
and articulation. The other performers are
sound, and the photography is up to the
Paramount standard.
* #
Maorilander Lance Fairfax, who endeared
himself to Australian audiences in legit, by
his romantic figure, his fine singing and his
ability to sit a white cab-horse as the Red
Shadow in “The Desert Song,” is at a dis-
“The Beggar Student”
CB.D.h.), at Melb. Athenaeum; nevertheless,
he is the outstanding figure in a screen
musical, comedy which is frequently incom-
prehensible and often tedious and diffuse.
His clear, resonant voice emerges from the
machinery of reproduction practically un-
scathed. The picture suffers with others of
its sort in having to do violence to the
new tradition which the screen has built
up. Legit.-goers are quite inured to the
spectacle of a military prisoner breaking into
song while his guard stand appreciatively
at ease until their turn has come to join in
the chorus, but the film patron, accustomed
to more realistic methods, feels the uncom-
fortable intrusion of a manifest absurdity.
Shirley Dale makes an attractive Tania, but
her top notes are too much for the micro-
phone.
¥ * #
For his character work in “The Champ"
(M.-G.-M.; Sydney Capitol), Wallace Beery
earns the right to stand beside Marie Dress-
ier as an interpreter of elderly rbles. He
gives a well-rounded picture of a broken-
down boxer, one-time heavyweight champion,
getting a match in little border towns when
he can, but generally drunk or gambling,
dragging along his kid (Jackie Cooper) to
bring him luck. He worships the youngster,
and when he has a win of healthy propor-
tions buys the brat a racehorse—and gambles
it away. His divorced wife (Irene Rich),
now married to a millionaire, prevails on
him to let her take their child. But the
kid returns, just when the champ’s pro-
moters are fearing that he will never fight
again. Overjoyed he goes into training and
enters the ring against the local champion.
His facial contortions as body-blows are
hammered home over his failing heart are
terrible. He wins—to die in his dressing-
room. Jackie cries, stamps his feet and
bangs the walls to show his heart is breaking
before running into mother’s arms.
* * *
“Law and Order” (Universal), at Sydney
Haymarket, an excursion into the “Wild
West” of the ’nineties, sports no heroine.
Four pals with itchy trigger fingers descend
on the lawless town of Tombstone, and
their leader “Saint” Johnson (Walter
Huston) is prevailed upon to become marshal
He frustrates a lynching party, thereby
provoking the resentment of Tombstone’s bad
men. There follows a welter of shooting
m a stable, with plunging horses and dying
friend and foe. Johnson, who has resigned
his office before the scrap starts, alone sur-
vives, and rides slowly off. The text of the
sermon is: “You won’t clean up a lawless
city until you get a man with guts enough
to do the job.”
* * #
“Tell England” (British International),
which is drawing crowds of Diggers t 0 the
Sydney Lyceum, is a conventional tale of
war .comradeship, but presents very effec-
tively the stirring scenes at the Gallipoli
Landing and the grim fighting on the Penin-
sula. Edgar Doe (Carl Harbord) and
Rupert Ray (Tony Bruce), firm friends, are
officers in the same company. Doe, the more
imaginative of the two, is mortally wounded
while silencing an enemy gun. The film
finishes with a group of Turkish officers
strolling through the British lines after the
evacuation. They stop at Doe’s grave and
read the inscription, which requests who-
ever may read it to tell England that he
did his little bit.
# * *
“Lovers Courageous” (M.-G.-M.), at Syd-
ney St. James, provides Robert Montgomery,
who plays the lead, with a very fat part as
Willie Smith, the unruly younger son of an
English suburban family who leaves home
to knock around the globe. After a varied
experience he becomes a tobacconist’s assist-
tant in a small South African town. There
he encounters Mary (Madge Evans), the
daughter of a peppery admiral, and charms
her with his poise and idealism. Mary is
bustled back to England, where she is to
wed a country gentleman. But she hankers
after Willie, who has followed her to London,
and at the eleventh hour clears out and joins
him. Her father turns his back on the girl.
Willie is jobless, and the young couple ex-
perience a lean time, the upshot of which
is Mary’s return to her people. Happy end-
ing is achieved by making Willie write a
successful play.


South Africa and England
BY
THE BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
fEuripides . . 15,000 tons, May 3
;: Ascanius . . 10,000 ~ June 13
i'Themistocles 12,500 „ Sept. 6
*Nestor . . 14,500 „ Oct. 18
•First class only. fFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
Joint
Agents
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES-
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
ivonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fu9i
Detonators
Cartridges
MORSE CHAIN DRIVES
SILENT ROCKER-JOINT
Overcome all transmission troubles—Ensure maximum life.
Highest efficiency—Minimum wear.
Chains in stock manufactured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars /and Booklet 8M414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA, LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N.S.W.
Queensland: EVANS, DEAKIN & CO., LTD., Brisbane.
Victoria: THE WESTINUHUUSE BRAKE CO. OP AUSTRALASIA, LTD., Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
South Australia: ELDER, SMITH & CO.. LTD., Adelaide.
The Daily Mail
Brisbane
One of Australia’s
Great Dailies
is a newspaper of which the people of
Queensland are justly proud. It is bright
and reliable. It presents the latest local,
Interstate and world-wide news to its
readers in a manner generally conceded to
be the most attractive of any Queensland
daily.
Its circulation statements have always
been dependable and supported by the right
kind of proof. By unaccepted challenge
its circulation has been proved greater than
any other daily in the State. It is cer-
tainly an unsurpassed advertising medium.
Rate cards, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 81522.
ABORIGINALITIES
“FY7": Queensland, which some years
ago shut down on “scalp” bonuses for mar-
supials and dingoes, has resolved to revive
the system as far as the dogs are concerned.
The amount will be only 35., of which the
Government will find 2s. and the District
Improvement Boards; the extra bob. It is
doubtful if the offer will bring adequate
results. The man who is successful in col-
lecting the scalp of the modern dingo, usually
a hybrid with all his ancestral cunning
added to by an admixture of civilised collie
or kelpie blood, honestly earns a lot more
than that. In the days of the old dingo
boards the payment was a pound a head.
Many station owners added to this. The
Australian Pastoral Co., for instance, paid
as much as £5 for a dog and £1 for pups.
Writer knew a very clever black stockman
w r ho made a good living at this game by
matching his cunning against that of the
dogs. His specialty was the discovery of
the tracks of a lady dog in , that condition
which, according to Byron, marks those
ladies who truly love their lords. He tracked
her to the hollow log which was to be
her lying-in place and waited for the event.
That over, he would shoot the mother and col-
lect the orphaned family. Result, anything
up to a tenner, given ordinary luck.
❖ ❖ *
“Booraby”: Not much heard of now is
the ’possum dog. You wandered along on a
moonlight night while Rover looked for the
’possum. Having found one, he squatted
under the trees and barked. But the good
dog took a lot of training, and when he had
passed his examination he was highly prized
—and sometimes stolen. You had to know
the peculiarities of the yapper wdien ’pos-
suming. There was the dog that barked at
owls and at anything in hollow logs; where-
as the respectable ’possum dog was required
to have a discriminating sense. He had to
ascertain what kind of creature he had dis-
covered, and whether it had to be barked at
or not. There was the dog that barked
only once at a tree, and if not found in a
couple of minutes went hunting elsewhere.
There was the specialising dog, who barked
in one way at a native cat, in another at.
a ’possum, a third at a snake, and so on.
He was a canine genius, a good mate to a
man who understood his repertoire. And
there were the brute that got wildly excited
whenever he found anything, if it was only a
jew lizard, and the fool mongrel that w 7 ent> a
mile away and barked under a vacant tree,
and when found trotted off wagging his tail
as if he enjoyed the joke. But the most
aggravating hound was one that would follow
.a flying squirrel and yap at it, from tree
to tree, for half the night.
NO TRUCK WITH THEY ANGLICANS.
GENIAL ANGLICAN PARSON: “Well, good night, Mr. Trevarrow. I must be hurrying
on home. It's time all good preachers were in bed.”
ME. TREVARROW (a good Methodist) : “And most like they be, Maister Surplice.
“Innisfree” : Tell “Padriag” that there is
no need to go in for long tongue-twisting
sentences to find out whether the cove he
has run in is inked (B. 13/4/’32). All he
has to do is to ask the subject to say “mixed
biscuits” several times.
“H'uffin-Guffin” : On the site of
a western Vic. sheep station,
taken up in 1839, the only traces
left of the original homestead and
garden are three giant pear-
trees, probably planted in 1840.
They are from 2ft. Gin. to 3ft. in
diameter at 3ft. or 4ft. from the
ground, and have a limb spread of
about 100 ft. A soldier-settler,
who now occupies the “home-
station” block of the old estate
gathers each year quite a good
crop of fruit from the trees. But
as a pig-yard has been built
around them it isn’t likely they
will long continue to bear.
“Waranbini” : Water stones
(chalcedonies) are found in many
places in the Richmond and
Tweed Rivers (N.S.W.) and some
of the rocky beds of the feeding
creeks. Many fine specimens
were got under the falls at
Casino, where we used to dive for
hours for them on Sunday morn-
ings. A buyer visited the town
periodically, and dozens of the
town boys ' became amphibians
during his stay. The stones are
semi-transparent, with a moving
drop of water in the centre. They
range from the size of a marble
to that of a hen’s egg. These
stones were evolved from bubbles
in liquid basalt ; water and silica
in solution entered the bubble
cavity, and the silica was de-
posited around the walls, harden-
ing and imprisoning the water.
But the gem thus formed was
itself imprisoned in solid rock,
until the rushing and tumbling
waters, in the course of centuries,
perhaps, set it free, and the prized chalce-
dony went rolling down the river.
“Wandi”: The praying mantis, which gets
its name from the devout attitude it assumes
on a branch or twig, has been termed the
tiger of the insect world, and that term is
particularly applicable to Mrs. Mantis, who
has a vicious habit of gobbling up her hus-
band if he isn’t constantly alert. She has
the look of a motionless stick and her
patience seems inexhaustible. She will -wait
for hours, and when a fly or a moth eventu-
ally comes within reach the sharp-spiked front
legs shoot out and grab it. The mantis is often
confused with the phasma, which has notches
or spines only on the hind legs, whereas the
mantis has spikes only on the front legs.
Another difference is that the phasma is a
vegetarian. These insects are of the “walk-
ing-stick” or “walking-leaf” group, so clever
at camouflage as to deceive birds, but while
the camouflage of the phasma is wholly pro-
tective, that of the mantis is mainly aggres-
sive. s
*
“Cowongnat”: Jacky had been working
for Mac Sporran. When he swaggered into
Gaminudge’s store to do in his six months’
screw, the paucity of it made Gammudgo
ask “How did Mr. Mac Sporran treat you.
Jacky? Tucker good?” “Sly oath!” replied
.Tacky, loftily. “’E even puttit pepper ’n’
salt on ev’ry meal!”
:J; * # . ❖
“Kiriwina”: If “Te Kaben,” in his next
adventure in the Western Pacific, wants to
see real sailing canoes, (B. 13/4/’32) lie
should take a trip round the Louisiades, lying
off the south-eastern extremity of Papua.
The great trading canoes of the Trobriands,
for instance, can be backed to lick anything
that ever came out of the Gilberts, where the
native craft, from what I have seen and heard
of them, would be utilised in the Louisiades
for dinghies. These big fellows, with their
great mat sails, carry many tons of yams and
other trading cargo throughout the scat-
tered island group. All their planking is
sewn with coir, not a nail entering into their
composition. As to their speed, off a'wind
they can beat any European sailing craft —
and there were some good ones there in my
time, including the late Jack Want’s, racing
cutter the Guinevere, then owned by Christy
Sorenson. On the wind they made too much
leeway, being without keels. I saw one
chase the old B.P. steamer Ysabel to put a
trader passenger aboard, and the canoe
overhauled the old cockroach-infested tramp
as if she were standing still. Yet at her
top, with the south-east trade behind, the
Ysabel has been logged to kick up eight
knots.
THE WORKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I came down here from Gumbaree a sick
man, that’s me luck:
Stretched out four w 7 eeks in hospital—you’d
say a fair lame duck;
Some w r ays you wouldn’t be so far astray.
There’s only Billy on the farm an’ twenty
cows in milk,
An’ Billy’s hands on cows they ain’t exac’ly
hands o’ silk;
Still I struck a patch o' luck another way.
There’s a filly workin’ in the ward —just
“Nurse” to ev’ryone—
An’ she’s that quick upon her jobs she does
’em on the run.
My way o’ speech may seem a trifle queer,
But put. her in a heavy team, or put her at
a fence,
She’s in the collar, on the bit, with evei'y
muscle tense,
An’ all you’ve got to do is sit an’ steer.
It’s a treat to watch her swing her bonny
brown arms, round an’ strong;
For her no task’s too heavy an’ no day
appears too long.
You may think I’m just a sentimental goat,
An’ say i don’t know women, but of this
I’ll take my oath:
She’s as staunch as she is lively, an’ when
yon see one both,
That one’s the horse or girl that gets my
vote.
She comes in with the daylight an’ “How
are you to-day?”
“Good morning, Mister Wirefence.” An’
when you hope she’ll stay,
An’ hunt for some excuse, she’s gone again.
I think of roustin’ Billy out to work in
winter-time,
An’ thoughts of Billy, after her, seems some-
thin’ like a crime;
The bare ideer brings on my shootin’ pain.
An’ I lie here seein’ visions like a man that’s
took to drink.
Oh yes. I’m sentimental, but it makes me
think an’ think
Of that little farm out back of Gumbaree,
THE ARISTOCRAT.
BOUNDARY-RIDER: “That dog got a pedigree, Jacky?"
JACKY: “You bet! I sell him three time—he always come back. Common white-
pfeller’s place no good to him!"
An’ them cows an' calves an' heifers all in
clumsy Billy’s care:
It’s enough to give one spasms; somehow it
don’t seem fair.
I wish she’d take a job for life with me.
s.a. William James Wikefence.
By his next friend, BILL O’C.


Queensland
Insurance Go,
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex-
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
hGUsP
s.
6
D.
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
SPORTS TROUSERS
Ready-to-wear Cream
Wool Gabartwill Sports
Trousers, beautifully
finished and smartly cut
with belt to match in
cream or calf. Send
inside leg and waist
measurement with order.
PRICE per pair, 32/6
Send your order to Desk S.B.
Pike Brothers Ltd.
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
“Burradoo”: The land knows when rain
is coming. The pores of the soil open like
expectant little mouths, and when rain falls
dry land swallows it greedily. The moisture
goes down. The pores of the soil are not
open to let moisture go down when it is fine.
Then the moisture is travelling upwards.
Every gardener knows that the ground will
not swallow the water from hoses and sprays
the way it soaks up rain, and that it is the
dickens of a job to get dry soil properly wet.
Plants know when rain is coming, too. There
is a physiological change in the plant, just
as there is in the hungry man or beast anti-
cipating a feed. Moral seems to be that the
most efficient way of applying water artifi-
cially is from underneath, not from on top.
* $ * *
“Icthus”: Australian geologists have been
mightily interested in the discovery of an
entirely new species of fossil
fish near Richmond, a hamlet
on the Flinders River in north-
west Queensland. Australia, so
rich in other types of fossil
'remains,! is sadly lacking in
those of cretaceous fish, and the
latest discovery belongs to this
family. It naturally appeals to
people who think more of such
discoveries than of picking the
winner of “th’ larst” at the
ponies, especially as the speci-
men exhibits characteristics
hitherto unsuspected of its kind,
and considered likely to throw
a new light on the classification
of fishes. Speaking as a fisher-
man, and not as an ichthyolo-
gist, the writer considers he has
made a discovery of his own
which is not without import-
ance. The fossil indicated a fish
of four or five feet long, and
weighing anything between SO
and 100 pounds. It is not a
very wild surmise to conjecture
that this strange specimen is the
original Fish That Got Away.
ft ft
“Cooramin”: It seems strange that a
person who has not been taught to swim has
not even the dog’s instinct to paddle when
he falls in or gets out of his depth. Throw
a dog into water ; and though it has never
been wet before it will easily swim ashore.
It holds its nose too high, and splashes with
its front paws through trying to climb on top,
but it soon gets out of that. It uses its
feet in the same way as it does on land, and
if the human tyro were to kick and claw in
similar fashion he could save himself in
most cases. If he used his reasoning powers
he should be able to reach a near bank as
well as a cow or a horse. A cow will swim
miles at the first asking, and even the emu
and the cassowary can put up a good per-
formance, and they are no better fitted by
nature for natation than man. But the
uninitiated loses his head the instant he
gets out of his depth, so much so that he
clnt-ehes and hampers the person who goes
to bis rescue.
THE FLY IN THE OINTMENT.
THE ROMANTIC MAIDEN : “Wouldn’t it be lovely if our men were allowed only one
wife, like the white people!”
THE PRACTICAL MATRON: “Oh, would it! Why, a poor girl would never have her
husband’s eyes off her!”
RELIGIOUS SCRUPLES.
CIRCUS PROPRIETOR: “What’s all this ’ere bother with the sword-swallower?"
RINGMASTER: “He’s become a Roman Catholic, and says he won’t work on Fridays
now, sir, unless we get him a swordfish.”
“Nakhoda”: A Queensland axeman who
suffered from a severe skin malady as a result
of his legs being splashed w T ith the sap of the
tar-tree evidently lacked the necessary anti-
bodies for repelling the infection. In Borneo
there are several trees, of com-
mercial value, whose sap is
highly poisonous and causes irri-
tation even without direct con-
tact. The natives who work the
timber never experience any
trouble, though a white man or
a native from another district
will succumb immediately. The
black Ningpo varnish, so highly
prized for its durability that it
is even used in foreign hotels,
is especially potent. When my
hotel in Shanghai was being
painted, guests were warned
that they occupied their rooms
at their own peril. I tried one
night of it and was lucky to
suffer no more than an intense
irritability. There is a painters’
guild whose members are evi-
dently immune, though whether
they acquire immunity through
practice, are born that way or
take something for it was a
trade secret.
$ $ $
“Mundowie”: Kangaroo-tail
soup has been variously de-
scribed as good, bad, and indif-
ferent. It all depends on the
quality of the tail. An expert
in this branch of cookery was
Wompy, who was cooking one
year at a Paroo woolscour. The
appendages were brought in by
a couple of the potstiekers, who
went hunting for pelts on Sun-
days. Wompy’s strong point
was “ ’roo-tail jelly,” which the
men called stickjaw. He dis-
carded the swinger of the old-
man Too. which he placed in the
same category as that of an old
bull, and any that were not fat.
The rest were dumped in a pot
and boiled to shreds. The re-
sultant soup was so full of jelly
that when the lips were closed
a while on it they stuck.
Wompy liked the jelly cold, and
set pannikins of it like brawn.
When he was eating it you could
hear the smack of his jaws 10
yards off.
“C. Coral”: The reduction-of-hours move-
ment is introduced to Jimmy Susu, of Torres
Strait. “Yes, one thing I can’t understand
proper. Before, when white man he no been
come this place, we work along garden and
sail about along canoe, and make house
and do plenty thing. Then white man he
come and he tell we— ‘You must work
plenty; find plenty pearlshell and all kind
thing, and make plenty money for get calico
and sewing-machine and axe, and some
’nother kind thing all same white man.’
That Guv’ment he cut out wages belong we,
for pay things belong our island, and he
tell we—‘Work more hard, and make plenty
money.’ Now’ this time some ’nother
white man tell us different way. He show
us some newspaper and he tell we ‘What’s
matter you work like that? White man
fashion, he only work eight hour one day,
and he make plenty holiday. You fella
proper fool!’ Some boys they been go south,
and tell us about white man strike when
wages he no come up big enough. What
you think? Some white man he say ‘You
lazy, you gotta work plenty,’ and ’nother
white man he speak and say ‘You no listen
that one, you look along clock and take
proper fashion belong white man.’ No, wo
can’t understand that one. Somebody
make fool along we, I think.”
*** , *
“Enid”: Native bees are still plentiful
in parts of N.S.W. In the Pilliga Scrub
around Gwabegar I have seen three and
four nests in a single tree. These bees chiefly
suck prickly-pcar flowers : and that’s where
they have the pull over their imported com-
petitors. Deep down in the flower of the
pear is about a quarter of a teaspoonful of
honey. This is protected by a narrow orifice
that larger bees cannot enter. I have col-
lected nine pounds of strained honey from
the nest of one swarm in a prickly-pear dis-
trict. The native bees use a good deal of
pine resin in the construction of their honey-
comb, and they seal the entrance to their
nests with wax each night.
* * * *
“Erua”: At Coulburn (N.S.W.) recently
n. Queen Alexandra parrakect, owned by Miss
McDonald, died at an age estimated at
anything from 40 to 50 years. The bird
had an interesting history, having been
brought from Centralia by the MacDonald
brothers during their famous trek from Goul-
burn to the Fitzroy River, North Wostralia,
where they established their cattle station,
Fossil Downs. The Queen Alexandra parra-
keet is among the most beautiful of Aus-
tralian birds, and combines an amazing
range of pastel tints with vivid apple-green,
purple, rose and blue, the long slender black
tail feathers being edged with pink and
iridescent green. The just-dead bird had an
astonishing repertoire, singing, whistling,
talking and mimicking with facility, and dnr-
ing his long captivity never lost the curious
habit these birds have in their wild state of
lyi“8 lizard-like along a bough (m this
case a perch), an idiosyncrasy that has puzzled
ornithologists ever since the bird was known,
Sydney Museum will harbor the remains of
iii 6 rarity.
THE STONY-BROKE PROSPECTOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They showed the lady visitor around the
mining town;
From quite a lot of vantage points she
viewed it up and down.
The mines whence tons of gold have come,
the solid-built Town Hall,
The spacious recreation ground—she saw
them one and all.
She marvelled at the stately streets, with
shops well up to date,
Where forty years ago was bush, forbidding,
desolate.
The courts, the schools, the churches, all
were eloquently stressed;
And be sure the noble racecourse left her
properly impressed.
They showed her spots to which historic
interest adheres, _
Including the memorials to gallant pioneers;
And when the settlement was still a hectic
mining camp,
Just where a Premier was jabbed a tergo
with a gamp.
“And see that gum the axe has spared?” they
told her earnestly—
It looked a gaunt and grim and undistin-
guished sort of tree —
“Beneath it Hannan pitched his camp and
rested for a while,
And slept the night before the day he found
the Golden Mile.”
She gazed absorbed upon that humble rest-
ing-place, and fast
Her fancy doubtless travelled back into the
storied past.
“Poor man,” she cooed, “I understand his
sorry plight too well;
Of course he couldn’t afford to take a bed
at a hotel!”
N.s.w.
PIPARDS.


POWER OF THE PENNY
How many realise, genuinely and understandingly realise, the
power of the penny?
The old exhortation, “Take care of the pennies and the pounds
will take care of themselves,” has more significance than most
of us realise.
Think it out—better still, try it out —the steady, sincere con-
servation of the small coins, the proper practical appreciation
of the value of small things, and their cumulative qualities.
Save the pennies, and the pounds, too, if you can, but let
the Savings Account take care of them for you.
That is the better way by at least 3 per cent, per annum.
fcmoiiwealtl) Savings JBank of Australia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government .)
A
Better Plugs for
Better Performance
Pyrox Plugs are made in
Australia to Bosch standards
by Bosch production methods
—that’s why they are better!
e
Sold by all
Garages and
Accessory Houses
Manufactured by
PYROX PTY. LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
SMOKE-OH!
Tin l TJ.A.P. now thinks of it as the Garni-
shee-he-he Act.
NOT THOSE SCALES AT ALL!
“He was that long—oh, a whopper!”
“You shouldn’t ha’ rushed him. You should ha’ played him!”
“Played him! When I go to fish Igo to catch fish, not planners!”
“There will, indeed, be something rotten in the
state of Denmark if it can’t make suitable arrange-
ments with England in regard to the dairying trade.”
And something rotten in the state of Ire-
land if it can.
¥ ¥
“Some women accept seats on trams without a
word of thanks.”
The French call them Les belles dames
sans “Merci.”
¥ ¥
PLEA FOR PATRIOTISM.
What of the Local Product?
“Mrs. Norman Lindsay, who returned by the
Mongolia, told an interviewer that her stepson had
written to ‘Al’ Capone offering his services, on the
ground that the Capone gang offered the best
chance for an ambitious young man.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
“Pal” Morone, Darlinghurst’s Big Shot,
writes. —This is but another instance of the
tragic preference shown by Australia’s
Younger Set for the foreign article. I make
bold to say, sir, that my King’s Cross
Academy, with its flourishing branch in
Auckland (M.L.), is equal, if not superior,
to anything Chicago can show. My Graft
Classes are presided over by a former City
Alderman, who made £50,000 out of a single
ramp. The Dean of my Racketeering
School has had 10 years’ experience in
the Tin Hare game without a conviction.
Lectures on Bribery and Corruption, both
Parliamentary and Aldermanic, are delivered
by an experienced staff of Domain Orators,
who also attend to the important Sob Stuff
Side. I have seen a garrotter weep tempes-
tuously in open class at references to dole-
drawers, and a few moments later reach for
his knife in uncontrollable indignation at
strictures on the taxpayers who supply the
dole-money. I come, last but not least, sir,
to athletics. Putting on the Spot, a most
important feature of my curriculum, is
taught in healthy, open-air surroundings,
reminiscent of the playing fields at Eton. The
area, in addition to its harbor views, easterly
aspect and freedom from police supervision,
is provided with ingeniously contrived alley-
ways, passages, clumps of bushes and the
like, from whose picturesque shadows ani-
mated figures dressed to resemble capitalists
may be hit with bottles, knifed, stoned,
bombed, etc., etc. The Shooting Gallery,
with its motto emblazoned over the door.
“Dead Men Tell No Tales,” is a popular
feature. Our efficient Games Master is
“Darky” Bludyer, skipper of the winning
Basher Gang (“The Auburn Beauties”) in
the recent Timber Strike (A Grade) Com-
petition. A prospectus is being sent to the
“S. M. Herald,” and it is hoped that all
stepmothers of ambitious young Aussies will
give it their kind consideration.
* *
She took the wrong turning—a happening
sad,
Though never imagine that Bella was had —
Gave a deafening scream, and distractedly
fled;
She'd unwittingly entered the men's dress-
ing shed!
Tariff Board's motto: Wo expect that
Australia this day will do in her duty.
¥ ¥
In view of the row that threatens between
the South and North in Ireland the name
might appropriately be changed to British
Umpire.
¥ ¥
“The Field divorce case is the only one in history
that lasted over both the Easter and Christmas
vacations.”
If such suits become general plaintiffs will
be asking for damages on the ground that
they are now several husbands in arrears.
THE POSTPONED TRIP.
“I’ve cancelled the steamer-tickets, Girlie.
I ain’t got the nerve to go.”
“But you can keep yer life-preserver, or
a bottle, or something o’ that sort ’andy,
Spike; an’ look what a bosker revolver-shot
you are. Come to that, I’m not so dusty with
a gat meself.”
“Look at the practice them other coves
gets, not ter mention the sheilas. They’d put
it orl over us.”
“I’d set me mind on the trip. Spike. A
girl like me could pick up a lot of wrinkles
from that crowd—l mean in the smash-
an’ grab line.”
“Don’t I know it, Girlie, an’ ain’t I
anxious to learn from ’em myself? Why,
their way of bashing the Johns is an eddica-
tion in itself; but, as I says before, I ain’t
game. They’re too lawless and bloodthirsty
altogether for yours truly. No; me mind’s
made up. We’ll have to stay on in the ’Loo
an’ give the main street of Auckland a miss
till them Enn Zed bourjoos get a bit more
civilised-like.”
¥■ ■ ¥
“The ‘Manchester Guardian’ says either Mr. de
Valera is heading for separation or he is not.”
• -—“Herald.”
The “Manchester Guardian” alwmys did
have a reputation for cautious accuracy,
EXCLUSIVE RECONSTRUCTIONS OF
BLOOD-CHILLING CRIME.
(Also Reconstructions of Exclusive Recon-
structions. )
The two were friends, comrades of many
a joyous quest, and on the fatal night in
question had decided to fare
forth in his dashing little car
—one that he, at least, be-
lieved, right or wrong, to be
capable of a high rate of
speed. The_ attractive sports
roadster —-for such, we have
discovered it was —looked in
great fettle, its graceful body
gleaming from a .skilled and
arduous wash and polish.
Tyres, spark-plugs, ignition
system, petrol supply, had all.
we arc enabled to disclose,
been inspected, and duly
passed as “fit for service.”
The self-starter —a Bingley-
Smith model slightly the
worse for wear, as was hot
surprising seeing it was
no longer brand - new is
pressed....
Reconstruction of Exclusive
Reconstruction. —Went for a
drive.
The orchestra of Heaven
crashed to the roll of drums,
and intermittent flashes of
lightning illumined horrifi-
cally the sombre Australian
countryside. God’s tears
drenched the sodden N. S.
Wales terrain. Gum-trees, we
are in a position to inform
our readers, dripped and occa-
sionally shed their leaves. And ever and
anon, above the thunderous diapason of the
storm, could be heard a passing train, the
eerie hoot of a vagrom motor-’bus. A dis-
tant clock strikes 6 p.m.
Reconstruction.- —Wet evening.
H'as the State the right to take human
life? Should the malefactor, howsoever de-
based, be loaded with the gyves of shame,
and led tottering, as erst in childhood’s inno-
cent days he tottered, to that bourne of
’wood, of iron, of hemp, from which no
traveller returns —unless, of course, the rope
suspending the traveller breaks several times,
a most unlikely occurrence? Should a masked
ghoul bandage the condemned’s panic-dis-
traught eyes, and hurl him through a trap-
door to eternity? We offer no definite opinion
one way or the other. All we are at present
in a position to exclusively reveal is that,
under the dispensation of Labor, the doc-
trine of aii eye for an eye and a tooth for
a tooth is a dead letter, the sentence of
death a solemn hypocrisy.
Reconstruction. —No hanging in N 1 S.
Wales.
* *
“Plaintiff, a plasterer, fell from a scaffolding and
fractured his skull. Compensation, £5O, was awarded.”
Like Lucifer, in dungarees he fell.
And landed with a thump upon his nob.
Though stars he saw, I simply cannot quell
The thought: I wish it also paid me well
To fall down on my job!
P.
* *
“My husband never paid any attention to my
wishes. Frequently when I asked him to bring home
steak from the butcher’s, he brought liver instead.”
—Divorce plaintiff.
Everyone knows it’s impossible to live on
love, and it seems to be equally difficult to
love on liver.
¥ ¥
“Trotsky is now decrepit and bankrupt.”
What one might call a broken Red.
¥ ¥
“Archbishop Duhig is building his big Brisbane
cathedral of artificial stone which is said to be
everlasting.”
An additional advantage is that most of
his flock love the sham-rock.
¥ -t*
“Wanted to purchase, 12 cheap greyhounds, for
rabbiting.”— “S.M.H.” advt.
No hares apparent.
¥ *
“Hundreds are jumping the rattler daily all over
Australia.”
It looks as if the railways were being
used on a large scale at last.
NIGIITMARES OF THE WEEK.
Dr. Brad'field, —The Harbor dries up.
Wizard Smith, —The beach becomes fit to
race on.
N.S.W. Police Officer. —Finds he has
ragged Jock Garden in mistake for a New
Guardsman.
Mr. Lyons. —Mr. Lang is elected for
another term.
Business Man.- —Mr. Lang is elected for
another term.
Mr. Lang.— Mr. Lang is elected for
another term.
P.
BEYOND WORDS.
“I hope you were successful with the cocktails, dear.
Anyone congratulate you on ’em?”
“Oh, they were such a success, Dad, nobody could.”
“A woman’s place is in the home.”
But how many these sporting days are
content with a place?
¥ ¥
“Prosecutor said there were places in Surry Hills
where methylated spirits was served in mugs.”
And to them.
¥ ¥
EXPLAINED.
HUSBAND: “ Your'e fifty times more jealous
than I am.”
WIFE: "That’s because I’m fifty times less
conceited.”
HER DISABILITY.
“As a matter of fact, when the young man does
assort himself and marry the girl, one feels sorry
for him ; for she has shown the common streak in
her nature only too well.”— “S. M. Herald” movie
criticism.
The Bright Young ,Thing admittedly was
chic;
In any kind of clothes she looked a trick;
Whether dressed for movie dramas,
Or in shorts or beach pyjamas,
She hit the roving eye like half a brick.
But she had a grave defect;
You have guessed it, I expect;
In the local id-i-om
She was Com.
Soon each Harry, Dick and Tom
Were compelled to recognise
That, in gentlemanly eyes,
She was Com.
Hor face, though not the sort that launches
ships,
Appealed alike to lads and white-haired rips,
While her humor was so winning
That males lost all dread of sinning,
And roared with laughter at her merry quips.
But in spite of her S.A.
Critics soon began to say
(It became, an ax-i-om) :
“She is Com.”
One heard it from Woollahra to the Dorn,
Genteel worshippers all flew,
Once they definitely knew
She was Com.
D.
HER HAT.
“Fruit-salad trimming is the newest departure in
spring hats, every fruit being utilised. The hats
may be wreathed in garlands of lemons, oranges,
red and black currants, raspberries, grapes or
bananas, intertwined in leaves.”— Cable.
Maude looks so dainty and so fair
With pawpaws in her hat.
Though water-melons balanced there
Suggest an acrobat,
Bananas in a luscious wreath
Accentuate the peach beneath.
Iter lid a pleasant salad blends
Of passion-fruit and pear;
A spray of custard-apples lends
New fragrance to her hair.
.No orchard hat can mar her beauty,
For Maude herself is tutti frutti.
NORBELL.


n
m
mmrn
I*l
: '±2*
1 $
AMERICA
The World Between Two Seas
HP HE castanets of Old Spain still
clack in California ... San
Francisco’s Chinatown holds the
scented breath of the Orient ... in
New Orleans Bouillabaisse is served
with a Gallic accent . . . northern
soil is tilled by scions of Viking
forebears ... while over New Eng-
land’s hedgerows linger the tradi-
tions of Old England.
Diverse origins, yet a united people.
Diverse scenic marvels, united in
beauty.
Providing the fullest opportunity to
see all the diverse aspects of Amer-
ica is the surpassing service of her
railways. Frequent trains in every
direction—comfort assured by the
most modern appointments—cour-
teous, personal attention that facili-
tates every arrangement. You may
cover an extensive itinerary at sur-
prisingly low cost.
Plan your visit to England to include
America, reached on swift Matson
liners via New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa
and Hawaii to San Francisco. A
free illustrated booklet will gladly
be sent upon request.
Write to Dept. Al.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL AND
INFORMATION BUREAU
12 Bridge St., Sydney. Tel. B 7981-3
Where moun-
tain climbers
are in their
glory.
COMING
OVERSEAS EVENTS
NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE
CONVENTION
Honolulu ... May 4to 6, 1932
EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS
Dublin, Ireland, June 23 to 26,
1932
Book via MATSON for the ut-
most in travel comfort, pleasure
and convenience.
Below: New Year's Day cele-
bration in San Francisco's
Chinatown—like a scene in old
Peiping.
5
■> : y, &
X '
V 1
» *
"*' >v
....... V.
m*. m
m ; ™': •
0
aft . $
?,:x
m
m
r’
? >
g?::@Bt;S
¥:■<
B 1
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay•
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartment?
may be secured separately by the da}
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
It’s up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
NEWSPAPERS LEAD THE WAY
♦
Where Advertising Pays
Countless advertisers throughout the world have found by experience that
the really profitable method of advertising is by use of newspapers consist-
ently and conspicuously. Mr. Buchanan Taylor, the well-known English
publicity expert, recently told the Edinburgh Publicity Club that:—
"No advertising medium has yet been discovered that can seriously
compete with the newspaper. The other media are adjuncts, sometimes
necessary for a complete campaign, but no commodity can be solidly
established without the aid of the columns of the daily and weekly journals.
The weekly newspaper undoubtedly has the greatest reader value, arid the Perth “Sunday
Times” is probably read by nearly' 175,000 people, since it is estimated that each copy is read
by five people. The circulation of a paper like the “Sunday Times,” with :ts appeal to all
sections of the community, is remarkable, because the paper is handed or posted on to friends
in W.A. and other States of the Commonwealth. The advertising value of such a medium is
tremendous, and the volume of representative advertising carried by this journal each week is
excellent testimony to its capacity to create markets for its advertisers.
Undoubtedly the newspaper leads the way in advertising; it is swift,
appealing and, considering the territory covered together with the effective
results achieved, is easily the cheapest method of advertising known in any
part of the world.
GILBEY
sugges-GINS
oggest 0 ggest
4*
A
. . . that when you
wish to enjoy a
cold, the best way
is to inhale a hearty
jorum of GILBEY’S
hot, with lemon
and sugar to taste.
ThiS/advice is not
to//be sneezed at.
a%>'\
a 7* •
Vs (
Si*
V
n
wm.
m
m
If -
>s
i
V
-
•:/ -
■ <*
I'/- -
m
0 r
T~
:<\ -o-;.yy L -
-0 6-1 lo
ilitaßliliief
f.P />' ' jl'.P -
- o
IMI
r-H-i
0Y APPOINTMENT
TO HMTHE KINO
r*6TTLec*==
k/fl&ANTeen
=w*A ciißett
rtnOL UHS
VTA C.iw
SL
CHHFWW^
lfpjjl
rktfi tx-itcl* ttffvfSi
.te.
CasHc GE.
c p,
DRY GIN
—sT.aa-zBgs
32 -»
Don’t say Gin ,
say
BIG ADVERTISERS use
this great paper.... exclusively
The Brisbane "Courier” is read in every corner of Queensland:
read for its authentic news, its authoritative articles, and for its
sound guidance on all public questions. Big advertisers know this:
they invariably use the Brisbane ‘‘Courier’ sometimes ex-
clusively. In 1931 the ‘‘Courier” carried at least 160,000 inches
more advertising than its morning rival: it carried almost as
much as two other Brisbane dailies together. Be guided by those
FACTS—largest circulation—widest coverage in city and country.
THE
BRISBANE COURIER
Queensland’s Leading Daily Newspaper—Established 1846.
Representative: ROBERT D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. (BS007.)


KEEP YOUNC WITH
EH
è
Keeping young is chiefly a matter
of keeping healthy. If poisons
are stagnating in your blood, the
skin becomes muddy, lines form
about the mouth, and the face becomes
haggard. Constipation -often unsuspected
will add years to your appearance.
To keep young, take a dash of Eno’s
“Fruit Salt” in a glass of water every morn-
ing. This mild, pleasant, alkaline correc-
tive, sweetens the stomach, rouses the
appetite, and keeps your inner system
clean and free from trouble-making waste.
Buy a bottle of Eno today.
words €>no and Salt” are registered trade marks.
Sales Agents: ‘(She {British {Harold *3 {Ritchie & Go. Xtd. Sydney.
é
Appearance, Comfort
and WEAR
Rameno Garments for
Sport and Ordinary Wear.
Every Rameno garment is well
designed, properly constructed
and made from the best mat-
erial —the finest and best-quality
Australian wool. Noted for
their long life, Rameno gar-
ments always give the wearer a
sense of satisfaction, especially
when standing the close inspec-
tion of friends.
Cost no more, but much
better.
In color and design, Rameno
garments are modelled on the
latest English and Continental
fashions in Men’s Knit-wear.
They wear long because they fit
well.
Sold by all Men’s Stores.
ê
RAMENO
c A(erino ~ c jK‘nit
CARDIGANS ana SWEATERS
SOCKS STOCKINGS
“7"HE ARGUS” and “THE BAR-
A RIER MINER” are the only two
Australian newspapers quoted by “The
Times” in connection with the great
issue of “The Times” Weekly Edition
of Dec. 10 last.
That recognition of the status of “The Barrier
Miner” (the great Far West Daily for the past
44 years) is evidence that confirms Australian
opinion.
“The Barrier Miner” is published at Broken
Hill twice every day. TWICE every DAY.
The Woman’s Mirror
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subj&ct of
interest to women.
ë
The
“TITON”
Compression
Coupling
For Copper Tube Connections
Made in Straight Couplings, Elbows
and Tees
The advantage of the “Titon” Compression Coupling over other couplings
is its special design, which ensures a perfect joint by simply tightening the
nut. No loose rings (to be mislaid) nor packing required.
NOTE: All Fittings are screwed Standard Gas Thread, and any end can thus
be fitted direct to Wrought-iron Pipe Socket, if desired.
For Plumbers’ Lead and Brass Work
And all Plumbers’ Supplies
See our DASPYL Catalogue.
Daspyl Brasswork is favored by the leading craftsmen throughout the Com-
monwealth. The high reputation all Daspyl lines hold in this country and
beyond our shores is fully justified by the quality of goods bearing the name
of DASPYL.
Catalogue post free on request .
flnimfiiiiiiinii
I JOHN
nimiimmiiiiiiii
pry-
IfllllllllllllllfQ
&son i
Illlllllllttllllllltto
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne, C.l.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
r i Wi
m
The Greatest Battery
Value in Australia
6-VoltS 13-Plates Also Obtainable
7©/-
6-Volts 15-Plates
12-Volts 9-Plates
Prices as at Capital Cities
<Jke Quick Starting MP*
fcaic 44
When it’s an You START
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane —Exide Battery Service (Q.),
Ltd.; Sydney—Exide Battery Service (Gibson, Battle and Co.,
Ltd.); Melbourne —A. P. Sutherland; Adelaide—Unbehaun and
Johnstone, Ltd. ; Perth—M. J. Bateman, Ltd.; '
' Hobart —Medhurst and Sons Pty., Ltd.
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1 000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office-r-
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.


Ws£
r
m
T MEAI^S
THE NEW DECORATIONS
The Winter Garden, the Dining-room, the Ball-room
Lounge-—these hare all been entirely remodelled and
redecorated in the modern manner. The whole forms
a glamorous and enchanting setting that is without
an equal in Australia.
Reduced Tariff- —"Room Only” Rates.
Single Room from 10/6 per day
Double Room from 20/- per day
WRITE FOR RATE CARD
Telegraphic Address:"Austraotel, Sydney
I Hotel
SYDNEY
The Hotel of the
Commonwealth,
Sydney.
e
QMDSUPI p
Built on the quadruple com-
pression principle, this re-
markable British Pump is
double-acting and delivers
far more air per stroke than
many other pumps with
larger diameters.
Made by Sheffield engineers, of
the finest materials, the Renrut
Quadruple gives lasting and
efficient service.
ana
mt
Patentees and Role Manufacturers:
WILLIAM TURNER & 880,, LTD., Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD. G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
FEEDING WHEAT TO STOCK.
“Wodgil”: That report of the Imperial
Economic Committee (B. 13/4/’32) con-
tains some thought-provoking figures con-
cerning the utilisation of wheat per head
per annum in various countries. A seven-
year period (1922-29) is taken, seed being
excluded from the calculation. Canada heads
the list with an average of 9.04 bushels;
then come France (7.37 bushels) and Bel-
gium (6.82 bushels). Australia’s average is
5.94 bushels, the U.K.’s 5.77, Argentina’s
6.41 and the U.S.A.’s 6.98.
This fine lo’cal consumption of wheat is
an obvious advantage to the Canadian
growex-. The explanation is, not that the
Canadians eat more bread than other people,
but that they go in more than other
people for feeding wheat to livestock and
using it for industrial purposes, as the sub-
joined analysis of bushels utilised per head
shows: —•
Used Livestock and Due
as Human Industrial to Changes
Food. Purposes. in Stocks.
Canada . . 4.5 3.3 1.2
Argentina . . 5.4 0.2 O.S
Australia .. 4.9 0.7 0.3
U.K. . . . . 4.8 1.0 0.0
U.S.A 4.2 0.0 0.2
Reports from North America suggest that
Canada is standing the depression far better
than the neighboring Republic. Is it too
far-fetched to suppose that this may be due
in part to the feeding of wheat to stock
having become an established practice in
the Dolninion, and one capable of extension
when grain prices tumble? Anyway, the
Canadian example is one that Australia
might well follow. The U.S.A. is following
it. The Imperial Economic Committee says:
“In August, 1930, in the U.S.A. wheat stood
at about 74 cents a bushel and maize at 90
cents. An energetic campaign to’ encourage
the feeding of wheat to livestock was ini-
tiated. According to an estimate by Mr.
N. C. Murray, published by Broomhall on
March 17, 1931, the quantity of wheat used
for feeding livestock in the U.S.A. in the
eight months ending February, 1931, was
60 million bushels greater than in the cor-
responding eight months in the previous
year. And Mr. Murray estimates that 129 mil-
lion, bushels were so used in the U.S.A. in
July to December, 1931.”
The British Ministry of Agriculture gives
the feeding values of different grains as fol-
lows :
Starch Protein
Grain. Equivalent. Equivalent.
Wheat .. .. 72 9.6
Oats .. .. 60 7.6
Barley .. .. 71 6.2
Maize .. . . 81 6.8
“By giving a fixed money value to the starch
and protein contents,” the committee states,
“the profitability of using one or other of
the feeding grains, according to the prices
ruling in the market, can be calculated.”
It has been established by exhaustive ex-
periments at Roseworthy and Hawkesbury
colleges that wheat .at depression prices can
be very profitably fed to pigs. Pigs are so
prolific and put on weight so fast that, if
proper attention were paid to the require-
ments of the British market, it wouldn’t
take long to build up a solid export trade
in pork, bacon and ham. Denmark alone
sent £27,229,500 worth of bacon to Britain
in 1929, which was £16,550,000 more than
the value of its total purchases from the
U.K. After Ottawa Australia will almost
certainly be in a position to get a shai’e of
this trade, so unfavorable, on balance, to
the U.K.; and its opportunity will be in-
creased if Mr, de Valera chooses to sacri-
fice his country’s one great oversea market.
The Free State in 1929 exported £1,933,200
worth of pigs, £1,202,600 worth of fresh
pork, £2,816,500 worth of bacon and ham,
£4,554,800 worth of butter and £3,218,800
worth of eggs—nearly all to the U.K.
GLUCLUB WHEAT.
_ “Mullalyup”: Owing to the representa-
tions of farmers who have pickled their
seed, that resolution in favor of imposing a
dockage of 4d. on every bushel of Gluclub
wheat delivered at Westralian flourmills
(B. 13/4/’32) is not to become effective
this year; but reports on Gluclub are so con-
demnatory of its milling qualities that it is
improbable that much of it will be grown in
future years.
In 1929 the Westralian Government
Analyst conducted tests with flour milled
from samples of Gluclub and Gluyas Early
wheat. The water-absorptive capacity of
Gluclub was found to be 53.25 p.c., that of
Gluyas Early 56.5 p.c. In 1930 there was
to have been another comparative test,
but the samples were damaged before
they could be milled. But in milling tests
carried out this year Gluclub was found
to have a strength of 49.5 p.c.; Gluyas
Early a strength of 53.8 p.c. In an-
other, the strength of Gluclub was found
to be 43 p.c., that of ordinary f.a.q. wheat
48.8 p.c. And the biggest millers in West-
tralia report that “the flour milled from
Gluclub was weak and extremely starchy;
the gluten was short and of poor quality;
dough made with the flour was soft and
short, with absorption very poor.”
Says the Director of Agriculture, who has
made these results known: “If Gluclub is
such a good yiolder that it would be un-
sound from a commercial viewpoint to dis-
card it, then, just as varieties such as Carra-
bin and Pusa are placed in a class by them-
selves as premium wheat, so should Gluclub
be placed in a separate class as being sub-
normal. This would obviate penalising those
farmers who are growing what may be
regarded as straight-grade varieties, inter-
mediate in strength between premium and
Gluclub wheat. It would also safeguard
millers. It seems to me that in view of the
action taken by commercial interests a
step such' as I have suggested is essential,
otherwise our failure to take action will have
a detrimental effect on the State’s wheat-
growing industry next season and for an
indefinite period aftpr.”
WAKE UP, N.S.W. DAIRY-FARMERS!
“Producer”: “F 34” (B. 30/3/’32) men-
tions the increased output of dairy products
in Queensland. Victoria has shown an even
more remarkable advance —340 gallons per
cow in 1925-26 to 440 gallons per cow in
1929-30. N. S. Wales during the same
period has shown a decline from 346 gallons
per cow to 331. With all our resources this
is no credit to the Mother State, especially
when the progress made on the manufactur-
ing side of the industry is considered. Be-
fore 1916 over 50 per cent, of N.S.W. butter
was below first-grade. To-day second-grade
butter simply isn’t sold for direct con-
sumption.
Except in the North Island of M.E., no-
where in the world are dairy-farming condi-
tions as favorable as they are in N. S. Wales.
The low yields are due partly to insufficient
and incorrect diet and partly to the poor
general quality of the animals.
The problem of feeding can be attacked
by pasture improvement and fodder conser-
vation. It is not suggested that an inten-
sive system of rotational grazing and sub-
division of pastures may be made to pay in
all cases, as it does in other parts of the
world, but much yet remains to be done in
the matter of cultivation of pastures, top-
dressing, more extensive use of our grasses
and legumes, and drainage. Too much reli-
ance has been placed on the natural pastures.
There is vast room for improvement in the
. matter of fodder conservation and in the
regular consumption of purchased feeding-
stuffs, such as bran, pollard, linseed meal
and oilcakes, to supplement the natural pas-
tures and increase soil fertility. And
adequate provision for shade in hot weather,
warmth in winter and good clean drinking
water is too seldom made, while losses due
to faulty handling, over-excitement and un-
clean methods are far greater than they
need be.
The other aspect of improvement involves
systematic herd-testing, for both yield and
quality, the elimination of the unprofitable
and breeding only from the best. Even in
good herds it is frequently found that 20
per cent, of the cows are unprofitable, while
10 per cent, leave a greater margin of profit
than the other 90 per cent. Denmark doubled
its butter production per cow in 27 years.
Australia should be able to do this in much
less time. The whole Hawkesbury College
(.Tcrsey) herd recently tested slightly over
5001 b. of butter-fat per cow per annum,
while the State average over a number of
years is 1201 b.
The bull is half the herd. He has an
even, greater effect in the transmission of
milking qualities, particularly butter-fat,
than the dam. It is therefore of utmost im-
portance that the herd bull should be from
a good milking strain. One should examine
the production records of the dam and grand-
dam before buying a bull.
The question of disease control is also an
important one, particularly contagious mam-
mitis, abortion and t.b. For all of these
diseases the N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture carries out tests at a nominal figure.
TOP-DEESSING OF PASTURES.
“Trifolium”: G. G. Bartlett, agricultural
instructor in the Riverina, reports the satis-
factory conclusion of a two-year top-dressing
trial on the property of C. F. Schmidt,
Wattle Park, Jindera. In March, 1930, an
80-acre paddock of natural pasture was top-
dressed with 1401 b. super, per acre. For the
year to March 31, 1931, this paddock car-
ried 3.8 sheep per acre; for the year to
March 31. 1932, 4.6 sheep per acre. During
the same periods a 160 acre paddock, un-
I ' 6
The best gracing paddock ou the property
was taken as the check ; the top-dressed pad-
dock was formerly regarded as inferior. Top-
dressing stimulated the growth of clovers
and the finer native grasses, such as Dan-
thonia spp. and Panicum spp., at the expense
of the coarser grasses and weeds. The ini-
provement in the types of pasture plants wa
reflected in the improved condition and
health of stock and increased wool yield.
The cost of the initial application of super,
was 7s. per acre, 3s. 6d. p.a. p.a. Buying
sufficient land (£lO per acre) to increase
carrying capacity by 124 p.c. would mean
paying 14s. 7d. interest p.a. p.a. where
interest is taken at 6 p.c. Maintenance,
management, land tax, shire rates, etc.,
would also add considerably to this cost,
For the conditions mentioned this experi-
ment demonstrated that when ready money
is available it is more profitable for a grazier
to improve the carrying capacity of the land
he possesses than to pay interest on money
advanced for the purchase of more.
„. „ rn , . „ . .
• .vh? aC : Fop-dressing of sheep pastures
might prove expensive if the improved pas-
tures are not properly managed. ihis is
particularly true of good herbage country,
as was demonstrated in some grazing trials
in the Young (N.S.W.) district. The object
ot the trials was to ascertain whether tne
lush growth promoted by super, coarsened
the wool fibre. I Ins has not been definitely
proved; indications are that there is a slight
coarsening of the wool but that this is more
f ball compensated for by increase m weight
0 flcccc due to better feed.
Ihe exceptionally good winter experienced
in the Young district last year favored an
abundant growth of clovers and herbage on
t *? e fertilised pastures, with the result that
all the sheep on that section (it was carry-
ing two sheep to the acre) were affected by
iootrot Those on the untreated area
escaped, ihc sheep on the top-dressed area
finished up in poor condition. Had the pas-
tures been stocked to capacity or mowed,
tfie surplus growth being conserved as grass,
hay or silage, considerable profit, instead of
a loss, would have been made on the outlay
for sillier. Besides toorrot, worms, fluke and
perhaps woolrot are encouraged by abundant
herbage growth, particularly in wet seasons.
rmjtTVTTWT. ivnor
_LIaJN ill-lit VYUULi.
“Sheep-o”: There will be a lot of tender
wool in Queensland this season. In recently
shorn clips I have seen the break is pro-
nounccd, especially among the fleeces of
breeding ewes and younger sheep. Growers
should keep all tender wool apart from wool
that is sound.
To test the soundness or otherwise of wool,
HSgcr” of Ito right”ha I ‘nd Ul at tl ;r b s /mc S
firmly holding the butt of the staple. With
a sharp motion flick the middle finger of the
right hand across the centre of the staple
a couple of times. It will soon be found
whether the wo'ol is sound or tender. It is
necessary to do this in several portions of
the fleece; the neck or shoulder portion may
be sound, the back or breech portions may be
tender. *
As a rule, it will be found that the lightest-
conditioned fleeces are the tender ones, and
those carrying a deal of yolk may be sound.
.Still the finger test must be made of all
fleeces, if the get-up of the clip is to be satis-
faetorily done.
A good season after a dry spell is almost
sure to cause a break in the wool fibres. It
is poverty-stricken sheep that carry tender
fleeces.
If a scour is handv, it is always advis-
able to have the tender wool scoured.. When
classing a clip that is practically all tender,
special attention should be paid to length of
staple. The mistake should not be made of
placing a well-grown tender wool in with
short wools so commonly called clothing
wools. Continental mills have a method of
combing these short wools, and their com-
petition is lost if long-stapled tender wools
are mixed in with this short-stapled class.
DRAINING LUCERNE FARMS.
iit«t wii at TT- • • ~ v, ,
i d . v.Y\. ; rtb IC ‘ n ‘ n gation blockers
learned during the severe summer rams that
no lucerne farm is safe without a drainage
thG Mu 7 ay flat V n Swan
Hill district many fine stands of lucerne
were reduced to a black mass in a few days
because there was no way of pumping or
draining off to get rid of the water. Not
only the lucerne but the roots died outright
in many paddocks. Farms which had even
a small and cheap drainage system were
saved. . , , .„ „
.Every farm can ,be made secure if a small
oil engine and a 3in. pump are installed at
its lowest point beside a water channel. I
cut a system of narrow spade drains in the
™st favorable places to bring the water to
the lowest point adjoining the channel. Then
with a 3fh.p oil engine and a 3in. pump
the water was pumped into the channel ou
? f a sump or hole sunk for the purpose. It
w well to start up the pump as soon as water
“Srov^Th e tem S „/ £ tf°?„clfS“
Pumping in wet weather,
WINTERING BEES,
"Larrapinta”: Bees give a good return for
care and attention, and they need it most
in the autumn. Start to prepare for winter-
ing now. Supers must be removed from all
but the very strongest swarms, and combs
carted to a dry shed and stacked up in bee-
and mouse-proof stacks, evenly spaced in
the boxes. On no account let the bees rob them
dry of honey, for bees love to work on wet,
sticky combs early in the spring. From now
on work the hives as single storeys. Take
no honey from them until they are full and
starting to crowd out their queens; then
only take one or two combs at a time every
few days. This means extra work, but it is
playing for safety. Also, the one-comb-at-a-
time method ensures that well-ripened honey
is left in the hives. Most of the heavy
wintering losses which have come under my
notice have been directly traceable to bees
wintering on newly-gathered stuff which
turned sour in the comb.
Look round for a good wintering site. The
ideal one is upon the northern slope of a
scrub-covered sandhill, adjacent to cultiva-
tion paddocks where there will be a heavy
gr owth of weeds like dandelion, soursob *and
charlock in the spring. Failing a sandhill,
select the north-east side of a belt of
thick scrub or hedge. Put the hives down
facing the nor’-east, with a slight slope
towards the entrance to run out the moist-
urCj which condenses under the covers, and
block the two rear ventilation holes with
wads of paper to stop cold draughts. See
that eac h hive has a good mat, cut from old
basnrino- nr canvas over the frames
" y 0” Sst SamfnatfoM o£ Si hives
j n autumn mark any which need requeening,
This saves valuable time when you are dodg-
ing showers and taking advantage of every
burst of sunshine. A failing queen can be
identified bv her slow movements, ragged
wings and back Even if you don - t
see ber, the irregular way in which eggs are
j a { d — gfirae stuck lialf-wav down the wall of
the cellj others with n 0 cgg at a n__ aro
evidence that the lady is due for replacement,
Don’t open hives in the cold weather
i lT ,i P oo it 1* v n n uppA tn vi«it
? h em at inteS to sie thaf they have nei
been tipped over by cows, but you can tel!
jf they are short of stores by simply feeling
their weight. If you have to feed any, just
slip a flat cake of candied honey under the
cover and close it again,
I run 300 colonies and have never had
more than three or four die out in any
winter; I know other beekeepers who have
had 100 per cent, come through.
FLYING-FOXES AS FRUIT-EATERS,
. , Tlie flymg-fox has been exhaustively con-
s.ldered by F. N. Radchffe, whose mvestiga-
tions and conclusions are reported in Bullc-
£ m , of the Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research. There are four species
I,f -P*fo»«w: Pohooephalm (the grey-
beaded fox), Gould,i (the black fox), Compt-
«««<*** (the spectacled fox) and Scapu-
latns (the little red fox). According to
Mr. Radcliffe, “their numbers, which cannot
b<? assessed, must amount to many millions
1,1 tlle numerous camps scattered along the
eastern coast; they are also to be found on
tbe north coast, from Westralia to Queens-
land. But although they have attacked cul-
tivated fruit along the eastern coast since
the earliest days of settlement. Mr. Rad-
cliffe will not have it that they are “a
serious menace to the, commercial fruit
industry.” Pteropus , he says, is “mainly a
blossom-feeder,” and “fruit grown in domestic
gardens is attacked to a much greater
extent than in orchards, largely because it
does not have to be picked at an early stage
°f maturity.”
The author condemns the scalp-bounty
system to which various Queensland districts
have resorted when flying-foxes were especi-
ally numerous. In Queensland, he declares,
the fox does no considerable damage, and
payment of 3d. a scalp is absurd. He is
convinced that “there has been a marked
decrease, in the numbers of the animals, due
t b e settlement of the coastal areas,” and
that org{mised shooting is the best method
of loea , contro l. It has been suggested
from time to time that the skins might be
( Continued on page 26.)


è
Made for pliancy and
lightness
This welted Abbey Evening
Shoe has an upper of the finest
patent leather. It’s designed to
fit smoothly without strain ....
shaped to all the curves of the
foot. That reduces the risk of
unsightly creases. The sole is
light, tough and flexible. Full
and half sizes are available in
three fittings, narrow, medium
and wide. Reduced to
45/-
Dancing pumps
Low-heeled, light and supple,
with complete patent leather
uppers. Full and half sizes.
25/-
ORDER BY POST: State both
width and size. Ask, also, for the
correct Abbey Patent Leather Polish
(6d. per tin), or a handy, new
cleaning outfit (2/6).
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 278
FARMERS...
RuralTopics.Dairying
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
■ Horticulture. Veterinary
■ Notes Etc ....All in ..
■THE AUSTRALASIAN
■ ON SALE ALL STATES &
CONSTIPATION
IS DEPRESSING
AND DANGEROUS
Constipation is a serious matter —
because it is responsible for many
of our present-day ailments. Fail-
ure of the system to eliminate
waste matter brings on headaches,
indigestion, dizziness and bilious-
ness. Figsen corrects constipation,
is easy to take and gentle and
natural in action. No purging or
griping. Figsen restores natural
bowel action without upsetting
the most delicate stomach. For
adults and kiddies FIGSEN.
é
Your Chemist
sells and
recommends
©
FIGSEN
FOR CONSTIPATION
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Firolnsuranceseffected on all classes of
-—Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks ?n Wool, Merchandise,
— Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, See. H. E. Robinson. Gen. Manager.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
til®
BATTERY BUYERS
WANT FACTS
and here they arej
IN every test of dry-cell batteries conducted by
independent experts, New Diamonds have been
proved superior to all other makes.
They have given longer effective discharge—quicker
and more complete recuperation—and better service
under all conditions.
That is why it costs less per radio hour to operate
your set with New Diamond Batteries.
4 points of HEW DIAMOND superiority
1— EXCLUSIVE CONTAINER PROTECTION.
—Battery cannot be tampered with or mis-
used before purchase—because of patent
sealed container lid.
2 RAPID RECUPERATION—the reason for
their extra months of effective working life.
3 CONSERVATION OF CURRENT—No
leakage of current is possible, because of the
unique method of cell insulation.
4 COMPREHENSIVE GUARANTEE.—There
is a written guarantee of quality enclosed
with every battery.
New Diamond Batteries—for radio, torch cases, and every electrical purpose-
are sold by every Dealer throughout the Commonwealth.
Direct Factory Representatives:—
HENDON ELECTRICAL CO., ' N.S.W. Representatives:
“Whitehall,” Bank Place, Melbourne, Cl. REG ROSE & CO., Sydney, N.S.W.
And distributors in every State.
Item
AAORE POWER LESS COST
put to some commercial use. They are
actually worthless, like the other parts of the
pest.
QUEENSLAND BANANAS.
“Bunchy” : The decision of the Committee
of Direction in Queensland to establish its
own direct selling agency in the Sydney
markets is a long Overdue attempt to save
banana-growing from becoming a peasant
industry.
In 1925 the consumption of bananas in
Australia was 141 b. per head. The C.O.D.
watched this figure gradually fade to 91b.
per head in 1925. A firm’s offer to take
over the whole of the banana output was
rejected by the growers. N.S.W. North
Coast bananas, which, when wiped off the
market by bunchy-top, had given Queensland
fruit a boom, have now come back. The
Norfolk Island banana is making a clean
sweep of the lower grades. In desperation
Queensland growers packed everything in
the shape of a banana they could lay hands
on in order to pay for last year’s bread. The
C.O.D. appointed inspectors at each rail-
head with orders to dump any under-sized
fruit. Small mountains of rejected cases
soon piled up at each railway station.
Nature has come to the rescue. By starv-
ing out the less hardy souls, it has brought
production down to a level where it can
supply the demand, with a little profit. The
trail of deserted plantations stretching from
the Blackall Range to the Far North tells
the tale of the grim fight.
WINTER EGG PRODUCTION.
“J.P.”: The astute seller of poultry-
chicks, eggs or adult stock—emphasises the
winter-laying ability of what he has to sell.
Whilst it is well-nigh impossible to get eggs
in winter from any but good birds, it is a
mistake to suppose that this ability is a
separate factor that only certain strains
possess. Birds lay well in winter because
they possess the necessary vigor and stamina
to do so under adverse conditions. Less
vigorous ones just consume enough food to
maintain their bodily growth and develop-
ment. Eggs are produced from the surplus
of food consumed after bodily requirements
have been satisfied.
Having got the good birds, it doesn’t
follow that you’re going to get the eggs
unless you pay attention to a number of
details important in the aggregate. The
birds will get much less sunshine in winter
than in summer; extra sunshine can be
supplied by the addition of cod-liver oil to
a wet mash. Extra skill is called for in
feeding during the cold months, so that the
birds will consume more in the shorter
working hours. Try giving them a wot
mash, then their grain feed just before dark,
so that they go to roost with full crops.
Drinking water should never be allowed to
get. icy-cold ; if you take the trouble to warm
it slightly on very cold mornings you will
be rewarded with more eggs. A little more
attention to the snugness of roosting
quarters is called for —protect the birds from
strong chilly winds and draughts.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
I am 35 years of aye, have £lOOO cash and
£2 weekly income for life. I leant to bring
income up to £5 weekly. (1) What are the
prospects for bee-keeping in N.S.W. or Vic.?
(2) Suitable locality, preferably N.S.W.?
(3) Size of property required? (4) Return
per hive per annum? (5) Where can I take
a course of instruction and period of train-
ing? (6) Cost of bees and hives and where
procurable? (7) Books on the subject ?■—
9129.
(1) Good. (2) N.S.W. Agriculture Dept,
will supply a list on application. (3) Two
acres. (4) Under good management and in
a favo'rable locality the return per colony
should average 30s. p.a. (5) A summer
school in apiculture i.s held annually during
January at Hawkesbury Agricultural Col-
lege. A course of instruction may also be
taken at the Government Apiary, Wauchope.
(6) Bought in quantities, £2 to £3 a hive.
To procure colonies it. is advisable to adver-
tise in the bee journals. (7) Bulletin, “The
Beginner in Bee Culture,” obtainable from
N.S.W. Agriculture Department.
(1) A,s the specific gravity, flash-point and
firing-point of power kerosene are lower than
that of lighting kerosene, does that signify
that it is more refined? (2) Is lighting
kerosene more suitable as a fuel in Diesel
or semi-Diesel engines? (3) What is the
meaning of ISOdeg. test {power kerosene )
and ISOdeg. fire test {lighting kerosene)? —
8976.
(1) The specific gravity of power kero-
sene is not always lower than that of light-
ing kerosene. The location of the flash and
firing-points do not indicate the extent of re-
fining. (2) Neither lighting nor power kero-
sene is suitable, as both would ignite far too
quickly. A heavier oil with a much higher
firing-point is used. (3) The meaning of
the term “ISOdeg. test” as applied to kero-
sene is doubtful. It is a term that is seldom,
if ever, used in the trade. “150 deg. fire test
lighting kerosene” indicates the firing-point,
and any illuminating or burning oil is re-
quired by the Explosives Act not to be below'
this figure, which indicates the temperature
at which the product gives off sufficient vapor
to ignite and burn continuously.
How to free a barn of weevils? —9436.
Make the barn airtight if possible, fumi-
gating with carbon bisulphide. wffiich is
highly inflammable. Use from lib. to 101 b.
for every thousand cubic feet, according to
degree of airtightness obtained, and keep
closed for 48 hours. Another moderately
effective w 7 ay is to spray with liquid insect-
icide. After the spraying grain should be
stored in bins capable of fumigation.
(1) How to grow gruie trees from seed?
(2) Do white cedar trees make good stock
fodder for winter? —9110.
(1) A very difficult job. We know of no
reliable method. (2) No. The berries are
poisonous to pigs and possibly to other
animals and the leaves fall in winter. The
best fodder tree to plant is the kurrajong.
HINTS FOB THE FARM.
“Minthall” : Rape-berseem clover is a good
combination for winter if sown now. Use
41b. of rape and 21b. of clover if drilled,
61b. and 31b. if broadcast. Both growths re-
spond to a medium super, treatment, and
can be cut and chaffed or grazed off; graz-
ing should be done when the crop is dry.
“J.W.W.” : Mice are eating grain in many
parts of northern Victoria. Cross-harrowing
to break up the rows is effective, and I have
found that a little poisoned wheat scattered
along in an occasional harrow scratch or
row will get rid of the vermin, or, at least,
hold them in check till the frost comes.
“The Ringer”: When a cow has got down
and can’t get up, don’t knock her about by
putting rails under her and trying to get
her on her feet that w r ay. Take a good stout
rope and run it under the brisket right round
the body, under the rump, and tie it. but
not tod tight. Now let a man get on either
side and just heave on the rope when she
struggles. You will find .she is easily lifted.
“Kiama”: “U. Murray” (B. 23/3/’32)
may be interested to' know that I am one
who believes in giving cows two months’ rest
prior to calving. If the season is extra bad
I do not hesitate to give a little bran each
day for a week or two before the event.
Results justify.
“Cow-cocky”: A North Coast (N.S.W.)
dairyman has all his milking-stools made
with the end pair of legs affixed to the seat
with a T-hinge. Legs are made in pairs
and joined with battens, then hinged to the
under part of the seat. When not in use
they are folded up and placed on the ledge
above the bail.
“W. 0.”: It is hard to prevent a horse
getting sore shoulders in working heavy
land ; but I have found this treatment effec-
tive after the horse has started to chafe.
Cut two clean cornsacks lengthwise down the
centre, opening to' be just large enough to
put the head through, the sacks to rest
snugly but not tightly on his shoulders. Tie
pads (old towels make good ones) inside
the collar above and below the chafed part.
When knocking off at midday and at night,
throw powdered sulphur on parts showing
signs of collar-rubbing.
“Thorley”: After using various numbers of
posts and droppers per chain I find a little
fence I put up years ago the last word in
effective fencing. There are four posts to
the chain and eight droppers; this makes
the posts 164 ft. apart and there is a post
or dropper every sJft. Posts are 3ft. 9in.
out of the ground; droppers are 4ft.. long,
the bottom resting in a hole 3in. deep. The
wire holes are bored sin., llin., 17Jin., 25in..
34in. and Sin. from top of post. Pull in
bottom wire first and strain. Strain a barb-
wire and fasten to top of post. Space
droppers, stand upright and fasten to the
barb. When the other wires are strained
you have a neat and almost impregnable
fence.
“Pine Scrub” : There has been much talk
about ground rock phosphate and salt as a
stock lick. The Council of Industrial and
Scientific Research says it can’t recommend
it. The greatest objection to rock phos-
phate used in this manner is its excess of
fluorine contents, the action of which is to
withdraw phosphates from the body. Bones
of sheep to winch rock phosphate has been
fed for a number of years have the appear-
ance of celluloid rather than the solid
opaqueness of bone.
“J.S.L.” : Touching that kerosene-tin rain-
gauge (B. 23/3/’32), the method of measur-
ing with a ruler is rather rough. A better
way of doing the job is to get a smaller tin
—say, a 71b. jam-tin—and pour in Jin.
of water, then pour into a white straight-
sided medicine bottle, marking the height of
the water. This will serve as a good measure
for light showers if the mark on the bottle
is taken as 25 points and then divided into
five parts, each representing five points. The
longer and narrower the measuring bottle
the more accurate will be the gauge.
“G. J.A.S.” : A quick way to cut up poison
pollard baits for rabbits. Make a light frame
from any handy-sized packing-case and nail
a piece of small-meshed wire-netting over
the top, leaving the bottom open. Sprinkle
the bench wdth dry pollard and set the frame
over it. Take a lump of mixed pollard, roll
it out to the required thinness, place on the
top of netting and run the roller over; the
baits drop through all one size. Dust dry
pollard over them and the netting, and go
ahead. The dry pollard can always be used
again in your next mixing. Lay the baits
out to dry, when they can be bagged up and
loaded into the cart. The stiffer the dough
is mixed the better. It is w r ell to keep a
bottle of salad oil handy on the bench, as
if you are using phosphorus sticks and small
particles have not dissolved, these are apt to
ignite in pollard sticking to your hand.
“Viau”: For a hole in a galvanised tank
or other container, get a piece of ordinary
fly-gauze big enough to overlap around it.
Soldered on, and with solder run all over it,
it is better than a patch of tin.
“Wescocky” : The 5-h.p. vertical type sta-
tionary petrol engine and chaffcutter are, 1
think, the most suitable and economical for
the general class of wheat farm; a gristing
mill on the other side of the engine can be
erected. When required to drive the wheat-
grader or two-stand shearing plant this type
of engine does very well bedded on two rail-
way sleepers. For the permanent bed, mark
out a rectangular pit about sft. longer and
6in. wider than the engine; this will pro-
vide space for the water tank. A small
corrugated-iron roof built over the engine
makes fine protection, and always see your
magneto, when not in use, is well protected
from moisture.
“Sand Plain”: To clear country of briars,
cut them level with the ground and stack
and burn the tops; then stock the paddock
heavily with will eat the shoots
back. Though considered a hardy pest briars
cannot stand much eating back.
“Bill R.”: Midwinter is the time for
pruning the gooseberry and currant bushes.
They will yield go'od crops only if properly
pruned. Cut away the centre and old wood
of the gooseberry bushes, and lightly trim
back their lateral shoots. New leaders pro-
duce the best black currants, so their old
stems should be removed. Red and white
currants, on the other hand, bear best on
matured wood. Shorten the old stems a
little, and relieve them of all twiggy growths.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Sydney woman (40), good cook, requires position
as housekeeper for widower or bachelors.—9Bs6.
Certificated nurse, Sydney, six years’ exp., wants
position city or country or care of invalid. Refs.
—9355.
Queensland woman (26), convent education, busi-
ness training, domesticated, will give services any
capacity for European passage.—9439.
Typist (23), Sydney, seeks position in office.
Varied exp.—9359.
Young lady (22), Vic., licensed, shorthand writer,
Uni. intermediate certificate, five years’ secretarial
exp., wants position as secretary to person going
abroad. —9294.
Country store manager, single (39), wants posi-
tion as manager or book-keeper. Refs. —9351.
Wanted partner to share expenses in long cruise
in cutter, Islands and Europe. Navigation exp.
would be welcome.—934o.
Young man (31), Sydney, married, exp. as music
critic of city paper, broadcasting, propaganda and
publicity work, can speak six languages, wants posi-
tion. —9362.
Woman, N.S.W., with two small children, wants
position as housekeeper on station or farm. Good
cook. —9365.
Young man wants 100 to 150 acres on clearing
lease with option of buying; North Coast of N.S.W.
preferred.—9374.
To buy set golf clubs from Sydney golfer.—936o.
To buy Part No. 48 of Harmsworth’s “Children’s
Encyclopaedia,” edited by Arthur Mee. —9387.
To buy “Shrapnel Green” by Oscar Walters.. —9426.
Words of verse dealing with an Italian fish-shop
assistant’s half-holiday; also of verse about boiled
mutton and caper sauce. —9395.
Words of verse entitled “Woman,’’ containing the
line, “The one thing man will not share.” —9367.
Words of verse containing the line, “There is a
king in Flanders whose father shore out back.” —
9384.
Words of verse beginning “Though I wear starched
shirts and a silk hat now, and my feet are dressed
in tan.” —9336.
Information Sought.
How is beche-de-rner treated? —9430.
The method employed on the Great Bar-
rier Reef is to boil the creatures for 20min.
They are then slit, open and gutted and
exposed to the sun till the greater part of the
moisture lias evaporated, after which they
are smoked in a smoke-ho Use for 24 hours.
Is it correct to state that the north pole
of the compass points to the terrestrial north
pole or that its south pole points north?
9438.
The first law of magnetism states: "Like
poles repel each other, and unlike poles
attract each other.” Hence, the south pole
of the compass is attracted to the no'rth ter-
restrial pole, and its north pole is likewise
repelled. It is correct to call the end which
points t 0 the north the “north-seeking” pole,
and this term has been abbreviated to north
pole.
Can the Commissioners of the, N.S.V.
Government Savings Bank, Rural branch,
compel a mortgagor to pay a fee on the com-
pletion of an annual inspection of the secu-
rity?— 9328.
Yes, in cases where loans are granted sub-
ject to periodical inspections being made.
(1) Are all the thoroughbred racehorses
in the world descendants of three stallions
and 40 mares? (2) Were their ancestors
Arab horses? (3) When was the breeding
of thoroughbreds commenced in England?
(4) Are thoroughbred stallions used on
cattle stations for siring stock horses? (5)
Did the trotters descend from thorough-
breds? (6) Where were trotters first bred?
—9306.
(1) No. (2) The thoroughbred is a breed
of mixed origin, Arab, Turkish and Spanish
blood being used. (3) The breeding of
horses was going on in England for genera-
tions prior to the reign of Charles 11. In
1667 that monarch sent out agents to pro-
cure Oriental stallions and mares—Barbs,
Turks, Persians and Arabians. These were
mated with English-bred horses and mares,
and especially with the descendants of racing
stock originated in the reign of James I.
The Royal mares of Charles 11. formed the
foundation of the English stud books. (4)
Yes, in many instances. (5) Thoroughbred
blood was used in the development of the
trotter. (6) The type known as the stand-
ard-bred trotter was first bred in the U.S.A.
I have a New Hebrides stamp with a view
of Port Vila in the centre. It is not men-
tioned in Gibbons’s catalogue. Anything
known about it? —9433.
In 1897 two local stamps were issued with
franking power in the New Hebrides group
and on the Australasian-New Hebrides Co.’s
ships. In the case of letters whose destina-
tions were beyond Sydney it was necessary
to add N.S.W. stamps, so that envelopes are
found bearing the two’ sorts of stamps side
by side. Two values were issued, the penny
and twopence. They were designed by A.
F. Bassett Hull, and lithographed by John
Sands and Co., both of Sydney.
(1) What subjects are represented on the
pictorial stamp issue of Tonga? (2) When
were these stamps first issued? (3) I have
a penny Tonga overprinted “T.-L., June 1,
1899.” What does this mean? —9444.
(1) Id., arms of Tonga; Id., ancient
bread-fruit tree at Kana-Kubolu; 3d., the
Haamonga or prehistoric trilithon situated
near the village of Kologa; 4d.. fruit and
foliage of the bread-fruit tree ; 6d., variety
of coral; 25., view of the island of Haabai;
2s. 6d., hawk-billed parrot o'r.kaka; 55., view
of Vavau Harbor. (2) June, 1897. (3)
King George of Tonga was married on Juno
1, 1899* and the then current penny stamp
was overprinted to commemorate that event.
T-L. stands for the king’s family name I au-
fa’ahua and his bride, Princess Lavima.
(1) In winch Australian States is the
death sentence by hanging still practised,.
(2) Average number of hangings in the last
five years for which figures have been pub-
lished? (3) In the same years, which State
had the greatest number of executions;
which State the least? (4) Is electrocution
universal in the United States? (5) if
not, by what means are capital offences
punished? —92ss.
(1) In all (nominally) but Queensland,
where it was abolished in 1922. (2) 1925-
29, two. (3) W.A., five; Vic. and las.,
none. (4) and (5) No; 22 States electro-
cute ; the U. S. Federal Government hangs,
as do 18 States, including Utah, which hangs
or shoots; eight'imprison for life; Nevada
uses lethal gas.
(1) How to reduce old accumulator plates
to lead? (2) llow to convert this into sheet
lead?— 92o9. . , , .
(1) Melt the old plates m a closed fur-
nace, using green wood as a fuel. Molten
lead is collected from the base of the furnace
and cast into bars. A second method con-
sists of melting the plates in a large kettle.
When the lead is melted the slag is skimmed
off and the metal ladled out into bars (2)
Lead sheet is manufactured industrially by
rolling the cast bars between a number of
pairs of rollers, the distance between each
successive pair being gradually reduced until
the sheet is rolled t 0 the required thickness.
lloiv much money disqualifies a single man
from drawing the full old-age pension? —
9130. . . ~ _
From any pension otherwise payable there
is deducted £1 per annum for every complete
£lO by which the net capital value of any
property (exclusive of the home in which
pensioner resides) exceeds £5O. If the value
of property (home excepted) exceeds £4OO
no pension is payable.
(1) What are the qualifications of a tick
inspector on the North Coast of N.S.W.?
(2) Where to apply? (3) Salary? (4)
Any vacancies at present? (5) Who sup-
plies horses, saddle, etc.? —9115.
(1) He must be a good cattleman and
a good rider and have a knowledge of ticks.
(2) Chairman, Tick Control Board, Lismore.
(3) Basic wage. (4) No. (5) Inspector
supplies own horse and saddle and gets for-
age allowance. All other gear supplied.
What ethnological or historical excuse is
there for the long straight trumpet used in
Verdi’s “Aida”?- —9392.
The very best authority—the carven stone
records of the Egypt of the Pharaohs. These
trumpets were,, judging by their proportion
to human figures, about 7ft. long. Probably
they played only a single note. Those used in
the opera, of course, are provided with
valves.
Is it possible to make a serviceable boat
to carry two men and their cam,ping gear
from bush timber, using a tarpaulin lAft. by
Bft. ? —9393.
The Donegal curragli type of construction
should be suitable. The tarpaulin must be
provided with brass eyelets all round, about.
•Sin. apart. Lay two pieces of timber,
about 3in. thick, and shaped something like
the deck plan of the boat. With a lin.
auger bore holes right along their length
about lOin. apart. Brace these two timbers,
which are the gunwales, apart with a stout
piece of timber, and frame the boat with
willows or wattle by placing one end in one
of the holes in the gunwale and bending it;
place the other end in the hole opposite.
Frame the boat throughout its length, keep-
ing to an even shape, and then lash five or
six longitudinals each side, outside the
frames. The tarpaulin is stretched over the
framework and secured by cord through the
eyelets.
(1) Are hot-air engines still on the
market? (2) Disadvantages of this type of
m achine ? —9343.
(1) No, but it is sometimes possible to
pick up a second-hand machine. (2) Mainly
inefficient use of fuel. In the best construc-
tion a consumption of I.Blb. of gas has
yielded one indicated horse-power, o’r 2.541 b.
of coke per b.h.p. The absolute efficiency is,
therefore, only about 7.9 p.c., referred to
b.h.p. In the smaller sizes of machine the
consumption of fuel is usually very much
higher than this, and is often 201 b. or mo’re
per b.h.p. hour, it is practically impossible
to construct an air-engine of any great
power, as air expands but one . volume for
each 493 deg. of temperature through which
it is raised.
(1) What is the rate of the Q’land totali-
■sator tax? (2) What is the tax on book-
makers in Q’land? (3) What is the stamp
duty on betting tickets in Q’land?- —9429.
(1) A shilling in the pound. (2) Annual
license fee ranging from £5 to £5O. (3)
Bookmakers must use Government betting
tickets, which bear impressed stamp duty
ranging from 3d. to Is.
To what extent did the Liberal policy of
Ballance contribute to the present heavy
overseas indebtedness of M.L.? —9441.
Ballance can’t be blamed for it. He was
definitely opposed to heavy overseas borrow-
ing, and in his 28 months of office he added
only £BOO,OOO to the debt —under £400,000
a year—and reduced the. interest bill by
£27,000 p.a. by advantageous rearrange-
ments. Seddon in his 14 years’ term added
£23,130,000, an average of £1,650,000 p.a.,
but at the end of his term the interest bur-
den per head was less than it was when
Ballance took .office. Ward increased the
debt by close on £21,000,000 in the five
years of liis first Administration, his aveiage.
being £4,250,000 a year. Subsequent Admin-
istrations, of various sorts, to date have boi-
rowed at the rate of close on £7,000,01X1 p.a.,
excluding loans necessitated by the Great
My hibiscus and oleander shrubs, which,
lutd excellent blooms in previous years, failed
badly this year and the flowers failed to
set. Cause and cure? —942B.
They are making too much root-growth.
IJig round the shrubs and cut off the majority
of the roots extending away from the trunk.
A sprinkling of bonedust over the surface
and worked in, and then a good watering,
will put new life into the shrubs.
In the absence of stable manure, what is
the best fertiliser for a flower garden’.
9435.
Chemical fertilisers should be used very
sparingly, or the ground will become ‘sick.
Leaves, lawn grass and weeds not carrying
seed-pods are excellent for enriching the
soil. For heavy land a load of rich loam
is a big aid. Superphosphate is the most
suitable artificial aid. It should be well
worked in before putting in plants.
Can you tell me something about Christ-
mas Island? —9394. . ,
It lies in the mid-Pacific, just north of the
equator, and is about 100 miles in circum-
ference. It is held under license by Centra.
Pacific Co'coanut Plantations, Ltd., of Lon-
don. The population is 23. Labor is brought
from Tahiti. Periodical visits are made by
British warships. The area is about 60,U0U
acres, of which 1200 are under cocoanuts.
There is a Roman Catholic mission.
Who invented the aneroid barometer ?-*-
9405. . T .
The credit is usually given to Lucian
Vidic who patented an instrument of the
type in 1845, but similar instruments were
in use much earlier. In 1799 Nicholas Conte
devised an instrument in which the lid or
the metal chamber was supported by internal
springs. The commercial manufacture of
aneroids followed after E. Bourdon’s patent
of the metallic monometer in 1849, when
Bourdon and Richard placed about 10,000
aneroids on the market. The production was
stopped by an action taken by Vidie against
Bourdon for infringing the former’s patent,
and in 1858 Vidie obtained 25,000 francs
damages. .
What kind of winds arc the following:
(1) bise, (2) harmattan, (3) mistral and
(4) simoom? —9390.
(1) A keen, dry n. or n.-n.-e. wind preva-
lent in Switzerland and neighboring parts o’f
France, Germany and Italy. (2) A dry
parching land-wind which blows during
December, January and February on the
coast of Upper Guinea in Africa ; it obscures
the air with a red dust. (3) A violent cola
n.-w. wind experienced in the Mediterranean
provinces of France and neighboring dis-
tricts. (4) A hot, dry suffocating sand-
wind which sweeps across the African and
Asiatic deserts during .spring and summer.
Who were the Seven Wise Men of Greece?
For what were they famed,? —9431.
Bias, Chilo, Cleobulus, Periander, Pittacus,
Solon and Thales. They were, the authors of
the following famous mottoes, inscribed in the
temple of Apollo at Delphi: “Most men are
bad,” Bias; “Consider the end,” Chilo;
“Avoid excess,” Cleobulus ; “Nothing is im-
possible to industry,” Periander; “Know
thy opportunity,” Pittacus; “Know thy-
self,” Solon; “suretyship is the precursor of
ruin,” Thales.
(1) What is the Beverage aerial? (2)
Upon what principle does it operate? (3)
Its advantages over the ordinary type of
aerial? —9440.
(1) It consists of a straight horizontal
wire, a wave-length in length and supported
at a height of from 10ft. to 15ft. abo've the
ground. This wire points in the direction
of the transmitting station, the end nearest
the transmitter being earthed through a re-
sistance, and the other end connected to the
receiver. (2) A signal wave, arriving from
the direction in which the aerial points, in-
duces comparatively feeble currents at the
resistance end of the aerial, but they build
up as they travel along the wire towards the
receiver. A wave arriving from the oppo-
site direction induces feeble currents at the
receiver end; these increase in value as they
travel along the wire, but are absorbed
by the resistance at the far end. (3) It is
noted for its sharp directional effects and
its greater freedom from static.
/ wish to renovate my bicycle. (1) What
paint should be used? (2) How applied?
(3) Where to get transfers? (4) How to
put them on? —9135.
(1) Air-drying cycle enamel. (2) With
a soft brush. The old enamel must be
scraped off first. (3) Any large cycle shop.
(4) The transfer is coated wuth gold size
and when tacky is placed in position on the
cycle tube. Later the paper backing of the
transfer is washed off with a sponge.
Rough-and-ready rule for distinguishing
firs from pines? —9391.
The firs are distinguished from the pines
and larches by having their needle-like leaves
placed singly on the shoots instead of grow-
ing in clusters from a sheath on a dwarf
branch. Their cones are composed of thin,
rounded, closely imbricated scales. Pines
differ from the firs in their hard, woody
cone-scales being thickened at the apex, and
in their slender needle-shaped leaves grow-
ing from a membranous sheath either in
pairs or from three to five together.
In a N.S.W. country town in the ’seven-
ties a 100 -mile horse race was run. Any
details available? —9377.
It was arranged to take place at Howlong
on June 27. 1876. Viking ran 87s miles in
less than eight hours. As his opponent, a
lio’rse named John Sullivan, was pulled up,
the race was not finished.
I wish to take up leather craft. (1) What
skins are used? (2) What tools will l
need ? —9361.
(1) For such decorative work as will
require modelling and coloring sheepskin is
generally in use; for bold strong work use
cowhide; calfskin for fine work; velvet Per-
sians. velvet calf and chamois for appliques;
and doeskin for gloves. (2) For a start, a
wheel for all general outlining, an outline! -
and opener, modelling tool, straight tracer,
repousse hammer, revolving spring pliers,
leadblock. saddler’s knife, small slab of
marble, sponge, ball punches and a marker
for hand-sewing.
Brief Answers.
R.8.N.: A “resident” of N.S.W. is described
in the Income Tax (Management) Act 1928 as a person
whose usual or principal place of abode is within
the State. A resident is liable to N.S.W. State
income tax on income derived from sources within
the State only, whereas unemployment relief tax is
payable on income derived from all sources unless
from the profits of a business outside N.S.W.
This is held to be the law—whether it is
good law is another matter... .D.H.D.: The
Reduction of Rents Act 1931 provides that,
unless by older of the Court, premises let
at. the time of the Act’s commencement shall not be
leased anew at a higher rent than that allowed by
the Act. .. .T.J.0.: Can’t say from information given.
A post-mortem examination should be made by a vet.
or inspector of stock. .. .R.C.8.: Ants can be
destroyed by dusting the lawns with vaporite at
the rate of 2oz. per square yard; it should be
watered in. This is not injurious to the lawn....
E.D.W.: Use dry red-lead and gold size, mixed into a
fairly stiff consistency and inserted in the joints.
See that it has set hard before any pressure is put
in the pipe F.M.L.: (1) The Summer Hill
Hurlstone Park line was opened for traffic on January
11, 1915. (2) It was never a steam tramway.
(3) Comparisons of revenue are not available, as
the earnings of this line are not kept separately.
. ...A.5.11.: From 11. N. Seward, 457 Bourke-strcet,
Melbourne. .. .E.V.T. : Caused by friction and occa-
sional interference between inflowing air and out-
flowing liquid. Only way to prevent it is by fitting
a nozzle in which a separate air tube is included in
the spout, placed so as to be clear of outflowing
liquid... .P.A.W.: From Angus and Robertson,
Sydney... .F.S.: (1) He was appointed by the
British Government. (2) and (3) No record. . . .E.D.F.:
Can’t be done by an amateur. Send a sample to
Government Analyst. .. .J.G.: Apply to shipping cos.
. ...W.E.C.: Two of these mills have been installed
in Q’land. Agent is A. J. Jones, Ascot Chambers,
Queen and Edward streets, Brisbane. .. .R.K.: Write
Agriculture Department, Brisbane, which can also
supply information about lucerne and pineapple
culture. For literature on olives, apply to Agri-
culture ' Department, Adelaide... .W. 8.5.: Write to
Secretary, Department of Markets, Canberra.... D.M.:
Write Under-Secretary, Agriculture Dept., Brisbane.
.\..AV.J.F.: N.S.W. law prohibits us from furnish-
ing information concerning sweeps conducted outside
the State. .. .T.P.A.: Take a tourist-class ticket from
Hobart to Aden, fare £2B, thence second-class by a
British-India steamer from Aden to Mombasa, £32;
both fares plus 18 p.c. exchange. The best time
for travel is between October and February....
0.G.A.: Write Under-Secretary, Agriculture Dept.,
Brisbane. .. .J.P.: A letter addressed care of us will
reach her G.T.P.: (1) Write Under-Secretary,
Agriculture Dept., Sydney. (2) Get in touch with
N.S.W. Newsagents’ Assoc., Clarence-street, Sydney.
(3) W. H. Paling and Co., George-street, Sydney,
may be able to help y0u....T.G.: (1) No, copyright
must be effected by registration. (2) Yes. (3) Yes,
if it does not comply with certain conditions....
W.S.F.: You are liable. There is no provision for
differential rating. The £4 minimum assessment
referred to is valid... .J.M.C.: Write G. E. Crane
and Co., 35 Pitt-street, Sydney... .E. 11.: Only by
advertising or by getting in touch with persons going
abroad. .. .A.8.J.: Write Chief Librarian, Mitchell
Library, Macquarie-street. Sydney... .T.W.M.; Write
Under-Secretary, Dept, of Mines, Brisbane.... 8.C.:
In 1929-30 there were 23 tobacco factories in Aus-
tralia. Twelve in Yic. employed 1475 hands and
eight in N.S.W., 2505. Of leaf used—l,l9l,s6Blb.
was Australian-grown and 17,983,1131 b, was
imported. Value of final output, £7,523,114....
C.D.: Foster’s, Ltd., 192 Sussex-street, Sydney,
Bs. 6d D. 1.: At Central Station (Sydney) during
financial year, 1931, 1166 hands were employed, whose
wages totalled £270,856. Passengers’ journeys
numbered 10,063,430 and ticket earnings were
£1,293,689. .. .Wagga: Without being bound, it
would be wise to do so, as they are responsible to
the beneficiaries under the will for their acts. In
the case cited they would have to show that their
action was in the interest of the beneficiaries and
would ultimately enhance the value of the estate. .. .
A.A.8.: (1) and (2) He is responsible only for pro-
viding her with necessaries, having regard to her
station in life. (3) Publication in the newspapers
that he will not be responsible for debts contracted
by her and notice to tradesmen. .. .R.S.: “Wilson’s
Street Directory,’’ 4s. 6d., any bookseller. .. .W.R.:
In cutting or drilling glass, a solution of camphor
in turpentine is used to give the tool a grip....
T.L.8.: Presume you refer to “Nature Fantasy in
Australia,’’ by A. 11. Chisholm, Angus and Robertson,
16s. 6d J.S.D.A.: See “Australian and N.Z.
Writers’ and Artists’ Year-Book,” any bookseller,
2s. 6d N.D.: “Handy Hints for the Farm,’’ from
this office, Is., plus postage, 2d C-K.: From
Hemingway and Robertson, Barrack House, 16
Barrack-street, Sydney.... J.P.G.: I f your purchase
was made on the completion of the house, any debts
due by the builder were his liabilities, not yours.
The sale to you having been completed, the timber
cannot be removed without your consent. The
timber-merchant could lodge a caveat against the
transfer if he thought he had good grounds for doing
50....J.M.: If the new will has been properly
drawn, it will contain a provision revoking previous
wills. It is not necessary to inform the former
solicitor of your action, but it would be well to do
so and retain a copy of your letter, to be attached
to the new will. Ordinarily any bank will receive,
at a customer’s risk, documents to be deposited in
its vault.. . .P.H.: The money must be paid, but.
adequate grounds being shown, probably time would
be allowed. She should call at the Probate Office
and represent the facts. . . . J.F.K. : If you did not
stipulate when entering on the new lease that pay-
ment of rates and taxes should be by the landlord,
you appear to be liable... .K.C.T.: To qualify as a
solicitor you would have to serve five years as an
articled clerk and before being articled would have
to matriculate. A correspondence school might assist
you in studies preparatory for matriculation....
J.C.T.: There is very little difference between the
stone and the plate in lithography save that altera-
tions can be effected on the stone by scraping- cut
or rubbing down, and the blacks may be hatched
into if too intense, whereas the plate cannot be
altered once the design is placed on it. . . .C.J.8.5.:
Where the applicant for copyright is the assignee from
the author, the applicant must forward with his
application each assignment or instrument by virtue
of which he derives his title, with an attested copy.
. ...M.M.S.: “Evening News Year-Book,” Is., all
booksellers. Not published this year. . . .R.W.: You
do not state what improvement you want to make.
Ringbarking should not cost anything like 225. 6d.
per acre... .H.J.M.: Write Geo. E. Fortescue and
Sons, Arncliffe, Sydney, for copy of their IXL
windmill catalogue, which gives instructions on the
subject.... S.H;P.: Write to the High Commissioner
for the Western Pacific, Suva, Fiji S.L.: (1) Join
one of the many amateur theatrical societies in
Sydney. If you have talent an opening will soon be
found for you. .. .A.E.Fi: Such alterations would
not affect your position under the Copyright Act.
You are liable for payment of royalty. If you are
unable to pay royalty, stage a play the copyright
of which has expired.... (Many others mailed.)


Blue North
By
H. Drake-Brockman.
CHAPTER XXII ( Continued ).
IHAYE been so happy, John,” said
Sophie, twisting the open collar of his
shirt in her fingers. “But I’m glad we
can marry for another reason. I used to
feel sad when I thought that your son
would be only a love-child like me. Now
you can be as proud of him as I will be!”
John looked at her in surprise.
“Son?”
“Of course it will be a boy,” she mur-
mured absently, thinking of the fat baby
she nursed once at Mrs. Coffey’s, the baby
with blue eyes like those of Mr. Fordyce.
John wondered—would not an intervener
mar the perfect symmetry? Yet had not
one of his grievances against Euphemia
been her disdain for maternity? And
Sophie, little more than a child herself,
treated the affair as the most natural hap-
pening in the world. Sight of the girl’s
face, of a tender smile curling her lips as
she peeped into the future, sent the blood
pounding through his veins. A son!
“He will be a love-child all the same,”
he whispered, with lips close to hers.
He told her then how the Georgette had
been driven on the rocks of the south-west
coast. One boat had capsized, and in that
had been Euphemia. Her body had not
been recovered, although the majority of
the passengers and crew had landed in
SQifsty
“Thanks to one of the Bussell girls,”
said John, “and a half-caste boy of her
father’s. I stayed at Wallcliffe more than
once in the old days, Sophie. A pretty
place, very different from the country up
here. But the rocks on the coast are hardly
good to be wrecked on. It seems young
Grace Bussell made a heroine of herself.
The boy rode in to the homestead saying
a ship was driving in-shore, so off went
Grace to see if he were right, and the two
of them rode out into the surf—it must have
been blowing big guns, too —with a life-
line, and just about saved. the lot. The
boat had been lowered before that and
tipped over. I remember Grace quite well.
She can’t be any older than you, Sophie—
a mere child! And a veiy pretty child,
too!”
Sophie pouted and looked at John
through her lashes. “As pretty as I?” she
asked.
John laughed and caught her close. “Aha,
Sophie, you are growing up fast! You are
not pretty at all—you are just the whole
world rolled together in one sweet bundle!”
They had forgotten poor drowned
Euphemia, and the visitor awaiting John
on deck.
A week later the Sprite sailed into Cool-
gurra Creek. Ever since that enchanted
Christmas, cock-eye clouds had piled and
gathered, mountains of snow traversed by
purple gorges or cleft by shining precipices
whilst the sun shone, but like sinister crags
of black rock when the light failed. A moan-
ing sound sighed through the hot air; now
and again a long slow roll would shudder
across the ocean from the north, gently
lifting the Sea Sprite, swiftly and silently
passing to break with a muffled hollow
boom upon the rocks in-shore. Immobility,
silence, oppression weighed upon the world.
The sea birds forgot their cries and wheeled
around and above the schooner like mute
ghosts of the sea. The barometer danced
and veered alone in a stuffy calm.
John Fordyce bethought himself of
Captain Mac Koo. Perhaps the old fellow
would get his willy-willy! It might be well
to seek the haven which he had mentioned.
Ships joined the Sprite. The pearlers
met on each other’s vessels and discussed
the advantages of different anchorages.
For the most part they considered a spot
nearer than the Coolgurra Creek to offer
sufficient shelter. They all decided to run
for it should the weather grow yet more
threatening, but John sailed off to look
without waiting.
He found a little harbor, snug enough,
but with too many reefs and shoals around
to satisfy him it would be a suitable haven
in a willy-willy. He looked at Sophie and
his heart sank. If only she were safely in
Cossack! Useless now to turn back. If
the willy-willy came it would meet them
half-way—and in any case had not Mac Koo
declared Coolgurra was the safest anchorage
on the coast?
So to Coolgurra the Sprite sailed. About
the mouth of the creek were dotted two or
three islands, with long sandy spits running
into the sea. Even at half-tide the channel
between the largest island and the main-
land would have floated a much larger
vessel than John’s trim schooner. They
made the creek at noon, but so enticing
were the banks off the island that John,
deciding to wait until morning to enter
upon his tour of inspection, went off in a
dinghy with five of his boys to look for
shell.
They struck a patch. Not even in the
best days at Paradise had they done so
well. As often as not the boys rose with a
pearl-shell in either hand, their open brown
faces grinning in delight. So keen were
they, John had perforce to make them spell
off. They would have gone on diving
without respite, so warm and shallow the
water, so thick the oysters on the bottom.
John, not for the first time, felt some
reason lay in his reputation for luck.
Sophie had wasted no time in telling
Babbet of the good fortune which had be-
fallen her. She informed the mate as well,
but Babbett it was who had befriended
her as a lone, unhappy child and who had
proved a staunch and trusty adviser in the
midst of her perplexities.
“Just think, Babbet,” said she raptur-
ously, “I shall be Mrs. Fordyce! Oh, it is
dreadful to feel so happy—it almost hurts
me. Do you think”—she hesitated, hardly
caring to ask, yet longing for reassurance—
“do you think I am wicked to be so happy
about—her—dying?”
“Lordy, no! Yer’d not be natural if yer
weren’t, Missie. Yer never knowed ’er—
no more did I, thanks be! It’s me own
opinion it only shows yer two wuz meant
fer each other. Don’t yer worry yer ’ead
no more. Be ’appy as yer like!”
So the girl leant over the taffrail and
gazed into blue seas, but saw only the
blue eyes of John Fordyce smiling at her
from a baby face.
But Babbet, alone in the galley, shook
his old head doubtfully.
“It ain’t no good,” he mumbled to the
potatoes and onions, “no damned good!
Trust thet tartar of a woman ter muss things
up by gettin’ ’ersel’ drownded instead o’
dyin’ decent in ’er bed!”
The mate went into raptures over Cool-
gurra Creek. Never, he declared, in all
his seafaring days had he seen such a snug
harbor—a ship could ride out any storm
here.
Sophie was enraptured, too. They might
be sailing into some land of legend and
romance, she thought in her inarticulate
way. The water lay before them like a
broad highway paved in sapphire, and on
either side rose mangroves, not the gnarled
and twisted villains of the swamps, but
slender trees, an emerald forest through
which the Sprite glided along the avenue
of the creek.
They dropped anchor in mid-stream, to
find later they lay afloat even at dead low-
water. No uncomfortable hours in a lop-
sided ship at Coolgurra—always blue water
in the midst of a forest!
“Here we shall stay,” announced John.
“We are safe as a church. And every day
we will take the dinghies down to the
mouth and shell on that bank.”
The boys worked well. The depression
which gradually closed down upon the
whites left them unmoved. But the silence,
the fitful gusts of hot air passing over the
dark water, the long uncanny ocean rollers,
the thud and boom of them as they broke
in-shore filled John with presentiment. As
the pearl-shells tumbled in thick and fast
he kept assuring himself his luck must
hold; but he thought Sophie white and
strained when he returned to the Sprite, and
ached with a vain longing to have her safe
on shore.
He did not know her pallor was entirely
due to Babbet’s superstitions. During the
day, to pass away the time whilst the
dinghies were away, the cook had clambered
into the rigging and taken with him his
master’s glasses. Babbet always liked to
know where he was. The wall of man-
groves enclosing the schooner served but
to whet a curiosity as to what lay behind.
For an hour or more he perched aloft,
examining the landscape with interest; but
when he descended at. last to bring Sophie
an afternoon cup of tea, his face was glum.
“You’ll never guess wot I seen, Missie,”
said he. “Wish I never went up! Not
the't it makes any difference. But each
time we sets eyes on ’im some’t goes
wrong.”
Sophie sat up, her lax .form suddenly
tense.
- “Him?”
“Yis, ’im! ’ls blarsted three-masted
schooner stood off to the south an hour
back.”
The girl’s eyes dilated. Babbet’s beliefs
always found echo in her own heart, no
matter how much John might laugh.
“Perhaps it was a boat for Fremantle?”
she suggested hopefully.
“Not it! Reckon I knows the looks of
thet bird o’ ill-fame by now. It was Baia
Budson’s schooner right enough!”
In answer came the muffled boom of
breakers, like the voice of the sea fore-
telling doom. The Sprite quivered as she
was lifted and lowered. Sophie and Babbet
stared at each other, their nerves taut
strings to the spectral finger of superstitious
fear.
CHAPTER XXIII.
Concerning a willy-willy.
Nguri rose to the surface and shook the
water from his eyes.
“Gottem?” inquired John.
“No, boss.”
“The game’s no good this morning,
Nguri. Only gottem three feller shells in
two hours. Why for? You catchem big
feller lot yesterday.”
The boy clambered into the boat.
“Plenty-much night-time down there,
boss; no can see. Close up one big-feller
blow, mine t’ink it.”
John rested on his oars, and for a
moment the two men stared at each other.
Both big men and straight, in the heyday
of life, water glistening on the brown naked
trunk of the native Australian, sweat trick-
ling down the rose-brown skin of the white
man’s chest, where his shirt hung open to
the air. The heat was intense; no longer
bright glancing heat of the sun, but suffo-
cating warmth, filtered through layer after
layer of dense cloud hanging low over the
water. The islands lay like purple shields
upon an inky sea; sandspits gleamed like
naked swords of silver. The silence hurt.
“Mine t’ink it, too, Nguri,” replied John
grimly.
The rest of the boys showed up. One
after the other they scrambled in.
“We go along schooner now, boys,” said
John, relinquishing the oars to brown hands,
for not a breath of wind stirred the surface
of the waters. He called to Wilson, a few
yards distant, and the dinghies set off, up
creek to the Sprite.
John went below to study the barometer
immediately he stepped aboard. It was
still falling. He fully expected as much,
yet his heart turned to lead in his breast.
They would not escape; no doubt now
remained; the Sprite and her company were
doomed to face a willy-willy.
Sophie was lying in his hammock. She
looked pale, John thought, but perhaps it
was only a trick of the ghastly light, for
her eyes shone brightly enough, her smile
at sight of him flashed gay as ever.
“Not much hope now, Sophie,” he told
her. “There doesn’t seem to be the slightest
chance of the willy-willy clearing off. But
we are snug enough here —by the time
Wilson and I have finished with her I think
the Sprite will be fit to weather anything.
Promise me not to be frightened?”
“I’m never frightened of the sea,"’ she
smiled, quaking with a more deadly fear
she hid from him. “I love storms.”
John went to make preparation, with her
words ringing in his ears —ah, if this were
only a storm!
Yet, when worn out and exhausted by
much effort in that torrid atmosphere, he
stood and surveyed his schooner, he felt
satisfied. They had unbent the mainsail,
stripped jibs and staysail and gaff-topsail,
folding them below in the hold. They had
battened down the hatches and driven stout
nails through battens into combings to
render them doubly secure. The forehatch,
with its freight of shell, was similarly
secured; the cabin-slides brought forward,
nailed and lashed.
As there was plenty of room to swing,
John laid his three anchors out ahead, with
90 fathoms on his bower, 75 on his. working
anchor, a 15-fathom length of chain and a
good warp on his kedge.
“And that should hold a vessel six times
the tonnage of this, in any weather,’
averred the mate in satisfaction.
Up came two of the dinghies next, and
with oars lashed under the thwarts, were
turned upside down and secured through
ringbolts to the deck. One boat John left
to take its chance in the water, merely
securing it to another ringbolt by a brand-
new painter. And in her were lashed oars
and rowlocks and a bucket.
Well, for some, he left her so!
At last they were finished. Whilst master
and mate and crew worked hard on deck.
Babbet had prepared a meal; not a bite
had John eaten since sun-up. Sophie begged
for something to do, and fluttered wistfully
about, arranging and rearranging the little
table.
Night shut down black and thick and
sticky. But just before the faint light
snuffed out, borne on the tide and a wisp
of breeze, Budson’s three-masted schooner
crept up the creek like a grey and sinister
shadow.
Babbet muttered into his drooping mous-
taches, his usually ruddy cheeks turned
yellow. “If that ain’t the Devil’s own
luck! I wonder, now, if Baia himself is
aboard? I’ll stake me oath someone is
sure to ’ave his ticket took fer Davey
Jones’s locker if ’e be!”
Rattle of windlass, the cries of Budson’s
crew as they set about their preparations,
echoed through the dark curtain of night.
Crew and divers turned in; but below, in
the stuffy cabin, John Fordyce and Sophie
and the mate sat watching the glass fall
and fall —and still fall.
The girl pressed close to John in spite ot
the intense heat. Now and again the roll
of the ship, as she lifted on one of the
ocean’s shudders, threw her gently against
him, and he would feel her shudder, too.
He picked up her hand and held it on his
knee, bending and opening the slim limp
fingers, and every little while he would turn
to smile into her eyes. All three said little.
They sat there mutely waiting, sick with
a foreboding each hid from the other, wait-
ing, waiting for the voice of the willy-willy
to thunder from the night.
But still it tarried. They stole on deck
at dawn, a glimmer of grey so faint one
could scarcely see the face of another. Not
a ripple crossed the black water, not a
breath stirred. The world was dead; the
Sea Sprite, with her bare masts, a charnel-
house; her company no more than wraiths.
Suddenly a puff of scorching air burnt
their flesh. Another came, and another;
then thick and fast, as though the doors
of some gigantic furnace had been thrown
open.
“It’s upon us!” cried John, and dragged
Sophie backwards into the cabin.
The convulsions of nature transcend
description. No tongue, no pen can paint
the horror of eruption or earthquake or
hurricane. Even the minds of those who
out-live disaster retain but a jumbled im-
pression of agony, or the memory of one
outstanding terror. The wind fell upon the
Sprite like a monster, and with it came a
torrent of dmen rain. The gallant little
schooner met the gale like a live creature.
The sea leapt upon her, rushed and roared
along her decks, foaming, devouring. The
wind shrieked in the bare rigging, louder
and louder, rising on a note of anguish,
drowning every other sound. The wind!
It dinned in John’s ears where he crouched
beside Sophie, the most terrible voice he
had ever heard.
He looked at the cabin watch. Seven
o’clock and black as darkest night! By
the dim light of the lamp, rocking and
swinging as the schooner pitched and
heaved, he studied the glass. Would it
never cease to fall? In dismay he clasped
Sophie. Regardless of the morose Wilson,
who sat braced in a bunk against the roll
of the sea, they clung together. Impossible
to murmur words'of love or comfort when
only a shout was audible; but John and
Sophie had long passed need of words. The
girl closed her eyes. What did it matter,
she thought dreamily, if they were to die 0
They would be together!
Hours dragged past. The tide turned
and ran out against the wind. Caught
between conflicting forces, the Sprite rolled
almost on her beam-ends.
DOPE!
“The Bulletin’s” next serial is going to be different. It is by a
Collins-street doctor—an F.R.C.S., among other things—who
prefers, for professional reasons, to use a pen-name; and it deals
with a subject which nobody but a medical man could handle in
this manner. “Johnny,” who provides the story with a title, is an
Oxford M.A. who has become a “dope fiend.” “Johnny,” how-
ever, has better luck than most; he has a knack of falling among
friends, and the story, which soon quits Sydney for a cruise in the
Pacific, is a powerful study of the victim’s disease and his efforts
to beat it. It is one of the most gripping serials “The Bulletin”
has ever published.
The first chapters will appear on MAY 11.


m
a
-
Cabinet Design Registered-^9539.
an. cLVcLlu.es
are better
£)E LUXE console
.... as shown,
luxuriously finished
blackwood and
walnut.
Electric 41 - £36-10-0
Electric 301 £2B-10-0
Battery-operated 45
£34-10-0
Other models 18gns. to
£5O-10-0
F^ealimj'
GOLDEN VOICED RADIO
Is cLlffere-rut
ORDINARY radio will never
satisfy you.
See and hear the difference in Healing
golden-voiced Radio before you buy*
Your local dealer will demonstrate.
For catalogues and information write to
A. G. HEALING LIMITED
Manufacturers & Master Distributors
(Wholesale Only)
167-173 Franklin Street, Melbourne, C. 1, Victoria.
Cr. Pirie and Pulteney Streets, Adelaide, S.A.
164-170 Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Queensland Dealers write to —
R. J. ROSE, C/o T. W. MOSS & CO..
I 2 1 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Wilson crawled over to John. “We had
better cut the masts,” he bawled. John
nodded and rose. Sophie clasped him, no
longer dreamy. She could face death so
long as John held her—but not alone! “No,
no,” she cried wildly. “Don’t leave me.”
“I shall be back in half an hour, child,”
John shouted, gently forcing her hands
down. “It may be our only chance.”
She watched them creep out of the door
as if she were witnessing the end of the
world.
The wind pounced on the men as they
left the doorway, axe and saw in hand.
They threw themselves face down upon the
deck or else they had been whirled away.
They wormed along the deck in the shelter
of the bulwarks, until groping hands grazed
the goal. Wilson raised himself to a half-
kneeling position and lifted the axe. Scream-
ing in derision, the wind wrenched it from
his hands. In the darkness John felt the
mate’s fingers feeling for his saw, and
guessed what had happened. He rose,
determined to make the effort himself. The
wind seized upon him, shook him till his
teeth knocked together, whipped his shirt
over his head and sent the saw spinning
after the axe.
Wilson lay on his side and yelled in his
ear.
“Shall we try the anchor chains?”
Painfully they crept forward, drenched
and beaten and bruised. The strain on the
chain was titanic, but so far they thought
it had not dragged. Back to the cabin,
panting as though they had raced for miles,
crept the exhausted men.
But John laughed when he straightened
and looked at the mate. “Am I as bad?”
he called to Sophie.
Not two hairs on their heads lay together;
shirts were torn to ribbons and wringing
wet; their skins blood-flushed by lash of
the wind. Pools of water gathered round
their feet and rose in steam.
Sophie fell into John’s arms. “I’ll not
stay alone again. Listen!”
Above the roar of the gale, he caught a
menacing sound; a scrabbling, scratching,
tearing noise, as though the tempest sought
to find a way into the snug cabin.
“That is only mangroves,” he shouted.
“We were wrong—we must have dragged
right over the marsh—somewhere on top of
that forest!”
The glass still fell. John could scarcely
believe his eyes. He implored Sophie to
nat, but she shook her head. Of what use
food on the verge of death? Besides, she
was not hungry—so long as John held her
she scarcely cared how long the storm
lasted.
The wind roared and screamed and
whistled and shrieked and sobbed and raged.
The hands of the cabin clock dragged
slowly round. John drew dizzy. His nerves
were taut, his ears straining to catch the
slightest noise above the din of the hurri-
cane, wondering if the Sprite would go down
at her anchor, or whether the tortured
chains 1 would break, and the little vessel,
broadside on, be overwhelmed by mon-
strous seas.
“Can you swim?” he asked suddenly of
Wilson. He had known many a sailor lost
in the water, and, as he sat there holding
Sophie, his mind was busy with their slim
hopes of escape. He and the mate had
wormed their way far enough along the
decks to be certain the wind had swept
the planks clear. The dinghies had long
since gone, along with everything else.
“No,” yelled Wilson. “More’s the pity!”
“Neither can Babbet,” said Sophie into
John’s ear.
The Sprite gave a sudden lurch. She
heeled; John felt his heart turn over. He
dragged Sophie up the companion-way and
out on to the wind-tormented decks, with
Wilson at his heels. They thought the
schooner was sinking. From fo’c’s’le and
hold poured crew and diving boys, clinging
to whatever support they could find.
The Sprite recovered, lay once more
tossing on an even keel. Through flying
clouds pierced a shaft of light, which fell
on the flogged tops of mangrove-trees, on
seething waters, on haggard faces of the
whites, on rolling native eyes.
“Look!” shouted Wilson. “The dinghy
is still there!”
Miraculously, the boat left at tow was
full of water, but afloat!
“Thank God,” breathed John under his
breath, struggling to shield Sophie against
the strength of the wind. A vain struggle.
Wantonly it flung her hair about, tore the
thin silk of her garments, beat on her face
a stinging tattoo and strove to wrench her
from his protecting arms.
Wave after wave tore past, swirled round
their legs, and splashed away back to the
sea. Impishly the wind, before their
anxious eyes, tore off the tarpaulins and
broke through the hatches John had
thought sq safe, tossing them overboard like
matchwood. Hopelessly he watched the
first wave pour down into the hold. He
screamed to Nguri.
The native fought his way to his master.
“Yow, Boss,” he grunted as calmly as he
had done a hundred times before.
“We go down soon. You catchem dinghy
—Missie, Mr. Wilson, cook no can swim.
Suppose you takem other boy, go along
boat to mind ’em?”
“I can swim!” protested Sophie.
“Not in these seas.”
John watched Nguri gesticulating to the
other divers. They nodded. They under-
stood and were over into the raging water.
They caught the dinghy and scrambled in,
unlashed the bucket and commenced to
.bale.
Sophie turned white as death when she
realised John meant her to go in the dinghy
with the mate and Babbet. The frail
crWft would not hold all of them. She
clung to him; remorselessly he wrenched
her hands away. He vowed he would be
safe in the water amongst the boys.
“Look,” he cried, “she’s filling. You must
go, Sophie.”
“I won’t, I won’t,” she panted. “I can’t
leave you. Let us die together. I am
not afraid here. I am afraid to go into the
storm without you.”
Her desperate plea rose high above the
wail of the wind. John clasped her wrists
and set his teeth. “There is not much
chance, anyway, Sophie.”
“I won’t go,” she cried.
“Then think of me! What chance would
I have if I must help you?” John forced
out the bitter words.
Instantly she grew quiet. The grey eyes
stared up steadfastly. They filled with
tears, but her lips quivered into a ghost of
her flashing smile.
“I’ll go,” she replied, and the wind
snatched the words from her lips.
A shout came from the dinghy, whence
the boys waved for them to come. The
mate and Babbet crawled to the bulwarks
and after them came. John. The old cook
pressed his hands to his side; he had been
pitched hard upon the edge of the hatch-
way as he scrambled out.
“You go, sir,” he implored, his teeth
chattering—he had to shut his eyes when-
ever he looked at the heaving seas. “I’ll
chance it with the rest of ’em, and the boys
’ll look after me.”
“I’m still master here!” yelled John.
“Obey orders and look after Missie. Wait
for a good wave—now!” he called to
Nguri. “You see she safe,” he commanded.
With the agony of death in his eyes he
turned to lift the girl to the rail.
“Korr-korr!” yelled Nguri and plunged
over the side. Babbet and Wilson followed.
John tore Sophie’s arms from his neck and
his mouth from her lips.
She was half-swooning with despair; but
John had said she must go in the dinghy
to give him a fighting chance, and she made
no further protest. “I love you, John,”
were the last despairing words he heard as
he left her slip down to the sea and Nguri’s
outstretched hands.
Then suddenly he knew he could not let
her go without him—what hope was there
for any of them in this inferno, in either
dinghy or water? Even whilst he marvelled
at the magnificent way in which the boys
battled with the waves, he yet felt he would
fight for his love better than Nguri. Sophie
had been right • if die they must, let it be
together.
“Every man for himself,” he called to the
crew and divers, as he clambered to the
rail. The Sprite gave another lurch. For
a second John’s eyes strained into space.
Then he saw the dinghy; two boys already
had Wilson aboard, three more were strug-
gling with Babbet, and like a petal on the
waters, Sophie’s white face was upturned
beside the dark shape of Nguri.
“Coming,” jmlled John. Sophie was
climbing into the boat; she turned as
though she heard his voice. One vision he
had of her like a marble figure against
a black pall; the next a cry tore past on
the wind as the dinghy fell into the trough
of the sea. The wave rolled on; the little
boat had vanished.
(To be concluded next week.)
Return.
Only the seas would be the same if I went
back there now.
Only the same wild dawns would flame over
the mountain’s brow,
Only the great dark clouds would come and
the great dark clouds would go—
I would find the seas and the skies of home,
but home I would never know.
Stranger faces where strangers bide, for the
kindly hearts that were,
The hearts gone over the Great Divide this
many a year and year;
Streets where the footways used to run, town
where the gum-trees grew.
The same old seas and skies and sun. and all
the rest of it new!
Only the sea in the scarlet dawn, only the
morning star,
Only the veils of violet drawn where the
hills of evening are;
Only the roar when the tide turns round,
only the song of the tide —
Sky and ocean and cloud and sound, and
nothing the same beside !
They have hacked the forest and hewed the
hill, and the face of earth is changed,
But the white caps play in a south wind
still, and the skies are not estranged ;
And still are the summer days blue and long,
and the winters big with rain—
And I would be one who could not belong if
I went back home again !
I know if I saw the place once more I would
break my heart almost
With the breaking waves on a stranger shore
on a windy autumn coast,
And sense the truth through an exile's pain
of a right that is somehow wrong.
I never can win me home again—I have
missed my way too long.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


EAT A\
Nestled
TABLET
EVERY
DAY
“The man’s chocolate—
dark, bitter-sweet, smooth-
eating, blended with
choice roasted almonds.”
/TAKEA\
Nestle’s\
TABLET I
HOME J
V TONIGHT/
ISTeST LEX OUTDOOR
CHOCOLATE
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
r A
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIw
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Lang’s lawless embargo on the tote enabled
some of the bookmakers to bring out their
1-2-3 boards, after many years, at Canter-
bury Park on Saturday. They would have
done their useless calling more good by let-
ting the boards remain in the lumber-room,
for the prices they quoted were laughable
compared with what can be got on the place
machine at Randwick. This Page noted
down one gentleman’s offerings on a division
of the Juvenile Handicap: 10 runners, six
backed. They were: 5 to 2 on Gravure, the
winner; 0 to 4 on Gold Trail; no price
Parcourir (6 to 1 5.0.), evens Heroic’s Hope
(7 to 1 5.0.), sto 4 Bombastic, 2 Carapace,
3 the others. There was a poor attendance,
for which drizzling rain was not responsible.
Without the tote racing is unattractive to
many small punters. The crowd in office
is doing its best to kill a sport with which
a useful industry is associated, while fos-
tering the worthless business of following
the tin hare. -
The former M.L. jockey George Young
has a steady source of income in the Tippler
gelding Havaspot, a big chestnut. Havaspot
has picked up a race or two at intervals —
he is not overworked —since Young became
his trainer; and, a good weight-carrier, he
found lOst. 21b. no great burden in the first
division of the High weight Handicap.
Charalf, the runner-up, was favorite; Hava-
spot went out at sixes. George Talto (5 to
1), a speedy fellow from Bathurst, had a
runaway win in the second division, and
the time —lmin. 14sec. —proved that there
Bert : goins for av hike.
GERT •. GaO*T A. BEA.OTIFUU
DA.Y FOR IT?
Bert \* I think. nothin& about a.
TEN NW_e vvtk.UK. THESE
MORKIN£,&''
GERT ' NEVER G\s!e IT A. THOUC.HT
EITHER, - QOO-OVE I*
was very little wrong with the track. Cleave
(6 to 1) made the same time in the Flying
Handicap in which she showed that she is
much better suited at six furlongs than a mile.
. • • • • •
The condition of Rogerson is a credit to
G H Moody, who took up training as a
pastime and has leased fair horses from
Hunter White. Favorite, at 3 to 1, for the
Canterbury Handicap, Rogerson was never
further back than third, and in the straight
he soon disposed of Exact (5 to 1) and
Warneton (6 to 1). He is a four-year-old
bay gelding by Roger de Busli—;Sweet Alison,
and looks capable of succeeding at Rand-
wick—among second- and third-raters, any-
how. A place bookmaker s price on ms
rankest outsider for this race was b to 4.
’ , , ’, . *
Nea Lap (4 to 1) was helped to success
in the Ashbury Handicap by the mistaken
tactics of the rider of Intrepid in trying to
lead all the way. Intrepid is scarcely robust
enough for that sort of thing, fetill Inai
Lap’s sister is by no means a bad mare.
„ * . ... _ . '
For Roselnll on Saturday:
Granville Stakes: Irish Eyes; next, Rowan
or Khartoum.
Ckave Urn Handicap: w hittingham; next ’
Rosehill Handicap: Rogerson; next, Phlare
or Le Legion.
Highweight Handicap.: Rodondo; next,
Rowan or Sun Eagle.
* * * *
His victory in the Trial Hurdle at Epsom
(Vic.) last week disclosed Hayward as a
jumper of promise. This five-year-old tfon
of Venture had been successful over the bat-
tens at Albury, and the right money came
for him at Epsom, though Wirrate, trained
by Vin O’Neill, went out a point shorter, at
threes. The sight of padded hurdles was
unfamiliar to Hayward, and he lost much
ground by running dov>n the obstacles, yet
won with a lot in hand. Wirrate (second)
.showed greenness: he will take a lot of
“making” between now and Grand National
time.
Fortune seldom smiles on Tindall, but he
managed to land the first division of the
Novice Handicap at Epsom with Sericus, a
four-year-old gelding by Seremond from
Merle’s Robe, closely related to Mollison.
Tindall bought Sericus as a yearling for
200gns. It was by the narrowest of margins
that he defeated Headman, a Drake three-
year-old, but he finished pluckily and may
go on improving.
Progeny of Heroic did well at Ascot on
Saturday. First heat of the Purse went to
Pacific Flight, whose dam, Ridicule, is by
Absurd from an imported mare. C. B. Kel-
low, to whom Heroic belongs, gave 500gns.
for Pacific Flight as a yearling, and won
with him last season. The gelding now is
raced by the pony trainer M. Lewis. Pur-
chase of Lady Heroic at a similar age in-
volved an outlay of only 150gns. She was
successful in Sydney as a juvenile, and sub-
sequently found her way into the stable of
C. Fitzroy at Flemington. She deadheated
with Lady Emmerson in the second division
of the Purse. Miss Rylstone, the dam of
Lady Heroic, traces back to the famous N. S.
Wales brood mare Black Swan.
A noteworthy visitor to Ascot wag H. G.
Raymond, of the St. Albans stud, who
wanted to see how the Great Star gallopers
shaped. Sweet Lyra, by that sire, suffered
defeat in the youngsters’ race, but Metaphor
(Great Star —Bernalda) ran away with the
mile Ascot Welter. Backed down to 2 to 1
in a big field, Metaphor atoned for her fail-
ure in the Five Hundred a fortnight before.
She belongs to H. Ford, a Melbourne soft-
goods magnate, and is trained by Frank God-
by, brother of Oecil, of that ilk. The mount
was taken .by Sharp, a crack lightweight from
Brisbane.
At each of its Saturday fixtures the Y. T.
and R. A. sets an example to the down-the-
line clubs in Melbourne by staging an Ascot
Five Hundred, the distance varying from a
sprint course to a mile or thereabouts. Last
week-end the journey was 5 A furlongs.
Kaoota is hard to beat at Ascot. He was
weighted at 9.1 b on this occasion, but the
apprentice jockey claimed olb. allowance,
Always in the van Kaoota
Sir Graculus, with the heavily-backed Spnng
Creek third. Green Moth, the favorite, was
hampered hy not having raced at Ascot pie-
viously. She just missed a place. Kaootas
record m the Five Hundred is now 3 2 wins.
He is by Cyklon, sire of Trivalve,
* * *
For Mentone (Vic.) on Saturday:—
Juvenile Handicap: Varietas or Fictitious,
Mentone Handicap : Farlure or Whitsome.
* * * *
“Retired Urger” : Jack Higgins, who, when
j le came to Australia from India some years
ago and took on the job of chief stipe with
the A. J.C., nearly broke the necks of some
clever contingent by the fashion in
be p U ]i e d them up, recently paid a fly-
• v j s j t to these shores from Calcutta,
tQ wbicb be re t ur ned to take charge of the
supervision 0 f racing under the banner of
the Royal Calcutta Turf Club. It was
hoped that he might again settle in Aus-
tralia. That was not to be, however, and
be bag gone back to Hind after his holiday.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
When Larry Gains outpointed Dan
McCorkindale (South Africa) in London
last month, the Canuck was credited with
the British Empire heavyweight champion-
ship. The Palmer-Campbell clash at Rush-
cutter’s Bay next Monday night is billed as
for the title Gains claims, and local enthu-
siasts wonder how the winner can become
Empire champion without beating Gains,
Mclntosh plans to bring the colored Cana-
dian to this country, however, and a Gains
v. Palmer or Campbell contest should defi-
nitely decide the point,
* * * *
‘‘Mitt Shover”: One result of H. D. Mcln-
tosh’s return to Sydney Stadium is the dis-
patch of a cable inviting Jack Johnson to once
more display his sooty bulk and golden smile
to the Australian public. Johnson will not,
of course, figure seriously in the ring, though
he will probably give some exhibition stuff
and speak a piece or two. But even if he
is only led round on a string as an addi-
tional sideshow attraction at the big scraps,
the giant coon should be a drawcard. He is
a first-class showman.
* * * *
Walter Browning (14.2) of Montreal was
too good for Australian Jack Higgins (13.12)
at Leichhardt last Saturday, and the flying
tackle which got him a fall in the first round
almost finished Higgins for the night. The
Victorian recovered remarkably, however,
and managed to even the falls, with a figure-
four toehold, in the third. But a Boston
crab soon made Higgins submit to the decid-
ing fall.
Footbrawl
The Cup final at Wembley saw New-
castle United beat the London team, Arsenal,
by 2 goals to one. “Canny Newcastle” first
lifted “t’Coop” in 1909-10, and took it again
in 1924-25.
# * $ *
“Whaffor”: It is regrettable to hear of
fresh international complications at Shang-
hai. Recently when a team from the Royal
Scots was playing a Chinese side styled the
Tung Hwa, the referee, a European, gave a
decision which did not meet with the
approval of the spectators, who rushed the
ground and all but lynched the offender
before a police patrol car rescued him.
Owing to this and similar occurrences, the
authorities have resolved to erect wire net-
ting barriers to protect teams and officials
passing off the ground, so if any Melbourne
man should chance to visit a football match
at Shanghai he should feel quite at home.
$ * * *
Rain and muddy grounds took the edge
off football interest in Sydney at the week-
end. In the Rugby Union code the chief
attraction was the game between Drum-
moyne and Northern Suburbs at North Syd-
ney Oval, Drummoyne winning by 11 (2
tries, one converted and a penalty goal) to
8 (a converted try and a penalty goal). It
was a close hard game, with the issue in
doubt from start to finish. After a good
opening, both sides settled down to attempt
passing tactics under conditions which called
imperatively for forward work with the ball
at toe, and at half-time the only score was
a penalty goal to Drummoyne from Larnach
Jones. In the second spell play altered for
the better, and Oerutti, crashing through the
Northern defence, put Travis over, Larnach
Jones converting. Hemingway had already
landed a penalty for Norths and Carter added
a try, which the same kicker improved. Once
more Cerutti led a forward rush, and Bulgin
scored for Drummoyne after a great burst
by Palmer down the wing. The best showing
in the game, apart from Cerutti’s work for
Drummoyne, was that of Forbes, the
Northern fullback. Other results were:
Manly 23, St. George 11; Western Suburbs
6, Eastern 3; Randwick 13, Uni. 10.
At Sydney Sports Ground Eastern
Suburbs, last year’s League premiers, en-
gaged the weak University team in what
was looked on as a practice gallop. Things
didn’t work out to schedule, for well on in
the second spell, Eastern led only by 3 to 2
(a try by Boyle to a penalty goal by
Mclnerney). In the earlier part of the game
Uni. played correct footer for the day,
standing on top of the opposition and giv-
ing them as little space to move as possible.
Until well into the second half, too, the Uni.
defence was first-class, while the Easterners
faulty attempts to handle the greasy ball
also helped the students. A change came
when Stehr, of Eastern Suburbs, was sent
off. Shaking down at last. East ran all
over the now wilting opposition, and, adding
four more tries, three of them converted,
ran out winners by 21-2. Sid Pearce shone
in the winning forwards, while the ex-Rugby
Union half Thicknesse was clever behind
the scrum. Ogg and Mannix at centre stood
up manfully in the second-half debacle,
while Smythe was notable in a plucky lot
of forward triers. The other games resulted:
Western Suburbs 19, Balmain 8; St. George
14, North Sydney 5; South Sydney 19.
Newtown 14.
* * * *
“Alszwart” : There was surprise in N. S.
Wales Rugby Union circles last week when
the Maorilanders wrote protesting against
the first match of their Australian tour being
played against N.S.W. The game will be
at Sydney on June 25, and as the team
arrives in Langville early on Tuesday, June
21, there should be ample time for the visi-
tors to get the crimps out of their muscles.
Further, the All Blacks are not so punc-
tilious when other people visit them. The
last Australian side over there arrived in
Wellington just in time to make for far-off
Dunedin, where they were stacked on arrival
up against what is always one of the tough-
est football propositions in the Shivery Isles
—Otago.
* * * *
“Hooker”: There has been much Rugby
Union argument about scrum formations of
late. Clean fast hooking went out with the
introduction of the three-in-front system,
which not only failed to got the ball cleanly
itself, but prevented the opposition doing so.
A great deal has been said of the tendency
of the game to slow up. A return by all
hands to the two-in-front scrum would do
away with anything of the sort. In addition,
the 2-3-3 scrum automatically packed itself
and the wedge effect so desirable was much
more pronounced. Two leading English clubs
recently experimented with a rule which per-
mitted only the two opposing front-row men
furthest from the side on which the ball
is put in to hook for it. The sponsor of the
new notion was no less an authority than
W. M. Wakefield, and the experiment was
most successful. This system was practically
that in use in the two-in-front days, though
individual hookers had their own variations.
$ * * *
“Stand Off”: As anticipated, the Austra-
lian Rugby Union heads are troubled over
the matter of the national colors for the
South African tour. As they well knew
when they chose the present green jersey, it
had been the o njy wear for Springboks for
yearn and it has beeri the Irish. colot.eve.
since Ireland came into the Internationa
arena. However, after much cogitation it
has been resolved to return to the old N.S.W .
light blue, which was good enough tor the
Wallabies, the A.I.F. and the two Waratah
teams, _ provided Queensland, Westralia and
Victoria a re agreeable. As The Bulletin
pointed out when the green jersey was hrst
selected, _ the light blue is worn by no othei
international football side, another exceiienr
reason for its adoption permanently for
Australia.
* 0 011
Rover : The N.S.W. Australian lootball
League has decided to adopt the amendment
of the out-of-bounds rule, which has been
suggested by Victoria and is a compromise
between the old and new laws, neither ol
which has proved entirely satisfactory in
the past. At least five States will have to
agree if the new law is to be adopted, ias-
mania and South Australia are understood
to be agreeable, and that being so it is up
to Westralia and Queensland. The Ma
State League has also placed on record its
entire disapproval of the attempt by West-
ralia, South Australia and Victoria to prune
the voting powers on the Australian Council
of the three “minor” States. Tassy, N.S.W.
and Queensland. The N.S.W. League will be
able to give its patrons some inter-State foot-
ball this year, a side from Victoria showing
on the Sydney Cricket Ground on June 11.
( Continued, on nevt page.)
Victoria, stroked by A. W. McLeish. won
the inter-State eight-oar race on the Yarra
by three lengths from N. S. Wales, with
Westralia another three lengths away, the
time for the race on a fast-flowing river being
15min. 9 l-ssec. South Australia, Queensland
and Tassy also ran. This is the 28th win for
the Dark Blues since the contest started in
1878. The first race for the championship
sculls was a washout, competitors colliding
with each other and almost everything else,
Rowed off next day, the title was won by
E. Turner, of N.S.W., by two and a half
lengths.


Mick Simmons
RIFLE
w
An Unrivalled
Range of
SPORTING
RIFLES
No. 2 —THE. MAINE SPECIAL
BOLT ACTION RIFLE,
22-cal., take-down, with safety bolt.
For short, long or long-rifle cartridges;
21 in. round barrel; weight,
about 3Jlb
35 -
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 8/-
No. IO—STEVENS’ ** FAVOR-
ITE.** RIFLE, 22, 25 or 32 calibres,
R.F. round 24in. barrel, case-hardened
frame, solid breechblock, take-down
action, open front and sporting
rear sights; weight,
52/.
Carnage Paid
No. 11-ST EVENS* BOLT
ACTION REFLATING
RIFLE, 22-caL, magazine holds
14 short, 12 long or 10 long-rifle cart-
ridges—mixed or separate; 22in. round
barrel, slide action, ivory-bead front
and ladder rear sights; weight,
4*lb
75/-
Carriage Paid
No. 12 WINCHESTER
SINGLE SHOT RIFLE,
MOD E L GO, for 22 short, long
or long-rifle rim-fire cartridges; 23in.
round steel barrel, one-piece pistol-grip
stock, bolt action, ladder rear and gold
bead front sight; weight about
4ilb
47/6
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 15 —WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLE, 1906
MOD EL, 22-cal, 16-shot, 20in. round
barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, ladder
rear sights, slide action; magazine handles
15 short, 12 long or 1 1 long-rifle cart-
ridges; weight about
5 fib
£5/15/-
KfS
Carriage Paid.
o. 20 -WINCHESTER
EPEATING RIFLE
ODEL 53, 25/20 or 32 W.C.F.,
22in. round nickel steel barrel, lever
action similar to 1 892 Model, bandies the
ordinary cartridge, also the special Hi-
speed; weight about
61b
e
Carriage Paid.
No. 31— BROWNING AUTO-
MATIC RIFLE, MODEL 24*
22 short or long rifle; each rifle takes one
size cartridge only; walnut stock, pistol-
grip, I9|in. barrel; length 36in.; bead
front and rear sights; safety bolt; barrel
may be dismounted by unscrewing
threequarter turn;
4 Jib
weight,
85/=
Carnage Paid
No. 32— BROWNING “ TROM-
BONE.’* HAMMERLESS
REPEATING RIFLE,
22in. round steel barrel; handles 22 short,
long or long-rifle cartridges; screw rear
and open front sights; length
overall 39in.; weight 4Jib. . .
Carriage Paid.
90 -
Avail yourself of the services of
MR. LIONEL H. BIBBY,
Revolver and Rifle Shooting
Instructor at Mick Simmons
and Australia’s Recognised
Authority on Guns, Rifles and
Ballistics.
All Letters to Box 188, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MickSimmonsltd.
720-722 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY
“The Premier Sports House of Australia.”
Footbrawl
“Chev” • A record week-end rainfall has
moved the Victorian Football League to thmlc
of insurance against the wet. Footscray
Council, which is deeply interested m the
football industry, lias decided to insure each
of its nine League games, leaving the clubs
to gamble on the issue on their own account.
The premium for a £lOO policy is £q. The
Blind Institute started interest in the pro-
ject by netting £l5OO on an abandoned
charity match at the cost of a mere £lli>.
The League itself insured four matches for
£lOOO apiece and was glad to collect on
one. The odds given are usually 14 to 1
as to whether 10 points will fall in the
four hours before 2 p.m. The central weather
bureau’s gauge is the sole arbiter. This was
lucky for Collingwood, which collected on a
match last year although only a sprinkle
of the general downfall fell on the ground
itself.
sfc s!: * *
“ Jolimount”: The had weather in Mel-
bourne has resulted in the regrading.of Mel-
bourne Cricket Ground, begun some time
ago, being so delayed that it will be impos-
sible to play football there before the middle
of June at earliest, though it had been hoped
to make a start on May 21. The Melbourne
club has secured the Motordrome, just over
the way, but this will hardly make up for
the loss of the big and popular arena, as
gate receipts will probably, testify later.
* ■-!: S *
“Old Q.”: The inter-State Rugby Union
season begins in Brisbane on May 7, when
the Queenslanders take on N.S.W. at the
Exhibition Ground. The return game will
be played at Toowoomba, for the first time.
The Maroons are very keen on downing Ma
in the opening match, for the home side has
not won a game on its own midden since the
amateur code was revived in Bananaland.
May 21 will see the Victorians in action in
Sydney at the Cricket Ground, and alto-
gether there will be seven other big games
on the ground during the season against the
All Blacks and Queensland.
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League was
not long in climbing off the lofty perch from
which it banned the broadcasting of its foot-
ball matches, the motion being rescinded at
the next meeting by 22 votes to 1. What
the announcers had to say from the broad-
casting station on the first Saturday even-
ing after the ban went on must have awak-
ened the League to a realisation of the
bloomer it had made, for some of the ora-
tions were distinctly uncomplimentary to
that sensitive body’s policy. In any case, it
was making a virtue of necessity, since the
League cannot prevent broadcasting from the
Sydney Cricket Ground, where all its big
games against the Englishmen will be
played.
* * * #
“Rake”: While their Union confreres are
busy with each other in Queensland, the
N.S.W. and Bananaland League teams will
open their season on May 7 at Sydney
Cricket Ground. The Maroons have been leav-
ing no stone unturned to get as powerful a
side as possible together. Of late the game
has made good headway in Central and North
Queensland, the return of the Rugby Union
in the South having urged the League to
look for fresh recruiting grounds. A tour-
ney between a selected team from the North
and a southern selection will be played this
week-end in Brisbane; so the side to visit
Sydney promises to be truly representative.
Racquet and Bawl
“Let”: Although they had to play on
asphalt courts instead of the grass to'
which they are accustomed, the Australian
Davis Cup players made a good showing at
Honolulu. The opposition was fairly strong,
including Gledhill, who is ranked eighth on
the American list and is being spoken of as
a Davis Cup possibility if Vines is unable
to go to Europe. Gledhill disposed of Clem-
enger and Hopman, the latter after a tough
fight, but in the final Crawford played all
over him, winning by 3 sets to 1. With
Hopman, Crawford won the final of the
doubles.
sis * *
“Hotham”: The Australian tennis world
will he the poorer for the death in Mel-
bourne of T. A. Patterson, father of the
famous Gerald. He was himself an enthusi-
astic and capable player, and early noted his
son’s promise. His sound and careful coach-
ing had a lot to do with the subsequent suc-
cess of the Australian Davis Cup captain.
For years he sat on the council of the
V.T.A. for Geelong, and in this and other
ways did a great deal to further the
ests of his favorite game. He wa,s only 67
at game and set.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: Though he will probably
appear against Australia in the Davis Cup
play, it is unlikely that Ellsworth Vines
wili make the trip to Europe if the Yanks
beat our men. He is to be married about the
time he should be in Yurrup. This indicates
sheer indifference on Vines’s part, and the
least he could have done was to have post-
poned his marriage until the more serious
question of the Davis Cup was settled. Here
we want to take a schoolboy away from the
work which is preparing him for his future
career in order to make him play exhibition
tennis for the benefit of club and association
finances. After all, the gate’s the thing, and
hang anything else.
* * * *
“Wimbledon” : The British tennis-ranking
list on last season’s performances is headed
by “Bunny” Austin, though many good
judges consider that Perry, rated second, is
the better man. The list is based on singles
performances only, and though Austin and
Perry are certainties for the Cup team,
the other pair will have to come from
Hughes, Lee and Kingsley, who follow in
that order, though the first part of this
season’s play may discover some new light.
J. C. Gregory, who won an Australian cham-
pionship here some years ago, has not been
ranked. There is interest in noting how the
status of some of the players has changed
since the last ranking. Perry was seventh in
1930 and Lee second to Austin. Kingsley,
who is now fourth, was eighth the year
before, while Oliffe, then in Kingsley’s place,
is now near the bottom of the ladder.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: For some years past one of
the most attractive golf competitions in Vic-
toria is that for the G.P.S. Old Boys’ cham-
pionship, which has just been won for Hie
fourth successive year by Ivo Whit.ton. For
years the possibility of starting a tourney
of the same kind in N.S.W. has been dis-
cussed, and at last something is actually
being done in that direction. There should
be no lack of talent, for the majority of
Sydney players at least, including R. IT.
Bettington and young Jim Ferrier, are quali-
fied. But, somehow or other, Sydney seems
to lack the “old boy” spirit. The G.P.S. boat-
race has not resulted in the formation of an old
boys’ rowing club such as that in Queens-
land, which is cock of the metropolitan walk.
An attempt to form an old boys’ football club
in Sydney some years ago failed dismally,
though it is from the ranks of the G.P.S.
that the N.S.W. Rugby Union draws the
cream of its talent. In Queensland, on tin;
other hand, both the Union and League com-
petitions count old boys’ clubs among their
best.
“Carnoustie” : A recent step taken by the
New South Wales Golf Council will be
received with mixed feelings. It has given
a ruling that in future the practice of pro-
viding free drinks for all members on
the course when a man holes out in
one is to be discouraged. It is sug-
gested that some less expensive way of
celebrating the occasion be adopted. As
a Scotsman, I am inclined to agree as to the
occasions on which I have holed out in one
myself. On the other hand, when the other
fellow has performed the feat, and it is my
turn to fall into the queue, I hold entirely
differing opinions. The ruling, if adopted,
will come as a blow to many. I have in
mind a fellow-countryman who is too infirm
to play. Every day, rain or shine, he has
himself wheeled to his golf club, where he
sits all day near the bar waiting for some-
one to hole in one. He says that for excite-
ment it beats roulette or a suicide club hollow.
* * * *
“Colonel Damurize”: I note with qualified
approval a statement by an English asso-
ciate golfer to the effect that for a woman
of 40 golf beats all beauty specialists in
the matter of retaining a healthy outlook.
There can be no doubt that if the develop-
ment of an imposing presence denotes a
healthy outlook, golf is a boon to the asso-
THE MCINSTOUSH: “ Gentlemen : “On my right, Allan Campbell;
on my left, Ambrose Palmer. They meet next Monday
night.”
ciate sex. Since the Italian opera co. came
to Sydney I have had some opportunity for
making scientific comparisons. I have arrived
at the conclusion that, with one or two not-
able exceptions, the associate golfers of Aus-
tralia, and N.S.W. in particular, would if
mustered alongside a mob of macaroni-fed
prima donnas, make the latter look like
drought-time merinos just off the shears.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sandringham”: -Some fine golf was seen
at Melbourne Commonwealth club’s annual
open meeting, in spite of rain and sloppy
conditions underfoot. W. J. Fowler, profes-
sional champion of Victoria, led the field
home with a card of 151 (73-78). George
Naismith, the Riversdale professional, was
second, six strokes worse than the winner.
Third and fourth places were filled by the
amateurs F. L. Bulte and the youthful W.
Edgar. Both were on their home course
and, of course, derived some advantage from
the fact. Suite’s card read 158 and Edgar’s
159. The pair collected the Victorian four-
somes title last year.
“Baffy” : The par system of handicapping
for all courses, which was ushered in with a
flourish of trumpets by the N.S.W. Golf
Council some time ago, has come a thud. The
chief objectors are clubs inland, where
the courses approach to flintiness as summer
comes along. The Golf Council’s system is
based on distance, and this has worked
out in practice as quite unreliable. The first
act of rebellion in N.S.W. is that of the
Riverina Association. That body has not
been ashamed to take a leaf from the book
of the Ladies’ Golf Union, and modify the
par system by allowances to be made by the
handicapper for contour and nature of
ground to any hole. The summer and winter
differences on most courses are so consider-
able that a rigid handicap system is out of
the question. The Australian Golf Council
has already suggested adaptation to local
conditions on the lines indicated, and it is
time the heads of Ma State golf fell into line.
Car and Cycle
“Clutch”: Australian motor-road records
have been out of fashion for some time,
but a new one was hoisted last week when
Arthur Barnes, with A. Bolton as mechanic,
drove his 19-h.p. 'Citroen from Adelaide to
Sydney irt 26 hours 17 minutes, 3 hours and
21 minutes better than his own previous
record for the run made in 1929. The aver-
age per hour for the long spin was 46 miles.
t[t :|c ❖ H*
“Whizz”: Still another motor record went
west in France last week when a. Citroen
six-cylinder car driven by four men in relays
ran for 62,500 miles without stopping. This
was on the Montlhery track, scene of many
car records, and the average speed was 65
miles an hour. At last advices, the drivers
were carrying on, in the hope of covering
double the distance. The car manufacturers
are out -with a sporting offer of a million
francs to anyone who can beat their figures
before October. If that Maoriland Beach
continues to sulk, perhaps Wizard Smith
might take the defi. on.
v -!• '!•
“Dart”: Britain’s first motor rally on
the lines of the famous Monte Carlo event
came off recently, finishing at Torquay in
the south-west of England. Entries were
divided into two classes, below and above
1100 c.c., and there were 341 starters, nine
different routes of approximately ,1000 miles
in length being mapped out for the contest-
ants. This had to be covered at an average
rate of 25 m.p.h. for the big cars, and 22
m.p.h. for the prams, no allowance being
made for food or sleep for the drivers. There
were 295 cars in at the death, and 260 of them
lost no marks on the time schedule. In addi-
tion to the running marking, points wore
given for slow running, braking and accelera-
tion. It is worth noting that the first two
places wei’e taken by cars fitted with the
now popular fluid flywheel, which proved
the decisive factor in the slow-running test.
“Sprocket”: Queensland motor-cyclists are
angling for the staging of at least one of
the Australian classic events in the northern
State. The one most desired is the Austra-
lian Tourist Trophy race, but as that must
be applied for at least two years ahead, there
is not much chance of getting it for next
year, so it is intended to try for the Grand
Prix. There are several suitable road circuits
available, and the Queenslanders who rode
in the T.T. at Bathurst recently are con-
vinced that one, the Kingston circuit near
Bundaberg, is far superior to the N.S.W.
course.
Miscellaneous
W. P. McElhone, who died in Sydney last
week at 60, will always be remembered by
the Australian sporting bodies for the great
work he did in the
organisation of Aus-
tralian cricket. Over
20 years ago, when
the dispute between
a coterie of leading
cricketers, who wish-
ed to’ keep the con-
duct of the game in
their own hands, and
the N.S.W. Board of
Control arose,
McElhone, as chair-
man of the board,
straightened matters
out so thoroughly
that private control
of international cric-
ket passed away for
good. This was fol-
lowed by the estab-
lishment of the Aus-
tralian Board of
Control, of which he
was chairman for
some years.
“Tent h Slip”:
Having obtained the
assent of the Board
of Control, Arthur
Mailey is shipping a
cricket team for a
tour of Canada and
the U.S.A. by the
Niagara in May. It
is a coincidence that
a previous team, the
first to leave Australia specially for an
American trip, sailed in the same month and
by the same ship 19 years ago. That side
included Macartney, that great English
amateur J. N. Crawford, then a temporary
South Australian, Warren Bardsley and Her-
bert Collins, with Austin Diamond as
skipper. Victor Trumper could not get
away, and, though invited, it is likely that
the latest star, Don Bradman, will also find
business keep him at home.
❖ * * *
“Sturt”: Mount Crawford, which used to
be all Angus and Murray, is still a power
in S.A. polo. Its side, now Elliott Murray,
Lilliecrapp and two Keynes brothers, beat
Adelaide for the Barr Smith cup. Then for
the Melrose cup, a handicap, it gave 12
goals to Allendale, a sporting but novice lot
from Victoria, and won by 13 to the given
12. Women were the line-umpires in this
game, and matches for them are in prospect.
$ * :£ *
“Shrewsbury”: The annual obsession with
that most important schoolboy event the
N.S.W. Great Public Schools eight-oar race
for the “Head of the River” is now begin-
ning to obscured the iniquities of politicians
and other matters of no moment. The crews
are undergoing the usual intensive training.
Sydney shops are displaying miles of school-
color ribbons, and hordes of flappers who
wouldn’t know a G.P.S. product if they saw
one are rushing in to purchase the hues
affected by the school of their choice, that
usually being one of the colors which go
well with the enthusiast’s complexion. The
merits of Grammar, High, Shore and other
temples of rowing are being discussed night
and day in train and tram and street, and
there will be no rest for the mature citizen
until after May 7, when the final will be
rowed.
* :!: 3 %
“Hamilton”: The All Black team for the
Los Angeles Olympiad contains only one
woman athlete, Miss Kench, who will turn
out in the 100-metre event for her sex.
S. Black and A. Elliott are the male peds.
the first for the 200 and 400 metres and the
second for the 100 and 200. Three boxers
will also make the trip, and the rest of the
money has been spent on a rowing crew of
10 members. This, is a mighty sensible de-
cision. M.L. oarsmen have shown us on
this side of the Tasman that they are? in a
high class.


m
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caul Held,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Position Wanted.
YY/TDOW, 40, small child, used out-back
stations, like position cook or cook-
housekeeper. Go anywhere. Good cook,
bread-baker. Clean. References.
Mrs. A. M. MORRISS,
C/o Payneham Post Office,
South Australia.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
ROYAL- GOLD & CURRENCY EXCHANGE CO
40 Martin Place,
Sydney,
Phone 85417,
Also at
328 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
Highest Rates for the following Currency
.English Silver Coin..£l 3 9
English Copper Coin.. 116
English Notes .. 15 0
Sovereign .. .. 111 0
N.Z. Notes .. ..£1 2 0
Canadian Dollar Bills 5 8
American Dollar Bills 6 5
American Silver Dollars 5 0
Licensed Buyers of Alluvial Gold and Broken Jewellery of all
kinds. Specialists in Black Opals.
(Registered)
Reference:
E., S. & A;
Bank, Sydney.
New Zealand
and Interstate
clients consign
all goods
direct.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: E. J. Tait, Frank Tait, J. H. Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
GRAND OPERA SEASON.
CRITERION: THE BARRETTS OF
WIMPOLE STREET.
I. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
° MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: BITTER SWEET,
First production in Australia.
KINO’S THEATRE:
WHISTLING IN THE DARK.
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Nightly 8. Mats. Wednesday and Saturday, 2.15.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
Ella Shields, Gus Bluett, Jennie Brennan
in
VENUS, LTD.,
Ernest C. Rolls’s Latest Revue.
Twice daily, 2.15 and 8 p.m.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
"WEAK NERVES
UNCLEAN INTESTINES-
Cut Short Life’s Happiest Days!
Sparkling eyes, healthy cheeks, alert step,
animation —these things spell Youth, regard-
less of age. The man or woman thus blessed
will be found to have iron nerves —youthful
digestive system —clean intestines. When you
were a baby, Nature protected you by mil-
lions of “defenders” which prevented the
formation and spread of intestinal poisons.
But, as you grew older, foes of these “defen-
ders” appeared—putrefactive germs, usually
the result of wrong diet or of neglected in-
testinal hygiene. When these putrefactive
germs defeat the “defenders,” youth wanes !
To-day science enables you to take into the
system fresh “defenders” and, at the same
time, to fortify your nervous system against
its own special enemies. A simple method is
to take two or three tablets of Cream of Yeast
with a glass of milk twice a day. Do this for
a few days and see the improvement. Notice
the disappearance of lassitude, tired nervous-
ness, low spirits. See again that care-free
happy disposition; that buoyant sparkle in
your eye; the ready smile that once made you
popular. The transformation is real, and
you can begin it to-day. Get a 1/11 flask of
Cream of Yeast from your Chemist and see
how quickly this intestinal and nerve treat-
ment improves both health and good looks.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
It was spring on Gallipoli, it was autumn
in Australia, when the dawn rose on that first
Anzac Day. Here the leaves were falling,
the sap in the plants was stilled or ran slug-
gishly. Winter with his sleep was close at
hand. Seventeen years ago the boys of the
Dardanelles stormed those rugged heights
with laugh and song, and probably ribald
and grim jests, on their lips. But where are
the boys of the Dardanelles now? No boys
are left—many lie in Flanders or on iEgean
slopes. Time has made veterans of the liv-
ing. Boys of the Dardanelles! It has a
dashing sound, but the Anzacs who walked
in Monday’s procession were not dashing;
many of them looked as though they were
just holding the line, and finding this busi-
ness of life in their own land a tougher fight
than any they waged with Turk or Boche.
But heads up, chins out, they stepped to the
bands. You feel they are indomitable! In
the procession you saw the Digger, and hold-
ing his hand very often his small son or
daughter, and on the pavement watching him
pass by you saw the Digger’s wife or maybe
widow The latter you knew, not by the
weeds, but by the medals she wore.
When the marching columns divided and
passed the Cenotaph in silence, the onlooker
in Martin-place felt something of that wave
of memories that caught the hearts of the
quick as they turned the hour, and lived again
some high emprise, or maybe some foolish
little joke, with their comrade dead. Already
on the Cenotaph blazed the wreath of red
poppy, laurel and willow sent by General Sir
lan Hamilton; below it and about it were
massed flower tributes in every glorious tone
the autumn gardens know. Many had been
placed there as early as half-past four in the
morning during the dawn service of the
Australian Legion of the Ex-Service clubs.
As always there was a little group of devoted
women at this early-morning memorial, and
again this year Sir Philip Game and General
Anderson were there, and Padre James
Harold King read the prayers.
By half-past nine the crowds were gather-
ing in the Domain for the great open-air
commemoration of our soldier dead. Soon
all the vantage points commanding the dais
on which the service was held were thick
with men and women and children; pre-
sently waves of humans covered the green
slopes. High into the blue radiance of the
day the banners tossed their brave colors;
Grandfathers and grandmothers with mothers
and little Billjim and Billjane were to be
seen in numbers. Slightly older Billjims and
Billjanes turned an attentive ear to the loud-
speakers. Many of the little girls looked as
innocent as doves and as efficient as young
nightingales in the snowy white of the Junior
Red Cross. Young girls were there, pencil-
slim in the fit-the-skin frock of the moment,
their hats provocative, their eyelids heavy—
babies they must have been when soldier dads
went to the war, and still they pause awhile
tor-remembei’. But saddest of all amid those
emotion-swept thousands were the elderly
couples (and there were many of them), who
drew closer to one another, who sometimes
stood hand in hand, during the heartbreaking
surge of the hymns. Around them were no
grandchildren, nor ever will be. Their boys
are now the dust blown by the wind across
foreign lands. It is springtime on Gallipoli;
for the lonely bere it is indeed autumn.
Her Majesty’s is developing quite the air
of a sovereign holding a levee. Forgotten
are the Bohemian nights of musical comedy,
when minor royalties from mid-Europe
jazzed into the kingdom of love with the
pork-packer’s widow from Chicago or the
rum-runner’s daughter from New York. Foot-
men with white satin breeks, tail coats and
buckled shoon stand within the portals
giving an aloof and austere look to the
sleekly-plumaged men and women crossing
the vestibule. The old-established regal of
Pitt-street has pulled on the purple of
tragedy, the ermine of music. The grand-
opera season is well under way.
The frocking has been particularly bril-
liant, but the family • jewels seem to be
parked in safe deposits; possibly the cat-
burglar is to blame. Certainly there have
been a few earrings of the Great White
Way effect, starting at the lobe of the ear
and just swinging clear of the shoulder,
but these look to this Letter too good to be
true. Feather fans have stirred the air
languidly, lace frocks have trailed in soft
fulness along the aisles —two of the pretti-
est were worn by Justice Evatt’s fair-haired
wife and Mrs. F. J. Davy; the first struck
a deep ivory, the second a rich burgundy,
note. Mrs. Florence Taylor, tall and statues-
que, has worn black velvet and moire with
distinction; Mrs. E. Wunderlich’s Dresden-
china coloring has shone above pastel pinks
and palest gold ; with her to “Rigoletto” came
tall, bright-faced Beryl Grace. Chocolate-
man Ernest Hillier is a confirmed first-
nighter, as is handsome Beau Burdekin; the
Bertie Kellys are always there; so are the
Nassoors (he had much to do in forming
the company) ; Lute and Jean Drummond
drain an occasional draught; Nan Garvan,
erect and beautifully turned out, sits in the
stalls. The Spencer Bruntons and the A.
Edward couple turn an impressive presence
from the circle. Mrs. Bertie Kelly, it must
be noted, never repeats her dress effects.
One of her most striking entrances was
made in a satin frock, the green of young
grasses, its sleeves banded with sable. With
this went a tight little wreath of white
camellias, which bound her brow.
A word about Joseph Post, the assistant
conductor of the opera. He’s a Sydneyite
and a pupil of Alfred Hill. ITe can play
almost any instrument on sight, and orches-
tras have always been a passion with him.
It is told of him that he was terribly anxious
to be in the orchestra of the Melba Grand
Opera Company, and word came to him about
a fortnight or so before the season started
that if he could master the oboe in the time,
he’d be allowed to sit in the music pit. To
everybody’s surprise he had the oboe eating
out of his hand before the set time; and,
what’s more, when the company went on tour
the young man was taken along. It was
he who conducted Alfred Hill’s Maori
opera when it was presented at the Turret.
Another musicianly piece of work was the
production of the Brahms Requiem in St.
Brigid’s, Coogee. This is a monumental
work, and had not been heard in Sydney for
many years.
Earl Beauchamp hasn’t been playing the
social game very strenuously since his return
from Maoriland, so it was quite a pleasure
to see him at the Australia the other day
when Allan Campbell and Ambrose Palmer,
the heavyweight hopes of Enzed and Aus-
tralia, were the lions of the party. It was a
cheery affair, with bagpipes warning Palmer
that the Campbells were coming. He looked
undaunted. Quite a lot of the sex was
having a close-up of the prize-fighters; Hugh
D. Mclntosh looked as happy as a man re-
united to his first love. Of course, he made
a speech. Earl Beauchamp, who, in addition
to his other offices, is president of the
National Sporting Club of Australasia, made
another and a longer one. A disappointment
was that Campbell didn’t wear the pair of
floral boxing-gloves dropped for him from a
hovering ’plane to the decks of the Zealandia
earlier in the day.
Mrs. B. S. Stevens, wife of the newly-
appointed Leader of the Opposition, confesses
to not being versed in polities. Public speak-
ing, too, she
d e dares, is
not her strong
point, but the
workers for
charity in
Croydon de-
clare that she
has a talent
for practical
.sympathy. She
is on every
committee to
relieve distress
in her hus-
band’s consti-
tuency, and in
between times
she is looking
after her gar-
den, or enjoy-
ing a quiet
game of golf
or tennis. The
happy couple
have just passed the nineteenth anniversary
of their wedding. Swiss studio made this
picture.
Rugs in which the greens and the russet-
browns of autumn fields and the blues of
distant hills are woven; wools, in skein and
ball, which rival the rainbow, which suggest
the coral and jade and turquoise of some
island lagoon ; frocks of Jersey cloth; tweeds*
that look butter-soft; lacy woollen jumpers
—all these have been decorating the windows
and counters of the city stores. Clumps of
wool from the sheep’s back, in the corners
of the windows, seemed to look with amaze
at what art can do with nature. Blankets
soft and fleecy were piled in suggestion of
cosy nights. In short, wherever the eye has
turned this last week it has met the smile
of wool. For of recent years we have
strayed into the silken, primrose path, and
we must be taught by example and precept
where our duty lies. The wedding of Aus-
tralia and the merino may not have been
made in Heaven, but it nevertheless admits
of no divorce.
The business woman, in this respect, is
the mainstay of the retailer. There are so
many more of her than of the rich sister-
hood. In her hundreds she knits by day
and night, on tram and train and ferry. She
walks with long, wooden needles thrust
through her balls of wool, she works fluffy
lace patterns on fine bone needles. She must
already have used up miles and miles of
wool; and this is only April. How much
of the season’s crop she’ll have consumed
by the end of winter would make an inter-
esting problem for the “Wild Cat” ready-
reckoner.
There was great excitement through the
Salvation Army ranks last week when Gen-
eral Higgins and Mrs. Higgins stepped from
the Aorangi. A great concourse of their fol-
lowers met them with waving banners and
jubilant voices. He is an upright and vigor-
ous 67, and she a sweet-faced woman of great
energy, and with a wide-flung knowledge of
welfare work, particularly that carried on
under the Army banner. Mrs. Higgins was the
founder of the Women’s Home League, and
although this is only 24 years old it has
spread to every corner of the world where
the Salvation standard is raised. She tells
that even Paris has its resident hostel for
working women. It shelters no fewer than
700, and there is always a waiting list. The
welcome rally in the Town Hall must have
filled the earnest couple with a beatific con-
tent. Nearly 5000 Salvationists rent the
air with cheers, and 300 bandsmen all to-
gether thundered a greeting. Before that
there had been a march, thousands strong,
through the city, and although the rain swept
down the enthusiasm wasn’t damped in the
slightest. The General took the salute at
the corner of Liverpool and George streets.
The great stir of the opera was the
triumph of Molly de Gunst as Aida. It’s
nearly five years since this Letter
pointed out the purity of Molly’s notes and
her dramatic capabilities. She was then
just beginning
her work with
Madame
Christian, the
nun, now 84
years of age,
in charge of
the Garcia
School of
Singing.
Madame
Christian was
in her girl-
hood a stu-
dent of that
master, and
made some
appearances in
opera before
the cloister
called her;
she also re-
members
Melba’s intro-
ducti o n to
Marchesi’s classes. Molly, who is a Bunda-
berg girl, has now been eight years with
Madame Christian; she has never been out-
side Australia, and her singing and acting
as the dramatic and ill-fated Ethiopian
princess roused the house to a wild outburst.
Cheers and bravos swept like a great wind
through the house, and flowers rained from
the box where Surani, the Viennese Aida,
sat. Surani leaned half-way from the box
in her enthusiasm. She smiled, she clapped
her hands —she was clearly delighted over
the Australian girl’s success. Picture from
Falk.
While the excitement raged in the theatre
staid old St. Vincent’s, in Victoria-street,
had gone mad. Students from the convent
in between acts had kept the nuns informed
how things were going, and when a radiant
Molly arrived at the convent about midnight
she found a tremulous and excited Madame
Christian and some more of the community
nourishing the girls with a supper of bacon
and eggs and listening over and over again
to every detail —how had this passage gone
and that phrase? And now Molly pridefully
swings a long double string of exquisitely
cut crystal which her fond teacher gave her
in remembrance, and carries an envelope
handbag, black and gold embroidered, which
the girls in the “Aida” chorus bestowed in
congratulation.
John Gould was the Moor in the Indepen-
dents’ presentation of “Othello,” and was
very impressive in the part. Even when he
rolled dead down the two little steps from
Desdemona’s couch to ordinary stage level,
and you felt he might butt into the just-
expired Emilia, also cluttering up the land-
scape, he somehow retained his dignity.
Therese Desmond, her red-gold hair toning to
a nicety with the lining of the wide sleeves
to her white frock, looked as though she’d
easily been th@ belle of Venice’s younger set,
but was too monotonously sweet for tastes
of to-day. H’ow any bright flapper, even of
those days (and there’s evidence she was no
dullard), could have got herself into such a
net is incomprehensible. However, that’s
the story. Myra Leard, as Emilia, looked
and spoke like your true Shakspearean
actress. Her voice is clear and rich with
inflections, and her brunette coloring was
enhanced by a frock of Persian red. To Don
Finley goes a word of commendation for his
striking and ingenious stage set.
Still other Consular people to leave us
this year are Germany’s Consul-General
Busing and his wife. During her stay here
the lady has become a devotee of' the - surf
and the beaches; her husband’s next destina-
tion is Finland, whither he will go as Minis-
ter for Germany.
May Mitchell, that energetic and capable
secretary of the Crown-street Women’s Hos-
pital, is among those sailing to-day by
the Ormonde. May is sampling six months
in Europe, with probably a dash of America.
She is now the proud possessor of an opal
brooch given her by the hospital board. All
the auxiliaries, too, have spread lunches
and teas in her honor.
Mrs. Garnet Malley, whose flying husband
has a job in China, sailed last week by the
Taiping for Hongkong. Mrs. A. C. God-
hard’s lunch in her honor was only equalled
in gaiety by the dance staged by film-king
Stuart Doyle and his amiable consort.
Neutral Bay, where Bishop D’Arey Irvine
and his family had lived for many years,
felt a particular sorrow when the gentle old
man died last week. St. Andrew’s and all
its approaches were crowded during the
funeral service, which w’as as impressive as
ritual and affection could make it. Arch-
deacons, the Dean of Sydney, the choristers,
the Precentor, the bearers of the mace
and of the Archbishop’s staff, the lesser
clergy and the Archbishop walked in solemn
procession, and the sonorous music was
played by organist T. W. Beckett. Probably
the Anglican Cathedral has never held such
a representative group of mourners. Rich
and poor, the cultured and the unlettered,
filled the pews—proof positive of that good-
will to men which had filled the kindly
clergyman’s heart. The flowers that accom-
panied him on his long journey were a
striking mixture of the magnificent and the
simple. Sir Philip Game, the Chief Justice
and Mayor Walder were among the vast
congregation.
This Letter met sculptor Theo Cowan at
the Independents’ production of “Othello,”
and in between acts heard all about £he new
pottery which Theo is producing. It will
be known as Koala pottery, and each piece
will carry the name on a gumleaf design.
Theo, who is an artist of quality, studied
her sculping in Italy, and among her first
commissions were a statuette of the famous
actress Mrs. Brown Potter and a bust of
novelist Sir Gilbert Parker. The great point
about Miss Cowan’s pottery is the glaze,
which is satin-smooth and of the quality
seen in French pieces. Theo, in addition to
her modelling,-is a water-colorist of charm.
Queensland’s quota:—
St. Andrew’s, South Brisbane, saw the marriage of
Nell Nixon-Smith and John V. Cox. The bride, who
was given away by her brother, was in ivory satin
with a veil of rare old Brussels lace and a shower
bouquet of roses. Dorothy Cox and Eileen MeKenzie
’maided in rose mariette. The reception. was in
Rowe’s ballroom, ’ and the ’moon rises in Sydney.
At St. Stephen’s, William Haimaway married
Suzanne Lisle-Curley. The bride, who was given
away by her brother-in-law, Frank Meredith, was in
ivory satin with Chantilly-lace veil and cascade
bouquet of pale pink roses. Ann Macauley ’maided
in flesh pink. On the same day, Reg H. Miller
and Mavis E. McFarlane (“Little Miss Brisbane”
of 4QG), were made one. The bride wore brown
and oyster marocain, the short coat finished with
a scarf, and a brown velour hat. Margaret McFarlane
’maided in lido blue. Artist lan Gall best-manned.
The future home will be in Rockhampton.
At Toowoomba races at Clifford Park there was
some pretty autumn frocking. Mrs. Jondaryan Kent
chose brown; Mrs. iEneas McDonnell sported a
black seal coat over black and white ensemble;
Mrs. Kay Puckle was in black; Mrs. St. John
Tyrwhitt wore navy and white; Mrs. Dave Cullen
was in black floral crepe de Chine. Brown and
green, with fox furs, garbed Mrs. T. R. Hall (South-
port) ; Mrs. Armstrong (Sydney) wore dove grey
and Mrs. Norman Taylor, navy.
At Ascot races, Brisbane, Mrs. Cadell-Garrick wore
navy, Mrs. Colin Clarke dark brown, Mrs, Silas
Harding orange and brown, Kathleen Connolly brown,
Eve Green garnet marocain. Among those present
were the Isaac Moores, the Cecil Palmers and the
Leslie Galls.
Parties to brides-eleet included the Misses Cottell’s
bridge shivoo at Kangaroo Point for Jessie Lang.
For Enid Lahey, Mrs. Douglas Rylance and Doris
Dickson had a bridge tea, and another party was
given for Enid, who is marrying C. G. Edwards
shortly, by the J. Atkinsons, at Taringa.
The Queensland Press Institute had a tea at
Rowe’s in honor of General Spencer Browne’s 50
years in journalism, the president, Mrs. W. Young,
presiding. The General cut a birthday cake sur-
rounded by 50 roses. Mrs. Young wore black and
Mrs. Browne a floral ninon in green, red and blue.
Bishop Dixon read the marriage service over
Ronald Blackmore Grant and Sybil Holliman in
St. John’s Cathedral. The bride, who was given
away by her father, was in ivory satin with a
Brussels-lace veil. Jean Grant, Nell Harrison-Lucas,
Mavis Holliman and Blanche Hemsted ’maided in
vieux-rose mariette with coronets of gold leaves.
Pink and red roses decked Aitcherley for the feast-
ing. The ’moon is on the Northern Rivers.


Try This For
Rheumatic
Pains
Nothing like Harrison’s Pills for rheumatism, back-
ache, groin pains, painful urination, depleted vitality-
due to uric acid disorders, genito-urinavy and bladder
troubles, etc. No matter how many things have failed
you, Harrison’s Pills will put you right,_ for they
remove the came of the trouble. A Hospital Nurse
says: “You might he interested to know that the
success of Harrison’s Pills in treating Kidney and
Plodder Troubles, Backache, etc.j has been such that
I have recommended this remedy to scores of patients,
and I can testify definitely to their unusual efficacy
and great value for use in these painful troubles.”
If you want to get rid of your ageing aches and
pains quickly—get a package of Harrison’s Pills from
the nearest chemist to-day, 2/- Trial Size, 3/-
Standard Size, and 5/- Large Size. If not delighted
with results—money back 1
? Charm of the
PACIFIC
ISTLANDf
r#
$
IS
imkm
m
\/V
f>uTZHft£t-0
For less than the cost
of a city holiday!
EXCURSION FARES
(NO ■EXCHANGE )
SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days, Ist Class Return, £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class Return, £75
Seven-weeks’ Tour .... Cabin „ ~ £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Twenty-three Days’ Tour, Ist Class Return, £45
Via Wellington, N.Z... Cabin,, „ £34
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and
Rarotonga . . Ist Class Return, £55
Seven-weeks’ Tour . . Cabin „ „ £4O
For full particulars apply to
UNION S. S. CO., LTD.,
247 George Street, Sydney;
59 William Street, Melbourne.
and llniOn Lines
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
Mrs. Harry Creswick gave an evening
party for the delegates to the C.W.A. confer-
ence. An open fireplace in the hall of Yar-
rien flashed cheery greeting on a bleak night.
Groupings of maidenhair and foliage plants,
with masses of bronze and gold-tinted chry-
santhemums and dahlias, decked the various
rooms. Violet Somerset was heard in songs,
and Melton Ritter played some ’cello num-
bers. Mrs. Creswick’s black-lace gown was
fashioned with a cape. The Irvine lady, who
was accompanied by Mrs. R. McDonald, was
in a frock of similar material made with
long sleeves, and a pointed train dipping
from a flounced skirt. The Masson lady also
favored black lace with a touch of pale blue
about the corsage. The Mitchell lady chose
powder-blue satin and georgette, and the new
president of the C.W.A., Mrs. R. G. Beggs,
wore draperies of ruby-red chiffon. Miss
Elsa Grice was in chiffon of Parma-violet
shade, and Mrs. Archibald Currie, of Benalla,
trailed wine-colored lace. Mrs. J. S. Fraser
had a narrow black velvet belt upon her
gown of white silk fisher-net. Mrs. Pitten-
drigh wore persimmon-colored velvet. Mrs.
L. Due was wrapped about in beige-colored
chiffon. Among the visiting delegates were
Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, of Queensland, in
biscuit-colored lace; Mrs. Norman Welsh, of
Ringwood; Mrs. Cameron, of Orbost; Mrs.
Black, of Tarwin; Mrs. A. Duff, president
of the Oranbourne branch; Mrs. Douglas
Bruce, of the same locality; Mrs. W. Mani-
fold, of Mortlake; Mrs. Oswald Syme, of
Macedon, in midnight blue; Miss Fairy
McGee, als o of Macedon; Mrs. Bevan and
Miss Matches, representing Upper Beacons-
field ; and Mrs. G. A. Home, who hails from
Broadford.
In the Wool Week mannequin parades
organised by Mrs. Oswald Syme, Mrs. Wil-
liam Seymour, Jean Russell, Elizabeth
Stawell, Noel Clapp, Beverley Jackson,
Nancy Syme and Lynette Dickinson were
among the clothes-wearers. Elaine and
Betty Blogg, who are much alike in build
and height, paraded together, featuring simi-
lar garments, stepping forth first in black
bathing gowns fashioned with short tunics.
One of these garments had a long toga-like
cape of white. Beach wear was represented
by a gorgeous pyjama suit with vivid yellow
trousers, a short scarlet jacket and a som-
brero of the same shade. That wool georg-
ette or wool romaine makes very attractive
evening gowns was exemplified in a frock of
pale green, and another of nigger broWn
which had masses of cream and fawn leaves
as a belt. The wool lace gowns were effec-
tive, and a wedding dress of creamy tint
was cut in mediaeval style with a long full-
trained skirt, the color of old ivory. Some-
thing quite new was a coat which in the
distance looked like beaver fur, but was who!,
clipped and dyed, exhibiting a beautiful
sheen. James Watt, as announcer, dressed
the part in morning suit and white spats,
and showed unexpected knowledge of the fine
points of the drapery business.
The Junior Auxiliary of St. Vincent’s
Hospital celebrated its fifth birthday with a
dance at the Rex attended by 200. Mollie
Warden, the president, who wore a black
georgette frock finely tucked, baked the birth-
day cake, which was decked with five blue-
and-gold candles. Marie de Bavay, patron-
ess of the J.A., cut the cake at supper.
Cath Cooke, joint hon. sec. with Lorna Snell-
grove, was there in white georgette. Others
present were Mrs. R. R. Buxton, Dr. Aud
Whitt am, the W. Mortills, Gwen Hughes
(in deep blue flowered chiffon), Mrs. W. J.
Warden and her daughter Belle.
There was a big crowd at Moonee Valley
racecourse for the Aero Club’s pageant. The
R.A.A.F. sent a trio of Bulldog ’planes and
a couple of Wapitis, and the pilots did some
remarkable stunting. A thrill was afforded
in a parachutist descending from a ’plane
at a tremendous height and releasing a
second parachute on his way down, a trick
not seen here before. Mrs. H. Chambers,
wife of Dr. Chambers, of Toorak, won “The
Oaks” by many laps from the Tasmanian
representative, Mrs. F. Jackson, Miss F. M.
Thompson being third.
Interest in the polo tournament at Cran-
bourne centred in a tilt between teams in
which six of the eight players were of the
fair sex—only the captains were men. The
Cooronwarrabul four, captained by W. M.
Rule, won. Mrs. Nimmo, wife of Major
R. H. Nimmo, was the strongest woman
player of the winning team, which included
Helen Good and Geraldine Pennefather. The
vanquished Peninsulas were Norme and Cyn-
thia Collins and Mary Bright, whose skipper
was J. L. Byrne.
Wearing a smart gown of black relieved
with white, and a black felt hat with a dash
of emerald green, Mrs. W. M. Robins was
hostess at a luncheon party at the Went-
worth, at which she said au revoir to several
presswomen and a couple of old friends. The
meal, which was set amid dahlias and gladi-
oli, gave Mrs. Robins an opportunity of in-
troducing Mrs. Felix Lloyd, who has taken
over the duties of president of the auxiliaries
of the Queen Victoria Hospital during Mrs.
Robins’s absence.
Several guests dropped in on Mr. and
Mrs. J. K. Merritt, of Toorak, on a receut
afternoon to congratulate them on the fiftieth
anniversary of their wedding and sip a cup
of tea. Mrs. Merritt, who had the support of
her daughters, Mrs. Charlie Campbell and
Dorothy Merritt, wore a black velvet gown
with some ecru lace. A family dinner party
concluded the rejoicings.
The. C.W.A. conference, which lasted three
days and was attended by about 200 delegates,
was launched by Lieut.-Governor Irvine, who
then handed over the reins to his lady, who
took the chair. She wore a navy gown with
fox furs and a black felt hat. Some of the
younger members went around distributing
posies and floral shoulder-sprays, the reci-
pients including the Irvine and Mitchell
ladies; Mrs. H. Beggs, of Beaufort, the new
president; Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, of Queens-
land, who is liaison officer; and some other
visitors to the State. It was reported that
the organisation now boasts 118 branches,
and a membership not far short of 6000.
At the opening of the new wing of the
After-care Home by the Isaacs lady, her Ex.
was wrapped in a coat of black caracul
cloth, her hat being black velour. Mrs. G. G.
Henderson, of the District Nursing Society,
presented her with a posy. In the throng
were the Elder and Hood ladies, Mrs. James
Alston and Dr. Vera Scantlebury.
The Cocker Club’s first show brought into
the limelight spaniels of five plain all over
distinct colorings, as they say in the drapery
—black, red, lemon, golden and liver. These
colors, save black, were mingled in the roan
class, in which blue roans were a feature.
Others again blended the shades in spots,
freckles and splotches. By the way, the
puppy which figures under the name of
Flush in “The Barretts of Wimpole-street
is a blue roan cocker spaniel, and was
bred by the president of the Cocker Club,
V. Matthews. Mrs. N. A. Fraser, the secre-
tary, sent in some meritorious entries.
Thelma Halbert showed a couple of valuable
blue roans, and Mrs. Cole, of Geelong, was
a prize-winner with a white-and-fawn spotted
puppy. Mrs. Ede Clendinnen came over
from the Apple Isle with her champion gold
cocker.
A very wet autumn with a good deal of
wind and very little sun influenced the
quality of the blooms exhibited at the
National Rose Show. The Town Hall was
filled with perfume and deep red roses were
numerous. Alister Clark had a magnificent
non-competitive display, in which there were
great masses of the Sunny South and Lor-
raine Lee varieties. He had an array of
new seedlings, among them a loose sunset-
pink specimen called after Lady Ruthven. A
pale pink rose of fine perfume has been named
Doris Downes, after the wife of Colonel
Rupert Downes. The championship went
to a magnificent Dame Edith Helen grown
by S. E. Frederick, of Hampton. Blamire
Young gathered in a prize for a collection
of nine distinct varieties. Lud Mayor Smith
launched the show.
Few people stepping into the Theatre
Royal know that manager J. L. Gray is
Donald Black,
author of that
r e m a rkably
plain - spoken
war book
“Red Dust,”
now in its sec-
on d edition,
which tells of
the Palestine
campaign. Mr.
Gray served
with the Light
Horse. When
the war broke
out he had
only just mat-
riculated, and
it was with
the eyes of
youth he look-
ed upon war.
He is an ex-
student of the
Woodford Aca-
demy in the Blue Mountains, and on his re-
turn from seeing life in Palestine he took
up medicine, but gave it up after a year’s
study.
Fashion’s complete return to the past for
inspiration was exemplified in the gown worn
by Louisa, eldest daughter of the Rev. D.
M. and Mrs. Deasey, of Hawthorn, when
she was linked to Guy, elder son of the F. J.
Bakewells, of East Malvern. The bride wore
her mother’s wedding gown of deep ivory
satin with close-fitting bodice and very full-
trained skirt. A Limerick veil showered
itself over the draperies. Three ’maids wore
velvet frocks in pastel tints of pink, green
and blue respectively, with matching silk
caps and mittens of ecru lace.
Sir John Goodwin and his wife, now on
their return journey to England, spent their
few days in port here as guests of Sir John’s
relative Mrs. Robert Power. The executive
of the Victoria League entertained the Good-
wins at morning tea. The Allen lady, Mrs.
Stanley Addison and Mrs. Arthur Hordern,
with knight James Barrett, did the honors.
A bouquet was handed to Lady Goodwin
by Jean Carter. Mrs. Moore, wife of the
Premier of Queensland, Lady Anderson and
Mrs. R. Power were there by special invi-
tation. The Queensland Association said
its farewell with flowers.
It is a long time since the Auditorium
housed so well-dressed an audience as that
which listened to Benno Moiseiwitsch on
Saturday night. White fur coats and elabo-
rate brocade wraps covered lengthy gowns
of lace and chiffon and made a glad show-
ing.. An arresting gown was of white
chiffon, with wide black lace insertion head-
ing a deep flounce, and also intricately used
on the bodice. The pianist’s wife, who
wears her black hair combed off her fore-
head, was among the listeners in a red
gown topped with an ermine-collared white
coat. In the audience were Prof, and Mrs.
Ernest Scott, Elise Steele, the H. T.
Tweedles, many Taits, Harold Elvins and
Rita Hope.
“Whistling in the Dark,” which opened at
the King’s on Saturday, is not a dressy play.
The new leading lady, Maisie Swan, goes
through the three acts in an amber-colored
silk frock that is accompanied by a brown
cloth, fur-collared coat and a felt hat.
Agnes Doyle makes a fleeting appearance in
a simple little white georgette frock. Among
the first-nighters were Mrs. Geoffrey Syme
and Mrs. W. S. P. Godfrey, Mr. and Mrs.
P. Glass, Mrs. H. Emmerton and Miss Mary
Emmerton, Nellie Veitcli, Mrs. E. O. Mac-
Devitt and Mrs. Thfing.
Leslie Macpherson is spending a couple
of weeks in Melbourne prior to returning to
Paris, where she runs a tourist bureau. She
lias been visiting relatives in Queensland.
Her aunts, the Misses Turner, of Merlewood,
Toorak, put on a tea party in her honor, at
which violinist Hermia Barton and pianist
Roy Shepherd made music.
Westralia’s whack: —
The youngest State University celebrated its
coming of age with a signal flourish of trumpets.
King Sol spread his rays over the noble buildings,
where gowned and braided figures foregathered for
the official opening of Winthrop Hall by Patricia
Hackett, daughter of “the Shop’s” practical founder
and most generous endower. The rich Jar rah panelling
backing the dais showed to advantage the girl’s
trim figure, set about with black maroeain, necked
in white and topped by a neat black headjpieee,
white-quilled. Her eloquent speech, clearly delivered
and charmingly enunciated, brought forth rounds of
applause. Sister Deborah’s black silks were worn
with ivory vestee and a soft black velour hat. Miss
Northmore’s furs were draped over black mousseline,
and Chancellor Walter James’s lady showed figured
crepe de Chine under a black coat. White furs and
a rosy bouquet completed the outfit.
All roads led to the University for the Under-
grads’ Ball, some 1300 dancers wending their way
to Winthrop Hall. Illuminations were carried out
by special flood lighting, which threw the buildings
and the water-lily pond into exquisite relief. The
refectory was a riot with dahlias and zinnias, the
supper tables and every nook and ci'anny being
replete with blooms. The James lady’s posy nestled
against, jewelled black ninon over marine blue, and
daughter Mrs. Gfordon James chatted in beflared
hyacinth-blue chiffons; Mrs. Whitfield glowed in
rose and green; Mrs. Battye was regal-looking in
black lace mingled with georgette; Professor Ross’s
lady matched her hair with soft browns; Edith
Builder wore patterned lace of gold and cream;
pearls and sequins glistened on Mrs. Alan Preshaw’s
white satin; Alice Biggs wafted primrose Chantilly
lace; Mrs. Axel Poignant looked well in scarlet georg-
ettes ; Audrey Savage’s parchment nets showed a
medley of silver; Betty Smith’s lei of blush pink roses
received her black lace, and Grace Drummond’s
pastel-blue lace boasted a neckline of miniature buds.
The Autumn race meeting at headquarters saw the
R.S.L. band in snappy new uniforms, well in keep-
ing with the bright hues of the gardens and lawns
and the red brown leaves skirting the saddling
paddock. Frocks were somewhat dull, but generally
sported some touch of color. Gwen Brazier topped
a wine-silk suit with a black tricorne hat; Mrs.
Budrow’s belted navy was worn over figured vestee;
Mrs. Monteith had a large white quill shooting
from her black velour headgear; a brown scarf
clutched the throat of Jean Doutit s ensemble,
Ursula Burt’s Titian locks were caught by a reseda
green pull-on, worn with diagonal striped green
tweeds; Gwen Cadd topped a marl weave red suit
with a spike-feathered white felt; Barbara Monger
was groomed in black satin suit shot with white,
and Peg Manford’s Burgundy wool silk was spotted
with beige.
The passing of Mrs. J. T. Franklin, ex-Mayoress,
means the loss of one of Perth’s most indefatigable
workers for charity. Officially and unofficially, the
lady had occupied positions on most charitable in-
stitutions of the day, and was never too over-
taxed to respond to any call on her time.
Repertory Club realised its ambition by literally
hanging up the “House Full” sign and turning
people away from the final performance of “Baa,
Baa, Black Sheep.” The Wodehouse-lan Hay farce
went with a bang from start to finish, Tom McGregoi
produced and a cast of 15 supplied the humor.
Adelaide chips in : —•
Adelaide has been in an Angorieliina whirl.
Most energetic are the workers for the Golden
Emblem, represented by Barbara Hamilton. A
Golden Emblem ball was arranged by 11 Rundle-
street firms, each business house being responsible
for a special turn. Over 600 were present. A
guard of honor, consisting of three girls from each
finn, frocked in pastel shades and carrying baskets
of flowers, was formed on the arrival of his Ex.
Hore _ Ruthyenj who were rece i V ed by Mr.
lan Hayward. The vice-regal couple also attended
& L en by the Wholesa ie ■ Traders.
So much money came in before the festival opened
expenses are already paid. There was an
oyerflow . crowd when L;ldy H ore-Ruthven per-
formed the opening ceremony. The barnlike Exhibi-
ha/been converted into a bower of
asparagus fern and autumn foliage. The eastern
annexe wgg g . iven over to Dl , Owen Moulden and
the floral su b-committee, and this was a veritable
blaze of bloonb nia i n i y dahlias, roses and chrysan-
themums. In the western annexe, afternoon tea was
presided OVCr by Mes dames G. Braund, R. K. Wood,
and many helpers. There were a flower stall in the
hands of Mrs. Sydney Ayers, an attractive sweet
stall from where Mrs. F. Lloyd Dumas dispensed
her waves to be sold by girls dressed in wistaria
paper frocks, and a merry-go-round supervised by
Mrs. Lionel Hill.
Heavy rain rather affected the attendance at the
Amateur Turf Chib’s meeting. Mr. J. H. Monsh
(chairman) and his wife entertained with the
committee at afternoon tea. Mrs. Monsh was in a
black ling velvet ensemble with a. brown fox collar
and a gma u ljiack felt hat. Black predominated
j n j be frocking. A striking brown and fawn
blanket coat was worn by Mrs. Fred Tennant; her
toque was of brown and fawn chenille,
The gt. Peter’s College Mission Fete the same
afternoon did not suffer so much, the stalls having
been arranged in the Memorial Hall. Lady Hore-
Ruthven declared the fete open; she wore a fawn
ensemble with a brown fox fur collar. The flower
stall in front of the stage was.a picture,
The clever Adelaide composer and pianist Tom
King has just returned from Melbourne; he was
engaged on the wireless, but found time to compose
be m usic for a special ballet, “Business ft la
Russe,” that another Adelaidean, Bob Helpman, was
putting on at the King’s Theatre,
There was a good crowd at the Autumn Exhibi-'
tion of the Society of Arts. The Mayoress (Mrs. C.
R. J. Glover) performed the opening ceremony. Much
admiration was expressed for the exquisite china
painting hy Mrs. H. Tilley, a Victorian artist who
has recently made her home in Adelaide,
F. Brook Hitch, A.R.8.5., of London, who sculp-
tured the much-admired Adelaide statue of Ross
Smith, has been commissioned to execute for the
same city a bronze statue of Matthew Flinders. The
Flinders Statue Committee has lost its chairman,
knight Frank Moulden; James H. Gosse, son-in-law
of Tom Barr Smith and one of Adelaide’s leading
business men, has been appointed to the vacancy,
Fred Johns continues on deck as hon. secretary,
Raspberryland events:—
The Hobart Chamber of Commerce took the Lieut.-
Gov. and his lady with a bunch of visiting notables
and local brass-ha s, for a day’s jaunt in six motors
up to Derwent Valley while the was in port
Sir John Goodwin and his lady, Sir Alan Anderson
a*id family, Sir Keith Anderson, h,s wife and
»d ff. CVSbfSS
orebards and tobacco crops.
....... , , ,
Both ou r naval and military commandants have
'been sh " abou * the Commonwealth chess-
board. The Symonds have gone, and the Cox Taylors
are going; but there is some prospect of the genial
military commandant settling in the Speck when the
tlme comes for his retirement.
Launceston basked in the sun on the opening day
at King’s Meadows golf links. President Dr. John
Ramsay and Mrs. Ramsay did the honors to a crowd
of members and guests, the lady in a tailored suit
of seal brown with hat to tone. Sports clothes ate
more than ever intriguing this season, as one may
indulge a fancy for brilliant color effects without
going over the edge, and such showed up well the
emerald green of the links.
Marie Bjelke Petersen is in Hobart, on the look-
out for material for a new book,
Mrs. Couehman, president of the A.W.N.L. of
Victoria, has been visiting the Speck and delivering
some stimulating addresses to the branches. The
Southern Division of the A.W.N.L. lunched her at
Hadley’s on the opening day of her meetings
To raise the wind for the Returned Soldiers’
Kelief Fund, the V.A.D. committee ran a big
bridge party at the Continental. Fifty-five tables
were occupied; the list of prizes was a long one, and
the supper all that could be desired. A sub-
cheque resulted.
Rose Day appeal for the Blind, Deaf and Dumb
institution met with a good response considering
the times. Stalls were encountered everywhere, and
badge sellers were nobly persistent.


KIDNEY TROUBLE
—with all Its
Chronic Pain
and Hidden
Danger S
Kidney Trouble, Neglected,
Means Breakdown!
If you are tired-out with pain, head-
ache, back almost breaking, nerves all
“jumpy;” if you sleep badly, are cross
and irritable; if you notice bad taste in
the mouth, sallow complexion, if you
fear dreadful kidney trouble, take this
honest advice.
W.i
m
That chronic pain that makes you a misery to yourself and all around you is
Nature frantically signalling 1 the need for something to be done and done quickly.
You complain of being tired and worn-out, constant dull aching in the region of the
kidneys, and yet you keep on doing nothing. Perhaps a few more cups of dreadfully
strong tea or a few purging, digestion-weakening salts are taken. Can it be
wondered that breakdown will surely come in time ?
There is a remedy for this depressing, health-wrecking state of affairs, caused by
deep-seated kidney weakness. It is no secret, it has been known for over forty years
under the name De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. Tens of thousands of people
have tested this remedy and found it invaluable in all cases of Loss of Vitality,
Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica, Bladder Weakness and Kidney Trouble. Go to
your chemist now and secure a supply of this inexpensive yet wonderful remedy.
The 3/6 you spend will be the best investment you will ever make.
Read this Remarkable Letter
—it will help you
Here is just one of thousands of letters which show you how quickly, how surely
this remedy acts. Read it carefully—it will surely help you.
Mrs. M. Morton, writing from 27 Smith Street, Summer Hill, Sydney, says
“It gives me much pleasure to write and tell you what relief I received
after taking less than one bottle of De Witt’s Pills. I suffered untold
agonies for six months with terrible burning, bearing-down pains, caused
through kidney and bladder trouble. 1 read a good deal about De Witt’s Pills,
and had been told by people they were splendid. At last I bought a large
bottle, with wonderful results, and since then 1 feel as if I had a new lease
of life. Now I feel in perfect health, and am able to continue with my
employment, whichl certainly could not have done had it riot been for the
wonderful relief I received after taking your marvellous pills, I recommend
the n to all I. know, and will never be voithout them."
This is the evidence of not one but thousands who owe freedom from pain and a
return of health, vitality and strength to “DeWitt’s.” Many who say life has been
one long misery of pain and suffering have banished that misery for good—thanks to
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
We are convinced that, with the genuine remedy, De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills, taken regularly, your suffering will quickly end. For 40 years De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills have proved invaluable for all forms of deep-seated
Rheumatism. Sciatica, Lumbago, Uric Acid and all the pain and weakness caused
by Kidney Trouble. Because of their enormous popularity this remedy has been
imitated. For your own sake —that is if you wish to get back health quickly and
surely—see you get the genuine De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills in the white,
blue and gold box, sold by chemists everywhere, price 3/6, or larger, more
economical size, 6/6. These pills are never sold loose.
De WITT’S
Kidney
and
Bladder
PILIiS
Wedding Eve.
LOUISE MACK TELLS THE TALE OF A GIRL WHO WENT RACING
ON HER HONEYMOON.
SPAGHETTI and Wedding Eve cured us.
And lest that may be misleading, I
hasten to add that Spaghetti was a
three-year-old, and Wedding Eve a brilliant
sprinter from the stables of the dashing
Arthur Arthur, whose parents were wealthy
Methodists, and w T ho combined such a won-
derful knowledge of law, theatre-boxes and
horse-flesh that the public followed his
horse-boxes blindly and hoped for the best
from his law.
Now as some people love bridge and some
love business, and some love golf, and some
love love, so Anthony and I loved racing.
The truth was my husband and I were
punters. No wonder we remained poor. We
could not, absolutely could not, keep away
from races. Gaily we took the : race trains
to Caulfield, Flemington, Moonee Ponds. Or
went out in taxis, and came home in race
'trains. Or, very, occasionally, about once
in a blue moon, went out in race trains and
came home in taxis. This particular Satur-
day morning we knew a horse that was going
to win at Williamstown. Such a delicious
name he had, too, Aroha Nui, which, being
translated, means Great Big Love.
Out thi'ough the flat green Melbourne
suburbs our train ran gently, not roaring
and rushing as race tr-ains usually do, but
getting along towards Williamstown in quite
an ordinary way, stopping at lots of stations,
and letting slouchy youths alight, and ele-
gant young Melbourne shopgirls, also in
tailored suits, all trim and self-possessed,
carrying themselves with gusto, in marked
contrast to their men, who all walked any-
how, and dressed to match.
Of course, it wasn’t a race train at all.
And anybody but two idiots like Anthony
and myself could have seen that it wasn’t.
But we never gave the train a thought once
we knew it went to Williamstown and we
were in it.
We sat in a corner, and exchanged de-
lightful low-toned conversations about Sin,
Rapine, Battle, The Monk, Wedding Eve,
Spaghetti and all the rest of our friends.
And, as usual, going out. we discussed where
we should dine that night. And when we
had decided on our restaurant —always the
same one in the end—we arranged our menu,
“bubbly” being generously mentioned by
Anthony, while “lobster” and “caviare” fre-
quently occurred in my text. That was
going out.
❖ ❖ ❖ *
Our first shock came when we arrived at
Williamstown, and found we had come to
the wrong place. The Williamstown race-
course was at Altona, two miles away, on a
different line, and it was raining. The porter
who collected our tickets was most sym-
pathetic. So sympathetic indeed that he
punched our tickets and returned us the
X
halves without looking, while he ran about
showing us where we could get a taxi to
Altona. Off we went through the pouring rain.
As we drove, a. cold dour sadness settled
down over the flat green paddocks,- and I
could imagine how melancholy the waters of
Port Phillip would be looking just over
those sandy-colored wastes out of sight.
We reached the racecourse at last, and the
melancholy fled, and joy flashed back. Mad
people; hope; excitement; tremendous in-
terest ; noise ; speed ; haste; fury ; grass;
hoses; air; jockeys; costumes; drinks;
money; great wide open skies stretching in
their proud immense silences over the
maniac babble of the course.
Maniac indeed! We lost on every race,
steadily and persistently—lost on everything.
But there was still' the last race, and
Aroha Nui. On Aroha Nui we put our all,
such as it was, except that I took five
shillings’ worth of Spaghetti at sevens, and
five shillings’ worth of Wedding Eve at
twenties.
Spaghetti won, and Aroha Nui was no-
where, neither was Wedding Eve.
Seven to one on Spaghetti! Enough to get
us home. . •
“Let’s get a cup of tea and a hot dog,”
said Anthony. ,
And how glad we were to get them,
bubbly and lobster now well forgotten.
Then off we went, to collect on Spag-
hetti. The bookie had paid out and left
the course. We had exactly threepence
between us.
We hurried to the railway station, now
congratulating, ourselves on having return
tickets to Melbourne.
Return tickets indeed ! They were returned
to us scornfully by the porter at the bar-
rier. They were no good for this line. This
was a Melbourne-Altona train. We must buy
fresh tickets.
“We’ve got no money,” I put in here. We
didn’t look it, I must say. We were both
frightfully smart and frightfully new. In
fact, we were on our honeymoon.
“What can we do?” asked Anthony. “We
didn’t know about the trains.’’
“I can’t do nothing.” ,
“What do you advise?” -
“There’s the inspector, ask ’im.”
We rushed to the florid man in navy.. We
told our story. He looked at; us angrily;
suspicion all over him. Who were we?
Where did we come from? How did we
come to have no money? Funny way to be
going about! Oh. we had return tickets
had we? Oh, for the wrong line.
“Where are they, your tickets?”
We fished them out. And then the
Deluge! On close examination they were
the wrong halves, from Melbourne to' Wil-
liamstown!
Crooks, of course! Heavens, how black
the case was against us!
The dark, pale man, a friend of the in-
spector, who had'been listening to all this
as he stood beside the inspector, now spoke
quietly in Anthony’s ear. “I’ll lend you the
money,” he said. He put a pound into
Anthony’s hand. “I knew you were all
right when you produced the wrong halves.
You can call and pay me Monday morning.
I’m a detective.”
So the proofs of our guilt proved our inno-
cence in the eyes of people who knew what
crooks really were.
In order to bring our story to a happy
ending we went to Williamstown races next
Saturday to find our missing bookie and tell
him what we thought of him. I found that
he must have given me twenties instead of
sevens; my card when I examined it was
marked 105 shillings. In all the excitement
and agitation, I must have got mixed up
over my deals. I thought it was twenties
on Wedding Eve and sevens ,on Spaghetti.
I had never looked at the card except in
that strange blank way one looks at. things
without seeing them when excitement rides’
high within.
There was the bookie, flat-nosed, red-eyed
and a voice like ,a: saw issuing from a pallid
sand-colored face the size of a full moon.
“That’s not Spaghetti,” he said. .
“Pardon me, it is. I backed it with you
myself last Saturday; you didn’t wait to
pay out.”
i“I waited as long as I’d ought to. That's
not Spaghetti, I .tell you, lady.”
“I tell you it is.” I was furious.,
“Lady, it ain’t, I tell you.”.-He waved me
contemptuously away, and went on yelling
the odds.
This I thought'was too much, too much
altogether, considering what we had suffered
last Saturday. I turned away to " find
Anthony, and ran- straight into our pale-
dark friend, the detective.
“Oh, good day!” ..
“Good morning!”
“I’m—-I’m —can you. help me?”
“What’s the trouble now?”
“That is. the bookie who went away with-
out paying us. We told you last Saturday.”
“Yes.” ■
“He won’t pay. He says this isn’t Spag-
hetti.”
“Show me.”
I handed him the card. He examined it
carefully.
“It might be anything.”
“It’s meant for Spaghetti.”
“Which iis« he?”:,
“That, one.” * ' .A f ,
' “Russ Ruby?”
“Yes.”
A man in grey hovering near interrupted.
“Russ is trying to do me in, too. I was
coming to complain when the lady started
in.” ' ;
“What’s, your trouble?”
He told it.
“Gome along,” said the detective.
We all went up to the sandy-faced bookie,
and the detective motioned me to speak
first. .
‘‘This is Spaghetti,” I said, in a loud firm
voice. The bookie took the card, held it
upside down and inside out, dashed a baffled
look at the other men, said: “It isn’t Spag-
hetti,” and paid me my five pound five. Then
he tore up the card and threw it away as
the other man and the detective moved for-
ward.
I joined Anthony, and we went and sat in
the grandstand till the last race was over. We
did no punting at all. We had both arrived
at the tide in the affairs of men that leads
to misfortune and the shadow lay heavily
upon us of giving up punting for ever.
That night we gave it up. As I was clear-
ing out my black patent-leather handbag I
came on a ticket screwed up behind my red
lipstick, in lippy’s own little pocket. For a
long, .long- time I studied it, growing colder
and colder-with horror. What had I done?
“Spaghetti .405.”
It was my bet on Spaghetti at sevens!
I had bamboozled a bookie. I had out-
witted a detective. The card I had made that
man pay me must have been Wedding Eve.
which had lost at twenties.
It was time we stopped punting, high
tirrie; and we stopped, cured by Spaghetti
and Wedding Eve. , Completely, unpleasantly
and drastically cured; but still cured!
To an Ordinary Girl.
Think not your nets ensnare us, whom Fate
■ scourges,
You the. blind warden in life’s barren
ways . . ... ■. -■ V.
Of Beauty, burning ,on our. .vision’s verges
Where fitful stars and shadows 'weave, a
maze ' > i \ ' ;
Of moving mirrors, mocking, past- all pity.
The gay fool-errant who aspires: to dream
Because, forsooth, ’ a girl is ybung and
: pretty;
And skies have fiery lights, ; and far seas
gleam. .err.'. .
Wreck-throned witch goddess of a warlock
cavern, ,
Star idol of a wave : sunk Samarkand,
Mute bitter Sappho of some hedgesido
tavern, 11
Dark Ruth, of well, palm- and wind-
‘pillared sand,
Lost dryad, poised to flee a satyr’s shadow,
Titania, of the mosque-enchanted trees,
Sad priestess-queen of gold-hewn Eldorado,
Some strange god’s grace lias made you
one with these!
One with all Beauty, that my heart sup-
poses f
Eternal, though its shadows change and
■ wane;
The rose-veined marble mocks the dying
roses,
The meteor passes, but the stars remain;
In : you, too frail, flowed crystal that is
woman, -
The spark endures, undying and divine;
And yet your eyes are dear and very human.
Your lips are love’s, and thus I seal
them mine.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


MtSSW
r
Mas
Distributors for tbe
House of McCallum:
Goldsbrough, Mart & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane.
Gibbs, Bright & Co.,
Adelaide.
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle.
Macfarlane Bros. & Co.,
Hobart.
Bartlams, Ltd.,
T ownsville.
Northern Australian Breweries,
Ltd.,
Cairns.
There’s life in the
mellowness of
McCallum’s....
ask for it!”
flTCallurns
Scots (Ohisky
Thousands Subscribe to Australia s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 252188, GP.O., Sydney.
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME -
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/*
Overseas —l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/*
mw
;^V>
o°
e
\o
%
&
.•••' ...■•*>Vt>
.-•; ?v;5V*
• * <*
o*'


HEENZO is easily
the best remedy I have
ever used for banishing
chest and throat ailments,
■
Writes Mr. RAYMOND ELLIS, the
eminent English Operatic Baritone.
COSTS 2/-, SAVES £’s
Here’s a recipe, given by a leading chemist, that will enable people
to make the best family cough remedy, and at the same time save much
money. Everybody knows that a good cough and influenza remedy
consists of two main sections:—
The first section is the undiluted medicinal ingredients; and the
second is, of course, the necessary water and sweetening. The
preparation of the medicinal ingredients requires trained knowledge, but
the water and sweetening can be added in the home just as easily as in
the pharmacy. And you save a lot of money by doing so. Now, prove
these facts by trying this HEENZO recipe: Into a jug put; four
tablespoonfuls of sugar, three of either treacle or honey, two of vinegar,
and a large breakfastcupful of warm water. Stir till dissolved, and when
the syrup is quite cold pour into a large bottle, and then add a
two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO, obtained from your
chemist or store. By doing this you will have a family supply equal in
quantity and superior in quality to eight ordinary-sized bottles of the best
ready-mixed cough remedy that, if purchased in the usual way, would
cost up to £l. An outstanding feature HEENZO is the fact that
it is a safe remedy for babies as well as adults, and over 12,000 people
have written letters proclaiming it the best remedy they have ever used
for quickly banishing coughs, colds, croup, bronchitis and influenza.
REMEMBER! Money cannot
buy a better remedy than
$
k
for quickly soothing sore throats, easing the chest and banishing
COUGHS, COLDS
CROUP, BRONCHITIS & INFLUENZA
When your Doctor orders a Tonic —take the best
HE AN’S TONIC NER VE NUTS
A few bottles at 3 /- are a wonderful investment for those
seeking good health. All Chemists and Stores.
