

J3IDS
HE New Dunlop is “SAFER” —inside and out.
JL There is positive grip on wet paved roads because
of its deeper non-skid tread. In mud or soft-going—
the Chevron Shoulders and Buttressed Walls give
extra side-wall traction. Inside the exclusive
Dunlop High Tensile Cord adds 100% to the strength
and life of the casing.... In addition, the New Dunlop
tread is “SILENT RUNNlNG”—safely holding the
road without a whisper. . . . Buy Dunlop Gold Seal
Tyres from your local dealer —they cost no more
than ordinary tyres.
DUNLOP
*tQ
187.MP2
A S BRITISH AS THE EMPIRE
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN TYRE
The Bulletin
on, P. 3%.
Vol. 53.—N0. 2755.
Wednesday, November 30, 1932.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


GIVE BOOKS FOR XMAS.
for our 72-page Xmas Catalogue.
Sent, post free, anywhere.
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
Learn _ ».
Maiice Journal^
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
• ••• SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,’
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
aS t 6 send > . w . xth °M obligation, your New Free
tfooklet, explaining how to Write tor p™** ree
advertised in the Sydney fl ‘ 03
My Name
Mu Address
S,B. 132 ‘
JLYSAGHT7
o
3
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
f
’"S'.
Your Boy Should Use
Cntienra Soap
Regularly
It Keeps Skin and Hair Healthy
Price Is.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE ”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
'Vou do not leave it to chance in choosing a
newspaper for your advertising campaigns. You
require evidence of its stability and inquire
fully into its claims for preference before
entrusting it, with your sales message.
No discriminate buyer of newspaper space can
afford to overlook
“THE AGE”
when contemplating future allocations for
Victoria.
Make your first preference “THE AGE,” and
you will be convinced that in choosing this
medium to broadcast your sales message
throughout the State your choice has been
fully justified.
“The Age” CIRCULATES in the
homes and offices of 115,000 sub-
scribers daily, and publishes over ONE
MILLION Advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office. 43 Hunter Street.
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test “THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
AH must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit' to sell
Cbe Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W
Phone: 85241.
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM IQ WOMfm
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE
2 HUNTER STREET.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
35 SALESMEN
UNANIMOUS.
A few weeks ago a large
insurance company (The
Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Coy.)
had an important mes-
sage for Queensland
people. How should they
make it known ? Which
newspaper offered the
widest coverage ? They
asked their salesmen and
collectors: “Which news-
papers do you find most
frequently in the
homes you visit ?” The
reply was unanimous—
The
Brisbane
Courier,
Member Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
Representative:—
Robt. D. Fisher—Bsoo7,
74 Pitt. St., Sydney.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, It
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking Hoys*
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Offi'ce: “Argus” Building. Elizabeth
Street.
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Armchair Travelling
There have been few Australians with a
greater passion for the sea than Norman
Lindsay and the late Ernest O Terr all
( Kodak”). Yet Lindsay has lived many
miles from the sea for over a quarter of
century, and “Kodak” claimed to be one
of the exclusive little band of Sydneyites
who have been ill on a Manly ferry-boat.
Nearly all their flights to foreign lands were
flights of the imagination. A yarn with
some old sailor-bagman who had called for
a feed supplied Lindsay with inspiration
while he built one of the model ships for
which he is famous abroad as well as in
Australia; and Conrad enabled “Kodak” to
see the tropic islands on which he installed
his bishops and other comic characters. The
travel-books that pour from the printing-
presses year by year are written chiefly
for such dreamers. Here are four which are
good enough in their differing ways to pro-
vide even the unimaginative with some of
the pleasures of imagination.
Lite Story of a Yacht
I/rn^ e ft° n Martyr’s The Southseaman
(Blackwood; 3s. 6d.) is primarily for yachts-
men, but it has an appeal to all who can
think of ships as the great writers of fairy
tales were able to think of inanimate things
like tin soldiers and paper boats—as senti-
ent beings with thoughts and emotions of
their own. The author and a friend were
employed in a New York bank when they
conceived the idea of putting their savings
into the construction of a £1200 schooner.
The idea was to build the schooner abroad,
sail her to the U.S.A., where yachts that
arrive on their own bottoms escape the
tariff, and resell at a profit. At the time
the boom hadn’t burst, and there were
plenty of buyers for yachts, and no sellers.
A Nova Scotian builder got the order.
ii* want you to build a boat 45ft. over
all, 35ft. on the water-line with lift 9in
beam. Depth in the hold is not quite 7ft.,
and the draft is about 6ft. Oak for the keel
frames, beams and topsides, with the best
elm you can get for the garboards and bottom
planking.”
They sailed this craft to New York, not
as they had intended, by way of the Ber-
mudas, but along the western fringe of the
Sargasso Sea, a trip of nearly 3000 miles A
bootlegger gave them £3000 for her, and she
was captured eventually and flung aside
in Newark Bay. They went to see her.
Oily waste and tarry rope make a good
foundation for a fire of splintered shelves
and bulkheads, and half a can of kerosene
poured over all ensures a fierce and lasting
blaze. 1 or a period in silence and compas-
sion we ministered to the tortured body of
our ship, and it was black night before our
pious work was done. Then we bid her
farewell and left her, but not to suffer and
decay in that cruel graveyard of tormented
ships.
It is doubtful if the American revenue
authorities would accept this as a valid
excuse for an act of deliberate incendiarism,
but all true shiplovers will understand.
Mostly About Australia
Windward Ho, by A. W. Pearse (John
Andrew, Sydney; 55.), consists of the remi-
niscences of a veteran mariner who was an
apprentice aboard the Cardigan Castle 60
years ago. He can remember when A.B.’s
signed on at £2 10s. a month, and had salt
beef and pork on alternate days, and
precious little else. His book has many
photographs of famous ships, and there
lis an indefinable sea-tang over it, but in
point of fact A. W. Pearse came ashore 40-
odd years ago, and has never been on the
blue water since, except as a tourist. He was
?oni Vl (f^i.° ran^es on Mountains in
• r w hen a revolution called a 'strike’ was
in full force in Queensland.” Some pastoral-
lsts decided that the time had come for
them to own a paper, and he was engaged
to organise “The Pastoral Review.” He
was editor till 1915, when he handed over
r S e^ son an d went to Egypt as
Chief Commissioner of the Australian Com-
forts Fund. Since 1923 he has been Aus-
tralasian representative of the Port of
London Authority. His busy and varied
hie has taken him to most parts of the
world, and he gossips about what he has
seen with the gusto of a lover of life and his
fellow-men, and the ease of a practised
writer. Interesting to readers of any
nationality, and particularly so to Austra-
lians and Maorilanders.
A Troubled Land
Dalmatia, by Oona. Ball (Faber; 12s. 6d.),
contains the only worthwhile account that
has been done in
English this gen-
eration of one of
the most fascinat-
ing little countries
in Europe. Shak-
speare knew it as
Illyria—it was founded, according to legend,
by Illyrius, son of Cyclops and Galatea. The
Argonauts are supposed to have visited it.
The Galli Senones indisputably settled
there, and the Greeks held it till 168 b.c..
when it became Roman. After being vari-
ously a republic, a French dependency and,
after the fall of Napoleon, an Austrian
province, Dalmatia is now part of the king-
dom of the Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. Mrs.
Ball begins with Ragusa-Dubro, and digresses
to tell the story of Saint Blaise, the patron
saint of woolcombers (Diocletian threw the
holy man to the lions, who fraternised with
him, and a tribute is paid in Bradford every
seven years to his heavenly activities in
the interests of the wool trade); she in-
spects Zara with its many Roman remains;
and the city of Sibenik, which became
Venetian in the fifteenth century, was taken
subsequently by the Hungarians, Turks and
French, and is now Yugo-Slavian and torn
by Latin-Slav dissensions; and she visits
the famous Islands. In a chapter towards
the end she tries to put her finger on the
charm of Dalmatia. It is strangely beauti-
ful, and its historical interest is great, but
the most subtle of its attractions, she sug-
gests, is that it is “so very near the heart
of things.”
We are so much nearer the cradle of
Christendom than w*c were in England.
Down this coast came the crusaders on
their long journey to the Holy Land.
Dalmatia has an interest which she doesn’t
mention. It is an outstanding example of
a country that has been martyred repeatedly
down the centuries because it was sparsely
populated and inadequately defended.
India Again
ka<i y Lowther’s Land of the Gold Mohur
(Philip Allan; 12s. 6d.) describes a tour
she made of India while Lord Reading was
Viceroy. She visited the usual places—
Bombay, Udaipur, Delhi, Calcutta, Benares
and the rest—and s*he has nothing new to
say about them or their beauties. Her
book is interesting chiefly on the social
side. She knows everbody, as the saying
goes, and her trip consisted largely in
moving from one Government House or
native prince’s guest-house to another. A
similar work about, say, Australia might be
worthless, but, in spite of Gandhi and his
followers, India is still ruled directly or
indirectly by British officials. This makes
any inside story of their mentalities and
methods valuable to students of the
Empire’s most awkward problem. Lady
Lowther has a gift for describing people
m a few lines. Take this thumbnail sketch
of Lord Reading:—
. -® s head lias a lack of height unusual
in one of such great mental capacity; but
ins shrewd glance, his sensitive mouth, his
eaglelike features and intellectual refinement
ot mien arrest one immediately.
Most of her portraits are as neat as that.
j IS , a . conser vative and an authoritarian,
and obviously considers that the natives,
barring the princes (“What great gentle-
men the native princes are!”) should be
kept firmly in their places. Anyone who
has met the type will know what to expect
as regards political thought.
RED PAGE.
Odysseus Up to Date
John Masefield’s A Tale of Troy (Heine-
mann; 5s ) tells the story of the rape of
Helen and its consequences in an English
voice. Gone are the epic tones of ancient
Greece; Klytaimnestra, the spearman in her
husband s army and the others are moderns
and they express themselves accordingly
Some of the passages are almost as bathetic
as that other Laureate’s imperishable lines
about the dying royalty in South Africa
Owr the electric wire the message came:
He is no better, he is much the same.”
Palis, for example, undertakes to carry
Helen ©ff “at noonday.”
So it was planned, so it was done,
i aris and she were there at one.
Klytaimnestra is just one of the unheroic,
sentimental mothers who during the last
great war sang indignantly that they didn’t
laise their boys to be soldiers.
We women and little children and aged men
Were .left behind to the work the fighters left
To raise the food and wine that the lighters wasted
To forge the weapons to kill some woman’s dear one.’
“Such was the ‘righteous war’ that my hus-
band preached of,” she declaims as scorn-
fully as any pacifist of 15 years ago. Odysseus
and his comrades wish one another luck
before clambering into the Horse, like mem-
bers ot a raiding-party at zero hour. “We
(.Red Page continued on page 5.)


‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —Our Assurance of Accuracy.
"THE SENIOR STORE
Practical GIFT Suggestions
for MENFOLK
At Anthony Horderns’ there are Christinas gifts galore in the shape of
silken shirts and socks to satisfy the most exacting.... handkerchiefs that
are useful gifts and ties that men appreciate. These and other tempting
toggery are to be found in the Mercery section at prices to suit every purse. |
Men’s Genuine
Panama Hats
Men’s Panamas, 17/6, 22/6, 32/6
Panama Hats, for coolness and comfort, bid fair
to become the most popular headgear for
summer wear. Best finish. Available in Alpine
shape.
Anthony Horderns’
Prices, each 17/6, 22/6 and 32/6
Imitation Panamas, at 10/6 each
Imitation Panama Hats, blocked and finished like
the genuine Alpine shape. Available in Cream
or White, with Black band.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 10/6
Men’s Pan Dans, 3/3, 3/11,5/6 ea.
Men’s Fine-quality Pan Dan Hats, strong and
serviceable, for farm and gardening work. With
Brown or Fancy bands. Good value!
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, each, 3/3, 3/11, 5/6
S 3
Men’s Silk Tennis Shirts, 15/6
A most acceptable gift would be one of these
Double Double Kanedo Silk Shirts. Made to
Anthony Horderns’ standard of excellence.
Price, each 15/6
Natural Fuji Sports Shirts. Prices, 13/6 & 15/6
Crepone Art. silk Sports Shirts. Blue, White
or Cream. Price, each 13/6
Striped Fuji Silk Golf Shirts. Price, each 15/6
Striped Spun Silk Crepe Golf Shirts. Price, 18/6
“Hordura” Golf Shirts, at 11/6 ea.
“Hordura” Golf Shirts. Made from Durax
Poplin de Luxe. Finished double cuffs, V-cased
fronts and two smart collars t'o match. Newest
striped effects.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each* 11/6
Or 3 for 33/-
Suspender Sets
in Fancy Boxes
Brace and Garter Sets, from
4/6 per set
Suspender Set's, in fancy boxes, for presen-
tation. Set comprises Elastic Braces and
Garters. Anthony Horderns’ Prices,
set 4/6, 4/11, 5/9, 8/6
Brace, Garter and Armband
Sets, 7/6 and 12/6
Men’s Elastic Braces, Garters and Arm-
bands, packed in fancy presentation box.
Anthony Horderns’ Prices, set, 7/6, 12/6
Elastic Braces, 2/9 and 3/6 pr.
Men’s Elastic Braces, in fancy box. A
practical Christmas gift, moderately
priced. Anthony Horderns’ Prices,
pair 2/9 and 3/6
Elastic Garters, at only
2/3, 2/9, 3/6 and 4/6 pair
Men’s Elastic Garters, in fancy box. This
item will help you fill a gift list.
Anthony Horderns’
Prices, pair .. 2/3, 2/9, 3/6 and 4/6
mm
M
m
Men’s Handkerchiefs, All
White, Three for 1/11
Men’s Handkerchiefs. All white. They
comprise useful and economical gifts. In
attractive fancy boxes. Irish Lawn. Three
in box. Prices 1/11 and 2/3
Irish Lawn. Six in box.
Prices 3/6, 4/6 and 5/9
Irish Linen. Three in box. Price . . 4/6
Irish Linen. Six in box.
Prices . . 8/6, 10/6, 11/3 and 12/10.
With Colored Borders, at
Three for 1/11
Colored Border Handkerchiefs, in fancy
boxes. Irish Lawn. Three in box.
Price 1/11
Cairo assorted. Six in box. Price . . 4/6
Sphinx assorted. Six in box. Price, 5/9
Pyramid assorted. Six in box. Price, 7/3
White Initial Handkerchiefs. Irish Lawn,
with any letter embroidered in corner.
Price l/“
Also in Pyramid, letter in corner.
Price 1/6
Leather Belts
Men’s Suede Leather Belts, at
2/6 and 4/11
Men’s Suede Leather Belts, in fancy box.
Finished patent enamel buckles. One inch
belt.
Anthony Horderns’
Prices, each 2/6 and 4/11
Suede Leather Belts, at 2/11
Men’s Suede Leather Belts, in fancy box.
Silver-plated buckle; 1 belt.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each . . 2/11
Expanding Armlets, 3/6 pair
“Elita” Expanding Armlet's. The
available. Packed in attractive box.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair . .
best
3/6
Men’s Pyjamas
from 10/6 pr.
Pyjamas are always acceptable, .and if pur-
chased from Anthony Horderns’ you can rely
upon the wear being satisfactory and the value
excellent. Men’s striped Poplin de Luxe
Pyjamas. Prices .... 10/6, 13/6 and 15/6
Striped Cepea Serge. Price . 11/6
Shadow Striped Mercerised. Price 14/6
Striped British Twill. Price 13/6
Striped Tobralco. Price 15/6
Striped Fuji Silk. Price 21/-
Men’s Motor Gauntlets
19/6 pair
Men’s Motor Gauntlet Gloves. Made in soft-
finish Calf. Unlined. In either Tan or Black.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair 19/6
M S'
111 T
Men’s Art. Silk Dressing
Gowns from 29/6
Men’s Art.-silk Dressing Gowns. A range of
silken weaves in colorful scrolls and Paisley
designs.
Anthony Horderns’
Prices, each 29/6, 35/-, 45/- and 75/-
(Men’s Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all seaports
in the Commonwealth and railway stations in N.S.W.)
Anthony Horderns'
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
SYDNEY
'Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.


::::::
«B«ta
::::::::: i;::i
3: Hi .
“ate % 1 •*%.
•giiiiiig
:r?H:
Sllli
m
liiliir
:SHt
rffiftlHlH
m
m
?Hhi!
m
•yjmHT;
EWftWHn:
7/
X
ACTUAL PHOTO-MICROGRAPH OF NERVE CELLS, MAGNIFIED 300 TIMES
’ —“like giving me
a little bit of heaven”
Such letters are written by people
who have felt the wonderful
effects of Sanatogen on their own
health. Your nerves may not be
in such a bad state —but that is
all the more reason to be confident
that Sanatogen will give you back
strength and health and vitality.
Why not start taking Sanatogen
to-day? It must do you good
and because it is a nerve-food, it
cannot possibly do you any harm.
SANATOGEN
The True Tonic-Food
Obtainable at all Chemists.
When you feel off-colour or suffer from sleep-
lessness, weakness, irritability, a tired feeling or any
s of those common symptoms of weak nerves, why
not give Sanatogen a trial ?
So many people have found that their decision —
U I will try Sanatogen ' —has been the turning point
in their health.
At first many of them doubted the value of
Sanatoger. They had suffered for so many years
and had tried so many medicines and tonics in vain.
But the facts convinced them that Sanatogen really
does what it promises to do: it gives new energy,
new vitality, and a feeling of youthful health.
Just read this letter from a Sanatogen user:
“ I should have written before now,
hut I have been enjoying the new
life Sanatogen has given. I am 31
years old and I feel like 21 years, so
that alone will tell you what Sanatogen
has done for me. I have suffered seven
years from neurasthenia and often
have I felt like going mad. I had it so
bad I thought I would never get better.
I tried everything, until one day a
friend recommended Sanatogen. It
was like giving me a little bit of
heaven. I felt so different, full of life
and energy already after taking a few
doses. I should like the world to know
what Sanatogen has done for me.”
»
Mrs* L. Me. I.
Made by
GENATOSAN LTD., LOUGHBOROUGH, ENGLAND.


ENGLAND AUSTRALIA
sStsili
m
u
m
a
§§§§
::
MNMM
.;.■ .■/■■■■
. a «
MB
m
1 n
6
m
mm
iitii
■m jMMM
■MB I
..:amm%mmm^m!mmmm
ill
',,,
>s; t ;:.
. .- <
Hi
in your own home
- c.
>3
IS
I
MAGINE a Test match taking place in
your own lounge-room!
The flower of English cricket matched
against the dashing Aussies —the thrills —
the excitement of big cricket flawlessly re-
produced in your own home by means of
Healing Golden Voiced Radio.
INVITE
GOLDEN VOICED RADIO
TO YOUR HOME
A. G. HEALING, LTD.
SYDNEY:
164-170
Goulburn St.
MELBOURNE:
167-173
Franklin St.
ADELAIDE:
Cnr. Pirie and
Pulteney Sts.
Cut out this Advertisement and return it to your nearest Healing Dealer for a Free Home Demonstration.
five shook hands,” says Sthenelaus m his
description of the fateful moment. They
familiarise themselves with the terrain
From study
Of a model of (he city walls and ways
Wrought by Odysseus out of river clay.
Before the surprise attack on 1 roy,
We supped and slept till somewhere after midnight.
Then roused and tied bleached linen on our arms.
The poet even introduces a character who
Was well known on all the home-service
fronts throughout the World War: —
And Nestor wished thut he were young’ again?
His usual wish, at more than usual length.
The story is absorbing, but then, as one
of literature’s greatest stories, it can
hardly help being that. As a poem it can t
be termed a success. The essential function
of poetry is to bring beauty before the
eye of the mind in inspired phrases. There
is a great deal of pedestrian writing in the
Laureate’s latest work, and few passages
that mightn’t have been done by a writer
without any of his claims to fame.
J.D.
Sail-carrying in Fiction—and Fact
It is hard, as a rule, to fault one of
C. H. Souter’s sea poems, but “Red Jacket,”
in a recent Bulletin, contains the line “No
sail was clewed up.” That can mean
one of two things: either they had the
most extraordinarily favorable weather right
across the Western Ocean, or the master was
a fit case for the reception-house. Races
were never won in that way, but it was a
sure way to lose ships. Moreover, even in
the days when freights were freights, canvas
was expensive stuff, and the Old Man didn’t
have to let very many sails go west before
he had written off the profit on the voyage
—and was certain to get a good rattling
down from the owners about it, if he
wasn’t sacked outright.
There is a limit to the amount of canvas
which a windjammer can carry in a stiff
breeze; leaving too much on her merely
makes her bury herself and steer as wildly
as an unbroken colt. The result is she
logs less instead of more. The men who
made records —and profits for their owners—
were of the type of old Woodget, of Cutty
Sark fame. They had nerves of iron,
coupled with that “weather sense” which
tells a sailor just when the royals should
come in, or reefs be taken in the tops’ls.
Equally important, they knew just when it
was safe to shake those reefs out again,
or loose the royals once more. The man
who hung on to the kites until tacks and
sheets began to part, or sails split and
began to slat to pieces, did no good to any-
one except the canvas-maker. He strained
ship and gear to blazes, besides rfiaking the
voyage a hell to the hands. Further, if he
was running into a big blow, he took a
terrible risk, for you never know just
where the first squalls are coming from
until the wind hits you. Should she be
taken by the lee while still under full sail
the sails go all aback, the vessel gathers
sternway—and that usually means that she
is soon a dismasted hulk, or that still an-
other packet is posted missing at Lloyd’s.
The dismasted Finnish barque Hougoumont
lay at the Semaphore anchorage outside of
Port Adelaide for some time recently as
an object lesson in what happens when a
squall takes a windjammer by the lee.
Of course, there were sail-carrying maniacs
in the bad old 4ay,s, but they never lasted
long. “Hell or Melbourne” Bully Forbes
was one, and he came to a typically inglori-
ous end, with the record which he fluked
forgotten. I served under one of the right
type myself—Davis, of the Natal Queen, a
former tea clipper who ended her days in
the Tasmanian : timber trade. As her
ihaster, Davis was out to make fast pas-
sages; as her owner also, he was out to
make sails last to the limit. He achieved
both ends without earning the curses of
the seamen, and that is perhaps the greatest
recommendation of the lot.
To sum it all up, there is a limit to
“cracking on,” as to everything' else in this
world, and only lunatics try to exceed it.
The day of sail is in its twilight; the
coming generation will know nothing of the
square rig except upon the printed page.
It is up to those who are writing of the
sailing vessel to stick to facts from this
day onward, for enough tripe has been
written on the subject to last for all time.
CARRICK, A.B.
A Satchel of Books
The Cull of the Southern Cross, by A.
S. Wadia, M.A. (Dent; 65.). An account
of the travels of the author (who was
formerly on the staff of a Bombay college)
through Australia and M.L. He has no-
thing new to say of the places visited, hut
he says the old things agreeably. He met
W. M. Hughes and “was surprised by the
bitterness of tone in which he spoke of
England and of the way she dealt with
Australia.” He claims to be a good Empire
man, but stresses over and over again the
wrongs suffered by India at the hands of
English Officials (lie is strong on capitals)
and the insufferable hauteur of these func-
tionaries. In fact, his book is a good deal
more valuable for the light it throws on
the mentality of an educated Indian than
it is as a travel-work.
Storm Bradley — Australian, by Fred Davi-
son (father, by the way, of the author of
“Man-Shy”), is another Digger story, and a
good one. It is from the Australian Authors’
Publishing Cos., Sydney, and the price isn’t
stated. Storm isn’t as young as, he might
be when lie enlists in the A.1.F., and there
is a disposition to keep him at orderly-room
work in a training camp, or, worse, attach
him permanently to Intelligence. So he kicks
and eventually wangles his way to a platoon
in France, lie does well, becomes a ser-
geant, finds himself with a whole skin when
the Armistice arrives, and returns to Aus-
tralia in ’19. But he goes on campaigning
according to his lights as a civilian —for a
reformed banking system, for cleaner politics,
for unification of railway gauges, and so on.
He is in a position to voice his ideals, having
made a success of a political weekly. The
book is largely propagandist, but, unlike most
propagandist novels, it is easy reading.
The Lady of the Manor, by Archibald
Marshall (Collins; 7s. 6d.), is supposed to
be post-war, but its characters smack more
of Jane Austen’s day.
There was nobody to introduce Miss Firmit.y into
the circles [county] which she felt she would have
so well adorned, and she had to be content with the
smaller fry. She had hoped to get her foot in,
but she had been at Honey Lane Cottage now for
fourteen years, and had not done so yet; and this
had somewhat embittered her.
You see, absolutely no deceit between author
and readers, ladies and gentlemen! There’s
no smart talk. Everybody says the obvious
thing, but in the context the saying of it is
extremely funny. The characterisation,
which is shrewd and satirical, is a feature of
the book.
Pan's Clan, by Jim McCarter (Deaton
and Spencer, Sydney; 6s.) v begins aboard
the Samuel Evans in the 70’s of last
century. Robert Cane, Irish apd 18, arrives
in Melbourne, does well on the land and
begets William. Arrived ' at man’s estate
William hears lie is illegitimate, and asks
his father over the telephone to deny the
hideous story.
“He told the truth, Bill!”
Now, God, what further tests of truthfulness do
you want of this man ?
“He told the”
The brain-shattering words battered against Bill’s
ear-drums, seemingly trying to hammer madness into
his thoughts. Christ Almighty ! Was he mad —was
he a stark, raving lunatic in imagining that he had
heard such words?
The yarn is pitched in that high emo-
tional key all through—the characters have
a somewhat un-Australian capacity for
explosive indignation, grief, and the like
but it is well-constructed, the dialogue rings
true where the author keeps clear of melo-
drama, and there are some vivid pictures
of out-back life. Particularly in the second
part where Bill goes droving in Central
Queensland under a changed name to hide
his shame. It turns out in the end that he
had no real cause to worry, and he is able
to marry the right girl. The story eught to
make a first-class Australian film.
In Famous Secret Societies, by John
Heron Lepper (Sampson Low; Robertson
and Mullens; Bs. 6d.), the development ot
secret societies is traced from their primi-
tive origins through the Egyptian mysteries,
the mysteries of Eleusis, the Templars and
the Assassins, up to the Mafia, the W hite-
boys of Ireland, the Orange Society and tlie
Ku Klux Klan. Most of them had then-
genesis in political and economic conditions,
and all developed the same amazing rites,
with their mixture of buffoonery and realism.
The Chinese societies were typical. I lien
members were made invulnerable by charms
and incantations. They were collared bJ
astute gentlemen who turned them to com-
mercial or political uses. They caused the
Chinese Revolution, just as the * usl
societies caused the Irish Revolution. A
Governments have alternately persecuted and
employed secret societies. The book would
have gained in interest if the author had
traced the present Nazis, bteel Helmets
and whatnot in Germany back to. the innu-
merable criminal and religious societies that
have bothered European monarclis tor cen-
turies.
And a Little Verse
DAWN ON THE HARBOR.
Leading his caravans of beaded light.
On feet as quiet as tigers, pads the JNignt.
Night is a robber negro. Fantasies
Swarm at liis heels, like clustered silver bees.
And woven deep within his knotted hair,
Tawny as foxes smouldering in their lair,
A filigree of tasselled stars is strung.
And round his ebon-pillared throat are hung
'Those white barbaric pearls the Southern
Cross. _
Reft from the wrists of what Celestial Joss.
Crooning a jungle-dark heat-cradled croon,
From out the bending sky lie brings the moon
In whimpering silver to his massive knees,
In clashing jade he twines the pliant seas
Taut round his ankles, and his fingers strum
A slow, inducive pulsing from his drum
That wakes a coiled green orchid in the
heart
Of every man who huddles in bleep s mart.
Scourged from the sky by lancers helmed i a
He gains the drugged towers of his robber-
hold,
But hot-pursued lie flings his treasuries
Into the deep cup of the Sydney seas,
And hissing on the ocean’s green-grey Blunder
There falls the burning torch of jewelled
plunder,
Fish-glinting, too, down wine-dark deeps
there swam
The whirling. splendor of his oriflamme !
N.S.W,
ADRIAN SUMMERS.
Answers to Correspondents.
A r o notice, (except of a hostile character) will he taken
of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability
is undertaken re contributions voluntarily sub-
mitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
E.H.C. : Hope to print the winning songs
and some others on December It and 21 . . . .Les V.:
Far beyond present length-limit; good stuff in it,
though... .J.W.R.: On the borderline; but just
lacked the strength to get over... .M.IJ.: That
number is full; and it’s too long for any other. But
it’s very well told. .. . W.M.F.: Strikes us as over-
done.,..lLL. (N.Q.): But tell us exactly what it is
you think should be done and how it should be done.
. ...L.J.P.: Spend 12 months tearing up; then try
us again... .Mavis D.: Your chariot is out of the
race... .H.H.G.: Nothing - new to say and no new
way to say it. .. .Toomah: And you ask us to print
it on yo]ir say-so. We’d hate to spend Christmas
away from home..,. E.M.: It has a simple beauty,
but needs more cai'eful carpentering. It would go
more smoothly with a regular rhyming scheme....
J. 1.: “Gravekeepet” is the better ; but that sod ha
been turned over and over.. . .P. da A.: You can’t con-
vince us it's poetry. .. .A. do R.: Not yet; but maybe
later.... Mary D.: Take more care, and your garden
may grow a flower worth wearing... .Y.S.: Crashes
in the second verse... .H.J.P.: Some merit; but that
type of stuff is not in demand. .. .T.F.: Sententious.
. ...D.A.S.: “An Old Song Resung”—and sad discord
you make of it.... Hart: Some sense in it, but no
swing... .S.E.A.: Sterile... .C. 8.: A jumble of stock
phrases and hackneyed images. .. .J.P.: There’s only
one place for that. .. .A.H.: That was a heartless
girl, but you fail to make tuneful copy of your
jilting... .C.XJi.; “The Road” makes hard travelling.
How do you know “The Sugar Gum” ever appeared?
....The Ruddy Axeman: Best drop the pen and take
a fresh grip of the Kelly... .T.M.: Feeble to worth-
lessness. . .J.8.R.: If the ensilage is no better than
the verse we doubt if the cows will rush it....
D.lv.G.: It has some resonant lines; the trouble is
that we can’t grasp what it’s about. .. .Blackboy:
It’s like chewing a piece of very tough steak....
G.G.: Ripples along pleasantly, but it’s not Bum.e-
tin fare.... Akopi: If you must use Latin words,
find out how to pronounce them. Mores is a dis-
syllable. .. .F.S.: Below the mark... .H.L.W.: A
passable verse exercise, nothing more. .. .Bullocky
Joe: You can’t drive those beasts up Parnassus....
Lilian: Even a temperance lodge would want a bit
more kick in it than that. . . .C.J.S.: So slender
it could hang on a gossamer without stretching a
thread of it... .G.T.D.: Commonplaces in undistin-
guished verse. .. .W.A.M.: The learning overloads it.
. ...J.M.H.: Merely an exercise in rhyming; and
you’re rather lazy even about lho rhyming....
L. : “Nathless” and “meseems” —no, no ; not
in 1932 Sadie M.: A rough job E.V.B. : Try
reading it aloud, and see how it jars. But there’s
a picture there A.D.: Don’t reprint even from
Esperanto R.W.P.: The year’s most joyous -hymn
on Childhood: —
In fragile flesh a fiend may lurk
Who bides his hour in peace,
And silent works until the man’s
A wolf beneath the fleece.
.. . .D.L.E.S.: “Sunrise” has gone west. The ear
that can rhyme “bygone” with “dawn” at 7 o’clock
and “dawn” with “born” at 7.1.5 needs tuning.
... ,W. Macd.: Your youth pleads for y0u.... Rosa-
lind M.: Only pretty g00d.....M. Kaye: Frankly, it
isn’t. Read; and then resolve not to sing the
obvious H.E.Y.: Don’t like the form.... James
M. : Candiedly, we’d say try again; but, candidly,
we don’t see much promise. .. .Alan W.: The craft
is good enough; but we stopi at that.... Fanuela
(Q.): An oft-told tale; and it rarely rings true.
.. . .M.P.: Over-much moralising. . . .Belar B.: Quite
true. Approximately 70 cols, in an ordinary issue,
even, in these attenuated days, apart from drawings;
and a col. averages over 1100 words. The ordinary
full-size novel has 80,000 words Cicely L.:
Nearly M.C.: Off the track. Watch the form of
what you read.... Solus H.: If we have to crowd
the leader out we’ll get two verses in: —
Dearest, on this paper tears with ink have fought,
For we’re parted by the ruling of the Arbitration
Court.
And to tell you we can’t marry, these dismal lines
I pen
Since the confounded basic wage isn’t fit for
married men.
So fare thee well, my dearest, all hopes and schemes
are fled.
I must fry my own steak, patch my pants and
make my bed.
And if your lawyer thinks a case for breach can
be fought,
Ask him can you sue the Judges of the Arbitration
Court.
Charles S.: Short of everything except rhymes.
H.J.C*.: Too doleful to be pathetic. The title
helps to rob it of the element of suspense. .. .
Donvab: Weak singing of an old, old theme
J.R.0’8.: Sorry, but the matter is hopeless. The
experienced hand could turn out that sort of thing
by the fathom Largo: To make the rhyme you
too often sacrifice the sense... .J.S.: An avalanche
cf words... .Taringa: Can’t get the point of it....
Merrick W.: All that glisters is not gold, and less
that rhymes is poetry. .. .L.A.S.: Poetic idea in an
unfinished shroud... .Enrian: Y’ou ought to do better
with it than that Jenifer W.: What a publicity
agent you would make! Solomon himself couldn’t
b e more lyric. .. .P.G.8.: An old idea, and the dress
is not effective. .. .Mary H.: All tangled. . . .A. de
R.: No market here. But we went back to “The
Palm Tree” a second time. .. .5.W.8.: So-so verse
follow-ing an old track... .F.H.K.: Much obliged;
will be very useful D.R.8.: Thanks; cheque for-
warded.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
IV F. 8.: Well, he’s not the only one starting at
the 'bottom L.P.W.: Stiff and ill-balanced.,..
G.A.C.: Pointless jest F.H.: An old Tom Glover
joke P.A.8.: Scratch? E.G.H.: Juvenile....
1.M.M.8.: Not so bad; keep on A.M.A.: Worth-
less H.V.K.: The week’s feeblest joke. . . .I.B.:
They show little promise, but lessons might make a
great difference... .L.O’T.: Reminds us of the
horrors we used to see in family albums. , ..R.T..
What style do we want? Nothing like the sample
you sent E.E.S.: Fair drawing; wretched joke.
...A.C.8.: Economy of line is worth striving for,
but not at such a sacrifice A.D.F.: All losers
JH• An ancient wheeze... .M.G.: Don t like flappers
with’corkscrew legs. .. .P.H.: Take move time over
y OUr work 0.M.: A downtrodden little offering.
H.B.C.: Don’t emphasise your outlines so much.
. ...D.R.: Only contortionists could sit in those
attitudes... .P.M.D.: You’re an optimist, but no
artist. .. . S.T. A scraggy 10t... -P.8.: It missed... -
M.C.: Dead from the feet up C.G.: Smudgy....
'p_p.y.; Not likely to make anyone sit up and
take notice... .N. 15.: Poor.


W.-;
df
A
m
- ■
■
a v '? i -A; r , -/„<■'' - * im: - 1
-
■ ; ■
•«
i
m
■
A
, V
n
■H
hMHhMI
■
H i
■H
n
M '
fT " I /
1
V-'4
■ ■
; '
m
raBBl
'' 'jiwMSwS}'
■ • -» v -
........
a
..**— i
■1
\
Ms m
msm
1
1
mm
f
» # A i
■r
i,-v:
m
HUB
■ H
/ J5
■
mmmm
wmSmmm
■ «*"
sy
V ■'
M
M
■
: :: :V,.
•i;
i pBF J?>
It f SsSm jk r
\W"i
f “ 11*^
1 .
K. .
m
m
WBf\ *
ill
-
jHripMf
ill llllSIli
I
■ :';:/
I ■■■»
MS
:
HI -
dfg


The Bulletin
Vol. 53. —No. 2755.
November 30, 1932.
AND THAT’S THAT.
“Mr. Hoover says that no facts have been put forward to justify even the suspension of the war debts It is unnecessary to say that, whatever the attitude
of the other Powers, Britain would not consider a default.” —London cable.
SAM: “There’s a lot of reason in what you say, John; but I’ve got my taxpayers to consider. I must have my money.”
JOHN BULL: “Very well. You know where I stand. I’ll pay you EVEN THOUGH IT BUSTS BOTH OF US.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
It ox 252188 ; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: It 4-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12c, 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months. Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route’’: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for 4oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
“EFFICIENCY AND ECONOMY.”
The Ottawa agreement requires of us that
tariff protection shall be given only to those
of our industries which are reasonably
sound and promise to be successful; and
we are to give British manufacturers a
chance to compete “on the basis of relative
costs and economical and efficient produc-
tion.” Whatever else they may be these
articles are a clarion call to Australian
industries to improve their practice and
reduce their costs.
In other countries this is being done
even without the urge of an Ottawa agree-
ment. In France it is realised that “only
by reduction of costs will the world over-
come the depression; and because all the
world sees this, we must set our industries
in order or miss our golden opportunity,” a
French technical writer says. In America,
the president of the General Electric has
proposed that concerns having 50 or more
employees and doing inter-State business
should be formed into trade associations,
under Federal supervision, “to distribute
information on standardisation of products
and stabilisation of prices; and to outline
trade practices, business ethics and methods
of costing land accountancy.” France’s
mind is engaged on the same ideas. Eugene
Mathon, president of the French Wool
Trade Association, lately discussed a plan
for getting rid of the inefficient and uneco-
nomical. “Factories whose price of produc-
tion exceeds the normal are in any case
condemned to disappear,” he wrote, “if their
owners will not or cannot effect a radical
reorganisation. But it is men who go bank-
rupt, not factories. The factory remains
and is rebought at a price below cost, and
becomes a more dangerous competitor and
disorganising factor. It is better to have
six healthy businesses than a dozen sickly
ones”—and he proposes industrial corpora-
tions, part of whose business would be to
compensate factories closed down as re-
quired. This is an extension of a practice
of our own ; especially in Victoria, country
hotels have improved enormously during the
past few r years because we have eliminated
the competition of the unfit. In Italy
under Fascist rule trade bodies have been
officially organised, and manufacturing in-
dustries have been linked up with distribut-
ing agencies. There are scores of small
industries—we have them ourselves—which
have never been able to get on their feet
because, though they know how to make
goods, they do not know how to sell them.
The Fascist way is to assign such a producer
to an established distributor and require
him to market the goods so as to enable
the industry to get firmly on its feet. In
Germany, Czechoslovakia and Switzerland
this process of rationalising industry has
been going on briskly under various names
and with various modifications.
Nor has Britain been idle., As a result
of a study of the cotton industry ipade in
1929 by Montagu Norman, governor of
the Bank of England, the Lancashire Cotton
Corporation was formed, and acquired 70
mills. Mr. Norman had found that, while
70 to 80 p.c. of the cotton goods exported
by Japan are handled by three or four
firms, there were no less than 1800 cotton-
spinning and -weaving firms in Lancashire
alone, and between 700 and 800 export mer-
chants, many of them struggling desperately.
Out of this inquiry sprang also the
Bankers’ Industrial Development Co. “It
is a fact to be regretted,” the “Times”
reported when this co. was announced
years ago, “that the basic industries have
been very slow to undertake reconstruction
co-operatively. The process involves not
only writing off of lost capital—the sim-
plest part of the operation—but also pro-
vision of new. Obviously only investors
with the very strongest stomachs and the
hardest nerves could be expected to provide
fresh capital for devastated industries. This
difficulty it is hoped the new co. will
remove... .until the reconstructed industries
are strong enough to appeal to the investor
direct.”
From all this one thing at least is
obvious: the world is getting ready to
reduce its costs of production and of dis-
tribution; and Britain, which no doubt had
fallen far behind in factory equipment
and organisation, is now well forward in the
new movement. In such circumstances, and
especially in view of the Ottawa agreement,
where do we stand? Have we realised that
factories which were reasonably efficient
and economical five years ago are no longer
so, because the world has set up new
standards of industrial efficiency and eco-
nomy? Elsewhere the whole trend is
towards aggregation and mass production:
that is why the president of the French
Wool Trade Association wants to weed out
the inefficient mills; that is why the Lan-
cashire Cotton Corporation amalgamated
70 mills. It may be that Australian factory
statistics have been thrown awry by re-
classifications ; but, as they stand, they show
a gradual reduction in the size of the aver-
age factoiy measured by number of em-
ployees: there were 23.1 per factory in
1920 and 18.5 in 1930. Certainly there is a
growth in mechanisation; the net h.p. per
employee had increased 50 p.c. before the
crash came in 1929, and the value of plant
just over 100 p.c. But, notwithstanding this
very solid increase in plant per employee,
the value of production per employee—that
is, the value added in the process of manu-
facture—has grown very slowly: it was
£305 in 1921 and no more than £350 10
years later.
Situated as we are, several small fac-
tories widely scattered may be able to
supply the public with cheaper goods than
one centralised factory; for carriage and
distribution in Australia are outrageously
dear. That, however, does not improve
our prospects: it only suggests that there
are exceptional obstacles in the way of
industrial efficiency and economy in Aus-
tralia. But the existence of those obstacles,
which are more or less natural, merely adds
to the urgency of attacking others over which
we have control. Among these, of course,
is taxation, and especially the taxation of
national trade. Thus far, because every
State has its own income tax superimposed
on the Federal tax, and because there is no
co-ordination, the national producer is liable
to be taxed three times on the one product:
by the Federal authority, by the State where
the article is produced and by the State
where the article is sold —a piece of insanity
with which it is safe to say no other
country in the world is burdened. Yet,
under the Ottawa agreement, if our indus-
tries are not efficient and economical, we
have undertaken that they shall be exposed
to British competition. This is like fling-
ing a man to the ground and then kicking
him because he is not on his feet.
THE PLEASURES OF WORKER'S
COMPENSATION.
Courts, courts, courts! A court for the
dog tax, a court for the income tax and a
court for the mortgage. One for the master,
which is Supreme; one for the dame, the
Women’s (in camera) ; and one for the little
boy who lives down the lane, which can
send Boy Blue to a reformatory. Big
courts, little courts, and middle-sized
courts. One for every street. A court,
sometimes three of four of them, in every
town and hamlet. As for big Sydney, 10,
is it not studded with them, twinkling stars,
where Judges and magistrates and assessors
shine with their, borrowed lights!
And here surely is the very Queen —or,
according to opinion, here is the very
scream—of all quaint courts, which sits
itself in Bridge-street, in rented glories, up
two flights of stairs, in a large white room,
bare of any decoration save a lion and a
unicorn a-hanging by twin threads from a
tack on the wall, over the chairman’s head.
This little Olympus has every attribute of a
court except the name, for they call it the
Worker’s Compensation Commission.
A-sitting at a table, behold three seers in
a row. No wigs are allowed: there are no
wigs on the “bench,” and no wigs among
the advocates. A wig is regarded by the
true democrats, common here as black-
berries, much as pot-hat or frock coat,
accursed appanages of capitalism. But,
contrariwise, the assassin hand which
expelled the wigs from this tribunal found
blessed substitutes for horsehair in tea and
tobacco. So at 11 a.m. the Lords of Com-
pensation rise, look distant, majestic, aloof;
as to say, “Let us now ascend into the
clefts of the rock, where the eagles abide.”
The Commission bows to the Body of the
Court, and the Body of the Court bows to
the triolet; and then in a remote room may
be heard the sound of chastened revelry,
the tinkle of the teacup. The Body of
the Court, alas, has no tea, but resorts to
tobacco, and the house is filled with smoke.
For all that cake and tea and unicorns
suspended by string, this is a formidable
place. Without appeal, awarding tens of
thousands with lordly gesture, what
court is like unto it? Consider also
the tale of rooms? There are the
accountant’s room, the messenger’s
room, the room of the Assistant-Registrar,
and the room of the Chief Medical
Referee, where horrific files, and charts, and
stethoscopes abound. And there is the
Conciliation Bureau, where you may kiss
and make friends; and a room for the “In-
quirers,” as in the days of Moody and San-
key ; and the room for Medical Examina-
tion; and the Public Office; and the Record
Office; and the Registrar’s room; and the
Secretary’s room. And one room for Judge
Perdriau, and one room for “Judge” Rout-
ley and one room for “Judge” Halliday;
and a library, where you may read till you
are blind, free of charge, books which will
enable you to shatter the insurance com-
pany ; besides rooms for the lawyers, and
rooms for the witnesses, and rooms for the
proletariat, where the proletariat may sit
and sing psalms of praise to their gods who
built this Babylon.
The Worker’s Compensation Court has no
small province. Averaging its awards, one
would be surprised to find the magnitude of
the golden river which flows perennially
through it. Appearances, are misleading in
this most unpretentious hall, with its no-
wigs, no-uniforms, no tipstaff or police or
oyez, no sign of force or duress—save that
one plump youth, in a black alpaca coat,
sits near the door, with two large velvet
crowns on his alpaca lapel. Yet, in a few
minutes, these august beings on the dais
will dispose of your grievances as to £lOO,
or £5OO, £6OO, £BOO, £lOOO, £llOO, £l2OO and
so forth. For money, the employer’s and
insurance man’s money, is here a small
thing. This is the common material .with
which the Commission spins its glistening
web, while the companies lift up their
voices in supplication, and trade howls in
desolate places over the troubles of Rachel.
For this is the wailing-place of Rachel, or
of Rachel’s husband. He, good man, has
been hurt at his work, and so he shall be
pensioned, nurtured, doctored, chemisted.
Nay, and if the Reaper comes, then here is
Mrs. Rachel in the ashes. But not for
long. Rachel shall hie herself to the court,
bringing, like Cornelia, her children with
her. “These,” she saith, “are my jewels,
I have no others. Weep and dissolve in
tears, ye marble-hearted Judges!” Where-
upon Messrs. Pe'rdriau,.Halliday and Rout-
ley shall say, “We have no wigs, but we
have hearts. Large lion hearts. We are
paid annual stipends so that we may exer-
cise large, tender hearts. Go, Rachel,
we are thy knights; here be hundreds of
pounds for thee, and hundreds of pounds
for thy jewels. Let industry and trade
see to it.”
Undoubtedly the Worker’s Compensation
Act and its tribunal have been a splendid
boon for the toiler. It is magnificent to
think that a worker damaged in the course
of his employment may, with his wife and
family, sisters, cousins and aunts, find large
succor in this most benign of all possible
tribunals, one where no technical jargon
and hampering “legalisms” dam up the flow
of cash. In a humanitarian State, this
is the ark of the covenant, the most humani-
tarian of devices to separate the employer
from his cash.
A feeble voice shall pipe: “Can we afford
it?” What of it?
Judge Perdriau is most patient and cap-
able of all Commissioners, a mine of law
on Death, Disease and the Golden Plaster.
Messrs. Halliday and Routley, his aides-de-
camp, are well known for probity, efficiency,
urbanity. But whether the fountain can
continue indefinitely to spout its healing
waters is a matter not so much of polity
as of mathematics, and of those laws which
Mr. John Cade omitted in his figurings on
the pint-pot which must hold a quart.
E. H. T.
THE TRANSPORT TANGLE.
The conflict between trams and ’buses has
brought the whole question of public
ownership and control under review. At the
outset the idea behind public ownership was
to prevent exploitation. It was seen that
competition led to waste, which the public
had to pay for; and if competition was
ruled out and a private monopoly created,
then great care had to be taken to secure
for the public a fair deal. Even when
Parliament was well aware of how carfe-
fully a franchise should be drawn up, big
errors were liable to be made. Thus we
have the case of the Silverton Tramway
Co., whose line connects Broken Hill and
the South Australian border. Because the
N.S.W. Government was not prepared 40-
odd years ago to build a line to lead traffic
away from Sydney and feed the system of
another State, a private co. was authorised
to make the connection on conditions which
looked quite innocent; but they permitted
the co. to pay for many years a dividend
of 80 p.c. It w f as argued that profits like
that could be made only at the expense of
the customer or the staff or both; and be-
cause cheap carriage was of the utmost con-
sequence, public ownership and control was
adopted as the policy of the country.
Unfortunately one thing was overlooked:
that the people who had been liable to grant
the franchise to private owners enabling
them to make excessive profits were the
people who also would have public owner-
ship and control in their hands. The result
has been that, while dangers of one kind
have been avoided, we have been plunged
into a sea of others. It is not necessary
to go again into the matter: we know,
however, that, even before the present de-
pression hit us in 1929, Australian State
railways had made losses amounting in one
year to over millions, and that, notwith-
standing in many cases very excessive fares
and freight-charges, so little provision had
been made for depreciation that the capital
account of the State railways is now far
in excess of fair value. If their net earnings
over the 10 years to 1929 were capitalised
at 5 p.c. the total would be 184 millions,
whereas the actual average capital was 266
millions. On that basis the over-capitalisa-
tion is p.c.
And now something worse has happened.
Because all this huge sum of borrowed
money was sunk in railways, and because
another large sum was sunk in tramways,
and because we had provided practically
nothing in the way of a sinking fund, nor
built up any reserve to cover depreciation
and obsolescence, when motor transport
arrived we sat by and did nothing. We did
not even have the courage to say to motor-
waggons and ’buses, “You must keep out.
We have borrowed money and put it into
railways and tramways, and we are not
going to let competition kill our assets
and throw the burden of interest and of
repayment upon our taxpayers.” If we
had taken up that position it would have
been understandable. The fact, however,
was that We dared not confess that, in our
hands, the system of public ownership and
borrowing to cany it into effect—the only
way we knew—had turned out a ghastly
failure, inasmuch as it stood in the way of
our people using better means of transport
as they became available. So we buried our
heads and let motor transport in until the
competition began to be most seriously felt;
then, naturally, in almost every State we
found the problem very hard to solve
without doing injustice.
The position was worst in N. S. Wales,
because there the sore had been neglected
longest, and because, on account of physical
features, motor-’buses had become more
numerous in and around Sydney than else-
where in Australia: there were 492 on defi-
nite routes at the end of 1930. Then Mr,
Lang proceeded to do something, and, as
usual, did it blunderingly. The Stevens
Government when it arrived was bound to
review its predecessors’ decisions, partly be-
cause it was quite clear that some of Mr.
Lang’s appointments were “impossible,”
partly because the natural rights of the ’bus-
owners and their employees had been dis-
regarded, partly because no scheme for the
dovetailing of ti’am and ’bus had been
worked out. So a Transport Advisoiy Com-
mittee was appointed, and was required to
recommend a system which would provide
“the most efficient, economical and con-
venient means of transport possible with the
resources at present available whether now
in use or not.”
The chief difficulty before this committee
was that some of the resources—the trams
—belong to the State; others—the ’buses—
are owned by individuals. But on one
point there was no uncertainty: both eco-
nomy and efficieqcy demand that the entire
service shall be under one central autho-
rity so that available equipment may be
used to the best advantage and as con-
stantly changing circumstances require.
Thus, as one knowledgeable witness told
the committee, in Berlin many ’buses run
on Sundays where during week days there
is a tram service—because, for one reason,
the traffic is lighter, and, for another, the
’buses are less noisy.
The committee therefore came to this
conclusion probably with little or no diffi-
culty. That meant one of three things:
(1) The purchase of the ’buses by the
State; (2) the formation of a co. to pur-
chase both trams and ’buses and operate
them; (3) the formation of a co. in which
State and private owners would hold shares
or debentures. The committee rejected the
first alternative as impracticable at present ;
it suggested as its own first alternative a co.
with a 25-year franchise, the ’bus-owners
being paid for their assets in ordinary
shares, the Government getting 25 p.c. in
cash (to be raised by an issue of pref.
shares), and 75 p.c. in 25-year debentures
at 4 p.c. Failing acceptance of that, it
recommended a public utility transport com-
mission “to handle all omnibus transport
in the metropolitan area,”' and to be con-
trolled by five directors, two of them
appointed by the Government.
Of the alternatives, that which contem-
plates a co. is the better. Companies in
which the Government is largely interested,
though not unknown in Australia—examples
are the Commonwealth Oil Refinery and
Amalgamated Wireless—are common in
other countries. Germany has very many.
The case of the city of Cologne might well
be studied: its physical features are a good
deal like those of Sydney. It had a tram-
way system hampered, like Sydney’s, by
narrow, winding streets and narrow bridges
—a system originally owned by two private
cos., but taken over by the city. ’Buses
appeared on the streets; and presently the
tramway administration financed the Road
Omnibus Co. to take them over and extend
the services. Later still, the Motor Coach
Co. was promoted by the city, through the
tramway administration, mainly to relieve
the suburban railways: the shares are held
half by the city and half by the rural
authorities. One of this co.’s articles pro-
vides that a line may be operated only as
long as it yields at least 5 p.c. interest.
Also, there is the Cologne-Bonn Railway
Co.: half of the capital was provided by
the Cologne municipality and half bv Bonn
and other municipal authorities. Finally,
there is the Rhenish Air Traffic Co., in
which the city has about a one-third interest.
The public bodies which put up the capi-
tal of these cos. regard themselves as in-
vestors, and look for a reasonable return —
generally limited. The co. for its part
regards itself as a business concern required
to make profits and, more important still,
to provide for replacements, whether due
to wear and tear or obsolescence. The busi-
nesses are lifted right out of the atmosphere
of politics and political control. We want
that very badly in Australia. So the
recommendation of the Sydney committee
may be warmly welcomed, though it is
doubtful whether there should be any return
of capital to the State; certaiply there
should be none unless the money is ear-
marked for repayment of loans beyond all
possibility of diversion to any other purpose.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wheat-farmers on Strike.
Some of the cockies in Westralia have
torn a leaf out of the book of the farmers
in the middle-west of the U.S.A., and not
only are holding up deliveries of wheat “till
the Government agrees to pay a bounty of
6d. per bushel,” but are picketing railway
stations and sidings. The management com-
mittee of the Wheatgrowers’ Union in that
State reports that . 80 p.c. of the branches
have fallen into line. Simultaneously the
wheat executive of the Primary Producers’
Association in the same State has been in
session, and has resolved “to urge the Fed-
eral Government to take action to bring
wheat-exporting countries together m an
attempt to reduce wheat areas by 20 p.c.”
The trouble would never have arisen had
the: Federal Government . not made its
foolish blunder of turning down the pro-
posal for a bounty of 3d. or Id., to be
provided by. a sales tax on flour, and fol-
lowed that up -by setting aside £2,000,000,
not to assist the wheat-growing industry,
but as a dole to those who are suffering
the greatest hardships through their failure
in the industry. There was a . case for a
bounty and still is,a case. The farmers are
living in a country of high protection;
they pay the price of that policy in the
shape of higher costs for many of the goods
they must buy, and get no advantage from
it in the sale of the goods they must sell,
because those prices are fixed by overseas
markets. They must accept those prices
for the goods they actually sell overseas;
but: it is not just that in a protectionist
country; they should have to accept prices
on the overseas basis for goods sold for
consumption at home. The position the
farmers face is that,.while non-rural com-
modities have been held up to within 5 p.c.
of the 1929 level, their wheat is 35 p.c.
below it. The justification of the flour
tax is that the non-rural population is being
paid on - the • high-price basis, . while it is
buying from the wheat-farmer on the low-
price basis.
As the Primary Producers’ Association of
W.A. and many others, see, the world does
call for a reduction of the .area under wheat.
But the natural way of bringing about that
reduction is through the most unprofitable
farms falling out of use. When there are
too many blacksmiths or newspapers in a
town, we don’t say that, despite their
obvious superabundance, must be kept
going by calling on the more profitable ones
to, give up a proportion' of their business
for. the benefit of the less profitable ones.
So, too, when there are too many wheat-
farmers, as there are now, it is foolish to
attempt to sustain their numbers by a pro
rata reduction of cultivated area. The thing
to do is to assist the hopeless or near-
hopeless into another job. What the Fed-
eral Government proposes to do is to spend
two millions, not in giving the industry the
bonus to which it is entitled, but to keep
the hopeless or near-hopeless in an industry
which! has no use for them.
4
Taxation and the Courts.
More than the newspapers of Australia owe
thanks to Melbourne “Herald” for taking
to the High Court the claim of the Federal
Commissioner to levy income tax on money
spent in resisting suits for libel. The refusal
of the taxing officers to allow this
money to be deducted from assessable
income has been a grievance for 20 years
or more. The Commissioners have always
held that libel damages or costs were not
money wholly laid out or expended for the
production of assessable income. Justice
Mann, of Victoria, whose finding was
appealed against in this case, supported that
view; and two High Court Judges agreed
with him. “The expenditure,” Justice
Starke said, “is not for the production of
income, but is rather a depletion of income:
it is incurred to pay compensation for
wrongs that have been committed and costs
incident to it.” But the payments made
are not necessarily for wrongs committed.
On the contrary they may be costs in-
curred in l-esisting the attempt of others to
do a wrong. The Bulletin can speak defi-
nitely about that. Some years ago, during
a tin-boom, an attempt was made to swindle
the public. This paper exposed the con-
spiracy—and immediately was served with
a ci’op of writs. The object, of course, was
to close the paper’s mouth while the
swindle was in progress. The paper took a
risk, however, and went on warning the
public, as it was not only its duty but its
business to do. The actions were not pro-
ceeded with; but recovery of the heavy
costs incurred was out of the question.
That was money necessarily spent not as
compensation for wrongs committed but in
exposure of wrongs attempted, and it was
necessarily spent to maintain The Bulle-
tin’s capacity to produce assessable income.
As the majority of the High Court saw
and ruled, a libel, generally speaking, is inci-
dental to the carrying on of a business
whose purpose is to make a profit; whether
money is expended in the production of
assessable income cannot be determined by
considering only the immediate reason for
making a payment and ignoring the purpose
for which the liability was incurred.
But ought questions of this kind to be
left-to the decision of Judges? They are
really questions of policy, not of law. Ought
this or that to be taxable, not as a matter
of law but as a matter of equity? All
that Judges can do is to determine the
meaning of an obscure law as it stands;
and it is, quite obvious that often they can
do little more than guess at the. meaning.
Moreover, what they'do guess at is at the
best the intentions of a Parliament 20
years or more old. Why should there be
.all this guessing, with liability to error,
and all this waste of money, when thei-e is
in existence a Legislature to say what are
its intentions to-day? .We might well call
upon our Pai’liaments to do much more
standing-committee work. If thus we had
a committee on taxation, consisting of the
acknowledged experts of the Parliament,
such problems as that now disposed of
might be dealt with as they arose, and
reports made for the guidance of Parlia-
ment. To drive men to great expense in
finding out doubtfully what a 20- or 50-
year-old Parliament meant when there is
in being a Parliament which can say be-
yond doubt what it means is entirely
unreasonable and characteristically waste-
ful.
*
The White in the Tropics.
Dear Bulletin, —“Feng-Shui's “The White
in the Tropics” (B. 16/11/’32) is an inter-
esting description of a white man living in
an alien and more or less native community
of an inferior mentality, with limited oppor-
tunities of social intercourse with people of
his own race, and subject to temptations to
which he had hitherto been a stranger.
The sugar districts on the coastline of North
Queensland, where the principal white Aus-
tralian tropical settlements are situated, are
fortunately free from such an environment,
the population being almost all white and
the principal industry conducted under com-
pulsory white-labor conditions. This has
since 1902 resulted in the right class of
settlement and a stable resident population.
To a great extent sons are working the farms
originally taken up by their parents, who
did the pioneer work. These young native-
born are a fine type, self-reliant, industrious
and intelligent, with a rare knowledge of
their business. There are no signs of de-
generacy here.
The striking contrast between this tropi-
cal life and that so well pictured by “Feng-
Shui” shows the tremendous importance
of colored-labor exclusion. Nothing could
better indicate how completely the policy
of the Commonwealth Government in the
early 1900’s has been justified. And
we must remember that it was. an experi-
ment which had never before been tried in
the production of cane-sugar in any part
of the world. Under it, and with the en-
couragement given to the industry, and with
farmers and groups of farmers interested
in co-operative raw-sugar mills, we have
not only got such settlement as I have
described: we have been able to produce
the highest class of sugar with the least
tons of cane in the world.—Yours etc.,
D. L. R.
. ♦
Will They Never Learn?
Early in the month the House of Commons
devoted three days to a non-party debate
on unemployment. In winding it up,
Neville Chamberlain, the Chancellor of the
Exchequer, said that relief works had proved
useless, and worse.
Experience has shown that Government and
municipal expenditure on relief works is wasteful.
The interest charges merely add to the burdens
on industry, while the work provided is trifling com-
pared with the total amount of unemployment.
This is as true of Australia as it is of
Britain. Yet, unlike the British Govern-
ment, which has had a million to three
million unemployed on its hands ever since
the war and has tried everything except
reduction of taxes, our Governments will
not learn from experience. They have been
pouring out money for relief works through-
out the depression years. The Scullin Gov-
ernment began it by providing a million
for sand-shovellers, hedge-trimmers, foot-
path-menders and the like. At the same
time it cancelled the census due in 1931
on the score of economy, although a census
would have given a thousand unemployed
sedentary workers useful occupation for at
least part of the year.
The Stevens Government in N. S. Wales
is continuing along the same old path of
benevolent folly. Having still some millions
of bank money to play with, it is setting
apart £500,000 for “Christmas unemployed-
relief” and £600,000 for “winter unemployed-
relief”—our rude forefathers never thought
of these glozing expressions. Only a small
proportion of those whose names will be
called up are familiar with the jobs they
will be asked to do. And it will be inter-
mittent work at best—two weeks in five
for single men, three weeks in five for the
married. Because of these factors even
undertakings which may be expected to
return some portion of the interest will be
excessively costly. It would be immeasur-
ably better to let private employers have
£1,100,000 in remitted taxes, conditionally
on their giving work over and above what
they gave, say in the last week of Novem-
ber, to the extent of individual concessions.
This would admit of men and women being
engaged in their own trades and callings,
and they would be far happier and more
useful in such than when struggling with
strange toil carrying an ugly suggestion of
charity. Many of them would have a
chance of being kept on; in any case, the
Government would get far more of the
£1,100,000 back in taxes than it will from
its relief workers, most of whom are to be
exempt. After all, Australia has to look to
private wage-payers to re-employ 90 per
cent, of the workless. It might be said
that eveiy Government or municipal relief
work lessens their capacity to do it.
Friendly Societies in N. S. Wales.
Lang’s official organ, the “Labor Daily,”
says the Stevens Government is whittling
down the friendly societies’ subvention to
nothing. The “Daily” is wrong: it- was its
boss' who whittled down the subvention.
When he was Premier he reduced it to
£50,000, a cut of about 40 p.c., and made
that cut retrospective 18 months. From
May to December of 1931, friendly societies
did their best to negotiate with Mr. Lang,
and he avoided them; and in a manner
characteristic of the late Government, the
bill was forced through all its stages in
the one day.
Mr. Lang is attempting to make capital
out of the fact that subvention to societies
under Spooner’s bill (Spooner is fostering
it) is restricted to the present member-
ship. But that is done at the express
request of the societies. They prefer to
ask the future generation of members to
pay a contribution sufficient to protect
them in their old age, rather than allow
them to be dependent upon the whims of
politicians. Lang taught the friendly soci-
ties a valuable lesson in that regard.
But there is another important differ-
ence between Lang’s legislation and Spoon-
er’s. Lang’s £50,000 was a limit; and, as the
number of subvention members increased
(as they must do over probably 25 yeai-s
to come), the amount per member would
grow less. That. had a veiy adverse effect
upon the actuarial position of the societies.
Spooner again accepted the suggestion of
the societies and provided for a payment
based on the actual contributions of the
subvention members, no matter how many
there might be. . This means a present
saving to the Government, but the societies
know where they are, and their actuai’ial
valuations are on a sounder basis.
O
The Child in the Cow Country.
Dear Bulletin, — You have published some
general replies to “Ratio,” who wrote on
the subject of the overworking- of children
on Vic. dairy farms. I can give figures.
There are 3085 dairy herds under test in
the Vic. Cow Test Association, containing
90,324 cows, an average of 29 per herd.
This includes many big herds with milking-
machines (there are a dozen such, averag-
ing over 50 cows, within four miles of
me at present); so the average size of the
hand-milked, herd is considerably under
29. This doesn’t leave much scope for
“Ratio’s” kid who “milk's 12 to 20.”
“Milking since 5 a.m.” is also an exaggera-
tion. I have experience .of dairy farms
extending over the last 13 years, and cover-
ing nine shires in Vic.—five in Gippsland
and four in the northern irrigation areas—
and I have found that the average time
of rising on a dairy farm is 6 to 6.15 a.m.
As a herd-tester during 1930-31, I visited
33 farms, and kept data on this very point.
On two of them the “hands” got up before
5.30; on 11 of them at 5.30; on 11 at
6 a.m., and on nine about 6.30. As for
overworked children having to travel “up-
wards of three miles to school,” from where
I write you can travel 77 miles on a main-
road round trip, and pass 23 State schools
—an average of under Si miles apart. So
the kid who travels over three miles is a
raritv.
“Ratio” suggests that herd-testing and
the impi’ovement of herds will do away
with child labor. Here he is on good
ground. I know two farms within a mile
and a half of each other. One man milks
13 cows on 30 acres, and gets a yield of
51001 b. butter-fat. The other man milks
33 cows on 100 acres and actually gets a
few pounds less buttei-fat' per year than
the first man. One man gets nearly 4001 b.
per cow; the other about 1501 b. per cow.
The man with the 1501 b. cows has two
schoolboys in the milking yard; the other
has no need of them.- The average yield
per cow in Victoria is a little under 1801 b.
per annum; in the tested herds it is 2601 b.
p.a., and there are over 100 herds in the
State averaging well over 3001 b. Comment
is unnecessary. (The statistics are from
Vic. “Journal of Dept, of Agriculture,” May,
1932, p. 213-223.)—Yours, P. M.
♦
Trouble Looming in South Africa.
“Der Jong”: The forecast by Blackwell,
K.C. (B. 23/11/’32), that Hertzog, if he
is returned with a strong majority at the
next South African elections, will force
South Africa into the same attitude to-
wards the Imperial ideal as the Irish Free
State now takes up, is only too well
fouiided. The pushing of British officials
out of the public services is an old stoxy.
It began as soon as responsible government
was granted to the ex-republics, and
was accelerated under the Union.
Hertzog is in all respects another De
Valera, a bigot without scruple, and blind
to all considerations standing in the way
of his dream of restoring the old republics
and absorbing in them the Cape and Brit-
ish Natal. Botha, a Boer, like Hertzog,
but one who remained true to the
undertaking he and Hertzog signed at
Vereeniging, threw the present Prime
Minister of South Africa out of his Min-
istry because he found him unreliable—to
put it mildly. Hertzog 1 Was. more than
suspect of complicity in the Boer rebellion
of 1914. Of late years he has masked much
of his former open bitterness. Now and
then, however, he shows that the old obses-
sion with the hated Outlander is still there,
and the rabid section of his following is
never checked for its periodical outbursts
of republican propaganda.
Hertzog has already a clear majority in
the Union Assembly. His party—at last
available figures—numbers 78, the South
African party 61, and the two Labor factions
eight* with one ione Independent. In the
elections next year women of 21 and over
will vote for the first time. It can be
taken as a certainty that the Dutch
women’s vote, directed by those uncom-
promising opponents of Britain and the
Empire the predikants of the Dutch Re-
formed Church and its offshoots, will go
almost en bloc to Hertzog. Further, the
voting qualifications which obtained in
some of the old colonies and which were
retained when the Union absorbed them
are to be abolished in favor of universal
suffrage. These qualifications related to the
ownership of property or a certain standard
of wages. Their abolition will give the Dutch
Nationalists added voting power in the
Cape and Natal. Unless the hard times
South Africa has been experiencing bring
about an unexpected swing against him.
Hertzog will probably come back with the
biggest majority his party has had.
With Natal and the southern section of
the Cape solidly Imperialistic, we will then
have the Ulster-Free State situation all
over again. No wonder the Rhodesians,
overwhelmingly British in personnel, have
steadfastly refused incorporation in the
Union. Living on the spot, they are able
to judge the position accurately.
4
Douglas Credit.
The Douglas “social credit” movement has
grown so much lately that Premier Stevens
has asked the N. S. Wales Statistician to
make a report on Douglas’s system. Un-
fortunately the neo-economists who are
followers of Douglas have become interested
merely through desperation with the exist-
ing state of things. The majority of them
are women, unemployed artisans and busi-
ness men who have been led on more by
criticism (for which there is ample scope)
of the gold and other standards than by a
clear understanding of Douglas’s suggested
way out. When driven in argument to the
last ditch, the average Douglas disciple
stalls with: “But things couldn’t be much
worse under any system than they are now,
could they?”
Thus it can be said that the larger pro-
portion of Douglasites are monetary re-
formers merely in a general sense. Idle
machinery, idle workmen, surplus produc-
tion and yet starvation and want is the
anomaly which these enthusiasts would have
put right. And those are the keys on
which Major Arthur E. Powell plays the
overture for the Douglas formula in “The
Deadlock in Finance,” one of the N. S.
Wales body’s principal textbooks. But the
booklet, is mostly overture and criticism
of our present state; the essential mechan-
ism of the Douglas system is hurriedly
disposed of in a few pages, glossed over
with the guile and optimism of a pros-
pectus-writer. Follow Douglas, and we
will “pass through to the land of economic
freedom—a veritable paradise, though only
a material one!”
Douglas’s A + B theory of surplus pro-
duction, in which he claims that industries
collectively do not distribute sufficient pur-
chasing-power to enable their goods to be
bought, has been blown out on numerous
occasions. Powell says there is no doubt
about this theory, but that it is by no
means easy to demonstrate. He therefore
shies at a close analysis, and satisfies him-
self by saying that credit is the disturbing
element; that it flows to industry and so
into prices, but not into the consumers’
pockets. That may be partly true at the
moment; but a couple of years ago “social”
credit was flowing very freely into the con-
sumers’ pockets by way of cash orders and
t.-p. systems, and it helped to precipitate
rather than avert the crisis.
Apart from the inaccurate diagnosis of the
disease—the “surplus production” theory—
Douglas’s remedy would be fatal. This is
to boost the purchasing-power of consumers
to a point where they can buy all the
output of all factories, thus keeping every-
body in a job, and eliminating all over-
production. In operation, manufacturers
would be forced to reduce their prices to
the level of the public’s purchasing-power,
but a Central Bank would reimburse them
out of a new note issue. These notes are
termed a “national dividend”; and so the
currency goes on to a sort of goods standard.
The nostrum is a vicious circle of infla-
tion and socialisation. Manufacturers,
satisfied that the Central Bank will sub-
sidise them with the difference between
cost and selling price, lose interest in keep-
ing exes. down. Workmen grow lax and
incompetent. Costs and prices rise; an-
other issue of notes is made to boost pur-
chasing-power. Follows another rise in
costs, and a robbing of depositors, policy-
holders and the thrifty. “But,” Douglasites
say, “the Government wouldn’t allow”
Exactly! The Government commences to
supervise manufacturing . and to control
prices, and socialisation begins.,


“Never let smoking
give you a sore throat”
CRAVEN “A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
m
■ - ::
m
wm
mm
,::■■■■■
s
:■■■' .
m
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Hoover moratorium expired while
Hoover was electioneering, and was not
renewed. Britain, France and other Euro-
pean debtors of Uncle have asked for a
suspension of war-debt payments due on
December 15. Hoover's reply is that as a
defeated President he can’t grant it and
Congress won’t. Newspaper barons Rother-
mere and Beaverbrook propose that Uncle
should be told to whistle for his money ; but
the Old Man will most probably treat their
advice as he did the cool suggestion from
the same quarter that Beaverbrook should
“Midas was rewarded with the power of trans-
forming everything he touched into gold. Finding
himself in danger, he entreated Dionysus to take
back the gift-”
UNCLE MIDAS (1932 A.D.) : “Take it back
nothing! I like the feel of it. Bring
me all you got.”
be made Prime Minister. It is a serious
matter for Father Bull to have to pay
95,500,000 dahlars —£28,000,000 pounds Eng-
lish at the present rate of exchange—but the
consequences of default would be immeasur-
ably more serious.
Before the 27th South Aus. Parliament
closed its stormy career, a reduction-of-
members measure failed of the necessary
majority in the Assembly. The same thing
happened about the same time in the Speck.
Moore carried reduction of members, with
(of course) redistribution of seats, in
Queensland, and suffered the usual penalty.
Governments that alter the electoral boun-
daries seem fated to be licked in Australia,
however necessary alterations are.
After hoping that the Federal octopus
would spare it the necessity, Westralia’s
Mitchell Government is imposing an unem-
ployed-relief tax of 44d. in the £. Baxter,
the Chief Secretary, assured critics in the
Leg. Council that the tax would “expire at
the close of the financial year.” So. it will,
in a sense, but if it is not renewed then,
the age of miracles will have returned. The
people of N. S. Wales were fed with similar
pap about the relief tax clapped on them.
They have now been paying it for three
years or thereabouts, and are resigned to
the belief that, under one name or another,
it has come to stay. ~
As the Financial Relief Act expresses it;
The schedule to the Sales Tax Assessment Act is
amended—-
(a) By inserting, after the item “Blowfly Traps”
the item “800k5.... magazines, periodicals and
printed music” ;
(c) By inserting after the item “Fertilisers” the
item “Fish including oysters, crayfish, prawns
and crabs” ;
(/) By inserting after the item “Petrol” the
items, “Pickles, sauces and vinegar; poison carts”;
(ff) By inserting after the item “Traps for
rabbits and dingoes” the item “Treacle and golden
syrup.”
The foregoing is repeated seven times, there
being eight Sales Tax Assessment Acts.
Comprehensive, anyhow, though a stranger
might find it confusing.
Having had a strenuous time since they
took office six months ago the Argyles won’t
l>e sorry when they reach recess. They
have some stiff, hurdles to clear yet, includ-
ing Budget bills, control of closer and
soldier settlement, transport co-ordination
and wheat acquisition (which aims at price-
fixing for home consumption). With a
docile majority such as Irvine had 30 years
ago such a programme would be no trouble;
but things are different now.
Martin, the N.S.W. Minister of Justice,
got his Moratorium Bill the Leg.
Assembly last week. There are 50 clauses
in it, and most of them have been recast
since the measure was introduced. Never at
a loss for a reply to critics, who were mostly
bewildered, Martin managed to convey the
impression that he is the only person who
understands his moratorium. Still, nobody
understood Lang’s.
Forgan Smith continues to pull down the
house that Moore built in Queensland. The
privileges of commenting on administrative
action and taking an active part in poli-
tical organisation have been restored to the
public service by an -amendment of the P.S.
regulations. Smith himself may be the object
of public-service criticism one of these days.
It will be no consolation then to know that
the feather that fledged the shaft was from
his own wing, so speak.
An old-age pensioner has won a £5OOO
prize in a lottery. This was a bit of a
knock for the Labor groups'at Canberra, for
it happened while they Were shouting that
old-age pensioners had been reduced to such
straits by a brutal capitalistic Government
that they were in danger of starving to
death; but the gentlemen soon got over it.
The cry now is that “the Government is
robbing the old-age pensioners to give money
to wealthy graziers.” If the alleged wealthy
graziers are blotted out, by low prices and
high taxes combined, there will be precious
little for pensioners or anyone else. Even
professional politicians will have to go short.
Jimmy Mitchell has been delivered of
another Secession Referendum Bill. If it
gets through the Leg. Council —the last one
didn’t —the vote will be taken by compulsion
on general-election day in March, Districts
dissatisfied with Perth rule are not to be
allowed to express a preference for new
States or for union with South or North
Australia; but the electors may ask for
“a national convention to revise the Con-
stitution.” Opposition-leader Collier says
the Imperial Parliament would never con-
sent to the disruption of a Dominion.
Edward Mitchell, Iv.C., has written that
“secession is unattainable.” The Constitu-
tion declares that the people of Westralia
agreed with the people of the rest of Aus-
tralia “to unite in one indissoluble Federal
Commonwealth.” Jimmy’s reply is that he
doesn’t care; his State has been “ruined
by Federation,” and he is going to get it
out somehow, even if he has to leave all
its loans behind.
“Another dispute has occurred at Shortland, a
centre of industrial unrest since the mines reopened
after the long stoppage of 1929-30. The men con-
tinually hold pit-top meetings. They recently had
six in seven days.”
HIS NIBS : “Here, what’s gone wrong? The
whole damn place is freezing.”
THE IMP: “Just the Newcastle coal-mining
gang having another stop-work meet-
ing.”
Railing at mortgagees has become.a popu-
lar pastime, and Cocky members are joining
in it with zest. A notable exception is
Paterson, deputy-leader of the Federal
Agrarians, who, while as keen on reduction
of interest on farm mortgages as any of the
railing brethren, has chosen rather to go into
the subject and make constructive proposals.
He has worked out tables which show
that 4 p.c. Commonwealth bonds, being free
of State income tax and Federal super tax
(2s. in the £), give a higher yield to the
investor than mortgage interest, which is
subject to both. A Victorian’s net return
from £2OOO invested in (1) bonds, (2) ft
5 p.c. mortgage and (3) a 6 p.c. mort-
gage is (1) 3.54 p.c., (2) 3.28 p.c., (3)
3.98 p.c. And taxation is on a lower scale
in Victoria than in other States, while the
bondholders are getting their interest in full;
many mortgagees are not. Paterson says
the first step in interest reduction should
be the abolition of the super tax; and he is
right. The £250 exemption announced last
week will relieve the position, but to noth-
ing like the extent required.
Lyons, introducing his Financial Relief
Bill, admitted that the interest burden on
farm and station properties must be
lightened; one per cent, less to the mort-
gagee, he said, in effect, would mean three-
pence a bushel more to the wheatgrower.
Patterson suggested exempting interest on
such mortgages from the 10 per cent, slug
where the rate does not exceed 5 per cent.
This would help, if it can be dOne within
the Constitution; but it would be better
to abolish the slug and the land tax along
with it. Both have become levies on capital.
“The Speaker of the U.S. House of Reps, suggests
that legalised beer will bring in a revenue of
between 250,000,000 to 300,000,000 dollars a year
and enable the Government to balance the budget.”
True patriot he, for, be it understood,
He gets well shickered for his country’s
good.
When things were booming American film
millionaires contrived to evade Australian
taxes; but a concern with an office in Syd-
ney (Warner Brothers-First National)
has found that it is not so easy to evade
wages awards. In August it handed a clerk
his weekly pay (£4 10s.), but asked him
to return it and sign a release. This pro-
cedure was adopted with other employees,
in spite of an official warning that it was
illegal. The co. pleaded that the breaches
were “only technical,” and that the money
had been “paid later”; but the industrial
magistrate said it was one of the worst cases
that had come before his Court, and fixed
the penalty at £2O.
How Fate plays tricks with politicians
was illustrated when Allan and Dunstan, for
the . sake of Cabinet solidarity, had to vote
against the other Cockies in Vic. Assembly
on the mortgage-intetest issue. Since the
Agrarians arrived in 1917 Allan has been
their leader. Six years ago Dunstan broke
with Allan and formed the Rural Progs., who
kept a Labor Ministry going for 18 months.
Having turned out Hogan, the Progs, amal-
gamated with the Cockies; then Dunstan
and Allan took office under a U.A.P.
Premier. Now sardonic Laborites have wit-
nessed the spectacle of both’ voting with
the U.A.P. Premier against the reunited
wings—leaderless, yet triumphant.
Every week or so since the avalanche
in June Lang’s newspaper has come out
with a column setting forth that this or
that defeated Langster was entertained by
his constituents and consoled with a cheque,
and that “Labor’s great leader” expressed
his obligations to the reject in a speech that
made the Money Power tremble. It was
McDicken’s turn last week —McDicken was
member for Concord in two Parliaments—
but “Labor’s great leader,” invited, as usual,
neither turned up nor sent an apology, and
there wasn’t a line about the affair in his
newspaper. What has McDicken done? He
was one of the few Diggers in Lang’s party,
and there are at least two others on whom
Lang has frowned. But the most feasible
explanation is that McDicken objected to
Lang’s Gas Bill. Rawlins, the fine, old
secretary of the Gasmen’s Union (since re-
tired), did the same, and was punished by
being left off the Gas Commission, his place,
together with a railway pass (since can-
celled), being given to the Melbourne Trades
Hall Langster Crofts,
, There is a touch of irony in the associa-
tion of Victoria and Queensland in the
appeal to the High Court, against the Webb
decision that the Queensland Marketing Acts
are in that they amount to
discrimination against other States. Three
or four years ago the Victorian Govern-
ment tried to keep Queensland chilled beef
off the Victorian market with regulations
under an amended Health Act. Queens-
land protests against Constitutional in-
fringements on Victoria’s part then rent
the welkin.
One result of the spread of democratiq
institutions in the “East” has been to reveal
that the Asiatic politician can beat even bis
Western brother in the matter of oratory 7.
Ceylon has a State Council. At latest
advices this year’s Budget debate has lasted
four days and yielded 26 speeches, and is
still under weigh, with all sails set and no
port in sight. Last year the debate lasted
eight days, and 56 speeches w’ere delivered,
the actual speechmaking occupying 48 hours,
not counting intervals for sleep, food and
toddy. Until this advisory body came into
existence the Cingalese had a reputation
for taciturnity.
A proposal to remove the Melbourne Town
Hall from its present site on the corners of
Swanston and Colins Streets looks rather
attractive. It is not the moment for a land
deal of such magnitude, but if a better time
were chosen the proceeds of the sale would
doubtless cover the cost of erecting a new
town hall where the Melbourne Hospital now
stands and removing that cramped insti-
tution to the pigmarket site; and leave
something over for other civic improvements.
The Town Hall in its present position is a
ridiculous anachronism. It is up against
the sidewalk, and traffic confusion reigns
whenever there is a function in the build-
ing. Cars drive over the pavement to the
disgust of pedestrians hurrying to the
talkies, and one of these nights an important
Toorakian may be torn out of his vehicle.
The Town Hall ought to be set back in
comfortable grounds where it can _be seen.
At prelent it has as much dignity as a
tenement house in Collingwood.
Queensland property owners are asking
fob the appointment of a civic commission
to administer the affairs of Greater Brisbane.
It is not suggested that Wallingfords have
been at work (as was shouted before the sus-
pension of Sydney City Council) ; but it is
strongly averred that things have reached a
sorry pass because of reckless borrowing
and extravagant administration. The peti-
tioners want a commission “elected by the
ratepayers, and not by any Government.”
“Labor”- magnanimously offers a council
elected on the Parliamentary franchise
instead.
According to figures issued by the League
of Nations, the world’s population is
2,000,000,000. Annual increase is 20,000,000.
of which Europe contributes 5,000,000 and
always prolific Russia 3,000,000. Asia annu-
ally swells her liorde of 1,100,000,000 with
a fresh 11,000,000. Africa is the only con-
tinent which shows a decrease. Yet with all
these fresh consumers coming into the world
the total consumption of the globe has
dropped by one-third, and foodstuffs are
being destroyed in almost every country in
order to keep prices from falling further.
“Senator Rae suggested that Senators should be
permitted to smoke when considering business.”
“All we do goes up in smoke; all we say
is only froth. Why not make a welter
of it?”
“C.Q” : Touching forced sales of farmers’
equipment in the Mallee (B. 23/11/’32),
some interesting evidence was given in the
Bankruptcy Court, Melbourne, by a farmer
who reported his assets at fi 81 and his
liabilities at £14,876. He denied that his
affairs had been discussed by the Farmers’
Defence League, but admitted that residents
may have purposely refrained from bidding
so that implements might be obtained by a
relative and placed at his disposal. At the
auction a shearing machine brought three
shillings, a motor truck three and six, a
plough three shillings, another a shilling;
the total proceeds were £1 3s. 3d. Realities
like these and the holdup of new-wheat
deliveries in Westralia make the activities of
city legislators look silly.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Chelsea” : The aerial triumphs of James
Mollison and his wife (Amy Johnson that
was) impelled a Sydney “Sun” writer to
give a list of other husbands and wives who
have become famous. He was doing all
right until he got back to the Rossettis.
And then:—
“Does the road wind uphill all the way,” wrote
Christina Rossetti, but not in the sense that she
could not reach the heights because her painter-poet
NOT THE CHANGE IN HER HE EXPECTED.
"Of course, she had money when I married her.”
"Then why grumble?”
"She still has it.”
husband, Dante Gabriel Rossetti, monopolised the
path. There was room on Parnassus for both the
author of the-“ Blessed Damozel” and his wife, and
both are enshrined there.
I wonder how many letters have since
reached the office to point out that Christina
was Dante Gabriel’s younger sister.
“Bloggs” : Sydney’s most mysterious house
is up for sale. It is a few hundred yards
west of the spot that most of the city’s
would-be suicides used to frequent before
the Bridge put the Gap’s nose out of
joint, so to speak. With its 15 rooms,
magnificent verandahs and parquetted floors,
it couldn’t have cost a penny under £6OOO
to build; and no one has ever lived
in _ it. For years and years nefarious
visitors have drifted in, smashed all the
windows, taken away everything capable of
being taken away, aiid left it a sinister cari-
cature of the beautiful place it must have
been. It has been set on tire more than
once. Nobody in the neighborhood knows
whom it belongs to. The paling fence of
a row of small cottages is within a
few yards of its front steps. There is a
theory that, in the dim past, the owner sud-
denly found that he had forgotten to acquire
the frontage to the roadway below, and that
someone else built in front of him, thus
obscuring his view of the harbor, and so
embittering him that he cleared out for ever.
But not even the oldest inhabitant can claim
to be able to speak with certainty on the
subject.
“Chevroford”: The two-minute Armistice
Day silence is an impressive experience in
Melbourne when observed at some spot adja-
cent to the Parliamentary buildings. The
bush slowly deepens until it becomes almost
oppressive; but from a vantage point at
the top of Bourke-street the traffic nearly
a mile away at Spencer-street can be seen
still actively passing, and away from the
main streets the Silence penetrates in
a partial manner. I was in a short, blind
alley off Little Collins-street on the last
occasion. Half a dozen people stood at
attention and factory girls looked silently
out of windows. But a girl came out of
one door and emptied a pan into a dustbin,
a man rushed out of another door and
started cranking a car engine and a boy
bustled out of another with a morning-
tea tray. Owing to these interruptions
and the expectation of others the observers
Were in a state of acute nervous tension
before it was over. Observance of national
events gradually ceases to have a general
significance as the events sink into deeper
historical perspective, and eventually they
are either left to officialdom or a few enthu-
siasts. Trafalgar Day, which is celebrated
by an annual dinner, is an example. The
Armistice Day ceremony presents an entirely
new problem, since, for a Silence to be a
Silence, it must be observed by everybody.
Incidentally, the Chinese have adopted the
idea, in the usual Celestial manner—by
inversion. Once a year the 400,000,000
inhabitants of the Republic ostensibly stand
still for two minutes and silently hate the
Japanese invader.
11. Mercer: Others probably noticed
what was to me the most humorous touch,
as it appeared in the printed form, in my
Bulletin story of 9/11/’32. It was con-
tained in the heading:
ALL DEBTS PAID, by Harold Mercer.
I hope my creditors are satisfied.
* * * *
“Leger”: It is medical, as well as legal,
custom (B. 23/11/’32) not to take fees from
fellow-practitioners. Some doctors carry
this pleasing trait further; years ago one
of them staggered me, when I suggested
his account was overdue, by assuring me that
he never billed parsons or newspaper
editors. In the case of the latter it
is possible that he expected an occa-
sional puff, and he may have reasoned
that their goodwill would be of assistance
to him in his political aspirations—he after-
stood for the Federal Parliament. For his
benevolent outlook towards the Church lie
may also have anticipated reward later. On
the other hand, he may have been entirely
disinterested. I can only record that I have
never met another doctor like him ; I wish
I had.
* * * *
“Retired Volt”: “Barangkali” (B.
16/11/’32) says I slipped in stating that the
technical difficulties of telephonic communi-
cation on the deep-sea cables remain unsur-
mounted. I was referring to communica-
tion between Britain and Australia. That
it is going to cost £4,000,000 to bridge the
gap between London and America suggests
that, we shall have to be content with the Beam
’phone for a while yet, though over shorter
distances the loaded cable may supplant wire-
i„„ rpu p rn „j w , < ,H It . f'nn,mioSA« i
S ° i S •
telephone cable to the 1 Speck°to
g Tammes under better conditions than She
existing radio ’phone, which suffers from
atmospherics. The cost is estimated at
£lBO,OOO.
*_* * *
“Farleigh”: In my experience varied
acquirements in a police magistrate are pre-
ferable to high legal qualifications (B.
23/11/’32). One instance I have in mind
was Gus Roe, who used to .be S.M. at Perth,
Gus started his career as a solicitor, but
swerved aside from that profession to become
a master mariner and a skipper of pearling
craft. After years of that he returned to
the law, and presently became a beak of
far more competence than most, because
of his much wider study of the human race
ludeed, in police-court cases where China-
men or Japs or Malays were implicated he
was invaluable, being equipped with a know-
ledge unobtainable in law-books. Probably
Judges are all the better, too, if they haven’t
devoted all their student years to grappling
with jurisprudence. There is Rufus Isaacs,
for example, who rose to be Chief Justice
of England; can anyone doubt that his early
experience as a cabin-boy and a stockbroker
were helpful? The Supreme Court of South
Africa has a Judge with a more remarkable
record in versatility thap any. After half
A ONE-MAN JOB.
THE BOSS: "Well, McTaggart, and how did you like that bottle of whisky I sent you?"
McTAGGART: "Aweel, sir, we’ve had sae mony visitors since ye sent it that I have no’
had the opportunity of tastin’ it yit.”
a dozen years at the Bar lie entered a theo-
logical college, and in due course became
an Anglican deacon and priest, and held
several incumbencies. Then he turned R.C.
Next he swung back into the court, became
a K.C., and mounted the Bench. Ilis name
is Saul Solomon.
* * * *
ut „ D, urn,,, + i.1.,,,.,.
•Tamwood : \\ hat. _ IS tlieic about lawi
tennis and cricket that
sane mem to write, and^oftei wisesober news-
pa 11 ers to Pub l l sh, si ch <ai o si o
about them? Horse-ia(n ig boxing and golf
their beads or thefr sense of proportion but
images and idiotic comparisons abound. Two
lanky youths caper about a grass court
pushing bouncing balls towards one another.
Presently you read that their innocuous ex-
hibition was an “epic struggle”; that
Guppy’s service was “terrific” and his back-
hand “devastating,” that Gluppins delivered
“cannon-ball smashes” and “rose to great
heights.” A stocky chap jerks a harder ball
in the direction of a taller fellow with the
middle-aged spread. Pumblechook is struck
on the spread and an afternoon paper says
it was deliberate; he is given out “leg
before,” and the afternoon rag says the leg
was two feet clear; or lie stays in,all day and
makes 67. Then “S. M. Herald” lias the
appropriate headline: Pumblechook Saves
Australia—or Peerybingle Saves England,
as the case may be. _ The same “S. M.
Herald,” describing a display as _ evanescent
as a snowflake on a river, said: ines
showed us something on Saturday that will
live for all time.” The late “Evening
News” once blithered all over its front page
to the effect that Another Invasion of
France was beginning, and that the Gauls
were summoning all their forces to repel
the enemy; the desperate hour had pro-
duced the man, and Cocliet would fight the
terrible Tildcn with all the sombre tenacity
of the poilu. I thought that couldnt be
matched, . but London Spectatoi has
matched it:—
Our team sails for the Antipodes—as Jemeoe
sailed in August, 1914, for the North Sea—freighted
SisjAST
English _peop . *
UT t. ‘ • • „ lA .i„ ophoni disci-
lom . A with the increase
and Dlantations It lies
£tatrs
cleaning paths, etc., a punishment, _ and a
very foolish form of punishment it is. To
make a boy or a girl hate a garden with an
unholy hatred one need only connect flowers
with “neglect to do home lessons,” “lack
of punctuality,” “laziness in school” and
so on. The idea was originated by
Squeers—“We go upon the practical mode
of teaching. Nickleby, the regular education
system. C-l-e-a-n, clean. W-i-n-d-e-r, win-
der. Then the boy goes and does it.” Copy-
ing out lines is another tragedy that dies
hard. Personally I abominate “Gray’s
Elegy,” because writing it out was so often
set as an imposition by an old teacher of
mine. That tolled the knell of a beautiful
poem, as far as we lads were concerned.
:J: * *
. “Mells”: A lecture on the life and work
of Henry Parkes, given in Sydney, con-
tained the amazing statement that the
future politician, after educating himself,
commenced at the age of 19 to “write verses,
for a living.” What sort of a living he got
out of it is left to the imagination ; there
certainly couldn’t have been much demand
in England in 1884 for verses of the
quality of
I would not change my ragged Jane
For all the peacock ladies going.
She knows the way to banish pain:
What she don’t know is not worth knowing—
which is probably the best remembered of all
Farkes , s excursions into the realms of poesy,
Surely even the deceased statesman’s warm-
a|mirerg wonld hardly conte nd that his
verse-writing was anything but a source of
mild hilarity to everyone except himself, a
rather pitiful delusion about which the ess
said the better,
" , " ~ .. " ,
‘Lay Aft the Watch : Changed conditions
are responsible for tb'e disappearance of
beards from the Navy and the Merchant Ser-
vice, where they were once almost a neces-
sity. I served my time in the old nitre-
traders. When the collar of the oilskin
coat was buttoned up it came about level
with the mouth and ears, under the sou’-
wester, with the beard-—the longer the better
—tucked down inside. This provided
warmth, and if it didn’t stop all the water
from going down inside, it took the chill off
before it reached your sea boots. After
two or three weeks’ “liove-to” oft Cape Horn
yo u soon realised that a beard was a neces-
Jgity, not an ornament. You never get a
ra i n squall off the Horn in winter, and
i’ V e seen men with their beards nearly solid
w ith salt for the want of a fresh-water
wash. We only got our “Liberty Day”
as i lore in the nitre ports, and that was.
sailors reckoned, to wash the salt out of
t ] ie j r beards.
* * * *
“Rokko”: A relative of mine is particu-
jaidy prejudiced against the fire alarm that
grips the operator and holds him until the
£ rigade arr ives (B. 23/11/’32). He was
01) a business visit to Germany before the
war, and was orf£ day asked by an agitated
householder to use the grip alarm and
sullunou brigade. Duly held, he waited
f“c«“ SbTforc the brigade arrived
a seedy-looking individual from the opposite
side of the street dashed across and rifled
his pockets. The victim knew little German,
and when assistance arrived his conduct was
tod "'“ thcl,ohoe *“
quietened aown.
“X.S.”: A barrister produced a queer
argument in favor of clemency for a man
charged with altering tote tickets from ss.
to £5 in Melbourne recently. He explained
that accused was about to enter the bonds
0 f holy matrimony, and a well-known writer
had declared that “man did not reach the
pinnacle of development until he felt the
urge* of marriage or had been married.”
Unmoved, ’Sonah prescribed three ye airs'
hard for the delinquent.
A-THYNKYNGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I think the less that Governments
Have got to spend or squander
(The same as ordinary gents.),
The harder they’ve to ponder
On how to keep their little jobs
And obviate dissensions,
And dodge the million-footed mob’s
Inimical attentions.
1 think I’d hate to have to hoc
A row as hard and stubby
As that which Scullin left to Joe,
Or Lang bequeathed to Tubby.
I think, when half the world is broke
And all perforce are hedgers,
That circle-squaring’s but a joke
Compared with squaring ledgers.
I think tin hares, the poor man’s sport.
Well-labelled —nothing surer.
I’d also hazard it’s the sort
That’s like to leave him poorer.
And when nocturnal betting takes
The knock and ardor dwindles,
I think that there’ll be fewer fakes
And lessened scope for Swindells.
I think the hunk of juicy meat
Which Uncle Sam’s _ expecting,
His pound of flesh, will have him beat
(As Shylock’s did) collecting;
I think there’s lots for ale and cakes
In times like these must whistle,
And, in default of sirloin steaks,
Must lunch on bone and gristle.
I think, whoever tops the score,
AlcDougall or McGinty,
That cricket’s just a game, no more,
The same as bowls —or shinty.
I think, while Larwood skittles stumps,
Or Bradman bowling bashes.
No seventh Ileav’n I’ll know or dumps,
Whoever lifts the Ashes.
I think, whatever lessons trite
The year that’s ending teaches,
The sun will shine as brave and bright
On packed and pulsing beaches;
While back to planes of heart’s desire
We struggle wanly, greyly,
There’ll still be chaps to smite the lyre
And strum the ukulele.
1 think that Jack will have his Jill,
Whatever prudence tutors;
I think there’s balm in Gilead still
Or, if you like, in pewters.
I think I’m out of artful rhymes
And inspiration’s sinking,
So here’s to cheerier, higher times !
High time they came, I’m thinking.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


NATURE KNOWS BEST.
“Jove, Ai’m sorry Ai didn’t get one of those humorous noses and
moustaches—eh what?”
“ Don’t worry, old dear. Yours are a perfect scream!”
“Nakhoda”: I see that my old friend
Jiddu Krishnamurti, who visited Australia
nine years ago, has rediscovered that he is
the Messiah and is returning to India from
America to complete his mission, despite an
offer of £2OOO a week to star at Hollywood
and the gift of a castle and 6000 acres. A
couple of years ago Jiddu was reported to
have said that he was “through with this
bluff” and was going into business. Appar-
ently he has found business too much for
him, for he is a very ordinary young man,
though an extraordinarily handsome one. It
shows how little people understand the
nature of the great world-shakers who are
subsequently accorded the title of “Messiah”
that Annie Besant’s protege should ever
have been taken seriously. The liberators
of mankind have always been lonely men.
They have invariably been misunderstood by
their contemporaries. The new truths they
have propagated have been their own dis-
coveries and they have forced them on the
world, not passively accepted them from
other people. There is no case on record
of a Messiah being the synthetic product
of the mind of an old lady who at
various times in her career has been a free-
thinker, a Theosophist, an advocate of birth
control, a denouncer of birth control, and a
thousand other things.
* * * *
“Picquet”: Newspaper lotteries, thinly
disguised as crossword competitions, have
resulted in thousands weekly being distribu-
ted in Perth and other cities. The skill
required to solve the puzzle is scarcely be-
yond the capacity of a child ; the goddess of
Chance picks the winners from a multitude
of successful entries in much the way as
at a Whiddon drawing. A percentage, of
the money received is retained for charity.
The old “missing-word” newspaper com-
petitions which had such a furore in Eng-
land 40 years ago, after they had been
started by “Pearson’s Weekly,” demanded
a good deal of skill as well as luck on the
part of prize-winners—there was no recourse
to marbles or anything of that sort—-and
yet it wasn’t long before a metropolitan
magistrate decided, and a Judge confirmed
the decision, that they were illegal. That
was in June, 1893, and it finished the
business. The “missing-word” had a run
in Australia a few months later—-I can
still recall a few Bulletin competitions—
but it was a very brief one, presumably in
consequence of legal warnings.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: The forensic performance of
G. U. Nathan, who has been holding up
the settlers’ end of the argument before the
Royal Commission on the grievances of
British settlers in Victoria, has earned the
respectful admiration of the legal profes-
sion. For seven days in succession he
addressed the Court at the rate of 29,000
words a day, and he expected to go on for
another week. As I write, the commis-
sion has sat for 137 days and the official
recorders have taken down 4,500,000 words —
equivalent to about 100 modern novels. The
settlers, mainly British army officers who
heard of Victoria as a land of milk and
honey and sold their Indian commissions
on the strength of it, have been trying to
get a hearing from the Government for the
past six years. They have now got it with
a vengeance.
* * =!: >fc
“C.Q.”: Yo-yo has been the subject of
a French Army order. Artillerymen sta-
tioned at Vincennes became addicted to the
game, and this flippancy so horrified the
authorities that they prescribed three days'
confinement in barracks for any soldier
found indulging. Possibly the fact that the
last epidemic of yo-yo that swept Europe
coincided with the French Revolution may
have had something to do with it. Inciden-
tally, Goethe seems to have been addicted
to the pastime, judging by a reference to
it in one of his poems.
* * *
“Rating”: According to one of the Sydney
papers, the rise in gold prices plus the
premium has made
pawnable articles
of the cap ribbons
worn by men of
the R.A.N. The
title “H.M.A.S.
Australia,” one
learns, contains a
grain of gold and
44 grains of silver.
The ribbon is
pawned and uncle
sends it along to
an analyst, who
burns the ribbon
and extracts the
metals from the
residue. It hardly
seems worth while.
A grain of gold is
worth about 3.5 d.
Even adding the
infinitesimal silver
value, it ' would
take a bargeful of
ribbons to slake
the average lower-
deck thirst.
♦i* Jjs
“C h i v erton”:
Warwick, on the
Darling Downs,
lias acquired an
interesting relic —a
sundial, engraver]
for C. F. Leslie, of
Canning Downs,
and dated 1844.
The Leslie bro-
thers, C.F. and
Patrick, were the
pioneer settlers of
those parts, having
made their way on
C u n n i n gham’s
tracks over the
ranges from the
N.S.W. side. One
of the properties
they took up was
Canning Downs,
and there they
settled and pros-
pered, in the face
of hostile blacks
and bad communications. The donor, L.
Cohen, has made it a condition that the dial
be erected in Leslie Park, which commemo-
rates the Scottish pioneers, as a gift to the
council in perpetuity.
* * * *
“Duplicate” : Britain’s latest craze is the
telewriter, now being established in busi-
ness houses. The Post Office has linked
up the new device with the public telephone
service in London, and before long most of
the principal centres in Britain will be pro-
vided with the combined service. The sys-
tem enables a firm to conduct typewritten
correspondence by telephone. A London
firm, say, calls up one in Leeds. When the
call is answered the caller operates a switch
by his telephone which brings the tele-
writer into circuit, the man at tlie other
end doing the same. The letter is then
typed on the London telewriter and is
instantaneously reproduced by the Leeds
machine. How the Post Office proposes to
make up for the certain loss in postage-
stamp revenue- is not stated.
“Claverton : Touching those dreary old
blocks that appear in newspapers again and
again to illustrate (?) some item of news
faintly connected with them (B. 23/11/’32)
complaint has been made in Britain that
four-year-old pictures of .sympathetic crowds
besieging Buckingham Palace to get the
latest bulletins about the King’s serious ill-
ness have been resurrected in the U.S. press
to represent unemployed demonstrations.
Few editors would go to that length, but I
have known some who weren’t particular
how or where they obtained anything that
would pass for local color. When the Gover-
nors were being hunted down in 1900, and
much copy was being made out of their
atrocities, a newspaper man asked a police
THE CLASSICS UP TO DATE.
DON QUIXOTE (charging the windmills ): “Our enemies are waving their arms in terror
at our approach.”
SANCHO PANZA: “Yes, they’ve got the wind up all right.”
sergeant if he could have a photo, of a
couple of black trackers. The sergeant
found he had several in stock. Which
particular two were required? The visi-
tor said that was immaterial; any two
natives would do. And that was the way
Perth got its first eyeful of the two dusky
malefactors whose crimes had rendered them
notorious.
* * *
“Bidadai'i”; “Jungor” (B. 16/11/’32)
notes an incongruity in the fact that Wcst-
ralians have been mowing down the emu
with machine-guns, although the bird is one
of our national emblems; but his sugges-
tion that useful fauna like the fowl, the
hare, the salmon, the horse and the pig
should figure in national heraldry is open
to the same objection, since all of them,
including the horse on occasion, are eaten.
The habit of including animals in coats-of-
arms seems to derive from sympathetic
magic. The primitive notion was that if
you made a model of an edible animal and
said certain words over it you automatically
increased the animal’s powers of reproduc-
tion, and thus stimulated the food supply.
This seems to have been the effect of placing
the emu in the Australian coat-of-arms, but
unfortunatelv the emu isn’t edible. It might
have been safer to have chosen the dragon,
the hippogriff, the centaur, the unicorn or
the pterodactyl. Since Australia is badly
in need of seven balanced Budgets the Gov-
ernment might consider replacing the emu
with a taxpayer—one-legged for preference.
* * * *
“Centurion”; In a recent article in the
“Revue des Deux Mondes” a curious story
is told of the
sale to the
French in 1904
of the Schlieffen
plan for the in-
vasion of
France, which
eventually took
place in 1914.
The story goes
that the plan
was sold by an
officer of the
German General
Staff for 60,000
francs. It was
tiled in every
War Office in
Europe long be-
fore 1914, while
such writers as
Bernhardi made
the general pub-
lic familiar
with it. The
amazing thing
is that no one,
even in France,
seems to have
taken the plan
seriously. At the
outbreak of hos-
tilities Joffre
and his follow-
ing were cer-
tain that the
big break-
through would
come from the
eastern flank
and made their
dispositions accordingly, with serious results
to themselves and their ally, Britain, at the
other end of the line. To a poker player
it looks as if the German for once let the
truth out, serene in the confidence that
everyone who knew him would anticipate
exactly the opposite.
* :!-• H:
“Centurion”: A curious oversight was
discovered by the military authorities' in
England when a contingent of C anadiaa
troops went over to attend a ? torchlignt.
tattoo at Aldershot and “incidents” occurred,
The Brass Hats discovered that no legis-
lation existed regarding the discipline or
Dominion troops visiting Britain, and a
bill was hastily introduced in Parliament
giving Dominion naval and military courts
the same powers in Britain as in their own
country. The oversight is the more extra-
ordinary since Dominion troops have been
visiting England on special occasions, begin-
ning with Queen Victoria’s jubilees, for
many years past.
si: * * si:
“S. Veg.”: The discomfiture of a bobby
made London laugh recently. He discov-
ered a young woman enjoying a midnight dip
in the altogether in a suburban lake, so
he sat on the miscreant’s clothes and waited
for her emergence. She climbed out on the
opposite side and walked home through the
streets, and as there were no identification
marks on the little things she left behind her
nothing could be done about it.
A popular year-book has long been wanted
in Australia, and six of the great news-
paper groups of the Commonwealth have
co-operated to supply it. The “Herald"
(Melbourne) undertook the organising and
printing; The Bulletin publishes and dis-
tributes it in N. S. Wales and New Zealand ;
the "Advertiser” in S. Aus., “Daily Mail”
in Queensland, “Mercury” in Tasmania and
WINGED WORDS.
“Mummy, Daddy called nurse an angel yesterday. Will she fly?”
“Yes, darling. Very soon?"
“Daily News” in Westralia. Tins co-opera-
tion has made it possible to give the public
for Is. an astounding mass of information,
carefully indexed, and covering almost every
subject of Australian interest. There are
no j[ ess than 384 closely-packed pages, so up
to <}ate that the Ottawa Conference agree-
ment is described and a Who’s Who sup-
plied of the leading cricketers of the
season.
A DEPRIVATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Senator Rae asfced if there was any rule to
prevent smoking, which, he pointed out, would assist
in promoting good feeling among members of the
Chamber. President Lynch ruled the question out
of order.”
What stupid convention debars
These seigneurs of wisdom and weight
From puffing their pipes and cigars
To lighten the gloom of debate,
Or. woodbines or fags, if they please,
Or gaspers? Although I suppose
For gents, of such tonnage as these
There’s something incongruous in those.
Society usages pinch
Large numbers of excellent folk.
Pipe up, democratical Lynch!
Why the deuce shouldn’t Senators smoke?
In days when the Volksraad was Dutch,
Oom Paul and his mates would adjourn
Bi-hourly (like shearers and such)
Their pungent tobacco to burn.
One’s read that at Washington, too,
When iClay and when Webster were It,
It was perfectly proper to chew
And not out of order to spit.
Is this less tlie home of the free.
Where rules of deportment provoke
Hostility? Fiddle-de-dee!
Why shouldn’t our Senators smoke?
Think how the narcotical cloud
Ascending, discussions among,
Would soften asperities loud
And still the intemperate tongue.
How many a feud or a grouch
In that peppery, petulant place
Might be killed with a fill from a pouch
Or choked a weed from a case!
There’s nothing can fellowship clinch
Like this, or diversities cloak.
Enlighten us, amiable Lynch:
Why the deuce shouldn’t Senators smoke?
Would it grate upon nerves, do you think,
Of the elegant, rosewater type,
The scratch of a match and the stink
Of a rank or a spluttering pipe?
Do you fancy that women Avould fret
When their way to the Senate they find?
Well, none has crashed into it yet,
And I doubt, when they do, that they’ll
mind.
And if rancorous ructions it stays,
However precisians may croak,
Oh—spare me ineffable days!—•
Why the shouldn’t Senators smoke?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


YOU’VE WASTED MONEY
in shares and other speculations, and are likely to do so again. Make sure that one of your
investments is safe; be certain of some provision for your dependants should they lose your
support. A good and safe way is to take out a policy with the
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
which has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal
bonuses in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. The
office is solid and progressive. For review of actuary's report see
“Bulletin,” 30/3/’32.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E. J. MOONEY, Managing Director.
P. J. RYAN, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Adams, Resident Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street, Adelaide; P. C. Lock, Resident Secretary,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth; F. J. Smith, Resident Sec.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
Renowned C.P.R. service and cuisine from
Australia to England. Experienced travel-
lers always take the C.P.R. short seaway.
Less Ocean to England
The short St. Lawrence Seaway
saves two days of open ocean
ANADIAN PACIFIC travellers.
V>lhave this advantage. From Mon-
treal or Old Quebec a giant "Empress”
or "Duchess” steamer takes you down
the great St. Lawrence past French-
Canadian picturesque shore lines. Two
days in sheltered waters, only four days
at sea. Steamers include famous "Em-
press of Britain.” Write for details and
illustrated booklets.
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 Georae Street, Sydney. , 32^10
Canadian Pacific
World's greatest travel system
Trains - Steamers Hotels
PERSONAL
ITEMs
Some December birthdays:—
Vic. Premier knight Argyle, 65, Dr. Rivett (Scien-
tific and Industrial Research Council), 47, artist
Jas. Quinn, 62, and knight Jas. D. Connolly (former
Westralian Agent-Gen.), 63, on 4th; Major-Gen.
John Gellibrand (Speck), 60, and Dr. Chas. Anderson
(Australian Museum, Sydney), 55, on sth; Justice
Brennan (Q.), 48, on 6th; knight John M. Higgins
(Bawra), 70, and Bishop Reg. Stephen (formerly
of Newcastle), 72, on 9th; D’Arcy W. Addison
(Speck), 60, on 10th; Bishop Nutter Thomas
(Adel.), 63, on ,11th; Bert S. Roach (pres, of S.
Aus. Public Library), 68, on 12th; etcher John
Shirlow, 63, and Brig.-Gen. H. A. Goddard (Lond.
“Times’s” Australian rep.), 62, on 13th; W. Warren
Kerr (Melb.), 68, qn 15th; Dr. Cecil Purser (Syd.),
70, and artist Elioth Gr,finer, 50, on 16tli; knight
aviator Keith Smith, 42, on 20th; knight Joseph
Carruthers, 75, on 21st; Justice Harvey (N.S.W.),
67, on 22nd; Adelaide’s ex-Lud Mayor Lewis Cohen,
83, on 23rd; author J. 11. M. Abbott, 58, on 26th;
knight G. M. Allard, 66, and Dr. E. E. Anderson
(St. Andrew’s Coll., Syd.), 60, on 28th; knight
Kelso King, 79, on 30th; and Major-Gen. medico-
knight Cuscaden, 75, on 31st.
General Sostoa, the Governor of Spanish
Guinea, who is reported to have been
strangled by a servant at a ball given in
his honor, was Spanish Consul in Melbourne
in 1925-26, and was noted then for his devo-
tion to Terpsichore. He had a fine home at
Sherbrooke, and the dances he gave there
were frequented by the Best People. In
1926, when he was ordered to San Paulo,
Brazil, he booked a dance. appointment for
his first night in his new diocese by cable.
Retired last week, Fred Sparkes, house-
keeper of Parliament House/ Canberra. A
native of Oxfordshire, he came young to
Australia, had been on the Federal Parlia-
mentary staff ever since it was instituted,
and was with the Vic. Parliament for 10
years before that. Fred was well liked by
members of every party, and numoers a
host of Parliamentarians, present and past,
among his friends.
Pelham Francis (“Plum”) Warner, though
a barrister of the Inner Temple, has
lived for cricket ever since he got into
the Rugby School XI. at 15, and rose to
be its captain four years later. He wasn’t
so lucky at Oxford, but his star was to
rise again when he captained Middlesex and
led two English teams in Australia. A
distinguished scholar went down to renew
associations with his old school and lunched
with Bobby Whitelaw, a housemaster of
the period, who was Rupert Brooke’s god-
father. “I sat next to a young fellow
named Warner, who had just got into the
X 1.,” he recounted with a twinkle, “and
after discovering that I had never won any
distinction at games in my own time he
ceased to take the faintest Interest in me.”
P. F. WARNER, manager of the English
cricket team.
That was 43 years ago, and “Plum” has
altered little since. Stead once chided him
for writing about “How We Won the Ashes”
as if he were a field-marshal returning home
after winning a war. No one will dispute
“Plum’s” right to be regarded as an authority
on everything connected with cricket, but it
is a pity he cannot speak or write about it
less pontifically.
D. P. McGuire, writer of some of the
best verse produced by any Australian in
these days, has brought an idea from London.
Revisiting Adelaide, his birthplace (his
father was a former Railway Commissioner),
McGuire arranged to send out a small col-
lection of verse, through Preece’s, just before
Christmas and to give a reading at the pub-
lisher’s on the day the booklet becomes
available. McGuire will, of course, be repre-
sented in the Christmas Bulletin (Dec.
14) by a charming set of verses which will
be found also in the booklet.
H'. L. Archdall, who completed half a cen-
tury in the Queensland civil service the
other day, has been an outstanding police
magistrate. Coming to Queensland in 1880
from England, he had some experience in a
lawyer’s office before entering the service.
From Brisbane he went to Charters Towers
as C.P.S., later becoming P.M. at Thargo-
mindah. In 1916 he returned to Brisbane
after a spell at Rockhampton, and was the
H. L. ARCHDALL, chief police magistrate,
Brisbane.
first to be appointed Chief P.M. A man of
many interests, he was for some time com-
mander of the State Garrison Artillery in
Brisbane and was recommended for a com-
mission in the permanent forces by Sir
George French, then Military Commandant
of Queensland and later of N.S.W., but this
he declined.
Bernard O’Dowd, Vic. Parliamentary
draftsman, who is beyond the retiring age
of 65, is to be retained for a while. Since
he became immersed in interpreting what
politicians mean when they don’t know
exactly what they want, Bernard has been
less fertile in the production of verse. Later
on, perhaps, he will have more time for
letting the poet part of him come upper-
most again.
Dr. Montgomery, Anglican Bishop of
Tasmania from 1899 to 1901, died in Eng-
land on Sunday, collapsing in church after
he had read the service which installed his
son as vicar of a Cheshire parish. The
venerable prelate, Harrovian and Cambridge
man, was 85; he held a London incum-
bency at the time of his Australian appoint-
ment. He wife was a daughter of Dean
Farrar; his later years were mostly spent
in Donegal, Ireland.
D. B. Ferguson, the late Sam McKay’s suc-
cessor as chairman of directors at Sunshine,
Vic., has had 30 years in the haiwester
business. H’e was with 11. V. McKay when
the Ballarat enterprise was started and
helped to introduce the firm’s products to the
Argentine in 1904.
J. P. McCarthy, appointed to the lecturing
staff of Queensland University to fill the
place of Dr. Simonds, promoted to the
Chair of Mathematics, hails from Ipswich,
Queensland’s “holy city.” From the Gram-
mar School there he went to the State
University, and after graduation he was
senior mathematical master at Nudgee
College, going on to Brisbane Grammar
School.
At last a statqe is to be erected in Mel-
bourne to George Iliginbotham, who died
when Chief Justice 40 years ago. His
pupil and admirer, Donald Mackinnon, who
died last Anzac Day, bequeathed £2OOO to
cover the cost. When Higinbotham consoli-
dated the Vic. statutes in 1890 he was
assisted by Mackinnon. The steps of Par-
liament House or the old Treasury will
probably be the site for the Higinbotham
memorial. Mackinnon, a former Minister of
State and president of the Vic. Cricket
Association, left £142,262.
C. M. Gunther, dead in Sydney at 53,
was one of the city’s best-known commercial
men. A son of Archdeacon Gunther, for
many years incumbent of St. John’s, Parra-
matta, he was educated at The King’s School,
passing into the service of the Colonial
Sugar Co. His duties took him at various
times to Fiji, Adelaide and Brisbane, and for
several years he managed the Condon mill
on the Tweed River (N.S.W.). In 1917
he left the C.S.R. and at the time of his
death was general manager of R. W.
Cameron and Co., of Sydney.
Web Gilbert and Bertram Mackennal,
the sculptors of the Light Horse Mem-
orial unveiled by W. M. Hughes at
Port Said the other day, are dead, but the
model for the two horses which figure in
the group may still be seen with a rider up
on Alexandra-avenue, Melbourne, pretty well
every morning. Ben is a 10-year-old bay.
Gilbert selected him for his model from 400
others, after half a dozen vets, had gone
over him and declared him as near a perfect
specimen of a charger it was possible to get.
He was trained to roll over like a wounded
horse and to stand with a foreleg uplifted,
and posed for hours in the sculptor’s Fitzroy
studio. He has since returned to an active
life in the riding school of Colonel W. Smith,
Ivavanagh-street, South Melbourne.
In the late Charles Clubbe Sydney has
lost another veteran of the medical profes-
sion, and the' hospitals a helper who never
spared himself. Clubbe was born in
Buckinghamshire in 1854, and went from
Uppingham School to St. Bartholomew’s
Hospital; he settled in Sydney in 1883. He
was honorary surgeon to the Prince Alfred
for 12 years and to the Royal Alex-
andra Hospital for 36 years, and he had
been president of the latter since 1904. He
also lectured on clinical surgery at Sydney
Uni. Knighthood came his way five years
ago. Like most prominent surgeons lie had
had his experience of active war work, too,
and in this respect he antedated all his
contemporaries; his work was done in Natal
during the Zulu war of 1879, before he
came to Australia.
Alex. Burnard, of Adelaide, has earned the
rare Doctor of Music degree at 32, with an
elaborate setting of Milton’s “L’Allegro’’
for orchestra and double chorus; Profs.
Buck, of London, and Harold Davies, of
Adelaide, as co-examiners, gave it high
praise. S. Aus. had only two Mus. Docs,
previously, the said Davie's and Ruby Davy,
who qualified in 191 S.
Alfred Greenaway’s death in Samara!
deprives Papua of one of the last of its
old hands; as one of a shipwrecked crew
he cast up there 43 years ago. Kentish-
born, he had taken to the sea early; trader/
recruiter and planter, he did fairly well in
later years. Outside of a picture show he had
seen few of the alleged amenities of civili-
sation for close on half a century. Tele-
phones he regarded as a device of the Evil
One, and never used one, though many
attempts were made to inveigle him.
Suburban Adelaide is proud of its S.A.
Operatic Society. Financed by Adelaide
DAVID
WATERHOUSE,
chairman of Adelaide’s
Operatic Society.
citizens, who have
formed themselves
into a non-profit-
taking co. for the
purpose, the so-
ciety goes out after
four things: to
give local musi-
cians a chance to
tootle or sing
(Seymour P a n k
has long been its
musical director) ;
to encourage local
composers; to en-
tertain the public
(a large slice of
Adelaide has no
time for American
“pictures”) ; and
to give local chari-
ties a lift. For
months past the
co. has been work-
ing on “The Moon
Dream,” written
by two S.A. auth-
ors, and, as Lady
Hore - Ruthven is
taking a very per-
sonal interest in
the production,
something more
than ordinary suc-
cess is expected.
David Waterhouse,
one of Adelaide’s
public-spirited law-
yers, is chairman
of the co. which
looks after the
business side of the
annual outbreak,
and has been the
pilot of the society for years.
Arnold Moulden, who goes into Adelaide
City Council, is the youthful head of an
historic legal firm. His grandfather, J. E.
Moulden, founded it. J.E.’s son, 8.A., was
once Attorney-General of S.A., and his son
Frank, who died this year, was Mayor of
the city more than once. (He married the
widow of Winthrop Hackett, of' Perth.)
Arnold’s father stuck to the office while the
others were on public duty; Arnold himself
shares the family ambitions.
E. S. Lucas, who died in Rockhampton
(Q.) recently at the ripe old age of 88, was
for many years ohe of the town’s leading
business figures. He spent a lot of money
in the endeavor to find another Mt. Morgan.
Horticulture was his hobby, and he was
chiefly responsible for introducing mango
culture on a large scale to the Rockhamp-
ton district, importing at his own expense
many varieties from India. A Londoner
born, he landed in Queensland in 1862.
R. M. Camp-
bell, Vic.’s latest
Rhodes scholar,
makes the
eleventh turned
out by Scotcli
College since Dr.
Littlejohn took
charge in 1904.
An Aberdeenshire
man, Dr. Little-
john came to
“Scotch” fr o m
Nelson College,
Maoriland, where
he had spent four
years, first as
maths, master
and later as
principal. He is
a member of the
Council and the
Faculty of Edu-
cation at Mel-
bourne Uni. Of
his two sons —
both served with
distinction dur-
ing the World
War —the elder,
C. W. B„ himself
a Rhodes scholar,
twice helped Ox-
ford to win the
boat race. N. S.
Wales also has
one of Dr. Little-
DR. LITTLEJOHN ,
of “Scotch,” which has
produced H Rhodes
scholars in 18 years.
john’s pupils among its Rhodes scholars.
There is little to be learned from refer-
ence books about Daniel Buckley, who
succeeds .Tames McNeill as Governor-
General of (he Irish Free State, except that
he was Sinn Fein M.P. for North Kildare
from 1918 to 1922, and after that a member
of the Dail Eireann for a brief period.
Following the Sinn Fein rule he never took
his seat at Westminster. After the Dublin
rebellion of 1016 lie was arrested, deported
and amnestied. He is a retired shopkeeper.
H. R. Carter, who has just retired from
the management of the Atlas Insurance Co.
in Brisbane (he is to go on the board),
joined the company 40 years ago and had
been manager for 17 years. A keen militia-
man since boyhood, he saw active service as
a captain with the sth Queensland Imperial
Bushmen in the Boer War. In the World
War he was second in command of the 15th
Battalion.
Sir James Crawford Maxwell, late Gov-
ernor of Northern Rhodesia, who died on
the Orient liner Oronsay while on his way
to Australia, spent most of his 63 years in
Africa, beginning as a district medical officer
at Sierra Leone. Going steadily up the
ladder he was appointed to Northern Rho-
desia in 1927, retiring a few months ago.
Ilis brother and sister live at Ballarat, where
the former is engineer of the Electric Supply
Co.
W. S. Crockett, who died at Lake Car-
gelligo (N.S.W.) at 72, was a Boer War
veteran, despite a crippled arm. Baden-
Powell gave Crockett his charger at the
close of the war, and a gold cigarette-case
presented to him by Buller was always a
prized possession. Crockett, the Scottish
novelist, was an uncle.
Thousands of students who have sat for
the Melbourne Uni. public examinations at
the Exhibition Building, Carlton, in the last
20 years or so learned with genuine regret
of the passing of Heber Green, D.Sc., who
had been supervisor. From 1899 Green was
on the teaching staff of the chemistry school
of the ’Varsity and had become the senior
member.
“R.C.”: H. W. Lee (B. 9/11/’32) left as
C.O. of the 9th Battalion A.I.F. Inciden-
tally, the 9th Battalion was chosen out of
the First Division to lead the attack deliv-
ered on April 25, 1915, and its efficiency was
mainly due to the training in Egypt under
the late Colonel.
In the “Australian Year-Book” just pub-
lished you get for Is. all the information
that can be closely packed into 384 pages
—official, Governmental, sporting, biographi-
cal, statistical, financial, geographical, legal,
ecclesiastical. It is tbe result of the
co-operation of half a dozen groups of news-
papers, one in each State, and every
Australian who wants to be reasonably well-
informed about his country should buy it.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooth and Cos. (Sydney)
, Dividends -s
Net Old. Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept. Profits. (10 p.c.) (10 p.c.) serves. serves.
1922.. 235,175
1923.. 293,373 170,000 55,000 68,373 261,960
1924.. 311,706 171,718 55,000 54,988 346,948
1925.. 367,650 277,647 953 89,050 435,993
1926.. 440,229 310,602 196 129,431 565,429
Assets written up, £736,975 .. 1,302,404
Reserves capitalised, £776,975 .. 525,429
(11} p.c.)
1927.. 509,085 398,206 3 110,876 636,305
(12i p.c.)
1928.. 590,134 485,022
Assets written up, £485,622, and that
amount capitalised .. . . 740,817
1929.. 634,054 539,860
(11} P.c.)
1930.. 086,392 632,317
1931.. 480,829 £49,648 1 24,181 913,267
Employees Fund, £7OOO )
1932.. 467,474 4 49,648 I 8 826 922 ,093
Employees lutid, 6 9000 j
The big brewing concerns have come
through the last few. troublesome years
with less visible damage than most
other traders. During .the three years
to the close of accounts in 1929, Tooths
scattered £1,262,597 of ’ bonus scrip, put out
1,250,000 paids in connection with the pur-
chase of Resells’ business, raising paid capi-
tal to £5,620,598, and lifted the div. from 10
p.c. to 121 p.c. The rate has since dropped
to 8 p.c.; but the gift issues just referred
to make 8 p.c. worth 11.2 p.c. on a)l but
the £1,250,000 of scrip issued to Resells.
Still, prices for the actively-traded pound
shares have fluctuated over a wide range. The
figure fell steadily from 51s. in Nov., ’29,
to 17s. 9d. following the taxation proposals
of the Premiers’ Conference last year. As
political and other events, including the
drop in interest rates, made the out-
look less obscure, the price recovered, reach-
ing 375. Id. last month. It eased to 365. 3d.
following publication of the accounts, which
disclosed a further shrinkage of £13,355 in
net earnings. The return at 365. 3d. is 4.4
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis, and the visible
backing 235. 3d. in net tangibles, of which
18s. was represented by fixed assets and
the balance by more or less liquids.
There has been a sharp contraction of turn-
over, of course, due mainly to lighter spend-
ing, unemployment and the fall in the rental
value of hotel properties. Still, the rise
iu the price of spirits has done the beer
foundries no harm, and there is no price-
cutting in the trade, nine-tenths of which in
X. S. Wales is in the hands of Tooths and
Tooheys. After providing for depreciation
and trade contingencies, Tooths’ gross earn-
ings slipped £168,270 last year:—
Profit on Management, Exes.
Brewings, Wages, p.c. Balance
Interest, etc. Excise, etc. Gross. of Profit.
1915.. £652,360 £367,566 56.3 £284,794
1920.. 670,783 499,594 74.4 171,187
1925.. 862,934 495,284 57.4 367,650
1927.. 1,284,738 775,653 60.3 509,085
1928.. 1,387,934 797,800 57.3 590,134
1929.. 1,482,345 848,291 57.2 634,054
1930.. 1.593,798 '907,406 56.9 686,392
1931.. 1,260,615 779,786 61.9 480,829
1932.. 1.092,345 624,871 57.3 467,474
Exes, were reduced by £154,915, notwith-
standing the growth in taxation, leaving the
net result at 8.3 p.c. on capital as against
8.5, 12.2, 14.7, 15.2, 13.1 and 14.1 p.c. back
to 1926. Though earnings may have reached
their lowest level, it is doubtful whether
an early lift in the div. may be anticipated.
During the year £115,918 net was added
to the book value of fixed assets, which sug-
gests that the co. is still buying up hotel
properties:—•
1925. 1031. 1932.
Assets: —■
Breweries, etc... £2,426,241 £4,945,570 £5,061,488
Book debts .. 1,172,258 1,430,565. 1,211,276
Stock . . . . 409,451 347,896 235,985
Liquid . . . . 182,522 625,776 802,840
£4,190,472 £7,349,897 £7,311,589
Liabilities.. .. 424,740 510,550 463,701
Net assets .. £3,765,732 £6,839,257 £6,847,888
Thus to finance the year’s outlay, knock
£46,849 off the debt and add £177,064 to
liquids, book debts were reduced by £219,289
and stocks by £111,911. The more or less
liquid surplus (£1,786,400, including stocks)
slipped £107,287. due to expenditure .on
breweries, etc. The book value of net assets
was £8631 stronger than at the previous
balance.
Associated Newspapers (Sydney)
, Dividends
Net Pref. Towards
Sept., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill, etc., “Guardian,” £577,470 .. 577,470
Preliminary exes., £15,073 .. .. 592,543
1930.. 102,453 95,312 Nil 7,141 585,402
Added preliminary exes., £7B .. .. 585,480
4} p.c.
1931.. 66,631 66,914 Nil
7} p.c.
.1932.. 119,689 106,697* Nil 12,992 572,771
"After deducting statutory cut (22} p.c.) and special
tax (2s. in £) on property.
After wadding the interests of Sun News-
papers, Ltd., and S. Bennett, Ltd., by a
liberal distribution of its own paper, this
Associated co. bought the daily and Sunday
“Guardian” from Smith’s Newspapers for
£575,000 (£400,000 in prefs. and the balance
dash) ; and paid capital stood at £3,593,860
i a 1,489,619 7 p.c. cum. prefs. and 2.104.241
iirds. in Sept., ’32. A year earlier the com-
bined figures of the w'hole group disclosed
net tangibles with a book value of £1.665.196,
including a plant reserve of £846,882. It is
not surprising, therefore, that it has been
a struggle to keep up payments to the prefs.
To protect the earnings of the chief con-
tributors to the pool (the daily and Sunday
“‘Sun”), publication of the “Guardian” (both
editions), the “Telegraph Pictorial” and,
after changes on the board and some recrim-
inations, of the “Evening News,” too, was
discontinued. But the “Daily Telegraph”
was afterwards revived.
Associated’s own p. and 1. figures com-
pare as follows: —
1930. 1931. 1932.
From subsidiaries .. £115,665 £103,908* £133,015
Exes.- 13,212 37,277 13,326
Net £102,453 £66,631- £119,689
*After deducting loss on “Guardian,” £15,777.
In ’3l the trading loss on the “Guardian”
was £15,777; so, really, an extra £13,330 was
received in divs. last year. Administrative
charges (£12,261) were £5409 lighter; but
the tax bill (£10,065) called for £1065 more
than had been reserved for the purpose, and
no specific provision was made to meet the
next bill when it arrives. The £119,689 of
profit claimed (up £53,058) is, therefore, sub-
ject to taxation. After handing the prefs.
their reduced div., in'cluding £31,640 in
respect of the previous term, £12,992 of the
year’s net takings remained. The statutory
cut (224 p.c.) and a further deduction of
2s. in the £ on account of the special tax
on income from property have reduced the
pref. div. to 4.88 p.c. (equal to £72,693) on
capital as it stood at the close of accounts.
The balance (£46,996) of the year’s net
earnings was a shade over 2.2 p.c. on ord.
capital. When the board considers the time
ripe, the capital account is to be recon-
structed.
The curtain has been drawn over the sub-
sidiaries’ figures, though the co.’s articles,
as altered in Feb., 1931, provide that an
aggregate balance-sheet: of the subsidiaries
shall be laid before shareholders. Share-
holders’ prospects depend mainly upon the
earnings of the daily and Sunday “Sun.”
Together they netted £140,086 in 1931; for
the last term the daily showed “a somewhat
larger profit.” But the “Telegraph” remains
a lame duck. The . Bennett co., whose
premises and plant are a drag, showed a
loss of £53,875 in 1931. The recent demise
of the “World,” after it had passed into the
control of new interests, has removed a
competitor; many are wondering at what
cost, if any, to Associated.
At 16s. Id. the ’ prefs. return 6 p.c. on a
4.8 p.c. div. basis. The market speculates in
the ords. at 4s. 4d. It thus values the
entire undertaking at £1,654,000, or approxi-
mately £II,OOO less than its net tangible
book value of a year ago.
The position so far as Associated’s own
accounts show it compares as follows:
1930. 1931. 1932.
Preference .. £1,483,999 £1,489,066 £1,489,619
Ordinary .. 2,093,001 2,103,136 2,104,241
Sundry creditors.. 148,927 197,367 103,798
Smith’s Newspapers 140,000 105,000 73,500
Shares in other cos. 3,135,930 3,152,160 3,153,813
Stocks . . . . 41,500 40,337 24,635
Sundry debtors .. 101,530 124,925 61,366
Equipment .. 1,564 384 113
Thus the year’s surplus earnings, a reduc-
tion of £63,559 in debtors’ balances and of
£15,702 in stocks enabled the board to reduce
the amount coming to sundry creditors by
£93,569, and to pay a further £31,500 to
Smith’s on account of the “Guardian.” The
balance of the “Guardian” account (£73,500)
is payable over the next 34 years. The year’s
improvement in the financial position was
£45,537; still, outside liabilities exceeded
more or less liquids by £91,184 when the
books closed. Much depends upon the posi-
tion of the subsidiaries.
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Cos.
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
Sot., £ £ £ £
2 >22.. 167,119 Nil 43,353 1,354,281
1923. 237,131 10 p.c.= 128,919 70,412 1,392,081
Transferred to Superannuation Fund,
£22,000.. 1,370.081
1924. . 241,577 10 p.c.= 128,919 51,240 1,431,499
1925. 10 .. ~ 128,919 58,167 1,481,538
Written off mine property, £200,000.. 1,281,538
1926.. 220,487 11} p.e.= 145,034 64,670 1,292,321
1927.. 246,359 11} „ ~ 145,034 53,583 1,340,063
1928.. 261,516 11} „ ~145,034 61,938 1,394,607
1929.. 435,752 13} „ ~ 177,265 111,624 1,541,470
1930.. 183,543 18} ~,,241,724 58,354 1,424,935
1931.. 101,130 71 ~.,103,210 29,810 1,393,045
1932.. 88,511 2} „ „ 38,750 43,913 1,398,893
The co. had no difficulty in selling a bigger
output, produced at low’er cost, and it re-
ceived a slightly better return from its fer-
tiliser investments, which figure largely in
the £1,450,170 at which shares in other cos.
appear. Nevertheless, net earnings for the
12 months covered by the latest accounts
slipped £12,619. That was because elec-
trolytic averaged only £3B 3s. Id. in London,
where most of the metal is sold, as against
£44 2s. 2d., £7O 15s. 9d. and £B3 Is. 4d. for
the three preceding terms. Exchange pro-
vided whatever profit there was from min-
ing. For most of the term sterling was
worth £125 p.c. in Australian currency as
against £l3O for most of the preceding year.
While gross earnings (£582,717) slipped
£4898, exes. (£494,824) advanced £8339. Of
the £87,893 that remained, £43,913, or
£14,103 more than in the previous year, was
charged to development and depreciation,
shown as written off in the table. So Is. was
knocked off the div., leaving it at 6d. per
share, and free reserves benefited by £SB4S.
A quickening of production and large
savings have followed completion of the
North Lyell tunnel and the refinery at
Queenstown, where other additions have also
been made to the plant. The outturn has
moved like this; —
Crudes , Assay ,
Tons. Copper. Silver. Gold.
1929.. 173,268 4.95 p.c. 0.970 z. 0.0190 z.
1930.. 244,535 4.41 „ 0.91 „ 0.020
1931.. 292,830 3.77 „ 0.68 „ o.olß*’
1932.. 362,591 3.35 „ 0.54 „ 0.019*,
Thus an extra 69,761 tons of crudes were
mined last year. The average cost was
13.685. as against 15.055. in the previous
year and 18.81 s. in ’29. The drop in the
grade was due to the inclusion of more
stone from the low-grade silicious deposits
in the Royal Tharsis and Grown Lyell
leases, treatment of which has been made
possible by the reduction of costs.
The capacity of the mill is now' 1000
tons per day, and that of the refinery 13,000
tons per annum. The grade of the concen-
trate. was 22.07 p.c. compared with 20.51
p.c. in 1931, while the recovery was prac-
tically unchanged at 94.23 p.c. Thus the
output of blister and the metal reached
record figures:—
1928. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Blister produced
(tons) . . . . 7,126 9,898 10,115 11,059
Contents: —
Copper (tons) .. • 7,060 9,817 10,033 10,956
Silver (oz.) . . 121,456 187,489 155,976 162,858
Gold (oz.) . . 2,360 3,631 3,834 4,769
The cost of mining and treating the year's
ore (£473,893) was £43 ss. Id. per ton of
copper produced as against £45 6s. Bd.,
£46 10s. and £4B 6s. for the three preced-
ing years. Still larger tonnages are aimed
at, and further reduction of costs can be
expected. The low-grade deposits already
referred to are less expensive to mine and
treat than those in the North Lyell and
Comstock mines.
Finances are comfortable enough:—
1925. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Metals .. £212,555 £280,799 £238,363 £161,290
Book debts .. 240,486 52,335 34,825 26,586
Stocks, etc... 391,269 137,579 170,335 147,938
Cash, etc. . . 266,685 11,435 10,000 71,118
£1,110,986 £482,148 £453,523 £406,932
Liabilities . . 160,625 61,539 80,129 61,247
Surplus . . £950.361 £420,609 £373,394 £345,685
Copper stocks were taken in at £3O per ton.
The London price was £37 {- £46 ss. in
Australian currency) last week-end. The
mine, etc., figures at £579,504, and railways
hydro-electric and other plant at £573,532.
Though the Copper Exporters’ Trust
broke down, following the action of the
U.S.A. in placing a duty of 4 cents per
pound on the red metal, the price of elec-
trolytic has steadily strengthened since July,
when it was £29 10s. per ton. Still, the
immediate outlook is uncertain. The market
prices Lyell’s pound shares at 6d., at
which figure the return would be 6.5 p.c. on
a Is. 6d. distribution. The future depends
upon the price of fhe meal, exchange and
developments in the fertiliser industry.
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1922.. 103,948 124 p.c. = 91,595 12,353 181,374
1923.. 135,395 13} ~ „ 100,754 34,641 216,015
1924.. 139,941 13} „ „ 108,917 31,024 247,039
Premiums on new shares, £17,084 .. 264,123
1925.. 132,639 13} p.c. = 122,782 9,857 273,980
Premiums on new shares, £17,403.. 291,383
1926.. 139,796 13} p.c. = 125,168 14,628 306,011
Shares in subsidiaries written up,
£455,492 761,503
Reserves capitalised, £455,492 .. 306,011
1927.. 159,103 11} p.c. = 132,642 26,461 332,472
1928 . . .154,084 10 „ ~ 139,578 14,506 346,978
Share premiums, £17,308 .. .. 364,286
1929.. 160,637 10 p.c. =
Share premiums, £SO .. .. 383,064
1930.. 118,347 7} p.c. = 107,263 11,084 394,148
1931.. 91,554 6} „ „ 89,386 2,168 396,316
1932.. 171,066 Bf. „ ~ 125,140 45,926 442,242
This is : a holding co. At Oct. 31 it had
£2,169,492 invested in a string of jam, fruit-
canning and -preserving subsidiaries; the
total included £207,691 coming to creditors,
£199,590 of it due to associated cos. The
subsidiaries are scattered all over the Com-
monwealth and Maoriland, and extend to
England and S. Africa as well. But the
curtain is kept drawn over their figures,
so the outsider knows little of the real posi-
tion.
A couple of years ago slump made it
unprofitable to export fruit from Australia,
and there was a glut in the local market.
Exchange provided a little relief, but Gov-
ernment-financed factories were selling their
outputs at less than cost; also, the debts
question had become perplexing. Thus over
the two years to the close of accounts in
1931 there was a contraction of 59.1 p.c. in
this holding co.’s visible net returns from
local investments. Over the sdme period,
income from abroad shrank 20 p.c.:—
1929. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Net income:—
Australian. . £115,818 £71,481 £55,674 £135,071
Other sources 44,819 46,866 35,880 35,995
Total .. £160,637 £118,347 £91,554 £171,066
Last year the subsidiaries’ experience in
respect of bad debts was reported to be
almost normal, and the position of these
cos. is undoubted, the chairman says. Also,
there was marked improvement in the export
trade, especially with Asia. The net result
was £79,512 better, reaching 11.9 p.c. on
capital compared with 6*4, 8.3, 11.3 and 11
p.c. back to 1928. An extra 21 p.c. was dis-
tributed, making 8| p.c. for the year.
To help finance the growth of the various
undertakings, including the purchase of the
Stanmore Preserving Cos., Sydney, of the
Government canning factory in Queensland,
of Kirkpatrick and Cos., Maoriland, and the
erection of additional factories in the
Dominion and S. Africa, the holding co.
gathered £368,881 of fresh capital during
the decade to the close of. accounts in 1929.
Meanwhile the div., which had been lifted
from 12| to 13} p.c., dropped back to 10
p.c., following distribution of £455,492 of
bonus scrip (one for two). The gift, which
was provided from inner reserves, raised paid
capital to the present £1,430,173.
On the market the price of the pound
shares fell from 395. in 192 S to 17s. lOd. a
little over a year ago, since when it advanced
steadily to 395. 4d.; then it eased to 385.,
following the chairman’s announcement that
the assets of the subsidiaries, if generously
valued, would not equal 395. 4d. a share.
The return at 38s. is 4.6 p.c. on an 8} p.c.
div. basis, or 5.2 p.c. should the distribution
be lifted to 10 p.c.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.)
f Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. (7 p.c.) Ordinary. serves, serves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
1922.. 67,816 10,904 15 p.c.=38,165 18,747 61,193
1923.. 73,318 10,500 15 „ „ 38,165 24,653 85,846
Hidden reserves disclosed .. 24,149 109,995
Reserves capitalised, £69,608 .. 40 387
1924.. 74,548 10,500 15 p.c.=48,23C 15,854 56*241
1926.. 69,683 10,500 12},, „ 40,505 8,578 64 819
1926.. 63,117 10,500 12},, „ 40,505 12,112 76’931
1927.. 72,026 10,500 16},, „ 52,656 8,869 85*800
1928.. 60,476 10,500 13},, „ 44,555 5,421 91 221
1929.. 65,213 10,500 13},, „ 44,555 10,158 101,379
1930. . 46,400 10,500 10 ~ ~32,404 3,496 104,875
Loss.
1931.. 24,622 7,471 21 „ „ 8,101
Profit.
1932.. 18,506 10,500 Nil 8,006 72,687
Though the quick development of Myers,
next door, and of others livened competition,
it brought more people into the city; and
while the importing and borrowing boom
lasted, the old-established drapery busine
of Buckley and Nunn expanded along w ,
the rest. Indeed, during the decade to t ,
close of accounts in 1930, the ords. average
13.1 p.c., sweetened with £133,211 of
scrip; extensions to premises and P ia
added £295,217 net to the book value or
fixed assets, while the net growth m _ t i
outside debt was £93,093; surplus earnings
provided the balance.
Then slump, exchange, the tariff an
primage made a number of imported Hues
unprofitable. Moreover, imports had to oe
ordered some distance ahead ; and that spelt
trouble on a falling market. The result was
that imports were dropped wherever possible ,
a year ago the co. was buying 70 p.c. ot its
merchandise locally, as against a former
p.c. Nevertheless a loss of £24,622 showed
up in 1931; it was the first thing of its
kind the co. had experienced since the col-
lapse of trade following the bank crashes
, of the early ’nineties. But prices steadied,
stocks were less troublesome, and a profit of
£18.506 was recorded for the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts. It - w r as
earned mostly during the second half of the
term. After paying the pref. div. enough
remained to show' 21 p.c. on ord. capital.
So the market prices the pound ords. at
par as against 18s. 4d. a year ago. _ At
24s. 3d. the prefs. return 5.7 p.c. They
are covered by £4 Is. in net tangibles; ditto
ords., 24s. 5d.
Over the last four years the book value
of stocks has been reduced by £113,183. of
which £22,383 was in respect of the last
term:— -
1921. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Orel, capital. . £254,433 £324,041 £324,041 £324,041
Pref. capital.. 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Liabilities .. 172,199 268,673 260,945 252,372
Premises, etc. 165,109 411,044 411,063 416,149
Plant,, etc. .. 34,234 83,465 81,758 83,65a
Book debts .. 105,415 77,368 59,582 55,938
Stock.. .. 279,151 304,582 249,’021 226,638
Cash . . . . 56,876 5,323 16,046 34,004
During the year £12,994 of deposits (now
£199,398) were repaid, £4421 was added to
the amount coming to sundry creditors
(£24,574), while the cash holding was
strengthened by £17,958. Altogether, the
more or less liquid surplus (£64,208, includ-
ing stocks) was £504 stronger than at the
previous balance.
Brisbane Permanent Building
Dividends and To Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividend Tax. serves. Reserves.
£ . £ £ £
1922.. 22,913 8 p.c. = 16,956 5,957 56,059
Share premium, £1093 .. .. 57,152
1923.. 23,068 8 p.c. = 17,231 . 5,837 62,989
1924.. 31,455 10 „ „ 25,483 5,972 68,961
1925.. 38,342 9 „ ,, 25.607 12,735 81,696
1926.. 36,230 9 „ ., 27,000 9,230 90,926
1927.. 44,950 10 „ „ 33,492 11,458 102,384
1928.. 48,214 10 ,, ,, 35,974 12,240 114,624
1929.. 47,720 10 „ „ 39,909 7,811 122,435
1930.. 49,737 10 „ „ 40,000 9,737 132,172
1931.. 35,383 7 „ „ 28,000 } „ g „ 136 555
Contingency reserve, £3000 j ’ ’
Q’land Deposit Bank absorbed on share-
for-share basis; reserves written off.
Loss on Govt, stocks, £17,300 . . 119,255
1932.. 30,083 5 p.c. = . 27,359 2,724 121,979
Following the rush of withdrawals a year ago
this Permanent co. absorbed the Queensland
Deposit Bank. Later it also took over most
of the assets and liabilities of the Federal
Deposit Co., which had gone into liquida-
tion, The Queensland D.B.’s business was
bought for £82,600 in scrip, being the
amount of its paid capital. The surplus
was used to meet contingencies and further
strengthen the inner reserves. Exactly what
this surplus amounted to has not been men-
tioned, but net tangibles exceeded the
£82 600 of capital by £38,828 at Sept. 30,
1930.
In March last £622,598 worth of selected
mortgages, etc. —the etcetera included
premises, valued at £33,500 —together with
£422,598 of deposit stock, payable over the
next five years, were bought from the liqui-
dators of the Federal co. for £200,000 in
scrip. Arrangements have thus been made
for payment of the Federal’s depositors in
full, and it is expected that its shareholders
will finally get a few shillings more than
the face value of their scrip.
All this added £275,569 to the Perma-
nent’s paid capital (£675,569 at Aug. 31),
and was mainly responsible for the growth
of £469,652 in deposits, etc., £51,000 in
the book value of premises, £633,923 in
advances and £52,983 in cash and public
securities:—
1919. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £101,433 £400,000 £400,000 £675,569
Deposits, etc. 272,139 972,921 910,935 1,380,587
Premises .. 10,741 25,900 26,500 77,500
Advances, etc. 335,277 1,144,960 1,092,3231,726,246
Public securities
and cash . . 65,750 364,233 354,467 407,450
Thus, when the books last closed, the co.
was holding only 34s. 7d. of the public’s
money for every pound of its own. Depositors
and others could see £29 10s. 3d. of every
£100 coming to them in cash (£380,754)
and Government securities £26,696). To
represent the other £973,137 there were
advances and premises, together totalling
£1,803,746. That is to say, over 46 p.c. of
book values could disappear before depositors’
money would be in danger.
Owing chiefly to interest reduction legis-
lation, the year’s gross earnings were only
£133 better' at £104,314, notwithstanding
the larger volume of business on the books.
Exes. (£74,231, including some non-recur-
ring charges) were £5083 heavier, leaving
the net result at 5.4. p.c. on average capital
as against 8.8, 12.4, 11.9, and 13.4 p.c.
back to 1928. So a couple of points were
knocked off the div., reducing it to 5 p.c.,
making the average 8.8. p.c. over the last
decade. Owing to the withdrawals early in
the term, most of the Government securi-
ties were sold; the loss thereon (£17,300)
was charged against reserves.
Though the fall in values has narrowed
security margins, no foreclosures figure in
the co.’s accounts. Earnings, however, arc
likely to remain moderate until some relief
is gained from the burden of taxation,
including the special impost of 2s. in the
£ on income from property.
The market prices the pound shares at
par or a shade over. The book value of
the cover is 23s. 7d. in net tangibles. The
1933 deposit stock (3 p.c.) is selling at
19s. 6d.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 16.)


iiiij nil iijiiiiiiiHii
insssii'Sin.
I ,( !< I’ *
» ■ ■ <
* 1 <1
eiu
m jl
SlvTi
imii
use
m
m
r.*\\
/
uu3>,;
i
m
WM
TJW r- »
&
m
k
m
WftOW.
WiMT
CATERPILLAR
TRACTION
TREAD
•
ARMOURED
WALL
l. oo ro
’UUAI KtPNI lilV
Standard High-Grade
MOTOR TYRE
OW to minimise that main cause
nof tyre destruction—the terrific
heat generated by road friction —is a
problem at last mastered in the new
design Barnet Glass Tyre, . , , Heat is
reduced by a new scientific balance be-
tween the stretch of rubber and cords
... . Heat is dissipated by the fan-blade
action of the buttressed side walls.
These stout buttresses also provide an
effective armour for the casing, pro-
tecting it against curb cutting and
abrasion and preventing distortion
. * . . The new Caterpillar Traction
Tread maintains positive road grip
at all angles, ensures direct driving
without slip and perfect control when
accelerating or braking
Barnet Glass
Tyres
tor Endurance


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Apvt.
* * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * :ls *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
MINES AND FIELDS EXAMINED. Reports
furnished. Write to William Bradford, late special
Examiner of Mines for Victorian Government.
Address William Bradford, Ballarat East.— Adyt.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY"
DECEMBER ISSUE READY
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 3.
War Debts and the Investor.
Are Stocks Overvalued?
The Market Outlook.
Capital Reconstructions.
Rights of Pref. Shareholders.
These and many other questions of
vital interest to investors will be
discussed in the December issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,'
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
mm
Warn
m
m
4
to
ge
Olg
r e r
s or
Pfj
•tti
e c a
Jr e
*ic
*-8§
c to r
Ois
Gy
took St,r o
On
9v
°ir
£ too
°Po
07q
OOq
u *hl
«e r .
Would your income cease
on the death of some man?
THIS photograph, and the words under it, should make
men think. Both appeared in the daily press recently,
and must have struck many people as illustrating, in
perhaps a sensational way, the great worth of life assurance.
This man’s employers set down his value to them at £lOO,OOO
and have insured him accordingly. Is there not, in this, a hint
to every company that it should insure the lives of its principal
executives so that there may be available, on their death,
money with which to break in successors ? Should not every
partnership carry a policy of joint insurance that, when death
claims one partner, will compensate the remaining partner for
his loss?
Such policies are numerous, but not as numerous as they should
be. Only a comparatively few men have learned how great is
the comfort and security that such policies provide.
Should not every wife ask herself the money value of her
husband and see that it is covered by an A.M.P. policy? If
he were to die, what sum, when invested, would return the
income he now provides for his family?
In practically every corner of Australia there is an A.M.P.
officer, who will be glad to explain the relatively little cost of
such A.M.P. policies. Cost is the wrong word. Life assurance
is an investment and not an expense.
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
F. F. McBRYDE, C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A..
Assistant General Manager. Actuary.
Branch Offices in Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
AMP
Ossets .£86,600,000.
Gives best possible contract.
Mount Isa
Mt. Isa’s treatment plant started opera-
tions in June, 1931. It was found that 5000
tons of silver-lead bullion per month was
beyond capacity ; so additions were made, and,
judging by recent figures, the original objec-
tive of 60,000 tons per annum is in sight.
Ore mined for the year to June 30 totalled
454,604 dry tons, of which 453,997 were
milled. The latter assayed lead, 10.7 p.c.;
silver, 5.50 z. per ton; zinc, 4.1 p.c. The
production of concentrates was 87,500 tons,
assaying lead, 44.4 p.c. ; silver, 21.90 z. per
ton ;' zinc, 5.5 p.c. From these concentrates
the smelter produced 35,008 tons of bullion
assaying 99.5 p.c. lead, and 52.730 z. silver
per ton. The bullion was treated at the
Britannia Lead Refinery, built for the pur-
pose on the Thames. Mill returns show' the
recoveries from concentrates to have been
approximately 80 p.c. of the lead and 77
p.c. of the silver, whilst the overall recovery
from 453,997 tons of ore to 35,00 S tons of
bullion appears to have been 77.85 p.c. of
the lead and 80.27 p.c. of the silver. When
the accounts are presented the reason for
this difference in recoveries may be seen.
The results are satisfactory. Owing to
th(> slump in metal prices—particularly of
zinc—the plant, designed to treat the car-
bonate and sulphide ores separately, had to
be run on a mixture of the two classes of
feed ; some sulphides have to be mined for
use in cintering the carbonate concentrates
prior to smelting. The zinc contained in
the ore now' being treated does not pay for
the cost of recovery at present prices. Mill
recoveries will probably improve gradually.
Still, w'ith the price of lead hanging just
under £l2 per ton, and with silver refusing
to move off the Is. 6d. mark, output, w'ith
reasonable recovery, appears to be the im-
portant factor. This is apparently what the
competent and unassuming Kruttschnitt, the
g.m. whom the A. S. and R. Cos. found for
Isa, is going after. The November output
is expected to top the 5000-ton mark, w'hich
means mining and treatment of at least
60,000 tons of ore.
The scale upon which Isa has been
equipped for breaking ore may. be judged
from the fact that there remained in the
shrinkage stopes 84,701 tons of stone broken
and ready for extraction at June 30. This
was equal to six weeks’ requirements with
milling operations at their top. Ore
reserves were put at 19,027,000 tons; this
after eliminating 11,522,000 tons of sul-
phides averaging lead, 4,8 p.c.; silver, 2.60 z.
per ton; zinc, 6.6 p.c. Although it would
be interesting to know what prices lead,
silver and zinc must reach before the ore
now' eliminated can be taken back into re-
serves, Isa apparently has over 25 years’ ore
in sight, provided the metal markets do not
eliminate any more of it.
Return Creek dredge, Mt. Garnet (Q.),
has closed down again. Bouldery wash,
patchy values and irregular water supply
are the obstacles. The dredge, which has
a capacity of 75,000 c.y. per month, rarely
treated more than 20,000 yards, averaging
about 0.61 b. t.o.
❖ ❖ sfc
On behalf of southern interests, S. G.
Priest has taken over the Queenslander,
Cecilia and St. Patrick’s on the Pratten
field, Warwick (Q.), and two batteries
are to be erected. These mines were
all producers over 50 years ago. One of
the Cracow' companies has also secured an
option on the Anzac and Better Hole at
Thane’s Creek.
* X
At Taromeo (Q.), the Golden Bird has
opened up 18 leaders, all showing good gold,
and a trial crushing of about 10 tons is to
be put through. The field was discovered
about 16 years ago by P. Ingram, one of a
party of ’possum trappers ; but nothing was
done until he returned to the spot a few
months back.
At Temora (N.S.W.) the Peterson shaft
is down to 114 ft. in ore assaying up to
15|dwt. per ton over a width of 3-Ift. Drill-
ing from the shaft shows a total" width of
41ft. of well-mineralised quartz, assaying
9dwl. It is expected that the footwall por-
tion of the lode will prove to be high grade.
An air compressor and assaying plant are
being installed.
•A syndicate has been formed to unwater
the New Chum at Maldon (Vic). The
shaft, equipped with winding plant, is down
500 ft., and six levels have been driven in
ore up to 20ft. wide. The South German, .
w'hich has a wider reef developed to 1600 ft.,
and was favorably reported upon by Dr.
Frank Stilwell and W. Baragwanath, has
also been taken over. It is intended to
form a co. to w'ork these properties.
On the A 1 property, Woods Point (Vic.),
rich ore, sft. thick, has been met. in a rise
from a crosscut off the main adit level. The
find is believed to be the downward con-
tinuation of a flat-dipping reef, or floor, at
the south end of the mine. If this is so, a
large tonnage of ore will be available. These
quartz floors zigzag across a large diofite
bulge; the gold is irregularly distributed.
*'* * X
At Archdale (Vic.) 31 tons from an indi-
cator reef recently yielded 21oz. of gold.
The find is in the State forest, where rich
alluvial w'as wmrked in the early days. It
was the indicator reefs that gave the fabu-
lously rich yields at Ballarat. The localised
enrichments occurred at the intersections of
flat makes of quartz with a persistent band
of pyritic carbonaceous slate only a few
inches thick.
The Elysian Flat lead at Neilborough
(Vic.) is to be tested by boring. It runs
from the north end of the Bendigo field, and
is fed also from the Whipstick area. It is
170 ft. deep, with w r ash 2ft. to 6ft. thick over -
a w'idth of 100 ft.
There w r as jubilation on the Golden Mile
last week when news came through that
the Privy Council had decided in favor of
the tributors. The cos. had appealed against
the decision of the Westralian Court, which
granted tributors 50 p.c. of the premuim paid
by the Royal Mint on gold delivered for con-
version into sovereigns. The sum involved
is about £150.000; some tributors will collect
as much as £3OOO each.
At Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.), a
Horizontal .borehole on No. 22 level (inclined
depth, 3182 ft.), and about 1700 ft. south of
the shaft, has disclosed 7ft. of ore, estimated
to be worth 40s. or more per ton. This is
probably the footwall branch of the western
lode. It was well defined and about 150 ft.
long on Nos. 21, 23 and 24 levels,, but was
missed in the west crosscuts from the
south end of the western lode on No. 22. The
regular occurrence of smaller lodes on each
level is one of the features of the Sons of
Gwalia. It suggests that the main lode
may live to much greater depth. The aver-
age value of the ore now being worked is
28s. per ton.
* $ * *
The Mararoa co.’s leases at Reedys’
(W.A.) have been optioned again; this time
to a Perth syndicate. If the option is
exercised the vendor is to get £50,000 cash,
or fully-paids equal to 25 p.c. of the nominal
capital of any co. formed to work the pro-
perty. Boring is about to start.
$ # * =i=
The Austral co., which hoped for a sus-
tained market on the strength of its option
over the old Iron Duke at Kalgoorlie, has
had its first reverse. Exhaustive sampling
of the ore exposed has proved disappointing.
The co. proposes to continue searching, and
may ask shareholders for morg before Christ-
mas.
* # * *
Lake View South (it is next on the south
to the Lake View lease) was classed as a
failure at an early stage of Kalgoorlie's
existence. However, Dr. Laver and a few
other optimists stuck to the show, and SQmc
good stuff was recently mined a few hundred
feet from the surface, and not far from
where a rich bonanza was struck in the Lake
View over 30 years ago. The said bonanza
yielded about £BOO,OOO worth of gold in six
months, and their petered out suddenly.
* * * *
Star Explorations, Ltd., has assets with
a book value of £147,300. The co. was
formed in 1910 to take over some properties
from Hannans Star Consolidated, and
300,000 tons of tailings and a treatment
plant at Boulder. Retreatment of the tail-
ings ceased in 1911. owing to a fall in re-
covery values. A financial and exploration
business, chiefly in connection with mining,
is now being conducted. The co. is said to be
substantially interested in Sons of Gwalia.
* * * *
London, Australian and General Explora-
tion Cos., formerly of Westralia but now of
Cornwall and elsewhere, reports a loss of
£BO4 for year to July 31, as against a profit
of £275 for the preceding lz months. It is
the second reconstruction of a co. formed
to work shows on the East Murchison field
(W.A.). It amalgamated with Great Fingall
in 1923, and later became interested in a
Calfornian venture. Now it is chiefly inter-
ested in copper, china clay and base metals.
s': X X *
Following the announcement that a
strongly financed co. headed by J. A. Agnew,
chairman of Lake View, F. H. Hamilton,
chairman of Wiluna, W. S. Robinson and
others had taken options on the eastern and
northern goldfields of Westralia, comes the
news that a Melbourne concern is about to
try out the King of Creation at Laverton.
X X X X
On the Ivanhoe lease of the Lake View
and Star (W.A.) a west crosscut from the
Great Boulder lode at the 700 ft. level has
disclosed lift, of ore assaying 110 s. per
ton, with gold at £4 per ounce. The lode
is to be proved by driving north and south.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Are steps being taken by Commonwealth
Life ( Amalgamated ) Assurances likely to
arrest the drift disclosed by the actuary’s
last two valuations? —3329.
Provided policy-holders and shareholders
stick to tlie co., and provided also ex-
penses continue to be reduced, the co. has a
very good prospect of becoming actuarily
solvent by the time the next quinquennial
valuation is due. One trouble is that it has
to nurse some unprofitable short-term endow-
ments taken over at the date of the merger,
Dec. 14, 1926. These policies have been a
drag on the. business, and will con-
tinue so until they mature. With careful
nursing, and subject to the provisions already
stated, there is no reason why the co. should
not develop into a robust concern.
What is the connection between the Shell
and Royal Dutch cos., capital, production
figures, etc.? —3328.
The Shell Transport and Trading Cos.,
registered in London in 1897, amalgamated
with the Royal Dutch Petroleum Cos. at the
beginning of 1907. The pair thereupon
became holding cos. Their assets were
taken over by Anglo-Saxon Petroleum
(registered in England with a capital of
£25,000.000) and Bataafsche Petroleum
Maatschappij (registered in Holland with a
capital of 300.000,000 florins). The capital
of this pair is held 00 p.c. by the Royal
Dutch co. and 40 p.c. by the Shell co. The
combine has a controlling or substantial
interest in a large number of other concerns,
whose activities cover practically every
country in the world. At June 23, 1931,
the. Shell co.’s paid capital was £36,121,361.
Shares in other cos. figured at £30,382,602,
The production of crude oil by the Royal
Dutcn-Sheli group, including the cos. in
which the group is interested, compares as
follows for the three years to 1930:
1928. 1929. 1930.
Butch East Indies 3,971,045 4,746,426 4,806,640
Sarawak .. .. 751,092 760,166 701,518
Egypt .. .. 268,461 271,520 281,997
Roumania • • 705,854 852,372 1,034,042
Mexico (Corona). 528,979 363,361 284,749
„ (Aguila).. 893,681 1,689,564 1,553,258
Venezuela—
(Caribbean) 2,040,759 2,330,341 3,072,084
(V.0.C.) 5,084,580 6,469,206 5,878,186
(Colon)
Trinidad .. 65,187 102,800 128,240
U.S.A. .. .. 7,703,000 7,583.552 5,524,072
Argentine .. 00,773 15,079 9,980
Total .. .. 22,063,411 25,184,387 23,980,027
BRIEF ANSWERS.
L.C.E.: Though costs should benefit whew the new
dredges set in, the scrip appears to be fully priced
at 03s. Much, of course, depends upon what happens
in connection with the sterling dollar and Australian
sterling exchanges.... H.C.J.: Write to the branch
office in Wellington. In necessitous cases, the prac-
tice is to grant surrender values after the policy
has been in force for five years P.C.T.: See B.
16/3/’32 and B. 27/4/’32. .. .C.J.M.: Provided you
notified the co. of withdrawal before the shares
were allotted, you are not liable. .. .A.E.8.: It is a
bond-financed venture. That is to sav, the co. under-
takes to do certain things for bondholders, and in
return receives a. commission, payable out of earn-
ings in the same .way as wages, etc. Thus, bond-
holders shoulder practically all the risks, while they
have very limited control over the management....
8.H.H.: The “B” list of contributories consists of
those members who parted with their holdings within
12 months before the date of liquidation. They
are liable to contribute if the existing members are
unable to pay calls made upon them. However,
those on the “B” list are not liable for debts
contracted by the co. after they ceased to be
members.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
To Save the Pastoral Industry
Deaf Bulletin,— There is not the slight-
est dpubt that so far as this part of the
world is concerned over-capitalisation is,
as you suggest, the main thing wrong. In
1924-25 20,000-acre selections carrying 0000
to 8000 sheep were bought and sold for
£lO,OOO to £20,000. Early in ’26 a drought
developed and the sheep that were saved
cost 10s. per head at least. Assume the
drought ended early in ’27 (which it didn’t,
in many parts) and that 75 p.c. of the
sheep were saved. This means that the pur-
chase at £16,000 stands in at £lB,OOO-odd,
with 4500 sheep. It is fairly safe to say
that half of this capital value was borrowed
money, and with interest charges and other
charges there wasn’t much room for reduc-
tion of overdraft in ’27, ’2B, ’29. So the
slump arrived with a debt amounting to more
than the property is worth. I should say
the wool industry is important, otherwise
we wouldn’t have been carried on through
three losing years, and we really have only
been on a dole through that period; but I
would like to know who is paying for it
and why. Some one must know, and for the
good of the wool industry it is about time
the growers knew, too. I did no boom buy-
ing ; yet my own experience has been that
it has-cost me £l2O to produce £lOO.
As far as I can see, there is only one thing
to be done, and that is to order a compul-
sory conference of all the organisations
interested, including workers, and give imme-
diate effect by legislation to resolutions
passed.—Yours, .T. L. L. (Q.).
The Wool Committee’s Report
Dear Bulletin,— The report of the Wool
Committee is no worse and no better than I
expected. It contains, the usual platitudes
we are fed up with ; and its recommendations
for cost-reductions have been made and
ignored for the last three years. Lowering
tariffs and raising exchange rates, ,so that
we shall swell the spate of imports and
pay a lot more for them, are the essence
of the report. This will suit the Lyons
book and leave someone a helluva mess to
clean up later. Meanwhile average wool
price for the week ending Nov. 12, 1932,
was 8.3 d. per lb.; for the week ending Nov.
14, 1931, it was 9.89 d. The drift to bank-
ruptcy is sure and steady. Yet. so far as
merino wool is concerned Australia holds
the most trumps, and with 1 the aid of Enzed
and S. Africa could put the exploiters in
their proper place. But we are without
leadership.—Yours etc., An Old Grazier.
Consider the ’Nineties
Dear B,—You do well to suggest that we
should consider how we got out of the
terrible troubles of the ’nineties. Thirty
years ago clustered round every large hold-
ing was a group of worker families. They
held miners’ rights; they squatted on water
and stock reserves, conditional leases and
town commons; they had permissive occu-
pancy from pastoralist freeholders; some
were dummies; many had tiny ‘‘ground-
parrot” selections; a few township sites. All
had a bit of a garden, perhaps a small orch-
ard, a few fowls, a useful horse and a cow
or two running on the common, the "long
paddock” or the squatter’s grass. When
there was seasonal employment about the
men and elder boys earned. In the off-
season they improved their little holdings
so that wage-earning became less necessary.
Most of Australia’s country work is sea-
sonal, so the system suited everyone but the
doctrinaire, English-town-bred unionist with
his cast-iron hours- and wages-conditions
and his cult of class-distinction. Relations
between parties were not those of master
and man. Mostly the workers did not ask
wages; they preferred contract. Contract-
ing connoted independence. There are in
Australia alongside railway lines hundreds
of thousands of acres inviting improvement,
but no landowner will attempt to improve
them at union .rates and with casual, boss-
hating labor. He would, however, under
reasonable guarantees, allow home areas to
hard-working, non-migratory family men
upon whom he could with confidence call
when he required labor, and he would, if
that confidence was not betrayed, give out
lots of work he now withholds. It is fash-
ionable to scoff at the old squatter-cocky
system of Australia, but it had advantages
that could be adapted to-day. Wireless, good
roads, cheap reading, and a better capacity,
due to education,. in present-day people for
appreciating and using the advantages mod-
ern life offers have made the country much
better to live in even than it was thirty
years ago. Many would give the new order
a trial, and they would be the best and most
worth helping.—Yours, Ex-Pommy.
The Price of Wool
Dear Bulletin, —China is supposed to
contain about a quarter of the world’s
people. A great deal of the country is very
cold, yet the people don’t wear wool. Can’t
we get them to acquire the habit of wearing
such garments? It might be done if they
had thousands of hand looms given them,
with thousands of bales of wool, to be made
up in their homes. Once they acquired the
habit, they would certainly buy our wool
rather than go without the comfort of warm
clothing. My idea is that companies should
be formed with the object of buying our
cheap wool and presenting it. The result in-
evitably would be an increase in the price.—
Yours, I. C. Amos.
The Banana-grower’s Case
Dear Bulletin, —May I state a banana-
grower’s view of the Ottawa agreement as
it affects us? The importation of 4000 cases
a month from Fiji, is going to lower the
prices to the Australian, grower; and we
cannot receive less than we have had during
the past two years and pay living expenses.
Take my own experience. I had 940 cases,
or about 32,900 dozen, which were sold in
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide. My books
are properly kept. My expenses account
last year was £76. This is for three of us —
four during four and a half months —and
includes baker, grocer and butcher. We had
£9 left. I bought a pair of trousers, costing
215.; I found I had sold 340 dozen bananas
to pay for them.
Many think per cent, extra will not
make a great difference to the market. On
those days that 4000 cases arrive it means
up to 40 per cent, of the supplies, and the
market goes to pieces. We know this from
our experience of Norfolk Island shipments
of 2000 cases. If those imported bananas
could be put on the market at the rate of
1000 per week regularly, the effect would
not be felt .so much ; but to dump 4000 in
one lot is going to ruin those of us they hit.
We can’t compete against niggers. The
Bulletin says an assurance should be
given that the agreed-upon rate of 40,000
centals a year will not be increased. Who
could give this assurance? A politician’s
word is not worth a tuppenny damn. Our
organisation was assured three times by
different politicians that the embargo would
not be altered; and see what is happening!
We consider we should have the same pro-
tection from colored labor as the shipping
and other industries.
I would like to assure you that I am not
consciously exaggerating our case. Person-
ally, I can’t see any chance of holding on
and making even a bare living from banana-
growing under the new conditions, and my
place is not suitable for anything else. —
Yours etc., Cooroy Borer (Q.).
Monopolies
Dear BULLETIN/ —Mr. T. H. Williams, sec-
retary, Australian Fertilizers, Ltd., states (B.
lti/11/’32) that there is no monopoly in
the fertiliser industry in Australia. Also,
that his statement shows to what extent
reliance can be placed on my assertion that
such a monopoly does exist. We shall see.
Imperial Chemical Industries is a co. which
controls fertiliser in many parts of the
world. Its issued capital is £70,000,000; the
last: figures I have show reserves, £10,000.000,
and "investments, £08,912,015, chiefly in
subsidiary companies.” Mr. Williams has
not told us of the “minority interest” held
by the Australian subsidiary of 1.C.1. in
Australian Fertilizers, Ltd. Perhaps the
public will judge of the existence of the mono-
poly from the fact that it has an interest.
But we must not be led away from the
statement attacked. Is there a monopoly in
fertiliser in Australia? In 1929 there was
a merger in Victoria into Commonwealth
Fertilizers and Chemicals, Ltd., of prac-
tically all groups interested in fertiliser in
that State. Practically the same cos. have
interests in Australian Fertilizers and
Chemicals; and the Electrolytic Zinc Co.
(with a capital of over £2,000,000 and itself
interlocked with 1.C.1.) acquired a fourth
interest in Australian Fertilizers some few
years ago. Not only have other fertiliser
cos. subsidiary to 1.C.1, interests in Aus-
tralian Fertilizers. Ltd., and the Victorian
combine, but Australian Fertilizers, Ltd.,
has itself interests in the controlling Queens-
land co. So the system goes on, and the
public is ignorant of the facts. It would
take much time and money to worry out
the ramifications of these subsidiary and
interlocked cos., but above them all and
interested directly or indirectly in them all
is Imperial Chemical Industries, a world
monopoly, with its immense capital and
reserves invested “chiefly in subsidiary com-
panies.”—Yours, Mudgee.
Better Use of Bunny
Dear B., —There should be more than the
dole in converting bunny carcases into meat-
meal for fowl and pig feed. The cheapest
meatmeal I can get is 11s. 6d. per hundred-
weight retail and the demand is pretty good;
I daresay it could be exported, if the local
market couldn't absorb the supply. A mer-
chant from the Malay States recently in
Australia stated that a few years ago his
firm imported a line of tinned rabbits from
Australia, but could not get. a repeat order
supplied, though they tried hard, as it proved
an exceptionally good selling line.—Yours,
Kirk.
Hotels and Pure Spirits
DeBr B.,—Publicans ought to be required
t 0 keep on ’ hand small quantities of the best
spirits * not necessarily for over-the-bar
j- rade but f or people requiring it for medi-
cjnal purposes. In the hotels hereabout one
canno £ buy good spirits . If one complains
tbe answer usually is that it’s good stuff —
it must b it - s French brandy. Most of it
ig uot fit rinse the bottles that Uie Sout h
Australian brandy goes into.—Yours, Syl-
(A )
* ’ '
T , c
P,n “ ,e Scourg * , . ,
Dear Bulletin,— The depression lias
swung thousands to the cheaper forms ot
alcoholic exhilaration, and much ot the stuff
now vended as wine (particularly port) is
little less harmful than methylated spirit,
The trade ought to combine to combat this
and I was hopeful that a campaign would
have been launched during Wine Week, let
no speaker alluded to it. Unless something
is done about it the trade is going to tall
into profound disfavor and one of our most
promising industries may be ruined.—Yours
etc., Homfrey Beale.
> >
Australian Prices
Dear b.,—You say, “Is this Australia,
then, a poor, miserable country where it
costs so much to produce things that w
must not hope our £ can buy as much as
the £ does in England?” (B. 9/11/’32).
That aiipears to be exactly the position.
Tools, for instance, essential to the primary
producer—the difference in prices is simply
staggering. Why cannot our secondary
industries manufacture goods at a price corn-
parable with English prices? One reason
is that there is no_ need to try. For corn-
petitive purposes it is only necessary to
creep under the almost prohibitive tariff.
Dear goods mean fewer sales, and it would
probably surprise the manufacturer to know
how many primary producers are sitting-
back and going without rather than pay
present inflated prices for shoddily manufac-
tured goods.—J.M.O.
THE REAL GRANITES.
ONE STOCK-EXCHANGE PROSPECTOR: “Any luck?”
ANOTHER: “Hush! Not a word! I think I’ve located another ‘pocket’ with a few quid in it.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Chocolate Soldier”
Royal “Autumn Crocus”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Lilac Time”
King's “The Silver Cord”
State Movies and Talkie*
♦
“The Markets”
Emblazoned in an impenishable fretwork
of cast-iron above the portal are the‘words
“Municipal Market,” but Sydney knows the
place as “the markets,” or, if the speaker
is archißo logically inclined, “Paddy’s
Market.” Who Paddy was is not on record.
He must have been a tremendously energetic
and piarkedly nomadic captain of industry,
for all over Australasia there are towns
which cherish memories of a market that,
he founded. The Sydney market is housed
in an edifice that in some respects resembles
the Crystal Palace and in others a mews.
It lies in the area vaguely defined as “the
llaymarket,” and is approached by way of
Hay-street, reinforcing its association with
the plough and the hoe and honest sweat.
Friday is the market’s great day, when
under the arch of its dusty glass roof are
spread fruits and vegetables without num-
ber, purveyed by Caucasians and Chinese in
about equal proportions. The callot and the
cabbage, however, are not by any means the
whole or even the chief of the market’s
attractions. Frith, who was introduced to
the place by the Showman, was charmed
by the vast quantity and variety of gold-
fish there obtainable. These finny denizens
of pickle jars—if you want ’em in crystal
bowls standing on buhl pedestals this is the
wrong address —reminded him of Nippon,
where he spent so many happy years. Out
of the depth of his Japanese lore ■he ex-
plained that the way goldfish are made to
grow pop-eyed is that for hundreds and
thousands of years they have been put by
the ingenious natives into bowls in which
the glass is of varying thickness. Now a
goldfish has nothing to do all day but to
swim round and round his bowl staring at
the greater world outside. An uneven bowl
puts before those wistful, intently-gazing
orbs a succession of lenses of varying refrac-
tive power, and in endeavoring to correct
these errors due to refraction the goldfish
develops eye-muscles of prodigious length
and strength. This may or may not be
true. Three piebald goldfish in -whose hear-
ing the matter was expounded stopped and
gazed at Frith with open mouths. Then they
looked at each other, winked and continued
their circumnavigations.
For those who are not educated up to
goldfish the markets offer alternatives in the
shape of miniature crocodiles (very chic,
Is. ea.) and “Daphne water-fleas” (Is. per
jar). Why people should want to buy
water-fleas was obscure to the Showman,
but not to Frith. He said (and he said this
very bitterly) that if he could find out
where the man lives who invented radio
loud-speakers he would buy an assorted gross
of water-fleas and put them in the blighter’s
bath. A nice sentiment, with Christmas
almost upon us !
Talking of Christmas, now is the time
to commence goose- or duck-culture. You
buy a pair of ducklings or gooselings at
the markets, take them home in a perforated
“Develops eye-muscles of prodigious length
and strength.”
cardboard box, and feed ’em up. Or a pair
of pullets. Frith was saddened by a scene
that reminded him of the French Revolu-
tion. In a crate, wearing an air of insouci-
ance, stood a group of aristocratic younger-
set Langshans. Suddenly a red hand was
thrust in among them. Two were grabbed
by the legs and withdrawn, to be thrust
immediately into a customer’s suitcase^ —pre-
pared for their reception by the provision of
two tiny triangular air-vents, one at each
end. “Through the Black Hole of Cal-
cutta to the Guillotine,” murmured Frith,
who is fond of history and dumb animals.
Then he tried to make friends with a pair
of three-day-old puppies who were having
a game of Lurich v. The Terrible Turk,
but they were too engrossed.
Absorbingly interesting though the live-
stock section of the markets is, it is sur-
passed by what may be called the antique
department. Dotted here and there among
the cabbages and the tobacco-st-alls are col-
lections of ancient hardware arrayed on
motor-lorries, feebly camouflaged to resemble
shops. Few of the incredibly dirty lumps
of iron and brass arc recognisable, and that
they should arouse a desire for possession
in any human breast is unbelievable.
Among the exhibits, sorely defaced by
time, there figure things that dimly resemble
the tools of carpentry. A set of wooden
planes, jet-black with age, may conceivably
have been used by Noah in fashioning his
celebrated combined houseboat and zoo, and
there is a saw which must have been a
veteran when a Tyrian journeyman on the
Tower of Babel spoilt it by using it to split
granite. A depressing sight, but not so
depressing as a group of four solemn-looking
men who in dispirited tones endeavored
to interest an entirely apathetic audience
in certain articles of underclothing which
they made a show T of Dutch-auctioning.
“.Cheap enough to buy it and pawn it,”
seemed to be the best argument in their
repertoire, and the Showman thought regret-
fully of those golden days before the great
Depresh when the markets were filled with
the clamor of barkers who could bark, and
when the brass-haired lady, who sold the
corn-cure performed no fewer than nine
separate feats of legerdemain, using live
rabbits and a snake as well as hats und
handkerchiefs, in corroboration of the magi-
cal powers of her remedy, accompanying
these manifestations with a torrent of patter
that shamed Niagara. Those were the days!
Factors that militated against the success
of Andreas Steiner as a waiter in London
were that he couldn’t carry soup without
sloshing it, and couldn’t resist smiling back if
a pretty lady smiled at him. So he went back
to his ancestral pub in the Austrian Tyrol,
where he could wear shorts held up by
embroidered braces and slosh soup, play the
harp and smile at pretty ladies to his heart’s
content. He smiled at a little schoolmarm
from Manchester, a guest in his inn, with
devastating effect, and when she learned that
“Cheap enough to buy it and pawn it.”
there was a Frau Steiner the English miss
almost, but not quite, decided to have nothing
mere to do with him. Her companion, a
spinster M.A., having thrown a bucket
of icy-cold water on the warm and tender
romance, the English miss’s “almost” became
a regretful “quite.” That’s the framework
of “Autumn Crocus,” which blossomed for
the first time before a Sydney audience at
the Royal on Saturday.
In the background, but not too much so,
are an English vicar and his sister, a Ger-
man couple and the partners in a com-
panionate marriage. There is a musical
garnishing that includes a couple of Schu-
bert songs and Grieg’s powerfully erotic
invocation to spring, and the dialogue is
mildly humorous. Frau Steiner speaks not
a single word. She is all background. There
is also a little Fraulien Steiner who says
nought, but whose high, clear treble, singing
a childish song, very prettily ends the play.
The adequate presentment of this charm-
ing trifle depends, of course, upon the
innkeeper and the schoolmarm. Theo Shall
fits the male part like a glove. His pronun-
ciation is perfect in its imperfection, and his
mannerisms carry conviction; even his con-
tinual bleating of “Fannee! Fannec !” in
anguished tones wins more sympathy than
ridicule. Dorothy Peters, who plays Frances
Gray, the little brown-haired schoolmistress,
is not quite so artless. She clings to one or
two little stage conventions, but they don’t
obtrude, and she has the audience with her
all the time. But that can be said of every
character, for there are no unpleasant per-
sons in this play. Campbell Copelin and
Mona Barlee, as the experimentees in mar-
riage ; Harry Wootton and Katie Towers,
as the German tourists, and Leslie' Victor
and Beatrice Egerton, as the vicar and his
maiden-sister, are all well cast, and if Miss
Egerton would only enunciate a little more
distinctly nothing more could be asked. The
scenery, particularly the second-act set, de-
picting early morning in the mountains, is
beautiful.
* # *
For three acts “Whose Child,” which
opened at Sydney Cri., on Saturday night,
is middling art and good, though not very
logically presented, propaganda, but the fourth
act is as bad an example of playwrighting
as ever was seen on the amateur stage. The
play follows closely the Polini case, but
there are lighter touches and a final curtain
that is unique in its disregard for the canons
of drama. In introducing the lighter touches
(servants talking, interjections in Parlia-
ment, etc.), the author uses repai'tee of a
familiar brand, and Molly Rayner as a char.,
Bert Barton as a Parliamentary messenger
and Millicent Preston Stanley as an inex-
haustible flow of words put it over very
well. Nancye Stewart competently handles
the role of Olive Windsor, but it is a defect
of the part—and of the argument which the
play embodies —that Mrs. Windsor doesn’t
explain why after three years of marriage
she wanted to cast off a husband who was
not cruel nor unfaithful. The point needs
to be made clearer, and doubtless it will be,
in another place, for at the final curtain the
author announced that the N.S.W. Govern-
ment has promised to introduce in a bill
a clause granting all the boons the play was
designed to win.
# # *
The New Sydney Rep. Soc., under the
guidance of Scott Alexander, put on five
more Grand Guignols on Saturday. Corpses
were the order of the evening. “The Light-
house,” the chief play, deals with the return
from shore of the keeper’s son suffering from
hydrophobia. There is a struggle outside, in
which the demented son pushes the harbor-
master’s son on to the rocks below the light-
house, and rushes in—to compel a distracted
father to kill him lest he himself should be
murdered and thus doom the ships that de-
pend for safety on -the beacon light. John
Vincent, as the father, and William Leahy,
as the son, gave very lifelike portrayals. A
comedy sketch by Paul Johnstone and
Bonnie O’Neill relieved the gloom.
* * *
John van Druten’s “There’s Always
Juliet,” presented by Arundel J. Nixon at
Sydney Savoy last week, i.s a dramatic
featherweight. The plot is as bare as a
Bondi surf belle, and the characters- are of
the standardised sort. The dialogue is
bright, but the cast wasn’t equal to the job
of making it sparkle. Arundel J. Nixon,
except for trouble with the American accent,
was adequate to the part of Dwight Houston,
a New York architect who sweeps an English
miss off her feet, but he didn’t get the sup-
port he deserved. Margot Read, who played
Leonora Perrycoste, the captured maiden,
will improve with experience. The play was
preceded by “In Port” (author not named),
a well-constructed curtain-raiser.
* ¥ *
Into “Ghosts” Ibsen poured all his indig-
nation at a canting and hypocritical society.
He was so anxious to tell the whole story
that he covered almost the entire range of his
subject in three short acts comprising an
ostensible 24 hours of action. To bring the
various aspects of his subject into some sort
of logical relation he confected a plot so
closely knit by circumstances as to strain
probability to the utmost. Thus, in the first
act Pastor Manders, the Elmer Gantry of a
Scandinavian township, decides not to
insure the orphanage being erected to the
memory of Mrs. Alving’s husband for fear
rlie townsfolk will doubt his faith in Divine
Providence. A few hours later the orphanage
is burnt down after he has held a prayer
meeting in it lit by candlelight. In the
meantime, Nemisis is raining other blows
upon him. Fifteen years previously Mrs.
Alving fled to him from her dissolute husband
and the pastor, stifling his own affection for
her, sends her back to the path of duty. He
learns from Mrs. Alving that her husband
remained until he died as dissolute as ever.
Mrs. Alving learns from her son Oswald that
her husband’s irregularities have left a
ghost in his offspring in the shape of heredi-
tary syphilis:. Moreover, having been kept
in ignorance of his father’s real behavior
he believes the taint has been acquired
through his own indiscretions, and he is
being driven frantic by the sense of per-
sonal responsibility. She tides to spare him
the agonies of remorse and tells him the truth
about his father, which destroys his last
illusion. In his eagerness to get everything
on to his canvas Ibsen also paid scant atten-
tion to the scientific aspect of Oswald’s ill-
ness. Although it is made clear that he has
the hereditary form of the disease the
course it takes on the stage is that of the
acquired kind. Normally, Oswald would have
probably been dumb at the age of 10 and
deaf and blind shortly thereafter, whereas he
remains vocal to the final tremendous cur-
tain. His collapse into imbecility is then
presented purely in the terms of theatrical
convention. The sun rises and Oswald asks
for it, that being the first intimation his
mother receives of his mental darkening.
She has promised to give him an overdose of
morphia when the attack comes on him and
she takes the pilules from his pocket. As the
curtain descends the maternal instinct, the
desire to snaich a last solace from life by
mothering someone, triumphs and Mrs.
Alving withholds the draught while Oswald is
relapsing rapidly into helpless infantility.
In “Ghosts,” despite his mechanical con-
struction, Ibsen the artist triumphed over
Ibsen the propagandist. Otherwise the play
would not have been revived by the Sybil
Thorndike co. at Melbourne King’s on Satur-
day. It would have been forgotten years
ago. Dame Sybil succeeded, as Mrs.
Alving, in depicting the eternal tragedy of
motherhood by a remarkable blend of realism
and symbolism. Her curiously awkward ges-
tures, which make her arms look as long as
her legs, were strangely impressive, as if
they were, the conditioned reflexes of a being
moved hy supernatural stimuli. Lewis
Casson was effective as Pastor Manders,
Christopher Casson bad difficulty in not
overacting Oswald, Hilda Davies bluntly
suggested a life-loving maidservant and
Bruce Winston generously doubled Ibsen’s
dole under the comic-relief system as Jacob
Engstrand, the servile carpenter.
* * #
The Australian amateur dramatic stage
breeds one-act plays with rabbit-like fecun-
dity, but after his one little play has seen
one usually inadequate performance the local
playwright seems to lose heart or run out
of material, and nothing more is heard of
him. Present writer does not know of one
Australian dramatist who has shown the
persistence, singleness of purpose and steady
development in technical proficiency of the
best Australian painters. Take Marjorie
McLeod, whose “Moonshine” got a hear-
ing at the Kelvin Hall (Melb.) under
the auspices of the Australian Litera-
ture Society. An elderly married man
conceals from himself the failure of
his matrimonial relations by clinging to
the fiction that he and his wife are
still romantically in love, although everything
the lady does annoys him. As she says, the
more sentimental he gets about the past, the
more irritable he is over the present. The
wife compensates herself by a series of
purely mental love affairs with chance
acquaintances, including the postman and
Rudolph Valentino, though without reveal-
ing the state of her heart to the objects of
her affection. The elderly married couple
are contrasted with the younger generation
in the shape of a niece and an engineer, who
wants to avoid disillusionment by having no
illusions. He thinks that the ideal place for
a wedding would be amidst the dynamos in
a powerhouse. The action of the play, like
life, is inconclusive. Dramatic conventions
are conspicuous by their absence. The four
characters are real, and their reactions are
naturally presented, even if their psychology
hasn’t been probed very profoundly. On the
evidence of this play Miss (or Mrs.) McLeod
understands her job far better than nine-
tenths of the writers for the commercial
boards. There seems to be no reason,
except the above-mentioned peculiarity of
Australian dramatists, why she shouldn’t go
much farther. Since her method is direct
observation, without the intrusion of personal
prejudices, she has as many subjects for her
pen as a realistic painter for his brush.
“Moonshine” shone brightly through the
medium of Agnes Casey, Linda Newcombe,
Les Bennett and that sterling actor H.
Gregory. “The Final Scene,” by J. Ormis-
ton Reid, was a clever skit on dramatic con-
ventions in which a playwright and a critic
take turns at composing a love scene w T hich
is simultaneously acted by imaginary char-
acters. “Odd Man Out,” by F. W. Hyland,
was apparently included in the programme
as a horrible example. Frank Lasslett and
Fred Speight shadow-sparred the ghostly
dialogue, and Lorna Snellgrove had some
not very obvious connection with the pro-
ceedings.
“White Collars,” which has been to the
wash several times before in Melbourne, was
starched and ironed by the Nellie Bramley
Laundry Co. at the Palace last week, and the
result was received with tears of joy and
sighs of thankfulness by large houses, the first
performance playing to capacity. “White
Collars” is the, one about the handsome
young American multi-millionaire, this time
named Van Luyn, who despite the blue
Dutch blood in his veins marries his secre-
tary, Joan Thayer, whose plain, honest,
middle-class and inarticulate father is in
the hardware business. A grim struggle
then ensues between the Van Luyn wealth,
complicated by a set of interfering relations,
and Mr. Thayer’s sturdy bourgeois inde-
pendence, which flourishes in an atmosphere
of bad cooking, horsehair upholstery and
Cousin Henry, all equally offensive to the
Van Luyn nostrils. The millionaire youth
wants his wife to take her place amongst
the Van Luyn ancestors, but she lias moons
in her head about making him share the
smell of the cooking and the upholstery. In
the end a compromise is arrived at, and the
rest of the Thayer family is elevated along
with the married daughter. Cousin Henry,
who is a thorn in the millionaire’s side owing
to his radical opinions, is given a job in
South America. The last-named is the only
character with pretensions to sound psy-
chology, but Norman Wister makes a
shambles of the part for the benefit of the
gallery. Otherwise the performance is excel-
lent. Miss Bramley plays Joan with her
usual astuteness and sense of theatre, John
Cameron exerts himself to make the limou-
sined young man acceptable to an audience
of season-ticket holders, Ronald Riley is a
quietly realistic clerk in hardware, and Bebe
Scott is good as his second daughter.
* # *
The performance of Arthur Schnitzler’s
“Christmas Shopping” at Melbourne Royal by
Theo Shall and Maria Von Wyl (Mrs. Shall)
was not fitted for a large theatre. The
Viennese actor has a confidential manner at
any time, and his wife left everything to
the audience’s imagination. Shall’s acting
is extraordinarily easy, natural and subtle,
but democratic theatregoers are entitled to
demand a more equitable distribution of
his favor.s than the first six rows of the
stalls..
V
On Saturday, at Melbourne King’s, the
Thorndikes will present “The Silver Cord,”
by Sydney Howard, for the first time in
Australia. Some of the people whom Ibsen
thoughtlessly failed to provide parts for in
“Ghosts” will find accommodation in this
play on the eternal theme of mother-love,
including Atholl Fleming, Donald Eccles,
Zillah Carter and Phyllis Best.
* * #
Adelaide’s 10-year-old pianist, Philip Har-
grave, has given his first recital to an over-
packed Town Hall. Though he can only
just reach the pedals, lie has to be judged
by an adult standard, and a high one at that.
Bach, Chopin, Schubert, Beethoven —he gave
them all from memory. He is a genius, as
Prof. Harold Davies has been saying for
three years past.
* * *
Dame Thorndike and co. finished their
three weeks’ run at Brisbane His Majesty’s
with “Madame Plays Nap.” The houses for
this play and “Captain Brassbound’s Conver-
sion” were better than for “Macbeth” and
“Saint Joan.”
The Palette.
The “1932 group” of youngish painters has
been holding court at Melb. Athenaeum. E.
B. H'effernau’s “Brighton Beach” gets most
marks in the realm of direct impression,
though Jessie Mackintosh’s flowers are meri-
torious. John Vickery’s “Infinitude” is an
attempt to depict a landscape pale with heat
to the point of pernicious anaemia, while
James F. Farrell’s “September” foliage is
as solid as an Easter Island statue. Some
of the group are tentative moderns, and
their pictures leave doubts in the mind as
to whether the 1932 in their society’s title
is meant to be a.d. or b.c.
The keynote to Harry Dangar’s show of
water-color and pencil landscapes at the
Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney, is given in the
artist’s illustrations to the poems of Rupert
Brooke —a series of tinted drawings that
form a section by themselves. They’re a bit
pre-Raphaelitish, and the style is that of
Kate Greenaway. Translated into land-
scapes the combination is a bit insipid and
bleak, but within the four corners of a very
cramped formula some pretty effects are
achieved. Weeping willows predominated in
these sketches, but Mr. Dangar can draw
other trees, as is proved by some pencil
drawings of woodland scenes that would be
up to Hans Heysen’s high standard were
it not for a fidelity to Dame Nature that
refuses to delete a smudge on the lady’s nose
or a ladder in her stocking.
“F.S.” : Mrs. J. B. ganders, who used to
manage an art gallery in Melbourne, is pre-
paring to shock the aesthetic sense of Aus-
tralian art fanciers with a show of Euro-
pean modernists. Epstein, Eric Gill, Augus-.
tus John and some of the Continentals will
be amongst the assemblage. The question of
whether the Customs censorship would swal-
low Epstein’s “Genesis,” the gigantic
negrcss in tin advanced state fatty\ degen-
eration, was raised in connection witli the
exhibition, but the matter was academic, as
“Genesis” is unavailable.


WARNING!
A9dinst cheap oils bij
British Motor Manufacturers
fYi
C 5
e>
n
_. \9^'
Se? „ «ea*
^ et wto de \ fC \v^ e
»rJs?ssr>s; i'.-
bftcj e
co^ £ c \ £ c^ s r ve^ vtV V £^ e e *°*
rTVve st t£vo^ e _ u * e \<vS otv f Ip to
'“?s<‘*£.’*' »« s<ii *'»
t\vts t 0 »\oO-- .pt sS> ipVoo et
be *** \^ 4 f' s^ eo^e
S<"> fs**£ v *** o ,
*s os *»
«.ts
tfO e
tvot
vtt
f „>
3?9 s* '
.*>•*
The Signatories are the
following Companies*
ALVIS
ARMSTRONG-SIDDELEY
AUSTIN
BiS.A.
CROSSLEY
DAIMLER
FORD
HILLMAN
HUMBER
JOWETT
LAGONDA
LANCHESTER
MORRIS
M.G.
RILEY
ROLLS-ROYCE
ROVER
SINGER
STANDARD
SUNBEAM
TALBOT
TRIUMPH
VAUXHALL
WOLSELEY
CA^
1 a
J
m
V m
96
W,
More Motor Manufacturers
recommend or approve
Mobiloil
REGD.
titan any other lubricant.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY,' PIY ltd


Ihe Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND -.- - 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778-025 0 0
DITGCtOTS *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
*
S'
vs
a
f
It pays you to
test your tyres
regularly once n
week—test them
with the All-
British Kismet
Tyre Gauge.
KISMET
sdf
The Kismet Tyre Gauge is., the most scientific
and accurate tyre gauge on the market. It is as
beautiful as it is accurate. '
The calibrated. hexagonal scale is easy to read—
the pressure being, recorded in large' figures and
rising in individually calibrated lib. units.
The external design makes it easy to fit the
gauge squarely on the tyre valve. •
Supplied in neat leather wallet of''handy vest-
pocket size. “
Price
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, C l.
ABORIGINALITIES
“Bishop Hatto” : I also have killed three
rats in one spring-trap (B. 23/11/’32).
Before the war I was living in a house in
Roslyn-street, Darlinghurst, just opposite
to where St. Luke’s Hospital stands now*.
Behind us was an ancient tenement which
wms pulled dowm to make room for flats. The
timber from the building was piled in a
lane: the million evicted rats occupied it, in-
vaded the house, and swarmed over the little
back garden. On Sunday afternoons I used
to amuse mvself bv shooting them as
THE TIME-KEEPERS.
VISITING PARSON: “What a lot of your congregation have bad
coughs!”
VERGER: “Lor’ bless ’ee, sir, they bain’t coughs — they'm time-
signals.”
they coolly took their way about the garden,
my “butt” being the kitchen window. The
noise of the pea rifle and the casualties soon
put the cunning brutes on the alert. Then
I tried half a dozen spring-traps, and used
to watch them through the window. It. was
most exciting to see the rats sneak gingerly
up to the traps, two or three at a time.
Many doubles were scored. I claim a record
with three in the trap and one killed and
flung aside by the descending spring as he
was racing up to join his brethren in the
feast.
“Gamble,g-hbbin'' : Those pro-
minent points in the Blue
Mountains known as the Three
Sisters arid the Orphan Rock,
which tourists view from Echo
Point, now reached by the
recently-completed giant stairs,
were famed in Binghi’s legend-
ary lore. That part of the
mountains was in tlie towri of
the- •Wunulla tribe; not far
away was the Kooda tribe,
ruled by - a draughty young-chief
named Kirawa. He learned
that among the Wunullas were
three .sisters, Witnala, Mfeeni and
Gnnedoo, giantesses and beauti-
ful, and he decided to make war
on their tribe and claim the
maidens for himself;. The
armies fought for three days,
and many were killed on each
side; then an armistice was
agreed to, arid to win the
friendship of Kirawa the chief
of the Wunullas offered him the
pick of the giantesses. They
stood on one side of the Jafnie-
son Valley, and Kirawa stood
on the other side to,make his
choice. But the charms of the
sisters were so much of a much-
ness that all day he stood lock-
ing at them, unable to decide
which one to have. Meanwhile
the young gins of the Kooda
tribe were furiously jealous,
and they sought Yooma, a
hideous old witch —the evil
spirit of the mountains. Yooma
lit a fire in the ravine below,
and a dense cloud of smoke
arose and obscured the land-
scape. A terrific storm fol-
lowed, and when the atmo-
sphere cleared again they saw
that where Kirawa had stood
was an immense rock, and on
the other side where the sisters
had waited were three huge pillars. And so
Ivirawa, the Orphan Rock, gazes for ever
across the valley, and Wimala, Meeni and
Kunedoo. the Three Sisters, wait eternally
for his judgment.
* * * $
“Mac Thursday”: Reference in a recent
issue to the retirement of a Vic. railway
official after 43 years’ service recalled an
incident of 25 years ago on the Birregurra-
Forrest line, on which he was then travel-
ling stationmaster.
At Dean’s Marsh a
number of fashion-
ably-dressed holi-
day-makers got off,
bound for Lome,
and one lady sailed
up to the S.M.,
who was bustling
to get the train
unloaded. “Portah,”
she demanded,
“bring my bag!”
Mick stopped in
front of the dame,
solemnly removed
hi s gold. - striped
cap, and held it
down level with
her eyes, peak to-
wards her. , “Can’t
you read, washer-
vvoman?” came
somewhere from
the stars; and he
moved on. One
other episode on
the same line con-
cerned the loading
of an obstinate
horse. The beast
was led and cajoled
and blindfolded,
while a crowd of
helpers gave free
advice, but posi-
tively refused ■ to
budge in the direc-
tion of the horse-
box waiting to re-
ceive it. Over the
heads of the crowd
the travelling
S.M.’s cap was
seen approaching.
“What the hell are
you doing? Push
him in, can’t you?”
and with a heave he applied his own shoulder
to the animal’s hindquarters. The shock was
so sudden that a surprised nag was looking
out from the horsebox with the door fast-
ened behind before it had realised what sort
of a human earthquake had struck it.
“Mako": Our old grey cat planted her
last batch of kittens so successfully that
after a month they remained undiscovered,
although we searched every nook and cranny
of house and garden. One day while garden-
ing I became aware of life and movement in
a huge old staghorn wedged in the branch of
a tree at least fifteen feet from the ground,
A MISFIRE.
PARSON: “Ah, Jacky, drink comes from the Devil.”
JACKY: “My word! That good-pfeller—him no plurry wowser.”
and, suspecting snakes, hastily retired. But
the eyes that looked at me, ten of them, were
blue and innocent. With a ladder w r c
reached the kittens and introduced them
to earth, but next day they’ were “up home,”
careering round their staghorn balcony. It
was another month before ma clawed her
way down the tree with a heavy kitten in
her mouth five times, but her choice of a
maternity home saved their lives.
* * * $
“O, W. .Waireki” : When Ilenare heard a
laughing record played for the first time he
was delighted. “I must get a porta-
pout gramophone, an’ -t’at record for my
horse,” he said. “Your horse?” I echoed.
“Yes,” he replied. “It .save me hard work
faking happiness to catch him with every
morning.”
“Shep”: Like lots of others, “Dogsbody”
(P>. I(>/ll/’32) asserts that homers were
extensively used during the war. He. might
have told us where. Flares, human runners
and, more important still, • field telephones
gave pigeons a peaceful life back in their
lofts. I caifit .recall'them having been used
to advantage in the A.I.F. Back near Abbe-
ville were huge- breeding lofts under the. care
of Tommy pigeon fanciers. Reinforcements
were available from, them for all parts of
the British front,- but for a couple of months
before we saw them they hadn’t been called
on. A pigeon'is'certainly credited with sav-
ing the remnant of , a garrison at Verdun,
but I still think flares, if they had had them,
would have saved them far quicker. The
pigeon’s place in the next war will be back
at home. . .....
“Ponto” : On two successive days recently
the exploits of a dog described as an Alsa-
tian provided Sydney newspapers with blood-
curdling posters. The hound made a purple
patch in a hitherto blameless life of three
years by a determined attempt to slay his
master, a Rose Bay resident. Prince flew
at his owner’s head, bit him on the nose,
knocked him down, bit him severely in the
leg in three places, and tore most of the
clothes from his body before someone rushed
to the rescue. A constable arrived with
a pistol, and shot the dog in the
head and in the mouth. Though one
of its eyes was blowm away, the dog made
its escape and headed for the coast, pur-
sued now by tv*o constables, both armed,
and one on a motor-cycle. Somewhere on
the coast, near Ben Buckler, the dog found
a hiding place, and there he remained *
the early morning, when he returned
his home. His owner kept
way and sent for the policeman, who ni e
as the dog sprang for his throat.
a bullet entered that-mad head, and .
tore through the animal’s shoulder, but it
fought on. and actually seized the revolver
with its teeth. One more shot, down its throat,
ended the hound’s career. The owner, who
was very fond of the dog, explains its con-
duct as the result of sudden _ dementia:
the Alsatian Club' suggests that it probably
wasn’t a pure-bred Alsatian. There was a
question in Parliament and a promise; that
Ministers would confer as to what could be
done about it.
“Tiny”: “Jungor” (B. 16/11/’32) errs a
little when he refers to the stately bird with
the chickens that is to be seen on the Irish
pennies as “the humble domestic fowl.'
Although called a “hin” for short, it is a
hen pheasant.
* * * *
“Reddan Black”: It may be, as “Greei,
Chequer” (B. 23/11/’32) says, that homers
have to be taught to home. But the god wits,
which navigate close on half the globe twice
annually, fly. if the scientists are to be be-
lieved, by landmarks,'and moreover (excuse
the bull!) by landmarks that in some
instances have been missing for two or three
million years./ Why the godwit does its love-
rhaking, marrying and family-raising in Siberia
and then 'flies south, following the summer,
to Muoriland isn’t exactly clear. But that
has been the godwit’s habit, so the savants
declare, since the days when an unbroken
coast-line ran from Kamschatka to what is
now* Stewart Island, the southerly pendant
of the Shivery Isles. The first flock of god-
wits arrived.’at. Ivaipara harbor in the first
week of November this year. Last year
they were a month later, but November is
their favorite month. The hegira occupies,
as far as can be*tallied, four or five weeks.
Though they stick to a custom that began
before man arrived, these birdies are quick
to learn, and they seem to keep a close
tab on the calendar. From their annual
arrival up to December 31 they are quite
tame and have no fear of human beings.
From January 1. when the shooting season
for wading birds starts, till April, w*hen
they commence their journey north, they
make themselves remarkably scarce, and are
only seen either at a great distance or in
rapid flight.
“Heyden”: “Pick” (B. 2/11/’32), is
wrong in liis guess, According to Sir Oswald
Brierley’s diaries, the first, load of wool from
Monaro to arrive at Twofold Bay was
brought in by one of the Rixpn brothers, who
reached the Bay on December 21, 1,543, via
Towamba —no doubt via the original Big
.Tack route.
PLACE NAMES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There's something in Westralian names
That sets one’s heartstrings pulling.
Although I’ve been away so Jong,
At times still comes a yearning strong
To wander off to CoOglegoug
Or back to Bulla Bulling.
For Scottish highlands some may pine,
KiHarney lakes or Lundy.
But, were a magic carpet mine.
I’d sooner head for Doodlnkine
Or steer for. Ballagundi,
There’s little music in the words;
No cadence soft and winning
To conjure tender memories up
Of faraway Gnowangerup,
Of Badgerin or Tambellup
Or peaceful Fopanyinning.
But oh! I’d swap the storied view
Around (say) Tintern Abbey
Just for another glimpse or two
Of Yalgoo or of Minginew
Or even Yowergabbie.
For unforgettable appeal
I hold you cannot match ’em.
I pity those who feel no cling
In Moonyoonooka’s murmuring,
No tickly touch in Jibberding,
No kick in Wyalcatchem.
How crisp they slither off the tongue!
I’d like a vreek to stop in
That homely-sounding Dumbleyung.
And one Benjabbering’s glades among
And one in' Burracoppin.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


m
M
9
«•* Stanley
Unbreakable
s Vacuum Flask
Made entirely of steel
ehd lined' with blue
amalite. Guaranteed to
keep liquids boiling hot
for 18 hours, and icy
cold for 36 hours. Ab-
solutely unbreakable.
Idee I for travelling.
1- SIZE,
52/6
2- SIZE,
65/-
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Sween Street, "zßrisbanes
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811.
With which are amalgamated
The Western Australian Bank and The Australian Bank of Commerce, Ltd.
Paid-up Capital.. .. '.. .. .. .. .. £8,780,000
Reserve Fund .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. 6,150,000
Reserve Liability .. . ..* .. .. 8,780,000
£23,710,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS 30th SEPTEMBER, 1931 .. £90,111,427
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
689 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
ALL CUSTOMARY BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE. STREET.
Paid Up Capital £ Vnnn oon
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL SIK IET, -U
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
Letters of Credit issued on London.
America and elsewhere. Bills from abiontl
collected and proceeds remitted. All us ual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
“Aplanges”: .On the island of Moa in
Torres Strait lives'old Namai. He is the
sole survivor of- a tribe long exterminated.
Here is the story of that extermination.
Separated from Moa by. a strait about a
mile wide is Badu, whose inhabitants were
often at war with the f Moa people. From
a wrecked ship, probably the Antagonist,
wrecked on its w r ay to Port Essington with
military stores in 1863, the Baduites
obtained a large .supply of tobacco and some
cutlasses. A case of the tobacco was deliv-
ered, to Moa with the news that if the in-
habitants assembled a week later, unarmed,
on a sand.spit known as Karabai (the white
crane) another case would be presented. In
the meantime, word was sent to the neigh-
boring island of Mabuiag for the warriors
to come over and advance through the scrub
on Karabai. The Badu men landing on
Karabai apparently had no . weapons, for the
cutlasses were hidden in mats, without which
no native would travel. These mats were
unrolled , and the weapons hidden under-
neath ; the men sat on the mats and
GIVING WHAT HE GOT.
SWAGGY (footsore). “How far is it to Orange, mate?”
OWNER OF LOST DOY: “To Orange? Oh, I dunno—about three or four mile; might be
five or six. Seen anything of a dog—with a short tail?”
SWAGGY: “Yes, I saw him all right. He had, a tail about three or four inches long;
might be five or six.”
waited for the flies to walk into the parlor,
The Moa people came down unarmed, and
at. a given signal out came the cutlasses,
and the slaughter began. As the victims
fled the Mabuiag men rushed from the scrub,
and the fugitives were surrounded and
hacked to pieces. One woman, Namai’s
mother, escaped, taking with her her only
child. The island is again populated, the
Queensland Government having moved ■ the
Hammond Islanders there. The Anglican
mission has also formed a .settlement, St.
Pauls, as a refuge for South Sea Islanders.
:]: * * *
“Herpeton”: One of Australia’s queerest
professions is “snake-clmrming,” so-called.
Very few of its many exponents have died a
natural death, in spite of the secret infal-
lible antidote which each claims to possess.
The latest to join his brethren in the shades
is.“ Professor” Davis, who died incontinently
at a Victorian show. The man, like several
others of his kind, probably acquired a cer-
tain amount of immunisation from being con-
stantly bitten by Australian snakes, mostly
the small-fanged colubrines. Two of these
snakeologists went to spread their theories
abroad, and each came to a sudden end at bis
first introduction to strange snakes. One
succumbed in South Africa to a puff adder,
and the other in India to a Russell’s viper,
probably the-deadliest of all .snakes.
“Aquila”: It’s “Pick” (B. 10/11/’32)
wdio errs when he denies that eagles add
annually to their stick-built nests. The
habit is well known, and has been
widely described by irrefutable authori-
ties. In my own case I have seen a nest
of the, kind double its size in five years -
it was built in cattle country where the
birds were unmolested —and even the neo-
phyte has only to examine the piled-up
debris to see that the foundations of a big
nest are years older than the new season’s
top layer. As to the special platform for
the eaglets to dine off. I never .noted one.
All the nests I have searched contained the
young ones mixed up with the debris of
their meals, and a mighty odoriferous lot
they were.
“Millimurra”: Having many fond recol
lections of “palm-oil chop," I must join
issue with “Coir” (B. 2/11/’32). Tin* out-
side fleshy substance of the palm kernel
is used for the “chop,” which is a delicious
dish, consisting of chicken stewed in palm
oil, together with eggs, tomatoes and other
ingredients. The Gold Coast native makes
a refreshing and intoxicating beverage from
the palm kernel tree. Until recently the
whole tree was cut down to enable the drink
to be made, but nowadays the same results
are obtained by tapping the trees, much in
the same manner as rubber is extracted.
* * * *
“E.S.”: A Richmond River (N.S.W.)
farmer, being flooded out at midnight,
hurried his family on to a rise a little dis-
tance from the house. In the morning the
rise was an island, and it remained so for
three days. A few loose matches in Mr.
Hayrick’s vest pocket enabled him to make
a fire with driftwood, but he had nothing
to cook on it. He was watching the fish
in the water and wondering how In' could
get some, when he noticed Mrs. Hayrick
brushing her hair with her hands and hold-
ing hairpins in her mouth. She was proud
of her long hair, but Mr. Hayrick wanted
fish. A few minutes afterwards, following
THE CREAM O’ LOVE.
DAD: “How do y’ know you love the gal?”
DAVE: “Because I’m jealous of the cows she milks.”
much persuasive argument, he partly bobbed
her hair with his pocket knife, and then
made a fishing-line with the tresses and a
hook with a hairpin. With that impro-
vised outfit he provided food till the flood
went down.
❖ * *
“C. Coral” : What is now known as Banks
Island (Moa), in Torres Strait, is not the
original Banks Island so named by Bligh.
When making his expedition of discovery
with the Providence and Assistant in 1791
Bligh gave the name to the island which
Captain Edwards in the Pandora had
found and named only a few months before
when trying to find a passage through the
Barrier with the Bounty mutineers aboard.
Bligh was, of course, unaware of that.; and
so Edwards’s name of Murray Island has
been retained, and Bligh’s appellation shifted
to the place which he had earlier called
Mountainous Island. Some other of Bligh’s
chart-names in the Strait have also gone
by the board: for instance,-’the Clarence
Archipelago and Prince Edward Islands.
It was on North Possession . Island.'just oil’
Banks, that Bligh hoisted the flag and
claimed the Torres Strait islands for Britain
—a. good stroke of work, as it has since
turned out.
"Murrungurry”: At least three places in
N.S.W. are noted for phantom lights—
Tinonee, on the Manning River; One Tree
Plain, near Hay ; and Yarradool, near Pil-
laga. The “Tinonee Ghost,” as it was
called, appears from time to time on a
marshy flat near the town, thence travels
quiekly up the neighboring hill and vanishes.
It is a bobbing light supposed to be due to
marsh gas. In the other cases there is no
marsh or surface water. Many a traveller
lias been scared by the wandering glimmer on
the One Tree Plain, known locally as the
“Ghostly Coach” and the “Phantom Mail.”
At different times mounted parties went
after it, but cduldn’t catch up to it. The
Yarradool light first stirred up phantom
interest many years ago. That flitting lumi-
nant bobs along for hundreds of yards.
Binghi’s idea was £hat the mysteries were
spirits, and if the light fell on anyone some
terrible disaster would follow.
“Kooragai”: The recent slaughter of emus
recalls the trade that used to be done in
the ’nineties with the eggs of the giant fowl.
In Queensland nearly every boundary-rider
was a collector. One man in 1894 sent over
1100 eggs to Sydney for the- season, and got
Is. each for them. When on their rounds
each man took ah old pair of trousers with
him. The eggs were packed in, the legs,
a piece of string being tied above each one
so that no two could knock together, till the
swag looked like a string of huge sausages.
The load was then easily carried round the
man’s shoulders or the horse’s neck. At
the same time camps of professional emu-
eggers were common during the winter in
Riverina and other parts of N.S.W. These
collectors were largely responsible for re-
ducing the flocks in the eastern States.
“V.S.M.”: Every now and then someone
writes to the M.L. papers protesting vigor-
ously against the importation of a wasp to
combat the cabbage butterfly. The belief is
that this wasp is the celebrated disturber
of a quiet life in England. As a matter
of fact the newcomer (Apanteles glomera-
tus) is devoid of sting, and, as it eats no-
thing during that stage of its life when it
is on the wing, it can do no damage. On
the other hand, it does a great deal of good
by puncturing the larvae of the Fieris rapm
butterfly and laying its eggs in the unwel-
coming body of its host. Three or four
weeks later the parasites emerge by the
dozen from what they. have left of the
doomed butterfly caterpillar. Then each one
spins itself a silken blanket, wraps itself
up, and proceeds through the stage of pupa-
tion to adolescence. In its last st age _ the
wasp is only about an eighth of an inch
long in the body.
“Rambler”: Binghi’s customs and super-
stitions are usually rooted in commonsense.
For instance, among the coastal tribes of
the N.T. the unmarried boys are forbidden
to eat flesh meat. Their diet is lily roots,
yams, etc. They are taught that if they
infringe this rule the animal partaken of
will come to life inside them and gnaw their
vitals. After a boy has attended certain
corroborees and has been duly admitted into
the councils of the tribe, the ban is removed.
The object of this restriction is twofold.
In the 'first place, the younger members of
the tribe are naturally the most active
hunters, and the “old men,” who have per-
haps tw 0 or more lubras and piccaninnies
to feed, reap the benefit of the, younkers
labors. A meatless diet also serves to curb
the exuberance of the young bucks, and
makes them move amenable to discipline.
GETTING BACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s not so much’ the getting there.
Though that is hard enough;
You'll fi. d a heap to face and bear
When things are growing rough.
But where there’s one who keeps bis wits,
Whom firm' resolve impels,
It’s not the onward, journey, it’s
The getting back' that tells.
I’ve seen'a lot of men set out.
Men who were reckoned shrewd.
Who seemed to know their way about.
With confidence endued ; .
And some of them got there all right,
And made a decent whack.
But I’ve’ seen many, a sorry sight
As they came drifting back.
It matters little where you go,
You might come back some day. .
You can’t, for all you think you know,
Be. always in the play.
A thing for which you don’t allow
Will make you lose your grip;
Then: everything depends on hciw
You make the. backward trip.
I’ve; seen men going to the pack
Because they’ve stopped a clout
And couldn’t face the getting back
To where they started out.
And that’s the worst of all the hells
1 You’re like to know on earth.
Yes, it’s the getting, back that tells
Just what a man is -worth.
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(,opp. Railway Station),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms :: 200 Bath 3
I*
n
RSiiiniiii?
« is
ffjj
it (i
Melbourne's Most Modern Hotel.
Rates per day:
Room and meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from 12/6
THIS LARGE INSURANCE COMPANY
CONSIDERED THE “COURIER” TO BE
The Very Best Medium
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assurance Co. sought the most effective and economical
method of making an announcement to Queensland people. They chose the “Brisbane
Courier,” and wrote us:—
you may be interested to know that those present were unanimous in
saying that the ‘Brisbane Courier’ was the very best medium, for that teas the
paper they always noticed in the homes of the people with whom they came in
contact,
( Signed) “A. J. HENDERSON,
“General Manager
The “Brisbane Courier” has been “the very best medium” for 87 years.
&/ie
Brisbane Courier
Representative: ROBT. D. FISHER, 7 k Pitt Street, Sydney—Bsoo7 .
/memberV
4mjiD!lti I
JIB'UICIEA'U t>»
OußC'WUVflliDSfi
Has a Greater
Circulation and a
Greater Number of
Home Deliveries
Than Any Queensland Daily
Newspaper.
The
Sunday Mail
Brisbane
This great newspaper goes into the homes of
the people of Brisbane when they have leisure
to read. It is a journal of character and
distinction and presents features that appeal
to every member of every household. If you
want to fully cover the Brisbane market at
small cost, this is your paper.
Rates and other particulars from
ROBT. JACKSON.
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
SMOKE-OH!
Peace is still making a big hit in Ireland.
* *
As a pessimist commend us to Theodore.
He could see no hope in the “World.”
* *
“New York has produced a four-year-old child
who writes poetry.”
Apparently the kid has learned to scrawl
before it can talk.
THE ENGLISH XI ARRIVES.
“Labor Daily.”-—There is a sinister signi-
ficance in the arrival here of a party of
Englishmen purporting to be cricketers, but
who are reputed in well-informed circles
to be emissaries of that bloodsucking octo-
pus the Rank of England. We urge all good
Australians not to be deluded by the cloak
of sport which these myrmidons of Niemeyer
wear. What are they here for hut to size
up the financial situation', as indicated by
the gate receipts, on behalf of the usurious
British bondholders?
“S. M. Herald.” —The M.iC.C, cricket
team arrived in Sydney yesterday, and
appear to be an admirable body of young
men to whom we may look for all those
traditional attributes of English sportsman-
ship which make the grand old game what
it is. The Nawab of Pataudi, the Indian
member of the team, a very superior type,
has, we are pleased to learn, always paid
his salt taxes, and never spoken to Gandhi.
“Daily Telegraph.”—Bright Aussie sun-
shine greeted England’s Knights of the
Willow on their arrival here yesterday to
do battle with our Diggers of the Pitch
for the Ashes. The “D.T.” representative
was permitted to peep into some of their
trunks, and she can assure local cricket fans
that there is a real thrill in store for them
when they see the glorious blazers which
the visitors have brought with them. Pro-
bably the most handsome which has yet
visited us, the team is sure to be in great
demand with local hostesses.
Angus O’Cohen.
“No two men in the world are exactly
alike.”
“Well, I dunno. I’m not risking marrying
again, anyhow.”
“The lottery winner soon found his next-of-kine.”
—“Herald.”
Trust the cows to make themselves con-
spicuous in the circumstances.
* #
“The sheik of fiction has gone. lie now often
lives in a house and wears a collar and tie.”
So listeners-in may yet be lacerated by
the strains of “The Arab’s Farewell to His
Stud.”
* *
“When the garbage man called he took away
her radio set.” —Melbourne ivitness.
The programme that was coming through
at the time would probably explain the
mistake.
“Scientists are determining how the world can
best conserve its coal supplies.”
One obvious way is to give a freer hand
to union secretaries.
* V
DIARY OF A CIVIL SERVANT WHO
TELLS.
Monday, November 28. —Office stall’s post-
prandial catalepsy was rudely shattered
to-day when the new junior clerk, whose un-
natural vitality has revolted all. let the
ladder slip when getting down correspondence
files, and broke a window. Prepared explana-
tory letter to departmental head, registered
it. and passed it through usual channels.
Tuesday, December 6. —Minute from Chief.
Further particulars required as to how break-
age occurred; also junior clerk’s explanation
(together with his age. place of residence and
educational an d
other qu a 1 ific a-
tions) to he sub-
mitted on form
X 14258. Also wit-
-11 esse s’ reports.
Done. File grow-
ing.
Wednesday, De-
cember 21. —Receiv-
ed copy of letter
written by Chief
to Departmental
Engineer, instruct-
ing him to proceed
with repairs. File
assuming credit-
able proportions.
■ Monday, Janu-
ary 23. Chief
Engineer, Acting
Assistant Engineer,
Acting Temporary
Deputy Assistant
Engineer, Chief
Architect, Chief
Draft s m a n,
Foreman Glazier
and Foreman Car-
penter arrived and
went into consul-
tation. Chief En-
gineer suggested,
in interests of
economy, that brown-paper backing be
pasted over hole. Chief Architect re-
fused to accept responsibility, owing to
possibility of thief gaining entry thereby,
with danger of theft of valuable stocks of
red tape. Experts dispersed without coming
to a decision. File beginning to strain mill-
board covers.
Friday, March 2- —Further discussion by
combined technical staffs. Chief Engineer
instructed costing staffs to prepare esti-
mate of work on basis of contract price of
glass, plus general overhead at 785 p.c., plus
proportion of salaries of technical staffs,
costing stall's, etc., for consultation, inspec-
tion, costing, etc., etc. File split into two
portions for convenience.
Wednesday, June 28. —Letter received from
Chief !Engineer, advising that, as estimated
cost of replacement by department would be
£27 16s. lfd., it was deemed advisable, before
proceeding with work, to obtain quotations
from outside firms in view of possibility of a
lower price. Special cabinet built for file.
Th ursday, June 2F. —In view of urgency of
work, special telephonic instructions, con-
firmed by letter, to Messrs. Bloggs to carry
out replacement. Cost. Bs. fid., paid from
petty cash. File, now in four sections, car-
ried to correspondence necropolis and therein
formally deposited.
¥ #
“. .i .the advancement of sectional interests rather
than for the advantage of all the 2 people of Aus-
tralia.” —ill elbourne “Age.”
We .seem to be getting near our last man
as well as our last shilling.
GENEVA INTERVENES.
The special disarmament committee has
decided on the following innovations: —
Bats to be half the present size.
Wicketkeepers to be allowed only one
shout of “ ’Owzat?” per innings.
Cricketing boots to be prohibited—carpet
slippers three sizes too large to be worn.
All bowleys to bowl underarm at a speed
of not more than 5 m.p.h.
Fieldsmen to count three before returning
the ball.
Not more than one barracker to shout at
any one time.
Each team to be limited to three
preliminary daily-press articles booming its
mystery bowlers. g ji S q
* ¥
“Although the Stadium management are prepared
to go to almost any expense they can’t find suitable
opponents for Ambrose Palmer.”
Money to burn and no matches!
TIIE SAFE BET.
“It’s awful,” groaned the film importer.
“I can’t possibly show it. No one would
pay to see such trash.”
“Don’t be silly,” chided his partner. “I'll
make it the sensation of the year. Crowds
flocking to see it, newspapers booming it
as a masterpiece of Continental art. an’ a
glorious change after the vulgarities an’
ineptitudes of Hollywood’’——
“What the ?”
“Simple as falling off a log, my boy. All
we’ve gotter do is advertise it as ‘Another
Romance of Old Vienna.’ ”
Ced.
* *
THE NEW JOURNALISM.
Special Article in the “Daily Delirium.”
The picnic on a grand scale—for things
are done in style by the South Footscray
Younger Set—duly took
Better than Crosswords! See Yo Yo's
article on page 3.
place and it, was favored by the weather,
an integral
What is the measurement of your bust?
See intimate article by Diana , page 14.
DRUNK: “Hey! What about, having our hic-cups read?”
factor in the success of such festivities, and
one which not even crowned heads can
Free Insurance from Aeroplane Acci-
dents. Coupon, page T 9,
command. The picnic was at Bumpstead’s
Paddock. The rival site had its partisans to
the
What Does Your Teacup Tell? Arrest-
ing article by Marianne Moronne, page
14.
last, and it was certainly by far the more
picturesque spot of the
The New Bare-back Bathing Beauty
Competition. Enter Now! Details
page 6.
two; but. as generally happens, the choice
of those with whom lay the ultimate
See Stop Press For Last Race.
decision was for the more secluded locality.
Some of the young
How to tame goldfish. See fascinating
article by Pisces, page 7.
ladies, and' some of the young men, raved
about the delights of
Details of Cricket Scores. Sec page 2.
Nanny-goat Creek, which was considered a
most suitable retreat for
Enter for our splendid neic Coo-Goo
competition, girls! 37/6 in cash prizes.
Full particulars, page 13.
a really happy gathering. The alfresco
luncheon was quite a delightful feature of
the outing, and among the purple glories
of the everlasting hills a most enjoyable
time was spent by
Health Notes by Madame Mooney. How
to cure gumboils. Page 10.
all.
Fanny Fowlsnatcher.
* *
“City-dwellers are affected by this tax factor,
which prevents a fall in the cost of diving.”
—“Herald.”
Very odd! Since the completion of the
Bridge the cost of diving has been nil.
“There, no man could marry till he had single-
handed captured a shark and presented it to his
father-i n-law.” — “Herald.”
Another tost of nerve is for the prospec-
tive bridegroom single-handed to capture his
mother-in-law and hand her to a shark.
* *
A NAUTICAL ADVENTURE.
Fully rigged in evening-dress—they like
you to wear evening-dress nowadays—l
approached a £500,000 picture theatre, a
harmonious mixture of Boorish, Byzantine,
Baroque and Blitherbethan architecture;
circumnavigated the field-marshals who
paraded the front displaying far more pre-
cision than the average member of the c
zen defence force; beat up the broad charm
covered with red Brussels carpet which
to the upper regions ; paid off and ran
a free sheet through four magnificent toy e •
into a narrower strait beaconed «“a
mauve danger lights; started to sail cio. -
hauled in complete darkness down two a
a half miles of carpet-covered aisle m tac
of a strong head wind and a heavy searo
treacle setting from the direction of tn
Wurlitzer; lost my bearings,, so hove to an
signalled for a pilot, .six of whom imme-
diately came aboard with torches; readier 1
the entrance to the harbor; and by dintoi
luffing and paying off smartly round the
reefs, sandbars and promontories of three
fat ladies, two thin men, a flapper and othei
dangers to shipping, at. length cast anchor m
a seat that engulfed me with the loving
warmth and caressing softness of a mother s
lap.
I had no sooner got the sails on the caps,
all snugged down and a stern anchor out
to prevent drift in the direction of a sus-
picious-looking shallow on my port side,
unbeaconed except for a lipstick, when a sub-
marine emerged about 100 yards in front of
me with its crew playing a Wagnerian pot-
pourri and with the commander at the helm
in a fancy dress-suit and an apparent state
of hysteria. Taking my bearings from a
chart which I had found under the thwarts,
I calculated by dead reckoning that _ m.v
port of call was dead ahead, and within
three minutes’ distance. Consulting the bill
of lading, I learnt that the goods awaiting
me were “Love’s Leavings,” described as “an
Epoch-Making Picture in which a Woman
risks her All, a throbbing Story of Human
Heartbreak, a Tempest of Emotion.”
The submarine having submerged amidst
the frantic applause of a sea-loving com-
munity, the pilot station ahead started to
signal the impending arrival, in good order
and condition, with all its complement in
health and no signs of cpiarantinable dis-
eases. “Love’s Leavings” duly hove up
above the horizon. I had no sooner sighted
the craft than I began to roll and pitch with
emotion. My sheets flew w T ide, my staysail
blew out of the bolt ropes, the mainsail burst
its clew, and the planking started in a
dozen directions. Heeling to the blasts of
intense inward agitation, sometimes taken
all aback, but always rolling like a cray-
fish smack becalmed in the Rip, I felt
myself being driven furiously forward on
to the rocks of unmitigated passion which
gnashed their dark teeth above the white
waters of trepidation. Never had I been
in such a state of mental anarchy. Several
times the crew of my desires mutinied and
threw their officers overboard, leaving them
to scramble back as best they could, half
waterlogged.
Torn by the agonies of mental, moral,
physical and spiritual doubt and indeci-
sion, I was just on the point of aban-
doning the doomed vessel ere she crashed
upon the rocks, stove her side in, toppled
her masts over, drowned her complement like
unwanted puppies, pounded herself to pieces
as if willing, desiring and embracing her
own destruction, and strewed the strand
with her skin, flesh and pulverised skele-
ton, when “Love’s Leavings” came to port,
the lights went up. and I was enabled to
catch and kill the flea that had caused me
more emotion than I had previously felt in
any picture theatre.
Abel Seaman.
“What are we going to do this evening?”
“Let's take a couple of drinks and find out.”
They’re beginning to refer to it as the
Lottawars Agreement.
* *
DECLINE.
I purchased an Alsatian. How
I worshipped my possession!
The poor thing is a dachshund now —
Reduced hy the depression.
TOO LATE!
When first we met I was a lad
And she a dainty miss.
I sold my earthly freedom for
The rapture of a kiss.
Fool that, £ was! I never dreamt
My lapse would lead to this.
But it is folly to be wise
When ignorance was bliss!
P.O.M.C.


dv
mm
m
m
m
y>
m
THE GREATEST
SHIIIIMiS WORTH
Australia has
THE Australian Year Book satisfies your thirst for ‘general intormation.
Its 384 pages are packed with the facts and figures about all phases of cur-
rent Australian life and activity, arranged and indexed for immediate refer-
ence. So much book for so few pence has never been published in Australia
before! Get a copy for your home and office, and be sure a copy is available
for your children, to satisfy the eagerness for knowledge that all bnght Aus-
tralian kiddies possess
SCOPE OF THE YEAR BOOK
GOVERNMENT AND
ADMINISTRATION
The Government.
The Navy. The Army
The Air Force.
The -Bench.
Government Finances
Education in 1932.
Scientific and Industrial Research.
REVIEWS
Articles, reviewing the past year
and touching upon the future, by
Rt. Hon. J. A. Lyons,
Hon. B. S. B. Stevens.
Hon. Sir S. Argyle,
Hon. W. Forgan Smith.
Hon. L. L. Hill,
Hon. Sir J. Mitchell.
Hon. J. C. McPhee.
Professor Copland,
and many others.
POLITICS
Latest General Elections. Federal
and State. .
United Australia Party.
Political Labor in 1932.
New State Movement in 1932.
/PERSONALITIES
Biography Section:
500 Prominent Australians.
Decorated and Titled Australians:
The V.C.
Tire - Order of the Bath.
The Order of St. Michael and
. St. George. „ . . ,
•JThe Order of the British
Empire.
Knights Bachelor.
Australian Privy Councillors.
INDUSTRY
.The production of:
■Wool. Wheat. Meat.
.Fruit. Dried Vine Fruits.
.{.Wine. Canned Fruits.
•Dairying. Sugar.
(Coal. Gold. Overseas Trade.
Basic Wage Facts and Figures.
(Secondary Industries—Brief Re-
I yiew.
Company Operations.
Principal Public Companies of
Jh^ Ü Building Trade of. 1932.
FINANCE
Government Finances
Australian Security Values
Banking. Exchange Note Issue.
TRANSPORT AND
COMMUNICATIONS
Railways. Motor Transport.
Shipping.
Television and Picture Transmis-
sion in 1932.
Wireless in. 1932.
Post, Telegraph, Telephone and
Wireless Information.
Aviation in Australia
Motors in 1932-33.
Motor Legislation
RELIGION
The Churches in Australia.
Church of England Bishops.
Roman Catholic Bishops.
THE ARTS
Talkies in Australia.
Music in 1932. Opera in 1932.
The Theatre Wakes Up
Art in 1931-32.
RACING
Racing Season 1931-32.
Racehorse Records.
A Year of the Tote
Phar Lap’s Record.
Huge Winnings by Racehorses
Here and Overseas.
Results of Principal Races in
Australia since 1912.
CRICKET
Seeking the. Ashes.
Who’s Who of the Engli-sh Side,
Test Cricket Statistics.
English XI. Itinerary.
Don Bradman’s Records.
Cricket Season of 1931-32.
Sheffield Shield Statistics, Etc.
FOOTBALL
Rugby League Tests in 1932.
Rugby _Union Football.
Australian Rules Football in 1932,
Soccer in 1932.
OTHER SPORTING
ACTIVITIES
Tennis—Davis Cup
Tennis in Australia in 1932
State Tennis Championships
Golf in 1932
World’s Sculling Title.
Other Sculling Events
Yachting.
Olympic Games Results.
Records by Amateur Athletes for
the Worid, Australia and Olym-
pic Games.
World’s Professional Athletic
Records.
World’s Swimming Records.
Australian Swimming Records.
Boxing in 1932.
ETCETERA
Gazeteer of Australia.
Population Statistics.
Fashion Survey and Summary.
Life ■ Assurance in. Australia
Insurance Other than Life.
Friendly Societies in Australia.
Weather in 1932.
Hospitals in 1932.
Principal Newspapers in Australia.
The Consular Corps Throughout
Australia.
A Statistical Summary showing
Australia’s Progress since Fede-
ration.
dsf
—every man who works
with his brain.
sd
—every man who takes a
Qve intellectual interest
in the sports, government,
politics, business, progress
and general condition of
Australia.
N
■—every woman who likes
to be able to converse
interestingly about cur*
rent affairs.
f
-—every woman who has
children that come to her
for information.
a
—every child who is
learning to think for him-
self or herself and has
a healthy appetite for
knowledge about the
affairs of the Common-
wealth and its constituent
States.
AUSTRALIAN
YEAR BOOK
m
&
W,
m
m
0


NOW HERE
Efficiency with
Economy
mt
Iht NEW
&.m-
-m>,
-■
Engineered for Increased Economy of Operation and Upkeep. Setting New
Standards of Performance. 50-horsepower Engine. Greater Speed. 4-Speed I trans-
mission with Power Take-off. New Design Semi-elliptic Rear Springs. New Bi-
partite Coupling Shaft Easily Serviced. J Floating Axle. Special Cast Alloy Iron
Brake Drums Increase Brake Reliability. Longer and Stronger 7 in. Fiame.
Ford principle of Torcjue-tube Drive and Rear Radius Rods retained, lelieving
springs and frame of all driving strains, and ensuring alignment of axles at all times.
THREE CHASSIS TYPES.
1 TON (BB— 25). A Speed Truck Wheelbase 131 \ in.
30 x 5 8-ply tyres. Special high speed rear axle ensures
quick delivery, where speed rather than heavy haulage
is the essential requirement.
30-CWT. (BB—30). Wheelbase 131 { in. 32 x 6 8-ply
tyres. Built to carry rated load capacity under normal
conditions where high speed is not the essential factor.
Dual wheels optional at extra cost. Special
helper springs available for work involving
specially heavy loads.
2 TONS (BB—157). Wheelbase 157 in. 32 x 6 8-ply
tyres with dual rear wheels. 5-leaf helper spring
standard equipment. This Truck is admirably suited to
heavy duty haulage.
Open and Closed Cabs, in both of which special attention has
been paid to driver's comfort (built in Ford Plant at Geelong),
may be ordered with chassis. Full information re-
garding various body types Dropsides, Stakesides,
Vans, etc., available at all Ford Dealers.
dsf
COMPANY
O F
LTD
FORD MOTOR
AUSTRALI A PTY.
NT!


d
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILL
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess-
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to:—
PRODUCERS S' CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OP AUSTRALIA LTD,
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director: 11. Pell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and *
Agency Co., Ltd. £
SAVE AND PROFIT
Piling shillings one upon another may be a form of thrift, but it is a
risky method—and unprofitable. There is loss of profit because the
same money, placed in a Commonwealth Savings Bank, would earn
interest. There is risk of loss by fire, by burglary, even by inadvertence,
and, not so obvious but quite definite, there is the risk of temptation
to spend.
The Savings Bank Account is the logical place for your savings, for
there they both accumulate and earn interest. Thus your saving power
is multiplied, your savings become profitable, and you are less tempted
to spend wastefully.
Open your Account now.
Cbmmonwcaltb Savings Bank of BiistraHJ*
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
DOUBLING OUR PRODUCTION.
“J.W.W.”: I remember the Werribee Re-
search Farm (B. 2/11/’32) as a wind-swept
plain. It is now an object lesson in high
production. As a farming community we are
slow to realise that we have in many of
our wind-swept spaces splendid potentialities,
not only in Victoria, but in those parts of
N. and S.A. that have a good enough
rainfall. After a tour of these three States
I have come to the conclusion that we can
double our output, and later on treble it.
Wind-swept places should first be ploughed
up rough in high furrows, and let lie up
to sun and wind to catch the dust and
sand as much' as possible, say for from
thi ■ee to six months. This dust and sand,
being.very fine, is water-soluble, as nearly
all wind-blown soil is, and acts as a ferti-
liser. If we now break down the high
furrows with heavy harrows to a fine tilth,
we are in a position to grow a crop of
nearly any of the ordinary cereals. If icwt.
to lcwt. of super, is put in along with the
grain, it will much more than pay for its
cost. Should it not be. desired to sow cereals,
Wimmera ryegrass, red clover and (in
suitable areas) sub. clover will make good
grazing paddocks. So much for the wind-
swept places. Now for salty grounds in
irrigation areas, often locally supposed to
be useless. A very good example of these
may be found at Tresco (Vic.), where the
salt got. so bad as to kill off most vegeta-
tion. Let anyone now visit this area and
see what Mr, Houfe and a few others are
doing. I found Mr. Houfe growing good
trefoil and clovers where nothing but salt-
weed would do previously, and everything
else had died. He grades the land in such
a way as to have short " “bays” and a good
fall. This is to ensure getting the water
“quickly on and quickly off’—the secret of
all good irrigation practice. It means
thorough grading; but it means also good
crops and immunity from salt.
As an instance of how production can
be increased, here are the figures of the
farm best known to me. I • bought it
in. 1920. The former owner had milked a
maximum of 20 cows, but was short of feed
(and had to buy) every winter. He thought
he was getting a fair return from the 95
acres of irrigation land. Since coming into
its present hands it has grazed 50 per cent,
more cattle and horses, arid has sold an
average of 260 tons of lucerne chaff per
year; last year it sold more. I believe it
can still double its output by (1) better
grading, (2.) rotational grazing and (3)
more top-dressing
COW-FARMING IN RIVERINA.
“Agri” : Riverina cow-cockies are not
such newcomers to the game as “Valeria”
(B. 16/11/’32) would have ns believe.
Many of them have been at it for a long
time. As a rule, the dairy is run as a
sideline, bcirig often managed by the women-
folk. The herd is from four to twelve cows.
In droughts the farmer’s hay supply is
drawn upon to keep the cows in milk. In
the 1918-19 drought some of the dairy-
farmers sold their butter locally at 2s. Od.
Per lb.
Where new r dairies have come into exis-
tence, you generally find regulation build-
ings, and the necessity of f,odder conserva-
tion has been well attended to. I know of
three farms in one district which have sood
supplies of pit ensilage on hand, the silage
being iriade, from black oats’or “dirty” crop.
Some of the Riverina dairies are nearly
twenty miles from towns. In such cases
the road-mail, motor-van is used for getting
their produce to rail.
THE MYSTERY OF RED WATER.
No continent i.s free from the cattle dis-
ease known as redwater. It is not wide-
spread in Australia; oddly enough, it occurs
most, persistently in one of our most fertile
districts, Mount Gambier (S.A.). It has
been known there for half a century or more,
and has‘been the cause of serious losses to
local dairymen. Yet there are farms in the
redwater area which have never had a case.
Three South Aus. scientists, L. B. Bull,
O. G. Dickinson and A. T. Dann, have
traced the history of redwater in the Mount
Gambier country for the Council for Scien-
tific and Industrial Research. They find
that it “occurs chiefly in the dairy cows on
those farms situated about the old volcanoes,
Gambier and Schank. In the past it was
also common on farms and cattle stations
situated some miles from these centres, Such
as Glencoe, 1.1 miles north-west of Mount
.Gambier.” Most of the redwater farms are
within the area of basaltic-ash deposit. “On
one, two miles north of Mount Gambier,
the disease has been prevalent for 30 years,
except for a period of 10 years, during
which the stock was given rock salt, but
later refused to take it. This farm is sepa-
rated by a road from a farm on which the
disease is alleged never to have made its
appearance.”
Another farmer with a herd varying in
strength from 12 to 28 leased a paddock,
“stale and ferny,” which had not been
ploughed for years. His own farm was
cultivated with manures and cropped in rota-
tion. While he leased the paddock he had
six cases of redwater; he has had no further
cases since he gave it up. “A Mount Scliank
man had a herd of about 20 head for 20
years on country about half a mile from
the mountain without any cases of redwater
developing. Later, he leased a paddock of
16 acres close to the foot of the mountain,
and in the following five years had three
cases of the disease. There was no water
in that paddock; the cows grazed there only
during the day, being taken home at evening
and given water from the supply they had
always had. This leased paddock had not
been ploughed for some years and was heav-
ily overgrown with ferns and sorrel, though
there was also a good growth of clovers.
Later reports from this farmer indicate that
although he is still using the leased paddock
he has had no further cases of redwater for
four years.”
It was surmised that deficiency of man-
ganese in the soil might account for the red-
water ; but the investigators had to abandon
this theory, after testing it. A botanical
survey failed to indicate any difference in
the herbage and grasses between redwater
farms and those on which the disease does
not occur. Many farmers believe that rock
salt is a preventive, and some that it has
curative properties; but redwater frequently
occurs on some farms where these methods
are practised. Mr. Bull and his col-
leagues acknowledge that they cannot give
cause or'cure. “It. would appear that the
disease is the result of some abnormality
in the pasture. This might be a deficiency
either in an inorganic or organic substance.
Possibly “some plant food is leached from
the soil, and as a result the plants fail to
form some organic compound which the cow'
requires, or they form some compound
which is harmful.” In Canada, the writers
conclude, “the addition of ground coral rock
to the feed appears to be giving encouraging
results.”
SUB.-CLOVER IN WESTRALIA.
“Groper”: Gippsland’s experience of sub.-
clover (B. 26/10/’32) has been paralleled in
the Mt. Barker district, south Westralia. Mt.
Barker is locally famous for apples and
pears, and of recent years attention has been
given to sheep-raising. Natural grasses were
fairly abundant- —the rainfall is 30in. but
they, were lacking in nutritive value, so
clovers were introduced. Sub. soon proved
itself the most suitable variety, and, with
super, applied, it grew more luxuriantly than
in its home in- Southern Europe. The splen-
did fodder provided has more than trebled
the value of the country for pasturage.
Where sheep-raising was a mere side-line, it
is now in many instances the main industry.
WILD LUCERNE.
“Townsville’: : The Queensland Director
of Agriculture has issued a statement
explaining the habits and distribution of
wild lucerne (B. 26/10/’32). He first
noticed the plant about Townsville in 1912 ;
it is now distributed in coastal areas from
Cooktown to St. Lawrence. When grown
under favorable conditions it has a close
resemblance to ordinary lucerne. In habit
of growth, it is more recumbent and spread-
ing, forming a dense green mat when closely
grazed down.
Wild lucerne is a summer-growing annual,
appearing in early spring and lasting well
into the winter, a feature of importance.
From observations made in the Mackay
district it would appear that its period of
seeding is during late summer. This late-
maturing habit may be a handicap to its
self-propagation in temperate districts, owing
to the season being too short for seed pro-
duction. The angular-shaped seed is smaller
than that of ordinary lucerne and has a
tough bristle attachment, about fin. long,
with a characteristic hook at the end. These
hooks project from a fan-shaped container
and readily attach themselves to the hairs
on the legs of stock. It is likely, however,
that the main (.source of distribution is
through stock grazing on the plant when it
is •in the seeding stage, a heavy germina-
tion usually eventuating from the. manure.
Its first appearance in a district is invari-
ably in a station yard, and straying stock
grazing in the yard distribute the plant
along the roads.
Wild lucerne prefers a soil with a firm
bottom; it rarely shows up in deep loams
where vegetation such as tail grass is in
evidence. Those who desire to give this use-
ful pasture plant a trial will therefore
obtain best results by sowing on a compara-
tively hard seed-bed and mulching with a
little yard manure. Queensland depart-
mental stocks of seed are exhausted, but
supplies can be obtained from a Mackay
man. In feeding qualities wild lucerne
compares well with the ordinary variety.
MERINO EWES AS MOTHERS.
“Golightly”: Net returns for fat lambs
this season are nothing to boast about; still,
we have been getting the cash. Until prices
improve it may pay farmers to stock merino
owes as mothers for their fat lambs and
ensure a better wool clip. Four-year-old
merino .ewes cut profitable fleeces and are
now cheap. I bought two-, three- and four-
year-olds. one mark, off shears, at 4s. per
head and am assured of an early drop of
lambs, having joined them with Dorset
ranis on October 1.
Dorsets on merinos mate any time, but
these rams, as with most British breeds,
are gross feeders and their herd instinct in
comparison with merinos is weak. They
prefer the ample feed provided by a special
ram paddock, and when taken to the shorter
pastures of the ewe paddocks are liable to
make back or sulk in a corner until shifted.
To avoid this ! join ewes in the ram pad-
dock, leaving them until it is eaten out;
afterwards the fresher feed of ewe paddocks
contents the rams. This practice may prove
profitable" to farmers with other British
breeds of rams. Anyway, the crowding of
the flock at mating-time is all to the-good.
TOO-EARLY SHEARING.
“Mulgo”; Heavy losses of sheep have ,
occurred on N.S.W. stations because cold
weather set in immediately after shearing,.
The same thing happens somewhere or other
almost every season, though not in Queens-
land, where the climate 'is more favorable
to early shearing than elsewhere. The
farther south, the latex* should be the com-
mencing date for shearing, yet many N.S.W.
sheds start before those of Queensland.
The sheep’s coat is its natural protection
against cold. When the animal is stripped
of it before the warm weather has arrived
it is subjected to much suffering, and the
start of the new growth of wool is also
affected. Cold snaps and wet spells of
early spring do the most damage. Where
they can find shelter for a few days the
harm is not so great, though even in a shed
a cold snap is severe on naked sheep. On
many of the wide plains there is hardly any
shelter from bleak winds and driving rain.
Whatever advantages there might bp in
getting in early with the wool would not
be lost if there were a general postponement
for a month or so, and there would be little
or none of the disadvantages in animal
suffering and loss of sheep. Another point
is that on the tail of a hard winter numer-
ous flocks are at their worst physically,
whilst in mid-spring they are stronger and
better able to withstand the knocking about
they get in the drafting and shearing.
QUEENSLAND FOR TOBACCO.
“Wodgil”; It seems only the other day
since The Bulletin was inveighing against
the folly of importing £2,500,000 to £3 000,000
worth of manufactured tobacco evei’y year and
suggesting North Queensland as the place
where good leaf could be grown. Now we
have the Queensland Department of Agri-
culture reporting that in Mareeba alone
“420 growers are cultivating 1890 acres for
tobacco; the estimated return is 945.0001 b.
of cured leaf, valued at £lOO,OOO. A further
large area is in course of preparation.” And
Mareeba tobacco has made a name for itself
far beyond the borders of Queensland. “On
present figures,” the Queensland department
continues, “the area cropped for tobacco in
Queensland for the 1931-32 season is esti-
mated at 4500 acres, giving a total prospec-
tive yield of 2,750,0001 b. of cured leaf” —
worth at least £300,000.
As recently as 1930 Queensland had only
159 acres under tobacco; in fact, the total
for Australia in the 1929-30 season was
2470 acres, Victoria leading with 1522 acres.
Some unemployed-relief money has gone to
the development of Mareeba, and it has cer-
tainly been money well spent. No one will
dispute the statement of tin- ITnder-Seci'e-
tary of the Queensland Labor Department
that “areas which conform to the climatic
and soil requirements necessary to produce
a good-quality tobacco arc still to be found
in Queensland.” The Government is satis-
fied that Beerburrnm is one of them; so
“with the hearty co-operation ax\d under
the administration, of the Secretary of Agri-
culture 100 families,” taken from the un-
employed, “have been established on Beer-
burrum in tobacco-farming.” The market
is still ample if soil, climate and faming
methods are right; here’s luck to the 100
families, anyhow!
POSSIBILITIES OF AN ACRE.
“A.C.8.”: It comes natural to Austra-
lians to think in hundreds or thousands of
acres. Few realise what an acre of good
ground systematically worked will produce.
We can’t all get a living off one acre, but
there are Australians who are doing it.
On the Nambucca (N.S.W.) you can find
men who have taken £l2O worth of tomatoes
off an acre in four months; and that leaves
time for another crop. An acre under
rhubarb has yielded 36,000 bunches, worth
£3OO or more. The Bulletin quoted an
instance recently where £330 per acre was
harvested from a W.estralian apple orchard. 1
haw; known an acre of cucumbers (growing
time, a little over two months) to return
the grower £3OO. Forty good lettuce can
be raised on a space 10ft. by 22ft.; so
can 110 beets, 348 radishes and 130 onions.
If you have a bit of onion land, and can
get a crop during one of the periodical
shortages, there is a good living in an acre.
MAKING VINEGAR.
“Larrapinta” : First, you require two empty
wine or beer casks or kegs; they must not
have been used for pickling. One must have
the head in, the other can be open at the top.
Wash each cask by thoroughly soaking with
water which contains no soap; then steri-
lise with several buckets of boiling water.
Next place in the cask which has the head
in a mixture composed of four parts of
honey to one of water —rain-water which
has been boiled and allowed to cool
down until it is just tepid. Pour this into
the cask, which must be lying on its side,
through the bung, and add a few gallons of
strained fruit juice, obtained from apricots,
peaches, apples or grapes. Use nothing but
sound fruit.
Your honey need not be first-grade; sec-
ond-grade stuff, which most beekeepers
will supply at about 10s. per 60-lb. tin t will
do. Add a small quantity of yeast to the
contents of the cask, drive the bung in
tight, and bore a small but cleanly-cut hole
through the centre, to liet the gas escape.
This is the vitally important part of the
job: if the stuff is fermented in an open
ca.sk all softs of other ferments get into
the liquor. The small hole prevents this, for
the constant stream of gas which passes
out prevents other stray bacteria from gain-
ing entrance. Do this fermentation in a
warm shed; if the nights are cold cover
the cask with bags to retain the heat every
night.
In six weeks’ time the fermentation will
have ceased and the liquor will have cleared.
Syphon it out into the open cask, taking
care not to suck up the sediment in the
bottom, and after adding a small quantity
of new vinegar to the liquor tie a piece of
cheesecloth over the top. Leave the keg
standing for three months, skim the top of
the vinegar perfectly clean, syphon it into
bottles or flagons, seal them with corks and
sealing-wax, and store in a cool room or
cellar. If these instructions are faithfully
adhefed to you will have vinegar equal to
anything which you can buy. Store the
casks away in a dry shed after the job is
done, and they can be used time and again.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
('Transferred from Service Department .)
What progress has been made with the
Dawson River irrigation settlement a!
> Theodore, Q’land? — 2753.
All the farms opened for selection have
being taken up, and additional lion-irrigated
areas below Theodore with river frontages,
which were subdivided into 1000-acre blocks,
were also settled as soon as thrown open.
So far only one settler has availed himself
of the opportunity to instal his own pump-
ing plant. Principal crops grown are cotton,
lucerne and other stock fodders, potatoes,
onions, tomatoes, etc. Onions, which ripen
before the southern crops, usually command
a good price, and the Cracow mines will
probably stimulate the production of vege-
tables and fresh fruit.
Around Cloncurry at present horses are
suffering from a shin disease. It begins
with small pimples and lumps, which dry
and allow the hair to fall out. These gradu-
ally run together and form a larger dry
patch devoid of hair. Kerosene and fat
clears it up. What is the name of the
disease and the approved treatment ? —2808.
Probably the horses are suffering from
chorioptic mange, the only form of mange
known to exist among horses in Australia.
There is no specific remedy. Usual treat-
ment is to clip the areas affected and wash
(Continued on next page.)


You get more mileage* out of
hand-sewn shoes
Here is a hand-made Abbey Shoe
that outlasts any machine-sewn foot-
wear. It keeps its shape better and
stands much more resoling. Wear-
ing Abbey Hand-sewn Shoes you
actually spend less on footwear
because you need new shoes less
frequently. They’re made of the
best leathers, and the uppers are
shaped to accommodate every curve
of the foot.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also,
a tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d.) or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 70/-
BLACK BOX CALF . . 70/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 309
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
“The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postace 2d. extra.
Obtainable from “The Bulletin” Office,
all States.
NEW
The MIRACLE
FINISH
D
U
L
REGD.
Not a paint,
varnish,
lacquer
or enamel
Combining scientific and
technical research with
practical paint experience,
British Australian Lead
Manufacturers Pty. Ltd.,
have succeeded in develop-
ing a new and sensational
product that sets new stan-
dards of durability in fin-
ishing materials. Ask for
full details regarding
DULUX FINISH. It may
be the means of saving
you large sums of money.
Obtainable from principal Oil and Colour
Merchants in all States
British Australian Lead
Manufacturers Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE SYDNEY ADELAIDE
m
Dependable/
Craig &Aitken
DisWbubrj I
Sydney N S.W.
nr
»OWER
1 depends on
lubrication ■«_
for Heavy Duty
or Light
ana
ALEMITE Lubricants
give that saving protective film which pre-
vents the costly friction of metal against
metal. The modern power vehicle demands
specialized lubricants . . . and ALEMITE
meets every requirement—from differen-
tial to water pump. And all the better if
equipped with the Alemite High Pressure
Lubrication System . . . pressure forces
out dirt, grit and metal particles, to be re-
placed by the needed and proper lubricant.
K-Aust 2-32
ALEMITE CORPORATION • • Chicago, U. S. A.
Cable Address: ALMIT- Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH, Resident Manager
654 George Street, Sydney, N. S.W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES, Ltd., Brisbane ATKINS (W.A.), Ltd., 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide
them with a 1 P-c. solution of bicarbonate
of soda, or with soft soap, to remove all
crusts and scurf. Then rub with 10 P-c.
carbolic acid in glycerine, or with a 5 p.c.
crcolin wash. Kerosene and fat is prob-
ably quite efficient.
If a person in N.S.W. owns more them
one sheep-dor/ is it sufficient to register one.
or must all he registered? —2SBs.
As the law stands, all should be regis-
tered. A proposed amendment to the Dog
and Goat Act contemplates the payment
of one registration fee only in cases where
a number of dogs are kept solely for the
purpose of driving or managing cattle or
sheep, or for destroying rabbits or other
vermin. In the meantime the police, have
been advised that, except in special circum-
stances, graziers need not be prosecuted for
the non-registration of sheep-dogs.
If I put a man on to work for seven or
eight days hay-carting, must I insure him
under the N.S.W. Workmen's Compensation
Act? —2993.
Yes.
What length of notice must he given a
neighbor in N. S. Wales of one's intention
to erect wire-netting on a houndary fence?
—3084.
Under the Dividing Fences Act a man
can call on the owner of adjoining land
to assist in equal proportions in repairing
a fence. If there is no compliance within
six months he may go on with the work
and claim in court half the cost. What
you propose, however, is not in the nature
of repairs, but an addition to suit your
own convenience. In respect of that you
have no claim against your neighbor.
Titles and prices of hooks dealing with
gas producers and small suction gas engines?
—3052.
“Gas Engines and Gas Producers,” by
Marks, 205.; “Gas, Oil and Petrol Engines,”
by A. Jarrard, 10s.; “Gas and Oil Engine
Management,” by M. Powis Bale, ss. 3d.
Useful data may be found in “The Engi-
neers’ Year Book,” published by Crosby
Lockwood and Son, London.
The ' lirnhs of my lemon and mandarin
trees wither at the tips and then turn black,
and the blackness travels down and eventu-
ally kills the houghs. The trees are about
10 years old and until the present have
given splendid results. During the last
three years we have had only ISin. of rain.
The trees are watered by irrigation from a
bore drain; the water is cool and practically
free from minerals. Near-by orange trees
are quite healthy. What can be done for
the trees? —2342.
Carefully examine the roots for signs of
disease. If these are healthy and if low
temperatures were experienced during the
past winter, the damage is possibly the re-
sult of frost. It is not advisable to remove
dead limbs in a hurry. Wait several months
or a year until new branches have become
established. Good cultural methods such
as the application of a general fertiliser and
careful cultivation should be practised in
order to encourage this new growth. The
dead limbs may then be pruned out, and
the cut surfaces disinfected with Bordeaux
Paste or corrosive sublimate (1 in 1000).
After a week or so when the wood has
dried out the cut surfaces should be covered
with some waterproofing material such as
grafting wax or white, lead paint, etc. If
the trees have been greatly defoliated, the
trunks and large limbs should be painted
with _ whitewash to protect them from sun-
burning. In moist situations where para-
sitic fungi may attack the trees through
wounds, such wounds should be treated with
Bordeaux paste, or about 31b. of bluestone
may be added to 50gal. of whitewash.
Recipe for preserving ripe tomatoes? —
Scald and peel ripe tomatoes carefully
to avoid breaking them, then pack into pre-
serving jars. Cover with water which has
been salted to taste, stand in water in a
large pot with straw beneath and around
to prevent cracking of jars, place lids
in position with new rubbers, and bring to
the boil. Boil for 30 minutes, screw lids
down tightly, and stand the jars upside
down. If there is no leakage in 12 hours
store away in a cool place; if there is
leakage, boil up again and screw tightly,
and test again by standing upside down.
Must be perfectly airtight and sterilised to
keep well.
How to make pineapple wine from fresh
fruit?—, 3o76.
Cut up 51b. pineapple, bruise it well, and
put in a dish with lgal. of water; leave for
two 1 days, stirring frequently. Strain off
the liquid, add 21b. loaf sugar, and when
dissolved add the rind of 1 lemon and Joz.
isinglass. Leave for six days, and when
fermenting ceases and the liquor is quiet,
draw off. the wine and place it in a cask.
Leave for 14 days before corking.
(1) What is the most suitable soil for
native flora? (2) Best varieties of wild
flowers to grow just outside the N.S.W.
coastal area? —3200.
(1) Soil should contain a mixture of sand
and. leaf-mould, and should have perfect
drainage. (2) Christmas bush, eriostemon
(wax flowers), bottle brush, flannel flower,
waratah," prostanthera and boronia can all
be grown with care. Do not give new
mahure or strong fertilisers to any of the
native flora, and be liberal with water.
. How to make (1) 10 gallons of carbolic
liquid soap for cleaning floors , and (2) 10
gallons of liquid toilet soap? —3o33.
(1) Put into a kerosene-tin of water 1 tin
of caustic soda, 1 small packet of Lux, Jib.
borax, Jib. resin and 71b. clean, clarified
dripping, free from fat. Boil slowly for
two hours, set aside from the fire until
partly cool, then stir in half a pint of
phenol, and add sufficient water to bring
the mixture up to 5 gallons; double the
quantities for 10 gallons, but use a very
large boiler, as it is inclined to boil over.
Add more water if wanted very liquid, and
store in tins. (2) This is expensive and a
little difficult to make. The measurements
in parts are by weight for all ingredients.
Cotton oil, 200 parts; alcohol of 91 p.c.,
300 parts; water, 320 parts; caustic soda,
45 parts; potassium carbonate, 10 parts ;
ether, 15 parts; carbolic acid, 25 parts. Put
the' oil in a large bottle with 100 parts of
the .water, 200 parts of the alcohol, and 45
parts of tlio caustic soda. After saponifi-
cation has taken place, add the remaining
alcohol and the potassium carbonate dis-
solved in the rest of the water; finally add
the carbolic acid and the ether, and shake
the whole well together. Fill the mixture
into' tightly-closed bottles, and store at a
medium temperature. Ten gallons will
weigh approximately 1001 b., so arrange the
weights of the items in the mixture accord-
ingly.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“4BC”: When rams’ heads become raw
from fighting, it is hard to get tar or dip
to adhere to prevent the fly or heal the
wound. Try tying flannel, Sin. by 3in., round
their horns, with a big bow on top,
saturating the lot with fly oil. This holds
the oil, heals the sore and prevents the fly
from striking.
“Wandi”: When grass seed of the sort
that gets into sheep’s eyes and wool is
beginning to ripen, the sheep should be re-
moved, and after an interval to allow the
seed to drop the grass should be burnt.
Two or three weeks after rain there will be
clean, succulent pasture for the woollies.
Burrs should be rooted out before they seed.
The cost is little compared to what is lost
in the difference between the prices of clean
and burry wool.
“W. 0.”: My horse developed a “bung” eye,
discharging water and matter. Before start-
ing work I mixed half a pint of boracie
solution, and with a lmnd-blower (Jin.
rubber bulb and Bin. wooden nozzle) I
squirted the liquid into his eye. No im-
provement by midday, so I mixed a very
weak Condy’s solution. It made him blink
a bit, but by nightfall the swelling had
almost subsided. I completed the cure with
a mixture of both solutions. There has been
no recurrence.
“5817”: Ploughing a * firebreak round
grass or stubble paddocks each year throws
a ridge against the fences, and where growth
has been rank, often leaves a trail of rub-
bish across which fire can creep. Try going-
round about 4 a.m. with a fire rake. At
this time fire will not run, even in barley
grass, and yet all rubbish over which the
r/ike passes is burned clean away. But
don’t drive too fast. You can cover a lot
of ground before 6 a.m.; after that it is
best to knock off and walk back, seeing that
burning stumps or manure are safe.
“5817” : When the hole in your car tyre
is too large for . a sleeve to hold in the tube,
get a few links of binder chain and a ham ■
strap. Put a substantial sleeve inside
cover, and before inflating secure links
round outside of cover, drawing ends of
chain together under the rim with the strap.
The links will work at the joints as the
wheel revolves, and the tyre gives to the
road and will last for months. Incidentally,
a few of these chain-link straps secured
round back tyres of any car help them to
hold on slippery roads.
“Wonga” : A good makeshift for a one-
man lifter. Cut three saplings, each about
15ft. long and about Bin. at the small ends.
Tie together at the small ends into a tripod,
having the ends on the ground sharp to pre-
vent slipping, and at convenient distances
apart. Tie the object to be lifted to the
top of the tripod, and move the bottoms of
each sapling in rotation towards the centre.
One man can lift almost anything in this
manner.
“Mudgee”: In marketing lucerne hay it
pays to put it up attractively. Mudgee
(N.S.W.) lucerne is always pressed in bales
weighing ljcwt. to 2cwt. —usually with four
battens and two wires—and bales pressed
by some of the district experts fit together
in a truck as neatly as bricks. Buyers
prefer a truck of well-pressed bales to the
other sort.
“Karaway”: I have noticed small dams
in dairy paddocks where the water was
unfit even for stock to drink. If two sides
were planted with reed grass (the green
reeds that grow in water) or a few water-
lilies, it would keep clear and wholesome.
Without some’plants of the sort, any small
confined body of water regularly visited
by stock soon becomes foul.
“F.A.R.” : If the turkey is laying in the
crop, don’t waste time watching where she
goes in. Wait till she comes out and follow
the new tracks left. Turkeys generally
wander all over the place before laying, and
then creep underneath to the nest.
“Gumblegubbin”: For black smut on
orange trees I have found spraying with
soapsuds an excellent cleaner. This also
gets rid of aphides.
“Kooragai”: A successful method of fox-
poisoning on the Murrumbidgee and there-
abouts is with a sheep’s liver, cut into
pieces about the size of an egg and
dosed with strychnine. A trail is made
with the fresh entrails of the sheep, placed
in a bran-bag on which some blood has
been allowed to drip, and dragged along the
ground behind a vehicle. The baits are
dropped about 300 yards apart. The baits
are not touched with the hand, and the
driver does not get down on the ground on
any part of the trail.
“Poley” : Boundary fences should be bull-
proof. A fence with netting 4ft. above
ground level, with barb 4in. higher, is the
thing. Ordinary rabbit-proof fencing can
be made secure against cattle by adding a
strip of netting lft. wide, with the further
protection of a barb on top.
“Alt. George”: Re blackleg, there is a
belief in this district (Wingham, N.S.W.)
that if goats are run in the same paddocks
as young cattle no further infection will
take place. I have inquired of three graziers
who have tried it, and they swear that,
although they were badly troubled before,
not one case has happened since. To me it
doesn’t seem feasible, but there you are.
Edwin Geacli: Regarding ’ the argu-
ment as. to whether seaweed is of value as
a fertiliser (B. 9/11/’32), I am digging
potatoes, weighing two to the pound, from
ground which consists of sand, liable to be
washed by the blue Pacific on days with an
easterly gale. This sand is only enriched by
seaweed, firstly in its natural state, and
secondly by the seaweed being burnt to a
cinder. The seaweed is of great value to
those living immediate to the seashore, but,
of course, cartage may not make it profit-
able. However, two to the pound takes a
lot of beating.


Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
I THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL& C ud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 41 Bridge Street, Sidney.
fsd
Now in its 91st Year
“The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
f
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling last Pree.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
[importing
NOTES-TIPS-RESULTS,.
*HE AUSTRALASIAN
OH SALE ALL STATES“S?
Our Service Department
This page is set apart -for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible
Wants.
Motor mechanic, Q’land, exp. all branches, small
capital, wants employment anywhere.—3l63.
Billiardroom-keeper, Sydney, 30 years’ exp., wants
employment anywhere. Refs. —3111. .
Young returned soldier, N.S.W., wants job as
caretaker of or handyman in country residence. Refs.
—3llB. ,
Englishman (24), N.S.W., well educated, wants
position of any sort, anywhere.—3lls.
Lady, N.S.W., exp. subsidised schoolteacher, Q.C.
standard, wants position after Christmas vacation.
Refs,—3l37.
Words of poem by William Knox containing the
line “Oh, why should the spirit of mortal be proud?”
—3185. • ■
Words of verse entitled “A Voice from the Bush,”
commencing “High morn, and not a cloud in the sky
to break the blinding sun.” —3176.
AVords of poem each stanza of which ends with
the line “And the glory of the Lord shall cover
the earth as the, waters cover the sea.” —3157.
AVords and music of song containing the line “I
stood on the top of a mountain watching the pale
moon shine.”—3l66.
To- buy or borrow stage dialogues entitled “Twenty
Minutes Under an Umbrella,” “Ring and Keeper,”
“The Nettle,” “On An Island,” “The Happy Pair”
and “Aunt Agatha’s Legacy”; also' one-act comedy,
“Hook and Eye,” by Eille Horwood. —3142.
To buy a prismatic compass.—3l4l.
To buy Favenc’s “History of Australian Explora-
tion,” —3121.
To buy “The Toast is Anzac, Gentlemen.”—3ll3.
To buy or exchange back numbers of “Art in
Australia.”—3o96.
To buy “The Science of Eating” and “Starving
America,” by Alfred McCann.—3o92.
To exchange list of aboriginal words and their
meanings for other similar lists.- —3105.
Words of “The Oozlum Bird,” by AV. T. Goodge.
—3144.
Name of author and of verses dealing with analogy
between sleep and ships, picturing old-world vessels
loading at night for mysterious ports.—3l69.
Whereabouts of David Utley, Sydney freelance
journalist.—3lBl.
Information Sought.
Could a person travelling to Rhodesia-
from■ Australia convert Australian money
to Mouth African at 25 p.c. exchange and
then obtain the benefit of the 30 p.c. ex-
change between the M. African Union . and
Rhodesia on his entry into Rhodesia? —
3069.
The exchange between Australia and
South Africa is not at the rate of £l2o
Australian to £lOO South African. The
Union of South Africa has remained on the
gold standard. Therefore, when £125 Aus-
tralian is equivalent to £lOO sterling, and
sterling has depreciated approximately 30
p.c. in relation to gold, £125 Australian
is equivalent to only 70 gold pounds. A
person travelling from Australia to Rhodesia
would then receive approximately £7O
(gold) for £125 Australian when buying
currency of the Union of South Africa; and
on converting this £7O (gold) to Rhode-
sian currency would receive £lOO sterling,
the same amount as if the monev bad been
exchanged directly from Australian to
Rhodesian currency.
(1) When is a ball considered out of
baulk in billiards? (2) If more than half
of- a ball projects beyond the baulk- line can
it be played by hitting the part inside the
line? (3) Is a ball playable when it lies
exactly over the baulk line, as much inside
baulk as outside? —3ool.
(1) When more than half tlie ball is on
the spot end of baulk line. (2) Yes, any
part of the ball is playable. (3) No, it
is termed a line ball.
How can I make an “automatic brush'’
to do a bit of signwriting for myself? —3224.
Take any sized flat-bristle brush or fitch,
according to the width of the line required,
and bind the head with thin tin or brass
so as to leave fin. of hair exposed. Fasten
the tin with a small rivet or two in the
handle. Se that the brush is unchiselled,
and it will then run lines uniform in width
regardless of the pressure employed. To
charge, stamp the brush in the color, as
with a stencil brush.
Hoiv to brighten a much-blackened old
silver-plated coffee-pot? —2991.
Wash well in hot suds and scrub with
a light brush to remove the worst of the
blackness. Then lay on a thick paste of
whiting mixed with ammonia, allow to dry,
and rub off with a coarse flannel. Repeat
the whiting paste until the pot is clean,
using woollen rags; finally polish with a
silk cloth.
(1) Upon what principle does the air-
speed indicator as used on aeroplanes , oper-
f ef , 4 <?>. Cun the .speed of an
bc determined relative to the gr ound?—3o46.
(1) There are several forms of air-speed
indica tor tile simplest of which is the Pitot
tribe. In this the air, entering through a
narrow mouthpiece attached to the leading
edge of one of the planes, passes through
pipes to a tube filled with a colored liquid.
The air pressure forces the liquid up or
down the tube as the machine’s speed
increases or decreases. more usual
type substitutes a dial, calibrated ill m.p.h.,
for the liquid-filled tube, but the operating
principle remains the same. (2) Yes, by
~ , 1 ~ ~ , „ _ A , . t. ■
to r rf
h b Q
Born 1803. In 1827 he settled in Brus-
sels. but f our years j. atPr he returned to
London, and by showing his first picture
at the Royal Academy ' (1833) began an
unprecedentedly prolonged career as an
exhibitor. Cooper’s name is mainly associ-
sited with pictures of cattle or sheep, of
which lie produced hundreds. He died in
1902.
Whereabouts is The Granites, distance
and route from nearest railhead, and best
means of travel? —29so.
About 350 miles north-west of Alice
Springs. The route follows the main north-
south road to Ryans Well and then
traverses occupied pastoral country for 75
miles, when the last stage of 200 miles of
waterless country is entered upon. Cars do
the journey in three to four days.
Train fares from Broken Hill to Port
Augusta and from Port Augusta to Perth?
—3112.
Broken Hill to Port Augusta, first-class
single, £2 11s. 4d. , second-class single. £1
19s. 3d.; Port Augusta to Perth, first-class
single, £ll 75.; second-class single, £7 12s.
j d £ } in £ fai , es for travel between
p Augusta and Perth is £3 325. first-
class ant f £2 Bs. 6d. second-class for sleep-
j n g berth accommodation and meals supplied,
(j) flow can I model some small figures
suitable for book-ends? (2) Is metal cast-
ing practicable for the amateur? (3) If not,
how could I weight them? —3l3o.
Prepare an armature a little below the
height required for the finished object. Make
this of lead wire beiit into approximately
the pose required, and securely fasten to a
wooden base. On this build the figure in
either clay or plasticine, and when corn-
pleted cast a mould and positive in plaster.
(2) No, best to send to foundries in Mel-
bourne. (3) Slugs of lead may be placed
j n the. bottom when casting in plaster, or
if the design is simple and compact it may
be cast in cement, which wall be heavy
enough for the purpose.
Who was Captain Thunderbolt? —3lo9.
Frederick Ward, alias Captain Thunder-
bojtj was born a t Windsor (N.S.W.). He
escaped from prison at Cockatoo Island,
and be g an a bashranging career in the New
England , district in December. 1864. On
May 25, 1870, he was shot by the police,
jje is reckoned the last of the N.S.W. bush-
rangers.
/ have made some artificial flowers from
C repc paper which I want to wax. Sort of
wax to use , and how to apply? —2937.
The flowers should be made of double
paper to stand immersion in the wax. Par-
chase paraffin wax in 11b. blocks- from any
grocer and melt enough to do the required
quantity of flowers; to every 41b. wax add
j oz> spermaceti. While the wax is melting
arrange the wired flowers exactly as they
are bo be when finished. Stir the wax, and
d jp the flower, When very little wax will
a dhere; stir and dip again, smooth out the
petals and arrange again; stir and dip a
third time quickly but gently. Shake off
any excess of wax, and reverse the flower
to prevent. drops forming at the ends of
petals. A fourth dipping may be neces-
sary, but it should not be overdone, or the
dainty result is lost. Test with a piece of
paper before starting, and keep the wax
fluid by heating again. Colored wax is
occasionally procurable in city novelty
shops for this purpose,
Recipe for a poisonous paint to kill
silver fish which cat the paint off wall-
paper?—29l3.
Mix together loz. kerosene, 3oz. carbon
tetrachloride and 3 dessertspoon oil of cit-
ronella. Strain if it looks dirty, and keep
in a stoppered bottle. Paint it on the pic-
ture-rail and allow it to scop behind the
]* a jl. Try a little with a brush on the frieze
j n an unnotlgeable corner, and if it does not
affect the pigments, paint the whole frieze
with it. Clear the insects out of woodwork.
bookshelves and cupboards with hot turpen-
tine, well slopped into crevices.
(1) Is the Golden Gleam nasturtium,
a perennial? (2) Is it- advisable to water
nasturtiums to get better flowers? (3) Can
nasturtiums be 'grown from cuttings? —3ol9.
(1) All nasturtiums are perennials, but
it is preferable, to put in fresh plants at
least every second year. (2) Do not water
nasturtiums heavily; it produces too much
leaf-growth and fewer flowers. Rotted
manure mixed with the soil will help to
get bettor blooms. (3) Yes, cuttings will
root readily if placed in a warm frame m
soil containing at least 25 p.c. of sand.
(1) Is it harmful to health to add bak-
ing-soda to green vegetables cooked, in alu-
minium ware? (2) Recipe for a mixture
to keep flies and mosquitoes off children?
—2938. ' A
(1) The use of soda in cooking
in aluminium or other pots is almost ay
universal practice. Aluminium can be dis- ,
solved in alkaline solutions. It is not a'
poisonous metal, but there is evidence
to show that certain individuals are sensi-
tive to aluminium, which is liable, in such
cases, to cause gastric irritation. (2) To
some extent pungent essential oils, such as
citronella, will repel mosquitoes and other
insects. Flies are much less affected by
such means, and protection is best obtained
by nets.
(1) What is the rise in the boiling point
of a liquid for every pound per sq. in. of
pressure on it? (2) Is ordinary distillation
or “ cracking ’’ by distillation under pressure
the principle of extracting motor spirit
from crude petroleum? —2Sl7.
(1) Varies according to the composition
of the liquid. Water at atmospheric pressure
with the barometer at 30deg. boils at
212 deg. F.; at 601 b. per sq. in., at 307 deg.;
801 b., 324 deg.: lOOlb., 338 deg.; 1501 b.,
36Gdeg.; 2001 b., 3SBdeg.; and at 2501 b.,
405 deg. (2) Distillation is carried out by
both straight distillation from the 'crude and
by cracking certain constituents of the
crude. Most petrols are a blend of both
straight-distilled and cracked gasolenes.
How to calculate the pressure exerted by
liquids of different specific gravities on the
bottom of a cylindrical container of given
height?— 297l.
The pressure exerted by a vertical column
of water, whose specific gravity is 1, is
14.71 b. per sq. in. for each 34 feet of
height, or 0.4321 b. per sq. in. for each foot
of height. To find the pressure exerted by
any other liquid, multiply 0.432 by the
height in feet, and the product by the
specific gravity of the liquid.
What are the habits of bristle-birds and
grass-wrens? To what family are they
related, and in what parts of Australia do
they occur? —2411.
These are dull-colored perching-birds with
long tails that are usually carried erect.
They are generally regarded as mem-
bers of the family of warblers. Probably
they are near relatives of the Australian
wrens, perhaps also of the field-, ground- and
scrub-wrens, but they are a good deal larger
than any of these forms. Both bristle-birds
and grass-wrens are shy birds, frequenting
dense thickets, keeping under cover and
darting rapidly across ’the open spaces
between bushes with their tails over their
backs. Their nests are dome-shaped, com-
posed of grass, with the entrance at the side.
Two or three eggs are laid, white with brown
or reddish spots. The bristle-birds derive
their name from three pairs of stout bristles
that spring from the base of the beak and
curve backwards. The eastern bristle-bird
is found —in coastal areas only—in N.S.W.
and eastern Vic., and the western bristle-
bird in the southern districts of W.A. The
rufous bristle-bird occurs on the coastal
ranges from Cape Otway in Vic. to Mount
Lofty in S.A., and also near Cape Geographe
(W.A.). The ten species of grass-wrens are
all confined to the interior, or to the arid
regions of the north-west coast.
(1) What are the advantages of over-
head valves on motor-cycles? (2) What
effect have they on the power-to-speed rela-
tionship? (3) Is it true that side-valve
motor-cycles “idle” better on top than over-
head-valve motor-cycles? —3lo6.
(1) Better cooling, due to the shape of
the combustion chamber; higher compres-
sion ratio possible without fear of pre-
ignition occurring; and the turbulence is
better in an overhead-valve cylinder than
in a side-valve cylinder. (2) In the over-
head-valve cylinder, maximum power is
developed at a higher speed than in the
side-valve cylinder. (3) Overhead valves
are more often used' for racing purposes,
wherein the valve gear is designed to give
very rapid opening and closing and the
timing such that the inlet valve opens early
and closes latq. When such an engine is
running slowly the overlap of the inlet
valve and exhaust valve will result in low
efficiency and a general lack of economy in
fuel.
Description and uses of the Alexander
laurel? —3l33.
It is a handsome forest tree, indigenous
to Northern Australia, which thrives best
in coastal situations. It is grown for shade
and for its fragrant flowers, but especially
for the fruit: from this an oil is extracted,
which in India and Fiji is used both as an
illuminant and to cure rheumatism; when
freed from resin it makes an excellent soap.
It also mixes well with pigments. The tree
yields a useful timber.
Brief Answers.
T.O’C.: Creosote will rid the boards of
white ants. Apply with brush or spray... .A.J.H.:
The first race for the Schneider Cup was in 1913;
it was won with a speed of 44.7 m.p.li
A.C.: “Poultry Fanning in N. S. Wales,” by Janies
Ha’dlington, obtainable from Govt. Printer, Sydney
(4s. 4d. posted)... .A.H.F.H.: (1) Australian Book
Publishing Co., 252 George-street, Sydney. (2)
“B. P. Magazine,” Bridge-street, Sydney... .J.W.M.:
Write Arthur Yates and Co., IS4 Sussex-street,
Sydney... .F.G.: “Non-Britishers in Australia,” by
Lyng, published by Melbourne Uni. Press, 7s. Od.
... . ILL.: N.S.W. Dept, of Navigation may be able
to help y0u....E.F.: Jarvis is a small, uninhabited
island, lying by itself just south of the Equator,
in long. ICO. There are deposits of guano....
D.8.F.: Two or three men have returned recently
after study abroad. Can’t recommend any par-
ticular doctor... .8.C.: There is a difference in
medical opinion, both sides receiving wide support.
The middle course seems to be that medical treat-
ment is advisable first. If that does not succeed,
operative treatment is advocated. The percentage of
cures is difficult to estimate. Figures sent in by
physicians and surgeons vary... .E.H.: It is not in
any book. Something of the sort is said to have
appeared in ; a medical journal some time ago.
Cannot tell you who the experimenters were....
L.M.A.: Prohibition was defeated in N.S.W. by a
3 to 1 vote. Referendum, Sept. 3, 1928. . . .N.M.J.:
The area of Sydney Harbor is 22J miles; the depth
at the deepest point is 154 ft J.R.C.: The island
of Patmos is one of the Sporades in the TEgean Sea,
about 20 miles south of Samos... .P.C.8.: Capt.
Matthew Webb, in 1875, was the first man to swim
the English Channel; Gertrude Ederle, in 1926, was
the first woman. .. .E.W.K.: Ivennaquhair did not
win the Melbourne Cup; he ran second to Night
Watch in 1918. He carried 9st J.P.Q,: The
Rhodes scholarships were founded in 1902. The
value of each scholarship is £3OO a year and they
are tenable at Oxford for three years. ... A.E.L.:
A. M. Bickford and Sons, Ltd., Adelaide, should be
able to supply the substance; if not, it is obtainable
from Elliotts and Australian Drug Co., 20 O’Connell-
street, Sydney... .Aero: The Gipsy engine hand-
book and Moth handbook must be imported from
H.M. Stationery Office, Adastra.l House, ICingsway,
London, either direct or through a local bookseller,
2s. 6d. each or 2s. 9d. post free. Air Ministry
Handbooks on Genet or Cirrus engines are not issued.
Write to Gilbert Lodge and Co. about a Cirrus
book. .. . A.J.8.: Cannot furnish comparisons as
regards the quality of manufactured goods... .M.L.L,:
“The Duck Book of Australasia,” by 11. R. Harris,
published by Philp and Son, 298 George-street,
Sydney... .Bondi: You are not liable to Family
Endowment contribution on the amount paid to your
50n.... J.M.F.: There are no record of sulphur
proving efficient in preventing damage to seed wheat
by mice. A leaflet dealing with mice control is
obtainable from the Agriculture Dept., Sydney....
C.S.: The striker only is out. .. . J. 8.; Dogs with
worms irritating the rectum and with teething troubles
will behave as your dog is doing. It often happens
however, that dogs will circle for no discoverable
reason. Unless the animal appears ill or shows
symptoms of fits, there is no cause for anxiety and
no treatment should be attempted.... C. Y.: Depends
upon the color of the card ; yellow-brown, olive-green
and brown-rose about 10s. each; bright rose and
bright green, about 755.; violet, about £5....
Y.Y.: Rone Descartes (1596-1650) was a famous
French philosopher and mathematician, originator of
the method of calculating by “Cartesian co-
ordinates.” “I think, therefore T exist,” is the
basis of his philosophy... .8.P.5.: The Amazon is
the world’s longest river with a total of 4000 miles.
The Ganges (1500 miles) is 27th on the list. .. .
P.M.Q.: The population of New York City is reckoned
6,930,446 ; the total for N.Y. State, 12,588,066.
The last census was on April 1, 1930... .S.S.IL;
The record for a world flight was established by the
Graf Zeppelin in 1929. The distance was calculated
as 19,300 miles and the time as 21 days, 7 hours,
34min F.V.: Yes, Archer and Mormon fought
out the first two Melbourne Cups. Archer won on
each occasion with lengths to spare. ...T.C.Y.: J. B.
Hobbs’s first appearance in County cricket was. for
Cambridgeshire in 1903. He joined the Surrey team
in 1905,... .G.S.P.: Write Gramophone Co., Railway-
parade, Erskineville, and Columbia Gramophone- Co.,
Parramatta-road, Homebush —both Sydney... .H.P.C.:
You will have to write to the Clerk to the Special
Commissioners of Income Tax, Board of Inland
Revenue, Somerset House, London, W.C.2. .. .E.A.T.:
The payment of lump sums in lieu of fortnightly
payments of war pensions has been discontinued....
A.M.8.: Write Wallis Bros., Pyrmont, Sydney....
F.M.: The Diggoel Communist camp in Dutch New'
Guinea is four days steaming up the Diggoel, one
of the largest rivers in the country. Here four or
five thousand malcontents from Java, Sumatra and
Celebes have been interned T.F.: Write Marjorie
Quinn, Secretary, Fellowship of Australian Writers,
76 Addison-road, Man1y...5.8.; In the Q’land Legisla-
tive Assembly there are 33'Liabon members, 28 Country
and Progressive Nationalist members and one Inde-
pendent J.0.J.: Can’t answer in absence of full
particulars. Suggest you approach local council....
0.G.: Can’t determine value without inspection or
complete description... .W.W.: The author, A. T.
Saunders, states that it is impossible to say how
and w'hen “Bully” Hayes died, Various accounts
of his death have been published and some versions
are given in Mr. Saunders’s b00k.... J.W.: Let us
have a rubbing of the medal and we will endeavor to
identify it for you.. ..J.D.: The subject cannot be
learned by correspondence... .H.P.W.: There is only
one tree native to Australia whose bark possesses
similar properties to that of Quassia (Pieroena
encelsa), but it is not possible to make use of it
commercially... .F.M.: Sun Beau, an American race-
horse, is the world’s greatest stake winner, with
£78,488 6s. Bd. He started 74 times for 33 wins.
Phar Lap, who won £66,738, had a better winning
average, registering 37 victories out of 51 starts.
.... (Many others mailed.)


Hestle’ s
"HI WS.IC.HT ll*_^
The sportsman’s drink ...
Invigorating!
There’s new energy in this delicious drink ... full of the
rich nutriment of pure malt and full-cream milk.
A daily glass of Nestle’s Malted Milk ensures perfect
physical fitness ... always.
NESTLES MALTED MILK
808 COPYRIGHT
r
Easy rolled—no better sold
Insist upon
Australian Made
LENIL
CKARETTE MBS
Super Quality
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
G. S. Luscombe turned over a useful
string to F. T. Cush when he gave up being
an amateur trainer. Lady Joy (Grand Joy
—Delhiana) was a smart two-year-old, and
has not lost her speed, as she proved in the
Flying Handicap at Canterbury. She was
favorite at twos, and Knox, the jockey, had
no trouble in repelling the challenge of
Orpah (7 to 1), who has run two seconds
and two firsts in four starts; Promptitude
(8 to 1) was third. The starters included
horses that were just out for a gallop with
the colors up; and McShortodds was not.
slow at expressing his disgust. He repeated
his expressions after subsequent races in
which the same thing occurred.
The cricket had drawn away many of the
regulars, . and betting was lifeless. To
attract custom on the Canterbury Handicap,
McShortodds had to offer 7 to 2 the field of
eight, with the certainty that only three or
four horses would be backed. These are
the things that try men’s souls. Philippic
(7 to 2) is only third-rate, but, conceding
weight to all except Inducement, for whom
there was no support —except for a few
specked half-notes on the tote — : he accounted
for his opponents comfortably. Lovely Bal-
loon, a recruit from pony courses, and
Salorio, from Newcastle, filled the places.
Parsons rode Philippic nicely.
Loch Garry (6 to 4) compensated the
Newcastle people for the failure of Salorio
and Winrose (third to Opinion in the Park
Stakes) by leading practically throughout
in a division of the Highweight Handicap.
Fordlight (4 to 1) tried to do the same thing
in the second division, but, as at Moore-
field, he stopped to nothing, after 3 to 1
had been laid on him. He is touched in
Bert I "The- fielding >s very keeh.
§ert:" Which is vJa.rdihve.2 '
Bert’. "Thatts him in the short-
sups''
Qert*. "But thev ao-l. have long,
TCOUSERS ON I - '
the wind, and should now be relegated to
Rosebery and Kensington. Red Shadow (3
to 1), a brother to Magnetic, raced in the
••Constable” colors, just cut Polydorus (5
to 1) out of it. Eulclare (6 to 4) failed
ingloriously in the third division, which
went to Labor Girl (7 to 1), with Auda
(6 to 1) and King Pin (15 to 1) in places.
On looks Eulclare is a cut above the rest,
but Booth has had no luck with the daughter
of Treclare-Eulacre, though she must have
shown him something good.
The ringmen had to go to 5 to 1 to do
business on the Ashbury Handicap. Laving-
ton wound up at that price, and finished
first, but in making his run he interfered
with Servius (10 to 1), and the race was
awarded to The Bulletin’s choice on pro-
test. Lavington was going a trifle the faster
at the finish (the margin in his favor was
half a neck), but Servius was clearly entitled
to the verdict. He was ridden by Douglas.
Lavington’s jockey, Darby Munro, had been
successful on Opinion, Loch Garry and Red
Shadow.
* ‘ * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday:—-
Granville Stakes: Lindcan; next, Moun-
tain View.
Maiden Welter: Nellabar; next, Captiva-
tion.
Flying Handicap: Gloriole; next, Gay
Ballerina.
Club Handicap : Phlare; next, Pavilion.
Parramatta Mile : Tilt; next, Tantrum.
* * * *
James Scobie has led in his tenth Ben-
digo Cup winner, Roc taking the event in
the colors of E. E. D. Clarke, his breeder.
Bob Lewis had the mount on the son of
Thrice. He will not retire from the saddle
as long as Ernest Clarke continues in the
game. Lewis has just celebrated his 54th
birthday and has been a jockey for 40 years.
* * * $
There were eight events at Epsom on
Saturday. The Trial Stakes had to be con-
tested in three divisions ; the first went to Black
Alec, a warm favorite, owned and trained by
“Horrie” Leek. Black Alec is a four-year-
old gelding by the Son-in-Law stallion, Beau
Fils, and has just begun to fulfil the promise
displayed as a juvenile. Thonian, a grey
by Chrysolaus, created surprise by leading
from end to end in the second division. He
scraped home by half a neck from Gossiper,
subsequently sold to Mrs. Kay Wilson, who
recently acquired Rulanut.
During the three months’ suspension of
Duncan, Frank Dempsey is doing the main
riding for Jack Holt’s stable. He weighed
out for Village Green in the third division
of the Trial Stakes. Village Green was
solidly supported for the last Oakleigh
Plate, but did not come up to expectations.
Though he does not stick too well, Holt
thought he would be equal to winning in a
Trial Stakes field. However, Kitty O’Shea
decisively defeated the favorite, after losing a
lot of ground by hanging out at the straight
entrance. Bred by D. U. Seaton in N. S.
Wales, Kitty O’Shea is by Wolaroi from
Lydia, by Sands of the Orient.
The Melbourne barrister who races as “G.
Ornong” owns Bon Cretian, who was served
up a hot favorite for the Epsom Plate and
had to strike her colors to Ashley Reed’s
mount, Harry Gavin. She, too, hung out —
she usually does. Harry Gavin made full
use of the opening on the rails. By Euryth-
mic, he is the gelding who created a Moonee
Valley sensation in the autumn of 1930 by
starting at 100 to 1 and beating Spanish
Galleon and Figure in the Quality Handi-
cap, heads separating the placed horses.
Gold Glare, Dempsey’s mount in the
Epsom Purse, shared favoritism with Metal-
lurgy. Nearly last at the home turn. Gold
Clare finished at a terrific bat to run fifth.
Alfange, a Spearhead gelding, scored gamely
from Metallurgy, with Lord Somerset third.
Prince of Samos had no difficulty in captur-
ing the Brush Steeplechase, being in com-
mand throughout the last half of the journey.
Calmond staged a surprise by leading home
the Welter Mile field. He is a brother to
Mollison. Backed from 3 to 1 to 7 to 4,
the greatly-improved Cupidity romped home
in the middle-distance Epsom Handicap.
* * .* *
The A.J.C. has found it necessary to enter
0 n another prize-money cutting campaign, the
leading summer handicaps and those to be
run a t the autumn meeting being concerned.
This year’s Challenge Stakes will drop from
£7OO to £6OO and the Anniversary from
£lO<X) to £BOO. The Doncaster will be worth
£l5OO added money, or £5OO less than the.
1932 event. The Sydney Cup, however,
stays on the £4OOO mark with a £2OO tfophy.
At Warwick Farm the Liverpool Handicap
and the Farm Autumn Cup will have £350
and £5OO respectively added money against
£4OO and £5OO last season. In the meantime
the club seems to be taking no steps to in-
crease income—by the institution of a
doubles tote, for instance.
.. . _ . 1 D \ D 1
(and Kairerty./ Kules
Because Royce McGrath had stopped
Wally Hancock and Alby Roberts had beaten
McGrath, Roberts (lOst. 71b.) was expected
to defeat Hancock (lOst. 71b.) at Leichhardt.
last Friday. He found Hancock’s left hook
too fast for him until the seventh round;
ithen his own left, landing on the chin,
dropped the sailorman for “nine.” Hancock
continued to outbox the black until late in
the 11th, when an abo. left landed low. As
Hancock appealed for a foul another left
upset him ‘for “five.” Roberts fought reck-
lessly when Wally staggered up, and lost
?n a foul. He hit the groggy white after
being ordered to break.
* * * *
“Bull”. Montana, once a bad man in the
movies, is now somewhat stricken in years,
He tried a lot of bad-man stuff on Lurich
at Leichhardt, but Lurich’s body-scissors,
applied for quite half of the third round,
almost squeezed the life out of the Italian,
and “Bull” was not simulating distress dur-
ing the spell. He was still gasping for
breath when the fourth opened, and Lurich
lost no time gaining a fall with another
body-scissors. This one fall finished the
match, as Montana was still “out” when the
call came for the next round.
Ins and Outs
.1 n . ~ , .
After three days of the match between
England and N.S.W at Sydney C.G. the visi-
tois were well in the lead. That is not to
say that they played super-cricket, but their
bowlers, headed by Tate, were good enough
to dismiss the opposition cheaply while
their batsmen dug m At stumps on Satur-
day N.S.W were °ut for 273 and England had
lost Wyntt Hammond, Pataudi and Brown
for 339. The home side opened on a perfect
wicket, and Bill and Fingleton made a pro
mising start, the former (22) going to Tate,
when 48 were up Tate also got Bradman
l.b.w. for 18, and Kippax went for 3, caught
m the slips off Tate. McCabe then joined
Fiiigleton, and an attractive partnership,
ended when McCabe went for a sparkling
67, Tate again being responsible. After
that there was a flop, Allen cleaning up the
five tail-enders for 69, while Tate’s average
was 4 for 43. Fingleton was not out with
119 to his credit, and played all the bowling
with confidence, though Voce knocked him
about a bit with his fast stuff on the leg.
. . . .
tti m 1 t , j 1
or n 8 a B° od f aod was “ ad ?
Wyatt and Sutcliffe. Wyatt was dismissed
l.b.w. by O’Reilly for a stolid 72, the part-
nership yielding 140. Hammond, who suc-
ceeded, was dreary; he went to a leg trap
off O’Reilly for 20. Pataudi played a streaky
shot for 61, the score including some charm-
ing strokes, until Love—as substitute for
Oldfield—caught him off Ilird, a feat he
repeated in the case of Brown a few minutes
later. Sutcliffe was n.o. 157, a very slow and
unattractive knock; and he was no brisker
on Monday in getting to 182. Mention must
be made of the sportsmanlike action of the
English skipper in permitting Love to keep
for Oldfield, who was indisposed. The visi-
tors’ innings closed for 530, Ames having
contributed a meritorious 90 and Voce 46.
Hird (6 for 135) and O’Reilly (4 for 86)
shared the wickets. With Bradman in bed
with a chill, N.S.W.’s prospects were poor.
Bill went early in the second innings, but
McCabe and Fingleton looked like making
a stand.
i'fi H« $
“Fitzcray” : The Australian match against
England in Melbourne drew a gratifying
crowd —109,501 and the gate was £6285.
This has only been topped in Tests. The
best attendance in matches between England
and N.S.W. was over 85,000 in 1924, and
receipts were £7947. On that occasion admis-
sion prices were 2s. to the hill and 3s. 6d. to
the stands. Charges to-day are Is. 6d. and
2s. lOd. plus tax, and smaller profits are the
rule.
* * * *
In Adelaide a Victorian team ininus Pons-
ford, Woodfull, L. Nagel and Ironmonger
did well to run up 454 against Grimmett
and Wall. Bigg (166) and Darling (150)
got most of the runs, though O’Brien (42)
and King (41) also did their bit. Grim-
mett ended with 5 for 161, but Wall, with
1 for 99, was not impressive; Jamieson
(2-56) came out with the best figures, his
victims including Darling and Oakley, both
c. and b. Nitschke and Richardson opened
in their usual lively fashion for the home
team, the left-hander being run out for 42.
Richardson went on merrily, and at stumps
was 115 n.o. He increased his score to 203,
out of a total of 403, before he was run
out on Monday. That should surely get him
a game in Sydney on Friday.
* * * *
“Kangaroo Flat”: Lisle Nagel, the long
Victorian bowler who recently made the
Englishmen sit up and take notice, like
many another good cricketer hails from
Bendigo. Some of the others were H. F.
Boyle, the first Australian to bowl W. G.
Grace; J. D. Edwards, of the 1888 side iii
England, and J. Harry, who was selected foi
the 1896 eleven, but was edged opt by tne
influences which used to control team selec-
tion‘before the Board of Control stepped in.
It was his retirement which made room toi
J. J. Kelly, later Australian wicketkeeper.
Harry was a versatile player, batsman,
bowler and wicketkeeper, and far above the
average in all three departments.
* :|s ❖ S* s
“Bumpk”: Followers of cricket are as
exacting as theatregoers and as fickle m
their affections. When Sutcliffe and Ear-
wood batted stodgily on the first day ol
the match in Melbourne howls went up about
the modern mercenary style of batting, and
oldtimers compared the caution of the Eng-
lishmen with the dashing recklessness of
former champions. When Bradman made
a sporting 36, hitting all round the _ wicket
and delighting the crowd with his vivacity,
lie was solemnly admonished by “Old Boy,’
of the “Argus,” for his theatricality, and a
correspondent of that paper delivered him-
self in this fashion : “I was shockingly dis-
appointed ; I quite agree with ‘Old Boy’s
remarks on his [Bradman’s], buffoonery.
He was such a modest man before, but now
he appears to be playing for the applause
of a few.” It is difficult to please every-
body.
❖ H«
“Math”: It was in the closing stages of
the N.S.W. v. Vic. match at Sydney. A
Southerner was extolling the wonderful
length bowling of Ironmonger and Blaekie
when a wag interjected: “But how’ll Vic-
toria get on for bowlers when they draw
the pension ?” It was a shaft of truth
which is passed along for the benefit of the
selectors. *
(Continued on page 80.)
Melbourne’s Ilenley-on-Yarra carnival on
Saturday had one unrehearsed incident. A
small boy fell off a bridge while H. J.
Turner, Australian sculling champion, -was
paddling up for the final of the Challenge
Sculls. Turner went overboard and fished
the kid out, subsequently going on to win
the event in his wet togs. He beat another
N.S.W. sculler, Goulding, holder of the
trophy, by half a length in smin. 27sec., a
second better than Bobby Pearce’s time in
the same event in 1927,
“The Gaffer”: For a long time the writer
has been preaching the futility of expecting
track athletes who have learned to run in
Australia on grass tracks to compete on
equal terms overseas with runners on cinder
tracks. Before leaving Sydney, Count
Baillet-Latour, president of the International
Olympic Committee, wlio has been some
weeks in Australia, referred to the foolish-
ness of the practice; but the probabilities
are that our amateur athletic authorities
will persist with the grass tracks. In the
Count’s opinion, Australia is not likely to
see an Olympiad until 1948. Berlin, Japan
and Italy are booked ahead of this country.
Still, a lot may happen in 16 years.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: One result of the tour
of Australia by the English dirt-track motor-
cycle team is the leasing by Wembley
Stadium, Ltd., which is running the venture
in Australia, of the Davies Park Speedway
in South Brisbane. The lease will be for
three nights in February, and the fifth of
a series of tests between England and Aus-
tralia. for the world’s championship will be
run off there. A match between Queens-
land and England is also part of the pro-
gramme.
“Tiercel”: According to the cables, the
very ancient and world-wide sport of hawk-
ing, which still survives in some parts of
England, is showing a marked revival.
There have been one or two attempts to
establish hawking in Australia, and no sport
is more fitted to the plain country of Out-
back. We have the true falcons here, as
well as sparrowhawks and goshawks. The
drawback is that training the young hawks
is a full-time job, and one requiring infinite
care and patience.


THE AGE OLD SYMBOL
[f
!)
OF CELEBRATION
m
m
%
r
f
'A
How a pair of
white horses
dispelled
an army’s gloom
The Greeks were despondent. For years
now they had besieged Troy without suc-
cess. Gloom had settled upon the whole
camp when a diversion brought the de-
jected troops running from their tents.
Into the camp had galloped two of their
generals on the famous white horses of
King Rhesus, which they had boldly stolen
by night from behind the enemy’s ranks.
An omen it seemed. Excitement ran high.
With a new, unconquerable spirit the
Greeks assaulted the walls of Troy afresh.
o • O • •
To-day , a White Horse still brings entour -
agement and inspiration to an army of men.
Tired? . . . enjoy the beneficial refresh-
ment of this mellow old Scotch spirit. Dis-
couraged? . . . feel the welcome optimism
it imparts. Take home a bottle or flask
to-night. You’ll find that the ceremony of
a nightly nobbier of White Horse helps you
to put the cares of the day behind and sets
the seal on your evening’s content.
white Horse
" SCOTCH WHISKY
Guaranteed Pure Scotch and
bottled only in Bond under
Government Supervision. To
the handy concave flasks and
the standard bottle is now
added the popular
miniature.
L


Win. Fowles, of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only Victoria’s greatest refined hotel values
thus : Single Rooms
from 4/6 day ; Double
from 7/6 ; and meals
optional; also at re-
duced rates in Tea-
rooms or Cafe; Room
with Breakfast from
6/6 Single or 11/6
Double —all less 10
p.c. if staying one
week or more; and
complete Board from
10/6 day or 65/- week
(both net) ; but, in
addition, if you
motor, Win. Fowles
sdf
garages your car free of charge in the hotel
garage, next door, during your entire stay.
Such value service and convenience is not
obtainable at any other hotel in the Mel-
bourne city. Please write for tariff card,
which gives all information, or state your
requirements and we will gladly quote.
Special rates for clubs, conferences, families,
etc. The Manager, Carlyon’s Hotel, Mel-
bourne, is sufficient address for your letter.
GIVE CUTLERY FOR XMAS
No. J IMPERIAL, MODEL ROLLS
SAFETY RAZOR. Silver-plated. This
Rolls Safety Razor lias one hollow-
ground Made, a honing device’ on one
side and stropping on the other. Thus
it enables you to keep the blade always
keen and ready for use <>o/-
No. 2. Nickel-plated, in cardboard box,
50/-
pr-
Tw o W. Jn o.
Baker Hollow
Ground Razors in
soft leather case,
19/6
complete.
Illustrated
Catalogue
POST FREE.
■
POST FREE FOR CASH WITH ORDER.
W. JNO. BAKER, LTD., 3 Hunter Street, Sydney
GOOD AUSTRALIANS FROM TOP TO TOE
Men’s socks made from Patons
and Baldwins’ famous wool
(medium weight).
Direct from the manufacturer,
DAVID S. MOIR,
83 Penshurst Street, Penshurst, N.S.W.
Made in Black, Cream and six smart mixtures,
with reinforced Heels and Toes, and card of
Mending. Prices—
-1 Pair. 3 Pairs. 6 Pairs.
3/- 8/6 167-
Postage paid within the Commonwealth.
Please state size of Boot, and add exchange
to country and Interstate cheques.
for
CO
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
•Swan’ Pens Black and Coloured, from 20/*.
•Swan* Minors from 15/«, ‘Blackbird* Pent
from 10/-, ‘Swan* Ink from 6d. per bottlt*
Illustrated Catalogue post free,
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.l.
Factories : London & Liverpool.
MADE IN
ENGLAND
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot i
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Remember to use SWAN INK
Wilkinson Safety Razor
MADE IN ENGLAND.
sdf
HOU.OW
groun
BUAOe»
EMPIRE MODELS.
>CL.
E.7—Self-stropping Razor, complete with two
Hollow-ground Blades and Strop, in
Oak Case 14/6
E. 10—Same as E. 7, with six Hollow-ground
Blades 18/6
E. 21 —Highly-finished, Silverplated, Self-
stropping Razor, with six Hollow-ground
Blades and Shell Horsehide Strop, in
Solid Nickelplated Case, Oak-lined, 35/-
Obtainable at all Stores.
" Wholesale Distributors:
E. H. COEEIS PTY., LTD.,
413 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne;
And 103 York Street, Sydney.
Inc anrl Ontc
Ins ana V/uts
W itli only I—o runs to got, the Austrcilinn
combined team went in confidently in the
final innings of the match against England
in Melbourne. Woodfull was caught by
Duckworth oft Larwood for a duck. Brad-
man was skittled by the same bowler when
Sf 13 Then ram washed out the
a 0r 3 ";,. ...
“Hotham”: The somewhat loquacious P.
F. Warner staggered his hearers when in a
Sr e giS Cl t^nSS e< lucket XCe The
SSSf .^m^^iiliSy
liis publication “Cricket” gives him plenty
of opportunity to air his views on the game,
but that has not restrained him front utilising
other agencies.
sj« ’ * * *
“Gate”: In spite of representations by
press and public, the trustees of the Sydney
Cricket Ground decided at the last moment
not to reserve seats for the Tests and other
big matches, thus reversing a decision come
to,some time ago. It is stated that under
existing conditions, seats could not be set
aside without inconveniencing patrons. Under
exactly the same conditions the reservation
of seats in Brisbane for the first Test played
there by Chapman’s team was a complete
success, and there is no convincing reason
whv the same thing should not be possible
in Sydney.
*"* * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Maoriland is perturbed
because the 'Nawab of Pataudi will not be
able to cross the Tasman with his mates
of the English XI, and all sorts of weird
reasons are being advanced for his resolve,
one of them being that he dreads a repeti-
(ion of a disparaging remark said to have
been applied to Duleepsinhji at Christchurch.
The cold truth is that he has to go back
to India to cast an eye over his job before
IN A CLASS OF HIS OWN.
JACKY: “Want to buy a racehorse, boss?”
BOSS: “Who’s ’e by?”
JACKY: “By? By himself outside!”
returning to England. Even Test cricket
is less important than the administration of
a kingdom.
$ * * *
“Toombul”: Queensland cricketers are
busy practising three days a week in pre-
paration for their trip south —they begin
against Victoria on December 16. Archie
Jackson will be included in the team, and
with Oxenham showing a return to form
the Northerners should be a' much better
combination than was fielded recently. Still
it does not look probable .that they will
have a very successful tour. On figures
their only chance of securing a win will be
iigainst N.S.W. The match is to be played
;it the same time as the second Test, and the
Ma State will be without the services of
Bradman, Oldfield, Ivippax, O’Reilly,
McCabe and Fingleton.
Racquet and Bawl
“Kooyong”: The Victorian tennis cham-
pionships which begin this week-end have
drawn a strong entry, most of the leading
Australian players, including E. F. Moon
from Queensland, proposing to appear. The
Americans, of course, will be the great
attraction, but there has been keen dis-
appointment at the news that Allison does
not intend to appear in the singles, though
he will probably figure in the doubles with
Van Ryn. No reason for the American’s
abstention has been given, but it is rather
rough on the Victorian Association, which
counted on him as a singles attraction
sourcely inferior to Amines,
* * * *
“Toowong”: Queensland tennis players
] u(ve recen tiy given evidence of a sense of
gl . atitude w hicli is all too scarce nowadays,
rpj gtate Tennis Association owes much to
activities and the generous help of the
] a t e R. D. A. Frew, who was for many years
pi'f’Sßhh't of that- body* SiomcVtim.e a
into the Association -rounds °at Milton
memoria dc£preshl e Jt These
visit o°f the American players, who attended
the function. _
- ;* , „ ■■■ . T . . ,
. Glenelg : /he South A us. tennis heads
issued a ranking list putting Adrian Quist
at the to j > and Don Turnbull second. The
next day Don inflicted a sound walloping on
his leader in an inter-district match. Die
other ranked players are Gar Hone, L. A.
Schwarz, R. L. Shepherd and J. L. Black.
j he Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger”: More than one tear
coursed down manly cheeks—late in the
evening certainly—when the 35-year-old
Hunter’s Hill gulf club threw in its marble
and celebrated its absorption by the I’ymble
Huh with a lordly dinner at a local hotel,
The club was one of the oldest in N.S.W.
and had a cafeteria bar. There was no
barman, no cash register—just an open till,
Members helped themselves and paid into
the till; and the bar showed a handsome
profit annually. Pymblc takes the license
as well as the members. Both would seem
to be desirable assets.
* * * *
“The McHaggis”: Some golfers have—
from a Scotsman’s viewpoint—a perverted
sense of humor. A well-known Sydney
player who had been off his game for some
time desperately announced recently that
when he broke the 100 mark he would shout
for all and sundry. A little later he won
a competition with a card of 98. He stood
up to the home attacks, but when he got
a cable from Maoriland, where two or three
of his pals were holidaying, he jibbed. The
cable ran : “Have heard of your success ;
send money. Will celebrate in this coun-
try.” lie ignored it, and then came an-
other : “llow can we celebrate without
money? Please add exchange.”
•i» a* :jc
“Ainslie”: The committee of the Can-
berra golf club is perturbed because of a
young woman who went round the course
in shorts. The chances are that if the grass
was fairly well grown, the edges of the skirts
worn by the other girls were heavily loaded
with the curse. Not all of. them are so
fortunate as a Western Queensland acquaint-
ance of mine who owned a kelpie. When
she came back to the verandah of the 19th
the dog would meticulously go round the
edge of her skirt and pick out every grass
seed with his mouth.
“Colonel Damurize”: Though, as my
readers will recall, I have never had much
time for associate players, I must say that
I am in sympathy with the Canberra golfer-
ina who turned out in “abbreviated silk
shorts,” to quote the Sydney press version
of tlie affair. It was an “affair,” because
one associate member of the intended four-
some withdrew in shocked modesty. The
others then went on with a three-ball game.
In these days when women and girls on
hiking parties habitually stroll about the
country in a variation of the Boy Scout
costume, it seems an absurdity to rebel at
the golfer in a similar garb. I have to say
at the same time that there should be a
wise discrimination observed. I have in
mind one or two Australian golfing asso-
ciates of prominence whose outline is more
suited to a crinoline than to shorts.
“Hoylake”: Once more we hear of the
possibility of a women’s golf team visiting
Australia. England is sending a clutch of
flappers to South Africa next season —let
me explain that all associate golfers arc
officially flappers—and there is a move afoot
to get the team, which numbers four
players and a manager, to come on to Aus-
tralia. Rene Austin, secretary of the Aus-
tralian women’s golf organisation, has got
in touch with the opposite numbers on the
other side and, though nothing definite is
known, possibilities are quite attractive.
Brass, of course, will be the trouble. The
N.S.W. women have the nucleus of a fund.
If their sisters in the other States join in
there should be no trouble in raising the
money.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: The coming year promises to
see a strenuous battle for the world’s motor-
speed supremacy. Malcolm Campbell is to
make an attempt to better his own record
at Daytona, and is having his Bluebird fitted
with a Schneider Cup Rolls-Royce engine.
The 12-cylinder engine develops 2650 h.p.,
one h.p. for every .711 b. Of weight. The
Millers, famous American designers _ and
builders of speed cars, will compete with a
16-cylinder car of 54,000 c.c. capacity, the
engine mounted in a special chassis. It is
likely that Kaye Don’s Silver Bullet will
also figure in the contest, a new set of Sun-
beam engines having been installed.
“Ikona”: The beaks in the traffic courts
hear some weird excuses in the course of
their job. Sydney supplied something out-
standing in this line the other day. One of
the lads of the village was hauled up for
not pulling up when required. He explained
that when he had climbed into the driving
seat he had slammed the door on the leg of
his Oxford bags without noticing it. When
his foot reached for the brake it couldn’t
get there, held tight by the bags. The Bench
looked at him hard, but decided to call
it a go, and dismissed the charge.
* JH *
The Vacuum Oil Co., which recently
issued a successful handbook for motorists
under the title “Inside Information,” has
supplemented this by another specially writ-
ten by a woman driver for women drivers.
The subject is covered in admirable style,
though the omission of any reference to
back-seat driving, in which women are
notoriously proficient, comes as a surprise.
* * * *
“Disc Clutch”: One of the closing races
of the European motor-car season is the
Brooklands Racing Drivers’ 500-mile run.
It is a handicap event, and was won by an
M.G. Midget with a supercharged engine
of 746 c.c., driven by R. Horton and J. 11.
Bartlett. The little pram actually main-
tained an average of 96.29 m.p.h. for the
500-mile spin. Clive Dunfee, one of Eng-
land’s best drivers, was killed when driving
the biggest car in the race, a 7963 c.c. Bent-
ley, which ran off the track. This car was
allowing the little ones about an hour and
a half.
Miscellaneous
“Blade Sight”: A wonderful bit of rifle-
shooting was seen in Sydney the other day
when R. E. Churchward, of the University
rifle team, made a British Empire record
over 300, 500 and 600 yards. Application
firing at the new Bisley type target he
scored 148 points out of a 150 possible, the
range scores being 49, 50, 49. The previous
best ten-shot record over these ranges was
147.
$ * $ $
“Swivel”: Rowing folk the world over
are keenly interested in a new form of row-
ing which has been evolved in England by
the ex-Melbourne Grammar oarsman W.
Sambell, who is now at Cambridge and in
the eight. At present the reach forward
after the recovery checks the run of the
boat, no matter how perfectly timed it may
be. The new method, called by its sponsor
“syncopated rowing,” is designed to prevent
the check. Details are lacking, but the
method seems to consist in a system of
syncopation after the crew has moved off in
orthodox style. The rowers work in pairs,
there being six instead of eight. Bow
and two, three and four and five and
stroke hit the water in pairs at intervals
slightly in advance of each other. One
pair of oars will thus always be in tin-
water propelling the boat. Personally tin-
writer would prefer bow to all other posi-
tions in the crew. There would be no one
behind him to ram him in the back if the
syncopation timing was a bit faulty.
❖ sjs ❖
“Fitzcray”: Victoria, which has won the
last two inter-State races for the King s
Cup, is making preparations to defend the
trophy next year, when it will be rowed for
in Brisbane. G. Anderson and W. N. Ricketts
have been appointed selectors. Both were
concerned in training and coaching last
year’s crew. Ricketts was the official coach
this year and will probably act again, since
the selection lies in the hands of the selec-
tion committee.
“Hotliam” : The Victorian -athletic authori-
ties have struck trouble over their attempt
to bring out three American. athletes and
a manager. N.S.W., Queensland and
Maoriland, when asked to share in the tour,
turned the proposition down flatly. The
trouble is that Victoria’s terms are too
stiff. For a limited number of meetings.
N.S.'VV. and M.L. were asked to fork out
£2OO or 10 per cent, of the gross gate, which-
ever was the larger. Queensland’s cut was
rated at £l5O, while all the' States con-
cerned were asked to house and entertain
the visitors at their own expense. The
Victorian plea is that the visit will cost
tlio Cabbage Gardeners £lOOO, and they
naturally want their money back.


TRADE %/ MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAYBESTOS
“Silver Edge.”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
“Lost that morning' headache
Now I sticK to Dickens”
The genuine Old Scotch.
Bottled in Bond.
Scotch
PfccmsvLd'O-n y c'/Lttcoo-tyxL, Sf-y^Lttx^ . —— dQ
COMMONWEALTH
LOAN
£8,000,000
The Commonwealth is now receiving applications
for a 3!% Loan, repayable 15th December, 1942.
All persons with money available for investment —
from upwards—can invest in the Loan. A £lO
Bond will yield 7/6 interest yearly.
There is nothing more readily saleable than Com-
monwealth Loans. This is important, as the investment
can be turned into cash at any time.
Money put into this Loan will earn interest from
the date of its lodgment —and all interest is FREE OF
STATE INCOME TAX AND COMMONWEALTH
SUPER TAX.
Full particulars and application forms obtainable from
Banks, Savings Banks,
Money Order Post Offices,
Members of Stock Exchanges.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra, F.C.T.
J. A. LYONS,
Treasurer.
The Useful Xmas Gift
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., and Jin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/- each, post free.
Tshe PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case-
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 1407-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—fin. and Jin.
Kach
set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
COR
PLUS
The New BLUE Petrol
"C.O.R” Plus is tinted
blue to denote the pre-
sence of a sped il com-
pound of lead w) idi gives
controlled combustion and
freedom from pinking with
to-day’s higher com-
pression ratios. A
minute quantity of
harmless aniline dye
gives “C. 0.8.” Plus
the blue colour which
is your guarantee
that you are getting
what you pay for.
EVERY MAN WHO USES “PLUS
STARTS HALF-A-DOZEN MORE/
That’s an extraordinary thing about “C.O.R” Plus. Those who
use it tell their friends. Even the man who normally keeps a
“good thing” a dark secret cannot do so with this modern motor
spirit. .. He talks about it... can’t help it. . . Because the difference
in his car’s performance is so remarkable that he has to tell every-
body. Anyhow, its new power and smoothness tell a tale to those
who knew its former gait. And, of course, they want to know why.
Then they change to “Plus”. So it goes on . . . That’s why the
C.O.R delivery waggons just now are working overtime.
WHAT ABOUT YOU ? ' lt
missing real motoring satisfaction—missing the thrill of perfect
performance.
CO WPM
PLUS
WHAT?
PLUS A LITTLE SOMETHING
OTHERSHAVENT GOT
I '
and tractor owners!
cor-
POWER"
KEROSENE
is as great an advance in tractor fuels as is
“C.Q.R” Plus iti the Petrol field. Try
this really fine Kerosene in your tractor.
9*oC eS
C.,44/16/32
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Persian Oil Co. Ltd.),
Poolman St., Port Melb. 117 Pitt St., Sydney. Agents for S. Australia and Queensland : Dalgety & Co. Ltd.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.


sdf
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Oauitteid,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
GOOD information about newspapers can be
got from travellers. For instance, a dentist
who has been all round the Western interior of
N. S. Wales recently has been telling people how
he found “The Barrier Miner” everywhere on
his tour —at every station and homestead. Of
course, that’s no news to most of us, but it is
interesting to be reminded of it now and then.
“The. Barrier Miner” has been published at
Broken Hill twice or more every day for the
past .44 years, so it is no stranger at any out-
back place in this State, in the real Far West.
A BAD FORM OF
RHEUMATISM
Atrophic Arthritis
The “atrophic” type of arthritis or rheumatism is
more common among women than men. If neglected,
the bones may waste away, while the joints become
quite stiff. The seat of this rheumatic infection
may be found in the bowels or the geriito-urinary
tract. Constipation may be present. There is often
pallor, headache, a little fever, a . rather sudden
“achey” feeling. The joints become stiff and sore,
the trouble occurring anywhere from the jaw joints
to the feet. Sometimes the back is affected and
the chest cannot be expanded when a long breath
is taken. Treatment as follows is recommended:
Rest and right diet-are important. Avoid potatoes
and sweets. Eat ripe fruit, green vegetables, eggs
and butter. Milk is good. Improvement, as a rule,
comes very quickly when the trouble is directly
attacked by Harrison’s Fills, the remedy of a London
doctor. These act antiseptically; they dissolve
uric acid, tone the kidneys and clear up bladder,
bowel and geriito-urinary disorders. . Joints ease
remarkably within a very short time of commencing
to take Harrison’s Pills; painful swellings go; move-
ment becomes easy and free; health definitely im-
proves. Harrison’s Pills, an effective remedy for
any form of rheumatism, backache, kidney, bladder
or uric acid trouble, are sold by all chemists in
three inexpensive sizes. They succeed where other
remedies fail, and cannot harm the most delicate
person.
THREE
BIG FACTORS IN THE
PROSPERITY OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
WHEAT, WOOL,
GOLD
STUDY THESE FIGURES!
WHEAT.
1931 .. 41,000,000 bushels
1932 .. 45,000,000 bushels
WOOL.
1931 .. 208,000 bales
1932 .. 210,000 bales
The number of sheep in W.A., this year is
a record, the total being 11,000,000.
GOLD.
1931.. 510,51202.
1932.. 600,0000 z. (est’d)
If you desire to advertise in the West,
there is ONE big factor to help YOU
to Prosperity. It is Western Australia s
largest newspaper,
THE
Nett Sales 38,000 copies weekly.
tf.S.W. Office: Wingello House, Angel
Place, Sydney. 85690.
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL: LILAC TIME.
KING’S THEATRE :
DAME SYBIL THORNDKiE in
GHOSTS.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
All the world loves a lover, so the Royal
was crowded out on Saturday fpr the open-
ing of “Autumn Crocus,” which'is as full of
romance as a potpourri jar of perfume. It
was one of the best-dressed audiences of the
year. The night was warm and soft, and
woman wrapped her shoulders in lace, and
left her frock free to all the world. Dorothy
Brunton, sittiug iu a box with her hus-
band, was caped in white crochet lace, and
was shining white from shoulder-strap to
shoe. Madge Elliott’s slimness was sheathed
in white satin, all pin-tucked. The little
Viennese lady Mrs. Shall, wife of the play’s
handsome leading man, sat with Charlie
Westmacott and was in green organdie,
very fitting to the contour and then billow-
ing out to a great fulness. Her sleeves were
unusual. They left the upper arm bare,
then started in a tight band and finished in
a puff. The T. R. Bavins were there, he
looking much better in health. Frank Leigh-
ton was an applauder, and those permanent
first-nighters the Spencer Bruntons and the
Sep Levys and the Allen clan were there in
radiant raiment. A frock of white chiffon,
hand-worked in Czechoslovakian embroideries
from waist to knee, was worn by tall
Florence Bennett, and later there was a
polite swarming over the vestibule and
Winter Garden of the Australia, where
everybody seemed to be gathered, from Earl
Beauchamp to Gus Bluett.
The Royal Empireails staged their big-
party of the year last week, and moved the
scene of action from their Bligh-street
stronghold to the Wentworth. Here ' there
was room to stretch the legs, and once the
prizes for the essay competitions had been
distributed to the four alert schoolgirls who
had won them in open competition with their
male brethren, dancing occupied the many
and bridge the minority. Sir Philip Game
handed out the awards to the budding
Stracheys and Macaulays, and newspaper-
knight Hugh Denison looked quite fatherly
as the girls took their awards, but clicked
his tongue with apprehension at the way
Eve was leaving Adam behind in the air, on
the air and with the pen.
Lady Game came to this junketing very
handsomely arrayed in a rose-pink satin
frock which had its little cape coat to match.
These roseate colorings, Miss Crowdy’s
mignonette-green chiffons and the beflagged
dais made a spirited composition that Went
well with the National Anthem. Hugh
Denison’s lady’s diamond earrings threw a
spotlight on the official group, and her black
lace frock swung a short-beaded cape. The
Mayoral Walders were there, she in silver
embossed pink chiffons, with hip-lengtli black
chiffon cape printed in red roses. Mrs. H.
J. Feakes’s satins glowed wine-red, and she
carried her head with distinction. Twilight
blue was the color caught in the satin frock-
ing worn by Mrs. F. B. Heritage. Mrs.
Roystone Davey was one of the handsomely-
frocked, and sported grey fur borders on
her terra-cotta chiffons. Kelso King’s lady
chose grey laces, and Mrs. Norman Lowe
glittered even as the rainbow fountain in a
sultan’s garden, so thickly was her black
frock studded with rhinestone and silver.
The affair was handsomely done, the guests
represented the city’s business and public
affairs, husbands came with their wives and
girls with their own fiances. In short, it
was a typical Royal Empire Society’s party,
and secretary W. G. Layton had scored an-
other success.
In this year’s Christmas Bulletin
woman again lias pride of place in the short-
story section: Katharine Susannah Prichard
wins it with a vivid goldfields tale, longer
than the usual Bulletin short story, but
so rich in humor and “character” that it
isn’t half long enough; Velia Ercole, whose
“No Escape” won high praise in London
last year, also reaches a place in this sec-
tion. Among the verse-makers woman isn’t
s'o lonely: she is as numerous there as men.
But when it comes to black-and-white she
falls away again : of 30 artists represented
only three are women. The great number is
to be on the bookstalls on Deo. 14.
This Letter overheard a visitor to one of
our big art shows remark that she had heard,
of course, of Gladys Owen as an artist, but
she didn’t know anything of Sid Long. Pro-
bably the same lady, judging by her accent
and her expensive lorgnette, would go as
far, grudgingly (like one w’ho doubts whether
art is really a gentlemanly occupation), as
to admit that a rumor of Harry Dangar’s
activities with pencil and paint-brush had
reached her. Anyway, everybody in the Social
Calendar, and everybody who aspires to get
into it, has been visiting the young nian’s
show in the Grosvenor Galleries. Picture
lovers, too, have been there, for Harry cap-
tures the early-morning light on trees and
countryside with a freshness only possible
to one who loves the soil he sprang from.
Former Justice Gordon’s lady, in a smart
little black suit thickly beflowered in white,
opened the show, but before the benediction
of her approval had stirred the pool of public
opinion half the delicious pictures had been
mopped up. Among the purchasers were
the artist’s cousins, Noreen and Patsy
Dangar, who will hang the walls of their
new home with “Spring Willows” and the
tinted drawings illustrating Rupert Brooke’s
“Day I Have Loved,” “Grantchester” and
“The Soldier.” Their mother, Mrs. Gordon,
bought a bit of the morning at Gostwyck (a
Dangar stronghold). With unerring in-
stinct Arthur Allen went straight for
“The Jacaranda.” Fairfaxes and Maple-
Browps were among the ready-of-purse, as
was Mary White, of Scone. All horse-lovers
will be interested in “Peter Pan’s Play-
ground.” which shows the wide paddocks
where the Melbourne Cup winner frolicked
as a foal.
Another of her Independents has been
seized from Doris Fitton by the J. C. Wil-
liamson firm. This is Grace Hart, the Tessa
'Of “The Constant Nymph,” so much admired
by Sybil Thorndike. Grace is to play the
flapper daughter to Margaret Rawlings’s
young mother in Harrison Owen’s “Dr.
Pygmalion.”
This Letter would not' be representative
of the week without dropping its flower to
' the memory of Dr. Charles Clubbe. Royal
Alexandra, where he was honorary surgeon
for 36 years, grew under his presidency from
a small place of 50 beds to the present home
of healing with 340. Royal Alexandra, .is
the largest hospital for children in the Brit-
ish Empire, and has been acclaimed by visit-
ing authorities the best-equipped institution
of its kind in the world. Every local society
for the benefit of mothers and sick children
held Dr. Clubbe’s practical interest; among
them notably was the Deaf and Dumb and
Blind Institution. There ore a widow and
five children sorrowing.
The Fellowship of Australian Writers had
a record roll-up to its before-Christmas party,
for the success of which president Dr.
Arthur Mackaness and secretary Marjorie
Quinn share the laurels. Marjorie, wearing
carnation-red laces the exact shade of the
flower in Earl Beauchamp’s buttonhole, stood
at the top of the Arts Club stairs, a very
graceful hostess, her arms filled with gladioli.
Joan Mackaness, the singer of the evening,
had a part-time stand beside her father,
whose tumultuous moment came when he
was marshalling his French for a welcome to
Consul Dussap’s lady. However, Professor
Nicholson wouldn’t have been ashamed of his
old pupil if he had overheard. Artist Norman
Lindsay and his handsome wife were guests
of honor, as were Cecil Mann and his tall,
blonde wife. The speaker of the evening
was I*. R. Stephensen, of the Australian Pub-
lishing Company, who cast, as far as
humanly possible, the horoscope of publishing
in Australia, throwing in, en route, a well-
turned compliment to old-established pub-
lisher George Robertson, beloved of even
those of us whose books he hasn’t sponsored.
The ballroom of the Arts Club was crowded.
Seats were arranged as for a concert and
stretched from the platform to the doorway,
and here came Mary Gilmore in a befurred
cape, and Dulcie Deamer with a berry-brown
back bared to the gaze of envy. * Nellie
Evans, Mrs. A. B. Crowther and Dora
Wilcox Moore were other songbirds of the
species, and Rod Quinn turned a contem-
plative eye on all. Lord Beauchamp (who
is writing his memoirs) greeted his old
friend D. H. Souter even as David might
have greeted Jonathan, and in his speech
paid a tribute to “Dave’s” sonnet on Henry
Lawson. Mrs. Coulson-Davidson from Mel-
bourne was among the orators ; Louise Mack
was a front-seatcr ; J. J. Ilardie, whose Bul-
letin serial “Cattle Camp” has just come out
in book form, was a baek-seater, as were bar-
rister John Gould and his starry-eyed wife;
while sitting in a corner doing pencil
sketches was Pixie O’Harris, the heroine
who last year flung herself in the shark-
infested waters of the harbor to rescue a
stranger. In the intervals between speeches,
Joan Mackaness sang Brahms and Josephine
Bell played Chopin.
In the Independents’ production of “Mrs.
Moonlight,” now filling to overflow the
Savoy, there is a part that calls for humor,
the kernel of
sentiment in
an austere
shell, the
fading of
m i d d 1 e-age
into the decay
of old age. It
is the out-
standing piece
of character
work in the
play, and Ger-
trude Johns,
the young
original of this
Monte Luke
picture, does
it excellently.
Gertrude, who
is a Melbourne
product, has
acted a great
list of charac-
ter parts, not-
ably that of Miss Shoe m ‘At Mrs. Beam’s.”
This is claimed to be a marathon in women’s
parts, and only to an actress whose mem-
ory is independent of the prompter could
it be entrusted.
The death of F. Sargood leaves his charm-
ing wife a widow for the second time. Form-
erly Lily Christian, of a .pioneer pastoral
family in N.S.W., she married Captain
(afterwards Major) Ted Antill of the Picton
clan. After his death she devoted much of
her time to Red Cross war-time activities.
Then the pull of similar voluntary work
brought together Mr. Sargood, a widower,
and the cameo face and sweet personality
of Mrs. Antill.
Dead, at 71, in the river-rimmed suburb
of Gladesville, Mrs. Emma Cooper Panton.
Edmund Panton, her lawyer-husband, was
the grandson of Sydney’s first postmaster;
her surveyor-father, David Kirkwood, car-
ried the first theodolite to help mark the
meeting of the waters of the Lachlan and
Murrumbidgee.
Nobody will ever be able to accuse Mrs.
John Barlow of having faith without good
works, for the lady is always to be found
energetic in some charitable cause. Last
week she was steering to success the yearly
sale of work for the Catholic Women’s Asso-
ciation ; and so good a saleswoman is she
and so attractive were the wares that before
Archbishop Kelly opened the fair dozens of
things bore the- “Sold” label. The Arch-
bishophanded a pound note to each stallholder.
Surely no one will turn a deaf ear to the
appeal to instal a lift in Weemala. one of
the houses that make up the Ryde Home for
Incurables. There are four floors in this
building, and patients on the fourth'
have not been down to the grounds for years,
as the journey up and down stairs is fraught
with too much pain to the sufferers. One
of the first steps towards the necessary thou-
sand pounds is a production of “Coppelia” by
the Burlakov-Lightfoot ballet at the Conser-
vatorium on December 5. A preliminary
party to help with the expenses filled the
Pickwick Club the other afternoon and
snared the Governor’s lady among the card-
players.
One of the latest to join the ranks of Aus-
tralian poets is Alan McNicoll, lieutenant
in the R.A.N. Alan, a son of General
McNicoll, is a great athlete. He has dark
hair and blue eyes and there is Norse blood
in his veins. No wonder the sea and the
spring and summer nights caught his heart
and brain during the just-ended cruise.
Anyway a fine book of sea-poems, set about
with atmospheric wood blocks, is the result.
The illustrations are by G. C. Ingleton, and
the book has the unique claim of being the
first poetry ever printed on a battleship’s
press. The whole was produced on H.M.A.S.
Canberra “during a cruise round Australia
in the months of August to November in
the year nineteen hundred and thirty-two.”
This Letter wonders if Earl Beauchamp
knows that Carthona, which he has just
rented for the summer, was built to the
design of Thomas Mitchell, Australia’s first
Surveyor-General. It was in Carthona, too,
that Mitchell died, that grand old man of
whom Lord Goulburn declared in the House
of Commons that his work would for ever be
“a monument to the glory of England.”
There’s a splendid pine tree on the lawn of
Carthona which was planted by Lord Audley,
who married a daughter of Sir Thomas. Oh,
yes, he who had fought with the Iron Duke
and had drawn the maps of all his campaigns
was knighted by Queen Victoria; and about
the same time was made a D.C.L. of Oxford.
Wordsworth had this distinction conferred
on him on the same day; poet and explorer
walked up for the bauble side by side.
Thomas Mitchell was a fine artist, and
one of his most admired pieces of work was
a composition of apples on a stem. The
apples are mellow to the point of decay, and
in the old days of Sydney, when Government
House or families like the Morts were enter-
taining a visitor out of the ordinary, the
Mitchells would always .be asked to lend
“the Apples.” The fruit, incidentally, was
grown in the orchard of Park Hall. Mitchell's
old home, near Douglas Park, on the Nepean.
When the history of the struggle of the
arts to live in Australia is written, there
should be one chapter headed “They Helped
One Another.” For that is what, those who
make their
living by
music, the
brush and the
pen are always
doing with a
splendid cn-
tnusiasm. On
December 5,
when the Aus-
t r a 1 i an-born
opera “Ool-
litt’s Inn” is
presented at
the Savoy,
there will be
no fewer than
50 engaged in
the production.
Foremost
among them is
s w e e t-voiced
Rone Max-
well, the sub-
ject of this
Dorothy Welding photograph. All are giv-
ing their services free, from conductor
Howard Carr down. He has orchestrated
the music which was written by Varney
Monk to surround G. S. Gurr’s gripping
romance of pioneer days.
This Letter visited a suite in the Australia
the other day that is clean-cut and modern
and old-Colonial, all in one. The newly-
decorated walls are water-green, the sug-
gestion of green even being carried up into
the ceiling. The furniture, all straight lines
(no curlicues), is in pale primrose, and
the curtains are of cretonne in tones of
russet and Granny Smith-green. Two dis-
tinctive features are the straight-fronted
chest of drawers, set where there was onc.e
a fireplace, and a long, horizontal mirror
over the sitting-room mantelpiece. This has
a red lacquer frame, and is hung by a thick
cord with a plump tassel for balance and
decoration.
There should be something to help the
Benevolent Society with its Christmas
cheer from the ball at David Jones’s last
Saturday night. The title of “Cricketers’
Welcome Ball” told its own tale, and all
the characters in the willow-pattern story
up-to-date made their entry on tumultuous
waves of sound. Jardiue was there with
his crinkly smile, and Plum Warner, liable
to grow more mellow in our genial sun;
Don Bradman. Stan McCabe and Alan
Kippax and the rest of them, with nice
girls for partners. Governor-General Isaacs
and Lady Isaacs and Sydney’s Mayor and
Mayoress were greeted by president Thomp-
son and a group of the society’s office-bearers
and members of the ball committee. A
colored Lion and the Unicorn made a cheery
background for the official table withi its
red roses and sky-blue larkspur.
Being a radio announcer isn’t anything
like the easy game it appears to the listener.
If a word is mispronounced or wrongly
emphasised there’s certain and swift correc-
tion from the head serang of the studio ; and
one girl told this Letter that her aspirations
to be “on the air” were shattered when
she was given a list of 200 names of Austra-
lian towns and points of interest to
memorise as a preliminary canter. She
said she might just as well take up law; it
seemed to her it would be quicker in the
long run.
Queensland’s quantum:—
The Governor went to the City Hall for the
Shakspearean recital given by Dame Sybil Thorn-
dike and members of her company. The Mayoress
received the guests in delf-blue floral-patterned
ehiffonette. She is president of the Women’s Social
Service League, which benefited by the performance.
Other official guests were Mrs. Forgan Smith, the
Blair lady, Irene Longman, Mesdames F. W. Bul-
coek, Percy Pease and M. P. Hynes.
Duncan Goffage married Beatrice Reeve, Balgowan,
in St. Paul’s, East Brisbane. The bride, who was
given away by her father, was in pink embroidered
organdie and rose-pink picture hat. Dulcie Jensen
’maided in powder-blue. Pink and blue dressed the
National for the feasting.
At St. Mary’s, Beaudesert, Alan Tilley and Kath-
leen Wilkie were made one. The bride was in
white mariette and Mechlin lace, with a silk
broidered veil. Marie Wilkie and Rita Tilley
’maided in white mariette.
A braw Scots welcome was given to William
McGregor, president of the Queensland Caledonians,
who has been away for seven months visiting hi'
home in Caithness, Scotland. There he purchased
his native village, and is now Laird of
Latheronwheel (which sounds like a hurried cycling
trip).
At Rowe’s the League of Women Voters entertained
Dame Sybil Thorndike, Mrs. M. 11. Arundel intro-
ducing her. A bouquet and a copy of the Barnard-
Eldershaw book “A House Is Built” were presented
to Dame Sybil, who wore a beige lace frock and
panama hat with touches of green and black. Mrs.
Arundel chose midnight blue; black and white was
worn by Mrs. Graham Wilson; Mrs. Morton Tweedie.
was in brown and gold; Mrs. Trotter in coco-beige,
Frederick Simmonds married Marion Black in the
Presbyterian Church, Toowoomba, the Rev. John
Armour officiating. The bride, who was given away
by her father, was in cream mariette and lace with
Brussels lace veil. Alice Hamilton and Thelma
Hatton ’maided in green.
Dorothy Free, daughter of the E. N. Frees, Sydney,
is engaged to Janies Dougall, son of the G. N.
Dougalls, Ascot, Brisbane.
For the Wynnum-Manly-Lota branch, Mrs. G. W.
Kdmonds and members of' the C.W.A. arranged a
concert at • the Star Theatre. , The Mayor arid
Mayoress, Mrs. Graham Mylne and the W. H. Barneses
were there. An Australian tableau was presented by
Coral Pound, and an Australian anthem—words by
M. Forrest, music by Mrs. Edmonds—was sting by
members of the Wynnum Musical Society.


UNEQUALLED in
Quality w Excellence
m-.
m
■z: v
1
m
V
mm
>WOO ■•^W^SfI^S^SSSS?
With over 64 years’ experience
behind their delicious perfection.
jy&fQTT
FAMOU S
AS CAM
i
I
J>
Q
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR THEM.
Cakes . , . 21b. and 31b. airtight tins
Puddings. Tins .............. ilb. lib. 2lb. 31b.
Glass Containers . . . lib. 21b.
sd
JEALOUS
STUART
CRAFTSMEN
Jealous of their past/ jealous of
their present'y jealous of their
future/ they etch the name
STUART on every piece ol the
crystal they fashion so lovingly,
so that it is known and admired
wherever beautiful glass is sold.
And because their skill is hcredit
tary > handed down from father
to son for many generations, you
can still pay as little as a few
shillings for a genuine example.
art
fig
10
p
r.
a
M
m
k
■2k%
;
If
Be sure to look for the registered name cc Stuart” on every piece you buy.
National in Name-
Comprehensive in Service
Whatever your walk in life—whether
manufacturer or pastoralist, shopkeeper or
farmer, housewife or saleswoman, lawyer or
doctor, artisan or clerk—the facilities of the
National Bank are available to you.
The experience gained through seventy-
three years’ participation in Australian affairs
enables it to provide a banking service covering
the requirements of all persons —whether their
means be great or small.
This widespread service is available at 430
offices and branches in Australia, and two
branches in London—all of which are closely
linked up with the Bank’s agents the world
over.
THE
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Total Assets . . • • £44,000,000
Capital Paid Up .... •• £5,000,000
Reserve Fund (used in the business) £3,000,000
. ■ -
HEAD OFFICE: PRINCIPAL SYDNEY OFFICE:
271-79 Collins St., Melbourne. 342-46 George Street.
Mr Can’t
k (
s
m
■
Mr Can’t nearly had a fit yes-
terday when he heard a clerk
in the office refer to him as
‘dismal Desmond.’ But there’s
no getting away from it, Mr
Can’t is awfully depressed
these days. Of course things
are a bit difficult —but gloom-
ing about the place never
helped anybody. If only Mr
Can’t were to keep clean in-
side, what a far brighter busi-
ness his life would seem !
Mr Can
You’ve only got to look at Mr
Can to realise how much de-
pends on inner cleanliness.
Why his cheerfulness and
confidence really do one good!
But then —every morning, you
see, Mr Can takes Eno. With
the result that waste matter
never gets time to poison him
and lower his vitality and
jaundice his whole outlook on
life. Mr Can is fit and cheer-
ful —because he’s clean inside.
you ?
Headaches, stuffiness, depression, sleeplessness, liverish -
ness, poor appetite - get rid of them all by getting rid of
their cause —take Eno every morning . Even while you’re
drinking it you feel and know that Eno is doing you good .
Toning and cleansing and purifying your system . Doing
what it has done for millions of people for sixty years
turning Can*t into Can !
Enos Fruit Salt
words <sno and ne zfruit Salt” are registered trade marks.
Sales (Agents : SBritish *tf. diuchie Go. £id., Sydney, €N'.S. C W.


Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN CORRUGATED
TILES FOR ROOFS, WALLS AND
WINDOWS.
HTHE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 6146/17 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for the
granting of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth of
Australia. Particulars of the invention
obtainable from Griffith, Hassel and
Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
JN THE MATTER of “The Real Property Act”
and
IN THE MATTER of Certificate of Title Registered
Volume 295 Folio 25 in the name of Frederick
Grundy. „ ,
FREDERICK GRUNDY otherwise known as Fred
Grundy of Smithton in Tasmania Baker is hereby
required to produce to me at the Lands Titles Office
Hobart on or before the twenty-third day of
December next Certificate of Title Registered Volume
295 Folio 25 to 1 acre 2 roods 27 2-10 perches
situate in the Town of Smithton in Tasmania m
the name of the said Frederick Grundy and now
in the possession custody or control of the said
Frederick Grundy to have Memorandum of Transfer
from William Francis Devitt of Smithton in Tas-
mania the Bailiff of the Court of Requests' at Smith-
ton to Mansfield Brumby of Smithton aforesaid
Gentleman registered and endorsed thereon.
GIVEN under my hand this 22nd day of November,
1932
(Sgd.) ALLAN A. RICHARDSON,
Recorder of Titles.
To Mr. Frederick Grundy (otherwise known as
Fred Grundy) Baker Smithton Tasmania.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryau> Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ----- BRISBANE
With offices at London. Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through f he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking jiisiness^
THE UNION STEAM SHIP CO. ANNOUNCES A
SPECIAL CHRISTMAS CRUISE TO
AUCKLAND (NEW ZEALAND)
BY THE LUXURY LINER
MONOWAI
LEAVING SYDNEY 23rd DECEMBER, RETURNING SYDNEY 2nd JANUARY.
THE TRIP INCLUDES A VISIT TO FAMOUS ROTORUA.
First Class Return (inclusive), £29/15/-
Cabin Class Return (inclusive), £24/15/-
No Exchange. Early Reservation Advisable.
UNION S. S. CO., 247 George Street, Sydney. Tel.: 87671.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckley [?] Nunn [?]
[?]
For Henley regatta we had a scorching
hot day, and the fashion parade rivalled any-
thing ever seen at Flemington. Organdie
was to be seen to the right, the left. and
round about, its wearers frilled almost. to
the teeth in some cases. The magpie effect
was much favored. The usual combination
was a white flounced muslin frock, the black
being supplied by a velvet sash, large hat,
gloves, a huge bag, silk hose and very high-
li eeled shoes. Sleeves ran from mere no-
things to puffs from shoulder to wrist. A
green and yellow flowered gown had several
frills of matching muslin as sleeves. The
necklace or lei of flowers made appearance
too, one miss sporting all the flowers of
the field upon her blue frock. The taste
in millinery was catholic, ranging from the
knitted woollen skull cap to the largest
possible hat in straw or lace. Many girls
looked cool and smart in all-white sports
suits of silk or linen, with white shoes and
stockings, panama hats and a spotted or
striped tie to provide a splash of color. The
decorated canoe procession provided a bright
spectacle, but there were no elaborately
trimmed up craft. The misses of Melbourne
who reclined while propelled by cavaliers
iu cream flannels dressed to match their sur-
roundings. The striped walls of the Lud
Mayor’s houseboat arose from masses of
foliage plants, ferns, scarlet and pink ger-
aniums and lobelia. Pink pelargoniums
decked the tea tables. Among Mayor Gengoult
Smith’s guests were James Elder and his
lady, she in brown and white patterned
crepe de Chine and brown hat; the Best
lady, who was accompanied by her daughter;
Mrs. Athol Fleming, whose royal blue frock
was made in pinafore mode with a white
blouse and felt hat; Colonel and Mrs. St.
L. Robertson; Mrs. Carty Salmon, in black
and white figured silk frock with a black
straw hat; Mrs. Nonnau Brookes and
daughter Cynthia, and the Richard Lintons.
The president of the regatta, George Fair-
bairn, and his lady, she in navy-blue pat-
terned in white, with a matching hat, enter-
tained guests on a moored craft which was
titivated with purple and pink creepers
and swe*t-peas. Pale blue and yellow was
the color scheme of the houseboat on which
were collected association subscribers and
members of the Australian Club.
Lieut-Governor Irvine attended the Cup
meeting at Bendigo, which was blessed by
sunny weather; and he was of the many
guests at tea of the chairman, J. H. Lienhop.
Mrs. O. Harris, who presided at the festive
teapot for her brother, was in blue georgette
with a black straw hat trimmed in blue.
Mayoress Niemanj raced the party in black
maroeain spotted.:', a green and amber, with
the same tints in’her black millinery. Mrs.
E. F. Harrison was tailored in brown wool-
de-Chino and brown hat. Secretary R. N.
Putnam’s wife was in floral navy georgette,
with a hat of a paler hue.
Brootli o r n
pictures here a
Russian
maiden, Sonia
Revid, who
has come to
this city to
visit her sister,
Mrs. D. Ri-
bush, of Caul-
field. Miss
Revid, who
has lived for
the last eight
years in Berlin,
is by profes-
sion a dancer,
and will give
a demonstra-
tion of her art
during her
stay in Mel-
oourne.
The Artists’ Society’s Yo Yo Ball was
held amid art posters and scenery conducive
to true Bohemian gaiety. Most prominent
of all was Father Christmas, depicted m
the altogether except for a bag of_ toys on
his back and a Yo Yo dangling in front.
The general effect was enhanced by frescoes
of youths and maidens in modern dress. and
goblins in enchanted forests, all practising
the technique of the game.
Two rosy flamingoes perched upon
green tortoises, a fierce-looking dragon and
some other oddments graced Melba Hall
when Prof. Bernard Ileinze and the com-
mittee of the Uni. Opera Society gave a
dance to the chorus of the Williamson opera
co. Prof. Heinze brought Mrs. Heinze,
whose satin gowii of deep vellum hue had
an embroidered corsage of pearls. She
received a posy of red roses, a similar com-
pliment being paid to Mrs. Crow, wife of
Mr. Sutton Crow, of the Uni. Con. Mrs.
Crow’s yellow pansies and roses had as
background a frock of black georgette figured
in a floral design. Violet Parkinson, who
did much of the accompanying for rehear-
sals, was there in black lace, and violinist
Her mi a Barton wore a frock of parchment-
colored satin and georgette. Her sister
Phoebe was in ruby-red lace with a deeper-
tinted velvet coat.
In connection with the Anglican Synod
there was a garden party at Bishopseourt,
when Archbishop and Mrs. Head enter-
tained members. The weather was fine and
tea was served beneath the spreading boughs
of famous old trees. Lieut.-Governor Irvine
was there attended by Major Wilkinson.
Mrs. Head had a black hat topping a crepe-
de-Chine gown of creamy ground patterned
in green, brown and fawn tints.
The Royal Automobile Club’s Christmas
outing for 1200 children from institutions
involved the use of 250 motor-cars to take
the young folk to Moonee Valley racecourse.
Among the attractions there were a merry-
go-round, Aunt Sally, Punch and Judy au
a ventriloquist. For the feast there was
everything to eat that kiddies like, arid _ t
give the day its crowning thrill a daring
aviator did aerobatics.
Whole families of dolls, together with soft
toys, books, Christmas stockings and sucn
seasonable delights, filled an alcove of the
ballroom of the Wentworth cafg when Mrs.
T. Wallace Mitchell gave a toy tea as a
preparation for the visit of Santa Claus to
the Frankston Children’s Hospital. About
a hundred guests accepted the invitation,
and those who were unable to be there sent
cheques or gifts. The Mitchells present
to the institution was a magnificent Noahs
Ark with two of every sort of animal arid
bird, including penguins, made by disabled
soldiers in England. The toy stands on
a table on wheels fashioned with sideflaps
that will extend over a crippled patients
bed. Mrs. Roy King, Louise Lovely Mrs.
Barry Thomson, Winnie Kellow and Elaine
and Marie Lucas displayed the gifts and
packed them up again. Mrs. Fleming Dun-
stan, Mrs. George Haines and Greta Brem-
ner sang; Joyce Walker gave her fiddle
some exercise, and Valmai Clarke, as a
smart middy, did a tap dance. _ A movie
depicting Children’s Hospital activities was
screened.
In honor of Marnie, daughter of Mrs.
Norman Falkiner, who is to marry John
Fitts, Mrs. J. S. Bloomfield staged a bridge
gathering, and the Stanley Hammonds’
daughter Joyce hostessed a before-dinner
party.
When Sir Hugh and Lady O’Neill arrived
in Melbourne they intended to make but a
short stay,
but on the
eve of their
intended de-
parture for
Brisbane Sir
Hugh was
hurried into
hospital for a
very serious
operation, and
it is probable
their journey
will not be re-
sumed until
the end of
January. Sir
Hugh is chair-
man of direc-
tors of the
Colonial
Mutual "Life
Insurance So-
ciety, and one
of the thirteen
Ulster members in the Imperial .Parliament,
his constituency being Antrim. His good-
looking wife, here pictured by Broothorn, is
English. She is chairwoman of the politi-
cal committee of the Ladies’ Carlton Club,
and an experienced public . speaker. The
O’Neills have three sons. The eldest, aged
23, has taken up the profession of insurance
broker; the second is at Cambridge and the
youngest at Eton. Lady O’Neill has had
several invitations to address women’s
organisations here, but her sick husband
occupies all her time.
Wearing black chiffon and lace relieved
bv sparkling embroidery, and a black hat,
Mrs. W. G. Sharp entertained many guests
at her home at Queens-road on a recent
afternoon.
Two medicoes from Maoriland were wedded
at Holy Trinity Church. East Melbourne.
The bride, Dr. T. Easterfield, who has just
returned after a post-graduate course at
King’s College Hospital, London, is a
daughter of Dr. Easterfield, director of the
Cawthron Institute, Nelson, and the ’groom,
Dr. Richard Hall, is superintendent of the
Gisborne Hospital.
Dorothy, third daughter of the G. C.
Robertsons, of Fairfield, exchanged vows
with John, second son of Mr. and Mrs. A.
W. Bernadou, of Auburn, at Scotch College
chapel. The bride wore white satin and
a lace veil, and was attended by the bride-
groom’s sisters Marie and Betty, in taffeta
frocks of peach-pink and leaf-green respec-
tively, with large shady hats. A small girl
and boy were trainbearcrs.
Patricia, daughter of Mrs. Hepworth. of
Camberwell, and the late Dr. A. F. Hep-
worth, was linked at St. John’s, Camber-
well, with James, only son of Mrs. I. Coloqu-
houn, of Camberwell, and the late Dr. Coloqu-
houn, formerly of London. The bride, who
was companioned by a small girl in a pale-
blue Greenaway frock, wore an organdie
muslin gown .of blossom-pink tint and a
matching shady hat, and carried a sheaf of
pink roses and delphiniums. After-rejoic-
ings took place at her mother’s home.
A stroll around St. Kilda beach is very
pleasant just now. Beaconsfield Parade, on
the South Melbourne side, is an apparently
endless series of green lawns, with wander-
ing little sandy paths that go off between
hedges of laurel and frequent groupings of
flowers and shrubs. The purple, mauve and
white stocks that break up the stretch of
grass round the recently completed baths are
wonderfully well-grown, and their perfume is
delicious. Cinerarias make a bank of vivid
blue, magenta and purple near the yacht club-
house. Last week’s touch of summer filled
the beach with bathers and picnic parties,
and swimming suits, wraps, and ’jamas
brightened an already gay scene.
In “Ghosts” Dame Thorndike as Mrs.
Alving looks like a picture from an old
family portrait album. Her black gown
with its bustle of generous proportions is
further embellished with pleated frills and
a train with a little cream lace collar and
jabot to relieve the sombreness. In the
first-night audience were the Percy Black-
bourns, Mrs. Pittendrigh and her sister
Mabel Kennedy, and Mrs. Arthur Moore
and daughter Betty. The Robert Bests and
Helene with Mr. and Mrs. Athol Fleming
were in the d.c., and the Albion Walkleys
w T ere in a box.
The three days’ Christmas fair at the
Royal Victorian Institpte for the Blind
opens to-morrow in the grounds.
Crowland’s communique :
The f6te held in the lovely show garden at St.
Wilfred’s, Aldgate, the residence of the late
F. 11. Snow, drew a huge crowd of motorists. The
Stirling District Hospital benefited, and the stalls
all did good business. • The girls of Stawell school
at Mount Lofty undertook the waiting on the visitors.
The opening of the Hackney Free Kindergarten
by Lady Hore-Rutliven was quite a social gathering.
The infant class formed a guard of honor and the
guest was welcomed by the president, Mrs. H. J.
Lipman, and the committee.
A big bridge party was held at Birk’s Piccadilly
Restaurant to raise funds for the treatment of infan-
tile paralysis. Mrs. Keith Miller was convener.
The Junior Red Cross sold cigarettes, and a bevy of
pretty girls disposed of sweets.
The Orontes carried several Adelaide folk to
Colombo. Mrs. S. J. Jacobs, of Glenelg, with her
companion, Miss Barton, will return on the Oronsay
by which boat her daughter, Mrs. Philip Jacobs, is
coming out from England. Mrs. Harold Reid and
her daughter Lynette are making a holiday trip to
Colombo.
Mr. and Mrs. Guy Makin and Mrs. Humphrey
Makin have motored to Melbourne. With their
families, they will spend Christmas at Victor Harbor.
The Guy Makins and Stanley Shippers have taken
Mrs. Harry Dutton’s house down there.
Mrs. E. M. Priest, of Burnside, with her two
pretty daughters, is off for an extended trip to
America. On Wednesday, Mrs. Priest gave a bridge
party to her friends at Birk’s Piccadilly Restaurant.
Artists may complain of the slump, but at Miss
M. Y. Andrews’ show of water-colors at the Society
of Arts’ rooms, where the Kidman lady performed
the opening ceremony, over 20 pictures were quickly
purchased. The painter’s garden scenes are lovely,
especially those portraying the massed blooms in
the Kidman garden at Millswood and in that of
Langdon Bonython at North Adelaide.
Barbara Brooks, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E. A.
Brooks, of Buckland Park, who ' marries Robert
Barwell, of Renmark, this month, was given a fare-
well tea by Mrs. Stanley Clutterbuck at Springwood
Park, Mount Lofty.
Sir Reginald and Lady Buckland will arrive by
the Chitral from England on a visit to Lady Buck-
land’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. T. E. Barr-Smith.
Away in the West:—
Lively and popular Jessie Meares, youngest daughter
of J. G. Meares, of West Perth, has become
engaged to Bob Sturkey, of Ipoh, F.M.S.
There have been many tea parties for Kathleen
Stobie, who has left for her home in Melbourne,
and for Doreen Hooper, a visitor , from Brisbane.
Entrance to the evening entertainment at Mus-
grove’s was by gift or silver coin, and a bulky
mountain of packages for stalls at the forthcoming
Children’s Hospital fete was the fruit of the effort.
Mrs. Davis and Joan Good were organisers. Mollie
Brennan and Tom McGregor opened the bill with
a one-acter, “The Perfect Marriage.’’ Rhoda Ash,
in a golden frock, lifted up her mellow contralto.
Jack Stevens did some rollicking singing, while
Edward Black, David Powell and George Macdonald
displayed their intimacy with piano, violin and
flute. In “Shall We Join the Ladies?’’ the players
were introduced by Barrie’s foreword, read by pro-
ducer Tom Louch, as they took their seats at the
dining-table. Henry Moseley, who has forsaken
the boards during the last few years, played the
host with as much polish as of yore.
Another very successful effort for the Children’s
Hospital fete was an afternoon and evening of
bridge at Mrs. I. Herman’s home in Nedlands. Mrs.
Herman and Mrs, R. O. Law had charge of the
flower stall.
The fact of seven schools being represented in
Perth’s new women’s club inspired the name of
“Pleiades.’’ Members of the Pleiades Club must
be past pupils of M.L.C., P.L.C., Perth College, St.
Hilda’s (which embraces its predecessor, G.H.S.),
Loreto, St. Mary’s or Kobeelya, and must be financial
members of their old-girls associations. The club
owes its inception to Mrs. George Norton and
Marjorie Stoddart, who have been elected president
and vice-president, with Helen Smith and Margaret
Giles as hon. sec. and hon treasurer. Its home
will be in Chancery House, the old abode of the
Naval and Military Club.
Elsie Saw and Chrissie Dods gave farewell bridge
parties for Marjorie Beresford, who has gone on
an extended holiday to Singapore and the •
Mrs. James Scott, of Singapore, will he her first
hostess.
Tassy talking:—
The Lieut.-Gov., the whole Cabinet and hosts of
other people, official and otherwise, gathered - for
the opening of the bridge over the King River.
To mark the occasion there were sports and an
official banquet, followed by a commemoration supper
arranged by the various councils. Now the summer
tourists will have new fields of interest, to explore.
Representatives of all the prominent women’s
organisations gathered to give the glad hand to
Lady Allardyce. The lounge of the Imperial was
the venue. The guest of honor looked youthful and
smart in a black and white check cr6pe with small
black hat and showed us that she has not lost the
art of public speaking, in which she always excelled.
Dell Mosey, Kathie Styant Browne and Nora Beres-
ford opened the new tea gardens at Entally Lodge,
lladspen, in connection with their arts and crafts
exhibition. Entally is a treeful and restful place,
an easy run out from Launceston, so they had a good
start off on their first day.
The T.R.C. race meeting at Elwick saw the appear-
ance of a new chairman in A. J. Miller, who succeeds
the popular Tom Lyons. The Millers had a big
crowd to tea in the pavilion, daughter Margaret
helping her mother with the entertaining. There
were few summer turnouts, but some very nice
tailored suits and light wraps were in evidence.
Mrs. Miller sported a dark blue and beige floral
crSpe with small blue hat; Margaret was in royal
blue with short coatee and blue hat. In the throng
were Mrs. G. Nares in dead-leaf tailored tweed, the
Nicholls lady in tones of brown and red, the Alan
Millers, the James Sprents, Mrs. Tom Lyons, knight
Elliott Lewis and his lady, the W. B. Propstings,
Capt. and Mrs. Stoyles, the Russell Ibbotts, Mrs.
Howard Buchanan and her two girls, Mrs. W.
Wolfhagen, Mrs. V. Crisp, the Norman Fergusons,
the Eric Brocks, Joi Chapman, Kathleen Agnew, the
Jones lady, the D. McLaren?, and the Wishart
Smiths,
Col. and Mrs. C. St. Clair Cameron are back at
their home, Fordon, after their trip to England.
Master Warden W. H. Strutt gave a unique
party recently at the Marine Board offices. The
guests were all lighthouse-keepers, past and present,
and some of the reminiscent talks of the older ones
should have been worth hearing. The party wound
up with the singing of sea chanties.


CUNARD CRUISE FROM AUSTRALIA
Mm
.■*%' „ " -»»ssss»-
The luxurious super-cruising CUNARD Liner, R.M.S. W CARINTHIA,” 20,000 tons, will sail
from Sydney on 28th February, 1933, on her World Cruise, calling at, amongst other ports:
Port Moresby, Lessa Sunda Islands, Bali Island, Java, Straits Settlements and Malay,
Colombo, Mombasa, Zanzibar, Delagoa Bay, Durban, Cape Town, Monte Video, Buenos
Ayres, Rio de Janeiro, Barbadoes, New York, England.
Passengers may book in Sydney for any of the above ports (excepting Dutch East Indies) or for the
remainder of the cruise. Special Reduced Rates.
Full particulars from—
CUNARD LINE (C. & D. Line), 1 Bent Street, Sydney.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Brisbane —Sydney—Melbourne—Adelaide or Perth.
Or any office of Thos. Cook & Sons-Wagons-Lits (A/asia.) Pty., Ltd.
\V e ,
vs\e<
Ao^
ov
9
Y\o*
Ot e
\O9
W*
TfcV'®
S^v
\JO«
\9^
Si
$iS
■s
iif
>y-
-5
U/- Pr
'«//)
Ow
9
VV7,
©n
th
e/7<y
/Oo
?y>e
%
B
So
Wish
fsd
“Thank you, Madam! How do you
like your new Vauxhall? Do you
find it easy to handle?”
“It’s so easy—a child could drive
it! With this Synchro-Mesh Trans-
mission and Silent Second, I can change gears
when and wherever I like—without a sound!
And is she ‘peppy’? She’s marvellous!”
“Yes, I’ve heard a lot about this new
Vauxhall. It must be a great car, madam!”
• • 0
Rated at 26 h.p., the six-cylinder engine of
this 1933 Vauxhall develops 61 h.p.—and
gives true English low cost motoring. Drive
this Vauxhall and you will understand why
it’s called “the car with the silky perform-
ance.” General Motors-Holden’s Ltd.
Consult your*.
LOCAL AUTHORISED VAUXHALL DEALER
SHADOW SHOWS.
Maisie Gay is the chief character in Th.
Old Man,” at Sydney Mayfair. It has the
defect of so many British pictures; the
action is held up so that the star may get
a chance to exploit his or her particulai
line of comedy or whatever it may be. In
Miss Gay’s case it is the portrayal of
inebriation ; she is the Empire s leading ex-
ponent of female drunk parts Speaking
personally, this writer finds her humor tedi-
ous, not to say revolting, but the old-
fashioned business i.s still good for plenty ot
laughs. As a Cockney maidservant, she gets
tight on champagne with the head waiter
of the country inn which is the venue ot
this Edgar Wallace thriller. In her sober
moments she has a fruity East End accent,
but as the alcohol does its work she becomes
more and more refaned till, at the finish, the
wretched old creature is talking like a. stage
duchess. There is no disputing the ability
with which Miss Gay accomplishes her task.
She has observed, and here reproduces, every
detail of the behavior of a vulgar female
who has over-imbibed. The objections are
that it ruins the continuity of the picture,
and is only amusing to the diminishing sec-
tion of film patrons who like that sort of
thing. The dialogue is smart in spots, but
there is too much of it, and what with one
thing and another the onlooker reaches the
climax in a tired frame of mind. The photo-
graphy and interiors are excellent.
* * *
The attitude of the talkies towards scan-
dal-scavengers is probably an accurate reflec-
tion of public opinion in the U.S.A. They
are depicted as interesting, but better dead.
Lew Ayres is the latest kahlumnist hero, his
medium being “Penalty of Fame” at Sydney
State. The daughter of the American Presi-
dent’s dearest friends has been kidnapped
by the Big Boy—another Capone. Lew finds
out, recovers the maiden by double-crossing
the Big Boy, whom lie then murders, and
is murdered himself by his victim’s followers
as he is broadcasting the details of his
exploits. It is a faultless production of its
dramatic kind, and the acting is splendid.
Ayres depicts a flash cad with the redeeming
virtue of courage. A study from life, no
doubt; a professional libeller who w
flash and a cad, and who feared a violent
death, would be a contradiction in terms.
Louis Calhern is interesting as the > Big
Boy’s subordinate —suave, ruthless, sinister,
yet reasonable. He isn’t a crude thug; you
see his point of view. Edward Arnold’s
portrait of the ridiculously conceited Alsotto
(Big Boy) shows imagination too.
“Red Dust,” which follows, would be dull
but for its fine pictures of jungle scenes.
They have been done before, but never quite
so well. Clark Gable is the he-man in
the solar-topee and riding breeches who
loves and is loved by his friend’s wife. Mary
Astor is the naturally virtuous matron who
is bedevilled by the spell of the tropics. . Mr.
Gable chivalrously packs her and her futile
husband back to civilisation before the worst
occurs, and turns for solace to Jean Har-
low. Jean is a lady of easy virtue who has
blown in uninvited from Saigon. She plays
the unsavory part realistically as regards
voice and manner, but declines to forego her
permanent wave and irreproachable gar-
ments. Mary Astor loses her 'wave in a
hurricane, but recovers it again in time
for the next sequence. Beautiful women
who move among filthy, unshaven and half-
dressed men in sordid surroundings looking
like mannequins on parade have helped to
destroy illusion in every jungle romance that
this critic has seen.
* * #
In “Guilty As Charged,” at Sydney
Regent, Edmund Lowe is an uncouth news-
hound, and Victor McLaglen an equally un-
couth ’tec. They are. pals, and red-blooded
he-Americans, so they swap punches and
abuse and steal each other’s girls and liquor,
.vet remain on amicable terms throughout.
McLaglen has to find out who strangled the
wife of a doctor. The doctor, who did it
himself, has planted various false clues in
the vicinity of the corpse and so shifts the
blame on Richard Arlen. Arlen is charged,
found guilty and sentenced to death, and
then Lowe meets his pretty sister. Because
sister is pretty he decides _ that brother
is~ innocent. Arlen only has 15 hours to live
when Lowe begins a feverish hunt for the real
murderer, who poisons himself when he finds
that the game is up. McLaglen and Lowe .
give convincing representations of themselves
as seen in a dozen recent films.
In “Week-End Marriage” Loretta Young,
though married to Norman Foster, insists on
sticking to her career —that of a typist. So
Norman’s socks go undarned, the bed isn’t
made, and the meals are awful. This drives
him to speak-easies and gaol. Loretta is
in danger of going astray with the boss’s son
when she learns that Norman is dying, and
flies to him. He recovers, and the shock
reforms them. George Brent, Aline Mac-
Mahon and Vivienne Osborne help in the
telling of this old screen fairy-tale.
* * *
James Cagney is the star of “Winner
Take All,” at Sydney Haymarket. As a
fierce little pug from a New York slum he
falls for a society blonde, and no one seems
to think the relationship peculiar. Why the
producer should have let Cagney say all his
lines twice this critic couldn’t, for the life of
him, make out. His voice is awful and so are
most of the lines. Hollywood has used the
story dozens of times. Marian Nixon is the
cabaret girl who loves James and gets him
from the society minx in the end. Guy
Kibbee is funny as usual.
There is a lot of clever character-acting in
“Murder on the Second Floor,” the support
picture. Sydney Fairbrother as an elderly
member of a band of hope stands out, as
she does in most of the pictures in which
she appears. It is a thriller of a conven-
tional kind with an all-British cast.
“Hamfat”: Many Australians have got
to Hollywood and done well there; George
Wallace is the first to receive a cabled offer
of a contract from the Yankee film centre.
The screenings abroad of the films he has
made for Efftee brought him the offer. Wal-
lace had rough beginnings, and graduated
through a circus to. vaudeville; Fullers’
desire for changes from the Stiffy and Mo
regime gave him his first big chance.


One Punch Palsy
By Montague Grover
Chapter XXXVII (Continued).
PATSY had certainly received more
punishment from Fenner than he had
ever received in any—or all—of his
earlier contests. There was scarcely a square
inch of his face that had not made contact
with the American’s fist.
“I say,” he cried, “can’t we' get away
somewhere for a week? Not Bear Moun-
tain, that’s worse than New York. I’m not
fit to show myself to decent people, and
I won’t be for a fair time.”
“As champion of the world, Patsy, you
will begin to understand the responsibilities
of Royalty,” said De Vernay. “You are
no longer your own master. You have made
yourself the property of the people; you
have assumed obligations which you cannot
ignore. Half a dozen of those obligations,
are at this moment outside the door.”
“But I’ve handed out my dope to the
reporters,” replied Patsy.
“I am not referring to the gentlemen of
the press, but to others. There is behind
that door a queue of astute gentlemen re-
presenting various business bodies, literary
and artistic syndicates, makers of sporting
goods, bootmakers, beauty specialists,
tinkers, tailors and candlestick makers.
Arrangements have been made prior to the
fight with all of them, or nearly all of
them, but they are now anxious that you
shall get busy with your part of the com-
pact.”
“You see them, Cyril, and make any
arrangements you like,” said Patsy. “Get
them away. Buff and the look after
me.”
De Vernay left the dressing room,
rounded up the exploiters of punch into
three cars and took them round to the
hotel, where he was still in conclave with
them after Patsy and Buff had been well
asleep for two hours.
Patsy realised the full strength of De
Vernay’s warning next day. He had looked
forward to the fight with Fenner as termin-
ating his visit to the East. He found that
the winning of a world’s championship was
only the commencement of troubles. There
were battalions of people waiting to see him
as he finished breakfast, feeling very stiff
and sore. There were radio promoters,
armed with contracts made with them by
De Vernay, in readiness to whisk Patsy off
to their studios, there to read off messages
prepared for the consumption of the whole
Republic; there were representatives of
press syndicates, bustling Patsy to give
them dope regarding his career, such dope
to be converted into serial stories of his
life “by Patsy Quirk, Middleweight Cham-
pion of the World,” or into hints on boxing
by the same author, calculated to make the
veriest novice who followed the instruc-
tions fit to fight in the champion class.
There were people with whom De Vernay
had contracted that he should do a vaude-
ville turn. Thei’e was one lone dramatist
who desired to write a play built ax-ound
Patsy’s life, the star part to be acted by
Patsy himself, on the basis of fifty-fifty.
Thei’e were moving-picture magnates, or
their deputies, wanting to know when Patsy
would be ready to start on making the
pictures to which De Vernay had committed
him, and suggesting midday to-morrow.
There were press photographers and
reporters by the battalion.
Patsy’s brain reeled. He had looked
forward to boarding the train at the
Pennsylvania station and whirring im-
patiently to Los Angeles to take Phyllis in
his arms. He found that thei’e was a room-
ful of dollar bills to be packed before he
could move. The afternoon papers brought
shoals of challenges—seemingly every adult
male in the United States w’anted to fight
him. The later editions brought challenges
from other lands; the champion of Canada
was sure he could knock out this sti’anger
from the antipodes. So were the champion
of England and the champion of Fx’ance.
But these individual challengers were with-
out the law; later editions brought those
who speak with authority—the fight pro-
moters. Soihe offered terms which to Patsy
appeared miraculous; much better terms
than he had secured from his fight with
Fenner, for he had not realised that it is
the holder, not the winner, of a champion-
ship who can dictate.
It was time for dinner before Patsy felt
that he had been an hour out of bed.
“Here,” he protested to De Vernay, “this
is piling it on a bit thick. I feel half in-
dined to do a bunk and leave you to have
it out with them.”
“The ingratitude of the democracy is not
to be compared with the ingratitude of
the capitalist,” placidly observed De. Vernay.
“Here have I been living laborious days
and making deals which are calculated to
place you among the idle rich. And my
efforts are received with contumely and
scorn!”
“I've got enough money already to live
on comfortably for the rest of my life,”
protested Patsy.
“Nobody has,” replied De Vernay. “You
overlook the fact that out of the gifts which
the gods of pugilism are pouring into your
lap, there will be a few. crumbs which will
fall from the rich man’s table into the in-
satiable maw of Lazarus De Vernay. In
effect, I have not been insensible to the
fact that I shall take what is known’ here
as a rake-off of twenty-five per cent, of
your profits.”
“I don’t grudge them to you, Cyril; don’t
think that,” said Patsy. *
“Then remember the Biblical injunction
and muzzle not the ox which treadeth out
the corn.”
“All the same,” grumbled Patsy. Then a
thought struck him. “The longer we’re
here, the longer it’ll be before you can
marry Edna.”
“That is, I admit, the catch in this
accretion of wealth,” observed De Vernay.
“For my own-part I would have willingly
abandoned my twenty-five per cent., but
private affairs have to stand aside where
work is concerned. That is a great prin-
Australia having now a book-publishing co. whose one job in life is to
provide the public with good books,*' as .many of them as possible Australian,
“The Bulletin” has had doubts whether it should continue to give space to
serials; but as the new co.’s o.utpUt of novels cannot begin at once, it has been
decided to choose one . from the supply of serials available, so that there
may be no break in the publication of Australian stories. The choice
has fallen on “Men Among Pearls,” another stirring tale of Broome and the
pearling-grounds of the Nor’-West, by Mrs. Drake-Brockman.
“Men Among Pearls” offers us some remarkably vivid word-pictures
of the little-known Nor’-West, and of the life the people lead in those remote
but exciting places, which'hold, the strangest mixture of races to be found in
Australia, as well as the queerest collection of splendid men and unscrupulous
rogues. Through it runs a strong story-—with more “love-interest” than
might be expected, though, naturally, it is not always the placid love of a
garden-suburb.
There is no big industry about which the general public knows less
than this of pearl-getting. “Men Among-Pearls” is a fascinating mine of
interest on the subject, with many brilliantly-written patches.
The opening chapters will be printed on December 14.
ciple, which obtains in every walk of life.”
“Well,” said'Patsy, “you’ve done well for
me up to now*. What’s wrong with pulling
out now? No more. Any . further deals—
tell them they must deal with me in the
West. And stall off those challengers. You
won’t have any trouble-about that. From
what I can see, when a man wins.a cham-
pionship here, he sits tight for a couple of
years before -he’ll:; look, at- another match.
The Boxing Commission, won’t force me
into the ring for a bit.” *
“I’ll do my, best,” replied De , Vernay.
“But it seems a shame seeing, good money
going to waste. The West can’t return-a
fifth of what this place can.”
Chapter- XXXVIII.
Phyllis, like Patsy; had looked forward
to a speedy reunion when the' big: figjht
was over, and she was plunged'into depres-
sion when she - received his • letter intimating
that there would be "a further - delay of
some weeks before he .came West.
.“Don’t get your tail down, sister,” advised
Luella. “You’ve got to learn that a man’s
work’s the first consideration. What do you
think I’m leading a life of single cussedness
for? It’s not for my health. I’m here and
George is out there among your kangaroos
because both of us have to consider his work
first. When Patsy’s work’s done, he won’t
lose five minutes beating it for little old
Los. But he’s doing fine. Don’t interrupt
him. Don’t write anything that’ll ihake'
him unhappy. Let him corner the dollars
while the going’s good. If I know any-
thing of that boy it’s you he’s thinking of
when he sees the kopeks, tumbling his way.”
Phyllis saw Luella’s reasoning and wrote
to Patsy a letter full 'of brightness and
optimism. She omitted to mention her dis-
appointment; but let herself go in her final
sentences, in which she told him how she
longed for the' day of his return and the
clasp of his arms again.
Both women had listened to the radio
story of the fight, and to Patsy’s message
to the people' of the United States the
following evening. They had read together
every line telegraphed to the Los Angeles
papers, and on their arrival had bought half
a dozen of the New York newspapers
printed the day following the fight.
When the pictures arrived they watched
through every round with almost the same
thrill as if they had been present. Phyllis
picked out De Vernay in a front seat and
Buff Cody in the corner and indicated them
to Luella. They screamed with excitement
at the end when Patsy missed that stagger-
ing blow which he turned to such good
account, and cheered deliriously when they
noted what few spectators of the actual
fight noted—the entrance of the police into
the ring.
“Phyllis,” remarked Luella quietly when
they had returned to Sixth-street, “what’s
your'religion?”
“Search me,” replied Phyllis. She had
acquired, consciously and unconsciously, a
considerable amount of the American idiom
during the past year. She knew when she
landed that lifts were elevators and trams
were street-cars. She had only once asked
at a market for a “tomato”; the look she
got made her demand “tomaytoes” since
that disquieting adventure. The same ex-
perience befell her when Luella asked her
casually to get five gallons of petrol at a
service station. The blank look on the
attendant led Phyllis hastily to correct the
order to one for five gallons of gas and to
call the laughing Luella a beast. Now she
was able to talk to hard-boiled people as
if to the manner born, and to think in
dollars and cents without doing mental
arithmetic.
“Well, you’d better find one,” replied
Luella. “That boy’s a Catholic if I’m not
mistaken, and you may strike trouble with
his family if they’re strict.”
UCf , . „ T ,, ,
'bo he is said Phyllis She remembered
that Stan had once told her that Patsy
was_a Catholic when she had called him
a Wesleyan. She pondered a moment.
“You know,” she added. “I never knew any
religion. Dad never Bothered. 'Beauty is
the only religion/ he used to say. But I
believe he was a Catholic. He was buried
by a priest ”
„m,' /• v i n r„ „ i a
‘•.That’irdo You re ; a.Catholic and dou t
you forget it. I don t suppose it matters
ten cents to you whether you’re married
in a Catholic church or an Episcopalian
Methodist”
: ur\ „i ,T . + if” om ;i.j
<(at -j T 1 ii U a <(q &
“No,” said Luella. “So'you .can save
a heap. of possible trouble by just going
along to the Catholic church and having
the business- put through with the right
amount of incense and candles or’whatever
it is. Fortunately George and I were two
of a kind, so. we just blew in to the nearest
Judge. It all counts the same when it
comes to the alimony, the gold-diggers say.”
“Well, you can put me down as a Catholic
or an Episcopalian or an Afro-American
Pentecostal Brethren if you like. I don’t
care as long as I get Patsy.”
“That’s the right spirit,” said Luella.
“And if I were you, I’d mention in your
next letter to Patsy that the wedding ought
to come off at, say, San Gabriel Mission—
the place opposite where we saw the play.
That’s more picturesque than the city
churches and something to keep in your
memory.”
“Luella, you’ve got* a great sense of the
picturesque. I wonder how it!is, being here
on the spot, that-you haveri’t drifted into
one of those producer’s jobs at Hollywood.”
“I often wonder myself,’’.laughed Luella.
“I suppose it is that I’m too busy with my
own work. But—l never tho'ught of it at
the San Gabriel Mission’ll make
a swell background for the movies of your
wedding.”; ' ' t
In her next letter to Patsy, Phyllis men-
tioned casually that she had visited the
San Gabriel Mission and it was such a
beautiful spot that she hoped their wedding
would take place there, Patsy’s heart leapt,
He had taken no thought of her religion,
and, although Mum was the least bigoted
person in the world, he knew that she
would be deeply pained did Patsy' many
out of his religion. Patsy shuddered at
the thought of hurting Mum, and yet he
wanted Phyllis. He must have her even
if he were to defy all the gods in Olympus.
He would have her . whether. -she ' were
Anglican or Presbyterian or Methodist or
Salvation Army. But now all was right;
he could breathe freely, walk into the pre-
sence of Mum feeling that, behind the love
she would extend to both Phyllis and him-
self, there would be no bruised spot on
her heart, nothing with which either Phyllis
or himself could reproach themselves. He
would have liked Father Phelan to have
married them, but even his regard for
Father Phelan did not let him contemplate
waiting for a return to Australia before
he took his chosen , girl into his arms, his
very own. He wrote back telling her that
the Mission suggestion had never occurred
to him, but that it was the very thing to
please him most. He and the boys had
passed through San Gabriel as they motored
out of Los Angeles, and Patsy had been ,so
attracted to the old building that he had
sent some souvenirs to Mum. Now Mum
would be able to look at those picture post-
cards and see the place where her son had
made his love his wife.
“And she’ll be able to let the Sydney
papers have the postcard to illustrate the
story of the wedding,” suggested De Vernay,
the publicity man rising to the surface. “As
far as my nuptials are concerned, I’m con-
tent to leave the matter to the Kelogg
family.”
Patsy was training no longer, but he was
so busy that he longed for the comparative
peacefulness of the camp. He made thou-
sands of acquaintances;.he could not stroll
along a street without being held up by
somebody he had met for live minutes dur-
ing the past few weeks. Whether he was
in Forty-second or Exchange-place or
Dover, it was all the same, everybody in
New York seemed to have made his
acquaintance since he had become, cham-
pion. Not that he had a chance to walk
more than a few steps anywhere; all day
long the motor was in constant attendance,
whirling him from one place to another,
until he seemed to be living out his life in
a dissolving view of skyscrapers, shooting
up or down in lifts, ducking into and out
of offices and studios, and more tired than
he had ever felt after a hard day’s work
at the Keira Main when at last he tumbled
into bed. . '
But all the time, he reflected, the money
was pouring steadily from the cornucopia
of Manhattan—that seemingly inexhaustible
cornucopia—into the vast vat which be-
longed to him and Phyllis. His share of
the picture-rights of the actual fight—
though Ejooker Fenner’s share was many
times greater—was almost unbelievable.
The syndication fees from his “literary”
work amounted to the winner’s end of many
of his purses.- The rake-off he received from
enterprising manufacturers of toothpaste
and chewing-gum would have, made Mum
think that the age of miracles had not
passed. De Vernay had done his work
well; there was scarcely an activity which
he had left unexploited. In fact, Patsy
kicked hard when he was invited to fulfil
a contract with a firm specialising in nail
polish. Many a prince of the Middle Ages
w 7 as ransomed for less than De Vemay’s
rake-off of twenty-five per cent, on the
receipts from these by-products of punch.
At last the demands on Patsy’s time
became less frequent. He had time to
breathe, to look around, even to spend some
hours in social pleasures with his intimates.
All except Buff Cody, who had been missing
the greater part of the time —seeing the
si gilts, he explained, during one of his brief
visits. *
“Gee, but this is a swell city!” remarked
Buff. He was already acquiring the ver-
nacular, as he had acquired early the
American manner of sartorial decoration.
“Truly said,” remarked De Vernay. “But
you have shown yourself such a devotee, to
its glories during the day that I should
imagine it advisable to spend your evenings
quietly at home—reading a helpful book,
for example, or recuperating tired nature
by a quiet game of ludo.”
“Aw,” commented Buff, “git work!” He
relapsed into plain Australian in the face
of satire. . .
At last all the golden aftermath of the
fight was cleaned up except the dramatic
moving-picture which was to be taken at
Hollywood. They vvere able to pack up
and taxi to the Grand Central, there to
commence the return journey to the West
—a journey to occupy some time, seeing
that Patsy had to appear in a boxing turn
at vaudeville houses every hundred miles
or so across the continent.
There was a big crowd of sporting New
Yorkers at the station to see them off.
Patsy was especially pleased to see Hooker
Fenner among them.
“Good-bye and good luck, Patsy,” he said.
“But remember I vrant to get back a bit
of my own. You w r on’t get that chance
next time.” •
“Good-bye, Hooker,” replied Patsy with
a grin.. “I’ll get it in an earlier, round next
time. .1 know your methods now.”
Among the crowd were Gert, Ola and Jill,
down to; see Buff off, and giggling with jov
when Buff introduced them to the bunch
of New York boxing heads whose, names
they had read in the papers and revered.
Gert herself did not-giggle. She looked
serious, and when, as the train was about


the SCENIC
PLAYGROUND
of the PACIFIC
Here —in this fascinating land—lie deep-sea fishing
grounds, lakes and rivers teeming with trout, thermal valleys
with their spouting geysers and boiling pools, Maori pahs,
mountain chateaux, beautiful sounds, fiords, glaciers and
mountain peaks—all within a few days’ travel of each other. .
Write for complete information, suggested
tours, fares, etc.
LETTER OF CREDIT TOURS.
Genuine tourist visitors can obtain
travel tickets, accommodation, etc., at
will in New Zealand, AND SAVE
EXCHANGE by booking with any N.Z.
Govt. Tourist Bureau in Australia.
N.Z. Government Tourist Bureau,
Box 365 F, Martin Place, Sydney,
and at 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Please send me illustrated leaflets
and full details of a holiday in New
Zealand.
ADDRESS - L ±...
SYDNEY
. *« ENGLAND
Linked by the marvels of America and the charm
of voyaging on the famous new liners . . .
w
MARIPOSA * MONTEREY
ri
.-'v.
Extremely moderate fares prevail
FIRST CLASS
Single, from
£lO5/10 R «„™ £194/io
CABIN CLASS
Single, from
£B3
Return
£152
AMAZINGLY LOW FARES TO AMERICA
in effect DECEMBER, JANUARY. FEBRUARY
SYDNEY
ROUND TRIP
First Class, from
ROUND TRIP
Cabin Class, from
To Los Angeles
or San Francisco
£99
£7O
PLAN YOUR HOLIDAY IN THE SOUTH SEAS
MINIMUM FARES from SYDNEY to
FIRST CLASS CABIN CLASS
Single Return Single Return
SUVA, Fiji . . . 25.0.0 35.0.0 18.15.0
PAGO PAGO, Samoa 33.5.0 65.0.0 24. 5.0 47.10.0
HONOLULU, Hawaii 55.0.0 75.0.0 38.10.0 55. 0.0
Many other attractive fare combinations to Europe
and Around-the-World. Fares subject to exchange.
Make your travel money yield a MAXIMUM RETURN.
Enjoy the comfort of these world-famous ships, the incom-
parable charm of a route starred by such ports as
AUCKLAND, SUVA, PAGO PAGO and HONO-
LULU. 18 days to AMERICA! 28 days to ENGLAND.
Here are luxury, economy, speed.
Next Sailings to America via Auckland, Fiji,
Samoa, Hawaii
"MONTEREY" DEC. 17 . "MARIPOSA" JAN. 14
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, SYDNEY. 'Phone: B 7981-3
Ml 2-
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
to move off, she kissed Buff and gave him a
red-blooded, two-fisted embrace, the boys
saw that tears were trickling down her
cheeks.
Chapter XXXIX.
They were able to spend some time in
seeing the sights of the various cities they
passed through. They looked on the Falls
at Niagara, they studied the iron and steel
works at Pittsburg, the Ford factory at
Detroit and the Dill Pickle at Chicago.
They saw Denver from Buffalo Bill’s grave
on the hilltop.
But they were serious almost to sadness.
Even the thought that each step brought
them nearer to the Western Coast failed to
drive the depression out of the souls of
Patsy and De Vernay. As for Buff, even
the glamor and fascination of the footlights
bucked him up temporarily. He had never
in his dreams imagined that he would be
cast night after night among a score of
beautiful and half-nude girls in the wings
of a theatre. But the relief was only tem-
porary. Beautiful and half-nude girls be-
came a commonplace after a week or two
and Buff’s thoughts were elsewhere.
“Still thinking of those scrambled eggs
for breakfast?” asked Patsy during a
moment of forgetfulness of his own fate.
“Some literary psychologist ought to
write a monograph on the relation of gas-
tronomy and the tender passion,” remarked
De Vernay. “It would be interesting to
note the reactions to various comestibles.
How the devourer of turnips cleaves to the
red-headed woman, how the steak-eater
prefers blondes, how the masticator of
chewing-gum finds solace only in the bosom
of the brunette.”
Buff was stung into resentment. “Well,
I never noticed what you was chewin’ on
that there boat, but it must ha’ bin some-
thin’ solid,” he cried.
“The rebuke was deserved,” replied De
Vernay placidly. “It was in distinctly bad
taste for me to scoff at the amours of our
good friend—and his scrambled eggs. Some
subjects should be sacred.”
Salt Lake City was their last show town •
before making Los Angeles—San Francisco
was to follow the fortnight’s honeymoon
mapped out for Patsy. They arrived at Salt
Lake City to scoff and remained to pray.
Their half-amused contempt for Brigham
Young changed to a deep reverence for him
as a great leader and a man of rare fore-
sight. They admired this wonderful city
which he had reared in the oasis of a desert
land. They were surprised to find the busi-
ness acumen of the Mormon Church, which
owned everything of value in the way of
big business in the city.
“I always had a deep admiration for
the business ability of the magnates who
control your Church,” said De Vernay to
Patsy. “But these people make the Vatican
look like a small and struggling shopkeeper
when it comes to making money. Do you
know what they control?” He ran over
the names of a score of important enter-
prises. “And every one, lock, stock and
barrel, is the property of this Church. One
of these days they’li own the whole State
of Utah, later they’ll own the United
States, later still they’ll own the earth.
What the Kaiser Wilhelm aimed for by
force of arms, these people are getting by
force of superstition, plus business acumen.
They take on nothing which isn’t profitable.
The elders cannot vote bigger salaries than
are paid in outside enterprises, and the
balance simply pyramids—goes into capital
for some fresh financial adventure. All the
Jews in Palestine are novices to the Mor-
mons.”
Buff Cody had wanted to see a Mormon.
He was deeply disappointed when he asked
the hotel clerk and was blandly informed
that the clerk was one himself.
They spent three days at Salt Lake City
and reached Oakland in the morning. The
Kelogg family were awaiting them, and
when Patsy saw De Vernay vigorously
hugged by Edna, with old Kelogg and Mrs.
Kelogg smiling approval, he itched to start
his own car for Los Angeles. He and Buff
bade them farewell as speedily as decency
would permit, and the two of them entered
upon the final stage of their journey, leaving
De Vernay to follow next day. They ran
through Alameda and San Jose to the coast
road. Patsy had not travelled by this
route previously, and its beauty appealed
to him. The sun was shining, the day was
bright and warm, to-morrow Phyllis would
be his for ever and for ever. The world
seemed a wonderful place, after all.
Buff Cody sat silently beside Patsy, He
was meditating. The world did not seem
such a desirable spot for residence since
there was no Gert to see that night. New
York was the only place to live.
“Cripes, what’s that?” he yelled suddenly.
They had just entered the Heavenly City,
with its gilt angels, its quasi-Biblical texts,
its ecclesiastical architecture flaunting in
the face of the passing motorist.
“Only one of those eccentric roadhouses
on a slightly bigger scale than usual,” ex-
plained Patsy.
“Why doncher have yer honeymoon
there?” demanded Buff. “If ever I was ter
git married I’d pick a place like that.”
“Not for me,” laughed Patsy. “Luella’s
fixed, everything up for us. Phyllis gave
the ideas and Luella’s carried them out as
the expert with local knowledge. I’m satis-
fied, wherever it is.”
They lunched quickly at Paso Robles,
delayed for twenty minutes at Santa Bar-
bara and in the final run into Los Angeles
hit up fifty miles an hour.
From Hollywood, they ’phoned their
approach, and when they swung past West-
lake Park to the door of the apartment,
Phyllis and Luella were waiting for them,
“Oh, at last—it’s been such a wait!”
murmured Phyllis in Patsy’i? arms.
“No more waiting now, darling,” replied
Patsy.
They greeted Luella, Patsy thanked her
for looking after Phyllis, not knowing how
much the woman had really done to keep
the girl from fretting, and Luella took Buff
Cody by the arm.
“Your machine’ll just come in useful. I’ve
got to get some things for dinner, for you
boys have got to stay with us. Hop in and
I’ll hand out the directions, if you’ll promise
not to flirt with me.”
Buff looked painfully embarrassed, took
his seat and drove off with Luella.
“Now then,” she said, “you can just take
it easy. All I want I can get at the market
at the corner of Alvarado, but we must
give them some time for themselves. They
don’t want us any more. Turn round and
skip along Wiltshire Boulevard to the
Miracle Mile. I’ll get those cookies on the
way home.”
Luella delayed Buff until it was time for
dinner. She drew from him with some
difficulty, for Buff was not a master of
condensation, their experiences in the East.
Luella was a good cross-examiner, and be-
fore they pulled up again at the apartment
she had learnt something of Gert. Buff
had not intended to tell anybody who did
not already know of the acquaintance he
had made at Coney Island. Somehow or
other Luella made it slip out before he
was . aware of it. Realising his slip when
it was too late, Buff made a further deter-
mination to maintain the fiction that Gert
was merely a casital acquaintance with
whom he had had no tender relations. But
the memory of those scrambled eggs led
to his undoing.
“For breakfast?” laughed Luella. “You’re
a fast worker, I guess. Breakfast together
the morning after your first meeting.”
Buff was overwhelmed with shame. He
was inarticulate at his accidental indelicacy.
Luella noted his embarrassment and felt
sorry for him.
Luella’s tone was so sympathetic that it
touched Buff’s sentimentalism. Bit by bit
he told her the whole story; told her how
Gert had appealed to him as no other
woman had previously.
“It’s ’ard,” he said, “fur a pure innercent
woman ter understand ’ow I could ha’
acted.”
“Not so hard as you imagine,” com-
mented Luella. “I fancy I know all about
it.”
“I’d be ashamed fur ter say th’ sorter
man I’ve bin. Yer’d shrink from me—any
pure innercent woman would. Yer know I
never ’ad no education; I jest grew up
in th’ ’Loo any’ow. An’ Gert done th’
same in Noo York. We was both bad ’uns
in one way—leastways I was—an’ I could
understand what that there girl ’ad ’ad
ter face. But she’s a good girl in most
ways.”
She put the third degree on Patsy later,
not directly, but by dexterous suggestions.
Gert had declined to accept any gifts from
Buff except of the most modest character.
And that before she knew his identity as
the trainer of a world’s champion and the
probable possessor of some reflected wealth.
She had resolutely refused to leave her
job to spend three weeks with him at
Atlantic City when Buff was at a loose
end after the big fight. She and Ola and
Jill, none of whom had made any pretence
to conventional virtue, had all drawn a
definite line between casual adventures for
affection or passion or love or adventure
itself and those based op a financial advant-
age. Luella was impressed with Gert. There
seemed to be nothing bad about the girl,
yet Luella could see her finish. Her adven-
tures would become more frequent, less
permanent, until at last she left her job
to be kept by somebody till he tired of
her. Then another and another until she
drifted, with disease and bootleg liquor
hurrying her, into the gutter.
“Well, what are you going to do about
it?” she asked Buff finally.
“Gawd knows,” replied Buff. “If I stayed
on in America, I’d get her ter come an’
live with me.”
“What about marrying her?” asked
Luella.
“Cripes,” cried Buff, “I never thought
o’ that!”
(To be concluded next iveeJc.)
Unchosen.
I have given my heart to Beauty, whoso
name I now confess;
She who is mistress of a world that loves
her little or less
Has chained me as she tethers a star to the
nethermost reach of sky.
I have given my heart to Beauty, and she
has passed me by.
Then shall I know my service scorned, in-
sensible of blame?
I came with but a faltering hand to tend
her sacred flame;
While in her courts her mighty ones fling
music to the sky,
How could she heed a minstrel who plucked
a lute awry?
Oh, I am the fool of Beauty as the veriest
fool of Love!
She has laid a spell upon me no litany may
move.
I would have been her lowliest so that her
throne be nigh.
I have given her my heart, my heart, and
she has passed me by !
N.S.W.
BEVERLY BERRY.


Pfer
£
M
\
ilUi,
M
-VC
r
rva
n
*p
ffELIMCi TME BuMPf/
o
1/0(7 wouldn *t go far without
your shoes /
Why then expect long mileage out
of a tyre that has had. its tread
rubber worn smooth?
Besides being dangerous on slippery
roads, a worn tyre is subject to easy
puncture and does not inspire con-
fidence. An ADVANX ROAD-
MASTER tread protects your tyre
from trouble besides being skid-proof,
and renders long uninterrupted mile-
age at a fraction the cost of a new
tyre.
ADVANX
TY-RE-PAIR
CO. LTD.
William & Riley Streets
(Head O ffice), Sydney
(Branches and Service everywhere)
AN AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY THAT LEADS THE WORLD
Drum-and-Fife Dolly.
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
YUS,” said Mrs. Towlman, of Essex-
street, standing opposite tlie north-
eastern corner of Sydney’s first gaol,
“I do declare to ye, Bridget, that girl gives
me th’ creeps, she do! Look at ’er there wi
that blarsted ‘lobster’ —’er, an’ ole ’and’s
darter, tikin’ up wi’ a sojer! Disgustin’, I
calls it, w’en all them fine young Currency
Lads can’t find a woman to cuddle outside
th’ grog-shops on th’ Bocks. She dunno ’er
dooty-—she ain’t true to ’er clorss. Drum-
an’-Fife Dolly, indeed! I wonder they
don’t call ’er wors’n that, I do. Bari’ick-
room ’ack an’ so forth —that’s wot she’ll be
gettin’ afore she’s very much older. You
see!”
“Thrue for you, Maggie,” replied the red-
nosed lady who bore the courtesy title of
Mrs. Bartle —many helpmates in Sydney
were only “Mrs.” by courtesy in 1832 —
“she’s nothink but a saucy baggage. _ Fancy
her a-comin’ to th’ hexecootion av ’er own
uncle on th’ arm av a red-jacket! W’y,
’twas f;h’ sojers copped pore Billy! If it
’adn’t been for them, ’e wouldn’t be a-gittin’
’is neck stretched this blessed marnin’.
’Eartless, that’s all she is!”
Mrs. Towlman’s modest dwelling stood
near the George-street end of the short and
rugged thoroughfare leading steeply to the
summit of “the Bocks,” and the hillside
above was crowded with merry or morbid
people come to enjoy one of old Sydney’s
few and most spectacular diversions. Mr..
William Hooley, lately practising as a bush-
ranger in the vicinity of Dr. Wardell’s Peter-
sham estate, was presently to mount the
scaffold at the back of the gaol and pay
what he owed to Government for the brief
and harried career of a highwayman, which
it had been his privilege to enjoy during a
few lively months, after escaping from a
chain-gang in the district of Liberty Plains.
His coffin comfortably awaited him at the
foot of the gallows, and he would shortly
emerge from the postern gate of the prison,
mount the ladder leading to the dangling
noose, take leave (it was hoped) of his
fellow-creatures in a few well-chosen words,
and dive suddenly, feet first, into Eternity.
It was a beautiful morning for his departure,
and his last outlook across Port Jackson was
an altogether charming one. The crowd was
good-humored and sympathetic, the hang-
man capable, and all things propitious for
his easy passing. He had not murdered any-
one, and it was generally felt that Father
Therry would be quite well able to arrange
for him a tolerable position in the life to
come. He really had nothing to complain
about. It was a transaction of public busi-
ness pleasing to all and well worthy of such
a superb morning.
* * * *
The affair being at an end, and the corpse
cut down and coffined, the subaltern’s guard
of soldiers marched back to barracks and
the gratified spectators went about their
business. Drum-and-Fife Dolly and her mili-
tary escort, walking into George-street,
passed close beside the two ladies standing
before Mrs. Towlman’s residence. The
latter ironically bade the girl the time o’ day.
“Good day to ye, Dolly Dimond, mo girl.
Y’r Uncle Bill med a good finish. Father
Therrv’s naught but a Papisher, but ’e do
prepare ’em well for th’ las’ kick, I’ll give
’im that in.”
“Faith, thin, if he is a Papisher, as ye
call um, Meg Towlman,” .indignantly inter-
rupted her crony, “there’s many a frightened
Prodistant does be afther sendin’ for um
w’en it comes to th’ finish. But ye’ve no
cause for shame. Dolly; y’r Uncle Bill died
game. Ye shud be proud of um!”
The pretty girl walking with the smart-
looking, big soldier —he was a corporal—
tossed her auburn ringlets and twisted her
red lips into a smiling sneer.
“Oh yes,” she laughed, “even a man who’s
been lagged can sometimes face death
bravely, without turning King’s evidence,
Mrs. Towlman.” (It was well-known that
.Timmy the Boatman, Mrs. Towlman’s spouse,
had earned a free pardon by giving away an
incipient mutiny on the transport that
brought him out.) “And I’m quite sure,
Miss Henessy, that Father Therry’d be
obligated for your good word. Good morn-
ipg to ye both.”
“Haw. haw, haw!” laughed the corporal
as he hurried her away round the corner
into George-street and the direction of the
Cove. “They could bite ye, Doll!”
“Little slut!” snarled Mrs. Towlman.
“Gutthersnipe!” croaked Mrs. Bartle.
“A glass o’ wine won’t do ye no harm,
Doll,” presently observed Corporal Trapper.
“A hangin’s not a pretty sight, even if it
is one o’ the family. Ye’ll need cheerin’.
We’ll go into th’ Fortin o’ War, and wet
our whistles, while we talk the matter over.
Indeed, y’r Uncle William’s treated ye
werry ’andsome, I mus’ say. Plenty eoves’d
ha’ taken their hinformation with ’em —if
’twas on’y to spite their ill luck. A good
covey, I’d say ’e was, w’en all’s said an’
done.”
“Oh yes,” she agreed, “wfe’ve no cause to
disremember Uncle. Are ye sure ye love
me, Tommy?”
“Strike me dead, I do, Doll —fair wusshup
y’r shadder.”
The corporal’s orders having been served,
he raised his pot of beer to toast the memory
of the hangman’s latest victim.
“To Bill ’Ooley—a real gent.! ’Andsome
is as ’andsome does, an’ Bill’s be’aved noble-
like, I must say. Gawd bless ole Bill!”
“Amen !” echoed the pretty girl, sipping
her wine. “But there’s one thing I don’t
like. Tom.”
“An’ wot may that be, me dear?”
“Why couldn’t Uncle Bill ha’ said straight
out where this stuff was hidden? This map,
and the marked tree near Clay Creek, and
all these directions he’s written on the
paper! Heavens above, how’re you going
ever to find the place? How much leafe ha’
ye got, Tommy boy?”
“A week, me dear —a week from last
night.”
“Well, ye’ll need it all. Tommy—an’
mebbe some more. What did ye tell the
Adjutant?”
“Told ’im I was a-goin’ for to be mar-
ried. An’ that’s th’ solemn—no, I mean
th’ ’appy truth. Ain’t it, darlin’?”
“P’raps —when we’ve found Uncle Bui s
plant. Maybe. But not before. ’Tis to-
night ye go, then? Have ye arranged tor
a boat and all the rest?, Tent and blankets
an’ cookin’-pots an’ all?”
“Everything, Dolly girl. But why wont
ye marry me now? I’d sooner we was
proper tied up, sweet’eart. ”1 would be
more honester like. Better for you. A lot
better for me.” , ,
“Oh, no, it wouldn’t, me lad. No corner
of a barrack-room behind a blanket for me,
Tommy. Not if you was the sergeant-major
himself. I want a home. If you find Uncle
Bill’s treasure —well and good. If ye
don’t”
* * * *
Very moodily, a fortnight later, Corporal
Thomas Trapper walked out of barracks and
made his way down George-street to the
waterside. He was going to. call upon the
lady who had jilted him when it had become
quite certain that thei inheritance left by the
late Mr. William Hooley—if it ever had
existed —was not to be found anywhere
near the place he had indicated as containing
it. Badly did the corporal consider himselt
to have been treated by the girl who had so
encouraged him. He almost convinced him-
self that he had been led astray by her, and
then heartlessly abandoned. Never had he
dealt with any woman as the comely but
mercenary Dolly had dealt with him.
Outside the Fortune of War—you may
still find the name adorning a licensed house
in Lower George-street—he was accosted by
an ill-favored individual whom he imme-
diately recognised as the common hangman,
Benjamin Brass. Scowling a little, he per-
mitted himself to be stopped, since the man
seemed anxious to speak to him, and was
even insistent. Of course, Mr. Brass was
a little tipsy, but that.didn’t matter.
“Well, what is it?” he inquired impa-
tiently. ~ , ...
“Muster Trapper,” said the fellow
huskily, “I was a sojer meself once an,
one time I was treated crool be a woman.
“Well, what’s that got to do with me,
damme?” growled the corporal.
“I’m hon’y a-tellin’ ye, Muster Trapper.
Me ole girl wot I lives wi’ now, Black
’Liza, she’s bin tellin’ me th’ talk o’ you
an’ Dolly Dimond down at Dawes Point.
Bill ’Ooley’s treasure, an’ ’ow ye went
a-lookin’ for it up th’ Parramatty River, an’
so on. An’ ’ow she’s throwed ye hover for
that there boat-steerer o’ th’ Yankee whal-
in’-ship. Well, now, I wouldn’t take it to
’eart, if I was you, Corp’ral. I’ll tell ’ee
for why—’cause there ain’t no flamin’
treasure. I know that for sartain.”
“Why, then, how d’ye know that, d n
y’r eyes, Ben Brass? How should you
know that?”
“Bill ’Ooley was a jokin’ covey—l knoo
'im well, long afore ’e come inter me ’ands
perfeshnal-like. A fortnight ago ’twas yes-
tiddy, as we was a-walkin’ up th’ ’ill to
th’ gallus, ’e says to me, ‘Ben,’ ’e says,
‘you likes a laugh, I know. Well, I’ve
gammoned to that there gal o’ me brother
Dick’s that I’ve left ’er a nest-egg for to
git marrit on. You twig ’er capers,’ ’e
says—-w’y, strike me blue, Corp’ral, ’e was
still a-laffin’ w’en I turned ’im off! ’E’d
’ave ’is joke to th’ werry last, would Bill.
’Twas jest ’is liddle bit o’ fun. ‘There
ain’t no treasure —’tis on’y gammon,’ ’e
says. Most remarkable ’igh spirits, Bill
’ad. ’Tis true as gospel wot I’m a-tellin’
ye, Muster Trapper.”
Corporal Trapper stared at the unpre-
possessing wretch for a few moments, and
then a' bitter smile came into his face.
“I thank ’ee, Brass. I was on my way
to see her. I’ll tell her of her mistake.
Thank ’ee.” He moved off. There was
grim satisfaction in his voice.
“Ain’t it worf a gill o’ rum, Corp’ral?”
asked Mr. Brass disgustedly of Tom
Trapper’s retreating back.
“When I come back—a pint, if ye like,”
cried the corporal over his shoulder as he
strode on down the dusty street.
In the garden of a little cottage behind
the battery at Dawes Point, Corporal Trapper
espied from afar off the cuprous hair of
his false light o’ love gleaming in the morn-
ing sunshine. With her was a tall and
burly and sunburnt individual who appeared
to consider himself endowed w 7 ith some sort
of proprietary rights.
“Dolly,” he said coldly, “can ye spare me
a minute? I’ve something to tell ye—
’tis about y’r Uncle Bill’s plant.”
The tall man glared at him, bristling,
and stepped towards the gate.
“See hyar, ‘lobster,’ ” he said truculently,
“thishyer lady an’ me’s engaged for to be
married. Anything ye’ve got for to com-
moonicate, I guess can be commoonicated
through me. At y’r .sarvice, leatherneck.”
He opened the gate and came out on
to the grassy turf. He was a burly and
confident man, obviously of great strength.
And he was very aggressive.
, “Oh, be careful, Hiram dear,” said the
girl in a low tone, which the corporal
heard with bitterness. “He’s the best
fighter in the regiment.’’
“T] hell wi’ th’ goldarn swab,” fiercely
exclaimed the hunter of whales. “I’ll eat
th’ son of a sea-cook. He won’t come
a-commoonica,tin’ any more, after I’ve done
wi’ th’ trash. Sojers—pah! Take away
th’ musket an’ bay’net, an’ wot’s left? Guess
th’ ‘lobster’s’ come to th’ pot this time.”
A wave of savage joyfulness thrilled
through Corporal Trapper’s athletic carcase
as he surveyed his prey. He couldn’t deal
with Dolly as she deserved —but this fellow.
Not ten seconds did that battle last. Tom
Trapper was not only the best bare-knuckle
fighter in H. M. 63rd Regiment—he was
the best in the colony. A beautifully placed
left on the point of the jaw stretched Mr.
Hiram Hoover, of the New Bedford whaler
Hepzibah, in peaceful and oblivious recum-
bency on the grass. Coolly the corporal
turned to the girl in the gateway, and
saluted with precision.
“A word wi’ ye, ma’am,” he said cere-
moniously “Hif ye please. I’ll not detain ye.”
But his righteously correct attitude was
wasted. A little smile parted the girl’s
red lips. She ran across the grass to him,
and flung herself into his arms. Tear-filled,
lovely eyes shone up into his astonished
face.
“Oh, take me an’ beat me, too, Tommy!
Oh, ye dear, big man! Tli’ corner o’ th’
barrack-room’ll do me fine.”
Day Blossoms.
The days are magic flowers that bud at dawn
And wane at noon, and die at sunset
hour;
And some are odorless, while some are born
With sweetness in the deep heart of the
flower.
At morn the faery blossom is unfurled
And breaks upon a wide and wondering
world.
The wet days are dark tulips, sad and dun ;
Their drenched grey petals blur the stoop-
ing sky
And drown the laughing splendor of the sun,
Until a rainbow, like a butterfly,
Comes fluttering on elfin-painted wings
And to the wet lip of the tulip clings.
Yesterday was a yellow buttercup;
The silken bud shone like a taper bright;
Its shaken beauty ripened, tilted up,
And spilled out sunshine in a gold delight.
The wonder of this blossom lit the sky,
The heart within me wept to see it die.
To-day was a wild harebell, elfin sweet,
All tremulous and tinted softly blue;
And thrushes thronged the trees where
meadows meet,
And sang their lays of love the long hours
through.
I quaffed the breeze, and dreamed the time
away
Beneath the azure blossom of to-day.
I wonder what to-morrow’s bloom will be?
O gods of laughter, grant me one of gold!
For he who roamed is coming back to me
To keep my heart for ever in his hold.
So bid the magic seed you sow become
A lovely laughing gold chrysanthemum!
TASMANIA.
NOHMA L. DAVIS.


SUPREME IN EVERY "TEST"
ImtSaNß o^
PILLS
f
i i Ft
P
■029,
P-
z: __
=r
H
/
\
vx
4>
,«»V
1 m rv
\s.J\
- /T . »|
NS
r\
ft a
\ -'
"0 f
IT, (
3>
vv
' n t
r /t
■ffr
5\ *
m
r:.,j
II 111
PII
. '*7l*'* \§
Mi'
/x *# ?
*
'!\\ wl/$
vJV**®i-, r v\~ -
K= >
' l '
iT*
a
n
Clean Bowled bu Dr. Morse
... —i r—r“
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment
For Stiff Joints and Sprains, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago. Invaluable for athletes. If unobtainable locally will be forwarded, post paid, upon
receipt of price—2/6 per bottle. The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; or 8 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
ffifJiuLletCa.
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin”
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward, The Bulletin for 12, 6, 3 months from
for which 1 enclose £..
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
ms#
W e V'
o*
AO® $
••■ ort,
<s*s« »’
<A?j£


Make the Highways
lead to Happy Days
• • •
SXVUS
Make sure this summer, that noth-
ing about your car causes delay, annoyance,
danger, or extra expense when you set out
on a pleasure trip.
It is easy to safeguard yourself. Have your
tyres checked . . . see whether they are in
condition to stand up sturdily under summer
driving.
If you need new tyres, the finest tyre you
can buy is the Goodyear Tyre. You can see
the strength of Goodyear Tyres. You can
feel their stout toughness. Their famous
All-Weather Tread today is thicker and
tougher than ever before—ensuring extra
wear, extra puncture protection ... mileage
averages 30% greater.
And since Goodyears cost no more than any
other make, is it any wonder that "More
people ride on Goodyear Tyres than on any
other tyre".
Depend on Goodyears this summer for
happy, worry-free holiday travel!
: ms
ph.
I
i
*
BUILT WITH
CORD
Supertwist is exclusive to
Goodyear Tyres and as-
sures a carcass of superior
vitality and extra-long
wear,
ft
- )hn
y
fyy4
v-
□
A~f
□
C
/
rn\
pr\
jn
U
\
c
5\
£
%,<r 7
S.7)
r^.
S3
r
_aHS8» £
"1v" «
C 14-13-32
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
