

*o®
Experienced car owners know that
mere price is far from being the most
important factor in the purchase of
a battery. The comfortable feeling of
security that goes with the ownership of
a Willard —the dependability—-the satis-
faction —the extra miles and months of
trouble-free service—all are important
considerations. Willard prices are lower
than at any time in Willard history, yet
the Willard of to-day is a better battery
than the Willard of yesterday—and is
backed by the service of friendly dealers.
For your car, Willard gives you a
choice of several types at a wide
range in price, including types
with Thread-rubber Insulation, a
Willard development .
Supple, lithe, skimming the court like a
dancing flash of sunlight—quick on the
start- —again and again—here-—there—tire-
less dependable performance under
stress. Qualities, too, that characterise your
Willard Battery.
Willard
BATTERIES
Motor Supplies, Limited,
Brisbane, Rockhampton,
J
Westcott Hazell & Co., Limited,
Sydney and Newcastle.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
Drooklands Accessories Pty., Limited, Automobile Electric Service, Limited, Atkins (W.Ag, Limited,
Melbourne. Adelaide.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
The Bulletin
csyu\ QAhfaMjb &
Vol. 54.—N0. 2762.
Wednesday, January 18, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


IJ32 Library Catalogue is now
ready, and will be forwarded, with full
particulars, post free, on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
JLearn
Storv Writing
This Book FREE to YOllf
SEND THIS COUPON * UU *
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence Colleoe
100 Russell Street,. Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation unvr v
Booklet, explaining how to Write V tor Frec
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. ‘ as
My Name
My Address
S.B. 232
V
n
ss
SAVON CUTtCURA
ur a
Wears
to a Wafer
Pure and most economical —
lasting three times as long as
ordinary soaps — Ciificisra
Soap is ideal for daily family
use. It contains medicinal prop-
erties which are most beneficial
to the skin.
Price Is.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
THE AGE
Established 1831/.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
iou do not leave it to chance in choosing a
newspaper for your advertising campaigns You
require evidence of its stability and inquire
tuuy into it* claims for preference before
entrusting it with your sales message.
a discriminate buyer of newspaper space can
afford to overlook
“THE AGE”
allocations for
future
when contemplating
Victoria.
Make your first preference “THE AGE,” and
you will be convinced that in choosing this
medium to broadcast your sales message
throughout the State your choice has been
fully justified.
“The Age” CIRCULATES in the
homes and offices of 115,000 sub-
scribers daily, and publishes over ONE
MILLION Advertisements annually.
.
Hates on application to the principal' service
agents in all States or.
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office. 43 Hunter Street.
HMssnmm
e
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: 11. C. HINCHCLIFFE
2 HUNTER STREET.
ONE
ADVERTISEMENT
BRINGS MANY
THOUSANDS
OF POUNDS.
A large contracting
firm, Ilornibrook High-
way Ltd., advertised
their prospectus in all
Brisbane daily papers,
and called for capital.
The one advertisement
obtained magnificent
financial response
OVER 99 PER CENT.
OF WHICH WAS
THROUGH
The
Brisbane
Courier,
Member of Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
Representative
Robt. D. Fisher —85007,
74 Pitt St., Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d, weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414TJ Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., o4a Pitt Street, Sydney • or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE 3d .
It deals. with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
ha! a market-
è
for the manufacturer is presented in
a big centre. Thousands of poten-
tial customers gathered together
on a fraction of land. Whole-
sale and retail distributors
centred in accessible points.
A concentrated market for luxuries
with a surrounding trade area in-
satiable in its demands. This market is
penetrated thoroughly and successfully by
“THE TELEGRAPH”
Brisbane's Leading Home Newspaper.
The manufacturer is more
often wrong than right
when he says , “My busi-
ness is different ” Often
it is exactly that differ-
ence which is fairly
crying out for expres-
sion in print.
Is that so with
you
so
y>
LEADS THE WAY
The Red Page
HIS s
BOOKS
Fiction and the Talkies
The pervasion of the talkies is having a
curious effect on fiction. At least two-
A °* . nove ls now being written
about Americans have cinema plots. They
are either photographically realistic—genre
pictures of aspects of life in the TJ.S.A.
winch are of peculiar interest to the multi-
tude—or - they are romantically unreal.
Most of the dialogue conforms so closely
to talkie conventions that it is capable of
being lifted from the text and put into
the mouths of film-stars with few altera-
10ns. It is not designed to reveal ehar-
acter or create atmosphere so much as
to add to the thrills and hurry along the.
action, -The fii*st two novels reviewed here
are examples of a tendency which - may
• 1 ing America’s post-war renascence in
letters to a swift .end. The third repre-
sents one of the reactions against it. Most
of the younger novelists, British and
American, who are not writing with an eye
to; Hollywood are brutal pessimists. Their
principal characters are degenerates, doomed
a most from birth to ridiculous frustrations
and tragic ends.
A Californian Family
Ptty. °f G°d (The Bodley Head, 7s.
6d.) Beulah Mane Dix describes a day in
the hie oi a family near Hollywood. Joe
Vickery, its head, is desperate. He hates
his idiotic wife, and loves Monica. Monica
has just learned that she will have to be
operated on. His fault. Those damned
abortionists! What neither Monica nor
his wife knows is that he is ruined.
Bankruptcy! He could hardly liQpe to
stave it oft. They’d be yapping round P him
uke so many wolves, his creditors. Draggin°-
him down, trampling him under, tearing hiS
flesh. Lucky if it stopped at mere financial
ruin There was Harley’s suit. If Harley
should make it a criminal charge!
brother-in-law, who is engaged to
Babby, has seduced Hertha, the German
maid, and she is going to have a child.
Hob, Joes lo-year-old son, hates him.
The old man was dead, and didn’t know
nthi f waa 4 ed a son that was a big, hulking
r ■* te o Wlth ? pure heart and all the rest
ot it. port of a cross between Jack Demp-
sey and Jesus Christ. 1
The wretched boy is going blind—or thinks
he is—but his parents have not'been told
°L ] lt ' w E ? sai ™, d . hi ,s sister, is infatuated
th \\ esley Gillis, the chauffeur, a scoun-
drel. So is her mother. Such is the posi-
tion m the house in the canyon near Holly-
wood as night approaches. You have been
shown their different problems in the objec-
tive manner of “Grand Hotel,” but they
are insoluble except by a cataclysm of
nature J he miracle duly happens in true
talkie fashion. It should make a good film,
but it doesn’t make a good novel.
All the Winners
According to the blurb Magnificent
Obsession, by Lloyd C. Douglas (Allen
and Unwin, 7s. 6d.), “went into 12 impres-
sions m America in 13 months.” It has
nearly all the attributes of a best-seller,
including that greatest attraction of all in
fiction and film, a strong religious motive.
Utfier assets are the rich voung wastrel
who is reformed by the power of faith be-
comes a famous surgeon, falls in love ’(but
for various somewhat thin reasons fails to
declare himself) and wins the lady in the
end bv performing an operation which
saves her sight and her life. A perfect
Warner Baxter part. Bobby Merrick, the
hero, gets half drowned and is revived by
Hr. Hudson s lung-motor. Because the con-
trivance is being availed of to save him, the
old doctor is deprived of its use and dies.
Bobby meets Helen, the doctor’s youthful
widow, m romantic circumstances, and thev
discuss bootlegging.
l hate j t! ” slle cried Passion-
ately. Wihat a vulgar, beastly thing it’s
come to be! It never concerned me one
way or the other until lately. But now
its destroying my best friend!” Bobby was
annoyed at his sudden stab of jealousy. But
right had he to be jealous?
. 4 have £° ad reason to hate it, too,” he
rejoined bitterly; adding, with a growl, “but
I believe I’ve got it licked!”
From now on Bobby devotes his life to
brain surgery and the discovery of the
secret of Dr. Hudson’s power. The secret
is contained in a journal in cipher which
he elucidates. Briefly it, is the truth of the
Christian revelation. Comes a dav when
Bobby buys a copy of the Bible; the first
he has owned.
ti,^ h ? ra « ? ertain quaintness of phrase
that intrigued him and commanded his inter-
st - ( Ti .and on he read far into the night,
without weariness.
The little book
amazed him.
Helen and Bobby
are parted, though
they love each
other. He is wor-
ried about her
financial position, tries to investigate it
with the best of intentions and wounds the
poor girl to the soul. To his anguish she
disappears. One lacerating misunderstand-
ing follows another, and the position seems
almost hopeless when the railway accident
occurs.
It was six o clock when Helen was laid
upon the operating-table, and seven-thirty
when she was transferred again to the
wheeled bed on which she had come. During
that hour and a half Bobby Merrick, by a
supreme effort of his will, was a brain
surgeon, and Helen Hudson was a patient—
a case.
Dawn breaks at last. The patient stirs
and sighs.
And then, in that dear voice, curiously
’ C( !llo, between hysterical little
s °hs> Bobby Merrick’s patient murmured:—
Oh—Blessed God 1 —l cun see!”
W hat a talkie line! What a talkie situ-
ation !
Unrelieved Gloom
Kay Boyle’s Year Before Last (Faber
and Faber, 7s. 6d.) is claimed to be “the
full flower” of the lady’s “genius in fiction.”
One thing can anyhow be said with
certainty; nobody will make a film of it.
t hough Martin, the young Irish-American
with T.B. whom the two women of the
book fight over to his death-bed, moves
about, Europe a good deal, the story is
essentially static. Nothing really matters
m it but the continual flow of thoughtless
and often completely irrelevant and mean-
ingless chatter. ‘Martin is living with
Hannah, who is married to Dilly. They
talk at intolerable length like this, and the
absence of inverted commas makes it all
the harder to read:—-
He could not speak Eve’s name, and
Hannah said it for him.
Why did Eve go away? she said.
V\ o liked each other, said Hannah.
Yes, you were nice as Dilly’s wife, said
Martin. Or you might do as mine. I’m
not so sure about that. But she doesn’t
like you this way. I can’t wait, I told her.
Maybe 111 be dead to-morrow or the day
after, I told her. And off she went with this
idea.
Did she call me a lot of pretty names?
said Hannah.
It doesn’t matter if she did, he said.
On and on these inane conversations go
while Martin and Hannah make love, and
bolt from Provence and about the Cote
DAzur with creditors in their wake, and
he is reconciled to Eve, and quarrels with
her, and has heemorrhages, till on page 317
the haemorrhage arrives which presages the
end of his futile existence.
n/i? J kl ,10t i% 0U8 ; h ’ bnt a bright thread
of blood ran suddenly from his mouth, went
writhing like a living thing over the white of
Ins shirt. Hannah saw his head go back go
back like a flower breaking from the stalk,
and she flew crying into the hallway.
B°yle is a great phrase-maker.
Writhing hke a living thing”; “like a
flower breaking from the stalk”—she dashes
oft vivid little pictures of the sort -by the
bundled. But her affectations are exas-
perating her characters are worthless, and.
unlike the wasters of writers like Aldoils
Huxley, Evelyn Waugh, Edward Shanks
and the rest, they are without humor.
RED PAGE.
D. H. Lawrence’s Letters
“Lawrence was always and inescapably
an artist/' says Aldous Huxley in his
introduction to The Letters of D. H. Law-
rence (Heinemann; Robertson and Mul-
lens; 355.). The statement brings us no
turther than the point where we have to
define what is an artist, and there is a
multitude of definitions. If art, is a way
ol hie then Lawrence certainly fulfilled the
definition. No man ever faced his des-
.more unflinchingly. Lawrence's own
definition was “Art for my sake.” He set
out to save his own soui, and his letters
reveal that, despite ill-health and the usual
grinding poverty of the intransigeant he
succeeded. Craving all his life to live in
harmony with his fellow-creatures, his own
individual conception of what that harmonv
should be forced him into greater and
greater isolation. A rat in a trap gnaws
and gnaws, and there is the effect of gnaw-
mg m Lawrence’s complete absorption in
the one aim of bringing his internal har-
mony into relation with the larger harmony
,n /, enei “ al ; The astounding thing is
that he did at least preserve his internal
b ai \ C K' f *? ut h , e learnt by bit ter experi-
ence that the only people who find it com-
ortable to live in any stable society which
(lied Page continued on page 5 )


I
B
«ans 3
♦
ANDIII
fl
%
HALF-YEARLY
GENUINE
"TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING’—The Foundation of Confidence. “THE SENIOR STORE.’
.. .<■*
'.'Vi
Naews#
I
A Page of Convincing Values
To-day when a man considers a purchase he reckons
the VALUE first. He must account for every penny.
But PRICE alone is no criterion; QUALITY and
SERVICE must be included in desired proportions. Not
one item on this page fails in these specifications. Buy
in confidence.
115/- to 1261-
suits to MEASURE
7*6
Because a special purchase was made of these high-grade suitings,
they are offering much below their usual prices. All smart and
wanted patterns are included in the offer—Blues, Greys, Browns,
Fawns, etc. These suitings are all Wool and are cut and made in
our own workrooms by expert cutters. Call, write or
’phone for special patterns. Prices, £5/15/- to £6/6/- 79/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price
Others are priced at: 79/6 96/6 1 15/- 135/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Prices—
-72/6 87/6 104/6 124/6
150/-
137/6
Patterns Post Free-
Write for them!
TROUSERS also at Savings!
All-Wool “Hordura” Tweed Trousers. Side
/\n-wooi rioraura iweea i rousers. oiae or cross 10/1 1
pockets. Price, 13/11. Sale Price, per pair xCtf LL
7/11
8/6
Neat striped Cotton Tweeds, side or cross pockets.
Price, pair, 8/11. Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair . .
Men’s Khaki Drill Trousers. Best British Drill. Price, 9/6.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pair
Essential Needs of Every Man Sale Priced!
17/6, 19/6 and 21/-
PULLOVERS
all to
go at
76
Incredible! All Pure Wool Cash-
mere-finish Fancy Jacquard Pull-
overs for Men! Also available in
heavier knits. A comprehensive
range of colorings. These Pullovers
are a guaranteed make of knitted
wear. All sizes.
Prices 17/6, 19/6 and 21/-
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price
7/6
29/6 PULLOVERS,
All Pure Wool Pullovers! <m rx I
Diamond and check effects. I 11/Q
Included are Pawn, Brown, * v w
Blue and Gref tonings. Sizes range
from 34in. to 42in. chest. Prices, 25/-
and 29/6.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, ea., 10/6
3/6 HALF HOSE,
Men’s Fancy Half Hose, f /*
Pure Silk and Art. Silk I/ I I
Mixture with All-Wool tops, */ *
toes and heels. In a range of dis-
tinctive colorings. Sizes 10 to 111
inches. Price, 3/6.
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, pr., 1/11
(Only prompt Mail Orders can be
executed.)
4 3 HALF HOSE,
Men’s Fancy Half Hose. O/1 1
AIP pure wool in new mUJ X X
two-tone diamond de-
signs. Fawn, Brown, Blue and Grey
shades are included. Sizes, 1 Oin. to
1 1 £in. Price 4/3
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price, per pair 2/11
3 6 SINGLETS AT
Men’s Art. Silk Athletic
Singlets. Blue, Apricot or
White. Sizes, 34in. to
42in. chest. Price, each .
2/6
.. 3/6
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price, each 2/6
9/6 OXFORD PYJAMAS
Genuinely Reduced to
611
Pyjama Suits, made in striped Oxford. A
strong and durable quality. Price . . 9/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, suit . . 6/11
Striped British Twill. Price 13/6
Sale Price 12/-
Compare Quality for Quality, and Price for Price!
Solid Savings
in Men’s Sturdy
FOOTWEAR
m.
136
Special Boots, made ill stout
Box hide, with standard screwed
and sewn soles. Guaranteed all
solid leather. In Black or Tan.
n • 1 i / A
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price, per pair
13/6
“Hordura” Officers' Boots, without
toecaps. In Tan Calf and Black
Box Calf. Genuine welted soles.
Full and half sizes. Price per
pair 26/6^
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price, per pair ...
22/6
16/11 WORK BOOTS
15/11
“ Hordura ” Officers
Work Boots. Made
in Tan or Black.
Extra stout standard screwed and
sewn soles. All sizes from 5 to 10.
Price * 6 / j 1
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price 15/11
45/- RIDING BOOTS
Tan Calf Riding Knee
Boots. Welted soles.
Full and half sizes. Also
in lace, with two buckles and strap
at top. Price • 45/-
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price, per pair • 35/-
35/-
( Men’s Wear—Ground Floor, George
Street. Freight paid to all seaports
in the Commonwealth and railway
stations in N.S.W. )
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED,
’Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C. G.P.O,


YOU’LL STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
SILVER
EDGED
MARK REGIS TER ED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Insist on “RAY BEST OS”—with the Silver
Edge. Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed
Driving.
e
Representative: J. ARNOLD, G.P.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
è
No. 128
FARMER
AND
SETTLER
SADDLE.
85/-
BARE.
GOOD VALUE for the MONEY
And with a dressing of our special
leather oil it looks worth a pound more.
OUR No. 128
“FARMER & SETTLER”
is a handy saddle for farm work. It has
a comfortable seat and pads set up in
the skirt. The panel has wide facings
at back and leather points down the sides.
If you prefer low pads order No. 129 at
the same price.
PRICE, £4/5/- Bare.
Leathers, 5/6; Girth, 3/6; Irons, 3/9 extra.
Complete, 97/6.
For Cash with Order we will send freight
free to any N.S.W. railway station. If you
like it oiled we will do it free of charge—
it will not make it messy and you can ride
in it straight away.
Write for our Saddlery Catalogue No. 329, showing Station Saddles from
102/6, Cowboy Saddles from £ll/10/-, Station Stockwhips from 19/6,
Station Bridles from 12/-, Working Leggings 9/6, Riding Leggings from 10/6.
You will say good-bye to sore backs if you use our No. 300 Hair Saddlecloth,
easy to wash, lasts for years. 21/- each. Post, 1/6 N.S.W.
WALTHER & STEVENSON,
Ltd,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
* See you are in our shop when you call.
TBUE BLUE AND BRITISH
• • •
e
11:!!!!:!:!^
u
11
♦
The lion is British —
through and through
— He’s ”plus a little
something,” too !
He has a reputation for
smooth, silent, purpose-
ful power—the British
lion. That’s the Empire
Spirit. And for smooth,
silent, powerful per-
formance from your car
there’s only one true
blue British spirit . . .
PLUS WHAT ?
PUIS A LITTLE SOMETHING
OTHERS HAVENTGOT
“C.O.R” Plus is a fine quality
motor spirit plus a special soluble
compound of lead which eliminates
"pinking” and meets the needs of
today’s higher-compression engines.
For your protection it is coloured
BLUE by the addition of a minute
quantity of perfectly harmless aniline
dye which cannot separate from the
petrol.
The Commonwealth Oil Befineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government andAnglo-Persian Oil Co Ltd )
Poolman Street. Port Melbourne. 5.C.7. ’Phone: M 3261. 117 Pitt, Street SvHne,,
Agents for South Australia and Queensland: :: Dalgety & Ltd
WONDER BARGAINS IN BOYS’ WEAR
AT
EPOCHS
Throughout the Mammoth Store all
stocks (excepting proprietary lines
and Tailoring) have been
reduced at least 10 /o
This is only a basis, of course; there
are great stocks clearing even as
'o* *• HALF PRICE
-S'
MjSf
Youths’ 47/6
Sports Suits
<B>
This will give you an idea from the Boys’
Sections. Two-piece Flannel Sports Suits for
Youths, in smart shades of Fawn and Grey.
Trousers have wide bottoms, finished with
belt loops and side straps. Sizes, 12 to 2-|.
Boys’ 25/-
Tweed Suits
IQ II
Remarkable value in Boys’ Thornproof Tweed
Suits in Fawn and Brown mixtures; also
fancy Tweeds in Grey and Fawn shades and
Dark Grey Tweeds. Plain knee knickers.
Sizes, 4 to 12.
Boys’ 5/11 Knickers,
These will brave the wear of
all boyish activity! Boys’
Knickers in Navy Cheviot or
Dark Grey Tweeds, strongly
lined, and in sizes 3 to 12.
Plain knees.
3'B
Youths* Sac Suits
Youths’ excellent-quality Thornproof Tweed
Sac Suits, in Fawn and Brown speckled
designs. Sizes for youths ! 4 to 18 years.
Usually 50/-. SALE PRICE . . 37/9
Also Youths’ Tweed Trousers, with side
pockets, belt loops and cuff bottoms. Dark
Grey shade, or in Navy Cheviot Serge. Sizes
u Jri y 2 ?o/6. SALE PRICE .. 8/2
More Big Bargains
Boys' 8/6 smart Felt Hats,
in shades of Slate, Steel and
Grey. Plain and Fancy bands,
Boys’ 7/6 effectively-striped
Poplin Golf Shirts, with soft
collar to match
5/11
5/9
Boys’ 4/1 1 and 5/11 Tweed
Hats, in smart Dark Grey ft /II
shade, with fancy bands . . . JL j | |
Boys’ and Youths’ 8/1 1 light-
weight Flannelette Pyjamas,
in smart stripes
5/9
Soys’ 10/6 lightweight Tweed
Sports Coats, in sizes 6 to
15
7/11
Boys’ 3/11 three-quarter Golf
Hose, in Black shade only,
with neat fancy tops. Fit 6 to
13 shoes
1/11
Empire Racquet Co.’s 32/6
“Hastings” Tennis Racquet,
strung with high-grade gut . .
20/-
W. A. G. Horne and Co.’s
"Champion Driver” Cricket
Bat, black rubber grip handle,
15/6
Big Book of Sale Bargains—Free!
Wonder Savings in Men’s and Boys’ Wear, Sport, Radio, Paint,
Tools, Garden Implements, etc.
We Pay
Freight.
Murdochs JM Sydney) Fi
— ~ . jy. I
Kindly write
ett e r s to
Desk “R.”
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. •
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.Q. * ’
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 95
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through f he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
/•
5?
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural,
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” is in its 91st year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania,
Full information, copies, advertising rates “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougari,
50 Hunter Street,
Sydney.


Mr Can’t
ss^i.
f/S
3*o
Mr Can
»
*
(Z
m
*
i&M&jMM 'i
When Mr Can’t got up this
morning he wasn’t feeling
too well. ‘Not enough exer-
cise’ he told himself (as usual).
But when he does take exer-
cise—he doesn’t really like it!
And how puffed he gets ! The
real trouble with Mr Can’t
is that his whole system is
poisoned—by congested food-
ways. And not even exercise
will keep you fit if you don’t
keep clean inside !
Whack —slam —bang! How
—on the other hand that
Mr Can does go it I Mind
you, he’s not quite Davis Cup
—but he does enjoy himself.
The man is fit, of course
fit as only a man can be when
he’s clean inside. First thing
every morning Mr Can takes
hisEno. Result —clean blood,
clear eye, and a light and
springy step. No poisons in
Mr Can! And what about
you ?
A sparkling glass of Eno every morning makes all the
difference between half'health and health . Cleansing
and clearing your foodways of yesterday’s waste E no
keeps your bloodstream free from poisons and relieves
the cause of heaviness, headaches, depression »•. Take
Eno regularly—first thing every morning .
Au. 18
Enos Fruit Salt’
c (she words Sno and "‘SFruit Salt” are registered trade marks
Sales <J%gents: ißritish ZHarold «7. SUtchie Co. £td., Sydney, cN.S.^
is under a strong Government are the accep-
tors, the easygoers, the cowlike ones, the
gregarious folk who love to be in clusters,
who are acutely miserable left to their own
resources; in short, the herd, the com-
munity singers. He was utterly unable to
join in that chorus. The artist who tootles
his own lyre walks alone.
All his writing was an attempt at trans-
valuation of values. He attacked all those
things that made these rich people appear
important, and he glorified all those things,
the spiritual things, which distinguish one
naked man, stripped of all his social pre-
tensions, from another. Sex is the final ex-
pression of this nakedness, and the analysis
of sex was almost- Lawrence’s sole pre-
occupation. Most of his books were auto-
biographical. That they weren’t merely
rationalisations of his own desires is the
highest tribute to his consequence as an
artist. In “Lady Chatterley’s Lover” an
aristocratic woman abandons her wealthy
and distinguished husband for a game-
keeper. In “Aaron’s Rod” a miner is pat-
ronised by a set of intellectuals, subjugates
them by his native strength of character, and
allows one of them to beg him for his
favors. Here is revenge, as sweet as may be.
But if the subjective side of his nature had
mastered Lawrence, he would have had no
more significance as an artist than Marie
Corelli. He would have been merely another
self-pitier, an envier, of which there are
articulate and inarticulate millions.
Before the War he incurred social obloquy
by running away with another man’s wife,
the daughter of a German baron, as the
gamekeeper ran away with Lady Chatter-
ley. During the War he suffered persecu-
tion by marrying her. After the War he
alienated intellectuals and publishers by re-
fusing to conform to the literary conven-
tions and became the most hated man in
England, a symbol for filth, decadence and
obscenity. His books were seized and an
exhibition of his paintings closed, and he
escaped imprisonment by staying on the
Continent. He flung the obscenity accusa-
tion back in his accusers’ faces with interest.
Of “Lady Chatterley’s Lover,” the unexpur-
gated edition of which is still banned in
Australia, he wrote :
It’s what the world would call very improper.
But you know it’s not really improper. ... To me
it is beautiful and tender and frail as the naked
self is, and I shrink very much even from having
it typed.
Incidentally, the expurgated edition is now
on sale in Australia, and has been made suit-
ably obscene by the liberal use of asterisks.
The live dog has revenged itself on the dead
lion.
The letters show Lawrence as a great
fighter, but a sunny man, not at all the
satanic individual of popular bogeyism, cer-
tainly not a decadent but enormously vital.
His faith shines out of Lawrence so strongly
that the people around him, eminent in
letters as some of them are, seem to be
ghosts footling around in the shadows. Ill-
health and abject poverty made no dif-
ference to his spirit. His extraordinary
sensitiveness is almost painful to watch, but
persecution did not poison the springs of
his being. His choice of subject-matter
was narrow, and this gives an effect of
monotony to his books which is reflected
in his letters; but this also gave that in-
tense concentration and passion which are
the chief characteristics of Lawrence.
His brief visit to Australia, which pro-
duced “Kangaroo” and “The Boy in the
Bush,” is represented by only three letters.
He did not like this country:
If you want to know what it is to 'feel the
“correct” social world fizzle to nothing, you should
come to Australia. It is a weird place. In the
established sense, it is socially nil. Happy-go-lucky,
don’t-you-bother, we’re-in-Australia. But also there
seems to be no inside life of any sort; just a long
lapse and drift. A rather fascinating indifference,
a physical indifference to what we call soul or spirit.
It’s really a weird show. The country has an
extraordinary, hoary, weird attraction. As you get
used to it, it seems so old, as if it. had missed
all this Semite—Egyptian—Indo—European vast era
of history, and was coal age, the age of great
ferns and mosses. It hasn’t got a consciousness—
just none—too far 1 back. A strange effect it has on
one. Often I hate it like poison, then again it
fascinates me, and the spell of its indifference gets
me. I can’t quite explain it; as if one resolved
back almost to the plant kingdom, before souls,
spirits and minds were grown at all; only quite
a live, energetic body with a weird face.
Aldous Huxley speaks of the splendid
curve of his letters sinking at last to dark-
ness. I don’t see them that way. His last
novel, “Lady Chatterley’s Lover,” was also
his finest. In it he penetrated nearest to
the absolute reality he was seeking. What
more does an artist want?
M. G. SKIPPER.
Australian Hymns Wanted
From the Rev. P. L. Black, Sydney-
street, Concord (N.S.W.)
The Methodist Church of Australia and
New Zealand intends bringing out a supple-
ment to the new Methodist Hymnal which
has been compiled in England to mark the
union of the Methodist Churches there. The
committee appointed by the General Con-
ference of the Church is desirous of includ-
ing in the supplement hymns by Australian
writers if suitable ones can be found. A
number of good Australian hymns have
already gone before the committee, but there
may be others quite as good, or better, which
have so far escaped the notice of committee-
men. The conditions laid down by the com-
mittee regarding all hymns submitted are;
(1) That they should express, or at least
not be contrary to, the generally accepted
Christian faith; (2) that they should
express a really devotional spirit, and be
suitable for congregational use; (3) that
they should be at least tolerably good poetry
and not mere jingle; and (4) that they
should be written in metres to which tunes,
preferably standard tunes, can be readily
set. Hymns suitable for special occasions,
such as Foundation Day, Anzac Day,
Empire Day, Drought-time, Harvest-time
and Election-time, will be particularly wel-
come provided they fulfil the conditions
above mentioned.
Communications should be made to Mr.
Black.
A Satchel of Books
Chez James, bv Rose Henniker Heaton
and Duncan Swans (Elkin Mathews and
Marrot; 7s. 6d. net), appears to be a modern
equivalent of the books of etiquette popular
with our grandparents. It purports to be
the wisdom of James, an English gentleman,
who allows himself to be flippant on such
topics as love, but is very serious about
food. “Pheasant dunmorag,” for instance,
appears to be a genuine recipe, and the added
reflection, “Don’t say - ‘Roast pheasant is
good enough for me, thank you,’ ” is a sound
maxim. James recommends as a winter
drink “A tablespoonful of blackcurrant jelly
dissolved in a tumbler of hot water, thin
slice of lemon floating on top,” and adds
the disconcerting comment, “Eating and
drinking kill many dreary hours, and eventu-
ally kill many dreary people.”
The humor of The Best Story Ever, by J.
Storer Clouston (Blackwood; 7s. 6d.),
wears a little thin after the first hundred
pages or so, though the novel is cast in a
new and, ingenious form, and Mr. Mandell
Essington, hovering near the portals of the
asylum as usual, is the principal figure. Mr.
Storer Clouston was the originator of some
of Wodehouse’s most popular figures. He
first thought of the half-witted but charming
and likeable male aristocrats and their pre-
posterous butlers; but their lunacies take
on a richer and more varied texture in Wode-
house’s hands. Mr. Mandell Essington in
this book undertakes to write a novel on
the proceeds of which his delightful niece
may be able to marry her father’s footman,
who is heir to a peerage. The events
happen while he is reading his novel in
instalments to the house-party. It isn’t Mr.
Storer Clouston at his best, but then his
worst ?s a deal funnier than most comic
writers’ best.
No Phantoms Here, by James Lansdale
Hodson (Faber and Faber; 7s. 6d.), is a
gallery of portraits of men and women who
are in the public eye in England at the
moment. Many have an Australian news-
value : Hubert Wilkins, for example; and
Tom Clarke, who was associate-editor of the
Melbourne “Herald” and is now editor
of the London “News-Chronicle” ; and Wal-
ter Lindrum, and A. I J . Herbert (here with
the last press delegation) and Mrs. Bram-
well Booth. The sketches are in gossipy-
vein and don’t pretend to go deeply into the
subjects’ characters, but they have the charm
of being by a man who knows —and in some
cases knows intimately—all the people he
has written about.
Prince, the hero of T. Bowyer Campbell’s
WMte Nigger (Collins; 7s. Gd.), didn’t
look like a negro, yet he had a black mother.
The novel tells how the poorest of town-
dwelling negroes live in the U.S.A., and
dwells on the .scorn felt by the whites for
the blacks and by both whites and blacks for
unfortunates like Prince. It weakens at the
finish owing to the author’s determination
to have a happy ending, but it’s a good story
for all that.
Life and Love, by Paul Nami (The Strat-
ford Co., Boston ; one dollar). A collection
of maxims designed to guide the reader along
the road to social and marital peace and
happiness. Not all of them are new.
4 woman’s use of profanity costs her the genuine
respect of her hearers.
Loyalty, to any- cause, is worthy of praise.
A gentleman reveals to no one his intimacies
with a woman.
Still, most of the sayings are so unimpeach-
ably sound that they boar repetition and the
get-up of the volume is admirable.
And a Little Verse
PRAYER APPROPRIATE TO AN
INFERIORITY COMPLEX.
God, who lias fashioned me
Of more indifferent clay—
The handiwork, maybe,
Of a vext day,
When, with creation spent,
In weariness He wrought,
And to my making lent
A lesser thought—
His heart will understand
What time His earthward glance
Glimpses within my hand
A wavering lance;
Yet lest He, too, forget,
For those wayfarers’
Whose fate with mine has met,
This plea I make:
I pray my questing feet,
That are less firm than most,
Win not to their conceit
At others’ cost;
That none whose hands have wrought
Deftly the craft they know,
By mine unskilled be brought
To overthrow.
And may my eyes beware
The perilous places through,
Lest, for my lack of care,
Another rue;
And the false ways I go,
Keep, keep them hidden, lest
One follow to his woe,
In idle quest.
And let me tread my doom
Unmarked amid the host,
For their contentment whom
I love the most;
Forth-faring, in the shield
And sword of Pride arrayed,
Lest in their sight I yield
And am betrayed.
N.S.W.
BEVERLY BERRY.
Answers to Correspondents.
~ ~ , , , ~ j ip taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
No not \ ce (f ce P l °f f a hostlle tfJ liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and address must appear on the Ma. no iiaoiuiy
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Ajax: The Bulletin didn’t say so; what
you quote is a contributor’s opinion. Put it as
interestingly as he does, and you will have' just
the same chance of getting into print as he has....
F.0.N.: Boil it down to one-third. It can be
done easily.... R.P.: Much obliged. It’s enough ■
to take some of the curl out of our tail....
N.D.: Painful F.T.L.: Old plot badly presented.
W.G.M.K.: No interest C.H.S.: For the most
part, well done, but it ends so unpleasantly....
J.C.H.: Story of a failure is itself a failure....
J.8.J.: It takes a Wells to get that class of yarn
across. .. .F.G-F.: Could see the end coming..
H.F.D.: Well, all we can hope is that Somerset
Maugham found the two-column account of a murder
and the other “police news” in The Bulletin
interesting. For The B.’s own part, it thinks Mr.
Maugham’s cookery recipes quite fascinating. . . .Viv.
C.: Humor in it; but too protracted.... Titus:
Kindergarten standard... .C.E.G.: Lawson and water.
. ...W.H.S.: Original, doubtless, but it isn’t a
poem... .L.R.: No, they’re not “meritable.” They’re
not even readable- •. .P.M.: “An Aussie’s Lament”
could hardly be more lamentable. .. .B.B.: We’re
tired of ships that “cleave the waters blue”....
The Mopoke: There’s more melody in the kooka-
burra’s note. •• .Nunc: Tolerable satire, but there’s
another side to the question... .A. 8.: Crude is the
mot juste .... Perce New Cuss: A long-sleever of
Hippocrene is what you want. . . .C. 8.: “Ballad of
the Wreckers” too far off our beat. Try a ballad
about dryblowers... .E.H.: Nothing in it, not even
a lilt. . . .E.G.T.P.: Good wishes reciprocated; verse
repelled. .. .P.S.: What atrocious spelling !. . . K.R.F.:
You rhyme with facility; try to be less slapdash. ...
P.L.8.: Essentially wooden... .J.H.S.: It’s been done
ever so much better, and only a few weeks ago at
that. .. . J.H.: The last word in banality....
J.A.M.: Remarks on “the smug conservatism of half-
educated criticism” duly noted.... .T.J.C. :
I am touched to the heart
If our Don must depart
For lack of loyal support.
After that, inspiration seems to have deserted you
and you couldn’t find a rhyme worth twopence....
Cripes: No merit, but a faint glimmer of promise.
. ... H.: It nearly swept us off our feet: —
This great land of ours should be unendingly pro-
ducing
And by ev’ry honorable means inducing
Men of goodwill and keen vision to come and settle
here
Not for mere pleasure-seeking, but to pioneer.
Unfortunately we have crowded into cities
And lost thereby Nature’s wonderful amenities.
But Australia is yet new—a country to be made —
And the last word about it haa not yet been said.
.. . .R.A.H.: Otherwise. .. .A.0.N.: Ring 0ff....
R.8.P.: Terrible Ned is hacking his way home.
C. J.A.: Send it to a travel magazine,...
A.J.8.: Found heaps of faults with the fault-finder.
J.D.: There is a dreadful sameness about these
cattle-duffing yarns. Yours is just one of the
multitude... .A.E.: Not a bit convincing. .. .A.R.D.:
A woeful plot Zif: Far too long A.L.D.:
Would go better as a straightout article E.K.:
You’re late in the day with that radio story
A.F : Failed to stand the test F.D.: Wasn’t
worth sending all that distance. .. V.R.: Lacks
polish G.A.W.: Rubbish L.P.C.: Stick to one
story at a time... .C.H.: Unsuitable. ... Kopp : NOi
much demand in view of The B.’s own “Said
Before” page.... S.A.: Too long; and most of it
has been said again and again... .8.5.: “Hands”
fail to grip A.H.K.: Trite reflections in very
rickety verse... .E. 8.8.: Did you ever see anything
remotely like that in The Bulletin ?... .L.R.8.:
Two lines linger pleasingly on the palate:
He baits another hook with zest anew
And lands a yellowbelly and some jew.
...Dom B : Metrically correct, but the finish is
feeble L,W.: No sap in it J*V.: Might do fora
school paper S.S. (S.A.) : A mob of old friends—
“canopy of sky” and “gurgling rills” and “downy
nests”. . . .J.C.8.E.: In more spacious days you’d
certainly be printed. One put aside for another
l eading Q.T.: Shows a mind sensitive to beauty.
“Riverside” is best; but it is slight.... Impo: Great
poverty of rhymes. .. .M.R.P.: Very small demand
for translations K.E.P.: Only hard work, much
reading and a seeing eye will make you a poetess.
But don’t despair S.Q.G.: Can’t see any promise
in it Doreen G.: That sort of thing must sound
ecstatic. You merely make it sound staccato.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.A.: Cartoon has too many labels. .. .P.T.: Ana-
tomical details all wrong... .W.G.: “There may be
some slight faults.” Slight! P.W.P.: Want more
than pretty faces and feeble puns... .N.M.: Merely
.a collection of oddments... .j.R.R.: Lines would be
almost invisible when the process-engraver had
done his job. .. .A.T.W.: Picture is overcrowded
F. 0.: No merit in it C.C.: The ’prentice hand is
too much in evidence.... L.F.: Skits on lunatics not
wanted... .M.S.: Half the dud artists in Australia
seem to be concentrating on the Board of Control.
... .A.Y.: Game is so little played that few would see
the point... .H.N.D.: You can’t make the dialogue
between persons in bowlers funny merely by calling
one Moses and the other Cohen. .. .C.11.W.:
Amateurish. .. .V. 8.: Illustration does not fit letter-
press. .. .G.P.: That lumpy style gave us a pain. .. .
K.H.: Regard it as an indiscretion of your youth.
. ...T.L.D.: Immature J lessons may help consider-
ably... .T.S.: Have met the Maori in more mirthful
moods. .. . J.A.: Unpolished sketch of a tame-looking
couple exchanging dull remarks. .. .8.R.5.: Your time
has not yet come... .E.D.: Its fate was as foreseen.
. ...H.J.J.: Well enough drawn, but you’ll have to
think up brighter jests. .. .D.G.C.: Drunk’s retort is
older than the Pyramids. .. .L.S.T.: The signature
is the best part of it... .H.A.8.: Get some life into
your lines... .F.T.N.: Only middling. . . .P.S.: Dread-
fully dull .R.G.: Idea .is fair, but illustration
lacks punch.... .J.M.H.: Apart from graceful sweep
of dog’s tail, there isn’t much in it. S.W.: Old
gag....R.K.: Calls for a firmer hand... . A.W.E.:
With more experience you should be hearing us say
“Come in”.... J.J.W.: Basket swallowed old lady
fleeing from croc G. 8.: Drop that outlandish
style. .. .W.D.K.: Has no discoverable merit....
F.W.: Crammed with artistic blunders. .. .S.S.: Your
horse looks like no other horse on earth.


e
è
JC
Pit
k
i ■ •
if i
■-•''' -V -
I &
r '• - ,* •■
•;-' V *
, . I, j /
’ I'^Ri
M ■
■tSc?'
jr* • 1% K m "«
> I \ Mm :
ms;
W '• ;
r
’ ■ ■ % i\
# # m. 1 ,, P :: ii#l;^lP ?: a—1 - \
- ’ \ •■ JL- ''W W&mjP
\ r.ffe-' : ,. , ii
/Sr .•V..-.
W . Ji
' +-wPl
■ dfc, *' ..SM
mm.
# • .. - 3
£
\
4
i
m
W
:$J
iiill:;'ll
V<v
..mL
■ JV
III
: ::
H
■
iftgpMg »',
m- ' J
H
■ 1
I
I "f
— fc.;\
■ ■ '
mmm
«K.
1
• . X
,
rz
mm
' <pF
■
tx ■- •■■ - % lg#c^'
' c,-
.
it
iM
w
• Ml
X
JSBkk
YV vX
X • -
l\
a


The Bulletin
Vol. 54.—N0. 2762.
January 18, 1933.
COME INSIDE!
(With acknowledgments to Phil May.)
THE PATIENT ON THE WALL: “What are those fellows there for?”
UNCLE SAM: “They owe me money and can’t pay me.”
THE PATIENT: “So you keep them where they can’t earn anything to pay you with. Come inside."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
ictoria : 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, U Panama
Street, Wellington,
London: 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J,s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
o months, 15s. 6d. j 3 months 3 Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for J,oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
WAR.
The greatest curse the world knows is war.
But we are told the world has always had
it and that it is useless to expect it will
ever be banished. So long as its inevitability
is believed in, so long will it be possible--
and more than possible. It seems to The
Bulletin that the aim of those who desire
peace should therefore be to show that war
is not inevitable; that it occurs only be-
cause it is made to occur.
Buckle, in his “History of Civilisation,”
written during the progress of the Crimean
campaign, found great comfort in the reflec-
tion that the peace of 40 years had been
broken, not by a quarrel between two
civilised nations, but by the encroachments
of the uncivilised Russians on the still more
uncivilised Turks —by a rupture between
the two most barbarous monarchies in
Europe.” In that struggle he thus found
proof rather than disproof for his theory
that as civilisation advances an equipoise
is established, and military ardor is balanced
by motives which none but a civilised people
can feel.” Enormous changes had already
taken place in the relation of the people
to war. Every citizen had formerly been a
soldier: in ancient Greece philosophers like
Socrates and Plato; eminent orators like
Demosthenes and Pericles; great statesmen,
such as Solon and Themistocles; the poets,
the historians—all were soldiers, many of
them very distinguished commanders. It
was the same in Anglo-Saxon England:
“there was no distinction,” as one put it,
“between the soldier and the citizen.”
These men did not hate war: they took it
for granted and they glorified it because
military renown was the only path to
eminence and to more than eminence *
according to another, “a war with France
was almost the only method by which an
English gentleman could become rich.” The
custom of paying a ransom for prisoners
survived down to the middle of the
seventeenth century.
And it was very easy to have a war with
France—very easy for almost any two
countries to have a war. For more than a
thousand years there were two great under-
lying causes of conflict—dynastic ambitions
and religious enthusiasms. Each of these
made use of the other and of other circum-
stances and conditions as well—racial hatred,
for instance, and thirst for applause or
riches. Dynastic ambitions are gone: they
were nearly dead before the Great War,
and that ended them; in that world-
upheaval no less than nine sovereigns felt
their thrones crumble beneath them. Those
that remain are no more than parts of the
machinery of responsible government. Reli-
gious enthusiasms, which produced the
Mohammedan conquests, the Crusades and
the Protestant-Catholic wars of Europe, are
to-day simply incredible as causes of war;
and they are the most incredible in the
countries strongest militarily. Along with
those chief, almost exclusive, primary causes
have gone to a very great extent the
secondary causes. It is true that it is
still possible, as we saw 18 years ago,
to inflame the passions of a nation. But it was
not possible to do it beforehand, except as be-
tween perhaps France and Germany: so little
as a month before the Great War began
it is certain that Germany had as many
friends in Australia and in Britain as France
had. Even with that period fresh in the
memory, it is possible still to say that there
is no real racial hatred left among Caucasian
nations (again with the possible exception
of France and Germany): what looked like
hatred during the war-years was hysteria,
systematically and malignantly produced'
As for glory, that of the war-lord is very
uncertain and at the best short-lived; and
the last man to make money out of a war
is the combatant.
Yet those very movements which have
abolished the old causes of war have pro-
duced possible new ones. These are almost
wholly economic. Germany’s aim in pre-
paring for the Great War was commercial
supremacy. It is indeed almost impossible
to conceive of a modern war, especially
between Caucasians, begun for any other
reason. Religious enthusiasms, dynastic
ambitions, hopes of honors and loot—they
all sound ridiculous in this connection. If
wars are not fought for commercial reasons,
with one possible exception—arising out of
Communism—they cannot be fought at all.
But commerce does not fight battles with
guns. It is Governments that go to war.
Hence, before any bloodshed can be started,
the trader must capture the Government.
Under Communism things are a little dif-
ferent. As the American Oscar Newfang
points out in his “Capitalism and Com-
munism”—a curious attempt to bring about
a reconciliation between the two—Com-
munism means Government monopoly of
all foreign trade and commerce, so that “the
economic friction that is bound to arise in
international trade is at once friction be-
tween Governments, and so becomes auto-
matically and instantly political friction;
and between political friction and war there
is but one step.” On the other hand, “under
capitalism the economic friction that arises
in international trade is friction between
traders, manufacturers or financiers of the
various nations, in which friction the
Governments are not immediately in-
volved.” Under our individualist system it
is thus necessary for the trader to move the
Government. So we find that, apart from
the menace of Communism, there remains
only one cause of war in the world, and it
is purely material.
That brings the whole business down to a
very low plane. In this light, modern war
becomes merely part of the scheme of a
group of people for making more money. Of
course it is wrapped up more attractively than
that. They represent themselves as patriots
seeking their country’s good. But even this
does not lift the business from its low
material plane. When the wrappings are
torn away the thing is there in its stark ugli-
ness—modern war is no more and no less
than glorified robbery under arms. And if wal-
l's inevitable, then robbery under arms is
inevitable also. This, however, does not
do away with the need for defence, any
more than the fact that robbery under arms
is unnecessary does away with the need for
a police force. But, just as the individual
does not arm himself against the highway-
naan, except in very rare circumstances, so
it should not be necessary for the individual
nation to arm itself against the free-
booter. The Russian experiment is of great
value to the world in many respects and
not the least in this. In the Union of
Socialist Soviet Republics there are no less
than seven republics, differing in race,
language and history, spread over one-sixth
of the world’s land surface. The individual
republics have no army; the Red Army is
for the service of all; and part of its purpose
is to maintain peace between all member
States and to compel the submission of all
disputes between them to the proper juris-
diction. The world may not have reached
the point at which this is feasible for all the
nations; but if Communist nations adopt the
practice, then the Individualist nations will
put upon themselves a heavy handicap if
they make no attempt to similarly outlaw
war among themselves.
STILL MORE DOUGLAS CREDIT.
This is from E. L. Holmes, the author of
“Australia’s Real Wealth,” the little ■ book
which Montague Grover lately quoted:—
At a Douglas meeting recently, one
opponent attempted to disprove the A -j- B
theorem on a tin-of-jam basis. Now you
attempt the same thing per medium of the
wool on a sheep. You state that, when sold,
“every farthing is purchasing-power,” but 1
am afraid you will not get one producer of
wool in Australia to admit it. I can assure
you that I have duly provided for the pur-
chasing-power out of our wool production on
a liberal scale; but as the whole of the
pastoral production was worth about
£80,000,000, and taking every farthing as
purchasing-power, Australia would be still
over £60,000,000 short. In the good old days
this would be provided for in loan money
for public works, all of which would repre-
sent purchasing-power, and so help to equate.
Regarding: the absurd suggestion that
£139,000,000 had been added for producers’
profit, I would refer you to page 621 of the
“Commonwealth Year Book,” 1931, dealing
with total manufactures, wherein the fol-
lowing details are given
MANUFACTURES.
Materials used £220,945,187
Power, fuel and light 13,602,754
Salaries and wages .. .. .. 84,717,033
All other expenses, interest and profit 71,’647,’399
Gross value of manufactures .. ..£390,912,373
Now the Government Statist, who does not
work on the A -j- B theorem yet, provides,
m Ins fairness, for the B charges by deduct-
ing materials used and light, fuel and power
(these being part of other industries which
have had their own A plus B charges),
and reduces the net value to £156,364,432,
out of which known purchasing-power is
represented by wages and salaries amounting
to £84,717,033.
. Tbe bridging of production and consump-
tion by any means whatever must be of
value to the community provided that due
provision is made to prevent inflation or de-
flation, neither of which is possible when
we have equation. The only way out of
our trouble is by means of a national divi-
dend, and to prove that this can be paid
I have shown that the national assets of
Australia, Zess national liabilities, amount
to £3,000,000,000, or over 60 p.c. of the
amount of our national wealth of
£4,800,000,000. A national dividend of
(say) 1.0 p.c. would thus provide the follow-
ing
£1 per week to all citizens .. ..£338,000,000
Government and Parliamentary expen-
. . di * ure 58,000,000
Interest 55,000,000
Just price regulator 29.000,000
£480,000,000
This dividend would cancel all taxation re-
quirements, and give our people adequate
food, clothing and shelter.
And a few weary words in reply
So we go over and over the same old
ground. But this gentleman is not quite
honest wfith himself. He says that the Gov-
ernment Statist “deducts materials used and
light, fuel and power, and reduces the net
value [of manufactures] to £156,364,432, out
of which known purchasing-power is repre-
sented by wages and salaries amounting to
£84,717,033.’’ The Government Statist does
not deduct anything at all. He puts “value
of materials used” and “salaries and wages”
in precisely the same category. These are
his words: “As the total value of the out-
put for Australia for 1929-30 was estimated
at £390,912,373, there remained, after pay-
ment of £220,945,187, the value of materials
used, of £84,717,033 for salaries and wages,
£13,602,754 for fuel, the sum of
£71,647,399 to provide for all other expendi-
ture and profits.” It’s a pretty poor cause
whose advocates have .to twist the plain
words of. their authorities so shamelessly.
The. misrepresentation is important, be-
causefit goes to the very root of the matter-
Ihe Douglas Credit disciples say that only
wages, salaries and dividends are purchas-
ing-power ; that the money spent on
materials, fuel, light, etc., is pot purchasing-
power ; and, therefore, ip order to make
good the deficiency between purchasing-
power and cost price, “social credits” must
be issued. Under this system, if wages,
salaries and dividends spent in producing
a pair of boots amounted to ss. and the
sale price (which includes material, light,
power, etc.) was 155., then the bootmaker
would sell the goods to the customer for
ss. and collect the other 10s. from the com-
munity bank in the shape of notes—the so-
called social credits. Now, it will be ad-
mitted that these notes or social credits
have not hitherto been issued. The world
has had to get along without them. There-
fore the notes will represent a great volume
of entirely new purchasing-power. The
result will be .exactly the same as if banks
on a given day insisted on issuing to every-
body 30 £1 notes for every £lO cheque. It
is not necessary to argue about the effect
of that. Prices would at once soar.
But. Mr. Holmes says, neither inflation
nor deflation is possible “when we have
equation.” One of the curses of the “new
economics” —and of the old economics, for
that matter—is that it will not talk plain
English. “When we have equation”—what
does the jargon mean? Powell, a better-
known advocate, puts it more plainly:—
The system proposed by Major Douglas would
automatically adjust itself to any inflation or defla-
tion that might occur in the money market. For
if there were inflation, so that the value of money
depreciated— i.e., so that it would buy less than
formerly—there would be a corresponding accumula-
tion of goods which could! not be sold (because they
could not be bought) ; the next application of the
formula would then compensate for this, exactly and
accurately, so readjusting prices that the surplus
would be automatically absorbed.
In other words, inflation under the Douglas
system is possible; and if it occurs —in
other words, if the number of notes handed
out does not suffice to buy certain required
goods—then the remedy is to hand out
more. notes. That is, to pile inflation on
inflation. Which inevitably means a crash.
Mr. Holmes says that in the old' days
the chronic shortage of purchasing-power
“would be provided for in loan money for
public works, all of which would represent
purchasing-power, and so help to equate.”
The fact, of course, is that not one farthing
of our loans came here as money: all came
as goods. Mr. Holmes can’t have it both
ways. Either the value of goods (including
materials, power and everything else) is
purchasing-power or it is not. If it is pur-
chasing-power then the A + B theorem on
which the Douglas system is based goes over-
board ; if it is not purchasing-power, then
Mr. Holmes’s explanation of how the alleged
deficiency was formerly made good goes
overboard.
One fact completely demolishes the
assumption on which the A + B theorem
and hence the whole, system is based. We
are told that there is not enough purchas-
ing-power to take up the goods produced.
If there is not, there never has been. So
the world has been for centuries producing
vast quantities 0 f goods which could not
possibly be sold. Where are they? The
accumulation must be colossal by this time.
Where was it five years ago? Where was it
at the time of the war, when there was a
scarcity of almost everything? The accumu-
lation simply didn’t exist; and that one
fact knocks the bottom right out of the
Douglas theory.
There is space to say only a word or two
about the “national dividend”—which is
a sort of grand spree, paid for by cashing
our great natural resources and other vague
assets and dividing up the total in notes. It
is proposed to pay interest, among other
thing’s, with these notes. The Bulletin
can imagine what Uncle Sam would say if
he was asked to accept payment of his little
lot in these notes. And The Bulletin can
imagine also what the average trader would
say if he was offered a handful of notes of
which six millions, had been issued that
morning and of which another six millions
would be issued next Monday—and every
following Monday!
PERSIA AND MANCHURIA.
There is no essential difference between
Britain’s position with regard to Persia and
what Japan’s position with regard to Man-
churia was before the murder of a Japanese
officer started a definite explosion. Persia
has the battleground between Russia
and England for the past two generations,
just as Manchuria has been a battleground
between Japan and Russia. In 1907 the
Czar and the British Government signed
a convention dividing Persia into two
spheres of influence, just as similar conven-
tions were signed by the Czar and the
Mikado over the Chinese province. As
with the latter, there were other Govern-
ments anxious to be of assistance in cut-
ting up the melon, notably Germany, which
was fobbed off by Russia with a promise
that it would not be opposed if it wanted
to give the blessings of railway transport
to the Turks at Bagdad. The Czar him-
self was building railways towards Tibet.
Afghanistan and Persia, and would have
liked to get down to the Persian Gulf, but
the arrival of Lord Curzon in a British
warship, with subsidiary vessels, apprised
the Little Father that an ice-free port con-
tiguous to India was as yet beyond the
scope even of the most ardent Russian
chauvinist.
Although regarded as a mere pawn in the
high game of international chess, Persia
was full of human beings, just like Man-
churia. While it was being moved about
the diplomatic board, its people were de-
veloping acute political ferment. This
effervesced in the form of a Nationalist
party, mainly composed of chiefs and land-
owners, which forced a Constitution on the
Shah based on British models, much as the
Manchurians forced a republic on the Son
of Heaven after the American pattern.
This so shocked the autocrat of All the
Russias that he lent the Shah a brigade
of Cossacks to maintain peace and pros-
perity. Nevertheless, the Nationalists gained
ground and seized the capital, deposing the
Shah, who fled to the Russian legation, and
was eventually assisted to escape to Russia
by British troops as well as Russian.
Under a new Shah the Persian National-
ists proceeded to put their house in order.
But as they were unable to agree on
domestic details, Mr. Morgan Shuster, an
American, was made Treasurer-General,
with almost the powers of an Oriental despot.
At about this point the Czar posted the
old Shah back with boxes of ammunition
labelled “Mineral waters.” He was, how-
ever, defeated, and Mr. Shuster confiscated
some of his family’s property. At this the
Czar was more shocked than ever, and his
demand for Mr. Shuster’s recall was
seconded by the British Government. A
party amenable to both the principal Powers
which had concerned themselves with the
welfare of Persia then ruled the country
from 1911 to 1914, with the assistance of
Cossacks in the Russian zone and Swedish
police in the British. The analogies with
Manchuria are obvious.
In the Great War Persia was used as a
cockpit by Turkish, Russian and British
troops, while Manchuria was comparatively
quiet; but its turn was to come later.
Armageddon was a great time for secret
treaties, and during the epic struggle the
Czar and Britain, by private arrangement,
practically disposed of the last remnant of
Persian independence. The Bolsheviks re-
pudiated Russia’s part in the agreement
after the 1917 Revolution, largely because
they were too busy at home to bother about
the Czar’s heritage; so the Armistice, found
British troops in sole possession. (In the
same way the Bolsheviks generously gave
the Chinese Eastern Railway in Manchuria
back to China, having previously had it
taken from them.) A treaty was signed be-
tween Britain and Persia making the latter
virtually into a British protectorate; but
the Persian Parliamentary corpse showed
unexpected signs of life and refused to
sign the document. Meanwhile the Bolshe-
viks had begun to return in much the same
uniforms as the late Czar’s agents wore, and
Persian Cossacks seized the Government.
Only a first-class military campaign would
have restored British ascendancy; and the
British taxpayer was war-weary and short of
pocket-money. In its difficulties Persia
turned again to the United States, as the
Power furthest away; but in the mean-
time the British Government had become
supreme in the oil interests, which was what
all the fuss was really about.
The situation to-day is that Britain has
expended energy, enterprise and money in
developing an industry which is or might
be of considerable benefit to Persia, but
which is certainly essential to the efficiency
of the British Navy, just as Japan has
expended yen and energy in building rail-
ways in Manchuria which are of benefit
to the Manchurians and are also essential
to the security of Japan because of the
soya-bean crop. The trouble is that Russia
also regards the exploitation of these coun-
tries as essential to its security, and the
rivalry between the pairs, not to mention
the rivalries between other countries, is
likely to deal the deathblow to civilisation,
if war is resorted to.
Communists claim that if a country is
organised on socialistic lines it will lack
the incentive for aggression. This is partly
disproved by the recent history of Persia.
The Czar and the British Government
could compromise over Persia because they
both had fingers in the same pies in other
parts of the world, and there was scope for
bargaining. They could even co-operate in
exploiting the same country. Moreover,
they both had the same horror of nation-
alist movements in Asiatic countries and
the same preference for conservative Gov-
ernments. On the other hand, nationalist
movements are manna to the Soviet. It
was Soviet support which put Chinese
nationalism in the saddle, drove it to
Peking, caused the Hongkong strike and the
Shanghai troubles. It has ringed India and
Persia round with Soviet republics, and has
built a string of electrified industries along
the frontiers which may some day compete
in Asiatic markets with the sea-borne goods
of Britain. There is nothing here that
makes for peaceful international relations.
FENG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Fourteen Shillings in the £.
From a Brisbane correspondent who signs
himself “Accuracy”:—
"Arthur J. Morris sets out (B. 4/l/’33)
certain taxation figures relating to property
income in Queensland. No doubt taxation
in this State has reached the danger mark ;
but the figures quoted by Mr. Morris do not
show the correct position. A taxpayer is
entitled to deduct State relief tax paid
during the year before being assessed for
State income tax, and both these taxes are
allowed as a deduction before Federal tax
is assessed. Mr. Morris bases his figures
on net taxable income; but from the fore-
going it is obviously not possible to have
the same amount of net taxable income for
both Federal and State purposes.
“The tax payable on (1) a regular net
income of £2500 and (2) on another of
£lO,OOO from property will in future there-
fore be:—
Net income .. .. .. .. .. £2500
Tax—State . . . ." .. . . £326
Federal 390
Unemployment Relief . . .. 125
B4l
Remaining to Taxpayer .. .. .. £1659
Net income . ■• .. .. .. .. £lO,OOO
Tax —-State . . . . . . . . £3327
Federal . . . . . . . . 2249
Unemployment Relief . . .. 500
6,076
Remaining to Taxpayer .. .. .. £3,924
This shows that the last £7500 in a £lO,OOO
income is appropriated to the extent of just
under 70 p.c., and not 93 p.c. as stated by
Mr. Morris.”
An exaction of 70 p.c. is not quite as
bad as one of 93 p.c.; but it still is 14s. in
the £. How is this sort of thing going to
work out?
Progress is continually calling for new
appliances, new plant, new railways; money
to prospect for and open up new mines, to
build new factories, new tramcars and rail-
way rolling stock, new wireless stations,
new X-ray apparatus. The men who work
at building these things have to be paid;
and the money can come from only one
place—out of the savings of the past. We
can borrow, of course, as we have borrowed
to do most things in Australia; but some-
body has had to save the money. No
matter what form of government we live
under, capital must be got unless progress
is to cease; and, generally speaking, the rate
of progress is governed by the amount
of capital available. If there is no money,
then we have to put up with old plant
which ought to be scrapped, and our com-
petitors, if we have any, will get ahead
of us. The men who set up Soviet rule in
Russia know all about this: their two Five-
year Plans are merely a stupendous effort
to provide a backward country with modern
plant by driving millions to work their
hardest and paying al! hands as little as pos-
sible, putting by every farthing thus saved
into the national capital fund.
Under our individualist system probably
nine-tenths of the money for these essential
purposes consists of the earnings of prop-
erty; the other tenth is saved out of
salaries and wages. Suppose a man had
an income from property of £lO,OOO a year,
what would he do with it? He would prob-
ably have an income also from personal
exertion; and the chances are that that
would meet most of his living expenses. If
he is in business, nine times out of ten he
puts his profits back into the business. If
his own business does not call for expan-
sion, he puts the money on fixed deposit
with a bank, which lends it to somebody
who does need more capital.
Under Communism, then, or under a
system which was moving deliberately and
intelligently towards Communism, the
money would be taken and used as State
capital—for productive purposes: for pro-
viding plant, etc. Under pure capitalism,
it would be put to exactly the same
uses, while remaining private property. But
under our hybrid system Governments
collar 14s. in the £ and use it for all manner
of things except such as are productive.
The money is simply taken and sterilised;
and thereby we are prejudicing our chances
of an early recovery. Other countries are
preparing for the turn of the tide. In
Europe and in America railways are being
reconditioned, factory plants rebuilt. In
Australia—in Queensland at any rate —we
are taking 14s. in the £ of the money
which ought to be available for those pur-
poses, and using it to pay public servants’
salaries, to maintain veiy many thousands
on a dole and to provide for “social ser-
vices” far beyond our means. A young,
undeveloped country has more hope under
Communism than under such a system.
*
The Wool Business.
Nothing came out of the cumbersome con-
ference which the Federal Government
convened last week to consider the difficul-
ties of the wool industry. An assembly of
50 or 60 men may be all right for discussing
proposed legislation, though a dozen would
probably do the job better; and it has a
value for registering the opinions of various
groups of people. But for digging a way
out of business difficulties such a mob is
impossible. Its only hope is to choose
from among its number three or four men to
do the real work: afterwards, if the big
assembly must come into the picture, it can
register its opinion of the results.
What is called the wool problem is
actually ten thousand small, or compara-
tively small, problems. Every bank has a.
bundle of them; and every one ' of the
bundle is a little different from the others.
In a general way the question every bank
and other mortgagee is trying to answer
in each case is “How can we best get out of
this mess?” The property isn’t at present
worth what has been advanced on it,
probably to buy and stock it. It is not
earning interest on the debt. Is it best to
write off part of the debt or hang on in the
hope of a recovery in values? That is a
question which no bank is likely to allow
anybody else to answer for it. Every case
has its own circumstances; and the answer
must be governed accordingly. Very often
the personal equation is most important.
True, the interests of the State must come
into the consideration, too. Those interests
seem to urge that as a general policy the
debts should be written down to a point at
which the mortgagor will feel that he has
still a valuable interest in the property—
to a point, moreover, which will make it
possible for him to keep the security in
good condition. It is beyond all question
that at the present time holdings are being
very badly neglected over a great part of
Australia; and that is true of the wheat
as of the wool districts. Large areas are
being ruined by noxious weeds, while in
other parts the rabbit is overrunning the
country* through failure to maintain fences
and dig out burrows; and tanks are being
allowed to silt up. No bank, no matter what
its reserves, likes to cut off great lumps of its
assets; there is a natural inclination to hang
on in the hope of a recovery. But the
interests of the State appear to be urging
the banks and other mortgagees to face
the situation, make the best of a bad busi-
ness, and clean the thing up.
The quality of our marketing methods
opens up a larger and, more difficult question.
Summing up the results of the conference,
the president of the Graziers’ Association
declared that “for the fourth year in suc-
cession Australia is selling its wool at a
loss.” This can mean only one of two
things: either our costs are extravagant or
we are not getting a fair thing for our
product. No doubt some of our costs are
extravagant: every State has spent millions
of borrowed money on unpayable railway
lines, many of them constructed mainly for
political purposes—in plainer words, to
buy votes for one or other party—and
this swindle has to be paid for. Public
services have been overmanned and are
still being added to: only the other day
the Stevens Government in N. S. Wales
went outside the railway and tramway
services to find a manager to run a few
’buses. Both railway charges and taxation
are therefore very heavy. But when all
that has been admitted, something seems
very wrong when the world’s chief grower
of fine wool—and a grower who admit-
tedly can produce wool at very low
costs in some respects—must sell his clip
for four years in succession at a loss.
If a manufacturer who had something very
like a monopoly of certain very important
lines went to his shareholders and told them
that for four years running they had been
selling their output at a loss, there would
certainly be a very searching inquiry, unless
the shareholders had first been doped. Aus-
tralia and Maoriland between them have
136 million sheep. South Africa, the Argen-
tine and the U.S.A. can only muster 126
between them. And the Australian sheep
are of infinitely better average quality. In
view of those figures and the other facts
there is room for a most searching inquiry
into the whole business of marketing.
♦
Stevens Delights the “Sports.”
The A.J.C. committee has seen fit to regis-
ter the four Sydney companies engaged in
the pony-racing business, and thinly dis-
guised as clubs. There were already three
registered companies making a business
of horse-racing, and before very long the
club which races for the sport alone may
find itself regretting that there is so little
amateurism in Sydney racing, and that it
has so many conflicting commercial interests
to consider. Nor has it any reason to felici-
tate itself on the quality of most of the
animals and some of the persons taken
over. No small proportion of the latter are
“battlers,” whose fortunes rise and fall
according to their success in finding punters
who will back their neddies when they are
“ready to go off”; and the neddies are
mostly runts. This was indicated at the
first meeting held at Rosebery under the
new regime, when the two principal races
were won by horses which, though rated
third-class on A.J.C. tracks, made their
opponents among the newly-registered
performers look like hacks.
But registration is a great thing for the
four pony “clubs.” Pony-racing, once so
popular as to become a serious social Pjpb"
lem, had been going down for years. The
descent during the last twelvemonth has
been such that people who rightly complain
that Sydney is oversupplied with racecourses
and ill-furnished with grounds on which
vouth may indulge its natural bent for
healthy field sports began to entertain hopes
that at least two pony tracks might be
bought for the service of young people at a
reasonable price. This prospect has now
faded. Sydney will continue to have five
times as many racecourses as it needs, and.
assured of bigger and better-class fields and
a. great increase in attendances, the pony
companies will enter upon a new lease of
life.
The Stevens Government ought to have
had something to say before registration
was concluded. Since it can grant or with-
hold betting facilities, which are all-
important, its sanction should have been
necessary, but apparently it wasn’t even
asked for; anyway, the Government’s atti-
tude has been one of silent approval. Yet
an arrangement which gives a great fillip
to proprietary racing should surely have
been questioned by a Government which
(two or three Ministers excepted) is sup-
posed to have no love for betting or for
those who batten on it. In Melbourne
definite limits have been set to proprietary
racing. The thing, in fact, is in process of
extinction, with great advantage to the
public and the sport. The Stevens Govern-
ment had a first-class opportunity of setting
the same healthy movement going in Syd-
ney. It should have insisted on being con-
sulted about the registration of the pony
companies, and should have made its con-
sent conditional on the wiping out of one
concern (compensation to be furnished by
the business) and the gradual conversion of
the others into real (that is, non-
proprietary) clubs. In this matter, as in
the matter of the tin-hare syndicates which
are still plying their noxious trade, with
great profit to ruffians exposed in the Royal
Commission’s report, the Stevens Govern-
ment has been guilty of lamentable
weakness.
4
Land-grant Railways.
Notice of company registration:
North Australia Development Co., Ltd., capital
£10,500 divided into 10,000 preference shares of
£1 each and 10,000 ordinary scares of Is. each;
to purchase from J. B. Cramsie, G. A. Hobler and
K. Williams the full benefit of all negotiations carried
on by them with the Commonwealth Government for
the construction of a railway between Darwin and
Bourke, etc.
There is no longer any serious objection to
a land-grant railway, as such. Two things
the North urgently needs: linking up with
the South and settlement of territory whose
neglect constitutes a standing menace to
the Commonwealth. A co. which will supply
a railway and at the same time beneficially
occupy country is therefore one of the things
that can be sure of a welcome, provided
the terms on which it offers to operate are
satisfactory. These terms may differ enor-
mously; and it is not possible to intelli-
gently discuss the scheme until we know
what we are asked to give in return for the
freehold of this great area of country.
Already, as we have seen, newspapers and
private citizens have committed themselves
to the support of a project of whose essen-
tials they can know nothing. This is not
playing fair: at the very outset we ought
to be told what type of land-grant railway
is proposed. Of these there are, broadly,
three:—
(1) The State may pay for the railway with
land-grants, the constructing co. handing over the
line, with or without equipment, and taking the
freehold in full payment.
02) The railway may be constructed by a co.
which will continue to own the line, operating it
under an agreed-upon schedule of passenger and
freight charges and a minimum timetable, the
land-grants being in effect a subsidy.
(2) The line may be built by a co. which will
raise the money for the purpose, the State making
itself responsible for* both principal and interest, the
land-grant being in effect payment merely for
securing or underwriting the loan.
Obviously there is a vast difference between
these three, with their possible minor varia-
tions. To a proposal of either the first or
second pattern Australia would give a will-
ing and attentive ear; one of the third pat-
tern would be entirely unattractive. The
nearest we ever got to it was the Norton
Griffiths scheme; and we were very glad to
buy ourselves out of that.
' ♦
Cricket as a Profession.
Test-match players who are not profes-
sional journalists are forbidden to write for
the papers about the matches in which they
are engaged; and in the discussion of the
embargo a great deal of heat has been
generated. We have only ourselves to thank
for it. No young man of ordinary means
can afford to play cricket as the Test Match
player must play it unless he can turn it into
money somehow. Generally he finds little
difficulty in doing this; among others, there
are newspapers which will pay him very well
because he is a Test cricketer. Yet though
for all practical purposes this is profes-
sionalism in cricket, we hold fast to the old
convention that all these young men are
lily-white amateurs; and cricket boards of
control and the like stand behind the silly
little pretence.
There are two alternatives. The first is
to make such changes that a match will
cease to be a serial running over a week.
Few countries nowadays can afford to play
a game which dawdles over so much time as
that; Australia certainly can’t. It ceases to
be a game and becomes a business. The
other alternative is to drop the pretence
that young men can afford to go into this
business—in which they will cease to have
much value after half a dozen years—and
not be paid for it. .
Of the two alternatives the former is
infinitely the better; it may even save the
game from being ranked presently as a
national misfortune.
A Queer Custom of the Wool Trade.
That queer custom of the trade, the draft
allowance, was one of the problems befoie
the Wool Conference; and, after discussion,
it was decided to leave it in the hands of
the Woolgrowers’ Council and the
National Council of Wool-selling Brokers.
Cables were read from overseas buyers pro-
testing against any change.
The position is that practically ever since
there was a wool-trade the buyer has paid
for only 1111 b. in the hundredweight. The
system seems to have grown up in days
when weighing machines were not very
trustworthy, and when, in the goodness of
his big heart, the Australian woolgrower
said that he was doing pretty well and
would rather give away lib. in every
hundredweight than that the woolbuyer
should lose his job or get into trouble for
delivering short-weight to his principals.
To-day none of the old reasons for the
practice have any validity whatever.
Weighing machines are accurate beyond all
question, and the grower, who once could
afford to be generous, is no longer in a posi-
tion to give away an ounce.
But, the buyers and some others say, he
is not asked to give away anything. The
buyer, it is protested, adds to his offer an
amount sufficient to cover the draft: that
is to say, if he bids lOd. he means that, but
for the draft, he would offer lOd. less
.008903 of lOd. This may be so. Uncon-
sciously, and as a matter of old habit, he
may make the allowance in valuing the
wool; and apparently the fear is that, if the
draft’is abolished, he will pay this fraction
too much. But surely that can be got over
very easily: he can value as he has been
in the habit of doing, and deduct approxi-
mately .009 d. from the valuation. And why
shouldn’t he do it? The grower has had
to do it for very many years in order to
find out exactly what his wool has brought.
The system is unscientific and unsatisfac-
tory; and it becomes more unsatisfactory
the more its abolition is resisted. How can
the woolgrower believe that the buyer gets
no advantage out of it when he fights for
it so determinedly?
♦
The Picture Houses.
Some Australian picture-film exhibitors have
been fighting the American distributors’
insistence upon “block-booking”; and such
as have done so deserve the practical
encouragement of the public. Indeed, it is
a moot question whether an Australian pic-
ture-show proprietor who is prepared to ex-
hibit whatever is sent him by foreign
distributors is a fit subject to hold a picture-
house license.
The whole business of the cinema is a
world’s tragedy; what should have been
from the outset one of the greatest forces
for the education and elevation of mankind
fell into the hands of the poorest type of
side-show money-makers, who prostituted it
to their pui’pose, and in doing so have
done the world far more harm than good.
The character of the films and the type
of men who produced them naturally had
its effect also upon the exhibitors. Gradu-
ally, very gradually, improvement has been
made, mainly as the business of production
has ceased to be a monopoly of American-
Jew millionaires; and these people’s insist-
ence upon block-booking is a struggle—let
us hope a last desperate struggle—to main-
tain that hold upon the business. It is
good to see that there are some show-
men in Australia with enough regard for
their patrons and their country to insist
upon having a say in what is exhibited; and
they will be wise Australians who will
separate the sheep from the goats.
♦
Cancer Treatment.
There is an interesting little story behind
two announcements that have had wide pub-
licity. First, the Director of Cancer Re-
search at Sydney University imported that
75 p.c. of sufferers from skin cancer who
submitted to early treatment were now
curable; from Queensland came next a
message that, on the local expei’ience, the
cures could be safely set at 90 p.c. Behind
these messages stand the activities of the
Roberts Clinic Proprietary, Ltd., of Bris-
bane. Mr. Roberts is a layman who claims
to have a cancer cure; and so persuasive is
he that the Government is arranging for
a test at the public expense. The Govern-
ment will put in a matron and staff of
nurses at the Wattlebrae Hospital; and a
special medical committee, appointed by the
Government, is to observe the proceedings.
Six malignant cases are to be selected, three
external and three internal; and Mr.
Roberts is to have the right to reject
any which he thinks too far advanced.
It will be magnificent if Mr. Roberts or
anybody else can produce a complete cure
for this cruel disease; but what must be
carefully guarded against is the false impres-
sion that there is no cure known to the
professional man. Great progress has in
fact been lately made in this direction;
so far as external cancer especially is con-
cerned, thousands are successfully treated
every year in the medical clinics of every
country. As for internal cancers, whether they
can be successfully treated or not depends
almost entirely upon the stage which they
have reached. This, however, can be said
quite definitely: if any well-equipped clinic
were permitted to reject cases which had
gone too far for treatment, it could almost
definitely promise success with the rest.
“In every cancer,” says Dr. Chapman, the
Sydney Director of Cancer Research “there
is a stage at which it may be curable.
The danger, then, of such a test as that
arranged for is that it may give the entirely
false idea that Mr. Roberts is claiming to
do something which has baffled medical
science; and because this test is in progress,
sufferers may delay to seek medical
assistance. It is a grave danger, and the
Government ought to take special measures
to guard against it


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778.02S 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E C. 3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
„ . __ Sc??!? 8 „°t General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Fine Diamonds
£20
Fine Diamonds
£25
Fine Diamonds
£28
SYDNEY;
13 HUNTER STREET
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
Diamond ENGAGEMENT
RINGS
Sapphire & Diamonds
£2O
Fine Diamonds
£5O
The Diamonds used in the Kings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest quality
Blue White Gems the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout with pure
Platinum Settings, these Rings repre-,
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
A Catalogue of Rings, Jewellery,
Silverplate, Silver and Wedding Pres-
ents sent post free on request.
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET
POLITICAL
POINTS
On the advice of the Melbourne specialist
whom he consulted, Harry Gullett has re-
signed from the Lyons Government, though
he will remain member for Henty. By
taking things easy for a time he may become
again the ardent and vigorous Gullett who
went to Ottawa; in that case, he will not
need to inquire whether Lyons and Latham
(or Bruce, if Lyons has gone to London
and Latham to the High Court) have for-
gotten him. He has the satisfaction of
knowing that in one field his work at
Ottawa has already borne fruit. Australian
exporters of beef and mutton are getting
higher prices on the British market, and—
as sour old Vestey admits—prices will go
higher still.
Gullett has been succeeded as Minister of
Customs by Tom White, the member for
Balaclava. White’s war service is well
known ; before the war and since he has been
a devoted worker for national defence. A
manufacturer, and a successful one, he mar-
ried a daughter of Alfred Deakin, and cher-
ishes her father’s memory. Such a man is
not likely to let Australian industry down.
It is improbable that the new Customs
Minister will get a congratulatory message
from De Valera. Speaking in the Reps., he
pointedly regretted that the Government of
the Irish Free State was no party to the
Ottawa agreement, adding, “It is dominated
by a brooding fanatic who lives on the
hatreds of the past.” “He is not Irish'!”
cried an ,interjector. “He is the Spanish
onion in the Irish stew,” said White.
At the end of the first six months of 1932-
33 the Stevens Government had spent
£2,633,000 more than it had received. It
budgeted for a deficit of £4,350,000, and
with most of the year’s income-tax revenue
to come in, it now hopes to do a bit better.
Of course, even four millions is a saddening
deficit for a State to have in a twelvemonth;
but Lang left an accumulated deficiency of
£17,506,800, of which he was responsible
for £13,252,300 in one dreadful year.
The Lang executive’s methods of scotch-
ing rebellion are peculiar, but they seem
to be effective. The Glebe branch revolted,
and its leaders were promptly expelled.
Then a meeting of the branch was called.
Malcontents going to the hall found it closed
and picketed until, in the words of a com-
rade who told, “it seemed like a haunted
“What’s happened to these comrades?”
“Aw, nothin’ to speak of. Expelled — that’s
all.”
castle.” Inside were “a number of notori-
ous bashers” and “over 100 members of
other branches. Not more than 70 genuine
Glebe members were present.” The expul-
sions were mentioned but not explained, and
the meeting “confirmed” them by 171 to 80.
Some people still have an idea that what
this country is short of is money—that if
the printing presses were set to work and
a few more million pound notes were printed
all would be well. To-day’s “Wild Cat”
overhaul of the E., S. and A. Bank throws
some light on that. For instance:—
Most of the money that came in during the year
went into liquids [notes, etc.]. When the books
closed advances had dropped to 84.3 p.c. of the
deposits compared with 95.3 p.c. two years earlier.
It is a strong position, but it means low earning
power until profitable employment can be found
for more of the funds.
So it isn’t money we are short of: it is
confidence. And it isn’t only Bolshevism
that destroys confidence. People can't see
any sense in risking capital when Govern-
ments which profess to hate Bolshevism
collar as much as 14s. in the £ of the
earnings.
One of those Labor papers which admire
De Valera so much and stridently assert
that Lyons is “robbing the old people” has
incautiously revealed how old-age pensioners
are treated in De Valera’s country, “under
an Act which came into force on September
30”
Pensions are payable from the age of 70 to. every
person who fulfils certain conditions relating to
residence and means. The pension rate is fixed at
10/- per week. The amount is decreased according
to the volume of annual income from other sources.
Where the income is 15s. per week and over, no
pension is paid.
Yet the Free State public debt (all con-
tracted since 1922) is a mere 30 millions
or so. Australia, which owes about 40 times
as much, pays a pension rate 50 p.c. higher
than the income which is a total disquali-
fication in De Valera’s country, and pays
it to women at 60, to men at 65. Even
now an elderly couple with a cottage, the
man 65 (or 60 if he is incapacitated) and
the woman 60, can draw £1 15s. a week from
the Government which is “robbing” them.
“The Australian cinema showman is revolting
against the system which compels him to hire a
year’s supply of U.S. films, good, bad and ghastly,
and pay for those which, for various reasons, he
cannot exhibit. This has been made illegal in
Britain."
“And I thought he was one of my pet
worms!”
Frank Fahy, Speaker (Ceann Comhairle)
of Dail Eireann, was the only member of
the last Dail to be returned without a con-
test. As Speaker he was assured of re-elec-
tion ; Free State law provides for it. Many
an Australian Speaker has wished he were
in the same boat.
There is no robbery of old-age pensioners
in Australia, and there can be no such thing.
But there is robbery, under legal forms, of
policy-holders in life-assurance concerns and
of the widows and orphans of those who die.
Taxes paid by the A.M.P. in 1931 (£599,872)
were nearly 20 p.c. higher than the expenses
of management (£500,826). With the reduc-
tion of mortgage interest to 5i p.c., the
society “has to pay £1 10s. in taxation out
of each £5 10s. received, leaving it 4 p.c.
with which to pay office expenses, cover the
rate assumed in its valuation of liabilities
and obtain a return on its investment”—the
unimpeachable authority is Samuel Hordern,
the chairman. When bidding for votes three
years ago Scullin promised to abolish the
Federal tax on life-assurance societies. He
multiplied it instead.
A boycott is stupid in almost any cir-
cumstances, and thrice- stupid when it is
bound to fail. There was never a chance
of stopping the sale of Fiji bananas once
they were landed, but some very foolish
people thought it could be done by adopting
“trade-union methods,” as they are called.
Unfortunately they contrived to drag “the
Committee of Direction of Fruit Market-
ing,” set up by the Queensland Government,
into the silly business; the Queensland
grower was asked to sign a printed docu-
ment instructing this committee “to divert
all my consignments from any agent or
merchant who, in the opinion of the com-
mittee, has handled Fiji bananas, either
directly or indirectly.” Fiji wasn’t hurt
by these tactics, but Queensland would have
been if they had triumphed.
Though numerous other veterans of the
Queensland public service have been pushed
out these last few months, Police Commis-
sioner Ryan, who will reach the retiring age
in May, is to be kept on. Home Secretary
Hanlon explains that Mr. Ryan is a capable
officer (this is true, but it was equally true
of others who have had to go), adding
naively that he himself knows nothing about
police conditions, and needs an expert by
him until he has picked up the ropes. The
gentleman didn’t improve matters by point-
ing out that the retention of the Commis-
sioner would postpone the necessity for pay-
ing him a pension which the Treasury could
ill afford. This consideration didn’t weigh
with the Government in the cases of the
taxing master, the sheriff, the public curator,
the clerk of Parliaments and the chief clerk
of the Supreme Court, among others.
By all accounts the Westralian Nat.-
Cocky Government is in for a bad time at
the general election. It has offended many
of the farmers who were its chief sup-
porters ; on the other hand, the shrewd
Collier has pleased them mightily by saying
he would give them a lot more help than
they are to get from Lyons, and dare the
Loan Council to dishonor the cheques. In
1911, when trouble was plainly on the way,
Newton Moore, who gave Jimmy Mitchell
his first portfolio, appointed himself Agent-
General and left the late Frank Wilson to
suffer the shock of rout in the constitu-
encies. Mitchell has manfully resisted the
temptation to follow Moore’s example. It
is expected that he will offer another term
in the London office to his old friend Cole-
batch, who is not happy in the Senate.
N.S.W. Auditor-General Spence, reviewing
the family-endowment transactions for 1931-
32, reports that “receipts, which amounted
to £930,300, failed to meet claims and
expenses by £1,068,000,” and that “the accu-
mulated deficiency on this fund at June 30
stands at £2,498,970.” Before they were
pushed out the Langsters increased the
special tax, which Stevens continued, the
result being that £1,635,400 was extracted
from employers for six months of 1932-33,
as against £287,100 in the corresponding
period of 1931-32. At the same time, relief-
tax revenue went up £385,100, to £2,944,800,
although the basic wage has been lowered
and the tax is no longer collected from
relief workers. The Government cites this
as a proof that unemployment has been re-
duced, and no doubt it has been a little.
But while people are taxed at the rate of
3i millions a year for giving work there can
be no great improvement in the position.
It looks as if South Africa is to have
something like a national party, composed
of Britons and Boers bred in the Botha
tradition who follow Smuts, and of the
Dutch led by Tielmann Roos. Smuts says
he is willing to put aside the question of
leadership, and Roos has taken up the same
attitude.
As a rule, N.S.W. people with no interest
in public-service politics turn hastily from
the reports of teachers’ conferences, but
those of the one held in Sydney last week,
to which delegates came from all the States,
well repaid perusal. Many thoughtful things
were said, and occasionally a deep note was
struck. A lady, Miss Baker, had unanimous
support for her proposal that education by
correspondence should be compulsory in all
outlying districts where there are no schools.
“We must think of the future,” she said.
“The people outback will play a big part
in shaping the destinies of Australia”; and
so they will, but they must have instructed
“Now, I ask you, Mister, as man to man,
which am I to be?”
minds. A. J. Souter also had the conference
with him when he suggested that “suitable
super-primary courses” should be provided
for youngsters who want to take up farm
work instead of drifting into the ranks of
the unemployed, as so many thousands of
them are doing, and, in some cases, “sliding
from idleness into ci’ime.”
Every boy leaving school is a legatee of Dick
Whittington in his imagination, but, when oppor-
tunity is denied, is it any wonder that some of
them become Dick Turpins?
For that one glowing illustration of the
naost tragic effect of the depression the con-
ference was worth while.
The “first” Five-year Plan has ended
without the capitalist nations being brought
to their knees. Instead, the Russians are so
short of food, the Communist farms having
failed to produce anything in abundance,
except decrees, that, as is suggested in
Canada, the capitalist countries may have
to unite to send them wheat, lest a large part
of the population starve to death. That
nearly happened in 1921, when the stricken
Reds were saved by the charity of capitalist
“Comrade, I am hungry.”
“Never mind, Tavarish. See how fat the
State ox grows.”
Britons and Americans. Meanwhile Trotsky
has bobbed up, not to confess the failure
of the Five-year Plan, but to rail at the un-
happy Stalin because Stalin and his pals
have ceased “to aim at a series of national*
revolutions, building into world revolution.”
What a nasty old Yid he must be!
The Moscow correspondent of the New
York “Times,” greatest of American dailies,
reported a few weeks ago that “two-thirds
of the Soviet population will be lucky if
it gets more than bread, potatoes and cab-
bage this winter as a regular diet, with fish
three times a week and meat once a week:
and that in quantities below the people’s
wants.” There is no attempt to disguise the
fact that there is widespread discontent —
which no doubt accounts for an address given
by the chairman of the grand council
(reported by cable during the week) that
the end of the rainbow is just around the
next corner.
Queensland is to have a Bureau of Indus-
try with seven official and eight non-official
members. The official members are the
Premier, J. B. Brigden (he is called Direc-
tor), J. D. Storey (Public Service Commis-
sioner), W. L. Payne (Land Administration
Board), W. H. Austin (Under-Sec. for
Labor and Industry), J. R. Ivemp (Commis-
sioner of Main Roads) and A. H. Smith
(Under-Sec. of Works). The eight non-
officials are W. J. Riordan (formerly State
secretary of the A.W.U., now on the Indus-
trial Court), R. J. Webster (g.-m. Cotton
Board), R. J. Carroll (sec. Amalgamated
Engineers), Professor Richards (Science
prof, at Queensland Uni.), J. D. Bell (re-
presenting the building trade), J. P. Bot-
tomley (president of the Royal National
Association), E. F. Sumners (chairman of
the Meat Industry Board) and J. C. Lamont
(sec. of the A.W.U., southern district).
There will be committees to deal with rural,
finance, mining, unemployment and other
problems, and members are to hold office for
three years, being eligible for reappointment
at the end of their term. Representatives of
industries will be co-opted, if necessary, to
assist the bureau. The array of names is
impressive, but not to Trades Hallers. They
expected a much greater infusion of union-
secretary.
From a fervent Westralian patriot:—
One of the minor grievances of Westralians is
that, although they have to subscribe to the protec-
tion of Queensland and N. S. Wales bananas, they
can never get any. Practically all their bananas
come from Java, and the price is inflated by the
duty of Bs. 4d. a cental, which, though protective
in the markets which N. S. Wales and Queensland
bananas reach, becomes an outrageously stiff revenue
duty in Westralia. The facts were admitted at the
conference of bananagrowers in Sydney, and a dele-
gate kindly suggested that all the Fiji bananas
coming in should be diverted to Westralia. This
would be an excellent arrangement for the growers,
since they would regain full control of the Sydney
and Melbourne markets, but, with- high inter-State
freight charges added, the Fiji fruit which has been
selling at 3d. and 4d. a banana in the Big Cities
would cost sd. or 6d. in Westralia. The proceeds
of the duty on the Fiji consignments are to be
applied to “improving the growth, treatment and
marketing of Australian bananas.” Bananas can
be grown in North Westralia, and it would be a
fair thing to reserve portion of the fund for experi-
mental work in that direction.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Olio”: Touching this souveniring from
steamers (B. 11/1,/’33). When the
present King and Queen visited. Auck-
land 32 years ago, the Ophir was
open to sightseers, : and dense throngs
inspected the ship. A stout female was seen
tearing the ornamental bobs off the fringe
of the Royal curtains. An officer hurried up
to remonstrate. The lady turned on him
truculently. “Ho!” she said, “it’s the Jook’s
cabin, is it? Arid who pays the Jook’s salary
so that he can have them curtains, tell me
that?” With that she placed the disputed
trimmings in her pocket and: withdrew.
“lan C.”: Supreme contempt for the
police was shown by safebreakers who lifted
£1629, £llO worth of jewellery and three
pistols from the E., S. and A. Bank, Ivew
ON THE MERCY OF THE COURT.
“Now, Clarrie, I want you to turn round and tell the class what sort of an island
. New Guinea is.”
“You do it, please, Miss. You know more about it than I do.”
(Vic.), during the New Year week-end. The
bank is in Hlgli-street opposite the building
containing the post office and the police
station. The distance from the strong-
room (wffiere the experts left their plant
to demonstrate h'ow the job was done) to
the police station is no more than .60 yards.
Although the bank does big business and
the premises are fairly large the building is
a lock-up affair. Apparently it is cheaper
to insure the coin than keep a watchman.
. * # *
“Alicali”: Hard times always bring some
counterbalancing benefits. Recently-published
statistics indicate that Australia was never
so healthy or so temperate. Now the
N.S.W. Auxiliary of the British and Foreign
Bible Society comes along with the news
that it more than doubled its sales of Bibles
last year (29,486) compared with 1931, attri-
buting the increase to “the economic depres-
sion turning men’s thoughts to the Scrip-
tures,” the Old Testament particularly. Over
4000 of the Bibles disposed of were m
foreign tongues, including Arabic, Bengali,
Cantonese, Danish, Dutch, Greek, Hebrew,
Italian, Japanese, Javanese, Norwegian, Por-
tugese, Yiddish, Russian, Samoan and a
score of others. Most of these were sold
aboard ships in Sydney Harbor. Japanese
took over 1000. And the sale of complete
Bibles, as distinct from Testaments and
portions, represents only about a quarter of
the business done.
* * * *
“Hamer”: “Cap'n Flint” (B. li/l/’331
is, I fancy, mistaken in crediting the \\ ill
Wearweil who started as a boot-repairer
in a little lane off William-street with any
association with the Wigzell wig and hair-
dressing business. This last had its main
business in Oxford-street and only a branch
in William-street. The hairdressing busi-
ness, which lasted for at least two genera-
tions in Sydney, was originally founded by
members of an old wigmaking family in
London —theatrical work brought the
founder to Australia. “Will Wearweil
was of course purely a trade-name, and is
still in existence.
* * ;!; *
“Gautby” : Lady Angela St. Clair Erskine,
whose recent book of reminiscences with its
acid comments on Sydney Government
House fluttered divers Australian dovecotes,
has altered her intention of revisiting Syd-
ney, and is on her way to Maoriland instead.
Like her brother, the Earl of Rosslyn. Lady
Angela has all her father’s eccentricities
without his savoir fairc and talent. For
all his unconventionalities, the old Earl en-
joyed the warmest confidence of straitlaced
Victoria all his life. His appointment as
High Commissioner to the Church of Scot-
land, which staggered everyone, including
himself, was popularly ascribed to the old
Queen. This, however, was not the case.
Victoria desired him to be given the sinecure
of Master of the Buckhounds, and sent Dis-
raeli a message to that effect. “No, no,”
said Dizzy musingly to the messenger. He
swears too much for that. We’ll make him
High Commissioner to Scotland” —and so it
was.
* * *
“Wai-hoi”: The much-advertised Paddy
Whelan is far from being the first outbacker
to do a perish for water in the Queen Vic-
toria Desert. Ernest Giles, W. H. Tietkins,
David Lindsay, Larry Wells and David Car-
negie were a few of his predecessors, in the
experience—all of them dead except Tietkins,
now 89. In the early ’nineties Lindsay,
when in charge of the Elder Expedition,
put up a record between drinks for camels
that still stands. Watering places re-
ported by John Forrest and Giles 20
years earlier had dried up. In one native
well, however, he got 300 gallons, which was
insufficient to give the camels, a full drink
and to fill tlie pack casks. With the beasts
only half-satisfied Lindsay started across
the desert bound for Queen Victoria spring,
which Giles had found in 1875. For three
weeks he and his party fought their way
across the spinifex and sand, only to find
Q.V. spring bone-dry. They then made for
the Fraser Range, and in the rough hills
thereabouts, within 30 miles of Southern
Cross, the parched and leg-weary camels,
which had done 537 miles in just over a
month, were enabled to fill up. Lindsay
once told me that the memory of that ex-
perienee was a nightmare to him, He rode
his favorite camel, Misera, right through the
piece.
“X.A.F.C.”: There was a good deal of
press hysteria over the Whelan “rescue.’
One newspaper spoke of a “gamble with
death” when Pilot Baker had to land upon
the saltpan from which lie had previously taken
off, while another declared it “a feat that
lias never been paralleled in the annals of
Australian aviation.” Without depreciating
Baker’s difficult task in the least (pancak-
ing is more likely to break some part of the
’plane than the pilot’s bones), it is likely
enough that had he pancaked in the first
instance he would not have capsized; he
knew also that where he had taken off lie could
land again. Australia’s first two flying
units served in Alesopotamia and Palestine,
and in desert flying most pilots had forced
landings in strange places, sometimes to
rescue other pilots and frequently under fire.
Of these AlcNamara, Ross Smith, White
(now M.H.R.), Haig (Vacuum’s aviation
officer) and Austin are remembered, both
Haig and Austin having been taken prisoners
while endeavoring to ascend again. The pro-
visioning of Whelan should not have necessi-
tated bringing expensive fighting ’planes 1000
miles from Melbourne, One of the mail
’planes should have been able to drop water
and food sufficient for weeks; a camel party
could have done the rest. During the
siege of Ivut some live tons of flour and
barley, as well as money and a large
EVENING THINGS UP.
“She’s very strict with her husband.”
“To make up, I suppose, for the way she behaves when she’s not with him."
mill wheel, were dropped to the be-
leaguered garrison by the R.F.C. (which
included the Australian Half Flight), and
this from machines now' long obsolete, and
which ran the gauntlet of gun and m.-g. fire
and the attack of German pilots in more effi-
cient ’planes. To prevent loss, flour and
other eatables were enclosed in double cas-
ings, a tight and a loose one. The inner bag
invariably burst, but the contents were held
by the loose outer covering. Practically the
only serious loss was a large bag of
rupees, dropped hastily during a fight, fell
into the Turkish trenches.
:!t :1s % *
“R. Volt” : Radio continues to create new'
problems. Poland has just protected to
Britain because the 8.8. C. broadcast the
statement that it was spending a consider-
able portion of its Budget on armaments. The
Poles complain that the remark is political
propaganda against a friendly nation and
want such things stopped. Any Govern-
ment has the option of stopping things it
doesn’t like, such as the truth about itself,
entering the country via the telegraphs, tele-
phones. books, newspapers and posts, but the
ether presents a different proposition. Pre-
sumably the Poles have listening sets and
hearken in to their owm local stations, and
presumably their Government jealously super-
vises the mental pabulum broadcast, like the
Governments of other countries. But it has
no jurisdiction over vagrant remarks that
wander in via the ether from other countries,
and there’s the trouble. The only feasible
scheme would be an international convention
pledging every Government to confine its
radio programmes to bedtime stories.
* * * *
“Ballistics”: In his interesting study of
the velocity of falling objects (B. 11/l/’33)
“Murkah” has failed to take the factor of
air resistance into consideration. At the
late w'ar it used to puzzle many who had
read up the subject in musketry regulations
how it was that machine-gun bullets,
which frequently lobbed back among the
troops after missing a passing aeroplane,
did not return to earth w'ith the (say)
2000 ft. per second velocity with which they
left the machine-guns. In my own experi-
ence, more than one man was hit by these
falling projectiles, and many horses, but
beyond a disagreeable smack I never heard
of any casualties. Air resistance was the
explanation usually offered by people w’ho
professed to know.
* * * *
“Centurion” : Anyone who has lived in a
garrison town will appreciate the new's that
the Northumberland Fusiliers “went out”
after one of their number had been killed in
a Christmas-eve scrap at Kingston, Jamaica,
and cleaned up the towm. Of coui*se, they
clashed with the civil police. In a garrison
town the trouble usually starts —or did in
the days of the Old Contemptibles—betw'een
different regiments, preferably infantry and
cavalry units. The infantryman took off his
belt and, folding it double, laid on W'itli
the ends carrying the heavy brass buckle.
The cavalry, beltless in the shell jackets of
those days, slipped off their box spurs and
waded in with these protruding from between
their knuckles. Considering the weapons,
fatalities were rare, though bloodshed was
plentiful.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: There never was much origin-
ality noticeable in the nomenclature of Aus-
tralian provincial newspapers (B. 4/l/’33).
Even a name like the “Plain Dealer,” which
is missing from “Clerk’s” list, had a homely
flavor of its own, but I suppose the “P.D.”
has gone the way of numerous other publi-
cations. The “T’othersider” was a rather
aptly christened weekly in the old roaring
days of Coolgardie, when a good deal of the
roaring was directed at the Groper Govern-
ment of the period, but the “T’othersider”
didn’t last very long. Something in the
nature of the Arizona “Kicker” would cer-
tainly be a refreshing change. I never
heard of anything like that in Australia,
unless it was'the “Hannans Hatchet,” which
hardly lived long enough to impress itself
on the public. “Clerk” rather amazes me
when he states that the number of Aimers
is down to a paltry three. In the late
’nineties the Westralian fields wore thick
with “Miners” ; I can recall nearly a dozen
offhand. But the mortality was heavy among
them when it once began, and most of the
plants were gradually shifted to the Wheat
Belt to hammer out their literary efforts
under new titles.
* * * *
“Calvert”: In the Kalahari Desert a
species of wild melon or pumpkin is sup-
posed to be sufficient to quench the thirst
of the nomad Bosjesmen. It is news
to learn that there are tribes in Australia
who are becoming as adaptable. Michael
Terry, the explorer-writer, who arrived in
Kalgoorlie the other day from somewhere
near Alice Springs, after a seven months
prospecting trip, reported the finding of
many previously unknown rockholes and
native wells. Further, he _ discovered that
these weren’t always as indispensable to
natives as has been supposed:—
At Mount Farewell we followed a party of
blacks, thinking that they were making for water;
and came upon them four days off water. It appeared
that, in common with other natives in the district,
they did not drink water in winter, but sucked
moisture from yams.
Another notable thing the prospectors en-
countered was “a flock of about 100 Prin-
cess Alexandra parakeets, supposed to w
almost extinct and worth from £5O to £lOO
apiece.” Anyone know anything about this
valuable fow'l?
* * * * ■
“Muttra”: The monotony of life in North-
ern India has been relieved by the troubles
of the Maharajah of Alwar. Many of that
potentate’s subjects, numbering about a mil-
lion mixed Hindus and .Moslems, have
rebelled against his taxes and entrenched
themselves in the impenetrable hill fastnesses
of the eastern Aravalis, whence their sov-
ereign’s small army is unable to dislodge
them. The Maharajah has asked for British
troops to help him to restore order, a hard
pill for an independent prince to swallow.
Alwar a State in north-east Rajputana,
lias alwavs had some reputation loi
turbulence," and the spending proclivities ot
its feudal lords have more than once resulted
in the bailiffs being put in—in other words
the British Resident has taken over. Ihe
present Maharajah and his State have a good
war record, but it is quite on the cards. that
he mav be asked to retire in favor of the
next heir to enable the country to pick up
again - * * * *
“Retired Volt” : This is a marvellous age!
When Bradman made his century in the
Melbourne Test 70,000 throats bcl
their owners’ joy. A talkie operator
tered the terrifying sound, and it is .
indexed and pigeonholed in local libraries
if film noises, 1 to be used for any occasion
when a loud collective uproar is required.
;jj *
“Cover” : The Japanese troops should. by
now be well used to fighting in the millet
invXable cover when %
Srlritff '“preseSativeTvi.h the Japan-
esi stiff “ives a most vivid description of
this hf his account of the battle of Lmoyang
which he witnessed fromi the toP of a hiU
Hamilton had learned something 01 . ca YM
in the Boer war, but he was dumbfounded hy
So invisibility ot the Japanese infantry He
knew there was an army corps beneath him
advancing through the crops on which th
Russian shrapnel was Paying, but he
get no visible evidence of it. Even the
did not betrav the moving troops, for a
strong breeze kept the tall stalks in motion
as far as the eye could see.
GREEN AND GOLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Canberra was invaded by some hundreds of young
girls from all parts of the Commonwealth m the
natty fawn uniforms of the Y.A.L., escorted b> an
adequate number of chaperones picturesquely attired
in bottle-green and gold.’’
They fluttered over lea and lawn,
.By gay parterres they floated,
A flock of fawns, in silken fawn
xippropriately coated.
So light, so deft, be sure they left
All eyes that saw beholden ;
And ev’ry here and there was shown
Among the ranks a chaperone
All bottle-green and golden.
The fi'ouse of Reps, they crashed, you bet,
And in its lore were tutored.
Those maids, in modest sarsenet
So soberly
Lithe frames and fair within the Chair
In turn were tucked and folden ;
Nor all were hued in hodden grey—-
Some sitters’, garbs, it’s safe to say,
Were bottle-green and golden.
They came to Canb’rra, bright young things,
To make their jaunt a merry ’un.
And drink their fill from various springs
. (I mean, of course, Pierian).
They W 7 ent ahead, all shyness fled,
For numbers aye embolden ;
Round Ainslie brae they hit the breeze,
Some just munditiis simplices,
Some bottle-green and golden.
In cut-to-pattern uniform
(For oh! their rules are stringent),
They took the Capitol by storm,
The Y.A.L. contingent.
Still, color gleams were there, it seems,
To glad young eyes and olden :
Each flapping file of fawn between,
xv chaperone lit up the scene,
All bottle-green and golden !
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Oi Diba Lasi” : It is wonderful how the
heathen in the sun-kissed isles of the
Pacific are responding to the cultural influ-
ences of civilisation. The other day in Port
Moresby a game of football between a team
of indigenes from Elevala village and one
from tlie Armed Native Constabulary of
Papua ended in a fashion worthy of Sydney.
A police barracker punctured the ball with
his bayonet, and in the subsequent excite-
ment chased the opposition into the sen.
THE ALTERNATIVE.
BROWN : “In my opinon, a man must act a part if he wants
to be happy after he’s married.”
JONES: “Yes— or else live apart.”
That night 300 villagers stormed the police
barracks with sticks and other weapons, a
heartening eome-all-ye resulting. Govern-
ment House is near by, and it was not until
his Ex. and suite took a hand that the
brawl ended. That is where Port differs
from Sydney. No one would expect Sir
Philip Game to act as peacemaker in a box-
on between, say, Balmain and Newtown at
Sydney Sports Ground.
* * * *
i(A , „ „ T c . , . ...
Mells : In a South African provincial
paper I happened on an account of a lecture
on “Wool-farming in Australia,” delivered
by a young man of Boer extraction who
lnd insf- rptnrnprl fmm \t c w rni -
had just letumed tiom JN.b.W. me
speaker, it was noted, surprised many of
Ins audience by mentioning that the Aus-
tralian merino came originally from South
Africa, and followed that with the curious
assertion that the fact, though incontrovert-
ible was not agreeable to the average Aus-
tralian squatter ’ He didn’t say why it was
disagreeable, and there is obviously no reason
why it should be Everyone knows that
the sheep is not indigenous to this country,
and where it was brought from doesn’t seem
to be a matter of any great moment. For
that matter, merinos were no more indi-
genous to the Cape of Good Hope than to
Australia. Macarthur, according to the his-
torians, laid the foundation of this conti-
neut’s flocks by purchasing “eight Spanish
merinos from the Cape,” from which it
might be argued that our obligation is really
more to Spain than South Africa. Actually
it is more to England than either; there is
plenty of evidence that British wool was
esteemed the finest in the world even in
Roman times. Spain almost certainly got
the merino from England. One authority
has it that the first merinos in Spain were
taken there in the fourteenth century as
OF FF HIS AIM.
“No, I think you’re mistaken, dear—Bliggs is just one of the English fieldsmen, not
their fast bowler.”
“Oh, but I think he must be. My husband said he missed Bradman twice.”
part of the dowry of an English princess,
and that England started re-importing
merinos from Spain about the time the First
Fleet reached Australia.
“7340”: At one stage on Gallipoli the
breakfast ration of our unit consisted of
bully beef and porridge on alternate days.
Consequently the utensils used by ration
fatigues were dixie lids only or dixies, as
the case required. A raw young reinforce-
men t detailed for ration fatigue asked,
“What do I get the breakfast in to-day?”
“Take the blue dinner service, son,” sug-
gested a cynical “original.”
“Kerys” : It was well known in our resi-
dential that Mr. Scales, the musician in
the front first-floor balcony
room, had paid no rent for
months ; so, when our land-
lady went off one morning
to Randwick we were not
altogether surprised to see
a lorry arrive and hear
sounds' of impending de-
parture from Mr. Scales’s
room. The trouble was the
piano, which couldn’t nego-
tiate the narrow staircase,
and had to depart as it had
entered, over the balcony
per slings. It proved such
a lengthy job that the land-
lady’s return coincided with
the second stage of the
piano’s progress, it being
perilously suspended in
mid-air as she entered the
gate. In two minutes the
resourceful woman had
sized up the situation and
was on the balcony, plus
the hedge clippers; a
moment later Mr. Scales
had been given the choice
of putting the piano back
or seeing the instrument
crash to its end. While he
hesitated a perspiring re-
movalist inquired tersely,
“Hup or down, sir?” with
every indication of a pre •
ference for down. Mr
Scales gave in. That even-
ing we heard our landlady
in kindly argument with
the delinquent. “Times is
hard all right, Mr. Scales.”
she sa'id, “but I’m depend-
ing on that pianner same
as you. An’ if you ever
get it out without paying
me I’ll come along and
smash it up.” Mr. Scales
is still with us.
“Ibn el Issar”: When a Sikh non-com. of
an Indian sappers and miners’ corps shot a
European officer in a fit of pique the other
day, all Sikhs in the corps were deprived of
the right to carry or have charge of Govcrn-
ment arms for a fortnight. Commenting on
this, a Sydney journal considers the tem-
porary disarmament of a “Sikh regiment” an
example of the thickheadedness of the British
officer in India, and asks what the idea is. In
the first place there is no Sikh regiment.
The Sirkar does not encourage regiments of
o ne particular creed, race or caste. At the
most there would be a Sikh company with
Punjabi and perhaps Dogra companies to
them. These could be trusted to make
the lives of the Sikhs unbearable to them
during the time they were deprived of their
arms< and woukl tremendously diminish their
what the Maoris would call man a or
nhineso “fnop ” ti or, An
men t in the Indian Amy. ' P
* * * *
“Wai-hoi”: I agree with “Waranbini” (P,
4/l/’33) that Grafton hasn’t it all on its
own with tree-lined streets The little town
0 f Bnsselton (W.A.) has a magnificent
avenue of peppermints which meet overhead
top-side of the main street, and on a biaziii"
hot day. when the highway is in deen shade"
you bless the memory of the planters They’re
not the only ancient things thereabouts • a
tiny Anglican church alongside the Va’sse
River dates back to 1846, and in the church
yard lies Colonel Molloy, a Waterloo officer
who was prominent in W A pioneering davs’
The St. Helena willow that Napoleon used
to look after is also supposed to be repre-
sented by the willows planted by Molloy at
Fairlawn, just outside Busselton. but for
that matter every ancient willow in Aus-
tralasia is quoted as being a relative. Narro-
gin (W.A.) boasts several long streets
planted with wattles, and in blossom time I’ll
back them to give Grafton a go for a blaze
of color. And for big isolated trees in streets
I enter Derby (W.A.), with its three im-
mense baobab-trees, and Cairns (N.Q.),
whose banyan-tree is the largest I’ve seen
outside of a tropical jungle.
“Pawang” : Julian Huxley, who is gener-
ally regarded as a pretty competent observer,
disagrees with the opinion of “D.” (B.
4/.1/’33) that intellectually the Russian
Revolution is a washout. After a personal
investigation he came to the conclusion (“A
Scientist Among the Soviets”) that “Russia
in respect of most branches of pure
science is in tlie first rank, and i.s turning
out new and fundamental research work at
a great rate.” In biology it is studying tin l
most abstruse problems (Pavlov’s experi-
mental work upon the brain has a world-
wide reputation) ; in the department of
health it has converted the Moscow mortality
rate from 23.1 per thousand in 1913 to 13,
while the infant mortality rate has fallen
from 27 to 12 p.c.; and a knowledge of
what its agricultural-research laboratories
are doing is necessary to every foreign
student. The Institute of Plant Industry,
which employs several hundred research
workers, and at least an equal number of
technical assistants, has 28,000 varieties of
wheat. Huxley sums up by saying that “in
Russia, in spite of their average economic
standard being so much lower than ours, a
far larger proportion of the national income
is assigned to science than was the ca.se
with us even during times of prosperity.”
CONFIDENCE.
“My husband took a sea trip last year and was bored to death."
“Between ourselves, my dear, I think I could put up with it if mine was even over-
board.”
As for “D.’s” fanciful picture of the “renais-
sances” which allegedly followed revolutions
in other countries, none of those movements
were recognised by such a grand title for
years or generations afterwards.
* * :|: * .
“Spasebo”: The custom of providing
actual or potential enemies with munitions
is by no means confined to the British and
the Maoris (B. 4/l/’33). Not only were
Allied soldiers killed and wounded on Qalli-
poli by ammunition made in Britain, but
Japanese were recently killed at Shanghai
mainly by shells made in Japan. Munition-
providing i.s as international in spirit as art
and science. Furthermore, progressive Gov-
ernments take a professional pride in help-
ing backward Governments to organise their
defence by lending them naval and military
instructors. The Afghan, Siamese, Persian,
Russian, Japanese and Chinese fleets, armies
and air forces are impressive testimonials to
the fact. It is difficult to see how it can be
otherwise until there is one effective inter-
national authority for the globe.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : Mention in a recent Bulletin of
convict Stanford’s fountain has recalled one
of the most extraordinary and
ponderous thefts in Melbourne
history. The piece of sculp-
ture was originally completed
with four carved bluestone
seats weighing eight tons —
Stanford’s work as well. They
were there in 1907, but some
time after that year they van-
ished. Considering that the
site is a small garden between
Spring-street and Gisborne-
street, is visible from all sides
and has a taxi rank beside it.
the fact that nobody observed
the theft till 15 years after-
wards suggests that Melbourne
is as blind to its sculptural
beauties as it is to its archi-
tectural atrocities. And i r
might never have? been noticed
if a citizen long absent from
his homeland had not returned
and gone to the garden to look
at his favorite piece of statu-
ary. There was a belated hue
and cry, but those bluestone seats have never
been traced.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A shoeman in Flinders-street, Mel-
bourne, has borrowed an idea for an advt.
from the barraeker’s brief lexicon. He is
exhibiting a huge boot with the legend
“For the mate see Tate.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: Touching absent-mindedness
amongst the great in railway trains (B.
4/1/':;.“,). One of Melbourne’s leading
painters found himself alone in a suburban
train with a young lady. Struck by the
ensemble she presented he fell into a reverie
concerning problems of color and tone. As
is his wont, he became completely objective,
and began “cutting her off” by making a
funnel of his hand and 1 squinting through it
at her. He was brought back to mundane
things when the damsel leapt out of the
carriage at the next stop and reported to the
guard that there was a dangerous lunatic
in her compartment. What made the matter
look worse was that the artist is the pos-
sessor of a beard, synonymous in the minds
of most young ladies with all the most
sinister subversive elements in society.
Luckily the guard came from the painter’s
own district and knew him well.
“Joseph Scott” : Perhaps the most assidu-
ous of all travellers for trade purposes are
the pearl-buyers who visit our shores. I met
one recently in Broome who has in the last 10
months made the following trips to the
pearling centres of the world: Paris to
Venezuela and back to Paris; Paris to Boin-
bay. to the Philippines, to the Aroe Islands,
to Macassar, to Bahrein on the Persian
Gulf, via India, back to Paris; Paris
to Shark Bay and Broome, thence by ’plane
to Sydney and Thursday Island before re-
turning to Paris. In conversation,, he in-
stanced a piece of Government grab in
Australia. Although he can operate freely,
by showing returns, in all other parts of
the world, he has to pay £5O for a license
to the W.A. Government before proceeding
to Broome, even though there may not be
suitable gems or baroque offering for his
requirements.
ANOTHER LANG FEAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Because of the split in the N.S.W. Labor party
between the Garden-Graves faction and the socialisa-
tion section, the plan for the transfer of Mr. Lang
to Federal politics has been temporarily dropped.”
There’s few we could have spared with less
of grieving,
But this announcement seemingly denotes
You’re loath your leadership to think of
leaving,
With comrades flying at each other’s
throats.
You’ll seek to bring these mutineers to order,
And try to quell the usual Easter flare,
Before you lob across the Federal border
To raise fresh ructions there.
A wild contempt for facts, as is your
fashion,
Whatever be your job you’re bound to
show;
Suspicion, envy, rancor, factious passion.
You’ll carry with you wheresoe’er you go.
At roaring and at ranting to the gallery
It isn’t ever likely you’ll be beat,
Whether at .Canberra you draw your salary
Or in Macquarie-street.
Yet in a new arena, wider, vaster
Than that you’ve trod and trampled here
with us,
You’d have diminished scope to work
disaster.
I’ll venture, and be less calamitous.
Twice you’ve essayed to bully and to boss us,
But in the Commonwealth my fancy fails
To ever feature you as the Colossus
You’ve been in New South Wales.
Yes, we could spare few better. Perfect
candor
Compels the plain admission, or it should,
Though Graves and Garden might demur,
and Gander,
It’s safe to say, unquestionably would.
Yet you will stay, it’s clear, till there’s a
lul 1 in
This fratricidal strife and angry buzz.
Well, the delay will hardly worry Scullin,
Whatever else it does.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


m.
m
m
ht#'-
m
m
m
'• 1 ■■•.'«
m
m
asH
.rv-.;.::
The SHELL Company, Ltd.
FOR
INSTANT STARTING
INSTANT ACCELERATION
SUSTAINED POWER
GREATER MILEAGE
SHELL
IS BETTER
S. 1366
PERSONAL
ITEMS
There is nation-wide sympathy with Earle
Page, ex-Federal Treasurer and leader of
the Country party, whose eldest son, Earle
Charles, was struck by lightning on Satur-
day and killed instantly. He and a yHunger
brother, Ivan, were taking a mob of cattle
to Dr. Page’s Heifer station, near Copman-
hurst, at the time. Ivan saw a vivid flash
and his brother’s horse crumpled and fell.
Spurring across, he found both horse and
rider already dead. Young Page, a B.Sc. of
Sydney University, was 22 years of age; he
had been managing Heifer station since the
middle of last year. At Newington lie had
made his mark as an athlete, especially On
the football field, and he was widely known
on the Northern Rivers as a fine, likeable
fellow.
Edward Scholes, the N.S.W. District Court
Judge, and his brother Joshua, who have
died Within a week of one another, were sons
of an old Northern Tablelands squatter.
Edward went to the law; Joshua followed
father, and had runs on both sides of the
border. Edward lived to be 75 ; his brother
was, nine years older. Edward was one of
the few front-rank Sydney lawyers who have
given much time to local-government affairs;
he married a daughter of hardware-merchant
John ' Keep, and the Keeps Were a large
force in their day at Burwood and there-
abouts.
Lord Somers, former Governor of Vic.,
is back in Melbourne on a holiday visit,
mainly to spend a week at the “power-house’’
camp he established a few years ago at
Westernport to encourage public-school and
industrial youths to mix and appreciate the
best in one another. With the official
hobbles off he is even a better fellow than
he was as Cocked Hat. He has friends
in all political parties, as lie was a good
mixer and saw four Governments during his
1926-31 term.
The judging for this year's Archibald
Prize—E. Buckmaster, of Melbourne, won
it—is the signal for this paper to produce
a hitherto Unpublished photo. When Archi-
bald was planning The Bulletin, he and
David Ferguson, afterwards Mr. Justice
Ferguson, were living together; incidentally
Ferguson read the proofs of the first number
of the paper. In those days Archibald had
a horror of the camera, and the only photo,
of him taken in that period is a “gem”—
one of the little “tin-types” (lin. x fin.)
which were then popular, and had the merit
of being very cheap. Archibald and a
J. F. ARCHIBALD, a hitherto unpublished
photo., taken in the year he founded
THE BULLETIN.
couple of friends turned into the “studio’
one day to see what the process was like.
Afterwards, of course, they swapped gems.
Ferguson put the tin-type of Archibald
away, and it was only unearthed when
recently his Honor, on retiring from the
N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench, had a final
cleaning-out of his chambers. The Bulle-
tin photographer enlarged the midget
miraculously, and produced what is declared
to be a striking likeness of the Archibald of
the period when The Bulletin was
founded. At that time he was only 22,
J. P. Canny, who was for 20 years Tiie
Bulletin’s banker and its friend in many
things, has just retired from the business,
after 46 years of it. Canny, whose father
was a school inspector in Queensland, joined
the Bank of North Queensland, and was its
manager in Sydney for many years; later
also manager of the Bank of Queensland-
formed by the union of the Bank of N.Q. and
the Royal. When in its turn this bank was
merged in the National Bank of Australasia,
Mr. Canny became manager of the N.S.u.
branch dept. It was from this office he was
farewelled last week.
Richard Buzacott, dead in Melbourne at
65, was a Senator for Westralia from 1910
to 1922. Before that he was a miner at
Menzies and had a couple of shots at the
Assembly; indeed, it was a wave of sym-
pathy for him in his ill-luck —he had beaten
BERT HINKLER,
Australia’s other great
airman, He left Eng-
land in bad weather
on a solo flight to
Australia on January
7, and at the time of
writing nine days
later nothing had
been heard of him.
II av r v Gregory,
then Minister for
Mines, but Greg-
ory had contrived
to get the election
upset and had in-
duced the voters to
reverse the verdict
—w hi c h secured
Bilzacott a Labor
nomination for the
Senate. He attain-
ed no reputation
there except as a
reliable voter at
his party’s call;
but his party
changed in 1916,
When, with four
other Westralian
Labor Senators —
Pearce, Lynch, De
Largie and Hen-
derson —he follow-
ed Hughes over the
conscription issue.
Pearce and Lynch
have survived, but
the Westralian
Nationalists tired
of the other three
in 1922, and rele-
gated them to
obscurity.
“Ivoori-an” : Gul-
lett, whom ill-
health has forced
to resign his port-
folio, once told me
his first real intro-
ductidn to journal-
ism came per
medium of solicitor
Crouch, recently
M.H.R. for Coran-
gamite. Crouch
was then editing a
small provincial
paper somewhere in Victoria; thither Gullett
forwarded his first literary effort, had it
accepted, received something more than an
encouraging word from Crouch, and then
went ahead. I heard Gullett say in the
House, after listening to a pacifist outburst
by the superannuated Colonel: “That extra-
ordinary old man gave me my first lift in
journalism.”
The Rev. Charles F. L’Oste, who retired
from the Anglican ministry 24 years ago, has
celebrated his 104th birthday at St. Helens
(Tas.), where he arrived in 1889. The
venerable cleric, who claims to be the oldest
Cambridge graduate living, is Ehglish-born
of French descent; he arrived in Australia
71 years ago. and after Serving his church
in Melbourne and in the Riverina made the
Speck his home.
Ettie Rout (Mrs. HornibrOok), the Maori-
lander who did such amazingly fine work for
the Diggers in Paris during the war and
through them for Australia, is settled in
London, and continues her campaign against
v.d. She has been • lecturing lately under
the auspices of the Metropolitan Secular
Society, which is a consistent worker for
sexual hygiene.
,T. Cleland writes :
Alfred Ivingsland is not the only survivor of the
ill-fated Escape Cliffs expedition (B. 4/l/’33) ;
present writer, now living at Semaphore (S. Aus.),
was another of the relief party dispatched by the
S. Aus. Government in the barque Bengal in 1864.
While at Escape Cliffs I assisted in the fitting out
of the Forlorn Hope, a boat which, after a wonderful
voyage, duly reached Geraldton (W.A.). Those
remaining were brought away from Escape Cliffs
by the Eagle, , the first steamer to make the
trip. After returning from Escape Cliffs, I assisted
in the erection of the overland telegraph line and
later was one of the survivors of the Gothenburg,
wrecked, on the Barrier Reef. Returning to the
Territory, I spent nearly 50 years there in pearling,
prospecting and mining, and recently passed the
84th milepost.
At 77, Rabbi S. A. Goldstein has just
completed 52 years of service at Auckland;
he is the second shepherd of the Jewish com-
munity there over a period of 80 years. His
predecessor w r as Rabbi Moses Elkin. On
completion of Rabbi Goldstein's 50 years of
service in 1930 the rare distinction of
“Morenu” (“our teacher”) was conferred on
him by Dr. J. H. Hertz, chief Rabbi of the
British Empire.
W. T. (Bill) Charge, recently appointed
to the N. S. Wales Economic Adjustments
Committee, has an alphabet of Australian,
English and American accountancy degrees
after his name. He learnt his accountancy
under Hemingway and Robertson 25 years
ago, and his fees were a godsend to the
firm in those struggling years. To-day H.
and R. claim to have put more accountants
through their exams, than any other firm of
coaches in the world; and for the past five
years Charge has been divisional principal
for N. S. Wales and Queensland. He takes
a keen interest in the problem of the boy
-—it is his chief hobby. Hence the appoint-
ment to the committee set up to help solve
the unemployment difficulty. He was also a
founder of the Taxpayers’ Association of
Australia, and has put out several works on
accountancy and kindred subjects. Still in
his early forties, in his younger days Bill
was an athlete of note in Victoi’ia.
Had an 80th birthday in Adelaide, A. W.
Wellington, a Methodist minister with a long
record in Westralia, Broken Hill and S. Aus.
As a sideline he played cricket, umpired when
past playing, and has seen every English
team since Lillywhite’s.
Tom Allen, the originator of the scenic
road from Eildon weir to Jamieson (Vic.),
passed out at his home, Thornton, the other
day. The Allens w-ere in every gold-mining
venture in the ranges from Wood’s Point
to Jamieson.
Frederick W. Kaiser, Harold Clapp’s
ambulance officer, who is retiring after 44
years’ service, lias been wrapping the service
in lint and iodine since 1909. When he was
appointed Vic. railways had no official ambu-
lance staff or proper first-aid equipment.
To-day, thanks to Kaiser, the organisation
includes two hospital cars, 22 breakdown
vans, 150 ambulance chests, 1700 stretchers,
1300 ambulance boxes, a dozen casualty
litters and 15 ambulance rooms. Kaiser was
born in Maoriland, started in the Vic. rail-
ways as a porter and had qualified as a
stationmaster when lie found his true voca-
tion.
Maoriland has lost a stout old-timer in Jean
Jacques de Mey d’Alkemandat, 78. French-
born, he went as a youngster with his family
to England, thence emigrating to Maoriland
in 1879. There he took a hand in settling
the trouble with the Maoris, and assisted in
the arrest of the rebellious chief Te Whiti.
Later he became supervisor of physical cul-
ture to the M.L. Permanent Artillery and
the Wellington Board of Education.
Colonel Tom
White, the new
Customs Minister,
vice Harry Gul-
lett, driven out by
ill-health, is man-
aging director of
the old-established
family business
which has special-
ised in making
door - locks and
other hardware in
Melbourne He is
lucky to be where
he is. In the war
he was in the fly-
ing corps and was
forced down near
Bagdad; Johnny
Turk rescued him
in the nick of time
from a gang of
Bedouin brigands.
However, they only
saved his life to
make him prisoner,
and he had a long
spell of captivity;
the story of it and
his sensational
escape through
Russia is told in
“Guests of the Un-
speakable”—Angus
and Roberts o n
have just published
still another edi-
tion of it. Ten
years after the war
he won the Bala-
clava seat in the
Reps., and made
his mark in the
House at once. He
grew up in an
atmosphere of poli-
tics. His wife is
Colonel T. W. WHITE,
new Minister for
Customs.
one of Alfred Deakin’s daughters.
T. W. White, the new Minister for
Customs, was one of the young Australians
who gave The Bulletin so many brilliant
pictures of the war from the inside. White
kept his contributions going even after he
had fallen into the hands of the Turks. As
a prisoner of war his attention was on one
occasion directed to a new regulation—that
letters must not exceed six lines in length.
White had a lot to say, and he observed
that there was no limit to the length of the
lines. He therefore took a sheet of paper 3ft.
or so wide and wrote his six lines on that ;
and his Turkish gaoler was sport enough to
pass it with a grin. Communications to the
press were, of course, prohibited ; but letters
addressed to “Mr. Ed. Dyter” at the old
George-street number of The Bulletin got
through.
Dubbo, represented in the N.S.W. Leg.
Assembly by George Wilson, of the Country
party, was one of the electorates won by the
Langsters in 1930 on the 75.-6 d.-a-bushel
wheat promise. On that occasion Alf McClel-
land landed the bacon with a bare 260 votes
to spare. The wheatgrowers soon realised
that something had been done to their legs,
so they turned to George Wilson, a Lake
Cowal grazier, known from one end of the
GEORGE WILSON, N.S.W. Country
party M.L.A.
electorate to the other for his devotion to
rural interests. George’s people were highly
regarded in the Wyalong and Forbes districts.
They sent their son to Scotch College,
Melbourne, and saw him safely settled at
Lake Cowal after he had finished his school-
ing. He served in the Great War with the
First Batt. and lost a leg on the Somme.
Closely connected with local-government
affairs for many years, he had been presi-
dent of the Shires’ Association, and had
done much hard work in getting better roads
outback. He was also deputy-leader of the
Western movement. In the chamber he is a
keen debater and in the party room a genial
colleague.
“D.D.” sends a note full of ghosts:—
Yes, the “As We Said Before” page does revive
pleasant memories in us old-timers. The signature of
Prank Mahony in the Christmas Number recalled to
me vividly the day I met him. Ernest Favenc, the
explorer and writer, had taken me up to the
“Picturesque Atlas” building, from whose windows
we could hear and see the proceedings connected
with the unveiling of Dr. Lang’s statue. There
he introduced me to Mahony and Fullwood. It
was Lord Jersey’s first public appearance as Governor
-—and the appearance was not in his favor. While
he was speaking, Mahony turned to me and re-
marked: “Doesn’t he look like a suburban grocer?”
Then a pause. “Still, he may be no mug, for all
that.” I rhet Mahony several times later. Fullwood
I never saw again. After proceedings were over,
Favenc and I Went into George-street and there we
met Mr. Hopkins. I never saw “Hop” again,
either; but a while later I came across a remark-
able impersonation of him. This red-headed rascal
used to get himself up in the likeness of different
well-known people and, thus disguised, sell the
“Dead Bird” in the streets —the “Dead Bird” was
a sporting paper of the time which served things
up pretty raw.
Professor Arnold Wall lias just returned to
M.L. from a country so remote that it has
not yet heard of the depression. This is
Tibet, where the traveller collected valuable
botanical specimens and took many pictures,
lie spent ten days at Le'h, capital of Ladakh
(Little Tibet)/ He found the natives
simple, extremely dirty and at about the
same stage of development as the Britons
at the time of the Saxon Conquest.
“W.W.”: Jim Long (B. 4/l/’33), was one
of the Speck’s first Labor party of four, sent
to Parliament 30 years ago from the mining
fields. The other three wdre Burns, Lamer-
ton and Jensen. All except Lamerton (who
was replaced by J. E. Ogden in 1908 and
disappeared from politics) later filled Fed-
eral seats. Jensen and Long were members
of the first (1909) Tas. Labor Ministry,
which lasted exactly one week. Jensen is
the sole survivor.
Just retired after 54 years’ service on the
Toowoomba CO.) “Chronicle,” Samuel White,
who. as foreman, had sent over 12,000
editions of the paper to press. Samuel’s
father filled a similar position on the Mary-
borough (Q.) “Chronicle” for 53 years.


Longer Service with
PIONEER BELTING.
In all weathers in tropical climate
and on the most difficult drives
Pioneer Leather Belting has
established records of economy
and endurance which have never
been equalled. You pay no more
for the guaranteed dependability
of Pioneer Leather Belting.
Write for Catalogue, Price List
and expert advice.
PIONEE
MJ// LEATHER
W BELTING
the LEADER SINCE 18S8
Made and guaranteed since 18d8 only by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.
JIT York Street, Sydney.
20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., Sth. Melbourne.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting- Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
é
6
D.
EACH
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITK.EN, SYDNEY
‘‘THE 'WILD CAT' MONTHLY"
JANUARY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
What Will 1933 Bring?
Are Interest Rates Too Low?
Trade Prospects: Where Are
They Brightest?
The Future of Share Prices.
These and other vital matters
to investors are discussed in the
January issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEE ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N. 2.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
E., S. and A. Bank
Net
Busi- Profits on
ness Old De- Written Re-
Profits. posits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
10 p.c.
1922 330,474 7064 131,989 50,000 1,601,090
Premiums on shares, £18,150 .. 1,619,240
12J p.c.
1923 395,348 6004 178,494 50,000 1,792,098
1924 467,502 8002 187,500 67,500 2,012,002
Premiums on shares, £302,331 . . 2,314,933
Transferred to capital, £300,000 2,014,933
1925 505,981 2500 243,750 65,000 2,214,604
1926 522,308 750 281,250 82,000 2,374,472
Royal Bank absorbed.
Net additions to reserves, £400,000 . . 2,774,472
1927 540,988 1250 295,313 95,000 2,926,397
Premiums on shares, £379,249 . . 3,305,646
1928 588,769 63 375,000 148,500 3,370,978
1929 591,263 375,000 159,500 3,427,741
1930 532,736 375,000 120,000 3,465,477
8 p.c.
1931 261,657 240,000 3,487,134
5 p.c.
1932 142,720 150,000 3,479,854
There was a growth of £667,898 in interest-
bearing deposits, accompanied by a contrac-
tion of £936,238 in advances. These move-
ments, together with the reduction of interest
on Commonwealth securities, including
Treasury bills, and the 1 p.c. cut (more in
some cases) in the charge for overdrafts,
wefe mainly responsible for the slip of
£219,837 in the year's gross earnings:—
1930. 1931. 1932.
Gross earning’s . . £1,587,758 £1,275,825 £1,055,988
Exes 827,941 786,832 706,456
Taxation . . . . 227,081 227,336 201,812
Net profit . . 542,736 266,657 147,720
As in the previous term, provision for bad and
doubtful debts and realised exchange loss
were charged against the reserve for con-
tingencies, which is deducted from the book
value of advances, etc., before writing the
figures into the sheet. Salary cuts and
other savings, including a smaller tax bill, left
the net result £118,937 lighter: it was equal
to 4.7 p.c. on capital as against 8.7,17.7,19.7,
19.6 and 23.1 p.c. back to 1927. Still, 5
p.c. was paid, and this in sterling equiva-
lent. which makes 5 p.c. worth 6| p.c. in
Australian notes at the current demand rate
on London. The final div. was at the rate
of 4 p.c. p.a. (=5 p.c. Australian currency).
This last cut in the div. disappointed
the market, and the price of the £5
shares paid to £3 fell from £5 ss.
to £4 14s. With exchange as it is, the
return at £4 14.5. is 3.2 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div.
basis or 4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. distribution. To
pay a 5 p.c. div. plus interest on the per-
petual stock—there is £1,872,966 of it, a
reminder of the 'nineties, costing the co.
a shade over 34 p.c.—capital, reserves and
perpetual stocks combined need net only
22 p.c.; and better than that might be ex-
pected under more settled conditions. Since
the books closed the tone of trade generally
has improved, but the interest on Treasury
bills has been further reduced from 4 p.c. to
3-1 p.c., and. the interest-bearing deposits con-
tinue to press heavily, notwithstanding that
Prices paid therefor have been reduced.
Consider these figures :
Liabilities.
1930. 1931. 1932.
Notes .. .. £1,062 £1,028 £1,028
Bills, etc. . . 1.883,539 1,571,139 1,787,911
Deposits at in-
terest . . 20,165,727 18,735,567 19,403,465
Free deposits.. 10,115,967 9,786,854 9,968,820
Total . . £32,166,295 £30,094,588 £31,252,224
Assets.
Liquids . . £11,256,073 £12,168,679 £14,196,155
Advances . . 28,867,868 25,699,024 24,762,786
Premises . . 735,798 711.987 711,103
Total . . £40,859,739 £38,579,600 £39,670,044
They disclose a sound structure. Most of
the money that came in during the year
went into liquids (up £2,027,476), which
were 45.4 p.c. of the liabilities to the public
as against 40.4 p.c. at the previous balance.
When the books closed advances had dropped
to 84.3 p.c. of the deposits, compared with
95.3 p.c. two years earlier, and the bank
was holding only £3 14s. lOd. of the public’s
money for every pound of its own, including
the perpetual stocks. It is a strong posi-
tion, but it means low earning power until
profitable employment can be found for more
of the funds. The continuance of good sea-
sons, a lift in world prices, a strong tariff,
steady exchange and reductions in taxation
and distribution costs, etc., are factors which
would help to strengthen securities and
create a further demand for advances.
Australian Cement, Ltd.
Towards
Nov., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit
Goodwill ( £75,000) and prelim, exes. ( £393) 75,393
Less: Reserves (£367) 75,026
£ £
1920.. 156,581 15 p.c. = 112,501 44,080 30,946
„ „ Reserves.
1926.. 106,249 10 „ „ 75,001 31,248 302
1927.. 109,404 10 „ „ 75,001 34,403 34,705
1928.. 94,603 10 „ „ 75,001 19,602 54,307
1929.. 134,340 15 „ „ 113,143 21,197 75,504
Premiums on shares, £8272 . . . . 83,776
Undertaking' sold to Aus. Portland Cement
Pty.; added reserves, £311,057 .. 394,833
1930.. 41,057 131 p.c. =102,628 333,262
Premiums on shares, £6O . . . . 333,322
1931.. 41,687 8 p.c. = 60,820 314,189
Premiums on shares, £l9 . . . . 314,208
1932.. 7,665 4 p.c. = 30,411 291,462
Seeing trouble ahead in the industry, this
co. (the works are at Fyansford, Vie.) and
Kandos (N.S.W.) decided to go on the
market together at the end of 1929. Each
transformed itself into a holding eo., taking
a million paids in Australian Portland Pty.,
which became the operating concern. For
the year to Nov. 30 the pty. paid no div.,
though it earned a profit (amount not men-
tioned) and a div. is expected.
Thus Australian Cement’s gross earnings
(£12,160) were £38,133 lighter last year—
the £12,160 came mainly from interest and
commissions (the co. acts as managing
agent for the pty. in Vic. and Tas.). Enough
profit remained to show but 1 p.c. on capi-
tal as against 5.5, 5.4, 18.2, 12.6 and 14.5
p.c. back to 1927. Still, 4 p.c. was paid;
three-quarters of it from the special reserve
account, reducing it to £144,625. The figure
was originally £311,057, being capital profit
on transfer of assets to the pty. in 1929.
However, the end of dividends from this
special source is in sight. At Nov. 30 in-
vestments figured at £1,022.438; debtors’
balances, £10,S81; cash, £36,725, most of
which would be absorbed by last year’s final
distribution. There was only £3094 coming
to creditors.
The fact is that the industry is in an un-
sound condition, being heavily overcapital-
ised. The output for the Commonwealth
reached its peak in 1927, when sales (732,600
tons) were no more than about 69 p.c. of
the total plant capacity. East year sales
had dropped to 255,000 tons, or 21 p.c. of
total plant capacity. Capitalising plant at
£5 per ton of capacity, this means that,
whereas £1,640,000 of the capital invested
in the industry was not earning anything in
1927, no less than £4,796,000 was on the
unemployed list last year. The position is
worst in N. S. Wales, where the 1932 sales
were 31 p.c. below the previous year’s; all
other States showed an increase. The N. S.
Wales output was no more than 14 p.c. of
what that State’s plants in the aggregate
could produce; in Vic. and Tas. combined
the year’s production was about 30 p.c. of
the aggregate capacity.
It is plain, therefore, that this co.’s past
performances cannot be accepted as a guide
to the future. A sound financial position,
technical efficiency and a good sales organ-
isation do not mean all they should if pro-
duction cannot be maintained at a satisfac-
tory level. It is with a view to getting a
bit more of the trade in N. S. Wales that
the board proposes to put up new works
near Sydney—it apparently has all the plant
it wants for the purpose.
What the future holds for those in the
industry it is difficult to say. The Cement
Manufacturers’ Association is doing splen-
did work in widening the uses of cement,
but demand depends largely upon expendi-
ture on public works, and this pi’omises to
continue much lighter than it used to be.
All that can be said definitely is that the
Australian Portland group is well equipped,
.technically and otherwise, for a struggle.
The market prices this holding co.’s pound
shares at 19s.
Drug Houses of Australia
The idea behind the big merger, for which
IT. G. Mcßoberts was largely responsible, was
to eliminate useless overhead and waste-
ful competition in the industry, as well
as to gain advantages on the buying side,
etc. But before the new organisation could
get into its stride, slump, exchange and the
tariff made profitable trading by the sub-
sidiaries very difficult. Thus for the two
years to June 30 last Drug Houses received
enough to pay only 2 p.c. and 2£ p.c.
respectively.
When the books closed paid capital figured
at £2,336,506; there was £1166 coming to
sundry creditors and £110.524 to the subsidi-
aries and their shareholders. Shares in other
cos. appeared at £2,416,499; cash, etc., £243;
the subsidiaries owed the holding co. £28,070
in respect of divs. and £23,526 on account
of trading assets. The preliminary exes,
capitalised amounted to £9960.
Excluding an unexplained reduction of
£15,707 in their reserves, the aggregate trad-
ing figures of the pups for the year to June
30, 1932, showed a spring of £19,850 in net
earnings (£67,568). which were 3.9 p.c. on
capital as against 3 p.c. in 1931. After pay-
ing Felton, Grimwade and Duerdins’ pref.
div. (£6000), £63,921 was passed on to Drug
Houses, reducing the pups’ reserves to
£318,274, subject to £145,580 of goodwill.
Their paid capitals aggregated £1,771,797.
To meet liabilities amounting to £761,141
there were debtors’ balances (£941,553),
stocks (£775.105) and investments and cash
(£285,249), totalling £2,008,207. Fixed assets
appeared at £734,495; goodwill, £145,580.
Debtors’ balances is the doubtful item.
Still, with the changed outlook, and now that
the operating cos. are to give more atten-
tion to the manufacture of their own re-
quirements, earnings should improve; and
furtner savings in overhead are expected.
The market prices Drug Houses’ pound
shares at 16s. The return at that figure is
3.1 p.c.- on a 21 p.c. div. basis, or 5 p.c. on
a 4 p.c. distribution On the basis of figures
at the close of last accounts, the subsidiaries
would need to send along an average of 5-j-
-p.c. on their combined capitals to enable
Drug Houses to pay 4 p.c.
Australian Drug (Investments), Ltd.
It used to .be the Australian Drug Co.,
Ltd., a steady 10 percenter for 17 years to
the close of accounts in 1929. But the change
in trading conditions and the eo.’s property
investments had completely altered the out-
look ; and in August, 1930, the old co. merged
its main trading interests with 11 other
drug concerns in one big holding co., Drug
Houses of Australia, Ltd.
Holders of the 62,775 7£ p.c. cum. profs,
and 162,225 ords. in the old co. received
similar scrip, share for share, in this invest-
ment co. At June 30 last its assets consisted
of freehold, £276,467; investments. £169,026
(ord. shares in the Drug Houses Co. at face
value) ; debtors, etc., £1648. There was
£164,677 coming to creditors, chiefly the bank,
which holds a mortgage over the freehold
and a lien on the investments.
During the last term Drug Houses sent
along £2535 in divs-. (= 1-J p.c.: another 1 p.c.
has been paid since the books closed), and
rentals turned in £16.471. Of the lot £2434
was profit; that was £1207 short of a year’s
pref. requirements (£3641, or 5.8 p.c.'after
allowing for the statutory cut), so both lots
of shareholders went hungry again. Prospects
depend mainly upon a lift in revenue from
rentals and divs. For the last two years the
returns from Australia House, near Wynyard
station, have been affected by work on the
city railway, now practically complete. Still,
the drop in rentals, the debt and taxation
mean a low return from the property. A net
return of 2 p.c. from the freeholds, together
with a 5 p.c. div. from Drug Houses, would
enable this investment co. to pay a year's
div. on its own profs, (there will be three
years’ payments, approximately 3s. lid. per
share, coming to them at the close of next
accounts) and show a shade over 6 p.c. on
the ord. capital.
But the market notes the debt, etc., and
prices the prefs. at 14s. 6d. and the
ords. at Bs. Allowing for goodwill, etc., in
the subsidiaries, the net tangible cover is
£3 17s. 2d. prefs.. and 14s. 9d. ords.
The D.I.C.
All Maoriland knows the Drapery and
General Importing Co. of New Zealand, Ltd.,
by those initials.
, Dividends
p ref- To Re- Re-
Aug., Loss. 6 p.c. Ol d. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ a
1921.. 5,314 14,784 Mil 34,400
Reserve additions, £lO9 .. .. .. 34 509
Profit.
1922.. 19,242 15,000 5 p.c. = 8,855 29,890
Premiums on new shares, £ll .. .. 29,907
1923.. 37,785 15,000 7 p.c. = 12,405 10,380 40’287
Reserve additions, £149 .. .. .. 40,430
1924.. 42,823 15,000 9 p.c. = 15,977 11,846 52,282
1925.. 51.155.15,000 10 „ ~17,781 18,374 70,656
Premiums on new shares, £6B .. .. 70,724
1926.. 48.982.15,000 10 p.c. = 17,802 16,180 86,904
1927.-46,905 15,000 10 „ „ 17,827 14,078 100 982
1928.. 42.790.15,000 10 „ „ 17,852 9,938 110,920
Profit on sale investments, £2580.. .. 113,500
1929.. 45,027 15,000 10 p.c. = 17,878 12,149 125,649
1930.. 15,000 10 „ „ 17,918 4,529 130,178
1931. .19,371 15,000 5 „ „ 8,976 125,573
1932.. 2,974 15,000 Nil 113,547
The year to the end of August last began in
Maoriland, as it did in Australia, with the
business barometer low and falling fast;
and this co. had £185,042 worth of stocks
(book value) on its shelves. Moreover, it had
not long completed its new seven-storeyed
shop, with frontages to three streets, in Wel-
lington, and additions and alterations had
been made at headquarters (Dunedin), and
at Christchurch and Wanganui. The co.
went_ a bit into debt to finance the outlay,
and it is not easy to parn even interest on
funds represented by new bricks and mortar
these days, as Australian experience has
shown.
Many lines had to be cleared at cut rates
to avoid losses and make room for newer and
cheaper ones, which lighter purses have
brought into fashion; also, exchange in-
creased landed costs and further narrowed
margins. After taking stocks into account
at £10,542 below the 1931 figure, last year’s
gross earnings (£196,703) fell away £58,969,
of which £42,612 was offset by savings in
exes. (£193,833). Still, the net result was
£12,026 short of the year’s pref. div. So the
ords. went hungry, as they did in the short,
sharp slump of 1921; for the intervening
decade they averaged 8.6 p.c., with wide
margins.
The market prices the pound prefs. at par
and the 10s. paid ords. at Bs. 6d. At these
prices the return is 5 p.c. and 5.9 p.c.
respectively on a 5 p.c. div. basis. Of the
£430,922 of paid capital £250,000 is 6 p.c.
pref. money, but the div. has been reduced by
iinancial emergency legislation to 5 p.c. for
the next three years. An all-round 5 p.c.
would call for 3.9 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) as at August
20 last.
The effect of the building programme, etc.,
upon finances is seen in this comparison of
balance-sheet figures :
1920. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Pref. capital. . £236,795 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital.. 117,792 179,337 179,564 180,922
Liabilities . . 215,707 285,700 280,271 259,745
Premises, plant,
etc. . . 134,834 587,393 574,167 561,270
Stocks . . 298,073 180,944 185,042 174,500
Book debts . . 91,801 99,350 86,435 69,621
Investments and
cash . . *176,115 6,046 6,241 6,323
Last year £12,894 more was written off than
was spent on fixed assets, which represented
69.1 p.c. of the balance-sheet total as
against 34.7 p.c. five years ago. That means
a lively turnover if satisfactory results are
to be won. Much will depend upon the ex-
tent to which overhead can be further re-
strained, and upon shrewd buying and clean
stocks. When the books closed, the debt
(down £20.526 during the year) exceeded
more or less liquids, including stocks, by
£9301 —the slip was £6748 over the twelve-
month.
Australian Mont de Piete (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 3477 10 p.c. = 3121 356 3,998
1923.. 3348 10 „ „ 3296 52 4,050
Net Depreciation Fund, £719 . . 4,769
1924.. 4346 10 p.c. = 3934 412 5,181
Property reserve, £9907 . . 15,088
1925.. 4580 10 p.c. = 3996 584 15,672
1926.. 5808 121 „ „ 4995 813 16,485
1927.. 5504 121 „ „ 4995 509 16,994
1928.. 5626 121 „ „ 4995 631 17,025
Added property reserve, £14,281. . 31,90 G
1929.. 4618 111 p.c. = 4495 123 32,029
1930.. 2457 91 ~ ,; 3796 30,720
Written off stocks, £3148 . . 27,572
1931.. 4230 10 p.c. = 3996 234 27,806
1932.. 5360 121 „ „ 4995 365 28,171
The boom in city real estate enabled this
little Melbourne eo. —its bread and butter is
the three-ball business, and has been for over
half a century—to put on a bit of fat. To
help finance its property purchases the board
had supplemented the £39,960 of share capital
with £51,321 from mortgagees and depositors
at the close of accounts in- 1928. This was
good business while prices continued to soar;
doubts were what would happen when con-
ditions changed. Through good luck or good
management, tin l eo. unloaded before the
break, wiping out the mortgage and repaying
most of the deposits ; and reserves benefited
by £14,281 from profits on the deals.
Last year the co. bought part of the old
Colonial Bank freehold on the corner of
Elizabeth and Little Collins streets. The
price was not mentioned, but £44,372 was
added to the freehold item, and there was
£35,400 coming to the vendor when the books
closed; —
1924. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Deposits .. ..£14,810 £5,290 £4,240 £9,040
Mortgages, etc. .. 34,390 —. 35,400
Sundry creditors.. 15,233 781 701 793
Total liabilities. £64,433 £6,071 £4,941 £45,233
Advances, stocks, etc. 40,554 64,185 59,022 54,523
Freeholds, etc. . . 62,084 8,344 8,283 52,655
Liquid assets . . 8,935 6,020 7,400 8,683
Nothing is said as to the terms on which the
balance of the purchase money is payable;
appearances are that interest on the debt
may affect the rate of distribution, which has
always been fairly close up to earnings.
Last year’s gatherings (£21,694) were
£2496 better, despite a shrinkage of £4499
in the book value of advances, etc. Exes.
(£16,334) took only £366 of the increase,
leaving the net result at 13.7 p.c. on capital
as against 10.5, 6.2, 11.5 and 14 p.c. back
to 1928. So a2l p.c. bonus was sent out
with the 10 p.c. div., making the average
distribution for the last decade 11 p.c. The
co. obviously has a snug little business, and
the scrip, which is covered by 345. sd. in net
tangibles, is tightly held.
Home Provident Association, Ltd.
This co.. promoted by C. A. Parrett, set
up in Sydney in 1925 to lend on 20-year
mortgages on house and land property.
Borrowers were to repay the loan at the
rate of ss. per week for each £lOO lent. The
payment included interest, principal and
premium on life assurance for the decreas-
ing amount of the loan. Presently the sub-
division of real estate and the discounting
of mercantile securities were included in
the co.’s activities, which spread to Mel-
bourne, Adelaide and Brisbane. At June
(Continued on page 16.)


hmoke
WMMmM
lllliiiii
H
fmmm
'■
B
£-V;'-;
'"•PiSSS
.<£§ssg
ISsSS
r.^
m
pm
%
m
mmrn
mm.
mmm
I
HHI
QUALITY
and
VALUE
m
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
A BDULLA Virginia Leaf Cigarettes offer
■ you something more than the very best
of cigarettes, made from only the highest
grade of imported Virginia tobacco. They
offer you true value, coupled with a name
renowned the world over as a guarantee of
the finest quality.
lilllllii
mt.
iiliw
mmrnm
mm s:
10
20
4
9:
s\ 6
m
%
n
m
00
)0
Wm
iwl
t
fiof
w
CORK. TiP P ED Cl GAR ET TIES


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & ConusoN, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt
* * * rfggp
Tailings, 1000 tons, and Slimes, 5000 tpns7: .con-
taining gold £12,000, with arsenic and antimony,
for. sale, £2OO. Apply “Miner,” e/o. this Office.
—Advt.
Win. Fowles, of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only victoiia s greatest refined hotel values
thus: Single Rooms
from 4/6 day;
Double from 7/6:
and meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in Tearooms
or Cafe, and Room
with break f a st
from 6/6 Single or
11/6 Double all
less 10 p.c. if stay-
ing one week or
more; and complete
Board from 10/6
day or 65/- week
(both net) ; but,
ŵ
in addition, if yon motor. Win Fowles
garages your ear free of charge in the hotel
garage, next door, during your entire stay.
Such value service and convenience is not
obtainable at any other hotel in Mel-
bourne city. Please write for tariff card,
which gives all information, or state your
requirements and we will gladly quote.
Special rates for clubs, conferences, families
etc. The Manager, Carlyon’s Hotel, Mel-
bourne. is sufficient address for your letter.
REFRACTORY
GOLD ORES
We specialise in working out most suitable and
rioEc miCa P r . ocesses for successful treatment of all
ORES cototammg GOLD.
Mine-owners, Managers, Operators are invited to send
us samples and full details of their problems.
u j A ,rS CTOR LEGGO & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne,
lelegrams; Victor Leggo, Melbourne.
Your Altered
Financial Position
will probably necessitate your making a new will. If so, appoint
as your Executor and Trustee, Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited), a corporate body wbich has had forty-six years*
experience in the administration of Estates and which can never
die or leave the country. Write or call for free explanatory
Booklet.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Copland Lethbridge, Managing Director. H. V. Douglass, Manager.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Persona! Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
30, 1932, the £144,165 of paid capital (it
is in 40,712 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 106.712
ords.), together with £lOl4 coming .to out-
siders, was invested in loans, freeholds, etc.
(£113,513) and equipment (£784). (Good-
will stood at £2555 and the p. and 1. debit
at £30,710.
For a while profits were recorded and 8
p.c. on the pref. and 10 p.c. on the ord.
capital was distributed; but for the last
three years the co. has been losing money.
Revenue has fallen from £23,419 in 1928
to £4514 last year, when the drop was £1337.
After paying administrative charges and set-
ting aside aside something for contingencies
the loss, was £12,967, or £7449 more than
the previous year’s. Not only has unemploy-
ment and the statutory cut in interests and
rents diminished the takings, but contracts
for £11,537 were cancelled last year, and the
interest thereon lost, owing to buyers elect-
ing to annul their purchases under the
Moratorium Act. Recent amendments to
this Act may give a little relief, but the can-
cellation clause remains, and until the Act
runs out it is difficult to say exactly where
shareholders are.
On the basis of the published figures, the
book value of the net tangible cover for the
prefs. was £2 16s. 2d., and for the ords.
13s. 9d. The scrip is not listed.
Primary Producers’ Bank (In Liq.)
Thus far the liquidators have done good
work. They took control in September,
1931. During the following 12 months they
got in £857,241, without sacrificing securi-
ties, and distributed £747,737 of it —£167 421
to preferential creditors and the other
£580,316 to ordinary creditors, chiefly
depositors, who have received 10s. in the £
on claims for which they were entitled to
rank in the liquidation. A further 2s. 6d. in
the £, making 12s. 6d. in all, is to be paid
at the end of this- month. It is anticipated
that the proceeds of the remaining assets,
when realised, will not only be enough to
satisfy creditors in full, but also to provide
a part return of capital to shareholders.
I hey can thus heave a deep sigh of relief,
for they are liable to contribute up to £4
per share, should need be. .
The position at the date of liquidation
compares with that a year later as follows:
Liabilities.
„ , , 28/9/’3l. 28/9/’32.
Secured creditors (mortgage) £40,000 £42,605
Preferential claims—
Commonwealth Bank . . 146,451
Sundry creditors .'. . . 7,064 50
Depositors, etc. ((ess £38,989
offset) ... .. .. 1,190,305 598,767
Contingent creditors.. .. 14,800 6,092
Total liabilities .. £1,358,620t £604,909)
Assets.
Notes, coin, Consols .. £130,341 £8
Liquidator’s current account 54,113
Due from other banks .. 154,818 1,860 •
„ from customers . . 1,404,639 908,554
„ from Others . . .. 18,662
Premises ( less mortgage) .. 83,169 75,674
Equipment 19,261 9,426
£1,810,890 £1,049,635
Less reserve .. .. 78,594 78,594
Total assets .. ..£1,732,296 £971,041
Apparent surplus . . . . 373,676* 366,132*
*Subject to realisation and costs of liquidation.
fExcluding mortgage.
Paid capital is £439,402, of which £439,380
is so-called preferential and £22 ordinary.
The book value of the surplus at Sept. 28
last was equal to 16s. Bd. per pound of pref.
capital. But the outstanding advances com-
prise those which will be the most difficult to
collect, and the premises are not expected to
fetch their book value. The reserve of £78,594
will certainly not cover anticipated losses,
the liquidators say. At the moment it is
not possible to form a reliable estimate as
to what amount shareholders will ultimately
receive. Much will depend upon the con-
tinuance of good seasons and the course of
prices. Meanwhile, the moratorium promises
to make the liquidation a protracted busi-
ness. In any case, many of the securities
would require careful nursing if the best
results are to be obtained.
The copper position is complicated, and
the future of price!?, obscure. World produc-
tion for 1932 has been estimated at 1.000,060
short tons, compared with an average of
1,989,000 tons during 1928-30. But stocks
are heavy (there are 650,000 tons in U.S.A.,
140,000 tons in Europe and 23,000 tons in
Britain), and they will need to be worked
down, or consumption will need to greatly
expand, before the price can be expected to
improve much. Empire production of copper
for 1932 was 212,000 tons—it came chiefly
from Rhodesia and Canada—and consump-
tons, leaving a surplus of
02,000 tons. Russia has a duty of 50 p c
on foreign copper, U.S.A. 2d. per pound and
Japan Id. per pound, thus limiting the free
markets for absorption of surplus Empire
production and U.S.A. exports chiefly to Ger-
many, France and Belgium, all countries in
which consumption has been greatly reduced.
The question of a duty of 2d. per pound on
non-Empire electrolytic into Britain, as sug-
gested at Ottawa, is still under considera-
tion.
f/ e Clwydd, once the most prosperous
or ail jN.S.W. western collieries, is still idle:
and the co. reports for the past half-year an
wpTwnni ° nl -', f I B1 ’ while general exes,
were £2OOl. Sundry creditors (nearly all
bank overdraft) stand at £52,802; and,
apart from about £3500 in odds and ends!
ail the CO S resources are in the two collier-
les and the brickworks. The new colliery
n at £l34 > 022 - !t was the unex-
pectedly heavy cost of developing this mine
which got. the co. so deep in difficulties that
failed Scl * eme for £ ettin S it out has thus far
* * * *
Peninsula Mines, Ltd., has mapped an ex-
tensive programme on the Batavia, Coen and
Yarraden goldfields, Cape York Peninsula. At
natavia, the wash in the Hidden Treasure
has returned 2oz. to the ton; the Golden
Casket crushed 1500 tons for OOOoz. • also,
efforts are being made to locate the continua-
tion of the rich lead found in the New Year’s
Gift and Double Chance. At Coen, the co
has taken a lease of the Great Northern,
where a 00-ton-a-day crushing plant is to
bo erected. Here 40,000 tons of lldwt. ore
is ready. Only one reef has been worked, and
this, from 1893 to 1916, yielded 49,5920 z.
23,196 tons. The present shaft, down
480tt., is full of water, but the mine is a
dry one. It is proposed to dam the Lankelly
River, and thus conserve 30,000,000 gallons.
,i i j CO ' a ¥° f a ben a lease on the
ii ne j an< i another of 25 acres on
the Savannah, at Yarraden. The Golden
King has been proved for 2200 ft.; in 1906
tbc value of the ore was £4 13s. The Savan-
nah has not been thoroughly prospected, but
the stone is estimated to be worth £6 13s.
per ton. There is 10 head of stamps on the
field.
Bulolo Gold Deposits, Adelaide-controlled,
will presently ask shareholders for another
£12,000. The money is wanted to test the
co.’s newly-acquired areas along Koranga
Creek and the Bulolo River (New Guinea),
and to enlarge the aerodrome. The boring
party is on the spot, and native labor is
being recruited.
* # * *
At. Mt. Coolon (Q.) three winzes below
the 300 ft. (bottom) level are in ore averag-
ing 455. per ton (gold at 84s. per oz.). The
main shaft, which is not being sunk on the
lode, is now 118 ft. below this level. A short
crosscut to the lode will be necessary, and
driving along the lode to connect with the
winzes will follow immediately. The 300 ft.
level is being extended in the hope of picking
up further ore-shoots. The east end is 618 ft.
from the shaft, the last 70 being in unpay-
able material.
* Hs $ j|:
Badgery Creek, Innisfail district (N.Q.),
was worked 37 years ago, chiefly by Chinese,
who won a lot of alluvial, but subsequently
lost the run of the gold. Old hands contend
that there is a lost terrace between the John-
stone and Russell Rivers. Some believe that
the recent find at the Golden Gate is the
first clue to its re-discovery. Crocodiles
swarm in the creeks in the locality.
* * * *
The Hercules new reef below the 1620 ft.
level has yielded to date 71660 z. from 3355
tons, and still looks well. The ore in the
north drive has greatly improved, but the
best values are in the south drive, where
some rich erushings have recently been taken
out. Preparations are beiug made to open
up the old reef on the 440 ft. level, from
which tributors lately obtained good results.
Since August, 1932, the co. has paid 11s.
per share in divs.
* * * %
A start has been made to put down a
100 ft. pumping shaft on the Guildford allu-
vial area, Castlemaine (Vic.). The main
shaft, used over 25 years by an English co.,
is down 200 ft.; it is in' excellent repair and
will be used for hauling. The wash is 4ft.
6in. thick.
* * * *
Hillbricks New Concord has been formed
to open up the old Concord line of reef
again. This reef runs between Newstead and
Maldon (Vic.), is 2ft. to 4ft. wide, and has
assayed up to per ton. Water was a
serious difficulty years ago.
* * * *
More than 2000 acres, embracing the
Davis and other mines, have been pegged on
the Steiglitz field (Vic.). The Davis, dis-
covered in 1855, was very rich in the upper
levels, but no work' has been done for the
last 60 years.
* * * *
A fire recently destroyed the Edwards
calcining plant at the Mt. Bisclioff Co.’s mill.
But the main portion of the plant, notv used
on tributors’ ore, was saved.
* * * *
At Humbug Scrub (S. Aus.) Hansel
Mundy has sunk a shaft 40ft. deep in a
strong lode 7ft. wide, carrying fair gold
values and patches of bismuth. Ji m Heb-
bard recommends vigorous development and
the costeening of parallel outcrops. But his-
tory makes it difficult to work up any en-
thusiasm for S. Aus. gold shows.
Westralia topped the score of Australian
gold production last year with 605,561 fine
ounces, an increase of 94,9890 z. compared
with the 1931 yield, which was 94,2030 z.
above that for 1930. The 1933 total is
expected to approach the 700,0000 z. mark.
* * * *
At the Lake View and Star (W.A.) the
pyritie gold concentrate obtained in the flo-
tation section assays 3oz. 15dwt. per ton,
representing a concentration of 10 to 1.
This result has been achieved by the use of
only two flotation reagents. Any improve-
ment in the ratio of concentration means
less concentrate to be roasted, and roasting
is always an expensive operation. It was
the discovery of a new reagent that gave
recoveries! at Wiluna a leg-up.
* * * *
Wiluna has the extensions to the flotation
and roasting sections, to enable 40,000 tons
monthly to be treated, well in hand. The
first of the new crude-oil engines has com-
menced running, and the second is being
elected. A Cottrell electrical precipitator is
being installed at the arsenic plant to collect
the arsenic now being lost up the stack.
* H* *
' During the 12 months ended March 31,
1932, Associated (W.A.) treated 61,618 tons,
averaging 265. sd. a ton, with gold at 84s.
an ounce. Working costs were Is. 3d. higher
at 31s. 5d., the increase being largely due
to the additional charge for water. The
sterling premium on gold was equivalent to
4s. lid. per ton, and Australian/Sterling
exchange to Bs. 6d. per ton, which explains
why tlm co. finished the year with a profit
of £17,337, paid a div. of 6d. per share and
carried forward £2661.
* ❖ *
Star Explorations, a London co. which is
interested in Sons of Gwalia (W.A.), re-
ports a profit of £5465 for the year to June
00, 1932. One-third of its capital has been
invested in tin shares; to raise more, the
co. proposes to offer shareholders 301,583
Is. shares at Is. Id. each. When fully sub-
scribed and paid, these will advance paid
capital to £47,000. The co. was formed in
3930 to re-treat tailings at Boulder.
* * *
Waddington, chairman of Gt.
Boulder Prop., and others are nibbling at
the old Youanme gold mine on the East
Murchison field (W.A.). At least half a
million pounds’ worth of gold has come out
ot this show, but owing to expensive mining
and troublesome ore the London co-. which
formerly worked it was unable to give share-
holders anything. Indeed, the co. died in
debt. However, the enhanced price of gold
and more modern treatment methods may
now enable a different tale to be told
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe’s latest annual accounts
show a profit of £28,950 as against £11,770
for the previous term. The declaration of
a div. is held up pending settlement of the
dispute between the co. and the British
Treasury officials. The co. says that its
dump of tailings is not a mine; the Trea-
sury officials argue that within the meaning
of the Act it is.
* * * *
B H. Prop, is erecting a small treatment
plant on Hannan’s North Extended Kal-
goorhe. Gold won is said to have been
sufficient to pay option expenses and cover
the cost of developing a little ore as well
* * He *
, T^' ll . e , Salvation syndicate, Ora Banda
f W.A.), recently crushed 77 tons, averaging
4Joz. Previous crushiligs, totalling 84 tons
gave an average of 3oz. ’
* * He
Gold ’ formed with a capital of
±oo,oo° to work leases at The Granites has
abandoned the option recently taken ’over
the Balloon King (W.A.).
* * * *
. e Maoriland Government is still con-
sidering the question of granting financial
assistance to local mining cos. to purchase
idle tin dredges in Malaya, many of which
P^ ed dir t cheap at the moment.
Gold dredging in the Dominion has been on
in U £ l " re d nc cd scale of recent years; in
1931 five dredges recovered 11,5000 z
* * * *
At Neavesville, IS miles from Thames
(M.L.), an area of 3000 acres, including an
formation two miles long and
200 ft. wide, was recently pegged. The gold
is finely disseminated through a rhyolite
dyke, but insufficient work has been done
aily Professor James
, ai V ho P ut the average assay value at
345. 6d. per ton, stated that the deposit war-
ranted further investigation.
* * * *
Working two small claims along the Shot-
over River (M.L.), a single miner recently
recovered 4 1 Goz. of gold, worth £2600 The
Shotover feeds the Kawarau, along the
banks of which a lot of activity has followed
the closing of the dam. •
* * * *
Okarito Five Mile Gold Dredging, onerat-
fimo'f S ?E th . Westland (Hi/ g
for the SIX months ended October 1
1932, compared with £8262 for the precod-
ing term. The drop was due to poorer
ground. TJie dredge commenced digging in
August, 1931.
Alluvial areas totalling 4500 acres have
been taken up on the Upper Matakitaki
River, Murchison (M.L.), and boring has
commenced. The wash is said to be suitable
for large-scale dredging.
World production of tin from 1800 to
1932 totals 6,700,000 tons, of which a little
more than 50 p.c. has been won during the
last 20 years. The F.M.S., though compara-
tively late on the scene, has produced 37 p.c.
of the total, Netherlands 18.7 p.c., Bolivia
11.9 p.c., U.K. (Cornwall) 11.2 p.c. and Aus-
tralia 6.1 p.c.
* * * Sf.
Britain has imposed a duty of 10 p.c. on
mica from outside the Empire; yet it is
doubtful whether Empire producers will get
much immediate benefit, owing to the large
stocks of Rhodesian mica held in Eondon.
The price has slumped from 4s. 6di per
pound in 1929 to less than half that figure,
and even best quality is difficult to sell. The
chief field in Australia is in the Hart
Range, whence the crude product is trans-
ported to Adelaide and dressed for market.
Deposits of the stuff also occur near Broken
Hill, at Mt. Isa and in Westralia. Asbestos,
which is found in Westralia, S. Aus. and
Tas., has also been placed on Britain’s 10
p.c. duty list.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Describe the Thayer process for the re-
covery of gold, platinum and osmiridium? —
3916.
The ore is finely crushed and fed into a
small separator with a fast-rotating cylinder,
which forces thei heavy metal particles
against an amalgamated stationary cylinder.
An electric current passes from the rotating
to the stationary cylinder, causing the plati-
num and osmiridium to be held by the mer-
cury. The amalgam is cleaned off periodi-
cally, and the gold and other metals re-
covered. The tailings pass continuously to
waste.
You say (B. 28/12/'32) “Wiluna, with
a maximum output of 1000 tons [of white
arsenic ] in excess of Australia's present
requirements of 2500 tons p.a.".... Does
Wiluna actually put out 3500 tons of
arsenic p.a. ? —3917.
No. The figures refer to potential or
maximum output; the actual outturn
(figures not available) is a small proportion
of this.
BRIEF' ANSWERS.
D.W.: Know of no source from which the infor-
mation is readily obtainable, except the co. itself.
... . A.L.: Yes, but it has thus far been a disaster
as a commercial proposition. .. .A.R.8.: Hold for
a while ; you may be able to swap to better advantage
later L.H.0.: (1) Both principal and interest are
a s safe aa anything of the kind can be these days.
(2) If you want to transfer the money, the present
appears to be a favorable opportunity. (3) Im-
possible to say definitely what will happen in
connection with exchange over the next few years.
Much depends upon the overseas trade balance and
upon political developments R.D.H.: (1)' Recent
developments suggest the very opposite. (2) Holders
of Government paper, mortgages and other fixed-
interest-bearing securities would suffer most. (3)
and (4) They would probably suffer severely, for
reasons just stated. (5) Some form of real pro-
perty, or good industrial scrip. .. .M.G.W.: A specu-
lation with possibilities E.N.H.: The method
of valuing by a low rate of interest locks up
during the early years of a policy sums which would
otherwise become available for distribution; but
it releases them with interest at a later stage. Both
shareholders and policy-holders should, therefore,
welcome such a policy H.G.A.8.: (1) Depends
mainly upon your own business ability. (2) A
well-run smallgoods business in a busy centre ought
to show satisfactory returns, though it may take a
while to build up goodwill, (3) Beware; very
few partnerships turn out satisfactorily
H.P.8.: Hold; it is one of the best gold stocks
on the market.... J.R.M.: We have no record of it.
... . A.H.: Have asked eo. for sheet; will review
when received... .H.L.A.: Write to the Secretary,
N.Z. Perpetual Forests, Kembla Buildings, Margaret-
street, Sydney, and ask if he can find a buyer for
you. The bonds have not an open market.


THE OTHER FELLOW’S MIND.
Is It Such a Bounteous Harvest, After All?
Dear B., —Our “bounteous” harvest off
300 acres yielded 4110 bushels of wheat.
To save expenses our crop was siloed (this
is written at Wellington, N.S.W.), so that,
instead of buying five bales of bags, two
only were purchased, and we beat our
carter down to. Is. a mile per ton. With
our silo scrip in our hands, we have now
called upon the local wheat-buyer, who
offers us 2s. per bushel, or £4ll as the gross
proceeds of our year’s work. From this has
to be taken :
Ploughing and harrowing and sowing .. £lOO
(Actual —no wages allowed.)
Harvesting costs . . . . .. .. 30
Hail insurance (no fire insurance—we took
the risk) .. . . . . . . . . 25
Bags and twine . . . . . . .. 23
Cartage .. .. .. . . . . . . 28
Repairs and maintenance of machinery .. 1C
Bank interest .. .. .. . . .. 75
Total . . . . £291
This left for our storekeeper, dentist, doctor
and whatnot £l2O, or £2 6s. 2d. per week.
Now, all this goes to prove that a “quan-
tity harvest” is not the panacea for a
farmer’s financial ills. Comparatively small
harvests accompanied by good prices mean
much more to the grower than large harvests
with low prices.—Yours, Jtjggum.
Australian Shipping
Dear Bulletin, —“Elless” (B. 2S/12/’32)
asked (1) why did Australian cos. not make
cruises to the islands at Christmas? (2)
Why are old steamers placed in Australian
runs? (3) Why not the same competition
as in pre-war years?
(1) To do this would mean signing on
new articles, which would have to be signed
off at the conclusion of the trip. This would
mean expense. Three months is the mini-
mum for a ship’s article, six months the
maximum. As the days worked would be
holidays, it would mean pay in lieu of time
off: as the rate of wages would be Aus-
tralian, this would mean a very large bill.
English and Australian articles are very
different in regard to pay. To make the
Norfolk Island or Noumea cruise show a
profit, the fare charged by an Australian
co. would have to be much higher than that
of the P. and O. or Orient.
(2) The Manunda and Westralia are new
ships. The Katoomba is 12 years old, but
is very popular with the public. The
Karoola, although 24 years old, is as steady
as a rock in rough weather: I was on her
for four years. The Dimboola is a comfort-
able ship for a sea trip. (“Give a dog a
bad name and it will stick.”) The Ormis-
ton and Orungal are comfortable, too, and
speedy. The Canberra has a large follow-
ing; she is a comfortable and steady ship
in all sorts of weather.
(3) Individual cos. had such a rough
spin from the unions that to amalgamate
was the only course open to combat the
menace. For example, Mcllwraitli Me
Eacharn had the whole fleet tied up in 1923
because they refused to pay any compen-
sation to a man who broke his thumb in
a fight in Port Adelaide, and said he did
it while engaged in his work on board. —
Yours, M. Douglas McF'arlane (late
Karoola).
Wool-selling Charges
Dear Bulletin, —Growers sorely need a
reduction in selling charges; but can the
brokers under existing conditions afford to
make any material concession? Drastic
changes would have to be effected.
Charges at present are misleading and it
is safe, to say the average grower does not
realise the percentage that goes to the broker
from the gross value. Delivery, for one
thing, is not shown on account sales. The
gross earnings of the brokers on the average
value of greasy so far this season are on
the level of 6 per cent. In the lowest month
they equalled 74 per cent. In either case an
unduly heavy impost on business of such
magnitude.
There is crying need for reform in the
selling trade, which is run on lines more
or less a legacy from times when conditions
were vastly different. Labor, materials and
transit were then cheaper and land was not
encumbered with an unduly high value in
relation to its productiveness. An amalga-
mation of old-established houses that are
selling brokers only, as distinct from the
houses with assets frozen in land, would
pave the way for substantial savings both
in capital employed and administrative and
working costs. Money required for advances
against the ensuing clip could be gained
through an organisation on underwriting
lines, the public (holding undoubted secur-
ity) being invited to come in as umder-
writers. The banks dealing direct with such
an organisation could give more liberal terms
than to an individual broker whose resources
in many instances are not only- overtaxed
but merged with matters of which the
bank can have little if any cognisance.
Brokers for their part could function as
hitherto up to the time of seeking an
advance, in respect to which they would,
though finding none of the money, assume
part or all of the liability for any possible
deficiency.-—Yours, T. M.
A Cry from the Track
Dear B., —I’m on the track, camped near
a town reckoned good for the battler. This
morning (Dec. 2S) I had n 0 breakfast—
tucker-bag empty. From 7.30 a.m. till 12
noon I sought casual work from business
men. Result, six flat knockbacks, and the
seventh man shouted me a feed at 12 noon.
I went like a scalded cat all morning seek-
ing work, and did not take an initial No
for an answer. This is the season par excel-
lence for the battler or casual-work seeker,
but I haven’t seen much goodwill towards
men. Ileartlessness is even more marked
amongst larger communities. How is it
possible to get the leaders of the world to
think along international and altruistic
lines, economically speaking, without a fun-
damental change of heart? —Yours etc.. Doc.
A Bushman Shows How
Dear Bulletin, — In company with a
journalistic colleague, I decided to spend
portion of my annual holidays in a trek
from Wentworth Falls to Moss Vale via
.Tenolan and Wombeyan Caves. On the third
day out we found ourselves bushed in a bliz-
zard on top of Mount Werung, to the east
of the Abercrombie River. As we were
miles from the nearest point of civilisation
we commenced to blame each other for sug-
gesting a walking tour, when the benevolent
face of a whiskered bushman confronted us
with an invitation to stay the night in his
hut. We agreed unanimously.
Then the hospitable and self-contained
recluse of 70 summers—he knew no winters —-
.showed us what just one isolated man could
do. He gathered from his fruit and vege-
table garden an all-embracing variety of
food, and produced a dinner and breakfast
that would satisfy the most fastidious gor-
mand. Admittedly porterhouse steak was
as scarce as ice in Hades, but even this
meat deficiency would have been rectified had
we permitted the old chap to take out his
gun on the following morning to get a
rabbit for us. Incidentally, our host’s name
was Moate. Every couple of months he re-
ceived a sack of flour and some butter
from a farm on the Abercrombie, but apart
from this outside assistance he was “a self-
contained community”—for all practical pur-
poses.
What Moate could do as an isolated indi-
vidual could be accomplished more economi-
cally and efficiently by an aggregation of
Moates, Coates and Poates at present twid-
dling their thumbs in unemployment, except-
ing on days when it is necessary for them
to go for their dole coupons.
The case adds further weight to your con-
tention that unemployment in Australia is
quite unnecessary.—Yours, M. ,T. M.
To Save the Farmer
Dear Bulletin, —“Polloi” (B. 2S/12/’is2)
belongs to the large number of citizens who
don’t know who is keeping them. He attri-
butes the farmers’ disabilities to (1) the
inflated prices agreed to be paid for land.
Seeing that not one farmer in five has been
able to pay any interest at all for the past
four years, the price of the land hardly
affects the position. Hundreds whose pro-
perties were unencumbered four years ago,
and who have lived with the utmost care,
have gone far back financially through pro-
ducing wheat and wool at a cost higher
than they are selling for. (2) The farmers’
“improvidence in the years of high prices.”
The farmers’ alleged extravagance (i.e., the
full exercise of their purchasing power) is
the only factor which
creates business for
the country - town
storekeeper and the
city factory. Until
the farmers’ income is
enough to pay all their
working expenses and
leave some surplus to
provide them with
purchasing power,
country business men
mu s t continue to-
war d s bankruptcy,
and city industries
must continue partly
closed and thousands
of good men remain
unemployed. Until the
producing industries
are paying their way
and a bit better, “Pol-
loi’s” own investments
are waste paper. If
it were not for con-
tinued inflation by
bank-financed Govern-
ment and private defi-
cits. he would soon
realise it.
The only sound and
honest way out is
deflation of all in-
vested capital to the
same extent as the
capital directly in-
vested in primary pro-
duction has been de-
flated. Possibly the
only equitable method*
null prove to be de-
valuation of the Aus-
tralian £ so that the
primary producer will
receive sufficient in
Australian money to
pay all the extortions
which now make up
his costs of produc-
tion. Australia, with
its small community,
its huge export sur-
plus and its capacity
for being self - con-
tained, has the sim-
plest reconstruction
problem in the world.
If- we carry on with
o u r Micawber - like
policy of waiting for
some unlikely recovery
in OYersea prices (and
to carry our present
load of overhead capi-
tal w T ould necessitate
recovery to 1924-25
wool and wheat price
levels), and if we con-
tinue to create a
spurious “i mprove-
ment” by methods of
pure inflation, the
whole structure must
crash. Then we shall
be lucky if we can
effect any reconstruc-
tion —our more likely
fate is Bolshevism. —
Your s, F. L. W.
(S.A.),
Land Ownership
Dear Bulletin, —
The land .speculator is
probably the biggest
menace man has ever
allowed to grow up in
his midst, and must
be eliminated. Government must make it
impossible for anyone to make profits by
buying and selling land; and the only way
to do this is through Government ownership.
This needn’t imply socialism and the cut-
ting out of the personal incentive. All land
would be available on leasehold; and as occu-
piers could never be ejected, provided the
rent was paid, they’d have the same motive
for making improvements and doing their
utmost. No objection could be offered to
their willing the leasehold to any successor.
As true values rose and fell, influenced by
the building of railways, etc., rents would
move up or down, but it would rest solely
with the occupier whether he stayed or
went. He could never sell out at a boom
period, leaving the next comer to struggle
along under an inflated capital charge. He’d
get the value of buildings and improve-
ments, assessed by an impartial tribunal,
but not one penny profit on the land. The
land is the people’s, and all so-called free-
holds were in the first place merely stolen
from the community.
If such a system were working to-day the
unemployed could be supplied with land at
nominal rentals, cockies who bought a few
years ago at outrageous prices would, be a
lot happier, and the non-producing specu-
lator, buying his blocks and waiting for
time to bring him the unearned increment,
would vanish.—Yours, T. P. B. (Vic.).
Make the Boy Farm-minded
Dear B., —Enthusiasts in Brisbane are de-
vising means of getting boys jobs on the
land, and “making the city boy farm-minded.”
The State is commencing a school to teach
the rudiments of farming at the Uni-
versity estate at St. Lucia ; the New Settlers’
League is setting out to do for Queensland
lads what it has for years been doing for
immigrant boys ; the Salvation Army has a
farm-training school; now Archbishop Duhig
has announced that the Catholic Church will
make an appeal from all its pulpits on one
Sunday to farmers throughout the State to
take city boys and turn them into farmers.
The flaw in the scheme is that the farmers
need as much help as the boys.
Last year I attended a conference in
Bundaberg, called by the Rotary Club, to
consider this very matter of solving the boy
problem. We secured the offer of a piece of
land, with barracks for the lads to live in.
We could have obtained implements, horses
or tractors, and skilled guidance. We fell
down on the question of what the boys were
to grow.
We will have to revise our methods. In-
stead of trying to make city boys farm-
minded we will have to make the farmers
farm-minded. At present they are not. Our
canegrowers. dairymen, • wheatgrowers. fruit-
growers, and so on specialise in the produc-
tion of one commodity, and if anything
happens to the market or there is a crop
failure, many are ruined. The canefarmer
or wheatgrower rarely has a cabbage patch,
and many do not even keep fowls, a pig or
a cow. in Queensland at the moment there
are many farmers actually getting rations,
not because they have had a drought, but
because their one crop failed.
It is possible, too, that the farmer will
have to become more of a manufacturer than
he is to-day. In Holland the famous Dutch
cheeses which find a ready sale on all the
markets of the world are made on the farms.
The Queensland farmer should preserve
fruits and vegetables for his own use and
for sale elsewhere, or manufacture jams or
other commodities. H'e should cure his own
bacon and ham, raise his own veal and corn
his own beef. If the one-crop men did this
we might some day see upon our millions of
acres of idle virgin land a community of
real farmers that would be well off for food
and creature comforts even if, through the
temporary failure of the market, they might
be short of money. And in the farm schools
it should be stressed that the really efficient
farmer is the man who gets the greatest pro-
portion of his family’s needs from his own
land. —Yours, Dong Steel (Q.).
The Australian Boy
Dear B., —What’s wrong with the Aus-
tralian boy? I’ve lately tried three for farm
work and they’ve chitcked-in the job just
when they felt fed-up—no notice, no con-
sideration for the employer. Many a farmer
can’t pay a man’s wages now, and would
rather have a youth on that account; but,
as good, steady men will work for youth’s
pay, you’ve really got no choice, in view of
the attitude of juvenile workers. —Yours,
Silen.
K,
Let Them Have a Taste
Dear B., —Instead of trying to get Euro-
pean nations to sign an agreement not to
use aerial gasbombs in the next war, the
quickest way to disarmament —and the
cheapest—is to encourage them to use every
ghastly agent possible. If politicians and
other warmongers knew that they were going
to get a taste of the horrors that combatants
have to put up with, they’d pause with the
pen in the air before appending signatures
that meant the opening of hostilities. I'm
not a fire-eater. I had four years of it.
That’s why I’m for the horrors every, time,
and let the civilians have a taste. It’s
the cheapest and easiest way—not to stop
war, because that can’t be done, but to make
it less probable.—Yours. Owen Morgan.
ON THE SHEEP’S BACK.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Our Miss Gibbs”
Koval Gilbert and Sullivan
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal ~ “Waltzes from Vienna”
.State Movies and Talkies
♦
A Glossary of the Stage
Compiled by the Sundry Showman for
the use of talkie patrons who might acci-
dentally stray into a “legitimate” theatre.
“To take what is coming to him.”
Acts.—Sections into which a play is
divided so that the cast may have three
or four curtain calls after each.
Acting.—The art of sending an audience
to sleep.
Acting Area. —It measures one square
yard in Art Theatres.
Actor. —These are of two schools, the
old and the new. Old-school actors ask for
two lumps of sugar in their tea in the tone
of Salome demanding John the Baptist’s
head. The new-schoolers ask for John’s
head as if they were referring to the two
lumps of sugar.
Amateurs. —Charity covers the multitude
of their sins.
Aside.—Used unofficially when the hero-
ine “dries up” (q.v.) and the hero calls
her a female dog; officially at stages
in the play where everybody save the speaker
is supposed to be stone deaf.
Auditorium.—That part of the theatre
reserved for hand-squeezing and the con-
sumption of peanuts.
Backdrop.—A painted cloth dropped
across the back of the scene. If a view of
the Blue Mountains (N.S.W.), it may be
used to represent the Rockies, the Andes,
the Himalayas, the Grampians or the Tyro-
lese Alps.
. Ballerina.—A polite term for a chorus-
girl. In England they marry into lihe peer-
age. In Australia they just marry.
BaLlet.—The reason for the popularity
of the front row of the stalls. Usually all
save one are out of step.
Blackout.—When all the lights on the
stage are switched off. Principally used for
bedroom scenes.
Box Office.—Where you get your money
back. Try it and see.
Broad Comedy.— You haven’t got to think
to laugh.
Burlesque.— I The only way which “East
Lynne” should be played.
Call. —When an actor or author is called
before the house to take what is coming to
him.
Call Board.—A notice-board upon which
a tragedian advertises the loss of his false
teeth.
Chorus.—lt’s supposed t 0 sing, but its
legs are more important.
Cast.—Actors and actresses are cast
(which means thrown) into their parts.
Hence collectively they are called “the cast.”
Comedian.—A person who tells you the
jokes you read in “Tit-bits” in 1901.
Comedienne.—Something as scarce as
snakes in Ireland, but that doesn’t prevent
the copious use of the title.
Critics.—Gentlemen who are very good
judges of the quality of the house-manager’s
whisky.
Cue. —When an actor misses his cue the
rest of the cast automatically become speech-
less (possibly with rage).
Curtain Call.—Provided in order that
the audience may be impressed by the num-
ber and magnificence of the floral harps and
boxes of chocolates showered on the cast by
unknown enthusiasts. It’s just as well
they re unknown.
Curtain-raiser.—A play or other per- •
formance, usually rotten, which precedes a
show that would otherwise end at 9.45.
“Time for two Corona Coronas.”
Deadheads.—The reason for most of the
first-night applause.
Dialogue.—Something those in the back
stalls can’t hear.
Director.— The person who hogs all the
publicity in a repertory theatre society.
Dramatist. An outsider. His name is
printed in the smallest type on the pro-
gramme. 1
Dress Rehearsal.—A good one is said
to mean a bad first night and vice versa.
it is extraordinary how many good dress
rehearsals there are.
Dressing the House.—Distribution of
passes to people sure to attend any free
performance. Resorted to in cases of plays
with a Serious Purpose.
Dry Up.—What happens to the heroine
when she begins to wonder whether the
wealthy-looking knut in the O.P. D.O. box
will ask her out to supper.
Expressionism.—A method of writing,
acting or producing a play so that nobody
can grasp what it is about.
Farce. A play principally concerned
with women’s underclothes.
Fireproof Curtain.—Useful to protect
the cast from the wrath of the audience.
wc e °nt of House.—The auditorium (q.v.).
\v here the performing fleas dine.
Gag.—An idiotic jest made by a comedian
when he forgets his lines.
Green-room.—A room where the actors
congregate to praise themselves.
House.—The number of persons in the
audience, always counted by one of the
actors through a peephole in the curtain.
Ingenue.—An actress in her seventies
who plays a young girl’s part. -
Interval.—Time for a Capstan. At an
amateur show, time for two Corona Coronas.
Juvenile.—An actor in his seventies who
plays a young man’s part. See also Ingenue.
Lead.—To play “lead” is to collar all the
best lines.
Low Comedy.—Sort of thing grandma
might enjoy.
Make-up.—The art of sticking on a false
moustache so that it will not fall off.
Matinee.—A performance at which re-
duced prices are charged and Gems of Scot-
land are played by the orchestra.
“OUR MISS GIBBS,” AT SYDNEY HER MAJESTY’S.
(Top to bottom, left to right): Leo Franklyn as Slithers; Frank Leighton as Lord
Eynsford (note the strorat a la Chevalier); Reg Dane as Mr. Toplady; Marie
Le Varre as Moddom Jeane; Gus Bluett as Timothy; Cyril Ritchard as Hon.
H. Pierrepont and Madge Elliott as Mary; the sextette.
Melodrama. —Handsome hero wrongly
accused, sinister villain, betrayed maiden,
mortgage on the old home, detective disguised
as half-wit, heroine in black in the third
act, happy ending.
Musical Comedy. —So called because it
isn’t a comedy and is detested by musicians.
Opera. —Always pervaded by the odor of
garlic.
O.P. —The right-hand side of the stage
and furthest from the prompter. The
deafest and most absent-minded member of
the cast flies thither like a bird to its nest.
Orchestra. —One piano, one fiddle, one
drum.
Paper.—A means of making a despised
show appear popular.
Play. —Shakspeare said it was the thing.
If he lived in these days he’d use a horrible
adjective.
Play Doctor. —Retained by managers to
rearrange a play so that the author’s agent
won’t recognise it.
Playgoer. —A person in whose breast
hope springs eternal.
Plot. —A new one is due to make its
appearance in 1992.
Prompter. —Should he fall asleep during
a performance it would stop till he awoke.
Properties.—The sofa, last covered with
cretonne in 1873, which appears sometimes
in “A Hovel in the Slums,” sometimes in
“An Apartment in the Ducal Palace.”
Puppet.—A marionette; also, a producer
in the hands of a female star.
Quick Change.—When the heroine
changes stockings and the shape of her
eyebrows.
Quick-change Room. —Where the cast
changes poker chips for cash.
Realism. —Piays located in coal cellars,
basements, underground-railway stations
and lift wells; usually with a dustman for
a hero.
Revue.—Something in which the dressing
of the chorus is the last word in economy.
Role. —A part taken by an actor in a
play. It is never the one he wants to play
unless he’s his own manager.
Romance. —Plays in which hero and hero-
ine canoodle beneath a canvas tree in stage
moonlight, reinforced by a spotlight of
2,000,000 c.p.
Spotlight.—lt plays steadily on the
heroine while she says, “How sick I am of
all this vulgar display!”
Sceneby.—Usually quite the best feature
of the play.
Sckipt.—The MS. of a play; considered
by most producers an irrelevance.
Soliloquy.—A long speech which an
actor intends to deliver to the manager and
never does.
Stage.—The spot marked X where so
many crimes in the name of Art are com-
mitted.
Stage Door. —In fiction a place where
gilded youths await beauteous chorus-girls.
More useful as a means of escape from in-
furiated audiences.
Stage Fright.—The predicament of an
actor who sights a creditor in the audience.
Super.—An unnamed member of the cast
whose principal job is to avoid blocking stars
from the view of the audience.
Understudy.—An actor who spends his
time off duty praying that some calamity
(preferably fatal) will overtake the actor
whose part he has learned in anticipation
of such an event.
Up-stage.—Toward the back of the stage,
also the attitude of a female star towards
a male admirer who sends her' carnations
instead of orchids.
Wings. —What an actor wishes he had
when he gets the “bird.”
Wind Machine.—A mummer telling of
his glorious past.
“Pinafore” at its latest revival lingered
only two nights on the stage of Sydney
Royal. It might have been given a longer
spin without outstaying its welcome. Most
characteristic and representative of all the
Sullivan productions of that genre, it is an
outstanding example of neatness in operatic
construction. “Infernal nonsense” it may
be, as Gilbert makes the major-general say
in “The Pirates,” but when an American
magazine asked 25 eminent musicians, re-
presenting ten nations, to name the ten
greatest masterpieces of all music, a very
scholarly composer put “Pinafore” in his
selection, cheek by jowl with the loftiest
works of Bach, Beethoven, Chopin, Wagner
and some of the great moderns.
Preceded, as on its last Sydney appear-
ance, by “Cox and Box,” the piece was given
practically the same cast. The only differ-
ence, and that one of very slight degree,
was that Ivan Menzies was more elfishly
irresponsible than ever as Sir Joseph Porter.
If Maisie Ramsay's Josephine had a trifle
more voice the performance could be passed
as being nearly perfect.
* * #
“The Yeomen of the Guard” (Gilbert
wanted to call it “The Beefeaters”), which
will occupy Sydney Royal until Saturday,
when “The Pirates of Penzance” replaces it,
is the most serious of the Gilsullivan pro-
ductions, and in its more solemn moments
has a flavor of grand opera. Gilbert had
fears about it, for it made departures from
the recipe that had proved so successful.
Instead of opening with a rollicking chorus
“The art of sticking on a false moustache.”
the stage is empty save for Phoebe at her
spinning-wheel. Her song, “When Maiden
Loves,” wistful, and with a hint of fore-
boding in the music, sets the key for the
piece. The air of tragedy is ever present,
accentuated or minimised according to the
manner in which Jack Point is played. Ivan
Menzies follows the Lytton tradition —a ren-
dering reminiscent of the despair of Andre-
yev’s clown who loved a female lion-tamer
—and dies at the fall of the curtain. Beneath
all the jester’s merry quips is an Under-
current of sadness and frustration because of
the loss of his fair partner in jocularity.
Grossmith —the original Jack —did not alloW
the clown’s broken heart to cut short his
life of buffoonery. Whether Lytton or Gros-
smith was right probably doesn’t matter
much. The Jack Point of Menzies is a
pleasure to the eye and the ear, and he gets
the full dramatic value out of the contrast
between his singing of “I Have a Song to
Sing, O,” in the first act and at the finale.
Maisie Ramsay’s Elsie Maynard is a trifle
stolid and Menzies would pair better with
a more vivacious partner. Mary H'otham,
as Phoebe, is much more sprightly. Leo Darn-
ton’s gentlemanly tenor again graces the
part of Fairfax, and John Ralston is more
gruesome than ever as Wilfred Shadbolt.
Orchestra, scenery and costumes are up to
the mark.
* * *
Those who haven’t yet swayed to or sat
out “Waltzes from Vienna” at Melb. Royal
are still in time to sample that attraction,
but a mysterious advt. in the dailies portends
changes at Melb. King’s, “What Happens
While Parents Sleep” being appended to the
announcement that “Treasure Island” is in
its last nights. Of the latter show it may be
said that the expedition in search of Captain
Flint’s buried doubloons deserved a bigger
subsidy from the public than it got.
The flag of Variety, which was kept flying
at Adelaide Tivoli during the winter, has
been raised again at the Royal, which re-
opens with a jolly Frolics co. headed by
Eric Edgley and Clem Dawe. In pictures,
the Majestic has gone all-British; also a.
new Times Theatrette gives an hour of
topichl news which Hollywood never heard
about.
* # *
Jean Garling, of Sydney, the first Aus-
tralian lady to venture on a Grand Guignol
play, lias completed another. “Death and
the Tantalizer” will be produced by Scott
Alexander at the Repertory on January 28.
* * *
The Tongan Choir, which opened at Melb.
Auditorium on Saturday night, proved to con-
sist of 17 dusky and remarkably hefty young
men, who sang harmonised melodies of their
own land, performed native dances and cere-
monies, and warbled English part-songs with
very good enunciation. Tenors, light bari-
tones and basses blended effectively. Instru-
ments like ukuleles, supplemented by bamboo
flutes, provided accompaniment for the
Tongan numbers, one of which was a com-
position by Tonga’s Queen, Charlotte
(Salote) ‘ Tubou.
“A producer in the hands of a female star.”
The Felton Bequest paid 200 guineas for
Max Meldrum’s still-life, “My Lady’s Table.’’
This is a record price for an Australian
still-life, the previous best being 150 guineas
paid by Vic. National Gallery for Bernard
Hall’s “Giant Crab.’’


lU.BET flwra
r SIXER
/irili
lAS
ARTHUR
MAILEY’S
Book of Amusing
CRICKET
CARTOONS AND
STORIES
Just out. Price 1/-
Obtainable all
Booksellers, or from
Box 1430JJ, Sydney.
Postage paid .1/2.
Position Wanted.
V/IC. P.S. Boy (22), 18 months’ clerical,
V 2 yrs.’ wheat, 2 yrs.’ station exp. Good
refs. Wants employment. —250, Bulletin
Office, Sydney.
Auction Sale.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1933.
At 11.30.
AUCTIONEER’S ROOMS, PARRAMATTA.
AUCTION SALE
of the WERE KNOWN and
HIGHLY IMPROVED
CLYDESDALE ESTATE, MARSDEN
PARK,
Midway between Parramatta and Richmond,
New South Wales,
So well known as the HOME of the late
JOHN ARTHUR BUCKLAND,
comprising 1456 acres,
In THREE PORTIONS, IF REQUIRED,
534 ACRES with HOMESTEAD extensively
improved with MAIN ROAD and PER-
MANENT CREEK Frontages.
365 ACRES Grazing and Cultivation,
FARM BUILDINGS and COTTAGE,
Permanent Creek.
557 ACRES bush and cleared Land,
COTTAGE and OUTBUILDINGS.
Approached from main WESTERN or
RICHMOND LINES.
Plans now ready. Inspection arranged.
Liberal Terms at Sale.
Further particulars from
W. F. JAGO, Auctioneer, Parramatta.
For Sale
Farms for Sale.
NORTH QUEENSLAND’S TABLELANDS.
Rich Volcanic Soil.
CHARMS. —Sugar-cane, Dairy, Maize and
Tobacco. Cool climate; big rainfall
always assured; watered by rivers, creeks
and springs. Farms in all stages from
standing scrub to highly improved.
Write for prices, terms and particulars.
J. A. PLANT,
Box 8, Atherton, N.Q.
BUY A SUGAR FARM NOW.
EDUCED FARES
■for First Saloon
The Orient Line announces
that First Saloon Fares for
passages on Orient Line
20,000-ton ships have been
reduced. The new fares
range as follows:
% SYDNEY TO LONDON
SINGLE
from
(85,4110
RETURN
from
f 149»(193
PLUS EXCHANGE
While the fares are much
lower, the same high stan-
dard of comfort and ser-
vice; the same consistent
thoughtfulness and atten-
tion characteristic of all
Orient ships, will rigidly be
maintained
Orient une
THE NEW FIRST SALOON FARES from other ORIENT LINE ports of call in Australia
range as follows:
BRISBANE Single, from £B7 to £112; Return, from £152 to £196
MELBOURNE and TASMANIA Single, from £B3 to £108; Return, from £145 to £lB9
ADELAIDE Single, from £Bl to £106; Return, from £142 to £lB6
FREMANTLE Single, from £79 to £104; Return, from £l3B to £lB2
SHADOW SHOWS.
Hollywood has practically all the direc-
tors and most of the actors, actresses and
technicians, but, as The Bulletin has re-
marked before, it is in dire need of one or
two new stories. The plot of Play Girl,
the first film at Sydney Regent, has been
done to death. Loretta Young is an ambi-
tious clurk (Ang. shopgirl) at the Mayfield
when Norman Foster beguiles her into sac-
rificing her career for matrimony. Picture
addicts will know what to expect when they
learn that he plays the races (Ang. bets).
There are some agonising moments between
the stage when the erratic youth bolts for
parts unknown and the one at which Loretta
loses her job and assumes the sable garb ot
imminent motherhood. The director has
taken a chance and introduced some more or
less novel ideas here. She backs a horse in
order to raise the maternity expenses, but
is welched by the identical scoundrel who
was to blame for many of her husband’s
backslidings; and there is a comic policeman
whose wife has twins just as the heroifie’s
ordeal is due. The recalcitrant husband has
of course returned in a repentant frame of
mind before the arrival of the infant, and
has sworn off racing for life. The store
sequences are interesting, and Winnie Light-
ner, as Loretta’s wise-cracking pal, and Guy
Kibbee, as Winnie’s elderly admirer, supply
comedy on familiar lines.
“Street of Women” also has an old plot
and a stereotyped collection of characters.
Kay Francis is the millionaire’s mistress
with a heart of gold. Before he met her
Allan Dinehart was a waster; she detached
him from the bottle and turned him into a
successful builder of skyscrapers. He wants
to marry her, but his wife won’t agree to
a Reno divqrce. At the reception in honor
of the completion of a skyscraper, of which
Miss Francis was the sole inspiration, the
wife turns up and shares in the glory, and
she also calls at her rival’s milliner’s shop
in a comic hat, declines to buy anything, and
retires with the cryptic remark, “I have seen
all I want to, thank you.” An ignobly
jealous cat if ever there was one. The situa-
tion is further complicated, as it invariably
is, by the fact that Allan’s daughter and
Kay’s brother love each other. It is Roland
Young, friend of Larry and unavowed wor-
shipper of Kay, who eventually bamboozles
the wife into giving the lovers their happi-
ness. The casting, acting and photography
of this maudlin old yarn are admirable —
no one is moi-e plausible as what the Greeks
called a “lady friend” than Miss Francis,
and Roland Young is always delightful as
an amiable interferer —but the action is
slow; a rare fault with an American pro-
duction.
* # *
“Suspense,” at Sydney Haymarket, was
produced by British International Pictures
in 1930, when pictures stressing the horror
of war were more popular than they are
now. A relief party takes over a dug-out
in a quiet sector, and finds that the enemy
is mining under them. The film shows the
reactions of the seemingly doomed men, and
particularly of Pettigrew (Mickey Brant-
ford), who deserts but returns with
two prisoners. The effect on the others is
equally hideous. They are relieved, but the
story drags on till Pettigrew is killed and
two others are horribly wounded. The
thing is too depressing to entertain the aver-
age filmgoer, but there were a few in last
Saturday night’s audience who found parts
of it) funny!
Hoot Gibson has the mount again in
“Clearing the Range.” He plays the part
of the day-sleeping, night-riding avenger
excellently, and he has a happy knack of
introducing occasional sly digs at the villain.
Hooper Atehely is the villain, and Sally
Filers attends to the human interest.
* * *
It isn’t quite dear whether “Prosperity,”
at Sydney St. James’s, is meant to be slap-
stick, sentimentalism or propaganda for a
variant on the Douglas .Credit System. It
is a jumble of all three. First there is
Marie Dressier, in scenes of violence with
Polly Moran. They are mothers-in-law
whose rows upset the relations between their
respective son and daughter. Polly is plas-
tered with custard, receives the contents of
a coffee pot over her dress, and has ice
deposited beneath the front of her blouse.
When Marie and Polly are not squabbling
they .are sobbing on each other s shoulders.
Mane also sheds many a tear over her son’s
follies, her daughter-in-law’s sad plight, and
her two grandchildren. We also have Marie
on the stump barracking for the institution
of a system of bartei. In addiUo -
a militant mother-in-law, she is the remea
president of a bank which has suspe a
payment. Her mission is to see tnat
me ets its obligations, which, of course, it
<j oes> a note of bathos intrudes when the
o pj lady attempts to commit suicide so that
the bank may benefit from her life insurance
Q However she mistakes a reducing
• t for rat ’poison; the stolen bonds
Covered, and all ends happily. Nor-
’lays Marie ’s son, an uncouth
man roster piajs xua > , ank
bunglter who seems out place as a bann
president, even 111 the U.8.A., and
Page is insipid as 111 s wite.


N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . .
Total Reserves approximately . .
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately
£241,341
£3,660,000
£900,000
£500,000
Area Planted .'7 V 146,285 acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, f>e Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Waymouth Street, Adelaide
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
Bombay, Singapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris.
SAVE AND PROFIT
Piling shillings one upon another may be a form of thrift, but it is a
risky method and unprofitable. There is loss of profit because the
same money, placed in a Commonwealth Savings Bank, would earn
interest. There is risk of loss by fire, by burglary, even by inadvertence,
and, not so obvious but quite definite, there is the risk of temptation
to spend.
The Savings Bank Account is the logical place for your savings, for
there the}, both accumulate and earn interest. Thus your saving power
is multiplied, your savings become profitable, and you are less tempted
to spend wastefully.
Open your Account now.
CbmmoiiwcaKb Savinas Jfafe of Hnstralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government .)
ABORIGINALITIES
ONLY MIDDLIN’.
INTERJECTOR (singer is doing ids best with “A Hundred Fathoms Deep"): " Try fifty
fathom, boay; undred’s too deep for ’ee.”
Delicious Trimmings : That yarn about
i/i /mo/' C,m - t l lat D rod uced black milk (B.
reminds me. We had.a dairy-farm
i the Queensland sugar country, and one
hot season when feed was scarce the old
man fed the cows on baled lucerne with a
' mol ? s ® es - '•’he yield increased
out of all knowledge, and the only peculiar
thing about it was that the cows all seemed
10 have the hiccups. The next we heard was
that Deacon Brodie, one of our best cus-
tomers m the township—he kept a milk-
shake counter in his big store—had been run
m or drunk and. The chapel members were
considering what t 0 do with the backslider
when a hurry call came through to say that
a couple of waggons were wanted out at
he Sunday school treat, all hands being
hopeiessiy blotto. It was a terrible week at
tlimbo, everyone regarding his dearest friend
with the sneering eye of confirmed suspicion,
i he distiller from one of the mills
cleared up the mystery. He found that
me green lucerne in combination with the
molasses had set up spirituous fermentation,
with the result that the cows were making
then- own rum and giving it off in their
#uilc. 1 he only sufferer in the end was the
boss. I forget how much the Excise hit
him up tor, and he had a narrow escaor
trom the cooler.
* * * *
’’Holothuria”: How many people wli 0 write
of the sea slug which is known in its dried
state as trepang, and when alive as beche-
de:mer, consider the meaning of the name?
Hechc is. French for spade, and a more
inappropriate title for the living creature
or the dirty fragment of rubbery-looking sub-
stance _ which is the basis of many Chinese
delicacies one could hardly find anywhere.
As a matter of fact the original name was
1 ortuguese— bicho-do-mar. Bicho is Portu-
guese for worm, and the word exactly de-
scribes the jelly-like sea slug in its native
state.
"!* v ;J: ,1,
‘ Le Glorieux”; “What we want ’ere,”
said old Bill Francis, "is the Walkin’ Bag-
man.” We were camped on a creek in
\N .Q., and during the night a flood had come
down, leaving our hobbled horses on the
opposite bank. Bill proceeded to elucidate
They called ’im the Walkin’ Bagman be-
cause ’e walked everywhere. The first time
I semi ’im I was makin’ up to Winton from
Brighton Downs, ’umpin’ bluev. and with a
cheque in me pocket. When I got to the
Western Creek she’s runnin’ a banker, an’
not bein’ a very good swimmer I reck-
oned to camp till she went down, though I
’adn’t ’ad a drink for six munce. About
o’clock in the afternoon I sees a bloke cornin’
along the road from Winton with ’is drum
up. ’E stops on the opposite bank, an’ I
yells out ‘It’s a case o' camp or swim, mate’:
but ’e don’t take no notice. ’E pulls a piece
o’ string outer ’is pocket an’ ties it round
’is ’at under ’is chin. Then ’e fills ’is pipe
and fits somethin’ over the bowl, an' starts
wadin’ into the bloomin’ creek. ‘ ’Ere,’ I yells,
‘yer wanter get ’igher up if yer gointer
swim, but ’e don’t say nuthin’; just keeps
on wadin’ inter the flamin’ water. When
’e gets up to ’is neck I decides Vs a .sooicide
an’ it gives me a nasty turn. Well, ’e goes
on walkin’, an’ soon on’y the top of 'is ’at
is allowin'; then that goes. I was all of
sweat be this time. ’E’d been gorn erbouf
three minutes, an’ I was just i-eady to "o
explorin’ down the creek fer ’is body when
I sees a lot o’ little bubbles «! „’,>
when they busts blue smoke floats away!
‘Pore feller,' I says to meself, ‘that’s 'is
larst breath’; lint it wasn’t neither. The
smoke ’adn’t ’ardly disappeared when up
out o’ the water pops ’is bloomin’ oF ’at.
After ’is ’at comes ’is ’ead with ’is flamin’
oF pipe still goin’ strong, and ’e walks
HIS CHOICE.
“What tobacco do you smoke, Jim?”
“Yours, if yer got any.”
outer the creek easy like, the same as
’e walks in. I says, ‘You mus’ be some
swimmer under water, mate; I thort you
was gone fer good!’ ‘That ain’t swimmin’,
mate,’ ’e says. ‘You just ’olds yer breath
and walks across the bottom, same as you
would if she was dry.’ ‘Not fer me,’ I says.
‘You was gorn that long I thought you was
drowned.’ ‘Yairs,’ ’c says, ‘it don’t gener-
ally take me that long, but I ’a # d to .stop
in the middle to do up me bootlace.’ ”
* * =!'• *
“G.W.D.” (Siam) : Hyenas may merit
some of the nasty things said about them
by “Wolverfontein” (B. 2/11/’32),
but they’re not all bad. When I
was in the Lake Chad district of
the Kamerun I owned a hyena I
had reared from puppyhood. This
beast, which had the run of my
place, was most tractable in cap-
tivity, and made a fine pet.
Though very shy of strangers, he
used to follow me like a dog when-
ever I went walking or riding,
and when I made calls would wait
by my nag until I returned. His
favorite spot was the kitchen, and
I have fed him on everything from
meat to tinned fruit. He especi-
ally enjoyed raisins and nuts. At
three years he was a fine animal,
possessed of tremendously power-
ful jaws and forequarters; but
the weak stern was supported by
two measly legs. The native
tradition for this is that Allah,
annoyed by the general meanness
of the brute, struck the tribal pro-
genitor a blow across the hind-
quarters which crippled them, and
so they remain to this day! A
dour Scot, who took over from me
in 1918, said he didn’t like the
look of the animal and would
assassinate him on my departure. He did.
* * * %
“FY7”: To the old-timer there is some-
thing appropriate in the statement (B.
4/1/’B3) that the main street of Tambo on
tin 1 Upper Barcoo is planted with bottle
trees. The town in its early days was greatly
addicted to bottles, though not of the vege-
table kingdom. On great occasions, such
as Christmas-time and the annual race meet-
ings, bottles strewed the main street and
the ironstone ridges round the town with
an effect that, in the early morning sun,
vied for splendour with Aladdin’s jewel cave
in the pantomime. Nevertheless, some of
the Tamboites kept their beads level on these
occasions. A party of which I was one
attended the annual races with a steeple-
chaser named Canobie, which had been win-
ning all over the countryside and was a
moral for the big- jumping event. His stable
by the river bank was locked and guarded,
but here the Tambo bottles played their part.
On race morning, Ca.nobie’s custodian was
found in drunken slumber by an unlocked
door. Down the river bank, knee-deep in
the remains of a patch of green oats, was
what looked like a bloated balloon. It was
Canobie. He did not start.
* * * *
“Deloraine” : Joe and Bill were arguing as
to whether snakes swallow one another when
Pete settled the matter. He said: “When
I was on the Murray my mate and I caught
tw r o tiger-snakes alive. We put them in
a screw-top glass jar, and screwed it down
so that they had no earthly chance of get-
ting out. Next morning both snakes had
vanished. Each had swallowed the other.”
* * * *
“Speewah”: A tall tale comes from
Queensland about a faithful hound who de-
fended his stunned master for hours against
the attacks of a goanna. The boss had
taken a toss from his horse and lay on the
ground unconscious. When he revived some
time later he found his cattle dog barking
furiously at a four-foot go. The go. and the
bark look like, the only true part of the yarn.
Ao goanna would tackle a human even when
unconscious—bogged sheep are his limit, and
even then he has to be hungry. Secondly,
n 0 goanna with any respeet for himself
would stay for five seconds within coo-ee of
a dog. Thirdly, the cattle dog who couldn’t
wipe out a goanna of any size in short
order is only fit for a lapdo’g in a home for
old ladies. Writer has owned fox terriers
who would kill any goanna in creation.
Aricola : "Timer is a trifle muddled
himselt when, in discussing the marsupial
vole (B. 4/l/’B3), he says that marsupials
are wholly vegetarians. Some that are not
are the native cat. the Tasmanian devil,
the Tasmanian wolf, the bandicoots, the
platypus, the echidna, the rare Myrmecobins
fusciatus of Westralia, and the American
opossum—the only marsupial found outside
Australia and the island of New Guinea.
THE TWO-MILE TRACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m thinking to-day, as I lie at ease
Afar from town by a willowed pool,
Of the long ago when, a boy, I took
The two-mile track to a country school.
The track led down from an old farm-
dwelling
To a creek spanned o’er by a little bridge.
Then wandered along through the hops and
bracken
That grew at .the foot of Charley’s Ridge.
’Tis hard to recapture what thoughts were
mine,
For false and impish is Memory,
As. hag on shoulder, I trod that track—
So much has happened since then to me.
But this I know, that my wmy was sweetened
By a thrush at times, and at other times—
Now near, and now far, on the clear air
sounding—
By the tinkling music the bell-bird chimes.
’Tis hard to re-vision what sights I saw
As there I wandered ’neatli cloudless skies ;
For I’ve looked on much since I trod that
track,
And Time plays tricks with the keenest
eyes.
But this I know, that at Orchard’s sliprails,
With the wild hops scenting the dewy air,
I would wait and watch till a girl 'came
tripping
With a smile of greeting to join mo there.
Then talk would be ours of the birds and
trees,
And flowers, wild flowers in the bush,
dew-wet —
Oh. forgotten is much I have known since
then,
And much remembered I’d fain forget!
Then, last, I’d come to the little clearing
Where the schoolhouse shone in the morn-
ing sun,
And join in a throng of merry players,
The two-mile track through the timber
done.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


ẃ
ẅ
w
If interested in Tools and Hardware
for Farm and Home, send TO-DAY
for a copy of our large new Cata-
logue No. 33. Post Free.
FOR GARAGE OR WORKSHOP
This splendidly-constructed Universal Lathe. Built by a
Modelmaker with all a hand Craftsman’s precision and
scrupulous attention to detail. A most useful Tool, capable
of efficiently handling, besides lathe work, grinding,
polishing, drilling, sawing, etc.
SPECIFICATIONS:
2Jin. Centres, 5in. Face Plate. Sliding or fixed back Centre. Eength overall,
26 inches. Saw Table, Sin. x 3in. Diameter of Solid Steel tied, lj inches.
Diameter of Saw, 3in. Compound Slide Rest. Fitted with Tapered Spindle
and 3-step Cone Headstock for 5-16 inch round leather belting. Included
in the standard equipment are a \ inch Drill Chuck and a Hand Rest for
Wood Turning. PRICE: £10. Freight extra. Countershaft may be
supplied as an extra, if required.
Ptoprietanj limited
582 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
51 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
116 Waymouth St., ADELAIDE.
532 Murray Street, PERTH.
“Waranbini”: An old belief that persists
in many , parts of the bush is that a snake,
when killed during the day, doesn’t die till
sundown. I got to the bottom of that idea
after dissecting a goanna. The heart was
cut out and placed on a stump, and two
hours afterwards it was still beating—and
it continued to beat after being cut in two.
All reptiles seem to have that peculiarity,
though perhaps the contraction is not So
prolonged in snakes as in the goanna. It
is involuntary muscular action which
makes the snake appear to squirm and
wriggle long after it has been killed, and
the setting of the muscles when the air
THE MAN AND THE MAID.
TALKATIVE CUSTOMER: “He gave her over £10 during the holidays, and she hasn’t got
a thing to show for it.”
BAD BUTCHER: “No, but I dessay she’s got something to hide.”
has cooled that has spread the belief that
the reptile isn’t a corpse till the sun has
set. A snake may be considered dead soon
after its head lias been cut off, but the body,
if not battered with a waddy, will wriggle
actively for a considerable time afterwards,
“Anukalam”: The village of Munuwai, on
the Ivavieng-road, in Northern New Ireland,
was en fete. The periodical cycle of mor-
tuary rites, known locally as “making mala-
gan,” was at its height. Taro platforms
groaned under the burden of their loads;
pigs in dozens ranged along the ground in
festive array, awaiting the carving. On the
last and greatest day, when the kai-kai was
to be distributed to hundreds of visitors, and
all the gaily-bedecked dancing groups were
to stage their practised performance, early
in the afternoon great black rain-clouds
came sweeping up towards the village, and
rain appeared imminent. I watched closely
the movements of Kawok, master of cere-
monies. Quietly he detached himself from
an animated group of bucks, and, strolling
into the bush, plucked a spray of leaves
from each of two different sorts of tree.
Cautionsly, and at some distance, I followed
him. He made his way along the beach to
a point overshadowed and enclosed by the
thick drooping foliage of a large tree that
leaned out over the water right in front of
the village cemetery. Squatting down, fac-
ing seaward, Kawok crooned a spell to the
elements, looking skywards and moving his
leaf-sprays up and down, to and fro. Rising
after a minute or so of this performance,
he threw the leaves out upon the waves and
hurried off. Back in the throng of natives
I suggested that it would rain. No, it
wouldn’t! Everyone appeared easily confi-
dent. To Kawok himself, who did not know
I had spied upon his performance, I
hazarded a similar suggestion. At first he
looked hurt and stupefied; then, as he re-
membered that, after all, I was a mere
European, he hastened to assure me that it
couldn’t rain. When I asked him why he
thought it couldn’t, he looked knowing and
said simply: “I know all aboutfit.” And it
didn’t rain either, anyway not until all the
dances were over and the kai-kai appor-
tioned.
* * * *
“Pluto”: Now that interest in lost reefs
in C'entralia seems to be petering out, an-
other expedition to salvage the buried trea-
sure of Cocos (not the Indian Ocean group
of that name) ought to be about due.
This is probably the most completely docu-
mented and authenticated of all treasure
caches. Somewhere on the island, according
to the records, is vast plunder of Spanish
plate compiled by the pirate Davis. An-
other of the skull-and-crossbones gentlemen
hid more treasure, and yet more was planted
on Cocos by the captain of a .ship carrying
refugees from Peru, who, according to tradi-
tion, brought with them treasure valued at
£2,500,000. He made his passengers walk
the plank and cached their boodle. But
these piratical coves were good hiders, and
all that has been found on Cocos by the
many expeditions which have ransacked the
island is a single Spanish doubloon —the
reward obtained by the mutineers who
sought Flint’s treasure on R.L.S.’s “Trea-
sure Island.”
* # * *
“Roga”: During a bug-hunting expedition
in Gippsland lately I found a curious and
little-known spider that is expert in the
use of the lasso. Suspending itself by a
strand of web from a tree. Eight-legs dangles
down a webby rope with a sticky loop at
the end, and with
this it traps
flies, moths, bees
and any insect
that attempts to
fly past. Ones
caught there is no
escape for the
victim. The
female of the
species is fitted
with a pouch like
a kangaroo, and
as her husband
catches victims
he tosses them on
the rope above,
where she re-
moves them from
the noose and
stows them in
her pouch.
* *
“It-i” : “Y o u
savvy one good
fellow place along
plenty alligator
he stop ?” Thus
I addressed my
Papuan shooting-
boy. “Yes, Tau-
bada,” he an-
swered. We set
off for the spot
where alligators
were to be as
plentiful as mos-
quitoes and
brought up at a
shallow pool in
an almost dry
creek, perhaps
Bin. deep. I
bec a m e very
angry, but the
boy was all grin,
having discovered
the prints of an
alligator on the
bed of the creek.
He followed the
spoor for a short
distance and then
began to dig
down into the
mud and dried leaves with his arms and feet,
in the meantime motioning to me on the bank
to be prepared to shoot. To my surprise there
was a sudden disturbance, and the native
plunged aside to allow a 10ft. alligator to
emerge and amble off along the dry bed of
the creek. I was so surprised that I forgot
to pot the blighter.
% * * ❖
“Tauri”: According to a Sydney daily
paper, New Guinea natives feed their fowls
with a secret seed. The fowls lay eggs of
normal size, but these begin to grow after
laying until an egg may attain the dimensions
of a large watermelon. Then, “a score or more
sit round it and carve it with their long
sharp knives.” I’m afraid the paper’s in-
formant has had his leg pulled, an art in
which the unsophisticated savage excels if
he spots a mug. The New Guinea domestic
fowl lays an egg about the size of a ping-
pong ball. On the other hand, the wild,
mound-building jungle fowl lays one twenty
times larger. Probably the seeker after
knowledge, noting the difference, made
inquiries of his native friends, who obliged
in the customary Ananias-like fashion.
* * * *
“Kooragai” : A stockman was swept off his
horse during the last flood in the Darling.
After being carried some distance by the
current he scrambled into a tree, where he
was perched for two days. But hunger
didn’t worry him long. He tied a twig hook
to the end of his stockwhip, which he had
carried round his shoulder, and, baiting with
a frog that had taken refuge on the same
tree, he caught a small Murray cod. The
next thing was to cook it. This he accom-
plished by cutting a piece of bark with his
pocket-knife, fixing it firmly among the
branches and making a fire —after drying his
matches—with bits of dry bark and twigs
and a small dead limb from the tree he was
perched in. He was still serenely fishing
when a boat came along and rescued him.
* * * *
“Wrash”: “T.L.G.’s” denial of the photo-
graphic properties of lightning (B.
28/12/’32) doesn’t impress me. By Jack
Southam’s gold fossickers’ camp in the
shadow of Dromedary Mountain (N.S.W.
South Coast), a tree was struck during a
thunderstorm. On a bench alongside the
galley was a prospector’s dish, new, bright
and shining, half-filled with dirty water, and
with a light sediment of dollied ore at the
bottom. When it was emptied, an indelible
imprint of near-by trees and ferns and of a
shovel upon a stump was found clearly
GILDING THE LILY.
“No. I require absolutely nothing. For the last time, I tell you,
I’ve got everything I need.”
“Well, Mum, buy a packet o’ these acid tablets, and then, be cripes,
you’ll have something you don’t need.”
photographed on the bottom of the tin. “Old
Jack” at Tilba Tilba has preserved the curi-
osity.
* * * *
“Porosus”: There have been many
instances of the estuarine crocodile going to
sea and working his way south. One North
Queenslander managed to get as far south
as the Logan River, and others have been
seen in other southern waters of that State
and down the N.S.W. coast. Probably the
only check on croc.-migration is the temper-
ature of the water. The ironclad beast hates
the cold worse than a marmoset, and in
chilly climates has to have his quarters
steam- or otherwise heated, even in summer.
* * *
“GM7”: The mouse-catcher of a Sydney
factory strolled on to the electric power
mains, blowing the fuses and generally dis-
organising the works. An incensed fore-
man, seeking the cause, found a slightly-
singed puss wandering away from the .scene
of her indiscretion. In his wrath he caught
her a clip on the head with a length of lead
piping and dumped the limp body in the
incinerator, which, luckily Yor puss, wasn’t
burning. Next morning, on opening the
incinerator door, a cleaner was astounded
when the cat bounded out, none the worse
for its adventures.
* =:■= * *
“Mundowie”: On the Barkly tableland
there are mobs of wild horses, particularly
in the neighborhood of Alexandra and Avon
Downs. It is an old saying that horses are
two a penny there, and men were hired to
shoot brumbies at ss. a head for the first
hundred, a little more for the next hundred,
and so on up to a thousand. Payment was
made on production of the ears from each
animal destroyed. The mobs originated from
horses that got away into back parts of the
runs, or were never mustered because they
were too cheap. Occasionally there is a
round-up when grass is scarce. Distance
and cost of carriage make the hides value-
less. Alexandra, a mammoth run of 12,000
square miles, usually carries 50,000 head of
cattle. Its nearest neighbor, Avon Downs, is
50 miles away. That is reckoned a mere
trifle in the vast expanses where the light of
a motor can be spen at a distance of 20 miles.
MAGPIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now friendly and queenly,
On fence-rail or log,
Or fossicking keenly,
The magpie serenely
Greets man or his dog.
She’s cheery, loquacious,
And charms with her song;
But jealous, audacious,
Alert and pugnacious
; Should cares come along.
When Maggie is nesting,
She soon makes it clear
She’ll stand no molesting.
Whatever you? questing,
You mustn’t go near;
As each one discovers
Who thereabout treads.
How she startles the lovers
With swoops like the plovers,
And snaps at their heads!
The dog that encroaches
Awakes with a start
To learn that he poaches;
And the colt that approaches
Goes off with the cart.
Till her duties are over,
Her family flown,
She’s a truculent rover
O’er woodland and clover
She claims as her own.
Then gladsomely ringing
Her carols are heard;
She stays in her winging
To greet you with singing,
A peaceable bird,
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


Reduced Tariff
Lower Tariff? Certainly! Lower Quality? Certainly not! Reduced rates
mean nothing if they involve reduction of comfort or service. The famous
’‘Australia Hotel” standard of quality is maintained, but at reduced prices,
made possible by substantial reductions in prices of raw materials.
The
New Decorations
ROOM ONLY RATES:
Single Room from 10/6
Double Room from 20/-
Australia
Telegraphic Address:
“Anstraotel , Sydney.”
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH.
SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
“A man told the Glebe magistrate that his wife
had thrown the clock at him.”
Well, it can’t be said she had no time
for the man.
V
“The late Mr. Broome left an estate of £24,623.”
-— “S.M.H.”
It is natural for a Broome to raise dust.
“This week's Association football matches were
remarkable for three scoreless draws.” — Cable.
Footballers seem to have gone off tlie
goaled standard.
* *
.“The connoisseur has educated his palate above
the taste of a single liquor. He is continually
seeking new combinations.”
Gentlemen also prefer blends.
* *
“The salaries of Hollywood film stars have been
enormously reduced.”
Docs this mean that they won’t be able
to afford so many marriages?
* *
“A woman told the Central Police Court (Sydney)
that the only relative she had in the world was in
Scotland.”
Pn bably a relation.
* *
“For all the good politicians do, electors might
as well let them sleep from one election to the
next.”
And so let lying dogs sleep.
* *
“Some judicial decisions are not very clear.”
— “S.M.H.”
Well, the quality of mercy never was
strained.
“A singer’s success depends largely on the compass
of his voice.”
A good compass may steer him to affluence.
BIG-GAME HUNTER: “Once while I was
having a meal in the jungle a lion
came so close to me that I could feel
his breath on the back of my neck.
What did I do?”
BORED LISTENER: “Turned your collar up?”
ALL’S WELL IN THE ORCHESTRA
WELL.
“The leader of an orchestra is expected to behave
like a mad bull sometimes.” —Musical note.
He fiddles with his music while he harps
on the poor quality of his band, calling them
a lot of oboes. He drums some of
them out, tosses his horns wildly, and, when
spoken to by the stage director, says
“Cornet!” referring in a shrill treble to
sharps. He continues to flute in an insult-
ing manner until the general manager
arrives; then he is reduced to quavers.
Becoming crotchety again, he is given a
few bars’ rest. Harmony is then restored.
He ceases to put the wind up the wind
instruments, and the players, satisfied that
their brass is assured, fall into the right key.
11. M.
INDUSTRIALISING OUR DEFENCES.
By these presents be it known that by
virtue of the powers conferred by the Public
Service Act upon the Senior Clerk, Depart-
ment of Defence, and to
avoid curtailments in the
office staff, the Common-
wealth Defence Act is
hereby amended as from
January 1, 1933.
In lieu of the present
organisation on a volun-
tary basis all citizens shall
hold themselves in readi-
ness for active service in
any war declared to be
bona fide by a majority of
Australian Trades Hallers.
Provided, however, that
every citizen shall be en-
titled to three days’ clear
notice (Sundays and holi-
days excepted) of the Gov-
ernment’s intention to en-
gage in such war, and that
active service shall be con-
fined to 44 hours weekly;
provided always that the
Under-Secretary for De-
fence may declare any
offensive an urgent work,
in which case hours in
excess of 44 may be
worked. Time off in lieu
of overtime will be granted
within one calendar month
of such operation.
All citizens shall keep in
readiness at all times two
best-quality rubber cata-
pults (with spare forks
for same), and some sharp
instrument . or tool suit-
able for stabbing, provided
always that in lieu of said
instrument a stick or
mallet may be retained
suitable for bashing.
Furthermore every citi-
zen soldier shall (unless
exempted by the Chief
Storeman, Defence Department) provide him-
self with the following standard equipment:
Frying-pan, billy, knife, fork, spoon, plate,
mug, hot-water bottle or thermos, cholera
belt, mosquito-net, mittens, and, in the case
of Tasmanians and Victorians, snow-shoes;
all other States, sandshoes.
On a call to arms being made citizens shall
report to the nearest public house, where
platoons will be formed and a pre-selection
ballot for officers held. Names of the latter,
with certificates of standing in Labor move-
ment. signed by two union secretaries, shall
then be submitted to the Department of
Defence, Canberra, together with a deposit
of one guinea. Mark envelopes “Tender for
Commission.”
Owners of homing pigeons and poultry
farms, politicians and shareholders in gas
companies will be drafted to the Air Force;
racehorse owners, trainers, jockeys and tin-
hare directors to the cavalry; car and lorry
owners, who must provide at least one shot-
gun and ammunition, to artillery ; all others
to clerical staff.
God Save the King (and Australia) !
Angus O’Coiien.
* *
“Public opinion insists that Bradman shall make
a century in the next Test.”
It’s an absolute Brad-mandate.
tf. #
QUERY.
If female intuition’s such
A.s coarser man can never touch,
What need has my old Dutch
To question me so much?
P. Pawnticket.
CHAINS AND SLAVERY.
“Australia a free country?” Perkins
.snarled. “I tell you it’s not!
“Free country! You can’t be born with-
out a certificate, and you can’t be buried
without one. You have to get permission
to drive a car, and then drive it where you’re
told. You mustn’t go down this street, you
mustn’t go up that, you can’t park where
you please, go where you like or as fast
as you like. Just take a look about this
blasted city, and you’ll see what a free
country it is! ‘No Smoking,’ ‘Don’t Spit,’
‘Trespassers will be Prosecuted,’ ‘Keep off
the Grass,’ ‘Keep to the Left,’ ‘No Loitering,’
'Post no Bills,’ and dozens of other don’ts.
Aw, but what’s the use of talkin’ about it ?
Fill ’em up again, Fairy. Two more pints.”
“Sorry, old dear, it's too late. Six o'clock,
gents. All out!”
W. P.T.
* *
“The bride and bridegroom are both employees
in a boot factory.”
And there it was they clicked.
* *
AMATEUR STATUS.
From the “Sporting Review” of 1950:
The Plumbing Board of Control is to consider the
case of Bladman next Tuesday night. Bladman's
services to the sport of plumbing have been such
that it would be a calamity if he were omitted from
the Test matches with the English plumbing team.
The Board may consider that his employment under
“So she’s been talkin' about me behind me back, has she?"
“Yus, she has.”
“What a bonzer time you two must ’ve ad!”
a dual contract with the N.S.W. Cricket Co., Ltd.,
and the Australian Baseball Ass., Incorp., is a
distinct breach of its rule on the subject.
The N.S.W. Cricket Co. is prepared to release
Bladman from all cricketing engagements during the
plumbing season.
The amateur status of the garbage-removing
champion, Dawford, has been questioned. A position
with Randerlev Lawn Tennis, Ltd., at a salary of
£2OOO per annum was given to him on -the under-
standing that he would play with the Randerley
garbage-removal team. The fact is that there is r t
a champion-class garbage-remover in all Australia
who is a lily-white amateur.
Genial Bill Floggem is concerned about the possi-
bility of the withdrawal of his license to drive as
an amateur on Australian delivery-van runs. The
trouble arises from the popular Bill having accepted
a paid position as No. 1 board man with Ludo
(of Australia), Ltd. He is regarded as a skilled
w-orker in this industry. Bill declares he has no
wish to drive as a professional.
IT. M.
¥ *
SEEING THE SIGHTS.
The visitor clung fearfully to his guide.
Cold beads of perspiration trickled down his
ashen face, and with trembling fingers he
pointed to the corpses leering at them as
they dangled from their gibbets by the road-
side.
“Surely,” he stammered in husky tones,
“this is not possible in the twentieth cen-
tury !” i
“Isn’t it?” snapped his guide. “You start
joking about a Test match in Australia and
you’ll find out. Come along down to the
crossroads and I’ll show you a bloke who
was hanged, drawn and quartered because
a Government spy overheard him say Brad-
man was a spent force. We have burnt at
the stake over two hundred dam’ fools who
started cheering when England won the
first Test. Our gaols are packed with
traitors who are awaiting trial under the
new Cricket War Precautions Act.
“But let’s hurry back to town or we’ll
miss the public execution of the umpire who
gave Hammond not out when O’Reilly
appealed. After that we can hop across
to the opening of the ‘Sun’s’ School of Aus-
tralian Barracking. Yabba, the Director-in-
Chief, is expected to make a bonzer speech.”
D. McM.
the shoppers.
"I loathe these trains.”
‘‘So do 1. What a shame about that fuji
frock!”
“Fares, please !•”
“Wasn’t it? But, of course, I had to get
it right.”
“Of course. But I do think the locknit
scantees and pantees are sweet. And that
marocain two-piece is sinrply ducky.”
“I’m glad you like it.* Shall we get out
at Blobb and Blink’s?”
“Fares, please!”
“No. We’ll go right on to Bourke-street.
I’m so tired of standing up.”
“Me, too!”
“Jack says it serves me right, travelling
at the peak hour when tired workers want
to sit down. Aren’t men selfish?”
“Aren’t they?”
“Fares, please.”
“Oh, here’s a seat!”
“You sit down.”
“No. You.”
“I insist!”
"But, really, I prefer to stand. You take
it. I’m not a scrap tired.”
“Neither am I. There! That fat woman
with the baby’s got it. How selfish some
women are!”
“Aren’t they?”
“Fares, please!”
“I believe that beastly conductor means
us !”
“The idea! What impertinence! Oh, here’s
our corner at last!”
“O-o-o-oh ! What a relief !”
Norbell.
NECK AND NOTHING.
“Three members of the West S. lvilda life-saving
club were each fined £1 with 2s. 6d. costs for lower-
ing their bathing costumes to sunbake. Mr. Young,
J.P., said he favored a much higher fine.”
Scene: St. Kilda.
•Susie Stripper and Naneye de Vest become
panicky while swimming.
Susie : “Save me ! Save me ! Save me !”
Nancye: “Help! Help! Hellup!”
Lifesaver : “Keep cool, girls.”
Susie and Nancye: “Go away at once,
you shameless wretch !”
Lifesaver: “What the Why the”
Susie : “Go away at once! We’d rather
drown.”
Lifesaver: “But —but— can you swim?”
Nancye: “No. certainly not! But there’s
three inches of your—oh !—bare skin show-
ing.”
Slie swoons, and is dragged ashore.
Susie : “Don’t touch me ! Don't dare
Ooh ! Ah-h-h ! Chook !”
She faints, and is lugged ashore.
Scene II: In the Stalls.
Susie : “Pretty bum show, don’t you
think?” i
Nancye (yawning) : “Yes, rather. Not
nearly as decollete as usual.”
Susie : “No. Hardly a bally leg showing.
I must say I like a little of the native buff
in these shows. What do you think of my
new frock?”
Nancye: “Simply It, my dear!”
Susie: “Yes. Only two crossed straps at
the back supporting a minimum of bodice in
front.”
Nancye : “Beautiful, darling, but they tell
me the very last word from London is a
brassiere evening gown of soft metal tissue—
and a skirt of course L”
• N. 0.
CAR SALESMAN: “Yes, you’ll find you’ll be
able to drive your cares away with this
'bus, sir!”
DOUR CUSTOMER: “Maybe, bid I bet I’ll
still hear her giving advice from the
back seat.”
LINUS TO A LEG OF MUTTON.
They say a cabbage has a soul.
And sheep are undeveloped men.
If this be true of you and me,
O tender juicy leg! what then?
Have I been you? Will you be I?
Or have we both been worms or fish ?
Was I once served as you are now?
And did I tasty dish?
And is it written that our paths
.- In some dim aye again shall cross?
Let’s give it up! My head’s awhirl.
Besides, here comes flic caper sauce!
G. L.


TSTZ
■
:■ v
iHiiti'
clocl^
7
o
m
MARK
NOS
PATENT
272763
272629
wri:
: £ : s
ID
a
jasSi:^'
a
m
0
t&*
&
IB
D
*
ill
These new blades have been a triumph!
No one thought it possible to make
such perfect blades at so low a price.
Users are telling us that they realise at
last what a safety razor shave can be.
Keenness beyond words. Velvety, glid-
ing smoothness. And the price five
for a shilling and sixpence! Try them.
Every dealer sells Seven o’clock blades
for double-edged razors.
DOUBLE EDGED
\
MADE IN ENGLAND
The best way to do all your typing
easily, quickly and legibly, is on .
2#
The
British
Imperial
GOOD
£l 9/19/-
Terms Available.
COMPANION
Portable
Ask for full particulars from the nearest agent:
L. DOBELL & CO., LTD., IMPERIAL TYPEWRITER SALES CO., GEO. RAITT & CO. PTY., LTD.,
43 Creek Street, Brisbane. 22 Martin Place, Sydney. 40 Queen Street, Melbourne.
OFFICE EQUIPPERS, LTD., . JOHNSON & HEY, OFFICE SUPPLIES CO.,
Gawier Place, Adelaide. Hunter Street, Newcastle. 105 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
BURRIDGE & WARREN, LTD., 69 King Street, Perth.
HOWARD HOTEL, LONDON
NORFOLK STREET, STRAND, W.C.2.
In the hub of London life, close to all Theatres.
You mnv pay high prices, but you cannot obtain more perfect service, better, cuisine,
finer wines, more comfortable and artistic rooms. The private bath rooms and suites
are definitely unequalled. Yet you can have bedroom, bath, and full breakfast for
12/6. Of course, every room has central heat, hot and cold water and telephone.
These are necessities. It is the additional luxuries you find at the Howard which
you will appreciate. Many thousands of pounds have been again spent on new
decorative effects, making- the Howard
AN HdTEL OF RARE BEAUTY
Send for Illustrated Booklet to “The Bulletin,” Sydney.
HANDY HINTS
for the
FARM
A selection of 1 000 hints and other
information reprinted from the “Man
on the Land” pages of “The Bulletin.”
Price 1/-, posted 1/2
From the Head Office of The Bulletin, 252 George
Street, Sydney; or from any branch office —Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Wellington (N.Z.).
m
y
i
a
mi: ?
Backache, Rheumatism
Kidney Trouble
is ttie real cause and danger!
“My word ! How splendid it is to be fit again.
Free from the old torturing rheumatic pains, no more
sleepless nights, no more feeling tired in every limb, no
longer worried with irritating bladder trouble ... Why,
I’m a new man ! Yes ! Yes ! You can get back health
and youthful vigour if you follow this advice.”
It is no use relying on outside help to end a trouble
that lies within the system. What you must do is
prompt the kidneys to healthy action, and there is no
better, no quicker, surer means of doing this than by
starting with De Witt’s Pills to-day. These famous
pills cleanse away all pain-giving impurities and in j
a few days their splendid tonic powers will make A
you feel and look years younger. A
This Remedy hears a Guarantee
No ridiculous cure-all properties are claimed
for De Witt’s Pills. They are made for the one
purpose only —of ending the
pain and weakness caused by
Kidney Trouble and rebuilding
manly vigour. They give in-
stant relief in cases of Bladder
Trouble. Their effect can be . „ _ , „ M 1
seen in 24 hours—this is a definite guarantee. DeWitts will
not only rid you of your pain but bring you back to youthful
vigour and vitality. De Witt’s Pills are sold only in the white,
blue and gold box, price 3/6, or more economical size, 6/6.
This 40-year-old remedy is confidently recommended in all
cases of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Backache, Weak Kidneys,
Bladder Trouble, Lumbago, Loss of Vigour. Don’t put off
until to-morrow the health you can have to-day. Go to your
chemist now. Ask for and see you get the genuine
m m
3
De WITTS
KIDNEY
AND BLADDER
Hever
Sold Loose
PILLS
Price
3/6 and 6/6
YES !
That is the answer
tens of thousands of
people once crippled
with kidney weak-
ness, backache or
bladder trouble, now
in splendid health,
would give if you said
“Will DeWitt’s Pills
really do me good ? ”
If in 24 hours you do
not see results, return
partly used bottle—
your money will be
refunded in full. But
De Witt’s Pills will
not fail you. Good
for young or old—the
very weak. Can be
taken by women at
all times. Be sure you
get the genuine De
Witt’s Pills—there is
nothing just as good.


Mick Simmons
RIFLE
%
AND
ii
AMMUNITION
I wcvy /
SPECIALISTS
Sgg&| %
. fF •
World-Famous
Shot Guns
No. 3 HOLLIS’ “THE.
RELIABLE” D. 8.8. L-
GUN, 12 0., top lever, bar action,
32in. steel barrels, both choke, re-
bounding locks, X bolt, snap fore-
end, half pistol grip, walnut stock;
weight about 7flb. . . £l5/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 4 HOLLIS’ D.8.8.L.
G\JN, 120., top lever, 32in.
barrels, both choke, X bolt. Similar
to No. 3 but lighter build.
Weight about 71b £,13
Carriage Paid.
No. 18-THE CERT D.8.8.e.
steel barrels, left choke, ex-
tension rib, bar locks, X bolt,
walnut stock, pistol
grip .. . . £4/15/0
Carriage Paid.
No. 19 CERT D.8.8.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12
gauge, 3Qin. steel barrels, choke,
Greener X bolt (A. &
D. actionj £7/12/0
Carriage Paid.
WORLD-FAMOUS
SPORTING RIFLE- .
ŵ
No. 1 THE MAINE
RIFLE, 22-cal., bolt
action, fitted with plain
V-back sight; for short, long
or long-rifle cartridges.
Round barrel, 18in. long,
bored and rifled with the
same care as the military
weapon, and guaranteed
accurate; weight
about 3 -J-lb 24/9
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6
No. 2 THE MAINE
SPECIAL BOLT
ACTION RIFLE,
22-cal., take-down, with
safety bolt. For short, long
or long-rifle cartridges; 2 1 in.
round barrel; weight
about 3flb. ...... 35/**
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6
No. 12 WINCHES-
TER. SINGLE SHOT
RIFLE, MODEL GO,
for 22 short, long or long-
rifle rimfire cartridges; 23in.
round steel barrel, one-piece
pistol grip stock, bolt action,
ladder rear- and gold bead
front-sight; weight
4*ib 50-
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-
No. lO - STEVENS 9
“FAVORITE”
RIFLE, 22, 25 or 32
calibres, R.F. round 24in.
barrel, case-hardened frame,
solid breech block, take-
down action, open front- and
sporting rear-sights;
weight 51b 70 -
Carriage Paid.
No. 25-REMING-
TON RIFLE, No. 33
MODEL, bolt action, 22
calibre, rimfire, 24in. round
blued-steel barrel; weight
4^lb.; ladder rear-
sight 50/-
Postage 2/3; Other States, 4/-
Write for illustrated detailed Shooting List.
All Letters to Box .78b, P. 0., Haymarket,
Sydney.
MickSimmonsltd.
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“The Premier Sports House of Australia”
Don’t Invite Danger—lnstal a
Billabong Bush Fire Pump
ẁ
The Billabong Low-Down Hand Ratchet Pump is
a low-priced pump for most pumping purposes on
station, farm or orchard, including that of fire pump.
It is double-acting and furnished with an air chamber
to increase power and volume. The ratchet
arrangement reduces fatigue. The pump is compact
and may be bolted to a plank for portability.
The Billabong discharges up to 500 gallons per hour
and throws a jet of water forty feet.
FORESTALL DANGER. WRITE
FOR PARTICULARS ON THIS
OR OTHER PUMPING MATTERS. s
WE KNOW YOUR NEEDS AND
QUOTE THE MOST EFFICIENT
PUMP AT THE LOWEST PRICE.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD
324*330 Pitt Street
SYDNEY.
391*403 Bourke Street
MELBOURNE.
&
O'
///I
///M
e
«
Mr
i
ggg
m
m
xm
SsS
PS
*5l
H I
'ij£v. v‘
xssm
si
•••:•:■•
ift?S
l>M!
7/s
I
K
S
win
v\\\\\
K Pi
1
3SaHß«s^Ss!s®f
~' 1-
■y' ■ :
\\\
W£Z£
% im'P
ww
K
>&
®gSs;*». n&sw"*. *
mwr
iV»v\ 'ss^'y,';
-
iitllllllllliiia IUUIi! 11 V
Coolness, Comfort and Variety combine on every P. and O. steamer
to make a perfect holiday at sea. The magnificent salt water
swimming pools, the wide sheltered decks, the excellent cuisine, and
the up-to-date punkah louvre system of ventilation in saloons and
cabins are some of the main features.
MOLDAVIA (Tourist),
From Sydney, January 28.
CATHAY (Ist & 2nd),
From Sydney, February 10.
MONGOLIA (Tourist),
From Sydney, February 24.
(And fortnightly thereafter.)
First and
Second
Saloon
Fares have
been
substantially
reduced.
Agents
in all
States
and
New
Zealand
ẃ
POML 1


ẅ
PERFECT INSULATIONLONGER LIFE
fa DIAMOND RADIO BATTERIES/
-$A' t
INS.
'T'HE interna! insulation of a radio
battery is vitally important. In any
battery, a leakage of electricity or chemi-
cals may occasionally occur from one
cell. If this affects other cells the
battery quickly fails.
Now—Diamond embodies a new. ex-
clusive insulation material, used in a
new way. It is proof against either
chemical or electrical leak-
age. It isolates every cell,
and absolutely removes any
chance of a leakage spreading. It is
the only 100% perfect insulation made!
The illustration at right shows the new
Diamond method of isolating each cell
in a perfectly insulated compartment, en- f
tirely protected from leakage on sides
and bottom. It is at the base of the ceUsl
where corrosion is most dangerous. JNo
other battery protects this danger spot.
“Perfect Insulation ” gives Diamond
many months of extra life.
w
RADIO
BATTERIES — TORCH
REFILLS
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
CROP COMPETITIONS.
“Jay, Gee”: Fallow and crop competitions
have come to stay in N. S. Wales, but as
hitherto conducted they are not doing as
much to improve farming methods as is
supposed. For one thing, the 50-acre limit
is too small. In cases which have come
under my notice special attention has been
given to the selected 50 acres, the balance of
the fallow being more or less neglected. Of
course there are competitors who keep the
whole of their fallow in tip-top condition,
but in my experience they are in a minority.
I have known a cocky with a doctored plot
to win a prize and thus achieve a reputation
outside his own locality, when, taking him
by and large, he was a slipshod farmer.
Points are allowed for cleanliness, trueness
to type, freedom from disease and the like,
and also for the number of years the land
has been cropped or has lain idle; but there
is no deduction where the crop is grown
on two-year fallow. Prize's have been given
to growers of crops on fallowed land that
was submerged by the rainfall and floods
of the 1931 winter and could not be cropped
that year. This fallow was again put in
first-class condition as soon as weather con-
ditions would allow, find was thus in extra-
special heart for the 1932 season. It would
not pay, even if prices were much higher,
to grow wheat by adopting such methods, so
it would be only just to_ deduct points from
all two-year fallow entries.
I say the area to be judged should be
250 acres, not 50 acres. Then we should
have farmers who consistently adopt thor-
ough methods of cultivation winning tro-
phies, and, incidentally, demonstrating to
their less competent neighbors, who under
present conditions occasionally fluke a
prize, that it pays to be fair to the whole
of the fallow rather than strive for publicity
by pampering a small area. Then likewise
the competitions would justify their exist-
ence and really encourage better methods
of farming. There would be more work for
the judges on individual holdings, but there
would be fewer individual holdings to judge.
PERENNIAL RYE-GRASS SEED.
“Specker” : Tas. Dept, of Agriculture also
condemns uncertified seed from Maoriland
sold as perennial rye-grass (B. 28/12/’32).
The inferiority of the seed, which is of a
false-perennial type, is attributed partly to
its being harvested from newly-sown pastures
and partly to the crossing of the strain
with Italian rye-grass. Certified mother-
seed from Maoriland is excellent but costly
—3os. per bushel last season. It is pro-
duced only from verv old pastures.
The shorter-lived ‘ the plant, the more
freely it seeds. Consequently, in new pas-
tures the proportion of short-lived seed
would increase each year. Certified mother-
seed from Maoriland has been tried in vari-
ous parts of the Speck and has proved in
every way satisfactory, not only as regards
growth, but also in standing up to droughty
conditions.
To encourage farmers to establish their
own seed-plots of mother-seed the Tas. de-
partment has introduced a certification
scheme on the same lines as that in prac-
tice in M.L. The presence of Italian rye-
grass and of hybrid seed among the pure
perennial rye-grass can now be detected by
a fluorescence emitted by the roots of the
impure : seedlings when examined under
screened ultra-violet light. By this test
seed can be graded with considerable accu-
racy, and Tas. certified seed should find a
ready market.
SOWING PASPALUM SEED.
“A.C.8.” : To get the best results it should
be done whilst the burn is hot. Choose a
central position, where the full quantity ot
seed required can be stacked. Chaff bags
should be split partly down to form a pocket
in which to carry seed (not so much as to
cause inconvenience) ; the other ends may
be strapped over the shoulders. The sower
should walk with an even stride and throw
seed each side of him as he goes forward,
at the same time noting the position he is
sowing on. He will need to take into
account the way the wind is blowing, and,
if other persons are sowing, to see ♦hat he
is working in unison with them so that there
may be no overlapping of seed. Select some
mark to walk towards.
Some like fairly-thick sowing, but this
largely depends on what kind of a burn has
been secured. Where there are many logs,
obviously not so much seed will be neces-
sary. A burn should be good enough to
leave the land fairly clear of all but the
large logs. It should not be too hard or the
soil surface is deteriorated. A bad burn,
or one where a lot of small stuff is passed
by and not consumed, will nearly always
give a lot of trouble later by producing a
crop of inkweed and other rubbish. It is
difficult to get a good strike on this sort
of burn. . , ~,
Faspalum seed should be lightly rubbed as
it is sown, as it has a tendency to stick
together. Nice plump-looking seed will
almost invariably germinate well. By hav-
ing seed stacked centrally a lot of time in
walking is saved.
A DOLLAR A SKIN.
Many farmers and graziers get precious
little for their sheepskins. B. J. Stocks, ot
Linden Kills, Curringar (N.S.W.), is an
exception. He sent to Sydney a six months
collection of skins from one-quarter to three-
quarter wools and got an average price of
4s. 2d. a skin, after paying freight, handling
and commission charges amounting to six-
pence. The local price at the time was Is.
Gd. a skin. .
Mr. Stocks’s experience is reported in the
“Agricultural Gazette” by L. Judd, manager
of the Temora experiment farm, and his
methods of treatment are described and re-
commended.
Skins are removed carefully to avoid cut-
ting or flesh being left on the pelt; they are
placed in a shed immediately killing is
iinished, spread out, wool side down, and
treated by painting with an arsenic wash to
prevent damage by weevil. When reasonably
dry, they are stacked, wool side up, one
skin being piled on top of another as high
as they can with ease be stacked. The dry-
ing process carried out in the shade, together
with the stacking, results in a greater weight
being retained in the skin and also a greater
measure of condition and quality. The
arsenic wash is cheap ; for Is. 6d. enough in-
gredients can be purchased to last for several
years. Boil 1 dessertspoon each of arsenic
and washing soda in a pint of water and add
water sufficient to fill an ordinary 71b.
treacle-tin. The mixture can be painted on
with a brush or swab.
Mr. Judd suggests community marketing-,
and branches of organisations like the L ana
S. A. might well consider the matter. Skins
belonging to each individual owner.” the
Temora. manager says, “could be plainly
branded and packed, and then the whole
consignment made into bales and consigned
as one bulk lot. Co-operation along these/
lines would undoubtedly effect a consider-
able saving in cartage arid, particularly, m
freight. Careful branding would enable each
member to be credited with the pioceeds
of his individual produce. A State-wide move
to market better-quality skins must not only
benefit individual producers, but materially
enhance our reputation amongst oversea
buyers.”
THAT “FLY-PROOF” RAM.
“Ento” : A lot of nonsense is being written
about Mrs. Anhauesser’s “fly-proof” ram. Un-
fortunately the facts do not bear out the
enthusiasm expressed by FY< (-B.
28/12/’32). Only one experiment has been
performed on the ram at the Brisbane Ani-
mal Health Station. The ewe with it was
struck before the two were put together, not
afterwards. Nor will the investigation work
in progress lead to a cure of the blowfly
trouble. It may lead to a better understand-
ing of the relationship between the fly, the
fleece and the flyblow. The matter has to
be put on a scientific basis first. a
A ewe picked out as being also fly-proot
was subsequently shown to have been
struck at the time of the picking, bo tar
there is no development of general interest
to report.
WOOL COUNTS. .
“Jumbuck”: Regarding the table given
by “Tops” (B. 21/12/’32), what the wool-
buying countries call a 60’s or a 64’s matters
little; The essential fact is that wool ot
a certain fineness will spin a certain length
of spun yards or metres to the pound weight..
The grower just needs to know the ground-
work of the 'business, so that he can distin-
guish between a sheep that cuts a fleece
of uniform fineness and one that differs in
quality in the neck, body and breech poi -
dons. The finer the wool the higher the
spinning properties; this realised, growers
may concentrate on standardising theii
owes in order to try to breed sheep whose
fleeces are as uniform in quality as possible.
We call black wool black. The French
call it noir This does not alter the lact that
the wool is black all the world over. Like-
wise, a wool of a certain spinning quality
still spins the same length of yarn, no
matter what the wool-buying countries term
it in the grease. What is needed is to
impress on sheepmen the desirability of
having their wool prepared for market with
due regard for uniformity of quality. JNo
two fleeces are alike, and most of them vary
in qualitv from the neck to the breech.
The present svstem of classing will not over-
come this difficulty; sorting in sheds by
practical men will.
HAPPY-GO-LUCKY WAYS.
“Franc”: “5.11. E.” (B. 14/12/’32) is
right in saying that the pastoral industry
will have to become more efficient and eco-
nomical. I have worked with and moved
among pastoralists and wheat-farmers tor a
number of years, and in many cases have
marvelled at their happy-go-lucky
Nor are the men solely to blame. 1 heard
the wife of a squatter, heretofore well-to-do,
complain about the price she has to pay
for vegetables for her family of seven and
five hands. Yet she kept the rouseabout
at work half his day growing her prize
flowers, watered by windmill —with a never-
failing river 50 yards away!
Often I have been told about the need
for spending large sums each year in replac-
ing shears, hammers, knives, wire-strainers
and the like (they have been mis mid, it
seems, by careless employees), also stores
of boits and nuts, spare parts, ropes that
can never be found when required, and petrol,
oil and kerosene that have mysteriously dis-
appeared or have been rendered useless
through being stored in dirty places. When
I asked what steps had been taken to
prevent further losses I generally met with
cold stares, suggesting that it was none
of my business. The way to prevent leakages
is to have a storeroom close to the. home-
stead, with a set place for each article on
wall or shelf, and a locked door, the key
kept by some person who is constantly at
the homestead. Each employee should be
given a number, and when a tool is borrowed
a tag with, the receiver’s number should be
put in the vacant place. This enables the
storeman to refresh the user s memory should
he fail to return it. Similarly, petrol, oil.
kerosene and spares should be kept and sup-
plied under supervision. The savings on
these items alone repay the cost ot the
storeroom in a very short time.
\ ga in each emplovee should be allotted
certain paddocks and be held responsible for
the good condition of fencing, gates and
windmills, for supplies of water and licks,
and for reports as to condition of sheep.
This, if there is good stuff in him, would
give him an interest in his job and a dcsne
to oxcol, which arc lacking where haphazard
methods obtain. And book-keeping will have
to be appraised at its proper value, instead
of being regarded as a vexatious aid to the
Government in the collection of its taxes.
Above* all, an end will have to be made of that
neglect of costly implements and machinery
which puzzles every stranger with an inquir-
ing mind. Why DO men on the land stack
their sheds with worthless junk—broken-
down carts, rusty tanks and tins, and so
forth —while they leave tractors, binders,
headers and stationary engines out in pad-
docks to rot and rust, without sometimes
even a bag or two for covering?
POLLED CATTLE IN N.Q.
“Beefo”: There is nothing new in the
story that polled cattle are preferred at
Queensland meatworks (B. 7/12/’32). It
is years since the cos. began furnishing
figures to show that polled cattle graded
better than the hornies. Nevertheless,
Shorthorns and Herefords, with horns like
sliprails, are still considered by old-timers
to be the ideal beef cattle.
Red and Black Polls were given a thorough
trial on a couple of north-western stations.
The first drought was their undoing. They
couldn’t knock down sufficient mulga to
keep them alive, and where the hornies
lived the poleys died. All the same, there s
no reason why facilities should not be pro-
vided at trucking centres for horns to be
tipped. The time taken and the labor ex-
pended would be amply returned in results
from the works.
mineral deficienc y.
“Bahb Dwyer” : Bone-chewing, stiff joints
and other results of mineral deficiency
frequently receive incorrect treatment. It’s
no u£e top-dressing with lime if the trouble
is phosphorus deficiency, nor expecting
improvement from a lick to which the cattle
are not used. Most of the natural pastures
in our dairying districts are deficient in
phosphorus. Bran is rich in phosphorus,
and where a grain mixture is allowed all
the year round of which bran forms, say.
25 per cent., no trouble should be experi-
enced. Top-dressing with super, is highly
desirable; so is a system of grazing and
resting paddocks in rotation, combined with
harrowing and top-dressing- —in lact, this
is the ideal system for high production.
Young shoots contain much more protein
than older grass, the growth of clovers rich
in lime is encouraged, and the cattle receive
the minerals applied in top-dressing in the
most desirable way possible through the
pasturage.
* Where recourse is had to a lick, it may
be advisable to educate the cattle up to
taking it. A mixture of, say, 60 parts steri-
lised bonemeal to 40 parts coarse salt is
excellent, but, if Strawberry turns her nose
up at the stuff, mix a little with her feed
till she gets used to it, then let draw
her own ration from the trough- don t. mix
any lick with the feed habitually. Finely-
ground Nauru phosphate may take the place
of the sterilised bonemeal. and frequently
gives as good results at a lower cost. 4 he
quantity of salt may, of course, be vaned
to suit local conditions.
CLEAN FARM SURROUNDINGS.
“Wandi”: Wild oats, which have been
troubling wheatgrowers and others in more
than one State, usually get into the culti-
vated plots from the headlands, where so
many weed' pests originate. In some in-
stances. no doubt, they are introduced
in dirty seed. While growths may oe
eradicated in the ploughed areas, little or
no attention is given to the strips round
them, as along the bank of a creek or gully.
These places are often scrubby, and when
the scrub is cut down up come many sorts
of weeds hitherto unknown there. Ihe
scrub, when below the top of the bank, is
no inconvenience to the cultivation, but is
a good protection, and in preventing the
growth of weeds saves the farmer much
annual labor. Cutting it down, when the
ground can’t be used for cultivating or graz-
ing. is simply making a nursery for pests.
Along the rivers, where various crops are
grown, or mixed farming is carried on, there
is a good deal of waste ground that cant
be turned even into pasture on account of
the nature of the banks. In the majority
of instances this ground is weed-grown,
often with vefy pestilent weeds, and year
after year the seeds are carried on to the
cultivation. It is not kept clean because
the farmer gets no good from that strip ot
land. Rut think of all the harm it does, and
the work it entails by spreading the noxious
seeds among his crops.
Originally there were no weed pests along
the creek- and river-sides. Nearly all the
evil growths that worry the farmer and
grazier were introduced from other countries.
One by one they got a footing on some
farm, and thence were spread by floods,
birds or animals, or intermixed with farm
seeds and everywhere allowed to grow
without check. Instead of letting the plants
seed and spending much time and labor
later on in getting rid of the new crop in
the cultivation, give that time to clearing
the waste strip. You can hasten the job
by burning cut dry stuff on uncut green
stuff. When cleared, sow grass or thickly
plant with trees.
A periodic inspection of the surroundings
of any farm is a wise precaution, particu-
larly if there is dirty land in the neighbor-
hood, or if the borders are subject to floods.
When any strange plant is noticed, discover
what it is or destroy it at once. It may
be something that later will cause a lot of
trouble in the lucerne, oats and wheat.
Clean surroundings mean less labor in the
cultivation, and often better crops and better
prices.
IRRIGATION METHODS.
“7346”: According to “Woorinen” (B.
14/12/’32), “all irrigations must be managed
so as to wet only the upper two or three
feet of soil.” This is not so easy to effect.
Four field committees were employed to
classify practically every farm on the M.I.A.,
a job that took over three years. They found
that soil profiles, mechanical structures, sur-
face contours and presence of salts, beneficial
or harmful, varied from farm to farm, and
even from acre to acre. On one farm I held
for 10 years the top soil ranged in depth
from 6ft. to 1ft. in 10 chains. It would be
ridiculous to treat all this little block in the
same manner.
The Irrigation Commission has established
nn Investigation Branch under the chairman-
ship of a distinguished Australian agricul-
tural scientist. This branch, together with
the Commonwealth Citrus Research Station
at Griffith, is doing fine work in, elucidating
some of the problems with which, M.I.A.
settlers are faced. The settlers, I should
say, have given up politicians as a bad job
and are working in with the scientists.
On certain types of heavy clay soils with
flat contours, where wine grapes are often
planted, the problem is how to get the water
into the root-feeding zone. This is often
achieved by a liberal dressing of gypsum.
The clay bands are also fractured as deeply
and as often as practicable with a mouldboard
(Continued on next page.)


S5
i
\
For feet hard to fit
Made in four fittings for each full
or half size, this Abbey Shoe solves
the problem for those hard to fit.
Its upper curves over the instep....
lies snugly without the least tightness.
This shoe, too, is extra pliant, with
a sole that gives maximum service.
ORDER BY POST.
State whether you need narrow,
medium, wide or extra-wide fitting,
and order, also, the correct Abbey
Preservative Polish (6d. per tin), or
a handy cleaning outfit (2/6).
BLACK VELOUR CALF, 39/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW GEORGE
STREET ADDRESS—No. 316—
ALMOST DIRECTLY OPPOSITE
THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS :
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 316
Legal Notices.
|N THE SUPREME COURT OF
* TASMANIA.
IN EQUITY.
In the Estate of WILLIAM MARSHMAN
late of Evandale in Tasmania Con-
tractor Deceased.
PURSUANT to the order of His Honor the
* Chief Justice made the Seventeenth day of
November one thousand nine hundred and
thirty-two ALL, PERSONS claiming to be
NEXT OF KIN of the abovenamed deceased
are required to send particulars of such claims
to the executor SAMUEL MARSHMAN in care
of his Solicitors Messrs. Gatenby Johnson and
Walker of Commercial Bank of Australia
Chambers Collins and Elizabeth Streets Hobart
ON OR BEFORE THE TWENTY-EIGHTH
DAY OF FEBRUARY ONE THOUSAND
NINE HUNDRED AND THIRTY-THREE.
This notice is particularly directed to the
descendants of CATHERINE DAVIS deceased
who was married firstly to one HEATH
and subsequently on the Fourth day of
November one thousand eight hundred and
fifty at Evandale in Tasmania to WILLIAM
MARSHMAN (Senior) deceased.
Dated this Third day of December one
thousand nine hundred and thirty-two.
GATENBY, JOHNSON & WALKER,
Of Commercial Bank of Australia
Chambers,
Collins and Elizabeth Streets, Hobart,
Solicitors for the said Samuel Marshman.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO RADIO RECEIVING SYSTEMS.
’"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 28829/29 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above,
or for the granting of a license to make,
use and vend the invention within the Com-
monwealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO ELECTRIC SWITCHES.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 15851/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above,
or for the granting of a license to make,
use and vend the invention within the Com-
monwealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
FARM ACCOUNTS
A Textbook on Farm Book-keeping,
with helpful articles reprinted from
“The Bulletin’s” Land Page.
PRICE 6d. Postage 2d. extra.
Obtainable from "The Bulletin*' Office,
all States.
BRITAIN —MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman” —7-1 hours’ non-step run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
UP ON THE SKY-LINE
in CANADA'S
ROCKIES
Banff is reached only via
Canadian Pacific. Go
this way to England for
greater variety and com-
fort, and freedom from
travel worries.
32/15
On the Way to England
ŵ
Above an the
world, in the vast
Canadian Rockies
you’ll find Banff —magnificent
resort of a thousand attrac-
tions. In this wonderland of
snowcapped peaks, jade forests, and
tonic air, is the palatial Banff
Springs Hotel with every modern
comfort for guests —a warm
sulphur swimming pool the
world’s highest golf course a
whirl of social events and many
things besides to make your stay
here worth while. Lake Louise,
too, is but 45 miles away. Write
for illustrated booklets and details.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN
PAC I F I C
World’s Greatest Travel System
TRAINS - HOTELS - STEAMSHIPS
plough, the mouldboard being removed. The
land is then flooded for three or four days
about three times in the watering season.
But such a practice might kill every tree in
a citrus grove planted on light sandy loam,
wnere the problem is not how 7 to make the
w 7 ater penetrate but to prevent it penetrating
to the w r ater-table. In some cases on the
latter types of soil settlers have abandoned
furrow irrigation and have adopted quick
floodings between small check banks, thrown
up easily by a type of crowder evolved for
the purpose. This is in the form of an in-
verted V and may be drawn by tw 7 o horses.
Loose top soil is gathered between the open
arms and is spilled into a check bank at the
tail of the implement; a disc coulter keeps
the arms against the draught. One settler
uses a large mallee fork on which is placed
a 100-gallon tank of water for ballast. Two
cheek banks are thrown up by drawing the
fork sledge-fashion; in this case, the arms
throw out, instead of crowding in. the loose
top soil into check banks. By quick flood-
ing with a strong head of water it is pos-
sible to wet the top soil to tw 7 o or three feet
without adding to the water-table. The
scheme lias the advantage that all the top
soil is wetted.
Planting of deep-rooting legumes between
rows helps, in some cases, to “pump” the
water-table out. Spray irrigation is the
safest method of all for “touchy” soils. The
initial cost places it beyond tin l purses of
most growers; but the spray irrigationist
has no worries about his flatter contours
receiving too much water and his minor hill-
sides receiving too little, and on the lighter
loams, so desirable for vegetables or citrus,
sultanas and peaches, he must come out on
top in the end. Spray irrigation is less
costly than tile drainage and obviates loss
of land devoted to ditches —incidentally, a
constant source of weed infestation. As for
citrus, a grove responds remarkably to a
little artificial rain during hot winds, and
the dropping of most of the immature crop
in December may be averted by this means.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from, Service Department.)
How to treat sheep suffering from malig-
nant oedema? —3813.
Most cases are fatal and treatment is
usually useless. Sometimes a sheep will re-
cover, more particularly if the infection has
occurred on the lower parts of the legs, as
such situations are not favorable for the
spread of the swelling. In the case of valu-
able stud sheep, and where the disease is
observed at an early stage, an attempt may
be made to treat the case by cutting freely
into the swelling and applying hydrogen
peroxide (one part to three parts of water),
Or a 5 per cent, solution of carbolic acid.
Preventive measures are dealt with in a
leaflet issued by the N.S.W. Agricultural Dept.
Hole to prevent tobacco-stem borers
attaching tobacco plants? —3Bol.
Spray w 7 itlf a solution of lib. of arsenate
of lead powder in . 40 gallons of water, or
dust with lib. of arsenate of lead mixed
with 91b. of hydrated lime. Clean cultiva-
tion is also a factor in the control of the*
pest. AH vegetable refuse should be burnt.
(1) What variety of passion-fruit gives
the best returns? (2) Is banana passion-
fruit advisable? (3) Do you suggest mam-
moth passion-fruit? —3Bo9.
(1) The ordinary common passion (Passi-
flora edulis). (2) It is grown in very small
quantities and is not exactly popular, for
its pulp lacks the rich flavor of Passiflora
edulis, and it is not very productive. (3)
This is of attractive, large appearance, but
the pulp frequently does not fill the cavity
and the vines are not very heavy producers.
How can / maintain the officiency of a
tank used for the extraction of eucalyptus
oil? —3765.
If the oil should run out of the condens-
ing pipe hot, it is due to either distillation
being conducted too rapidly or too short a
length of under-water piping. Rub off
monthly the accumulation of marine growth,
etc., which gathers on the under-water
piping. Make certain that at the termina-
tion of each distillation there is at least
6in. of water left in the tank. If anew
still has just been set up, it will be as well
to inspect the joints in the under-water
piping to ascertain if they require tighten-
ing up. This will be evident by a film of
oil floating upon the surface of the water.
After the termination of two distillations
it is advisable to run off the residue from
the tanks. If allowed to accumulate it be-
comes tarry, and, besides burning the bottom
of the tanks, retards distillation. Before
and after each distillation, it is advisable
to pour a bucket of water down the outlet
pipe to make sure that it is clear. If this
is neglected, an explosion may occur. In
repairing old tanks use a drill and not a
punch for making holes.
I have just bought a two-months pointer
puppy. How should it be fed and cared for?
—3572.
Feed him on milk and boiled oatmeal in
the morning, with a piece of raw meat at
night and plenty of fresh water. See he
gets plenty of exercise. Give him a bone
or two occasionally, which will help him
when teething. See he has a kennel with
straw for bedding, and keep the straw clean.
Don’t make a house dog of him, especially
if you Want him for gun work. An occa-
sional bath with soap and water will do him
no harm, but don’t put lySol in the bath
to kill the fleas; it might kill the dog.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Corio”: Where grass-seeds have been
troublesome it will pay fat-lamb breeders
to shear the belly wool of all the rams. This
can be done w 7 hen the ewes go to the shed
for crutching; the cost will be covered by
the sale of the crutchings. Kerosene or
castor oil is a soothing remedy for the eyes
after grass-seeds have been removed.
“Minthall”: Newcomers are apt to lose
the full value of their lucerne. Cut it when
the first flowers appear—don’t wait for the
full bloom —and when the dew is on it; then
you’ll get all the leaf. Rake it next day
into light rows; provided you have the sun,
it can go into the shed on the third or fourth
day. Never stook it in the field and don’t
pack it tightly when shedding; let it settle
on its own.
“Cavesson” ; On many holdings there are
unused corners and enclosures which could
produce rye, cocksfoot Or clover seed. The first
seed yield will be light, and the germination
test low, but once established the areas
should be lightly grazed or scythed dowm
occasionally till spring. Seed from eaten-
off plants gives a much higher germination
percentage than that from unchecked
growths. One merit of home-grown seed is
that if your method of treatment does repro-
duce a weed or two, they are local, and you
know' how 7 to deal with them. The pur-
chased article keeps you guessing, and alien
seeds are a possibility even with the best
cleaning processes.
‘‘lvooragai”: Cornstalks, when not dry,
make good feed for horses and cow t s, cut up
with the chaffeutter like sorghum and mixed
with grain or ordinary chaff. A great many
of the stalks, after the corn is pulled, are
sweet and juicy, and w T h'en feed is not plen-
tiful, these should be cut and chaffed before
they get dry.
“Cooramin”: Travelling cattle have a
habit, of sticking to certain positions in the
mob and with particular* mates. Some are
always at the tail, some in the lead ; others
favor right or left flank. By learning these
individually, a drover soon notices when
anything is amiss, for the cattle camp in
the same position as they travel, and the
outsiders are the likeliest to move off at
night.
“Gumblegubbin”: An old adze, with the
blade straightened, makes a capital grubbing
hoe for cutting out shrubs, suckers and hard
or tough-rooted growths. Also for planting
in new scrubland that is full of roots.
“Yarrie”; When making a bark roof,
don't use poles (jockeys and riders), which
is the common bush way of securing the roof.
Chip off the rough loose surface and fasten
the bark dowm with lengths of hoop-iron,
or strain W'ire across and staple it to the
battens. This makes a neater, lighter and
more durable roof.
“Johnno”: A handy contrivance on a
farm where no boar is kept is a light slide—
one made out of a forked sapling answers
the purpose—on which a light crate will
ride secured. Then a sow can be crated
and slided to where she has to go without
knocking her about.
“Kilkivan”; A tip for Fordson tractor
owners. Start the tractor with the cap off
the air washer. Any back fires then do not
throw w r ater all over the place, and the
machine is much easier to start. Screw cap
on immediately the engine starts.
“A.G.8.”: When setting out trees from the
nursery in land with a clay subsoil don’t
dig out basins in the clay to deposit' the
trees in. In wet seasons these become water-
logged and the roots rot off. See that any
hole made in clayey country has some drain-
age ; fill the hole with decayed grass and
leaves. Fruit trees won’t do well if their
feet are in a mudhole.
“Beady”: When felling timber for split-
ting posts use a one-man sft. crosscut saw.
Two men can use it to fell the tree and
then one man to saw it in lengths while
the other does the splitting. A further time-
saver in getting posts is to use an 81b. sledge-
hammer instead of a maul; it’s handier and
quicker. Hard on wedges, certainly, but
the time saved would replace them many
times.
“Chooky”: Culling of layers will .soon
begin. Save all those black hens with a
sprinkling of white on the heads and those
which at last autumn never broke into a full
moult, but were “marbled” with new and
old feathers at once. These two features
have characterised my best layers for many
years.
“Kooragai”: Where fowls run abroad, as
they do on most farms, proper shade should
be provided. Nothing is better than trees,
out in the open, topped to keep them low
and make them spread. Fowls will seek
these in preference to any other shelter in
hot weather. Two of the most suitable trees
are the sugar and mahogany gum. Both
are quick growers, furnish good shade and
are ornamental.
“Corio”: The early-lamb theory was not
a success this year. End-of-the-season prices
for export lamhs rose three to four shillings
over September and October prices.
The Bellefaire dairy farm and stud,
founded 11 years ago at Appin (N.S.W.)
by Walter Burke, of Challis House, Sydney,
is to be disposed of by auction on April 13.’
The stud of pure-bred Jerseys is one of
the most successful in Australia, and its
high-priced stock are sought throughout the
country. At present there are over 50
head. The herd was the first to be officially
tested and declared “tubercle-free” by the
Government, while regular and successful
tests for milk and butter-fat production
have also been made. The farm is offered
complete with stud as a going concern, on a
walk-in, walk-out basis. Or it may be sold
separately; in that case, the herd will be
sold by auction before delivery of the
property.
“Black Mountain”; More joy for the
farmer! Quite recently Mr. J. S. Phillips
came across a plant growing at Baker’s
Swamp, in the Mudgee (N.S.W.) district.
He had seen nothing like it in all his 80-odd
years, so decided to have the stranger identi-
fied. It resembled a number of caterpillars
twisted together, and possessed all the hall-
marks of being a free grower. A specimen
was sent to the Curator of Sydney Botanical
Gardens, who reports that the plant is
Astraga tuskamocus, which comes from
Spain and Tunis and had not previously
been recorded in Australia. Several speci-
mens of the genus are poisonous to stock.
Men on the land would therefore be w 7 ell
advised to keep an eye open for the plant,
and get rid of it.
“Legup”: Most scoured wools offered at
auction are reasonably well scoured, but
occasionally fatty lines are to be seen on
the show floors. On such fatty wools the
grower has to pay more in scouring,
freight and selling charges, besides having
to contend with restricted competition.
Fleece, broken, pieces and bellies should be
scoured to 96 p.c.; stained, crutchings and
locks to 92-94 p.c. Wools scoured to these
conditions retain their Soft handle, and the
grower will get the same price as if the wool
were scoured to 100 p.c.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Information about Theodore Resting, 18, who left
his home, Rose Park, Adelaide, two years ago,
looking for work, and has not since been heard of.
He is well-educated, about 6ft., chin slightly dimpled
and small mole on left upper lip. Probably travel-
ling under assumed name. Family deeply con-
cerned. —3795.
Single man (30), N.S.W., storekeeper and book-
keeper, able to build iron tanks, handy with
plumbers’ and carpenters’ tools, wants position on
station. Refs. —3762.
Ex-South Aus. State schoolteacher seeks position
as governess, anywhere. Refs. —3770.
Married couple, N.S.W., man (40) exp. ploughing,
fencing, milking, all classes farm work, wife exp.
domestic duties, want position together.—3764.
Young man (22), N.S.W., woolclaisser, book-
keeper, can milk and fence, wants job on farm or
station. Refs. —3778.
Ybung man (26), nine years’ exp. wheatgrowing,
wants share farming, horses or tractor. Refs. —3759.
Papua resident wishes to buy pedigree male
Sealyham terrier pup.—3777.
To buy “Christopher Cockle’s Australian Experi-
ences,’’ by J. R. Houlding.—3744.
To buy “The Australian Slang Dictionary” (1895),
by C. Crowe.—3Boo.
Information Sought.
(1) How long was the Great Wall of
China? (2) When was it built? (3)
Dimensions? (4) Method of construction?
(5) Route? —3704.
(1) 2550 miles. (2) Between 300 b.c.
and 200 B.c. (3) 17ft. 6in. thick, 16ft. high.
(4) Face walls of large bricks are filled
in with earth and stones. _ (5) From the
sea at Shankaikwan to a point on the Great
White River, west of Suchow.
(1) When is correct time to plant out
gladioli, freesias, ixias, daffodils and jon-
quils? (2) After the top has died and the
bulbs are taken up, should they be planted
again at once, or stored and planted later?
(3) What price should be charged for gladi-
olus flowers when supplying them to a
shop ? —3688.
(1) Bulbs should be planted between
February and May. (2) Lift the bulbs and
let them dry thoroughly before replanting;
one month at least should be allowed. (3)
The price is a matter for arrangement and
is determined by the size and quality of the
blooms.
The flowers on my shasta daisies are very
small. Is it because the clumps were divided
last year? When is the time to divide them
and the best position in the garden for the
plants? —374l.
Unless the old clumps are divided each
year the blooms will deteriorate. Dig up
the clumps in June and set out the strong
young runners with plenty of roots and a
liberal allowance of manure in the soil.
Shastas do best when set out on the edge of
a garden where there is plenty of soakage.
How did the Commonwealth and each of
the State Governments finish up financially
at the end of the last financial year (1931-
1932) ? What does each estimate will be the
position at June 30, 1933, according to its
Budget?— 37s6.
Commonwealth: Surplus, £1,320,896;
Budget estimates surplus, £12,469. N.S.W.:
Deficit, £13,570 396; Budget estimates defi-
cit, £4,350,000.’ Vic.: Deficit, £1,607,850;
Budget estimates deficit, £851,000. Q’land:
Deficit, £2,075,180; Budget estimates defi-
cit, £1,490,868. S.A.: Deficit. £1,064.000;
Budget estimates deficit, £1,180,000. W.A.:
Deficit, £1,557,896; Budget estimates deficit,
£763,666. Tas.: Deficit, £271,613; Budget
estimates deficit, £124,004.
(1) What is the hardest substance known?
(2) Are there metals harder than pre-
cious stones? (3) How does glass compare
with the hardest steel? —3700.
(1) Diamond. (2) Yes. Armorplate steel
is harder than topaz, beryl, tourmaline,
agate and garnet. (3) Taking the diamond
as 10, glass is rated at 6.5; very hardest
steel at about 8.7.
Occasionally the gums of my dog, who is
very old, bleed freely and apparently with-
out reason. The bleeding is very difficult
to stop. Treatment? —37lB.
Place a bandage rather tightly round the
nose for an hour or more, so that the dog
is unable to open his mouth. If this fails,
the exact spot or spots (there are some-
times several) must be found, and a solution
of adrenalin applied. Failing this, tincture
. of perchloride of iron may be used.
What is the process of manufacturing
cotton-wool from raw cotton and where can
the machinery be obtained? —3260.
Wax and oil are removed by boiling the
fibre with a dilute solution of caustic alkalies
under pressure. The cotton is subsequently
washed and treated with bleaching powder
and hydrochloric acid, and again washed and
dried. For machinery consult Joseph Wood,
487 Collins-Street, Melbourne, or the “Tex-
tile Journal of Australia.” 99 Queen-street,
Melbourne.
(1) Amount of N.S.W. entertainment tax
collected in 1930 and 1931? (2) Number
of admissions subject to tax, and tax col-
lected for each of the different forms of
entertain ments ? —3798.
(1) 1930, £98,948: 1981, £61.213. (2)
Racing, admissions 173,830, tax £4244 7s.
5d.; theatrical, 1,027,900 and £9686 13s.
14-; picture shows, 7,931,410 and £38,584
3s. lOld.; dancing and skating, 816,623 and
£4528 * 7s. lOld.; concerts. 84.853 and
£773 6s. 7d.: boxing and wrestling. 258,805
and £1498 l7s. ]od.; bicycle and motor
racing, 43,890 and £l7B 13s. lid.; euchre
parties, 47,728 and £lOl ss. 7d.; athletic
contests, 60,992 and £427 ss. llld.; cricket
and baseball, 47,381 and £221 7s. Id.; cir-
cuses, 70,865 -and £547 Bs. Id.; football,
72,166 and £245 18s. 7d.; and miscellaneous,
61.883 arid £405 12s. 7d.
My dog is suffering from favus (a form
of ringworm) very badly. Treatmentt
3789. ' , . 4 ,
The parts should be painted daily with
sulphurated calcium lotion: apply it hair
an inch round the outer circumference
of the patches. This should be continued for
about a fortnight. Then dress the places
daily for another week with a lotion of
equal parts of methylated spirits, green soft
soap and oil of cade. Disinfect bed, collars,
coats, basket, brushes, etc., with formalin
candle in close-fitting box. This disease is
very contagious, even to human beings ; the
dog should be isolated, and the person treat-
ing him should wash his hands with germi-
cidal soap.
How should the preparation for destroy-
ing borers be applied to polished furniture?
—3769.
Inject liquid into holes by means of a pump
or syringe fitted with a sharp-pointed nozzle.
The ideal type of pump may be inspected
at the Technological Museum, Sydney. With
a strong pump it is possible to force the
liquid through the timber and out of holes
2ft. or 3ft. distant from the one in which
it is inserted. It is unnecessary, therefore, to
treat more than a small percentage of holes.
Are gum veins common in Australian
woods? What is the cause, and what form
do the veins usually take? Do they weaken
the wood? —3793.
They are frequently met with in the
eucalypts and angophoras, and are appa-
rently of pathological origin, the cambium
producing, instead of the normal wood,, a
loose, spongy mass of cells which disin-
tegrate to form a reddish, more or less
viscous, liquid, largely consisting of tannins
or their derivatives. This liquid eventually
hardens to a brittle amorphous mass. Usu-
ally the gum veins are more or less con-
centric and from l-12in. to |in. in width,
but occasionally large pockets are formed.
Gum veins are particularly prevalent in the
bloodwoods, so much so that the wood is
usually unfit for milling, since the veins are
liable to cause the wood to separate into
strips if quarter cut. The presence of such
veins renders the wood liable to split.
(1) How to renovate an oilstone ivhich
has become clogged? (2) What oil should
be used' on an oilstone? —3773.
(1) Put it in a fire or over a gas-ring till
the oil is burned out. (2) Use one of the
light oils made specially for this purpose.
A girl has had one year's experience icith
a country hairdresser. She wishes to com-
plete her training in Sydney. Gould she
offer her services without wages, and how
long would she have to serve? —3683.
She could be employed as a second-year
apprentice, involving indenturing for a
further three years. Under the hairdressers’
(female) award she must receive 20s. Bd.
per week.
(1) Is the electrolytic method of manu-
facturing chlorine the cheapest available?
(2) Best electrolytic method? (3) Approxi-
mate cost per pound of chlorine? (4) Is
there a market for chemically pure sodium
hydrate? (5) Price? (6) Cheapest method
of liquefying chlorine? —3661.
(1) Yes. The production of chlorine
from hydrochloric acid and from sodium
chloride with the aid of oxidising agents is
now obsolete. (2) The bulk of the electro-
lytic chlorine produced to-day is made in
the mercury or diaphragm cells. In the
former the treatment of the brine is much
cheaper, the liquid produced in the cell more
concentrated, and it contains no salt. In the
latter the installation costs are less, no mer-
cury being required; the current consump-
tion is less per unit of product and a salt
of high purity can be obtained as a by-
product. (3) Depends upon current cost
and the means employed to obtain the cor-
rect voltage. Theoretically, a current of
343 ampere-hours is required at a potential
around 3 volts, or a little over 1 kw. hour.
(4) Demand is small. (5) 4s. 6d. per
pound wholesale. (6) The gas is cooled
in earthenware pipes and passed through
sulphuric acid to dry it. It is then corn-,
pressed to about l-16th of its original value
and condensed in a condensing coil. See
“Chlorine and Chlorine Products,” by G.
Martin.
A reliable corn cure? —3779.
A corn is always caused by pressure, and
nothing will cure it permanently if that
factor still exists to cause it after you have
removed a corn with one of the many pre-
parations on the market. You should see
that your shoes are wide and roomy at the
toes.
(1) Why is the Caribbean Sea level at
low tide Sift, higher than the level of the
Pacific? (2) 1 have heard that the rise and
fall of the tide on the north-west coast of
Australia, is much greater than on the
south coast. What causes this difference?
(3) What is the “Rip" in Port PhiWip
(Vic.), and how is it caused; also is it
inside or outside the Heads? (4) Does the
water-level in a bottle-necked bay rise
higher at high tide than the level in an
open bay? —36ss.
(1) The tides at the ends of the Panama
Canal are entirely different. At Colon the
rise and fall averages less than a foot, and
there is generally but ope high and one low
Avater in a day. At Balboa the rise and
fall is from 12 to 16 feet, and two high and
two low waters occur during the day. (2)
The range of tide at parts of the north-west
coast of Australia is nearly 30ft., which is
exceptionally liarge. The range is deter-
mined by the configuration of the ocean bed.
Various hypotheses- have been advanced.
(3) The Rip is between the Heads, and is
due to the water rushing into or from Port
Phillip Bay through' the constricted channel.
(4) If the entrance is narrow the. range of
tide in a landlocked bay is less than in an
open bay.
What are the characteristics of (11 king-
fish, (2) tunny, (3) bonito? (4) Have
bonitos scales? —3717.
(1) The kingfish ( Seriola grandis ) may
grow to 6ft., with a weight of 901 b. to 1001 b.
Its length is about five times its height, The
color is purplish-blue along the back, silvery
on the sides and white on the abdomen.
A broad golden band extending from the
eye to the base of the tail is frequently
present. (2) The tunny ( Thunnus mac-
coy ii) grows to about 7ft., with a weight of
several hundred pounds. Its length is about
3| times its height. The color ,pf the upper
.surface is deep purplish-black, changing to
steel blue on the sides and pearly white on
the abdomen ; the finlets are bright orange.
(3) The bonito ( Euthynnus pelamis ) grows
to about 3ft. Its length is about 41; times
its height. The color of the back is blue
and the abdomen is silvery, with four longi-
tudinal brownish stripes on each side. (4)
They are devoid of scales everywhere except
behind the pectoral (side) fins.
(1) The fingerboard of my violin has
worn into grooves under the strings. This
causes the strings to jar in the grooves and
a buzzing effect is produced. Remedy? (2)
In another violin the fingerboard nut has
worn down and allows the strings to lie on
the fingerboard. Method of replacing it? —
3785. . , ■
(1) If the grooves are only slight, take a
piece of fine glass paper, drop a spot of
linseed oil on it and rub on the fingerboard
in a circular motion. Do not rub in one
place, but. work the full length of the finger-
board. If the grooves are very deep a new
fingerboard is the best remedy. (2) Take
a table knife, rub a little soap on it, and
place the blade under the nut from the scroll
side and gently press under. The nut will
come off without affecting the fingerboard.
Having procured a new nut, warm it slightly
over a spirit lamp and, having put glue on
the neck and end of the fingerboard where
it is to go, place it on and press tightly
into position.
My two-year-old fox terrier bitch has shed
her coat ever since puppyhood, never ceas-
ing. Cause and treatment? —3690.
Probably caused by wrong feeding—too
much starchy material and not enough pro-
teid —and insufficient exercise. Best treat-
ment is to correct these errors.
Method of preparing turtle meat for sale?
—3068.
The most attractive method is by pre-
serving in tins or sealed glass jars. The
meat is cut into neat pieces, covered with a
salted or spiced liquor and cooked in a
specially constructed cooker, then imme-
diately sealed so that both it and the con-
tainers are thoroughly sterilised and air-
proof. The job is one for a highly-skilled
cook. There is no demand for the product
in Australia at present, but possibly a
market could be created.
When was Anne Bracegirdle, the actress,
born, and how long did she appear befoVe
the footlights? —369l.
She was born in 1663 (some say 1673),
and had a brilliant career on the stage till
in 1707 she and her rising rival, Mrs.
Oldfield, played Mrs. Brittle in Betterton’s
“Amorous Widow” on successive nights. The
audience awarded the palm to Mrs. Oldfield,
whereupon Mrs. Bracegirdle quitted the
stage, never to return, except for Better-
ton’s benefit performance in 1709. She
achieved her greatest successes in the plays
of Congreve.
I am constructing a grandfather's clock
What length must the pendulum rod be to
ensure that each stroke shall occupy exactly
one second, and how is it calculated? —3695.
The formula is: Time in seconds equals
pi (3.1416), multiplied by the square root
of the product of length in feet divided by
32 (gravitational constant). This gives
3ft. 2 4-sin. as approximately correct for a
beat of one second, but in practice adjust-
ments will have to be made by experiment.
In what country did chess originate and
who invented it? —3680.
The invention of chess has been variously
ascribed to the Greeks, Romans, Babylon-
ians, Scythians, Egyptians, Jews, Persians,
Chinese, Hindus, Arabians, Araucanians,
Castilians, Irish and Welsh. Individuals
mentioned as the originators of the game in-
clude Japheth. Shem, King Solomon, Xerxes,
Palamedes, Aristotle, Semiramis. Attalus
and Zenobia. Authorities agree that chess
existed in India before it is known to have
been played anywhere else.
(1) Who paid for the Statue of Liberty
in Neiv York Harbor? (2) What was the
cost? (3) Dimensions? (4) Is it solid or
hollow? (5) Who was the sculptor, when
was he born, and when did he die? (6)
Is the statue floodlighted, and how many
lamps are used? —37oB.
(1) The people of France subscribed for
the statue, and the people of the U.S.A. for
the pedestal. (2) Statue, 700,000 dollars;
pedestal. 300,000 dollars. (3) Statue alone,
151 ft. liri.; statue and pedestal, 305 ft. 6in.
(4) Hollow, of bronze, 3-16 in. thick. (5)
Frederic August Bartholdi, 1833-1904. (6)
Yes, with 104 1000-watt lamps; a cluster
of 14 1000-watt lamps illumines the torch,
and 21 jewels in the crown are lit with
blinker lights to give an effect of corus-
cation.
When were playing cards first produced
and how? —3671.
Edicts against card-playing indicate their
existence in Germany in 1300. in Italy in
1299 and in Spain in 1397. Probably the
first packs were all drawn and colored by
hand. Playing cards were among the first
things printed from wood blocks (if not quite
the first). In existing specimens the out-
lines were printed from wood blocks and
the colors stencilled.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of aboriginal words ‘‘till till,”
“gol gol” and “nap nap”?—3796.
Brief Answers.
C.J.: (1) “How to Train a Racehorse,”
by Muggridge (255.), “The Thoroughbred Racehorse,”
by Platt (10s. 9d.), “The Racehorse in Training,”
by Day (10s.), “Veterinary Notes for Horse Owners,”
by Hayes (275.). (2) “Breeding Racehorses,” by
Lowe, is now out of print and very scarce,...
H.C.: Write Commonwealth Meteorologist, Meteoro-
logical Bureau, Melbourne J.U.U.: The Radio
Research Board has issued five reports; all arc
obtainable from the Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research, Melbourne.... H.J.: Frank
Beaurepaire, ex-champion swimmer, is now managing
a motor-tyre business in Melbourne. He is 42....
W.N.S.: Rudyard Kipling. It is called “The Grave
of the Hundred Head,” and appears in his first book
of verse, “Departmental Ditties.” The name of tie
native officer is Prag Tewarri, not 7’re wan i. ...
W. 8.: The American Fleet which visited Sydney in
1908 consisted of 16 battleships, two supply ships
and one hospital ship. It was under the command of
Rear-Admiral Sperry... .W.N.S.: It is not possible
to tighten loose spokes. The only remedy is to
respoke the wheel 11.W.8.: There were two Labor
members in the House of Commons in 1900. In 1906
there were 29; in 1910', 42 ; in 1918, 57 ; in 1922,
142 ; in 1923, 91 ; in 1924, 151 ; in 1929, 287 ; in 1931,
52 T.S.: Rev. T. E. Ruth was a Baptist minister
prior to becoming minister at the Pitt-street Congre-
gational Church R.P.: Will Andrade, 173 Pitt-
street, Sydney, will forward you his catalogue on
application. .. .C. 8.: “Angora Wool Rabbits for
Profit,’’ by Arthur Sainsbury... .L.J.: Consult J.
Strachan’a “The Recovery and Re-manufacture of
Waste Paper”.. ..N.M.W.: Roth’s “Ethnological
Studies Among the North-West-Central Queensland
Aborigines” (1897) should be worth about 30s
R.F.: The Coast Hospital has 840 beds, Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital 530, and Sydney Hospital
380.... 11. R.: Bowlers who have done the hat trick
in Test matches between England and Australia are
Spofforth, Melb., Jan., 1879 ; Bates, Melb., Jan.,
1883; Briggs, Sydney, Feb., 1892 ; Hearne, Leeds,
June, 1899; Trumble, Melb., Jan., 1902, and March,
1904’ N.C.: Write A. J. Tyler, Australian Natives’
Assoc. (Tas. Branch), 150 Patrick-street, Hobart
J.R.: See “Dyke’s Automobile Encyclopaedia”
A.F.: “The Dog’s Medical Dictionary,” by A. J.
Sewell (7s. 6d.) M.A.S.: (1) Earl Beauchamp
has the following sons and daughters: Viscount
Elmley (heir to earldom), Hon. Hugh Patrick, Lady
Lettice (now Lady L. Cotterell), Lady Sibell, Lady
Mary, Lady Dorothy and Hon. Richard Edward.
(2) The family name is Lygon (pronounced Liggon),
and is used by the younger children. .. .A.T.J.: To
convert statute miles into nautical miles, multiply
statute miles by 0.8684 ; to convert nautical miles
into statute miles, multiply nautical miles by 1.1515.
. ...H.M.S.: National Geographic Society, 16th and
M streets, N.W., Washington, D.C., U.S.A
C.J.: From the Secretary, Australasian Massage
Assoc., 185 Elizabeth-street, Sydney... .J.H.F.: Set
up a pair of tanks, use one as a generator for
steam only, and pass same into the second one
packed with leaves. The leaves should be tightly
packed on a rack, about 8 or 10 inches from the
bottom, and the steam led up through them by
means of a perforated grid or ring. .. .C.J.E.: You
should have made your demand on the owner of
the adjoining block for his half of the expense
when you put up the fence three years ago. It is
too late now. .. .R.J.: A charge not exceeding 2d.
for each conversation may be made by the subscriber
for each call to which unit fee applies. .. .T.G.: The
Sydney Industrial Blind Institution maintains a free
circulating library for the blind. Write to the man-
ager, V 7 illiam and Boomerang streets, Sydney
M. : See “The Problem of the Birth of the Kan-
garoo,” by Prof. T. Thomas Flynn, issued by the
Workers’ Educational Assoc, of Tasmania... .E.S.:
Call and see the secretary, Real Estate Institute of
N. S. Wales, 30a Martin-place, Sydney.... S.H.L.M.:
The use of titanium oxide to color pottery is a recent
development. To obtain good effects very high
temperatures are necessary. The usual tones are
greys, dark blues and greens, and the chief beauty
of the ware lies in the fine mottled and cloudy
effects produced in the glaze. .. .S.C. : Fully release
emergency brake lever, remove rod that connects
emergency brake lever to cross shaft centre lever,
replace the rod, inserting it through the hole, in
the centre cross member, and connect the rod to the
cross shaft centre lever through the upper h01e....
H.C.L.: Timber would come under description of
“flotsam and jetsam”; that is, articles floating on the
sea or east up on shore which become the property of
the Crown unless claimed by the true owners within
a year and a day. You would have no sustainable
claim against the authorities acting 011 behalf of
the Crown. .. . A.M.L.: It appears to be a mohur of
Madras, Penang or British Sumatra, probably
a native issue copied from the British East India
Co.’s coins of those places. Crude copies of the
co.’s issues were fairly common among the native
State down to the middle of last century. Might
bp worth about 10s P.A.: “Belt Conveyors and
Belt Elevators,” by F. W. Hetzel (305.)... .G.M.:
Webb Bros., 286 City-road, South Melbourne....
M. : You will have no chance of making a
croquet lawn unless you have a good water supply,
for this is essential to growth.... J.fi.O.: The appar-
ent anomaly in j our equation arises out of the use of
the imaginary quantity, “square root of minus one,’’
as if it were real. The use of this symbol is
governed by the convention that its square is always
“minus one.*’ See any treatise on higher algebra.
. ...R.V.; W. A. Newman, Administrator of Nauru,
is being succeeded by Commander Garsia. C. R-
Pinney is the Administrator of Norfolk Island.. • •
P.T.8.F.: The old word, still in use, is whiting; but
it is being ousted by whitening ■■ ■ .S.R.: Brig.-
Gen. C. H. Foott was born at Bourke (N.S.W.) in
1876. He was a mechanical engineer before joining
the Q’land Permanent Artillery in 1896... .C.P.:
“The Agricultural Gazette of N. S. Wales” is sup-
plied free to farmers, orchardists, pastoralists and
others engaged in agriculture and in possession o
a holding; apply to the Under-Secretary, Dept, o
Agriculture D.M.C.: As now commonly used,
propaganda is singular; plural, propagan as.
E.L.: Onomatopoeia is the formation of name
or words from sounds that resemble those assoc
ated with the object or action to e name. ,
or that seem suggestive of its qualities; li e.
cuckoo, croak, puff-puff, are examples.. . .T.J.S.. J
Phil May drawing of Parkes as a minstrel brougi
£8 13s. 3d. at an auction sale 29 years ago. I
is probably worth more now. We cannot say who
is the present owner. .. ..J.K.: Write to the Resident
Commissioner, Tulagi, British Solomon Islands....
N. : Write A. E. Smith, violin expert, 62
Hunter-street, Sydney... .J.G.: It would be better
to obtain the prepared material. Write A. P-
Barncastle, Ltd., 49 Q.V. Buildings, George-street,
Sydney. .. .H.W.H.: “Pocket Compendium of Aus-
tralian Statistics” (Is. Id. posted), obtainable
from Commonwealth Treasury Branch Office, 3 Martin-
place, Sydney.-.-G.F.: Sydney’s mean annual tem-
perature is 63.2 deg. Fahr.; mean summer, 71 deg.
Fahr. ; mean autumn, 64.3 deg. Fahr. ; mean winter,
54.2 deg. Fahr. ; and mean spring, 63.3 deg. Fahr.
Yearly average rainfall is 47.5 in 1895: Write
Undersecretary, Dept, of Interior, Canberra, F.C.T.
.... (Many others mailed.)


MEN AMONG
PEARLS
By
H. Drake-Brockman.
Synopsis : Christopher Kent, a young
English aristocrat, educated at Oxford,
who has been turned down by his
cousin Lettice on account of Ids
poverty, comes to the Nor’-West
pearling grounds hoping to make
i/nick money and return to her. While
he is in Broome (to which he has
gone, to give evidence about an attack
made on Horton, a pearler, by a
colored “ boy ”) June Goer, daughter
of another pearler, arrives from Mel-
bourne, where she has been living,
and is greatly interested in Chris.
She tries to find out something about
him from “Uncle Monty ” (Mr. Mont-
gomery), an old friend. Young Peter
Fordyce, a wealthy pearler, is greatly
interested in June. June makes a
friend of Queenie, a girl of her own
age, about whom there is some mys-
tery. Chris's boat stays out over
Christmas, but at last he comes in
for the Lay-up. June is delighted
with the bustle and movement, and to
see so much of Chris; she docs not
realise that he is interested only in
her resemblance to Lettice. June’s
nineteenth birthday party is a huge
success: everyone of note except
Monty is there, and Professor Leo, a
travelling magician, entertains the
gu<sts. The party finishes up with a
swim, and June is disappointed that
Chris has gone home; she begins to
dislike Peter's seriousness. A letter
from Lettice brightens Chris, but he
fails to notice her references to a new
male friend. June is overjoyed when
Chris offers to take her to Leo’s
public show.
CHAPTER IX ( Continued).
JUNE, who spent hot hours sewing at a
new dress for the occasion, could have
wept when she discovered that it was not,
as she had hoped, a party d deux. Her
father was coming—and Peter Fordyce. It
was, she thought ruefully, a paying-off-hos-
pitality party. But her reflection in the
mirror—a white and gold nymph in a dress
the color of Roebuck Bay; was it green, was
it blue?—consoled her in part. A trifle pale,
she was perhaps, but her lips were just right,
She didn’t mind using a lip-stick, but she
still drew the line at rouge, though most
of the women used it—“ Needs must, my
dear,” they told each other. “Why look
like a ghost- even if this ghastly hole makes
you feel like one?” Oh yes, June reflected,
she looked well enough: no need for the
light which sprang to Peter’s eyes to tell
her so, with a greater eloquence than Chris’s
impersonal, charming and altogether banal:
“Miss June, you look as lovely as your
name.”
Professor Theodore Leo drew a full house.
He had chosen the grassy quadrangle of
the Oriental Hotel, so much cooler than
the picture show in Chinatown. Three
sides were formed by the long latticed
verandahs of the hotel buildings, the fourth
by the stage. Broome ran two picture
shows in the Lay-up, but this open-air
theatre was used only twice a week—it
could be had for the hiring.
The Tweedies sat in front of Christopher
Kent’s party; directly behind sat Mrs.
Ling Hoon and her husband, each nursing
a bright-eyed browny-yellow child.
“Wouldn’t she be beautiful in her proper
clothes?” whispered June to Chris, as she
looked at the tiny rose-and-white face with
its piles of black hair bright with butterfly
pins, so exotic above the neck of a white
silk blouse and a tight-waisted serge skirt.
“Or even if she wore modem things? But
the Jap women all seem to dress a century
behind the times.”
Kent glanced at the little lady and
murmured a reply. Inwardly he was curs-
ing a system of booking which had not
permitted him to choose seats further from
the Ling Hoons. Goer and Fordyce took
it as a matter of course that if the Jap
storekeepers liked to pay top prices they
must be allowed to sit among the, whites
and Mr. Montgomery would only have
chuckled at qualms. But Kent chafed;
his pleasure in giving a party was more
than ever damped when two young shell-
openers, who had been at June’s birthday
dance, strolled in with a pair of very flash
barmaids, and greeted June by her Christian
name as they passed to their seats. Young
pups—if they had to bring barmaids to
public entertainments, at least they might
have a little sense of proportion and keep
to themselves!
He supposed Monty would ask: “Why
worry?” But he did worry; it wasn’t right
—even in a mixed-up place like Broome.
Then he espied Horton standing at the
back talking to a diver who had signed up
for the next season with Kent and Kent;
and he was horrified at the sudden sus-
picions which beseiged his mind. Why, he
was getting as bad as the rest—and he had
hoped to heaven he’d be out of the place
long before that happened. At home, with
Lettice!
Chris smiled into the eager face at his
shoulder, a smile which made June drop
her eyes, then peep up with instinctive
coquetry, never guessing that those bright
hazel eyes, almost as eagerly young as
her own, looked right through her to a
woman on the other side of the world.
She took the smile to herself; gaily she
chattered.
And Chris came back to Broome and
thought: “Nice little kid.”
The babble, died down when Professor
Leo appeared. The curtain rose on the
usual magician’s stage—black velvet
drapery, hotter than the velvet of the
tropical night. A palm or two, a table,
cane chairs, and Leo himself perspiring in
his heavy black suit and boiled shirt.
He announced that he would commence
with a few card tricks. He repeated the
statement quite a number of times as he
prepared the cards; then suddenly he
decided it might be wiser to wait until the
night grew cooler—the cards might stick.
He would, instead, begin by answering ques-
tions : he. would present the audience with
slips of paper upon which each individual
could write down the questions he most
desired to have answered. The papers
would be collected—by anybody who liked.
They would be put into a bag a.nd it would
be sealed—by anybody who liked. And
then the spirits would divulge to him, Leo,
the Master of the Occult, the secrets written
on the papers, and by a mysterious spiritual
influence he would be enabled to supply
the necessary answers. Meantime, as a
diversion, whilst every one was busy writing,
would some member of the audience be
kind enough to lend his watch to some
other person?
Goer volunteered immediately. He gave
his gold wristlet surreptitiously to Horton,
and guffawed loudly when Leo announced
that the watch was in the right-hand pocket
of a man who liked both himself and his
button-hole. That could only be Smith.
He was the only pearler who ever wore a
button-hole. Goer was tom between
delight at the description of Smith, who
would hate it, and joy over Leo’s error.
“Wrong!” he roared. But Leo turned to
the audience and blandly inquired of Smith
if that were not so?
Smith produced the watch.
The effect on the colored people was
magical. The whites gave no outward sign,
but they prepared to be highly entertained
and listened good-humoredly to the stream
of patter gushing from the stage. Leo did
nothing more—but he talked. And highly
diverting he was so long as he talked at
others and not at oneself. Presently the
papers were collected, put into a voluminous
black bag, tied up and placed on one of
the property tables.
Now, Leo said, until the spirits should
arrive, he proposed to hypnotise any person
willing to offer himself, or herself, as a
subject. And through that medium he
would be able to foretell the future—the
price of m.o.p. next winter, or possibly
even the winner of the next Melbourne
Cup, if they were very lucky. That had
happened in Queensland —the town made
money out of it, but not as much as if
they’d really had faith. Was no one willing?
Even with such a magnificent bait no one
seemed willing.
Leo remarked sarcastically he had under-
stood the pearlers to be a dare-devil lot—
he’d certainly heard as much hinted down
the coast!
Thereupon the butcher’s boy, pushed to
it by his mates, offered himself as a victim.
Leo sat him down in full face of every-
body—with a hand on each knee and two
large feet shuffling. The lad went red to
the ears; but soon he felt more at home
and summoned up sufficient nerve to wink
at the group of larrikins he had just left.
The crowd laughed, finding something excru-
ciatingly humorous in seeing thus in the
limelight, and, as it were, in a position of
importance, the daily purveyor of steak
and chops.
But, however good as a butcher he may
have been—and the housewives would not
have said much for him— ast a spiritualistic
medium he was a dismal failure. Leo
waved his arms,
exhorted the youth
to keep his eyes
fast upon a small
bright object held
before his nose,
bade him make
his mind a blank.
“Was it ever any-
thing- else?”
queried a ribald
voice from the
back seats. And
the subject had
perforce to defend
his wits by retort-
ing, with another
wink, that at any rate it was not such a
blanky blank as the speaker’s.
“Quietly, quietly, gentlemen,’! pleaded
Leo. “Silence, please.”
There was silence. So tense that the
chug-chug of the electric-light engine,
housed in a shed close handy, thundered
through the quadrangle like the pulse of
destiny. Leo made mystic passes, the
atmosphere grew tense, rarified. People
strained forward, willing the butcher’s boy
to surrender his personality. His eyes
glazed. Things looked hopeful. A breath
of suspense sighed, hushed.
“ ’Ave a banana, pet.”
Into the delicate atmosphere, ripping,
bruising, hurtled the crude jest. A girl
tittered. The medium’s lips twitched,
quivered into a broad grin. “Too right!”
he ejaculated, and with a flying leap landed
back amongst an audience utterly de-
moralised, crying and rocking with hys-
terical laughter.
Leo, left forlorn upon the stage, tried in
vain to attract attention. Jeers and cat-
calls rained on him from the back seats.
Goer and Fordyce doubled up with laughter,
like the rest. June was giggling as help-
lessly as if she were Queenie. Chris smiled
half-heartedly, glanced stealthily round.
During the performance he had noticed
various men coming and going to the bar;
he felt far from easy. He even apologised
to June for bringing her to such a dud show,
but the girl was laughing so much she did
not hear.
Then the crowd became aware that in
some surprising manner a second candidate
had appeared beside the Professor. Genders,
it was, a funny little fellow with no chin
who had be.en shell-opening for the past
two years. A quiet little chap, the few
who knew him were inclined to think, until
they discovered a hidden vein of dry wit
which sometimes forced its way to the
surface.
“My God,” said Goer loudly, “if he can’t
hypnotise that rabbit I’ll reckon he’s worse
than a fraud!”
Leo and his new subject ignored the
tittering audience and set about their task.
Presently the crowd calmed, fell silent
except for a whisper here and there. The
chug-chug of the engine once more throbbed
overpoweringly through the night, The
face of Genders resembled a half-wit mask.
He grew flaccid, then taut. Leo raised an
arm and it remained stiff and grotesque in
the air. A murmur of satisfaction ran
along the packed rows.
The Professor grew complacent. He shot
back his cuffs, ordered his victim to rise,
twirled him like a top, pinched him,
slapped him, ordered him to pull faces at
the now absorbed audience. Like an auto-
maton little Genders obeyed.
The crash came when Leo tried to lay
him, like a board, upon two chairs. And
a crash it was. Genders did his best, but
his waist muscles absolutely refused to obey.
He sagged horribly. “He’s going,” shouted
a voice. And the next moment the hyp-
notic medium sat hard down upon the
floor of the stage. His blank eyes filled,
an impish smile made his chin all but
vanish. “So sorry, old chap,” he explained
amia,bly to the Professor. “I’m always
pleased to help a fellow out of a hole; but
you’ll need an acrobat for that sort of
caper.”
Leo made a gesture of disgust. Pan-
demonium drowned his voice; he could
scarcely be heard explaining that evidently
the inhabitants of Broome were determined
to scoff—no Master of the Occult could be
expected to get any result in such an atmo-
sphere. His tie slipped to one side. He
was no longer suave. It became evident
he was considerably ruffled; and yet, as
became the King of Magicians and a First-
class Entertainer, he shouted that, although
he would not essay any more hypnotic
experiments, he would now answer the ques-
tions written upon the little slips of paper.
For the third time everybody settled
down. But it took longer; a gulp or a
hiccough sent little shivers of laughter
rippling through the crowd. After all,
men told each other, he had been mighty
clever, had the same Leo, in the bars and
at, June Goer’s party.
Leo now produced a large sheet, and,
having first bidden one of the pearlers
examine the bag in which the papers had
been placed and make sure it was securely
tied and had not been tampered with since
the collection, had him place it on a little
table in full view of everybody, and retire.
This time the lights were lowered. Leo
seated himself and threw the sheet over his
head. He must concentrate, he said: and
presently a muffled voice could be heard
calling upon the spirits to come to his aid.
A hand protruded from the sheet, waggled
in the air like a dismembered limb. And
suddenly, to every; one’s very real astonish-
ment; a slip of paper appeared fluttering
between those pallid Angers.
Leo’s smothered voice read out the ques-
tion. A different voice replied.
“Is that right?” demanded Leo, poking
a damp face from his shroud.
An affirmative answer sent him back
again. A rustle proclaimed that interest
was caught at last. Leo held his audience
in the hollow of his hand now. But, alas,
the spirits seemed very languid. They
took a long time to bring each paper; their
replies, satisfactorily correct as they were,
oarne far too slowly. People began asking
what was the matter with the man—they
hadn’t paid three shillings for this kind of
fooling.
The Professor also evidently found such
tardiness a trial. Suddenly he cast aside
the sheet and came out shaking his head.
It was rather hot., he intimated; would they
please excuse him for a moment? He
slipped away, leaving a now thoroughly
exasperated crowd. He was not gone long,
but in that eight minutes he completed a
task begun before breakfast by two pink
gins. He returned smiling broadly and
more than a ♦trifle unsteady. He did not
even trouble to reach the stage, but blandly
addressed the outraged assembly from the
front aisle. “Ladies and Shentlemen,” he
began, “you are here to-night to watch
Professor Leo.”
He got no further. He was swamped in
uproar. “Full as a tick!” roared Goer.
“And we never guessed!”
“There’s going to be some sport now,”
commented Fordyce. “I reckon it was a
pretty clever show—one drunk to keep a
mob on the qui vive for nearly two hours.”
Angry voices demanded their money back.
Some bright young men raided the hotel
pantry and tomatoes began to hurtle
through the air. The Asiatics muttered in
disgust. Now and then Leo’s voice rose
above the tumult, still pleading for a hear-
ing.
“Let’s get out,” said Kent, furious.
“There’s going to be a rough-house.”
He shepherded June through the excited
crowd, and Goer ran them all back to his
bungalow. Chris was quite bitter about
the whole affair; it only annoyed him the
more to find the other two men and June
regarding it as a huge .joke, appearing to
find entertainment in being so completely
hoaxed by a drunken man. Peter even
went the length of enthusiastically declar-
ing it to be the best one-man show he had
ever seen put up—even if it was hardly the
show they had expected to see. He seemed
to find huge amusement in the spectacle of
an audience of well-weathered pearlers
sitting there like a lot of mugs, waiting,
quite content to let Leo go on talking.
June wished that Mr. Kent—Chris—
wouldn’t be so put out. It was nothing—
in fact, she assured him, she had. really
enjoyed herself—it had. been funny;
although, of course, it wasn’t nice to see
a man so much the worse for wear.
As she undressed later on, June experi-
enced a slight reaction. She knew that a
year ago she would have been horrified by
such an exhibition, and just as disgusted
and annoyed as Chris. She managed to
console herself with the thought that he
had, of course, seen the ridiculous side as
much as she and Peter had: he was forced
to pass over the humor of it and appear
vexed because of his punctilious manners
and the trying knowledge that his party
had turned out a fiasco.
CHAPTER X.
The Diamond Fish.
Isolation began to tell on Christopher
Kent’s nerves. But he was not aware of it.
The Lay-up with its bustle, its human
interests, had vanished into the white mists
which sometimes curled over the waste of
the Indian Ocean in the early dawn; it
had been swallowed utterly by monotonous
succession of days drenched in blueness of
sky and sea, bereft of contact with any
world more tangible than the miles of
waters, delicately, smoothly shimmering in
the first light, tossing sprightly waves of
indigo and cerulean and a thousand other
blues as the sun climbed the deep cloudless
vault of the sky, and majestically descended
to the west.
Chris began to feel he had spent his whole
life imprisoned in his blue-and-golden gaol.
London, the war, Melbourne, Broome —they
might well be only dim memories carried
from another world.
The sharp edge of his quest for wealth
had been blunted. It seemed incredible that
he had ever found pleasure in opening the
piles of oyster-shells Hashimoto brought up
through fathoms of blue sea, it seemed fan-
tastic he should ever have dreamed of find-
ing a gem which would become a legend—
like the Southern Cross, or the Koh-i-noor!
A million years might have passed, empires
and civilisations arisen and died, in the five
months which had elapsed since he sailed
out from Roebuck Bay on. a glistening
morning tide in April. He had been alone
most of the time. Old Captain Kent had
taken their second lugger to the north, up
past the Lacipede Islands, and Chris had
preferred to go off on his own, especially
when Hashimoto hinted that he knew good
banks where no boats were working. Some-
times two or three other boats showed up,
bore down on the solitary lugger, and for
a day or so they would together skim a
patch. Then, sometimes, pearls would b.
found—but it was never Chris who found
them! The other boats would drift away,
disappear like dream-ships into space, and
isolation swallow them. Once Peter For-


J 5
*
£xi<.v v 4O/
BATTERIES
PRICES AS AT
CAPITAL CITIES
Sales Tax Extra
New low prices for the New
Year. Exide offers you a
range of car batteries to suit
every purse and purpose. The
Exide “44” is now obtainable
from 40/-to 70/-, The Exide
Clifton from to 110/-,
The Exide Standard from
60/- to £lO/7/6, and the
Exide Super Eattery from
107/- to £l2/15/-. And mark
you ! Exide world famous
quality remains the same.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS: Brisbane—EXlDE BATTERY SERVICE (Q) PTY.
LTD.; Sydney—EXlDE BATTERY SERVICE (Deering Engineering Co.
Ltd.); Melbourne—A. P. SUTHERLAND; Adelaide—UNBEHAUN &
JOHNSTONE LTD.; Perth—M. J. BATEMAN LTD.; Hobart—MEDHURST
& SONS PTY. LTD.
ŵ
Obtainable from Exide Service
Stations or your Garage.
Exide Service Stations give ser-
vice on every make of battery.
EC 9
I When it's an Extde you START_
c§portin§
NOTES-TIPS- RESULTS,.
YHEAUSTRALASIAJ
ON SALE ALL STATES-6?
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
* • •
Opposite Union
from Entrance
SYDNEY.
dub and Two Minutes
to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
JIB'UIPIEA't m
OlRClJ!lAP®»»
Queensland’s Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike —a widespread distribution
that is the desideratum of merchants and
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
procurable. The “Daily Mail” will get
you results. It is read by all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
wants are many and varied. Its favorable
circulation position has been definitely
established. Rates, etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
dyce paid a visit on his schooner, exchanged
tucker and wood for bags of shell, and for a
short evening brought back life to Kent’s
existence.
But now he had seen no white face for
more than six weeks. Hashimoto was re-
puted to be a splendid diver, although Chris
could not see that he showed any signs of
putting up a record take, and all the shells
opened up, alas! only too white and flaw-
less.
But, good diver or only average, Hashi-
moto was certainly no talker. True, Chris
never sought to cultivate the Jap’s society
even for entertainment; his caste prejudice
was too well developed for that. White man
and yellow shared the close intimacy of a tiny
cabin, yet lived in polite disregard each of
the other. They lay separated, each thought,
by an immense chasm of position, mind,
race; yet at night they slept within arm’s
reach: Kent, drugged by monotony, no
longer spinning dreams, his whole being
reduced to an animated unconscious prayer
for success; Hashimoto yearning, planning,
adding, building castles in the air for his
sons in far-away Nippon. His sons—the
eldest already went to a big school, soon
he would be a doctor; the second was so
clever with his brush—were not the letters
sent to his father already marvels of taste
apd skill?—and the littlest one they said
grew each day more like his honorable
father. The littlest one—the one he had
not even seen, for had he not come far
away to this barren Australia to earn big
money for the education of his beloved
sons even before that last child was born?
Eight summers ago! And in the darkness
the shadow of his soft-voiced wife Yuki
would steal past the form of the sleeping
Englishman and beg her master to return,
for the years dragged by on tired feet.
The Malays and Koepangers did their
work and kept to themselves, as is generally
the way, although Hashimoto and the tender
occasionally condescended to play cards
with them, and more often than not won
all their wages. Yet there was little time
for anything but work, except for Chris, to
whom the days grew longer and longer.
He was roused at dawn by one of the crew
bringing two steaming cups of coffee.
Hashimoto would stumble from his bunk up
on to the deck, where the tender waited to
help him into the thick woollen under-
clothes, the canvas suit, the rubber over-
dress and heavy breastplate of his diving
apparel. Sometimes Chris turned out
quickly, plunged overboard into a colorless,
bottomless sea, in and out sharply for fear
of sharks; almost always he rose in time to
see everything was in order before the diver
went below. Not that such vigilance was
necessary—the diver remained boss on a
lugger even when his employer was opening
shells—but Chris felt that he must main-
tain some sort of routine or else sink into
utter sloth.
He always had a word for Hashimoto be-
fore the helmet was screwed on and the
little fellow shut into a world even more
confined than the cramped universe of the
lugger—Chris liked to imagine that he took
some responsibility himself, although he
really knew the diver kept a keen eye to
everything. Hashimoto was sure to see the
men were at their stations, the engine-boy
at the air-pump, the tender standing out on
the platform thrust aft from the stem of
the boat, with the lifeline safely in his
hands, before he was walled away into
silence. He it was who adjusted the rubber
bandages round his cuffs with a nice preci-
sion, and examined carefully the lachets of
his fourteen-pound boots. Then, string bag
in hand, helmet on head, lead weights round
his neck, he would clamber down the tiny
ladder and sink into fifteen fathoms of water
more calmly than the average man catching
his ’bus to office. For hours only a trail of
bubbles, an occasional tug at the rope held
in the tender’s sensitive brown hand, would
give hint of the worker. The lugger would
sail down the breeze, drifting, towing the
diver until he sighted a patch and signalled
to lower him. Out would pay the lifeline,
the boat would hover and tack until the
sign came to pass on.
Hour after long hour, up and down across
the sea!
At eight o’clock —or eight bells, though
only a few of the luggers were nautically
inclined—Hashimoto would be warned by
the tender; he would close the valves and
come up, slowly, slowly from the depths,
until he lay floating helpless on his side at
the surface, like some dead sea-monster;
and they would haul him in to breakfast.
A smoke, a rest, then back into the sea....
and so on throughout a working day of
twelve hours or more. Some days he would
bring up three-dozen shells, and some days
ten, and some days none at all. At four or
five he would get out of his diving-dress and
woollens into shirt and pants, and lounge
upon the deck, and be waited on by the
crew; for, though the sun still shone bright
and warm up in the world, down below it
was growing dark.
Whilst Hashimoto smoked cigarette after
cigarette, the gear would all be neatly
stacked, the pump oiled and overhauled,
the boat be put ship-shape for the night,
and by the time Chris had opened the shells
—the only piece of work which came his
way all day—the cook-boy, crouched over
the wood fire glowing in the fire-box, would
announce that meccan was ready, and bring
Hashimoto’s and the boss’s share to the
cabin.
Chris had read until he was tired of books.
He had tried carving shell after he had
caught a hawksbill turtle on his fishing line,
but he had not found it amusing—the rasp
of file and sandpaper grated on his ears.
He was tired of fishing. He wondered how,
the year before, he could have imagined he
liked the life. It had seemed like freedom
then—it seemed like prison now.
He had been keen at first, because, he
supposed, he had been confident of making
a fortune! bpt now—Well, at the bottom
of his mind there was still a conviction that
things would come right in the end; but it
lay there, without any vigor, smothered
beneath the endless sameness of each suc-
ceeding day. Dimly he realised how it was
the pearlers became so engrossd with their
own lives, so touchy and childish and filled
with self-importance. After months of this
kind of thing a man lost the proportions he
had grown up with; there was no other
world, nothing—only this. Months like
this; and years in the little port, three hun-
dred miles from anywhere else, two thousand
miles from any everyday existence, in spite
of radios and air-mails! The crew gave of
their best, because, though he might be
possessed of caste prejudice, he also was
possessed of the incomparable British apti-
tude for handling colored races. They liked
him. The monotony remained unbroken by
even a squabble: they reckoned the boss
a good fellow and lived in peace with him
and each other.
At last came a break in the inexorable
routine. Chris poked his face from the
rugs one cold August morning to hear the
tender talking in. excited tones to Hashimoto.
“What’s up?” he demanded-
“ Big mob di’mon’ fish, boss, plenty fish—
verry bad fish swim alonga diver-”
Interested, Chris went on deck at once.
He had heard about these big ’rays, with
their wicked mandibles, their lash-like tails,
their insatiable curiosity, which led them to
nose down a lifeline, catching it between
their evil mandibles and snapping it like
cotton thread when, meeting the weird mon-
ster at the end, they turned and shot away
through the water like rockets. Chris well
remembered being told how terrified of them
the divers were.
Hashimoto was beside him in an instant,
shaking his head in dismay. Through water
iridescent as grey-tinted mother-of-pearl in
the pale young light, splashed and raced a
school of “diamonds,” evil, immense, and
black, black except for an occasional glint
of bellies white as porcelain.
“Six of ’em,” exclaimed Chris. “That’s
a lot, surely?”
“My oath, boss!” replied Hashimoto. “I
no go down for one!”
The diamond fish appeared to make a
plaything of the lugger. Like ghoulish
familiars they sported in the waves, and
the pink light of dawn tinged the foam they
splashed into crimson jets, like little spurts
of blood. The crew, convulsed with excite-
ment, pressed to the sides to watch, chatter-
ing and pointing. Chris suggested a tack,
but even on an altered course the monsters
followed; and darting beneath their dead-
white bellies, distinguishable as the light
gained, swam half-a-dozen young sharks.
Hashimoto grew uneasy.
“Why-for they follow?” he demanded.
“I no like.”
Chris smiled, and tried, most hopeless of
all endeavors, to wrestle with superstition.
“Shark he no matter,” said Hashimoto
unconvinced. “Hashimoto not trouble alonga
shark. Shark nothing. Di’mon—he devil!
He cut lifeline with his saws. He no good,
at all. Verry bad demon. I no go down
to-day.”
Nor would he. For perhaps two hours
the rays followed the lugger, and the whole
time the little diver sat on the hatch and
rolled cigarettes and glared at the devils.
Chris trailed a line, but was forced to decide
that nothing short of a harpoon would catch
one; and the young sharks swam each be-
neath the belly of his protector, and could
not be beguiled. The creatures frolicked and
jumped, and lashed the waves with their
tails. .
Nothing would make Hashimoto alter his
opinion that they were demons who had
taken a fancy to the lugger. He’d seen
diamond fish before, he declared, but only
one or two at a time, and never, never,
never had they followed a ship! He refused
point-blank, even hours after the fish had
vanished, to work that day.
(To be continued next week.)
Rejected Clay.
lam a useless piece of broken clay
The potter has not needed.
I have been fashioned out and thrown away,
Futility unheeded.
And all day long upon the ground I lie,
Just watching the long calmness of the sky,
The shade that passes.
And all day long the workmen go
About the world. ’Tis death I know
In these deep grasses.
The winds stir quietly and the hot sun
shines.
I lie half-hidden in the creeping vines,
And watch birds flying,
With cankered dreams that cry and grope,
With thousand thoughts of life and hope,
So long a-dying.
To-morrow on to-morrow piles up years,
And they are done. And still the sunshine
wears
The clay; and faster,
Faster than death, in quiet I learn
That winds may wander, sun may burn,
Time is my master.
Men look in pity as they work and pass:
“It is the broken clay among the grass
We have not needed.
It. is the crumbling vision of a god,
A useless thing, a broken sod.
Leave it, unheeded.”
QUEENSLAND.
K. K.


NESTLES
**ESTtE' s
-Af-
\VK.IOHT ll*
.. . and sleep soundly!
A glass of Nestle’s Malted Milk, hot,
taken before retiring will ensure restful,
refreshing sleep. And you enjoy all the
nutritive benefits of energy building
malt and rich full-cream milk, delight-
fully blended.
MALTED MILK
810 COPYRIGHT
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed*
H
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&C
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Some great weight-carriers have been
seen in Sydney of recent years, among them
Salatis, Fuji San and Red Gauntlet. Tom
Pinch is a bigger-bodied horse than any of
them, and, though not perhaps equal to
Fuji San, is better than the other two. It
was a sterling performance on Tom’s part
to shoulder lOst. lib. (the minimum was
7st.) and lead almost from start to finish
in the Sefton Handicap at Warwick Farm.
He had to concede nearly 3st. to a smart
horse like Maybe. Maybe tackled him in
the straight, and momentarily looked to be
getting the better of the argument till —
deciding, perhaps, that he had had enough
—he ran out, bringing up against the judge’s
box. Tom, who was ridden by Coutts, kept
a straight course, and wound up a length or
so in front of Loch Garry, who had the fast-
finishing Roman Spear behind him. It was
a slick seven-furlong gallop—the time was
lmin. 25_xsec.
People were astonished when the protest
flag went up. Interference with Loch Garry
was alleged, but the stewards decided that
there was no ground for altering the plac-
lngs. Partly because Booth started both
Pom Pinch and Roman Spear, but chiefly
because of the strong support for Maybe
and Whittingliam, backers of Tom Pinch got
sevens, and better.
"Seven to one bar one” was called on the
harm Novice Handicap, with only 14
starters. The barred one was Maltdale, who
was at 5 to 2 early and then at 5 to 4.
Gunously enough, he went to twos again
in running,” though he was at the head of
affairs and going easily. Ringmen had con-
fused his colors with those of Elmaros, who
wag nearer last than first. In the straight
Maltdale bounded away from his field and
won by four lengths from Bill Wcdgewood
and Ashcullen, doing the mile, pulling up, in
lmm. He is a brother to a Metrop.
Bert: "Aren't you going in V'
GIERT"No, TOO rough"
Bert; Tweres a, handsome young,
FELLOW JUST WWTIMG) to save
SOMEONE"
<3eR-r: * l he rescued me
yesterday 7
winner, Jocelyn, and it looks as if J. S.
Lrunton has got hold of another good horse.
Poison paid up for Trevallion in the
January Handicap and the Redfern gelding
was given a pipe-opener in the morning; but
tor some reason he did not start. In his
absence, backers declared for Gold Digger
a,nd Rosendo, but neither figured in the
finish, which was left to Dalmatic (4 to 1)
and two 10-to-l shots, Nagrada and Dream-
dale. Dalmatic came home too strongly for
the other pair. He was ridden by Weiss,
who is doing very well, and is trained at the
h arm by Dewsbury, who generally has a fair
horse or two in his stable.
It was thought that Rosendo’s sister
Ramer might redeem the family reputation
in the Berala Handicap. She flattered her
backers for a while, but could not shake off
Promptitude, and subsided weakly into
fourth place. Accepted (4 to 1), nicely
nursed for a late run by James, won handily,
beuig ff ome by an outsider, Runic,
and Promptitude. He also is locally trained,
and races in the colors of Ike Andrews
* * * *
For Randwick on Saturday:—
t *? ond ! . Handi c a P: Roman Spear; next,
Lady Silvius.
Challenge Stakes: Tom Pinch, 1; Capti-
vation, 2 ; Maybe or Treasury. 3.
Topicai aiy Handicap: Trevallion; next,
Paddington Handicap: Alienor; next.
Maybe or Tingalba.
* * ....
Pnn r ?" k T^ US^V ave w ° n the 1904 Caulfield
Cup toi .John Wren with Murmur. In 1921
he nearly landed the Epsom for that patron
with Dunwil. On Saturday at Ascot (Vic.),
a course that Wren will own until the V. T.
and R. A. discharges its indebtedness to him,
Musgrave was fined for speaking his mind
to a weighing-room official. Trouble arose
over use by Musgrave of colors which were
officially regarded as soiled. He has appealed
to the V.R.C. committee.
Every programme at Ascot con-
tains a £5OO race. Last week-end there were
13 runners in the Five Hundred, run over
a distance of 54 furlongs. Throe weeks
before the places in a similar event were
filled by Green Moth, Harry Gavin and
Grenadier, with Valmist a close fourth. 11l
luck prevented Harry Gavin from winning
on that occasion, and F. W. Hoysted felt
confident of the Eurythmic gelding making
amends on Saturday. McShortodds en-
dorsed that view, and clipped the price down
to 5 to 2. Ashley Reed, who usually rides
for Hoysted, is on the injured list, as the
result of a fall at the Mornington Gold Cup
meeting. “Tich” Wilson took the mount on
Harry Gavin, who, however, was soundly
beaten by Valmist and narrowly escaped
being deprived of second place by Green
Moth. Winner is by Valaisian, a half-
brother (by Valais) to Radnor. E. M.
Pearce, who gave a fancy price for
Valaisian, bred Valmist at his Melrose
estate, near Mornington.
James Scobie, whose stables are near the
course, saddled up several horses there on
Saturday. One of these was Tintin (Cyklon
—Teppo) in the second division of the Trial
Handicap. Tintin belongs to E. D. Clarke
and was a bottle-reared foal. He did not
begin racing until recently, as a four-year-
old, and has much to learn. Scobie’s re-
presentative. in the Five Hundred was Dun-
wich, owned by P. 11. Lock, of Werribee.
His dam is a half-sister to the dam of Tintin,
both Teppo and Soft Nose being from the
Carbine mare Dum Dum. The coincidence
extends farther, as Duuwich, like Tintin, is
tour years old and a complete novice. He
had a bad passage, but came home rather
well and may yet do The Night Patrol credit
as a sire.
The event in which Tintin figured was
captured by Dame Isa, who is almost a full
sister to him, being by Cyklon from Isa, by
The Welkin from Teppo. C. B. Kellow
awns Dame Isa. He leased her to E. J.
VY llltnot, of Mentone. In 13 starts this
season Dame Isa has registered six wins and
five seconds. Some of these were in pony
races, but the filly may not be able to get
under the 14.2 standard when next measured,
h irst division of the Trial Handicap re-
suited in a dead-heat between Green View
(Greenstead—-Pterose) and the favorite,
i rince Conceit. Latter was bred by T. M.
Burke and is by Dignity from Miss Char-
lotte, by Red Dennis from Sister Patience,
by Antonio. Impressive form was shown by
Dunlora. The brother to Lorason finished
very fast, only a neck behind the dead-
hen tors. Scobie used to train this Tippler
gelding for the breeder, Hunter White.
Each division of the galloway event was
won by a candidate from the stable of A.
Spark, a nephew of Bob Lewis. Valoria
(formerly raced « in Sydney by Tom
McGrath) was a slightly better favorite
than Meroo in the first division. They kept
on close terms until the straight was entered,
when Valoria drew away and vanquished the
Manfred filly by three lengths. Miss Laughter
had an equally easy task in the second divi-
sion ; but, as the daughter of Manfred
started at 2 to 1 on, Spark would win little
outside the stake.
Ins and Outs
North of England batsmen saved their side’s
bacon in the first innings of the third Test at
Adelaide after the first four batsmen had
gone for 30. Leyland (83) and Verity (45),
°f Yorkshire, Paynter (77). of Lancashire,
and Wyatt (78), of Warwickshire, contri-
buted 283 runs out of England’s total of 341,
and turned what looked like a washout for
England into a well consolidated position
llie returning tide went further in England’s
tavor when Larwood and Allen dismissed
h ingieton (0). Bradman (8) and McCabe
(8) tor 16. Woodfull stayed until he had
made 22, and then Ponsford and Richardson
became associated in a stand which brought
the Australian score to 109 for 4 wickets at
stumps on Saturday.
/{-ll < :„r cket ' vas first-class and the crowd
ot 00,000 easily a record for Adelaide. Jar-
dl“e and went in himself with
Sutcliffe. \\ all bowled him when the skipper
had only 3 up, and Oldfield took Ham-
mond off the same bowler for 2. O’Reilly’s
turn came when Wall at short leg beautifully
caught Sutcliffe off him for 9, and then Iron-
monger bowled Ames for 3. From the begin-
ning of Ins innings, Leyland batted as con-
fidently as if at the nets, using his feet and
not hesitating to loft the ball to the open
spaces. Wyatt proved a worthy partner,
showing his ability to hit the loose ones very
liard; Ins score included three sixes over the
leg fences. Leyland went to O’Reilly when
the partnership had yielded 156, and was
soon followed by Wyatt, who was caught by
Richardson off Grimmett. Another left-
hander in Paynter was then partnered by
Allen, whom Grimmett got l.b.w. for 15
Verity joined Paynter, and they played out
tune. >
On the second morning the pair carried
the score to 324, when Fingleton caught
I aynter off V all. The Lancashire man, if
a rather crude stylist, hit the ball hard and
often, and made a splendid Test debut.
Verity showed unexpected batting form, and
wa.s 4o before Richardson claimed him off
H all. The same bowler then skittled Voce
and with Larwood not out the innings ended.’
Too much praise cannot be given Wall for
lus great showing on a batsman’s wicket
1 In bowled 34 overs for 72 runs and 5
wickets, a performance which ranks with
tae kest done by fast bowlers. O’Reilly
PftK and Grimmett (2-94) should have
had better averages, the Australian catching
being below form. Larwood opened for
England, but Allen took the first wicket,
b ingieton being caught off him by Ames for
0. Bradman followed, but was caught by
Allen off Larwood at 8. and McCabe was
not long in joining him in the pavilion with
the same score, caught by Jardine off Lar-
wood. Ponsford, who had been batting con-
fidently, was joined by Richardson, and the
pair went along well, if slowly, until stumps.
Ponsford’s batting showed some of his old
confidence, and his return to form was wel-
comed by the crowd. Larwood, who exploited
the leg theory after starting with a normal
field, bowled splendidly, his bag being 2 for
29. Allen was also in fine trim with the
ball, getting 2 for 37. Voce (who retired
with an injured foot), Verity and Hammond
bowled without success.
After a promising opening on Monday,
Richardson went to Allen for 28 Batting
on confidently, Ponsford and Oldfield ran
the score to 194 before Voce bowled the Vic-
torian for a meritorious 85. Grimmett
(10) helped Oldfield to take the score to
212 ; then he was caught by Voce off Allen.
V\ all joined Oldfield, who was 41 n.o. when
the board showed 213 for 7 wickets; at this
stage Oldfield was laid out (Larwood was
the bowler, and the crowd gave him a fierce
time), and had to retire hurt. Only 9 runs
had been added when the ninth (in effect
the last) wicket fell. Allen had taken 4
for 71 and Larwood 3 for 55. Voce’s
figures were 1 for 21, Hammond’s 1 for 30.
The visitors began their second innings
badly, losing Sutcliffe for 6.
* * * :!:
. “•lamwood”: After the second Test match
it was announced by some of the copious
old-timers who favor the public with their
views on cricket that the Australians had
definitely mastered” leg-theory bowling.
One or two ventured the prediction that the
stuff would be seen no more. But it was
turned on again at Adelaide; and a swift
one from Larwood struck Woodfull above
the heart. Larwood was hooted while his
mates were administering first aid, and when
he resumed bowling to Woodfull; and going
into the Australian dressing-room to proffer
sympathy, P, F. Warner was severely
snubbed. To him Woodfull said, in effect,
that the Australians were playing the game
and the Englishmen were not; that leg-theory
was unfair and dangerous, and that he
had nothing more to say to the English
manager. Like the good fellow lie is, Wood-
full seems to have repented of liis outburst;
and it is difficult to see why it should have
been addressed to a manager, instead of to
the opposing skipper. I suppose something
"will have to be done about leg-theory; it is
hateful to think of men like Woodfull and
Oldfield being hurt. Still, we should not
forget the most-quoted lines of our favorite
poet:—
No game was ever yet worth a rap
For a rational man to play,
In which no accident, no misha.p,
Could possibly find its way.
They haven’t been quoted this year, so I’m
repairing the omission.
“Yeria”: “Old Q.’s” par. (B. 4/l/’33) is
interesting and timely, but perhaps a little
spice would have been added had he rounded
off his summary by pointing out that
Oxenham’s averages have been made against
the three strongest States, whereas those of
Mailey were made when playing for N.S.W.
(Continued on next page.)
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
At West Melbourne Stadium on Saturday
night Ambrose Palmer (12.24) again beat
Johnnie Freeman (12.134) on points. Free-
man, who looked a lot over the given weight,
Carried the fight to his opponent, using both
hands t;o the body. He had the champion
down in the eighth, but Palmer recovered
well and, relying chiefly on his left, forged
ahead, thoroughly earning the decision. He
was handicapped by the old wound over his
left eye, which was reopened in the ninth
round and bled freely for the rest of the
fight. The doctors had to see to both men
after the mill.
* * S& . *
Walter Browning looked big enough to
wipe the floor with George Penchiff at
Leichhardt, but the Bulgar was much the
speedier, and when they came up for the
sixth round held a good lead on points.
IN either had gained a fall. Then Penchiff
surrendered tamely to a slam, with which
Browning won the match. It looked peculiar,
but it was explained afterwards that Pen-
cliiff had gone in the knees. H’e has synovitis
or something like that.
Racquet and Bawl
Australia came well out of the fourth
and final match with the Americans at
Sydney, the final scores being: America, 6
rubbers, 17 sets, 154 games; Australia,
6 rubbers, 16 sets, 163 games. Allison,
who was off color, forfeited to Crawford on
the second day, while Van Ryn was unable
to face McGrath in their singles on the
Saturday. On the opening day, McGrath
proved too good for Gledliill in two straight
sets, while Quist downed Van Ryn, 7-5, 6-3.
Vines and Gledhill won the doubles event from
Crawford and Hopman by 3 sots to 2. Gled-
hill and Vines beat Quist and Ilopman
respectively, and McGrath and Quist went
down to Allison and Van Ryn in the doubles
Then Crawford brilliantly defeated Vines,
3-6, 7-5, 6-3. In the doubles Allison
and Van Ryn went down by three sets to
one to Crawford and Hopman. The visitors
w^ir S !^ ow * n *-he Australian championships
at Melbourne this week.
(Continued on next page.)
“Hotham”: The English team of dirt-track
motor-cyclists who have been working their
way east from Perth gave Victorian
followers of the game a taste of their
quality at Melbourne Exhibition on Satur-
day night. There were over 20,000 spec-
tators and they got their money’s worth,
the tourists giving some hair-raising displays
of riding. England won the tournev by 32
points to 22.


METROPOLITAN WATER, SEWERAGE
AND DRAINAGE BOARD, SYDNEY.
15 YEARS
LOAN
Issue Price —£98 p.c.
41 p#c . £1,000,000 15 Years
(£500,000 has already been applied for and allotted).
Guaranteed by the Government of New South Wales.
Under existing legislation, the Loan is a Trustee Investment in
New South Wales, Queensland and Tasmania.
Applications will be received at the offices of the Common-
wealth Bank of Australia in Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Hobart up to three o clock p.m.
on 2 7th January, 1933, but the Board reserves the right to close
the Loan without notice at any prior date.
Payment may be made in one amount or by instalments.
Application money and all instalments will be received and
interest paid and principal repaid free of exchange at the offices
of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia in Canberra, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth and Hobart.
Applications will be made for the listing of the Loan on the
Stock Exchanges of Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth
and Hobart.
Stock or Debentures will be issued at option of the applicant.
During the currency of the Loan, Stock may be converted into
Debentures and Debentures into Stock.
Holders of 6i p.c. p.a. Debentures maturing on 20th April,
1933, are invited to convert into this Loan. Conversion to date
from 20th April, 1933. A cash bonus of £2 per £lOO will be
paid on all Conversion Allotments.
Commission at the following rates will be paid on all allot-
ments made in respect of Cash Applications 1 0/- p.c. and Conver-
sion Applications 5/- p.c. lodged by and bearing the stamp of
members of recognised Stock Exchanges in Australia.
Other conditions of the Loan and details of the Board’s
functions and activities are given in the prospectus. Copies of the
prospectus and application forms may be obtained at any Capital
Office pf the Commonwealth Bank of Australia or from any
member of any Stock Exchange through whom applications may
be lodged.
ACTUAL RETURN, £4 8/8 p.c.
T. B. COOPER, President.
F. J. HENRY, Secretary.
Ins and Outs
“Aigburth”: Pestilent rubbish continues
to be written about international cricket in
England and Australia, and incidents like
the barracking of Jardine by hobbledehoys
watching the practice at Adelaide are a
natural result. A writer in the “Manchester
Guardian” sympathises with Bradman be-
cause he is hampered by “powerful, if brain-
less, spellbinders,” the reference, of course,
being to the Board of Control. What a rum-
pus the same journal would raise if an Aus-
tralian paper referred to the Marylebone C.C.
in this ignorant and impertinent fashion!
Further, J. B. Hobbs has joined the gang
which is insinuating that the Australians
have been “doping” the Test wickets against
Larwood and co., the journal lie represents
printing the assertion that “some of us
thought” the pitch in the first Test “had
been doped to spike our bowlers.” He has
since tried to tone the thing down, but the
innuendo is not likely to maintain the sport-
ing spirit of which we hear so much in the
bellow press.
❖ * * $
“Bumpkin”: A few minutes after the Eng-
lishmen’s innings closed in Melbourne the
pitch looked like a ploughed field, dozens of
souvenir-seekers digging up bits of the turf
with their penknives. But this was not the
origin of most of the pieces of the True Pitch
which were being offered for sale outside the
gates by enterprising persons as the crowd
streamed homewards., The purveyors of these
had got no nearer the cricket Holy Land
than the palmers who vended enough pieces
of the Cross about Europe to build a galleon.
* * :|s «
“Glenelg” : Wall’s 5 for 75 in the second
Test at Melbourne brought his tally in first-
class cricket over the 200 mark. His figures
read : 6304 runs, 202 wickets, 31.20 average.
Wall first appeared in first-class cricket for
South Australia in 1928 as second string
to the ex-N. S. Welshman J. D. Scott. His
first Test essay was in 1929, when he took
S wickets for 189 in the fifth Test against
Chapman’s team in Melbourne, which Aus-
tralia won.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: People in England seem
desperately anxious to purchase Australian
cricketers on the hoof. Grimmett has re-
ceived a liberal offer to play for the Rams-
botliam League club in Lancashire, while
Bradman has also been offered good terms by
Ramsbotham and also Rochdale, another
League organisation. It is stated that
McCabe and O’Reilly have also been con-
sidered. Grimmett and Bradman have de-
clined all offers, for the present at any rate,
while McCabe and O’Reilly are tied up, one
bv a contract and the other because he is
a State schoolteacher.
* * * s’:
“Liver”: Clem Hill, the North Sydney
bowler, who astonished liis admirers and him-
self by making 91 against Queensland,
found after it was over that he had been
playing with a boy’s-size bat which he had
taken up in mistake. It is told of A. G.
Steel, probably the greatest all-rounder that
England has known, that he invariably batted
with a bat of this size. Hill’s bat was mafle
by ex-umpire Bob Crockett, who has built
up a flourishing business in Australian bats
manufactured from cricket willow imported
by him from England years ago.
❖ ❖ $ #
England had an easy win against the com-
bined Victorian country team at Bendigo,
scoring 286 to Country’s 215 in the first
innings. Country cracked up badly in the
second go, the English bowlers dismissing
them for 75. Larwood (3-15). Tate (2-16),
Mitchell and Brown (both 2 for 8) got the
Country wickets.
Racquet and Bawl
Tennis-players the world over heard
with the most genuine regret of the untimely
death in Sydney of Mrs. Cozens, whom Aus-
tralia, Europe and America knew and
admired as Daphne Akhurst. One of the
most charming personalities that ever graced
a tennis court, she had innumerable friends
at home and abroad. As a player she was
among the world’s best. She had the unique
experience of winning the Australian singles
title five years running.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Something new to
Australian tennis was seen at the fourth
Test match with America in Sydney, in the
shape of a let cord umpire. Players being,
apparently, unable to see for themselves
whether a ball hitting the top of the net
and going over is a let, an extra expert has
been appointed to settle the intricate point.
That is the trouble with tennis. It carries
too many officials, such as umpires, line
umpires, foot-fault umpires and other varie-
ties, a fact chiefly responsible for the
“temperamental” outbursts so common among
tennis-players. A fashionable method of dis-
agreeing with the decision of one of these
officials is to glare at him as if he were a
newly-discovered cockroach at the bottom of
a beer mug. An increase in the number of
officials will naturally lead to further ex-
asperation, to say nothing of additional eye-
strain.
* * * *
“Habitant”: Though outed early in the
tourney, year in and year out, the Canadians
always come up smiling each time for another
fly at the Davis Cup. They don’t seem to
cultivate headaches wondering whether they
have a team good enough, but just collect the
best material available and wade in. Cer-
tainly their efforts to date have been entirely
confined to the North American continent and
they are not faced with the expense bill of
Australia, but they have shown themselves
a sporting lot. Worth noting that the cap-
tain of their team for this year’s cup is the
veteran Wright, a contemporary of Norman
Brookes, and still going strong.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Amateur Pro.” : British golfers are wop-
dering wnac Bobby Jones’s attitude towards
the forthcoming British open and amateur
championships will be. Robert is known to
be keen on competing in both, but when he
took a film contract to illustrate golf methods
last year he forreited his amateur status.
That, of course, will not affect his entry
for the open, but in the case of the amateur
event it is another story. The situation is
complicated by the -f/.ct that Jones is a
member of the Royal and Antient.
* :j; *
“Hoylake” : For the first time in its his-
tory St. Andrews lias this year decided to
charge admission fees to spectators of the
British open, which will be played on the
famous Royal and Antient course this season.
The idea has already caught on in Australia
—it is universal in America and common on
many British courses —and in five years’ time
will probably be an accepted principle. It
has its hardshell opponents who claim that
the game will be in danger of becoming “com-
mercialised.” It is getting pretty close to
that already.
$
“Sandringham”: The up-to-date Eastern
golf club, which has recently been altering
GETTING THE RIGHT DOPE.
SPOKESMAN : "Hey, mate, can yer give us some dope like yer gives the ’orses? We
wants to dope the wicket for our Test match."
and extending its course at Doncaster ( Vic.),
and generally showing other Melbourne
clubs how things should be done, enjoyed
the signal honor, the other day, of enter-
taining cricketer Jack Hobbs, _ who took a
club in the monthly medal competition. John
had a handicap of 16 and tied for fifth place
with a 71, thus showing that as a cricketer
he is a fair golfer. He was unfortunate at
the 15th, where a fine long drive ran on into
a strip of rough, giving him a bad hole. .
There seems to have been no suggestion on
his part, however, that the fairway had been
doped against him.
* * ❖ *
“Carnoustie” : Someone in Britain has been
calling aicention to the fact that the London
area, with its huge population and hundreds
of golf clubs, is about the worst “pitch,” as
showmen would -say, in Britain for drawing
a big crowd of golf spectators. In the North
of England and Scotland the contrary is the
case, galleries of 25,000 ’and over having
been reported at some of the championship
events. The Londoner apparently chooses to
play golf rather chan watch others doing it,
however expert they may be.
*** ' *
“Ex-Englishman” : If “Susie S.” does get
her British women’s golf team here (B.
4/l/’33), she may be surprised by its flappor-
dom; and certainly Australia will be. Re-
versing our own experience, the youngsters
there beat the veterans so consistently that
the best team, chosen strictly on form, may
not include, any girl with experience enough
to act as captain.
“Sandringham”: Commenting on some of
the world’s best women golfers, the London
“Sporting and Dramatic News” puts the
English player, Joyce Wetliered, out on her
own, although she plays little nowadays.
Two others placed high on the list are Eng-
lish Diana Fisliwick and Virginia Van Wie,
the American champion for the year. It is
worth noting that Victorian Susie Tollmrst,
several times State and Australian champion,
beat the Fisiiwick and the Van Wic when she
met them in the British women’s champion-
ship on Saunton Sands in Devon last year.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: If Malcolm Campbell wins
through his next attempt on the world’s
motor speed record at Daytona—he and his
car are now on tlieir way to the Florida
beach—it is possible he may try again in
Maoriland. At the send-off to the speedster
in London, Tom Wilford, High Commis-
sioner for Maoriland, expressed the hope
that he would think of chancing his luck
on the Ninety-Mile Beach. The beach in
question has been rather under a cloud since
its failure to live up to Wizard Smith’s
expectations.
“Nejd” : What is described as one of the
costliest cars in the world has just been built
for the King of the Hedjaz, the sanctified
monarch who rules at Mecca. It is a super-
sports model with an engine of 250 h.p.
capable of doing 100 m.p.li. over the desert.
It is worth noting that the car. which cost
over £4OOO, has the body covered with bullet-
proof steel. Evidently the sturdy Bedouin
of the Hedjaz have their own way of deal-
ing with road hogs.
-j ; $ *
“Kick Starter”: What was intended to be
a wet blanket has been thrown on the
tour of Australia by a combined team
of English and Australian dirt-track motor-
cyclists, with the added attraction of
“tests.” The Autocycle Union of England
has written to say that no official recog-
nition will be accorded to the tour, and
that the word “tests” may not be used for
the matches between the teams. The Union
says that it alone has the power to organise
and control international visits and to con-
duct tests, yic Huxley, Van Praag and the
rest are bearing up well.
* * * *
“Wooden Rim”: A new safety device for
night cycling comes from Lancashire. It
is a reflector attached.to the pedals of the
bike and takes the place of the usual small
red reflector on the rear mudguard. This
is hard to see until close to the rider. The
inventor claims that, as the new reflector
is continually moving, it can be seen at a
distance of over 100 yards.
Miscellaneous
“Speedogg”: The Australian chess cham-
pionship has been captured by Gregory
Ivoshnitsky with 11 points. “Kosh,” a Bes-
sarabian now domiciled in N. S. Wales —
he came to Australia from Shanghai in
1926- —is the first man to go through a cham-
pionship series unbeaten-—he won nine
games and drew four. W. S. Viner (N.S.W.)
and F. A. Crowl (Vic.) divided second and
third money, and A. G. Shoe,bridge was
fourth. Ex-champion Watson was seventh.
The matches took place in Anthony Hor-
denis’ Art Gallery, and never has a cham-
pionship series been played in cosier sur-
roundings.
* * * *
“Shell”: The cables have been making a
fuss over the alleged intention of Bobby
Pearce to turn professional sculler. A big
professional handicap for a £lOOO prize is
being promoted in Canada, and Pearce is
credited with the opinion that he might as
well have the £lOOO as anyone else. Pearce
denies the story, which is hardly credible.
His good billet with the. Dewar whisky
people is contingent on his remaining an
amateur, and there is not tucker for a
Sydney shopgirl in professional sculling
nowadays. Pearce will compete in the Cana-
dian amateur championships, and it is on
the cards that he may again go to Henley
for the Diamond Sculls, which he has won
once already.
“Blue Chalk” : Walter Lindrum who lias
denied the rumor that he has done with
baulkline billiards, says it is his intention
to uplift the standard of Australian amateur
billiards, which is much lower than that of
Britain, where the amateurs are continu-
ally playing with professionals. Walter
intends to visit South Africa with McCon-
achy and then come on to Australia.
:)« * ifi
“Che Bubio” (Uruguay) : If “The Gaffer”
mentioned to an Argentina that an Italian
won the Olympic Marathon at Eos Angeles
(B 31/8/’32) he would be taking his nte
in his hands. “El Nandu” (S. American
ostrich), as Zabala is called, is, of course,
an Argentino, and next to Dempsey’s former
opponent Firpo, who now sells cars m
Buenos Ayres, the most outstanding athlete
the land of the Gauclio has produced. Argen-
tina won several boxing events at Eos
Angeles, including the heavyweight title, but
the Marathon winner was the only member
of the team who was received by the Presi-
dent on the return to Buenos Ayres. The
victory was a good advertisement for yerba
mate, or Paraguayan tea, on which Zabala
mostly trained. Uruguay’s sole representa-
tive, Douglas, was no match for the Aussie
sculler Pearce, while I expect the war in
Brazil and the revolutions in Chile rather
put those countries at a disadvantage.
* * * *
“The Gaffer” : The Australian British Em-
pire Games Association, which had proposed
to apply for the holding of the Empire Games
in Australia in 1934, has relinquished the
project, and has resolved to press this couu-
try’s claims for 1938. The association also
decided to affiliate with the British Empire
Games Association, with which most of the
Australian amateur athletic organisations
are linked up. Whether there is anything
to be gained by the duplication and tripli-
cation of international contests of the kind
is open to doubt. If the craze for them con-
tinues to increase there will soon be little
time for anyone to work. Indeed, most of
the people taking part in these numerous
and varied competitions nowadays are to
all intents and purposes professionals.
“Iv. Mavourneen” : Sutcliffe and Woodfull
will have to bow their diminished heads as
slow-motion performers when the correspon-
dence draughts match between Maoriland
and America commences this month. Each
nation will select a team of 12, and be-
cause of the time between mails it will take
at least five years to finish the match. The
first game of the kind Australia saw was
a match between Melbourne and Manchester
teams which kicked off in 1870. It was not
completed until 1886! By a merciful dis-
pensation of Providence all the original
starters finished under the tape—at least,
there were never any rumors of ringing in
through vacancies caused by death, gaol or
other of the ills that flesh is heir to.


Position Wanted.
boy, 16, used to farm and
dairy work, desires job, North Coast
preferred, or would go elsewhere. Adver-
tiser, a well-known Sydney citizen, guaran-
tees lad’s character and industry.—No. 7,
This Office.
THE FIRST BANK IN
GEORGE S v, SYDNEY
IN 1822, five years after the Bank of New South Wales
(the first Bank in Australia), opened for business in
Mrs. Mary Reiby's house in Macquarie Place, Sydney,
it established itself in George Street, Sydney, in the premises
pictured above.
In 1817, the paid up capital of the Bank was £3,625 and
its assets £8,751/8/8. To-day, its paid up capital is
£8,780,000, reserve funds £6,150,000 and aggregate
assets exceed £107,000,000.
This great Australian institution, keeping pace with the
development of the country, offers through its 705 branches
and agencies, the most complete facilities for the trans-
action of banking business throughout the world.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and
The Australian Bank of Commerce Ltd.
are amalgamated
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
Last week’s heat wave failed to take the
starch out of the Education Conference. In
fact, you might say the starch became a
bit more prominent, because some of the dele-
gates took off their coats and got down to
the education of the child mind in their shirt
sleeves. This Letter, panting on a back
seat in the lecture-hall of the Teachers’ Col-
lege, was disappointed not to hear more of
the sex giving tongue as to the reactions
of the younger fry to such subjects as music,
art and science. Indeed, there were not
many women present, and those who were
there seemed content to turn a respectful ear
to the strong unsilent male.
Several groups of nuns sat up in the front
chairs looking a miracle of coolness despite
their heavy habits and white wimples, and
turned a particularly attentive ear to Pro-
fessor A. Mackie’s discourse on Standards
of Evaluation in Education. This was deli-
vered in a clear, detached voice, and it was
interesting to study the voices from the South,
the West and our own State which sprang
on the different points and worried them
like a puppy might a bone. Yes, and some
of the voices were blurred enough to have
had a bone somewhere in the background.
It is no use pretending; the art of speech is
not our great national strong point.
But what you liked to see, looking round,
was the keenness for their job evinced by
these men and women who had come from
Westralia, from Victoria, South Australia
and even little Tasmania with one object
in their minds, that of giving the kid a
better chance. The Tasmanian complexion
is no myth; the delegates from the Apple
Isle had cheeks warm with the color that
only clear frosty mornings can paint. There
were several Oxford M.A.’s among the con-
ferred. This Letter heard only one, J. Dar-
ling, but in the few words he spoke there
was no sign of the alleged Oxford bleat.
To Miss L. G. Woodcock, vice-president
of the conference, much of the smooth run-
ning of the arrangements was. due; also to
the staff of the college, who prepared lunches
and teas for well over a hundred without
turning a hair. And what a model of
everything it should be the kitchen is! Spot-
less and flyless, it has covers for everything
that can be covered. It has mountains of
shining plates and cups and saucers, and
from the amount of its cutlery you might
think you were in Sheffield. You are not
surprised when the matron tells you that
sometimes there are a thousand students to
provide refreshment for.
The aesthetic, in spite of Prof. Osborne’s
warning of what happened to the Greeks
through the invasion of the aesthetic in
science, plays quite a happy part in the
Teachers’ College. In the lecture hall there
is a grand piano, and on the speaker’s table
a great vase of pink roses. The corridors
are lined with landscape and seascape by
moderns and copies of portrait studies by
old masters. Fine needlework, some good
bits of china and embroideries from Greece
glow from behind the walls of glass cases.
Bondi is luring all the prettiest beach
wraps from Bellevue Hill and Darling Point
in the early, early morning. But the sands
and the breakers are the playgrounds of the
hundred per cent, males, too, and one of the
jolliest among them is Hugh Lygon, who
rides a surf board in quite an expert manner.
Earl Beauchamp hovers between the Moun-
tains and Bondi, and loves both even in the
hottest days when he is apt to get burnt
almost to blistering point. In another life
he’ll probably be a lifesaver. On New Year’s
Day he sent along pints and pints of beer
so that his friends in the surf club could
wish themselves all of the best.
There is widespread distress over the death
(under an anaesthetic) last week of pretty
Daphne Akhurst, the most brilliant woman
tennis-player Australia has turned out.
Daphne, who in married life was Mrs. Roy
Cozens, won the Australian title for the
last time in 1930; after her marriage she
was rarely seen on the courts. Mrs. Cozens
was a clever pianist, and in 1922, at Sydney
Conservatorium, she gained the double
diploma of D.S.C.A., performer and teacher.
But most of all she will be remembered
for the charm and the sweetness of disposi-
tion which won her instant and fast friend-
ships wherever her travels took her.
The beauty and dignity of the lines of
Racine’s “Athalie” flowed over the Amphi-
theatre at Balmoral last Thursday night.
The moon silvered the Harbor, from the
Heads the night wind blew cold and clean
and the waves broke on the sands just beyond
the stage. Belgium’s Consul-General Segaert,
who produced the play, was the High Priest
Joad, and wore his white robes and jewelled
head-dress impressively. He imbued his lines
with power and poetic feeling, and had seen
to it that the grouping of the brightly-
robed people of the play was fluent and effec-
tive. Athalie, the murderous Queen, was
played by Mrs. G. Brenac, and Mrs. A.
Brenac, who was Henriette Segaert. was
the gentle Josabeth. The setting seemed
perfect for the noble verse of Racine, and
the audience hung upon every word’ and
applauded with a nicety of appreciation.
Hot sunshine cooled by a north-easter,
courts in perfect condition, and three or four
thousand spectators turned the lawn-tennis
grounds at Rushcutter Bay into a spirited
scene last Thursday. Like Sunshine Susie,
everybody felt happy, and all the girls wore
their smartest ; blues and .yellows were the
most favored colors. Shantung frocks (it
can’t' possibly be because of reduced prices)
that shaded between primrose and saffron
appeared in great numbers; and blue and
white frocks ran them a close second. White
shoes and white and black shoes seemed the
favorite footwear; hats were mostly large,
though here and there a girl keen on the
pencil-slim silhouette wore hers small.
The wives of the American players were
discreetly devoured by the eyes of woman
and found not wanting. Mrs. Van Ryn was
cool and alert-looking in her yellow wash-
ing silks and large white Panama; Mrs.
Allison topped her blue linen with a white
felt hat, but Mrs. Ellsworth Vines wore a
small hat with her daffodil shantung frock.
Madge Elliott’s outfit of white silk pique,
large white linen hat, and white and red
spotted hankie was the most enviable pres-
ent, but perhaps the wearer as much as the
worn was responsible. Cyril Ritchard and
Frank Leighton were others of the observed.
Mrs. Hall, whose husband is in H.M.A.S.
Albatross, watched the game keenly from be-
neath her black ballibuntal. Before her
marriage she was a Victorian tennis player
of note. Mrs. Roy Buckland and Mrs. Mal-
colm MacCormick were among the yellow-
clad, but Philippa Stephen plumped for pink
and white stripes and Helen was in white
served with currant-red. Mary Hordern,
Hazel King and Jean Anderson were others
of the smartly-equipped onlookers.
Bright-cheeked Kathleen Trefle flashed an
engagement ring in greeting to the first day
of 1933. Her young man is Frank Hidden,
who, in addition to being one of Sydney’s
newest barristers, is quite a good amateur
actor. Kathleen’s father was the late John
Louis Trefle, sometime Minister of Lands
and Agriculture—he died in harness in 1915.
Temora will be interested in this engage-
ment, for Mrs. Trefle was one of the Shelleys
of the district, and Kathleen’s father, too,
came from thereabouts.
This Letter met the Girl from the Flat
Opposite coming home from a Turkish bath
the other day. She intimated that she was
keeping her weight down. She didn’t put it
that way though; she said, “I have been
getting some of my lard off.”
The courts at Rushcutter Bay were
the most inhabited bit of Sydney on Friday
afternoon, and on Saturday the lookers-on
were six or seven thousand strong. Of
course the charity worker didn’t let the
opportunity slip, and gaily-hued cushions
were hired out in the interests of the Kin-
dergarten Union. Summer raiment was car-
ried jauntily by both the male and female
of the species; Sydney men seem to have at
length discovered that panamas and straw
hats are cooler than the once-übiquitous felt.
On Friday, Miss Hall and American visitor
Mrs. Van Ryn, who played in an exhibition
doubles, were white from eye-shade to boots,
their workmanlike frocks being box-pleated.
Madge Elliott, looking cool as a water-lily,
watched the play in pale green cre»pe topped
by a wide white linen hat. Cyril Ritchard
was with her. Anne Gordon allied a green
frock with a saucy white lid of no dimen-
sions whatever ; and Mrs. Frank Peach was
another wearer of the green. Norman
Brookes was noted; so was Helen Hughes.
Is there no end to the giving of these
Diggers? When the war was ended the
Returned Soldiers’ League decided to found
a scholarship
fund for the
benefit of the
ch i 1 dren of
their dead
comrades. The
sum of £23,000
was collected
among the
Diggers them-
selves ; and of
this more than
£lB,OOO has
gone to help
build careers
for soldiers’
sons and
daughters. The
girl in this
picture, Jean
Batty, is one
of the league’s
foster children,
and from the
soldier fund
she has been trained as a singer at the
Melbourne Conservatorium. A few weeks
ago she was chosen to understudy Mary
Hotham as Tessa in ‘The Gondoliers,” and
last Wednesday afternoon she stepped into
the part, and made a great success. Jean
is a happy girl with plenty of initiative.
During her studies at the Melbourne Con.
she worked as a clerk in the Commonwealth
Bank.
Little Mrs. Arthur Scrivener is making
a gallant though drawn-out recovery in St.
Luke’s. The lady in her most robust
moments was only a featherweight, but for
courage and keeping a stiff upper lip she
could outlast many a champion of the ring.
Authority hopes that by the end of the
week Mrs. Scrivener will be sufficiently
recovered to go home.
We suppose we must blame Miss Sackville-
West for going all Edwardian in our fashions.
She made the ladies of that period sound
so alluring in her novel “The Edwardians”
that the modern dress-designer began to
thumb back the old fashion-plates of 30 and
more years ago. Waists, whether you like
it or not, are in, very much in, but busks and
laced corsets are not for the woman of to-day
who counts her. calories. Shaped corset
girdles are sufficient to model her lines to
fashion’s demands. Ruffles and frills and
jabots will sprout from the new suits, and
revers will stand out and coats will button
just in the right place to have left Mr. Merdle
no doubt as to whether you had a bosom
worthy of displaying his diamonds. These
jackets will fit snugly about the waist, but
skirts will be smart and trig. One feature
of the new tailorings which. the well-dressed
woman will be pleased over is the detachable
and washable cotton lining.
The Mclnnes and Longstaff tradition has
this year been broken, and the Archibald
prize goes to Ernest Buckm,aster, of Mel-
bourne. But, alas! the £370 is a shrunken
amount compared with the figure reached in
other years. Both Mclnnes and Longstaff
show entries, and the latter has a portrait of
Melbourne’s pretty Valerie Purves, who is
well known in Sydney. Knight William
Irvine is the subject of the winning portrait.
A lot of money is being spent on “Bon
Accord,” the road-house- near Springwood
which the H. D. Mclntoshes are busy popu-
larising. The garden of the old Stewart
Dawson home is ablaze with expensive
flowers; a big vegetable garden is being laid
out on the eastern side, and there is a golf
course which rivals the Springwood G.C.
next door. The story goes that H'.D.M.
did young Stewart Dawson, to whom the
property belongs, a good turn in the long
ago, and that the young man is backing the
new venture out of gratitude. They had to
turn people away during the holidays, but
whether the big building fills up during the
winter months remains to be seen. Lord
Beauchamp and his son, Ada Reeve and Mr.
and Mrs. Smith (he is chairman of directors
of the N.S.C.) have been frequent visitors.
Doreen Higgins has published a cookery
book in which there are simply hundreds of
good receipes, all known intimately to the
author, who is as much at home with pot
and pan as with a fountain pen. The book
will be sold for St. Luke’s, the hospital to
which Doreen swears unwavering loyalty.
One of the most interested visitors Taronga
has welcomed was Lord Salversen, who with
Lady Salversen came to Sydney last week-
end by the Maunganui. He’s an important
person in the council of Edinburgh’s Zoo,
being in fact its president. In addition to
this he’s a P.C. and a retired Judge. Lady
Salversen, who was a former president of
the Edinburgh branch of the National Coun-
cil of Women, has already linked up with
local National Councillors, to whom she
brings greetings from Lady Aberdeen.
This is Isabel McDonagh, the acting one
of the three McDonagh sisters, who have
no w made
four Austra-
lian pictures.
As Marie Lor-
rai n e, the.
French girl in
“Two Minutes’
Silence,” Isa-
bel is a dis-
tinct success,
and the audi-
ence in the
Prince Edward
last Sunday
gave her quite
an ovation.
The play was
produced by
Paulette Mc-
Donagh, while
pretty Phyllis
did the publi-
c i t y. The
play is by
Leslie Haylen,
a Wagga journalist, and is a poignant posy
of Armistice Day memories.
Mrs. Herrick Knowles, not long back from
a year in the south of France (Cap Martin,
to be exact) with playwright brother Dion
Titheradge, is eagerly awaiting the mails
with news of the play in which sister Madge
made her return to the stage. “Business
with America” was the Christmas feature
at the Haymarket in London, and Madge is
reported by one who saw a dress rehearsal
to have looked ravishing in a lace princess
gown, lightly embroidered with the crystal
bead known to the Victorians as bugles.
The lace is worn over a long fitting sheath
of satin, and it has three-quarter sleeves
which are cuffed in sable. This is Madge’s
first stage appearance since her marriage to
a rich American two or three years ago.
The C.W.A. tea party in the Botanic
Gardens last week was a record for attend-
ance. Country members in town were the
guests of the metropolitan group, and its
president, Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, sparkled
when she saw the roll-up. Members from
every district in N. S. Wales and from as
far north as Rockhampton were among the
tea-drinkers. Mrs. Fairfax has newly taken
over the presidency of this group from Mrs.
J. A. Perkins, whose husband’s Ministerial
duties necessitate much of their time being
spent at Canberra.
In Dunedin (M.L.) the girl who elects
to take domestic science can go on to the
University and get her degree, just the same
as her sister who has decided to decorate
medicine or the arts with her genius. The
compact, quietly dignified group of build-
mgs of Oamaru stone through whose
grounds the Water of Leith babbles and
slips over its pebbly bed is the only univer-
sity south of the line with a home-science
department. Sydney has been hearing all
about its work from Mrs. W. N. Benson,
who before her marriage to the University’s
Professor of Geology was dean of the Home
Science School and Professor in charge of
bio-chemistry and nutrition. If you are
clever enough you can pluck a degree of
B.Sc. after a four years’ course, and a
Master’s degree if you care to polish off
with a further two years’ special study.
Mrs. Benson is a graduate of Newnham,
Cambridge, and was a post-graduate at Lon-
don University. She’s a high light of the
League of Nations Union and the Inter-
national Federation of University Women,
and a vice-president of Enzed’s National
Council of Women. Never say again that
only the dullard wields a clever frying-pan !
Queensland’s quillful
The Governor, with Lady Wilson and daughter
Marjorie, went to the opening of the British film
“Maid of the Mountains” at the Wintergarden
Theatre. Nancy Brown, who plays Teresa, is a
niece of E. J. Brown, the elocutionist, well-known in
Repertory circles.
The wedding of the week was that Of lan Scott
and Dorothea Collins at Nindoorinbah House, .Beau-
desert. The bride is the elder daughter of the late
William Collins and of Mrs. Collins; the ’groom,
lan Colin Scott, of Iton Court, England, is the
son of the late Lieut. Colin Stacey Scott, R.N.
The Rev. B. P. Walker officiated in the little
station church, the brown panelling and: rose-colored
windows backgrounding masses of white flowers.
John Collins gave away his sister, who was in white
cr6pe romaine; the Brussels veil had been worn by
her great-great-grandmother. Penelope Cay,
daughter of Captain Cay, of the Invincible, one of
the stalwarts of Jutland, came from Sydney to
’maid in lily-o’-the-valley green georgette. The
wedding breakfast was in a marquee on the lawn;
the wedding cake stood on silver pillars and bore
pastoral emblems. Mrs. William Collins wore
Helvetia green cr6pe and black picture hat; Mrs.
Dudley Persse, the bride’s sister, chose blue and
white floral crfipe de Chine; white patterned in
black and cherry was worn by Beryl Collins. A
moving picture of the ceremony for English rela-
tives was taken by Monte Luke. The ’moon rises
in Maorilahd; later Mr. and Mrs. Scott go to
England to live.
Philip Francis Browne married Hazel Nellie
Stapleton in St. Joseph’s, Kangaroo Point. The
bride, who was given away by her father, was in
ivory satin beaute and tulle veil. Her sisters,
Mesdames H. C. Russell and W. Gunn, were
matrons of honor in lido blue. Pink and lemon
were worn by the bride’s nieces, Fay and June
Russell, as flower-girls. The reception was at the
Gresham.
Fred de Jersey and his hansom cab took out their
55th yearly license this month. Fred began his
driving in 1870 and was then No. 84 out of 300
cabs in Brisbane; now he is No. 1, there being no
other. The veteran Jehu recalls driving Jimmy
Tyson to catch a Sydney boat and just missing it.
They raced round to Bulimba Ferry, Tyson pro-
mising De Jersey £2 if they caught the boat;
this was done, but Tyson deducted ss. for the
ferryman.
At St. James’s, Toowoomba, Harold Lesina Francis
married Lorna, Wockner. The bride, who was given
away by her father, was in bisque bridal satin
and Chantilly with tulle veil. Nasturtium-tinted
chiffon was worn by the ’maids, Lilian Wockner,
Joyce and Thora Fox; Dell Margetts and June
Beechester were trainbearers. The Alexandria Cafe
saw the feast.
May Macfarlane, widow of Cyrus Macfailane of
the “Daily Mail,” has been appointed matron of
the Warwick Hostel run by the C.W.A.
Labor Minister Hynes’s daughter Eileen was feted
at a bridge party in the Jenolan Cafe by the
Labor Party Sports and Recreation Club, and pre-
sented with crystal vases.


IT I FADS IN
MINING AND FINANCE
THE PERTH
THE LARGEST NEWSPAPER
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Authentic information .gathered from
most reliable quarters is published
in each issue. Gold-mining in the
West is booming. Your investments
for 1933 need careful consideration
—let the “Sunday Times” be your
guide.
THE GOLD YIELD
for 1932 exceeded 600,0000 z., and
the value, including premium,
totalled £4,374,000.
ADVERTISE IN THE BIG SUNDAY
PAPER IN CLOSE TOUCH WITH
THIS VALUABLE MARKET.
A Gold Mine for Advertisers!
The Expert
View
Cbc n.Z. Referee
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
WEEKLY.
The week s activities in Racing!
Trotting, Horse Breeding, Boxing,
Wrestling, Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and Whippet Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers.
Exclusive features in the Referee
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman s Radio Log giving the
week’s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
“Referee” leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Head Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Special Announcem en
to National Advertisers
Clk lH«rcury
Tasmania’s National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices of
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—•
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House, 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
Educational.
METHODIST LADIES’COLLEGE, BURWOOD
Founded 1886.
BOARDING AND DAY SCHOOL,
In addition to the classical classes, and included
in the ordinary curriculum, a new Secretarial and
Business Training Course will commence with the
next term, which begins on February 8.
Principal.. REV. T. F. POTTS.
Head Mistress, Miss SUTTON, B.A.
'Sew illustrated prospectus upon application to the
Principal.
Amusements.
7 c. WILLIA M S O N, LTD.,
J MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
WALTZES FROM VIENNA.
“Good Old Broken Hill”
That's what they all say when forced to leave
it. “The Happiest Days of my life were
spent there,” say many, after making a fortune
there. The best climate, the best money and
the best people for spending it in the whole
of Australia.
And the best newspaper,
with the most sales in all the Far West,
"THE BARRIER MINER”
Melbourne
Chatter
A charity gymkhana at Hartley Lodge,
Frankston, residence of Mrs. 11. Embling,
attracted a large crowd. In one event, for
women, the entrants rode side-saddle. Mary
Baillieu, lately back from England, wore the
latest fashion in hunting attire. The skirt
is cut on long apron lines and is not joined,
merely wrapped round and fastened at the
waist over the usual riding breeches. Miss
Baillieu’s costume had a skirt of chocolate-
hued cloth, topped with a smart rounded
coat in check tweed in fawn and brown
tones, and her felt hat was plain brown.
Lorna Embling wore a similar costume. A
side-attraction of the day’s sport was a
dog-show in which the entrants were judged
on expression and peculiarities instead of
on pedigree and points. A fancy-dress
parade of dogs was a feature of this depart-
ment, won by a terrier in tartan. The day
was beautifully cool and clear, and alfresco
tea parties were general. The band of the
Minton Boys’ Home played.
The picnic at the Ministering Children’s
League’s holiday home at Queenscliff drew
a big crowd. In the throng were Mayor and
Mayoress King, of Queenscliff.
Twenty-eight pupils of the C. of E. Girls’
Grammar School are visiting Tasmania.
Landing at Launceston, the party intends
to make its way to Hobart, camping in the
open for six days at Lake Fenton en route.
Miss Cousans, who was in charge of the
group of schoolgirls who had so jolly a
time at the Barrier Reef last year, is direct-
ing the jaunt in association with Miss M.
Clarke, another of the teaching staff, and an
ex-student, Miss A. Strickland.
At the Royal Horticultural Society’s show
25 new varieties of gladioli were shown.
One of the floral debs., pure white, has been
called Bert Hinkler by its originator, H‘. 11.
Brown, of Camberwell.
Beryl, daughter of the Chris Cowpers, of
Macedon, was winner of the ladies’ singles
championship in the G.W.A. tournament
at the Mount. Miss Cowper and her sister
Maisie have earned a reputation as talented
amateur actors. They have staged several
profitable shows for charity. They will
accompany Mrs. W. Campbell Guest to Eng-
land on the Otranto in March.
The city has been invaded by a horde of
schoolgirls, all in golden brown stitched
linen hats with a band of dark green. They
came from every State under the auspices
of the Y.A.L. A bunch of the girl students
from South Australia, supplemented by a
few dozen from this State, extended their
sight-seeing to the Apple Isle.
Frankston residents and visitors had a
dance at the Fernery in aid of the Minton
Boys’ Home, the hop being engineered by
the Frankston Auxiliary of the institution,
of which Mrs. J. R. Dunstan is president.
Marea Lucas was hon. sec. About 150
couples gyrated.
Queenscliff is crowded with summer
visitors; all available houses are taken and
hotels and boarding-houses have waiting
lists. Many Western District people have
holiday homes here and Ballarat has strong
representation. Among those who are spend-
ing the vacation in the vicinity are the
Master of Ormond, Mr. D. K. Picken, and
his wife, who nave rented a house, and Mrs.
Alfred Deakin, her daughter, Mrs. White,
and their family. Mr. White was also a
visitor till duty called him to Canberra.
Financed by a Government loan of £30,000
made through the State Employment Coun-
cil, the Queen Victoria Hospital is to have
a new wing on similar architectural lines
to the Jessie McPherson community block.
This will replace the old outpatients’ de-
partment, and will also give much-needed
accommodation for doctors and nurses. The
foundation stone will be laid in April.
The silkworm can go and hide its dimin-
ished head, for the sheep has beaten it for
a job it has had since time immemorial —the
provision of fabric for the award ribbons of
the R.A.S. All ribbons awarded next Sep-
tember will be woven of wool, a very sen-
sible and appropriate change, though it
means a bit of extra expense.
The Uni. held a special degree-conferring
session to hand Marcus W. Ashton, son of
the Bishop of Grafton, his LL.B. Mr.
Ashton developed ’flu in exam, week last
year and most of his papers were done in
bed in the presence of a supervisor. One
paper was mislaid and only recently dis-
covered. Mr. Ashton can now begin to serve
his articles with a city solicitor. He has a
brother and a sister practising medicine, and
his mother, daughter of the late J. G. Ander-
son, one-time Queensland Director of Edu-
cation, holds a degree.
Hook-rug makers will have a chance, to
display their triumphs at a show organised
by ■ the Braille Writers’ Association, to be
held in the middle of March.
Florence Johnson, who resigned at the
end of the year the presidency of the Women
Teachers’ Association, sprang a surprise on
her friends by being married to F. A. Ing-
ram, in Perth, on the last day of 1932. Mr.
and Mrs. Ingram returned from the West
during the week and will settle in Mel-
bourne. At present they are residing at
Warrandyte.
The engagement is announced of Millicent,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Richards, of
Middle Brighton, to Tony le Poer Darvall.
whose dad is head of the legal firm of Darvall
and Horsfall.
Receiving congratulations on their engage-
ment are Marjorie, elder daughter of the
late John Good and of Mrs. Good, of
Ingelby, South Yarra, and Jim, only son
of E. A. Leving, of Camberwell.
A Melbourne woman lately returned from
a visit to London brings the news that one.
of the smartest mixed clubs there, the
Garden, is being run by Mrs. Maesmore
Morris, formerly of this city. Theatregoers
who saw Julius Knight in “The Sign of the
Cross” will remember her as a very beauti-
ful mummer in that drama and other plays
of the same season.
What memories the death of Mrs. Eliza
Chomley, at 91, in a private hospital in
Melbourne a few days ago, called up ! She
arrived in 1851, the year Victoria dis-
carded the name of Port Phillip on obtain-
ing separation from N.S.W. Her dad was
T. T. a’Beekett, who was in the Uppish
House from 1858 to 1878, and of her three
brothers the best known was the late Justice
a’Beckett, senior puisne Judge and once or
twice Administrator. For a long time her
late husband, Henry, was manager of the
Bank of Australasia, Warrnambool. Apart
from his own ability and status Henry got
some reflected glory from his brother Hussey,
who was Chief Commissioner of Police, and
another who was a County Court Judge. A
daughter and two sons survive the grand
old dame.
A Dickenson-Monteath camera made this
picture of Nancy, elder daughter of the
Oswald Symes,
who, aided by
her sister
Margaret, en-
gineered tli e
recent tennis
tourney a t
Mt. Macedon,
which brought
some welcome
boodle into
the coffers of
the C.W.A.,
of which their
mother is a
vice-president.
Mrs. Syme
presides over
the home in-
dustries and
h a n d i c rafts
committee of
th e associa-
tion, and in
such capacity
organised very successful shows in Mel-
bourne Town 'Hall during the “Wear More
Wool” campaign.
Margery Robertson, of South Yarra, 'who
passed over at 73, was for 50 years a
teacher under the Education Department,.
starting as a pupil teacher and rising to be
headmistress of the old Melbourne High
School. She retired ten years ago, retaining
a link with her profession as a member of
the Council of Education. She was also
on the Council of the Emily McPherson
College since its inception. She took a
great interest in the Old Students’ Associa-
tion.
A link with the old-time social life _of
Melbourne was snapped with the passing
of Mrs. Elliott Cairns in her 80th year.
Her childhood was spent in Tasmania, where
her' parents made their first home in Aus-
tralia, later coining •to South Yarra. She
was a lovely debutante and an even more
handsome matron. She married the late
Elliott W. Cairns, Government Geologist.
Surviving her are three daughters—Mrs. J.
Crookes and Mrs. O. Delohery, of Melbourne,
and Mrs. Thomson, of Neutral Bay, Sydney
-—and two sons, Elliott and George.
Elizabeth and Ann, daughters of the
handled Stawells, are members of a party
of girls which is leaving next month for
travel abroad. Mrs. George Landale and
her daughter Janet, Dorothy Merritt and
Betty Clarke are .also applicants for pass-
ports.
Ernest Buckmaster, winner of this year’s
Archibald Prize, is a Melbourne painter
who began his career as a signwriter. He
attended National Gallery classes at night
and later had the benefit of a year or so of
study in Europe. He has not been back in
Melbourne very long.
- Mrs. A. M. Kauffmann, who publishes her
musical compositions under the name of
Linda Phillips, has been asked by violinist
Szigeti for a copy of her “Hebraic Elegy,”
which he intends to include in his repertoire.
The piece was recently performed by violin-
ist Phil Cohen at a musicale at Mrs. Kauff-
mann’s home, East St. Kilda. accompanied
by the composer. Other contributors to the
afternoon’s programme were singers Dorothy
Penfold and Estelle Mark and pianists Ariel
Seeligson, Alice Newstead and Gladys Cun-
liffe.
The lady pictured here by Dickenson-
Monteath is
the wife of
Herbert W.
Gepp, chair-
man of the
D e velopmcnt
and Migration
Com mission,
who was made
a K.B. by
George Rex
at the New
Year. Th e
new knight
hails from
Adelaide, but
his lady is a
Victorian. She
is on the
committee of
the Austin
Hospital for
Chronic
Diseases, and
is a member
of the Victoria League.
J. F. Koch, secretary of the Lawn Tennis
Association for the last quarter of a cen-
tury, has resigned owing to ill-health. The
council has given him six months’ leave of
absence and presented him with a life
annuity.
As more than 25 per cent, of the dwellings
in the Toorak ward of Prahran city consist
of flats —some of them very palpably flats—
there is a - graver danger than was here
suggested about two years ago that the very-
best will desert their mansions and villas
and flit elsewhere. Toorakia will then become
but a husk of itself. When there were only
a few of the flatite structures and their archi-
tecture was such as to make them hardly
distinguishable from the one-family home, the
dyed-in-the-wool Toorakians didn’t mind, par-
ticularly when the denizens were of their own
crowd, or close up to it; but now some of tin;
earlier flats have become boarding- or apart-
ment-houses of the sort described in ads. as
“select,” which, rightly or wrongly, is inter-
preted as shabby-genteelish. It may be neces-
sary for the Toorakians who regard them-
selves as the genuine quality to form a syn-
dicate, zone some area a little further out
from the city and from its ideally-planned
square-mile, or whatever size it is, exclude
flatites and all unprepared to spend less than
£2500 on land and shack.
On a recent Sabbath the Chatterer had
the pleasure of motoring with some friends
to the holiday home, at Sassafras, of Mrs.
A. T. Ilam, proprietress of the Wattle tea-
rooms in Little Collins-street. At this hills
place are grown the flowers used in the
business premises. The blooms to dress the
place had been gathered and were ready to
be dispatched to the city when the visitors
arrived. And they made an imposing show,
including 7000 orange and gold Peruvian
lilies. SOO red-hot pokers, hundreds of gaii-
lardias and pink and blue lupins, to say
nothing of foliage and cactus-like flax plants.
At Adelaide: —
William Sowden, and his lady have returned, after
an extensive tour, to their home, Castlemaine, at
Victor Harbor.
The Conservatorium opera class is getting busy.
It will give a week’s performance of “Merrie
England” at Easter, and its mid-year performance
will be the light opera “La Mascotte.” Mr. H.
Winsloe Hall is director, Janies Anderson producer,
and Phyllis Leitch ballet mistress.
Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Leschen, from Colombo, arc
the guests of Mrs. ,T. Leschen, Rose Paik. ihej
will visit the Eastern States and Maoriland before
returning to Ceylon.
Mr. and Mrs. Ca in Wald, of Rockhampton, and
their two daughters are on a visit to Adelaide. They
are the guests of Mrs. James Wald and Mrs. Eiic
Hillhouse, at Toorak.
Mrs. H. H. Dutton and her sons have gone to
American River, Kangaroo Island, for a holiday.
Mesdames Roy Burston and Humphrey Makin, with
their respective families, have gone to Mrs. Dutton’s
seaside residence at Victor Harbor for the college
vacation.
A word from the West: —
Nora, elder daughter of Captain and Mrs. Coalstad,
of Fremantle, is betrothed to Dr. Ralph Crisp, one
of Perth’s most popular and eligible bachelors.
Nora has a classic profile and is a brilliant pianist.
The “West Australian” has been celebrating its
100th birthday in its new home, Newspaper House.
Chairman of directors H. 15. Jackson, managing
editor C. P. Smith, knights James Mitchell, Talbot
Hobbs and Walter James offered lengthy speeches
and C. 11. Arnott a few words, the brevity of
which drew most applause. For there were no chairs
and the hot day turned thoughts to tea rather
than Empire-building. A message from the Cold
Country, spoken by Charles Crabtree, whose name
is borne by the new printing press, came through
the microphone amidst a hubbub of squeals and
whistling.
With the idea of imparting arts and crafts to
country women, Miss M. Stubbs is travelling through
the South-West. Miss Stubbs holds a certificate
from the School of Arts and Crafts, Sheffield, England,
which affirms her capabilities of eye and fingers in
the fashioning of beautiful things for the home.
Eighty students work at 6WF under her instruc-
tion. The Country Women’s Association is sponsor-
ing Miss Stubbs's visit.
Mrs. J. J. Holmes and Violet packed their suit-
cases for the Strathaird and a saunter through palmy
Ceylon. Owen Dowson boarded the same liner.
Her destination is India, where she has a brother
to visit.
Youthful Kitty Macartney was wedded on a recent
evening to Dr. Alec Magnus. The bridal garment
of ivory taffetas was moulded to the figure and
puffed into leg-,of-mutton sleeves. A beautiful lace
veil mingled with the flowing train. Betty Merry-
weather ’maided in vieux rose. Dr. Walter Seed
was best man and the bride was given away by her
brother Jimmy. Mrs. Macartney invited intimate
friends to toasts and wedding cake at her home.
Country women and girls are encouraged to attend
the course in Rural Household Science, to be held
early in February at the Technical School. What
to eat and why, nureing the babes through epidemics
and how to tackle their boils and scratches, hygiene,
cooking, upholstery and dressmaking are some of
the subjects of the course. If a student has a taste
for mechanics or wool-classing, she can obtain much
useful knowledge. Lectures are free and considerable
railway concessions have been granted.
From beyond Bass Strait: —
All roads led to Ferntree on the day of the annual
Strawberry Feast in aid of St. Raphael’s. Crowds
ran up by car for a whiff of mountain air in that,
lovely setting. Lady Allardyce opened the ball
and brisk business was done by stallholders.
A dinner at Hadley’s was given by members of
the Commercial Union Assurance Co. to R. F.
Crosby on his retirement after 50 years’ representa-
tion of that body in the Speck. Premier McPhee
was among the guests.
Barbara, daughter of the J. L. Butlers, Ferntree,
and James Guthrie, Hobart, announce their engage-
ment.
Professor Mungo MacCalluni and his lady are back
again at Ferntree, their usual refuge in the summer
months. Professor and Mrs. Bernard Heinze are
among other of our visitors.
Senator C. W. and Mrs. Grant opened hospitable
doors for a dance which served as an revoir to
their eldest girl, who is off to England shortly, and
as welcome home to daughter Nancy, now a legal
practitioner in Melbourne. High Peak makes a
lovely setting for any festivity.
Mrs. R. 0. and Mrs. D. N. Shoobridge were among
country hostesses during the holidays, combining in
a dance for their daughters Nora and Frances at
Forest Lodge, Glenora.
The Longford Race Club had a capital day for
their meeting. Chairman and Mrs. R. C. Field
received hosts of folks, Mrs. Field wearing soft
black satin and boater hat. Mrs. Guy Meredith,
whose husband is the club’s secretary, was in yellow
floral linen and big hat to match. Nearly all the
frocking was light and summery.
For the ball given by a committee of Midland
bachelors, with Tom Riggall as hon. sec., Powell’s
Hall was dolled up in streamers of all colors and
masses of snapdragons. Over 200 guests footed it
to the dance music of Heyward’s orchestra.
One of the Japanese buyers arrived at the Tas.
wool sales with a commission to purchase a few
of the best fleeces, regardless of cost, the finest wool
being wanted for a robe for the Japanese Empress.
He made the selection from one of the Cameron
clips, going to 281 d. per pound.


m
w
WOT
NOT
NEXT
Holi day
QPECIAL concessions have brought Pacific
Island tours within reach of all, sp why not
spend your next holiday amid ideal surroundings t
Excursions to SUVA—HONOLULU—RAROTONGA—PAPEETE vi a N.Z.
For full particulars apply
UNION S. S. CO., Ltd.
247 George Street,
Sydney.
and Union Lines
59 William Street,
Melbourne.
Bridge Street to Bloomsbury within 28 days!
SYDNEY via AMERICA to ENGLAND
ŵ
"MARIPOSA" &
"MONTEREY
New ! Luxurious ! Famous /
ENGLAND! The end of a glamorous, swiftly-covered trail, crowded
with rich adventure! New, magnificently-equipped express liners
reach California, the gateway to America’s unnumbered wonders, 18
days after leaving Sydney. With stops at Auckland, Suva, Pago Pago
and Honolulu, a voyage of rare experiences, imperishable memories,
and luxurious comfort is assured.
On Matson-Oceanic ships the luxuries of land become sea-minded!
The choicest foods—served in a dining salon of distinguished beauty,
always kept comfortable by air-conditioning! Ever-at-your-elbow
service. Music, dancing, and diversions making gay the short spans
between ports of call!
FARES TO ENGLAND
ẁ
First Class
Cabin Class
From Sydney—
( Single) from £lO5/10/- ( single ) from £B3/-/-
( Return ) from £194/10/- ( return ) from £ 152/—/
From Melbourne —-
(Single) from £lO7/10/- (single) from £B4/10/-
(Return) from £l9B/10/- (return) from £155/10/-
Fares subject to Exchange.
IMPORTANT
Special reduced seasonal fares to America in
effect during January and February.
No more fortunate blend of ships, destination and
low fares ever occurred. A voyage that winds
through the enchantment of new Zealand, fiji,
Samoa, Hawaii to America, where scenes, strange
as they are entrancing and episodes exciting as
they are new, meet you every hour.
Ocean days aboard the regal liners, “mariposa”
and “monterey” rival land days, in their absorb-
ing charm. These low seasonal fares in effect for
a very limited period urge that you book now!
SYDNEY TO
Los Angeles or San Francisco
ROUND TRIP FROM SYDNEY.
First Class from £99/-/- Cabin Class from £7O/-/-
ROUND TRIP FROM MELBOURNE.
First Class from £lO3/-/- Cabin Class from £74/-/-
Fares not subject to Exchange.
SOUTH SEAS!
A vacation-land unsurpassed in romantic attrac-
tion! Moderate fares and faster time make these
enchanted isles a convenient destination!
MINIMUM FARES FROM SYDNEY to
First Class Cabin Class
Single Return Single Return
SUVA, Fiji £35/0/-
PAGO PAGO, Samoa £33/5/- £65/0/- £24/5/- £47/10/-
HONOLULU. Hawaii £75/0/- £55/0/-
MINIMUM FARES FROM MELBOURNE to
First Class Cabin Class
Single Return Single Return
SUVA, Fiji £39/0/-
PAGO PAGO, Samoa, £35/5/- £69/0/- £26/5/- £5l/10/-
HONOLULU. Hawaii £79/0/- £59/10/-
Fares not subject to Exchange.
Next Sailings to America via New Zealand, Fiji,
Samoa, Hawaii
Sydney Monterey . Feb. II
Melbourne Monterey Feb. 7
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, SYDNEY. 'Phone: B 7981-3
AGENTS: DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED
341 Collins Street and 461 Bourlce Street, MELBOURNE
'Phone: Central 288 (5 lines)
IM-2A
The Illusionist.
BY C. G. CROSBIE.
DID he understand me correctly? Did
I mean to say that I had never heard
of the Caronis?
Under his look—incredulous, startled,
hurt, severe—l retracted hastily. t “The
Caronis!.... Oh, the Caronis? Why, of
course ! How stupid of me ! Didn’t catch
the name at first. Of course I knew them
well.”
Mollified, he graciously forgave my
momentary lapse and chimed in with me. Of
course, everyone knew the Caronis. The
Illusionists. Brisbane, Sydney, Adelaide, New
Zealand. Household words, one might say.
They hadn’t done too well in Melbourne.
Of course, things were a bit slack at pres-
ent. Same everywhere. Everyone felt it.
And they had had a most astonishing run
of bad luck. But it was only temporary.
Oh, undoubtedly!
He was sorry to hear things were bad
with me, too. We pooled resources. To-
gether we made up one-and-three.
It was raining outside. There was no-
where else to go. Nothing else to do. We
sat at a little table in the corner, feeling
grateful it was only three o’clock.
He brought out a rubber band, twisted
it round two fingers, made an airy, graceful
gesture, and, inexplicably, it was round an-
other two.
That, he said, was a mere nothing. He
practised a good deal; mostly at the club —
a little place they had round in Delauny-
street. He liked to practise there. Profes-
sional criticism. The only criticism worth
anything. As for the public, the people out
in front....
Shaking his head he agitated his open
hand away from him. “No good; no good
at all!”
He brought out some small gear—bands,
matchboxes, cards —and smoothly put them
through their paces. At his touch these
inert objects became alert and nimble. They
sprang here and there, popped suddenly out
of nowhere and disappeared again mysteri-
ously and tracelessly.
It was intriguing and a bit irritating, but
distinctly clever. I applauded whole-
heartedly.
Urbane and dignified he deprecated praise.
This was nothing; nothing. I should see
their act. Now, that ....
From an inner pocket he brought a leather
wallet —the sort designed to hold banknotes.
It was filled with creased letters and dog-
eared press-cuttings.
He carefully spread some letters on the
table before me. His /hands, so deft and
steady a few minutes before, now that his
mind was off them were trembling a little.
Making plenty of room he placed three
letters side by side. They were from a well-
known manager, engaging him, re-engaging
him. Authentic, definite and very business-
like. So many performances, so much per
week, etc., etc. He drew a shaky thumb-
nail under the amounts —£55, £63, £72 —
and looked at me triumphantly.
Refolding the letters delicately (they were
dark and soft along the creases) he re-
peated that —temporarily, of course —
times were bad.
He was scrupulously neat, but very, very
shabby. His clothes were full of frayed
edges that had been carefully trimmed a
great many times. Color and pattern both
had been washed from his shirt, but his
patched boots were brilliantly polished and.
his hair, long and beautifully smoothed back,
presented a sleek, jet surface to the world,
save where one chink let the grey beneath
peep through.
His manner alone was unimpaired. Suave,
poised, condescending, he still had the full,
fruity, “guinea-and-a-half” tone to perfection.
His breast-pocket was a mine of old
papers, yellowing, carefully folded, dropping
to bits along the folds.
He gingerly spread out old handbills to
show me “The Caronis” printed in heavy
black letters twice the size of those used
for any of the other names. Above, in
smaller type, I read: “Claud —Ernie —
Alfredo.”
He was Alfredo. Ernie was the boy, the
third generation, named after old Ernie, the
original Caroni, who had mystified diggers
in a tent in Ballarat and reaped a harvest
of nuggets. “He had one of them mounted
for a tiepin,” said Alfredo. “We had it
for quite a while.”
He and Claud had trained the boy from
babyhood. Built up a great act with him.
“The smartest of us all!”
His eyes for a moment went blank. He
was somewhere far 'away. Suddenly, quietly,
he was back again and went on.
They had done well up north. As soon
as they moved south' everything went wrong.
They walked out on one manager who
wanted to cut both salary and act in two.
After that they were out for a long time.
Got on again at last. Glad to take any-
thing. Hardly started when there was a
fire and all their gear went. No insurance;
they had had to let that lapse.
It was a blow and no mistake, and rather
downed them.
“Temporarily,” amended Alfredo
“Everyone has these reverses,” he con
ceded, after the pause, regally reasonable.
The story seemed to peter out. He was
watching the come-and-go through the swing
doors. Suddenly he excused himself and
went off. I sat staring at the cards and
rubber bands.
But in a few minutes I became aware that
he was beckoning me with finger and eye-
brow. He had a prosperous-looking fellow
in tow. 1
“What was your name again? I didn’t
quite catch.... Oh yes! Meet my friend
Bert So-and-so.”
“Any friend of yours, Alf”. ...
Bows and handclasps all round.
Bert suggested drinks. Alfredo, behind
his hand, delicately intimated to him that
we were —temporarily, of course —just a
bit. ...
“Have a couple with me.”
Contact with Bert’s prosperity brightened i
us immensely. Talk became genei'al and
cheerful, and the Caronis, re-arising in their
old magnificence, touched all the high spots
of their career once more.
But, being prosperous, Bert had some-
where else to go, something else to do; and,
after he had left, the fleeting cheer evapor-
ated.
Alfredo again took up his story.
A real run of bad luck! It was, of course,
only temporary, but they had had some
nasty knocks.
Out for such a long time. Then all their
gear burned; a total loss. And then Ernie
had been killed. Quite simply. Just an
ordinary everyday accident. No help for
it. No one in particular to blame.
Alfredo brought out the old wallet again
and from its inmost compartment drew a
pinch of small clippings. They ranged from
half-an-inch of bald statement to more de-
tailed and sympathetic accounts that ran
to nearly three inches.
What was there to say? Alfredo' did not
seem to expect anything. With furrowed
brow and a slight, sad, backward jerk of
the head he replaced the clippings carefully.
Claud was bearing up under it very well.
Better than he expected. He was to see
Claud at the hospital to-night. Seven to
eight. He was to have his operation in a
day or two. A growth. He —Alfredo—
couldn’t believe it to be malignant. Doctors
sometimes made mistakes. But it should
have' been attended to sooner; he agreed with
them there.
So now he was —temporarily, of course —
on his own. When Claud was well again
they’d get some gear together and make
another start.
“In the meantime I do what I can. A
little for the unemployed. And occasionally
I have a private engagement,”
Instinctively the suave dignity,, the
and-a-half tone returned.
But only for a flash. It was pouring out-
side, and the steady unrelenting sound and
the chilly greyness of the overcast, declin-
ing day penetrated everywhere. The hands
of the clock were setting off inexorably for
six, and our spirits went down, down with
them as they moved.
In the last half-hour of our stay in haven
we became old friends. Lowering his voice
he confided to me that he would be glad
when Claud was about again. He didn’t
like working alone and —it was an astonish-
ing thing!—ill-luck seemed to dog him. No-
thing but accidents ! He couldn’t understand
it. knew such a run of them before.
He gave a short, mortified laugh and lean-
ing towards me said, “Look!” Drawing
out his lower lip with shaking fingers he
showed me the inside of his mouth—all
blistered.
He had gone to do a little fire-eating;
simple thing; done it dozens, hundreds, of
times before, and now—this happened!
He wiped his lips with an old handker-
chief, and above the rag his eyes hung on
mine bewildered and questioning.
The doors closed behind us. We got to
the shelter of the nearest verandah and
halted there. Once under cover there was
no hurry. The hospital was scarcely ten
minutes’ walk away, and he couldn’t get in
there till seven.
We drifted gradually in that direction,
moving from verandah to verandah. There
was nowhere else to go, nothing else to do.
The empty streets looked sharp and glassy.
Storm-curtained cars went by with a .slur-
ring, swishing sound.
We came at last to a doorway opposite
the hospital. It was dry and sheltered from
the wind; quite comfortable. While we
waited he told me that he didn’t go back to
his lodgings in the daytime if he could
avoid it; didn’t unnecessarily obtrude him-
self on the landlady’s notice. Not that she
worried him much. Oh no ! On the whole
she’d been very decent.
“But, of course, poor woman, she’s wor-
ried herself,” he explained. “Creditors after
her, too; and that makes her a bit sharp
at times. But, on the whole, she’s been very
decent. Very decent, indeed.”
Bells boomed the hour. A girl in a rain-
coat, her hands full of flowers, went up the
steps to the hospital door.
In the west, over Spencer-street and the
railway yards, the clouds rifted a little, and
a gleam of almost level light came through,
kindling the drenched streets and wet walls
to bleak brilliance and turning the abating
rain to drizzling crystal.
The lights in the hospital flashed on. and
the big building, thus for a moment doubly
lighted, looked too radiant; as gaudily un-
real as a stage setting.
Moving towards the kerb he urged me to.
look him up a t the club soon. They wouldn’t
be. here long. When Claud was about again
they’d go back north.
“Back to warmth and prosperity,” he
threw over his shoulder, his back straighten-
ing at the thought.
. A small crowd was straggling up the hos-
pital steps; each individual in turn momen-
tarily silhouetted at the top on the pale
oblong of the lighted doorway.
For an instant I saw Alfredo there, a
slight shape, dignified and alone. Then a
vast, dark figure, like Fate, unhurried, over-
whelming, rose behind him and blotted him
out.
Sleepless Nights.
Gl ™ me a garden of poppy petals,
Where the bee is the only busy thing,
where Time halts to yawn at the drowsy
threshold.
And Life drifts by on an idle wing;
\ here the blue moth lights on a rose’s
crimson,
iT7?, alf7dazed to drink from CU P so fair;
With a song unsung on a theme forgotten
A bird hangs poised in the dreaming air.
Under the tent of the crinkled petals,
| . c ?ol grey silence, I long to creep ;
.At the silken swing of the poppy curtain,
lo lie all night in a cave of sleep.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


-5= -5-1
■■I
Ip.', M
lifllii
ill
#
mm
i3»8i
as m '■
Si iaiS a:
Hi
■US
rn! i r I'j"*
-
ill
I?
te -
i!lL ..
, ' 7-
'
■■I
—
XiS
83! ii
111
a 8333
iilii
a
II
Hjn!
tl
ffflli
1 ■
C* I;
• <W 6‘ ** |
O'SlilkJ
J
Scots CO Klshy
lit
lisp
iiSflPiffl
mm,
' U:r
m 1
{»i»o/>
liHiii®!!
in
■i
i
in
m
mi
■
islil
—8
■
m
iiiM
, ' : i
ini
m
S«Rf
mm
BB
; T'::
■
■ V v - " k-5!
Si
■■ U
Sit
1*1S»111
■S , r W! ! i. ! M:!§ ?
■■■■■■
hB
TOilMIlf!
ifti'ln
Ml
1 E
■
ffil'Sifin
i i
tfij
■I
:■ iji
.
' : .
BH
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered "The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, S months from
for which 1 enclose £
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
O'
0
0
Jtr
0°
1)
e
S®,
,1 ($ e
* ,•••
. • \
. * JA.' 1 nIVV’
a,
c^e'? 0 ' $T
. • • ‘ -


DRINK BEER
IV:
\ <-*
\
ifi
OTn
m
ẃ
The only way to get the full advantage
of your food is to eat regularly.
Enjoy your liquor in the same sensible
way. A glass of beer .. . lager, ale or
stout, whichever you prefer ... enjoyed
regularly will ensure the greatest possible
benefit from the body-building properties
it contains.
Malt is the foundation of all beers. It is
exceptionally rich in the elements which
nourish and sustain the body, and give
necessary warmth to the blood.
Good nourishing Beer is the most palatable
and inexpensive form of malt. Its regular
enjoyment is the secret of robust health.
Take home a bottle or two to-night.
DRINK
ẅ
w
REGULARLY
its good for you /
BREWED UNDER PERFECT HYGIENIC CONDITIONS IN YOUR OWN STATE
TOOTH’S TOOHEYS RESCH’S
