

BATTER 1
distributors:
AUSTRALIA:
New South Wales Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Leichhardt.
Victoria Rhodes Motor Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
Queensland .... Vesta Battery Co. (Aust.), Ltd., Brisbane.
South Australia . Motors, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmania W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston.
NEW ZEALAND:
Wellington . . Vesta Battery Co. of N.Z., Ltd.
Auckland . . . Hope Hickman, Ltd.
Christchurch . Seymour & Turnbull.
Dunedin .... Graham’s Battery Service.
New Plymouth Newton King, Ltd.
Gisborne .... H. S. Motors, Ltd.
Napier Napier Battery Co.
Hastings .... C. Torr.
Timaru Canterbury Farmers Co-op.
Whangarei . . . Snow Bros.
PACIFIC ISLANDS AND THE EAST:
Malaya Philippine Islands Getz Bros. Inc. (Singapore).
Hong Kong and Southern China . . Harry Wicking & Co. (Hong Kong).
New Guinea, Papua, Samoa Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.
Dutch East Indies (Java, Sumatra, Celebes Is.) Messrs. Sun Lioueng (Batavia).
Fiji Islands Marlows, Ltd., Suva. Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd., Suva.
New Caledonia Maison Barrau.
'
VI 43.
VESTA BATTERIES are manufactured by VESTA
Australia.
The Bulletin
A Holiday Issue.
Vol. 54.-No. 2811.
Wednesday, December 27, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


72-page Xmas Catalogue is now
ready, and will be posted free to any
address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
THE BLOCK, 424-426 George Street,
SYDNEY.
mu
LiUiiJS
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
3 ly Name
My Address
S.B. 233
Sensitive Skins
Need a Pure, Mild Soap
For daily use. Delightfully fra-
grant, Cutieura Soap may be
freely used for the sensitive skins
of adults as well as children. It
yields a lather which has ideal
cleansing properties, yet is sooth-
ing and emollient. Cutieura
Ointment, pure and soothing,
heals rashes, pimples, and allays
irritation.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N.S.W.
“THE AGE”
Established. 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age’’ has exerted an influence In the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser look-
ing for the best. INVESTMENT for his adver-
tising expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
110,117.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.»
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.,
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
SONG POEMS WANTED
Songs and musical compositions also con-
sidered for publication. Send MSS. PETER
DEREK, LTD.. Dept. 5.8., 108 Charing
Cross Road, LONDON, WC.2. ENGLAND.
\£j&&SUSAy&ciC&s6 ,
TuUute Science ,
w \s&n£ S&xiej, s&je,
S Se\£&n ?urCi4, /*&&*s foX
■CAc Vfrusrtp
TheAUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES ©5
v.— .m
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street,
Sydney; or 493-95 Coffins Street, Melbourne.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation tHat
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want them in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic stress he continues to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
the Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagli Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
I She • • •
Golden
—West
says Good-bye to a
Prosperous Year.
That Your New Year
Be Just As Prosperous
Is the Wish of the Perth
Sydney Representative:
Hal Johnstone, Wingello House.
Melbourne Representative:
Mervyn Allan, 271 Collins Street.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,n
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: P. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
[£ any illustration in “THE BULLETIN 5 ’ takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
The paper that should be in every home where there is a wireless.
It gives the week’s advance programmes; devotes sections to the
music, plays and talks of the coming week; tells you things you don’t
know about radio personalities you do know; and contains the most
up-to-date and reliable short-wave and technical information.
PUBLISHED EVERY FRIDAY.
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
Technique
Flaubert remarked shortly after be-
ginning “Madame Bovary,” “This will be
Paul de Kock if I don’t get it right.” In
other words, “It’s all in the telling.”
It is absurd for Australians to say that
local novels don’t interest overseas readers
because “no one wants to read about the
bush.” The most commonplace story set
in the dullest environment may become a
masterpiece in the right hands, and a
good plot with a picturesque background
will be of no avail if the writer doesn’t
know his job. Here are two books which
demonstrate an aesfnetic truism that can't
be stressed too often. The first retells
one of _ the world’s stalest stories, and
makes it enthralling; the other tells, if
not a new story, at any rate one with all
kinds of novel facets and some unusual
people ; yet it fails. It is “Paul de*Kock.”
Superfluities are left in and essentials are
left out. It lacks that mysterious quality
which the artist achieves almost uncon-
sciously, and which others can never hope
to achieve.
Serbia: 1903-1914
Margaret Goldsmith, the translator of
Bruno Brehm’s “Apis und Este,” has given
it a somewhat movified title —They Call
It Patriotism (Geoffrey Bles; Bs. 6d.).
It is Belgrade in June thirty years ago.
The head of the “Black Hand,” “Apis”
(Captain Dragutin Dimitrijevic, of the
General Staff), is giving his followers their
final instructions. “First group: bed-
room, no mercy. Second group: arrest
orderlies.” And so on.
Suddenly a grey-haired captain begins to sob
wildly. He is wearing decorations of the Turk-
ish and the Bulgarian wars. His sobs cut
through the paralysing silence.
In this atmosphere of emotionalism the
conspirators leave for the palace. “Apis”
is intercepted by his friend Captain Milj-
kovic, a loyalist. “Don’t die for nothing,
Jovo ; they aren’t worth it, Jovo,” im-
plores “Apis.” But Miljkovic has his
principles, and falls with a bullet in his
head. For a time the frantic searchers
fear they have been outwitted.
In a small, dark closet two human beings are
huddled together. Their bodies are cold from
perspiration, their teeth are chattering, and
their tongues, lying limply in their mouths, are
dry and heavy from unspeakable horror....
“Sascha, they have gone,” the Queen says
softly, pressing her finger-nails against the palms
of the King’s hand. The King wants to say
something, but he is unable to speak. The
Queen strokes his face with trembling fingers.
“They have gone, Sascha; they’ve gone away.”
Then comes the betrayal by the craven
General Petrovic. The fugitives are
dragged out, butchered and thrown into
the garden. The bodies reach a couple
of civilian doctors who observe cynically
that they are never likely to perform an-
other autopsy on a billiard-table, or on a
king and queen, or on bodies which have
been so mutilated —and then they get to
work. A masterly irrelevancy.
The scene shifts to Salzburg in 1912,
and Francis Ferdinand enters the pic-
ture ; to Belgrade in the spring of 1914 ;
to Vienna in the summer; to Sarajevo.
The complete devotion of Ferdinand and
his duchess to each other, and to their
children, is emphasised. It is the eve of
June 28. The royal pair talk of their
fourteen years of married life.
He steps over to her and kisses her forehead.
“What would life be without you?”
He dips the index finger and the thumb of
his right hand into a little bowl of holy water
under a crucifix.
“A little cross for you,” he says, making the
sign of the cross on her forehead, “and a
little cross for all three children.”
The charming and friendly ways of the
Duchess and the Archduke’s integrity
and honest desire to give the Jugoslavs
a form of Home Rule add to the horror
of the tragedy which is approaching so
inevitably; yet such is Brehm’s objec-
tivity that, though he makes the reader
sympathise with the victims, he never
allows the point of view of the assas-
sins to be lost sight of. The real hero, if
there is one, is “Apis.” Or it may be
the wretched Princip, or one of the other
lads who offered their lives so readily
for an idea.
“Unfortunates”
Paris is the set-
ting of Edward
Kno block’s The
Love Lady
(Chapman and
Hall; 7s. 6d.'>.
Thea is the mistress of Brookbank,
an elderly American. She is faithful
in face of certain temptations, and
when the slump comes and he needs
75,000 dollars she is ready to sacrifice
her emerald necklace. But the necklace
turns out to have been stolen. In the end
Brookbank poisons himself in her studio.
The body is got rid of, to save scandal,
by Lacombe, a prospective Prime Minis-
ter and Brookbank’s rival for Thea.
Lacombe is the complete French realist,
logical and unsentimental as a mathe-
matical problem. He is enchanted to
hear of his old friend’s death. “Take me
to the corpse these minutes,” he orders
eagerly. Thea hasn’t the courage to look
at the twisted body.
“Aha, mon vieux,” she heard Lacombe
address it in his heartiest manner. “Tes done
creve, eh?” And he gave another goat-like
snigger.
In the car on the way to Brookbank’s
home Lacombe sits between Thea and
the corpse. Never, he tells her, has he
had such an amusing experience.
“Amusing!”
“Well, you must confess,” he said with a
twinkle as he pointed with his elbow to the
body, “a man what must sit and watch the
embracement of his maitresse without saying
a word —it is comique, very, very comique.”
And with that he flung his other arm about
her and drew her passionately towards him.
The story is credible in nearly every
detail. Kept women have Thea’s fantas-
tic experiences in every country ; it is
part of the game. Mr. Knoblock ob-
viously writes from life, and he has such
a wealth of experience to draw on that
he can afford to throw away situations
which would be godsends to other
writers. For example, he doesn’t bother
to reveal what happened to Thea’s friend
who took up with a dangerous criminal
under the delusion that he was a sweet
boy-gigolo. Yet this is a disappointing
novel. The facts about its odd people
and places are ineffectively stated; and
it lacks style, which means as much
to a writer as tact does in social
intercourse.
RED PAGE.
A Hymn of Hate
T. O’Conroy, author of The Menace
of Japan (Hurst and Blackett; Hill of
Content Bookshop, Melbourne ; 14s. 6d.),
is an Irishman. Some Irishmen hate the
English, and some hate one another ;
this Irishman is unusual, inasmuch as he
hates the Japanese.
After a varied career in Turkey,
Russia, and other parts of the world,
he went to Japan intending to stay 18
months. He stayed 15 years, married,
after opposition, a member of an aristo-
cratic family, and returned to England
this year to publish his book. As soon
as his book appeared his wife, who had
remained in Japan, is alleged to have
disappeared, and his inquiries have
elicited no reply either from private per-
sons or the Government.
His reasons for loathing the Japanese
are various. He thinks them the most
stupid, brutal and immorgl race on earth.
Neo-Shinto, the State religion, is not a
religion at all. It teaches that the
Yamato race is descended from the gods
and that therefore every Japanese, down
to the lowest coolie, is divine. Being
divine, they can do no wrong. Hence
personal and national arrogance.
Corruption, he says, is universal, and
there are numerous blackmailing news-
papers whose agents wait in queues on
the doorstep of every business man.
There are model prisons for the edifi-
cation of foreign visitors, but the real
penal system is worse than that of the
ancient Malay sultanates. There are
water cells in which the prisoner stands in
water a foot deep until he lies down and
drowns ; crowding cells where 200 or 300
internees are crammed without light, air
or room to sit down.
Although Japanese delegates, speak
soothing words at the International Labor
Bureau at Geneva, there are actually no
legal trade-unions in Japan—only illegal
and temporary associations of workers
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“THE SENIOR STORE”
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— Consistency from day to day.
FOR ADDED STATION EFFICIENCY
YOU NEED THESE QUALITY IMPLEMENTS FROM
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
“CHALLENGE”
Steel Towers
“Challenge” Four-post Steel Towers
are made in 1 Oft. sections with girths
sft. apart, in all heights up to 40ft.,
which makes it convenient to build up
from the ground, one section at a time,
in places where trees or buildings
prevent or make difficult to put
together on the ground and erect in the
usual way. Spread of Towers is as
follows: 20ft. x 4ft. 3in.; 30ft. x 6ft.
2in.; 40ft. x Bft. These Towers are
rustproof and do not require painting.
Height, 20ft. Special Price .... £l5
Height, 30ft. Special Price .... £2O
Height, 30ft. Special Price .... £27
Height, 40ft. Special Price .... £27
semi-steel gears
BUN I
COLO SOILED
STEEL GUIDE
BOOS
SEMI-STEEL
PITMANS
BR
A brake A rod positive steel
/ SPIRAL WIRE AUTO BAND BRAKE
/CARRIES OIL TO /nrvT UIID
POT HUB SPIDER
WHEELSETS OVER
OUTER BEARING
FRONT BEARING
COLD ROLLED
STEEL SHAFT
wm
\
On DRAIN plug
USE ONCE A YEAR
eAIL BEARING CHAIR'
IU»NS EASILY TO
r TIMKEN OR BABBITT
BEARING
SEMI-STEEL PINIONS
. OIL RESERVOIR
' CCARS RUN IN Oil
“CHALLENGE” WINDMILLS
Timken Roller Bearings
The lightest-running, simplest and most durable Windmill on the market.
The Roller Bearings never need adjustment or any attention whatever,
they run smoothly and easily, and allow the wheel to revolve with less
force of wind than many other makes. .
The main casting of the Mill forms the oil reservoir, inside of which is
built the mechanism, making it self-oiling; the oil supply only needs
replenishing once a year. All gears run in oil, and carry oil to the
pinions and bearings. . ,
Two gears and pinions with differential action ensure equalisation o
load; they are made of semi-steel—2s per cent, stronger than cast
iron—are silent in operation, strong and sturdy. The shafts are made
of best grade high carbon cold-rolled steel, which will not wear or cut
out. The sails are beaded on the outer edge to stiffen them and stop
vibration, and are set at the correct angle to obtain the maximum of
power and greatest efficiency.
Specifications
No. 2 MILL, 8 FEET—Back geared 3 to 1. Gross weight, 5851 b.; net
weight, 4601 b. Has 6in. stroke, six arms, six sections and eighteen fans.
Develops 3/10 horsepower in 15-mile wind, and is the
Standard Farm Mill for wells 35 to 100 feet deep.
Special Price
No. 3 MILL, 10 FEET Back Geared 3 to 1. Gross weight, 6601 b.;
net weight, 4851 b. Regular crank gives 6in. stroke. Mill has six arms,
six sections and twenty-four fans. Develops 3/5 horsepower in 15-mile
wind, and is our heavy-duty Farm Mill for Wells 76 to 150
feet deep. *£- 2S
Special Price
No. 4 MILL, 12 FEET Back geared 3 to 1. Has 7in. x 1 Oin. stroke,
eight arms, eight sections and sixteen fans. Develops li horsepower
in 15-mile wind. Adapted for deep wells and irrigation. £CQ
Special Price
Prices do not include Towers.
i
-T"
i
WV
THE “SAMSON” PUMPING OUTFIT
Direct Coupled
A complete self-contained Pumping Plant, for pumping
from a river, dam or well where the water is within
suction limit.
The Engine is direct-connected to Samson Low-down
Power Pumps, and mounted on steel base, forming a
complete pumping unit—light, compact and strong.
The Engine will run for 12 hours on one gallon of
petrol.
The Pumps have bronze valves on bronze seats, solid
bronze piston rods, brass-lined cylinders.
All parts are interchangeable, and the owner of a
“Samson” Pumper can always rely upon replacing a
worn part with a new one that fits perfectly.
Size of Pump
No.
323
324
325
Diam.
Cyl.
3in.
4in.
sin.
Stroke
sin.
5 in.
5 in.
Approx.
Delivery
500 gals.
900 gals.
1400 gals.
Total
Head
200 ft.
120 ft.
50ft.
Size of Pipe
Suction
1 Jin.
1 Jin.
2in.
Delivery
1 Jin.
1 Jin.
2 in.
Gross
Weight
5451 b.
5601 b.
5901 b.
Shipping
Measurement
29ft.
29ft.
29ft.
Price
£4B
£ 49/15/-
£52
I
ALL BRASS WINDMILL PUMPS
All Brass Cylinder Windmill Pump, side-bolted improved valve. Has
heavy rod, hard tube brass barrel.
Screw for
Size of Barrel
2in.
2Jin.
3 in.
3-Jin.
4in.
pipe
1 Jin.
1 Jin.
1J or 2in
2 in.
2in.
Length of Stroke
1 2in.
Price
42/-
44/6
52/6
73/6
84/-
All Brass Bore Cylinders. Exactly the same sizes, prices, etc., as
above.
SIDE DELIVERY PUMPS
All Brass Side Delivery Windmill Pump. An improved windmill
pump with side delivery. Accessibility is a feature. The plunger
may be withdrawn by removing the top cover. An inspection cover
is provided at bottom of valve. Fitted with stuffing box.
Inside Diameter Cylinder 2in., 2Jin., 3in., 3Jin., 4in.
Stroke Length 12in., 1 2in., 12in., 12in., 12in.
Inside Dia., Sue. and Del 1 Jin., IJin., 1 Jin., 2in., 2in.
Prices 71/- 73/6 89/6 136/6 157/6
This Handy
Pump, only
32/-
Douglas Pattern Lifting
Pumps. A useful pump for
farm and domestic pur-
poses. Strong and well
finished.
Sizes, Nos. 3 4 6
Size of pipe I i 1 i 2in.
Prices 32/- 36/- 59/-
f
MYERS’
SELF-OILING PUMPS
FOR A LONG TROUBLE-FREE SERVICE
OF UNCEASING PUMPING.
Fitted with 3x4 inc]
with vacuum chamber,
charge, 14 x 2\ inch
fin. brass piston rod.
per hour.
Price
Farming Implements and Machinery, Fourth Floor.
Brass-lined Cylinder,
lfin. suction and dis-
ast and loose pulleys,
Capacity, 1000 gallons
£34/10/-
FORCE PUMP
Cascade Double-acting Force Tank
Pump. Cylinder of polished iron,
with poppet valves, which hold the
water. All valves, being under the
hood, are easy to get at. The
suction and discharge are threaded
for 2in. pipe,
per hour.
Capacity, 2000 gals.
£5
COG
GEAR
m
S'" •*
Hindes’ Patent
Hole Diggers
Hindes’ Patent Hole
Digger (or Borers). A
wonderful investment
for the man on the land
whose aim it is to save
time, labour and ex-
pense.
6in. 9in. l(Hin.
19/- 22/9 28/6
Freight not paid on these goods.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LTD.
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Christmas Time
IS
Holiday Time
and
Holiday Time
is the
Time to Read
an
Endeavour Press Book!
m
v
V
“JONAH”
Price 6s. By LOUIS STONE. Posted 3d. extra.
“JONAH” is considered to be a worthy successor to “Robbery Under Arms”
and “For the Term of His Natural Life” amongst books which can properly
be described as “Australian Classics.” It will surprise those who now read
it for the first time by its masterly treatment of a phase of Australian life
which has almost vanished.
Sydney Morning Herald: “it would be difficult to recall any work of
fiction that conveys a stronger impression than ‘Jonah’ of the city streets,
the Harbor, and the dwellers in Sydney’s poorer quarters.”
The Wellington Dominion: “Jonah’s dramatic business career makes
good reading.”
Melbourne Herald: ... .“one of the few Australian novels that really
matter.”
Brisbane Courier:... .“Mr. John Galsworthy wrote, ‘l’ve lapped up your
novel, which I think extraordinarily actual, vivid and good.’ ”
Smith’s Weekly: ... .“Louis Stone’s book is destined to become an Aus-
tralian Classic.”
“IN PURSUIT OF PATRICK”
Price 6s. By VERA DWYER. Posted 3d. extra.
The story is of a girl who, in a moment of pique, dismisses her sweetheart.
Then, learning of his departure for Australia on a film enterprise, she
suddenly decides to go after him. On her arrival in Sydney, she is told
that he has gone “on location” to Fiji. Her impetuosity takes her to the
romantic South Sea Islands. She travels on a “holiday cruise” steamer,
and on board meets a typical pastoralist’s daughter and some girls from
the cities, who provide her with some interesting musings.
The Brisbane Telegraph: ... .“the book should do much to enhance the
reputation Miss Dwyer already has won with her juvenile stories and travel
books.”
Woman’s Budget: “it is a compact and soundly written novel, and its
appeal to most women should be immediate.”
Country Life: “containing all the qualities of romantic light comedy
with the interest of a travel story.”
Melbourne Herald: ... .“a pleasant, brightly written romance.”
Daily Telegraph (Sydney): “the author evidently knows Fiji, and her
descriptions of life there are amazingly good. She gives a color to the
flavor of Island life.”
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT”
by A. B. (“Banjo”) Paterson.
Illustrated by Norman Lindsay.
Price 2/6 (postage 2d.).
“IN THE
WAKE OF THE
by Charles Chauvel.
Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
BOUNTY”
“NIGHTS ASHORE”
by Captain Jack Hamilton.
Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
“SATURDEE”
by Norman Lindsay.
Price 6/- (postage 3d.).
Endeavour Press books can be purchased at all Bookshops,
Newsagents and Bookstalls. If unobtainable, send postal
note, including postage, to
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS,
Bulletin Buildings, George Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Read Endeavour Press Boofys!
• Pair of tan Oxfords over
4years old. Apart from wear-
ing creases, tbe uppers are as
sound as the day they were bought
—thanks to regular cleaning with
Kiwi. Owner, V. f., St. Kilda.
• Kiwi makes a good shoe last,
• and gives a good shine to boot
BLACK
polTsh 1
KIWI
The Quality Boot Polish
TAN
POLISH
H7OIM
©
Marks the important points
requiring ALEMITE LUBRI-
CATION: Wheel hearing,
water pump, cylinders, gear
box, clutch release bearing,
universal joints, chassis and
differential. "ALEMITE” is
the assurance of protection.
"ALEMITE”
these
parts
LEMITE"
~not J
Wheel Bearing
Particularly on cars equipped wtth
four-wheel brakes, Alemite Wheel
Bearing Lubricant is successful.
Millions of useful car-miles
are lost to motordom
yearly because of haphaz-
ard greasing instead of cor-
rect lubrication, whereas
performance, efficiency and
endurance of light and
heavy motor vehicles are
improved when the lubri-
cants und the system of
applying them are Alemite.
Alemite Corporation.
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. 1). S. A.
Cable Address; AT.MIT... Chicago
Full particulars from MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH,
Resident Manager, 554 George Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following representatives:
BENNETT & WOOD, Ltd., 284 Pitt Street Sydney
MOTOR SUPPLIES ATKINS (wK Hay St., PertH
E. A. MACHIN & CO. (Pty), Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CORNELL LIMITED, 122 Pirie Street, Adelaide K-Aust—B-33
SPARE THE LUBRICANT —' SPOIL THE MOTOR
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The Jvlacleod Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street).
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free


Mr Can't: ‘lf only 1 could forget
my digestion ’
H
Mr Can: ‘lf only you would
remember your Enol’
%
Nearly everyone who suffers from dyspepsia,
heartburn, poor appetite or similar complaints —
would benefit from taking Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ first
thing every morning. Eno is particularly good for
such digestive ailments. Its gentle laxative
action sets the system functioning properly and
punctually. By freeing congestion and keeping
you clean inside —it prevents that self-poisoning
which is the cause of so many ills. Eno contains
nothing harsh or harmful. It can, and should, be
taken by old and young alike. Forget your diges-
tion— enjoy your food—get a bottle of Eno to-day!
_,. . . , t ip/'c rrvntflins 8 ozs * MEDIUM, contains 4 ozs. Eno,
this insist on Eno.
A..
Enos Fruit Salt
The words Eno and “Fruit Salt” are registered trade marks
Sales Agents : The British Harold F. Ritchie Co. Ltd., Sydney, N.S.W.
which are put down ruthlessly when
discovered. .
Japan’s immediate aims are the con-
quest of China, Mongolia, Siberia, Mam,
British Malaya, the Dutch East Indies
and Australia; its eventual aim is tne
subjugation of the world. These
tions. are frankly expressed by tne
highest authorities and firmly held by
everyone, and, except for a mere hand-
ful, there is nobody capable of question-
ing their practicability. So Mr. O Comoy
asserts
Mr O’Conroy uses black with a
lavish and skilful hand, but there is an
absence of white which is disquieting.
In much of what he says about Japan, the
names of Germany and other countries
nearer home could be substituted and
nobody would notice the change.
Summed up, his indictment amounts to
the statement that a wave of insensate
nationalism is sweeping over the country.
A similar wave is sweeping over other
countries, and its invariable effect is to
throw up propagandists of lunacy who
bellow the aspirations and challenges
which Mr. O’Conroy finds disquieting.
The rest of the population—say, 99 per
cent. —goes on working in bored silence.
MORIMOTO.
Oh, Viliam, Viliam!
It is lucky for the world that R. B.
Cunninghame Graham loves scoundrels
and has a taste for torture which in any-
body less cultivated in mind would be
sadistic. Otherwise, biographies like
that of Francisco Lopez, Dictator or
Paraguay, never would be written. Mr.
Graham in his Portrait of a Dictator
(Heinemann; Bs. 6d.) limns the villain
in graceful prose with adequate docu-
mentation of his narrative and a nice
sense of how to convey the limit ot
horror without wallowing in adjectives.
At the same time, he writes with a sort
of gay detachment which allows him to
do full justice to the good qualities ot
an almost unbelievably bad man.
Lopez belonged in reality to the days
of King John or Assur-banipal. He had
no newfangled inhibitions about cruelty
or vice. He had been brought up in a
palace atmosphere where both flourished.
His father and predecessor in the Presi-
dency of Paraguay had “found the
Treasury full as the result of accumu-
lated robberies and confiscations, and
“no race of men was better fitted to be
food for cannon.” They were sober,
active and well-knit, and “the mild form
of syphilis which permeated every class
did not affect their general health.
Lopez was “a gross, short man of
dark complexion who might well have
had a far-ofl strain of Indian blood.
His mother, whom he subsequently tortured,
was a member of an old Spanish family.
He rejoiced, in his youth, in a tutor who
was worthy of his talents and who did
not care or dare to check his natural im-
pulses. How they ran is shown by the
case of the beautiful Pancha Garmendia,
who refused to become one of his many
mistresses, and whom he had deprived
of her property, flogged, outraged by
soldiers, and put to the hardest labor
until her sufferings were ended by a
lance thrust. After his experience with
this lady he topped off his education
during a period when he was Minister
ambulant to the Courts of Europe, re-
turning with a new refinement in de-
bauchery and a lady of Irish origin
named Elisa Eloisa Lynch, who had been
married to a Frenchman at the age of
15. She was to supply the courage of
the Lopez menage while he, really a
coward, dreamt of military glory and
tossed his cannon fodder against the
superior armies of surrounding States.
In the end his wars so denuded the
country of fighters that not only boys
from ten years onwards, but women from
16 to 40 were conscripted. All round
were enemies.
If Paraguay has been secluded from the
world by Dr. Francia and treated as a fortress
under siege, Lopez reduced it to a dungeon,
from which no Paraguayan could escape except
by death.
The women soldiers never saw the field.
They were drafted in battalions to cut
firewood, to plough the neglected fields,
to work in the slaughterhouses.
Foreigners were despoiled and tortured.
Paraguayans were plundered and killed
with the lance if they resisted the tyrant.
As internal conditions became worse
and the fear of revolution increased, atro-
cities became greater. Lopez’s sisters were
beaten to make them confess a plot
against him; his mother, of stouter stuff,
refused to give in under 200 blows from
a corporal’s stick. Before September,
1869, with the Brazilian-Argentine-Uru-
guayan allies shutting him in, he had put
8000 suspected persons to the lance and
sabre, some after their eyelids had been
cut off and their fingers smashed with
mallets. It is an almost unbelievable
story. He eventually was killed by
Brazilian cavalry, and one of his sisters
spoke his epitaph to his battered female
parent:
Do not weep, mother ; this man was not
a brother or a son. He was a monster.
Few writers could have told this story
successfully. Mr. Cunninghame Graham
has done it. He has even succeeded in
endowing it with beauty and imparting
to it a tone which quenches resentment
in the reader.
EL VERDUGO.
Appeal to Horse Sense
“F.S.” blandly misrepresented both my
desires and expression (R.P. 6/12/’33),
but I am only interested in one of his
remarks: “If Australia were entirely
populated by intellectuals it would be a
terrible place.” Now why? Why would
it be more terrible than an Australia
entirely populated by the cricket and
football fans whom “F.S.” upholds so
hotly?
Many people—“F.S.” among them —
harbor the idea that an intellec-
tual is some kind of detrimental. It is
understandable in ways. The word brings
into their minds the discomforting vision
of a person whose brain overshadows
their own, and nobody welcomes an in-
feriority complex. But more often than
not when the intellectual is met he is
found to be quite an ordinary person,
certainly with his own turn of mind, but
reassuringly possessed of virtues and
vices like the rest of us. And why he
should be chosen for opprobrium by
people like “F.S.” I cannot understand.
My appeal was for proportion. I did
not call for a country of intellectuals,
but neither do I like to see one so full
of cricketers, footballers and other
“sports” that there is no room for intel-
lectuals, as “F.S.” calls writers, painters
and their brethren. Man is a gregarious
animal, but in his gregariousness he
wants, not, as “F.S.” says, appreciation
of himself, but acceptance of himself and
his work as a necessary and useful part
of communal life. Those of brawn are
given this satisfaction in an overwhelm-
ing degree ; those of brain in a compara-
tively trifling degree. An intellectual is
regarded rather as a freak of nature by
the “sports.” And why this state of
affairs should be more satisfactory than
one in which a “sport” is regarded as a
freak of nature by intellectuals is hard
to understand.
What we need is tolerance ; tolerance,
and a sense of proportion.
JEAN IRWIN.
The Souters
It has often seemed that in Australia
you could doom a person to become an
author simply by naming him Stephens
or thereabouts. There have been Brunton
Stephens, Bertram Stevens, A. G.
Stephens, Adrian Consett Stephen, Alex-
ander G. Steven, P. R. Stephensen—with
power to add to their number. Already
I may have spelt some of them wrong
in my bewilderment.
What of anothef name, though, even
more Scottish? What of Souter? How
many people are going to confuse D.H.,
the artist, and author of the recent “Bush
Babs,” with C.H., author of “The Mallee
Fire”? And how happy could they be
with either! “The Mallee Fire,” with
its human ballads and meditations, is
now 10 years, old, well-known —though
not nearly well enough—and due for
its successor, a new book that would col-
lect everything C. H. Souter in his fas-
tidious enthusiasm has seen fit to print.
Some of his more recent swinging ballads
remain almost complete in the mind
since their appearance on the magazine
page ; almost complete, but with inevit-
able maddening gaps that make the book
a necessity:
When old John Bax drove the Mail to Coona-
barabran,
His reins were made of rawhide, his whip
of kangaroo;
He’d four grey Walers in his old black shandry-
dan,
And we all set our watches when his coach-
horn blew!
Tan-tan-tara, boys! Here comes the Mail!
Rolling down the cleared line, sun, rain or hail!
Rocking up the main street as hard as she
can go!
When old John Bax drove the coach for Cobb
and Co.
That’s only the first verse and the
chorus. It improves as it goes on. But is
it quite right? “His whip of kangaroo”?
And was the shandrydan “black” in the
original? It’s time for that book.
As for the other Souter, you can see
his ruthless self-portrait, intended, he
says, to create a favorable impression,
above the brief preface to his “Bush
Babs.” This jolly rhyme book has given
us back some of what we’ve missed ever
since the war-time book of Australian
Nursery Rhymes went out of print.
Now we see it was D. H. Souter who
wrote, as well as drew, the Man from
Menindie who counted sheep: and he
made that bubbling rhyme about the
rabbit and the dingo with its reassurance
of a happy ending adapted to the timidity
of the smallest child (or to the taste of
a circulating library subscriber):
But the rabbit thought it better that the dingo
didn’t meet him;
So he found another burrow, and the dmgo
didn’t eat him.
“Bush Babs,” being much illustrated as
well as written by Souter, has to include,
among its bush animals, the decorative
Souter cat. How? You are shown,
even on the cover, a striking marsupial
cat, with young: the Kanga-Felis, a prob-
lem not yet investigated by the vivacious
Mr. Robert Kaleski in spite of all his
deep knowledge of the ways and origins
of our odder beasts.
NETTIE PALMER.
A Satchel of Books
The Bodley Head has conceived the
bright idea of telling famous stories in the
form of pictures with explanatory notes.
The works are intended chiefly for young-
sters, but they are calculated to beguile
most grown-ups. Robinson Crusoe and
Lorna Doone are the first to make their
appearance. Frank C. Pape is the illus-
trator, and they cost 2s. 6d. each.
Portrait of a Murderer, by Anne Mere-
dith (Gollancz ; Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.). One
of those thrillers in which the identity
of the assassin is revealed at once. Adrian
Gray, aged 69, is murdered by one of
his sons at a Christmas gathering. The
novel analyses the motives behind the
crime and describes its reactions on the
murderer and other members of the
family. You almost like the parricide
before the finish.
Caroline Lockhart, who is responsible
for Old West—and New (Cassell;
Dymock’s; 7s. 6d.), is one of the few
women who write well about ranching,
cattle-rustling and cowboys. In this one
she describes the country round Montana
as it used to be when horses were used
almost exclusively for transport purposes,
and as it is in this age of motor-cars.
There is a spirited description of a run-
ning fight between enforcement officers
and their prey towards the end, and then
comes the inevitable understanding be-
tween Vance Galloway and the woman
he loved in the long ago. No man has
written anything better of i(s kind.
When Love Compels, by Henry St.
John Cooper (Sampson Low; Robertson
and Mullens ; 7s. 6d.). George Houghton
was a congenital criminal who, after
perpetrating many minor crimes, mur-
dered a nightwatchman. His method of
going into “smoke” was to grow a beard
and masquerade as the long-lost son of
a wealthy widow. According to the blurb
on the dust-jacket, “with supreme
audacity he succeeds in his deception
until he falls in love with Ellice May-
nard, who unwittingly brings about his
downfall.” Far be it from the reviewer
to blame the publishers for not reading
this involved and absurdly melodrama-
tic yarn, but they have it all wrong. It is
George’s deserted yet still devoted wife
Margaret who tracks him to Salehurst
and, in all fatuity, gives the show away.
The last sentence is typical of the style,
punctuation and sentimentalism:
Faithful to her love in life and death, Mar-
garet would not listen to the many who came
to ask for her hand in marriage, George Hough-
ton’s widow lived out her life —alone.
Sinclair Noel Brodie Dysart is the hero
of P. C. Wren’s Action and Passion (John
Murray ; Angus and Robertson ; 7s. 6d.).
An apprentice on the Valkyrie, a wind-
jammer, Sinclair has all the virtues of
the best and bravest British lads who
have gone down to the sea in the ships
of fiction. It seems invidious to pick out
any one splendid deed for special men-
tion, but his fight with the inevitable
mutineers cannot be overlooked. Ped-
dersen (“enormously strong, with a chest
like a barrel, arms like oak branches, and
fists like hams”); the horrific Villa;
Jake (“a powerful, active and dangerous
brute”) —he outs them all with his bare
fists. Jake comes to:
With a right uppercut I lifted his disfigured,
bleeding face, and, aiming for the point ol
the jaw, smashed in a terrific left hook.
Is it astonishing that the others —Brown,
Paulo and Axenstern—should refuse his
invitation to step forward for similar
treatment? And so home, as captain of
the Valkyrie, to claim sweet Elizabeth,
the Dean’s daughter. The Passion is
supplied chiefly by Celia, daughter of
Shanghai Charlotte, who makes attempts
on Sinclair’s virtue which are resisted
despite her jeers of “Joseph.” A queer
blend. Without Celia and the silly and
sordid sub-plot, it would be a good
adventure-story for boys.


9
:i
T
m
A
(S'
M
>•
■■i
Ml
■
I 1
V.
'
i»
;
m
■
■
-
4 ' *
m..
y
ore i
9


The Bulletin
Vol. 54—No. 2811.
December 27, 1933.
AGIN THE RULES.
“General O’Duffy was arrested under the Public Safety Act for. wearing a blue shirt. The High Court ordered his release.”
“It’s no Irishman ye are. Trailin’ me coat I am in an illigant fashion, an’ ye call the cops!”
“Trailin’ y’r coat’s no offince, as well ye know; but in trailin’ it ye let me see the color o’ y’r shirt. Take him away, b'ys, an' charge him wid high treason!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 177-178 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia.
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months. 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months,
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
1933 AND 1934.
Things seem to be improving in most
countries. Germany is one of the excep-
tions, if the president of its Reichsbank
can be believed ; asserting that there has
been a great decline in exports, and
attributing it to “British, American,
Japanese and Swedish dumping, facili-
tated by depreciated currencies,” his
committee has reduced interest payments
on the Dawes and Young rehabilitation
loans from 50 per cent, to 30 per cent.,
and suspended sinking-fund payments to
holders of Dawes securities. German
figures are nevertheless included in a
League of Nations bulletin on world
trade for October, which reports increases
of 16.3 per cent, in exports and 8.3 per
cent, in imports on the returns for April.
From the U.S.A. comes a Presidential
assurance that conditions are definitely
better after six months of the national
recovery plan. The British Chancellor
of the Exchequer has “every hope that
the current financial year will produce
a substantial surplus” ; compared with
the first half of 1932-33 the financial posi-
tion improved £40,000,000, the Foreign
Secretary says, and compared with 1932
800,000 more Britons have been employed.
And while the tragic economic war still
rages in the Free State, and Mr. De
Valera has had Mr. O’Duffy arrested for
the crime of wearing a blue shirt, North-
ern Ireland announces that the number
of registered out-of-works has fallen by
one-fifth.
In our own country we have witnessed
a substantial increase in the price of our
most important commodity, and the wool-
sales in all the mainland capitals have
proved that it was no flash in the pan.
Largely as a result, the December retail
trade has been the best for years, and
the Minister of Labor in the State which
grows nearly as much wool as all the
rest reports that the number of unem-
ployed registered at the Government ex-
changes fell from 115,000 in August to
92,000 at the end of November. There
has been a further drop this month, and
in some of the shires there are no unem-
ployed ; in branches of the clothing and
bootmaking trades there is a shortage of
labor.
On the other side of the conti-
nent they expect to be able to announce
that the State gold output for 1933 is
the highest since 1919, and the value in
Australian currency the greatest since
1915. And with the developments in pro-
gress on the Kalgoorlie-Boulder, Wiluna,
Murchison, Yilgarn and Norseman fields
the yield may reach 700,000 fine ounces
next year.
Yet Australia is far from being out
of the wood, and the able general
manager of the Bank of N. S. Wales is
wise in stressing the fact. It is gratify-
ing to read that, measured in pounds ster-
ling, exports for four months of 1933-34
exceeded imports by just on ten millions ;
it is not at all gratifying to consider the
state of industries which contributed to
the exports. The wheatmen, for their
part, are worse off than they were three
years ago. It has been necessary to
assist them with the proceeds of a sales
tax on flour—an unpopular expedient,
though justified in the emergency. Other
varieties of producers—poultry-farmers,
apple-growers, growers of soft fruits—
are clamoring for bounties or receiving
them.
Our Governments are still bor-
rowing too much and spending money
unproductively, mainly in the cities,
which, as the census has shown, shelter
half the mainland population ; and they
are still taxing too high. Commonwealth
income tax alone goes up to Bs. 8 2-sd. in
the pound, and every State has income
and unemployed-relief taxes, or the two
combined. Such remissions as have been
made recently are of themselves too small
to stimulate employment or interest-re-
duction.
Taxes must come down, interest must
come down, before industry will be in a
position to employ most of the adults now
idle, except for casual relief work, and
the boys and girls who have left school
and never had a chance of learning a
trade or calling. If the U.A.P. Govern-
ments now in power in the Common-
wealth and most of the States fail them,
the unemployed will assuredly turn to
the demagogues who, as they put it,
would “restore prosperity” by “national-
ising the banks” and “socialising credit,”
though they would very probably give us
a second innings of the depression in-
stead. Loan enterprises like the Murray
works must be carried on, but, apart
from these, every pound of new money
borrowed during the next two years
should be devoted to tax- and interest-
reduction, the concessions to be with-
drawn where no adequate return is
given. If the money were borrowed on
the premium-bond plan the loans could
be redeemed without adding to posterity’s
load. For the rest, thousands of unem-
ployed could be accommodated on small
holdings, particularly in the neighbor-
hood of country towns. Germany, the
U.S.A. and Britain itself are going in
for small holdings on a vast scale. Aus-
tralia, with greater opportunities in this
field and a more adaptable population,
is lagging behind.
THE PRICE OF BEER.
In this warm and festive season some re-
marks of Captain H. E. Adkins, who is
training a band for A.8.C., were timely.
He made them in Hyde Park, Sydney,
and several hundred people who had
come to hear the Director of the Royal
Military School of Music discourse about
oboes and wood-winds put their hands
together and licked their lips thirstily:
One thing I admire about your country is
that it does generate a thirst.... You make
some good beer, but I think the working
man will agree with me when I say you have
to pay too much for it.
The captain is right, even though news-
papers have chosen to pretend that they
believe his propaganda to be just one
more essay in humor by a native of the
land that invented the Frothblowers.
Despite all the prohibitionists may say,
no country has grown or remained great
which has not provided its people with
an ample supply of beverages with alcohol
in them. Modern Britain was bred on
mead, reared on ale, matured on usque-
baugh and expanded on Madeira, port,
rum and beer. In the days of their indus-
trial awakening, the age of Nelson and
Wellington, Sheridan and Reynolds,
Johnson and Cook, Britons drank
mightily on every field to which they
could transport liquor. Dour souls like
Lachlan Macquarie who made nations
also wrote resolutions not to drink more
than three bottles of wine and beer with
dinner. Governors reprimanded their
aides for getting drunk before dinner. It
is recorded of Lord Lake, as proof of
the hardships which he endured on an
Indian, campaign, that he was “without
claret for twenty-four hours,” and Wel-
lington, who never got beyond his second
bottle with dinner, was looked upon
almost as a teetotaller.
No doubt the views of the Georgian
age were extreme ; but so, at the other
end of the scale, were those of decadent
Greece. Becoming ascetic, it became
effete. In the case of each nation excess
was reached, but whereas the national
stomach balanced Britain’s overdose of
liquor, there seems to be no antidote for
an excess of abstinence except a suc-
ceeding excess of alcohol. Both are bad,
and the whole solution of the drink prob-
lem seems to lie in allowing the average
man to have an abundance of moder-
ately alcoholised liquor at a reasonable
price. Excess of alcohol content destroys
his soul and excess of price ruins his
pocket.
The most contented countries in the
world are those which have this abund-
ance of liquor of the right sort. In rural
France, where wine of the country is
drunk by men, women and children, one
rarely sees a drunken person ; the drink-
ing is orderly and does not interfere with
labor. In South Germany such cities as
Munich, where dunkles brau and belles
brau are almost laid on at the street-
corners, breed stolid, frugal people, some
of whom have made splendid Australian
colonists. On the other hand, the Arabs
and the Americans, frustrated in their
human need for liquor and forced to
obtain it furtively, become the most tur-
bulent and lawless peoples on the face
of the earth.
There is every need to feed the Aus-
tralian constitution with good, wholesome
mild beer, just as there is to supply it to
the manhood of England, where its use
is so prevalent that any alteration in beer
duties is a national event. Britain has
the sanest system ; its Government does
everything within reason to remove the
obstacles which in Australia tend to give
us dear beer. In this country no industry
consumes a higher proportion of local
produce than the breweries consume ; yet
no industry is more heavily taxed.
In the last British Budget the Ex-
chequer gave up £14,000,000 p.a. in re-
venue so that the price of beer might be
reduced by a penny a pint. But when
Riley, the member for Cook (N.S.W.),
suggested that the excise on beer in the
Commonwealth should be cut from 2s.
a gallon to Is. 6d. to admit of the price
being reduced to 3d. a glass, which was
about the average in pre-war days, the
Commonwealth responded with a cut of
3d. a gallon, which left the onus on the
publicans and brewers to find part of a
reduction of a penny a pint.
In this attitude of parsimony, the Com-
monwealth loses. Price is the factor
which governs demand, and the demand
for beer in Australia between 1928-29 and
1931-32 dropped 24,000,000 gallons, or
more than 30 per cent., with a consequent
loss of revenue of £1,700,000 a year.
Captain Adkins uttered a great truth
when he said:
The working man does his work better when
he can get good beer at a price he can afford
to pay.
Beer should not be more than sixpence
a pint. The present price is ninepence
for a “pint and a dash.” It is dear
drink both to the consumer and to
the country. Beer is the best soother
known to humanity. Revolutions in
countries which affect it as a beverage
usually get drowned in pintpots of village
inns. There is not the least reason why
it should be taxed to the limit any more
than some of the so-called “soft drinks,”
which shoulder none of the excise burden
and are apt to do more harm to digestion
and temper than all the good ale ever
brewed.
FOR THESE BLESSINGS—
My father, who was a Dragoon, came
to Australia in 1878. The doctors said
that if he took a long sea voyage he
might live six months, for he had
developed a lung. He arrived in Mel-
bourne in a top-hat and a frock coat,
somewhere in the tails of which was
hidden his patrimony, which had been
handed to him to pay his funeral ex-
penses. Hanging his top-hat on the first
tree as an encumbrance, he invested some
of the patrimony in a horse and, still
wearing his frock coat (which he kept
because it made a fine sleeping-bag
and marked him as a gentleman) he
mounted and set out to challenge fate.
Apart from being arrested on sus-
picion of being Ned Kelly, and being
bogged on the Narran, nothing seems to
have happened to him very much before
he ended his journey at a stockaded
station on Cooper’s Creek, not far from
where, a couple of decades before,
Burke and Wills had come to grief. There
he prepared for death. In 1933, still
alive, he has given up preparing for it.
After a few years he was married
before an Irish J.P. in Thargomindah to
a lady whom he brought 200 miles for
the purpose. In time he acquired a pro-
perty and me and several other little Aus-
tralians and a mortgage. In ’93 the
banks got the property. They might have
taken me, too, if I had been negotiable,
but what value is a small boy in turkey-
red pants, who has been born without
midwife in a bough shed, when sheep are
a shilling a head and ruined squatters
are being turned as nuisances off Moree
common? So I was left to accompany
the dray which had become our sole pos-
session.
Sometimes I like to look back, not
at myself but at Australia as it was then,
just to realise that we are really progress-
ing in spite of the politicians.
Forty years or so ago on the outer
Cooper, womenfolk still went about their
kitchen work with their revolvers slung
on a lanyard behind the door, and the
sound of the bell which called the men
to barracks when the tribes came in was
only then growing infrequent. The next
four or five years made little difference
except in security.
In the middle ’nineties there were no
State highways in those parts, no shearers
whirling by in their cars, no water sup-
plies, few bores. Stations were still regal
in extent. The great time of the year
was the arrival of the teams with the
season’s supplies. Squattocracy was
shaking its head over the newborn in-
dependence of Labor, and the burning of
the shed at Currawillinghi was regarded
as a foretaste of the revolution to come.
Properties such as Milo still shore a quar-
ter of a million sheep. They were like
towns in shearing-time, gay with
hawkers’ vans and little circuses, con-
fidence-men, greenhide-plaiters, drovers
in moleskins making down from the
overland, mustering cohorts of bullock
waggons waiting for “wool away,” and
flats around quiet waterholes dotted with
campfires of a night and vocal with the
lilt of concertinas.
Shearers’ huts were greasy places full
of oaths. Fly-specked sheets cut from
The Bulletin papered their walls—the
favorite picture about that time was a
full-page cartoon attacking the inhospit-
able decision of the pastoralists to do
away with travellers’ rations. For the
pastoralists there was continual struggle
with drought and freights and banks. For
a new race brought into being by the
age of subdivision there were selections
where Irish gentlemen parked a dozen
gangling offspring in a greenhide bed, as
a preliminary to the day when their
grandsons should have their names in the
“Home” and ride in Camden polo teams.
Damper and salt junk were the staple
ration ; brownie and tea the luxuries of
life. Vitamins were provided as pre-
served potatoes in red tins. Education
came as it would, for few had access to
schools. Small boys were kept captive
by being dressed in turkey red so that
they could be seen as they wandered.
Everybody suffered Barcoo rot and
sandy blight and eternal fly bite. The
huts of all who were not of the aristo-
cracy were bark, floored with cowdung
and antbed, sometimes with a black
snake nesting in the corner, always with
wood adders quarrelling in the cracks
of a night.
Those who did not possess a perma-
nent dwelling—and more than half the
people were in that case —owned a dray
with a Cape tilt, an iron camp-oven and
three or four washing-tubs, which made
an excellent raft over the endless creeks
which barred the travellers’ way. Fenc-
ing contracts were the mainstay, of those
who did not shear, and the word that
Mt. Something in Central Queensland or
“out Eromanga way” or somewhere else
was going to fence next year sent little
dray caravans moving months ahead, their
tilts swaying, their pots and tubs jang-
ling, their youth droving the family goat.
I got my earlier education in a dray,
gazing over the edge of Pope’s “Iliad” at
the saw back of a 17-hand-high mare
ajid a loping cabbage-tree hat that
went ahead of her, picking the track. I
have had to interrupt a study of the
walls of Troy while the combined school-
house and family mansion was encour-
aged over a rough patch with a swingle-
bar and the use of language which was
more vivid even than the Greek of'
Euripides. Sometimes, in those days,
there were urgent floggings forward of a
desperate horse to reach water which was
always mud and nearly always had to
be cleared with ashes before it was drunk.
Our dentist was a firm little woman
with a piece of string, which was tied to
a trunk lid at one end and the tooth at
the other. Extraction was accomplished
with a bang. Stern men dealt with
aching molars with a red-hot packing-
needle plunged into the cavity. There
were two medicines —painkiller and more
painkiller. When I was so incautious as
to plunge a pair of scissors into an eye
as a two-year-old, my mother placed me
on a bare-backed horse and rode a couple
of hundred miles for medical attention.
I still have the eye and the mother:
and she in her turn has something to
talk about beyond operations and laws
of contract bridge.
All this wild country to-day is dotted
with civilised improvements. The blacks,
those friendly but odorous friends of my
youth, have gone with the concertina.
The shearers’ huts of 1933 are better than
most station houses west of Roma in the
’nineties. Qantas roars overhead. Town
is never more than a few days away.
Flower gardens blossom where the night
horse once was kept. Wireless brings
London music to the door, and nobody
any more sings “I’ll Stick to the
Ship, Lad,” or “When Rafferty Won the
Mile.” Where the medico does not live
just round the corner, whence he may be
conjured up in a couple of hours in a
fast eight-cylinder job, there is the flying
doctor. Travelling and correspondence
schools bring education. Motor-lorries
take the wool. Spots which once were
the haunt of the curlew resound to the
platitudes of hurrying Prime Ministers
and Parkhills. The Parkhills assure us
that “Parliament and political leaders are
responsible for the progress ‘this country
has made.”
It is hard to believe, as one surveys the
middle-west of Australia to-day, that
the first white child of the first Darling
Downs marriage—the Downs being the
scene of the earliest Queensland pastoral
settlement —still lives, and that men like
Urquhart, whose troopers tamed the
savage Kalkadoon, now only a memory,
will be with us for many a year
yet. Nobody who looks back over the
changes which even one generation has
wrought in Australia, or who sees what
the workers of these longer lives have
carved out of a pristine continent, can
greet a new Australian year without con-
fidence and hope, depression or no
depression.
MARANOA.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
But Is It Representative?
The new N.S.W. Leg. Council, Mr.
Stevens said the other day, “will include
representatives of the varied interests of
the community ; there will be a number
of members especially interested in coun-
try matters.” He was tartly reminded by
Senator Hardy that only two of the 60
members would speak for the Riverina,
with a population of 300,000. Placed on
the defensive, he had to admit, though
not in so many words, that there will
be only 22 Leg. Councillors with interests
in districts beyond the County of Cum-
berland ; and several of them live in
Sydney.
West of Darling will be without a
member. So will Newcastle. There are
more women than men with the As-
sembly franchise, but the sex will be
unrepresented in the Council, although
there was a lady member in the moribund
institution, and there were two in 1931-
32. All the parties were determined to
exclude the sex ; it was the one thing
on which they were agreed.
A special clause was inserted in the
Reform measure to admit of T. M.
Shakespeare, who lives at Canberra most
of the time, qualifying for the retention
of his seat. He, however, failed of elec-
tion, and so did many other old members
who, like Shakespeare, had done nothing
to deserve being cast out —Grayndler,
secretary of the A.W.U.; Pillans, the
veteran representative of the Lithgow
miners; Sproule, who was in the Storey-
Dooley Ministry ; Kavanagh, another ex-
Minister and sometime Deputy Industrial
Commissioner, and Simon Hickey, one-
time Speaker. These men, all Laborites,
are head and shoulders above some of
the Laborites of both factions who sur-
vived the four ballots. On the other side
candidates like Graham Waddell and Dr.
Maguire were turned down in favor of
recent recruits to the U.A.P. like T. G.
Murray and Independents like J. R.
Gardiner, who claims to have been a
Nationalist “all my life,” in which case
he must be only 16 years old.
In the final result the U.A.P. will have
25 members, the Country Party 11, Lang
Labor 16 and Federal Labor five, and
there will be three Independents: Alam,
Trautwein and Gardiner. Federal Labor
will be grotesquely over-represented.
This faction ran a heap of candidates
for the Leg. Assembly election and
did not get one in. If another Assembly
election were held next month and
it had to contend, as in 1931, against
the Ministerial parties and the Lang fac-
tion, the result would be the same. Yet
this insignificant group will have one-
twelfth of the members in the “reformed
House,” and not its strongest men either.
Mr. Stevens again:
Whatever may be thought of some of the
members for whose election the Government
is not responsible, the reformed Constitution
has produced a House which will give the
public a sense of security and which, by its
sane outlook and practical wisdom, will gain
and retain the confidence of the whole
community.
It may be so, but a method of election
which gives Sydney an overwhelming pre-
dominance of members and gives seats
to the Trautweins and Alams and Donald
Grants has excited other emotions. The
faith which the Premier professes will
have to be implanted in the public mind
by works.
4
Prices and Mystery.
The report of the Queensland Agent-
General on the cost of living shows how
much a mystery prices can be. Bread, for
instance, is cheaper by 7 per cent, in
Brisbane than it is in the heart of the
wheat and milling country at Warwick
and Toowoomba. Brisbane bread car-
ries freight charges and extra overhead,
though perhaps bulk of production has
something to do with the difference. But
why should tea show an average of
23.6 d. per pound in Charters Towers
while at the seaboard 120 miles away
the cost averages 27.8 d. per pound?
Tea is cheaper in C.T. than in any
other big city in Queensland, including
Brisbane. Rice isn’t; it costs nearly a
penny a pound more in the Towers than
in Brisbane and a farthing more than in
Toowoomba. Potatoes, which grow
around Toowoomba, are dearer there
than in Brisbane. And look at these
prices:
Pence.
Potatoes, per qr.: Charters Towers .. 21.4
„ „ „ Townsville 15.0
Difference 6.4
It apparently costs nearly 6|d. to carry
potatoes 120 miles from the port on a
perfectly good railway, and market them
once again. But the same doesn’t apply
to onions. The onion is a privileged
vegetable. It costs 1.5 d. per pound in
Townsville and only 1.28 d. per pound in
the Towers! Townsville, instead of
charging middleman’s profit on onions,
gives its sister city a discount for taking
them away. They are a fastidious, well-
bred lot these Townsvillers. Brown
Spanish on top of brown nannygoat must
be too much for their olfactory nerves.
At the same time a sceptical reader
cannot help wondering whether statistics
are all they are cracked up to be.
-4
The Japanese Baby.
The International Birth Control centre
in London recently debated the toilsome
problem of over-population in Asia.
“With India’s increase of 34 millions in
the last ten years and Japan’s four babies
a minute in 1932, it is time that the red
traffic signal was turned eastwards,” re-
marked the president.
Plato declared that the ideal State
would contain 5040 citizens. There are
hundreds of factories in the world to-day
with a larger personnel, and the statesman
has populations of anything up to 170
millions to manipulate. And they don’t
even want to stop at that. Herr Hitler
and Mussolini tax bachelors and stage
mass marriages to stimulate the produc-
tion of larger and larger supplies of
infants. In Asiatic countries there is
hardly any need for Government action
in this regard, because the father of a
family has been conditioned to regard
the begetting of progeny as a sacred
obligation, especially boys, as the boys
provide for the old man’s comfort after
he is dead by sacrificing at the ancestral
shrine.
Japan, for its part, shows no sure signs
of being over-populated yet, despite
alarmist reports to the contrary. Over-
population is a matter of relativity. One
man on a desert island would be over-
population, but 60 million on an island
with plenty of blast furnaces, factories,
farms and a low standard of living might
be under-population.
The weakness of Japan lies in the fact
that it has built up an enormous external
trade which is largely artificial. If foreign
countries slam the gates in self-protec-
tion with tariffs and embargoes, the situa-
tion will be fraught with difficulty, arti-
ficial prosperity having produced an
internal flood of babies.
The Government may think out a
peaceful solution. On the other hand,
the military party may provide a war-
like one. Fear unifies a people more
readily than reason. To try to solve a
problem like that by preaching birth
control to an Asiatic nation, contrary to
its deepest psychological and biological
feelings, is like trying to empty the ocean
with a pannikin.
4
Lyons and Wilmot.
From a man on the spot:
The Prime Minister is M.H.R. for Wilmot.
He won it as a Labor man, and as a Labor
man he could not have held it. After some
difficult negotiations, the way was made clear
for him by the U.A.P., but electors have been
growing very restless the last year or so, and
are now obviously looking for blood. Hence
his frequent visits to the place.
Wilmot is an unusual electorate. It contains
no large town, no important centre. Part of
Launceston is included in its boundaries, and
portion of Devonport; the electoral centre is
Deloraine. Deloraine is a charming place, but
history has passed it by, and its influence is
negligible. The majority of the people are
connected with the land, and amongst them
a whole-hog supporter of Lyons is hard to find.
Lyons’s chief concern up to date has been to
secure immunity from attack by any U.A.P.
candidate. He succeeded in inducing the Nats.,
the Young Nats, and the U.A.P. to link together
into a United Australia Organisation, but it is
fairly loose. No definite arrangement was made
regarding immunity. Neither the Nats, nor the
Young Nats, will have it. at any price, and
if any attempt is made to enforce it the U.A.O
will go phut. The election, whenever it comes,
will be anybody’s fight. One of the represen-
tatives of Wilmot in the State House is Neil
Campbell. If he stands for the Federal seat,
as seems likely, he will be hard to beat.
Lyons has done a good deal, and promised
a lot more, for Tasmania, but neither will cut
much ice in Wilmot. The man who is dragging
a precarious living out of the soil will not cheer
very loudly at the announcement that the State
is to be connected with the mainland by a
telephone line. He will not throw up his hat
when he is told that large sums are to be
spent in providing better wireless facilities. His
reaction to the news that a bigger and better
ferryboat is to run between Melbourne and
Launceston is likely to be a positive one, of a
hostile character. He has a pretty shrewd sus-
picion that most of the things that are being
done, or promised, will benefit the man on
the city pavements more than those on the
land, and that suspicion is likely to show itself
about election time. Your Tas. farmer is a very
sore man these days. The wheat bonus will
help the Wilmot man not a bit.
There is a further intriguing possibility.
Labor has no chance of winning Wilmot. It
has an excellent chance of getting even with
Lyons in Wilmot and Guy in Bass. If these
two ex-Labor men are opposed by strong can-
didates, Labor may deliberately ride for a fall.
It may either do what Theodore persuaded
Queensland Labor to do in Darling Downs, or
put up a weak man, who will be likely to poll
lowest of the three candidates, in which case
Labor preferences will go against Lyons and
Guy.
The eyes of Australia will be on Wilmot at
the next election, and the chances are that a
really worth-while spectacle will be provided.
The Artist and the Tariff.
On his return from Europe, Sydney Ure
Smith raised the old plaint against the
Australian tariff on works of art. There
is no duty on works of art imported by
public galleries or other public institu-
tions, paintings bequeathed by the owner
and not imported for sale, and those im-
ported for educational purposes. There
are duties on paintings other than these.
Private traders do not engage in the
picture trade for the public good. In the
days when there was no protection they
imported shoddy Italian works, including
sculpture, much of which was peddled
from door to door. The only works that
could conceivably be regarded as educa-
tional have been imported by bodies like
the Felton Bequest, which is so rich that,
even if it had to pay a tariff, it would buy
the goods just the same. The only person
who has been affected adversely by the
tariff is the private connoisseur, and
what he did for Australian art in the
days when there was no tariff can be
seen by anybody who attends an auction
sale of pictures from a deceased
connoisseur’s estate. The works pre-
sented are nearly always worthless repre-
sentatives of fashions of some particular
period, which are now so dead that the
exhibits, scarcely draw a bid.
Mr. Smith says that the tariff denies
Australian painters the essentials for
study of technique and method. What is
technique? It is simply knowledge of
how to prepare a canvas, mix the paints
and apply them with a brush. A child
of twelve can learn it from a teacher in
a couple of hours. After this, if he has the
makings of a real artist in him, he will
automatically learn all the remaining
technique necessary by using his own
eyes on his own surroundings.
Positive benefits of the tariff are that it
has encouraged local connoisseurs to buy
indigenous works and thus promote the
development of a real Australian art.
4
Shorts and Slacks.
“El V.”: Canberra is troubled about
both. First, it objected when a young
woman appeared on the local golf course
in shorts. Then the voice of Senator
Lynch was heard complaining about girls
who visited the House in slacks. Now
a clergyman has turned a damsel wearing
this decent, though hideous, garb away
from a wedding.
The official attitude is, perhaps, natural
in. an Administration which prosecutes
New Guinea natives both for going about
not decently clad and for wearing cloth-
ing above the waist. (Only a lady may
dress above the waist in the Mandated
Territory. She does it when she is about
11 years old, and, since she stretches with
age and her blouse does not, you can
presently tell her years by measuring the
strip of skin which shows between upper
and lower garments.)
Still, the girls might well ask what
Canberra wants. An English dean re-
marked the other day, when faced with
the slacks problem, that if the Church
refused to associate with the insuffi-
ciently-clothed female form the mission-
aries would have a lean time. And he
was right. Of yore, it was nothing at
such places as Alexishafen to see a proud
worshipper arrive in the pink—or rather
in the brown —and, taking his parcel
tenderly from his canoe, put on glad
raiment at the church door. Yet, even
in that day, Alexishafen was within the
ambit of Canberra authority. If the Lady
Mayoress of Brisbane were to visit Can-
berra —she having declared that she will
wear slacks when on holiday—and the
beadle or whoever it is that guards the
Canberra Parliamentary portal were to
oust her, it might lead to civil war.
At the same time it is a good thought
which is driving the President of the
Senate and his co-workers to further ver-
botens. If they keep on long enough,
somebody will begin to think that another
censorship board is called for. And
every contribution to the solution of the
unemployment problem, however small,
is welcome, especially if the work likely
to be provided is congenial to a man of
taste and conservative principles.
. —♦
Wanted, a New Joss.
“T.C.”: It is time the white races looked
round for a new joss. The old fetich
public opinion is played out. In Italy
Mussolini knocked it off its pedestal with
one hit and rolled it in the dust. Hitler
has done as much in Germany. It re-
ceived a nasty knock in England from
the formation of the present Government,
with its Socialist head, its Tory legs and
nondescript tail. In the chosen home of
Democracy it is flouted by President
Roosevelt, who has been allowed to
pluck a big bunch of plumage from the
Bird o’ Freedom’s wing. In Russia pub-
lic opinion never counted for anything;
now it counts for less.
The fact begins to dawn that public
opinion is a myth. What goes by that
name is a pompous delusion with which
Demos flatters his pride. At the Spanish
elections 99 parties clamored for admis-
sion to the tartshop. Were they all of
equal strength, as there is no reason why
they might not be, the combination of
any two of them would represent what is
called public opinion. How can any
national system of government be based
on a foundation that shifts like a quick-
sand every day of the week? The
majority calling itself public opinion on
polling day might the following day be
kicked off the premises by another claim-
ing that title. This is what usually hap-
pens between polling day and polling
day, the custom here being for the major-
ity to change sides at each general
election.
The farce must finish. Government is
not now a matter of opinion, to be en-
forced by the brute strength of either a
monarch or a mob. It is a matter of
applying scientific knowledge to the com-
plex problems of modern life. Public
opinion knows no science ; all it knows
is how to bellow like a herd of bulls
of Bashan at political meetings. Call
that government? Government of any
kind postulates authority ; public opinion,
having no consistent existence, and its
“mandate” to-day being automatically
alterable to-morrow, can authorise no-
thing. Demos had better get that inside
his skull without much further delay, or
by the force of events he will have' it
knocked in. For all over the world it
is easy to see that, like O’Callaghan, party
government is on its last legs.
♦
Portrait of a Democrat.
“Whitehall” : Whatever you may say
about John Thomas Lang (B. 20/12/ ’33),
he is a- master-democrat in many respects.
There are few abler exponents of
a technique which John Wilkes origi-
nated, and which has been exploited since
by practically all proletarian leaders.
In the Leg. Assembly before the session
closed, he announced his unshakable in-
tention of standing by the oppressed
toilers against the ruthless battalions of
Capitalism, as represented by the banks
and insurance companies, in which scores
of thousands of workers have their
savings. It went down well, as it always
does ; as well as Wilkes’s mordant attacks
on tyrannous wealth and privilege used
to do. Yet Mr. Lang is a capitalist, and
Wilkes lived like one.
At that Auburn “social” Mr. Lang
hoped that
the Creator, who has been so lavish in
bestowing upon me the blessings of good
health, strength and loyalty to the people I have
sprung from, will continue His mercies and
enable me to continue the fight for the poor
and lowly.
Wilkes was an adept at this kind of
thing. He has been outdistanced in it by
but one British politician, so far as I
know—the late Horatio Bottomley. Bot-
tomley’s sublimest effort appeared in
“John Bull” during the war. I have
cherished it ever since as an example of
all that bathos should be.
I have spent hours with padres wondering
what is the inner spiritual meaning and purport
of this Thing.
Aye, and I have held the hand of the dying
—God rest their souls! .
I have visited the fields of Crecy and Agin-
court, in which former place—at the sugges-
tion of General Sloggett—the Prince of Wales,
a most popular officer, stood upon the spoi
from which Edward 111. watched the battle.
Bottomley knew his public, as Mr.
Lang does. Such gems helped materially
to bring the circulation of “John Bull”
above the million mark, and to present
their author as the possessor of a heart
as big as a bullock’s and as white as
snow. The Workers’ Friend, as he liked
to be known, crashed because he lacked
foresight. „
Wilkes had foresight. He saw the
Reform Bill coming when his friends
of the Hell Fire Club were laughing at
it, and he predicted the French Revolu-
tion a decade before it began. Has Mr.
Lang a trace of Wilkes’s vision. Judging
by his rash promises—that N. S. Wales
farmers would get 7s. 6d. a bushel for
their wheat, that loan money would pour
in from depression-scourged London and
New York—he is not far-seeing. Has
he Wilkes’s physical courage—an asset
which was extremely valuable politically
to the Liberator? Indisputably he has
a certain moral audacity, born of con-
tempt for the mob’s reasoning powers,
a conviction, bred of twenty years ex-
perience, that, however badly the sovereign
democracy is let down, it will always
come back for more in time. And he is
as hard to abash as Wilkes or Bottomley.
So, as Mr. Gander hinted at the
Auburn function, Mr. Lang may reach
the Federal Parliament as representative
of the seat which is being kept warm tor
him, and, if he does, he may go far. He
is capable of robustious methods—the
lavish, roaring methods that crowds love
which the twittering Scullin can never
hope to emulate.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Darlinghearsed”: A darned good
game is “Resolutions,” suitable for any
pleasant social party, but particularly
applicable to the blessed Christmastime.
Resolutions are shuffled in a hat and each
member of the party has a draw ; the
hilarious result may be that the irre-
proachable mother of a large family may
find herself pledged to cease wearing
slacks and to abjure loose love affairs,
“Another insult from you and I’ll hop up and screw your neck!”
a parson (if there is one about) is bound
to cut out chorus girls, a maiden of
17 must chuck away the old pipe and
buy a new one, and the commercial
traveller must undertake to cease boring
people with politics. But in Darling-
hurst even simple games have a habit
of running to extremes; and a recent
game of Resolutions led to police cells
(until bail was found) for some of the
participants. The man who started the
fracas had unfortunately drawn things
that hit home ; he found himself adjudged
to pay his board, pay his alimony, and
leave other men’s wives alone. Obeying
the calls to read out what he had drawn
in his last dip into the hat, he did so ;
and followed it by striding across the
room and smiting another male member
of the company hard on the nose. A
few minutes later even the chairs were
in a free fight.
* * *
“Shep”: Kingsford Smith was reported
the other day as having done his son
and heir a future favor by importing
the European custom of storing away a
supply of wine to be broached on the
youngster’s twenty-first birthday. Some
of us Diggers first
learned of the laudable
practice at Pradelles, in
Flanders, thanks to the
foresight of the owner
of the village chateau
in laying in a good
stock of liquor to
mature for his first-
born. He had done the
job thoroughly, an
array of spirits,
liqueurs, and wine of
all sorts having been
stacked on shelves, and
the whole lot com-
pletely bricked up,
from floor to ceiling of
the cellar, out of the
way of temptation.
Hardened drinkers < f
our crowd lived within
yards of it for weeks
without the slightest
suspicion of the treasure
which the chateau
held; then a German
shell, landing in the
shattered rooms above,
shook part of the
camouflaging wall down. If there is any
virtue in toasts, the heir for whom this
provision was made should be assured
of a happy and prosperous life.
* * * *
“Siegfried”: Stevenson got much
nearer to sleeping in the Sydney Domain
than by occupying a bedroom in the
Union Club (B. 13/12/’33). In fact, he
did sleep there, though not “under the
wide and starry sky.” On one of his
visits to Sydney he lodged in a house on
Raymond-terrace, at the back of the
Mitchell Library, which is actually in
the Domain, and is now a sanctuary for
Government servants. I lodged there, too,
when I first came to Sydney—-as the
landlady proudly informed me, in the
very same room where R.L.S. had once
slept.
* * * *
“Fourwalls”: Our local grocer (a J.P.
and an honest man) recently stuck up
on his window the notice “FOUND—
Small purse containing £5 note. Apply
within.” The first to make a claim was
an old chap whom tradesmen in the
street regard with no great favor. Asked
to describe the purse he said rather
vaguely that it was a little, well-worn
brown leather thing. “What’s the number
of the note?” asked the grocer. The
claimant didn’t know; “never took
notice,” he explained. “But it had the
mark of a purple pencil—jest a dot —on
one of the corners,” he recalled. The
grocer brought out the slip of currency,
examined it and saw that it had no such
mark. The old chap asked to have a look
at it and after a close scrutiny handed it
back. “This one ain’t mine,” he ad-
mitted ; “it hasn’t got a purple dot.”
Leaving the shop he made for the nearest
telephone booth. Twenty minutes later
a young woman entered the grocery
store, claimed the purse, gave the number
of the fiver and came out with it. Dad
had examined the note, particularly the
figures on it, to some purpose. His only
shot in the dark was the description of
the purse, and that was near enough.
* * * *
“Oran”: Two Goulburn (N.S.W.)
children, taking a Christmas survey of
the gifts in a large local store, found
themselves locked in, and sought refuge
in the basement, where they settled down
comfortably to sleep. Some of the assis-
tants returned that evening to decorate
the premises, but did not discover the
youngsters, who slept on undisturbed.
They were awakened when the night
watchman and the police tramped
through the premises, but they remained
quiet as mice and escaped at dawn by
lowering themselves from the first-floor
windows by means of a chain crane.
Asked by their distracted parents why
“ I’m a burglar!”
“How perfectly thrilling!”
they had not attracted the attention of
the watchman or the police the young
hopefuls said that they were afraid of
being mistaken for burglars and shot
before they had time to introduce them-
selves.
* * * H=
“Nakhoda”: A variant on the “strange
wild animal” scare has been provided in
a Melbourne suburb. A Balwyn house-
holder went into his backyard before
breakfast and found an elephant. It had
stripped the foliage off a fruit tree, turned
on a tap, got itself a drink and sat on
a dustbin. While the householder was
pondering whether to ring up the police,
the fire brigade or the family doctor, an
attendant from a circus turned up with two
more elephants and led the animal away.
It had apparently spent the night in the
backyard, which was only 200 yards from
its home, while horsemen were scouring
the countryside for 20 miles around.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Dr. Zwar, president of the
Melbourne University Association, has
thrown a bombshell into the camp of
the philologists by announcing that the
King pronounces “centenary” with a long
“e.” Authorities had been arguing the
point for weeks ; the King settled the
matter two seconds after opening his
mouth at a London University celebra-
tion. The man in the street still sticks to
the short vowel, but Melburnians are
nothing if not loyal, so it can be con-
fidently asserted that Melbourne will cele-
brate its centeenary next year.
* * * *
“Icarus”: The disclosure that Hinkler
left over £12,000 rather shakes the im-
pression that great airmen are nearly
always at grips with chronic impecuni-
osity. Not that it represents a handsome
return for Hinkler’s aerial achievements,
but at least it was very far from being
a negligible one. Only a few months
ago somebody was pointing out that
Hinkler missed a grand opportunity of
turning his solo trip from England
to Australia to financial account by
not employing a good publicity agent to
help him reap the harvest which lesser
achievements have brought to much less
distinguished men. He hadn’t the finan-
cial sense, it was deplored ; he was con-
tent to take just what was given to him
by the Queensland Government. Still,
it is satisfactory to learn that he invested
what he did get securely. Perhaps the
strangest thing is that a man who took
his life in his hands so often should never
have troubled to make a will.
“Hunter Tucker”: That par. about the
unsuitability of modern headgear and
the- consequent loss to hatters (B.
13/12/’33) prompts me to suggest the
introduction of the turban for male Aus-
tralian wear. The turban has many ad-
vantages. It completely hides a bald
head; it need not be removed when
saluting the fair sex ; it never loses shape,
and, when dirty, can be sent to the laun-
dry. In addition, it lends itself to endless
color schemes, and is both cool and
comfortable.
* * *
“Corporal Wanst”: When an Austra-
lian officer drove with his bride from the
church to the wedding feast in a trans-
port tractor “S. M. Herald” asserted that
it was an old military custom. With some
experience, writer cannot recall a similar
case where an officer was concerned. With
the regular army of the long ago, and
especially in India, the privilege of bor-
rowing a pair of artillery or A.S.C.
horses was occasionally granted to de-
serving n.c.os., the nags being hitched
to a hired landau—if any modern reader
knows what that is—for the drive from
the church. Kipling mentions the cus-
tom in “The Sergeant’s Wedding”:
Grey gun ’orses in th’ landau....
No ; I won’t quote the next line.
* * * *
“Gentle Joe”: There are times when
scraps of long-forgotten poetry come
back to me with stunning force. The
other day I was in the sort of bar
where an archdeacon could have a
snifter. Occupants when I arrived were
a chap with a crutch —lean-faced,
clean-shaven —who looked as if he might
have landed among the first on
Anzac Beach; flanking him were two
groups of well-tailored business blokes.
The ex-Dig was slowly lowering a pint
o’ bitter. Entered a person with a butter-
fly tie and flamboyant demeanor who
demanded loudly to be told how long he
had to wait before he got attention.
Given attention (and Miss Smith, who has
been in that bar 18 years and has served
43 Premiers and five Priministers, took
her time about it), he announced that he
had recently arrived from Civilisation,
where Men had Brains, and he wasn’t
going to stand any nonsense from a
hick burg back in the sticks. Further-
more, any darned Australian who
thought his country had anything to do
with winning the war had another guess
coming. At this stage the chap with the
crutch faced up to the newcomer. His
lean face had gone white, and he said
something so softly I couldn’t hear it.
But Butterfly did. He slung a perfectly
good glass of lager in Mr. Crutch’s face,
and then lifted up a hoof to kick him.
Mr. Crutch retaliated by grabbing
the nearest bottle. At this stage the
business men fell upon Butterfly, and a
strenuous time was had by all (except
me ; I’ve not the physique for brawls)
for about three minutes. Miss Smith
vanished to summon the manager and
the police. It was a willing go, and [
watched it with extreme interest. It
ended when Butterfly squirmed from
under with great suddenness and fled the
scene. It was about five minutes later
when Miss Smith noticed that there
was no cash in the register, and when
four of the business men discovered their
pocket-books were A.W.L. It was then
that bit of poetry came back to me, “Oh,
where was he, the cripple boy, so weak
but yet so brave?”
A SLIGHT ERROR OF JUDGMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Postmaster-General Parkhill deprecated destruc-
tive criticism of Parliamentary institutions. When
a slight error of judgment on the part of Parlia-
ment was made, it was represented as a gross and
heinous offence.” — S. M. Herald.
When we lifted our screws on that notable
night,
We all of us counted it proper and right;
We never foreshadowed how critics would
smite
Or thought how the papers would thunder.
We hadn’t the slightest idea at the time
Of the storm that would break on the salary-
climb.
But, bless us and save us! it wasn’t a crime,
At the worst it was merely a blunder.
A trivial error of judgment, perhaps;
A venial slip, an excusable lapse.
We’ve never set up as infallible chaps,
And this world would indeed be a wonder
If nobody stumbled or slithered or erred.
Or foozled his drive or invited the bird.
But to call it a heinous offence is absurd;
The wisest and best of us blunder.
There’s a tag in the old Latin grammars you’ll
see,
Nemo sapit omnibus horis —and we
May have nodded a bit when we passed the
decree
For making our purses rotunder.
But to stamp it a vile and disgraceful offence
Is bound to awaken resentment intense;
The man with the veriest fragment of sense
Must see it was only a blunder.
That we put up our pay is undoubtedly true,
But we never envisaged the noisy ado
Our action would bring, and the hullabaloo
Occasioned thereby and thereunder.
Untimely, perhaps, and a little bit strong,
But they’ll never admit, will the Canberra
throng,
It was flatly dishonest or wilfully wrong:
At the worst it was merely a blunder.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“L. 1.8.”: A Sydney witness told coun-
sel the other day that he was never cer-
tain as to which was his right or left side.
He wore a returned soldier’s badge, and
in answer to further questions said that
on active service he was always in the
awkward squad. It isn’t so absurd as it
seems. One of the troubles awaiting the
new hand called out t 9 drill a squad is
the difficulty of realising that the men
opposite him are in inverted order as far
as he is concerned, and it is no uncom-
mon thing for him to order right or left
turn when he means the opposite. Writer
knew one very smart and efficient Light
Horse colonel who would frequently give
a regiment the order to move to one flank
when he meant the other. It must be
said in excuse that he was an old regular
cavalry officer.
* # . * *
“Sixenate”: Vic. Attorney-General
Menzies’s measure making possible for a
husband to receive alimony or mainten-
ance from a well-to-do wife is written of
as if it were something new, but the
power already exists in N. S. Wales. I
know of a couple who together built up a
boarding-house business ; the husband fell
ill, and his wife, becoming impatient,
ordered him out. The business was in
her name, but the Court obliged her to
make a weekly allowance. There has
even been a case in which the tables were
completely turned. A man who had
been paying maintenance for years (and
sometimes going to gaol for non-pay-
ment) asked the Court, to which he had
to be dragged, if it was a fair thing ; his
“You modern girls are too biassed.”
“What do you mean ?” „
“It's bias this and bias that until a fellow's broke to the wide ."
wife had a job from which she got £4
a week, the children were grown up,
while he, who was unemployed and in
ill-health, was still expected to pay money
he did not possess. The Court, after
dismissing the action for arrears, sug-
gested that the man should make an
application for support. This he did sue-
GpVpnllv
* y . * * *
“Centurion”: The decision of the mili-
tary authorities to permit certain regi-
ments to wear the kilt if they pay for it
themselves has been accompanied by the
announcement that the unaccustomed
Australians will be permitted to wear
scanties underneath. I don’t know how
it is now, but in the days of the old regu-
lars any unfortunate recruit to barracks
or mess who had recourse to such effemi-
nate nonsense was brought up with a
round turn. If the offender was a ranker,
he would probably, after his barrack-
room had done with him, be “crimed”
by his sergeant for being improperly
dressed. If he was an officer —and the
matter was always settled at the end of
his first night at mess by a committee of
inquiry under the senior sub., the seniors
having discreetly withdrawn —penalty for
a breach of the law made a considerable
addition to his wine bill.
* * * *
“C.H.F.”: The story related by
“Avon” (B. 22/11 /’33) of a girl being
illegally detained in M.L. institutions is
entering on further stages. The girl has
petitioned the House of Representatives
for a grant of £lO5O as compensation
for illegal detention, and also seeks to
have her name expunged from M.L.
criminal records. Grounds for compen-
sation are based on legal expenses in-
curred, harm done by being forced to
associate with women of evil repute in
Borstal institutions and Mt. Eden Gaol,
mental suffering and a few other things.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Informed by ’phone that a
chimney stack at a timber-mill had col-
lapsed and injured 50 people, the Mel-
bourne civil ambulance acted promptly
and thoroughly. Six waggons, each
carrying two stretchers and two men,
were dispatched, and the chief officer him-
self hastened to the scene. In the mean-
time the Alfred Hospital was notified.
The wards were already severely taxed,
but one was cleared and extensive pre-
parations were made for the reception of
casualties. Then it turned out that some
perverted idiot had given a false alarm.
* * * *
“G.D.M.”: Nearly 100 years after
Hoddle and Russell laid out Melbourne
the inhabitants are beginning to realise
that they made a very bad job of it. On
three sides there is no room for free
expansion of the city; the Yarra blocks
the south, the West Melbourne swamp
is a barrier on the west, and the sur-
veyors themselves used the Parliament
House, Treasury and Fitzroy Gardens as
a permanent limit on the east. They
never thought to make the lanes, which
they intended to be entrances to the back-
yards, the same width as the main streets,
with the result that the congestion in
Little Flinders, Collins, Bourke and Lons-
dale streets is serious and increasing. With
a little more vision they would have let
the Yarra run through the centre of the
city. Once past Lonsdale-street to the
north the city has ceased to grow. All
new buildings and new businesses are
erected inside the limits of four streets,
and the price of land and rents have gone
up without check. I never feel inclined
to take off my hat to the statues of the
unimaginative Hoddle and Russell.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Melbourne will be
celebrating next year, not the centen-
ary of the founding of the city, but that
of Batman’s treaty with the aboriginal
proprietors of the soil. It was in 1834
that Batman, crossing the Saltwater
River, marched through Heidelberg to
the Plenty River, two miles above its
junction with the Yarra, and . there pur-
chased from the Douttagalla tribe an
enormous estate for the price of a few
blankets and things. He then returned
to Tasmania, and did not come back till
1835. An appropriate highlight of the
centenary junketings should be a week of
pageants and what not round about the
Lower Plenty Hotel, now the property of a
golf club which owns a neighboring
natural arena; this would serve admir-
ably. It is the centre of some of the finest
and most characteristic scenery round
“Remember that young doctor ? He was another victim of flu.”
“Didn’t know he was dead?”
“He isn’t; but he married a patient he attended for it.”
Melbourne. Two rivers wind through a
lush landscape, diversified by bushland,
centuries old, and cultivation. Oilman
Dartch’s £25,000 mansion, one of the
show places of Victoria, is in the vicinity.
There are other historic places, notably
St. Helena, with its private chapel, grave-
yard and willows from Napoleon’s tomb.
The centenary committee ought to go
into the matter.
* * * *
“Runa”: I once saw a political meet-
ing in M.L. broken up by a swarm of
bees. A candidate
had mounted a
small street-
corner platform
for a lunch-
hour oration
when a queen bee
with a roving
commission
alighted on the
political placard
in front of the
dais. It was evi-
dent from the be-
ginning that her
followers were
numerous and en-
thusiastic ; the
orator, neverthe-
less, made heroic
efforts to
harangue his fast-
diminishing audi-
ence. With bees
buzzing about his
head he carried
on, addressing
impassioned re-
marks on Gov-
ern m e ntal ex-
travagance to the
humming atmo-
sphere, until a
large bee flew de-
terminedly into
his mouth while
he was thinking
of the exact word. He was removed by
sundry brave friends, and a few minutes
later the swarm was swept into a box by
a little man who was entirely uninter-
ested in politics, but knew a good swarm
when he saw one.
jj* ♦ ***
“Lao-dah”: After having been verbally
consigned to a dozen or so spots in the
metropolis and other parts of the State,
Captain Cook’s alleged childhood’s home
has settled down in the Fitzroy Gardens.
Curator Smith has contracted to sur-
round it with an English hedge, English
roses and shrubs, and in due course Eng-
lish creepers will creep over the ancient
stone. The only thing now lacking to
make the atmosphere of the transported
antiquity complete is some certainty that
the navigator ever dwelt in it.
“Pawang”: A curiosity amongst Mel-;
bourne medicoes is an elderly physician
who owns a clinic in a suburb. As a -
student at the University he had to
struggle with a tendency to stutter.
the viva voce exams, this defect flooied
him repeatedly until he discovered that
if he had a few drinks he could talk with
ease and fluency. Arguing from this, he
made a special study of the stammerer,
and found that a similar state of ecstasy
could be induced if the patient sang. His
clinic is an extraordinary place ; it might
be a music conservatorium. And the
treatment doesn’t end there. The doc.,
a thoroughly unconventional man, will
sometimes put a question to a patient in
Collins-street, and if the patient starts
to stutter a reply he will slap him on
the back and shout, “Sing it, man, sing
it!” A keen golfer, he takes recalci-
trant cases caddying, and in their pro-
gress across the links they resemble a
peripatetic choir.
* * * *
“Mells”: The reference to Lloyd
George having the tongue of a Welsh
angel and to Winston Churchill’s literary
ability (B. 20/12/’33) is a reminder that
Asquith had two amazingly gifted and
energetic lieutenants _ when his Liberal
Government was making domestic history
in the pre-war years. The three towered
above all others, and there was frequent
speculation, 20 to 25 years ago, as to
whether the Asquith mantle would even-
ally fall on Lloyd George or Winston. As
it happened it fell on neither; Lloyd
George grabbed it, elbowing his old chief
out. But he broke up the Liberal party in
the process, or rather in the years that
followed it, and the Liberal leadership
ceased to have much value in the Par-
liamentary game when there was no
longer a party worth speaking of to lead.
So nowadays Lloyd George presents the
pathetic spectacle of a leader without
followers, except two or three near rela-
tives; Churchill, who has become a
Conservative once more, is in eclipse, and
it doesn’t look as if there was an
Asquithian tradition for anyone to suc-
ceed to. The war altered few things
more irretrievably than the course of
British politics.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: Mary Pickford is the latest
to announce her conversion from
materialism. The World’s Sweetheart, by
capitalising a certain baby charm, rose
from obscurity to the altitude of £3OOO a
week, and earned in one year as much
as £125,000. When the talkies arrived she
became momentarily alarmed, being the
possessor of a voice that contradicted her
softly sentimental look, but she overcame
this defect and continued to deluge the
screen with molasses and infantility. Pre-
viously she had married her fellow-prac-
titioner, Fairbanks, and they built an
ornate and vulgar palace costing £40,000.
Douglas abandoned her and Mary found
religion. “There is no happiness in wealth
or fame,” she says. “I had to seek God
to tune-in with the infinite.” There is
something pathetic in the spectacle of an
ageing actress becoming maudlinly in-
terested in her soul because she has
ceased to be physically interesting to the
fickle crowd.
BALLADE OF THE LAST STRAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, whv is spinach still served with sand.
And why, since rocks may be picked up free,
Does nobody murder the loud jazz band.
And what becomes of our £ s. d..
And why in artistic ecstasy ,
Do the beauty-lovers tear down the wattles.
And why, oh why, do the fiends m glee
Put onion pickles in small-necked bottles/
Income tax we can understand.
And some of the woes that the fates decree.
We’re born, as sparks by the bellows tanned
Fly up, a dolorous weird to dree;
Eve ate the fruit of the fatal tree,
And sorrow our joy bedims and mottles;
But it’s over the odds to find for tea
Onion pickles in small-necked bottles.
Satan strews with a lavish hand
Our way with worries and frets, lis he
Who sets astray the careers we’ve planned,
And serves the dishes that disagree.
He locks the house and mislays the key.
He feeds poor pot-plants with butts and dottels,
And he holds his infamous jubilee
Putting onion pickles in small-necked bottles.
ENVOY.
Posterity, you’ve done naught for me,
But I’ll set you straight ere oblivion throttles
Me quite: Put trust in the Powers That Be,
And your onion pickles in w/rfe-necked
bottles.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


.
■ ' 'pp |,r
■H
. Mi
Quality should be your
first consideration
CRAVENS
in the nea> mei&ttOie-ptocf
► cellophane:,..PACK
20 for 1/6
POLITICAL POINTS
Australia will save upwards of
£300,000 p.a.—£243,000 in interest and
£61,000 in exchange—on the latest loan
conversion negotiated by Bruce. That
indefatigable gentleman asked for
£16,647,000 at 3| per cent., the price of
issue being £99, and there were 15,830
subscribers, of whom only 16 per cent,
of the cash applicants could be accom-
modated. The interest yield is £3 16s. 9d.
per cent., and evidently Australia will do
still better next time.
The Stevens Government proposes to
do away with adult franchise in N.S.W.
municipalities and the lodger vote in the
City of Sydney. If it is as good as its
word, it will save the city from falling
into the hands of another Tammany
gang and prevent improvident suburban
municipalities from going bung. Its
main trouble will be with the U.A.P.
caucus, members of which are sure to
contract cold feet.
The insane spectacle of Governments
deliberately destroying food while mil-
lions of people go hungry has been ad-
vanced a step in the U.S.A. There the
Secretary of Agriculture proposes a pro-
cessing tax on milk, proceeds to be used
to purchase cows. The cows are to be
slaughtered to raise the price of milk.
Presumably the bodies will be burnt for
fear butchers might get hold of the flesh
and sell it, thus lowering the price of
meat.
Just before Christmas it was reported
from Nanking that the Government,
which needs money for an ever-voracious
army, was about to clap heavy duties on
wheat and flour. The imposts would
hit Australia hard —last year this country
sent £6,000,000 worth of wheat and flour
to China —and in a desperate attempt to
avert them Lyons and co. took the im-
port embargo off peanuts, thereby in-
furiating the Queensland growers. Pos-
sibly they will be reduced to buying the
Australian peanut crop and giving it to
the ever-voracious army.
Parkhill is going to a postal congress
in Egypt or somewhere, and then on to
London. It is proposed that he should
stay there for several months while
Bruce, now High Commissioner, comes
home for a visit. When Bruce was being
got out of the way the story was that
“the collective responsibility of Ministers”
would be a busted principle if a Minister
was on duty in London.
France and Belgium have defaulted
again in their war-debt payments to
U.S.A. Their position is that they are
getting nothing from Germany, which
occupied their richest districts for four
years, and that, therefore, they cannot be
expected to pay the ally who fought be-
side them for a few months.
Operations at Mt. Isa (N.Q.), which
have been held up for months be-
cause two men were justly sacked for in-
fringing explosive regulations, are about
to be resumed. The stoppage has cost
miners and tradesman at least £50,000
in wages ; the co., which has not yet paid
expenses, has also been hard hit. Queens-
land Industrial Court has been so im-
pressed by the co.’s case that it has
ordered wage cuts. Solidarity may be
a great principle, but it is apt to be
dashed expensive.
It’s doubtful whether De Valera’s
Christmas dinner agreed with him. He
had General O’Duffy arrested for the
crime of wearing a blue shirt, only to
see him immediately released by the
High Court. At the same time the British
Government, which already taxes Free
State produce in retaliation for the repu-
diation of the land annuities, imposed a
50 p.c. restriction on imports of cattle
from Southern Ireland to help the British
cow-farming industry. In picking a
quarrel with the Saxon, the Government
at Dubhn played into the hands of the
politicians who are set on reviving British
farming. Elliott, the Minister of Agri-
culture, is as fanatical in that way as
De Valera is in his.
Victorian and N.S.W. 54- per cents.
(£6,888,000 of the first and £2,980,000 of
the second) were converted in the recent
London operation, along with South Aus.
and Tasmanian 5 per cent5.—£5,633,000
and £1,146,000 respectively. Australia
has the right to convert another
£17,854,800 of 5 per cents.—£l3,B7s,Boo
Victorian and £3,979,000 N.S.W. The
job will be done before Bruce comes
home, and when he comes home with
his task worthily completed he should
not be allowed to return. Lyons could do
what is necessary to be done in Lon-
don ; Bruce’s place is in Australia at the
head of a U.A.P.-Country party Ministry.
“Mr. Lang has never been known to let a pal down ."—Speaker at Auburn Town Hall.
CHORUS OF APPARITIONS : “Oh, yeah ?”
No politician has reason to regard the
revival of gold-mining with greater satis-
faction than “Texas” Green, who repre-
sents 32,000 people and 900,000 square
miles in Kalgoorlie. When mines were
closing down and cockies were taking up
portions of abandoned goldfields and
it seemed certain that redistribution
would add portions of old farming dis-
tricts to Kalgoorlie, the outlook for
“Texas” was blue. He was so concerned
about it that he decided to buy a farm
himself and pose as a hardy agricul-
turist. Now farming has slumped
in the electorate, the gold-mining popula-
tion has increased by thousands, and re-
distribution no longer has any terrors
for “Texas.” Kalgoorlie has become a
safe Labor seat once more.
The new Commonwealth civil-service
list shows some strange anomalies in
salaries. H. P. Brown, permanent head
of the P.M.G.’s department, gets £4OOO
a year less depression deductions. Per-
haps anybody with the neck to charge
his customers 6s. a half-year for render-
ing a detailed telephone account de-
serves it. Next comes Malcolm Shepherd,
civil head of the Defence Department,
who is paid more than the Inspector-
General. The Comptroller-Generalship
of Customs is deemed to be worth less
than half Brown’s job. Time the Public
Service Commissioners were asked to do
a little levelling up.
Queensland Labor, having decided to
build the bridge across the Brisbane
River, has appointed a commission to
superintend the work, though Dr. Brad-
field will be the actual constructor and
supervisor. The personnel of the com-
mission is sound—Brigden, director of
the Bureau of Industry; Kemp, Com-
missioner for Main Roads, and Story,
Public Service Commissioner. Their job
will not be easy. The hardest part will
be keeping costs down to estimates.
Stevens, the N.S.W. Premier, ended the
year worthily by serving out Christmas
cheer in the shape of an extra week’s
rations to those on the dole or on emer-
gency relief work. Over 90,000 workers
benefited, and 40,000 hampers of Christ-
mas provisions were also handed out
through charitable organisations. Stevens
has done well on the whole. He has
brought frugality and order into many
Government c Alices which were on the
verge of chaos. His last gesture has a
human touch which is a refreshing
change from the attitude of Lang, who,
preaching “men before money,” wiped
Christmas cheer off the official slate in
1931.
Mention was made in Sydney* news-
papers at the week-end of half a dozen
railwaymen at Albury who received de-
partmental cheques for £5O or £6O in
recognition of “miscalculations” made two
years ago, when their pay was reduced
more than it should have been. These
“miscalculations” seem to be rather
common. A delegate to the N.S.W.
Teachers’ Conference said he had recov-
ered £33 which his department had under-
paid him. Also:
Instances were cited in which, teachers had
been overpaid for months, even years, and
were then called upon, at great personal hard-
ship, to submit to deductions from their pay.
Conference resolved, by 126 votes to 36,
that in such cases the department should
bear the loss. Presumably, “miscalcula-
tions” are also made at the expense of
taxpayers, but taxpayers never pass such
amazing resolutions. They lack the
opportunity, if not the nerve.
With the exchange so much in favor
of travellers from Britain, Australia
ought to be getting heaps of trippers and
sojourners from that country ; but they
are not nearly so numerous as Austra-
lians going to Britain, who have to add
25 per cent, to ordinary fares. An Adel-
aide K.C., commenting on a recent deci-
sion of the House of Lords, explains
why:
If a person resident in Australia receives £lOO
of income in England and does not bring it
to Australia, our Taxation Department, saying
£lOO in England is worth £125 in Australia,
claims tax on £125. As income tax is imposed
at so much in the pound, the department’s
practice is wrong—in fact, the Board of Review
held that it was wrong. Nevertheless, the
department continues to issue assessments on
the larger amounts.
This kind of thing soon gets about, and
so what might in other circumstances
be a boom in British tourists has not
arrived. Similarly, population is being
driven out of N.S.W. because 5 per cent,
relief tax is extorted from residents who
receive income from other States. The
official definition of “resident” seems to
be anyone from other parts who has set
foot in N. S. Wales.
New committees are needed in all our
Parliaments—committees of privilege to
deal with cases where private citizens have
been baselessly attacked on the floor of
the House, and afford them means of
getting even. For example, former Labor
Minister Cain asserted in Vic. Assembly
that Prof. Copland, while keen on reduc-
ing workers’ wages, had refused to ac-
cept a cut in his own salary. The Uni.
Chancellor’s reply was that Copland had
suggested taking 10 per cent, off staff
salaries, his own, of course, included, and
that the economy had been made. From
any newspaper publishing such an asper-
sion the prof, could wring an apology or
damages ; but the member is safe.
Daily newspapers are perturbed about
a cosmopolitan meeting held in Tokio
which urged the youth of Asia to resur-
rect the glories of their ancient continent.
There is no need to worry so long as
they hold meetings. The Oriental loves
orating and listening to others doing it,
but he does it rather for pleasure than
with purpose. It is when he sud-
denly becomes silent that he is dangerous.
An old war-time naval non-com. used
to say to his boarding parties: “Don’t
worry if the coves shout at you, but if
they meet you with a shut mouth shove
a cutlass in it.”
Democracy continues to spread in Asia
while it loses ground in Europe. Ten
million Japanese women were recently
enfranchised, and now the Filipino
flapper is to get the vote. Miss Fili-
pino is the first woman of the Malay race
to be supplied with the convenience.
President Roosevelt has been advised
to establish monopolies in the fields of
communication under Government regu-
lation. Still, he can’t prevent Jones com-
municating his views on Roosevelt to
Smith over a pot.
Roosevelt’s signature to the agreement
with Russia was scarcely blotted ere pro-
tests began to drop on to his table. Said
one commercial authority:
Why should we lend money to Russia to
buy our goods? We did considerable of that
kind of thing to nations that had a better
reputation than Russia. We are unable to
collect from them and have made enemies of
the borrowing nations.
Fifty thousand business concerns and
1,000,000 employees “respectfully re-
quested” the President to consider the
depressed condition of industries and not
open the door to a flood of cheap Soviet
goods. The President “promised to con-
sider the representations.”
From “Miluikoff,” or some name like
that:
All is not quiet on the Communist front
in Sydney. Every time the annual conference
is drawing near 'the comrades wrangle as to
who will be the little Lenin for the coming
year. Garden was the first; then came Kav-
anagh and then Moxon. This year a Queens-
lander has been ruling the revolutionary roost.
He has had to deal with a breakaway. There
are paid positions, and one of the successful
ones will have a free trip to Moscow. Nearly
all the comrades want to be paid and to go
to Moscow on the cheap.


"Vll lav YOU a. MONKEY to A. CIQAR BUTT,
Fitzbroke. I don't eeTMv quota. .
* That's, Jinks, who's bin elected -to the
hSJper'OuU. An'Ws^d
'CEPT IK RJJMKIKI' PUBS.'
0 v/ots a bloke wamt vsjith eioPETßieNce
vn'em 'es c;ot douqm "?■ "
The Peer \mho Disreg,ar.d£D the Carlton Club Ticket .
n a. primary, AKtzcH, /AMO 111. e,er
State aided Cathedrau, see ie I oomt.
'/ _ "
They havs, secured their. Quotas ,
( D/£aILT DRJVELUE.R PHOTO)
DOING IT THE SYDNEY WAY.
“It is proposed to reform the House of Lords by choosing 300 legislators by ballot in both Houses of Parliament”.


SHELL
mW
turn
r:
i cr- v! '
PS&
SRJ
A'
m
/Q
v.)
■3
N
-Pv*'
I've heardall that before
bllL/rn back on
SHELL
Ofie Qua/ifif Spirit of Australia .. and of the lYoricf.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some January birthdays:
Knight Geo. Fairbairn (Vic.), 79, and Maj.-
Gen. Chas. Rosenthal (Syd.), 59, on Ist; Prof.
Gilbert Murray, 68, Premier Stevens (N.S.W.),
45, A. D. McGill, K.C. (Brisbane), 48, and
C’wealth Meteorologist Watts, 58, on 2nd; F.
G. Menzies (Vic. Crown Solicitor), 42, and
W.A. Senator Carroll, 62, on 3rd; R.
H. Croll (Vic. Educ. Dept.), 65, and
Judge Lukin (Federal Bankruptcy Court),
66, on 4th; Bishop Newton (New Guinea),
68, on 5 th; Archbishop Clune (Perth),
70, N.S.W. Aud.-Gen. John Spence, 56, pas-
toralist Edmund Jowett (Melb.), 76, and Prof.
H. Tasman Lovell (Syd.), 56, on 6th; knight
Graham Waddell, 57, bird-artist Neville Cayley,
47, and W. J. Hutchinson, M.H.R. (Indi), 30,
on 7th; • Alex. Hay (Coolangatta, N.S.W.), 69,
on Bth; artist Sydney Ure Smith, 47, and Canon
Crotty (Melb.), 55, on 9th; Bishop Batty (New-
castle), 55, on 10th; W.A. Senator Johnston,
54, on 11th; Vic. Taxation Commissioner
Chenoweth, 48, Prof. Walter Howchin (Adel.),
89, and knight John Melrose (Adel.), 74, on
12th; Archbishop Spence (Adel.), 74, Prof,
knight D. Orme Masson (Melb.), 76, and Prof.
H. G. Chapman (Syd.), 55, on 13th; Defence
Minister Geo. Pearce, 64, on 14th; shipowner
W. A. Mackay, 51, geologist W. G. Wool-
nough (N.S.W.), 58, medico E. Angas Johnson
(Adel.), 61, and J. H. Starling (P.M.’s Dept.,
Canberra), 51, on 15th; S.A.-born violinist
Daisy Kennedy, and Brig.-Gen. C. H. Foott, 58,
on 16th; E. J. Mulvany (Dept, of Commerce,
Canberra), 63, on 17th; knight Clifton Love
(Svd.), 66, on 18th; platypus-authority Harry
Burrell, 61, and Brig.-Gen. J. Campbell Stewart,
50, on 19th; K. R. Cramp (N.S.W. Educ.
Dept.), 56, and Justice Webb (Q’land), 47, on
21st; former N.S.W. Premier Geo. Fuller, 73,
and Maj.-Gen. J. M. Arnott, 65, on 22nd;
Prof. F. Wood-Jones (Melb’), 55, on 23rd; Vic.
Police Commissioner Maj.-Gen. Blarney, 50, ex-
Q’land Agent-. Gen. E. H. Macartney, 71, Prof.
J. F. M. Haydon (Canberra), 52, Bishop-co-
adjutor Kirkby (Syd.), 55, and Ethel Turner,
on 24th; W.A. Country party leader C. G.
Latham, 52, S. E. Lamb, K.C. (Syd.), 70, and
Oscar Asche, 62, on 26fh; painter Julian Ash-
ton, 83, and Prof. F. W. Cumbrae-Stewart
(Brisbane), 69, on 27th; Justice Kenneth Street
(N.S.W.), 44, Bishop Feetham (North Q’land),
61, Baronet Hugh Poynter (Syd.), 52, A. Gren-
fell Price, M.A. (St. Mark’s Coll., Adel.), 42,
and G. B. Rolph (Launceston “Examiner”), 41,
on 28th; Bishop Norton (Bathurst), 43, E. L.
Frazer (Vic. Parliamentary Library), 42, weather-
prophet Mares (N.S.W.), 55, A. S. Le Souef
(Director of Taronga Park), 57, and Prof. C.
A. Scutt (Melb.), 45, on 30th; ex-Gov.-Gen.
Forster, 68, Australian baritone Peter Dawson,
52, Guy Innes (Melb. “Herald,” Lon.), 52,
Judge Moule (Vic.), 75, J. S. Purdy (Sydney
Health Officer), 62, and Dr. R. J. Tillyard
(Chief Commonwealth Entomologist), 53, on
31st.
Alex. Drummond is secretary at the
head office in Sydney of the great enter-
ALEX. DRUMMOND (from Perth),
secretary of Philips’ Lamps, Sydney.
prise known as Philips’ Lamps. He comes
of an illustrious Scottish family, one
branch of which —Lord Strathallan’s —had
a close link with Australia a century ago.
The lord of that date, a descendant of
the financier of Bonnie Prince Charlie’s
rebellion, was one of the closest friends
of Lachlan Macquarie and inherited part
of his estate and his journals and docu-
ments after the death of Macquarie’s son.
Drummond hails from Perth, was edu-
cated at Perth Academy and Cambridge,
laughed his way into Australia and exer-
cised his right as an exiled protagonist
of the Stuart cause to a refuge and pros-
perity at Dutch expense, remembering,
of course, that even the head of Clan
Mackay these days is a Dutchman. He
has grown with his firm as it has ex-
panded to its present gigantic size. There
is no prize for guessing his hobby. He
was born about three good drives and
a short mashie shot over the hills from
St. Andrews.
Alex. Hunt’s greatest assets are his
smile and his steadfastness. An Illa-
warran, bom among cattle, he emigrated
to Queensland and went into business as
A. M. HUNT, of the Australian Illawarra
Society.
a storekeeper and dairyman on Maleny,
one of the richest parts of the range
country which lies 50 miles or so north
of Brisbane. Maleny was then scrub.
To-day it isn’t, thanks to Hunt and his
kind. Quite early in the piece he began
to breed Illawarras from the choicest
South Coast blood. His genius for organi-
sation soon placed him in a position of
influence, and his quiet and conciliatory
manner did much to help the amalgama-
tion of the Illawarra and the Australian
Shorthorn bodies into a composite society
to promote the development of the Aus-
tralian national breed of dairy cows. He
has friends from one end of the continent
to the other.
Retiring after nearly 40 years in the
head office of Elder Smith and Co. at
Adelaide is R. J. Rutherford. He learned
the office side of pastoral work with the
long-ago firm of Ryan and Hammond
in Melbourne, and the outdoor side in
seven years as a youngster on the
Lachlan.
Trinity College, in Melbourne Univer-
sity, has appointed a very young “Dean”
in L. C. Wilcher, now at Oxford. He
was S.A. Rhodes scholar in 1930, and
has since acquired (1) the B.Litt. degree
with a thesis on Commonwealth Federa-
tion, (2) captaincy of the Balliol XI,
(3) a seat in the college boat, (4) a
fiancee with a titled father.
For the first time in history Australia
has an Australian-born peer as a State
Governor in Vanneck, Lord Hunting-
field, who comes to sign bills in Victoria.
He belongs to one of the most cosmopo-
litan families in the peerage. They origi-
nally were Dutchmen. The ancestor of
the present holder of the title was an
East India merchant in the City of Lon-
don who received a baronetcy from
George 11. The third baronet, son
of the paymaster to the Dutch army,
received an Irish peerage in 1796. Two
grandsons in the direct line came to
Queensland in the middle of last century
and joined the band of unmoneyed heirs
and younger sons —Hodgsons, Eliotts,
Russells, Moretons, Mackenzies and
Hopes and others—who made the Darl-
ing Downs and Lockyer directory read
like a museum catalogue of the peerage
and county families. The new Governor
is a son of the fourth baron, who suc-
ceeded to the title after leaving Australia,
and of a daughter of William Armstrong,
a Toowoomba surgeon. An uncle, W.
A. Armstrong, for many years was
Speaker of the Queensland Legislative
Assembly. A second of the Armstrong
daughters married another Vanneck
brother and survives along with two
sisters of the immigrants.
The new Vic. Governor rejoices in the
family names of William Arcedeckne.
He has held Ministerial private secretary-
ships and for six years was M.P. for the
Eye division of East Suffolk. His seat is at
Salisbury, of which a son of the first
N.S.W. Premier, Donaldson, is bishop.
He is a retiring, businesslike person and
well lined with pelf.
James McCreadie, who died suddenly
the other day at Roseville (N.S.W.), was
one of the best-known men in the Pacific.
As secretary of Lever Brothers, he had
seen the development of the great copra
trade which grew up in the islands during
the past generation. Originally he was in
the insurance business, having come to
Sydney at 15 years old after a Glasgow
education. He joined Levers in 1898. It
was a small firm then in Australia, where
it had not begun to manufacture. He
grew with it, but this did not restrict his
public activities. His devotion to the
Presbyterian Church was no mere lip
service—for 27 years he was a deacon of
St. Stephen’s in Sydney. He was a Past
Grand D.I.W. and a Past Deputy-G.M.
of the Grand Mark Lodge of Freemasons
and a councillor of the Highland
Society.
The retirement of H. Tomkys removes
one of the most noted Queensland
schoolmasters. Staffordshire was his
native, county, and, coming to Aus-
tralia in 1890 with a first-class Teachers’
H. TOMKYS, a great Queensland
headmaster.
College certificate, he became the first
teacher of physics and chemistry in the
northern State schools. He worked as
assistant at the Rockhampton Boys’ Cen-
tral School; then was head at Beau-
desert, Rockhampton, Richmond Hill
(Charters Towers), Mt. Morgan High and
Mt. Morgan Intermediate. Tomkys was
a remarkable teacher. Behind his rather
austere eyes there was always a little
twinkle ready to shine out, and he was
specially successful as a coach. One year
his pupils from Rockhampton won a
third of the State-school scholarships.
From time to time he contributed papers
which were read at meetings of the Aus-
tralasian Association for the Advance-
ment of Science. From 1907 onwards he
was in command of the Central Queens-
land junior cadets.
Nobody can call Eric Sydney Spooner
“little by little.” If his early political
E. S. SPOONER, Assistant-Treasurer of
N. S. Wales.
demise were likely he might better be nick-
named the Solomon Grundy of politics,
so rapid has been his advance. Educated
at Christ Church St. Laurence School,
in Sydney, and Sydney Uni., he began
practice as an accountant in Orange and
removed to Sydney after the war. In
1932, with one of the most solid account-
ing businesses in Sydney, he won the Ryde
seat and became Assistant-Treasurer and
Minister for Local Government. At once
he retired from his firm, making a big
financial sacrifice, and he has since spent
his time in unravelling Governmental
tangles. Spooner is as sudden in action as
he is in getting promotion, as more than
one loosely managed council has learnt
to its cost. Old politicians find him as
disconcerting as do the councils, for,
never having had time to learn political
wiles, he has a habit of running his office
like a business, which is pleasant to the
weary public, but painfully galling to the
professional logroller. He is only 42.
Dr. Gerhard von Keussler, who steps
into the late Allen Bindley’s shoes as
musical director of St. Patrick’s Cathe-
dral, Melbourne, was a considerable time
in Victoria before the cognoscenti heard
of him. Then he conducted a symphony
concert at 3LO which earned surprised
superlatives from the critics, and this was
followed by a performance in Sydney.
His masterly conducting of Mozart’s
Requiem at St. Peter’s brought a demand
for an encore from those who heard it
and roused the interest of the R.C. hier-
archy. Von Keussler —a Protestant, by
the way—hails from Prague, where he
directed a leading philharmonic choir.
He has written numerous works, and in
1927 won the Beethoven prize.
The Chair of Education at Melb. Uni-
versity is to be filled by G. S. Browne.
Browne, now vice-principal of the
Teachers’ Training College, is a Digger,
and has travelled the world in search of
wrinkles. He once organised a symposium
to discover what Victorian children read.
The result must have been disconcerting ;
where the facilities for acquiring the
higher education were most prevalent
the authors favored were Edgar Wallace
and the latest contributor to American
film scenarios. In the country the
classics were preferred.


At the Theatre
L'W
n
X/AY
55<*
/V\
si/ wm
x/
\N
Y/
k
Ss**;.
k
r~r*
v Nr;
\
.' 'Y u
\\
> \
■ | W'
\ i
i
t
\ X..;-;-"V )
/
J
A brilliant act is over ... the moment arriVes for exchange of opinions ... and
a refreshing cigarette. What cigarette will! be offered and smoked ?
Glance round and note in how many choice will be Country Life. . .
the "correct" cigarette . . . the acmej of luxurious smoke-pleasure ... its frag-
rance preserved in tins . . . British Viscacelle ... a delight to those
even to whom luxury is not unusual.
THE ONLY SHILLING TIN JOF
Packed only in wrapped tins: 14—I /j-\ 21-4-1/6
also 100 and l;50 sizes.
CIGARETTES
. Flat and Round 50's • • •
als
LOUN
//
THE BETTER CIGARETTE
u
m.
foSsl-H-5
If it’s
"Country Life"
... it’s Correct


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
National Mutual Life Association
Ex- Writ- Addedto
Sept., Income. Claims, penses.* ten Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1924.. 3,260,737 1,460,483 303,336 1,496,918
New York Life business taken over.
1925.. 4,278,979 1,704,680 332,209 6899 2,235,191
Added to Investment Reserve, £8779.
1926.. 4,080,629 1,755,060 350,363 1,975,206
Added to Investment Reserve, £7123.
1927.. 4,378,799 1,882,250 372,850 2,123,699
Added to Investment Reserve, £7226.
1928.. 4,930,596 2,075,058 414,361 2,441,177
Added to Investment Reserve, £7898.
1929.. 4,941,130 2,098,781 447,084 2,400,265
Added to Investment Reserve, £31,222.
1930.. 4,983,877 2,559,111 450,974 1,973,792
Added to Investment Reserve, £8299.
1931.. 4,755,450 3,317,599 400,804 1,037,047
Added to Investment Reserve, £7OOB.
1932.. 4,477,015 3,030,862 393,708 1,052,445
Added to Investment Reserve, £16,091.
1933.. 4,662,815 3,043,709 404,214 1,214,892
*Excluding income tax.
This one of Australia’s five big mutual
life offices continues to disclose satisfac-
tory results in all those matters upon
which soundness and progress depend.
It gathers nearly half its income outside
Australia—from Maoriland, S. Africa,
Gt. Britain, Ireland, India and the Straits
Settlements. At Sept. 30 the business in
force (£85,559,573) was £1,380,236 greater
than it was a year earlier. Surrenders for
the twelvemonth (£695,675) were £58,244
lighter, and an extra £1,027,784 of new
business was put on the books:
1929. 1932. 1933.
Policies .. . . 20,078 16,361 18,067
Amount .. .. £9,868,350 £6,549,661 £7,577,445
Av. per policy . . 479 400 418
First premiums . . .356,253 219,478 236,404
Renewals .. . . 2,660,690 2,885,917 2,875,329
Single premiums.. 338,637 40,369 69,581
Annuities . . . . 54,014 45,803 122,610
Interest, etc. . . 1,608,616 1,352,352 1,424,508
Excluding income tax (£292,091, down
£60,307), and assuming that single pre-
miums (up £29,212) cost 5 p.c., and con-
sideration for annuities (up £76,807) 3
p.c., the balance of the year’s exes, took
12.7 p.c. of the premium income as
against 12.5 p.c. in ’32. The amount
allowed by the actuary for exes, and
profits at the last triennial valuation
(Sept. 30, 1931) was 15.3 p.c. Again
making the allowances referred to, and
assuming that new business is 10 times
more expensive than old, the year’s first
premiums cost 75.8 p.c. as against 76.8
p.c. in ’32.
Reversionary bonuses allotted at last
valuation on whole-of-life policies under
table 1 ranged from 445. p.c. on contracts
only one year in force to £4 p.c. on those
35 years old or more.
Owing to interest-reduction legislation
and the growth in taxation, the net in-
terest earned on the mean assurance
fund fell from £5 6s. lid. p.c. in 1930
to £3 19s. lid. p.c. last term, when the
gain was Is. lid. p.c. But in 1928 the
co. lowered the rate which it assumes the
fund will earn from p.c. to 3 p.c.; so
there is still a margin of approximately
£1 p.c. available for bonuses from this
quarter. With the reduction in taxation,
this margin should widen.
At Sept. 30 there was an investment
fluctuation reserve of £776,244, into which
£16,091 dropped from somewhere during
the year, to support and assist the assur-
ance fund of £36,243,175. Including the
superannuation fund (£54,932), the
amount coming to sundry creditors was
£527,995. The lot was invested in this
way:
t 1932 v 1933
£ p.c. £ p.c.
Freeholds .. . . 1,605,283 4.4 1,661,219 4.4
Public securities.. 15,145,537 41.8 16,410,822 43.7
Mortgages . . 8,883,210 24.5 8,780,107 23.4
Foreclosures .. 355,782 1.0 327,825 0.9
Loans on policies . . 5,858,859 16.2 5,831,647 15.5
Other assets .. 4,404,650 12.1 4,535,794 12.1
The year’s excess of incomings over out-
goings (£1,214,892) and more besides went
mostly into Government securities, up
£1,265,285. Mortgages were reduced by
£103,103.
The co. was formed by Colonel
Templeton 65 years ago. It missed the
industrial ’bus, but its growth was
hastened by blocks of ready-made busi-
ness taken over from the Equitable and
New York Life, and by the attention
given to probate, group and other
insurance. '
Amalgamated Textiles (Aus.), Ltd.
After a 10-year wait and loss of one-
third of their capital, shareholders have
come into the picture with a 5 p.c. div.,
and prospects are more encouraging than
they have ever been. The jettisoning of
£156,105 of capital in 1929 purged the
accounts of £87,160 of accumulated losses
and preliminary exes.; the other £68,945
was used to wipe out the holding in
W.A. Woollen Mills (£10,000) and write
down the book value of premises and
plant (they were bought when prices were
at their peak), thus lightening the charge
for depreciation. More important still,
the tariff and exchange provided the in-
dustry with fresh opportunities, and the
cut in the N. S. Wales basic wage helped,
too.
So, despite a quickening of imports and
the fact that N. S. Wales works a 44-
hour week as against 48 hours in Vic.,
the co. showed £29,120 more gross profit
(£43,815) for the year to Sept. 30. Exes.
(£22,047, including £3OOO reserved for
bad debts and £4400 for the taxgatherer)
took £6014 of the increase, leaving
£21,768 of profit (= 7.4 p.c. on capital)
as against losses of £1338, £5218 and
£514 for the three preceding terms. The
div. called for £14,687, and the other
£7OBl lifted reserves £7134 in excess of
the goodwill item (£10,517).
The financial position improved:
1929. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £449,481 £293,426 £293,739 £293,739
Overdraft .. 69,625 58,877 63,660 43,775
Sundry creditors 11,161 17,533 19,682 11,331
Freeholds .. 96,123 81,778 82,022 82,773
Plant, etc. . . 223,808 120,559 113,212 106,634
Fittings .. 1,129 859 834 781
Stocks .. 119,571 143,823 133,722 135,186
Book debts . . 35,512 22,213 44,847 45,585
S'hares in other
cos. .. 10,000
Cash, etc. . . 2,503 2,243 2,497 4,107
Intangibles . . 81,240 10,517 10,517 10,517
The year’s surplus earnings plus the
allowance for depreciation, etc., enabled
£19,885 to be clipped off the overdraft,
£8351 off the amount coming to sundry
creditors, and £1464 to be added to stocks
and £l6lO to cash, etc. Including stocks,
the more or less liquid surplus was £32,048
stronger at £129,772. Fixed assets
(£189,407, down £5827) are reported in
first-class order —they consist chiefly of
mills at Albury, Orange and Goulburn.
As for the current term, the co. is well
stocked with raw materials bought at
“reasonable prices,” and orders are being
booked freely, the chairman says. Also,
a recent Federal award, which provides
for a 44-hour .week and a uniform rate
of wages in all States except Queensland,
has put this co. and other N. S. Wales
manufacturers on a better footing to
meet competition from Victoria.
After payment of the div., the pound
shares were covered by 20s. 6d. in net
tangibles, of which 7s. lOd. was surplus
liquids. The scrip is to be listed.
Adelaide Electric Supply Co., Ltd.
Nomi-
Net Ords. To Re- nal Re-
Aug., Profit.* Prefs. 12 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1924.. 170,131 81,877 60,000 28,254 372,129
1925.. 243,554 97,400 60,000 86,156 458,283
Loss on Grenfell-street plant, £321,737.. 136,546
1926. . 307,208 119,482 60,000 127,726 264,272
1927.. 338,879 134,952 60,000 143,927 408,199
1928.. 320,260 155,857 60,000 104,403 512,602
1929.. 366,261 166,406 60,000 139,855 652,457
Written off plant, £99,398 .. .. 553,059
1930.. 344,518 172,500 60,000 112,018 665,077
Written off plant, £20,146 .. .. 644,931
81 p.c.
1931.. 354,797 172,500 42,500 139,797 784,728
Written off plant, £67,906 .. .. 716,822
Transferred to suspense account, 1
£40,000 j- 100,747 817,569
1932.. 355,747 172,500 42,500 J
Written off plant. £205,042 .. .. 612,527
To suspense account, £40,000 f n„
1933.. 374,917 172,500 42,500 J 1 4
*lncludes provision for debenture sinking fund.
Cries are still heard against the co.,
which, according to the year-or-so-old
report of the committee appointed by
the Government to investigate its affairs,
is “efficiently managed, and conducted
with due regard to the obligations of a
co. holding a public franchise.” Broadly,
charges to the consumer are governed
by interest and divs. on the share and
borrowed capital, allowances for depreci-
ation, etc., and the cost of generation
and distribution. The share and deben-
ture capital is made up as follows:
Adelaide. London. Adelaide. London.
£ £ £ £
Pref. 6 p.c. 149,500 100,500 5 p.c. •- 49,979
„ 5 „ A 250,000 6 „ A 42,900
„ 8 „ B 249,450 550 7 i „ B 350,000
„ 64 „ C 578,046 421,954 5l „ C 929,874
P.Ord. Bp.c. 742,976 7,024 6 „ D 250,000
Ords. 491,417 8,583
Owing to rapid expansion during the
period of dear money, the share and
debenture capital combined is costing
the co. approximately 6.5 p.c., whereas
average interest paid on Government-
owned public utilities in Adelaide is
around 5 p.c. But it is very doubtful
whether consumers would get any relief
if the Government took the business
over ; for one thing, compensation would
have to be assessed on the basis of pre-
sent returns.
The £350,000 of 1\ p.c. B debentures
was repaid on Dec. 1. The saving in
interest will amount to £26,250 p.a., less
bank interest on the deposits involved.
Australian and English debenture-holders
have agreed to accept payment of prin-
cipal and interest in Australian and Eng-
lish legal tender respectively. Preference
stockholders, whether on the London or
Australian register, will be paid in Aus-
tralian currency, in accordance with the
recent decision of the House of Lords.
With exchange as it is, this means a sav-
ing of £14,819 p.a. to the co.
Touching depreciation, the co. makes
no specific allowance under this head. For
the 26 years to the close of accounts
in 1931, allowances for sinking funds,
etc., averaged 2.14 p.c. on capital; the
amount actually written off was £482,599,
to which another £205,042 was added
last year, chiefly on account of obsoles-
cence.
Trading figures compare as follows:
1922. 1932. 1933.
Gross revenue .. .. £372,466 £750,136 £779,878
Operating exes. & taxes 215,924 289,772 315,439
Net revenue .. .. £156,542 £460,364 £464,439
Last term an extra 8.2 million Kelvins
were sold, of which 5.5 million were for
industrial purposes. After deducting
debenture interest and allowing for re-
serve adjustments, there was £159,917
more than the pref. divs. and 8£ p.c. to
the ords. called for. Legal exes., etc., in
connection with the currency question,
threaten to swallow most of the £64,286
in the suspense account.
During the year £76,069 was spent on
fixed assets, and £205,042 was written off,
leaving their net book value at £4,825,391.
To meet £47,929 coming to creditors and
the repayment of debenture capital
already referred to, there were stores
(£91,653), book debts (£125,185), cash
(£441,252) and investments (£132,344),
totalling £790,434.
On the market the prefs. are priced
to yield about 4£ p.c. The ords. at 38s.
lOd. return 4.4 p.c. on an Bjr p.c. div.
basis.
Carlton Hotel, Ltd. (Sydney)
t Dividends Towards Nomi-
Net Pref. Re- nal Re-
Oet., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1923.. 5,111 1600 7 p.c. = 4200 7*42
1924.. 3,118 1600 Nil 1518 2,260
1925.. 7,631 1600 9 p.c. = 5400 631 2,891
1926.. 9,706 1000 10 „ „ 6000 2106 4,997
1927.. 10,675 1600 10 „ „ 6000 3075 8,072
1928.. 12,006 1600 124 ~ „ 7500 2906 10,978
1929.. 13,172 1600 15 „ „ 9000 2572 13,550
1930.. 5,727 Nil Nil 5727 19,277
Loss.
1931.. 876 Nil Nil 18,401
Profit.
1932.. 4,169 Nil Nil 4109 22,570
1933.. 8,063 5229 7 p.c. = 4200 21,194
After a four years’ wait, the prefs.’ slate
has been cleaned and the ords. have come
into the picture again with a 7 p.c. div.
Moreover, the business continues to im-
prove, the chairman says. The co. has
done remarkably well, considering that
the amount of outside money at risk in
the business (£115,946, down £25,885
during the year) was still £14,752 in ex-
cess of shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) at Oct. 31 —that
leaves out of the figuring £23,824 of
specific reserves, of which £21,347 was
for depreciation, etc. The co. went into
debt mainly to finance the purchase of
the freehold (£75,000 was the price men-
tioned) and make improvements to the
premises just before the boom burst.
Including an unspecified amount of
goodwill, assets are all lumped in one
untidy entry at £250,394, down £17,450.
The spring in the year’s gross earn-
ings (£39,983) was £4183. Exes. (£31,930,
including £2200 set aside for the tax-
gatherer and £2508 for depreciation) took
only £299 of the increase, leaving enough
to pay a year’s pref. div. and then show
11.3 p.c. on ord. capital. Allowing for
the statutory cut, the prefs. at 235. 6d.
return 5.2 p.c. They advance with the
ords. beyond 6.2 p.c. to their original
contract rate. The net asset cover is
£6 2s. 6d. per share, subject to goodwill,
etc.
It all looks very encouraging for share-
holders in Carlton Investments, Ltd.
though the outside debt continues to
overshadow the position. The hotel co.’s
£BO,OOO of capital is in 20,000 8 p.c. prefs.
and 60,000 ords. In 1929 the ords., or all
but a handful of them, were exchanged
for scrip (one pref. and two ords.) in the
investment co., which has a paid capital
of £139,728 in 69,864 fully-paid 7 p.c.
prefs. and 139,735 ords. paid to 10s. each
—it also owns the 10,000 ords. in the
Eneber Investment Co., which is inter-
ested in hotel properties. So to pay its
own pref. div. and 5 p.c. on its paid-up
ord. capital, Carlton Investments would
need to receive over 10 p.c. on the face
value of its holdings. There was £14,824
in accrued divs. coming to the prefs.
at Oct. 31. The board expects to make
a substantial reduction in these arrears
during the current term.
The market prices the prefs. at 16s.
6d. and the ords. at 6s. 6d.
Cash Orders (Amalgamated), Ltd. (Syd.)
Net , Dividends N Towards De-
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord, Reserves, ficit.
£ £ £ £
Goodwill and preliminary exes. .. 8,096
1927.. 699 10 p.e. 8 p.c. = 644 35 8,061
Added intangibles, £7547 .. .. 15,605
Forfeited share reserve, £406 .. 15,202
1928.. 5,690 10 p.c. 8 p.c. = 3647 2043 13,159
1929.. 8,365 10 „ 8 „ „ 8327 38 13,121
Written off, £165 .. .. .. 12,956
Loss.
1930.. 38,980 Nil Nil 51,936
June,
1931*. 8,901 Nil Nil 60,837
Profit.
1932.. 2,504 Nil Nil 58,333
Investments written down, £13,552.. 71,885
Reserves.
Capital written off, £74,289 .. 2,404
1933.. 5,795 374 p.c. Nil 4660 1135 3,535
*Nine months.
For the investor the chief lesson to be
learnt from that table is the importance
of management. The co. joined in the
scramble to provide the public with
credit on the “pay as you earn” principle
about seven years ago, when the scatter-
ing of loan money created a hunger for
the things we hadn’t got and an eagerness
to borrow to buy them v To secure a foot-
ing a policy of absorptions and amalga-
mations was adopted, and there was some
early window-dressing in order to coax
capital. Following changes in the con-
trol and an investigation of the co.’s
affairs, a loss of £38,980 showed up in
1930 —£7434 of it was ascribed to the
year’s trading, and the balance to bad
debts, etc., dating back to the beginning.
Though hard times reduced turnover
and brought more bad debts, the co. had
been placed in a position to make pro-
gress as soon as the tide turned. Thus a
profit of £2504 in ’32 was followed by
another of £5795 for the last term, when
the prefs. were handed p.c. (£4660),
cleaning their slate to date. To rub out
a p. and 1. debit of £46,706 at the middle
of 1931, together with £14,031 of good-
will and preliminary exes, and strike
£13,552 off the book value of investments,
Bs. per share (£74,289) has been lopped
off the ords?, reducing paid capital to
£101,419, of which £14,015 carries a
cumulative 10 p.c. less 22y p.c. statutory
cut. The road has been thus cleared
for resumption of ord. divs., and the
whole of the share capital and £3535
besides was intact at June 30 last. The
£5795 netted for the 12 months to that
date was enough to cover a year’s pref.
requirements and show 5.3 p.c. on
£87,404 of ord. capital as well.
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances:
IQOQ IQ9I IQQO 1 099
. Paid capital. . £137,875 £171,760 £173,720 £101,419
Liabilities . . 15,127 10,500 19,491 23,456
Equipment . . 2,885 4,240 4,603 5,043
Investments . . 32,408 33,295 33,295 19,743
Book debts . . 106,736 82,563 96,080 107,213
Cash, etc. . . 2,571 1,331 1,255 1,429
The year’s growth of £11,133 in debtors’
balances and of £3965 in outside liabili-
ties suggests that business was better.
Excluding investments, the more or less
liquid surplus (£85,186) was £7342
stronger than at the previous balance.
The net tangible cover is £7 9s. 9d.
prefs., and 20s. lOd. per pound of paid-
up ord. capital.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1923.. 17,736 10 p.c. = 7500 10,236 27,341
1924.. 14,123 10 „ „ 7500 6,623 33,964
1925.. 14,307 124 „ „ 9375 4,932 38,896
1926.. 13,913 124,, „ 9375 4,538 43,434
1927.. 12,980 124 „ „ 9375 3,605 47,039
Brisbane preliminary exes., £6lO 46,429
1928.. 11,376 124 p.c. = 9375 2,001 48,430
Reserves capitalised, £12,500 .. 35,930
Premiums on new shares, £60.. 35,990
1929.. 10,437 10 p.c. = 7710 2,727 38,717
1930.. 3,106 Nil 3,106 41,823
1931.. 3,640 4 p.c. = 4000 41,463
1932.. 6,728 5 „ „ 5000 1,728 43,191
1933.. 7,197 6 „ „ 6000 1,197 44,388
This little concern specialises in all kinds
of commercial stationery and office
requisites, and its business is well spread
throughout the Commonwealth. For
the dozen years to the close of accounts
in 1929, it paid a steady 10 p.c. div., to
which a 2i p.c. bonus was added when
things were going extra well. Then, with
the sudden change in conditions, the
1930 profit fell to less than one-third of
the ’29 figure, and for the first time since
1910, when the public became interested,
shareholders went without. Also, the
Brisbane branch had been more of a
hindrance than a help, and £12,500 had
been transferred from reserves to capital
in ’2B to pay 10s. on each of 25,000 new
£1 shares.
With the upward trend in the retail
trade there has been a better demand
for the co.’s dockets and other requisites,
costs have been reduced, the Brisbane
business has been put on a more secure
footing, and the co.’s figures continue
to improve. Last term gross earnings
(£34,493) were £1950 better; exes.
(£27,296) advanced £l6Ol, leaving the
net result at 7.1 p.c. on capital as against
6.7, 3.6, 3.1, 13.5, 15.1 and 17.3 p.c. back
to 1927. The div. was lifted another
point, making it 6 p.c.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1930. 1931. 1932. 1933
Paid capital .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Liabilities . . 13,619 21,931 9,746 9,025
Premises .. 41,826 41,858 41,875 42,054
Plant, etc. . . 45,074 42,194 39,656 43,094
Stock. . . . 29,701 26,994 31,861 33,256
Book debts . . 24,734 21,813 19,861 21,204
Cash & sundries 1,565 21,955 12,184 7^lBo
Shares other cos. 17,500 17,500 17,500 17,500
To add £3617 to the book value of fixed
assets and carry an extra £1395 of stocks
and £1343 of debtors’ balances, cash, etc.,
was drawn upon for £5004. The share-
holding is in the Westralian subsidiary,
which paid 6 p.c. last year, the same as
in the previous year.
The pound shares, covered by 28s. lOd.
in net tangibles, fetch 275. in the market
as against 10s. two years ago. At the
higher figure the return is 4.4 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis. ,
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 18 .)


T. and Gt*
MUTUAL LIFE SOCIETY
The Balance-sheet and Report for 1933, presented to Members at the Annual
Meeting of the Society on the 15th December,
SHOW THE FOLLOWING REMARKABLE RESULTS:—
1913
1923
1933
INCOME
£463,280
£1,889,028
£3,893,240
1913
1923
1933
NEW BUSINESS
(Excluding Accident Department)
£2,490,076
£8,921,469
£11,513,452
ASSETS
1913
1923
1933
£1,584,400
£6,708,043
£19,278,719
ASSURANCES IN FORCE
1913
1923
1933
£8,010,754
£28,914,222
£56,990,803
The T. and G. Mutual Life Society is one of the Strongest and one
of the most Progressive Life Offices in the British Empire
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited.
J. T. THOMPSON, Esq., Chairman.
e. McDonald, Esq.
DIRECTORS:
P. R. SUTHERLAND, Esq.
W. FORSTER WOODS, Esq.
A. R. STEWART, Esq.
Col. C. E. MERRETT, C.8.E., V.D.


Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try LEMPRIERE & CO., Collins House,
Melbourne, when selling Ores, Metals, Scrap, or buy-
ing Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys.— Advt.
* * *
ASSAYS.
Heath and Associates, 405 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Special facilities for handling large batches of
samples expeditiously under highly qualified assayer.
Advt.
* * * *
THE ROAD TO NET PROFIT. The path to more
net profit lies in the proper functioning of finance,
production and merchandising. Our staff of sales
consultants, engineers and cost analysts is equipped
to investigate and reorganise these fundamentals of
business. Consultation incurs no obligation. B. V.
Heath and Associates, 405 Collins Street,i Melbourne,
C.l. — Advt.
Inf'll ri The Metallurgical Works of
A VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
PTY„ LTD., at BENDIGO are specially
equipped for the treatment of REFRAC-
TORY GOLD ORES and CONCEN-
TRATES.
If you post a sample of the Ore or Con-
centrate which you have for sale, it will
be assayed for Gold content free of cost,
and price submitted.
5*
m
<SBm
m
m*.
'
axos
His the task of
PROTECTING
THERE is joy in being the head of a family, and
the joy is the greater if a man can tell himself that
the financial future of his family is assured through
the A.M.P. He has played a man’s part, and he has
the satisfaction of knowing that he could not invest his
savings (small or large) to better advantage anywhere.
Adequate assurance calls for only a small regular
saving. A man can have an A.M.P. whole-life policy
for £5OO for an investment equal to a few shillings a
week, and that is an excellent start for any man to
make. It is not enough, of course, but it is a good be-
ginning. The £5OO will grow with bonuses (in the past,
bonuses have often more than doubled the value), and,
as his earnings increase, he can take out another £5OO,
and another, until his family is adequately protected.
Send for a free copy of ‘‘lnvesting in Happiness,” a
book that tells how men can meet their obligations and
look the world in the eye.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A., General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., Chief Inspector and Secretary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
Share in the 1933 Bonus
Ordinary Department Participating Policies effected
before December 31 share in 1933 Bonus
Mt. Isa
The board has decided to reopen the
mine early in the new year, and that
means much not only at Isa itself but
to the people at Townsville, the Gov-
ernment railways, the State coke ovens
at Bowen and the coalminers at Collins-
ville, as well as wholesalers, etc., in
Brisbane. Operations ceased at the be-
ginning of November, when the men
stopped work following suspension of
two of their number for infringement of
the firing regulations. There were then
ever 1400 names on the payroll, and the
weekly distribution exceeded £7OOO. A
week or so ago there were about 300
people left in the township, and 100 at
the mine property.
Meanwhile, the co., which is finding
it difficult to make ends meet with metal
prices as they are, applied to the Indus-
trial Court for a little further relief. This
the Court gave by reducing the basic
wage for the area by 3s. Bd. a week,
with provisipn for increases as the price
of lead advances. A similar provision
also exists in respect of railway
freights, etc., paid by the co. What the
future holds for Isa largely depends upon
the course of metal prices, and upon the
extent to which the co.’s American
friends continue to support it. For the
year to June 30, 1932, the published
accounts showed a loss of £37,818 ; actu-
ally expenditure exceeded revenue by
£326,000. The difference is explained by
the fact that “it was decided to debit
against the limited quantity of metal
produced only such an amount as was
estimated would be the expenditure per
ton under normal operations.” Produc-
tion costs (since reduced) were figured
at £2O per ton of bullion, assaying 99.5
p.c. lead and 52.70 z. silver. Last week-
end lead was fetching £ll 7s. 6d. per
ton in London, and silver was worth
Is. Bd. per fine ounce.
Oil Search, Ltd.
Oil Search, Ltd., has not yet been able
to give its shareholders a div. Still, for
thoroughness of investigation, no other
oil co. in Australia has ever equalled
the work done by this one. From an
enormous mass of data it has delimited
a closed structure suitable for accumula-
tion of oil on the Roma (Q.) field. It
is said that none of the wells previously
sunk around Roma was really favorably
situated. The co. therefore proposes to
test the new structure by deep drilling,
and a subsidiary, Drillers, Ltd., has been
registered in Canberra for the purpose.
Nominal capital is £250,000, and the
parent will underwrite a sufficient num-
ber of shares to ensure that the first hole
will be completed. The scrip will be
offered first to shareholders in Oil Search,
Roma Oil Corp. and Builders, Ltd. (in
liq.). The new co. will pay a nominal
rental for use of a well-equipped rotary
drilling plant, and casing is already being
pulled from existing holes preparatory
to a start with the real work being made.
Also, early in the new year Oil Search
will consider the question of test-boring
its New Guinea area, where investiga-
tions have gone on more or less con-
tinuously since 1928.
In Victoria, the co. is mapping the
surface geology around the edge of the
Gippsland basin. From this and sub-sur-
face data, it hopes to obtain a reliable
guide to structure in the deeper parts
of the basin, where scout-drilling will be
necessary.
Provided Golden Mile, Cracow (Q.),
can get its costs back to 225. a ton, all
ore above 4dwt. could be profitably
treated on the basis of an 85 p.c. re-
covery with gold at £6 or more per
ounce in London. Thus far extraction of
crudes has run off with 10s. per ton ;
crushing and recovery, 18s.; development
and administration, 55.; total, 335. In-
troduction of the Nicholl process is ex-
pected to lower mining and treatment
costs by 10s. per ton, and further savings
should follow alterations to the equip-
ment and the addition of a tube mill
to give an extra 50 p.c. plant capacity.
With plant as it is at the moment, the
chairman sees £25,000 of profit in the
six months’ feed which is ready.
* * * *
Mt. Coolon’s production figures com-
pare as follows for the four fort-
nightly periods to Dec. 12: —•
Oct. 31. Nov. 14. Nov. 28. Dec. 12.
'Ore, tons .. 2837 2823 2884 2897
Gold, fine oz. 1307 1997 1662 1332
Yield, dwt. .. 9.2 14.1 11.5 9.2
Exhaustion of the high-grade sands and
inclusion of development ore from No.
4 level were responsible for the drop in
the yield during the fortnight ended
Dec. 12. From the bottom of a winze
75ft. below No. 3 level the co. has driven
125 ft. in 31s. stone, with gold at £7 an
ounce (Australian currency). Investors
anxiously await the result of the diamond-
drilling campaign, upon which the future
of the mine depends.
* * * *
“Hos.”: This year Thane’s Creek bat-
tery, Warwick (Q.), crushed 495 tons for
280 oz. lOydwt. smelted gold, an average
of 11 l-3dwt. Principal suppliers were
the Guiding Star, 188 tons for 41oz.
18-|-dwt. (some 70 tons of this had been
dumped as mullock in the ’eighties);
Depression, tons for 61oz. 4dwt. ;
Deaf Cat, 58 tons for lOloz. 2|dwt.:
Big Hill, 27 tons for 260 z. lldwt.; New
Year, 14£ tons for 14oz. 2dwt. Also
over lOOoz. of alluvial has been dis-
covered in the Thane’s Creek area.
* * * *
R. Madgee, manager of Mt. Stormot
(Tas.), where there are large deposits of
bismuth, has discovered a pregmatite
lode of soft micaceous granite rock, vary-
ing from a few inches to 2ft. in width,
and carrying a high percentage (14.9) of
beryllium oxide. Beryllium itself is a
hard, brittle metal, dark grey in color and
capable of taking a fair polish. It is
much stronger and about 30 p.c. lighter
than aluminium. Recent developments
in the electrical industries and in avia-
tion promise to create a stronger demand
for beryllium. At the moment Germany
is the chief market, and the stuff is worth
about 600 marks per kilo.
* * * *
One of the old hands, who recently
wandered from Perth to Meekatharra
(W.A.), assures the “Wild Cat” that there
is tons of evidence that the West is
booming so far as gold-mining is con-
cerned. In Kalgoorlie the shops are full
of dry blowers, windlass parts, cowhide
buckets and all sorts of mining gear.
From Laverton men are setting out daily
by camel and motor-truck into new coun-
try. At the old Lancefield, five miles
north of Laverton, a plant which it is
hoped will rival Wiluna’s is being erected.
Laverton is very much like a goldfield of
the roaring days, with a big mixed popu-
lation ; but the police have the place well
under control. Gold is the only thing
talked about. At Cue, one battery has
been running 24 hours a day for the
last three years. This and camel carts
and motor-trucks carrying stone are indi-
cations that the game is very much alive.
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Corp. has a cash balance
of over half a million, and is practically
free of debt. Thus there is nothing to
hold back exploration of the northern
section of the co.’s big Westralian pro-
perty, which is tipped to hold further
large tonnages of payable ore, and may
therefore necessitate additions to plant
capacity, now 40,000 tons a month. Costs
for the 12 months to June 30 averaged
21s. per ton, including 2s. 6d. a ton
for development. Since the close of
accounts, costs have been reduced to an
average 18s. per ton, and it is doubt-
ful whether any other Australian gold-
mining show can show better. Chair-
man Hamilton says that the original esti-
mate of an 84 p.c. overall recovery will
ultimately be realised. Dividends do not
appear to be far distant.
* * * *
Dr. Loftus Hills says that the reef at
the Two Boys, Higginsville (W.A.), which
is being opened up by Wavic Gold De-
velopment, has been proved for a length
of 474 ft., and continues eastwards. Ore
exposed in the faces averages 10dwt.,
and values are expected to live at depth.
The five-head battery, now nearing com-
pletion, will handle up to 100 tons
weekly, and further development of the
reef may soon make a larger plant essen-
tial. With costs at 20s. a ton, and allow-
ing another ss. a ton for development,
there is a potential profit of about 30s.
a ton in approximately 40,000 tons of
stuff now measured up.
* * * *
Australian Mining Trust (Adelaide)
has taken an option at Gadd’s Hill, Mt.
Mulligan (N.Q.). The property contains
a number of parallel lodes, five of which
have been prospected to shallow depths
for values of from 7|dwt. to loz. 6dwt.
Two tunnels, about 400 ft. apart, are
being driven 150 ft. from the top of
the hill to cut the whole series.
* * * *
Associated Northern has granted Gold-
fields Australian Development an 18
months’ option over the Victorious, at
Ora Banda (W.A.). The purchase price
is £lO,OOO (sterling) plus a 15 p.c. share
interest in any company formed to work
the show, a minimum capital of £lOO,OOO
being stipulated. The option-holder is
to spend at least £2OO per month on the
show.
* * * *
Dr. Wade, who has been engaged
to make a further inspection of the prin-
cipal Westralian oil areas, has started on
10,000 square miles of country in the
Wooramel district in the nor’-west. Later
he will examine the Freney reservation
in the far north. Many still believe that
both localities will be oil-producing
some day.
sfc * * *
Gold Holdings, a Melbourne concern,
has taken a three months’ option over
450 acres of alluvial, including some free-
hold, at Stafford, near Hokitika, South
Island (M.L.). On bore results D. M.
Pettigrew figured that 136 acres of this
contained nearly 6,000,000 c.y. of 12.4 d.
dirt, with gold at 80s. an ounce, and
values are expected to improve upstream.
T. J. Shepherd was recently sent from
Victoria to test-bore the whole area. If
prospects are considered good enough,
a co. will be formed to work the show.
Vendors’ consideration is £5OOO cash and
25,000 fully-paid ss. shares.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.D.: The bonds are a long-term specula-
tion; impossible to say what you are likely to
get out of the venture, which is heavily capi-
talished... .A.N.T.: (1) Yes. (2) The co.
promises better things later on. (3) If you
have not yet received your div., write to the
secretary. (4) The board intends to list the
shares early in the new year J.A.H.: A
doubtful spec W.T.R.: They are all solid
concerns: policy-holders have no need to stay
awake o’ nights.


SHADOW SHOWS.
“A Passport to Paris,” at the Lyceum,
is one of the best things Elstree
has done in its line. The principals
are Ben Lyon and Sally Eilers, and
Lyon is delightful as an American who
goes on a bender in London and gets
mixed up in the affairs of a secret
society. However, nearly all the best
comedy is supplied by Britons.
Harry Tate appears in the early
sequences as a taxi-driver ; one of those
stolid slaves to duty who have won affec-
tion for the British working man all over
the world. His employer having been
trapped in a bedroom, he braves the
climb down to the street, and, after a
bitter argument with a policeman, drives
off, to return presently with a ladder. It
is character-acting as well as first-class
clowning.
For the rest of the show Lyon and
Sally Eilers travel about the Continent
pursued by the conspirators (three, satur-
nine young Englishmen and their for-
midable chief); get into trouble with the
German military authorities (the Teuton
martinet is startlingly realistic), and nar-
rowly escape being executed by a firing-
party. The action is fast, the settings
(in trains and so on) look like the real
thing, and much of the dialogue is bright
without being in any sense brainy.
“You Made Me Love You” is also a
credit to the British film industry. Thelma
Todd is the shrew, but her tamer is an
English comedian (Stanley Lupino) and
most of the other members of the big
cast are English. The laughs derive
rather from the catastrophic effects than
from the dialogue. In one sequence the
lady smashes practically everything
breakable in a mansion which outdoes
many a royal palace in splendor.
The audience, which wasn’t as big as the
programme deserved, had been worked up
to a state of high enthusiasm by this time.
Plainly Australians are eager to applaud
British films that are at all filmic. The
Lyceum bill suggests that Elstree only
has to get away from the dreary old
convention of the photographed comedy,
musical and otherwise, to give Hollywood
some severe jolts.
* * *
Marie Dressier, as the middle-aged
servant of “Her Sweetheart,” at the St.
James, Sydney, is so intent upon being
comical in an elephantine fashion that
she cheapens what might have been a
first-class film.
Based on a stage success, “The Late
Christopher Bean,” the Hollywood ver-
sion has not only been given a foolish
new title but its location has been
changed to America. Miss Dressier might
have been bearable if the producers
had kept her to the play’s script,
and not allowed her to roam off into ex-
traneous slapstick adventures. The runa-
way car and sleeping-berth interludes
are conspicuously superfluous.
Lionel Barrymore contributes a fine
study of a country doctor. He befriended
an artist who became famous 20 years
after his death. Barrymore’s bewilder-
ment when confronted by rival art dealers
who descend upon his humble residence
in search of paintings left behind by the
departed genius is masterly. The dis-
covery of the late Christopher Beanes
greatness, the frenzied search for his
previously despised paintings, the haggling
between the household and the dealers,
and the effort of the doctor’s family to
swindle Marie Dressier out of a Bean
portrait of herself—all are splendidly
done.
Instead of finishing with the effec-
tive denouement which ended the play
the producers have tagged on a farcical
tail. H. B. Warner, as an art critic, and
Jean Hersholt, as a cunning dealer, are
among those who help to compensate
for the Dressler’s misplaced clowning.
The first half of the St. James pro-
gramme is varied and entertaining. An
interesting Metrotone gazette, an amusing
Flip the Frog cartoon, a brief and color-
ful revue, and a glimpse of civilised Red
Indians playing a strenuous game which
resembles a cross between football,
hockey, lacrosse and a Donnybrook brawl
are among the items presented. There
is also a laughable Laurel and Hardy
comedy, wherein the two comedians in-
geniously play female roles as well as
their usual ones.
* * *
A recent issue of Squire’s London
“Mercury” said of “Yes, Mr. Brown”:
There is Jack Buchanan doing on the screen
the same things that English musical comedy
has been doing for years. He flaunts his
actors in front of the camera for long stretches
at a time, he has dull photography, and his
dialogue is a museum of outworn jokes.
Every word of it applies to Jack Hul-
bert’s “Love on Wheels,” at the Mayfair,
Sydney. Buchanan portrayed a counter-
jumper who relieved the tedium of a com-
mercial life with song and dance ; Hulbert
does the same. The only material differ-
ence is that, while Buchanan’s mammoth
store was supposed to be in Vienna, the
one that employs Hulbert has the Grecian
exterior of Selfridge’s in Oxford-street.
Edmund Gwenn is funny in spots as Hul-
bert’s boss, and he arouses a certain local
interest by his odd resemblance to Hugh
D. Mclntosh. Gordon Harker’s portrait
of a London ’bus conductor is also good.
The first half features a tedious pic-
ture of an air journey from Croydon to
Cape Town. Most of the photography
recalls the days when the films were
known colloquially as the flicks. There
is also a picture which purports to show
how Larwood bowled in Australia. Hen-
dren is the batsman. He first gives a
miserable exhibition of timidity and in-
competence, and then demonstrates that
for one of nerve and skill it is a simple
matter to clout bodyline bowling to all
parts of the compass. It would have
been more convincing as propaganda
if the batsman hadn’t been Hendren —
one of those who protested against body-
lining before Australia had a taste of it.
# # *
“Gambling Ship,” at the Capitol, Syd-
ney, is a gangster in which a gambler
(Arthur Vinton) runs his hell on a spacious
and lavishly decorated steamer anchored
SYDNEY FLICKS.
In “Love on Wheels” at Sydney May-
fair: (1) Jack Hulbert, (2) Gordon
Harker, (3) Edmund Gwenn.
some 200 yards from the shore. The
“square-shooting” proprietor (his own
description) keeps pickpockets and gun-
men on his staff, for he is subjected to
hi-jacking at the hands of a rival (Jack
La Rue). A gang leader from Chi. (Cary
Grant) who has made so much money
that he feels he can afford to retire from
the hazards of crime falls in with Vin-
ton’s fancy-woman (Benita Hume) and
finds she has yearnings for a nobler life.
After that there’s three-quarters of an
hour of derring-do by the gallant gang-
sters ; the superfluous Vinton is filled
full of lead, and Mr. Grant and Miss
Hume face a new and brighter dawn.
If Mr. Roosevelt were to use his pre-
sent large powers to make it a Federal
offence punishable by ten years for a
movie corporation to portray yeggs, dips,
cons and gat-artists as anything but what
they are, with life for any producer who
shows criminals and their female associ-
ates fading out in an odor of sanctity
to enjoy great riches acquired by murder,
the U.S.A. might have a less frightful
death-by-violence record.
“Olsen’s Big Moment” also deals with
gangsters, but in a Pickwickian way. El
Brendel is a half-witted Swedish janitor
who, by a series of fortunate coinci-
dences, prevents Walter Catlett (a scion
of the dollarocracy who is continually
drunk, but remains preternaturally
nimble) from marrying the heroine
(Barbara Weeks). Whether Miss Weeks
ought to be congratulated or otherwise
—the young man she does marry
appears to be mentally unhinged—isn’t
clear. Almost every comedy cliche con-
nected with the effects of booze is given
an airing in this farce, which is trimmed
with innumerable nude female legs.
* * *
“Ex-Lady,” at the Sydney Regent, aims
at pleasing sophisticated moderns and
old-fashioned sentimentalists and ends by
displeasing both. Bette Davis is a maga-
zine illustrator who pants for freedom.
Gene Raymond is an advertising expert
with a prejudice against companionate
marriage. After much squabbling Bette
gives in and agrees to make an honest
man of him. Rows follow. Gene takes
up with a married woman and is dis-
covered in her apartment by Bette. In
her jealousy Bette invites dishonorable
proposals from sundry men. But she
remains as pure as her husband through
it all, thus enabling them to come together
again for the fade-out. The principals
are uninspired, and the support is feeble.
Chefalo and his midgets monopolise
the other half.
Sundry Shows
While “Collit’s Inn,” at Mdb. Princess,
is the most meritorious and ambitious
specimen of its genus this Page has seen,
it has thick upon it those defects which
prevent Australian playwrights being Gib
berts to Australian Sullivans. The result is
an undoubted success of the theatre which
still will leave the discriminating playgoer
vaguely disgruntled. The raw material
is all there, but it remains relatively
underdone.
Why do the authors present Governor
Meade in terms of his own pomposity?
An English colonial official of the period
might have delivered a conventional
panegyric on the country and prophesied
a magnificent future for it; but what he
would probably have felt was that it was
a God-forsaken place only fit for con-
victs and ticket-of-leave men, that it
would never carry more than a handful
of half-starved sheep, that he didn’t like
sheep anyway, and that he would give his
eyes to be back in civilisation and Picca-
dilly. It is to underrate Australian audi-
ences to assert that if this point of view
were suggested they would not respond
with hearty laughter.
In the absence of genuine humor, pro-
ducer Claude Flemming is driven to in-
troducing knockabout farce. Moreover,
having built up, with much labor and
sweat, a highly-dramatic atmosphere, the
confectors of the piece drag in inappro-
priate ballets which we have seen a mil-
lion times before, and of which there are
probably half a dozen other specimens
raging at the moment elsewhere about the
town. Also, the psychology of Bob
Keene, the escaped convict who has felt
the lash many times ; of Mary Collit, the
virginal daughter of the Blue Mountains
inn who is torn between love for under-
dog and overdog; of Captain Lake,
“whom no woman can resist” ; of the
mob of freedmen and settlers agin the
Government, is promisingly suggested but
never realised. The aboriginal dance,
with its magnificent 12-foot headdresses
and its careful attention to detail, is a
splendid conception, but has no connec-
tion with the plot, so loses half its effec-
tiveness. If it had been used to empha-
sise the contrast between outpost civili-
sation and mysterious barbarism by being
introduced as a dream picture into the
ballroom at Collit’s Inn it would have
staggered an audience. .
Having discharged his critical ammuni-
tion, present writer now hoists the white
flag. Mary Collit has a voice as good as
Gladys Moncrieff can give her and that
is still saying a good deal ; Robert Chis-
holm makes Captain Lake an agreeably
romantic hero with indeterminate legs ,
Claude Flemming discharges his role ot
convict on sound Baldasarre lines,
Marshall Crosbie, Frank Bradley, Aston
Jarry and Byrl Walkley are excellent in
small parts ; and Bill Coleman’s stereo-
scopic pictures of the bush call for an
approving adjective. The lyrics woo the
ear without sticking in the mind, and
Harry Jacob’s orchestration in the
corroboree is remarkable for the astute
use of the drum and of bird mimicry
behind the scenes. The revolving stage,
enabling inn interiors' to merge into
bushscapes and back again, is a distin-
guished success. Incidentally, the office
anthropologist states that lubras are
usually knocked on the head if they come
near a sacred abo. dance, but that is a
mere circumstance.
* * *
The Firm’s enthusiasm for revivals,
which (presumably) save it a good deal of
expense in the matter of costumes and
scenery, continues unabated. Ranging
the post-war period it has dug up “The
Student Prince,” which Sydney saw pro-
fessionally performed not more than half
a dozen years ago, and which has been
done by amateurs at least once in the
interim. There is nothing in this Rom-
berg bag of musical lollipops that sticks
in the memory, but it has a well-defined
plot and a leaven of drama of a very
stereotyped sort. Tenors being scarce,
John Dudley has been given a chance as
Prince Karl. His drilling in a princely
role in “The Quaker Girl” has given him
some approaches to a stage presence, and
as Karl isn’t expected to be one half as
dashing as' Carol he gets through very
creditably, giving, indeed, a rather more
convincing interpretation of his role than
the very accomplished Miss Welling does
of hers —she should never be cast as a
simple village maiden. Comedy honors
go to the ever-reliable Cecil Kellaway,
as Lutz ; choruses are good as regards
voice, but something ought to be done
about the students’ pants, which fit badly.
Andrew MacCunn holds the baton, and
the orchestra never, never drowns a
soloist.
y v v
A welcome addition to Sydney’s musi-
cal circle is Capt. H. E. Adkins, who has
come from England to create a military
band for the A.B.C. He made his bow
to the public at the Town Hall on Satur-
day night, and demonstrated that he is
not only a good bandmaster (which
means a sound musician with a cyclo-
pedic knowledge of instrumentation) but
a rattling good showman. How, in the
comparatively short time since he arrived
here, he has collected a band, dressed it,
trained it, put upon it the stamp of mili-
tary discipline, and made it a vastly
creditable musical organisation is his
secret. The fare at Saturday night’s con-
cert ranged from Wagner to Gustav
Kerker, and a fine reading of “Finlandia”
was given. In the “Flying Dutchman’
transcription the fortissimos nearly •
cracked the roof ; but the same instru-
ments provided an accompaniment for
the Grieg A Minor Concerto (L. G.
Smith at the piano) which let every note
played by the soloist stand out in clear
relief. There was some singing mingled
with the instrumental music, and the
show was eminently successful.
* * *
There’s not much difference between
the first and the second edition of the
Rolls revue “Tout Paris,” at Sydney Cn.
Turns that remain unchanged (save for
some alterations in cast) include “Gare du
Nord,” “Another Council By-law,” “It’s
the Hat,” “What the Blazes,” “A Game
of Poker” and “The Birth of a Melody.
But the current show contains less smut
than its predecessor. Charles Norman,
the new comedian dances neatly, sings
passably well, and seems a pleasant fellow.
Renie Riano, the lady with the remark-
ably hinged legs, justifies her inclusion.
An imported dancer, Eve Alwyn, appears
in “modernistic dances” clad in scanty
trunks and a few yards of transparent
material. Jack and Sylvia Kellaway and
Betty Kent are the best of the batch left
in from the first edition.
* %■ *
For the first time in 25 years the Firm
has fallen to third place in Melbourne as
producer in legit. Frank Neil beats it
with two shows —one at the Tivoli and
another at the Palace —and Thring has
an interest in the Garrick and is respon-
sible for the all-Australian musicomedy
at the Princess. J.C.W.’s sole stamping-
ground, now the Royal is down, His
Majesty’s a cinder and the Comedy
closed, is the King’s.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Erua”: When the T’other-side-of-No-
where missionary arrived on one of his
rare visits at the backblocks township he
discovered the bishop was also there, and
about to conduct a service. The mis-
sionary took a pew, sang with the rest
“The Church’s One Foundation” and
afterwards accepted the bishop’s invita-
tion to dine with him. “That’s a grand
“Did you have any special reason for taking Herbert away from school ?”
“Too right I had. The schoolmaster insisted on it.”
old hymn,” remarked the missionary
during the repast, “and this, m’Lord, is a
wonderful roast turkey.” “Yes,” mused
the bishop, “it’s the same wherever I go.
I always get ‘Church’s One Foundation’
and roast turkey.” The missionary
sighed. “My experience, m’Lord,” he said,
“is usually ‘Greenland’s Icy Mountains’
and corned beef.”
* * * *
“Kalkadoon”: I once saw a duel. It
happened in the bar of the O’Shaugh-
nessy Hotel, 30 miles out from Camoo-
weal, on the Burketown-road, on a hot
day in 1894. The O’Shaughnessy was
kept by two brothers named Heslop, and
they were the seconds. The principals
were Dick Letts and a man named
Latouche, a descendant of one of the
Huguenot families that settled in Eng-
land. LatouChe had served in the Brit-
ish Army and he would not tolerate dis-
respectful allusions to the Royal Family.
Dick Letts, well knowing this, made a
jest at the expense of the then Prince of
Wales (afterwards Edward VII.). This
brought Latouche to his feet. “Letts,” he
said, “I am too old to fight you with my
fists, but I will fight you a duel.” “Right
you are,” said Dick ; “a duel it is. Any-
way you like.” As swords were not avail-
able, firearms it had to be. One of the
Heslops had a pair of Colt revolvers of
the same calibre. These were loaded by
the two brothers, after a consultation
with Dick, who carefully inspected both
weapons. Latouche left everything to
his second. Ten paces were stepped off
.and the principals took up their positions.
Latouche was in deadly earnest. When
the word was given he fired as quick as
a flash. “Missed, by God!” he ejacu-
lated. “Now, Latouche,” said Dick, rais-
ing his revolver, “is there anything you
want done or any last message before
you leave this world?” “No,” said
Latouche, “shoot and be damned to
you.” Bang! went Dick’s revolver, but
it was pointed to the sky. Latouche, who
had stood as steady as though on parade,
came unstuck at this. He staggered up
to Dick and fell on his shoulders. “A
noble action; a most magnanimous
action. The action of a gentleman!” ex-
claimed the old chap. He had to be
steadied to the bar, where his glass also
had to be steadied to his mouth, whilst
the health of the Royal family was drunk
to the tune of the National Anthem.
Latouche is dead these many years, so
it is safe now to reveal my deep suspi-
cion (knowing Letts and the Heslops) that
neither revolver contained a bullet.
* * * *
“Newsouth”: Travelling up into
Queensland we stopped for a spell near
Dirranbandi. The only shade in sight
was a little belt of yarran scrub, in which
we pitched camp. As night fell a man
riding by turned over to us: “New-
chums in these parts, ain’t yer?” “Yes —
straight up front Riverina.” “I thought
as much—nobody who knows this coun-
try would camp in yarran, for all the
tea in China. Sleeping on the ground,
as you’re going to do, you’ll have a
death-adder in bed with you before you
know what’s the matter. There’s always
death-adders in yarran ; no matter how
scarce they are in the rest of the country
—and they aren’t scarce round about
here. If you fellows want to wake
up alive you’ll hook it out of here.” We
hooked it; but I should like to know
whether we were having our legs pulled.
“Herpeton”: The appearance of a ser-
pent-like creature in the sea near Van-
couver has started the sea-serpent
argument raging among scientific and
lay experts. Whatever the beast is,
it can be taken for certain that it is
not a snake or a reptile of any known
kind. All these are
air-breathers, and
even the well-known
sea-snakes have to
come constantly to
the surface for air.
If this were the case
with a creature of
such great dimen-
sions as all accounts
of these visitations
make the “sea-ser-
pent” out to be, it
would be seen far
more frequently than
happens. On the
other hand, if it
were an eel-like
animal, living far
down in the depths
of the sea, as some
maintain, it could
not reach the upper
waters of the ocean,
much less the sur-
face, and survive.
All the deep-sea
creatures dredged up
by man from the
depths die or burst
from internal pres-
sure when brought
up. That a beast of
the kind does exist
can nowadays be
taken for certain,
since observations of
recent years have
taken place under
trustworthy condi-
tions and all tally too
closely to be fig-
ments of the imag-
ination. What
exactly the “sea-ser-
pent” is will be
made known one of
these days, and then
all the doubters will
join with the believers in the chorus of
“Didn’t yer know it? Why, stone the
crows, I told yer all the time.”
* * * *
“Goburra”: In the good old N.S.W.
mining days, when work was plentiful, I
usually rode an old horse from one field
to another. The last trip I did from Bur-
raga to Captain’s Flat on the old chap
turned me against him—he came down on
his knees three times. On reaching the
Flat I decided to dispose of him, and
told the jackeroo where I had put him
for agistment that he could sell the prad
for £5. Coming to me later the lad said
he could get a fiver for the saddle and
bridle, but (here he was very firm) I must
take the horse away.
* * * *
“Budgeree”: A bushman’s fire-lighter
for wet weather: Fill a tin with fine
white ashes and soak with kerosene.
Dip a stick into the mixture and ignite.
The flame will last long enough to get
the fire alight under the most unfavor-
able conditions.
* * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: Bushmen have some
ingenious ways of curing a horse of the
habit of bridle-breaking. Some hobble
the moke, then pass the reins over a rail
and buckle them to the hobble rings.
After Carbine has pulled his front feet
from under himself and toppled over
a couple of times, he thinks the reins
are on his feet if they are only dropped
on the ground, and will stand anywhere.
A man who owned a chronic bridle-
smasher put a post in on the sloping
bank of a dam, and tied the brumby
to the lower side of it with a rope that
would stand a good strain. When it
broke, the astonished prad plunged sud-
denly into the dam. Two doses of that
remedy and he was a reformed animal.
* * * *
“E.G.W.”: Our pet wallaroo (variously
described by folk outside the family circle
as a kangaroo, a wallaby, and “that
damned animal”) has an insatiable pas-
sion for yellow lace curtains. We have
both blue and yellow curtains in the
sitting-room, and whenever the wallaroo
is let out of his yard, and the door of
the room is open, he makes a beeline for
his most-prized delicacy. He has already
eaten six, and we are not going to
replace them! Although the blue cur-
tains hang lower than the yellow ones,
he never makes any attempt to touch
them.
* * * *
“Jonah’: For once in a way a Sydney
fisherman had a worth-while fish tale to
tell when he got home. In a launch
outside the Heads, he suddenly found
himself heaved high and dry in the air.
Gazing over the side he found his launch
was on the back of a whale which had
risen quietly underneath her. As he
gazed, the craft slid down the slippery
back into the water again and the whale
sounded, no harm being done to either
party. The human hero thanks whatever
gods there be for the fact that the whale
didn’t “blow,” or else he would have
been finished. He evidently cherishes
“I can’t understand a man spending his last penny on
drink.”
“No more can I, mister —unless someone give him
fivepence to go with it.”
the popular delusion that a blowing whale
ejects a vast column of water when it
rises to breathe. The “spout” is only
vapor, the hot breath of the whale con-
densing in the colder air as it is ejected.
In this case the experience of having a
large launch sliding about on its back
must literally have made the cetacean
hold its breath while it made a hurried
getaway.
* * * *
“Jerry”: At Coff’s Harbor (N.S.W.)
a farmer was prosecuted for cutting off
a dog’s ears with the idea of saving its
life from the effect of scrub-tick venom.
The magistrate dismissed the case, as
the dog was showing no ill-effects from
its treatment. Subsequently Prof. Ross,
of Sydney Uni., said it was useless to cut
a dog’s ears in such circumstances. He
may be right, but as long as my memory
goes back, and that’s about 30 years,
North Coast farmers have used this
method, and they believe that the life
of many a valuable cattle-dog has been
saved thereby.
* * * *
“R.R.”: Crop-eating caterpillars that
move about in army formation have
been chewing their hungry way through
the rich wheat-fields round Ashburton
(M.L.). It is thought that the species
(Persectaria composita ) is the same as
that which made North Island farmers,
hair stand on end in the /seventies. The
caterpillar armies which then swarmed
through the country were so dense that
the Wanganui express skidded to a stand-
still on their squashed bodies ; for two
days the line had to be. swept and sanded
before trains could pass along.
* * * *
“Barang”: Almost as well known over-
seas as the eucalypts is the Norfolk Island
pine. Many European tourist resorts in-
clude among their attractions a grove of
these pines, and in America they are as
prominent as the blue-gum. But unless
the Norfolk Islanders pay some attention
to afforestation and conserve the few re-
maining stands of pine the chances are
that the tree will disappear from the
island that gave them their name. For
years wholesale destruction has been
going on, and no attempt at organised
planting has been made. The pines must
be grown together in stands, otherwise
strong lateral branches are thrown out.
Wherever this occurs knotting penetrates
to the very centre of the tree and makes
the timber second-class only. Five years
ago the position was reviewed by the
Commonwealth forestry chief, who re-
commended that an area of at least 1500
acres should be set aside and planted
with pines, but practically nothing has
been done. Some of the land. selected
has been leased to farmers.
AT THE DOG AND DUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There were dead-game sports
In your grand-dad’s day,
As keen as any
You’ll find to-day.
By the yellow files
Of old Sydney’s press
Their recreations .
You may assess.
And ever the phrase
That stirred and stuck
Was “Man and money
At the Dog and Duck.”
For honor and fame
And £ s. d.
They picked their fancies,
The same as we.
The galloping horse
And the stoushing man
Have ne’er lacked backers
Since bets began.
But the first test then
Both for speed and pluck
Was “Man and money
At the Dog and Duck.”
Ride, run or row,
From the old reports,
Our lusty grand-dads
Were dead-game sports.
The bulldog staunch
And the cockpit’s gem
Had each their votaries
To swear by them.
But the sine qua non
If you liked your luck
Was “Man and money
At the Dog and Duck.”
And I can’t but think
In the long ago
It meant less blather
And bounce and blow.
Wherever our forebears
Mingled and met
There was little on which
They wouldn’t bet.
But they set no store
Upon t.-p. truck.
It was “Man and money
At the Dog and Duck.”
N.S.W.
MIFGORD.


“Denny”: The Warden in a Banana-
land mining district had occasion to in-
spect the claims of several men who were
receiving assistance from the Mines
Department. On one claim he noticed
that the reef had diverged to the left at
right angles to the direction in which the
miners were driving from the bottom of
the shaft. “Here, you fellows,” said the
Warden, “the obvious thing for you to
do is to continue to drive, but at fright
angles to your present direction.” “You
be blowed,” retorted the leading partner.
“We are going to drive at left angles,
because that’s where the blanky leader
is heading.”
* * * *
“Double Disc”: It’s not only rabbit-
trappers who have a long working-day.
How about the bloke who takes on a
clearing contract in smallish timber?
Once the fires are lighted it’s a 24-hour-
a-day job till the stumps are burned well
down below ground level. He’s got to
go round his fires at least three times
during the night if he wants to make
anything out of the contract, and in the
daytime there are more fires to be
lighted, “stick-picking” and a dozen
“Will you have a coupla poached eggs, son ?”
“No thank you, sir. I’d rather respect the game laws.”
other jobs to do. I know something
about rabbiting ; I have worked 120 traps
(with the aid of a pony and a good trap
dog). Lack of sleep was not so good—
but the cheques for pelts made up for
that! * *
* * * *
“Horsey”: Recently I lost a draught
horse which was great cobbers with one
of my hacks. On my entering the horse
paddock, this hack galloped up to me,
whinnied loudly, and then galloped off
again in the direction of the others. 1
took no notice at first, and proceeded
to catch the one I intended to use. She
repeated the same tactics, shoving me in
the back with her head, as much as to
say “Hurry up, can’t you?” I followed,
and discovered the draught stretched out
and fast dying. The mare was walking
round him, sniffing him and whinnying. I
could do nothing for him, as he had been
bitten in the lip by a snake, and within a
few minutes of arrival he was dead. We
dragged him away and buried him
properly, most of the horses following
the team that dragged him —which isn’t
unusual. The mare, however, pawed the
ground around his grave for days
and appeared to be in the deepest sorrow,
not even bothering to feed. I started to
work her then, in order to make her for-
get, which it did.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: One of the legendary
characters of Torres Strait is Wakamab,
who once lived on a small island called
Malu-Kau, on the north side of Saibai
Island. Here he had a house made of
cabbage-tree matting, and when people
from Saibai visited the place he gave them
hospitality, but after causing their death
by drowning (the high tide submerging the
accommodation provided for the guests)
he removed their heads with the upi (bam-
boo knife). The heads were, of course,
useful for trading with New Guinea,
in return for food, native weapons, etc.
Ultimately Wakamab’s scheme of dispos-
ing of the visitors who never returned
was discovered, and he paid the penalty.
His stone effigy may now be seen near
the spot. The island craft don’t go sail-
ing round that way now—they maintain
that the waters in the vicinity are very
deep and dangerous, and contain too
many sharks and other unpopular
creatures. Wakamab’s evil spirit still
lives in the stone, so the old men say.
*• * * *
“Prof. Shingleshort”: Though there
are dissimilarities between the crocodile
and the mallee hen, they have four points
in common. The eggs from which they
originate are buried by their respective
mammas and left to the hatching agency
of sun heat. The young of the croc,
remain buried in the sand for a number
of days after breaking the shell before
facing this wicked world. So do newly-
hatched mallee chicks in the fine dust
which invariably forms the core of their
nest. During their living burial croc,
babies are nourished from a ball of egg
yolk attached to the tummy and ab-
sorbed into the system by the dynamic
force of hunger. A thin cord connects
the little mary of the mallee nip. with
the inside of the shell, from which it
has emerged, and on which a thick coat-
ing of glutinous matter remains to be
gradually telegraphed to the chick’s
digestive machinery. Lastly, both infants
engulf periodical doses of rough pebbles.
“Pat Bus h i e”: As
“Avon” says (B. 6/12/’33)
in support of Rod Quinn’s
description of falling surf,
the noise is perfectly even
at a distance ; it is also
very even and rhythmic at
close range on many
beaches. At Coolangatta
(Q.), Brunswick Heads,
Byron Bay and Evans
Heads (N.S.W.), the music
of the surf has the steady
drum of the Barron Falls,
even right at the water’s edge. Belmont
(N.S.W.) beach, on the other hand, when
heavy seas are running, emits a long
tremulous note, which rises and falls.
Even in the town, over a mile from the
water, the sound of the surf pulsates.
% * * *
“Homfrey Beale”: The most pro-
nounced defensive alliance I know of
among bush creatures is that existing
between the Polistes (paper-building
wasps) and G. palpebrosa (gerygones),
both of the far North. Nowhere is a
colony homestead of the paper wasps
found without its encircling guard of any-
thing up to a dozen equidistantly-spaced
gerygone nests. Although the gery is
a purely insectivorous fowl it never
attacks the grown or pupae polistes,
though it will greedily devour other sorts
of wasps and hornets. The close asso-
ciation ensures the gerygone freedom
from disturbance by man or animal, both
having a healthy respect for the tenant
rights of the polistes ; but ornithologists
and entomologists have long puzzled over
what benefit the wasp gets out of the
“Could you tell me where I could find a bit of gold about here ?"
“Bit o’ gold, m’son ? I don' know whereun is. There ’e do be whereun
ARE. I bayn’t whereun is.”
arrangement. I put this to an old Mary
River buck once, and he told me that
certain grubs which harbor a stomachic
regard for polistes’ eggs and pupae are
considered the last word in delicacies by
the gerygones.
ifc * *
“O. W. Waireki”: As “Bullionist” (B.
22/11 /’33) suggests, a Maori head would
be quite in order on at least one denomi-
nation of M.L.’s new silver coinage, but it
won’t, as he hints, go on the threepenny-
bit. I have official information that this
coin will exhibit the dial of a typical
Dunedin Scot.
•fc * * *
“Der Jong”: A pity “Eucalalie,” nam-
ing all the countries from China to Peru
which have adopted the Australian euca-
lyptus, left out South Africa—the land
of all others which has taken the gum-
tree to its heart and profited by it. Aus-
tralians entering on the beginning of the
Boer War were intrigued to find in the
Karroo, south of Kimberley, the old
bluegum waiting to greet them. In Kim-
berley, and at every farm swept past on
the rush to Bloemfontein, the gum was
there, the only tree in sight on the open
grass veld. At Bloemfontein we found
the town thick with the trees, and all the
way to Pretoria told the same story.
Always with the gum the wattle was
associated, save on very poor and barren
little farms. Kipling, of course, has told
about the wattle in his “Lichtenburg”
verse.
* * * *
“Avis”: The rare ground parrot (B.
15/11 /’33) is not the only feathered Aus-
tralian with a long A.W.L. entry on his
conduct sheet. There is an expedition
prospecting Centralia for a related
variety of parrot which has not been
seen in a live state for many a year.
And A. J. Marshall, a field naturalist
attached to the Australian Museum,
is looking round the Macpherson
Ranges, on the Q.-N.S.W. border, for the
Queensland or Albert lyrebird, which has
long been posted as extinct. Local
naturalists who know the semi-tropical
jungles of the range say this is incorrect,
the bird’s song being frequently heard in
the early mornings, though sight of the
shy creature is rarely come by.
* * * *
“Eureka”: For his size the goanna is
easily the strongest creature in the bush.
If you don’t believe it try to lift one off
the ground. Recently I caught one by
the tail just as he was about to disappear
in a big rabbit burrow. I pulled as hard
as I could but might just as well have
tried to lift the national debt. I called
to a mate to give me a hand (we wanted
some goanna oil); he took a grip of
the goanna’s tail also, and together we
pulled with all our might. Suddenly we
both fell over backwards. In our hands
we held his tail', the rest of him dis-
appeared down the burrow.
“B. Sting”: The Honey Workers'
Union has cause of action for slander
against “Larrapinta” and “H.K.8.” (B.
15/11/’33). “Larrapinta” has stated that
the factory hands are all color-blind. As
evidence against that assertion apiarists
wear white because to bees that is the
least offensive hue. “H.K.8.” declares
that it is position and not structure to
which homing bees return. Bee men in
bush districts constantly change the loca-
tion of their hives when following blos-
soming gums, yet the workers return to
the new site instead of to the old address.
Swarming bees, too, when captured, are
hived adjacent to their old home. They
never err by bringing their goods to the
wrong tenement. Bees, like bushmen,
have an instinctive sense of locality. They
find their way home even though the
hive is removed during their absence.
* * * *
“Eureka”: A matchbox bean (Entada
scandens ) was washed up on a beach
near Eden, South Coast (N.S.W.), the
other day and, though it must have been
in the water for many months, it germi-
nated when placed in the ground. These
beans have an air cavity which keeps
them afloat, and they have been picked
up many hundreds of miles from Queens-
land, where they grow. Bushmen scoop
out the kernel and make very fine water-
proof matchboxes from these beans.
They polish more handsomely than
maple, and it ought to be worth while
to jewellers to mount the beans with
silver or gold for sale as Australian
souvenir matchboxes.
He * * *
“Seahill”: Though they hunt in flocks,
seagulls seem to have no community
spirit. At Albany (W.A.) recently a
flock of about a hundred gulls was rid-
ing on the sea when a mollyhawk sud-
denly swooped and, gripping a gull’s
head in its beak, proceeded to hold it
under the water. The gull fought fran-
tically, clawing and flapping its wings,
while the larger bird hung on. Once
the gull freed itself, but before it could-
rise the mollyhawk clutched it again and
submerged it. The struggles became
feeble, then ceased, and the victim; rolled
over in the choppy sea. The victor tore
open the skin and devoured the flesh of
the breast. No effort was made by the
other gulls to assist their unfortunate
brother.
* * * *
“Hornby”: What is the Common-
wealth’s wheat-bag-sewing record for a
single day? N.S.W. figures are claimed
by Jack Cunningham, of Condobolin,
who, during the ’3l season, sewed and
properly completed 518 bags in one ordi-
nary day (sunrise to sunset about) on
the property of H. Buckland at Ootha.
The district record for Narromine
(N.S.W.) is held by a gentleman with
the appropriate surname of Seed, who,
sewing for H. Newbrigging in ’3O,
accomplished 480 bags in one day. His
ordinary daily tally was 360 bags. Last
year James Kellahan, on the property of
F. Elrington, of Currawong (N.S.W.),
turned out 308 bags in a day of just
under ten hours. A fair day’s work for
an expert sewer is reckoned to be 180
to 200 bags.
SUNDOWNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I may have hitched my waggon to a star
When Youth deluded me with nod and smile,
Beckoned in days agone to paths afar;
But nowadays it isn’t worth my while
To tie my shabby, battered caravan,
That creaks along expediency’s road,
To any force that moves more swiftly than
The smooth-paced years that draw life’s
autumn load.
Like bones that waste away on wind-swept
plain,
Around me unfulfilled ambitions rot;
Old hopes, old dreams —why think of them
again? . , ,
Old memories weaken till I heed them not.
The joy of living lies for me to-day
Where white gums gleam with pink and grey
galahs,
And slender, swaying canegrass stems are gay
With clinging green-and-yellow budgerygahs.
At sound of hoofbeats some soft, creamy heap
That glows like satin in the summer haze
Breaks up and turns to new-born lambs that
leap
Across to where their watchful mothers
graze; . ■
Above green clumps of trembling, taper reeds
Rosellas flash with flaring, crimson breasts,
Past solemn bfolgas wading through the weeds,
Round snow-white cockatoos with yellow
1 crests.
At break of day no sombre smoke-plumes twist
Across the lavender and lilac sky,
Nor dim the sapphire, gold and amethyst
That evening’s evanescence glorify;
Before the early morn’s cool loveliness,
The restful languor of the midday heat,
The tranquil tenderness of night’s caress,
Regret halts—challenged for an empty cheat.
QUEENSLAND.
MOROBE.


&A LINE
S.S. TANDA
leaves Sydney Jan. 13
S.S. NANKIN
leaves Sydney Feb. 10
S.S. NELLORE
leaves Sydney Mar. 14
S.S. TANDA
leaves Sydney April 14
"(HINA JAPAN
Jj APAN—attractive at all times—is delightful in early
Spring, with the coming of the blossoms. The bracing
air and exhilarating clear freshness ensure an inviqoratinq,
health-giving holiday.
The E. & A. Line route, which includes calls at Rabaul, Manila,
Hongkong, Shanghai and five ports in Japan, is varied and interesting.
The Round Trip gives the best value of any tourist trip to-day. The
Australian £ is worth 25/- in Japan.
Agents
in all States
and
New Zealand.
Round Trip
Steamer Fares
Sydney to Yokohama
First £9O
Second ,£56 / 15
\
Free of Exchange
NAGOYA
OSAKA
MOJI
/shanghai
ONG KONG
ixV
WsS-YxStPX.V-,
• .vi-.'-wia'iiT
*3B
5 MANILA
X’
RABAUL
i:'.
. rf?
-Jgl
W
'ijf&HgZtPft y
*3,
OWNSVILLE'
BRISBANE
MSSssf.
iYONEY
■= /
iW
MELBOURNE*!
v l HOBART
2«
.i
»
131
fc
,r nr I - -r-pn rTn.Bmrw ■
‘£f pj* P?f*
AUh p


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. •• ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
£2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills f rom abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price fox the original-
rN'
o--i
<S>>
**
0> <r
-^-v
-JV
A'
jo x vr
v*V
0
.\ i>
/•V
SPRING AND
SUMMER
-SYDNEY HAS AN
IRRESISTIBLE APPEAL TO
HOLIDAY MAKERS.
Blue skies, a considerate sun, scintillating
ocean and harbor, clean, brilliant, safe
beaches call you now. Gorgeous gardens
and miles of orchards and farms in their spring
settings add to your pleasure. The Metropole is
in close juxtaposition to all these—as to all theatrical
and picture and other pleasure resorts. Sydney’s shops
with their displays are reached by tram. Winter Garden
with Orchestra. Terms from 6/6 per night (room only)
you will combine with economy the greatest comfort. Service is
not the slogan—it is the practice.
ZIPP
%e. LATEST
IDEA in.
Elasbic Sided
RIDING
BOOTSj
f
REG? DESIGN
N? 9292
HN STROHC
TAN CALF
leather:
POLL 6.HALP
SIZES
sfc
—B ROTMERS LTD—
IN QUEEN STREET BRISBANE—
SMOKE-OH!
PROVERBS, 1933.
Nay, five things there be beyond all
understanding.
And the fifth is the way of a politician
into the N. S. Wales Upper House,
v *
Rumored that the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment will shortly appoint a Board Board
—its job being to administer all the other
boards.
ALIMONY FOR HUSBANDS.
“The Victorian Parliament has passed a
measure which entitles husbands, in certain
circumstances, to alimony or maintenance.”
“Go her for maintenance —that’s all
you can do with a woman like that,”
piped Clarence.
Cuthbert wiped a tear from his eye.
“Oh, I don’t like to! I hate to intro-
duce the police. For one thing Mabel
was engaged to a policeman once, and
he broke it off. Call me sentimental if
“That’s the sort of girl I feel I ought to pray for.”
“She’s the sort I’d pray for, too, if I thought I’d
have any luck.!”
you will. Anyhow”—with a gust of
tears —“she loved me once. She m-may
c-c-come b-b-back to me!”
“No use being soft, dear. Force her
to come home, if you want her ; and,
above all, don’t crawl. Make her pay as
I make my Ethel pay.”
“But I thought”
“Yes, I know ; the brute is in arrears.
Matter of fact, I was just off to get the
warrant out when I met you. She may
think she can laugh at me, but 111 have
my beauty in gaol before Christmas.”
“Oh, Clarence, you surely
wouldn’t do that! ” moaned
Cuthbert.
“That’s just what I will do! ”
snapped Clarence. “If she can
go to dances and theatres with
that Martin boy she can afford
to pay me my money. She
doesn’t think about me —with
not so much as a second waist-
coat to my name. Come along,
dear, and I’ll get you fixed up
the same time as I do my own
business.”
H. M.
* *
Europe’s disarmament pro-
posals are being kept at arms’
length.
Gardening hint: “John, I see the
Browns have cut their lawn.”
YOUNG MOORE’S N. S. WALES
ALMANAC FOR 1934.
January. —Mr. Spooner will unveil a
statue of Major Douglas, the gift of the
Associated Banks. Board of Control will
cable M.C.C. demanding explanation of
word “which” in their December cable.
Anglicans will ask for new State-aided
cathedral in Macquarie-street to cost
not less than £500,000.
February. —A suburban council will
hold a meeting without an alderman
being ejected. A prominent single-taxer
will refuse to contribute to the “Letters
to the Editor” column of the “S.M.H.”
and will lose the convert he gained last
year. Council of Churches will protest
against State lottery.
March. —M.C.C. will refer Board to
cable of previous April, text of which
was confirmed, and will request finality
by next October at latest. New Angli-
can archbishop will protest
against R.A.S. holding show
during Easter Week, and
will demand new cathedral
as promised by Mr. Lang.
April. —Parliament will
debate question of a longer
working week and will then
go into recess for six
months.
May. —Rev. T. E. Ruth
will refuse a press inter-
view.
June. —W. M. Hughes
will start a crusade and the
resultant new party will be
swallowed by U.A.P. W.,
M. Hughes will be the en-
dorsed candidate for North
Sydney.. Mr. Weaver will
divide Cabinet over pro-
posal to introduce mam-
moth lotteries ? as' a chal-
lenge to activities of a
“northern consultation.”
July. —Prominent Bondi
iceberg will be interviewed
by “Sun” with regard to
temperature of sea at 6 a.m.
Board of Control diehards
will send requisition de-
>mandingr special .'meeting to
formulate reply to -M.C.C.’s
. latest cable. Council of
Churches .will pass a resolu-
tion condemning State lottery.
A u'gust— Customs Department will ban
“Eric,' or Little by Little” as being
morally harmful to young Australians.-
Anglicans will protest against lottery
and demand new cathedral forthwith.
September. —The A.L.P. Inner Group
will commence another heresy hunt. Aid.
Garden will enhance A.L.P.’s chances by
making speech extolling U.S.S.R. imme-
diately prior to elections. Lottery will be
won by man who hasn’t been on dole
for three years.
October. —The Fleet will commence
summer manoeuvres, culminating in de-
ploy by-the two ships into Hobson’s Bay
prior to the first Tuesday in November.
November. —Expert on one of Syd-
ney’s 43 turf papers will pick two winners
at Robbery Park. K.C. will voice pro-
test against inordinate prolongation of
society divorce cases
"You know chemistry has done a won-
derful lot for civilisation.”
“Yairs. Look at all our blondes."
December. —Prominent charity worker
will refuse permission for her photo, to
appear in “Social Sidelights” page. Pro-
minent men will opine that following year
should see us on highroad to prosperity.
S. W. K.
* *
“Sydney should plant more fig-trees to re-
place those that have disappeared.”
If v only-as;a preparation for future
feminine fashions.
WAYWARD HEART.
Louise was feeling romantic. A full
moon flooded the garden with its rays
as she stood hesitant near the gate. She
knew that both
Robert and Clive
were awaiting .her.
Louise loved;Bob’s
engaging manner,
his flippancy, his
disarming smile. Yet
Clive tugged at her
heartstrings. She
had known him for
years—long, long be-
fore Robert had
come upon the scene
—and she was not
a. girl to forget
lightly. Clive was
older, solider, more
masterful, a wonder-
ful lover.
iLouise sighed.
How difficult a girl’s
life was! Once more
she faced her; prob-
lem. Was it to be
the Strand and
Robert Mont-
gomery, or should she go to the Royal
and see Clive Brook?
P. O.C.
“For some months past business men in
Moonee Ponds have been complaining of the
annoyance caused by loudspeakers.”
— “Herald.”
. They are, as it were, the talk of the
suburb.
“Women’s feet are growing larger.”
—Medical gazette.
Well, they will go on trying to fill
men’s shoes.
Unfortunately for the Disarmament
Movement there’s no disarmament move-
ment.
# *
“The game was played without spit.” >
—Melbourne “Sun.
Failed to come up to expectorations,
so to speak.
* *
REAL-LIFE STORY.
“So this is the end,” he sighed.
“I’m sorry,” she said. “More sorry
than I can say.”
“You’ll never marry me?”
“Frankness is best, dear,” and her
eyes were full of pity. “No. It can never
be.”
So they parted, and lh>th lived more
or less happily ever after.
“Any tripe left, Mr. Boggits?”
“Cert’nly, mum. Alwuz keep a bit up me
sleeve for a reg’lar customer."
“Possibilities with two suits in hand.”
—Bridge article.
But who has two suits in hand these
days?
REQUIESCAT.
(Apologies to Matthew Arnold .)
“There is no happiness in wealth,” said Mary
Pickford. “I want to tell my public that the
best things in life are free; not yachts or world
cruises or bouncing one’s body about from
•here to there.” — “Telegraph.”
Strew rue o’er her girlish flounces,
Sweet garlands of ballyhoo:
No longer her body bounces
From Paris to Timbuctoo.
Once her art the fans required ;
To see her bouncing they’d pay;
But now they are tired, tired — < 1
From her films they stay away.
Her life was all earning, earning.
She raked in the cash with zest;
Now for peace she is yearning, yearning,
She’d fain body-bounce to rest.
10-2-4.
EPITAPH ON A POLITICIAN.
“Mr. Lang said that in serving his country
he had found happiness that no degree of
wealth or social position could give him.”
With his arrival Sydney shed her cares.
The Inner Group’s sound judgment
soon was seen.
He brought her wealth and progress with
tin-hares,
And saved her bacon with a fruit-
machine.
o. c. c.
HER GIFT.
“Make it a motoring gift this year. Express
the Yuletide sentiment in something to do witli
his car.”—' '‘Sun.’’
1 had thought about giving him tyres for
• his car;
Or a mat, or a new set of plugs,
Though he’d more than once said that
he needed a jar,
Or a beer-cask, or one or two jugs.
James, like plenty of motorists, simply
won’t think
Of beginning a tour without plenty of
drink.
Then l suddenly thought of the ideal gift.
Not a costly beer-holding device;
Not a gadget, but something embodying
thrift.
Need I say I refer to advice?
My advice was the present he finally got:
Viz■, to trade in his rotten old car on
the spot.
D.


SPORT ING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
There has never been a better perform-
ance in the Villiers Stakes than that put
up by Closing Time (12 to 1). Thought
to be a mere sprinter, and burdened with
9st. 51b., the four-year-old son of Tippler
—Miss Myra led all the way and equalled
Winooka’s Australasian record for the
mile (lmin. 35fsec.). Little Bill Wedge-
wood battled on gamely to get second
prize, a couple of lengths behind Closing
Time, with Milantheon third and Gloriole
fourth; Aussie’s Delight was a late
scratching.
There was so much money for Tin-
galba that at one stage of the betting
Booth’s big gelding became favorite.
However, a last-minute rush saw Bill
Wedgewood go out as the popular pick.
The hardy son of Bicolor lost ground at
the five furlongs, and was rushed up in
the next furlong to almost draw level
with Closing Time at the Leger. He tired,
as was only to be expected. Bartle made
good use of the winner’s great pace, and
horses like Satmoth, Ranchero, Tingalba
and Bronze Hawk were carried off their
feet.
Closing Time and his sister Myra Tip
are trained by J. T. Jamieson. Closing
Time races in Jamieson’s colors ; Myra
Tip in those of Hunter White, who bred
Bert *Did you put your two shillings
OH POR /k PLACE ? "
n
<SERT . No, THE BOOKIE WAS VERY
RUOE' s
Bert:"Oh, what cmd he sky 3"
o f
Giert', He sixio ns runhihg,
REGISTRY OPCICE "
them. In the second division of the
December Nursery, which preceded the
Villiers, Bartle had an easy ride on Myra
Tip (9 to 4); the filly streaked away from
Visage (6 to 4), turning for home, and
after that it was “no race.” Sonny
secured third money, but Myra Tip won
so easily that he looks to be only a
suburban proposition.
The Heroics are going to be in the
boom at the next yearling sales. Hope, a
good-looking chestnut by Heroic from
Rythona, was backed from 15 to 1 to
fives in the first division of the Nursery,
and, although he ran about in the straight
and finished under the judge’s box, he
beat the pacemaker, Short Wave, by half
a length, with Constantine, who may be
worth following, a fair third. The
favorite, Limyris, met with a lot of
trouble early, and her failure can be over-
looked. Hope is owned and trained by
R. Bruce, who has found Talkie a failure,
A.J.C. committeeman Walter Brunton
thought that his grey colt R oxburgh (6 to
1) would win the Holiday Handicap. The
son of imported Pantheon and Chrystal
did his part of the contract in tradesman-
like fashion ; he was coming away at the
finish from Mince Pie and Lancaster
King. Antique was made favorite, but
he was not quite solid enough to run out
the ten furlongs, being beaten imme-
diately McCarten sent him for a run on
the rails. Miramond, fourth, did much
better than at Rosehill.
Unluckily beaten by Happyendo at
Rosehill, Tatyoon made no mistake in
the Highweight Handicap. Booth and his
friends backed the big gelding from
twelves to sixes in a good betting race.
Ridden by Roy James, Tatyoon won
comfortably "from two outsiders, Sailing
and Speldon, who. ran a deadheat. The
favorite,'Babili, showed pace early, but
came home weakly, -while the second
fancy, Cynical, was never sighted despite
his great track trials. Stonebrook was
fourth ; he should soon enter the winning
list.
The three divisions of the Novice went
to gallopers who should be heard of
again. Randwick-trained Harry England
led in High (6 to 1) in the first heat;
High is owned by V. M. White, a north-
west N.S.W. pastoralist. The second
division was captured by Calverhero
(14 to 1), a stable-mate of Lancaster King,
raced by the Curry brothers, of Menangle,
where he is trained. Doonbeg (7 to 2),
another of the Tipplers, annexed the third
division. He is raced by “W. Longman”
and trainer Jack King.
* =l= * *
For Tatt.’s meeting at Randwick:
Carrington Stakes: Dame Moab ; next,
High.
Tatt.’s Club Cup: Milantheon ; next,
Mince Pie.
* * * *
Spearman may earn his oats in Mel-
bourne yet. He was allowed to run loose
in the middle-distance Highweight Handi-
cap at Moonee Valley, and, putting in a
great finishing run, gained second place.
The div. for ss. was £3 9s. McShortodds
offered 25 to 1 s.o. ; the machine would
have paid twice as much. Spearman
looked above himself in condition, but
appearances may have been deceptive ; he
is a stoutly-built fellow. He was bought
privately by T. Byrnes, who succeeded the
late Harry McCalman as trainer to Ben
Chaffey.
Success in the Highweight went to
Magoot, who has graduated from the
pony ranks to become one of the most
useful performers in Melbourne. Small
though he is, Magoot has strength and
grit. He was recently bought by a patron
of the stable of J. M. Murphy, and the
£4OO earned on Saturday makes him a
gift to the new owner. Skidmore, inden-
tured to Murphy, had the winning mount,
This lad will be at liberty to ride for
outside owners in the new year, and seems
destined to become as big a boom as
Duncan was until that jockey was forced
to retire through a race accident which
left serious results,
•
R. Vincent, president of the Geelong
Racing Club, owns Game Chick, who
vanquished the 5-to-4 favorite Chamundi
in the Two-year-old Handicap. Vincent
races the Whittier filly in conjunction with
his brother-in-law, A. Robertson, of South
Aus. The progeny of Whittier have not
done that stallion as much credit as was
anticipated, but Game Chick is a good
one. She possesses fine speed, combined
with a fair amount of stamina, to judge
by her finishing effort. Chamundi (Con-
stant Star—Magnet) is one of a number
of fillies bought by A. G. Hunter for use
later on as brood mares at his Seymour
stud. Hunter leased Chamundi to W.
Burke. His own colors were carried in
the race by Tasty Pie (Magpie—Poet-
aster). After assisting Chamundi to make
the running as far as the home stretch
Tasty Pie faded out of a place. She will
benefit by this outing and is due for an
early win.
Divisions of the Three-year-old Handi-
cap went to Life Guard and Kalili, each
the first choice of backers. Life Guard,
raced by Vincent O’Neill, of Spearfelt
fame, is the first foal of Woorambie, a
Woorak mare, his sire being The Night
Patrol. In appearance Life Guard favors
The Night Patrol, and he may turn out a
really good galloper. Kalili was named
by A. G. Hunter after the swimmer of
that name, who paid a visit to Hunter’s
stud at Seymour. Perhaps something
went wrong with the course chronometer
in Kalili’s race. It is hard to believe that
he took lmin. ISfsec. to cover the six
furlongs, seeing that Life Guard got over
the distance in lmin. 14^-sec.
H. Olsen, who was associated with the
victory of Life Guard, won the last event
of the day on Belle Zircon, a horse quoted
at 25 to 1 in the ring—she paid at the
rate of nearly 44 to 1 on the tote. Belle
Zircon belongs to Percy Foster, who has
often visited Sydney with horses. Foster
picked her up for' 45gns. as a yearling—
2ygns. less than R. Vincent gave for
Game Chick. Horses got for old-song
prices at yearling sales have done excep-
tionally well in Melbourne during the past
few seasons, Waltzing Lily being a notable
case in point. Fred Foulsham, the Caul-
field trainer, landed a double with Kalili
and Astronomy, while Daniels equalled
the achievement of Olsen in riding two
writers.
r\ g j d re v d i
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Gunner William Meeske became a
professional wrestler when he returned
from the Great War (or it may have been
the one in the Crimea), and can still put
up a good show. At Leichhardt on
Saturday he turned every weapon in his
armory on Clarke, from the U.S.A.:
slapped, bit and kicked him, pulled his
hair, tickled his spine, tugged at his
bottom teeth, jumped on him and
downed him with a pin-fall in the second
round. While these pleasantries were
in progress the American gave every
appearance of being in excruciating
agony. He recovered magically, however.
In the fourth, carried away by exuber-
ance or something, the Australian leapt
on Clarke’s back while that worthy was
on all fours, and was borne so suddenly
and energetically to the floor, head-first,
as to be rendered incapable of further
proceedings. In the jargon of the mat-
game, he was back-slammed. Clarke the
winner. In a penetrating female voice
the eventual conqueror had been urged
to “Kill ’im, Clarkie.” It was always the
ladies, one recalls, who turned their
thumbs down in the Coliseum.
Racquet and Bawl
Australia won the second tennis Test
against England at Brisbane by eight
rubbers to four. At the end of the first
day the home side was four up, Moon,
McGrath and Quist beating Hughes, Lee
and Wilde respectively, while Hopman
and Moon won a hard-fought five-set
doubles match from Perry and Lee. On
the second day McGrath provided the
sensation of the tour by overcoming Perry
in two of three sets. Wilde proved too
good for Moon, and Hopman for Lee. As
McGrath and Quist also accounted for
Hughes and Wilde in the doubles, Aus-
tralia led seven rubbers to one. The
Englishmen made a gallant rally on the
third day. Quist was too strong for
Hughes in the opening singles, but after
that it was England’s day. Perry easily
disposed of Hopman in two sets, and with
Lee downed Quist and McGrath by three
sets to one. Hughes and Wilde won three
out of five sets in the final doubles.
•fC 9jC 9{C
“Top Spin”: There is more in the
present series of tennis Tests than the
mere winning of the rubber. The form
shown and the result will be a useful
pointer to Australia’s chances of winning
the next Davis Cup, since the English
team, with the exception of Austin, is
the same as that which took the pot
from France. If we can win the rubber,
as seems likely, our lads will go overseas
backed with the confidence which adds
25 per cent, to a team’s playing capacity.
France, with no reinforcements to replace
the old brigade, seems out of the hunt.
More dangerous is America, though
Vines has gone over to the pros. Neither
Japan nor Germany, most formidable of
the remaining sides, seems capable of out-
ing this country in the eliminating rounds,
and it is a fair thing to assume that, the
unforeseen not interfering, we should
win the right to challenge Britain.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The Australian tennis
championships kick off in Sydney on
January 18 and carry on for 10 days. The
English players will be on hand, and
the management has evidently taken this
into consideration when fixing prices for
the Rushcutter Bay convincing ground
The minimum will be two bob for the
western bank and 4s. for all other seats
save the grandstand chairs, for which
“special prices” are to be charged. On
Anniversary Day and the closing day of
the championships, January 27, prices
will jump to Test-match heights. Still,
a season ticket costing a pound will let
anyone brave enough face the entire
circus—people have been known to pay
as much as that to see a tattooed lady
at a country show,
* * * *
.. Baseline ... The news that Emily Hoodi
now jyj rs \y es tmacott, will be showing
at the Australian championships in Syd-
ney j n j anuar y w ju be received with
approval by those who recall her sensa-
tional advent in the junior championships!
at Rushcutter Bay two or three years
ago . She was then long and what the
lady novelists of the Corelli period used
to call “svelte,” and the way she got
about the courts at top speed electrified
spectators used to the much more re-
strained gambols of the local champions,
Withal she had an engaging personality
and an electric smile which made the
crowd take her to its heart.
(
* ns Guts
Two Sheffield Shield matches were
played during Christmas week. In
Adelaide Queensland let South Australia
reach 393, the fielding being shocking,
Ryan, with 124, was the chief contributor,
with Tobin (55) next in order; except
Nitschke and Wall all reached double
figures. Wickets were spread over half
a dozen bowlers. Bananaland collapsed
for 147, and South Australia had visions
of an innings win. There was a kick in
the follow-on, however, and the score
ran to 339. A fine stand by Levy (148)
and Oxenham (50) was chiefly responsible.
Grimmett took 5 for 58 in Queensland’s
first innings, and 6 for 134 in the second,
many chances being dropped off him.
Nitschke was out at stumps on Christmas
Day with the score at 35, leaving the
home team with 59 to get for a win.
At Melbourne N.S.W. and Victoria
met. Batting first, the Victorians took a
day and a half to get 382 runs. Scoring
was slow, but very level, Darling leading
with 91 ; then came O’Brien (86), Wood-
full (60) and Ponsford (30). Howell
took 5 for 97, and O’Reilly 3 for 92. On
Saturday night N.S.W. had lost 3 for
199. Fingleton made 76, and Bradman
was 68 n.o. Brown and Kippax were
both out for small scores. Fleetwood-
Smith took two wickets which cost him
64 runs.
(I Continued on page 25.)
The Rugby League Kangaroos are
drawing near the end of their tour. Fog
caused abandonment of a match with
Dewsbury, but the tourists had a good
win over York by 15-7. After the clos-
ing match with Wales at Wembley, the
team expects to play an exhibition match
in Paris.
* * * *
“Third Base”: The visit of the Ameri-
can baseballers promises to be an impos-
ing affair. All doubts have been settled
by the approval of the tour by K. M.
Landis. There will be two complete
teams drawn from the two great leagues,
the American and the National.
* * * *
“F.U.R.”: Safeguarding devices against
car-stealers are as numerous as the sands
of the sea and about as effective for the
purpose. A new German invention pro-
mises better. An arm with a forked end
is slipped under one of the steering-wheel
spokes so that the wheel cannot be
turned. To release the wheel the owner
has to set the correct combination on a
lock giving about 22,000 before a knob
can be pulled back to allow the arm to
be withdrawn.


“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS!”
Repairs. Firearms sent C.O.D.
QUALITY.
You get that feeling of satisfaction
when you purchase your SHOOTING
AND FISHING WANTS from the
Firm that has a REPUTATION FOR
QUALITY GOODS AND SERVICE.
The Greatest Variety of Shooting and
Fishing Tackle in Australia.
WRITE FOR .I CATALOGUE.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
143 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540.
“FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING.”
V
/
U
above a,
m
'A
m
■m
<8
The KISMET Pressure Gauge is a precision instru-
ment that cannot tell a He. It gives immediate,
truthful, accurate readings of your tyre pressures.
To use the KISMET Pressure Gauge regularly means safety,
comfort and economy of your tyres. The figures on the fiat
scale surface are calibrated in lib. units and are
CLEAR AND VISIBLE.
Apart from its unequalled accuracy and legibility, the KISMET
Pressure Gauge is finished like a jewel—the finest gauge on the market.
Complete in Wallet. 1 /(* BRITISH
Price JLU'O MANUFACTURE.
Sole Manufacturers: WILLIAM TURNER & BROTHER, LTD.,
Eyre Works, Sheffield, England.
KISMET"-™ GAUGE
Representative: John Arnold, 386 Post Office Place, Melbourne.
The Richardson Chain Hotel
< ■/» V
*!1
!li III?
V If iLil V 4 il ?' It
THE
HOTEL
ALEXANDER
SPENCER STREET
(Opposite
Railway Station),
MELBOURNE
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
MELBOURNE’S MOST MODERN HOTEL
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
'Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
Ins and Outs
Both the favorites were badly licked in
the Sheffield Shield matches which ended
early last week. N.S.W. collapsed agam
against South Australia at Adelaide after
Bradman (76) and Kippax (90) had flat-
tered Ma’s backers, the whole side going
in the second spell for 271. Kippax
played a beautiful shot, but Grimmett
(5-103) had them all scratching. South
Australia got the 64 wanted to win with-
out loss. Richardson was 20, while
Nitschke hit magnificently for 44.
In Melbourne, Queensland, after being
towelled in Brisbane by Victoria to the
tune of an innings and 31, upset the home
side by 38 runs on the first innings. Vic-
toria’s first knock ended at 204, Oxenham
taking 4 for 36 and tying every bats-
man up. Queensland made a bad start,
but, thanks to a good 47 by Levy and a
solid stand by Oxenham (33 n. 0.) and
Leeson (34), hoisted 242 before all was
over. Ironmonger and Smith took three
wickets each.
Victoria now leads with 11 points.
Ma and S.A. are equal with five, while
Queensland has three.
H: * *
“Mlech”: India added a new chapter to
her history last week when Amar Nath,
batting in the first Test for India against
Jardine’s team, made 118, the first cen-
tury scored by an Indian in a match of
this calibre. As he had notched 88 in the
first innings, Amar must be a pretty use-
ful sort. The crowd went mad and
rushed the ground, much to Jardine’s dis-
gust. Wreaths were hung on Amar, ladies
showered jewels upon him, while high
and low turned in £l5OO in cash and a
gold cup. This sounds better than League
cricket in Lancashire, or even the Aus-
tralian amateur variety.
* * * *
“Zeertally”: That reference to Nye’s
bowling (B. 6/12/’33) calls for comment.
VICTORIAN RACING IDENTITIES.
F. E. Shillabeer, president
Victorian Club ; part-owner
of Shadow King.
S. E. Bailey, part-owner of
Shadow King.
J. Fell, V.A.T.C. committee-
man.
J. S. Dunbar, treasurer Vic-
torian Club.
Rupert Greene, starter,
V.R.C.
Nye came from England with his parents
to Katandra West (Vic.) six years ago,
and began cricket when the Tally-
garoopna Cricket Association was formed
in 1930 A lad of 17, over 6ft. high and
as thin as a snake, he developed express
pace on the matting, but with very little
control of the ball. Properly coached, he
should prove a tower of strength to Sus-
sex as a bowler and more than useful
as a hitting batsman. Dad Nye decided
twelve months ago to return to England,
and perhaps Australia has lost a speed
merchant.
* * .* *
“Jolimont”: A Victorian bowler
named Rigg, playing in a minor club
match, took four wickets with the last
four balls of an over and a couple more
with the first two balls of the next. As the
records have it, this has only been done
once before, by J. Wisden, in 1859, play-
ing for England against 22 of the U.S.A.
and Canada in America.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Following on the demise
of Collingwood C.C. after the attempt of
Bumbledom to interfere with cricket con-
trol, something of the same sort threatens
in Sydney. Petersham, one of Sydney’s
oldest district clubs, has rented Petersham
Oval from the municipality for over 30
years, paying £2O a year. Under the im-
pression that the club was making a lot
of money the council resolved to take it
over and stick to all admission money
and wicket fees. The club has put back
into the oval all the money it has re-
ceived, including £BOO in grants from the
N.S.W.C.A. It cannot carry on on the
members’ subscription of a guinea—
always suspended for unemployed mem-
bers —and will probably have to put up
the shutters.
* * * *
“Trent Bridge”: The cables and the
English press are making the devil of
a fuss over the probability of Larwood’s
recovery in time to bowl for England
in the next Tests against Australia. If
he does it is taken for granted that the
Notts pitman will win the games for
the Old Dart. It looks a poor bet to me,
since everything goes to show that in
England at least Larwood plays the lamb
instead of the lion as in Australia. He
has had two shies at Australian bats-
men in England. In 1926 his average
was 28 for each of the 9 wickets he took.
In 1930 he could only get 4 wickets at
a cost of 74 apiece, and as he had just
returned from his first big success on
Australian wickets there could be no
question of not having his tail up.
* * * *
“H.R.P.”: The usually reliable “Aig-
burth,” while chiding certain sporting
scribes for their lack of knowledge of
cricket history (B 13/12/ 33), himself
omits Ponsford s 437 against Queensland
in his list of marathon scores. WHh 429
against Tasmania, 35- against N.S. .
and 336 against S.A., the Victorian is
the only batsman with four scores of
over 300 in first-class cricket,
.
Racquet and haw.
“Hotham”: The Australian selectors
have picked Hopman, McGrath, Quist
and Turnbull for the third Test with the
English tennis team beginning on the
Kooyong courts at Melbourne on Decem-
ber 30. The doubles pairs will be
Hopman-Quist, Turnbull-McGrath. The
fi rs t p a j r have been specially selected
w j t h the idea of forming a permanent
Australian doubles team so that Craw-
forci ma y be reserV ed for singles matches.
“Netherway”: Queensland will be
strongly represented in the Australian ten-
nis championships. The men are Moon,
Cummins and Goodwin; the women,
Mesdames Molesworth and Westmacott.
Mrs. Molesworth won her eighth Queens-
land title in Brisbane recently by beat-
ing Mrs. Crawford. She won the Aus-
tralian championship in 1922-23, and
seems to be back to her best form. She
has already beaten Joan Hartigan in
Queensland this season, and if the pair
meet in Sydney the battle will be some-
thing to remember.
* * * *
“Milton”: Quist had a wonderful run
in the Queensland championships, for,
after winning the singles from Crawford
and with McGrath beating the opposi-
tion in the doubles, he and Mrs. Westma-
cott took the mixed doubles. The general
opinion is that the trip abroad has trans-
formed this player out of all knowledge.
So good a judge as Harley Mathews
thinks he is our future champion and
may go farther than Crawford.
sj- * * *
“Top Spin”: The American tennis
ranking list looks queer without the name
of Vines on top. Shields leads ; then
come Allison, Stoeffen, Sutter, Mangin,
Wood, Grant, Parker, Gledhill and Lott.
Helen Jacobs, who won the national
singles from Helen Wills-Moody, tops
the women’s list, with Helen second.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The likeable
Ellsworth Vines, now relegated to the
professional ranks, has a neat wit. When
he and Perry were playing in America,
the Englishman, who is never what the
Yanks call a “dumb-bell,” couldn’t make
out how Vines got so quickly from the
baseline to the net unless he footfaulted.
When the pair were giving a radio talk
together Perry referred to this while speak-
ing his piece. When Vines’s turn came
he was asked what he considered his best
shot. Said the Yank: “Some say my
forehand, some my backhand ; Mr. Perry
here says my footfault is my best shot.”
* * * *
“Methuselah”: Old enough to know
better will be the general verdict on
Clarence Charest, who, at the age of 50,
has just won the veterans’ tennis cham-
pionship of the United States. He took
it previously in 1929 and 1932, and that
in spite of the fact that he is minus his
right arm. Queensland’s St. John was
minus a right hand. That did not pre-
vent his being a class tennis player, a
good club cricketer and a Rugby Union
full-back.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: The action of the
English Rugby Union some time ago in
cancelling relations with the French R.U.
because of the prevalence of veiled pro-
fessionalism has alarmed me ncnui
nis heads, who fear something of the sort
in their case. The special committee of
the French tennis federation has issued
a report recommending a drastic tighten-
ing of the amateur rules and giving clear
definitions of what constitutes profes-
sionalism. “Travelling expenses are
among the stumbling-blocks, and recent
revelations in this regard caused the re-
fusal by France of an invitation to send
a team to India.
* * * *
“Rev Knucklebone”: The Australian
tennis heads, who keep as careful an eye
on the bawbees as the next lot, are very
worried about France. In 1928 the
French Government weighed in with an
entertainments tax and promptly levied on
the takings of the tennis players m the
championships, in spite of furious pro-
tests from all concerned. Since then the
Government has continued to collect
under formal protest, and has already lost
two lawsuits in connection with the mat-
ter, whilst it is busy fighting a third.
There are 15,000 frogskins belonging to
Australia held up in this fashion.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Cash Amateur”: More than one Aus-
tralian amateur golfer is employed by
firms selling golf requisites, and the new
definition of a professional as an em-
ployee of a golfing firm who plays in
tournaments or competitions “with a
view to furthering his employer’s in-
terests” is causing some searching of con-
sciences. The rule will be hard to apply,
for it will be necessary to prove that the
player was on the job to push the sale of
his firm’s goods or otherwise advertise
its wares. On the other hand, if the
firm uses his successes to boost the goods
it sells, there would be no doubt about
the player losing his amateur status under
the rule even if he has not consented to
the advertisement of his prowess.
“Hamilton”: For some reason or other
Queensland golfers rarely venture down
to big southern meetings. The coming
year is likely to see a change in this
respect, for already the Victoria Park
club is raising a fund to send its pro-
fessional, A. E. Gazzard, to Sydney for
the Australian meeting and to Melbourne
for the centenary shivoo; and Brown
may accompany him. Queensland is keen
on having an Australian championship
meeting on one of its courses, and the
appearance in the South of these two
players and of other amateurs and pro-
fessionals will be useful propaganda to
this end.
* * * *
“Brassey”: The cables told us the other
day of an English golfer who, though he
(Continued on next page .)


MICK SIMMONS
“Firearms and Ammunition
Specialists
A .303 Rifle
L
for 50/-
A further purchase
from the Federal
Government!
303 MARTINI-ENFIELD
SINGLE SHOT RIFLES
guaranteed in perfect mechani-
cal order and fitted with
BRAND - NEW ENGLISH
BARRELS.
A limited number only at 50/-
These rifles are extremely accu-
rate; the strength, reliability and
speed of the Martini “falling
block” action are too well known
amongst well-informed riflemen
to need our endorsement.
Chambered and regulated for
the .303 British MARK VI
Cartridge. The _ Military Back-
sight is marked in ranges up to
1800 yards.
.303 CAL. MARK VI
CARTRIDGES
12/6 Per 100
(Freight extra on Cartridges)
Representative Lines of
SPORTING RIFLES
'"om Mick Simmons' Great Stocks!
ƒ
No. 2—T HE MAINE
SPECIAL BOLT ACTION
RIFLE, 22-cal., take-down, with
safety bolt. For short, long or
long-rifle cartridges; 21in. round
barrel ; weight, about
3|lb 37/6
Postage, 2/-;. Other States, 3/6
No. 12—WINCHESTER
SINGLE SHOT RIFLE,
MODEL 60, for 22 short,
long or long-rifle rimfire cart-
ridges; 23in, round steel barrel,
one-piece pistol-grip stock, bolt
action, ladder rear- and gold
bead front-sights; weight,
4ilb 45/-
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-
No. 11—STEVENS’ BOLT
ACTION REPEATING
RIFLE, 22-cal.; magazine holds
14 short, 12 long or 10 long-
rifle cartridges, mixed or sepa-
rate ; 22in. round barrel, slide
action, gold bead front- and
ladder rear-sights; weight, about
4*lb 72/6
Carriage Paid.
R.eloaders !
We can Supply
HIGH POWDER
SMOKELESS RIFLE
POWDERS
Du Pont No. 80, per lb. .. .... 27/0
Hercules Sharp Shooter, per lb. 30/-
Write for Mick Simmons’ comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Post Free.
MickSimmonsltd.
HAYMAKKET. SYDNEY.
“The Premier Sports Organisation of Australia”
plays consistently off a 20 handicap, is
totally blind as the result of a war injury.
Sydney Jhas another example of a blind
golfer in Captain Sydney Nobbs, of
Manly. Like the Englishman, he gets his
direction from a friend and plays accord-
ing to what the latter tells him. He does
not take his golf seriously, but can put
up quite a good game, driving especially
well. This fact bears out a theory much
advocated by old-time professionals, who,
when they had a pupil who insisted in
hitting at a teed ball instead of swinging,
used to bandage his eyes to cure the
fault.
* * * *
“Married Golfer”: Sydney saw some-
thing new in golf tournaments the other
day, when the first Bachelors’ Cup ever
played for in the Bridge City was won
by H. C. Barnett. The battle was waged
on Barnett’s home course, Bonnie
Doon, and he won with a net 62, his
handicap being 24. The field was a strong
one, including State amateur champion
Hattersley. C. G. Oriell, who donated
the cup, had the best scratch score with
75. The winner queered the pitch by
getting married the same evening.
* He * *
“Ballarat”: The rules committee of
St. Andrews last week sat in solemn
conclave and decided that stymies on
sand greens be abolished. This was done
at the earnest prayer of Bendigo (Vic.)
G.C., whose members found it impos-
sible to negotiate the infuriating stymie
on their sand patches round the holes.
Since the stymie is only allowed in match
play, anyway, Bendigo could have
dodged the trouble with less difficulty had
it confined itself to stroke, bogey and
par play. In any case, the published fact
that a town like Bendigo cannot manage
grass greens on its golf courses is a poor
advertisement for local golfers.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: The Victorian Golf
Association proposes to alter its consti-
tution, and the
clubs have been
notified accord-
ingly. The main
object is to make
the association a
more financial in-
stitution able to
promote the in-
terests of the
game on a larger
scale than hereto-
fore. It is pro-
posed to give two
delegates to each
“c o n s t i t u ent”
club, one to each
metropolitan club
inside a 25-mile
radius, and one
to each country
sub-district. Con-
stituent clubs are
to pay a levy of
2s. 6d. per mem-
ber per year, and
Is. 6d. for each
provisional mem-
ber. Metropoli-
tans will pay Is.
6d. and 6d. and
country clubs
with a member-
ship of 100 and
over £3' 3s. p.a.
Those numbering
less than 100
members get off
with £2 2s.
“Divot Digger”: An English journal
has an interesting yarn of an associate’s
experience on a French holiday-resort
golf course. Driving off from the first
tee she sliced badly and sent the bail
through the window of a near-by cafe.
She had just played her third when she
was overtaken by a waiter with an en-
velope ; in this was the bill for the broken
window. The faithful servitor took no
chances. Tray in hand he followed the
window-breaker round the whole 18
holes, refusing to leave her till the cash
came to hand. Members of the A.I.F.
who served in France will easily credit
the story.
Car and Cycle
“Ostler Joe”: Lots of people anxious
to shine as racing motorists in Sydney
have been blocked by the expense of a
car of the right type. The Dirt-track
Car Racing Club at Granville has made
a new departure by setting up a com-
munity car for its members. It is a four-
cylinder R. and R. with a single seat for
the driver. It may work all right, but
a motor-car is. very much like a horse
in that it is quite possible for one man
to spoil a mount that was entirely satis-
factory in the hands of another. The
language of a driver who takes his turn
with a car that has had its mouth and
temper wrecked by his predecessor is
likely to give the D.R.C. some anxious
moments.
“Romany”: Australia has not yet cot-
toned to the motor caravan, which has
taken Europe and America by storm,
though there have been one or two tenta-
tive trips. There will be interest in the
Australian adventures of two young
Yankee women, Mrs. Roosevelt and Miss
Olmsted, who got off the boat at Perth
with their caravan to tour Australia. The
pair left N’Yark in March and travelled
via Europe across Asia to Java, whence
they shipped to Westralia. The trip
should have tested their caravan pretty
thoroughly, but some of our Australian
“roads” are likely to try it to the limit.
* * * *
“Jacques”: The French Government
has arrived at the conclusion that taxa-
tion based on car horse-power is wrong
in principle. It is proposed to replace
the h.-p. tax with an increased one on
petrol. The idea is that the more a car-
owner uses the roads which the Govern-
ment has to maintain, the more he will
pay for the privilege. This will be
welcomed by the small, week-end motor-
ist with his modest run of a few miles
with the missus and the kids. The gay
lads who make the roads dangerous night
and day all the year round are not so
well pleased.
* * * *
“Whizz”: The Continental makers of
racing cars who have this year refused
to supply models to British drivers may
be sorry they spoke. Some of the big
British firms have taken up the challenge,
“See me hold up me hand ?”
“No.”
“Hear me sing out ?”
“No.”
“Then I’m no good on me job. I’ll send in me resignation
and go on the dole.”
and cars are already building for two
racing teams who will compete in the
big European events. One team will be
led by Eyston and the other by Kaye
Don. British makers, with the exception
of the Bentley firm, now amalgamated
by the Rolls-Royce people, have long
given up specialising in racing models.
Still, the country which turned out
Campbell’s Bluebird and other fliers can
be trusted to devise something which will
make the best of the Italian and French
specialists sit up.
* * * *
“Pore du Chemin”: The growing list
of motor casualties in Britain, many of
them “repeats” by the same drivers, has
led one Narston, president of the road-
haulage association, to suggest the brand-
ing of offending drivers. Any private
driver with two serious accidents against
him should be compelled to carry a large
yellow disc on his car and have his speed
limited to 25 m.p.h. Another accident
would mean a red disc and limitation
to 20 m.p.h. Much easier and more effec-
tive would be the gaoling without the
option of road hogs responsible for these
accidents. The practice, as common in
Australia as in Britain, of letting these
thugs off with a paltry fine only enequr-
ages them.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Motor-cyclists are tuning-
up for the Australian Grand Prix which
will be run at Phillip Island (Vic.) on
January 29, entries closing on January
15. Inter-State entries will be at half
rates and late entries at double. There
will be massed starts, the positions to be
decided by ballot. There are four events:
Senior (100 miles), Junior (75 miles),
Lightweight (75 miles) and Sidecar (50
miles).
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: Annoyed at being
again passed over as the venue of an
Australian Grand Prix for motor-cycles.
Queensland has resolved to have a G.P.
of its own. In addition to the Senior
event there will be a Junior race, allee
same Phillip Island and the Isle of Man.
The Senior will be over 100 miles and
the Junior over 50. The Kingston cir-
cuit, claimed to be the best in Australia,
will be used.
Miscellaneous
“Huon”: Following ,on protests from
the other States, Tasmania, which is run-
ning the next race for the King’s Cup at
Hobart, has altered the course so as to
avoid the rough water at Derwent
mouth which proved so disastrous in
1927. The start will now be two miles
above that for the former course, finish-
ing at Self’s Point. Recently, when con-
ditions were very rough in the lower
river, this course was used for the Tas-
manian championship eights and proved
entirely satisfactory.
*** - *
“Spinnaker”: Sydney boat-sailing
enthusiasts have thought better of their
refusal to take part in the 18-footer
championships in Brisbane shortly. Fol-
lowing on the receipt of a warm letter
from Queensland, two boats, Australia
and H. C. Press, will make the journey.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The Australian Univer-
sities’ Rugby Union team to tour Japan
leaves Sydney on December 30. The
team includes players from every Univer-
sity in Australia save that of Tasmania,
and this is reported to have given the
Nipponese great satisfaction as showing
the country has to be combed for a col-
lection worthy to tackle Old Japan. It
is also a great advertisement for the
growth of the amateur code in Australia,
and points out to school and University
athletes thinking of changing their code
the advantages of the one which is played
in quarter of the globe.
* * * *
“Yarker” : That Rugby League “Cum-
berland” team composed of players from
Lancashire and Yorkshire clubs (B.
13/12/’33) has a counterpart in the
“Wales” side which is to stage an “inter-
national” with the Kangaroos on Decem-
ber 30. The professional game has never
taken root in Wales. The Lancashire
and Yorkshire clubs, however, are full
of ex-Rugby Union players from Wales,
lured by the pay, which is more than
most of them got as miners and dockers
in Southern Wales. The Welsh “inter-
national” side is made up of these
players—seven players from Lancashire
clubs and the balance from Yorkshire
ditto.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The stage is all set for the
amalgamation of the Victorian F.A. and
F.L. A committee has drafted a scheme
which has been agreed to by the senior
body, the Association. The League is to
consider it at a meeting this week. The
Association agrees to play under the rules
of the National Football Council, while
each side, under the agreement, respects
the other’s rights to grounds and permits
free transfer of players from one body to
the other. It is the biggest move made in
the Australian code since the League
broke away years ago, and is un-
doubtedly prompted by the increasing
vogue of the Rugby Union game in the
Victorian capital.
* * * *
“Blue Chalk”: Walter Lindrum, who
has been touring South Africa and India
with Clark McConachy, was to have cast
up in Melbourne before Christmas. His
steamer, the Cathay, is running late
owing to losing a propeller, so his arrival
has been put back to the end of this
week. There is no word as to whether
McConachy is with him, but doubtless
the champion will give exhibitions after
he has settled down, with nephew Horace
to help him. Englishman Joe Davis has
been threatening to come out for a tour
of Australia, and this will probably be
an item on next season’s programme.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: T. E. Hampson, the
N.S.W. amateur, put up a great sprint
performance in winning the first division
of a special 100-metres sprint at the Syd-
ney inter-club championships. Hampson
was clocked to cover the distance in
10 9-10 sec. —a tenth of a second faster
than Carlton’s State and Australian record
put up in 1928. World’s figures for the
distance (109.362 yards) are 10 l-ssec. by
American negro Tolan in 1930.
“Spike”: Athletic matters are very
sloppily controlled in N.S.W. The State
A.A.A., which lost all trace of records of
Metcalfe’s high-jump figures, is again in
a tangle over the visit of Metcalfe and
Hampson to Maoriland. The Australian
Union sanctioned the tour on November
15, and, though the dogs have been
barking it for weeks, the State body has
suddenly announced it knows nothing
about it and feels insulted by the Aus-
tralian Union taking action. Another
case is that of I. S. Drew, one of the
Empire’s foremost distance runners. He :
joined the Y.M.C.A. club after his recent
arrival from England and was casually
entered for a two-mile race in the Syd-
ney inter-club tourney. He won, but was
disqualified because his club didn’t
trouble to have his clearances registered.
The loss of the race meant the loss Of
the Dempster Cup to the Y.M.C.A.
* * * *
“Stepper”: If the Melbourne cen-
tenary celebrants go on inviting any
more overseas notables to perform in the
Cabbage Garden capital the local popu-
lace will have to camp in the backyards.
The latest is the negro runner Tolan,
who has been asked by the Victorian
professional peds. to show his paces
against Austin Robertson and others. If
Tolan, now a pro., is at all up to his
amateur form of two years ago it is
doubtful if anyone can be found in Aus-
tralia to give him a race in scratch events.
Tolan specialises in metre races, but has
done his 100-yards best in 9 2-ssec. We
have no professional in Australia who
can get within coo-ee of that.


A GALLERY OF GOLFERS.
No. 18.
Roaming Round Riversdale.
Riversdale justly claims to be one of
Victoria’s oldest golf clubs, since it was
launched in 1894. Those responsible
were H. W. McLeod, the actual origina-
tor ; A. W. Harston, the first president;
and F. J. Andrew, the first captain.
The first links were on the slopes of
Mont Albert. The course was laid out on
the catch-as-catch-can principle, and
there was no one to say the adventurers
nay, or hint at ground rents or fees.
About the only charge on members was
the rent of the club building, a lordly
edifice of one room which served as
dressing- and tea-room and nineteenth
hole in one. A monthly rental of ss.
was exacted for the use of this, no doubt
as compensation for the cows whose shel-
ter it had once been.
Then in 1907 the younger members
began to complain that the surroundings
were not up to modern standards. After
much cogitation, an area at East Camber-
well was selected, and here the club sat
down in peace for 16 years. By that time
suburbia was invading the once-rural
fastnesses of Camberwell, and the club
decided on another shift. This time the
choice fell on St. John’s Wood, Burwood,
where a fine freehold property was
acquired.
The course is a typical inland one
with magnificent views of the Dandenong
and other ranges which encircle it on
three sides. It is rolling, well-grassed
down country, and the layout, supervised
by honorary architect Bidstrup, an enthu-
siastic member, is a thoroughly sporting
one. The once-open land is now becom-
ing clothed in trees, some 3500 of which
have been planted.
The club is only nine miles from
Prince’s Bridge, and, in addition to the
rail service to Warburton station (five
minutes from the course), the Glen
Waverley electric trains now stop at
Jordanville station on-the links.
The clubhouse was originally the coun-
try residence of Sir Redmond Barry, and
has been remodelled and added to until
it is as up-to-date in appearance and
appointments as any of its contem-
poraries.
Prominent officials in addition to those
mentioned have been A. Halley, George
Tallis, Alex. McNeil and C. M. Newman,
presidents; the present holder of the
office is Ivor Evans. Notable players
have been A. E. Gill, amateur champion
of Australia in 1906 and now secretary
of Indooroopilly club in Queensland;
F. G. Murdoch, winner of the Victorian
and N.S.W. amateur championships in
1912 and 1923 respectively ; and many
others, including Joe Kirkwood, who
was the professional for some time.
Ticking ’em off with card and pencil
is the handicapper, John Way. He
is a company manager when not engaged
in giving his victims on the course the
shivers. His hat is said to have got that
way through his habit of jumping on it
when he finds he has under-estimated
some player’s golfing capacity. A. J.
Langley, complete with pipe and
urbanity itself in appearance, is the cap-
tain. His handicap is 15, and off the
links banking is his concern.
Bearded and beglassed is Alexander
McNeil, president from 1899 to 1914.
He is chairman of Briscoe’s, Ltd., hard-
ware merchants. In fourth place, lengthy
and with a good crop of eyebrows at
least, we have Bill Wilton, an ex-captain,
and a good double of Walter Hagen,
save for his handicap, which is 18. He is
managing director of Auto Finance, Ltd.
Fifth, we have the forthright present-
ment of J. H. (“Governor”) King, famed
as Riversdale’s most youthful veteran. An
old member, he swings a useful club
off 18 and is a retired business man.
Another of the club’s early vintages is
R. E. Vernon, who, in spite of his long
standing with Riversdale, is hot off the
10 mark. A dentist, he is notable as
always being willing to let the other
chap take a disputed hole.
J. H. Lemon belies his name, for, as
Frith shows, he is sweetness itself. An
ex-skipper of Riversdale, he is its official
wit to-day ; in business J.H. is connected
with Abel, Lemon and Co., merchants.
Breathing proud defiance to the tonsorial
artists is George Naismith, Riversdale’s
professional. He won the Victorian pro-
fessional title last year and was runner-
up for the open, while he has many other
good performances to his credit.
C. M. Newman, looking ready to face
the worst in a cheerful spirit, was presi-
dent from 1915 to 1933. The kindliest
of souls, he is a retired managing direc-
tor of Howard Smith. E. J. Adams, who
follows, is as imperturbable in his por-
trait as he is in his consulting-room, he
being a dentist. E.J. is one of the many
Riversdale members —see above —who
have evidently lost all faith in hair-
restorers.
Eleventh in the pillory is Ivor Evans.
He is managing director of Briscoe’s and,
like Adams, can grow a moustache of sorts,
anyway. Next, with the demoniac smile,
is F. G. Howe, whose expression sug-
gests he feels he is one up on the handi-
capper. Off the fairway he is a stock and
station agent. Russell Martin, who comes
next, looking uncommonly like lon
Idriess, is a leading member of the
committee. To him succeeds George
Osbaldstone. His expression may be
due to having found a printer’s error in
a proof of the club’s wine list, he being
a member of the inky trade himself.
Saturnine and waiting for the finish of
the latest golf yarn at the nineteenth is R.
J. Walkley. A company director, he is
known as “Little Lord Fauntleroy
why, the Deuce knows, for curls are not
his strong point, as the drawing shows.
Next in order is Dr. E. F. Scanlon, a
new member but already a well-liked
one. At present the handicapper has
diagnosed his • golf as calling for a 27
handicap.
Seventeenth is J. B. Tait, another long-
marker. He is a barrister in his leisure
hours. A. E. Perry, of the winning smile
and the soup-plate glasses, is a commer-
cial traveller. The records are silent as to
his golfing status. Howard Barrett, the
cheerful lad with the Jack Lang chin,
plays a good game off 15. He is secre-
tary of the Children’s Hospital, and in
the club a valued member of the house
committee. T. E. Dough ton, anotherof
the lads with the cheerful smile that dis-
tinguishes Riversdalers, but with more
hair than most of them, is an ex-captain
and delegate to the V.G.A. He is
managing director of Thos. Evans.
A. E. Creal, looking ready for anyone
and anything anywhere, is manager and
secretary of Riversdale. As his map
indicates, he is an ex-naval man. Leo
Caro, whose bumper seems in imminent
danger of setting his nose on fire as is
his habit —is a hardware merchant. He
is a distinctly useful golfer, moreover,
on the 12 mark. R. W. Warrell, carry-
ing all before him, is a 27-marker. He
and Lemon (No. 7) are known in the
club as “The Twins.” An importer in
private life.


A Policy
«/ He/p/fi/neff/
P. & C. was the first Life Office in Australia to
A apply Co-operation to Life Assurance. In adopting
this principle it undertook a policy of greater help-
fulness and service to members. The passing years have
proved how faithfully its aim has been carried out. The
spectacular growth of the Company proves how much
such a plan was needed and appreciated.
In joining the P. & C. you, too, may
enjoy the extra benefits of co-operation.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director: Chairman of Directors:
H. FELL. Hon. A. K. TRETHOWAN, M.L.C.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
Hotel Grand Central, Ltd.,
151 Clarence Street
( Looking down Barrack Si. and Martin Place)
Just about one minute from the
G.P.O. and about the same distance
from the big underground Wynyard
Square Railway Station. The Hotel
will be found most comfortable in all
detail for tourists and their families
and friends to lunch and dine. Lux-
urious Lounges and Dining Room.
The management assures you of
every comfort and service. Where
you pay for your room only: Single
Rooms from 4/ 6; Double Rooms
from 9/- per night. All Meals a la
carte. Garage adjacent. Complete
Sample Rooms available.
Centrally Situated and
in the Keart of the
City.
g
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
SHEARING TECHNIQUE.
“Morobe”: “Kieta’s” remarks (B.
13/12/’33) re Hawkesbury shearing holds
are not those of a practical shearer. For
a small man (I am sft. in my socks)
to straddle a big sheep going down the
last side is idiotic. Longwools are
notorious kickers. Any big sheep has
only to give a good heave and the shearer
is gone a million, while the sheep gallops
down the board with the fleece trailing
like a bridal veil.
To let a sheep’s head and neck lie in
the manner “Kieta” advocates entails an
unnecessary movement when down to the
flank, as the sheep must sit upright at that
stage with its head about level with
the shearer’s chest. The “tightly-stretched
skin is not “desirable.” In either
machine- or blade-shearing the tighter the
skin is stretched the farther the machine
or shears have to travel. All “big gun”
shearers “dump” their sheep, more or
less ; using the “long blow” up the first
side. A shearer just keeps the skin tight
enough to avoid “bootlaces,” and in that
largely lies the secret of big tallies.
A learner in ’B9, I shore at Haddon
Rig and Bullarora the first years those
sheds installed Wolseley machines. I have
run shearing contracts for the Federal
S. S. Co. and J. H. Young and Co.
from Juandah (Q.) to Casterton (Vic.),
and have shorn in sheds from Long-
reach to Port Wakefield and Lucindale
(S.A.). I state most emphatically that to
allow a sheep’s head and neck to sag
between the operator’s legs is something
that simply “isn’t done” in the best
shearing circles.
THE SULPHUR IN WOOL.
“lass”: Wool protein is exceptionally
rich in sulphur, but the C.S.I.R. says the
only method of supplying sulphur is per
medium of amino-acid cystine, which con-
tains about 30 p.c., and which is yielded
by most proteins usually in the jumbuck’s
diet. The substance, however, is present
in unusually large amounts in bloodmeal,
and an experiment conducted by the
C.S.I.R. a couple of years ago resulted
in an increased yield of 35 p.c. by sheep
receiving a supplement of bloodmeal over
controls getting the same feed and
management minus the meal.
There does not seem much doubt that
cystine is the limiting factor in wool
growth, and the man who can discover
a more convenient source of supply will
do our wool industry a great service. To
date the only vegetable found to be rich
in cystine is the rubber plant.
In two very recent experiments sul-
phur and flowers of sulphur were fed and
careful records kept of body weights and
wool yield of the sheep receiving them,
as against the controls on the same
ration minus the sulphur. In both cases,
results were negative—in fact, the con-
trols showed a little more favorably. It
seems futile, therefore, to feed sulphur.
Rather, the aim should be to encourage
herbage rich in protein which will fur-
nish it in the only form in which the
sheep are able to utilise it for wool pro-
duction.
LINE-BREEDING.
“Harrowby”: “Bahb Dwyer” (B.
6/12/’33) propounds logical views for
the most part, but several of his sugges-
tions are fundamentally unsound. Ani-
mal-husbandrymen can learn much from
the poultry-breeder. As skilled breeders
of thoroughbred stock, poultrymen, col-
lectively, stand supreme. After having
bred both animals and poultry I say con-
clusively that poultry is the harder to
breed true to a fixed type.
“Bahb Dwyer” states that, where rigid
culling is necessary, something is wrong
with either the breeding or feeding. 1
do not agree with him. There is a cer-
tain stage in the history of a breed, be
it animal or avian, when that breed
reaches an almost homogeneous state.
Breed-character has been the centre of
profound concentration for so many
generations that variance of progeny is
negligible. The Gallus Bankiva, or
jungle fowl, is homogeneous because its
genesis as a breed is lost in sheer anti-
quity. Most breeds of poultry are so
young, comparatively speaking, that vari-
ance from breed-character is marked.
From the point of view of type, the
progeny of a single pair is often quite
heterogeneous. This is proved by the
fact that the oldest breeds are the easier
to produce true to type. That antiquated
Asiatic breed the Light Brahma is fairly
easy to breed, yet the Columbian Wyan-
dotte, which is identical in color, is very
hard to breed to any degree of uniformity
of color. In the same way fecundity, or
egg-laying ability, is bred within a breed.
This explains why heavy culling is neces-
sary, and will be necessary for many
more generations.
Line-breeding, the object of which
is to gradually weed out undesirable
traits and their source and stabilise good
features, largely governs the percentage
of culls. A strain that has been line-bred
for two generations would therefore be
more subject to a large percentage of
cullable stock than one line-bred for
10 generations. Either breed-character or
extreme fecundity, or a combination of
both, is striven for.
Personally, I usually have an excellent
idea as to what quality of stock
my sires will produce, because they are
line-bred. I know what that sire’s sire
was prone to throw, and in many cases
the capabilities of his grandsire, so that
such a test and the invariable probable
waste of a season are not risked. I expect
that sire to transmit many good points,
but I also expect the transmission of a
few undesirable ones, else I would with
ease produce the perfect bird. It is quite
impossible, “Bahb Dwyer,” to secure or
bree.d a sire that will transmit no un-
desirable characteristics, either in bird
or beast.
BALANCED RATIONS.
“Agrarian”: “Hatter,” writing about
mortality of stock and improved pas-
ture (B. 29/11 / ’33), should have said more
about balanced-ration effects. His illus-
tration of pigs deriving iron from the soil
that they root in is pointed by the fact
that McCollum kept stied-up swine
healthy by adding wood-ashes to the
swill. Those not getting ashes died of
paralysis. On the Monaro and Snowy
Rivers wild animals sought special
natural licks, and so strong was their
desire to have access thereto that ambus-
cades were made where the licks were
available and the animals almost extermi-
nated.
The point that “Hatter” missed is
the varying value of oaten-hay accord-
ing to soil conditions when growing. The
liability to bloat and toxaemia on clover
likewise varies with the soil. From cor-
respondence with McCollum when he
was at Wisconsin University I learned
to use salt 50, super. 30 and wood-ashes
20 as a supplement to the fodder ration
of dairy cows, with good results. It was
my job to advise dairymen. On freshly-
burnt country, stock lick up ashes and
alkaline earths. The young, tender vege-
tation is more easily digested and it is
better balanced in mineral nutrients,
because it also gets more ash from the
right herbage and wood chat was burnt.
“Albany”: “Agrarian” and “Hatter”
(B. 29/11 / ’33) seem to me to touch the
same fundamental from different angles.
We (and the other animals), victims of
“improvements” on Nature, when con-
sidered chemically, can only be what goes
down our necks in solids, liquids and
gases. Modern processing and fast
transport should correct, rather than
aggravate, the want of balance, but, con-
sidered broadly, races of human and
other animals must largely take their
racial characteristics from the products
of the soil, water and air of their habitat.
We have so “improved” on Nature that
we speed up production and shorten the
working lives of the animals and plants
which feed us, sacrificing real quality
for quantity. McCollum, in his “Newer
Knowledge of Nutrition,” proved, both
with babies and other animals, that those
born of parents of enfeebled health, and
born with almost total blindness as a
result, could be brought well on the way
to normal sight through balanced feed-
ing. Conversely, he proved that those
commencing normally could be made
subnormal and later returned to appar-
ent normal by variations of diet.
TRAINING TO THE BAIL.
“Aerogenes”: The method of the
farmer friend of “Jaccart” (B. 29/11 /’33)
who drags his heifers into the bails with
a winch may be “infallible,” but it is
like chopping off a man’s foot to cure
an ingrowing toenafi—certain, but un-
duly drastic.
Personally, I prefer to induce my
heifers to come of their own accord. As
calves, they take their milk in little bails,
which any man could make. They are
handled often during the first two years,
and are so quiet that they don’t bat an
eyelash when I pass them.
A month or so before they are due to
calve they are brought in and run with
the milking cows. With them they go
from paddock to paddock, into the yards
and bails. We pass them straight through
the bails until they have calved, when
they are no trouble to secure and milk.
They escape the double excitement of
calving and being dragged about on the
end of a very unreasonable rope.
The winch is handy, no doubt, to
haul out the corpses which that farmer’s
methods must occasionally provide.
ABERDEEN ANGUS BUTTER SIRES.
“Golightly”: I advise farmers (not
dairymen) who want the rich butter-fat
content of Jersey-cow’s milk for home
consumption, without the scrub offspring
of a Jersey cow and nondescript bull, to
go baldheaded for the Aberdeen Angus
sire. The further my experience goes
with the cross, the more astonished I am
with the prepotence of the Angus and
its capacity to mop up the defects of the
Jersey milking-frame and coat color. Of
course, to get these results a pedigree
Angus bull is necessary ; and I advise
buyers to take nothing on chance with
the pedigree, because the breed is so pre-
potent over others that a bull from a
brindle cow could pass for purebred.
The best way is to get in touch with
A. J. Tanner, secretary of the Aberdeen
Angus Society.
BLOAT.
“Bahb Dwyer”: In the process of
digestion bacteria do useful work in
releasing the nutrients contained in the
fibre. Their activity produces gases
by fermentation, which normally are ex-
creted. When there is not enough fibre
to occupy the bacteria, they will attack
the starches and sugars, which results
not only in a loss of feeding value but
(through excessive fermentation) in a
plethora of gases which cannot be dis-
posed of quickly enough. The acute
condition called hoven or bloat results.
Bloat is supposed to be caused by ex-
cessive consumption of young lucerne or
grasses only, but other feeds may also
produce it. An unusually liberal allow-
ance of pollard or maizemeal may cause
it, whilst turnips, potatoes, cabbage or
brewers’ grains also are dangerous, the
quantity which may be so described be-
coming smaller when the animals are
“unused to the feed.
Some authorities say cattle on young
pasture are specially liable to bloat. The
provision of some fibrous hay in the
paddock will cause them to turn instinc-
tively from dangerous fodder when bloat
threatens. This accords with the observa-
tions of dairymen who have sida retusa
on their properties. Cattle will always
consume a little “Paddy’s lucerne” when
there is plenty of more nutritious and
palatable feed offering.
Prevention must always be aimed at,
but the necessary equipment for reliev-
ing bloat should always be kept on hand.
In mild cases, driving the beast for up to
half an hour will cause sufficient excess
breathing to carry away the gases and
give relief. In more severe cases, a piece
of rope saturated with Stockholm tar in-
serted in the mouth as a bit and tied
behind the horns causes swallowing and
stimulates saliva sufficiently to effect a
cure. The trocar* an implement used to
puncture the paunch, should always be
kept on hand, though it should only be
used as a last resource.
The drenching operation is simple and
can be performed by anybody capable
of observing the directions with which
the instruments are always supplied.
After the operation it may be necessary
to leave the sheath of the trocar in for
some hours to allow all the gas to be
carried away. Then internal medicine
should be invoked to prevent any further
fermentation. Half an ounce of chloride
of lime dissolved in a pint of tepid water
may be given every half-hour ; 1 ounce of.
creolin in half a gallon of water may be
given as a drench or may be poured
direct into the paunch through the hol-
low sheath. Constipation frequently fol-
lows bloat, and may be relieved by any
non-irritant laxative drench. Glauber’s
salts is about the best.
GRASSES, GOOD AND BAD.
“U. Murray”: “Hatter’s” observations
(B. 6/12/’33) impel me to record a warn-
ing against species he recommends. On
my property are many acres of sweet-
scented vernal grass which, upon hill-
sides with a southern or eastern aspect,
is spreading fairly fast—and choking out
the more valuable wallaby grass as it
spreads.
Although a perennial, it can only be
ranked with rat-tail fescue (silver
grass). Drying off about the same time,
it offers an even less desirable apology
for dry feed than the silver grass. On
the river-flats, however, it is no less than
a life-size curse, as it is rapidly swamp-
ing out the incomparably more valuable
native and imported grasses and legumes.
Even the rampant subterranean clover
cannot hold out against it —only Pas-
palum dilitatum shows any fight. The
fact that stock will not touch it under
anything like fattening conditions gives
it, of course, a most unfair advantage
over all kinds of palatable herbage.
The dissemination of sweet vernal grass
should be prohibited by law.
Yorkshire fog, though not nearly so
disastrous as vernal grass, should never
be planted where there is any chance of
its spreading on to good country, as it
is also untouched by stock under fatten-
ing conditions, and forms masses of rank
overgrowth, which also have a constant
tendency to spread over the closer-
grazed growths of better herbage. On
hill country, so far as my experience
Q Continued on page 30.)


SINCE 1 & 6<
Atlantic reduces
oil consumption
these three
ways
V Atlantic holds its body
under high heat and there-
fore has less tendency to run
out of loose bearings or pass
through leaky gaskets.
M Atlantic shows no evapora-
V tion loss at 760°F. —twice
the temperature reached by the
parts of your engine which re-
quire lubrication.
Atlantic reduces loss of oil
caused by worn pistons and
rings, since lesser amounts can
pass into the combustion cham-
ber to be blown out of the ex-
haust.
Use also
UNION
WHITE
FLASH
ATLANTIC
PURE PARAFFIN BASE MOTOR OIL
Atlantic Union Oil Co. Ltd., Marketers of Petrols, Industrial Oils, Greases, etc.
AH 5.48
f


Soft and supple
This elastic-sided Abbey Riding Boot
pulls on easily, fits smart and snug,
and is so flexible that it gives the
foot complete freedom of movement.
The soft leather inner lining is extra
comfortable. The smooth upper
slips into the stirrups.... there’s
nothing to catch anywhere. The
sole is made of the toughest leather.
ORDER BY POST
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
are available in all sizes. Specify
width and length, and order, also,
a tin of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d), or a compact cleaning outfit
(2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF. . 39/6
BLACK BOX CALF . . 357-
write FOR NEW CATALOGUE.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 365
DtrX
m
The
BEST
that
MONEY
CAH BUY!
MADE IN
ENGLAND
SWAN
w PENS
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
* Swan * Pens Black or Coloured from 20/-.
•Swan’ Minors from 15/-. • Blackbird ’ Pen*
from 10/-, ‘Swan’ Ink from 6d. per bottle.
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.l.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD.,
181, Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
Use-Suran Ink!
'*llllllll
/,
I
I
England via New York
by the most varied and colorful route, em-
bracing New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Van-
couver, across Canada or U.S.A. to Montreal
and New York.
Next Sailings from Sydney:
January 4tli M.V. Aorangi
~ 10th S.B, Monterey
j> 18th S.S. Makura
February Ist S.S. Niagara
connecting with
THE CUNARD BIG THREE
Berengaria A<mitania Mauretania
54,000 tons 46,000 tons 30,000 tons
which give a weekly express service from New
York to England. The Cunard Line also
offers the choice of the largest Cabin Class
Fleet in the World.
Specially reduced Round the World Tickets
available one way via Suez or the Cape.
Write for full information, or call and discuss
with us the plans of your trip. We can
effect your reservations throughout.
C. & D. Line, 1 Bent Street, Sydney.
Gibbs, Bright & Co., 34 Queen St., Melbourne ;
Brisbane, Adelaide. Perth.
Cunard
NOMINAL PRICE
a/ruct
PHE NOMINAL WEAR
B. V. D. STANDS UP UNDER
THE TOUGHEST
PUNISHMENT
Unknown underwear—looks
like a bargain on the counter
but it just won’t wear.
The initial cost is low—but
the upkeep is terrific.
The real bargains are not
hiding behind “bargain” price
tags—they’re found in under-
wear labelled B. V. D.—under-
wear built to stand up and
“take it.”
When you buy underwear
insist on the famous red
B. V. D. label. It cuts a whale
of a lot off your budget.
Now made in Australia for
THE B. V. D. CO. INC., NEW
YORK
V
/
J
EM?
£TA' l
If any illustration in "The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
goes, it will only sparsely sprinkle itself
about, and afford a mouthful to the rab-
bits. Rabbits relish it, while all domestic
stock avoid it—it seems to be the extreme
hairiness of its leaves which puts stock
off it.
Cocksfoot also has a tendency to form
clumps of coarse uneaten herbage in fat-
tening paddocks, especially under the
shade of trees. But it is at least a thou-
sandfold better grass than Yorkshire fog.
“Beady”: Barley grass-seed is very
bad in the Merriwa district (N.S.W.) this
year. Besides killing many sheep and
dogs, the eyes of cattle and horses are
being affected from the seed entering be-
tween hoofs and hair and causing blood-
poisoning. Only constant attention with
tweezers and disinfectant will prevent
serious loss. In autumn and winter
barley grass is a welcome fodder ; but
it isn’t worth the candle in spring. Wim-
mera rye grass will hold it in check and
serves the same purpose of autumn and
jyinter feed, minus danger from seed.
Wimmera rye is simply established here,
without cultivating: 21b. per acre broad-
cast in February will, in a few seasons,
control the pastures.
SHADE YOUR BANANAS.
“Cockyson”: To protect dwarfed
bananas, like Cavendish, against sun-
burn, bring together and tie down the
two leaves immediately above the bunch
to be protected. If the stems are broken
the tied-down leaves quickly wither. If
leaves of the banana-tree are too badly
wind-torn to serve as sunshades, a strip
of Hessian or bagging of any sort answers
the purpose nicely. Protection from the
rays of the midday sun is necessary
where the plantation is sheltered from
passing breezes, and where the weight
of the bunch causes it to rest on the
ground. Tall-growing varieties, such as
“sugars” and plantain, seldom need
shade protection. The constant but slight
swaying of the hanging bunches caused
by the passing breezes is enough to pro-
tect the fruit.
SOIL EROSION.
“Aiwa”: A five-million dollar grant
out of national-recovery funds has been
set aside to deal with soil erosion in
1934. Survey has shown that 75 p.c.
of U.S.A. cultivated land is already
seriously affected and that 126 million
pounds of plant food is removed from
fields and pastures each year, represent-
ing a loss of $200,000,000. The project
aims at treatment of 5,000,000 acres by
terracing and contour drainage under
expert supervision. Landowners will
provide labor and power, and it is
thought that approximately five million
days’ labor will be necessary. The pro-
blem in Australia still awaits the full
consideration that it deserves. Taken
now, it is fairly easy to deal with, and
on most country the measures needed
are preventive rather than remedial;
but the story will be different in half a
century’s time.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Albarmount”: If wedges fly out of
the billet, axe a narrow groove through
the sapwood the full length of the log
on both sides. The wedges will then
grip and burst open the heart.
“Westmount”: Dissolve loz. strych-
nine with a 4oz. bottle of acetic acid
and dilute it in a gallon of water;
this will cut your poison bill by 75 per
cent. Thistle roots should be soaked in
the mixture for a few minutes and then
placed on a sheet of iron which has
been shaped to carry the drainings
back into the mixture tin. Vanilla, sugar
and other decoys are applied in the usual
way when the baits are sufficiently dry.
“Ben”: A handle in the crosscut saw
should be inserted from below ; then the
weight of the saw keeps it always tight.
Taper very slightly and leave an inch or
so fairly big below the socket. This is of
great use in sawing single-handed or
when starting a cut in a log or standing
tree. Hollow out slightly near the top
of handle and you get a good grip that
will not allow saw to slip from you.
“Benbow”: For a maul use dry, hard,
tough-splitting timber with a straight
grain that will beat in. Curly limbs are
useless. In fitting rings, mark each
to meet a mark on end of maul—rings
are seldom made truly round. Sides of
maul should be nearly parallel; only a
very slight bulge towards the middle.
When rings are in position, a few small
metal wedges driven into the ends of
maul, close to rings, will help keep them
on until set. And never allow maul to
get wet. When boring for handle, level
the maul and get someone to plumb the
auger handle as you go. Truer the bore,
truer the blow. A l|in. auger is best.
Don’t try sticking a handle in and wedg-
ing it. Run a sapling through till it
tightens (like a pick-handle). Keep your
handle short and you’ll keep it longer.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
('Transferred from Service Department .)
Method, of ridding young kelpie dogs of
fleas?— 9399.
The .best remedy for fleas is prevention. The
flea lays its eggs on the floor or bedding. In
a few days (3 to 12 in summer but longer in
winter) active footless larvae are born. To keep
fleas down it is therefore necessary to burn
the straw of the dog’s bed about every four
or five days, and to scrub the flooring with
strong disinfectant solutions. Three p.c. creolin
will destroy the fleas, but it is too dangerous
to use on dogs. Powdered naphthalene or pyre-
thrum powder (which must be fresh and pure)
applied to the coat will stupefy the fleas, which
can then be brushed or combed out of the
coat and burned. Keeping a dog free means
constant attention to these details.
Best methods of killing and clearing 100
acres of small green timber which I wish to
convert to grazing land ? Would ringbarking
or cutting timber green be best ? Would ring-
barking be of any advantage where timber has
been cut green years ago and allowed to grow
again ? —9096.
The method depends entirely on the size of
If t] " ees * If the trees are small enough, cutting
2ft. from the ground and knocking off the
shoots as they appear would be the best way,
as the action of sunlight is an important factor
in encouraging grass growth. However, if this
method would entail too much labor, sap-
ringmg is recommended. This is a quicker
method of destroying a tree than' ringbarking,
and is best done in the spring. The sap-ring
varies in depth according to the size of the
trees, but would average about lin. in depth
of wood, and is cut similarly to ordinary ring-
barking. The above applies also to timber
that has already been cut green and allowed
to grow again.
How is (1) red, (2) blue, (3) green and (4)
stone-colored pain} made for use on drays and
waggons, using white lead and raw oil? In
painting farm vehicles and gates in which the
wood is perishing for want of a coat of paint,
is it best to give a coat of raw oil first, and
what should the subsequent coats of paint con-
sist of? —9381.
(1) Red paint of the color usually used on
drays and waggons does not contain white
lead. Paint made with white lead plus a fed
staining pigment would produce a pink. For
a deep-red color the self-colored red only
would be required. This would be ground in
suitable mixing varnish and then reduced with
varnish according to the quality of the material
to be supplied and the drying time required.
(2) and (3) The same applies to blue paint and
green paint, unless the shades be light ones,
in which case you would start with a white
base and add sufficient of the blue or green
until you have produced the required tone. (4)
Stone-colored paint is made on a white-lead
base. The paste lead is broken down with
raw linseed oil and terebine driers in the pro-
portion of Tpint °f driers to a gallon of lin-
seed oil. Stainer is added, either one of the
umbers or siennas, in the necessary quantity
to produce the shade required. In some in-
stances it may be necessary to use two or three
stainers, this being determined solely by the
finishing color desired. When painting farm
vehicles it is customary to prime with a red-
lead primer, and the second coat with a lead-
colored paint made up from white lead, linseed
oil, turpentine and black. These treatments
provide the protecting films for the preservation
of the metal or wood, and the bright color used
for the finish is chiefly ornamentation. (5) It
would be advisable to thin the priming coat
of red-lead paint with an extra quantity of
linseed oil to satisfy the suction of the timber.
All of these lines can be obtained ready for
use, and it would be much safer for you to
apply a reputable brand than attempt to mix
your own materials if you have no practical
knowledge.
How to save tomato seeds ? —9477.
Mature fruit should be selected from the best
quality and healthiest plants. The ripe fruit
is cut in halves across the widest diameter.
The seed and juice is then squeezed into a
vessel and fermented for two days, washed to
free it from all foreign matter and then dried
in the sun.
Formula for making Bordeaux powder, hav-
ing a 50 p.c. copper content ? —9189.
Theoretically, 30 p.c. is the highest propor-
tion of copper possible in a true Bordeaux
powder. Bordeaux is made by combining
copper sulphate (bluestone) with calcium
hydroxide (slaked quicklime), resulting in a mix-
ture of copper hydroxy sulphate and calcium
sulphate or gypsum. But as calcium sulphate
is water-soluble only to the extent of 1 part
in 200, one cannot separate the two. The
resulting powder, after draining and drying,
would be a mixture of the two, containing
about 30 p.c. of copper; A powder with the
copper in the same chemical form as in Bor-
deaux mixture could be made —and is made—
by using sodium hydroxide (caustic soda) in
place of the slaked quicklime. This would
give a mixture of copper hydroxy sulphate and
sodium sulphate. The latter, easily soluble in
water, could be drained and washed out, leav-
ing a paste which, when dry, would contain
up to 56 p.c. of copper—the exact quantity
depending on the purity of the ingredients used.
The recipe for making the bluestone-soda
compound—really an equivalent to the well-
known Burgundy mixture —is: Copper sulphate,
98 p.c. quality, 241 b.; caustic soda, 98 p.c.
quality, 61b. Dissolve the copper sulph. by
suspension in a bag in the surface of 15 gallons
of soft water in a wooden vessel and the
caustic soda by stirring it in 6 gallons in a
separate vessel. Add the latter solution to the
former slowly, stirring constantly. Allow it
to stand for some time until the precipitate
sinks to the bottom, then drain off the liquid
and wash the paste several times with clean
water. Then dry and grind or crush any lumps
to a fine powder.
(1) What is the heating value of mallee
slumps compared with coal, boxwood, briquettes
and general boiler fuel ? (2) Is there any
reason why roots would not be suitable as
boiler fuel ? (3) Is there any difference be-
tween heat value of roots in this district (Man-
angatang-Sea Lake ) and, say, Culgoa or
Kerang ? (4) Is there any difference between
the heat value of yellow and red mallee stumps?
—9354.
(1) The heating value of mallee stumps de-
pends partly on their quality. The average is
about the same as . boxwood. Relative values
are: Calorific value, mallee stumps and box-
wood, 7000-8000 8.T.U.; briquettes, 9500
8.T.U.; black coal, 13,000 B.T.U. (2) No,
except that they may be awkward to handle.
(3) and (4) No appreciable difference.


%
&
FOR 1934
Enjoy real motoring satisfac-
tion in 1934 and get this “ POWER
of difference” into your car.
Fit Leggetts Dynamic Spark
Plugs. The low cost of a set
is a worth-while investment
bringing you easier starting—
sweeter running-
more miles per
gallon—indeed, a
“ Power of differ-
ence.”
Your local garage-
man can supply.
1
33 /15-?
Difiuunw
smm
PLUGS
“The Barrier Miner,”
Broken Hill.
Published since 1888 and circulating
throughout Broken Hill, the West Darling
pastoral country and many of the north-
ern parts of South Australia, “The Barrier
Miner” offers an unequalled service for
readers and advertisers.
.Representatives: F. Jj. Wilson, 30 Car-
rington Street, Sydney; H. J. C. Boyd,
McEwan House, Bittle Collins Street, Mel-
bourne; News, X.td., Adelaide.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN ENGINES OR
PUMPS.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
24381/29 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of his rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO RADIO RECEIVING SYSTEMS.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent No.
23829/29 is prepared to negotiate for the sale
of its rights in the above, or for the granting
of a license to make, use and vend the inven-
tion within the Commonwealth of Australia.
Particulars of the invention obtainable from
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent
Attorneys, Sydney.
The Treasury Bill Question
Australian Dollar Bonds
What is Japan Doing?
Maoriland’s Exchange Tangle
Stocks Worth Consideration
These and other questions vital to inves-
tors are discussed in the DECEMBER
issue of the
“‘WILD CAT* MONTHLY’
NOW ON SALE
Are you in trouble with
your Radio?
The Expert Advice of the Technical Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
will be yours, free of charge.
‘Bulletin” publication—Every Friday
ƒ
AUTOSCREW
DROPPER
8
8
•ii^
nr »\\»
n
5
J
5
o/S
READY TO
ATTACH
THE ONLY
b
3 PLY DROPPER
Prices of
AUTOSCREW Droppers
STOCK SIZE.
(Slotted to suit any Fence).
3 Wire 15, 15 per 100 40/-
Wire T'z, 7' z , per 100 34/-
5 Wire 5,5, 6, 8 .. per 100 34/-
6 Wire 5,5, 6,8, 10 per 100 43/-
6 wire 5,5, 6,8, 12 per 100 46/-
SPECIAL ORDERS (i.e., other than Stan-
dard Stock shown above) are made
any length, and spaced for any number of
wires at short notice to suit any fence.
Price pro rata, according to length.
4 Wire Special Line, 5,5, 6”
20/- per 100.
Freight Paid Tree Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne,
Rockhampton, Townsville, Cairns.
"EVERY DROPPER SAVES A POST.”
Steel Fencing Posts, sft. 6in 1/3 each.
Manufacturers: AUTO SCREW DROPPERS
WORKS, Box 768 G, G.P.0., BRISBANE.
Brisbane Agents: QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTI., LTD., 27 Bowen St., BRISBANE.
s
T
R
0
N
G
E
S
T
M BOUNDARY
IT
6
5
1
FENCE
HAt* CHAIN PANfcLS
The Only Morning Newspaper in
Queensland’s Capital City,
THE COU Rl ER - MAIL
SYDNEY OFFICE: 74 Pitt ST., ’Rhone 85007.
MELBOURNE OFFICE, Newspaper House,
Collins St. ’Phone F 3906.
■AUDIT
•BUREAU OB'
.CIRCULATIONS
THE PALETTE
Recent batch of London purchases for
Sydney National Gallery seems to have
been bought for names. Most of the
fashionable painters of to-day stop sign-
ing their works after they have found
a market, or endeavor to demonstrate
their utter incapacity for practical affairs
by dabbing in one corner symbols which
pretend that they never learned to write.
So one has to take most of the names on
trust. Rembrandt, who learned to write,
as well as to draw, has a perfectly legible
signature on his little etching, which
represents an almsgiving. A straightfor-
ward picture this, with abundant evi-
dences in it that Rembrandt had a seeing
eye, a deft right hand and a sense of
humor. Rushbury, R.A., also writes his
name plainly. He is represented by draw-
ings of street-scenes in Antwerp. Archi-
tectural details are done with the sureness
of technique that renders justice to the
dignity of the buildings without using a
single superfluous line or dot, and his
groupings of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic suggest natural movement. A beau-
tiful draughtsman. For the rest, there isn’t
much for a conscientious critic to enthuse
about. Duncan Grant’s impression of a
road in Sussex captures sunlight very
nicely, but his recipe is old and not con-
fined to observers of Sussex. Augustus
John’s “Reverie” is an interesting ex-
ample of how badly a good technician
can draw and paint when he lets himself
go ; Orpen’s pencil sketch of a head ex-
plains why the original didn’t purchase
it; Epstein’s bust (which came here in
Mrs. Zander’s collection) looks no less
revolting now than it did a few months
ago, when the Gallery Trustees refused to
buy it, and Maurice Lambert’s “Head in
Iron” (which has ears that look as if they
were carelessly chipped in wood and which
otherwise follows the technique of the
manufacturers of modernist gilded heads
for the use of milliners) affords a good
sound reason why his papa desired him
to study music. Lucien Simon’s sketch
of horses makes one sigh for Frank
Mahony, and some imitation palaeolithic
rock drawings of animals by someone
whose name doesn’t matter deepens the
sigh to a moan. Most of the money at
the purchasers’ disposal seems to have
been spent on tongue-in-the-cheek stuff
which inside a generation will have to be
consigned to the Gallery’s chamber of
horrors.
This year’s Christmas novelties at the
Sedon Gallery, Melbourne, comprise a
vast array of etchings, woodcuts and
pencil drawings with Australian, French
and English names attached. John C.
Goodchild’s extensive panel has the merit
of luring the eye deeper than the surface
of the wall. For some reason or other,
some etchers and woodcutters regard this
as anathema in this particular medium,
though why two dimensions should be
better than three is a mystery no layman
can understand —it is certainly easier to
obtain, as any child with a box of chalks
can show. Included in the show is a
single example of Mrs. Goodchild’s
work —a row of hoeing women relieved
against a bright sky. It has even more
of the quality of atmosphere than her
husband’s has. Napier Waller’s design
in black-and-white, “The Labyrinth,” is
more arresting than the academic lay
figures in which he usually specialises.
Murray Griffin’s lithos. are frankly fan-
tastic in color and plainly Japanese in
descent. Norman Lindsay has three new
etchings, including an extraordinarily
intricate population problem called “Cap-
riccio,” solved with his usual skill.
Brother Lionel is represented by some
Spanish studies. To compare them with
those of Mrs. E. Parsons is to realise
how conventions change, though Nature
remains the same. Mrs. Parsons held
with Follingsby the first exhibition ever
seen in Melbourne, and out of it grew
the present National Gallery. The Spains
of Mrs. Parsons and Mr. Lindsay are as
different as chalk and cheese. It would
require a more realistic painter than
either to show us the true Andalusia.
“M.G.S.”: The exhibition of still-life
by Meldrum, Jorgensen, Colahan, Lea-
son and Alma Figuerola at the Meldrum
Galleries, Melb., impressed one as being
in the real sense “modern” art. Each of
these dozen pictures gives an effect of
light and shade, but gives it probably
more accurately than it has ever been
given before. If this is not a true and
rational modernistic development, the
word seems to me to have no sense at all.
It seems to me that the modernists, so-
called and self-styled, who have presented
their distortions of natural form and their
toneless travesties of natural color as a
new statement in art have done so under
a misapprehension, though a quite under-
standable one. They could see that
Nature was infinitely more vivid in color
and more vital in form and stranger in
appearance than anything the academic
painters gave, and they presumed that a
reversion to primitivism in form and bar-
barism in color would give them what
they sought. Moreover, they thought that
arrangement and subject matter would
.give the queerness and unexpectedness
that is actually inherent in Nature and
only reveals itself to patience, research
and humility. In other words, they were
like scientists who, finding Nature behav-
ing quite contrary to accepted conven-
tions and unable to discover the laws gov-
erning its behavior, invent quite arbitrary
ones and fit Nature into their inventions ;
or they revert to the infantile dawn of
science, when astronomy was astrology
and chemistry alchemy. When scientist?
do this we call them quacks, but quacks
are often quite as sincere as scientists.
Many of the modernists are thoroughly
sincere and would cheerfully go to the
stake for their principles, but a readiness
to suffer for a belief is no proof of its
truth.
At Kurrajong House Reuter Hall lately
moved in from Geelong a collection of
sculpture. Hall is an architect and a very
young man, and, as might be expected,
his show is only a promise of what may
some day be. Where he essays a finished
work he is more photographic than real,
but the torso of a bearded Ulysses rising
from the ground has a rude strength,
and an ambitious, almost full-size, figure
of a nude lying prone looks like a defi-
nite impression of something seen, though
the roughness of the handling suggests
a mermaid whose scales have spread.
Some drawings and paintings suffer from
woodenness.
“F.S.”: If old John Hennessy did not
make his appearance at the Melbourne
Athenaeum at this time of the year, it
would be like Christmas without Santa
Claus. The veteran brushman has been
exhibiting as far back as present writer
can remember, and his standard remains
the same —not particularly high but by
no means low. Two competent self-por-
traits mark the pinnacle of his art. A
study of spring blossom is shown. The
plant, whatever it is, only flaunts its
colors for two days every year, and as
Hennessy started his picture when the
sun was shining he sometimes has had to
miss a spring if the luminary happened to
sulk. He has been at it 17 years, and he |
isn’t satisfied with it yet.
“F.S.”: The annual outburst of Christ-
mas art shows coming on top of the
myriad exhibitions of the year recalls the
opinion expressed about this country by
a one-time well-known English painter
named W. Brooke. Brooke was sent out
in the ’forties by the Colonial Office to
paint Sydney, and stayed just as long as
it took the sloop he had come in to pro-
vision and refit. In his report to his
employers he remarked that Australia
was an accursed country and there was
nothing in it to paint.
“M.S.”: I don’t know whether the
Felton Bequest 100 years hence will send
an emissary with an open cheque to the
North Pole because it has heard that an
aged Eskimo has a small Clarice Beckett,
but it seems to me that the art of this re-
markable citizeness of Beaumaris, recently
hung at the Meldrum Gallery, Melbourne,
is of more than ephemeral interest. The
ability to stand outside prejudice is a
rare quality, and Miss Beckett has as little
prejudice towards subject as treatment.
She allows Nature to dictate both to her.
She tackles Bourke-street crawling with
Neon-light snakes with the same objec-
tivity as a seascape, a tarred road, a
gaudy motor-lorry, a telegraph post or a
bush track. Contrast “Grey and Rough”
and its effect of storm with the stillness
of “Foggy Morning” and note how each
has its special and peculiar character,
inherent in the subject. “Winter Even-
ing” is a matter of half a dozen patches
of tone, while “Morning Shadows” is a
complicated pattern with the sunlight de-
fining objects sharply; but there is the
same effect of space in both of them.
Leaving things to Nature has this advan-
tage also ; she is a weaver of designs of
infinite variety and makes man’s efforts
in that direction look beggarly. The
artist who submits to her is credited
with her originality. I was schooled lu
orthodox forms of composition by Van
Raalte, the etcher, but he never showed
me anything so startling as the composi-
tions of Miss Beckett.
Nora Heysen’s show at S. A. Society of
Arts Gallery was a marvellous collection
for a girl in the early twenties. She
challenges her famous father on one side
of his versatile genius, and fairly holds
her own, her flower-studies being nearly
perfect. Their humbler brethren, the
assembled onion and lettuce artd flask,
are the real thing, too. She is now turn-
ing to portraits, and has already won the
Melrose Prize. Powerful, realistic and
deliberately unbeautiful, in the moderq
style, is her study of a satyr; and to
“Ruth,” a farm-girl, all those adjectives
apply. Miss Heysen goes to Europe
with her father in the New Year. She
is to study at the Slade.


Jorrocks v. Jorrocks —Horrocks Co-re.
BY “SPASEBO.”
777 IRST Day. —The newspapers call
/» it a Fashionable Divorce Case. It
is the first time I have seen the
Law at work on intimate domestic rela-
tions.
I gaze at the Judge, pink, stout,
benevolent; then at leading counsel, for
the petitioner, little, pale, shrewd-faced,
quick on the uptake. He is a star of
his profession. His fees in ordinary
times, a reporter tells me, used to be
enormous.
A master of cross-examination, leading
counsel for the petitioner varies his tactics
( like a duellist. To the bumptious witness
ihe is comically deprecating. To the
“A star of his profession.”
friendly ones he is even more friendly.
To the cunning ones he is intimidating.
They all start off glibly enough ; they are
meticulous about times and dates ; they
can remember every detail. Counsel is
charmed with their accuracy. But it
turns out that concerning times and dates
on other occasions they can recollect
little; and before he has finished with
them they don’t know what they have
said or what they are now saying.
Second Day. —A person I feel very
sorry for is the private detective. There
he is, poor fellow, probably a respect-
able man with a family, trying to earn
his living, and the lawyers are tearing
him to pieces. They are making him so
confused that it almost appears as if he
has invented all the evidence instead of
having, as he swears, carefully noted
down everything he saw at the time in a
notebook after consulting his watch.
At times the Judge relieves his bore-
dom by - making witty remarks. And
counsel and the clerks and the policemen
and the pressmen and the deadbeats,
who have come in for warmth and
human interest, laugh deliriously.
Third Day. —Respondent is Mrs. X,
pretty, 28, a daring horsewoman. Peti-
tioner is a merchant, some years older.
They have made a mess of marriage,
that is obvious. Whose fault, who can
say? Probably neither’s. She was an
instrument he could not play on. He was
an instrument she could not play on.
He is an ordinary sort of man, I
should say—friendly, after his fashion. It
is pathetic to see him fighting to be
avenged on someone for the theft of an
instrument that was never responsive to
his fingers. She is a lively, spontaneous
sort of creature. Any natural behavior
on her part, however innocent, would,
it is obvious, be mistaken by him for
wickedness. But she, too, is in a hope-
“To the cunning ones intimidating.”
less emotional muddle. You can tell that
by her frequent changes of mood, self-
assertion alternating with timidity.
Fourth Day— There is the problem
and it is by no means insoluble. But what
does the Law care, or how can it care,
about rational solutions? The immediate
question the Court has to decide is
whether on such and such a night re-
spondent and co-respondent were sitting
in a car, with lights out, in a country lane,
or whether they were 53 (alleged by one
witness to be 57) miles apart? Again,
did they or did they not kiss in parting
after a dance in the district hall or was
the respondent at that very time in
attendance on her sick father 20 miles
away? And on another occasion did they
or did they not enter a garden shrubbery
(claimed by the defence to be gum-
trees with leafless trunks) and remain
there for 40 minutes, the night being dark
and cloudy (claimed by the defence to
be raining cats and dogs)?
Fifth Day. —Judging by an early photo,
(printed in one of the papers) years of
emotional torment have set their mark on
petitioner’s face. Periodically, no doubt,
he would feel his loneliness with more
acuteness than ever, and start speculating
on what she was doing. And then he
would go out with the detectives, watch-
ing her getting in and out of cars and
laughingly arriving at and laughingly
leaving parties and picture-shows.
The parties didn’t ask anybody to help
them because neither knew what was the
matter with them, and nobody offered
to help them because nobody bothered to
understand their problem, though plenty
of people would be prepared to encour-
age them along the path of mutual hatred
and resentment. So at length one of them
went to the lawyers, and that sent the
other to the lawyers, and so they
came into Court. If he wins she will
still be tied to him like a sick horse to a
lost explorer ; and she will lose the child
and the alimony ; and costs will ruin the
promising career of the co-respondent.
If she wins the petitioner will probably
have to go insolvent. A pretty pickle!
Sixth Day. —lnto the great grey bulk of
the Law Courts I enter daily with a
mingled feeling of horror and fascinated
interest. Hanging around the draughty
corridors and peering hungrily through
the double glass-doors are a score of
people unable to gain entrance. They can
One of the witnesses.
see, standing in the witness-box, the hand-
some figure of the respondent. Her cross-
examination has lasted three days and
her mood has changed from an air of
frightened innocence to one of anger and
then of hopeless boredom. As the Judge
droops his head to make a note of some-
thing elicited under cross-examination,
her air again changes to one of almost
friendly interest in counsel for the peti-
tioner. At times it would seem that this
unhappy female, clutched in the tentacles
of the Law, is actually enjoying herself.
Around the court occasionally floats
the faint suggestion, evaporated as soon
as felt, of a pure, a beautiful emotion.
After all, life isn’t always quite as ugly
as the Law would make it. Unhappy
men move restlessly at the hint of an
ideal world beyond actuality; women’s
faces relax for a moment their expres-
sions of moral indignation ; for a moment
beauty hovers over the proceedings. This
is dangerous, quite without precedent!
Let us get rid of it! “’Sonah does not
want to know what you thought or felt.
On the fifth of November, did you or
did you not say to the co-respondent”
Seventh Day. —Sometimes I imagine I
am looking on at a farce, staged for my
benefit. Sometimes I imagine that a
Rabelais or a Voltaire, with the profound
sadness of the true satirist, is using
grotesque fantasy to portray truths too
poignant to be stated otherwise. But I
know that if a poet or a philosopher were
to drop into the discussion a single touch
of humanity the court usher would roar
“Silence! ”
Eighth Day. —Respondent’s counsel is
addressing the jury. Co-respondent is
staring fixedly in front of him, respon-
dent is haggardly looking at the ceil-
ing, petitioner is nervously rolling paper
into balls. Lawyers are packing up their
documents ; the Judge, by the motions of
his hand, is drawing triangles on his
blotter. I start scribbling what I should
be saying if I were in counsel’s place.
“May it please your Honor:
“I do not propose to waste your Honor’s
time by traversing the evidence already
“A strong Bar was engaged.”
elicited at this inquiry. It is, I assure
your Honor, entirely irrelevant. I wish,
instead, to bring forward some fresh
evidence. My learned friend may object
that this procedure is irregular, but I beg
of him to be patient, at least to wait till
I have finished, for otherwise a grave
injustice may be done.
“Humbly I submit, your Honor, that
your Court is not competent to try this
action ; nor, in fact, is any Court. This
is a case, your Honor, not for the dry
processes of the Law, but for the con-
sideration of a psychologist.
“My client, this unfortunate lady, is
neither a wanton nor a creature lost to
all sense of responsibility. Nor is her
husband anything but an honorable, well-
intentioned man. Both parties, your
Honor, have been as helpless to control
their actions as they have shown them-
selves incapable of describing them
rationally. Petitioner has been called
upon to deal with a problem that
might have baffled a philosopher. His
wife, a sensitive, high-spirited and intelli-
gent woman, is, as I shall show, the vic-
tim of circumstances which made her as
incapable of forming normal relations
with her husband as of committing the
adultery she is accused of. It was only
to-day and by accident that this know-
ledge came into my possession in the
shape of a diary which the respondent
placed in my hands for the verification of
some unimportant detail. With your
Honor’s permission I will read some
extracts from it.
“ ‘This is my wedding morning, and the
day couldn’t have been more lovely.
When I awoke I could see the blue sky
through the sleep-out, and the sun was
making a scarlet aura of the gumtips, and
the birds were singing—all for me, it
seemed. I thought of my future hus-
band and I felt I loved him more than
ever. He is so noble, so considerate, so
chivalrous and, at the same time, so
timid, as if he were afraid of me. I think
I love him almost more than papa.
“ ‘Poor papa, he will be lonely with-
out me! It is the only thing that makes
“Now we come to the question of what
happened after the dance”
me sad —we have been like sister and
brother, or rather like mother and son
together I have been down to say
good-bye to the horses, and that has made
me feel sad, too. For a long time I
couldn’t make up my mind which of them
I would take to have with me after the
honeymoon. I found I loved every one
of them for one thing or another, but at
last I decided on Widdershins, because I
have known him the longest. How happy
I am, how happy....
“ ‘ls life horrible or am I wicked? I
must write down what I feel or I shall go
mad ; but Bunny must not see what I am
writing. He must not know that....
I shrink in terror at his approach....
“ ‘This nightmare is nearly over. To-
morrow we return and start our life
together in our own home, instead of in
these terrible hotels and boarding-houses.
How I long for to-morrow! This fort-
night has been a dream, a bad, bad
dream, and I feel sure when I get back
amongst my own things, in my husband’s
house, amongst my own books and pic-
tures, with Widdershins waiting to
greet me with his soft muzzle and papa
only half a mile away, I will recover
from this sickness of the soul which
makes everything seem evil and ugly
“ ‘How clean and sweet and decent
Nature is. Every morning before day-
break I get up, saddle Widdershins and
canter along a sandy bush track to a little
hill whence I can see the sun rise.
The birds are darting to and fro, the bees
are humming, the flowers bright with
dew. Man might never have set his foot
here, it is all so fresh and innocent; and
I remember the dear old lady who used
to give us sex-instruction at school by
telling us about the flowers and insects.
I find I am crying. Widdershins under-
stands and rubs his soft nose against me,
and then I want to mount and gallop
on into the bush for ever! And then I
think of Bunny, with his adoring face
and all his kindness; and then I feel
that it is I who am wicked....
Respondent’s counsel addresses the jury.
“ ‘Bunny objects to my early-morning
rides. He says they are unbecoming a
married woman and will soon be dan-
gerous for the baby. Besides, they are
beginning to affect my nerves, he says.
Affect my nerves! With Widdershins I
am happy, contented, I feel masterful.
With Bunny I feel timid, shy, a stranger.
He spends his evenings out, and I don’t
even ask him what he has been doing.
My indifference maddens him....
“ ‘I have just been grooming Widder-
shins. How smooth his neck is, and his
great strong chest is all muscle. I run
my hand over his swelling shoulder and
along his curving back and down his
strong, hard flanks to his fine fetlocks.
His eye is soft, but his nostrils are proud
and he hammers the floor with his fore-
feet. How perfect he is, like a god
turned animal! And lam master of this
god, little me! How splendid! And
Bunny expects me to admire his body....
“ ‘Bunny has put his foot down. He
flatly refuses to allow me to ride Widder-
shins. If I do, he will sell him or shoot
him. He says I am deliberately trying
to kill the baby. To-morrow I will wait
till he has gone to the office and then ride
to Milly Lind’s. Milly never made the
mistake of getting married and she has
half a dozen beautiful racehorses to keep
me and Widdershins company
“ ‘What fools men are! They want me
to live with my husband, although they
know I hate him ; and they take away
my baby, although they know I love
him.... Milly says it is foolish of me to
go round with men and I will only get
myself into trouble. What trouble? I like:
men. I find them useful, even exciting,
up to a point, and as long as I am the
rider. If they won’t be ridden then I
think “you’re just another Bunny,” and I
come back to Widdershins’....
“That is all I have to say, if it may
please your Honor.”
Counsel conclude their addresses while
I am writing. The Judge gathers up his
notes and says “I will consider this matter
further.” The clerk bawls “The Court
is adjourned sine die.” We file into the
open air.


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Sago for Brown Brother
“Ela”: The recent complaint of Hubert
Murray that the cutting down of the
Federal subsidy will endanger the suc-
cess of his Administration suggests that
there is room for charity to begin at
home, so to speak.
The staple food of native workers of
all classes in Papua, whether in Govern-
ment or private employ, is rice. This is
imported in huge quantities, although a
valiant and expensive attempt to grow
the stuff on Government plantations has
been made without marked success.
Before the white man came, the prin-
cipal farinaceous food of a large propor-
tion of Papua’s population was sago. The
sago palm grows thickly in many parts
of Papua, and especially in the river
deltas of the Gulf to the west of Port
Moresby. Once upon a time, the natives
of these areas manufactured on a large
scale for export as well as for home con-
sumption. The trade kept them occupied
and brought about intercourse with other
native tribes, whose goods they took in
exchange. Now, even in the sago areas,
rice has become the staple kai ; the sago
trade has practically vanished.
The Papuan Government would save
a thundering lot of money at present
spent on imported rice if it set the people
of the sago areas to manufacturing this
wholesome and appetising food for home
consumption, where it could
supplement the rice diet even
if it did not entirely supplant
it. A little instruction and
simple machinery to replace
the crude native methods
would result in a greatly im-
proved article. The Papuan
has shown himself capable of
turning out a first-class line
of desiccated cocoanut with
the aid of a little imported
machinery to replace the old-
time shell-scraper with which
he once manufactured the
article. The opening up of
a sago-making industry would
not only keep natives in em-
ployment, but would keep a
lot of money in Papua that
now goes to Japanese mer-
chants and Singapore tow-
kays, to say nothing of ship-
ping freights.
“Vic”: Darwin, five years after other
capitals, acquired talkies to amuse the
multicolored gathering which disports
itself “on the canvas” —only they don’t
call it that now —on Saturday nights.
The other day the thing went wrong, and
the outcome was another record for
Qantas, which made the longest Austra-
lian service flight on record, carrying an
engineer who patched the trouble up.
Leaving Brisbane on Tuesday morning
by the air mail and Daly Waters by
special ’plane on Thursday, he arrived,
the following day and undid the damage
inside ten minutes of his arrival. He was
back in Brisbane a fortnight after leav-
ing, having spent four days in Darwin.
Qantas last month flew a number of taxi
trips for which the excuses varied from
a doctor going 400 miles to operate to a
buyer hovering round the State from ram
sale to ram sale.
* * * *
“X.”: There is something humorous
in the glad news that Mr. Toupein and
Mr. Nelson, M.H.R., have been exchang-
ing telegrams about special Christmas
relief for Darwin unemployed. A photo,
from a reliable source which has come
my way recently, and which shows un-
employed demonstrating, exhibits about
11 gentlemen of all the various shades
of Asiatic color. Quite obviously their
interest in Christmas, except as a means
of getting something for nothing, must be
pretty thin. Anyhow, I suppose it doesn’t
hurt us to shout them a feed.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: There is a distinct awaken-
ing of interest in band music, which has
languished in North Queensland during
the depression. Time was when Charters
Towers and some other towns sounded
in the early evening practice hour like a
flock of homing hornets in pain, but wire-
less for a time killed the enthusiasm of
the executants, and hard times helped to
destroy the old spirit. Now a confer-
ence has been held to revive the N.Q.
Band Association. Practice has gone so
far in Cairns already that the Ministers’
Fraternity has risen to protest against
Sunday playing, including the “manner
in which Christian hymns were utilised”
to lure the northern youth from Sunday
school and Pleasant Sabbath Afternoons.
* * * *
“Pioneer”: After long years of striv-
ing and many rebuffs, it looks as if
Mackay (N.Q.) is going to get its harbor
at last. The Forgan Smith Government
—Forgan represents Mackay in Parlia-
ment —has made available a loan of a
million ; a condition is that a poll of the
electors of the Mackay Harbor Board’s
district should be taken before kicking
off. One offer to construct the works has
been made by a Sydney firm, which
quoted £870,000, but this has been turned
down and tenders will be called. Mackay,
with its great sugar output, has the most
shocking harbor facilities in Australia—
an open roadstead slightly sheltered in
certain winds by Flat Top Island. Every
ounce of cargo has to be lightered in and
out, and nearly always in a considerable
seaway. Sometimes conditions are such
that loading has to be abandoned and
left until the next steamer. The harbor
will consist of a double stone breakwater
like that at Townsville—another man-
made port.
* * * *
“Kangaroo Point”: Outside the Gov-
ernment and the folk who hope to make
“Why not let me take your photo., Mary ?”
“Don't wantum photo. Gotum lookin’-glass.”
something out of it, the new Brisbane
bridge is as popular as a mouse at a
feminist meeting. Brisbane Chamber of
Commerce, after urging that it be post-
poned for five years, has declined to have
anything to do with it. Though the Gov-
ernment swears that the community
generally will not be burdened with the
cost of the thing, which is to pay for
itself out of tolls, rate- and taxpayers
have replied with a derisive raspberry,
having in mind the poultice which the
Sydney affair has imposed on N.S.W.
* * * *
Chilled Meat for Export
“Crops”: Queensland’s acting Agent-
General, L. H. Pike, issues a timely warn-
ing to those optimists who consider, be-
cause one or two tiny shipments of
chilled meat have reached Europe in
good order from this country, that the
British beef trade is just waiting for us
to gather it up. Pike stresses that the
South Americas, Rhodesia and South
Africa are competitors in the chilled-
meat trade which, by reason of their
low production costs and their proximity
to the European markets, will be very
hard to stand up against. Only intense
organisation and regular shipments will
give this country a chance, and these
matters should be set in hand at once.
The frozen-beef trade, Mr. Pike says,
is dying on its feet. Industrial Britain,
which once ate frozen meat in plenty, has
acquired more luxurious tastes since the
war, and now insists on chilled.
The Chief of Police
“Spare Slop”: Queenslanders are
wondering who will succeed Police Com-
missioner Ryan. One party, with the ex-
ample of the London Metropolitan Police
before its eyes, and that of Melbourne
also, inclines to the appointment of a
capable man from outside the force. The
other stands by the order of things which
has been accepted in recent years by
Queensland Governments; it demands a
chief who has risen from the ranks, as
Ryan has done.
Most of the police chiefs of the
past were men who entered the force
as “officer cadets”—Harry Chauvel was
one of these, by the way —and some were
military men, like D. T. Seymour,
appointed from outside, and Parry-Oke-
den, who began as a sub-inspector. One
of the very best and most capable Com-
missioners the Queensland police have
known was the late Major Cahill. He
was a senior officer in the Queensland
Justice Department when shrewd old
Wully Kidston picked him out for the job,
and he justified Wully’s judgment a
dozen times over.
In all probability a man who has
worked his way up from the beat will be
appointed. It is altogether admirable
that the way upwards should be open
to such, but it is doubtful if long years
of experience of arrests and routine
police duty is the best equipment in the
world to deal with the ramifications of
modern crime, which is, nowadays, a
highly developed and expertly organised
business in its higher aspects. England,
as always in police matters, has led the
way by demanding from new recruits a
fairly high educational standard in addi-
tion to the old physical one, and has pro-
vided special opportunities for advance-
ment to the higher ranks of particularly
capable men. N.S.W. has made a begin-
ning on the same lines, and sooner or
later every Australian State must follow
suit. The sun of Dogberry is setting.
“Rastus”: The casual Australian again.
One of the pioneers of the Creche and
Kindergarten and the Children’s Play-
grounds movements in Brisbane had a
ghastly experience just after the creche
in the Brisbane Exhibition grounds was
opened. There came to the Show a
giddy young mother, who deposited her
infant (aged two weeks) at the creche
and disappeared into the blue. The day
wore on*, and other infants duly were col-
lected by their parents; but the two-
weeks’-old baby still remained. It grew
darker and darker. The pioneer lady,
with a Casabianca expression, grimly
nursed the infant and waited. She kept
on nursing it until three o’clock in the
morning, when the police found an hys-
terical mother in a suburban boarding-
house. She couldn’t remember where
she had parked her baby!
* * * *
“Ratoon”: Java, one of the greatest
producers of cane sugar, is again cutting
its production rate heavily. The 1933-34
plantings will be limited to a maximum
of 20,000 hectares, equalling sugar pro-
duction of 300,000 tons. The 1933-34
crop is estimated to yield 500,000 tons ;
the year before that output was
1,331,000 tons, and in 1931-32 2,577,000
tons.
Gals’ (Gossip from Brisbane
Barbara Sisley, who guides the destinies of
the Brisbane Repertory Society, recently built
herself a new house on the heights of Taringa.
The male members of the society, one Boiling-
hot Saturday afternoon, arrived at the home
en masse . and proceeded to turf the lawn.
This was a really worth-while compliment, and
an offset to the unpleasant fact that during
the week some depraved joyrider had pinched
the lady’s car —the third time this has hap-
pened in 12 months —and abandoned it at
Coomera.
Beverley Patterson, aged eight, a grand-
daughter of explorer Oxley, already has started
adventuring into the Land of Verse. The child
has a natural sense of rhyme and rhythm. t
The fund for the purchase of Vance Palmer s
portrait for the Brisbane Muse.um is growing,
though slowly. Brisbane is taking more in-
terest in its Museum; since the Chang
vase and Tinsworth panels found a resting-
place there the turnstiles have been clanking
steadily.
Earth-hunger sometimes misses a generation
or goes unheeded; but apparently it comes.
Two weddings, which will take place in Bris-
bane early in the New Year, recall memories
of first generations, and something like the
feudal magnificence of the early squattocracy.
Beth Glasgow, daughter of knight William,
Queensland’s most popular General, will wed
Bill McDowell, and unite ink, law and the land.
Her mother’s people, the Stumms, achieved
distinction in both ink and law, while Bill,
besides possessing a male parent who was one
of the first wireless experts in Australia—in the
intervals of doing a job as radiologist—is also
a sprig of the Crombie and Cameron clans,
and they left their nationality for all to see
in the names of a dozen Western stations. Bill
returns to the land. . , , ,
Years ago, Brisbane Society was ruled by a
bevy of pretty women, about half a dozen ©t
them, who included the Nicholson girls (Mes-
dames David Hamilton and Walter Cameron)
and the Macdonald trio—Mrs. Duckett White,
and her sisters, daughters of Queensland’s most
popular Mining Under-Secretary. The alliance
of Doris Nicholson and young Duckett White
of the new generation recalls the tradition or
those Edwardian belles, although old hands
of that age were wont to declare that Bris-
bane’s loveliest girls were the Norths, of whom
Mrs. Nicholson the elder was one. However,
Nicholsons, Norths and Whites—all pioneering
squatters —are justified in their grandchildren,
who are building a modest gunyah in the
Granite Belt. . . ,
One of our recent visitors is Mrs. Lionel
de Morpurgo, who spent her girlhood in
Queensland. She was Feo Beith, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. “Billy” Beith, of Ascot, Too-
woomba, and grand-daughter of Montagu Stan-
ley, the Government Architect. A circle of
old Toowoombaites—the Brodribbs, the Tay-
lors, the Beiths —migrated to London years ago,
but every few years one or the other makes an
appearance on the red-soil plains. Like 90
per cent, of Brisbane, Mrs de Morpurgo is
at present at Southport, where the vice-regal
household already has unpacked its collective
bathing-suit.
Wednesday last week saw the wedding ot
Freda Barbour, daughter of that grand old
man G. P. Barbour, headmaster of the Too-
woomba Grammar School and this State’s
most veteran cricketer, to Ken Carmichael, oi
Melbourne. Freda, who was one of the props
of the Country Women’s Association in its
infancy, inherited the family sporting tradition,
and was a nasty problem on the hockey field.
Toowoomba hostesses have been spreading the
buttered bun for her for the last fortnight.
The romance began when Ken Carmichael was
senior prefect at the Toowoomba Grammar,
and Freda that city’s most popular girl. Inci-
dentally, one of the Barbour boys left Queens-
land as a very front-rank Rhodes scholar.
Last week was a busy week for the clergy.
On Monday night at St. Patrick’s Cathedral,
Toowoomba, Bob Cattanach married Ella New-
man. Monsignor McKenna tied the knot, and
six bridesmaids lent support to the bride. They
were Lennie Newman, Sylvia Beirne, Nancy
Newman, Mary O’Brien, Mary McCafferty and
Bernadette O’Brien. P. S. Newman gave his
sister away; E. F. O’Brien was best man, and
L. C. Burge ’groomsman. The ’moon will
be spent motoring in the South.
Barbara Ainge Johnson, daughter of the late
Ralph Ainge Johnson and Mrs. Johnson (she>was
Miss Marshall, daughter of one of Brisbane’s
most popular Town Clerks), shortly will mur-
mur “I will” to Hugh Meyer, of Melbourne.
The knot-tying will be in old St. Mary’s Church
at Kangaroo Point, which the Marshall family
have attended for two generations.
Freda Bage, head of Brisbane’s Women’s
College, is off for a motor tour to see mother
and sister. She expects to do a bit of touring
round Victoria before returning to the “daily
round and common task” at the college.
Mrs. C. E. Sligo, who goes South this week
to join her husband, who is representing the
“S. M. Herald” at Canberra, entertained a
large number of those friends who had tea-ed
her at Rowe’s. Red roses on the table har-
monised well with the hostess’s white-spotted
and rose-colored frock.
Some of our pretty girls, now holidaying at
the beaches, have evolved a new fashion style.
They are wearing the good old solar topi with
their backless bathing frocks. As one girl
said, she didn’t mind a coat of tan but objected
to a skinned nose. It is a sensible fashion,
and some of the girls look delightful in their
helmets.
D. B. McCullough’s five daughters—Beatrice,
Hazel, Brenda, Nell and Linda —-are off to Syd-
ney early in the New Year by car. Two of the
girls are worthy disciples of the art of Pavlova,
and few charity concerns are complete without
their names on the programme. All the girls
inherited the good looks of their mother.
Perhaps it is the hot weather, or perhaps
in these depression times brides-to-be have
thought it kind to give their friends a chance
to combine Christmas presents with the un-
usual wedding presents. At any rate, there
seems to have been an extraordinary amount
of marrying and giving in marriage this month.
Last night Merle Stephenson, daughter of Ips-
wich’s Mayor, A. T. Stephenson, donned the
bridal white satin and orange blossoms for
James Thomas Finimore, only son of the T.
Finimores, of Ipswich. This was the first occa-
sion, since Ipswich became a municipality 73
years ago, on which a mayor’s daughter has been
married while her father clung to the rabbit-
skins and chain of office. Three hundred guests
sat down to the wedding breakfast at the Town
Hall Daphne Negus and Dorothea Ganly
’maided, and William Stacheel and Jack Levens
back up the bridegroom.
Queensland misses are becoming uneasy at
the persistence with which Southern girls put
the hoodoo on our best eligibles. Miss B.
Correll of Bellevue Hill, arrived in Queens-
land last week, and has just married, in Mac-
kay, Bums-Philp’s representative, R. Trotter
Nancy Gore, a sprig of one of Queensland s
oldest families, was married recently in Assam
to Lieut. Leslie Berkeley Hirst, of the Ghurka
Rifles Nancy, who is lovely enough for her
portrait to be added to any famous collection
of British beauties, is a grand-daughter of the
A A Spowers (he was Surveyor-General in
Queensland), and a great grand-daughter of
that Davidson who also held down the job
of this State’s Surveyor-General.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, Sydney, knowledge store and post
office work, wants position. Will do house-
hold duties as we 11.—9415.
Linotype operator (33), Q’land, unemployed
through merger, desires position.—94s4.
By School of Arts, near Sydney, a two-
drawer card-index file and cabinet to take sin.
x 3in. cards, for use as library catalogue, and
a small baize-covered notice-board.—94l2.
Words of poem containing the lines:
Where are the braveries, fresh or frayed?
The plumes, the armours—friend and foe?
—9464.
To exchange good-quality 16-gauge side-lock
hammerless ejector fitted with loose strikers, by
London maker, perfect condition, for 12-gauge
2} case gun.—944l
Information Sought.
(1) Is it a rule in poker that a royal routine
flush must be disclosed as soon as drawn 3 (2)
What happens if there are two hands of equal
value and the holder of one sees the other 3
(3) Where does the “blaze” rank in order of
value ? (4) What is a “lallapaloosa” 3—9450.
(1) No. In bygone years there were two
schools of poker theorists: one holding that
suits should rank (the order was hearts, dia-
monds, spades, clubs) to avoid ties, and the
other that suits should not rank, and that in
the event of a tie between two or more players
left in at a showdown the pool should be
shared. Under the rules in which the suits
ranked the holder of a royal routine in hearts
had to declare it without further betting; he
could not bet on a certainty. Nowadays all
authorities declare that suits do not rank in
poker. (2) Holders share the pool. (3) The
“blaze” (all picture cards, but not exceeding
two pairs) used to rank between two pairs and
threes. It is no longer of any special value.
(4) A term applied to a hand of no value
which the holder had bet upon, believing it
to have a value.
What is the position regarding the payment
of old-age pensioners in benevolent asylums 3
—9426.
A sum not exceeding 3s. 9d. per week is
granted for the inmate’s personal use, and, in
addition, the Old-age Pensions Department pays
the balance of the pension in the institution.
The maximum sum payable in respect of main-
tenance is 11s. 3d. per week, and this amount
is paid in nearly all cases.
In a tennis match a ball from an adjoining
court interferes with the player making his
stroke. What is the position 3 —9429.
A let should be called if the ball comes into
court during play. Otherwise there is no
remedy. The onus is on the players to have
loose balls removed from their courts.
(1) Where did the polka originate 3 When
did it reach England 3 Was it as much a sen-
sation in its day as, say, the charleston in
recent years 3 (2) Who invented the lancers,
and when did that dance reach England 3 —-9444.
(1) There are various accounts of its origin.
It was danced at Prague in 1835, reached
Vienna in 1839, and Paris the following year.
London next fell under the spell, and for a
while the world was infected by polkamania.
Clothes, hats, streets and even hotels were
named after the new dance. The only survival
of the craze is the term “polka-dot,” applied
to patterns in which round spots are irregu-
larly grouped. (2) This form of the quadrilles
was first published by Joseph Hart in 1819, in
London. Duval, of Dublin, claimed to be the
inventor, but the evidence favors Hart. The
lancers did not become popular in England till
1850, when the dance was reintroduced by a
fashionable French teacher, Madame Sacre, at
her classes in Hanover Square Rooms.
Who was “The Mother of the Gracchi” 3
9427.
Cornelia, daughter of Scipio Africanus the
Elder and wife of Scipio Africanus the
Younger. On the death of her husband, refus-
ing numerous offers of marriage, she devoted
herself to the education of her twelve chil-
dren. When asked to show her jewels, she pre-
sented her sons. On her death (second cen-
tury b.c.) a statue was erected to her memory
inscribed “Cornelia, the Mother of the
Gracchi.” In later life she devoted herself to
literature. • Her writings were celebrated for
their beauty of style.
Is it true that 3d. invested in compound in-
terest at 5 per cent, in the year 1 a.d. would
by now amount to more gold than there is in
all the world 3—9458.
That is an utterly inadequate estimate. The
amount accruing would represent 105,760 mil-
lion billion billion (30 noughts) tons of gold—
a mass bigger than the sun. The multiplying
power of compound interest in such a period is
so vast that, were the original investment a
farthing divided by a million billion billion (a
speck invisible under the most P9werful micro-
scope), the amount now accruing would be
the very respectable sum of £94,760,000. And
it would take this original tiny fragment about
1300 years to attain the value of a speck of
copper of visible dimensions.
What fertiliser should be used to grow grass
on sand to improve the approaches to golf
links 3 Is creeping bent grass likely to thrive
without water other than the rainfall at Walcha.
3400 ft. above sea level 3 —9365.
To build up soil fertility and improve grass
growth, 1 ton of lime and lewt. super, per
acre should be used in the autumn. If ground
limestone is used, it may be mixed and applied
with super., but if “agricultural” lime it should
be applied three weeks before the super. In
October and February use sulphate of ammonia
at the rate of lewt. per acre. If it is desired
to commence work immediately, apply a dress-
ing of sulphate of ammonia followed by an-
other in February. The lime and super, can
then be used in March or early April. It would
be waste of time attempting to establish and
maintain greens of Agrostis tenuis or any other
species Of Agrostis in your district without a
water supply.
(1) When was the French Medaille Militaire
established ? (2) Description of the medal ?
—9478.
(1) 1852. (2) In the centre of the obverse
is a gilt female head on a roughened gilt
ground, surrounded by a narrow band of
blue enamel bearing the words “Republiquc
Frangaise, 1870,” in gilt letters. On the re-
verse “Valeur et Discipline.’’ Above the medal
is a trophy of arms. Ribbon: Orange with
green edges.
What squadron did Captain Jerry Pentland
belong to, and what was his service record ?
9281.
He was originally a trooper in the 10th Light
Horse, A.I.F. He transferred to the Royal
Flying Corps in 1916. During his service with
the Royal Flying Corps he served with the 16th,
19th and 87th squadrons. He was awarded the
Military Cross in 1917 and the Distinguished
Flying Cross in 1918.
Is “The Green Hat” or any of the novels
of Michael Aden considered a classic ? —9401.
Nothing of Michael Arlen’s is in any sense
a classic.
(1) Where can I get directions for preserving
fisli by smoking ? Do you recommend the
use of pyroligneous acid as a substitute for
smoking ? —9476.
(1) State Fisheries, Chief Secretary’s Dept.,
Sydney, will supply you with a leaflet on the
subject. (2) Pyroligneous acid, which is applied
lull strength, is a substitute—but a poor one —
for smoking in the ordinary way. The acid is
applied by means of a brush, and should be
dried off with heat in about five to ten
minutes.
Can you give me your authority for a state-
ment on this page (B. 15/11 / ’33): “The exhi-
bition of an article with price attached in a
shop window is an offer by the shopkeeper
to sell at the price named. A tender of the
price is an acceptance of that offer, constitut-
ing a contract on which the customer may sue.”
Charlesworth, in his “Principles of Mercantile
Law,” expresses a contrary opinion. —9439.
The general rule was stated. Anson, in his
“Law of Contract,” puts the matter very
simply: “A takes a sixpenny book from X’s
bookstall. X, in displaying his wares, says in
act though, not in words ‘Will you buy my
goods at my price?’ and A, taking a book
with X’s cognisance, says in act ‘I will,’
thus completing the contract.” Much, how-
ever, depends on the construction to be given
to the offer. In the case of a specific article
(say a signed water-color drawing exhibited in
a shop window with a price attached to it)
there can be no doubt as to the meaning of the
offer. On the other hand, if an article of some
standard make and pattern, such as a common
delf cup and saucer, is exhibited with a price
attached, the offer might be construed into an
offer to supply an unlimited quantity of cups
and saucers similar in all respects to that ex-
hibited, at the price named, a contract which
the vendor could not fulfil.
Approximate cost of a small jam-manufac-
turing plant and the prospects of a market
either in Australia or overseas 3—9239.
A complete mechanical plant, however small,
could not be obtained for much under £lOOO.
Markets in Australia and abroad are fiercely
competed for, and a small manufacturer has
not much chance of success.
/ had a new crown wheel and pinion fitted
to my model F 28 Oldsmobile. Now, after
doing about 3000 miles, the gear makes a moan-
ing noise, increasing with the pull. Cause and
remedy 3—9374.
Difficult to diagnose trouble without inspec-
tion. Sound is due possibly to abnormal wear
on the teeth of the pinion or ring gear, or,
more likely, a worn ball race. Dismantle the
differential and ascertain whether worn teeth
or a faulty bearing is at the root of the trouble.
It doesn’t seem to be a case where mere adjust-
ment will put matters right.
What is the purpose of the tail or stalk pro-
jecting downwards below the branch or twig on
which the nests of fantails and flycatchers are
placed 3 —9468.
Various explanations have been offered. Some
observers maintain that it is for the purpose
of making the nest less obvious and more like
a casual collection of debris; others hold that
it serves to increase the stability of the structure.
A suggestion has also been made that it serves
to drain off moisture.
I am told that until recently the Boer in
South Africa had little acquaintance with miles
and measured all distances by the time it took
him to ride them. My informant further tells
me that this was the practice in measuring a
farm in a new district. How was it worked 3
—9434.
Formerly in the Dutch republics the recog-
nised method of measuring a farm in a new
district was to ride a half-hour in each direc-
tion, north, east, south and west, so as to
describe a square, the rider returning to the
point at which he started at the end of two
hours. The square was supposed to measure
a little over three miles each way, which
allowed about 10 sq. miles or 3000 morgens
to the farm. A tendency to the use of whip
and spur was met by the threat of a tax on
excess land beaconed off, a deterrent which
seems to have been fairly effective, although
many farms were reduced on survey.
(1) Did Sullivan write music to, Gilbert’s
words, or did Gilbert write the words to Sulli-
van’s music 3 (2) In such collaborations, is
it advisable that the writer should fit words
to the music or vice versa 3 Is there any
general convention in the matter 3 —9421.
(1) Sullivan wrote the music to fit the words.
(2) There is no rule, but the music of almost
all the most famous songs was inspired by . the
words. Words written to fit famous melodies
are almost always disappointing.
Dates of the International Exhibitions held
in Hobart and Launceston, and name of man-
ager 3 Are catalogues now available 3—9278.
The Hobart exhibition, arranged by Jules
Joubert, was opened on November 15, 1894,
and continued for six months. Launceston
exhibition, managed by Joubert, was opened
on November 25, 1891, and remained open
until March 22, 1892. The Town Clerk’s office,
Hobart, has several copies of the catalogue of
the Launceston exhibition, but not one of the
Hobart.
How to eradicate moths that attack clothes
and cloth-covered furniture 3 —9438.
Frequently examine and thoroughly brush all
fabrics to destroy eggs or larvae, and spray
occasionally with benzine. Clothes should be
stored in a close-fitting box in which camphor
or naphthalene has been placed. Spray contents
with benzine three or four times during the
summer.
After whom is Jamieson-street, Sydney,
named 3 —9440.
After John Jamison (the street name is spelt
wrongly), son of Thomas Jamison, who was
surgeon’s first mate in H.M.S. Sirius, and after-
wards Surgeon-General (1802-09) of N. S.
Wales. The son was educated for the medical
profession, was also a surgeon in the Navy,
and later became a squatter in N. S. Wales.
John Jamison was knighted.
(1) How long did William Cox take to build
the Penrith-Bathurst (N.S.W.) road? (2) Width
of the roadway ? (3) Strength of his working
party, and how many were convicts ? Number
of guards ? (4) Route of road after it entered
Hartley Vale ? —9449.
(1) On July 18, 1814, he made the first cutting
down to the Nepean ford; on January 14,
1815, he was forming the roadway at Bathurst.
(2) The roadway was 12ft. wide; the clearing
through timber, 20ft. wide. (3) He had a work-
ing party of 30, 20 of whom were convict
laborers, guarded by eight soldiers. (4) It
doubled southwards to the Cox River behind
Hartley, then ran s.-w. from Mount Blaxland
to the headwaters of Jock’s and Antonio’s
Creeks, crossed the Fish River near Hobby’s
Creek, and reached Bathurst by way of O’Con-
nell Plains and the Campbell River crossing at
White Rock.
Who was Till Eulenspiegel ? —9414.
Till Eulenspiegel or Ulenspiegel is the name
of a German folk-hero and the title of a
popular German chapbook on the subject.
Eulenspiegel, the son of a peasant, was born
at Kneitlingen, in Brunswick, at the end of
the thirteenth or at the beginning of the four-
teenth century. He died, according to tradi-
tion, at Molln, near Ltibeck, in 1350. He is
the wily peasant who loves to exercise his wit
and roguery on the tradespeople of the towns,
above all, on the innkeepers; but priests, noble-
men, even princes, are also among his victims.
Does every N.S.W. Government employee
come under the Civil Service Salary Reduction
Act ? What is the rate of reduction ? —9326.
The N.S.W. Public Service Salaries Act, 1931-
33, applies to every person who is an “officer,”
/.e., one whose salary is fixed by an Act or
by the Government in pursuance of an Act.
Where the salary does not exceed the amount
of the current “living wage” it is subject to
a deduction of 8 1-3 p.c. Where it exceeds the
amount of the living wage it is reduced by
sliding-scale percentages, ranging from 15 p.c.
on a salary of £2OO up to 32| p.c. on any
portion of a salary in excess of £l5OO. A
rebate is allowed to a married male officer or
any officer with dependent legitimate child
or children. The scale of rebates applies only
up to salaries of £331 p.a. A copy of the Act
as recently amended by the Public Service
Salaries (Amendment) Act, 1933, is obtainable
from the Government Printer, Sydney, price 3d.
(1) Number of Indians in Canada, and is it
true that the race is gradually disappearing ?
(2) I understand that some Indians are allowed
to vote in Canada. Does that privilege give
them full citizenship ? Does it deprive them
of the special protection afforded to Indians by
the Government ? —9453.
(1) The Indians of Canada, according to the
1931 census, numbered 122,920. A small yearly
increase is recorded. (2) When an Indian is
enfranchised he ceases to be an Indian under
the law, acquires the full status of citizenship
and loses the special protection accorded to
unfranchised Indians.
(1) What are the tariff policies of the U.A.P.,
the Labor party and the Country party in
Australia? (2) What are the tariff policies of
the three big English political parties ? —8926.
(1) They all say they are Protectionist, but
the C.P. declares that many duties are too high,
Labor that they are not high enough and the
U.A.P. that they are just right. Labor is against
the Ottawa agreement; the U.A.P. and the
C.P. are for it. (2) Laborites and Liberals are
theoretically for Freetrade (revenue tariffs in
practice) and are opposed to Imperial prefer-
ence. Unionists advocate Imperial preference,
and, in domestic policy, a tariff to safeguard
industries most affected by foreign competition.
What are the habits of the groper and on
what does it feed ? —9304.
This fish is the largest of the Australian
representatives of the family Labridce. It is
a rock-dweller and frequents the water in the
vicinity of precipitous headlands, concealing
itself amongst the submerged rocks and caves
which abound in such localities. Of a shy dis-
position, it spends a considerable amount of
its time in hiding, but on a calm day, par-
ticularly with a light westerly wind, it may
occasionally be seen sporting in clear water
amongst rocky boulders. It usually approaches
the shore on a flood tide, receding into deep
water with the ebb. It spawns amongst the
rocks, principally during the months of May
and June. It feeds on molluscs, crustaceans
and starfish.
(1 ) To what does the Southern Cross con-
stellation owe its name ? (2) Exact position in
the heavens ? Are the stars large ones ? What
are the pointers ? Is it ever seen in the Northern
Hemisphere ? At any time is it invisible from
any part of Australia 3-—9220.
(1) The astronomer Royer called it that in
1679 basing the allusion on the cruciform
arrangement of the stars and the fact that the
longer beam of the cross points south. (2) It
lies in the heavens about one-third of the way
between the southern celestial pole and the
Equator its declination being about 60deg.
south. One of its stars, a double one, is barely
of the first magnitude, two barely of the second,
one is a third-magnitude star, and one that
lies near the crossing of the arms is fainter
still. Two much more conspicuous neighboring
stars —Alpha Centauri and Beta Centauri are
known as “the pointers,” because a line drawn
through them passes through the northern limb
of the cross and so makes it easy to locate it.
The constellation is at its highest in the heavens
in April and May, when it can be seen m the
Northern Hemisphere, but is invisible from any
part of Australia north of latitude 28deg.
Brief Answers.
M.J.G.: (1) Approximately 13 years 2
months, but the transaction is outside commer-
cial practice. Quarterly rests are the minimum.
(2) 4.55 gallons... .H.C.: Solvoid. Wellington
agents will inform you where it is procurable
in Wanganui if you have any difficulty
M.M.: Write Under-Secretary, Agricultural De-
partment, Sydney... .E.E.H.: Communicate
with- the Taxation Department, Sydney, direct,
quoting the assessment and file numbers under
which you have been assessed, and you will be
advised fully as to the position R. 8.: Can-
not trace in any of the standard reference
books an artist named T. H. Laidlay... .D.M.:
It is worth 5s P.S.W.: The medal was
awarded to all Turkish soldiers who were
wounded during the Great War. The design
in the crescent is called the “Tughra,” an orna-
mental arrangement or'monogram made up of
the name and titles of the Sultan, then con-
stituting the Great Seal of the Ottoman Empire.
... .F.N.8.: Write Sydney Harbor Trust
E.R.1.: (I) and (2) Write Dept, of Public
Works, Brisbane. (3), (4), (5) and (6) Write
Prickly Pear Land Commission, Brisbane
J.M.A.: Write secretary, Baking Trade Em-
ployees’ Federation, Trades Hall, Goulburn-
street, Sydney J.D.: A diagram showing the
industrial products obtainable from coal is to
be had from Dr. C. D. Ryder, chief chemist,
Lewis Berger, and Sons, Rhodes, Sydney
W.T.E.: Jargon is ugly-sounding talk, hard to
understand; applied especially to the techni-
cal vocabulary of a science, art, class,
sect or trade, or to a hybrid speech made up
of different languages... .P1.M.8.: Wiluna
(W.A.) has a population of 1200. The news-
paper is the Wiluna “Chronicle” J.W.: The
book you want is Paul Hasluck’s “Bootmaking
and Mending”.... R.G.H.: “The Great Austra-
lian Adjective,” by W. T. Goodge, is in “ ‘The
Bulletin’ Reciter,” obtainable from the N.S.W.
Bookstall Co., Sydney Manus: It is not
accepted seriously by medical men or psycholo-
gists E.J.H.: Mirrors cannot be resilvered
at home, and in most cases to have the job
done professionally costs as much as a com-
plete new mirror would... .S.W.C.: Write to
Craffia Art Shop, Her Majesty’s Arcade, Pitt-
street, Sydney. About £1 should procure
enough for a start; many workers make their
own punches and other appliances C.H.R.:
It is not a provision of the law that every letter
sent to a N.S.W. shire clerk or a president of
a shire should be read in open council....
P.M.: Cannot say without examination.
As a general measure, build up your strength
by having plenty of milk, fresh eggs, fresh
fluffs and'salads. Try cod-liver oil and malt
every day for a while... .W. 5.8.: Blood pres-
sure is a measurement and not a disease. It
can be high or low according to the condition
of one or more parts of the body. For in-
stance, if the arteries are hard, the pressure is
high • if the body tone is low, the pressure might
be 10W....5.T.: A haikai is a Japanese poem
in three lines of five, seven and five syllables.
A.H.: (1) If by the agreement between
you the time of burning was left to his discre-
tion, you appear to be responsible. (2) You must
restore what has been destroyed, replacing the
fencing to the satisfaction of the person in-
jured D.W.: (1) Write American Trade
Commissioner, Yorkshire House, Pitt and
Spring streets, Sydney. (2) Approximately £lO
12s. 6d. for 500. £ll for 750 and £ll 7s. 6d.
for 1000.... J.R.H.: Carbine was bred in M.L.
and came to Australia as a three-year-01d....
A H H.: (1) Occurs in Alexander Pope s
“Moral Essays” (Epistle I, to Lord Cobham).
(2) See answer to 9427, this issue.. ..F J.: Dr.
Stephen Mannington Caffyn died in London
on October 2, 1896... .E.L.: Philatelic Society
of Australia (Sec., A. F. Watkins, Electricity
Dept., Town Hall, Sydney) D.D.: Brighton
Cemetery. Vic. There is a photograph ot the
grave in the memorial brochure of his verse
published by Whitcombe and Tombs, Melb.
... .H.H.R.8.: One of the most popular books
for general purposes is “Simple Tests for
Minerals,” by J. Campbell (3s. 9d.). Other
books on prospecting are “Prospecting tor
Gold,” by I. L. Idriess (55.), and Getting
Gold,” by “Fossicker” (2s. 6d.). All are pro-
curable at Barker’s Bookstores, Brisbane....
A.H.S.: Healesville (Vic.) has a population of
2500. It is a tourist resort at the junction ot
Graceburn and Watts rivers, 39 miles from
Melbourne.... H.W.: Sean O’Casey wrote
“Cathleen Listens In” and “Nannies Night
Out” before writing “Juno and the Paycock,
which was his first big success. He has written
no plays since “The Silver Tassie” (1929)....
C.Y.: Not aware of any such law, but con-
sult local Town Clerk... .E.L.C.: A satisfac-
tory treatment would be to paint the surface
of the cement with a bituminous paint. Try
Ormonoid Roofing, Ltd., Sydney... .B.B.B.:
Know of none at present... .A.C.P.: H both
players have won three points, the score is
called deuce, and the next point won by a
player is scored advantage for that player. It
the same player wins the next point he takes
the game; if the other player wins the next
point the score is again called deuce, and so
on until a player wins the two points imme-
diately following the score at deuce, when the
game is scored for that player A.J.G.: Can-
not recommend any particular school. Write
to the Education Dept., Sydney... .H.T.:
Send the glass to the nearest optician ; it he
has no gear for repolishing, send it to Anthony
Hordern and Sons, Brickfield Hill, Sydney....
C. : Section 24 (3) of the N.S.W. Public Hos-
pitals Act, 1929, provides that the Governor
may appoint any person to be a directoi.
whether such person is a subscriber to the
hospital or not. As the whole of the directors
of the Kurri Kurri District Hospital have been
appointed by the Governor, no question of
their being financial contributors to the hospi-
tal can arise....H.C.S.: Webster’s Dictionary
says of skewbald: “Of horses, etc., marked
with spots and patches of white and some other
color —sometimes distinguished from piebald,
then restricted to cases in which the colors
are black and white.” Concerning piebald, it
says: “Of different colors, properly two, esp.
white and black, having spots and patches of
black and white or other colors” A.T.W.:
Hon. James Wilberforce Stephen, Attorney-
General in Francis Ministry, 1872... .C.C.:
Communicate with D. Hardy and Sons, Glebe
Point; D. Hogan and Sons, Sussex-street, and
Moxon and Co., 19 Duncan-street —all Sydney.
D. Write to Q’land Aero Club, 95 Eagle-
street, Brisbane, for pamphlet “Learn to Fly.'
... .F.T.: The mean annual temperature of
Adelaide, taken over a period of 75 years, is
63deg.; mean summer temperature, 71.2 deg.;
mean winter temperature, 53.1 deg (Many
others mailed.)


4d be inLnqlnnc.
in.
1934
-_Jor the Enxjlisk Sprrincj &, Sturuner-
_Jar the Cricket Jests cJenrdsMotiches-
_Jar 'Rental Qsoot's Sixmous SoodwxxxL.
Hmjvr life in Lonxcbon in the Season-
the supreme Comfort &> Cnjoymerd—
of the Ocean fiassacje
LINE
The Other Fellow’s Mind.
The Cheerful Wheatgrower
These Australians are a cheerful lot.
The Bulletin received Christmas greet-
ings from a wheat-farmer who lives in
a place which sounds as if it had been
named by a bullfrog with a cold. He
has been growing wheat of high quality
for a quarter of a century —was one of
the first to take seed into the far west ot
N. S. Wales. Now:
It is 7.30 p.m. on December 14, and the
thermometer stands at 54deg.! The harvest
is still with us. We got an early start this
vear, and nad a week’s work. Then it rained.
In the last week we have worked three days.
To-day it rained again—9l points and we will
be lucky if we get going again next Monday.
We should have finished early in the week be-
fore Christmas. Now with favorable condi-
tions it will take us to the New Year. Mean-
while, the small yield of wheat is deteriorating
in quality and quantity, and expenses are mount-
ing up on the inverse ratio. I should like some
of those old ladies of both sexes who protest
against the flour tax to see what the wheat-
grower really puts up with. . . ,
But never mind —things will dry straight.
These days—l’ve seen plenty of ’em—bring back
the lines: —
It ain’t no use to grumble and complain.
It’s just as easy to rejoice;
When God sorts out the weather and sends rain,
Then rain’s my choice.
T don’t know who the poet was, but he was
a better poet and knew more about his job
tbqn some of the people who run our primary
industries. People who cry loudly for pro-
ducer-control, for instance. But let s talk or
something else.... What price the new Lord
Mayor?
In Praise of Dr. Cilento
I was surprised to read (B. 13/12/’33)
that it would delight someone from
Liberia to see “Dr. Cilento, a medical
anthropologist, in the saddle at Rabaul.
To those who have the privilege of know-
ing Dr. Cilento and knowing their New
Guinea, he is the one Australian
eminently suitable for the job. Excellent
and capable as Sir William MacGregor
was, it is probable that if Dr. Cilento had
MacGregor’s opportunities he would pro-
duce better results. If the politicians will
be ruled by merit, and will use their
brains long enough to put Dr. Cilento in
the saddle and leave him alone, those
politicians will have done the best pos-
sible service to the Territory—and to
Papua, if the two are combined.— Miles
Brittannicus (Q.).
All One Family
As one born and reared not far from
the smoke of Manchester, permit me to
express my deep appreciation of Not
Squealers, But” (B. 22/11 / ’33). The
road of the Englishman domiciled in
Australia is not of the easiest; the diffi-
culties thereof were accentuated during
the bodyline dispute. The position is not
ameliorated in the case of the Anglo-
Australian with an Australian-born wife
and family, some of whom are old
enough to take a keen interest in cricket.
Australians are not squealers. At any
rate, the Diggers were not —and are not;
nor is the big majority of the bushfolk,
struggling dourly under hard conditions
to make both ends meet. The North of
England abounds in Jess Oakroyds:
plain men of simple faith, of sturdy in-
dependence, shrewd, kindly beneath a
somewhat rough exterior, despisers of all
empty show and upstart condescension ;
and good sportsmen. —G. M. (W.A.).
Flat Repudiation
Property-owners have, for the last two
years, been staggering under a special
10 per cent. Commonwealth tax, which,
coupled with other heavy taxes —Federal,
State and municipal—has brought many
of them to their knees. The Prime
Minister positively announced in his
Budget speech that the 10 per cent, tax
was to be reduced to 5 per cent. His
Government has repudiated this under-
taking ; the tax is to be 6 per cent., Iso as
to provide portion of the grant to wheat-
growers.
I protest that it is grossly unfair to
place this 1 per cent, extra tax on one
section of the community for the benefit
of another section. Why don’t Ministers
and members hand over portion of the
salary-grab monev to the wheatgrowers?
—H.C.C. (N.S.W.).
Penalising Country People
We in our S. Aus. district know all about
the conveniences supplied by the telephone
branch. Our doctor lives 30 miles away.
When his services are required it means
calling a second exchange ; and they both
close at 6 p.m. five days of the week,
1 p.m. on Saturdays and all day Sunday.
The “opening fee” is Is. 6d., so that
means 35., plus the unit call fee. As our
local exchange closes at 6 p.m., of course
we lose the advantage of cheaper even-
ing rates. Yet we pay the same rent as
the people who have continuous service.
Adelaide can ring Melbourne for 2s. lOd.
after 9 p.m.; a 30-mile call costs us 3s. 6d.
Oh, yes, it’s a service to be proud of.—
Fodgie (S.A.).
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
F.A.8.: Sheer doggerel; even cows might
shy at it... .H.T.M.: Halting verse
1.G.: Right off our beat... ,G. 8.: A mean-
ingless squawk T.O’C.: “Reverie” has a
faint glimmer of promise, but you’ll have to
get away from things that have been said a
thousand times P.O’F.: The verse is too
mystical for these columns. Still, it has melody
and feeling Z.M.: Some point in the reflec-
tions, but these disorderly rhymes set our teeth
on edge... .V.M.G.: You have some poetry
in you, but your description of sunset colors
which
Exquisitely blend and merge,
Yet anxious lest one sliould mar the other’s verge
goes perilously near to bathos.. . .M.R.: Yours
is a very reedy pipe... .Rufantuf: You couldn’t
have chosen a better pen-name to indicate the
nature of your poetic wares F.E.L.: Only
suitable for a sentimental lady’s album....
McL.J.: Some good lines and some atrocious
ones. With more polish you should see print.
Jennifer: Catastrophic verse W. 8.: Suf-
fers from a riotous excess of metaphors....
C.C.: Don’t know about a gift for poetry, but
you write some passable exercises in rhyme. Try
some less spacious subjects... .N.T.: Not new
—in our time we’ve read of church services being
interrupted by horses, cats, dogs, snakes, kan-
garoos and magpies... .K.T.: Might pass with
a more humorous ending... .J.A.R.: You’ll
have to peep at the past elsewhere D.G.S.:
It did take a lot of chasing around to capture
that small point K.J.: One-tenth story, nme-
tenths essay on the evils of drink W.A.8.:
Too many corpses in the office ice-chest already.
J.H.: We can readily believe that it is your
“first attempt at making up poetry” J.M.:
Shelley pre-empted “The Skylark”... .Bellerive:
We sometimes feel the same way ourselves:
I hate the hot weather
With its glare and flies,
And stifling dust which
In clouds arise.
Seeked is the shade
Of a clump of trees,
And welcomed a change
With a fanning breeze.
I hate the hot weather
With its blazing sun,
Mosquitoes and fleas
When the day is done.
C.F.M.: That dusky maiden and rum-
soaked planter plot is encrusted with barnacles.
M.V.: Out of a hundred and one possible
endings you picked the one that has been used
most L.S.: Good knowledge of subject but
no idea as to correct presentation R.N.H.:
Somewhat long for our purposes 8.A.:
Wretched handwriting killed all desire to read
beyond the third page... .P.J.8.: Without
merit C.W.: You describe your characters
as if you were filling in a police-identification
card F.L.: Grew weary of Martha’s hys-
terics EJ.G.: Despite the Sydney setting, it
doesn’t ring true A.S.: Whenever a writer
introduces a doctor, a lawyer, a banker and
a retired gent, in a club smoking-room we
look out for a dull yarn... .R.S.T.: Rubbish!
Australian abos. don’t worship stone images
with eyes of g01d... .G.H.K.: No use for
freakish literary styles T.H.: The killing of
seven characters in one short story is not a
bad effort —given a novel, you might wipe
out the world I.O.: Baby-changing plot
pensioned off 5.N.8.: Mawkish P.Q.:
Only a landlubber could write about sailors
like that M.K.; Would only make Light
Horsemen laugh... .U.C.: Feeble: 0.H..
Slippery Sam slid into the basket.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS
8.J.W.: Large lady you had hanging from
window ledge was gently lowered into w.p.b.
K.D.: Can’t see those deadbeats drift-
ing into our columns... .S.W.: 111-constructed
sketch P.M.: None bad, but none suitable.
G.H.F.: Dislike drawings that have to be
plastered with explanatory labels... .0.J.: Still
the work of a prentice hand... .L.S.: Picture
of Dad riding an outsize billygoal flatly re-
fused E. 8.: Not clear enough for repro-
duction C.T.: Drawing of crumpled-looking
pair refused... .M.A.H.: You’ve concealed
the point of the joke J. 8.: Put fewer
and better-drawn figures into your sketches....
A.S.: Never saw a cow that shape
T.J.S.: See no reason to encourage your
efforts W.V.: Poorly drawn, and the
subject was stale before your picture arrived.
N.H.G.: Your lack of skill outweighs your
sense of humor... .H.L.: Jest too feeble to
carry the drawing... .E.F.: Not good enough,
but you have plenty of time... .W.G.L.. Crude.
M.R.: Gag not worth rehashing S.D.:
Well, frankly, we prefer mother-in-law to her
daughter, who appears to be twice her mother’s
age M.C.F.: Have you ever seen the inside
of a shearing-shed?... .P.T.: Needs a lot of
finishing touches 8.M.: Not quite up to our
standard; try again... .C.C/N.: No use for
sorrowful-looking Hebrew talking pidgin Eng-
lish.... D.M.C.: Sketch resembles close-up of
battle between two armies of moths H.E.J.:
Disregard all the laws of art, and you are bound
to find editors disregarding your work....
T.K.: Both moderately good, but the gags are
deadweights S.J.M.: Picture of two kooka-
burras conversing about the destiny of Aus-
tralia declined W.J.H.: If we told you in
1923 to “try again in ten years” we overesti-
mated your capabilities. Make it another ten.
P. 8.: Just thrown together.


Silver Threads
They tell the tale of advancing years
and rob you of the youthful appear-
ance that care and attention to the
skin and figure have preserved. Let
Dr. Allen’s Stain help you. By
following the simple directions, you
can, in the privacy of your own home,
restore the natural shade of your hair
in a way that will defy detection.
Thousands of women are using Dr.
Allen’s Stain in brown or black
shade, the most effective reviver for
grey hair it is possible to use.
All chemists, 4/- per bottle
D s ALLEN'S Mexican
WALNUT-STAIN
FRIENDLY SERVICE
ALL THE TIME
Some of the time, if not all the time, you must save money, but
if you are Mr. Average Citizen you know that all the time is nearer
the mark.
Whatever your margin on any one week’s salary, it won’t provide
for a sudden necessity to pay, say, £5O or £lOO. No one week’s
salary will provide education for your children, heavy medical
expenses, or comfort in your declining years.
Therefore, to make provision for the big calls, you have to save,
more or less, all the time.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank provides a friendly, efficient
savings service—all the time.
Cbmmonwcaltb Savto JMof Australia
C Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
m
f
Conducted by WIN. FOWi.ES.
CARLTON’S, Spencer-street (Melbourne’s
Greatest Refined Hotel Values). Single Rooms
from 4/6 day; Double from 7/6. All meals
optional (also at reduced rates), in tearooms
or cafe; Room, with breakfast, from 6/6 Single
or 11/6 Double. All less 10 per cent, if staying
one week or more. Complete board from 10/6
day, 65/- week, both net, free garage. Special
rates for conferences, clubs, etc. The Manager,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
address for your letter.
ƒ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying ami
Selling liist Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union,
A WOM AN' S
LETTER
The infinite variety displayed by Santa
Claus in his arrivals this year deserves
a word. Of course, being who he is, he
has every means of transport at his com-
mand. He arrived in the Domain
by aeroplane; he arrived by aeroplane
and parachute (understudied by a dummy
in this part of the trip) and afterwards
continued his triumphal journey on a
tractor at the Victoria Barracks. At the
Limbless Soldiers’jparty in David Jones’s,
he decided on the picturesque, and came
in a hurry from Venice in a gondola,
drawn by fairies. Every now and again
the kind-hearted fellow remembered that
fairies aren’t Volga boatmen, and got
out and pushed his barque along. In one
city store he set up his workshop and
could be seen by the most sceptical super-
vising the making of doll and yacht;
again he made his appearance with a
patriarchal beard in which rabbits and
teddy-bears roamed gaily, up which little
dolls climbed and on which impudent
little monkeys swung.
President of the Society of Artists Syd
Ure Smith, just back from Europe, is
full of news of Australians who are forg-
ing ahead in London. The night after
his arrival former Bulletin artist Dave
Low, just back from a trip to Russia,
gave a party to which everybody of
note in London’s art world was invited,
including J. B. Priestley, of “Good Com-
panions” fame, and William Rothen-
stein, whose memories were the talk of
London. Dave Low, incidentally, since
his visit to Petrograd has grown a little
black beard. Priestley wanted to know
why the mischief we should be able to
buy books cheaper in Australia than they
can be bought in London ; whereas Syd-
ney’s old friend Somerset Maugham, with
whdm Syd dined the following day, de-
clares that books the world over should
be cheaper. He thinks that if novels were
sold at three shillings so many more of
them would be bought that the writer
would make just as much money, and get
the benefit of a larger audience.
Charlie Bryant, a Manly citizen, has
been elected chairman of the London
Sketch Club ; Will Dyson has written a
book which expounds economics with the
impossible title of “An Artist Among the
Bankers.” His pretty daughter, known
to both Sydney and Melbourne, was busy
painting and sketching a group of Indian
dancers who were the rage of the
moment; Gwen Spencer and Marjorie
Ramsey, two presswomen formerly on
this city’s papers, are holding down good
jobs. Raymond McGrath, who will de-
sign anything from a Cambridge don’s
house to a cocktail bar, the interior of
an air-liner or a set of glass furniture, is
kept spinning from one commission to
another. Marie Tempest and Graham
Brown have a home in Regent’s -Park
which has a flowerful garden behind a
high, red brick wall. On the lawn is
an old willow tree —its branches kept
outspread by iron hoops. Beneath its
green coolness on a warm and bright
summer’s evening a small company of
Australians dined to the accompaniment
of Graham Brown stories. In the house
the Sydney artist was pleased to see Hey-
sens, Streetons and Lindsays upon the
walls. George Lambert’s sons, Maurice
and Constant, are bright stars in the
galaxy: Maurice as a sculptor, Constant
as a composer-conductor. It was he who
was chosen to conduct the two perform-
ances at Covent Garden specially staged
for the members of the Economic Con-
ference.
Quite a purple patch in a week that
was mostly a mad scramble around the
gift counters in the bargain basement
was the exchange of vows at All Saints’,
Woollahra, between Mary Adams, of that
suburb, and Arnold Moulden, of Ade-
laide. Both the bride and the ’groom are
expert ski-ers, well known at Kosci-
usko. Mary was captain of the N. S.
Wales women’s ski team, and is sec-
tary of the . Australian Women’s Ski
Club- The bride, who is a Knox on the
distaff side, received congratulations and
compliments at Rona, the E. W. Knox
home at Bellevue Hill. She was the white
and lustrous figure in a composition of
mother and father (Dr. H. C. Adams),
six ’maids billowing in sea-blue chiffons,
and a radiant bridegroom. The bouquets
are worth a note. They were round ;
the bride’s was of gardenias, while pink-
and gold water-lilies formed those of the
bridesmaids. These were cousin Philippa
Stephen, sisters Valentine and Alison
Adams, Molly Wolfcarius, Meredith
Warburton and Anne Gordon.
At the Westralian Association’s “wongi”
in Sydney last week Senator Walter
Kingsmill, whose lady is the president,
told of the beauties of the western coast,
and related the story of the capture and
holding of Busselton by the Yankees for
twenty-four hours. At the end of that
time they were swept into the sea, or at
least into their ships, by a group of local
timber-cutters—Samsons who knocked
down their pillars of jarrah daily. There
was music arranged by Amy Brown, and
after that community singing, and the
rollicking ended with a Sir Roger de
Coverley. Senator Bertie Johnson led
this revel, in which the Arthur Pixleys,
of Queensland, joined. Among the
lookers-on were secretary Mrs. Mattei
and treasurer Mrs. Goodisson.
When Peter Pan is luring Wendy away
to be mother to his band of small boys,
who have got lost through falling out of
their prams, Wendy naturally wants to
know what happens to the little girls
who have got lost in like manner. “Ah,”
replies Peter, “girls don’t fall out of
their prams. They’re too clever!” After
that the victory was his. What little girl
could resist the flattery of being told she
was a superior being to her brothers? So
Wendy goes off to live in her woodland
house, and Marguerite Cullen Ward, the
Wendy of the present production at the
Savoy, makes her going and subsequent
deportment the most natural things in
the world. Photo, from Monte Luke.
Young “old” Abbotsleigh girls feel that
in Nancy Goldfinch they have a real
link with the art world of London.
Nancy, a daughter of the C.S.R. magnate,
went to Europe a year or so ago to
study; since last July she has been in
Cornwall taking lessons from Lamorna
Birch in landscape and seascape painting.
Sydney’s Charlie Bryant, who studied for
some time in Cornwall, took an hour
or so off from painting academy suc-
cesses to introduce Nancy to a cluster
of English artists of the choicest bouquet.
One of the most brilliant gardens of
Ashfield surrounds Norland Nursing Col-
lege ; last week the flowers nodded gaily
to a new arrival. It was a handsome fir-
tree, and it stood with a nicely-blended
air of episcopal dignity and benignity in
the middle of the tennis court. Its
former home had been the churchyard
of St. John’s near by, and it was making
its final appearance as a glittering Christ-
mas tree. Around it Norland babies, in
company with big brothers and sisters,
and sometimes even mothers, who had
been Norland babies, clapped their hands
and watched while a stalwart Santa
handed out gifts for all. Matron Davis,
who was hostess, had a busy afternoon,
for there were over 300 guests and
trainees to be looked after. For the first
time in many years Premier Stevens and
Mrs. Stevens failed to turn up at the
Christmas party, Mrs. Stevens not being
well enough. Major Jarvie represented
the Government.
To Barbara Wilson, the bright-faced
youngster of this photograph, belongs the
womanly hand that has helped to guide
the course of “Honi Soit” during the past
and the just-passing year. Barbara, as an,
arts undergrad., was keenly interested in
this Uni. paper, which the Faculty of
Arts founded five or six years ago. It
is a contrast to “Hermes,” the masculine
mouthpiece of the halls of learning,
in that it is a weekly and concerns itself
with the social life of the students.
Barbara, herself a writer of essays and
short stories, was a ruthless sub-editor
during her term of office.
A small girl from Dalwood in a green
silk dress walked through the crowds
hugging a greenly caparisoned elephant.
A diminutive eighteenth-century lady and
gentleman, complete in every detail,
blushed ecstatically when they caught the
judge’s eye and were awarded prizes ; a
white-clad Russian dancer was delighted
when Santa Claus didn’t know whether
she was a girl or a boy and was puzzled
what sort of toy to give her from his
pack. A dear little girl wreathed her
brown hair with gum-blossom, and in her
pretty muslin frock represented gumnuts.
Hundreds of little girls and boys, dressed
as fairies with glittering wands, as gay
red-coated Zouaves, as Dutch girls, as
Highlanders or whatever the imagination
of mother suggested, turned up at the
Dalwood party in the Wentworth, for
which Josephine Marks was the secre-
tary. Other supports were Dr. Frank
Louat’s blonde wife, in cool blue linens,
and Nell Waters, striped in black and
white. The Kingsmill lady gave out the
prizes, and herself received half a dozen
bouquets of congratulation on her wed-
ding anniversary.
A wreath of mistletoe hung coyly in the
hallway when the Women Pioneers
staged their old-fashioned Christmas, and
the next morning the polished boards be-
neath it were shabbier than any other
part of the floor space in the club. There’s
still a bond or two between 1933 and,
say, 1833. Brandy snaps were another
old-time frivolity that went well; so was
the Santa Claus, though he was modern
enough to come down in the lift. Before
the grown-ups started on their fun-mak-
ing there was a fancy-dress party for the
children. These revels were directed by
a group of belles of Macquarie’s day in
old-time frocks of willow-patterned
crepe trimmed with snowy organdie
fichus. President Mrs. Lingham and
secretary Carlotta Doyle were a pictur-
esque pair, the one in French-grey
georgette, the other in lobelia blues. But
the belle of the party was Miss Eliza-
beth Betts, a descendant of Samuel
Marsden, waltzing exquisitely in a frock
of dove-grey.
Maoriland is going to approve of Gov-
ernor-General Bledisloe’s new A.D.C.
He comes of a very old Wiltshire family,
though the title only dates from his
grandfather, and takes to windy Welling-
ton with him a good-looking wife who
is still practically a blushing bride. The
Viscount and Viscountess Long of
Wraxall, who arrived in Sydney by the
Orama on their way to join the vice-
regal circle in Enzed, were married after
that liner had left England, and had to
fly to Paris and make the journey to
Toulon to catch up with their ship. She
was Miss Laura Charteris, and is a grand-
daughter of Lord Wemyss. Julia, another
daughter of the Marchesa Torrigiani,
came by the Orama to join mother and
sister Waltha. Also on board were artist
Hera Roberts, Jocelyn Gaden and Mrs.
J. M. Macarthur Onslow, who had with
her a young cousin, Miss Emily de Falbe.
Her father is General de Falbe, and she
is a great granddaughter of that Hannibal
Macarthur who lived at the Vineyard,
Parramatta River, now called Subiaco.
The audience for “Cyrano de Bergerac”
grew with every successive performance
till on the final night the Royal was
crowded from stalls to gallery. The love
scene in the third act had captured the
imagination of every woman who has,
has ever had or hopes still to have
a lover, and not even a breakdown in
the tram and ferry services could have
kept them away. The wooing of the
white-robed Roxane (a picturesque dress,
hers, with its fitting basqued bodice and
spreading long skirts) by the golden-
voiced Cyrano owed something of its
hypnotic effect to the set (it looked like
an illustration to a fairy tale) designed by
Dr. Cardamatis and carried out by clever
Leslie Board.
“Something Victorian” was the pass-
port into the Society of Women Writers’
and Institute of Journalists’ party last
week. If it were only a brooch on a
chain of such vintage, the wearer was
eligible to dance and make merry in
Nock and Kirby’s Pompadour room.
Graceful Rosalie Wilson, in an 1840
quaintness of white frills and green
bodice, scored the prize. Novelist Jessie
Urquhart wore grandmother’s poplin
dress, the color of amber. Isabel Gullett
and Blanche D’Alpuget had much to do
with the night’s success.
Margery Halloran’s ivory satin wed-
ding gown fastened down the back with
minute pearl buttons, it had a princess
train, and was split at the sides just
enough to give the bride’s shoes a chance
to look at the decorations of St. Philip’s
on Church Hill. This was massed with
blue delphiniums and hydrangea. The
delphiniums occurred again in company
with Cecil Brunner roses in the brides-
maids’ bouquets. Their soft pink frocks
had frilly trains, and altogether they
were as pretty a bunch of girlhood as the
old church has ever smiled on. Bride's
father Aubrey, who is a man of law and
one of the heads of the Historical
Society, handed over his daughter to the
care of ’groom Broughton Beresford
O’Conor, and padre H. W. Barder
applied the celestial seal.
The Richmonds were one of the hap-
piest family groups that left by the
Taiping for a China cruise. The young-
sters, five of them, range from seven to
fourteen years ; father, Major Richmond,
owns Mogila and Goodooga, and until re-
cently owned Haddon Rig. Mrs. Rich-
mond hails from Scotland, and is a
daughter of Major-General Wilson.


Missing Friends.
Re Estate of FELIX McDONNELL, deceased.
McDONNELL (or MCDONALD), FELIX, late
of 26 Forbes Street, East Sydney, died
March 31, 1933. —Would the next-of-kin of
the above-named or any person knowing their
whereabouts please communicate with W. J.
KESSELL, Public Trustee, 107-109 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.
To ROBERT LESLIE SCOTT formerly of
Korweinguboora in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife ANNIE
ELIZABETH SCOTT has commenced divorce
proceedings against you on the ground of
desertion during three years and upwards.
Unless you enter an appearance in the Office
of the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court in
Melbourne on or before the Twenty-fourth day
of January 1934 the suit may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs.
If you intend to defend the suit- you must also
file an answer in the said Office on or before
the Third day of February 1934.
P. J. RIDGEWAY, 379 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.- •
>
f
/ Why Not
//Spend It In Victoria ?
S' Travel! See Victoria’s beauties unusual
mountain scenery, picturesque rivers, bush
./ and pastoral country, attractive seaside resorts,
// Melbourne’s historic buildings and other attrac-
/ tions —enjoy your vacation to the full.
Make sure, too, of real comfort in holiday headquarters.
s
@lO
Stay At
** Collins Street,
Melbourne.
For Comfort
and Service
Room Only or
Inclusive
Accommodation.
Reasonable Tariff
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY'S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from the roar
of trams, etc. Running Hot and Cold Water
in every room.
Bed and Breakfast, from .. 10/6
Meals, ala carte, from .. . 2/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Write to the Manager jor full information.
Melbourne
Chatter
Doubts are set at rest, for the King
has decided to give Victoria a lord as
Governor —the Australian-born Lord
Huntingfield, who is married to an Ameri-
can. It is over two years since Lord Stone-
haven packed up his traps and vacated
the rambling stone pile which rears
its turrets above the green waves
of the Botanical Gardens. Memories of
grandeur, round about the birth of the
century, are lurking still in its high,
gloomy rooms, but it’s a cold and
draughty building. Renovations are being
mooted, which- is just as well, for Lady
Huntingfield would swoon at the sight of
the furniture. Moths have nibbled, and a
double supply of ugly jugs and basins
glare grimly in each uncomfortable
bedroom.
The week witnessed an orgy of before-
Christmas parties. At The Croft, Ston-
nington-place, the Wilfred Brookes
couple tempted their guests with the little
twiddly savories, so quick to eat, so tedi-
ous to make, that are the natural offsiders
of sherry and cocktails.- The lions of
the festivity were Sir John Sandeman
Allen and his lady, newly arrived from
England. Lady Allen, in cream lace, hid
her hair in an expanse of black hat
brim. The hostess’s flowered gown had
a sandy background, and her choice in
millinery ran to parchment tints. The
Frank Doyles, Dr. and Mrs. Oavid
Rivett, the Gordon Johnstones, Dr. and
Mrs. Cyril Tonkin, Mrs. Head and
Elyne Chauvel were some of the those
invited.
The Dobson family, whose stronghold
is the Apple Isle, had a come-together
at Greenwich, Toorak. The Dobson lady
must take more rest these days; she
had to make her greetings seated, which
fact did not detract from the warmth of
her welcome and the merry bobbing of
ostrich plumes in her black bonnet.
Joint hostess Mrs. Percy Dobson made
Mrs. Alfred Dobson (an arrival on this
week’s mailboat) known to the other
guests. Among those who wrung one
another’s hands in the true Christmas
spirit were Judge and Mrs. Williams, Dr.
and Mrs. Geoff Austin, the Colin Temple-
tons, Cara Barrett, Hilary Symonds and
Dr. Ernest Taylor.
Some of the young things had the
brainwave of a six-to-ten beano at Scott’s
to make a jingle in the Children’s Aid
Society’s money-box. Starting with cock-
tails the party developed into dancing,
with visits between times to a buffet for
nourishment. With the sun still high
in the heavens, the date being within a
touch of the year’s longest day, damsels
were undecided in their choice of attire.
Standby of every smart wardrobe, the
long and airy race frock, worn with a pert
little hat, fitted the occasion most suit-
ably. Betty Timmins was in pink, with
spring flowers blooming in her millinery.
With her patterned faille Yvonne Cox
wore a scrap of a white hat which did not
whisk the noses off her partners. Rose-
mary Downes fluttered shell-pink, Joan
Hill orchid shades and Pat Carnegie
snuff-tinted chiffon.
The F. W. Thring couple did things
well at Menzies with an outsize in par-
ties. Habitues of first-night seats were
there in hundreds. Many had to stand,
but then they saw everything; early-
comers who grabbed chairs couldn't
glimpse much more than the eyebrows
of the stars who warbled bits of the
cause of the party, the musical play
“Collit’s Inn.” The stairs to the ante-
room were so popular a vantage point
that Robert Chisholm had to leap like a
mountain stag when his turn came to
sing. Gladys Moncrieff hummed to her-
self in between shaking each of the
hands invited. Alongside stood Valerie
Purves, who shared the hostess’s job with
Mrs. Thring, and clever Mrs. Cyril
Monk, who composed the music. Mrs.
Monk, Claude Flemming and Byrl Walk-
ley also contributed excerpts. Women
wore their gayest clothes, and quite de-
lectable were the things to eat. Savories
primped themselves round blocks of
colored ice, an electric globe twinkling
in the heart of each berg. The largest
silver teapot in Melbourne helped along
a bevy of medium-sized brewers, and
there were chocolates for anyone who
had a corner left after the final layer of
strawberries and cream.
St. Catherine’s has lost its beloved
principal, Ruth Langley. The school
speech night happened two days before
her death. Miss Langley was present,
but not well enough to read her report,
her brother, Canon Langley, performing
that duty. The lines she wrote, the fruit
of culture, experience and tact, concluded
with advice to each parent and child:
“Laugh and be merry whatever happens ;
never let pity for yourself enter your
mind.”
Mrs. D. W. D. Nicholl turned her back
upon the cold English winter and arrived
for a visit to her parents, the Walter
Dunnes, of Toorak. She stepped from
the deck of the Orama with finger-nails
lacquered sunset, the new bright pink
shot with gold-dust (there’s a sunrise, too
—a silver sprinkling on pink). Fellow-
travellers chatted about the rage for
black in Paris and the seductive dress-
designers who brush mauve tones into
grey streaks of hair. So if you are brave
enough to be on the rise of fashion, not
just the crest, you can make something
uncommon out of that troublesome grey-
ing lock.
Nan Wilkinson and Harry Winneke
decided that the cheeriest possible Christ-
mas dinner is eaten on a honeymoon ;
so, with the festive season a few days off,
they took a matrimonial plunge in Scots
Church. Three or four perfect magnolias
opened their velvety petals in the bou-
quet, an accessory to the bridal gown
with its puffed-to-the-elbow sleeves, and
a sweep of tulle veil was attached to a
high coronet of buds. June Wilkinson
and Maud Barter followed in a wake of
foamy white tulle and organdie over
palest pink taffetas. Frills swirled into
short trains, they carried roses and wee
Cecile Brunners wreathed their hair. The
’groom is the elder son of Judge and
Mrs. Winneke. The bride’s parents held
a merrymaking at Grosvenor. Broo-
thorn snapped their daughter in one of
her trousseau hats.
Some of Mrs. Edgar Dye’s friends
played bridge at the Quamby Club, and
a few more scurried aloft with arms full
of Christmas shopping to take part in
the tea interlude. Mrs. Dye’s spotty
white frock was protected by one of the
fashionable short-sleeved three-quarter
coats in black ripple cloth. Daughter
Audrey had a dash of green upon her
navy ensemble.
It’s not often one has a chance of see-
ing Joan Lang without her beloved horn-
rims, but Vaudry Robinson persuaded her
to pose thus. The clever Joan’s forte is
character-acting. She was in “Waltzing
Matilda,” provided most of the comic
relief in “Children in Uniform,” has
filled a number of roles with the Gregan
McMahon Players and was one of the
young things in whom Beatrice Day took
a particular interest. Her farewell on
the Garrick’s boards (for she hurriedly
packed her trunks for London) was
as one of the damsels of Nineveh in
“Jonah and the Whale.” Until she suc-
cumbed to the lure of the footlights Joan
made her home with Mr. and Mrs. J. L.
Currie, of Derrinallum.
Mrs. Russell Jackson is off to Port
Pirie, where she will meet her husband,
who is captain of the City of Kimberley.
The steamer calls at odd out-of-the-way
places and touches Australia every few
months.
Perth enjoys the holiday season:
Hunt Club members reined in at Freshwater
Bay Yacht Club for festivities other than
beagle-bouncing. In the lounge overnight had
sprung up - a huge Christmas tree, glittering
with dancing crystal balls and whatnots, and
bearing the burden of many parcels. Hunts-
man Jack Durack and his pretty wife, she with
reddish tinges in her chiffons, handed out the
gifts and stepped merrily to “Sir Roger.”
Mabel Teather was there, of course, and Mrs.
Victor Harwood; the Smily sisters led a frolic,
Edna with wispy black feathers edging her
vine-green marocain and Connie sprouting
scarlet splodges on gun-grey flamisol.
A cloud of Honiton lace hovered tremulously
over snowy peaks and valleys of gossamer lace
when Hazel Peploe forsook single blessedness
at Perth School chapel. Cyril Morgan, who
had sent along the sheaf of Madonna lilies,
stood by with the ring and Archdeacon Huddle-
ston pronounced a blessing. The sun’s dying
rays filtered through the stained-glass windows
on to ’maid Gertrude Mitchell’s filmy pink
flounces, which started under her chin, wound
caressingly over the shoulders and ended in
a deep V at the back. Mrs. Peploe piped an
eye in a cunning combination of black and
Lido blue.
Northamites flocked to the Town Hall for
the local Repertory Club’s presentation of “Plus
Fours.” Justin Walsh, who had the production
in hand, painted attractive scenery and moulded
some enviable statuettes for decorations. After
the show there was dancing, the sisters Veale,
who did good work on the boards, both appear-
ing in virginal white; Margaret Walsh buzzed
about officially in floral honey chiffons; Muriel
Lee Steere trod a measure in crimson ninon;
Judy Clarkson’s cornflower-blue frills fluttered
lightly, and Isla Saw swung folds of turquoise-
blue velvet.
Dorothy Powell perched two or three inches
of white sisal straw on her golden curls, sent
three shades of blue rippling across white silk
crepe, and set off to keep a matrimonial date
with Harold, scion of the David Krantz house-
hold, South Australia. Mrs. Harold Boas held
a posy, and chinked glasses at the Savoy, later
waving the couple off to Sydney.
Tea, with an aftermath of cocktails, flowed
mellifluously at the Esplanade Hotel at the
instigation of Mrs. Freddie Piesse, whose tiny
eye veil, swinging from tan delustred straw,
topped a suit of sunflower blistered crepe.
Daughter Mrs. Edgar Grant, cool and ice-
creamy in white suiting, came down from her
station home to help pour, and stayed to wave
farewell as mamma sailed for Fogland in the
Cathay.
Women Service Guild members shed their
cloaks of office and purposeful airs and adopted
the Christmas spirit at their Yuletide party,
held in headquarters, National House. Pre-
sentation flowers abounded; Mrs. Rischbieth
and Mrs. Sinclair clutched a couple of clusters
apiece, and Mesdames Blowes, Vallance and
Joyner held sheaves of gladioli. There were
dancing, a be-parcelled Christmas tree, musical
items and dance numbers
A collection of wildflower paintings by Lady
Bedford, wife of W.A.’s erstwhile Admiral
Governor, decked the walls of the G.F.S. rooms
when the National Council of Women met for
a tea-and-music afternoon. Mrs. Pratt, girt
with topaz sand crepe spattered with brown,
murmured presidential greetings, with secretary
Mrs. Mansfield on the left wing.
A few lines from Adelaide:
There was a cheery dinner at the Lyceum
Club when our six women lawyers were guests
of Uni. law students. Star of the occasion was
Margaret Lunn. The hostesses, who num-
bered 13, had decorated the table and drawing-
room with pink gladioli and carnations. Helen
Solomon (chairman of the committee) presided.
The inter-collegiate cricket match between
Saints and Princes was played on the St. Peter’s
College Oval. Afternoon-tea, served in the
Memorial Hall, was an innovation. His Ex. was
entertained by headmaster J. H. Hill and his
wife. Mesdames F. Rymill, Hynes, Lavington
Bonython, E. Hughes, C. Fisher, H. W. Hod-
getts, F. Brookes and G. Sunter decorated the
stage and tables with flowers. Ice-creams were
sold on the oval by Mesdames Fred Porter, Roy
Bullock and M. Forbes. Mrs. Dudley Hayward
and Mrs. Edmund Bowman gathered in the
bawbees at the door, and a flock of pretty
girls served tea.
Society was in full force at Birkalla when
Adelaide Polo Club opened its season. Quite
a number of young players made their appear-
ance, much to the gratification of the veterans.
Club-captain Frank Downer did the honors at
afternoon-tea.
Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Edmunds, of Aldgate,
gave a dance at the Silver Lake ballroom for
the friends of daughter Victoria, which served
also as a welcome-home to Dr. and Mrs. Alan
London, who have just returned after a honey-
moon in the eastern States. Mrs. Edmunds
looked well in Burgundy ring velvet, and her
daughter chose rose-petal chiffon.
The ballroom at Government House was taxed
to its utmost when Lady Hore-Ruthven enter-
tained 450 women members of Girl Guide com-
mittees from all parts cf S. Aus. The chate-
laine of the v.-r. gunyah, as State Chief Com-
missioner, received her guests wearing the
Guide uniform, and was backed up by other
commissioners in navy blue. Lady Hore-
Ruthven made a farewell speech—her hubby’s
term is nearing its end. Afternoon-tea was
served in the dining-room, and the guests then
enjoyed music in the garden.
Miss C. M. Ashworth, headmistress, who
has resigned from the position, was entertained
by the staff of the Methodist Ladies’ College at
the Piccadilly. The Parents and Friends’ Asso-
ciation joined in the party, and Miss Ashworth,
who goes to be principal of Columba Presby-
terian Girls’ School, Dunedin (M.L.), was pre-
sented with a crystal toilet set, a vase and a
clock as a mark of their esteem.
Social annals of the Speck:
His Ex. and Lady Clark went to Campbell
Town for the centenary celebration of St.
Luke’s Church. David Taylor received distin-
guished guests with the rector, Rev. W. J. Dod-
son, and the Council Clerk, C. F. Pitt.
The Launceston Players wound up their
season with A. A. Milne’s comedy “Ariadne.”
Berenice O’Brien took the Marie Tempestuous
part of the leading woman. The play is a
thin little affair, but it was brightly produced
by Mrs. W. K. Mclntyre.
Headmaster E. E. Unwin and Mrs. Unwin
entertained a big throng at the garden party
in the grounds of Friends’ School. Lovely
weather smiled on the show. There were phy-
sical-culture displays, exhibitipns of scholars’
work (the pottery section was outstanding), and
tea in the open to the music of the Municipal
Band.
Mrs. J. G. Mitchell rang the gong for a
big tea muster of old friends to welcome Leila
and May Butler home after a two-years’ tour
of the Cold Country. The Allardyce lady was
a guest of Mrs. Mitchell at the moment, and
shared in the entertainment. Roses made lovely
splashes of color in the living- and dining-
r°Mrs. Thos. Lyons farewelled Mrs. Howard
Buchanan at a bridge fray, held at her own
home, Lyndhurst. Good-byes were also said
to Mrs. Beckley and Mrs. Cathie, departing for
the mainland, and daughter Sybil Lyons ran
a party of youngsters on the same day as a
send-off for the Buchanan girls.
Dark-eyed Sheila Kelly was tied for better
or worse to Stephen T. Hodgman by the Bishop
at St. David’s. The bride defied superstition
by sporting a green frock worn with a big
picture hat. There were rejoicings afterwards
at the Harry Kellys’ home, Montrose.
Zelda, daughter of the late E. O. and Mrs.
Bisdee, Lovely Banks, Melton Mowbray, an-
nounces her engagement to Percy, eldest son
of the late P. I. Lennon, Newcastle House,
Enfield, Co. Meath (Ireland). '
Col. Mills’s time as commander of the Light
Horse Regiment in Tassie having expired,
Major Donald Cameron, son of Col. C. St.
Clair Cameron, of South African service fame,
has been appointed to the job. The Major
served in the Great War with the Cameron
Highlanders, was twice mentioned in dispatches
and bagged a Military Cross.
Macdonald Watkyn Woods, son of ex-
Sneaker W. A. Woods, has carried off the Tas.
Rhodes scholarship for 1934. His pet subject
is hydraulic engineering.


Black Cat,
BY MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING.
THE jungle closed in, black and oppres-
sive ; it was impossible to see, but
he could hear the tiger’s steady purr-
ing, feel it coming nearer, death in its
voice and that awful cigar in its mouth.
The black darkness lifted—yes, there it
was, leering, vast, implacable, still smok-
ing the ‘cigar—and—God! crouching
for a spring! The purring was a menac-
ing thunder. He threw out his arm in
terror as the beast sprang, landing heavily
on his chest
“What on earth do you think you’re
doing?” Mabel’s querulous voice pierced
the shadows. “Hullo! Where did that
come from?”
Tom opened his eyes to stare gratefully
at a small black cat sitting on his chest
washing its face and purring amiably at
him. There was no cigar. Mabel, in
the middle distance, was sitting up in
bed ; she rubbed her right .ear and glared
at the cat.
“Black cat,” Tom said sleepily.
“You don’t tel! me!” she answered.
“Well, you ought to know—you were
fighting with it just now until you
changed your mind and turned on me
instead.”
“Sorry. Did I dong you? But the
tiger was smoking.”
“Oh, wake up!” she told him wearily.
“Put the wretched thing out —it must
have come in at the window. It’s time to
get up, anyhow.”
He padded over to the window with
the cat, and became completely awake.
“Black cat,” he said. “Isn’t that sup-
posed to be lucky? Or something?”
“Lucky!” she scoffed. “Tom, Baxter,
I’m ashamed of you! You talk like an
Irish charwoman. Lucky!.' Don’t you
let father hear you say anything like that
—you know how he hates superstition
and all that rubbish.”
“Righto,” Tom said, stepping morosely
into his slippers. “I wouldn’t hurt father
for the world. Need I shave?”
She peered critically at his face. “A
shave might make it a bit better —yes,
I think I’d try a shave now,” she advised,
remembering the dong.
Damn father. Tom stropped his
razor and soaped his face. Damn father.
After a shower he felt better, but back
in the bedroom Mabel took the edge off
that.
“You know, father’s a very remarkable
man. If he’s down on superstition you
can depend on it superstition’s wrong.
Father didn’t make his money by super-
stition, did he?” she demanded as if
Tom had sworn that he had.
“I suppose not.”
“Very well, then. And Tony and Alice
can thank their lucky stars, when they
get the money, that he didn’t.”
The reasoning wasn’t sound, but it
didn’t matter. Tom knotted his-tie. When
they got it.... Sometimes an unholy
wish rose in his mind —that they would
never get it, that father would leave it
to the dogs’ home, or go on a final bust
and blow the lot. Or something.
“And don’t forget to look in at the
wireless man’s.this morning. Father was
complaining last night”....
Downstairs in the dining-room father
was firmly dug in behind the paper, but
his daughter was so bright and affec-
tionate and fussed so anxiously over
father’s breakfast that Tom did get a
look at the cable page before he had to
run for his train. He deliberately forgot
the wireless man as he passed his shop.
A lovely day. He almost forgot father
pinching the second-last “good” cigar
after breakfast as the North Shore
gardens slipped gleaming past him. He
filled up a foul old pipe and inhaled a
deep draught; father didn’t like pipes
in the house (he preferred pinching his
son-in-law’s cigars), but luckily father
didn’t own the Government railways.
It was Saturday, and there was a gay
tennisy-golfish look about the day, which
was just as lovely in George-street as in
the train. He stopped on the way to the
office and had a whisky-and-soda—not
because he wanted one, but father didn’t
like alcohol and it was such a lovely day.
Of course, it would be a good thing
if his children got father’s money. One
wasn’t a fool when it came to one’s own
boy and girl. 5ti11....
Once or twice, as the morning wore
on, he glanced at the windows and re-
membered that out there the day was
lovely. Once he remembered suddenly
the little black cat
So father didn’t like superstition, eh?
Too bad. In much the same way as he
didn’t like people dropping-in in the
evenings, no doubt. Sickening. Tom
hadn’t had a yarn with a mate, a slippers-
and-shirt-sleeves yarn, for donkey’s years.
And black cats were lucky. He’d
heard it dozens of times.
Damn father.
There was nothing to do in the office ;
and after another hour or so of doing
nothing he’d put his hat on and go home
to lunch (with father) and sit and listen
(to father) until dinner-time.... On a
glittering day like this!
The little black cat....
Abruptly he sat up. No. He wouldn’t
drag through that Saturday routine
to-day. Not by a damn sight. He put
his hat on now, cocked it airily, and
walked out of his room.
“Shan’t be back, Miss Paulton,” he
said genially to his secretary.
In the bank he stood in thought a
moment, his abstracted gaze on a sin-
cere-looking man who looked as if he
thought he knew him. Fifteen quid ought
to do it—nice little packet, fifteen quid.
He cashed the cheque, put the wad of
notes in his breast-pocket, l and came out
into the lovely day again. * Father still
disliking alcohol, he had another whisky-
and-soda before lunch.
He hadn’t done this sort of thing for
years—not since he was married. And
it was doing, him good; he could feel
that it was already.
Black .cats, r eh? He’d show ’em about
this superstition.,..
. J 1 :' ~
In the race tram an incoming passen-
ger trod on his toe and flopped into
the seat beside him. -
“Sorry, brother,” the man apologised,
and Tom saw that it was the sincere-
looking man —a very well-dressed man
shining with sincerity.
“Not at all,” Tom told him. “Didn’t
I see you in the bank this morning?”
“Did you?” the man said, opening his
paper. “Know anything good for to-
day?”
Tom chuckled. The man wasn’t very
friendly, but Tom didn’t care. “I just
know one end of a horse from the other,”
he confessed, “and that’s about all.”
“Uh hur. Too bad.” The man, not
interested, went on reading his paper.
But the day was too beautiful for that
sort of bosh. “But I’m going to make
the year’s rent to-day,” Tom persisted.
“And a bit over.”
“Goodoh.” The man still obviously
didn’t care a damn for anything but liis
paper.
“Yes. A black cat jumped through
my bedroom window this morning and
landed” —Tom touched his waistcoat —
“on my chest! ' A strange cat!”
The man lowered his paper. His eyes
were alight. “What did you say?” he
whispered. “On your chest?”
Tom nodded.
“And a stranger cat?”
Tom nodded again.
“But, brother,” the man protested, his
sincerity a shining magic, “it makes you
the mascot of the world! You can’t
lose!”
He bunched up his paper and leaned
towards Tom. “If I touch the place,” he
rubbed Tom’s waistcoat lightly, “I’m as
safe as houses! ” He laughed, his glitter-
ing sincere eyes full of delight. “Now I
can’t lose,” he said. “Thank you,
brother!” . 1 .
.The; tram being now at the gates of
the enclosure, he dropped off it and was
lost in the crowd.
Knowing only one end of a horse from
the other simplifies a day’s racing in one
way while it complicates it in another.
You may bet on the* stray whispers that
float about the enclosure from one knot
of muttering punters to another.; that is
the complicated way, because in time you
will catch the whispered name of every
horse in the field. Or you may run
down the list and choose a name because
you like (or hate) the sound of it. Natur-
ally, as Tom felt, it doesn’t matter which
you do if there is a black cat in it.
Catamaran —the name leapt out at
him from the board The first name
he saw! That should be a certainty.
Nothing in superstition, eh?
He walked briskly round to the tote
window. Two quid, perhaps three, for
a start on Catamaran, and he’d be play-
ing the rest of the day on his winnings.
He put his hand in his breast-pocket to
get the notes
A heavy blackness swooped down
upon the day, blotting out its glittering
loveliness for ever. There were no notes
there —the comfortable wad had gone!
This was bleak. There was a feverish
hysterical edge to this.... He fumbled
savagely, hopelessly, through the letters
and old bills in the pocket, but he knew
he was wasting his time. There was no-
thing but bills and old letters....
That swine—that sincere swine in the
tram when he touched the place where
the black cat had landed.... My God!
How could he have been such a f 001....
So he started the day fifteen quid
down.
Black cat, eh?
Miserably he searched his trouser-
pockets. A half-note and the change of
a pound—he remembered changing a
pound—about 27 shillings
“Well, now tell ’im the story of yer
life, mister,” a hoarse voice in the queue
suggested, “an’ then we’ll all walk
home”....
He put the half-note and 10s. in silver
on the little counter. “Catamaran,” he
said. No occasion to lose his luck be-
cause he’d been robbed and ruined.
And Catamaran didn’t come in at
a 11....
Black cat....
Seven shillings.
The second race flew past, and the
third. Tom had no interest in them. And
this was a foolish place, dreary and deso-
late, full of hungry monkey-men playing
their luck, leaning on some fool of a
thing like a damn black cat. Or some-
thing. He might have been comfortably
at home chatting to father instead of
drifting about here with 7s. in his pocket.
Bill Knotson! Bill’s fat face beamed
at him and nodded, and the day suddenly
acquired a character again. Bill owed
him a quid ; not that that mattered—but
Bill was good for a fiver any time
He hurried across to him.
“Well, Tom, how’s the boy?” Bill’s
face was all curves of delighted greeting.
“I didn’t know you went in for this
game”
“I don’t as a rule,” Tom told him. “I
say, Bill, lend me a fiver, will you?”
Bill’s massive face abruptly lost its
animated curves, was stark and bleak
in a moment. “I’m sorry, Tom, old man,”
he said coldly. “I can’t.”
“Can’t?” Tom was amazed. “Why?
Are you broke?”
“Of course I’m not broke,” Bill pro-
tested irritably. “But it’s no good mak-
ing a rule if you don’t keep to”——
“Will you cash me a cheque?”
“I’m sorry.” Bill turned away. “That’s
part of the rule, Tom, old man.”
This was incredible. Old Fatty
Bill “Well, will you pay me the quid
you owe me?”
Bill turned back. “Yes, I’ll do that,”
he agreed. “With pleasure.” He
separated the note from a thick roll and
handed it to Tom. “There you are, old
man,” he said generously. “You under-
stand that I”
“The pleasure’s mine, Knotson,” Tom
interrupted. “Good day.”
Well, if that wasn’t the damnedest
thing.... Tom stared across the track.
Billy Knotson, that he’d kicked about
with in the old days, known all his
life.... A mate of his... .
That black cat was working hard. Up
to now he was down sixteen quid and
a lifelong friend.
A husky voice beside him roused him.
“Do you know anything for this race?”
it asked.
“I don’t know anything for any race,”
Tom answered as drearily. “Why?”
“Because Vanessa’s good. And she’s
a rank outsider—you’ll get a long price.
But you’ll have to jump to get the cash
on ; they’re lining up”
Damn Bill Knotson and the rest of
it. He’d got Bill’s quid and he was only
here for one purpose. He nipped across
to the tote— —
But the bell rang. v Gne window
slammed down
. “You’JL never do it, Dig,” a heavy man
with a canvas bag on his stomach warned
him. “Play yer . nag with me. What’s
yer fancy?”
•Tom paused in mid-flight. All the win-
dows were slamming. “Vanessa,” he
said.
The heavy man laughed. “Give yer
35’5,” he said. “An’ that’s more than the
tote’ll pay.”
Tom gave him the pound and took his
ticket. Thirty-five to one —it was a good
price, as the burnt-up little monkey at the
rails had said
The mighty voice of the something-
for-nothingers rose in thunder. Other
little monkey-men sitting on the heads
of horses flashed by in a ribbon of parti-
colored light. “Kara! Kara!” the voice
yelled, and died away.
“All set! All set!” It rose again in
tumult, and growled and muttered away
to a heavy waiting silence.
Presently it tore up into the sky in a
wild crash of amazement. “Vanessa!
V anessa! V anessa! ”
This rolled away to Maroubra and
the open sea. The numbers went up
Well, that was that. The black cat
had not failed him. Thirty-six quid! It
wiped out that swine in the tram.... The
day took on something of its own gleam-
ing loveliness again. Of course a black
cat was a You only had to
stay with it —36 quid he collected now
and went home.
He came to the place where the bookie
had been. But he was not now.
Only a growing group of muttering
men, their faces dark with rage, was
here.
“Welshed, by God!” one stormed in a
high cracked voice.
Tom put his ticket back in his pocket
and turned away.
It was enough.
At the gate of home he kicked a black
cat out of -his - way and strode up the
path. If Mabel thought she was going
to put over any cross-examination she
was
But Mabel seemed to be in hysterics.
“What’s up?” he said to the sobbing
mass on the chesterfield.
“He’s gone!” she wailed. “Gone!”
“Who’s gone?”
: “Father, you great booby!” she
stormed at him. “That nasty, selfish,
self-opiniated, domineering old man —
he’s; gone! Now do you understand?”
“Er—yes.”' Tom fiddled with his hat.
“Why?” he asked.
Mabel submerged again. “Married!”
she cried through a torrent of tears.
“Married! And my chicks can starve in
the gutter for all he cares! ” She sat
up, glared at Tom. “Mind you, I always
said he was a thoroughly selfish old man.
The way I’ve waited on him—read that! ”
She thrust a telegram at Tom.
Married to-day Sydney. Honeymoon
Brisbane. Writing. Love to all. — Father.
“I can’t bear it! ” She overflowed
again. “I can’t.... I’m going to Myrtle’s
for the week-end. She’ll give me some
sympathy, some comfort”....
“Myrtle’s?”
She glared at him again. “I suppose
I can go to my only sister for a little
comfort when my life is lying in ribbons
’round my feet, can’t I?”
- “Why—er—yes, of course”....
“I should hope so. There’s the taxi
now —if you’d been five minutes later
you’d have found me gone”....
The house being at last quiet again,
Tom rang up Jim Hyde, who promised
to come round for a yarn. Tom nipped
down to the pub and was just in time.
Coming home again he found the Des-
mond boy at the gate.
“Letter for you, Mr. Baxter,” the Des-
mond boy said. “Mr. Stanton told me
to give it to you. But only when you
were alone, he said.”
“Thank you, Syd”....
My dear Tom, —
As you will have learned from my wire
I was married to-day. The fact is (you
won’t mind my mentioning this, I hope )
J couldn’t stand any more of Mabel. You
and I — well, Mabel is rather a pill, you
know, if you’ll excuse me. So I got mar-
ried. I am hoping that the enclosed —
as between you and me —will help to
alleviate your pain at my departure. We
'shall be back from our honeymoon at
the end of the month. Till then, with all
good wishes — Sincerely, Father.
' P.S. —Tell Mabel that she needn’t
worry about the children. They are both
comfortably represented in my will in its
necessarily altered form.
The “enclosed” was a cheque for a
hundred pounds....
About midnight Tom burst into tears
and knocked his glass over.
“Jim,” he sobbed. “I’m ashamed o’
you, but I’m more ashamed o’ myself.
Tha’ poor little creature.... Here we
are sitting in the midst o’ luxury,
s’rounded by all the comforts”....
“Quite,” Jim agreed. “Disgraceful.
Why?”
“Don’ interrupt. While my bes’ friend,
the bes’ friend a man ever had, is out
there in the snow—prob’ly with a child
in her arms —starving” Tom lurched
out of his chair and grabbed Jim. “C’m’
on,” he said. “We’ll fetch her in—gotter
come in”
In the end they reached the front door.
“Puss, puss,” Tom called. “Puss
puss”....


Music Hath Charms.
BY E. V. TIMMS.
ONSIDER,” said Mr. Hepple-
C bloom to Mr. Kass.
Mr. Hepplebloom’s tone was un-
usually didactic. In his new puce-colored
suit, gleaming patent-leather shoes and a
magenta-and-purple tie, he sat at his
table in the Cafe Melange polishing his
pince-nez with a saffron handkerchief.
The afternoon traffic in Pitt-street
roared on a louder note when the glass
door opened to admit a customer. Peter
Kass heaved his huge bulk down from
the stool behind the cash register and
served the man; a shillingsworth of
prawns. Then he addressed pointed and
terse remarks to his little friend.
“Exodus Barrenhead Hepplebloom,
you’re mad,” he said judicially. “Sing-
ing! And, not satisfied with makin’ a
fool of yourself, you want to drag me in.”
Mr. Hepplebloom put the polished
lenses firmly on his nose.
“Peter,” he said gently, “I have always
maintained that you have a voice. A
baritone. With a little training”
Mr. Kass’s deep laugh went rolling
through the cafe. His fat quivered as
he resumed his seat, and it looked for
the moment as though his skin-tight
brown suit would burst.
“Heppy, you’ve been drinkin’.”
Mr. Hepplebloom denied it.
The physical comparison between the
two men was striking. Mr. Hepplebloom
was pale-eyed, pale-featured, weighing
seven stone-odd at his best, and standing
fully five feet in his patent-leather shoes.
His countenance was that of a man given
to long hours of meditation on subjects
philosophic and profound. Mr. Kass
weighed nearly eighteen stone, had a
close-cropped, bullet-shaped head, and
twinkling little black eyes in a round, em-
purpled face. He was given neither to
long hours of intense thought nor to any
consideration of matters cultural: he was
a cafe proprietor who made money.
Mr. Hepplebloom could, and did, dis-
course authoritatively on the sculpture
of Praxiteles. Mr. Kass could, and did,
fry a John Dory to perfection. As both
matters have come to be regarded as
Greek art, it will be seen that they had
much in common.
But singing!
“Why not?” murmured Mr. Hepple-
bloom patiently. He ignored the gibe.
“Madame says I’m a tenor”
Mr. Kass sneered. “They all see you
cornin’, Heppy —all except me.”
“Nonsense, Peter.” Mr. Hepplebloom
rose and walked towards the cash regis-
ter. “Come along with me this after-
noon. I think you will be astonished.”
Mr. Kass grinned.
“You reckon I have a voice—that I’ll
make a singer?”
“I firmly believe it.”
“Humph! Well maybe I could
warble a bit.”
Mr. Hepplebloom smiled.
‘Leave the cafe to Joe and come with
me to Madame’s studio. Let her test
you.”
Mr. Kass hesitated.
“What does she do?” he demanded.
“She will listen while you sing a few
notes, and then she will advise you. She
was enthusiastic about my voice. The
moment she placed her hands on my
stomach”
“On your what ?” gasped Mr. Kass.
“Now don’t be a fool, Peter. On my
waistcoat, of course. A matter of test-
ing the expansion of the abdominal walls
for breathing purposes”
“I’ll come,” said Mr. Kass emphatic-
ally. “Maybe I have got a voice.”
He shouted for his henchman Joe, and
presently the two friends were walking
quickly along Pitt-street. A turn to the
right, another to the left, again to the
right, and then they walked into a lane
flanked by tall buildings.
“In here,” panted Mr. Hepplebloom.
Together they entered the lift. The
attendant, a one-legged man with hard,
piercing eyes, stared dubiously at Mr.
Kass. Mr. Kass flushed.
“Go ahead,” he snapped. “I won’t
break the thing.”
“Y’ never know,” the liftman muttered.
“ ’Ad a feller like you on the troopship.
The minute he came up the side the
blasted thing turned turtle”
“You don’t say so?” sneered Mr. Kass.
“I do say so,” sneered the liftman. He
gave the handle a jerk.
“Fifth floor,” said Mr. Hepplebloom
importantly. “Madame Duplessis in her
studio?”
The man nodded, his eyes still upon
Mr. Kass. Mr. Kass couldn’t stand it
any longer.
“Anything wrong with me?” he
growled.
The man stopped the lift and opened
the doors. “Your best friends won’t tell
you,” he muttered; and the lift shot
down.
“I’d like to know just what that feller
meant,” Mr. Kass grunted.
The corridor was long, and at intervals
along it were many green baize doors.
The air throbbed with weird sound. Ooz-
ing through the baize doors were the
agonised fragments of many human
voices, all distinct yet all blending into
an hysterical symphony of spasmodic
vocal effort. Somewhere a soprano was
zooming up and down the scale. In
another room a tenor was fighting to hold
a top-note, but it got away from him
and left him coughing. Farther down,
the keyboard of a piano suggested that
the keys were being trodden down by
a troupe of inebriated frogs. Bellowing
baritone and booming bass fought a
furious duel in adjoining rooms.
“Sounds like the home of the d.ts.,”
muttered Mr. Kass.
Mr. Hepplebloom affected not to hear.
He pointed to a seat opposite the lift-
well.
“Let us sit down, Peter. Door number
nine is closed.”
“Right; but where’s Frenchy?”
“Don’t say ‘Frenchy,’ Peter,” protested
Mr. Hepplebloom. “She is Madame
Duplessis, a charming woman.”
Mr. Kass sat down.
“Well ain’t she French?” he asked.
“She is French. Her father was a
French count”
Mr. Kass waved his hand. “All right
—I know the rest.”
Mr. Hepplebloom glared at his fat
friend.
Mr. Kass grinned. “Oh, I’ll behave,”
he muttered. “How long does this busi-
ness take to learn?”
“About ten years.”
“Hell,” said Mr. Kass thoughtfully.
They were both astonished at the con-
duct of the liftman. He placed his crutch
under his arm and hopped quickly along
the corridor. A door had opened; a
young woman had come out.
“You get out of ’ere,” he said to the
girl. “Ain’t you got no sense, tryin’ to
sell mothballs to musicians?”
“You’re right,” retorted the girl. “I’ll
go, but the next time I come I’ll bring
chloroform. Jus’ listen to that one —
blip, blip, blip, blip, blip—jus’ like he’d
cut his silly throat.”
“ ’Op it,” said the liftman. “You ain’t
got no ear for music.”
The door of room No. 9 opened. An
elderly man came out. A pretty woman
in the middle thirties smiled at the man as
he lifted her hand to his lips and kissed
it. Mr. Kass stared. Mr. Hepplebloom
heard his friend breathe quickly as he
boomed:
“Is that Frenchy? What a woman!”
Mr. Hepplebloom shivered.
“Hush, Peter,” he said sternly. “That
lady is my friend, Madame Duplessis.
Don’t shout like that, Peter. Ah, she
sees me. Come along”
The elderly man passed them with eyes
staring and empty. Mr. Kass chuckled.
“He’s fair dazed, the old bloke. Shake
it up, Heppy”
Mr. Hepplebloom smiled happily as he
also kissed Madame’s hand. She looked
at Mr. Kass and smiled. Mr. Kass
looked at her scarlet lips and glowing
dark eyes and he also smiled.
“Ah Monsieur Applebloosom
you have brought your friend? How
ver’ nice!”
Mr. Kass’s bow was a failure, naturally,
but he took Madame’s hand and pressed
it eagerly to his fat lips.
“Pleased to meet you.”
Mr. Hepplebloom coughed.
“Ahem! Madame, permit me to in-
troduce Mr. Kass to you. He would be
honored if you would test his voice.”
Madame looked closely at Mr. Kass.
He did not know that she had heard his
vociferous approval of her.
“But, of course, Monsieur Apple-
bloosom” —
“Hepplebloom, Madame,” corrected
the little man gently.
“Oui. I will remember. Please to come
in, Monsieur Mass”
“Kass!” said Peter abruptly.
“Oui. Yes. Kass.”
The padded door closed behind them.
Mr. Kass saw that the room was
furnished with a piano, a stool, a small
table and two stiff chairs. Mr. Hepple-
bloom placed his hat on the table. Mr.
Kass also placed his hat on the table,
staring at Madame the while. He
approved of her quite openly. Fine,
handsome woman, he told himself. She
smiled at him.
“You sing, Monsieur Mass”
“Kass!”
“Pardon. Kass. You sing?”
“I make a noise.”
“We shall hear, Monsieur Mass”
“Kass! Kass is the name.”
“But, of course. How ver’ stupid of
me. Now please to open the mouth so
that I may look in.”
Mr. Kass grinned.
“But I ain’t sick.”
“Seek?” echoed Madame with a laugh.
“No, no. Non! I wish to test your
larynx and observe the movement of
your epiglottis. Oui! Presently I will
test your pharynx”
Mr. Kass glanced at his friend.
“Don’t be an idiot, Peter,” said the
little man coldly. “Everything is all
right.”
Madame looked perplexed.
“All right? All right? But I do not
understand”
“Er—my friend is not familiar with
the technical terms, Madame.”
“Oh I see. But, of course. Now
I will strike this note so! There it is.
Now sing it, Monsieur Mass. Sing
‘Hah.’ ”
Mr. Kass blinked stupidly, but before
the note died away he gave a bellow.
“Hah-h-h-h-h!”
“Again, please”
“Hah-h-h-h-h-h!”
The door swung open. The liftman
poked his head round it. Madame stared
at him.
“Well?” she snapped.
“Nuthin’. Just thought someone was
crook”
“Crook, eh?” sneered Mr. Kass.
“Terrible,” sneered the liftman.
“Allez-vous-en !” said Madame angrily.
“Wee, wee,” said the liftman. “But I
once ’eard a ’Un scream like that when
he got a bayonet in the”
“Please to go,” said Madame coldly.
“A llez-vous”
“Wee, wee,” said the liftman.
The door closed. Madame smiled at
Mr. Kass.
“He is ver’ good, but he is in love with
me. I know it. Yes, Monsieur Mass,
some day you will sing. But there is the
breathing. You must learn to keep
down the shoulders... .so. Watch me”
Madame took a deep breath and then
said:
“But you are nbt observing me, Mon-
sieur Mass”
Mr. Kass blinked.
Mr. Hepplebloom interposed.
“He does not yet understand, Madame.
He thinks it is rude to stare at a lady at —
er —such moments.”
“But how considerate,” said Madame,
flashing Mr. Kass a wonderful smile. “But
here, Monsieur Mass, I am the teacher.
Oui! You are the pupil. Yes. But now
to take a proper breath... .so. Down
with the shoulders and breathe in.
I will place my hands... .just there. No,
no! You must not wriggle. Please to
be still”
“I can’t,” gasped Mr. Kass. “You’re
ticklin’ me.”
“Ticklin’? Ticklin’? Ido not”
“Ha! Ha! Ha! Can’t stand it just
yet. But try it again”
“Peter,” said Mr. Hepplebloom
severely. “Do be serious. Watch me”
Mr. Kass did so. Mr. Hepplebloom
breathed in slowly. His narrow abdomen
began to swell and swell and swell. Mr.
Kass stared and then blinked.
“For God’s sake, Heppy,” he mut-
tered. “You’ll have a blow-out in that
front tyre”
The air escaped from Mr. Hepplebloom
with a hiss.
“Idiot,” he panted.
“Does Monsieur Mass think that I also
will have a blow-out in the front tyre?”
purred Madame gently.
Mr. Kass shook his head. He never
was one to wound the feelings of the sex.
“No chance. You’re all right, lady,
but Heppy ain’t built for it”
“Madame,” said Mr. Hepplebloom
quickly. “Perhaps if I sing for my
friend”
Madame seated herself at the piano.
“You will sing ‘Excelsior’?” she mur-
mured.
“That will do admirably,” said Mr.
Hepplebloom gravely. He turned to
Peter Kass. “Please listen carefully,
Peter, and above all watch the breathing.”
He began to sing. Mr. Kass listened.
Then he grinned. And the longer he
listened the wider he grinned. Mr.
Hepplebloom’s stomach was flapping to
and fro like the front of a bellows gone
berserk. His thin, reedy voice was strug-
gling through village and over mountains
heroically.
“Ex.... ce1.... 5i.... or ! Ex.... cel
si”
Up and up for the top-note.
“Gosh!” gasped Mr. Kass. “He can’t
reach it.”
“Si or!” panted Mr. Hepplebloom
triumphantly.
The door opened. The liftman poked
his head round its edge.
“Yes?” said Madame in a resigned
tone.
“0h... .nuthin’,” said the man.
The door closed again.
“Say!” barked Mr. Kass. “What is
that feller? A keeper?”
Madame sighed.
“He is ver’ kind, really,” she mur-
mured. “But he fears I may meet with
some assault as it were. But now
to sing. The note again, Monsieur
Mass”
“Kass! But what do you mean....
assault?”
Madame shrugged.
“You would not know. But singers
are so temperamental. One moment
hope, the next despair. One minute a
kiss, the next a blow. It is the soul,
Monsieur Mass”
“Kass. Humph! Seems as if you’ve
got to learn more than your notes.”
“Please to sing the note again, Mon-
sieur Kass.”
He did so, but it was not a success.
The note ended on a gargle. The door
opened again.
“You want tea, Madame?” inquired
the liftman.
“Oui! But, of course,” said Madame.
“For them, too?”
“Yes, yes! And quickly, please”
The man’s peculiar eyes fastened them-
selves on Mr. Kass.
“I seen a feller like ’im blown to bits
at Messines,” he muttered. “It was
me as threw the bomb. There was a
mess” He came a little way into the
room, his fierce, wild eyes darting from
one to the other. “It was like this
’ere” He placed his crutch to his
shoulder as though aiming a rifle. “I
was shootin’ like ’ell, an’ then I slung
the rifle straight at a ’Un who was makin’
for me. The pin went right through ’im.
Another come at me. I gave him a wal-
lop in the belly with me right foot
like this”....
The liftman, carried away by his
vivid memories, attempted to stand on
the leg that was not there and at the
same time kick with the one that was.
Naturally, he collapsed.
“He’s barmy,” said Mr. Kass.
“Barmy y’self, mug,” snarled the lift-
man.
They lifted him to his foot and he
went away again. Mr. Kass turned to
Madame and spoke insinuatingly.
“Say, missus, what about a little dinner
t’night?”
Madame’s dark eyes flickered.
“Monsieur Mass....is a leetle mis-
taken,” she murmured.
“Nothin’ doin’?”
“Monsieur Mass .... is ver’ much mis-
taken,” Madame said gently.
Mr. Kass showed his disappointment.
“Aw, we 11”....
Mr. Hepplebloom appeared to be most
uncomfortable.
“And that will be five guineas, Mon-
sieur Mass,” said Madame very softly.
Mr. Kass nearly dropped his hat.
“Did you say something would be five
guineas?” he asked.
Madame smiled at him.
“But, yes. Your first lesson. For be-
ginners such as you I charge five
guineas. It is ver’ cheap.”
Mr. Kass slammed his hat on his head.
“Cheap! ”he said. “I ain’t payin’ any
five guineas to be taught how to swell
up like a frog. Nothin’ doin’.”
Madame’s expression froze. Hard
little lights danced in her black eyes.
“Must I understand you refuse to
pay, Monsieur Mass?”
“Kass! I don’t mind doin’ the tea;
but five guineas—no, ma’am!”
Mr. Hepplebloom coughed apologetic-
ally and said:
“Madame”
But he got no further. Madame turned
on him quickly.
“Non! I will not listen. To bring
such a man here to insult me is an
insult! Yes. Please to depart! I have
been robbed. Insulted. Humiliated. Zut! ”
From her bosom she undid an enor-
mous brooch. With the long pin held
towards Mr. Kass she came slowly for-
ward. Mr. Kass slowly retreated. So
did Mr. Hepplebloom. Mr. Kass was
goggle-eyed with fright.
“F-f-for God’s s-s-sake,” he chattered.
“She wants to s-s-stick me with that
pin ah! Oh! Ow!”
He was right. She did want to stick
him with the pin; and she did. Again
she jabbed viciously. Mr. Hepplebloom,
pale and quivering, reeled against a wall
as a low, deep note broke from Mr.
Kass’s lips. And at the sound of it
Madame’s hand, which had been poised
for a third onslaught, remained in mid-
air. Slowly the terrible expression on her
face changed to one of rapture. She was
listening with closed eyes.
“But Monsieur Mass,” she whis-
pered. “That is the note. Again, please.
It was marvellous the tone, the
pitch, the soul in it”
But when Madame opened her eyes
Mr. Hepplebloom and Mr. Kass were
gone. Madame sighed, then she smiled,
then she positively giggled.
“‘ls that Frenchy?’” she mocked.
“ ‘What a woman!’ Ha! Ha! Ha! Adieu
Messieurs Mass and Applebloosom”....


Wool Yarns No.
1
Threads
of Destiny
THREADS of Destiny. . . .Spun, not from Clothe’s
distaff, but from the bobbins at Yarra Falls Mills
on to the warp beams. Threads of Destiny. .. .
Spun from the finest wool that Australia produces,
destined to be woven into Twills, Fancy Worsted
Suitings, Venetians, Baratheas, Covert Coatings, Wool
Crepes, Wool Georgettes. . . .
Wool... The Warp of Australia’s Desi iny
In woven cloth, the warp threads have to bear the
greatest strain. Across and through them, the weft
threads weave the finished pattern of the material.
Wool—as Australia’s great primary industry, carry-
ing Australia on the sheep’s back—is the warp of
her national life. Wool, as Australia’s great and
growing secondary industry, is a weft thread weaving
the pattern of economic life. Threads of a nation’s
destiny, working towards n finished design.
Yarra Falls takes the wool as it comes from the
sheep’s back. 18,000 bales annually. . . .£5OOO worth
every week. . . .the warp on which Australia is
weaving the pattern of her growing industrialism.
Scouring, carding, spinning, weaving, dyeing. .. .
every step of the cloth-maker’s art. . . .is followed
through, at Yarra Falls Mills, until the finished cloth
of quality, design and colour equal to the world’s
best—is despatched, ready t'o clothe you.
What Yarra Falls means to Australia
Yarra Falls the greatest textile mills in the Southern
Hemisphere is a factor in the development of Aus-
tralia in her march towards maturity as a great,
self-contained nation. Since the wool-combing de-
partment was established at Abbotsford, Victoria, 14
:*■
I
m
m ■
*1
m
Jf
*l-
- Warps.
/r
•m
Weaving in the Middle Ages.
years ago, that development has called for expansion
at Yarra Falls. And to-day, in addition to the comb-
ing and spinning of wool into yarn—2,soo,ooolb.
per annum—Yarra Falls is also weaving fabrics
1,750,000 yards annually. The mills have grown to
a floor space of eight acres. . . .to a capital value
of over £800,000.... to a pay-roll registering 1250
names. And that means something to Australia.
AND TO YOU
To you, Madam, and you, Sir, Yarra Falls means
the result of your growing demand for Australian
woollen yarns, Australian woven fabrics. It is a
derrtand based on the known quality of the products;
and demand, and quality, have made possible the
growth of a great Australian secondary industry,
have woven a pattern across the warp of Australia's
national and economic life.
Specify YARRA FALLS Materials
Twills and Fancy Worsteds. . . .Venetians. . . .Bara-
theas. . . .Covert Coatings. . . .Wool Crepes. . . .Wool
Georgettes and other dress materials. 700 solid
shades, and 4070 tonings in woollen yarn5....440
shades in piece-dyed fabrics....
Threads of a Nation’s Destiny. Weave yours! And
when ordering your next Suiting or Dress Material,
specify “YARRA FALLS.”
YARRA FALLS
Limited
Worsted, Spinning and Weaving Mills,
ABBOTSFORD, N 9, VICTORIA.
Busting' Christmas.
BY HAROLD MERCER.
U D UST Christmas!” said Fullbags
|j explosively.
He had been wakened by the
blare of a child’s trumpet and had fallen
over some toys on the way to the bath
—both advance guards of the army he
would be expected to buy for Christ-
mas. His wife had inopportunely put in
a word about the extra expenses of the
festivity; when he had sought to find
out why an important letter he had
wished to dispatch had not been finished
he had found his typist gurgling over
some purchases made by the girl ledger-
keeper to send to distant friends. And
when, in the bar, the talk turned to
Christmas, a memory of all his wrongs
had come to him.
“By jingo, that’s an idea,” said Smart.
“ ‘Bust Christmas’—there’s a slogan for
you! Slogan of the Anti-Christmas
League.”
Fullbags stared at him in a bovine
manner. Smart was one of those inter-
lopers who somehow attach themselves
to groups in hotels; always dapper,
rather entertaining; a traveller or some-
thing like that.
“We'all dislike Christmas —it’s a nuis-
ance. We’ve got to pretend to like it
because it’s a tradition fastened on us ;
and, cursing the necessity, we throw
away money we really can’t afford or
could put to better use. Look at me —
business at a standstill when December
starts, yet I’ve got to find money for
geese and toys and things. Look at
Cummins here —trade finished, and got
to pay his hands for the holidays they
don’t work.”
“Too right!” said Cummins heartily.
“It’s a cow.”
“Well, what about the Anti-Christmas
League? There’s thousands of people
like us. Let’s form the League ; once
you start it members will pour in.”
“What for? What can it do?” de-
manded Thorrold.
“Do? It can start propaganda for
the limitation of expense at Christmas.
It will be a long fight, of course ; but
there will be immediate benefits to mem-
bers. Look at it this way. The wife asks
for money to buy a present for your
mother-in-law. Do you give it? No!
You show your badge of the Anti-Christ-
mas League and stand on principle. You
can’t violate a principle.”
“By the Lord, that’s useful!” cried
Carruthers enthusiastically. “Come on,
boys, have another.”
The filling of the glasses did not inter-
fere with Smart’s oratory. He mesmer-
ised them. He explained the procedure,
and got in some telling points.
“We’ll need entrance forms and receipt
books. Cummins here, as a printer, can
do those; I’ll draft them straightway.
Full bags can be president, pro tern., till
we get a full meeting ; that means he’ll
be president for good.”
Fullbags had always wanted, vaguely,
to be president of something or another,
but he had had no idea of how to go
about it. Here he was achieving the
dignity without effort.
He was the first to hand out the half-
crown which Smart demanded as an
initiation fee ; Cummins followed ; and,
in all, Smart collected seven half-crowns
(not including his own, which was pre-
sumably in his pocket) and bought drinks.
Even the publican, who ran (very profit-
ably) a Christmas club, became a mem-
ber when he saw ’the paragraph Smart
had drafted. Meetings in his hotel would
bring money.
So the world was acquainted next day
with the news that “at a largely attended
meeting at Bung’s Hotel” an Anti-Christ-
mas League had been formed and had
carried resolutions deploring the waste-
ful extravagance of the festive season,
and others on the same lines.
It created a sensation. Even the staid-
est journal in the city was forced to make
a feature of the opinions and letters of
people who rushed into the controversy.
There were parsons who pointed out that
the real meaning of Christmas had been
lost in an orgy of debauch ; organisers
of charitable funds (on substantial com-
mission) who drew attention to the way
money could be .spent at Christmas with-
out being wasted ; others again who saw
the opportunity to fling their pet hobby
into prominence—the inattention of the
Post Office, the inconveniences of the
railways, and the profiteering of board-
ing-houses.
On the other hand there were plenty of
people who, as one of them put it, were
“shocked and startled” at the assault on
tradition, and more who talked about the
importance of the festival to Trade. Of
course Russia was dragged in—and, for
that matter, the tariff.
Out of it emerged Smart, who naturally
did not neglect the opportunity of reply,
a suddenly big figure, the Man Who
Hated Christmas. “Who is this Smart?”
people asked.
Smart flashed about town with a bundle
of nomination forms and a receipt book ;
and (work being slack in Cummins’s
printery) he wrote his letters on station-
ery headed “The Anti-Christmas
League.” His energy was enormous and
he actually raked in many members. He
found the idea that they could make the
refusal of a present they did not wish to
give a matter of principle was the appeal
to work with potential members. Such
an excuse was cheap at half a crown —
and the additional shilling for a badge,
upon which he was getting busy.
“Stickers” appeared mysteriously at
various places about the city proclaiming
the slogan “Bust Christmas.” Members
felt that they were getting value for
their money.
Fullbags, however, found that his pre-
sidential position had disadvantages. His
wife’s caustic remarks for one thing;
but he did not mention that.
“A lot of people have been ringing me
up,” he said —“people I do business with.
They say the Christmas trade is important
to them; and they’re annoyed.”
“We’ve got to fight, of course,” said
Smart enthusiastically. There is always
something stimulating about a remark
like that, made with elan, especially to
people who can feel that they share the
danger without the possibility of being
hit —a reason that makes wars popular
at home. “Why, I was thrown down-
stairs to-day!”
“You don’t say so! Who feels as badly
on the subject as that?” asked Cummins.
“It was a Jew,” laughed Smart. “1
should have realised that he does a big
trade in Christmas presents.”
But he saw that Fullbags was uncom-
fortable ; it suited his book to some ex-
tent.
“How about you being patron ; then
we need not use your name in reports?
I have a friend here —Mr. Chalmers,
gentlemen—-who is anxious to be in the
fighting line, if that would suit.”
Chalmers introduced a new element,
not generally liked by the others. The
attitude to Christmas of Fullbags and his
friends was a genial annoyance, very
much the outcome of the human delight
in having something to grumble at; that
of Chalmers was a splenetic hatred. He
was one of those who had come to
Smart eagerly, glad of the opportunity
for an attack on the institution they
detested.
“In my opinion,” he declared, “any
member of the League who gives a
Christmas present, as much as a sixpenny
toy, is a traitor. He should be expelled.”
An awkward silence fell on the gather-
ing. “Expelled” is an ugly word. The
lunacy authorities have a record of an
asylum inmate whose frequent escapes
made him a nuisance, until one of the
doctors had a brain-wave. He told the
offender that if he escaped again he
would be expelled; and there was no
further trouble. Many people not certi-
fied are like that.
Chalmers introduced venom into the
movement. This, members did not relish.
Although they had been caught by
Smart’s enthusiasm and oratory the
affair was rather a joke to many of them,
useful in the opportunity it gave to set
up principle against inopportune de-
mands. Even meetings of the com-
mittee —and Chalmers put in the out-
rageous suggestion that the bar of a
hotel was no place to hold meetings, but
was voted down —were on the lines of
a pleasant excuse for a few social drinks.
A.C.Ls. were sometimes astonished to
discover, by reports in the papers, that
they had been passing resolutions when
they thought they had been merely drink-
ing and discussing matters informally, f
mean, members of the committee and a
few other ordinaries who met in Bung’s
hotel. The majority from whom Smart
collected half-crowns knew nothing but (if
they had not forgotten the payment) what
appeared in the press, and were pleased
at being connected with a sensation of the
time.
When Chalmers talked seriously of ex-
pulsions the committee felt uncomfort-
able.
Actually it was the trading associations,
alarmed by the propaganda, that kept the
thing alive. They were anxious to explain
themselves. One said that certainly too
much was spent on liquor, money that,
if spent on toys, would bring joy to
countless children. Another declared that
people wasted money on trivialities
destroyed in a day, whereas wine warmed
the spirit of goodfellowship that should
prevail. Smart had vaguely threatened a
big anti-Christmas demonstration, and
they were nervous of the effect it might
have. In fact, they were bluffed by the
noise they helped to create.
(Continued on next page.)


/>£
l
\
-
At your request uie
shall be pleased to
forward illustrated
folder No. 25.
JAVA
SINGAPORE
Peopled by a picturesque race,
highly cultured, gifted in dancing,
music and art —these Eastern won-
derlands of colour and exotic charm
call irresistibly.
Care in choosing your ship and
route will add to the joys of this
holiday trip. The t.s.s. “MARELLA
sails regularly from Australian ports
by way of the Great Barrier Reef,
Thursday Is., Darwin, Sourabaya,
Samarang and Batavia to Singapore.
Comfort, service and cuisine are ex-
cellent.
The whole tour need only occupy
seven weeks, and fares are free of
exchange.
BURNS, PHILP
& CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST. - SYDNEY
TELEPHONE - B 7 90 I
313 Collins St., Melbourne; 128 Adelaide St., Brisbane; and at Adelaide, Townsville, etc.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE BANK offers customers very complete facilities for the transaction of Aus-
tralasian or Overseas Banking Business. It issues Travellers’ Letters of Credit
available in any banking town in the world —the safest way of taking money on a
journey. It establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable. It negotiates
and collects Bills of Exchange. It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or
telegraph. It transacts all classes of General Banking and Exchange Business.
The Manager of any Branch will gladly explain these facilities and place at
customers’ disposal the information on current trading and financial conditions
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
CAPITAL PAID-UP
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE CAPITAL
AUTHORISED CAPITAL—£I2,OOO,OOO.
£4,739,012 10 0
4,300,000 0 0
4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
General Manager: C. DARYALL.
LONDON OFFICE: 18 Birehin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank. Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout Queensland, New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia; and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Interest allowed at current rates on FIXED DEPOSITS for small
or large sums. Interest may be drawn half-yearly if desired.
Cable Address: “THERMOSTAT,” Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and London.
Plum Razor Guardi
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin,, fin. and Jin. blades.
Lasts a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/6 each, post free.
15he PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle .21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case—
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 1407-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two widths
—ftin. and Jin.
Each razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
ƒ
Now in its 92nd Year
“The Examiner” is still the trusted Friend of the Family in
Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in Tasmania,
and is the acknowledged Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
, Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. vv. O. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
SHORT WAVE ENTHUSIASTS
Now you have a paper that will cater
for your requirements—conducted on the
technical side by Mr. Don B. Knock. His
expert advice is yours free of cost.
AUSTRALIAN
RADIO NEWS
A Bulletin Publication.
Every Friday - - - - 2d.
They did not know that the bulk of
the members of the committee were
against Smart’s demonstration. Their
own home demonstrations were not very
successful.
The Christmas spirit was in the air.
The streets were full of the sweet smell
of Christmas-bush and gum-leaves, of
pleasurable excitement, meetings with
old friends, talks of .holidays. Even mem-
bers of the Anti-Christmas League could
not help but mention these.
“Well, good-bye, you chaps,” said
Jones, “One more drink with me, and
I must be off. I’m going on holidays.”
“Holidays?” questioned Chalmers
sharply, not, however, neglecting the fill-
ing of his glass.
“Well,” said Jones, wilting under the
hard, fishy eye a little, “I might as well
go away. There’s no business doing.
Now,” he added, seizing his glass, “I’ll
have to go —wife wants to do some shop-
ping. Happy Christmas, boys!”
Happy Christmas!
“Hey!” shouted the outraged voice of
Chalmers. But Jones had gone.
“We’ll wipe him out!” fumed
Chalmers. “Summon him to a special
meeting when he returns. We’ll expel
him.”
Hard man, Chalmers! He made the
members ill at ease. A man scarcely
liked being seen in the vicinity of a toy-
shop lest Chalmers should hear of it and
grow suspicious.
And then came the startling news that
Fullbags had given a. ten-guinea subscrip-
tion to a church Happiness Fund. A
newspaper had ferreted the item out,
and made a feature of it.
“The parson visited me and argued,”
he said when the inevitable carpeting
came. “Of course, I’m not against giving
happiness. I believe in happiness. What
I’m against is the waste and excess and
all the bother”
“It was asked,” said Chalmers icily,
“on account of Christmas. You have no
right”
“Damn it, I’ll do as I like with my
own money!” said Fullbags heatedly.
“I’m no slave. Go your hardest. I’ll buy
a drink, and then I’m off.”
He was off; and Cummins went with
him.
Fullbags felt better for his revolt; it
gave him a clearer conscience in keep-
ing the appointment with his wife to help
choose the toys. The kids were not going
without their toys —not for twenty
Anti-Christmas Leagues. He’d speed to
that appointment directly he could get
rid of Cummins. He did not like the idea
of revealing a departure from principle
to the printer.
There had been some acrimony before
their departure.
“We’ll deal with you,” Chalmers had
threatened. “Where’s the secretary?
Where’s Smart? He wasn’t here yester-
day. He’s letting the propaganda fall
flat when it should be at its height. It’s
Christmas Eve to-morrow!”
He had become more concerned about
finding Smart than punishing Fullbags
when the latter and Cummins departed.
“Come in and have another drink,”
Cummins said as they passed the next
hotel.
“I’m in a bit of a hurry. Got an
appointment,” said Fullbags.
“Oh, hang the appointment! You can
find time for one. It’s Christmas!” said
Cummins.
Fullbags stared at him incredulously,
and followed. In the bar was Hardy.
With a genial “Hello! ” he put more
money on the counter. “How’s the Anti-
Christmas League?” he asked.
“Secretary’s missing,” said Cummins.
“Oh, I know that,” said Hardy. “I’ve
got a letter from him which I promised
to hand to the president. Resignation.
It’s got a statement of accounts—he
showed it to me. Money all eaten up by
organising expenses, of course.” He
finished with a laugh.
It was a thunderclap.
“I was going along to deliver it, but
I was delayed, buying some stuff for
Christmas.”
“Stuff for Christmas!” exclaimed Full-
bags. “You’re a member of the league,
aren’t you?”
“Oh, I threw in my half-dollar. As
much to help Smart as anything. Like-
able chap, and he’s got a nice family.
His commission cuts out in November,
and I was glad that he’d have a stunt to
help him through December, knowing
he was broke.”
Hardy spoke with careless, genial
laughter. Fullbags choked; but there
was worse to come.
“It’s done more than that. He’s taken
a job with one of the big stores, on a
year’s contract.”
“The traitor!” cried “They
bought him! ”
“Oh, not at all; they may have ad-
mired his organising ability,” laughed
Hardy.
A few minutes later they stood on the
pavement outside, Fullbags still a trifle
upset, Cummins astonished but happy—
he had been paid his printing account —
and Hardy amused at the well-to-do
Fullbags’s indignation. Yet even Full-
bags felt some relief. He had no longer
reason to be ashamed of his own defec-
tion from the cause.
Christmas! It was in the air—some-
thing worth paying for.
“Hey, there goes your secretary! ”
cried Hardy.
He was pointing to a car that was
sweeping by, Smart driving, a radiant
young woman —his wife evidently—
beside him. The back seat was laden
with parcels, topped with Christmas-bush.
The squawk of a goose sounded, too.
“He’s got through December all
right!” laughed Hardy. “Didn’t know
how he was going to do it, he told me —
before the league came. Well, he’s fond
of his kids; he’ll have a happy
Christmas.”
“There go our half-crowns,” com-
mented Cummins.
“The scoundrel! The fraud!” fumed
Fullbags.
Hardy smacked him on the back.
“Don’t feel like that, old chap,” he
said. “Hang it, it’s Christmas!”
Fullbags found himself laughing too,
all malice forgotten. It was Christmas!
Big' Game.
BY H. DRAKE-BROCKMAN.
THERE’S a poster they’ve got out —I
suppose it’s plastered up all over the
place, from Perth to Brisbane-
inviting the townies, in big fat letters
floating over the heads of a couple of
coots in leggin’s an’ topees, to shoot big
game in Central Australia. Spotted it?
First time I did was the other day on
Perth station. Just down for a spell, I
am, and there was I staring at it like an
abo. at the flicks, when up comes a porter
wheeling one of those little barrow things.
“Good day, mate,” says he. “You look
a bit sour. Don’t you fancy the idea of
tourists for your country?”
“My country?” says I. “How’d you
know it’s my country?”
“Oh, I can tell,” says he, winking.
“Just you put a cattleman an’ a sheepman
an’ a cocky an’ a bagman from over
East in a line tergether, an’ it won’t take
me long ter write their tickets fer
’em. But wot’s up with the poster?”
“Well,” I says, “the coves in topees are
all right, I s’pose —though mostly it’s
only the pearlers in Darwin and Broome
that swank it in topees —an’ the leggin’s
’ll do, considering they’re riding in a car,
though I wouldn’t be seen dead in ’em.
Moleskins for me! An’ the niggers are
all right. An’ the camels —well, I’ll pass
them, though every day camels are getting
scarcer since engineers started putting
crossings over the river-beds for motor-
trucks, and aeroplanes just drop down
anywhere handy. They’re all right,” I
tells him, “but what about the sand?”
“Sand?” says the porter.
“Sand,” says I. “That there country
looks like the Arabian Desert. Puts me
in mind of the days when I was a Light
Horseman in Palestine. Sand! Not to
mention flies!”
“Keep yer hair on,” chips in the
porter. “Ain’t there any sand—not to
mention flies —in your North?”
“You betcha life,” says I. “But all
this talk of deserts makes me sick. Coun-
try’s dry, but it’s covered decent with
grass, even if it does look burnt up in
the winter-time. And, believe me, it’ll
carry heaps o’ stock when they think up a
way of saving water, or strike some
underground or something. Desert! Can
you see ’em ever running stock on the
Sahara?”
“That’s all right,” says he soothingly ;
“that’s all right. This here is about Big
Game. D’you mean ter tell me it’s a
frame-up?”
“Frame-up?” says I. “Who says so?
It’s the finest country on God’s earth, and
you’ll get more sport there than in any
tuppeny-ha’penny fox-hunt. Game? I
should say so! Take Lord Torrans now
—he’d make a good poster himself.”
“Who’s he?” scoffs the porter.
“Oh, he’s dinkum. I’ll not bet on the
Torrans, but he’s a lord, all right. Six-
foot three, hawk nose, high forehead,
aristocratic drawl. Many’s the time I’ve
seen him mooch along astride his moke,
o Continued on next page.)


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. By an. Esq. ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq , C.M.O.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory;, Melbourne, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general hanking business
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
SEVEN
PRIZE MEDALS.
f
WORKS: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
These series of Pens
neither scratch nor
spurt.
They glide over the
roughest paper with
the ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your
assorted
Storekeeper for an
Sample Box.
The Public is warned to beware of
imitations of these famous Circular
Pointed Pens.
NEW ZEALAND CRUISES
' 6 »^'
Specially arranged for
those who desire an
ideal Sea Holiday with
the social gaiety of life
aboard a big modern
liner. See New Zealand
at its best in the com-
fort of a C.A. and
Union Royal Mail
liner.
CRUISE TO MILFORD SOUNDS
The luxury liner “MONOWAI” leaves
Sydney on Jan. 2 on a 13 days’ cruise
to Milford Sounds, via Melbourne
and Wellington, returning to Sydney
Jan. 15.
BAY OF ISLAHDS CRUISE
The “MARAMA” leaves Sydney on
Jan. 11 on a delightful cruise to the
beautiful Bay of Islands, via Auckland,
returning to Sydney Jan. 23.
ROUND TRIP RETURN FARES FROM £l9
No Exchange Charges.
Delightful meals...cosy berths.. .wide decks.. .faultless service and every convenience.
Booking Plans, Literature and Full
Details from
UNION S.S. CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
296 Queen Street, Brisbane.
and Union Limes
Handy Hints
for the
Farm
Every effort has been used to make the
book of the greatest value on every kind of
farm. The experienced farmer will know
hundreds of the things in it. It is those he
doesn’t know or has forgotten that will make
it worth pounds to him.
Price, 1/-; by post, 1/2. From the head
office of “The Bulletin,’’ 252 George Street,
Sydney; or from any branch office: 247-249
Collins Street, Melbourne; 239 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane; James Place, Adelaide;
33 Barrack Street, Perth; 14 Panama Street,
Wellington (N.Z.).
OR FROM ANY NEWSAGENT.
Contains over 1,000 practical Hints
from tHe Land pages of
a cigarette dropping out one corner of
his mouth, a gun under his arm and a
twinkle in his eye. No leggin’s and topee
on him! Singlet and khaki pants and
old sundowner —that’s good enough for
Torrans.”
“A lord, too,” says the porter.
“Dinkum lord,” says I. “Often he’ll
cock his hat on side and call up his
tribe of kangaroo dogs and the two kel-
pie sluts he’s got. ‘How’s this,’ he’ll say,
‘for a photo, for the “Field”? Lord Tor-
rans about to leave his seat on a doggin’
expedition.’ Then he’ll jump out of the
saddle and shout drinks all round. ‘And
that’s me last bob, boys,’ he’ll say, ‘until
I get me a few pelts’ Lives on wild-
dog skins, does Torrans.”
“Dingoes! ” grinned the porter. “D’you
call dingoes Big Game?”
I got a bit shirty. “You try to hunt
’em on plain country,” I told him.
“They’ll give you a bit of hurry-up, me
lad. And there’s enough ducks to send
a hunter dotty with joy. Birds! What do
you know about birds? You just wait
till you’ve seen a lagoon at sundown,
so covered in those blue lilies you can’t
see the water, and so smothered over in
a cloud of birds caw-cawing that you
can’t hear yourself think! Or if you’re
after excitement, how about a ’gator or
a buffalo”....
“Buffalo?” he interrupts. “Garn. This
ain’t America.”
“No. It ain’t; and it ain’t Kimberley,
either! You’d get a shock if you saw an
a bo. coming down them steps in his war-
paint, shaking a spear at you. But that’s
not saying I haven’t had plenty after
me, an’ buffaloes, too.”
And then I had to laugh.
Whenever buffaloes crop up, I remem-
ber Bassett.
But just then my train came in. “So
long,” says I. “I’m for Cottesloe and a
swim. Wyndham’s my town, and we
don’t bathe in Cambridge Gulf —color
of mud and full of ’gators—and I’ve not
hit the sea for five years. But if you’re
still leaning on that there barrow when I
get back, I’ll tell you some more about
buffaloes”....
Well, I’d reckoned to spend the journey
down to the beach thinking how good
it would be to ride in on the breakers
and lie on the sand watching the girls—
whatever else there may be in the North
there’s a big shortage of skirts—just laz-
ing round enjoying myself; but some-
how I forgot all about the beach and
started on that buffalo hunt.
I could see Bassett as clear as if he’d
been sitting in the carriage with me.
Young Englishman, Bassett, and well-
liked up North. All of them aren’t, but
he is. One of the engineers fixing river
crossings; a snowy-haired, blue-eyed
youngster. Laughed at the things most
newchums growl about, took a regular
fancy to the life, and fell in love with the
country. But, like most Englishmen, he
was fair barmy on what he called
“huntin’ and shootin’.”
Meself, I never shoot anything for the
fun of it, though I’ve slaughtered more
than one of those lovely white egrets
when I’ve had to get a feed.
Well, one day I fetched up at Pindan
Plains homestead, and we were just set-
tling down to dinner when a great hulla-
baloo outside among the gins let us
know something was up. Holt, the
manager, and I up and out for a look-see.
And there was Bassett, hopping down
from his utility car with a grin on his
face like a split watermelon.
“I’ve got it, you fellahs,” he yelled.
“I’ve got it!”
“Got what?” cried Holt, who spends
as much time nosing round after oil seep-
ages as looking after cattle. “You don’t
mean to tell me you’ve struck it?”
“Struck him all right,” said Bassett,
coming over. “Struck him with half the
shot I used and that was all I had! But
I couldn’t kill the blessed thing. Came
in for some more ammunition. Lend
me your Martini, Holt; this pea-rifle of
mine’s no good when it comes to big
game. Pile in, chaps, we’re for some
first-class sport this time”
“What the hell are you talking about?”
demanded Holt, short-like.
Bassett stared at him like a surprised
child. “My buffalo, of course! ” says he.
I had to laugh. But soon he had us
all properly worked up. He had dreamed
of bagging a buffalo ever since he heard
such animals existed in Kimberley. Now,
although there’s a fair number across
in the Territory, they’re sly, wary fellows,
and not too many come our way. Just
as well, because they wreck the herds.
But I’d had a couple of good hunts
before then, and soon we were yanking
out our guns and rushing back for a
mouthful of tucker.
Holt’s missus was as excited as the
rest of us. She kept on saying how
sorry she felt that there wasn’t room in
the car for her.
“I was rattling along keeping my eyes
skinned for rocks and jump-ups,”
Bassett told us, “but looking out in case
I could spot a turkey, just this side of
Wild Dog Crossing. You know how
thick the foliage is along the river there?
Well, quite suddenly I glanced across and
saw this fellow. A whopper. Gosh —I
was thrilled! I fished up the old gun and
let fly. He charged out into the open.
Wild old man he is, been rooting down
in the river; all mud and fierce-looking.
I speeded up the old ’bus and went after
him across the plain. Bounced about like
a tin can. I hit him next shot and hit
him again. But he went back to the
scrub ; and what with looking after the
truck and the light and shadow among
the trees I didn’t finish him before I did
in all my ammunition. But he’s got a
hideful of shot and seems mighty put
out about it”....
A wounded and savage old-man
buffalo!
We piled into Bassett’s truck and went
off in fine form.
We took one of Holt’s boys with us.
Thought a nigger might come in handy
to track the beast, although Bassett was
certain he had winged him. And it was
just as well we did. We had to abandon
the truck and stalk that buffalo through
the thick undergrowth beside the river,
trees and pandanus all tangled up in
creepers and stuff like a jungle. The
beast had got through somehow, looking
for a safe spot the way wounded animals
do.
The shadows started to stretch out;
and we were still looking. All getting
hot and thirsty and a bit strained, watch-
ful in case he should charge suddenly
from the scrub, and in case we didn’t
tread on a log and wake up to find a
’gator chewing us.
“Close up now, boss,” muttered the
boy suddenly.
I spotted him first. A pair of wicked
horns and one red eye was all I could
see. I yelled to Bassett on my right.
How the lad smiled! Might just have
heard he’d won first prize in Tatt.’s. He
crept over, and cocked Holt’s Martini,
but the moment he pulled the trigger the
brute ducked.
Then he came for us.
The boy yelled and ran. Holt let fly,
cursing. Whose shot did for him I could
never be certain, but one got him in the
nick of time and he pitched forward,
too darned close for my liking.
“Rotten luck! ” murmured Bassett,
crestfallen. “I reckon you bagged him,
old man, and I did want him to be my
buffalo! ”
I could still hear Holt cursing behind
us. Then suddenly he began to roar
laughing. I was glad about that and let
go meself.
“Don’t you worry, lad,” I told Bassett,
near splitting at sight of his mystified-
looking face. “He’s your buffalo, too
right he is—if only he didn’t happen to
be one of Holt’s bulls!”
I reckon the girl who’d got into my
carriage a bit back wondered what I was
chuckling about. She gave me the once-
over and pretty cold at that! A pity,
because she was a smart-looking sheila;
and there I had been wasting good time
on thinking back to the North and had
to get out of the train at Cottesloe before
I knew I was there!
Bassett has a fine pair of dinkum buf-
falo horns now, all ready to send home
to mother. But that’s a yarn better suited
to coots in leggin’s and topees.
Which of You?
Just beyond the breakers’ reach,
Soothed and sung to by the sea,
Here on this enchanted beach
Privileged am I to be.
Fine it is to have no task,
Ne’er a care to trouble one;
Fine in golden light to bask
Drowsing ’neath the genial sun!
While on reef and sandy shoal
Break the curved and creamy seas,
Watching porpoises that roll
Through the waves, I lie at ease.
All unstirred and all asleep,
Like a toiler taking rest,
Broad and placid lies the deep,
Not a wind upon its breast.
Such a sense of quiet lulls
Golden beach and ocean blue,
That the busy silver gulls,
Feeling it, grow languid, too.
Sunshine making bright its rails
As it sways from side to side,
Headed south with empty sails
Floats a schooner on the tide.
Drowsing thus beside the sea —
This of all the world I ask—
Should I not right grateful be,
Having neither care nor task?
Basking where the waves roll in—
Town and turmoil leagues away—
Whiqh of you who toil and spin
Would not change with me to-day?
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


(I^Gxlluiw’s
7a
wA/sJci
e
JS
o
r)
a
33-2 .
■; i,
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE
OUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
OF McCALLUM:
GIBBS, BRIGHT
& CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON,
MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
“THE DOUGH MAN”
By Robert Desmond Tate.
The Literary Sensation of the Year.
This is the Author’s brilliant first novel; it is the first of its kind among our
novelists. It translates, in terms of the sharpest realism, an aspect of life in the raw
—in the sweat and steam, the stealth and sinister dealings that may form the
atmosphere of industrial workers. It shows the reaction of a girl of clean character
and a man who, in other circufhstances, might have been an inspiration to men.
The Press Gave Unstinted Praise to “The Doughman.”
“SYDNEY MORNING HERALD”: “the, most strikingly original Australian
novel to appear for s>. long time. Mr. Tate writes with vitality and conviction
his relentless realism shocks the more fastidious readers. The descriptive work
is uncommonly good.”
“THE BULLETIN”: “the novelis a bold, dramatic conception, working up to
a spectacular climax a novel with the stuff of life in it.”
“THE TELEGRAPH” (Sydney) :... .“the most distinctive piece of writing
evolved in Australia for many a long day it contains one of the most magnificent
portraits of a nagging wife....l don’t remember anything £o good in any book
such a book as this would be a sure Book-of-the-Month in England.”
“THE DOUGHMAN,”
By Robert Desmond Tate.
An Endeavour Press Publication ----6/- net (Postage 3d.)
\p
o
o
*
o
O
r*
** 'S'"
\V
\P <yc« e6
o°'>^
\\%
o*
S>*
0°
A)
e
V> •«*
W e
0
aC’ ,s e “
#><V' ,•••-'
.••* x> „.-.>
* <# > v *


"Human Rust
primary
cause of 95°/o of
present-day sickness”
. . . explains Consulting Physician
of Buda Pesth
Dr. EMIL LEVAI
JUST as rust coats a water pipe, so
through faulty bowel action fragments
of food waste become encrusted on the
walls of the intestine. This waste matter is
human rust.” In it breed germs and
poisons which enter the blood stream, leading
to dreaded self-poisoning (autoxima). Self-
poisoning, the result of “human rust,” is
responsible for most of the ill-health which
afflicts modern men and women.
Clear out “Human Rust” with
Coloseptic
You can clear from your system the virulent
poisons that undermine health and sap
vitality. You can banish constipation, head-
ache, gas in the bowels and stomach, catarrh,
backache, rheumatism, neuritis, and all the
hosts of ailments that come from self-poison-
ing. Take COLOSEPTIC. It first loosens
and dissolves, then smoothly washes out the
decaying waste. It rids the body of all
poisons and blood impurities through
Nature s four outlets—-the large intestine —*
the kidneys—the pores of the skin—and the
respiratory organs.
Regain Your Youthful Vigour
Every morning take COLOSEPTIC
in hot water, COLOSEPTIC actually
“tones” and cleanses your entire digestive
tract —helps your body throw off its waste
matter regularly. No longer are you
depressed, tired without cause, subject to
headaches and colds. Your pulse leaps to
the thrills of life —your old vim and vigour
return. Aches, pains, and ailments vanish
for ever.
? JL
'm*
READ THIS TESTIMONIAL.
Influenza Relieved.
“Tewkesbury, Tasmania .
“I have to tell you that I felt great benefit from
Colo septic. I was suffering from ‘flu! I had been ill
for a month. After ta\ing but a few doses I felt much
better. The dry cough left me entirely. Am telling my
neighbors about it now,
( A. .... . E T. .. ..
The original of this testimonial can be seen at the Head
Office of Coloseptic (Aust.). Ltd.
COLOSEPTIC Regular full-sized jars
from all chemists. Sufficient for several
weeks’ regular use. Test COLOSEPTIC
for yourself. . . . Fill in the coupon and send
it in, together with postal note or stamps for
1/-, and receive an interesting booklet on
your health and a Special Demonstration
Jar of COLOSEPTIC.
COLOSEPTIC (AUST.) LTD., 24 Jamieson St., Sydney
COUPON.
Coloseptic (Aust.) Ltd.,
24 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
I will test Coloseptic. Enclosed find
1/- (stamps or postal note). Send me
one SPECIAL DEMONSTRATION JAR and
"AUTOXIMA” Booklet.
NAME
ADDRESS
