

H
*£K
to
CM
«w.s
si
m
m
!
F o V
/ (j
t':
m
rm
a
-A r
L^SSS
/■•::•
m
*Sfc9
'
tfME EXP^S;
yZH
\
V
/
/
/
THREE
THREES
ARE NINE
for Siocpenoe
What a sensation it would create in a first-class match if a bowler
skittled the first three wickets with his first three balls! —the sort of
sensation that was created in cigarette circles when Three-threes were
announced at NINE for sixpence!—a rare sensation —a record —for
never before have cigarettes of Ardath quality been available at a price
like that! Slip into the next tobacconist’s—sample Three-threes —the
historic Three-threes quality—with choice of cork AND plain tips.
ST§TE (xf>i{ESS
333
9/0
184,1'- 2 74, Kb
Also Flat 50s, Flat 100 s,
and Round Air-tight 50s.
CORK TIPPED AND PLAIN
The Bulletin
JkaM us# Ps .
Vol. 54.—N0. 2766.
Wednesday, February 15, 1933.
Registered atdhe General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Price 6d.


CENJI- for our Library Catalogue, con-
taining full terms and particulars. Sent
to anv address, post free, on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
George Street, Sydney.
I
It
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, at
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
Uy Name
Mu Address
8.8. 233 '.
(Sticura
Pure and Reliable
CUTICURA
PREPARATIONS
are equally as good as they were
over fifty years ago. The Soap
is excellent for every-day use, the
Ointment for skin irritations,
the Talcum to refresh and cool
the skin.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S.W.
Cuticura Shavintf Stick 1 s. fid.
“NOSCERE” BOOKSHOP
Proprietor: Frank C. Mardel
Educational, Scientific, Technical,
Legal and Commercial Booksellers
NEW AND SECONDHAND
From a single Book to a complete Library.
A Library in the Home expresses your
own personality.
Special attention paid to Country Orders
99a QUEEN ST,, MELBOURNE. M 3387
“THE AGE”
Established 185-i.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
You do not leave it to chance in choosing a
newspaper for your advertising campaigns. You
require evidence of its stability and inquire
fully into it's claims for preference before
entrusting it with your sales message.
No discriminate buyer of newspaper space can
afford to overlook
“THE AGE”
when contemplating future allocations for
Victoria.
Make your first preference “THE AGE,’’ and
you will be convinced that in choosing this
medium to broadcast your sales message
throughout the State your choice has been
fully justified.
“The Age” CIRCULATES in the
homes and offices of 115,000 sub-
scribers daily, and publishes over ONE
MILLION Advertisements annually.
Ratea on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office. 43 Hunter Street.
35 SALESMEN
UNANIMOUS.
A few weeks ago a large
insurance company (The
Australian Metropolitan
Life Assurance Coy.)—
an industrial company,
doing business with work-
ing people—had an im-
portant. message for those
people. How should they
make it known? They
asked their salesmen and
collectors: “Which news-
papers do you find most
frequently in the homes
you visit?” The reply was
unanimous—•
The
Brisbane
Courier,
Member Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
Representative:—
Robt. D. Fisher —85007.
74 Pitt St., Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should road the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
011013-
s
That the Soundest State
IS
QUEENSLAND
EVERYONE AGREES
1 THAT
THE BRISBANE
“TELEGRAPH”
IS THE
Pre-eminent Sales
Medium
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
is renowned for its vigorous
influence, its freedom from
vulgarity and stupid sensa-
tionalism, and its high per-
centage of home deliveries.
The Brisbane “Telegraph”
carries more classified adver-
tisements than any other
Queensland daily.
It follows that advertisers
must agree that as an eco-
nomic force in the Queens-
land market “The Telegraph”
leads the way.
TELEGPADH
/. BRISBANE* LEADING HOME NEWSPAPER -
The Red Page
HIS BOOKS
Weak Endings
Nine modem novels out of ten are
spoiled in the last chapter. The average
writer of recognised merit gives interesting
pictures of all kinds of aspects of life, at
home and abroad, in which the adventures
of the characters are described with courage,
rfbt to say audacity, up to a point. Not
since Fielding has the English novel been
so plain-spoken. Yet most of these writers
are timid at heart. They aren’t afraid of
shocking the righteous with a naturalism
regarding sex in all its manifestations which
often makes Zola appear bourgeois by con-
trast, but when it comes to carrying their
method to its logical conclusion they lose
their nerve. It is borne in on them that pub-
lishers like happy endings, even though the
endings are palpable fakes. In their
anxiety to see readers put down their works
with the comfortable reflection that all no
doubt happened for the best, they make
fiction' seem stranger than truth.
Study in Obtuseness
Margaret Kennedy’s A Long Time Ago
(Heinemann; 7s. 6d.) is a fine novel spoiled
in this way. She begins with an extract
from “The Story of My Life,” by Elissa
Koebel—a brilliant parody on the auto-
biography of a frequent lover which was
a best-seller a few years ago. When Elissa
was in her prime as a singer a friend offered
to lend her a cottage near a lake in
Ireland. On an impulse she accepted. In
the castle on an island in the lake she
finds an English family who are there for
the summer. Louise and her husband, an
Oxford don, and their children; Ellen, her
lovely sister; Kerran, their brother; Barny,
another brother, and his vulgar wife Maude;
and Guy Fletcher (chastely in love with
Ellen) are at the castle when Elissa first
visits it. The drama begins when Ellen’s
husB&nd Dick, a London surgeon, arrives.
Elissa falls in love with him at once, and
in due course he goes to stay at her cot-
tage. All Ellen’s relations know, and are
disgusted; the servants know, and are sym-
pathetic; but Ellen doesn’t suspect. When
Barny gets appendicitis Dick arrives from
the cottage and operates; Elissa vanishes;
Ellen and Dick resume their old life; he
rises to great heights in his profession, and
then dies and leaves her with fragrant
memories of their lffe together. It is a.
delightfully-told story, full of gay humor and
malicious insight into the ways of women,
children and servants, but it doesn’t tell the
truth. Ellen is a lovable person. It is sad
to think of anything happening to bring
bitterness and disillusionment to her lonely
old age. ' So Miss Kennedy asks us to be-
lieve that no 'hint of this screaming scandal,
of which all the adult members of the
Annesley faniily and their servants knew
the details, ever reached Ellen’s ears. She
was even saved from learning the truth
when Elissa’s (book appeared.
Ellen picked it up and feit a little dis-
agreeable shock.as she saw the title:
“The Story of;My Life,” by Elissa Koebel.
She remembered now that she had seen
something, an advertisement or a review
or something, ini the papers. Elissa Koebel.
That queer woman who used to come to
the island, in ;that. queer long ago, when
Barny had appendicitis.
She took the. book over to the light and
turned the pagjes. The print looked small
and uninviting,, and she had left her glasses
downstairs, in any case she did not sup-
pose she would) care for it.
A Stone-age/Love Affair
H. de Were Stacpoole has a gift for
making life? on tropical islands seem de-
sirable. He) exercises it as beguilingly' as
ever in TkeJNaked Soul (Collins; 7s. 6d.),
and he also! poses a problem of unfailing
interest to ari th*ropologists. To what extent
is the human brain dependent on environ-
ment? In this novel a young London bar-
rister is sent by his uncle on a mysterious
mission to Tukara, which is in the remote
and perilous seas that wash Formosa. Many
disconcertinjg things happen to him before
and after 'he reaches his destination, a
fertile islafnd with no human inhabitant
but a loveily girl. She is 17, and since the
death of flier mother—abandoned there by
the uncle (already referred to—she has lived
the life of a wild animal. She is as hard
to approach as any animal, so he decides
to wait a?nd let her approach him. The ruse
succeeds. She arrives in his tent one night,
and he * grasps her. A neolithic struggle
follows.
His sudden seizure of her had converted
attraction into' violent antagonism. He
was figfnting for his life, and he knew
it, figWting something far more terrible
than a panther—
Woman, and the
knowledge filled
him with a fury
come up from un-
dated ages. So they
fought in the dark
of the tent, not a
man and a woman but male and female, on
this desolate island that belonged for a
moment to a time beyond the stone age.
He conquers her in the end—stuns her by
beating her head on the ground—-and after
that- she is his obedient slave. The novelist
is now in a predicament. Young Trent has
ho intention of remaining permanently on
the island. His friend Hendrick is calling
for him shortly in the Hamada, which will
put him on the road to England and his
chambers in the Inner Temple. A wife out
of the stone age who has never worn
clothes or learned to speak would be a
heavy handicap to an ambitious junior at
the London Bar, What is to be the next
stage in the relationship of the young
people? A missionary who happens to be
on board the Hamada (will he marry
them?) gives a vague hint on the last page.
“You and I are like children watching
a play we can see, which holds us, but
which we cannot quite understand. Those
two there in the wood are the actors; igno-
rant as the birds of all but the parts that
have been set them by the Divine Drama-
tist.
Leave the event to Him.
In short, the author declines to accept
any further responsibility in the inatter.
Infatuation
V. Sackville-West also takes the easy
way in Family History (The Hogarth
Press; 7s. 6d.). Old Mr. Jarrold, wh©
began life as a collier, is a millionaire when
the story opens. He is devoted to his
daughter-in-law Evelyn, who was widowed
during the war, and proud of her son Dan,
\vho is at Eton. Evelyn' is a distractingly
alluring creature with a passionate nature,
yet in all the years since the war she has
preserved a spotless reputation. As Gibbon
observed of Antonina, “It was not till the
autumn of her age and beauty that she
indulged a scandalous attachment.” She
falls madly in love at 39 with Miles Vane-
Merrick, who is 25. He asks her to marry
him, but she refuses on account of the dis-
crepancy in their ages. The Jarrolds, who
are highly respectable, are annoyed, but she
doesn’t mind. Her romance proceeds
according to the melancholy plan of all
romances in which the woman is many
years older than the man, and much fonder
of him than he is of her. To add to her
difficulties, Miles is attractive to other
women. He wants to go home and work,
she makes him stay at her flat; he neglects
her, she resents it; he says things to hurt
her, she retaliates with jeers that madden
him. The principal characters are types
who have appeared in other books, but they
are interesting because Miss Sackville-West
has known them intimately, and is able to
bring people she has known to life. Yet it
is a disappointing book. The ifnportant
things, after all, were not the ones that
happened to Evelyn while she was living
her brief romance. As a woman in love
for the first time she is very like any school-
girl in the same plight; just as silly and
unreasonable, and, in most directions, just
as short-sighted. What did she develop
into as a result of her shattering experience?
What were its eventual reactions on the
Jarrolds? Did it bring her son’s friendship
with Miles to an end? And what were
the effects, if any, on that somewhat sorry
specimen of an idealist-intellectual Miles?
These inevitable problems would be diffi-
cult to handle without robbing Evelyn of
her glamor, so Miss Sackville-West makes
everybody happy, in a manner of speaking,
by killing the distressed lady off. A feeble
ending. The novel isn’t family history at
all; it is merely the history of an infatu-
ation.
RED PAGE.
How National Songs Are Born
There is a sense, it seems to me, in which
the comparative failure of the recent
Bulletin Song Competition is more inter-
esting than the lucky chance of its success
would have been,
A really effective and popular national
song inevitably expresses an emotional idea
that is common to a large proportion of the
community. The “Marseillaise” expresses
such an idea. Over all its technical failings,
“God Save the King” has become the thing
it is because it speaks for a feeling and an
idea that were widely and deeply and nobly
held by Englishmen. It is absurd to speak
of such songs as accidents, if by “accident”
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"—The Straight Line of Merchandising.
THE SENIOR STORE.’
You will have to hurry for these FINAL SALE BARGAINS!
Anthony
Horderns'
50/- Pure Wool
RUGS, 42-
Pure Merino Wool Travelling Rugs. Aus-
tralian-made, in a wide range of the
newest designs and color effects. Featur-
ing self-color or faint design on one side,
and check effect on the other side.
Deep fringed ends. Very soft finish.
Size, 80 x 60 inch. Price, each . . 50/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each, 42/-
(Travel Goods—Ground Floor, George
Street. Freight paid to all Seaports in the
Commonwealth and all Railway Stations
in N.S.W.)
sdf
HALF-YEARLY GENUINE
Genuine Reductions
on High-quality
MEN’S HATS
m
10
6
m
lie
In Fur Felt
Men’s Pure Fur Felt Hats.
Snap Brims in all the
wanted shades of Greys
and Fawns.
Price, each 14/6
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price, each . . 10/6
Silk Lined !
Men’s , Pure Fur Felt Hats.
A quality hat with best
trimmings and silk lined.
The colors are Plover,
Grey, Fawn, Beaver, Steel
and Slate, t
Price, each 17/6
Anthony Horderns’
Sale Price, each .. 12/6
616 Men’s Work Shirts
The “Bushman” Work Shirts. A durable
shirt, with collar and pocket attached.
Heather shade. Sizes, 14£ to inch.
5/9
6/6
5/9
Price, each
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, each
8/6 Pyjama Suits, now
I+m - f .
In Striped Flannelette. Men s Pyjama Suits.
Assorted striped designs. Medium weight.
Sizes, 36 to 44 inch chest.
6/6
Price, suit , • 8/(>
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, suit 6/6
{Mercery—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid
to all Seaports in the C ommonwealth and Railway Stations
in N.S.W.)
COMPARE QUALITY FOR
QUALITY—AND PRICE FOR
PRICE.
The Sale of the Sale Season !
Ends Saturday, 18th February, at 12.30 p.m.
Only a few days remain for you to obtain the super-values
now offering. . . .values that are in advance of all previous
efforts to make this “THE Sale of the Sale Season.”
Economy necessitates action! Such super-values will not
last long. .. .and the Sale ends on Saturday at 12.30 p.m.
A Super Sale Value!
£4/16/6 Value
SUIT-TO-MEASURE
Everywhere men are discussing this excep-
tional value in a high-grade Suit to measure.
The materials alone command instant atten-
tion —they are tasteful, distinctive all-wool
Worsteds and are made up according to
very latest style decrees by our own experts.
You, too, will acclaim this value when you
see the patterns to-morrow. Price, £4/1 6/6
Sale Price 63/-
( Men’s Wear—Ground Floor, George Street.
Freight paid to all Seaports m the Commonwealth
and Railway Stations in N.S.W.)
/ y
3h 1
\
-/' ■ ' *
L
. if
/ ,
■
, ■
■
v
'k . V
■
1
1
“Hordura” Tan Willow Calf and
Black Box Calf Elastic-side Biding
Boots. Genuine Welted Soles. Full
and half sizes. Price, pair, 27/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, 26/-
In Tan and Fdaek. Standard
Screwed Soles. Price, pair .. IS/6
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, 17/6
“Hordura” Officers’ Boots. In Tan
Calf, also Black Box Calf. No toe-
caps. Extra stout. Genuine Welted
Soles. Full and half sizes. Price,
pair 25/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, 21/-
“Hordura” Ezy Arch Shoes for Men.
Made in Tan Calf, Havana Brown
and Box Calf. Genuine Welted Soles.
Fitted with special Flexible Steel
Arch Supports. Full and half sizes.
Price, pair 25/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale Price, 18/11
(lien’s Shoes—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all
Seaports in the Commonwealth and Railway Stations in N.S.W .)
21/- Attache Case
Solid Leather Attache Cases. ,
Made from smooth surface
genuine Cowhide; metal
126
frame round body of case. Two patent
locks. Size, 16 inches. Price 21/-
Sale Price 12/6
(Travel Goods—Ground Floor, George Street.
Freight not paid.)
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LIMITED,
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


Overflow from the Red Spot Sale!
*nrc»
AFTER
SALE
• Silk-lined...
•PureFurFelt
•Formerly 25/-
Buy it for ...
BUY a SILK-LINED pure
Fur Felt Hat in snappy
new season’s shades which
well-dressed men prefer.
“Snap Brim” shape—and a
saving of 11/6!
Also men’s pure Fur Felt
“Snap Brim” Hats in latest
shades. Usually 21 /-
SPECIAL PRICE 12/6
<s£©
mm
Be Cool.. Panamas
Men’s Cream Fibre Panamas in
the popular “Alpine” shape.
Usually 15/6.
SPECIAL PRICE 10/3
sdf
Men’s 84/-
Sac Suits
59'6
Sensational offer of men’s high-grade Blue
Worsted Sac Suits in neat pencil stripe designs.
Three garments, ready for service.
Men’s Shoes
Men’s solid leather Shoes in
Black, Tan or Nut Brown Calf.
Newest round toe shape or
square toe shape. Genuine
welted soles. Half sizes.
Usually 19/1 1
SPECIAL 14/11
Men’s Shirts
Men’s Poplin de Luxe Golf
Shirts in a smart array of new
season’s colors and stripe
effects. Collar to match.
Sizes 1 4 to 1 6^.
Usually 6/6 to 7/6.
SPECIAL 4/9
Men’s Pyjamas
Men’s good quality Crepe
Pyjamas in self colors of Pink,
Fawn, Blue, Mauve, etc. Con-
trasting collars and pockets.
Roll Collar style.
Usually 10/6.
SPECIAL 5/3
Men’s Socks
Men’s all wool fancy Cashmere
Socks in Sydney’s largest array
of colors and designs. Perfect
footform shape.
Usually 4/6.
SPECIAL 2/3
Boys’ Suits
Excellently-cut All-Wool Tweed
Suits for boys, in dark grey
shade. Fashioned with the
popular sac back and plain
knee knickers. Sizes 4 to 12.
Usually 19/11.
SPECIAL 14/11
Knickers
Murdoch’s special wear-resist-
ing navy Cheviot or dark grey
Tweed knickers for boys.
Plain knees and in sizes 3 to
12.
Usually 5/11.
SPECIAL 3/8
Sand Boots
Brown and White Sand Boots
for boys. Good, reliable
quality, with crepe rubber
soles. Sizes 10 to 1.
Usually 5/11.
SPECIAL 2/11
Youths’ Suits
Fashionably-c u t Thornproof
Tweed Sac Suits for youths.
Nice selection of patterns.
Ready for immediate service,
in sizes 12 to 2\ .
Usually 50/-
SPECIAL 37/9
We Pay
Freight.
[Murdoch’s
Kindly write
letters to
Desk “R.”
EVERYONE NEEDS IT !
EVERYONE CAN USE IT !
EVERYONE CAN AFFORD IT!
sdf
The British
Imperial
GOOD
COMPANION
Portable
£l9/19/
Terms Available.
This handy new British Portable will find a welcome place in every office
and home. The “Good Companion” is light and compact, and all
typing more quickly and more legibly than anything you’ve ever tried.
Any of these Agents will supply free details and literature:
L. DOBELL & 00., LTD., IMPERIAL TYPEWRITER SALES CO., GEO. RAITT & 00. PTY., LTD.,
43 Creek Street, Brisbane. 22 Martin Place, Sydney. 40 Queen Street, Melbourne.
OFFICE EQUIPPERS, LTD., JOHNSON & HEY, OFFICE SUPPLIES CO.,
Gawler Place, Adelaide. Hunter Street, Newcastle. 105 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
BURRIDGE & WARREN, LTD., 69 King Street, Perth.
TO BE PUBLISHED SHORTLY
“SATURDEE”
by
NORMAN LINDSAY
This amusing novel, by Australia's most discussed author, describes the pranks
of schoolboys and schoolgirls with a marvellous understanding of the mentality
of “human tadpoles ” The exploits of Conkey and Peter, Bullj'o, Ponkey, Snowey,
and of their girl-friends Dolly. Trixie and Elsie are related with brilliant wit.
There is nobody quite like Norman Lindsay. As an entertainer he shines at his
best in this book. “Saturdee" is guaranteed to make you smile. It is the first
novel printed and published in Australia by The Endeavour Press, the new book
company associated with The Bulletin.
Cloth Bound, Price 6s. Posted 3d. extra
ORDER YOUR COPY NOW FROM
ANY BOOKSELLER OR NEWSAGENT
sdf
or from the Publishers
THE ENDEAVOUR PRESS
Bulletin Buildings
252 George Street, Sydney
sdf
TRUE BLUE AND BRITISH.
if
fc
n
♦
♦
11! ;l
9
T he Kangaroo is seldom
blue . . . but he’s “plus
alittlesomething,” too!
He’s earned his place as a
national emblem because
he has the fighting Empire
spirit... And it’s the extra
“punch” and “kick” in the
only true blue British
petrol that has earned its
popularity in Australia’s
petrol tanks ...
PLUS WHAT ?
PLUS A LITTLE SOMETHING
OTHERS HAVENTGOT
*
“C.O.R” Plus is a fine quality
motor spirit plus a special soluble
compound of lead which eliminates
“pinking” and meets the needs of
today’s higher-compression engines.
For your protection it is coloured
BLUK by the addition of a minute
quantity of perfectly harmless aniline
dve which cannot separate from the
petrol.
C49/16/33
The Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. (Commonwealth Government andAnglo-Peraan O' l Co. Ltd 1
POOlman Street, Port Melbourne, 5.C.7. ’Phone: M 3261. 117 «****««£ Ltd.
Agents for South Australia and Queensland: % . " . ——


A New Body for WOU
IN JUST3O DAYS/
\
I
1
I
£
1
ALFRED. J. IiRITON
Australasia’s Leading: Physical
Director. Founder of “Health
and Physical Culture” Magazine.
MORE STARTLING PROOF!
PUT ON 5 INCHES ON CHEST!
“I put on 5 inches around the chest and
1 inch on the upper arms. I am very fit
and well also, and thank you for the
interest taken in me.”
—F. WOOD, W.. N.Z.
DON’T KNOW HOW TO EXPRESS
GRATITUDE.
“I don't think you have a more thankful
and satisfied pupil than I am. In fact, I
am that satisfied I don’t know how to ex-
press my gratitude. I am lost for words
good enough to praise your wonderful
course. No man should be without it —at
least no man would !>• without it if he had
it a few days. It is marvellous.”
—D. H. MOREHEAD, D.. N.S.AV.
BEST THING EVER TOOK ON.
“Your Excelding System, I am glad to
say, was the best thing I ever took on. My
muscles are responding amazingly, and my
personality is improving, also the nervous-
ness is leaving me, thanks to your system.”
—D.D., D., Tas.
FAR SUPERIOR TO OTHER SYSTEMS!
“I am convinced your system is the pick
of them all.”—J. T. HALL, T., N.S.W.
<£looo GUARANTEE
I guarantee that all testimonials pub-
lished in this announcement _ are
genuine extracts from reports received.
ALFRED J. BRITON
Dept. E.,
107 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Is this a miracle that changes
men almost overnight into
wonderful specimens of virile
manhood? Read this message
— it's written specially for you *
VOU are going to get the surprise of
* your life when you look in your mirror
this time next month! You’ll see a
DIFFERENT MAN! Not the chap you’ve
known all your life as YOU, hut another
man entirely! A big, strapping, handsome
fellow who’looks as if he is fit for any-
thing!—ready to go out and conquer the
world ! Yes. you’ll see a man who’s fairly
ALIVE with health, vitality, strength!
There’ll be a flash in his eye and a glow
in his cheeks. Those big, broad shoulders
—that deep, powerful chest—that slim, ath-
letic waist. And those MUSCLES ! They’ll
stand out in huge masses on his arms—
he'll he a mass of rippling strength from
tip to toes. Yes! That, man you see will
be YOU.
Now it’s YOUR Turn!
| ET me do for you all I have done for
" thousands of others. Let me give you the
pleasantest surprise you’ve ever had in your
life. Let me build you a set of muscles that
will add INCHES to our arms, your shoul-
ders, your chest. Let me put that body of
yours RIGHT; put new life and strength
into your vital organs—your lungs, your
stomach, your heart. I’ll do all this for
you. I don’t just say it—l’LL GUARAN-
-500 Startling NEW BOOKS
on Strength-FREE!
For a limited time you may get this wonder
book free, if you act quickly. Its message
and its many illustrations will amaze you.
It contains matter of vital information that
you should know about at once. Rip the
coupon out and post TO-DAY.
RIP THIS OUT AND MAIL NOW
d
ALFRED J. BRITON.
Dept, h;
107 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir Please
send me, absolutely
FREE, a copy of your latest book,
“The Secrets of Muscular Strength—
And How to Acquire It. DO NT
SEND ONE PENNY —ITS FREE.
NAME.
FULL ADDRESS
is meant something which might or might
not happen at any chance time or place.
One might as well speak of the Cathedral
of Our Lady of Salisbury as an accident or
the Divine Comedy as a happy chance.
These things are like fruit from a tree, and
it is hardly necessary to insist that you must
grow your tree before you taste your fruit.
My argument then is that a proper
national song is a fruit of a national culture,
come to ripe season; and the special prob-
lem that tantalised me, when the com-
petition was set, presented itself in
something this fashion: do Australians
widely and deeply hold any of that sort
of noble, formative, distinctive ideas which
are root and sap, cause and life of distinc-
tive cultures? And after a considerable
amount of thought, I found myself in the
doubt that is near to disbelief. It seemed
to me that the Australian culture is yet in
the womb of time; that in these days we
who may father, it live only in the hope
and aspiration of parenthood; and that such
a hope and aspiration is the only theme for
our song. In that mood I made my own
song.
Australia is young. I am not talking
merely in figures of speech, for in all vital
things there is a cycle of organic change, of
birth, growth, maturity, decline, death. One
knows the stages of the advance by their
characteristic symptoms. And one knows cul-
tures by their characteristic formative ideas,
the ideas that shape and nurture them; as
Christianity, for instance, shaped and nur-
tured the West, and Buddhism great pro-
vinces of the East. It is the things of the
spirit that waken the souls and enlighten
the minds of peoples; and culture is of the
soul and the mind, even if sometimes of
an ignoble soul and mind. So that when
one speaks of a national culture as a dis-
tinctive thing, one implies a distinctive
national soul and mind, one implies large
and spiritually-effective, formative ideas,
nurturing a common spiritual and mental
life. It was those ideas that I missed when
I turned to consider what characteristically
Australian themes might be fit prompters of
a worthy song. It was Australia’s special
misfortune, and it is Australia’s special dan-
ger, that she was born in an age when the
wells of philosophy were almost dry and
the seeds shrivelled under a strong material-
ism. Almost all the other new nations, as
almost all cultures, were born with some
fine spiritual gift, even amid dross; but at
our natal couch we had no one more like to
a fairy godmother than the sombre figure
of a Nonconformist Liberal.
In our developing life, the only ideas
that have had much sway and effect are
those derived from a rapidly-staling Liberal-
ism, so antipathetic to the natural instincts
of most men that only a few have
retained it with the fervor and zest that
shape souls and nurture cultures. Noth-
ing could have hampered a proper
democratic development more than that
Liberalism; nothing could have hindered
the free and happy development of a
national mind and spirit more than the
confines of its narrow politics and narrow
religiosity. Like a child bred in a Calvin-
istic household, we must seek beauty and
freedom by tortuous ways; and we must
remember that the beauty and the freedom
we seek are not the things that were im-
plied in a jargon which debased the words.
No man loves Australia better than 1
love it; no man hopes more for it. Let
me protest this love and hope but once,
and because I am afraid; and let me say
that I cannot yet sense any deep spiritual
stirring, any profound, noble, national idea
seeking expression in song. We have come,
most of us, to love this country, which is
our country, and which, please God, will be
our children’s country; we have come to
some feeling of corporate unity; but we
have not yet been touched by the wand of
that angel out of Heaven at whose coming
a stagnant pool is strangely and richly
moved.
D. P. MCGUIRE.
An Australian Arnold
The tradition of great schoolmasters,
long cherished in England, has taken root
in Australia. Already this young country
boasts an honor roll which, if it cannot
claim reincarnations of those mighty
wi elders of ferrule and birch Busby of
Westminster and Keate of Eton, bears the
name of more than one not unworthy to
rank with Arnold of Rugby and Butler of
Shrewsbury and Harrow, to pass over still
later lights.
Foremost among these is the name of the
late L. A. Adamson, a young Manxman
who came to Australia, after being admitted
to the English Bar, with the idea of prac-
tising in Sydney. By one of the queer
chances which order the affairs of men,
young Adamson found himself a master at
esley College, a Melbourne foundation
which its sponsors hoped would carry on in
Australia the traditions of the English
public schools.
Evil days fell upon Wesley, and when
Adamson took over the headmastership in
1902 it was in a grievous condition. He
set to work to rebuild it on the lines of
his beloved Rugby in work and play alike.
How he succeeded and brought the mori-
bund school to the front rank of Australian
foundations, while infecting it with his own
vivid and versatile personality, may be
read in Adamson of Wesley (Robertson and
Mullens; 10s.), edited by Felix Mayer, and
containing many contributed articles on
various aspects of the school, some of them,
like “Wesley in the War,” written by Adarm
son himself before his death.
These treat of the man’s many-sided
character, as well as with impressions and
records of the school he built up. Adam-
son was a scholar of high standing, an
acknowledged connoisseur and collector, a
keen naturalist and a lover of animals —
the two do not always go hand in hand—a
great educationist, a leader in public
affairs and a notable sport legislator and
administrator. The impression which his
30 years of service stamped on those
who passed through his hands may be
gathered from the numerous published
letters from many old pupils who have
earned distinction at home and abroad
which form part of the book.
Adamson of Wdsley is excellently printed
and illustrated. If it has’A fault it is that
the many differing sections that go to its
make-up are confusing; the trees tend to
obscure the wood.
A Satchel of Books
Alice Campbell’s “The Click of the Gate”
was such a supremely good thriller that her
next was almost bound to be an anti-climax.
The Murder of Caroline Bundy (Crime Club ;
7s. 6d.) suggests that she is more at her ease
in France than in the west of England, but
it’s a fine story all the same. The Tilburys
are a horrifying pair, and Natasha, who only
missed being convicted of the murder of her
late employer by a brilliant move on the part
of her counsel, is a charming heroine.
Josephus (Seeker; Robertson and Mullens;
7s. fid. net), Lion Feuchtwanger’s latest, is
another panorama, after the “Jew Suss”
model. In this case, the canvas is crowded
with Roman senators, emperors and cour-
tesans, jostling Jewish priests_ and revolu-
tionaries. The central theme is tlie career
of the Jewish historian Josephus, who alter-
nately flatters the Roman power and joins
the patriotic movement to destroy.it. Feuch-
twanger’s method had some tonal qualities in
“Jew Suss” and “Success,” but in “Josephus”
it is hard, precise and photographic. Never-
theless, the book gives an amazingly en-
cyclopaedic picture of the confused first
century a.d., which ended with the destruc-
tion of the Temple in Jerusalem and the
Great Dispersal of the Chosen People.
Hal Eyre’s Betty ami the Bears (Methuen ;
55.) is in the “Alice” tradition, both as
regards the letterpress and the author’s
illustrations. A ’possum comes towards
Betty wringing her hands: —
“Oh dear ! The poor little thing. It is so sad —
so sad,” said the ’Possum.
“What is sad?” asked Betty.
“A dear little girl lost herself.”
“Oh, the poor dear,” said Betty. “Where was
she lost?”
“How do I know? How does anyone know,
stupid? If we knew we would just go there and
find her.”
“But are you sure she lost herself ? How do
you know she did?”
“Because she was all by herself, so nobody else
could have lost her. Could they?”
There are a couple of hundred pages of
humor in that vein, with Australian animals
making most of the conversation before Betty
wakes up. They differ from Lewis Carroll’s
creations inasmuch as none of them breaks
into verse.
And a Little Verse
LYRIC.
What is a lyric? A lyric is
The lift of a leaf, the sigh of a kiss,
A light-curled petal tinted thin,
The murmur of a violin
That touched one sea-chord of distress
And swirled the skirts of loveliness;
Only a faintly-fluted spell,
Only a china-tinkling bell,
Unless within its narrow bai-
ls the flash of a spear, the stab of a star!
N.S.W.
MICHAEL JORDAN.
THE AWAKENING OF JAIRUS’S
DAUGHTER.
I think that day the Galilean came
And called to her, the white-robed, silent
maid,
Outside the spring poured golden over all,
And roses white and crimson climbed her
wall
And mocked at death, in rich life unafraid.
She heard His voice just as the new day
broke
In dazzling light before her wondering
eyes;
When first she heard the shrill harps,
strangely sweet,
And waves of pearl on gold shores break
and beat,
And thunder of the great Hosannas rise,
She turned and came by path of unknown
stars
And blazing suns, unknown to mortal
sight,
Through wondrous ways, aflame with gold
and red,
Where only those set free by death might
tread,
And many a starless tract of sombre
night;
With every sense and nerve upstrung with
joy,
Half-terrified by rapture keen as pain,
From out that dread immensity of space,
She slowly came, and turned an eager face
To all life’s dear, familar things again.
But always, I think, she walked with eyes
of dreams,
Whose frail hands once made Heaven’s
gates unfold,
Who, far more blest than any mortal maid.
Had seen God’s glittering cohorts stand
arrayed
Before the walls of ivory and gold.
N.S.W.'
NELLIE A. EVANS.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped , Ham 9
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submittedj
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
H.0.M.: Too long. I)o try to realise that
there are hundreds clamoring for print... .L.M.:
Old theme and comedy overstrained. Pity, because
it’s extremely well done... .M.H.: Far-fetched...
S.M.P.: Nothing possible in that way at present....
J.C.O’N.: Letter read with sympathy and put away
for reference.... Ivarrijarrah: “Hasn’t Westralia a
right to secede on the principle of self-determina-
tion”? No. If it had, Albany, Kalgoorlie, Car-
narvon, Broome and Wyndham would have a right to
secede from a Westralia dominated by Perth...,
Hung War: Don’t think Hogan and Cameron were
ever closely associated in Westralia. Hogan was
secretary of a woodcutters’ union at Kurrawaug,
near Kalgoorlie ; Cameron’s office was at the Trades
Hall, Perth... .L.A.S.: The Bulletin does not pro-
pose at present to offer prizes for setting the chosen
song to music. .. .W.C.H.: Too long for our use;
suggestions must be put into 300 words or 50....
X.X.X.: Nothing new there. . . .N.K.S'.: We went
over the ground pretty thoroughly a few weeks ago.
....A + B: Hopeless at that length. There is no
room for frills; enough pours into The B. office every
day to fill two complete issues. .. .Wafer: You can
toss to see' who wins. It is “Ishmaelites” in Judges and
“Ishmeelites” in Genesis. .. .Gertrude C.: To begin
with, “path” and “laugh” never rhyme in February.
. ...Pintpot: Crashed. It was empty, anyhow....
Hugh G.: A singing line; but nothing to say that
hasn’t been said over and over .... .L. 8.: Indictment
noted Montrose: Too self-conscious Pete:
You’re dropping into obscurity... .Ivv G.: A sweet,
thin note; often a hint of great beauty, and then
a sudden falling-away. Read Noyes and Drink-
water, Masefield and Flecker... .Thos. S. Mcß.:
Sorry, it doesn’t. ... J.R.H.: Your butterfly took the
eye for a moment, but couldn’t hold it. .. . Bellerive:
A note this time on the higher education: —
ASTRONOMICAL STUDY.
In studying the planets
Of the universe,
To retaineth knowledge
Serious students rehearse.
Revelations are made
By the telescope,
Mystery’s to solve
The astronomer’s hope.
There’s a fascination
In studying the stars—■
Mercury, Venus and
Bright twinkling - Mar’s.
. ...G.M.D.: Might be a #ar. in it... .N.M.S.:
Wouldn’t call that a comedy. More like a tragedy.
... .A.D.: Belay there !... . J.E.F.: Thej-e’s promise in
the opening lines, but the unrhymed refrain is sheer
feebleness... .A.8.M.: Sorry to have to say that it’s
the dead limit in prosiness... .H.P.: One verse:—
Other apples may assert
Their crimson cheeks are smarter looking;
But Granny beats them for dessert
And hands down when it comes to cooking.
. ...F.G.G.: None Whatever... .A.N. A.:
For countless ages Past this Lemur land,
Enriched with fauna rare and trees unique,
In brooding silence slept, a sanctuary
For native birds and animals antique.
The animals, we presume, including Binghi.. .
R. J.N.: The opening lines will suffice: —
North Queensland, lovely home where wood-nymphs
, • bask
Amid a tranquil wonderment of light.
They suggest that Pegasus has taken the bit in his
teeth and bolted with you M. 0.: Excruciatingly
bad.. . . A.8.K.: If you want your contributions
returned, you must send stamps with them....
R.C.: These belated apostrophes to Australia begin
to grow tiring, especially when packed with such
phrases as *
Continent' of coming greatness
’Neath the high cerulean dome.
Is there any place on earth that hasn’t got the sky
above it?... .C.E.G.: Much too long-drawn-0ut....
R.McL.: No place here for Cousin F10....C.K.: Just
a string of worn platitudes.... G. 8.: “The Deathless
Poet” is an utterly lifeless bit of rhyme....
E. : Slapstick humor.... L.H.W.: Scarcely a
story... ,T. AAV.: Its incompleteness spoils it...,
F. : Too melodramatic... .H.D.: Sending Eddie
home... ,N.N.: Didn’t find the widow a scrap en-
chanting. .. .S.H.: Off our beat... .T.J.L.: Leads up
to nothing. .. .P.O.D. and 8.E.: You’ll never rival
Besant and Rice,..N.M.: Unconvincing.. .F.D.: No,
... . J. 8.: No ginger in it... .F.J.8.: Excellent adju-
rations in vile verse. .. .P.0.M.C.: Doesn’t shine
brightly enough. .. .J.M.: And you make us feel
worse when you try to rhyme “sore” with “gnaw.”
. ...M.H.H.: The year’s feeblest snake yarn....
M.G.W.: Tedious E.V.8.: Very slender.. . .G.P.:
Reads as if you had written it after seeing “Outward
Bound” and supping on lobsters... .M.U.: The long
arm is overworked... .R.E.8.: Not worth all that
space... .C.T.S,: Can’t swallow it... .S.H.P.: No
p10t... . E.M.: Not nearly humorous enough....
C.H.F.: He’s an incredible old fe110w.... Sach: But
what’s the grievance? The rate has been 25 p.c.
or more for just on two years past. There are no
daily variations in exchange on London.... Alan D.:
It wasn’t a very bright idea of Ruskin’s... . 8.P.0.:
Wobble and bump, and not one idea to the furlong.
. ...G.F.Y.: “No 1, in a different form, was accepled
by a Melbourne paper.” Well, it won’t be accepted
here... . V.W.: The piece is evidently of bronze and
of German origin. Might be worth anything from
£lO to £2O on the Sydney market... .F.F.: A.
E. W. Mason is 07. He was Liberal M.P. for
Coventry, 1906-10, and saw war service. Like “The
Broken Road” best among his novels, and prefer
“The Witness for the Defence” to his other plays.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.PAV. 5 Stiff and angular... .L.P.: Decorative,
but not dr011... .M.G.: Very amateurish... . J.M.:
Colored sketches are not wanted... .1).M.: Idea has
been overworked... .F.L.H.: You might have built
the lass on feminine lines... .D. 8.: Drawing of leg-
theory as feeble as some of the attempts to play it.
. ...R.J.: Childish scribbles... .A. R.H.: What skin
disease are they suffering from?... .H.S.: Very
ancient gag. .. . D.C.: Wretched drawing, old joke.
... .E.M.R.: Atrocious pun... .S.H.: Scores have
tackled it from the same angle.


ď
r £/ml 'lhiifern
t. \r~Jw55sS333Z
, %£,'* «« ;: %
"4 ' f Itr'"'*” r~' ■-I
t- X- * .'... p
■'“ '■'■ ii wv ■ •IS/.:,. * SBftt '■ V
:« ...■**. ’W
V..." . ". ■ ■■■■..■ - .
gppfjHr^
mm* »
-
u^ee/i


The Bulletin
Vol. 54. —No. 2766.
February 15, 1933.
A DEFICIT BY ANY OTHER NAME.
"The diretors of the Commonwealth strongl y re sisted the request of the Loan Council for an additional six millions to carry it through the balance
of the year. The Pointed out that the money was wanted, not wholly to cover deficits, but to finance works for the relief of the unemployed.”
CHAIRMAN ROBERT GIBSON: "But I War n " you — if you add to the load the animal will be in great danger of breaking down.”
BOSS TREASURER: “Well, we'll alter the label to ‘Relief Works,' and then he won’t feel it, will he?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
•
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington,
London: 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5195.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, Is,
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Od.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via '‘All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for 4oz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
STILL DRIFTING!
Our floating debt will reach 90 millions
when' this last forced loan has been com-
pleted; and it can be safely said that not
one single million of it is earning its own
keep. For the most part, indeed, the money
has been required to “meet deficits”; that
is, to pay current bills for wages and
salaries and pensions. This means, in plain
language, that we are employing more
public servants than we can afford, and
paying higher salaries and pensions and
other benefits, and are passing the bill on
to our children. Worse, we are not even
being honest with ourselves: we are reduc-
ing our deficits by transferring expenditure
to loan account, and putting men to do
unproductive “relief work” instead of pay-
ing them a dole out of taxation. State
Treasurers point—with what they profess
is pride—to the wonderful improvement in
their finances. For the first six months of
this fiscal year, N. S. Wales Premier
Stevens says, his deficit was only two mil-
lions. It is to be hoped he does not be-
lieve it. At any rate, the plain truth is
that during this year another seven mil-
lions will be charged up to loan account;
and there is no question that at least three-
fourths of this is camouflaged deficit. Is
it any wonder that the directors of the
Commonwealth Bank, who are merely trus-
tees for the public whose money they hold,
were “concerned over the constant and con-
tinuing expenditure by State Governments
on loan works which are at best of a dubi-
ously reproductive character, and which
may constitute a heavy charge on Govern-
ment finances in the future”?
There. never was a time when an excuse
was not forthcoming for a loan policy.
There never was a time which was not
different from all other times, so that bor-
rowing was justified if it was never justified
before. During the war we borrowed and
spent lavishly on loan works because trade
was disorganised and it was necessary to
provide work for men who might otherwise
be idle. After the war we borrowed and spent
lavishly because it was the least we could do
for returned men. A little after that there
was great distress in England, and S. Aus-
tralia and some others borrowed heavily to
open up country in order to absorb immi-
grants. We have borrowed when money
was dear because our people wanted assist-
ance and when it was cheap because it
would be stupid to miss so good a chance.
The result has been always the same—to
leave the people a little worse handicapped
to face the future. The more we have bor-
rowed the more we have had to tax our-
selves to pay interest that has not been
earned. State taxation in Australia in 1913-
14 was £1 ss. lid. per head; in 1929-30
which was just before the extra relief taxa-
tion was imposed—it was £5 ss. 6d. per head.
This is State taxation alone; and the States
do not carry one farthing of the expenditure
on the war, nor pay one farthing of the
interest on the war debt.
And that is the policy which we are con-
tinuing to-day. Already, as we have seen,
we have contracted a floating debt of 90
millions since the depression started; at
4 p.c. all round this will mean a perpetual
burden of £3,600,000 a year upon this ill-
treated country. W'e are in the grip of a
drug: the more we take the more we want,
and the harder it is to leave off the habit.
In the end, of course, it is not at all
possible to leave off; and then there is a
tragedy. We are getting to that stage very
fast. In N. S. Wales recently Mr. Lang
was quite frank about it. “You can’t pay
everybody,” he said; and he defaulted on
his overseas interest dues. When he was
stopped from following that course he tried
another: he proposed a 10 p.c. capital levy.
Those proposals were rightly blocked. But
what are \ye offering in their place? We are
not facing our troubles at all—we are merely
pushing them on to somebody else, just as,
it is time, our fathers pushed their troubles
on to us, with the result that, whereas they
paid £1 ss. lid. per head in State taxa-
tion, we were paying £5 ss. 6d. even in
1929-30.
We blame the politician; and he is to
-blame. His business is to get votes; and
he has found that the easiest way is to
buy them with the people’s own money.
But if a buyer is a rogue, is that any
reason why the seller should be both rogue
and fool into the bargain? If the public
punished the politician who loaded the
people with an unproductive debt instead of
rewarding him, this loan-drugging would
soon be stopped. We tell one another that
the politician who refused to go crooked;
the politician who refused to charge unpro-
ductive “relief works” up to loans; who
refused to have deficits; who said that our
only hope was to live within our means —
we tell ourselves that this prodigy would be
tossed out at the very first opportunity.
But is that at all certain? When George
Turner became Premier and Treasurer of
Victoria in September, 1894, Melbourne was
in an infinitely worse condition than any
city of Australia is in to-day. Politicians
had been toying with the situation just as
politicians are toying with it now. Turner
argued that if the Government would show
that it was determined to honestly balance
its Budget, confidence would come back in
a flood. There was a sharp pinch; but
Turner held on. In 1895 his total loan
expenditure was only £218.000: the next
y#ar it was no more than £276.000. By that
time there was no question about the re-
sults. With one break of a few weeks
George Turner remained Premier and Trea-
surer until 1901; and when the first Fed-
eral Ministry was then forihed, there was
no question about the Treasurership—it
passed almost automatically to him.
It may be that the man who would
follow the same policy to-day would crash;
it may be that to-day it is necessary to buy
votes even though we pass the bill on to
the next generation to settle. But if we
accept that as the fact, then we shall have
to realise, too, that democracy has broken
down. The only alternative is a despotism
of some kind—Sovietism, perhaps, or Fas-
cism. Rather than either of these, isn’t it
worth while trying to save democracy—self-
government ?
N.S.W. LEG. COUNCIL REFORM.
At the referendum on the reform of the
Leg. Council there really will be two ques-
tions before the people of N. S. Wales:
(1) Do we need a Second Chamber of any
sort? (2) If we do, can this proposed
Chamber do the work which a Second
Chamber should do?
It has been argued that a Second Chamber
is either redundant or mischievous—redun-
dant if it says “Aye” to the Assembly’s
“Aye,” mischievous if it doesn’t. Now, what
are the facts? In a democracy the voice
of the people is the voice of God. No
House, therefore, can have the right to veto
the clear voice of the people. But how do
we reach the clear voice of the people? A
Chamber of Parliament is a makeshift. In
despair of getting the whole body of the
people to assemble and discuss public ques-
tions and pass judgment upon them, we
have hit upon a plan which we hope will
answer the purpose generally. But we can-
not claim that it is infallible. On the con-
trary, we know that a House chosen under
it is so liable to get out of step with the
people that we have made it a rule that
every member shall go back to the people
once in three years at the most. And even
then democratic peoples have grave doubts
about the representative character of an
elected body, wherefore they have set up
at various times and places the referendum,
with initiative and recall. The whole mean-
ing of it is that we know our popularly
elected Parliament isn’t the real thing, but
is liable to mistake or misconstrue the will
of the people, so that democracy demands
that safety appliances shall be added.
As the years have gone by, the need of
these safety appliances has become greater
and greater. At the outset it is possible
that every member elected to Parliament
thought only of the public good. But other
considerations presently offered themselves.
Men became professional politicians, de-
pendent upon Parliament for their living.
Is it possible to believe that in such circum-
stances members think only of the people
and not at all of themselves? Is it possible
to believe that, in the struggles of parties,
electoral boundaries are not gerrymandered
to gain for the ins an advantage and to put
the outs at a. greater disadvantage? There
should be no need for a Second Chamber,
just as there should be no need for safety
appliances in lifts, mining cages and else-
where. But so long as man is liable to err
and be swayed by self-interest, so long are
accidents possible; and so long as accidents
are possible, so long will prudence call upon
us to put in safety appliances, in lifts and
legislatures alike.
Granted, then, that the preservation of
our self-governing rights calls for a Second
Chamber, can this one that is proposed for
N. S. Wales do what a Second Chamber
should do? The right functions of a Second
Chamber were laid down by the Bryce Con-
ference in England: (1) The examination
and revision of bills brought from the other
House; (2) the initiation of bills dealing
with subjects of a practically non-controver-
sial character, whose passage might be ex-
pedited by this prior discussion; (3) the
interposition of so much delay (and no
more) in the passing of a bill into law as
may be needed to enable the opinion of
the nation to be adequately expressed upon
it; and (4) full and free discussion of large
questions, such as those of foreign policy,
at moments when the popular House may
happen to be so much occupied that it
cannot find sufficient time for them. The
Second Chamber proposed for N. S. Wales
will be elected, on a system of proportional
representation, by members of both Houses.
Of its 60 members the first 15 chosen will
be for 12 years, and other fifteens for nine,
six and three years respectively. After these
first ballots members will be elected —by
the two Houses voting together—for 12
years. Now. if a Chamber of this character
had the power to absolutely veto the deci-
sions of a Chamber fresh from the people,
The Bulletin would say there was no room
for it in our system. But the power of
the proposed Chamber stops far short of
that. Bills appropriating revenue or moneys
for the ordinary annual services of the
Government do not depand on the Leg.
Council for their passage. In regard to
other bills, including taxation measures, no
more power is given to the Council than
to interpose sufficient delay to enable the
opinion of the people to express itself. If
the Assembly passes a bill and the Council
rejects it, it may be sent again to the
Assembly; if the Assembly again passes it
and the Council again rejects it, a con-
ference is held. If the Council still insists
that the bill should not be passed, then
the matter goes to the people for final
decision.
In the old days the Second Chamber was
the special guardian of the rights of Pro-
perty. We see that in the property franchise
still in operation in some of our States.
But the newer Second Chambers have no
such purpose, and therefore no such fran-
chise. Their purpose to-day, under our
changed circumstances, is to safeguard not
property but the self-governing rights of
the people. There never was a thing worth
stealing which nobody ever tried to steal;
and the powers and privileges entrusted to
Parliaments by the people are veiy well
worth stealing—especially in these days
when they control the spending of so many
millions. Just as Property once' demanded
that safeguards should be set up to protect
its interests, so to-day Democracy demands
that safeguards shall be set up against the
misappropriation of its rights. The Second
Chamber which will be created under this
law is not in all respects the Chamber which
The Bulletin would have set up. But the
time to quarrel on that account is definitely
past. It is sufficient that two things are
proved: One that safety demands a Second
Chamber; the other that the proposed
House answers the requirements of a Second
Chamber. Those who desire to keep in
their own hands the right and the power
to govern themselves will therefore work
and vote for the bill. Those \yho despise
the people and, for personal gain or other-
wise. desire to be in a position to rob them
of their self-governing rights will vote
against this bill and the democratic safe-
guards it sets up.
THE FARMER’S DAY.
Thirty years ago the poor cocky was the
same pretty well everywhere. When we
wanted anything from him he was the back-
bone of the country and the land he worked
was the source of all wealth and so on; at
all other times he was a likeable old hay-
seed who could be taken down for any-
thing and fobbed off with anything. He
was not organised either politically or
otherwise. Certainly he had a few bureaus
and things, but they were chiefly designed to
help him grow a bit more so that he would
have a bit more for others to take from him.
Even if he was a farmer in a pretty big
way he was liable to live in a humpy
Which the city dweller would think none too
good for his dog; the farmer’s wife lived
without conveniences which the poorest city
laborer’s cottage possessed; and on the rail-
ways he was given rolling stock which had
become too dilapidated for city people’s use.
Then things began to happen. The country
—every country—became criss-crossed with
railway lines. The motor-car left off being
a luxury and became a necessity. Tele-
phones were installed everywhere, and the
radio and the airship followed. Agricultural
schools and demonstration farms were
dotted over the land. The farmers had
been scattered units, without a common
policy, and inarticulate even if they had
had a policy. Facilities for travel and inter-
course brought them together; conference
gave them common policies and a confi-
dence they had never had before. When
the historian goes back over the period
through which we have been passing,
especially since the war, he will be driven
to conclude that one of its most important
features was the efnergence of the farmer as
a great political force.
It is not merely that large and influential
Country parties have come into being. In
Australia we have an exchange- rate of
125. For many years our £ had been worth
practically the same as the £ sterling. Then
some people persuaded themselves that it
would be a great thing for the farmer (in-
cluding, of course, the grazier) if our £ was
depreciated; and the thing was done, though
a quarter of a century ago it would have
been regarded as utterly preposterous, more
especially as the importer had in the first
place to provide the bonus. For two years
Maoriland would have nothing to do with
any such scheme. Then, as we saw a month
or so ago, the pressure which the farmers
were able to exert became too strong for
the Government and it gave in, even though
its surrender cost it the services of its ablest
member. The sugar and the butter pro-
ducers, living closer together and therefore
being better organised than the wheat- and
woolgrowers, got in earlier with their
bonuses. It is not a question whether they
deserve them or not. The point is that
they are all able to command things these
days which they could not even have
dreamt of so lately as 25 years ago.
The effects of this emergence are going
to be very far-reaching. In the United
States and Canada the wheat-farmers during
the past few months have shown that they
are prepared to go a long way to get what
they believe to be justice. What is justice
in this matter it is hard to say; but they
can at least make out a good case that
what they have had isn’t justice. Their
position is probably very much the same as
that of our own men—producers of one of
the world’s prime necessities, yet compelled
to work, year in and year out, for a wage
which the hitherto much better protected
city worker would not look at. It seems
indeed as if the major conflict ahead is
between these two. While in December
the price of wheat was 23 p.c. less than it
was in 1911, the average price of non-rural
commodities was 75 p.c. more than it was
in 1911. This means that, whereas the
wheat-farmer now gets for what he has to
sell about 15s. 6d. for what in 1911 he got
205., for what he has to buy he has to pay
355. It may be, he says, that he has been
producing too much; but he believes that
the most of the great difference between
his prices and the industrialists’ is due to
the latter’s superior organisation. There
seems no doubt at all that he will try to
meet that by organisation of his own. Who
will suffer in the clash only time will tell.
Up to now the man in between seems to
have suffered the most.
The same thing is happening in Russia,
and is, if the truth were told, probably
threatening the entire Soviet fabric. On
this subject the latest Memorandum of the
Birmingham University Bureau of Research
is very interesting. In the Soviet Republics
there are 162 million people, of whom no
less than 133 millions are country dwellers,
the vast majority of them peasants—mostly
peasant farmers. These are not Commun-
ists; and when an attempt was made by
“the workers” (as distinguished from “the
peasants”) to compel them to produce food
for public requirements according to a
schedule, they simply failed to grow more
than enough for their own needs. The
answer to that (1931) was wholesale collec-
tivisation of farms. The memorandum—
the bureau has no politics—declares that
this has failed. “The fields in Russia,” it
says, “have never before been as over-
run with weeds as they are this year. In
some regions flour is unobtainable even at
a price 100 times higher than in pre-war
clays. Throughout the country the supplies
of meat, milk and butter are very scarce,
and there is an acute shortage of bread and
potatoes.” It is obvious, the bureau finds,
that the Soviet leaders did not realise how
dependent the industrialisation of the. coun-
try was on an increase of grain and other
foodstuffs; the breakdown of the plans for
the one means the failure of the plans for
the other, wherefore “the fight for indus-
trialisation has been superseded by the fight
for grain.”
JAPAN AND ITS ARMY.
The writer, Dr. Arthur Torrance, has
been with the forces in Manchuria,
whither he was sent by the Pacific
Institute of Tropical Medicine to assist
in dealing with an outbreak of plague.
It is not an exaggeration to say that a
state of tension exists among the Japanese
not unlike that which prevailed in the
United States during the exciting days of
America’s entrance into the Great War.
There is indeed a similarity in the rumble
behind the two disturbances. It was the
inhuman acts and atrocities which enemy
forces perpetrated upon non-combatant
workers and defenceless women and children
that whirled America into that other fray.
Is there not some justification, then, for
Japan taking her present stand when roving
Chinese soldiers are plundering a country
and viciously destroying by fire what they
cannot carry away? We know that much
of the world was terribly impatient at
America’s inaction. Now, in the same way,
it angers the Japanese mind, which has been
inflamed by reports of atrocities consum-
mated with ghastly horror, that America
and other nations of the world will not
accord the Japanese Government full justi-
fication for its military activity. The
Japanese believe that, just as American
youth responded to the call to the colors
to save democracy and make the world a
better place to live in, so America should
join to crush this ill-governed Chinese army
and protect Japan’s “life-line.” And that
is apart altogether from Japan’s claim to a
right to protect her investments, amounting
to billions of dollars.
Practical evidence of this emotional re-
action among the Japanese populace is
revealed by the statistics of the support
given to the fund for the benefit of sick
and wounded soldiers. This fund, provided
chiefly by street collections and running to
millions of yen, is being used to supply
field canteens with comforts such as warm
drinks and cigarettes—all distributed free.
Apart from these monetary contributions
nearly a million and a half “gift bags” have
been handed to the troops, along with
many steel helmets and several light
machine-guns. Even as I write, from my
hotel window a.t Mukden I can see a park
crowded with local Japanese waving their


crimson suns to give welcome to two air-
planes which have been dedicated to army
ambulance service. The machines have been
purchased with the contributions of school-
children all over the Empire.
Somehow we who have been brought up
in America do not think of the Japanese
as reacting to things in the same way as
we do ourselves. There is no difference.
The human heart-beat is always the human
heart-beat. They have the same anxieties
that beset us at like times; the same
poignant sorrows. Whenever the newsboys
come ringing their bells there is the same
agonising fear that another battle has taken
, its frightful toll of lives dear to us; each
. time a Red Cross train arrives at Mukden
with the dead and wounded, the station
platform is crowded with fathers, mothers
and sweethearts who are numb with pain
as they wait in a torture of suspense to
learn if this one or that has been called
upon to pay the last penalty of war.
But they are loyal beyond all question.
Every little while one hears of some inci-
dent that tells of the depth and the height
of their patriotic spirit, and shows how
determinedly each one forges on to pay
what he regards as his debt of duty.
On a day early in October a taxi stopped
in front of an Imperial Army recruiting
station in Tokio. A huge-bodied young
Japanese stepped out and entered to offer
himself as a member of the Expeditionary
Force. The recruiting officer recognised him
as the giant wrestler Onsushiyama, who, at
the moment, was the greatest sensation in
Japan’s professional wrestling circles. Every
schoolboy knew of his skill and strength.
The officers were proud of the new candi-
date and proceeded to put him quickly
through the examination; and confidently
the youth smiled as he submitted to what
he thought was merely a routine. Was he
not Onsushiyama? Yet half an hour after
he had so nobly appeared at the recruiting
office he departed sad and dejected, still a
civilian. The astonished doctors had been
obliged to turn him down as physically
unfit. The newspapers next day announced
to a wondering public that the army had
been forced to reject the famous athlete
because his training had over-developed the'
muscles of his arms, rendering him unable
to effectively use a rifle.
Onsushiyama never returned to his train-
ing mat or his favorite haunts. As if the
October sunshine had swallowed him, he
disappeared. None of his fellow-wrestlers
knew his whereabouts. For weeks there
was much excitement over the mystery, and
then Onsushiyama took one of the byways
to the forgotten things. There was a sus-
picion that he had slipped off and com-
mitted hara-kiri.
One day I was on the Mukden railway
platform as a casualty train pulled in. Close
by one old man knelt beside a quiet form
around which was wrapped the red-sun flag
of Japan. Gathered about the mourning
figure was a little assembly of military men,
one of them a staff officer. The latter was
reading a report of the heroism of the dead
man and a recommendation that a post-
humous citation should be marked upon his
record. My companion of the Red Cross
touched me upon the arm and led me over
to join the group, and in a whisper told
me that here was Onsushiyama. He had
left in secret, 4 to be brought back once more
to public acclaim. When he found he could
not get into the army he had gone to Man-
churia and volunteered as a helper in the
medical corps. In the battle at Tsitsihar,
where he had received his death-wounds,
he had come upon bandits who were pillag-
ing dead and dying soldiers, and with a
rifle snatched from a dead soldier’s hands he
had killed five of them. The muscles that
kept him from manipulating a rifle in the
approved army way had not kept him from
doing fine service with one in the end.
He had found his place. Willingly he had
ceased to be a personage and had become
a cog in the great army machine. And
therein lies, I think, the secret of the
Japanese success against the Chinese failure.
MUKDEN.
ARTHUR TORRANCE.
SIX MONTHS’ TRADE.
It is still not certain that our surplus of
exports this year will pay our interest bills.
For the first six months we were £9,526,000
to the good; and 19 millions for the full
year would be about eight millions short
of enough to pay charges on our public
debt alone. But things should not be as
bad as that. There was a great burst of
importing a few months ago; but it seems
now to, have eased off. For November total
merchandise imports were £5,662,000; for
December £4,374,000. The current half-
year’s imports may be reasonably expected
therefore to be a few millions less than the
first half-year’s. On the other hand exports
should be about three millions more (July
and August are, as a rule, the thinnest
months of the year, and there is a record
wheat harvest to be shipped this half).
This, then, is the position. If we doubled
the first six months’ surplus we should be
about 10 millions short of enough to pay
our bills, public and private. Increased
exports should give us three millions, leav-
ing us seven millions to make up by a
saving in imports. This would mean that
we should have to average for the current
six months a trifle over a million less than
last half-year’s; and as last half-year’s
average was £5.060,000, an average of more
than four millions this current half will
put us on the wrong side.and Compel us
to draw upon our reserves in London.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Maorlland’s New Party.
Though it has never been defined with
absolute clearness, the line of cleavage in
Maoriland’s practical politics has always
lain between town and country, and the
lately-formed “All New Zealand” party is
quite definitely one that espouses town
interests. As all disinterested observers ex-
pected, in the light of past experience, the
coalition of town and country represented
by the Forbes-Coates alliance soon fell
under fhe domination of the rural side,
which scored its first big victory when it
compelled Forbes to agree to a compulsory
boosting of the exchange rate on London.
Since then the farmers’ party has won all
along the line. Gordon Coates has been
appointed Minister of Finance. This is his
first experience of the job. When Prime
Minister he had the benefit of Downie
Stewart’s services at the Treasury, but that
cautious gentleman’s influence did not pre-
vent him adding £50,000,000 to the national
debt in 3? years, in pursuance of a “great
public works programme” that made much-
abused Vogel look like a skinflint. Now
his first Budget anticipates a deficiency of
£9,850,000, to be reduced to £4,500,000 by
means of economies and new taxation. New
taxation includes a 5 p.c. sales tax, which
the city folk hate like poison. As Downie
Stewart, now the Government’s candid
friend, has shown, £4,600,000 of the antici-
pated gross deficit is due to exchange, the
effects of which, says the lawyer from Dun-
edin, are “direct, immediate, enormous and
inescapable,” while the benefits to be de-
rived are “distant, doubtful and specu-
lative.” The cost of this enterprise on
behalf of the man on the land, Coates has
made it very clear, is to be defrayed as far
as possible by the urban population. There
is to be an immediate inquiry as a prelude
to paring down the tariff, as promised at
Ottawa. Coates says the country cannot
afford tariffs which increase the cost of
farm production. Furthermore, though the
railways are still more of a liability than
an asset, there has been a 15 p.c. cut in
freights—on farm products only. Mean-
time the position and prospects of the
68,000 unemployed don’t seem to be im-
proving.
In the House the position of the coali-
tion is, at the moment, safe enough. It
can command a comfortable majority be-
cause several of those of its members who
disagree with its financial policy continue
to vote with it, the only alternative being
to give a mandate to Harry Holland and
his Laborites, whose recipe for ending the
depression is very similar to Lang’s. But
in the electorates the coalition has lost
practically all the support that formerly
was given to the Forbesite members of the
combine. With the formation of a new
party, both anti-coalition and anti-Labor,
opponents of the Coates policy within the
coalition will be encouraged to work for a
dissolution. The present Parliament has
added a year to its own life, and normally
there should not be an election till the end
of 1935, but if the pro-farmer policy, in-
cluding the exchange experiment, doesn’t
speedily produce, the results aimed at, the
Administration may be wrecked on the rock
of finance. It has alienated the sympathies
of the Associated Banks, and its own Re-
serve Bank, even if it can be established
in time to give some assistance, is not
likely to be strong enough to save the situ-
ation.
♦
Gold and What it Can’t Do.
South Africa, after two years’ hesitation,
lately abandoned gold payments; and the
step has been followed by what is described
as this century’s greatest boom in “Kaffirs.”
Mineowners of the Union have long been
urging the Government to follow sterling.
They saw that if they could depreciate the
local currency to the level of the English
£, they would be getting approximately
one-third more for their gold; and if local
costs did not increase, then the whole 33 i
p.c. would be profit. Not very many
countries now stand by gold; but the U.S.A.
and France are among them. One effect
is that the English £, or sterling, which
on a gold basis was worth 4.86 U.S. dollars,
is now worth only $3.43; and instead of the
£ sterling being worth 124.21 French francs,
it is worth only 87. So for a given quantity
of gold the S. African owner gets £486 for
what he formerly got only £343. If he can
continue to pay his wages, etc., at the old
rate and sell his product at the new, then
he is probably quite right in saying that
many millions of tons of ore hitherto un-
profitable will pay to work; and, assuming
the same rigidity of costs, millions of tons
of ore which gave a small profit hitherto
will give a large one in future.
In Australia there is something still more
to our temporary advantage. Here we have
not been content to follow sterling; we
have depreciated our currency below sterling
by manipulating the exchange. So while
the £ sterling is still worth $3:43 instead
of the old $4.86, the Australian £ is worth
only $2.73; the gold for which we formerly
got £273 in Australian paper to-day brings
us £486. Quoted per ounce, gold is worth
£6 os. Dd. in sterling; in Australian money
£7 9s. 9d. The effect upon Australian gold
companies’ finances is astonishing. Sons
of Gwalia showed for 12 months to Dec.
31 a working loss of £5803. reckoning gold
at the old rate; the premium turned this
into a profit of about £125,000.. In the
same way Boulder Perseverance’s loss of
£15.605 was turned into a profit of £111,231.
It is not surprising in such circumstances
that the prospector is everywhere. Wd
are told* that there is going to be such
an increase in the production of gold as
the world has never seen.
But those who think that that is going
to save the world-situation will be very
sadly disappointed. It is quite a mis-
take to assume that there is a shoxtage of
gold in the world. There was never as
much. The increase in the last 50 years
has been prodigious; indeed, S. Africa alone
has produced more within that brief
period than all the mines of all the world,
including all the fabulous gold rushes, pro-
duced in more than three thousand years.
The world is simply reeking with money.
In the U.S.A. the banks are holding over
500 million dollars more than their re-
quirements—“enough to support a volume
of bank credit approximately 5000 million
dollars larger than at present,” one autho-
rity lately declared. There can be only one
explanation—we have lost confidence in our-
selves and especially in one another and in
the future; and until that is restored, all
the gold-digging in the world will not
bring us prosperity. How it is to be re-
stored is not the subject of these few
remarks. It. can, however, be said that it
will probably be done best, not bjr any
one great action, but by a multitude of
small ones, just as shattered health is most
surely restored inch by inch, day by day.
♦
Italy Points the Way.
The Italians have the right idea. They
have set up an Institute of Industrial Re-
construction with power “to make loans to
distressed industries and wind up moribund
concerns without undue distress to credit-
ors.” The institute was authorised to raise
funds by means of premium bonds. With
thig immediate result, as the cableman re-
ports:—
The loan of £11,000,000 has been over-subscribed.
It is in the form of premium bonds issued at 91,
bearing interest at 41 per cent., and redeemable in
20 years. They carry large prizes.
Premium-bond issues devoted to indus-
trial reconstruction or the building and
maintenance of hospitals and schools would
be a hundred times better for Australia
than the lotteries which infest it. In the
great majority of cases a man who buys
£5 or £lO worth of lottery tickets loses his
money. If he put the same amount into a
premium bond he would get it back, plus
interest, and meantime have his flutter as
well—a periodical chance of drawing a big
prize out of the 1 p.c. p.a. or more set
apart for redemption of bonds. He would
not need to maintain huge lottery staffs nor
to wear out shoe-leather tramping in and
out of lottery buildings—a daily spectacle
in three capitals, and presently to be wit-
nessed in a fourth (Perth), and one which
makes a poor impression on strangers in
the land who may be thinking of investing
overseas capital and employing Australian
labor. Nor would subscribers to premium
bonds drift into the reckless state of mind
which the lottery habit engenders, nor—
with a negotiable security in their posses-
sion, instead of a pyramid of lottery tickets
that drew blanks —would they be easy prey
for a gang of political adventurers with a
plan for plundering the thrifty and calling
it by some high-sounding name.
The Loan Council has given its word
that it will go on the open market for what
it requires next year instead of biting the
ears of reluctant banks. Yet its last flota-
tion was a failure. It ought to try at least
one premium-bond issue before risking a
repetition of the spring fiasco. Probably
if premium bonds were available proprie-
tary-racing companies, tin-hare shindykits
and bookmakers, registered and illicit,
would suffer, as well as lotteries, but the
country would gain.
4
Trouble Under the Cocoanuts.
“Feng-Shui” on the position in Java: —
We had a permit from the Dutch Resi-
dent, nevertheless we had to cool our heels
outside the entrance to the Susuhunan’s (or,
for brevity’s sake, Sunan’s) kraton for an
hour, for one may not crash the gates of
the spiritual ruler of 40 million Javanese
as if one were a London peeress. Inside
the kraton were 10,000 of the Sunan’s re-
tainers and 3000 of his wives—a small city
and one entirely occupied with eating, drink-
ing, sleeping and intriguing.
Dancing girls began to arrive under the
main pavilion, and chairs were placed for
us, chairs with golden legs and arms and
pink satin seats, very court-like. The corps
of bayaderes swelled to a hundred, bare
shoulders and arms, dark sarongs and wide
belts, and cerise and yellow and orange
sarongs round their waists, very lovely.
When they sat on the pale grey marble floor
the bright colors were reflected, and the
effect was extraordinarily beautiful. The
gamelang struck up.
We watched the dancing for an hour and
were getting ready to go, when to our sur-
prise, the Susuhunan emerged. We had been
told that he never showed himself to Euro-
peans except in the presence of the Resident.
We stood and bowed politely to the fat
human god, who sprawled himself comfort-
ably on his throne, waved to us to resume
our seats, and immediately went into con-
ference with his cook about the vegetables
for his tiffin. Other functionaries brought
State papers, and all scuffled on their
haunches in approaching and departing from
him. It was hot and oppressive, the danc-
ing and the music were lacking in variety,
and the company of a god rvho may not be
spoken to is apt to become So
“How does one take one’s leave of a god ?” we
asked ourselves. But the Susuhunan settled
the question by sending his regent to inform
ns that he had placed a car, his baths out-
side the city and his seat 12 miles up in the
mountains at our disposal.
The Sunan is more than a pope—he is a god
made manifest and the symbol of the national
soul of Java; but it is a long time since
a Sunan functioned in the last capacity.
When Raffles governed Java for Britain,
sepoys persuaded the potentate that he was
a descendant of Ra, destined to restore the
Hindu empire; but Raffles suppressed the
revolt without severity. There was another
war in 1825, this time with the Dutch, and
fought with intense ferocity on both sides;
but after that the Sunans retired from mun-
dane politics, except those involved in the
business of keeping their wives in order.
The Dutch stripped them of their worldly
consequence, set them up in the kraton, and
gave them an opera-bouffe army and a pen-
sion of £70,000 with which to satisfy their
caprices.
If Javanese patriots look anywhere to-day
for a spiritual head it is towards Moscow,
though the Sunan might be a convenient
pawn in any national uprising. “The Jav-
anese are living in economic and political
slavery, and the fighting programme of
nationalism must be to obey Allah and fight
the capitalist and obey the Koran and
destroy those who enrich themselves at the
expense of their fellows,” says Sangadji,
leader of the Sarekat Islam, one of the many
revolutionary societies. In Java there are
800 people to the square mile, and they are
mainly agriculturists. No more unfruitful
field for the Marxian seed could well be
imagined, but a muddled sort of Communism
is the native reaction to the worldwide fall
in prices, which has produced the Nazi dic-
tatorship in Germany, the downfall of abso-
lutism in Siam, the invasion of China by
Japan and the Premiers’ Plan in Australia.
♦
White Australia.
Support for The Bulletin’s White Aus-
tralia policy comes from unexpected quar-
ters. The “Straits Times,” of Singapore,
quoting from a recent Bulletin article,
declares that “Australians are to be admired
for the manner in which they have evolved
the policy of a White Continent and stuck
to it,” and expresses the opinion that,
though the time may come when the White
Australia policy will again be questioned,
“under the conditions of to-day it is not
easy to argue against it.”
The present position in “the East” pro-
vides a complete answer to those who be-
lieve that cheap labor solves industrial
troubles. Given all the advantages of “the
East,” it is impossible to profitably employ
even one-half of the cheap labor that has
been introduced to Malaya, and its presence
is a serious embarrassment. Malaya, the
paper adds, is trying frantically to get rid
of the surplus; and it congratulates Aus-
tralia'upon having avoided the danger of
having a great foreign unemployed popula-
tion and the indignity of having to try to
push it out.
*
Depreciated Currency.
From the monthly (January) circular of the
National City Bank of New York (the bank
is one of the greatest in the world and its
circular has an international reputation):—
The theory that a country strengthens its
competitive position by depreciating its
money is deceptive and utterly unsound.
One country adopting this course may gain
a temporary advantage in export trade by
offering goods at the same nominal price
in cheaper money, but once the competition
is entered upon there is no stopping-place
short of the zero-point for all. It is the
most uncontrollable, demoralising and fruit-
less competition that can be imagined.
The price changes resulting from a de-
preciated currency may come so gradually,
especially in a time of depression, as not to
be noticed for some time, but this is pure
deception. In the long run all relations tend
to make corresponding readjustments,
although there never can be complete com-
pensation for the injustices that result.
Again a Yellow Peril!
From an old and trusted correspondent in
the Solomons:—
The “Yellow Peril” is again becoming
the darkest cloud over the white race. In
this little corner of ours Chinese trade goods
are fast chasing British, American, German
and other European-made articles off the
market; they are being sold at prices which
leave no room for white competition. The
European safety match, which costs about
(is. fid. per gross to land, has now to compete
with a Chinese variety costing about Is.
after paying a 25 p.c. duty. A torchlight
which, but for the brand, could not be
readily picked out from a bunch of American-
made torches sells at about one-third the
price. Attache cases, cotton goods, brass
screws, taps, and a host of other articles, in-
cluding, of course, silk goods, can be bought
at astonishing prices. European manufac-
turers have been flocking to China to utilise
the cheap labor offering; and these are the
firstfruits.
I am not preaching gloom. I advocate
looking at things and facing the consequences
as opposed to sitting down and tickling our
soles with a straw. Some means must be
sought to enlighten the people and show them
where they really stand, and in which direc-
tion the path leads. Surely some of the
money which we know is lying in banks,
and which will be useless to its present
owners once brainless revolution takes the
stage, could be wisely expended in the for-
mation and upkeep of a League of Enlight-
enment, or something of the kind, whose duty
it would be to lay before the people, per
medium of The Bulletin and other papers,
the economic facts which brought us to our
present plight, and indicate a road back.
Such a league must be entirely free of poli-
tical taint; its aim must be to put confidence
and co-operation in place of mistrust and
antagonism, industry in place of idleness,
and happiness in place of blank despair. But
first of all there must be a realisation of
this new peril.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP - - 2™ *X X
RESERVE FUND ItSqS?? iX X
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 Q
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Maior-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
Hon. ™ THuii onsLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX. „ n „ rTT7n c,rr
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world. .
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted..
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
ffl Fine Diamonds
i £2O
Fine Diamonds
£25
Fine Diamonds
£2B
SYDNEY;
13 HUNTER STREET
Sapphire & Diamonds
£2O
Fine Diamonds
£5O
BRISBANE:
116 QUEEN STREET
HARDY BROS. Ltd.
Diamond ENGAGEMENT
The Diamonds used in the Rings illus-
trated are guaranteed finest quality
Blue White Gems the illustrations
representing actual size.
Hand-made throughout with pure
Platinum Settings, these Rings repre-
sent the best value in Australia.
Write for a selection on approval.
A Catalogue of Bings, Jewellery,
Silverplate, Silver and Wedding Pres-
ents sent post free on request.
MELBOURNE:
298 COLLINS STREET
POLITICAL
POINTS
The four millions which the Premiers got
from the directors of the Commonwealth Bank
by rattling the thumbscrews will bring the
floating debt up to 90 millions —all incurred
since the depression began, and practically
all provided to meet deficits, plain or camou-
flaged. This is pure inflation. The pay-
ments are reflected in the swollen deposits of
the trading banks; but there is no wealth
to represent them. That no doubt is why
the Commonwealth Bank made such a hard
fight against increasing the present huge
total, and, as the custodian of the currency,
sought to extract from the Premiers an
undertaking to reduce it.
The “Lang Plan” wasn’t mentioned at
the metropolitan conference of the N. S.
Wales A.L.P., being regarded as one with
Nineveh and Tyre and the dead horse that
was tipped into the Hawkesbury from Lang’s
farm. The new Lang programme, unifica-
tion and the socialisation of credit, was con-
sidered in an uproarious fashion, and unifica-
tion was cruelly cut out. “A clique organised
“Stephen Sterio, a gipsy, born in Australia, has
been convicted at Auckland on several charges of
theft, and recommended for deportation. The police
stated that Sterio had visited four banks) and robbed
tile tellers, after mesmerising them.”
“Pot a man for mesmerisin’ blokes an’ pin-
chin’ from the banks? All right, I’ll
go back to Australia—and become
Prime Minister!”
in the name of socialisation,” as Lang’s
newspaper calls it, was in the ascendant;
it heckled Lang’s henchmen, Graves and
Keller, bombarded him with questions, and
flattened out a motion expressing blind con-
fidence in “Labor’s great leader.” Lang was
howled down at an A.L.P. conference when
Bailey (afterwards expelled) was struggling
to maintain bis position as boss. Sunday’s
experience was even more disconcerting.
It is because of the inflation which is in
progress through the issue of Treasury bills,
mainly to’ cover deficits, that little notice
need be taken of the increase of Australian
bank deposits, permitting the reduction of
deposit-rates to as little as 2 p.c. We might
give ourselves a cheer if this increase were
represented by wealth; but it isn’t —it is
represented only by hard-up Governments’
lOU’s.
Queensland being an easygoing country,
it was only natural that the Public Service
Commissioner should announce that officers
could take time off to see the Test match.
They would probably have taken it in any
case, but a little face-saving does no harm.
Asked if there was any limit to the vacation,
the commissioner (whose department is de-
scribed in the “Courier” as “the nerve-
centre and the storm-centre of the public ser-
vice”) said he would leave this to depart-
mental heads, but the absence of the State
toilers must not be so prolonged as to inter-
fere with public business. A delightful
touch. If half the civil servants in Australia
stayed away from work the public wouldn’t
notice it.
The “Worker” savagely attacks the Com-
monwealth Bank Board because it told the
spendthrift Premiers they could have no
more than £4,000,000. Considering what the
board did to mitigate the losses on its de-
ceased brother, the “World,” the A.W.U.
organ is ungrateful. It tells the painful story
in the very issue in which it accuses the board
of having “set up a dictatorship of the
money thugs.” When the A.W.U. chiefs de-
cided' to bring out the “World” they asked
for a Commonwealth Bank overdraft of
£lOO,OOO. Says Senator Barnes:—
They [the bank board] would not go beyond
£60,000. They gave as their reason that they
were so embarrassed by having to back both the
State and Commonwealth Governments that they
were at their wits’ end.
feo the A.W.U. chiefs accepted £60,000, spent
it and closed down. They would have lost
the £lOO,OOO if they had got it. And no
doubt they would have got it had their crowd
been able to “nationalise banking,” as they
call it.
“We will have to work steadily towards
the nationalisation of banking,” says Scullin,
who spoke for the A.W.U. at the Vic. Labor
conference. “We must have full and unfet-
tered control of the financial apparatus,”
says the “Worker.” “If the bank board
stands in the way, then the board will very
soon be ready for the undertaker.” The
“World” was “ready” first.
W. M. Shannon and T. B. Molomby,
second and third Vic. railway commissioners,
who are due to retire in April, are unlikely
to be asked to stay 'on ; each has reached the
retiring age and is entitled to a substan-
tial pension. Shannon lias been in the
department nearly 52 years, and Molomby
close on half a century—he got in the day
before the abolition of pensions. F. W.
Eggleston, sometime Attorney-General and
Minister of Railways, may get one of the
jobs, and a traffic man the other.
There will be a howl in Victoria if an
ex-politician is made one of the railway
chiefs, but the George case furnishes a pre-
cedent of a sort. George was appointed
Commissioner of Railways in Westralia
when M.L.A. for Murray. He served eight
years (1902-10), became member for Murray
again and put in another eight years as
Minister of Works.
Two R.A.F. officers have flown a Fairey
monoplane from England to. Cape' Town in
57)| hours, averaging close on 100 m.p.h. It
is a fine advertisement for British flyers and
’plane constructors; it is also another warn-
ing to Australia that the world is getting
smaller every year and that sea-isolation has
ceased to be a shield against attack. The
British experiment was expressly under-
taken to ascertain how far and how fast
troops can be transported over sea or hos-
tile territory. The answer, practically, is
6000 miles in days. Wordspinners at
Geneva are urging that “sanctions” should
be enforced against the Japanese if they
don’t get out of Manchukuo, and that, as a
Japanese delegate pointed out, might mean
another world war. It is only 3275 miles
from Tokio to Cape York (and the Caro-
lines, where Japan is firmly entrenched, pro-
vide a midway resting-place on that jour-
ney) ; only 3100 miles from Shanghai to
the Australian coast.
The N.S.W. Government is to lay out half
a million on 38 more silos, designed to
store million bushels in northern and
western wheat districts, and if the contracts
are shrewdly let it will be money well
spent. But the Government will have to
keep a bit in hand for other purposes—the
enlargement of lunatic asylums, for instance.
Agitators are launching a campaign for a
30-hour week, with a 25 p.c. increase of
wages. Persons who maintain that, with wheat
at 2s. 3d. and wool at ninepence or there-
abouts, Australia can afford to put another
fourth into the pay envelope for 14 or 18
hours’ less work should really be certified.
Langsters had their legs pulled badly in
the Beatrice Taylor case. They joined the
Communists in championing the alleged
martyr to free speech—which doesn’t exist
in Russia —and even supported the imbecile
proposal that harried Labor matrons who
had had their children hanging about for
seven weeks should keep them home when
the schools reopened as a protest against the
persecution of the lady. Now when Com-
rade Beatrice has been reinstated, it has
come out that at the Soviet conference which
she attended as a delegate from N. S. Wales
she referred with immeasurable scorn to
“the place-hunters” leading “reformist trade-
unions” and to the “Labor” Government,
holding the “Gabor” Government “entirely re-
sponsible for the present condition of the
working class.” The worst of it is that the
Langsters have to suffer in silence.
A solitary bomb dropped from a Dornier
flying .boat on a warship without anti-aircraft
guns settled a five-day mutiny in the- Dutch
East Indies Navy. Though a mere hundred-
pounder, it killed 18 mutineers and wounded
13, starting a fire to boot; and if it hadn’t
done its job plenty of 4001 b. bombs were
available. The incident suggests that raid-
ing ’planes could make a nasty mess of the
Sydney and H’awkesbury bridges if Australia
became involved in war again, and if the
enemy concluded, from the admissions of its
Defence Minister, that it would be a good
country to raid. When two R.A.A.F.
Wapitis were smashed in a collision the
other day (both pilots lost their lives),
Pearce said they could not be replaced, since
there was “absolutely no provision for sup-
plying the necessary new equipment.” He
added that “the Defence estimates have been
so reduced that scarcely a skeleton for nor-
mal protection needs has been left.”
South Australians recognise that Lionel
Hill has had a rough spin these last two
years, but they would think a great deal
more of him if he had decided to share the
fortunes of his followers instead of taking
himself off to the London office. And they
are disgusted to think that Hill is giving
himself a five-year term; they remember how
he roared when Barwell was appointed for
three years. Richards, who succeeds Hill
as Premier, and two of his Ministers are
applying for readmittance to the reluctant
A.W.U. A sign that nothing more will be
heard of their “party” after the general
election.
Lang’s newspaper blames the “diabolical
capitalist press” for “the cowardly disguised
attack launched against Labor’s leader.” It
is sure that “the haif-million people who, in
grave peril and anxiety, watched Labor’s
leader carry on his epic and magnificent fight
with the banks.... will reel before the humi-
liating spectacle of a gang of recent recruits
to Labor declaring by resolution that Mr.
Lang is no longer fitted to lead this fight.”
Stiff, the half-million, more or less), will
get over it. They have always hitherto
mastered their emotions when Labor flogged
its joss. Lang himself will swallow the
humiliation and go on being led.
The A.M.P., which has £19,000,000 out on
mortgage, and is increasing the amount all
the time, has to charge 5£ p.c. interest
because the Commonwealth and State taxes
on income from property are so savage. In
a letter to the Priminister it said it would be
content with 4 p.c. on all its mortgages on
real estate if what the 4 p.c. yielded were
deducted from taxable income. Alternatively,
it offered to reduce mortgage interest “by
such amount as the Governments may free
such income from taxation”; for example, “if
the rate is reduced by 4s. in the £ the A.M.P.
cut would be £1 2s. —to 4 2-5 p.c.” The
message carried a message of hope to every
mortgagor in Australia. It was written in
the expectation that it would be placed before
the Premiers’ gathering in Melbourne. Judging
by the reports, these gentlemen were too busy
loan-hunting to take any notice of it, and
10 days elapsed before the public was in-
formed, in a ten-line par., that the Prime
Minister had sent a polite reply promising
“careful consideration” of the matter by his
Government. It seems impossible to get
Australian politicians to take prompt and
bold decisions.
First, Uncle Sam wanted money. He was
told he couldn’t have money ; he could have
goods. But he didn’t want goods; he had
too much goods already. This looked like
a deadlock, and in the midst of it somebody
said “Cancel the debts and be done with it.”
But Uncle Sam hated to be guilty of any-
thing like that; and while he was waiting
for something better to turn up a new whisper
was heard : “Forgive ’em their debts if they’ll
Old Mother Hubbard
Went to the cupboard
A feed for her tyke to fix;
But never a shelf
Held aught but pelf,
And so the poor dog had nix.
buy our goods.” The idea tickled the fancy
of the heavyweight Senator Borah, who is
now making a policy of it: “Debt settle-
ments in return for trade concessions.” What
he hasn’t explained up to now is how the
countries that give the concessions—that
is to say, that buy the Yankee goods—are
going to* pay if , they haven’t got gold and
Sam, still doesn’t want their goods.
One of the terms to which the Loan Coun-
cil agreed, and about which the politicians
have since been very silent, was that half
of the four millious borrowed from the Com-
monwealth Bank would be repaid out of
the first loan raised by the Council in the
open market —and that, on present appear-
ances, can’t well be later than June.
The League of Nations has had no more
luck in weaning opium-smokers from their
drug than in convincing Japan of the eyils
of imperialism. In China the poppy is being
planted so extensively that army paymasters
use the product as currency. In Singapore,
where it is a Government monopoly, the
traffic accounts for nearly half the revenue;
of 600 million dollars collected between 1910
and 1930, 223 million came from the opium
business. Despite Government regulation a
million dollars’ worth of the sleepy poison
was seized from smugglers in one year, and
as a result of an inquiry 47 officials were
sacked. Yet the opium habit is decreasing,
despite the League’s failure, wherever the
native has opportunities of acquiring a taste
for alcoholic drinks or tobacco.
“The manager of J. T. Lang’s farm at Ebenezer,
Hawkesbury River, was fined £15 for depositing a
dead animal in a watercourse. Mr. Lang, questioned
by a constable, said there should be two horses on
the property. A search showed there was. only one;
a dead horse had been carried on a slide to the
water’s edge.”
GENTLEMAN FARMER: “Yes, we .had to get
rid of him, and I admit he does ‘hum.’
But wait till you see my other horse,
Socialised Credit.”
Three British renegades were among 28
men who have received heavy sentences, in
India for conspiracy to wage war against
the Empire. One, a Cambridge undergradu-
ate, gets 12 years’ hard labor. Evidence
showed, of course, that the movement had
been subsidised by Russia.
Reported that “the Commonwealth Public
Service Associations are preparing a monster
petition to Cabinet asking for a restoration,
in whole or part, of the old rates of pay.’’
It is asserted that “many officers have been
reduced to a much greater extent than any
-other section of employees subject to
awards.” Still, all things considered, the
petitioners were better off than any other
section, and they have kept their jobs,
whereas about a quarter of a million equally
deserving citizens have none. And they are
at least getting enough to make ends meet,
which is more than can be said of most
graziers and wheatgrowers. Moreover, they
enjoy superannuation privileges and tax
concessions denied to “any other section.”
Those at Canberra are exempt from State
income and unemployed-relief taxes. In
boom-time they were paid a so-called Can-
berra allowance, and .some of them have had
the confounded cheek to ask the Public
Service Arbitrator to give it <to them again.
“S. M. Herald” gives a list of direct taxes
payable in N. S. Wales by the nefarious
capitalist who carries on business in his
own name and is subject to maximum rates:
Federal income tax: Personal-exertion income, 7s.
6d. in the £. Property income, 9s. 6d. in the £ ;
£250 of income is exempt from special tax of 2s.
Federal land tax: Unimproved value to £75,00'0,
sd. in the £ ; in excess of £75,000, 9d. By way
of “robbing the workers,” tax due at these rates is
reduced 43J p.c.
State income tax: Personal-exertion and property
rate, 4s. 9d. in the £.
Unemployed-relief tax: Is. in the £.
Family-endowment tax: sd. in the £ on all wages
and salaries paid.
Sales tax: 6 p.c.
To these have to be added City Council and
water-and-sewerage rates (both high and
expected to go higher) and workers’-com-
pensation charges, which may work out as
stiff as the family-endowment tax. And,
though the “Herald” doesn’t say so, relief-
tax is demanded, not only on N.S.W. in-
come, but also on income from other States
and on what has to be paid to those States
and the Commonwealth in satisfaction of
their taxes —three at least. For the results
of this crazy policy consult the building and
factory statistics and the unemployed re-
turns.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
THE PERFECT LAMB.
“Did you ask dad, dear, and did he .behave like a lamb?”
“M'yes. Every time I opened my mouth he said ‘Bah’!”
“C.Q. : Melbourne Public Library, in
clearing out some shelves recently, found a
book called “Memory Culture.” ' The last
reader had left in it as marker a set of false
teeth.
“Doric ’: Gilbert Frankau slipped more
than once (B. l/2/’33) in striving for
accuracy m his novels. In his "So Much
Good, the heroine, a society girl, arrives in
Sydney and rents a flat at North Botany.
But a recent novel by Ethel M. Dell takes
the bun. Two of the characters are dining
at a select restaurant in Sydney, when noisy
roysterers enter. They are boundary-riders
who have come in from their stations for
lunch.
“Barangkali”: The Emden’s bell should
never have got as far as Garden Island (B.
8/2/’33). I was at Cocos when the Sydney
shot the German raider to pieces, and for the
part our staff played in bringing the engage-
ment to a successful conclusion we were
asked what we would like as a memento.
Some members wanted a pair of quickfirers,
but they were outvoted by those who wanted
tlie bell in question, the idea being that we
could use it as a messroom gong. Owing
to some misunderstanding we got neither.
The only souvenirs the Cocos cablemen
can boast at present are a small cabinet on
tin' messroom wall containing a picture post-
card of the Emden. a German sailor's cap-
band and three brass buttons.
* * * *
“Chevroford” : A motorist who hit a cow
in the Castlemaine (Vic.) district has in-
formed the local police
anonymously that he intends
to get satisfaction for the
damages he had to pay (£3O
10s.) by shooting 35 Stray-
ing cows and one calf, the
calf representing the odd
half-quid. These city chaps
rush at high speed through
a countryside where shire
councils lease grazing rights
along the roads, with the
result that any turn in the
track may present an in-
soluble problem composed of
a vehicle travelling at 51)
m.p.li. and a herd of cattle
disposed in a phalanx across
the route. Countrymen say
that motorists ought not to
drive so fast. City men
retort that fast driving is
what country roads are for.
However, if an epidemic of
cow-slaughtering breaks out
in the vicinity of Castle-
maino it oughtn’t to be long
before the obsessed avenger is landed in gaol.
* * s!c :K
“Ike Hollar”: Add this to the collection
of schoolboy howlers that get so near to
the naked truth. The question (with Papua
in mind) was “Name an Australian posses-
sion.” The answer came: “The national
debt.”
“P. Pawnticket”: The schoolboy howler
is not always the boy’s fault. There was
a mistake in the original typing of a ques-
tion paper with a result that completely
boxed most of the examinees; but a couple
of them heroically answered “What is a
taxidamist?” with “A taxidriver who
swears.”
* * • * •-!:
“Drummer”: If you want to keep a rail-
way carriage to yourself (B. S/2/’33) try
this method. A confederate is required, but
when you’re “on the road” it’s easy to obtain
one. All else that is needed is a pair of
handcuffs. When in a station, put them on
the other fellow and let him sit near the
door with his ornaments well displayed and
a hangdog look-—or the best he can do in
that direction —on his dial. It invariably
works, and as soon as the train moves on
the gyves are taken off until the next stop.
“Bruton”: The hunt for treasure supposed
to have been buried by seventeenth-century
Dutchmen on the Westralian coast (B
8/2/’33) is a reminder how much older, as
a sea-track, the western side of the continent
is than the eastern. Sydney antiquaries’
dispute occasionally about the ’probable site
of Forbes Sutherland’s grave at Ivurnell and
wnether he was the first Briton to be buried
in the country of which Captain Cook took
formal possession .in 1770. The bones of
hundreds of more or less venturous Hol-
landers were bleaching on the other side of
Australia long before Cook was born. In
1629 the mutinous supercargo Jerome Cor-
nelisz and his associates murdered 125 of
their own countrymen and countrywomen on
the Abrolhos islands. In the wreck of the
PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL.
THE PARISHIONER'S LITTLE DAUGHTER: “Does your daddy rehearse his sermons?”
THE VICAR'S DITTO: “Yes; mummy says it’s the only time daddy practises what he
preaches.”
Vergulde Draeck 118 lives were lost and, as
far as is known, 6S castaways perished
miserably. There were numerous casualties,
too, among the crews of the vessels that
made fruitless search for them. How many
Dutch ships that never returned met their
fate on that coast can only be dimly guessed
and there may have been Portuguese ones,
tOO, . Anyway if blood w-ere the price ot
admiralty, the Dutch had established a pretty
good title to this part of the world half a
century befoie Dampiei arrived, to descube
the land as dry and sandy and the inhabitants
as “the miserablest people in the world.”
Fortunately the Dutch hadn t formed any
higher estimate than Dampier s.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: There is no doubt whatever
as to Henry Lawson’s birthplace (B.
l/2/’33). At Forbes Courthouse, in the thin,
spidery hand of a Mr. Parker, then C.P.S. at
the Lachlan town, the poet’s birth is re-
corded. He is shown as the first child of the
marriage of Peter Lawson and his wife
Louisa, which occurred at Mudgee the pre-
vious year. Mrs. Lawson’s birthplace is
given as Alburv (N.S.W.) and her hus-
band’s as Norway; Henry is listed as born
on .Tune 17, 1867, at Grenfell.
* * * *
~ , in „ '.! ~ . .
5.0.8 : Whitehall attributes to
excess of Imperialism the action of the
recent Acting-Governor of the Ma State m
flying a Union Jack over the bonnet of his
car (B. 1/2/oo). But it is merely an
adoption of the naval custom of flying the
personal flag of a high official m the bows
of his boat on occasions of ceremony, and
it has been found useful ashore since the
motor-car displaced the horse for transport
of the elect. The flag gives early warn-
ing of an approaching potentate, and enables
guards of honor to come to the “slope,”
stray dogs to be shooed off and spokesmen of
committees to moisten their lips and rehearse
difficult phrases such as “auspicious occa-
j Oll ;»
%
“D.”: The inimitable A. B. Piddington,
now practising at the Sydney Bar, placed
an unfortunate cop under the harrow last
week in an “unseemly language” case. His
client was appealing against a conviction in
respect of remarks made about the Old
Testament in the Domain :
Witness said he had never read of Solomon’s
sacrifice of sheep and oxen. He was aware that
such rituals were observed in ancient times. He
did not know that it says in Exodus that it was a
duty to hand up the first-born son as a sacrifice
just as fruit would be handed up. He had never
heard of tlie man mentioned by S'amuel who was
smitten down by God for allowing the oxen to
stumble when drawing the sacred Ark. ■
How illustrative such a case is of Demo-
cracy's attitude towards speculative matters
in general! This policeman knows little
about the Bible except that he “believes in
it all implicitly.” So the Government puts
him up as censor of one who, whatever her
political merits or demerits may be, has
made a study of the Bible. It is the identi-
eal principle which has made a fool of the
literary censorship
... +
“Jeames”: A Sydney paper quotes the
late John Galsworthy approvingly:—
There should be a much more serious attempt
made to get children to pronounce their vowels
correctly. As a way of destroying class distinction
it beats all the others put together.
It shows what rubbish a great man can
write when he relies on wistful dreams in-
stead of on practical experience. Most of
our society folk—locally-educated Judges,
barristers, solicitors, doctors and their
families—have accents that don’t seem “cor-
rect” to their opposite numbers in Eng-
land, yet it doesn’t lessen the class gap
between them and their so-called social in-
feriors who have similar accents. Take them
for all in all, the educated classes in Britain
are better mixers than ours. They get on
splendidly with fellow-Britons and others
whose accents are not “correct.” One thing
only makes them, and everybody else within
hearing, annoyed, and that is to be compelled
to listen while the possessor of an accent,
whether Cockney, Australian or American,
tries to talk, as Galsworthy would say, “cor-
reedy.” Affectation—-the affectation of a
well-known type of London shopgirl and
Darling Point flapper—is one of the strongest
of all factors in arousing class hatred,
* * * *
“p_” . The o fg e i a i ol . gan of the N.R.M A.
which has a down on car-minders, cited a
q Ue er proof of their turpitude in a recent
j ssne _ correspondent parked liis car in
Martin-place and forgot to tip the minder
When 1 reached home x found petrol-tank cap
W as missing, and as I could not bring myself to
believe that it had fallen off, I was forced to the
conclusion that ‘Mr. Oar Minder’ was responsible.
Time passed, and he parked in Martin-place
again. Fearful of his tank cap he first “saw
that it was firmly in position,” then gave
the attendant a shilling and drove off.
When he next investigated it was gone again.
It reads like one of the yarns the old
“Watchman” used to print in order to prove
that R.C. s were supermen of crime. If this
caihmmdcr was able to get a petrol-tank cap
off twice running in crowded Martin-place
(once after the car had started) then he is
wasted at liis present dead-end job, and
snould be making a fortune in a profession
calling for supreme audacity and athleticism,
* * * *
“Nakh”: A German merchant, one-time
well known in Melbourne, who recently died
j n the Fatherland a few years short of the
century, was amongst those interned at
Liverpool (N.S.W.) in the early days of the
war . He was a passionate entomologist and
ou t 0 f regard for his age—he was then 75 —
j lc was a ]] oW ed to carry on his hobby. He
was an extraordinarily active man, and was
o ft en to be seen outside the camp pursuing
j nsec t s with a butterfly net, while a sentry
w jth a fixed bayonet pursued him.
* \ ... #
(ITI ' ~ . , , n - . , ~
Pawang : Chinese herbalists are not the
practitioners who suffering Aus-
Hah an s a: ‘ benefits of Onental wisdom. A
Professor who flourished until recently m
Richmond (vie.) advertised a magic, soap,
the secret of which had been revealed to the
proprietor by the witch-doctor of a Malay
tribe. The “professor” had noted that all
the women of this tribe were remarkably
slim, and inquiry elicited the fact that they
all made liberal use of the soap. The soap
was offered for sale in Melbourne at 15s. a
cake, and many ladies afflicted with adiposity
sought to avoil themselves of its mysterious
power. A specimen eventually got into the
hands of a university analyst, who discov-
ered that the ingredients were those of
common soap and the value about three-
pencc He also discovered, on paying a call
r „ , ~ ~ . , J Uj i
on the piofessoi, that lie vas a lady and
enormously fat. Incidentally, it is the rule
for Malay women to be slim and it is not
le ru |® or *bem to use s ° a P-
Chevroford ;I don t know who first sug-
S es ted planting trees m Collins-strfiet, Mef-
bourne, m spite of the opposition of shop-
beepers, but he was a public benefactor, and
the upper half of the thoroughfare as a result
a delight to the eye. It is now proposed to
extend the planting right down to. Spencer-
street, but, as it is difficult for civic mstitu-
tions to keep more than one idea in their
heads at a time, I fear that the trees selected
will be planes. The prejudice in favor of
these is purely conservatism, for there are
other trees just as elegant, and many far
more SO. What is the objection to the West-
ralian red-flowering gum? One is that it
has a ] ac k of uniformity, but that is the
objection of an arithmetician, not. an sestheti-
cian. It grows magnificently in .some of
the outer thoroughfares, and a double row
raising their scarlet banners all the way
from Swanston-strcet to Spencer-street
would make the Queen City of the South
more talked about than all the proposed
world-wide propaganda of the centenary
committee. If there is any technical objec-
tion to this magnificent gum, there can’t be
to every Australian tree.
HINTS FOR THE HIGH-HEELED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“As one with a knowledge of physiology, I cannot
see a girl walking down (Jollins-street in high heels
without thinking that, of all the methods of pro-
pulsion known in the animal kingdom, this is the
most ungainly.” —Professor Osborne, of Melb. Uni.
The flippered seals, emerging from the ocean,
The geese that string along the green,
disprove
Ideas about the poetry of motion,
It goes sans saying, in the way they
move.
My Bright Young Things, deem not tin: Prof,
unfeeling,
.To cloud your pretty brows ’tis like he's
loath ;
But when down Collins-street you go
a-heeling,
Such gawkiness at ev’ry step revealing,
He swears you beat them both.
He’s studied all the animal creation,
As zealous physiologists must do.
And marked their various ways of ambu-
lation,
From lurching hippo, down to bounding'
’roo ;
He knows the figure greater apes and lesser
Cut on the ground when once they leave
their trees ;
It staggers and it saddens the Professor
To find a modish flapper the possessor
Of uglier gaits than these.
When on their charms a mortal’s eye to
focus
Three goddesses essayed that Ida climb,
And at their trilbies brake like fire the
crocus
With other flora of the place and time,
Think not they hoofed it fashionably booted
Or shod, those ladies who were else
unclad
And paid their call on Paris birthday-suited.
Not much. They never could have skally-
hooted
Up hillsides if they had.
And when the beggar-maiden, artless rover,
ITer way into Cophetua’s palace horned,
And fairly knocked the Danish monarch over
With grace in rags and beauty unadorned,
Don’t tell me—-be the story fact or fable-
She would have found such favor in a
trice
If she had minced along with steps unstable,
Like some scared parrot on a polished table
Or (say) a pig on ice.
He’s studied ev’ry method of propulsion,
From waddling ducks’ to scurrying crabs’
detours,
And none there, is awakens such revulsion,
Girls, in his academic soul as yours.
A cat on heated bricks, he tells you plainly,
Makes scarcely such inelegant appeals;
No lumbering plantigrade is more ungainly;
It throws your figure out of gear insanely.
Come off those stilt-like heels !
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Nakhoda” : A droll mutiny has been pro-
vided by our friends the Dutch in the N.E.L
Inhere was disaffection among native
ratings in the navy. While the commander
and other officers were ashore in Sumatra
discussing the affair, the crew of the cruiser
De Zeven Provincien (6286 tons) seized
the ship and made for Sourabaya, Java. The
qommander and the officers on shore boarded
a steamer, the Aldebaran, and went in
pursuit, cruisers, submarines, flying boats
and minelayers joining in. Dutch discip-
line has never been of the iron variety. The
detachments of the fleet which visited Aus-
tralia a year ago were manned on the
THE WORM I ’ THE BUD.
DEAR OLD LADY (to gardener) : “I wonder you don’t get married
again, Sandy. You’ve a nice home, and all you want to
complete it is a wife. You know the first gardener that
ever lived had a wife.”
SANDY: “Quite richt, ma’am. But he didna keep his job after he
gat her.”
“divide and rule” principle. Ratings were
composed about equally of Christians and
Mohammedans, with probably a sprinkling
of pagans, and they came from every corner
of the far-flung archipelago. The white
element, as is usual with the Dutch, was
largely Eurasian. The Netherlanders hold
that in a crisis the Moslems would never side
with their Christian brothers, but economic
necessity is a great unifier. The Dutch East
Indian Navy was probably in its most secure
position in the days (not more than 25 years
ago) when white sailors and legionaries were
allowed to take their native women with
them when they embarked on a campaign.
*
“Pawang”: The report from India of a
new method of fighting malaria by prevent-
ing the mosquito from being infected by
human beings draws attention to the dis-
quieting fact that Sir Ronald Ross didn’t say
the last word on the disease, and that there
are more mysteries connected with it than
ascertained truths. For instance, nobody
yet knows why human beings do not get
malaria in small areas in China and other
places which are very malarious indeed;
why some people may remain exposed to
infection for years and never catch the com-
plaint, while their next-door neighbors or
even their wives may tumble over in the first
week;: why there are three types of malaria,
though they must have arisen from the same
common stock; why a type which is viru-
lent in one part of the world is mild in
another; why only one of the 20 or 30
varieties of mosquito carries the germ; why
in the Philippines it breeds only in fresh
water and in Malaya it will breed in water
that is partly fresh and partly salt; why the
carrier is always female, and why the lady is
a blood-drinker while her harmless mate is
a vegetarian. Another puzzle is why the
dreadful blackwater fever is associated with
malaria in one part of the world and not in
another and why the two are associated at
all. All these things show that, while Ross
did a great thing in putting humanity on
the right track, the road is of an infinite
length.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: A curious sidelight on the
ways of Australian universities —or on*' of
them, at all events —is shown in the follow-
ing newspaper commentary on a just-
deceased professor:—
The greatest tribute the writer knows to his
influence was that his lectures were never disturbed
by a “rag” of any sort.
The inescapable and probably quite correct
inference is that the Sydney Uni. professor
who can always preserve order while he is
essaying to instruct youth is a bit out of
the common. I have known masters at Eng-
lish public schools whose lives were ren-
dered miserable and whose teaching capacities
were reduced to a minimum because, mostly
out of pure good nature, they shrank from
punishing the unruly. Boys are quick to
detect any weakness of that sort and to
take cruel advantage of it. But the “rag-
ging” of English university lecturers, in my
time, at least, was an unknown pastime.
Most men were there, not because they had
to be (as in school classes), but because
they expected to derive some profit from
attendance.
❖ ❖ sjt s|:
“Ah Gee” : A Sydney contributor mentioned
recently that the order “No Parking Here”
opposite the door of Chief Justice. Street’s
Elizabeth Bay home 1 was habitually violated.
Well, I know at least one official order that
isn’t. It is to be found opposite the door of
Mr. McMahon’s taxation house in Hamilton-
street, and it reads, with singular appro-
priateness, “One Way Traffic.”
*-*-'*s
“S.T.S.” : In 1831. when South Australia
existed only in the minds of a few 7 enthusi-
asts in London, a Capt. Barker landed some-
where at the mouth of the Onkaparinga,
pushed inland into the hills, discovered the
Mount since named after him, reached the
Murray—and never returned. There is now 7
a thriving seaside town, Port Noarlunga, on
the beach that attracted him, and the S.
Aus. branch of £he Royal Geographical
Society has just erected a Barker cairn
there with a tablet saying that the pioneer
landed (from the Isabella) “hereabouts.”
* * * -i-
-“X.S.” : Community singing was put to a
new use in Melbourne recently. While 20
prisoners being
conveyed from the
Law iCourts back
to the Metropoli-
tan Gaol lustily
beefed out “Ole
Man River” and
other classics, two
of their com-
panions in misfor-
tune succeeded in
removing their
handcuffs and cut-
ting a hole in the
stout steel roof of
Black Maria. Ac-
companied by
strains of muffled
melody they forced
their way through
the opening before
the startled eyes of
passers-by, dropped
on to the roadway
and disappeared.
One is classified as
a dangerous crimi-
nal and the other
was serving three
years for factory-
breaking.
* * *
“Wep”: One
feature overlooked
in recent compari-
sons of Sydney
Bridge and Brook-
lyn Bridge is that
the footway on the
latter is in the
centre. Vehicular
traffic has the out-
side positions, and
the roads at both
ends of the bridge
are guarded day
and night by
police. Officers are
also stationed at
the piers. Undoubtedly the centre of these
abnormally high bridges is the safest part
for pedestrians.
* * * *
“Q.M.S.”: Tliei’e is no need for “One Pip”
(B. 4/l/’33) to bewail the extra fatigues
to be thrust on the British soldier by the
new uniform. My latest copy of the
“Tailor and Cutter” depicts an infantryman
in the new rig. It certainly looks ghastly,
for, apart from the dreadful waterproof deer-
stalker cap, the tie has been dispensed with
£,n, l the collar, attached to the shirt, is worn
open and studless after the fashion affected
by Sydney s beach knuts. This will not be
popular with Thomas A., for nothing gets
dirty and crumpled sooner than a flannel
collar which cannot be removed from its
basic shirt.
* * * *
“Whitehall”: Our Empire enthusiasts
have a disastrous habit of enthusing aboiV
the wrong things. It has been exasperat-
jngly noticeable during the Sydney campaign
in the interests of British films. Minister
for Education Drummond, in connection
with the screening of “Sleepless Nights.” re-
marked that more and more English p’etures
would be morally advantageous; they would
lessen the “stream of filth” now ‘pourin'*
from- the U.S.A. There is a censorship to
deal with filth, and, as Mr. Drummond would
know if he took a practical interest in films
(“I rarely get time to see one,’’ he con-
fessed), nearly all the films censored here
have been British. Miss Preston Stanley
president of the Feminist Club, under whose
auspices “Sleepless Nights’’ was screened
said: “British films should be fostered be-
cause Britain is the world’s moral centre
of gravity.” Actually, the distinction for
what it is worth, belongs to Mr. De Valera’s
section of Ireland, where there is such a
craze for morality that innocuous London
weeklies like the “News of the World” are
banned in Dublin. Practically all the novels
that Australia has censored in the past year
have been London publications, and, as a
Red Page writer suggested recently, a num-
ber haven’t been censored that well might
have been. The truth is modern England is
as tolerant of what people like Mr. Drum-
DADDY THOUGHT SO, TOO.
HIM: “After all, I think I’d be a fool to marry."
HER: “Yes — that’s what daddy told me.”
mond call “filth and immorality” as any part
of the world; America is squeamish by com-
parison. English literature hasn’t been so
preoccupied with sex, or so outspoken on the
subject, since the Restoration.
* * * *
“Magog” : There is an old story of a sentry
placed by Catherine of Russia to guard a
beautiful rose, in the Kremlin gardens. A
century and a half later sentries were still
doing duty on the same spot for no particu-
lar reason, until the post w T as abolished by
the last of the Romanoffs. London has just
discovered something of the same sort.
When the Tower Bridge, which opens to
permit shipping to na.ss up the Thames, was
completed in 3894, a tug with steam up was
stationed below 1 the bridge to assist shipping
if anything went wrong with the machinery
which opened and closed the big structure.
Nothing untoward over happened, but the
tug and the crew are there to-day. The
discovery that its upkeep costs £2500 a
year has led to the suggestion that it might
be done away with.
* $ $ $
“Din. Din” : As all good Moslems antici-
pated, Ivemal Pasha’s order that the Koran
be read in Turkish, and that services in
the mosques be conducted
in the same language, in-
stead of Arabic, has stirred
up a hornet’s nest. A re-
bellion against the hereti-
cal ukase broke out the
other day at Brusa, which
is the Adelaide of Turkey,
in that it is celebrated for
the number of its mosques
and the godliness of its
people. Ivemal has exe-
cuted a number of the ob-
jectors, but the opposition
is gaining ground. The
dictator will be lucky if he
is given the chance in the
long run to eat his words.
One may fight the world, the
flesh and the devil, but not
the church.
❖ Sfc *
“M or N”: Touching the
popularity of Gladstone as
an Australasian place-
name (B. 8/2/’33), the
habit of preserving British
Prime Ministers in our
maps and gazetteers seems
to be dying out. Besides
Gladstones, you will find
Palmerstons, Derbys and
Salisburys dotted around,
and I doubt if there is any
State that can’t show a
Beaconsfiold, if it is only
the label for a suburb. But
after last century the
vogue waned. I fancy
there is a solitary Asquith
somewhere, and there may
be a Balfour, but one looks
in vain for a Lloyd George,
a Bonar Law. a Campbell-
Bannerman. a Baldwin or
a Ramsay Mac. Certainly
this double-surname business, so marked of
recent years at Downing-street,- is something
of an obstacle; but other countries have got
over that. South Africa has a Harrismitli.
ip * * - IF
“Scrivener”: A controversy has been rag-
ing in the London press as to whether doctors
or lawyers are the more villainous writers.
As one who has been somewhat exposed to
both, I am inclined to give my verdict
against the doctors, who aggravate the origi-
nal offence by their recourse to dog-Latin.
Still, lawyers., especially barristers, have an
unenviable reputation as hieroglyphists.
Perhaps the outstanding instance was the
first Lord Lyttelton, who had a letter to
the “Times” returned to him with a note
by the then editor, Delane, saying no one
could decipher it. It later appeared that
the letter advocated the refusal of the fran-
chise to all persons unable to read under-
standingly and write legibly.
* * * *
“Brummel” : Broadway is making a bold
bid to supplant Savile Row as the hub of
perfect tailoring. It is going further, for
establishments have
now been opened
where a man can
go in through one
door and emerge at
another clad in
new and correct
raiment from socks 1
to collar-stud, and,
of course, boots.
These places are
run like the assem-
bling belts in a
motor factory. The
customer passes
from counter to
counter and new
glories are added
to his ensemble as
he goes. There is
no haggling over
prices, since every-
thing is included in
a lump sum. One
goes into a £lO
shop and when fin-
ished is wearing a
£lO turn-out.
Trained experts
decide cut, colors,
combination
of material, every-
thing. All the cus-
tomer has to do is
to pay his money
and submit to be
decorated. The sys-
tem does not seem
to have gone as
far ,as that once
pursued by a fam-
ous London army
tailor much pat-
ronised by impe-
cunious subalterns.
If the family stand-
ing was all right,
a whisper ensured
that when the
clothes were deli-
vered the pockets
contained b a n k-
notes for the sum
required. These were entered in the often
long-standing bill as “extras.”
ij: :|: s'.:
“S.T.S.”: For the odd-name journalistic
championship (B. 25/l/’33) I would nomi-
nate the quarterly run. some years back,
by the English satirist Wyndham Lewis. He
gave it the simple and unforgettable title
“Blast!”
* * * *
“Whitehall”: I never read a book of
alleged memoirs without losing a little more
of my reverence for the printed word, for
whenever the writers deal with a subject
about which I know something from per-
sonal experience they invariably turn out to
be unmitigated Munchausens. Vicomte do
Mauduit (“Private Views”) is the latest.
He describes a visit to Broome Park when
Hugh D. Mclntosh had it. A “retinue of
lackeys” met him at the front door, and “a
superb butler” ushered him into the hall,
“bellowing my name with particular insist-
ence on the title.” Another lackey drove
his car to the garage, and “a Highland piper
in full regalia wearing the tartan of the
Mclntosh clan piped, the house party into
meals.” I was at Broome at the time. It
was understaffed. Mclntosh only used it
EXHIBIT A.
“I wish you would stay home from work, Uncle!”
“Why?”
“So that you could see how well I behave when you’re
at the office.”
for week-ending; he and his wife spent most
of their time in a London flat. There were
no “lackeys” and no “superb butler’ ; only
an unobtrusive young man whom Mclntosh
had brought with him from Sydney and some
maids. The piper was another figment of
the Vicomte’s imagination. If you had a
car you drove it round to the stables
(Broome was built before cars were thought
of. and has no garage to this day) and
parked it under a tree. r lhe Vicomte
reminds me of another titled foreigner who
visited Victoria’s Western District some
time back, and stayed with a “farmer-king
who wore a red shirt and riding-boots and
kept a pistol in his belt at dinner.
OVER OHE ODDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A beer strike, declared by the Fremantle wharf-
lumpers as a sympathetic protest against a cut in
hotel employees’ wages, was considerably interfered
With by the worst heat-wave on record.”
’Gainst Sisera. on one supreme occasion,
Stars in their courses battled, Scripture
says;
And Sol, it seems, can exercise persuasion,
Even in these prosaic modern days,
On those who hats into the ring have flung
To stage a fight for conscience sake with
Bung.
Pubs may be sternly labelled black, and
entry
Thereto forbid, when winds are cold and
bleak;
But when the mercury climbs above the
cent’ry
Day after day for a relentless week.
Through breathless morns and noons to
stifling eves,
Well, that’s a very different pair of sleeves.
The stars saved Israel when in clash and
clamor
The warriors of Canaan broke and ran,
And hefty Jael completed with a hammer
The job the twinkling hosts of Heav’n
began ;
And heav’nly orbs may even still espouse
One side or other in terrestrial rows.
They opened war upon the beer, the lumpers;
With book and bell they banned the pint
and pot;
Forswore the sleevers long, the frothing
bumpers,
Condemned the tiddley and decried the
tot.
Then on the scene a heat-wave fierce was
sprung.
The sun glared down to give a hand to Bung.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


p^.
10?
S I
BfJ*
IP
r*
SHELL
IS MILES BETTER
gsfcyl
m
r
Hi,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
_ Adelaide School of Mines has for the first
time given its diploma in engineering to a
full-blooded Chinese, Lew Mon Ham, son of
a local draper. He is going to take his
talent where it will do most good. “China,”
he told an interviewer, “is flooded with
Doctors of Philosophy and others with
merely theoretical knowledge. What it needs
is practical men.”
Baron Sydenham of Combe, who died last
week in London aged 84, was Governor of
Victoria (as Sir George Sydenham Clarke)
from 1901 to 1904. In his earlier days he
saw T war service in Egypt, and in his later
ones he held a number of jobs connected with
military and naval administration. Four
years after leaving Melbourne he began a six-
year term as Governor of Bombay, with n
peerage at the end of it.
At Howe’s Valley, Singleton (N.SW.), are
a Darby and Joan, Mr. and Mrs. Harry
Jackson, who were made one at Wollombi
in December, 1860. There are seven child-
ren still living and about 120 other descen-
dants. Both parents are Australian-born;
he is 95 and she is 93.
Major-General George Cuscaden, V.D.,
L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S., collapsed and died sud-
denly in his car in Melbourne the other day.
He was born in Ireland in 1857, and arrived
in Australia in 1886. Previous to that he
had been a ship’s surgeon in the Egyptian
War of 1882 and a Government surgeon in
the West Indies. During his long sojourn
in Victoria, his interests were about equally
divided between private surgery and civic
affairs. He was a Melbourne city council-
lor from 1912, and an alderman from 1929,
and there was hardly an infant-welfare or
hospital committee on which he had not
sat at one time or another. Baby health-
centre work was his specialty;
Maoriland’s High Commissioner, Tom
Wilford, doesn’t often get into the news,
his activities being concerned with such
prosaic things as butter and mutton, but he
has made quite a splash by launching a
“New Zealand Day,” abetted by Edward P.,
Dominions Secretary Thomas, London’s Lud
Mayor, Lord Rutherford and official repre-
sentatives of all parts of the Empire. The
celebrations were on February 8, but they
were intended to commemorate the signing
M.L. High Commissioner WILFORD, who
broadcast an address from London to
the antipodes last week.
of the Treaty of Waitangi, an event which
the historians say took place on February
6, 1840. Introducing the Prince’s broadcast
speech, Tom Wilford included in greetings
to his homeland: a loving message for his
mother. The Prince, who knows as much
about the idiosyncrasies of various parts of
the Empire as any Englishman, alive, corm
plimented the Maorilanders in terms exactly
to their liking—and didn’t forget the Maoris.
Riehard Linton, M.L.A., Vic.’s new Agent-
General, is a Maorilander who came to a
commercial job in Australia in 1596. He
retired in 1924, but, when Bruce was
pouring out money on migration, Linton
voyaged to England, and while there
conceived the voluntary Big Brother move-
ment. If enthusiasm, sympathy and a
gift for organisation could have made
the project a permanent success, it
would still be booming. As it was it was
extraordinarily successful until the Depres-
sion hit it. Hundreds of Little Brothers
came out. found ready sponsors amongst
business men, graziers and the like, and fitted
so well into the new environment that the
number of failures was negligible. In his
new job Linton hopes to promote a new form
of immigrant—that of the tourist with
money to leave behind him.
The new Pre-
mier of South
Aus., Robert
Richards, he do
come from
Moonta: his
father was a
Cornish miner,
and Robert
Stanley was un-
derground him-
self one time.
His Chief Sec-
retary, S. R.
Whitford, who
also comes from
Moonta, is a
brother-in - law
belong to him;
and another
brother - in - law
is the man who
made this draw-
ing, Oswald
Pryo r, 1 who
comes from
Moon t a, too.
Richards is the
third Premier
from the old
copper - town ;
the others were
John Verran, of
South Aus., and
Scad d a n, of
Westralia.
These Austra-
lians turn up in
all sorts of
places. Methu-
ens, the London
publishers, have
just announced
“Idols and In-
valids,” a book
by the Ilarley-
street surgeon
James Kemble
—it consists of
studies of the
S.A.’s new Premier
RICHARDS.
private lives of
various historical personages; apparently
something in the style of the late Dr.
Charles MacLaurin’s ‘‘Post-mortem.” And,
curiously, just as MacLaurin did the
first of his studies for The Bulletin, so
Kemble wrote for this paper the first of his
articles. The present Harley-street surgeon
was a Newcastle (N.S.W.) youth—his
brother Allan is still, there —who graduated
at Sydney, was a resident for a while at
Sydney Hospital, then practised at Paterson
and Maitland before going to England to
become an F.R.C.S. (Edin.) and F.R.C.S.
(Eng.).
The gold dredging and mining world lost
a leading light when F. W. Payne passed
away in London last month. Born in Eng-
land, he practised in Melbourne as a consult-
ing engineer, and later in Dunedin (M.L.),
where he designed and superintended many
successful dredges in Otago. He de-
signed the first dredge in the Philippines,
and later set up dredges in the Malay States.
He visited M.L. as lately as last year and
acquired a claim on the Molyneux River,
where his son, who will control the firm’s
business, will instal a modern dredge.
The Rev. Kenneth Bickersteth is resign-
ing the headmastership of St. Peter’s, Adel-
aide, which he has held for 14 years, and
returning to England to take charge of Fel-
sted. Essex, one of the oldest of the smaller
public schools. The padre-dominie served as
senior chaplain with a London territorial
division in the war, and earned an M.C.; he
has been senior Anglican chaplain of the
A.M.F. in S. Aus. for some years past.
Bickersteth, like the late Lawrence Adamson,
is a product of Rugby; he was an assistant-
master at Melbourne Grammar in pre-war
days.
When Albert Nathan .Tonsen passed to
his fathers last week Sydney lost the last
of its once-formidable army of business men
,who habitually sported top-hats and frock-
coats. George Judah Cohen still clings to
the old uniform, but it is many a year since
the Sydney man-in-the-street has seen this
financial magnate except through the win-
dows of his car. Jonsen, who was a German,
started a business in the country half a cen-
tury ago with John Monash’s father. Having
amassed a small fortune, he came to Sydney,
bought a suburban house, which he lived in
to the day of his death, and opened a money-
lender’s, office in Eliza beth-street. There was
nothing of the Shylock about him. He had a
large clientele, composed chiefly of people who
offered no security for the small loans he
advanced. He took no action if they didn’t
pay beyond refusing to part when they
wanted money next time, and he is said to
have made few bad debts. He was a digni-
fied figure in Ills long coat (the lapel of which
invariably bore a red flower), though he
was not much more than five feet in height.
Time was when every French private was
credited with “carrying a marshal’s baton
in his knapsack”; but rising from the lowest
grade to the topmost has been a much rarer
thing in the British. Army. Field-Marshal
Sir William Robertson, who died last week
at 73, managed it, however. He served in
the ranks for 11 years before winning a
commission in India in 18S8; after that pro-
motion came steadily till he won the supreme
distinction in 1920. He collected his experi-
ences in “From Private to Field-Marshal;”
published a year later. Another book, “Sol-
diers and Statesmen, 1914-18,” throws a
deal of light on the incessant differences be-
tween trained soldiers and politicians, not-
ably Lloyd George. Parliament recognised
Robertson’s services in the Great War with
a grant of £lO,OOO.
Adelaide Conservatorium, through the
University which controls it, gets two strong
additions to its staff. One of the singing-
teacher posts, lately held by Harold Denton,
and before him by Clive Carey, goes to
Harry Wotton, Adelaide-born, a useful per-
former in Williamsonian opera, then a
teacher in London, with broadcasting experi-
ence and a wide knowledge of languages.
Alex. Burnard, who becomes teacher of
orchestration and composition, is also an
Adelaide product, with London training,
mainly under Vaughan Williams. Back in
S. Aus., he has been a severe musical critic
for tin l “Advertiser,” and has lately earned
at the University the rare degree of Mus.
Doc.
W. .T. Buzacott, who will shortly com-
plete ■ 50 years of service with the Bris-
bane “Courier” proprietary, is practically a
product of the journal; his dad, also W.J.,
was for years editor, and he himself began as
an apprentice. A skilled engineer as well as a
journalist, he has superintended the erection
of almost the whole of the machinery used
in the production of his firm’s papers. For
the past 25 years he has edited the
“Courier’s” weekly, the “Queenslander.”
R. 11. Horsfield, who has just been made
chairman of Vic. Water Commission, was an
engineer for construction therein a dozen
years ago. He left the service for a more
lucrative job in S. Aus., but when Dethridge
died he was recalled to Melb. to become
third member of the commission. Like
Stuart Murray, the first chairman, he spent
his early life in the Kyneton district, and pos-
sibly dreamed of making bigger reservoirs
when he played on the banks of the Malms-
bury storage dam. Kenyon, engineer, and
Trevean, accountant, of the commission staff,
are Horsfield’s two fellow water-controllers.
'F. W. Doidge, who has returned to Aus-
tralia for a few weeks as director of Lord
Beaverbrook's campaign to promote Empire
trade, first got .
into touch with the
newspaper million-
aire w li e n the
latter was head of
the Ministry of
Information in the
Great War. Beaver-
brook’s job was
really to keep the
lion’s tail erect
during the dark
days, and Doidge,
who was a ser-
geant with the
Enzed Division,
was drafted into
that service. While
on this job he
acted as showman
to thousands of
distinguished and
other people, and
his alertness and
tremendous energy
so impressed his
chief that when
the war was over
there was no ques-
tion about Doidge
going back to his
little press job in
F. W. DOIDGE,
“Empire Trade”
emissary to Australia.
Australia —Beaverbrook put him on his cir-
culation staff, and soon made him a director
of the “Daily Express” and later of the
“Evening Standard.” Doidge is a Maori-
lander by birth; but his father for many
years ran the paper at Cootamundra
(N.S.W.). Beaverbrook is a Canadian,
formerly Max Aitken: his father w T as a
minister of the Kirk. Cement laid the foun-
dations of the son’s fortune.
Fred Doidge. who is visiting Australia
and Maoriland in the interests of Lord Bea-
verbrook’S' Empire Trade campaign, grew up
at the political knee of Bill Lyne. Doidge’s
father ran the paper at Cootamundra and
Biff Bill was for donkey’s years M.L.A’. and
M.H.R. for the district that dad’s paper
served. Young Doidge was no more than
15 or 16 when he delivered his first political
speech, in the big man’s presence, and got
patted on the back for it.
One of the victims of the recent intense
heat in Westralia was Bernard Leslie,
Mayor of Kalgoorlie—he had established
something like a lien on the office.
Leslie was born in Dublin 70 years
ago; he struck Westralia in the early
’nineties, and after some years at prospect-
ing and mining settled down to less strenu-
Mayor BEN LESLIE, of Kalgoorlie, who
died suddenly last week.
ous business occupations, first in the Mulga-
land settlements, later at Boulder and Kal-
goorlie. Civic work was his strong suit,
and he brought to it constant thorough-
ness and a winning as well as picturesque
personality. A journalist who met Leslie
during the Prince’s visit to Australia in
1920 found a strong resemblance between
the goldfields Mayor and Velasquez’s “Por-
trait of a Spanish Gentleman.”
The Westralian Assembly, now in its clos-
ing stage, has lost a member by the death of
11. J. Brown, one of the pioneer farmers of
the Pingelly district. He had represented
the constituency for the past nine years on
the C.P. ticket.
The Reaper is taking a heavy toll of
.Cobb and Co.’s drivers. Since the last re-
union in Melbourne of the. Old Drivers’
Association in May, 1930, 35 have passed
out, and now Robert Grover has been added
to the roll. Grover handled teams in one of
tlie first four American coaches landed in
Victoria. He drove four-horse vehicles on to
the stage in several Bland Holt productions.
He was 86. The average age of his living
colleagues is 75.
Artist Miles Ever good, who is revisiting
Sydney after over 30 years’ absence abroad,
and hasn’t been sparing in his comments on
Australian galleries, is an impressionist with
a passion for color. Born in 1878, the son
of a Melbourne honorary ’ magistrate, he
began his studies under Fred. McCubbin and
Bernard Hall. After exhibiting in Melbourne,
and Sydney, he left in 1899 with Frank
McComas and worked on' the “Evening Bul-
letin,” Honolulu, and later on the San
Francisco “Examiner,” for which he illus-
trated Edward Markham’s “Man with the
Hoe.” Settling in New York, he exhibited
with all the leading aft societies, and was
made a life member of the Lotus Club*; the
Salmagundi Club organised a special exhi-
bition of his work. Moving on to London
in 1911. he exhibited with the New English
Arts Club, the International Society of
Sculptors, the Painters and and
at the old Salon. After the war he returned
to America. While in Brisbane last year
he held an exhibition of impressionist pic-
tures at the Gainsborough Gallery, and the
controversy he started there on the question
of modernism in art hasn’t yet died down.
Lionel C. H. Shave, whose “tragi-comedy
for the broad and pure in mind,” entitled
“Oh, That’s Different!” will be staged at
the Tom Thumb. Sydney, on February 18,
is chairman of Griffin, Shave and Co. Pty.,
Ltd., the advertising agency. Born in Mel-
bourne in 18SS, he began his scribbling for
a magazine which he helped to publish in
Southampton (Eng.) in 1910. Shortly after
his return to Australia in 1913 he was per-
suaded into ad.-writing by E. A. Price, who
later became a principal in a rival agency.
“Oh, That’s Different!” is his first three-act
play, but several of his one-acters have been
produced. He is an old Bulletin contri-
butor.


WHEREVER
YOU
WHEREV v E c R u TRAVEL
Wherever you live in Australia
or New Zealand, a branch of
The Bank of Australasia is
near, ready to render the ser-
vices that almost a century’s
Australasian experience has
brought into being.
{lncorporated by Royal Charter, 1855.^
Wherever you travel the Bank
can help you—with Letters of
Credit, and with the local ser-
vices of its Agents and Corre-
spondents in the countries
through which you are going.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
(used in the
business of the
Bank)
Currency Re-
serve
Reserve Liability
of Proprietors
Under the
Charter
£4,500,000
2,475,000
2,000,000
4,500,000
£13,475,000
HEAD OFFICE IN AUSTRALASIA:
394-96 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Superintendent: George D. Healy.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Marcus Clark (Victoria), Ltd.
r Dividends N Towards
Pref. lte-
June, Profits. 8 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
1925.. 5,052 5,000 Nil 52 10,511
May.
1926.. 3,991 3,667 Nil 324 10,187
A U g., A(J ded preliminary exes., £9647 .. 19,834
£
1927.. 41,009 16,852 8 p.c. = 22,704 1453 18,381
1928.. 24,884 13,600 4 „ ~10,200 1084 17,297
Premiums on shares, £1750 .. 15,547
1929.. 19,631 14,606 Nil 5025 10,522
Loss.
1930.. 6,032 7,600* Nil 24,154
1931.. 8,716 Nil Nil 32,870
1932.. 7,832 Nil Nil 40,702
*4 p.c.
The position is much worse than that. In-
cluding the subsidiaries’ figures and £12,408
dropped by Craig Williamson in getting out
of a contract to purchase the freehold of its
premises, the year’s losses were £71,633.
The trading debit was £6251 lighter, mainly
because of an improv ment of £13,907 in
Craig’s (the Melbourne subsidiary’s) figures.
But Miller Anderson, the Adelaide house,
slipped a further £8539 during the year to
-Tan., 1932; Craig’s figures were made up
to July 31 last. Their profit or loss has
been as follows :
1927. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Craig’s .. .. £50,834 £1,708 £53,464* £51,966*f
Miller Anderson 7,116 3,296* 11,835*
*Loss. (Includes £12,408 loss on property deal.
Since the accounts closed sales have picked
up, the directors report, partly because of
new departments opened in both centres.
Exes, have also been cut; Craig’s now hold
a 12-year lease of their premises, and the
annual rental is £9620 less than the interest
previously payable under the contract can-
celled. Most of the parent’s loss appears to
be due to bad debts on old t.-p. accounts.
The parent transformed itself from a
motor-agency in 1926, following the acquisi-
tion of Craig’s retail-drapery business. Capi-
tal has since been increased by £368,000; it
is now £465,000 in 190,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 320,000 ords., the latter being mostly
held by the Marcus Clark Co. of Sydney.
There is £45,000 uncalled on that co.’s hold-
ing. When taken over Craig’s was netting
£68,335 p.a.; since then total earnings have
exceeded losses by only £8504.
Marcus Clark (Vic.) holds all the 400,0(H)
ords. in Craig’s, and all the 100,000 ords.
and 5000 of the 8 p.c. cum. prefs. in Miller
Anderson. The balance-sheet position of
the three cos. is as follows:
Marcus Clark Craig, Miller,
(Vic.), Williamson, Anderson,
Aug., 1932. July, 1932. Jan.,’1932.
Paid capital . . £465,000 £400,000 £185,000
Mortgages .. ~ 5,000 92,500
Sundry creditors . . 114,206 147,483 9,237
Property, plant, etc. 155 92,617 170,294
Shares in other cos. 510,000 -
Stocks . . .. 154,499 54,444
Book debts, etc. . . 28,348 59,248 37,488
By forfeiting its equity in the freehold
Craig’s was relieved of £530,738 of debt last
term. But the whole undertaking is still
heavily committed, as this bird’s-eye view of
the combined finances shows:
Property, plant, etc. .. ..£263,066
Stocks 208,943
Book debts . . .. .. 125,084
£597,093
Less : Liabilities* .. .. .. .. 376,046
£221,047
Less: Outside pref. capital.. .. .. 75,000
Net tangibles.. . . . . .. £146,047
*lncludes Staff Fund, £7620.
From the £146,047 of net tangibles (book
value) available for shareholders in the
parent, there has to be deducted about
£12,000 of pref. div. arrears in Miller Ander-
son, payable to outside shareholders. Thus,
apart from uncalled capital in the parent,
the deficit on behalf of the 190,000 prefs.
amounted to £56,000; the ords. are repre-
sented by nothing excepting £167,000 of
goodwill.
If the drift is not soon stopped, the posi-
tion is likely to become hopeless. It is
anticipated that losses will be avoided in
both centres during the current term, and
much depends upon whether the management
is able to head the business in the direction
of recovery before further capital disappears.
The prefs.. including 4s. lOd. div. arrears,
are nominally covered by 14s. Id. in net
tangibles. They are speculated in at 65.,
and the ords. at 2s. 6d.
North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., 1921.. 46,294 8 p.c. = 44,064 2,240 13,005
Dec., 1922.. 58.988 8 „ ~ 44,054 14,934 27,939
Dec., 1923.. 46,543 8 „ ~ 44,054 2,489 30,428
Premiums on shares, £3445 .. 33,873
Dec., 1924.. 48,664 8 p.c. = 46,113 2,551 36,424
Premiums on shares, £1983.. .. 38,407
Dec., 1925.. 48,501 8 p.c. = 48,387 144 38,521
Premiums on shares, £7130.. .. 45,651
Dec., 1926.. 48,344 8 p.c. = 51,675 42,320
Premiums on shares, £12,463 .. 54.783
Dec., 1927.. 56,785 8 p.c. = 56,695 90 54,873
Dec., 1928.. 59,254 8 „ ~59,254 54,873
Dec., 1929.. 59,191 8 „ ~59,254 54,810
Dec., 1930.. 41,707 7 „ ~51,847 44,670
Dec., 1931.. 48,496 64,. ~48,144 352 45,022
Dec., 1932.. 44,782 6 „ ~44.440 342 45,364
The public seems to think that 6 p.c.
with Lang out is better than 8 p.c. with
Lang in. The scrip is now at 235. 9d. (it
was never much higher) as against 15s.
in September, 1931. The return at the
latest price is a shade under 5.1 p.c. on the
new statutory 6 p.c. div. basis. That rate
became operative in March last, under the
Lang Government’s Gas Act; also, the
annual allowance for special purposes and
depreciation on buildings and plant was re-
duced from 3* p.c. to 3 p.c. of' the book
value of the items, thus further restricting
the scope of the co.’s discretion and initia-
tive.
The point which Governments appear to
forget is that if a gas co. had to borrow
largely to replace obsolete plant, insufficient
allowance for depreciation having prevented
the creation of an adequate sinking-fund,
the extra burden of interest on the debt
would be at once reflected in the price to
the consumer. The present appropriations
allowed barely cover wear and tear; obsoles-
cence is not considered. The North Shore
Co. has not been able to take full advantage
of the Act’s provisions, either; the £ll,OOO
carried to the fund last year was about
£19,000 short of the maximum amount
allowable. In the circumstances a great
deal depends upon whether the following
amounts charged to p. and 1. for repairs
and maintenance have been adequate over
past years:—
Paid for out of Profits.
Repairs and , •S
Maintenance. Works, etc. Strikes, etc.
1920 .. £25,261 £lOOO
1925 .. 39,214 6499
1927 .. 40,075 5792
1928 .. 40,935 4514
1929 .. 37,807 3828 £31,394
1930 .. 37,126 2858 23,060
1931 . . 40,015 2819
1932 . . 30,104 6955 _
In addition to the above charges, £38,044
(as against £31,008) was disbursed in re-
pairing and fixing meters, etc., last term.
Despite a cut of 3d. (to ss. lOd.) a thou-
sand in September, following the reduction
in the N. S. Wales basic wage, gas sales
(806.14 million cubic feet) dropped 2.8 p.c.
The new method of calculating sales—in
heating units instead of volume —may be
responsible for some of the movement. Only
by savings in costs of manufacture
(£126,365, down £20,641), which were re-
duced by sd. per 1000 e.f., was enough
profit shown to pay the div. Distribution
and other costs mounted, as this analysis
shows:—
Per 1000 Per 1000
Revenue:— 1931. c.f. 1932. c.f.
Gas sales ..£261,543 6/3* £247,247 6/1*
Residuals, etc. 45,041 l/l| 44,932 l/l|
Exes. :
Manufacture.. 147,006 3/6* 126,365 3/1*
Distribution. . 55,136 1/3* 61,060 l/6j
Special purposes 7,000 -/2 11,000 -/31
Other charges 48,946 1/2* 48,973 1/2*
Returns from residuals were kept at a
satisfactory level, notwithstanding the fall-
ing-off in roadmaking. Estimating sales at
last year’s volume, gas turnover should
bring in about £9OOO less this term.
Plant is in at £1,003,668, freeholds at
£106,373, and buildings at £113,338, Stocks
(£25,229) and debtors, cash, etc. (£24,075)
comprise the liquid assets. The co. owed
£310,000 on debentures at balance-day; it
also held £46,572 of temporary loans, other
liabilities amounting to £43,106.
Hoffman Brick (Melbourne)
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 21,447 10 p.c. = 19,253 2194 52,945
Profit on sale of land, £17,038 .. 69,983
1926.. 24,130 12* p.c. - 24,066 64 70,047
1927.. 25,303 12* „ „ 24,066 1237 71,284
Profit on sale of land, £4016 .. 75,300
Bonus shares received, £5460 .. 80.760
1928.. 17,974 10 p.c.- 19,253 79.481
Profit on sale of land, £406 . . 79,887
1929.. 11,672 8§ p.c. 16,846 74,713
Profit on sale of land, £516.. .. 75,229
1930.. 4,315 5 p.c. = 9,626 69,918
Loss.
1931.. 8,267 Nil - 61,651
Written off, £6383 .. ... .. 55,268
1932.. 4,088 Nil 51,180
New buildings authorised in Greater Mel-
bourne during this co.’s year were valued
at £2,100,000 —double the preceding twelve-
month’s total. But the increased construc-
tional activity was not felt until towards
the close of accounts, and Hoffman’s plant
worked at very low pressure during the
term. In 1931 there had been a crash in
turnover, and a loss of £8267 showed up;
hist year the debit was reduced to £4OBS.
\ isible allowances for depreciation in p.
and 1. figures were very small in both terms.
1 igures for the boom years are best for-
gotten. _ They represent probably the richest
patch in the co.’s history, and the 10.8 p.c.
averaged during the decade to 1930 (sweet-
ened by a 20 p.c. bonus issue in 1923) is
11 ~ el y *° be repeated for some time,
o’till, figures for the last couple of years
are no true guide cither; even the current
year should show an improvement.
Much depends upon whether adequate re-
pairs and maintenance of plant have been
charged to earnings. Last term £6383 was
appropriated from reserves to provide for
the difference between the book figure and
expert valuation placed on steam general-
mg plant, discarded in place of mercury arc
rectifiers. During the fat years the co. may
have made more than adequate provision
against wear and tear, though obsolescence
is a big item, as witnessed above. Several
times the co. has had to purchase labor-
saving- machinery for the pottery section to
meet overseas competition.
. Jjast year’s special provision for deprecia-
te? 11 was held as a reserve, and not written
oft; plant (£71,385) moved up £2662 during
the term ;
„ . , . A , 1928 - 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £192,528 £192,528 £192,528 £192.528
Liabilities . . 10,922 6,958 6,053 8,235
Freeholds . . 79,287 79,232 79,258 79,588
Plant, stores, etc. 88,554 80,454 79,581 80 887
Stock:.. 24,387 26,934 23,984 20,803
shares in other
„ c f- •• 41,821 41,821 41,821 41.821
Book debts .. 32,082 18,911 12,439 12,018
Cash, etc. . . 28,833 26,865 23,148 23,148
Other assets show little .change, though
during the five years to 1931 debtors fell
away £26.808. The more or less liquid sur-
Pjus (£47,794. including stocks) slipped
£o<24, mainly because of the year’s loss.
Shares in other cos. are valued at £41.821,
being the figure at which Northcote Brick
also takes its investment holding into
account. The holdings of each co. have
shown practically identical movements over
many years. The subsidiary businesses
appear to have been as badly affected as the
parent during the present slump.
At 14s. the investor buys net tangibles
with a book value of 255. 2d., largely plant
and freeholds, worth what they can earn.
N.S.W. Mont de Piete
r „ „ To Re ' He*
June, Profits. Dividends. senes, serves.
£ £ £
1921.. 21,726 124 p.c. = 19,939 1787 31,258
1922.. 26,351 124 23,754 2597 33,855
1923.. 28,834 124 „ „ 25,511 3323 37,178
1924.. 31,320 124 „ „ 28,125 3195 40,373
1925.. 31,056 124 „ „ 30,988 68 40,441
1920.. 31,989 124 „ „ 31,250 739 41,180
1927.. 32,820 124 „ „ 31,250 1570 42,750
1928.. 29,605 lli„ „ 28,125 1480 44,230
1929.. 31,245 10 „ „ 29,141 2104 46.334
1930.. 31,777 10 30,000 1777 48,111
Written off securities, £5OOO .. 43 111
1931.. 13,114 35 p.c. = 11,250 1864 44,975
Provision for doubtful debts, £7OOO. . 37,975
1932.. 6,919 24 p.c. = 7,500 37,394
Business is not strictly confined to the three-
ball trade; the co. puts mortgages first
amongst its securities in the balance-sheet.
The moratorium has affected interest earn-
ings and the realisation of some securities,
while depreciation jn values has brought
about losses on others. In 1931 £5OOO was
visibly struck off advances, and in the last
term another £7OOO was taken from reserves
for a similar purpose. In addition, gross
earnings have borne unspecified but substan-
tial charges for bad and doubtful debts.
Last term interest, rents and profits from
branches (less bad debts and interest paid)
dropped £lB.lBB to £23,099. In the previous
year the slip had been £15,908; thus last
year’s gross showing was only two-fifths
of the 1930 figure. The slide is mainly due
to a proportion of the interest being treated
as irrecoverable, a more conservative lend-
ing policy, and the interest-reduction law.
Administration exes. (£16,180) were cut
back only £11,993; thus the net result was
£6195 lighter at £6919, and the 2\ p.c. div.
called for £5Bl moi’e than that. ~ Reserves
(£37,394), though they give little help to
the earning-power of capital, should be
ample to cover any furtfier asset deprecia-
tion.
There was £87,169 less out earning inter-
est last year:—
1920. 1928. 1931. ' 1932.
Paid capital.. £147,245 £250,000 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 3,163 105,610 77,872 5,702
Freeholds, etc. 26,678 60,277 66,324 66,069
Advances .. 158,979 349,037 354,933 267,764
Cash . . .. 2,215 3,026 1,590 16,762
But the co. reduced its liabilities, a large
part of which was interest-bearing, by
£72,170; only £5702 was owing when the
books closed. The cash position also
strengthened by £15,172. If there have been
any foreclosures they are not revealed by
balance-sheet movements.
The market prices the sci'ip at 21s. 6d.,
thus anticipating a revival in earnings when
things settle down a bit more. In better
times 10 p.c. and over was the regular
thing. But 5 p.c. is as much as can be
expected for the next year or so; on last
year’s div. basis the return is only 2.3 p.c.
at the current price. Double that distribu-
tion would show 4.6 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) amounts to 225. fid. per share.
Wellington Trust, Loan & Inv. Co. (M.L.)
To Re- Re-
Dee., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1923.. 11,027 61 p.c. = 8,125 ( 7 0, 7 , r>9 ,
Written off propertv, £2168 ) ‘ 6i
1924.. 11,402 71 p.c.'= 9,375 2027 76,550
1925.. 12,006 71 „ „ 9,375 2631 79,181
1926.. 14,505 8 „ „ 10,000 4505 83,686
1927.. 11,605 8 „ „ 10,000 1605 85,291
1928.. 12,135 8 „ „ 10,000 2135 87,326
1929.. 13,944’ 81 „ ~ 10,625 3319 90,645
1930.. 13,738 81 „ „ 10,625 3113 93,758
Written off mortgages, £2300 . . 91,458
1931.. 11,304 8 p.c. = 10,000 1304 92,762
1932.. 7,686 6 „ „ 7,500 186 92,948
Maoriiand’s National Expenditure Adjust-
ment Act, which became operative as from
April 1 last, has upset this co.’s expectation
of profits. All interest on fixed-term mort-
gages—the kind the co. has specialised in
for 60 years—has been cut 20 p.c., if that
does not bring the rate below 5 1 p.c. And on
the other hand, as the “Wild Cat” has fre-
quently pointed out, these cos. have been
unable to get equal and immediate conces-
sions on their own borrowings; this concern
also suffered a cut of over £3OOO p.a. on the
investment of its capital and reserves. With
exes, of management at only £2674 last year,
the leeway cannot be made up by more
economy in administration.
Hopes chiefly centre on a gradual reduc-
tion in interest payable. Under the cir-
cumstances these figures are of more than
usual interest:—
IQ9fi iQQfi IQQI IQQ9
Income. .. . . £36,053 £35,221 £33,517 £27,157
Interest on deposits,
etc 16,316 15,098 14,906 12,905
Management, etc... 2,443 2,760 2,718 2,674
Taxes .. . . 2,788 3,625 4,589 3,892
Interest reduction affected gross income for
nine months of the year; in addition, the
co. worked down its advances and repaid
some of its deposits, thus reducing the aggre-
gate of interest margin (£14,252), which was
£4359 lighter. Administration exes, and
taxes were cut £741; thus the net result
(£7686) slipped £3618, being equal to 6.1
p.c. on capital, compared with 9 and 11 p.c.
in the two preceding years. The div. was re-
duced to 6 p.c., and £lB6 w T as carried to
reserves (£92,948).
Shareholders have averaged about 1\ p.c.
p.a. over the past 20 years, and £8258 of
premiums which the 1912 share issue car-
ried makes the return more moderate still.
Capital has remained unchanged at £125,000
since then. That amount, the reserves, and
£274,437 (down £23,246 last year) of de-
posits, etc., were mainly invested in mort-
gages, at balance-day, as this table shows: —
IQ9O IQ9O 1091 i Q9O
Capital .. £125,000 £125,000 £125,000 £125,000
Liabilities .. 336,757 322,975 297,683 274,437
Mortgages, etc. 474,076 465,494 456,573 434,078
Freeholds, etc. 10,960 12,159 13,128 21,119
Interest owing 6,269 5,752 5,745 5,415
Liquid assets.. 66,216 67,528 49,552 42,998
The amount out (£434,078) was reduced
£22,495 last year; part of the drop appears
to have been on account of foreclosures, free-
holds (apart from premises) increasing
£7990. Interest owing amounted to £5415,
and liquid assets were represented by £37,998
of M.L. 1938 War Loan Stock, and £5OOO
on fixed deposit.
At balance-day there was 245. 2d. of out-
side money in the business for every £1 of
the co.’s own funds. That compares with
31s. five years earlier. Assets, including
liquids, would have to realise less than 57
p.c. of their book value before depositors
would be in danger of losing a penny. Then
there is the additional backing of £5 un-
called on the shares, which are paid to £5.
This scrip is supported by £8 14s. in net
tangibles (book value), and can be picked
up at £4 17s. The return at that figure
is 6.2 p.c. on last year’s div. basis, or 5.2
p.c. if the rate dropsi to 5 p.c.
Depositors in other Maoriland building
societies have been showing signs of ner-
vousness ; one co., in fact, called up part of
its reserve liability. There is not the slight-
est need for depositors to worry about this
co.’s position, as the foregoing figures plainly
show.
Southern British National Trust
This concern has a nominal share capital
of £500,000; it is now asking for £5,000,000
in £lO debentures for investment in stock-
exchange and other securities. Capital is
in 400,000 ss. ords. and 400,000 6 p.c. cum.
prefs. of £1 each, participating with the ords.
up to 10 p.c. Of the scrip, 375,000 ords. and
(Continued on page 16.)


■ I '£< \M .; I/% ; rvi An 4* I f"%
©v©lo p m © n T in
Tyre History
•/ •'
//
//V /// /
&
WOktv
©
aw
©
an
S*
l
//. /
?8
HA
m
'///in,
// //
m
New standards of motoring comfort,
safety, economy and beauty are estab-
lished by the new Barnet Glass
Aerotype Super Low Pressure Tyres.
They make driving safer, reduce car
depreciation and greatly increase aver-
age daily mileage because higher
comfortable speed is possible on any
road. The car floats over roughest
surfaces.
The Barnet Glass Aerotype is devel-
oped from the Aeroplane Tyre—the
tyres which carry the terrific strain
of landing by heavy planes and which cushion
the machine against damaging shocks.
This construction, adapted to motoring in the
Aerotype, offers the newest and most luxurious
thrill to car owners. The sensation of riding
6n as low as 16 pounds of air cannot be
imagined —it must be experienced. Ask
your Garage or Tyre Dealer to demonstrate.
hi
►
ip
'
W. |
\
£
fjjjjj
\
>O2
1
II
nni pj
x
, /
X
<0
/•


Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coluson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Oollison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
****
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts.
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Any Test Will Prove
PIONEER SUPERIORITY
In Australia’s leading industries
where transmission belting is
selected with the same care as
other sections of the plant you
will find Pioneer Belting giving
many years of efficient service.
When you buy Pioneer Belting
you immediately overcome
breakdowns, loss of power and
costly repairs.
LEATHER
BELTING
THE LEADER SINCE 1858
Made and guaranteed since 1858 only by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.
117 York Street, Sydney.
20-26 Queen’s Bridge St., Sth. Melbourne.
REFRACTORY
GOLD ORES
We specialise in working out most suitable and
economical processes for successful treatment of all
ORES containing GOLD.
Mine-owners, Managers, Operators are invited to send
us samples and full details of their problems.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Head Office: 222 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Telegrams: Victor Leggo, Melbourne.
Your Last Year’s Will
May Not Meet the Conditions of This Year or Next.
Economic conditions have brought about a serious shrinkage
in values, and it may be essential for you to review the
terms of your existing Will, so that injustice may not result
for those whom you wish to benefit most. The selection of
an experienced Executor and Trustee should be considered
at the same time, and in this respect you cannot do better
than appoint
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney,
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE Managing Director. H. V. DOUGLASS, Manager.
LaU ° T " Tlte I° r Free Explanatory Booklet.
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY"
FEBRUARY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
The Banks and the Land:
Can They Write Down Debts?
The N.S.W. Moratorium
McKenna and Inflation
N.Z. Exchange
These and other vital matters
to investors are discussed
in the February issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
250,000 prefs. are also on offer. How r much
capital is actually subscribed and paid up is
not stated, but £lOO,OOO has been mentioned,
and the co. claims to have bought the “Daily
Telegraph” building, King-street, Sydney.
The directors are W. A. Piikington, O. M.
Hope, 11. H. Pollard and J. W. S. Mc-
Arthur (managing) ; they also constitute the
board of the Investment Executive Trust of
N.Z., Ltd., registered in Maoriland in May,
1929. The Southern British Co. was regis-
tered in N. S. Wales last month. The plan
of finance adopted in both cos. is strikingly
similar to the “bond” method, inasmuch as
share capital is small, shareholders look for
profits mainly by way of a percentage on
the earnings of the debentures, and deben-
ture-holders shoulder most of the risks.
These “debentures” are nominally split
into two equal groups, “A” and “B.” Pro-
ceeds from the “A” issue may only be in-
vested in trustee stocks as approved by the
British and colonial Governments; the “B”
issue may be invested in company shares
and debentures, among other things. The
co. is prohibited from borrowing on the
securities purchased in either series, and
preliminary exes, and directors’ fees are to
be borne by shareholders. But costs of
administering the investment portfolio will
be a charge against income from the invest-
.Dvonts.
Net income from each separate series is
shared 95 p.c. by debenture-holders and 5
ptc. by shareholders, subject to 15 p.c. set
aside each year as a reserve for debenture
capital and dividends. No estimate of profits
is. given, but it is stated that the Maoriland
co. is “the most successful investment trust
in the southern hemisphere.” The present is
a good time for the flotation of investment
trusts, but much depends on management.
In view of the magnitude of the Australian
co.’s proposed operations, and the fact that
the directors are not well known in Aus-
tralia, the incorporation of the results and
financial position of the Maoriland co. would
have made the prospectus more impressive.
If finch figures are made available to in-
tending investors, and they are satisfied with
the possibilities of the debentures, they
should note that the latter have not the
security usually associated with the term.
Also that whereas the “A” series may be
invested only in approved trustee stocks, the
directors are allowed practically unlimited
scope with the “B’.s.” Professor Belshaw
was mentioned as consulting economist to
the Maoriland co., but no trustees for the
debenture-holders or other advisers appear
in this co.’s prospectus.
The directors may go to allotment when
100,060 shares and one debenture have been
subscribed.
At Mt. Coolon (Q.) the main shaft has
been deepened to 152 ft. below the 300 ft.
(bottom) level, and the crosscut to the lode
has been begun. Winzes Nos. 3 and 4 have
been sunk 46ft. and 47ft. respectively below
the 300 ft. level. At 40ft. No. 3 assayed
oOs. per ton, and at 30ft. No. 4 assayed 425..
with values of 695. going into the hanging
wall During 27 days’ milling up to January
24. 4833 tons were crushed for a yield of
3150 fine ounces of gold. December’s yield
was 28390 z. gold and 11350 z. silver.
Mt. Coolon West, N.L., has commenced work
putting the shafts on the leases under option
in working order, and new machinery is
being installed.
* 1 * # $
The new goldfield at Blue Mountain,
about 40 miles n.-e. of Coen, Cape York
lemnsula (Q.), is promising. A second
crushing of 13 tons 3cwt., recently
put through at the Towers, yielded 3loz.
of smelted gold, making a total of
Opoz. from 28 tons scwt. of stone, or
about 2foz. to the ton. There are only
three prospectors on the field; one, Arni-
brust, was told of the gold by an abo. about
five years ago. Three shafts have been sunk
and a battery is to be erected. The ore lias
to be packed on horses down the mountain-
side 12 miles before it can be freighted by
motor-lorry to Port Stewart, lightered to a
steamer for shipment to Townsville, and
then railed to the Towers, involving trans-
port expenses of £lO per ton. A battery
Win save all this, and there is sufficient
water for operations.
* * * *
Cracow United Options, Ltd., has secured
on option over a number of claims between
Oakey Gully and Mullocky Leader Gully,
about eight miles from Mt. Perry (Q )
According to geologist 11. I. Jensen, the lode
has been exposed for 900 ft., with an average
width of about 4ft. Samples taken have
assayed up to 2oz. to the ton. Sinking is
to begin forthwith.
* ❖ * *
“Ex-P.”: An unusual show, the Pros-
pector, is being worked close by the Old
railway, station, on the Mount Garnet (N.Q.)
line. Two shafts, one down 30ft. and the
other 48ft., are on a 4ft. reef containing the
unusual mineral association of gold (about
3dwt. to the ton), silver (280 z.), copper
(up to 13 p.c.), lead (7 p.c.) and rutile.
To date 65 tons has bren treated for a
net return of 31s. per ton. Another 90 tons
is being treated. The mine is being worked
by a prospector, G. Raynor, but according
to Geologist Reid considerable capital is
required to develop the show.
* * * *
Electrical prospecting recently carried out
at Cassilis (Vic.) to prove the existence of
any gold-arsenopyrite-chalcopyrite ore-shoots
along the known ore channels is reported to
be very encouraging. 11. W. Gepp, who
sponsored the work, is now arranging for
. to be made at Bethanga, 14 miles east
of Wodonga, with the apparatus used by the
Imperial Geophysical Survey under Brough-
ton Edge. The field was first worked in
1876, and was closed down in 1911 because
of metallurgical difficulties. Several parallel
lodes have been proved for a stretch of six
miles and to a depth of 400 ft. The ore-
shoots, with an average wddth of 15in., were
40ft. to 600 ft. _ long, and the ore assayed
14dwt. gold with 2 p.c. copper and high
arsenic. The question of ore treatment
would doubtless require lengthy investiga-
tion, but the main difficulty with such
narrow lodes is to develop large tonnages.
* * * *
There is considerable activity in the
Wood’s Point and Jamieson district, which
is the most important of the eastern Vic.
goldfields. The A 1 Consolidated at Gaffney’s
Creek is carrying out extensive development
on the numerous quartz floors that zigzag
across the diorite dyke, and i.s overhauling
the 10-head battery and installing a second
gas engine. When the mine, which lias been
worked to 1300 ft., is properly opened up,
comparatively low-grade ore will be profit-
able. Champion Gold is breaking payable
stone over a width of 14ft. on the main adit
level and i.s extending the battery. New Morn-
ing Star Co. at Wood’s Point is opening up
the old Morning Star mine, which produced
£1,040,000 to a depth of 1000 ft.; it has
completed preliminaries and is now ready to
unwater. Royal Standard Gold is develop-
ing from two adits, and United Gleesons is
obtaining nice gold from a small reef. A
prospector at Knockwood is crushing 2oz.
stone.
* * * *
The Just-in-Time show at Granya (Vic.)
has been acquired on forfeiture, and a com-
pany proposes to carry out extensive develop-
ment. The auriferous country at Granya
is two miles long by one mile wide, the verti-
cal reefs, from 6in. to sft. wide, occurring
in granite for comparatively short lengths.
The ore is sulphidic, the gold being asso-
ciated with arsenopyrite. Little has been
done on the- field since 1912.
* * * *
The 1932 yields of eleven of the smaller
State batteries in Victoria total 32720 z.,
which is very much higher than for previous
years, and compares with only 561 oz. in
1926. The five-head battery at Ballarat East
crushed 1883 tons for 8510 z., and that at
Maldon 130 S tons for 7690 z. The average
yield from all crushings was 7.2dwts., giving
£3 2s. per ton, with premiums. Throughout
Victoria there are 31 State-operated bat-
teries, with a total head of 160 stamps, and
four of them have cyanide plants. Just
recently charges for crushing have been
further reduced, and initial crushings are
made without charge.
* >l! # $
Efforts are being made to revive the Ajax
goldmine, Daylesford (Vic.), which was first
opened up in 1869, and which from 1906
to 1908 paid good dividends. Little work
has been done since the war. The mine was
worked to 800 ft. on eight vertical reefs. The
general conditions of ore deposition at
Daylesford are the same as at Ballarat —
the lodes have been formed in faults in
acutely-folded slates, and fiat makes between
the faults also occur.
❖ ❖ * *
Gold Mines Development, which has been
working the Yankee mine at Trentham
(Vic.), and has treated 1147 tons of develop-
ment ore for a recovery of 9dwt. per ton,
has decided to exercise its option of pur-
chase. Two lodes, averaging 3ft. wide, have
been proved for a length of 680 ft.—the main
shaft is to be sunk another 100 ft., and
driving north and south on the 130 ft.. 230 ft.
and 330 ft. levels pushed ahead. A com-
pressor and rock-drills were recently in-
stalled to reduce development costs.
The Broken Hill output of silver-lead ore
during 1932 was 1,095,000 tons, or 220,000
tons greater than in 1931. The highest
recorded is 1,744,006 tons in 1913, when
several mines now closed were worked. The
net value of the lead and zinc concentrates
produced in 1932 was £1,380,000, and the
grade of ore remained substantially the same
at 15.5 p.c. lead, 6.90 z. silver and 11.5 p.c.
zinc. The tonnage raised since the first ore
was broken now exceeds 45,300,000, valued
at £158,500,000 ; there is at least a’ further
20 million tons available.
-i* v .j.
Walker Silver Stannite Co., Howell
(N.S.W.), was engaged in development dur-
ing 1932, opening up a tin-bearing body
below the main adit, an outcrop of silver-
lead ore 1600 ft. from the main shaft, and
a new surface lode with assays up to’s4oz.
silver per ton. A treatment plant, roasting
furnace and copper-leaching vats have been
installed.
sji sjs * He
Ur alia Gold (N.S.W.), capital £12,000, has
made good progress with the testing of the
alluvial-gold area known as Sydney Flat,
at which gold was first found as far back as
1852. Sluicing to date has yielded 6loz.
from 6600 c.y., which is highly payable.
There is 64 million c.y. available, and equip-
ment is to be installed to handle 40,000 c.y.
monthly.
* * * *
Several parcels have been taken out by
prospectors at Weethalle (N.S.W.) during
recent months. There is an extensive area
of granite and altered sedimentaries in which
gold occurs in narrow veins assaying up to
2oz. per ton. Tin and tungsten also occur.
Temora Gold Mines, which is developing
a lease of 44 acres at Sebastopol (N.S.W.),
is meeting with good-grade ore, assaying up
to 12dwt., in driving north and south on the
260 ft. level of New Morning Star shaft,
widths varying from two to five feet. In the
newly-sunk Petersens shaft, 220 ft. north
of the Morning Star, driving is in progress
on the 120 ft.. level, and crosscutting will fol-
low' to determine the extent and value of
the lode, which carries pyrite and galena.
* * * *
N. S. Wales gold production in 1932 was
27,9410 z. fine, compared with 19,6730 z. dur-
ing 1931. Output for December wms 23680 z.
* * *
Like North Kalgurli, Great Boulder Pty.
(W.A.) cannot make up its mind what it
had better do about a treatment plant.
Several courses are open: (1) to keep going
with present plant; (2) erect a new plant
complete; (3) erect portion of. new plant,
but arrange with Lake View and Star to
provide power in form of electric current; or
(4) arrange with Lake View and Star to
treat Boulder output. Lake View w’ill be
capable of doing this when the finishing
touches have been put on its own big plant.
North Kalgurli is having small parcels of
ore treated by South Kalgurli, but continues
to dodge erection of its own mill. Due to
this procrastination, it may be found some
day that the co. has also dodged the advant-
ages of the gold and exchange premiums.
:|! * * : t :
Minister for Mines Scaddan (W.A.) the
otner day signed the final release for a mort-
gage which was held by the State as security
for an advance of £74.000 made in 1929 to
Sons of Gwalia, Ltd. When the loan was
obtained the Gwalia was very weak and
its recovery appeared doubtful. Borrowed
cash, backed by a sound working policy,
gradually made it strong. Last year, calculat-
ing the value of its gold production at 85s. an
ounce, the co. was able to show a profit over
working exes., after making provision for a
big final instalment on the Government loan.
Premium and exchange, after allowing for
other expenditure, enabled a monthly sur-
plus of about £BOOO to be shown.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) is meeting
with rich ore below the 1100 ft. level on the
Perseverance lode —132 ft. of driving has
yielded 704 tons averaging 18dwt.
* * * :J:
B. H. Prop, during 1932 crushed 2116
tons from the Enterprise, Kalgoorlie, for a
yield of 14780 z. The ore was from develop-
ment work on the 1500 ft. level. A total of
525 ft. of diamond-drilling was carried out
towards the South Kalgurli and into the
Enterprise Extended lease, but results have
not been reported.
Golden Horseshoe (New), Kalgoorlie,
treated 41,680 tons during January, which
is the highest tonnage handled for many
months, and compares with 39,820 tons in
December and 37,380 tons in November.
The January yield gave a profit, without
premiums, of £1822, which is also slightly
higher than for previous months. The tail-
ings remaining for treatment at the end of
January totalled about 1,650,000 tons, giving
a little over three years’ life. Co. has lately
been searching for fresh tailing heaps.
On the Hannans North, Kalgoorlie, B. H.
Prop, is erecting a 10-head battery, tube-
mill, mixers and agitators, and a five-drill
compressor. Power will be supplied by 16
motors, current for which will come from
the Kalgoorlie Electric Power Corp.’s plant.
The shaft is being reskidded, and diamond-
drilling is being done in the west section.
It i,s stated that two years’ ore is blocked
out for stoping.
* * * *
Westralian Mines Department has been
flooded lately with applications for gold-
mining leases, including many old has-beens
on which reefs and lodes unaccountably
missed by former owners are reported to
have been exposed. One is the old Wealth
of Nations at Dunnsville, a wonder of
the early Coolgardie boom days. It had a
few big specimen boulders on and near the
surface, and its finder, J. G. Dunn, received
a big sum for his share of it. With gold
at or near its present price, a small syndicate
may make the show pay, but a co.—never.
'W .A. State Geologist Blatcliford's report
on the Wannaway field is hardly in line with
the sensational reports recently issued from
that centre. These mentioned an Aladdin’s
cave, underground vault, armed guards and
what not. Blatchford merely mentions that
some rich patches of ore and alluvial have
been disclosed.
The promoters, Mining House (N.Z.),
Ltd., are asking for £50,000 in shilling
shares to start off Maerewhenua Goldfields
(M.L.). The proposed co., a sluicing show,
has an option over 000 acres and 28 miles of
water races, priced at £18,500 —£5500 in
cash, the balance in fully-paids. The claim
is part of the Livingstone and Maere-
whenua goldfields, about 30 miles west of
Oamaru (South Island). In the past, with
primitive methods, 70 miners made a living.
The area has been bored to go sd. to the
cubic yard.
* * * *
For 1932 Maoriland exported 105,877 fine
ounces of gold, valued at £700,595, as com-
pared with 139.974 fine ounces valued at
£577,612 in 1931. The nearest approach to
last year’s figures were those of 1923. It
is expected that the value of gold won dur-
ing 1933 will exceed £1,000,000.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
If overseas payments are made only with
our exports, what are the arguments against
making our £1 worth only 10s. sterling?
If this were done through slowly boosting
our cost of living, etc., tremendous assistance
would be given to primary industries. Why
are you so much against depressing the value
of our currency ? —4332.
The benefits to the primary producer
through the under-valuation of a currency
externally come by way of a levy on the
importing industries. The banks have to
purchase exchange at very little below what
they sell it for, and, unless regulated by
supply and demand, the exchange position
is liable to become unsound, with losses to
the banks. If the rate was raised so high
that imports were stopped altogether, there
would be an accumulation of funds in Lon-
don, causing a swing in the rate the other
way. “Boosting the cost of living” is the
curse with which we are now afflicted; if
the farmer’s costs are 50 p.c. more, and his
income is 50 p.c. more, where does that get
him? With the present world-wide tendency
to leave gold, competition between countries
deliberately devaluing their currencies can
only lead to uncontrolled inflation and the
victimisation of certain classes in the export-
ing countries. You can’t get something for
nothing unless it is given to you—or unless
you rob somebody.
Any simple method for approximately de-
termining quantity of gold in stone? —4oB2.
By dollying a representative sample and
judging the value of the tail of gold on pan-
ning off, close estimates of values can be
made after a little experience. Dolly samples
of same weight each time.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
G.T.R.: Do not know it, but would not recommend
investment in that type of thing. ... Shareholder:
(1) If socialisation of industry came into force,
there would be no divs. (2) There might be com-
pensation, by increasing note issue or issuing bonds.
. ...V.E.K.: (1) Registered, July 2d, 1929. (2)
Issued, £4,430,186; paid-up, £4,073,936. (3) To
consolidate various interests on Edie Greek gold-
field, totalling 15 sq. miles in area. (4) Records not
available. (5) Sept., 1932. (6) If you are not
showing a substantial loss, 5e11... . F.P.D.: Produc-
tion just recentl.y commenced. Sell at present price,
which shows a profit.... J.G.: For taxation infor-
mation, get Baldwin and Gunn’s book on the subject.
....Reader: (1) Your information is more or less
correct. (2) The other co. is very strong. (3)
Sorry, but we can’t make comparisons. See
B. 16/3/’32 and 13/4/’32, and you should be able
to decide for yourself. .. .Scot: All the prefs. and
the gas co. are likely to come back. The others
are worth holding, but, of course, are not as safe
as the prefs L.E.E.: Balance-sheet figures not
available. If holding, and you can show a profit,
sell. They may strengthen further, but in the
ultimate the show’s a gamble. .. .A.Z.: (1) A very
fair investment. (2) Your broker was quite right.
There is no knowing when a co. will decide to
return expensive pref. capital, and it isn’t usually
concerned about what premiums have been paid on
the S’tock Exchange for the scrip. .. .Modder B.:
Up, for a time. Rand stocks are already mounting.
But if you are able to show a good profit, sell
L.S. : Don’t touch it.


MORE MONEY for PROSPECTORS
WITH THE
PROSPEX PORTABLE BATTERY
df
MUCH time and thought has been given to the modernising of equipment
for the extraction of gold on a mass-production scale. But until the
advent of PROSPEX PORTABLE BATTERIES little thought has been
given to the man on the small show, in his own way equally important.
The PROSPEX PORTABLE BATTERY gives prospectors a chance to
make more money. Its light weight 2cwt. lqr., the heaviest part only
weighing -Jcwt. enables him to extract his own gold on the spot. The
quick transportation, the time saved, the abilitv to test stone quickly, time
to make the best of the present high price of gold, soon pays for a PROSPE'
BATTERY, which is complete in every detail.
Simply made, with no danger of breakdown, it is guaranteed to crush
icwt. of quartz per hour.
The PROSPEX will do what is claimed for it. If within 30 days of
purchase it fails to do the job your purchase price will be refunded on return
of the plant to Melbourne.
Send for a post-free catalogue to-day.
GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS.
THE PROSPEX IS A COMPLETE UNIT, and includes the following items: —
Patent fast-crushing Hand-operated Single Head Battery, fitted with an Automatic
Feeder for the Stone.
Amalgamating table of ample proportions.
Automatic water pump, with gravity tank and all connections for continuous
operation of the water (not shown in picture).
Grease. Gun.
Detailed instructions covering the operation of the battery, which is similar in
all respects to the large batteries used all over Australia.
PRICE
PACKED
F.O.R. or F. 0.8.
MELBOURNE.
LIGHT POWER-DRIVEN BATTERIES BUILT ON SAME PRINCIPLE
FROM 10CWT. PER SHIFT UPWARDS TO ANY CAPACITY.
Portable Gold Mining Plant Pty. Ltd.
84-88 WILUAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C. 1., VICTORIA.
Telegrams: Ablittise. Telephones: Central 450, Private X 2467.
Men that ore men
need a mans blade
2
m.
2
ss;
AT,
r\
m
m
m
V
/'
m
y/Af/tl
%
t
w
/«
9
Fa
2/3 per Packet
OF ALL DEALERS
c
l PROBAK
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
MADE IN ENGLAND (
If your work or play exposes you
to hard weather. If your beard is
tough and you find it hard to shave,
then try Probak the heavier blade.
Its shaving edges are exceptionally
keen —honed and stropped for
swift, easy strokes on the stub-
bornest beard.
PROBAK
stout blade Fo
Managing Agents for Australia : PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 CLARENCE ST, SYDNEY
Hundreds of Thousands
of Small Depositors
Hundreds of thousands of thrifty citizens
from every walk of life have deposited over
£83,000,000 with the Bank of New South
Wales.
Such deposits enable the Bank to assist
f rimary and secondary industries and to
provide the credits essential for marketing
the country’s production.
Thus the small depositor with his ten,
tv/enty or fifty pounds, by entrusting his
money to this great financial institution,
safeguards his savings ; receives his regular
interest; and plays his part in the develop-
ment of the country.
Bank of New South Wales
(ESTABLISHED 1817)
with which the Western Australian Bank and
The Australian Bank of Commerce Ltd.
are amalgamated
The T>road Highway of Romance!
SYDNEY to ENGLAND via AMERICA !
within 28 DAYS on the
MARIPOSA'
&
MONTEREY
IWV-&
Ma *ipo s a
• §
FARES
to ENGLAND
BACK to England via Auckland over the
shortest, most inspirational route! The
South Seas’ limpid charm caught at Suva,
Pago Pago, Honolulu! The vast wonderland
of America entered at California! The modern
apex of ocean luxury enjoyed on Matson-
Oceanic super-liners famed for super-service.
Ships both beautiful and livable. Distin-
guished public rooms (lounge smoking
room library - verandah cafe) staterooms
artistically conceived, conveniently arranged!
The choicest menus served in a dining salon
of rare charm. Service that aims at perfection
—and hits the mark!
And convenience of completing itineraries (to
any point along the route) before you leave!
FROM SYDNEY:
FIRST CLASS ( single ) from £lO5/10; Return £194/10
CABIN CLASS (single) from £B3; Return £152
FROM MELBOURNE:
FIRST CLASS (single) from £lO7/10; Return £l9B/10
CABIN CLASS (single) from £B4/10; Return £155/10
Fares subject to Exchange.
asdf
The SOUTH SEAS! Always the goal of wan-
derers seeking genuine romance! Nearer
now, because of swifter service, lower fares.
The ideal Vacation-Land.
MINIMUM FARES from SYDNEY to
First Class Cabin Class
Single Return Single Return
SUVA, Fiji .... £35/0/-
PAGO PAGO, Samoa £33/5/- 65/0/- £24/5/- £47/10/-
HONOLULU, Hawaii 75/0/- 55/0/-
MINIMUM FARES from MELBOURNE to
First Class Cabin Class
Single Return Single Return
SUVA, Fiji £39/0/-
PAGO PAGO, Samoaf, 3s/5/- 69/0/- £26/5/- £5l/10/-
HtfXOLULU, Hawaii .... 79/0/- 59/0/-
Fares not subject to Exchange.
■ —-
NEXT SAILING TO AMERICA
via New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii
SYDNEY
MARIPOSA
MARCH II
MELBOURNE
MARIPOSA
MARCH 7
THE OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, SYDNEY 'Phone: B 7981-3
AGENTS: DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED
341 Collins Street and 461 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
'Phone: Central 288 (5 lines)
2M.2A


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs”
Royal • “Lilac Time”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Waltzes from Vienna”
King’s “The Breadwinner”
State Movies and Talkies
■
Charles Battle is a London stockbroker who
has been taught to subordinate everything to
social success. His children have been edu-
cated in the same way. He makes money in
a way that he is beginning to feel is .silly
and they spend it in their own forms of
John Ralston as Schubert in “Lilac Time.”
silliness. They are all victims of the silly
system but they can’t see why it is silly.
They are as bored with him as he is with
them. Then he loses his fortune in specu-
lation. A wealthy friend lends him the
money to meet his obligations and he is in
the position to resume the silly business.
On his way to the office on settling day
with the friend’s cheque in his pocket he
gets a sudden revulsion of feeling. Instead
of catching the train he has caught for 19
years he takes a walk on Hampstead Heath.
He returns to liis home a few minutes
before three o’clock, the time when brokers
who have failed to meet their obligations
are “hammered.” He explains the situation,
the clock strikes three, and he describes in
moving language what it would be like if
Charles Battle was being hammered. The
telephone rings agitatedly and the family
realise that what he has been describing is
the actual occurrence. He is going to leave
his family with an income of £750 p.a.
from American bonds and he is going
abroad with five pounds a week, a free man.
to live the remainder of his life according
to his own predilections. This is the theme
of Somerset Maugham’s “The Breadwinner,”
put on by the Athene Seyler-Nicholas Han-
nen combination at Melb. King’s on Satur-
day. It is a brilliant and incisive piece of
work, as entertaining as anything the Firm
has given Melbourne for a long time.
The chief defect is that it is d ; fficult to
believe in the reality of Charles’s act of
emancipation. If he had understood the
position so well he would hardly have
allowed himself ;to get into it. In real life
he would have probably stuck to the tread-
mill and sunk into a resentful old age or
huoyed himself up with self-importance or
become a domestic tyrant. His access of
romantic enterprise smacks a trifle of the
box-office and no doubt every male in the
audience on Saturday was Charles until
Monday morning. To this extent “The
Breadwinner” is a potboiler, though a good
one. The new co. floated easily along on
the stream of Maugham’s scintillating dia-
logue. It has a first-rate lead in Nicholas
Hannen, as the defaulting stockbroker.
With his undemonstrative style he received
attention without begging for it. Athene
Seyler, as a solicitor’s parasitic wife, was
not so conspicuous as Margery Caldicott,
Leslie Holland as Count Scharntorff in
“Lilac Time.”
who had the difficult job of making the
mixture of melodrama and hard practica-
bility, which was Charles’s spouse, intel-
ligible. The average sensual man had a
capable exponent in Harold B. Meade, as
the solicitor, and Hermione Hannen, Chris-
topher Hassall, Charlotte Francis, and
George Benson were f.a.q. juveniles.
“Cynara” will be the next item in the reper-
toire.
Perhaps one of these days someone with
the requisite musicianship and taste for his-
torical research will write a worthy play
around Franz Schubert, who looked so
cheerful and very often felt so miserable,
and who was so great that Beethoven, on his
deathbed, bequeathed him his mighty mantle.
“Lilac Time,” revived at Sydney Royal on
Saturday as a finale to a long Gilsullivan
season, doesn’t pretend to be an historical
play in the serious sense, and the Schubert
melodies with which it is dotted shine like
jewels in a setting that is not quite gold.
There is no record that Schubert was ever
a deeply disappointed lover. There may have
been mild little affairs with Therese Grob
and Caroline Esterhazy, but, despite the
efforts of sentimentally-minded biographers to
accentuate these incidents, they evidently
didn’t count for much in the young com-
poser’s life. His friendship for Schwind and
Schober was a much stronger factor, and
lends an air of at least possibility to the
events recounted in “Lilac Time.”
The piece, in its latest reincarnation, is
well mounted and capably presented. John
Ralston’s Schubert, in make-up and manner,
is a revelation of the extent, to which a
talented character actor can submerge his
own personality. Gregory Stroud, who sings
the “Serenade” really well, makes a good
Schober, and Leo Darnton is equally in the
picture as Schwind. Arthur Stigant and
Leslie Holland, added to the Gilsullivan cast
to play Christian Veit and Count Scharntorff
respectively, justify their inclusion, and Ivan
Menzies makes his very good best of the
small part of a low-comedy detective.
Among the ladies acting honors go to
Evelyn Gardiner, who portrays La Marinella
with bold, telling strokes, and the nice voices
of Marie Bremner, Mary Hotham and Rona
•Wimpney blend prettily in the vocal trio
that is one of the features of the piece. There
is a well-trained ballet of girls and children
to dance to that “Moment Musical,” in which
Schubert achieved sadness in the gayest of
outlines, and that inspiring lyric “Hark,
Hark the Lark” is nicely rendered with a
quartette chorus. A pleasant musical play,
very pleasantly presented.
* * *
A rumor round town that Ernest Rolls
was going to reduce the clothing in his new
revue to vanishing-point no doubt had some
relation to the fact that the house-full
notice was hung out for the first night of
“HonL Soit” at Melbourne Princess. If so,
a lot of people were disappointed. Mr.
Rolls’s latest labor of love begins with a
prologue, in which Jack O’Hagan, Mel-
bourne’s leading jazzsmith, converses on the
radiophone with Paris. The scene then
shifts to a cafe in that sinful city, and Colin
Crane, in Mephistopholian make-up, interrupts
the revellers and invites them to follow him,
when he will show them “Paris with ' the
Lid Off.” The Bulletin didn’t know that
Ivan Menzies as the detective in
“Lilac Time.”
Paris had a lid, but will take Mr. Rolls’s
word for it. When- the lid is re-
moved the surprising fact is revealed that
Paris is very like Mr. Rolls’s last box-office
triumph and the ones before it, which sug-
gests that the French are not very original.
Byrl Walkley sings soulful ditties; Colin
Crape is a soldier wlio ; dies for Napoleon ;
that Emperor is presented with a crown,
in which the jewels are beautiful Australian
girls in pink fleshings; lily buds open on a
pond and disgorge more girls similarly
accoutred; more girls (or the same girls)
form the ingredients in a gigantic cocktail,
and the general impression is conveyed that
Paris has a serious surplus female popula-
tion problem combined with a clothing
fa Pi in e. In the realm of burlesque comedy
Rene Rian 0 is head and shoulders above
the rest of the crowd, and the show moves
briskly when . siie is concerned in it. The
cocktail item is a handsome feature, but the
co. is short of a male comedian with a
natural sense of humor.
* * *
“Out East,” torn from the quivering soul
of Eliot Crawshay Williams and presented
at the Fawkner Kiosk, Melbourne, by the
Little Theatre co., is a study of bad con-
sciences. Mr. Williams endeavors to make
the point that Christian morality East of
Suez is more dangerous to the white man’s
health than heat, malaria, blackwater fever,
Scotch whisky, bad food and lack of sanitary
plumbing, and it is not a bad point to make.
But Mr. Williams brings only a pea-shooter
to a job that calls for a cannon. He sub-
scribes to the axiom that there has lo
be a “bloody” in a play or the audience
is entitled to get its money back, but
further than that his advanced ideas don’t
go. One of his characters is an English-
man with a wife in England who is advised
by. a latitudiharian friend to take unto him-
self a Burmese maiden as a sort of medicine
for digestive disorders and frayed nerves.
To indicate his desperate state he wears a
soiled shirt, which is replaced, on “White
Cargo” lines, by a nicely-laundered suit as
soon as the girl moves in. Unfortunately
ho falls in love with her and she with him,
and when the white wife arrives there is
hell to pay. However, the Burmese lady is
induced to quit, and the wife starts an affair
with the bachelor friend in a spirit of re-
venge. Unfortunately again, however, she
falls in love with her paramour, and they
plan to elope. The stage would seem to
have been cleared for the return of the
•Burmese girl, but by this time, apparently,
Mr. Williams had decided he had done
enough for the intellectual drama, and it
was time for the good old commercial melo-
drama to make its appearance, which it
does with a bang. The Burmese maiden
Bernard Manning as Kappel in
“Lilac Time."
turns up and shoots the Englishwoman and
then throws herself into the Brahmaputra,
or whatever the local suicide convenience is
called. The bachelor friend tries to shoot
himself, but is restrained by the husband,
and everybody is left thoroughly miserable,
including the audience. The most miserable
character was Hal Percy, the husband.
Brett Randall, as the traitorous lover, had
a few moments of gaiety, but a sense of
sin descended on him early, and by the end
of the evening lie was as jolly as a tax-
payer whose assessment is 19s. Ilfd. in
the pound. Ella Bromley, as the English
wife, had no better luck. The performance
of young Patricia Edie shone like a star
amidst the prevailing murk. As the Bur-
mese cure for British psycho-pathological ills
she revealed an extraordinarily sensitive
touch. She was the only person in the cast
who suggested a capacity for living above
the plane of morbid tragedy. A first im-
pression of the show was that white people
in Burma are 10 feet high and are in con-
stant danger of bumping their topees against
the ceilings of their bungalows, but this
was aii optical illusion, due to the fact that
the Little Theatre stage is about one-twen-
tieth the size of that of the average legitimate
temple, of the Muses. The Burmese sky had
a seam in it, but otherwise the setting was
good.
* # *
There are some advantages about the
Melbourne Botanic Gardens open-air con-
cents - eff symphony music, which are at
present the rage fin Melbourne; but the idea
can be pushed too far. In a high wind the
notes are apt to be blown away, and in a
calm the Samplings of the feet of the escap-
ing multitude, for whom one movement of
the D minor is more than enough, can be
distinctly heard. The swans, ducks and
other wild fowl take no interest in the music,
and go about their domestic affairs in a dis-
concerting- way. The spectacle of a drake
smashing the mirror of the lake in pursuit
of its partner distracts even the most con-
templative, and the technicians haven’t yet
solved the amplifier problem, so that three
or four renderings of a piece are apt to
arrive on .a listener’s eardrum from different
directions and not at the same time. The
result of all these disabilities is that con-
ductors have given up attempting to draw
out the subtler charms of the compositions
they essay, and encourage the performers
to be robust rather than delicate At the
next concert, on the 19th, a new location
will be tried —The eastern lawn near Ander-
son-street.
* *
Perth’s Playbox Theatre put its best
f°°t forward for three, nights of “Anna
Christie.” Betty Rowe produced the Eugene
Evelyn Gardiner as Marini in “Lilac Time.”
O’Neill piece, and played Anna with her
usual skill. Rupert Geroux proclaimed him-
self an actor of merit with his study of
old Chris, and John Hobson wears a feather
in his cap after his Mat Burke, the stoker.
Winifred Dickenson deserves a word for
her get-up as Marthy. Rabbi Freedman in
his little address between acts avowed that
lie liked the Playbox effort better than the
sound film.
The plot—a matrimonial tangle—of “It’s
His \\ ife,” presented by Scott Alexander’s
Repertorians at their theatre, Kent-street, is
skilfully constructed and the piece was ably
played. William Gates did well in the part
of a young man whose former wife turns
up the day before he is to be married; an
excellent characterisation was given by Ron
Roberts; William Rees and Walter Hartley,
in small parts, helped the play along, and
Agnes Paulton was the best of the girls.
Poverty Point
“L.11.P.” : The success of the resurrected
“Our Miss Gibbs” in Sydney will be sur-
prising to people who don’t ‘know Sydney.
In London last year revivals of past musi-
cal hits, bar “The Merry Widow,” which
ran to 84 shows, were washouts. “San Toy,”
“Miss Hook of Holland,” “The Duchess of
Dantzig” and “The Chocolate Soldier” all
landed their managers on the wrong side of
the ledger.
“0.W.W.”: In one M.L. township at least
the Salvation Army first made movies popu-
lar. As a small boy I recall seeing them for
the first time in the Army Hall, Carterton,
in 1910. The programme included a “comic”
in which many bricks were heaved about.
The exhibition was so successful that a
local hall-owner started regular shows, but
the Army went cold on its nursling, and
denounced it as sinful.
“Cauboy”: A recently announced song
competition for Australian composers stipu-
lates five minutes as the minimum duration
Oi the opus. Unless the winner is a Beet-
hoven I shall be sorry for the vocalist who
is obliged to publicly warble the production.
Even Beethoven’s “Adelaide,” probably the
longest lyric heard on the concert stage
nowadays, scarcely took four minutes in the
singing when Joseph Hislop dealt with it in
his last season. Chaliapin seldom strained
the patience of his audiences for more than
three minutes at a time.
“Modestine”: It..isn’t often that an am.
dram. soc. gets the better of the Firm, but
it has happened. The musical society at
Stratford, M.L., wanted an operetta and
took the precaution of cabling to London and
asking for the name of a musical show not
controlled by J.C.W. On receiving the news
that “The Belle of New York” was free,
it started to produce it. After £BOO had been
spent in scenery and costumes the society
got a smack from the late Bert Royle, who
had secured an injunction against the pro-
duction. Stratford is a cow town, but it
doesn’t take anything lying down. Further
cables to London elicited the fact that
J.C.W. owned only the professional rights.
Stratford paid a trifle and was granted the
sole rights for amateur pi'oduction in M.L.
Arthur Stigant as Christian Veit in
“Lilac Time.”
for five years. Incidentally the London
agents salvaged a set of band parts from
Malta and sent them to Stratford. They
most be pretty tattered by now.
“O. Kay” : Carl Hertz wasn’t the pioneer
of the cinema in Australia (B. 11/l/’33). He
gave his first show in Sydney on September
19, 1896. Frenchman Emile Sestier, using ji
Lumifere machine, put on a show in July, 1595,
at a hall adjacent to the Marble Bar, in Pitt-
street. He charged 2s. admission and ex-
hibited shorts, none of them exceeding 80ft.
Another who anticipated Hertz was Bert
Sayers, who bought a Lumibrc and 90 films
in London, and showed at Broken Hill in
the latter part of 1895. J. C. Williamson
also started a movie show in the same year,
in Sydney. He, Charlie Westmacott and
another, using a Lumi&re, rented a shop in
the city, fitted it up as best they could, and
ran a continuous entertainment with about
a dozen 100-footers. At the end of a
month they had netted £5OO, a very definite
indication that there was going to be money
in movies.
“K. 8.”: London theatregoers were prom-
ised an “exciting novelty” in “Fraulein
Elsa,” a translated adaptation from Schnitz-
ler’s novel, inasmuch as the Independent
Theatre Club, which specialises in uncen-
sored plays, proposed to stage a scene in
which the leading lady strips herself in full
view of the audience, 'in fulfilment of a con-
tract with a rich admirer for 30,000 gulden.
At the actual performance a disappointed
house of art-lovers witnessed Peggy Ashcroft
remove her clothes sitting on a bed with her
back to the footlights, and even then she
retained a vestige of covering. The police
had intervened.
“Tas.”: Touching “Scenes That' Are
Brightest” (B. 25/l/’33) Wallace ascribed
the origin of the aria to the views of the
River Derwent, New Norfolk, Tas., obtained
from the verandah of the old Bush Hotel,
where lie stayed. About six months ago,
the orchestra of 7ZL went to New Nor-
folk and from the verandah of the pub played
extracts from “Maritana,” which were broad-
cast.


ANY SUGGESTIONS TO OFFER?
A New Idea in Immigration
Dear Bulletin, —Your problem in Aus-
tralia, I understand, is populating the
Northern Territory. Emigrants from Eng-
land could hardly be expected to get accli-
matised in such a latitude. What would be
better than to open up the Territory
by Southerners from the United States?
They are industrious and deserving, and,
besides, of good British stock. These people
have through generations become used to a
warm climate. If you don’t settle your
northern country in this or some similar
way, inevitably an effort will be made to
bring in Chinese or Hindu labor. In 1916
even the meat-packers of Chicago tried to
have legislation passed to allow Chinamen
to be imported to run the packing plants.
Australia would find our Southerners most
desirable: they are worthy citizens, who have
had little chance since the Civil War. I
read in a newspaper the speech of a Chinese
Consul —I think in Sydney. He said the
time would come when you would have to
admit Chinamen. Beat them to it, and
give these Southerners a chance. Approached
rightly, I believe they would emigrate in
thousands.-—Yours faithfully, Joseph A.
Maxwell (Milwaukee, Wisconsin, U.S.A.).
An Unemployment Relief Scheme
_ Dear Bulletin, —In September a few
citizens of Charters Towers formed them-
selves into a committee and advanced sev-
eral bona-fide prospectors the means to buy
food so that they could go fossicking. For
the first three months 50 men won £658 of
gold, or an average of £1 3s. per man per
week. Since the New Year oyer 70 men
have been employed. The value received for
the gold went into circulation in the. district;
besides, it may lead to something much better,
which puts the scheme far ahead of dole
distributions as a means of solving the pro-
blem of the day. What has been done in
Charters Towers can be done in scores of.
towns throughout Australia, for many pro-
ducts might be exploited as gold has been
in this case.—Yours, Marsh (Q.).
Use the Land—or Get Out!
Dear Bulletin, —Holders of land should
be forced to use it or get off it. I’m con-
cerned, in a small way, with a dairying
enterprise 30 miles from Melbourne. This
week we had to practically give away first-
class calves, owing to lack of room. Yet
all round are unused paddocks. These owners
will not sell or lease; they have made their
competence, have no worries, and will ulti-
mately die. on the places on which they have
lived all their lives. Some of these cockies
would not take a thousand pounds an acre
for their land. It is very nice and senti-
mental, but can the country afford it?—
Yours etc., Disc Harrow (Vic.).
Relief Jobs
Dear B., —Official N. S. Wales figures
give 28,000 men (including myself) on relief
work. And not one of us a whit better off
for receiving it, either as regards present
conditions or! hope of bettering ourselves in
the future!. No relief to the public ex-
chequer; the same old unemployment tax;
same old increase in the national debt.
Theoretically, the unemployed should benefit
by the moral uplift, bred of knowledge that
they are working for their pittance instead
of receiving it: for nothing. Actually the
forced work breeds a spirit of sullen dis-
content. What a difference if even a small
percentage of us had been assisted on to
small farms! Some at least would now T be
on the road to independence as regards Gov-
ernment help ; certainly we would be living
on a better standard than the pitifully small
rationed wages allow. And the work, no
matter how hard, would have the incentive
that it leads somewhere, whereas present
relief workers will end up in a year—or in
two or three years—with what they started
on : nothing.—Yours, Kendall.
Cricket Reform
Dear B., —There are many ways in which
cricket can be speeded up to its benefit, and
to the increase of public enjoyment, viz.:
(1) Make the bat narrower. (2) Make the
ball smaller. (3) Make the wicket larger.
(4) Make the batsman stand clear of the
wicket, and defend it with the bat. (5) As
in baseball, declare the batsman out if he
fails to score off an over of, say. eight balls,
wicket to go to bowler. (6) Declare any
ball that is pitched in such a way that it is
impossible to score a no-ball or wide as the
case may bo. Any of these reforms would
tend to make the game brighter, but I think
(4) to (6) would do it the best. If the
games were unduly shortened, have three or
even four innings to make it interesting. Why
not try these in next year’s Shield matches ?
—Yours, P. B. P. (Vic.).
Domestic Servants and the Relief Tax
Dear B., —It was cheering to read in your
Woman’s Letter that the domestic servant’s
position in N. S. Wales is improving. It
is ; and I can tell you why—it is because
factories, shops, offices, etc., are re-employ-
ing girls who a few months ago were taking
our jobs at half the customary wage, or less.
That is why so many cook-generals and
other experienced female workers were on
the dole.
And in many cases unemployed relief tax
was never paid by these wage-smashers ; in
many other cases, if the tax was deducted,
no stamps were bought. I have had five
positions since unemployment relief tax was
payable in N. S. Wales, and so far as I
know no stamp was ever bought in four of
these places, though the tax was deducted.
Some people are honestly paying; in their
interests inspectors should be sent out to
private homes ; or, better still, as books have
to be kept, it should be compulsory for these
to be sent to the Taxation Office once a
year.—Yours etc., Cook-Laundress.
The Banana Beetle-borer
Dear B..—Recently we banana-growers in
Queensland raised a devil of a row in pro-
test against the lifting of the embargo on
Fiji bananas. We did right. The entrance
of_ these black-grown fruits threatens our
existence. But Priminister Lyons, the Gov-
ernor of Fiji, Bruce and several smaller fry
assure us that no more than the 40,000
centals will be allowed to enter Australia
annually, and most of us have returned to
our hoes and yokes with a feeling of security.
Damn fools! Right on our plantations,
working away at their job of devastation, a
million little black enemies threaten our
existence more than all the black banana-
growers in a hundred Fijis. I refer to the
beetle borer. It menaces the banana industry
far more seriously' than bunchy-top ever did.
and beside it Fiji is hardly worth mention-
ing. Those of us who realise the seriousness
of it have adopted plantation hygiene, dust-
ing the old stools with Paris green and flour,
and keeping the plantation as clean as pos-
sible ; but most of us are just going along
as formerly. The- apathy of the Department
of Agriculture is amazing. It has recom-
mended control measures, but that is all; no
effort is made to see. that'these are carried
out. Already plantations have been aban-
doned, and on these beetles are breeding by
millions; another stage of their development
and they will be flying over on to our planta-
tions to clean us ,iip. Can’t The Bulletin
do something?—Yours, C.-L. (Q.).
The Film Business
Dear Bulletin, —Most of what you say
about “The Film Business” (B. 8/2/’33) is
true. But there are a few points on which
I should like to join issue. (1) The presi-
dent of the Film Society did not express a
desire for a quota of British pictures. He
gave the pros and cons, and said he was
open-minded. (2) The “New Statesman
and Nation” has an international complex.
(3) British and Dominions Films has made
a satisfactory arrangement with the Fuller
circuit, and naturally has no use for a quota.
But there are other British and Continental
film-makers still discriminated against,
though some of their productions deserve a
showing on their merits.
British films have gained a footing; they
may soon be praying to be saved from the
injudicious praises of their friends. What
they want is fair play. But to get that the
various devices (c.ff., block-booking, “protec-
tion,” tied houses) in the use of which
American interests are such experts must
be checkmated; and that is, as you suggest,
a job for the Government.
The city public has shown that it wants
British films;, and General Theatres Cor-
poration, under Fox influence as it now is,
has found .the continued supply of this
demand, initiated by Union Theatres, expedi-
ent. But the country towns are in worse
case, as witness a bitter complaint from
Glen Innds last week that they never saw
on the .screen the British films reviewed in
the press., A law providing for a percentage
of rejections in block-booking would help
the country exhibitor to diversify his pro-
gramme with non-Hollywood films. —E.M.T.
Use More Silver
Dear Bulletin, —There are probably
800,000 people in Australia who get paid
weekly or fortnightly. If only half of them
had the first 10s. paid in silver, another
£200,000 of coinage would be needed. An
equal amount of notes could be withdrawn,
thereby increasing the ratio of gold held
against them, or releasing it for other pur-
poses. Broken Hill and Mt. Isa would be
given a lift, while the Commonwealth would
make at least £lOO,OOO profit out of the new
coinage, saving £4OOO yearly if it were
applied towards debt reduction. And the con-
venience to the employees themselves, not to
mention tradespeople and others who are
always supposed to have change, is worth
studying.—C. 11. Regelsen (Q.).
The Bankers of Australia
Dear B., —Is it possible for the bankers,
using the powers they already possess, to
give the community the feeling of security
and progress so much desired? Bankers
create the most important part of the money
we use. Bankers’ currency comes into
existence ( a ) by the banks issuing loans,
(b) in purchasing securities by bank
cheque. It follows that this currency can
be destroyed only by the cancellation of
loans or the sale of securities held by banks.
Now if banks create the' most important
part of money, it follows that they have
the power, to control the total amount in
circulation at any time, always provided the
remainder (notes and coins) is kept at a
suitable ratio. It follows that the bankers
have the power to control the price level by a
suitable variation of the total money in
circulation. The total value of current-
account deposits is known and also the
price level. A controlled relation between
the two should be established without delay.
Would the adoption of this long-view
policy entail sacrifice on the part of the
banks? On the face of it, no. During a
trade depression the total volume of money
is decreased and rates of interest fall. It
is plain that the banks, like all other sec-
tions, suffer from reduced revenue. On the
other hand, a period of stabilised prices
indicates that purchasing power is equal to
producing power and the maximum amount
of money that the community can use will
be required. Undoubtedly a gradually-
rising price level would stimulate trade by
making it profitable for business men to buy
.stocks. This objective could be attained by
the bank purchase of reliable interest-bear-
ing securities, as well as an increase in the
volume of loans. The increased circulation,
due to the certainty that the price level was
going up, would probably render it unneces-
sary to make large increases in the money
volume.
No drastic measures are called for; no-
thing need be done that) is new to banking
practice. All that bankers need do is to
prepare a comprehensive plan and put it
into operation with the caution that has
always been evident in their undertakings.
But give us more action ! Start us on the
road to economic recovery, and the whole
world will call them blessed! —Yours in
hope, John Citizen (Tas.).
The Australian Mercantile Marine
Dear 8.,—1 was told by Mr. Douglas
McFarlane (B. 18/l/’33), in answer to my
complaint of the quality of the ships now on
the inter-Stato services, that the Katoomba
and others are first-rate vessels. The
Katoomba is a splendid vessel, but is nearer
20 years old than 12; she arrived here in
1913. The Orungal and Ormiston may be
comfortable and speedy, too. My contention
is that they do not use the speed if it is
there, but make fuel-saving of more import-
ance than landing their passengers quickly.
The Canberra is the . vessel from Bris-
bane to Sydney berthing on Sundays,
although both the other vessels named are
on the same run. The Ormiston left Bris-
bane on January 14 with a three-knot cur-
rent, which should have made her speed 19
knots or more; yet she only reached Sydney
at 2 a.m. on January 16 and anchored in
Watson’s Bay till daylight. She should
have done it in 12 hours less and landed her
passengers a day earlier. Admittedly some
cos. had a rough spin from the unions ; but
that was not the cause of the amalgamations
of shipping interests. The Inchcape com-
bine didn’t care a cuss about our strikes
until it had control. Now as the Navigation
Act clauses have been lifted and passengers
can be carried by overseas vessels, the fruits
are ripe for picking. With our Navy cut to
microscopical proportions, it is a national
duty to keep a firm grip on the mercantile
marine; and that can only be done by en-
couraging the use of bigger and better ships
manned by Australians.—-Yours, Elless.
THE GOLDEN CALF.
"There is a great revival of gold-mining in South Africa and Australia...U.S.A. and France continue to attract most
of the worlds supply of the metal.”


A Writer’s
Training
Bernard cronin shows the
pitfalls in the way of suc-
cessful authorship and personally
gives a sound training in the tech-
nique and construction of stories,
articles and paragraphs.
write to
BERNARD CRONIN, c/oE.H. Welford Pty. Ltd.
10 Gloucester House, 398 Flinders Lane,
(corner Market St.), Melbourne, C.l.
How can you help me to write?
Name -
Address.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
Tho Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatl
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
m.
Ss
CLUB REIL
A Choice Cigar
6
D.
EACH
Wholesale Distributors:
CRAIG & AITKEN, SYDNEY
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal Accident
and Sickness, Burglary, Plate
Glass, Public Risk, Boiler Ex*
plosion, Workers’ Compensation,
ABORIGINALITIES
ROWS
EMBROCATION IN USE
OVER 100 YEARS
THE BUSY DENTIST.
ASSISTANT: “Mrs. De Kaye just rang up. Wants to know if you can see her this
afternoon.”
DENTIST: “Tell her I’m frightfully busy—got eighteen cavities to fill before six o’clock!”
“Avon” : Though the little wooden church
recently erected at Waiho, in the heart of
Maoriland’s alpine region, is not very richly
beneficed, it has as background for its altar
a picture of the Franz Josef glacier, depicted
in absolute perfection. It was discovered
while building the church that an aperture
cut in the centre of its eastern wall would
frame a superb view of the wooded foot-
hills, the mountain peaks beyond, and the
sinuous course of the mighty river of ice.
So in place of a Gothic+pointed diamond-
leaded window the architect put in a rec-
tangular sheet of clear plate glass, so pro-
portioned as to bring the scene into pleasing
balance. The effect is breath-taking in its
beauty.
* * s *
“Back-seat Driver”: Apropos the orange-
tree at Riverside (Cal.) with a spiked rail-
ing (B. 8/2/’33), I’ve got a suspicion that
the inscription doesn’t claim tin* vegetable as
“the father of all the navel oranges in the
world.” If it does, it claims far too much.
That tree isn’t even the parent of Aus-
tralian navel oranges: we werq growing
navels at Parramatta before the U.S.A. had
. them. The father of them all probably grew
in Brazil; anyway, Brazil had navel oranges
before either Australia or U.S.A., and it
was from there we got our original stock.
The Riverside tree is supposed to have been
the first of the sort cultivated bv Uncle
Samuel.
* * * *
“J.E.R.”: Over tin; last 18 months I had
two fantail goldfish and a loach (scavenger)
in a small aquarium, the top of which was
covered with plate glass. The fantails were
.‘‘in. long, plump and healthy; the loach, 3£in.
long, and in circumference less than a lead-
pencil. Each morning and night I was in
the habit of inspecting the aquarium and its
inmates. When I arrived home one even-
ing the goldfish were not there. It was
impossible for them to have jumped out. In
an effort to clear up the mystery I emptied
the aquarium. All I found of the miss-
ing fantails was a portion of one backbone.
What I want to know is. how could so small
a loach wolf two goldfish in a matter of
10 hours, and why did my blighter take IS
months to consider the project?
* * * *
“Horse Tailer”: Something new in the
droving line is reported from Alaska, where
Lapps have delivered a mob of 3000
reindeer to a place somewhere on the
N.-W. Passage after a three years’ trip
along the coast from Kotzebue Sound.
The Canadian Government introduced the
deer some years ago for the benefit of the
Eskimos in the very far north. It would
be interesting to know how they managed
about the travelling regulations, and if the
owners of the runs they trekked through are
as cantankerous as the average Australian
station manager. The spectacle of the Lapp
Saltbush Bill having a fight on snowshoes
with someone on whose run he has allowed
his charges to spread in Order to get a belly-
ful of moss would be worth going far to see.
* * * *
“Cooramin” : One good idea that far in-
landers, particularly Westralian diggers,
learnt from Binghi was the making of
bush casks for holding water. A large
hollow tree was burnt down, then burnt
off in long .sections, and these sunk
in the ground, leaving about 4ft. above
the surface. They were not used at
Binghi’s camps, which were always located
near water, but set up on a dry track
to look like burnt, stumps. Binghi’s
bottom was a foot or two of puddled mud,
which was made before the log was dropped
into the excavation. If the rain had gone,
the cask was filled from the surface water in
the vicinity. Diggers and settlers sawed or
chopped the lp? off. chipped out the hollow
and put in a wooden bottom, then sunk it
in the ground as the abos. did, and put a
bag over the top. The water was always as
cool as in a well or underground tank.
* * * *
“Herpeton”: Two N.S.W. boys had a
lively experience when fishing the other
day, a sna k e
boarding their
boat. The startled
reptile spent a
long and anxious
half-hour slither-
ing from one end
of the boat to the
other, and the no
less startled kids
did their best to
emulate him.
Finally the
youngsters got
the boat to shore,
and later some
enthusiastic de-
scendant of Adam
slew the intruder.
It is described in
the press as a
diamond - snake,
which is N. S.
Welsh* for ' the
harmless carpet-
snake, one of the
constrictors and
a mighty de-
stroyer of mice
and rats and
other small deer,
so the slaying de-
prived the State
of a useful citi-
zen. The young-
sters can hardly
be blamed for
their fright, but
the same cannot
be said of the
individual wh o
slew it in cold
blood, for its size
alone ‘should
have indicated
the species it be-
longed to. Car-
pet - snakes are
encouraged in
many rat-haunted
butter factories
in the country,
and for years a
produce firm in
Sussex-street, Sydney, maintained one on
the strength. As household mousers they
outvie cats, harboring no fleas, and having
no hankering for rooftops at midnight.
“Moana”. I don’t know
whether the Polynesian is a
descendant of the Celt, as sug-
ges t e d by “A vo n” (B.
i4/12/’S2), but there is a strik-
ing parallel between the differ-
ences of the Gael and thosd of
the Polynesian as developed by
environment. The Irishman
and the Scot are precisely the
same people, but their surround-
ings have changed their tem-
peraments completely. Simi-
larly the Maori and Hawaiian.
The Maori is a keen business
man, a shrewd person who con-
sults his lawyer before he signs
anything, and is on the mat to
collect at S a.m. on the fatal
day. The Hawaiian never pays
anybody and never asks for
anything back. The only way
to collect borrowed money from
him is by borrowing it back.
Moreover, he has other charac-
teristics of the Ould Sod. His
ambition in life is to be a police-
man ; if he can’t he becomes a
municipal inspector. When he
is educated, he makes a good
doctor and a good lawyer, and
as a politician he has all Tam-
many and all Langism pushed into the also-
ran class. The Hawaiian vote is a mighty
small one. yet it controls every election.
* * * *
“Haincr”: “There never was a bloke
like ’Orace Fakem for labor-saving contriv-
ances,” said the man on the park seat.
E worked it so as even ’is cows
milked themselves; as they tugged at lucerne
in the racks they made power for the milk-
ing-machines. Even the dawg was so fixed
that every time ’e pulled at ’is chain ’e’d
pump water inter the tanks from a well near
the ’ouse. If there was an extra-special lot
of men on the roads, passing Fakem's, you
could see the tanks overflowing. When
Fakem’s mother-in-law came erlong there was
rejoicin’ that ain’t usually given when a
mother-in-law comes to stay. She ’ad a good
bit of cash, y’see, and they expected she’d
leave it to them. The old bird, who was
fat and amiable, liked the gadgets Fakem
’ad rigged up about the place immensely.
What pleased ’er most of all was the. electric
light. But there was one thing she didn't
like, an’ that was the way the flooring-boards,
everywhere she trod, seemed to give under
’er. It got on ’er nerves so bad that she
took to ’er bed. She was less comfortable
than she might 'ave been there, because the
electric lights she ’ad liked so much myster-
NURSING CERTIFICATE.
“Well, I’m glad to see ’ee back, William Henry. You’ve got lot
thank missus for —she wouldn’t give ’ee up.”
“No, Cap’n. She’m, the most tryin' woman I ever hear tell of.”
iously failed. But she stayed on in bed.
‘l’m not going to get up again,’ she an-
nounced, ‘until ’Grace ’as fixed up those
floors so that a Christian woman can walk
on them without feeling that she’s sinking
through to ’Ell.’ ‘But Daddy,’ says young
Nelly, ‘is so busy on the farm that ’e ’as
no time ter fix the floor except at night, an’
’c can’t do that without a light.’ ‘Then,’
says the old lady sharply, ‘why doesn’t ’e
put the electric light right so that ’e’ll ’ave
light to work by?’ ‘But, granny,’ says
Nelly, ‘the electric light won’t be right until
you start walking about again.’ That let
the cat out of the bag. Fakem ’ad fixed
them floors so that every tread of the ’eavy
woman’s feet created power that went into
’is electric storage batteries. ‘I ain’t going
ter stay in an ’ouse where I’m regarded as
a power plant!’ declared the old dame; and
she went. And she didn’t leave ’em a penny.”
* * if *
“Tenrag”; Overheard in an Otago (M.L.)
saleyard: “I bocht the quey [young heifer]
for ten poond. She had nae layers, nae
vessel —a high-rumped ribbed thing, wi’ only
four teats dinglin’ alow her. A friend of
mine said: ‘My, you have gotten a poultice
noo.’ When I got her hame and milket her
for the first time she gein as much as wad
cover ma finger-tip. Neist time she filled
hauf-a-cup fu’. Neist mornin’ the cup was
filled, and ten day efter cauvin’ she filled
an eight-pint caun. _ She was Number One
cow of ma byre for twenty-four year, and
then reckit herself cauvin’ twins.”
* * * *
“Imbaga”: Another tropical disturbance
has been reported, this time at Bankstown,
near Sydney. A travelling circus had two
N.Q. crocodiles as a special attraction, and,
for some reason not disclosed, the pair staged
a tremendous fight. It ended in the
death of one after a period of assault and
battery calculated to make the most accom-
plished body-line bowler turn his head away
and murmur “What’s the use?” The circus
had a bad spin with the recent inclement
weather, and probably the crocs, were on
edge with the anticipation that the ghost
might not walk. All artists are notoriously
sensitive when this possibility is in the air,
and nerves were, no doubt, strained to break-
ing-point.
HORACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Horace was born at Bruni, and bred at
Bruni too,
And you’ll know him when yon see him if
you mind what I’m telling you.
For Horace is big and brawny, and his
speech is slow and blunt,
And he has a place down Bruni way—and
lie’s lost a tooth in front.
When you go through the gate at Horace’s,
down the road that’s hard and wide,
You’ll see the blackberry bushes growing
high and wild each side;
And over the moss-grown fences and over the
white-washed wall
A rose goes raipbling creamy-white, and the
sheltering pines are tall.
If you’re anywhere down near Horace's,
just about the time o’ spring.
You’ll see the purple foxgloves and hear the
daffodils ring,
For the daffodils are wild there, all about
and in the grass;
The yellow crocus grows there, too, and peeps
out as you pass.
Whatever the day, whatever the time, what-
ever the season, too,
Wherever he is and whatever he’s at, the
dog will bark at you,
But you won’t mind that when you’ve been
there once, for when H’orace comes in
sight.
It’s “Good-day to you” or “A fine large day”
or “Come in and have a bite.”
Horace was born at Bruni, and bred at
Bruni, too,
And you can’t mistake his homely face if
you mind what I’m telling you.
For Horace is big and brawny, and his
speech is slow and blunt,
And lie lias a place down Bruni way—and
lie’s lost, a tooth in front.
N.S.W.
PANDORA LEE.


N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS Ltd.
The World’s Largest Commercial Forestry Company.
Subscribed Share Capital .. .. .. , ( £241,341
Amount Subscribed for Bonds exceeds . . . , . . . , £3,660 000
Total Reserves approximately . . . . , , _ _ # # £9OO 000
Of which there is invested in Trustee Securities and
held by Bondholders’ Trustees approximately . . £500,000
Area Planted 146,285 acres
Bankers: Bank of New Zealand and Bank of Australasia.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: 20 Queen Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Norwich Union Building, Wayinouth Street, Adelaide.
SOUTH QUEENSLAND: Griffiths House, Queen Street, Brisbane
NORTH QUEENSLAND: Flinders Street, Townsville.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Royal Insurance Building, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Branches
Bombay,
throughout New Zealand and Australia, and Agencies at London,
ingapore, Shanghai, Hongkong, San Francisco, Vancouver and Paris.
SAVE AND PROFIT
Piling shillings one upon another may be a form of thrift, but it is a
risky method—and unprofitable. There is loss of profit because the
same money, placed in a Commonwealth Savings Bank, would earn
interest. There is risk of loss by fire, by burglary, even by inadvertence,
and, not so obvious but quite definite, there is the risk of temptation
to spend.
The Savings Bank Account is the logical place for your savings, for
there they both accumulate and earn interest. Thus your saving power
is multiplied, your savings become profitable, and you are less tempted
to spend wastefully.
Open your Account now.
€bmmonwcaltl) Savings lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government.)
“Weight-chaser”: One queer feature of
mining on the small outside shows in Vic.
is that ancient motor-cars are often em-
ployed in the place of the aforetime whim-
horse for hoisting the buckets; Usually the
old car wheezes backward and forward on
rope tyres, lowering and hoisting the buckets,
but sometimes the engine is taken out and
rigged. Whether the machines have learned
to do the work on their own initiative, as
the old-time noddies did, is not stated. Some
day, perhaps, another Ned Dyson will arise
to sing of the “Old Whim Car” as the first
one did of the “Old Whim Horse.”
* * * *
“Contact”; Air pilots have more unusual
experiences than most men, and one of them
struck a special issue in N.S.W. recently.
ALWAYS READY TO HELP.
BOSS: “I’ve lost a bay mare—you see it anywhere?”
JACKY: “Yess, Boss—I bin see it all right.”
BOSS ( hopefully ): “Where that one now?”
JACKY: “Oh, him bin—him bin somewhere, mine tinkit.”
Some time after he had taken off he heard
a peculiar noise somewhere in the ’plane
which he could not locate or identify. As
an air pilot trusts as much to ear as to eye
to tell him that everything is running sweetly,
he thought it up to him to investigate, so he
landed. At the end of the fuselage he found
one of , the aerodrome cats busily engaged m
massaging a batch of new-born kittens. It
w ? s faint mewing that had filled him
) vlth feai ’ s of something wrong in his all-
important engine,
Macropus : London s Zoo is feeling very
bucked over the birth of a female tree-
kangaroo, believed to be the first ever born
in captivity. The parents come from New
Guinea, and, like most of the other kanga-
roos> flourish in what might be supposed t<?
bo an uncongenial climate. Other varieties
of kangaroo breed freely in Europe and
elsewhere outside their native land, and
many of them are housed in the open the
year found. In her war memoirs, Princess
Henry of Pless, an Englishwoman, tells how,
when the meat shortage afflicted Germany,
kangaroos from her husband’s estate in
Silesia wore used to make up the deficiency.
* * * *
“Herpeton”: Two N.S.W. campers lately
bad a lively time with snakes. They had
gathered heaps of leaves for a bed, and when
one turned in he wa,s bitten on the arm by
a black snake which had jumped his claim,
His mate, with his bed close by, had exactly
the same adventure. His snake struck him
on the back, but the thick blanket saved him
from the fangs. The first man was marked
by the fangs, but here again the blanket
had saved him by absorbing the poison from
the short colubrine fangs, and no ill effects
resulted. A surveyor friend of the writer’s
once struck much the same trouble. Before
going out on the day’s traverse, lie told the
camp'cook to air his mattress, a woolbale
stuffed with leaves. When he went to bod
at night the mattress gave an exhibition of
a miniature earthquake. The snake which
was the cause of it was a good-sized carpet.
It must have crawled into the empty
bale while its contents were airing, and was
shut in when the unobservant chef stuffed
them back.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: In parts of Queensland it is
necessary to enclose all poultry soon
after sundown to escape the ravages of foxes
A woman at Greenmount who neglected that
precaution till it was nearly dark discovered
in the morning that slic had locked a fox in
with the fowls. He killed five hens and
seven chickens, then scratched a hole under
the netting and escaped. Next evening the
place was locked early, and a watch kept,
Hearing a commotion among the chooks an
hour or so after dark, the watchers crept
up, and found that , the brute had burrowed
in at the place where he had scratched his
way out. That was the end of him.
“C. Coral”: The axiom that “trade follows
the flag” has a new significance for the
Torres Strait native. Lately, the Abo-
riginal Department
has established
stores on the bigger
islands, where
Jimmy Susu and his
wife can make per-
sonal selection of
their requirements,
and where the pro-
verbial needle and
anchor are both
stocked, the latter
requisite being
almost as necessary
to these seafaring
people as the for-
mer. Jimmy at first
had the impression
that a store, like a
church, should never
be closed, and he
would trot along at
daybreak or even
knock up the Gov-
ernment teacher in
charge at midnight
if his tobacco supply
had petered out. A
signalling system has
therefore been de-
vised. Now when
Jimmy sees the
Union Jack proudly
waving over the
cocoanut fronds, he
knows the store is
open. Also he has
mastered “No flag,
no shop.”
*• * *
“M uldoo n” : A
simpler “dialect”
than “Lingo’s” (B.
14/12/’32) came into
use in Brisbane in
the ’eighties. The
construction was to
shift the first letter,
if a consonant, to
the end of the word,
and follow it with a
broad “a.” The
words give, bread,
swimmer, lingo, me,
would be rendered iv-gay, ed-bray, immer-
sway, ingo-lay, e-may. If the first
letter were a vowel, “lay” was tacked on
to the. end of the word, “out,” for instance,
becoming out-lay. . The nippers soon learned
to rat'tle off this lingo as fast as their mother
tongue.
* * * *
“44L.”: “Mundowie’s” theory of the origin
of the Barkly Tableland brumbies (B.
18/l/’33) is not quite correct. Undoubtedly
station mares got
away and joined up
with the wild mobs,
but a cruising brumby
stallion was usually
the recruiting agent.
The ownership of the
horses was vested in
Paddy Lennie, one of
the most picturesque
figures of the Terri-
tory of 20 years ago,
and most of the
“brumbies” carried his
brand. He had no
fixed place of abode—
you were liable to run
across him anywhere
between the James
and Rankin rivers—
and his means of live-
lihood were sketchy.
He wouldn’t sell a
horse bearing his
brand, he owned no
country and no money,
yet prior to the war
he had over 1(XX)
horses running bush
on Avon and Alexan-
dria. They became
such a nuisance that
in 1913 the Govern-
ment built a special
pound for his horses
on the Rankin, and
several mobs we re run
in. Paddy raised the
fees for one lot from
the Camooweal store-
keeper, and the others
had to be released or
they would have died
of starvation during
the legal period be-
tween pounding and
auction. Larry Nolan
in J. J. Hardie’s
novel “Cattle Camp,” which appeared in
The Bulletin, seems to have been drawn
from Barefoot Paddy, the Brumby King of
the Territory.
* * * *
“Shabash Bhai”: “P.D.” took a serious
risk in the first place when she engaged a
Tibetan for a bearer (B. l/2/’33), for, unless
the hillmen have changed radically of late
years, the subject of the Grand Lama is
LAPSES OF MEMORY.
MRS. DAGGS: “My, now, it’s raining, dearie, and you without an
umbrella.”
THE DEPARTING GUEST: “Yes, an’ I’ve been meaning to borrow
one for months; but I’ve always let the chance slip.”
the most unwashed person on earth. Con-
sidering the climate in which he has his
being, this is not surprising, but he adds to
his conservativeness in the matter of personal
ablution by never changing his clothes after
he has grown to man size. The fact that
“P.D.” asked the bearer to disclose his
methods of napkin-folding also stamps her as
a griffin. No hardened Anglo-Indian dreams
of inquiring into the methods of native ser-
vants, and, above all, those of the cook.
“Mai” : In the Papua that I knew the native
servant was the spice of existence, for one
never knew what atrocity he would commit
next. One fault to which all cookies were
hopelessly addicted was their manner of wip-
ing a plate when this was handed to a diner.
The thing might be perfectly clean, but it
rarely reached its destination before cookie
had given it a swift circumferential polish
on the rear elevation of the calico rami
which' he wore round his middle. Even if
he was a clean cookie, well supplied with
calicoes and addicted to washing them, the
action tended to disarm appetite.
* =!■• * *
“M.L.C.”: Australia is particularly rich
in varieties of the robin family. There are
the scarlet, the flame, the pink, the rose and
the yellow-breasted, as well as the black-and-
white and the dusky robin; the last is
found only in the Speck, which has been
dubbed “Robin Land” because most of the
species are abundant there, particularly the
beautiful little pink-breast, which is scarce
on -the mainland. The scarlet robin may be
easily distinguished from the flame by the
glossy-black plumage of the male and the
conspicuous patch of -white on the forehead.
The back of the flame is a dark grey and the
spot of white less noticeable. The yellow-
breasted shrike robin is a friendly little bird
found round most creeks, and lias a habit
of clinging thoughtfully to the side of a tree
when its brown back is scarcely distinguish-
able from the bark. It is popularly known
as “Yellow Bob” or “bush canary.” * Its nest
of bark and grasses is unique; it is easily
identified by the long strips of bark, arranged,
either for ornament or camouflage, to hang
round the outside. Usually it builds in
shrubs about four feet from the ground and
the male has a pretty habit of feeding his
mate on the nest.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: A new use for sisal hemp has
been devised by the Torres Strait islanders
The leaves are cleaned and split and care-
fully dried, and then made into laths about
an inch wide, which, fastened on to the
verandah posts of a house, make an excel-
lent lattice. Split bamboo and pandanus
leaf are both used for the same purpose
but the sisal hemp leaf appears to be most
durable.
SOCIALISATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“We-must socialise public credit by handing over
to the people the control of the ban liing system of
Australia.” — J. T. Lang, at Goulbum.
“He’s got idears,” said Joe the Boom, and
sucked upon his battered briar,
And spat with thoughtful emphasis in the
direction of the fire.
“He’s got idears, has Mister Lang. For all
the bricks and sneers and jeers
That hail on him from ev’ry side, you can’t
deny he has idears.
“He's great at pulling something new from
out his sleeve, an’ you can bet
There isn’t much he wouldn’t do pervided he
was only let.
But here’s the p’int,” said Joe the Boom:
“there’s always someone calling ‘check’;
A Labor cove wot goes too far is bound to
get it in the neck.
“He sez he’ll socialise the banks. It looks
you're taking chances, though,
By putting anybody wise that you intend to
grab their dough.
Forewarned, forearmed,” said Joe the Boom,
“and if Lang’s star again should rise,
I’ll lay a bob or two there won’t be much in
banks to socialise.
“What queues you'd see round ev’ry place
where cash is kept in trust, be gosh !
If rumors ran that there would soon be
Gov’ment fingers in the splosh.
Once bit, twice shy,” said Joe the Boom,
and paused again to deftly: spit;
“We’ve seen that sort o’ game before, an’
know too well what comes of it.
“He’s got idears,” said Joe the Boom, “has
Mister Lang, no flamin’ fear!
The trouble is he goes too fast an’ shows his
blinkin’ hand too clear.
This talk of socialising banks is only yappin’
through his hat.
Now, if he’d socialise .the pubs—there’d be
some bloomin’ sense in that!'’
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


The
asdf
Lower Tariff? Certainly! Lower Quality? Certainly not! Reduced
rates mean nothing if they involve reduction of comfort or service.
The famous Australia Hotel” standard of quality is maintained, but
at reduced prices, made possible by substantial reductions in prices of
raw materials
ROOM ONLY RATES:
Single Room from . . 10/6. Double Room from . . 20/-
asd
Sydney
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH.
Telegraphic Address:
“Austragtel, Sydney
SMOKE-OH!
Australians regard Sutcliffe as one of the
best batsmen out.
* *
Kingsford Smith certainly knows the way
from A to N.Z.
* *
THE 3INKS (1933) CREDIT PLAN.
It’s so simple that I’m in a chronic state
of amazement that nobody thought of it
before. It amounts, basically, to a complete
reversal of the bad old order of things. As
a case in point, we have always taken it for
granted that when I put ten bob on Three-
legs at Slowdown Park I must deposit the
cash with a bookie. Why? Let us assume
that the bookie is laying oto 1. Under my
Plan he deposits the £3 witli me. In other
words, he releases credit to that extent. If
Threelegs loses I try again. If I don’t pick
a winner all day, my credit is automatically
extended. Even if some bookies have to go
to work to gather the necessary credit for
their clients, it will be no more than mil-
lions of pdnters have had to do under this
cursed capitalistic system.
My plan also covers lottery tickets. They
will be issued on request and paid for when
the purchaser has a win. No more money
will be paid into banks ; instead, these use-
“But, Dad, a man must have a will
of his own.”
“Certainly — that’s why I’m cutting you out of mine!”
less institutions will have to disgorge the
credits they have been stifling for so long,
and go looking for people who will accept
loans from them at reduced rates of interest.
Unemployment will vanish, wages will
increase, and the life’s ambition of so many
deserving people of buying a pub and going
racing six days a week will be realised.
J. Binks
(Originator, the Binks Credit Plan).
Wanted: Someone capable of turning Test
matches into safety matches.
* #
“Leslie Victor, Campbell Oopelin, Harry Wotton,
Kenneth Brampton, Leslie Victor anrl Lou Vernon
added to a capable cast.” —“Sunday Sim.”
Rather like the English XI. which as all
know consists of Larwood, Jardine, Wyatt,
Larwood, Hammond, Ames. Larwood, Verity,
Sutcliffe, Allen and Larwood.
* *
Thousands will never work while they
can employ the beg-theory.
* *
“A Bpndi surf club official, referring to the
proposed amusement park, said that surf girls
would shed no tears.”
Well, they’ve got to stop somewhere.
FOUR STAGES OF A POLITICIAN.
H'e stands.
He sits.
He lies.
He lies still.
T.
*¥*
AMONG THE LADIES.
“000h —my dear, wasn’t that a perfectly
delightful hit over the heart?”
“Quate nace, but yesterday”
“Oh, pet, 100k —is that McCabe they’re
carrying off?”
“Quate. Seems to have put his eye in
front of it. Do they give them out ‘eye
before’ ? I’ve forgotten.”
“ —— too charming. Ponsford’s leg’s
broken.”
“Do they shoot them?”
“I can’t see who it is—his armor is cut
on rather severe lines”
“Darling! Darling! Bradman has sent
for another helmet.”
“How nauseating—l did so want to see
Bradman unconscious.”
C. S.
* *
THE FILM WAR.
The position roughly is that Australians
are determined to show His Royal Highness
the Hollywood combine that we have been
Sentimental Blokes long enough, and that in
future all films sent here must be On Our
Selection only.
Not all the films sent here have been bad
by any means.
To take a recent
case, we know of
many who were
tickled to death
with “H orse-
feathers.”
Nor are these
crook films all the
same. Some are
fairly crook, others
are very crook,
others again are
terrible. Not so
all the stars. Some
have large follow-
ing s. Ma n y a
Sydney clerk en-
vies Clark Gable,
and should Greta
Garbo decide to
pay us a visit a
large crowd of
flappers would un-
doubtedly be at
the wharf to
Greta. The Marx
Brothers have
made their marks,
and Jimmy Dur-
ante nose his
onions, while in
his own line of
galloping humor
Eddie Cantor
simply walks in.
In the meantime
there is talk of cer-
tain theatres clos-
ing, and as this
would mean num-
bers of ushers be-
ing thrown out of
employment just
as Stevens is try-
ing to usher in a
new era of pros-
perity, the spec-
tacle presents a
moving picture indeed.
Anyway, here’s hoping film distributor and
theatre owner will soon make-up again—
a"s the girls do every half-hour or so.
Film up again.
Univarsal Tahking Repahter signing off.
V. C.
* *
Grimmett hasn’t been able to get his
breaks to act this season.
CRICKETERS THROUGH THE
CENTURIES.
Henry VIII. —Didu’t take long to get set
with Ann Boleyn.
Dr. Gnulotin. —The first to use sawdust
on a sticky wicket. Originator of the art
of punishing high bouncers by using the cut
stroke. Bad-tempered. He lost his head
when he stopped a fast one in the neck.
David. —The first to realise the potentiali-
ties ‘in body-line bowling. Got the terrific
hitter Goliath with Ids first delivery.
Judge Jeffries.—' The greatest exponent of
swinging ever produced by England. Claimed
many victims through his knack of making
them hang in the air and drop quickly.
Methuselah. —Credited with the greatest
number of centuries, though owing to the
“Deuced funny—they went out in a rainstorm and came
back engaged.”
“H’m, yes, I know—got ringing wet.”
primitive method of scoring in his day
modern critics are sceptical as to the authen-
ticity of his records. It was while he was
in that a Biblical barracker first started
the cry, “They’ll never get ’im out!”
King Solomon. —Holder of world's record
in first-clqss company—soo. Fell to the
wiles of Sheba’s googly expert, who got
him with a wrong ’un.
Nero.- —Probably the greatest match player
the world has seen. At his best on a fiery
pitch.
Sir Francis Drake. —A slow bowler of
merit. Displayed great stamina by bowling
unchanged all the afternoon and then sink-
ing a good few.
Peeping, Tom. —First leg-before victim.
Had his eye in but couldn’t get anyone to
stop with him. Got reckless and lost sight
of one on the blind side. Afterwards
appointed a selector on ground that he ought
to be a good judge of form.
S. W. K.
v *
“Sir Stanley Jackson said that the Barylebone
Club had considered the Board of Control’s cable in
a conciliatory spirit.”— “Argus.”
Another victim of the ’flu ebidemic?
HONEYMOON’S END-
“Darling.” he sighed.
“Yes, darling.”
“Do you love me, darling?”
“Of course.”
“What are you thinking of, darling?”
“Nothing, darling: what are you?”
“Dinner, darling.”
P. C.
* *
“Portion of the receipts from cricket matches
should be devoted to the hospitals.”
But every first-class cricket match makes
contributions to the hospitals already.
* *
“The Chinese were cultured before the time given
in the Bible as that of the creation of Adam and
Eve.”
Hence the lines:
When Adam delved, and Eve span,
Ah 800 teas then a gentleman!
* *
“Concern is felt in Defence circles at the falling
off in the strength of the militia forces.” — “Herald.-'
Formerly it was noticeable only among
Light Horse recruits.
* *
FATE.
“Unlucky” was his middle name. Thrown
out of work at the beginning of the depres-
sion, he had the chance of several jobs in
turn; but something invariably intervened.
Expecting to start one Monday morning,
he found his new boss had died; a bank-
ruptcy cut out another place; he fell ill on
his way to a third.
He thought his luck was in at last for
six months’ steady work, but again bis hopes
were vain. The jury found him not guilty.
T. B. P.
THE BATHING-COSTUME MYSTERY.
“Spiffs have lost another bathing-cos-
tume,” said Blockhead. “They’re upset.
It’s their new Marvellous Model—the Cos-
tume of Next Season—the Dernier Cri in
Sea Wear.”
i , - vou combed the underworld?”
asked Holmes.
“Yes,” answered Block-
head, “and found a clue.
Jean Valerie is undoubted-
ly the thief, but on raiding
her flat we drew a blank.”
“You failed to make a
complete search,” diagnosed
the great detective. “Let
us call on Miss Jean
again.”
Arrived at the flat, Sher-
lock Holmes immersed
himself in thought.
Suddenly he aro s e,
grasped Jean and forced a
thermometer into her
mouth. He then led her
about the room. When the
south-west corner was
reached the thermometer
recorded increased heat.
Sherlock touched various
articles, on each occasion
reading the thermometer.
As he touched a handbag
the thermometer burst.
Holmes now emptied the
handbag’s contents on to a
table. Selecting a two-
shilling piece, lie blew the
face powder from it, and
examined it with gimlet
eyes. “As I expected,” he
burbled.
Beckoning Blockhead, he
said. “Let me show you
the missing garment.” And
as he punched King George
on the nose the coin open-
ed and revealed that it
was hollow.
“But where is The
~ Bathing-costume of Next
Season ?” asked Detective Blockhead “I
see nothing.”
“Exactly,” answered Holmes.
S. V.D.
CONDEMNED MAN (recognising hangman) :
“Well, if it ain’t Bill Jones! Hang me
if it ain’t!”
PILGRIMAGE.
A wind-swept coast with wave-worn rocks,
scourged ~by the wrathful sea;
Trees stunted and torn by the furies, dotting
the cheerless lea.
Yet gladly I come, though the wind is wild,
to this cold, and sorrowful place;
But not to ponder the angry waves nor to
glean from the landscape’s face
A promise ! of peace or enjoyment, a hope for
the hidden years,
A rest from life’s toil and trouble, a future
devoid of fears.
No; I seek with bitterness of soul, and a
bosom anger-tossed,
By the jagged base of the mighty cliffs for
that snapper-line I lost.
P. O. M. C.
HIS ORIME.
“Now who is that afflicted man
Who hangs so low his head?
Is he threatened by some mystic ban?
What is his secret dread?
As he walks the street the children sneer
And women draw aside,
While strong men curse and others jeer.
What faith has he denied?”
“Oh, worse than mystic ban or dread,
And worse than faith denied
Is yon stranger's fate. Be made a slip
That wrecked his native pride.
Trusted but traitor, he took the floor
In the grand old Mother State,
And referred to the Lang Plan No. Jj
When he should have said No. 8.”
OH GEE.


Death.
ETENNELL. —On October 29, 1931, Erwin
A Charles Fennell, aged 61.
THE BVTRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM TP WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AN AUTOMATIC
STOCK COUNTER FOR CONTROLLING
PAPER CUP STACKING MECHANISM.
'"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 20850/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A CONICAL CUP
DISPENSER.
'THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 24717/30 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith. Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A HOLDER AND
METHOD OF TRANSFERRING
STACKED SUNDAE CUPS FROM CUP
STACKING MACHINES INTO CARTONS.
’"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 11543/23 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A ROTARY
SUNDAE DISH FORMING MACHINE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 1165/26 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A RECEPTACLE
AND BLANK THEREFOR.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 5421/22 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
“CAPPING MACHINE FOR
CONTAINERS.”
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
*■ No. 24716/30 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
PAPER CUP BLANK.
'THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 24468/30 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A CUP BLANK
PUNCHING MACHINE.
"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 20849/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel.
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
2 ' - *
Sfllitif^iiS
B i||
fij
***;
Id
**
i
■
,lj
: -v£k&
a
m
m
m i
32fs&
l
-raw?
-4^
% New Travel Opportunity
Australian passengers to and from England
are now offered the opportunity of travelling
First or Second Saloon at reduced rates, en-
joying all the refinements and comforts asso-
ciated with the P. & O. Company's modern
fleet, which includes the four largest pas-
senger vessels serving Australia.
MONGOLIA (Tourist)
leaves Sydney Feb. 24
MALOJA (Ist and 2nd)
leaves Sydney March 8
STRATHNAVER
(Ist and Tourist)
leaves Sydney March 24
and fortnightlythereafter
Agents
in all States
and
New Zealand.
fasdfasdf
POML 2
SHADOW SHOWS.
“Robber’s Roost,” at Sydney Haymarket,
is an unusually satisfactory Western,
George O’Brien is the two-fisted, six-shootin’
, s „ ~ T . .
he-man who, flying from the Law, joins ui
with William Pawley, a rascally ranch fore-
man, out after the possessions of his English
employer. The kindness and helplessness of
the owner (Reginald Owen) appeal to
George, and the arrival of Maureen O’Sulli-
van, Reginald’s sister, does the rest. The
gang and Maureen are overcome by the
heroic young man’s prowess in one act, so
to speak. The film is so natural and intelli-
cent in «nots— Owen and his aunt Maude
TSs S 3)
producer is in danger of being damned foi
a highbrow by normal patr ns of t 1
ot entertainment.
“Black Coffee, a British film, taken fiom
Agatha Christies stage play, is also at the
Haymarket. The direction and camera-work
are unimaginative and old-faslnoned—
Elstre.eish to a degree. The story concerns
the pinching of the formula of a high ex-
plosive and the murder of its discoverer.
Hyoscine is introduced to his coffee after
he has switched the lights off in order to
give the purloiner of the formula a chance
to return it. Hercule Poirot, France’s
answer to Sherlock Holmes, clears up the
mystery, to the relief of a number of inno-
cents whom the thick-headed police suspect,
Austin Trevor is Poirot, Adrianne Allen
makes a passable Lucia Amory, and C. V.
France is the discoverer of the formula.
,
* * * .
“Jewel Robbery,” at Sydney Regent, is
“Trouble in Paradise” all over again with
William Powell mis-cast as the crook who
becomes infatuated with his wealthy victim
and returns her stolen gauds. Powell is
credible in American gangsters, but as a
Raffles, the “fatal man” of a lovely Viennese,
he wouldn’t deceive a resident of the U.S.A’s
Middle West. Kay Francis employs the same
mannerisms, wears much the same frocks
and moves in the same preposterously luxu-
rious surroundings as in the other film. It
takes 12 maids to dress her and one, chosen
f or physique, to carry her from the couch
on which she is dried after her bath to the
arm-chair in which she has her hair done.
The picture is strong m comedy situations,
most of which owe their inspiration to
French farce. Powell gives drugged cigar-
cites io Spencer Charters, the fatuous watch-
man of a jeweller’s shop, and the watchman
passes them on to others. It would have
been an aphrodisaic at the- Palais Royal,
All the minor parts are delightfully played
by a hand-picked Anglo-American cast, and
f be elaborate settings have been brilliantly
Photographed. If there was a chance of the
fi,m being taken seriously it would constitute
sft «*£ San
an y t hi n g that can be heard in the Domain,
but the thing is even more obviously a fan-
tasy than Lubitsch’s amusing production.
“Speed Demon” is another one about rae-
-n olT tboard motor-boats. The story
drags in nearly every idea known to melo-
drama, including a hero (William Powell.
j mi .) who takes to drink and is repudiated
by the round-eyed, toothy heroine (Joan
Marsh) ; a comic policeman in pursuit of
a small boy, who is saved from the Law and
adopted by the now-ruined hero; a batch
of villains, aristocratic and otherwise, who
conspire against the hero, and a grand finale,
The hero rescues the abducted small
boy in the nick of time, arriving by car
(with comic policeman in pursuit) to take
over from the heroine the motor-boat which
her father has built, win with it on the post,
a P f J be greeted with a long kiss from the
girl and a forgiving handshake from the
policeman as he steps ashore. The shots
fade into one another with such speed that
it is easy to follow the lunatic plot without
listeninsr to the talk. Which is all to the
good, since most of the dialogue is as stupid
as the photography is clever,
* * *
The patrons of Hoyt’s de Luxe, Mel-
bourne, are being kept chained to their seats
for longer than the scheduled time by two
new Efftee Films productions. In “Har-
mony Row” George Wallace joins the Vic-
torian police and brings the force into dis-
repute in a series of farcical adventures.
There is a skit on the mystery play im-
bedded in the whirl of slapstick. The final
incident, in which George meets a leading
Melbourne gangster in the prize ring and
wins a somewhat shadowy heroine, is devas-
tatingly funny. The picture only seems too
long because it lacks a strong story, which
was a fault of Wallace’s previous vehicle,
“His Royal Highness.”
“Diggers in Blighty” is Pat Hanna’s
sequel to his “Diggers.” It belongs to the
Bruce Bairnsfather school of humor, with
a dash of Steele Rudd and a spice of roman-
tic melodrama thrown in for makeweight.
There is an English captain who is detailed
to simulate inebriety so that a beautiful
German spy can abstract a faked map of
a mythical offensive out of his pocket. An
English nurse, in love with the officer,
observes the proceedings and comes to the
usual wrong conclusions. Duty compels the
officer to maintain silence, and the matter
is not cleared up until the A.1.F., having
made an attack in a sector unsuspected by
the Germans, gain@ a great victory, the
most important feature of which is that
the officer gets the damsel. While these
tremendous events are occurring George
Moon, Joe Valli and Pat Hanna are
engaged on leave in shocking the sense of
propriety of an English hostess. If Holly-
wood hadn’t invented the War, or at any
rate, the war film, the principal characters
would have been hayseeds down for the
Cup who get invited by mistake to a Toorak
dinner party. On its unsophisticated plane
the film is replete with matter for hilarity,
and leaves the spectator in the comfortable
assurance that the art of the film is in no
immediate danger of growing up under the
management of its present entrepeneurs.
Hanna has a sense of the ridiculous and a
good feeling for local color. The photo-
graphy is fine, and the fact that the film
was made in Melbourne, though it deals
with France and England, is concealed with
remarkable ingenuity.
“E.M.” : A school for the technical side of
iilm-making has been started by the Gaumont-
Britisli people. It provides a year’s course,
terminable on either side at the end of three
months. At all stages weekly reports on the
student’s progress are sent in from the
various departments. The’pay for the first
three months is five shillings a week, rising
to 10s. and 20s. as the year goes on. On
admission, the apprentice is given a book to
read —the current textbook is “Bulldog Drum-
mond” —and on the film treatment of this
story is obliged to answer an examination
paper. Three months later the same paper
is set again. After six months of general
study you begin to specialise. By then, the
serious student will have some idea not only
of the rounded picture, but also of his in-
dividual bent, whether it be for sound,
camera-work, cutting or continuity-writing.
If he makes good he will be taken on the
staff. Already youngsters in colored pull-
overs swarm over the sets at Shepherd’s
Bush.
“Norbell”: Dorothy Gish, beloved of
fillum addicts, has replaced Patricia Collinge
in “Autumn Crocus” at the Moroseo
Theatre, N.Y. Francis Lederer squeezed
Patricia so ardently that she skied the
grease-towel, hence Dorothy’s chance —she
doesn’t mind he-men, seemingly. This
Lederer is the actor who in London, in “The
Cat and the Fiddle,” hugged Peggy Wood
so passionately that he cracked a rib for her.


Q
V
s
Ct&P
m
'I am the Q.P.S. Catalogue.
BUILDERS’ HARDWARE, Nails.
THREE-PLY, Joinery.
PAINTS, Oils.
STOVES AND RANGES, Boiler
Stands.
SHEEP AND CATTLE DIPS, Licks,
Sprays, Fertilisers and General
Station Lines.
SEPARATORS, Churns, Cream
Cans.
MOTOR SPIRIT, Oils, Greases.
SADDLERY.
AT LAST, THE
Q. P. S.
CATALOGUE
NINTH EDITION COMPLETE. We
apologise for the delay in completing
it owing to the rush of business. All
names sent in will receive this ninth
edition within the next week, and
others interested on application. It
brings you right up to date with latest
prices of
FENCING WIRE, Wire Netting, Drop-
pers, Gates.
GALVANISED IRON, Rainwater
Goods, Troughing, Baths.
TELEPHONE MATERIAL.
CANVAS GOODS.
HIBISCUS BORING PLANT.
BLINDS.
SPORTING GOODS.
SPRAY PUMPS.
MACHINERY, Ploughs, Pumps, Saw
Benches.
FURNITURE.
TOOLS for Engineers and Builders,
Agricultural, Forks, Hoes, Axes.
ALL GROCERY LINES, etc.
On Barb Wire, Fencing Wire, Hinge Joint Fencing, Wire and
Netting, Chain Fencing, Autoscrew Droppers, Hibiscus Steel
Fencing Posts and New Era Separators
Freight is Paid Free to Maryborough, Bundaberg, Gladstone,
Rockhampton, Mackay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns.
YOU CAN’T BEAT THE Q.P.S.
We supply anyone direct at wholesale prices in any quantity. Buy direct
and bank the difference. We have no agents whatsoever. It is a condition
of purchase with us that our prices are never higher than any other whole-
sale house, otherwise the buyer has the right to deduct the difference.
BIG 200-PAGE COPYRIGHTED CATALOGUE POSTED ON REQUEST.
Write to-day—it will save you pounds.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty.,Ltd.
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
Farmers!
liilllllliillllllllilllllllllliiliiiiliiiii*
Specify your requirements
of SUPERPHOSPHATE
to be
“PACKED IN PAPER BAGS”
No extra charge.
Better protection for the super.
Half the weight—94lb. instead of 1871 b.
Easier to handle.
Saves time when drilling.
V - .
m
S :
WAILS
11111811*
: PLIABLE
.
Rr ii
,* PAPE
BATES*
MULTI-WALL
SEWN PAPER BAGS.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
AUSTRALIAN FERTILIZERS, LTD.,
5 MACQUARIE PLACE ----- SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed—— .think of
/ SCHUTE,
BELL & O Ltd.
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Briit* Strut. Sylnty.
w
IT LEADS IN
MINING AND FINANCE.
THE PERTH
the largest newspaper
IN WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Authentic information gathered from
most reliable quarters is published
in each issue. Gold-mining in the
West is booming. Your investments
for 1933 need careful consideration
—let the "Sunday Times” be your
guide.
THE GOLD YIELD
for 1932 exceeded 600,0000 z., and
the value, including premium,
totalled £4,374,000.
ADVERTISE IN THE BIG SUNDAY
PAPER IN CLOSE TOUCH WITH
THIS VALUABLE MARKET.
A Gold Mine for Advertisers !
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
u
ARMERS
o o o
RuralTopics.Dairying.
Stockbreeding. Poultry.
Horticulture .Veterinary
.. Notes Etc .... All in „
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES C>S
asdf
asdf
The New Ford 2-Ton Truck—ls 7 in. wheelbase-
—with closed cab and dual rear wheels•
STARTING FEBRUARY 14:
A SPECIAL SHOW OF THE
NEW FORD TRUCKS
Interesting mechanical exhibit # Full range
of models # Demonstrations of transport
units from 1 to 5 tons capacity # Powered
with 50 horse-power engine manufactured by
the new Ford Plant, at Dagenham, England.
ENGLAND
yf Product of the British Empiro
at
MELFORD MOTORS PTY. LTD.
DOMINION MOTORS LTD.
COSSEY MOTORS PTY. LTD.
DALGETY & CO. LTD. -
LYNAS MOTORS LTD. -
- 621-633 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
- C/r. WATTLE & THOMAS STREETS, ULTIMO, SYDNEY
302 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
71.79 FRANKLIN STREET, ADELAIDE
960-966 HAY STREET, PERTH
N.T.2
FORD MOTOR
COM PAN Y OF AUSTRALIA PTY.
LTD.


sd
<35
INS-I
DERFECT LIFE
to DIAMOND RADIO BATTERIES /
'J’HE internaJ insulation of a radio
battery is vitally important. In any
battery, a leakage of electricity or chemi-
cals may occasionally occur from one
cell. if this affects other cells the
battery quickly fails.
Now—Diamond embodies a new ex-
clusive insulation material, used in a
new way. It is proof against either
chemical or electrical leak-
age. It isolates every cell,
and absolutely removes any
chance of a leakage spreading. It is
the only 100% perfect insulation made!
The illustration at right shows the new
Diamond method of isolating each cell
in a perfectly insulated compartment, en-r
tirely protected from leakage on sides
and bottom. It is at the base of the cells;
where corrosion is most dangerous. No'
other battery protects this danger spot.
“Perfect Insulation” gives Diamond
many months of extra life.
n
mm
RADIO BATTERIES - TOR-CH REFILLS
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
PALATABILITY OF GRASSES.
“U. Murray”: To all graziers the palat-
ability of any herbage is of the first im-
portance ; where fattening is the objective,
this quality outweighs all others. In the
average Australian fattening paddock three-
quarters of the year’s growth of herbage is
wasted. At the same time certain spots and
certain species will be eaten into the ground.
To bring the whole area into the condition
of these choice spots is the ideal that haunts
the pasture-improver. Towards that end the
first step is to go over such fattening pad-
docks in the various seasons of the year
with an eye to every detail of the different
growths. The lighter the stocking the more
evident the lessons to be learned.
I set down a few facts observed at
midsummer on numbers of fattening pad-
docks located on inland river flats. English
rye-grass ; Gone to seed ; 90 p.c. untouched.
Kangaroo-grass: Perhaps 25 p.c. eaten.
Wallaby-grass: Only touched where inter-
mingled with trefoils. Meadow-foxtail:
Neglected owing to the swampy situations in
which it grows. Oat-, barley-, silver-grasses
(all the annuals, in fact) : Untouched since
•seed stalks began lo show. The annual tre-
foils : All well grazed, sub. clover especially;
grazing of this latter species continued after
drying-off. White clover; Closely grazed,
except in rank and foul places. Birdsfoot
trefoil: Closely grazed, even in rank places.
On the whole the legumes were beyond all
comparison more closely grazed than the true
grasses, paspalums excepted.
Nothing could be more striking than the bare,
green patches of Paspalum dilitatum, with
the best of the English grasses around them
standing untouched. P. distiohum was also
eaten out, except where growing in foul
swamps. Common couch-grass, where, burned
off in the winter, was also well grazed, but
was passed over where mingled with the old
dead growth. All the perennial grasses,
foreign and native alike, showed that burn-
ing-off greatly added to their attractiveness.
What is known on the N.S.W. South
Coast as dairy-grass showed more signs of
stock-preference than any other native grass.
After inspection a man could not help wish-
ing that he could destroy about 90 p.c. of
the existing species of allegedly edible her-
bage, and replace with the paspalums, sub.
white and birdsfoot clovers, with a sprink-
ling of love- and kangaroo-grasses on the
drier parts.
Of course, the foregoing was a mid-
summer estimate. Midwinter would tell a
different tale.
THE GOOD DOER.
“R.F.G.”: It is not only for extra rations
that a cow, good doer or otherwise, will
break through fences into places where
“Trespassers Will Be Prosecuted.” Especi-
ally is this so on small farms. When con-
fined to these small areas, cows get tired
of going over and over the same old feed.
Like ourselves they will do anything for
a change. As “Jack Point” (B. 25/l/’33)
says, this may be supplied in the form of
bran or oilcake: but cows need roughage
as well —something hard and coarse to clean
out the bowels and keep them in good work-
ing order. That is why when Topsy gets
into the garden she will often make straight
for the hedges and shrubs or some other
equally unusual thing, even though there
may be tall, succulent grass handier to her.
Such roughage is Topsy’s medicine. Here
(Tamvvortli, N.S.W.) cows fed constantly
on green lucerne show the same craving for
a change of feed and some roughage.
Recently I bought a load of green stringy-
bark poles. These were stripped and the
bark was throwrn on the woodheap. Along
came the cows and had a great feed. Start-
ing at one end of a long, narrow strip of
rough, fibrous bark they chewed contentedly
until it was safely -stowed inside. Then
they’d have another. I had all sorts of
misgivings about impaction and dry bible
until I remembered reading that monkeys,
when kept in captivity, are allowed free
access to sawdust, the little daily dose of
which keeps their insides clean and in work-
ing order. It acts as a scrubber. I let the
cows have their scrubbing outfit. In . a
couple of months they had cleaned it all
up and were decidedly more contented and
profitable for it.
Incidentally, I have often noticed stray
cows on the roads nibbling the bark of the
council’s pepperina-trees. This in spite of
there being plenty of grass.
THE BULL.
“Mulyan” : “Never trust a bull” is a maxim
that should be impressed on everyone who
has to move among cattle, particularly on
children. Frequently one reads of farmers
and dairymen being suddenly attacked by
bulls they had regarded as docile. There
is always some latent aggressiveness behind
this apparent docility. A beast that appears
to be as quiet and trustworthy as a cow
will turn viciously on an owner who has
sliowui him every care and kindness. No
doubt he gets fits of bad humor, as his
boss does ; but combativeness is inherent in
his character, and there is always an urge
within him to use those powerful horns.
Often you will see him gratifying the natural
impulse by twisting and tearing a tough
shrub or digging the horns into a knob and
throwing the soil over his back.
You can make a pet of a cow, which
responds to kindness, but it is folly to try
to make a pet of a bull, though you have
had it from calfhood. Antagonism comes
with maturity, and grows with age. Some
dairymen tell you never to throw anything
at a bull or walk round him ; make him shift
if he is in the way, and punish him to teach
him his place if he is obstreperous or in-
clined to be bossy. But a bull, if ill-treated,
will nurse a grudge somewhat after the
manner of the elephant.
The most treacherous bulls I have known
were stable-fed animals. The Ayrshire,' in
dairy herds, was the least untrustworthy,
though I would never purposely go close in
front of his horns. The Jersey impressed
me as one to be particularly wary of. Like!
the Aldcrneys, the Jerseys are a notably
docile breed, but the lord of the herd is a
beast that no fellow can know.
Bulls should be dehorned and also ringed.
This is. essential where there are children.
Dehorning can be done simply and painlessly
during calfhood by damping the horn buds
and rubbing them with a stick of caustic
potash, taking care not to rub the surround-
ing skin. A bull that has been deprived of
his goring instruments is very different in
character from his armed brother. He
seems to lose much of his dominating manner
and native aggressiveness.
THE ABERDEEN ANGUS.
“Beefo” : For crossing wkh Shorthorn and
Hereford cows the Aberdeen Angus is in-
creasing in popularity. Returns to breeders
have shown the influence this breed has on
the quality of the beef. An early-maturcr,
the Aberdeen Angus bull imparts superior
qualities to its stock. The type has proved
its worth in many parts of Queensland ;
pure breeds or crosses have graded a big
percentage of first-quality beef at the works.
Besides being good doers, they are easily
worked and handled and do not become
stirred up as do Herefords and Shorthorns.
Once prime, they hold their condition re-
markably; they seem to stand long droving
or train journeys far better than other breeds.
Contentment is a feature of the Aberdeen
Angus, as also is the even distribution of
beef on its carcase.
The introduction of Aberdeen Angus bulls
into a herd that is inclined to run out will
have a marked effect on the young stock.
MUSTERING SHEEP FOR SHEARING.
“Booraby”; Shearing-time is generally a
hard time for the woollies. While I was
helping to muster on far-west N. S. Wales
runs the, methods employed appeared to me
to impose unnecessary hardship on the
animals. Some of the paddocks were a long
way from the shed; and they were all big
paddocks. Musterers started out early in
the morning. Sheep were rounded up from
corners of paddocks, hustled along the way,
rushed and crowded at the gates, and finally
at the yards. By the time they got back
again, many had been two days without food
and water.
Except in bountiful seasons, sheep in those
western districts fare harder than in other
parts, and the shearing period is conse-
quently more severe, particularly on ewes
and lambs. At some places they suffer even
worse at lamb-marking time, where there are
not sufficient yards to save long travelling.
Because of the nature of the country and
the climate, these two periods put a check
on sheep from which it takes them a con-
siderable time to recover, besides causing
deaths among the weaker animals.
All this could be avoided, at shearing-
time, by having a small, well-watered pad-
dock at the shed. Sheep mustered at a dis-
tance, after being steadily brought in, should
be put into the paddock instead of directly
into the yards, and let back into the pad-
dock w’hen shorn. Sheep usually water
in the evening or at night, and after a long
dusty journey they need water badly when
they get to the shed. A drink and a rest on
the pasture there recuperate them for the
next ordeal —the rush through the shed. The
paddock should be well sheltered to provide
against sudden changes of weather. A bit
of scrub will shelter them from cold winds,
but if there is danger of a wet night they
should spend it in the shed.
In good seasons hundreds of tons or
Mitchell grass—which makes capital hay—
can be cut in the valleys and on the plains
of western runs. A stack of that in the pad-
dock repays the grazier by refreshing and
strengthening the animals when the paddock
is bare of natural pasturage, or has been
eaten out by the earlier mobs. In many
places the provision of fodder trees and
shrubs will carry sheep through the shearing
in a bad season.
BULLAWARRIE STUD SHEEP.
“Wen”: What can be done in the way
of sheep-raising in north-western N. S.
Wales was amply demonstrated at an exhi-
bition of stud sheep on Bullawarrie station,
near Dareel, just over the Queensland border
from Mungindi. Bullawarrie is conspicuous
for Mitchell grass and saltbush; and in
spite of the dry season the sheep are in fine
condition, the fleeces pf excellent quality.
The stud was founded in 1910 by Duncan
Livingston. He started, with Haddon Rig
ewes which were mated with Haddon Rig
and Wanganella rams. Eight rams bought
between 1922 and 1926 cost upwards of 200
guineas apiece. In 1929 the brothers Liv-
ingston paid 1100 guineas for a special ram.
Bullawarrie this year has 1400 two-tooth
rams and about 5000 stud ewes for distri-
bution. Seventeen high-grade Bullawarrie-
bred rams, carrying strong-medium fleece
and long, dense staple, attracted the parti-
cular notice of visitors, who included
Queenslanders. A special stud ewe, Minnie
Mac, cut 21Jlb. of fleece when a two-tooth
and 19$lb. when a four-tooth rearing a lamb.
Bullawarrie is watered by the Moonie.
SEX DETERMINATION.
“Xeropliyte”: I hesitate before criticising
the statements of a Harley-street surgeon,
but as one who firmly believes that man
was never intended to interfere with sex
ratios I cannot allow Dr. McCullagh’s
letter to pass unchallenged. The doctor
apparently makes no attempt to reconcile
his theory with-that of Mendel, now accepted
and highly elaborated by modern geneticists.
Indeed, from the rather brief statement of
fact in B. l/2/’33, the two theories appear
to conflict. Now Mendelism has yielded
such accurate results both in laboratory and
field (in many cases these have come out
with almost mathematical precision), and
lias explained so many things that refused
to fit into earlier theories, that before
McCullaghism can be accepted it must first
disprove Mendel’s theory of inheritance. This
produces ample evidence to show’ that chro-
mosome distributions resulting from the
union of two cells is such as to preserve
numerical equality of the sexes.
In a certain genus of fruit fly (Droso-
phila) it has been shown that one pair
of chromosomes controls the sex, and the
chances of the offspring being either sex
are equal. Uonfirmatory evidence is found
in a certain type of factor inheritance
termed sex linkage, in which a certain factor
carried by the sex chromosome is, in the
second hybrid generation, distributed un-
equally, but in a definite and constant ratio,
between the sexes. Cases of sex-linked fac-
tors are few in mammals and birds, but
sufficient exist to show that similar forces
are at w’ork to maintain numerical sox
equality, just as in the case of Drosophila.
Those referred to are tortoise-shell coloring
in cats, high winter egg-production in fowls,
and color blindness in humans. In fact, dis-
tribution of color blindness in humans has
been found to be of exactly the same type
as a certain sex linkage (white-eye color)
in Drosophila. Breeding evidence in these
cases lias been supported by cytological
examination. It is clear, therefore, that
sex in mammals is inherited along normal
Mcndelian lines, so w’hat loophole does this
leave for the introduction of control
methods?
Admittedly there are cases on record of
abnormal sex distribution in certain fami-
lies, but it is possible that these may be
accounted for by the presence of a lethal
sex-linked factor, such as occurs in Droso-
phila. (The presence of this factor could
prevent the development of fertilised ovum
or subsequent life of the individual carrying
the factor in its genetic constitution, and
would be active in one sex only.) There is
also the possibility to be considered of a
difference in size and activity of male- and
female-producing spermatozoa. It is a pity
that Dr. McCullagh did not discuss his
theory more amply. A further exposition
would be welcome.
AN EXCELLENT RABBIT-BAIT.
“Old Toolong” : The bait chiefly used by
experts for rabbit-poisoning with strychnine
is Scotch thistle roots, but in many cases
these are very hard to procure. It doesn’t
matter; the common .scrub known as priekly-
bush or blackthorn is a better bait, and can
be more easily prepared. Mattock out roots
and cut with secateurs into baits (the ideal
size is a quarter-inch of pencil), stripping
the bark from the larger roots and using
it. Having cut your baits, wash them in
a clean kero, tin, with plenty of holes in
the bottom ; while they are still damp, but
not dripping, transfer to a sound bucket
and work in a cup of white sugar to a half-
bucket of roots. Cover up while this melts
and sweats in, slinking up frequently.
This quantity of baits will run into several
thousands, and will require 2oz. of finely
powdered strychnine, which cannot be
worked in too thoroughly. That, done, cover
up and sweat again. The sun-drying neces-
sary with thistle-roots is not advisable with
this bait. Lay out with tongs, in the late
afternoon, on chipped patches or in furrows
where the rabbits most congregate.
SELECTING SEED MAIZE.
“A.C.8.”: On the right choice of maize
seed for the new 7 season depends the future
crop. Many farmers take the best from'
the cobs in the barn. The proper method
is to start selecting your seed whilst the
crop is yet only half-grown. Mark speci-
ally good stalks which have an even setting
of cobs, at least two to the stalk. Tie some
white cloth on selected stalks and go over
them a few weeks later, discarding those not
up to requirements. Do this eventually in
the field when pulling the corn.
The next and final selection should be
made in the barn. Retain only cobs that
are well filled and taper nicely. Cobs hav-
ing pinched or uneven grains and cobs
whose grain does not run fairly straight
should also be discarded. The character-
istics required must be in the parent plant.
That is why barn selection is unsatisfactory.
There is no way of telling in the barn what
kind of stalk the plant had, whether it was
a good doer, and produced even cobs —not a
big one and a small one, or two small ones;
in that case the tendency in the parent plant
was two-thirds small and one-third large,
and therefore to be avoided in reproduction.
In most districts maize when stored will
soon develop weevil. Seed should therefore
be enclosed in an airtight receptacle. Some
N.S.W. districts, such as Dorrigo anti
Tumut, produce maize not affected by weevil,
the grain being seemingly too hard for the
insect.
BACTERIAL BLIGHT OF BEANS.
Blight-proof bean-seed has been advertised
for sale in N. S. Wales. According to the
Minister of Agriculture there is no such
thing. He allows, however, that certain
strains may be less liable to infection than
others, and that reasonably clean seed may
be obtained by systematic eradication of
blighted plants where infection has been light
and the environment is not favorable to the
rapid spread of the disease. The department
is working on these lines, and the Minister
is emphatically of opinion that its efforts
are not seconded by misdescription of goods
by private traders concerned only to make
quick sales.
“ J.W.W.”: Bacterial blight visited my
beans in an isolated Gippsland hill district
10 years ago, and has shown itself in nearly
every wet and windy season since. At first
we would pull up any sickly-looking plants
and burn them. That answered for a time,
but other methods had to be adopted. Two
years ago I had a- small area of beans
in Gippsland and another in Swan Hill,
north-west Victoria. Both were put in in
October, and after striking and starting off
well they both went down in one windy,
stormy week. Not a few plants here and
there; blight got the lot. I was advised to
mow them down and let them dry, and burn
the whole ground where they lay. In the
north-west this was easy; I burnt the lot,
ploughed the ground again and resowed
before the ashes could blow’ away. The
result was a fine vigorous growth of beans
(from the same seed as before), which re-
sisted all attacks till mature. After taking
tw r o pickings of green beans from these I
ripened them off and got 48 bushels to the
acre, worth fl a bushel.
The Gippsland crop had to be turned over
twice before being dry enough to be fired.
Even then it was deemed desirable to scatter
a load of old straw over it to ensure a good
fire and the cleaning-up of the diseased
plants. After burning, the ground was again
ploughed at once and all the ashes turned in.
New seed w r as sown in one-half of the ground
and a sample of the first seed was put into .
the other half. The season in Gippsland ‘
being shorter, it was thought best not to pick
any green beans but to let them all ripen.
This they did very evenly, and the yield was
73 bushels to the acre of good seed, but there
v’ere more rejects than in the n.-w. crop. In
both cases the beans were perfectly clean.
This goes far to support the view that the
(Continued on next page .)


fasdfasd
The toughest sole
leather. . . .doubled!
That, and the comfortable,
finely-made upper, account for
the longer service the Abbey
Cossack gives. It’s a rugged
boot for all-weather wear. . . .
for the hardest type of going.
The upper is lined with soft
leather.... the Abbey Cossack
is extra comfortable as well as
extra strong. It outwears any
ordinary work boot.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin) or one of the
handy cleaning outfits (2/6 com-
plete).
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 407-
Black Box Calf . . . . 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW
GEORGE STREET ADDRESS
No. 316 ALMOST DIRECTLY
OPPOSITE THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 320
D
U
L
U
X
REGD. TRADE MARK
THE MIRACLE FINISH
Not a paint, varnish, lacquer
or enamel .... An entirely
new finish for all types of
surfaces backed by the repu-
tation of one of the finest
research and control labora-
tories in the world. Learn
how DULUX FINISH can
reduce maintenance costs,
give increased protection and
save money for you. Infor-
mation without obligation.
Obtainable from principal Oil and Colour
Merchants in all States
British Australian Lead
Manufacturers Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE SYDNEY ADELAIDE
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF N.S.W.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
NINE DAYS 10th to 19th APRIL, 1933 FIVE NIGHTS
£14,000 PRIZES £14,000
ENTRIES CLOSE.
HORSES (including Trotting Events) March 4
CATTLE and PIGS March 6
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CANARIES and CAGE BIRDS March 1 1
DOGS and CATS March 13
AGRICULTURE (other than Wheat), including FRUIT and
APICULTURE March 10
WINE March 13
DAIRY PRODUCE (except Export Classes) March 10
WOOD-CHOPPING CONTESTS March 20
Schedules and Entry Forms on Application.
Endeavor House, G. C. Somerville,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney. Secretary.
fasdfa
CONSULT US ABOUT
YOUR SHOW HARNESS
We will make to your own
specifications and give you the
benefit of our long experience
in fitting out prizewinners.
Brass, Rubber and Gold, or Rubber
and Silver Mounted Harness with
Rounded Traces, etc., is favored
for the Easter Show.
WE HAVE
HOLEY DRIVING WHIPS
SPECIAL DRIVING BITS
NEAT PATTERNS IN DRIVING
KNEE DUST RUGS
FOR THE SHOW-RIDER
ALL-OVER OR SEMI-PIGSKIN
SADDLES ALWAYS ATTRACT
ATTENTION
SHOW BRIDLES, in Rich Nut-Brown Leather, White Buff' Leather, White Webbing
or Plaited Kangaroo Leather.
SPECIAL SHOW SADDLE-CLOTHS, with Initials or Monograms.
WEBBING GIRTHS, SUPER ENGLISH STIRRUP-LEATHERS, BITS AND
STIRRUPS.
FOR CATTLE
BULL-LEADERS, NOSE-RINGS, LEATHER HEADCOLLARS AND HALTERS,
TAILCOMBS, CURRYCOMBS, BRUSHES, ETC.
W T rite for Our Saddlery Catalogue No. 329 —It Will Interest You.
WALTHER & STEVENSON Ltd.
SADDLERS,
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
early beans catch the disease but later ones
escape it. The wet and windy conditions
which spread it among the early beans are
usually modified down to normal before the
later ones arrive. Fire is the great cleanser
in plant diseases. After this I intend to
burn my bean ground before ploughing.
COPING WITH CUTWORMS.
In Gippsland and other parts of Australia
considerable damage is being done to crops
and pastures this season by cutworms. C.
French, junior, writing in the Yic. “Agri-
cultural Gazette,” suggests that these pests
could be exterminated from a district by con-
certed effort on the part of farmers; but
this, as painful experience shows, is very
hard to obtain. Mr. French recommends the
following methods of tackling the cutworm
in growing crops, such as maize and beans:
Place between rows of an infested crop,
at short intervals apart, bundles of any suc-
culent weed or vegetable which have been
previously poisoned by dipping jn a strong
mixture of Paris green, loz. to a bucket of
water. The cutworms eat the poisoned baits,
bury themselves and die. In hot weather
the bundles should be put out after sundown.
Or try bran baits made up in the following
proportions: Bran 101 b.. molasses 41b.,
arsenate of calcium lib. The bran and the
arsenate of calcium are mixed dry ; then the
molasses, diluted with water, is added, until
the whole mass becomes very slightly sodden.
This is broadcast or placed in small pieces
(about the size of a walnut) in the infested
areas. In hot weather, this also should be
placed out after sundown.
The trench system is also worthy of a
trial. A trench or furrow is ploughed or
dug round the crop towards which the cut-
worms are feeding. It must have clear-cut
sides; those nearest to the crop should be
undercut so as to prevent the cutworms from
crawling out of the trench. Deep holes
should be made in the trench at intervals of,
say, five yards. When travelling towards the
crop the cutworms fall into and crawl along
the trench and ultimately into the holes.
The holes can then be rammed and the
grubs destroyed.
PAPER BAGS FOR FERTIBISERS.
“Vavasour” : An innovation which is being
warmly welcomed by the man on the land is
fhe substitution of paper bags for jute con-
tainers in the wrapping of fertilisers. “R.
K. Deea” suggested it on the M. 0.8. page
18 months ago, and he must be weir satis-
fied with the results.
When the new bagging was placed on the
market by Bates (Australasia), of Sydney,
its many advantages soon appealed to the
consumer. Not only was the light bag of
941 b. more convenient than the old jute
sack weighing 1871 b.. but it was impervious
to rain or damp, had no interstices through
which the manure might be lost, and made
the job of sowing much easier, with an addi-
tional acreage covered in comparison with
the old-fashioned packages. This means a
reduction in working costs, while the price
of the paper bags is only about 3s. per dozen
against approximately <Ss. per dozen for the
jute article. Another advantage is that,
whereas only 12 jute bags go to the ton. 24
paper bags go to the same weight. And
there is no labor lost as with jute in
making the bags fit for re-use and closing
them when filled, while the saving by using
the paper is greater than any benefit accru-
ing fropa re-using the jute.
Finally, the paper bags are made in Aus-
tralia of Australian materials.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What variety of tomato is most suit-
able to be grown at Gympie ( Q .) in winter?
(2) Any way of keeping them off the ground,
when on the bushes to prevent rot or wilt?
—4113.
(1) Matchless. (2) By staking and
pruning. Q’land Agriculture Department
will supply information on application.
My potato plants, grown from eyes, have
produced no tubers. But from the spots
where potatoes might have been developed on
the roots there are plenty of new sprouts.
Would these be likely to develop into fruit-
ful plants? —3996.
It is advisable to plant either whole or cut
seed of a good strain. It is not likely that
the sprouts would develop into fruitful
plants.
(1) Is the growing of grapes profitable?
(2) Which is the best way to grow grapes,
on wire netting or as in vineyards? (3)
How many vines can be grown to the acre?
(4) What quantity of grapes should each
plant or vine give a year? (5) Average
price per pound? (6) Best variety to grow?
(7) How long does a vine take to bear ivhen
planted as a seedling? —3Bl6.
(1) Yes; table grapes are more profitable
than wine grapes at present. (2) On small
areas it is advisable to plant on bush sys-
tem. Trellising is more adapted to large
areas. (3) 1209 to 1400 on the bush system.
(4) Under average conditions about 51b.
per vine. (5) On Sydney markets about
4s. to 6s. per case of 241 b. of varieties such
as Muscat Hamburg, Black Hamburg
and Oordos. Choice lots bring more. (6)
Muscat Hamburg is the best variety for
the Sydney market. (7) A vine will give
a small crop in three years, and comes into
full bearing in four or five years.
Recipe for a leather softener which will
not stain the clothes when used on a saddle?
—4134.
Nothing better than soft soap of good
quality. Rub in sparingly with a woollen
rag once a week, and polish with a clean
woollen cloth till perfectly dry to the touch.
Keep the tin of soap covered and away from
dust. Neatsfoot oil is also satisfactory, but
a little harder to rub dry.
Recipe for tanning kangaroo-skins? No
wattle-bark available. —4076.
The skins should be treated as quickly as
possible after skinning, as any delay tends
to harden them and to permit bacterial
action, with consequent loss of fur. Scrape
the skins well, trim up very ragged edges
and wash thoroughly in cold water. Hang
up to drain, and when all water has dripped
out, but while the skins are still fresh and
damp, lay them out, skin side up, on a
table and tan with this process: Dissolve
12oz. alum and Boz. salt in about half-gallon
boiling water. Mix 11b. flour to a paste in
a little water, cool the alum and salt mix-
ture, add the flour paste, and make up to
1 gallon with water. Give the skins a
liberal coating of this on the flesh side, fold
over in halves, roll up and leave till next
day. Repeat daily for four days, then dry
out. Try one or two skins first, and if
very dry when finished add 1-pint neatsfoot
oil to the tanning solution for further skins.
The flour makes a softer and whiter leather.
The solution will not keep well in hot
weather.
I have a S-h,p. Hornsby engine. Could I
run it on kerosene instead of petrol? What
alterations would I hare to make?— 4135.
If your engine is a fairly recent model
it will run off kerosene if started on petrol.
The earlier -models are not designed to be
run off kerosene. Write to the agents,
Dangar, Gedye and Co., 10 Young-street,
Sydney, who will be able to advise you in
detail.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Tena” : When feeding green corn to cows
in the paddock do not tip in heaps; throw it
out as the vehicle moves forward. Many a
good cow has been horned because feed was
put in heaps. A slide is handy for distri-
bution ; try one with a large tree fork
floored with case timber.
“A.C.8.”: The only satisfactory method
of dealing with a choked paspalum paddock
is to plough out sections, thus allowing room
for new growth. This grass needs heavy
stocking, and should be kept eaten down for
best results. Paspalum going to seed pro-
vides little or no feed for dairy cows.
“Marsh”: Once nut grass becomes estab-
lished it must be rooted out. Half-doing the
job i.s useless; the deep-down nuts must be
dug clean out and taken off the fields. In
Queensland cane areas wild pigs in their
rooting to get to the nuts make the crop
look as if a cyclone had hit it.
“Doekay”: After ploughing-in the rabbit
burrows make a point of patrolling them at
fairly frequent intervals with a light shovel
and a bundle of old newspapers. A sheet of
newspaper crumpled up and placed in the
month of a newdy-opened hole and covered
with a shovelful of soil will prevent Bunny
from opening the burrow. For some unknown
reason he will not scratch once he touches
the paper.
“J.W.W.”: Horses brought in from work
are often put to the feed thirsty, drivers
arguing that cold water on an empty stomach
is injurious. It is if the horse is too hot
when it is taken. On the other hand, water
after feed will give an animal indigestion.
Bet the horse stand and rest 10 minutes (in
a shady place if possible) and then give
half a drink. If this wastes time it saves
horses. Should thirst be very great let
Punch take a second drink after another
five minutes.
“Floodmark” : Try skinning a ration sheep
in a cradle made from two pieces of 4 x 4
timber, 2ft. bin. long. Bay them parallel 9in.
apart, and across them, a half-inch from
either end, bolt two 4 x 4’s, Ift. Gin. long;
it prevents the sheep from getting dirty.
“Kariah”: Never let a saw lie in the sun ;
it plays havoc with the temper of the steel.
“Beady” : In dealing with scattered Bath-
urst burrs, try riding round and swatting
them from horseback. A pony is reallv most
convenient, and a setter head, attached to
a light but strong handle, is a serviceable
tool. / "' ’>'
“Concrete” : Bocal Chinese gardeners pull
mature cabbages not wanted for market
gently, using both hands, till there is a crack
in the root system. One of them explained
that the heart won’t break into flower then,
all the energy going to repair the I'oot
system. The dodge can be done two or
three times, and I have proved that it acts —
rather helpful with a big crop and a dull
market.
“Wandi” : The best way of dealing with
grass-root grubs, which are spoiling pas-
tures in many N.S.W. districts, is to turn
a few pigs into the paddock. The pigs root
up the grubs and eat them. Where there are
large isolated patches, it pays to enclose the
pigs on them with strong netting. After-
wards the ground can be levelled and re-
sown with grass. If there are only small
spots, the beginning of the trouble, dig a
hole in the centre of each and fill with boil-
ing water.
“Gumblegubbin”: It is a mistake to give
cold milk to poddies, especially in cold
weather. It be warmed to the tem-
perature that" a calf gets it from the cow..
“Karaway”: A naked corncob makes a
first-rate handle for a file or rasp. All that
is necessary is to stick the sharp end into
the soft centre. Two cobs held together
make a good currycomb for rubbing the
dried sweat or. mud off Dobbin’s ribs.
“Dimon”: The mechanism of padlocks
should be well oiled before being hung in
the open. Goanna oil is good for this pur-
pose. Tradesmen generally powdered
graphite, which is blown in. This not only
lubricates the mechanism but prevents it
from rusting.
“Jumbuck”: Several fleece lines inspected
lately in Queensland showed irregularity in
length of staple, and buyers have been com-
plaining. In some cases wool that suited
them as regards quality was passed by owing
to this irregularity, competition being thus
lost to growers. Shearing sheep with various
months of wool growth without drafting
them beforehand is to blame, as well as
.careless classing. It’s better to keep down
than try to force up a line; this applies
especially to wool of mixed staple lengths.
Knowledge of spinning quality and yield re-
quires years of experience, but the veriest
tyro should be able to distinguish short from
long wools.
“Mulgo”: The demand for farm horses
was shown at a sale at Dunedoo which drew
buyers from many parts of N.S.W. and even
from Melbourne. A mob of draughts from
Gulgong sold up to £34. and averaged £2S
a head. Other horses of a useful sort also
brought good prices; but this sale and
others indicate that the most profitable horse
to breed at the present time is the* active
draught suitable for general farm work.


One Punch Patsy
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
i oung woman, Q’land, seeks position on station
anywhere as housemaid or laundress. —4248.
Refined woman (33), N.S.W., has had charge of
father’s country home since leaving school, seeks
position as housekeeper. Protestant. —4129.
Jackeroo (20), two years’ Q’land exp. sheep and
cattle, can keep books, wants job. Refs.—4229.
Young lady, Sydney, requires position as governess.
Usual subjects to Intermediate; English to matricu-
lation standard ; commercial and art subject's.—42lo.
Journalist-reader-compositor (elderly), Sydney,
seeks position or part-time work in suburban or
country newspaper office. —4166.
To buy “Public AVater Supplies,’’ by Turneaure
and Russell.—4l26.
To buy Norman Lindsay numbers of “Art in Aus-
tralia.” —-4139.
To buy second-hand volumes of “Waverley Children’s
Dictionary.”—42l4.
To buy Christopher Brennan’s “Poems” (1913),
Zora Cross’s “Daughters of the Seven Mile,”
Bartlett Adamson’s books of stories and verse and
E. J. Brady’s “The King’s Caravan.” —4222.
To buy Tasmanian edition of “Pickwick Papers”
(1837), “Rules and Orders of the Governor’s Court,
N.S.W.” (1815), and early Australian newspapers.
—4237.
Words of “The Battle of the Wozzer,” by C. J.
Dennis.—4l2B.
Words of verse “Australia on the Wallaby.”—42l9.
Whereabouts of David Harold Henderson, native
of Edinburgh, last heard of in Wellington, M.L.
—4158.
Information Sought.
(1) Is there a school in N.S.W,. which
gives a full course in aviation? (2) Go.st
of course? (3) Are there any opportuni-
ties for a young man in this profession at
present f—4093.
(1) The Aero Club teaches flying at
Mascot. (2) For pupil membership the
annual subscription is £3 3s. Flying fees,
paid as instruction is received, ate: Dual
instruction, £3 10s. per hour; solo flying,
£1 16s. per hour. There is no set cost of
a course, but the average cost to secure an
“A” license is £45 to £5O. (3) At present
there is not much possibility of getting a
job as a pilot, but there should be plenty
of scope for young pilots in Australia when
conditions brighten.
(1) Is there a permanent flow of water in
the Torrens River ( S.A .) from its source to
the sea? (2) Is there an embankment or
trail constructed across its channel below
Adelaide? (3) Is the water augmented from
an artificial source? (4) How far is the
river navigable by large steamers?. —3963.
(1) Yes. (2) A weir has been constructed,
creating an artificial lake at Adelaide, and
the City Corporation intends to construct
another about three-quarters of a mile north-
west of the present one. There is also a
weir at Gumeracha above the Millbrook
reservoir. (3) No. (4) The river has no
direct outlet to the sea and is not navigable.
How to cure an elderly pet pug of obesity?
—4078.
It is a matter of diet. Raw meat, given
sparingly, is the best food in. most cases.
If this does not work, try Spratt’s pet-dog
biscuits, dry, given whole, if they will be
taken that way; otherwise, broken up. No
other food should be given and only fresh
cold water to drink. Plenty of exercise is
beneficial.
What is the objection to using a metal
trowel ichen finishing off a concrete path? —
4119.
A metal tool gives the concrete a glossy
finish which is dangerous to the pedestrian.
It is also liable to cause hair cracks on
the surface.
(1) In raising flower seeds what is the
best kind of seed-pan to use? (2) What is
the object of baking the soil in a seed-pan
before putting seeds in and how is it done?
—4112.
(1) Earthenware pans. Wooden boxes,
however, give very good service. They should
be 4in. to 6in. deep, with holes drilled in
the bottom and sides, quarter-filled with
rough crocks, charcoal or other draining
material, and there should be only about
3in. of soil over the top. (2) It is done to
kill insects and other pests. The soil
should be well watered and then baked for
an hour in a hot oven, or roasted over a
sheet of iron.
(1) Where and when was Edgar Allan
Poe born? (2) What is his position in
American letters? (3) Personal characteris-
tics 3966.
(1) Boston, January 19, 1809. (2) His
European reputation is greater than that of
any other American writer. (3) “He lived
in poverty and died in misery.” He was
orphaned when a child and was of inherited
neurotic temperament. His wife, whom he
dearly loved, suffered from an incurable
malady, and towards the end he drank to
excess to drown his troubles.
(1) When a naval rating wishes to marry ,
must he obtain the consent of a superior
officer? (2) Would he receive higher pay
after marriage? (3) Could an outsider
obtain a report from the authorities upon
a naval rating's character? —4l22.
(1) Naval ratings may marry without the
approval of the naval authorities. (2)
When a man marries he becomes eligible for
a marriage allowance of Is. Bd. a day, pro-
vided he declares an allotment to his wife
of not less than one-half of his active pay,
fall amount of marriage allowance.
(3) Information as to a naval man’s char-
acter is not given to private applicants by
the authorities.
What is neon, and what are its uses ? —
4174.
It is a chemical clement, and one of the
constituents of the atmosphere, of which it
forms about 1 part in 100,000 by volume.
It was discovered in 1898 by Sir W. Ram-
say and Prof. M. W. Travers. It is used
in gas-filled electric lamps, and for adver-
tisement purposes in electric discharge
tubes. Neon discharge tubes are also used
in aerodrome beacons, owing to the fog-
penetrating powers of the light they pro-
duce. Chemically, neon forms a member of
the group of inactive gases.
I think my dog has palpitation 1 of the
heart. The heart heats with a thumping
action, shaking the whole body, and the dog
is restless and, pants a lot. Treatment?—
4165.
Put the dog on a raw-meat diet for a
time, and avoid violent exertion, though he
may have moderate walking eXercisc; avoid
excitement and fatigue; exercise in the
shade, in cool part of day. Give aperient
medicine and a course of the following mix-
ture : Tincture of digitalis, 90 minims; bro-
mide potassium, 120 grains, water to 6oz.
From one teaspoon to a tablespoon, accord-
ing to the size of the dog, to be given three
times a day, one hour after food.
Who are the Junkers in German politics,
and how did the name originate? Did they
affect Germany’s willingness to enter the
Great, War?— 4l7B.
The name was given to the young nobles
known as junc-herre (freely translated,
“young gentlemen”), who supported Bis-
marck before the Franco-Prussian War.
Politically, the Junkers are militarist, and
their spirit undoubtedly animated those who
plunged (Germany into war in 1914.
What are the value and conditions of the
James Murphy bursaries open to Roman
Catholic students'? —4180. '
The trustees of the James Murphy be-
quest offer bursaries tenable at Sydney Uni-
versity and Ilawkesbury to boys whose means
will not permit of their following agricultural
sciehce courses. The bursaries are deter-
mined on the leaving-certificate examination
results, and carry allowances of £7O p.a. to
TJni. bursary winners who reside at St.
John’s College, and £4O to those who enter
the Hawkesbury College. Full particulars
may be obtained from the Perpetual Trustee
Co., Hunter-street, Sydney.
I have an old china vase, 6iin. high, bear-
ing a design of roses with gold trimmings.
On the bottom of the vase is a double X
scroll with a Vin the centre. What make
is it and approximate value? —4lol.
The mark is that of the Sevres factory.
Genuine pieces of this ware are rare and of
considerable value, but there are thousands
of reproductions bearing the mark.
(1) H.P. of the Capcls XL Otto oil-
engine, type CV? (2) Its r.p.m.f (3)
Agents in Sydney? —4l47.
(1) 51. (2 ) 400. (3) None at present.
Buzacott and Co., 7-11 Market-street, were
agents at one time, and they still have spare
parts in stock.
(1) When a wicket-keeper takes a catch,
which umpire makes the decision, the one
at the batting end or the one at the bowler’s
end? (2) In the event of a disagreement
between the umpires on such a catch, what
is the position? —4oB4.
(1) The umpire at the bowler’s end. (2)
The umpire at square-leg has no jurisdiction
in this matter, and the decision of the
umpire at the end is final.
(1) Names of members of the Queensland
Sugar Convention Committee? (2) Who
appoints them? (3) Who finds the money?
—4003.
(1) A. R. Townsend (chairman). W. J.
Short, P. A. Feil, W. Young, A. W. Palfrey-
man and A. W. Fairley. (2) The interests
they represent. (3) The cane-sugar indus-
try. The amount to be contributed until
August 31, 1936, is £200.000 p.a.
How to treat canaries with chillies and
cayenne pepper to make their plumage cor-
rect?—4l36.
Place a shred of saffron (just sufficient
to give a slight yellow tinge) in the drink-
ing water once every seven or ten days in
the moulting season. Don’t administer
cayenne. There is no objection to a Chilli
or two. Keep the cage clean.
Many years ago the Queensland National
Gallery exhibited a painting, “Path Over
the Hill,’’ which was on loan. What is its
value, who was the artist, and where is it
n0w?— 3972.
The picture is by J. Clayton Adams, is
worth 150 to 200 guineas, and when last
reported on was hanging in the School of
Arts, Maryborough.
What is the Kreutzer Sonata? —1192.
Beethoven’s sonata in A for piano and
violin, op. 47, dedicated to Rudolph Kreut-
zer, a famous violinist.
(1) What causes lumbago? (2) Symp-
toms? (3) Treatment and preventive mea-
sures?—4l93.
(1) Usually exposure to damp or cold.
(2) Severe pain in the muscles of the small
of the back. (3) Hot or Turkish baths and
an aperient are helpful. The pain may be
allayed by hot fomentations. Those subject
to the complaint should wear woollen under-
clothing, get medical advice about diet and
avoid chill and damp.
How is “ anti-haze” composition (used to
prevent steaminess inside a motor-car obscur-
ing the windows) made?— 4l4o.
There are at least 14 recipes. One of
the cheapest and best is to. dissolve 2oz. gly-
ceride ip 1 quart of 62 pic. alcohol, artd add
a very little oil of amber to improve the
odbr. Watch the mixture after combining
it, and stir to an even .solution. When it
clarifies itself, it is rubbed over the inner
surface of the glass. Probably a mixture
°f glycerine and methylated spirit would be
effective.
(1) Where arc the Maidive Islandsf (2)
Population? (3) Industries? (4) To
whom do they belongt —l2os.
(1) In the Indian Ocean. (2 ) 70,000.
(3) Exports are bonito-fish, tortoise-shell,
cocoanuts, coir yarn, copra and cowries. (4)
The islands are in the British ‘‘sphere of
influence,” their sultan sending an annual
tribute to the Government of Ceylon.
(1) Is card-playing On N.B.W. licensed
(hotel) premises illegal and what penalty
do the licensee and players incur? (2)
What powers have the police to stop it?—
4127.
(1) The Liquor Act prohibits gambling-
on licensed pi'ertiises, and a licensee
who permits or connives, at gambling for
stakes is subject to a penalty of £lO for
the first offence and £2O for subsequent
offences. If the circumstances are such as
to bring the premises within the meaning
of a “common gaming house,” then every
person found on such premises, without law-
ful excuse, is liable to a penalty of £5. (2)
They can prosecute.
(1) What countries have adopted the air
of “God Have the King?' and to what word's
in each country has it been set? (2) Have
Russia and Spain changed their national
anthems since the revolutions in both coun-
tries? —4170.
(1) The air lias been adopted by Switzer-
land to the words “Rnfst du, mein Vater-
land”; by Germany in “Heil dir im Sieger-
kranz”; by Denmark in ‘Heil dir dem Lie-
benden,” and in the U.S.A. the air is sung
to “My Country, ’Tis Of Thee.” (2) In
Russia, the old anthem, “Bozhe, Zaria
chrany,” has yielded to the “Internationale.”
In Spain there lias been no new anthem
since the revolution, and the old one,
“Marcha Real,” seems to be still in use.
Which is considered the more popular in-
strument, the pianoforte or the violinf—
-4181.
The pianoforte is the most popular of
all musical instruments. Its students are
the most numerous, its literature is the most
extensive, and the number of pianofortes in
daily use is probably at least double that of
any other instrument. The violin comes
next in order.
A character in a recent novel, in depre-
cating the sense of humor of another, alludes
to hint as being as "dull as a writer of Maca-
ronic verse.” (1) What is Macaronic verse?
(2) Can you quote an example? (3) Who
first wrote them, and when?-— 4172.
(1) A species of burlesque, the humor of
which depends partly on tagging Latin suf-
fixes on to all the words so as to suggest
the dignity of Latin poems, and thus turn
the rhyme into a mock-heroic. (2) Here
are two lines to indicate the effect pro-
duced :
Maggaeam, magis doctam militate eowaeas
Et doctam sivefepare flooras, et steniere bqddas.
(3) The “Liber Macaronices” of Teofilo
Eolengo, .who first popularised this device,
appeared in 1517. The author explained that
his doggerel, like the native macaroni, is a
rude hotch-potch.
(1) Is an ode a song, and how does it
differ from other verse forms? (2) What
are some of the best odes in the English
language? —4l67.
(1) An ode was originally any piece
adapted to be sung. In the modern use of
the word odes need not necessarily be in a
form to be sung. The language of the ode
is abrupt, concise and energetic. (2)
Keats’s odes “To a Nightingale” and “To
a Grecian Urn” are reckoned among the
finest in the English language. The Old
Testament, particularly the Psalms, con-
tains many examples of the spirit, if not ,the
form, of the ode.
What is an ocarina? —4200.
A small terra-Cotta instrument, in char-
acter somewhat resembling a flageolet, but
egg-shaped, made in various sizes. The fin-
gering is intermediate between the flageolet
and that of the “picco” pipe. It has a
hollow, rather sweet tone, similar to that of
a stopped organ pipe. It is of no musical
importance.
How to polish tortoise-shell? —4lo2.
Practically impossible for an amateur to
bring shell to a high polish, as power-driven
polishers are required. You can improve its
appearance by cleaning it thoroughly and
rubbing with fine emery powder moistened
with raw linseed oil. Apply with a woollen
rag, and rub up with a silk cloth.
How can / remove badly chipped enamel
paint from a galvanised-iron bath, and apply
a respectable finish ?. —4008.
Buy a tin of paint remover, follow direc-
tions, then scrape off the paint with an old
chisel or scraper. Rub all surfaces smooth
with emery-paper, and wash thoroughly
When quite dry, give two coats of flat white
paint, the first coat to be perfectly dry be-
fore the second is applied. Let dry thor-
oughly, then give two coats of white enamel
batli paint, laid on with a 2in. brush, drying
well between the coats. Then fill the bath
with cold water, and allow it to stand for
two days.
Recipes for (1) rubber-stamp pad ink?
(2) Marking ink? —4079.
(1) Assemble 3 parts nigrosin, 15 parts
water, 15 parts alcohol and 70 parts gly-
cerine. Dissolve the nigrosin in the alcohol,
add the glycerine dissolved in the water, and
rub all well together. This gives a black
ink. Aniline colors arc employed for tint-
ing, and any such color may be substituted
for the nigrosin. (2) Dissolve 4 parts of
gum lac in 36 parts boiling water, which
already contains 2 parts borax; filter and
set aside; dissolve 2 parts gum arabic in
4 parts water, and add the solution to the
filtered mixture; finally, after the mixture
is quite cold, add (for a blue ink) 2 parts
of powdered indigo and dissolve by agita-
tion. Let stand for several hours, then
decant, and put up in small bottles.
Does Anybody Know?
What year was tlie original asphalt foot-
path laid down in Raglan-street, Mosman,
Sydney ? Local council unable to state.—
4243.
Brief Answers.
P.C.: It is a Biblical place-name meaning
a “watch-tower”... .R.R.: It is merely a newspaper
stunt.. . . A. 8.: Communicate with Melbourne Observa-
tory, which will furnish instructions... .C.H.R.:
Consult a surveyor... .H.G.: Call on Penfold Wines,
Ltd., Q.V. Buildings, Sydney... .C.C.: Offer them to
Angus and Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street, or
Dymocks, 428 George-street—.both Sydney... .E.P.8.:
(1) £l3OO p.a. (2) Nil. (3) Ni 1.... J.D.: Write
Gibbs, Bright and Co., 17 Bridge-street, Sydney.
....A.A.: The deepest artesian bore in Q’land (and
Aus.) is 7009 ft. About 45 miles west of
Blackall, it. is known as Springleigh. .. .
A.T.S.: There are no dingoes in Tasmania....
W.W.: Ask your local doctor for a letter to a special-
ist. .. .A.J.W.: You are liable to deduct Unemploy-
ment Relief Tax of 1/- per week, as from
Ist October, 1932, on the wages (plus value
of board and lodgings) paid to .your 50n....
F.P.G.: Write Gordon and Gotch, Barrack-
street, Sydney. .. .N.L.C.: The only one of that
name we can trace is Sydney Lee, R.A., R.E., 26
Holland Park-road, London, whose work should have
considerable value. A woodcut by him, “The Lime-
stone Rock,” was purchased by the N.S.W. Gallery
in 1920... .N. 8.: Write Inspector-General for Mental
Hospitals, Sydney. .. .J.D. W.: We do not know of
any..,. F.D.N.: H.M.A.S. Adelaide, 5550 tons dis-
placement, now in reserve, was laid down at Cockatoo
Island Dockyard, Sydney, in 1915' and was com-
pleted in July, 1922. Dimensions are: Length 0.a.,
462 ft. 9ins. ; beam, 49ft. 9ins. ; maximum draught,
19ft. Bins. Max. speed is 25 knots M.K.M.:
Apply to the hospital at which you desire to train
for information concerning vacancies, salary payable,
etc, A list of training schools may be obtained at
the Government Printing Office, Phillip-sfreet, Sydney.
~ . .E.J.R.M.; Write Frank P. Clune, Hon. Sec.,
N.S.W. Bookplate Club, 61 Macleay-street, Sydney.
. ...M.M.: Cardamom is not grown in Queensland,
and no information is available. There is only a
limited market for it in Australia.... K.P.: Turner
and Henderson, 16 Hunter-street, Sydney... .G.R.V.:
Pritchard Bros., High-street, North Sydney....
P.J.P.: Know of no such book. Send movement
and pendulum weights to a Sydney clock
repairer... .R.G.: Write Live Stock Division,
Agriculture Dept., Melbourne, for plan arid
specifications... .G. 8.: We know nothing of the book
you mention.... G. 11. R.: His address is unknown to
the ,writer of the paragraph... .H.M.A.: London has
an average annual rainfall of 23.80in5.,.. .R.J.W.:
“List of N.S.W. Aboriginal Place Names and Their
Meanings,” by W. W. Thorpe (od.), obtainable from
Australian Museum, Sydney... .J.W.: Try Sydney
Book Club, 89 Castlereagh-street, and Dymock’s
Lending Library, 428 George-street-—both Sydney.
. ...J.D.W.: AVrite A. G. Alanson, Secretary,
Federated Public School Teachers’ Association, 56
YOulig-street, Sydney... .J.F.: Porters operating on
Sydney inter-State wharves are licensed by Sydney
Municipal Council, from which information regarding
charges can be obtained. .. .F.L.M.: Symptoms sug-
gest mange. Consult a vet, as anything of a con-
tagious nature calls for skilled personal treatment.
. ...C.P.S. i Rudolf Asmis, 4 Bridge-street, Sydney,
is the German Consul-General.... C.A.G.: Victorian
railways showed a loss of £993,510 for 1931-32.
Estimated loss for 1933 is £682,773. .. .H.E.D.:
There was an increase of £20,670 in the value of
confectionary imported into Australia during the
year ended June, 1932, over the previous 12 months.
.. . . J.AV.M.D.: You have no power to take the action
suggested... .F.M.: Elioth Gruner’s “On the Mur-
rumbidgee” is the property of the N.S.W. Gallery.
It was awarded the Wynne Prize, 1929. .. .A.M.S.:
So far as the circumstances are disclosed, C does
not appear to have any right to cut off the supply
of water.... J. 8.: (1), (2), (3): So far as houses
let on a weekly tenancy are concerned the pro-
visions of the Rent Reduction Act preserved in the
new Moratorium Act do not appear to apply and the
landlord may, subject to the point being tested in
the courts, ask an increased rental. (4) Apply to
the Fair Rents Court, 102 George-street North,
Sydney. (5) The liquidator may call up the out-
standing payments on such terms as he thinks fit.
.... A.W.U.: The bondsmen, as such, have no control
over expenditure, that being in the hands of the
committee or board of control elected by the sub-
scribers. .. .A.M.B. : If you appeal you will have the
right to appear personally before the Court and
state your case in evidence. Should the appeal be
unsuccessful, you would have to pay costs.... T.A.S.:
Shinplaster was originally the name given to the notes
of small denominations, three to 50 cents, issued
by private individuals during the financial panic
in the U.S.A., 1837-1838... .E.T.: Murrumburrah
means “two canoes”; Loomeah, “here I rest”;
Quipolly, “waterholes containing fish”; Nerrigundah,
“a camp where edible berries grow.” All are N.S.W.
abo. place names... .R.J.S.: “Mac” is a Gaelic
prefix signifying “son of,” like the Norman “Fitz”
in Fitzmaurice, and the Irish “O” in O’Grady....
T. J.D.: Charles Paul de Kock (1794-1871) was a
French novelist, more popular abroad than in France
itself. His novels deal mostly with Parisian middle-
class and low life in a witty and audacious manner.
Among the chief are “Georgette,” “Gustave,” “Mon
Voisin Raymond,” “Andre le Savoyard” and “Le
Barbier de Paris”... .L.H.C.: “A Plain and Com-
plete Explanation of the Moratorium Act, 1932,” by
J. H. McLaughlin (55.), obtainable from Moratorium
Publishing Co., 58 Elizabeth-street, Sydney, and “The
Moratorium Handbook,” by R. E. Tebbutt (6s. 6d.),
from the Law Book Co., 140 Phillip-street, Sydney.
. ...T.J.F.: Rotuma is the principal island of a
small group which lies about 220 miles north-west
of Fiji. It is miles long and about 3A miles
wide; population is about 2200, including about 30
whites. Chief industries are copra production and
matmaking. .. .N.C.: (1) W. M. Hughes was born
in AVales, Sept. 25, 1864. He arrived in Australia
when he was 20 and was elected to the N.S.W.
Parliament at 39. (2) AV. A. Holman was 27
when he was first elected F.R.: “Indoor and
Community Games,” by S. G. Hedges (3s. 6d.)....
A.D.J.: “Non-stop” variety, now so popular in Eng-
land, is so called because one may enter at any
time between 2 p.m. and 9.30 p.m. and see the
whole show round for two hours and a half. The
programme is repeated four times between its opening
and midnight R.N.C.: Jardine, Ames, Duck-
worth, Hammond, Larwood, Leyland, Sutcliffe and
Tate have all visited Australia before E.M.S.: The
Quantity Surveying Diploma, issued by the Sydney
Technical College, is accepted by the Quantity
Surveyors’ Association as a qualification for admis-
sion to that body. .. .H.E.G.: Particulars from the
Registrar, Nurses’ Board, 352 Gollins-street, or the
Secretary, R.V.T.N.A., Equitable Building, Collins-
street —-both Melbourne... .L.W.H.: Only remedy is
to chain the dog up for a time, exercising him daily.
. ...H.T.: If you will cite an example, we will
submit it to the Dept, of Labor and Industry for
an opinion... .AV.M.B.: AVrite Berlitz School of
Languages, 335 George-street, Sydney.., .T.E.L.: The
following have been the administrators of Samoa
since the territory was taken over by M.L. from
Germany in 1914; Col, Robert Logan (1914-19), Col.
R. W. Tate (1920-23), Maj.-Gen. G. S. Richardson
(1923-28), Col. S. S. Allen (1928-31), apd Brig.-Gen.
H. E. Hart (appointed 1931)... (Many others mailed.)


MEN AMONG
PEARLS
By
H. Drake-Brockman.
Synopsis : Christopher Kent, a young
English aristocrat, who has been
turned down by his cousin Lettice on
account of his poverty, conies to the
Broome pearling grounds, hoping to
make quick money and return to her.
June Goer, daughter of another
pearler, arrives from Melbourne, where
she has been living, and is greatly in-
terested in Chris; but it is young
Peter Fordyce, a wealthy pearler, and
not Chris , who is interested in June.
June makes a friend of Queenie, a
girl of her own age, about whom
there is some mystery. A letter
from Lettice Chris, but
he fails to notice her references
to a new male friend. Chris, whose
affairs have not been going very
well, loses his diver through paralysis
—a heavy blow. Peter Fordyce pro-
poses to June, but .she staves him off;
and Peter turns enthusiastically to a
new scheme for pooling pearl-shell—
a scheme which will, incidentally,
damage ‘‘Monty,” an old friend of
June’s family. Goer alone amongst
the master-pearlers stands out of the
scheme, and June is upset by the ill-
feeling that follows. “Monty” tries
to cheer her up. At an “afternoon”
to which June is invited, she is warned
against making a friend of Queenie.
June is furious, but, walking home,
she sees Kent's lugger coming in and
forgets her troubles. Chris, upset by
hearing that he and his partner are
heavily in debt to Fordyce, considers
putting the rest of his money into a
cattle-run owned by two men named
liyce and Munro.
THE meal was eaten beneath whining
punkahs, and served by a Japanese
waiter and a white housemaid; a fre-
quent enough combination which appeared
to worry no one but Chris. He always felt
like getting up and taking the dishes from
the girl. But this day he failed even to
notice. Men drifted in, chaffed the wait-
ress, and nodded greetings to each other.
One greyhead who walked with a stick
stopped for a moment to speak to Munro.
“Brother of a famous lady novelist, that
chap,” he said as the old man passed on.
“Oh?” said Chris, uninterested. He was
concerned then only with cattle.
“She came to light with one about pearl-
ing a bit ago.”
Ryce laughed. “I don’t go much on books
meself,” he said. “But Steve here gave me
the thing a.nd tells me it’s about me own
country and I oughta read it. And then I
sees she wrote a damned fine story I read
once, so off I go an’ wade through. Steve
reckons her brother gave her the truth about
pearling. Well, anyhow, someone had a
damned good imagination. And it’s clear
she ain’t never been within coo-ee of the
nor’-west. Wot about an apricot, Mr. Kent?
If yer likes, yer can walk out an’ pick one
off the trees in the back yard! And I sup-
pose yer don’t happen ter carry yer pearls
in a matchbox? Of course not; yer keeps
them in a nice little glass case filled with
water fresh from the sea, and emptied twice
daily. And yer need ter be mighty careful
not to fall fer a binghi tart—they are more
beautiful than wot’s her name—Cleopatra.
And clever!.... My God!”
Munro was shaking with laughter. “He
gets quite wound up over it, doesn’t he?
Let the novelist alone, Bill; it doesn’t do
any harm, and it amuses them.”
“I reckon it does. I like the truth.”
Ryce ignored Steve’s lifted eyebrows. “In
books. If they want to write a lot of
bunkum, let ’em go to the moon, but not
start on places they’ve never seen. Ain’t
that right, Mr. Kent?”
“I’ve never really thought about it,”
replied Chris. “What does the brother do?”
“Oh, he’s out shell-opening,” said Ryce.
“I’d go home and get me maulers on to
some of the brass if it was me.”
“That’s all you can think about at pre-
sent,” laughed Steve, significantly. “I’m
afraid, Kent, we’ve been worried so long
over the rotten place that we’ve got money
on the brain.”
Ryce bought liqueurs after lunch, a.nd
swallowed his at a gulp, making a wry face
at Munro. And then he produced the Pin-
dan Plains ledgers, and the three of them
settled down to business. The books were
in good order. Chris liked the look of
them ; there seemed to be a sound balance,
in spite of the partners’ moan about poor
stock. Munro suggested that Chris take
them to old Grayson, the lawyer, and let
him go into things a bit; but Chris said
that was unnecessary—they had been
audited recently and found correct; that was
good enough for him.
When at last Chris returned to the Bucca-
neer Arms, he met old Major Challenge
hobbling along close to the hotel, and
stopped for a word or two. At least, though
they had not known the same people, each
in his time had frequented the same places
in a far-off hazy London, a city of dreams
hard to visualise as they meandered along
the dusty footpath, past low buildings and
trees growing in the wide empty street, all
spread beneath a pink-flushed evening sky.
The still air brought to their ears all manner
of little sounds, each sharp and clear as a
staccato note struck upon a piano.
“I’ve just received a new T batch of papers,
Kent,” said the old man. “When are you
going outside again? I’ll hurry through ’em
and fetch ’em round.”
“Thanks. I’ll be in for some time yet,
Major. Got to dig up another diver. I’d
like them immensely—but don’t you worry.
I’ll call for them one day next week.”
It would be good, Chris thought, to get
some English news. People were forgetting
him away out in Australia. Naturally
enough, of course; yet he had hoped to find
another letter from Lettice when he came
in—if she had written once, surely she would
write again! Perhaps one would come on
the next mail.
After dinner he joined Mr. Montgomery
on his little verandah. It was pleasant to
sit yarning with feet on the rail, listening
to the old chap’s comments.
“I heard,” said Monty thoughtfully, “that
in the Personal Column of next week’s
‘Echo’ mention will be made of a certain
well-connected gentleman who has lately
been overheard casting aspersions on various
pearlers and the industry in general.”
Kent’s feet banged from the rail.
“What?” he cried. “I never have.”
Monty chuckled and rubbed his hand over
his head, so that the signet ring on his little
finger winked at Chris. Kent always bit—
he could be depended upon not to recog-
nise a joke when it was right under his
nose.
“Well, don’t go rushing down to the office
and putting your foot into it! If you
haven’t said so —and, mind you, you
wouldn’t be the first by a long chalk—l’ll
lay the odds you’ve been thinking a lot just
lately.”
“Yes,” Chris hesitated for an instant;
and then Monty let his pipe go cold whilst
he listened attentively to a detailed account
of the manner in which Kent had spent his
day.
“How long did you say Munro said they’d
been out on the station?” he asked at length.
“Two years, I think.”
In the dusk Monty wrinkled his forehead.
No use in now saying that he knew r it
could not have been much above six months.
Ryce he knew nothing about; but Munro!
“If it is only money you are after I could
have put you on to a good spec,” he said,
almost regretfully. “My gambling days are
over, but I was nearly tempted by a wire
I got the other day from Melbourne —an
old friend on ’Change sent it over. Sounded
first rate.”
“Too late now, thanks all the same,
Monty. I signed the agreement this after-
noon. It’s money I want—but not too much
of a gamble! Pearling’s enough of that.
This looks to me like a very sound proposi-
tion. Munro says I should get 20 per cent,
on my money, and in a year or two be able
to sell out my third share, if I wish, for
more than double its present estimated
value: he says the value of pastoral pro-
perty will rise enormously in the next few
years. Nice sort of chap, Munro. Have
you met him at all? He doesn’t seem to
know many people in Broome.” /
“But we all know him.” thought Monty
grimly. “I have seen him.” he replied.
“Well, it might be all right, but then again
it might not.” No use in tellins Chris
now what he knew of Steve Munro’s
chequered past. The affair was settled. It
wouldn’t help matters to make Chris worry.
But he could not refrain from saying
quietly: “All the same, I rather wish you
had mentioned it to me first.”
CHAPTER XV.
June and Lettice.
Horton came in during the week, to
tucker-up and let his crews join in the
Festival of the Lanterns. He always lived
at his foreshore camp, and took his meals
wherever came handiest. Chris, who had
been busy arranging with his banker for an
overdraft on shell to enable him to pay the
advance for a new
diver, was glad to
see him: something
stimulating in Hor-
ton’s excitable pre-
sence. He greeted
Chris with a wink,
and said: “Settled
account with Ah
Mat, me boy.”
Chris, who had
forgotten Horton’s
anger against the
Malay boy who
had tried to kill
him, wondered for
a moment what he
was talking about. Then he remembered.
He glanced curiously at the dark face, so
swarthy against the bright glint of the gold
rings in the ears. A prickle of apprehen-
sion ran down his spine. “What do you
mean?” he demanded. „
“Ask no questions, you’ll be told no lies,
was all the satisfaction Chris was ever to
receive. “But I’ll tell you this for your
education, me boy: I discovered the swine
had got down on a pearl or two. Ran-
sacked the cabin when I was away. More
fool me for leaving them hidden. No won-
der he wanted to do me in. How’s the game
going with you?”
Kent told him about the cattle station.
Horton did not suffer from Mr. Mont-
gomery’s dislike of causing worry when it
was too late to make alterations. “Munro?”
he shouted. “Steve Munro? You’ll need
to mind your step, me boy. That lanky
cow is not much good, you take it from
me. He’s a slick one, all right—if he hadn’t
been he’d have been landed good and hand-
some for selling snides when he was shell-
opening.”
Chris felt indignant. He had heard one
or two yarns about Horton himself, the
sort of story he was becoming well used to
hearing: hardly anyone in the town seemed
to escape. He had come to the conclusion
that jealousy accounted for a great deal —
he would not believe that the whole place
was rotten.
“Oh, I’m sick to death of suspicions, Hor-
ton,” he exclaimed. “You needn’t be so
ready to give a chap a bad name. Do you
think I believed it when I heard fellows
saying you go in for snide buying your-
self?”
Horton laughed. “What did you say,
Chris?”
“Told ’em they lied.” He did not add
he had nearly been forced to defend his
assertion with his fists.
“Good man! Of course I wouldn’t dream
of doing, anything so low-down —oh no!
It takes your Goer to entertain a man on
the front- verandah, and pour him a drink
to keep him quiet, and then sneak off to
buy the same guest’s pearls from a mys-
terious caller a.t the back door! Goer would
call that a good joke. But what would you
do, me boy, if you were being measured
for a suit and the old Chink offered you
an eight hundred jim pearl for three? Tell
him he was a dirty scoundrel?”
• “I wouldn’t buy it.”
“Well, I’m afraid yours truly would.
What’s the harm? Some other coot will
if you don’t, and for all you know it might
be your very own pearl stolen from you
by some unregenerate swine.”
“I wouldn’t buy it!” repeated Chris
obstinately.
“Well, we won’t fight over it. Perhaps
I wouldn’t either. Come and have a drink.
I could do a long one.”
“No, thanks,” replied Chris; “I’ve got to
move on.”
He felt undeniably bitter. He had always
thought Horton a very decent chap. Was
there no honesty in this little town? Was
nothing black or white, but only grey? Per-
haps he would have been wiser not to rush
into the station deal; yet he felt sure Munro
was a decent chap. Anyway, there could
be no question of snide pearls on a cattle-
run; not the same temptations. Strange
how men appeared to lose their moral sense
when it came to dealing in precious stones
or did they there any more than in
other deals? Perhaps it was only that in
Broome you could see more: in a big city
you didn’t know so well all that went on.
Chris was not naturally given to intro-
spection: his dark mood followed on a
momentary loss of the unquestioning faith
in his fellows by which he lived. The
spasm passed like an earth-tremor. Hor-
ton’s remarks reminded him that he ought
really to call on the Goers—they had al-
ways been very hospitable, and he refused
to believe all he heard about the Captain.
The place was a hot-bed of gossip and un-
charitable scandal. Even Peter Fordyce’s
suspicions about Queenie were probably
wrong. He had himself already been con-
siderably chaffed merely for defending Ivy,
of the Buccaneer Arms bar-room.
Yet he did not call. He even, to Mrs.
Tweedie’s annoyance, for she dearly loved
to be able to talk of her friendship with
the Honorable Christopher Kent—he even
forgot to pay his respects'at the Residency.
The evenings passed in talking to Mr.
Montgomery or drinking in the bar and
watching Ivy, whose presence he found
strangely soothing. It was almost as if the
girl possessed, behind those mournful brown
eyes, so bright when she laughed, a know-
ledge of life which was denied to him. He
spent much time with Ryce and Munro,
attending to business, as they put it, but
in reality pouring libations in honor, of the
new.,partnership—a cheque for a thousand
pounds was surely able to stand a few
drinks! Chris even failed to notice that
Peter Fordyce did not drag him to the
Goers, as once he would have been certain
to do.
Yet he felt slightly guilty when at last,
on the night of the Festival, he greeted
June beside Hashimoto’s grave. Ridiculous,
of course —what did it matter what the
child thought of him? But years of train-
ing where the conventions mattered a great
deal made him expend much energy in be-
ing filled with regrets, quite genuine and
very charmingly offered. Small wonder
June felt her pulses flutter. No man could
smile at her like that, and say the things
he said, unless he was interested! Why,
even Peter’s love-making was dull com-
pared with the business confidences which
Chris offered by way of apology for his
neglect!
He assented eagerly to her suggestion
that they go down to the foreshore to see
the spirit-boats set sail; he had not
imagined she meant to go alone with him.
He just wished to fall in with her ideas by
way of politeness—if there whs anything
he could do to please June, he would be
delighted. He never quite knew how they
came to leave the others, but entered into
the little adventure as a childish lark of
June’s. He began talking about Peter until
the shortness of her replies checked him,
and he turned to the more impersonal sub-
ject of the rite they were about to witness.
“I should like someone to light lanterns
for me when I am dead,” said June.
“Perhaps they will.”
“Would you?”
Chris laughed and put a hand under her
soft crooked elbow to help her over the
beach. “I will need them myself long
before then, my dear child.”
June could think of no more to say. The
warmth of his fingers on her bare flesh was
sending a vapor across her mind. If only
people were not so shut inside themselves,
if only you could have some way of know-
ing what others were thinking! A surge of
instinct drew her towards the man at her
side; had she obeyed it she would have lent
against him, pressed close, compelled him
to listen to the call of her racing blood.
And possibly Christopher Kent might then
have forgotten his allegiance to a barren
dream of the future and discovered there
beside him the warm grace of reality. But
the moment passed: had June been older,
had she possessed but a tithe of Queenie’s
primitive wisdom, she might have roused
Kent, made him awa-re of the feelings he
awakened: as it was, the very force of her
emotion resulted in a little virginal back-
drawing. Chris thought she did not care
for his assistance, and withdrew his hand.
And in the dark tears started to June’s eyes.
The moon rose; the lantern-lit boats
were caught by the tide and went floating
away into the night.
When June murmured reluctantly that it
must be time tb go home, Chris acquiesced.
Nothing, the girl thought drearily, was go-
ing to happen. Miserably she wondered if
she had failed —or if all along she had been
mistaken and he did not like her at all.
The dreadful collapse of a situation which
she had dreamed of for weeks, which she
had seen breaking like a glorious sunrise
when alone together they strolled down to
the beach, left her without even a word
to say.
“You’re tired,” said Chris solicitously.
“Shall I see if we can find a taxi? It will
be rather difficult, I’m afraid.” (
They had to walk back to Goer’s
bungalow, a long dreary walk, and at the
end June found herself obliged to face a
barrage of banter, which fell on her jangled
nerves like salt rubbed on a wound. Chris,
who, she thought resentfully, had remained
so matter of fact as long as they were
alone, most perversely appeared to enjoy
the ragging, and for once shared in a joke
which June disliked. Queenie’s roguish eyes
grew frankly curious: June knew she would
be called upon for explanations next time
they were alone together.
She thought their guests would never go
home that evening. But at last it was over,
at last she lay alone in the dark, wide-eyed,
listening to the mosquitoes buzzing, frus-
trated, outside her net. Just so, up and
down and roundabout, fluttered her own
frustrated thoughts. She still refused to
face her desolation; it was a long time be-
fore strained nerves found relief in the
tears which had been choked back on the
beach.
Kent called in for Major Challenge s Eng-
lish papers the next morning. All the
lugger crews would need a day or two m
which to recover from the Festival of the
Lanterns, but by the end of the week the
creek would be empty, the storekeepers
somnolent, Chinatown deserted, and the
white population lapsed into its winter
round of tennis and bridge and small-taiK
which so often was merely scandal.
Chris had practically finished his arrange-
ments : he would drop down the creek with
the rest. Unconsciously, meantime, he had
thawed to June’s evident pleasure in
company; he felt more reconciled to his
surroundings and less resentful ol old cap-
tain Kent’s reckless expenditure than
before. He sat down to luncheon m the
best of spirits, and Mr. Montgomery, not-
ing the change in him, felt glad.. ,
Already somebody had told Monty o
the episode of the previous night He had
hoped all morning that June would blow m
to see him. But she had not. He v
chewed the matter over for a long tune
having once decided he knew which jay
the wind blew, and he had at length


T^ewjea&ind,
the SCENIC
PLAYGROUND
of the PACIFIC
Here—in this fascinating land—lie deep-sea fishing
grounds,' lakes and rivers teeming with trout, thermal valleys
with their spouting geysers and boiling pools, Maori "pahs,"
mountain chateaux, beautiful sounds, fiords, glaciers and
mountain peaks—all within a few days' travel of each other.
Write for complete information, suggested
tuurs, fares, etc.
A
V
LETTER OF CREDIT TOURS.
Genuine tourist visitors can obtain
travel tickets, accommodation, etc.,
at will in New Zealand, FREE OF
EXCHANGE, by booking with any
N.Z. Government Tourist Bureau in
Australia.
N.Z. Government Tourist Bureau,
Box 365 F, Martin Place, Sydney,
and at 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Please send me illustrated leaflets
and full details of a holiday in New
inland.
ADDRESS K-
BRITAIN—MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by th«
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman”—7A hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED, COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Mr Cant
i'ii * _
It
\m
Mr Can’t nearly had a fit yes-
terday when he heard a clerk
in the office refer to him as
‘dismal Desmond.’ But there’s
no getting away from it, Mr
Can’t is awfully depressed
these days. Of course things
are a bit difficult —but gloom-
ing about the place never
helped anybody. If only Mr
Can’t were to keep clean in-
side, what a far brighter busi-
ness his life would seem 1
Mr Can
O' A
%
You’ve only got to look at Mr
Can to realise how much de-
pends on inner cleanliness.
Why his cheerfulness and
confidence really do one good {
But then —every morning, you
see, Mr Can takes Eno. With
the result that waste matter
never gets time to poison him
and lower his vitality and
jaundice his whole outlook on
life. Mr Can is fit and cheer-
ful —because he’s clean inside,
c 'Plnd you ?
Headaches, stuffiness, depression, sleeplessness, liverish -
ness, poor appetite get rid of them qll by getting rid of
their cause—take Eno every morning . Even while you’re
drinking it you feel and know that Eno is doing you good *
Toning and cleansing and purifying your system . Doing
what it has done for millions of people for sixty years —■
turning Can’t into Can !
Au.l7
Enos Fruit Salt’
_ , rJ& he words Sno ani Salt ” are registered tratle marks.
Sales <ylgents; c&he British SFCarold 3. fflitchie Go. £td., Sydney, cM.S. o ®.
/■
#
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
"THE EXAMINER’* is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricultural,
Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” is in its 91st year of publication,
and is still the family newspaper of Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates “The Examiner” “Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
■ 73-75 Paterson Street,
.Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
66 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
to the conclusion that if she wanted Kent,
she must have him: it was worse than use?
less to argue with a woman in love! In
all his thought-wanderings it never once
occurred to him that Kent might* have
other ideas.
The two men rose from the table and
retired to their respective rooms. The entire
hotel was educated to preserve decent
silence whilst Mr. Montgomery took his
siesta. Once there had been a scene when
an American oil-expert persisted in clicking
out typewritten reports when Monty wished
to sleep—reports to his company of coun-
try he had not been within miles of. After
that the rattle of the typewriter was not
heard again after lunch.
Chris undressed leisurely, pulled on a pair
of shorts, let down the mosquito-net and
stretched out on the bed to luxurious en-
joyment of cigarettes and crisp papers
scarcely more than a month old.
Through the half-open door of his room
he could see a branch of oleander bloom,
laden with pink blossom, dazzling against
a peep of the brilliant jade of Roebuck Bay.
The heavy, sweet scent of it wafted through
the door like a drug; but Chris, immersed
in papers, smelt only the fogs of London
or the fresh heady tang of heather on Scot-
tish moors; saw only the dazzling gowns
of women whose faces he recognised as they
posed for the camera at Ascot.
He turned a page, and behold! Lettice
laughed at him.
A full-page portrait: “A new study of
the lovely Lady Lettice, younger daughter
of the Earl of Wrotham.”
He had forgotten how lovely she was!
The camera told no lies: no need to gild
this lily, no need for any reporter to thrust
tongue into cheek as he penned ecstasies
in her praise—none of them could ever hope
to suggest more than a poor fraction of
her charm!
She must, he fancied, studying the pic-
ture, have grown even more exquisite with
time: the fine clean lines of her features
were clearer, the sweep of them more
gracious than the round indefinite contours
of first youth. Her poise, the set of that
head on its shoulders, the imperious grace
of her!... .Imagine, Chris thought, even for
one moment seeing her in that child down
the street ! There might possibly be some
faint likeness of coloring, of eyes, yes—but
never, never could June l-emotely touch
this absolute perfection!
He dragged his enraptured gaze from the
wide smiling snare of the pictured eyes to
read the banalities of the letterpress below :
“A new portrait of Lady Lettice, long con-
sidered one of the most beautiful and
“gifted,” et cetera, et cetera —Chris skimmed
the usual blandishments, hungry for a few
crumbs of information.
He found more than a meal of bitter
bread. Lady Lettice had “just announced
her engagement to Richard Lord Atten-
borough, whose seat”—et cetera, et cetera—
“and the marriage has been arranged to
take place almost at once. In fact, the
invitations have been sent out for August
29; and, although, of course, nearly every-
one will be out of town, it is rumored
'that the wedding will be one of the most
brilliant social functions of the year. Inset:
Lady Lettice and her fiance, Lord Atten-
borough, snapped together a.t Ascot.”
August 29! The date shrieked from the
page at Chris—he had written it a few hours
earlier at the beginning of a business
letter!
CHAPTER XVI,
Wedding-night.
June found herself regretting the pride
which had led her to coax her father into
engaging an old Japanese tender as cook
in order that she might provide him with
better meals than the monotonous fare of
the hotels, which was good or bad according
to the temper of the chef, whether that
person was a white woman or a Chinaman.
The Captain’s boisterous animation was
telling on the girl’s overwrought sensibili-
ties: she wished often now that they were
back mealing with Uncle Monty, her atten-
tion distracted by his quiet good manners
and the- bustle of a public dining-room.
In such circumstances, she imagined, she
would be able to endure with better grace
the way her father tilted his chair, his rest-
lessness, his enormous appetite and the way
he ate his food, a dozen little mannerisms
she had not even noticed before, but which
had come to irritate her almost beyond
endurance. It was wrong and nasty of her,
she told herself. Daddy was always think-
ing of things to amuse her: only she was
sorry they didn’t always find amusement in
the same things; or in the same people.
More bricks toppled from her wall of
defence when Goer came home at lunch-
time on the day following the Festival of
the Lanterns, and eased some annoyance
or other by passing a number of ungenerous
remarks about Peter Fordyce. June remem-
bered what Peter had said to her a.nd her
own reply. She wondered again now, be-
cause Peter certainly was not the shabby
sort her father implied—why, only a few
months earlier Daddy had been pleased to
describe him as a bright lad! And as for
his attitude towards Chris—that didn’t bear
thinking about; Goer tolerated him, but
thought him an awful fool. June scarcely
tasted her food; she sat watching the Cap-
tain wolf the sweet little rock-oysters she
had bought from a wizened little Manilla-
man who went out after them on the reefs
in the neap tides. she had to suppress a,
shudder at his sensual enjoyment.
After a short rest she dressed unhappily
for an afternoon party. She found the
girlish fripperies of her toilet-table suddenly
ridiculous, and experienced a feeling of
resentment for the fair-haired, blue-eyed
youthfulness of her reflection in the mirror:
it was not right that she should look just
the same when the sparkle had gone from
the world. She moved slowly in a sort of
unbelieving misery.
Her way led past the Buccaneer Arms
Hotel. She could not tell if she felt glad
or sorry, if she hoped to see Chris or not.
But from the breath-taking race of her heart
when she beheld a familiar figure slouch
from one of the hotel annexes, she knew
that all day long she had, dreamed of this
moment. Her lips parted, her blue eyes
lit with an unconscious hope that she had
been foolish to make much of the night
before. She looked very lovely.
And then the blood receded from her
heart, her lips, her cheeks, and left jier
rigid. She felt sure Chris had seen her;
from an involuntary turn of his head, she
was certain. But he hurried on. he stumbled
up the steps of a far verandah and dis-
appeared into the bar.
A surge of pity relaxed June’s taut
muscles as mechanically she walked on: an
agonising sympathy which left not even a
backwash of self-pity. Something was
wrong. The pathetic lost-look of him, the
way his foot fumbled the first step, the
furtive look he had—just like some poor
animal scurrying for cover. Her sharpened
perceptions missed none of it: if ever hp
had needed love he needed it now.
Love! Until that moment June had
looked upon the romantic passion as a mar-
vellous rosy emotion, a. scintillating mix-
ture of diamond and rose and gold, like a
sunrise, like a fresh exhilarating breeze from
the sea. Now she discovered in her heart
a hurt like a physical pain: it filled her with
fear for the beloved, made her soft and
weak and afraid. Was this the experience
she had dreamed of ever since her child-
hood, this the mysterious emotion so lightly
talked of, so laughingly dismissed? It was
terrible. She pushed back her hat as though
it hampered thought. She only knew she
ached to run after Chris, to share his un-
happiness, whatever it might be, to comfort
him, to console. And in that moment she
bitterly hated the conventions which pre-
vented her from following him—he had put
himself as far beyond her reach as if he
were in another country: into that world
behind the big screen with its brewery
advertisement she might not follow, even
though her heart should break.
Kent had lain motionless on his bed for
what seemed hours after he had savagely
thrown away the pictured smiling face of
Lettice. The blow had fallen that always
he had feared and denied. Each passing
year had but served to strengthen hope that
she had not really meant whatever she had
said on that bitter afternoon; that she
remained true to her first love, and was
only waiting for him to come home like
the prodigal returning, but a triumphant
prodigal laden with the spoils of success.
Her letter had been as oil poured on smoul-
dering flames. Fool! It had been sentence
of death, a preparation for this; but in her
intolerable selfishness she had avoided writ-
ing the final word herself—had left it to a
social rag to finish the work she had begun
so long ago in London.
His agony found no assuagement in a
knowledge of his own weakness: he should
never have thought of her again. Yet how
was that possible? A man could not wor-
ship one woman since she was little more
than a child and then toss her from his
mind. But now the idol he had built with
such reverence, which he had mended, when
once it fell, with such tender care, was
smashed beyond all repairing. His hope,
his one incentive, lay slain, his most beauti-
ful illusion most cruelly torn and tattered.
(To be continued next week.)
The Duet.
When Alan strolled out as the sun rose up,
Gold light o’er the Wild ways flinging,
He hearkened a breeze in the tossing trees,
And joined in its early singing.
And this was the song they sang in tune,
The cares of the wide world .scorning:
“Oh, Morn was made for the joy of Youth,
And Youth for the bliss of morning!”
And ever the morn-shine grew more bright,
And ever the wmy grew fairer,
As on and along, with a lifted song,
He journeyed, a gay wayfarer.
The song they carolled, the wind and he,
Was bright as the bright spring weather:
“A young, young heart and the bliss of
morn—-
Well-mated are we together!”
Now, Alan w r as so enraptured with all,
As wine-of-the-air he swallowed,
That ’twas little he dreamed, since so novel
it seemed,
Footworn was the way he followed.
With never a pause they sang, sang on,
Though Life, like a sage, gave warning:
“Oh, Morn was made for the joy of Youth.
And Youth for the bliss of morning!”
What happened to Alan anon, anon,
As on and onward he wandered?
Why this, this only—that late and lonely
He sighed for a good time squandered.
And now ’tis a lonesome song lie sings.
The wind in the tree-tops scorning •
“Gone, gone for aye is the joy of Youth,
And gone is the bliss of ‘morning.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Legal Notices.
QOUTH AUSTRALIA.—IN THE SUPREME COURT.
No. 714 of 1932.
Between NELLIE STUART Plaintiff
And NORMAN NOBES STUART Defendant
To NORMAN NOBES STUART.
Notice is hereby given to Norman Nobes Stuart
whose last known address was care of Mrs. F. James
Dove Street Thebarton South Australia that a writ
has been issued in the Supreme Court of South
Australia in an action in which his wife Nellie
S'tuart claims an order for divorce on the ground
of his desertion and habitual and wilful failure
during the five years preceding the commencement
of such action to pay the maintenance for his wife
which he has been ordered to pay by an order of a
Court of Summary Jurisdiction sitting at Adelaide
on the 7th day of September 1923 and in such action
his wife intends to ask for an order for maintenance
and if Norman Nobes Stuart desires to be heard in
opposition to the claim for any of such orders he
must file an appearance in the office of the Master of
the Supreme Court of South Australia within forty-
six days of the publication of this advertisement
otherwise orders may be made against him in his
flbscncG
' LEMPRIERE, ABBOTT & CORNISH,
Remington House,
29 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors—James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M S G.
-General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE - - - - * BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 95
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through f ht‘ leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank- offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
HOWARD HOTEL, LONDON
NORFOLK STREET, STRAND, W.C.2.
In the hub of London life, close to all Theatres.
You may pay high prices, but you cannot obtain more perfect service, better cuisine,
finer wines, more comfortable and artistic rooms. The private bath rooms and suites
are definitely unequalled. Yet you can have bedroom, bath, and full breakfast for
12/6. Of course, every room has central heat, hot and cold water and telephone.
These are necessities. It is the additional luxuries you find at the Howard which
you will appreciate. Many thousands of pounds have been again spent <»n new
decorative effects, making the Howard
AN HOTEL OF RARE BEAUTY
Send for Illustrated Booklet to “The Bulletin,” Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Win. Fowles, of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only Victoria’s greatest refined hotel values
thus: Single Rooms
from 4/6 day:
Double from 7/6:
and meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in Tearooms
or Cafe, and Room
with breakfast
from 6/6 Single or
11/6 Double all
less 10 p.c. if stay-
ing one week or
more; and complete
Board from 10/6
day or 65/- week
(both net) ; but, .
in addition, if you motor, Wm Fowles
garages your car free of charge in the hotel
garage, next door, during your entire stay.
Such value service and convenience is not
obtainable at any other hotel in Mel-
bourne city. Please write for tariff card,
which gives all information, or state your
requirements and we will gladly quote.
Special rates for dubs, conferences, families,
etc. The Manager, Carlyon’s Hotel, Mel-
bourne. is sufficient address for your letter.
m
SPORING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The result of the C. F. Orr Stakes at Wil-
liamstown makes the autumn racing outlook
highly interesting. Chatham, regarded by
many experts as the fastest horse up to a
mile in Australia, was opposed by Liberal,
Gaine Carrington and Top Hole, who had
filled the places in the Victoria Derby. Also
in the field were Viol d’Amour, High Brae,
Yarramba, Casque d’Or, Ruach, Oratory and
Rulanut. You could write your own ticket
about several of these neddies, who either
were unsuited by the distance or not for-
ward enough in condition; but Chatham,
Liberal, Gaine Carrington and Top Hole
came in for heavy support. On public form
Chatham ought to have been favorite. In
the Newmarket Handicap he is asked to con-
cede Gaine Carrington 221 b. There was only
121 b. between them at Williamstown; yet
Gaine Carrington went out in much stronger
demand than the stallion from Sydney.
Jim Munro was associated with the Vic-
toria Derby victory of Liberal, and will ride
that colt in the V.R.C. St. Leger. Naturally
he weighed out for A. G. Hunter’s colt in
the C. F. Orr Stakes. The choice of a
jockey for Chatham fell on Baxter, who
has lived in Melbourne for a considerable
time but was attached to the stable of J. M.
Cameron in M.L. when The Hawk was break-
ing records. Baxter handled Chatham ad-
mirably, but the bay stallion tired through
need of a public outing. Liberal was can-
tering behind Chatham and Viol d’Amour at
the home turn. As soon as Munro called
upon him the son of Windbag swept past
Fred Williams’s candidate and scored, with
a lot in hand, by three-quarters of a length.
Gaine Carrington tore a piece out of one
of his feet when spelling. The affected foot
is unsightly, but the colt’s galloping powers
are not impaired. By making a dead-heat
with Chatham for second place he put up a
capital performance, for Chatham had been
in the van when Gaine Carrington was shut
in near the tail of the field. The Maoriland-
bred colt finished like a streak of lightning.
Gaine Carrington may perhaps be produced
for the Newmarket Handicap, instead of
the St. Leger. If that happens the classic
Bert'/ Easy to see their ukes
this Year, isn't it ?"
Giert'/'Yes, But you mem are not
SO CLEVER AS VOUTHINVO'
Bert ; " v/hy, hows that
GiERT : " You DOMT SEE TME HOOKS,
-TOO?
event at Flemington should be easy money
for Liberal. He will have nothing to fear
from Top Hole, unless that son of Heroic
improves greatly.
••. • *
Vauiitry may follow in the footsteps of
liis sire Heroic by leading home a New-
market Handicap 'field. D. J. Price, his
trainer, discovered last spring that the colt
could not stay, and sprint victories are being
concentrated on. Vauntry opened at 2 to 1
for the Marine Handicap. Holt and his fol-
lowers piled money on Some Hero, another
son of Heroic. Earlier in his career Some
Hero was raced by C. B. Kellow, the
breeder - he now belongs to W. M. Gollan,
of Sydney, whose wife has Casque d’Or in
Holt’s stable At one .stage of the betting
Some Hero touched 6 to 4, while Vauntry
receded to 6to 1. The chance of Some Hero
was destroyed by a mix-up at the start, but
it is unlikely that he would have won.
Vauntry was quickest away; steadied by
“Tich” Wilson, he permitted Pacific Flight
(also of the Heroic tribe) to make the run-
ning. It cost Vauntry little exertion to win
by half a length from Hathalie, with old
Merab third.
Eastern Chief, winner of the Wyndham
Handicap, belongs to J. P. Arthur, who
captured the A.J.C. Metropolitan of 1930
with Cragford. These horses were bred by
Arthur, who imported the sire, Eastern Mon-
arch, from England. Arthur and his trainer,
P. B. Quinlg.ii, were ambitious of annexing
a Derby with Eastern Chief. He failed in
the spring classics, but ran a good race in
the Melbourne Cup. The intention is to
start Eastern Chief in the St. Leger. He
looks to be outclassed there, but ought to
have a good chance in the Australian Cup
with 7st. 31b., a stone less than the impost
of Gaine Carrington, who is of similar age.
Mick Poison gained third money in the
Wyndham Handicap with Trevallion, who
finished encouragingly. Trevallion will meet
Eastern Chief on 71b. better terms in the
Australian Cup, the Melbourne handicappers
being at variance concerning his merits.
Sensational happenings at Williamstown
were the February Trial victory of Stranger
after being left at the post and the disas-
trous plunge on Miramond for the juvenile
event. Stranger, whose dam, Bindweed, gave
C. J. Boyd, a fatal fall when racing over
hurdles, is engaged in the Australian Cup
with 6st. I lib. Miramond is the Limond
colt that made an inconspicuous debut in
Sydney on Boxing Day. He was brought
over from Maoriland by J. T. Jamieson*
former trainer of Ammon Ra. Track gal-
lops at Caulfield disclosed the speed of Mira-
mond ; but he is still green, and, encounter-
ing trouble at the start, was never danger-
ous. There will be an opportunity for Mira-
mond to atone on Saturday next, when the
V.A.T.C. autumn meeting opens. In all pro-
bability the Oakleigh Plate will have to be
run in divisions again. At time of writing
there is no means of foretelling the person-
nel of the fields, because many of the en-
trants may be reserved for the Newmarket
Handicap.
X 'l- *
For Caulfield on Saturday;—
Oakleigh Plate: Closing Time; next, St.
Ardent.
Bond Cup: Eastern Chief; next, Topical.
St. George Stakes : Liberal; next, Chatham.
* * * *
Racing has toughened Fordlight, who had
a trick of blowing out at five furlongs before
he was transferred to the pony courses (now
under A.J.C. jurisdiction) a few months ago.
He saw out six furlongs in the Flying Handi-
cap at Canterbury Park. He was tested
thoroughly over the last furlong by Ques-
tionnaire (7 t 0 2) and Dunerc (4 to 1),
but beat the filly by a neck, Dunerc being
the same distance away. Dunerc’s rider lost
a stirrup-iron, so the stable was unfortunate.
This was a capital betting race, considering
that there were only seven starters; a per-
sistent searcher could have got 4 to 1 the
field,
**' . ‘
Voted unlucky to have been defeated by
Lavington in the middle-distance handicap
at Roseliill, Nord was in strong request for
the Canterbury Handicap. Still, the mod-
erate Blairfort had almost as many backers:
Nord went out at 5 to 2, after threes had
been laid, and Blairfort at threes. Nord s
jockey, A. W. Parr, is about the smallest
boy in the business. *He looks a cherub, not
long out of the cradle. But he lias a nice
seat in the saddle, and proved that he has
a good head on liis shoulders. There werq
exclamations of disgust from Nord’s backers
when they saw that Kelso’s apprentice was
keeping his mount at the tail of the field;
but the boy knew what he was about. Nord
had tired at Rosehill when rushed to the
front with a furlong to go ; and Parr waited
for a late run. He got it, on the rails at
that, and the half-brother to Statesman won
cleverly by a half-length from Dreamdale
(5 to 1), who beat Double Dutch by the
same margin. There were cheers for the
tiny jockey when Nord came in.
Snow Sun (10 to 1) carried D. U.
Seaton’s colors to victory in a division of
Highweight Handicap. He did his job
rather dashingly; all the same. Confab, his
conqueror in a race at the previous Canter-
bury meeting, did not come into increased
favor for the Campsie Handicap, from which
Snow Sun had been withdrawn, receding,
in fact, to forlorn-hope odds. Cylanta, the
favorite (at twos), won comfortably by a
length from old Strength (15 to 1) and
Barren Corn (10 to l) after Patiala had
tried to lead all the way. Booth served up
a hot favorite, in Tatyoon, for the second
division of the Highweight Handicap. Tat-
yoon, badly interfered with at the start, was
fated to go under to Wedge Call, who at
Rosebery on the Wednesday had run a close
second to Greenaway, the fleetest thing on
the former pony courses.
* * * *
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Glenfield Handicap: News Girl; next,
Wedge Call.
Farm Novice Handicap: Patiala; next,
Astute.
February Handicap : New King ; next, Nord.
Minto Handicap: Bold Boy; next,
Cylanta.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Sydney Stadium is “under new manage-
ment’’ again—that of Charjie Lucas, who
knows the business if anyone does. He has
matched Fred Henneberry and Ron Richards
for an initial bill.
sji * ❖ *
Camera, the man-mountain, has evidently
recovered the form which he lost through
doing too much training in night clubs. He
knocked out the highly-thought-of Scharf in
13 rounds at New York last week, and is
now assured of a match with Sharkey for
the championship.
*i* *i* H»
Melbourne’s Bonny Muir was cleverer than
Walter Browning at Leichhardt last Satur-
day, but Browning was much the heavier,
and his greater strength enabled him to
secure a fall with a Boston crab in the third
round. With a short-anji scissors Muir put
Browning’s shoulders on the mat in the fifth.
Browning dragged referee Labriola down in
the sixth, and all three struggled on the floor.
The match resulted in the drearily familiar
draw.
Ins and Outs
Woodfull gained a decided advantage for
the Australians engaged in the fourth Test
match at Brisbane by winning the toss, and
he and the vice-captain, Richardson, who
accompanied him to the wickets, gave the
side an excellent start. It was a trying
wicket to bowl on, and the humidity bothered
the English expresses, but they stuck dog-
gedly to their task. Nevertheless, the open-
ing batsmen were unconquered at lunch-
time, when they had put 56 on the board, and
they remained together until 133 had gone
up. Then Richardson (S 3) was smartly
stumped by Ames off Hammond. He had
played the fast stuff splendidly—lie nearly
always plays it well—and had given only
one chance—a hot one, off Larwood, which
was near enough to Jardine, fielding in the
gully. It looked as if Bradman would soou
follow the South Australian to the pavilion,
so streakily did lie shape against Larwood
for two or three overs. However, the cham-
pion got over liis unsteadiness and settled
down to play a valuable innings for liis side,
He lost Woodfull at 200; the skipper was
bowled by Mitchell for 67, made in a little
over four hours—extremely slow, but the
crowd didn’t mind that. McCabe (20) made
some nice shots and a few that were just
flukes, .and then snicked Allen, the ball being
cleverly snapped up by Jardine. Ponsford
(8) kept Bradman (71) company till six
o’clock, when, with 3 down for 251, the Aus-
tralians were on good terms with themselves.
Leg-theory was turned on a few times, but
it was innocuous, and the hooting of Lar-
wood was stupid. Woodfull, more generous,
and perhaps regretting his outburst at Adel-
aide, paid a tribute to the fast bowlers tor
the unfaltering manner in which they had
pegged away in weather which must have
told heavily on men from their climate.
Larwood was himself again on Saturday,
and he soon disposed of the Bradman-Pons-
ford partnership. Bradman was clean bowled
when he had added 5 to his overnight score,
and Ponsford when he had put on 11.
Bradman made a feeble attempt to play the
ball that took his wicket, but Ponsford did
not even use the bat: a dismal exhibition
for internationals to give. It was 5 for
267 when Darling and Bromley became asso-
ciated. The colts knocked up 25 brightly;
then Darling was caught behind the wickets
off Allen for 17. Bromley delighted _ the
crowd by hitting 12 off one over ot Lar-
wood’s, and when lunch was taken he was
26 n. 0., seven being down for 317. But in
Larwood’s first over after the adjournment,
the Westralian, still 26, was caught by
Verity, and, no one else doing anything to
speak of, the innings closed for 340 —very
disappointing after such a noble beginning.
Of the bowlers, only A r erity failed to take a
wicket; Larwood got 4 for 101, Mitchell
for 49, H'ammond 2 for 61 and Allen 2 for So.
The Englishmen seldom gave anything away
in the field, and Jardine handled his bowlers
and his fieldsmen with his customary skill.
Dour he may be, a crowd-pleaser he cer-
tainly is not: but, to give the man his due,
he is the ablest overseas skipper seen m this
country since the war.
Jardine and Sutcliffe began the English-
men’s innings at ten minutes to three, lhey
were still together at ten minutes to six,
when stumps were drawn owing to the bad
light, having made 99 —Sutcliffe 51, Jar,
dine 41—by dogged batting There was no-
thing exhilarating about, either man s show-
ing, but doubtless both were restrained by
the knowledge that Paynter was down with
tonsilitis and a touch of the sun, and might
not be able to reappear. They continued
batting patiently on Monday, but at 114
O’Reilly effected a separation; Jardine was
caught behind the wickets for 46. It was
the first actual chance he gave, and Lore
took it like an artist. Hammond and Sut-
cliffe were partners when 150 was hoisted;
Hammond was methodical for the most part,
but once he hit a sixer off O’Reilly. Pre-
sently O’Reilly got Sutcliffe 1.b.w., and it
was '2 for 157. Hammond (20), Leyland
(12) and Wyatt (12) soon followed, and
the situation became so serious that Paynter
put on his pads. When Allen (13) left it
was 6 for 216, O Reilly having taken three
wickets and Love caught three,
* * . . . ~ ,
For Victoria against South Aus. at Mel-
bourne Oakley did well to get 103 by crisp
batting. Thomas (53), OBnen (44) and
Plant (43) made creditable contributions to
the total of 299. Grimmett and Lee got the
wickets; 6 for 109 and 4 for 80 respectively,
Nitschke (88) made just on half of the
South Aus. score (197) ; this man will have
to be played in the next Test match I lant,
who bats left-hand and bowls right-hand,
finished -with the best average, taking 3 for
33 ; Fleetwood Smith got 3 for 51. Grimmett
(3 for 53) was again on the spot in l ie. s
second innings, and so was Lee (5 for _3) ,
they dismissed the Vies, for 120.
*** * „
“Rugby” : In reply to Shrewsbury (B.
23/l/’33), Rugby wore pale-blue shirts till
1914, when for obvious reasons they were
discontinued. I left Rugby in IJIJ, when
they had not been revived. They were a
mark of distinction for the First XI only,
the rest of the school wearing white,
(Continued on next page.)


c,
0470
r
m
y&
MmO
WkenZfou
Siwthy
To KNOW when you START on
a shooting trip that you will
come back with a “good bag,”
provided birds are about, is a
big source of satisfaction.
The keen shooter with
a good gun who uses
ELEY & KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
DOES know this because Eley
and Kynoch cut out the chance
of lost birds, killing cleanly and
being absolutely reliable under
all conditions.
Perfect ignition, high 351
velocity, wonderful pat-
tern and penetration
—and long range —
can always be
relied upon.
Obtainable
Everywhere
■O-r
V 9
9'jP
BEC
vc
df
mm
Tlie Man who makes you this sensational
offer—see below.
ARE YOU A
NERVOUS
SUBJECT?
A Sensational Book devoted entirely
to all forms of nervous disorders is
offered FREE to readers of this paper.
WITHOUT the use of drugs, apparatus.
tonics, faith cure, or any other un-
natural stimulant, you can develop the
Nerve Force of a tiger—easily and simply
in your own home. Whether you are just
nervous at times, whether you blush or
stammer or can’t sleep, whether you are
self-conscious or shy, you should read
this remarkable book, because it will
explain to you the reason for your weak-
ness! This book fully explains and illus-
trates how YOU can get rid of youi-
nervousness permanently. You will feel
the benefit in the first few days. (Gradu-
ally your nerve troubles will be overcome,
your will-power strengthened, and you
will have complete command of your
thoughts and actions!
AMONGST THE CONTENTS OF THIS
AMAZING BOOK ARE
M Y personal experience as a nervous
wreck, brain power comes with nerve
force, how to overcome blushing and self-
consciousness. how to develop a com-
manding personality, how to develop
will-power, and dozens of more vitallv
interesting features all fully explained
and illustrated.
SEND FOR THIS FREE BOOK NOW!
JUST 500 copies of this sensational book
1 will be issued Free to readers of this
journal in the next four weeks. You are
advised to get your application in the
post to-day without fail, and by return
post you will receive a book that will
open your eyes. But please post to-day!
MAIL, NOW!
FREDERICK GRAY, Desk 11,
Lombard Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me a copy of your book,
“Nerve Strength, Self-Consciousness and
Personality.” I am enclosing 4d. in
stamps to cover cost of postage.
NAME
Address
15/2 /’33
Ins and Outs
N.S.W. retained the Sheffield Shield by
beating South Aus. For a time in the second
innings the visitors looked like making the
356 required to win. The tail-enders failed,
however, O’Reilly taking 5 for 56 and Mill
4 for 61, and the innings closed at 257.
N.b.VV. has won all this season’s Sheffield
games outright,, except that with Victoria ia
Melbourne, in which it led by 13(1 runs on the
first innings. Rain confined play to two days.
* * * *
With a first-innings score of 201 and six
Englishmen out for 169, Queensland seemed
to be doing well in its match with Jardine’s
men on the ’Gabba ground; then Allen
(oo) and Amos (80) changed the complexion
Of the innings, which ended at 343 (Oxen-
ham 4 for 70, Govan 3 for 59). Queensland
collapsed for 81 in the second innings, Lar-
wood taking 6 for 38 and Verity 4 for 20.
So England won by an innings and 61 runs.
* * * *
“K. 0.”; Oldfield had at least one consola-
tion when he received that dinnyhayeser on
the head from Larwood at Adelaide—he
retired hurt.” When the Australian XI of
1921 was in England, Ernest Tyldesley was
less fortunate. Hit on the head by Gregory
m one of the Tests, the Lancashire lad
Hopped out to it and had to be carried off
After hitting him the ball glanced off his
head into the wicket and the scorebook
recorded * Tyldesley, b. Gregory,” thus adding
insult to injury. s
* * * *
“Trent Bridge”; The departure of Sid
llird to play in Lancashire League cricket
reminds me that quite a few Australians
have been prominent in the cricket of the
Gounty Palatine. Arthur Richardson, Frank
u iveefe, McDonald and Bennett arc of the
more modern vintage, but before them Iver-
mode and Dr. Poidevin wore the Red Rose,
though they did not take a hand in League
cricket. Middlesex is another county which
THE NEXT-BEST PLACE. hin.
URCHIN: "Hey missus, I couldn’ get in ter see the Test match, so will yuh arsk the
coves that s carried in ter this joint to sign me autergraph-book?”
*iri S borrowed from Australia. Besides
Grubby Allen, of Jardine’s team, B. J. Kort-
lias %ured in Middlesex sides, while
Spottortli also had a brief term there. Among
' ll o professionals were Albert Trott, Tarrant
and Mick Roche. Sussex claimed Murdoch
a? 1 ' \ time, and Surrey the Queenslander
Alarshall. Cuft'e played for Worcester county
aiui k erris for Gloucestershire. Few Eng-
lishmen have taken much part in Australian
cricket of late years. An outstanding
instance was J. N. Crawford, who played for
South Aus., and proved himself a brilliant
all-rounder.
* * * *
“The Barbadoes” : The West Indian
cricketers who are revisiting England this
coming season were relying on Constantine
as one of their stock bowlers. Constantine
is under contract to the Nelson club. The
VV.I authorities asked Nelson to let the
black appear in the three Test matches.
Nelson has replied that he may play in the
match at Manchester close by, but as for the
others lie will have to stick to his job with
the League club. With Arthur Richardson,
Mild and McDonald figuring in Lancashire
League cricket and other Australians likely
to emulate them, the Nelson precedent is
of some interest to this country.
Car and Cycle
r „ Kingston ’: The Queensland Automobile
Club, which has been sitting tight for some
years, contenting itself with looking after
the interests of motorists, has resolved to
embark again on motor-car competitions. Its
last shy at anything of the sort was the six
days reliability trial from Brisbane to
Katoomba (N.S.W.) in 1928. The club
kicks oft with a 100-mile reliability trial,
open to all motorists, oil February 18. with
several minor events as a garnish. Some
years back these trials were very popular
lr. Bananaland, the big events being the
annual trial runs from Brisbane to Sydney
regularly held from 1920 to
LLd inclusive. One glorious event was to
thirsty Rockhampton in 1924. Those who
survived the experience still speak of it with
hushed admiration.
* * * *
“Wooden Rim”: Driving a VS Ford
Norman Smith cut the Brisbane-to-Sydhey
recoid for cars by 274 minutes. The dis-
tanee is 6084 miles; Smith covered it in
14hi. 20 3 min., averaging 45.85 m.p.h. *
t * * *
: Touching that first-car contro-
versy (B. l/2/’33), this is to say that the
first of ali cars introduced into Australia
was John Pender’s Chicago-made Ilertel
kI 'vV n! S land, . ,cl in and driven about subur-
ban Melbourne in November, 1897 It didn’t
run on petrol, but on a near-relation-
naplitha. In a trial it covered nine miles on
a gallon ofspint. The vehicle ■is wp l
bourne. 1 ” <he - M
'‘Slide” : Brisbane is not to see the inter-
national motor-cycle riders after all, though
some weeks ago the promoters of the tour
took. a tentative option over the use of
Davies Park, the only available speedway.
Inspection by a couple of the team showed
that the track would need a lot of repairing
to bring it up to the standard of safety
required by the visitors, and so the deal is off.
Brisbane has always been noted for the
rather sporting character, to put it mildly, of
its motor-cycle tracks. Some time ago,
when the sport was booming, spectators used
to ask for their money back if an evening
went by without a rider or some of the spec-
tators becoming casualties, or if a sect‘on
of the track fence was not reduced to
bath-heater chips by a collision with an un-
controllable machine.
* * *
“Wooden Rim”: In Melbourne the other
day “Fatty” Lamb smashed an Opperman
record by Cycling 60 miles 575 yards behind
motor-pace jn 60 minutes, a truly wonderful
ride. Lamb has designs on other motor-
paced records.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Divot Digger” : One aspect of golf which
lias not received from Australian organisations
the attention it deserves is the long-driving
competition. Contests are occasionally held,
but no official record is kept. 11. IV. Hatters-
h\v, of Sydney, is popularly rated as the
long-distance king .since he beat Rufus
Stewart, of South Aus. But that was in
a round of the open championship, and the
merits of the twq were gauged from the fact
that Llattersley Consistently outdrove the
other. Special driving Competitions would
be interesting interludes in the big tourna-
ments, with winning distances properly re-
corded. They would probably bring to’light
.some players hitherto wasting their abili-
ties on the suburban air. In Britain and
America long-driving competitions are
greatly in favor.
• “U°ylake” •' Joyce Wethered has taken a
job as golf adviser to a West End London
store, where she is to give daily demonstra-
tions and advice about golf and the clubs
and clothes to wear with it. This automati-
cally makes the lady a professional, and
since a professional golferettc has not been
known m Britain since time whereof the
memory of man runneth not to the contrary
the Women’s Golf Union is having hysterics,
and the demand for burnt feathers and
sal volatile lias the fowlyards and the
chemical factories working overtime. St.
Andrews is to be asked for a ruling, but the
law is plain enough.
* * s ' : jJ;
Hoylake ’: Challenge matches between
professionals are coming into fashion in Aus-
tralia. J hey have been a commonplace in
Britain for many years. Compston, the chal-
lenger, and Gene Sarazen are to play a
series of five 36-hole matches for £lOO each
n England at the end of May. Compston
had several tussles of this kind with liagen
some years ago, and was not successful. A
section of British golfers would prefer to
see Cotton in Compston’s place, and it is
Hoped that a meeting between him and Sara-
zen may follow.
* * * *
“Govett’s Leap” : There is a par-three hole
on Iyatoomba (N.S.W.) links known as “The
Devil’s Own”; most players consider them-
selves' lucky to make it in six. The other
day George Woodfull did it in one. At the
same time he holds the record for the worst
performance at the same hole—l 6. This was
in a sealed nine-hole event. When the
envelopes were opened it was found that this
hole was one of the omitted ones, so Wood-
full won the competition.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Melbourne’s National
i ark public golf course has proved so suc-
cessful that the present nine holes are to be
extended to 18. The new holes will include
™ e °J ,550 yards and two over 400 yards
lhe full course will measure 6048 yards
while the numbering will be altered, f&e’
second section being from 1 to 9 and the
first 10 to 18. Doubles tees will be avail-
able, and the layout has been planned to
make for variety. The work in hand is
being financed from the unemployment-relief
fund,
* * * *
. “Colonel Damurize”: I have been much
interested in a description of an American
invention for picking up wooden tees. Tees
cost a shilling a hundred, and naturally the
possible loss of one revolts Scotsmen and
American millionaires, both greatly addicted
to golf. This improved tee has a tinv
magnet attached to it by a string. The
wooden elubs have a. steel button a t the
grip end, and by placing this" on the magnet
the tee comes to hand without, aujr. neces?
sity for bonding. With the irons the head
of the club is used, of course. When I first
played golf associates wore body armor and
dresses tightly buttoned up the back. Stoop-
ing was thus impossible for them, and in
mixed foursomes the men spent half tlieir
time dodging flying buttons and then pick-
ing them up. Golfers who knew their busi-
ness invariably carried a supply of pins in
those days, and there was a perennial de-
mand for them.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: The American
tennis-players, now on their way home, said
all sorts of luce things about this country
and its tennis inhabitants before departing.
It they only maintain that tone when they
hud themselves by their own firesides they
will go far to further that international
amity which recent cricket matches have
tended to warp. Vines’s selection for the
Davis Cup team is Crawford, McGrath,
Quist and Turnbull; Turnbull, lie says, lias
the only really severe service among the
Australians, Generally he thinks that the
Australian stroking, though steadier, is not
so severe as that of the Americans, who, fol-
lowing the example of players like Tilden,
McLoughlin and other Champions of the
past, try to specialise in liard-liitting.
“Kooyong”: For once in a way, most of
the Australian tennis championships this
year stayed at home, though the Americans
were successful in the doubles. It has not
always been so when an overseas team has
been in Australia. Alexander was the first
IJitlander to take an Australian title, the
American winning the singles in 1908.
I arke, of the British 1012 Davis Cup team,
won the singles that year and also the
doubles with Dixon. In 1915 F. G Lowe
won the singles, and in 1910 another Briton.
Colonel Ivingscote, followed suit. Mor
recent exotic champions were Borotra,
singles and doubles (with Brugnon), ami
J. C. Gregory, singles.
* =i= * *
“Kooyong”: Some of the junior talent
seen at the Australian tennis championships
ill Melbourne was very promising. Leavin”
°nt McGrath and Quist, Rogers, Chrystal
and Henry, who helped to retain the Linton
[, U I ) for N.S.W., made a fine showing for
their State. I reak, a South A us. schoolboy
has a free style and a variety of strokes,
and made a favorable impression Han-
cock is a Queenslander of promise, and Har-
rison, a 14-year-old Tassie, has a remarkable
command of shots. America and France have
built up to their present tennis standard by
pushing the young players on at every oppor-
tunity. It is time Australian tennis authori-
ties m the various States woke up and
adopted a similar policy. At present the
juniors are left to shift for themselves by
the ruling nabobs.
* * *
“Hotham” : In his report on the last Davis
Cup tour, manager Clemenger urges that
tuture matches—lie is keen on the American
zone be played as near as possible to the
scene of later engagements on account of
the travelling involved in going and coming
from one country to another and the addi-
tional expense. The foolish match with
Cuba on tile last tour cost far more than
Australian share of the takings, and
left the team knocked up for the meeting
with America. He thinks, too, that Wim-
bledon should be stung for a larger guar-
antee next time, the Australians being
always a good draw, and the English body
rolling in riches. y
Miscellaneous
As a breast-stroke swimmer Clare Dennis
has no sisters near the throne—in these
S i t- • , Iu k le 220 yards champion-
Aiip at Adelaide she cleared out from the
held and won by 40yds. from Frances Bult
i"' 9 I ' osec -’ beating the previous best
time—her own—by 3 l-ssec. Frances Bult
was supreme in the 100 yards free-style
championship, and, among the lads Phil
Hooper collected the 100 yards free-style
championship for N.S.W. in 56 l-ssee •
/M e ew J \ n(l i' r Tremble and Noel Ryan
(N.S.W.) dead-heated for second. A. liF-
ginson (Vic.) had an easy win in the 220
yaids men s breast-stroke championship in
4-osec. In a special attempt over
fin i i_ yarda be broke the previous record
°f 10.4-osec. by l-ssec.
* * * *
’^ottnsloe"; 11. A. Bennett, one of the
Olympic selectors, threw a shovelful of fat
li the fire at the Australian swimming con-
ference held at Perth. The burden of his
complaint was that nearly half the people
sent, to Los Angeles should not have been
selected. He was particularly severe on some
t runn< T S ellosei J- sa ying that they
sl ouM have been replaced by swimmers.
ii 1 * hm-tment criticism of the Olympic team
was followed by an irrational censure of
the manager, J. S. Eve, because he hadn’t
reported on the swimmers under his control
to the Swimming Union. Eve furnished a
report on the whole team’s performances to
the people to whom he was responsible, the
Olympic Council Why he should have gone
to the trouble of sending a separate report
to the Swimming Union, with which he had
nothing to do, no one knows save the union
itself which seems to have formed an un-
duly high estimate of its own importance.
“Hamilton” ; Queensland’s loss of the 18ft.
sailing championship in Sydney was not un-
expected in Brisbane, for it is rarely that
the Australian title has been won away from
home m this event. Only two skippers have
™ , &°?°£ in the lo »g series of races.
Colin Clark, of Queensland, won with Vision
%' Tort Jackson in 1922-23. N.S.W. veteran
Chris \\ ebb took the title on the Swan
"•er in 1008-09 with Australian, and in
1924-25 with H. C. Press.
* * * *
w VV’f' : Vic. boat Triad, sailed bv
■V ' Osborne, had an easy win in the final of
~e . Australian dinghy championship at
Adelaide. She had won the first heat, and
had a clear lead in the second when a broken
span forced her to retire. Sunny (S.A.)
was second in the final and also in the cham-
pionship, one point behind Triad.
* * * *
"The Gaffer”: Austin Rohertson is
credited with having run 140 -yards in 13
UjesCc. at Wangaratta (Vic.). Harry
Hutchens ran ■ -the distance in 134 sec. in
1885 at Putney, England. HutcJjons had a
favoring wind, but that didn't prevent his
time going into the record-book—it would
(or should) nowadays. Perhaps the wind
or the slope of the ground was in Robert-
son's favor. Though a fine sprinter, he has
not hitherto figured as a record-maker.


JlBdibiea'u
Queensland’s Great
Morning Newspaper,
The
Daily Mail
Brisbane
Is Read By Those Who
Spend Most Freely!
It enjoys marked popularity in city and
country alike —a widespread distribution
that is the desideratum of merchants and
manufacturers whose goods are everywhere
procurable. The “Daily Mail” will get
you results. It is read by all classes and
particularly by young married folks, whose
wants are many and varied. Its favorable
circulation .position has been definitely
established. Rates etc., from
ROBT. JACKSON,
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
THE SHOP WINDOW OF THIRTY COUNTRIES
PARIS INTERNATIONAL
TRADE FAIR
13th to 29th May, 1933.
Universally recognised as the world’s greatest art and manufactures exhibition.
8,000 exhibitors with permanent buildings covering an area double the size of
the Place de la Concorde.
Rail, steam and air travel discounts to buyer-visitors.
Full particulars from
THE FRENCH TRADE COMMISSIONER,
Ban\ of N.S.W . Chambers, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
• • •
Opposite Union
from Entrance
SYDNEY.
Club and Two Minutes
to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tarifi
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. .. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman "needs t
know.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
With her sunshine and blue skies there
is no reason why Sydney should not go gay
and have a carnival week similar to those
staged yearly by cities in the South of
Europe. To this end leading citizens have
banded themselves into a committee, arid the
result will be a festival week commencing
on April 1 and ending on April 8.
Among the listed events are a glit-
tering nageant through the city streets
and a Venetian carnival, which the Royal
Sydney Yacht Club proposes to make the
most stirring aquatic event on the harbor
since the arrival of the First Fleet. Plans
are already maturing for the impressive
ball by the Historical Society. This will
be held in David Jones’s ballroom on April
4 ; a committee headed by the C.J.’s lady, Mrs.
Wentworth, Mrs. Guy Blaxland, Miss
Walker-Smith, the Kelso King lady and
C'arlotta Doyle is putting its best foot for-
ward to arrange a dazzling array of sets.
Archbishop Cattanco, an impressive figure
in the red vestments from which it takes its
name, was the celebrant at the Red Mass,
which marks the beginning of the legal year.
Catholic men of law, Judges, barristers
(these in wig and gown), solicitors and
students, thronged St. Mary’s. They marched
in procession round the cathedral and
down the centre aisle, and at the close of
the mass they knelt to receive the apostolic
blessing. Dr. Cattaneo is himself a lawyer,
and holds the doctorate of laws of Genoa
University.
Blanche Hain, of Manly, had a. wedding
that really was something to write home
about. She was married jin New Guinea
recently to W. R. Humphries, the Resident
Magistrate at Tufi, and the vows were ex-
changed at the Wanigela Mission Church.
Miss Turner, attached to the mission,
’maided in primrose yellows, a choir of
native girls sang “The Voice that Breathed,’’
and outside a glittering arch of steel was
formed by a guard of native police. Cap-
tain Austen, of Samarai, armed the bride,
whose frock was a froth of blue and white
chiffons, to the altar. Miss Hullett, of the
Nainu Mission, arranged the bridal bouquet
of white lilies.
A good Australian took the long last flight
when Commander Geoffrey Trcmayne Rodd
was killed recently while flying at St. Moritz
in Switzerland. He was indeed the Little
Boy from Manly in the Great War, for he
was only 15 when as a midshipman he went
through his first engagement. After the
war he served in the Royal yacht, and six
months ago he retired from the Navy to
take up commercial flying. He was a
great-great-great-grandson of Dr. Thomas
Arndell, who arrived in Australia with the
First Fleet in H.M.S. Supply; and his
great-great-grandfather was the John Tre-
mayne Rodd who was assistant surveyor to
the N.S.W. Government in 1821. His
maternal grandfather was Archibald Colqu-
houn Fraser, one time Under-Secretary for
Justice in this State.
It’s a long way round from Killara to
Vaucluse, hut that’s the distance pretty
Peggy Morgan and Howard Cullen-Ward
travelled to be made man and wife. Padre
H. W. Barder tied the knot at St. Michael’s,
and as the wedding was an afternoon one
Nature as well as Fred Searl took a hand
in the decorations. The bride wore a smart
little toque instead of the time-honored veil,
but she carried yellow roses and frangipanni
and had two attendants, Enid Brown and
Mrs. Bruce Loder, the ’groom’s sister. A
family reception was held at the Rose Bay
Golf Club. The ’groom’s father, by the way,
is Rex Cullen-Ward, Consul for Portugal.
Maorilanders met in great force and
feather to jubilate over the signing of the
Treaty of Waitangi. Ninety-three years
ago. handsome and impressive in their
feathered capes, the Maori chieftains handed
over to Queen Victoria all their rights and
powers of sovereignty, and last week the
Enzed Women’s Association made the anni-
versary the reason for a tea party of great
dimensions. This was held at the Pick-
wick Club, and while tea was being, served
the president, Mrs. J. W. A. Prentice, re-
told the story of the signing of the treaty,
Another bit of local color was provided by
Mr. Havyatt, who told of the Maori war
canoe which is being sent from Wellington
to Sydney for the Festival Week celebra-
tions.
The canoe is over 100 years old, and be-
longs to a tribe whose chief’s name is Wha-
karua, which means two canoes. It will
take 50 men to man the canoe, and the
curator of the museum will fit them out as
Maori warriors. Alfred Hill is writing a
rowing song for them, and Frances Scully
will train a group of girls in the pretty poi
dance.
Emily Marks, Ann Stuart Gurr, Ethelwyn
White, Mrs. Hugh Walker and Montgomery
Stuart were responsible for the programme,
in which Maori songs and music played a
great part; and, since Montgomery Stuart
didn’t know any poem with a real blood-
curdling huka, he did his Congo number sin-
ister with black magic and the heavy brood-
ing atmosphere of the jungle.
Sydney violinist Nora Williamson gave a
recital in Hobart’s Town Hall in Music
Week, with Lieut.-Governor Nicholls and
his lady in an appreciative audience. With
the city organist, Scott-Power, who also gets
wonderful harmonies out of the old instru-
ment in St. David’s Cathedral on Sundays,
in support and a dashing pianist and
luscious soprano as first aids, the Harbor
City girl scored a big success.
Novelist Roy Bridges, whose latest novel
“Cloud” is written round the gloomy days of
Van Diemen’s Land, knows his Tasmania from
George Town to Hobart and from Flinders
Island to Port Arthur. Just now he and
the devoted sister who housekeeps for him
(she’s Miss Bridges and often shakes a pen
in the Inky Way herself) are across the bay
from Ilobart in the sea-breezy waterburb of
Bellerive, where they rent a house amongst
rural surroundings.
If ever a man has cause to quarrel with
the press of Australia it is A. E. W. Mason.
This Letter went along to meet him, expect-
ing after the photos, in the papers to see
somebody who looked more or less like a
bloodhound —all dewlaps and things. She
found an upright spruce man, sixtyish but
not at all autumnal. The Major-on-parade
bearing is no doubt a result of service during
th 6 war. He is not a fluent talker about
himself, but is obviously delighted when lie
meets someone who knows his books inti-
mately.
He told this toiler that he took two and
a half years to write “Three Gentlemen,” the
book which holds such a fascinating picture
of Britain under the Roman rule. The
second part of the story, which is set in
Elizabethan England, called forth a long
letter of congratulation from George Mac-
aulay Trevelyan, Professor of Modern His-
tory at Cambridge. So perhaps there are
better ways of creating a novel than by sit-
ting down and banging it out on the type-
writer at such a speed that the ball-bearings
run hot. Four months of every year the
novelist lives on his yacht, and he has a
house in London.
Theatre-going Australia remembers Mr.
Mason by “The Witness for the Defence.”
Victor Mann recalls going down to Melbourne
while brilliant Ethel Irving was starring in
this play; he and his friend wired and booked
their seats a fortnight before they left Syd-
ney. The novelist and the artist met for
the first time sinc6 1926 at a lunch given
by the trustees of Taronga Park last Wed-
nesday. “I have met you before, Mr. Mann,
I think it was at dinner in the Garrick,” Mr.
Mason said as he greeted his old acquaint*
ance. But A.E.W. was a politician
once, and remembering faces is as much
a part of the politician s game as it
I s the detective s. The visitor spent
over an hour and a half pottering
about the highways and byways of the /00.
U®s an F.R.G.S. After lunch actm*,-
V-M. Latham came across to Taronga,
and he and P.M.G Parkhill took Mr. Mason
off to Palm Beach. A dinner with Earl
Beauchamp, an afternoon on the harbor and
a stroll around Manly were among his quiet
enjoyments at Sydney, and he declares that
nothing will keep him from coming back
soon.
When the men of Griffith formed a Con-,
stitutional Association last year they rigidly
excluded their womenfolk from the meetings
and lectures held. The sex retaliated by
forming a Griffith Women’s Association and
inviting lecturers from Sydney and Mel
bourne to help them keep abreast of cur
rent topics. They charitably permitted the
men to attend the lectures giren from theii
platform. The association had 48 membeis
at the beginning and has now lib on .it*
books Its president is Mrs. Paul Blumei,
one time of Ryde. and wife of the president
of the Griffith Constitutional Association.
Sirs F. K. Watson, B.Sc. (Edm.), wife of
the Government Principal Research Officei
on the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area,
the secretary, and Mrs. George Eipper, a
Sydney University graduate, is treasurer.
The popularity of the lectures 1S shown by
the fact that some members travel _o miles
to attend them.
Fay Hornby and Don Finley are up to
their eyes in arrangements for the Udd woia
of the Junior Theatre League. I Ins sprang
from the drama contest for schoolchildren
which these two lovers of the theatre organ-
ised in June. Forty groups entered,
and the silver mask given by the <L G.
Williamson firm went to Hornsby Girls
High. The contest is open to alt
girls and boys under 18, whether the j
are attending school or not; this year the
syllabus includes plays or scenes tiom
Dickens, a musical play and an Australian
play. The league will produce from time
to time mediaeval plays, interludes, comedies
and modern plays suitable to the young mind.
Norman Shelley, of the Sybil Thorndike
company, an authority on children s
theatres, gave Don and Fay many helpful
suggestions based on the work of the famed
children’s theatre in Endell-street, London.
The league is also offering book prizes for
the three best plays written by girls and
boys up to the age of 18. Margaret Jonson,
of Paling’s Buildings, will answer all in-
quiries.
This is Alice Bolger, of Scott Alexander’s
New Sydney Repertory Society. Alice is to
play the part of Valerie Merryman in Mor-
daunt Shairp’s
“T li c Crime
at Blossoms,”
which Scott
Alexander is
producing at
his Kent-
strect p 1 ay-
house next
S at u r d a y
(F e b. IS).
This talented
amateur
gained h e r
stage experi-
ence with the
Mosman Musi-
cal Society,
with which
she acted for
five years; and
she is still re-
membered in
Wagga for her
Dolores in
“Florodora.” Andrew Beresford’s Repertory
Society, the T.O.Y. Theatre, and the Burde-
kin Players, in addition to Scott Alexander’s
group, have been her training grounds in
drama. The young woman’s lyric soprano
is well known to 2FC and 2GB listeners.
Photo, from Dorothy Welding.
Queenslanders coming to Sydney need no
longer feel strangers in a strange State.
Besides having an association, the Banana-
landers (there seem to be thousands of them)
have a room of their own, and this is one
of the cheeriest places in the Assembly Hall
in Margaret-street. It was opened recently
amid great jubilation by president of
the association Arthur Pixley. Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax, who is president of the women’s
committee, is arranging a series of bridge
parties for the fourth Friday in every
month. Dutchie Somerville is president of
the younger set. The monthly bridge parties
will be held alternately in the afternoon and
in the evening, the latter for the benefit of
men members.
King’s new principal, padre C. T. Parkin-
son, and his wife'must have fallen in love
with their new domain on Saturday. Blue
sky and gold sunshine enwrapped the hours
and the playing fields stretched emerald-
green and satin-smooth to the distant, border
of willows, swaying and luxuriant. The old
school was qelebrating its 101st birthday, and
the new head and his wife made the occasion
coincide with their first reception to the old
boys and the parents of present boys.
Surrounded by members of the school coun-
cil they stood on the verandah of the main
building, beneath the school clock, and made
acquaintances. The new headmaster is of
medium height, hag keen bright eyes and an
almost jaunty way of carrying his dark grey
clerical clothes. He is a Maorilander, and
this Letter knew he had been at the war the
minute he told her he’d wangle his wife from
the group surrounding her to come and have
a talk. Mrs. Parkinson is a slim English
woman with a pleasant way of speech and
a friendly smile. She made her debut as
headmaster’s wife in beige laces,, ankle
length. White kid shoes and a beige baku
hat finished her outfit. Two sturdy sons
bore her company; the elder, very like his
father, already wore the King’s School uni-
form, so he must be 10. There was a tre-
mendous roll-up, boys of 40, 50 and 60 years
ago looking in to pay their respects. Three
generations of some families were among the
tea-drinkers. The tea was spread on the
lawn before the Head’s house, and soon there
wasn’t a blade of grass uncovered by feet
and tables, chairs and torsos couchant, not
to speak of cups of tea and plates of cakes,
beside those who were compelled by chair
shortage to sit on the ground. Service in
the school chapel, mellow with memories,
rounded off the day.
Mrs. Parkinson says she and her husband
have been impressed by the number of Old
Blues, as the old boys of Christ’s Hospital are
called, in Australia. From the time their
boat touched Australia Old Blues, some of
them former pupils of her husband, have been
getting in touch with them.
The St. John Ambulance Auxiliary is going
to miss Joan Higgins when she marries Dr.
Ray Kaines and goes off to live in Adelaide.
Joan has been secretary to St. John’s for
seven years, and last week she was the centre-
piece of an outsize party given by the
auxiliary at the Forum Club. As well as her
fellow workers’ good wishes, Joan received
a silver entree dish, which very pleasingly
toned in with her frock of horizon-blue flat
crepe. This was topped by a large white hat
which threw a grateful shadow over Joan’s
blushes when Dr. Purdy and J. D. Walker
broadcast her praises to an applauding
audience.
Three charities will benefit by the theat-
rical matinee at Her Majesty’s on February
21. They arc the Hospice for the Dying,
the Golden Fleece Kindergarten and the
J. C. Williamson sick fund. Cyril Ritchard
is the producer, and will direct a galaxy of,
stars, among them Madge Elliott, Coral
Browne and Dot Brunton. The cricketers
are to be present, and E. J. Tait, now hatch-
ing a new set of teeth in Molong, will be
well enough to flash a dazzling smile at all
concerned. Mrs. J. C. Williamson, Mrs.
Jimmy Bancks and Mrs, E. J. Tait are on
the committee.
The fame of Australia’s roses is spread-
ing abroad. The U.S.A. is seeking them for
its gardens, and the Council of the Rose
Society of America wishes a list of any
new and desirable novelty roses for inclu-
sion in its rose annual for 1933. This is
one of the standard handbooks of the rose
world ; and two names likely to be forwarded
by the National Rose Society of this State
are Warrawee, a pink and salmon bloom, and
Miss Australia, a flesh-pink and rose-colored
flower. The flrst has been raised by Mrs.
Fitzhardinge, of Warrawee; the second by
Mr. George Knight, of Homcbush.
From Brisbane: —
Sir Leslie Wilson gave some of the English team
a day at Southport, where the surfing carnival was
an attraction; other hosts who entertained others
among the visitors were the president of the Queens-
land Cricket Association, J. S'. Hutcheon, R. J.
Hartigan (vice-president) and H. Platt. Mrs. Hugh
Milman Came from Southport for the matches —she
was a Jardine, and the English captain is her rela-
tive.
The Governor, who opened the Stanthorpe show’,
was present at the C. of E. ball in the Tam o’
Shanter Hall. Lady Wilson and daughter Marjorie
were with his Ex. Lady Wilson wore amethyst
georgette with touches of diamente and a draped
shoulder cape; Marjorie Wilson was in white crepe
satin, with an emerald velvet jacket and slippers to
match; Mrs. Parker wore black mariette with a
red brocaded coat; Mrs. G. 0. Church was in black,
wdth a touch! ofi saxe blue; Mrs. Percy Walker,
Glenlyn, with whom the vice-regal party stayed
while at Stanthorpe (her husband is a nephew of
Dame Eadith Walker), wore black flat crepe and
lace.
A cheque for a holiday in Tasmania was handed
to that indefatigable worker for charity Mrs. F.
C„ Freudenberg at a musical afternoon at Lennon’s.
Mrs. H. Weller received the guests. Mrs. Freuden-
berg, always a smart froeker, was in ivory.
Brisbane’s National Show never had a more
popular secretary than the late James Bain. His
work lives after him, for he put the Royal National
Association on a Ann footing. His widow, four
sons and two daughters survive him.
Betty, daughter of the late H. G. Milner, is
engaged to Mervyn, son of the A. V. Dodwells, New
Farm. Her home is at Graceville and she is a
niece of the* late Lord Northcliffe.
Stanley Linnett married Elizabeth Maude Davison
in the Sherwood Presbyterian Church. The bride,
who was given away by her father, was in ivory
mariette. Eva Davison ’maided in cornflower blue.
The feasting was at the bride’s home.
Colonel Worthington Wilmer is off for an eight
months’ trip to India, Major A. V. Stark taking
his place at Government House.
At St. Andrew’s, South Brisbane, Charles Pearce
and Emily Michael were made one. The bride was
given away by her father; she wore angel-skin over
silk with French handmade lace veil and an orange
blossom necklace. There were three ’maids: Elsie
Michael in sky blue, Isabel Pearce in cream and
Lilian Reid in apricot. The palm court at the
Hotel Canberra saw the feast.
Handsome Grace Bell —she favors her grand-
mother, the late Lady Bell, who was a noted beauty
in her day—daughter of Colin Bell, of Westland, 'is
marrying Rowland Jameson, son of ex-Judge and
Mrs. Charles Jameson, at Longreach this week.


Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
WALTZES FROM VIENNA.
KING’S THEATRE:
ATHENE SEYLER and NICHOLAS HANNEN in
THE BREADWINNER.
“THE barrier miner *
will have its 45tli birthday ou March 1!
Forty-live glorious years in the most
Look-alive town in Australia. What a
record. The town is better shopped
than ever it was, and its newspaper,
“The Barrier Miner,” has come up to
the scratch Twice a day at least for the
past 45 years. The only newspaper in
Broken Hill covering the whole of the
Far West. Biggest sales West of
Sydney.
NOW ON SALE
Contract Bridg
by ENA BURROWS
winner, with the highest points, of the
Culbertson Cup, N.S.W., for Contract Bridge.
WITH COMPLETE NEW
SCORING TABLES AND
REVISED RULES.
A handsome little book, beauti-
fully bound and printed.
2/-
All Bookshops or
‘The Bulletin” Office
Missing Friends.
TWILL ALBERT HENRY NORMAN.
** who left Dunedin, New Zealand, on
3rd March, 1926, and who was last seen
in Auckland on or about the 17th March,
1926, or any person knowing his present
whereabouts, please communicate with the
undersigned. The said Albert Henry Norman
is, if still alive, entitled to a share in the
estate of his mother, Lydia Mary Norman,
deceased, who died intestate in December,
1931, and the communication of his present
whereabouts is to his advantage.
ASPINALL AND SIM,
Solicitors, 150 Rattray Street,
Dunedin, New Zealand.
TWILL JIM ANDERSON, late Atherton
** Tableland, communicate sister Upper
Barron. Parents dead. Financial arrange-
ments useless. Both parties refuse payment
until documents signed.
OCHUMACHER (Fennell).—Will Walter
Schumacher, last heard of at Kintpo,
communicate at once with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Adelaide, who has important
news for him.
Melbourne
Chatter
Old girls of Toorak College, Frankston,
danced and played bridge at their Alma
Mater. There was a great crowd, thanks to
the efforts of the organising committee, of
which Christina Brown, who sported ruby-
shaded lace, was president. The hon. secs,
of the hop were Mrs. J. G. W. Paxton, whose
velvet gown was pale pink: and Margaret
Gumming, charming in sunset-pink georgette.
Mary Wlieildon and Gwen Thomas took
charge of the bridge tables. The three Misses
Hamilton, the principals of the college, were
all present wearing black. Among the dancers
was Mrs. Norman Barrett, whose hydrangea-
blue raiment was lit up by a small cape of
shining sequins.
For the first time in donkey’s years the
Williamstown Racing Club struck a warm,
dry day for its summer meeting, Saturday
being beautifully fine. The most joyous
person on the course was Mrs. A. G. Hunter
when her husband’s horse Liberal won the
C. F. Orr Stakes, the principal event. She
wore pale bine linen topped by a shady
primrose-colored straw hat. Mrs. J. J.
Liston, wife of the chairman of the club,
sported nut brown crepe georgette that had
a yoke of ecru, lace, and her large hat was
of a darker tone of straw.
To gather funds for the furnishing of the
new wing of Queen Victoria Hospital, Mrs.
Norman Brookes, the president, led off with
a game of bridge at her holiday home at
Frankston at the week-end. The folk who
visited Cliff House for the occasion included
the Gullett and Tallis ladies, Mrs. Stuart
Murray, Mrs. 11. Grimwadc and Mrs. Harry
Emmerton. The weather was on its best
behavior, and afternoon-tea was spread in
the garden. The hostess’s three daughters,
aided by Marie de Bavay, Betty Lawrence
and Mrs. David Syme, dispensed the brew.
The Semco needlework competition has
attracted this year 8000 entries, which came
from all over the Commonwealth and Maori-
land, with contributions from as far afield
as Egypt and Samoa. The standard of the
work is high, and the judges had a difficult
task. Olive Garden, of Castlemaine, won
a championship prize of £22 for a white linen
supper-cloth adorned with eyelet, Swiss and
Richelieu embroidery, a wonderful example
of perfect stitchery. The championship in
the colored embroidery group went to Mrs.
J- B. Smith, of Woodville, South Australia,
whose design, brown gumnuts on a back-
ground of goblin blue, bordering a table
centre of old bleached linen, has all the
fulness and richness of a good oil painting.
Olive Garden also won a first prize in this
section with a cloth scattered with nastur-
tiums. Mrs. F. Page, of Newcastle, scored
with rosy poppies on a black background;
and Mrs. Philip Page, also of Newcastle,
is a winner with a cloth that is trailed with
blue convolvulus. Some superfine tatting iV
shown by Miss A. Shaw, of Clayfield, Bris-
bane, whose table mat has an intricate design
like Irish crochet. Full points were gained
by Miss E. Gledhill, of Bendigo, with an
lnsh crochet tea-cosy; and Mrs. F. Noake.
of Camberwell, is second with an original
set of dress extras. She lias fashioned in
lush crochet in two tones of linen and
mastic a dinky little hat, wallet, belt, gloves,
a necklace. and a bracelet, amber beads
being used in the jewellery. In the juvenile
section (under 18), Mavis Christmas, of
Launceston, i s winner with a cleverly-em-
bioidered apron ; and her sister Nancy scores
in the “under-16” group. Joan Choate, of
loowoqmba (Q.), who is under 11, is a
prizewinner. The silver cup for the greatest
number of awards scored by oile school is
secured by St. Mary’s, Sunbury. Every
entry sent in from this seminary got a prize
of some description.
nr The ™P e ? tj £ Hospital Auxiliary, of which
(Vrl'l n J ‘i Tuckfiel(J is president and Mrs.
V^ 11 Hell lion, sec., entertained Mrs. Wil-
fred Terrell, a visitor from the U.S A at
a tea gathering in the Botanical Gardens.
Mrs. Terrell is here with her husband. Dr.
lerrell, who practises dentistry in Cali-
tornia and who is giving lectures on tile
subject at the Upi.
Zinnias, which but a few years ago were
the most despised of blooms, have been
developed to such an extent that they are now
front-rank favorites. They were the blossoms
chosen for the bouquets of the attendant
maids when Elizabeth, second daughter of
the A. J. Staughtons, of Terang, married
John, third son of the late G. F Larritt
and of Mrs Larritt, of South Yarra. The
flowers made a radiance of orange and
autumn tones against the amber tulle frocks
of Prudence and Judith Staughton, Peggy
Essmgton King and Betty Trenchard. Russet-
hued_ strawberry leaves were mingled with
zinnias m their wreaths. Gorgeous satin,
Limerick lace, mellowed to a deep ivory tint
with age, and a Brussels lace veil of vener-
able antiquity graced the pretty bride, whose
bouquet and wreath were of frangipanni.
Christ Church, South Yarra, was a bower of
flowers chiefly white, for the knot-tying.
Many Western District folk were present at
the after-rejoicings at No. 9.
The Methodist Church, Canterbury, was
decked in white and gold for the knot-tying
of Gwendolyn, elder daughter of the S. A.
Cheneys, of Croydon, and Trevor, elder son
of Dr. and Mrs. Basil Kilvington. of Copnin
Grove, Hawthorn. Mrs. Orwell Gepp was
matron of honor, and she and the two ’maids
wore cool-looking ninon gowns patterned in
white, green and yellow, topped with
swathed toques of pale green. The bride’s
chalk-white draperies of flat crepe were
mingled with lace over which a tulle veil
rippled down from a circlet of orange buds.
Canon Sutton, assisted by the Rev. A. J.
\Vhyte, welded the bonds between the
Canon’s youngest daughter, Audrey, and
e, rM Ic — Nevill Pullen, of DevonpOrt (Tas.),
at trinity Church, Kew. Handed over by
her brother, the Rev. E. Sutton, the bride
said I will” in a long-sleeved gown of deep
ivory-toned angel-skin lace, and carried a
large shower bouquet of frangipanni, her
tulle veil being affixed to a wreath of hand-
made silken blossoms. AilSa Black, of Devon-
port, came across the Strait to join as
attendants Mrs. P. M. Buchanan, matron-
of-honor, and Dorothy Coltman, all in lace
of jade-green hue, with toques of the same
shade. Congratulations to the newly-weds
were ottered at a tea party at the Vicarage.
There is to be another wedding shortly in
the family of knight Robert Best. Margot, the
eldest daughter, is to wed Clive, only son of
Mr and Mrs. J. E. Stott, of Glenelg (S.A.),
early in April.
It was stated at the annual recording of
the Red Cross Society that there are 16,000
soldiers in military hospitals in Australia,
1000 of these being cot cases. The Acting
Prime Minister, J. G. Latham, the chairman
of the executive, O. Morrice Williams, and
Lud Mayor Smith.wefe among the speakers,
and the Isaacs lady presided. Afterwards
her Ex. invited all present to partake of
afternoon , tea.
At a reception to the Rev. Dorothy Wilson
at the Independent Church Hall, Mrs.
Peter Tait, president of the Congregational
Women’s Association, gave greeting with
flowers to the visitor, who was attired in
dark brown georgette and lace with a large
hat. Mrs. I. H. Moss voiced a welcome from
the members of the N.C.W. During lulls in
the chatter there was singing by Beatrice
Oakley and Jean Brunton.
This is Matron Ina Laidlaw, who, since
the orthopaedic
branch of the
C h i 1 d r e n’s
Hospital was
opened at
If r a n k s t on
three or
four years ago,
has been in
charge of the
up-to-date in-«
stitutjon. A
trainee of the
Children’s Hos-
pital, where
she was sub-
inatron prior
to going to
Ifr a n k s t o n,
Miss Laidlaw
hails from
Hamilton, in
the Western
District. She
had two years’ war service in India.
While halting in Melbourne on their way
to Sydney after a long sojourn in England,
architect John Nesbit and his wife were
guests of the Lucius Conollys at their South
Yarra home. At a tea party many former
friends renewed acquaintance with Mrs.
Nesbit, who was Joan Devereux of this city.
Many people in Melbourne must have won-
dered why in the centre of the beautifully-
laid-out gardens and domain of St. Kilda
and Domain roads there should be 20 acres
of uncultivated paddock. At last the re-
clamation of this wilderness has been de-
cided upon. It is intended to form it into
a park in which flowering gums will be the
leading feature. The city council is hopeful
of beginning the transformation shortly, and
the job will mop up some of the unemployed.
Councillor H. Wootton, the leading spirit in
this movement, has visions of Melbourne
having in the near future an area that will
rival London’s Bushy Park.
Memories of the days of Brough and
Boucicault were revived w r hen the Athene
Seyler-Nicholas Hannen Co. gave its open-
ing show at the King’s on Saturday night.
Seldom has this Page mingled with an
audience that left the theatre in such a
mood of unanimous approval. “The Bread-
winner” has but one setting—a drawing-room
with chairs and settee in loose covers of
primrose-hued cretonne, patterned in rosy
poppies and purple blossoms. The walls
are grey-green, the curtains are vivid green
velvet, and the carpets are green and black.
There is also but one lot of dressing. Athene
Seyler wears a flat crepe gown of beige
shade with bands of rose-red let in round
the shoulders, matching her velvet hat. An
elegantly cut dress of royal purple georgette
fashioned with a coatee is sported by Mar-
gery Caldicott, who adds a little black toque-
cap. A tennis get-up is aired by Charlotte
Francis—white silk with a short fitting pale-
green coat, fastened up the front with closely
arranged tiny white buttons. Ilermion’e
Hannen choses a pale-pink linen for her
sports wear. In a house that wasn’t quite
full were Mrs. A. Staughton, of Terang, and
her daughter Prudence; Mr. and Mrs. Colin
Fraser, she in a tippet of ermine that caused
gasps of. envy; Mrs. Felix Lloyd in a short
tight-fitting coat of white satin : the Robert
Rests and daughter Helene; the Percy Black-
bourn couple; Mrs. A. V. Kewney; Mr. and
Mrs. P. Glass; Dr. and Mrs. Leon Jona;
Mr. and Mrs. Cherniavsky, and Mrs. AY. H.
Merry.
The A B. Chirnsides are homeward bound,
and will be welcomed back at a dance to be
given by the Aubrey Gibsons early in March.
During the Chirnsides’ tour abroad their
small daughter has been staying with her
grandmother, Mrs. F. Andrew, in Melbourne.
Here is a recent Broothom picture of
Mrs. Linton, wife of our new Agent-General.
The appoint-
me n t is a
popular one
and the lady
has been inun-
dated with con-
gr at ulatory
messages. She
is, like her
husb an d, a
Maorilander, a
daughter of
the late Rob-
ert Bannister,
one-time pro-
prietor of the
now-e xtinct
New Z e a-
land “Times.”
She is a vice-
president of
the Women’s
Hospital, is on
the committee
of the District
Nursing and After-care Association, and is
an active worker for the Children’s Hospital.
Also she is patroness of the Women’s Wel-
fare Committee of the Big Brother move-
ment. . The two boys, Bob, who is studying
medicine, and Dick, who is at Geelong Col-
lege, will complete their education in Britain.
The blind boy, Neil Westh, who achieved
such outstanding success in the leaving-cer-
tificate exam., has been awarded by the Uni.
one of its 53 free scholarships, and can
now carry out his intention of studying for
an Arts degree as preparation for a post on
the teaching staff of the R.V.1.8.
A gap in the ranks of our doctors has been
caused by the passing of Dr. Hilda Rennie,
who until a few months ago was in the Bac-
teriological Department of the Uni., where
she was assistant to the late Dr. R. J. Bull.
When Dr. Bull was away from Victoria, she
had charge, acting as lecturer as well as
demonstrator. On the death of Dr. Bull
she was offered full control, but ill-health
obliged her to refuse the responsibility.
When she was a fourth-year medical stu-
dent she married Dr. George Rennie, a
Collins-street surgeon, and when he died
about 12 years afterwards she continued her
studies and gained her degree. She was the
daughter of a former inspector of State
schools.
Lieut.-Surgeon 11. J. Bennett and his bride
sailed for England in the Ormonde, the
wedding taking place on the day of depar-
ture. Mrs. Bennett is Edna, youngest daugh-
ter of the Henry Fawcetts, of Caulfield. Dr.
Bennett is eldest son of the late Maxwell
Bennett and of Mrs. Bennett, of Aspendale.
Adelaide amenities:—
Mrs. Harry Gilbert and her young- people are
back at Lefevre-terrace, North Adelaide, after a
vacation at Grange. Mrs. George Brookman, with
daughters Phyllis and Sybil, has returned from a
holiday in Tasmania, to Barton-terrace, North
Adelaide. Mrs. Stanley Murray and daughters Alison
and Joan are back at Tusmore, after a month at
Victor Harbor. Mr. and Mrs. Roy Thomas have
returned from Victoria.
Mr. T. W. Eyre, formerly 0 f Mauritius, but now
of England, arrived by the Mongolia on a visit
to Adelaide. The late Mrs. Eyre was Edith
Holbrook, of Adelaide, who died at Mauritius some
years ago. On the same boat were Mr. and Mrs.
Donald Nicholson; the latter before her marriage
■Mis Miss D. M. Adey, of this State—she
met and married her husband in London. Mr.
Nicholson, who was featured in London musical
comedy as Donald Richardson, is going to take up
stage work in Melbourne.
Tattersall s Racing Club had typical summer
weather for its meeting a.t Morphetville, where
white sport frocks and wide-brimmed white straw
hats were much in evidence. Chairman Flannagan
and his wife presided at afternoon tea, the lady in
a white and navy patterned georgette and a navy
straw hat. Her two daughters, Eileen Flannagan
and Mrs. Eugene McLaughlin, both favored white
and black; one wore striped crgpe de Chine and
the other a figured chiffon. The Moulden lady’s
black crepe de Chine was patterned with white, and
her wide-brimmed black tagel straw hat was
banded with white leaves.
A dinner party for 24 of the younger set, followed
by a dance at the Maison de Danse, Glenelg, was
arranged by Mr. and Mrs. R. F. Harry, 0 f Robe-
terrace, Medindie, to celebrate the twenty-first birth-
day of their elder daughter, Mary. The dinner
was at the Oriental Hotel; later the party motored
down to Glenelg.
On Wednesday evening a cafe chantant was held
in the garden at Orange Grove, Hatton Gardens,
the residence of Mr. and Mrs. W. Langdon Parsons,
in aid of the funds of the Junior Red Cross. Cynthia
Parsons and Flo S'egar carried out the duties of
secretaries. Among the attractions were ballets by-
Mrs, Lesley Bowman’s pupils. Mostyn Skinner
sang. Clem Dawe, with several of the Theatre
Royal vaudeville artists, came on to Golden Grove
at the conclusion of their show and there was •
dancing on the wide balcony.
From beside the Swan :
Senator Kingsmill and his lady were made much
of by the executive committee of the Childrens’
Protection Society. The welcome was in thei McNess
Hall, where the president, Rabbi Freedman, spoke
with his usual felicity and wit. The secretary,
Mrs. Gover, scattered introductions in black satin
and lace. The Kingsmill lady wore eau-de-Nil
ninon with a dusting of pink blossoms. David Lyle,
Thelma Neil, Horace Dean and Edward Black
provided music and Miss Maegregor recited.
News comes from the Fog of the marriage of
Gwendolyn, youngest daughter of the Rev. and
Mrs. Bray, to Erie Warr, M.A., Mus. Bac. The
lively Gwen, one of Perth’s! most brilliant musicians,
has made her mark as a pianist and conductor. She
has been studying in the Cold Land.
P.L.C.’s principal, Miss J. N. Phemister, is back
in her job after a visit to her native Scotland. The
returned traveller is keen on domestic science; she
says the subject, has a much higher standing on
the curriculum of Scottish schoolgirls than it has
for their Australian sisters.
The Eugene Levinson couple and Mrs. Nairn, of
Mount-street, boarded the outward bound Moldavia
for a trip to Ceylon.
Hilda Drabble, of Nedlands, and Harley Powell
have announced their intention of embarking upon
a life-partnership. Miss Drabble spent the last year
teaching in Orange (N.S.W.). *
Irene Dean Williams has adopted aviation as
her career, fjhe has the coveted “B” license, and
is the only wbman ’planeowner in the State.
Tasmanian talk:—
The commodore and officers of the Royal Yacht
Club issued invitations for a ball to raise the wind
for Tassie III —she is to compete in the Forster Cup
races on the mainland. The shivoo was held at the
Continental and in the club’s - beflagged rooms.
Commodore and Mrs. Evans entertained a big official
party, including the Claude Coopers, Lt.-Col. and '
Mrs. McColl, Major and Mrs. Williams, Mr. and Mrs.
Yates, Miss Williams, Mr. and Mrs. Dudley Smith,
Mr. and Mrs. J. Boyes, Dr. H. N. and Miss B.
Butler, the Weller Arnolds, Miss Arnold and Mr. G.
Bayly. The John Brownlees and Rita Miller came
along after their concert.
Forty-five society matrons ran a most successful
ball at the Continental, when 14 debs, made their
bow to the Lieut.-Gov. The young butterflies who
emerged from the chrysalis stage were Pat Butler,
Joan Chandler, Bessie Crisp, Hetty Crisp, Hazel
Crase (Sydney), Dinah Gatehouse, Norah James, Jean
Maxwell, Norah Scott-Power, Peggy McGrath, Pat
Foote (Launceston) and Elizabeth Mills (Longford).
The rooms were hung with Asiatic shawls, and great
masses of gladioli and agapanthus in bowls made
gay splashes of color. The Lieut.-Gov.’s lady sported
green, and waved a big feather fan. Mrs. Dalglish,
the Admiral’s wife, was in black lace with a large
scarlet flower on the shoulder. The debs, mostly
favored the popular ice-white flat crepes.
A smart dance was given by Mrs. Thos. Hungerford
for her niece, Ailsa Cullen (Sydney). The
pretty drawing-room at Hathaway House was cleared
for dancing; doorways and long French windows
were outlined with masses of blue, mauve, pink and
purple blossoms. The electric lights were shaded
by umbrella-like frames of wire entirely covered by
fuchsias in every shade and variety. The hostess
wore a graceful garment of black silk lace with
a short coatee of black and gold gauze and georgette.
About 70 young folk danced. Supper was set in a
marquee on the lawn; the towering English trees
and the lovely garden were lit by strings of colored
lights. Many naval officers and their wives were
among the guests.
The Frank Gavan Duffys, with their son, Father
Guy Davan Duffy, are holidaying in the S’peck,
making Hadley’s their headquarters in Hobart.
Mrs. McAulay and Ida MeAulay are home
again after their respective visits to Sydney and
the Old Country.
Mrs. James Forrest is back in the Speck on a
visit to her mother, Mrs. Geo Gragg, Launceston.
Mrs. Forrest’s home is in Rangoon.
The “Back to Latrobe” week brought old residents
from various parts of the mainland and all quarters
of the island to the pretty little north-western town,
where there was a public welcome to all-comers, a
concert, a ball and a school celebration.
The Gladioli Show in the City Hall seemed no
less beautiful than in former years, but growers
complained that the wet season had been bad for
them.


Special
Excursions
CANADA
and
USA
# •
# •
9 •
• •
9 •
• 9
9 9
» •
* •
• •
VANCOUVER
San Francisco
Sydney
FIRST CLASS X?QQ
RETURN
CABIN CLASS JCHC\
RETURN dLIW
Usual fares £125/10/- and £B7 respectively.
SYDNEY TO VANCOUVER —
Via Auckland (N.Z.),
Honolulu.
Suva (Fiji) and
SYDNEY TO SAN FRANCISCO —
Via Wellington (N.Z.), Rarotonga
Papeete (Tahiti).
and
Full particulars from
Stop-overs at any port of call
can be arranged.
Passengers may return by th«
alternate route.
The trip allows a two months'
stay in either Canada ot
U.S.A.
No Exchange Charges.
and Union Line
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
The Expert
View
CIK li.Z. Referee
THE NATIONAL SPORTING
WEEKLY.
The week’s activities in Racing,
Trotting, Horse Breeding, Boxing,
Wrestling,' Rugby, Soccer, League,
Coursing and Whippet Racing are
reviewed in each issue by expert
writers.
Exclusive features in the Referee
are a National Kennel section, a
Sportsman’s Radio Log giving the
week’s Sports Schedule on the air,
and the Racing and Trotting Guide
to Form.
Year in and year out the
“Referee” leads the way in
Racing and Trotting Selections.
Prove it for yourself.
Australian Representative:
w. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Phone: 85241.
Head Office:
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Special Announcement
to National Advertisers
the mercury
Tasmania’s National Daily Newspaper
Published in Hobart, the Capital City
of the State, is the only Tasmanian
publication which has issued an
Audited Circulation Certificate
in accordance with the formula
adopted by the Australian Newspaper
Conference and the Australian Associ-
ation of National Advertisers.
This certificate may now be inspected
by those interested, at the offices o
the Secretary of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers,
1 9 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and also
at the following:—■
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: “MERCURY,” Hobart.
evmvW OFFICE: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar
House 30 Carrington Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W5179.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus” Building,
Elizabeth Street.
The Third Mate
BY JAMES E. BESALES.
I WAS second mate of the Gason, at Bom-
bay, when I received a letter from Phil
Conway, chief officer of the losis. lie
had written from ’Frisco to say he would be
at Young and Jackson’s, Melbourne, any
day between the 20th and 27th July. I was
delighted. My packet was due at Williams-
town on July 22, I hadn’t seen Phil for two
years and he is my greatest friend.
After leaving Bombay the Gason slugged
along at a miserable nine knots, with noth-
ing in hand to offset the breakdown which
our hoary-headed pig-iron polisher-in-chief
promised. But she didn’t; and we dropped
our pick in the bay on schedule;
A •little before noon I entered Young and
Jackson’s saloon bar, and my gaze rested
upon two men at the far end. W itliout hesi-
tation I recognised the broad back and
mauled ear of one. Phil Conway ! I would
know his mauled ear anywhere. My first
impulse was to go over and slap his back;
but I thought perhaps I’d better not. Phil
was with his skipper. The Old Man didn’t
know me, but I knew him—a stickler for
“fitness of things,” one who didn’t place too
much importance on second mates.
Deciding, therefore, to wait until Phil was
free, I seated myself directly behind him and
concentrated upon my newspaper. Then I
heard his skipper say:
“Pre-natal influence ? Bunk ! I don t
believe such rot.”
“I do, sir,” Phil replied firmly.
“Hull!” The skipper’s grunt of disbelief
was eloquent.
Then Phil unfolded, a story.
It happened when he was mate of the
Centurion. Before sailing from Melbourne to
Capetown, they signed-on a third mate just
free from apprenticeship. He had served-his
time on the Worcester, the English training-
ship for- merchant service officers, and had
not had any real deep-sea service. U'nfor-
'tunate'ly j the skipper—“ Cabin Jack’-he was
called, on account of a predilection for his
cabin and booze —had young Carson “set”
before Port Phillip Heads were far astern.
He harried him so much that Phil took more
interest than a chief mate usually does in a
youngster; but it was owing to what trans-
pired one night during eight-to-twelve watch
that Phil took Carson really under his wing.
As you know, the master is responsible
officer for the “commodore” watch, but the
Centurion’s Old Man was always too soused
to take a look round, and during eight-to-
twelve left ship, bridge and safe navigation
to the elements and,-tlic kid third mate. The
Centurion was two days off the African coast
and feeling the force of Cape rollers coming
inboard with a roar and surge that should
have brought the Old Man from his cabin in
double time. Still, the weather wasn’t so bad
that Phil needed to have gone to the bridge
during his watch below.
The Centurion was a wallowing, blunt-
nosed open-deck tramp carrying no shelter on
her bridge except port and starboard canvas
dodgers, with a timber and glass wheelhouse
amidships. She was a miserable tub alto-
gether, and Phil cursed owners who saw fit
to transfer him from a comfortable liome-
a\yay-from-home packet to this floundering
hulk. My opinion is the owners weren’t too
sure of Cabin Jack.
Climbing to the bridge, Phil groped Ins
way into .the lee of the" windward dodger,
and in the darkness bumped into young
Carson. He apologised, referred to the dirti-
ness of the night, then added that the ship
would ride more easily if she was shifted
a point into the wind. The kid started to
speak, but something in his voice resembled
a woman’s sob. Swiftly Phil pulled a torch
from his pocket and flashed it on Carson.
The third mate,' white with fear, was crying!
It’s happened before —and will again.
Carson had lost his nerve. In no unmistak-
able language Phil ordered him to Ins cabin
and said he would report the incident to the
Old Man. , , ((T
“Give me a chance,” Carson pleaded. _ 1
can’t help it. Fear of tempestuous sea is in
my blood. My mother”
Carson had Phil close-hauled. Stygian
darkness, wind howling half a gale, water
thundering aboard, Carson in a blue funk, yet
pleading for a chance to continue his purga-
tory. , . ,
“If the skipper had come here instead
of me,Phil snapped, “you .would have been
broken for all time, my lad.’
“I know —I know! But give me a chance,
please,” he begged again. “My mother”
What that fear-crazed kid told Phil con-
vinced him Carson was cursed by pre-natal
influence. His dad had commanded Western
Ocean greyhounds until he run his last
floating pajace on to the Land’s End rocks.
There had been plenty of room in the boats,
but he wouldn’t leave his vessel, and when
she slipped back into deep water he went with
her. This happened some months before
young 1 Carson was born. In the sea his
mother saw a ruthless monster robbing her
of husband, home and happiness, and during
the months of waiting for her child she
brooded over her loss. As the youngster grew
to boyhood he was drawn two ways. His
father’s love of the sea was in his veins ; but
winter storms shaking his Cornish home,
thrashing beaches and rocks under boiling
fury made him cower beneath his heritage
of fear. The mother realised her boy’s tor-
mented mind. She crooned over him and
continually promised that one day God
would show her a way to remove his fear.
Whether Carson’s grandfather knew of the
boy’s malady or not is doubtful, but at any
rate he finally apprenticed the kid to the
WJorcester. From then on the mother lost
grip on life, slipping away as a pebble to
the ocean bed. , ~
Now on that leaky, spume-swept bridge,
the kid third mate won over Phil Conway.
Phil promised to help the youngster wm
through Carson’s faith in Ins mother was
unbounded. He just had to hang on, he said,
until the occasion came.
From the time the Centurion made Table
Bav discharged and reloaded for Melbourne,
she steamed more than half-way to her home
port without experiencing any worseweather
than a deep easting swell. Her Old Man
followed bG usual habits: borzng. . coming
to the bridge before noon each day, making
a pretence of taking a sight, disputing his
mates’ findings, striking an average from their
results, then entering it into the log as the
Centurion’s true position. That would be
the last seen of him until next day.
One afternoon when Phil relieved the
second mate he sighted a smudge on the hori-
zon. Believing it to be a vessel, he ordered
the helmsman to bring the Centurion over a
couple of points. After half an hour s
steaming he realised the object had not
materially altered its position, and within
another half-hour was peering at what
appeared to be a derelict freighter, sogging
in the swell and well down to her Plimsoll.
By this time all hands were gazing over the
rail, and excited voices rose to the bridge.
Phil became excited, too. Salvage! Like an
eager schoolboy he revelled in dreams. Lhen
commonscnse prevailed —he must report to
the Old Man.
The Centurion was now within easy hail-
ing distance, and on her bow Phil read
Orion. Ordering the helmsman to maintain
the distance and circle the derelict, he hur-
ried to the skipper’s cabin. A drunken snore
greeted him ; but after some effort lie awak-
ened the Old Man and explained the situation.
“Abandoned freighter be damned!” he
snarled. “Get on your course.”
“There may be life on board, 1 hil
demurred. , , ,
The Old Man goggled and cursed, but he
couldn’t afford to. openly,quarrel.
; “A lot of nonsense,” he fumed, and
, lurched on to the deck.
After a minute’s bleary stare he licked his
drooling lips ; a greedy light dawned in Ins
eyes. Possibly he visualised, with his share
of the prize money, a speedy, Avay to drink
, himself to death.
“Get a, boat away, Mister Mate, he hic-
■ cupped. “If she’s abandoned, fix up tow-
lines.”
In less than, two minutes a lifeboat was
riding the swell toward ythe j Orion.
The climb aboard offered no difficulties,
for the derelict’s falls were hanging close to
the water. Her boats were gone. Followed
by two of his boat’s crew, Phil clambered to
her deck. The Orion presented a sea mys-
tery that Phil could not solve. That would
be the underwriters’ job—when they got her
to Melbourne. Her decks were spick-and-
span and presented no signs of hurried
departure by her crew, yet the search dis-
covered no life at all. Not even a cat.
Phil left two seamen behind to prepare
the fo’c’sle head for towing gear, then
returned to the Centurion. It was going, to
• be a ticklish job for a tub like, the Centurion
to tow the heavily laden freighter, and he
expected to remain on the Orion until they
reached Melbourne. But the Old Man had
other plans. “Carson will-go to the Orion, ’
he said. “You and the second mate will do
sixers. I’ll nurse the towlines from our
stern.”
Phil saw through the move. If he went to
the Orion the Old Man would be compelled
to keep a watch. But if he sent Carson —
why, then, Phil and the second mate, two
. responsible officers, could do six-hour watches
while the Old Man kept up his booze and
shared in the prize money for doing nothing.
Personally, Phil was too excited and
pleased to what the Old Man arranged,
. but he was concerned for young Carson and
what might happen if the unfortunate lad
was left to nurse straining lines on the
Orion’s fo’c’sle head in heavy weather. The
bridge is bad enough, but a plunging fo’c sle
head washed by smothering green seas would
drive Carson frantic. Phil said to him :
“It’s going to be a trying job. But keep
a grip on vourself. I won’t let you down.”
During the next few days the weather in-
creased from fresh 'to boisterous. Then the
glass dropped with a rush. Within an hour
the. Centurion was in a howling inferno of
wind, water arid crazy motion —one second
atop of white-crested mountains, the next
lurching into sickening hollows. ,
Phil ordered reduced speed. Much of this
weather, and towlines would snap like
carrots.
Through the night, sea and wind rose to
greater fury; and the elements were beating
the crew’s frantic efforts to conserve the
‘ cables. More and more had to be paid out until
but a few fathoms remained on the. deck.
Hope of getting the derelict to Melbourne
was vanishing.
Fury against the Old Man —fury equal
almost to that of the elements—seized Phil
Conway. He knew the drunken swrine could
have prevented their predicament had he
stood by the lines and nursed the paying-
out ; but, owing to sheer lack of supervision,
much cable had been wasted.
At break of dawn Phil strained through
his glasses to discover how the reeling Orion
was behaving. She was taking green seas
over her fo’c’sle head, and he believed that
no one could possibly remain in so unshel-
tered a position. Turning his glasses to her
bridge, he counted the four seamen who had
remained with the young third mate on the
Orion. What had happened to Carson?
The freighter’s bows rose to a cresting
wave. Her fo’c’sle head shook free of
streaming water, and Phil Conway gazed in-
credulously.*' Carson had lashed himself- to
the capstan, and with arms free was striving
to keep the towlines from fouling!
In the widening dawn Phil saw the young-
ster’s face, and if ever man had fear of death
graven upon his features it was that poor
fellow. Yet, in fear of death himself, lashed
and half-drowned, fighting a tormenting
demon within him,' he had ordered the men
to the bridge and safety !
Cold rage mastered Conway. Discipline,
traditions, training of years fell from him.
He rushed to the master’s cabin, dragged
him from the settee and his drunken stupor,
thrust him along the reeling deck to the
plunging poop, and into the presence of the
sea-drenched crew. There, “Work, you
loafing sot!” he roared. “If you lose a foot
of cable, I’ll heave you over the side, Good
men are risking their, lives.”
The Old Man stood for a moment shaken by
, the unexpected, action, then sprang and
grasped a 'tomahawk lying beside the com-
plaining cables.
“You mutinous !” he screamed. “I’ll
brain you!”
He swung the tomahawk and Phil fell to
the deck with a lacerated ear; the bo’sun’s
shove saved him from being killed outright.
Scrambling shakily to his feet he grasped
the demented skipper, but was too late to
save one of the cables, for the Old Man
severed it with the tomahawk.
“Quick!” Phil thrust him into the bo’sun’s
arms. “Lock him up, and keep a man on
guard.” Then he dashed to the bridge.
He had to keep that cable slack until
Carson and four seamen were brought to
safety. To salve the Orion appeared now to
be quite out of the question. The Cen-
turion didn’t boast another rope much thicker
than a leadline, and, if she had, it would
have been impossible, with such a sea run-
ning, to get it aboard the derelict.
Phil steamed the Centurion into the wind
and played to the antics of the helpless
Orion, which was heeling and slouching to
mountainous seas. His heart ached for
Carson. If ever that lad'needed his mother's
prayer to come true,'now . was the time.
With his glasses Phil scanned the Orion’s
fo’c’sle head. Carson was mot there ! “Poor
kid. Washed over the- side !’’ He turned
his glasses to the -bridge. Five heads were
showing above the windscreen, and one was
Carson’s. He was signalling, too rapidly
for calmness. He said he was going to try
to swim with a leadline to the Centurion.
If he succeeded, we could haul one of the
Orion’s cables aboard —to continue the tow !
Phil could come to only one conclusion.
The ordeal on the Orion’s fo’c’sle head had
been too much for poor Carson —none but a
madman would contemplate a plunge into
such a sea. ~ , ,
“I absolutely forbid it,” he signalled back.
“You will remain where you are.”
Carson ignored the command. “I must
come. Give what lee you can. I’m starting
in ten minutes.”
Phil was powerless to prevent him. He
could only aid Carson by getting in close to
the Orion’s lee side. Coming down the wind
Carson might be able to make the distance;
but if one monstrous surge carried him
against the Centurion’s plunging iron beam,
nothing but a miracle could save him from
death. ,
Phil himself tricked the Centurion s
wheel, and brought her to position ; and while
he did so the sweating crew fought and
clawed at the slacking towline and drew it
inboard, for at that stage a fouled propeller
might be the cause of crashing them into
the floundering Orion.
Then all was set. Carson plunged and
was carried clear on a swelling wave. A
leadline was fixed high to his shoulders ; sea-
men on the derelict paid-out or hauled-in
line as he rode high tumbling waters or
sank into abysmal hollows. It was a cross,
riotous sea. The swimmer was drawn this
way and that. Yet perceptibly he drew
nearer the turbulent water that pounded and
fumed to surmount the Centurion’s reeling
beam.
Phil Conway’s glasses were glued to his
eyes. Great wonder filled liis being, for
Carson’s face was that of a peaceful child.
His eyes were closed and he showed no sign
of fear. He drew nearer and nearer to the
Centurion.
“Stand by to dump oil,” Phil shouted. To
him the Sound seemed scarcely above a
whisper, yet seamen heard and obeyed.
Carson came on indifferent to elements
too strong for the most powerful of men
to combat.
Phil grasped a line made fast to a stan-
chion, tied one end below his shoulders, and
climbed to the Centurion’s rail.
“Let go the oil,” lie cried, and sprang out
and down.
He rose-to the surface beside Carson and
grasped his shoulder. As seamen hauled
upon the line it cut and unmercifully rived
him. Then the sea enfolded them. Phil
Conway felt a sickening crash and knew no
more. .
Days later he awoke in his cabin. Through
the port-hole he could see in the distance
trees and houses, and beside the bunk young
Carson was sitting with bandaged head.
“We got the Orion into Williamstown, Mr.
Conway,” he said, “and we’re right for the
prize money. We had a terrible passage, but
I enjoyed it. I’m free —free! The sea-fear
' has left me.”
“Due to that crack on the head, Phil
told him. „ r ,
Carson’s face lighted. “No, Mr. Conway, it
wasn’t that! Some unknown Power com-
pelled me to make that plunge from the
Orion’s deck. When I rose to the surface
my mother was beside me. She was with
me until you grasped my shoulder. _ I was
w'ithout fear. I have known none since.
* * * *
Phil Conway ceased speaking. Once more
I became conscious of Young and Jacksons
hail-fellow-well-met crowd, and heard Phils
companion clear his throat.
“A good yarn, Conway, he said; but
without! proof.”,
I -couldn’t stand that. Skipper or no
; skipper, I threw my newspaper aside and
> stood before him. . „ ~
“If it’s proof you want, Captain, I said.
“I can give it to you. My name is Carson!”


IP?SPPSiH
im**
lirllllllHH
- M
m nimimtiUHii
H l
s
m
mm ■
ill
iM
■
Hill
'
m
Bis
mm
i-ii'-V
JO
wa mm
4
3
••
3
.
8
ass
CO
- : :
figs
r
SieffifeSaS
,' : V -.' ■
mm iife
1
sia
iH
■s
warn
DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE HOUSE OF McCALLUM:
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., Adelaide.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Fremantle. MACFARLANE BROS. & CO., Hobart.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
J&uLLetCn
Every week since 1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin’’
to its subscribers.
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
TEE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which I enclose &
NAME
ADDRESS
RATES: Australia—l 2 months. 2 4/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 0/' -; 6 months. 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
*
«fN
sV
\\©
lA' 5 '
0
0°
© ol>
-V * s*4^
s S 1


AFTER WORK
...a glass of D.A.
rt«*yvr»i
8*
§
V
\
/
V
V
//
\
jli
h
£
O
V)
UJ
cc
272
' rv\ brewed g, bottled *
rV\rooTH& C?limited
Si >V WAVER LEV J
jLv uoth « c? LIIV
. WAVER LEV /
28
In Half Bottles
and Quart Bottles
It never fails to give you new
energy and vitality when you
feel tired.
Resch’s
i
DINNER ALE
The Popular Appetiser
D.A.3.X.
