

Tke
blend
is
exclusive
to
Cap stans
« S
The Bulletin
c
Vol. 54.—N0. 2805.
Wednesday, November 15, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transm 'sion by Post as a Newspaper.


'T'HE New Library Catalogue for 1933 is
now ready, and will be posted free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
“THE BLOCK,”
424*426 George Street, Sydney.
[Learn
Bandvrltinj
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. ’
Please send, without obligation, pour New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing <u
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 233
1!_ chiinitfic c/oup>
t liat
ki
ii
UflllA
mm*
pro
ftOjCINAL
s -ro'iLe^
If
you are
troubled
with pim-
ples, rashes,
rough or blotchy skin you
owe it to yourself to try
Cutieura Soap. Deli-
cately medicated and gently
emollient, it acts as a pro-
tection to the skin and as a
preventive of skin troubles.
Start using Cutieeira
Soap today and see liow
much it helps.
Price Is.
Australian Depot : R. Towns & Co.
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do not consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age” has exerted an influence In the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser look-
ing for the best INVESTMENT for his adver-
tising expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
110,117.
Rates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 3 Temple Avenue.
TuUute S'&ci&rvce ,
w if&rvd s&xicj, Stajpe.
$■ S&ie&n. TurteJ, rtveeS ft)%
t&e. tfrustt? ZPurC&J. 9 ti
TheAUSTRALASIAN
JON SALE ALL STATES 6?
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test ’ THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit to sell
Cht Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Rhone: 85241.
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere —all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
.combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Thursdays.
Price, 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Lisgar House,
Carrington Street.
Melbourne Office: Newspaper House, Collins
Street.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London should
read the “British Australian and New
Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Australia
and news of Australians in Europe and at
home. Australians are cordially invited to visit
the “British Australian and New Zealander”
Reading-room at the offices, 414-17 Australia
House, Strand, London, W.C.2, where they can
see the home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone and obtain information without
charge. Copies of the paper and general infor-
mation can be obtained at the Australian
Advertising Agency, Ltd., 54a Pitt Street,
Sydney; or 493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
By Far the Largest
Circulation in Queensland .
THE COURIER-MAIL.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 74 Pitt St. ’Phone 85007.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: Newspaper House, Collins
St. ’Phone F 3906.
TkUDir
•BUREAU Of-
Visit
THE AUSTRALIAN
ART EXHIBITION
“The zJldacleod Qallery”
252 Qeorge Street
(Near Bridge Street)
New Pictures by the Best Australian Artists
Admission Free
The Red Page
The Red Page
The Sporting British
It is doubtful if there is a single world-
sport in which the rules and customs
adhered to by the leading exponents are
not of British origin. Coaching pictures
of the first half of the eighteenth century
show four-in-hand drivers with the first
fingers of their left hands dividing the
lead- and the second fingers the wheel-
reins, and with the thongs of their whips
caught up; and celebrated whips may
be seen driving in this manner in Paris,
New York and elsewhere, as well as in
London, to this day. I is the right,
meaning the most efficient ityle ; as was
the old English boxing sly .e of Tunney,
Peter Jackson, Jack Johnson, Les Darcy
and other artists of the ring. The IJ.S.A.
may produce many of the world’s best
golfers, tennis-players and so on, but
every basic convention of these and a
dozen other sports and pastimes comes
from Britain. There are still a few sports
at which the British excel. Cross-country
riding is one. The French have been
turning out first-class steeplechase
jockeys, professional and amateur, for
25 years, and the standard of military
horsemanship is probably higher in Italy,
year in, year out, than it is in Englarjd ;
but no country, with the possible excep-
tion of Ireland, can boast so many good-
to-middling horsemen relatively to popu-
lation as England, and in no country is
the rigor of the riding game insisted on
with such firmness.
Visitors from overseas, and particu-
larly Americans, sometimes scoff at the
rigid field discipline of famous English
and Irish packs, just as some Diggers
scoffed at the discipline of the Guards in
the early days of the war ; but such con-
ventions have their points. The laws
which everybody has to observe in
British hunting-fields make for comfort
and safety, and they are largely respon-
sible for the fact that foreigners have
been journeying to England and Ireland
to hunt for generations. It is the same
with field shooting. Here are some books
which help to explain why the British
have been the world’s mentors in certain
branches of sport for so long.
Crack Game Shots
Colonel Carey, author of My Gun and
I (Philip Allan; 12s. 6d.), was one of
England’s best shots a few years before
the war. Some remarks about his friend
the late Lord Ripon (better known as
Lord de Grey) indicate the degree of skill
attained by some Englishmen in this
branch of sport. Lord Ripon shot at
driven birds with three guns and two
loaders. He used No. 5 for everything,
and his guns had a heavy choke in both
barrels.
Invariably his birds were shot in the head or
neck.... Over and over again he used to kill
five birds with his three guns, and fairly often
he got six.
The hardest bird in the world to kill
is probably a pheasant flying high and
down a strong wind; the writer has seen
a brilliant Sydney pigeon-shot fail to
stop half a dozen in succession, though he
knocked feathers out of all of them. Lord
Ripon often had three pheasants dead in
the air at the same time ; it took him 10
seconds on an average to fire his six
cartridges. Natural aptitude was largely
responsible, of course, but he added to
his effectiveness by constantly practising
with his loaders and blank cartridges,
and by keeping in hard training during
the shooting season.
Humanitarians can never understand
the attitude of blood-sportsmen towards
animals. Colonel Carey loves domestic
animals (“I would sooner be in Hell
with dogs than in Heaven without,” he
observes at the end of one chapter), and
his bitterest scorn is heaped on those
who give wild animals unnecessary pain
(he got his ears boxed and was sent home
as a boy for wounding a rabbit, and he
has never hit one behind since); yet he
has slaughtered all kinds of living
creatures in thousands. He even shot
partridges near the front line in France,
using the men of
one of his pla-
toons as beaters,
and he had a dead
partridge in his
pocket on the day
he was wounded.
An Old-timer
H. Atwood Clark, author of Those
Were the Days! (Philip Allan ; 12s. 6d.),
represents a different type and genera-
tion. He never concentrated on any one
country sport, but engaged in them all —
hunting, fishing and shooting—when he
got a chance ; and on blank days he was
just as pleased to watch birds, beasts and
fish instead of killing them. Like all
hunters he has a paradoxical love for
the creatures he hunts, and a passionate
admiration for their beauty, courage and
devotion to their young. His sporting
career began 60 years ago, and, as the
title of his book implies, he is laudator
temporis acti. He doesn’t think modern
youngsters are as well drilled in “the
etiquette of sport” (meaning the safety
laws) as they were in his time.
Hard and fast rules were laid down and
rigorously enforced: Cartridges out whenever
obstructions had to be crossed; whether it was
loaded or not, the muzzle of the gun must
never point towards a human being or a
domestic animal; no trigger must be pulled until
it was certain that there was a fairway to the
extreme range of the shot.
That he is unjust to the instructors of
the present generation is shown by the
fact that shooting accidents are rare
nowadays. Ninety per cent, of these
catastrophes, from the ones that happen
when people climb fences with guns off
the “safe,” to the domestic tragedies
caused by those who “didn’t know it was
loaded,” have always been due to lack
of home discipline.
Hound Lore
Philip Allan and Co. are also the pub-
lishers of John Mills’s old classic The
Life of a Foxhound. There have been
many editions, but none so fine as this
10s. 6d. one with its beautiful line draw-
ings by A. J. W. Burgess, R.I. This is
one of the first books in which animals
were represented as talking and thinking
like human beings. A refreshing fea-
ture is its freedom from the mawkishness
which makes most modern animal books
so painful; and it is packed with infor-
mation of interest and value to hunting-
folk and nature-lovers. Trimbush, a
veteran with six hunting seasons behind
him, does most of the talking for the
benefit of Ringwood, a novice. A dis-
quisition on heredity:
“You see that black-and-tan hound basking
in the sun?”
“Yes.”
“That’s Valentine. Now his father, who was
killed from a kick three years ago, always
trotted to and from kennel just under the
huntsman’s off stirrup, and Valentine does pre-
cisely the same. There’s Graceful, a bitch in
the next court —she invariably is the first home
and the last to covert, and her mother did the
like before her.”
The chapter on rabies is fortunately of
academic interest to Australians; and
so are most of the remarks about kennel
lameness. When the now defunct Sydney
Drag was in its heyday the writer
noticed that, just as our hunters suf-
fered from jarred feet but never from
thrush, so kennel lameness, which was
common, rarely came from rheumatism.
In England and Ireland, according to Mr.
Mills, rheumatism is a constant menace
to kennel-masters ; “the circumstance of
the canine species not throwing off per-
spirable matter through the pores of the
skin being a very powerful reason why
they are so susceptible of rheumatic
affections.” Another reason may be the
difficulty of keeping hounds dry during
an English winter, but experts have
always differed on the subject.
Those Were the Days!, as well as The
Life of a Foxhound, is illustrated by
A. J. W. Burgess, R.I.
RED PAGE.
Books for the Bairns
Now that the Christmas season is
approaching I propose an extension of
the powers of the Federal book censors.
This should take the form of a proclama-
tion debarring adults from writing chil-
dren’s books. By children’s books I mean
books written deliberately and of malice
(or love —which amounts to the same
thing, unfortunately) aforethought for
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


THE SENIOR STORE’
Facts, plainly stated —that is Anthony Horderns' conception of “TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.'
ANTHONY HORDERNS
“The Home of Santa Claus”
OVERFLOWING WITH EVERY VARIETY OF
XMAS TOYS
TO MAKE A MERRY XMAS
Santa Claus arrives on Nov. 16, terminating his long journey of happiness
from Iceland. Come and bring the Kiddies to Santaland at Anthony
Horderns’, Santa’s Sydney Headquarters, and see him among thousands of
toys in his workshop—the kiddies’ paradise.
1
%
\
.' v y
xOB?
a
L..,. M 2,
*'4
v I
Ml /'
\ 1
y/jmm
►fS'W-
U,. ' *
v> J,^ A
V®
k\>
V
<fW
3
CYCLOPS MOTOR CAR
Cyclops Motor Car—the latest model.
All steel throughout, smart and racy.
Length, 38in.; height, 1 sin.; I Oin.
43|6
rubber-tyred disc wheels. Beautifully finished,
lamps and horn complete. Price, each . . 43/6
“PEERLESS” TRICYCLES
Peerless Tricycles, rubber pedals, |in.
rubber-tyred wheels, strong and dur-
able. 14in. front wheel, Bin. back
wheels. Price 23/6
23/6
16in. front wheel, lOin. back wheels.
Price, each 26/6
18in. front wheel, 12in. back wheels.
Price, each 30/-
Cyclops Tricycles, 16in. front wheel.
Price, each 23/6
20in. front wheel. Price 27/6
22in. front wheel. Price 31/6
Cyclops Tricycles, as above, with steel tyres.
Prices 18/9, 21/6, 24/-
TIPPING TRUCK
Peerless Tipping Truck—the tipping
tray is operated by a hand-lever,
and tail board opens automatically.
45 1-
Finished in Red with Blue wheels or vice
versa; Bin. disc wheels. Price 45/-
Also a larger size with 12in. disc wheels.
Price, each 55/-
laf
Dressed Baby Dolls
Dressed Baby Dolls, in Silk
or Organdie dresses
4/9
Inches .... 10 12 14 16
Prices .... 4/9 6/9 10/9 12/9
Inches .... 18 20 22 24
Prices .... 19/622/627/633/6
“PEERLESS” DINKIE
A Sturdy Dinkie, for child-
ren 2 to 4 years; Bin. front
and 6in. back wheels.
10/S
Price 10/3
Similar Dinkies, larger .. 14/-, 16/-
m
Strongly-built Motor Car
Strongly-built Motor Car, finished
in two-tone popular effects; Bin.
disc wheels. Price 28/6
Similar Car, but larger, with llin.
2*16
disc wheels. Price 35/6
Handsome Motor Car, finished in two-tone
lacquer and lined to tone; rubber pedals, 7 dn.
disc wheels. Price 45 /.
Same Car, with chain drive. Price ...... 52/6
Both of these cars have the new pointed style
of radiator.
DOLLY'S
SCRUB SET
SCRUB SET
Girlie’s Scru b b
Set. Price
‘.i 8 2/6
9 m
JUNIOR CARPENTER’S SETS
Carded Tool Sets, all useful tools. FROM
Pieces .... 6 7 9 12 0/
Prices 2/- 3/- 3/6 5/-
asdf
“DAISY” AIR GUNS
The Daisy Air Gun. 1 0/£
Single Shot. Price, 12/6 V
“Peerless” Scooter
The “ Peerless ”
Scooter, built in
heavy steel for hard
work; height, 34in.;
length, 38in. Bin. disc wheels
with fin. rubber tyres.
Price 11/9
Also Scooters in great variety.
Prices 7/6, 9/6, 10/9
Others. Prices .. 12/6, 13/6
m
sdf
“Peerless” Scooter
“Peerless”
Scooter, 12in. disc
roller - bearing
27/6
wheels, fitted with '
stand and drum brake. Heavy
ribbed cushion tyres, rubber
foot mat. Height, 35in.;
length, 411 in. Price, ea., 27/6
Similar Scooter to above, but
without brake 20/-
sdf
USE OUR
D. P. S.
DEPOSIT PURCHASE SYSTEM.
An Interesting Game
The Tailless Donkey Game;
a source of endless amuse-
ment. Prices . . 1/3, 2/3
1/3
M
&85K3@
Stron$-liU
Tease*.
-3S=i©
“Stronglite” Tea Set
Will stand rough wear.
“Stronglite” Aluminium Tea
3/9
Sets. Price 3/9
Others . . 3/-, 4/6, 6/-, 7/6, 9/6
• Toys—Second Floor.
Free Delivery City and
Suburbs only.
Natural Baby Dolls
FROM
Natural Baby Dolls, O/ £
the favorite Dolls of vf\j
to-day. Prices, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6,
7/6, 10/6. 12/6, 15/6, 18/6.
21/1 to 40/-.
17/6
CANE PRAMS
Enamelled Cane I ROM
Matting Prams, rub-
ber-tyred wheels.
Prices, ea., 17/6, 22/9, 27/9
Other types of enamelled cane
Prams—
With iron wheels, 10/6, 13/6
With rubber-tyred wheels.
Prices, each .... 16/6, 17/6
CHINA TEA SETS
Just like mother’s—Dainty
China Tea Sets. Price, 4/6
4/6
Others, 1/-, 1/6, 1/9, 2/6, 3/6,
5/6, 6/6, 7/6.
NATIVE BEARS
FROM
Soft Cuddley Native Bears.
Prices, 2/6, 4/6, 6/9, 10/6
2/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD., SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401 Day and Night.
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


BLUNT TOOLS WASTE
YOUR PROFITS
Postage or Freight Extra. Packed Weight, 16lb.
Properly sharpened tools make all
the difference to your work. This
high-grade Sickle Grinder will
prove a splendid help. Designed
especially for grinding sickles
quickly and correctly, the model
“G,” as shown, can be clamped
to the mower wheel, and will
sharpen two sections at once. It
develops a high speed with little
effort. A Tool Grinder is also
supplied, enabling the model “G”
to be used as an ordinary grinder.
Sickle Cone Wheel is 3 yin. x
Tool Grinding Wheel,
4iin. x Hin.
Price 52/6
Made of specially
treated steel, in sizes of
b 9/16, 11/16, i and
i inch. Screwdriver in-
cluded. Eight-inch hexa-
gon handle attaches to
socket with spring and
ball snap. Price
6/3 per set.
Motorists’ Socket Wrenches.
mmMmMXM
Hundreds of other Tools for the Home, Farm and Workshop
are shown in our latest catalogue. Send for a copy now.
MSPhersorre)
Proprietary, Limited.
51 Bathurst Street
116 Waymouth Street
SYDNEY
ADELAIDE
582 Collins Street
532 Murray Street
MELBOURNE
PERTH
The Radio
Programmes
at your
finger tips
Find at a glance the chief musical items, the
radio plays, the talks or the dance programmes.
The ideal listeners’ paper.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” publication. Every Friday
DIP - BLOWFLY OIL - STATION
vk
ENSURE
HEAETHY
STOCK
HIBISCUS
ItlOf*
SUPPLIES
We specialise in the above, and can
give you the right goods at the right
price.
LOOK AT THE FOLLOWING!
IMPERIAL SHEEP DIP—A VALLO
QUALITY PRODUCT.—Price, 59/6
per case of 1001 b. Write for detailed
pamphlet. Why pay more for same
grade elsewhere?
HIBISCUS CATTLE DlP. —Double strength 1 gallon makes 300 gallons.
Price, in 5-gallon drums, 45/-, and in 1-gallon tins, 10/6 gallon.
HIBISCUS MEDICATED IMPORTED SALT BLOCKS. — £II ton, or 6/6
block. lodised, £l2/10/- ton, or 7/6 block. We also have Australian
manufactured medicated Salt Blocks (Salt and Sulphur) at 4/6 per
501 b. block.
SALT. Coarse Salt for Butchers’ use, 90/- ton. Crude Salt for Sheep, best
quality, 80/- ton 12 bags to the ton. Bowen Crude Salt for Sheep,
70/- ton.
FREIGHT ON SALT AND SALT BLOCKS IS AS FOLLOWS:—
Butchers’ Coarse.
OF OUR GOODS.
WOOLPACKS. —In bales of 50, 3/3; open stock, 3/5.
HIBISCUS BLOWFLY OlL. —Proved by test to be best. Price, 5/6 gallon.
Blowfly Traps, 1/9 each.
26G. GALVANISED CORR. IRON. —Grade A British, very slightly cloudy,
but guaranteed by us quite equal to any brand of Iron on the Market
and °good enough for any new Building or Residence, £23/10/-
ton, or by the sheet, sft. 2/2, 6ft. 2/6, 7ft. 2/11, Bft. 3/4, 9ft. 3/11,
10ft. 4/5. New Iron, Grade B Reject, 6ft. 2/- and Bft. 2/6 sheet.
WIRE AND NETTING. —Big reductions in Rabbit and other Netting. Write
for List.
Sole Agents for Hibiscus H.T. Wire and Hibiscus Barb.
Protect yourself by comparing our prices.
We have no Agents whatsoever —all Orders should be sent direct to us.
NEW LARGE COPYRIGHTED CATALOGUE NOW AVAILABLE. POSTED FREE.
Lowest also for All GROCERIES, FURNITURE, BUILDING MATERIAL, ETC.
Queensland Pastoral Supplies Pty., Ltd.
Bowen Street, off Ann Street (Between Fire Brigade & Ambulance),
BRISBANE.
Address Letters, Box 768 K, G.P.0., Brisbane. ’Phone: 83131 (7 lines).
RHEUMATISM and JOINT PAINS
This Remedy is Confidently Recommended
FORTY-FIVE years doing one
thing only and doing it well —
ending for tens of thousands of
sufferers the misery and pain caused by
weak kidneys, awful rheumatism, bad
backache, the torture of uric acid
troubles, the weakness caused by
bladder trouble, arising from weak
kidney action.
Every reader of this paper must
have heard of wonderful cases where
chronic rheumatism and other troubles
caused by weak kidneys have been
permanently ended by the world-
famous De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills.
Relief in 24 Hours
Go to your chemist now and get a
supply of De Witt’s Pills. From the
very first dose, in 24 hours you see
how they act directly through the
kidneys and know this wonderful
remedy is really doing you good. If
you will only persevere the end of
your pain and weakness is certain and
assured.
This is the clear claim made for
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It is borne out by the thousands and
thousands of letters of gratitude for
relief obtained, when health was de-
spaired of, which have been received
by the proprietors. It is this amazing
evidence that De Witt’s Pills will
surely benefit you when everything else
fails that prompts us to give you this
advice.
»
This safe, always reliable remedy
is invaluable in all cases of pains in the
back, kidney trouble, joint pains, uric
acid trouble, depressed or tired feeling,
rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, sleep-
less nights and bladder weakness. Sold
by all chemists. Start on the road to
health now. Don’t put off until to-
morrow the health you can have to-
day. Ask for, and be sure you obtain
d
DeWitt’s
Kidney and
Bladder
Pills


is a
m
S A 95
Gii ~LETTE NO &8 SET X °-
77? e gift he would
choose himself
It’s a hundred to one that if he were choosing a Shaving Outfit
for himself he would select one from the Gillette range: and,
most probably, he would choose the particular set illustrated
here. This set includes the new and improved Gillette Razor—
the guard and handle of which are now combined in one piece—
also a specially designed hinged blade-holder, together with three
of the new Gillette Slotted Blades. All complete in a nickel-
plated case for 10/-. Wonderful value indeed and an excellent
example of Gillette Leadership in the manufacture of Safety
Razors.
Gillette Slotted Blades now cost only 2/- per packet.
asdf
MADE IN ENGLAND
OF ALL DEALERS
children by grown-ups. I have written
some myself, so I know what I am talking
about. Moreover, the embargo should
be extended to foreign writers, whose
works should be stopped at the frontier.
The order should be made retrospective,
for I fear that fresh editions of A. A.
Milne’s dreadful “Pooh” books and
R. L. Stevenson’s deplorable “Child’s
Garden of Verses” are already approach-
ing these shores. Not to mention others.
A well-meaning reviewer once com-
pleted a laudatory notice of one of my
books by likening it to the “Pooh” books.
As I had never read them I satisfied my
curiosity by borrowing a couple. I de-
cided that if my friendly critic was right
then I would never write another book
for children. It seemed to me that Milne
was as wrong-headed in his attitude
towards the child mind as was Steven-
son. (“Treasure Island” was, of course,
an exception.) The fact that Milne’s
books have sold to the tune of millions
does not necessarily mean that they are
appreciated by juveniles. It may only
mean that the books have been bought
by adults who have the same mistaken
ideas about the cultural needs of chil-
dren as Milne has ; or who like reading
to the nursery.
As far as I can gather, Milne’s philo-
sophy for children can be summed up
in the dictum that children should go to
bed, not when they’re sleepy, but when
mother says they should. J daresay they
listen to the “Pooh” books with the same
resignation that a previous generation
listened to the “Original Fables” of the
enlightened Mrs. Prosser, whose literary
style and ideas survive in the columns of
the “War Cry.”
Every healthy child is an animal born
with the evolutionary appetite. It is a
hopeful animal. Optimism, belief in
itself, are meat and drink to it. It has a
Will to Power which can express itself
in a million ways and in a million ways
can be perverted.
Its only happiness is in the feeling of
increasing strength. An obstacle pre-
sented to it is something to be sur-
mounted. If you seize a baby by the
leg it will struggle and bawl until the
obstruction ceases. It doesn’t sit down
and whine that the world is a hard place,
too hard for suffering humanity, and the
only thing to do is to dream about an
ideal world where there are no mys-
terious leg-grabbing forces. When it
acquires an intellect, however, and the
intellect’s leg is grabbed by the A. A.
Milnes, the Stevensons or the Barries,
this is precisely what it may do.
This being the nature of the child-
mind—and only your A. A. Milnes and
J. M. Barries will venture to deny it—
then I submit that the worst possible
person to cater for it is the modern
adult. This is an age of disillusionment.
Everything appears to have gone smash,
kapot, as the Dutch say. Actually, of
course, all that has gone smash is adult
courage and belief-in itself. Sooner than
meet a new truth we would face a million
machine-guns, and adult literature re-
flects the tendency. When a Shaw depicts
the universal decadence in a “Too True
to Be Good” we push the picture away
and talk about an old man’s indecent
flippancy.
The poets chant their chorus of self-
pity. James Joyce is regarded in
many quarters as the greatest figure of the
century. I read some of his latest poems
recently and they struck me as the pro-
duction of a weakling, of a mind disin-
tegrated. T. S. Eliot’s “The Waste Land”
is a veritable Bible of decadence. The
lesser writers, the elderly romantics, we
have always had with us. The significant
thing to-day is that romance, decadence,
the flight from reality, are the rule, rather
than the exception.
The adult mind has lately constructed
a world after its own heart—namely,
Hitlerism. In this raving madhouse of
adult infantility almost anything can
happen. A parrot can be solemnly sen-
tenced to death by a tribunal for lan-
guage derogatory to a Nazi. Herr Hitler
is accepted as the Nietzschean superman
incarnate ; and all over the world others
are looking round for Hitlers to take the
burden of existence off their shoulders.
Under these circumstances I submit
that the modern adult is incompetent to
write books for healthy children. If
he does he will try, unconsciously, to
infect them with his own despair, melan-
choly, disillusionment, distraction, fear,
dread of suffering, desire for comfort and
physiological weaknesses. He will want
to make the next generation safe for
mediocracy.
F. S.
How to Become a Yogi
That the best things in life are free is
demonstrated yet again by the anonymous
author of The Day spring of Youth (Put-
nam ; Dymock’s; 11s. 5d.). He is an
initiate in the science of Yoga, and gives
these teachings, suited to Western bodies,
by permission of The Great Initiate,
“under whose cloak America and the
western areas of Europe are being
developed”....
To become a Yogi you don’t have to
join anything, except your Innermost.
You don’t have to go to anyone ; it is all
unfolded from within. You can start in
your bedroom. It is a business of linking
up with the right atoms, and by the time
you have finished studying this book
you should understand all about your
Nous Atom, Third Eye and Secret
Enemy, as well as the peculiar vagaries
of your Astral Body.
The principles of Yoga are implicit in
the fundamentals of all religions. It is
a science of which all saints and mystics
have had some far-off confused vision.
In it we go back to first principles. The
world without (the world which most
of us inhabit) is a world of illusion. The
real world is within. We have to regain
our lost heritage, if we wish to develop ;
and in order to do so we must “tune in,”
so to speak, to our Innermost. Then, and
then only, shall we strike chords that will
harmonise us to nature. And then, and
then only, shall we begin to live.
The author says “if youth of to-day
expended in Yoga practice half the energy
used to become successful athletes, they
would become master minds.” Yet it is
doubtful if many will pursue it to a
satisfying, much less successful, conclu-
sion. In the first place success requires
a peculiar mental attitude. Secondly, as
in confession, it is essential to be sincere.
There is nothing spectacular about Yoga ;
and the practitioner who turns to it as a
means of material improvement or for
the sake of being different may end in a
reception house, but not as a Yogi.
Without giving away any more secrets
of this science, it is enough to say that
you can launch yourself into its practice
by some breathing exercises and “aspir-
ing” for the right atoms. If your direction
is right you will come, at that moment,
“under the observation of the Elder
Brothers,” who will guide you against
error. In later phases you may link up
with certain initiates and train on, so to
speak, into a Master Mind.
The average reader may have some
difficulty at first in assimilating The Day-
spring of Youth. Its peculiar style
defies analysis. However, believe it or
not, the work is extremely interesting.
GERALD DILLON.
Nationalism and the Writer
From
One of those gentlemen who are so fond of
advising writers on their job recently upended
himself in Melbourne and said that the Aus-
tralian writer ought to be more nationalistic.
He didn’t say how the writer was to go about
it, but from his accompanying remarks it
seemed that what he meant was that the Aus-
tralian should sell this country to the world, to
use a term popular amongst the publicity poets.
Nationalism has no more to do with litera-
ture than with science, and when it intrudes it
makes an ass of itself. In science it recently
made an American anatomist, anxious to in-
crease his country’s prestige, construct the
earliest example of primitive man out of a bone
which he had found. The patriots were so
pleased with this proof that the United States
was the cradle of Adam that they put his re-
construction in half their museums. Subse-
quently, the relic turned out to be a pig’s bone.
In art nationalism is apt to lure public
speakers into dictating to a writer what he shall
wfite about. The job of the writer has nothing
to do with the Commonwealth Tourist Bureau’s
praiseworthy desire to put Australia on the map.
It is simply to define life. The Australian
writer can only define life as he has seen it, and
he is naturally bound by the life with which
he is surrounded. Therefore it is superfluous
to tell him to be national in his subject-matter,
at any rate. But the terms in which the artist
defines what he has seen are entirely his affair.
Norman Lindsay prefers to define life as he
knows it in terms of the nymphs, fauns and
satyrs of Graeco-Roman mythology, and that is
his business. Tolstoy preferred to define life
as he understood it in himself; so he wrote the
“Kreutzer Sonata”; and that was also his busi-
ness. It was unkind to his wife, but that is
another matter. An Australian writer may
define life as he knows it in terms of gum-trees
and boundary-riders, or in terms of penguins
(as Anatole France did). That also is his
affair. What matters is how much truth, how
much of the eternal, he gets into it.
It is true that all art betrays some traces
of country of origin. An Italian could not
have composed Beethoven’s music. An Italian
as great as Beethoven could have composed
music as great as Beethoven’s, and that is all
that matters, except, perhaps, to a Nazi. But
it would not be the observable evidences of
its national origin which would constitute the
greatness of the music, but the element of
the eternal in it. Country of origin is no
doubt patent in the work of C. J. Dennis,
Henry Lawson, Katharine Prichard. Vance
Palmer and others, but if there was no more
than that in it, it would be as worthless for
export as a pair of Australian braces in a Dyak
village.
“O de V” looks at it from another
angle:
When The Bulletin set out to encourage
Australian novelists several years ago, it made
no stipulation as to the nationality of the en-
trants. It seemed reasonable that a good Aus-
tralian novel could emanate only from one who
knew the country. A Londoner might know a
lot about Australia; many Sydney and Mel-
bourne expatriates know nothing. Yet the Mel-
bourne centenary novel and short-story com-
petitions contain a clause limiting entrance to
writers born in Australia.
This question of preference to the native-born
seldom crops up nowadays. The war cleared
it away with a lot of other insularities. A
man was not barred from enlisting in the
A.I.F. because he had been born in Man-
chester or Auckland. Unfortunately, the pre-
judice cropped up in other ways about the
same time. Hundreds of Australians in Eng-
land and abroad found that to get into the
A.I.F. they would have to pay their fares
back to Australia. Canadians could join the
C.E.F. in England, but the Australian was
eventually forced into the B.E.F. I saw an
insulting letter written by a Defence Department
official in Melbourne in 1916 refusing a group
of Australians in an English unit permission
to transfer to the A.I.F.
The protective spirit behind the Melbourne
novel competition represents a similar point of
view; and it is one that is doing incalculable
harm to Australian literature. We are too prone
to judge Australian books by local standards,
and thereby hangs the reason for much of the
antipathy, or at least lack of interest shown by
Australians towards Australian works. Our
literature must be judged by world standards
if it is to survive and, incidentally, if it is to
circulate beyond our shores. Australia as a
book market at the present day may keep two
or three novelists off the dole, but this is not
nearly enough. We need books that will break
down the prevailing prejudice against Austra-
lian books, and the way to get them is to
welcome all informed and intelligent works
about Australia, irrespective of where the
authors chance to have been born.
A Satchel of Books
The Weekly Courier Christmas Annual
(Rolph ; Is. 6d.) has some fine photo-
graphs of beauty-spots in Tasmania.
Also several articles which will make
Tasmanians on the mainland homesick.
The Australian Museum Magazine
(Oct.-Dec.) has discarded its familiar
one-color cover in favor of a four-color
study of scarlet honeyeaters. This cover
will be used on future issues. The cur-
rent one contains articles on azurite crys-
tals, coral, poisonous spiders, frogs and
toads, household insect pests, primi-
tive implements, and a naturalist’s sur-
vey of Tasmania.
Time and the Singletons, by Ruth Hol-
land (Gollancz ; Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.), is
another of those leisurely pictures of
upper-middle class England which begin
on a note of optimism in the nineteenth
century and peter out wistfully with
nearly all the original characters in their
graves. Mally Singleton, whom we first
meet as a small girl, is the stayer on
this occasion. She loses her mother, her
father, her lover (he was one of the first
to leave for the war, and he was killed
just before his first leave) and everybody
else she has cared for. The novelist goes
with her into the future, showing her as
a lonely old spinster. Then comes the
end, and the young London barrister to
whom she has left Singleton pronounces
her epitaph: “My great-aunt has done
what great-aunts ought to do. She has
died.” The style has a glamor of its
own, and the people are interesting in
their well-bred, unemotional fashion.
The Real McCoy, by Frederic F.
Van de Water (Angus and Robertson ;
65.), is a biography in autobiographical
form of a gentleman who, when the Vol-
stead Act was in flower, was known to
the American police as the “the King of
Rum-runners.” The chiefs of this indus-
try vie with pirates in the romantic
imaginings of thousands; but what a
crowd they were! There is a scornful
reference to the crooks on the beach.
They knew all forms of cheating, bilking
and skulduggery. They were developing hijack-
ing into a science and they were experts in
strong-arm work. But seamanship was a closed
book to them.
Here Mr. McCoy scored. He was an
accomplished seaman. Otherwise there
doesn’t seem to have been a pin to
choose between him and the skulduggers.
Midnight Sun over Karnoe, by Peter
Hall (Gollancz ; Dymock’s ; 7s. 6d.), has
a new setting. Karnoe is an island in
the Arctic Ocean, and its melancholy
and bleak atmosphere are skilfully con-
veyed. For the rest the work is a sex-
horror yarn with a fisherman’s wife as
the instrument of ruin. The vampish
Drana never comes to life, because we
are only told about her ; there is little
dialogue, and she is given less to say
than most of the characters. A typical
passage:—
I felt as though life were ebbing away from
me at the thought that in a few hours Drana
would no longer be there and that I should
never see her again. It was not love ; it was
a quite different, quite unfamiliar feeling, and
one that would never come to me again in my
life. 1 cannot explain it, can give it no name;
perhaps some day, when the world is quite
still around me, I shall hear something that will
remind me of this feeling.
The chief defect of the book is that
the writer constantly dodges his difficul-
ties in this manner.


f
' -V.
*
.
till
■
■
■ * ■ \,, :'
■ S. m
' ??* '
■
J :*<£ I;; • , - r / ''
:j.
//<S y w/w,
/


The Bulletin
Vol. 54—No. 2805.
November 15, 1933.
PROOF POSITIVE.
“Dey vill not pelieve ve are for disarmament, Kronprinz. Der pigdogs. vant. proofs. Proofs! Haf ve not disarmed our Jews?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, 14 Panama
Street, Wellington.
London: 177-178 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas : 12 months.
£1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on This Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji
and United Kingdom via “All Sea Route,” 2d.
New Hebrides and United Kingdom via France
or America, 3d. To all other places, 4d.
“THE BEST TRADITIONS.”
The result of the Leg. Council election
caused so little indignation that an ob-
server might be excused for wondering
whether the N.S.W. public conscience
is dead. Perhaps the truth is that it has
been dulled by so many shocks adminis-
tered by politicians, the latest being the
Federal salary grab, that it has become
incapable, for a time at least, of being
roused by anything that may be done
in Macquarie-street. The duty of elect-
ing the first 15 members of the “re-
formed” House fell on the heads of 204
Solons, a few being absent. Ten of the 204
were unable to write the numbers 1 to
30 correctly beside a list of names.
The exhibition given by the remainder
was edifying, but not encouraging to a
belief in the intelligence of politicians.
Some N. S. Wales State members may
be judges of language and of how far
they dare to go in their treatment of long-
suffering electors; but even their best
friends would scarcely call them judges
of men when they dismiss Dr. Maguire,
who is not only a leader of the medical
profession but a man of outstanding
character, a capital speaker and an ex-
Digger, with a solitary vote. One vote
for Dr. Maguire; ten votes for Mr.
Trautwein ; ten for Mr. Alam!
And “S. M. Herald” goes out of its
way to compliment the 204. It pro-
nounces their work “satisfactory to all
those who want to see the reformed
House modelled on the best traditions of
the old one of former days.” Shades of
W. C. Wentworth and his contem-
poraries! The “Herald” proceeds to
say:
If subsequent ballots maintain the showing in
the main of the first one, there should be little
cause for complaint in the final result.
Does the paper with Australia’s largest
morning circulation believe that there is
little cause for complaint about the elec-
tion of Mr. Trautwein? Let its editor
read the report of the fruit-machine in-
quiry and be frank.
Every man who voted for Mr. Traut-
wein must have read Justice Halse
Rogers’s measured condemnation of him.
The evidence before the Commission re-
vealed this new Legislative Councillor as
a political fixer for persons who desired
to paralyse the law so that they might
reap huge profits from an illegal profiteer-
ing gambling device. Before the Royal
Commission, in his Honor’s judgment,
Trautwein was guilty not only of this
gross misconduct but of impudent pre-
varication. Justice Halse Rogers wrote:
I came to the conclusion that Trautwein was
an unsatisfactory witness and that he was not
telling the truth in regard to certain matters
about which he was examined. According to
evidence given by detectives, he admitted to
them that he received the money [£3ooo] in the
first instance to pass to persons connected with
the party in power —. Trautwein proved un-
truthful in the account which he gave of his
reason for subsequently handing back the
money.
Will it promote the best traditions of
an Upper House in a British community
to have a man with a year-old stigma of
this sort hung round his neck foisted
into membership of a House of Review
for twelve years?
The questioning of Mr. Trautwein
before the Commission was enlivened by
passages like this:
It is your signature. You wrote it? —I did not
write it.
It is your signature?-^—lt looks like it.
Who wrote it? —I do not know.
How did you come to sign it?—l am doubt-
ful if I did sign it or not. It looks like my
writing.
Eventually, he had “no doubt” that he
had signed it. Has an Australian State
come to a point where it needs M.Ps.
who cannot recognise their own signa-
tures on vital letters except under pres-
sure of cross-examination?
The Judge found that Trautwein did
get £3OOO to secure immunity from
prosecution for his clients, and that he
did approach a Labor Minister, but
What he did with the money cannot be said.
And the leading morning newspaper
believes that, if future ballots return only
a few candidates like this in every 15,
“there will be little cause for complaint”!
Then there is Mr. Alam. What does
the community think of his election?
Mr. Alam it was who shouted at the
House, when inveighing against the aboli-
tion of night-betting, that
If I thought I could defeat this bill by the
use of crook ballot-boxes, 1 would use them.
Is this kind of speech in the “best
traditions” of Upper Houses in British
communities? Or this:
Mr. Alam: I made it my business to go to
the starting-price bookmakers with whom I
bet I got their views on it.
A Member: But starting-price betting is
illegal.
Mr. Alam: I know it i 5.... I will keep on
doing it as long as there is a starting-price
shop going. If the law is ridiculous it is bound
to be evaded.
Mr. Shakespeare: If the hon. member does
he will be defrauding the revenue.
Mr. Alam: A terrible thing!.... I make
no apology for having used the House tele-
phones for the purpose.... I am proud of it.
Modelled on the highest traditions, is
it? There was a gentleman who lived
before the Christian era whose name
sounded like Mr. Alam’s, though it be-
gan with a different initial. The Epistle
of St. Peter —in that chapter which refers
to the dog returning to his vomit and the
sow that was washed to her wallowing in
the mire—says that this ancient “loved
the wages of unrighteousness.” It is: his
tradition which this election of members
by members in its most glaring aspects
seems to have been modelled on, and it
is to be hoped that before the next Coun-
cil poll takes place public opinion, which
so long has played the dumb ass to the
Parliamentary Balaams, will speak and
warn them of the danger ahead. If the
present complacency about political
uncleanliness continues, new Simon Peters
may arise overseas and set the brands
of Alam and Balaam and Trautwein on
the whole Commonwealth.
THE MEANING OF “NIL.”
How great is the need for charity legis-
lation which will spray with daylight
some of the gilded concerns which at
present sit on the shoulders of the public,
particularly in Sydney, is shown by the
report of the N. S. Wales Community
Hospital, embodied in eight pages of
ballyhoo, which must have cost 15 per
cent, of the hospital’s 1932-33 credit
balance to print.
The document looks more like a movie
magazine than a report. There are por-
traits of attractive nurses and patients,
and a photograph of Mr. Weaver trying
to smile. And the reading matter is as
captivating as the pictures. Business men
who are cut up in the Community
Hospital have a free secretary and a
French library provided. Lady con-
valescents are urged to invite their friends
to tea. A paragraph describes how the
adventurous inmate can “ring London
from his own room.” No visitor need
dry his hands here upon a towel; ex-
pensive hot-air machines are installed.
Proud mothers who add to the popula-
tion in this paradise have the advantage
of an up-to-date publicity service which
becomes vital, when they deliver their
pledges, in “the special N. S. Wales Hos-
pital Babygram.” In a word the hos-
pital, as its sponsors modestly put it,
combines medical, surgical and clinical facili-
ties with modern hospital hotel service.
Tucked away at the back of the docu-
ment the balance sheet and statistics
nestle. These, though homoeopathic, are
intriguing to the mathematician, particu-
larly if he happens to be a subscriber or
a country doctor scrap ing to get enough
stretchers to stick his influenza patients
on.
The personnel of the committee alone
is worth reading. Presidents and deputy-
presidents, chairmen and deputy-chair-
men, Ms.L.C., knights, Commonwealth
Ministers and bank officials mingle with
stern democrats. Such an association has
its advantages; since all political parties
are involved, there is not likely to be any
of the nasty Parliamentary criticism which
flaws the primrose path for institutions
that keep out of politics. The offices of
the benign institution are housed in the
most palatial collecting joint in Aus-
tralia, along with a nest of other hospitals
and kindness-to-humans societies. Some
have been specifically excepted from the
operations of Mr. Chaffey’s Charities
Act.
The reader is now prepared for the
hospital statistics, which boil down to
this: —•
Number on committee .. .. .. 22
Number of honorary doctors .. ..51
Daily average of beds occupied .. .. 14.9
Daily average number of out-patients . . 15.8
From each in-patient—333 during the
year—the hospital took an average of
£4 7s. 6d. per week ; total, £3384 10s. 7d.
From the. average out-patient, it took
just over 7s. per head ; total, £2093 13s. 4d.
Pathology fees added another £135.
But patients could not be expected to
get private secretaries and babygrams
out of £4 7s. 6d. a week, so two other
benevolent sources were called upon. One
was the State Government, which gave
£lO5O, and thus paid for all the food
used and a little over, and the public,
which weighed in with
Donations & subscrip-
tions (unconditional) £l2 0 6
Auxiliaries .. .. 803 12 10
£Bls 13 4
In view of this windfall—mark that
the Government subsidy amounted to
£1 ss. 9d. per net £ contributed by the
public—the hospital now spent:
Printing and stationery £2Ol 15 8
Advertising .. .. 311 8 7
Stamps & postages, papers,
books and telephones 331 8 2
£B44 12 5
In other words, an amount equal to £2
11s. per in-patient. These expenditures ate
up the whole of the public contributions,
plus £2B 19s. Id. Public subscribers are
requested to note that when they aid
what the hospital calls “its mission of
mercy” a receipt from the secretary is
“sufficient discharge.” They can’t de-
mand a balance sheet.
Curiosity, reading of a net contribution
from an “auxiliary,” naturally wonders,
first, what an auxiliary is, and, second,
how it works and what its work costs.
The uncharitable might imagine, since the
N. S. Wales Community Hospital is
lodged with a collecting enterprise whose
head is vice-chairman and whose officials
are dotted thickly about its committee
and supervisory lists, that the auxiliary
was a professional show. Nothing of the
kind. The auxiliary is just the committee
of the hospital, with an honorary pro-
moter added.
And if a doubting public thinks it
costs anything to raise £BO3 for charity
and makes a living for anybody let him
ask the chairman
What were the costs involved in collecting
the £BO3 12s. lOd. shown as auxiliary contribu-
tions in the balance sheet?
The chairman will reply on paper which
bears the address “Parliament House”
and the number of a telephone which is
lodged at the collecting joint half a mile
from Macquarie-street:
Nil. As shown on the Art-union balance
sheet submitted to the Honorable the Attorney-
General, the net amount was handed over.
He may, also, in time, produce the Art-
union balance sheet —an interesting docu-
ment which elucidates the meaning of the
word “Nil.” ,
The full facts show that the com-
mittee, acting as an auxiliary, collected
£3853 by the sale of art-union tickets.
It then spent £1275 on prize-money
(£446 in “special” prizes), £542 on stamps
(£260 less than the net amount eventually
handed over), and another £458 17s. on
printing and stationery, £397 on salaries,
£262 on advertising, £BB in general ex-
penses and some other small items. After
which Mr. Brooks and Mr. Fitzpatrick,
chairman and deputy-chairman of the
auxiliary, handed over a balance of £BO3
to Mr. Brooks and Mr. Fitzpatrick of the
hospital. The latter, patting themselves
on the back, say: “Thank God that didn’t
cost anything to raise!” In all, the hos-
pital spent £2288 approx, on publicity and
printing and stamps. So its publicist acti-
vities cost £1473 more than the net
return, not taking nearly £l3OO in prize
money into account.
The information supplied to The Bul-
letin by the chairman in a letter as to
price of tickets in the art union and the
amount of prizes given does not tally
with the balance-sheet figures. The chair-
man’s estimates are 50 p.c. on the modest
side in the case of ticket prices; his
conception of the amount of prize money
falls £270 short of the balance-sheet
figure.
Nothing is said in any of his revela-
tions about a Golden Chest Art-union
with almost illimitable prizes which was
to have closed on June 30.
Nor is there any minority report by the
Commonwealth Minister for Health, a
committeeman, explaining that Australia’s
tropical hygiene expenses have been cut
to the bone for lack of funds, and that
John Flynn is having the struggle of his
life to provide galvanised shelters for
the sunbaked wrecks of Centralia, for
whom there is not enough money to buy
bandages and iodine, much less French
novels and air-driers.
BREEDING CRACKS AGAIN.
Australia has had greater three-year-
olds than Hall Mark, but none gamer.
The performance of this chestnut colt,
little more than a pony and lamed by
the Derby race, in winning the Mel-
bourne Cup with blood issuing from a
split heel is thrilling to read about, and
was thrice thrilling to witness. And,
what has been rare in Melbourne Cup
winners these many years, he is Aus-
tralian-bred on both sides of the house.
In the early days of horseracing in
these parts, Australia and Maoriland had
the great good luck to get stallions and
mares bred from the finest English strains
at bargain prices, and judicious importa-
tions were made in later periods. The
result was that in the ’nineties and early
nineteen-hundreds both countries had
some of the finest racehorses in the
world. This was recognised overseas,
and for years Australian and M.L.
breeders and owners enjoyed a highly
profitable export trade. Carbine, his rac-
ing days over, was bought by the Duke
of Portland for what in those days
seemed almost a fabulous sum. Other
Britons bid eagerly for horses like Mer-
man, Newhaven, The Grafter, Australian
.Star, Maluma, Aurum (perhaps the best
of the lot, though unfortunately he went
wrong before he could show his paces on
the English turf) and Georgic. Stromboli
went to U.S.A., Hautvilliers to South
America; South Africa, as Richard
Wootton could testify, was invaded with
success; in India it was regarded as
strange if an Australian-bred horse did
not capture the Viceroy’s Cup.
While this exodus of our best horses
was going on, values were constantly
rising. English breeders began to de-
mand 15,000, 20,000, even 30,000 guineas
for fashionable stallions, and breeders in
this country intent on replenishing their
studs could not or would not go that
high. Samuel Hordern went to five
figures for Bronzino, but the experiment
was riot a success. Others with less pluck
thought they could get along by paying
for English stallions and mares hundreds
where breeders in France, U.S.A. and
Argentina gave thousands. Now and
then a high-class stallion or mare was
fluked, for horsebreeding is no exact
science ; but for the most part studs in
Australia and Maoriland became over-
run with third-rate stock, broken-winded
brutes some of them. In the result stayers
reproducing the old-time qualities of the
Australian thoroughbred became rare;
but speedy squibs abounded. The over-
seas markets were lost.
In the last ten years the situation has
changed. Descendants of Carbine were
bought in England for this country with
excellent results. The closing of English
racecourses during the war led to Magpie
being sent to Australia ; a first-class race-
horse, he has earned even greater distinc-
tion as a sire. Valais, Spearhead and
Pantheon were happy purchases ; so was
Night Raid in Maoriland. The improved
quality of the stock produced in the
nineteen-twenties was strikingly illus-
trated in the AJ.C. Derby of 1924, in
which Heroic, Nigger Minstrel and
Spearfelt took part in a finish which was
in doubt until the judge hoisted the num-
bers. All three have made good as sires ;
and so has Windbag, whom a mishap
prevented from measuring strides with
them in the Derby, and who was per-
haps a better horse, over all distances,
than any of them.
Hall Mark is a son of Heroic ; Topical,
third in Hall Mark’s Melbourne Cup,
is a son of Windbag, as also are those
beautiful horses Chatham, who has twice
won the Epsom, and Winooka, now in
the U.S.A. For more years than one
cares to remember Australian-bred sires
figured ingloriously in the annual list;
it was regarded as noteworthy if one
came nine or tenth and if three were in
the first twenty. They did as well as
their opportunities permitted; the best
horse-breeding country and the pick of
the mares were reserved for importations.
Heroic and Windbag have altered all
that. Last season Heroic headed the list
with 47 winners and prize-money total-
ling £25,468 ; Windbag was second with
23 winners and £23,987 —it would have
been a good deal more had not Liberal
been put out of action. For a parallel
to this achievement, which looks like
being repeated this season, one must go
back to the days of Wallace and Maltster.
The A.J.C. and V.R.C. committees
received little but hostile criticism when
they decided to reserve their Derby races
for colts and fillies. Breeders, owners,
trainers and nearly all the sporting
writers were against them, and in cer-
tain quarters they were ridiculed. The
laugh is on their side now. Their ban
on geldings will help to restore the re-
nown of Australian studs and racehorses
and (what, in a national sense, is more
important) contribute to the revival of the
demand for Australian remounts.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Fairbairn for Flinders.
J V. Fairbairn has won the Flinders
seat with the unexpectedly large majority
of 14,000-odd over the Labor candidate,
Dr. Haywood. He stood in the U.A.P.
interest, but he will be no meek sup-
porter of Lyons and Parkhill. During the
campaign he condemned the salary grab
without mincing his words. His senti-
ments on the subject are evidently shared
by Casey, one of the new Ministers, who
represents a neighboring electorate.
Loyalty to his colleagues impelled
Casey to join them in voting for the
grab, and to remain silent while the
Prime Minister argued that members
were entitled to distribute £9765 p.a.
among themselves, seeing that £3OOO was
to be presented to Kingsford Smith ; to
preserve silence also when Parkhill gave
the public to understand that he was
going to do dreadful things to the Syd-
ney “Sun,” and then sustained a rush
of ice to the feet. Without making a
song about it, Casey is handing over his
share of the money appropriated after the
midnight meeting of members to Geelong
charities.
It is good to see young members of
distinguished Victorian families entering
public life, especially such as went to
the war and returned with an under-
standing of and a feeling for the average
man. N. S. Wales is sorely in need of
that sort of representative. At U.A.P.
headquarters they prefer Tory ranters
and Labor rats.
■ ♦ <
Juries and Jury-squaring.
The eccentricities of juries are receiving
attention again. In a recent murder ap-
peal case the Acting-Chief Justice of
N. S. Wales remarked that, so long as
the twelve good men had the power to
convict for manslaughter where murder
was charged, so long would there be
incidents like that in which two ruffians
shot a harmless passer-by in Bondi and
got away with the minor count.
Queensland Court Reports periodically
record the remarks of Judges—particu-
larly Macrossan, J. —on what appear to
be miscarriages of justice through the
stupidity or tenderheartedness of juries.
There is a move for the abolition of
special juries of four which sit on
Queensland civil cases —they used to
have a high reputation for intelligence
and were drawn from the better type of
commercial man. Queensland, however,
has become highly democratic.
Victoria has been notorious for its
juries and those who live on them. It
was the first State to legislate against
jury-squaring ; and the legislation is far
from being 100 per cent, effective. Now
South Australia’s turn has come. The
Crown Prosecutor, Mr. Chamberlain, has
written a report to the Attorney-General
which should make the public hair stand
on end. He talks of
prevalence of attempts to interfere with jury-
men. .. .in some cases with marked success from
the point of view of the accused person....
I have had evidence in certain cases that the
jury could be got at; there have been acquittals
which did not appear to be based on the
evidence in those cases.
Of course, this outspoken public ser-
vant is in no position to fix the blame.
But he shows how the oracle can be
worked.
The client obtains a copy of the panel with
names, addresses and occupations of the jury-
men. With such a start, it is easy for a team
of the defendant’s friends to set about the
business in hand The more of a rogue
the defendant is the easier it is for him to find
friends who will buy immunity.
And jurymen, in the main quite inno-
cently, “fall easy prey to propaganda.”
So next session is to see a jury-squaring
bill passed in S.A. which will make panels
more secret. There will, however, be
abuses so long as it is possible for knaves
and noodles to be empanelled.
. .
Well Done, Diggers!
The Commonwealth Congress of the
R.S.L. gave a jolt to the pacifist poli-
ticians by declaring unanimously for an
immediate return .to compulsory military
training for youths.
The thing was done at the instance of
the Westralian delegates, their State
branch having passed a similar resolution
(it is a queer commentary on the secesh
agitation), and Archdeacon Riley spoke
in a strain which may be com-
mended to some bishops. He said that
even under the present milk-and-water
system of voluntary training he found
the youths of his acquaintance infinitely
the better for the taste of discipline to
which, elsewhere, most of them were
strangers.
Other delegates pointed out that com-
pulsory training would be a godsend to
many youngsters now eating their hearts
out in idleness,
It .was the wretched Scullin Ministry
that suspended compulsory training,
though a Labor Government instituted
it. It will take courage to restore it,
but, if Australia is to have an army
worthy the name, restored it will have
to be.
4
More Native Trouble.
“M.”: The remarks of Judge Wells dur-
ing the trial at Darwin of Constable Gor-
don Stott for assaulting a native were
timely. Stott, a mounted constable of
long and specialised experience with
natives, and son of the first police com-
missioner in Central Australia, was
accused of what his Honor called “an
unbelievably bloodthirsty assault.” An
organisation describing itself as the Asso-
ciation for the Protection of Aboriginal
Races briefed counsel, who was ordered
out of court on the second day of the
trial, the Bench remarking that the at-
tempt of the association to interfere
“was meddlesome, impertinent and mis-
chievous” and that the charges were abso-
lutely without foundation.
There are too many of these stupid
societies about. Their activities, react-
ing through a vacillating Administration,
endanger the lives of policemen and
whites, and in the end result in cheeky
blacks going too far and provoking
“punitive expeditions and reprisals.”
Not long ago the N. S. Wales “Rail-
way Journal,” which carries on the Com-
munist type of propaganda, published
photographs of natives wearing chains
which I myself took at Boorooloola,
where Stott was stationed at the time of
the alleged recent outrage.
When the pictures were snapped one
policeman was in charge of the place.
He had 30 prisoners under his care and
no gaol to put them in. The chains were
light and the gentlemen who wore them
were as fat as butter ; they seemed to
regard their bonds as a special mark
of Government favor. While I was on
the spot one large naked person waited
on the sergeant and asked to be run in
so that he might draw rations. Yet the
busybodies who used my photographs,
without permission and without reference
to me, sobbed over the indignity to which
the poor native was subjected, and,
though the pictures were nine years old,
they made it appear as if they were
examples of contemporary art.
There has been police brutality in the
N.T. on the part of raw newcomers. Old
hands born among the blacks, like the
Stotts, whose family record of over 40
years in the service has been a splendid
one, know better than to be violent except
in extreme cases.
4
The Making of Tariffs.
In a recent issue of “Foreign Affairs,” F.
W. Taussig, who used to be chairman of
the U.S.A. Tariff Commission, discussed
the fiscal policy of his country and its
fruits. He said:
We raise duties pitilessly and rigidly; with
each successive tariff act we shove them higher
and higher. We make them applicable to all
countries without mitigation. It' any one of
them grants a favor or reduction to another,
the President may impose heavy additional
duties on their products, may even exclude them.
All this has bred “friction, animosity,
commercial warfare.”
This country has taken the wrong path and
set a demoralising example with the pretext and
the boast that here is the one cure for adversity,
the one way of prosperity. Now that it is
obvious even to the man in the street that all
this has been an abject failure, let us turn
to the better way; loosen our restrictions on
foreign trade, encourage other countries to
loosen theirs, turn from economic threat and
economic war to friendly effort and friendly
intercourse.
A good many Australians would talk
in a similar strain of Australia’s tariff
policy in relation to countries outside the
Empire and would suggest the same
remedy.
Tariff-making is no longer the simple
job it was in the early days of the cen-
tury. Then it was largely a matter of
clapping duties on a few products of an
immensely prosperous Britain, which, far
from resenting it, was rather tickled at the
impudence of the whelp. Those days are
gone beyond recall, and the Old Man’s
predominance with them. Similarly, re-
taliation was almost unknown then, but
the technique is comparatively simple and
has been learned everywhere. Canberra
politicians put an embargo on Belgian
sheet-glass and barley-growers in South
Australia and cattle men at the back of
Wyndham find themselves menaced with
ruin. Australians say they can do with-
out Italian things; and Italians reply they
can do without our wheat. Frenchmen
show a like disinclination to turn the
other cheek.
Australia needs factories and work-
shops to secure a right balance between
primary and secondary industries, to give
our young men opportunities of develop-
ing the mechanical talent which so many
have shown they possess, and to prepare
the means of carrying on a defensive war
should, we be attacked and isolated ; and
factories and workshops need to be pro-
tected. But many Australian politicians
have yet to realise that they are living in
a world to which nineteenth-century con-
ditions no longer apply, a world which
refuses to trade on a single-track basis
and insists that those who sell must buy.
One of the Federal Labor members
entertained the House of Representatives
the other day by reading something that
President McKinley said in support of a
tariff item in 1893. He might as well have
quoted something Alexander Hamilton
said in 1793 ; it would have been equally
relevant to the circumstances of 1933.
It is fortunate that we have a Tariff Board
which does realise that we are living in
the third decade of the twentieth cen-
tury. It is the function of the Tariff
Board to collect the evidence for and
against any proposed duty and to con-
sider the question in all its bearings
(which very few politicians ever do), and
it does the job well. Of course, it is for
Parliament to arrive at decisions and take
the responsibility for them ; but Parlia-
ment is not without members who recog-
nise that the shaping of an enlightened
fiscal policy has become a task for the
best brains we possess, and that there are
some very good brains on the Tariff
Board.
♦
Canberra Finds a Champion.
From Hugh Main, N.S.W. Minister of
Agriculture:
Is it folly or guile that makes A. H.
Edwards, of Tasmania (B. 1/11 /’33), compare
the conditions attached to Parliamentary repre-
sentatives for the State of Washington with
those at Canberra?
Washington State is about three-quarters of
the size of Victoria, with a slightly higher pro-
portionate population. In Victoria there are
65 members of the Lower House and 34 mem-
bers of the Upper House. Washington has
99 Representatives and 46 Senators.
A fairer comparison with Canberra would be
Washington (F.C.T.).
Australia and U.S.A. are approximately the
same area, though the populations differ. At
Canberra there are 76 Ms.H.R. and 36 Senators
at £825 per annum. At Washington there are
435 Ms.H.R. and 96 Senators, all at 10,000
dollars per annum. Also, I am informed, each
member is provided with an office and a
stenographer.
The position at Olympia (Wash.) seems rather
in favor of subdivision. If our large unwieldy
States were subdivided into more suitable areas,
then a cheaper and more effective form of
government would be possible, such as is ex-
emplified in the State of Washington.
The Minister’s letter will please the
gentlemen at Canberra, who are rather
short of champions ; but no such com-
parison appeared. “The populations”
certainly “differ”—6,6oo,ooo in Australia
and 127,000,000 in the U.S.A.—and there
is a corresponding difference in wealth ;
but naturally Mr. Main does not dwell
on such considerations. Presumably he
got his facts from the “Statesman’s Year-
Book” ; he might have added that mem-
bers of Congress receive “an allowance,
based on distance, for travelling ex-
penses” ; our Commonwealth and State
members have gold passes entitling them
to travel free over the Government rail-
ways and tramways of Australia and
Maoriland.
A “fairer comparison” than the Min-
ister’s has been made by Coleman, ex-
M.H.R., in a Sydney “Sun” article:
Canadian Federal politicians receive 4000
dollars per session, with deductions for non-
attendance at sittings. In South Africa, where
the electorates are smaller, Federal members
are paid £4OO per annum, with deductions of
£3 per day of session absent. In M.L. members
are paid £450 per annum, and £4OO in Great
Britain. '
The Bulletin agrees with one of Mr.
Main’s paragraphs—the last.
—♦ —
Destroying History.
The N. S. Wales Government has virtu-
ally made up its mind to reorganise Mac-
quarie-street, Sydney, one of the finest
streets in the Commonwealth. The Dis-
trict Court buildings and the Mint are
to make way for a cathedral; there
will then be two cathedrals and two large
churches bunched together. Next to the
Mint is the General Hospital with its
morgue opening on the Domain. This
may be turned into Law Courts; the
hospital will leave for the suburbs.
Parliament House will go, too. Half
of it, with fitting symbolism, has de-
veloped the Great Australian Lean and is
propped up with posts. When the Voices
of the Nation have been sent to what is
now Government House, which is
situated in a Great Wide Open Space
where one can yell and curse without
disturbing the sleep of neighbors across
the street, a much-needed reform will
have been accomplished. The Governor
will cross the harbor to Admiralty House,
and on part of the vacant blocks which
will be left a featureless Noah’s Ark will
be built as a temporary public library.
No doubt it is right that churches
should be given, cathedral sites and
that State Parliaments which will be-
come less and less important as
the Commonwealth absorbs their power
should be made more comfort?'bl°
during their declining years. But
the sort of vandalism which destroys
buildings which have risen from the roots
ot history is short-sighted, apart from
the irreverence which it shows towards
the pioneers who planned them. Mac-
quarie built the first enduring public
buildings in Australia—except for the
storehouse which stands at Circular Quay
in Sydney, and which reared its grim
walls (now plastered with advertisements)
in the interregnum after Bligh’s rebellion.
The District Court —once convict bar-
racks, but not bloody, like London’s
Tower—may be an ugly piece of brick,
though its front has a certain charm. In
two hundred years it would have an in-
calculable tourist value. Instead of pull-
ing down these old buildings, the in-
teriors of which include some beautiful
carving, which is a credit to our earlier
tradesmen, they should be turned into
historical museums. Sydney is the only
city in the world of its size which has
not such an institution.
♦
Another Netherlands.
Not the least satisfactory section of the
Queensland Land Board’s annual report
is that which deals with prickly-pear.
It is amazing to think that in a few years
there won’t be any, except in florists’
windows and museums. Seven years ago,
millions of acres of pear were so closely
packed that nothing could get through it.
This year, the Queensland authorities dis-
tributed only 1,185,000 Cactoblastis eggs
for destructive purposes, which went to
“a few particular areas.” This was the
“smallest distribution since 1926.”
The fact that it was not on a greater scale
....furnishes conclusive evidence of the suc-
cessful establishment of this insect throughout
the pear areas.
In the last 12 months whole districts of
pear in south-west Queensland collapsed
completely. The work which now calls for
the greatest vigilance is the disposal of
the land which has been cleared and
the constant inspection of occupied ex-
pear areas to see that owners allow no
new growth.
During the year the department opened
for selection 7,889,149 acres of land for-
merly occupied by pear, and how thor-
oughly the clearing job has been done
may be judged from the fact that
7,163,700 acres —90.8 p.c.—were snapped
up. About half a million acres were
withdrawn, presumably for further treat-
ment, and 172,800 acres, only, remain to
be selected. So, on country where the
pest drove every settler before it and
which had come to be looked on as hope-
less, there are now 1300 farmers.
The result is all the more a subject for
congratulation because of the economy
with which it has been effected. Rents
from pear-cleansed land are not credited
to the pear branch, which receives a
grant of £50,000 p.a. from the Treasury
and adds a few thousands to it from
sales of pear poisons and minor refunds
of expenses. The rent from farms con-
siderably more than pays the interest on
this grant and in a very few years should
recoup the amounts sunk in clearing
work.
In Holland they celebrate as national
festivals the anniversaries of reclama-
tions from the Zuyder Zee, which are
totalled in only thousands of acres. The
area of prickly-pear land which has
been reclaimed in the last seven years in
Australia is equal to the area of the whole
of the Netherlands.
A New Tourist Road.
The North Coast road which is to be
built from Brisbane is long overdue.
While millions have been spent on
cementing Brisbane streets it has been
well-nigh impossible for Queenslanders
in the sugar and fruit districts 50 to 80
miles away to motor to the capital. The
Brisbane motorist, for his part, rarely
gets further north than Redcliffe.
Along the 80 miles north from Bris-
bane the tourist will survey some of the
loveliest and most characteristic scenery
in the world. The curious Glass House
Mountains, with names that sound like
an intoxication test; the glorious forest
reserves of Palmwoods ; the red heights
of Montville, where the orange-groves
smell like a dream of Seville : the pine-
apple farms of Buderim and the broad
Maroochy and Mooloolah, with their
adjacent miles of beach; Coolum
and Nindherry, looking down on Old
Woman Island —these are unique in Aus-
tralian scenery. At Nambour, sugar
grows ; and there is no better heavy river
rod-fishing than in the Noosa, a few
miles north again, where the dewfish run
to 601 b.
The North Coast road will open a new
tourist district; but there will be the
usual fly in the usual ointment: the road
will run parallel to the railway, and,
having built it, the Government will do
everything possible to limit its use. So
the chances are that it will sink into the
same category as the Hume highway and
the road to Canberra.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Pons”: Now that every enterpris-
ing butcher calls himself a meat-
specialist, now that our undertakers are
morticians and every carter a removalist,
it is but natural that the urge for pom-
pous titles should have spread to other
fields of human endeavor. The other
day my bell rang and a mild little man
proffered'a large card. It introduced him
as an “adjusting acoustician and tonal
operative.” He was a piano-tuner!
“He made his money out of stones, miss.”
“You mean diamonds?”
“No; he ran a weighing-machine.”
“Mells”: De Valera, according to
Philip Guedalla is a poor speaker,
rambling, inconsequent, often losing the
threads of his argument; in short, “with
something English in his ineffectiveness.”
And of humor he has none ; his solemn,
unsmiling eyes bore through immense
horn-rimmed spectacles into friend and
foe alike. Guedalla accounts it strange
that such a man should have risen to
the leadership of “a nation of orators"
and “a nation of humorists”; but is it
strange? Parnell never spoke more often
than he could help and then said as little
as he could ; he had neither eloquence
nor humor. Contemporaries declared it
was his hard, matter-of-fact attitude that
gave him his ascendancy over his fol-
lowers, an ascendancy that De Valera
has rivalled, but no one else. Perhaps the
very fact that the Irish are “a nation of
orators” has caused a certain distrust of
leaders who rise to eminence by stringing
glittering sentences together. I have seen
kids turn thankfully to a piece of plain
bread-and-butter after a surfeit of cake.
* * * *
“Kerys”: Spurious coins? When the
Pitt-street tram conductor shook his head
over the shilling tendered by the sweet
young thing in the organdie bow, she said
with a catch in her voice that it was the
only cash she had. A chivalrous man
opposite promptly requested permission
to pay her fare and received her almost
tearful thanks. He also examined the
rejected coin and remarked that it looked
all right, whereupon the young person said
promptly, “Oh, I’m so glad you think it
isn’t a bad coin. Please keep it and
take your tuppence out of it and give
me tenpence change.” Amid the breath-
less interest of the rest of the passengers
the young man handed the pretty flapper
the tenpence, and thoughtfully watched
her hop off the tram. “And is it a bad
shilling?” asked an onlooker. “The
worst crookie I’ve ever come across,”
confessed the victim ruefully.
•*!•' ❖ A' *
“C. 8.”: Fifty years ago the Salvarmy
was only just digging itself in in Mel-
bourne. In places where it held meetings
gangs of hooligans turned up, tore up
the Blood and Fire banners, smashed the
organs and put their hoofs through the
drums. Only when special police protec-
tion was given the new sect did the per-
secution cease. On Cup day this year
Booth’s battalions staged a march
through the city to protest against the
racing carnival. Not even the most
ardent punter heaved a brick at the de-
voted band, which included grey-haired
veterans of the days when the Army was
obliged to meet in secret in suburban
catacombs.
* * * *
“Hamer”: As the writer of the story
“Courage” I quite agree that a whipcrack
best describes a clean rifle shot; but
when a bullet sings close to the ear the
whipcrack is lost in the waspy “whiss-
spits,” and when bullets, fired low, strike
all sorts of objects there is any amount
of pinging. I tried to make a careful
analysis of battle-sounds, but it would be
impossible to describe many of them in
intelligible terms. Those huge gas
cylinders we hurtled over in the last six
months of the war always reminded me,
as they passed overhead (especially if the
atmosphere was very moist), of a ferry
boat coming into the Quay and going
astern to make the wharf. A high burst
of shrapnel compared with the sharp
tearing of a huge sheet of calico. When
I first returned from the war I lived on
a road much used by late motor-cars,
with a steep grade to the beach. Fre-
quently I woke up in the morning to find
myself under the bed ; the sound of the
cars had set me looking for cover, even
before I woke.
* * * *
“Chev.”: Australia possesses a shrine —
the glass case at the National Museum in
Melbourne wherein stands Phar Lap,
“Sandy took me to the pictures last night.”
“Go on? Were they good pictures ?”
“Don’t know—all the ninepenny seats were gone before we got there.”
greatest of horses, in his habit as he lived.
Signs of a pilgrimage or had] to this
holy spot becoming an annual affair are
already evident. During the Cup
season the usual stream of visitors was
swelled to a remarkable extent. The
awed, hushed voices of the pilgrims, as
they gazed through the glass, told then-
own tale. The man who knew the trainer,
or knew the jockey, or knew and had
touched Phar Lap himself was gazed on
with something approaching reverence.
Then there is the mystery of the animal’s
death on a foreign shore. A contributory
factor to a future legend that Phar Lap
still lives, emerging from his case at
night-time for a gallop on the tan, is the
fact that the taxidermist did his job to
perfection. Artists and sculptors are un-
able to fault it anywhere. I heard a small
boy ask his mother, quite genuinely,
when they took the horse out for a drink.
* # * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide Public Library,
which does not lend books, has a very
small percentage of thefts. But a dozen
or more missing volumes were recently
recovered rather luckily. A boarding-
house in the city reported nine of them
as being among the effects of a lodger
just dead ; they were all on monetary
systems and the like. When the incident
appeared in the papers another unofficial
borrower became thoughtful and left his
booty on the library doorstep by night.
* * * *
“Addis Ababa”: History repeated itself
in Jerusalem the other day, after a con-
siderable interval, when the Empress
of Ethiopia (or Abyssinia) arrived with
a large suite to visit the Holy Places. The
lady’s name is Ouizero Menen, and she
is the wife of Haile Selassie, Emperor of
Ethiopia, King of Kings. She is the first
Ethiopian royalty to set foot in the Holy
City since Balkis, Queen of Sheba, paid
her visit to King Solomon, as may be
seen in an excellent example of the sign-
board school of art which hangs in
Sydney Art Gallery. The High
Commissioner had to play the role of
Solomon on this occasion.
* * * *
“Jungor”: No white man had been sen-
tenced to death in the Northern Terri-
tory for over 40 years until last week.
It was what the French call a crime of
passion, with' a half-caste girl in the
background of the picture, and it might
have been that sort of wild justice which
French juries invariably (and English
juries mostly) view leniently but for the
fact that the accused, firing through a
locked door, shot the wrong man, a
friend instead of a successful rival. The
Judge told the jury that if A. intend-
ing to kill B, shoots C without the least
intending it, he is just as guilty of mur-
der as if he had killed B —which of
course is sound law, though sound law
doesn’t always go down with juries. In
Queensland and Westralia, which recog-
nise degrees in murder, the condemned
man would have been in no danger of
suffering the extreme penalty, but in the
Territory apparently English law, which
“treats all unlawful killing not reducible
to manslaughter as of the same degree
of guilt,” still holds good. None the less,
the sentence is quite certain to be com-
muted to a term of imprisonment.
* * * *
“X.S.”: He was to meet his best girl
at 11.30 on Saturday morning in Collins-
street regarding their joint operations on
the turf. The previous night she dreamt
that a rank outsider, Kafoofle, was going
to win the Golden Plate. She rushed
into the city, drew five shillings of her
hard-earned savings from the bank
and repaired to the rendezvous —half
an hour late. The young man was
furious ; they had an unseemly wrangle,
but he didn’t refuse to take her wretched
dollar. Going out to Flemington he had
a dreary and unprofitable day—so un-
profitable that he didn’t back anything
for the Golden Plate or even take par-
ticular notice of the race. He was
startled when Kafoofle’s number went up
first; dazed when the tote announced
the div.—£l2. And now she says if he
doesn’t pay her the £l2 she’ll never speak
to him again.
“Selma”: Sauntering down to the ferry
I heard feminine voices in fierce
altercation coming from the mansion on
the waterfront, and gathered from the
accusations of meanness and unpleasant-
ness on the one side and the summary of
domestic misdeeds on the other that it
was the usual mistress-and-maid up-
heaval. Then a large woman, panting
and scarlet, dashed from the gate and
humped a heavy suitcase down the steps
to the jetty, while the banging of doors
announced that the matter was also con-
cluded at the other end. I related these
happenings to a friend on the boat. “Oh,”
said she, “that was just Mrs. Smith-Jones
sacking her cook. She does it once a
month, but it means nothing. Cook
will be back to-night.” That evening I
sat opposite to the large woman with the
suitcase, who was telling an interested
listener she had been 25 years in her
present situation, and couldn’t find a
better mistress anywhere. She humped
the luggage up the steps ahead of me,
and turned in at the gate from which I
had seen her emerge in fury that morning.
Looking back I beheld her in cheerful
conversation with a tall woman in gar-
dening gloves, doubtless discussing the
details of dinner.
WE DON’T OBJECT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Lyons said that Federal members did not
object to press criticism, but only to abuse and
misrepresentation.”
We don’t object, we Canberra chaps,
Howe’er the public chuckles,
To gentle digs and playful raps
About the ribs or knuckles.
No criticism fair can draw
Our wrath or raise our dander;
So when we’re touched upon the raw
You know for sure it’s slander.
We don’t object, when once our frames
In these high halls we anchor,
To calling one another natfies
Might rouse a navvy’s rancor.
The vilest motives some impute
By bushels —how deny it?
It’s on the other foot, the boot,
When you outsiders try it.
We don’t object, we Treasury birds,
We never moult a feather,
When papers rain their rudest words
On all the Outs together.
The scorn that our opponents hurts
We never find upsetting;
It’s obvious their plain deserts,
And nothing more, they’re getting.
They don’t object—not much, I guess—
The Opposition section,
To all the pepper from the press
That (lies in our direction.
And when of twisters, fools, or both,
We’re labelled the quintessence,
They merely nod and growl “My oath!”
In fervent acquiescence.
We don’t object to gibes and flouts
And jeers, however hearty,
Not when they’re slung at Ins or Outs,
At one or t’other party.
But when they’re hurled at both alike
By pens with truth that tweedle,
The blandest bloke may get the spike,
The calmest cove the needle.
We don’t object, we M.H.Rs.,
Don’t think it for a moment,
To playful prods and gentle jars;
We welcome honest comment.
But when we roar and raise a din,
’Tis proof—no need to doubt us—
That things to pierce the toughest skin
Are being noised about us.
N.S.W.
T. THE. R.


“Leadsmith”: A chemist friend of
mine who lives over his shop so as to
attend to the night business answered a
ring about one o’clock the other morn-
ing. On the mat was a taxi-driver who
said he had been sent from a remote
Sydney suburb by Mrs. Blanque-Dasshe,
a regular customer of the pill-roller, for
a large bottle of shampoo. Wondering
at the extraordinary request at such a
time, my friend rang up Mrs. 8.-D. for
confirmation. With some asperity she
said everything was O.K. “You see,”
she added, “I have to take Fluffkins to
see the doctor to-morrow at 11 and I
HOUSE-AGENT (as final argument ): “And it’s just five minutes from the cats’
home.”
want her to look her best; that means
using the shampoo first thing in the
morning.” Fluffkins is a pom.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Most theatres can tell
tales of unrehearsed effects, but the old
Royal in Melbourne, now to be demol-
ished, had more than its share. There
was the occasion when Bland Holt
staged a replica of the Cup race and the
favorite fell off the revolving stage.
Another was when the theatre cat sat on
the “flames” of a drawing-room fire and
stayed there for the remainder of the act.
Still another was when Allan Doone, at
a charity matinee, insisted on providing
what was in those days —the war years—
a striking novelty by attempting to change
the wheel of a motor-car in record time ;
the jack went through the floor, and the
endeavors to get the vehicle off the stage
filled the auditorium with dense clouds
of smoke, which stayed there till the end.
When Guy Bates Post staged “The Bad
Man” the safety curtain was,lowered dur-
ing the first interval and thereafter re-
fused to go up. The audience got its
money back. The Royal has seen some
dreadful tragedies, such as the death of
Mimi, the murder of Scarpia and “East
Lynne,” but the most direful happening
was when a very well-known actor
snorted his false teeth out in the middle
of a poignant speech. It says something
for the delicacy of the newspapers that
no mention was made by them of the
incident.
“General Prac.”: All these pars, about
the examination of motorists suspected
of taking a couple too many remind me
of a curious case heard in London quite
recently. A driver, while in thick traffic,
hit three moving vehicles and a stationary
van, and finished up on the pavement.
He was arrested in a dazed state, and
things looked pretty black until a police
surgeon discovered that the poor chap
was a diabetic who had accidentally
given himself an overdose of insulin.
The incident ended with the suspension
of the patient’s license for five years ;
but a kindly Bench said that he might
try his luck again in six months if certi-
fied medically fit.
* *• Jk
“Jem”: Live-wire salesmanship? Early
last month I advertised in a Perth news-
paper the birth of my son. I got the
usual flood of perambulator pamphlets,
insurance circulars and so on, but a more
startling communication arrived within
the fortnight. It was a 12-page birth-
control pamphlet, beginning with quota-
tions from the report of the Lambeth
conference of Anglican bishops in 1930
and ending with a number of testimonials
to the efficacy of a certain brand of
contraceptive.
3k 3}: :Jc
“General Prac.”: I’d often seen him,
the little erect old man who lodged oppo-
site, over the cash-and-carry store, wash-
ing his clothes and cooking his meals in
the upstairs room. An old soldier, the
neighbors said, and he looked one, spruCe
but tremulous, getting across the street
while the traffic buzzed past him. Yes-
terday afternoon the grocer’s boy rang
furiously at my bell. “The old
man over our shop—he looks funny.
He’s had a turn.” I crossed the street,
climbed the stairs and found him, pale
and trembling, in a crazy armchair.
“Who are you, sir?” he quavered. “If
you’re a doctor your visit is needless.
I’m feeling perfectly well!” “That’s all
right,” I said. “Some friend of yours
asked me to drop in. He seemed to think
you’d been a little under the weather
lately. Perhaps I can do something!”
“And perhaps you can’t, sir,” the old
“I hear she’s marrying beneath her.”
“So she is—he works in the basement”
man said in a whisper. “I’m ninety-five.
I’ve had my innings. I was with Gari-
baldi outside Rome in '6l as an artillery
officer. Trained and fired the first breech-
loader in that action. Went through
the Franco-Prussian business, too —
French side, of course. But I’m boring
you ; come in some day for a chat if
you’ve time to spare. I haven’t your fee
about me now, but it will be forthcom-
ing in short order. Thank you for your
visit, sir.” Last night—well, I was too
late.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: The decrepit tin-shed
which leans up against the Elizabeth-
street post-office in Melbourne is the
latest target for poor old “Pro Bono
Publico.” Almost daily it is described
as a national menace, a crime against
Melbourne’s civic pride and dignity, a
moral blot on an otherwise fair land-
scape, a foul Federal plot against State
prestige, an offence to the aesthetic
soul of the southern city, a cosmic night-
mare, and so on. Actually it is not as
ugly as some of the modern buildings
recently erected. One result of the pro-
paganda has been that the department
has been inundated with challenges to
prove its title to the tin-shed allotment.
One old lady, aged 80, writes from Eng-
land to say her father bought the block at
the beginning of last century— i.e., before
Melbourne was founded. She is sure
it is the same block because as a child
she remembers him talking about
“Elizabeth.”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Melbourne gutters ran
champagne the other morning. Nobody
rushed to wallow in the flood, though a
number of persons stood sadly by. It
wasn’t a dress rehearsal for the cen-
tenary —merely 672 bottles of imported
tipple that had been condemned by the
Customs authorities.
* H= * *
“The Antiquary”: Unless the depresh
has laid it low, the Worshipful Com-
pany of Loriners (B. l/11/’33) still sur-
vives. The makers of bits and bridles,
which is a more accurate definition of
“loriners” than harness-makers, were in-
corporated in 1711, and they rank 57th
on the list of 100 city companies. Close
on 80 of these old-time guilds are still
on deck —officially, at any rate —but only
the great city cos., such as the goldsmiths,
continue to exercise active supervision
over trade. Mainly because of charities
and trusts, the bowyers (bowmakers),
fletchers (arrow makers) and horners
(workers in horn) are not yet extinct,
though it’s always been a mystery to me
as to whence they draw their members —
if they have any.
* * * *
“G. 8.”: Another Napoleonic relic is
claimed to have found a resting place in
this country ; a paragraph has been going
the rounds that Dr. Watson, of Canberra,
possesses a breastplate worn by Napo-
leon in Egypt. It is asserted that
Napoleon wore it as honorary colonel
of Cuirassiers, and that, as Emperor,
he would be honorary colonel of
all regiments. There is something wrong
here. Napoleon was not Emperor
during the Egyptian campaign but plain
General Bonaparte, who invariably wore
the green chasseur or “Guides” uniform.
There were no Cuirassier regiments in
Egypt, or indeed in the whole French
army until 1802, when the sth, 6th and
7th Chasseurs were converted into
Cuirassiers. Moreover, since General
Bonaparte specially relieved his soldiers
in Egypt of part of their equipment, on
account of the distressing heat, it seems
exceedingly unlikely that he should have
burdened himself with a heavy, uncom-
fortable metal breastplate.
* <= * *
“Nakh”: The latest “solution” of the
economic problem comes from the U.S.A.
One Mrs. Prestonia Martin, the septua-
genarian wife of a college professor,
proposes to conscript the youth of the
nation and set them to work pro-
ducing necessaries until they are 26,
when they will be permitted to loaf, the
next generation of youth having been
grabbed and put to work to produce the
goods. If they don’t want to loaf they
can work for such luxuries as motor-cars,
fur coats and caviare. This typically
American idea that the purpose of life is
fur coats and caviare is the materialis-
tic foundation to all the windy idealism
of the Soviets. If Mrs. Martin’s scheme
were put into operation and worked it
would create the first completely neuras-
thenic society in history. The forma-
tive period in the individual’s life would
be spent in monotonous and meaningless
jobs in factories, and the other half in
rushing round to night clubs and cabarets.
The hospitals, rest homes and lunatic
asylums would be full of people too old
at 26, and the gaols of individuals whom
boredom had driven to all sorts of
crimes.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Another veteran with a dis-
tinguished record has just passed out in
England. Locomotive 2717, belonging to
the London, Midland and Scottish, was
one of those commandeered for war pur-
poses ; with 77 others it was sent across
to France. It had the distinction of being
the only British engine captured by the
Germans, who took it at Cambrai, where
it remained in No Man’s Land for some
time, utilised as a machine-gun post by
the enemy. The retreat of the British
line in 1918 inspired the Germans to
patch up the engine and put it into rail-
way action again. The British recap-
tured it in the final rush ; and the battle-
scarred veteran drew the first troop train
from Mons to the German frontier. The
engine was nearly forty years old then ;
but, with a record of its war service ex-
hibited on a brass plate, it returned to
duty with its old company, drawing
freight trains. Now it goes to a museum.
THE DIEHARDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“North and South Carolina are the only two
United States to vote for the continuance of Prohi-
bition.”
King Bacchus is back! He returns to his own
In the Land of the Vehement Eagle,
And never a monarch, restored to the throne,
Has met with a welcome so regal.
They booted him out with hilarious cheers,
They thought to proscribe and to rout him;
But wisdom has come in the course of the years
And they’ve found they can’t manage with-
out him.
So he’s back with his cocktails and highballs
and fizz,
His brandies and beers and his vina.
His sway’s re-asserted —excepting, that is,
In North and in South Carolina.
They’re still a bit glum
At the mention of rum
In North and in South Carolina.
Seems strange that he shouldn’t have carried
the States
Where a Governor, for custom a sticker,
Reminded another (so history relates)
That time travelled slow between liquor.
There are pseans of gladness from Texas to
Maine;
Fierce thirsts with dclat and bravado
Are openly slaked, now it’s legal again,
From Wyoming to parched Colorado.
The bootlegger’s visage is gloomy and grave,
For no longer he’s paid to consign a
Fat package of grog surreptitiously—save
In North and in South Carolina.
They’re still a bit shy
Of yielding to rye
In North and in South Carolina.
You may drive Nature out with a pitchfork, you
know,
But you’ll never prevent her returning ;
A truth from the Latin that Unde was slow,
But at last has succeeded, in learning,
And the end of it is that King Bacchus is back,
From Hollywood east to Hoboken,
And Pussyfoot Johnson has gone to the pack
And the fetich of Volstead is broken.
There’s Scotch in the bottle and moonshine in
jar
For millionaire and for Dinah,
From lordly New York to plantations afar,
From Louisiana to Oregon—bar
In North and in South Carolina.
No longer it pips
How long’s between nips
In North and in South Carolina.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Never let smoking give
you a sore throat
CRAVENA
in tm neu> mciAtuhe-pboo’f
CELLOPHANE'PACK
20 for 1/6
■
mm
POLITICAL POINTS
Blakeley, M.H.R., suggests that “more
fiction should be provided” in the Par-
liamentary library at Canberra. But
surely enough is provided on the floor of
the House.
Arthur Griffith to The Bulletin:
I don’t know what all this fuss is about.
From indications so far, it seems we shall get
as good a Legislative Council as money can
buy.
A dart has been thrown at N.S.W.
Judge Curlewis, that stickler for precise
English, and by a learned brother, too:
Scathing reference was made by Justice
Cantor to an award of former Arbitration Court
Judge Curlewis. “Badly worded,” “somewhat
extraordinary” and “difficult to understand”
were some of the expressions used.
It’s at moments like these that one needs
Hitlers.
- N. S. Wales, Queensland and West-
ralia have had Assemblywomen ; West-
ralia, indeed, has had two, and, though
in the other three instances the ladies
were not re-elected, Miss Holman, For-
rest’s M.L.A., looks a fixture. Now Alec
Peacock’s widow is to enter Vic. Assembly
as M.L.A. for Allandale, her husband’s
constituency for so many years; in a
poll of 9000-odd votes she beat the
Labor man, McAdam, by 1500-odd.
Her sex could not have chosen a
worthier pioneer.
Warrnambool has administered a dread-
ful shock to the Vic. A.L.P. bosses who
expelled Harry Bailey. With 150 primary
votes to be counted in the by-election
for the Assembly seat, Bailey was
first, with 3702, and Gill, the A.L.P.
nominee, last, with 1536. Had Labor
let bygones be bygones and put all its
weight behind Bailey, he would have
been a certainty ; as it was, McGarvie
(U.A.P.) had 3004 primaries and Glas-
gow (U.C.P.) 2434 ; so on Monday the
result was in doubt.
Poor old Gandhi has been slipping for
some time, and last week, reaching Nag-
pur on a political tour, he was hooted
and pelted with eggs. It is the sort of
thing that comes to the greatest. Napoleon
found that out at Waterloo and another
celebrity at Warwick.
China and Russia are negotiating a
non-aggression pact. When non-aggres-
sion pacts are concluded it means that
aggression is expected, contemplated or
feared ; in other words, it means war.
But the dishevelled Celestial republic
isn’t much of an ally. Before the Soviets
would venture on a second bout with
Japan they would have to be friends with
Uncle Sam. They are trying hard, but
Uncle doesn’t seem to be so keen as he
was a week or two ago.
There are to be some fine pickings out
of the extra sustenance funds distributed
by Westralian Labor. Before a man
can get a job he must join a union and
dub up 255. or so. The Mitchell Gov-
ernment imposed no conditions ; but then
it was capitalist. A union controlling
country workers is going to augment its
funds to the tune of over £7OOO for the
year. And over a thousand men have
been restored to the deficit-ridden rail-
ways since April.
By 44 votes to eight Vic. Assembly
passed the third reading of the Transport
Bill. At the beginning of October it
seemed in the highest degree unlikely that
the measure would be passed, but nego-
tiations between the Ministry and the
Cockies levelled barriers. The diehards
were Angus, Dillon, Everard, Holden and
Knox (U.A.P.) and Allnutt, Coyle and
Hyland (Cockies).
Maoriland started off its financial year
expecting a deficit of £4,500,000 ; it finds
now that it under-estimated revenue, and
the latest forecast is for a debit balance
of a shade over £2,000,000. Better prices
for butter, wool and meat account for the
changed outlook. The Government pro-
poses no further increases in taxation;
it has got to the stage where more taxes
would kill the goose. Every year since
the slump Parliament has invented fresh
imposts and revenue has gone up from
£19,471,131 in 1929-30 to £19,703,703 in
1932-33 ; the estimate for 1933-34 is
£16,214,000. This in a country which at
the nadir of the depression had half the
income it enjoyed in 1928.
Latham will be back at Canberra this
week. He has been away too long. It
would be interesting to have his candid
opinion of the salary grab and of the
circumstances in which it was consum-
mated, and also of the idiotic proceed-
ings to assert the dignity of Parlia-
ment, which the printer and publisher
“Yes, you ARE improving the place. I’ll have to increase your rent.”
of a Sydney Sunday newspaper were
hastily declared to have outraged. It is
now feebly contended that the alleged
contempt has been purged, three minor
directors of the newspaper co. having
met a Minister in Sydney and said they
were sorry. The dour Attorney-General
has his critics, but he has never made
himself look cheap, in Parliament or in
his department.
Now that Victoria is to have a woman
in its Assembly, the Vic. Housewives’
Association may be encouraged to have
a shot at politics. It has 30,000 mem-
bers and is a thorn in the side of
Government where its domestic interests
are concerned. It helped to have a half-
penny taken off the price of sugar, and
it harries the authorities on the subject
of pure milk and the profits of millers
and bakers. Its members get 10 to 20
p.c. off goods bought at shops, and ocu-
lists and doctors give them discount for
services rendered ; it also teaches women
how to look after their babies and their
husbands. Hitherto the association has
eschewed politics, but it might easily
become a power if the ban were removed.
The Beasley group keeps on prodding
the Commonwealth Government to do
something about the heavily-subsidised
Matson Line, without ever explaining
what it can do. The matter was raised
at the World Economic Conference, with
the result that the U.S.A. delegate bluntly
declared that his country was going to
have a merchant marine, and that was
all about it. It obviously needs one as an
adjunct to its navy, and it is getting one
to some purpose—ll,ooo,ooo tons of mer-
chant shipping now and only 2,000,000
tons before the war. Uncle has given
his ships a monopoly of his coastal trade
and stretched the interpretation of
“coastal” to include outlying possessions
(places like Honolulu and Manila); but,
with the enthusiastic approval of people
like Beasley, Australia did much the
same.
Uncle is always ready to consider a
“proposition.” If it were represented to
him by Australia and M.L. that, so long
as the balance of trade with both coun-
tries remains heavily in his favor, they
may be obliged, in order to secure
equality of shipping advantages, to com-
pel his subsidised steamers to pay spe-
cial port dues, he would very likely
listen to reason.
Papuan officials do not get much in
the way of pension for their health-
destroying job when their service is
finished—what they do draw is paid
from a superannuation fund to which
they have contributed. There is an asso-
ciation of them in N. S. Wales ; it is
asking Marr, the Minister for Terri-
tories, to try to prevent so much State
unemployed-relief tax being deducted
from their pay-envelopes. They claim
that as Commonwealth officers they
should be taxed 4d. to 6d. in the £, as
Commonwealth employees and politi-
cians are, and not on the higher State
basis.
Macquarie-street politicians are not
alone in being tenderfooted on the sub-
ject of divorce laws. The Common-
wealth Government was invited to intro-
duce a uniform enactment. Latham,
with the air of a man standing on a very
hot brick, replied that “the question
would be highly controversial” and that
“there would hardly be time this session
to deal with it.” But he made an offer
which he evidently thought handsome ;
if all the States asked for Federal action
they would get it. The recent Sydney
experience suggests they are never likely
to do so. But why should the Common-
wealth want to be asked, seeing that it
has had the power to pass marriage and
divorce laws since it was established?
It was perhaps characteristic that the
House of Reps, should discuss ways and
means of cutting down the cost of Parlia-
ment immediately after adding £9765
p.a. to it per medium of the salary grab.
A report prepared by an inconvenient
reformer in the Public Service Commis-
sioner’s office was introduced by the
Speaker with the chilling remark that
“no substantial savings could be made
without curtailing the privileges enjoyed
by members.” Contributors to a very
languid debate showed no inclination
whatever to curtail their privileges. Some
of them mentioned that they would like
more. Then, it being Friday afternoon,
they and the Senators —all except the
few who prefer to stay in ’Berra and see
the magpies pounce on golf balls—hur-
ried away to travel to Sydney on their
gold passes. That is a privilege they will
never relinquish.
Federal figures show that there were
2218 bankruptcies in the Commonwealth
in 1932-33, against 4633 the previous year.
The figure is almost back to normal—it
was 2143 in 1928-29. Farmers headed the
list with 416 ; then came miscellaneous
commercial men, grocers, laborers,
dealers and hawkers and motor sales-
men. No politicians figured in the list.
For the second time—once as a Labor-
ite and now as a Coalitionist—Vic.
Works Minister Jones has blocked Kew
Council from grabbing residential land
in Cotham-road for a new Town Hall
site. The council’s first choice was the
home of the Carnegies alongside the
public gardens ; then it coveted property
nearly opposite, on which several villas
and cottages stand. The home sentiment
expressed by those who objected to be
dispossessed appealed strongly to Jones,
who has a substantial roost of his own in
Kew. The council’s present modest but
central seat it bought for £645 out of
bridge-toll savings in its borough days.
“T.P.”: Vic. teacher-pensioners who
were in collar before 1881 and filled their
jobs for 50 years or more bore their
financial-emergency reductions uncom-
plainingly, even when State members
refused to accept a like reduction. The
last straw for the ancients is the Federal
percentage grab. From all branches of
the service there are now little more than
250 of these veterans, and each month
sees one or more pass out.


Wire the wool exchamge
AMD SELL THE SEATS .
GET THE F 2 £*.S TO mavcE
THE SELECTION .
Or have a gold Rass
race
A Kirscq of= Macquarie Street
COMPETITION HA.S POSSIBILITIES
©UT PERHAPS THE e>*=S>T WAV
WOULD BE TO LST THEM VNIN THEIR,
SEATS OH THE FRUIT M^CHiHE.
A mKINC, MATCH SUC,qESTS TTSEU.F
PROPOSED ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF ELECTING N.S.W. LEG. COUNCILLORS.


/•*»% { ;B
O Q' l ~
,<;r f V Si ■ I
&S?T$
SHELL
u\
I
hi*
5®
f/
'Jy)
AC?
rg
nu
!:!
/
s3S
Ire heard all that before
blit ‘...l'm back on
SHELL
nfie Qualify fpirif-of Australia .. and ofthe World.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Two graduates of our Naval College,
Ferguson Stewart and Strangman, came
first and second in this year’s navigation
examination at Calshot (Eng.), where they
are serving with temporary British com-
missions. Australia will, of course, lose
them, as their success assures them of per-
manent British service jobs.
Alex. Jobson, who died suddenly the
other day, at 58, was one of Sydney’s
leading accountants, a man to whom all
sorts of people turned for expert advice.
He was a son of Clunes (Vic.) and made
soldiering his hobby. First commissioned
in the Victorian Military Forces in 1899,
he served in the Great War as brigadier-
general commanding the 9th Infantry
Brigade, 1916-17, and came home with
a D.S.O. and mentions in dispatches. In
1932 he became deputy chairman of the
A.M.P., and was a director of Noyes
Bros, and of other leading firms. His
“Monthly Investment Digest” and his
“Digest Year Book” were standard works.
Canberra got its oldest inhabitant ready-
made, for old Bill Schmitt, whose hun-
dredth birthday will be proclaimed
directly he likes to announce it, was an
ancient of the place even before the habit
of planting foundation stones there had
started. The old chap’s shack and garden
have been allowed to stand —they edge on
the Canberra golf course. His main occu-
pations are growing vegetables and mak-
ing disparaging remarks about politicians.
For 26 years after he retired from the
Speck’s Government service, Henry James
Cox, who celebrated his 96th birthday in
Hobart last week, was librarian of the
Southern Tasmanian Law Society, a posi-
tion from which he resigned only three
years ago. Cox was born in Middle-
sex, England, and came to Tasmania as
a youth. For 38 years he was compositor,
and later reader, in the Government
Printing Office. In his old age he has
H. J. COX, a well-known Tasmanian,
who has just celebrated his 96th
birthday.
taken an active interest in sporting and
public affairs, has been a constant con-
tributor to the press on public questions,
and an ardent Rechabite and churchman.
On behalf of the teetotal organisation he
made presentations to both the late
Duke of Edinburgh when he was here in
1867 and the Prince of Wales in 1920.
He prizes among many valuable posses-
sions a letter of thanks he received
from the Prince.
Edgar Ritchard, whose designs for the
sixteenth-century settings in “Night’s
Candles,” a successful show at the
Queen’s, London, have been praised by
the critics, is a young Sydney artist and
a brother of Cyril, of musical comedy
fame. Edgar left Sydney in 1929 to
study at the Chelsea Polytechnic and
Slade wSchools.
Bishop Stephen’s first name is Reginald,
and he hails from Geelong, where he was
partly educated, the job being finished
at Trinity College in Melbourne Univer-
sity. He was born to be a Doctor of
Divinity. An exhibitioner in natural
science, a scholar in history and political
economy, a first-
class honors man
and Bromby
prize-holder both
in Greek and
Hebrew, he
reached the sub-
war d e nship of
Trinity after wan-
dering from one
Melbourne church
to another for
some years. Then
he became War-
den of St. John’s
and a Canon of
St. Paul’s, and
for four years
was Dean of Mel-
bourne. He had
five years as
Bishop of Tas-
mania, then nine
years as Bishop
of Newcastle. In
the end he re-
turned to Mel-
bourne, and be-
came acting-
Warden of Trinity
in 1930. The
bishop once wrote
REGINALD
STEPHEN, D.D., for-
merly Bishop of Tas-
mania and Newcastle.
a book called “Democracy and Charac-
ter.” He has a mind with a keen edge,
and his outlook was tolerant enough to
satisfy even a coal-mining flock.
Few men had more interesting recol-
lections of Australian life than old Robert
Armour, of Cobbity (N.S.W.), who died
the other day at the age of 88. Bob was
one of Australia’s greatest horsemen, and
by means of horse-breaking and brumby-
running earned a lucrative living when
a young man. In 1869 he made an epic
trip from Camden to Rockhampton.
Singlehanded he successfully travelled 70
horses to the city of sweat and sorrow.
He was on the road for six months.
Bert Wilkinson, newly appointed deputy
repatriation commissioner in Queensland,
went away with the first lot of Diggers
in the sth Battalion ; he was wounded
at the Landing. He is the first ex-private
to hold a deputy-commissionership in the
department.
Dr. G. Paul, who has been appointed
Health Officer to Brisbane City Council,
is a Yorkshire native, but has spent most
of his life in Australia. Brisbane Grammar
School boy, matriculated at Sydney Uni-
versity, and went to London for R. C.
Surgeon’s diploma. He gained his M.D.
at Brussels Uni. Subsequently he re-
furned to Brisbane, where he has prac-
tised ever since.
It is appropriate that Bill Cuthbertson,
g.m. of Newcastle Steam, should be
a native of Newcastle, where he was
born 68 years ago. He graduated from
quill-driving for the old Newcastle S. S.
Co. to the charge of the cashbox.
Then he assisted in the amalgamation of
the company with the Hunter River New
S. N. Co. and carried on as accountant.
He became traffic super, in 1901 and, in
1913, g.m. He did splendid shipping
and patriotic work during the Great War.
The Royal Shipwreck Relief Society and
the Rawson Institute count him among
their most energetic members.
O. C. Roberts, recently killed in a motor
smash, was the most successful prickly-
pear killer before Cactoblastis arrived.
His arsenious preparations are still used
for cleaning up regrowth. It was said
that the idea of using poison gas in war
originated with German chemists em-
ployed at Dulacca, where he operated.
They left the experimental stations in
Queensland in 1914, and the first clouds
of gas which struck the British lines were
similar in nature to the preparations
which Roberts was at that time using.
Roberts was a tall, gentle American who
had a host of friends.
If J. G. Latham decides to retire from
politics to resume private practice and
R. G. Menzies takes his place, as it is
being suggested that he will, the results
of the change should be interesting.
Latham is a seemingly cold common- and
commercial-law man. He loves an
equable court debate on legal problems
rather than a political fight, and he has
no real appetite for leadership. If Men-
zies, who sits in the Vic. State House for
Lowan and is Attorney-General, goes
over to Canberra the odds will be on him
as a future Prime Minister. He is still
on the right side of 40, and Australia has
scarcely his equal either as a counsel or
as a political speaker. He was called
to the Bar after the war and became a
K.C. 11 years later.
W. J. (“Bill”) Millner has gone to
offer his engineering and surveying ex-
perience on the other side of the Styx, at
the age of 79. A good bit of Sydney’s
history went with the simple, honest,
clear-headed S. Australian, for he it was
who laid out the first city railway and
Centennial Park. When president of the
Water and Sewerage Board he seemed
to know every man in his department
from the pick-and-shovel and under-
ground workers to the clerical staff, who,
to a man, had a deep affection for him.
Three of his sons served during the war:
Jim died as a result of war service ; Tom,
the eldest, attained the rank of lieut.-
colonel and at the end of the scrap
was D.A.Q.M.S. to the Ist Division; he
took Septimus Power around the
lines when Power did his sketches for the
British Army. He is now general manager
and director of Allen Liveridge (Aust.),
Ltd. Billie served with the engineers
and is on the staff of the M. W. and S. B.
A string of letters —one set for every
decade of his age—streams out behind the
name of Dr. E. Angas Johnson, of Adel-
aide, who surely established a record by
being educated at six universities —Adel-
aide and Melbourne, Gottingen, Paris,
Cambridge and the Tropical School of
Medicine in London. He takes a very
active part in public affairs in Adelaide,
Dr. E. ANGAS JOHNSON, Adelaide’s
Metropolitan Health Officer.
and acquired his figure during 21 years
as a city councillor. He is Metropolitan
Health Officer, and one of the governors
of the Botanical Gardens. His collec-
tion of historical relics is famous.
Many King’s School boys scattered
through Australia will recognise the
slightly sardonic face of H. E. Britten on
this page. He has been senior master at
King's for 13 years and housemaster of
Macarthur House for 23 years. He is
H. E. BRITTEN, old-time inter-State
Rugby player, who is senior master
at King’s School.
himself an old boy of the years of tradi-
tion when G. F. Macarthur ruled, and in
his time was an inter-State footballer
of more than ordinary tonnage. He re-
tires at the end of this year. The school
motto —Fortiter et fideliter —well describes
his character.
J. W. Sutton, Acting Deputy Director
of Posts and Telegraphs in Queensland
has been appointed Supt. Engineer,
N.S.W. He will begin his new duties
this month. Sutton’s father was principal
of the old firm of ironfounders and ship-
builders, Kangaroo Point, Brisbane. He
is an old Ipswich Grammar School boy.
Old hands will remember John
Candlish, the friend of “Plumper”
Hoolan, M.L.A., who keeps store after
50 years in Georgetown (N.Q.). A
strong character,, with an optimism which
led him into many a flotation, he is still
putting his money into shafts. Hoolan’s
best story of him was about the man
who protested that a packet of needles
was too dear. “Too dear!” yelled the
indignant storekeeper. “Man, don’t you
know that freight on needles is £3O a ton
here! ”
George Cochrane, otherwise Grant
Hervey, has passed out in Melbourne.
He was one of the most extraordinary
characters Australia has produced. The
son of a blacksmith, he had a fervent
faith in Australia and expressed it in
ringing verse. But there was an irre-
sponsible streak in him, and he fell on
evil days. Once he was tarred and
feathered at Mildura. He sold the pic-
tures of himself tarred and cleansed to
an Adelaide soap manufacturer as an
advertisement. On a subsequent occa-
sion he posed as a philanthropist in
such guise as to persuade a highly re-
spectable lawyer to lead him to Tom
Bavin, then N.S.W. Premier, and Bavin
to give him a sort of semi-official status
while he acted as a mediator between
striking coal men and the colliery pro-
prietors. His letters to the more staid
section of the press on the need for com-
promise were masterpieces, but they were
eclipsed by the prose uttered by Weaver,
Minister for Mines, when he found out
who the peacemaker was.


m
iT)
r.
•
•••••'•
3
v.
w
0
as
&
□
□
□
□
cstf
C\ G
rr o \>a cC
At#** 1 *
Gw*
tatv
\ee c
Co
,\ 0 ut e
d <- at
te ate
lags
CP
J <sss
O®"
\l'
ol
M
e» vi
bB n>» ! po ;:^' 0 '
VV .- a VtV' a oftc®
•'^ a tf tYve^ e - ce .
« W * M» l “" ,P
re >"■' "
'O *«** wO .
* n ft^ euesv
**sss£!*
*•> -
, iv e^ A - vrvrgtf*'- 0
aW’ eS
toW C °
T e S> a »^ ,,e,^»
0" V H
ov.'V
**>
cXI % „VveS- w t
°'' 4 va' a eve'V ¥ a< *
fat
s » te
, „, oS et
64- 0,3 **J
e>:
\o^
ao
o*
-T \V^*
CO^V^
MJ.O-
\G^
G
eu
\N
CP
•to


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.*
Sept., ’24. .324,978 10 p.c. = 243,750 81,228 1,234,708
Mar., ’25. .435,676 12* „ ~ 304,688 130,987 1,365,695
Sept., ’25. .404,628 12j „ ~ 304,688 99,940 1,465,635
Mar., ’26. .396,104 12£ „ ~ 304,687 91,417 1,557,053
Sept., ’26. .408,444 12* ~ ~ 304,688 103,756 1,660,809
Mar., ’27. .424,353 12* „ „ 304,087 119,666 1,780,475
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 . . 805,475
Sept., ’27. .476,516 12J p.c.=365,625 110,891 910,306
Mar., ’2B. .490,112 12| „ ~ 365,025 124,487 1,040,853
Sept., ’2B. .469,157 12* „ „ 305,025 103,532 1,144,385
Mar., ’29. .507,149 12* „ ~ 305,025 141,524 1,285,909
Sept.,’29. .465,492 12* „ ~ 365,025 99,807 1,385,770
Mar., ’3O. .445,337 12* „ „ 365,625 79,712 1,465,488
Sept.,’3o. .350,727 12* „ „ 365,625 1,450,590
Mar., ’3l. .384,097 12| „ ~ 305,025 18,472 1,409,002
5ept.,’31..373,812 12* „ „ 305,025 8,187 1,477,249
Mar., ’32. .370,509 12* „ ~ 365,625 4,884 1,482,133
Sept., ’32. .370,291 12J „ „ 365,625 4,660 1,486,799
Mar., ’33. .422,123 121 „ „ 365,625 56,498 1,543,297
Sept., ’33. .408,112 12| „ „ 365,625 102,487 1,645,754
"Exclusive of Replacement and Depreciation Fund.
tPeriod covered 12 months. Fiji and Maoriland cos.
in process of liquidation.
The fully-paid £2O shares fetched £62 ss.
in 1928 ; on a weak and very nervous
market the figure dropped to £3O in
1930; it had recovered to £57 a year
later; then, after easing to £54 at the
beginning of this year, it advanced
steadily to £6l 10s. at last week-end. The
recovery has been due largely to the
cheapening of money, to strong competi-
tion for sound securities, and to the im-
provement in declared net earnings. The
return at £6l 10s. is 4 p.c. on a 12£ p.c.
div. basis, and there is nothing in sight
at the moment to suggest that the \2\ p.c.
is likely to be interfered with, notwith- ,
standing that the 1934 crop in Fiji
promises to be lighter.
What a sweet thing it has been for
shareholders is plain from the fact that,
in addition to an uninterrupted run of
\2\ p.c. distributions, they received no
less than £7,325,000 of bonus scrip, raising
paid capital to £9,750,000, of which
£3,900,000 was returned in cash. The
steadiness of the div. has been due,
amongst other things, to the co.’s contract
with the Queensland Government, the
existence of large visible reserves, and
severe writing down of book values out of
earnings, especially during the years of
high world prices, when the Fiji section
contributed largely to the pool. Thus a
high rate of dividend has become possible
from moderate returns on actual capital
invested —the co.’s refining charges are
amongst the lowest in the world.
Besides returns under the agreement
with the Government (figured at £400,000
net in 1929), there are the profits from
milling in Australia (average £201,000 for
the three years to 1930), from growing
and milling in Fiji (exchange and British
and Canadian preferences are now re-
sponsible for most of the Fiji profit),
from refining in Maoriland and from a
wad of investments outside the business.
The declared net result for the Sept, half
of ’33 was £97,821 better than for the cor-
responding half of ’32. Over the twelve-
month net earnings sprang £149,435,
reaching 15.2 p.c. on capital as against
12.6 p.c. for the previous year. That
was after £221,679 (£58,878 less than for
the previous year) had been dropped into
the depreciation fund, etc., raising it to
£2,952,616, which is probably genuine
profit.
The next table shows the financial
structure at Sept. 30:
Refineries—Australia and Maoriland ..£2,989,615
Sugar mills and plant, etc.—
Commonwealth . . .. .. 2,488,211
Fiji (less £1,625,000 reserve) .. 1,432,522
Ocean steamers . . . . . . .. 142,118
Distillery 132,555
Office premises .. . . .. .. 56,011
Stocks and some book debts .. .. 2,192,370
Other book debts, investments, etc. .. 2,824,964
Cash, deposits, etc. 2,574,195
£14,832,561-
Liabilities—.
Sundry creditors .. ..£777,901
Suspense accounts.. .. 3,180,241
Div. and bonus .. .. 365,625
4,323,767
Net assets .. .. .. .. .£10,508,794
The year’s net addition to the book value
of mills was £213,441 in Fiji and £137,063
in the Commonwealth. To meet the out-
lay, add £42,118 to the steamers item,
and carry an extra £948,708 of sundry
debtors, etc., stocks of sugar and balances
due from the Queensland Government
were reduced by £805,558, cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £281,939, and £68,789
was added to liabilities. The shrinkage
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£3,267,762) was £207,578. That includes
suspense accounts (up £142,874), which
are partly provision for contingencies.
The deed of settlement has been altered
in order to allow the co. to extend its
activities beyond its present sphere and
territory. Exactly what the board has in
mind in this connection has not been
announced.
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1925. . 30-1,950 30 p.c. = 180,000 124,980 902,985
1924.. 736,066 40 „ „ 340,000 396.066 1,299,051
1925.. 939,262 76 „„ 525,000 414.262 1,713,313
1926.. 782.106 95 ~ ~ 665,000 } 100 613 1 813 926
Written off £16,493 5
1927.. 529,038 75 p.c. = 525,000 4,038 1,817,964
1928.. 369,882 40 „,, 280,000 89,882 1,907,846
1929.. 528,646 424',, „ 297,500 231,146 2,138,992
1930.. 275,663 50* „,, 350,000 2,064,655
1931.. 103,571 81 „ „ 61,250 42,321 2,106,976
1932.. 205,752 25 „ „ 175,000 30,752 2,137,728
1933.. 196,565 15 „ „ 105,000 91,565 2,229,293
The co. finished up the year with an
extra 4123 tons of lead on hand, or
32,088 tons in all. The average price of
the metal in London, where most of the
output is sold, was £ll 11s. 6d. as against
£l2 16s. 7d. for the previous term. So,
despite bigger tonnage, better-grade con-
centrates, higher recoveries and lower
costs, there was a contraction of £25,247
in sales plus products on hand (£619,822).
There was a saving of £40,685 in exes.
(£534,841), but returns from the co.’s
£1,169,973 of cash and investments were
£24,625 lighter at £111,584 ( = 3s. 2d.
per share). The net return from all
sources was thus 3s. 7d. per share ; 3s.
of it was distributed. Another Is. 6d.
was sent out this month.
The future of the mine, however, looks
much better than those figures suggest.
Cage haulage through the new shaft, put
down to quicken and cheapen extraction
of crudes from the lower levels at the
northern end of the lode, began on
March 1 from 1850 ft. By the end of
next month this shaft will be equipped
to 2000 ft., and later to 2150 ft., when
skip haulage will begin. Ore reserves
(4,500,000 tons) have increased by 300,000
tons, notwithstanding the year’s extrac-
tions, and a lot more average-grade stone
is known to exist outside the measured
area.
During the year 6388 tons more crudes
was raised at an average of Is. 6.5 d. per
ton less cost, due partly to wage adjust-
ments :
1930. 1932. 1933.
Crudes raised, tons 450,157 306,644 313,032
Mining .. .. 245. 8.2 d. lBs. 10.2 d. 17s. 3.7 d.
Development .. 2s. 2.7 d. 2s. 5.3 d. 2s. 10.3 d.
Milling .. .. 10s. 9.3 d. 9s. 3.3 d. 7s. 10.8 d.
375. 8.2 d. 30s. 6.8 d. 28s. o.Bd.
Milling costs were reduced by Is. 4.5 d.
per ton, too, thanks largely to the new
fine grinding mill and flotation units,
which started up on Nov. 1, 1932. The
new plant can handle 50,000 tons of
crudes monthly.
Milling performances over the last four
years compare as follows:
Ore c Concentrates ~
Treated ( Lead f Zinc 1
Tons. Tons. Assay. Tons. Assay.
1930.. 452,295 94,330 64.0 p.c. 75,910 49.3 p.c.
1931.. 293,069 59,990 72.5 „ 13,730 51.6 „
1932.. 306,052 61,430 73.6 „ 58,140 52.5 „
1933.. 313,782 60,130 74.6 „ 57,746 52.8 „
The outstanding feature is the marked
improvement in the grade of lead con-
centrate. The year’s recoveries were 94.7
p.c. lead, 88.5 p.c. silver and 85.7 p.c.
zinc as against 92.9 p.c. lead, 83.3 p.c.
silver and 76.8 p.c. zinc in 1929.
The year’s outlay on the new mill and
the new shaft added £68,325 (£167,539
in the previous term) to the book value
of the mine and plant (£1,370,044). To
do this and knock £51,599 off the amount
coming to creditors, liquids were drawn
upon for £28,358, leaving the more or
less liquid surplus £23,241 stronger than
at the previous balance:
Assets other than 1928. 1932. 1933.
mine and plant £1,702,970 £1,662,988 £1,634,630
Liabilities .. 132,687 126,980 75,381
Net liquid assets £1,570,283 £1,536,008 £1,559,249
Excluding shares in other cos., mainly
associated enterprises (£801,591), net
liquids were equal to 21s. Bd. per share.
Lead stocks were valued at £l2 10s. per
ton, Australian currency ; last week-end
the metal fetched £ll 15s. in London,
equal to £l4 13s. in Commonwealth
notes. If the cable industry could stage
a comeback, there would not be much
wrong with lead. Other outlets, such as
the building and battery trades, are
moderately active, but Germany seems
determined to produce as much of her
own requirements as she can.
At 87s. the pound shares return 3.4
p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis, or 6.9 p.c.
on a 30 'p.c. distribution, which should
not be beyond the co.’s reach, provided
market and other conditions become no
worse.
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.
r— —Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Sept., Profits. (6$ p.c.) Ord. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £
1926. .191,858 8125 16 p.c. = 83,625 100,108 60,496
1927. .201,194 8125 23 „ ~126,500 66,569 127,065
1928. .219,245 8125 25$ „ ~140,250 70,870 197,935
1929. .265,837 8125 28 ~,,154,000 103,712 301,647
Reserves capitalised (one ord. for two),
£275,000 26,647
1930. .223,578 8125 22 p.c.=156,367 59,086 85 733
1931. .147,934 8125 9„ „ 98,316 41,493 127,226
Added goodwill, £52,000 . . . . 75’226
1932. .191,105 8125 10 p.c.=110,000 72,980 148 206
1933. .182,118 8125 10 ~,,110,000 63.993 212,199
The co.’s ten publications, its broad-
casting station (3DB) and the “Adver-
tiser,” Adelaide, in which it holds a
substantial interest, all contributed to the
pool. Gross earnings (£288,965) sprang
£36,844. Exes. (£139,281) took £24,591
of the increase, leaving the declared net
result £12,253 better at £149,684. That
was after £32,434 net dropped from
somewhere into the depreciation reserve,
raising it to £329,608, which the “Wild
Cat” has treated as provision in excess
of current requirements for the purpose.
Including the addition, there was enough
to pay the pref. div. and show 15.8 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 16.6, 12.7 and
30.3 p.c. for the three preceding years.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c., which is
worth a lot more to old holders.
Over the last nine years £815,594, in-
cluding £400,000 of bonus scrip, has been
added to capital, making it £1,225,000
in 125,000 prefs. and 1,100,000 ords.
Also, half a point was added to the pref.
div. (now 64 p.c.), the ords. averaged
15.2 p.c., and, in place of a deficit of
£103,546 after the 1924 reconstruction,
there are reserves now £212,199 in excess
of goodwill (£250,000).
But the “Herald,” the co.’s chief
money-spinner, is again faced with com-
petition ; this time from the “Star” (it
comes out of the same stable as the
“Argus”), which made its first appear-
ance on Oct. 30. Exactly what effect
this will have upon the Herald Co.’s,
earnings remains to be seen. All that
can be said definitely is that the co. is
very well equipped, financially and other-
wise. In the past the “Herald’s” com-
petitors have been swallowed, or have
retired from the field ; but the past is
not always a reliable guide to the future
in these matters.
The ords., which fetched 58s. a year
ago, fell to 435. 3d. in Sept., but recovered
to 48s. at last week-end. The return at
48s. is 4.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
prefs. at 295. 3d. (255. 6d. a year ago)
return 4.4 p.c. Subject to goodwill in
shareholdings, the net tangible cover is
£ll 11s. 6d. prefs. and 245. ords.
During the year some old plant was
modernised at a net capital cost of
£49,466, and the completion of News-
paper House, Collins-street, now fully let,
added £34,214 to the book value of free-
holds. Still, including shareholdings (up
£39,617), the more or less liquid surplus
was only £19,478 lighter than at the pre-
vious balance:
1920. 1931. 1932. ' 1933.
Stock ..£108,087 £104,679 £147,823 £115,774
Debtors, etc. 56,890 89,116 180,219 188,105
War Loans 70,389 -
Scares in
other cos. 100 478,315 275,882 315,499
Cash .. 27,621 92,172 58,361 41,722
Liquids. . £263,087 £764,282 £662,285 £661,100
Liabilities 91,782 103,657 128,955 147,248
Surplus. . £171,305 £660,625 £533,330 £513,852
Freeholds,
etc. . . 73,045 331,711 380,221 414,435
Machinery
and plant 45,796 445,513 618,507 567,973
Net assets £290,746 £1,437,849 £1,432,058 £1,496,260
The year’s growth in the book value of
net assets was £64,202.
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 12,512 74 p.c. = 8,250 4262 14,324
1924.. 14,025 7| „ „ 8,250 5775 20,099
1925.. 14,558 8 „ „ 8,800 5758 25,857
1926.. 15,572 9 „ „ 9,900 5672 31,529
1927.. 16,333 9 „ „ 9,900 6433 37,962
1928.. 13,686 9 ~ „ 9,900 3786 41,748
1929.. 15,541 10 „ „ 11,000 4541 46,289
1930.. 15,441 10 „ „ 11,000 4441 60,730
1931.. 11,675 7 „ „ 7,700 3975 54,705
1932.. 9,168 6 „ „ 6,600 2568 57,273
1933.. 8,712 6 „ „ 6,600 2112 59,385
Apart from the possibilities of Govern-
ment interference, the future of these
trustee cos. looks as assured as anything
of the kind can look these days. But
the fall in values, reduction in interest
and rents and the sluggishness of the pro-
perty market have lowered their com-
mission and other earnings, while taxa-
tion and fresh complications connected
with the administration of assets have
made it difficult to restrain outgoings,
which now make off with a bigger pro-
portion of gross earnings than they used
to.
Consider these figures:
Exes. p.c.
Gross of Gross
Trust Fun'ds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910.. £3,029,970 £11,743 £4,930 42.0 p.c.
1920.. 6,349,568 24,948 15,689 62.9 „
1925.. 9,895,117 42,950 27,771 64.7 „
1927.. 11,712,983 51,168 34,235 66.9 „
1928.. 12,873,589 25,374 38,088 72.5 „
1929.. 14,364,553 69,104 42,963 72.7 „
1930.. 15,975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 „
1931.. 16,777,007 61,944 49,669 80.2 „
1932.. 17,909,175 57,881 48,114 83.1 „
1933.. 18,150,645 54,663 45,350 82.9 „
During the last term the net growth in
the Permanent’s trust funds was £241,470
as against £1,132,168 in the previous
term. The difference is due mainly to
delayed winding up of estates. Gross
earnings slipped £3218, of which £2764
was offset by savings in exes. After
striking £6OO off the book value of pre-
mises, enough remained to show 7.9 p.c.
on capital as against 8.3, 10.6, 14 and
14.1 p.c. back to 1929. The div. was
kept at 6 p.c., equal to 3.8 p.c. on capital
and reserves combined.
At Sept. 30 the co.’s own funds, to-
gether with £BOO5 coming to creditors,
were invested in premises, £58,271; mort-
gages and Government securities,
£101,416; cash, etc., £21,603. Returns
from these sources (not disclosed in the
published accounts) will benefit a little
from recent cuts in taxation, and the
trust business can be expected to
gradually expand.
The market prices the £5 shares paid
to 11s. at 16s. 9d.; at that figure the
return is 3.9 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis.
Each rise or fall of 1 p.c. in the distribu-
tion would represent one half of one
per cent, in the yield. The cover is
16s. lid. in net tangibles.
Queensland Cement anti Lime Co.
Net , Dividends ~ To Re-
July, Profit. /—Pref.—, Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 20,451 8% 6% 5% = 15,421 5,030 5,349
Reserves.
1928.. 29,885 10 ~ 8 „ 8 „ „ 20,502 9,385 4,034
1929.. 35,882 10 „ 8„ 8 „„ 20,502 15,380 19,414
1930.. 30,064 10 „ 8 „ 8 „ „ 20,502 9,562 28,976
1931.. 18,843 8 „ 6,, 6 „„ 15,601 3,242 32,218
1932.. 15,831 8 „ 6 „ 6 „ „ 15,601 230 32,448
1933.. 15,725 8 ~ 6 ~ 6 ~ ~ 15,601 124 32,572
There is £245,061 of capital to feed in
44,878 first 8 p.c. and 182,183 second
6 p.c. cum. prefs. and 18,000 ords. The
prefs. rank in the order stated for divs.
and capital, and advance with the ords.
beyond 6 p.c. After setting aside £IO,OOO
for the taxgatherer and a like amount for
depreciation (together £B6OO more than
for the previous term), the year’s net
result was £lO7 lighter, and little more
than enough to give the prefs. their mini-
mum requirements and the ords. 6 p.c.
The co. is the only producer of cement
in Queensland/ Sales touched their
lowest point in 1931, when the 60,000-
tons-per-annum works at Darra were
closed for two-thirds of the term. There
has been marked improvement in output
since, but sales are still well below plant
capacity. However, more money is now
being spent on public and other construc-
tion work, sales and income taxes have
been reduced, and the use of the shell-lime
deposit from the co.’s new lease on Mud
Island is expected to further reduce cost.
The steamer Kyogle has been bought, and
is being fitted with dredging equipment,
to work this deposit, and land has been
secured at Oxley for the erection of the
treatment plant. Also, the management’s
efforts to widen the use of the co.’s
products by advertising are bearing fruit.
Finances ars comfortable:—•
1921. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £174,110 £245,061 £245,061 £245,061
Overdraft .. 84,623 —•— .
Sundry creditors 21,680 8,057 8,178 14,365
Freehold, etc. 25,027 28,605 30,589 28,570
Plant, etc. .. 172,804 313,890 314,449 322,244
Stocks .. 25,353 50,816 39,827 36,876
Book debts .. 11,471 11,082 13,982 14,556
Cash, etc, .. 1,931 17,578 30,374 48,886
The year’s addition to the book value
of plant was £7795, while the cash hold-
ing, etc., was strengthened by £18,512,
and only £6187 was added to the debt.
The improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£85,953, including stocks)
was £9948.
Over the last 12 months the market has
lengthened its bid for the firsts from
225. 6d. to 28s. 6d., and for the seconds
from 16s. to 225. 6d. At the higher figure
the return is 5.6 p.c. and 5.3 p.c. respec-
tively on the basis of last year’s distribu-
tions. The ords. have not an active mar-
ket. The net tangible cover is £6 4s.
firsts, 255. 6d. seconds, and 565. 2d. ords.;
it is mainly plant, worth what it can
earn.
Hordern Bros., Ltd.
( Dividends Towards
Prefs. Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. Ords. serves. Deficit.
1923.. 13,515 5,079 Nil 8,436 49,480
July,
1924*. 11,547 13,500 Nil 51,433
1925.. 14.460 9,000 Nil 5,460 45,973
1926.. 30.857 9,000 6 p.c. = 13,500 8,357 37,616
1927.. 40.639 9,000 6 „ „ 13,500 18,139 19,477
Reserves.
1928.. 42.596 9,000 6 „ „ 13,500 20,096 619
1929.. 43.046 9,000 6 „ „ 13,500 20,546 21,165
Preliminary exes., £3275 .. .. 17,890
8 & 9 p.c.
1930.-27,725 12,939 4 p.c. = 9,000 5,786 23,676
1931.. 17.319 17,000 Nil 319 23,995
1932.. 28.231 14,291 6 p.c. = 13,500 440 24,435
1933.. 30.207 13,175 6 „ „ 13,500 3,532 27,967
•Seventeen months.
Broadly, the function of the retailer is
that of buying agent for the community
he serves. His success or otherwise
depends largely upon whether he buys
the right type of goods at the right price.
Judged on this basis, Hordern Bros,
appear to have grappled successfully with
the new trading problems. Although
slump lightened turnover, and caused
trouble with stocks and debtors’ balances,
the co. pulled through with enough to
pay the pref. divs. in 1931. In the fol-
lowing term gross earnings sprang
£18,925, the net result benefited by
£10,912 of the increase, and the ords. got
into the picture again with 6 p.c. During
the last term “many thousands of addi-
tional customers were served.” The im-
provement in gross earning (£217,019)
was £2611, while the growth in exes.
(£186,812) was only £635, leaving enough
to pay the pref. divs. and show 7.5 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 6.1,0.1, 6.5,15.1,
15, 14 and 9.7 p.c. back to 1926. So the
6 p.c. div. was repeated.
The rise in the price of primary pro-
ducts and reductions in sales and other


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting ?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc. ; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Codlison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try LEMPRIERE & CO., Collins House,
Melbourne, when selling Ores, Metals, Scrap, or buy-
ing Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
ASSAYS.
PROSPECTORS’ SAMPLES
ASSAYED AND TESTED.
B. V. Heath & Associates, 405 Collins St., Melbourne.
Advt.
THE'ROAD TO NET PROFIT. The path to more
net profit lies in the proper functioning of finance,
production and merchandising. Our staff of sales
consultants, engineers and cost analysts is equipped
to investigate and reorganise these fundamentals of
business. Consultation incurs no obligation. B. V.
Heath and Associates, 405 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Cl.—Advt.
TESTING Of GOLD ORES
If you have a Refractory Gold Ore problem,
write us particulars and send sample for
examination.
We advise regarding most suitable method of
treatment, type and cost of correct Plant,
including Plow Sheet.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO. PTY., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
[ MM.
m
"Become a member of
the A.M.P. while you
are young, Jim!"
rELL, I looked at it this way, Jim,” said the
yy foreman. “There is hardly a well-to-do man
in the community who isn’t a member of the
A.M.P., and I found that I could be a member on exactly
the same terms as any of ’em. Same rates. Same benefits.
I decided that if the wealthiest men put their profits into
A.M.P. policies for the security of their old age and their
families, there was all the more reason why I should do
the same with my savings. They had other investments.
I had only the one, and, by gum, it has worked out well.
My £5OO policy in which 1 invest £2/17/- a quarter would
be worth £947 to my wife if 1 died to-morrow.
“Become a member of the A.M.P. while you’re young,
Jim! Don’t put it off. The younger you are when you
join, the less you have to invest in each policy.”
Good advice. The wise man will consult the nearest
A.M.P. representative, or send for a copy of “Investing
in Happiness,” which tells the story of the Society’s
helpfulness to members.
AMP. SOCIETY
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A., General Manager.
A. W. SNEDDON, F.1.A., Chief Inspector and Secretary.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt St., Sydney.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
taves
nes»
\\*VV'
cg?>
f
f
Send
o
copy
a
or
HAPPINE
INVESTING
in
dares
to
Posted
ree
taxes and tariff adjustments have further
improved the outlook. Hence the market,
which is interested only in the prefs.
(100,000 first 9 per cents and a like
number of 8 p.c. seconds), prices the firsts
at 265. and the seconds at 245. as against
255. 6d. and 21s. 6d. respectively a year
ago. Allowing for the 22\ p.c. statutory
cut, the return at the higher prices is 5.4
p.c. firsts and 5.1 p.c. seconds. The
backing is £4 10s. 7d. and £3 10s. 7d.
respectively in net tangibles. Under the
Interest Reduction Act, the prefs. ad-
vance with the ords., after the latter have
received an equal div., up to their original
contract rates.
Premises, fronting the busiest parts of
Pitt and George streets, dominate bal-
ance-sheet figures:
1929. 1931. 1932. 1933.
Paid capital.. £325,000 £425,000 £425,000 £425,000
Liabilities .. 325,646 273,913 229,511 193,627
Premises, plant
and fittings 375,318 405,858 406,015 399,831
Stocks .. 200,291 175,683 147,926 141,821
Book debts .. 47,894 49,956 51,148 46,772
Cash, etc. .. 61,807 91,410 81,731 67,093
During the last term, debtors’ balances
were reduced by £5376, cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £14,638, on fixed assets
£6184 more was written off than was
spent, stock was taken in at £6105 lower,
and £35,884 was clipped off the
debt, which includes an unspecified
amount on mortgage. The improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£61,059, including stocks) was £9765. It
all suggests brisker cash trading.
The New Loan
The Loan Council, the central borrow-
ing authority for the Australian Gov-
ernments, has come into the market with
£10,000,000 of 3| p.c. Consols, maturing
in 1943. The issue price is £99 per cent.,
giving the investor an immediate return
of £3 10s. Bid. p.c. p.a. Including the
premium on redemption, the return is
£3 12s. sd. p.c. p.a. These returns accord
closely with market conditions, and, since
the Commonwealth Bank has under-
written the issue, its success is assured.
The money is to be used one half for
public works by the States, and the other
half for the retirement of short-dated
Treasury bills. At Sept. 30 £50,755,000
worth of these bills had been discounted
locally by the Commonwealth and trad-
ing banks at 2\ p.c., partly for the pur-
pose of stuffing up holes in the Budgets,
and partly for public works. The esti-
mated net deficit for the Commonwealth
and the States for the current financial
year is £9,058,344, also to be financed
by Treasury bills.
Obviously the people have not yet paid
the full cost of this risky but easy
method of finance. With one eye upon
cheap money in the future, and the other
on expansion of credit upon a sound
basis, the board of the Commonwealth
Bank has induced the Loan Council to
finance public works by open-market
operations, and to use part of the pro-
ceeds of the loans to retire Treasury bills,
which are a mortgage upon the future
capital resources of the country. Unless
new public works can be made to earn
enough to cover operating and other costs,
including interest, there is no sound rea-
son for undertaking them under existing
conditions. At the moment, more would
be done towards permanently relieving
unemployment by using the money to
retire Treasury bills. But that might cramp
political style, so the Premiers have
appointed a committee to go into the
whole matter, and to consider the ques-
tion of over-the-counter sales.
Great Northern Tin, Herberton (N.Q.),
is still following a small ore-body between
650 ft. and 700 ft. down. Slime tin and
small lenses of high-grade ore have been
chased for the last 100 ft., but these have
so far refused to make into anything of
importance. During the last fortnight,
the ore pinched out, but further sinking
brought in a face 7ft. by Ift. The last
parcel of 25 tons produced 32cwt. of
concentrates, worth about £350, which
will be swallowed by development
charges. Another 12 tons of similar
grade stuff is in the hoppers. Share-
holders have had a lean time the last
couple of years.
* * * *
Almaden, near Chillagoe (N.Q.), is re-
markable for the rich veins in the granite.
The Federal Flag has recovered some-
thing like £IO,OOO worth of bullion from
a thread sometimes only a quarter of
an inch thick. Rich sample stone from
the New Zealand Flag has recently stimu-
lated northern prospectors, and some 70
men are now engaged looking for further
strikes. The N.Z.’s owners got 1290 z.
from their first ton, and the next two tons
gave 980 z., together worth about £I4OO.
It takes picking, but it is worth while
for the lucky prospectors.
* * * *
The arsenic lode at Chinaman’s Creek,
Mt. Perry (C.Q.), has been taken up
again. To date about 100 tons of ore
has been sent to the battery, but results
are not yet available. The lode is big,
but values fluctuate and selection is neces-
sary to keep high-grade stuff up to the
mill. Geologist A. K. Denmead ran his
tape over it lately; his best average
sample over a width of 6ft. gave an assay
of sdwt. However, there are some richer
veins to sweeten the run of mine output,
but, since only shallow development has
yet been achieved, it is too early for a
pronouncement of prospects.
* * * *
United Options, Ltd., which holds five
leases on a big lode at Reid’s Creek, in
the Mt. Perry district (Q.), is checking
up its extensive development work. Sur-
face values have run to an ounce, but a
tunnel, length 165 ft., has cut the lode in
a poor zone. On the engineer’s advice
they are sinking between No. 1 and No. 2
shafts, which are 900 ft. apart, to ascer-
tain values at depth in the intermediate
zone. Results here will probably shape
the co.’s policy.
* * * *
A Sydney syndicate has bought the old
Mount Shamrock, on the Gayndah (Q.)
railway, for £IB,OO0 —£6000 cash and
the balance in paids in a new co. to be
formed with a capital of £IOO,OOO. The
property, first worked by an English co.
35 years ago, is the only spot in Queens-
land where telluride has been found. The
mine has been devVatered, and an Empire
mill and tables have been erected. It
is intended to instal plant capable of
treating 2000 tons weekly.
* He * >l=
At the True Blue, Mount Perry dis-
trict (Q.), six shafts are being sunk on
new reefs, ranging from 4in. to 6ft. in
width, and assaying up to 3oz. The last
14 tons crushed at Chillagoe returned
26£oz. The gold, 85 p.c. to 91 p.c. fine,
averages £7 3s. an ounce. A small ball
mill and pumping plant have been
erected.
* * * *
New Venture Mines and Development,
in which several Malayan tin concerns
are interested, has taken up the old
Kapia lease, east of the Hannan’s North
Extended, Kalgoorlie, now being de-
veloped by B. H. Prop. The New Ven-
ture Co. has also pegged leases to the
north and west, 72 acres altogether. Fifty
tons from an old dump is going through
the Perseverance mill. The leases will
be unwatered to the No. 4 level, where
good values were reported 30 years ago.
S|C * *
South Kalgurli Consolidated, which has
an option over Alexander’s lease, near
Croesus Prop.’s mine at the northern end
of the Golden Mile, is boring from the
162 ft. level of the old Excelsior shaft to
test the lode channel. The co. has driven
north and south for 320 ft. along this
level, where an oxidised lode, 4ft. wide,
averages 4dwt.
* * * *
Although values at 150 ft. continue
high, the Great Boulder Co. may not
exercise its option over the Salvation
Syndicate’s mine at Grant’s Patch, Ora
Banda (W.A.). It is considered that there
is not sufficient stuff there. John War-
rick and others may float a co. to work
the show on a small scale.
* * * *
During October, . Kunanalling Gold
(W.A.) crushed 170 tons from the Star
of Fremantle for 700 z., and 34 tons
from the Melva Maie for 630 z. Also,
230 tons of sands was treated for 60oz.
Tailings from Star of Fremantle stone
assayed 3dwt., and from Melva Maie,
18dwt. per ton.
jjj jj* jjs
Frank’s Reward (W.A.), about which
interested parties whooped so much,
has gone to pieces. The wealth reckoned
to be in sight proved, as the “Wild Cat”
opined, to be largely imaginary; the
last return of about 3dwt. per ton
accelerated the smash.
* * * *
Paringa Exploration has stopped work
at No. 4 bore on its property at the
northern end of the Golden Mile. No. 5
bore has been started on the south-eastern
portion of the lease. This will be the
deepest hole of the series. To date, no
values have been given.
* * * *
During September, Blackwater Mines,
Reefton (M.L.), crushed 4020 tons for
1711 fine oz. of gold, while Alexander
Mines, another Reefton show, got 91oz.
from 302 tons, plus 61 oz. from 218 tons
of sands. For 22 crushing days, Waihi
won 4770 fine oz. of gold and 28,620
fine oz. of silver from 17,393 tons of ore.
This co.’s Royal lode, No. 12 level, is
still showing high values. At 215 ft. the
full width of the lode is lift., assaying
245. 3d. per ton.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Know anything about Lifeguard Tobacco,
Ltd:, in which I’m offered shares ? —8925.
The business was established as the Globe
Tobacco Co. in March, 1932, to manufacture
high-grade pipe and cigarette tobacco. Estab-
lishment work was brought to a conclusion early
in 1933, the prospectus says. Net profits from
June 1 to Aug. 31 last are put at £421 (= 101
p.c. p.a. on £16,000 purchase consideration).
Vendor takes £BOOO in shares and a like amount
in cash for net assets (after deducting £458
liabilities), valued at £16,000, which includes
£6987 trade-marks, designs, goodwill, etc. The
public is offered 14,000 shares. The product
is selling well in Sydney, though it is not a
cheap tobacco. Provided further establishment
exes, do not interfere with profit-earning, the
goodwill charge does not appear excessive.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.H.: (1) No open market for beryl in Aus-
tralia. Sales are by private treaty, direct with
consumer of through mineral broker. (2) Chief
consuming countries are England, Germany and
the U.S.A. (3) Get in touch with British trade
representative, c/o H. Carew Reid, Malcolm-
street, Perth; Consul-General for Germany,
Melbourne; American Trade Commissioner,
Spring-street, Sydney; O. T. Lempriere and Co.,
Collins House, Collins-street, Melbourne;
Frank Hambridge, Bridge-street, Sydney
W.D.C.: Full details will be found on page 23
of Commonwealth Finance Bulletin, No. 46.
H.T.: Arthur Cocks, Truth and Sports-
man and Hordern Bros, first prefs. are all
worth consideration J.L.S.: “Company For-
mation and Practice,” by Sidey, is one of
the best W. 8.: Quite likely; much depends
upon what the U.S.A. does 1.W.: (1) Any
lower return would be unreasonable. (2) A
mixed business —fruit, confectionery, cakes, etc.
—might suit, or drapery. Depends upon
capabilities qi owner and location of shop,
amongst other things. (3) Study advts. in
“S. M. Herald.” Then get a reliable account-
ant to negotiate.


SHADOW SHOWS
“Falling for You,” at the Lyceum, has
a number of assets which are not com-
monly found in British film comedies.
Manly-looking men in the persons of
Jack Hulbert and that excellent actor
Garry Marsh ; a less stereotyped plot and
fewer stale gags and situations than
“Yes, Mr. Brown” ; only one foreigner
as against the Teuton principals of “Tell
Me To-Night” and a partially-English in-
stead of wholly-Continental setting.
The most important events occur at
St. Moritz, where Jack Hulbert and
Cicely Courtneidge go in search of beau-
tiful Tamara Desni, who has been kid-
napped. They are first-class comedians
in their exuberant way, and he is pro-
bably the best acrobatic dancer on any
stage. Also, like Charlie Chaplin, he is
a brilliant skater, and he has plenty of
chances to display all his accomplish-
ments. Another point in favor of this
genuinely funny English farce is that it
travels at top speed from start to finish.
“Baroud” is also an unexpectedly
sound bit of work. It is about a Legion-
ary (Rex Ingram) who falls in love with
an Arab maid. She is nothing like one
of those flat-footed, mud-colored horrors
whom members of the A.I.F. saw sham-
bling about deserts 15 or 16 years ago,
which makes his infatuation more or less
credible. Anyhow, there is a refreshing
absence of screen sentiment and no
Garbo-Gable kisses. The pictures of life,
battle and death in northern Africa are
so naturalistic that the onlooker is dis-
posed to forgive the excessive culture and
cleanliness of some of the Arabs. Alto-
gether, this is the best bill the Lyceum
has had for many months.
“Beauty for Sale” deals another blow
at the capitalistic system. After watch-
ing a succession of plain old women, with
nothing to recommend them but their
wealth, being adulated like empresses at
a New York beautician’s, the spectator
is liable to feel that there may be some-
thing in Bolshevism after all.
Madge Evans, Una Merkell and
Florinne McKinney are the principal
effacers of Time’s ravages. The last-
named commits suicide after being be-
trayed by Phillip Holmes, whose mother
owns the business. Una Merkell—a
vulgar, kind-hearted, disillusioned wise-
cracker, as usual —captures an ancient
half-wit with money. Otto Kruger,
Madge Evans’s choice, is married, and
there are some tense moments between
the discovery of their mutual passion and
the announcement by his wife that she
loves another and wants a divorce. Alice
Brady plays the wife—a yammering
neurotic, as in “When Ladies Meet.”
Otto Kruger makes an intelligent job of
the husband’s part. There are times
when it is hard to realise he is acting.
He keeps his features as still as Charles
Hawtrey used to, and never raises his
voice ; yet he conveys all the required
emotions, and his articulation is so good
that every syllable is heard.
The nudity sequences are a feature.
Beautiful girls are seen dressing, undress-
ing and practically naked, singly and in
hordes, yet they arouse no more interest
than the osculatory shots, the advts. or
the ice-cream boys. Whatever dis-
services the movies may have done to the
cause of morality, they can anyhow
claim to have banished eroticism from
the field of cheap entertainment. An-
other triumph for homoeopathy.
After “College Humor” had pursued
its drivelling course for a while the writer
tried to relieve the tedium by imagining
what Oxford might have been in Jardine’s
day under American dons —the associa-
tion of ideas may have been caused by
Jack Oakie’s Harlequin cap.
s' Cricket Coach ( strolling into Jardine’s bed-
room with his hat on): “ ’Ere, you! Gimme
a cigarette.”
Jardine (Jawningly) : “Certainly.” (Hands him
one.)
C.C.: “Light it, dam’ yer.”
J.: “With pleasure.” (Lights it.)
C.C.: “Siddown !”
J.: “Quite.” (Sits down.)
C.C.: “Stan’ up!”
J.: “Willingly, sir.” (Springs to his feet.)
C.C.: “Gerr out!” (Exit Jardine.)
In other visions Jardine was leaping
about a college garden, against a back-
ground of a dozen different styles of
architecture, with his arm around a
flapper who was wearing his Harlequin
cap; smacking the face of an elderly
undergrad, like Richard Arlen, who was
whimpering because the coach had for-
bidden him to go to a party.... Then
came benign sleep.
This is perhaps the most abjectly silly
collegiate that has been unwound in
Australia ; but it is rash to dogmatise
when all have claims of one kind or
another to the moron palm.
The only conceivable excuse for “Head-
line Shooter,” at the Plaza, is the fake
photography. William Gargan is a news-
reel cameraman who humps his appa-
ratus through scenes of flood, fire, nudity
and earthquake, halting occasionally to
exchange embraces or wisecracks with
Frances Dee, a press sob-sister. Nor-
mally, these principals are a hard-boiled,
raucous-voiced lot of desperadoes who
jest with equal heartiness at love and
death; but there is one rancidly senti-
mental sequence in which Gargan bends
over an expiring colleague—the victim
of a fire started by a Dago gangster —
and swears vengeance. Gargan and Miss
Dee come together for keeps at the finish
after the scenery has been fairly strewn
with corpses, amongst which are the
earthly remains of the Dago already men-
tioned.
An unexpected feature of “Double
Harness” is the casting of Ann Harding
as a designing hussy who virtually black-
mails William Powell, a shipping mag-
nate, into marrying her. She doesn’t look
the part; also most of her frocks are
dowdy, and the photographer has re-
peatedly done her wrong. Powell’s nobby
garments, rolling eyes and restless fea-
tures are all right in underworld parts,
but it is hard to see him as a captain of
commerce even in the U.S.A. The dia-
logue in this movie is exceptionally bright.
How people who are capable of enjoying
SYDNEY FLICKERS.
Gold Diggers and victims in “Gold Dig-
gers of 1933” at Sydney State: ( 1 ) Dick
Powell of the voice, (2) Ruby Keeler of
the toe, (3) Joan Blondell, ( 4 ) Guy
Kibbee and (5) Warren William.
such sophisticated stuff can be expected
to like “Headline Shooter” is one of the
dark mysteries of the exhibiting business.
* * *
“Blind Adventure,” at the Capitol, dis-
plays London on a night of fog. Roland
Young registers Englishism as a burglar,
but the engineer (Robert Armstrong),
heroine (Helen Mack) and subsidiary
crooks (Ralph Bellamy and John Miljan)
are Americans. After about ten minutes
the plot, which concerns the -theft of
plans for a new gun, gets so complicated
and so intermingled with minor criminali-
ties — e.g., a supposed general who steals
pearl necklaces—-that Mr. Armstrong’s
announcement that he regards the whole
business as a nightmare from which he
expects presently to awake strikes a kin-
dred chord in the audience.
“Shanghai Madness” presents Fay
Wray as the spoiled daughter of a mil-
lionaire. She throws herself at the head
of Spencer Tracy, an ex-lieutenant of the
U.S. Navy, who was sacked because he
ordered his destroyer to fire on a Com-
munist-controlled Chinese fort. Eventu-
ally she becomes a stowaway on a tramp
aboard which her hero holds a job as
gunner. She is put ashore somewhere up
a river and the Reds attack the hospital
where she is toiling as anaesthetist. Tracy
routs them, is reinstated in the U.S.N.,
and becomes the son-in-law of the mil-
lionaire. Grading: Suitable only for
members of the Right-thinking Capital-
ists’ League.
In passing, there is at least one weird
item on this programme which is worth
the price of admission by itself: a girl
in a jazz-rhythm comedy whose legs are
attached to her hips on pivots so that
she can completely revolve them on
their axes. This she does frequently, with
every indication of profound satisfaction.
Sundry Shows
Frank Thring and Gregan McMahon
are to be congratulated on their masterly
reproduction of the 70-year-old “The
Streets of London” at Melbourne Gar-
rick on Saturday night. It was not only
a wildly hilarious entertainment but a
trenchant warning to critics —a necessary
repetition of the frequently forgotten
maxim that there is no such thing as
progress in dramatic art. One laughed
at the conventions of “The Streets of
London,” but they are not a whit less
absurd than the conventions of “Mac-
beth” or of the latest talkies in town.
The only difference between it and
“Macbeth” is that Shakspeare was a very
good dramatist and Dion Boucicault the
Elder was a very bad one. The bad
dramatist is often as good a tech-
nician as the good dramatist, and
“The Streets of London” is just
as good technically as “Macbeth,”
and better than “Saint Joan.” The yarn
is told at breathless. speed ; the actors
explain themselves in asides to the audi-
ence, and there is . none of the modern
nonsense of such dull dogs as Noel
Coward.
What made the piece seem so com-
pletely up to date was that there appears
to have been a financial depression at
the time Boucicault wrote his master-
piece.
Amidst hisses and groans Guy Hast-
ings, as Gideon Bloodgood, the banker,
pursued his damnable course through
nine changes of scene ; Frank Harvey,
as the cynical Badger, was his partner
in the plot and anon the avenger of out-
raged society ; Lucy Fairweather (Phyllis
Baker) sacrificed her love temporarily at
five to nine and regained it at ten-forty-
five ; snow began to fall outside Covent
Garden Opera House in Act 11, Scene
2, and was falling outside Bloodgood’s
magnificent mansion in Act III; Noel
Boyd, the banker’s iron-hearted daugh-
ter, in her hour of triumph had her
hand declined by the Hon. Mark Liv-
ingstone, who, in the person of Camp-
bell Copelin, faced starvation with aristo-
cratic insouciance and marriage to the
heroine with unwarranted self-confi-
dence. Dora Mostyn, Darcy Kelway,
George Blunt, Leonard Stephens and
Beatrice Esmond outdid each other in
supplying illustrations of the great truth
that Poverty Opens the Heart. The show
is to be given a probably-too-brief run
of three weeks.
* * *
“When Half-Gods Go,” by Charles
Edgbaston and R. J. Fletcher, presented
at Sydney Savoy by the Indepen-
dents, is based on time-honored dra-
matic situations. There is the surgeon
who must operate on the friend whose
wife the surgeon loves. If the knife slips
the friend will die (in this case friend has
threatened suicide if the operation does
not restore his sight). There is friend s
young wife, who feels herself neglected
because her husband has his mother in
the house, and spends most of his time
at his work, with attractive secretary.
Wife philanders, and plans an elopement
(but not with surgeon). In the last
act, learning that husband intends to
shoot himself (benefits of entirely success-
ful operation have been nullified by acci-
dent), wife rushes to save him, the impli-
cation being that she, like the surgeon,
has deserted her half-gods. Characters of
distinguished scientist and his doctor are
well drawn, and were competently acted
by Alfred Race and Clive Coppard re-
spectively. Scenes in consulting-room and
operating-theatre carry conviction. The
secretary is capably played by Jane
Conolly. Relieved of its occasional
lapses into farce, condensed into three
acts, and provided with more plausible
character studies of wife and secretary,
the thing would succeed. Much of the
dialogue is very neatly written.
* * -v*
Another play presented in Sydney
the same evening—“Carlyon’s Secret,” by
Gilbert Murray, at Bryant’s Playhouse-
had an eye-operation as one of its in-
gredients, but in this case the audience
was not let into the secrets of the operat-
ing-theatre. Central figure of the play
is Sir David Carlyon, retired Indian ad-
ministrator and blackguard, H. C. Harper,
as Sir David, and Norma Carpenter, as
his daughter, were able to put some
human interest into an incredible story.
* * *
Frank Hutchens, who constitutes a
respectable segment of the backbone of
Sydney Con., gave a public recital of his
latest composition—a trio for pianoforte,
violin and ’cello —in the Con.’s small hall
one night last week, and looked sur-
prised when he found the place crowded.
Form of the new three-part invention is
classical three movements: allegro
moderato, andante and allegro vivace—
and there is plenty of melody in it, the
slow movement, in which the piano is
intermingled with muted strings, being
particularly sweet. Harmonic treatment
in this part suggests mist, but not fog.
The whole thing expresses an idea ; pos-
sibly tells a story ; but this critic isn’t
prepared to venture a specific interpreta-
tion. In a pianoforte recital that made
up the rest of the programme the com-
poser showed his appreciation of the
contrapuntal majesty of Bach and
Franck, the poetry of Chopin and
Debussy and the bright freshness of
Scarlatti, and played two of his own
compositions, “The Island” and a toccata,
both original in material and interesting
in construction.
* # *
Backbone of the orchestral concert at
Sydney Con. on Saturday afternoon was
Sibelius’s “En Saga,” which was per-
formed a few weeks ago by the same in-
strumentalists. The work improves on
acquaintance. Elgar’s latest composition,
“Nursery Suite,” proved to be program-
matic music that deals with such themes
as “The Sad Doll” and “The Waggon
Passes By” (waggon-wheels need oiling).
Only occasional glimpses here of the
Elgar who scored “The Dream of Geron-
tius.” A seldom-heard Moszkowski
“Spanish Dance” was heartily applauded,
and a collection of waltz themes from
“Der Rosenkavalier” showed that
Richard Strauss knows nearly as much
about this branch of composition as did
the two Johanns.
* %■ *
Sydney Players’ Club presented “Arms
and the Man” on Saturday. Stanley Ick-
Hewins made an effective Bluntschli, and
Eunice Denham as Raina, Edward Cavill
as her father and Kathryn Holley as her
mother filled their niches in the picture
neatly. For the rest the play was badly
cast. Sergius, as represented by G.
Lorimer Ife, was unconvincing, and
Kathleen Lamond’s Louka had no chance.
Production, in the hands of A. W. Dibley,
was commendable.
* * *
A copper foundry working overtime
or a lunatic in an iron tank was nothing
to the Temperance Hall, Melb., the other
night when the Tai Chung Concert
Society presented “The Mischievous
Woman and the Monk’s Shoe” to a house
of over 1000 phlegmatic Celestials. The
drama is 600 years old, which is 300
years older than anything Allan Wilkie
has purveyed, though not as old as the
“Medea” of Euripides, revived by Dame
Thorndike. The performance, which was
interesting if inexplicable to a foreign
barbarian, was in 14 scenes, and the
costumes, to obtain which a special
envoy was sent to Canton, were amaz-
ingly handsome and elaborate. All the
feminine parts were portrayed by male
impersonators, who had nothing to learn
from Ella Shields ; the tapestried settings
resembled the fantods of a millionaire,
and the orchestra heckled the performers
in the approved Chinese style.


£10,000,000
COMMONWEALTH
LOAN
For Public Works and other purposes
Interest —Price of Issue £99
Currency 10 Years
IS NOW OPEN
and will close immediately the required
amount is received
APPLY EARLY
Commonwealth Treasury
J. A. LYONS,
Treasurer


ABORIGINALITIES
“Hamer”: “The unluckiest cow I ever
knew,” said the man on the park seat,
“was a cocky, Tom Parsley. Tom fell in
love with a girl, an’ she died jest before
they was ter be married. ’Ard luck it was ;
she was the best milker in the district.
Then ’e fell in love with another girl, an’
\
“ Don't you know your brot h er your own flesh and blood ?”
“Cripes, then I’ve made me O WN nose bleed!”
she died, too —killed in an accident on
the way to the church. If she’d lived an-
other two mu nee she would ’ave in-
herited £20,000. But that was the way
with Tom all through ; if ’e bought a
prize cow it was bound ter fall down
a well and kill itself; and the best ’orse
’e ever ’ad broke its neck trying to get
out of a paddick. ’E worked ’ard for
twenty years paying off a mortgage and,
to square the last few quid, let the in-
surance lapse for a few weeks. It caught
fire, and ’is ’ouse an’ ’is crops went up
in smoke. ’E never ’ad a decent w’eat
’arvest, ’cept when the price was so low
the stuff wasn’t worth stripping. To
show ’ow bad ’is luck was, ’e ’ad a bloke
workin’ fer ’im for ten years without
ever drawin’ ’is pay, except a bob or two
a week. At larst this cove puts in fer ’is
money. Tom ’ad ter pay ’im; and blow
me the bloke only just put it inter the
bank when ’e dropped dead on the step.”
I suggested that it was rather a good
thing such an unlucky man had not mar-
ried. “Oh, but ’e did marry,” said the
man on the park seat. “ ’ls wife is living
yet. You never did see a man like Tom
fer bad luck!”
* * * *
“G.F.Y.”: Besides clearing up my land
and milking cows I do a little employers’
liability insurance for a Melbourne co.
Bill Smith, himself anything but mentally
bright, asked me to insure his new hand.
I had a look at the serf—and turned
down the risk. I told Bill it would be
murder to put that half-wit cutting
scrub ; either he or Bill or both would
get hurt using axes and slashes in spar
country. “He has no brains,” I con-
cluded. Later in the month what I ex-
pected happened ; the poor fellow got
his head opened and was brought into
the village for burial. At the funeral Bill
whispered to me, “You were right about
that chap. I had a look inside his head ;
there was only stuff in it like rabbit
guts.”
* * * *
“Atiz”: The theory of canine hysteria
outlined by “Pons” (B. 18/10/’33) ex-
plains, perhaps, an experience of mine 30
years ago. I had a bull-terrier bitch,
Lil, of whom I and the rest of the family
made a great pet. Quite suddenly she
developed such a fear of me that if I
approached or spoke to her she would
go frantic with terror. I tried to over-
come her fear for a while, but finally
had to give her to a friend. Whenever
I visited the new owner Lil used to
make herself scarce until I left. As I
lived in a district where a man caught
a cold if he went out without a dog, the
case caused a lot of local interest, and
the generally accepted theory was that
she had had a very vivid dream in which
I had brutally ill-used her. The local
vet. concurred in this view.
“Cro-M.”: Symptoms ascribed to hys-
teria have been manifested, though to a
less marked degree, in my own dog, a
fox-terrier, which displayed a drooping
tail, a tense attitude and a half-annoyed,
half-terrified look whilst being patted and
fondled. My own theory is that this
form of hysteria is a repressed tendency
to snappishness. Vet. McMichan has
pointed out that snappishness, in nine
cases out of ten, can be traced to over-
feeding, pampering, petting and coddling.
Dogs that have been well-trained from
puppyhood hardly ever snap at their
owners, though the latter may be fond-
ling them to excess. The dog may have a
strong desire to snap, but it is repressed
by months of training, and hence dis-
plays itself in this so-called “canine hys-
teria.” Re the lack of vitamin A theory,
McMichan advocates, in the case of
house dogs, a biscuit at least once a day
to stimulate the secretion of saliva and
keep the teeth free from tartar.
* * * *
“Mulga Mick”: Emus make good
tucker if taken young—about the size of
“I’ve been working for you for two years, and all you’ve shown me is how to milk
cows.”
“Wot chance have I got? It’s always bedtime when you’ve finished.”
scrub turkeys. Sixty years ago our recipe
for cooking was this: After killing the
bird, leave the feathers on. Draw out the
inside. Let the remainder cool. When
cool put it into hot ashes, feathers and
ail. When the feathers are singed off and
the skin is charred black, take out and
hang on a bush until next morning. Dur-
ing the night the flesh loses its rank
flavor and becomes more tender. It will
keep fresh at this stage for days, but
can be finished next day. Next process
is to put the bird in a damp sugarbag
and place it in a hole in the ground.
Over this build a fire. Keep it going
strongly for about an hour, and your
emu is fit to place before a king. Soviet
papers, please copy.
* * * *
“Sinbad”: The Christmas-bush got its
name in Governor Macquarie’s time.
The regiment stationed in Sydney took
great pride in the decoration of their
mess on December 25, and a species of
brilliant red flower was set aside for their
especial use. This flower was known
first as “officers’ bush” and later as
“officers’ Christmas-bush.” Eventually
this was shortened to the present name.
* * * *
“Dai R.”: Consider the working day
of the rabbit-trapper. This poor cow
slings the breakfast billy at about 12.15
a.m., and half an hour later is on his
round, generally about three miles over
rough and timber-strewn country. Hav-
ing retrieved catches from his traps
(average 60) and reset springs, he begins
skinning or dressing at a depot in the
scrub. About 4 a.m. he is back in camp
and sleeps till habit rouses him a couple
of hours later for the morning round.
Another three miles’ tramping, and four
hours’ hard graft. In camp again about
10 a.m., he goes through all old skins
for possible weevils, or wires new ones,
and then snatches sleep till noon, when
he rises to dine and prepare for the next
set by shifting his 60 traps to new
ground. Setting begins about 2 p.m.,
finishing near five. The sundown round
begins at six, finishing about 9.30. And
so to bed, to rise again a little after
midnight.
* * * *
“His Nibs”: The queerest saddle I
have seen was one in N.Q. It con-
sisted of a V-shaped wooden trough
without ends, the sides being about 18in.
long and Bin. wide. This was turned
upside-down on the prad’s back and
secured by a surcingle. The saddle-
cloth was a cornbag. For stirrups a
piece of rope was thrown across the
“saddle,” the feet being thrust into the
loops hanging down on each side. Must
have been pretty hard on the rider, but
the North breeds ’em tough,
* * * *
“Beach Mountain”: Shearers in west-
ern N. S. Wales are endeavoring to find
who has the longest service. George
Smith, who has had a stand at Bundemar
shed for 49 successive years, started the
argument. F. Dinger, of Duramana,
chipped in, claiming to have handled the
blades for 50 years, though he hasn’t
been at any single shed for that length
of time. His record is eclipsed by Sandy
Bryant, of Warren. Not only has Sandy
been a shearer for over half a century,
but for 53 years he has been engaged at
one shed. 'To add a sheen to his per-
formance, during the season just closed
his 156 was the highest individual figure
of any one day.
* * * *
“The Lad”: Cheapest and easiest way
of getting rid of flies is by leaving in
their way a little refreshment. Take one
teaspoon black pepper, two teaspoons
brown sugar, and moisten the whole with
cream. One bite means death to any fly.
* * * *
“General Prac.”: There are three dan-
gerous biting spiders in N. S. Wales, so
be on the watch for Atrax robustus,
Atrax formidabilis and Latrodectus has-
seltii. Between them, they have mur-
dered seven people in the last six years
—no trifle, that, for in the same period
only ten persons have died from snake-
bite. Thanks to Dr. Ingram and Anthony
Musgrave, we now know something of
the habits and haunts of these cruel
and crafty architects. Robustus (the
“trapdoor”) builds his funnel-shaped
home near any post, log or rotting
stump. He is about an inch in length ;
his wife is the more portly, and both
are black or reddish-brown. The results
of a bite—well, one poor woman of 25
turned deathly white within ten minutes
of the encounter. Collapsed and sweat-
ing, she was rushed into hospital. There
her breath came in rapid sighs. She
vomited again and again. She was burn-
ing with fever, and she died, blue and
gasping, within thirteen hours. Formida-
bilis has similar habits and produces
much the same signs and symptoms.
Latrodectus, which we call the “redback”
or “jockey” (it is named the “widow”
in California), loves to lurk in old dis-
carded tins and (remember this) in old-
fashioned latrines. The redback killed
six patients in a series of 98 cases. There
seems no doubt that the poison acts
powerfully on the nervous system and
can dissolve the blood corpuscles. Any-
how, it produces sweating, vomiting, dif-
ficulty in breathing and a duskiness of
the face. In all cases, the treatment is
that of snakebite —the tourniquet, in-
cisions over the site of the wound, per-
manganate of potash, stimulants and
morphia for the pain. Persist with treat-
ment till the doctor comes; pester and
badger your patient.
SWEETENING THE PLATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I helped to build batteries once,” averred Joe,
“Ten-headers, to crush for the public, you
know,
State mills they ran up in a generous way
When money was plenty in W.A.
And I’ve never forgotten how sombre and sad
Was the face of the very first client we had
When the stone that was half-ounce to him and
his mates
Fell short of their guess by a couple o’ ’weights.
But the boss said to me
That night after tea,
‘There must be one crushing to sweeten the
plates.’
“And it’s come to me since,” went on Joe,
“that it’s true
Not only of stampers, but other things, -too.
The chap who goes first anywhere, you will
find,
Is making things smoother for all who’re
behind;
Though he may not suspect it, you safely can
bet
He’s paying for something that others will get.
And whether it’s crashing conventions or gates,
You take it from me, that lie’s wisest who waits
Discreetly aside
Till the ice has been tried
And another chap's crushing has sweetened the
plates.
“There’s the fellow who pitches some feminine
bird
The first tale of love that she ever has heard,
And begs that her heart upon him she’ll
bestow—
How often d’you reckon he gets her?” said
Joe.
“But he sure has his uses. However he’s vexed,
He’s making it easier, lots, for the next.
Though little he scored except kisses and dates,
And ever the thought of her fickleness grates,
He gave her a start
In affairs of the heart;
As my manager put it, he sweetened the plates.
“And wherever you look and wherever you go,
You’ll find what I tell you is dinkum,” said
Joe.
“All new things have edges. However you
scoff,
It’s obvious someone must hammer them off.
And this beer that we’re chewing,” he growled
with a curse,
“I wonder where’s any that’s weaker or worse.
A skinful of wallop like this, by the Fates,
Would leave us, I reckon, in perilous straits!
T’m switching to gin,”
Said Joe with a grin,
“But anyhow, cobbers, it’s sweetened the
plates.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Macknade”: That cow which de-
veloped such a hunger for iron that her
milk practically became tinct. ferr. ox.
(B. 8/11/’33) recalls the unfortunate ex-
perience of a mate of mine who long ago
kept a dairy near Mackay in N.Q. He
was a vague sort of person, and, though
he noticed that his cows were in the habit
of going down to the outfall where the
“Thought you’d turned up your toes?”
“Me ? Why ?”
“Heard someone speak well of you this morning.”
waste molasses from the distillery was
run into the creek, he never attached
much importance to the fact, though
mildly surprised that they were always
merry and bright even in the worst sea-
sons. It did not occur to him that a
mixture of molasses and water is a first
step in the distillation of alcohol, and,
though his steadily increasing trade grati-
fied him, he never guessed the reason,
since, like most people connected with
dairies, he never let milk pass his lips.
The light broke on him one day when
the excise officials descended on him and
charged him with manufacturing and sell-
ing spirituous liquor without a license.
His plea of innocence was laughed to
scorn when the analyst gave evidence
that the milk he sold was 75 p.c. alcohol.
He was gaoled for a long term and his
distillery was ordered to be destroyed.
This, consisting of some 50 cows and
calves, presented a problem. The cows
could not be broken up with sledge
hammers, as is the usual practice. They
could not be allowed at large. They, were
finally sold to the local butchers, but had
to be kept in sealed bond and released
for killing only on production of the
customary bond warrants. There was a
big rush when the first batch of meat
from them was on the hooks, but it was
disappointing. They had been on hay
and water for a month and the virtue
had gone out of them.
* * * *
“Tiewire”: My acrobatic training
saved my life once. My show partner
Hector and I were rowing in Lake Car-
gelligo when a gale came up. Next thing
we knew we were floundering in the
water. Neither of us could swim ; but
we both knew all about balancing. The
lake was only about nine feet deep where
we were, so I took a deep breath, then
stood on the bottom. Hector stood on
my shoulders and kept his head above
water. When I wanted a bit of air we
changed places. We kept at it like that
—turn and turn about to take a breather
—but each time we had to come up a
bit sooner, till we were bobbing up and
down like jack-in-the-boxes. The rescue
boat came just in time.
* * *
“Tamornie”: One of the queerest of
fishes is the axolotl, from Mexico, speci-
mens of which are now for sale in one
of Melbourne’s department stores. The
creature has four legs, nostrils and gills,
which seem to function in the usual
manner. The axolotl is the first stage
in the growth of the salamander, Ambys-
toma tigrinus. If not deprived of water
the fish does not change, but should the
supply gradually diminish it adopts the
characteristics of a land-dweller and
eventually takes up life on shore. If
suddenly deprived of water it cannot
adjust itself, and dies. The species is re-
produced (by eggs) only while water-
dwelling.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Kensington, where “D.E.”
(B. 18/10/’33) met his black snakes,
covers what used to be one of the worst
snake-infested areas of Sydney. “German
Charlie,” who claimed to have been bit-
ten 400 times without ill-effects, being (so
he said) immune, lived thereabouts. He
would demonstrate his immunity to any-
one who cared to put up ten bob. Al-
though most of the district has been
closely settled for years, snakes reappear
there in the most mysterious fashion.
Three were found last summer in well-
cultivated gardens at least half a mile
away from any waste land. A resident
has the theory that, in the case of
oviparous snakes, there may be delayed
hatchings of individual eggs ; the young
snakes remain doggo under house
foundations where there are mice and
cockroaches as a food supply, and only
occasionally startle householders by
appearing in their gardens. Centennial
Park is hardly an explanation. I killed
a death-adder there 30 years ago, near
one of the ponds ; but it was regarded
as a great rarity in Svdney even at that
time 5 3
* * * *
“Allegro”: Drinking kava is the
cheapest way on earth to become intoxi-
cated. The stuff, taken in sufficiently
“All my life I’ve wanted to play a part in a tragedy.”
“Well, if you don’t keep away from that tabby in the chorus, you will!”
large doses, paralyses the partaker’s
muscles for hours, whilst the brain
remains fairly clear. After an even-
ing’s spree kava inebriates may be
quite recovered by morning, but they
need only a large drink of water to be-
come completely drunk again.
* * * *
“Frigid”: Australia should emulate
Egypt and cultivate respect for the white
ibis, for it is partial to the freshwater
snails which are the hosts of the liver
fluke, and is a deadly foe of grass-
hoppers. The other day a sportsman in
a party of which I was a member took
a pot-shot at a flock flying overhead.
To illustrate to this misguided man his
error, we opened up the bird and showed
the culprit no fewer .than 2000 grass-
hoppers.
# * * *
“Trenton”: A bird not often seen these
days is the ground parrot ( Pezoporus
wallicus),. whose habitat is the coast from
Queensland round to the Leeuwin penin-
sula in W.A. Sticking to the swampy
patches, the bird is a great runner and
keeps to the ground mostly, but when it
is startled it rises with a quail-like whirr,
and, after a short flight, drops in a dive-
like swoop for cover. Dogs will set the
bird, as it has a strong scent, but that
fact does not affect the edible quality of
its flesh, which is as good as quail or
snipe any day. The only specimen I ever
got was in the big, sedgy swamp at Tor
Bay, 15 miles west of. Albany.
* * * *
“P. 8.”: Three young men fishing at
Maguire’s Crossing, near Trial Bay
(N.S.W.), saw what looked like a big
stranded fish in the water, and one
went to investigate. The visitor had a
furry body, fins like a seal and tail like
a prawn. One man grasped the tail, and
immediately the monster turned on him,
chasing him from the water, at the same
time emitting a terrifying roar. It re-
mained a moment in the shallow water
and then made out to sea. The fishermen
suggest that it was a sea-lion.
* * * *
“Umgeni”: Some misguided enthu-
siasts have been extolling in the Mel-
bourne press the virtues of the bag- or
case-moth. The creature weaves a bag
of a strong and peculiar type of silk in
which it spends its caterpillar existence.
Japan specialises in manufacturing
articles from this leathery silk, and since
the moths are common in most parts of
Australia it is claimed that here is yet
another Australian industry running to
waste. The moth and its bag, pendu-
lous from the trees on which the en-
closed caterpillars feed, are familiar to
most outback Australians, and the dam-
age done when an epidemic of them
occurs, as happens now and then, is
considerable, especially among wattles, to
which they seem partial. Years ago
when Natal built up a flourishing wattle-
bark industry with trees imported from
Australia, the plantations were nearly
wiped out by an infestation of these
moths, which came from Australia with
the seedlings. It was only at great expense
that the pest was conquered. In South
Africa, to suggest, as has been done in
Australia, that the bag-moth should be
carefully cultivated because of its silk
production would be to invite sudden
assault.
* * * . . * .
“H.K.8.”: “M.L.C” believes that bees
can recognise their hive by its color ;
“Larrapinta” says bees are color-blind,
and thinks they use trees, bushes and
stones as landmarks. In my opinion they
are both wrong. Bees do not return to
the hive itself, but to the exact spot in
space where the hive’s entrance was when
they left it. You can prove this by mov-
ing a hive a dozen feet from its place
when the bees are out foraging and sub-
stituting an empty hive (of different shape
and color, if you like). All the return-
ing bees go straight into the new hive
because it stands in the accustomed place,
it is the position, not the structure,
to which the bees return. They must be
guided by an instinct similar to that of
homing pigeons. The exactness of this
instinct is such that if you raise or lower
the hive lOin. on its stand (as I happened
to do one day last year) bees returning
with honey will cluster on the outside of
the hive at the exact level where the
door used to be—and will take quite d
long while to find the new position of
t i, e entrance.
*'* * *
“Wai-hoi”: The abos. of Melville and
Bathurst islands are fine watermen, and
their big dugout canoes are the best of
their kind. The handy thing about them
j s that they won’t sink. This fact is a fea-
ture of the abos.’ hunting of the dugong.
Unlike the carcass of the croc., which
sinks like a stone, that of the dugong
floats, so when the darkies spear one they
bop overboard from the canoe, swamp
juggle the edge of the gunwale under
the floating mass of good tucker, bale
out the craft with a big conch-shell, and,
as the canoe rises, up comes the hefty
carcass with it. Then it’s “pull for the
shore,. sailor, pull for the shore” prior
to t he tribal feast.
* * *
“Tea-tree”: Fail to see how the experi-
ence of “R.L.H.” (B. 4/10/’33), who
passed through two strips of rainstorm
during a motor-trip between Broken Hill
and Wilcannia, supports the theory that
trees attract rain. The region lying be-
tween those two inland towns is not all
open country. From Topar Hotel to Wil-
cannia, 70 miles, the route lies through
timbered land. In places (particularly
at Dola, where “R.L.H.” presumed the
rain to be tree-attracted) the timber is
light, but for the most part the forest is
fairly dense. Much of the rain of the
area comes from tropical storms which
sweep indiscriminately over narrow
strips of territory. Years ago, while 1
was droving sheep between B. Hill and
Menindie, tropical weather developed,
A thunderstorm little more than a
mile wide swept over the saltbush
plains just in front of the jumbucks. The
thirsty animals pressed forward and
drank their fill, while we replenished
waterbags and drums from the water left
lying in the crab-holes. Two miles
ther on and parallel to the rain-strip was
a mile-wide stretch of nelia scrub, while
two miles beyond this was Horse Lake
and the far-flung flanks of Yancowinna
Creek, fringed with cool, green gums. But
the prayers of the saltbush plain received
preferential recognition.
THIRD HAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O men who skoal to the long ship roll
As she beats to her Viking home,
Adventurers all, from the ice-bound Pole
To the tropic reef-strewn foam,
My song shall be of the blue road free
And heft of the steering-oar —
We ask sea room to the crack of doom
From a thousand years before !
Our decks are wet from the dinghy set right
aft where the headstock strains,
To the for’ard winch by the Samson-post, where
we lash our rusty chains;
Our sails are dim when ghostly glow of a
gibbous moon doth fall,
As by the coast we stamp and go—three men
in a ten-ton yawl!
The old Changte with her ruby eye comes tail-
ing through the murk,
And Yon, he says, we’ll lead her in where the
Townsville channels lurk;
But a long sea mile from the Cleveland light
will bring her dead abeam,
And then sheMl soon be out of sight, with six-
teen knots of steam!
The rain in banks on Cape Cleveland’s flanks is
beating down our way;
The light has gone and the stars are shut, the
mains’l’s salt with spray;
But Yon, he squints at the compass card and
leans to the tiller’s thrust.
While 1 hang on to the handrail hard, as the
rain comes down in a gust,
h* ■
Our jib has split with the weight of it, and
the skipper comes out in the wet—
“ Ease off, Johan, ease her off a bit, an’ we’ll
get our storms’l* set.”
We both go for’ard to lower away, and we bend
a new sail on
In the pitchy dark and the lashing spray and
thresh of the rag that’s gone.
But squalls will clear and the wind will veer
and we lay our course again;
The Changte’s lights are away ahead, she passed
in the black and rain;
The southerly blows great guns, great guns, and
the dawn comes on to us all
As we belt along to the north, my sons—three
men in a ten-ton yawl!
The creak and knock of the gaff and block,
And the chatter of things unseen;
The lurch and roll in the steady lock
Of the waters, palely green;
The thrum of wind on the mains’l boom,
They call, as they called before,
Adventurers all to the crack of doom
From a thousand years before !
QUEENSLAND.
RALP H . ADENEY.


NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Copra Slump
“Endiadere”: Since the beginning of the
year, when N.G. copra stood at
£l3 12s. 6d. per ton London, the price
has dropped steadily until at the end of
last month it was £9 ss. London, equiva-
lent to about £6 in New Guinea. The
quotes are for the best kiln-dried pro-
duct, the smoked being practically un-
saleable. The latest shock received by
the industry is the imposition by France
of a duty of 355. per ton on foreign-
grown copra, the revenue thus acquired
being set aside to subsidise planters in
the French colonies. New Guinea ships
more copra to France than any other
copra-producing country, the export dur-
ing 1932 being 17,691 tons out of a total
tonnage produced of 59,452. On top of'
that comes the fact tliat an open market
for copra has ceased to exist. Since the
formation of Unilever it is not likely
that prices will improve—indeed, they
will probably continue to drop. The
Unilever combine is now the only buyer
in the world’s markets, and is naturally
able to fix its own rates. As matters
stand at present, kiln-dried copra just
about repays cost of production. Smoke-
dried copra prices are far below produc-
tion costs. All that applies to New
Guinea applies equally to Papua. The
situation in the Possession has been some-
what improved by the increase in rubber
prices. Papua has now a considerable
area under producing trees, and has an
advantage over its Mandated sister in
this respect. Prices have jumped nearly
100 per cent, in the last six months, a
heavy American demand being chiefly
responsible. Papuans claim that the
Commonwealth Government has now a
splendid chance to establish rubber-plant-
ing by ensuring a guaranteed price to
producers. Sixpence a pound for five
years would enable planters, with the cer-
tainty of a minimum return before them,
to extend their planted areas and increase
production.
* =(« * jfc
“Mulgo”: Chinese in Queensland
show greater versatility in sport than in
any other part of Australia. I don’t
remember ever seeing a Chinaman on
horseback in N.S.W., but in western
parts of Queensland Chinese are com-
monly employed as boundary-riders. At
Cloncurry a Chow cook owned and rode
racehorses. Around Normanton four
brothers named Foy were good cattle-
men and expert buckjump-riders (they’re
getting ancient now). Three of them
were amateur jockeys, and the other a
professional. Sometimes they all rode in
the same race. A station gardener on the
south-west border was a good billiardist,
a slick sprinter and a first-rate cricketer.
Another cricketer, Ah Poon, who is still
bowling strong, played for Toowoomba
against the last English team. In the
Barcoo country a good sport was Tommy
Ah Foo, licensed publican and father of
the famous Mary Ah Foo, an old-time
belle of the west. Tommy’s family was
the town band.
* * * *
“Vic”: A Government machinery in-
spector had a taste of the kind of stuff
the younger North is made of the other
day. He went to inspect a boiler, to find
that the only person in charge was the
owner’s young son. The lad refused to
allow the boiler to be inspected till his
father returned, remarking that for all he
knew the visitor might be a gangster. The
inspector, brushing him aside, entered the
boiler; but no sooner had he got inside
the fire-box than young John Willy
slammed and bolted the door. It was a
more than slightly distraught official who
was released by the homing owner several
hours later.
* * * *
“N.Q.”: Following up its promise to
amend conditions under the Dawson Val-
ley scheme, Queensland Government is
to begin by increasing the irrigation dis-
trict at Theodore from 89 square miles
to 960, bringing the acreage available
for irrigation from 59,960 acres to
614,400. Other recommendations of the
Royal Commission will be adopted ; one
is that dissatisfied settlers should be
allowed to dispose of their holdings. To
do this the Crown will have to finance
incomers to the full value of the improve-
ments, repayment being made in easy
instalments. The question is where to
find the money.
“Mundowie”: Good pastoral country
in the Far North is begging for settlers.
Is the pioneer spirit dead? Consider the
Annings. A big area of north Queens-
land is still known as Anning country,
where the descendants of an early-day
squatter took up runs and prospered. The
old chap pioneered at Reedy Springs, and
worked long and hard, depending mainly
on the gun and a vegetable-patch. His
sons began the same way, adding a little
money now and again to the struggling
stations by droving. Jack Anning, in his
first year at Stewart’s Creek and Char-
lotte Plains, lived on meat, milk, pump-
kin, sweet potatoes and corn. Flour and
sugar were unknown luxuries. The corn
was ground into meal, and even used as
a substitute for coffee, which was sweet-
ened with bush honey. Several sons all
prospered, and later on the members
could travel 150 miles in a straight line
before they got off Anning country.
* * * *
“Bill Ding”: Restrictions of timber
imports during the war were largely
responsible for the extensive use of Aus-
tralia’s own woods by furniture- and
cabinet-makers. Stringy-bark became
Australian “oak,” and in most houses
articles like tables, chairs, meat-safes,
dressers and even polished furniture and
office fittings soon had a big sale.
Westralia was lured into substituting its
black butt, in color and texture not much
unlike stringy-bark, but of sparse growth
in awkward situations ; hence its high
cost. It doesn’t flume half as well as
Tasmanian “oak.” A lot of money that
THE SQUATTER : “Funny weather for this time o’ the year, Jacky. Yesterday and
to-day are both as close as blazes.”
JACKY: “Flurry close all right, boss, and to-morrow not so plurry far off,
neither.”
once went to Portland, Ore., now stops
at home; but if local production costs
were lesSj sales of Australian “oak” fur-
niture and fittings would still be greater.
* * * *
Byrne Hart, the president, told the
annual meeting of Queensland Property-
owners that Queensland paid 1\ times
more land tax than Victorians. He asked
plaintively what inducement there was to
outside investors to bring their money
into Foggy Smith’s State. No answer,
* * * *
a Brisbane alderman brightened a City
Council debate by referring to another
alderman as “this rat from the
Hamilton.” Ordered to leave the cham-
ber, he said as he was going, “I’ll pull
h is neck for him. He called me stupid!”
“Weff, what are you?” asked a comrade.
These aldermen are dissatisfied with the
£3OO p.a. to be provided by ■ way of
salary in the new Brisbane Council Bill
and why shouldn’t they be when they
can give displays of Parliamentary ability
like this? No eight-twenty-fiver from
Canberra could do better,
* * * *
“Titre”: Bananaland is counting on a
bumper sugar crop for this year, better-
ing the 1931 record by some 40,000 tons,
It is estimated that 4,471,000 tons of
cane will be cut for a yield of 621,000
tons. Though there has been heavy re-
striction of planting areas in Cuba and
Java, as well as in the European beet-
sugar producing countries under the
Chadbourne restriction agreement, there
were, at last advices, surplus stocks
abroad of nine million tons. Australian
surplus sugar last year brought £8 ss.
per ton. It will need a bit of luck to
catch that figure when the next market-
ing is due.
* * * *
Randolph Bedford, M.L.A., lost his
libel case against Brisbane “Telegraph,”
which he sued for £20,000 following the
publication of a letter concerning a mine
in which Randolph is interested. The
jury replied in the affirmative to the
Judge’s query as to whether the matter
published was in good faith and for the
public good.
* * * *
Novelist G. B. Lancaster intends to ex-
plore our north-west before leaving Aus-
tralia. She has lived in Alaska ; off-the-
beaten-track places appeal to her far
more than the suave sophistication of
cities. She and her brother had a number
of Maoriland’s native plants sent to them
in Jersey, planted them in their gardens,
and found they took kindly to the climate.
G.B. intends to send some waratah roots
to Jersey, and maybe in a few years’
time our bush-flower will raise its kingly
head in the gardens of St. Helier.
* * * *
Queensland Opposition-leader Moore
failed in his attempt to have the secre-
tary of the Queensland Police Union
called to the Bar of the House to sub-
stantiate his charges that three Labor
members had “violated sections 92 and
132 of the. Criminal Code” by interfering
with police administration against the
interests of justice. Moore argued that the
charges involved “the dignity and honor
of the House,” but the House was against
him, Arnold Wienholt, the Independent,
voting with the Ministerialists. Accord-
ing to Home Secretary Hanlon, “the
only charges made by Mr. Talty were
that members of Parliament had used
their influence to secure transfers of
police officers” ; and he promised to table
the files.
* * * *
“Cotslo”: North Westralia will be
hard hit if the Belgian embargo on Aus-
tralian meat is not removed ; most of
the output of Wyndham meatworks has
hitherto gone to Antwerp. At present
all thoughts of secesh have been banished
and Premier Collier has demanded the
immediate intervention of the Oppressor
on his State’s behalf. The meatworks
were established by a Labor Govern-
ment of which Collier was a member,
so he has a fatherly interest in the enter-
prise.
Gals’ Gossip from Brisbane
The floral welcome to the Ulysses pas-
sengers was very beautiful. Those respon-
sible made 150 posies and gathered suffi-
cient flowers to decorate every deck of
the ship. Even the stewards sported
buttonholes on their white coats. Captain
Williams expressed his gratitude at a tea-
table function in the dining saloon, and
Sir Arthur Black spoke for the
passengers.
C. E. Sligo, who was editor of the
“Daily Mail” until the merger with the
“Courier,” is joining the “S. M. Herald.”
Former members of his staff met at the
Gresham Hotel one morning and clinked
glasses between words of praise and
goodwill. Norman White was head
spokesman ; Thelma Smith, who ran the
social page for a number of years, blush-
ingly spoke of how the girls loved their
editor. A signed address was presented
to him. Mrs. Sligo packed a little bit of
Queensland in her trunk—a wooden tray.
When the Ulysses, the Changte, the
Nieuw Zeeland and the Mooltan arrived
in Brisbane we turned on the coldest
November day for 30 years. All day
misty rain fell, and disappointed pas-
sengers had to unpack their furs and top-
coats.
The Legacy Club and the C.W.A. will
divide the cheque from the International
Revue. Local dancing teachers forgot
their rivalry and gave H. Blake, the pro-
ducer, an abundance of snappy items,
embracing tableaux, ballets and music.
Consuls and their wives showed interest
and saw that the traditional costumes of
their particular countries were portrayed.
For the Australian set, a dinkum V.C.,
Sergeant H. Dalziel, got his share of
applause. The revue ran for three nights.
Mrs. Hamlyn Harris, who arranged the
entertainment for the monthly guest even-
ing at the Lyceum Club, had a fine selec-
tion of performers. It was a literary
evening, local writers and lecturers fill-
ing the programme. Mrs. W. Young,
Emily Bulcock, Doris Waraker and Mrs.
Firmin McKinnon assisted.
By the death of Mrs. Morton Tweedie,
which occurred suddenly in Sydney,
nearly every charitable organisation in
Brisbane will be a loser. Until last year
the late Mrs. Tweedie lived most of her
time in Brisbane, where she was presi-
dent of the Arts and Crafts and active
in the League of Women Voters.
Ministering angel Sister Lily, of the
City Mission, is discarding her bonnet
and cape for six months. The poor and
sick, whom she ha_s attended daily for very
many years, are sad to think that this
little lady is forced to re-
tire owing to ill-health.
They will miss her. She
has the proud record of
having found employment
for over 80 persons during
the last 14 months.
As the curtains were
drawn at City Hall Clara
Butt bowed and smiled
graciously in white satin
with corsage of dazzling
jewels surrounding a
golden butterfly. Swathed
at one side was a long
supphire scarf lined with
golden tissue, and still
more gold nodded from
Queen of Sheba earrings.
A sheaf of gladioli mixed
with roses red was handed
to her. Mrs. Robert Bell
brought Bonnie, who only
a week before had filled
the hall with her own
admirers. Occupiers of
front seats included music-
lovers Beatrice McCul-
lough, Gladys Frost,
Gwen Timbury, Jack Ellis,
Arthur Boyle, Fred
Homer and Archie Day.
The Anzac Club booked
Sir James and Lady Owen
for their first night here.
They had been good
friends to Diggers during the war.
Friends of the late Archbishop Sharp
desire his memory to be perpetuated. A
cross will be placed in the Anglican
cathedral at New Guinea, where he
labored for 10 years, and over his grave
at Toowong a headstone is to be erected.
Verna, only child of Mrs. E. Rudd,
New Farm, is sparkling a diamond ring
from James, only son of the A. Grahams,
of Indooroopilly. Verna is looking for-
ward to life in New Guinea, where her
future husband manages the Bulolo
Dredging Co.
Helen Hill and M. A. Ogg were respon-
sible for the most laughs at the Women’s
Club when members dressed in Shak-
spearean costumes. Their turn was a
burlesque scene from “Romeo and
Juliet.” Both comedy and tragedy played
their part in an excellent programme,
which will in future always have a place
in the year’s syllabus.
Peter, the very tall son of the Gover-
nor and Lady Wilson, has been tarrying
awhile at Government House before
trekking to Longreach to take over a
property there. He has been enjoying the
social life.
Musicians were drawn to City Hall the
night the Apollo Club, led by Leonard
Francis, celebrated its jubilee with
spirited choruses and part-songs. Percy
Brier, pianist, and baritone Les Edye
supplied some of the best solos, which
were listened to by the Mayoral Greenes
from their official box.
Our antique exhibition will not have
many bare spaces on the shelves. Al-
ready more than 5000 articles have been
promised.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
„ T . £2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHAI.L STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in The Bulletin taKes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
✓V <£ o'*
xV ftV / o'°
> o v
&
&
1^ v
<v
v <A-
~ V er
°>
e ‘
•<? v
ev
,b N 0
SPRING AND
SUMMER
SYDNEY HAS AN
IRRESISTIBLE APPEAL TO
HOLIDAY MAKERS.
Blue skies, a considerate sun, scintillating
ocean and harbor, clean, brilliant, safe
beaches call you now. Gorgeous gardens
ana miles of orchards and farms in their spring
settings add to your pleasure. The Metropole is
m close juxtaposition to all these—as to all theatrical
• l, P ? Ctl i re ? nd ° ther pl easure resorts. Sydneys shops
with their displays are reached by tram. Winter Garden
with Orchestra. Terms from 6/6 per night (room only)
you will combine with economy the greatest comfort. Service is
not the slogan— it is the practice.
KUAKitwurrw
7b
fiLue
8«
r !/
.
M
m
IN QU-EEN 51 BRISBANE
SMOLE-OH!
“The Irish realise that outbreaks of violence
will continue.”
It looks as if Ireland will be the first
country to get back to normal.
“Bakers say that a £5 10s. sales tax on flour
will mean a 10 p.c. increase in the price of
the 41b. loaf.”— “Argus.”
Well, the politicians set a precedent by
adding 10 p.c. on to the price of their
loaf.
What a boon these November winds
are to the holiday-maker who, when he
has finished admiring the landscape, likes
to burn it !
* *
In the bright lexicon of Macquarie-
street, “lobbying” is now known as
“pubbying.”
“Dr. even pawned his brass plate to
buy drink.”
fnstead of signing the pledge he
pledged the sign.
“According to Dr. Burt, Prof, of Psychology
at University College, London, the smaller the
brain the larger the family.”
Is this another insidious attack on our
Prime Minister?
* *
MODERN ADVERTISING.
It you want to dodge gaol, or, that
railing, add to your secret hoard, consult
Lucky Walter, of Smith, Smith, Brown
i Brown-Smith, solicitors. Lucky
Waltei has secured four acquittals and six
firsts lor clients in his last eleven cases,
not to mention a couple of disagreements
and many minor prizes.
Dr. Hacksaw’s Sensational Offer.—ln
addition to the Lucky Hebrew Charm
which the doctor has always given with
operations, he now offers a six hundred
and ninety-seventh share in a State lottery
ticket to all cash patients. One of these
shares may earn
you as much as £1
13s. 4d. The doc.’s
Lucky Charms
have brought fame
and fortune to
dozens of patients.
A tes t i monial:
“Dear Doc., I owe
my life to your
marvellous charm.
After you had
operated on me
three specialists
said I was doomed.
But the Hebrew
charm pulled me
through and I was
only three from a
fiver with the lot-
tery share. Won-
derful v&lue! Yours
faithfully, Dora
Dishwash.”
Stop taking
chances by getting
your vegetables
from barrowmen.
Buy scientifically
from Madam Vito.
Follow the Science
of the Sun. The
mystery of symbols
is translated into
the language of
vegetables. What is
your lucky vege-
table? Madam Vito
will tell you and
guide you to health and economy. Your
future happiness may lie in a cabbage.
Who knows? Be there early to get the
specials on the lucky, day, 29/11/’33.
2 x 9 ll+3 + 3= 13.
You can also have a seventh share in
a lucky pumpkin for And remem-
ber, Madam Vito is working to help St.
Lucre’s Hospital.
* *
“The civilised aborigine of pure blood has
many of the qualities of his ancestors.”
— “Sun”
Just a chip off the old black.
THE INTOLERABLE ASPERSION.
“You heard the witness, accused. He
says you dashed him to the ground ; put
the —er—boot in, and jumped on him as
he lay prostrate.”
“Quite 0.K., y’r Wusship.”
“You admit, then, that without provo-
cation” —
“ ’Oo said it wuz without provocation?
That’s the ’ole point. Wodger think this
cow said about me, y’r Wusship?”
“Something slanderous?”
“Slarnd’ rous! ’E up an’ told the young
lady be’ind the bar I was an M.L.C.! ”
“Hrrmm! Discharged.”
J.
Hitler has definitely abolished trial by
Jewry.
* *
FROM THE “GOOLIGUMBLA
EXPRESS.”
White-ants gnawed down the telegraph-
post opposite the School of Arts last
week. Our termite editor
believes that the per-
petual crooning of the
wires caused them to
imagine they were deal-
ing with a wireless set.
The lecture on prickly-
pear by the Government
expert from Sydney
didn’t start being really
amusing until the visiting
scientist sat down on one
of his samples.
Freak-show proprietors
will regret to hear that
the double-headed calf
born on Skimmitts’s
dairy farm was inadver-
tently put through the
separator yesterday
morning.
The eagle that carried
off the Ramsdens’ pet
lamb on Tuesday brought
it back yesterday. This
proves definitely that
birds know when they
are doing wrong.
It will be remembered
that, some few years ago,
Mr. Jas. Woodger, one
of our best-known woolgatherers, was so
badly gored by a bull that his inside was
ol no further use to him. Noticing this,
our capable medico, Dr. Hoosh, removed
the incapacitated entrails and fitted the
sufferer with a set from a freshly killed
sheep. This week Mr. Woodger was
shorn of a fleece weighing thirty pounds.
L. R.
•v *
“If women would use their undoubted infiu-
ence they could very soon have armaments
abolished. —Melbourne “Herald.”
But what woman would want to be
without some arms about her?
V- if.
This season’s bathing-costumes promise
a happy nude year.
MAKING IT SIMPLER.
“Better methods than those used to elect the
new members of the Legislative Council might
have been employed.”—' “S. M. Herald.”
Quite true. A representative Chinese
citizen might have been delegated to
pick the winners by what is known as
the Chinese Turf System. To blindfold
him and hand him a pin would have been
the work of but a moment. The return-
ing officer having handed him a list of
the candidates, he would merely need to
make 15 stabs a fortnight for eight weeks.
Chinese luck is proverbial, and N. S.
Wales might get a little of it.
Alternatively there might have been
a mental-arithmetic test. Candidates
would have been asked to think of a
number, double it, multiply by 1000,
divide by 204, reduce to terms of pounds,’
shillings and pence, add basic wage,
divide by number of candidate’s family
responsibilities, add Motherhood Endow-
ment, and take away the number first
thought of, less price fixed for eggs by
the Egg Board on the 17th ult. The can-
didates who struck the correct quota
would then be declared elected. The only
objection to this simple method is that
it approximates too closely to the one
already in use.
H. M.
“Sydneyites might learn useful lessons from
the bee.” —Sydney cleric.
Some don’t need to ; after humming
for drinks they sting strangers for money.
* *
CLOSE THINGS.
“Lovely Balloon secured the verdict by a
hear.”— “S. M. Herald.”
It recalls Pigroot’s Melbourne Cup.
Pigroot was a hot favorite, but Bobtail
was the “pea.” The latter’s trainer gave
his instructions to the other jockeys ; but
Pigroot’s jockey, being deaf, didn’t hear
straight and won. So the judge placed
them: Pigroot first by half a hear from
Bobtail, with Cabnag a long whisper away
third.
On many occasions, of course, races
have been won by shouts —mostly in
THE BOSS: “I wish you wouldn’t look so worried.
Jones; you’ve put us to the expense of having
the auditors in for nothing at all.”
bars. Others have been won by thinks,
dirty looks and winks. But the book-
makers always win in the end by howls
and yells.
* * s-
u-^ V !] at o C S uld be meaner than this man who
robbed Sydney newsboys?”— “Sun."
Such men even shake our faith in
humanity.
THE PERFECT*SYSTEM.
“I’ve devised a racing system,” said
Currycomb, “that actually pays. It’s
common knowledge that there are scores
or systems which turn up trumps at
times, but they all beat you in the end.
My formula never fails. I haven’t had
a losing Saturday for months.”
“Come on,” said Snaffles. “Get to the
point. What do you do?”
“I buy a newspaper which prints in
catalogue form the tips of its contem-
poraries; study the trials, weights and
torm, make my selections”
“Yes, yes.”
Then I go home, have lunch and do
the garden.”
P. C.
* *
, “ Tbe was equipped with laws like a
nap. Sunday Sun."
One of these legal sharks, no doubt.
FROM THE HORSE’S MOUTH.
“Those unaffected with the virus of malice
will appreciate the very satisfactory result of
the first Council ballot, and be disposed to
encourage the Government and the bulk of
Parliamentarians to pursue the sound lines of
choice on which they have begun.”— “S. M
Herald.”
/ was stanain’ this mornin’ in Sydney, at
the corner of ’Unter and Pitt,
When I see an old girl in a bonnet, with
“S.M.H.” written on it.
She gives me a tap on the shoulder, and
bids me a civil “goo’-day,”
An’ then, with ’er eyes turned to ’Eaven’s
blue skies, these soul-stirrin’ words
she did say :
“Don't get affected with virus; sensible
tribunes with votes
Scorn to ’ave virus of malice. Virus is
on’y fer goats.
Just pick on someone with money ; get
within range of ’is voice ;
Find out what odds ’e’s lay in’, and then
make a sound line of choice.’’
Two winners strolled parst at the moment,
and then we saw one or two more.
The old lady’s eyes shone with pleasure.
“My ’eroes!” she wheezes; “I’m
shore
The results of the next Council ballot
will make us all feel just as gay
As we did when we learned of the last
batch returned. An’ now once again
let me say :
“How’re things with you these depression days?”
“Fine! Never had so many bagmen wanting to buy me
drinks."
“Don’t get affected with virus. Never
mix virus an’ votes.
Don t be malicious. Remember, malice
won’t earn you no notes.
Pick on some starter with money ; get
within range of his voice,
Tell ’im the odds you’re after. ’E’ll soon
make a sound, line of choice.”
M. L. C.
OUT AND HOME.
I m very fond of horses.
My footsteps never lag
When dashing off to courses
To hack my special nag.
But, when the race is finished,
My footsteps always lag
As I go, cash diminished,
Back to my special nag.
D. R. K.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Hall Mark came out of the Derby
race with a split heel. He was so lame
after galloping on the Monday that he
was announced as a doubtful starter. The
decision was left to the vets, and after
unremitting treatment they gave their
sanction and the little chestnut took his
place in the field of 18 —Regal Son and
Trivento were among the scratchings. For
a time Hall Mark challenged Rogilla’s
position as favorite, the pair being at
5 to 2, but while the older horse’s price
remained firm the colt’s eased to fours.
Topical had strong support at eights and
Pretzel at nines ; of the others, Oro (12
to 1) and Nord (14 to 1) were most in
demand, and a few pounds went on
Shadow King, competing for his fifth
Cup, at 100 to 3.
Kellow and Holt made no mistake
when they gave the mount on Hall Mark
to the Sydney youngster O’Sullivan. He
got the colt away briskly and settled in
behind the pacemakers, Flail and Metal-
lurgy, having the run of the race on the
rails. He let Hall Mark have his head
two furlongs from home, and the chest-
nut ran past Gaine Carrington, who had
taken the lead, and with a furlong to
go was a length or so in front. But his
heel began to worry him ; Gaine Car-
rington came again ; Shadow King and
Topical joined in ; and O’Sullivan had to
ride all he knew. Hall Mark stuck it
Bert/'I dont fancy his chance'?
eiERT‘, // | DO, „lM <qOlN<q TO BACK HIM*
&PRT: "w&s> CROOK IN THE- YllNo’.
G»ert‘/But rrs a beautiful calm day’!
with great courage, and, with 90,000
excited people urging them on, they
flashed past the post—Hall Mark, first,
a head in front of Shadow King; Topi-
cal and Gaine Carrington together, an-
other head away. There has never been
a more exciting finish or a grittier per-
formance on the part of the winner.
As the race was run, Topical was the
unlucky horse. McCarten had to ease
him when making his run, and when
the way was clear it was just too late.
Pretzel finished at a great bat a length
behind the third pair ; he had been last
at the three-furlong post. Nord had
beaten Topical in their final gallop at
Williamstown ; then the fretful little half-
brother to Statesman went off his feed.
In any case the slow pace was against
him, and also against Rogilla, who fin-
ished fifteenth —the two miles occupied
3min. 27isec. Hall Mark has two strains
of Carbine blood in his pedigree ; hence
his, stamina and courage. He is now
enjoying a spell.
Chatham had his sixth win for the
season in the Linlithgow Stakes. He
made hacks of Waltzing Lily, Palphar and
L’Elite over the mile, and the price (10
to 9 on) was unexpectedly liberal. Pike
was on top, as usual, but will ride no
more for two months. The stewards
retired him for that period, pronouncing
him guilty of interference when piloting
Sun Clad in the Byron Moore Stakes.
Sydney owners and jockeys almost
swept the board on the concluding day
of the meeting, winning five races. Jockey
Maurice McCarten led off by taking the
Batman Stakes on Blixten. He followed
up by piloting Cavalcade to victory in
the youngsters’ race for colts and geld-
ings ; then he finished third in the C. B.
Fisher Plate on Kuvera. By clever horse-
manship McCarten annexed the V.R.C.
Handicap on Oro, and he had an easy
winning mount on Queen Helen in the
Ottawa Stakes (for two-year-old fillies).
McCarten weighed out for Turbine in
the Final Handicap and gained second
place. Six mounts for four wins, a third
and a second. No other jockey ever
has done so well at a Melbourne Cup
meeting. In 1888 Tom Hales had 15
mounts for 11 wins at the V.R.C. autumn
meeting. On the opening day he rode
four winners in succession—Essendon
Stakes on Carlyon, Ascot Vale Stakes
on Volley, St. Leger on Abercorn and
the Newmarket on Cranbrook.
There was no disposition on the part
of punters to hang a garland of flowers
around the neck of Rogilla after he led
home the C. B. Fisher Plate field. On
the contrary, many people on the flat
and a fair proportion of stand and hill
patrons gave way to hooting as the chest-
nut returned to scale. He started at 6 to
4 in a field of five, meeting the others
on standard weight-for-age terms. Darby
Munro took care that the race should be
soundly run. He moved up smartly at
the mile post and deprived Waltzing
Lily of control seven furlongs from
home. After that it was a case of “pay
out.” Though under severe pressure all
the way down the straight, Gaine Car-
rington could not get nearer than a length
to Rogilla. The Caulfield Cup winner
was ridden by E. Bartle,
Maoriland horses had their share of
success at the meetings. Golden Hair
(Limond—Lady Cavendish) won three
events on end, including the Oaks, for
G. F. Moore, while Ruling Light, owned
by W. T. Hazlett, was the medium of a
big betting coup in the second division
of the Yan Yean Stakes on Cup day.
W. R. Kemball, who originally resided
:n Melbourne but now has extensive
picture-theatre interests in the Dominion,
has a large string of horses under the
care of George Jones at Caulfield. He
sent three of them —Cavalcade, Chief
Mark and William —up for auction on
the day after the Oaks, and each changed
hands. Cavalcade was bought privately
by W. Gibbs on behalf of Ross Saywell.
Saddled up for the Flemington Stakes
in the new ownership on Saturday, this
Chief Ruler colt scored easily. It was
bad luck for Kemball to have parted with
the youngster on the verge of a victory,
but Kemball’s turn came in the Ottawa
Stakes, which Queen Helen, a daughter
of Chief Ruler, appropriated.
The manner in which McCarten out-
generalled other jockeys in the V.R.C.
Handicap earned him widespread praise.
McCarten took Oro to the front six fur-
longs from home, slowed down the field,
and then clapped on speed suddenly. He
snatched an advantage which turned
the scale in Oro’s favor. Jack King’s
representative was all out to beat the
strongly-finishing Greenhorn by three-
quarters of a length. Maltdale’s win in
the Final Handicap made J. S. Brunton
a proud owner. He scored with Quarto
on Cup day and with Mananna on the
Thursday. George Price trains the un-
dependable Maltdale, but the other two
horses are in the Mentone stable of A.
Ferguson.
The Williamstown Cup still has to be
decided. This Page like’s Kelso’s pair,
Nord and Topical, Nord for preference.
* * * *
Country-owned and -trained horses
won three races at Canterbury Park.
Brazenface set the ball rolling when
he captured the Anzac Flying Handicap,
at 7 to 2, from Bouyeo and Gayhawk.
His task was made easier by the solid
pace set by Bouyeo and Bonne Sante.
Poponaise—like Brazenface, from the
west —completed a hat-trick when he an-
nexed the first division of the Highweight
Handicap from Omagh and Orpah. He
started at fives, due to the support for
Queue, who went out at 5 to 4. Queue
shaped well while his condition lasted,
and finished fourth.
Happyendo, from the southern dis-
tricts, gave the bookies a turn in the
second division of the Highweight; he
started at eights, King Pin, Raleigh and
Pennyhunter being better fancied. King
Pin let his party down despite his good
track work during the week.
Bert Jolley, a Hurstville man, and
Randwick trainer Keith Duggan have a
smart galloper in The Black Cat, by
Tippler out of a Rossendale mare, Ros-
senle. Starting at 6 to 1, The Black Cat
made hacks of the opposition in the
youngsters’ race, leading throughout to
win easily from the favorite. Lady Glit-
ter, and Short Wave. The Black Cat was
a quiet tip for the Breeders’ Plate, but
played up at the barrier.
Maoriland sportsman W. Higgins, who
is on the committee of the Wellington
club, secured a bargain when he paid 75
guineas for the Paper Money filly After
Money, who, starting at twos, won the
second division of the Park Stakes from
Nerowie and Prince’s Daughter. Her
dam, Afterglow, won two St. Legers in
the Dominion. After Money’s stable-
mate Safari was all the rage for the
Armistice Handicap. He looked trained
to the minute, but could only run a poor
fourth. Nine-year-old Flinders, who was
backed from tens to sevens, put in a long
run on the outside from the half-mile
and won by five lengths from Hurry
Scurry and Rogerson. Flinders had been
out of the winning list for over 12
months.
Dick Wootton’s Dignity colt Assertive
(7 to 1) caused a surprise when he led all
the way in the Ashbury Handicap to beat
Gold Mag and Fine Salt. The hot favorite,
Leone, was well beaten at the turn, and
Gravure shaped just as poorly. His
owner intends to retire from racing in
Jan., but will continue to breed horses.
* A 2 &
For Rosehill on Saturday:—-
Trial Stakes: Recognise ; next, Jonker.
Clyde Handicap: Legislator; next,
Mesha.
November Handicap: Pantilla ; next,
Cherbourg.
Rydalmere Mile: Zeus ; next, After
Money.
•e * * *
Many Queenslanders believe, with all
respect to Hall Mark, that Soft Step, by
Spearfelt —E’en Step, is the best colt of
the year. They claim that he was un-
lucky when beaten by Waikare in the
Derby ; and they did not lose faith in
his Queensland Cup chance, sending the
brown colt out at twos —this though he
had Bst. and Rivalli (10 to 1), a winner
on the first day at w.f.a., had only 21b.
more. Nicely ridden by Spencer, Spear-
felt’s son came with a fine run on the
rails at the right end, and beat Rivalli
(son of Rivoli) by a neck, with Bache-
lor’s Aid (8 to 1) a fair third. On a
dead track Soft Step traversed the two
miles in 3min. 26isec. —lsec. faster than
Hall Mark’s time. Presumably he will
come south for the autumn meetings.
* * * *
Winooka has been beaten in an-
other race in Maryland, and is to be
spelled for a few months. Meanwhile
Naylor, Poison and Britt are returning
to Sydney. In one way and another
the bookmaker-owners have dropped a
heap of money on the venture; but
Naylor professes to be confident that it
will show a profit some day.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
After losing to Jimmy Kelso on points
in their first battle in Sydney, “Tod”
Morgan levelled matters up at Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night, the points
decision for the 15-round mill going his
way this time. Kelso had all the better
of the first seven rounds, but Morgan
improved with punching and fairly out-
fought his man to the finish of a whirl-
wind set-to. Morgan scaled 9st. 10 4-lb.
and Kelso 9st. lHlb.
* * * *
“Whiskers” Blake and “Thunderbolt
Jack” Patterson wrestled at Leichhardt
on Saturday. “Whiskers ' made Patter-
son look like a selling-plater from the
first bell, and gained a fall with his flying
body-scissors and press in the third
round. In the fourth, however, he missed
with a flying tackle, and his head hit the
mat hard enough to knock him out for
the night.
Ins and Outs •
On its way back from Queensland the
N.S.W. Sheffield Shield side played New-
castle in a two-day match which gave
the tourists some batting practice. New-
castle got together 145 and 151 for six
wickets, Donnelly making 77 and 24.
N.S.W. closed with 453 down for six.
Bradman (183) scored his customary cen-
tury, and Brown added a 61 to his
record. McCabe hit up a fast 98.
O’Reilly was kept well on the chain, and
only bowled some exhibition overs.
* * * *
“Magpie”: Following on a long-stand-
ing and bitter barge between Collingwood
Council and the Victorian C. A. over the
respective tenures of Victoria Park sports
ground by the local football and cricket
clubs, it is possible that the famous
cricket organisation, one of the oldest in
Victoria, will disband for the season at
least, its members going to other clubs,
since their own has now no playing area
of its own. There seems a chance here
for Jack Ryder, the international
cricketer, who is known as the “King of
Collingwood,” to exercise the royal pre-
rogative.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Australian barrackers
may be ruffians, but none of them put in
the boot as some of the Indian variety
have been doing. Amritsar Municipal
Council voted £5O for the entertainment
of Jardine and his merry men when they
came to town to tackle the Southern
Punjab. The local ratepayers’ association
stepped in and got an injunction re-
straining the council from misapplying
the funds in this fashion, so, presumably,
the municipal cupboard was bare when
Jardine and his following got there.
* * * *
“Five Ways”: The abject showing of
the Queensland cricketers against N.S.W.
calls fresh attention to the deterioration
in the standard of the State’s cricket dur-
ing the past two or three seasons. To me
it seems due to the return of the Banana-
landers to a bad practice which ruined
their cricket for years —the importation
of second- or third-raters, to the exclu-
sion of promising youngsters, who
never got a chance to show their possi-
bilities. This ceased, and there grew up
a team of local players which included
men of such class as Hornibrook and
Oxenham.
* * * *
“Molly”: “Landsdowne” (B. 8/11/’33)
hath me on the hip. In my dissertation
on English left-hand batsmen I did for-
get Woolley, just as Randolph Churchill
“forgot Goschen.” We both overlooked
William Gunn, partner of Shrewsbury
and a big figure in the Tests of the
’eighties and early ’nineties. William
came this way on one occasion only, with
Shaw and Shrewsbury’s 1886-87 side.
The Gunn mentioned by “L.” as doing
so well in Australia in 1911-12 was not
John of that ilk but George, and he was
a right-hander.
(Continued on page 26.)
The Rugby League Kangaroos lost the
second Test match with the Northern
Union by 7-5. Each side scored a try,
the tourists converting theirs. Two penal-
ties by Sullivan swung the verdict in
England’s favor. The third and final
Test will be played at Swinton on
December 16.


TOOHEYS
*\pa 'iac/P;
YOUR. ENJOYMENT
//
m m
feW * .rc
1 'l2
-rT\
*
WI3
r,
m
%b
' ■
. •g'ZO
i
m
■-
% S^c4 1
v -/
.111^8
k
10
&
IV
I
lift 1
■■
m mm
r
w
Fi
<*
\
■; ■
A X
S 3
If.
r-*p
Every Bottle of
Tooheys is
full of life-giving
vitamins. Brewed
and bottled with-
out any preserva-
tives whatever.


Yon Love lour family,
BUT-
HAVE you given practical expression to it by protecting their
welfare and ensuring them a steady income under all cir-
cumstances.
No man can guarantee to live —the unexpected sometimes happens.
Provision must he made for it and it is so easy to do the P. & C.
way.
For example, in the event of death or permanent disablement
before 20 years from date of this policy the income of £l2/10/-
per month for each £lOOO of his assurance is produced. In
addition at. the end of the 20 year period, the full amount of
the policy will be paid. .
For the safety of your loved ones and your own peace of mind,
act now. Full particulars gladly sent without obligation to you.
The policy quoted is but one of a very wide range of policies
designed to take care of your every need, issued by the P. & C.
THE PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
CO-OPERATIVE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED,
221 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
H. FELL.
Managing Director:
Chairman of Directors:
Hon. A. K. TRETHOWAN, M.L.C.
;u\q r
above a
The KISMET Pressure Gauge is a precision instru
nient that cannot tell a lie. It gives immenia • ■
truthful, accurate readings of your tyre pres-ui ■'■
'To use the KISMET Pressure Gauge regularly means safety,
comfort and economy of your tyres. The figures on the P< ■
scale surface are calibrated in lib. units and are
CLEAR AND VISIBLE.
Apart from its unequalled accuracy and legibility, the KISMET
Pressure Gauge is finished like a jewel— the finest gauge on the market.
Price'll 0 10/6 MiSUF.ICTUEE.
s „e
KISMET
Representative:
John Arnold, 38G Post Office Place, Melbourne.
ins and Outs
“Hotham”: The Board of Control
meeting which the Queensland and Vic-
torian diehards have insisted on call-
ing in Melbourne this week to hold a
bodyline post-mortem will cost the
board at least £3OO, though the result is a
foregone conclusion. It wouldn’t be a
bad idea for the board to make frivolous
objectors of this kind pay for their fun.
This could be done, by deducting the
costs from the shares in the profits of the
next English tour of the States giving all
ihe trouble.
* * * *
The opening matches of the Sheffield
Shield season brought disaster to Queens-
land and South Australia. In Brisbane
the home players made a feeble showing
in both innings, and as they could get
only four N.S.W. players out for 494, the
verdict against them was an innings and
171 runs. O’Reilly added 7 for 53 to his
first innings bag, making his figures for
the match 13 for 111. F. Mair took 3
for 30 in the home side’s second attempt.
In Adelaide, Victoria overcame South
Australia by 268 runs. Victoria closed
their second at 5 for 431 ; Ponsford
122 and Rigg 123. Grimmett did not get
a wicket this time. A gallant innings of
102 by Vic. Richardson was the feature
of South Australia’s second essay. With
no one else to help, the innings ended at
231. Ironmonger came to light with 6 for
65, and Fleetwood-Smith got 3 for 74.
:|s * * *
Looking over the opening Sheffield per-
formances —it is a bit early, perhaps, to
begin criticism —nothing very remark-
able in the way of new hopes has come
to light. In the N.S.W. match with
Queensland the interesting item was the
scoring of 154 by Brown, this being his
first Sheffield Shield century. Born in
Queensland 21 years ago Brown came off
against the Jardinians in Sydney last sea-
son by notching 69 and 25 as an open-
ing batsman. He is so young that all the
traditions are against his selection for a
trip to England until some years on, but
if he goes along on present lines there
is no knowing what might happen. In
Adelaide the good start made by Pons-
ford heartened his admirers, as did Victor
Richardson’s determined century. K. E.
Rigg, who is hardly a newcomer to the
big stuff, did well, but all the left-handers
failed to top the heights we should have
liked to see them reach. Nitschke, Brom-
ley, O’Brien and Darling played just
ordinarily mediocre Sheffield cricket.
Grimmett, after a paralysing first innings
success, flopped hideously in the second.
Ironmonger had his triumph in the
second and did no good in the first.
Fleetwood-Smith’s 6 for 61 and 3 for 74
was the only hopeful performance among
the bowlers engaged.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: A queer cricket happen-
ing cropped up in Sydney in a match
between St. George and Northern Dis-
trict. A bowler sent down a ball far out
of the batsman’s reach. lust as the ump.
opened his mouth to call the wide, the
batsman hit the ball to the fence for four
by the simple expedient of* throwing
his bat at it. If we could only introduce
this spirit of enterprise into Test cricket,
perhaps we should hear less of bodyline
and off-theory bowling.
$ * * *
“Fitzcray”: In addition to the special
business for which it was convened, the
Board of Control meeting in Melbourne
this week will grab the chance to deal
with some minor matters. Among these
will be consideration of the South African
invitation to tour the Union in 1935-36
and the Westralian proposal for inter-
state matches between Tasmanian and
Westralian representative sides and
second teams from the other States.
Arrangements for the forthcoming Eng-
lish tour will also be set in motion. The
selected team will be announced on Feb-
ruary 1, and the tourists go on the field
against Worcestershire on May 2.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sandringham”: Recent comment on
holing-in-one records in various parts of
the world reminds me that Victoria can
claim one which is never likely to be
equalled, let alone beaten. Scene, Wood-
lands course; the player, Dicken-
son by name, sliced his tee shot at the
first hole. The ball took a tremendous
curve round a group of trees and, con-
tinuing its “bender” after striking the
ground, came to rest in the hole on the
18th green, thus enabling the striker to
assert with a certain amount of truth
that he had done the entire course “in
one.”
* * * *
“Brassey”: Whether the Victorian
centenarians like it or not (B. 11/10/’33),
Kirkwood and Sarazen are adhering to
their original intention of showing in
Australia in February. They have fixed
up a programme for Honolulu on the
way over from the States and one in
Japan after leaving this country, and will
have to run to schedule. They have
asked that 30 exhibition matches be ar-
ranged in Australia and require no
guarantees. Five matches at least are
asked for in Sydney, and the charge will
be ss.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: Though the St.
Andrews rules committee recently steeled
itself to “redd up” the rules of golf so
“So ’e’s chucked the game?”
“Yairs— bin on ’ees back so often the arc-lights 'ave given 'im eyestrain.”
tr,
as to make them more understandable to
the mug, it candidly admits being un-
able to define the question of amateur
status, which it has left in the
before. The matter is complicated by
the intrusion of many gifted amateurs
into the business of supplying golfing
requisites and advising on golf clothing,
as Joyce Wethered has done. Perhaps it
would be a step in the right direction o
give a clear-cut dennition of what consti-
tutes a professional. The recognised law
on that subject defines a pro. as one tak-
ing money for playing or teaching golf or
for making golfing implements and acces-
sories for sale. Golf clubs are now
turned out in thousands by manutactur-
ing firms and sold in all sorts of shops.
Would the young amateur behind the
counter come under this law for - select-
ing clubs for a customer and selling
them on the firm’s behalf?
Racquet and Bawi
“Rushie”: Crawford’s form in the
inter-State tennis match between N.S.W.
and Victoria was a revelation to many
who thought they had him sized up as
a player. After his previous trips abroad
he did not show the improvement ex-
pected. This time he has come back a
30 per cent, more formidable performer
in all departments than when he left.
There are not many men playing first-
class tennis to-day who could obliterate
a player of Hopman's type as he did in
their singles meeting, and he was just as
efficient in tne doubles. Better than all
that are an evident increase in self-con-
fidence and the disappearance of the
“don’t-care-a-damn” complex which so
often used to mar his play.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: G. R. Hughes, skipper of
the English team which will be assembled
in Sydney by the time this is in print, is
generally regarded in Australia as a
doubles player only. He has outstanding
singles victories to his credit, including a
defeat of Cochet. A much-t ravel led
player who has toured South Africa with
a British team, he knows the courts of the
Continent well, having figured in most of
.
the big meetings with success. He is not
laying odds on his team’s chances of
downing the pick of Australia in the
forthcoming matches, either.
*** . *
“Stentor”: Much has been said about
the claims tennis makes on its leading ex-
ponents. Plenty of people want to know
what the champions who tour their own
countries as well as visiting others for
tournaments do to keep off the dole. As
far as our English visitors are concerned,
the answer is easy. Hughes is a sporting
goods expert with Dunlops. Perry is in
the advertising business, but hopes some
day to become a jazz-band proprietor.
Lee is a chartered accountant, but is
addicted to studying philosophical works,
Wilde, who is only a youngster yet, is the
only one of the quartette who cannot
claim a definite profession or occupation.
Car and Cycle
“Fitzcray”: The Light Car Club of
Australia is running a 12-hour time and
reliability trial on November 26, the
route to be taken covering about 260
miles from Melbourne through the Dan-
denongs and round a circuit back to the
start. Points will be awarded for run-
ning to a time schedule (early or late
arrivals being both docked), two hill
climbs and an observed hill climb.
* * *
“Formula”: Victoria seems to grow
motor-car clubs as freely as cabbages.
The Junior Car Club, one of the latest,
is opening its season on November 19
with a meeting at Nar-nar-goon, where
the track has been re-designed. It now
includes a hairpin bend and three right-
angle turns, which bring the lap length
to 9} furlongs. There will be four events,
including handicaps for 850 c.c. and
400 c.c. classes, and handicap and
scratch events for all powers. A shot
will be made at setting up a good track
record.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: The tour-of-Tasmania
bike race over a 650-mile run came to an
end after a week’s riding, the winner turn-
ing up in Fatty Lamb. The final stage was
over the 100 miles from Burnie to Laun-
ceston, and in this Lamb cleared right
away from his field. All the same, the
veteran Victorian , rider Thomas finished
in the grand aggregate only one second
behind Lamb, whose figures were 46hr.
lmin. 20sec.
Miscellaneous
“Third Base”: Australian baseballers
are now practically certain of seeing some
of the great American professionals in
action next year. Earl Mack, coach ot
Philadelphia Athletics, proposes to leave
’Frisco in October with a representative
team, visiting Japan, the Philippines and
Australia, and returning to America by
January, 1935. Ruth, mightiest of baseball
hitters, has been invited, but has not yet
approached the dotted line. The visit will
have to be sanctioned by the American
baseball heads, since the rules forbid
teams or players to shape up after
November 1. No trouble is expected in
getting the necessary visas.
$ * * *
“Stand Off”: Australian Rugby Union
followers are bucked at the news that the
All Blacks will come over next season.
It was expected we should not see the
Maorilanders until 1935, but the British
International Board has put the clock
forward by asking the Shivery Islanders
to go over there for 1935-36 instead of
holding to the original arrangement for
1936-37. The M.L. folk have asked Aus-
tralia for a short tour, and that towards
the end of the season. Matches will have
to be played in Sydney, Brisbane and
Melbourne at least, and it is hard to see
how a shorter programme than eight
games can be managed.
* * * *
“Shell”: It is likely that Bob Pearce
may be seen in Australia after all. He
has written E. Kenny, of the Australian
Rowing Council, to say that if invited he
might have a shy at the sculling events
held in connection with the Victorian cen-
tenary jamboree. Toronto is holding a
centenary in July, and if the dates could
be made to fit in Pearce would be able
to show in both countries, especially as
his employers, Dewars, have large inter-
ests in Australia, and might be able to
give him a busman’s holiday at this end.
Sydney is also after Pearce for a pro-
posed world’s championship on the Parra-
matta, and as there is a lot of money
being talked of in connection with the
Victorian and Ma State proposition the
ex-Olympic amateur champion should be
able to pick up some chicken feed.


A GALLERY OF GOLFERS.
No. 13.
Indooroopilly Identities.
Indooroopilly, a rural hamlet up the
nver from Brisbane, is proud of its club
as being largely home-made. It was
boin only eight years ago at a meeting
by A. Boultbee, who became
fo e don ' seC- °lhers there were H.
C. Morrow—president without a break
until last year J. H. Cannan, G. S.
Crouch, H. S. Cubitt, F. M. Eyers,
James Forsyth, S. Francis, W. M.
Lestrange, F. Pace and R. C. Philp. The
founders took options on the land
selected for the course to be. One by
on ® ey we . re exerc ised until at last the
club found itself a freeholder with some
127 acres 111 hand.
The course is a picturesque one, with
the Brisbane River on one side and Sandy
Creek meandering through the links and
providing some sporting hazards. There
is a lot to be done before Indooroopilly
can be counted as up to championship
standards. The fairways are in process
or regrassing, and it is satisfactory to find
the introduced blue couch taking kindly
to the new environment. There was a
time when members eschewed golf at
W£ j ' enc ls and threw down the mashie
and the niblick to take up the shovel and
the hoe. One Saturday 36 of these stal-
warts worked right through the day in
this fashion, and, considering that there
was then no nineteenth hole and that the
nearest pub was miles away, they must
be said to have acquired merit.
• t he a" 181 permanent secretary was and
£ u \ Gm > away on leave ust 110w '
He has been an asset to the club and is
a golfer of note, having won the Austra-
lian amateur title in 1906 and the Queens-
land on a couple of occasions. The
Ai/Mr Se W u formally opened in 1926 by
Wilham McCormack, then Premier.
Frith has not given us a very long
list of the lads who make up the In-
dooroopilly membership. First out of the
barrier is R. W. Docker, who has fallen
ott in his game since matrimony lured
him from the more serious matter of his
handicap. He is still marked down on
9-/, but is playing a lot worse than that,
He was runner-up in the club champion-
ship not so long ago, and enthusiasts are
lamenting his fall from the ranks of canny
single men. A Woolworth man in busi-
ness hours. Gordon Stewart, follow-
ing on, is easily distinguished as a Digger
by the rather hard-lined face and the one-
pip mo with which Frith has endowed
him. The fact that he smelt powder with
the M.L. forces doesn’t affect the case.
He sells British motor-cars and would be
a really good golfer if he could only putt,
Third comes F. J. Messervy, who once
played county cricket in England. His
carefree smile suggests his handicap does
not faze him an iota. He is on a long
mark and likely to stay there ; in the
Commonwealth Bank. After him, and
supporting his inseparable pipe, we have
J. W. Parsons, a long-marker who pre-
fers mid-week games to competitions at
the week-end. He is a Brisbane financial
authority and one of the club’s biggest
debenture holders. In fifth place is W.
D. Little, who is acting as secretary. In
the past he made a name for him-
self in many branches of sport until he
hurled himself into the abyss of golf as
a foundation member of the Brisbane
G. C.—Queensland’s oldest club,
No. 6 is W. M. Lestrange, committee-
man and member of the Arboratum com-
mittee. This last high-sounding office
merely means that he helps to look after
tree-planting on the course. He is with
City Electric Light and would play better
golf if he paid less attention to sailing.
At 7 behold W. Ranger, club captain
and very popular with the lads of the
village. He led the B pennant team to
victory last year, winning all his six
matches, and will probably head A divi-
sion this season. He manages the commit-
tee directing Queensland’s fruit-marketing
and served with the Imperial forces in
the dust-up with Fritz. On his heels
follows F. Pace, assistant treasurer, whose
grimly scrutinising gaze suggests that he
is writing-off his drive as a total loss. He
is an accountant at the head office of the
Q. N. Bank. The man with the “on-
your-oath-witness” expression can be
picked in one as a barrister He is G
Seaman, who was a junior counsel in
the Mungana case. He is a golfer of
parts, having taken the club champion-
ship in 1930 and 1932. A very hard
man to beat in match play.
Tenth in the procession is W. H.
Michael, a middle-marker who is likely to
be put back shortly, having picked up
one or two minor competitions. He is a
director of Taylor and Elliott, the whole-
sale druggists. On 11 stands L. E. Con-
rad, popular with all in the club save the
handicapper. One day he plays better
than par golf; the next he qualifies for
the limit mark. No one, including him-
self, knows which tap he is going to
turn on until he starts.
Twelfth comes A. T. Biggs, member of
a Brisbane printing firm. A steady golfer
but apt just now to muse on the merits
of a new baby rather than on the short-
comings in his game. F. M. Eyers sue-
ceeds. A member of the committee,
his golf has been described by an ad-
mirei as energetic. When not ener-
gising, e is a member of Atcherley and
Sfw S r’,^ n «,,fr r T re p" f t ndooro °-
w y T pinnS L ;S, n gC rH S
f
nf ?
, . .f ... , , 0 en , tnt o
ofmwhereLe U he h
mar j c
No 15 eazine reflect.' velv over the
herds of m 8 o“ eC c„bU is W
Ranger, one of the youngest members
but already a class player in the A team,
He suffers from the aviation complex and
it is feared that flying may lure him away
from the terra firma sport. N. Jameson
looks as if he is either sneering bitterly
at a foozle or smiling in quiet triumph
at a screamer—Frith has given him an
indefinite expression which might stand
for either ; a partner in Troup, Harwood,
accountants, and plays a fair long-mark
game.
H. C. Morrow (17) is now president of
the Q.G.C.; a tireless worker for the club
and managing director of Morrows,
Ltd. D. J. Jolly is an old cricketer, and
is apt to carry his one-time fondness for
the hook shot into his golf; in business
one of the directors of Watson, Fergu-
son, printers. G. S. Crouch, nineteenth to
line up, is the club president and a foun-
dation member; a former inter-State
cricketer and manager of the 1912 Aus-
tralian XI in England. After him is Jules
Moxon, committeeman and managing
director of Moxon’s Motors. Jules is a
member of the A team and was runner-
up in last year’s club championship,
J. C. Rowsell is a medium-marker who
also shines with the Sandgate club, of
which he is president. Away from golf
he is a clothing manufacturer. Jovial E. J.
Dixon, last in the line-up, is captain of
the B team. With a style to make the
angels weep J.E. gets there just the same,
Away from the links, one of the heads
of the Dixon boot manufacturing
business.
“Argot”: One of the afflictions of our
a g e j s t h e employment of the Freudian
j ar g Qn which maunders of “inhibi-
lions," “complexes” and similar things
» hich »■><= people indicate in simpler
terms. There signs that this irri.at-
i"B affectation is spreading to reports of
games. One commentator remarked of
* “
veloped a complex. This means, I sup-
poSe ’ that he got the wind up ’ dropped
his Why no. say so?
Divot Digger : Ever since Aus-
tralian’s new building was erected at
Kensington (N.S.W.), necessitating as it
did a change in the original layout
of the course, there has been con-
tinuous argument among the members
as to the merits of the change. Several
heated meetings have dealt with the sub-
ject, but the barge has been settled at last,
Yet another layout, plotted by profes-
sionals East and Mackenzie, has been
adopted, and this will mean the making
of four additional greens. The first hole
will be played along the old sixth fair-
way, with the green to the right of the
plateau it occupies at present.


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
CLASSING THE CLIP.
“Lion”: “Murrawong” (B. 1/11/’33)
has either missed the point of my re-
marks or drawn a wrong conclusion. If
an owner understands his business
thoroughly, recognises the counts in
wool, knows a Continental requirement
from a Bradford and a combing from a
warp, he should be able to class his clip
unaided, whether the broker says it is
well done or not.
One of the biggest factors to contend
with in classing is yield ; this is thor-
oughly understood only by competent
woolbuyers and appraisers. Men who
class sheds have much to learn in this
part of their job. Some would never
learn it. It is an art. So hard is it to do
accurately in some cases that South
African Cape snow-whites are sold
under a guaranteed yield in London by
one or other of the very few men who
can do it. This is supposed to be the
hardest wool in the world of which to
estimate the yield correctly.
If an owner knows enough about keep-
ing his sheep true to the type of wool he
is breeding, why should it be necessary
to employ someone else to class it for
him? If he is capable of the one, within
limits he should be capable of the other.
If he is only an owner of sheep, without
wool knowledge, then a classer is essen-
tial in order to obtain good results.
Our wool at one time was classed by
a professional appraiser. He showed us
a good deal. He said that if an owner
knew the correct counts of wool, kept
the bright free wools of the one length
and of, say, 70-74’s count together, cast-
ing out any conditioned fleeces, then,
with the aid of commonsense, he should
be able to class his clip himself. This
was only the main point of his remarks.
His advice was at all times excellent, and
was honestly given.
A clip must be kept true to its original
lines and never “forced.” If these things
are faithfully done, why shouldn’t an
owner class his clip as well as a classer?
We class ours, and fare just as well
on the open market as our neighbors
who pay a classer. The proof of the
quality of your work is the price received
at auction, and not what the broker or
any other man says about it. As “Murra-
wong” remarks, the lower lines are an im-
portant feature and need careful watch-
ing, and if the owner is there classing he
can give them the attention necessary.
Many graziers can class their own wool
as well as the average classer, leaving
exceptionally good men out either way,
and “Murrawong’s” 5 p.c. seems mighty
small to me.
lODINE DEFICIENCY.
“J.A.S.”: The C.5.1.R., after experi-
ment and research, has pronounced that
there is probably no iodine deficiency in
Australia. In a carefully conducted ex-
periment at Moree (N.S.W.), where two
lots of sheep were kept from birth under
exactly similar conditions (except that
one group received an iodised lick and
the other the same lick without iodine),
not the slightest difference was detected
in quantity or quality of the wool clip,
weight and general health of the jum-
bucks, nor even of the iodine content of
the thyroid gland.
The C.S.I.R. conducted examinations of
the thyroids of sheep from many locali-
ties, and found that the average iodine
content is well above normal. Our pas-
tures are generally deficient in calcium
and phosphorus. If the addition of iodine
to a lick helps to correct these deficien-
cies, it justifies its cost. It is difficult for
individual stockowners to experiment. It
is to be hoped that the C.S.I.R. will not
leave matters as they are now. lodine
is expensive.
BLADE-SHEARING.
“Sheepo”: “Wayback” (B. 11/10/;33)
is right in his praise of blade-shearing.
A western Queensland owner recently
offered ss. a head to have a few hundred
rams shorn by hand. Only one old-timer
applied. Few are anxious to learn blade-
shearing, but there’s always a rush for a
learner’s pen in any machine shed. In
the blade days sheep were shorn just
as well as they are now, and the average
blade-shearer was little slower. With the
blades, sheep weire not “tomahawked” so
much and were less liable to fly at-
tacks. Instead of being “pinked,” there
was sufficient wool left on as weather
protection.
RABBITS IN SHEEP COUNTRY.
“Moree”: Rabbits and sheep cannot
long exist together. Rabbits prevent the
grass from seeding. Here are some points
worth remembering in order to remove
the pests:
(1) Be sure the fences are secure before
starting to exterminate them.
(2) Where possible, dig the burrows out to
the last shoot, leaving none.
(3) Fill in tight afterwards. This saves
trouble with cast sheep and damage to big
stock.
(4) Shoot the rabbits that are jumping the
fences or climbing them like cats. Watch the
fences closely for holes chewed in the netting.
(5) If possible, temporarily fence off the water.
This can only be done if you can keep the
paddock unstocked.
(6 Pay attention to strainer-post supports.
(7) Dig them each day, and cover continually
the ground already dug.
(8) Ferret out impossible burrows, and then
block them with a cone of netting, or net right
round them.
(9) Scout well and unceasingly after digging
out with a large pack of dogs. It is wonder-
ful how quickly a few strays breed up again.
(10) Get them out at all costs, or they will
get you out if you leave them.
STOCK IMPROVEMENT.
“El V.”: The Yeerongpilly (Q.)
Animal Health station is entering on a
three-year experiment in feeding and
handling porkers for local trade and
export. The Agricultural Department
has woke up to the fact that there is a
£20,000,000-a-year trade in pork and
bacon waiting for us overseas if we can
get it.
The basis of the scheme to cater for
this market is, firstly, subsidies to farmer
purchasers of Large White and Middle
White boars —anybody who tries to get
into the overseas market with anything
but white-based pigs is an optimist. Then
standardised types for exhibition will be
tried by the department as object-lessons
to pig men. Experiments are to be made
with meatmeal feeding and with wheat
and maize and other grain rations, of
which there is usually a seasonal surplus.
Carcasses will be reported on at intervals
by the State Abattoirs, and experimental
shipments will be sent to London.
The aim will be to produce export
porkers at between 601 b. and 801 b.
dressed weight and baconers at about
1301 b. or a little more, which is above
the weight considered ideal in the local
market.
Other States might well follow Queens-
land’s example and at the same time
extend the plan to all meat-producing
animals. If a better-bulls scheme had
been put into operation a decade ago
there would be a different tale to tell
about the Australian beef trade. If,
moreover, the scheme applied to dairy
cattle, farm areas might reasonably be
cut down 15 per cent, all round, especi-
ally if cattle improvement were combined
with pasture fertilisation. Australian farm
areas are all too big, and most of them
are badly stocked with second- or third-
grade animals, which are wastefully fed.
Fertiliser is cheaper than land every time.
The more a farmer can make his capital
earn the less interest he pays and the
less taxation on land and depreciation.
Second-rate plant, pasture and stock pro-
duce second-rate incomes and first-rate
liabilities.
PRESERVING BEEF.
“Wrash”: If you kill beef infrequently
cut up the beast thoroughly, rub salt
into the pieces, stack them on a bench
to drain for 24 hours ; then pack them
in the cask. For every estimated 1001 b.
of meat boil a pickle of Bgals. water,
lqt. treacle, 71b. salt and loz. each of
saltpetre and cayenne pepper. Skim and,
when cold, pour over the meat. Three
weeks later wash the pieces clear of salt.
Hang them out to dry, but do not leave
them in the open air after sundown.
DRENCHING A COW.
“The Lad”: It is not always wise to
drench the cow, after calving, with
Epsom salts, ginger and treacle. Only
use this drench when the cow has calved
normally and “cleaned” properly. If
the cow has retained the placenta, use
the solution known as Lugols. Syringe
the cow with 1 part solution to 20 parts
water. The solution: 1 part iodine, 2
parts potassium iodide, 5 parts water.
This treatment soothes the reproduction
organs. The drench irritates them.
BEST MILKING METHOD.
“Lion”: An experiment was recently
conducted in Hampshire, England, to
find the best method of milking in order
to ensure the least bacterial contamina-
tion of the milk. The three methods tried
were:
(a) Dry-hand milking.
(b) Wet-hand milking. .
(c) Grease-lubricated-hand milking.
As all these are employed in Australia,
the results are interesting.
(«) This method proved its value. Out of
30 samples experimented with it scored 72j
points out of 100. ’ .
( b ) This proved the worst of all. It caused
great contamination of the milk, and was re-
sponsible for cracked and chapped teats, which
could otherwise have been avoided. Figures
as follows: 30 samples—similar conditions to
(n) —scored 31 4-5 points out of 100.
(c) The use of vaseline as an aid to milking
showed up as follows: 30 samples —similar con-
ditions to (a) and ( b ) —scored 54 3-5 points out
of 100.
'With method (a) no bacillus coli were
found in any of the 30 samples drawn.
With method ( b ) six bacillus coli were
found in each c.c. of milk in all samples.
With method (c) five were found as
in ( b ).
Thus dry-hand milking is the proved
method in every respect, even for cows
with sore teats, an application of suitable
ointment afterwards being better for the
teats than if used while milking.
SPOTTED WILT OF TOMATOES.
“Hatter”: Spotted wilt is infectious
and attacks both animals and plants. It
is a virus which will pass through a por-
celain filter, and so has not yet been
isolated and determined. Tomato,
tobacco and potato plants are very sus-
ceptible to virus attack.
Spotted wilt first appeared near Mel-
bourne in 1915. Since then it has caused
heavy losses. Yellowish rings on the
leaf tissue and a curling downwards are
danger signs. Then follow bronze mark-
ings on the leaves —a decisive feature of
the disease. Later the spots change to a
bold yellowish mottling, with wilting of
the leaves.
Virus diseases may be carried from
plant to plant by an infected hand or
knife used in “stopping.” In spotted wilt
the prime cause of infection is the thrip,
which must feed in its larval or wingless
stage on an infected plant. When adult,
it appears to be immune. Two or three
weeks after the feeding of an infected
insect the first symptoms appear on a
healthy plant. There is no cure for
affected plants. Pull them up and burn
them at once. Control the insects by
spraying with Black Leaf 40 or dusting
with nicotine dusts. Various other plants
besides the tomatoes, such as potatoes
and broad beans, catch spotted wilt. This
enables the disease to persist from season
to season.
BONES ON THE FARM.
“R. K. Deea” : To make bones useful
as a fertiliser, place them in closely
covered containers, such as oil-drums,
with about four times their weight of a
solution containing 1.5 p.c. of caustic
soda and 1 p.c. of common salt. Pour
off the liquid after two months, and use
it over again. Then wash the bones in
the container twice, air-dry and powder.
The resulting fertiliser is worth about
£6 per ton and is equal to superphos-
phate for most crops. A closely covered
400-gallon tank will hold about scwt. of
bones, which would require 220 gallons
of water containing B|lb. of caustic soda
and 5/rlb. of salt for their decomposition.
MANURING IN THE ORCHARD.
“N.P.K.”: Orchard trees —the result
of many years’ hard toil —must not be
neglected during a period of low prices.
Orcbardists who failed to purchase arti-
ficial fertiliser while the bounty operated
missed a great chance. Victorian orchard
soils are poor in content of essential
plant foods ; therefore it is important to
see that the soil is not subjected to ex-
haustion. This reacts on the tree, affect-
ing the yield and quality of the fruit.
Worse still, it undermines the tree’s
strength, reduces its powers of resistance
and makes it an easy prey to disease.
Organic fertilisers, such as horse, cow,
sheep and poultry manure, are most suit-
able if available at a reasonable figure.
Clean horse manure, mixed with a mini-
mum of straw, is worth £1 a ton on the
farm, cow manure about 255. and dry
sheep manure 30s. Poultry droppings,
dry and free from foreign matter, would
be cheap at 50s. per ton. In using natural
manures there is a danger of introducing
weed pests. Many orchardists buy arti-
ficial manures (bonedust, bone and blood
and animal fertilisers), applying 3cwt.
to 4cwt. per acre, broadcast in the
autumn or late winter. Neat super,
is held in disfavor, particularly by those
farming lighter soils. However, the fer-
tiliser does splendid work when a catch-
crop mixture is sown with super, be-
tween the rows of trees in autumn and
ploughed under in spring.
ERICA FOREST FIRES
“J.W.W.”: Gippsland forest fires are
caused by the accumulation of bush
litter. Vic.’s Forest Commission has done
good afforestation work, but it must be
made to realise that forest conservation
is impossible unless the forest floor is
kept clean. An isolated settler near Erica
was free of bushfires during some of the
driest years on record. His plan was to
slash down the undergrowth a chain wide
to give a fire a start in a circle right
around the holding. This he did early in
the season when no danger existed, and
late in the afternoon when the sun was
weakening. He first burnt a strip of 20
chains, which is the distance a fire could
reach by nightfall, as the green growth
underneath would put it out. Few seed-
lings were injured. When millions of
tons of bush litter are left on the forest
floor long enough a fire is certain.
GETTING RID OF WEEDS.
“Wandi”: Weed-growth usually fol-
lows maize harvesting. The seed spreads
to other crops where weeds are difficult
to handle. Some farmers wait till plough-
ing-time to run the knife-roller over and
chop the stuff into the soil. Others cut
down and burn the weeds and cornstalks.
The ash is good for the soil and destroys
pests. In any case, a prolific growth of
young weeds follows. Destroy this on
the burnt ground by ploughing and
harrowing. Later, when the litter is be-
ginning to rot and young plants show
up from stray seeds or roots, plough
the ground.
Worst weeds on river farms are stink-
ing roger, thistles, farmers’ friend,
cobblers’ pegs and inkweed. Inkweed is
hard to burn or eradicate if it gets a
hold. Birds can spread the seeds far
and wide. Thistles and cobblers’ pegs
are spread by the wind. The seeds of
the others cling by hooks to everything
that touches them. Incessant infestation
occurs on many farms from dirty mar-
gins and neglected banks of creeks and
gullies.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
In past seasons I have had my broad beans
destroyed by a scale or fungus disease. I have
tried liming the ground, spraying with Black
Leaf 40 and dusting with sulphur, all to no
avail. Do you know of a preventive or cure ?
—8775.
The disease referred to is bean rust
(Uromyces fabce). Treated by spraying with
Bordeaux mixture from the time the plants are
a few inches high, bean rust can be prevented;
it can’t be cured, once it appears.
“5.N.0.” (B. 20/9/ ’33) mentions the Solingen
system of salt-pickling lucerne hay. How much
salt should I use ? —8566.
“5.N.0.”: 21b. salt per 1001 b. of three-parts-
dry hay is used in England. For half-dry hay,
41b. coarse salt well spread over the layers. Skill
in gauging the proper degree of dryness will
come with experience; the rates quoted may
need slight adjustment according to climate. In
an experiment at Somerset House, Nemingha,
lucerne was cut early in March, and carted
to the shed next day. The cut was about
15 tons from 20 acres, and the amount of salt
used varied from 41b. to l|lb. per 1001 b. of
hay. The layers were nine inches deep and
about 20ft. by 18ft. For the top layer, which
was the most moist, 201 b. per layer was allowed,
other rates varying to 111 b., 61b. and 51b. When
the stack was opened for sampling in August
there was little sign of sweating of the interior.
All sides of the stack were firm and square.
In experimenting with a large stack use too
much salt rather than too little. You must have
enough to cure the hay.
“Wen”: “Valerin” (B. 25/10/’33) says
the P.P. Boards should enforce compul-
sory dipping to reduce lice infestation in
N. S. Wales sheep districts. Warialda
P.P. Board, for one, has already taken
steps in that direction. Stock Inspector
Phillips has advertised that stockowners
in his district will be prosecuted if dip-
ping is not carried out. Lice infestation
has been a serious problem in the
north-west of the State for a long time.
“Carben”: Stony land produces some
of the best fruits, particularly apples
and pears. Stones ensure drainage and
in dry weather conserve water, which is
gradually evaporated into the soil.
Working stony soil is difficult, even with
fork hoes, but the heavy four-pronged
variety is the most suitable. Apply
straw, rough grass, or any other sort of
mulch.
“Tena”: Prof. Massey gives the fol-
lowing percentages of water in common
vegetables: Potatoes, 79.75 p.c. ; turnips,
89.49 p.c.; carrots, 89.79 p.c.; cabbages,
90.52 p.c. This must impress on vege-
table-growers the importance of using
water.
“Cockyson”: Never plant sweet pota-
toes among pineapples, bananas or citrus
fruit trees. This potato makes strong
demand upon the humus and stored
moisture and imparts harmful property
to the ground, which often takes years
to remove. The productivity of orchards
has been seriously affected for many
years by sweet potatoes.
(Land Page continued on page 31.)


■
Strength that
saves money!
Its upper leather-lined, its sole
double thickness, this Cossack is
built to exacting standards of
Abbey workmanship! It is made
for extra wear... .for all work and
weather. It actually saves money
in the extra service it gives. You
will find it more comfortable, too
fitting without strain anywhere.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all styles,
but the higher-priced tan boot has
an upper of special calf. Order,
also, the correct Abbey Preserva-
tive Polish (6d. per tin), or one of
the handy cleaning outfits (2/6
complete).
Tan Willow Calf, 45/- & 407-
Black Box Calf . . . . 37/6
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 359
The
BEST
that
MONEY
CAN BUY.'
NVf*?
MADE IN
ENGLAND
SWAN
w PENS
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
•Swan* Pens Black or Coloured from 20/-.
' Swan ’ Minors from 15/-. • Blackbird ’ Pens
from 10/-. ‘Swan’ Ink from 6d. per bottle.
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE. TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, London, W.l.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot
PHIPSON & COMPANY LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Use-Swan Ink!
I? « I
v i
Dependable/
& Aitken
Sg&lM’Wholesale Disfribuforj
HBB Sydney N.S.W. '
Public Notices.
tvt No. D 279/33.
IN the supreme court of new
ZEALAND—NORTHERN DISTRICT.
In Divorce.
TO EMILY ECCLES formerly of Sydney New
South Wales but now of parts unknown
Married Woman.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New Zea-
land at Auckland citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of PHILIP BRAITHWAITE
tCCLES of Kawau Island near Auckland
Engineer wherein he prays for a divorce from
you on the ground of desertion and such Cita-
tion intimates that in default of your , so doing
the Court will proceed to hear the said Peti-
tion and to pronounce sentence therein notwith-
standing your absence.
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that
tor the purpose aforesaid you are within thirty
days after the' date of this publication to attend
in person or by your solicitor at the Supreme
Court Office at Auckland and there to enter an
appearance without which you will not be
allowed to address the Court at any stage of the
proceedings. A copy of the said Citation and
Petition will be supplied to you on your apply-
ing for the same at the Supreme Court Office
at Auckland.
DATED this Thirty-first day of October,
1933.
(1.5.) A. E. DOBBIE,
. Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to her the foregoing adver-
tisement.
HAROLD EDWARD BEECHE is the Solici-
tor for the Petitioner, whose address for service
is at the office of the said HAROLD EDWARD
BEECHE, Chancery Chambers, O’Connell
Street, Auckland, New Zealand.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1347 of 1931.
BETWEEN HILDA EDITH GERMAN Peti-
tioner and FREDERICK ARTHUR
GERMAN Respondent.
TO FREDERICK ARTHUR GERMAN late
of Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HILDA
EDITH GERMAN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the first day of February One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-four and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Second day of November One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-three.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ARTHUR H. GARRATT, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Colonial Mutual Life Building, 14
Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1582 of 1933.
BETWEEN RUBY MAY TUCKER Petitioner
and JOHN WILLIAM TUCKER Re-
spondent
TO JOHN WILLIAM TUCKER whose present
whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said RUBY MAY
TUCKER has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a Decree of Dissolution of Marriage on the
ground of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the First day of February One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-four and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
Petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned solicitor free of charge.
DATED this First day of November, 1933.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) R. S. JOHNSON,
Clerk in Divorce.
A. P. BERNE, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1587 of 1933 (f.s.).
BETWEEN LILY DAGLISH Petitioner and
WILLIAM ALFRED DAGLISH Respon-
dent
TO WILLIAM ALFRED DAGLISH lately of
No. 47 Lower Fort Street Dawes Point
in the City of Sydney and State of New
South Wales
TAKE NOTICE that the said LILY DAG-
LISH has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this Hon-
orable Court on or before the first day of
February One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-four and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed solicitor free of charge.
DATED this First day of November, a.d.
1933.
For the Registrar,
. (L.s.) E. L. DICKSON,
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
ROBERT ASHLEY GILFILLAN, Solicitor
for Petitioner, Watson House, 9-13 Bligh
Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
mu
111 m
ram rnui
L'iU
JJJlii
Pjl
PEACE, INDUSTRY, PROFIT
You can arrange your Buying Trip to Leipzig without
misgivings. PEACE REIGNS THROUGHOUT GERMANY.
More than GOOO exhibitors look forward to your visit,
and will combine to make your stay a happy and
profitable one.
SPRING FAIR commences 4th March, 1934
Comprising Samples Fair, Engineering, Building,
Textiles, Household and Industrial Equipment Fairs.
Join the 115,000 business men and women from all parts
of the world who visit the Fair regularly to buy for
profitable reselling. Practically everything novel and
modern first sees the light at the Leipzig Trade Fair.
Full information obtainable from Commissioner Lars G.
Brundahl, 121 Pitt Street, Sydney; C. N. Keppel, Box
ICSB, G.P.0., Melbourne; O. K. Ditter, Box 10, G.P.0.,
Adelaide; or H. C. Ittersliagen, West Subiaco, Perth.
Leipzig Trade Fair
<
*
IN THE HEART
'OF BEAUTIFUL
GERMANY
JENOLAN CAVES
FOR
A Delightful, Inexpensive Holiday
TWO-DAY TOURS LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY
Specially Reduced
Inclusive Rates at
Week-ends.
39/4
Covers Travel and
Hotel. Stay may
be extended.
ASK FOR JENOLAN PICTORIAL FOLDER.
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
Challts House, opposite G.P.O. : : ■ Sydney
VISIT THE
AUSTRALIAN ART EXHIBITION
THE MACLEOD GALLERY,
Bulletin Buildings,
252 George Street (near Bridge Street).
Recent additions include works by Maud Sher-
wood, the late Phillips Fox, Ethel Carrick Fox,
and other prominent Australian Artists.
ADMISSION FREE.
LISTEN IN TO 2SM
every Tuesday night between 8.45 and a
for a “Talk on Radio ” by the Technical
Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A “Bulletin” Publication—Every Friday
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Established 1872.
„ HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Esq. (Chairman) : W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan. Esq.;
1. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
_ Genera ij Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 93
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
+R a( <"n ® a r kl "?. lnstltution s covering Australasia and the World, this
J ank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business
m
60
11
80
M
m
worm a near
are handled by the Coastal Radio Service of Australia.
The service comprises a chain of nineteen coastal
stations around Australia, and sixteen stations in Fiji,
Papua and New Guinea. In addition to the establish-
ment of communication between passengers on ships
at sea and the general public ashore, the messages
constitute weather forecasts and conditions, and
warnings to navigation.
Radiograms are accepted at any A.W.A. receiving
office or at any Postal Telegraph Office, ox* may be
telephoned to the Telegraph Office, G.P.O. (’phone
No., Melbourne, J 075, Sydney 8075, and ask for
“Telegrams”).
This service enables the public to send messages to
ships anywhere and at any time.
For further information, ’phone Melbourne F 4161,
Sydney 8W2211.
THE COASTAL RADIO SERVICE
is one of the many services rendered Australia by
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA'S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION


it's a
Satisfui
Drink
i- : •
m
m
: ■ ■
■ \ '
h
1
mm
V i
m,:
SBS
... ..
V
. ■'
m
.
•••• •?:$:: S
...
m
mm
f.-
-1“
O 3
u<
imimnin
IN
BOTTLES
AND
HALF
BOTTLES
“Taste the
Malt
and
Hops r
■ OOK what’s in K.B. Lager—Pure
rich malt to give you strength
and stamina—to give energy—and
the finest hops as a stimulating
tonic for the nervous system—you
can taste the malt and hops in
every glass of K.B.
TOOTH'S
LAG E k
V 21 V


James Murphy Bursaries
for
Agricultural Students
tenable at either
(a) The University of Sydney,
Providing all tuition fees (if chargeable)
and £7O per annum towards the cost of
residence at St. John’s College, or
(b) Hawkesbury Agricultural College,
Providing £4O per annum towards, fees, residence, etc.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries made available under
the Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are
insufficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science, and must
satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the University of Sydney,
or of entrance to Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later
than sth January, 1934, in the case of Bursaries tenable at Hawkesbury
Agricultural College, and not later than 10th February, 1934, in the case
of those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further particulars may
be obtained from
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited),
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
HOTEL GRAND CENTRAL
Hotel Grand Central, Ltd.,
151 Clarence Street
(Looking down Barrack St. and Martin Place )
Just about one minute from the
G.P.O. and about the same distance
from the big underground Wynyard
Square Railway Station. The Hotel
will be found most comfortable in all
detail for tourists and their families
and friends to lunch and dine. Lux-
urious Lounges and Dining Room.
The management assures you of
every comfort and service. Where
you pay for your room only: Single
Rooms from 4/ 6; Double Rooms
from 9/- per night. All Meals a la
carte. Garage adjacent. Complete
Sample Rooms available.
Centrally Situated and
in the Heart of the
City.
.p.:
* B
hi
Flour Tax
It does not seem to worry the Canberra
authorities that, if they wrangle much
longer, business will be depressed
throughout Australia because of the un-
settlement of the wheat industry. The
Commonwealth Government has been
shivering round the situation for weeks,
its members occasionally saying, with an
air of originality, things which apparently
they read in The Bulletin a fortnight
before.
* * * *
They have virtually pledged themselves
to a flour tax, but they have no faith in
their own scheme and are wasting valu-
able time trying to compromise with
everybody. Their first idea seemed to be
a tax of £6 per ton on flour to subsidise
the industry, but this does not meet the
wishes of the master bakers, whose
opinions must be respected since they
make contact with every elector in the
Commonwealth.
* * * *
The idea of a loan to provide a wheat
bonus, as suggested by other students of
the situation, is regarded by Govern-
ment members with misgiving—it might
affect the result of the public works Joan
which is being raised for the States. Then
State authorities would campaign against (
Federal members and accuse them of re-'
tarding employment, and the Scullin
party, which believes in a compulsory
pool or control board, would join in the
hunt effectively. Mr. Scullin says that
“bread consumers should not bear the
whole burden while substantial reduc-
tions are being made in land tax, income
tax and taxes on spirits and other
luxuries.”
* * * *
As bread consumers will have to bear
the burden anyway, since it is a charge
on the whole nation, this doesn’t seem
to matter. The flour tax applies the load
most equitably and will give the most
effective immediate results. At the end
of the year, the country will have paid
its debt for the season and the scheme
will not bequeath any responsibilities to
posterity.
* * * *
The final result of weeks of log-rolling
seems to be that the Government now
proposes a compromise flour tax of be-
tween £3 and £5 per ton, but in South
Australia the opinion is being firmly ex-
pressed that nothing less than £5 10s.
will be any good. ,
* * * H=
The whole thing needs removing from
the realm of politics. If it were handed
over to a board consisting of, say, the
Commonwealth Statistician, the South
Australian Auditor-General, a leading
wheat expert from N. S. Wales, with W.
P. Payne, of the Queensland Land Board,
as chairman, and if Government were to
give the board power to fix a basis and
would abide by its decision, much
quicker and more effective action might
be obtained. But the board should be
asked, afterwards, to look ahead and try
to discover exactly what the generalised
factors are which make wheat-farming in
certain districts and on hundreds of par-
ticular farms unpayable and what
remedial measures are needed. Future
aid to individuals in the industry should
then be dependent upon their complying
with specified farm-improvement condi-
tions. It is unfair that the community
should have to subsidise inefficiency and
extravagance and bolster up the prices
of farmers who have been battening on
Government relief funds for years, or
who go in for tractor-farming on land
where only horse operation is payable.
Some of the banks already have estab-
lished a policy on these matters, but the
whole position requires detailed examina-
tion to put the industry on a regularly
payable basis.
Wheat prices are still stagnant, with a
slightly weakening tendency. U.S.A. cur-
rency adjustments remain the biggest
factor in the world market. South Aus-
tralian wheat is quoted for November
delivery in London at 2s. and
Westralian for December-January at 3s.
sterling.
* * * *
“The Chid”: Although the N.S.W.
harvest has commenced (the first truck of
new season’s wheat was sold at Alex-
andria two weeks ago), harvest estimates
are still vague. Apart from the flour tax,
a decision has yet to be made as to how
assistance will be distributed to wheat-
growers. The amount available will, of
course, depend on the amount fixed for
the flour tax, and the most equitable
method of distribution is certainly that
based on the area planted.
* * * *
Although the total crop will probably
return a fair average yield per acre, many
districts have been hard hit by the
vagaries of the season ; and many farmers,
notwithstanding good farming methods,
will find themselves with very low yields.
The distribution of relief on a produc-
tion basis would be obviously most un-
fair to such men.
* * # it:
It may be argued that the principle of
subsidising acreage rather than produc-
tion is bad. And so it is; but it must be
remembered that this is a measure for
temporary relief and is not a scheme for
placing the industry on a permanently
sound basis.
Our Trade with Japan
“R.M.A.”: Mr. ScUllin, commenting
on the Commonwealth Statistician’s re-
port on Japanese imports to Australia,
which increased by £1,167,819 in one
year (£2,396,734 at June 30, 1932;
£3,564,553 at June 30, 1933), said that at
Christmastime the shop windows would
display Japanese lines that in previous
years were manufactured in Australia.
This conflicts with the view of Customs
officials, who said that the imports from
Japan were mostly goods of classes not
made in Australia.
* * * *
Mr. Ide, a Japanese silk merchant,
who returned to Sydney last week, said
that there was bitterness in Japan, which
he regretted, concerning the high tariff
raised against Japanese goods entering
Australia. This, he thought, was one of
the reasons why Japan attempted to buy
wool from South Africa and the Argen-
tine. Mr. Ide and another Japanese
visitor, Mr. Furukawa, both reported the
growth of the woollen-manufacturing
industries in Japan and the constant need
for fine-quality Australian wools.
* * * *
The Statistician deals exclusively with
Japanese imports into Australia. Japan’s
imports from Australia jumped during
each of the depression years, and, from
a trade-balance point of view, she has
been Australia’s best customer in recent
years. In three years Japan was worth
roughly £23,500,000 on present exchange
to Australia, an average of nearly
£8,000,000 a year, or about £4,500,000
more than the value of her imports into
Australia for the year ending June 30
last.
Sydney Wool Sales
“Anthony”: Wool sales closed in Syd-
ney last week with 51,619 bales offered
at auction, and 55,498 sold at an average
price of 14.9 d. per pound and £l9 3s. lid.
per bale. The market closed well above
the rates current for the preceding week.
Some descriptions have advanced a good
10 p.c., while others have remained at
about par. Though there has been no
frenzied buying, demand has been ex-
cited from all sections of the trade and
for all classes of the staple.
Yorkshire is proving a better support
than for many years past, and- is taking
a much bigger proportion of the fine
free wools than is usual. Its demand
for the deeply-grown broader descrip-
tions is obvious and constant. Both
Spinners and top-makers are giving good
orders. This is largely accounted for by
the tariff protection recently given to the
British textile industry. British millmen
have to a great extent recaptured their
own lost home trade, particularly in
women’s dress materials and fine hosiery
goods.
Reserve Prices
“X”: When prices are so low that the
woolgrower takes little risk in actual
£ s. d. by not meeting the market, he is an
eager seller. When they rise to an attrac-
tive level, and there is a much bigger risk
of a real monetary loss through a setback
in the market, many graziers begin reserv-
ing their wool at prices at the very top or
beyond the limit of current rates. Still
more of them would do so if they were
not talked out of it by their brokers.
Most of the wool which is being passed
in now is on account of growers’ reserves,
and would be very much better sold. Full
clearances give all operators confidence.
It is when wool begins to be withdrawn
that the buyer or his principal gets sus-
picious and starts to ask why, and pos-
sibly to hold off till he finds out. The
pass-in policy makes for weakness in the
market.
“Sell and repent, but sell,” is a sound
maxim in a good market, while not so
sound in times of low prices.
Butter Position
“8.5.”: While London butter prices
stay about 85s. —86s. for best Australian —
the outlook is black. London buyers
have exhausted their protective stocks.
Last week they were buying again ; hence
the tone was steadier, but arrivals each
week will grow. Buyers fill only urgent
needs. Re-exports > still dwindle. The
Continental demand is slow. Surpluses
from most supplying sources grow. There
may be a small rise within a week or so ;
Christmas buying will account for that,
though last year it was pretty feeble.
January prices will show the weakness of
the market.
* * * #
Australian prices reflect the overseas
weakness ; in most States they continue
to tumble. Adelaide is the one excep-
tion. There the market rose a lb. for
some unknown-reason. Distributors con-
tinue to cut conventional rates. In Syd-
ney from |d. to fd. a lb. is the correct
thing. Grocers, too, are offered supplies
delivered free and less the box charge.
They are not grumbling—at any rate, not
more than usual.
* * * *
The A.D.P.E. Board held conclave last
week—a three days’ session, with the
usual Cup intermission —mainly to con-
sider forward prices. These it fixed at
78s. c.i.f. and e., or a reduction of 4s.
a cwt. Seeing that M.L. factories that
week were offering London at 755., with
nothing much doing, the board’s new
price was worse than useless. The futility
of fixing forward prices was stressed by
several members, but the number of
votes was insufficient to wean the board
from its present ideas. The main reason
given was that it would be improper to
alter a regulation already gazetted,
though no one could say why.
* * * *
Factories are getting restive. Their
directors object to the board telling them
how to market their export sales. N.S.W.
butter shippers are taking a vote of those
interested for requesting the board to
cease interfering with the normal chan-
nels of business. So far factories repre-
senting 60 p.c. of the butter produced in
N.S.W. are against the board. These
include the greaf Norco Co-op., Ltd.
Last week the chairman of an important
Queensland factory telegraphed direct to
Mr. Stewart protesting against the
board’s busybodiness.
* * * *
Queensland has established a record in
butter production. The total manufac-
ture last year, according to the Queens-
land Butter Board’s annual report, was
1,785,523 boxes—an increase of 88,078
boxes on the previous year. The report
again discusses the equalisation system
and refers to its possible application
throughout the Commonwealth. The
board considers that this presents no diffi-
culty and that Queensland experience has
demonstrated that the system is fair.
It goes on to say that Queensland
has been fortunate in being able to ex-
port most of her inferior-quality butter.
* * * *
“B.O.”: No wonder J. Bull’s agri-
culturists are urging Whitehall to check
the quantity of butter arriving there.
For the first six months of 1933 all im-
ports, at 4,585,683 cwt., showed a gain
of 414,829 cwt. —346,326 cwt. from Em-
pire countries. Except for Finland and
Esthonia, Baltic countries have switched
the main part of their surpluses to J.
Bull’s market. To clear arrivals Britain
must eat 8850 tons weekly. Her best
effort to date is 8300 tons.
England and Our Meat
“A.R.”: Britain is definitely eating
more Empire meat. During August im-
ports of frozen mutton and lamb from
the Argentine to U.K. were only 3200
tons, a drop of 5300 tons compared with
August, 1932. M.L. supplied 17,000 tons,
a drop of 4000 tons compared with the
corresponding 1932 period, but Australia,
which supplied 4000 tons, nearly doubled
her 1932 figures. Considering that the
total British imports of frozen mutton
and lamb were 9000 tons less than in
August, 1932 —a drop from 34,000 to
25,000 tons —Australia’s place in the list
is encouraging. Frozen-beef imports
jumped from 17,000 to 20,000 tons as
compared with the previous August, Aus-
tralia supplying all but 200 tons of the
increase.
Egg Exports Increase
“8.F.”: Exports of Australian eggs in
three years have more than trebled. For
the year ended June 30 last they totalled
nearly 16,711,000 dozen. The Aus-
tralian hen’s previous best effort, in 1931,
was just under 5,971,000 dozen. For
the first 17 weeks of the present season
output shows an increase of 2,157,360
dozen on last year. These will make up
J. Bull’s breakfast, while an extra
15,660 dozen were supplied to the gentle
foreigner.
* * * *
The trade in egg-pulp, which until re-
cently was held firmly by China, is being
captured by Australia, whose export last
year was valued at £60,000 as against
one-twelfth of that sum two years ago.
* * * *
N.S.W. Egg Board has again dropped
the price for hen eggs. While the agents
can sell all they can get hold of at Bd. a
dozen, the board’s best offer is a penny
less. Latest London cables quote 12s. 6d.
a long hundred. This gives to N.S.W.
feather-squatters a return of 1 a
dozen, or higher than they can get
from the board’s local sales. At that
figure, a handsome profit may be made
on export, but why slaughter the local
market to show a margin on overseas
shipments? To ask the Federal Govern-
ment for an export bounty in such a case
is to add insult to injury.
“A. 8.”: Queensland’s export of tinned
pineapples is suffering a slump. For the
first 16 weeks of the current season pine
exports at 60,717 dozen are down by
nearly half. Practically all the trade is
with Canada and London, the former
taking 37,715 and the latter 22,180 dozen
tins respectively.


GERMAN
OINTMENT
to the Rescue!
immm
" \V
Quicklu
Ueals
SOCLES.
BURNS
BOILS. U LCER.S .
WOUNDS. ECZEMA.,
CHRONIC SKIN DISEASES
Skin sufferers should know about
DESITIN —it's working wonders in
all kinds of skin troubles. This
famous German ointment—now
available to the public—is one of
the most effective healing agents
known to medical science. Desitin
gives speedy results in the most
difficult cases. Obstinate, chronic
skin affections, ulcers, open wounds,
boils, burns, piles, eczema, pimples,
etc., are quickly relieved and healed.
HOW TO PROVE IT!
Try a tube to-day—if unobtainable at
your chemists, write to H. HECHT &
CO. (Sole Agents), 450 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Cl. Enclose postal note
for 3/-. Cost Eree.
V
#\\\\\»
WWWWWW
The Perth
Returns to
Pre-war Price of
y
on NOVEMBER 19
The proprietors of the “Sunday Times
are now able to revert to pre-war prices,
because of the newsprint manufacturers
“war,” which has resulted in the cost ot
paper being even lower than pre-war
days. As the “Sunday Times” has con-
tracted for further supplies over a lengthy
period at the prevailing low price, the
benefit will be passed on to readers. It
is anticipated that extra circulation will
compensate for loss of revenue occa-
sioned by the desire to give readers the
weekly edition at pre-war cost.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Saturday
is the most popular 64-page woman's
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
It’s up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
m
wm
m
m
, S' 'M*
vmwf ■ w
■. *■
Wr
MW
r *
5«? 2
V J
jgfe
,'»,r
!i
fife. ¥
iniiiii
®P|
&£
PS
<* .•
ss•??*
W'»
Z:*t
mWm
mm
*&• i
tm
m
mmm
mm.
mm
immm
wm
m
§ > |
ssss
' ?*¥ swv*
,/ ' ' V '
irK
fwmßF.
mi
MJ.
■»r i
onuac
8
STRA I G H T
An owner of a light six tried a
Pontiac. He put it to every test he
knew—tests that proved Pontiac’s
speed, smoothness, silence, luxury,
and economy. He was not so much
amazed as satisfied at the perfor-
mance; for Pontiac does not win
favour by extraordinary exploits—
its real accomplishment is in doing
ordinary exploits extraordinarily
well:
Another Pontiac Took
the Road!
Equipment includessixwirewheels,
genuine leather upholstery, and
bumper bars front and rear. See
the Pontiac Straight 8 at the show-
rooms of your nearest dealer.
Real Estate Auction Sale.
BLACKTOWN SHIRE
Between Rooty Hill and Riverstone
1440 ACRES—RICHMOND RD.
Portions 119 (ph), 121 (ph) and 122 (ph),
Parish of Rooty Hill. Torrens Title.
Unimproved Shire Value,
£5600.
UPSET PRICE, £5OOO
Vendors reserve right to withdraw pro-
perty after Auction if not sold thereat.
Sketch plans obtainable from the Auc-
tioneers.
Vendors’ Solicitor: G. A. HART, Esq.,
92b Pitt Street, Sydney.
O’BRIEN BROS., AUCTIONEERS, 28 Martin
Place, Sydney, and Bondi, will submit the
above by PUBLIC AUCTION in the REAL
ESTATE ROOMS, 30a MARTIN PLACE,
SYDNEY, WEDNESDAY, 29th NOVEMBER,
1933, at 11 o’clock.
What Does the Future Hold for
Investors?
Stocks Worth Consideration.
Outlook for Tin.
America Is Bidding Up for
Gold. What Does This
Mean?
If you are interested in these and other
things vital to investors, you can’t afford
to miss the
‘“WILD CAT’ MONTHLY ’
NOVEMBER ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PEK ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
Personal and Missing Friends.
Notice,
ALL persons claiming to be First Cousins of
SAMUEL BOUNDY, late of Ashreigney, in the
County of Devon, England, Retired Draper
and Grocer, who died on the 28th day of July,
1933, are requested to send full particulars of
their relationship to the undersigned by the
24th day of March, 1934. Persons who are re-
lated to the said Samuel Boundy as FIRST
COUSINS are entitled to share in the estate of
the said Samuel Boundy under his Will bearing
date the 17th day of July, 1933, and should
send particulars of their relationship.
J. FURSE SANDERS,
Solicitor, South Molton,
Devonshire, England.
Notice to Next-of-kin.
RE JOSEPH FRAMPTON, late of Toowoomba,
in the State of Queensland, Retired Station
Worker, Deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons claim-
ing to be entitled to the estate of the above-
named JOSEPH FRAMPTON, or any part
thereof, and particularly George Frampton,
a lawful brother of the said deceased, are
hereby required to forward proof of their
claims to The Public Curator of Queensland,
Brisbane, Queensland, on or before the Twelfth
day of May, One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-four, and that after the expiration of the
aforesaid date the said The Public Curator of
Queensland will proceed to distribute the assets
of the said deceased, disregarding the Claims
of which lie shall not have received notice and
all persons claiming by, through or under them
or any of them by derivative title or other-
wise howsoever. .
DATED at BRISBANE this Twelfth day
of November, One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-three.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator of Queensland, Brisbane.
sdf
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Union.
sdf
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations, Speak
Without Notes, Grip Facts,
Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free. Write
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
Younger Crescent, Caulfield,
S.E.B. Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price tor the original.
In the
“BULLETIN”
of 8/11/’33
Due to a typographical error the price of
l^ucione
High Tensile
RING LOCK FENCING
was quoted at
£7/15|-
PER MILE.
This Should have read
£l7/15/-
PER MILE,
Any inconvenience caused by this error is
regretted.
The CYCLONE FENCE & GATE Co. Pty., Ltd.,
The Grace Buildings,
77 YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
And at MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.


und ‘tJri
mon
Delightful invigorating ocean voyages
to the lovely Pacific Islands for no
more than the cost of a city holiday!
D . SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days, Ist Class Return, £35
... . ~ HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class Return £75
Seven-weeks Tour Cabin „ , £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Via Wellington, N.Z., Ist Class Return, £4O
23 Days' Tour. Cohin Class Return, £32/10/-
PAPEETE, TAHITI,
via Wellington and
Rarotonga Ist Class Return, £55
Seven-weeks Tour Cabin M t £4Q
Return
Tickets
Available
for Three
Months if
desired.
No exchange
charges.
Excellent cuisine . . comfortable accommodation . . per-
* e< ;t , s ® r 'f ice • • Ever V assistance given to ensure a
delightful holiday.
Full details and illustrated literature from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
mm.
%
%
list?
1
f •.
~sSSs«
vM
rftUi
l»l
v.tvx 11
M
mia 11
A
Sf *t
A
mJUk
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£1,000,000
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Monev. etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
|Wa£mfi<
icent
7 et i
invitingly
feemfiv
,- ;>i||
«TS
15
-Pi
GREAT CANADIAN
PACIFIC HOTELS
\\/elcome and hospitality await
v T you in any of the fifteen
Canadian Pacific hotels, located in
Canada’s most important cities
and pleasure resorts.
Here is the same kind of service
that you expect on Canadian
Pacific trains and steamers —
efficient, unobstrusive service that
anticipates your every need.
Here you may enjoy the comfort,
the cuisine, the social life that will
leave you ever-pleasant memories
of your stay in Canada.
TRAVEL CANADIAN PACIFIC
ALL THE WAY TO EUROPE.
Write or call for illustrated literature.
Lake Louise
CANADIAN
PACIFIC
247 George St.,
Sydney.
Canadian
. Pacific
WoHds Greatest Travel System
Trams,Steamers, Hotels
NOMINAL PRICE
cunoC
PHE NOMINAL WEAR
m
B. V. D. STANDS UP UNDER
THE TOUGHEST
PUNISHMENT
Unknown underwear—looks
like a bargain on Hie counter
but it just won’t wear.
The initial cost is low—but
the upkeep is terrific.
The real bargains are not
hiding behind “bargain” price
tags—they’re found in under-
wear labelled B. V. D.—under-
wear built to stand up and
“take it.”
When you buy underwear
insist on the famous red
B. V. D. label. It cuts a whale
of a lot off your budget.
Now made in Australia for
THE B. V. D. CO. INC., NEW
YORK
J
--
TRADE-
If any illustration in The Bulletin
takes your fancy, write to the manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
“F.S.”: The way of the Australian
composer is strewn with more thorns
probably than that of the painter, the
writer or any other kind of artist. The
special difficulty of the composer lies in
the fact that public performances are
expensive luxuries. Vic. Postal Insti-
tute performed an original symphony
by George English at the Town Hall,
Melbourne, a few months ago and landed
itself with a loss of £l7O, most of the
regular music-lovers being absent at a
concert of old masters by a pianist. Eng-
lish has just completed a second sym-
phony, but the wages of the orchestrions
alone would run away with £250 and
Melbourne’s plutocrats prefer to bestow
their benefactions on more popular
causes. This is where the Broadcasting
Commission could do good service by
having works of merit performed. It
is true that the A.B.C. has lately awarded
prizes for musical compositions, but pub-
lic competitions don’t usually result in
the discovery of exceptional talent.
Mozart entered for numerous competi-
tions and never won a prize.
Sonnets of a Shopgirl.
(No. 3.)
“This wrastling, now,” says Arcourt. “Ever
been?”
“The wrastling ? Me ? No thanks, me lord! ”
says I.
“I’ve got a bit of self-respeck. But why?”
“Aw, nothin’; but you’ll like it. What I mean,
I’ve booked two seats.” “Then keep ’em.
Won’t be seen
In either!” “Aw, you’ll be as right as pie.
Do come.” “Well, just because I’m game to
try
Anything once, don’t kid yourself I’m keen.”
I kidded him, of course —not being such
A silly as to let him see too much.
I mean to say, I never did believe
A girl should wear her heart upon her sleeve.
It’s best to keep your feelings under wraps
When dealing with them straying cattle, chaps.
“Some of the ’ighest ladies in the land
Come ’ere,” he brags. “Where do you hide
’em, then?”
I snarls. There seemed as many girls as men;
But not the kind that kiss the Royal hand
And duck out backwards. Quite a few were
canned
(Men, too); and nearly all kept munching—
some
Were chewing peanuts, and the others gum;
And noisy- —you could hardly hear the band.
The “ring” (a square) was covered with a pall
Of smoke (that’s poitry!), and the building
smelt
Of disinfectant—just as well, I felt,
With such a lot of roughies in the hall.
“Aw, this is great,” says Arc.; “a bonzer
sight! ”
He’d dropped his English accent for the night.
“Here comes the announcer,” Arcourt veils —
“the toff
J® Jhc soup and fish; an’ thdt’s the referee.
Ell lose is shirt w’en they get wild, you
see I”
“He won’t lose much, whoever tears it off:
They’re thirty-bob-a-dozen shirts,” I scoff.
The crowd don’t like the ref. Fierce hoots
and jeers
Are fired at him as soon as he appears.
He only sniggers and pretends to cough.
Sti l]> he got nothing to the row they made
When Bludsky come along, the Cossack Bear.
Says Arcourt, “Gee, we razz ’im every
week.
Wot, rude ? We on’y call a spade a spade.”
Then thunderbolts of cheering splits the air:
It’s Plato Physhandchyps, the Grisly Greek.
“Ten-minute rounds,” the boy-friend bellows—
“ten.”
The ref. gives orders; lights and smokes go
out;
A buzzer sounds; a bell is heard; the bout
Begins. They paw, they snort, they stamp;
and then
The* rush in headlong, more like bulls than
men.
The people egg ’em on, and give a roar
When, like two lengths of chain, they hit the
floor.
They scramble up, but down they go again.
Most of the round they wrastled on their backs.
Once Physhandchyps was walloped from the
rear.
He got it where the turkey got the axe;
And sank his grinders in a Cossack ear.
The bell again; each Sweating mass of meat
Released his holt and staggered to a seat.
The second round was very like the first,
Except that someone’s dignity was hurt;
The ref.’s, I mean. The Cossack grabbed
his shirt
And gave a tug, and straightaway it burst.
A monkey trick, I reckoned, and rehearsed;
But Arcourt busts out laughing; calls it
great:
“Wot did I tell yer! Didn’ I tip it, Kate?”
Of all the mugs I’ve tracked with, he’s the
worst.
Next, Bludsky, who’s been squirming on the
floor,
Rolls underneath the ropes. The crowd go
sour:
“Big loafer! Make him wrastle!” many
shout.
Others pernounce him yellow to the core.
A lady, to improve the shining hour,
Requests the Greek to pluck his liver out.
And so the thing went on. The Cossack done
His block again—slapped Plato on the cheek,
Then pulled his greasy hair, his ears, his beak.
All readied up, I thought, though not bad fun.
But, wait! That dirty Dago took a run
At Bludsky, missed, fell out, and, crawling by
Us ringside-seaters, pinched me on the thigh.
Well, after that I didn’t care who won.
I felt so savage that I didn’t mag
At all till we got home —just chewed the rag.
But Arc was thrilled, and talked a lot of rot.
Grew skittish, too. He clinched and says
“I’ll show
You what full nelsons is.” I answer “No.
You’ll get right home this minute”; and he
got.
N.s.w.
AMY EMPSON.
{To be continued.)
Answers to Correspondents
No notice {except of a hostile character ) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
H.D.: Spelling, punctuation and story all of
a piece K. 8.: Worth working at again
L.L.M: Milk-and-water... .F. 8.: No use sub-
mitting stories that have appeared elsewhere.
B.W.: The office Pied Piper took the rats
in hand... .C.M.L.: That white-man-black-girl
plot has been overworked... .J.J.: Your
pair of super-sleuths don’t lit into an Australian
setting... .E.F.: We don’t object to slangy
dialogue when the slang is native and under-
standable... .R.G.: No use taking a hero and
heroine to the Blue Mountains merely to
describe the scenery... .H.A.: The jewel-rob-
bery yarn might pass if condensed M.K.:
True, perhaps, but dull L.S.W.: That type
of brigand belongs to Italian opera P.M.C.:
Neither gladdened our hearts D.F.: We are
still in the dark as to who butchered the
boarding-house cat... .S.M.S.: An English writer
named John Metcalfe, in a story called “The
Picnic,” tells much the same story ten times
better... .5.8.: Tale of back-lane beer party
hopelessly crude... .W.P.: Inject more life into
them... .T.C.: Use shorter sentences....
R.8.W.: You’re poorly equipped for the trade
of short-story writer J.N.: It might appeal
to Mares... .H. 0.8.: Limps and stumbles
grievously... .D.H.W.: Ballade with “dawn-
morn” rhymes in every verse makes us feel ill.
....R.H.: Lines detailing the beauties of
A sylvan glade whose seclusivenesa dispels
All thoughts of modernistic hells
firmly rejected Zed: Neither is in our style
... .Jonnai: Too much explanatory preface and
too many technicalities H.G.: It’s just Law-
son and water—a lot too much water....
H.C.: There’s some good straight-flung stuff in
it. But this so-called free verse is too heavy a
handicap; if you despise all the canons of
metre and rhyme why not write in prose?
Mrs. C.: The only place for it would be a
church magazine.... D.K.R.: Fit for only
juvenile consumption, if that Skeeta G.:
There’s an idea in it, but you echo “The Lost
Chord” a trifle too closely G. 8.: We are
doubtful about what is “a white Hell-wound,”
and entirely unable to translate “the thunder’s
shard”....E.A.: N0....R,W. (Manitoba): Too
sloppy for our liking... .R.O’M.: It makes very
hard reading... .M.L.L.: Can’t find any trace
of it. Nothing to prevent you offering it else-
where... .A.M.D.: The first is unbelievable;
the other is a long-drawn-out variation of an
Abo. par J. 8.: Don’t think answer was in-
tended for you ; anyhow, second submission falls
short... .E.G.G.: No room for guide-book
prose... . R.C.: Undiluted melodrama....
J.T.R.: Climax is weak... .E.D.: The young
married couple’s tiff ended as anticipated, with-
out telling much J.C.: Same thing has hap-
pened too often in fiction F.W.J.: We, too,
repeated the last line, but we did not mutter
it softly S.M.K.: The gods at 252 George-
street were not angered—only bored C.J.S.:
Bald and amateurish A.J.C.: Slight interest
only H.F.: Forced humor... .S.W.: It
reached the door, but hadn’t strength enough to
raise the knocker Z.V.W.: Neither the roast
chicken nor the deal in cattle impressed u 5....
J.S.W.: Not a bad beginning R.S.C.:
Found the night-watchman a bore....
C.H.V.: A London counterjumper might read
it with zest, but it wouldn’t go down here.
....H.E.8.: P00r.... J.8.A.: Stilted dialogue.
.... H.V.D.: The boy has a sense of humor,
and that’s something. Study’s the word.
. ...J.T.S.: The modern copper is not such
an ass C.W.J.: Plot a little too frail for
the purpose J.C.: (Remuera): Not this time.
. ...R.P.: Needs more humorous treatment.
J.S.C.: Well, at least you got it off your
chest... .R.F.: Chase has no suspense....
N.M.F.: Writing will have to improve consider-
ably... .N.S.: No feed for “Phine Phella
Binghi”... .P.R.M.: Wordy, melodramatic and
no Australian interest R.8.H.: Laborious
opening and slipshod finish A.W.W.: That
particular piece of ground has been scratched
over often 0.F.: Off the mark R.P. :
Could see the end a mile off.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.M.C.: “Caution” has merit —if it’s original
.... R.F.S.: Harsh and lifeless... .N.H.P.:
Lines look as if they got on the paper by
accident... .G.D.: Use Indian, not violet, writ-
ing ink W.R.: “No shave-no-razor” jest has
been in circulation for generations S.K.:
Half-tone sketch resembles something washed
up in the last flood M.F.W.: More like a
Zulu than an abo G.H.: Too ambitious
M.K.M.: Wooden figures and a tame wheeze.
C.S.: Where is Dave’s right arm, and why
aren’t his legs of equal length? K.M.: None
of them will earn you bread and butter
A.0.M.: Well, it’s good to know someone
has that amount of energy... .F.J.: Should!
we like to have a look at some more?
Not unless you improve a 10t... .W.G.: Idea
fair; treatment is atrocious... .T.S.: Not an
atom of good work amidst all that whirl of
lines L.G.: The girl is pretty and shapely-
enough, and her young man looks a decent
fellow, but their conversation is witless
S. : Torn and crumpled object received....
L. : Faulty penmanship was its downfall.
E.T.: Sketch depicts nothing remotely re-
sembling human beings W.1.R.: No hitch-
ing-post here for three-legged horse CB A •
Don’t draw on both sides of the paper
R.T.: A pair of dead gum-trees cracking a
joke about a defunct dog refused J.W •
They made us so dejected “that we hadn’t atiy
spirit left to curse them D.S.: Lady might
have stepped out of a draper’s catalogue.
G.S.N.: Weird drawing of a Chinese, a frying-
pan and a cask of beer floating in space was
basketed.... OJ.: A very feeble imitation of
Softer ' ‘ P - : Decent first attempt....
M. Melbourne Cup drawing arrived too
late C.J.H.: An excellent example of what is
not wanted... .G.J.A.: Whether the gag or the
drawing is worse has us genuinely puzzled....
T. : Send them along during our self-
denial week... W.T.D.: Misses by the width
of the Great Australian Bight H. 8.: Re-
i? C A ed ’ uml Phased to see further efforts
t.A.: well, you derived some amusement from
it if nobody else did.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart lor tiie service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Pruner and packer wants work on citrus
orchard in Gosford (N.S.W.) district. —8797.
Man with team of horses wanted as share
farmer, wheat and oats, Vic., no money needed,
plant, seed, super., horse-feed and board sup-
plied.—BBol.
Queensland ex-Digger requires accommo-
dation with pleasant, homely family, Sydney
suburbs, from Dec. 20 to Jan 2.—8831.
Hon. sec. of School of Arts invites sugges-
tions for making the institution attractive and
helpful to women.—B7sB.
Names and addresses of secretaries of ama-
teur dramatic societies in country towns —all
States.—BBoo.
Book-keeper, N.S.W. (M.M.), with general
storekeeping exp., wants employment, any
capacity. Refs. —8767.
Whereabouts of Martin William James Lee,
born at Bathurst (N.S.W.), last heard of at
Forbes (N.S.W.) about 30 years ag0. —8720.
To buy second-hand biographies of Chester-
ton, Yeats, Francis Thompson, Dowson and
Belloc, and other books dealing with Roman
Catholic poets and poetry.—B7s6.
To hear from persons with experience of
building houses with coral. —8737.
To buy second-hand modern novels. —8681.
To buy Quick and Garran’s “Constitution of
the Commonwealth” (annotated). —8777.
To buy “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly,” July, 1927;
will pay 5s. —8790.
To buy Clark’s “Southern Goldfields.” —
8788.
To buy copy of “The Genealogists’ Monthly
Magazine,” also “The Hope of the Hermit”
and “The Romance of Borrowdale,” by Edna
Lyall.—B7B6.
To buy organ score, with words, of Elgar’s
“Dream of Gerontius.” —8809.
To buv books published in Australia before
1870.—8805.
Words of poem “The Stockman’s Pledge.”—
8827.
Information Sought.
(1) Was the Burns-Johnson fight in Sydney
stopped by the police ? (2) Who has the greatest
power, the police, the referee or a second, to
stop a boxing contest, also to declare one “no
fight” ?— 8834.
(1) Johnson had Burns so badly beaten in the
14th round that the police-inspector called a
halt, and referee Hugh D. Mclntosh declared
Johnson winner on a technical knock-out. (2)
A policeman controls every boxing contest in
Australia, and his word is paramount. Should
a second throw in a boxer’s towel, the referee
has discretion to kick it out of the ring and
order the contest to continue. When the
police demand that a contest be stopped the
referee must enforce the demand. The police
representative also has final say about declaring
a contest “no fight,” although none but the
referee has so far made such a decision in
Australia.
What are the lines in which Adam Lindsay
Gordon declared that no game was worth while
in which the element of danger did not exist ?
What poem contains the lines ? —8794.
The stanza is from “Finis Exoptatus,” in “Ye
Weary Wayfarer,” and reads: —
No game was ever yet worth a rap
For an Englishman to play,
Into which no danger, no mishap,
Could possibly find a way.
Other versions give “a rational man” instead of
“an Englishman,” and “accident” instead of
“danger.”
(1) Weight of the Cullinan diamond when
found, number of faces and shape ? Had it
any flaws? (2) General appearance of a
diamond in the rough ? (3) Shape of a
diamond in the rough ? —8754.
(1) The rough stone weighed 621.2 grams or
3025| carats (about 1 l-31b.); it displayed three
natural faces and one large cleavage face, and
its shape suggested that it was a portion of a
stone more than double its size; it was trans-
parent, colorless and had only one small flaw,
near the surface. (2) A rough diamond, especi-
ally from river gravels, has often a peculiar
greasy appearance, and is no more attraetive
to the eye than a piece of washing-soda.
Usually, however, it is transparent or translu-
cent. (3) Diamond crystallises in octahedra
with brilliant, smooth faces, and occasionally
in cubes with rough-pitted faces; sometimes
three or six faces take the place of each
octahedron face, and the stone is almost spheri-
cal in shape.
(1) How many Egyptian pyramids are there ?
(2) What are they composed of ? (3) Can one
go inside ? (4) Height of roof inside ? (5)
(а) Height of pyramids, and (b) estimated weight
of stone blocks ? (6) How are they reached
from Cairo ? (7) Any other information and
a theory as to how they were built ? —8682.
(1) In common parlance “the Pyramids” are
the three at Gizeh, but there are others—
the “Encyclopaedia Britannica” enumerates a
dozen. (2) They consist of horizontal layers of
rough-hewn blocks laid with mortar and faced
with smooth stone slabs. (3) There is a small
chamber in the interior of each. (4) Varies.
That of the smallest of the three pyramids at
Gizeh is 12ft. in its highest part. (5) (a) The
Gizeh pyramids are respectively 481 ft. 4in.,
472 ft. and 215 ft. lin. in height. ( b ) Varies.
In most cases each block weighs several tons.
(б) By tram. (7) The pyramids were the tombs
of the kings of Egypt, and the three at Gizeh
were built probably between 4700 and 4550 b.c.
Inside each pyramid and below the ground level
is a sepulchral chamber, reached by a sub-
terranean passage, coming always from the
north The stones used for facing were cut by
bronze saws set with jewels. Hollows were made
with tubular drills. It is believed that the
great blocks of stone were hauled up earth-
work ramps which were removed when the
pyramid was completed.
Who was Cornelius Van Drebbel ? —8795.
He was bom 1572; died 1634. A pensioner
of Emperor Rudolph 11., and tutor to Fer-
dinand ll. ’s son, he owed his release from im-
prisonment in Austria (in consequence ot a
revolution) to James I. of England. In Eng-
land he passed the rest of his life. He invented
a water-thermometer, discovered a bright scarlet
dye and devised improvements in the microscope
and telescope. He was credited by his contem-
poraries with having devised a submarine cralt,
but evidence on this point is unsatisfactory.
How is the Pope appointed? —8701.
By election. Each cardinal in conclave
writes on a ticket his own name with that ol
the cardinal whom he chooses. These tickets,
folded and sealed, are laid in a chalice which
stands on the conclave altar, and each elector
approaching the altar repeats a prescribed lorm
of oath. Thereupon the tickets are taken from
the chalice by scrutators appointed from the
electing body; the tickets are compared with
the number of cardinals present, and when it
is found that any cardinal has two-thirds ol
the votes in his favor he is declared elected.
The ballot papers are then burnt, and smoke
rising from a certain chimney of the Vatican
indicates to the watchers outside that a new
Pope has been elected.
(1) Did Romney paint a picture entitled
“Peace” ? (2) Was his seal the shape of a lion
half-lying down? (3) Was liis signature that of
a man in sitting position ? (4) Was Corregio
his teacher ? —8690.
(1) No. (2) No. (3) No. He is only known
to have signed one picture, and that in his
youth. It was signed George Rumney in
Roman letters. (4) Corregio lived two centuries
earlier.
What is eclecticism in philosophy and who
were its expounders ? —8717.
The principle of selecting and adopting views
from various systems of philosophy and unit-
ing them into one composite system of thought.
Among the earliest eclectics must be numbered
Cicero, the Peripatetics and the Neoplatonists.
Notable French exponents in later times were
Victor Cousin and Adolphe Garnia. Cousin
asserted that “Each system is not false, but
incomplete, and in reuniting all incomplete
systems we should have a complete philosophy,
adequate to the totality of consciousness.”
What salaries are received by members of
Parliament in European countries ?— 8789.
France: Senators and Deputies, 62,000
francs (£765) p.a. Italy: Members of the
Chamber of Deputies, 21,000 lire (£350) p.a.
Netherlands: Members of the First Chamber
residing in The Hague are unpaid; others re-
ceive 10 florins (£1 65.) a day during session.
Members of the Second Chamber, 5000 florins
(£640) p.a., plus travelling expenses. Spain:
Deputies, 1000 pesetas (£26 65.) per month,
plus travelling expenses. Switzerland: Mem-
bers of the Council of States are paid by their
States varying amounts, averaging 20 francs
(£1 4s. 6d.) for each day they attend; mem-
bers of the National Council are paid from
Federal funds 40 francs (£2 95.) per sitting day,
plus travelling expenses. Sweden: Members of
both Chambers residing in Stockholm receive
3000 kroner (£154 12s. 6d.), and others 4000
kroner (£206 3s. 4d.) per session, plus travel-
ling expenses. Norway: Members of the
Storthing, 6000 kroner (£300) p.a. Denmark:
Members of the Rigsdag resident in Copen-
hagen, 5600 kroner (£343 10s.); others, 7,200
kroner (£443) p.a. Belgium: Senators receive
28,000 francs (£247), and Deputies 42,000
francs (£370) p.a. and a free railway pass.
(English equivalent at current rates of
exchange.)
(1) Were the Westminster Dragoons, 1.Y.,
King’s Colonials and Metropolitan Mounted
Rifles among the mounted volunteer units raised
in England for service in South Africa, 1899-
1902 ? (2) Was the Queen’s Medal presented to
troops serving between January 22, 1901, and
May 31, 1902, or did they receive King Ed-
ward’s Medal ? (3) For what service was the
Queen’s Medal without bar granted ? —8607.
(1) No details available. Write to the War
Office, London. (2) The Queen’s South Africa
Medal, in silver, was awarded to all members of
the British, Indian and Colonial Forces and to
all nurses and nursing sisters who actually served
in South Africa between October 11, 1899, and
May 31, 1902. The King’s South Africa
Medal was granted to those persons mentioned
in the preceding paragraph who served in South
Africa on or after January 1, 1902, and who
had completed 18 months’ war service on that
date, or subsequently completed such service
prior to June 1, 1902. (3) The Queen’s South
Africa Medal in silver was not granted with-
out clasps. This medal in bronze, without
clasps, was granted to non-enlisted personnel
who drew military pay.
(1) What was the Canadian national debt just
prior to the war ? (2) For what purpose was
the debt incurred ? (3) Where was the bulk of
it repayable ? (4) National debt at any date
within the past three years ? (5) Where is it
mostly repayable ? —8744.
(1) The gross national debt of Canada on
Mar. 31, 1914, was 544,391,369 dollars, as
against assets of 208,394,519 dollars, leaving a
net debt of 335,996,850 dollars. (2) Broadly
speaking it was a debt incurred for productive
purposes. (3) It was held mainly outside the
country, the principal of the Dominion funded
debt payable in London being 302,842,485
dollars, as against only 717,453 dollars payable
in Canada. (4) The gross national debt of
Canada at Mar. 31, 1931, was 2,610,265,698
dollars, as against assets of 348.653,762 dollars,
leaving a net debt of 2,261,611,936 dollars. (5)
The debt is now mainly held in Canada,
1,800,264,602 dollars being repayable there.
Countries to which Australian pearlshell was
exported for 1929-30, 1930-31 and 1931-32, and
value of the commodity exported to each of the
countries in each of the three years ? —8709.
1929-30: United Kingdom, £80,257; other
British countries, £232 ; Germany, £6529; Japan,
£174; U.S.A., £361,666; other foreign coun-
tries, £1757. 1930-31: United Kingdom,
£72,145; other British countries, £353; Ger-
many, £2932; Japan, £473; U.S.A., £274,017;
other foreign countries, £5072. 1931-32: United
Kingdom, £31,978; other British countries, £7;
Germany, £759; Japan, £180; U.S.A., £161,397;
other foreign countries, £3O.
What part did the Artists’ Rifles Regiment
(28tli London) play in the Great War ? —8719.
The Ist Battalion arrived in France at the
end of October, 1914, and was sent to the
front, but was at once called upon to furnjsh
officers to fill the gaps in the original British
Expeditionary Force, to organise and staff the
first officers’ school in France and to provide
instructors for the machine-gun school. The
battalions at home were employed as officers’
training corps, and the three battalions during
the war provided over 10,000 officers to various
arms of the service. In July, 1917, the Ist
Battalion ceased to be an officers’ training corps
and joined the 190th Brigade in the Royal Naval
(63rd) Division, with which it fought until the
end of the war in France.
(1) Date of birth of first white child born in
Australia ? (2) Place of birth ? (3) Names of
parents and child and condition of parents, i.e.,
whether free citizens or convicts ? (4) Is there a
record of the names of all free settlers arriving
in Port Jackson up to 1810?—8653.
(1), (2) and (3) This first-white-child question
cannot possibly be settled. Even if it were limited
to children of free parents, it might still be im-
possible to settle it. Obviously some children
must have been born in the earliest months, if
not weeks, of the settlement, and unless these
children were baptised by the official chaplain
their births would not be recorded. In the
case of Roman Catholics, at least, they would
not have been so baptised. (4) The Mitchell
Library records include the names of many
free settlers, but there are no lists of all free
settlers arriving during the given period.
What was the food and water ration of the
convicts in the First Fleet ? How did their
ration compare with that of seamen in the naval
and merchant service of the time ? —8760.
The official ration of water was three quarts
per day per man; the food scale, two-thirds of
that fixed for the naval service—which was,
per week per .man, bread (i.e., biscuit), 71b.;
salt pork, 21b.; salt beef, 41b.; peas, 21b.;
oatmeal, 31b.; butter, 60z.; cheese, Jib.; vine-
gar, half-pint. The scale was not adhered to,
the ration being varied by rice, soup and dried
fish. When in port, and as long after as
stocks of fresh provisions lasted, it was under-
stood that fresh meat and vegetables must be
supplied to the convicts. The ration was in-
creased up to 20oz. of meat and lib. of rice
per day in ports where these foods were cheap.
Women and children were put on special diet,
and the sick were entitled to wine and spirits.
In what circumstances did a military officer
named Bellasis come to Australia during Gov-
ernor King’s command ? How long did he
stay here ? —8757.
George Bridges Bellasis, while stationed in
India, in May, 1801, killed a man in a duel.
On July 18 he was sentenced at Bombay to
14 years’ transportation; on January 2, 1802,
he reached Sydney in the cruiser Fly, was con-
ditionally pardoned by Governor King and
appointed on October 14 lieutenant of artillery,
with charge of the fixed defences of the colony,
succeeding Francis Barrallier. In November,
1803, he received a full pardon and returned to
India.
(1) What was the appearance of the gold
pieces struck in Victoria in 1853 ? What were
their respective weights and values? (3) How
many were issued ? —8784.
(1) and (2) On the obverse are the words
“Port-Phillip, Australia” incised upon a broad
rim, which is in relief. The date —1853—is
placed under a kangaroo. On the reverse are
the words “Pure Australian Gold,” with the
weights in words and numerals of the various
pieces struck—J, J, lor 2 oz. It was intended
that these pieces should pass current locally at
£l, £2, £4 and £8; but by the time the
machinery was in working order gold was
fetching £4 4s. an ounce and English sovereigns
were plentiful. The enterprise was therefore
abandoned. (3) Not known. In addition to
the original set replicas have been made from
the dies for museum purposes.
(1) What openings are there in wool-buying
for a young man with practical experience of
sheep-breeding ? (2) To whom in Australia
should one apply ? (3) Would it be better to
make a start in Bradford ? —8743.
(1) Hardest trade in the world to break into.
Buyers import their assistants from their own
particular centres. (2) and (3) To get a footing
either in Australia or in Bradford it is essential
to have influential friends in the trade.
I have had new pistons fitted to my model
A Ford. The old ones were level with the top
of the cylinder block; the. new ones project
1-16 in. above. What will be the effect on the
running of engine, and the difference in com-
pression ratio ?—8535.
There will be a slight increase in power, but
the operation of the motor will be a little
harsh. The compression ratio will now be
4.36 to 1, instead of 4.22 to 1 as formerly.
(1) Are there restrictions in Singapore on the
entry of natural-born British subjects ? (2) Is
the climate unhealthy ? (3) What are the pros-
pects of employment for a well-educated Aus-
tralian ? —B7lO.
(1) Not aware of any, apart from those that
may be connected with the granting of passports
in Australia. (2) It is not unlike Townsville —
monotonously hot and moist, but comparatively
cool at night. Some people don’t like it;
others thrive in it. Singapore is a modern city
with a high reputation for health. (3) Very
slight. The place is full of unemployed whites,
though many have been repatriated.
What are the specific provisions in States
other than N.S.W. covering divorce on the
grounds of insanity, and what domicile is neces-
sary in each case ? —8692.
Insanity is a ground for divorce in Queens-
land, Westralia, South Australia, Victoria and
Tasmania. In each case it is based on the con-
tinuance of the insanity for periods up to seven
years. Domicile, or permanent residence, is
required in each State, varying from two years
(Victoria) upwards, but persons seeking divorce
must not resort to a State to qualify in that
respect.
What does the phrase “devil’s advocate”
imply ? —8739.
In Roman Catholic ecclesiastical law the
devil’s advocate appears in a court when the
claim of a deceased person to canonisation is
under consideration. His duty is to present
evidence regarding all the sins the candidate
for saintship has committed or has been charged
with having committed.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of abo. word “Tarwine”?—B722.
Brief Answers.
S.W.M.: The exhibition of an article with
price attached in a shop window is an offer by
the shopkeeper to sell at the price named. A
tender of the price is an acceptance of that
offer, constituting a contract on which the cus-
tomer may 5ue....H.W.: “Georgia Rivers is
the pen-name of Marjorie Clark. She was
born in Melbourne J.D.G.R.: Copyright in
a play means the sole or exclusive right to per-
form or produce it in public. Ihe right is in
the author and is recognised in Common Law,
but statutory provision is made in every State
for registration which supplies complete protec-
tion. The copyright is yours, but you would
protect yourself more elfectually by registration.
W.M.: Without being punishable as an
offence it is a description calculated to mislead,
as you are not professionally qualified and it
might involve you in trouble... .E.W.M.:
Theophilus Roberts’s address is 276 Collins-
street, Melbourne... .A.J.P.: Not in order as
it stands E.R.M.: Your copy has no special
value. The first edition was published in 1906.
E.S.H.: (1) Scott book has no value. (2)
The “David Copperfield” is worth £1 Is. (3)
The German books have no special value....
E. : Question too vague. Send further
particulars... .W.F.: The American factory
abandoned the manufacture of phonographs and
records in 1929 and the Sydney co. closed that
department of its business in 1930. Supplies
of printed matter became exhausted and were
not replaced. Repairs to all types of phono-
graphs can be effected by R. R. Taylor and Co.,
364 Kent-street, Sydney. A. H. Wills Pty., Ltd.,
285 Little Collins-strect, Melbourne, may be
able to supply disc records and machine parts,
and cylinder-type records are obtainable from
the Phono Repair Co., Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
and from Wyper Howard, Ltd., 671 Hay-strect,
Perth, W.A A.G.: It is a State institution,
enriched by certain privates endowments which
are under Government control... .A.R.: The
car was a Humber Pullman, 60 h.p H.S.:
Official gradation lists of the A.I.F. are not avail-
able to the general public... .G.R.: After your
divorce from the first husband you were legally
entitled to marry again K.T.: A salted
biscuit in the form of a twisted ring.
L.G.H.: The Septembrists were the per-
petrators of the massacres which took place
in September, 1792, in Paris. The victims
were royalists and constitutionalists con-
fined in prison, and the massacres were under-
taken by the Commune of Paris... .J.S.: See
article on the subject in Vol. I “Australian En-
cyclopaedia”. .. .D. 8.: “The Grasses and Fodder
Plants of N.5.W.,” by E. Breakwell (65.)
F. Articles on the Douglas Social Credit
scheme appeared in The Bulletin on Sept. 23
and 30, 1931; Oct. 7, 14 and 21, 1931; Aug.
94 1932; Nov. 30, 1932; Dec. 21 and 28,
1932; Jan. 11, 18 and 25, 1933; Feb. 1 and
8, 1933; March 1, 1933; and June 28, 1933.
... .S.V.W.: (1) Lord Stonehaven married Lady
Ethel Sydney Keith-Falconer, daughter of the
ninth Earl of Kintore. (2) Lyons University was
established in 1808. A degree issued by it is
recognised by other European universities
W.R.N.M.: Write Japanese Consulate, 17
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.... .J.S.: Write Sec-
retary, Society of Genealogists, 5 Bloomsbury-
square, London, W.C.1.... J.J.D.: The article
mentioned appeared in Bulletin No. 50 of the
“Geological Survey.” Copy from the Mines De-
partment, Melbourne (Is. 6d.)... .R.T.: “Writ-
ing for the Screen,” by Arrar Jackson (55.), and
“How to Write a Film Story,” by Gertrude M.
Allen (35.) C.M.: Embroidered linens are
dutiable in the U.K. at 30 p.c. ad valorem if
foreign; free of duty if made in the British
Empire. For form* of declaration on parcel see
“Post Office Guide” A. 8.: Write to R.
Stavely, 96 Exhibition-street, Melbourne....
P.C.W.: Yes, Agriculture Dept., Sydney, could
supply full particulars... .H.G.W.: Try Swains,
123 Pitt-street; Gordon and Gotch, Barrack-
street; or N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Castle-
reagh-street. .. .E.M.D.: Try Brewer’s “Dic-
tionary of Phrase and Fable” D.S.F.:
Defence Dept., Melbourne furnished the
particulars, and may be able to supply addi-
tional details S.G.: “Whom” must follow
“of” F.P.: No horse owned by A. E.
Cooper was in the Melbourne Cup. Oliora,
Jambosa and Sun Clad, who are owned by him,
raced during the spring meetings F.M.T.: (1)
Federal: Rate 1 p.c. up to £2OOO and thereafter
an additional 1-5 p.c. for every £lOOO or part
thereof in excess of £2OOO. A rebate of one-third
is allowed where the estate passes to a widow-
children or grandchildren. State (N.S.W.);
£4OOO, but not exceeding £5OOO, 3 p.c. Pro-
fessional fees depend on circumstances. (2)
You should have the deed of transfer made
out by a solicitor. If you transfer the property
to your wife you will have to pay 2 p.c. on the
value E.F.8.: The book has no value....
LG D A.: Write Permanent Under Secretary
of State for War, the War Office, Whitehall,
London, S.W.I, giving full particulars... .P.S.:
Pelman Institute, 396 Flinders-lane, Melbourne.
R.C.: It is necessary to know the nature
of the business in which the employee works,
whether she is provided with board and lodg-
ings, and, if so, the weekly value... .C.S. .
Diana Wynyard was born in London on Jan. 16,
1906 S.R.L.: Baroness Orczy’s address is
Villa Bijou, Monte Carlo, France L.C.: The
reigning King of Afghanistan, Mohammed Nadir
Shah Ghazi, was born on April 10, 1880. He
was called to the throne on October 16, iy-V,
after a successful campaign against Habibullah,
who had assumed power on the abdication or
ex-King Amanullah E.M.S.: Jhe Wilder-
ness of the Upper Yukon, by C. Sheldon,
“Voyages on the Yukon, by H. Stuck, Earl.
Days on the Yukon,” by W. Ogilvie....W.G.:
The Federated Malay States compose Perak.
Selangor, Negri Sembilan and Pahang. Ihe
Malay States not included in the Federation ar .
Johore, Kedah, Perlis, Kelantan and Trengganu.
HTG.: A dramatic version of Hardys
“Tess of the D’Urbervilles” was staged in London
at the Barnes Theatre on Sept. 7, 1925, and at
the Duke of York’s on July 23, 1929... . R.K..
A great deal of Jorgen Jorgensen s unpublished
work is in the Mitchell Library, Sydney....
PJ.: The writer was wrong. The hen lyremra,
though not so powerful a songster as the cock.
is also an accomplished mimic R.A.: Yes, m
the case of debts secured by mortgage it exe-
cuted prior to Aug. 1, 1931, the Mortgagors
Relief Act, 1931, affords relief to mortgagors
on application to the Court. No general relie
is afforded to debtors in other cases...-S.r..
The treatment of fistulous withers in horses
necessitates surgical treatment by a. vet..
and arduous post-operative attention is tne.
usually necessary to effect a ciire.. -. J
Not at present. Kango drills used to be handier
by Leathercloth, Ltd., B.N.Q. Chambers,
George-street, Sydney.... (Many others mai •)


The Richardson Chain Hotel
*•* ” * 'i
ife!' i
!!**
Si
l!*»
\v)\\
»•
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street., Melbourne
(Opposite Kailway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
FRIENDLY SERVICE
ALL THE TIME
Some of the time, if not all the time, you must save money, but
if you are Mr. Average Citizen you know that all the time is nearer
the mark.
Whatever your margin on any one week’s salary, it won’t provide
for a sudden necessity to pay, say, £5O or £lOO. No one week’s
salary will provide education for your children, heavy medical
expenses, or comfort in your declining years.
Therefore, to make provision for the big calls, you have to save,
more or less, all the time.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank provides a friendly, efficient
savings service—all the time.
iflbimomralll) Savtngsla# of Australia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government .)
ENJOY THE COMFORTS
OF SYDNEY'S FINEST HOTEL
AT A LOWER TARIFF.
Centrally situated, yet away from the roar
of trams, etc. Running Hot and Cold Water
in every room.
Bed and Breakfast, from . . 10/6
Meals, ala carte, from ... 2/-
THE WENTWORTH,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Write to the Manager for full information.
Are you in trouble with
your Radio?
The Expert Advice of the Technical Editor of
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
will be yours, free of charge.
A “Bulletin” publication—Every Friday
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
For two minutes every year remem-
brance, like the Angel in the Bible,
troubles the waters, and the nation is
immersed in the well of silence. It is
not long to snatch from the cares of the
living day for remembrance of days that
are dead, yet nobody visiting the Ceno-
taph on Saturday could doubt that those
two minutes have a very vital significance,
not only to the old and middle-aged, but
to the youth of to-day. The wind was
crisp, the sun was hot in Martin-place.
The bronze sailor and soldier of the
Cenotaph gazed with inscrutable faces
into the future, while slowly at their feet
the tide of flowers, each petal a living
memory, rose. From Pitt and Castle-
reagh and George streets the human
tides flowed till soon the Place was solid
with man and woman, girl and boy.
The flags were lowered to half-mast,
there was the tramp of marching feet,
the flash of uniform, the glint of decora-
tion. Sad, sad fell the notes of the Last
Post. Silver with hope blew out the
Reveille. The Governor, in his Air Vice-
Marshal’s blue, added a pink and white
wreath to the poppies, the waratahs, the
lilies and the laurels. One-half mauve,
one-half white was the great wreath from
the Government and people of N. S.
Wales. There were flowers from cottage
gardens, there were bush flowers, there
were rich beauties from the florists’
shops. In the thin drizzle of rain on
Saturday night the soldier and the sailor
with the noble faces, the inscrutable gaze,
were still receiving their callers, still a
flower for old time’s sake was being
shyly dropped, and still on the steps of
the Post Office two buglers kept their
vigil.
For the first time on Monday last
the Town Hall flew its new City of Syd-
ney flag. It is a brave affair on a white
ground with dark-blue border. It is
emblazoned with the civic coat-of-arms,
in which the anchor, the crown and the
star are important. These surmount a
chief with a cross supported by the arms
of Townsend and Hughes; underneath
is a three-masted ship in full sail argent,
and at the base of all is a scroll in-
scribed with the Town Hall motto:
“I take, but I surrender.” Citizens who
pay their rates and electric light bills
regularly may derive some comfort from
pondering over the truth of this.
The Italian spirit was as much in evi-
dence among the guests as in the cocktails
at the medical Morans’ party last Friday.
This was in honor of the Marchesa
Torrigiani and her daughter Waltha, and
its quality can be gauged by the remark
of France’s Consul-General that he had
never before seen so much smart mil-
linery gathered under one roof. His own
wife wore a hat that was small, black and
of the toque variety ; the Marchesa’s was
of cinnamon-brown fine straw and had
a definite slant over the eyes. The frock
and furs that went with this were in tones
of brown, and the lady was kept busy
explaining to travellers of 1934 (and half
the guests seemed to have their thoughts
on Europe) that Rome was expensive but
Florence cheap.
Waltha sported a small red velvet lid of
tarn outline and talked a good deal to
the Bentivoglio sisters, Marie trig in berry
reds and Tina pictorial and fluffy. Esme
Burfitt wore the latest thing in plaid-
design marocain and the prettiest white
hat in the room. Mrs. Moran’s frock was
grace evolved from dark-blue georgette.
The Frank Whites were there, and Mrs.
Lambie (whose husband was tied up with
the Medical School’s affairs and couldn’t
frisk), the professorial Waterhouses and
the Sinclair Gillies couple. Miss
O’Connor in brown, Miss Farrell in black
and white and a small Fiaschi girl with
shining long hair were in the changing
groups that moved about the reception-
room and the lounge, where a fire burned
and roses languished.
Dr. E. F. Hepburn Evans, of Coota-
mundra, has given the usual diamond-
studded circlet to Margaret Mary, only
daughter of Mrs. E. L. Gleeson, of Tar-
combe, Little River, and formerly of
Hawthorn, Vic.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says that
while the races were on in Melbourne
she was busy going the rounds of
the women’s clubs to Cup tea parties,
and in the evening she was busy going
round at the hiccup parties. So many
Sydney gees had won that the boy
friends celebrated, and at all the froth-
and-bubble gatherings the general tone,
to quote the market reports, was
optimistic.
The Savoy was seething with medicine
on Saturday, when Dr. Temple Smith,
who hides behind the pen-name of
Charles Edgbaston, released the play he
had written in conjunction with R. J.
Fletcher. Throat-man Godsall looked
contemplative ; as though planning some-
thing in which the simmering sinus
and the torrid tonsil should play a part.
Why not? Dr. Temple Smith is an eye-
man, and his poor hero (the play has a
medical theme) is threatened with blind-
ness through three acts and overtaken by
it in the last. The play gripped the
audience from the ringing-up of the cur-
tain till its final fall, when the doctor,
much more nervous than the actors, took
his call like a man. In the party which
he brought to the play were the Dr.
Mervyn Archdalls ; and her white velvet
coat was collared to the ears in white fox.
Recently the A.B.C. coo-eed Madalah
Masson back to Australia, and last week
the brilliant pianist was heard in her first
broadcast recital. Now the A.B.C; is
getting quite puffed up because of the
hundreds of congratulations it is receiv-
ing on its musicianly judgment. Madalah,
until she went to Europe to polish off
about the time the dogs of war decided
to hold a combined choir in Europe,
was a Melbourne Con. girl. Concert plat-
forms of Europe and America have
reverberated to the Australian’s inter-
pretations of Brahms and Beethoven and
all the other master composers.
Some 66,000 poppy-petals rained down
on the audience in the Town Hall at the
close of the Festival of Remembrance.
The galleries were draped with flags and
bunting and the stage occupied by hun-
dreds of white-bloused small boys—com-
ponents of the combined schools’ choir,
which was led by conductor H. F. Tre-
harne in such numbers as “Advance, Aus-
tralia Fair,” and “Land of Hope and
Glory.” The Y.A.L. was also strong in a
programme that led up to the Act of
Remembrance. This opened with the
entrance of trumpeters and war colors
and banners carried by young Aus-
tralians, and ended with the Reveille.
About four hundred of the kiddies who
took part are soldiers’ sons.
The nurses of Prince Alfred’s don’t
know much about book-keeping, but
they are out after a sinking fund. At
least they are trying to snare sufficient
shekels to make a nice deep swimming-
pool for themselves. Mildred Bell, the
Queensland singer with that very rare
voice the dramatic mezzo-soprano,
poured out her notes to help the cause
last week at the Savoy. Mildred was the
first prima donna to sing in Brisbane’s
City Hall when that municipal stronghold
was being officially opened. Her father
is principal of the Baptist Theological
Students’ College in the northern capital,
and a brother is the Reverend Arthur
Bell, of Rose Park Congregational
Church, Adelaide, a noted linguist and
one of Australia’s foremost Hebrew
scholars. The family hails from South,
Australia, so naturally its members are
musical. They all play the organ and
the piano, and in addition some sing and
play the violin. Mildred goes off to
Europe next year for further study.
Stuart Gurr and Varney Monk will
have the pleasure of seeing their “Collit’s
Inn” open F. W. Thring’s theatrical sea-
son at Christmas, when it will be produced
with a strong cast at the Princess in Mel-
bourne. George Wallace will appear in
the leading comedy role, and old favorite
Claude Flemming will also take part in the
production. Producer F. T. Thring an-
nounces that he is negotiating for an
Australian artist who has made good in
America to return to Australia for one
of the leading roles. The composer,
Mrs. Varney Monk, has added to her
many successes by recently winning the
Broken Hill song competition.
During their annual reunion last
Thursday night ex-servicewomen stole
away one by one to a table draped with
the Union Jack, where, embowered in red,
white and blue flowers, stood a photo-
graph of Nancy Norris, who had been
their inspiration and their bead, and
whose death a few weeks ago is still a
poignant memory. Proceedings were
quieter than usual, but as happy as
Nancy herself would have wished.
Under the presidency of Anita Onslow
the night meandered on its friendly way
with talk of war experiences, with reci-
tation and song. The excitement of the
evening was the singing of a new com-
position by Raimond Pechotsch, “In My
Love Boat You and I,” the words of
which were written by Rose Crowther,
of Sydney, herself an ex-servicewoman.
William Edward Kelso, eldest son of
the Randwick sportsman who, if Topical
had not been blocked at a critical
moment, might have led in another win-
ner of the Melbourne Cup, is to be mar-
ried on November 30 to Edna Weeden,
a charming Randwick girl.
The Technological Museum is now
enriched with an example of sculptor
Theo Cowan’s pottery. Theo held a little
show in the Women’s Club, and the T.C.
curator snapped up a vase —a tree-trunk
on which a kookaburra is perched. The
show was bought out almost immediately,
one vase, the deep blue of some mid-Aus-
tralian lagoon in which tall white herons
stand reflectively, being among the first
to acquire the red spot. A lustrous green
bowl like a waterlily leaf and a sand-
wich dish, the facsimile of a banana
palm, complete with curling edge and
veining, were other beauties. Mrs.
Hubert Fairfax, Mrs. Hugh Munro,
Jessie Urquhart, the Kelso Kings, Judge
Backhouse and poet Dora Wilcox were
among those who rushed the bargains
in beauty.
Flight-Lieutenant Sturt Griffith, whose
dad was one-time Minister for Works
and Education, is on a world tour, call-
ing on the patent attorneys of every land.
The knowledge he gleans he is bringing
back to his firm of Griffith, Hassel and
Griffith, where his own job is that of
patent engineer. He declares that he will
also return with some new ideas in tailor-
ing and home decoration from the vil-
lages in the Bavarian Alps. He is par-
ticularly struck with a natty line in out-
fits made up of peaked-green hat with
enormous feather, open shirt, green
waistcoat, leather shorts of any color,
and usually with a seat patch, ribbed
stockings and enormous boots. Sturt is
lyric over the villages nestling in the
steep Alps, their little verandahs and
shutters colored in bright hues, and their
great window-boxes blazing with flowers
—a perfect setting for a Hans Andersen
fairy story.
Armies of little girls patiently bending
over samplers throughout the ages, little
girls, white, black and brown, mastering
the intricacies that were to result in the
Bayeux tapestries, the funeral tents of
the Egyptians, the canopy of the Temple
of Jerusalem, the bower-bird plumage
of Beau Brummel, the beetle-wing shawls
of India, the coats worn by the poet
princes of old Pekin—stretched out their
needles from the past and pricked the
consciousness of the present. The pre-
sent, quite a fashionable slab of it, came
to be pricked, and applauded the Stitches
in Time pageant, and murmured over
the piled-up treasures in the Blaxland
Galleries.
The manner in which the business was
got through at the metropolitan group
conference of the C.W.A. was an indi-
cation of how much the country would
be spared in electric light bills if ever
women really run Parliament. Mrs.
Hubert Fairfax (once again the presi-
dent) handled the meeting with native
tact added to experience ; the ballroom
of the Arts Club was the scene of action.
A chair of cookery, detached maternity
wards in all country hospitals, and the
appointment of a medical woman to the
Health Advisory Board for Australia
were three outstanding resolutions of the
day’s pow-wow. Mrs. Hugh Munro
opened the conference, which drew
about 200 women. Mrs. A. J. Malcom-
son was elected group secretary for the
year, Miss L. M. Northcott was
appointed treasurer.
Little Nellie Sadler has resigned from
the employ of the Prisoners’ Aid Associa-
tion, where she has done her job in the
shadow since her appointment many years
ago by Mr. (now Justice) Stephen, Mr.
Alec (now Judge) Thomson and Mr. R.
Windeyer (now K.C.). They, as well as
the committee of women she has worked
with, are immensely regretful at losing
her services. Miss Sadler of the big grey
eyes, soft voice, uncanny intuition and
diplomatic tactfulness has been the
woman visitor for the P.A.A. and a vital
force in the organisation that succors
the destitute family whose breadwinner
is in prison. The female wrongdoer in
her hundreds has been persuaded on to
the road to regeneration by the gentle
little lady, whose head and heart are
packed with the tragedies and comedies
of her lowly friends.


Conducted by WIN. I'OWLES.
CAKLYOK’S, Spencer-street (Melbourne's
Greatest Refined Hotel Values). Single Rooms
from 4/6 day; Double from 7/6. All meals
optional (also at reduced rates), in tearooms
or cafe; Room, with breakfast, from 6/6 Single
or 11/6 Double. All less 10 per cent, if staying
one week or more. Complete board from 10/6
day, 65/- week, both net, free garage. Special
rates for conferences, clubs, etc. The Manager,
Carlyon’s Hotel, Melbourne, is sufficient
address for your letter.
7 M
A
MA
those
present (s)
Any article from the brilliant
range of “Hecworth” E.P.N.S.
Plate makes a truly ideal gift a
present that will always be a
treasured possession. But remem-
ber! "All that glitters is not
genuine E.P.N.S. Plate.” Beware,
then, of inferior brands that are
continually being passed as
genuine E.P.N.S. The name
"Hecworth” is your sure protec-
tion against imitation.
Always insist on “Hecworth”
E.P.N.S. Plate. Ask for it by
name and look for the Hec-
worth” brand on every article.
ECWORT
. , E.P.N.S. PLATE
Melbourne
Chatter
Melbourne Cup Day dawned fine and
warm. Cars, gorgeous, middle-class or
rattly relics ; cabs, hansoms, drays and
least one four-horse drag (it was painted
red, with yellow wheels, and its steeds
wore ribbons in their manes), and trams
with freight holding on by their eye-
brows raised dust in Flemington-road.
Members went out in ease and comfort,
and seasoned motorists who weren’t
members, rather than pay ss. parking
fee, plus a long walk, went by train.
On the course patrons of the £1 and
10s. windows had a comparatively easy
time, but as the majority of the 90,000
present wanted five-bob flutters there
was a maelstrom in that area.
In the dress parade the much-photo-
graphed targets of cameramen stood and
looked their best, while less distinguished
folk tactlessly crossed the line of fire.
Every type of garment, from evening
frock to fur coat, was given a day out.
It being fine, one expected an inunda-
tion of organdie. Though it ran wild in
bows, bags and hats, and for gloves had
a tight finish with mesh and crochet,
there wasn’t much of it in the way of
frocks.
Hats ran riot. Some actually were
head coverings, but the majority were
purely ornamental accessories. Many
sported stiffened eye-veils, and the tidiest
heads thwarted the breezes with invisible
hairnets. Frith’s cartwheel exhibit didn’t
carry her parasol merely for show. When
in the crowded betting arena she
balanced upon it her outsize hat, holding
it high like a periscope out of harm’s
way. Little clamp-on-one-sides were
rampant; Frith’s had verandah orna-
mentations. The fez he depicts was pre-
valent among both flappers and their
mothers, and the jockey cap was affected
by punters who believe in dressing the
The cartwheel.
part. Attached to the chignon was the
last word in brim-trimmed spring
models.
The roses were marvellous. They
rambled in gorgeous profusion of color
over fences and railings. Window-boxes
in front of the stand were a blur of pinks
and yellows, and pansies and violas made
splashes of color on the lawns. The
perfume from myriads of blooms was
not strong enough, however, io drown
the aroma of Footscray when the wind
changed. Shoulder posies were a boon
to fastidious noses.
The Governor-General and his lady
had an escort of lancers up the straight.
The v.-r. and official compartments were
sombre with black and navy blue. The
Irvine lady remained loyal to her black
tulle ruffle. Mrs. Bruce Mead draped a
black coat over her spotty black-and-
white frock. Phyllis Bray, of Adelaide,
sported a flowered foulard and wide-
brimmed hat. Jacqueline Mackinnon’s
turnout included a navy-blue skirt and
white organdie jacket with spinning-
top sleeves. Mary Guy Smith wore
red, coin-spotted with white, and an
elastic band under her curly mop
of hair to anchor her cartwheel
hat with its half-inch of crown.
Audrey Poolman chose a cunning little
white jockey cap to go with her puff-
sleeved tartan taffetas. Mrs. Oswald
Benjamin’s large black hat sheltered her
floral crepe with its rust and gold figur-
ings. Noel Clapp’s all-black was exciting.
Buttons ran races down the front; it
had bouffant sleeves, and a snake-like
twist trimmed the crown of an elaborate
piece of millinery.
On Thursday, Ladies’ Day, there was
not a trace of the debris which littered
the lawns after the Cup. The snowstorm
of lost hopes had been gathered by
broom and skewer; the pansies and
violas showed no trace of the probing
there must have been among their smil-
ing faces. A cold wind brought out
wintry gear. Some calculating women
had airy hats on approval which were
left at home in lieu of toques, and will
The last word in smartness.
be returned to their shops unworn. One
woman determined to be a ptean of
spring in ivory crinkle crepe while icy
blasts were sending shivers down the
most warmly-clad spine. Mrs. Charlie
Lyon’s navy coat wore sumptuous fur
upon its collar; daughter Barbara was
in a grey flannel suit. Mrs. Greg. Grim-
wade, Mrs. John Grimwade and Ben-
digo’s Mrs. Aubyn Wilson were among
the smartly-coated and -furred. Mar-
jorie Glasscock was tailored in blue.
Ann McAulay was also clad in the
tweedy manner, brown being her choice
over an organdie blouse. Valerie Purves
was ice-blue from top to hemline ; her
little felt hat leapt upwards like the crest
of a wave. Margot Rosenthal found
sufficient warmth in her short swagger
coat of brick and rust-red tartan. Mrs.
Edric Henty wore cream in one of the
new loose hessian weaves.
The Australian Club came down from
its perch of dignity and arrayed itself
in fancy dress for an after-the-Oaks
party. Trees in tubs made groves and
woody nooks; ferns hung overhead;
flowers bloomed everywhere ; baskets of
flowers were draped upon the stairways,
and a lot of elaborate woodwork dis-
appeared completely under garden spoil.
A fountain bubbled in the dining-room,
and those in need of nourishment drifted
upstairs to another flower-laden room.
Welcoming was performed by president
E. R. Russell and his wife, who clad her-
self in blue and white checked georg-
ette. About 800 hands had a right to
be shaken.
Mrs. Ronald Cumming and Mrs.
Claude Palmer, both of the Western Dis-
trict, decided, as they each had daughters
to chaperon during Race Week, to give
the young things a party. Gtosvenor
was the meeting-place. Deb. Claudia
Palmer emerged full-fledged in ivory-
lacquered satin, a mist of tulle envelop-
ing her petalled neckline. Lorraine Cum-
ming, bud of a year ago, draped her
slenderness with dull-surfaced gold
suede. The Hore-Ruthvens were among
those invited. Gwenda Boyd wore
draped lily-green lace. Diana Knox was
The fez.
also in lace, pearl-white being her choice
of color. Keith Murdoch and his lady
were there, also many BaiJlieus and
Clarkes ; the Alec Russells, her' blistered
crepe blushing with rosy pink; the
Charles Armytages and black-satin-clad
Alison Fitchett, of Terang. Rosalind
Parbury was in white and green, and
Betty Macpherson in puffy pink satin.
Officers of the cruiser Canberra, who
have had well-filled social engagement
books, gave an end-of-the-race-week
dance. The ship was all crimped and
curled with bunting, and as smart as
brasso and fresh paint could make it.
The band did its job among hanging
draperies and green stuff, and dancing
feet trod the smooth deck among the
gadgets that always stick up unexpect-
edly on ships of war. A model of a
schooner ploughed its way across an
ocean of napery at the Admiral’s dinner
party, given as a preliminary to special
guests of honor. Premier Argyle’s lady
was a devotee of all-black. Captain
Cyril Bradley’s wife tied a chilli-red sash
about the waist of her stone-shaded crepe
suede. Commanders Butler, Cresswell,
J. B. Newman and A. D. Cairns were
there with their wives.
Pat Carnegie is a fully-fledged deb.
Her parents gave her coming-out party
last week at their Kew home. The panelled
ballroom was lavishly filled with flowers,
and the dining-room, where the young
things supped, was attractive with pinky-
mauve sweet-peas and the flicker of tall
green candles. Mrs. Walter Carnegie’s
orchid ninon flowed into a train and
trailing sleeves. Patricia was self-pos-
sessed in her white ribouldingue with its
floor-sweeping draperies, and orchids
were pinned to her evening bag. Most of
the guests were youngish, like Susan
The jockey-cap.
Staughton, Valerie and Shirley Pratt, Pat
Newbigin and Joyce and Barbara Hay-
den-Smith. Judge and Mrs. Wasley, the
A. E. Kimptons and the Charles Moore
couple were among those who could plav
bridge if they chose.
Joan, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Angus
Mitchell, and Harry, son of the H. M.
Sargoods, were wedded in St. George’s,
Toorak. The bride made her promises
in a mist of ivory net; the skirt, with
true-love knots scattered among its folds,
descended into a train. A Limerick lace
veil, worn by the bride’s mother at her
wedding, had a tulle foundation, and a
silver holder, which had been cherished
by great-grandmother, supported the
bouquet of lilies-of-the-valley. Bride’s
sister Nancy, Mary McKenzie, Barbara
Bellair and Lesley Vine were the attend-
ing quartette in a swirl of azalea-pink net
frilled and puffed at hem and sleeve.
Wreaths of buds encircled their hair.
The cake was cut at No. 9.
Dr. Georgina Sweet is back from the
U.S.A. and an energetic probing into
social and economic problems. She
attended the conference of Pacific Rela-
tions at Banff, and drank informal cups
of tea with officials of the Pan-Pacific
Women’s Association. As president of
the Y.W.C.A., Dr. Sweet took a walk to
the Hollywood Studio Club, run by the
Y.W. for small fry of the movies. No
hectic nights for the lassies who live
there. They work hard and are intent
on saving their complexions and dollars
by early nights and cereal foods.
The festivities of Perth:
The Pleiades Club wound up its season with
a hop in its pillared hall. President Mrs.
Norton was there in summery sprigged muslin;
Jean Lang did committee duties m billiard-
green lace, with whisperings of velvet, Betty
Smith’s diamente-strewn cape swung over sunset
lace; Nancy Craven-Griffith tapped apple-green
slippers which matched her gleaming satin;
Noelle and Sylvia Perry were there, the former
in. peacock satin and the latter in Athenian-cut
beige lace. . , , T ,
Gleaming white in the moonlight, Karrinyup,
Golf Club’s stucco walls Served as a landmark
for a stream of cars carrying guests to the
club’s hop. Molly Mahood trod a measure
in black lace drifting into coffee georgette,
Mollie Noble’s Chantilly flowed like honey;
vivid orange and green striped Margot Law s
crinkle crepe; Muffle Forrest was encased in
ripe cherry velvet, and Helen Blackman tiea
her almond-blossom satins with a bouffant bow.
Bridesmaids at the Ashton— Browning-Turner
wedding swung baskets of flowers against frotny
embroidered organdies. Dorothy Leach bil-
lowed pastel blue, and Claudia Browning-Tunn 1
rose pink. Bride Phyllis liberally sprinkled
pearls and silver on her creamy renaissance
A replica of the Greek statue “Charioteer of
Delphi” has a new home in a niche in front
of the Uni. administration building. Its donor,
Mrs. R. T. Robinson, wrapped herself in tomato
flamisol, shaded one eye with white tagel straw'
and formally handed the image over to the
James lady, who accepted him on behalf o.
her Chancellor husband. Prof. Whitfield’s help-
meet poured tea for the gathering.
Pink and white gladioli, interspersed with
palms, did sentinel duty at St. Andrew s for
the Malloch-Flight-Smith nuptials. Bride
Peggy’s mushroom Spanish laces sported a large
bow, and she wore a ruched Raleigh cloaklet
in luminous velvet with a matching picture hat
of mohair straw. Sister Lesley’s peach georg-
ette was epauletted with frills and shaded by
a parasol beige straw headpiece. Glasses were
charged at the Esplanade Hotel, where Mrs.
Flight-Smith’s black ninons showed traceries of
white. , , ... 4
Glittering swords held by naval and military
officers made a bridal arch at St. George s
Cathedral for Lieut. Leslie Tansing and Pippin
Carew Reid. The bride caught the glint of
summer skies in her liberty linen plaited with
deeper blue velvet ribbons, wide ballibuntal
headpiece and sheaf of delphiniums. ’Maids
Betty McCullough and Flower Southwood wore
harmonising linen, caped and buttoned, and
topped with beige straw. Small sister Dawn
took part in the procession, a diminutive Vic-
torian in blue-sprigged linen.
Killowen, Mrs. R. T. Robinson’s lovely home
at Mt. Lawley, saw the chatelaine, girt with
snow-flecked marine-blue ninon, receiving guests
against a background of rhododendrons and
delphiniums. Daughter Mrs. Emile Oliver
greeted guests in airy mousseline sprayed with
green, and Betty’s blush-pink chiffons flowed
from a softly-draped cowl neckline. Noelle
swirled a multitude of frills at the hem of her
diaphanous blue tulle.
The flowerbeds of Minnewarra unfurled their
brightest petals for the W. H. Vincents’ garden
party. The hostess .crossed the sward in corn-
flower-blue ninon, and daughter Helen’s chiffons
were scattered with mixed pastel buds. Lesley’s
white linen did service on the tennis court,
where the younger guests disported.
Cathie, the Stanley Cumpstons’ only hqpeful,
has agreed to enter into the safe-keeping ot
Robert McGregor, a stalwart from Port Hed-
land.
Social doings of the Speck:
The naval and military dance, held in the
Hobart Masonic Hall and the clubhouse, was a
swish affair. President Col. H. Nairn Butler
and Mrs. Butler received guests at the entrance
{Continued on next page.)


“FINEST
AUSTRALIAN NOVEL
SINCE ‘PAGEANT’ ”
“THE DOUGHMAN”
By ROBERT DESMOND TATE
ON SALE at the end of this month. After reading “THE
DOUGHMAN, one of Australia’s leading literary critics wrote
as follows:
“Why has the life with which this
novel deals been passed over by
Australian writers? It is more than
an author’s brilliant first novel; it
is the first of its kind among our
novelists. It translates, in terms of
the sharpest realism, an aspect of
life in the raw in the sweat and
*
■
,o igr
.
raMI
, - fi'm>
: m
l:v" '^>'v
■
steam, the stealth and sinister deal-
ings that may form the atmosphere
of industrial workers. It shows the
insidious effect such atmosphere
may have on those who breathe it
men and girls. It shows the re-
action of a girl of clean character
and a man who, in other circum-
stances, might have been an inspira-
tion to men. As setting for t'he vivid
rapid-action drama of these and the
rest of his oddly-assorted group,
the author has introduced a bake-
house, of the days before stringent
supervision by authority, when
night-baking held men to the glare
of the fires, providing their part of
a city with its daily loaf.
* A hellish setting, appropriate to
such a queer figure as the leading
character, the Doughman. The
figures come to life in their setting,
playing their parts in this realistic
drama, which, for all the relentless-
ness of its realism, carries with it a
quick spice of humor and the soften-
ing influence of romance.”
Ask your Bookseller to reserve
Copy for you.
a
“THE DOUGHMAN”
{An Endeavour Press Publication.)
PRICE - . 6f-
to the ballroom, where decorations were in
fuchsia shades. The clubrooms were given over
to bridge and billiards. His Ex. and Lady
Clark were there, she in black cire satin, plainly
cut, with flared hemline. The v.-r. party also
included Lieut.-Governor Lewis and his lady.
Among the guests were Col. and Mrs. Whit-
ham, Major and Mrs. Cox, Lieut.-Col. J. W.
Turner, Major and Mrs. Strutt, John Gellibrand
and his lady and Lieut.-Commander and Mrs.
Heriot. Three debs. —Joan Mason, Nona Gray
and Miss C. M. Dulon —were presented by Mrs.
Butler.
Sheila Shone and Margaret Buchanan were
joint secretaries of a ball at the Continental
(Hobart), held just after the Show. Decorations
were caricatures of prize stock, done by Robert
Montgomery, and committee badges were little
animals cut out of wood. Ferns and pale-
tinted sweet-peas decked the supper-tables, and
clustered balloons made the ballroom gay. The
frocking of the girls was dainty and charming.
His Ex. and Lady Clark having crossed the
strait to see the Melbourne Cup run, Lieut.-
Governor Lewis and his wife headed society
at the Armistice Ball in the Hobart City Hall.
President Johnson, of the R.S.L., and his wife
did the honors. Official guests included the
Military Commandant and Mrs. Whitham,
Mayor and Mayoress Wignall, Major and Mrs.
Johnson, Col. and Mrs. Mullen, Commander
and Mrs. Heriot, Senator and Mrs. C. W. Grant
and the Howard Buchanans.
Sheila Maxwell and Peggy Dick, of the same
age to the day, were treated by their respective
parents to a joint dance to celebrate their
coming of age. The hop was staged at the
Alan Maxwells’ house, near Kingston Beach.
The big ballroom was decorated with ivy and
arum-lilies. Peggy was in white satin, cut with-
out a superfluous fold, and Sheila set off her
russet hair with befrilled apple-green organdie.
At midnight the girls were presented with little
gold keys.
Hobart’s Mayor and Mayoress gave a fare-
well party in honor of Dr. Gregory Sprott, the
city’s Chief Health Officer, who is retiring after
35 years’ service. About 150 guests danced
and listened to music.
Mary Johnson, Mrs. Landon Fairthorne’s
daughter, who went from Launceston some time
ago to stay with her aunt, Mrs. Rhode, Kobe,
Japan, met her fate there in Lieut. Curt Wenn-
berg, A.D.C. to Prince Carl of Sweden. The
prospective bride arrives home shortly to
collect frocks and frills.
Winsome, second daughter of the late W. and
Mrs. Loney, of Sandy Bay, and Lancelot,
youngest son of the R. M. Harveys, announce
their engagement.
The two Grant girls, Dora and Nancy, who
lingered on the Continent after their father
and mother started home from Europe, are
home again, with tales to tell of travel in
Germany, France, Belgium, Italy, Holland and
Spain. Dora studied kindergarten-work methods
in London.
A few lines from Adelaide:
At the Women’s Club the Companions of the
Garden held a flower show on a small scale.
Lady Hore-Ruthven attended and was presented
with a long brass bowl filled with roses, wat-
sonia and delphiniums 1 .
In pleasant weather a children’s party was
held at the residence of Mr. and Mrs. George
Morphett, Morphettville, to raise money for
the S.P.C.A. There were bazaar stalls, one
devoted to fireworks being under the care of
Mrs. Lavington Bonython. Pony rides made a
great appeal to the small boys. Afternoon tea
was served in the garden.
Mrs. Walter Bagot gave a luncheon party to
welcome Mrs. John Baker, who, with his hus-
band, has just returned after a trip to England
and the Continent.
Mayoress Glover was the guest of the
Lyceum Club at morning tea, and gave an
account of her experiences in London, including
attendance at a Buckingham Palace garden
party.
ine social committee of the League of
Nations staged a jigsaw puzzle afternoon at the
Piccadilly. The venture was voted a pleasant
change from bridge, and was very well attended.
Mrs. Peter Robin was the first to complete her
puzzle and won the prize.
At St. Peter’s College chapel Dr. Alan
Lendon and Margaret, elder daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. C. A. Edmunds, of Aldgate, ex-
changed vows. Thfe bride looked charming in
a frock of exquisite French lace. Her brides-
maids and little flower-girl were frocked alike in
rose-pink organdie, with picture hats of the
same material.
The teacher had been giving her class
a geography lesson ; to deepen the im-
pression she asked them to spell the
names of various rivers and towns. The
results were far from 100 per cent., but
she made a last valiant stand. “Now,
who knows how to spell Jamaica?” she
asked brightly. No response from the
shining hands in the front rows, but from
the back a grubby little paw shot up.
“You tell them, Johnnie.” Johnnie, all
grins, stood up and spelled the word
slowly but surely. “Splendid, Johnnie.
That shows great observation.” But
Johnnie said modestly, “Aw, teacher,
that’s nothing. I see it every night on
the old man’s rum-bottle.”
“Lao-dah”: French youth is showing
some of the pacifism of Oxford under-
graduates, and courts-martial of recalci-
trants who refuse to serve the usual
term are frequent. The falling-olf in
recruits has become so serious that the
project of introducing Africans to make
up the deficiency is being revived. The
b'ack soldier, however, who was largely
employed to police the German territories
occupied by France after Versailles, left
a bad smell behind. And there is a new
factor to be considered, according to one
high-placed military authority. Native
troops are easy prey to Communist pro-
paganda, and while that can be controlled
when they stay in their own country it
would be a different matter in France.
When a negro soldier goes back to his
homeland with a head stuffed full of un-
digested revolutionary ideas he looks
less like a saviour than a lump of poten-
tial dynamite.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“0.W.W.”: Flour costs over £l4 a ton
in Maoriland, and bakers charge what
they like for bread. A 41b. loaf costs 9d.
at Masterton, lOd. and lid. at Gisborne,
and Is. 2d. at Nuhaka. I can vouch for
the Is. 2d.; I pay it.
* * * *
Nancy Bavin has had an article
accepted by London “Punch.” Nancy is
at present staying with her sister Shirley
in London. Evidently writing is in the
blood, as her mother—then Edyth
Winchcombe—had her first story printed
in the children’s paper “Young Aus-
tralia” when she was seven years of age.
* * * *
Having failed to reach an agreement
about the war debts, J. Bull is making,
and Uncle Sam is accepting, a December
payment of 7,500,000 dollars. As before,
President Roosevelt says, “I shall not
regard the British Government as in de-
fault.” But Lang’s newspaper announces
in a seven-column headline that “Great
Britain Will Default Again.” This is
quite in the spirit of the Dubliners who
burn Union Jacks on Armistice Day.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: The one-hour unpaced
record for a pushbiker, 27 miles 863
yards, put up by Oscar Egg in Paris
20 years ago, has been cracked. The
new titleholder, a Dutchman named Van
Hont, added 373 yards to Oscar’s figures.
* * * *
“Shirley”: When Oliver Kay, winner
of the Australian women’s championship
this year, followed that up by taking the
M.L. title from Miss Gaisford, the M.L.
women golfers decided to send the lasses
to England next year to compete in the
English and British championships. The
hat is being wafted round the clubs for
the necessary funds, and the chink of the
cash as it is thrown in quite drowns the
rumblings of the local earthquakes.
“T.E.L.”: D. R. Jardine, whatever
the Australian barracker may think of
him, is, at any rate, not a sheik. In a
written reply to a request by a Queens-
land B.Y.T. (who admired his stoic quali-
ties) for an autographed photo., he
apologised very nicely for having “no
‘snapshots’ of myself of any kind. lam
afraid,” concluded the English captain,
“that you must take my word for it that
you would not like one if you had one.”
* * * *
“Buzz”: These alleged motor records
make me tired, and the amount of money
wasted in cabling trivial advances on pre-
vious performances gives me a pain.
British speed driver Cobb hoisted a new
record for 100 kilometres the other day,
and, since he had done a mile and a half
per hour better than a seven-year-old
record, the feat was possibly worth not-
ing. But he has followed on this with a
second attempt, in which he improved
on his first shy by 42 per cent, of a mile
per hour, and the world is expected to
throw up its hat amidst acclaiming howl-
ings.
* * * *
“Shinty”: Australian hockey followers
who were thrilled by the Army-in-India
hockey team when it toured Australia and
M.L. some years ago will be glad to hear
that another side of Indian experts will
probably come along in 1935. W. B.
Hudson, the old Australian international,
who has been in India for some time, sug-
gested the tour to the Bengal hockey
authorities. They clicked with the notion,
and Hudson, who will shortly be back in
Australia, has been empowered to go into
details with the Australian governing
body.
* * $ *
“Splash”: It is a long time since Aus-
tralia entertained a swimming flapper
from overseas —the last writer can bring
to mind was that beauteous platinum
blonde Ellen Bleibtrey. However, the
authorities have invited English girl Joyce
Cooper to come along early next year,
and the lass has replied that she will
land in Sydney by January 1, or earlier
if she comes overland. As she has to
compete in the Sydney section of the Aus-
tralian championships beginning on
January 13, she will probably be given
every chance to settle down. Among
other records the lady holds the Empire
Games figures for the 100 yards with
62 2-ssec., also a British record. Aus-
tralia’s best is Victorian Frances Bult’s
62 3-ssec.
* * * *
“Corner”: Though dirt-track motor-
cycling is still going strong in the Old
Dart, it is being threatened by a varia-
tion of the game on ice. The machines
are fitted with special skates instead of
front wheels, while the back tyres are
heavily studded to enable them to get a
grip. “Broadsiding,” always spectacular,
is especially so in the new sport, throw-
ing up clouds of snow and ice. At the
first meeting at Bournemouth last week
speeds up to 40 m.p.h. were obtained,
though the tracks were necessarily small,
being confined to an enclosed ice-skating
rink. With a hard winter and plenty of
open-air ice available, it is expected then*
will be a boom, especially as dirt-track-
ing is, for the most part, a summer sport.
* * * *
“Centre Court”: A new method of
drawing for tennis tourneys is receiving
tentative approval from Wimbledon.
Under the present system, which prevails
in Australia also, one of the first two
players seeded gets a bye and is thus
given a big start over the other. Byes
grouped at the top and bottom of the
draw give undue preference to players
in the first and fourth quarters. With
the new system, the byes are spread
evenly through each quarter. If the inno-
vation works out as its originators claim
it will probably be adopted in Australia,
provided the old folks at home give it
their imprimatur.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Some interesting
sidelights on the growth of professional-
ism in tennis have been supplied by
Hughes, captain of the British tennis
team now in Australia. He considers that
the question turns on whether the young
stars of to-day like Austin and Perry—
he spoke only for his own folk, of
course—would go after the brass. If they
did, then there would be a general slide.
So far the secessionists have been near-
ing the “has been” class, like Tilden and
Cochet. There are tons of money at
present in America for professionals,
and in Germany and Czecho-Slovakia big
gates are rewarding the players. France,
on the other hand, is very shy of profes-
sional sport of any kind, and Britain,
though consenting to payment for play-
ing football and cricket, doesn’t seem to
cotton to the cash idea where tennis is
concerned.
* * * *
“Crick”: Another by-product of the
House of Commons rumpus over Brad-
laugh *5O years ago and Labouchere’s
whole-souled participation in it (B.
8/11/*33) was that it gave the Prime
Minister of the day that affectionate
sobriquet by which he will always be
remembered. It wasn’t much good the
Commons expelling Bradlaugh and de-
claring his seat vacant when his con-
stituents took the first opportunity of
re-electing him, and Labby did his best
to ensure that they should. Rushing up
to Northampton on the eve of the poll
on one occasion, he thrilled a crowded
audience with a moving picture of an
interview (probably apocryphal) between
the head of the Government and him-
self. “And what do you think that
Grand Old Man said to me?” asked
Labby rhetorically. “He put his hand on
my shoulder and said, ‘Bring him back,
Henry, bring him back! ’ ” There was a
great outburst of cheering, and Brad-
laugh went back—and Gladstone re-
mained the G.O.M. till the end of his
days and ever since.
* * * *
“Quiverful”: An English bishop, dis-
cussing the growing advocacy for the
sterilisation of the unfit, already trans-
lated into legislation in Germany, con-
tends that, if the necessity is conceded,
perfectly fit couples should not only be
encouraged but compelled to have large
families. It is perhaps the logical corol-
lary, but the bishop doesn’t offer any
suggestion as to how it is to be done.
Many countries already subsidise parent-
hood ; Mussolini and Hitler have gone a
bit further in substantially rewarding it.
Further, bachelors are already taxed in
many parts of the world, and there is of
course no reason why married couples
regarded as capable of keeping cradles
reasonably well filled shouldn’t be taxed
or penalised for falling short of what
is expected of them. But how anything
like direct compulsion can be exercised
it is doubtful if a whole bench of bishops
would be able to explain.
* * * *
“A.M.R.” (New Hebrides): On the
island of Tanna the natives bury their
dead, but they do so in a peculiar
fashion. The body is laid in an alcove
excavated in one side at the bottom of
the 6ft. grave. The mat-lined alcove is
then fenced off, and the empty main
grave filled in. The reason for this is
that, according to Tanna law in the past,
a man suspected of causing deaths by
magic (and all deaths that didn’t occur
in battle were ascribed to this cause),
if caught by deceased’s friends, might be
killed. But the law also decreed that if
the hunted man could reach the grave
and, by plunging his spear down through
the soft earth, touch the body of his
alleged victim, he must go scot free. A
black genius, afraid of being the next
victim, put a stop to this avenue of
escape by inventing alcove burial. No
spearsman, however hefty, can drive
through five feet of hard earth.


r r\-
*
The Razor that Really Shaves
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6; with guard. IG/-
Xvlo. Ivory. Grain Handle .. 15/6; with guard, 19/-
Keal Ivory Handle 21/-; with guard, 24/6
Strongly-made, grained leather case free with each razor.
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, for Sin., Jin. ancl Jin.
blades, 3/6 post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
7-day sets, (7 razors in
oak case) : Black, 85/-
Xylo 100/-
Ivory 140/-
All post free.
Guard extra.
Plum Razors are in two
widths, fin. and |in.
All are set ready for
use, guaranteed, and
kept in order for two
years free of charge.
THE EXAMINER,
LAUNCESTON.
NOW
IN ITS
92nd YEAR.
The Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner“ Weekly Courier” and “Saturday
Evening Express” obtainable from
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
271 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
The Radio
Programmes
at your
finger tips
Find at a glance the chief musical items, the
radio plays, the talks or the dance programmes.
The ideal listeners’ paper.
AUSTRALIAN RADIO NEWS
A "Bulletin” publication. Every Friday
AUN
Rlc67
w{
f W
V%C
Zs°*C %
V- l’O
'bWM A
«•«*
RABAUL
S M\
BRISBA^t
Sy DN£y
The Round Tour to Japan gives the
best value of any Tourist Trip to-day.
The Australian £ is worth 25/- in Japan.
No Hotel Expenses; the Liner is
Your Hotel
S.S. NELLORE
LEAVES SYDNEY DEC. It
S.S. TAN DA
LEAVES SYDNEY JAN. 13
S.S. NANKIN
LEAVES SYDNEY FEB. 10
Joint Passenger
Agents:
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON & CO.
Sydney - Melbourne - Brisbane
Adelaide
CHINA& JAPAN
E. & A. Line Steamers offer to passengers a
varied and interesting route, calling at Rabaul,
Manila, Hongkong, Shanghai, and five ports
in Japan.
ROUND TRIP STEAMER FARES:
FIRST SECOND
SYDNEY TO
YOKOHAMA
AND RETURN
£9O £s6'! 5
No Exchange on Passage Money
sdf
The Beach Inspector
BY “CAUBOY.”
THE beach inspector awoke at his
usual hour and listened, without
enthusiasm, to the familiar sound
of his wife burning his breakfast. Then
he went into the bathroom and washed
himself —from the neck upwards, it being
only Thursday. He returned to the bed-
room and sat on the bed, pondering the
futility of existence. A wage of four
quid a week was a poor return for a
job involving the risk of personal
violence, not to mention social obloquy.
The morning was already hot, and he
looked at his clothes, hanging on the
back of a chair, distastefully. He
dressed the same winter and summer,
and would have regarded any other
action as effeminate. After deciding to
shave, and then deciding not to, he pro-
ceeded to don his garments. He put on
a woollen singlet, a thick cotton shirt,
a stiff collar with frayed edges, a spotted
tie, stout socks and boots, serge trousers,
vest and coat. He had worn the trousers
for three years and the coat for five,
and they were beginning to sag at the
knees and elbows.
He ate his bacon and eggs moodily,
scanned the sporting pages of the morn-
ing paper, and then read carefully the
latest clues in the latest murder case. He
opened his mouth to propound his own
theory on the last-named subject, and
then closed it again without saying any-
ting. What was the use? His wife never
showed any respect for his opinions.
Swallowing a second cup of tea, he put
his peaked cap on his head, and, having
neither spoken to nor looked at his life’s
companion since arising, he opened the
street door and stepped straight into blaz-
ing sunshine.
It was a lovely day. Miniature breakers
were slapping softly on the beach, and
delicate cirro-stratus clouds were lying
along the blue horizon. But the tide was
in and the sand was soft, and the beach
inspector’s boots sank in it distressfully.
He looked north at the long stretch of
shore, empty except for a couple of dogs
and the usual row of bathing-boxes, sag-
ging all ways. He looked south and saw
some groups of people on the sand and
some children paddling. He decided to
work in that direction, at least as far
as the Beach Arms.
Trudging through the heavy sand, he
began to perspire freely, but his mind
was busy with an aspect of the murder
case which had just occurred to him. The
new theory was so exciting in its sim-
plicity that it was only mechanically that
he paused and gave a peremptory order
to a girl of ten to replace the shoulder-
strap of her costume, which had fallen.
He tramped on, feeling perceptibly
lighter in spirit. The theory about the
murder was working out splendidly. The
body had been found in a private gar-
den. Yes, but that did not mean that
that was where the murder had been
committed. It might have been com-
mitted under a street lamp and carried
to the garden. Those “demons,” the
fools, were chasing the wrong people, as
usual. He paused and traced a plan on
the sand with his finger, using a shell
to indicate the victim.
A mile or so further on black melan-
choly suddenly overwhelmed the beach
inspector. The wind had dropped and
the sun had grown hotter. A wave had
slopped into his boots, taking sand with
it. The theory about. the murder had
turned out to be entirely fallacious, and
the sand seemed to be getting softer on
• the outside of his boots and harder in-
side. A large patch of damp was show-
ing on his coat between the shoulder-
blades, and the frayed edges of his collar
were causing intolerable irritation.
Rounding a headland, he came sud-
denly on a sight that arrested his atten-
tion and made him forget all minor sen-
sory stimuli.
Two girls were standing on the beach
in bathing costume. Contrary to Regu-
lation 588, to start with. They should
have been either walking towards the
water or away from it.
Their skins were shining with water,
so they had been bathing. That was con-
trary to Regulation 155 Z, which pre-
scribed that females should not enter
the water between the hours of 10 a.m.
and midday, 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. and 10
p.m. and 5 a.m.; but the beach inspector
did not know that, the regulation,
although it was still in the by-laws, hav-
ing fallen into abeyance.
Nor did the beach inspector know that
their costumes were also contrary to the
regulations —at least, he did not know
how contrary they were. In fact, he
would have been as astonished as would
anybody else if they had been dressed in
strict accordance with the regulations,
which prescribed, and had prescribed
ever since the first female dared public
opinion and went sea-bathing in Mel-
bourne, that the body should be covered
from neck to knee, and from shoulder
to elbow, a skirt reaching from the waist
to two inches below the knee also being
obligatory.
Only a year ago a girl from the Mallee
on her first visit to the metropolis had
worn such a costume —in fact, it had
belonged to her grandmother —and the
beach inspector had joined heartily in
the laugh that greeted her appearance.
But it was none of these considerations
which made the beach inspector’s blood
burn with moral instead of solar heat,
and caused his feet to quicken. The flag-
rant offence was that the two girls were
extremely attractive-looking. What made
things worse, they were unconscious—
insolently unconscious—of the alluring
spectacle they presented. They continued
to gaze at some object out at sea, appar-
ently unaware that a human volcano, in
a shabby suit, a peaked cap and boots
that sank into the sand squeakily, was
approaching them.
The beach inspector tramped slowly
past them. Then he suddenly turned and
advanced on them with threatening
finger. ‘’’Ere you!” he shouted hoarsely,
“dontcher know how to dress decently on
a beach yet?”
The girls looked round, startled. The
taller opened her mouth to speak and
then thought better of it, or perhaps
words failed her; then both moved
quickly off towards their dressing-gowns.
The beach inspector swung smartly on
his heel and resumed his march in the
general direction of the Beach Arms. His
shoulders were thrown well back, his
chest stuck out, he whistled, fatigue had
vanished. Without knowing it he felt
one with Savonarola, Torquemada, Pas-
cal and Martin Luther.


The Poet and the Crang Utan.
A LEGEND OF BORNEO, BY M. G. SKIPPER.
ONCE upon a time, in the country
of the Bengkahak Dusuns, in the
Tempassuk lowlands of British
North Borneo, there was a man named
• Lomaring, who, in grief and sorrow over
the death of his wife and children—they
had all been buried along with his house
and keladi field in a landslide—left the
scene of the disaster and went far into
the jungle.
As Lomaring walked along he thought
about his wife, who had been a good
wife* about his children and about his
former existence, which had been com-
fortable ; and he felt depressed. But
presently, in the damp, hot air between
the tree-trunks, his body began to sweat,
and as his pores opened the mood of
reminiscent sadness fell from him.
Lomaring began to look around him
and noted that in the jungle, which was
almost as dark at noonday as it was at
midnight, life was going on beneath his
, feet and above his head, and that it was
arranged in three storeys. There was
the life of the forest floor, the under-
growth, which was close to him —so close
that sometimes it touched him with its
breath and stung his nostrils with its
smells, and he could hear it but not see
it or touch it; there was the life of the
forest eaves, where birds flew in pursuit
of one another like painted projectiles,
and where great fruit hung like glowing
.Chinese lanterns —he could see it but
he could not touch it; and there was
the life of the forest roof
The life of the forest roof he could
not smell, nor see nor touch, but occa-
sionally the sound of its ceaseless activi-
ties came down to him in sudden crash-
ings, shrieks and howls and equally quak-
ing silences; and he felt that the life of
the highest storey must be the most
lovely.
As he walked along he began to muse
on the wonder of these three worlds
existing according to their own laws and
unaware of each other’s presence ; and
he began to make a poem about it. The
poem grew and grew in his mind as he
walked until it absorbed his whole being.
He did not know that his feet were blis-
tered and bleeding, that the thorns, briars
and lawyer vines had stripped every
article of clothing off his back one by
one until he was walking naked ; but
suddenly he felt hungry. He stopped
and said to himself, I will go into the
lowest world of the undergrowth and
get some food ; he thought like that be-
cause food had always come to him
easily.
But when he stepped into the under-
growth, noisily and with blundering feet,
he found that there was no life there.
It was silent; it had died; there was
nothing. So he stepped back on to the
path and looked up at the second world
of the eaves, but he could not climb to
such a height because he had never had
to, and he had known no weapons other
than the spade, the hoe and the mattock.
He was nonplussed.
As the day wore on and it became
hotter and he became fainter, fear
clutched his heart, and he rushed to and
fro after the noises in the undergrowth ;
but they died before he reached them,
as if it were he who had destroyed them.
At last he lay down beneath a great
lanan tree by the bank of a river and
presently he fell asleep, exhausted. While
he slept a female orangutan, which had
its nest in the same tree and had been
away hunting for food, came home, lifted
Lomaring in her arms and carried him to
her home high up in the branches.
When Lomaring awoke it seemed im-
possible for him to climb down, so he
remained there. Each day the orangutan
brought him fruit of various kinds, also
occasionally boiled rice, stolen from the
houses of the ladangs, and he began to
grow strong again. At first he declined
her advances, and she became angry,
showing her teeth and nails. Finally she
bit him in the shoulder, and then he
surrendered.
Lomaring would now have liked to
escape, but he feared the revenge of the
orangutan too much to risk an attempt;
besides, his stomach was now full and
he had leisure to contemplate the world
of the forest roof which had seemed
to him when he was on the ground to be
the most beautiful; and he began to
make poems about it.
One day, when his wife came home
angry because the hunting had been diffi-
cult, he recited the poem he had made
that morning ; but it only made her more
angry. So he said to himself, I must edu-
cate this woman, for she has a soul or
she would not take such an interest in
me ; and if she has a soul it must be
capable of development and it is my
manifest duty to develop it; besides, if
she remains on her present low level of
intelligence she will probably start biting
me again.
So Lomaring said, “Ligat Liau”—that
was the name he had given her —“Ligat
Liau, you did not understand my poem
because you do not know how to look
at things. When you see a durian hang-
ing in a tree you say, ah, that will be
good to eat, and you tear it from the
branch and devour it. But if you re-
garded it, not merely as something good
to eat, but as something good in itself,
you would think more highly of it. You
might even go hungry, preferring the
delights of the mind to the baser
pleasures of the palate.”
“Rubbish,” said Ligat Liau. “A durian
is a durian, and that is all there is about
it ”
“No, wife,” said Lomaring. “A durian
is not only a durian. To a poet it is an
emotional experience. An emotional ex-
perience is the beginnings of a poem. A
poem is better than a full stomach.”
Next morning when Ligat Liau woke
up she was unusually thoughtful and for-
got to answer Lomaring at breakfast.
Then she climbed down to the ground
and went off into the jungle, without say-
ing good-bye to Lomaring. In the even-
ing she returned empty-handed.
“You could find no durians to-day?"
remarked Lomaring.
“I found plenty,” said Ligat Liau.
“They hung like policemen’s batons in
the trees, ready to fall on the heads of
the disturbers of the peace of the trees
they guarded. They looked noble and
grand in their simple integrity. I was
frightened and at the same time fas-
cinated at the sight of them, so that I
wept uncontrollably.”
“But you might have picked one of
them at least,” cried Lomaring. “That
would not have mattered! Now we shall
be hungry.”
“A durian,” said Ligat Liau, “is not
only a durian. It is an emotional ex-
perience. An emotional experience is the
beginnings of a poem, and a poem is
better than a full stomach.”
“You are right, of course,” said
Lomaring, “quite right; and, after all,
there is a little cold rice left over from
yesterday.”
But Lomaring found the cold rice un-
satisfying, and hunger sharpened his wits,
and he thought, this woman is certainly
developing far faster than I could ever
have dared to hope, but, after all, she
is only a child ; one must admire her en-
thusiasm but one must not let it run
away with her. Poetry is a good thing,
the greatest good there is ; but even the
poet must live on the sordid plane of
existence before he can release his higher
nature. I must vary my subject matter a
trifle. For a long time he remained
thoughtful, then suddenly he burst into
song.
Ra, re, a, fe, la!
Music!
Booming softly, tremulously ringing.
Is it the vibration of the moon-enchanted wind?
Even the water listens.
Is it the moon and the wind
Striking that prahu to harmony,
Prahu from the Island of Pirates,
Substance and shadow indistinguishably
mingled?
Wind whimpering through the stays with a
note of gathering tempest;
Moon’s rays tinkling clearly where the water
laps against the windward side catching its
radiance?
Or is it some slave torn from the bosom of his
family
Dreaming in music of his ricefields?
The music wails and sobs and then sinks to a
low note and dies whisperingly over the
water like a breeze
Which faints and fails before it reaches me.
Has the soul of the musician passed with the
music?
“I don’t know what on earth you are
talking about,” said Ligat Liau.
“That,” said Lomaring, “is because
your ears have not been attuned to
sound in its supernatural aspect. To you
sound has only a material significance.
You hear the whistle of the blowpipe-
dart and it says to you, danger! Now,
one night I wandered by the waters
of a bay and I heard the sound of music
and it was an emotional experience. It
has remained with me ever since, the
most precious of my possessions, though
unseen, intangible and certainly not
edible. My poem is the recollection of
that divine emotion.”
Next morning Ligat Liau was more
thoughtful than ever, so thoughtful that
she ate all thal remained of the cold rice
and left nothing for Lomaring. Then she
clambered down the tree and vanished
into the jungle. In the afternoon she re-
turned, and she was barely in sight when
Lomaring observed that she was empty-
handed.
“You could find no durians to-day?”
he remarked.
“I did not go to look for durians,”
replied Ligat Liau.
“Then what in the name of goodness
have you been doing?”
“I went to the ladangs to steal cooked
rice,” said Ligat Liau. “It was noonday.
The people were sheltering in their houses
from the sun. From one of them came
the sound of the playing of a gamelang.”
“Ah, the gamelang,” cried Lomaring.
“Its music is wild, warlike, blood-awaken-
ing. It stirs in one strange and terrible
feelings—turbulent race-memories, battles
with nature, bloody conflicts step by
step up the evolutionary ladder.”
“It made me feel so sick I had to sit
down,” said Ligat Liau.
“Naturally,” said Lomaring. “And
anon it becomes soft, plaintive and sor-
rowful, fetching up in one aesthetic long-
ings, confused and dreamy fancies, un-
easiness, mysterious and unexplainable,
vague remembrance of passion, of
pain”
“It reminded me,” said Ligat Liau, “of
the day my mother gave me an unripe
chilli.”
“Exactly,” said Lomaring, and then, re-
membering that he was feeling hungry, he
added, “and when you got over it did
it not occur to you that while those
people were playing their gamelang they
would not be watching the cooking pots,
which you could probably hear boiling?”
“I did hear them boiling,” said Ligat
Liau, “and they harmonised beautifully
with the music of the gamelang. My
ears were attuned to its supernatural
meaning. Sound has not merely a
material significance. It is an emotional
experience. The recollection of my emo-
tion will remain with me for ever, the
most precious of my possessions, and
some day I will make a poem about it.”
For the rest of the evening Lomaring
remained moodily silent, but being a poet
he could not long remain in that condi-
tion. As the last vestige of light faded
from the western sky he stood up in the
orangutan’s nest, which commanded an
extensive view of the countryside, and,
raising one hand above his head and
placing the other over his heart, cried:
“It is evening”
“There is just enough light left amongst
the clouds,” interrupted Ligat Liau in
a voice tremulous with excitement—
“ There is just enough light left
To make bright mirrors of the ricefields,
And not enough to stay the shadows of night
Which are creeping up the foothills and the road
we see below us,
Which was only recently completed by the
Public Works Department.
The ricefields have been newly flooded
Under the Water Conservancy regulations.
The new rice,
Tender as the down on the young cocoanut,
Has only here and there begun to show above
the surface of the water.
On either side of the road are hundreds of
tiny lakes plotted in every shape—
Diamond, square, hexagon and triangle.
Groves of great waringins and chemaras float-
ing,
Swimming mists which rise
By the process of evaporation from the rice-
fields,
Nothing is defined save those near-by lakes of
light
And the palm-crests like dark stars,
Glimmering ricefields, surging shadow!
The road along which those people are tramping
to their villages—
Is it solid?
Or is it a spectral highway through phantas-
magoria,
Its travellers
Ghosts
Trudging sadly towards eternity?”
This woman, said Lomaring to himself,
is in process of becoming a poet, though
a somewhat derivative one and sometimes
painfully literal. Two poets on the same
treetop seems to me an impossible
arrangement; and he began to think wist-
fully of the pleasant life he used to lead
in his village in the Tempassuk lowlands.
Two days later a male child was born
who 'was human, but covered with long
hair. Lomaring felt no paternal affec-
tion for it, but he was glad to see that the
orangutan, in order to supply the needs
of her offspring, was once more assidu-
ously seeking food, of which he was
able to steal portions in her absence. She
had, however, ceased to be interested in
poetry, and took no more notice of
Lomaring than as if he had never existed.
One day when she was away in the
forest hunting he saw a prahu approach
and put out a boat to fetch wood from
the bank of the river. Hastily stringing
some vines together Lomaring began the
descent, but the rope was not long
enough; however, by letting himself
drop half the distance he succeeded in
getting down with a severe shaking, and
went away in the boat. Not finding him
at home on her return the orangutan
guessed what he had done and tried to
swim to the prahu, but the distance was
too great. She then ascended the lanan-
tree and, in full view of the prahu as
it sailed away, she lifted the child in her
powerful arms, intending to tear it into
two pieces and throw the pieces after
Lomaring ; but the child cried out, and
she remembered it was her child as well
as Lomaring’s, so she contented herself
by breaking great branches from the
tree and hurling them after the prahu.
As the child, whom she called Loma-
ring, grew up he began to be curious
about his father, and she told him that
he was a hairless god who had brought
songs from Heaven, and she recited
snatches of the songs, together with some
she had made herself. The young
Lomaring thought hers were doggerel,
but he did not say so, and he began to
make poems too ; but they filled him
with intense dissatisfaction, though Ligat
Liau said they were better than those of
his father.
One day, while his mother was absent
hunting, Lomaring looked down through
the leaves and observed that the forest
was divided into three storeys. There
was the life of the roof that he knew so
well and which bored him to extinction :
there was the life of the eaves where
birds flew in pursuit of each other like
painted projectiles, and where great fruit
hung like glowing Chinese lanterns;
and there was the life of the floor which
was so dark that he could distinguish
nothing in it; but he could hear strange
sounds rising from it which seemed love-
lier than the sounds with which he was
so familiar. He thought that the lowest
storey must be Heaven and that if he
climbed down to it he would find the
secret that would make his poems greater.
So he clambered down the lanan-tree.
He could hardly see anything at all,
but he made out a track and, following
it, after a long time he came to open
fields with men and women working in
them. Never had he imagined such
beautiful beings. With beating heart
he hastened towards them.
The Harvest.
No stir was there within the cove,
Save for a soft and gentle swell
That through the darkness landward drove
Till something suddenly befell.
Till suddenly around its shores,
All silent else, upon the air
There stole a sound of stealthy oars
That told of life and movement there.
There fishermen, brown-armed and hale —
Hope in their hearts, and eager-eyed—
While yet the last stars lingered pale,
Cast wide their net upon the tide.
Their net they cast, they beached their boat,
And as the dawn-lights, pale and thin,
Called forth the first bird’s matin note
Set hands to draw their harvest in.
Sweet was that first bird’s note, and sweet
The air they breathed by dew made fresh,
As freighted deep, unto their feet
The net came shoreward, line and mesh.
Then as the thin lights grew to pearl,
To pearl and rose without a flaw,
Within the tide —a flash, a swirl
Of silver fin and tail they saw.
Rich was the harvest that they reaped,
For at their feet, at rise of sun,
Agleam upon the beach lay heaped
Full recompense for work well done.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Tommy Townshend.
The casement of my writing-room
O’erhangs the harbor tide;
I sit and watch through tailing gloom
The lights of Sydneyside;
I see electric signs that flare
Insistent round the Quay,
And somehow from an Otherwhere
A quaint thought comes to me.
Here Phillip, with his lean marines
And scowling bond-folk, strove
To keep the flag, by any means,
Afloat at Sydney Cove;
And, be these exiles what they might,
Foundation firm they laid
For Empire o’er a province dight
“The finest ever made.”
While Burke and Pitt and Sydney’s great,
Shortsighted friends and peers
Were busied with affairs of State
In those o’erclouded years,
Went Tommy Townshend here and there,
With snuff-box, wig and sword,
By Phillip’s anxious pleading pray’r
At times uncommon bored.
Nor might his lordship realise
The lack of “mending thread,”
Or woeful want of such supplies
As mundane beef and bread;
For Tommy’d other fish to hook
And fry in far Whitehall,
With mickle time to more than look
At Phillip’s wants withal.
So Tommy Townshend, dapper, dull,
A party hack at most,
Proved neither wise nor bountiful
Unto that motley host;
And many starved, and some were swung
For stealing scanty stores,
When Famine like a dark cloud hung
O’er fafr Port Jackson shores.
Now, Tommy Townshend, if your shade
Might from my window gaze
At all these crowded lights displayed
Along the harbor ways,
Your soul would learn how statesmen err,
And, by your peruke curled,
You’d vow your lordly pride of her,
Your name town, ’fore the world.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


CORN PAIN
STOPS INSTANTLY
• Remove
painful corns
with Blue-Jay,
the scientific corn
remover. Invented by a fa-
mous chemist and used by
millions for over 35 years.
m
• Blue-Jay is applied quick-
ly—pain stops at once. Corn
is gone in three days.
• Don’t take chances with
harsh methods—or with
cutting. Play safe . . . use
Blue-Jay.
How it works: A is the B&B
medication that gently under-
mines the corn. B is the felt pad
that relieves the pressure, stops
pain at once. C is the
adhesive strip that holds
©
At all
chemists
the pad in
place, pre-
vents slip-
ping.
Special sizes for bunions
and calluses
BLUE-JAY
śdf
PHENOMENAL SALES
Prove
Tremendous Acceptance
These are the days for hard facts. You
buy carefully ... you weigh values ... yet
today, when values are watched as never
before, Leggetts Dynamic Spark Plugs are
enjoying Phenomenal Sales.
The reason for this tremendous accept-
ance lies in the plugs themselves. The
exclusive “hotter spark” principle of
Leggetts Dynamic Spark Plugs improves
engine efficiency, by more perfect fuel
combustion—resulting in easier starting—
sweeter running—moro miles per gallon—
dynamic power.
Fit a set of “Leg-
getts” today,
for downright
motoring economy.
33/9-5
A POWER
Popularly Priced at All Garages
Dij ri antic
SPAKK
.PLUGS
,j.y
• C.L.W., of Brighton, has had
these shoes—a pair of heavy tan
Oxfords — for some four years.
They have had regular use and
regular cleaning with KIWI.
• They’re well worn but they’ve
• worn well . . . thanks to Kiwi
KIWI
The Quality Boot Polish
I
l
H736M
BLACK
POLISH
POLISH
THE MOUNTAINS
and FORESTS ARC
CALLING YOU !
Come! Leave the heat of summer behind you.
Three days from Sydney and you are in won-
derful Maoriland—home of high mountains and
immemorial forests. Come where the air is like
champagne and care is a stranger. Laze by the
shore of beautiful lakes, or be soothed to deep
sleep each night with the song of rushing
streams and waterfalls. Go North to where the
giant game fish leaps in high ecstasy or bathe in
the warm and health-giving waters of geyserland.
Balmy days give place to nights of stars. Down there in
the moonlight a stag is browsing in a forest clearing;
giant rainbow trout leap in quiet pools. The aromatic
smoke of a wood fire mingles with the fragrance of your
goodnight pipe.
%
ii
I
fe ' V
U /
NEW
ZEALAND
N.Z. Govt. Tourist Bureau,
Box 365 F, Corner Martin Place
and Pitt Street, Sydney, and
Box 2136, Collins House, 360
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Please send me illustrated
leaflets and full details of a
holiday in New Zealand.
Name .
Address
B
SCENIC PLAYGROUND OP THE PACIFIC
Why Cantrell Laughed.
BY G. MUNRO TURNBULL.
IT was the hour when the song of the
trade wind takes on a lazy lilt; when
the bleak Port Moresby hills turn
slowly rose-red and sea and sky become
a welter of opal and pearl and gold ;
when an indolent contentment steals into
the bones of men. sending them into
long chairs with tall glasses and syphons
and cubes of ice near by.
To-day, however* there was a certain
constraint in the atmosphere On the bal-
cony of the International.
Mr. Brownlow was in one of his
expansive moods. He was being con-
descending and instructive and amiable
in a deep, resonant voice, and the de-
ference reflected in the faces of his audi-
tors suggested to him that they were
properly impressed. For Mr. Amos
Brownlow was of the magnate class, one
of the Exalted Ones, a very great per-
sonage indeed.
“Good work, Parsons!” he boomed,
“that last job of yours. A little more
dash, a thought less —what shall I call
it? —caution, and I would venture to say
brilliant work, my boy—brilliant!”
Mr. Patrol-officer Parsons had but
lately returned from a sticky exploratory
patrol to the headwaters of the Turama.
He was lucky to be alive, and knew it.
“Jolly good of you to say so, sir,” he
replied politely, thinking “God keep me
from pushing his fat face in! ”
A curious expression flitted over the
thin, rather worn features of Cantrell,
the District Magistrate. He turned to
Langdon, the anthropologist, and winked
with some solemnity. Behind the scien-
tist’s glasses a pair of shrewd blue eyes
twinkled.
“I agree with you entirely,” he mur-
mured ; “but it is advisable, for you, to
keep sweet with the little brute —so don’t
say 'it.”
At that moment there sounded from
without the measured beat of bare feet in
marching rhythm ; the jingle of accoutre-
ments ; a voice, a brassy voice with an
unmistakable barrack-square rasp to it.
“Lef! Lef’!.... Lef’, ri’! Lef’, ri’!
Lef!”
A detachment of native police swung
into view with packs up and chins up
and rifles at the slope. Their bare legs
were white with dust, sweat was caked
hard on their jumpers, but each face was
an impassive brown mask, each stocky
figure proclaimed a conscious pride.
Mr. Brownlow’s flabby features settled
themselves into an expression of faint
disgust.
“The Armed Constabulary!” There
was a note of jocular sarcasm in his
voice. “Showing off —as usual.” He
beamed upon the company. “One hears
unbelievable yarns of their fortitude and
endurance. Papuan natives are not like
that, gentlemen. We know. How easily
they pick up parade-ground tricks! How
naturally they strut about with true nig-
ger swank in a gaudy uniform and a rifle
to play with! But, beneath it all, no
real discipline, no pride of service, no
sense of responsibility—no gutsl ”
It was then that Cantrell laughed—a
short, harsh bark of a laugh that was
without mirth. He lifted his glass, swal-
lowed the contents at a gulp and banged
it on the table. Then he straightened his
long length and barged through the
swing-doors without ever a nod or word
of farewell.
In the shocked silence which followed
Mr. Brownlow found his voice.
“If there is a joke,” he demanded, his
voice queerly deflated, “I should like to
be let in on it. I am, perhaps, a little
dense.”
He tried to put restraint upon his
rapidly rising indignation, tried to rally
himself and failed. “That fellow Can-
trell!” he stuttered. “Damn his im-
pudence! Why did he laugh?”
Langdon supplied the answer. Slowly
and deliberately he said, “Cantrell was
laughing at you, you poor prawn!”
Patrol-officer Cantrell, white-faced,
emaciated, rotten with fever, pitied him-
self morosely. He was aware of Corporal
Madiri standing rigidly at attention at
the foot of the lounge, aware of the
man’s eyes studying him furtively, and
he wondered what was going on in that
shrewd native brain. Two things were
burned into his own consciousness: the
importance of time and the need of im-
mediate action —provided he decided to
take any effective action at all.
Who would blame him if he, a sick
man, elected to sit tight? Not Masterson,
the Resident Magistrate of the division,
now three days’ march down the coast
, with three-fourths of the detachment.
Masterson demanded the best of a fel-
low’s brain and body ; if there was an
ounce of surplus energy, Masterson re-
quisitioned it. But Masterson would not
expect a sick subordinate and three
native policemen to work miracles. By
every canon of prudence and common-
sense he was justified in merely transmit-
ting news of the raid to Masterson by a
swift runner, conserving his strength
until a properly armed and equipped
patrol
He wished the corporal would not
stare at him so! He would prepare for
Masterson’s guidance a precise summary
of the tidings brought in by the Boina
refugee who, by God knew what hero-
ism, had battled through those perilous
miles to warn the Government that
Kabagu and his killers were on the
rampage —burning, ravishing, destroying.
Always the pitiless jungle and its con-
stant threat! Always the sinister thrum-
ming of war-drums, the wail of bull-
roarers, the twang of bowstrings and
the clash of spears! Damn New Guinea!
He was still kitten-weak from a dose
of fever that had twisted the gizzard out
of him. To hell with the exigencies of
the service! Blast the King’s writ!
“All right, Corporal,” he said aloud
in Motuan. “Round up ten strong vil-
lage men for carriers. Warn Constables
Arari and Domu to stand by and pre-
pare packs. We leave at daylight.”
There was a momentary relaxation of
tautened muscles, the shadow of a grin
on a brown face. Then Corporal Madiri
stiffened, saluted and, performing a smart
right-about, marched off.
Cantrell knew then what had been
going on in Madiri’s mind.
For Cantrell and his skeleton patrol
there followed days of struggling through
foetid ooze that reached almost to their
waists, clothing drenched with rain and
sweat, battling through heat that weighed
like a sweltering blanket. Their faces
were sticky with the heavy spider-webs
that laced the track ; swarms of stinging
ants, scrub ticks, voracious leeches
joined forces with clouds of mosquitoes
in an unrelenting onslaught. There were
days when the sun smote them like a
furnace blast; nights chill with wind
from the higher altitudes.
Corporal Madiri and his two offsiders
—alert, watchful, dependable—herded the
half-mutinous carriers. Cantrell took the
lead.
The slanting rays of the sun were
golden with approaching twilight when
they came within striking distance of
Kabagu’s village. There was a chance,
a remote chance, that their approach had
been unobserved ; that Kabagu and his
young men, gorged with food and drunk
with betel-nut, might be taken by
surprise.
Cantrell’s eyes strayed to the police
and a chill wind from nowhere crawled
along his spine. Four men against two
hundred! Many men had died in New
Guinea with their boots on. His would
be but one more name added to the list
unless the gods were very kind.
The jungle was hushed now. Night fell
like the onrushing of a black cloud. Can-
trell felt suddenly tired, worn, dreading
the ordeal that lay ahead.
“If you’re ready, Corporal,” he said,
“we’ll go to it.”
The carriers were left whimpering
under the spread of a great bendora tree.
They would probably bolt; but did that
matter?
Swiftly and silently Cantrell strode
along a track that would have been in-
visible to eyes less keen. The police
padded softly behind him. A low, eerie
moan, a swelling roll of drums, came to
them from the jungle ahead ; the faint
reflection of a smouldering fire filtered
through the trees.
There was no heating glow, no fierce
thrill of adventure firing Cantrell’s soul.
Only a sense of horrible discomfort, a
sensation that was definitely fear.
The drums sounded louder, sounded
nearer, the darkness of the jungle a little
blacker as the village huts loomed ahead.
Every nerve taut as a fiddlestring, Can-
trell crept, step by step, to the outer huts.
The dancing square was crowded with
armed and painted men, all with faces
turned expectantly to the long-house.
Here and there Cantrell discerned new
headdresses of bird-of-paradise plumes
—the badge of the spear new blooded,
the outward and visible sign of youth
become man —and these Cantrell marked
well. The thrumming of the drums
ceased, the moaning voices of the singers
were hushed.
{Continued on next page.)


A'
m
•-'
TOM
54%
I
-J:
It®
SOUTH SEA
HOLIDAYS
What a difference between
just an ordinary holiday and a
cruise to the Solomon Islands.
Four and a half weeks of novel
and amusing incidents and the
delights of a sea voyage under
the best conditions. Numerous
ports —corai lagoons—colourful
native life wonderful scenes.
There are no hotel expenses on
the trip and the fares from
Australia are free of exchange.
Next Sailing from Sydney, 16th Dec.
At your request vie shall
be pleased to forward
illustrated folder No. 22
Bums.PKilp
ir CO, LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY . . .
TELEPHONE 87901
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE BANK offers customers very complete facilities for the transaction of Aus-
tralasian or Overseas Banking Business. It issues Travellers’ Letters of Credit
available in any banking town in the world—the safest way of taking money on a
journey. It establishes Commercial Credits by mail or by cable. It negotiates
and collects Bills of Exchange. It issues Drafts and makes Transfers by mail or
telegraph. It transacts all classes of General Banking and Exchange Business.
The Manager of any Branch will gladly explain these facilities and place at
customers’ disposal the information on current trading and financial conditions
which the Bank is constantly collecting.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL—£12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
LONDON OFFICE: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
London Bankers: The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.;
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.; National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout Queensland, New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia; and at Canberra, Federal Territory.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Interest allowed at current rates on FIXED DEPOSITS for small
or large sums. Interest may be drawn half-yearly if desired.
Cable Address: “THERMOSTAT,” Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide and London.
100% PENNSYLVANIA
Motor Oil at its best
3
»
M o”'
i
*4!
UERE is your first opportunity to
1 buy 100% Pennsylvania from a great
oil company of international reputation
. . . 100% Pennsylvania from the famous
Bradford fields . . . universally known
as the source of the richest, oiliest, and
toughest of all Pennsylvania crudes.
Pennsylvania VEEDOL is made by the
world’s largest refiner and marketer of
Pennsylvania crudes. Pennsylvania
VEEDOL is heat-proof and cold-proof
. . . Made so by a new and secret refin-
ing process with ultra-modern equipment
costing millions of dollars.
No motor oil in all the world can com-
pare with Pennsylvania VEEDOL in
extra mileage... in extra economy...
in extra motor protection ... Yet 100%
Po nnsv|"'ania VEEDOL costs no more
than ordinary oils.
A LWAYS
ASK FOR
EDOL
MOTOR OIL
100% PENNSYLVANIA.
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY LTD.—ALL STATES.
Distributors for .. . TIDE WATER OIL COMPANY.
On the long-house platform appeared
a massively built man in the full panoply
of war.
Corporal Madiri clicked his teeth.
“Kabagu, Taubada! ” he muttered
hoarsely.
“Correct,” Cantrell replied. “Let’s
grab him.”
He coughed suddenly, loudly, stood up
and strolled forward, thumbing the
safety-catch of his pistol.
“I want you, Kabagu,” he said softly.
He waved his pistol towards such of
the “decorated” men as were recognis-
able in the crowd. “And you,” he added,
indicating them one by one. “And you—
and you”
A growl of rage rumbled in Kabagu’s
throat. Without warning he seized a
s;;car and leapt.
Cantrell’s pistol whipped up, but
Kabagu’s catapulting body struck him
with the force of a battering-ram, and
he was dashed violently to the ground.
The screeching voices of Kabagu’s
warriors leaped into life. A bedlam of
screams and yells mingled with the
staccato reports of Lee-Enfield rifles.
Two powerful arms held Cantrell in
a clutch like that of iron. He battered
with futile fists at the naked body that
hugged him, rolling desperately in an
attempt to get clear. His knee came up
and caught Kabagu in the stomach, and
the native howled with pain. Then,
exerting the last ounce of what strength
was left, Cantrell rolled on top of his
adversary and broke free.
For a second he swayed on his feet,
breathing like a cranky machine.
“Look out, Taubada!” a voice yelled.
As Cantrell ducked he heard the swish
of a swinging club. A fierce stab of
pain shot through his right leg and he
fell forward and lay prone.
Soft pad-pad of bare feet, faint tinkle
of bare metal against metal; a taint of
decay in the humid air, commingled with
the drugging perfume of exotic flowers
opening to the dawn ; raw reek of sweat-
ing bodies, and pain—intense, excruciat-
ing, intolerable pain. Years passed—
centuries, aeons —but always that stabbing
pain was with him, bedewing his brow
with sweat.
Cantrell jerked his eyes open. The
jungle walls seemed to be closing in on
him and receding ; he was swinging back
and forth as though he lay in a hammock
on a storm-tossed ship.
“Put me down, Corporal! ” he croaked,
a sudden light flooding the stupor in his
brain. “I can walk now.”
“He all right, Taubada,” Madiri
gasped, pausing to take a firmer grip on
Cantrell’s body.
“Put me down, man! I won’t be
carried.”
Obediently, Corporal Madiri called a
halt and eased Cantrell to the ground.
Cantrell started and rubbed his eyes.
Kabagu stood facing him, sheepish, sick
with shame, Kabagu and six of his young
men, shorn of their feathers, manacled
to the marching chain. Constable Arari
mounted guard, a bloodstained bandage
round his head, his jumper in ribbons.
“Where’s—where’s Domu?” Cantrell
asked. “Not —not”
“He go look-out Mis’ Masterson,
Taubada,” Madiri hastened to explain.
“Two hour away Mis’ Masterson stop.
Close-up he come quick time, sah.”
Cantrell essayed to rise. Sweat oozed
from the pores of his body, his head
whirled dizzily ; it was as though some-
one were driving red-hot pins into him.
“Leg b’long you broke, sah,” Madiri
told him. “Tha’s why we bin carry you,
sah.”
Something was jerking in Cantrell’s
throat, making him swallow convulsively.
He had pulled it off! He had worked
the miracle! He had? He? A glow
spread through his veins, warming all
his blood.
“Thank you, Corporal,” he said softly.
“Soon I will call you Sergeant.”
No wonder Cantrell laughed.
Foreman of the Road Gang'.
BY JEAN BOSWELL.
TIM O’CONNOR straightened his
long, gaunt frame and stood at ease,
one bony brown hand gripping
lightly the handle of his shovel, the other
fumbling among his several pockets for
the brilliant handkerchief with which, at
intervals, he wiped his wet face.
Getting damp, that handkerchief was,
and it might have been damper had not
Tim generally been too preoccupied with
his work to notice the sweat till it ran
down his face in little rivers and dripped
from his long black moustache to sting
saltily his dry lips.
This was the sort of day to bring the
sweat out of a man all right! A grand
day for road-making, though—a grand
day! Just moist enough for the picks
to cut through the clay as a knife through
new cheese, yet not enough to make
the mullock stick unduly to the shovels.
A fine day for sure! Not that the day
made much difference to him. Any kind
of weather was road-making weather for
Tim.
He stooped and picked up a small
lump of clay, handling it lovingly, mould-
ing it caressingly between gentle fingers
and palm. He had always loved roads,
had Tim O’Connor. Inherited it, may-
be, for hadn’t his father been a road-
maker before him, and he for ever tell-
ing proudly of the grand highways he’d
helped to build —aye! and superintended
the building of them, too —in the old
land.
Roads! They were in Tim’s blood!
Glistening white roads, dazzling the eyes
as they twisted like wavering silver rib-
bons over the sandy fern-hills; soft,
brown roads, snaking sinuously round
the mountains and slipping unobtrusively
down the valleys ; bright red-clay roads,
gashing the rich forest lands like gaping
wounds —nay! not wounds ; rather liken
them to great arteries, life-giving streams
carrying the red blood of commerce to
the waiting land.
An artist in road-making, too, was Tim
O’Connor. No slummed effort ever
slipped past his eagle glance ; no worker,
knowing Tim, ever dared put forth any-
thing but his best work. As foreman he
was a great deal more useful than he had
ever been as simply one of the gang. As
an understrapper he did good work ; as
a foreman he saw that the whole gang
did good work, and, wondrously, gained
their respect and affection as well.
He glanced along the line of navvies
appraisingly. Look at them now! Work-
ing like bullocks, every man Jack of ’em!
And not only under his eye, either.
Round the bend they would be slogging
in, too. And why? Because he had in-
spired them with his own principle of
thoroughness, of his own passion for a
“good job well jobbed.”
He hadn’t always been foreman, of
course. Promotion had been tardy ; and
it had been all Lanigan’s fault. Lanigan
had hated him —had been jealous of his
power and influence over the men, of
his knowledge and technical skill. God!
what a brute the man was! Tim didn’t
like to think of Lanigan. It made him
feel queer even yet. It always seemed
to bring that horrible sort of red mist
and that trembling fury that used to rend
him in the old days. It was all in the
past now, of course, but that was the
worst of such experiences as that; a
man never really forgot them ; they
came back shuddering half-memo-
ries.
There had been times, in those old
days, when he had felt actually afraid—
not of Lanigan, but of the hatred that
Lanigan’s persecution engendered in him.
He had to fight hard, often, for self-
control ; he knew Lanigan’s objective was
to goad him into open defiance and in-
subordination, and once he let himself
go he would be a marked man. But it
was hard work. A good thing it ended
when it did, for he couldn’t have stood
it much longer. He had even begun to
dream of Lanigan at night, and always
the dreams were of blood, and he would
wake up in a cold sweat of fear and
horror. Time it stopped, when dreams
got to that stage.
Where was Lanigan now? Making
some other poor devils’ lives miserable,
most likely. What a fiend the man was!
People wouldn’t have believed, if he’d
told them But it was all past, thank
Heaven! No need for him to worry
any more, anyway. There! the red mist
was gone.... He was foreman now,
anyway, and of a flaming good gang at
that. A grand day it was, too. Good
road weather—the mullock not too
daggy. A bit warm perhaps....
He looked along the line again. Work-
ing well, they were. Better go and give
them the once-over, though. They knew
how to handle pick and shovel all right,
but who, save Tim O’Connor himself’
knew the soul of a road? The engineer
would be along any minute now. New
man, so he’d heard. Tim hoped he’d
('Continued on next page.)


TO
COMBINING Speed and Comfort with Economy, the
vessels of the P. & O. Branch Service afford
passengers a wide range of excellent accommodation,
swimming baths, cinemas, attractive menus, ample deck
space and facilities for sport, at extremely economical
rates.
S.S. BENDIGO
SAILS DEC.'2O.
S.S. BARADINE
SAILS JAN. 16.
Fares from
£38
Subject to
Exchange
S.S. BALLARAT
SAILS FEB. 13.
S.S. BARRABOOL
SAILS MARCH 14.
dfg
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for die original.
be a man with understanding. Not like
old Fosdick, to whom a road was only a
job to be passed or condemned, as the
case might be—a mere means of Fos-
dick’s bread-and-butter, and nothing else.
Tim’s abiding hope was some day to
meet a sympathetic soul, a kindred spirit,
to whom he might perhaps confide his
deep thoughts of the good earth and his
love for goodly roads
“Better grade that face a bit, hadn’t
you, Rosser? Too much of a brow on
it, don’t you reckon?”
The man grinned at him, a quizzical
grin, but he raised his pick shoulder-high
and tackled the “brow,” and Tim passed
v,n.
“Getting on with that culvert, eh, Low-
rey? Watch that timbering, though.
Better square your water-table a bit
there, Vail. Take it easy, Wattridge! No
need to burst your boiler, you know.”
That was Tim all over. Easy does it,
and the men responded with still more
strenuous endeavor. Knew how to handle
men, did Tim.
“What about smoke-oh, Tim?” A
grizzled veteran challenged the foreman.
“Overdue, you know.”
Tim dropped his lump of clay and
consulted his battered old watch,
« Aye! » he acknowledged; “but I de-
layed it a -purpose, on account of the
engineer coming. Here’s Waldron bring-
ing him now, though, so you can down
tools till he’s off the job.”
He tq ew the whistle, and, like a crowd
G f joyful schoolboys, the men left their
tools and threw themselves in varying
attitudes on the grassy bank. Immedi-
ately rose clouds of aromatic smoke,
which wavered and eddied on the lan-
guid breeze, alternately revealing and
concealing the recumbent forms, while
Tim, with a complete sense of the gravity
of the occasion, went to meet “the
bosses,
“Hullo, Tim! Smoke-oh, eh?” (Wal-
dron was always a friendly soul.) “This
is the engineer, Mr. Cartwright, come to
run the rule over your job. Our fore-
man: ® Connor Mr. Cartwright,
“How d’ye do? Glad to meet you.”
The engineer extended a hand and
gripped Tim’s cordially. “Fine gang of
men you must have here, O’Connor,
This is good work—very good work.
Not much difficulty about passing this
job, I should imagine, eh, Waldron? A
fine job all right.”
He talked rapidly, and walked almost
as rapidly as he talked. He was nervous,
Tim thought. A young man, not long
used to authority, and still considerate of
men’s feelings, perhaps. Well, he must
surely be impressed with the beauty of
this road. Funny he didn’t say any-
thing, apart from the usual comments
on the technical side of the work. A man
with his thoughtful, dreamy eyes surely
couldn’t regard such a lovely thing as a
road merely in terms of grades, of water-
tables, of accurate measurements. He
was perhaps just waiting for an opening.
He needed to be drawn out, maybe.
“A wonderful thing is a road, sir,”
suggested Tim. “Makes you feel sort o’
queer to think how many millions of
human footprints will press this newly
carved way. Why now, this road might
take the print of a baby’s first steps—and
then, when the baby’s an old, old man,
he might still be tramping this same road,
1 like to make a good, smooth road, sir,
when I think of babies and old, old
people. If only old roads could speak,
what tales they could tell, eh, sir?”
The engineer looked at him curiously
—almost a furtive curiosity —as he hur-
ried on.
“Yes! Oh, yes! Quite so,” he said.
“Yes, great things all right. Well, you ve
done a good piece of work here, O Con-
nor. Quite up to standard. No hesita-
tion in passing it—none at all. No altera-
tions to suggest. I —er —think that s
about all, Waldron. Must congratulate
you on this contract. Great gang you
have here —great. Good-bye, O’Connor.
Very good job—very.”
He included the men in a comprehen-
sive, smiling salute, and turned away.
Tim stood for a moment watching the
retreating form. His shoulders drooped.
He was disappointed again. Strange he
couldn’t get anybody to appreciate what
a lovely, sensitive thing a road was. Just
so much displaced soil, pure and simply
a commercial proposition —that’s all it
was to these men. Cartwright was like
the rest —no understanding of real values.
Tim sighed. He looked along towards
his men, and his face brightened.. After
all, he was foreman, and of a jolly good
gang, too. And it was a grand day for
road-making! One of the best days!
A bit warm, perhaps....
He shouldered his shovel and blew a
short blast of his whistle. The men
scrambled up.
The engineer tinkered a bit with his
motor-cycle preparatory to mounting. He
looked up as he heard the whistle, and
saw the instantaneous response of the
navvies.
“He’s a great foreman all right, eh,
Waldron? Gets results out of that bunch,
anyhow. Good idea to put ’em on road-
ing the new estate, wasn’t it?”
“He’s got ’em all right,” assented Wal-
dron carelessly. “He’s a born foreman.
Knows how to handle men, does Tim.”
He smiled a trifle slyly at Cartwright.
“Just a little bit nervous of Tim, weren’t
you?”
The engineer laughed an uncomfort-
able, slightly ashamed admission.
“Oh, well I —l reckon I was.
Strange chap—those queer thoughts of
his And that shovel, you know.
Carried it round with him all the time.
It —it was a shovel, wasn’t it, that he
used to —to”
“To kill Lanigan,” finished Waldron
imperturbably. “Yes, that’s so. Split his
head open, and then threw a fit and
hasn’t remembered anything since. Saved
his neck, that fit did, but, if you ask me,
Lanigan got what was coming to him.
Regular brute he was—led Tim a hound’s
life.”
The engineer stood watching the tall
form swaying rhythmically with the
heave and swing of the laden shovel.
“Poor beggar!” he said pityingly.
“Who? Tim? Lord bless you, don’t
waste your sympathy,” said Waldron
cheerfully. “Half the time he doesn’t
know he’s in a mental hospital, and the
other half he thinks he’s one of the
attendants. And he’s as happy as Larry
in the job he’s wanted all his life. Isn’t
he foreman of the road gang?”
Summer Song.
I sing in the meadows,
I sing
In the hush of the warm, fulvid morn,
And my song is of merry brown brooks,
And the gold of the tall, tasselled corn;
The emerald of poplar and oak,
The jade of an elm’s fairy cloak.
On wide, windy uplands
I run
By orchards of moss-dappled trees,
By hedgerows of hawthorn and gorse,
Where willow-withes stream on the breeze,
And I hear as my feet swiftly pass
The crackle of sun-withered grass.
I dance on the mountains,
My robe,
Fair-fashioned of amethyst mist,
Swirls high in the gambolling breeze,
My lips by cool fern-fronds are kissed:
I tatter my robe on the plain
In a flurry of pale, silver rain.
Deep down in dim valleys
I laugh
To the rush of the scampering rills,
To the spilth of a myriad notes,
High-echoed along the wild hills,
As a clamor when elfin horns blow
By slopes where the broom is aglow.
I dream in the bushland,
My dreams
Are long in the noon’s fervid heat,
When bird-note and bee-song are stilled,
And alone comes a deep, rhythmic beat—
The throb in the quietude apart
Of the earth-mother’s bountiful heart.
N.S.W,
LILLA GORMHUILLE McKAY.


Training
Courses
in
English
and in
Writing
for
Publication
THE WELFORD COURSE
IN ENGLISH.
By E. H. Welford and A. W. B.
Welford, M.A-. (Cantab.). This
course deals adequately with
common errors, with business and
social correspondence, with brevity,
emphasis, vocabulary and the man-
agement of sentences. It corrects
errors both in speech and in writ-
ing. 12 lessons.
THE BERNARD CRONIN
Story Writing Course
(Writing to Win)
Prepared and conducted by Mr.
Bernard Cronin himself. Its foun-
dation is the pupil’s own work, his
or her thought, expression and pre-
sentation. 10 lessons with 3 sup-
plements.
PARAGRAPHS
and ARTICLES
A complete training, including in-
struction not only in the writing of
articles and paragraphs but also in
the selection of subjects and in
methods of treatment for different
kinds of publications.
CRITICISM OF MSS.
A critioal service by Mr. Cronin of
MSS. —Stories, Articles, Novels,
Scenarios. It has helped many
writers.
We shall be glad to send full par-
ticulars of all the training services
described above, but we believe that
your purpose and ours will be best
served if you tell us where your
interest particularly lies. Please
address your inquiry to E. H. Wel-
ford, 398 Flinders Lane, Mel-
bourne, C.l.
PELMANISM— MentaI Training
A Practical Course for
Practical Men and Women
PELMANISM teaches the Science of
Living.
Nature has given you a brain. lhe
education you have received in the ordi-
nary way has given you knowledge ol
various subjects, and the experience yo
have gained in after life has added
that knowledge
But Pelmanism trains your brain ant
shows you how to apply that knowledgt
and experience in the best possible way
The Pelrnan Institute enables you to obtair
scientific mental training at the lowes
possible cost and with the least atnoun
of trouble and exertion.
Practical Psychology
GREAT strides have been made in
recent years in the science of Psy-
chology. The mind —its nature, its actions
its weaknesses, its impulses—is being
studied as never before. The results
of these studies are to be found in Pel-
manism, which is a working course in
Practical Psychology, directed to the needs
of the average man and woman.
The present Pelrnan Course is based on
30 years’ intensive study and practical
experience. The experience embodied in
the Course has been gained as the result
of dealing with the difficulties, failings,
fears, aspirations and ambitions of many
thousands of men. and women belonging
to practically every known Profession,
Trade or form of business —including
the important business (housewives, note!)
of the Home.
Great pains have been taken to keep
the Course as simple as possible, and in
this aim the Institute has been entirely
successful. The Course is what it is in-
tended io be —a practical Course for prac-
tical men and women who, in the majority
of cases, have to earn their own living.
This is explained very clearly in “The
Efficient Mind,” a copy of which will be
sent, free of charge, to every reader who
uses the coupon printed below.
These Defects Conquered
IT is necessary for everyone who wishes
to “get on” in life to keep in mental
training. When your mind is “out of
training,” all sorts of symptoms appear.
Here are a few of them:
to
Forgetfulness
Inability to
Concentrate
Procrastination
Depression
Timidity and
Shyness
Mind-wandering
Brain Fag
Indecision
Lost Confidence
Pessimism
Boredom
Unfounded Fears
And there are many more. These are
not permanent defects, but if neglected
they will become more serious and more
deeply rooted, with very mischievous con-
sequences to your business and social life
and to your prospects and happiness.
They are signs that your brain wants train-
ing and toning up. Pelmanism gives you
this training and this toning up. As a
result of taking the Course, these defects
and weaknesses will disappear. You will
find them “fading out,” and after quite
a short time your mind will recover its
normal strength and natural tone. Thoi
sands have proved this already.
Qualities Developed
PELMANISM not only helps you t
overcome these defects but it de
velops what might be called the Plus (+
qualities of the mind. That is to say,
urengthcns those faculties which are char-
acteristic of the scientifically-trained mini
and which are of the greatest value in al
the affairs of life.
Some of the qualities which Pelmanisn
develops are:
Concentration Organising Power
Observation Driving Force
judgment Presence of Mind
Initiative Resourcefulness
Courage Determination
Reliability Self-control
Strength of Will Salesmanship
Cheerfulness Creative Imagination
Self-confidence A Reliable Memory
It is the possession of these qualities
that gives to any man or woman what
is known as Personality, and you can
develop them yourself by practising Pel-
manism for a short time every day. You
need not devote a long time to it —say
half an hour every evening for the next
three months. You will find at the end
of that time that you have increased your
mental stature, that you can do better
work, that your brain is clear, that you
can master difficulties which formerly
baffled you—and master them with ease —
that you are more efficient, that you have
qualified yourself for better things, that
you are much happier in yourself and
that you will be living a fuller, more
interesting, more eventful and more creative
life. And, as so many people have found,
this improvement will be reflected in in-
creased income-earning power.
Pelmanism is a sure way to success if
you will give it your loyal effort, your
honest endeavor, and a regular and definite
amount of time until you have completed
the Course. A sustained effort over a
period of but a few weeks will yield you
dividends that will last you your whole
life through.
The Key to the Magic Door
PELMANISM,” says Dame Sybil
Thorndike, ‘‘gives mind-exercise
scientifically, and because its principles
are scientifically based it not only im-
proves, but actu-
all y discovers,
qualities that
would otherwise
have remained
dormant. We all
wish for Success,
to be uplifted
from the medi-
ocre, but many
never find the key
to open the magic
door. Pelmanism,
I am convinced,
is the ‘Open
Sesame’ that
Dame Sybil Thorndike
smooths away all difficulties, giving
a mental clarity and alertness that sees
opportunities and uses them rightly.”
Sir Herbert Barker
ANOTHER well-known advocate of
Pelmanism is Sir Herbert Barker,
the eminent specialist in Manipulative
Surgery, who sends the following mes-
sdf
sdf
sdf
sdf
•Sir Herbert Barker.
mental equipment
can be brought to
its very highest possible pitch of effici-
ency and maintained there.
“I know of no other method to com-
pare with it.
“Benefit Beyond Computation”
“I am convinced that benefit beyond
computation can be secured by all —
whether the student be nineteen or ninety
—who will follow the directions given in
the Course.
“It is impossible to speak too highly
of it. Pelmanism might make a new
world.”
Write for this Free Book To-day
IN “The Efficient Mind” you will find
i a full explanation of the Pelman Course
and much interesting information on the
subject of Mental Training. This book
will be sent you free on application to
the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. Write for
it to-day and it will be in your hands by
return of post. All correspondence is
regarded as confidential. We have no
outdoor representatives.
Readers who can call at the Institute will
be welcomed. The Director of Instruction
will talk with them, and no fee will be
charged for his advice.
|rnt £Ff ICIf HT HlNojl*-
FREE
Enquiry
Form
To the Pelman Institute, \
3 Gloucester House*
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free,
a copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
349
ENDEAVOUR PRESS BOOKS
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED IN AUSTRALIA.
PAGEANT, by G. B. Lancaster, 6/6 (4d.) ; THE SOW’S EAR, by Bernard
Cronin, 6/- (3d.); BRING THE MONKEY, by Miles Franklin, 6/- (3d.);
STORIES BY KODAK, 5/- (3d.); "SATURDEE,” by Norman Lindsay,
6/- (3d.); JONAH, by Louis Stone, 6/- (3d.); IN PURSUIT OF
PATRICK, by Vera Dwyer, 6/- (3d.); THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,
by A. B. Paterson, 2/6 (2d.) ; IN THE WAKE OF THE “BOUNTY,” by
Charles Chauvel, 6/- (3d.); THE LORE OF THE LYREBIRD, by Ambrose
Pratt, 5/- (2d.); CONTRACT BRIDGE, by Ena Burrows, 2/- (2d.); A
MESSAGE FROM BAWRA, by Harold Sims, I/- (Id.); WARDENS OF
THE SEAS, by E. J. Brady, 2/- (2d.); NIGHTS ASHORE, by Capt.
Jack Hamilton, 6/- (3d.); AUSTRALIAN BARKERS AND BITERS, by
R. Kaleski, 3/6 (2d.) ; BUSH BABS, by D. H. Souter, 2/- (2d); THE
DEFENCE OF AUSTRALIA, by M. H. Ellis, 1/6 (2d.).
POSTAGE SHOWN IN BRACKETS.
COMING SOON.
NEW AUSTRALIAN STATES (U. R. Ellis) and THE DOUGHMAN
(R. D. Tate).
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “Bulletin” Offices.
. A
Xi
•O'
V
s>
s.^>.
$■
F
\V
«V
&
y$P
% <A°° o\ \
°> *^V
>S>
&
r,^
s<
J 8?
jP
pv
l " cS vj
a*
a*
¥
v°
0°
A)
e
* „e-
-6® C*
>v
ae^V 1 .
V
\\
S 6 ' \1
«£«&*
,#V
,e 'o^ c >t^ 6
C%


śdf
asd
■ mi
M ll| ■■ fT J t
m
m
mmMm
m
m
m
m
m
m
1
Don't say Gin, say
DRY GIN
33. U
The STRENGTH that is
in GILBEY’S is far
greater than the mini*
mum proof strength
allowed by law.
The QUALITY that is
in GILBEY’S makes
it the perfect base
for all cocktails, and
you use less.
The HEALTH that is
in GILBEY’S results
in definite medicinal
action, isolating it
from cheap inferior
gins which cannot com-
pare with that of the
famous house of Gilbey
