

u
man.
/
■lf:
m
L...
WXAr
m rf«
$
s
Sr
/wad fo&t dt
wad Judt ad good'
ad
e
The Bulletin
L $8
Vol. 54.—N0. 2767.
Wednesday, February 22, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office* Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


END for our Library Catalogue, con-
taining full terms and particulars. Sent
to any address, post free, on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 George Street, Sydney.
WnwJo'riS'
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON*
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence Colleae "
100 Russell Street, Melbourne 3
Please send without obligation, your New Free
booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. t a as
My Name
M v Address ...................
5.8.133
JJYSAGHT”
O
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
. . jgn
JiNA
Healthy Youthful Skins
Demand the Best
Cuticura Soap, made of the
purest ingredients, thoroughly
cleanses and protects the skin,
keeping it in good condition;
Cuticura Ointment heals
that unexpected pimple or rash.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co„
Sydney, N. S. W.
“NOSCERE” BOOKSHOP
Proprietor: Frank C. Mardel
Educational, Scientific, Technical,
Legal and Commercial Booksellers
NEW AND SECONDHAND
From a single Book to a complete Library.
A Library in the Home expresses your
own personality.
Special attention paid to Country Orders
99a QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE. M
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
You do not leave it to chance in choosing a
newspaper for your advertising campaigns. You
require evidence of its stability and inquire
fully into its claims for preference before
entrusting it with your sales message.
No discriminate buyer of newspaper space can
afford to overlook
“THE AGE”
when contemplating future allocations for
Victoria.
Make your first preference “THE AGE,” and
you will be convinced that in choosing this
medium to broadcast your sales message
throughout the State your choice has been
fully justified.
“The Age” CIRCULATES in the
homes and offices of 115,000 sub-
scribers daily, and publishes over ONE
MILLION Advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office. 43 Hunter Street.
HERE is the
Evidence!
In a recently-conducted test “THE
DOMINION” overshadowed its com-
petitors in the ratio of
193 to 98
All must admit that this is a most
convincing margin of superiority.
These figures convey a wealth of
meaning to those who keenly study
advertising values and stress the fact
that if you have goods of merit' to sell
tIK Dominion
NEW ZEALAND'S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
can find the market.
HEAD OFFICE:
“The Dominion” Building,
WELLINGTON.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHURST,
32 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
PhoVie: 85241.
We
found
by far the best
advertising medium
to be
The
Brisbane
Courier.
So wrote Mr. M. R. Hornibrook,
Chairman of Directors, Hornibrook
Highway, Ltd., the largest firm of
Public Works Contractors In
Queensland, who advertised lor
capital to construct the Hornibrook
Highway. Letter on request.
“Courier” Representatives:
SYDNEY.— Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt
Street. 85007.
MELBOURNE.—Louis S. Marks,
Argus Bldg. F 3906.
Member Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
lr
have
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,’’ 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information ean
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE - - - . . - 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with bright and chatty
literary features dealing; with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking House
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building, Elizabeth
Street.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Where England Scores
There is at least one lucrative literary
field in which the Americans can’t hold a
candle to the English. It is said that three
English thrillers are sold in the U.S.A. for
every one American, and there is practi-
cally no sale for American thrillers in
England. The popularity of these works is
understandable. Many are extremely well
written, and, though their chief aim is to
puzzle or horrify, they also set out to give
realistic pictures of modern life. Not pic-
tures of erotic and blasphemous frequenters
of Mayfair mansions and Chelsea studios—
sub-normal folk whom ninety-nine novel-
readers out of a hundred have never met—
but of ordinary members of society and
their enemies in the underworld. These are
characters that anyone who knows a few
tradesmen, hotel-keepers, solicitors and so
on, and who has watched policemen on
their beats and criminals being tried, can
imagine with ease. A thriller which sticks
to the accepted formula never shocks any-
body, not even a censor. “In my books,”
said Edgar Wallace, “you will find nothing
but good healthy crime.” Sex questions,
except for a chaste and usually irrelevant
love episode in which the goal of the
parties is a church marriage, are banned;
and swear-words are veiled by decent
’s. Readers like this kind of thing,
as they like familiar, yet insipid, articles
of food such as bread and potatoes. Con-
trary to the gloomy opinion prevalent in
ecclesiastical circles, the worst-sellers are
nearly always books of the type of “Brave
New World.” Pornography rarely makes
a commercial success unless it is one of
curiosity, induced by the protests of the
righteous. English thrillers deal zestfully
with the pleasant art of eating. English
cooking is about the world’s worst, as most
people who have patronised middle-class
London restaurants or English country
hotels will agree, but English writers, from
Chaucer and on through Shakspeare, Field-
ing and Dickens to those of the present
day, have always had a knack of making
English food seem desirable. All English
story-writers make jokes at the expense
of Scotland Yard, but it remains the most
interesting institution of its sort in the
world. A novel with “the Yard” as a
background can be sure of readers every-
where provided the writer knows his sub-
ject. And then there is the Europe-England
novel which the English do much better
than Europeans, since, though English
writers make plenty of mistakes about the
Continent, they know immeasurably more
about it than the rank and file of Conti-
nental know about England.
Culinary
The Mystery of the Golden Angel, by
Francis D. Grierson (Crime Club; 7s. 6d.),<
is a delightful and typically English
thriller. The characters put in nearly as
much time eating as they do sleeping.
One Pettigrew, a London journalist, has
been murdered and the Hon. Richard Fur-
long, who is discovered with a newspaper
magnate, Sir Peter Theale, at the Greville
Club when the story begins, undertakes
to discover the murderer. Richard, like all
aristocrats who go in for crime-detection,
is a sybarite. He lives in Jermyn-street.
Pratt Richard’s impressive man soon had
them settled in front of a jolly fire, with
tumblers filled.
“There are cigars, and cigarettes beside
you,” said Richard; “help yourself.”
That is the note throughout. Nothing must
be discussed or done before the solemn
ritual of adequate and appropriate refresh-
ment has been gone through. The heroine
is Angela Farrell, Sir Peter’s secretary;
“Angel” to the staff because whenever she
ushers someone who has made a mistake
into the Presence “you can bet Sir Peter
has had his tea and muffin and is smoking
his cigar.” Doyle, a crime reporter, is
assigned to Richard as a sort of A.D.C.
After sitting down to a chop at the Press
Club, he goes after Angela, who,., as he knew,
lunched at a snug little restaurant near the
Law Courts.” Later Richard stands Angela
lunch.
“Don’t let’s talk shop now. Here are the
cocktails.”
Angela ate her food with frank enjoyment,
lhe omelette, especially, was excellent, and
Richard had found a Pouilly on the wine-
list. When their waiter had served the
coffee and departed, Richard produced his
cigarette case.
This reluctance to put business before food
is t'Q be found
even in detectives.
Richard asks Ser-
geant Reed to dine,
but
It was not until
the dinner Avas over
and Richard had installed his guest in a com-
fortable chair and provided him with coffee,
brandy and a cigar that he consented to
talk shop.
Angela is rescued from a lonely house.
There is but one way of bringing her back
to normal.
Richard took the Angel to dine in a
quiet restaurant where the food was excel-
lent an<l the service discreet.
The story ends, appropriately, with Dr.
Wang’s general invitation: '‘Will you come
with me to my poor house? There is food
prepared”
The “Yard”
George Dilmot’s The Thousandth Case
(Bles; 7s. 6d.) deals largely with Scotland
Yard, which he knows as well as any man.
The investigators of the golf-course murder
are policemen, and though they no doubt
eat as much as West Enders their activi-
ties as trenchermen aren’t stressed. Sand-
wiches, bread and cheese and beer are the
staple fare of policemen in “Yard” novels.
They are strong on class distinctions.
1 hough they talk slang to one another,
they have an entirely different language
—one of stilted polysyllables—for their
social superiors.
The juniors are careful to “Sir” their
seniors in The Thousandth Case, and all
“Sir” the little doctor whom they suspect
of being implicated in the crime. An
essentially British convention, which does
much to create the desired atmosphere.
They work on mechanical lines.
No possibility could be discarded until it
had been explored to the end. It might be
that not until all Avere finished, not until
every potential murderer but one had been
eliminated from the case, would it be pos-
sible to point to the probable criminal.
Yet they ne\ T er give the impression of being
dull or futile. Behind them is the impres-
sive record of their country’s system of
coping with crime; one under which male-
factors are caught, convicted and punished
with more promptitude and certainty than
under any in the world.
Cosmopolitan
If the villains of international thrillers
aren’t jewel-thieves they are usually skilled
purloiners of celebrated pictures. Practi-
tioners in both lines appear in Antony Mars-
den’s Swooning Venus (Sampson Low;
Robertson and Mullens; 7s. 6d.), an excep-
tionally spirited effort. The master-crook,
an American, sticks at nothing, and is only
prevented from murdering his own daughter
by the young woman’s courage and re-
source. Novels about Scotland Yard tend
to be static; all the important events- occur
within a few miles of the Embankment. In
cosmopolitans the English characters keep
rushing across the Channel, mostly to
France; and the foreigners, who are- nearly
always French, and on the side of the
angels, stay at London hotels and in be-
tween their explosive “parbleus” and “sacres
noms” speak colloquial French, which the
author Translates into picturesque gibberish.
“Mort-Dieu, I have no wish to be em-
beasted in a business like that!” protests
Chretien, the art expert of Paris. The
reader is deceived at every turn. He has
just begun to love and trust one of the
principals when she turns out to be a note-
forger who has done time in America. The
heroine’s father is the chief villain. The
Titian that caused all the trouble wasn’t
stolen after all. Yet such is the cinemato-
graphic speed with which the proceedings
are- rushed through that the extravagant
story seems fairly plausible. There you
have the task that faces e\ r ery writer in
this genre—to make the utterly preposterous
Seem fairly plausible.
RED PAGE.
D. H. Lawrence’s “Letters”
Leaving aside as mere matter of opinion
M. G. Skipper’s definition of art and his
application of it to Lawrence, questions
ought to be asked about the intrinsic worth
° f , , the f® ries ■ rust edited and prefaced by
Aldous Huxley. The “Letters” occupy over
850 pages, frequently with more than one
to a page. Nine-tenths of that space is
occupied by material about as dull as the
following paragraph, which I select entirely
on hazard:—
I want Davies to come out to Germany for a
while if we can manage it. We move to Italy in
about a month’s time. My wife wants to go to
her people in Baden-Baden, then we’re off. I shall
be glad, it rained so much here,
The collection might thus have achieved
significance if it had been reduced to an
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“THE SENIOR STORE.”
‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —The Guide to Commercial Ethics.
Anthony Horderns'
display Special Manchester Values
For over a century the name of Anthony
Horderns’ has been a household word. Truth
in advertising and honest trading has been the
the base on which this wonderful organisation
has grown. People have learned to expect good
quality, keen values, and these the “Senior
Store” will always supply. Country orders
receive special attention.
Ji?
m
H
B*
*
/^s
1
M
'he*
m
Down proof Cambric
Colour icil Dcsiqnsj
Wf ft
m
;
■
%
Jj
£%,
fa
m
HI
.:
S'
Bt
.
Double-bed
FEATHER DOWN
QUILTS
Feather Down Quilts, covered with
Floral Downproof Cambric with one
plain Sateen panel to tone. The colours
are Rose, Blue, Gold and Green in
assorted designs.
Double-bed size, Price, each . . 21/-
Single-bed size, Price, each . . 19/11
f
“HORDURA”
(REGD.)
Sheets and Pillow
IE
SHEETS
PILLOW CASES
Cases
Made specially for Anthony Horderns’ the name “Hordura”
on Sheets and Pillow Cases is your guarantee of quality.
Made for years and years of hard service these sheets will
wash well and give the utmost satisfaction. You will be
pleased you chose “Hordura.”
Plain or Twill Weave Sheets
“Hordura” (Regd.) Sheets. Plain or twill weaves. Five
sizes.
Sizes, ins. ..54x9063 x 90 72 x 100 80 x 100 90 x 108
Prices, pair: 11/3 13/9 16/6 18/6 23/-
Quality Hemstitched Sheets
“Hordura” Hemstitched Sheets. Attractively boxed.
Sizes, ins. ...,, 63 xlOO 72 xlOO 80x108 90x108
Prices, pair .... 17/6 19/6 22/6 25/6
To Country Customers !
Anthony Horderns’ have a very efficient mail order
service ready to help you in your every need. You may
order in completest confidence and save on every trans-
— action, too! Order now.
( Manchester—Ground Floor, Pitt Street. Freight paid to all
seaports in the Commonwealth and railway stations in N.S.W.)
Pillow Cases
“Hordura” Pillow Cases, size
20 x 30 inches..
Prices, each—
Taped. Buttoned. Housewife.
Autumn
Catalogue
Our Autumn Catalogue has just
been released. Send for your copy
now: it is full of new styles and
keen values.
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd
’Phone M 2401
Day and Night.
Sydney
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
The “Uni”
Barrel Sprayer
• Sydney’s value!
• Guaranteed service
'UNI
The “Uni” Barrel Sprayer
is built to the usual
“Uni” high standard of
quality with a guarantee
of lifelong service, fair
wear and tear excepted.
Spare parts can be
obtained from stock.
Only by personal experi-
ence can you adequately
appreciate this wonderful
machine.
Priced at only £9/11/6
Complete, as illustrated,
£9/1116
The “Uni” Improved
Barrel Sprayer (Spra
Motor Model).
Price, Pump only,
£6/7/6
40-gall, casks, 12/6
extra. Fitting pump
to cask, 2/6 extra.
Spray Hose, 1/3 per
ft. extra. 6ft. or Bft.
B a m b o o-covered
Spray Rods, with cut-
off cock, 12/6 extra.
DETACHABLE
li
STRAINEB
(Department— Fourth Floor. Free delivery City
and Suburbs only.)


r n
s j ust one
LEADER
r
■4
m
m
\
\r
*
For the smartest start?
the long paceful run, the brilliant
burst of speed there’s just ONE
leader Union White Flash. Its
extra qualities (no extra cost) make
fast friends. From the Red, White
and Slue Pumps everywhere.
WORLD'S RECORD
The world's one mile record
for horses Is I minute, 32 4-5
secs. It is held conjointly by
Kepplestone (8.10), Hermos
(7.1), and Spionetta (7.5).
The two last-named dead-
heated in establishing this
time at Brighton, Eng. in
August, 1927.
uevea otl
USE ALSO
ATLANTIC MOTOR OIL
PRODUCT OF ATLANTIC UNION OIL COMPANY LTD.
\ON o
(tlTOt


DELICIOUS and POPULAR
If*
&
u
’r'Mil'i'
Delicious and benefi-
cial with coffee, at
afternoon tea or at
supper. Packed in
airtight tins, they are
always ready to please
Manufactured by
William Arnott, Limited,
the Biscuit Specialists of
64 years’ experience.
Made in Australia,
financed by Australians,
and produced by highly-
trained Australian workers.
a
FAMOUS
o
BISCUITS
Ask Your Grocer for Arnott’s
who make the best from the best.
80-page brochure into which all those letters
distinguished from the triteness of the
others either by style or philosophic content
would have comfortably fitted. On care-
ful re-reading even these reveal only two
big issues of thought, the struggle for har-
mony in the inner self (hardly original,
and not in Lawrence’s case achieved) and
his pet idea of supplanting what he con-
sidered the cerebral or “heady” approach
to sex by one purely reflex or automatic.
In no part of the “Letters,” correctly de-
scribed by Huxley as his most autobio-
graphical works, does he ever fully explain
what he means by the second.
Unhappily it is the way of our times to
take seriously if he can write a man who
would be regarded merely as pathological
if he could not. It is true that Lawrence
railed against Australia whilst here. Listen
to what he.thought of us: —
Australia goes from bad to worse in my eyes.
Sydney and the Harbor are quite one of the sights
of the world. But the quality of the life is abso-
lutely too much, or too little, for me. Talk about
crude, raw, and self-satisfied. If every American is
King or Queen I am sure every Australian is a little
Pope all on his own, God’s vicar. “There is nothing
better than me on earth” he seems silently to pro-
claim, not with tongues of angels, or tones of silver
either, and not always silently. I’ve got a bitter
burning nostalgia for Europe, for Sicily, for old
civilisation, and for real, human understanding.
But, nevertheless, he attempted a genuine
“Australian” novel during his few months’
sojourn. I found recently in England that
“Kangaroo” is seriously taken for a true
picture of us. But he tired of every place:
“Better 60 years of Europe than a ’cycle of
Cathay.” Well, I’ve had nearly 50 years of Europe,
so I should rather try a cycle of Cathay. Douglas
sent me his “What About Europe?” A bit rancid
perhaps, and sometimes fatuous, but on the whole
he’s right.
His geographical restlessness was sympto-
matic. Before his death it had almost be-
come a mania. I repudiate the notion that
Lawrence and his kind belong to an order
superior to “gregarious folk,” who actually
constitute nut one class but almost as many
as there are kinds of people. Far from
trying to reconcile his inner harmony with
his human environment, Lawrence became
more and more obsessed with the idea of
“people” collectively as something to be
avoided. The closing letters prove this
beyond doubt. Huxley’s preface is obvi-
ously written to tit the published texts, and
not from de«p personal sympathy. His
work, coupled with the enormous bulk of
insignificant material which follows, height-
ens the feeling that the entire publication
is floating to financial success on factors
other than its inherent merit.
E. C. MULVANY.
And a protest from “Adsum”:—
Why does the tale persist that D. H.
Lawrence wrote “The Boy in the Bush”
(B. 18/l/’33) ? It is unjust to Molly
Skinner, of Darlington (W.A.). The story
was finished when Lawrence sojourned at
this hilly resort for a few days. It was
submitted to him for perusal and advice, and
he suggested a few minor changes and added
a few lines. Strangely, not even the story
of the stallion, about which the prudes were
nasty, was by Lawrence, as many suspected.
Crediting the tale to Lawrence brings no
glamor to him, but it does take away some-
thing. from the. real author.
Tribute
Towards the West
At last, rock-altar’d, I discovered
The sunshine on the mountain crest.
In December, 1929, at the close of a
lecture I had given at the Savoy Theatre,
J. le Gay Brereton mounted the stage and
stood beside me He held out his hand,
which I took in the usual way, but quickly
supplemented with my left; and, for half a
minute, we stood, thoroughly understanding
one another. A wordless communication:
the last of that sort I was to have with
him.
Since that time I have had his letters;
one of them, only a few months ago, asking
me to say something in favor of a fellow-
writer who had applied for the Common-
wealth literary pension. The fellow-writer’s
need for recommendation had its own
recommendation of need; also, there was
the legitimate claim of a brilliant crafts-
man, scantily rewarded. It was characteris-
tic of Le Gay that he should have handed
on to me the chance of putting in a word
for a meritorious claimant; whereby three
people became happy; to wit, the claimant
and myself; then Le Gay, happiest of all
because he had made us happy.
Risking the cry of egotism, I shall record
the fact that he, with Norman Lindsay and
John Lane Mullins, saw value in my first
book, and urged the publication of an
edition de luxe.
Straightway, these (otherwise very much
occupied) men altruistically set themselves
to the task of capturing shekels. “A slow
and weary job,” wrote Le Gay on March 3,
1909 “The persistent hat” “I’d be
truculent and force the book on archbishop
and municipal dustman alike—not, of
course, during business hours.”
Such a spirit... .such generous gusto had
he!
The venture was a success; and, as I
said before, Norman Lindsay, John Lane
Mullins, and Le Gay Brereton sweated that
I might pocket the pelf.
Glorious friends! Always to be remem-
bered; making the minutes of life sweet
and enjoyable.
In another letter, Le Gay asked me to
join him as his assistant at the Fisher
Library; but this I couldn’t do, because, in
the meantime, I had succeeded to Alex.
Sass’s place as cartoonist on Melbourne
“Punch.” I regretted the inopportune
opportunity; missing Le Gay’s daily com-
panionship, and the help I must have
obtained from him in furtherance of my
work. ~ t.-_ .
He taught me, in verse, never to abbrevi-
ate the word “through,” or to cut the final
“e” from “heaven”—allowing the ear to
educate the sound while the spelling re-
mained beautiful. He said, “Don’t rhyme
'palms’ with ‘arms’: Brennan’s enunciation
will show the reason for this.”
He was the mentor I required at the
time; and, now he has gone, I find I require
him still.
During my last visit to Melbourne, I
mentioned Le Gay to Bernard O’Dowd, who
exclaimed earnestly, “It’s wonderful to know
that such a man exists.”
HUGH MCCRAE.
A Satchel of Books
The Girl Guide Book of Knowledge, by
E. M. R. Burgess (Brown, Son and Fergu-
son ; 25.), gives information in simple -lan-
guage on such diverse subjects as birds, fish
and insects, the patron saints of Britain,
the constellations of the zodiac and window-
box gardens. For obvious reasons this Lon-
don publication is of less practical value to
Australian than British guides, but it has
a number of features of Empire-wide in-
terest.
George’s Fair, an old Middleton institu-
tion, was in full swing when Mr. Drum-
mond, a wealthy stranger who had recently
come to live in the neighborhood, was seen
to stagger and collapse. Murder! Who
was the culprit? The question is answered
in Chapter XXII of Miles Burton’s Fate at
the Fair (The Crime Club; 7s. 6d.). In-
spector Arnold, of Scotland Yard, who is
already known and trusted by Mr. Burton’s
readers, handles the affair with characteris-
tic astuteness.
White China, by J. H. C. Sleeman (Alert
Publishing Co.; 7s. 6d.), is a survey of
China’s cultural and other achievements
which concludes with a passionate appeal for
closer social relations between Australians
and Chinese.
I cannot understand any man or nation saying:
“Buy what we have to sell,, and keep out.”
That is the action of a cad. If the Japanese
and Chinese are, in our opinion, beneath us, inferior
things, then let us announce the fa6t, but do not
let us demean ourselves with soliciting trade from
the people we banish from our shores and excom-
municate from our counsels. For God’s sake let
us be decent in our prejudices.
Mr. Sleeman makes some sound points in
his flamboyant and repetitive way, but he
nullifies the effect by being always and over-
obviously a party propagandist.
Charmian, Lady Yihart - (Sampson Low;
Robertson and Mullens; 7s. 6d.) is Jeffery
Farnol’s latest., Charmian is 43, but still
lovely and conscious of it when we first
meet her. Her life is boringly luxurious.
“Oh, Janet, was there ever such a home? And
such shaven lawns! Such soft-footed servants!
Such outrageously orderly perfection indoors and
out!. ... Janet—l could scream !”
So Charmian runs away from her adoring
and adored but somewhat stuffy husband,
and crosses to France, where her 19-year-old
son is making the Grand Tour, and has
many thrilling adventures. Thus she learns
the advantages of the existence she has
relinquished. “Take me back home to the
dear, quiet country things,” she implores her
husband, who has been driven distracted by
her behavior, “to home and —England.” One
of those delightful Farnol romances in which
the very villain is noble.
And a Little Verse
A PILGRIMAGE.
They tell me that Waitara,
By cooling breezes fanned,
Would well repay a visit,
Now summer lights the land. .
They say that radiant roses,
Rich roses, blowing there,
Make sweet the air of noontide,
And sweet the midnight air.
But though upon its roses
The sun his radiance spills,
’Tis not for that I’ll visit
Waitara on the hills.
There trodden ways recalling,
With memory for guide,
I’ll seek the wayside cottage
Where Victor Daley died.
Sweet singer and gay comrade,
There met he death’s eclipse;
Light-hearted as stout-hearted,
A jest upon his lips.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
PANTOUM.
\v e dream of a future world, and yet
There is one thought ever our peace to
mar;
Oh, I fain would know, can the soul forget?
Will the earth-love live where the high
gods are?
There is one thought ever our peace to mar
When there is no veil for the spirit sight:
Will the earth-love live where the high
gods are,
Tranquil and throned in the Infinite?
When there is no veil for the spirit sight,
When the New Day breaks on the wonder-
ing gaze,
Tranquil and throned in the Infinite
Shall we dream one dream of the bygone
days?
When the New Day breaks on the wondering
gaze,
Shall the memory fade like a mirage vain,
Shall we dream one dream of the bygone
days
Of love most perfect, and passionate pain!
Shall the memory fade like a mirage vain?
We dream of a future world, and yet
Of love most perfect, and passionate pain:
Oh I fain would know —can the soul
forget?
N.S.W.
NELLIE A. EVANS.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped. Nam»
and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.: It won’t do yet; but cultivate it a bit
more, and it should R.S.M.S.: Thanks; but the
ground has been covered.... Dai-arli: Please tell us
when The B. wrote approvingly of Canberra. This
paper wanted the capital fixed in some place where
it would attract population. Canberra can never do
that; it can never be more than.a city of officials,
which is the worst possible atmosphere for Parlia-
ment and Ministers to work in... .L.S.: Most of it is
weakly sentimental; but there are a few good lines
—second stanza especially.... Richard McG.: Idea
sound enough; but there is no music or
imagery in it. .. .N.Y.D.: True, prices have
fallen in Australia; (but the question is
whether without the exchange premium they
would not have fallen more. Taking 1927-29
prices as a base (= 100), the December index-
figure in Melbourne was 76.6, whereas the figure in
France was 64.9, in U.S.A. (Oct.) 66.8 and in
Germany 67.9. .. .M.J.S.: Get it out of your head
that poets “sit down and write the thing straight
off.” The idea may come that way; the clothing
of it is a matter of writing and rewriting....
D.'A.S.: Strong in the middle and weak at both ends.
. ...D.G.W.: “Strength” just lacks enough to push
itself in... . J.F.D.: Apparently his ideas are all
right; but he expresses them badly... .T. 11. T.:
But there are several baronets in Australia whose
titles go back further. The Westralian Cockburn-
Campbell’s dates from 1821. The Brouns (of Tam-
worth, N.S.W.) go back to 1686. . . .R. 8.:
I hope it won’t be very long before we realise
That here we have the fairest country ’neath the
southern skies.
And if this treasure we neglect, let trouble in and
strife,
We’ll lose this glorious country and ’twill damn
well serve us right.
Patriotic, if nothing e15e....01d Ted H.: “Titbits”
you call them; “cagmag” would be a. better word.
.... Forget-me-not: But you won’t establish any
title to remembrance with such ragged rhymes....
Red Mills:
Let other covies boast their deeds
In fields of blood and war,
I sing the fame of nature’s name
Where life is red and raw.
Not here you don’t... .E.S.H.: Can’t see a place
for a yarn of that length.... Lauren M.: The theme
was mildewed when Nero was having his first music
lesson.... E.F.: Don’t know where you could find
a market. It would have to be where the form
would be quite overlooked for the sake of the matter.
. ...E.L.P.: Now for the good of your art, try to
say it in 12 lines. .. .Repo: Nothing but words....
R.A.P.: Your first attempt, eh ? Well, try rhyme
next; blank verse is too ambitious a medium
for a beginner.... Swagmari Poet: That’s a long rig-
marole to struggle through before the climax arrives.
. ...J.H.Q.: Tough luck that it was too late for
the competition:—
Land of the kangaroo,
Home of the fleet emu,
Australia,
We love thy murm’ring rills,
Revere thy noble hills;
Thy heavenly beauty thrills—
Australia.
. ...M.8.M.: Dunno quite what it means; but it
brings a picture, anyhow. Sorry to have to turn
it down....D. Dan: Numerous life offices have tried
the plan, but, so far as we know, without success.
... . W.J.R.: They helped. .. .C.H.S.: Passed over
—like the swans.... N.H.: “Brandy sauce often goes
to bald heads.” Perhaps that explains everything.
.. . . J. 5.8.: Could see through the sleepwalking trick.
. ...V.J.: In Australia the police don’t permit
amateur ’tecs to take cases out of their hands...:.
Fairykin: One excellent; the others labored....
C. : “Dashed off.” Yes, we watched it go
R.McL.: Too many of your rhyming words are
misfits. Yet when you take away your rhymes
there’s nothing left J.M.S.: Undistinguished
F.T.C.: ’Busdriver’s yarn reminds us of an old
“London Mercury” tale.,. .R.N.: The shoemaker’s
romance would start an epidemic of weeping in
every old ladies’ home in the land. .. .S.P.: It
didn’t thaw u5....W.5.: Dreary... .W.L.H.: Hardly
interesting enough. ...C.M.M.: Not within coo-ee....
R.S.C.: Started with promise, ended with a thud.
. . . . M.E.L.: Returning the one about the old lady;
the other held for further consideration. .. .A.R.K.:
We read and re-read it and it still remained point-
less. .. .E.M.C.: Right off our beat... .R.L.M.: Not
a meritorious addition to the literature about snakes.
. ...A.E.J.: Sermon on unhappy homes declined, not
because it is a sermon, but because it is a dull one.
. ...D.H.A.: Flapper fodder.... J.E.: Lucky for us
that only a few feel the urge to write down their
dreams. .. .L.N.C.S.: Too long, and the plot is not
new. .. . J.E.G.: You’re right; nothing to get a
swelled head about N.T.N.: You worked hard to
make a story of it —and failed ... .R.G.: Don’t
grieve over “The Lost Parchment”... .A.D.: Badly
constructed J.0.M.C.: Sketchy M.A.M.8.:
Started well, then descended to drivel.... A.Q.:
Shooting trip didn’t hit the bull’s-eye.... 8.C.:
Didn’t like the Dago who hoaxed the drunk into
walking over a cliff... .M.F.C.: Plot has been used
before A.C.J.: Begrudged the time it took us
to read it....M.M.: Wants more meat.... J.W.:
Growing weary of the chivalrous burglar and the
female intruder who also turns out to be a crook.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
G.H.R.: What are they—two overgrown stuffed
dolls discussing spuds?. . .L.G.8.: You have given the
gentleman on the left flooring boards for legs....
D. : Jest won’t do L.S.: You might have let
the lady get rid of her gumboil before drawing her.
.. . .T.E.: You have slipped a little... .T.J.M.: What
fearful-looking molars! H.S.: We disregarded the
slummockv charwoman’s ogles. .. ,S.F.: That style
won’t carry you very far....E.H.: Not swapping a
cheque for that ill-drawn tramp R.C.: It will
not be printed “in next week’s issue,” nor any of
the issues after... .E.K.: It is so dead that it should
be wrapped in a winding sheet instead of tissue
paper H.A.8.: Stiff and crude F.W.; Keep
your eye on the pen... .N.M.S.: It might be pos-
sible to reproduce the pencil sketch, but only over
the dead bodies of half a dozen process engravers
J.C.: If she means what we think she means, it is
a feeble jest R.A.L.: You’re weak on the body
lines... .G.G.: If payment was per blot, you’d earn
a fortune..W.S.: So Isaac is still filling his fire
extinguisher with kerosene... .F.J.F.: S'cratchy....
E. : W r orn-out pun tagged to indifferent drawing.


e
è
S'."*- •!
'■ i ■
m
I U
I I
■
'
gg§
i
V A
' 'V v « #
■
■
ft-:
d?
'/■■'
I
■
.
1
V~,
. ....
■
: I
IE
i
■
J
I
Hi
«
4; : '‘
gpll I!
■
■
a®
*3
'1WIU
and7do/


The Bulletin
Vol. 54.-* —No. 2767.
February 22, 1933.
THE CALL FOR ECONOMY.
Recruiting for the Commonwealth Public Service, which has been suspended in recent years, will probably be resumed at an early date. The Public Service
Commissioner (Mr W. Clemens) said to-day that action on these lines would soon have to be taken as the excess permanent officers in the service Wad now been
almost completely absorbed. The permanent staff now numbers about 27,500, with, about 4500 temporary employees.”
BOSS DWARF: “Hurry up! He can eat all that when he unbuttons his waistcoat.”
TAXPAYER DWARF: “Make him keep it buttoned and put a bit less in his plate.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: 1 Vi-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Sussex Chambers, H Panama
Street, Wellington,
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1/s.; 6 months. 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”: Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for ioz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
COMMUNISM AND THE LAW.
The A.L.P. Conference in Sydney adopted
Socialisation—the name under which Com-
munism or Bolshevism now operates—as
its policy for the next Federal elections.
Mr. Lang had previously urged the party
not at present to go beyond the socialisa-
tion of banking and credit. “Socialise
credit first,” he urged, “and the other things
will follow. If you want to go through a
door you must have a key. Socialisation of
credit is the key.” But the conference was
more forthright than the politician: it could
see no reason why it should camouflage its
objective. It was out after complete sociali-
sation; and it was both honest and cour -
ageous enough to say so.
Whether a body of men can pledge them-
selves to Communism and remain law-
abiding citizens, entitled to the protection
and support of established authority, de-
pends entirely upon what sort of Com-
munism it is. Communism is not neces-
sarily revolutionary. It is possible that it
could be brought into operation by strictly
Constitutional methods. If that were the
Communism which was in view, and those
the methods, then all we could do would
be to argue with those engaged in the
movement. But what are the facts in this
case? The Communist party in Australia
is in close touch and constant communica-
tion with the Internationals, whose head-
quarters are in Russia. There is a steady
stream of pilgrims from Australia to
Moscow. One band has lately returned,
after receiving its instructions from Lozov-
sky on behalf of the R.I.L.U. (Red Inter-
national of Labor Unions). “The dreams
of the British Fabians and other petty
bourgeois socialists that it is possible to
pass over from capitalism to socialism
gradually without shocks and without revo-
lutions are,” he declared, “dreams that
have no foundation beneath them. The
way out is through revolution.” One after
another the pilgrims from Australia gave
in their adherence. “I consider,” said Com-
rade Mullins, of the Vic. branch of the
Australian Railways Union, “that we must
form organisations of revolutionary workers
from below on the basis of the R.1.L.U.”
“When we return to our country,” said
Comrade Anderson, of the Queensland
branch of the Railways Union, “we will
defend and carry out the policy oi the
R.1.L.U.” And Comrade Beatrice Taylor,
of the N.S.W. State school service, gave her
pledge likewise: “When I return home I
will carry out the policy of the R.1.L.U.”
—a revolutionary policy, a policy of
“shocks and revolutions,” as its Russian
spokesman avowed. Lenin;made no bones
about the character of the movement at
whose head he stood. “The Russian Revo-
lution will probably fail,” he said, speaking
at, the Kremlin; “we are too primitive to
realise the socialistic State. But we will
keep the flame of the Revolution alive in
Russia until it breaks in Europe. A
proletarian World Revolution is born.”
Naturally there is no cry for immediate
revolutionary action in Australia; the forces
must first be consolidated. But it would
be absurd to believe that “direct action”
is not contemplated. The very first ques-
tion put to Mr. Lang after he had made
his speech at this Sydney conference was
the unequivocal “Are you prepared to
take direct action?” In other words, “What
sort of a leader are you—one of those 'petty
bourgeois socialists’ of whom Lozovsky
spoke, one of those place-hunting reform-
ists at whom the Australian pilgrims
sneered, or a man who will plan for blood-
shed (and the rule of .'force?;” When
Lang the politician answered “I do not
favor direct action,” another delegate
turned upon him: “You said at a great
meeting at the Sydney Town Hall that
you were prepared to go as far as the
people wanted you to go. Now you say
you do not favor direct action. What, do
you mean?” By a great majority Mr. Lang
and his policy of bringing in Communism
step by step was turned down. Lozovsky,
who told the pilgrims that the idea of
gradually passing from capitalism to social-
ism without shocks and revolutions was a
dream without foundation —Lozovsky of
Moscow led the conference, not Lang of
Auburn.
It is therefore not possible to regard the
movement towards Communism in Aus-
traJia as anything but a revolutionary
movement. Now, this means more than
that this party is prepared to take and
hold power by force. It means that this
party is the declared enemy of democracy.
It has no use for government of the people
by the people. It has a contempt for
majorities: it looks always to “the conscious
minority.” In Russia, as we know, a
“conscious minority” of less than, half-a-
million, by getting control of the army and
by wholesale slaughter of its opponents,
imposed its will upon 150 millions—and still
imposes it. Neither this conference nor
any other will, of course, frankly say these
things. “We have to carry on our work
by underground means,” Comrade Mullins,
of the Victorian Railways Union, told
Lozovsky. So the A.L.P.—in Sydney, at
any rate —has been captured; and, though
it may not itself be a confessed revolu-
tionary body, there is not the faintest
shadow of a doubt that it is being used as
a cloak for revolutionary propaganda and
to prepare for direct action.
“Thank God for the sacred right of
revolution!” John Hancock exclaimed over
30 years ago in the Victorian Assembly.
“And thank God for the sacred right of
hanging!” Duncan Gillies answered. They
were quite right, both of them. But revo-
lution in a democracy, with universal fran-
chise, with majority rule, can have only one
purpose—to do something of which the
majority does not approve. And that is
the position which faces the working men
and women of Australia. The right of revo-
lution is sacred when it is not possible for
the majority to get its way otherwise. In
a democracy revolution is not a right, it is
a crime against the people.
Nevertheless we shall not deny these or
any men the right to risk hanging for
a cause. But they have no right to drag
others who are opposed to them on to the
scaffold, nor to compel others to contribute
to their funds. Still less is the State justi-
fied in making that contribution compulsory.
’This A.L.P. Conference was composed of
men almost wholly representative of labor
unions; and because membership of a union
is practically obligatory in Australia, it
boils down to this, that under present
law no tradesman can earn a living in cer-
tain parts of Australia unless he contributes
to an effort for the overthrow of our
democratic, self-governing institutions. On
the part of those institutions there can be
only one answer to that. A complete
divorce must be effected between trade
unions and political action.
THIS RESTLESS WORLD.
‘•World recovery depends on world sanity, and I
see no immediate sign of it either at home or
abroad.” —Lloyd George,
The world has never been such a comfort-
able and interesting place for so many
people. Those who are lucky enough to be
employed even in humble capacities—and
many who are unemployed, too —enjoy
amenities which were undreamt of by the
rich no more than 60 years ago. The purity
of their food and drink is the concern of
highly-paid experts. Water, gas, electricity,
the telephone and similar services help to
simplify domestic problems for millions,
instead of for a few thousands, as in the not
distant past. The modern toiler takes his
children to clinics if he is sensible, and there
learns, free of charge, how to keep them
healthy. His own health and expectation of
life are continually being improved by the
researches of scientists; the average Euro-
pean worker lives over 15 yeai’s longer than
the average worker did in the days when
smallpox, typhoid and diphtheria were preva-
lent. Every kind of sport and recreation is
brought to his doorstep; his hours of toil are
so short—about eight for men and women
on five days a week, as against 13 or more
for men, women and children on six days
a week in the early stages of the industrial
revolution—that he has plenty of time to
play games. Alternatively, he can get up-
to-the-minute information about the pro-
gress of whatever he is interested in. A
present-day Australian worker is indeed in
a position to live more spaciously on the
intellectual side than a British Cabinet
Minister was in Queen Victoria’s reign
because he can without exertion learn more
about what is happening at home and
abroad. His children, too, are educated by
the State, and encouraged to go on to uni-
versities and enter professions. And when
he gets too old to work his country pen-
sions him.
The unemployed suffered horribly until
comparatively recent times. In spite of the
gifts of food handed out by the monasteries,
and of the charitable activities of private
individuals after the Reformation, out-of-
works were perishing in droves all over
Europe until well on in the last century;
and enlightened members of the individu-
alist school saw nothing wrong in it. No
one need go without the necessaries of life
nowadays, and some unemployed persons
do themselves uncommonly well on the
various dole systems. England is said to
be the paradise of the dole-drawer who
knows the ropes, but Australia probably
comes a close second. A poultry-farmer
wrote to the “S. M. Herald” last week
complaining of an unemployment-tax assess-
ment of £5 4s. on an income of £9B.
One of my neighbors is drawing a pension and
child endowment to the amount of £2 per week.
He is selling fruit, poultry, and ' eggs, and is
exempt from tax. Another neighbor is selling eggs,
poultry and vegetables. ][ e is on the dole, getting
relief work at £3 15s. per week, with rations, lb
is also exempt from tax.
Yet, though conditions have never been so
favorable for the near-poor, poor and work-
less, it is significant that they have never
been so dissatisfied. In Germany Nazis and
Communists are slaughtering one another
almost daily, England has just staged its
record protest march, and, in other coun-
tries, such as Italy, despotisms are in charge.
In Sydney last week the metropolitan Labor
conference resolved by a big majority that
the latest Lang Plan—the one to expropriate
the trading banks—didn’t go far enough,
and demanded the socialisation of every-
thing, “as in Russia.”
Now, why do our people turn thus towards
Russia? Our workers would gain nothing
in a material sense by the Russianisation of
Australia. We have enough evidence about
conditions in the U.S.S.R. to know that the
poor are worse off there than in any white
man’s country. Children and expectant
mothers are looked after, certainly, and the
authorities are concentrating on education,
health and sanitary services, but Russia is
far behind Australia even here. The Rus-
sian worker has no luxuries—no white bread,
no butter, hardly any meat; few amuse-
ments, except 90 per cent, propagandist
films. And, in one respect, he is back in
the age of ruthless individualism: he must
work or starve. Nevertheless, the eyes of
millions are turning towards this arid
tyranny in which art, sentiment, domesticity
and religion—things that, do so much to
color existence for human beings—are dis-
countenanced.
An explanation may be that the Soviet
Government is the only one that even pre-
tends to be able to supply everybody with
work. It isn’t supplying everybody with
work now, and perhaps it never will, bur
the splendid dream is there. “Work,” said
Carlyle in an inspired moment, “is the mis-
sion of man on this planet.” Give a normal
man work and he is joyful. The ordinary
things—going home at night, pottering
about a garden or house, playing with the
children—take on then a peculiar interest and
delight. Rob him of this glamorous back-
ground, make him understand that the de-
privation is liable to be permanent by the
offer of a dole, and you rob him of his
self-respect as well as his peace of mind.
Bitterness remains even if he regains his
job. This phenomenon was understood by
the syndicalist Sorel when he counselled
“Strike upon strike till the capitalist state
is destroyed,” and it explains why the
Soviet Government, imposes the death
penalty on anyone who so much as talks
strike in Russia.
Capitalism is playing into its enemies’
hands so long as it attacks the unemployed
problem chiefly with what the Communists
call palliatives—more and more endowments,
bigger and bigger doles. What it must pro-
vide. if it is not to perish, is more and
more work. Not necessarily the extrava-
gantly-remunerated work of the war and
post-war boom periods, but the kind of
work that implies security of tenure. It is
the only logical answer to socialisation.
THE GRAZIER AND HIS DEBTS.
On this subject, dealt with in various recent
issues, a flood of letters has come in. Those
that follow (they have been severely con-
densed) are representative.
“Phalaris,” an old politician of high
standing, sums up the position of the mort-
gagor from his point of view:—
“Dialectica” (B. 8/2/’33) has incurred a
debt of £lO,OOO on sufficient land to run
1600 sheep. His case is hopeless, and there
is nothing a Government can do honestly
that will save him. It will be all to the
good of the country if lie retires from the
fight, and lets the mortgagee make the best
of the situation. It may suit the owner of
the £lO,OOO to cut the loan, but “Dialectica”
most certainly has no moral claim to that
consideration, or to Government intervention
on his behalf.
The State provided many advantages, in-
cluding cheap land, for primary producers.
Had these advantages been used for the
legitimate purposes of their industry, there
would be less hardship amongst primary
producers to-day. But cheap land and a
host of other concessions were capitalised
and trafficked in on a rising market to the
detriment of the industry. That the loss to
the State was a serious matter is best
known to those who have watched the
absorption of farmers’ home-units to make
up the increased areas. Not unnaturally
many of these traffickers burnt their fingers,
and now they squeal to the Government to
aid them.
A full consideration of the position re-
quires that more than the interest of the
individual must be considered. This depres-
sion spells loss. Governments can transfer
the burden from one set of shoulders to
another, but they cannot remove the burden
altogether. Just at present altogether too
great a share of the burden is being thrown
on to the unemployed. These people are. to
a large extent, victims of Government efforts
to prevent a natural liquidation, which would
put traffickers in real estate off the land
and put real primary producers in their
place. A moratorium to help solvent debtors
over a temporarily difficult phase is a sound
provision, but there is nothing sound about
legislation which keeps “Dialectica” hanging
on. It may seem hard to say these things,
but it is also hard to contemplate the con-
dition of thousands of people whose suffer-
ings are being protracted by an undeserved
solicitude for primary producers who bought
unwisely.
The next is from a lawyer in a S. Aus-
tralian wheat district:—
Most of the proposals for writing-down
farmers’ and graziers’ debts are impractic-
able because they do not take into account
the fact that most of the persons to whom
the farmers owe money owe money to Others.
The writing-down can be done, of course, by
any inflationary measure which devaluates
the Australian pound. But my plan is surely
better :
(1) Regulate the exchange rate on a sliding scale
■so that, whatever the overseas prices are, wheat will
be worth 10s. per bag at outports, and wool 14
pence per pound—both in Australian currency. Owing
to fluctuating comparative prices of these two com-
modities, the rate must be fixed to ensure the lower
of the two its minimum price.
(2) Abolish the charging of interest, as interest,
for a period of, say, seven years. All persons or
institutions who have covenanted to pay a fixed rate
of interest will continue to make their regular
intetest payments, but these payments will be treated'
as a reduction of capital. In the case of debts
not bearing interest a flat rate of, say, 7 per cent,
could be presumed.
This proposal ensures an absolutely equit-
able reduction all round and with the least
possible dislocation of business. The whole
period of seven years would be covered by a
moratorium, the protection of which would
be available only to those debtors who com-
plied with their obligations. The encourage-
ment given to debtors to pay their debts
would be a factor in the success of the
scheme.
Those who hold most of the inflated capital
and their Parliamentary representatives
probably can intimidate our Australian Gov-
ernments into doing nothing really decisive
for the next two years. But if Mr. Lyons
and the State Premiers do not take the
steps necessary to rehabilitate the primary
industries (and the deflation of our watered
capital is the most important), then a
United Labor Party, with the nationalisation
of banking as its principal cry, will secure
80 p.c. of the wheat- and woolgrowers’
votes, and so be assured of a huge majority
in the Reps., and also a majority in the
Senate, enabling the party to carry out its
whole programme of socialisation.
The third is from a grazier on the
Barcoo (Q.): —
If we alone had made a mistake, then it
might be a fair thing to make us pay. But
up to about 1928 graziers could get as much
money as they cared to ask from any of
the financial institutions, and in lending this
money the heads must have felt very sure
that properties would maintain the high
values then placed upon them. I know they
lent £15,000 on a property that was valued
at £25,000, and which to-day might be worth
£BOOO to £lO,OOO if you could find a buyer.
Another man had £lO,OOO and wished to
borrow £5OOO to enable him to purchase a
£15,000 property. He got the loan at 7 p.c.
This happened in 1920. Up to the present
he has paid £4200 in interest. The property
to-day is valued at £7500. Now, realising
that the borrower has no hope of getting
a penny of his principal out of the property
and only about 1 p.c. interest if a sale were
made, and bearing in mind the increased pur-
chasing-power of the £, it would be only
just if the lender were asked to cut his prin-
cipal by 50 p.c. at least. Remember that
when the loan was contracted for, the £B5O
interest was paid with the proceeds of 12
bales of wool; at present it takes 40 bales
to do the same work.
And finally this from one of the taxpay-
ing public:—
If “Dialectica’s” case (B. 8/2/’33) is, as
he asserts, “typical of thousands,” no wonder
Australia is in such a mess ; for —with every
sympathy for the fellow who is having a
bad spin—it hasn’t been bad times that have
put him and his fellow-thousands (and inci-
dentally Australia) into the mess, but bad
business. An analysis of the figures given
is ample proof. In good years he runs
1600 sheep; so if we place his fair average
carrying capacity at 1400 we are erring on
the side of generosity. The value of an
area to run one sheep even at the top ot
the boom in wool and sheep prices could not
have exceeded £6. Probably £5 is nearer the
mark, judging from my own experience. But
allowing £6 per sheep area for 1400 sheep,
the productive value of the land “Dialec-
tica” acquired was at the very outside
£B4OO in the peak-price period. Now, “Dia-
lectica” still owes £lO,OOO on mortgage, and
it is extremely unlikely that he went into
possession on less than a2O p.c. deposit; so
his purchase price was about £12,500, or
£4lOO more than the place was worth as a
producing proposition based on its average
carrying capacity, and “Dialectica” has
always been carrying a dead weight of £4lOO
and the interest on it. If we reduce the
average carrying capacity to what I think is
nearer the correct figure—that is, 1250 —
and the value of a sheep area to £5 10s., a
well-established figure in the 1927-28 boom
period, “Dialectica’s” land was worth £6875,
which implies that he valued it for
purchase at £5725 above the productive
Plimsoll. Now the law never has pretended
to protect buyers from the consequences of
bad bargains—fraud and deliberate or even
innocent misrepresentation are something
different. Ordinary business would soon be
an impossibility if the law ever attempted
it. and we would certainly be in a more
stupid muddle than we are now if a scheme
for writing down mortgages on a grand scale
were ever made the subject of legislative
enactment.
As The Bulletin sees it: —
Three things must be kept in mind: (1)
wool worth £lOO in 1929 was worth only £6l
in December, and wheat that was worth £lOO
was worth only £55; and these and other
changes have been due to a world-wide catas-
trophe, over which the farmers had no con-
trol (2) In December £lOO would buy as
much as £126 would in 1929. (3) Non-rurai
commodities that brought 1 £lOO in 1929
brought £95 in December. So the wheat-
farmer gets £55 to-day for what would have
brought him £lOO in 1929; yet for what he
buys he must pay almost as much as he did
in 1929 —95 p.c. as much. And while he
gets only £55 for what brought him £lOO in
1929 the £lOO which he pays in interest is
worth as much to the man who collects it
as £126 was in 1929. Two conclusions must
be reached from the figures: (I).the farmer,
even if he did not make a particularly bad
bargain, is liable to find it impossible to
inept his liabilities; (2) no injustice will
be done to the creditor if the principal debt
is reduced. This, however, is not to say
that Parliaments should pass a law requir-
in'’' such writing-down, still less the uniform
writing-down that the lawyer-contributor
suggests.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Defence of Australia.
On the analogy of Manchuria, Japan will
accept the White Australia policy only for
so long as she is unable to compel its with-
drawal or modification. What she would
do, if she thought it worth while, would
be something like this. She would inform
the Commonwealth Government that the
exclusion of Japanese citizens was an in-
tolerable offence against international
equity, if not law, just as she informed the
Chinese Government that the exclusion of
Japanese goods was an unfriendly act. If
the Commonwealth Government stood on
its dignity she would send it an ultimatum,
acceptable within 24 hours. The shocked
statesmen at Canberra would reply that
they had referred the matter to the League,
which, as signatory to the Covenant, Aus-
tralia would be bound to do. Japan would
inform the world that this particular dispute
didn’t come under the jurisdiction of the
League. A mob in Darlinghurst would then
murder a Chinaman in mistake for a Jap,
and in reply the Japanese would blow
Sydney to bits.
While this was taking place Australian and
Japanese delegates would be arguing their
respective countries’ cases before the (League.
The League would decide that it didn’t
have enough reliable information to come
to a decision, and would send out a com-
mission of Spaniards, Germans and Greeks
to make a report. Meantime, the Japanese
would have occupied all the most important
points on the Australian coast, as well as
Canberra, while guerilla bands of Aus-
tralians would be making spasmodic raids
with antiquated weapons and insufficient
ammunition wherever an opportunity pre-
sented itself. There would be a comic-
opera- revolution in Sydney, and Jock Gar-
den would be elected President of the Aus-
tralian Republic, which would be granted
immediate recognition by Japan. The
League commission would arrive, and would
travel about under a guard of Japanese
bayonets. It would report to the League
that Japan shouldn’t have done what she
did, and that she ought to go back to the
beginning and start all over again. The
League would convey this advice to Japan,
and Japan would tell the League to go to
Tophet. The League would then refer Tie
matter to a Committee of Nineteen, who
would declare that the solemn obligations
of the League Covenant, the Paris Pact,
the Nine-Power Treaty and the Briand
Declaration must be observed. Japan would
tell the League to go to Sheol. The League
would then refer the matter to a Com-
mittee of Nine, and the Nine would declare
that the sacred obligations of the Ver-
sailles Treaty, the Washington Conference,
the Kellogg Pact and the Lausanne Agree-
ment must be observed. Japan would tell
the League to go to Gehenna.
By this time, Australia having been effec-
tively occupied, except for a small area
round Alice Springs, the affair would cease
to be front-page stuff.
*
The Disruptionists in the West.
“F.J.S.” writes from Westralia: —
The Bulletin has recently published
(1) a cartoon depicting W.A. trying to get
out of Federation and leave her share of
public debts behind her, and (2) an article
“How to Cook a Pig,” showing W.A. as a
disrupter of the Australian nation; and both
are misleading.
In reply to (1) W.A. has not yet pro-
duced a Lang party, and has no intention
of evading her obligations, but wishes to
manage her own affairs so that she can pay
her debts. To do this she must get clear
of burdens placed on her by Federation.
As to (2), the real force that is driving
W.A. out of Federation'is the selfish majo-
rity in the Canberra Parliament that repre-
sents the interests of Melbourne, Sydney
and Brisbane. They totally ignore W.A.
claims for relief, and their high-tariff policy
is putting this State into bankruptcy by
loading costs on primary production that
make it impossible to get a profit. We buy
millions’ worth from the Eastern States, pay-
ing at least 100 per cent, more than we would
if we bought abroad ; yet we are compelled
to go abroad for a market and face a world
competition.
The American colonies were lost to Great
Britain by the wooden-headed policy of the
British Government of the day. Take care
that Canberra is not staging a similar
tragedy now. You are not going to hold
nearly half a million people under the whip
of high taxation and costly government
without endangering the whole fabric of
Federation. You can stop secession in W.A.
at once by allowing her to manage her own
affairs, particularly as regards tariff.
A few words in reply (there are many
more that will yet have to be said): —
It is true that the British Government
lost the American colonies by wooden-
headed policy. It taxed them without giving
them Parliamentary representation. There
are two Houses in the Federal Parliament.
In one Westralia has five members for
423,000 people, an average of one member
for 84,600. N. S. Wales has 28 members
for 2,560,000 people, an average of one
for 91,000. In the other House Westralia
has one member per 70,500 people; N. 8.
Wales one per 427,000 people. In other
words, in the Senate every Westralian has
six votes for every one the N. S. Wales
citizen has. Yet these disruptionists would
mislead the W.A. people by likening their
position to that of the American colonists,
who had no representation at all.
The disruptionists say that they have no
intention of evading their obligations.
Where, then, is their plan for taking over
their proportion of the public debt? On
a per capita basis their little lot of the
Commonwealth debt will be 29 millions.
That money was borrowed on the security oi
the Commonwealth. Do the disruptionists
propose to pay it off? If not, how do they
propose to deal with it? Even if it were
inclined to do it, the Commonwealth could
not say “That proportion of the debt is
yours—take it and look after it.” The
creditor would have a few things to say
about that.
“F.J.S.” says that the West “buys mil-
lions’ worth from the Eastern States, paying
at least 100 per cent, more than it would it
it bought abroad.” But why do it? There
are no 100 per cent, duties on foreign goods
similar to those supplied by the Eastern
States. Why not buy abroad, pay the 20
or 30 per cent, duty and save the difference
between that and the 100 per cent. ? The
fact, of course, is that these disruptionists
are talking nonsense: the State is not suffer-
ing as they allege.
The West has its grievances. But to pic-
ture the Eastern States as unfriendly
harpies, preying upon it, is very unfair. The
West has more friends in the East than it
has within its own borders—friends who
won for it, for instance, the gold bonus, and
did it even against the opposition or un-
friendliness of some of the West’s own mem-
bers of Parliament. They would even very
seriously consider a practicable proposition
for giving Westralia a tariff of its own over
a period of years.
Seceders talk about a reduction of the cost
of government, about cutting out duplica-
tions. . What are they going to do about
defence? They will need an army and a
navy and an air force equal to those of all'
Australia, because at present the army and
navy and air force of Australia are entirely
at Wcstralia’s disposal—it is as though
that State owned the lot. Or do they pro-
pose just to “pole” on Australia?—to say
“We’ll do without a navy or an air force
and an army. If ever the need arises, Aus-
tralia will have to come to our rescue.
Meantime, we’ll just loaf on it.” No
doubt Westralia could save money that way.
But _ could it do it and have any respect
for itself? In trade-union circles they call
that blacklegging—taking the benefits of
union without paying any of the cost..
.
A Wheat Bonus for 1933.
This is the proper time to decide what we
are going to do about next season’s wheat
crop—in particular whether we are prepared
to give the farmer the bounty which is his
right in view of the fact that he gets no
direct benefit from the High Protection for
which he has to pay. Over most of the
wheat area of Australia good rains lately
fell, and preparations are already being
made for next “seeding.” We should not
expect any manufacturer to set his wheels
moving without some information as to the
protection which he would get; and the
farmer is entitled to as much. Upon the
assistance promised him will largely depend
the area he will crop.
The Government Statistician’s index
figures are of themselves conclusive evi-
dence that something ought to be done.
Taking the average prices for 1911 as the
base (=100), non-rural commodities last
year averaged 178; wheat averaged only 88.
So the wheat-farmer has to pay non-rural
producers a shade over twice as much wheat
for the goods he must purchase; and, of
course, the non-rural producer gets a shade
over 'twice as much wheat for the same
quantity of his goods. Much the same
results can be got from a comparison of
the basic wage. In 1911 the average for
the six capital cities was 48s. (males); it
is now about 71s. That is an increase of
48 p.c. Meantime the price for the farmer’s
grain has fallen 12 p.c.
What Protection costs the farmer it is
not possible to put into figures; no calcula-
tion which The Bulletin has seen is satis-
factory. But it is a substantial amount,
and it is meant to be substantial. We put
protective duties on for the express purpose
of enabling the home producer to get more
for his product so that he may pay high
wages and maintain a high standard of
living. The farmer is entitled to share in
the benefits of that protection; and a
bounty provided by a sales tax on wheat
locally consumed is the only practicable
method thus far suggested. It certainly
will put up the price of wheat for local con-
sumption; but the fact that a protectionist
duty will put up the price of the goods
required by the farmer, among others, has
never been accepted as a reason why it
should not be imposed. Indeed, as we have
just seen, it has been accepted as a good
reason why a duty should be imposed.
Is it Much of a Game, Anyway?
It may be blasphemy to suggest that cricket
isn’t the most perfect game in the world;
but you don’t prove that it is either
good or bad by showing that tens of thou-
sands turn up to see it played. Hundreds
of thousands turned up to see the first
Blondin caper on a tight rope; but that
didn’t make it a good game for either
youth or age. Could any game be a
good game which takes five or six days
to play?
The whole business wants recasting; but
the job will never be done so long as news-
papers lack the courage to attack the idol
and call upon it to justify itself. In parti-
cular, the position of the batsman must
be seriously considered. In practically
every other game a man may make a mis-
take and thereafter almost completely re-
trieve it. In cricket a Bradman or a Sutcliffe
may make one slip, and that ends the
matter so far as that innings is concerned
—and, so far as he is concerned, that
innings may be the whole game. The
common expression is that “anything may
happen in cricket.” Well, in the perfect
game anything should not be liable to happen.
The first-rate batsman should be reason-
ably sure of making a first-rate score.
But that cannot be done in a single
innings. It might be necessarj' to have
four innings, at least, to reach a fair aver-
age; but we can only get that many, twice
over, into one or two afternoons by making
it vastly more difficult to score at all, and
a man should not be permitted to stay at
the wickets without scoring.
The newspapers are of course very largely
to blame for cricket being what it is. They
want their pennies; and a game which is
capable of being strung on from day to
day, and in which “anything may happen,”
so that the result is in the gravest doubt
until even the fifth or the sixth day—such
a game is a gift of the gods to the circula-
tion. And it is a gift of the gods, too, to
the professional cricketer, cloaked or other-
wise, who gets payment in some form
according to the public interest a match can
evoke. But it is not a gift of the gods to
a country of a few million people with a
public debt of over a thousand millions—
a country which has been and still is guilty
of shameful extravagances, and which can
only get out of the bog it is in by hard,
steady work and rigid economy.
♦
The Position in Malaya.
A warning from “Si Anu”:—■
I hope the Australian merchants, on the
Java show boat have a pleasant trip and
that some good comes of the enterprise, but
it is as well they should have some know-
ledge of the realities. They are not coming
to countries bursting with prosperity. They
are coming to countries financially lying on
their backs. The rich export crops are in
the same position as Australian wool and
wheat. Rubber, which was once 12s. a
pound, is now 2Jd.; in British Malaya they
are discussing chopping down the trees to
make room for rice, and overseers’ bungalows
are being occupied by unemployed.
Singapore, the great Freetrade entrepot
established by Raffles, is actually debating
a Protectionist policy and the feasibility of
subsidising local manufactures to absorb the
huge idle labor force. The British idea of
rubber restriction has been revived —quite
uselessly, because the Dutch simply won't
come in ; and quite rightly, for they would
have a native insurrection on their hands
if they did. The native planted a few trees
in his backyard without having to form him-
self into a company or raise an overdraft,
and he can still go on tapping profitably even
if the price drops to a penny. The colored
population of the Dutch East Indies, owing
chiefly to the native capacity for living on
the smell of an oilrag, has weathered the
storm to date, but the Dutch Government
has the usual deficit, and its finances are in
an appalling state. Some observers foretell
a complete collapse.
About three-fifths of the trade of the
whole archipelago has vanished, and there is
furious competition for the diminished pur-
chasing-power. This is where Japan comes
in. The increased efficiency of her factories,
largely due to the stimulus of the Man-
churian War, the low standard but com-
paratively high education of her workers, her
shockingly long hours and the extensive use
of feminine working power, mainly juvenile,
have enabled her to undercut all her rivals;
and British trade, even in its old strong-
hold, Singapore, is fighting with its back to
the wall. Many British merchants, from
sheer necessity, have changed over to being-
agents of Japanese manufacturers.
The Red Herrins; of Isms.
Dear Bulletin, —For some time past you have
been knocking holes in Communism, Douglasism and
Fascism. Now, in your “Answers to Correspondents,”
this sensible advice is given: “But showing what
silly asses other people make of themselves doesn’t
get us much for’arder.” Well, as we know what
we should not do to regain economic equilibrium,
have you any plan of your own to put forward, or
are you content to Wait till matters get right of
their own accord? —W.B. (Tas.).
This paper thought it had made its own
position reasonably clear. It does not be-
lieve that any magical pill or potion is
either called for or will do any good.
Nearly all the popular isms are the refuges
of men who will not face the facts.
One of the facts, and the greatest of
them, is that the world-war left us immeas-
urably worse off than we were before. It
was a four-year period of colossal waste;
a period when millions of men were not
only taken away from productive occupa-
tions, but put to the job of deliberately
destroying what millions of others were
producing. Yet, when it was over, we
cheerfully assumed that we could have a
multitude of things we could never afford
before—in the way of public services and
so-called social services and superfluous
works and extravagances of every kind.
During the war we talked airily in millions.
Nothing mattered except to win. We filled
the world with paper, our promises to pay;
and these were changed into money. In
Australia, though the country was infinitely
poorer, our bank deposits increased from
149 millions in 1913 to 249 millions in
1919. And what happened in Australia hap-
pened in practically every country of
Europe. It was inflation of the most violent
character. And it had its natural conse-
quences. Between 1896 and 1905 the aver-
age price of our wool had been Bd.; in the
next 10 years it was 9.7 d. In 1923-24, under
the influence of this inflation, it was 24.1 d.;
in 1924-25, it was 25.2 d. And we made our
other values accordingly—as other coun-
tries also did. Wages advanced with prices.
Gradually a great speculative boom was
worked up in the U.&.A.; and the crash of
that was the definite beginning of the end.
Confidence was violently shaken. The de-
mand for raw materials (the production of
which had been enormously increased) fell
quickly, and prices with it. The purchas-
ing power of primary producers every-
where was thus cut into; this .soon affected
industries, and the slump there
reacted further on the primary industries.
The world of trade and industry was in
this process thrown out of equilibrium in
two ways: (1) the debts and fixed charges
of the boomtime did not adjust themselves
to the fall in values; and (2) the adjust-
ment of wages to the fall in values was
resisted by the better-organised labor
bodies.
It is absurd to think that we can get
out of the -difficulties we have thus made
for ourselves—and there are many compli-
cations—by some magical ism. We have
got to fight our way back.
4
Australian Speech.
“Country Ped” : State school-teachers
assembled in groups to discuss and frame
a new primary curriculum have recorded
that “there are several marked speech-
defects in Victorian children.” Considering
all the forces arrayed against good speaking
habits, it is a wonder there are not more
of these defects. In the first place, the child-
ren are close descendants of pioneers who
used various English, Scotch and Irish dia-
lects. (Even to-day Bendigo children say
“Where’s he to?”—a legacy of the Cornish
speech of so many of the early Bendigo
miners.) Yet, though the need was so
great, it is hardly more than 25 years since
the first determined effort was made to
include formal speech training in the school
curriculum, and even then the time allotted
was only 30 minutes a week. Further, until
the last few years teachers were not ade-
quately trained in habits of speech.
To rectify matters it is suggested in Vic-
toria that “much greater emphasis be
placed on oral composition by means of
‘Littleman lecture’ debates, dramatisation
and the like.” But with something like
400,000 radio licenses issued (and that
means over 1,000,000 people listening in to
the selected speakers and announcers, who
occupy about 50 per cent, of broadcasting
time) radio will have more effect on the
future speech of the nation than all the
proposed school efforts. What will the effect
be? Do those who are in charge of the
stations realise their responsibility in this
respect? Certainly the State has not shown
that for its part it realises any responsi-
bility whatever, since it permits anybody
to speak over the air, and requires no quali-
fications even from those who are profes-
sionally employed.
4
The Place of the Inspector in
Education.
Dear Bulletin, —It is strange that super-
vising officers in any walk of life are at
times looked upon with no friendly eye by
some of those who are supervised. Inspec-
tors of schools are not exceptions to this
rule, but the Australian teachers who now
look upon the inspector other than as
“guide, philosopher and friend” are exceed-
ingly few in number. And the reason is
obvious. Long since the inspector has
ceased to be a mere examiner;, having
allowed the major portion of the routine
examination to pass to the school itself.
Child-development interests him far more
than subject standards, and his attitude
towards teachers is that of a co-worker in
the field of education. He endeavors to
lead and to stimulate his teachers, to keep
them abreast of modern educational de-
velopments, to link up the schools with the
community, to encourage to the full the
use of teachers’ own methods, and, finally,
to assess the < worth of the teacher to the
community. He, of course, may fail in
some of these, but his aims are constant.
The few teachers who think differently
of the work of the inspector are possibly
either ill-informed or disgruntled. It has
been said that teachers who secure promo-
tion are schemers who play up to the faddist
inspector. The refutation of such an
absurd statement is easy to those who know
something of the outstanding educational
work done by highly-placed teachers in all
Australian States. —Yours, George A.
Osborne, Senior Inspector of Schools, Vic-
toria.
4
Julian Ashton.
For more than 40 years in Sydney Julian
Ashton has taught the practice of art to
students from all parts of Australia. But
he has done much more for this country
than that: he has taught an appreciation of
beauty to thousands who have never had
a brush or a palette in their hands. A
man who does this with the talents and
the fervor which Mr. Ashton brought to his
life’s work is a great social asset. One of
our misfortunes is that we have not, as
a nation, handed ourselves over more
freely to the guidance of such men. In-
stead we have turned our eyes too much
to material things, and have been filled
with discontent on finding that an extra
few shillings a day, or even an extra few
hundreds a year, have not brought us
happiness. For over 40 years Mr. Ashton
has been a voice crying in the wilderness
that happiness lies not in what we have
but in what we can see and feel; and the
wisdom of his philosophy is self-evident in
these days of unemployment and stress.
The Bulletin welcomes the exhibition of
work which his students have done over
this long period as an interesting reminder
of his services as a professional teacher;
but it welcomes the exhibition more for the
opportunity it gives to say - this word of
appreciation of the veteran/s wider services.


“Never let smoking
give you a sore throat’’
CRAVEN "A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
' iiViiiiMi
POLITICAL
POINTS
Leaving out the avowed Communists,
there now seem to be three Labor f ‘parties”
in N. S. Wales —Lang’s crowd; the socialisa-
tion group, which handled Lang and his
“Labor Daily” so roughly at the metropoli-
tan A.L.P. conference, and the Federal
Labor “party,” mildly bossed by Coates.
There are certainly three in South Aus. —
the Parliamentary Labor “party,” led by
Richards, the Premier; the A.L.P., which
is running a ticket against the P.L.P., and
“the Lang Labor ‘party,’ ” which has come
out against both. There was also a “Lang
Labor party No. 2,” which threw in its lot
with the A.L.P. Unions and branches are
leaving the A.L.P. at a great rate, so per-
haps “the Lang Labor party No. 2” will
add to the gaiety of the nation by seceding
again and asking Lang to come over and
help it.
A barnstorming joke of the Bilanderson
period has been neatly adapted to the poli-
cal situation in South Aus. A Trades Hall
worthy was asked by a distressed comrade
for the loan of a pound. “Blime!” he re-
plied, “if I had a pound I’d start another
Labor party.”
At the middle of the month the Common-
wealth Bank was holding over 15 millions
in London; and it looks a lot of money.
But it is 3 millions less than the bank had
there a year ago; which suggests that we
can’t afford to open our doors an inch wider
to imports. And last month N. S. Wales
imports simply shot ahead.
Lots of people who had an idea that
foreign exchange was some silly thing which
banks made a fuss about, and which couldn’t
possibly concern the man in the street be-
cause he never either sent money overseas
nor received any, are beginning to suspect
there is a catch in it somewhere. The
Sydney Electricity Department was looking
forward to a great surplus to justify it in
reducing power and lighting charges; and
there would have been a surplus of £205,698
but for exchange. As it is exchange has
mopped up all but £33,417, and the hope of
reduced charges has vanished.
The Westralian Cocky group, led by
Latham, the Minister of Lands, has lost its
hold on a good many wheat-farmers. In an
effort to regain it, Latham has come out as a
secessionist, and he asserts that secession is
the policy of his party. The gentleman is
kind enough to admit that “if the referendum
is carried it will be some time before the
vote of the people can be given effect to.” It
will be a long time indeed. Longer than
Latham is likely to adorn the political scene.
“This way, Jack, and look sharp about it.
Your farm’s going to be socialised, too.”
The U.S.A. has abandoned the melting-
!“,pot policy, but is still paying for it in many
ways. At Miami (Florida) the other day
an undersized Italian tried to shoot Frank-
lin Roosevelt when he was about to enter
his car. The murderous ruffian missed the
crippled President-elect, but four of the six
bullets he fired got home, Cermak, the Mayor
of Chicago, and a lady being badly wounded.
Grabbed by the police before the crowd
could lynch him, the gunman said, “I want
to keel all these Presidents who oppress
working men.” A natural effect of Red
revolutionary propaganda on a cracked
mind.
Uncle Sam is still cussing his good luck.
He made so much money during the war
and acquired so much gold that half the
world started sending him its savings to
take care of; and the rush of cheap money
produced the wildest stock-exchange boom
the world ever saw. This dragged values of
all kinds a bit' higher, and set the stage
for the biggest crash in history. It started
when the. most timid foreign lenders began
to ask Sam for their money back; the move-
ment to sell shares bought on small deposits
soon became a panic; and the struggle to
turn frozen assets into liquid cash and repay
deposits has been going on ever since—over
18 months. Hitherto the worst troubles
have been in farming States; but Detroit
“Gold may be all right in its place, but
it sure don’t seem to be good bird-
seed.”
and other great manufacturing cities of
Michigan are feeling the pinch so badly
that the Governor of that State has sus-
pended all banking business for eight days—
presumably to give managers a chance to
think up another lot of excuses for not com-
ing over with the promised cash.
“Stonewall” Jackson, who wanted to be
Minister of Local Government and Lud
Mayor of Sydney at the same time, is now
neither. li'agon beat him for the Town Hall
position (and seems now to be engaged in
falling out with his party, as is the way of
Civic Reform Lud Mayors), and Jackson
has relieved himself of the other. Spooner, the
Assistant Treasurer, succeeds to the port-
folio and the salary, and young Fitzsimmons
goes into the Ministry as honorary. There
is really no need for a separate Minister of
Local Government, or for more than 11
Cabineteers (there are 13) ; but Stevens,
with his civil-service training, can’t get rid
of the notion that if a four-figure job falls
vacant it must be filled.
“Stonewall” Jackson wanted the valuing
for the city transferred to the State Valuer-
General, and most of his colleagues weren’t
with him —probably because his party in the
council doesn’t agree with him either. The
Valuer-General’s office was one of Arthur
Griffith’s good ideas; but it turned out badly
in practice-—the more revenue Governments
wanted the higher the valuations were lifted,
until the office became one of the most power-
ful agents of boom, borrow and bust in the
land. Of course it wasn’t the only agent.
Tax-collecting departments were supplied
with quotas which they were expected to
reach ; and that led to other sky-high valua-
tions. And there doesn’t seem a way to
stop that sort of thing except by teaching
people to have more sense. When they will
kick a politician out for spending "tons of
money instead of rewarding him, economy
will begin.
The British Government is placing under
Commonwealth control a piece of Antarctica
“south of 60 degrees south, between 160
degrees east and 45 degrees east” ; portion of
it was discovered, and most of it explored,
by Mawson. It is asserted that “the area
has considerable actual and potential econo-
mic importance.” Then let us hand it over
to the people who, two years ago, wanted to
socialise N. S. Wales “by regulation,” within
three years, and now aspire to socialise
Australia in quick time, though the period
isn’t specified. Among the eternal ice and
snow they could release credits for a billion
without doing any harm, and abolish private
property without endangering their skins.
Whales and penguins would be easier to
handle than an expropriated borjoice.
Victoria has an able public servant in
R. W. Chenoweth, its chief tax-gatherer. The
Royal Commission on Taxation found him a
mine of information on the working of the
chaotic Federal and State taxation laws,
and Ferguson, J.. who knows competence
when he sees it. publicly thanked him. Valu-
able evidence in a necessarily restricted field
was also given by Adams, the Deputy Federal
Commissioner in Vic. It is not the fault of
such men that income tax has become unin-
telligible to most Australians, and in thou-
sands of cases iniquitous in its operation.
They have to administer the laws heaped on
them by the politician in his incessant pur-
suit of vote^.
As a rule, people who own a bit of pro-
perty have worked hard for it —very hard
if they are country people—and often they
can work no more. Yet they are taxed much
higher on what it yields than younger folk
on corresponding amounts made by working
or giving a colorable imitation of work. In
Victoria they pay twice as much, and the
Commonwealth, of course, added to rates
which discriminated against property income
a special tax of 10 p.c., from which “workers”
like bookmakers were exempt. Vic. Taxation
Commissioner Chenoweth says this penalis-
ing of property-owners is wrong. He sug-
gests standard rates of tax for both classes
of income, with an abatement of one-fifth
(as in Britain) or one-fourth for personal
earnings, any loss of revenue to be made
up by increased taxation of higher incomes.
This, as Chenoweth points out, would be
simpler as well as more equitable than the
double-tr-x business. It would also tend to
discourage the impression that our Govern-
ments regard thrift as a deadly sin.
Bunny has again become such a national
danger in N. S. Wales that the Government
is making £300,000 immediately available to
assist landowners in dealing with the pest.
The spending of that money will have to be
very ca-refully watched : it i.s easier to waste
money on alleged rabbit-destruction than on
most things—and that is saying a lot. The
problem is all the tougher because what is
a good rule for one part isn’t much good
in another. Thus that fine fair-country
squatter, F. D. McMaster, of Dalkeith, de-
nounces poisoning. Yet in the west it is
the only way to “take off the rough.”
McMaster says the only plan is to net, dig
out, dog and destroy cover. You can’t do
that sort of thing on wild country that takes
12 to 20 acres to run a sheep.
The operations of the Lang-appointed Milk
Board are receiving attention. Shand, K.C.,
has been asked to ascertain, as Royal Com-
missioner,
Whether any improper or corrupt practices or
acts were used or committed or attempted to be
used or committed by or on behalf of any person
or company in connection with the enactment of any
provision of the Milk Act 1931.
There is a lot more of it, but that will do
to go on with. Meantime young Mr. J. M.
Martin, M.L.C., whom Lang put on the
Milk Board because he was organiser for
the Electricians’ Union, or something like
that, has been ordered to give up possession
of a house mortgaged for £650. “He gets
a splendid salary,” said the mortgagee, in
effect, “but he won’t pay his interest —he
owes me £lOl 19s. lid. —or his rates.” A
stern and unbending Lang-planner, in short.
“The poisoner of the famous fig-tree at Elizabeth
Bay, Sydney, is being sought by the police.”
“It’s forty years old, but this ought to
settle it. And the Johns won’t trouble
me."
Victoria’s Government backed at least one
winner last year. Amalgamated Freezers
applied for and received £lO,OOO from the
unemployed-relief fund to enable them to
operate the works at Donald. Over 100,000
lambs were put through, and the season
proved so successful that the money was not
used. It has now been handed back.
A bullet in the back of the head was
the fate of the Commissar who didn’t move
smartly enough to the Left in the gory days
of the Revolution. The number of former
notables, beginning with Trotsky, who have
escaped into exile by the .skin of their teeth
is incalculable. How much more humane
the democratic penalties for reaction are!
Lang is plainly destined for the route that
has been trodden by so many Labor leaders
in Australia; we will have him blithering
platitudes about the Empire, and proclaim-
ing himself a true King’s man yet. He is
only remarkable inasmuch as his translation
to the ranks of the Right Thinkers is going
to be accomplished by his own brother-in-
law. Young Mr. Billy McNamara. Social-
isation’s Man of Destiny, is the logical suc-
cessor of the wealthy house-agent, gentle-
man-farmer and moneylender, who has no
more use for a revolution, as a matter of
practical politics, than an English duke has.
“W[?]an Premier Mitchell announced in his
policy speech that his Government would steer a
middle course.”
“There’s more danger in a middle course
than I thought.”
G. B. Shaw landed in Hongkong the other
day and caused the usual sensation by advis-
ing Chinese university students to “go up
to their necks in Communism.” In effect,
this elderly Irishman, who has been amus-
ing the British public for 40 years without
the slightest risk to himself, proposes a
course of action to a collection of callow
youths that may lead to a revolution. If
it does, the resolution will be seized on
by one or other of the mystical secret socie-
ties and turned into an insane religion full
of the odds and ends' of a dozen faiths. It
will throw up an autocratic leader, who will
confer invulnerability on his followers by
means of charms. The movement will spread
like wildfire; thousands of victims will be
massacred, tortured and flayed; provinces
will be devastated; cities put to the sword.
This is not a fancy picture. It is what
happened in the Taiping rebellion.
Another committee has reported to the
League of Nations Assembly that the
Japanese have no right to be in Manchukuo;
and the Japanese delegates at Geneva are
about to go home. Also the Cabinet at Tokio
(whose powers are limited compared with
those of Cabinets in other countries) w-ants
Japan to leave the League. Meantime the Japs
and Chinese are preparing to fight it out in
Jehol as soon as the weather pei’mits them to
quit their winter quarters. The Manchester
“Guardian” says the League, “acting together
with the U.S.A. and Russia ( !),” must “con-
sider what measures it can take to make it
impossible for Japan permanently to stand
its ground.” If there is any danger of such
“measures” being applied, Australia will
have to notify in good time that it will be
no party to them. Over-populated, depres-
sion-ridden, boycotted (by the Chinese), with
a hostile Russia on one flank and an un-
friendly U.S.A. on the other, and with neither
allies nor overseas colonies, Japan is in an
extraordinarily difficult position, and the
Australian Government ought to recognise
it if bellicose pacifists at Geneva won’t.
These “comrades” who let off steam at the
Sydney Labor hullabaloos called conferences
are a queer lot. Very few of them attended
the war (some were, of course, too young),
and —apart from the rather faded occu-
pation of rounding up wage-earners and
extracting trade-union subscriptions and
strike levies from them —not one of them
has shown any talent for the management
of businesses and men. Yet they are all
supremely confident of their ability to “take
and hold the means of production, distribution
and exchange,” and supremely contemptuous
of “the capitalists.” At their recent shindy
they repudiated as “capitalist” State Parlia-
ments, the Senate, Arbitration Courts, the
Boy Scout and Girl Guide organisations,
and even the Red Cross. In between bouts
of faction-fighting they demanded that
“Marxian economics” should be taught in the
Government schools. With equal fervor they
insisted that the State should subsidise the
anti-Marxian denominational schools. Then
they turned to faction-fighting again, each
group proclaiming itself a paragon of con-
sistency and devotion to principle.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“W.A.0.”: Dad was down the paddock
when the salesman for white-ant extermina-
tor arrived at a N.S.W. North Coast farm.
He explained his mission to the English lad
at the house, con-
cluding his glow-
ing tributes to liis
nostrum with the
question, “H av e
you any white
ants?” The lad
looked thoughtful,
but finally bright-
ened up. ‘‘No, I
haven’t,” he said,
“but I think the
boss has.”
POCKET MONEY.
“Never much in undefended suits for us lawyers.”
“No, I suppose there isn’t. And I daresay lawyers’ wives have found that out, too.”
(( “Spokeshave”: Aristotle, who popularised
pei lpatetic through his habit of walking
would be interested
to know that the word has been substituted
for “no fixed place of abode” in Yic. susten-
ance forms. The South Melbourne Town
Clerk, in turning down an application for
a beach kiosk license, wrote that the council
could not accept the guarantee of a “peri-
patetic.” Next morning an indignant citi-
zen burst into the office flourishing a stick,
Unless you write me a letter withdrawing
that peri-p-p. I’ll knock your head off!’’ lie
said in effect. “WJiat’s wrong with the
word?” asked the Town Clerk. “What’s
wrong w r ith it?” shouted the indignant one.
“My mother and father were married, and
I’ve got evidence to prove it”; and he
slammed a birth certificate down on the
desk.
“Tuart”: A quaint extract from Mel-
bourne “Age”:—
INSOLVENCIES.
Socrates John Athans, of West Brunswick, sales-
man - . Causes of insolvency: Adverse judgments.
Liabilities, £166/9/(1. Assets, nil.
Perhaps the trouble that befell the original
Socrates was described as laconically in
some publication of the period:—
OBITUARIES.
Socrates, of Athens, philosopher. Cause of death:
Hemlock, consequent upon adverse judgment. Lia-
bilities: One rooster, to be sacrificed to /Esculapius.
Assets, nil.
* * *
“Nakhoda” : The Dutch have had 10 face
plenty of insurrections amongst their
Javanese subjects, but the latest is the first
to which, thanks to Marconi, the whole world
listened-in. The worst
thorn in the Nether-
lander’s side was a
Javanese Nero who,
when lie was hoisted
to the throne with
Dutch aid, murdered
22,000 of his relatives
and friends to cele-
brate the occasion and
later caused 100 women
to be starved to death,
in order to demon-
strate his grief over
the loss of a favorite
wife. Subsequently he
rebelled against the
Dutch power and cor-
nered 400 soldiers of
the white garrison in
his capital. When
they surrendered lie
offered them the alter-
native of being exe-
cuted or circumcised
and converted. History
doesn’t record their
choice. This monarch
is now reverenced as a
saint and his tomb is a
popular place of pil-
grimage. Most native
revolts have been en-
gineered or fomented
by renegade Europeans,
in which category the
Dutch are in the habit
of including the Eura-
sian. The fact that
the Eurasian is an un-
certain ally and that
the native remains
stubbornly, if some-
what, lethargically,
nationalistic accounts
for the touch of hys-
teria one is always
conscious of amongst
the Dutch in Java. The habit of the Brit-
isher of sleeping with his doors and windows
wide open amazes the Hollander, who locks
himself in at night, whatever the tempera-
cure.
“F.S.”: One of Melbourne’s leading
painters recently completed a portrait of a
venerable lady whose age is 9S. On being
asked what she thought of the picture she
said, promptly and resolutely, “I don’t like
it at all —you have made me look quite
old!”
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide University is about to
spend Langdon Bonytlion’s gift of £4O 000
0 n a Great Hall. For some B 5 years- all big
TT . ~ . , u
University gatherings have been held in the
Conservatorium. The new structure will not
go down the hill towards the river, like the
Barr Smith library and other recent
additions. It will face North-terrace, close
to the Exhibition, making, with the original
building and the Elder Hall behind, the third
side of a quadrangle, with the front left
open for posterity to fill in. The plans are
approved, and the contract provides for com
pletion in about two years.
Chenier _: Kidnapping wealthy U.S. citi-
zens or their children and holding them to
ransom has becom-e, by recent accounts, “an
industry second in lucrativeness only to
bootlegging, and the Denver legislature has
been moved to make the crime punishable by
imprisonment for life and the torturing ot
kidnapped, persons a capital offence. The
kidnapper s trump card is that few wealthy
people are Spartan enough to defy press-
ure and threats where the safety of
those they love is concerned; they would
rather treat with criminals than leave it to
the law to hunt them down. Kidnapping
tor ransom, though rare enough in northern
Europe, is a business that has flourished in
Mediterranean countries for centuries, and
in China probably from time immemorial.
And the kidnapped person can probably be
stacked away just as safely in a crowded
city as in some bandits’ cave in a desolate
mountain range, such as Greek and Italian
operators were wont to keep for their cap-
fives. There are plenty of cases of affluent
British tourists falling among this type of
NO CAUSE FOR SADNESS.
THE BOSS (sadly): “Yes, Billy, they’re off back to school, and their mother’s gone
down to be near them.”
BILLY: “My word, Boss, you bin change places longa me, you good pfeller.”
marauder. Sometimes their relatives paid;
occasionally the law vindicated itself and
relieved them of the necessity. There was
even one solitary case where, after £5OOO
had been handed over for the release of two
Englishmen seized by brigands, local
authority laid the kidnappers by the heels
and actually recovered most of the money,
That was in Spain, of all countries; there
is no record of it having ever happened yet
in the XT S A
* * * *
. . . .
i oKeno : Tuuciiing the -poisoning of that
fig-tree at Elizabeth Bay, Sydney (B.
8/2/’33), some clue to motive might be
found in one of the leading character-
istics of the Moreton Bay fig, the ten-
dency of its serpentine roots to get a
strangle-hold on anything handy. Inciden-
tally, as one who has studied trees in various
parts of the world, I cannot but regard as
absurd some of the statements regarding the
age of the tree. I was once ready to believe,
with many others, that the sacred trees of
New (Caledonia and Ceylon were centuries
old, but an eminent botanist shook my belief;
he was emphatic that this variety of fig-
tree is not very long-lived. To put the
matter beyond doubt, I wrote to the autho-
rities at Kcw (Eng.) and Calcutta, and had
this opinion confirmed. The Elizabeth Bay
tree is not SO years old.
* * * *
.■., . , ,
~ , ' : >oh ernes that seem absolutely water-
f £?ht have a perverse habit of going agley.
Pake the Bondi dressing-slieds. When they
were built at a tremendous cost it was
thought that they would just about meet
the demand on holidays. Then motorists
discovered the trick of travelling from as
far afield as Potts Point and Woollahra in
their bathing-costumes, arrivals by tram de-
veloped a knack of changing on the beach
without shocking the modesty of the censori-
ous, and of course Bondi resident's didn’t
want sheds to dress in. The result is the
sheds have been almost deserted this sum-
mer (of 50,000 surfers who used Bondi
Beach on a recent fine Sunday only 5000
patronised them), and the Waverley Coun-
cil is losing £5OOO a year, which has
to be met out of the rates. Governments,
councils and the like are continually backing
these losers with the public’s money, and
they put in a lot of their time in the inter-
vals trying to devise fresh means of prevent-
ing the same public from gambling!
* * * *
lln . ’
..TrPi’-m-wW /mo^ rt - lly i ? on< !X r v7 lth
F.I.A.T. (B. 20/l/33) in laying the blame
t°r most motor accidents on careless dnv-
mg. Since 1904 I have driven every type
of car except steam, with one-, two-, four-
and six-cylinder engines. In many parts of
the country and bush I have been the
first to take a car. During my first 10
years of driving I had no dynamo or
electro-motor; the lamps were kerosene-
burners; there was no windscreen or self-
starter. I have had wheels come to pieces,
axles break, brakes fail to act, cardon
shafts fall down and steering gear carry
away many times—-owing to defects in con-
struction and to the fact that I was driving
other people’s worn-out machines. And all
this in bush and city, day and night. But
in 29 years I have never injured anyone,
never even killed an animal, never run into
another vehicle and never had a complaint
made against me. This is not written in a
boasting spirit,, but merely to suggest that
any other ordinary person could do the same,
with ordinary care. One other point. When-
ever a car, after a collision or sideslip,
“rolls over,” that is a sign that it was mov-
ing too fast—that is, too fast for its weight,
build, brake-control and momentum. Each
car should be tested regarding this, and
have its own speed limit,
* * * *
“Kerys”: There was a great commotion
at a Sydney mansion the other day when
it was discovered that four valuable rings
were missing. A “cat burglar” was blamed,
and the matter was handed to the* insurance
co. for adjustment. Then on the nurse’s day
out, while the lady of the house was seeing
her four-year-old to bed, the youngster
dropped a bomb by remarking that it was
“naughty of Billy Laged live] to throw
Mummy’s rings away.” Startled inquiries
revealed that Billy, having purloined the
rings and grown tired of toying with them,
had casually dropped them at different
points. Frantic search in and around the
garden has yielded up two rings; the other
two, of a value of over £lOO, remain where
Billy discarded them.
* ~r * *
“Strict Veg.”: “You’re no worker” is
said to be the deadliest form of abuse to
offer a person in Moscow, and to call a
woman a lady is an insult that can only
be wiped out in blood. To call a woman
anything else in Melbourne is a libel. A
fair creature who had had a patch of hair,
3in. by fin., torn off her scalp at the Vic-
toria Markets thus described the incident:
“The lady said to the gentleman, ‘Look at
this coming along.’ They were giggling at
me. I said, ‘You want to be looking at your-
self, and not be laughing at me.’ The
lady said, ‘Let me at her.’ The gentleman
pulled me by the hair, and the lady tore
my arm back. When the gentleman let go
of my hair he had a handful in his hand.”
It is not recorded what the gentleman did
with his trophy.
* * * *
“S.S.” : Anyone who thought of taking up
burglary as a profession might have bought
a kit cheap at a police sale at Stawell East
(yi c .) the other day. The announcement of
the auction caused a certain amount of com-
ment, but Chief Commissioner Blarney
pointed out that the items were goods on
sale anywhere; and, anyhow, the police are
required under the Police Offences Act to
sell confiscated property. The kit consisted
of five detonators, two lengths of fuse, a
diamond cutter and a torch. In detective
fiction, one of those handsome, humorous
gentleman crooks would doubtless have
attended the sale incognito, bought the
articles, executed a neat robbery of tbe pearls
belonging to the Police Commissioner’s wife,
and left the outfit with a flippant note on
Blarney’s writing desk,
* * * *
“Shah Johan”: According to a cable,
European circles in India are much exer-
cised over a sentence imposed by the High
Court of Hyderabad on the ringleader of
a gang of thugs. This malefactor, who was
convicted of murder, has been sentenced to
pay a fine of £l5 and serve 12 months with
hard labor; at the expiration 0 f his
stretch lie is to be beheaded. There is
talk of interference by the Sirkar, but that
j s hardly likely. The Nizam of Hyderabad
j s 0110 0 f the five premier princes of India
entitled to a salute of 21 guns, and inter-
fCrence in the domestic affairs of his kiim-
dom ig a thing cven the Indian Government
won]d think twice about. In any case, there
j s little to cavil at in the sentence, save,
perhaps, from the prisoner’s point of view,
Here in Australia a condemned man has to
undergo at least a fortnight’s imprisonment
after sentence before he is turned off, and
in the immemorial East a few extra davs
or months make no matter.
TWO VOICES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Theodore, speaking at Mosman., said that
never in Australia’s history had the future been
blacker.’’
“Premier S’tevens, addressing the Sane Democracy
League, said that the all-round recovery in industry
during the last six months had filled him with
optimism.”
Tot homines —you know the aphorism—
So many men, so many views to voice.
And here are two in flat antagonism ;
You pay your money and you take your
choice,
Descend with Ted to depths of pessimism
Or take a tip from Tubby and rejoice.
Though each is speaking doubtless from the
heart,
What poles apart they are, what poles apart!
Say, have you ever heard a skylark twitter
And trill his music blithe when morning
broke,
And turned to find a raven, from a litter
Of withered foliage on a blasted oak,
Emitting observations harsh and bitter
In an infernally discordant croak?
No? Wei], I haven't either, I’ll allow,
But that’s the sort of way I’m feeling now.
Beside the one, Cassandra, Trojan mother
Of gloom, was scarce a more depressing
nark.
“Woe unto you,” he groans. Whereas the
other
Is keeping up his pecker, dawn till dark,
So cheerily he might have been a brother
Of Dickens’s inimitable Mark —
Tapley, to wit, the optimistic. Haply
You’ve not forgot the buoyancy of Tapley.
Heart up. Sir Doleful! What if Fortune
cuffed you,
It needn’t make you melancholy’s prey;
Though man’s ingratitude has soured and
roughed you,
The wheel will yet, I’ll warrant, spin your
way;
What though you felt you’d been, when they
rebuffed you,
_ Butchered to make a Langite holiday,
You still may live t 0 see your Mte noire, too,
Poleaxed, to make a gala day for you.
Ah, well! To know one’s valued always
leavens
Acute anxiety and haunting doubt:
But chirpiness when luck is breaking evens
Is hard to show when you’ve been counted
out.
Through rosy-tinted glasses placid Stevens
Surveys the world, ahead and roundabout,
While Theodore his hands can only wring
And emulate that gloomy prelate Inge,
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“C.R.”: It is seldom tourists get the
better of the native hawkers who infest the
ports on the Anglo-Australian run. On our
trip abroad in 1931 Algiers was in the itiner-
ary, and we arrived there on Sunday when
the banks were shut. The usual crowd of
hucksters attacked us on the wharf: They
found business dull until someone discovered
that he could make a two-shilling purchase
with an Australian pound (then at a 30
per cent, discount) and receive 18 good Eng-
lish shillings change. This entirely altered
the situation and there was a rush back to
the purser for more Australian currency.
At the hotels they were no wiser, and the
barmen accepted our silver at English value,
after carefully examining the kangaroo on
each coin. Obviously we were the first boat
from Australia since the currency debacle;
I often wonder how the next one fared.
THE CONNOISSEUR.
THE COLONEL: “What’s this leathery-looking stuff?”
THE WAITER: “That’s fillet of sole, sir!”
THE COLONEL: “Well, take it away and get me a nice piece of
upper—and tell the chef he can keep the laces!”
“Morimoto”: I can confirm the statement
(B. 8/l/’33) that in malarial countries
human carriers of the scourge are as great
a problem as the mosquito itself. I was
sent to a Bornean island which had been
free from the complaint for so long that the
cable company, much the largest local
employer, had reduced the foreign service
allowance, which was a sort of indemnity
for occupational disease risks. A few weeks
after my arrival a man turned up from the
East Coast of Africa who was evidently
loaded with malaria. Within a couple of
months every white man and woman on the
island was or had been down with the disease
in a particularly virulent form. Those who
could get away went elsewhere, fresh poten-
tial victims of course coming in their places.
The originating cause of the epidemic re-
signed his job and went back to England.
But the trouble he had introduced spread to
a British coalmine, which closed down,
throwing out of work several hundred
Chinese coolies, who armed themselves with
nondescript weapons and wandered about
the island holding up peaceable citizens until
the Government sent some Sikhs and a
steamer and repatriated the starving mob
to China. The disease got into the native
quarters and industry came almost to a
standstill. The P.W.D. man who was re-
sponsible for the sanitation pottered around
excitedly with a theory that a bottle of
English stout a day was an infallible preven-
five. There was a shortage of stout, and
the natives couldn’t have afforded to take
the treatment even if there hadn’t been, so
his theory lacked sufficient confirmation,
However, when he got the fever himself, he
put it to the proof by consuming two daily
bottles of stout and making a quick recovery.
“Adelaide”: A Port Adelaide man, charged
with drawing rations when he had an in-
come, got off on the odd but logical plea that
the “income” was capital. The police knew
he had sold a horse for £3, and thought him
disqualified; but the Court upheld his con-
tention that he had merely “realised a capi-
THE REFUGE.
“After all, old girl, there’s no place like home.”
“What? Had another row at the club?”
tal asset,” and thus his non-existent income
was not affected at all.
:|s * * *
“Fourwalls”: A special place has been
made in the ambulatory of the Melbourne
Shrine of Remembrance for a list of names
of Australians who fought for one or other
of the Allies outside of the A.I.F. There
were hundreds of such. The Gaunt family,
of Ballarat, with its two Australian-born
admirals (Guy and Ernest), established a
record under this head, four members of the
clan serving respectively with the R.N., the
U.S. Navy, the Rangoon Volunteers and the
Fourth Dragoon Guards. Many Australians
fought with the Russians, among them Frank
Lulcs, now a noted inventor. Melbourne-
born, he first served a term with the Foreign
Legion, and, after the outbreak of war,
joined the Russian Flying Corps, and, as
Lukschewitz, won distinction as an ace.
H* ■!* •!•
“Clarence Cafeteria”: A real gipsy, in full
regalia—white blousette, black velvet corsage,
embroidered white skirt and apron, plaited
hair, ornamented
with gold coins, and
a red scarf over
her head —held up
the traffic at Mel-
bourne markets the
other evening when
she got out of a
caravan and re-
plenished her pan-
try to the call of
Mr. Clapp’s “Eat
More Fruit.” At
first the crowd
thought she was a
publicity stunt for
a moving pictui'o
and took no par-
ticular notice, the
city being normally
full of out-of-work
cab-drivers ma s-
querading as Mexi-
can cowboys and
ex-navvies drifting
about in doublet
and hose. But she
had two small,
da r k-s k i n n e d.
bright, beady-eyed
and very dirty
boys with her, also
in gipsy dress, and
her broken English
left no doubt that
she was the genuine
article. The way
the crowd was hypnotised by this stray bit
of cosmopolitanism makes it easier to under-
stand how a gipsy allegedly made a living
by mesmerising bank-tellers in Maoriland
recently.
* * *
“Kris”: “Pawang” says that it is the
rule for Malay women to be slim (B.
15/2/’33). It may be in Malaya, for all
I know, but one of the first things that
struck me in Cape Town, a good many years
ago, was the girth and avoirdupois of the
ladies of this race. The Malays established
themselves under the shadow of Table Moun-
tain at a very early date, and made a specialty
of the fish and fruit trade —it is rather
a wonder they never tried anything of the
same sort in Australia. The Cape Town
Malays were born traders and efficient ones,
and their highly-colored attire brightened up
the markets ; but exceeding plumpness was
a characteristic of the women, and many
of them were regular mountains of flesh.
* * * *
“Gumnut” : “Chevroford” sings the praises
of the Westralian red-flowering gum as
an ornamental tree for city thoroughfares,
and asks what objection can be raised to
it (B. 15/2/’33). There are several, though
the popularity of the magnificent gum has
become almost world-wide sihee John For-
rest, in his exploring days, was struck by
the beauty of Eu/Calyptus ficifolia in country
to the east of Albany, and kept it in mind
when King’s Turk. Perth, was set aside as
a place where native flora might be pre-
served—he sent an expert gardener to
collect seed from the specimens that had
impressed him years before. In due course
King’s Park could show a fine avenue of
flowering gums, and country townships ex-
perimented with them, but they were not
found hardy or long-lived in their new habi-
tats, and were often uprooted by storms,
And for years past, in and around Perth, it
has been noted that the trees are succumb-
ing to some mysterious disease which causes
the bark to break and produces much the
same effect as ringbarking would do. “There
is no known remedy,” says the Government
Botanist gloomily. He hints that unless one
is discovered the days of red-flowering gums
are numbered in the very place where they
were first, so to speak, domesticated.
* * * *
“Ancient”: It is not only in clothing
and equipment that the British soldier is suf-
fering a change. His new rifle, (N 4 Mark I)
will have an aperture backsight instead of
the present open one. The rifle is slightly
heavier, but weight is saved by the abolition
of the block on which the bayonet ,was slid.
The new bayonet is socketed, like that of the
old Martini-Henry weapon, and slips over
the barrel to fasten with a locking ring, as
in the days of Brown Bess. The nine-inch
blade will be four-edged, this making it
easier to withdraw, experience having shown
that the old flat blade was apt to stick in
the subject even when inserted with the
regulation twist of the wrist which was
supposed to help in disengaging it, a sup-
position not always borne out in practice.
There is a new pattern trench tool, also,
and the waterproof-sheet will have armholes
and a slit for the neck, like the Spanish
poncho. A welcome innovation is the new
water-bottle of a metal alloy which will not
corrode and spoil the rum issue, as the old
iron one always did.
* * * H=
“Lao-dah”: The sad warning provided by
the elderly Chinese hawker who won a
Tatt.’s sweep and
left Melbourne only
to die of a surfeit
of darp suei in
Canton has had a
successor. One
Mark Cripps, of
Manchester, had
been a teetotaller
of 20 years’ stand-
ing. He won the
Irish sweep, went
on a beano and
diod in two months,
the verdict being
alcoholic poisoning.
He mixed beer,
rum and whisky in
the same glass,
which is what an
ex-teetotaller would
do.
“B e a n b a h” : I
had often heard of
a prospective heir
being “cut out” of
a huffy testator’s
will, but I didn’t
realise that the
thing could be done
literally. In Bris-
bane the other day
an application was
made to the
Supreme Court for
directions in the
administration of a
will of a well-to-do
lady who had be-
queathed her estate
to numerous rela-
tives. In the midst
of the list of lucky
legatees a gaping
hole appeared in
the parchment
where the testatrix
had applied the
scissors to remove
the name 0 f a niece
who had fallen
from grace. Was
there ever a sim-
pler codicil?
“.Teames”: Rhodes devised his famous
scholarship scheme in great part to help
Oxford, for which he had the sentimental
affection of an old Oxonian in a distant land.
It has had the unexpected effect of damaging
Oxford in two important directions —its social
and athletic prestige. The Rhodes scholars
proved to have strange accents and ways;
they were usually poor (though a few pre-
war Germans had money) ; they were older
than the generality of their undergraduate
contemporaries, and they, took life with dis-
concerting seriousness. They began by mak-
ing Oxford unpopular in the great public
schools by their prowess as athletes; it was
felt vaguely that for Cambridge to be licked
by imported champions wasn’t quite cricket.
So Cambridge became more and more
fashionable. Not only did Etonians and
Harrovians turn to it who might other-
wise have gone up to the “House” or Mag-
dalen, but it began to attract rich young
men from the Dominions who didn’t want
to be mistaken for Rhodes scholars. And
in a very short time Cambridge was winning
boat races and cricket matches again. Now
Oxford is irretrievably associated in the
British public mind with what England calls
“colonialism,” and there is a fond impres-
sion that the cream of the nation’s public-
school products is to be found at the rival
’Varsity. The heroes of nearly all the ’
“Ouidas” of to-day are Cantabs. The damn-
able injustice of it is that, in spite of the
Rhodes scholars. Oxford is still practically
as English as Cambridge; according to the
latest census it has 472 foreigners to Cam-
bridge’s 471. London University has five
times as many as either of them.
* * *
“Rogue Riderhood”: That paragraph (P>.
15/2’/33) about the tug maintained at the
Tower Bridge across the Thames recalls that
Waterloo Bridge over the same river has
the reputation of being the suicide’s pet
jump-off place, being far ahead of London
Bridge in this respect. So well i.s this recog-
nised that at the Waterloo Pier Police
Station a special hospital room is maintained
with all appliances for reviving those mak-
ing the jump. Night and day, under the
bridge, a skiff manned by two Thames police
is kept to pick up those seeking a way out
of their troubles. This skiff has a roller
on ball-bearings across the stern. Getting
a struggling suicide into a small boat is a
ticklish job, and upsets were once common.
Now the patient, when grabbed, is passed
aft to the stern and pulled in over the roller
without fuss or danger of capsizing.
* * Sis
“Shep” : A commercial I toured with had
a method of his own for providing us both
with stretcliing-out room in railway carriages
(B. 8/2/’33). The approach of passengers
at any wayside stops would start him off
moaning; then for their benefit he’d express
a hope to me that they didn’t have kids to
collect measles off him. But once we slipped.
He’d had measles at Werris Creek before;
despite his moanings, a night porter with a
good memory bustled in, pulled on the light
and stuck a port up in the rack. “I hope he’s
not frightened of catching measles,” came
from the rugged form on the other _ seat.
“Not ’im!” bellowed the porter. “ ’E’ll be
good company for yer; ’e ain’t sure if it’s
scarlet fever or smallpox ’e’s got.”
Hs * * $
“Avon” : Gladstone’s name is appended to a
hamlet in Central Otago,. M.L. (B. 8/2/’33).
The G.O.M. once had serious intentions of
settling in another part of the Shivery
Islands —he went to the length of purchas-
ing land in Canterbury. As a youngster in
the office of a Christchurch law firm, I
remember being shown the agreement of
sale bearing the famous signature. Further-
more, I was shown the room in an old house
near St. Michael’s Church—-the pioneer
church of the Province—where Gladstone
was said to have slept when he visited
Maoriland as a young man—which he never
did —and my informant was equally positive
THE ARTLESS MADEMOISELLE.
MADAME GUSHER : “Oh, he’s a terrible man. He said he'd give
£10 to see me in my bath!”
MDLLE. TARTAIRE: “What are you going to buy with it?"
that Lord Salisbury had also been a visitor
to Christchurch and had slept in that same
room, a statement which was perhaps equally
reliable. The house, however, was ecclesias-
tical property, and many important person-
ages were entertained there from the ’fifties
along to the late ’seventies. There is a
Hawarden parish in Canterbury, and I have
an idea the land Gladstone bought was
somewhere in that vicinity, and possibly got
its name from the connection.
SOUTHERLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A whisper ran among the leaves
Of camphor-laurel, green and red.
The whisper died. He raised his head
In the hot room below the caves
And listened.... Only this he heard:
The hushed notes of a drowsy bird
(Some willy-wagtail talking in its sleep),
A score of crickets sending
Morse messages unending,
A solemn mopoke hooting, grave and deep;
And, undercurrent in night’s symphony,
Mosquitoes’ thin, persistent battle-cry.
Down in the road
The hard white moonlight showed
Each grass-stem clear as day.
No least breath came to sway
Arachne, straddled on her web’s festoon,
Fat, black against the moon.
Low in the south the city’s spears of light
Thrust at the stifling curtain of the night,
And southward turn all weary wakeful eyes,
South, where cool healing lies.
Somewhere beyond the radiance of the moon,
Far leagues beyond the utmost ocean’s swell,
Are couched the winds that soon, ah ! surely
soon.
Will leap from out their ice-bound citadel.
Spurn the wild seas and storm the rugged
coast,
An irresistible, victorious host,
Sw r eep breathless hill and heat-exhausted
plain,
And bring the whole parched land relief
again,
Once more through leaves and grasses
The whisper passes;
But in its wake a deeper sound is borne....
Now city lights blot out,
And racing northward, stormy banners torn,
Quenching the moon, putting the stars to
rout,
Bending the giant gums,
With fierce triumphal shout
And roll of drums,
Southerly—southerly—it comes, it comes !
N.S.W.
R. A. S.


Honours
arc the of virtue *
(saith Cicero)
Virtues eventually gain recognition, and men have long realised the fine virtues of
Fayrefield Hats. For half-a-century men have accepted their debonair appearance
and their tasteful style.
Craftsmen, whose skill has come to them from their forefathers, make Fayrefield
Hats .. . hats of rare quality, hats of sheer-silk smoothness, hats beautifully curled
and smartly curved.
Fayrefield Hats may be had at better class stores for 25/- and for 30/-.
mm - t t\ f
iprtWHno [
m
©
V
m
n
in
£
L
©
r
y
m*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
There were few better-known Methodist
ministers in these parts than Stanley Jarvis,
whose useful life closed at Kooringa (S.A.)
on Saturday. He began laboring in the vine-
yard on the Greenough Flats, one of West-
ralia’s oldest farming districts, 35 years ago ;
he knew goldfields settlements and nav-
vies’ camps, and subsequently he preached
the Word in other States, the Islands and
the N.T., making friends among all denomi-
nations, for he was a sociable soul. He died
doing something for other people—fell to
the bottom of a shaft at the old Burra mine
“while trying to cover the top so that child-
ren using the open cut as a swimming pool
might be safe” —and that was how he had
lived.
Edward William Knox has retired from
the directorate of the Colonial Sugar Refin-
ing 'Co. (founded by his father) after being
associated with the enterprise for a trifle
over 68 years—which must be something of
a record in Australian big business. Edward
the younger, now 85, entered the service of
the firm in 1864. was appointed general
manager in 1881, became a director in 1909
arid chairman of directors in 1920. He has
seen the annual output of the refinery grow
from 5000 tons of sugar to 300,000 tons.
Sydney has had some bets whether E. W.
Knox or George Judah Cohen would retire
first —the former from the Sugar Co., the
latter from his string of boards, including
the Commercial Bank of Sydney. The Hebrew
won, although he is 91 as against the other’s
mere 85.
On the eve of facing the electors, the
Mitchell Ministry in Westralia has lost by
death its Attorney-General, T. A. L. (“Tad”)
Davy, not yet 43. Davy was one of the first
Australian Rhodes scholars, if not quite the
first, to make good in politics and reach
Cabinet rank; he had been M.L.A. for West
Perth for just on nine years and Attorney-
General for three years. His father was
a well-known Perth doctor in his day; the
son, born in Maoriland, won the Rhodes
scholarship from Perth High (now Hale)
School, and, after graduating at Exeter Col-
lege, Oxford, was called to the Bar. Just
then the war started, and the young advo-
cate served right through it, first with the
R.F.A. in France, later in India, retiring
with captain’s rank. Since then he had
made his mark as a sound lawyer, a skilful
debater and a probable successor to. the party
leadership; a career of great promise has
closed all too soon.
Ernest Johns Payne, new chairman of the
N.S.W. Public Service Board, has been a
civil servant for 20 years. He studied law
and practised in the Maitland district. In 1912
he was appointed legal officer to the newly-
constituted Department of Labor and Indus-
try; two years later he was Industrial Regis-
E. J. PAYNE, just added to N.S.W.’s
Public Service Board.
trar; another two years and he succeeded J.
B. Holme as Under-Sec. of the department.
He held that position until eight years ago,
when lie was made Public Trustee—during
his term of office he doubled the business
handled. Outside office hours he takes a
keen interest in charities and public move-
ments. He did a lot of fine work for the
Oversea Settlement Delegation and the Anzac
Memorial Trust, and has helped the Sydney
Rotary Club to prosper.
Monsignor Cattaneo is returning to Rome,
and it is expected that he will receive a car-
dinal’s red hat. He was born in 1866 and
became a priest in 1891. He has been
Apostolic Delegate to Australia since 1917.
Don Mariano Amoedo. the new Consul-
General for Spain, is digging-in in Sydney:
hitherto headquarters have been in Mel-
bourne, but Sydney is handier to Canberra.
His own job lias been done hitherto chiefly
in Madrid: he has been for 22 years in the
Foreign Office. The League of Nations
Union is thrilled to have him: “My coun-
Spain’s New Consul-General.
try,” he told a meeting the other day, “is
the only one in the world which has officially
renounced war and agreed to submit all dis-
putes of an international character to settle-
ment by arbitration.” Incidentally, it has
115.77 people per sq. mile; Australia has
2.20.
John Garibaldi Roberts, who passed over
in Melbourne the other day, was the son of
one of Victoria’s earliest pioneers and him-
self helped to pioneer the Melbourne tram-
ways. He retired from the managership of
the original co. at the end of the last century
and established himself at Kallista, in the
Dandenongs, where his home became an artis-
tic and literary Bohemia. Another pioneer-
ing job of his was the launching of the Back
to Scarsdale Society, which started the rural
hadj movement in Victoria. O. J. Dennis
dedicated “The Sentimental Bloke” to
Roberts and his wife in recognition of
pleasant days spent at Kallista.
Westralian Premier Mitchell, who delivered
his policy speech, as usual, at Northam,
enjoys the distinction of having been per-
sistently returned for that agricultural centre
ever since he entered Parliament 27i years
ago. He has seldom had a walkover,
and has rarely had a big majority, but the
constituency has always remained faithful to
Jimmy, who was a bank manager there when
he first heard the call of politics. Northam
has only had three members since Westralia
obtained responsible government, and two
of them have risen to the Premiership. George
Throssell, who sat for the town from 1891
to 1901, was the first; he succeeded Forrest
when Federation arrived, but his term of
office was brief.
“Burnelli”: A very lovable Australian was
Pat Sullivan, of “Felix the Cat” fame. I
first met him at the Christchurch (M.D.)
Exhibition, where he was doing business
with anyone who cared to pay two shillings
for a caricature of himself. Our next meet-
ing was in New York in 1911. Pat had
arrived two days before in an empty cattle-
boat from Liverpool, cheerful, brimful of
fun and confidence —and broke to the world.
His first job in New York was drawing comic
postcards, most of which he sold to Morris
and Bendheim for £2 each, with a royalty of
so much a hundred after the first thousand.
He also altered and redesigned posters for
several cinema concerns, and tried his hand
on scenarios which were never accepted. In
those days Bud Fisher’s “Mutt and Jeff” had
captured America, and Pat spent a lot of
time trying to think up something that would
be equally catchy. It wqs his wife who gave
him the idea of “Felix the Cat.”
Campbell Jones, formerly managing editor
and a director of Associated News, who left
after the big row with Hugh Denison, is
going to London to manage the co.’s office
there. He knows the job; it was one he
filled in the co.’s early days. Sydney Snow,
who left the board of the “Sun” at the same
time as Campbell Jones, is also paying a
hurried visit to London ; and people are con-
necting it with Doidge’s visit to Australia
and the vacancy they see for a second evening
paper in Sydney.
Because Norman Lindsay had so much to
do with setting up the Australian Book Pub-
lishing Co., it has paid him the compliment
of chposing his “Saturdee” as the first to be
issued from its Endeavour Press. “Saturdee”
will be published this w'eek. A new book of
verse by “Banjo” Paterson will closely follow
it; and thereafter there should be a steady
flow' of two new books a month.
The council of Vic. Koyal Agricultural
Society has re-elected as president Col. C.
E. Merrett, who has served since 1915 and
did the honors at the special Royal Show at
Flemington in 1920, when Edward P. was
here. He will have an even bigger job when
the centenary exhibition is staged next year.
The Knoxes have done more for sugar
refining in Australia than any others, but
Thomas Scott ought to be better remembered
as the father of the industry. lie got his
knowledge of the business in the West Indies,
where his family had an estate which he was
sent to manage; some trouble there in which
he was swindled sent him to Australia, and
he decided to test his opinion that this
country would grow sugar. While he was
making his preparations he had a shot also
at tobacco; but finally he got his sugar-
presses to work at Port Macquarie. H'e pro-
duced the goods all right-—this was in 1817—
but he didn’t have the means to carry on;
and half a century passed before the next
man tackled the job.
“Good old Piddo” is back in the N.S.W.
courts, and his first appearance in an appeal
was before a young Acting-Judge, ,T. R.
Neild. The decision went against Pidding-
ton, K.C., whereupon he asked the Judge to
state a case. The Judge wouldn’t. Counsel
pressed him. The Judge stood pat: “No,”
he said, “the law is too clear to admit of
doubt.” His Honor probably enjoyed the
situation, for Johnnie Neild was one of
the brightest boys of Sydney High School
in the days when Pid. (not yet Piddo) Was
still remembered with affection as a master.
The near-octogenarian knight Edward
Wittenoom, now visiting Sydney and Mel-
bourne, has Parliamentary experiences that
go back years farther than those of any
other Australian. It is close on half a
century since he was first returned to
Westralia’s old Legislative Council, part
nominee and part elective. He stayed there
only a few years, but he was back in the
remodelled Council, where he still sits, in
1894. The veteran —to whom the sobriquet
of “Ten Foot Ned” clung for years as a
relic of the alluvial troubles at Kalgoorlic
when he was Minister for Mines —is a grand-
son of Westralia’s first colonial chaplain.
S. R. Whitford, S.A. Premier Richards’s
brother-in-law and Chief Secretary in his
Government, came from Mioonta too —Oswald
Pryor, the perpetrator of this drawing, is
another brother-in-law. Whitford is one of
S. R. WHITFORD, Chief Sec. of S. Aus.
the S.A. Labor members whom the party
expelled for supporting the Premiers’ Plan ;
but there is a strong movement afoot in
S. Aus. to forgive them their trespasses, and
re-admit them.
Walter Henry Barnes, who died in Bris-
bane on Sunday, served Queensland well,
and the Labor Government gave him a State
funeral. Barnes was born at Castlemaine
(Vic.), whither his parents came from
Sussex (Eng.), 74 years ago. He went to
Queensland young, and he and his brother,
G.P., built up a flourishing business there.
Ex-Treasurer BARNES ( Q .) as Low
saw him.
Walter (“Bishop”) entered Parliament as
M.L.A. for Bulimba and won his way to
office in half a dozen years. He served under
four Premiers, Philp, Kidston, Digby Den- ,
ham and Moore. He was Treasurer when
the Denham Government was outed in 1915
and Labor began its long innings; when the
15 years of Labor rule had ended he returned
to the Treasury, member for Wynnum now,
as Moore’s right-hand man. For 25 years
lie was president of the Y.M.C.A.
Just completed his 54th year with the
Bank of N.Z., Henry Buckleton, who joined
the Sydney branch at 14 in his native city.
He was transferred from Melbourne to
Hamilton (M.L.) in 1892, and rose steadily
until he was appointed general manager at
Wellington in 1919. A knighthood came
his way three years ago.
M. J. Solomon, just dead in Adelaide, was
a fine old survival from last century. H'is
father was a long-ago mayor of the city and
M.L.C. Moss Judah was born in Brisbane,
but lived in S. Aus. all but two of his 89
years, except for a bit of auctioneering in
the N.T. about 1873, when he was a member
of the first Darwin district council. He was
president of Adelaide synagogue for half a
century, and leaves 12 children.
Promotion is mostly a slow business on
the staffs of our big penitentiaries, but D. R.
Jones, Westralia’s new Superintendent of
Prisons, has risen from the ranks to the
topmost place in little more than a dozen
years. After seeing the war through', he
joined the Fremantle prison staff as a guard,
and has already filled many responsible
positions. The present super, succeeds A. T.
Badger, who held the billet for 15 years.
Lord Lovat, who died on Saturday, aged
61, was one of the richest of the Scottish
Catholic peers. He began his military career
as a Life Guards subaltern and, with his
languid, smiling manner and handsome
moustached face, he looked the part to the
end. Australian soldiers saw a Tot of him in
the field, both in South Africa, where he
fought with his Lovat’s Scouts, and on Galli-
poli. He had a side-interest in Australia as
a Rhodes trustee, and was usually to be met
at Australian gatherings in London. His
ancestor Simon, the 11th baron, fought for
the Pretender and was beheaded on Tower
Hill for treason. The heads of this interest-
ing family are the hereditary chiefs of the
powerful Highland Fraser clan.


SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
Advice to Investors.
The Committee of the Sydney Stock Exchange desires to issue a warning to
investors against parting with shares, scrip, securities or investments in response
to the persuasions of canvassers or travelling salesmen without first obtaining the
advice of their brokers, and particularly against investing in new companies or
concerns or exchanging their existing investments for shares, bonds or other
interests in any new company or concern without first obtaining such advice.
Members of the Stock Exchange will furnish advice free of any charge to investors.
H. R. WONSON,
Secretary to the Sydney S'tock Exchange,
113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. BRANQAUER & Co.'s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
SEVEN
PRIZE MEDALS
m
WORKS: BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND
These series of Pens
neither scratch nor
spurt.
They glide over the
roughest paper with
the ease of a soft
lead pencil.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Public is warned to beware of
imitations of these famous Circular
Pointed Pens.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.
Written Nominal
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1928.. 124,192 10 p.c. = 105,000 527,522
Hidden reserves disclosed, £424,261.. 951,783
Fixed assets written down, £377,522.. 574,261
1929.. 188,228 15 p.c. = 157,500 21,000 583,989
1930. . 50,360 | 5 P-c^yj 50 - 000 j 72 00 597>149
Previous years’ taxation, etc., £128,101.. 469,048
Written off shares in other cos., £65,606.. 403,442
Loss.
1931.. 67,670 Nil - 335,772
Contingency reserves included, £102,200.. 437,972
Written off shares in other cos., £47,674. . 390,298
Reserves disappear, £30,456 . . . . 359,842
1932.. 55,844 Nil 303,998
The Central Mine at the Barrier shut down
at the end of 1930, when lead fell below
£l5 per ton, and was not reopened until
April, 1932 ; meanwhile it cost the co. nearly
£llOO per week for maintenance, etc. At
Cockle Creek the super, and cement plants
were idle for the first nine months. of the
term, too, and at the zinc works at Seaton
Carew (Eng.) the only thing done was the
roasting of concentrates. Still the year’s
loss of £55,844 was less than that of the
previous term (£67,070) ; the first things of
their kind since the beginning of this cen-
tury. The past year’s figures leave out
of the reckoning an unexplained reduc-
tion of £30,456 in reserves, and £47,674
written off the book value of the co.’s interest
in Nantymwyn Mines, Ltd. (£65,606 was
struck off at the previous balance), reduc-
ing that asset to £5OOO. These mines
were bought in 1925, when lead and zinc
were fetching £35 and £36 respectively, the
iaea being to ensure supplies of spelter at
Seaton Carew after the Board of Trade con-
tract ran out in 1930. But the mineralised
zone, which is practically barren of silver,
proved to be too poor to work at a profit
with metal prices anywhere near present
levels; so the subsidiary has gone into
liquidation.
Altogether reserves were bitten into for
£133,976 during the year, and the more or
less liquid surplus, including the co.’s interest
in the Welsh property, slipped £125,217: —
1929. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Liquid
assets . . £1,233,001 £1,097,991 £739,222 £621,042
Liabilities 105,684 * 75,017 22,681 29,718
Surplus.. £1,127,317 £1,022,974 £716,541 £591,324
Liabilities do not include the figure at which
disputed taxation has been assessed
(£80,000). Eliminating this and the book
value of the Welsh property, surplus liquids
were equal to 16s. lid. per pref. share when
the books closed.
The next table shows the output at Cockle
Creek: —
Cement
Sulph. Acid, Superphosphates, Clinker,
tons. tons. tons.
1926 .. 18,333 34,833 24,328
1927 .. 20,770 33,879* 42.884
1928 • • 20,541 37,919* 68,375
1929 . . 22,997 43,954* 52,985
1930 .. 16,507 34,351* 38,338
1931 . . 15,944 30,138* 17,876
1932 . . 8,340 8,104* 7,535
♦High grade.
But business was not so slack as the last
line of the table suggests, for there were
large accumulated stocks to draw upon.
Actually the year’s sales of super. (26,404
tons) were 4537 tons better than in the
previous year, while cement dispatched
(14,335 tons) was only 2876 tons lighter.
Still, sales were less than half the capacity
of the plants. An encouraging feature is a
reduction in costs of 2s. 9d. per ton for
cement and Is. Bd. per ton for super.; further
reductions are expected to. follow use of the
co.’s new shell-lime deposits in the Hunter
River.
It is largely to mining operations that
shareholders have to look for satisfactory
divs. During the three months’ stoping at
Broken Hill 31,522 tons of crudes were
raised at ss. 9.6 d. per ton less cost than
in the previous term, and 31,270 tons were
milled for 4918 tons of lead concentrates and
7461 tons of zinc concentrates. The metal
contents and percentage of recovery com-
pare as follows:
Leadies.
Silver. Lead. Zinc.
„„„„ i 1,333,395 oz. 16,312 tons 2,147 tons
1929.. , 53.7 oz. 65.7 p.c. 8.6 p.c.
j 1,216,773 oz. 16,407 tons 2,004 tons
1930 - 48.9 oz. 65.9 p.c. 8.0 p.c.
) 693,761 oz. 9,113 tons 912 tons
1931 - 53.5 oz. 70.3 p.c. 7.0 p.c.
1932.. 291,315 oz. 3,604 tons 250 tons
( 59.2 oz. 73.3 p.c. 5.1 p.c.
Zinc.
Silver. Lead. Zinc.
) 272,671 oz. 1,563 tons 18,635 tons
1929. . 7.3 oz. 4.2 p.c. 50.1 p.c.
j 186,943 oz. 1,062 tons 16,366 tons
1930 --) 5.7 oz. 3.3 p.c. 50.2 p.c.
J 74,856 oz. 395 tons 9,043 tons
1931.. | 4.4 oz. 2.3 p.c. 52.7 p.c.
1932.. ) 39,561 oz. 189 tons 3,923 tons
( 5.3 oz. 2.5 p.c. 52.6 p.c.
Despite the small throughput, last year’s
treatment costs (14s. 4.56 d.) were over 6d.
per ton lower. Ore reserves are put at
691,130 tons; thus there is about five years’
work measured up at the normal rate of extrac-
tion. With costs, metal prices and exchange
as they are there is little, if any, profit in
the mine. Prospects depend chiefly upon the
recovery of metal prices, which, in turn, is
interwoven with world-trade developments.
Statistically, zinc is in a stronger position
than lead.
There is £1,050,000 of capital to be fed,
including £600,000 of 10 p.c. non-cum. prefs.,
which participate with the ords. in any
higher rate and have priority as to capital.
The market prices the pound prefs. at 11s.
3d. and the 15s. paid ords. at Bs.
Sydney Ferries, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 52,981 9* p.c. = 50,502 2,479 21,168
1921.. 49,570 8 „„ 47,141 2,429 23,597
1922.. 58,244 8 „„ 48,733 9,511 33,108
1923.. 50,964 8 „ „ 49,867 1,097 34,205
1924.. 56,184 8 „„ 49.867 6,317 40,522
1925.. 55,086 8 „„ 49.867 5,219 45,741
1926.. 54,242 8 „„ 49,867 4,375 50,116
1927.. 50,488 8 „„ 49,867 621 60,737
1928.. 60,983 8 „„ 49,867 11,116 61,853
1929.. 46,281 8 „ ~ 49,867 58,267
1930.. 39,501 6* ~ „ 40,516 57,252
1931.. 28,739 6 „„ 24,298 4,441 61,693
Reduction in reserves, £4026 . . 57,667
1932.. 10,470 6 p.c. = 10,200 270 57,937
For over 60 years this co. had enjoyed a
monopoly of most of the traffic across Sydney
Harbor. But the bridge, opened in March
last, wiped out what used to be the co.’s
chief sources of revenue—the Milson’s Point,
Lavender Bay and vehicular ferries. How-
ever, to meet the position which thus arose,
fixed assets had been vigorously written
down and liquids accumulated, the public
being charged higher fares for the purpose.
Thus, with a little help from the sale of
property, the board has been able to return
£453,332 of capital, reducing the figure to
£170,000 in ss. shares. There has been a
shrinkage in the value of the assets of
almost every industry in the Commonwealth,
but few have been able to make extra
demands upon the public in order to pull
themselves out of their difficulties, as Sydney
Ferries has done.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows more precisely the recent history of
the co. :■—
1927. 1929. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £623,332 £623,332 £170,000
Liabilities .. 73,609 65,520 47,217 41,478
Landed property 115,072 42,820 37,260 28,434
Ship property 331,236 212,413 58,932 29,921
Wharves and
waiting-rooms 50,772 26,278 6,657 1,000
Plant & machinery 8,811 6,696 5,411 4,787
Fuel & stores, etc. 14,097 13,725 9,968 7,942
Shares in other
cos. .. 107,000 107,000 107,000 107,000
Sundry debtors 29,384 24,018 6,324 30,909
Public securities,
etc. .. 113,741 330,528 55,042 62,251
Cash . . . . 2,498 8,572 2,516 .2,271
Last year eight of the nine vehicular ferries
were sold—five to private buyers and three
to the subsidiary, the Harbor Land. and
Transport Co. One result was a gain of
£31,549 in liquids :
1927. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Liquids . . £145,623 £433,971 £63,882 £95,431
Liabilities .. 73,609 49,861 47,217 41,478
Surplus .. £72,014 £384,110 £16,665 £53,953
Thus, since £5739 was knocked off the
amount coming to outsiders, there was a
spring of £37,288 in the more or less liquid
surplus. Further growth of the surplus will
partly depend u.pon the sale of steamers still
in excess 'of the co.’s requirements.
Last year’s profit, which included nearly
three months’ trading on the runs wiped
out by the bridge, was put at 6.1 p.c. on
capital, and 6 p.c. was distributed; but no
hint was given as to what was struck off
for depreciation. There was an unexplained
reduction of £4026 in the insurance fund
(now £53,679), which may have some con-
nection with the loss of one of the hulks on
its way to Melbourne. Fares have been re-
duced ; but savings are expected from the
installation of automatic turnstiles and the
conversion of some of the fleet from ste.am to
Diesel power. Also there is the holding in
the subsidiary (in at £107,000), whose light-
erage and other services are to be extended.
In 1927 the pup paid 10 p.c.; a 5 p.c. div.
would be equal to 3.1 p.c. on the parent’s
capital as it now stands.
At 7s. the ss. paids return 4.3 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible backing
is 275. 3d., of which 6s. 4d. is surplus liquids.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1922 .. 41,700 10 p.c. = 29,200 12,500 12,699
1923 .. 29,050 10 „ „ 29,201 12,548
Assets written down .. £146,002
1924 .. 59,976 30 p.c. = 43,801 16,175 28,723
1925 .. 32,991 20 „ „ 29,201 3,790 32,513
1926 .. 28,617 20 ~ ~ 29,201 31,929
1927 .. 21,751 20 „ „ 29,201 24,479
1928 .. 18,546 13* „ „ 19,467 .. 23,558
Transferred from tax reserve, £lOOO.. 24,558
Loss. uedoit.
1929 .. 101,680 Nil 77,122
1930 .. 35,570 Nil 112,692
Profit.
1931 .. 3,063 Nil 109,629
1932 . . 3,902 Nil 105,727
This co., which has been in the squatting
business in the s.-w. of Queensland and
elsewhere for over half a century, has
never met with much luck. Divs. averaged
only 41 p.c. for the 23 years to the
end of 1923, when half the capital was
written off (reducing it to £146,002) to
cover amortisation of the leases. Then a
run of good seasons and high prices brought
some fat returns. Next, shareholders put
up another £275,000 to finance the purchase
of Quantambone, near Brewarrina (N.S.W.),
including 76,700 sheep off-shears. But
drought immediately gripped this and the
co.’s Queensland properties, both of which
were bare of feed at the time, and the bottom
fell out of the wool market. Thus a loss of
£101,680 in 1929 was followed by another
loss of £35,570 in 1930, and the board had
to go to its bankers and others for over
£151,000 in order to save the breeding ewes,
rams and young wethers.
For the last couple of years Nature has
been kind, and more, sheep have been shorn,
but low pi'ices have spoiled financial
results:—
( Sheep
On Books Wool Pro- Average
Shorn. Dec. 31. Bales, ceeds. per Bale.
1928.. 82,567 176,747 1887 £43,856 £23/4/10
1929.. 115,450 96,820 2534 38,627 15/4/10
1930.. 100,011 139,644 2298 25,300 11/0/2
1931.. 137,428 172,620 3826 44,081 11/10/4
1932.. 166,757 192,281 4626 55,719 12/0/11
Though last year’s gross earnings (£61,972)
were £3060 better, exes, took all but £839
of the increase, leaving a profit of only 1.6
p.c. on capital.
The chances of a dividend have been pushed
into the background by the deficit and the
size of the overdraft, which, thanks to the
allowance for depreciation, was reduced by
£15,799 last year, leaving it at £125,154
when the books closed. Here is the position
as the published figures show it:—
1924. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Capital . . £146,002 £243,338 £243,338 £243,338
Liabilities . . 912 151,689 144,389 128,612
Stations, plant,
etc. . . 78,743 192,522 178,685 165,271
Sheep, cattle,
horses . . 45,230 87,150 97,897 98,851
Wool unsold.. 810 1,900 77 760
Cash, etc. .. 109,789 2,085 3,438 3,341
Including livestock, the excess of liabilities
oyer more or less liquids (£25,660) was re-
duced by £17,317 during the twelvemonth.
The immediate outlook is far from bright;
the co.’s runs are dry, and some of the sheep
are on agistment. The 30s. paid shares,
which are covered by net tangibles with a
book value of 16s. lid., all in leases, etc..
have not an active market.
Hackshalls, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
1925.. 15,590 10 p.c. = 7,647 7943 10,072
Transferred to capital, £12,000 ) „ 0 ,„
1926.. 17,241 124 p.c. = 12,100 5141 ) 13
1927.. 15,722 12* „ „ 12,500 3222 6,435
1928.. 25,748 12* „ ~ 16,146 9602 16,037
1929.. 34,236 12* „ „ 27,083 7153 23,190
L6sS.
1930.. 2,982 2 „ „ 5,208 15,000
Written off investments, £7500. . 7,500
Profit.
1931.. 6,250 2* p.c. = 6,250 7,500
1932.. 7.500 2* „ „ 6,250 1250 8,750
Written off investments, £1250.. 7,500
The price war that led to the supply of
dole bread at per loaf less 8 p.c. dis-
count has been responsible for the worst of
the trouble; there are a number of small
proprietary concerns with lighter overhead
than the larger cos., and they fight desper-
ately for existence. This brought difficulties
from other directions, too, and the co.’s
general bread business suffered; many cus-
tomers objected to paying while
neighbors on the dole got the loaf at I jd. less.
At one period during the last term the co.
was selling bread at factory cost. More-
over, the industry is governed by old award
rates, thus giving inter-State and overseas
competitors an advantage in the export
markets, chiefly the South Sea Islands, where
Hardman Bros., the biscuit-making sub-
sidiary, has strong connections. So, despite
a drastic overhaul of the organisation, the
board could show a profit of no better than 3
p.c. on capital last year as against 2* p.c. for
the previous term and a loss of £2982 in
1930. That was after taking into account
trading results of the subsidiaries, the chair-
man says. _ The £1250 of last year’s earnings
that remained is to be struck off the book
value of investments, leaving reserves at a
nominal £7500 —the figure is subject to an
unspecified amount of goodwill.
Profits averaged 17.8 p.c. over the five
years to the close of accounts in 1929, and
a run of 12£ p.c. divs. was paid. During
the same period £170,000 of fresh capital
was gathered, raising the total to £250,000,
most of which has been invested in subsidi-
aries, over whose accounts the curtain is
kept drawn. Here is as much as the
parent’s sheet tells :
1925. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. £BB,OOO £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 1,032 23,708 16,804 37,804
Land, buildings,
i n v estments,
etc 84,095 255,625 251,783 255,057
Plant, etc. .. 1,534- 10,273 9,134 7,993
Stocks . . .. 2,217 8,614 6,896 5,197
Book debts . . 7,210 11,410 11,033 13,347
Cash, etc. . . 7,311 6,214 6,173 25,100
During the year £5605 was knocked off
the amount coming to sundry creditors (now
£11,199), and, when the books closed, the
board had gone to its bankers for £26,606,
of which £24,420 w T as held in short-term
investments —the co. intends to put up its
own flour mill on the property of a sub-
sidiary. The more or less liquid surplus
(£5840) slipped £1558.
Most of those in the trade have now agreed
to bury the hatchet. Still, with prices and
other things as they are, only moderate re-
turns need be looked for. Hence the market
prices the pound shares at 13s. 9d. as
against 16s. a year ago. The return at
13s. 9d. is 3.6 p.c. on a 2J p.c. div. basis,
or a shade over 5 p.c. on a 3J p.c. distri-
bution. Subject to intangibles, the scrip is
covered by net assets with a bank value of
21s. 2d.
Westralian Farmers, Ltd.
Bonus Nominal
T . _ . to To Re- Re-
Juiy, Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
1927.. 44,435 7 p.c. = 12,080 17,000 15,355 50,380
Added reserves, £7069.. .. .. 57,449
1928.. 34,796 7 p.c. = 13,522 12,000 9,274 66’723
Reserves drawn on, £13,312 .. .. 53,411
1929.. 10,341 Nil Nil 10,341 63,752
Bad debts written off, £15,458 .. 48,294
Loss.
1930.. 4,872 Nil Nil 43,422
1931.. 25,995 Nil Nil 17,427
Deficit.
1932.. 67,760* Nil Nil 50,333
♦lncludes bad debts written off.
As agent for the voluntary wheat pool the
co. handles over half the grain produced in
the State, and does a large wool, livestock,
dairy produce and fruit commission business
and trades on its own account as well. But
wheat overshadows its other activities and
dominates its finances. Therefore, the result
of the co.’s operations Reeds to be considered
in conjunction with these figures:—
Westralia’s Wheat Production.
Average Pool Average
Total per Acre, Price per Return
Bushels. Bushels. Bushel. per Acre.
1926.. 20,471,000 9.7 ss. Sid. £2/15/4
1928.. 36,370,000 12.1 4s. lOfd. £2/19/5
1929.. 34,000,000 10.9 4s. Ojd. £2/4/2
1930.. 39,081,000 11.0 3s. 7ld. £l/19/8
1931.. 53,504,000 .13.5 Is. lOjd. £ 1/5/9
1932.. 41,360,000 13.1 2s. B&d.f £l/15/7
1933*. 43,000,000 13.0 2s. 3gd.t £l/9/8
♦Estimate, flncludes bounty. JVaiue, Jan., 1933.
Good seasons, high prices and lavish credit
sent production bounding along. But the
collapse of prices brought a heavy crop of
bad debts ; and losses instead of profits have
shown up for the last three years. No
dividends to shareholders or bonuses to
clients have been paid since 1928.
The grower got more for last season’s
grain, but the crop was lighter and the co.’s
gross earnings for the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts fell away £32,439: —
Gross Profit. Exes. Net Profit.
1927.. £370,664 £326,229 £44,435
1928.. 340,809 306,013 34,796
1929.. 285,028 274,687 10,341
Loss.
1930.. 254,217 259,089 4,872
1931.. 264,830 319,180 54,350*
1932.. 232,391 249,244 16,853*
*Not allowing for reserve adjustments.
Thus the p. and 1. account shows a loss
£37,497 lighter than the previous year’s. This
was due to reductions totalling £34,433 in
ordinary trading exes. (£190,574), and of
£35,503 in the visible allowance for bad
and doubtful debts (£58,670). But there
was an unexplained reduction of £50,907 in
reserves, whereas £28,355 dropped into the
pot in the. previous year. Taking these
movements into the reckoning, the year’s net
result slipped £41,765, making the loss
£67,760.
The position so far as balance-sheet figures
show it is as follows:—
1928. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital. . £193,243 £212,567 £213,140 £213,502
Debentures . . 137,736 140,901 130,073 129,371
Overdraft . . 179,193 212,607 ( fiQQ
Other liabilities 259,493 622,587 ) 699,j4 ° 68 *- CO-
- etc. 92,575 130,612 132,686 159,946
Plant, etc. . . 60,354 62,188 62,183 52,313
Shares in other
cos. . . 16,120 48,570 59,008 36,728
Stocks . . 197,798 159,018 146,368 128,890
Debtors . . 490,494 8,18,640 644,232 585,492
Cash, etc. .. 11,709. 13,057 15,702 13,775
A mortgage of £34,200, hitherto deducted
from the asset, is now included with liabili-
ties. Assuming that the mortgage was un-
changed, the year’s contraction in outside
liabilities (now £813,973) was £49,840.
Debtors’ balances were reduced by £58,740,
stocks by £17,478 and shareholdings by
£22,280. When the books closed liabilities
exceeded more or less liquids, including
shares, by £49,088, a slip of £50,585 over the
twelvemonth.
Debtors’ balances are the key of the posi-
tion. They are largely in respect of mer-
chandise and other purchases, and partly on
account of advances against stored wheat.
Another good harvest,' planted at less cost
than its immediate predecessor, has just been
gathered, and prices are around last year’s
level. Much will depend upon the help the
co. gets from the Government, the banks
and elsewhere to enable it to carry the man
on the land until things further improve.
Hotel Sydney, Ltd,
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. ' Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1923.. 16,450 124 p.c.* = 15,387 1063 1,279
1924.. 15,252 10 „ ~,14,083 1169 2,448
1925.. 16,917 10 „ „ 13,000 3917 6,365
1926.. 16,723 10 ~ „ 13,000 3723 10,088
1927.. 14,653 10 „ „ 13,000 1653 11,741
1928.. 14,961 10 ~ ~ 13,000 1961 13,702
1929.. 14,026 10 ~ ~ 13,000 1026 14,728
1930.. 4,671 4 „ „ 5,200 14,199
Loss.
1931.. 2,150 Nil 12,049
Written off, £3OOO .. .. .. 9,049
Profit.
1932.. 533 Nil 533 9,582
*l4 months.
Too much notice should not be taken of
that run of 10 p.c. divs. After a nine years’
struggle, including five without a license,
divs. commenced in 1921. The scattering
of public loan funds gave profits a lift, and
capital was doubled in 1923 by a gift issue,
raising it to its present figure (£130,000) ;
assets were written up £65,000 for the pur-
pose.
About six years ago the premises were
remodelled and extended, and the board went
to its bankers for the money. Results
failed to come up to expectations, despite
boom conditions; still, enough profit was
claimed to pay a regular 10 p.c. till the
close of accounts in 1929. Now that the
tide has run out, the bank and other charges
have become troublesome, of course, not-
(Continued on page 16.)


These Rubber Shoes
saved a boys life!
1 lil
just as the
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulators
é
* This illustratioji
explains the Porosity
of the Willard Thread
Rubber Insulator.
Porosity simply means free flow of the bat-
tery acids through the insulator between each
positive and negative plate. The illustration
above shows clearly the tiny threads or wicks
which carry the acid through. There are
5,000 of these wicks to the square inch in the
Willard Threaded Rubber Insulator. This
means easier and quicker starting for you
under all conditions! Practically 85% of all
battery faults are due to the premature
failure of conventional insulators. Buy a
Willard Thread Rubber Battery.
save the life of the
Willard Battery!
INSULATION! . . . that s the job of the Willard Patented Threaded
Rubber Insulator. It must separate each positive plate of the battery
from the negative. The better it does this, the longer the battery lives!
That’s why Willard uses rubber as insulation!
When you buy a Willard Thread Rubber Battery you get this Patented
Threaded Rubber Insulator, which has an insulating quality higher
than any other insulator used! This Willard Insulator is so strong
that it actually outlives the plates! Yet is thoroughly porous, allowing
the battery acids to flow freely at all times —which means that the
maximum power supply is always ready.*
A Willard Thread Rubber Battery will give you real economy. You’ll
get quicker starts and better service under all conditions—longer
battery life —and your upkeep will be less! Ask your dealer about
the Willard Thread Rubber Battery!
ê
BATTERIES
STATE DISTRIBUTORS
Motor Supplies Ltd.. Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Townsville.
Brooklands Accessories Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Automobile Electric Service Ltd., Adelaide.
Westcott Hazell & Co. Ltd., Sydney and Newcastle.
Atkins (W.A.) Ltd., Perth.
Robt. Nettlefold Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
Tasmanian Battery Service, Launceston.


Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Coluson, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS.—Ask O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO., Collins House, Melbourne, and
Sirius House, Sydney, for advice regarding value
and marketing of rare minerals and metals. — Advt.
* Sic * *
For Sale.—Complete Roasting Cyaniding and Assay
Plant, about 15,000 tons of sands and slimes averag-
ing sdwts., recovering up to 90 p.c. Particulars
from A. C. Chappel (Newsagent), Peak Hill.
—Advt.
* H= * *
dP 1 n The Metallurgical Works of
A VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
PTY., LTD., at BENDIGO are specially
equipped for the treatment of REFRAC-
TORY GOLD ORES and CONCEN-
TRATES.
If you post a sample 6f the Ore or
Concentrate which you have for sale, it
will be assayed, and price submitted.
mil
AMICUS CERTUS IN RE INCERTA
'A sure friend, in uncertain times!
New policies issued in 1931:
£11,500,834
New policies issued in 1932:
£13,610,326
In this way does the community show its faith in the stability of the
A.M.P. There seems no need for further comment.
THE officers of the Society, out of their long experience,
believe that the best A.M.P. Policy for a man to take
out is under Table A. Under this policy the sum assured,
with bonuses, is paid to his heirs on his death. A man has to
invest less to secure an A.M.P. Table A Policy than he has to
invest to secure any other kind of policy.
Some men want to insure for their old age, however, and to
them the officers of the Society recommend the Table J policy
under which the sum assured, with bonuses, is paid when the
member reaches 35, 40, 45, 50, 60 or 65 years of age (which-
ever age is chosen), or to his heirs at his death should' that occur
previously.
Under both these Tables the total sum payable on maturity, i.e.,
the sum assured plus the bonuses, depends on the size of the
bonuses declared every year. A.M.P. bonuses have always been
remarkably large, but some men prefer to know exactly what
their heirs will draw, and for them the Society has a policy
called Table R. Under this policy payment of the sum assured,
together with a return of all premiums paid, is made to the
member’s heirs on his death. Think of it! Every penny paid in
is paid out, plus the sum assured!
Here are three A.M.P. policies that will bring security (and the
peace of mind that goes with security) to every man who invests
a few shillings a week in one or other of them. If you have
failed to make your own and your family’s future secure, write
to the nearest A.M.P. officer for particulars. They will be
gladly sent.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.1.A..
General Manager.
F. F. McBRYDE, C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A.,
Assistant General Manager. Actuary.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States
AMP
assets £86,600,000.
Gives best possible contract.
withstanding the reduction in interest, etc.
Last year’s gross earnings (£25,691) were
only £257 better. Exes. (£25,158, includ-
ing £1253 struck off to cover the cost of
renovations) were pulled back £2416, leav-
ing a profit of £533, an improvement of
£2683 on the previous year’s result. That
is leaving out of the reckoning £3OOO taken
from reserves and struck off the book value
of plant, etc., which had been revalued;
depreciation is always a heavy item in this
class of business.
During the year £5722 was snipped off
the overdraft: —
1925. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £130,000 £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Overdraft .. 19,125 45,334 45,084 39,362
Creditors .. 6,474 4,858 3,740 3,738
Buildings .. 137,373 164,349 161,641 158,999
Furniture, etc. 25,276 26,288 24,000 18,944
Stocks .. 5,184 3,674 3,010 2,582
Bobk debts, etc. 3,559 3,329 2,672 2,454
When the books closed outside liabilities
exceeded liquids by £38,064, an improve-
ment of £5078 during the twelvemonth.
The lease runs out in 1960, and a sinking
fund has been created; but the board lias
not yet been in a position to invest the
money outside the business.
The market, which paid 275. 6d. for the
pound shares a few years ago, now prices
them at Bs. 9d. The return at Bs. 9d. would
be 5.7 p.c. on a 2 \ p.c. div. basis.
Ware Exchange of Securities!
Efforts are being made to induce share-
holders in well-established concerns through-
out the Commonwealth and Maoriland to
exchange their scrip for paper in certain
new undertakings, says the committee of the
Sydney Stock Exchange. It has therefore
issued a warning to shareholders against
parting with their securities in response to
the persuasions of go-getters, without first
obtaining the advice of their broker, which
is given without charge.
The inducement usually offered by these
canvassers or travelling salesmen is the pos-
sibility of a better return to the investor.
This has a special appeal to the small in-
vestor; who wholly or partly depends upon
the return from his or her securities, the
income from which has, for the most part,
been greatly reduced by the slump. But this
should always be remembered; when high in-
terest knocks at the door, security, both for
capital and income, is very apt to fly out of
t.m window.
The N.S.W. Government proposes to in-
vestigate the process developed by Lyon
Bros., of Wallsend (N.S.W.), for the low
temperature carbonisation of Maitland coal.
Small-scale experimental work has indicated
that 1 ton of Maitland coal will yield 40
gallons of tarry oil and 13cwt. of smokeless
coke and gas. By distillation 25 gallons of
fuel oil can be obtained from the tar
oil. Many hundreds of methods of low
temperature carbonisation have been tried
overseas, particularly in England, where
a large quantity of slack coal can be obtained
cheaply. The financial part of the problem
has been to sell the coke residue and the
low-value gas. Without revenue from these
two items, the commercial success of the pro-
cess is not assured.
* H= * H=
Cracow United Options is pleased with the
result of Dr. Jensen’s prospecting work at
Reid’s Creek (Q.). The main lode has been
proved on the surface for 1600 ft. (the entire
length) on the eastern claim, and for about
half that distance on the western one.
Samples assayed up to 4oz. per ton; but
that doesn’t mean very much.
* * * *
Marble Arch, one of the most promising
shows at Lolworth (N.Q.), recently crushed
86 tons at the Towers for 370 z. 9dwt. The
sands assayed 7dwt. and the slimes loz. ldwt.
The show has not yet been fully tested. Two
shafts, 500 ft. apart, have been sunk 30ft. and
15ft. respectively in solid quartz, while cos-
teening shows the lode to be more than 30ft.
wide.
it * * *
A Brisbane syndicate has bought the
Golden Surprise, North Arm (Q.), for
£45,000. It has also taken an option over
the Golden Wonder, at which English in-
vestors have been nibbling.
Hs ❖ * *
At Charters Towers (Q.) tailing dumps
containing 3,000,000 tons are being bored on
behalf of a Sydney group. If values
approach 2dwt. per ton, it is proposed to
erect a cyanide plant to treat 1000 tons daily.
He if it H=
The Queensland Quicksilver Co. (Kilkivan,
Q.) is removing a sluicing plant from the
Stanthorpe district. It will be used to re-
cover coarse cinnabar from the Bloodworth
area, which is estimated to contain 800,000
c.y., worth 6s. a yard.
He He He
The rich shoot below the 1620 ft. level in
the Hercules, Bendigo, has recently shown a
steady falling away in values. Still, the
latest crushing was 203 tons for 1090 z., and
further payable ore is being developed. With
gold around its present figure there are many
years’ life ahead of the old mine yet. Another
4s. div. has been paid, making 15s
(= £45,000) since the new reef was found in
July last. The co. has £6300 in hand.
H: * :!= H=
At the Little 180, Bendigo, only 13oz.
was got from 82 tons taken from the 970 ft.
level of the Ironbark reef. This is not pay-
able, even with the metal at its present price.
There is a large make of stone on the 778 ft.
level, and a test crushing is being taken out.
At the recently unwatered Central Blue, no
more than soz. was got from 55 tons.
New Red, White and Blue, Bendigo, which
has been crushing 400 tons of 4dwt. stone per
week for small profits, has installed electric
pumps on the 920 ft. and 1700 ft. levels of No.
1 shaft. The spurs on the 1400 ft., 1500 ft.
and 1700 ft. levels are to be developed, and
output lifted to 500 tons weekly.
H= * * *
Boring at Allendale (Vic.) has disclosed
three deep alluvial gold leads at 160 ft., 120 ft.
and 130 ft. respectively. Two leases, together
1500 acres, have been pegged, and a
shaft is to go down immediately. Another
1600 acres on the former Berry Consols
Extended is also to be bored. The Madam
Berry used to be the principal mine at
Allendale; it yielded £1,550,000, and paid
handsome dividends.
The Tasmanian Government is looking
into a scheme for draining 2000 acres of
swamp land on the eastern bank of the
Adam River, on the Adamsfield osmiridium
held. The area has been found metal-bear-
ing where tested, and is considered rich
enough to keep 200 diggers employed for a
period of five years. The reclamation work
could be completed during the summer
months. At present there are 150 diggers
at Adamsfield; with osmiridium at £lO per
ounce they barely make a living. The field
was discovered in 1925, and up to the end
of 1931 produced 10,9030 z. of metal valued
at £235,300.
$ %
A rare nickel mineral, gersdorfiite, has been
found at the Confidence Saddle, the highest
point on the tramway between Zeelian and
Williamsford on the West Coast of Tas-
mania. This mineral, not previously re-
ported in Australia, is a sulpharsenide of
nickel, steel-grey in color. A few miles
from the site of the present find are the ex-
tensive copper-nickel lodes at Five Mile. These
are not being worked. It is unlikely that
the new deposit will prove of immediate
commercial importance.
* * * *
Mt. Bischoff Tin (Tas.), which ceased
operations late in 1929, has pleasantly sur-
prised shareholders with a dividend of ss.
per share (£3000). • The money came
from the many tributing parties working
small rich makes and the alluvial flats. This
div. brings total distributions to £2,845,000
on a capital of £29,600. Last previous pay-
ment was in June, 1927.
* * * *
Australian and General Asbestos, formed
i.i 1928 with a capital of £90,000 to work
asbestos deposits in the Pilbarra district
(W.A.), has put up the shutters. There
will be nothing for shareholders, and little,
if anything, for creditors, who figure for
£11,342. When work began asbestos was
worth £l7O per ton in London; it is now
around £4O.
it * * *
After allowing for depreciation, etc.,
Golden Horseshoe (New), W.A., showed
£28,950 of profit last year as against £11,770
in 1931. Owing to disputed taxation no
divs. have yet been paid, but the market
hopes for a distribution during the current
term. The co. recently returned Is. per
share, reducing paid capital to £165,000 in
3s. shares. Its dumps originally contained
2,859,000 tons, of • which approximately
1,210,000 tons have been passed through the
plant for a shade over a quarter of a million
pounds’ worth of gold. At the present rate
of treatment there is about years’ work
ahead. There is a credit of £38,111 in the
p. and 1. account, and finances are comfort-
able.
* * * *
Although the Mt. Jackson area, 100 miles
north of Southern Cross, is an old one, it
never produced anything so promising as the
lode discovered recently 20 miles north of
it by Clamp Bros. In 1896 Jackson was a
live camp, mine managers driving to and
from Southern Cross in four-in-hands, any
conveyance more modest being considered no
class. This sort of thing soon brought about
the obvious. Adelaide has got well into
decent finds by way of options.
$ * * $
Some rich parcels have recently been put
through the Ora Banda battery (W.A.).
From Grant’s Patch one crushing of 120 tons
averaged 3Jmz,; another of 70 tons, 4^oz.;
and a third of 10 tons, 3£oz. From Christ-
mas Patch 90 tons gave a little over loz.
per ton.
* * * *
Broken H'ill Prop, is erecting an experi-
mental plant with a capacity of 40 tons daily
on the Enterprise, Kalgoorlie. A new air
compressor is being installed.
*!* «!»
A London mining expert has been sent
to Westralia to inspect the Nullagine con-
glomerates, which A. E. Morgan and others
failed to mine at a profit.
$ $ * ■ *
Associated Gold Mines (W.A».), after pro-
viding for a 6d. div., had £2607 left. Man-
ager Duncan McAulay says that with things
as they are he can see 12 months ahead.
"it * 3s *
Hansel Mundy is developing a gold-bis-
mutli lease at Humbug Scrub (S. Aus.) . A
shaft is being sunk on a narrow reef carry-
ing rich seams of kaolin about Jin. thick.
* * 3: 3=
Over 100 prospectors are at work at Cape
Colville and Mercury Bay, in the Coroman-
del district (M.L.). One party is opening
up a mine in the Kaimarama Valley, not
worked for 30 years, and samples have aver-
aged loz. per ton. A supervisor has been
appointed to advise the prospectors.
3s 3s 3= *
The Freshford Co.’s dredge at Waikaia,
Southland (M.L.), has been completed, and
will commence operations early this month.
The area is close to that operated profitably
by the Muddy Creek Co. over 25 years ago.
3s :1s 3: 3:
Three Malay tin-producers had a fair run
last year. Changkat Tin Dredging has de-
clared a div. of 6d. (sterling). In view of
the satisfactory cash position of the co. a
bonus of 6d. a share has also been declared.
Kampong Banjul, in the year to June 30
last, earned £7461, and paid one sixpenny
div. Production for the period was 562
tons of tin oxide from 3,500,000 c.y. of
wash. In the year ended May 31 Rawang
Concessions showed a net profit of £23,508,
and paid £15,000 in three divs. of 6d. each.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Under what law are unclaimed
balances in Australian banks paid to the
Governments concerned? (2) Has a deposi-
tor whose deposit has been paid to one of
the Governments any redress? —37ll.
(1) Each State has its own Act. In
N. S. Wales it is the Unclaimed Moneys
Act of 1917. This provides that banks shall
keep a register of unclaimed moneys in
accounts which have not been operated upon
for six years. Particulars are then pub-
lished in the “Government Gazette”; if the
money is not claimed within 12 months
thereafter, it is paid ,to the State Treasurer.
(2) Yes. On proving his right to the money
an_owner may recover it from the Treasurer.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
R.H.H.: (1) Impossible to say; distant fields
may look green, but local conditions need to be
carefully studied. For instance, there may be tod
much or too little water, or stores may be difficult
to obtain. Victoria has been well prospected for
the last 80 years; still, many fossickers are obtain-
ing good returns at the moment. (2) The Depart-
ments of Mines in the various States publish infor-
mation for the guidance of prospectors in the States
concerned... .J.R.McK.: One of the more solid offices
will probably show you the best results in the
long run. Get the prospectuses of the big mutual
offices and the M.L.C. and compare them;
note, by the way, whether the rates are
“next birthday” or “nearest birthday”.... Indig-
nant : Both are a gamble at long odds. Wiluna,
Lake View, Golden Horseshoe, Sons of Gwalia,
Bulolo and New Misima are worth consideration....
Usury: (1) It is trust money. Owing to their
exemption from certain taxation, it may be difficult
to get a better net return than is to be had from
Consols. (2) Impossible to say what will happen
in connection with exchange during next five years.
Exchange is one of the barometers which register
the political, financial and economic health of one
country in relation to another... .W.R.G.8.; It is a
long-term speculation ; if you cannot afford to lose,
keep 0ut....W.C.: A sound swap; Australian Pro-
vincial Assurance is worth considering. .. .8.C.W.:
Don’t know much about the mine. Write to Kuss-
man and Co., Adelaide-street, Brisbane. .. .J.S.L.;
Do not know (a), but (6) is struggling along, and
apparently has paid no divs. yet.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND.
Are We a Nation of Squealers?
Dear B., —It can hardly be denied that
many of our countrymen have squealed
about the English bowling, and it is worth
while to ask “Have we not been forming the
habit of squealing?” During the Dang
regime cables from Australia were sus-
piciously like squeals. They pictured the
Australian community as an impotent Sind-
bad who couldn’t shake off Old Man Lang.
And has not our attitude to the depression
been very like a squeal at times?
The Australian trades union movement,
the union of people with other common in-
terests (such as employers), and our experi-
ments in socialisation and price-fixing may
be developing a nation of squealers. Real
or fancied interference with the unionist’s
“rights” gives him grievances. The expres-
sion of grievances by means of stop-work
meetings, protests, appeals to tribunals and
strikes gives opportunities for squealing.
The farmer who receixms a bounty squeals
when he fears that he may lose it.
Our isolation from other peoples, our his-
tory, and our system of education make us
dangerously susceptible to the weakness of
magnifying petty grievances and expressing
our annoyance in squeals. Our vaunted
purity of stock is in itself a weakness, for
we have little appreciation of the points
of view' of other peoples. Our emergence
as a nation at a time when public control
of education, railways and other services
was considered desirable, and our consequent
dependence on State assistance to a pecu-
liarly great extent, have sapped our self-
reliance. In most countries the squealer is
an impotent babbler; in Australia squealing
has too often brought success and reward. —
Yours, Jon Gee (Vic.).
Crimes by Men on Bail
Dear B., —Talking of the pension to
the postal assistant who was blinded, you
say that “the man who was charged was
out on bail” and add: “It is believed that
half the serious crimes reported in Sydney
ai’e committed by desperate offenders whom
soft-hearted magistrates have let out on bail.”
A man is presumed innocent of a crime until
it is proved that he has committed it; and
a man has a right to his personal liberty
until it appeal’s that his detention is neces-
sary for the upholding of the law. Thus
when a magistrate commits a man for trial
be has one ground, and one ground only, for
interfering with the man’s liberty, and that
is. the necessity for ensuring that the accused
will appear to stand his trial,in due course.
Indeed, it is only in cases of treason and
felonies and of a few serious misdemeanors
that the magistrate is allowed to refuse bail.
Now, what I believe to be the true reason
for offenders committing serious crimes
(vhilst they are out on bail is this: It is
the practice of the Judges, in cases like the'
one in question, t 0 impose concurrent sen-
tences of imprisonment where more than
one offence has been committed. A man
who has been committed for trial on a serious
charge and who is out on bail, knowing well
this almost regular practice, can see that he
has, practically speaking, an “open order” to
commit a really interesting sort of crime,
and to he not one whit the worse off for it;
and it often happens, unfortunately, that he
acts accordingly.—Yours faithfully. F. H.
Sugar in the Wrong Places
_ Dear 8.,—0f course it is absurd to say
that sugar should never have been grown in
southern areas. Like other industries, the
production of cane had to begin somewhere,
and it naturally began nearest to population
and transport conveniences. Many of our
soundest industries are being carried on
where some other industry did the pioneer-
ing, and it is along these lines that stability
of production has been reached. The rich
lands of the Clarence, Richmond, Tweed,
Coomera and Maroochy districts chiefly
grew sugar in earlier days, but they were
presently given over to dairy and mixed
farming; and there need be no question now
of rendering unprofitable Queensland sugar-
farms valueless—-it is merely a matter of
likewise transferring their productivity to
a more natural sphere and permitting expan-
sion of sugar-production to take place where
conditions are most suitable. It may be
true that many southern sugar-farmers are
not earning tho' basic wage, but is this any
reason why they should be prohibited from
transferring their labors to more profitable
lands in the north? Or is it any reason why
a system of inflating land values by assign-
ment restriction should be abolished? If
the ban on expansion of the industry in
North Queensland were removed and we
ceased to . ignore its natural economic
advantages, fhe position of southern farmers
would soon adjust itself, and for the first
time in its history stability would be possible
within the industry.—W. K. Allen (Q.).
Unsuitable Sugar Lands
Dear Bulletin,— Because of the low figure
realised for our exportable surplus, the price
of sugar is unnecessarily high to home con-
sumers. There are apparently only two
thmgs that justify this: (3) the employment
ot Europeans in what otherwise might be a
thinly populated N.-E. coastline; and (2)
the value of exported surplus helps to main-
tain the precarious balance of our overseas
trade. But couldn’t the land now growing
cane be used to produce an exportable pro-
duct giving about equal employment, which
could be sold at a profit and to the better
advantage of the nation? I have in mind
beet and mutton. Cattle when killed at N.Q.
meat-works after travelling by road or rail
are certainly not prime. Graziers, too, be-
wail that they are unable to compete with
South American beef because of the methods
of fattening in that country, including stall
feeding. Why not try fattening bullocks on
the rich coast country with specially sown
fodder ? The Lower Burdekin irrigation
centre, now a big sugar district, within 50
miles by road or rail of two large meat-
works, is an ideal place for such a venture.
The soil is fertile, an unending supply of
water for irrigation is assured, and the neces-
sary pumps and machinery are already in-
stalled. Here, if anywhere, an experiment
should be successful. If such an undertaking
were a success, the advantages should be
many. Especially N.Q. would exchange an
unprofitable for a profitable exporting indus-
try, with little or no cost to the nation;
the reduced loss on our total sugar produc-
tion would lead to reduced prices to the
consumer; and land allegedly unsuitable for
sugar-growing would be utilised profitablv.
—Yours, Red Wul (Q.).
Machinery and Unemployment
Dear Bulletin, —“Does machinery cause
unemployment?’’ It depends on how the
new machinery is used. Any machine
which lowers the cost of production and
thereby reduces the cost of living causes
unemployment in this land of political para-
doxes. A new method of making, say, bread
reduces the number of employees by half and
produces bread at a lower cost than before.
Immediately these lower prices are reflected
in the cost of living index-figure compiled by
the Commonwealth Statistician, and wages
are automatically reduced from' the first day
of the following quarter. If wages are to
be reduced each time an efficient manufac-
turer instals a new machine, wdiat advantage
does the community gain?
The natural resultant of lower costs should
be increased wages. If a man can produce
twice as much as he did before, his labor
should be twice as valuable to his employer.
It is. But while the Australian unions in-
sist on fostering the inefficient worker, the
employer instals another machine and sits
back to prepare another ease for a further
reduction of wages. If the workers are not
to have their wages reduced each time
machinery becomes more efficient, but are to
reap the full benefit of each succeeding reduc-
tion of costs, they must accept the principle
of payment by results, or piece-work.—-
F. A. L.
Machinery and Its Uses
Dear Bulletin, —It: is not the machinery
that causes unemployment, but the way it is
used. The inventor wants money, so he hawks
his patent, and it is bought up by manufac-
turers. They do not say, “Now we will take
a fair profit from this machine, and all our
employees will benefit also, by working-
shorter hours.” They cannot do that, because
they fear competition. So they say, “Now
we can reduce our payroll by’ 20 p.c. and
pocket that money. Or we can undersell
our rival who cannot buy a machine, and
throw him and his workers out of employ-
ment.” And that is what they do. Ad-
mittedly the public gets the goods a little
cheaper, but it has to pay a shilling in the
i to provide a dole for the people who
are thrown out of work.
Here is the true use for machinery. Make
every machine you can, and put it into ser-
vice. Give the manufacturer his fair profit,
but let the rest of the community benefit,
too, by shorter hours; but see that there
is work for all. Bet the young people seek
healthy pleasure in the sunlight and fresh
air, instead of artificial excitements in the
late evenings. Then you will see more minds
turned to invention, and machinery will come
into its own and do all the things that God
did not mean men to do. The financial end,
the book-keeping, will take care of itself.
And you will see Communism die, because
there will be no need for it.-—Yours, Aebeep.
Theory and Fact
Dear B., —From the “Soap-box” (B.
l/2/’33) you say:—
When a currency is inflated, as ours is, a man
doesn’t have to work twice as hard to get twice
as much money; he gets twice as much money as
a matter of course, but it buys only half as much
as it formerly did.
I know that most theoretical economists
hold the same view, but it does not fit the
facts. I can buy with an Australian f
to-day more boots, hats, clothing, meat, fruit,
office and house accommodation than I could
three or four years ago when the policy of
deflation was in full blast. Possibly if I were
to take my £ to Yokohama or Chicago I
would not get much for it, but our cur-
rency is not intended for circulation outside
Australia. Some imports we must have (but
nothing like the volume we are to-day receiv-
ing) ; these, however, are not paid for with
Australian currency, but with the wool,
butter, wheat, lead, etc., which we export.
There are lots of widely-accepted economic
theories that are refuted by the facts. This
is only one of them. Freetrade is another.
—Yours, Arthur Griffith.
Shire Taxation
Dear Bulletin, —I am a N.S.W. farmer
and grazier, and I know that local taxation
—shires, P. P. Boards, etc. —is taking far
too much, until not half of us can meet the
denatands. I have worked out some figures,
taking 1911 as a basis, because values of
land, wool and wheat are back to that
period:—
Increase,
1811. 1930. p.c.
Population, N.S.W. 7,700,000 2,508,537 46
„ Shires 601,840 695,100 15
U.C. values .. £94,189,939 £168,853,695 78
General rates .. 463,501 1,470,046 217
Total revenue . . 881,033 3.967,858 350
„ expenditure 832,206 3,666,100 340
„ liabilities 67,827 2,673,025 3800
So while our shire population has increased
by only 15 p.c., unimproved cap. values
have been put up 78 p.c. and general rates
217 p.c. There are 188 shires with offices,
clerks, engineers, staffs, plants, etc., and
overhead costs might be materially reduced
by amalgamation. Landholders simply
cannot afford luxuries and it’s up to the
Government to revise the L.G. business
to meet conditions. —Yours etc., Valerin.
Tax Cruelties
Dear Bulletin, —For 18 months I was
unemployed. Then between 15/10/’32 and
31/12/’32 I earned as a casual sugar-farm
employee £32 3s. Gd. Of that I paid £1 3s.
9d. relief tax, calculated at 9d. in the £
because my rate of pay was 2s. per hour.
For the six months to June 30 next my
earnings will probably be less, giving me
a total for the year of under £lOO. On this
relief tax will be chargeable at 3d. The
overcharge for 10 weeks will in that case
be practically double the true amount of
tax payable for the whole year—Bs. Id.
I can, however, apply for a refund in July
next. At the end of November last a mate
applied for a refund. To date he has not
received even an acknowledgment. In a nut-
shell, I have loaned, free of interest for at
least 12 months, almost a day’s wages. It’s
not much as money goes, but considered in
conjunction with my earnings for two years
—£32 3s. Gd. —it’s .a devil of a lot.—Yours
etc,, 2878 (Q.).
Education in Queensland
Dear B., —A mathematics paper for
scholarship candidates, aged fourteen, set
last December, was such a tough collec-
tion of catches that it would have floored
half the teachers of the State—all the result
of the Labor party’s appointment of young
adherents to jobs that only men who have
been through the mill can hope to carry out.
Theorists with miles of degrees, psycho-
analysts, so-called educationists, can make
big noises and bring forth brilliant sylla-
buses that in theory change children of
thirteen into adults of thirty, but an educa-
tion scheme must be carried out by working
teachers, who do things, not dream them.
And any system of promotion based on any-
thing but teaching must react disadvan-
tageously on the whole service.
As the failure of State education hits the
poorer classes so hard, I suggest that Mr.
Forgan Smith interest himself in the 1933
examination papers, which set the standard
for the whole elementary course, and submit
a few suggested papers to world authorities,
in the south or overseas, instead of allowing
delicate minds to be bruised and battered at
the end of the year with monstrosities as they
were in 1932. —Yours, Fed. (Q.).
KING CRICKET.
"Sire, there much work to do. Would your Majesty be to good as to order your subject, to go back to their jobs for a little while?"


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibba”
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Waltzes from Vienna’
King’s ;••• “ c ynara”
State Movies and Talkies
+.
Half an Hour in the Museum
Frith and the Showman had made one of
their periodical pilgrimages to Hyde Park
to see if the Archibald Fountain was get-
ting acclimatised, and found the waters in
play, and splashing all over the legs of the
nude gentleman who does the St. Stylites
“A constitution proof against rheumatism.”
act on the central pedestal. Luckily his
constitution of bronze is proof against rheu-
matism, but the same cannot be said of
Frith. So when it suddenly started to rain .
with a vehemence that made fountains works
of supererogation, he looked wildly round
for the nearest port and then scurried across
to the Australian Museum, followed by the
Showman. The Museum, possibly because
it contains such a vast number of things that
once were alive and now are dead, and is
pervaded by a smell something like a church
and something like a drysaltery, is not a
cheerful place, but having entered its por-
tals the visitors decided to make the best
of it, and to praise anything in which they
could find anything to admire.
They allowed that the totem pole which
graces the room of entrance and exit is a
decent effort. A person who looks as S. M.
Bruce would look if he permitted himself
to get angry is standing at the head of
another individual whose visage registers
abysmal gloom. Possibly a Polynesian radical’s
version of a parable of the Bloated Capital-
ist and the Downtrodden Proletarian. The
thing is painted, however, in very depressing
colors, a characteristic, apparently, of all
primitive art. More lively are the Stuffed
Lions. “Hop” used to be very fond of
drawing dignified lions, and he made a jolly
good fist of them too. But when his “Under-
study” went in for this branfth of zoology
and produced lions which were funny from
the top of their pompadour to the last flick
of their tail, serious students of the Animal
Kingdom quarrelled with his notions of ana-
tomy. The Stuffed Lions of the Australian
Museum fling the criticism back in the teeth
of the critics. They are as skinny, as arch
in expression, and as weird in pose as any-
thing that capered through the pages of
The Bulletin in days of yore. From lions
this museum abruptly turns to the subject
of buffaloes, which wear their hair in the
same way, a conjunction that suggests evolu-
tionary possibilities that Darwin never
dreamed of. The tigers, which have their
habitat round a corner, are pathetically hope-
ful in expression, and Frith made a note of
the fact that their noses are bent, whereas
lions have snouts of Grecian straightness.
He found most to interest him, however,
in the representations of the human dial
made by various savages. South Sea Island
masks are evidently intended to terrify, and
the recipe seems to be to make a mask
as much like a skull as possible and to beetle
the brows. Some of the effects are a bit
nightmarish, but there is a lack of origin-
ality and the colors are fearful —dirty
browns, brickish reds and awful blues. It
is incredibly easy to represent the human
“Skinny and arch in expression.”
countenance. The Easter Islanders and
other very primitive coves carve something
resembling a flattened football, and leave a
wedge-shaped projection for a nose. No
matter where the eyes and mouth are placed
the result has expression. The Egyptians,
who had been to art school a million years
longer than the Polynesians, couldn’t put
half as much vim into their human portraits,
and their cats are an insult to feline intel-
ligenee. However, all these dead-and-gone
craftsmen did their best, and probably the
best of them were no more satisfied with
their products than we are. Five thousand
years hence people will go prowling round
museums smiling tolerantly at our gramo-
phones, radio sets, aeroplanes and motor-
cars, and wondering why on earth our fur-
niture and attire —if any examples endure —
were so extraordinarily clumsy.
The drawback of the Australian Museum,
as compared with most others, is that it has
very few intimate historical touches. .Cap-
tain Cook’s sea-boots, Governor Phillip’s
snuffbox, Sir Joseph Banks’s pet flowerpot,
meerschaum pipe smoked by Dirk Har-
tog and the skull-and-crossbones flag flown
by Bill Dampier would make a nice little
nucleus for a collection of this sort, but they
are conspicuous by their absence. There
isn’t even a nutmeg-grater once the property
of Queen Anne. Indeed, the only really edu-
cational thing jn the place is a display of
florins, dinkum and crook, . that gives
pointers on dodging the brummies. . So, the
rain having ceased, and the sun having burst
forth, Frith and the Showman went on their
way and saw the Australian Museum no
more.
# * #
“The Crime at Blossoms,” by Mordaunt
Shairp, staged by the New Sydney Reper-
tory Society at its Kent-street playhouse,
suffered in its presentation from insufficient
rehearsal. Blossoms is an old-world cottage
on the outskirts of an English village. During
the absence on holidays of its owners, Chris-
topher Merryman (William Gates) and his
wife Valerie (Alice Bolger), it is rented by
a man and a woman (mysterious and
beautiful), who are murdered in a glassed-in
annex to the drawing-room, the corpses
being found by Mrs. Woodman (Dorothy
Whitely), a charwoman. The owners return
to the cottage to find it unaltered except
for a few significant bloodstains which
the charwoman has been unable to remove.
Valerie wants to leave the place for ever, but
her carefree, spendthrift husband decides to
remain—he makes his living in the garden.
Jean Duncan as Marie-Anne in “The
Command to Love.”
Attracted by lurid press descriptions of the
crime, there are many inquisitive visitors.
This gives Valerie a great idea. She pro-
poses, with her husband’s half-hearted con-
sent, to capitalise the crime. A charge is
levied upon all persons desiring admittance
to Blossoms. They come in battalions. The
local paper launches a bitter attack upon
the Merrymans, and calls for police inter-
ference. Valerie’s retort is to pile on the
horrors. Dressed in flowing robes and start-
lingly made-up, she gives a highly dramatic
re-enactment of the double killing. Then
there comes along a mysterious stranger,
who proves to be the dead woman’s husband
and who restores Valerie’s sense of decency.
In the hands of Scott Alexander and
his players, what is meant to be a tragic
satire was turned into something bordering
on farce.
The Australian Theatre Society, whose
little theatre, the Tom Thumb, is at 117
King-street, Sydney, exists for the produc-
tion of Australian plays and it presented one
on Saturday night—“Oh! That’s Different,”
by L. C. H. Shave. The piece, which was pro-
duced by C. L. Cunnington, deals with the
efforts of Joan Warrender (played by Noela
Marienthal) to reform her father, who con-
ducts orgies at the Night Owls’ cabaret.
As a first step she has a long conversation
on Havelock Ellis lines with a housekeeper,
Martha Gudgeon (Dulcie Deamer), who
brandishes a feather-duster while emitting a
flood of Freudian remarks. Joan then sets
out to shock the old man into good be-
havior bv pretending to mix with bad com-
pany herself. She employs an actress, Paula
Merryn (Nona Sattler), who kicks over the
traces to such an extent that even Joan’s
papa is horrified. Not so her brother Tony
(Reginald Bolton), who wants to marry the
lady in the second act. The third act, which
is short, unfolds a capital denouement. Dulcie
Deamer did not look her part, but there was
a lot of spirit in her acting. Misses Marien-
thal and Sattler had their dramatic moments
The men gave an impression that they could
do considerably better in further represen-
tations.
v- # *
At Sydney Royal Schubert’s “March Mili-
taire” continues to be beefed out nightly by
the orchestra, a sign that “Lilac Time” is
still undergoing revival. It dies next Friday,
and the Gilsullivan season closes on the
Saturday with “The Gondoliers” at the
matinee and “The Mikado” at night. At
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs” shows no
sign of wearing out its umptieth welcome,
and at the Cri. Theo Shall each evening
obeys “The Command to Love.” Jim
Gerald’s revue “He’s In Again” is respon-
sible for a nightly epidemic of guffaws at
the Haymarket Tiv.
Business continues brisk around the box-
office at Melb. Royal, where. “Waltzes from
Vienna” has danced into its tenth week. At
the Comedy a mainly Australian co. con-
tinues to excite interest in “While Parents
Sleep.” Ernest Rolls’s achievements in
Campbell Copelin as the War Minister in
“The Command to Love.”
human horticulture are attracing connois-
seurs to “Honi Soit” at the Princess.
* * *
Melbourne’s last opportunity for seeing a
stockbroker voluntarily return to nature will
occur at the King’s on Friday, when “The
Breadwinner” will cease earning a crust for
J.C.W. On Saturday “Cynara” will be pre-
sented.
Shadow Shows.
The rule that a fine character-actor is
liable to be awfuli as a featured star is
emphasised, again in the St. James’s new
production, “Flesh.” Wallace Beery is a
champion wrestler with a heart of gold. Men-
tal age : say, eight. Karen Morleyy-released
from gaol to give birth to a child—visits
the German beer-garden in which he works,
and soon has him in her toils. When the child
arrives after the inevitable marriage Beery,
tiptoes into the exhausted mother’s room
with a huge toy elephant. He is like that
in everything; a hulking, grinning cretin,
sentimental as an Edwardian playwright,
talkative as a schoolgirl. Every conceivable
indignity is put on him by his wife and
Ricardo’Cortez. Cortez is the’wife’s lover and
the father of her child, but Wallace, like the
loony ho is, believes him to be her brother.
A stage arrives when the wife finds Beery’s
bleary-eyed drivellings unendurable, and
arrives with the baby at Ricardo’s apart-
ment.- It looked to the writer as if some-
thing was going to happen at last, but when
he managed to concentrate his vagrom atten-
tion on the proceedings again she was back
home and being maundered over by Beery
as before, so he left in despair. False pathos,
cheap humor, melodramatic situations and
Leslie Victor as the French Ambassador in
“The Command to Love.”
slow tempo are the main defects of the pro-
duction. The photography is excellent, and
the shots of the wrestling bouts are astonish-
ingly realistic.
The other St. James’s items are good, and
particularly “The Old Bull,” in which
Thelma Todd and Zasu Pitts figure as a
female Laurel and Hardy team:.
* # *
The first of the Sydney Regent pictures is
“Once in a Lifetime,” a cruelly funny satire
on Hollywood. Jack Oakie, Aline MacMahon
and Russell Hopton are playing to empty
houses in a dud vaudeville act when the
talkies begin. They decide to teach Holly-
wood elocution, and are employed by the
German Jew who owns the Glogauer studio.
Oakie becomes a director, and marches from
strength to strength as a result of his
bloomers. One of his feats is to get two
scenarios mixed up and produce the wrong
picture, only to have it acclaimed as a master-
piece by the critics. He is offered a free
aeroplane provided he buys 2000 others, and
he does so with Mr. Glogauer’s money. The
deafening Hebrew is infuriated until he
suddenly realises that he has cornered the
whole Hollywood supply, and can name his
own price for ’planes to makers of aviation
pictures. The cheery, imperturbable _ fatuity
of Oakie contrasts delightfully with the
truculent bone-headedness of Gregory Ratoff
as the illiterate movie magnate, and the stock
parts (Sidney Fox, witless ingenue; Onslow
Stevens, neglected playwright; Louise
Fazenda, gushing press-girl, etc.) are well
done. The fact that most of these screen
jibes at Hollywood were originally stage
plays inspired by Broadway jealousy de-
tracts a little from the admiration which
their ruthless objectivity inspires, but they
are notable achievements all the same. There
is something epic about such indifference to
ridicule.
“Airmail” is publicity for U.S.A. aviation
in the guise of melodrama. The scene is the
Desert Airport, the theme the alleged deter-
mination of Uncle Sam’s fliers to deliver the
mails on time though hurricanes rage and
death threatens. It begins with the incinera-
tion of a pilot who crashes at the airport
in a fog. Other pilots go and come in rain-
storms, snowstorms and blizzards. Pat
O’Brien, flashest of them all, does stunts
that would get him cashiered in any army
and sacked from any private-enterprise con-
cern ; but the American postal service seems
to have standards of its own. One of the
casualties is the husband of a girl to whom
Pat has been making love. Pat goes off
with the lady, speeded bn his way by a
knock-out punch on the jaw from the hero.
However, he is sound at heart, and when
the hero crashes in the mountains Pat stunts
to the rescue. Some of the shots look even
more miraculous than those in previous
American flying pictures.
V
The chief defects of “The Ringer,” at
Sydney Mayfair, are inferior lighting and
delayed action. Also, it is stagey. But the
acting is excellent. Patrick Curwen, who
has played the police doctor in the stage
version for years, is naturally word- and
gesture-perfect, and Gordon Harker is
almost as good as the Cockney bntler whose
vice is pinching silverware. The London
settings—police stations, slum streets, river-
side offices and homes —and the glimpses of
the Thames will bring an ache to many an
immigrant heart. “Deadlock,” the other,
Coral Brown as Manuela in “The Command
to Love.”
is one of those tedious, badly-acted and
generally inane productions that make well-
wishers of British films despair. The hero
avoids being punished for the crime he didn’t
commit because a movie of the actual crime
was providentially taken by a camera that
ran amok !
* * *
Sydney Empire is offering a programme
of first releases this week. In “Central
Park” Wallace Ford and Joan Blondell play
a jobless couple who meet at an alfresco
breakfast on stolen saveloys. Ford _is be-
friended by a kindly copper (Guy Kibbee),
but Miss Blondell falls among thieves. The
thieves pose as detectives, and Miss Blondell
is incredibly innocent enough to believe them,
and act as their tool. However, Ford comes
to the rescue. In “Hey, Pop,” Fatty
Arbuckle reappears. He is no different from
the Arbuckle of the silents, and the children
seem to like him as much as ever.
* * *
“Hell Bound,” at the Haymarket, has Leo
Carrillo in his usual role —the gangster boss
who falls for the little lady, kills his rival,
marries and is about to leave, the racket
when he goes for the “long ride,” leaving
his wife to be cared for by an honest and
beautiful young man. A pleasing show in
Theo Shall as Gaston in “The Command
to Love.”
snite of its stereotyped story- Carrillo 18
streets ahead of the usual gangster chief,
and Harry Strang makes his lieutenant a
'‘'Tim 1 McCoy is° th? reason for “ The X es Jj™
Code” • when he comes to town bad men
reach for their hats. His Larwoodian, speed
on the draw earns him the Ashes of the
Wild West, viz., the gyurl (Nora Lane) and
the ranch which her rascally stepfathei has
tried to steal. . This is a real Western ; not
once does a Ford rob Dobbin of his job.


I
g»
.
m
tmm
tmU
\
mk
:
I
k
M
W
A
wm
A
■
p»»* ?iin(w*pj » ,
'v j
SPORT...
O'tdxiooAo
4 £/?_.
Aup&v LlUja,
pxlljp, JtmJuM41£xL . . . .
PRESTENE WITH HAND EMBROIDERED CtOX 7Tl PER PAIR... PLAIN 5 A PER PAIR
tn LYLESTRA PLAIN 4/11 PER PAIR


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP ------- - £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,G00 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Sa fe Rentals on application.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy g
surprisingly large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your
death. By taking out an endowment policy you can insure against your own a
your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Most Solidly Progressive of the Younger Offices.
Has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review o
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,’ 30/3/ 32.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: Ocean House, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
E J MOONEY, Managing Director.
P J. RYAN, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: 475 Collins Street, Melbourne; c - dara! ; E n eSl tl & r« Si Secretary.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 29 King William Street. Adelaide ; F. C Lock, Re. Smltlf ßesident Sec.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Warwick House, St. George’s Te.rac I .t T .1. Smith, Ke.me
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the Mates. _ ■
ABORIGINALITIES
ROW'S
EMBROCATION IN USE
OVER 100 YEARS
SPIT OUT, PLEASE!
DENTIST: “Well, well, you are a stranger! What do you require—a filling?”
SANDY (who has come to pay a three-year-old bill ): "Nae, mon, worse than that. It’s
an extraction.”
“Theo Dolite”: The Maori recognises
numerous -ordinary obiects as holding super-
natural powers, 'not necessarily evil, but
needing all care and respect. Such things
are tipua, and a common form is a drifting
log. Most lakes of the country have had, ,
many still have, their well-known tipua. On
a windy night of rain the shore-dwellers will
say, “Hark to the tipua singing as he goes,”
and another stick goes on the fire. I was
once on survey at Lake Rotoaira, beneath
Tongariro Mountain, with two Maori lads
and an Irish chainman. Rubbing along the
beach in the small wind-waves was a dry
totara log, a real godsend for pegs. Kelly
unshipped his namesake and cleared for
action. But the kaupapas got wildly excited.
“Leave it, leave it alone !” they yelled. “It’s
a tipua!” We laughed, but they so earnestly
pictured the dismay of the elders and ex-
plained how tlie tipua travelled all over the
lake visiting the old settlements (varying
winds, of course) that I gave in. Not so
Kelly. “Well, if lie’s a tipua,” said he,
“watch me take a piece out of a tipua’s
stern,” and he whanged the axe into the log.
The Maori boys went dull grey but said no-
thing. Within two weeks I was away to
a township doctor with a poisoned arm, and
there Kelly found his love-sworn waitress
had flown with a travelling carpenter. The
Maoris said we got off lightly.
- * * * *
“O. W. Waireki” : I asked Henare if he
considered his brother Moko a suitable em-
ployee for a dairyman near by. The native
shook his head. “One time he got sacked
from te rubbish cart,” he explained. “He
was too proomin’ dirty.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; The Minchin family. who run
Adelaide Zoo, recently sent to Toronto an
ant-eating porcupine from the strictly-pre-
served Flinders Chase on Kangaroo Island.
The Canadians report having received two.
No previous case is known of the odd egg-
laying mammal hatching out a young one
while in captivity.
“Tiger”: Rather a gruesome experience
fell to the lot of two fishermen recently grap-
pling oil' a South Australian beach for the
bodies of a drowned yachting party. They
saw a huge shark basking on the surface,
and when they approached it dived into a
patch of weed in the shallow water. As
they watched it reappeared with the fcody of
one' of the drowned men in its mouth and
calmly cruised about on the bottom, much
in the fashion of a dog seeking a place to
bury liis bone. Attacks were made on it
with grappling irons and oars, but the shark
sought refuge on the sand with his booty.
Disturbed at last by a grappling iron, it
relinquished the body, which was then
hooked up to the surface. The shark came
with it, attempting to regain possession, but
it was landed in the boat. Still hopeful,
the brute followed the boat, and only gave
up the chase when close inshore.
“Ahbo”: The Maori has always had an
intense passion for bis native soil and the
keenest sense of ownership. The Native
Land Court is still his major preoccupation.
Claims arc based on conquest, marriage ties,
hunting and fishing rights, etc., but the
main argument is always the “fire of occu-
pation.” To one
Court at Lake
Taupo long since
went Taitoko, or
“Major Kemp."
as he was known
on the British
side in the Maori
War. The cause
of argument was
the division of
the South Taupo
lands dominated
by the inland
peaks just south
of the lake. Tai-
toko and his
Wa n g anui fol-
lowers claimed by
alleged conquest
and the usual
occupation rights.
The Taupo chief
R'oronuku (this
namem e a n s
“swallowed by tin’
earth,” and was
taken to com-
memorate t h e
overwhelming of
his father and an
entire village by
the landslide near
Tokaanu in 1840)
heard him out
with rising im-
patience. Th e n
lie broke loose.
“Who are you
that talk of your
fires of occupa-
tion? Show them
to me then. You
cannot, for you
know they do not
exist. But 1 wiil
show you mine.”
And lie pointed
south across the
great lake to the
snowy tip of
Ngauruhoe with
a lazy plume of smoky steam gleaming in the
sun. “There is my fire of occupation, lit by
Ngatoro, my original ancestor, and never out
since. On that enduring flame I rest my
claim.” To the Maori mind the wit and
force of the argument were unassailable and
it had its weight with the Court. Taitoko
got no land.
* ❖ ❖
“II.K.”: The men of the outback, now-
devoting much time and labor to exterminat-
ing rabbits, would feel like grabbing rifles
and looking for a blank wall at sunrise if
there was a reasonable opportunity of locat-
ing the author of the following advertise-
ment in the “S.M.H.” of March 21, 1862
Rabbit stealing, £5 reward. Whereas it has
come to the knowledge of the undersigned that
certain people are in the habit, on moonlight nights
and early mornings, of shooting rabbits on his
property at Cook’s River, a reward of £5 is
hereby offered for such evidence as will lead to
the conviction of each person so offending. The
rabbits have been imported and taken care of at
great cost.
“Bugliunter” : Australia is still a land of
surprises for the botanist and naturalist.
Some time ago an American party spent a
year in the North Queensland ranges behind
Cairns collecting for Harvard Uni. Recent
reports from the U.SiA. state that many
plants were collected not previously known
to exist in Australia. Some of them were
far from being Inconspicuous either, one
being a violet from the Daintree River which
was as big as an ordinary tree. Another, a
new genus, was a flowering vine of the mag-
nolia family, which the world knows Usually
as a large free. Another one was a laurel,
a family not previously located in Australia,
though one was found in Maoriland many
years ago, and later specimens were located
in the New Hebrides and New Caledonia.
“Yerti”: The heat was intense, and
patches of heavy sand made the going very
hard. I had long since ceased to perspire,
and was so thirsty that I was unable to
moisten my lips. My swag seemed an
unbearable weight. When I had reached
the limit of my endurance and had de-
cided to throw it away I spotted the
well in the distance. The previous after-
noon I had left Tennant’s Creek telegraph
station for the Kelly well, 30 miles distant.
I had a three-quart waterbag, and when I
camped, after doing about 20 miles, much
of it through heavy sand, little more than
a quart remained. I unrolled my swag and
lay down for an hour or two’s sleep after I
had hung my waterbag on a near-by mulga-
tree. When I awoke flies were buzzing
around in millions. I was very thirsty, and
found that it had leaked, and only a couple
of mouthfuls remained. I drank them, rolled
my swag and set off. When I reached the
well I staggered over to the troughs, which
were empty and contained hundreds of dead
birds. 1 looked into the tank, which was
also empty and stinking with dead birds. I
“MANY A TRUE WORD”
“Heigh, Missus—are yer taking the children for an airing?"
climbed to the top of the well, and then dis-
covered that the windlass had been thrown
off by drovers, who had been using the whip,
and had not been replaced. It was impos-
sible to work the whip, as it was too heavy.
Then it was that I became panicky. For
a moment I thought of sliding down the whip
rope to the cool depths, where I could drink
and drink and drink. I knew that I was
so exhausted that in all probability I would
be unable to climb the 60 feet back to the
surface, but possible death below was
better than agony and certain death on
top. With an effort I pulled myself to-
gether and tried to think It suddenly,
dawned upon me that I could cut my blanket
into strips, knot them together and let a
billycan down the well. It was no sooner
thought of than done, and that water, brack-
ish though it was, was the finest drink I
ever tasted.
* « * *
“Snowy” : London Zoo recently saw a queer
happening. A white fallow stag which had
been reared from birth with the herd goi:
into a fight with another of the ordinary
dappled brown color. Though they had
never before taken exception to the odd man
out, the whole herd turned on him, and,
after chivvying him round the enclosure,
pushed him into a pond and drowned him.
In wild life, the albino does not seem to be
objected to by his fellows. White magpies
and crows are not uncommon in Australia,
but they seem to live in amity with their
cobbers. A white kangaroo which was re-
ported years ago in Queensland regularly
travelled with a mob of reds until humans
shot him. In this London case perhaps
the color-line question intruded. Many
American boxers, for instance, will associate
with darky fighters, but trouble comes when
they are asked to meet them in the ring.
“Plankton”: A pair of solemn, heavy-
browed dark eyes stare through a small
convex glass pane. A black moustache and
beard such as were worn 50 years ago or
more are visible beneath them. The man’s
neckwear also is in the fashion of the late
’seventies, but the contours of his features
have faded into ghostly obscurity. The
vanity of many men is gratified by seeing
their photographs in the daily press; but
it is a strange idea for a man to have his
portrait placed upon a family tombstone.
According to a later inscription, he died 3 1
years after carrying out his unusual notion.
The grave is to be seen in Dutton Park
Cemetery at Brisbane.
A WHIFF OF SANDALWOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It brings me back no memories ecstatic
Of bygone east-of-Suez journeying,
Of ivory joss and temple Asiatic
And Buddhist priest—and all that sort
of thing.
It strikes no chord, it gives no hint or
handle
For dreams of immemorial Cathay,
This unexpected whiff of burning sandal —
It merely whirls me back to W.A.
I do not sniff again the fragrant censers
Or thuribles of Europe’s storied fanes ;
My fancy flits to camps beside condensers
And waggons crawling slow through scrub-
clad plains,
To grizzled prospectors and rushing diggers,
Tinned dog, tin dishes, swags atop of drays.
And various other incidental figures
And features of those roaring, rousing
days.
Aye, smells than sounds or sights are far
more certain
(Forgive me if I paraphrase the rhyme)
To conjure up the past, to lift tin; curtain
Of years, to make a mock of space and
time.
It takes me back to days when, spitethe
hunger
For gold, the dreariest spot seemed green
and good.
And all the world was two-score years the
* younger.
A single whiff of burning sandalwood!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The “Keepdry”
GUARANTEED
OILSKIN
RAINCOAT.
Not just a shower-proof Coat, but
a serviceable Oilskin that carries
our guarantee for one year! Made
of Japparra Silk in Black or Yel-
low. Protective front, storm col-
lar and cuffs, and made double
throughout. Send Height and
Chest Measurements. Obtainable
in two styles:—
Walking, 79/6; Riding, 84/-
Send your Order to Desk S.B.
PIKE
BROTHERS, LIMITED,
IN QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE;
And at Longreach, Toowoomba, Townsville.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
iwonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRITISH
BRAKE LINING
MEETS MODERN CONDITIONS OF
HIGH-SPEED DRIVING.
Ask your Garageman to reline with RAYBESTOS
f< Silver Edge.”
Representative: J. ARNOLD, GR.O Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
If any illustration in "THE BULLETIN" takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: SO5 QUEEN STREET
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. ■.. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
_ . £2,250,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin”
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who wili quote you price for the original.
“A.H.8.”: The moa still lives in the
Maori’s thoughts and expressions. He burns
a koromiko stick and the sap sweats out of
the wood. It is. the “fat of the moa.” Long
ago, when the bird was much' eaten, the flesh
was so tough that only a koromiko fire was
considered potent enough to fit it for the
feast. Koromiko thickets on the edge of the
heavy bush were a favorite habitat of the
moa. The birds wore definite wide trails
THE MAN WHO COULDN’T GO CROOKED.
LEVI: “In business a man must be honest. Yesterday der bank
cashier give me ten pounds too much, und I divided it mid my
partner at vonce.”
from their bush shelters to the edges of
near-by swamps or lagoons, where they found
tneir favorite food, swamp grasses and water
plants. Maori hunters hid themselves along
either side of these trails while beaters
raised the feeding quarry which were speared
as they fled homeward. The spears, of
manuka or maire, were long enough and so
rasnioned that they brushed on the scrub
along the trailside and broke off in the body
of the bird. The birds always roamed in
pairs, never in a flock. A moa’s nest was a
large heap of toetoe, raupo, or similar vege-
tation, the eggs lying on top in the centre.
The round hillocks of refuse collected on one
side of the cultivations to-day are called
“moas.” A hapu, or tribe, that has been ex-
terminated or has died out is termed “lost
like the moa.” One bird, long surviving the
great fire that presumably wiped out his
brethren, was the legendary occupier of a
mountain cave, where he was guarded by
two giant tuataras and fed on air. Young
women in love are called hinemoa (moa
maidens), since in that happy state they
live on air. The crow Kokako was the
moa’s jackal and often betrayed him to the
hunters. His mo-o-a, mo-o-a, can still be
heard in the wilder bush districts.
* * * *
“FY7”: That doubter who questions
whether the Australian native knew of bar-
racking in its present sense doesn’t know
his abos. (B. 8/2/’33). In his palmy days
there was no more inveterate “chiacker” —
another word worth tracing to its source—
than Binghi. Hunters returning unsuccess-
ful, inexpert throwers of spear or boomerang,
sheiks who had been contumeliously spurned
by the objects of their affections and others
in unfortunate case could always expect a
good-humored barrage. The leg-theory type
was confined to the bucks engaged in a duel,
or to leaders of war parties engaging in
single combat in front of the troops they com-
manded. Both the principals and their audi-
ence took part in the preliminai-y invective
before joining in battle. Rival parties of
gins hopping into it with yam sticks were
generally given the palm in this respect.
X s]< X
“Carramba”: The first white cockatoo re-
corded in history appears in a recently-
published log of a voyage made by Mendana in
15t>7, when one was captured in the Solomons
and taken back to Mexico. Unfortunately,
just as the ship was nearing the Mexican
coast, Cocky was converted into soup in
an attempt to save the life of one of the
officers who was very ill with malaria. It
is a pity, for the Spanish tongue is said
to be the. finest vehicle for ground and lofty
swearing in existence, and had the foAvl been
spared to learn it he might have made an
even higher reputation for himself than so
many of his Australian relatives have done
in the Anglo-Saxon tongue.
x x x x
“Willeroo”: Interest has been revived in
bushrangers’ plants by a discovery in the
old haunts of
Ben Hall. The
yarn long cur-
rent was that
he had hidden a
keg of gold and
a gun filled
with sovereigns
in a cave. The
keg and the gun
were found the
other day by
two persistent
searchers, but
there was noth-
ing of value in
them. A legend
of a similar
cache is con-
nected with the
curious forma-
tion called the
Boiler Rock,near
Bigga(N.S.W-).
Once, when
desperately
wounded in a
brush with the
police, Frank
Gardiner was
hidden there-
a b o u t s and
looked after by
s y m p a thisers,
and the story
runs that he
buried a thou-
sand ounces of
gold in its vici-
nity. After his
banishment from
the country, and
while keeping a
saloon in San
Francisco, he
sent a man
across with a
letter and a
map to an old
friend at Bigga
to recover the
gold on shares.
The two men
months, but failed to find the plant. Hun-
dreds of others have searched around the
Boiler Bock since then, but, so far as is
known, without success,
* * * *
“Cap’n Flint”: While all this fuss is
being made about the Alsatian dog, one won-
ders that the savagery of the parrot tribe
has not attracted public attention. One of
its members recently escaped from its cage
in Sydney, and when its master, from whose
hand it had fed on countless occasions, at-
tempted to retrieve it, the fowl fastened on
his nose with its beak. In the struggle the
ladder which the master had mounted fell
some feet to the ground, and the ungrateful
MORE STATE COMPETITION .
WELFARE-WORKER : “And what brought you here, my poor man?”
GAOLBIRD: “Socialism, Mum. The Government made the same kind of notes as I
did — and, o’ course, theirs were a bit better.”
bird seized his opportunity to bite a piece
out of his rescuer’s finger. Writer once
knew a cockatoo which escaped from custody
on a Queensland cattle station one somno-
lent Sunday afternoon, and ruined a dozen
stock saddles hanging under the stable ver-
andah before he was discovered; and there
are many other instances of wanton and
malicious mischief on the part of the greatly
overrated bird. As to character, the less
said about the parrots the better. They are
indissolubly linked with the days of the
pirates, and to-day their favorite associates
are sailors and other vagrom and dissolute
persons. Their liking for bad company is
only excelled by their predilection for'bad
language. One has only to look into a
parrot’s eye to see the evil soul peering out
of it.
* * * *
“Booraby”: I have seen the dingo put up
a good fight against a tame dog of his own
size, but I have never come across two
dingoes in conflict. Warrigal doesn’t rough
and scruff like the domestic animal. Neither
does he make a noise about it. He dodges
and watches cunningly, and whenever a
chance offers he slips in swiftly and slashes
with dagger-like fangs. The bite is a run-
ning cut that lays the skin open'like a knife.
He also aims to cripple his adversary by
grabbing the paw and crunching it in a
quick bite. lie is an astute, calculating
warrior, who snaps and bites without a
growl, nor does he utter a whimper when
savage teeth are tearing into him. But he
soon realises when the odds are against him.
I saw three dogs run down a dingo one
morning near a reedy swamp which he had
been trying to reach. Warrigal made only
a feeble attempt to' defend himself, and in
a few seconds he was stretched out on the
ground. I marvelled at the quickness of the
kill; but when I returned that way a little
later he was gone. He must have been very
little hurt. As soon as he made out he
was dead the attackers left him.
* * * *
“The Hatter”: “Calvert” (B. 18/l/’33)
asks about Princess Alexandra parrakeets
Ihe bird rejoices in the name of Polytelis
alexandrw; the body is about 9in. in length
slimly streamlined; the tail 12in. long
spread fanwise in flight. The predominant
colorings are the most delicate shades of
pmk and green. Readily tamed and most
affectionate in captivity, it is a shy breeder
When the eggs are laid, the cock bird must
be removed from the flight before he gets a
chance to destroy them. If the eggs are
left with the hen, she must be watched, else
the young will be evicted from the nest with
fatal results. Simon Harvey, of Kensing-
ton Gardens, S. Aus., has reared five young
this season. Two eggs were placed under
a broody hen Bourke parrakeet, which now
has a bonny pair of twins that completely
dwarf her. Five youngsters were brought
out under the natural mother, who tossed
two out of the nest. The three remaining
were taken from the nest and hand-reared,
now being sturdy little fellows. They live
on the seeds of grasses and herbaceous
plants, preferring spinifex. In the wild
state this parrakeet is said to emulate the
lizard by lying on a stout branch of a tree
when at rest. Those I have seen have
perched on small limbs and twigs in the
regular fashion. They are very rare now.
* * * *
“Uramao”: A present from Auckland to
the London Zoo of a collection of keas has
been attracting great interest there. He’s
an amoosin’ cuss, is the Maoril'and lamb-
killing hawk, and has many admirers, though
he is anathema to the sheep-farmer. Mum
Ivea is a watchful parent over the attach-
ments made by her growing family. I once
saw a young male kea leave his mother’s
side on a tree branch, lured away by the
blandishments of a female of his own age a
few branches away. Mum watched the de-
parture and subsequent cordiality of his
reception. When matters had progressed
far enough in her estimation, mum raised
herself like an old duchess gazing through
her lorgnette, made a swoop, caught the
young hussy a biff in the bustle and tumbled
her off her perch. Then, turning to her son
with a withering eye of reproof, she mut-
tered something that completed his dis-
comfiture.
* * sfc
“Murrungurry”: Queensland also has an
authenticated duel in its early history (B.
25/l/’33). This was a quaint affair, fought
between two beche-de-mer fishers named
Christenson and Dillon on Forbes Island.
The pair had been doing well, and by way
of celebration had shipped a keg of rum
from Thursday Island. The fighting spirit
soon disturbed the wonted equanimity of the
camp, and the row developed into a duel
with rifles on the beautiful sandy beach.
The contestants stationed themselves one at
each end, about 300yds. apart, and the war
started by mutual agreement. Shot after
shot was fired, each aiming determinedly to
hit the other, but, thanks to the rum, the
bullets whizzed all round without scoring
a bull’s-eye. When their ammunition was
exhausted they met in the centre of the
battlefield and shook hands, agreeing that
future celebrations should be held at Thurs-
day Island, while Forbes Island would
remain “dry.”
FIREFLIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There's a charm in the bush -where the fire-
flies display
Their lamps in an air that is still,
Soft lights that go twinkling about when
the day
Turns to grey
In merry cotillons that flutter and sway
Over rill,
Vale and hill,
And amble and ramble away.
The sweet haunting call of a night-bird I
hear,
Far off where the warrigals dream,
AVhilc speck after speck like a luminous
spear,
Far and near.
Cleaves the shadows wherever the fire-
swarms appear
In a stream
All agleam,
And entrance as they dance in the clear.
Those wonderful atoms that twinkle and
shine.
Enraptured I watched long ago ;
And old camp-fires I see as they dart in a
line,
And combine
With the glow-worms at foot of a dew-
wetted vine,
Passing low 7
To and fro,
To the lowing, far lowing of kine.
Down the flowery vale where they drift out
of sight,
A magical air seems to stray;
And sweetly anon, winging far through the
night.
Calm and bright,
Sounds the note of a swan overhead in its
flight,
While the play
Of the gay
Fairy lamps fills the camps with delight.
N.s.w.
E. S. SORENSON.


THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne.
(Opp. Rail nay Slat ion),
’Phone F 4141 (10 lines).
200 Rooms
3*
IS
ii
i'
n.
! ** *H! !i
n
a
200 Baths
Melbourne's Most Modern Hotel.
Rates per day:
Room and meals from 22/6
Room and Breakfast from 12/6
■8
WHEN MAKING YOUR WILL
REMEMBER THIS
MANY men believe that in making their will they are
bequeathing their whole property to their dependents.
In actual fact this is not so. Probate tax makes a
heavy inroad into many bequests. To overcome this difficulty,
the P. & C. Probate Assurance was evolved. It provides the
ideal solution, pays for probate tax, obviates forced sales and
< provides adequate money for dependents during the long assess*
ment period. Discuss the matter with their representatives or
write to:—
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OP AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trelhowan, M.L.C. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Fanners & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and
Agency Co., Ltd. _£==
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
FEBRUARY ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
The Banks and the Land:
Can They Write Down Debts?
The N.S.W. Moratorium
McKenna and Inflation
N.Z. Exchange
These and other vital matters
to investors are discussed
in the February issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
* Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
SMOKE-OH!
ENG A G EVENT’S END.
. Since, dear one, you deny me both,
I must have either you
Or alcohol. .. . To choose I’m loath,
Still, if I must — adieu!
“A controlling body should he appointed to take
charge of all Sydney beaches."
A kind of surf board?
* V
“Batsmen have laughed at deliveries which were
not on the wicket and let them pass.”
It’s known as scoff theory.
¥ *
“The ex-Kaiser’s fourth son, August, is seeking
his father’s permission to assume command of the
Hitlerite ‘storm troops.’ ”
It brings back memories of another August
the Fourth, now 18$ years old.
THE RECORD MAKERS.
Lieutenant Mutt’s attempt to beat the
record of 4hr. 2.0055ec.. established by Cap-
tain FJyhanger for the ascent of the peak
of ML Everest in 1347. resulted in failure.
Limit. Mutt’s backers are claiming an abso-
lute record, however, for the descent of the
peak.
The gallant officer’s funeral will take place
after the recovery of the body, for which
Also Khan, world’s champion mountain body-
finder. is now searching. If successful. Khan
will make a claim upon the International
Records Commission for the declaration of
a new mountain body-finding record.
Airflight Super-Commander Spotlight
makes the thirteenth challenger of the 33
hours 47 minutes round-the-world air flight
record, established by his wife the day before
yesterday. He will use a Bustem engine
and Dead Sea oil. Clothes by Snip and Co.;
boots by Natty Footwears. Cigarettes are
supplied by Gaspers, Ltd.
At the Sydney Central, before Mr. Hardfines, S.M.,
.fames Borednutt, 87, who pleaded guilty to break-
ing 26 gramophone records in a flat at King’s Cross,
was sentenced to six months’ hard labor. In in-
flicting the maximum sentence, Mr. Hardfines said
that the world was sick of this record-breaking.
Defendant pleaded that he was sick of these records.
The fe’.M.: Most of us are sick of records, but
that is no excuse for breaking them. The only thing
to be said in favor of defendant was that he had
created no new records.
* *
“Every one of Condobolin’s population of 3000,
except the aged and disabled, can swim.” — “Sun.”
In Condobolin they never collapse with
dismay
When credits grow shorter and shorter;
They don’t care a dump for the slump
because they
-Can all keep their heads above water!
FRIEND: “I don’t think it’s serious—l wouldn’t let a little knock in
the engine upset me.”
CAR-OWNER (more or less): “Yes, but, dammit, I wish it wouldn’t
do it just like the instalment man.”
“Cricket, a,s a game, was known to the Anglo-
Saxons.” —“Sunday Sun.”
And Wranglo-Saxons threaten to kill it.
* ¥
“The doctor testified that if the bullets had struck
a vital spot they would have proved fatal.”
—Brisbane “Daily Mail.”
Well, wasn’t he sworn to tell the truth,
and nothing but the truth?
Many would like to see the Board bored
to splitting point.
* *
GROUND FOR DIVORCE.
“lie was all right when we were married
last June,” she sobbed. “But lie’s been
using Brown-yu ever since the surfing
started and now he wbn’t match any of
my autumn frocks.”
FARMER JOHN.
“I am gradually settling down to this
Windsor plot,” said the multiple-job man
from Aubu r n.
“As you know. I
never did feel
like settling on
those Goulburn-
street plots, where
some of the
roughest sel e c-
tions in Australia <
have been dum-
mied. These flats
are not so green
as those I have
been accustomed
to working, and I
may be breaking
new ground on
that Reid selec-
tion of mine
shortly, though
experts do say
that all I’m likely
to raise there is
a heavy crop of
raspberries. The
bull ? Blast the
bull! I loaned
him to a chap
who has refused
point-blank to return him. I thought that
damn Lang-plan stuff was forgotten.”
ON THE AIR.
Mrs. Fugwash sat in her darkened draw-
ing-room with a few cultured friends. “A
Feast of Soul, my dears,” she whispered.
“The eminent composer, Herr Orto B. Schott,
and golden-voiced Signor Ad. E. Noyd inter-
preting. Ah ! think of it. That incompar-
able pair!”
And now the statics from the new model
electric Diatonic-Stridor begin to crackle
warningly. The announcer’s excruciatingly
genteel voice is heard.
“This is Station DUD. The time is now
seventeen and a half minutes past seven.
This is Mudge’s Miracle Soap Session. Ladies,
on washing-day have you ever felt washed-
out yourself? Blue as the blue-bag? flat
as your own flat-iron? Well, if you use
Mudge’s Miracle Soap you’ll never feel like
that any more. Mudge’s Miracle Soap
makes washing-day a whirl of gaiety, a
saponaceous spree. Remember, Mudge’s
Miracle Soap, sold by all grocers. Save the
wrappers for the ten-pound prize. This is
Mudge’s Miracle Soap sponsored session, and
we are now to hear Signor Ad. E. Noyd sing
Schott’s new masterpiece. ‘Don’t Throw a
Lighted Lamp at Mother.’ accompanied by
the Strimblehorn Sepulchral Orchestra, Chat-
tanooga recording.’’
A protracted tinny reverberation, and then
the magic, muzzled voice of the Signor: —
Oh, mammy mine!
Yew’re on’y , mine,
An’ no one else’s in this great wide woild ;
I'm feelin’ blew,
I think of yew,
Yew are „so trew,
Vewer darlin’ head so permanently coiled—
“ Ah-h-h!” sighed the listening radioafs in
rapture.
Norbell.
“I could never do that!”
“Oh, you don't know what you can do till
you try.”
“ Yairs, but what would a bloke want to try
to do it for?”
“When Root first exploited the leg theory, bats-
men weren’t in any physical danger.’’ —“Sunday Sun.”
So lie wasn’t the Hoot of the evil, after
all
MOVIE MIRACLES.
Reel life abounds with inventions which
would have an enormous sale in real life.
Some examples:—
(1) The cottage oil-lamp which, on being
turned up, gives a 10,000 candle-power effect.
(2) The hero’s six-shooter with which he
outs three dozen gangsters without reloading.
(3) The heroine’s marcel-wave which is
still in action after a desperate shipboard
struggle for lier honor with the villain, and
a swim to land through a boiling tropic surf.
(5) The beautiful clean shave which lasts
the hero for three weeks while lost in the
jungle.
(0) And, most wonderful of all, the cigar-
ette-lighter which ignites at the first, attempt.
paragons.
“We need only look around us to find plenty of
people who are still good and righteous.’’
—Melbourne lecturer.
“Wonderful —marvellous!” babbled the
investigator, his eyes shining with pride at
his discoveries. “The salt of the earth is
still here. Come with me and let me show
you some examples in saintliness....
“Here we are —listen to this model. ‘Spot-
less reputation ... .lifelong Rechabite....
loving husband and father... .staunch
churchman... .universally loved and re-
spected guiltless as the babe unborn.’
He’s here on a charge of robbery with
assault, and his counsel would tell us still
more about him if we could stay.
“Read this. ‘Splendid God-fearing Aussie
Mother... .the Woman who Paid ....bleed-
ing heart. .. .brave smile
....sacrifice for little
children. . . .hearths and
homes.’ Her husband’s
just divorced her, you
know. Isn’t it delight-
ful how the, papers give
us these poignantly
beautiful private details?
“But here’s my cham-
pion. Just listen to
him. ‘With hand up-
raised I solemnly dedi-
cate myself. . . .my coun-
try’s hour of need....
work to the death if need be.... restore
prosperity... .help the helpless. .. .feed the
starving....dry the tear....cast out want
and despair for ever from our shores.’ Isn t
he grand? Isn’t he magnificent? That’s
from his policy speech. The election comes
off next week.” T P P
“The Australians are eaten up with resentment.”
—Brisbane paper.
Anybody eating an Australian would be
liable to feel that way. They’re tough.
“If you kiss me I’ll call mother.”
“Well, I don’t mind kissing her; but what
would your father say?”
DOOMED.
In boyhood’s days he’d rhapsodise
On anything. Superlatives
Fell from him as the raining shies
Shed water. Anxious relatives
Feared for his future —and the blighter
Duly became a cricket-writer.
TEST SIDELIGHTS, 1943.
The Great Test Battle began to-day, with
the Empire—aye, the world —looking on in
reverent silence. The Englishmen took the
field with the most impressive array of
waste-paper baskets and telegraph forms
that even Test cricket has seen. The first,
a 500-word cable from Blether, whizzed over
the wire at terrific speed and struck an
Aussie radio operator with fatal results.
The next, a medium-paced lettergram on the
off. was countered by the Australian captain
Wordfull with a masterly diatribe in the
“Daily Yelp.” Smart work by the English
P.M.G. saved the situation. Further play
was stopped while the English captain
searched for his dictionary. It transpired
t hat it had been purloined, together with his
double-strength spectacles and eyeshade, by
a party of press rivals on the Hill.
Later. —Our special representative reports
that, the ink is in perfect order, while the
chairs and penholders in the cable offices
are in better shape than for years past.
r Phe way our boys are standing up to the
polysyllabic googlies of John Bull’s gram-
mar-trap terrors is superb. Ron Haddock
faced Bunk, 8.A., like a man inspired. His
orthography speaks volumes for his early
years of training in the Woop Woop post
office. Wordfull was slightly uneasy at the
start, but once he had his glasses on and
his thesaurus open at the right page he
soon got into his stride and dispersed the
closely-packed field with a series of .slash-
ing reply-paid wires. Several members of
the English side and at least one Antipo-
dean champ, were bowled out neck and crop
as a result of their inability to cope with the
new thesis theory.
London, —A committee comprising 11. M.
the King, the Archbishop of Canterbury, the
Prime Minister and 17 peers is consider-
ing the Board of Control’s protest against
the use of the grammar trap. “Rather than
abandon it.” said Vice-Chancellor Eyebrow,
D.D.. D.C.L., M.A.. 8.A.. B.C. (Oxon.). in
his evidence before the committee, “I would
see our Island Kingdom plunged in the
horrors of another Press War.’'
Ooolicuiol (India). —The Rajah of Bobble-
Wobble rushed from his harem this morning
and sent a long cable to the Sydney paper
off which he is the local representative. It
is understood that in the event of a Press
War the Rajah is willing personally to
supply and maintain in the field an army
of skilled reporters, shorthand writers,
typists, radio-announcers and adepts in in-
vective and innuendo —all bona-fide amateur
cricketers.
B. K.
BEWHICHED.
We argued long, did Jones and I,
Smith, Robinson and Brown,
On whether we should homeward fly
Or liquor on in town.
Which should we seek—fair Coogee's sands,
The club, some King's Cross bower?
1 say we argued, jaw and hands —
’Twas midnight's which-ing hour.
H. M.
THE CIVIL SERVANT WRITES TO
HIS GIRL.
Dear Sir or Madam, —Your communication
of the Bth instant to hand, in which you
acknowledge receipt of my letters (Nos. 1
and 2 of Series 1) of the 19th ultimo and
2Gth idem respectively. As will be seen from
a perusal of the dates above quoted, con-
siderable delay has been occasioned in the
reply thereto, and I am therefore directed
to request firmly, that in future correspon-
dence be more expeditiously dealt with.
Should this not be complied with, a full
explanation, duly signed and witnessed by
at least one person (not a relative), must be
submitted on Form A426X provided for
• the purpose within seven days thereof.
With reference to your query in para. 4
of your letter as’ to whether I still love
you." I would refer you to the oral agree-
ment re matrimony entered into on the 16th
January last, at approximately 10.45 p.m.. at.
the residence of your parents (if any), you
being the party of the, first part, and I the
party of the second part. Though not re-
duced to terms of writing, nor any registered
file made thereof. I am permitted to state
that, so far as is officially known, no change
in my affections has been manifested, and that,
therefore, the agreement shall be, ipso facto.
duly honored on the date agreed upon (D.I .).
I would also inquire, whilst on this sub-
ject. as to whether the undermentioned
article has been found to your satisfaction.
viz. : _ „ ,
Ring, engagement, 3-stone, 1 ot.
Ivindly let me know by return of post, quot-
ing the above number when replying.
I shall, however, bo seeing you in person
on Oth prox., being due back on that day.
Snapshots enclosed, which please acknow-
ledge.—l have the honor to be,
Sir or Madam,
Your obedient servant,
Cyril Zonker.
Enc. 3.
S. W. K.
THE POET.
Although his greatest prosperity may be
obtained from ad.-versity, and he has ode a
good deal, he stanza lone. The lines of his
life are hard ; but his form must be good
or he could not be a poet. His feet are set
amongst the stars, and any girl worth her
salt is glad when he is prepared to metre,
lie faces the coldness of the world, and is
glad of a rhyme; if anyone is kind to him
he makes a song about it. The lay he pur-
sues is not as profitable as those of a
poultry-farmer, yet he lavishes sonnet much
labor.
And often he feels inclined to blank verse
and get a job in a pub.
H. M.


V
Q.
f
A
S
M
f
L
1 1
C
>
<,\
X V
SW
i*fe
&
H
<*Z
w
/
The Sturdy Yeomen of England
knew the value of Beer
Good beef . . . pure beer . . . and the virile British Empire
the three have gone hand in hand ever since England has been
a Power.
The yeomen of England . . . healthy, lusty and happy . . .
knew the value of good brown ale. Their descendants, carrying
on the traditions of Empire in all parts of the World, still
derive energy and vigour from beer which is even better than
the ale the yeomen knew.
Beer is malt in its best and most inexpensive form . . . every
drop means health and nourishment for you.
(
m
DRINK
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
REGULARLY
its good for you /
BREWED UNDER PERFECT HYGIENIC CONDITIONS
IN YOUR OWN STATE
TOOTH’S
TOOHEYS
RESCH’S
86-75


OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
WHATEVER your walk in life —
whether manufacturer or pastoralist,
shopkeeper or farmer, housewife or
saleswoman, lawyer or doctor,, artisan
or clerk—the facilities of the National
Bank are available to you.
It provides a complete banking service
covering the financial side of Primary
and Secondary production, Land
Settlement, Trade and Commerce,
Investments, Loans, Overseas business
in all its phases, and Tourist require-
ments.
The widespread service is available at
430 offices and branches in Australia,
and two branches in London —all of
which are closely linked up with the
Bank’s agents the world over.
Principal Office in New South Wales:
342-346 George Street, Sydney.
Head Office: 271-279 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ẅ
w
“Reliance Hydraulic Rams
Give Continuous Automatic
Pumping.
The cost of maintenance is practically nil!
If water is to be pumped from a creek or
dam to a higher position, “Reliance” Rams
will do the work automatically, provided
a fall is first obtained from the source of
supply to the Ram. The momentum of
the down-running water works the Ram.
. Several sizes available, from £4/15/-
Ask for full particulars.
MACSON” PISTON PUMPS
“Macson” Pumps are largely used where a
plenteous supply of water at considerable
pressure is required. For long-distance
pumping or pumping water to an elevated
position, the “Macson” is ideal. Crossheads
in “Maeson” Pumps are steel.
Other makes of similar type
have cast iron crossheads.
“Maeson"’ Brass cylinder lin-
ings are much heavier than
in other makes. Gears are
machine-cut. Smallest size is
for Him pipe, capacity 340
gallons per hour. Price,
Four larger sizes up to 3-inch
pipe size with hourly capacity
of 2500 gallons are available.
Jr ssm
'"'"SS
m
SEND IN
YOUR
PUMPING
PROBLEMS
FOR EXPERI
ADVICE
FREE.
FREE!
We have just issued a splendid Catalogue of .Toolsi and
Hardware. In addition to nearly 250 pages ot illustrations
and descriptions of over 1400 articles, there are many
of valuable information compiled by a competent authority.
The many subjects included make Catalogue No. 33 a splendid reference boon
t01 ' To rnak, ° sure' that ‘ y ou secure a copy, fill in and send this coupon now.
NAME ...
ADDRESS
ersons
Proprietanj limited
582 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
116 Waymouth Street, ADELAIDE.
51 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
532 Murray Street, PERTH.
■
m
m
/
*
■
m
■ ■■
m
m
■■■ :••••••
✓ **
n
ami
i .
mf.
igfm
L//e
:V
:
BACKACHE!
“ They did Motner
so much
good —
SHE LOOKS AND FEELS
TEN YEARS YOUNGER!
99
“ You know those wonderful pills that did Mother so much
good when she was crippled with backache? You remember
those pills were good for my bad back, and rheumatism, too. I
couldn’t sleep, and was in terrible pain all day long. Everybody
told me that De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills were really
wonderful, and when I realised my weak kidneys were the real
cause of my trouble I got a supply of these pills, and they did
work wonders. , . ,
I am going to get you a supply right away. They 11 stop
your pain and make you feel altogether stronger. I’ll get you a
3/6 box—or perhaps I had better get a 6/6 size, it’s much more
economical. You have only to take two pills at nighty one before
meal-times, and your pain, like mine, will go for good.”
Thousands of men and women have come to the brink of
breakdown by chronic symptoms that actually reveal deep-seated
kidney trouble.
But there are thousands of one-time sufferers, now restored
to health, who will tell you there is no surer, safer, more certain
and inexpensive remedy for lumbago, chronic backache, r^ u “
matism, sciatica, and all the sure signs of kidney trouble, than
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
Where other remedies fail, in cases where men and women
have been bed-ridden, or perhaps have suffered—not weeks, but
years—De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have banished the
old pain and their wonderful tonic powers have restored health,
vigour and vitality. ■ , r , . .
There is no mystery about this remedy. Your own chemist
can tell you all about the prescription printed on each box. Get
a 3/6, or the larger and more economical 6/6 supply, and get bacK
health to-day. Ask for and see you get the genuine De Witts
Kidney and Bladder Pills, in the blue, white and gold box. 1 hese
pills are never sold loose.
Dewitt’s
KIDNEY &
BLADDER
PILLS


ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF N.S.W.
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
NINE DAYS 10th to 19th APRIL, 1933 FIVE NIGHTS
£14,000 PRIZES £14,000
ENTRIES CLOSE.
CATTII a ( nd C p,& T . . Tr ° ttinB . . Even : s) M-ch 4
DOGS T aJd CANARIES and CAGE BIRDS ••••'•’• March 1 1
agric ULTURE (other than Wheat),' including ' FRUIT ' and ?
WINE . LTURE March >0
Wonn rmD (except Export Classes) March 10
WOOD-CHOPPING CONTESTS ’ 2O
Schedules and Entry Forms on Application.
Endeavor House,
33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
G. C. Somerville,
Secretary.
Arrange to stop-over at Lake
Louise on your way to England
To ENGLAND
and beautiful
Lake
via CANADA
Louise
ATURE’S scenic masterpiece
right in the heart of the Rockies
—headquarters of a hundred
thrilling sights and Alpine
pleasures riding swimming
in a warm sheltered pool—tennis
climbing— dancing to wonder-
ẁ
ful music in the Chateau's famous ball-
room. City comforts, service and cuisine
?v, • t^s great C.P.R. mountain hotel.
Write or call for details and booklets.
CANADIAN PACI F I C, 32/7
247 Georg,e Street, Sydney.
Canadian Pacific
World’s Greatest Travel System
TRAINS - STEAMERS -HOTELS
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
LUCERNE ON LOAMY SOILS.
“Golightly” : To establish lucerne on aver-
age loamy soils, fence the land into small
paddocks (I prefer 20 acres) and in early
autumn crowd with stock, harrow twice
(once each way) and broadcast 51b. of seed
per acre, followed by a third harrowing,
t rovided this work leaves the ground bare
and dusty, sufficient plants for grazing pur-
poses are assured with the first fall of rain.
On other than deep alluvial soils, or where
• cropping is the aim, to have lucerne plants
crowded together is a mistake, for, unless
the rainfall is considerable, there is not
enough surface moisture to sustain a heavy
crop. Thus in, say, 22-inch rainfall dis-
tricts light sowing is best. The results of
the foregoing method of planting encour-
aged me .to broadcast in open grazing pad-
docks, trampling the seed in with a mob of
sheep. This hasn’t been much of a - success;
the plants, now three years old, are so sought
after by the stock they are kept short,
enabling the less palatable native grasses
to crowd them out. For lucerne to assert
itself (which it will do) over other plants,
it must be given a chance occasionally by
keeping stock off. This is much more prac-
ticable when paddocks are small. I find 100
acres of good grazing lucerne, divided into
five, paddocks, will produce 1000 fat lambs
during the year on a 22-inch rainfall;
1 hese, at 10s. a head, will beat a wheat
crop on the same area at late prices.
Lucerne for fat crossbred lambs and dairy
cows should be helpful to some wheat-
farmers. They are in the position of hav-
ing the necessary plant and cultivation pad-
docks to put in large areas at small cost;
and lucerne-seed is now a reasonable price.
KIKUYU GRASS IN N. S. WALES.
o/o^ooV'' J avo kikuyu grass (B.
‘Xr4 iTT 111 Barmedman district
(JN.S.W.) and find it grows well in creek-
beds, near springs, in the garden or any-
where where the soil is sandy, and is likely
to collect and hold rain-water. It does not
a^?i ai \ planted out in an open
paddock. Wherever it gets sufficient mois-
ture during the summer it is invincible.
Three years ago I planted a couple of roots
of kikuyu in a buffalo-grass lawn. To-day
the lawn is half kikuyu, and each summer
sees it advance further, ousting the tough
buffalo grass as it goes. Kikuyu is an ideal
grass for the fowlrun, but it is advisable
to lay a piece of wire-netting over the plot
so that the grass has a chance to grow.
Otherwise the incessant grazing of ebooks
is likely to kill it out.
MALTING BARLEY.
A Queensland industry not
much heard of outside the trade is the grow-
uig of malting barley for brewing, chiefly
w I ! arlm , g Do wns. The State barley
pool to date has taken delivery of 64 000
which 3500 have been rated as
teed. Maltsters are emphatic that a change
ot seed is necessary in Queensland if the
quality of the local grain is not to de-
teriorate, and the Barley Board is taking
steps to obtain fresh supplies of seed for the
coming planting from Tasmania and Maori-
tand, the variety sought being Archer, which
was originally grown on the Downs, but has
now lost its characteristic quality. The
Department of Agriculture is also importing
seed for distribution to selected growers.
Queensland brewing cos. have undertaken
to buy 80,000 bushels of barley from the
crop just harvested, but this market can only
be maintained by the production of the type
of barley the brewers require. Incidentally,
Canadian farmers are going in for the pro-
duction of barley on a large scale, anticipat-
es a brisk demand from the Republic over
f' - A (l evico . adopted by the Depart-
ment of Agriculture m Quebec was to import
legistered seed from the Canadian west and
resell to growers at cost price less transport
charges. Now two counties in Quebec are
organised for the production of seed barley.
TILE-DRAINING.
“Salmon Gums”: Depth is essential in
tile-drains. The best tool for the pur-
pose is a narrow draining-spade, about
-om. long, tapering from 4in. at the
bottom to Tin. or Bin. at the top.
In heavy ground, take out the top spit
down t 0 the subsoil with, an ordinary spade
making it about 14in. wide. Keep all the
top soil on one side of the drain, and the
clay on the other. In filling in, refill with the
clay first, and be sure to use it all. Clay
left on top becomes a platch in winter.
Next, take out a spit with the long: spade.
Don’t attempt to dig straight into a flat sur-
face, but keep it on a slant of about 45deg.
with the side of the drain, and take first from
one side, then from the other, and then from
the centre. This leaves one side of the .spade
always free; it can be driven easily into stiff
clay, and the drain becomes nicely tapered.
Leave it just wide enough at the bottom to
permit you to work for the third spit, which,
in most cases, will complete it. In taking
this, obtaining the correct fall is all-impor-
tant. Use a light line (a fishing-line serves
excellently) and a builder’s line-level. Tak-
ing about 25ft. at a time, attach the line to
a post at the end of the drain, and to an
adjustable post at the other end of the sec-
tion. Place the line-level in the middle,
and raise or lower the adjustable end until
it registers exactly level. Then raise that end
to give the required fall. An inch may not be
top much ; water will run through a tile-drain
with a fall of one inch in a hundred feet.
Tlum cut a stick to reach from the bottom
of the finished drain to the line, and take out
the final spit, using the stick at frequent
intervals, to keep the bottom parallel with
the line.
Some points to remember. After laying the
tiles pack the clay firmly round them. This
prevents soil being carried into the drain
with seepage. Keep the bottom of your
measuring stick clean ; a little dirt on it may
cause a variation in the depth. On wet
days, watch your line carefully. A shower
will tighten it, a burst of sunshine slacken
it, and alter the fall every few feet. Re-
move the line-level from the line before
digging ; its weight causes a sag. Construct
the drains along the line of greatest fall to
get the best results.
PIGS IN N. S. WALES.
“Jethro Tull”: I was preparing pork
when “Thormanby’s” (B. l/2/’33) disser-
tation came hot from the press. These are
the present requirements of Smithfield, and
those of Australian consumers are much the
same. Porker: Between 601 b. and SOlb. dead
weight, fine of bone, firm of flesh, lengthy
and lean. Baconer: 1301 b. for prime;
longer, leaner, smooth, well-finished, fine in
bone, light shoulder, light jowl, no seedy-cut,
distribution 0 f back fat not to exceed
in the heavier pigs and l jin. in the lighter.
If “Thormanby’s” white crosses will satisfy
these requirements, well and good. But the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture has for
years advocated the use of Berksliire-Tam-
worth crossbred sows with the Berkshire
boar.
This come-back Berkshire progeny, if the
result of careful mating, is a very useful
type, and can be converted into pork
or bacon as desired, depending on the in-
tensity of the feeding. An improvement on
this method of breeding can be made by put-
ting the same crossbred sow to a selected
Tam worth boar, one with well-developed
hams and a strong tendency t 0 early matu-
rity. Such Tamworth sires are scarce.
“V.S.M.” (B. 25/l/’33) mentions the suc-
cess achieved in Maoriland. Stud breeders
of Berkshire and Tamworth pigs in N.S.W.
made good sales during the past 12 months
to M.L. buyers.
“Thormanby” is right in deploring the
present state of the pig industry in N.S.W.
Actually the Ma State exports only about
2 p.c. of the total pig exports from Aus-
tralia. I saw pigs raised on the coast eight
and ten years ago. Recently I was through
the same country, and the same old indiffer-
ent' methods hit you in the eye. Some type
of recording scheme is very necessary, and
it is an excellent opportunity for some
farmers’ co-operative concern to make a
name for itself. _ And we shall have to get
away from the idea that a fattening sty is
essential to make a pig fat. Nothing is
more absurd. A pig will fatten in accord-
ance with his feeding and his breeding, and
he will fatten better where he can get exer-
cise than where he has scarcely room to feed.
Nor must he be stuffed from the word go
to make the best pork 0 r bacon. Pigs should
be fed according to standards : a full ration
for pork and a little less for bacon. Don’t
forget to give them their mineral supple-
ment. They need lime, charcoal and salt.
LAMBING AND SHEARING.
“Murrawong” : Anyone who attempts to lay
down definite dates for lambing is only
betraying his ignorance of conditions outside
his own particular district. Merino rams
will work at most times of the year, but
English breeds are a different proposition.
I heir idiosyncrasies have to be studied in
conjunction with local seasons and the mar-
ket; the common denominator of those con-
ditions is the chief factor of success in fat-
lamb raising. In joining merino rams, the
seasonal forecast is the main factor—you
must have feed for lambing - —and as the sea-
son J aries more or l e Ss in every district in
A. S. Wales, and considerably ’ more so in
Queensland, the date of joining should be
decided by experience of local conditions.
One of the most successful sheepbreeders
I have met fixed the date of his lambing after
a study of the local rain records covering
*,O years. He wanted to have his ewes
lambing in March, but the district records
showed early rain in only eight years out
ot 20. By joining his rams a month later,
he gets lambs in April-May, with excellent
results.
Many graziers time their lambing to follow
immediately after shearing, but the risk is
very great. If the sheep are in poor condi-
tion, the unavoidable knoeking-about full-
bellied ewes get in the shed results in a
big percentage of lambs, turning, with con-
sequent loss of ewe and lamb, apart from
the general disadvantage of starving the
ew r es at a critical stage. Again, shearing
may be delayed by wet weather or other
causes, and a man is left with the option
of postponing shearing til] his full-woolled
ewes have lambed, or of letting them lamb
in the shed, which is murder. Shearing
lambs under three months old is unprofit-
able; the advantage is that they do better
and the hogget fleece is without the lamb-tip.
However, in districts where grass-seed is
troublesome, lamb-shearing is a vital
necessity.
mixed bales of wool.
“Narooma”: “Junnbuck’s” suggestion (B.
l/2/’33) that brokers should be instructed
to add each constituent lot from a mixed
bale to its corresponding main line would
involve the owner in the further expense
of pressing one or two more bales for each
sort represented in the mixed bale. This
would more than balance the probable saving.
“Cee Bee’s” theory that it is better to make
a mixed bale than to force a line is sound,
but there is no harm in allowing the odd
wool to be absorbed in a lower line. A small
quantity of AAA may be worked through
AA or any other lower line where the dis-
tinction does not depend on length or quality
that will be apparent after scouring.
There are two further alternative methods
of doing away with left-over wools. One
which has received strong support of late
years is to forward oddments to one of the
repacking firms which specialise in pooling,
thus selling in the big lots. The other con-
sists in eradicating the cause of left-over
wool by enlarging the bins in the shed. It
is always difficult to forecast how the last
50 fleeces from a mob will go but if each
bin is big enough to hold two bales of wool
the presser can be held back till it- is
obvious whether the bin will make one heavy
bale or two light ones. The result will be
a dinkum clean-up.
COCKY GOES BACK TO THE HORSE.
“The Breaker”: In South Aus. and the
eastern States prices for good-quality ani-
mals, well up to weight, have advanced at
least 20 p.c. in the last 12 months; the
job at present is to supply the demand.
Recently I saw three separate mobs, aggre-
gating 800 all told, en route from north-
western Queensland for the ■wheat districts
of ; South Aus. —a seven- or eight-hundred-
mile trip, over bad country most of the way.
The horses were all farm types. One of
the dealers in charge told me the agents
guaranteed that .they could sell up to a
thousand as long as the horses were suitable
for farm work. N. S. Wales is also getting
its quota of heavies from the north, and
breeders have at last realised the mistake
they made when they knocked off breeding
these sorts. With a market assured breeders
.should concentrate on meeting the demands
of the cocky, and quality mares and sires
. should be procured t 0 form the base of their
output, so that the demand won’t slacken.
Try to put nondescripts into the farmers,
and the chances are they’ll revert to tractors.
“ALL GOOD COLORS.”
“Booraby”: Hides were being loaded on a
waggon at a Queensland homestead, and I
noticed they were all white. Asking the
reason, I was told the owner never killed
anything for home use but a white, unless
there were washy or brindle beasts in the
herd All the good colors were kept for sale.
Blacks not polled Angus, but the occasional
freak or mongrel of other breeds—were
treated with the same disfavor as brindles.
So far as concerns the quality of meat
i.~? ave never found that color makes any
difference. But butchers have their fancies
and salesmen often advertise “all good
colors in regard to drafts they have to
oner. \\ hen purchasing for stud purposes,
the buyer naturally looks at the color as
well as anything else, but one would hardly
expect that to make any difference to a
buyer of butchers’ cattle.
When there is a long distance to travel
and the roads are not good, the drover has
good reason t 0 look for hard colors. White
isn t hardy, though there are exceptional
cases. lou rarely see a white bullock in
a carrier s or timbergotter’s team. Generally
speaking, good colors are an indication of
good breeding, and clean-bred cattle are
tor any purpose than the inbreds
whose shaggy or washy coats show that the
breed is running out. Rut a white Short-
horn or Durham may be as clean-bred as
a red or roan though not a white Devon or
a white Hereford.
CHICKEN-POX REMEDIES.
Gallinule : Ibis being the chicken-pox
season, it js up to poultry-farmers to keep
a wary eye on their yards and take steps
to deal with the plague should it make its
appearance. Chicken-pox, like malaria, is
a mosquito-borne disease, the insect carry-
tSe i nfecti »g organism from bird to bird,
i he first symptoms are a yellowish eruption
on the comb or wattles, the bird’s head soon
becoming covered, and the eyes closed. The
eruptions are not noticeable unless closely
watched for, and a whole flock may become
infected before the farmer realises it. The
combs of all fowls should be closely inspected
each visit to the pens.
The disease is caused by the same organ-
ism as roup, and may turn into the severe
torm known as contagious epithelioma. This
commences as a wart-like growth on the
base ot the beak which eats into the beak.
-L ic biids affected are mostly chickens under
thiee months. Destruction and burning of
infected birds is about the only means of
dealing with it after development.
Chicken-pox can be controlled by a vaccine
injected into the leg after plucking a bare
space. After inoculation the birds should be
examined to see if the vaccine has taken.
Pleated pullets in their first year lay many
more eggs than untreated birds, and the
extra eggs more than pay for the vaccine,
which costs about 2d. per bird. A popular
preventive treatment is the administration
in the mash every third day for three weeks
ot loz. of flowers of sulphur to each 7oz.
or <Soz. of mash. At the end of the period
give loz. of Epsom salts to each gallon of
drinking-water every third day for another
three weeks. Continue alternately until the
cold weather sets in, when the danger should
have passed. Green feed to cool the blood
greatly assists. Another treatment is by
dosing with a mixture of Soz. essence of
sarsaparilla and loz. potassium iodide in
half a gallon of water; put one teaspoon
in each Quart of drinking-water. Painting'
warts with carbolised glycerine is also
effective., the mixture being one part of car-
bolic acid to 10 parts of glycerine. Another
good paint is 10 p.e. iodine and 10 p.c.
nitrate of silver; another is 2oz. of bluesfone
(sulphate of copper) dissolved in a pint of
vinegar.
GROWING CABBAGES.
“Burradoo” : First, raise the right type of
young stuff for transplanting. From 15
years’ experience of growing and marketing,
I consider Henderson’s American Succession
the best variety for field cultivation, but I
won t look for trouble by recommending
either imported or local seed. Submit either
to a critical examination. Have a look at
a sample with a hand lens, and make sure
that all seeds are plump, and without signs
of shrivelling or hollowness. A quantity will
have a heavy rattling sound like shot when
shaken. Note the color, and see that it is
uniform. If it is, the seed has ripened
evenly. Fresh seed has no smell, so musti-
ness is easily detected.
Don’t use artificial seed-beds with manure.
Knock up narrow beds you can reach over
comfortably, and sieve the soil. But let it
be soil that the plants will later work in.
Scatter the seed through a fine-mesh tea-
strainer, and sieve enough soil over the seed
to only just cover them.
Let the young stuff go until it is about
three inches high. Then give this new
method a trial. Pull the strongest of the
seedlings. Those with a bluish color arc
always strong and healthy. Pinch the trail-
ing end of the tap-root, cut off the rounded
tops of the leaves, and transplant— not to
the held, but to another seed-bed that has
been liberally dressed with super. Give the
youngsters plenty of room, and let them re-
establish themselves for two or three weeks.
I hen pull the strongest, with plenty of mud
holding to the roots, snip the trailing end off
the tap root again, and put them out. Don’t
use the spindly growers.
A test plot of cabbage grown this way
gave 100 P-c. cut; 82 p.c. is pretty good the
old way. They matured earlier and had
sounder hearts, and (for some reason I can’t
explain yet) they resisted aphis, while those
grown the old way were badly infested.
timber for fencing.
“Booraby”: Many N.S.AT. dairymen who
want to subdivide their holdings for rota-
(Continued on next page.)


m
mm
3 advantages
|,—The sole of this Abbey Shoe
is not made thinner under the
instep. It runs in even thickness
from toe to heel. That guaran-
tees extra wear.
2. —The upper is made of the
finest calf. So, it’s more pliant,
and better looking.
3. —The upper, over the instep
arch, is shaped in a curve to fit
without strain or tightness. The
shoe fits easily from the first
time on.
POSTAL ORDERS. —Narrow,
medium and wide fittings are
available in all full and half sizes.
Specify width and order, also, a
supply of Abbey Preservative
Polish (6d. per tin), or a handy
cleaning outfit (2/6).
DARK TAN CALF, 48/6
ABBEY
Esta blished over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW
ADDRESS IN GEORGE STREET—
No. 316—ALMOST DIRECTLY
OPPOSITE THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 321
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
w
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cu*
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
NEW
The MIRACLE
FINISH
u
Shot
REGS,
Not a paint,
varnish,
lacquer
or enamel
1
Combining scientific and
technical research with
practical paint experience,
British Australian Lead
Manufacturers Pty. Ltd.,
have succeeded in develop-
ing a new and sensational
product that sets new stan-
dards of durability in fin-
ishing materials. Ask for
full details regarding
DULUX FINISH. It may
be the means of saving
you large sums of money.
Obtainable from principal Oil and Colour
Merchants in all States
British Australian Lead
Manufacturers Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE SYDNEY ADELAIDE
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep*: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Missing Friends.
\Y/ILL JIM ANDERSON, late Atherton
” Tableland, communicate sister Upper
Barron. Parents dead. Financial arrange-
ments useless. Both parties refuse paymen
until documents signed.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F.. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE ..... BRISBANE
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and: 9a
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also
through *he leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and_ the World, tnis
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
HOWARD HOTEL, LONDON
NORFOLK STREET, STRAND, W.C.2.
In the hub of London life, close to all Theatres.
you may pay high prices, but you cannot obtain more perfect service, better
finer wines, more comfortable and artistic rooms The private baft rooms and su:
are definitely unequalled. Yet you can have bedroom, bath, and full brealcfast io
12/6. Of course, every room has central heat, hot and cold water which
These are necessities. It is the additional luxuries you find at the Howard wmcn
vou will appreciate. Many thousands of pounds have been again spent on new
decorative effects, making the Howard
AN HOTEL OF RARE BEAUTY
Sena for Illustrated Booklet to “The Bulletin,” Sydney.
ŵ
Plum Razor Guard
THE
Lusts
PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, fits fin., fin. and Jin. blades,
a lifetime. No blades to buy. 3/- each, post free.
Sfte PLUM RAZOR
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each.
Xylo., Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 eaca
Real Ivory’ Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-dav sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case-
Black BXylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE. .
PLUM RAZORS are supplied in two wiai
—fin. and fin.
razor set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
tional grazing are faced with the difficulty
of finding fencing timber, and have been
seeking permission to split on State lands at
reduced rates. In closely-settled districts
there is not even this resource at hand, and
the shortage of material must become more
acute every year, unless the farmers take
the necessary steps themselves, to provide for
the future. Besides the divisions now re-
quired, the old fences will need renewing by-
and-bye, and if split posts have to be railed
from other parts, or sawn material obtained
from tin l mills, the fencing of a few acres
will be an expensive proposition. If a grass
lire* destroys part of the boundaries, the
farmer is also put to much inconvenience
if he lacks the means and materials to effect
immediate repairs. These are the fruits ot
the stupid policy of the axe and firestick that
swept away once-magnificent forests and
jungles. , . .
In planting trees the several require-
ments of the farm must be kept in mind.
Good trees to begin with in N. S. Wales are
box, coolabah, grey, blue and spotted gums,
cypress pine, silky oak and ironbark. W ltn
the exception of ironbark, all these are
fairly quick-growing, shoot up tall and
straight, and are useful for fencing and
building in the sapling stage. The place to
plant them is along the outside fences,
thicker on the southern than on the northern
lines. In these positions they don’t diminish
the grazing capacity of the paddocks. - Along
creek sides, where there is usually much un-
used land, trees serve the additional pur
pose of binding the banks and preventing
evaporation. The big lateral branches of
the trees can be sawn off for firewood while
the trees are still growing to usable dimen-
sions. , .
Other places to plant are the cattle camps.
Here clumps with good tops are required to
provide the necessary shade in summer.
There should be one such clump in every
paddock. If the paddock is small the best
place is a corner, if the ground is not low ;
in a large paddock a central situation is
better. Don’t give room to anything that
won’t be serviceable to you for building or
repairing by-and-bye.
FEED VALUE OF MOLASSES.
“F 34”: As Queensland's dairying indus-
try expands into the north, closer to the
source of supply, very little molasses should
bo used as fertiliser. To me the freight
(230 miles) on the treacle and the returned-
empty drum is greater than the actual cost,
being 11s. Id. against 10s. sd. cost, exchange
and postage. Still 21s. 6d, for a 42-gallon
drum is about 2P>. for a penny, which is
cheap enough. It is not a milk-producing
food, being very poor in nitrogenous matter,
but it maintains stock in good strong con-
dition through the winter and dry spring
ready to make the best possible use of the
grass once rain comes. In the cane-growing
districts if it were fed with chaffed cane-
tops it could very well be used for fattening
bullocks. Cows need no mustering at milking-
time while molasses is on the menu and
Dobbin, Denis, the ebooks and even Bluey,
the cattle-dog, help themselves when they get
the chance. Dobbin works well on it, too.
It is easily fed, since it can be placed m a
bucket in' the bail, letting each cow have
what she can lick up while being milked,
somewhere about a quart. It is rich in
mineral matter and seems to have overcome
bone-chewing in my herd, bone-chewing being
the most prominent symptom of mineral-
deficiency, which is the limiting factor to milk-
production in a flush season on the coastal
areas. It is laxative and so is a valuable
addition to the diet of cattle that are main-
taining themselves largely on scrub, correct-
ing the constipating effects of such feed and
enabling them to use the scrub to better
advantage. Altogether too good a feed to be
wasted when every dairy cow in the State
is a potential customer for 50 or 60 gallons
a year.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Is used lubricating oil from a motor-car
suitable for oiling harness? —4107.
If the oil is taken straight from the sump
and filtered through three thicknesses of
filter paper it will be quite serviceable.
I am thinking of growing passionfruit,
starting in a small wag. (1) Best variety
to grow? (2) Would five acres at Rooty
Hill (N.S.W.) be suitable? (3) Where
can I get advice as to cultivation? (4)
How long must elapse before I can make a
living at it f—4063.
(1) Passiflora edulis. (2) The locality is
subject to severe frosts and usually the soil
is not light enough. The area mentioned is
too small. (3) N.S.W. Agriculture Depart-
ment will supply leaflets on request. (4)
Passions reach full production in two years
if grown in a suitable environment.
(1) Best locality in vicinity of Sydney
to establish or buy a poultry farm? (2)
Names of one or two of the most up-to-date
poultry farmers near Sydney? —4ls9.
(1) Best districts, from a residential
point of view, are between Parramatta and
Castle Hill, Hyde and Hornsby, and Carling-
ford. (2) T. E. Jarman,. Murrary Farm-
road, Carlingford ; Charles Leach, Revesby ;
W. Ingham, Ivurrajong-road, Casula.
What land is open for selection in the
Cooktown (Q.) district at present? Terms
of purchase, etc? —4111.
Land between the Deighton and Laura
rivers has been divided into 160 tobacco
farms, ranging from 110 to 255 acres. One
hundred and fifty-seven portions arc avail-
able as perpetual leases, at a capital value
of 2s. 6d. an acre, to landless approved
applicants. To be approved as an applicant
a person must have £3OO cash or guaran-
teed backing to that amount. A map and
other particulars may be obtained from the
Land Administration Board, Brisbane.
(1) A recipe for pickling or preserving
gherkins? (2) Trade prospects for this
vegetable? What firms handle them? If
supplied to the open markets , approx, prices
ruling and what varieties are marketable?
—4236.
(1) Pick the gherkins while still small
and tender, place in a china dish and sprinkle
with salt. Next day. drain off any brine which
has formed, and place the gherkins in a
jar Take enough vinegar to cover the
gherkins, adil some whole pepper and bruised
ginger, and bring to the boil; pour the boil-
ing vinegar over the gherkins in the jar.
and stand in a warm place for about an
hour. Pour off the vinegar and boil it up
again with the' pepper and ginger, strain,
and pour over the gherkins- again so that
they are just covered. Cork the jar, or tie
down with thick kitchen paper; can be
used in a few days. The peppers and ginger
may be placed in a muslin bag for conveni-
ently withdrawing when finished with. It
whole gherkins are being done, and they do
not absorb much salt during the preliminary
salting stage, a little salt should be addon
to the final vinegar. (2) Gherkins are sold
by agents in the open vegetable markets in
the usual way, but the supply is irregular,
and manufacturers are unwilling to bid for
them. Prices are not quoted. N.S.W. Agri-
culture Department will advise you as to
best varieties to plant.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Pigologist”: Potatoes are of little value
as a general food for pigs, but for topping
them off they-are-better than anything else.
('coked, of course; uncooked spuds have
little value owing to deficiency in fat, cal-
cium and iron. Maize and skim-milk should
form the bulk of the feed for the Australian
pig. For topping him off, cooked spuds
should be fed from four to six weeks before
marketing. Bloom, if required, can be sup-
plied by the addition of a handful of pre-
pared oilcake per pig per day to the feed.
“Northdown” : When boiling food for the
pigs you won’t have to keep an eye on it
if you have a gadget to lift your boiler up
and off the fire before it has boiled dry. Put
a post in the ground about 4ft. high, and
get a spar about 18ft. long, round, and
about 4in. in diameter. Place spar across
top of post so that it balances exactly, bore
a hole through it, or drive an iron sp.ke
through hole or into top of post. Hang
your boiler by a chain to 0.. e end of spar,
till with what you want to boil, and half-
lill with water; then weight the other end of
spar to balance. Now fill your boiler with
water, which will bring it down on the fire
you have lit. Place a three-cornered chock
on top of post behind the iron spike from
boiler and under spar. As the water boils
away the weighted end of the spar will come
down, bringing the rounded side of the pole
just behind the iron spike on the steep side
of the chock. As the spar slides down this
it will swing slightly and lift the boiler
away from the fire.
“Deokay”: To preserve bags left over
from the ’ harvest, hang them over a pole
suspended at each end by a wire from the
ridge-pole of a shed or convenient tree. If
outside, they should, of course, be covered
with galvanised iron or old bags dressed with
crank-case oil. This method of hanging will
prevent destruction by rats and mice, and
if sulphur is dusted over each layer weevils
and other pests will not injure the bags.
“Tena” : Semi-intensive houses for laying
fowls are favored by more ami more. poultry-
farmers. A man I know believes in clean-
ing out the houses every three months. He
puts over a foot of rice husks in the bottom
and the droppings work downward. In
houses that accommodate 300 hens it is sel-
dom necessary to open the doors; the eggs
are lifted from the outside.
“Jack Point”: Eggs should be gathered
very often in the summer months, and on
no account should male birds be allowed
with the layers. Nests should be kept
clean; straw will encourage vermin, so use
very coarse sand or shell-grit. And dirty
eggs should be washed. It is frequently
stated that washing detracts from the value
of an egg and impairs its keeping qualities,
but this is open to question. Undoubtedly
a washed egg is to be preferred to a dirty
one.
“Wandi” : If you are in doubt about mush-
rooms, a simple way to distinguish the edible
sorts from poisonous fungi is to sprinkle a
little salt on the gills. If they turn yellow
they are poisonous; if they turn black
they are wholesome.
“Deelcay”: When building the new horse-
yard, make it round or oval in shape. Where
there are no corners the timid horse cannot
be cornered and kicked by the fighter.
“Mulyan”: To replace a post in a rail
fence, dig out the old one from one side, so
that it can be pulled over far enough to
release the rails on each side from the mor-
tices. Insert the rails in the new post at
the same angle, and then shove the post up
into position. This avoids cutting down the
end of the rails on one side to make them
slip back enough to clear the mortice 4n the
opposite post.
“Gumblegubbin”: Keep the watering
places free from bog, and the cows will not
come into the bail muddied. A load or two
of gravel or small stones and sand will
keep them clean.
Of decided interest to men and women on
the land in Queensland, and not in Queens-
land alone, is the ninth edition of Queensland
Pastoral Supplies’ catalogue. It is illus-
trated and crammed with information. In-
cidentally, the Q.P. concern manufactures
barb-wire, tanks, troughing and stock licks,
and distributes cottonseed meal for the
Queensland Cotton Board. With many of
its customers it adopts a system of
barter —buys their wool, sheepskins and
hides, and supplies goods to the value. The
co. is now extending its building to make
room for a tobacco-grading store. Next
season it will grade tobacco and advance
money against all consignments. Any Bul-
letin reader can get the catalogue on appli-
cation.
“Cockyson”: Of late years the bar (the
ordinary post-hole punching variety) has
been favored by sugar-farmers in some
Queensland localities for planting in new
scrub land. The reverse end is driven down
to the required depth, perpendicularly os
slanting a bit. wobbled from side to side and
withdrawn, the hole being wide enough to
receive the plant. In well-soaked, stone-
less ground the hole may be punched with a
single stroke ; in stiff soils and stony ground,
two, three, four or more strokes may be
required. From 300 to 350 holes an hour
can be put down in stoneless ground; from
200 to 250 where the .sinking is bad. In
well-saturated alluvial and volcanic soils
where there are no hindering rocks or stones,
a good man can average 3000 holes a day
with the bar, as aeainsf 1100 or thereabouts
with spade or mattock.


DOUBLE
GEARED
w
BETTER IN EVERY WAY
For Australian Conditions
Those thinking of installing a Windmill Pumping
riant should get the descriptive folder of Our latest
model.
Billabong Windmill
A totally encased mill, with several special features,
including Double Gears, Ball Bearings on the Main
bhaft. Ball Bearing Race on the Tower Cap,
thoroughly Self Oiling.
WROUGHT-IRON PIPES AND FITTINGS.
ALL SIZES AT LOWEST PRICES.
SELF
OILING
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
•591-403 BOL'RKE STREET, JfELBOIBNE,
" 524-330 PITT. STREET, SYDNEY.
C.l.
I
H
ijmjM
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, Sydney, three years’ exp. dispensing for
country doctors, wants position.—42 Bl.
Young lady, N.fe'.W., kindergarten and primary
teaching exp., wants position as governess, daily or
otherwise. —4254.
Young man (Vic.), public-school education, exp.
cattle, horses and sheep, wants job as jackeroo.
—4310.
Sheep station overseer (40), Q’land, single,
returned soldier, lifelong exp. stock, hetd two posi-
tions long periods, requires position.—433s.
Gardener, N.S.W., handy with tools, station, city
and tableland exp., vegetables, flowers, fruit, spray-
ing, pruning, etc., seeks employment. Refs. —4253.
To buy “The Cactace®,” four vols., by W. L.
Britton and J. N. Rose.- —4255.
To buy in Sydney cabinet for filing drawings 30in.
square. —4319.
To buy tenor songs “Down the Vale” and “My
Dreams,” and monologues “Devil May Care” and
“Green Eye of -Yellow God.” —4316.
To buy correspondence course on advertising.—
4369.
Words of “The Russian March,” by Henry Lawson.
—4261.
Words of Digger ditties “When We’ve Wound-up
the Watch on the Rhine,” “Jolly Good Luck to the
Girl Who Loves a Soldier,” “Oh, It’s a Lovely
War” and “Take Me Back to Dear Old BliglVy.'’
—4290.
Information Sought.
(1) Must I pay Unemployment Relief Tax
to the Q’land Government on income derived
(a) from other States of the Common-
wealth, (b) from Great Britain? (2) Must
I pay State income tax on (a) or (b> ?
(3) Must I pay Commonwealth income tax
on (b)f (4) If I am liable for tax on (b),
is it payable on the sterling amount or upon
the amount received in Australian currency?
—4182.
(1) No. (2) No. (3) Yes, unless tax
is paid on that income tax in Great Britain.
(4) On the amount received in Australian
currency, if taxable.
(1) How is the position of a guarantor of
a mortgage affected by the Stevens Govern-
ment’s amendments to the N.S.W. Mora-
torium Act? (2) Name of a publication
explaining the new Act, where procurable
and price? —427B.
(1) The guarantor is liable under his
guarantee, and if lie wants time to pay lie
must go to the Moratorium Court and ask
for it. (2) “The N.S.W. Moratorium Act
1932,” by Eric Clegg, 25., any bookseller.
At the annual meeting of shareholders of
a co-operative society I asked for the price
at which a branch store had been sold. The
chairman ref used to divulge the information.
/ moved that his ruling be disagreed with
and this was seconded, but the chairman
refused to accept the motion. 1 then moved
suspension of consideration of balance-sheet
until my previous motion was dealt with.
This was seconded, but the chairman rejected
the motion, though other members rose on a
point of order and asked that the motions
should be submitted to the meeting. (1)
What is my remedy? (2) Books on the sub-
ject. where obtainable and price?— 42l7.
(1) The chairman is bound to allow 7 all
resolutions and amendments relevant to the
business the meeting w r as convened to con-
sider. His refusal to do so will invalidate
the proceedings. In “Henderson v. Bank
of Australasia” it was held that certain re-
solutions which had been passed could not be
allowed to stand because the chairman pre-
vented a material question from being-
brought before the meeting. You could test
the validity of the resolutions passed by
legal action, but this would involve consider-
able expense. (2) Crew’s “Procedure at
Meetings” (published at about 10s. Cd.), if
obtainable, should serve your purpose.
(1) How arc delegates appointed to the
council of the Australian Lawn Tennis Asso-
ciation? (2) What are the association’s
powers and functions as incorporated in its
constitution ?■ —4294.
(1) They are appointed by the State asso-
ciations, two for each State. A president, in
addition, is appointed by the 12 delegates.
(2) The council is entrusted with the gov-
ernment of tennis in Australia, interprets
the rules and regulations as laid down by
the International Tennis Federation, arranges
Davis Cup and other international teams’
matches and tours in Australia or away,
and generally governs the game, the State
associations controlling all domestic matters.
Can money be borrowed from the Q’land
Btate Public Curator? —437o.
Yes, when there is a credit in his common
fund the Q’land State Public Curator can
lend money on first mortgage on freehold
property (town or country).
(1) Where can I get the training to
qualify as a ffieat inspector in N.8.W.? (2)
Would a butcher by trade have an advant-
age? (3) In the event of passing exams.,
what are the prospects of my obtaining a
position as an inspector? —424o.
(1) Sydney Technical College. (2) Yes.
(3) Very slight. Very few new appoint-
ments have been made in recent years.
I have a septic tank which has worked
perfectly for years and given no trouble. A
health officer, after inspecting it, tells me
that, though not full, it must be cleaned out.
Is this necessary or wise? If unwise, am
1 legally bound to obey his instructions? I
always understood that when once, the sur-
face layer of bacteria has been formed it
should never be interfered with. Is this
correct ? —4189.
The solid layer or scum which forms above
the liquid in a septic tank does not consist
of bacteria, but of insoluble matter from
the sewage. It contains millions of bacteria
which are engaged in liquefying the organic
matter in the scum. This action is not as
vigorous in the scum as in the semi-liquid
sludge which is formed at the bottom of the
tank by the insoluble solids which are
heavier than water. A considerable propor-
tion of the solid matter in both .scupi and
sludge remains in the tank after the bacteria
have consumed all that is subject to their
action, and when the amount of this residue
becomes sufficiently great to materially
reduce the water capacity of the tank it
must be removed, otherwise it is carried out
with the liquid effluent from the tank, and
chokes up the filter, drains or other means
of disposal of the liquid. The local authori-
ties in your State (Vic.) have full power
to compel you to clean out the tank. If a
gallon or two of sludge is left in the tank
When cleaning it, this will reseed the sewage
with bacteria, and there will be no serious
interruption of their action in “digesting”
the solid matter received in the tank.
(1) W hat is the age limit for entrance to
the Royal Military College or Naval Train-
ing College? (2) / am nearly 21; have 1
any chance of obtaining an entrance? (3)
In what way, apart from the R.M.C., can
one train for an officer in the army? Can
one rise to a commissioned: rank by joining
a unit of the volunteers? —4oo2.
(1) and (2) Royal Naval College, 13;
Royal Military .College between 16 and 19.
The regulations also provide for members
of the forces who are over 19 being admitted
to the Royal Military College. Particulars
may be obtained from the Base Comman-
dant, Victoria Barracks, Paddington, N.S.W.
(t*! Members who are serving in the Citizen
Military Forces may qualify for commis-
sioned rank. Should you desire to join
apply to the nearest drill hall.
(1) May the owner of a vessel carry pas-
sengers to sea without holding a Board of
trade certificate? (2) Is it possible to
lease an island inside the Barrier Reef *
—4212. ''
(1) N vessel carrying passengers must be
certificated and commanded by an officer
holding the appropriate certificate of com-
petency. (2) Particulars could be obtained
by reference to the Marine. Board and Lands
Department, Brisbane.
Particulars of competition promoted by
the trustees of the Godfrey Rivers Trust
for a work of art to be presented to the
Queensland Rational Art Gallery?— 432l.
Entries arc to consist of water-colors,
oils or sculpture, the work of an Australian
artist who has resided in Australia for not
less than five years, or an Australian artist
temporarily and executed within
the two years prior to June 15, 1933. All
works must be delivered to the trustees
through G. Gough and Son, Albert-street
Brisbane, by June 15, 1933. Unsuccessful
entries will be returned. The prize will
amount to not less than £BO and the selected
work will become the property of the trus-
tees for presentation tfe the National Art
Gallery. Opportunities for sale of other
works will be given at an exhibition.
How is casein wade, and hate formed into
sheets suitable for stamping out ornaments?
—4lBB.
Skimmed milk or buttermilk is heated to
from 17f>dog. F. to 195 deg., when sulphuric
or hydrochloric acid is added until it no
longer causes precipitation. The precipitate
is then washed to free it from residual lac-
tose, redissolved in a sodium carbonate solu-
tion, and again precipitated, this time by
lactic acid. It is again washed, dried and
pulverised. It requires eight gallons of
skimmed milk to make lib. of dry casein. The
process of manufacturing into liard polished
articles is too involved for description here.
See Henley’s ‘‘Book of Recipes.”
How to remove ink stains from paper? —
4238.
Take equal parts of oxalic acid, citric
acid and tartaric acid, mix together, and dis-
solve in just enough water to give a clear
solution. Apply to the paper with a very
fine brush, and remove quickly with blotting
paper; repeat until clean, then apply clean
water, and blot as dry as possible. Try a
small part first.
(1) What is the price of a scat on the
Stock Exchange in Sydney? (2) When a
scat is sold, is the goodwill of the seller’s
connection included in the price? —424l.
(1) No fixed price, but all recent sales
have been made on the basis of £2OOO per
seat, and it is unlikely the committee would
permit a sale at a lower figure. (2) The
goodwill of the seller’s connection would not
he included in a sale price around the limit
of £2OOO. The usual procedure for a mem-
ber retiring from business is to sell his con-
nection at a figure inclusive of the price
of the seat itself. In the event of the death
of a member, with no partner to cari’y on
' the business, the purchaser of the deceased’s
seat would have an opportunity of acquiring
some of the business by establishing his office
in the same place.
How to oil-polish furniture ? —-4045.
Paint the wood, after it has been well
smoothed and wiped over, with warm raw
linseed oil. Hub it well in with a brush,
and leave for a day or two, when it should
appear'to be quite dry. Then take equal
parts raw linseed oil and oil of turpentine,
and begin to rub it into the wood with %
woollen cloth ; a little Vandyke brown or
burnt sienna may be added to the oil mix-
ture to give a slight darkening. Rub well
daily or at intervals until a nice appear-
ance is gained, and the wood appears to be
seasoned with the oil. The process is long
and arduous and is usually accelerated by
finishing off with wax polish.
What are the main, symptoms of enterop-
tosis in an adult? Does neurasthenia in its
symptoms resemble entero ptosis? —4o97.
Symptoms vary, but generally include in-
digestion, constipation and some nerve
trouble. The symptoms of neurasthenia and
enteroptosis can be very similar. Some
doctors say there is always a certain amount
of neurasthenia present in enteroptosis.
(1) What were the chryselephantine
statues of ancient Greece? (2) Who made
them? —8740.
(1) They were made entirely of gold and
ivory. The most famous were those of Zeus
at Olympia, and Athene at Athens. In
height these were respectively 50ft. and
60ft. The faces, legs, arms and all un-
covered portions of the body were of ivory,
and the dresses were of gold, highly wrought.
(2) All the great artists of Greece who
were contemporaries and pupils of Pheidias.
Have all political parties in Italy, except
the Fascist, been suppressed? What hap-
pened to the Liberal party? Did the leaders
of the suppressed parties remain in Italy?
—3758.
In November, 1926, the Fascist Govern-
ment put a ban on non-Fascist parties. The
Liberal party was not included, but was
not allowed to organise meetings or to pub-
lish newspapers. Most of the heads of the
Catholic, Socialist and Republican parties
went into exile. It was recently announced
that they might return.
Who v 'as the first composer (1) to use an
overture as introduction to an opera? (2)
To make his overture consist of themes from
the opera? —4lo4.
(1) The earliest Italian operettists intro-
duced their works with a short “sinfonia” or
“toccata.” The French composer Lully com-
posed longer introductions and fixed the
form of the now customary dramatic pre-
lude. Handel perfected the form originated
by Lully. Gluck went a step further by
giving the introductory music unity with
what was to follow. (2) Gluck originated
the practice, which Mozart continued and
developed. Weber recited entire arias from
the opera in his overtures, doing this much
more skilfully than Auber and Rossini.
Wagner, with whom leit-motifs were all im-
portant. used these in iiis overtures with
great effect.
How to rid a bakery of rats? I have tried
traps and many different poison baits. —4los.
Try keeping a fox-terrier. If that doesn't
end the trouble, you will have to make the
Premises rat-proof by providing concrete
floors, and lining the walls with flat gal-
vanised-iron.
Brief Answers.
E.8.L.; Write Fanfold and Co., 8S Pitt-
street, Sydney. .. . E.S.G.: A good method is described
at length in the “Woman's Minor” of 24/3/131,
4d. posted, this office....P.J.P.: First drain the tank’.
If it ia clean, the pump diaphragm is defective;...
M.P.R.: Description too vague. Send a rubbing.....
C.H.N.: The only artist of that name we can trace
has different initials. National P. E. Association
may stand for Painters-Etehers’ Association or
Society. If you sent the picture to the Director of
the National Art Gallery of N.S.W., he would
supply any information in his power.. . .G.T.: There
seems no need to worry. Of course, if the con-
stituents of a patent preparation are not published,
no one can say what good or harm may result.-
Massage sometimes helps certain kinds of paralysis. ~
J.L.: Lying on the back is the worst way, as it
brings the blood to the head. Sit up and apply
cold to the nape of the neck and to the bridge of
the nose in the form of cold water or ice. Chronic
nose-bleeding demands an examination, as it may
he a symptom of other trouble J.8.W.: The
treatment of asthma is still in the experimental
stage. Par. referred to appeared in Melb. “Sun”;
it is a resume of an article in the “British Medical
Journal.” Know of no similar work being done here.
G.B.Y.: Procure a copy of the latest “Common-
wealth Official Year-Book”. . . .F.D.A.: The manufac-
ture of fireworks and explosives by amateurs is pro-
hibited .... H.M.P.: It is a private organisation, and
it declines to make public the political affiliations of
its executive. .. .H.J.H.: Information not available in
Sydney....M.K.M.; None of the reference books avail-
able throws any light on the subject L.11.M.D.:
(1) and (2) About £lOOO. Submit full particulars
to a naval architect. (3) Very slight. (4) Good
market if you can furnish what is needed, but
get a conti act beforehand. (5) Depends on your
ability.... R.T. A.: Fanners and Settlers’ Assocja-
tion*of N.S.W., 7 O’Connell-street, Sydney.... L.N.:
There will be two eclipses of t the sun in 1933,
February 24 and August 21 ; only the latter will
be visible in Australia T.Y.; Adelaide is half-
an-hour and Perth two hours behind eastern standard
time (i.e., the time in Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane)... .D.G.: The Gascoyne River is a large
stream in Westralia entering the sea at
Shark Bay.. .. V.8.M.: There are eight “A”-class
broadcasting stations in Australia—two in Sydney,
two in Melbourne, and one each in Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth and Hobart T.M. : Christy
headed the batting averages for the last South
African tour, making 909 runs at an average of
39.52 and a highest score of 119. Morkel’s 150 n.o.
was the best score of the tour. . . .H.H.: The P. and
O. liners Strathnaver and Strathaird are the largest
vessels in the Australian trade. They are sister
ships with a weight of 22,500 tons gross and a speed
of 17 knots. The Mariposa and Monterey (Oceanic)
are the fastest, with a speed of 204 knots....
C.M.G.: T. Pearce (“Mine Host” of Mrs. AEneas
Gunn’s “We of the Never Never”) is living in
retirement at Aldgate, S.A C.K.: (1) Tauma-
runui (M.L.) is the centre of a prosperous farming
and timber district, the population being a little
over 2000. There is no brewery, as all that portion
of the North Island is under prohibition for the pro-
tection of the Maori people. The town has good
prospects of becoming an important centre, being
the junction of the new railway line from Stratford.
(2) For file year ended March 31, 1932, Govern-
ment revenue from taxation averaged £ll 9s. fid.
per head J.lv.: You might make a claim on, him,
but the prospect of recovery, should he dispute your
claim, would be remote and you would probably
only add to your 1055... .M.E.A.G.: All money in
excess of £5O to the credit of a pensioner’s oank
account must be taken into consideration in deter-
mining the pension rate. Communicate direct with
the Deputy-Commissioner, Invalid Pensions, Sydney,
setting out details. ...F.R.; Thoroughly wash with
a mixture of warm water and one of the powdered
cleansers to remove traces of smoke and as much
as possible of the old kalsomine-. Then allow the
walls to thoroughly dry, when the recoating may he
proceeded with. .. . 11. L.: English white gold, in parts
by weight: 750 parts gold, 150 parts silver and
100 parts copper; whiter, 750 parts gold, 170 parts
silver and 80 parts copper. Variations are obtained
by working on a. basis of 1000 parts, keeping the
gold at 750 parts and altering the proportions of
copper and silver to make up the balance to 1000
parts J.T.S.: In normal circumstances the pro-
visions of the Act extend to him automatically,
without recourse to a court W.M.R.: The consent
of the patentee ia necessary.... Coolamon: Five cub.
ft. ; 6s cub. ft. ; 20 5-6 cub. ft. Multiply the
three dimensions together F.A.8.: Write to the
Warden’s Clerk, Grenfell. .. .J.R.R. : Write Lecturer-
in-charge, Tanning School, Bourke-street, Waterloo,
Sydney R.D.C.: We can find no authentic record
of gelignite exploding of its own accord C.F.:
“Home Doctoring of Animals,” by 11. Leeiiev....
W.W.: (l) Anywhere between Tarwin and Lower
Tarwin opening into Anderson’s Inlet, or at North
Mirboo. (2) 84in. (3) Brown trout. .. .W.S.: Write
Local Government Examination Committees, 1.0.
Dept., Raphael-street, Sydney J.P.H.: No’ quick
method of cleansing. When the cask is empty,
expose the interior to sun and wind for two or
three hours, then fill up with water, and allow to
stand for several hours; empty out the water, and
again expose to the weather. Repeat (ill the cask is
sweet. .. .H.E.W.T. : As our smaller bats arc in-
sectivorous, feeding persistently 0 n mosquitoes,
destruction is not recommended. We suggest netting
the openings, as is done in Brisbane to keep out
sparrows... .M.F.: (l) E-on E-driss. (2) Welsh.
(3) Can't say. (4) Barnard (Many others
mailed.)


MEN AMONG
PEARLS
by
H. Drake-Brockman.
Synopsis : Christopher Kent, who has
been turned down by his cousin Lettice
on account of his poverty, comes to the
Broome pearling grounds, hoping to
make quick money and return to her.
June Goer, daughter of another
pearler, is greatly interested, in Chris;
but it is young Peter Fordyce, a
wealthy pearler, and not Chris, who is
interested in June. A letter from Let-
tice brightens Chris, but he fails to
notice her references to a : new male
friend. Chris, whose affairs have not
been going well, loses his diver
through paralysis.—a heavy blow.
Peter Fordyce proposes to June, but
she staves him off; and Peter turns
enthusiastically to a new scheme for
pooling pearl-shell. Goer alone amongst
the master-pearlers stands out of the
scheme, and June is upset by the ill-
feeling that follows. Chris, disturbed by
hearing that he and his partner are
heavily in debt to Fordyce, considers
putting the rest of his money into a
cattle-run owned by Ryce and Munro.
Friends warn him—too late —of the
character of these men. Chris, reading
English papers, sees the announce-
ment of Lettice’s marriage, and begins
to drink heavily.
CHAPTER XVI ( Continued ).
AT first numb formless thoughts wan-
dered through Chris’s brain; but
presently they took shape. It was
Lettice’s wedding-day. She had withdrawn
even the right to worship: no more could
he offer homage to a chaste and unapproach-
able Diana; she was another mans wile.
Even now she might be in his arms
Chris struggled up, wrenched through the
net and looked for his clothes. No longer
did he feel numb; images not to be endured
inflamed his mind. He had imagined hither-
to that already, long ago m London, he
had plumbed the depths of what a man
could suffer at the hands of a woman. But
he had not reckoned then with this final
torment of jealousy, this demon, green and
terrible as a fathomless sea, setting such
high price upon possession.
His subconscious mind recognised June
as he stumbled from his room; and because
she goaded him with recollection of the
form he was praying to forget, June was
the very last person in Broome he wished
to'see. He could not get away from her
quickly enough. . ~
All afternoon he stayed m the bar, talk-
ing to everyone who came in, drinking, do-
ing anything to escape the thoughts which
harried and tore and relentlessly pursued.
Ivy, the barmaid, unbound by strangling
conventions, entered into her kingdom be-
hind the screen which bade June stand back.
When she came on duty at five o’clock she
found Chris subsided on to a cane lounge
in the big billiard-room behind the bar. He
barely troubled to answer her bright greet-
ing. The omission would not have surprised
her in other men, but from him it sent her
off to work wondering. Hitherto his Punc-
tilious politeness had been a pleasure; Clnis
addressed her, she thought, in just the same
way as he’d speak to that June Goei—
which was more than that young lady s
father ever did. . ,
Soon Chris returned to the bar and leant
over the counter, demanding a double
whisky. He had lapsed into a kind of sul-
len stupor: Ivy could get no sense out of
him, and she noticed with a sensation akin
to alarm that he went on drinking by him-
self. She had never seen Chris do that
before, and he had been in and out a good
deal during the ten days he had remained
in port. She felt it wasn’t natural in him;
and her' experience had taught her that
when a man started tippling alone, it
generally meant the beginning of the end.
She went on being chatty and bright, but
her eyes and interest returned again and
again to Chris. Her look, resting on him,
grew more than ever wistful. She tried an
arch remark once or twice, but in the end
gave up endeavoring to help him shake off
his black mood. She grew curious, invented
a dozen different solutions whilst hands and
tongue were busy serving other men.
The dressing-gong boomed out —“dress-
ing” by courtesy, .though, to be sure, most
of the men changed into a fresher coat—
the dinner-gong followed. Chris made no
move. The publican dined, came in to
relieve Ivy. She leaned across to Chris and
murmured, “Aren’t you having any dinner,
Mr. Kent?”
Chris raised his head and looked at her
vaguely, as if he could focus neither sight
nor attention.
“No,” he replied, as though she asked an
absurdity.
All evening he remained in the bar, silent
in his corner. After dinner Ivy dared to
hint that he ha.d had as much as was good
for him. She did not get cursed as she fully
expected; he gave a queer laugh and said:
“Who cares!”
Just before closing-time he went out as
quietly as he had sat, without saying a
word. Swiftly Ivy crossed to the door and
peered into the moonlit night. She saw his*
white figure stumbling along the rail-track
which led down past the goods-shed to the
jetty. The droop of his shoulders, the slack-
ness of a carriage normally true to its army
tradition, caught at her heart. Like June,
she thought he looked lost.
Acting on a sudden impulse she ran in
search of the publican. “Joe,” she said,
“can I get off now?”
Her employer winked.
“None of your insinuations,” she retorted.
“Cut it out.”
Having gained an unbelieving laugh with
his consent, she hurried out into the street
just as she was and began to run after
Chris. She did not like the way he had
behaved all evening. Desperate over some-
thing he was. “Who cares?” he had said,
a,nd the tone of his voice came like a hope-
less echo from the past. She knew. She
had felt that way herself.
She hurried sufficiently to catch sight of
him going through the gate in the cattle-
race where it led, dark and menacing, in
the dim light of the dying moon, down
along the dark curve of the jetty. A tiny
hillock bounded the other side of the wide
dusty road, a mound covered in scrub, with
a grave or two whose headstones were
toppled to one side by the passage of time.
Ivy had scrambled up, one day soon after
her arrival, into that first tiny burial ground,
long since deserted for the cemetery out in
the pindan. Strange town to greet new-
comers with such a welcome as they stepped
ashore, she had thought then, not knowing
the graves had been there long before the
jetty, when Broome was no more than a
cluster of camps far up the creek. She had
peered at the names on the headstones. The
only one she knew was Forrest —a brother,
that one, of the solitary Australian peer,
and an explorer himself, resting his last
stage above the jade waters of Roebuck
Bay. Then there was a young officer from
an English gunboat, and, biiried with him,
the ashes of his dearest friend, sent from
England a quarter of a century later so
that in death they might be together. And
two men murdered by their colored crews;
a. woman; three babies, tiny pathetic sacri-
fices on the altar of Empire.
But Ivy had no thought now of the dead.
She scarcely noticed the light still burning
on the verandah of the last bungalow, or
heard the twang of an American coon yell-
ing a syncopated melody about Broadway
nights as she sped through the clear lumi-
nous night of Northern Australia. Her heart
beat fast through haste, faster with excite-
ment, she had so nearly caught up with
Chris. She wondered if she would be called
a fool for her pains; she racked her brains
for what to say.
Through the gate she pushed; down the
little track, between overhanging branches
of wattle-scrub, along which the gins daily
brought the white babies and children for
an afternoon walk on the beach; out on to
the shingle beach, red-stained by earth in
the daylight, an extraordinary, dull foil
now for a sea not even the dim light could
rob of its brilliant hue. The tide was mak-
ing. It rushed between the piles of the
jetty curving, gracefully on the left, a red
light glimmering at the end; it swished on
the beach, rustled among the mangroves on
the right, ruffled with pale lacy ruffles the
waves it sent sucking up the shore.
Ivy stared about. There was no sign of
Chris. She felt lonely and small. She
stifled an alarm she half-feared to be ridicu-
lous, and went on down the beach to the
right, where a low red soil-cliff cast a black
shadow on some sandstone rocks at its foot.
Her eyes were tricked by the shadow.
She came on the man she sought so sud-
denly that she parted back with a little cry.
To Chris, who had been sitting with head
in hands, mesmerised by drink and misery
and voice of the tide, her ciy came like a
sobering douche of icy water. By the time
he struggled to his feet he had command,
in a queer light-headed way, of both
thoughts and actions.
“I say,” he stammered, “you gave me a
shock! Anjdhing the matter?. What do
you want?”
Ivy felt immen-
sely foolish. She
was thankful for
the uncertain light,
which hid her con-
fusion : she could
hardly say she had
been afraid he
might do himself
some mischief. She
recovered herself
suffi cie n 11 y to
murmur that she
had come out for
a walk because she
couldn’t sleep and
wanted to get away by herself.
“Two of a kind!” . ,
Kent gave a short laugh, which strangled
in his throat, and Ivy felt foolish no longer.
She was glad she had come. She sat down
on a rock at his feet and waited: she guessed
that with his sort it would pay best to say
nothing. She felt terribly sorry for him;
a wave of maternal longing to com! ort
swept over her —the outline of his tmne -
away cheek reminded her of a child s as it
stood out stark against a. sky glowing like
a dark globe lit from within. That maternal
pity had been her downfall once; the dleptlis
she had then plumbed gave her confidence,
made her sure she could help this man
separated from her by every bar of birth
and education and country. There was only
one person in the world who could hint hei
now: she could come to no harm in holding
out a friendly hand to this man who was
facing defeat of some sort. .
In a little while Chris sat down beside
Her quietness soothed him. Her interest
and sympathy made itself felt, though still
she said nothing. A decent sort ol gm,
he thought; and he wondered, in his queer
light-heartedness, if he had made an awful
ass of himself.
“I say,” he began, then stopped, lne
reticence of years was not easily discarded,
even though the caressing, secretive, inti-
mate mantle of night surrounded them. He
would have liked to let loose the whole
bitter tide which was swamping his being
as surely as the incoming sea was engulfing
the mangroves at their feet. But habit was
too strong. He could not tell any woman,
whoever she was or however sympathetic
that to-night his beloved became the bride
of another man; he could not lay Lettice
open to judgment by anybody else, however
much she deserved it; he must hide the
shallowness of her from every eye, though
it kill him.
He tried again; perhaps Ivy could dis-
tract him, if he gave her an opening. ‘I
say, you know,” he said, “it’s a bit unusual
for a girl to come down here on her own —
are you sure I am not in the way ? , He
won’t come round the comer suddenly?”
“Honest —I meant what I said. I’m not
having a meet.”
Chris .expressed surprise at her wanting
to get away by herself; she was far too
nice a girl for that! She must not expect
to be able to do that sort of thing in
Broome, where there were three or four men
to every woman —it wasn’t fair.
“I’m not that cheap sort!” Ivy flung at
him.
“Of course not,” Chris hastened to say.
“I only meant that you must expect to find
people looking for your society. I thought
from the moment I saw you that you were
different from the usual run of girls they
get at the pubs.”
“Lots in the union are all right.” replied
Ivy, “though lots are rough as bags. I
wasn’t brought up to the bar meself. I
don’t really cotton to it much, but I’ve got
to make good money, and it’s the best
way, barring the sort of thing I’d never do.
I’ve got a little daughter to think about,
Chris—-does that surprise you?”
Ivy’s low voice tingled with pride. For
the moment, in delight at finding somebody
in whom she cared to confide, she forgot
her self-appointed role of comforter. “Six
she is, with curly hair and lovely big brown
eyes.”
Six years old. Her words struck at Chris.
Six years now since he had seen Lettice!
He said: “Then she must be like her
mother ”
“Well, thank God she’s not like him!
This time her voice awoke an answering
note; in its ring Chris caught an echo of
his own distress.
“Why?” he asked. “Tell me about your-
self, Ivy.”
“Oh, it’s nothing much.” Ivy remembered
she had not come for the purpose of impart-
ing confidences. “It wouldn’t interest you.”
“But it would.” Kent’s eyes tried to find
the girl in the darkness beside him, but
she was no more than a blurred shadow
darker than the rest, Anything, anything,
he thought, to make him forget, to blot
from his mind the seductive beauty of the
night, the caress of the breeze like kisses
on his cheek, the intolerable pictures of his
imagination.
“Tell me.”
“Oh, well.” Perhaps, she thought
swiftly, if she told him it might help to
distract him.... And it would be nice to
tell him, too; she had never put it into
words before. “I was brought up in the
country,” she said. “And, like plenty more,
got sick of it and went up to Perth. I went
into service, and had lots of diffeient jobs,
and went around to pictures and dances and
had quite a good time—though I wasn t
ever free with the boys; I’d no time for that
kind of thing. Then I got the oner of a
. good place as a waitress in a country pub
high wages—you know. I thought I’d go
and save up; I’d always dreamed of travel-
ling round, and I thought I might be able
to save up enough to go over East. And
then, like most other girls, I reckoned to
get married some day—l always was fond
of kiddies; I suppose that’s one reason why
the boys all said I was cold! Well, the
wages were good all right. But the place!
You ever been in a one-horse cocky town,
Chris?”
“ I think I can imagine”
“I bet you can’t. Broome’s a gay city
compared to the spot I was in. One pub,
one store, a hall, and the deadliest crowd
of go-slows j r ou ever saw. The farmers were
all right, when we set eyes on them—about
once a month. There wasn’t anything at
all to do; not even pictures in the hall.
Commercials blowing through were the only
break. The other girls all had their boys,
and used to get a bit of life going motor-
rides whenever anybody offered them one.
I used to sit in my room and read till I
got sick of it. I often thought I’d chuck
it, but the way my money kept piling up
in the savings bank kept me there. I
reckoned I could stick it out for eighteen
months.
“I said ‘the other girls.’ Well, the cook
was about fifty, face and short hair like a
man, with as filthy a tongue as a bullocky;
but she was a good cook and thick as
thieves with the barman—they didn’t keep
a girl there to dish out the drinks. Then
there was the other waitress' and a house-
maid. But they were both a lot older than
I was—and a lot, hotter. They were kind
enough, and used to take me to their picnics
until I refused to go any more —I fancied
myself a. bit!” Ivy gave a strangled laugh.
“Well, there was a fellow used to live
at the pub. Worked in the bank. He began
by lending me books when I said I’d got
nothing left to read. Then I started mend-
ing his socks, —he seemed as lonely as I
was. Then in the winter he’d sometimes
come to my room with a book and we’d
start talking You can guess, Chris. I
I loved him, and I found out I wasn’t any
better than the others when he started to
put the hard word on me. I thought he
was such a fine feller. My God! It was
pretty enough while it lasted, but presently
I discovered something had happened. I
told him. And d’you know what he did?
Cursed me for a fool, said I should have
been more careful, that he was a married
man with a wife and family over East! And
I’d thought he’d marry me!
“Well, anyway, he cleared out. He was
speaking the truth—l took the trouble to
find out that much. He didn’t leave me
even a penny; said he needed it all for his
missus.” .
“The damned swine!” interrupted Chris.
“Why didn’t you get the law on to him?”
“Oh, I had that money saved up for my
trip—l wasn’t taking any he’d be forced to
give. A trip—my God! I had it all right.
But at first I was so unhappy I’d have liked
to die. I had to leave the pub—l couldn’t
have all the others finding out and laugh-
ing at me. I took’ another place for a bit —
and then, in the end, I got Rosie. She was
a darling baby! I’m glad it was a girl. I'll
see she doesn’t get taken in. I stayed with
her for six months in the Home, and then
I put her out with a foster-mother. Now
she’s at a convent-school, doing fine. And
she’s going to be brought up just lovely.
I took on bar work then, it’s better money ”
Ivy fell silent, thinking of her child. If
only she could feel Rosie in her arms for
one moment.
Chris moved a foot restlessly. What a
miserable little tale! “I wonder you haven’t
got married,” he said for the sake of saying
something.
“Get married!” cried Ivy. “Never! For
some rotten man to leave me and get an-
other girl into trouble! Breed brats for
him when he wouldn’t have anything to do
with my Rosie? Not on your life, I won’t!
But, Chris, I do get lonely sometimes—if
only I had Rosie with me I wouldn’t, but
I can’t ever have her at all, if she is to be
brought up proper. She is just a darling,
I wish I could show her to you. It beats
me how some girls turn their kids down,
however much they hate the fathers. It
isn’t any more natural than it is to think,
like I did, that we can live without a bit
of company.” She stopped abruptly. Then
very softly she said: “I rfeckon you’re just
as lonely as I am, Chris.”
Rent heard a little movement, and was
conscious from the warmth at his side that
she leant towards him. Half-mechanically
he put out a groping hand and his arm
slipped around a supple waist. Ivy s weight
rested on his elbow; suddenly she ceased
to be merely a voice speaking in the dark-
ness, she became soft and human. It was
long since his hands had adventured the
softness of a woman: this girl felt delicious.
Lettice—that did not bear thinking of; m
haste to thrust memory from his conscious-
ness Chris bent, and found himself kissing
Ivy’s upturned lips.
Later he thought: “We are just two bits
of flotsam cast up on the beach at
Broome”
CHAPTER XVII.
Queenie Gets Her Pearls.
It was Queenie’s string of pearls which
finally loosed the hounds of scandal and
set every tongue baying. She said the.
were a birthday present
Christopher Kent had been gone for thiee
weeks before the stir began. June saw him
once again, when he paid a formal sort oi
call and spent the time argoing witlrGap;
tain Goer over the merits of the Vandm


0/4
C Oyu
s< ;s the Stafidaril
for all-round
perfo
r mance
Prill up at the
VACUUM P„ mp
t Red with the
Band
P3S
velde shell scheme. Silently she supplied
the two men with drinks, and sat apparently
listening in absorbed interest while all the
time she studied Chris until the image of
his face, his eyes—did she miss something?
were they less vital than before?—the dark
hair with its sprinkle of grey, the sensitive
mouth with its faint droop, were stamped
upon her brain as a king’s head is stamped
upon the coinage of his realm. Yet she
did not dare meet his eyes at parting; she
offered no more than one flutter of blue
irises, wondering, hoping, praying that her
fingers might return to his the surge the
clasp sent swirling through her veins. But
he went away unmoved, leaving only the
memory of a smile which seemed to June
like a friendly pat on the head of a small
girl.
Peter Fordyce’s interest in his business
began to wear thin; the struggle was over.
The scheme would float now, though
whether it would develop into a victorious
fleet remained to be seen. And he had long
since tired of letting Mrs. Tweedie imagine
himself enraptured by her charm; no longer
did lie feel capable of spending his nights in
dreaming of June, his days in avoiding her.
And he knew she was not happy: the depths
of his devotion made him acutely conscious
of a dimming of her eagerness, of a loss
of verve; he dared to hope that she had
missed him. Yet it would not be easy to
take up the threads of friendship where
they had been dropped. For one thing,
the Captain and he had experienced a con-
siderable cooling off.
Fordyce had done his best to preserve an
amicable attitude, thinking always of June.
But other men took up the cudgels on his
behalf; unfortunately the one man who had
heard Goer tell Peter that he would at any
time be ready to join in a shell scheme
came in from the pearling grounds and soon
broadcast his information. There followed
a lively scene one evening at the meeting
of the Tennis Club committee. For some
reason Goer was absent, whereupon various
of the members raised their voices and
declared that it amounted almost to a pub-
lic duty to refuse to play with him—he
should be ostracised, made to feel how
small-minded and selfish was his determina-
tion not to sign the shell-contracts.
Fordyce temporised, but hot words flew.
Peter smiled over the affair next day and
was on his way to regale Mr. Montgomery
with all the tid-bits, when he beheld Goer
arrive at the courts. The Captain bounced
out of his car and swung up to the very
man who had most reviled him the night
before. “How about a set?” said Goer;
and the other went for his racket meek as
a lamb. Peter shrugged his shoulders for
his own benefit, and laughed.
Yet he knew he had lost, for the time
being, his free and easy right of entry to
the Captain’s bungalow. It was difficult to
see much of June without arranging parties
and picnics which suited neither purpose nor
mood. He was driven to writing; but he
tore the letters up and threw them away:
too easy for her to reply coldly. He rang
up a few times, hungry for sound of her
voice, and sometimes he imagined she
sounded pleased.
But June was so utterly immersed in a
suddenly colorless world wherein she
struggled alone, and into which ’she would
not ask even Uncle Monty to enter, that
she really paid little attention to any-
body.
Her father decided she must need a holi-
day, a change of air. He set about making
arrangements without a word to her: he
could do with a trip himself—they would
go South quite soon. Meantime Queenie,
in her own words, “got fed up' with June.”
To be sure, Queenie thought she knew what
was wrong; but why worry over one man’s
stupidity when even to the most innocent
observer Peter Fordyce was madly in love?
But she said nothing: June was not readily
approached on such subjects when they held
a personal significance.
Mr. Montgomery felt hurt—June seemed
to have forgotten him.
And then, swiftly, her apathy was rudely
shaken. In one terrible hour the slowly dis-
solving but still precious veils of illusion
weie torn from June’s eyes, and she stared
horror-struck, at a reality made stark and
hideous by the bright rags of her eager
faith, mocking as a dancer’s scarf upon the
limbs of a putrefying corpse.
Queenie s pearls caused that final rend-
ing. She had them at last, just as Ah Chi
the pearl-cleaner, had said ’ she would, if
only she wanted them enough. And who
could possess pearls and not wear them?
Very pretty they were, exactly the small,
pei feet, pure-white stones a young girl
should wear, good but not wonderful, though
they would be likely to fetch a nice little
sum away from Broome. Queenie longed
for earrings to match.
She wore them a great deal; and when
people commented, asking where they came
from, she rolled her roguish eyes at the
curious ones and said: “Wouldn’t, you like
to know?, Well, they’re a birthday present,
¥ou didn t know I had an admirer who had
been saving them up for years, did you?
Hes outside just now—so I’ll leave you to
go on guessing.” And she would whisk off
with her provocative smile, the little pearls
winking round her soft throat,
No one believed her except June June
was too young not to be enchanted by,the
pearls She tried them on: they became her
so well that she, too, remembered Ah Chi’s
words and asked her father when he was
going to give her a string.
“I like that!” shouted Goer. “They’re
our bread and butter, girlie, don’t you
forget.”
But lie took a pair of buttons down to
Ah Chi, and the very next day June pos-
sessed earrings. And Queenie, for some
reason or other, seemed quite annoyed.
Mrs. Tweedie it was who first openly said
it. Her own pearls had lain unused for
some days. It really was too much, she
said, to be faced by that chit of a girl
wearing her ill-gotten jewels at every pub-
lic function—too much altogether! And of
course those pearls made it quite impos-
sible for her to wear her own. That girl
was the only woman in Broome with a
real string—just think of it! Most of the
ladies had beautiful rings, of course, and
brooches and earrings, but she could not
think of a single necklace other than
Queenie’s.
Mrs. Tweedie still smarted at recollection
of the way in which the girl had looked
through her when they met in the street
soon after her “afternoon.” Impertinence!
>Jie might not have asked Queenie to her
party, but that gave the chit no right to
ignore the gracious bow she felt obliged to
bestow as the Resident’s wife. She should
have said nothing about Goer, she knew it;
but Alfred had merely grunted unsym-
pathetically when she had poured forth her
tale to him—she had not been at all able
to unburden her soul of its righteous wrath.
If Alfred Tweedie hated her. to talk to
other women, he should at least agree with
her and so let her get some relief from her
feelings. As for Captain Goer, she had seen
him get up and leave the hall the last time
she sang in public. That was a wound
Mrs. Tweedie would not uncover even to
her own gaze; once men had sat entranced.
She wrapped the ugly tear in flimsy ban-
dages made of Goer’s notorious rudeness—
an impossible man, my dear! —and pre-
tended not to feel the sa.p of life seeping
unstanched away.
June never remembered who actually told
her. Perhaps no one did, perhaps she just
picked it up out of an atmosphere tainted
by inference and innuendo, just as she knew
the women were talking about confinements
and birth-control and such things when they
dropped their voices and glanced to see if
she or any of the other girls were listening.
June never tried to. Those furtive voices
gave her a shiver down the spine, had tar-
nished a little the brightness of her youth-
lul veils before ever they were ripped to
shreds. These things were—one did not
talk about them. The levity of the women
disgusted her. Queenie laughed at it.
On that most dreadful afternoon Queenie
was not with June, who, after she got homo,
sat huddled on a lounge for a long time'
She went to the telephone at length, and
rang through to see if she could speak to
Queenie herself. She must know the truth.
The girl was out; her mother promised to
send her along to the Goers as soon as-
she came in. June went back •to the
verandah.
Anxiously the cook-boy asked if Missi
would like a cup of tea. She said no,
mechanically. He inquired if she would
be alone for dinner.
“Yes,” replied June. “No. I mean I
don t want any. Oh, go away, Toko • I no
want anything.”
Toko shuffled back to the kitchen uncon-
vinced. He would cook some very nice din-
ner. The Missi was a favorite qf his. She
must have an ache in the head, she looked
so white, so dark under her two eyes that
were like the sky.
(To be continued next week.)


“OUR HANDS MAKE GOOD ARMS!”
Repairs. Firearms sent C.O.D.
PRESERVE FROM RUST
THE GUN YOU TRUST.
Sil Rohu’s NO RUST GUN-RIFLE OIL
preserves the bore, mechanism and
steelwork. Specially suitable for .303
Rifles. Nozzled Cans, 1/3; postage,
4d.
Sil Rohu’s NITRO SOLVENT OIL.
Specially prepared for removing
barrel fouling, powder residue, lead
and nickelling. Nozzled Cans, 1/3;
postage, 4d.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith. Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Taokle Specialist,
143 b ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Market Street). ’Phone: MA3540.
“FISHING TACKLE TO TACKLE FISHING .”
*
<o
£
a
It pays you to
test your tyres
regularly once a
week—test them
with the All-
British Kismet
Tyre Gauge.
The Kismet Tyre Gauge is the most scientific
and accurate tyre gauge on the market. It is as
beautiful as it is accurate.
The calibrated hexagonal scale is easy to read—
the pressure being recorded m large figures an
rising in individually calibrated lib. units.
The external design makes it easy to fit the
gauge squarely on the tyre valve.
Supplied in neat leather wallet of handy vest-
pocket size.
Price
12/6
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne, C
Am r.n |
JIBuiRIEAH CT
Has a Greater
Circulation and a
Greater Number of
Home Deliveries
Than Any Queensland Daily
Newspaper.
The
Sunday Mail
Brisbane
This great newspaper goes into the homes of
the people of Brisbane when they have leisure
to read It is a journal of chararter and
distinction and presents features that appe
to every member of every household.
want to fully cover the Brisbane market at
small cost, this is your paper.
Kates and other particulars from
ROBT. JACKSON, .
72 Pitt Street, Sydney. Phone. 8152 .
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
There was a calamitous ending to the
weight-for-age St. George Stakes on the open-
ing day of the V.A.T.C. autumn meeting.
On the strength of his C. F. Orr Stakes vic-
tory, Liberal went out at 6 to 4. He had
the race practically won half-way down the
straight, but immediately afterwards the
suspensory ligament of his off-foreleg went
and Jim Munro had to dismount from the
Windbag colt, whose injured limb was pain-
fully swinging. This means the end of
Liberal as a racehorse, but he may be saved
for stud purposes. Kuvera took charge when
the disaster occurred. Challenged by Eastern
Chief, he failed by half a head to stall off
the Leger candidate. Braeburn was never
sighted; but he started at 50 to 1.
“ Mick Poison is unfortunate in rich sprint
races on Melbourne courses. Last autumn
he went for a race-day plunge on Winooka
for the Newmarket Handicap and had the
mortification of seeing the Windbag stallion
vanquished by Lady Linden. Plenty of 20
to 1 was obtainable about Winooka when
betting ceased on the Oakleigh Plate; it may
be assumed that Poison and the two Sydney
bookmakers for whom he trains did not bet
heavily on this occasion. All the same,
they would be chagrined at Winooka failing
by a head to overhaul Ibrani. It was a
wonderful finish, Ibrani lasting long enough
to stall off the terrific challenge from his
Sydney rival. Closing Time, the 7-to-4
favorite, was three-quarters of a length
farther off. Ibrani ran the 5-1- furlongs in
lmin. 4£sec., which is an Australian record,
the previous best being lmin. by Per-
E>£RT’."“THE BATSMAG WANTS THE
Board moved?
Gert’. "What for ?"
e>ERT ’ " It's out of place".
Gert ;" Oh, is that -the board
OF CONTROL ? VV
spective in the Oakleigh Plate of 1926. St.
Ardent did fairly well, but of the unplaced
division Valmist was the most impressive.
He finished very fast, after being a consider-
able distance from the leaders.
Bond Cup running points to Metallurgy
being very hard to beat in the Australian
Cup. This Rossendale colt let his backers
down in poor company at Ascot on the pre-
vious Tuesday, but the distance (a mile)
was too short for him and Metallurgy was
unsuited by the galloping conditions on the
V.T. and R.A. course. After the race his
owner-trainer, King, expressed unabated con-
fidence in the Cup prospects of Metallurgy,
whom he pronounced a true stayer. Never
far from the front, Metallurgy answered
gamely to the calls of his apprentice rider in
the straight, but lost ground by hanging m
badly. He came again, squeezed through
between Nokila and Oratory and appeared to
just win on the post. The judge, however,
declared for Oratory by a head; Nokila was
only half a neck farther off. Metallurgy has
only 6.7 in the Australian Cup, and will be
admirably suited by the 2i miles. Oratory
is raced by his breeder, Sol Green, and
promises to do Verbius great credit as a
sire. The favorite, E. A. Connolly’s Dark
Man, shaped moderately.
Maid of Orleans put up a Caulfield record
for five furlongs when she captured the first
division of the Federal Stakes for juveniles.
She covered the distance in exactly a
minute. Heroic’s daughter has won four races
in succession. Shakuni ran third; odds of 10
to 1 were procurable. The second favorite,
L’Elite, with Duncan atop, got away poorly
and never was dangerous. Miramond, on
whom a big plunge was made at Williams-
town, again disappointed J. T. Jamieson.
This Limond colt has a lot of pace, but is
still green.
Runners in the second division of the
Federal Stakes included the last Maribyr-
nong Plate winner, Rapsonia. There were
other good ’uns in the field, such as Hap,
Chief Mate and Chief Mark; but punters re-
garded Hall Mark as a stone certainty, and
C. B. Kellow's colt went out at evens. This
rush was due to the son of Heroic making a
splendid display at Williamstown on Feb.
11, when unfancied by the stable. Duncan
used the utmost of his skill and strategy
to try to get Hall Mark to the front, but
he was never nearer than fourth. Melason
had control at the half-distance, where Snow-
acre came like a bolt from the blue, equal-
ling the record set up by Maid of Orleans
in the previous race. Snowacre (Snowfire —
Dame Acre) is held on lease by W. Tindall
from D. U. Seaton.
Frank McGrath produced Prismatic for
the Warrein Hurdle. The Rossendale geld-
ing helped Hazward to make the pace until
the home turn was reached, when he com-
pounded. The provincial sportsman who
owns Hazward selected an unfortunate time
to plank his cash on that horse; Hazward
struck a snag in Kunama, who may develop
into a Grand National hero. His sire, Egypt,
is a full-brother to Desert Gold.
Next Saturday, the 36tb Caulfield Futu-
rity Stakes will come on for decision.
Although some of the nominators had to
subscribe £5O each to start for a £2lOO stake,
this event retains its popularity, and thero
were 14 final acceptors. Chatham heads
the list with lOst. 31b. Better horses have
failed with a smaller impost; but, generally
speaking, the field is not high-class. _ A. E.
Blair, owner of the Windbag stallion, be-
lieves that Chatham will have benefited by
the fortnight’s rest since he made a dead-
heat for second in the C. F. Orr Stakes at
Williamstown. He says that the bay had
only one mile gallop before he left Sydney,
but Fred Williams has given his charge
plenty of track work in the Victorian capital.
Fancies: —
Futurity Stakes: Winooka; next, Chat-
ham. .
Woodcliffe Handicap: Topical; next,
Ruach. , ,
Hawksburn Handicap: Jacko; next,
Merab.
* * * *
“Cetigne”: Old-time jockey Sammy Crack-
nell died, at 86, the other day at Panton
Hills (Vic.), where he had an orchard. A
picturesque little chap with bright red
whiskers, Sam won the 1879 Melbourne Cup
on Darriwell, the first Moonee Valley Cup
(18S3) on Castaway, the Sydney Cup on
Cunnamulla and the Newmarket on Coronet.
One of his last rides was on Frederick in
Carbine's Cup. A natural lightweight, he
was only seven stone when he weighed in
for the last time.
■jf. * * *
The Warwick Farm track was very fast
on Saturday—so fast that the winner of
a division of the Maiden Handicap got over
six furlongs in lmin. 13|sec. Many a New-
market has been won in slower time, and
Cabaret, who went out at 3 to 1, is no New-
market horse. Still, being only a three-
year-old, she has plenty of time to improve,
and she did her job in taking style, finish-
ing four lengths ahead of the second horse,
Chief Barter (5 to 1) ; Renommee, third, re-
turned his backers £6 for 10s. on the tote.
Cabaret is a bay filly by Spelthorne, sire of
Pretzel, out of Linita, who could go a bit in
her day, and was ridden by Lightfoot, the
successful pilot of Jacko in the Doncaster.
McShortodds had to offer 6 to 1 before
he could do any business on the Glenfield
Handicap. Then a commission for Cercello
sent the three-year-old to fours. It was not
very solid, owners and trainers apparently
being afraid to back their horses for a race
in which nothing stood out Wedsre Call
in wmen notning srooa our. weagt wu
(10 to 1) was hailed as the winner as the
field shot into the straight, but she died on
her run, and was not even placed (although,
inHo-inc hv his actions her iockev thought
she was) • Omagh (7 to 1) with the
advantage of the rails nosition got the better
advantage ot me raus position, got tne oetcer
of a rousing finish with Celtic (8 to 1),
Hampton Plane (10 to 1) being third.
Omagh (Moabite —Lady Zelteers) is in the
strong stable of Frank McGrath, but had
hitherto been a disappointment. He cut
out the “six” in lmin. 12fsec.
The Farm Novice Handicap attracted a
big field (15) and furnished another exciting
finish. Half a dozen horses seemed to have
chances as they thundered down the straight,
and the judge’s task was no sinecure. He
declared for Yosela (20 to 1), by a head
from Bill Wedgewood (8 to 1), with Toby’s
Choice the same distance away. Another
Spelthorne, Yosela is owned and trained by
J. Davis. Though the ringmen did well on
tliis race, they would take no risk about
Emily Rose (6 to 4 on) in the Nursery
Handicap. The daughter of Rampion and
Whitta never left the result in doubt.
’ ‘ ' ' ' ‘
Starlike, from the pony courses, went out
favorite for the February Handicap. He
did not disgrace himself, hut Dreamdale (0
to 1) shot away from the field at the four-
furlong post, and was untroubled in the run
home. Starlike was second, Winrose (10
to 1) third and Nord (6 to I)—nearly last
into the straight—a fast-finishing fourth.
Apparently he is developing into a stayer,
as his half-brother, Statesman, was, though
he is not in the same class. O’Sullivan did
well to persuade Dreamdale to give of Ins
best; hitherto he has been a refractory beast,
There was brisk betting on the Minto
Handicap, which wound up the programme,
Backers took such cramped prices about Bold
Boy (3 to 1), Cylanta, Alienor (each 4 to
1), La Justice and Golden Flash (each
9 to 2, and all five a bit shorter in places)
that McShortodds could have laid any of
the starters to advantage, especially as a
few pounds went on Black Douglas and
Intrepid. Bold Boy had the run of the
race behind the pacemaker, Princess Cister-
cian, and came away when Parsons moved
on him. Alienor and Cylanta tried hard to
overhaul him, hut the effort was too great.
Bold Boy is being • shrewdly “placed” by
Joe Cook.
. M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Schaaf, the U.S. heavyweight, died in hos-
pital of a clot of blood on the brain after
Camera had knocked him out in 13 rounds ;
and the Italian may have to face a man-
slaughter charge. But apparently poor
Schaaf contributed to his own undoing. He
had only just got over a bout of influenza,
and ’flu is apt to leave its mark on a man
for months.
* * * *
Few heavyweights live to a ripe old age.
Jim Corbett, dead in New York, lasted till
he was 67, but had had a bad heart for years,
and was just 'skin and bone at the finish.
One of the cleverest boxers who ever stepped
into a ring (the cleverest, he always said,
was “Griffo”), he took the championship
from John L. Sullivan in 1892 and held
it for five years; then he was knocked out
by Fitsimmons. Perhaps his greatest per-
formance was to fight a draw with Peter
Jackson, then in his prime. Corbett visited
Australia as a music-hall entertainer, and
impressed everyone who met him as a prince
of good fellows.
No one can say offhand how many times
Walter Brownmg and, Tom=Lunch {SJJ
wrestled at Leich ard , t -’ f •
brawl on Satu a Y ». . mi ®
as a nytbmg evev ' s ■ ag
p ea j; a ea^ Ari Arip t v, p combatants removed
touched when one ot the comba.tants removea
mo uthguard the better to bite the other.
ms mouuiguaiu l c Rrnwnimr 2n t the
Departing fr P > tl eoualiser
pst faH m the fourtl h i inti tlm equalise
didn’t arrive till the sixth. Ihe reteree
ordered two extra rounds, but one sufficed.
Browning was disqualified m the seventh for
. • bo th fists to Lunch’s face as he
hnflv
sa t 011 h ' ' y ‘
_
Ins and Uuts
Ponsford, Tobin and Love have been
dropped from the team to meet the English-
men j n the final Test match, beginning at
Sydney to-morrow. The chosen eleven are
Woodfull, Darling, O’Brien, Ironmonger
(Vic.), Bradman, McCabe, O’Reilly, Old-
dc]d (N.S.W.), Richardson, Wall and Lee
(g Aus.), with Bromley (Vic.) as twelfth
ma ‘ n Lee goes in instead of Nagel, who notx-
ded 'the selectors, on being picked, that he
bad a ba( j ar m. It is a time for expen-
ments, and Woodfull or Richardson, Iron-
monge ’ r or O’Reilly, and perhaps McCabe,
wbose f o r m since the first match has been
poor> should have been relegated to the
pavilion for once. It was such experiments
that brought men like Hill, Duff, Arm-
strong and Grimmett into the Australian
w j t h excellent results. What does Aus-
tralian cricket gain by playing both O’Reilly
and ironmonger? They can bowl well
enoug h, but their batting and fielding are
pa theti’c. Fleetwood-Smith, Nitschke and
chipperfield should have been tried; but
tbese selectors have no imagination.
* * * *
„ Wnrtip . wprp ; n .
Jack Hobbs and P. F Northern
eluded m the English team aga nst N
Newcastle,
as possible after their gruelling ex P^' ie^. e
at Brisbane. The Newcastle C.A. objecte ,
though Australian managers have PW
many an English ground, and Hobbs t
was fatuously argued that Hobbs wouldn t
“draw” —is still the most stylish batsman in
the business. The objections were finally
withdrawn, and Northern Districts batsmen
proceeded to show that there are some jolly
good men among them, if the_ association
is not exempt from the stupidity and un-
couthness shown in more important branches
of cricket administration this season
Against the bowling of Voce, Bowes, Mit-
chell, Tate and Brown, they kept the visi-
tors in the field all Saturday, the innings
being closed at 8 for 322. Beattie made 53,
Little • 40, Chipperfield a magnificent 152 —
in 205 minutes. Few better innings have
been played against this English team. Chip-
perfield used to play for Western Suburbs.
He can bowl a bit and field, as well as bat.
Hobbs (44) and Leyland (31) gave Eng-
land a good start, but 8 were down tor
171 when this report had to close,
Wright, a slow bowler, doing most of the
damage.
(Continued on next page.)
Australians introduced dirt-track motor-
cycling into England and found the English
apt pupils. So much so that at the Speed-
way Royal, Sydney, on Saturday night Jack
Ormiston, of Wembley, was hailed as worlds
champion by 20,000 people after three heats
and a final. Van Praag, the Australian,
contested the final with Ormiston, and
made a thrilling affair of it, but the Lon-
doner was a bit too good. Incidentally, the
English team to which Ormiston belongs
has made a distinct hit with Australian
crowds.


o
0
o
o
0
At Excursion Rates
jW-
Js
Mt
- $
a
To
Marlborough Sounds
(NEW ZEALAND)
by
R.M.S. MONOWAI
Leaves Sydney .... March 3
Arrives Wellington . March 6
Leaves Wellington . . March 6
VISITING
Durville Island
Queen Charlotte Sound
Pelorus Sound*
FISHING, SWIMMING, BOATING
SIGHT-SEEING, ETC., THENCE
RETURNING to WELLINGTON.
Leaves Wellington, March 10
Arrives Sydney . . Marcft 13
Full details from:
UNION S.S. CO.,
247 George Street, Svdney.
Tel.: 87671.
o 9 William Street, Melbourne.
Central 8392, y
and Union LiMEt
ŵ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying am!
Selling Inst Pree.
Established 49 years
Bankers: The Onion
“THE BARRIER MINER*
will have its 45th birthday on March 1!
h orty-five glorious years in the most
Book-alive town in Australia. What a
record. The town is better shopped
ever it was, and its newspaper,
Ihe Barrier Miner,” has come up to
the scratch Twice a day at least for the
past h) years. The only newspaper in
Broken Hill covering the whole of the
~ es t* Biggest sales West of
fcydney.
&
NATIONAL ADVERTISERS!
If Your Message is of Interest to
Women, Choose the Perth
The Journal with a Remarkable
Appeal to the Women of
Western Australia.
Ihe women s section of the “Sunday
1 nnes is unequalled in the West. Social
Gossip, Recipes. Illustrated Fashions
Beauty Hints, Marriages and Engage-
ments create a real live section absorb-
lngly interesting to Western women.
Study the advertising in this section and
you will appreciate the popularity of the
paper in its appeal to women.
Net Sales 39,000 Copies Weekly
State-wide Coverage in a Weekly
With the Circulation of
a Daily..
NOTES-TIPS-RESULTS
fHE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES-S?
YOU Can Increase
Your Height!
IT CAN BE DONE!
YOI can now add several inches
to your height! With this remark-
able scientific method, it is now
possible to increase your height, at the
same time improve your health and
appearance. Without the use of drugs
or unnatural methods this system will
add inches to you. You can be taller!
WHAT A FEW INCI.ES IK HEIGHT DOES TO TOO
6PEET
5 FEET
4 FEET
3 FEET
2 FEET
FOOT
WHICH ONE REPRESENTS YOU?
bend tins Coupon Now for absolute
proof and Free Literature on “How to
Increase My Height:’ Enclose 4d. in
stamps for postage. This obligates you
in no way whatsoever.
Name
Full Address
SYDNEY PHYSICAL INSTITUTE,
Desk 11, Lombard Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
22/2/’33.
Ins and Outs
Ihe Englishmen won the fourth Test
match at Brisbane, and the rubber. They
non, not because of their leg-theory bowling,
the subject of so much hysterical cabling
and writing, but because of their all-round
superiority. They had the better batsmen,
better bowlers and better fieldsmen, and
,]jv- werc admirably led. Their captain, in
addition to using his bowlers and fieldsmen
to the best advantage, was rarely wanting
"lien runs were needed or a catch came his
'\ay: above all, he inspired his men with
his own will-to-win. Perhaps Woodfull
would have done as well with the same
material, but it is doubtful. In his second
Knock at Adelaide and in both innings at
vuisbane he certainly set a fine example to
Ins team. But that team showed pronounced
weaknesses in all departments, and changes
much more radical than the present selectors
seem inclined to make will be necessary
netore the Englishmen’s visit is returned
next year as it will be for a certainty
unless the Board of Control goes into hys-
terics again and while in that condition in-
furiates the old gentlemen of the M.C.C.
I aynter, resting in hospital with a septic
throat and a high temperature, heard over
the wireless that things were going badly for
Ins side. The Australians had made ,340:
the Englishmen, after a good start, had lost
o tor 108. Bring me my togs,” he said;
and when the sixtli wicket (Allen’s) had
fallen at 216. the little Lancashire lad, his
face half-hidden by a Panama hat, strode
out. It proved the turning point of the game.
Ames (17) left at 225; Larwood departed
after a breezy 28 (8 for 264). and, with
the board showing 271 without further loss,
stumps were drawn. Paynter, who had made
hniil'c.f fi mmutes by sheer grit (it was the
hottest day of the season). walked off grog-
gily and went straight back to hospital. Ho
was on hand again next morning, still off
color but game and, helped by mistakes in
“eld, lie and Verity carried the score to
wL Sf 11 Pnyuter, who had held up his wicket
tor 238 minutes and had 83 on the board
46 having come from boundary strokes was
caught by Richardson off Ironmonger. ’ Hit-
ciieil tailexl to score, and the innings closed
with England 16 ahead—a heroic recovery.
bowling was good, that of O’Reilly (4
f?, r I ,°\ and Ironmonger (3 for 69) especi-
ally; but, apart from Bromley, Darling and
Richardson, the fielding was far below inter-
national standard.
. P* ticket did not suit Wall (1 for 66),
but the English fast bowlers were effective
In r h<^d by ex <*Hent fielding and bv
he inferiority complex which some of the
„ have developed. Richardson
does not suffer from it, and it was a blow
to the side when he was cleverly caught
the q JT A off , >' 1 for 46, of which
tlie bouth Australian had knocked up 32.
Bradman did well until he started moving
to leg m order to hit Larwood on the off side
from tins strange position he cut Larwood
94 ** Pop*; 2 for 79, Bradmaii
-f Without having scored, Ponsford leg-
glanced Allen and was brilliantly taken by
Larwood left-handed; 8 for 81. Another 10
npis and Woodfull (19) was out. CaJght
by Hammond off Mitchell. McCabe and
Hailing revived the drooping spirits of the
crowd a bit; but on Wednesday 2'eCabe
iad added only 8 to his overnight score of
14 when he was clean-bowled by Verity 5
his w-ifk f Bromley (7) threw away
f by flicking at one of Allen’s on
the off side Darling (39) shaped like a real
LovT CD tl Th ° 7if S f S°M Shly run out by
rhX ' J ‘ Ti he others failed, as usual, and
all out for 175, sundries (23)
contributmg more to the total than six
able-bodied men with bats. The bowliim
figures tell their own tale: Allen. 3 for 44*
Lai wood, o for 49; Verity, 2 for 30 • Mit-
thp Vi/v 1L Y a - U got Su tcliffe for 2,
the Yoikshireman being smartly caught bv
Darling at point; and hope returned to the
Australian breast. But Jardine and Lev-
land, were equal to the occasion, though Jar-
D ll inni” r ir caried P atience vexed the crowd
bim an hour to make 10, and he
~l dl! * score again for 63 minutes. But he
aJfwL rt WlC ?’ Whil ° Leyland got ™ns:
and when the skipper went, l.b.w. to Iron-
monger, for 24. only 82 were needed, and
thei-e were eight wickets in hand. Leyland
(66) and Hammond (8) played out time
Both were dismissed on Thursday, Ilam-
lu-°l 14 and Leyland for an iiwaluaWe
86. which occupied 232 minutes; but Ames
and I aynter (each 14 n. 0.) soon knocked off
comnletin^the r V ns ’. Pay nter appropriately
completing the business with a six Iroii-
“° f n f ar I 2 f? r . 47) and O’Reilly (1 for 65)
got the remaining wickets; Wall (4 for 17)
thTla!tX nCh The a fil^ ,G ’ C ° uld bowl on
to say t the y ieaTt dlng Was again P atehy -
Jardine was modest in his triumnhant
•6°n U fV I have been thrice lucky,” he 1 said
v lei tofead^’^tPp l3B been my P roa d p ri :
I «* , leacl - and he expressed his thanks
to Australians of goodwill” who had sent
him “a regular host of letters”
wus facing the storm of objurgation silently.
The star of the fourth Test match "against
Chapman’s team was Arrhip Toni 8
pleasant-faced Scotti K-born boy 5 19
inTuSalfa’slrt 0 164 (out S6of
=yKKSSSm
man has made a cenf-m-Tr .younger
against England, or fol England" 1
Australia. Four years n § gainst
but he lies in hosnital l. 'i ° ld companions :
s
P.*J p , ei in which he sought, with no
hv le T S to allay the ill-feeling excited
idrniwS °?r S bowling, which he warmly
tlm t™i„ Hl f. b « d y was borne to Sydney in
tne train which brought members of the
captains hllT Queensland, and both
memory paid aftectlllg tributes to his
Car and Cycle
Q t .V : Q ueenslan d motorists are think-
London t'n tfvff e a vcrsiol i °f the annual
W 1 en the lton rUn for ancient cars.
When the matter was put to the Queensland
iv.A.C, the latter doubted whether enough
wnrli 6 ve , t . e , rai “ remained to make the show
nf°nln WUIe ’ but the odds a re that plenty
T 0 d car ‘? vans . ai 'e to be found. Apart from
the amusing .side of it such an event 5
p S . llustrat ing to modern drivers the
quaint designs and devices of an earlier day.
traliaifhnllt ial ” : S , years ago an Aus-
tranan-built car called the Marks was nr,,.
duced m Sydney, but the designed failed
for beW^ntfr 1 f Upport - \ was remarkable
El,!, y sprung by its laminated
nickoiy body, and had no conventional
absorbin 1 rnnf lg f- V ran well on its trials.
« bs () ibin„ mad shocks satisfactorily. The
eai is to be re-mtroduced, engined with a
motor, built at Cockatoo Dock which has
feci" inrn hoi ' lz °ntally opposed to ensure per-
ct torque and centralise weight. It and
other parts are fitted to the bodv with
brackets? y Wlth
“Kick Starter”: Australian followers of
motor-cycle racing are to have a speciSl
the a islf f °m a I'unning description of
the Isle of Man Tourist Trophy races is to
be broadcast throughout the Empire by the
ooin'cvtn i , v .■ “ a . n the mike is
not Sfnf i d ° rr 18 °b» ervi ng and sprniking is
ow.flll tC< ' He , will Probably have to use a
- .ymg aeroplane, for the 37-mile circuit.
* t llids , with its numerous
turns and twists, and crammed with cycles
running at an average of 79 rn.p.li. oveTth?
full course of 2(14 miles, will certainlv h.
too unhealthy for anyone attempting to
follow the race on the ground.
The Nineteenth Hole
f-nnii;!??/ ?i S there any game that runs in
tamihes to the same extent as golf’ Con-
sider the Wethereds, of England: H.N. the
head of rhe family, who was one of the best
*? ls generation; Roger, his .son, one of
To?w S fi amatears England has produced, and
Joyce, the greatest woman-player of all time,
you see the phenomenon repeated every-
where In N.S.W. the L.G U. lias just
elected its executive committee. One of
the vice-presidents is Mrs. Halse-Rogers
i^ hO Mri Ui r ba i? d, A th T- Jlldge ’ is as kcen «s' she
is. Mis. A. E. Andrews, a committee-woman
is a low-marker at Royal Sydney, and so is
her husband; Mrs. Archie Rankin, another
committee-woman, is a daughter of the late
Vat T a one-time amateur champion
of N - S. Wales, sister of Telford Simpson
and wife of a prominent performer. And
then there are the Bettingtons. He lias
mopped up all the big Australian titles. She
is in the front rank among the women
*** * '
“Iconoclast” : A recent invention— Ameri-
can, of course—enables golf to be played
indoors with outdoor clubs. The ball is
driven against a canvas screen. Behind this
is a gadget which registers on a chart the-
distance the pill would have gone on an
outdoor course, while also showing the posi-
tion of the ball when it has come to
Ihe player, having noted the position, takes
the proper club for the next shot and again
plays it against the screen, making the shot
try out doors - After he holes
out, the screen is turned on rollers and a
new chart appears for the next one. There
are some pitfalls. Golfers, mostly being
what King David said all men are. may
work the oracle in the absence of witnesses
by swatting the canvas with a sleeper-
getter s maul and then produce the chart
evidence of a record drive. Other ingenious
methods of beating the machine will suggest
themselves. sstea
o-nl/Vmh :Tt isn m °{ ten that two important
ftOlf clubs arc able to arrange a mutually-
satisfactory amalgamation, but Pymble and
Hunter’s Hill did it last year. The Hunter’s
Hill course got too valuable as a real-estate
proposition, and Pymble was the obvious
place for the members to turn to, geographi-
cally speaking; it i,s also about the most
picturesque and sporting course round Syd-
ney. Pymble should be safe for a number
of years, though the houses are creeping
round it at a great pace; it is a mile or
so from the railway. Half a dozen other
courses are already as anomalous as Rand-
wick racecourse, and doomed to seek fresh
fields as soon as the slump ends. Royal
Sydney has only been saved up to the pre-
sent by its colossal membership list (over
2000) and resulting wealth. If it were a
golf club proper it would be the biggest on
earth, but of course it isn’t; it is a com-
bined social club, residential hotel, restaurant
and dance-hall. More games are hit off at Moore
Park,, month in, month out, than at any
club in Australia, but it survives only be-
cause it is a municipal concern. There
would be some excuse for this unoccupied
area if it were a park, but those who use
it even as a right-of-way do so at the risk
of life and limb.
Racquet and Bawl
"Tenakoe” : Unburdening himself to Maori-
and interviewers on the subject of Austra-
lian tennis, Allison was complimentary to
Crawford, though regretting that his service
is still the weakest part of his play. McGrath
the American also speaks highly of. while
considering that the youngster has a lot to
learn. The two-hand backhand is described
as the best in the world, none of the boy's
other shots coming up to this “devastating-
stroke.” Hopman is still in the top class,
while Australian doubles form is as good as
ever.
* * *
“Cash Amateur”: Mild excitement has
fluttered lawn-tennis circles at the news that
Suzanne Lenglen proposes to tour Australia
and South America with one Martin Plaa
a Basque professional, as a partner. The
temperamental Suzanne would be a big draw
in this country. The trouble would be to
get matches for her, since we have practi-
cally no class professionals, barring Ander-
s'? 11 - probably, however, with the- prospect
ot good gates to inspire them, the Australian
tennis heads would give authority for lead-
ing amateurs to take part with the visitors
in exhibition games.
Miscellaneous
Olympic cyclist Duncan Gray lost his form
when he returned to Australia and has been
beaten time and again this season. Not so
Clare Dennis, who also came back from Los
Angeles with a crown of wild olive or some
modern equivalent—she is swimming better
than ever. In the 100 metres breaststroke ai:
Adelaide she set up a world’s record; her
time, lmm. 24 3-ssec., clipped 1 2-ssec off
the previous best, put up by Elsie Jacobsen,
t Denmaik. And, as she is still only a
proving yeaFS ’ She will P FO *>ably g„ on im-
: J* ev - Henry Foster, who died in
England a few days ago,- sired one of the
most famous families of athletes on record
He was a master at Malvern and a first-class
J 6" and soccer-player. As each son
came along lie coached him in the school’s
chief games and got the lad his colors, first at
school and afterwards at Oxford “H K ”
captained Worcestershire (“Fostershire”) in
h-!c n ni i ne r ieS « n ß ' B ' (“Tip”) was the star
bat and shp fieldsman of the powerful Oxford
AI which Mordaunt captained at the bo-
fonr ing e 01.- thc c ? ntury ’ and made the record
scoie of 28, against Australia at the Sydney
C- G. in 1903. Poor Tip,” though a
physical specimen to look at, died § of T R
a few years afterwards. Basil, the best-
ooking member of a handsome family, was
Enghsh amateur to capitalise his
Oxford blue by taking a job in the sports
department of a London shop. He left the
stage for Self ridge’s in Oxford-street Geof-
frey, the youngest, in addition to being a
, S crick eter. was an international
soccer-player. His elders, notablv R E
were very close to international class at
iX-’-cl the Foster girls were also cliam-
£ ! dt /? U th, l which women plaved
towards the end of Victoria’s reign.


<
/
A
To save delay in writing to
London, J.llott (Australia) Ltd.,
Turner House, Jamieson Street,
Sydney will send you on request
the Langham Tariff and Bro-
chure and a copy of the 1933
London Calendar.
LONDON? -then The Langham!
Did you stay at the Langham last year
the year before ? If so, you’ll remem-
ber how you enjoyed its simple dignity
and solid comfort. You’ll recall how
easy it was to get to the City in the
morning; how simple afterwards to
reach the theatres and the shops.
The Langham still looks after its
guests in the good old English un-
obtrusive but intensely personal way.
WRITE OR CABLE NOW for your rooms, rather than radio at tlw last moment, to
Captain Hills, Langham Hotel, Portland Place, London, W.l. Cable address: Lang am,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
Tweed dresses that look perfectly straight
on the hanger, but snuggle cosily into the
contour, are going to make us happy this
winter. The neckline of these dresses is im-
portant, and is finished off with chokers of
velvet or astrakhan, capes or cape collars.
Astrakhan is very smart for the finishing
note of sleeve or collar: And, before one
forgets, bolster collars are in again, both on
overcoats and on the velvet evening ones.
These last can be worn right down to the
toes, hip-length or just below the knees. The
really long ones follow the figure, have bal-
loon or leg-of-mutton sleeves and very often
a touch of ermine at the neck. A short
coat in velvet that gleams like rum has
its dolman-like sleeves all gathered and
rucked, and it is bordered by a deep band
of pinked velvet. The whole of this was
done by hand, and the price reads like it.
Velvet suits for afternoon wear when the
occasion is of a ceremonial nature are being
eyed by every woman. One shown to this
writer was of grey and black velvet. The
skirt was of sensible walking length and was
slightly flared, but yet looked straight; the
coat was moulded to the figure so that it
had a basque effect. The high neck was
finished off with a snug collar of black coney,
and the coat was bordered with the same,
Flamisol, crinkled cr§pe in matelasse design,
and velvet are the most frequently occurring
fabrics for evening wear. This crinkled crepe
is delightful, and lends itself to the Empire
style so much in vogue, the sweeping folds of
the skirts, the backless bodice and the
shoulder-cape more gracefully than even the
angel-skin, our first love of last year. Angel-
still a front-ranker, and lace is heavily
backed for a place.
Sequins and white bugles glitter and
shimmer on the übiquitous shoulder-capes.
Capes and tiny coats made entirely of
sequins accompany the most expensive frocks.
One cape of white bugles is woven into a
lattice design, through which the shoulders
and back of the wearer will glow, the
seller declared, “like alabaster” —or “like
copper,” whispered the surf girl near by.
White is the leading color-note. Flowers
are white, and are made of erminette and
silver. Lastly, here’s a description of a
dinner frock that goes off to a station home.
It is of black velvet, softer than satin. It
is of Empire build, and above the high
waistline it flowers into velvet of the softest
cosmos pink; its sleeves are shirred and are
balloon in shape. A little black velvet cape
accompanies it.
No doubt Earl Beauchamp (who may
stay with us until May) smiled with satis-
faction when he found that his precedence
on the surf-beaches was not to be questioned.
But it was a near shave. No less a person
than the Duke of Bronte, to whom the title
has come down from Nelson, was on the
Otranto, Australia-bound; but he left the
boat at Ceylon. In England the nobleman
is known as Sir Alexander Nelson Hood,
and he was for years private secretary to
Queen Mary. His duchy is in Sicily, where
his estate is noted for size, beautiful scenery
and orange groves. He’s uncle to the Mar-
quess of Hertford, who travelled in the same
steamer and is now staying with Oswald
Cheeke in his flat at the Astor. He is also
linked up with Australia through kinsman
Victor Hood, secretary to a succession of
Governors in N.S.W. and other States.
The Otranto brought a sizeable bit of the
peerage to Port Jackson. Of these the Earl
and Countess of Pembroke and Montgomery
seem the most active in affairs. On Thurs-
day, the day of their arrival, the Earl spoke
at the Millions Club, and on Friday his
countess, slim and very young-looking, was
the guest of the Forum Club.
The Countess is a Wiltshire county
councillor, and president of the Women’s
Conservative Association for Wessex. She
is also Mayoress of Wilton, a pillar (or
should it be wigwam pole?) of the Wilt-
shire Girl Guides, and chairwoman of the
local Nursing Association and the Infant
Welfare Association. A.I.F. men were
nursed at Wilton House, the Salisbury home
of the Earl and Countess, which they turned
into a hospital in war-time. Old friends, the
Governor of Queensland and Lady Wilson,
claimed the Earl and Countess.
Another Otranto arrival, the Dowager
Lady Roberts, has a special link with Aus-
tralia; her second son, Lieutenant-Com-
mander Gilbert H. Roberts, was two years
with us as gunnery expert during the build-
ing of H.M.A.S. Albatross. The railings of
the incoming liner bristled with so many
knights, baronets and lords that there’s not
time to mention all of them.
The Victoria Leaguers are getting ready
the white kid glove of ceremony to greet
their deputy-president, Miss Macarthur-
Onslow, who got back to Sydney last week
by the Otranto after a year or so in England
and Europe. The welcome-home is timed for
the 24tli at the Australia, and the wives of
the Governors and the Chief Justice will be
present. With her aunt, Mrs. R. G. Stanham,
the elder daughter of Major-General and Mrs.
Macarthur-Onslow, of Camden-Park, travelled
to Australia for a visit home. She brings
small son Quinton with her. At the time of
the wedding, Captain Stanham was A.D.C.
to Sir Walter Davidson.
Beryl Daking-Smith (she’s the daughter of
the A. E. Daking Smiths, of Bowral) wore one
of those diverting little eye-veils when she
was married one afternoon last week to Wil-
liam Arthur Dalzell Sale, of Ilfracombe,
Central Queensland. The eye-veil was pink
and was attached to a close-fitting turban of
white velvet. The dress was of pink chiffon,
very pale, toe-length, and, in spite of its
pleated godets, very tailored-looking. Toasts
were drunk at No. 11 Onslow-avenue, which
burgeoned with all the blooms in season, from
tiger-lilies to frangipanni. Mrs. Daking-
Smith did the honors in burgundy velvets.
Burdekin House in Macquarie-street, an-
other landmark of Old Sydney, is about to
join the shades of yesterday. The trustees
of St. Stephen’s Church have their eye on
it for the site of the new St. Stephen’s
that must arise when the hoary old kirk
in Phillip-street will be demolished to give
way t 0 the Martin-place extension. Burde-
kin House was built in 1841 by Thomas
Burdekin, whose son Sydney was one time
Mayor of the city. The Burdekins of to-day
do not come into the public life of Aus-
tralia, but the Burdekins of 1841 and the
’nineties were very much a part of the civic
life. The parties of Burdekin House are
still remembered by the older generations,
and the beauty of Mrs. Sydney Burdekin,
society historians agree, was vital enough
to cast a glow of romance over every ball
and rout she graced. Of late years the
glory of the old home, with its famed Geor-
gian facade, has faded. It has, in fact, for
several years been a residential, whose ren-
tals went to Prince Alfred’s by the gener-
osity of T. E. Rofe. The Royal His-
torical Society and the Institute of Archi-
tects made an effort to have it saved for
posterity, but the Government could not
provide the funds to turn it into the sug-
gested museum. Mrs. Alec Hay and Miss
Burdekin, the daughters of Sydney Burde-
kin, spend most of their time abroad. A
son, Beau Burdekin, practises law in Sydney.
When the Australian drama finds its feet
it will have to pass a vote of thanks to
the Australian
Theatre
Society. This
is a little
group of
writers, and
people inter-
ested in writ-
i n g, who
during the
year produce
plays by be-
ginning play-
wrights. That
some of the
plays are un-
polished, and
that some of
the scenes
don’t dovetail,
nobody can
deny ; but this
Letter can say
that every one
she has seen is stimulating to thought. The
current production is Lionel Shave s Uh.
That’s Different,” which has the virtue of the
unexpected ending—an ending that makes
you want to follow the lives of the characters
after the final curtain has fallen. Noela
Marienthal, the girl in this picture, is one of
the Australian Theatre’s budding actresses.
Jenner, the big private hospital in Macleay-
street, has quite an interest in a wedding
which will happen this afternoon at St.
Stephen’s in Phillip-street. The bride will
be Miss A. W. Scanlan, former matron ot
Jenner, and the ’groom will be Dr. Cuthbert
Hall, Government medical officer at Parra-
matta, who has practised' in that town for
about 30 years. Mrs. K. F. McMaster, a
sister of the bride was matron of Molong,
and then of Tusculum, two well-known Dar-
linghurst private hospitals. Previous to that
Mrs. McMaster, a trainee of Prince Alfred’s,
spent four years in France as a war nurse.
Mrs. Harold Weigall is preparing a car-
nival night at the Auditorium at Bondi.
Spectacular turns of every description will
appear on a programme so varied that it
includes surf girls, Minnie Hooper’s ballets
and the Police Band. Funds for the anti-
t.b. movement.
The thrilling moment of the Forum Club’s
lunch to the Countess of Pembroke and Mont-
gomery came when a girl suddenly hissed
“She’s got no stockings on!” Pop-eyed, a
table full of lunchers peered below the top
table at the legs that were privileged to stalk
through Debrett and the Peerage. Were
they or were they not naked? A higher light
in the drawing-room, where the tall
Countess was supported by Lady Storey and
Margaret Chalmers, revealed that the limbs
of nobility were clothed in stockings of the
finest mesh. Attired in black and white
chiffons, a small black hat, smartly turned
off the face, and black patent shoes, she
carried a presentation posy of red roses ; and
as she is very tall, with one of those cup-of-
black-eoffee-and-lettuce-leaf-a-day figures, it
seemed on the face of it ridiculous that she
should be a grandmother. The Storey lady
wore black chiffons and Chantilly, and Mar-
garet Chalmers glowed in burgundy frocking.
Just behind the little group, framed by the
high window, rose the bronze spire of St.
James’s, richly green with the years. The
lunch was quite the social fixture of the
week, and the special ice with which it ended
would alone have made it notable.
Joan Higgins, one of Sydney’s best-liked
girls, drew a great crowd to St. Mark’s
at Darling Point when she married her Dr.
Kay Ivaines, of Adelaide. The bride’s pretty
coloring bloomed above vellum-tinted satin.
The frock was cut on princess lines, had tiny
puff sleeves and was misted over by a lace
veil mellow with years and the memories of
a hundred previous brides. Sisters Doreen
and Betty followed Joan, a feature of their
soft cream satin frocks being the little capes
lined with gold. Kickerbell, the Rose Bay
home of the bride’s parents, housed the party
and here Mr. and Mrs. Percy H'iggins did
their daughter proud, the affair being every-
thing a wedding party should be.
Ray Stevens, the subject of this Bulle-
tin photograph, is, with Miss M. M. Simp-
son, responsible for the experiments in
infant edu-
cation carried
on at the
Black friars
Demonstration
School. Miss
Simpson has
now retired
from the Edu-
cation Depart-
ment, but
Miss Stevens
carries on en-
t h usiastically
the campaign
for the healthy
mind in the
healthy body.
Classes in the
open air are a
feature at
Blackfri'ars, so
is the daily
rest on the
v i t a-g lass
verandah during winter days for the babies
and the underweights. Every day the young-
sters are served with a health lunch pro-
vided by a committee of thirty members from
the city’s women’s clubs ; they prepare and
serve it. Ray Stevens was asked to address
tne World Conference of Education Associa-
tions at Denver, U.S.A. As she was unable
to attend she sent a paper; now she has
received an invitation to attend the world
conference to be held this year in Europe.
But organising an Australian Child Health
Conference at Easter in Sydney is the task
which at the moment is absorbing every
moment this lover of children can spare
from her daily round.
Cactus dahlias and Chablis made a golden
glow along the tables when the Institute of
Journalists entertained at lunch “S. M.
Herald’s” new general manager, A. H. Stuart.
The speeches resolved themselves into a loud
paean to the old-established morning daily.
Charlie Bean proposed the toast and almost
lost himself in a labyrinth of “Herald”
memories. Mr. Stuart made a good speech
in a resonant voice, but it needed a sub-
editor’s hand. Condensed, that good speech
would have been excellent. Another who
hung his address around with verbiage was
F. W. Doidge, that alert person who is rush-
ing about the world with a loud voice sound-
ing the praises of newspaper-magnate
Beaverbrook.
Even if Lud Mayor Hagon had worn all
his gauds of office • he’d have been a drab
figure when opening the exhibition of caged
birds, sponsored by the Royal Zoological
Society. Excited twitterings and bird notes
sprayed the air of the Blaxland Galleries
like jewels, and wings blue and red, green
and yellow, fluttered from perch to floor ot
gilded cages. Tiny birds, crimson, gold, tur-
quoise and coral, balanced delicately in minia-
ture aviaries, rather like exotic blooms, on
the skeleton boughs. H’ow the women
crowded into the show, which lasted for two
days! Two long hot days they must have
been to the prisoned finches and the blue Java
sparrows. Even the sociable parrots looked
a bit morose by the second afternoon. One
finch, refusing to understand the glory ot
publicity, died. There were about 600 birds
on view, and though sweet the note of the
captive bird, at least one visitor couldn’t
help thinking how much sweeter the note
might ring in freedom.
The coming wedding in Hobart of charm-
ing Ruth Minton Taylor, daughter of lawyer
Minton Taylor and the late Mrs. Minton
Taylor, of Hunter’s Hill, makes a happy
flutter of festive feathers. The bride-to-be
(Dad gives her away and is in Tassie for
the set purpose) is a grand-daughter of
that popular old lady Mrs. Henry Dobson,
who wanted to see the celebration in her
home-town. The bridegroom is Rev. W.
Wynn Jones, M.A., doing missionary work
in Africa. After the honeymoon their village
homestead will be in Tanganyika.
Whereas the sewing of a fine seam must
be done at home or indoors, the driving of
a car must be done on the highways and by-
ways and in the public gaze. No doubt this is
what led Lady Game to remark the other
day, at the annual meeting of the Sydney
Hospital Auxiliary, that if a census were
taken in Sydney of the girls who could sew
a shirt and the girls who could drive a car,
she was afraid that the car-drivers would
head the list. This Letter, her curiosity
aroused, cast a mental eye around its own
acquaintances and .found among them that
the girls who can make anything from a
shirt’ to an evening frock are far more
numerous than those who can drive a car or
a golf ball. A few inquiries from the Edu-
cation Department were illuminating on the
sewing propensities of the average flapper.
About 15,000 girls in this State’s schools
are taught sewing every year. Of this num-
ber two-thirds may be reckoned to be in the
metropolitan area. Every year approxi-
mately 5000 girls in the State take dressmak-
ing with the domestic science course, and
again about two-thirds of the total number
are in the metropolitan area. Now, are there
3000 girls qualifying every year to get their
hands on the driving-wheel of father’s car?
The J. M. C. Forsayths, of Vaucluse Hall,
had a wedding in the family the other night,
and, as became such old-established residents,
they kept it to their own water-suburb.
Daughter Phyllis married Ronald Leishman,
of Deniliquin, within the prettily-situated
Church of St. Michael’s, and later there was
a reception in the Forsayth home. Both
bride and ’maids were in vellum-tonea
raiment, the principal trailing satin and rose
point, the attendants fluttering georgettes
and having their heads wreathed with
natural flowers.
This Letter thinks the end of Soviet
Russia is in sight. Millinery will be
the cause of the fall, even as it was of
Adam. The new winter hats are in, and
two of the smartest of fur-felt and feather
this writer tried on were stamped “Czecho-
slovakia.” Now if the Czech and Slovak
women are wearing hats like that, the
women of Russia will be cross if their men-
folk don’t provide them with similar. Hats
call for shoes and dresses, handbags and
gloves to go with them; and these things
are not bought with soup tickets, Mr.
Stalin!
Bananaland bits: —
There was torrid weather nearly all through the
Test match, but the Governor was one of many who
saw every ball bowled. In tiny hats like dolls
tea-cosies, many of Brisbane’s fairest braved the
sun, returning home in the popular bronze tint.
Two enthusiasts came to blows over the leg-theory
and a woman who tried to intervene fainted on top
of the combatants, but, on the whole, it was a
good-humored crowd that surged through the gates.
At Holy Trinity, Valley, Tom Tuck and Pearl
Birdsall were made one. The bride was in ivory
satin, Chantilly lace and tulle veil. “Jackie Mann
’maided in pale green organdie, and two small girls,
Joan and Moira Casey, were similarly frocked. The
party was at Rowe’s banqueting hall.
Mary Kessell, the clever and handsome daughter
of the J. H. Kessells, is to marry Roy, son of
poetess Emily Buleock and nephew of Vancei Palmer.
Mary has long been a prominent member of Nell
Douglas Graham’s Art Theatre.
Members of the United Service Club made a
guard of honor for Flying-officer Gordon Grant,
R.A.A.F., when he was married to Lou Irwin in
St. John’s Cathedral. The bride, who was given
away by her brother, was in white satin and
Brussels net veil. Evelyn Wood ’maided in shell-
pink organdie. The feasting was at Rowe’s.
S. K. Markham, secretary of the Museums Associa-
tion of London, is shocked (and not without some
reason) at Queensland’s Art Gallery and libraries.
He considers that Ipswich has the worst public library
of any town of 25,000 inhabitants in the British
Empire. But what can ai librarian do on, a 2s. 6d.
quarterly subscription?
Mrs. Julius, an aunt of knight George Julius, still
plays a game of bowls at 96, A member of the
Ithaca Bowling Club, she prefers hot weather
when she is No. 2 in rink games and she won a
consistency match the other day. Her son-in-law,
F. B. C. Ford, a former Surveyor-General, was a
foundation member of the Ithacas.
“Ginger Meggs” Bancks was given a dinner at
Lennon’s, when English cricketers Brown and Duck-
worth were among those present.
Enid Allan Mathews, daughter of the late James
Mathews, announces her engagement to Thomas M.
Raeburn, Manly.


in \ F ™ W ,u S ’ of Canyon’s Hoteb Spencer
SUcet, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only Victorias greatest refined hotel values
thus: Single Rooms
from 4/6 day;
Double from 7/6;
and meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in Tearooms
or Cafe, and Room
with breakfast
from 6/6 Single or
11/6 Double — all
less 10 p.c. if stay-
ing one week or
more; and complete
Board from 10/6
day or 65/- week
(both net) ; but,
L
HI
in addition, if you motor, Win Fowles
garages your car free of charge in the hotel
garage, next door, during your entire stay
b , u <* value service and convenience is not
obtainable at any other hotel in Mel-
bourne city. Please write for tariff card
which gives all information, or state tout
requirements and we will gladly qSte
Special rates for clubs, conferences, families'
etc. The Manager, Carlyon’s Hotel, Mel-
bourne. is sufficient address for your letter.
YOUR CAREER
Unless you have been specially fortune-favored, the success of vour
career, so vital to your whole life, is going to depend primarily .upon
your own efforts. There may be factors over which you can have no
control, therefore >t is the more necessary that you seriously grapple
w,th those you can yourself govern. Naturally, money must enter into
your plans tor to-morrow, but action must be taken to-dav if you are
to succeed. 3 3
Don't wait upon so-called “luck.” The Savings Account costs nothing,
sdf-he"p UP ° n y ° Ur SaV ' nSS ’ and Pr ° VideS the bcst P° ssiblc aid W
®>ramonwcaltl) Savmas JJank of Hustrala
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
Legal Notices.
TO THOMAS DOUGALL BROTHER OE WILLIAM
DOUGALL WHO DIED - INTESTATE at
MASTERTON IN NEW ZEALAND ON THE 4th
AUGUST 1932: TO HIS CHILDREN AND TO At {
HIM OR S THE A M MING BY THROUOH 0R UNDER
. R^: RS UANT to an Order of the Supreme Court
of New Zealand! you are hereby called upon to
send to me on or before the Ist day of May 1933
claims to the estate of the abovenamed deceased
railing- which the said estate will be distributed
disregarding your claims. DATED at Wellington
this 13th day of February 1933
CHAS\ E. COLE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN AND RELATING
TO SUSPENSION INSULATORS OF THE
CAP AND BOLT TYPE.
T H S proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 26,242/30 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
B HOURS’ RESTFUL
SLEEP TO-NIGHT!
Not sleeping too well? (let a package of Cream
of Yeast and take two or three of these remark-
able health-giving tablets. The results will
surprise and delight you. To-night you will
have eight hours’ perfect sleep, and to-morrow
you will feel a new being. Cream of Yeast is a
recognised tonic medicine, a quick, harmless,
reliable purifier, nerve-restorer, “pep”-giver and
‘‘pick-me-up.” Cream of Yeast combines tin?
benefits of concentrated yeast with other recog-
nised medicinal agents in such a way as to
increase the practical health-giving value of the
preparation and produce benefits not obtainable
in other ways. Cream of Yeast is a great remedv
for sleeplessness, digestive upset, skin troubles,
attacks of “nerves” and for “run-down” feeling
generally. You can get a flask of genuine Cream
of Yeast tablets from any chemist for 1/11.
Here is Better Health at trifling cost.—-A dvt.
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
WALTZES FROM VIENNA.
KING’S THEATRE:
ATHENE SEYLER and NICHOLAS HANNEN in
CYNARA.
Melbourne
Chatter
Saturday was warm, and dressing at the
V.A.T.C. meeting was summery, with here
and there a new autumn mode] in millinery.
A forecast of the coming season’s modes,
which modistes tell us will feature greys
and browns, was given by a young miss
whose skirt was grey and bodice brown. A
gob's cap topped the quaint-looking outfit.
There was a fair-sized crowd, with a good
sprinkling of country folk and a few inter-
state visitors. The committee-ladies’ box
was well filled. V.A.T.C. chairman Ben
Chalrey’s wife was there, in georgette and
laces of pale fawn tint, topped by a brown
straw hat. Mrs. Rogers Thomson made her
hrst appearance at races for some time. Mrs.
Merson Cooper, whose ensemble combined
plain navy and blue crSpo de Chine patterned
in green, was accompanied by her daughter,
Mrs. Xavier de Bavay, from the Apple Isle.
Mrs. de Bavay brightened a black-and-white
frock and millinery by carrying a large
scarlet pochette. Mrs. Ronald Irving, of
Sydney, came with her sister, Mrs.
Harold Anderson, from Geelong, whose attire
mingled shades of brown. Chiffon, figured
in black and white, and a large black hat
were worn by Mrs. Richard Linton, who
was with the new Agent-General, her sister,
Mrs. Murray Heffernan, of Sydney, and son
Dick. Mrs. W. Hogan, of Carnella, Den di-
quin, wearing brown georgette and matching
hat. was with Mrs. Forbes Mackenzie, whose
gown and swathed toque were of the tint
of purple violas. Mrs. Archibald Currie,
Mrs. Gordon Gutteridgo. Mrs. R G Casey
senior, the Luxton lady. Mr. and Mrs. E.
giiernan and the Claude Grices were also
onlookers. Among younger patrons were
Mrs. Geoffrey Grimwade, whose white linen
frock was of. pinafore mode with sleeves of
blue and white striped cambric, topped by
a white hat; Valerie Purves, summery in
pale-blue muslin traced in white, and a
white hat wreathed with flowers; Ena
Twomey, from the Western Distinct, whose
currant-red straw hat matched the stripes
on her light-brown silk dress, and Bettv
I ellows, who wore a primrose-liued frock
and a straw hat circled with primroses.
Mr. and Mrs. A. G. Hunter received lots of
sympathy over the breakdown of their horse
Liberal. The animal, a family pet, will
never race again.
The medical and nursing staff of St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital had a dance at old Admiralty
House. Marjorie Hayden, whose gown
mingled tones of gold and brown in organdie
and velvet, had the aid -of Dr. D. P. Niall with
secretarial duties, and Marion Morton, who
mingled black and mushroom-pink lace in
her attire, looked after the finances with
Dr. C'. C. Beaumont.
The associates of Woodlands Golf Club
said good-bye to Mrs. T. Lewis, who is
leaving with her husband to settle in Perth.
A crystal powder-box was presented to her
in acknowledgment of her interest in the
club.
The Power House Drapiatic iClub, which
consists of lads who came together first at
Lord Somers’s camp, gave “The Silent Wit-
ness a three nights’ season at the Bijou. Only
two women had roles in the play, which was
under the direction of Terence Crisp. Cath-
arine Boyce, who played the wife of the
.suspected murderer, wore a fashionable even-
ing gown of taffeta figured in two tones of
green; and later cheered up a court scene
and her black gown with a jumper appliquecl
in rose and embroidered in gold. Margaret
Read was a wicked vamp whose sitting-room
uas a shriek in Reckitt’s blue with curtains
of orange, and whose silk pyjamas were pale
blue with lots of ecrue lace. In the audience
were Lord Somers, Dr. C. G. McAdam, G. R
Nicholas and Betty, Lud Mayor Smith, Mrs.
J • Emmerton, Mary Emmerton, Cynthia
Brookes, Vera de Bavay, Mrs. F. Thiel, Mrs
Lennox Spiers, the Aubrey Gibsons and
Mis. crank Andrew. Bazaar enterprises
were looked after by Miss L. Bundle, Mrs.
A. E Brown, Mrs. R. W. E. Wilmot, Mrs.
H. Price, Mrs. G. Luff, Mrs. O. B. McCut-
cheon and Mrs. J. P. Rhoden, all of whom
wore rosettes of Lord Somers’s colors—
green, white and black.
Ciose on a hundred young men and women
enteied for the J. C. Williamson singing
scholarship and the annual entrance seliolar-
siiip, tests for which were conducted at the
Albert-street Cop. The voices were mostly
good and the half-dozen judges had a
pleasant task.
The Tree Planters’ Association’s show of
rare eucalypts at the Town Hall included
the hucalyptu, v macro car pa, which suggests
a cactus with hard silver foliage and siim-le
large blooms, of rose-red tone. Another
unusual specimen of gum-tree had leaves
variegated with splashes of white. This
freak came up from seed, and so far the
association has not been able t 0 duplicate
it. iuriiiture made from the various gums
aud mountain ash and some beautiful
™ ere 011 show, together with such
y products as menthol, sheep-dip and euca-
lyptus oil.
Guests at a tea gathering at the Windsor
on i nday heard about the work of the Aerial
Medical Service of Bananaland. The party
was given to honor Dr. Allan Vickers, of the
a, V 1 1 was . staged by Dr. Dunbar
Joopei and Ins niece Lydia Hooper, assisted
y the secretary of the A.M.S, in Melbourne,
L George Simpson, and his wife.
The aquarium in the Exhibition Gardens
nas undergone renovations that have re-
moved some of the dismalness of its appear-
ance. The cave-like interior, bark-lined, has
more light upon its ruggedness, baskets of
teins depend from the roof, and canaries in
gilded cages twit cheerily. The fish .swim in
new glass tanks. The seals still are the
star attraction, but now have a rival in
a collection of small birds from various
parts of the world, presented to the Exhibi-
tion trustees by O. Gilpin. The birds, repre-
senting about a hundred species, are housed
in brand-new green cages arranged in an
annex. They include wliydahs, tiny black
things with long tails like a bunch of
ospreys; weaver birds, with bright orange
breasts and black backs; multi-lined love-
birds, crested bulbuls and Java sparrows.
Dr. Henry Bonfield Stephens came from
Ins home on lonely Nauru to marry
Winifred, daughter of the William Iloskings,
ot Clifton Hill. Satin of deep parchment
tint, a lace veil and a bouquet of magno-
lias graced the bride, whose two ’maids wore
frocks of flamingo-pink hue topped by tulle
caps edged with matching flowers, A small
trainbearer was in pink taffeta with roses
twined about, her hair. There were rejoic-
ings afterwards at No. 0, where the guests
included some folk on furlough’ from the
phosphate islet.
Something different from the general run of
bridal groupings was seen jit the knot-tying
of Lorna, younger daughter of the W. J.
McLeans, of Toorak, and John, second son
of Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Teague, of Malvern.
Instead of grown-up attendants the bride had
two little trainbearers in Kate Greenaway
frocks of white hailstone muslin, set off with
rose-trimmed pink muffs, wreaths of roses
and pink sashes. The wedding gown of
white crepe was slightly trained, and
fashioned with shoulder cape sleeves and a
cowl collar. The white tulle veil descended
from a wreath of orange buds.
Not many of the greatest composers have
had such success with their first work as has
been achieved
by little
Vivian Lum,
pictured here
by Broothorn.
Iler book of
■songs, “Sugar'
Lumps,” for
small boys
and girls has
had a sale of
close on 1000
in its first
couple of
wee k s, and
Allans have
had to print a
second edition.
Vivian, a nine-
ye a r - old
boarder at the
P.L.C., is a
pupil of Ren-
nie Simmons,
from whom
slie has been learning for 18 months. Two
books of short pianoforte pieces by the
youthful _ composer are now being prepared
for publication. “Sugar Lumps” is embel-
lished with clever sketches, illustrative of
each number, by Joan Arthur, a former
student of the P.L.C.
The engagement is announced of Peter
son of the late Sam Mackay, to Mary O’Neill’
an American girl whose parents reside in
Paris. The young man, who has been living
in England for some time,.came to Melbourne
last year to celebrate his 21st birthday by
collecting some of the money he is heir to.
An enterprising furrier has made an offer
to members of the Housewives’ Association
who live in rabbit-infested areas. He is pre-
pared to take as many rabbit-skins as can
be supplied, and to give in exchange for a
specified number of good ones a fur coat.
Mrs. Frank Heward and Anna Bendik-
sen put on a farewell billyboiling for organ-
ist Elizabeth Campbell, who sails for England
next week. Several old friends of the
musician were there to hand out good wishes.
The revue “Honi Soit” at the Princess
introduces some effective dressing. In one
ensemble human statues were scattered about
a garden with a water-lily pool. As the
gigantic yellow, pink and white buds unfold,
girls step forth in frothy frills of white and
flit around like snowflakes.
Society will be stirred next week by
the arrival of an erstwhile Melbourne girl
who has married into the peerage. Lady
Mandeville, youthful, dark-haired and dark-
*s.inc^ue her husband, Viscount
Mandevilie, and little son, Lord Ivimbolton,
on a visit to the lady’s sister, Mrs. John
(rrimwade, at Amesbury House, South Yarra.
fehe is eldest daughter of S. V. Stead, of
Melbourne, while Viscount Mandeville is son
and heir of the Duke of Manchester.
The Cairns Memorial Players had an official
opening of their new clubrooms, the evening’s
programme including dancing and bridge.
Also there was a reading of a short sketch,
llie K.C., and a dialogue from Noel
Coward s Hidden Lives,” acted by Norman
Balmer and Ellen Bromley, the lady in a
white satin gown with a border of black
* u r on the back of the low-cut bodice. A
third ottering showed how a play is broad-
cast, the cast seated round a table read-
ing their parts in front of the microphone,
while mechanical storm effects were fur-
nished to “The Monkey’s Paw'” of Jacobs.
Mrs. Aiine Macky having decided to re-
main in England, where she went on a holi-
(1 ay a few
months ago,
the New Con-
servatorium in
Sonora Ilonse,
whi e h sh e
founded, was
left without a
head. Violet
S o m e r s e t,
singe r and
teacher, and
Wini f r e and
hlo y and, who
were on the
•staff have de-
cided to carry
oil as co-direc-
tors. Here is a
l> ict u r e by
Ronald Esler
• *f Miss Somer-
set, w hose
mezz o-c o n-
t ralto voi c o
W.-1N t I'm in (Ml in Melbourne by Rudolf Him-
iner, and in London by Plunket Greene.
Mie also studied in Paris.
Away in the West:—
The Rev. Caton is mourning the death at sea of
his wife, Dr. Mildred George. Dr. George was
travelling on the Ascanius for her first trip abroad
She had many friends in this S'tate, where she had
practised since 1918, and in South Aus„ where she
took her medical degree. H er parents and her
sister, Mrs. Walter McRostie, are living in Perth
Knight Walter Kingsmill and his lady spent
thiee weeks here, making the Savoy their domicile.
Among receptions in their honor was an afternoon
tea at the Home of Peace. The Kingsmill lady was
a member of the original committee and the Home
is one of her pet charities. At (he party she was
handed, by Mrs. Olden, a bouquet of blossoms grown
in the Padbury garden at Guildford.
Fit^ Gela] d gathered (he Kingsmill couple
and her students to a celebration 0 f her School of
Speech Training in the Women’s Service Guild
rooms. Knight Walter swept the veil from an honor
board where in gleaming letters shone the names of
successful students during the last 10 years The
Kingsmill lady, in lily-green moire, was handed a
bouquet of roses, for which she exchanged a pile of
certificates to candidates who had done well in their
recent exams. Clever Betty Higham recited and
Zl B ® d 1 we11 Save an excerpt from “Richard III.”
The Silver Gull is having the finishing touches
put to her toilet in Crawley Bay. Built in Perth
Sohf P ? n r Ml ' S - Grey ’ She is a stout motor
nS Df f 1 !v ty Space for marine beas ties and
E I® °V the S6a floor \ The Gre i'* are marine
biologists whose articles figure in English and
American journals. They have a contract to carry
ut , fo '_ th f Br Aish Museum, for which they will
piobe the depths of the tropical seas north of Aus-
tralia. Captain Grey has chosen a crew of six
oea Scouts, who are enormously thrilled over their
good fortune.
Lillah Malloch, Nan Ford and Edna Russell waved
hankies over the rail of the Ormonde. London is the
stepping-off place of all three.
Mrs. Nottidge Moseley entertained her friends in
the drawing-room of the Savoy. Guest of honor
Mrs. L. Gardner wore flowered chiffon and a black
hat; her presentation posy was of mauve blossoms.
The hostess wore green and black figured satin.
At tea-time bridge tables were forsaken for a
flower-decked dining-room.
Adelaide doings:—
Adelaide is having the usual rush of pre-Lent
weddings. On Saturday next, Margaret, daughter of
ilr and Mrs. V. M. Newland, and Richard, son
will M 7' H ' H - 7 nlaby and the late Harry Dutton,
vvill be married at St. Peter’s College Chapel-
they leave the same afternoon by, the Orontes for a
honeymoon in Sydney and the South Sea Islands
The wedding of Major Owen, manager of the Aber-
deen-Commonwealth Shipping Co., to Mrs. Charles
Bayer will be celebrated at St. Peter’s Cathedral
on the same date. In the evening at St. Matthew’s
Marryatville, the marriage takes place of Frank
a,ld H ® atbei ' Margaret, only daughter of Mr
and Mis C H. Sherman, Commercial Bank, Unley
, ] ' tls - °- E - So «th, of Robe-terrace, Medindie, who
leawes for England by the Mongolia with her daughter
Pauline is being given a series of farewell parties
Among the hostesses have been Mrs. W F O fmt,
A ' Sneyd ’ MrS ‘ B- Meh, ' tens and Mrs; Frank
Mrs. Louis Wolheim, of Hollywood, who has been
paving another visit to her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. D. F. Laurie, will leave again shortly on her
homeward trip. Mrs. Wolheim is accompanied by
a nephew of her late husband.
Mrs. George Bryce left by the Cathay for her home
at Ibaban, Nigeria, after spending some months
with her mother, Mrs. J. W. Magarey, North
Adelaide.
Mr. and Mrs. Septimus Power arrived from Eng-
land by the Otranto on a visit to Australian relatives
and spent a day in Adelaide. Mr. Power, whose
lifelike, pictures of horses are featured in several
Australian galleries, is turning his attention to flower-
painting, thereby following the example of Haris
Heysen.
The engagement is announced of Kathleen only
cluck of Commander S. R. Symonds, our District
Naval Officer, to Captain Jack McKinna, son of the
Rev. and Mrs. J. McKinna, of Gilberton.
liaspberryland records:—
The Gov.-Gen. and our Lieut.-Gov. were both
interested onlookers at our 95th regatta and guests
at the official luncheon. The G.-G. had to leave by
for t,le nol 'th before the at-home aboard the
Albatross, the flagship for the day. Rear-Admiral
Dalglish and the officers of the squadron entertained
a throng of guests, and there were smaller parties
on the other ships.
That at-home was enjoyable.’ The Admiral, Mrs
Dalglish and Captain Pope received the guests In
the throng, besides the Lieut.-Gov. and his lady and
daughters Betty and Susie, were Bishop and Airs.
Hay, Lieut.-Co.l. and Mrs. Ileriot, the J. E. C.
Lords, knight Elliott Lewis and his lady,, the F. X.
de Envoys, Airs. Hungerford, Dr. and Airs. Arndell
Lewis, the Howard Buchanans, knight William Cullen
and Miss Cullen, the Alan Millers, the C. T. Butlers
Mr. and Mrs. Trios. Lyons and Miss Sybil Lvons and’
the C. T. Butlers.
The outstanding feature of Music Week was the
Norah Williamson-c?m-Mary Oorvaii recital, with Lila
Haney’s fascinating soprano for the vocal items
there were also a Hobart Orchestra concert, a
I hilharmonie ditto, community singing, an organ
recital, band concerts, the Orpheus Club’s concert,
and, as a wind-up, the performance of Haydn’s
Imperial Mass by the Wireless Choir and the A B C
Orchestra, under E. J. AlcCann.
Ihe Child AVclfare Association organised an
T ngrown-ups” Bail at the Continental, Lieut.-Gov
Nicholls and his lady had with them Admiral and
-lrs. Dalglish, Lady Allardyce and several of the
senior officers 0 f the squadron with their wives
Mrs. Howard Buchanan brought up her little flock
deb *;, for Presentation. These were Sheila Brough,
Ruth Chesterman, P. Gulleine, Sylvia Pedder, Afoljy
lin ner and Jean Darby. Betty Nicholls brought a
large party of bright young things of both sexes
to the ball.
A committee of girls, with Jean Johnston as sec.,
ran a. dance at the Continental, where they stood
in line at the entrance to receive their guests The
Eastern room was fitted up as a lounge, and the
decorations were chiefly of gladioli. Officers from
the ships in harbor augmented the list of partners.
Cup Day at Launceston races was fine until late
m the afternoon, when the rain came down. Lawns
and flower-beds were at their best, but most, women
cautiously adhered to the tailored suit, which loses
nothing by a sudden change of weather. Chairman
/' V, emons all,i Mrs. Clemons provided the usual
hospitality at tea-time and the Gov.-Gen. presented
the Cup to R. A. Ellis, owner of Alotive.
Mrs. C. J. Eady and daughter Alolly, who have
been in tile Cold Country for the last 12 months, are
home/ again.
Hobart’s Lyceum Club, which foregathers under
the glitter of cut-glass chandeliers, will shortly sav
adieu to vice-president Airs. Arthur Stourton, who
eaves with her tall son for a trip to England. One
of Hobart s public-spirited women, a daughter of the
late Hon. Donald Cameron, she has a kind and
capable finger in a score or so of local pies.


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape’ and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any. capital city.
s
r
■V,
vj
m
w
FOR
RT
ALE
U
YO
E
AR
SOMETHING DIFFERENT
mmttSsuua
wmamsk
m
m,
m
mm
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
«58 .«':S
111
m
i ■ fy
Above Broadway, Los
Angeles, brilliantly met-
ropolitan with its great
playhouses and stores.
Pullman sleeping cars, ob-
servation cars, “diners that
serve excellent meals . . . a
co-ordination of facilities
that makes travel a delight
at exceedingly modest cost.
The shortest, most varied
route to England is Trans-
America! Sail on the new,
luxurious “Mariposa or
“Monterey” Matson-
Oceanic sovereigns from
either Melbourne or Sydney,
to either San Francisco or
Los Angeles, stopping at
New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa
and Hawaii, a route rich in
dramatic interest.
Let us send you, without obliga-
tion, an illustrated booklet, and
assist you in arranging your
itinerary.
flee
Amebica!
America, pulsing with the
life of her great cities . . •
lavish with scenic wonders
. . . invites you to a fascinat-
ing visit. From the great
Mojave desert, rivalling the
Sahara ... the majestic
Rocky mountains ... the
mighty Mississippi “father
of waters” .. . Niagara Falls,
among the seven wonders of
the world, to the Catskill
Mountains of Rip Van
Winkle in New York State,
a constant procession of
new, different sights await
you.
All may be visited in com-
fort and ease over America’s
great railways.
m
! tM
Above —Mormon T*??}*,!
Salt Lake City...a *'3 h ‘ s ®*'"f
mecca on a fascinating f®
across the United States.
MATSON-OCEANIC LINES
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL AND INFORMATION BUREA
12 Bridge St., Sydney.
Telephone B 7981-3
Nobody Ever Knew.
BY D. H. SORTER.
TUG WILLIS and Nobby Clark met first
in the reformatory, to which they had
been sent in the optimistic hope that
they were reformable. They were kindred
souls ; they became mates.
Tug grew up tall, plump and timorous.
Nobby remained short, lean and audacious.
Both were predatory as young wolves.
A year or so and by separate ways they
drifted back to their native slums, met and
became partners in petty crime. Except
when their rogueries landed them in gaol,
they were inseparables.
The years went by and they were past
their first youth when a new barmaid came
to Nolan’s. A plump, Eton-cropped, peroxide
blonde. Nothing of the slim, boyish figure
about her. Something a man could grab
hold of, and hang on to. Thought no end
of herself. Wore flash clothes and showy
jewellery. Might be over thirty, but looked
less than twenty-seven. A pint of beer
drawn by her acquired a flavor that Jim
the barman couldn’t give to champagne.
When she rang up the cash register it became
a. celestial instrument, played with, a grace
a>id abandon that suggested a merrier place
than Heaven. The small change she pushed
over the counter with her pink-nailed, be-
jewelled fingers was more than mere. coin of
the realm. If she did it with a smile or a
jest or a wink, one walked on air for the rest
of the day.
Tug and Nobby were not in the class that
competed for the favors of ‘‘the likes o’ her.’
All the same, they hung on the fringe of the
throng at her end of the bar, and swigged
many a pint that they would not have done
if she were not within their range of vision;
content to look and long and join in the
chorus of adulation that all gave her. Being
without the pale, they were not jealous of
each other. They repeated her witticisms,
praised her contours in intimate phrase and
vied with each other in declaring what a
lionzer dame she was.
“If I were fifteen years younger, said
Tug, “I’d show some er them blokes sumpin’.”
“An’ if I wus fifteen year younger an’
hed me front teeth, yous wouldn’t have a ,
look in.” ,
It was this little jibe that started the
whole trouble.
Tug dodged into Nolan’s looking for
Nobby, and the bar was empty. Not even
Jim was there ; only the Empress of Pints
leaning over the counter and polishing her
ndils. ,
Tug might have been on another planet
for all the notice she took of him. .Even
his “Pint o’ beer, Miss Edith, an’ ’ow are
ye?” brought no comment. Lazily she took
a glass from the tray, well knowing that
the Tug type preferred a pewter, and, draw-
ing the beer as flat as she knew how, put •
it before him as if the smell of both offended
her nostrils. The sixpence he passed her
she rung up on the register as if she were
pulling a gun. She stood with her back to
him, and with poised arms smoothed her
burnished locks in the mirror behind the •
shelf of bottles at the back of the bar.
Leaning his bulk across the counter. Tug
gloated to see the white-gold stubble on
the back of her neck rise to the burnished
helm of her crowning glory. The white slope
of her shoulders, the pink lobes of her ears
—in each of which a pearl as big as a marble
was clamped in some mysterious fashion!
Did you ever see such arms?
“Ain’t it a loverley mornin’?” he asked
her reflection in the glass. “Be great if a
bloke ’ad won ther lottery an’ had a nice
car an’ nix to do till to-morrer, wouldn’t it?
Well, here’s hopin’!” And nodding to her
back view he poured the beer down his gullet.
Not a word had she spoken so far; but
now she turned and looked Tug straight in
the eye.
“And wdio might you be when you aren t
in Long Bay?” she asked with a smile on
one corner of her red mouth.
“Me, Miss Edith? Why, I’m Tug—Tug
Willis I’m orfen in here —since you’ve
been. Do a bit o’ scoutin’ for Tim O’Lough-
lin him as trains ponies, in me spare time.
First time I have a cert I’ll pass the dmkum
to you. Somepin’ yous can put yer shirt on.
“Don’t be vulgar, old geezer. Besides,
they’re not worn now; not by the best
in the middle of the laughter that
convulsed Tug, Nobby shoved his ugly dial
in at the bar door. Tug saw him in the
mirror, and the mirth froze in his throat as
a dirty finger beckoned. Timidly he turned
and shuffled to the door. Edith emptied the
remains of the beer into the sink as Tug-
shot out through the swinging door.
Nobby, waiting like a maddened ape ready
to spring, had caught him by the sleeve and
jerked him on to the pavement.
“ ’Ere —wotinell?”
“You, you durty dog! Goin’ in there an’
chippin’ to ’er! Stickiu’ yer fat ugly mug
up.”
“It ain’t such a rotten mug as yours. I
got me front teeth, any’ow.”
That was over the odds. Nobby smacked
him, first on one cheek and then on the
other. As he rocked on his pins, Nobby
wheeled him round and booted him in the
rear. Before Tug recovered, his balance,
Nobby was on the corner of the street. Tug
limped off in the other direction.
He had a couple of meths. at a joint he
knew and went into the grassless, shadeless
park to drowse and ruminate. Black hate
welled in his heart to think that his friend
of five-and-twenty years should have so
humiliated him. Nobby would be sorry for
this. Nobby had presumed too much. The
more he thought about it the madder he got.
Towards sundow-n he bought a bottle of
pinky that the flame of his anger might
increase in fierceness.
“Oh. the cow; the flamin’ cow!” he wailed,
and wept bitterly.
Nobby had not gone a couple of blocks
before he was sorry for what he had done
to Tug. Reverse the positions. Tug would
never have been so harsh with him as he had
been with Tug. No—it 'was not in him ;
he didn’t have the pluck, the big fat slob.
But, still, Tug was his cobber whom he had
humiliated in the public street. He shouldn’t
have done it: he shouldn’t have done it.
Nobby turned into the first pub he came
to and had a couple of rums, one oil top of
the other. The cockles of his heart warmed
towards Tug. Tears in his bleary
eyes and he wept like a child.
Nobby covered all Tug’s usual haunts but
failed to find him. He had a job that he
and Tug might do together that evening.
An old “ blighter at Waverley; who, ever
since Lang shut the Savings Bank, had kept
his cash in a box under his bed. Point a
gun at him and he’d cough up. A soft job
that he could have done himself; but it
would be friendly to bring Tug in on it.
He went to Ijis diggings and oiled and
loaded his gun. Then he laid on Ins
stretcher to wait till dark, when he. would
go out and find Tug'.... Never dreaming
that Tug, with anger in his heart, was comb-
ing the town to find him.
“Yes,” said the old girl from whom Nobby
rented a room, “lie’s upstairs—you know the
way.”
Sure, Tug knew it.
There was the door. Stealthily lie edged
it open. Nobby lay on his bed, asleep.
The pinky-bottle crashed on the top of his
skulk as the little gun barked, and Tug sank
to his knees in a huddled heap on the floor.
* * * *
“Now, this is funny,” said Jim, reading
to Edith the story of a Terrible Underworld
Double Murder in the yawny hours of the
next morning. “I knew those two blokes.
Useter buzz in here now an’ then. Pals all
their life, and now they go and do each
other in. I wonder what it was that got
their goat.”
“You can wonder till you’re black in the
face,” said Edith dispassionately. “When it
comes to keeping a shut mouth, these under-
worlders take the cake. This is something
that • nobody will ever know.”
A Vision of Maeve.
Beside the river bank they paused to eat
Brown whea.ten bread at midday, while
the corn
Stood yet half reaped, their sickles at their
feet.
Then the far echo of a distant horn
Died .like a fairy music in the west.
One said “The Shee is calling.” One arose,
Crossed his great arms upon his naked breast
And said “It is the horn Cuchullain blows.”
He knew that sign. White sunlight on the
spears
Of some great host flamed through the
summer green;
And there was waking of old harvest fears
And memories of bread that once had been
Snatched from his fathers’ hands on stubble
red,
The roof-thatch flaming and the women’s
wail,
While the white cars with a clink of silver sped
And grey manes tossed like waters in a gale.
But now the horns were many, nearer blown ;
Red lightning furrowed flame-paths through
the trees.
A distant clamor made a low, deep drone
As if the swarming west were wild with
bees.
One said “It is the army of the world ”
All stood together wondering and in fear
As, serpent-like, that marching dread uncurled
Its gleaming coils, each scale a sun-fired
spear.
Then ran the harvest men on heavy feet
To the stream’s brink and in the osier
gloom,
Knee-deep in lapping water, cool and. sweet.
Gazed forth upon the pride that challenged
doom.
Wheel on swift wheel the polished cars went
by,
Black wood, bronze axle, leather laced
with gold,
The gleaming horses with arched necks held
high—
Creatures of fire a feather’s touch might
hold.
And then they saw upon a whiter steed
That moved like starlight on a broken
cloud
The' woman whose swift glance was as a
deed,
Maeve of the golden wonder, fair and proud.
Her lips were red; and as she rode she
smiled
Across that challenge of untarnished spears,
Dreaming of battle calls on mornings wild
And victory clamorous about her cars.
They saw and trembled ; and the host passed
on.
Again the sickles whimpered through the
corn ;
And till the yellow of the day was gone
They paused to listen as each far-blown
horn
Sent back a dying echo from the east.
Yet knew they not that on those marching
spears
And those swift wheels for vengeful deeds
released
There shone the glamor of five thousand
years.
For Maeve in all her glory found a youth
Set at a ford, a challenge on his lip,
Alone, undaunted, with the hand of truth
Laid on the single sword he dared to grip
Against her bravest champions, one by one.
"Thereafter came great battle, honor bred,
Borne on all winds of fame beneath the sun ;
And Maeve’s great army buried its great
dead.
The harvest men have gathered in their bread
Season on season since the champions died
That mothers of the living might be fed.
The bannered summer has a grander pride
Than that tall queen who on her woman
breath *
Fanned the high flame of long remembered
strife
And played upon the brink of doom with death.
She played with death, holding too much
of iife!
DAVID MCKEE WEIGHT.


SUPREME IN EVERY TEST '
I
BOWLER.
BATSMEN OUT
Biliousness
Sluggish Liuar
0
Dr Horse's
Indian
Root
Pills.
Indigestion
*2*
Constipation
Headaches
0
Rheumatism
0
M!
Impure Blood
0
He art-burn
0
Dad
H
d Bream
0
h.
Clean Bowled byi Dr. Morse
-
Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment
For Stiff Joints and Sprains, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago. Invaluable for athletes. If unobtainable locally will be
forwarded, post paid, upon receipt of price—2/6 per bottle. The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney.
Thousands Subscribe to Australia’s Great Weekly Newspaper
1880 the mailman has regularly delivered “The Bulletin
to its subscribers.
Every week since
MAKE SURE OF YOUR COPY BY FILLING IN THIS FORM.
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., LTD.,
Box 2521 88, G.P.0., Sydney
Please forward The Bulletin for 12, 6, 8 months from
for which I enclose £
NAME ..
ADDRESS ....
RATES: Australia—l 2 months, 24/-; 6 months, 12/6; 3 months, 7/-
Overseas—l 2 months, 30/-; 6 months, 15/6; 3 months, 8/-
*
S'V^cV 1
yf
0°
0
1’
*.\V \
0 , ',
V #•
' $
••• ,
s«Ts«¥
• .•••' #y o <’
••• *§ > v V"
<s)<s** °* ,


THESE PRICES
■l*l*
you can secure
Goodyear Quality
You don’t have to take anybody’s
word for the fact that the PATH-
FINDER tyre, by Goodyear, is low-
priced. Here’s what it costs, in big
black type.
You don’t have to take anybody’s word
for the quality these prices buy. Every
price buys Goodyear quality—the name
Goodyear on every PATHFINDER tyre
is a guarantee of the utmost value for
the money.
At a time when everyone’s careful with
money, there is no need to take chances
on tyres when you can purchase sturdy,
safe, new PATHFINDER tyres at such
low prices.
Get rid of your thin, unsafe tyres now
—and get the safety of low cost, tough,
new rubber between your car and the
road—by fitting PATHFINDER tyres,
by Goodyear.
ŵ
N\
VSi
m
m
m
wc \ r
1
v
£
is
i
A
1
\
XS
-S-iJ
*
m,
/
/
/
/
y
Kiiijijaan
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
C 4 * 14 -33
WITH
CORD
