

KODAK
MAKES PERFECT SNAPS
EASIER THAN EVER
Cheaper than ever, too!
Two extra film exposures at an
extra cost of one penny in the
two most popular side 's Tf x // 4
inches and Tf x ffi inches .
Remember to turn to Nos.y and
8 after you have exposed No. 6.
iglMgl
B £*! '
' *****
S 3
u. ■- ~.4^,...^^.
mmm
S’ I '".:*
I >
-• •■
SC- : ■
li
lg 1
m
ililil^S
IT I
:
&
F
s2B*
■■
«
s
hMS
MNMI
*
%
*
N
.
:;i
r
m ..
/ % r -'-
. V^MOl
£
\
m
a
?■ ..,n
:<y
ilf : ;
m
«
■s
&L..J
P I
*,
Happy hours of childhood that
won’t come again —make them
yours for keeps—
With DOUBLE-COATED VERICHROME, the new Kodak
Film that gives you snaps you could never have
got before— clearer pictures—richer pictures.
With A I 933 KODAK—you owe yourself one, you
know! The super efficient Pocket Kodak will
soon make you an expert camera enthusiast.
Prices from S 2/6 upwards. Ask for Folder.
OF ALL KODAK DEALERS, AND
(Australasia) PTY LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.i., 250-252
Queen Street, Brisbane; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart;
662 Hay Street, Perth; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; East Street, Rockhampton;
Flinders Street, Townsville. . ~ ,
Also stocked by KODAK NEW ZEALAND LTD., 162 Queen Street, Auckland; 40
Princess St., Dunedin; 294 Lambton Quay, Wellington ; 681 Colombo St., Christchurch.
The Bulletin
offio 3
Vol. 54.—N0. 2769.
Wednesday, March 8, 1933.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


SEND for our Library Catalogue, con-
taining full terms and particulars. Sent
to any address, post free, on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424 -426 George Street, Sydney.
tmi
sill*
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College
100 Russell Street, Melbourne. '
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing /u
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 233
I^YSAGHTT
o
&
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
BOOKS
To suit all requirements and every purse
“NOSCERE” BOOKSHOP
Proprietor —FRANK C. MARDEL
New and Secondhand Booksellers
99a QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE, C.i
Telephone M 3387
m
&
Mothers!
CfjTicuitA Soap
Used Daily-
Protects the Skin
and Keeps It Healthy
Every member of the family
should use Cuticura Soap
regularly.
Price Is.
Australian Depot: R. Towns & Co.,
Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
VkLoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age” is a Victorian Newspaper of
National importance, and during the 79 years
of its existence has grown side by side with
the community, consistently advocating the
policy which has so materially helped in the
development of this young nation,
PROTECTION FOR AUSTRALIAN
INDUSTRIES.
If you desire to keep abreast of the times read
“THE AGE.”
It is timely,, practical, wholesome and helpful,
and provides a wealth of information on all
subjects having a genuine news value.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually..
Advertising rates obtainable at the principal
Advertising Service Agencies in all States,
or from
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
FACTS!
The only type of
circulation that
has real worth is that which is constant and
embodies the confidence of readers. These
attributes are possessed only by the daily
newspapers whose circulations are derived, not
by contests, insurance schemes, or high pres-
sure methods, but by real merit. They are
bought because people want theni in their
homes.
The daily newspaper
is so essential
to the New Zealander that even in times of
economic' stress he continues, to buy his
morning daily, so valuable is it for the
information it gives, both in its news and
advertisement columns.
Newspaper advertising is the most economical,
effective and forcible medium for reaching
the New Zealand public.
the Dominion
NEW ZEALAND’S NATIONAL
MORNING DAILY,
Is Outstanding!
Head Office:
“The Dominion” Bldg., Wellington, N.Z.
Australian Representative:
W. J. HESLEHUKST,
32 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ONE
ADVERTISEMENT
BRINGS MANY
THOUSANDS
OF POUNDS.
A large contracting
firm, Hornibrook High-
way Ltd., advertised
their prospectus in all
Brisbane daily papers,
and called for .capital.
The one advertisement
obtained magnificent
financial response
OVER 99 PER CENT.
OF WHICH WAS
THROUGH
The
Brisbane
Courier,
Member of Audit Bureau
of Circulations.
Representative:— .
Robt. D. Fisher—Bsoo7,
74 Pitt St., Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
**■ should read the “British Australian and
New Zealander,” 6d. weekly—an illustrated
paper containing mail and cable news from
Australia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially
invited to visit the “British Australian and
New Zealander” Reading-room at the offices,
414-17 Australia House, Strand, London,
W.C.2, where they can see the home papers,
meet their friends, use the telephone and
obtain information without charge. Copies
of the paper and general information can
be obtained at the Australian Advertising
Agency, Ltd.. 54a Pitt Street, Sydney; or
493-95 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Woman’s Mirror
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Published every Saturday
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TO
TASMANIA’S MARKET
through
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town
and Country—this Popular Weekly goes
regularly into the homes of the people, and
each issue is eagerly read by men, women
and children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest with, bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays.
Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
MACQUARIE STREET, HOBART.
Cable Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office: F. L. Wilson, Banking Hous"
Chambers, 228 Pitt Street.'
Melbourne Office: “Argus” Building. Elizabeth
Street.
The Red Page
HIS
BOOKS
Wit and Humor
They are rare qualities in current English
fiction. Most of the younger men are so
absorbed in the popular modern sport of
outraging the susceptibilities of the Pod-
snaps that they have no time to be amus-
ing, and their elders seem to lack the capa-
city. Priestley has been compared to
Dickens, but how feeble his characters
appear beside any of Dickens’s gigantic
figures of fun! The repetitive Wodehouse
is generally accepted as Britain’s lead-
ing comic writer at the moment, and he
stands well below such minor Victorian
masters as Anstey. Some of the popular
women novelists—Margaret Kennedy and
the writer of the “Elizabeth” books, for in-
stance —are natural humorists, but feminine
humor is unsatisfying; it lacks body. Just
as seven centuries without national rights
have put a mark on the Irish as a race,
so 50 centuries without political rights have
put a mark on women as a sex. There is
no outspoken heartiness about their jok-
ing; it is secret, almost sly. The first of
the books reviewed below is an interesting
example of the feminine touch. The writer
has a quick eye for character, a critical
mind and a capacity for intense indigna-
tion, but these things only appear between
the lines. The words which she knows so
well how to use often serve to conceal her
innermost thoughts, and she scorns to raise
her voice.
Ajrican Jungle
Mary Elizabeth Oake spent the first year
of her married life in the Cameroons, where
her husband was an Education Officer. No
Place for a White Woman (Lovat Dickson;
6s.) describes her experiences. Her hus-
band’s job was to direct the teaching of
native teachers. Running like a faint
undertone through Mrs. Oake’s narrative is
an impatient note of protest against the
whole elaborate business of Christianising,
educating and clothing (above all, cloth-
ing) savages. She doesn’t seem to have
met one who acquired more than a thin
veneer of Christianity, and the austerities
of Protestantism are particularly unsuited
to their temperaments. Most of them, for-
tunately for their health, only wear clothes
on special occasions. Disasters usually
occurred when they dressed. Here is a
picture of Mr. Enugu (“the one true edu-
cationist I met in West Africa”) got up
tc have his photograph taken:—
He wore a blue blazer with brass buttons,
a bowler hat, grey striped trousers, a red tie,
a flyaway collar and patent shoes; his foun-
tain-pen protruded from the pocket of his
blazer; in one hand lie carried his silver-
knobbed cane, in the other the school
register.
The thirst of the natives for the white
man’’S knowledge is strong, but education
causes much unhappiness, and there are
few compensating advantages, even in ex-
ceptional cases, such as that of Sarah, where
a smattering of it is acquired.
She was in the wretched position of a
person who lias gone far enough to be con-
scious that she is better than her sisters
and not far enough to see herself in per-
spective. She was afraid to let herself go
and be natural because she had an uneasy
feeling that her natural self was something
of which' she should be ashamed.
After nearly a year of bad food, doubtful
water and insanitary surroundings, Mrs.
Oake’s health broke- down, and she went
back to England. It is hard to indicate by
quotations the wit and reticent charm of
her writing. There are no purple passages;
she gets her effects by deft phrases which
look simple but are no doubt the fruit of
much knowledgable polishing.
Follies of Fleet-street
Mr. Pyecroft Goes to Heaven, by Rolf
Bennett (Collins; 7s. 6d ), is primarily the
story of a lunatic from the beginning of
his trouble to its tragic culmination. If
it were no more than that there would be
nothing much to write about; lunatic jokes
are more depressing than drunk jokes, as
a rule. However, the jokes are not too
much at the expense of the lunatic as of
those who take him seriously. Mr. Pye-
croft, an elderly London-clerk, persuades a
syndicate of business men to charter a
steamer and journey with him to a Carib-
bean island- in search of hidden treasure,
and shortly afterwards goes definitely mad
and imagines he is Captain Kidd. He gets
violent and smashes the ship’s wireless,
and to humor him the captain lets him
stand on the bridge in his pirate’s clothes.
A French steamer reports having seen the
Spanish Lady with
a man on the
bridge armed with
revolvers and a
cutlass, and the
British and Ameri-
can papers scent
saleable news.
Most of the London papers pointed out
tnat if this were true —and there was no
reason to doubt the veracity of the French
captain—then it practically confirmed the
theory that the officers of the Spanish Lady
were navigating her under threats of violence.
An American destroyer appears. Her com-
mander, who has heard the rumors, orders
the Spanish Lady to account for herself,
and, getting no satisfaction, puts a shell
through the funnel. She heaves-to, and the
commander comes aboard and interviews
her skipper, who, of course, is ignorant of
what the papers are saying.
“Am I to understand, Captain, that you
have had no trouble with your men, that
there are no prisoners on board ?”
“Certainly. There’s never been the slight-
est hint of mutiny. Why the devil should
there be? The men signed on at the recog-
nised rates, and the food is well above the
average.”
The headlines in London next day are:
“American Destroyer Beaten Off by Span-
ish Lady. Is it an Act of War? British
Ship Riddled with Shell Holes.” The
mobilisation of the fleet and the seizure
of the Hawaiian Islands are demanded.
The “Times” and “Telegraph,” while
admitting that the affair is unfortunate,
urge calmness; the “Chronicle” points out
that the trouble would never have arisen
had the Liberal party been in power.
“Whatever the outcome may be,” says the
“Daily Mail,” “one thing is certain, which
is that the death-knell of the Labor party
has been sounded”; and the “Daily Herald”
concludes: “If war is averted, as we sin-
cerely pray it may be, it will be entirely due
to Labor’s firm but conciliatory handling
of the situation.” The credulity of the
great newspapers is stressed throughout in
this vein, and it is delightful because it
is so entirely plausible.
Unconscious Humor
If John Clayton had lived in the six-
teenth century he might have helped Cer-
vantes materially in his task of smiling
Spain’s chivalry away. Gold of Toulouse
(Heinemann; 8s. 6d.) makes the Crusaders
seem even more imbecile than Don Quixote.
The heroine is La Blanca Rosa, her swain
Don Marcos de Nizana y Leon. The vil-
lain is her husband (“She wondered
-whether in all the darkness of the dark
universe there flew a vampire more loath-
some than Count Raymond de Toulouse”),
and his head torturer is one Camargo, a
deaf mute.
Camargo, at a word from the Count, had
stepped down towards her. With his win-
ning, deprecatory smile, which cloaked the
thought of tortures unnamable, unimagined
by any other brain even of that ingenious
age, he came, light of step, moving like a
dancer. No man-at-arms followed him: he
trusted in the paralysis of horror that ema-
nated from him, as cold from an iceberg.
La Blanca and Marcos escape from the
Count’s castle, but they are separated.
Camargo is sent in pursuit. Owing to the
incredible idiocy of both they fail to come
together till page 544, though they are
often within a few yards of each other.
Explanatory interpolations are common:—
Who was to tell him [Marcos] that down
there, almost within a bow-.shot, riding about
all day beneath his very eyes, and risking
her life again and again in sheer despera-
tion. was La Blanca Rosa? If only he
could have guessed that the watchful,
motionless .malevolence was Camargo!
Arrested mental development apart, the
fugitives are handicapped by their fantastic
scruples. On at least two occasions La
Blanca’s friends offer to exterminate Cam-
argo, but she asks them to spare him. A
paradoxical feature of this monumental
piece of fatuity is that the author has'know-
ledge and imagination, and he can write
in his own flamboyant style.
The Goitre of Mrs. McEvoy
An uproar recently broke out in Mel-
bourne over Mrs. McEvoy’s goitre. The
goitre is part of a bust of Mrs. McEvoy. by
Epstein, recently purchased by the Felton
Bequest for a considerable sum. The
“Herald” asked Paul Montford, the sculptor,
if an artist ought to portray disease. He
said no, in spite of the fact that Rembrandt’s
“Anatomy Lesson” is regarded as one of the
great pictures of all time and that innumer-
able painters have depicted the halt, the
lame and the leprous coming to Christ.
According to Mr. Montford, the fact that
Epstein chose Mrs. McEvoy for a subject
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —Tested Daily at Anthony Horderns!
“Hordura”
(Regd. Trade Mark.)
MEN’S MERCERY
A Brand that typifies Strength,
Quality, and Outstanding Value
obtainable only at
9
ANTHONY HORDERNS
HTHIS group of Men’s Mercery is all of the famous
A “Hordura” brand, made expressly for Anthony
Horderns’ by Australia’s leading mills. Each item
represents and creates a standard of value that is
unbeatable. Remember, Anthony Horderns’ assurance
of service is behind every “Hordura” production.
Fur Felt Hats, Pyjamas, from
176
* Hordura Hats are made of Pure Fur
Felt in the popular snap-brim shape.
Best trimmings throughout. In Plover
Grey, Zinc, Steel, Slate, Fawn and
Beaver. All sizes.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each . . 17/6
Golf Shirts, at
lift
“Hordura Golf Shirts in Durax
British Broadcloth. In 12 different
woven stripe designs on colored grounds.
Made with V-cased fronts. Dressed
Linen Bands and two soft Collars to
match. Sizes 13| to 19 inch neck.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each . . 11/6
Or three for 33/-
“Hordura” Pyjamas, made of Winter-
weight striped Flannelette with a soft
fleecy finish. Made in our own work-
rooms in full and generous proportions.
Sizes S. Men, Medium and Outsizes.
Price, 10/6. Extra O.S., Price, 11/6
Fancy Half Hose,
111
“Hordura” Fancy Half Hose. Quality
Cashmere socks that are all pure Wool
except ornament. Full in measurement
and extra long in leg. Smart designs on
Fawn, Brown or Grey grounds. Sizes
1 0 to 1 1 i inches. Price, pair . . . 2/11
12 and 13 inches, Price, pair . . . 3/6
Black Cashmere Half Hose, 2/11 pr.
"Hordura” Cashmere Half-hose i Plain Black in a winter weight. All pure wool
and unshrinkable. A quality half-hose that will give entire satisfaction. Sizes,
lOin. to Price, 2/11. 12in. to 13in. Price, pair 3/3
{Department—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and
railway stations in N.S.W. )
“Hordura” SHOES
(Regd. Trade Mark.)
for men who want value!
HORDURA EZY ARCH SHOES
.
/
“Hordura” Ezy-Arch Shoes for Men, in Tan
Calf, Black Box Calf and' Havana Brown.
Made with genuine welted, soles and fitted with
flexible reinforced steel support. . Full and
half sizes. Anthony Horderns’ Price, pr., 21/-
13ii
i Calf, Havana Brown
and Black Box Calf; neatly corded caps and
vamps; good fitting. Genuine welted soles and
heel seats. Full and half sizes.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, per pair . . 13/11
( Department—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight -paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and
railway stations in N..5.W.) j.
“THE SENIOR STORE .”
Made in our own workroom -
to stand hard and vigorous wear!
“TIGER-TWIST”
TROUSERS, at
per 14/6 pair
The Trouser for hard and vigorous wear is the
“Tiger-Twist,” made from material that has
stood a rigid examination as to its durability and
appearance. Good roomy cut, strong pockets,
extra strongly sewn and all strain points
are reinforced. In shades of Fawn, Olive or
Dark Grey, which are guaranteed fast to boil-
ing. “Tiger-Twist” Trousers are unshrinkable.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair 14/6
RIDING BREECHES
per 25/ ■ pair
Men’s Riding Breeches, made from a long-
wearing and reliable material. Cut in the
correct manner in hard-wearing Riding Twist.
In Fawn.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, pair 25/-
OVERALLS, 10/9
Men’s Overalls, made from best quality British
Drills. Good roomy cut to allow freedom of
movement. Double bib. Bib and Brace style
in Navy.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 10/9
(Department—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight
paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and railway
stations in iV.,S.T.)
m
ikv
m
1
Made in
Australia.
All Pure Wool
TRAVEL RUG, 21/-
Pure Wool Travelling Rugs. Australian made
in all the newest designs and shades. Finished
with deep fringed ends. Size 72 x6O inches.
Splendid value for such a quality rug.
Anthony Horderns’ Price, each 21/-
Merino Wool Rugs, 50/-
Pure Merino Wool Rugs of superior quality.
Reversible patterns. Many feature plain backs;
others have faint designs on the reverse side,
A range of designs and colors. Size 60 x 80 ins.
Anthony Horderns’ Price 50/-
( Department—Ground Floor, George Street. Freight
'paid to all seaports in the Commonwealth and railway
stations in N.S.W.)
w
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night.
SYDNEY
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


THE ZESTFUL LIFE
you enjoy a daily
" constitutional,” strenuous play
or restful lounging on deck, you will
be quite at home on Orient ships,
Deckspace is (and always has been) one
of the Orient Line's strong points ♦ ♦ ♦
and, equally, in good fare and good
service and in all matters of creature
comfort, Orient Liners are "well found”
OP'^E
f
m
/
1
-
1
r
und < Jri
Tsioh
Return
Tickets
Available
for Three
Months if
desired.
No exchange
charges.
Delightful invigorating ocean voyages
to the lovely Pacific Islands for no
more than the cost of a city holiday!
SUVA, FIJI.
Round Trip, 23 days, Ist Class Return, £35
HONOLULU, HAWAII.
Via Auckland and Suva, Ist Class Return, £75
Seven-weeks' Tour Cabin ~ „ £55
RAROTONGA, COOK IS.
Via Wellington, N.Z., Ist Class Return, £45
Twenty-three Days' Tour, Cabin ~ „ £34
PAPEETE, TAHITI.
Via Wellington and
Rarotonga .... Ist Class Return, £55
Seven-weeks' Tour .... Cabin ~ „ £4O
Excellent cuisine . . comfortable accommodation . . per-,
feet service . . Every assistance given to ensure a
delightful holiday.
Full details and illustrated literature from
UNION S.S. CO.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
<v
4
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information> copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from ;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
7S-75 Paterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. M. S. Allan,
National Bank Chambers,
71 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
contains everything that women
should know—from kitchen to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age. It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
V
3d.


This Snappy Style
Usually 19/11
Now
14/11
Save 5/-! Two smart styles—round
toe shape, as illustration, and square
toe. Black, Tan or Nut Brown Calf
Oxford, with genuine welted soles.
Half sizes. Wonderful value even
at ordinary price. Now 14/1 1.
AT
MURDOCHS
March
SPECIALS
m
i
m
m
mmm i
Men’s 6/6 and
7/6 Shirts - -
m #q
tc IJ
A leader in Style, Quality and
VALUE! Men’s Poplin de Luxe
Golf Shirts, in colored stripings of
every hue and blending. Collar to
match. Sizes, 14 to 15^.
Men’s 84/-
Suits - - -
rn //»
oVI 0
Men’s Serviceable Quality Blue
Worsted Sac Suits, in neat pencil
stripe designs. Ready for service.
S h *’. 42/ ?
34/9
Youths’ splendid quality D.B. Flannel
Suits in popular Light Grey shade.
Plain or with subdued stripe effect.
Sizes, 12 to 2\.
Boys’ 16/11
Suits - - -
in/ii
12/11
Boys’ well-cut Mid Grey Flannel
Tweed Suits, made with plain back
coat and plain knee knickers.
Sizes, 4 to 12.
THOUSANDS MORE !
We Pay Freight.
Kindly write to Desk R.
Murdochs Ltd.
SYDNEY
“The World’s Largest Men’s
Boys’ Wear Store.”
was a clear indication that he had a morbid
mind; a man, he said, who deliberately
chose such a subject was not an artist in
the true sense of the word. A true artist
had a mind which was repelled by un-
pleasant things, and he would do his best to
minimise an abnormal condition in a sitter.
W. B. Mclnnes, winner of six Archibald
Prizes, said he was inclined to agree with
Mr. Montford. A disease or a deformity
was not a beauty, but, in any case, in gen-
eral practice the painter would have no say
regarding abnormal features. Most sitters, he
said, would insist that such features should
be ignored or concealed as far as possible. At
the same time, sitters with marked heredi-
tary features were likely to resent any inter-
ference with them by a painter.
Now, if all this means anything it means
that the function of the artist is, not
to depict the truth as he sees it, but
to flatter the prejudices of his patrons.
The patron, if he is proud of a heredi-
tarily large nose, may even have to
restrain the exuberance of the painter for
falsifying nature if the nose offends against
what is regarded as conventionally beauti-
ful. This criterion has only to be applied to
literature for its absurdity to be revealed.
James Joyce, according to this idea, should
never have written “Ulysses” the way he
did, and Shelley should have made the
Cenci into an angel of light. Such a pro-
position is so childish that it would
not be worth refuting if it were not so
widely accepted. It is the creed, not of
the true artist, but of the “art” 'photo-
grapher, of the humble plodder after
society, grateful for an occasional pat on
the back and thankful for the crusts thrown
to him. A surgeon does not operate for
appendicitis on a patient whom he knows
to be suffering from cancer because the
patient prefers to consider that he has
appendicitis. If the patient insisted on
his prejudice in favor of appendicitis
he would be told to go somewhere else.
But neither Mr. Mclnnes nor Mr. Mont-
ford, according to the “Herald” report,
would do anything as drastic as that.
They would tell their sitters, in effect,
that the artist is a poor, humble thing who
takes his orders from the public and that
his ideas of beauty are governed by the
ideas on beauty of the man in the street.
Mr'. Montford accuses Epstein of having
“let sculptors down.” Possibly he has if
he has done a dishonest piece of work.
But to object to, his bust because he refuses
to be a professional beautician is not only
to let art down but to let down the public,
too. The artist who flatters the public
by deliberately falsifying truth is letting
it down just as surely as the politician who
tells the public the lies it likes to hear in
order to induce it to vote him into Parlia-
ment. The matter, unfortunately, goes
further than that. The professional beauti-
cian is almost the rule in Australian art.
As architect, he is responsible for the awful
houses in which the people have to live.
As sculptor, he is responsible for the dreary
statuary they have to look away from in
the parks. As painter, he is responsible
for the miles of mediocre pictures they apa-
thetically survey in their galleries. In the
rush for public approval and private emolu-
ment the sincere artist gets trodden under-
foot.
M. G. SKIPPER.
Sun in the Inkpot
A celebrated artist once asked me for a
recipe for happiness. I said, “Never be
happy on purpose although, of course,
it’s a constitutional thing.
Brennan—kicked and booted about the
world, as he was—appreciated life so.much
that his enthusiasms often made me leap
into the air. I remember him in a Woolloo-
mooloo pub, on a scorching day, with
traffic shadows crossing his face through the
slats of a Venetian blind. One sentence
stays: “The body of a woman is music
personified”; and, from that, he went on,
better than I can repeat; playing a re-
frain of Jeremy Taylor’s—“ The silent note
that Cupid strikes”—for a leitmotiv to
everything he said. A strange place to have
chosen for the utterance of such thoughts;
but he had no sooner spoken than our
surroundings ceased to exist.
Once, afterwards, I found Chris shelter-
ing from a storm behind some flats near
Elizabeth Bay. In the recess where he
stood, his cloak made sculptural folds;
while his eyes seemed to contribute fire to
the thunder; so that he resembled Pros-
pero on the desert island. Then, having
welcomed me, and seeing we were alone, he
began to chant, from Homer’s Odyssey,
immortal staves of ancient time.
Again, on Balmoral beach, this much
from Housman:—
The Spartans on the sea-wet rocks
Sat down andi combed their hair.
Yet again, at Hilary Lofting’s house,
Catullus—in English for our sakes-—a for-
tunate experience for those who heard him;
because he captured, by consonance, phrases
not to be forgotten.
All this was happiness-: but, now that
Brennan’s gone, I’m reading my books
through, and seeming to understand them
better than I thought I did, years ago.
Also, amusing and—shocking. I mean I
had caught Rupert Atkinson’s marginalia
habit; and my annotations remain funny
enough to make Douglas Jardine laugh.
Worth publication, perhaps: but comic linen
is only one remove from dirty linen; and
so
HUGH MCCRAE.
A Satchel of Books
Business As Usual (Collins; 7s. 6d.) is
by Jane Oliver and Ann Stafford, and the
line-drawings, which have character and
humor, are by Ann Stafford. It’s an old, old
story—that of a nice girl who loses Mr.
Wrong and finds Mr. Right—told on brand-
new lines. The - setting is one of London’s
huge multiple stores. The heroine, though
inexperienced, rises by native ability and
character to a responsible position before
embarking on the bigger business of matri-
mony. A charming romance with a smile
or two on every page.
Susan Plays a Lone Hdnd, by Monica
Ewer (Sampson Low: Robertson and Mul-
lens; 7s. 6d.). Some great London hotels
cater for drug-addicts; this novel describes
how it is done. Susan, as a cigarette-girl,
supplies favored patrons in all innocence.
Then she finds out what is going on, but by
that time she has learned to love Paul
Graham, the stern, sad-eyed manager, who
reads the Iliad in his spare moments, and
is disliked and dreaded by the staff, who
don’t understand him as Susan does. You
can guess the finish without putting an
undue strain on the intellect.
Local Color (Chapman and Hall; 7s. 6d)
is the ninth novel Rosemary Rees has
written, and it is well up to the standard of
“Life’s What You Make It,” which many
consider her best. Hetty Price, a typist of
30, wins a £lOOO prize, and goes on a holi-
day with the money. It is almost needless
to say that she finds love and happiness in
the end ; all Miss Rees’s favorites do that.
She is even nicer and more feminine than
the average Rosemary Rees heroine, and the
young man from Malaya to whom she gives
her heart is in all respects worthy of her.
The Man from the Bills, by Charles
Wesley Sanders (Wild West Club; 7s. 6d.).
Billy Barton is the man. He has been
framed for a crime he didn’t commit, and is
out for revenge. His enemies are the two
older Gentry brothers and one Edwards. He
half-strangles Pete Gentry, his comic A.D.C.
Barton plugs Bob Gentry, and they forge
relentlessly on to the mountain still where
the unspeakable Edwards awaits them in a
drunken stupor. Edwards gets a sound
thrashing in one of those all-in scraps which
look so convincing in the movies, and bolts
for his miserable life, but not before he has
revealed the Avhereabouts of Ruth, and made
the writing of the last pregnant sentence
possible, viz., “Down the slope they [i.e.,
Billy and Ruth] went hand in hand.”
Devil's Cub, by Georgette Heyer (Heine-
mann ; 7s. 6d. ). We first encounter the 24-
year-old Marquis of Vidal in his coach on
Hounslow Heath. Highwaymen! A shot
from the coach. The Marquis draws his right
hand from his pocket.
There was an elegant silver-mounted pistol in it
still smoking. The gentleman, threw it on the seat
beside him, and crushed the charred and smouldering
portion of his greatcoat between very long white
fingers.
Anticipating the methods of Chicago’s quick-
gunning gangsters, he has given the eight-
eenth-century racketeer the works from his
pocket. A servant asks what he will do with
the corpse. An expression of boredom flits
across the dark and extremely handsome
face of the Marquis. “My good fellow, are
you suggesting I should carry a footpad’s
corpse to my Lady Mortacute’s drum?”
He goes on like this all through the book
—-splendidly fearless, incredibly efficient,
ineffably bored with his hectic life —and
then comes lovely Miss Challoner, and Love.
No such people’ ever lived, of course, but
the world would certainly have been more
picturesque if they had.
And a Little Verse
YOU AND I.
You and I, where the breeze blows free,
Pleasure a moment from fetters find —
Free, yet not free; for what are we
But thistledown at the will of the wind?
Sounds of the sea on shoal and bar,
Now a murmur, and now a roar—
Thistledown on the wind are we,
That and no more.
You and I by a coastless sea,
Thinking of keel-less ways and wide,
Glory a moment, yet what are we
But weeds adrift at the will of the tide?
You by my side by a coastless sea,
Hearken the voices, the souls of yore—
What do they tell us: “Waste weeds ye are,
That... .and no more.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
GHOSTS.
Oh, sweet and haunting sweet are all the
ghosts!
The summer’s day would be
Insatiate with bliss
But in amongst the leaves (vague as a dream
And piercing as a kiss)
There stands the ghost of yet another
summer,
Saying- “When my sun shone
And my wind blew, life was
More lovely and more innocent, sweeter
than this!”
Oh, beautiful the night and kind the stars!
And we to Paradise
Would drift without a stir
Of sleeping leaves, without a shadow cast
Upon the moon, smoother
Than butter and yellower than silk, did there
Not call us back dear ghosts
Of other nights, crying
“Remember how happy and how young we
were!’’
Oh, lovely summer days and tender nights!
Here in a leaf, a star,
Is essence of all joy !
But even now the leaf, the star is haunted
With sweet that will not cloy,
With aching sweetness of the days unborn
When we’ll look back and say
“Ah, dearest of all times.
There was a happiness with no alloy!”
Yic.
JEAN IRWIN.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken
of communications insufficiently stamped. Name
and address must appear on the MS. No liability
is undertaken re contributions voluntarily sub-
mittedj and no MS. will be returned unless stamps
accompany.
Dafas: Sorry, but can’t see what you’re
driving at. Is your point that all interest is wrong ?
. ...0.T.5.: But why not write of the little things
you know about? The B.’s ideal is to have every
paragraph written by a specialist... .AV. B. Tas.:
Well, what more can we do? For nearly three
years we’ve run a monthly page “Any Suggestions
to Offer ?”.... Axel: The matter’s there ; but it is
very hard to f0110w... .A.J.8.: First verse: —
Simple things are what we need
To combat life’s worries;
Simple ' things should be our creed .
When trouble to us hurries.
But why not get right home? For example:—
Simple things are what we need
If we’ve digestive worries;
Simple dishes be our creed
And keep off hash and curries.
First Attempt: Practise for 12 months, and
then let’s hear from y0u.... Hugh G.: But it takes
all sorts to make up a continent’s army of tax-
payers.... T. Doubless: You’re wrong. Hydraulic
sluicing was practised in California before M.L. used
it. But the Maorilander J. R. Perry made import-
ant improvements... .Joan T.: We’d rather you just
tried to sing... .Christine C.: Promising, but still
self-conscious E.C.: Poems headed “Summer
Evening” and beginning “How quiet is the night”
just make a quick little curtsey to the snub-editor
and glide to the basket D.H.W.: Sounds as though
you’d had a wet week-end S.T.K.: No, try again.
Rejection shouldn’t mean discouragement. Our
basket has cradled many a good verse-writer and a
few poets E.S.C.: Don’t let sentiment turn to
sentimentality Brian S.: Manly, but not poetic.
. ...A.M.W.: Your volcano doesn’t make a picture.
... .M.C.: So simple a theme calls for simplicity
and music... .E.M.C.: More rhyme than reason....
M.J.8.: Community-singing romance lacks zest....
R.W.: Infantile F.D.H.: Switching from Christian
names to nicknames in that fashion is apt to puzzle
the reader.. .E.H.D. : Thanks for compliments ; afraid
wq cannot return them as far as your story is con-
cerned R.8.Q.: Crude J.A.K.: -Only worth
a par C.R.A.: Seems to Us too studied to express the
open spaces... .Ponderosa: Heavy fooling... .P.F.R.:
We’re satisfied you can do better than “Middle
Harbor.” And that’s a lazy metre you use
E.E.W.: Advice ? Certainly. Think more, write
less G.L.K.: Our bridge may be untouchable;
but we don’t often cross it without finding an army
of men tinkering with the surface of the roadway.
Pretty often there are so many barriers you’d think
a sheep-dog trial was 0n.... Vera S.: Truly, it’s not
poetry... .Lalage: Flat A.D.D.: Always some
merit; but either the thought doesn’t go deep or
the line is unmusical Anacreon: A weak little lilt.
Clifden: Much obliged Casu: You have been
over it “quite a few times.” But it still isn’t a
sonnet. In fact, we don’t believe it would be a
sonnet if a road roller went over it... .8.A.J.: Afraid
it would take a Shelley to persuade a modern editor
to print a cycle of the seasons.... Alfred de R.: Try
us with something not so free... .L.C.: It isn’t
done.... J.M.T.: —
Night, why are you so unhappy?
Winds, why are you so moaning?
We haven’t heard from the Winds; but a telegram
from Night says:—
The fault’s with him who asks the question.
Try Cokem’s Cure for Indigestion.
Athol A.: Death and his shining sword are too
old a combination D.E.S.: A bit sparing of your
rhymes; but you get an atmosphere... .Herbert R.:
Sententious Sindagain: Sorry, but we can’t offer
you a corner in our heaven.... L.L.: Nonsense. We
never did oppose borrowing for private purposes.
Macleod and Archibald only saved The B. by borrow- ,
ing from the B.N.Z Freeman: True. But if
capital losses were allowed as deductions, there would
be precious little income tax to collect for a few |
years. .. .Foresight: Too many words. And if you
don’t want the curses of every newspaper office
your stuff reaches, allow five times more space
between your lines... .Gilroy: What’s all the trouble
about, son? T.A.H.: The humor is indiscernible.
Wilber: Too much top-hamper Jonathan S'.:
Alfred T. would be no more incongruous a pen-name.
Hesperian: Your picture of Uncle Sam
Distilling from nations the blood to feed into his
national mint
And pour in a surge on the fool-tarnished altar
of God
drove us to the nearest bar for a stimulant....
M.R.E.8.: You flatter your Muse G.: One piece
is miles too long. As foi* the other: —
The powder she used was a revel,
Her fur coat was smoothly divine.
We kissed and re-kissed in the shadows,
Her sweet breath commingled with mine.
Why “in the shadows”? Why not “like the devil”?
. ...F.S.: Anyhow we feel glad he shaved and
washed his hands before he went to get married.
. ...T.P.8.: There was the makings of a good
ballade in it, but you will try to accent the
wrong syllable.... By Oh You: “The Drovers’ Cook”
fails to live up to the spirited opening:—
The drovers’ cook weighed fifteen stone;
He had one bleary eye.
. ...R.McL.: Can’t quite make out whether it was
a nigger or a black dog.... Dun Gene: “Young
Knockemfar” is a great deal too close to the
original G.L.L.: If Alfred Jingle had written
verse he might have produced something like that.
T.W.N.: Not bad, but what an unpleasant
stigma you seek to fix upon a residential suburb !....
G.L.: Doesn’t quite get a place.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.C.: Lad needs lessons... .L.S.: A scratchy batch.
. ...8.H.: Your pen leads you into some fearful
tangles.... R.H.: Go to a teacher, young man!....
F.L.: Wooden... .P.K.: Couldn’t reproduce that
blurred style... .J.L.: No landing space here for
your birdman... .S.T.: Badly placed and poorly
drawn .L.P.W.: You’ve a long journey ahead of
y0u.... J.E.S.: Good in patches, but the patches are
few....H.F.: You still have a lot to learn.... R.S.:
Have seen that old-clo’ hawker prowling around
before .R.E.: Shocking... .C.S'.: Tossed overboard.
. ...K.D.: Splotchy.... S.C.: Don’t care for all those
solid blacks... .E.W.: A motley collection....
D.M.H.: You just slap the lines down... .T.S.Mt:
Those few almost invisible scratches might stand for
'anything. .. .T. 8.: Man fairly well drawn, woman
atrocious.... S.L.: Don’t use such a heavy stroke.
....J.L.: Immense drawing of bearded swagman
might do for a scarecrow.. .S.D.: Distorted.. .S.W.:
Doubt whether you will go much further without
lessons. W.F.: He seems to be hanging by his
hair from the ceiling... .D.S.: Another injustice to
Ireland .S.M.H.: You’re coming on at a snail’s
pace.


9
a
m
mm
A
CM.
sim
MBmmm
■
A
SHU
f -
■
A
am
A::
m
H
MS
*
: : I
m
i
H
.
.
H
;?:: ■; ' ■ - ■ :
.
!Vfc>yir ■* ■
■
■;
■■
®«s
.. - *" • ,-■ ‘'TWSki
V 1
I
H
S1I1m»k
if
1
■ I
■ ■
'
. - ; , ■ :,
■
.
Mi
mm
c
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 54.—N0. 2769.
March 8, 1933.
TAKING THE LION’S SHARE.
“Democratic leaders in the United States House of Representatives to-day blocked the President’s proposal to follow Britain’s lead and put an embargo on the export
of arms to the Far East.”— Cable.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 B B; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 21/7-2)9 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Sussex Chambers, lh Panama
Street, Wellington.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Temple Bar 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 1/s.; 6 months, 12s. tin.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
0 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage on this Paper
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji and
United Kingdom via “All Sea Route”:-Id. for 6oz.
or part thereof. New Hebrides and United Kingdom
via France or America: Id. for joz. To all other
places: Id. for 2oz.
SCIENCE IN INDUSTRY.
The Russian Soviets may be a great danger;
but they are doing the world some good,
and would do more if the truth about
them were frankly told. Most of those of
us who thought we were Communists had
a few favorite phrases—among them that
labor produces all, wherefore the whole
product of industry belongs to the workers.
“Unrealisable and manifestly erroneous,”
declares Molotov, the Chairman of the
Russian Council. And, anyhow, Stalin him-
self asked, Who do you think are the
workers? Finding that in some places equal
pay was being handed out to all employees,
he thundered that such a system must
cease—there must be a difference in pay
between skilled and unskilled work. The
brain-worker was the basis of the whole
undertaking. After the spadework of
organisation had been done they produced a
Five-year Plan, and after that a second
Five-year Plan. It was for the planner,
the captain of industry, to decide what
should be done; it was for the manual
laborer to be speeded up till the task set
him was accomplished. “The planned rise
in labor productivity has been only partly
realised,” Molotov declared a year ago.
“There is a big minus. We must leave no
stone unturned to remedy this, aided by
a firmer proletarian discipline and by tech-
nical developments.” The importance of
the technician—the man who can apply
science to industry and the arts—is continu-
ally stressed. “The Bolsheviki must become
expert technicians,” Stalin gave as his
watchword. “This must be the watchword
of the second Five-year Plan,” added Molo-
tov. Brawn is pushed right into the back-
ground. In the view of its leaders, the
one hope of success for the great Russian
experiment lies in the application of science
to industry.
In Australia we have a little-known body
called the Council for Scientific and Indus-
trial Research, and the prickly-pear has
been one of its recent cares. This pest had
taken such a hold of Queensland and the
northern part of N. S. Wales that it was
swamping a further million acres a year—
entirely destroying its value for any practi-
cal purpose. Many methods of attack
had been tested, from the cochineal insect
to poison gas and the heavy roller. But
so difficult was the campaign that no sub-
stantial success was reached until the insect
cactoblastis was discovered and tried. That
was in 1926-27. By 1929 arrangements were
in hand for covering almost the whole of
the infested area in the two States. By
the end of 1930 no less than 3000 million
eggs of the insect had been produced and
distributed. In another year the insect was
on practically every acre of the tremendous
pear-infested country in both States. There-
after Alan F. Dodd, officer-in-charge of the
Commonwealth Prickly Pear Board’s in-
vestigations, reported:—
As an example of the remarkable progress
achieved by cactoblastis one instance may be
given. In August, 1930, the continuous and
almost unbroken pear belt along the Moonie
River showed for 150 miles no destruction,
and so light an infestation of cactoblastis
that further distribution was considered.
However, the increase of the insect was so
rapid that in two years (August, 1932) 90
p.c. of the primary pear had disappeared.
This authority affirms that probably 80 p.c.
of Queensland’s dense primary pear has
been destroyed, and from 50 to 60 p.c. of
that in N. S. Wales outside the Hunter
Valley and Camden districts; and these
areas and the secondary growth on the other
areas are now having the special atten-
tion which their circumstances call for. Not
only has the advance been stopped, but
a territory greater than that of all Vic-
toria has been handed back to us; and
what was a national danger has become an
asset of enormous value. Already three
million acres of recovered country has
been reselected and resettled.
And it is not only the professional scien-
tist who does these amazing things. Thirty
years ago Coghlan reported in his “Seven
Colonies” that in 1861 the average wool clip
per sheep in N. S. Wales was 3.281 b. and
jn Queensland 3.401 b. For 1932, in N. S.
Wales, according to the Government Statis-
tician of to-day, it w 7 as 8.91 b., and for five
years had averaged 8.21 b. Thus 100 sheep
will produce to-day as much wool as 245
did 70 years ago; and most of the progress
has been made in the last 30 years. Though
figures equal to these are not common we
shall find many others almost as extraordi-
nary in the history of the land industries of
Australia. Thus in 1891-1900 the average
Australian wheat yield per acre was 7.32
bushels; thereafter, by 10-year periods,'it
was 8.32, 10.69 and 11.99 bushels. For S.
Australia alone the average yield in 1890-
99 was 4.69 bushels; for 1920-29 it was 10.72
bushels.
Science has done even more for the
workers in other industries. Forty-odd
years ago, when the first zinc was found in
the Broken Hill mines, men shook their
heads and prepared for the end. There
was no known method of profitably treating
a complex ore in which lead and zinc were
so intimately associated. But at once the
problem of the sulphides was attacked; and
gradually it yielded its answer, mainly
through that fascinating flotation process
with which Australian chemists enriched the
world. Between 1890 and . 1895 we had
exported £7677 worth of zinc; between 1911
and 1916 we sent £6,861,489 worth. Broken
Hill would have been a deserted field 30
years ago had not the chemist thus come
to its rescue; and what lie did for Broken
Hill he and the engineer have done in
greater or less measure for Mt. Lyell and
every other mining field of Australia.
It is quite true that our most urgent
need of technicians—of chemists and
engineers—is due to the fact that other
peoples have them. But it is not only
because external competition calls for
science in industry that it is of such vast
consequence. Our Russian friends know
that. For them foreign trade is but a
means to an end. The aim of the second
Five-year Plan, including its export pro-
gramme, is “to supply the population with
double or treble the present quantity of the
most important commodities and food-
stuffs.” In plain words, they expect that
the application of science to industry will
in so brief a time give to the millions of
Russia twice or thrice as much food and
other necessaries and minor luxuries as
they had ever been able to achieve with-
out it. The figures of what we have done
in Australia suggest that it is quite possible
for Russia to succeed in this: they have only
to follow where others have led. But what
Russia can do is not the matter of real
importance. The outstanding fact is the
enormous part that something quite out-
side hard physical toil plays in industry and
the world’s progress. The Communist of
the soap-box—who is with few exceptions
the only Communist Australia knows—
would almost exclude from the army of
“workers” the most skilled tradesmen: they
are at least suspect. The' truth as Lenin
and the Russian leaders clearly see it is
that without direction and the help of the
technician the casual and unskilled laborer
counts for hardly anything in a nation’s
struggle for better conditions.
THE LAST “TEST” FOR TEN YEARS.
The last Test match of the season has
been won and lost, and it was as unsatis-
factory as those that had gone before,
Most of the cricket was thoroughly bad,
and so was the atmosphere in which it
was played. Now, if this bad feeling were
a recent development we might well look
for an explanation in the events of the
tour and the manner in which the teams
were handled. But there was bad feeling
long before this series started. Australians
who were in England when the last Aus-
tralian XI. was there were made to realise
how poor an opinion of our sporting quali-
ties was held in those quarters; and that
attitude was naturally resented. Had a
team been sent to Australia with veiy
definite instructions to remove this bad
feeling, and chosen with that object in
view, great good might have been done.
But such a thing aparently never entered
the heads of the selectors or those respon-
sible for the conduct of the team. On the
contrary, right from the outset, things
were done which could only make the situa-
tion worse.
The selection of Jardine, a provocative
man, as captain was a fundamental error.
Yet no doubt those responsible knew quite
well what they were doing—knew that as a
captain he is a great match-winner as Test
matches, are won to-day. That very emi-
nence should, in fact, have been his disquali-
fication ; for almost the whole trouble lies in
the manner in which matches are won. When
cricket was cricket it was not the captain
of the opposing side who had to protest
against the “unsporting” practices of a
bowler, for example; cricket was cricket
because, among other things, one was far
more concerned about playing the game
than winning the prize. We reprove the
crowds to-day for what we call their bad
behavior; good stodgy old papers say that
this and that demonstration was “un-
pardonable.” For . its part The Bulletin
is little disposed to quarrel with the crowd.
The crowd knows almost instinctively that
something is very wrong. It has been
trained to look upon cricket as a game in
which no “points” are taken; and when it
sees “points” taken it is angiy—although
admittedly it is keener to see' the offence
in its opponents than in the home team.
Apart from that one defect it is good to
see the crowd’s dislike of the practices
which have crept into the game. It is the
game’s best hope. When the crowd
approves, cricket’s day will be done—and
will deserve to be done.
For the immediate future our best course
would seem to be to drop all those things
which tend to make the prize greater than
the game; and “the ashes,” of course, are
the greatest prize of all. If we can forget
all about them for 10 years, meantime
wiping Test matches right off the pro-
gramme, we may produce a new cricketer
who will play in a new atmosphere. Other
changes may no doubt be called for.
Games that last five or six days are not
for amateurs. We may pretend that they
are amateurs who play them, but either
they are professionals in disguise or we
are being very unfair to the players. Take
the case of a young man like Bradman, for
example. Unless he does make a pro-
fession of cricket in some way—and under
our system it has to be a backstairs way
—what hope has he in any calling? While
his name is in the public’s mouth he can
get a billet, of course; it may be on a
newspaper, it may be as a canvasser or
traveller. But for the ordinary job in life
he is handicapped almost out of the race;
and, when his day is over, he, at the veiy
best, opens a sports depot somewhere, just
as the old-time pug took a hotel—and
generally failed in it. In England it may
not be as serious a matter as - it is here.
For one thing, there is a large leisured
class there; and, for another, most of the
big cricketing counties are within veiy
handy distance of one anpther. In Aus-
tralia when we take up one of these young
men and encourage him to devote himself
to big cricket, we are for the most part
condemning him to be a failure in almost
every other business. If England, with its
different circumstances, chooses to go on
with the present rules—well, England must.
But that is no reason why we should follow
and in the process do this injustice both
to these youngsters and to our country.
MANCHURIA AND MORALS.
Judging by the attitude adopted by many
influential London newspapers towards the
Manchurian affair, there seems at least an
even chance that, if an attempt is made to
coerce Japan, British sympathies may be
aligned against the League of Nations.
Apparently the morals of the business are not
occasioning much concern in any quarter
outside China. But the morals ought to
be considered, because, if we are going to
be involved in a scrap over it, we will not
feel very happy if it turns out that we are
not on the same side as the angels.
Japan explains that her course of action,
which has, as the “Times” puts it, involved
the “repudiation of the obligations of
treaties and of the Covenant,” is neces-
sary in order to protect her rights and
interests in China. It becomes of import-
ance, therefore, to ascertain how those
rights and interests were acquired. It is
safe to say that were the matter submitted
to an upright international Court, the Court
would find that Japan has no clear legal
rights whatever in Chinese territory as at
present constituted. By conquest, in 1894,
Japan obtained possession of Formosa and
the Liaoting Peninsula. The rest of the
world insisted that that was quite enough,
and the rest of the world has been affirm-
ing at intervals ever since that the inde-
pendence and territorial integrity of China
must be respected. Any rights, interests
or territory Japan has obtained since the
treaty of 1895 by the then straightforward
and permissible but now tabooed right
of conquest has been obtained either by
fraud or by illegal violence. China has
never been a consenting party. The prin-
cipal reason why the U.S.A. Congress re-
fused to ratify the Versailles Treaty was
that China hadn’t signed it. China refused
to sign because the Treaty handed over to
Japan Germany’s rights in Shantung, in
pursuance of a secret agreement entered
into between Japan, Britain, Russia and
Frafice, in 1917. It was the price of Japan’s
help in the Great War; it was also Japan’s
price for entering the League.
If Japan took her documents into an
international court they would be ruled out
on the ground that they were either not
signed at all by accredited representatives
of China, or signed under protest and under
threats of armed force. Evidence could be
called—China would jump at the oppor-
tunity—that her politicians have been
debauched by Japanese loans, that Japan-
ese agencies have seriously contributed to
domestic disturbances and that Japan has
never, at any stage of her dealings with
China, shown a sign of a moral scruple.
Japan is a useful ally to the British
Empire. She balances the naval power of
Uncle Sam in the Pacific and her friend-
ship helps to guard India. Her country
is over-populated, and she has an economic
claim to more territory. But on those last
counts, the world, expressing itself on the
League of Nations, discourages the enforce-
ment of economic claims by violence, and
wisely so, for such claims can be advanced
by many nations. Japan’s case on this
side, too, is the weaker because she has
failed to demonstrate her talent as a colon-
ising nation. Like China, she is a good
parasite, as proved in California and the
Philippines, but a poor coloniser. To
colonise involves a capacity for self-gov-
ernment, which cannot be looked for in an
Asiatic race whose sovereign is endowed
with divinity and which, while it plays with
some of the forms of democracy, remains to
all intents and purposes the instrument of an
absolute monarch. We may have to choose
between Japan and the League. If so, we
may as well realise at once that if we
shout “Banzai” we will have to throttle
our consciences.
FROM A CHINESE MOUNTAIN-TOP.
“Those who are wise,” said General Lim
Sam Ivee, “have no wide range of learning;
those who range widely are not wise. So a
voluntarily retired general, seated on a
Chinese mountain-top, may have something
apposite to say about the world’s affairs
before his country calls him to take part
in the present conflict.
Ihe fray in Jehol is merely a local
symptom of a disease which is world-wide.
Two great systems of government at present
divide the world. Curiously enough, in
their salient features they are very much
like each other. The State Capitalism of
Russia, which its controllers like to call
Communism, has spread Soviet republics all
along the borders of Asia on the landward
side, from the Black Sea to the shifting
boundary of Inner Mongolia. Western
Capitalism, based on private enterprise and
supported by armed national Governments,
has conquered the coasts of Asia, either by
force or through the agency of finance. The
Chinese Government is the puppet and
Japan a local product of the system. The
Soviet system is a vast pyramidal struc-
ture with the effective power in the hands
of a few men at the top whose will to
power is called the dictatorship of the pro-
letariat. • A commissar is only a Henry
Ford in a. worker’s jumper. He wields that
power through the ability to grant or with-
hold work and with a ruthlessness hitherto
unequalled. Work is the only means to a
subsistence, which is why it has been turned
into a god and why shock brigadiers of
workers’ corps are accorded the adulation
others give to their leading cricketers.
The Soviet rulers say that when Russia has
been completely proletarianised they will
voluntarily delegate their power to the
people. This is the new romanticism. There
is no previous record in history of the
holders of power yielding their control to
anything but force, and five-year plans will
be succeeded by fresh five-year plans and
then by ten-year plans. Sovietism, in short,
is the capitalist magnate in the throne of
the bureaucrat.
“The Western system is also a pyramid.
Those of you Westerners who still believe
in the reality of national independence are
welcome to your faith, but the economic
collapse of the last few years, from the
effects of which even a Dyak in the forests
of Borneo is not immune, has shown that
every country’s policy is subject to external
money influences. When the crash came one
country after another endeavored to assert
its independence, but only succeeded in
making its internal chaos greater. Some
countries raised tariff walls against each
other, others submitted to Fascist dic-
tatorships, but the result was the same.
Most of you Westerners still believe in
democracy, and your people have placed one
political party after another in the seats
of government, but only to find that your
Parliaments remain dependent on the same
invisible authority.
“The Russian pyramid is based on one
national group; the more precarious West-
ern pyramid overlaps a hundred boundaries.
You go to war and the boundaries shift,
but the pyramid remains, though not alto-
gether unshaken. There are indications that
both pyramids are founded on a quick-
sand. For both of them rest on the assump-
tion that in manual labor lies the only, or
at any rate the principal, claim to pur-
chasing power. But Western scientific
genius has invented machines, incredibly
marvellous machines, and they are making
manual labor more and more superfluous.
Do you see that string of coolies carrying
packs on their- backs? They are taking tea
to Tibet and they will be weary months
on the journey. In China we are still in
the age of the wheelbarrow, the wooden
plough, the private craftsman, the age of
scarcity. But you are different. You are
living in the age of mass production, of
mechanical men, of solar energy harnessed
to machines, the age of plenty. Yet you
talk and behave as if you were as poor as
we are, so poor that some of you have
welcomed our little war because it means
clothes and food for your munition workers.
“The Westernised Japanese are fighting
the Chinese because they think they are
poor and that they can make themselves
rich by taking something from us. They
think they are poor, although they have
many more machines than we, but they do
not know how to use the machines so as to
make themselves rich. China has no mote
hope of defeating Japan than a Spanish
galleon would have of sinking a modern
man-o’-war. The road to Jehol will be
paved with corpses and cemented in blood,
but that is all. Japan will come into pos-
session of more Chinese territory, but only
to find that she has mortgaged still more
of her property to international finance.
Men are not consciously evil. They do
evil through ignorance.”
FRNG-SHUI.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Secession and the Law.
Latham, K.C., the Federal Attorney-
General, did Westralia a good turn the
other day by pointing out that, even if the
coming vote for secession was absolutely
unanimous, “it would have just as much
legal and Constitutional effect as a vote of
Tasmania for the secession of N. S. Wales.”
But, as Latham also pointed out, “a vote
in favor of secession may gravely damage
the credit of Australia, and may therefore
seriously injure Westralia.” Indeed he
might have gone further and said that this
agitation, intemperately carried on as it has
thus far been, may itself do much damage.
It is all very well, if you are sure of having
your name removed from the share register
of a co., to cry from the housetops that it
is a rotten concern, and that membership
has been a burden and threatened you with
ruin; but if you are not sure of getting
your name taken off the register, then
you are, by your curses, simply destroying
the value of your own property.
And there is not the faintest shadow of
a hope that Westralia will get its name
removed from the register of States. “All
that is needed,” the secessionists say in
one of their manifestoes, “is the voice of
the people of Western Australia and an
Act of the Imperial Parliament. The
people of the Eastern States will have no
vote in the secession referendum.” They
will not, indeed; and for that veiy reason
the referendum is as valueless as anything
can be. Our Commonwealth is “indis-
soluble.” The U.S. Articles of Confedera-
tion declare that Union to be “perpetual”;
and the highest Federal authority, the U.S.
Supreme Court, has therefore had occasion
to consider this question of indissolubility.
In Texas v. White (1868) it said:—
When Texas became one of the United States she
entered into an indissoluble relation. There was
no place for reconsideration or revocation except
through revolution or the consent of the States.
The decision was so emphatic that the
question has never been raised since.
It is true that our case differs from this,
inasmuch as cur Constitution is embodied
in an Imperial Act. So, too, it is interest-
ing to observe, is the much-earlier Canadian
Constitution. But there is a very striking
difference between the two. The Canadian
Act makes no reference to indissolubility:
its framers deliberately forbore to ask the
Imperial Parliament to bind its successors.
That was well in accord with the spirit of
the time. Todd, in his “Parliamentary
Government in the. British Colonies,” said
that “a Parliament cannot so bind its suc-
cessors, by the terms of any statute, as to
limit the discretion of a future Parliament
and thereby disable the Legislature from
entire freedom of action at any future
time.” But Todd could not have written
that in 1933. The Privy Council in the
N.S.W. Leg. Council case (1932) held that
a Legislature is not wholly free to repeal
past legislation. Bavin had passed an Act
providing that “no bill for abolishing the
Leg. Council should be presented for assent
until it had been approved by a majority
of the electors,” and the same provision was
to apply to a bill to repeal the section. Lang
carried bills through both Houses (1) to
repeal the section, (2) to abolish the
Council. The question of their validity
went to the Privy Council, which held (1)
that the State Parliament had power to
make laws respecting the Constitution pro-
vided they were passed in such “manner
and form” as might be required by law, and
(2) that the provision that bills of the
nature stated must be approved by the
people was a provision as to “manner and
form,” wherefore the bills could not be
presented for assent until they had been
so approved.
It may be that the Privy Council deci-
sion does not bmd the Imperial Parliament.
But it is quite certain that the Imperial
Parliament, in view r of the provisions for
the amendment of the Federal Constitu-
tion, and in view of the Privy Council
decision in the N.S.W. Leg. Council case
(because of its bearing upon the use of the
referendum), would not think of passing a
measure to dissolve a Federation which it
had itself declared “indissoluble” without
the consent of the constituent States. And
in that attitude it would have the support of
the U.S. Supreme Court, which in a similar
case declared “there was no place for re-
consideration or revocation except through
revolution or the consent of the States.”
♦
The Queensland Wheat Muddle.
A searching inquiry ought to be made into
this matter. In the beginning the State
Government offered to guarantee 3s. 6H
for the entire Queensland crop of first-grade
milling wheat, with rebates for inferior
grades. There was a proviso that the sum
offered should include the Federal bounty.
The liberality of the offer, in view of
market conditions and prospects, was the
most astonishing feature of the whole busi-
ness. The board delayed, the delay led to
the withdrawal of the offer, and the public
ought to know the real reason why.
There was a scheme, apparently, in the
minds of some people to work up a flour-
milling enterprise. It was, indeed, put to
protesting farmers that they had been
rooked by private millers in the past, and
that, as it would not be difficult to induce
the Government to keep southern wheat out
of Queensland, a co-operative flour mill
would simply coin money for local wheat-
growers if the board—a State-instituted
concern—hung on to the whole of the
season’s crop and thus established a mon-
opoly. Anyhow, the board would not accept
the offer, and after negotiation the Gov-
ernment cancelled it. The millers then
were offered the wheat on the board’s terms
—3s. 6£d. plus bounty—but of course re-
fused it; and, since a co-operative mill, even
if it were established, could not operate for
many months, the private millers had no
alternative but to go south and buy. They
have been doing this in order to satisfy
current requirements; and, since the board
showed no sign of listening to reason, while
the Government refused to add to the board’s
members or otherwise intervene, purchases
have been made sufficient to carry on well
past the middle of the year. And the
Queensland farmers’ wheat is lying unsold
and farmers’ bills are in consequence un-
paid. Worse, the board is faced with the
dreary prospect of having to sell overseas
at a ruinous price . what the Government
was prepared to give 3s. for.
In short, the ill-starred farmers have been
made cat’s-paws of by people who thought
they saw in the board’s command of the
year’s crop a chance to set up a new busi-
ness, with all the nice jobs and pickings
that a new business means. The board’s
part in the unfortunate business will prob-
ably be found to be simply that of men
who have been too ready to. listen to half-
baked schemes.
«
On the Defence Dole.
Whatever the result of the affair in East-
ern Asia, it will not improve the perilous
situation in which Australia stands to-day,
a situation which it seems content to
ignore in the face of all the portents. It
is almost inevitable that a land-hungry
nation, turning from defeat to easier con-
quests, or inflamed by success, should cast
an eye abroad for fresh fields to ex-
plore. The story of international aggression
is full of instances of such slogans as “White
Australia” being brushed aside by the strong
hand, and of treaties and covenants being
torn up,
For a time at least a manlier and more
provident Australia did make an effort to
carry a portion of its own insurance risk.
To-day it has abandoned practically every
effective defensive precaution and stands
the most impotent and helpless in the face
of possible outside aggression of any
country claiming a national status. It has
openly and brazenly gone on a defence
dole, throwing itself on the sufferance of
Britain for protection from the conse-
quences of its own political cowardice and
national indifference. Yet all the signs
point to the fact that, should the storm
break, Britain herself will have to fight
with her back to the wall for bare existence.
♦
Australian Books.
With the issue of the first volume from
the Australian Book Publishing Co.’s
Endeavour Press, Australian literature last
week entered upon a fresh stage in its
journey. It is true that many books had
already been published in this country; in
that connection the record of Angus and
Robertson is particularly meritorious. But
the work has been undertaken as a side-
line by firms primarily booksellers, and
has therefore necessarily been more or less
sporadic and irregular. The new co. will
have no other purpose and work except to
produce books for Australian consumption
and Australian books for consumption
abroad, and its very life will depend upon
the cultivation of Australian literature and
a public taste for it.
That the supply will be ample seems
already beyond doubt. Of novels alone
300 have been offered for the consideration
of the new enterprise, besides what is
surely a greater flock of unpublished verses
than any other country in the world with
twice our population could muster on short
notice. There is, moreover, in existence a
surprising number of scientific and historical
manuscripts which definitely call for publi-
cation. Our natural history is among the
most interesting in the world; yet, apart
from one or two volumes like Burrell’s
“Platypus,” very little indeed has been pub-
lished about it. The new co. will at once
enter this almost virgin field.
In view of the enthusiasm with which he
has for so many years advocated book-
publishing in Australia, it is entirely in the
fitness of things that a book by Norman
Lindsay—a boys’ book recalling his de-
lightful “Magic Puddin’” of other days—
is the pioneer offering; equally fitting that
it should be followed by a new volume of
verse by the most popular of all Australian
bush balladists, “Banjo” Paterson; and fit-
ting, too, that its partner in the issues for
March should be a reprint of Louis Stone’s
“Jonah,” which, though it achieved one of
the most instant successes in Australian
letters, was allowed to go out of print after
the one small edition. Thereafter a regular
flow of two books per month is promised.
But it is to be hoped for the sake of Aus-
tralian writers —for the sake, too, of Aus-
tralian knowledge of Australian subjects—
that the Endeavour Press will be encouraged
by public appreciation to speed up its
activities.
Uncle Sam’s New President.
Writing from the U.S.A., Frank A. Russell
sends The Bulletin this pen-picture of the
new President, who took the oath of office
last Saturday:—
Franklin Delano Roosevelt is to be next
President of the U.S.A. because Hoover
bored the American people by prophesying
smooth things that failed to come to pass.
The voters turned out the Republicans be-
cause, after they had claimed to have cor-
nered Prosperity, they couldn’t even remem-
ber which corner it was around.
I have seen Roosevelt; I have heard him
speak; I have listened to the same ol<J
promises: I have heard his campaign song,
“Happy Days Are Here Again,” and couldn’t
help thinking of the day when the same song
was sung for Jack Lang in the Domain.
Well, what sort of fellow is this Roose-
velt?
He’s a smiling, wliite-toothed showman,
with a professional charm that gets the
people and causes women to call him a
darling. He’s as general in his glitteralities
as Alfred Deakin at his most eloquent. He
sidesteps real issues like a born politician,
but does the popular thing with a flashing
grin that sweeps people off their feet. In
practical politics he is governed by a machine
as cunning and as ruthless as any the
despised Republicans ever devised; but in
actualities, meaning real remedies for exist-
ing ills, he is as amateurish as a curate. I
have heard him make suggestions for reliev-
ing unemployment, for instance, that would
have taken the treasures of Ind to perform.
But they sounded great. His scheme for
afforestation was devised to put a million
men to work planting trees throughout the
U.S.A. It took real timber men to blow it
up. They pointed out cruelly that it would
cost 10 billion dollars a year and would
need such imports of young trees as to
denude other countries of available supplies.
Every practical man laughed, but it’s not
practical men who elect Presidents. The
people yelled their heads off for the miracle-
man.
Another bright promise he is now being
asked to perform, even though he’s not yet
in office, is one to engage in gainful employ-
ment the whole of the surplus labor of the
U.S.A. This, he declared, in a letter pub-
lished by the Unemployed Committee, should
be the first duty of a Chief Executive.
Rough, rude accountants have worked out
a sum in arithmetic, and the execution of
this little promise will cost 10 billion dollars
a year and cumber the U.S.A. with public
works sufficient for three generations of a
nation of rebuilders. Concurrently. with
these two sidelines he has engaged himself
to snip a billion dollars out of the annual
Budget. A promising fellow, this Franklin
Delano Roosevelt! An amateur who is going
to learn his job as he goes along.
«
The Gun Runners.
The news that the U.S. Congress has re-
jected the ex-President’s proposal to follow
Britain’s lead and place an embargo on the
export of arms and other war munitions
to alien belligerents is a matter for deep
regret. But it is not a matter for great
surprise. The ammunition interests are
among the most powerful, financially and
politically, in Uncle’s country, as they
showed in the earlier days of the Great
War, when they supplied the Allies with huge
quantities of munitions in the face of a
strong and aggressive pro-German minority.
With them were joined then, as they are
now, the controllers of the even more
powerful and wealthy steel interests.
There can be little doubt that France
and Belgium, both specialists in the large-
scale production of artillery and small
arms, will also decline to fall in with the
British view. Britain herself is taking up
the question of an embargo somewhat late
in the day. Authenticated statements in
the House of Commons show that large
quantities of ammunition are being turned
out under contract by the great British
ammunition combine for both China and
Japan. These contracts have considerable
periods to run, and the British decision
is not to affect existing undertakings.
There is no international law against the
trade, though individual nations may legis-
late against it; and any national sentiment
which may exist against it is easily over-
come by shipment of the goods to a con-
venient neutral country. Siam is being
freely mentioned now in this connection.
The only remedy for an aggrieved Power
is to seize the goods in transit, and drastic
action of the kind where neutral carriers
are concerned involves trouble which only
the most powerful belligerents would care
to face. In the present chaotic circum-
stances, therefore, the tangible result that
would appear to follow on Britain’s em-
bargo is the loss of a very remunerative
line of business, the orders being switched
to American and Continental firms.
+ .
Proposed Sanctuary for Tax-Dodgers.
A Sydney gentleman, Mr. A. C. Godhard,
has a plan for introducing well-to-do
immigrants from Britain and British pos-
sessions—Americans, too, if the prospect
pleases them—by making Canberra a tax-
free refuge for such persons: “the Channel
Islands of the Commonwealth.”
No doubt it could be done. Under sec-
tion 52 of the Constitution Act the national
Parliament has “exclusive power to make
laws with respect to the seat of Govern-
ment of the Commonwealth”; and the ex-
clusive power extends to taxation in the
Federal Territories, although clause 2 of
section 51 forbids Parliament, in imposing
taxation, to “discriminate between States or
parts of States.” The question is whether
it is worth doing. Mr. Godhard is not
alone in thinking that it is. Already an
organisation, with an executive on which
there is an imposing array of knights and
members of Parliament, has been formed
“to develop the plan,” and it is sure to
gain recruits as the impression grows that
there may be a full-time job in it for
the right man, together with pickings for
some of his friends. «
As if a power of mischief had not been
done in other years by issuing tax-free
bonds and stocks, it is proposed to let
“every non-resident of Australia” who will
invest not less than £5OOO and not more
than £lOO,OOO in 4 p.c. Commonwealth bonds
settle in Canberra and enjoy perfect free-
dom from direct taxes; the bonds are
even to be “exempt from probate duties.”
It is suggested that the proceeds of these
bonds “might be used for the liquidation of
Australian indebtedness abroad.” They
might and they might not. In any case, if
it. can be supposed that any body of
English-speaking people would respond to
the invitation, they would become a privi-
leged caste and be- subjected to the ill-
feeling which all privileged castes excite.
The tax-dodgers who settled in the Channel
Islands were regarded with no respect by
the Britons whose burdens they refused to
share, and it is easy to imagine what Aus-
tralians would think and say of strangers
with an income of from £2OO to £4OOO a
year who claimed the protection of our
laws and of our army, navy and air force
without paying a cent towards their main-
tenance.
And other difficulties would arise. The
civil servants of Canberra would certainly
demand to be placed in the same position
as the immigrants. As it is, they are
exempt from the State income and unem-
ployed-relief taxes, and they have put in a
claim for the restoration of the so-called
Canberra allowance. It would be a short
step from that to demanding exemption
from Federal income tax, and their
influence over the Canberra politicians is
such that the Government might give way.
That point gained, the Commonwealth
employees in the States would be embold-
ened to demand a corresponding concession;
they already pay less unemployed-relief tax
than private citizens who are not organised
and have no block vote to be feared. And
again it is no certainty that the Common-
wealth Government would not yield. Wil-
liam Brooks, M.L.C., asserts that the God-
hard plan would “lighten taxation for the
whole people”—he does not explain how—
“and they would lose nothing by it.” The
chances are that they would lose a great
deal more than they would gain.
Australia offers attractions to retired British
seamen, soldiers, civil servants, planters and
the like, and they are welcome immigrants
when they come to share our fortunes, good
or bad. But they would be decidedly un-
welcome if they settled at Canberra as a
class apart. They would veiy likely arrive
in increasing numbers if they were assured
of fair treatment from the politicians and
tax-gatherers. But while one party smites
citizens and sojourners alike with a plague
of taxes, merciless in their incidence, and
the other party proposes, in addition, to
“nationalise” the banks in which they would
have their balances and to “socialise
credit,” they will not come at all.
«
Tung Oil in Australia.
From G. de Vahl Davis, B.Sc.Agr.:—
The. recent letter from Frank Cotton on
the future ofi the tung-nut oil industry in
Australia was of interest to me as a direc-
tor of one of the companies endeavoring to
establish this industry, believing that it
offers a desirable addition to the range of
Australian-grown primary products. It is
a gloomy picture that Mr. Cotton painted,
but it is not in accordance with locally
ascertainable facts. A pamphlet recently
issued by the N. S. Wales Department of
Agriculture gives the yield of nuts on a full-
bearing tree as 50-701 b. An average of 601 b.
would bring Mr. Cotton’s “commercial over-
seas value” figure to 15s. Moreover, in the
case of the co. in which I am interested,
the trees are sold to shareholders and the
profits of the refinery would go back, pro
rata, to the men who grow the nuts. Allow-
ing 50 per cent, of the gross return to
cover all costs —and that is exaggerated—
the return to the grower would be 7s. 6d.
per tree.
The argument that orange trees are more
profitable is hardly cogent—no one suggests
that our citriculturists should uproot their
orange groves and replant the areas with
tung trees. In its present condition our
citrus industry is over-supplying the market,
but there is still much land, of a nature
not over-well suited to citrus, that would
grow the tung to perfection.
Mr. Cotton’s policy of damning a new
primary industry on bare —and inaccurate
—mathematical data, without permitting a
practical commercial field-trial, might well
hasten the possibility which he adumbrates
the inclusion of our Commonwealth in an
Oriental empire. ~, ...
I am sure that Mr. A. R. Penfold, of the
Sydney Technological Museum, will pardon
me if I mention him as one who has the
vision to recommend that every effort be
made to establish this industry, not only
for the export market, but also for the
large and rapidly-growing home market..
Finally, the attention which is being
devoted to the tung-tree in those of the
United States of America fortunate enough
to possess a climate approaching ours for
suitability does not suggest that the com-
mercial cultivation of this crop is only pos-
sible under Eastern economic conditions.


In Craven “A” I always find what I expect
... that extra touch of Quality
CRAVEN “A”
CORK-TIPPED VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR THROAT
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6 50 in flat tins, 3/9 100 for 7/6
MADE BY CARRERAS LIMITED, 144 Years’ Reputation for Quality
■n
POLITICAL
POINTS
Franklin Roosevelt moves into the White
House at a gloomy hour. In eight months
the Federal Government has piled up a
deficit of 1360 million dollars; in 12 months
the national debt has increased by 2809
million dollars to 20,934 million dollars.
Great bond houses are closing their doors,
and foreign capital is in full flight, while
so much gold has been taken out of the
banks by panic-stricken depositors that
withdrawals are being rationed in many
States and refused, for a time, in some. If
the new President can get his country out
of the mess his fame will outlast the other
Roosevelt’s and rival Lincoln’s.
A fire in the Reichstag, for which Com-
munists are blamed, has led to a Nazi coup
d’etat, followed by a 'success at the polls.
Thousands of Reds have been arrested;
thousands of others have fled to foreign
countries; Communist meetings have been
prohibited and Communist newspapers sup-
pressed. The ban lias been extended to
Socialist meetings and journals, and German
Jews fear another St. Bartholomew’s Day. A
British correspondent on the spot reports
that “criminal lunatics” are in control of
Germany; others are positive that civil war
will be a consequence of this explosion of
the pent-up forces of nationalism; others
again predict an attack on Poland. Perhaps,
after all, it would have been wiser to let
the Hohenzollerns return.
The guileless Communist is at work among
the Mallee cockies of Victoria. Those on
the edge have had a tough time, and in some
parts have linked up in Defence Leagues to
protect their' property against what they
believe to be unscrupulous creditors. F'rom
this the guileless Communist has judged they
would make good raw material, wherefore he
has flooded them with literature urging them
to “enrol now” in “a Farmers’ Unity
League” and “become a unit in the struggle
of the exploited against the exploiter.” But
the Mallee cocky remembers what has hap-
pened to the farmers in Russia ; and lie
reckons it would be just as horrible to lose
his own farm that way as any other:
Simon, the Foreign Secretary, announced
the other day that his Government would
not allow arms to be sent to the combatants
in Jeliol. That matters little, for Japan
doesn’t need them, and China can get them
from other quarters; but \ sentence uttered
in reply to Lansbury, the stupid Labor
“According to a British M.P., a factory was
making armaments for Japan in one room and for
China in another. Buyers for the combatants arrived
together and issued a joint ultimatum that prices
must be reduced.”
“Honorable munition-maker, your prices
are ruinous. Twenty per cent, discount
for cash or we stop the war.”
leader—who, being a pacifist, wants some-
thing violent to be done to Japan—matters
a great deal: “In no circumstances will this
country be a party to the struggle.” Aus-
tralia might have got in first with this very
necessary declaration, but its Lyons Gov-
ernment is always satisfied to be an echo.
The struggle for control of the N.S.W.
Langsters was transferred last week from
the metropolitan conference, which petered
out suddenly, to the executive meeting.
McNamara, who leads the socialisation
group, had things all his own way at the
conference, but liis rival, Graves, of the
inner group, was in the ascendant at the
executive meeting, though Comrades Maloney
and McSween stood up valiantly for
McNamara. Another conference, in which the
whole crowd are concerned, is to be held
shortly, and McNamara and his socialists are
in danger of being expelled. The young man
is Lang’s brother-in-law, but that won’t save
him if he persists in opposing the Lang dic-
tatorship, with Graves pulling the strings.
When conscription was about to be put to
the vote Jack Scaddan, then Labor Premier
of Westralia, said he would stick to the old
party, whatever happened. A few weeks
later he was out of the old party, having
declared himself a conscriptionist. Since
then he has figured in election campaigns as
“In spite of warnings as to the consequences, Westralian Premier Mitchell says he is determined
to secede."
“I’m sick of being cooped up here with you chaps. I want me freedom; and lit
have it!”
Independent Labor, Country party, Nation-
alist and U.A.P. On the separation issue
Scaddan )s running true to form. Boiled
down, the questions to be submitted are: —
(1) Are you in favor of Westralia withdrawing
from" the Commonwealth?
, (2) Are you in favor of a convention representing
each of the States being summoned, to. propose
alterations in the Commonwealth Constitution?
Jack says he will vote for both.
An election report from South Aus. is that
a dozen Sydney Langsters, headed by Democ-
racy’s Great Leader, are going across to
help “the Lang Labor party.” Their trouble
will be to find it.
In framing its interest-reduction pro-
posals, the Maoriland Government was care-
ful to remember that the State is the big-
gest mortgagee. There’s nothing at all for
woolgrowers or cowfarmers, but interest paid
by the Government on the £115,000,000 or
so of internal debt, mostly issued at rates
ranging from 54 p.c. to 44 p.c., is to be
reduced to a flat" 4 p.c. Conversion will prO-
bably be compulsory, and it doesn’t sweeten
the feelings of holders of the scrip to remem-
ber that they were compelled to subscribe
to the war loans. The Associated Banks,
having been indemnified against all exchange
risks, have agreed to make a 1 p.c. cut m
the overdraft rate.
According to Playford, M.L.C., the Met-
ropolitan Milk Board, a Lang creation,
is getting more money for its exertions than
the N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., of
which he is chairman. Asked to state the
actual cost of receiving, pasteurising and
delivering milk to vendors,, the F. F. and
I. Co., one of the distributing concerns, de-
clared it at a gallon in sworn evidence.
The board (or Soviet) nevertheless fobbed
it off with 4d. a gallon, and treated the
retailers in the same spirit. The return to
the farmer, on the other hand, was fixed at
10§d. a gallon—when his milk is actually-
bought—“though milk fo'r butter is worth
only 3d. and for cheese 34d.” In the result
milk is 7d. a quart in Sydney—an outrage-
ous price and a cruel burden on poor people
-—-and Playford’s concern is, as he says,
“carrying on business to pay award wages
and taxes.”
Recognition of Red Russia, which was
going to do' such wonderful things for Brit-
ish trade, has been a failure in that respect
as well as others. Runciman, President of
the Board of Trade, tells the dismal story.
During the ten years 1922-32 Russian im-
ports into the U.K. were valued at
£136,500,000 more than U.K. exports to
Russia. During the same period the U.S.A.
sold to the Soviets 519,000,000 dollars’ worth
of goods more than it bought from them.
And the U.S.A. has never recognised the
Red push and —unlike Britain—hasn’t had
to spend a mint of money in countering the
activities of Communist seditionists dis-
guised as traders.
The Queensland Industrial Court threw
out the application of the employers for a
reduction of the State basic wage from £3
14s. a week to £3 4s. The president, Webb,
J., said he was prepared to reduce wages if
hours were reduced at the same time. This,
he argued, would help to relieve unemploy-
ment; mere reduction of wages would not.
Tiely Roos, who. when he was left out of
the S’African Coalition Government, threat-
ened to form a new party, now says he
won't. He has withdrawn from the, Dutch
remnant which will sit as the Opposition.
These proceedings deepen the impression
that Tiely is Billy Hughes in disguise.
At his last meeting as member of the
Sydney Water Board, Tom ’Enley, M.L.A.,
said he felt like a caged bird with the door
open. Perhaps so; still, the downy old bird’s
reward foT 32 years’ service was to have his
wings clipped. In his rough way ’Enley
represented ratepayers faithfully on a con-
cern which has borrowed and spent reck-
lessly and taxes excessively; but somehow
Sydney has no use for the kind of reformer
who tries to get it twenty shillings’ worth
of service for every pound spent. It pre-
fers the good feller, who will shut his eyes
to the shortcomings of other good fellers.
Strawberry has been doing her duty so
nobly that supplies of Australian and M.L.
butter have piled up in London and the
price has tumbled. A tip was sent to the
M.L. Government that the best way to
steady the price was to lay off exporting for
a bit, and to get Australia to do the same.
The Dairy Pro'duce Board hysterically de-
clared that restriction was unthinkable, and
called on the Government to reduce the Cus-
toms duties on British manufactures by 15
p.c., though 98 p.c. of farmers’ requisites
come in duty-free. Forbes has adopted the
friendly hint from London, and has asked
Australia to co-operate in soft-pedalling
exports. If milk prices in places, like Syd-
ney weren’t so' fantastically high, there
would be a bigger home market for Straw-
berry’s juice, and less risk of sending Tooley-
street too much- butter.
Australia’s old friend lan Hamilton has
a knack of throwing light on a subject in a
sentence or two. In a rectorial 1 address at
Edinburgh Uni. he said, “A bloody war
lias begun, which might not have occurred
if the Japanese army had not been regarded
as a prisoner in the dock.” That’s just it;
and the fussy British pacifists who helped
to place the Japanese army—which is the
nation —in such a position have done no
service to Britain or to Australia. Old
John Chinaman, patient, hardworking,
scrupulously honest, holds the world’s. re-
spect and liking. But the. Communised
Chinese, the war lords and their soldiery, the
bandits and pirates are a pernicious lot of
blighters, and the bustling and arrogant
young men trained in U.S. universities must
be almost as unpleasant. These, it. should be
remembered (though it is conveniently for-
gotten), are mainly the Chinese with whom
Japan has had to deal.
Queensland’s Government is preparing to
fill the vacancy in the London office, and
Percy Pease, Minister of Lands, is first
favorite. If he goes, he will probably be
succeeded, by George Pollock, at present
Speaker. Pollock’s health kept him out oi
the Forgan Smith Cabinet when it was
formed, but he is la new man nowadays. Both
he and Pease hold safe Labor seats, in Her-
bert and Gregory respectively, so there is
not likely to be any by-election surprise.
Caterers in pornography have found a
new channel of trade —-the gramophone
record. Quantities of these have entered
Victoria and protests are beginning to be
raised. The Act, as usual, isn’t comprehen-
sive enough. It covers certain specific
articles, such as books, pictures, pamphlets
and posters, but gramophone discs are not
mentioned.
The slogan of the socialisation group of
the N. S. Wales A.L.P. seems to be “Well
no be Lang the noo.”
It was reserved for Dr. R. W. Cilento,
the senior Commonwealth medical officer in
Queensland, to deliver the 'annual Anne
Mackenzie oration at Canberra, and he made
a striking job of it. Among other things, he
said that the conquest of tropical disease
had been achieved in these parts, and because
of it “Australia stands at the threshold of
events as revolutionary as those which trans-
ferred the seat of world interests from the
Mediterranean to the Atlantic” —
In Australia we have a: greater population, purely
white, living in the tropics than any other country
in the world can boast. And these white men and
women of the second and third generations live
here without any loss of mentality, physique or
fertility.
Dr. Cilento was too modest to mention the
part he himself has played in making the
North a home fit for White Australians:
but it has been honorable and Will be
remembered.
E. A. Thomas, chairman of the State
Wheat Board, in reply:—
It is true that the Queensland Government offered
3s. 6-Jd. a bushel for Queensland wheat, but the
Commonwealth bounty, intended to benefit the growers
as in the other States, was included in the 3s. 6id.
The millers were to get the wheat for 3s. 2d. ; the
4ld. was to be taken out of one of the grower’s
pockets and put into another. It is at least question-
able whether the Commonwealth bounty could be
legally paid in that way. The board’s contention
all along has been that it should be considered
apart from any dealings with the millers.
Meantime the wheat, or most of it, remains
unsold, and the farmers are the sufferers.
Queensland’s - Labor Government has let
fly at another section of its faithful fol-
lowers, the State “servants.” Through their
unions they demanded a five-day week.
Forgan Smith bluntly replied that they could
“And I thought old Foggy hadn’t a kick
in him!”
not have it, adding acidly that the public
offices should be open on all days on which
people are accustomed to do business. Bitter
protests from union officials have followed
this announcement, and references to in-
gratitude and serpents’ teeth are rife.
This Queensland wheat wrangle illustrates
in one muddled affair two bad. features of
Australian Government policy—(l) the
State fad for appointing boards to “control”
all manner of commodities, from chooks to
canary seed, and (2) the Federal fad for
handing over huge slabs of Commonwealth
revenue to State authorities for expenditure
at their own sweet will. This was done, with
calamitous results, in the case of the Fed-
eral-aid roads; and now we see a small
concern, with headquarters at Toowoomba
or thereabouts, arguing with a State Gov-
ernment about the distribution of money
collected from the taypayers in all six States.
It is utterly wrong; and it makes the
national authority look cheap.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Waiwera”: The teacher at our M.L.
school had instructed all pupils to bring
their birth-certificates on the following day,
after carefully explaining to each what a
GOLDEN MEMORIES.
YOUNG ACTOR: “What d’you reckon the best line you’ve ever had in a play?”
OLD HAM : “Ah. my boy, once in Shakspeare I delivered that glorious line, ‘Prepare
my bier!’”
birth certificate was. The next morning I
it young Rangi sprinting homewards,
"Have you got a holiday?” I asked. “No
prurry fear,” he panted; “I forket my excuse
for peen porn.” ‘
* , ; * * *
“f\akli”: Two men who tried to smuggle
parrots—-an Amazon and an African—off the
Blue Funneller Nestor at Melbourne
Docks had cause to deplore the spread of
education amongst the lower orders of the
ammal world. As they walked down the
gangway one. of them was observed by a
customs official to be frenziedly crying
“Help!” As he appeai'ed to be in no imme-
diate need of assistance —in fact, was out-
wardly quite calni—the officer’s suspicions
were aroused. Closer inspection revealed
that the demands for succor were coming
from inside his shirt.
* * * *
“Mells”: The disclosure that English peer-
ages could be bought by contributions to
party funds (B. 1/3/33) hasn’t tended to
make the House of Lords a more respected
institution. But isn’t there something to
give it a woi-se jar in the recent revelation
that a member who has been imprisoned for
fraud can (if he lias the effrontery) return
and take his seat on those august benches,
and resume his participation in such law-
making as is left to the Upper Chamber?
In any elective body in the Empire a man
convicted and sentenced on a serious charge
would forfeit his seat ipso facto. He might
be returned once more, of course, after he
had served his time, but he would have to
find constituents. It seems" that there
is no machinery for getting rid of a peer,
however ignoble liis offence. It’s an amaz-
ing situation.
* * * *
“Nick, Jnr.”: Walking home with the
milkman would mean a rather long hike for
Mt. Isa (N.Q.) residents. Bottled pasteur-
ised milk is sold there at sd. per
pint, being brought by train close
on 700 miles from Ingham, north
of Townsville. The price is cer-
tainly moderate, considering that
local ice costs o'ne shilling per 71b.
block, southern beer the same for
a 12oz. pot, and three shillings for
a bottled article.
* !> :1:
“Centurion”: Most people asso-
ciate corsets for males with the
days of the tight-waisted bucks of
the Regency, but a recent adver-
tisement in “S. M. Herald” sug-
gests that there is still some de-
mand for them under the new
name Of “figure-correctors.” As a
matter of fact they have never
been quite discarded in the regular
army, officers of hussars and rifle
regiments being the principal cul-
prits. The tunics in these regi-
ments are not belted, the sword
belt being worn underneath, so a
globular waist silhouette is a thing
to be avoided. Hence the stays.
The same disability applies to the
“other ranks,” especially in the
hussars. Here the same effect is
—or was —obtained by a broad bandage of
calico wound round and round the waist-
line. The ranker, having no batman, is com-
pelled to call in the assistance of a mate to
wind him into his figure-corrector.
*!' * * *
“Battery Point”: The Carinthia, the
latest Cunard tourist ship in these waters,
didn’t bring the usual cohort of pork and
other millionaires. “Pop’s stayed back
home,” one girl gurgled, “watching for some
of his frozen assets to thaw; and I guess
most of ’em are still pretty hard. But pop
isn’t like some of ’em,” she added. “Half
the millionaires we knew had it all on paper
—most made in the great boom of just a few
years ago. My pop had made a hard little
bit long before that. So he hasn’t had the
terrible eye-strain of most of ’em. Eye-
strain? Yes, watching so hard for pros-
perity to come back round the corner. That’s
what hundreds of thousands of our folks
had been living on for two years. Every-
body told everybody else that things were
getting a wdiole heap better, and real pros-
perfty was just round the corner. But most
times all they met round the corner wars a
worse blizzard than they had just buttoned
up against. At last—that was about the
middle of ’thirty-two—most of ’em gave up
looking. Since then, why, everybody talks
depression; you don’t talk about' what
you’ve made any more, you talk about what
you’ve lost. I don’t know a great deal ’bout
how you people have been faring, but I don’t
see hard times sittin’ on your faces like it
does back home.” It all fortifies wdiat an
American of the Central States wrote in
January to a Sydney law-firm which owed
him something on a legacy left him by a
relation. “Don’t remit till I tell you to/
he said. “We had two banks in my town
and they are both closed, so if you sent the
money I’d have no safe place to put it.”
* * *
“Nordic”: One of Galswoi-thy’s theories
was that in a conquering or dominant race
the male is always the stronger in character;
in a race that lias gone under or been
absorbed in a later civilisation the boot is
on the other leg. Galsworthy found enough
evidence to satisfy himself that the female
is the stronger of the two sexes among the
Celtic population of England—mostly to be
found in Wales and Cornwall and to a lesser
IF IT WAS ALL THE SAME TO HIM.
THE SPIRITUAL MALE: “Do you believe in the transmigration of souls?”
THE MATERIAL FEMALE: “I’d rather have ’em fried!”
extent in Devon and Somerset. There may
be something in it; probably woman was
always a better resister, passive or other-
wise, than man, and centuries of resistance
may have developed that quality of endur-
ance, But where else is one to look for con-
quered or submerged races nowadays? Not
in Ireland, certainly; Greece or Poland might
have offered a field once, but hardly to-day.
I wonder if among the Armenians or the
Maoris or the hairy Ainus of Japan any
evidence could be found to bear out Gals-
worthy’s theory.
«*• * *
“Diego Valdez” : The treasure referred to
by “0. Coral” (B. l/3/’33) was probably
that found by the Jardines, of Somerset, in
Albany Pass. It was not on the Barrier
but on an inner reef. It consisted of silver
dollars, many of which were cemented to-
gether, and there was evidence that the coral
covered more. If the treasure came, as is
generally supposed, from old Spanish ships
it would have been covered long ago by the
fast-growing coral. It is much mo’re pro-
bable that the money sank with one of the
many Chinese coolie ships returning from
Chili and Peru with repatriated laborers,
all of whom were paid in the old Spanish
silver which was currency long after the
South American republics had shaken off
Spanish rule. Many of these ships used
Torres Straif as a short cut. Silver dollars
used to be found among the natives of
Rossel Island in the extreme west of the
Louisades; native legend says a Chinese
coolie ship was wrecked there.
“Y'acko” : The circle of stones found near
tin* coast between Perth and Geraldton (B.
8/2/33) may have been the work of Dutch
sailors, but not necessarily of the survivors
of the Vergulde Draeck (B. 8/2/’33). By
the way, Collingridge gives the date of the
wreck of the vessel as 1656, not 1649. He
adds that seven weeks later, as soon as the
ship’s boat reached Batavia, the Witte
Valck and Goede Hoop left to search the
coast of Australia for the survivors of the
Vergulde Draeck. Eleven of the boat crew
of the Goede Hoop were either drowned ox-
killed by the blacks. In 1658 the Waeckende
Boey and the Emeloort undertook the same
mission unsuccessfully. Portions of boxes,
barrels, etc., were collected, and a circle
formed by upright planks was observed, but
if any significance was found in these it is
not mentioned by the historian.
*
“Free Companion” : If the Sino-Japanese
war benefits no one else, the ancient and
dishonorable company of soldiers of for-
tune should get a few crumbs. The cabled
news that Colonel Sutton, once of the Brit-
ish Army, has returned to China, allegedly
as a war correspondent, is_ encouraging in
this respect. During the civil wars of the
last ten years in China Sutton rose to fame
and fortune as adviser to one of the
factions. Time was when British soldiers
were highly valued in outside wars; the
Free Companions of Sir John Audley and
others made a great name for themselves,
and there were Scottish soldiers who rose
to rank and fame in Russia. Austria.
Germany and France, while in later days
the Irish were no less prominent. Dugald
Dalgetty still walks the earth, unchanged
under his skin by all the modern methods
of warfare, which are, after all, o'nly vari-
ants of the old ones.
* * * *
“Whitehall”: The late Fred Johns's
“Who’s Who in Australia” should do as
well, relatively, as similar British and
American compilations in the hands of the
powerful Victorian publishing house which
has bought it from the Johns estate. The
Mussolinis of the medical profession handi-
capped Johns by saying it was unethical for
doctors to allow their names to appear in his
work, despite the fact that many a front-rank
doctor in Australia as well as Britain has
contributed details of his career to the
British “Who’s Who.” Douglas Sladen met
with similar opposition when he started the
original “Who’s Who” in London nearly 40
years ago, and if he hadn’t overcome it the
venture would have died stillborn. Sladen
told me once that editing a “Who’s Who” in
an efficient manner was one of the most try-
ing jobs he knew. It is hard to get. the right
people in, and it is harder to keep the wrong
ones out. Other difficulties consist in per-
suading the vain to keep their autobio-
graphies within reasonable limits, and in see-
ing that each item is up-to-date. It does
infinite harm, for example, to go on present-
ing Brown as managing director of a com-
pany which has long since burst with an evil
odor, or Smith as member of a club from
which he was required to resign in the dis-
tant past.
“H. Erald” : Melbourne may have a coat
of arms that is “illegal, as well as being
shockingly bad heraldry,” but not London
(B. 8/2/33). London’s coat of arms is
perfectly in order and of respectable anti-
quity, but quite recently it adopted a crest,
which has not been registered. The purists
in heraldry are doubtful whether any city
is entitled to a crest at any time. This
emblem derives from the vertical fan-shaped
guard placed on a knight’s helmet, and a
corporate body cannot wear a helmet. There
have been different rulings in England and
Scotland, but no English university or col-
lege has ever been granted a crest, though
most of them have recognised coats of arms.
$ ❖ * ❖
“D.”: There is a well-known type of nit-
wit —usually a female —with a craze for osten-
tatiously and self-consciously lighting cigar-
ettes on inappropriate occasions. Just
before driving off at golf, for example. The
golfing offender is nearly always elderly and
hard-faced. Many flappers make a parade
of lighting up before they press the self-
starters of their cars; and I have actually
seen them, in their hunger for public atten-
tion, get cigarettes going while crossing
crowded beaches to' the surf. The explana-
tion of this silly behavior is that in Aus-
tralia it is still considered a little odd for
women to smoke in public. Surprisingly few
men smoke while playing outdoor games,
and I was proportionately amazed wdiile
walking past a seaside ground near Sydney
on a recent Sunday to see one of the open-
ing batsmen set fire to a gasper before talcing
strike. I wasn’t surprised when he went
out third ball to an exceptionally feeble
stroke. He was the first man I have ever
seen try to smoke while batting, and I’m
satisfied the feat is impossible, though, no
doubt, it has been attempted by the flash
before, and will be again. Golf is the one
and only field game in which a player has
some excuse for smoking while in action,
but even in that slow and ruminative pas-
time the topnotchers refrain in nine cases
out of ten.
* ••!: *
“Claypole”: “If a burglar knew a burg-
lary was going to be committed and didn’t
tell the police, would he be guilty of the
burglary?” asked a learned counsel in a
prosecution for fraud at Sydney the other
day. Probably the parallel he outlined
hadn’t a very close application to the case
in hand, but the general question can hardly
be answered with a sweeping negative. The
reticent burglar might be held an accessory
before the act; it would, depend on the view
of the Judge and jury. It was Bill Sikes
Who murdered Nancy in “Oliver Twist,” and
William would undoubtedly have been hanged
therefor if he hadn’t anticipated the hang-
man ; but Fagin finished on the gallows for
bis share in the business. And Dickens w T as
generally pretty sound in bis buy.
MARCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The month of March once more, and memo-
ries waken
Of gloomy Lents and glowing Eastertides;
And of precautions Csesar might have takeu
(And disregarded) on those fatal Ides,
With view to saving his Imperial bacon
From the attentions of tyrannicides.
But, days like these, a minstrel lacks the
starch
To pen a really moving ode to March.
Those Old-World bards trod tracks we may
not follow,
Who hailed you as the harbinger of
Spring,
With “daffodils that come before the
swallow”
And winds forecasting Winter on the wing ;
With green’s first tender gleam on heath
and hollow,
Hillside and glen—and all that sort of
thing.
You come to us no buds or shoots to sprout;
Your job is just to usher Summer out.
From calendars and almanacs I gather
Your mere arrival means his bolt is shot.
Official fiction ! Likewise blatant blather
And utterly unmitigated rot!
You still can put and keep us in a lather,
Morn, noon or eve. I doubt the foaming
pot
Was ever drained to satisfy a parch
With more supreme contentment than in
March.
Fierce Winter left our gentle Kendall
glummer;
He found September with her. yellow crest
’Mong all the months the welcomest new-
comer,
With charms and lures denied to all the
rest.
For me, when summertime has been a
hummer,
I own I like the finish of it best.
Then here’s a greeting, March —and still
more glad
I’ll be to see the back of you, my lad.
On with you! And, in frigid lands and
torrid
Alike, remember your proverbial role:
To come with roughness leonine and horrid,
Then like a lamb away to caracole,
With all the brass extracted from your
forehead
And all the iron deleted from your soul,
From Marble Bar to London’s Marble Arch,
There’s few, I fancy, would detain you,
March.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Pawang”: A fisherman at one of Mel-
bourne’s seaside resorts who takes tourists
out at week-ends and drink in at other
times burst into the bar of the local
pub shouting “Snake in the aviary!” He
was calmed and put to sleep, and it wasn’t
till half an hour later that a maid happened
to glance in passing at the cage where the
landlady kept a choice collection of rare
birds. There was a large snake inside it
and half the rare birds were inside the
snake.
♦ * ❖ ❖
“Rokko”: “Good-morning, lady. Will yer
buy a trifle to help a man with a wife and
seven children?” said the vendor of tape,
pins and cottons at my neighbor’s back door.
“But you told me a month ago you weren’t
married,” said the lady, who had moved in
only the week before. “You came to my
house up Blank-street. Don’t you remem-
ber?” “Too right, lady,” w’as the reply.
“Since then I married the lady as keeps
the shop I get these things from. “What?
With seven children?” asked the incredulous
householder. “Four of her own,” said the
tape-seller sadly. “And we’ve taken three
me brother left when he died last year.” We
doubted the story of such wholesale adop-
tion, but inquiry proved it perfectly true.
Since then the neighborhood keeps up a per-
sistent drive for old clothes for the much-
mixed family.
* * * *
“Singemoine”: The Shadow Showman who
referred (B. l/3/’33) to the dislike of
Americans for their once-beloved Paris “since
the French repudiated their debts” touched
on a truth which should be noted by sup-
THE GREAT MIDDLE CLASS.
CANDIDATE: “There is the class that works with its head, and there is the class that
works with its hands.”
LISTENER: “And you look like one of the middle class that works with its blinkin’
stummick!”
porters (if there are any left) of the Lang
Plan. Low, the former Bulletin cartoonist,
had a drawing in London “Standard” a few
months ago showing an American rent-col-
lector leaving the home of Mrs. John Bull
(depicted as sitting glumly on the doorstep
with a receipt), and getting a bucket of ro-
pudiatory slops on his head from Madame
France. Yet Britain’s honesty has paid,
Until recently about 2,000,000 Americans
visited France each year, and they poured
out dollars like water in the restaurants,
hotels and shops of Paris. At the present
time an enormous number are pouring out
their dollars in England, and particularly in
the restaurants, hotels and luxury shops of
the West End of London. For many years
the American trade, taking it by and large,
was worth over £100,000,000 per annum to
France. Of course, the devaluated £ is
doing its share in bringing Americans to
England, but it is not nearly such a big
factor as the mutual hostility between Ameri-
cans and French in connection with the debts
question. People hate spending money in
countries that they think have bilked them.
* * * *
“Whitehall”: D. G. Stead, the N. S.
Wales fisheries expert, said the other day:—
There is no need to go to Maoriland or America
for big fish. We have them here—plenty of them.
And he went on to talk about the Spanish
mackerel, tunny and kingfish of the islands
off Port Stephens. I first fished off Port
Stephens with the late Herbert Maitland, a
Macquarie-street surgeon who was one of
the founders of a club which was even then
—2O years ago—affiliated with a leading
Catalina game-fishing club. He had all the
necessary equipment; all that was lacking
was the sight or sound of a sizable fish.
The average in these waters is 20-odd
pounds, and I have never heard of one over
50 pounds. Off the coast of Florida they run
to hundreds of pounds. If any Australian
State Government could tell the world, and
prove it, that it had even hundred-pound
game fish waitjng to be caught it would be
worth more in the long run than the dis-
covery of a new goldmine.
* !js * *
“Hamer”: The modest cottage of Henry
Parkes at Faulconbridge, the only home that
he actually owned, has been bought by
“Stonewall” Jackson, M.L.A., and the buyer
has presented a strip of the land to the
Blue Mountains shire as a park so that its
associations may be preserved. The Parkes
family vault is now well-kept, the Govern-
ment grant for that purpose having been
provided as the result of an 11-line par. in
The Bulletin about the weedy neglect into
which the plot had been allowed to fall.
Questions were immediately asked in Parlia-
ment, a public agitation was started, and
the Government of the day took the neces-
sary action. As I was the writer of the
11 linns I remember the circumstances.
* * * #
“Bumpkin”: Huddart Parker’s new luxury
liner Wanganella has, among other things,
a fully-equipped library, in which the novels
of the late Edgar Wallace predominate
soiftewhat. However, they are genuine
volumes. When the Matson liner Mariposa
was in Melbourne I was struck with its
owners’ typically American zeal for culture,
exemplified by an imposing row of works
by Shakspeare, Spenser. Chaucer, Goethe
and others. I eagerly extracted a couple of
volumes. They were dummies.
* * * *
“Minus Haircut”: I have a complaint
against Sydney. It is, in the matter of white
population, either the second or the third
city in the Empire. But it has only three
shops in which you can seek to buy a piece
of music other than the latest Yankee jazz
lyric without being made to understand that
the demand for any sort of music other than
the latest Yankee jazz abomination is so
small that you might have saved your breath.
Shops of the kind that formerly sold music
depend for their living on the sale of (a)
radio sets, (6) theatre-tickets, (c) gramo-
phones, ( d ) gramophone records, (e) house-
hold electrical appliances. This applies to
the three that still manage to maintain some
sort of a stock of instrumental music. There
are publishers (who retail only if you can
sleuth their hidie-holes) with patchy stocks
of reprinted classics, but they conceal them-
selves on upper floors of skyscrapers and
function only during those hours of the day
when fthe common herd wouldn’t be likely
to visit them. I have come to the con-
elusion that if Sydney has any amateur or
professional performers on the pianoforte,
violin, organ or jew’s-harp who didn’t lay in
all the music they needed a great many
years ago, and who are not sufficiently
patient to order what little new music they
may hear at Con. concerts or get wind o‘f
per gramophone and wait three months for
it, they’ve given up a bad job, especially as
they are expected to pay curio prices for
what they do get. I’ve just finished soaking
off the price labels on a pianoforte opera
score published originally at one shilling.
It started at two bob, jumped to three bob
(presumably when the opera was performed
in Sydney), leaped to three-and-six when
some Customs impost put a fraction of a
penny on its value, and finished up grandly
at four bob. I bought it for one-and-six in
a second-hand shop, which, as it hadn’t
more lucrative sidelines, was prepared to
accept 50 per cent, more than published
THE MAN WHO WOULDN’T BE COMFORTED.
MISSUS: “Well, why not try this?—the advertisement says ‘No one need suffer while
your chemist stocks Backache Pills.’”
MISTER: “No; I suppose the suffering starts when you buy the dam’ things.”
price. But even that was ninepence too
much for me, hence the unbarbered condi-
tion of my hair.
* $ * *
“X.S.” : One of the most protracted cases
in Melbourne legal history came suddenly
to an end the other day when counsel for
the defence asked Justice McArthur to enter
judgment by consent for the Nestle Company
without costs, in a claim for £125,000 dam-
ages made by Herbert Walker and Co. The
suit lasted 43 days and the evidence taken
down ran to 923,000 words. On the 35th
day ’Sonah remarked that the costs were
then estimated at £20,000, and he appealed
to the parties to try to settle the issue and
get back to their business.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Plans for the Melbourne Cen-
tenary offensive have been laid down on
general lines. The cele-
brants will go over the
top on October 18.
1934, with the Royal
Agricultural Show.
From then till Febru-
ary, 1935, the various
race meetings will be
regarded as an integral
part of the junketing;
Henley on the Yarra
and other carnivals will
be included. On Nov-
ember 11, 1934, the
Shrine of Remembrance
will be dedicated, and
the centenary games
will fill the torrid
month of January. Ex-
hibitions, science con-
gresses, etc., will occupy
six months, and if a
Royal visitor is avail-
able there will be illu-
minations and other
festivities. When the
Duke of Edinburgh
visited the city a foun-
tain of wine was pro-
vided. The public’s
thirst proved greater
than its reverence; be-
fore the Royal party
arrived the fountain
bad been rushed and, in-
stead of spouting, it
dribbled its contents
away in all directions.
The Cold Tea party is
too strong to allow such
bacchanalian revels this time.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: With all deference to “E.S.S.”
(B. 25/l/’33), weeping willows do come
from Napoleon’s grave (or thereabouts), so
far as S. Aus. is concerned. In its early
days, he was still a vivid memory. Sailing-
ships almost always broke the long voyage
by calling at St. Helena for water, which
gave the simple islanders an opportunity of
unloading souvenir willow-slips on the pas-
sengers. And they have multiplied exceed-
ingly in their new setting.
sj: j{*
“Selma” : A neat getaway was staged by
a just-married pair in a fashionable Sydney
subbub. When the bride appeared in
her travelling array she discovered the usual
white-ribboned car', old slippers and confetti
ready to betray her, and likewise noted
a humble taxi among the vehicles parked
before the house, the cruising driver, finding
fares scarce, having decided to hang round
on the chance of a job. He didn’t expect
the one he got, for the newly-weds suddenly
raced to the gate, tumbled into his ancient
conveyance and were off to the station
before the guests had recovered. A gratified
bridegroom handed out a sum equal to the
taxi-man’s average takings for a couple of
days.
* Sic * *
“Morimoto”: “I am unhappy to-day. I
could have wept but for my Oriental forti-
tude,” said Mr. Matsuoka in an interview
at Geneva after the recent dramatic events.
The remark was a curious example of how
conventions are made. An English diplomat
in similar circumstances would be no more
likely to succumb to tears than a Japanese;
one cannot imagine S. M. Bruce, for
instance, in the same position having to
struggle with a tendency to burst into sobs.
“Oriental fortitude” is a fiction invented by
foreigners to explain the simple fact that
Asiatics don’t feel emotion over the same
things as Westerners do. A Japanese will
announce the death of a wife with a depre-
cating smile, but will show every symptom
of grief over the demise of a male child.
* * * *
“Inkosi”: I fancy “Jeames” errs (B.
l/3/’33) when he says that the “blacks
don’t count” in the matter of appointing a
member of the Royal family as Gov-
ernor-General of the South' African Union.
As in India, the hereditary chiefs of the
native races are intensely loyal to the
Throne, and communities like . the Zulus,
Swazis, Basutos and Baralongs are not to
be lightly disregarded, as anyone who has
experienced their reverence for high station
and breeding will admit. This spirit has
not vanished with the growth of modern
South Africa. With the recrudescence of
Dutch nationalism it has rather intensified,
since the great African rulers still look to
the personal head of the Empire for pro-
tection and the redress of grievances, as they
did in the days when they sent deputations
to Queen Victoria.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A. C. Munson, who Jay Pays on
the Pitzroy (Melb.) Bench, recently returned
from a health trip to “the Islands.” . On
resuming his seat on the Bench he received
the congratulations of the Court and was
about to return thanks when a woman got
up and, on behalf of the prisoners awaiting
trial, added her bouquet to the pile. It was
no doubt with real regret that his Worship
subsequently found himself obliged to sen-
tence the lady to three months.
* * * *
“Soil”: I venture to suggest a labor-
saving device for those police who are dig-
ging up 370 acres of a Victorian farm iD
their search for the body of a missing infant
(B. l/3/’33) —to wit, pigs. Dogs are
not of much use if there is a fair covering
of soil, but the pig has a nose which can
locate any scent at any reasonable depth.
Unfortunately the abilities of our bacon-
provider in this respect are little recognised in
the Commonwealth. In some parts of France
the intelligent animal is in high request for
locating truffles, those flavorsome fungi
which figure so expensively on preten-
tious restaurant menus. A drove of pigs com-
pelled to quarter the ground—having been
kept from food as a preliminary—would soon
solve the Victorian mystery and save the
John Hops much heartbreaking and back-
breaking-work.
BALLADE OF DIFFERING DOCTORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Vic. Police Commissioner Blarney states that when
a motorist under arrest calls his own doctor to deter-
mine his sobriety or otherwise, and the police obtain
a neutral doctor, the testimony is too often directly
at variance.”
Since Father Noah discovered booze,
The product of his vineyard plot,
lhere’ve always been conflicting views
On when a human being has got
To that condition when he’s not
As sober as he ought to be,
Or, in the vulgar parlance, shot—
And even doctors disagree.
In court there’s many a fray ensues.
The ageless trouble’s this, I wot:
There’s no unfailing test to use
By which a beak can cut the knot.
Some take a little, some a lot
Too much. Are either’s wits at sea?
Tot homines , sentcntice quot. •
And even doctors disagree.
So, brother, never fail to choose
When underneath the “blotto” blot
Some gentle who’s
Wise to your constitution, what?
One who’ll to nerves the blame allot
That else might go to eau-de-vie
Or rest upon the stingo pot,
For even doctors disagree.
Sergeant, the charge is ruddy rot,
As I can prove, I’ll guarantee.
Fetch hither Dr. Dash-and-Dot;
• Even physicians disagree.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


L°
m
'^nnsD
i
auonnami
Ik
mm
r
ki
<Tv>^
t
(4^i
mu \\w
7
£2
\
*l/
Intecjritij
is the foundation of success
There is a strength about the texture ... a silken smoothness about
the appearance ... an authentic air about the style ... of Fayrefield
Hats, that wins admiration at first glance. This is the outcome of finest
materials having been moulded honestly to perfection.
Everything a man could wish for in a hat is found, in generous degree, in
hats made by Fayrefield.
Fayrefield Hats
may be had at
better class stores
for 25/- and 30/-.
Ivot /
Y pi
TfcuiluefU&l ~jßcct4_
J V * * *ALWAYf AHEAD"
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Monsignor Bcrnardini, who' succeeds Arch-
bishop Cattaneo as Apostolic Delegate, is just
50. He was Professor of Canon Law in the
Catholic University at Washington (U.S.) ;
latterly he has been attached to the Vatican
staff. In 1917 he showed Archbishop Cat-
taneo the sights of Washington, so the
latter is .staying on in Sydney to return the
compliment.
The enterprising Senator Elliott, of Em-
pire Crusader fame, recently conceived the
idea of obtaining 1 first-hand information as
to how the other man lives. There are esti-
mated to be from 4000 to 5000 men and
youths from Melbourne wandering about the
Murray looking for fruit-fiicking jobs and
the like. Most of them jumped the
rattler to get there, and, dressed in a patched
suit of clothes, Senator Elliott did the same.
After sharing the travellers’ vicissitudes and
their campfires for a couple of weeks he
returned to Melbourne and the garb of com-
merce. According to the newspapers, he
found his new acquaintances full of cama-
raderie. The camaraderie, however, wasn’t
quite unanimous, because the Senator
stopped one with his countenance.
Harold Parkyn Williams, general manager
of the. Australian Broadcasting Commission,
died at Double Bay (Sydney) last week.
Born at Ipswich (Q.) 51 years ago, Wil-
liams had made his mark in journalism be-
fore the invention which was presently to
engross him came along. He was editor
successively of the Bathurst “National Advo-
cate” and “Times”; he founded and ran
the “Land,” and made trips overseas to
international conferences on pastoral and
agricultural problems. His interest in broad-
casting began with its inception, and he had
been at the head of the A.B.C. since it was
founded.
There soon will be no old Cobb and Co.
drivers left; the death of Robert Grover
was*the 35tli among members o'f the Old
Drivers’ Association since their reunion in
1930. Born in Melbourne in 1844, Grover
saw the landing of the first four coaches
from America for use in Victoria. He and
Dick Harris drove the first six-horse coaches
from Albury to Wagga, a section which was
to become an important link in the Sydney-
to-Melbourne mail.
J. Chappie, the new president of the Vic.
Labor party, is a mild-mannered little rail-
wayman with militant ideas. He looks par-
ticularly dangerous in print, and gave many
good citizens a nightmare a couple of years
ago when it was first proposed to link up the
railways union with the Third International.
J. CHAPPLE, new President Vic. Labor
party.
He is practically the sole navigator of the
railwaymen’s case in the present Arbitration
Court inquiry, and was on the recent bank-
ing committee at the Trades Hall which tried
to give Labor a new financial policy, but only
succeeded in producing the old time-honored
nationalisation platitudes.
Inigo Jones, Queensland’s unofficial
weather prophet, made a casual call on the
Earl of Pembroke during that nobleman s
visit to Brisbane, to renew a family acquaint-
ance initiated some 300 years ago. William
Howard, third Earl of Pembroke, remarked
the talent of the sixteenth-century Inigo
Jones, and employed him in the construc-
tion of Wilton House, where the present
Pembroke? eat the crusts that their carpet-
making ventures have secured to them. The
fifteenth Earl greeted the reigning Inigo
with the utmost cordiality.
Lieut.-Col. George Hodges Knox, M.L.A.
for the Upper Yarra (Vic.), is the son of
“Bill” Knox, who was the first secretary
of the Broken Hill Prop, and most of the
other big B. H. cos.,, and later on w T as an
M.L.C. The son got a taste for soldiering
at Scotch College, joined up with the Citizen
Forces, and was in command of the 23rd
Lieut.-Col. G. H. KNOX, Vic. M.L.A.
Battalion at Lone Pine. He is a hard-riding
citizen who at 48 can still swing a vigorous
polo .stick; in the House he is one of the
Young Liberals.
, A note from Frank A. Russell, one of
Melbourne “Herald’s” star writers: —
Quite by accident, during my work here (Holly-
wood, California) for the “Herald,” I was asked
by the Institute for World Affairs to give a lecture
on Australia. Over here they had sneered at our
wild-cat State enterprises and had pitied our bank-
ruptcy. I gave the lecture, talking of our remark-
able economic recovery (and it is very remarkable),
with full marks to Scullin for his handling of the
tariff. As a result I was booked over a big circuit
to repeat the lecture before clubs and political
organisations, and have my time booked till April
on the Pacific Coast. Australia’s example is now
being preached here, even in the churches, and her
spirit of sacrifice applauded.
From California Mr. Russell goes on to
England, and it had already been suggested
from London that he should tell the same
story there.
After a shocking illness (he was a cancer
victim), R. V. Hodgson, for many years
chairman of the N.S.W. Railway Appeals
Board and later of the Transport Appeals
Board, died last week. By trade a barrister,
but by inclination an engineer, his know-
ledge on the two sides specially qualified
him for a job which he did exceptionally
well. He was the builder of probably the
first motor-car ever made in Australia, and
he took a keen interest in his motoring hobby
to the end. He never had a wife.
Knight Elliott Lewis, who has been
twice Premier of the Speck—the first time
was 34 years ago, and that was 13 years
after he entered the Assembly—has retired
at 74 from the Chancellorship of the State
University, which he lias held since 1924.
W. T. J. Stops, who was Vice-Chancellor,
steps into the vacant place, and Robert
Dunbabin, Professor of Classics, becomes
Vice.
J. G. Bayley, Opposition candidate for the
State seat (Wynnum) vacated by the late
W. H. Barnes, went into the House
of Reps, in 1917 when he won the Oxley
(Q.) seat for the Nats, by beating Labor
member J. B. Sharpe. Before that he had
been head of the Charters Towers Higli
School. He kept his seat until ousted by
tlie Labor man, F. M. Baker, at the last
Federal elections. Bayley did much useful
work in Parliament and was Chairman of
Committees and party Whip.
There aye two M.L. claimants for the
honor of being the oldest survivor of the
57th Regiment—the “Diehards” of the
Crimea. Sergeant-Major E. Bezar, of Well-
ington, who recently kept his 95th birthday,
is one; Michael Gill, who at 96 is an
inmate of the Old People's Home at Napier,
is the other. During the Napier earthquake
of two years ago’ the Old People’s Home was
wrecked and Gill was buried in the debris
for two days. In addition to his Crimean
experiences lie saw service in India and in
the Maori War.
R. V. Hodson, assistant-editor of the
“Round Table,” who is checking up his
knowledge of Australia, is a son of that very
learned Professor • Hodson, of Cambridge,
who spent many years in India and some
others as assistant- and associate-editor of
the “Encyclopaedia Britannica.” Hodson,
junior, looked in on America on his way to
Maoriland and Australia. Ho was shocked
at Maoriland’s borrowing habits ; so far as.
Australia is concerned, what has most struck
him is the entire absence of visible evidences
of depression in Sydney and Melbourne. He
wanted to see a certain picture in Melbourne
and had to turn up three times at the theatre
before he could get a seat without booking;
he doubts whether he could have had the
same experience in any other country in the
world.
E, Murray Fuller, the Maoriland art con-
noisseur, who died from the effects of an
operation in Melbourne the other day,
pioneered the peripatetic exhibition. in
1927 he went to Europe and returned with
a batch of canvasesthese he showed in
Melbourne and Sydney and then shipped to
the Shivery Isles in the Manuka. That
vessel was wrecked and most of the pictures
were lost, though a few washed up on the
beach. A second collection was shown in
Melbourne last year.
“0.P.H.”: In his reference to the four
bank holidays proclaimed by the Vic. Gov-
ernment in May, 1893 (B. l/3/’33),
“G.D.M.” is hardly fair to G. D. Carter.
The Treasurer concurred because he was loyal
to J. B. Patterson. It was Carter’s first taste
of office, and he had been at the Treasury for
only a little more than three months when
the bank-closing expedient—-undoubtedly a
blunder —was resorted to. Patterson liked
to dominate his Cabinet, and had less diffi-
culty in getting his own way after Isaacs,
his first Solicitor-General (now G.-G.), re-
signed. Carter was Mayor of Melbourne
(Lud Mayors had not been invented then)
before he became Finance Minister.
F. C. Staniford, new South Aus. Minister
for Education, is, outside public life, an
orchardist at Summertown (S.A.), where
he has lived all the 40 years of his life. As
a young fellow he took a keen interest in
matters affecting the welfare of his neigh-
bors, and was a shining light in the literary
F. C. STANIFORD, S.A[?]s new Minister
of Education.
institute movement and in various church,
agricultural and sporting 1 bodies. He was
also a stern Rechabite. He first entered
Parliament in 1924 as one of the ipembers
for Murray, was elbowed out in 1927. but
returned again in 1930. He has filled the
post of Chairman of Committees.
A few years ago a callow American young-
ster named Max Miller blew into Melbourne.
He was a reporter and Keith Murdoch gave
him a job on the “Herald.” He didn’t seem
to cotton to our ways, went back home, and
got a rather small job on the San Diego
(Cal.) “Sun.” There he wrote at odd times
a chronicle which he called “I Cover the
Water Front,” and presently sent it to a
publisher. After that he became famous
overnight. Among other things a telegram
came from the New York “Sun” offering'
him the column run by the great Heywood
Broun. Max Miller is still pinching him-
self : from a small shipping reporter to one
of the most spectacular jobs in New York
journalism is a dizzy ride.
A warm welcome will await the new
volume of “Banjo” Paterson’s verses, humor-
ously illustrated by Norman Lindsay, which
is to come from the Endeavour Press this
week. “Banjo,” the most popular verse-
writer Australia has ever had, has been
silent for many years: in the new book—
not a large one —he goes into the bush he
"BANJO” PATERSON.
loves, and ranges cheerfully among the queer
animals to be found there —the native bear,
Weary Will the Wombat, the porcupine, the
platypus, the bandicoot and all the others—
not forgetting, of course, his old friend the
horse. Mr. Paterson is a lawyer by train-
ing, but he has always been happier with
either a horse or a pen than with a law-
book.
When the Commonwealth Bank got under
way in 1911, it soon found that a designer
and engraver of banknotes was a pressing
need, and T. S. Harrison was imported from
England to take charge of the work. He
founded the commonwealth Note Printing
branch in Melbourne and made an excellent
job of its products. When war came and
Commonwealth notes superseded those of the
private banks his responsibilities were mul-
tiplied, but he was quite equal to them. Ill-
health hastened his retirement a few years
ago, and last week he died at St. Kilda. A
son is technical adviser to the Common-
wealth Bank.
“S.T.S.” : There is one detail about Phil
May (B. l/2/’33) that has never been
alluded to. At Christmas, 1885, we were
fellow-passengers on the Orient from London
to _ Australia, and he did drawings for the
ship’s newspaper, of which I was editor.
Here he showed a real gift for burlesque
classical tags—never, so far as I know, re-
peated in his later work. A portrait of the
ship’s doctor. Cater, for instance, had the
neat legend “Cater non sc sic.” And old
Ralston, of Sydney, was “Themos T. P. opul
anna non thco rient,” which on examina-
tion explains itself.
An authenticated centenarian has been
unearthed at ITarbord (Sydney) in Richard
Wetherstone, who was born at Braidwood
in 1832 of parents who were fairly recent
arrivals from England. He started as a
drover, in which capacity he scraped ac-
quaintance with most of the noted bush-
rangers of the period, who may almost be
relied upon to bob up in every oldster’s
reminiscences. When he got his first view
of Sydney the houses were mostly of stringy-
bark with thatclied roofs, and George-street
was no more than a straggling thoroughfare.
The veteran followed some of the early gold
rushes and saw the Lambing Flat riots;
later he worked, as a blacksmith and shod
horses among the sandhills where the Dar-
linghurst Courts stand to-day.
Philip Collier, Labor’s Parliamentary head
in Westralia since 1916, who promises (as
is the way of politicians) “happiness for
all” in return for another term of office for
his party, entered the Assembly, like his
opponent, Premier Mitchell, in October,
1905. Like Mitchell, too, he has found the
same constituency—Boulder, in liis case—
faithful to him ever since. Collier is a Vic-
torian, and was quite a newcomer on the
Westralian goldfields when he captured the
Boulder seat. He is a man who is always
listened to with attention in the House,
even by his opponents, and he has managed
to keep his party together better than any
of his predecessors in the leadership.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
f Dividends. 1 To Re- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
Dec.* £ £ £ £ £
1920. .199,212 30,000 14 p.c. = 70,000 99,212 616,120
1921. .184,372 30,000 14 „ „ 70,000 ' 84,372 700,492
1922. .205,243 30,000 15 „ „ 75,000 100,243 800.735
Transferred to Capital .. £250,000 550,739
1923. .159.479 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 39,479 590,214
1924. .142,315 30,000 12},, „ 93,760 18,665 608,779
1925. .133,005 30,000 12* „ .. 93,750 9.255 618.034
1926. .198,008 30,000 16*,, ~120,000 48,008 666,042
1927. .153,881 30,000 14 ~,,105,000 18,881 684,923
1928. .133,801 30,000 10 „ „ 75,000 28,801 713,724
1929. .132,077 30,000 10 ;, „ 75,000 27,077 740,801
1930. .103,969 30,0-00 8 „ „ 60,000 13,969 754,770
1931.. 70,644 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 3,144 757,914
1932.. 71,860 30,000 5 „ „ 37,500 4,360 762,274
Freight and passenger earnings improved,
but the sickness in the coal trade continues,
while the reduction of interest and divs. gen-
erally affected returns from the £1,361,000-
o'dd invested outside the business. Allowing
for the pref. div., there was enough to show
5.5 p.c. on ord. capital as against 5.4, 11.5,
13.7, 17.4, 18.6 and 24 p.c. back to 1926.
That is including net additions to the insur-
ance fund (£310,072, up £224 last year)
and to the reserve for “contingencies, taxa-
tion, repairs, superannuation, etc.” (un-
changed at £424,691). This reserve for con-
tingencies, etc., which expanded at the average
rate of £12,118 p.a. over the six years to
the end of 1931, is not included with the
lay-by in the table, though a substantial
part of it is probably genuine profit.
Since the public became interested, iu
1911, the ords. have averaged a wink under
10 p.c., sweetened with £250,000 of bonus
scrip, which lifted paid capital to £1,250,000
(£500,000 of it is in 6 p.c. cum. prefs.). It
was all very largely the outcome of war and
early post-war activities and the sale of
surplus to'nnage at peak prices. Hence the
fine wad of outside investments and the snug-
ness of the finances :
1924. 1931 1932.
Ships, etc. .. £1,055,442 £1,258,109 £1,578,501
Cash . . .. 35,127 20,796 402
Book debts .. 159,817 70,629 63,414
Investments .. 1,283,256 1,426,114 1,361,774
Stores .. . . 54,441 38,264 34,781
Total assets . . £2,588,083 £2,813,912 £3,038,872
Less liabilities.. 311,052 347,558 568,158
Net assets .. £2,227,031 £2,466,354 £2,470,714
To meet competition from the- Matson line,
the Wanganella, a fine new 9576-ton pas-
senger motor-vessel, replaced the Ulimaroa
(now laid up) on the New Zealand run
early this year. The purchase is reflected
in the addition o'f £320,392 net to the book
value of ships, etc., and of £220,600 to the
debt —the board went to its bankers for
£182,745, gathered an extra £21,272 of de-
posits (£115,872) and leant upon .sundry
creditors (£269,541) for a further £16,583,
while more or less liquids were drawn upon
for £95,432 net.
The market, which has always had a high
opinion of the scrip, prices the pound ords.
at 30s. as against 245. a couple of years ago.
The return at 30s. is 3.3 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis, or 5 p.c. should the distribution
be raised to p.c. Including the reserve
for contingencies, etc., the book value of the
backing is 51s. Bd. in net tangibles, of which
225. lid. was surplus liquids.
Immediate prospects depend largely upon
activities in the shipping section. Here trade
generally has turned in the right direction,
and the addition of the Wanganella to the fleet
has further improved the co.’s outlook. But it
may be a while before the co.’s coal inter-
ests, which used to contribute largely to the
pool, again return much in the way of divi-
dends. These interests include the Heb-
burn and Metropolitan pits, the latter on
the southern N. S. Wales field, and a hold-
ing in J. and A. Brown and Abermain-Seaham
Collieries, which paid 6d. a share for the 18
months to June 30 last —it is a merger of
the J. and A. Brown, Abermain-Seaham and
East Greta interests, and controls 10 pits
"on the northern N. S. Wales field.
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne)
Works Written
Divi- Charged Off
dends. to Rte- Stocks, Re-
Profits. (13 p.c.) venue, etc. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, ’24.. 125,385 65,000 46,871 5,533 704,234
Premiums on shares .. £43,528 747,762
16 p.c.
Dec., ’24.. 128,677 82,197 41,743 4,378 748,121
June, ’25.. 105,182 82,500 18,628 5,270 746,905
Dec., ’25.. 141,568 82,500 50,603 4,194 751.176
June, ’26.. 113,457 82,500 39,094 3,880 739,159
Dec., ’26.. 134,805 82,500 33,500 11,364 746,600
Premiums on shares, £68,040 .. 814,649
June, ’27.. 105,522 88,125 29,782 Nil 802,254
Premiums on shares, £123,423 .. 925,677
Dec., ’27.. 105,843 97,500 28,374 4,586 901,060
June, ’28.. 124,236 97,500 25,000* Nil 902,796
Dec., ’28.. 121,457 97,500 25,562* Nil 901,191
13 p.c.
June, ’29.. 89,356 84,500 Nil Nil 906,047
Dec., ’29... 100,772 84,500 36,184* 3,748 882,387
Profit on sale of land, £13,586 .. 895,973
June, ’30.. 94,328 84,500 22,038* Nil 883,763
Dec., ’30.. 135,380 84,500 50,000* Nil 884,643
June, ’31.. 126,757 84,500 14,702* Nil 912,198
Dee., ’31.. 107,254 84,500 Nil 934,952
June, ’32.. 102,776 84,500 7,908 Nil 945,320
Dec., ’32.. 108,380 84,500 9,388 959,812
*old plant written off.
This co.’s fully-paid £5 shares are one
of the most popular stocks on the market,
and, subject to legislative interference, they
seem likely to remain so until prospects
for traders in general greatly improve, and
while 3 p.c. is the best that bank deposits
will return and Consols continue to yield
under 4 p.c. At £l2 Bs. (the price was
never better) the scrip returns the investor
5,2 p.c. on a IS p.c. div. basis. The 13 p.c.
is, of course, mostly nominal; actually it is
worth no more than 6.1 p.c. on the average
auction price (£lO 10s. 3d.) of all shares
sold by the co. during the last 54 years.
During the two years to the close of
last accounts, the co. has made five cuts
in the price of gas charged to the consumer,
reducing the figure from 7s. Gd. per 1000 c.f.
to rates ranging from ss. 2d. to 6s. 6d.,
according to consumption. Another 2d. per
thousand was knocked off on February 12,
making the average price about 6s. 2d. More
gas and residuals were sold during the last
half, and revenue benefited by £30,011: —
Half Year Half Year
Ended 30/6/’32. Ended 31/12/’32.
, A ‘ 1
Per Per
1000 c.f. 1000 c.f.
S'ales: — s. d. s. d.
Oas .. ..£583,643 6 3* £603,224 6 3}
Residuals, etc. 84,865 0 11 96,195 1 0
Total ..£668,508 7 2} £699,419 7 3}
Manufacturing &
distrib. exes. 420,164 4 6* 407,738 4 2$
Other charges. . 145,568 1 6$ 183,301 1 10$
Total outgo. . £565,732 6 1} £591,039 6 1}
Despite a lift in the price of coal, follow-
ing withdrawal of the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment subsidy, the co. pulled back its manu-
facturing and distributing exes, by £12,426
(= 3Jd. per 1000 c.f.). The spring of
£37,733 in other charges was due to a growth
of £18,345 in rates and taxes (£48,887), and
a_ special charge of £20,000, being part pro-
vision for alteration to the head-office build-
ing. Additional savings can be expected to
follow further improvements to the plant,
returns from residuals should benefit from
the 10 p.c. duty on imported bitumen, and
the consumer ought to get a little more relief
as the sale of gas expands. No improvement
in the div. need be looked for.
In front of the £1,300,000 of share capital
there is £1,997,300 of debenture money, cost-
ing the co. from 4 p.c. to 8 p.c. Though the
interest thereon may be reduced by 4s. Od.
in the £ under the Vic. Financial Emer-
gency Act, the co. continues to pay the full
contract rate on all its debentures, which
arc trustee securities in Victoria.
Moreton Central Sugar (Q.)
Net To'Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves. 6erves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 32,695 10 p.c. = 8792 23,903 38,224
Reserves capitalised, £21,978 .. 16,246
Dec.,
1925.. 5,632 7 p.c. = 8055 13,823
Loss.
1926.. 406 Nil 13,417
Profit.
1927.. 526 Nil _ 13,943
Loss.
1928.. 6,674 Nil 7,269
Profit.
1929.. 876 Nil 8,145
Loss.
1930.. 7,677 Nil 468
Profit.
1931.. 480 Nil 480 948
1932.. 1,276 Nil 1276 2,224
V\ bile others in the industry have won satis-
factory returns, this one has limped along
crippled by the weight of the overdraft, the
size of the plant and the fact that it is too
far south —it operates in the Nambour dis-
trict. High prices and the multiplication of
small growers encouraged the board to
double the capacity of the plant some six
years ago; and it went to its bankers for
the money. But earnings shrank, owing
to * lighter crushings, refractory juices and
the growth in the surplus exported, which
brought down the average price of raws:—
Cane Sugar Manu- Sugar and
Crushed, factured. By-product Cost
Tons. Tons. Sales. per ton.
1924.. 86,076 10,265 £275,743 £24 12 6
1926. . 57,701 6,743 155,335 23 5 10
1927.. 46,355 5,917 130,266 22 1 10
1928.. 35,364 4,765 98,442 22 0 0
1929.. 48,074 6,510 133,087 20 11 8
1930.. 47,990 6,603 123,206 19 16 1
1931.. 50,932 6,772 110,206 16 3 7
1932.. 52,001 6,824 114,751 16 11 7
The drop in the sales and costs figures for
1931 was due chiefly to a reduction iu the
contract price for raws. Though last year’s
heavier crushing resulted in a bit more
profit, there was not enough to warrant a
div. It is unlikely that the business will
ever be worth much to shareholders until
the debt is substantially reduced and the
plant, capable o'f dealing with over 100,060
tons of cane annually, gets a lot more than
half a meal.
There is £llB,OBl of capital, which ' in-
cludes £56,199 of bonus scrip. At the end
of last year outside liabilities exceeded more
or less liquids by £76,975, an improvement
of £9884 during the twelvemonth. The over-
draft (now £93,453) was reduced by £10,619,
thanks to the allowance for depreciation.
The co. escaped the dry conditions and
frosts which have played havoc with the
current season’s crushings in the Bunda-
berg district. For other mills in which the
public is chiefly interested, the 1931 figures
compare with the October estimates for
1932 as follows :
r~ —‘ Cane Crushed .
Mil l 1931 Season. 1932 Season.}
Mourilyan .. .. 168,802 tons 167,000 tons
Qunaba .. .. 49,154 „ •*
Millaquin . . . . 108,378 „ 27.632
Bingera .. .. 121,117 „ 27 237 ”
Fairymead .. .. 123,984 „ 53,031 ”
fOctober estimate:
*Did not crush owing to droughty conditions.
It is obvious that Millaquin, Gibson and
Howes (Bingera) and Fairymead have been
hit severely. The average price for last
season’s raws has not yet been declared. But
the retail price of fines was reduced by Id. per
pound on Jan. 1. This means about £22 ss.
per ton for raws for home consumption as
against £26 19s. for 1931. There appears
to be little prospect of a substantial rise in
the world price of sugar. The net season’s
result will depend upon the weather, the
size of the surplus exported and the extent
to which costs can be further reduced.
Wellington Equitable Building (M.L.)
_ _ „ To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves
£ £ £ £
1921.. 6814 10 p.c. = 6000 814 85,889
1922.. 4704 10 „ „ 6000 84 593
1923.. 7811 10 „ „ 6000 1811 8e!404
1924.. 9682 10 „ „ 6000 3682 90,086
1925.. 9238 10 „ „ 6000 3238 93,324
1926.. 8265 10 „ „ 6000 2265 95,589
1927.. 6784 10 „ „ 6000 754 96 373
1928.. 1166 10 „ „ 6000 91,539
1929.. 4529 10 „ „ 6000 90,068
1930.. 3311 10 „ „ 6000 87,379
1931.. 3952 10 „ „ 6000 85,331
Loss.
1932.. 1706 Nil 83,625
Unless depositors in this old-established
building and investment society agree to a
three-years’ extension of their contracts, there
is likely to be no alternative but liquidation;
and liquidation might mean that they would
have a long wait for their money. The co.
weathered the crash of the ’nineties without a
quiver. Also, since it was formed in 1877 share-
holders have averaged over 10 p.c. ji.a. While
the Dominion’s primary industries were
prosperous the co. lent freely on broad acres;
about a fourth of the funds went into rural
mortgages. Slump brought a crop of bad
debts, of course, and it made city and
suburban loans risky, too. Over the five
years to the close of last accounts £35,893
was visibly written off mortgages; and only
by drawing on reserves for £11,042 was the
usual 10 p.c. to shareholders maintained up
to the end of 1931.
On April 1 last Maoriland’s National
Expenditure Adjustment Act came into
force. It prohibited the co. from paying
more than 4J p.c. for two'-year deposits;
yet the Government was selling 5 p.c. deben-
tures over the counter. With such competi-
tion the co. found it impossible to attract
fresh funds, while there was a steady with-
drawal of old loans. The 20 p.c. cut in
lending rates left, roughly, a 1 p.c. margin
of interest; it was not enough to cover man-
agement exes, and depreciation in securi-
ties, and a loss of £1706 showed up last year.
The loss was due to depreciation of pro-
perty values. These figures suggest that the
chickens started to come home in 1928:—
Interest Losses on Net
Margin. Exes. Mortgages. Profit.
1928.. £12,766 £3535 £8065 £1166
1929.. 14,365 2012 7824 4529
1930.. 13,484 2427 7746 3311
1931.. 12,897 2430 6515 3952
Loss.
1932.. 6,550 2512 5744 1706
Prior to 1928 the experience in connection
with bad debts was much more favorable.
The embarrassment caused by the sudden
withdrawal of £68,221 in deposits during
last term can be seen in this comparison-
of balance-sheet figures
1923. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Paid capital.. £60,000 £60,000 £60,000 £60,000
Deposits, etc. 218,848 252,820 235,163 166,942
Other liabilities 6,131 4,772 3,662 61,897
Mortgages . . 345,985 371,722 347,974 333,382
Sundry debtors 403 401 401 401
Investments and
cash . . 30,995 27,848 24,921 24,863
Freeholds .. 1,560 1,519
Allowing for £5744 struck off last year, the
book value of mortgages was reduced by only
£8848; the moratorium stood in the way.
Thus the co. was driven to its bankers and
others for a net £58,235 ; and as the liquid
position was gradually worsening, the direc-
tors were compelled to make a £1 call on
the 12,000 £lO shares paid to £5 after the
accounts had closed. Mortgages, of which
about 75 p.c. are in town properties, are
shown less £12,300 securities depreciation
reserve, which is included with the lay-by
in the introductory table. The directors
anticipate that the £12,300 will not be
enough to cover losses.
For the £5 shares, which were priced
at £7 a year ago, sellers ask £2 without
attracting buyers. The uncalled liability is
worrying holders.
Charles Davis, Ltd.
Towards
Dividends and Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
1922.. 11,794 8 p.c. = 11,610 184 1408
1923.. 12,119 8 „ „ 11,610 509 1917
1924.. 11,883 8 „ „ 11,745 138 2055
1925.. 11,893 8 „ „ 11,745 148 2203
1926.. 10,828 7 „ „ 10,277 551 2754
1927.. 10,430 7 „ „ 10,159 271 3025
1928.. 10,493 7 „ „ 10,159 334 3359'
1929.. 11,173 7 „ „ 10,159 1014 4373
1930.. 10,730 7 „ „ 10,159 571 4944
1931.. 8,391 5 ~ „ 7,256 1135 6079
1932.. 4,798 4 „ „ 5,734 5143
This is one of the few hardware concerns
which have been able to pay divs. of recent
years, and its profits, too, have flopped.
After taking stocks into the sheet at
£10,434 below the 1931 figure, there was a
slip of £3593 in last year’s net result, which
was 3.5 p.c. on capital as against 6.2, 7.8,
8.2, 7.7 and 7.7 p.c. back to 1927. The div.,
which had been lowered from 7 p.c. to 5 p.c.
in 1931, was dropped another point, leaving
it at 4 p.c., which called for £936 more
profit than was claimed.
It was as far back as 1847 that Davis
and Semple set up as tinsmiths and copper-
smiths in Batliurst-street, Hobart. They
moved to Elizabeth-street, the present
address, in 1862, and some 10 years later
Charles Davis bought out his partner. The
scope of the business was gradually ex-
tended by the addition of cutlery, guns,
household furnishings and all kinds of iron-
mongery to the shelves. Charles Davis, died
in 1914, three years before the concern was
handed over to a public co'., which paid
£lO,OOO for the goodwill. After a run of
8 p.c. divs., the rate dropped to 7 p.c. for tho
five years to the close of accounts in 1930.
But there was never much to share; the book
value of net tangibles exceeded the £135,000
of capital by only £5143 when the accounts
last closed. (
The next comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows that the co. remains well
equipped for difficult trading:—
1922. 1930. 1931. 1932.
Capital .. £135,000 £135,000 £135,0-00 £135,000
Overdraft .. 112 -
Other creditors 9,399 7,712 5,414 7,712
Freeholds .. 38,070 43,830 43,830 43,830
Plant, etc. . . 8,885 8,760 7,928 8,716
Stocks . . 81,728 77,341 72,910 62,476
Debtors . . 26,480 18.907 12,650 14,612
Cash, etc. .. 3,011 10,432 17,025 25,689
Thus, at the close of last accounts, the
small outside debt was more than three
times covered by cash, etc., alone, and the
co. was -in a position to take advantage of
cash buying.
Though the co. handles difficult lines,
it still retains a very solid little trade
connection, and the outlook is less obscure
than it was. The market notes all this, and
the snugness of the finances, and prices the
pound shares at 17s. The return at that
figure is 4.7 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is 20s. lOd. in net tangibles (book
value).
National T., £. and A. Co. (Melb.)
To
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 4680 10 p.o. = 3375 1305 32,840
1923.. 4117 10 „ „ 3375 742 33,582
1924.. 4109 10 „ „ 3375 734 34,316
Transferred to capital, £3750 .. 30,566
1925.. 5503 12 p.c. = 4500 1003 31,569
1926.. 5502 12 „ „ 4500 1 o t-i
To superannuation, £lOOO j “
1927.. 5653 12 p.c. = 4500 J
To superannuation, £lOOO j a ’' *
1928.. 5553 12 p.c. = 4500 } 01777
To superannuation, £lOOO J 06 ’
1929.. 5578 12 p.c. = 4500 ( „„
To superannuation, £lOOO J ‘ ’
1930.. 4618 12 p.c. = 4500 118 31,973
1931.. 3874 10 „ „ 3750 124 32,097
1932.. 4254 10 „ „ 3750} . 00 101
To superannuation, £5OO ) ’
Despite the fall in the value of property
and reductions in interest and rents, this
co.’s corpus and other commissions and
returns from its own funds (together
£26,916) improved £745 last year. Exes.
(£22,662, including an extra £950 for taxa-
tion) took £365 of the increase, leaving the
net result at 11.3 p.c. on capital as against
10.3, 12.3, 14.8, 14.8 and 15 p.c. back to
1927. The div. was kept at 10 p.c., and
£5OO was sent to the staff superannuation
fund, reducing the co.’s liability on that
account to £llOO.
The co. does not disclose the volume of
trusts in hand ; but the value of new busi-
ness put on the books during the last term
was said to be well above the average
of recent years, which augurs well for the
future. Also, the board was apparently able
to arrange cheaper accommodation than was
to be had from the bank. The overdraft
(£28,321 at the close of accounts) was
reduced by £20,154, while the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors (£20.848) increased
by £19,087
1926. 1928. 1930. 1931. 1932.
£ £ £ £ £
Liabilities . . 1,620 51,490 50,947 50,236 49,169
Public securi-
ties, cash,
etc. . . 11,684 10,400 10,400 10,000 10,000
Freeholds . . 56,762 107,989 108,474 108,424 108,424
Other assets 5,789 5,876 3,999 3,467 2,887
The debt is mainly in respect of the pur-
chase of an adjoining property about five
years ago. The intention was to rebuild,
and thus swell the rent roll; but a hitch con-
nected with consolidation of the titles, and
then slump, stood in the way.
On the market the £2 shares paid to 10s.
fetch 20s. The return at that price is 5 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The backing is
18s. 6d. per share in net tangibles. Of the
uncalled 30s. two-thirds is a reserve liability
that can be got in only in the event of
liquidation.
Ballarat Woollen and Worsted Co.
, Dividends Towards
Sept., Loss. Pref. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
1930.. 19,940 Nil Nil 20,157
1931.. 862 Nil Nil 21,019
Profit. (9 p.c.)
1932.. 7,199 927 Nil 6272 14,747
For the investor the chief lesson to be learnt
from the history of this manufacturer is
the influence of plant upon earnings, and,
therefore, upon the worth of the scrip. After
many years of varying fortunes, the extrava-
gance of war expenditure enabled a run of
over-liberal 15 p.c, divs. to be paid. But
as competition sharpened and prices of wool,
etc., shot up during the post-war boom, the
plant, which was out of date, failed to earn
any profit at all. During the five years to
the close of accounts in 1928, losses aggre-
gated £140,929, of which £109,095 was
special provision for depreciation. The slate
was cleaned by lopping £144,000 off capital,
reducing it to £90,000. In the following
year a further £32,400 of capital went down
the sink; a new co. of the same name took
over the old one as a going concern for
£57,600 in scrip. At this point the intro-
ductory table picks up the narrative.
To provide more working capital and help
finance the purchase of new boilers, the re-
modelling of the scouring and dye-house
equipment and improvements to the looms,
£10,292 of 9 p.c. pref. capital was gathered.
But some of the roots of the trouble re-
mained ; mechanical and other developments,
most of them affecting the cost of produc-
tion, left the' co. with spinning and finishing
plants less modern than most of its com-
petitors. Losses for the two generally de-
pressing years to Sept., 1931, totalled
£20,802. Last year the mills worked over-
time, thanks to the tariff, exchange and con-
ditions in N. S. Wales, and there was enough
profit to pay the prefs. 9 p.c. (leaving their
div. two years in arrears) and show 10.8
p.c. on ord. capital. As for the current term,
changes in N. S. Wales and tariff revision
have sharpened competition; much will de-
pend upon the volume of business the co.
manages to hold.
The financial position improved:—
1931. 1932.
Paid capital .. .. •• £67,892 £67,892
Liabilities . . . . . • • • 32,166 21,649
Freeholds and plant .. • • 51,968 53,228
Stocks . . . . . . . • 15,435 10,033
Debtors . . . . . . . ■ 10,515 12,960
Shares . . • • • • • • 1,000
Cash, etc. . . .. • • • - 724
Thus, after adding to the book value of
plant £1260 more than was written off,
£10,517 was knocked off the debt last year,
leaving the more or less liquid surplus at
£2344, an improvement of £8560 during the
twelvemonth. ,
The book value of the net tangible cover
for the scrip is £5 3s. 3d. prefs. and 14s. sd.
ords., all in plant, etc., worth what it can
earn. The shares are not listed.
Edwards, Dunlop and Co.
This old-established and ably-handled im-
porter of paper and printers’ requisites, etc.,
will return a further £161,128 (= 6s. Bd.
per share) of its capital as from April 30. re-
ducing the figure to £322,256. In July last
the whole of the pref. and one-fifth_of the
ordinary capital (together £207,355) was
returned. This because the death of a
number of Sydney and country newspapers,
the shrinkage in the size of others, and the
contraction in the demand for printers’
machinery and other accessories had re-
stricted trading.
At the end of April, 1932, more or less
liquids, including shares in other cos. and
(Continued on page 16.)


6
<4
6 66 i
hav e
llito «4
** tGtte
&•
tx
**<&
*s
‘wWTy
e^*s
a/.
?ee 5
e a
*
’*©«, "f L le t
p/,7 4 _ ra ,
of „ . Ce it, »#, af e £* h
c riti r ~* ie -•-
*** «Aq*
e f»
*4e JVr * f *» (& 44
ev sf,5 f ,
e ?** *>
a?
'«* 6,
pet iod
« ese 18 * e ‘
««„C* C" 17 C_ *'* °'
*JL. &e ' a ,
B av e
r °i?s
ISO/,
s Us traJ. S ' tn '°-o.t.L IS *V
af ton«, t , a/i «Jj , t J i ci g9t
*W no ete »t
G/Ve
y°n s
i/j
•«%
a
a*
*e*f.
e?
v tiing.
«sk \ fr
_, Hn
Jle H- n SOflj
r etf,
®ftjo^
e *A
ijjg.
av e
s e/,,
e^ej-
e af
Os> ft
'^Cc (
SIVQ
r ee c
y°ut
tXes”
m
o
mm
BBS
v* vM
mm
mm
4*.
S»
- ' ...
II i 1 1
&
: ir
* c
N$
/ ■
in
S°s F/
at
*S* T* s «»«
*Xs. Jos
On
Ons )


ORES & METALS. —We have to advise that our
Smelters overseas are offering exceptionally favor-
able terms for Refractory Gold Ores and Concen-
trates. We are also buyers of Tin, Copper, Lead,
Silver, Molybdenite, Scheelite, Wolfram, Antimony,
Tantalite and other ores and concentrates. Write
Norman Hill and Co., Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney.
—Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Ideas. —Commonwealth and Foreign patents
obtained; trade-marks, etc.; searches, opinions,
advice. Davies & Collison, 483 Collins Street,
Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies, M.Sc., and
Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt. n
* * * *
AUSTRAL BLUE STRAND “TRU-LAY” Preformed
Wire Rope for longer life.—Prices and particulars
from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd., 331-333 Kent
Street, Sydney. Successfully used all over the
Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons, 401-403 Kent
Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* He He *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other alloys, try LEMPRIERE
AND CO., Sirius House, Sydney.— Advt.
TESTING Of GOLD ORES
If you have a Refractory Gold Ore problem,
write us particulars and send sample for
examination.
We advise regarding most suitable method of
treatment, type and cost of correct Plant,
including Plow Sheet.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Melbourne.
AMP
“A sure friend in uncertain times.”
One insurance policy on
your life is NOT enough
There should be one to
ensure your daughter’s future
THE girl is eight years old, let us say. When she is eighteen
she may want to go to the University, or take a trip
abroad to finish her studies. Wouldn’t it be wise to make
definite provision for her, now, when you can do it for so little
and have the money to invest?
Or, perhaps, she is eighteen now, and you are wondering how
she will be faring in ten years’ time, when she is married and
you may be dead. Wouldn’t it be a fine thing for you to ensure
her future now while you can?
Through the A.M.P. a man of 30 with a daughter, eight years
old, can ensure to that daughter when she is 18 the sum of
£200 (plus bonuses) by a half-yearly payment of £11/3/2.
Why, he would never miss it l
A man of 40, with a daughter 18 years old, can ensure to that
daughter when she is 28 the sum of £500 (plus bonuses) for a
half-yearly payment of £28/11 /3.
In each case, should he die before the ten-year term expires,
payment of premiums ceases and the policy is available
immediately.
Talk it over with your wife! You couldn’t make any better
investment for your peace of mind!
Australian Mutual Provident
Society
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
F. F. McBRYDE, A. C. HOLLINGWORTH, A.I.A.,
Assistant General Manager. General Manager.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.I.A.,
Actuary.
Branch Offices in the Capital and Principal Cities of the
Commonwealth.
District Offices Throughout All States.
A-M-P
assets £86,600,000.
Gives best possible contract.
stocks, exceeded the outside debt (£34,208)
by £872,198. The capital returned in July
would reduce the figure to £064,843, and
still leave the co. with over £llO,OOO in
public securities and cash. Apparently book
debts, which were worked down from
£558,811 at the close of accounts in 1928 to
£351,499 in 1932, have been further reduced,
and liquids accumulated for which the board
can see no profitable employment in the
business.
The market now prices the pound shares
at 275. 6d., equal to 20s. lOd. after allowing
for capital to be returned as from the end
of April. For every three shares of 13s. 4d.
each two £1 shares will then be issued. On
this basis, the new pound shares would cost
the investor 31s. 3d., at which figure the
return would be 5.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. An 8 p.c. div. on £322,256 would call
for £25,780, equal to 4.3 p.c. on capital and
reserves combined.
Robert Reid’s Reconstruction
The board has submitted fresh proposals
for the reconstruction of the share capital
account (now £1,059,035 in 200,000 first
7 p.c. and 250,000 second 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 609,035 ords.). The scheme provides for
the return in cash of 10s. and ss. per share on
the first and second prefs. respectively, and
for striking ss. per share off the ords., thus
reducing paid capital to £744,277 in 100,000
first and 187,500 second prefs. and 456,777
ords. The jettisoning of £152,258 of ord.
capital will relieve the co. of its p. and 1.
debit of £151,069 at June 30 last. The
prefs. are to remain cumulative, but the divs.
are to be lowered to 5 p.c. firsts and 6 p.c.
seconds, with the right to advance to the
old contract rates with the ords. after the
latter have had 6 p.c. Also, the prefs. are
to be given the same voting rights as the
ords. now enjoy.
The reconstruction is to date from June
30 next. There will then be £73,000 coming
to the. prefs. in divs. —two years’ to the
firsts and years’ to the seconds. After
handing the seconds the odd quarter’s div.
(£5000) at the old rate, the firsts are asked
to accept 24 p.c. p.a. and the seconds 3 p.c. p.a.
(half the proposed new< rates) for the two
years to June 30. These proposed dividend
payments aggregate £30,000, which is the
maximum that the co. will be able to pay,
the board says. In return, the first and
second prefs. are to have the right to bonuses
of 10 p.c. and 8 p.c. respectively, should the
business be wound up, other than for amal-
gamation or reconstruction, within the next
five years.
The present proposals are in accord with
the points upon which agreement was
reached by the two committees of pref. share-
holders —one in Sydney and the other in
Melbourne. The committees failed to agree
as to whether arrears of dividends should
be cancelled, and upon the amount of capi-
tal to be returned to the firsts and seconds
respectively. The total amount of capital
to be returned is largely a matter of expedi-
ency ; hence the board’s judgment in this
respect cannot be lightly disregarded. As
for arrears of dividends, the board has partly
adopted the “Wild Cat’s” suggestion.
Since the close of last accounts the various
departments of the business have been
formed into a number of subsidiaries, each
trading under its own name. By organising
along specialty lines, greater efficiency and
savings in overhead are anticipated, thus
placing each unit in a better position to
compete for trade.
The market prices the firsts at 18s. and the
seconds at 135., equal to 16s. and 10s. Bd.
respectively after allowing for the pro-
posed return of capital and consolidation of
the scrip into pound shares.
The world’s stock of tin at the end of
1932 is estimated at 55,450 tons, as against
59,200 tons at the close of 1931. The reduc-
tion (3750 tons) is certainly not great, con-
sidering outputs were further restricted dur-
ing the year. Production in the F.M.S.
dropped from 51,247 tons in 1931 to 27,089
last year, and in the Dutch East Indies
from 15,106 tons to 7093 tons. The aver-
age London spot quote for standard tin fell
from £l4O ss. 7d. for January. 1932, to
£lO9 Os. lid. in March; the figure rose
steadily to £153 13s. 4d. for November, but
had receded to £147 16s. 3d. at last week-
end, with a tendency to ease.
* * ' * *
Research overseas has confirmed the opinion
formed by several Westralian metallurgists
that iron from the balls and liners of ball
mills greatly reduces the oxygen content of
the solution, thus affecting recovery and
plant capacity. Two steps to correct the
position have been suggested: (1) remove
fragments and undersize balls from the fine-
crushing mills at short intervals, and (2)
pass all pulp prior to Cyaniding through a
central magnetic separator.
$ * * *
An Adelaide syndicate is investigating a
deposit of alunite at Port Vincent, St. Vin-
cent’s Gulf. Here Sulphide Corp. excavated
34 shafts and two tunnels some years ago,
exposing a flat seam up to 18in. thick, and
estimated to contain about 41,000 tons of
alunite. Exactly why it abandoned the
proposition is not recorded in the State
Department of Mines. The syndicate, how-
ever, recently had a number of samples
tested at the Adelaide School of Mines, and
has now decided to form a co. to work the
deposit and manufacture alum. The tests,
which are. said to have opened up a number
of possibilities for the treatment of alunite,
showed maximum recoveries by roasting at
a temperature a little over 700 deg. centi-
grade and then leaching with water. It
was considered that an acid leach would
probably show better results;
* * * *
Guadalcanal, a gqld-dredging proposition
in the Solomons fathered by Alluvial Tin,
has been test-boring the ground selected by
Percy Penman. The first 12 holes put down
on the Belesuna area, as well as a dozen
on the Tinshula ground, have all been dis-
appointing. Prospecting along the Tsari-
vonga River continues in the hope of locating
the source of the gold found on its banks.
* * * *
The coke-ovens at Bowen (Q.) are ex-
pected to be ready at the end of this month.
They are being erected by the Government
at a cost of about £50,000. Mt. Isa will
take some 20,000 tons annually; the co.
also uses Bowen coal in its pulverised-coal
plant, which is generating power at very low
cost.
* * * *
The Queensland Quicksilver Co., Kilkivan,
has completed its 40,000,000-gallon concrete
dam, and is pushing ahead with the instal-
lation of a sluicing plant to,treat 800,000
c.y. or more of alluvial. Three other parties
are also' mining for mercury in the district,
where some fine specimens of asbestos and
good-quality manganese ore have also been
found.
* * * *
The Eureka, on the Palgrave field, War-
wick (Q.), crushed seven tons for
of gold, and the shaft is being deepened.
On the Talgai field, in the same district, the
Deaf Cat, Star of the East, London and
Monte Cristo all show promise. Talgai
produced upwards of £250,000 worth of
gold before the field was abandoned about
50 years ago. Several new reefs have been
located.
* * * *
Owing to floods, the Palmer River Gold
Co.’s dredge (N.Q.) got in only 14 days’
work during the first half-dozen weeks of
this year. But recoveries (590 z. 16dwt. of
gold, from 21,600 c.y.) were the best for
many months. Values have improved since
work started upstream.
* * * *
Gold and Mineral Options, a Melbourne
show, is running the rule over several pro-
perties in Queensland, including Mt. Suc-
cess at the Towers. Here a lode 80ft. wide
has been traced for 1500 ft., and 25,000 tons
of stone, assaying lldwt., awaits extraction
at the southern end.
* * * *
At Fulton Creek, Walhalla (Vic.), 850
tons from a 2ft. wide reef averaged 16dwt.:
another lode near by is 9ft. wide, and
is expected to average Bdwt. The property
has been well recommended by W. Barag-
wanath, and a co. has been formed.
* * # *
At Waterloo, near Beaufort (Vic.), a
start has been made to test-bore the Ray of
Hope, an alluvial lease of 250 acres. Boring
on the Beaufort Hope was recently com-
pleted, and results are said to be very en-
couraging.
* * * *
A £12,500 co. is being formed to develop
the Jaberoo at Elaine (Vic.). From two
shallow shafts, 184 tons yielded 2480 z.
* * * *
The Golden Slipper, formed to open up
a property at Glenluce, near Castlemaine
(Vic.), has put up the shutters. The small
ore shoots yielded only 2dwt. per ton.
* * * *
Golden Com, east coast of Tas., is instal-
ling a pumping plant to enable more allu-
vial to be treated. Five feet of wash has
proved to be auriferous over a large area;
the co.’s prospects are considered to be
bright.
* * * *
In 1928, when Lake View and Star needed
capital for deep development, New Consoli-
dated Gold Fields took 100,000 4s. shares
at 15s. each, and secured an option over a
similar number —one-half at 17s. 6d. and the
other half at 20s. New Consolidated has
now exercised its option, but the price has
meantime been reduced to a uniform 10s.
(sterling) per share. This will lift Lake
View’s paid capital to £540,000.
* * * *
A parcel of 50 tons of filling from the
stopes of the old Ida H at Laverton has
averaged 15dwt., while a further 100 tons
from the same source is expected to carry
at least lOdwt. a ton. A syndicate is con-
sidering the possibilities of treatment on
a large scale. Also, another syndicate is
erecting a plant to deal with about 250,000
tons of sands on the lease.
* * * *
The Carbine, north of Coolgardie (W.A.),
which has been worked many years by Craw-
ford and Pimley, is now under option to a
crowd in the Eastern States. A shaft is
down 500 ft., and crushings have averaged
lOdwt. over the plates.
* * * *
Wiluna is giving geophysical prospecting
a trial. A Swedish electrical co., reputed
to have obtained good results in other coun-
tries, is making a general survey of the co.’s
area with a view to locating new lodes.
***..'*
Dr. Woolnough, Commonwealth geological
expert, who’ photographed Freney Oil’s leases
from a ’plane and examined them on the
ground, says that deep drilling should be de-
ferred until preliminary operations have been
energetically undertaken. These should in-
clude synchronous aerial and ground sur-
veys and scout drilling. While no assurance
of success can be given, he considers the
chances of a “turn up” hopeful, provided
proper methods, backed by sufficient capital,
are applied.
* * * *
King Solomon Deep, at Gore (M.L.), re-
covered 29120 z. alluvial gold, valued at
£17,485, for the 12 months of 1932, making
the total 44110 z. since production commenced
late in 1929. Paid capital is £13,000
in 260,000 shares of Is. each, which' fetch
2s-. Id. on the market.
j |s * * *
Nokomai Gold, Central Otago (M.L.), is
making splendid progress with the erection
of its electrically-operated drag-line dredge.
Six sluice-boxes have been installed, each
capable of handling 30 c.y. hourly. Produc-
tion should begin any time now.
* * * *
Wh?it is expected to ultimately develop
into the world’s lowest-grade goldmine is
being opened up in the province of Quebec,
Canada. The ore-body is 600 ft. wide, assay-
ing ldwt. gold per ton, with a few “rich”
patches going 2dwt. In 1931 the Alaska
Juneau treated 2,298,000 tons of I.7dwt
stuff at an average cost of 3s. 3d. per ton —
mining 2s. 4d.. and milling lid. The world’s
richest mine of any size is the Ashanti, on
the African Gold Coast. For the year to
June, 1932, it crushed 151,597 short tons,
averaging 23dwt.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Names of a few good Victorian preference
stocks paying about 6 p.c.f —4731.
Melbourne Steam 6 p.c.’s; O.T. 8 p.c.’s;
Prestige 8 p.e.’s; United Provisions 8 p.c.’s.
The first two are exceptionally well pro-
tected- the third is well covered, and the
fourth’ moderately well covered, by net tan-
Sbles Returns at current prices range
from 5.7 p.c. to 7 p.c. in the order given.
BRIEF answers.
M S • (1) A large number of fossickers are at
work in the district. (2) It is colder, especially in
winter, and the rainfall is higher than at AVagga. (3)
Districts in N S. Wales at present producing most
alluvial are Hill End-Hargraves-Windeyer Trunkey-
'fuena, Tumut-Adelong-Tumbarumba and Moruya.
G.C.McK.: The building and timber trades and the
engineering and costl industries.. .G.C.T.: (1) No ,
England went off gold in September, 1931. (2) Nobody
can say definitely at the moment; much depends
upon the figure at which sterling is ultimately stabil-
ised in terms of gold. .. .A.McG.: Sell Consols.;
your bank shares may recover further yet R.Q.:
There is no open market for these bonds; the secre-
tary of the co. may be able to find a buyer
L.N.0.: So far as the market price here and the
exchange position are concerned, there appears to be
no need to delay the transfer.


THE SOAP-BOX
An attempt to answer some of the questions asked by correspondents.
Why Not a Wool Bounty?
If there is such an excellent case for a
wheat bounty, why not a wool bounty? This
industry lost seven millions in last year's
good season. It and the wheat industry are
the only important industries not protected.
If, as I think, they pay the greater part of
the interest and import bills, their collapse
must undermine our national finance and our
system of protected prices. —J. M. O.
The case for a wheat bounty is that the
farmer pays some of the cost of Protection
without getting any of the direct benefits.
To the extent that wool pays the cost of
Protection, it too is entitled to a bounty.
But whether wool pays to anything like the
same extent as wheat is doubtful. There is
this further point; the wheat-farmers could
not, by any means of which' they are capable,
materially improve the price of their pro-
duct, whereas it .is not at all certain that
the same is true of the woolgrowers.
The Australian £
You say: “When a currency is inflated,
as ours is, a man doesn't have to worlc twice
as hard to get twice as much money; he
gets ticice as much as a matter of course,
but it buys only half as much as it formerly
did.'' Now, you must know that this is not
the case. The Australian £, although worth
only Us. in gold, is buying (in Perth at
least) twice as much in goods as it did when
it was worth 20s. in gold. Have the money
powers bought you also, as they have all the
other leading papci's in Australia? — An
Australian.
We don’t know who the “money powers”
are; but the only people who have a
penn’orth of interest in this paper are the
men who produce it and the widows and chil-
dren of a few of those who produced it in
the past. That our £ is worth only 11s. in
gold is not the measure of our inflation at
all. If sterling dropped another 20 p.c. to-
morrow, our £ would be worth nominally
about 95., without any further inflationary
action on our part. If Britain went back to
gold, _ automatically our £ would be worth
16s. in gold, though we should be just as
much or just as little inflated as ever. In
short, we are tied to sterling, not to gold.
And our exchange on London is “managed,”
so it isn’t certain that 16s. is the true value
of our £ even in relation to sterling. Thus,
if the Commonwealth Bank thought we were
accumulating too much money in London
(we have something over 16 millions there),
it might reduce the rate to, 120, and instantly
our £ would be worth 16s. Bd.
Profits from Machinery
You, ask how far back we are to go in
dumping machinery to right unemployment.
Machinery should be taxed to the extent of
the labor it displaces, and a fund formed
which would be used to subsidise income,
instead of the Is. in the £ unemployment
tax of to-day. This could be worked in con-
junction with a short-hour week and strictly
rationed work. — F, A. A.
Here you have the assumption that
machinery displaces labor; whereas it only
releases labor to be employed in other pror
duction. Further, if the State took the
amount saved by installing machinery, what
inducement would an employer have to instal
any? “No,” he would say. “If it fails,
the burden will be upon me. If it succeeds,
I get no benefit from if. The dice is loaded
against me, and I will not play.” The result
would be that costs of production would not
be lowered ; prices would be kept up in con-
sequence ; and no purchasing power would
be available to buy new domestic and other
appliances and comforts. “F. A. A.’s” looks
a fine scheme for spragging the wheels of
progress.
The Douglas Plan
You ask “If there has never been
enough purchasing power to buy all the
things produced, where are all the things
that have not been bought?” But that does
not knock out the Douglas theory, because
Douglas expressly says that if goods cannot
be paid for they may be lifted with some
form of credit. Is that not a complete
explanation, not only of why there are not
huge stocks unpurchased at ordinary times,
but of why there is such a colossal debt?
—P. F. H. (Q.).
No, it is not. In the first place, nine-
tenths of the debt was incurred to pay not
for things produced but to get things pro-
duced. Practically all the public debt of
every country falls within that category,
including the war debts. Douglas proposes
to issue an enormous new body of purchas-
ing power—his “social credits.” The effect
will be to do precisely what the similar
issue of an enormous new body of purchas-
ing power did during the war; that is to
say, to intensify the evil which the system
sets out to cure.
Purchasing Power
I don't understand the A plus B theory
and don’t believe quarter of those do who
pretend to. I can see that more purchasing
power would clear the warehouses, etc.;
but why not go about providing it in the
simple and direct way of increasing wages?
—O. J. B; (Vic.). '
The error which underlies this is the sup-
position that money is purchasing power.
Two prospecting parties met a while ago
back from Alice Springs. No. 1 was short of
flour, and offered to buy some from No. 2. It
raised its bid to 2s. per pound, and there
still was nothing doing. No. 2, however,
indicated that it was short of sugar and
tea. It offered to buy some of these, and
prices were named. Nothing doing. “But
I’ll tell you what—we’ll swap some for
flour,’ No. 1 said. And the deal was
promptly fixed. Money had no value there,
and it has no value anywhere apart from
the goods it stands for. That is the. reason
why high wages or low wages mean nothing:
everything depends on what the wages will
buy.
Federation and Divorce
What is the use of trying to bluff West-
-1 alia ■' by telling it that it entered into an
indissoluble’’ union? There are no such
things as indissoluble unions. Circumstances
govern cases. Man and wife agree to be
united till death them doth part; but the
law divorces them, all the same, for good
cause shown; and there is plenty of cause
to show for the divorce of W.A. — Fed-up
(W.A.).
The law which divorces the couple does
not unite them until death. The church
may do it, but not the law. It is quite true
there are no indissoluble unions if one of
the parties can use enough force to burst the
bonds. That, however, means revolution
or civil war where Federations are con-
cerned : if it succeeds the bonds are burst;
if it doesn’t, there are usually a few hang-
ings. Apart from what force may do, there
are plenty of indissoluble unions. The
Supreme Court of the U.S.A. declared the
American Union to be one. The British
Parliament declared the Australian Federa-
tion to be another.
The Use of Machinery
Re the introduction of machines, isn’t this
the position? To me it seems that its intro-
duction is justified only provided the total
saving to the people through cheaper output
is greater than the loss sustained through
people being thrown out of their jobs. A
machine throws ten men out of work and
two become unemployable. It costs the
people, say, £8 per week to maintain these
two men. If £8 per week cannot be saved
through reduced cost of output, a loss will
occur to the community and the machine
should be scrapped. — Whoop.
Nobody is worrying much about the
machine which doesn’t reduce the cost of the
product. It will be scrapped. As to the
machine which does reduce costs, it is '
often not only installed but actually in-
vented in order to meet some rise in costs.
Hundreds of thousands of pounds’ worth
has been installed in Australia even during
the last few stagnant years in order to
enable the concern to pay taxes, including
exchange. Note the improvements in metal-
lurgy in Australia during the past 25 years:
the cos. have practically been driven to make
them by (1) falls in ore and metal values;
and (2) rises in wages.
The Rights of Majorities
I see Tite BuddeFin is opposing the vnth-
draival of Westralia from the Common-
wealth. You have talked a lot about demo-
cratic government and the right of the majo-
rity to rule; and why should not the West-
ralian majority have the same right to rule
as everybody . else? What more should be
needed than a referendum of the people of
the State concerned? What has anybody
else got to do with it, even the British Par-
liament beyond putting into effect the majo-
rity’s constitutionally-expressed will? —•
M.N.M. (W.A.).
And suppose you’ve got a nice block of
land with your home upon it; and a man
t comes next door, and proceeds to put up
glue-works and a bone-mill. “No,’’ you’d
say, “you can’t run a bone-mill there—that
wo'uld endanger my family’s health.” To
begin with, that is a reason why somebody
besides Westralia is concerned in this
matter. Westralia outside the Federation
would be a danger to the rest of the con-
tinent. In the next place, a bargain lias
been made; after giving the matter a very
great deal of consideration, the people of
Westralia banded over certain functions to
the Commonwealth. And you can’t with-
draw from a bargain just when you like.
When it’s made it’s made, whether you have
got the worst of it or not. Thirdly, what-
right has a majority in Perth to tell a majo-
rity on the goldfields what it shall do? What
right has a majority in one village to tell
a majority in another village what it shall
do? Or a majority in one street to tell
a majority in the next street? Or in one
liouse to tell a majority in the next house?
Obviously if you say that the majority must
rule in all circumstances, you will soon reach
a point where there will be no rule at all.
Why This Depression?
„ , " . , ,
I on say unemployment is caused by over-
production of wheat and other raw materials
you also say if the unemployed regained
thc-ir purchasing power they would absorb
the surplus. Is it not a fact that the world s
economic position is practically the same
to-day as it was prior to the slump? I here
are the same number of people, same quantity
of goods, same amount of money. —E. O. B.
(S.A.).
The same count of people, goods and money
does not mean the same conditions. There
was the same number of people and the same
quantity of goods, etc.,, in N. S. Wales after
Lang ceased to- be dictator as there was
before; yet trade and industry revived imme-
diately he was thrown out. It is true there
was an over-production of raw products in
the world; but a larger cause of the world
depression was a failure of confidence in
vac future. To win back prosperity we shall
have to remove the causes which produced
the loss of confidence. Chief among those
causes is the. existence of the huge foreign
war debts winch nobody knows how to pay,
and the threatenings of Communism. The
men who are promoting what they call
‘ socialisation ’ in Australia are doing more
to keep people idle and hard-up than any
other local force. How can men who have
or could get command of money be expected
to risk it in industry with this sword hang-
ing over them? The tendency, in such cir-
cumstances, is to keep money on deposit so
that it can be shifted at a few days’ notice,
~
Exchange and Wages
Suppose that the exporter asked for (say)
a 50 p.c. arbitrary rise in exchange, and
the manufacturer asked for a 50 p.c. arbi-
trary rise in tariff. Both ask their cus-
tomers to pay 50 p.c. more; yet you ivould
allow the tariff and not the extra, exchange,
The latter you say would be tampering with
the currency, would raise costs of the ex-
porter both as producer and consumer, and
would raise costs of government. I sug-
gest that tariffs have exactly the same effect
— they have already inflated our currency,
they cost the protected manufacturer them-
selves a lot both as producers and con-
sumers, they have dried up revenue from
commerce, and have required Governments
to raise £125 taxation to pay £lOO in in-
terest. If you agree with protection by
tariff surely you must allow the exporter
equal protection by exchange. —J. M. O.
Suppose the tramwaymen and the workers
in the newspaper offices wanted higher
wages. What should we say if, through the
Trades Hall, they got a law passed that a
penny paid for a tram-fare or a newspaper
should count only as a ha’penny, and a lia’-
penny as a farthing? It would be an easy
way to enable tramway authorities and
newspaper proprietors to increase their em-
ployees’ wages by 25 p.c.; but surely we
would say “No, that is a wrong use to
make of exchange.” The rate of foreign
exchange lias one and only one right pur-
pose—to maintain,a balance between exports
and imports, so that the exporter at both
ends shall be sure of getting his money—
and t ] lo f ore ign exporter includes the exporter
of mo ney, who ha s to get interest. Because
one t b j n g. j s justifiable the fact that another
tlii produces the same effect does not
j lls tify it. A man may die under an opera-
tioi but that doesn’t justify one in killing
another in col(1 b i ood .
.
Machinery and Labor
J n “Roes Machinery Cause Unemploy-
ment?” you say the man discharged is to
do “other things.” Of course. But what
tilings? For instance, an employer employs
ten men. Then he instals a machine. Result,
nine men are discharged. Obviously these
nine men cannot be put on to making the
machines. Tliei'e are men doing this work
already. Further; the man out of work has
no purchasing power to buy the machine-
made article, or the machine, or any other
article. What industry can employ him?
To say that some other will do so as above
stated leaves the discharged man nowhere. —
Q. g. p.
A motor-car manufacturer instals a
machine to do a job formerly done by hand,
and 50 men are put out of a job. But the
cost is so reduced that the motor-car falls
in price, and so many more are sold that the
whole 50 men are re-employed. At other
times and with other goods, the cost and
the price being reduced, the purchaser is in
a position to buy something else; and the
employer extends his industry accordingly.
And the price is habitually reduced with the
cost. Consider what the push-bike used to
cost, and the motor-car, and the gramophone,
and the wireless set, and most of the other
things in common use. The multiplication
of these things is due to the cheapening of
cost, followed by the lowering of price, thus
making enough purchasing-power available
to absorb another line.
THE “NO-WATCHDOG” CAMPAIGN.
"Mr. Lead the campaign against the reform of the N. S. Wales Leg. Council, his desire being to abolish it.”
"PINCHER" JACK: "I was only saying to my mate here how much safer your place would be at night if you’d let me-
shoot the dog.”


SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs
Royal S a i^ e
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Waltzes from Vienna ’
King's “The Cat’s Cradle
State Movies and Talkies
+
“When Figures Speak”: A Comedy
Scene : Chamber of Manufacturers’ Board
Room, Sydney. Large portraits of N.S.W.
industrial magnates adorn the walls. The
audience is very select, being restricted to
those who have mastered the art of perpe-
trating a balance-sheet and can recite from
memory the judgments in Lee v. Neuchatel
Asphalt and Garner v. Murray. The occa-
sion is the annual meeting o'f N.S.W. mem-
bers of the Federal Institute of Accountants.
The air is hot with excitement, and the
State Figure-head (H. G. Brierley) wipes
the steam from his brow. Some of his sub-
“Ominous whispering.”
jects have been rebelling; a movement is
afoot to oust him from the seat he has occu-
pied for many years, and never before has
there been such a full house. An ominous
whispering- goes on. The meeting is declared
open. Appears at the door the Uninvited
Guest from Melbourne, A. L. Prendergast,
the Federal Figure-head. The State Figure-
head moves forward to intercept the Federal
ditto, who claims to have been well and truly
asked in by lesser lights on the State board.
A member rises to pray for the Federal
man’s admission. “Mind your own busi-
ness,” snaps the State man. The member
minds his own business by continuing to
speak. The State man quotes 15 rules in
a loud voice, and hits the table nine times
with his mallet. The member continues to
ask questions. The State man falls upon
him with upraised gavel; somebody shouts:
“I’m a J.P.; I put you under arrest!” The
portraits of Wunderlichs and Prattens on
the wall raise their eyes in horror. The State
Figure-head trips over the curly tail of his
excitement, falls in a panting heap, and
yells for the police.
The business of the meeting is at last-
under way. The State Figure-head boils
over about the conduct of another institute
that went privily to London and obtained
for its members a Royal .Charter and the
right to use the sacred words “Chartered
Accountant (Aust.)” after their names; it
was all fixed up secretly before the Federal
Institute even got wind of it. An appeal
to let the Federal Figure-head speak his
piece is made at this stage by one who claims
that the Federal Institute has got all the
recognition it ever will get from Buckingham
Palace; but the State Figure-head won’t
hear of it. A' battleship accountant barks
that the campaign against the Chartered
Institute in N. S. Wales was intemperately
carried out; and an auditor in the cruiser
class fires a question: As the State Figure-
head is a J.P., why didn’t he compel the
Privy Council to give a more favorable deci-
sion? The State man skilfully steers the
dialogue towards the injustices of the
Charter, and a strong smell of red-herring
is in the air. An impatient member repeat-
edly calls fo'r a division, but the officer-ip-
charge seems to have left his ear-trumpet
at home. Another member declares that,
however unfair the Charter, the motion be-
fore the meeting is rude, intemperate and
an insult to his Majesty. A worried cop
looks in through the doorway. A vote is
taken ; the ayes are drowned by the no’es, but
the motion is declared carried. Comes a
noise from the side of the hall; has Wun-
derlich’s portrait at last crashed to the floor
in protest? A count is demanded, and the
motion is overwhelmingly negatived. But
the State Figure-head brushes it
has, he says, sufficient proxies in the ice-
chest to carry anything.
Comes the time for electing the council
—the piece de resistance of the show. . Six
reformists have put up; they claim that they
“Left his ear-trumpet at home."
have all paid their fees within the days of
grace allowed by the articles, but the State.
Figure-head rules them unfinancial. He and
six others are therefore re-elected unopposed ;
and as this is all there is to do, the show,
he adds, is over.
Then all the auditors and accountants
speak at once,. and the worried cop doesn’t
know what to do about it. So the State
Figure-head beats a tattoo on the table, and
calls on the police to throw everybody out
before anybody can. talk about anything else.
Counsel’s opinion on the rights of the re-
jected candidates is being read when some-
body switches off the lights, and the audi-
ence stumbles on the Uninvited Guest and
a hundred other hot and bothered columns
of figures groping their way down the stairs.
Dante, the Magician, who hails from Den-
mark, and who, under the name of Jansen,
delighted the parents of to-day’s younger
generation with his cleverly-mechanised con-
juring, opened at Sydney Royal on Satur-
day night under the Firm’s auspices. Red
devils act as ushers; there are red flames
everywhere, and the show lives up to its
atmosphere. Illusion 'succeeds illusion with
almost bewildering rapidity; everything is
done near the front of the stage, in a good
light; there is humor and a vast deal of
variety in the entertainment provided, and
Dante has an engaging personality. If noth-
ing much has been added to the methods
perfected years ago at London’s Egyptian
Hall by Maskelyrie and his associates, a
good deal has been added to the technique
of presentation.
Of course, every marvel that Dante per-
forms and a great many that are beyond
his powers could be depicted on the cinema
screen, but this is a branch of theatrical, art
in which competition from ,the screen need
never be feared. Tlie screen is too tricky
to be made an effective vehicle of tricks for
tricks’ sake. To choose the cleverest of the
half-hundred examples of his wizardry which
Dante shows to Sydney is a task beyond
this Showman’s powers, but so far as
popular approval on the opening night went
the palm seems to go to the barrel without
ends from which is drawn very good beer.
* * *
Sydney Players’ Club opened its season
at St. James’s Hall on Saturday with a
performance of “Dona Clarines,” by Sera-
fin and Joaquin Quintero. The piece con-
tains a number of shrewdly-drawn, contrast-
ing characters and a story that holds the
audience’s attention. The dominating charac-
ter is Dona Clarines, soured by an unhappy
love affair in her youth. The acrimonious
spinster becomes the guardian of Marcela,
her niece, who is being passionately wooed
by Miguel, son of the trifler who jilted the
old lady. Boldly he walks into her
home and pleads for her niece’s hand.
His eloquence wins the day and the
play ends happily. Gladys ' Shaw, as
Dona Clarines, and Kenneth Fowles, as
the silver-tongued Miguel, were well suited
to their roles, and minor parts were played
pleasantly by Patricia Wilson, James Han-
cock, Viola Wilding and Edward Cavill. Alice
D. Gould was 'the producer, J. E. C Apple-
ton designed the settings, and the Orpheum
Society Piano Quartet supplied the music.
The play was preceded by a demonstration
of stage settings in miniature designed for
“Bread,” to be given on April 22 by the
club. “Bread” is the work of S. Stedman,
who has contributed some fine stories to. The
Bulletin depicting life in Russia during
certain phases of the revolution.
“A worried cop.”
The Royal Academy of Dramatic Art,
which is under the joint direction of Edw r ard
liowell and, Therese Desmond, is Sydney’s
newest school of the sort. It gives lessons
in fencing and classical dancing as well.
Last weefe the academy held what it termed
its “First Exhibition Performance,” present-
ing four one-act plays: “A Romance of East
London,” by Mabel Constanduros and
Michael Hogan,; “The Dill Pickle,” from the
story by Katherine Mansfield; “The Wel-
come” (an anonymous Grand Guignol), and
“The Artist,” by A. A. Milne. There were
also songs, dances and a fencing exhibition.
The were capably acted, and the set-
tings were original and appropriate.
Rita Humpliress, who produced '* Isabel
Handley's “Saturday to Monday” for the
Kooroora Dramatic Club at Sydney Savoy
last week, did not have the best of luck with
her players. Kit Clirnson (Jessica) showed
confidence, but was rather too inclined 'to
play to the audience, and Ethel*Humphreys
(Mrs. Rollasbnb acted her part without light
and .shade. Richard Dowse, as„a smug hus-
band, arid Alice Watson, as a cliatapion of
women’s rights, were more satisfactory. The!
play could do w’di a
* # _' V
The Younger Feminists had a full house at
Sydney Savoy when they staged their “Sum-
mertime Revue”— : sammer had officially closed ■
two' days before. The programme, which was
varied, included a comedy sketch, “For
Adults Only,” a humorous fortune-telling
turn, and a grand-opera burlesque. Among
the ballets, “Jround the Marble Arch” was
the best. Marjorie Monahan, Janet Kelly,
Ivy Norman, lan Burgess and Frank Fowler,
were among the' evening’s .star performers.
The costumes and staging, fer? attractive'
featutes; but the orchestra lacked ginger.
Dollee and Frank Brooks were responsible -
for the turnout.
The Greenwood Tree Theatre in Cremorne
(Sydney), once a garage, was the scene last
week of a performance which opened with
a scene from “The Merchant of Venice,” in
which Ethel Falconer (Portia) and Jean
Mann (Nerissa) showed that they knew
their Shakspeare. Gertrude Jennings’s “Be-
tween the Soup and the Savory” revealed a
cook, parlormaid and kitchenmaid in a light
seldom seen by those who employ domestics.
Gwynne Perdriau, Margaret Gurney and
Edna May comprised the cast. Oliphant
Down’s “Maker of Dreams,” with L. Hay
Simpson, Elma Perdriau (the producer) and
Ethel Falconer as the players, and Susan
Glaspell’s “Suppressed Desires” completed
the bill.
With six shows doing respectable busi-
ness in Melbourne, old-timers are talking
hopefully about a renaissance of legit.
“While Parents Sleep” shows unexpected
signs of renewed
life at its new
residence at the
Comedy. “Waltzes
from Vienna” is in
its last weeks at
the Royal, which
is preparing an
appropriate recep-
tion for “Our Miss
Gibbs.” “Cynara”
at the King’s will
be succeeded by
“The Cat’s Cradle,”
in accordance with
the Seyler-Hannen
policy of quick
profits and short
runs. Nellie Bram-
ley is approaching
her first anniver-
sary at the Palace,
and Ernest Rolls
jsays he is being
threatened with
prosecution for
overcrowding at the
Princess. Mo is in
.full blast at the
Tiv.
* * *
Clem Dawe, with
whom are Edgeley
and Les White, is
keeping Adelaide
Royal merry through the warm weather.
An interesting feature is a kind of history
of dancing through the centuries, composed
by the local men Pewster and Tom King.
The Palette.
The modernists come into their o'wn in
the show of Empire posters at Orient House,
352 Collins-street, Melbourne. Such big
guns in English art circles as Paul Nash
and McKnight Kauffer here bend their
talents to the more or less lowly purpose of
pictorial sales talk on behalf of Empire
coffee, cotton and tobacco, and there is no
doubt that the effect is good. The purpose
of a poster is to grab the passer-by by the
coat collar and twist him round, and most
of these examples do their job. The Aus-
tralian specimens • are rather unfortunate.
One shows a flock of sheep apparently thriv-
ing on a diet of sand. The “Buy Irish Free
State Bacon” picture is illusfrated by a dog.
In her show at Melbourne Athenaeum
Gwen Barringer, the Adelaide water-colorist,
is almost entirely concerned with imposing
a pattern on Nature. Nature does not look
half as well in Mrs. Barringer’s crinolines
as she does in her own garb.. The painter
hampers herself less in her still-life than in
her landscapes. Consideration of . the num-
erous pictures of the Sydney. Bridge leave
the observer with the suspicion that Mel-
bourne still has to wait for a convincing
portrayal of that engineering triumph.
The latest purchases for the Felton
Bequest, now on view at Vic. Nat. Gallery,
include a bronze bust of Mrs. McEvoy
(£200) by the celebrated Epstein in his
early manner. It confirms a suspicion that
sculptors and artists go modern as soon as
they find that when they work on orthodox
lines they can do no better than 100 others.
A water-color by G. A. Fripp, R.W.S.,
“Sunrise in the Highlands,” was painted
in 1853 and looks like a page from grandpa’s
scrapbook. “Helen and Jane,” by Philip
Connard, R.A. (£350), and “The Music
Hall,” by Walter W. Russell (£300), are
typical Royal Academy pictures. A nude
by Jean-Jacques Henner, a nineteenth-century
French artist of no significance, cost £787
10s.. and a portrait of Melancthon, by the
sixteenth-century German Lucas Cranach, is
priced at £250. ' The most amazing purchase
is “View of Windermere Lake,” by George
Barret, R.A. (1732-1784). It cost £22 Is.,
which seems about £22 too much.
Poverty Point
“A Major”: This year the hundredth an-
niversary of the birth of Johannes Brahms
is being celebrated —he was born on May
7. His claim to a place among the elect
cannot very well be contested. He was a
profound musician, and so expert a pianist
that he finds a place in Grove’s list of vir-
tuosi. The simplicity of his life and the strength
of his character mark him as no trivial per-
sonage. As to his compositions, Schumann
and Joachim were his first champions. Grieg
hailed him as a genius. Rubinstein couldn t
understand him ; Tschaiko'wsky thought him
a, second-rater, and Paderewski finds in Ins
compositions no congenial tie. Huneker
doyen of musical critics in his day, dubbed
him, in more roundabout language, a sly
plagiarist. ’Cello-composer Popper publicly
launched the same accusation. Undoubtedly
his/idiom is difficult to master; just as_ un-
doubtedly it is worth mastering. It is a
saying,in high musical circles: Study Liszt
for style; Brahms for musicianship.” As
to - the mian“ himself, he was, after 50. tat,
an inveterate smoker, thrifty, irascible, a
bachelor, a poor and tactless speaker in
public. He loved Beethoven ami Bach ;
admired Verdi and the “Blue Danube
Strauss. - Tike the great Ludwig he polished
his compositions 50 times over. Unlike
Beethoven, he lacked a continual Hood or
inspiration. He died in 1897, and it musi-
cians have a Parnassus of their own he pro-
bably has the respect, if not the affection,
of a glorious company.
“L.H.F.”: Aussie’s old friend Frank
Harvey is appearing at London Duke of
York’s as Wagner in “The Beggar’s Bowl,”
a new four-act drama written round the
life of the composer. Characters in the play
include Liszt, Cosima and the mad King
Ludwig 11. Oscar Asche is producer, and
Barbara Hoffe, here in 1924, is in the cast.
“F.A.R.” (Hollywood) : Australians are
everywhere in Hollywood, and many of them
doing well. You remember young Phyllis
Du Barry, who used to dance at the old
Wentworth in Sydney. She had a stroke of
luck a few weeks ago. She was picked to
play opposite the magnificent Ronnie Column
in “Cynara.” Sam Goldwyn knocked the
“Du” out of her name, but gave her a five-
year contract. I went to a studio pre-view
DANTE, at Sydney Royal.
of the picture at United Artists, and saw
my young. countrywoman knock the eye out
of such a headliner as Kay Francis. Phyllis
Barry, by the way, has married a stout
cornet-player. They will do it.
“Cauboy” : Talking of house emptiers. The
other night at Melbourne Palace Frith and
Nellie Bramley were working conscientiously
to amuse a full house, and until the second
interval all appeared to go well. But when
the curtain rose on the final act the dismayed
histrions surveyed a half-empty auditorium.
I was one of the absentees, but I didn t
intend any disrespect. Along with several
hundred other admirers of Bramley-Fnth 1
was surveying the free dramatic entertain-
ment provided by the Metropolitan Fire
Brigade, who were playing on the Eastern
Markets fire.
“Craiser”: It is commonly supposed in
highbrow circles that the variety stage is,
morally speaking, the theatrical sewer. That,
it is imagined, is where the pavement ends
and bonds are loosed. Actually, the
reverse is the case. Take the theatrical his-
tory of the great Australian adjective. As
far as my experience goes, it was first intro-
duced here by Boucicault in “Aren’t TV e
All?” Shaw’s “Pygmalion,” which ? also
contains the tabooed word, hadn’t, if
I remember rightly, been then performed.
After that it cropped up in a succes-
sion of highbrow plays. Some leading
playwrights came to favor it more than
any other word. During all this time
I never heard it once on the vaudeville
boards. Tivoli patrons would have been
horrified at the offensive epithet. . The first
entrepreneur to introduce it to vaudeville,
as far as I know, is Ernest Rolls. In the
latest emanation of his brain, “Honi Soit,
at Melb. Princess, the 'curtain goes ' up on
an elegant old-world garden with a dear old
lady reclining iii a chair. A sweet- maiden
enters with a basket of flowers and, approach-
ing the old lady, says, “How are you feeling
to-day, Auntie?” “Bloody awful,” raps out
the nice old thing and the curtain descends.
On the night I heard it the audience appeared
to be more shocked than pleased.
“Bunk”: Say what you like about the
censorship, Australia would be the duller
for its absence. The latest guffaw was
provided by a stunt weekly which attacked
a film that the public had been neglecting
on the score of its dulness in the fruity
tones employed by a deaconess when some
Sunday-school Casanova is bowled out.
There were complaints of “lustful eyes,
“wet lips” and “unspeakable maulings,” and
the censor was ordered to ban the thing
immediately in the interests of Australian
purity or gentility or something. The exhi-
bitors were on to the boost in a flash, and
enough suggestive quotations were repro-
duced in newspaper advts. to turn the pro-
duction from a failure into a success.
The only sufferers have been those who
squandered their bobs in a wild hope that
the censor had forgotten momentarily that
Australian film-audiences aren’t composed
exclusively of 'Wolf Cubs and Brownies.
“Craiser”: It would he interesting to
know what music will have evolved into in
another 20 years. The public has become
so used to canned stuff that even the pur-
veyors of fresh or unpotted music make it
as canned as they can. When a crooning
laddie arises in a theatre orchestra he doesn’t
give you his aesthetic yearnings about girl
straight from the horse’s mouth, so to speak.
He puts a funnel to his lips 1 and bleats
through that. Even at solemn orchestral
concerts nowadays loud-speakers are in-
serted between the listener’s ear and the
instruments wherever possible. The result
will: be-that soon pure music will be regarded
as strange 'and' unreal, 'just; as actors’ voices
oil the legitimate stage seem thin and flat
to people who have been hearing a lot of
talkie dialogue. A playgoer told me in the
foyer of a J.C.W. theatre recently that the
music of the musical comedy we had just
been hearing sounded “very tinny.” The
piede was' “Lilac Time”,and' a good deal of
the music wds by Schubert. -


e
WILCOX, SMITH & CO.
Postage Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY
MARCH ISSUE NOW ON SALE.
Bonds and Debentures:
What are they?
Outlook for Investors
Life Offices and Public:
Legal Reforms Needed
Have Interest Rates Touched
Bottom ?
Trade Prospects
These and other vital matters
to investors are discussed
in the March issue.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-
PER ANNUM, 22/6
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Perth, Wellington (N.Z.).
NOTES-TIPS-RESULTS.
THE AUSTRALASIAN
ON SALE ALL STATES-S!
%
ONARCH
Cig&i'j
* Craig*, Aitken
Wholesale Distributors
Sydney NSW
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Nvavr" a
VMHj °P
uiioa
V? 3
YOKOHAMA
.•A Kobe, NAGOYf
moji U Osaka
iwtttthiHr/.V;
V>oa MANILA
rtefl
5
RABAUk
::* TawNSviut
ANE
SYONJf
Meuournc
90
Return from
Sydney
Round Trip Steamer Fares
Sydney to Yokohama:
First £9O; Second £56/15/-
The most attractive and economical
Eastern Tour.
Fares are Free of Exchange.
Round trip passengers may live on board
at ports, and the Eastern Exchanges are so
low that the Australian £ is worth more
than in any other country.
, S.S. Nellore sails March 15
S.S. Tanda sails April 12
S.S. Nankin sails May 13
Joint Passenger Agents:
MACDONALD, HAMILTON & CO.
GIBBS, BRIGHT & CO.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
■ ■
■■
a
m.
Sffe
■■
i§
SHADOW SHOWS
“The Old Dark House,’’ at Sydney Regent,
was made in Hollywood under the direction
of James Whale, but Benn Levy, the Ipng
lish playwright, wrote it from J. B. Priest-
ley’s horror-story, and all the principals,
except Gloria Stuart and Melvyn Douglas,
are leading lights of the London stage, Ibe
atmosphere is entirely English. It is another
proof of the immense cultural debt that the
outer marches of the Empire owe to the
talkies. By no other means could stay-at-
home Australians have had a chance to
study the technique of such artists as
Charles Laughton, Ernest Thesiger 'and Eva
Moore. Boris Karloff is the sinister butler
of the country house at which Gloria Stuart,
Melvyn Douglas and Raymond Massey take
refuge by night in a storm. Ernest Thesiger
is the suave owner, and Eva Moore is his
terrifying sister. Presently Charles Laugh-
ton, a vulgar plutocrat, and Lilian Bond,
with whom he is week-ending,. blow in and
tlie excitement begins ( Thesiger and his
sister have a bedridden father and an insane
brother upstairs, and the butler is liable to
get homicidal when drunk. After a night
of terror day breaks, the sun comes out and
Thesiger, disturbingly polite as ever, wishes
his exhausted guests good morning from
the stairway. A great cast in a show which
is an excellent medium for the display ot
dramatic gifts, and the photography is as
exciting as the acting.
“Face in the Sky” is whimsy in the wise-
cracking American manner. Spencer Tracy
and Stuart Erwin, who are caravanning
sign-painters, find Marian Nixon in the
power of a couple of oafish farmers, om
of whom means to marry her, though she
loathes him. So they take her away. Then
they mislay her, and Spencer with ,a break-
ing heart paints her face on the world's big
gest skyscraper, and she sees the work ol
art and flies to the perpetrator, and they
live happily ever after. One thing can be
said; it doesn’t contain a line or a situa-
tion capable of shocking Colonel White
himself.
* * *
“Marry Me,” at Sydney Mayfair, lias two*
defects —poor synchronisation and girlish
young men. Also, one sees and hears too
much of Harry Green —noisy, obvious and
always the same —and too little of that great
old comedian George Robey. Robey gets
his fantastic personality across as effec-
tively on the screen as he ever did on the
stage: he should be a goldmine to the British
film magnates if they can hold him. In
this show he is Aloysius Novak, a Hun-
garian pigfarmer in search of a bride ; Green,
who runs a matrimonial agency, undertakes
to find her. Green is also the landlord of a
block of flats in which lan Hunter (loved
by Renate Muller) is a tenant with his
youthful brothers. Renate and lan are
employed by a gramophone company, so the
director, has plenty of excuses to introduce
musical interludes. But he doesn’t really
need excuses. He is Wilhelm Thiele, and
the author is also a German (Franz Schulz),
so musical interludes appear out of the void,
so to speak, as in a Lubitscli film. The
whole action proceeds to a gay accompani-
ment of singing and dancing, yet there are
none of the old-fashioned unrealities of musi-
cal comedy. It is typical German farce, 'and
it has a pleasant romance running through
it, and one or two numbers which are the
last word in catchiness. Renate Muller is
natural in her jolly Teutonic manner—
additionally refreshing as a change from
overdressed, over-sophisticated American
beautiesI—and 1 —and her singing voice is delightful
“White Face” is an Edgar Wallace homi-
cide piece. Illegality first rears its head in
a night club when the mysterious White
Face tears a necklace from 'a lady reveller
and retreats with drawn revolver. A murder
in a mews is the next item. Norman
McKinnel, as a Scotland Yard chief, investi-
gates with a thoroughness which gets tedious
at times, and, of course, the knife-thrower
turns out to be the last character the audi-
ence suspected. The Cockney jokes are
funny, and there is charm in tin* shots of
London’s misty streets.
* #
Though it moves with painful slowness at
times and its economy in the way of sets is
noticeable, “Lord Camber’s Ladies,” at Syd-
ney Lyceum, is excellent in character-por-
trayal. Every member of the cast is a
London player of recognised merit. Herald
ilu Maurier, Gertrude Lawrence, Benita
Hume, Bromley Davenport and Nigel Bruce
(as the amorous Lord Camber) are all in it,
and several play the roles they had in the
Vachell tragi-comedy when it was staged in
London. Lord Camber, man of many loves,
when the loves overlap tries to get rid of
Lady Camber by poison. He is quietly
foiled b.v Dr. Napier and Janet King, acting
independently, and the scene of his unmask-
ing is the highlight of the film. The speech
and acting might well be taken as models
by aspiring local amateurs.
“Money Talks” is a curiosity considering
it has come out of Elstree —a typical Holly-
wood ghetto-comedy, replete with stage-
Jews, venerable wise-cracks and fruity
American sentiment. Julian Rose carries
most of the burden as an elderly hero with
one foot in “Brewster’s Millions” and the
other in “Potash and Perlmutter.” Judy
Kelly, the Sydney girl who won a screen-
test competition, is the heroine. She looks
nice, and she will learn, of course, but at
present she betrays her lack of training and
experience at every turn.
* * *
Sydney Arcadia was stacked with excited
Comrades for the first release of “Russia’s
Giant Farm,” one' of the U.S.S.R.’s much-
boomed propaganda films. They came to
cheer but remained to yawn. There are
hundreds of tractors —many driven by
women—drawing ploughs. The people are
shown working from dawn till dark (in one
scene the tractors have headlights) ; they
sleep in tent dormitories, and seem to have
no amusements of any kind. Dull to a degree,
but the photography is splendid.
“The Son-Daughter,” at Sydney St.
James, claims to portray life in modern San
Francisco’s Chinatown. Lien Wlia (Helen
Hayes), lovely daughter of Dr. Dong Tong
(Lewis Stone), has broken custom: she has
communicated with a young student, Mr.
Tom Lee (Ramon Novarro). Her father
consents to the betrothal and all is made
ready—but money is needed in order that a
munition ship, already laden, may be sent
to the revolutionaries in China. Lien Wha
merits the title of “Son-Daughter” when she
consents to sell herself to a ricn merchant
(Warner Oland) so that the ship may sail.
It is a great part for Helen Hayes. She is
timid in her delightful love scenes with
ISovarro; purposeful in her determination
to sacrifice herself; remorseless when she
realises that her lover is dead , and that the
sacrifice may be in vain. The other parts
are well played, and the film has tne advan-
tage of being up-to-the-minute news in a
manner of speaking.
* * #
In “Rockabye,” at Sydney Empire, Con-
stance Bennett shrieks her way through a
series of stock situations arising from the
emotional instability of the character she re-
presents. She is an actress who has graduated
from a slum and remains at heart a slum-
dweller. Her troubles are founded on the
discovery that a dramatist for whom she
has conceived a passion doesn’t love her.
So she marries her manager. The dramatist,
who js already married, wants to leave his
wife for her, but she nobly prevails on him
to refrain. Jobyna Howland, Constance’s
tippling mother, collars most of the acting
honors, with Paul Lukas a close second,
The supporting picture, “The Big Broad-
cast,” which gives the layman an insight
iu t:o the running of a broadcasting studio,
an( ] introduces various tricks of the trade,
such as slapping a rag across a boot-toe
to imitate step-dancing, presents half a
dozen popular American radio artists,
* * *
Sydney Haymarket is screening a poor
programme. Buck Jones cavorts stolidly,
a s always, throughout “Forbidden Trail.” In
the other, “As the Devil Commands,” Alan
Dinehart, as a scheming lawyer, tries to
control, as he does the pieces in his beloved
chess, Mae Clarke, bulky Neil Hamilton and
Charles Sellon, who on his deathbed looks
as ghastly as an expiring monk conceived
by an Italian primitive after a bout with
sour wine. The depiction of a real game of
chess would have been more .exciting.
“Garrick”: The system employed by the
Russian motion-picture director Eisenstein,
w j lo cro dited with Having revolutionised
film technique—that of engaging characters
whose lives are coincident with those of the
characters in the story to be produced as a
picture—has long been employed by Gregan
McMahon. In the ranks of the Gregan
McMahon . Players are people occupied in
pretty well all avenues of and
professional endeavor, and as far as possible
they are cast in keeping with their callings.


AT LAST! ANOTHER BOOK OF VERSE
by BANJO PATERSON
WILL SOON BE AS POPULAR AS “CLANCY”
AND “THE MAN FROM SNOWY RIVER.”
THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT”
WITH 25 ILLUSTRATIONS BY NORMAN LINDSAY.
On Sale at All Booksellers and Newsagents, “The Bulletin” Offices in All
States, or direct from the Publishers,
The Endeavour Press, Bulletin Buildings, 252 George Street, Sydney.
PRICE, 2/6; Postage Id. extra.
V ft
&JL
m
i
<0
X
/o«
ABORIGINALITIES
ROW'S
EMBROCATION IN USE
OVER 100 YEARS
“Kuda”: Chasing the ’weight isn’t perhaps
the pleasantest form of existence, but it
has its compensations. Little Bill is one of
them. Carrying a swag as big as himself, he
blew in from nowhere recently, and round the
fire at night has been everything, from first
man ashore at Gallipoli to rider of the
“LADIES FIRST, MY DEAR.”
winner of the Grand National at Aintree.
The horse was named Flying Fox ; and
belonged to King Edward. But let Bill tell
it himself. “’E came down with me at
Beecher’s Brook and I breaks me flamin’
collarbone. I mounts him again with the
field nearly out of sight, and catches them
just as we passes the stand for the first
time. Then the cow rolls over at Tatten-
liam Corner and I breaks me right arm, but
I struggles on and lie’s just up with the
leaders as we passes the stand second time
round. Blimey, down the blankard comes at
Jumbo, and after I scrambles on ’e’s a fur-
long behind. But I keeps him at it, and,
passin’ the stand for the last time, I’m
layin’ third. As we goes past King Ned
bawls out: ‘lf he comes down again, my boy,
don’t persevere with him.’ ” “And how did
you finish?” I asked. “Just mucked it in,
Digger,” said Bill; “just mucked it in.”
* * * *
“Wobey”: At Shelly Beach, a mile or
two out of Warrnambool (Vic.), a tunnel is
being blasted through the cliff to carry the
' city sewage out to sea. Quite unconscious
of these operations, I was standing on a
long flat rock watching the glorious spray
around Thunder Point. An explosion took
place behind me, followed by eight more. At
the fifth it commenced to rain bits of rock
and I did the 220 yards to the shore and
shelter in (I swear it) 22 seconds. When
the fuss subsided I climbed the cliff and,
seeking out the chief Guy Fawkes, remon-
strated with him. “No danger,” he said;
“ver’ small shots, ver’ small—two, t’ree
t’imblefuls.” Later the gentleman showed me
a rock about the size of a dray which he
said had fallen on one of the workmen while
engaged filling a trench. His mates yelled
to him, but, mistaking their signals, he had
stopped right under it. Had he not moved
lie would have been safe. “There was no
shooting,” explained my informant. “Rock
fell. Choost bada luck.” It was.
* * si:
“Uramao”: Maoriland had duels in the
’fifties. One in which two lawyers settled
their difference over a legal point ended
fatally for one of them. In March, 1854,
W. V. Brewer and H. Ross stood up to
one another in Wellington with pistols. The
first shot Avounded Brewer, who lingered for
some days, difil then gave up the ghost. The
jury returned a verdict that he had died
from a wound inflicted by “some person un-
known” ; and the community, a strongly
sporting mob, let it go at that.
if X X s|t
“The Haunted Man”: It happens each
night, in that eerie time an hour before the
dawn. A long, Avheezing, snuffling gurgle,
as of someone being slowly strangled, accom-
panied by dull thuds, as though the strangler
were banging his victim’s head upon the
ground. The sound comes, apparently, from
a spot just beyond the foot of my bed. It
lasts about ten minutes. I know what is
coming next. Hurried footsteps. Scufflings
in the dark. A mad pursuit. Crashes and
collisions. These take place overhead. Then
the wheezy sighs break out again, this time
from underneath the house. I know that in
the morning there will be strange footprints
on the sandy floor of my cellar, and that
the seeds will be gobbled off my roses. That
ring-tailed ’possum has been taking his
nightly constitutional, which includes a romp
inside my roof. He’s a dabster at ventrilo-
quial effects.
sj! * * *
Lou-is Wentworth: Touching the age of
the poisoned Ithaca fig-tree at Elizabeth
THE ACCIDENT.
DAVE: “The new bloke and the cow have fell into the creek, dad.”
DAD: “I’ll come and help yer get her out.”
Bay, Sydney (B. 22/2/’33). From his house
adjacent to Petty’s Hotel, my uncle used to
take me through what is now Hyde Park,
via what is now William-street and Darling-
hurst, to Elizabeth Bay every morning
(except Sundays). The tree was there then
(about 1850) and was fully grown and good
shade for man and beast, so “Pokeno” and
the curators of Kew and Calcutta are talking
nonsense. My brother, who lives in Queens-
land and is 97, says the Moreton Bay figs on
his place were there long before he came. He
reckons they must be at least 150 and pos-
sibly 200 years old, and they are not half
the size of the Elizabeth Bay tree.
X •
“Tiny” : “Plankton’s” yarn (B. 22/2/’33)
about the man . whose photograph decorated
the tombstone sounds quaint, but this is a
well-worn custom in Italy and the Italian
cantons of Switzerland. In the German
cantons of the inland republic the defunct
is allowed’ 25 years in mother earth, after
which the bones are taken out, placed in
an urn, which also serves as a tombstone,,
and put in a gallery, the grave lot being
used again.
if * *
“C. Coral”: When the “Blackbirding Act”|
was passed in the early ’seventies H.M.S.
Basilisk was one of the ships sent up by
the Imperial Government to put the Act
into operation in Torres Strait waters. Cap-
tain Moresby made several captures, but in
between seizing slave-carriers he went' explor-
ing and found a new passage (the Great
Nor’-east Channel) through Torres Strait.
The members of his ship’s company were
also enterprising. It is recorded that one
man bought a New Guinea pig and got £5
for it when the ship arrived in Sydney. Its
purchaser wasn’t such a fool as his liber-
ality betokened. He shaved the pig, painted
it in stripes of gay colors, set up a tent in
one of the principal Sydney thoroughfares,
and at sixpence a time exhibited “The Won-
derful Striped New Guinea Fig, just brought
in by H.M.S. Basilisk.”
* * * *
“Dai R.”: In the days before the rail-
way invaded the bush “booze-teams” were
a regular feature of outback scenery. From
every town that boasted a brewery (as most
of the larger outback towns did in those
days) they sallied forth, their goals the
shanties on the rises and the ten-mile pubs
of the wilderness. It was an unwritten law
of the business that a carrier was entitled
to sample the brew ; and when several booze-
teamsters spent a night together (as often
happened) lusty were the choruses that dis-
turbed the wild denizens of the bush, and
generous the fluid hospitality extended to
the chance caller, be he squatter or swag-
man. An instance sticks in my mind. I d
been sent to look for lost horses, and, re-
turning with my captives and a throat that
had felt no moisture since my waterbag gave
out at two o’clock that February day, was
glad to strike the crowd round the fire and
gasp for drink. “Help yourself, lad,” said
a burly teamster, passing me a billy. I must
have swallowed half a pint before I could
stop. It was ten o’clock next morning when
I awoke. That billy contained overpreof
rum.
if x * *
“Malakuna”: The whole of this New Ire-
land village is talking about it—the old
people in despair, the young with a snigger.
Komatan, of the Dau “pidgin” (totemic
group), and Nunuet, of the Arua, have eloped.
These two “pidgins” being “brothers,” the
pair are not “married straight.” The offence
is the greater in the eyes of the old people
because Nunuet was bespoken for the phleg-
matic Lapuru. The penalty for such be-
havior in the past was death. If the male
did not hang himself upon the “long-pig”
pole inside the men’s enclosure,, his own
clansmen would spear him and expose the
body. This is no longer allowed by
“Guv’man,” and old Kameke, a survivor of
“fashion b’long before,” is feeling his -posi-
tion keenly.
**‘ i * *
“M.Tj.C.” : A large wedge-tailed eagle was
shot lately at Tunbridge, Tas., with a
rabbit-trap which had rusted into the flesh
still attached to its leg. From tip to tip
of its wings it measured 6ft. 3in.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale”: A species of Eugenia
punctuates the dense scrub of North Queens-
land and Arnhem Land. It sprouts its
white flowers from the topmost branch to
the earth, no trunk being discernible owing
to the profusion, and the conical shape
which the trees often favor give them the
appearance from a distance of great white
obelisks. The heavy perfume of the blos-
soms (resembling a mixture of roses and
violets with a dash of burnt almonds) can
be smelt quarter of a mile away. When
Binghi eorroborees raged excessively up that
way, the female of the species used to deco-
rate her hair with the flowers, the scent of
which was supposed not only to promote
health and general good luck, but to be par-
ticularly repulsive to malicious spirits.
SAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Stubbornly the scrub denies
Black-soil plain the right of way.
Over stunted treetops rise
Roofs of dingy silver-grey,
Where a woolshed, yards and huts.
Rot from idleness, not age ;
Sand and leaves have filled the ruts
Leading from the loading stage.
Sixty stands lie idle there,
Woolbins, tables, presses, scales;
Drifting sand is everywhere
Creeping over sagging rails;
Rabbits burrow ’neath the floor,
In the yards the nettles grow ;
Aimlessly an unlocked door
Swings unheeded to and fro.
In the unstocked paddocks lie
Stepped-in tank and sand-choked drain;
Fences, under sand feet high,
Slowly vanish, strain by strain;
Where great belts of mulga grew
Only jagged stumps remain;
Scattered bones in thousands strew
Barren ridge and baking plain.
All the homestead roof and walls
Shelter now are whisperings
Of the restless sand that falls
As some hoard or rafter springs;
Dismal sounds, like murmurs low
Of the lonely rooms that sigh
For the folk who, years ago,
Locked the doors and said good-bye.
QUEENSLAND.
MOROBE.


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - . 4,30P,G00 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,778,025 0 0
Directors *
„ GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman).
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR. ONSLOW. V.D., M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, 3.0.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughput Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of the
.. . world.
.__ _ All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS—lnspection invited. Particulars ot
Safe Rentals on application.
e
WHEN LIVING WAS CHEAP
YEARS ago, when living was cheap, many men assured them-
selves for sums that seemed adequate—then! To-day
those sums are quite insufficient. The cost of living has doubled
itself. Amounts that would have kept your dependents years
ago would mean penury to-day. Protect your dependents
to-day as you did years ago. Increase your policy to meet the
new conditions of to-day and to-morrow.
£% PRODUCERS CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Managing Director: H. Fell.
Head Office: P. & C. Building, corner Elizabeth & Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
N.S.W. Agents: Farmers & Graziers’ Co-operative Grain Insurance and __
Agency Co., Ltd.
“Nakh”: The first Atlas moth ever bred
in Australia astonished the ey.es of the Mel-
bourne Museum entomologist, J. Clark, when
he opened his laboratory the other day. The
cocoon had been brought from Ceylon by a
mining engineer, and it was supposed that
the Vie. climate would be against the creature
ever seeing the light. These glorious insects
emerge from their prison in full panoply.
In the tropics they are common enough, and
in Java we used to pin the cocoons on our
bedroom walls in order to enjoy the sen-
sation their unexpected appearance gave.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: A grass that is being widely
planted in Europe at present to prevent
erosion by the sea and to reclaim salt
marshes is known as Spartini townsendii.
The grass is a hybrid, partly British and
partly Amei-ican, and was originally pro-
duced accidentally. In some places in Hol-
land it has raised the level of the land five
or six feet in 10 years, and it is now being
used to prevent erosion of the coast in Essex.
* * ' * *
“Mulga Bill”: Fishes and nests may seem
incongruous, but the mother jewfish makes
a nest for her young. Here in s.-w. Queens-
land where these fish are plentiful, the nests,
which are formed at the end of the per-
manent holes, come into view at the end
of a long dry season. They are heaps of
stones, ranging in size up to half a pound,
and the nest may be a circle with a dia-
meter of three feet. Outside the heap ot
stones is usually a circle of mud. This is
banked up by the mother fish swimming
round constantly with her stomach touching
the bottom, guarding the young fish who
live among the stones.
* * * *
“Hornby” : There is the hoary wreck of a
Lizzie in Lightning Paddock, Tullamore
(N.S.W.), near the old gold workings. It
was left there, local legend says, by a pros-
pector who happened on a rich pocket 20
years ago, and in the pride of his new-
found affluence unsentimentally jilted poor
Elizabeth. Since then (turned on its side
with the hood towards the rainy quarter)
it has saved many a tentless fossicker from
a wetting, and is as well known to that
nomadic brotherhood as any hut of the out-
back to the professional road-flogger. Eigh-
teen months ago I sat under it during a
fierce thunderstorm in a dryness as complete
as that of the morning after.
* * * *
“Ahnel”: “Der Jong” (B. l/2/’33) disa-
grees with Le Soeuf’s contention that
dugong flesh is better than pork, and sug-
gests that it tastes like cod-liver oil.
Dugong roast has graced my table on several
occasions. Once would have been enough
had there been the faintest flavor of cod-
liver oil. Forty years and more ago a chap
named Davy made a lot of money out of
dugong-hunting along the Barrier Reef. His
headquarters were Stewart’s Peninsula, 50
miles or so north of Mackay. A couple
of dozen niggers, huntine in bark canoes
with harpoons and large nets, were in his
pay. Davy gave them half a crown for
each dugong in addition to an allowance of
flour and sugar. His profits must have been
considerable, for he received a pound for the
hide, and the four or five gallons of oil a
dugong yielded was worth a quid a gallon.
What is to the point in the present discus-
sion is that Davy also developed a good
market for dugong bacon.
* * * *
“Booraby”: A striking commentary on the
rabbit situation to-day is Belltrees station,
near Scone (N.S.W.). This place, which was
the home of the late pastoralist-ornithologist
H. L. White, is quite clean, and is kept clean
by one man, though rabbits are numerous
around it. Elsewhere tlfe bunnies have been
increasing at an alarming rate, and they are
invading the north-eastern farming districts,
whilst the cry goes up from all quarters for
Government assistance. The reason is the
common habit of knocking off before the job
is finished. If you leave only one pair
of rabbits to breed up again, all the work
of poisoning, digging out and so forth is
wasted. White never did anything by halves,
and the rabbit man on Belltrees to-day has
only to watch the fences.
THE COLOR SCHEME.
WELL-TANNED SURFER: “Good feller beach this, Billy?”
KING BILLY: “My oaf! Plenty pfeller here close-up brudder belonga me.”
“Wainui”: One of the quickest-growing
trees in the world is the whan, or cork-tree
, r> „ 7e nr m n; , „
(Entelea arborescens) of Mainland. Grven
free soil and good drainage, it will grow to
a height of 12ft. or 15ft. in a year. Thengaio
(Myoporum lactum) runs a close second:
I’ve known one
grow 10ft'. in 12
months. Inciden-
tally, the prevail -
ing idea that M.L.
native shrubs are
all slow growers is
incorrect. The
taupata, karamu,
lacebark, houhere,
mahoe and ran-
giora are all quick
growers in suitable
soil.
* * *
“Akeake”: Maori-
land’s first oak is
to be seen at Wai-
mate North. The
acorn was brought
from Dorset by the
Rev. R. Davis, a
missionary, and
planted in 1824 at
the mission station
at Paihia, Bay of
Islanders. When
the mission house
caught fire Davis’s
first 1 thought was
for the tree, which
he saved by plac-
ing wet blankets
around it, leav-
ing to his fel-
low - missionaries
the job of salving
furniture and
clothing. In 1831
he moved to the
new mission sta-
tion at Waimate
North, and along
with him went the
young oak-tree. It
was' nearly de-
stroyed when sheep
tore away the
barb, but Davis
lopped it down to
within 3ft. of the ground, and it threw out
several shoots that became larjge lateral
branches. Hence its peculiar shape to-day;
for, while it is 50ft.. high and the outer
branches have a circumference of 200 ft., the
trunk is only 7ft. tall, and the girth only
10ft. 9in.
* * * *
“Maeti”: Popular games in the Torres
Strait islands, with both adults and child-
ren, are cat’s cradle and hide-
and-seek. Some very intri-
cate designs are worked out
in the string figures, and
often a man will entertain the
crowd with cat’s-cradle dis-
plays symbolisihg turtle-hunt-
ing, dugong-catching, climbing
cocoanut palms, two men
fighting, etc. The Murray
Islanders especially are very
expert. Ilide-and-seek takes
the form of a treasure hunt.
At frequent intervals, gener-
ally when there is plenty of
moonlight, a party of men or
women will “stow away” vari-
ous articles of food, tobacco,
calico, etc., using trees,
houses, the sand beach and
even the water as hiding-
places. When all is set the
seekers are summoned by
singers accompanied by
drums, who give indication of
where the spoil may be
located by singing of the wind
blowing from a certain quar-
ter, the breeze becoming
stronger as the scent is more
closely pursued. The lucky
ones are rewarded with what
they discover. The other day
I saw a dugong and a live
turtle figuring as prizes in a
game for maidens, in which
handkerchiefs, toilet powder
and suchlike were minor
prizes. Usually men and
women play the game alter-
nately. One doesn’t have to
drop in a bob to kick off with,
and there are no percentages
and commissions < for the
organisers. Even‘the baskets
of yams and mangoes that
gd into the game are passed
over without deductions for
expenses.
“Leo Lear”: The fungus caterpillar that
“1.M.” (B. 8/2/’33) inquires about is com-
mon in the wattle country of western Vic. in
the early winter. The fungus growth is
usually about 6in. long, and the caterpillar
host half that size. The fungus like a
small toadstool, grows from the head of the
grub> and the ]atterj kin ed by the parasite,
gradually merges into it. In due time the
spores of the fungus are eaten by another
generation of grubs, and the peculiar cycle
GIVED ’E 4 REFERENCE.
“Do ’ee know whether that chap ’-pipin' for fob ’ave had much
experience at underground work?”
“Reck'n ’e 'ave, Cap'n. ’E've done brave ’ bit o’ political
organisin’."
starts again. I have never seen them any-
where except in wattle country.
* * * *
“Pick”: As our caravan rounded a hend
of the Timbery Range road (N.S.W.), two
kangaroos worried by a flock of crows loped
across the ravine. Apparently something
hindered the smaller chap. He progressed
haltingly, while his mate, leading ahead,
sometimes bounded back to drive off the
black angels. As the procession neared the
road there came a sudden downward rush
and an eagle zigzagged after the loiterer.
Beating the joey to the earth with vicious
flaps, the hookybeak pounced upon him,
rending with his talons and mauling the
little fellow till a cloud of dust spiralled
about them. With a long spring and
a rapid downward kick the bigger ’roo
sprawled the bird backwards, and a drift of
feathers floated down the gully as he cork-
screwed his way upward again. Wo rounded
up the little cripple and took the jump-back
rabbit-trap off his lacerated foot. He re-
joined his gallant defender waiting on the
range beyond, and together they traversed
the hill, still attended by the crows.
* * *
“Mako”: The ancient Communism of the
Maoris has been revived by the M.L.
depression. In the Tauranga district, where
there are numbers of Maori farm-owners,
largo parties have gone from farm to
farm during the harvesting season, doing
for each other all the necessary work, and
supplying machinery and transport, with no
charge for labor or anything else. The Maori
likes nothing better than a gathering of his
kind, and he doesn’t mind the hard work
entailed by such community efforts.
* * =:• *
“Mundowie”: Queensland has many hot
springs, the most curious being in the bed
of the .Coolgarra Creek, out from Herberton.
The water, as it bubbles up, is hot enough
to cook with, but it rises in a running stream
of cold water. A stranger going into the
creek would get a freeze just above the
spring in cold weather, and be parboiled on
going downstream. The hottest spring is
near the Einasleigh River, a tributary of
the Gilbert. This is surrounded by a huge,
hard mound, the mud accumulation of ages
that has gushed up through a deep fissure.
The basin is always full of boiling water, a
great convenience to the abos., who, from
remote times, have camped in large num-
bers around it and cooked their fish and
meat in a stream that runs from the steam-
ing, natural cauldron to the river. Another
curiosity is a soda spring near the Mulligan
River, the water of which is so highly im-
pregnated that a person plunging into the
pool bounces about in it like a cork. It is
a good place to learn to swim.
FEATHERED THIEVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Their pattern is Autolycus;
They’ve studied, too, beneath
The sympathetic tutelage
Of Turpin and Macheath ;
They’re topnotch modern-business birds
With one clear end in view;
And very few, indeed, can teach —
And none at all can overreach—
The sparrows at the Zoo.
They’re experts at embezzlement;
Authorities on how
To rifle and appropriate;
Their slogan’s “Pinch it now!”
A mob of feathered picaroons,
A bustling pirate crew,
Assiduous to crib and grab,
To filch and pilfer, prig and nab—
The sparrows at the Zoo.
Within their little lexicon
Is no such word as “awe.”
They bicker in the lion’s den,
They steal the tiger’s straw;
Indiff’rent to the elephant,
Undaunted by the gnu,
Without a scruple or a care,
As all-pervasive as the air,
Dodge in and out, hop here and there,
The sparrows at the Zoo.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1860.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE : 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000.
Reserve Fund .. .. .. • ■ 1,000,000
-£2,250,0,00
Reserve Liability of Shareholders.. 1,250,000
£3,500,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
Drafts 01 and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin"
takes your fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for the original.
YOUR CAREER
Unless you have been specially fortune-favored, the success of your
career, so vital to your whole life, is going to depend primarily upon
your own efforts. There may be factors over which you can have no
control, therefore it is the more necessary that you seriously grapple
with those you can yourself govern. Naturally, money must enter into
your plans for to-morrow, but action must be taken to-day if you are
to succeed.
Don’t wait upon so-called “luck.” The Savings Account costs nothing,
pays interest upon your savings, and provides the best possible aid to
' self-help.
Cbmmonwcaltl) Savings Bank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government)
Win. Fowios, of Carlyon’s Hotel, Spencer
Street, Melbourne, offers you this season not
only Victoria’s greatest, refined hotel values
thus : Single Rooms ,
from 4/6 day;
Double from 7/6;
and meals optional
(also at reduced
rates) in Tearooms
or Cafe, and Room
with breakfast
from 6/6 Single or
11/6 Double all
less 10 p.c. if stay-
ing one week or
more; and complete
Board from 10/6
day or 65/- week
L
in addition, if you motor, Win I owles
garages your car free of charge in the note
garage, next door, during your entire stay.
Such value service and convenience ts not
obtainable at any other hotel in Mel-
bourne city. Please write for tanfl; caret,
which gives all information, or state your
requirements and we will gladly quote.
Special rates for clubs, conferences, families,
etc. The Manager, Carlyon’s Hotel, Mel*
bourne, is sufficient address for your letter.
SMOKE-OH!
What the world wants is an armaments
Jeholiday.
# ¥
“Jardine brought off an excellent raight-handed
catch.” — Melb. “ll(.raid.”
He would, bai Jove!
¥ ¥
“His accidents have left Mr. Isaacs wondering
what will happen next. — “Sun.”
A wondering Jew?
¥ ¥
Peace in the East seems to have gone
west.
COOK : “My husband was a great platform speaker, my
dear —he appealed to all classes.”
ANGELA: “Was he a railway porter?”
VENEERS.
“Application has been made to the Tariff Board
for protection for the Australian veneer industry.
— “Herald.”
Count Tootyfrooti, in an interview with
the social reporter of the “Goof,” said it
had been the practice before
the depression to rely on
England for veneer. This
applied especially in the
case of daughters. His
object in coming to Aus-
tralia was to establish a
Veneer Club for the benefit
of social climbers. In his
opinion the Australian
veneer equalled, if it did not
surpass, the overseas article.
His speciality was the extir-
pation of the Australian
accent, and he also proposed
to give classes in Cocktail
Party-giving, the use of
Debrett and the Oxford bleat
(for gents, only).
Mr. Cuthbert Gethecash,
M.L.A.. said that the factory
in which he was concerned
dealt in the “Knighthood”
and “Honors” brand of
veneers. Both these brands
■were well established. He
considered that more harm
than good would be done by
any interference in existing
conditions. Although ven-
eers were only a sideline,
Party Organisation, Ltd.,
might have to go out of busi-
ness if the trade in veneers,
which was valuable finan-
cially, was lost. There was
a brisk demand for the J.P.
veneer at present.
H. M.
¥ ¥
Japan and China are still
demonstrating the meaning
of perpetual commotion.
MORE CLASS DISTINCTION.
“The use by officers of the ‘mediaeval’ term
‘common,’ as applied to lodging-houses, has aroused
the ire of Sydney City Council aldermen. ‘They
regard it as class distinction.’ ”
Uproar prevailed at last night’s meeting
of the Slugville Municipal Council, when
the Mayor, referring to the
new incinerator, said that
the rubbish “would be taken
down and out through a
chute to a low-level fur-
nace.” Labor aldermen con-
demned as contemptible the
use of the term “down and
out.” It was a gratuitous
insult to members of the
community who through no
fault of their own, and be-
cause of the present mori-
bund system of Capitalism
favored by the Mayor, were
forced to accept the dole.
Aid. Snorter accused the
Mayor of deliberately con-
necting the word “rubbish”
with “down and out,” thus
implying that the underdog
was, in his estimation, so
much dirt. Coupled with
the epithet “low,” the insult
wa s unpardonable, and
served to reveal that a sec-
tion of the council was an
enemy of the 'working class,
and reactionaries of the
first water. Only a mongrel
cur like the Mayor would
thus take an opportunity of
hitting at a class unable to
defend itself.
Further discussion was
terminated by the arrival of
the police.
S. W. K.
¥ ¥
HIS FIRST INNINGS.
Blobbs, S.M.. was lectur-
ing Wilkins, the wifebeater.
“You have blackened your
wife’s eye, broken her nose,
bruised her legs and dented
her skull. All within the
first week of marriage. It’s
infamous,” he thundered., pounding the bench
vigorously: “it’s cricket!.... Six months.”
o. w. w.
¥ *
Why can’t more of the world’s rulers go
straight?
¥ ¥
The Japs keen knocking Chinks off Man-
churia.
The early-in-the-morning bird catches the
cry of “You worm I”
¥ ¥
GIFTS.
“He never srave me anything in his life!”— W.ife
in N.S.W. Divorce. Court.
Her husband intercepted her later. “So
much for your so-called sense of gratitude!
he railed. “When we were kids together,
long before we thought of marriage, didn’t I
give you the whooping Cough? When we
were sweethearts didn’t I give you the oppor-
tunity of walking anywhere I wanted to
go or paying the fares yourself? Didn’t
“What a romantic spot! Wouldn’t it be just ideal for.
smuggling?”
"Ernest! Don’t be vulgar!”
I give you my name and the privilege of
paying the Registrar? And afterwards
didn’t I give you 14 children, innumerable
black eyes, the needle and the bills to pay?
Didn’t I eventually give you
the kick-out?
“And haven’t I given you
grounds for divorce now? I
repeat, woman, where’s your
gratitude?”
M.
•¥*
INSPIRATION.
“The Tests are over, and
something’s got to be done to
save the ‘Blah,’ ” the circula-
tion manager gloomed.
“There’s the Doncaster and
Cup coming on” began
the advertising manager.
“No more racing competi-
tions,” snapped the C.M.
“I’ve got it,” suddenly ex-
claimed the sporting editor,
“an entirely new and original
competition. State in not
more than 1500 words ‘Why
I Read the “Blah” ’; here’s
something to interest the
whole family. Tommy would
tell of a marble competition
he nearly, won ; Hilda would
plump for the film news;
dad”
“Ass!” sneered the C.M.
“Do you imagine we want to
uncover the innermost
thoughts of the mental
cripples who buy our rag?
Did it ever occur to you that
even they might be led into
asking themselves ‘Why do I
buy the “Blah”? Yes, why
the devil do I?’ ”
A boy entered and handed
a proof to the C.M. “Hoo-
ray !” he exclaimed joyously.
“A Westralian State lottery
has just been inaugurated,
making Adelaide the only
Australian city without one.
Here’s something we can run a competition
on —thirty bob for the best answer to the
question, ‘Why Does Adelaide Lag Behind?’ ”
¥ ¥
THE ’STRUTH IN ADVERTISING.
“Farm 8J acres, nice home, for sale. A living
in beautiful surroundings, away from politics and
taxation. See us about this.” — Advt.
After inspection I xvas satisfied that per-
fect freedom from politics and taxation
existed and that the surroundings were
beautiful. But, brothers, it was not an
ordinary farm. I would prefer to describe
it as a plantation carrying a very heavy crop
of —tombstones.
McM.
IT SHOULDN’T BE ALLOWED.
In almost any gathering to which Aus-
tralians crowd you meet the bloke who
snorts and says “It shouldn’t be allowed!’
Not long-drawn faces such as he and all
his kindred wear are numbered in the count-
less things he simply cannot bear! All, how
I loathe the dark-souled brute who glooms
like some black cloud on things that other
folk enjoy! “It shouldn’t be allowed!”
He haunts my favorite beach and bar; at
ev’ry turn I hear his acid comment on my
joys resounding in my ear. And every time
I’d like to take him firmly by the nose and
make him face a mirror that his evils will
expose, exclaiming, “Sir, your envious heart,
your visage like a shroud —it’s things like
these, my worthless friend, that shouldn't be
allowed!” H.
ZOO.
“Porcupine-skin is now fashionable for women’s
wear.”
Aow the hedgehog’s epidermis makes a
fashionable fur, Miss
(Also Mother) clothes her skin and
rounded joints
With his. spiky armor-plating. Clever
Frenchmen are creating
Frills and fUrbelows that clearly hare
their points.
Madame Nature, rich and lavish, gives the
spoils Eve loves to ravish;
Beast and bird, and creeping thing all aid
her style;
For her stockings—sheer or netted —to a
worm she is indebted,
For her handbag to a knobby crocodile,
: As she walks abroad my lady has a feather
in her cady—
’Turns a songbird’s rudder-plane till his
decease.
She is very smart and tony in her rabbit-
skin—true cony —
And her jumper used to be a woolly fleece.
Passers-by say “She looks ripping,” though
the shoes in which she’s tripping
Served some unsuspecting snake as over-
coat. ;
And she doesn’t need, to quarrel with the
bill, for it’s a, moral
That, the whole account was footed by a
goat!
T. P. B.
GRAVEN IMAGE.
J do not yearn for carven sylphs wrought by
the hands of masters;
Marbles from Paros leave me cold, and so
do alabasters. '
Others may choose the chiselled charms of
Greek girls dead and gone —
Give me the round and silver plaques with
George’s head thereon!
P. O. M. C.
NOT THE SAME QUEEN.
You must wake and call me early, call me
early, mother dear,
Such a host of slick reporters from the
papers will be here;
And the camera lads are coming, too, from
near and far away,
For I am the scoop of the day, mother, I
am the scoop of the day.
There’s many a hot divorce, mother, but none
so hot as mine,
With all its sultry episodes and my co-
respondents nine.
And just you get this straight, mother, I'm ,
ho blushing Queen o’ the May,
But the red-hot news of the day, mother,
the red-hot news of the day!
J.
RADIO FAN’S LOVE SONG.
“Owing to the reduced Defence vote all military
wireless sets must now be sent to Melbourne to be
repaired.”
(Air, “4 Love You,” popular about ten
years ago.)
I love you though your battery’s dying
slowly,
And you splutter every time I press your
key;
Though the heat has got the best of your
transformer
And you’ve become as useless as can be.
I love you though your aerial lead-in’s
faulty;
I love you though your guys are frayed
and old;
“Vould you marry my daughter if she had no money?”
“Yeth, of course I would.”
“Veil, den, you are either a damn fool or a liar. Get
out!”
You’ve made me use words that were best
unspoken,
And yet I love you dearly while I scold.
I love you though one valve has got a hot
spot,
And I have often tried in rain to send;
I love you though I know that soon I'll lose
you,
And you’ll he sent to Melbourne marked
TO MEND.
X530.


/
0
i
'
/
The Improved
Duxbac
WATER-PROOF CARTRIDGES
m
Hf
mm
All-British
£
REED
/04-%0
With the advent of The Improved “Duxbac” Waterproof Cartridge—the latest production of
the Nobel factories the keen duck shooter is now safeguarded against damage to his ammu-
nition by damp or water, for with “Duxbac” Wet Makes No Difference.
Duxbac Cartridges are now waterproofed under a new scientific and thoroughly
tested process that makes them impervious to moisture.
Loaded first AND THEN WATERPROOFED, results in not only the paper
around the shells being rendered waterproof, but the turnover also—
thus they are securely sealed against damp or wet.
Ballistics have had particular care and can be relied upon to
give results unexcelled by any other Cartridge.
Loaded with the World-famed Smokeless Diamond Powder and
Chilled Shot .
Obtainable from
all Dealers
throughout Australia.
G
n
*
M
OBEIj
ALWAYS RELIABLE
Ob! This Awful Pain
Just Cripples He
Sharp, sudden pains, stiff, swollen
joints, make you want to call out
your signal of pain every time you
move them. If you are a victim of
bad backache, that is so down-
dragging and weakening, or rheu-
matic twinges that worry you day
and night, the cause is Kidney
Trouble.
Thousands of people are to-day
walking about in dreadful pain who
could end that pain for good if they
would only take the simple advice
given here.
What you must do to end your pain
and get back real strength and vigour is
prompt the kidneys to healthy action, and
there is no better, no quicker, surer means
of doing this than by starting with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills to-day. Take them
regularly for a day or two and see how
much better you feel. In 24 hours you see
and know how good they are. Persevere
and be pain-free—feeling and looking years
younger.
No ridiculous cure-all properties are
claimed for De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills. They are made for the one purpose
only—that of ending the pain and weakness
caused by Kidney Trouble. They give in-
stant relief.
You can trust this remedy for
Rheumatism
Kidney Trouble
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills will
not only rid you of your pain, but their
splendid tonic action will bring back youthful
vigour and vitality.
For over 40 years they have been tried
and trusted, and every day comes more
voluntary testimony to this simple, inexpen-
sive remedy. If you will only take these
pills regularly, dangerous kidney trouble,
chronic backache, agonising rheumatism will
be ended and health restored.
Sold only in the white, blue and gold
box—they are never sold loose—price 3/6, or
larger, more economical size, 6/6. Don’t let
constant pain cripple you a moment longer
—get your supply of De Witt’s Pills now.
» m
m--
m
ft
De WITT’S
KIDN£¥ and bladder pills
Splendid fbr men and women
at all times—and children,
tool Get a supply to-day .


BRITAIN—MaKe Your Tour Complete
The Highways of Romance and the Historical Cathedral Cities are all awaiting you. The route is by the
L. N. E. R.
Up to Scotland by the “Flying Scotsman” — 7i hours’ non-stop run.
LONDON TO EDINBURGH. Restaurant, Hairdressing Saloon, Bookstall on the train.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH-EASTERN RAILWAY FOR LUXURY, SPEED. COMFORT.
Apply for full particulars and illustrated pamphlets to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
the SCENIC
PLAYGROUND |
of the PACIFIC
Here—in this fascinating land—lie deep-sea fishing
grounds, lakes and rivers teeming with trout, thermal valleys
with their spouting geysers and boiling pools, Maori "pahs,"
mountain chateaux, beautiful sounds, fiords, glaciers and
mountain peaks—all within a few days' travel of each other.
Write for complete information, suggested
tours, fares, etc.
LETTER OF CREDIT TOURS.
Genuine tourist visitors can obtain
travel tickets, accommodation, etc.,
at will in New Zealand, FREE OF
EXCHANGE, by booking with any
N.Z, Government Tourist Bureau in
Australia,
è
5.7,. Government Tourist Bureau,
Box 365 F, Martin Place, Sydney,
and at 59 William Street, Melbourne.
Please send me illustrated leaflets'
and full details of a holiday in New
Zealand.
NAME - w-
ADDRESS.
4 f
I
vV
A
V .s • v' £&
i
>-
So
*.
mSS&WSSS
1111111
lillll!;
IMifflffi
Pi
ii
mmm
m
AMERICA
The World Between Two Seas
r PHE castanets of Old Spain still
clack in California . . . San
Francisco’s Chinatown holds the
scented breath of the Orient ... in
New Orleans Bouillabaisse is served
with a Gallic accent . . . northern
soil is tilled by scions of Viking
forebears . . . while over New Eng-
land’s hedgerows linger the tradi-
tions of Old England.
Diverse origins, yet a united people.
Diverse scenic marvels, united in
beauty.
Providing the fullest opportunity to
see all the diverse aspects of Amer-
ica is the surpassing service of her
railways. Frequent trains in every
direction —comfort assured by the
most modern appointments—cour-
teous, personal attention that facili-
tates every arrangement. You may
cover an extensive itinerary at sur-
prisingly low cost.
Plan your visit to England to include
America, reached swiftly on the new,
modern Matson-Oceanic liners “Mari-
posa” and “Monterey.” Leave from
either Melbourne or Sydney. En route
to San Francisco or Los Angeles, you
stop at New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa and
Hawaii.
MATSON-OCEANIC
LINES
AMERICAN RAILWAYS
TRAVEL AND INFORMATION BUREAU
12 Bridge St., Sydney. Tel. B 7981-3
3R-2A
Where moun-
tain climbers
are in thek
Below: New Year's Day cele-
bration in San Francisco's
Chinatown-T-like a scene in old
Peiping.
« *
I||||
&fry.
W: '••< v
rli
? |% . il. •
M *
m
*m
<& *«&;&:' V
<s
8? I
* i#
v' n
•< .•?■ if
:S¥ : iliilpj:l|*
x\. &■: '
x- x«v;
BOOKS
READ THIS LIST CAREFULLY —YOU MAY SEE
SOMETHING YOU NEED.
POST FREE
ALL BOOK WANTS SUPPLIED.
Muscle Control, by
Maxick. 54 full-page
illus., 5/G; Tricks with
Cards, by Prof. Hoff-
mann. 2/9; The Best of
Golf, by “Some Best of
Golfers,” 3/9;, What to
Draw and How to Draw
It, 4/9; another What
to Draw and How to
Draw It, 4/9; Outboard
Motor Boat Book (a
Modern Collection of Speed Engines),
16/3; Elements of Chess, by Alfred
Emery, with Diagrams, 2/6; Double
Pack Patience, Selected Games, by
Basil Dalton, 1/5; Patience Problems
and Puzzles, by Basil Dalton, 1/5;
Wireless Really Ex
plained, by P. J. Risdon.
entirely revised, 1/9;
Wireless Receiving
Devices, How to Get Best
Reception, by P. J.
FLOWERING
WILDERNESS
By John Galsworthy.
His latest book—is rich
in emotion, and sees
deep into the human
heart. Price, 7/4.
Risden, 1/0; Motor
Cycles and How to Man-
age Them, 25th Ed.. 4/1;
Moratorium Handbook,
the Act fully explained,
by R. E. Tebbutt (soli-
citor), 6/9; Menus Made
Easy, by Nancy Lake,
Indispensable to Cooks, ,6/4; Art of
Canning, Bottling and Preserving Fruit,
by Mrs. Corrie, 2/8; Commonsense
Cookery Book, compiled by Cookery
Teachers’ Assoc.. 2/3; Fowler’s Mech-
anics’ and Machinists’ Pocket Book,
1933, 3/3; Fowler’s Elec-
trical Engineers’ Pocket
Book, 1933, 5/3; Mechan-
ical World Year Book,
1933, 2/10; Lawn Tennis
In Ten Lessons, by C.
Pette Triscott. 2/6; Bil-
liards and Other Pool
Games, by Rolf M.
Danery, 2/6; Masonic
Foundations, Lectures,
Speeches and Toasts for
Masonic Occasions, 5/3;
HELL’S DOORWAY
By F. J. Thwaites,
author of Broken
Melody.
Revised cheap edition.
Cloth 4/10. Paper 2/9.
Your Guide to Correct
English.
COLLINS'
NATIONAL
DICTIONARY
and ENCYCLOPEDIA
510 Pages.
40,000 References
and 65 Pages of Supple-
ments, including a Business
Dictionary, Motoring,
Wireless and the World in
Figures.
Price, 5/-
N.S.W. STATE
LOTTERY TICKETS
Clients’ Agent'.
Remit in Australian cur-
rency for Ticket, result
slip and postage, 5/10.
The Freemason's Craft,
by Stanley M. Hiels
(P.M. 4941), 8/10; Mono-
poly of Credit, by C. H.
Douglas, of Social Credit
Fame, 6/8; Contract in
Ten Minutes, by Ely
Culbertson, t/8; Contract
Bridge at a Glance, by
Ely Culbertson, 5/-;
Contract Bridge, with
Revised Scoring, by Ena
Burrows, 2/2; House’s Canary Manual,
2/6; Canary Breeding for Beginners,
by Claude St. John, 2/6; Diseases of
Cage Birds—the Amateur’s Guide, -2/6;
Tuning and Repairing Pianos, by
Charles Babbington, 2/6; Adjusting
and Repairing Violins,
’Cellos, etc., by Arthur
Broadley, 2/6; Toy Mak-
ing for Amateurs, by
Home Mechanic, 2/-;
Staining and Polishing,
DEVIL’S CUB
By Georgette Heyer.
A story of lovely ladies
and handsome, if some-
times wicked, men.
Price, 7/4.
including Varnishing
and Wood Finishing,
by William Fairham.
6/10; This Age of Plenty.
Its Problems and Solu-
tions, by C. M. Hattersley,
5/2; Auction Bridge Play
and Problems, by A. E.
Manning Foster, 5/9; Practical Ven-
triloquism, by Robert Ganthony, 3/3;
Australian Recipe Book for Sweet
Making, over 150 Recipes, 2/8; Tail
Waggers, an Ideal Book for Dog
Lovers, bv A. Croxton Smith. 1/9;
Bulletin Bffok of Humor-
ous Verse, 1/2; Goldfish
Care and Culture for
Aust.. Conditions, 1/2;
Double Bed Dialogues.
Cloth 2/3, Paper 1/2;
Universal Cookery Book.
1000 Tested Recipes, 1/3;
Furniture Repairing for
Amateurs, 1/11; Com-
plete Guide to Brick-
laying, by T. J. Forbes,
1/5.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Booksellers, Librarians, Tobacconists, Stationers, Newsagents, Kodak Suppliers,
MARKET AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED.
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance.
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: It. V. BOOTH.
HOWARD HOTEL, LONDON
NORFOLK STREET, STRAND, W.C.2.
In the hub of London life, close to all Theatres.
Yon may pay high prices, but you cannot obtain more perfect service, better cuisine,
finer wines, more comfortable and artistic rooms. The private bath rooms and suites
are definitely unequalled. Yet you can have bedroom, bath, and full breakfast tor
12/6. Of course, every room has central heat, hot and cold water and telephone.
These are necessities. It is the additional luxuries you find at the Howard which
you will appreciate. Many thousands of pounds have been again spent on new
decorative effects, making the Howard
AN HOTEL OF RARE BEAUTY
Send for Illustrated Booklet to “The Bulletin,” Sydney.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
coundess delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the prin-
cipal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL
WHITE STAR-ABERDEEN
Joint Service to
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
V M
• e
,«v —


Awjidot
At
OiRCIHAPCS*
Has a Greater
Circulation and a
Greater Number of
Home Deliveries
Than Any Queensland Daily
Newspaper.
The
Sunday Mail
Brisbane
This great newspaper goes into the homes of
the people of Brisbane when they have leisure
to read. It is a journal of character and
distinction and presents features that appeal
to every member of every household. If you
want to fully cover the Brisbane market at
small cost, this is your paper.
Rates and other particulars from
„ . ROBT. JACKSON,
,72 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81522.
i
Plum Razor Guard
THE PLUM RAZOR GUARD, easily adjusted, tits §in., fin. and §i
Lasts a lifetime. JNo blades to buy. 3/6 each, post free.
&f>e PLUM RAZOR
i. blades.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylo. Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 each
Real Ivory Handle 21/- each
(Strongly-made, grained leather hinged case
provided free with each razor.)
Seven-day sets, Seven Razors in Oak Case—
Black 85/-, Xylo. 100/-, Ivory 140/-
ALL POST FREE.
PLUM RAZORS are supplied. in two widths
—tin. and' fin.
Each
>r set ready for use and guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of charge.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuct
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell. ‘
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridje Street. Sydney.
e
w
ŵ
THE
msn
I DIRECT MEDIUM IQ WOMEN ]
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
THE
STUFF TO GIVE'EM
MEGGITT'S LINSEED MEAL
METHODS OF A TWEED FARMER.
“Jethro Tull”: Without stall feeding of
dairy cows and the rotational system of
grazing, which it has become the fashion-to
advocate, a Tweed (N.S.W.) farmer, A. R.
Grant, of Uki, has made good. Mr. Grant
was dairying six years ago, and returns were
not what they should have been. His second
innings began sixteen months ago, and lie
was not too proud to learn from former
mistakes.
His first step was to procure the right
type of cows, the producing type; these were
put under test. The next step was to pro-
vide enough pasture for their requirements
and to obtain the most from. every acre.
Rubbish was stacked and burnt; ferns re-
ceived due attention. H'ow well this policy
paid may be judged from the returns for the
twelvemonth to December, which was par-
ticularly dry—34in., whereas the average for
eleven years is close to 50in. In previous
years the run of 140 acres carried 66
milkers, young stock being run elsewhere.
To-day the farm has 43 milkers, 13 calves
and heifers and a registered Jersey bull.
Though the previous herd produced up to
13001 b. of butter in a good month, its
average does not compare with that of this
smaller herd of grade Jerseys. " -
During the twelvemonth in question the 43
milkers produced 99811 b. of commercial butter,
a herd average of 2321 b., with a test in the
proximity of 5 p.c: There was an average
number of 34 milking each month: of the
total number milking, 32 were on their first
calf for the greater part of the year.
This farmer is a firm believer in culling.
He has no desire to increase his numbers,
and each year the older and less profitable
cows will make way for the progeny of those
known to produce. Neither will these culls
be passed on to less fortunate farmers as pro-
ducing stock; their end is the butcher’s block
after speying. Production is his aim, and
with the pure-bred stock he has he hopes to
establish a reputation for good cattle known
to produce off the grass.
Except for a few acres of kikuyu grass,
the pasture consists of paspalum and white
clover, which keep the stock going through
most of the year. No additional winter
feed was provided; but the bulk of the ration
consisted of autumn-grown and winter-dried
paspalum. The problem of additional winter
feed is receiving attention, but more from
the dry-cow’s (Consideration than from the
milker’s.
Fern eradication on this farm has been an
education in itself. There was no haphazard-
ness about the way this was carried out.
Regular brushings were commenced three
years ago—in November, February and (in
obstinate places) again in June. These were
continued until thp grass had sown itself in
amongst the ferns, and the cattle travelling
after it treated the young fern in such a
manner that chance of its spreading is out
of the question. With a. final brushing
this year the fern will be left tio the tender
mercies of the stock, Kikuyu grass was
planted in a number of places, but it failed
to live up to its reputation as a fern-
eradicator, appearing to lose its low, smother-
ing habit and taking to climbing. One pad-,
dock fattened fifteen cows before brushing;
twelve months later, after two brushings,
it fattened 25 head.
Summarising this man’s operations, we find
no great capital outlay, but a marked im-
provement in the farm, his cattle and his
returns. And all’ this due to forethought,
enthusiasm and industry. Later there will
be small top-dressing trials, and perhaps a
sown crop or some such feed to check the
fall still obvious in the butter-fat when the
grass becomes a little dry. As the next item,
pigs are receiving attention. Here, as in
the case of the cows, the right type of
animal is sought.
PALATABILITY OF GRASSES.
“R.X.8.”; This depends on the plant
foods the land can supply, so much so that
the list given by “U. Murray” (B. 15/2/’33)
could be completely reversed in three areas
I know. If stock is ignoring some grasses,
it is because they are unpalatable. When
beasts are hungry they will eat any grass.
The secret of palatability is in the avail-
able supply of phosphates. That can be
proved by burning off. Ash is rich in phos-
phates, and the new growth of grasses that
stock ignored before the burn-off wall be
eaten readily. In Maoriland the Depart-
ment of Agriculture put down some hay
trials. Before conclusions could be made
a mob of cows broke into the paddock. They
tried every plot before settling down to one
that had been treated with 3cwt. of super,
to the aci’e —and cleaned it right, out. For
a week they were allowed the run of plots
that had no super., but they only picked
about and trampled them down uneaten.
Spell a paddock for three months in
twelve, and dress it with 3cwt. of super, per
acre per annum, and you treble its feeding
area. That’s my conclusion, anyway.
FASPALUM SEED.
“E.11.M.”: Harvesting of paspalum seed
is in full swing about the Northern Rivers
(N.S.W.), and the quality of the haud-
shaken variety—seed gathered while the
grass is growing—is excellent. Protracted
dry and wet periods have taken the usual
bright-green color from the seed, but buyers
who purchase on color need have no appre-
hension about the quality. Seed sweated
from the stalks of grass cut and stacked
is in some places still mixed with hand-
shaken seed. Sweated seed has little or no
kernel, and consequently its germinating
quality is nil.
The most trustworthy way of testing
quality is to place a few seeds on a table
or board and use the blade of a small pen-
knife on them. Good seed will crack under
pressure of the blade; inferior seed will
divide without sound.
IN DEFENCE OF SILAGE.
“McNoon”: “W.D.Mc.” (B. 8/2/’33) has
no use for silage. , He is in a very small
minority. H'ere in Victoria many progres-
sive dairy-farmers are going in for it, and
those in my locality report excellent results.
I have recently seen several stacks and one
pit of grass ensilage opened. All showed
splendidly cured silage, which can be fed
either in bails or paddock. Grass silage
retains its natural sappiness and nutriment,
and the making of it can be carried out
irrespective of _ weather conditions, which
cannot be done in the harvesting of meadow
hay.
And one ton of oaten chaff or clover hay
is not worth three tons of silage. A friend
experimenting with silage and grass hay,
fed alternately from one pasture—mostly
sub.-clover and rye-grass—found that the
milk yield from his 36 cows decreased by
approximately 9 gallons in a couple of day's
when they were taken off silage and fed on
hay. This loss was regained when silage-
feeding was resumed.
POLLED ANGUS CATTLE.
“Tombong”; Like everyone who has kept
these cattle, I have been delighted to see
long-overdue appreciation coming their way
in the _ M.0.L.-department. One virtue of
pre-eminent importance to the dairyman
who is able to rear his own calves has not
been mentioned: I refer to the extraordin-
ary power the P.A. bull has in covering up
evidences of mongrelism in the haphazard
dairy herd, with strains of Jersey, Ayrshire,
Frisian and all sorts. From such a medley
that bull will turn out a line of calves that
will look nearly, if not quite, pure-bred, and
will be - of first-class fattening quality—
thrifty, nuggety and (for poddies) early-
maturing.
And what is also of great importance to
the dairyman—these bulls will give a higher
percentage of calves than, perhaps, any
other kind.
RED POLLS SELL WELL.
“Marshland”: As a breeder of Red Polls
in South Queensland, I have naturally been
following with interest recent M.O.L. con-
tributions regarding poley cattle. Hitherto
I have hesitated to write, as my remarks
might be considered prejudiced; but I feel
sure that > account sales of stock sold at
Cannon Hill by the Primary Producers’ Co-
op. are pertinent to’ the controversy, since
they represent the butchers’ opinions. Three
trucks of steers reblised the following prices:
6 Horned, per head .. .. . . £650
6 » 6 15 0
II Polls 6 12 6
10 » » 615 0
1° >. » 615 0
9 » .• 7 5 0
8 „ „ 710 0
The beasts were sent at the same time from
the-same paddock.
BRAHMAN CATTLE FOR N.Q.
“Rocky”: The decision of four Queens-
land pastoralists to import a number of pure-
bred Zebu cattle from the U.S.A. is of great
importance to the North. According to the
Australian investigator, R. B. Kelley, who
returned from Texas last year, improvement
in results has been marked since the ranches
tnere introduced Brahman blood, and the
same thing may happen here. In other
words, the experiment may lead to the
development of a type of cattle more suited
to tropical conditions than any British breed,
at the same time producing meat suitable
for London requirements.
In Queensland Zebu-cross cattle liavt
proved hardy, tick-resistant and quick fat-
teners. Let it be admitted candidly thai
the pure-bred British bullock is the better
beast for Australian conditions south of the
tropics. But there is a lot of country in
the North which is too severe for British
breeds. It may suit the Brahman; all the
better for Australia if it does.
THREE NOXIOUS WEEDS.
“Tanta-Tyga”: Every man on the land
should be able to tell St. John’s
bladder campion and convolvulus ( arvcnsis )
when he sees them. Agricultural societies
could help by cultivating a plant or two in
pots or kero.-tins and exhibiting them peri-
odically, taking care not to let the seed cap-
sules mature. All three plants are propa-
gated by their root systems, and therefore
cultivation will spread them.
St. John’s wort has a pretty star-like
yellow flower, fringed at the points of the
petals. It produces abundance of seed. Stock
do not eat it. It will penetrate the lower
soil to a depth of Bft. and will come up
several feet from the parent plant. When
growing in a hay crop and the seed has
matured it may be carried hundreds of miles
from its source; I know at least one locality
where the plant was introduced by a buck-
jumping show.
Bladder campion grows in a compact mass,
and gradually extends slowly from the
parent plant, unless disturbed by cultiva-
tion ; when this happens, every par-
ticle of root will become another parent.
I daily pass a South Aus. garden where the
occupier has been trying for years to eradi-
cate it; on the boundary it has passed out
under a hard footpath, Bft. wide, and is
growing on the stony water-table in a street.
It may be identified in its early growing
stage by the purplish colorisation of the
plantlet where it emerges from the soil, and,
when it reaches the flowering stage, by the
bladder-like sheath below the flower similar
to the cape-gooseberry covering. It is an
abundant seeder.
The third nuisance has a convolvulus
flower, of a delicate white tinged with pink,
and is pretty enough to tempt those who do
not know its evil propensities to include it
in the flower patch. It has the bad habit
of climbing the stems of plants in cereal
crops, and in good land may stifle the crop.
Like the bladder campion it roots deeply,
and every small piece of the root will make
a new plant.
Chlorate of sodium is effective in eradicat-
ing these and other noxious weeds. It must be
persisted with every time any growth shows
above ground, otherwise all' previous appli-
cations will be wasted. On a large area it
is a costly remedy, but may be cheap in
the end.
“THIS WORRY OF WHEAT.”
Such is the title of a most thoughtful and
interesting little book which has been
written by T. H. Bath and published (at
a shilling:) from the Co-operative Printing
Works, Perth. No . man is better qualified
than the author to attempt a general sur-
vey of the wheat problem from the Austra-
lian standpoint. He has studied it from
every angle. He was Minister of Lands
(and he could have been Premier) ; he is a
practical farmer; he lias been identified for
years with the Westralian co-operative
movement and the voluntary wheat pool; he
was a delegate to the International Wheat
Pool Conference at Kansas • City in 1927;
he is familiar with the Canadian wheat-
growing districts and with the views of
many Canadian farmers, and—a diligent
reader all his life —he has collected a great
deal of pertinent information at second hand.
A journalist before he turned farmer, he
writes crisply and has a reflective mind.
In 1898 “Sir William Crookes startled
the world with his prophecy of impending
starvation.” “The U.5.A.,” lie said to the
British Association for the Advancement of
Science, “will within a generation consume
all the wheat grown within its borders and
will be driven to import”; Canada could
not put more than 12 million acres under
wheat (it cropped 24 million acres in 1928) ■
“the prospective supply of wheat from
Argentine and Uruguay has been greatly
overrated”; as for Australia, “the yield
falls to such an extent as to cause Euro-
peans to wonder why the pursuit of wheat-
raising is continued.” Mr. Bath attributes
to this luckless prediction “much of the loss
which wheatgrowers are suffering to-day”;
“the effect still lingers in the minds of a
section of agricultural advisers of wheat-
growing countries.” But only a section:
Sir John Russell, “two scientists of the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture,” and
Sir Albert Humphries are quoted as recog-
nising that “Grow More Wheat” campaigns
and even measures for improving the bak-
ing quality of wheat are senseless unless
the commercial interests of the producers
are placed first. “One wishes earnestly that
this attitude of mind had prevailed among
Ministers and agricultural advisers in Aus-
tralia during the past 10 years,” is the
Westralian’s comment.
Mr. Bath gives a short but very instruc-
tive account of the situation in the produc-
ing and consuming countries and reviews the
costly devices employed in the U.S.A.,
Canada l , Australia and Argentina to give the
grower a better return. He secs no hope
for Australian farmers in increased local
consumption (“the Australian figure has
remained constant, around 5 bushels per
capita”), in politics (“Australian wheat-
growers run through the whole gamut from
indifferent acquiescence to disordered and
pointless denunciation”), in direct action of
the sort to which a few hundred West-
ralian settlers resorted at the end of
the year (“see where direct action has
landed the seamen, wharf-laborers and coal-
miners”) or in export to China and neigh-
boring countries. “A depreciated currency
has assisted Australia to gain the major
share of the wheat trade to Eastern Asia,
but that greater trade has only been avail-
able at a ruinous price.” The plan he pro-
poses is co-operation, friendly co-operation
among Australia, the U.S.A., Canada and
Argentina, designed, in the first place, to
restrict production in all four countries and
secure united action in marketing the accu-
mulated surplus. What has been done by
the Norwegian whalers and by the sugar
producers of nine countries (“the sugar
agreement has been in force for two years,
and is being honestly adhered to”) can be
done in respect of wheat. For the rest, “I
can see no good reason why local consumers
should not pay at least the price at which
exported wheat is sold overseas without
deduction of freight and charges, since if
wheat had to be imported for their use the
cost would include these charges.”
SEED POTATOES.
“R.X.8.”; Many N.S.W. potato-growers
are reducing their incomes by bad seed-
selection methods. Pig potatoes, marbles
and other rejects cannot be expected to pro-
duce a big crop. Neither can seed that has
been pitted or bagged, or is subjected to the
absurd process of desprouting, or wiping off
shoots that have started in storage.
The best seed will be that selected in the
field, because of the clean and healthy nature
of the plant, and dug after the flowering, but
before the haulms have lost their sap. It
should be stored in trays to green properly.
A box factory will make trays for 50s. a
hundred, and they will last for years. Stored
in trays, in a light and airy shed, the dor-
mant surface of the spud goes green, the
diatase,, or ferment, renders the starch
available for growth, and sprouting starts.
None of that happens to bagged or pitted
stuff. Seed stored in trays produces one or
two short, green shoots at the top of the
tuber. Bagged and pitted seed has a number
of weak and white sprouts that are sure to
be broken taking them out of the stores.
Once in trays the seed is safe, as the only
handling is in planting.
A crop of trayed sets will mature earlier,
and can be lifted sooner to catch the market,
but, if weather demands it, planting can be
delayed. A heavier crop is certain from
trayed seed. One good N.S.W. grower, who
tried both ways this .season, admits the dif-
ference to be Sh tons per acre. The weight
of the crop is proportionate to the weight of
seed per acre, too, the reason being that
the first shoots are dependent on the seed
for nourishment. Therefore, the larger the
seed, the better the start, especially if the
season starts dry. A safe way would be
to plant sets that are 2oz. or more in weight,
provided they have healthy eyes or sprouts.
If cutting is done, and if decent-sized seed
has been selected, it is economical to cut;
make the sets as uniform in size as possible,
and remember that it is not essential that
a set should have more than one eye or
sprout. But cutting must only be done just
before planting. The cut surface can be
dried in the sun or dipped in lime, but the
best way to treat it is to dip it in wood
ashes.
DATE-GROWING IN AUSTRALIA.
“R.V.R.” (Perth) : Whatever may be the
case in western N. S. Wales, there are three
districts in Westralia very suitable for date-
growing, viz., around the mouths of the
Gascoyne, Ashburton and De Grey rivers, in
the north. Water can be obtained by sinking
and pumping, and climate and soil are both
very suitable for the Algerian variety. Odd
trees, in fact, are growing. The difliculty
is the long wait for a crop; and unless
some scheme can be evolved for financing
the grower till his plantation comes into
bearing, the enterprise is unlikely to be
undertaken. So long also as this State is so
( Continued on page 26.)


Send for specimen copy of
“Fruit Culture and Small Farming.”
Monthly 5/- per annum.
16 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
.
.
A real golf shoe!
Designed in a practical way to
give the service you want. It’s
flexible for active wear.
The long-lasting, rugged sole
protects the foot over the
roughest going. The upper,
shaped in an arch, like the instep,
never cramps the foot muscles
or strains against them. And it
is smartly brogued, making the
Abbey Golf Shoe look the part.
Three widths per size
Ensuring exact fit. . . .you can
choose narrow, medium or wide
in each full and half size.
ORDER BY POST: State width
as well as size and ask, also, for
the correct Abbey Polish (6d.
per tin), or a compact cleaning
outfit, 2/6.
TAN CALF 43/6
BLACK CALF . . . . 35/-
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
316 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW ADDRESS
IN GEORGE STREET—No. 316
ALMOST DIRECTLY OPPOSITE
THE OLD STORE.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
ABBEY, BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FPL 323
Position Wanted.
'T’O any dairy-property owner who intends
to improve a farm or requires expert
management of it, a young man of 24 can
offer very capable service for a moderate
income. He has had • exceptional experience
among dairy stock (also stud) and has un-
doubted ability to control and/or improve a
farm. Any necessary references can be given.
G.P.S. education in N.S.W. No proposition
entailing hard work would be disregarded.
Write ARDEN, C/o Free Press. Tatura, V.
Here They Are !
The Best
SWINGLETREES
■ Obtainable!
HTHERE’S no need to experiment
if you want the best Swingle-
I trees obtainable to-day. Fifty
years ago, Furpby’s All-Steel
Swingletrees were the best—and
the same is true to-day! They are
best because they combine the
maximum strength with minimum
weight, the one-horse swings being
' only 121 b. They are made from
sheet steel, with ends and centres
that can be replaced when worn—
that’s why Furpliy Swingletrees
outlast any other make.
One-horse Swings . . 7/6 each
f.o.r. Shepparton.
Two-horse Equalisers, 8/6 ea.
Main two- or three-horse swing,
9/6 each.
Full particulars of sets for large
teams gladly supplied.
1. FURPHY
& SONS PTY., LTD.,
SHEPPARTON, VIC.
To J. Furpliy and Sons Pty., Ltd.,
Shepparton, Victoria.
Please send me full particulars of
your Stvingletrees.
NAME
ADDRESS
Mick Simmons
RIFLE
m
-v j i,
* y/v
AMMUNITION
/
SPECIALISTS
World-Famous
Shot Guns
;;
5 I
No. 3 - HOLLIS’ “THE
RELIABLE’* D.B.B.L.
GUN, 12 0., top lever, bar action,
32in. steel barrels, both choke, re-
bounding locks, X bolt, snap fore-
end, half pistol grip, walnut stock;
weight about 7flb. . . £15/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 4' —HOLLIS’ D.B.B.L.
GUN, 120., top lever, 32in.
barrels, both choke, X bolt. Similar
to No. 3 but lighter build.
Weight about 71b £13
Carriage Paid. '
No. 18 THE CERT D.B.B.L.
GUN, steel barrels, left choke, ex-
tension rib, bar locks, X bolt,
walnut stock, pistol _ „
grip £^/l5/0
Carriage Paid.
No. 19 CERT D.B.B.L.
HAMMERLESS GUN, 12-
gauge, 30in. steel barrels, choke,
Greener X bolt (A. &
D. action,) £7/12/0
Carriage Paid.
WORLD-FAMOUS
SPORTING RIFLES.
ẁ
No. 1-THE MAINE
RIFLE, 22-cal., bolt
action, fitted with plain
V-back sight; for short, long
or long-rifle cartridges.
Round barrel, 18in. long,
bored and rifled with the
same care as the military
weapon, and guaranteed
accurate; weight
about 3 Jib. 2 4/9
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6
No. 2 THE MAINE
SPECIAL BOLT
ACTION RIFLE,
22-cal., take-down, with
safety bolt. For short, long
or long-rifle cartridges; 21 in.
round barrel; weight
about 3-fib 35/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6
No. 12 —WINCHES-
TER SINGLE SHOT
RIFLE, MODEL 60,
for 22 short, long or long-
rifle rimfire cartridges; 23in.
round steel barrel, one-piece
pistol grip stock, bolt action,
ladder rear- and gold bead
front-sight; weight -
4jib 50 -
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-
No. 8 STEVENS’
SPRINGFIELD S.S.
RIFLE, MODEL 52,
22—cal., bolt action,
22in. round barrel, ivory
bead front- and ladder rear-
sight; weight about
41lb 40. “
Postage 2/3; Other States, M-
No. 11 - STEVENS’
BOLT ACTION RE-
PEATING RIFLE,
22—cal., magazine holds
14 short, 12 long or 1 0
long-rifle cartridges, mixed
or separate; 22in. round
barrel, slide action, ivory
bead front- and ladder rear-
sight; weight about
4jib °s'-
Carriage Paid.
Write for illustrated detailed Shooting List.
All Letters to Box 18 b, P. 0., II ay market,
Sydney.
MickSimmonsltd.
HAVMAEKET, SYDNEY.
“The Preyiicr Sports House of^AustraUa^^^
closely rationed in loan money—and let me
say that I think this course was necessary—
the State Government cannot be expected to
find the finance. I am clearly of opinion
that date-growing settlements at the mouths
of these three rivers are the most promising
way of promoting a white Australia in what
is, at present, a rather piebald area and a
weakness to the nation from a military point
of view. In the circumstances I think the
national Government should assist the State
Government with a trust loan in order to
establish such a settlement with unemployed
married men.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Formula of a sheep Itch which contains
sulphate of ironf —4324.
Sulphate of iron, as a mild astringent
tonic, may be used when the sheep are on
green luscious fodder. It should not be
added to the lick when the sheep are on
dry fodder. A recommended formula' is:
Sulphate of iron, 24 p.c.; bonemeal, 30 p.c.;
and salt, 67J p.c. , ,
If I can obtain Is. per pound for bean seed,
at what price per bushel would it be more
profitable to market the bcans?‘ —4311.
Without considering harvesting and
marketing costs in each case, the price would
be about 4s. per bushel.
I have several native bears under my care.
They did exceptionally well until a month
ago they developed an ailment that started
with a severe cold in the head, followed by
heavy cough, sneezing and acute running
from the nose. I have tried many methods
to cure them, and all have failed. Gan you
suggest a remedy ? —3420.
Your bears are sickening for pneumonia.
A method of treatment that has proved
very successful is to put the koalas for a
few days in an inhalation chamber. An
improvised contrivance of this sort devised
by a Queensland zoo proprietor consists of
an old 40-gallon petrol-drum with a hole cut
in the bottom. In this is placed an oil
lamp, over which is 1 a tin containing a mix-
ture of oil 'Of eucalyptus and friar’s balsam.
Above the drum, the top of which is open,
is placed a.n old tea-chest, the bottom of
which is perforated; this serves as the
inhalation chamber, in which 1 the animal or
animals to be treated are placed. The effect
of the fumes is to bring away the mucous,
which is imperative if pneumonia is to be
warded off. Native bears do not drink, and,
unless they are taught to do so, it is difficult
to administer medicine to them. The con-
trivance described was designed to overcome
that.
Way to make haggis? —43Bs.
The stomach bag of a sheep, having been
well washed, turned inside out and salted,
is about half-filled (room being left for
expansion) with "the heart, liver and lungs
of the animal, minced together with a large
onion, half a pound of oatmeal, a pound of
suet, salt, pepper and half a teaspoonful of
mixed spice ; the addition of the juice of a
lemon and some soup stock is often found
to be an improvement. The bag is then
sown up and left to boil for about three
hours.
Method of waterproofing calico and hes-
sian by using sugar of lead and alum ? —
4426.
Dissolve soz. alum in 1 gallon boiling
water. Make a second solution by dissolv-
ing 4oz. sugar of lead in 1 gallon boiling
water. Mix the two solutions, and allow
to stand overnight, then pour off the clear
liquid and throw away the sediment. Put
the material in the liquid and move about
until thoroughly soaked ; then squeeze partly
of water but do not wring; dip and repeat
the squeezing once or twice, then dry in the
the shade. More successful for fine, closely-
woven cloths than for hessian, which is
better treated with boiling tar or linseed oil.
What kind of oil is used for making an oil-
skin coat and how is it applied? —42o4.
Boiled linseed oil is used. One quart is
mixed with 4oz. yellow soap, previously
made into a jelly in boiling water. Stir the
soap briskly into the oil, over gentle heat.
If the coat is new and unoiled, dip it in
cold water, hang out to drain, and, when
all water has dripped out but the material
is still damp, lay it out on a table, and
brush on a coating of the hot oil and soap.
Allow it to dry thoroughly, then apply a
second coat; dry again, and give a third
coat, which should be sufficient. The addi-
tion of a little lampblack to the oil mix-
ture will make a black dressing. If the coat
is an old one. wash it well and repair it
before re-oiling. Excellent ready : prepared
dressings are made by most Australian paint
manufacturers.
Recipe for boot polish, all shades? —4023.
Assemble 9 parts yellow beeswax, 20 parts
turpentine, 1 part soap and 20 parts boil-
ing water. Shved the wax into the turps
and dissolve over gentle heat, preferably by
standing the container in a vessel of water;
melt the soap in the water, then stir the
two liquids together, and keep stirring when
removed from the fire until the polish cools
down and all the parts are well mixed to-
gether. Coloring is added before cooling, and
stirring must be continued until cooling sets
in to keep the color in suspension. For
black, use lamp black; for brown, Vandyke
or Bismarck brown, or burnt umber; for
lighter browns, yellow ochre with a little
brown added. The basis mixture is highly
inflammable; use a water bath for melting
it. or a tightly-closed stove with a low fire.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Deekay” : A very useful harrow cart can
be made from the front wheels of a McKay
combine or drill and any McKay seat. Prop
up the forecarriage, remove the pivot bolt
from the axle and run the wheels out from
underneath. Get a suitable pole, Bft. or
10ft. long, and bolt the axle to it about a
foot from one end. Let the axle into the
pole about an inch, so that it cannot pivot.
Any machine-seat can be bolted on the pole
without any trouble, and a hole bored in
the other end of the pole to connect it with
the harrow-bar completes the job. It is only
a few minutes’ work to return the wheels
to their proper machine.
“Le Glorieux”: Many calves are adepts at
rubbing off a headstall. The old-fashioned
tin-shutter hung on a pin driven through the
cartilage of the nose cannot be rubbed, and
will not injure cow or calf. Another suit-
able muzzle which will not catch in brush
and rubbish can be made with an empty jam-
tin. Punch two holes on opposite sides near
the top rim. Fit tin over calf’s muzzle and
pass a piece of stiff fencing-wire through
the hole on one side, thence through the
cartilage between nostrils and out of the
other hole; cut ends off and bend neatly over
edge of tin. This device will hold the calf
off from sucking, will not interfere with its
feeding, will not hurt the cow, and may be
removed with a snip of the pliers.
“Dai R.”: After sandstorms a thorough
cleaning of all revolving parts of machines
should be made. Also oil-holes (almost in-
variably filled after a blow) should be picked
out. Otherwise there will be hot bearings
through lack of oil, very often not discovered
till the damage is done.
“The Breaker” : If the knife used for-stock
refuses to open, on account of blood rust,
wrap a handkerchief tightly round it, leav-
ing enough to allow a firm grip and throw
the knife sharply to the ground, still retain-
ing a hold of its wrapping. If the rusted-
in blade does not open, I’ll buy the knife
as a curio.
“Buenba”: Having a lot of odds and ends
of hose (fin.) I cut with a hacksaw a number
of 4in. pieces out of a discarded bike, and,
having soaped the inside of hose-ends, forced
these short tubes in. I soon had a length of
hose that would reach all round my garden.
This has lasted some yeai's and is satisfac-
tory in all ways.
“Mulgo”: Many men jib at timbering a
well; but it is simple for anyone used to
working with bush timber. First see that
your well is square; then get slabs of even
width, 2in. thick, and of the length of the
well’s diameter. Cut shoulders at the ends
of each, 2in. deep and half-way through the
width of the slab. Then lay them, going
round and round the walls from the bottom
upwards; the interlocking shoulders will
hold each tier firmly in place. Finish with
four small interlocked logs on top.
“Karaway”: To choose maize for seed
from good stalks that carry two or more
even cobs, it isn’t necessary to go over the
field and mark them, as described by
“A.C.8.” (B. 15/2/’33). When pulling the
ripe corn, carry a sheath knife on the belt,
cut off the suitable stalks as you come to
them, and throw them into the dray with
the cobs on. In the barn you’ll know the
cobs by the stalks, and if the grain is suit-
able you put them by during the husking.
“Yarri”: The scarecrow made of sticks,
old clothes and a big hat has been rejuven-
ated by the adaptation of wireless and the
installation of a loud-speaker. Set up in a
prominent position in the orchard the dummy
becomes a real scarer, if he only bawls out
the cricket scores to the feathered thieves, or
tells a bed-time story to the flying-foxes.
“Pigologist”: Pigs kept in sties or yards
cannot balance their own rations, and must
be given a chance to get the mineral salts
their systems crave, A pig must have |oz.
of salt per day for every 1001 b. of its weight,
but it can, get too much salt if the food is
only swill or household wastes. A 50-50
mixture of salt and wood ashes should always
be available to let pigs eat what they want.
That mixture is better than rock salt and
prepared licks.
“ J.A.S.”: The hen which can continue
laying when the severe strain of the moult
is coming on her possesses desirable char-
acteristics which will almost surely be trans-
mitted. To get the moult over in the short-
est time, keep the birds on their usual ration
of mash, and allow 121 b. to 141 b. .of grain
per 100 birds per day, with green feed in
abundance. The growing, of new feathers
requires a great deal of protein. See that
your mash contains a liberal percentage of
dried blood.
“Dejay”: It’s a mistake to let vine lines,
like melons and pumpkins, climb on trellis
work if you ai’e leaving them there to
mature. In most cases they fall with the
weight and damage. It’s the best way to
grow cucumber vines, though.
“Karaway”: Half a pound of washing
soda applied at the roots of citrus trees will
free them of black scale and smut. It has
been used with satisfactory results against
red scale and even Indian white wax scale.
The handiest way to apply it is to dissolve
the soda in water and pour the mixture into
a shallow trench round the root of the tree.
“Burradoo”: Ash is the best fertiliser for
potatoes. It can be supplied by putting in
a crop such as Japanese millet and setting
fire to it when it is dry and woody. Sounds
wasteful, but the burn will do' the land a
lot of good by dismissing pests, diseases and
foreign weed-growths, and the better crop
of spuds to follow will be worth much more
than the value of the work and the lost crop.
“Wandi”: Hides tanned with bloodwood
hark make nice soft leather. This tannin is
particularly suitable for light pelts, such as
goat, sheep and kangaroo skins.
“D.H.R.”; Save old horseshoes and use
them as supports for sliprails. Elongate
the shoe-heels by flattening with a hammer,
and punch holes therein for nailing to gate
posts. These holders will outlast the rest
of the gate. Horseshoes also make excellent
swinging-gate pivots. Bore holes the neces-
sary distance apart and drive the points of
the shoes well in, previously widening or nar-
rowing to fit the post.
“Beady”: My experience is that stinkwort
doesn’t thrive as well in northern as in
southern N.S.W., . but in both parts over-
stocking and rabbits help the growth of the
weed. Either side of my run is rabbit-
infested and overstocked country, bare of
grass most of the year; stinkwort flour-
ishes thickly to my boundary fence, where
it stops.. Apparently it can’t establish itself
country.
“Bundong”: Having used a shower dip
irc southern Queensland I can support
Woorah” (B. 11/l/’33). I contemplate
building a shower dip with the liquid pumped
directly on the sheep through a pipe per :
torated by three or four rows of holes and
placed just high enough above the sheep for
the shower to cover the pen. Any reader
seen or used such a dip?


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every
inquiry must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Governess, Protestant, 25 or. over, wanted for
s.-w. Queensland; teach three children; correspon-
dence-school French and music. Fare paid. Refs.
—4598.
Young woman, N.S.W., seeks position as cook-
general ; can cook bread. Station exp.—4594.
Englishman (Tas.), ret. soldier, knowledge stock
and feeding, pedigree stock raiser, wants employ-
ment. —4577.
Gentlewoman (Vic.), 60, single, writer, wishes
home for winter, low board or return company and
house-minding.—4530.
Young lady (26), Sydney, eight years’ exp.
typist, shorthand writer and dictaphone operator,
used to duplicating, requires position city or country.
Refs.—4s23.
Tas. journalist (23), public school ed., wants
secretarial, tutorial or office position in Brisbane in
return for board. Refs.—4soo.
To buy “The New Science of Healing” and
“Science of Facial Expression,” by Louis Kulne.'
—4539. .
To buy books on horoscope reading.—4s27.
To buy books, magazines, newspapers and pam-
phlets published in Australia before 1850.—4556.
Address of the widow of Frank Morton.—46l2.
Words of comic songs popular 35 to 40 years
ag0.—4613.
Information Sought.
A friend states that in 1893 78 inches of
rain fell in four days on the watershed of
the Brisbane River. Is this true? If so, is
it a world’s record? —4loB.
In the four days ended 9 a.m. February 4,
1893, 77.31 in. of rain fell at Crohamhurst
at the head of the Stanley River, Brisbane
River basin. iCan’t say if that quantity is a
world’s record for four consecutive days,
but it is. certain that the fall of 35.71 in. at
Crohamhurst in the 24 hours ended 9 a.m.
February 3, 1893, has been exceeded in the
Khasia Hills, n.-e. India, 40in. having been
recorded there on more than one occasion.
What were the Biglow Papers? —4436.
Humorous and satirical verses written in
Yankee dialect, supposedly by Hosea Biglow
but really by James Russell Lowell. The first
series appeared in 1848 and dealt with the
U.S. war with Mexico. The second series
appeared in 1867 and dealt with the Civil
War.
Values of the exports of Britain and Ger-
many from 1910 to 1914? —4086.
Britain, 1910, £534,145,817; 1911,
£556,878,432; 1912, £598,961,130; 1913,
£634,820,326 ; 1914, £526,195,523. Germany,
1910, £382,209,900; 1911, £411,219,900;
1912, _ £454,976,450 ; 1913, £509,965,000; and
for first six months, 1914 (no figures pub-
lished for war years), £249,248,000.
I have noticed in very hot climates that
about noon on a summer’s day a breeze be-
gins to blow landwards from the sea and
continues in that direction till sunset,
whereas near midnight this breeze is super-
seded by one blowing from the shore sea-
icards. What is the reason? —444o.
The heat of the sun causes the air over
the earth to expand, and therefore to rise.
This upper stratum passes away towards the
sea, and thus increases the barometric pres-
sure. This causes a current of air to
flow continually towards the coast, where
the pressure is lower. When the land
breeze sets in at night, it is to be explained
by similar reasoning. This time the atmo-
sphere over the land is cooled, and the
heated above contract and therefore
fall. The cooling takes place much more
rapidly over the land than over the sea.
1 herefore the colder, heavier air rushes out
to sea to relieve the higher pressure.
(1) Methods employed for the commercial
manufacture of oxygen? (2) Is it manufac-
tured by the electrolysis of water f’—4336.
(1) Air is freed of its carbon dioxide,
compressed, cooled and then expanded. The
liquid so. produced is made to flow down a
rectification column, filled with plates fash-
ioned to ensure its intimate contact with
ascending gas, which is produced at the base
ot the column by evaporating the liquid
as it arrives there. When equilibrium is
attained almost pure oxygen can be drawn
I <?\ ln ni bottom in gaseous or liquid form.
(2) The much greater power consumption
prevents this process competing with the
liquid-air process.
I desire some information concerning Alex-
ander Macleay, early N.S.W. .civil servant
end botanist, and his family. What books
should I consult? —4364.
t A t trustworthy account of the family is
J. J. 4 letcher s presidential address to the
Linnean Society of N. S. Wales, published
'll society’s “Proceedings” for 1920; for
r M acieay, Patchett Martin’s “Life and
Letters of Robert Lowe” should also be con-
X- t^ d ’ ci! nd , for Sir George Macleay. Mrs.
A. G. Sturts Life of Charles Sturt.”
(1) Qualifications necessary to become an
Australian Royal Air Force cadet? (2)
Possibility of enlistment at present? (3)
{ ay? (4) Any course of study that may
better chances •of enlistment? (5) Is
advancement possible? Time taken? —434l.
4 1 candidate must be over 18 years
an J under 22 at the time of his appoint-
™el; , Ge must have passed the inter-
J' kIw 6 including in this the
‘.•mieni ° f P hysics or elementary .science. He
I 1 1° 1 ? e unmarried, and be able to pass
' V|t l y medical test. (2) It is antici-
pa ed that applications will be invited in
fIT A ugust this year for courses of
of T Jr? t e< - mrnenco in 1934. (3) The pay
nflot nffil 1 ? ‘T'proximately gs. per day. A
Pilot officers pay is £328 per annum less
approximately 20 p.c. (Financial Emergency
Act 1931). (4) Provided a candidate lias
the minimum educational standard, no
further course of study is required, although
a student of engineering or science would
probably be preferable to a student in arts
or commerce. (5) A cadet normally gradu-
ates on completion of his flying course to
the rank of pilot officer, and about six
months after may be promoted to flying
officer. Within four years be may attain the
rank of flight lieutenant. Entries for cadet-
ships, however, are for short-service commis-
sions only, and only a very small percentage
of officers holding short-service commissions
are granted permanent commissions. A
short-service commission is for five years.
Who was “Carey the informer”? —4490.
James Carey, a Dubliner, who became a
member of the Fenian conspiracy and one
of the originators of the Invincibles. He
took part in the murder of Lord Cavendish
and Thomas Burke on May 6, 1882, and
• turned Queen’s evidence. He was murdered
soon afterwards on board ship near the Cape
by Patrick O’Donnell.
(1) What metals is gun-metal composed
of, and what are its uses? (2) Is easting
gun-metal a difficult process?— 44o9.
(1) About 9 parts copper and 1 part tin,
together with small quantities of lead and
zinc. It is used for making castings for
bearings and other engineering purposes, and
formerly for making ordnance. (2) It
requires careful casting, as the constituents
are liable to separate in the process.
(1) How many players constitute an
American football team and what positions
do they fill? (2) Points awarded for a goal
and a try? (3) Is there any offside rule?
(4) Title of a hook on the subject? —4379.
(1) Eleven. There are seven forwards
(two guards, two tacklers, two ends and a
“centre-rush” or “snapper-back”), a quarter-
back, two halfbacks and a fullback. (2)
A “touchdown” (a Rugby try) is 5 points, a
goal 6 points (one point more for conver-
sion of a touchdown), a goal from the field
(potted goal) 4 points, and a “safety” (a
Rugby touchdown) 2 points. (3) A man is
offside as in Rugby, but is put onside when
the ball strikes the ground. (4) “American
Football,” by A. M. Weyand.
(1) What is the legend of the “Flying
Dutchman”? (2) Is Wagner’s opera based
on the legend? —439o.
The name was given to a spectre ship,
supposed to haunt the Cape of Good Hope.
According to the legend, the captain of the
ship Vanderdecken was condemned for his
blasphemy to sail for ever round the cape,
always unable to make a port. Sailors con-
sidered the appearance of the ghostly ship a
bad omen and changed their course to avoid
it.. The legend has several variants. Accord-
ing to Scott the vessel was laden with bul-
lion, a murder was committed on board, and
plague broke out. (2) Yes.
Recipe for a cool, perfumed shaving-
cream ?- —4318.
Place lialf-cup of boiling water in a large
basin, then beat into it a small packet of
Lux. When the soap is dissolved, add one
dessertspoon of olive oil and a few drops
of oil of lavender. Beat the mixture together
with a fork until it is thick and creamy, and
store in screw-top jars.
Can a ball called wide by an umpire be
scored from? What constitutes a wide? —
4460.
Yes. Law 12 says: “If the bowler shall
bowl the ball so high over or so wide of the
wicket that, in the opinion of the umpire, it
is not within the reach of the striker, the
umpire shall call ‘Wide ball.’” If the bats-
man hits a ball which has been called “wide”
the call should be ignored. When a “wide”
is called the ball does not on that account
become dead, and the batsman may be
stumped or run out.
A player made 50 unfinished on the first
day of a match, but was absent on the next
playing day, having been picked to repre-
sent his district in another match. At the
end of the season , in making up the club
batting averages, should this innings of 50
be treated as “not out”? —4479.
The only rule that bears on the case is:
“When a batsman has retired owing to ill-
ness, injury or some other unavoidable cause
his innings must be counted as ‘not out.’ ”
It would be reasonable to accept selection to
play in a representative match as an “un-
avoidable cause.”
Can a batsman be out l.b.w. to a bowler
bowling “round the wicket”? —4so7.
Yes. There are three considerations which
an umpire must bear in mind : Did the ball
pitch in a straight line between wicket and
wicket? Was it part of the batsman’s per-
son, other than the hand, which intercepted
the ball? Would the ball have hit the
wicket? If these questions are answered in
the affirmative the batsman is out. It is
immaterial whether the ball breaks or not.
It is sometimes only possible for the bowler
bowling round the wicket to obtain an l.b.w.
with a breaking ball.
What is the meaning of the term “painter-
etcher”? Docs it denote a different kind
of etching? —446s.
One who etches designs made by himself.
No difference in the process.
(1) What has Lord Rutherford done in
the icay of releasing the energy of the atom?
(2) How is he at present employed ? (3)
What is his address? —4lls.
(1) and (2) He and other investigators
associated with him at Cambridge Uni. have
broken up atoms by bombarding them with
the minute missiles given off by radium in
the course of its disintegration, and at latest
advices had . succeeded in doing the same
thing by using an intense magnetic field
ihey have not “released atomic energy” yet,
in tile popular sense, but that may be just
around the corner. (3) Cambridge Univer-
sity.
(1) What pension does the British V.C.
carry? (2) What does the V.C. carry if
held by an Australian soldier? (3) Could
an A.I.F. soldier draw two pensions under
two different names? (4) Docs a McSulea
or a Carrel hold the V.C.? —4328.
(1) £lO a year, with an additional £5 a
year for each bar. The annuity may be
increased by the Army Council up to £5O
p.a. in special circumstances. (2) Similar
to above, except that the maximum amount
has been increased ,to £75. (3) No, but an
ex-member of the A.I.F. may draw a pen-
sion for more than one disability. If draw-
ing a pension under more than one name the
individual would be liable to prosecution.
(4) No, but Lance-corporal John Carroll,
A. 1.1 and Sergeant John McAulay, Irish
Guards, are holders of the decoration.
I have two old Kronheim prints. What
standing has Kronheim, and what is the
vat tie of the prints? —3927.
Kronheim was a follower of George
Laxter and a forerunner of the three-color
process. He did printing on a more com-
mercial basts than either Baxter or Le
Blond, and was not in their class artisti-
cally. (2) Generally the value of Kron-
neim prints is small, but some command a
higher price on account of either color or
subject. Can’t say what yours are worth
without seeing them.
How can / liven up an oil painting that
Has gone dull and apparently lost its color?
—4470.
Wash carefully in clear warm water with-
out soap or any kind of soap cleanser. Keep
changing the water and the soft linen rag
until both water and rag come away clean.
Just sponge gently—don’t rub at it. When
qmte dry take more clean rag and a tube
or megilp. Squeeze small quantities of
megilp on the rag and rub well in all
over the canvas.
/ have just left school, and wish to study
aeronautics from textbooks. What book's
do you recommend? —42s2.
It is difficult to recommend publications
dealing with aeronautics which would be
suitable to your educational standard. As
basic subjects to study you should give your
attention particularly to applied mechanics,
mathematics and physics. An informative
I s . tlle “Airworthiness Handbook for
k l }' 1 ! Aircraft,” issued by the Imperial Air
Ministry at Is. 3d. net in England.
(1) Is there an institute teaching
optometry m Sydney or Melbourne? (2)
lees and time necessary to do the course?—
4428.
(.1) Sydney Technical College. As regards
optical tuition in Melbourne, write to the
secretary, Victorian Optical Association, 177
Collins-street. (2) For the Sydney course,
three guineas a year; four years. This
includes registration.
Can you explain these phenomena? (1)
About 4 p.m.j after a thunderstorm, the foot
of a rainbow appeared in the south-west.
(_) 4 bout 6 p.m., after a, storm, a rainbow
appeared in the east. From a point just
below the horizon, about the centre of the
rainbow, radiated shadow beams, like a
photographic negative of the setting sun. —
4145.
(1) Certainly we can’t explain the foot
of a rainbow being so far round as the
south-west. At this time of the year the
sun sets in the w.-s.-w. and later afternoon
rainbows appear e.-n.-e. (2) Due to “cre-
puscular rays”—sunbeams that find their
way through rifts in the clouds rendered
luminous by the dust in their courses.
What was the “Petriana case ” which
figured in the 1908 Federal election? —
4417.
The Petriana, a ship from Borneo with a
crew of Chinese and Malays, was wrecked
off Point Nepean (Vic.) on November 28,
I.JOo. Four days later the crew left for
their homes in Borneo and China in a
Japanese mail-steamer. During the inter-
vening period conversations passed between
the Petriana’s agents and a member of the
lederal Government regarding the super-
vision of the crew and provision for their
deportation. The Government offered
accommodation at two Victorian quarantine
stations ; the agent’s representative refused,
but suggested that it might be possible to
arrest the crew as prohibited immigrants,
this suggestion was rejected, and the Gov-
ernment in turn suggested that the crew
be embarked in the. Japanese vessel. State-
ments appeared in the press attribut-
ing to the Government the proposal to gaol
the crew, and this allegation was repeated
throughout the election campaign.
How to make barbola paste?— 4o46.
Boil together 1 part powdered resin, 4
parts raw linseed oil and 6 parts melted
glue; mix well together. Moisten some whit-
mg with water until it is well damp, and
add sufficient to the boiled mixture to make
it creamy, but thin enough to flow freely
from a brush. When high relief is desired,
it may be stiffened with more damped whit-
ing ; a little yellow ochre added to the
paste will give a good ivory color. For very
arge work where high relief is wanted, add
little pieces of teased cotton wool to the
paste. : To keep the paste moist and fluid
when not in use, add a little glycerine, but
it is preferable to mix and use just enough
ror work which can be completed at once.
Are there fireflies or glow-worms in Aus-
tralia? If so, what are the chief varieties
and their distinguishing characteristics?—
4381. ■
Both fireflies and glow-worms occur. The
former are beetles of the family Lampyridw,
and have the abdomen partly phosphorescent
during life. They are included in the genera
Atyphella and Luciola. and occur in the
tropical and sub-tropical parts of Australia
The “glow-worms” of Australia are the
larva; of gnats or midges of the sub-family
Diadocodinm of the family Mycetophilidw.
The slender larvae spin webs in damp places
on the faces of moist rocks, and the colonies
may be of some size, like those of Bunda-
noon (N.S.W.).
Does Anybody Know?
What is the Ragged Thirteen in a two-
handed game of cribbage?—4lso.
Bj'ier Answers.
R.P.: Clean frequently with a saturated
solution of boracic acid and paint the ulcer with a
25 p.c. solution of chromic acid twice a week....
E.L.V.: Wash daily for a week with Jeyes’s fluid
diluted 80 times with warm water. Afterwards dry
and comb well. In all these cases it is best to cut
the hair off short before treatment is commenced....
J.S.: “The Art and Craft of Humorous Writing-,”
by D. Nevill Howard (25.) S.C.: Presume you
mean Hugh McKay, not McCrae. The former wrote
“In the Changing Crystal,” which was illustrated
by Jack Sommers. It is now out of print....
W.A.: Dobu Island is between Normanby and Fer-
gusson Islands in the D’Entrecasteaux Group. It
was originally the headquarters of the Methodist
Mission 11. H.: “The Eyes of Youth,” by Max
Marcin and Charles Guernon, first, played in London,
1918; “The Little Damozel,” by Monckton lloffe, first
produced in London, 1909 ; “My Lady’s Dress,” by
Edward Knoblock, first produced in London, 1914.
.. . .F.L.: Multiple telegrams are telegrams having
the same text and addressed to any number of
addresses at one or more offices of destination. They
are accepted at reduced rates. .. ,T. 8.: E. Paynter
is 30 years old, plays for Lancashire, and is a
professional. His performance last, English season
was 2035 runs for an average of 37.08. He is a
left-hander. . . .F.M.A.: (1) The co. is not established
in Australia at present, but it is in U.S.A. and
Great Britain. (2) 501 Little Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. (3) Communicate with A. G. M. Mitchell,
above address, who .will supply information regard-
ing pamphlets and brochures J. 11.: Regret no
information available on the subject.. . .E.E.: Cannot
furnish a contributor’s name without his permission.
Will send on any stamped letter addressed care
of The Bulletin. .. .E.D.L.: Council can compel
users to have meters installed if water is used
for other than domestic purposes and can compel
them to pay excess irrespective of whether others are
meterless. ... A. M.T.: Write to the Q’land Forestry
Board, Brisbane... .W.W.: Chances are remote at
present. Write Commissioner of Police, Police Dept.,
Phillip and Hunter streets, Sydney... .N.8.W.:
Correct title is “Odtaa,” formed from initial letters
of sentence “One damn thing after another,” which
is, incidentally, an apt description of the b00k....
W.M.A.: Write W. J. Baker, 3 Hunter-street, Sydney.
. ...L.C.: (1) Vellum. (2) Write Lecturer-in-charge,
Tanning School, Bourke-street, Waterloo... .A.J.E.P.:
There are several available in Sydney; Write to
J. W. Earnshaw, Ltd., 4 Bond-street. A pearling
lugger would be most suitable J.S.L.: Nothing
available in Sydney on the subject... .D.G.: Howard
Prison Reform League; Hon. Sec., N. A. Sachisthal,
25 Wickham-street, Arncliffe, Sydney... .A.E.8.: (1)
Write Dept, of Transport, Canberra, F.C.T. (2)
Answered “Wild Cat” page... .H.E.8.: (1) The
employee is liable to unemployment relief tax of
Is. per week in respect of wages, plus value of
board and lodging (£1 per week). (2) An em-
ployer is not liable to family endowment tax unless
the total wages, etc., paid by him to all employees
(including the value of board and lodging, calculated
at £1 per week per employee) amount to £3 or
over for the week. .. .5.11. G.: Fellowship of Australian
Writers; hon. sec., Miss M. Quinn, 76 Addison-road,
Manly... .E.D.; If the blocks are manufactured in
'Australia and sold to proprietors of newspapers for
use in the production of a newspaper, they are
exempt from sales tax. .. .L.J.S.: (1), (2) and
(3) Yes. .. .H.E.8.: (1) The Rower spray gun is
an attachment for the domestic vacuum cleaner,
obtainable from; James Sandy and Co., 268 George-
street, Sydney. (2) 375. 6d J.11.C.: Only by
writing to the Registrar of Births at Halifax....
W.L.M.: We do not know the paper. The rest of
the question is vague. .. .8.C.L.5.: (1) Write direct
to the shipping cos. (2) Write to the Consul-
General for France, Sydney. .. .B.D.P. : Watt’s
“Leather Manufacture’’ (255.), Rogers’s “Practical
Tanning” (745.), and Harvey’s “Tanning Materials”
(255.) .. . .G.W.: McClung’s “Handbook of Micro-
scopical Technique” (565.), Shillington Scales’s
“Practical Microscopy” (135.), Gatenby and Cowdry’s
“Microtomisfc’s Vade-Mecum” (455.) ... .M.T.: “Hail
Columbia,” by Joseph Hopkinson, music by Fyles;
also “The Star Spangled Banner,” by F. S. Key, to
the music of J. S’. Smith. In the U.S.A. the music
of “God Save the King” has been borrowed for
“My Country, ’Tis of Thee,” by Samuel Smith....
E. J. J.: Maynooth College was established during
the Ministry of Pitt in 1795 by an Act of ’ the Irish
Parliament. In 1846 Peel carried a bill for an
increased and permanent endowment, no longer
dependent upon a vote of Parliament. The college
accommodates 500 resident students destined for the
priesthood. .. .S.A.S.: Dr. Souter did not write those
verses... .E.P.8.: Uric acid is not a disease, but
a sign of a disturbance of body functions. Its
prevalence is exaggerated. Diet depends on the cause
of its presence to excess in a particular case....
H.W.; (1) Yeast’s value lies in the fact that it is
rich in Vitamin B, which is scanty in the normal
civilised diet. (2) There is a medical prejudice
against such vague names as “Tonic” or “Blood
Purifier.” (3) Know of no evidence of its value
in diabetes or liver complaint. .. .A.J.D.; Your dog
has chorea (St. Vitus’s dance) which frequently
follows distemper. It is incurable.... H. 8.: This-
has not been done with human beings and is quite
unlikely to be of any value to them.... G.F.W.:
(1) Write Marconi School of Wireless, 97 Clarence-
street, Sydney. (2) The cost of the marine opera-
tor’s course is £52 10s., and the duration two
years, 18 months of which are by correspondence
and the remaining six months by personal attend-
ance at the 5ch001.... F.W.; (1) and (2) No. (3)
Yes. All these matters are clearly covered in Law
23. (4) In the third Test match in England in
1930, Bradman scored 334. Woodfull and Jackson
opened and the first wicket fell for two runs. Brad-
man then commenced his innings. .. .H.H.N.: (1)
£103,118,476. (2) £5,105,198, including exchange.
(3) (q) £1,921,000; ( b ) £7,615,000 D.B. : (1)
If she knows your address, process may be served
on you there; failing that-, efforts to reach you'
may be made by advertisements- in the principal
Australian newspapers. If the Court is satisfied
that all reasonable efforts to reach you have been
made and have failed, it may dispense with service.
(2) Probably an inquiry addressed to the Registrar
in Divorce, Somerset House, London, would give you
the information. (3) You would, if they could
lay hands on you. .. .H.C.: You cannot act separately
from your co-owner in any matter affecting the
joint property. If you apply for a stay-order it
must be jointly with him....T.G.: The WilliamsQn-
Imperial Opera Company of 1932 gave 90 per-
formances in Sydney and 94 in Melbourne. The co.
staged 15 operas iff Sydney and 17 in Melbourne.
....H.E.8.: Molong is an abo. word meaning “all
rocks” ; Tallawarra, also an abo. word, means
“a slippery place”.... H.R.R.: (1) Theodore Fink
was born on Guernsey, Channel Islands, on July 3,
1855. (2) He was M.L.A. for Jolimont and West
Richmond, 1894-1904 S.M.F.: When houses are
infested, the rooms should be thoroughly scrubbed
with hot soapy water, to which phenyle has been
added... .J.N.: Line-casting catapults are unknown
amongst the fishermen and dealers in fishing tackle
to whom the inquiries were directed. It is possibly
a local development which has not yet readied
Sydney...,(Many others mailed.)


MEN AMONG
PEARLS
by
H. drake -Brockman
Synopsis : Christopher Kentwho has
been turned down by his cousin Lettice
on account of his poverty, comes to the
Broome pearling grounds, hoping to
make quick money and return to her.
June Goer, daughter of another
pearler, is greatly interested in Chris;
but it is young Peter Fordyce, a
wealthy pearler, and not Chris, who is
interested in June. A letter from Let-
tice brightens Chris, but he fails to
notice her references to a new male
friend. Chris, whose affairs have not
been going well, loses his diver
through paralysis.—a heavy blow.
Peter Fordyce proposes to June, but
she staves him off j and Peter turns
enthusiastically to a new scheme for
pooling pearl-shell. Goer alone amongst
the master-pearlers stands out of the
scheme, and June is upset by the ill-
feeling that follows. Chris, disturbed by
hearing that he and his partner are
heavily in debt to Fordyce, considers
putting the rest of his money into a
cattle-run owned by Ryce and Munro.
Friends warn him—too late —of the
character of these men. Chris, reading
English papers, sees the announce-
ment of Lettice’s marriage, and begins
to drink heavily. He again puts out
to sea. Queenie, a young girl with
whom June has been friendly, wears
a very fine string of pearls, and it is
rumored that Goer gave them to her.
June, finding it to be true, is shocked
and angry with her father. An old
friend, Mr. Montgomery, persuades
her to go for a holiday to Melbourne,
hoping'she will forget the affair.
CHAPTER XIX.
Three Letters for Chris.
CHRIS< sailed to the north when he left
port, determined to pick up his part-
ner, who had not dropped into Broome
for the Festival of the Lanterns, and find
out exactly how matters stood. He worked
round the reefs and islands in the mouth of
King Sound, where the tide-rips whirled
and boiled, and then stood over towards
the Lacepede Islands; but although he
sighted a number of luggers, several of them
belonging to Peter Fordyce, he did not fall
in with old Captain Kent. The weather
warmed up. Chris took to squatting in
the bows, staring out over the sea. The
crew chattered for a time about his be-
havior, but. they soon grew accustomed to
it, and gave up wondering among them-
selves why the boss had ceased to read and
read, as once had been his wont.
The new diver worked hard, but he pos-
sessed neither the experience nor the quick
eyes of Hashimoto; and often they struck
patches of dirty water and had perforce to
waste precious hours sailing in search of
plp£»VPT* SPAS
Chris, had he been asked, would have
found difficulty in saying what he thought
about as he squatted there staring out over
waves moving and tossing without cease >
grey in the dawn, sapphire at noon, black
and shuddering at night beneath a majestic
dome of star-rich sky. He did once pause
to wonder why in Australia the stars should
seem so far away and yet so brilliant and
numerous, so cold and yet so fiery bright ,
not like the soft, friendly stars he remem-
bered in England, peeping merrily out from
curtains of cloud. Really he existed in a
kind of stupor; it was as though his mind
refused to function for fear of its own
emotions. He got through the days
mechanically; but each day was longer
than the one before.
At the beginning of October the unbroken
blueness of his world was invaded by bat-
talions of clouds, springing up from the
sea, piling over the sky in foamy masses,
pink-stained into fairy-tale castles by the
setting sun. But they brought no comfort
of beauty to the still-watching figure. They
menaced Chris, reminded him the months
were slipping by; soon it would be Lay-up
again, and he could not see how Kent and
Kent were to carry on—unless, of course,
the old captain had fished a pearl.
He gave up all thought of ever finding
one himself. He opened his oysters with-
out hope; he began to find the task dis-
gusting, to loathe the slimy touch of the
grey shapeless creatures, the futile quest
of his fingers for a gem hidden, perchance,
by a black and viscous beard. The future
held nothing now, he told himself, except
an ever-mounting determination to be rid
of this sea, this sky, this space. What-
ever happened he would not again come
out on a lugger. He was not going to make
a penny out of pearling, but that did not
matter —now. He would see if Ryce and
Munro could let him work on the station.
There would be action in galloping after
cattle: the physical exertion would occupy
him; he would not have to sit so still,
drugging his mind, as now, with the eternal
motion of the sea.
The jib swung over as the lugger altered
her course. A sudden commotion among
the crew drew Kent’s gaze listlessly to the
south. A sail showed up—a schooner!
An hour later Fordyce and Son’s auxiliary
schooner hove to on the port bow. Chris
called for the dinghy and rowed over to her
by himself. He was astonished to see Peter
Fordyce waiting on the deck, screwing up
his grey eyes as he always did with the
sun striking on a hatless head—Peter so
rarely came out on the run these days.
“Hullo, Chris!” he greeted. “How’s,
things?”
“Not too brilliant, old man.”
“Well, come and have a spot and I’ll
give you all the news. Also I have some
mail for you. I thought I might strike
you up here. One of my chaps came
in” It was on the tip of Peter’s tongue
to say with a fine pearl, but he refrained—
that might sound like rubbing it in. “He
said he had' been working alongside you.”
They went down the companionway into
the cabin. Peter handed over the mail.
He would cheerfully have given the new
pearl to know the contents of the letter
lying at the top of the little packet which
the postmaster had tied together with
string. He had been consumed by jeal-
ousy from the moment it came into his
keeping. June’s hand had traced the name
upon the envelope, and, suddenly, Peter’s
eyes were opened to a possibility he had
not even dreamed of. For a week the
knowledge that she wrote to Chris tor-
tured him who had received no word. He
was glad to get rid of the letters.
He watched intently. But Chris merely
took the packet with perfunctory thanks,
glanced carelessly at the topmost envelope,
and tossed the bundle down upon the
table. He did not recognise the writing
which so perturbed the other —he had never
seen it before. He felt more interested in
the bottle and glasses which Peter turned
to bring from a locker.
Peter’s observant eyes noted with sur-
prise the amount Chris poured for himself.
He had not suspected him of a weakness
for whisky; but the tot was a big one, even
for a man who had seen none for weeks.
“Broome’s dead,” Peter said. “Monty’s
gone to Melbourne and taken June with
him.” .
“Has he?” replied Chris, surprised but
unamused by the unconscious irony of
Peter’s remark. “Are you going over, too?’
“No.” The words came out shortly.
Chris decided to pursue that topic no
further. He asked about shell prices and
the Vandervelde scheme and other things
which interested him more, failing, in his
own absorption, to notice how singularly
unresponsive Peter remained over the busi-
ness which had once lain so close to his
heart.
Fordyce, hungering for news of June,
tried by subtle suggestion to draw Chris
back to the mail. But Chris, who liked
Peter, found in his company an unexpected
pleasure, and did not mean to waste an>
of the short time at their disposal. He
thought, with a tiny stab more vital than
any sensation he had experienced for weeks,
that this young man, two years earlier en-
tirely unknown, was now the only living
soul in whom he was at all interested.
Letters? What could anybody write about
that he really wished to know?
“Well,” said Peter at last, “I’ll have to
blow along. You’re very solitary here,
Chris; all my boats must be nearer in
coast. And I know they are expecting me.
Don’t you want to see if any of those need
an answer?” Casually he indicated the
letters lying unheeded beside the whisky
bottle.
Chris laughed abruptly. “Not at all
likely!” Then he remembered the cattle-
run, and wondered if by any chance there
should be a note from Munro. He picked
up the packet and wrenched off the string.
Rapid survey showed only three private
letters amongst a mass of printed stuff —
catalogues, circulars, one from a London
club, doubtless reminding him that his
subscription was long overdue. But on one
of the three envelopes a fine, bold hand-
writing made Kent’s fingers shake—it filled
his heart with rage, revived a longing he
had thought for ever quenched. ’
He stuffed the
letters Hastily into
his pocket and
turned to leave his
cabin. Then he
stepped back to
the table and
reached for his
glass.
Peter’s grey eyes
narrowed. How
Chris had changed!
Once he would
have deplored such
an action as gross
bad manners; once,
too, he had com-
mented adversely to Peter on men who wore
soiled clothes outside, and neglected to shave.
Peter’s own feet were bare, and his shirt
open to the waist-over a tanned chest, but
he knew he looked spruce and clean; he
found himself meanly wishing June might
behold Chris now as he stretched oyer the
table, with a week’s stubble on his chin
and more than a week dirt on his shoits.
Why was she writing to him? What did
she say? But he said genially: “Of cour
—how about a deoch-an -doris/’’ and, drink-
ing little himself, he tried to suppress his
sudden antagonism and disapproval of a
man whose ease of manner he had hitherto
both admired and envied.
The schooner flew off to the north, a
following wind ballooning her white sails
as she danced across the waves. Fordvce
went forward and took the wheel from the
brown fingers of a Malay seaman eased
him to feel his ship answer to his touch
like a living creature. Spray dusted his
face, left it salt and tingling. He tried tc
find satisfaction in the sweep of sea and
sky, the sense of bodily and spiritual free-
dom which had once been his supreme joy.
But the elements could not hold him;
their glory had departed. He was soon
encompassed by dark thoughts; it was im-
possible for him to leave his business with
the Lay-up so close at hand, or he would
go to Melbourne. If June did not come
back with Monty before the New Year he
would go over next winter. The thought
of that letter to Kent made existence with-
out her appear even more barren than
before. Hitherto he had loved in the bold
certainty that he needed but time and
opportunity, that he could teach her to
care, in return? Now he, like June, for the
first time, faced a world wherein all things
would not yield to the will of youth. The
sparkle and color of the waves seemed but
to jeer, to grow cold and hostile.
Chris rowed back to his own lugger very
slowly. The diver was at work; and Chris
watched the air-bubbles rising and burst-
ing, pricked by wave and wind as they
reached the surface. He thought he him-
self felt like a diver down below in a tene-
brous world of his own. The thought was
followed by wonder at his own image—
extraordinary ideas seemed to drift hap-
hazard through his mind these days. They
made him feel ill at ease, he who had nevei
before analysed either emotions or motives;
it appeared unnatural suddenly to find
himself thinking that the rising bubbles
were like a man’s dreams and desires waft-
ing up through shadows; valiant little bal-
loons of light and air, doomed to vanish
into nothingness.
Why had Lettice written? What had she
to say? Bitterly he had blamed her for
not writing at the time of her marriage;
but by what right did she reopen the wound
now? He would be wise, he felt, to tear
up the letter unread, and throw it to the
sea.
He shipped oars, and, leaving the dinghy
to one of the crew, scrambled up the diver’s
tiny ladder and went below. How he
loathed this enforced intimacy with colored
men—each day it irked him more. But
at least, whilst the diver was working he
could for a short time call the cabin his
own.
He turned the other two letters curi-
ously. Lettice’s could wait—perhaps he
would throw it away later.
The one he opened first came from Ivy,
an unformed scrawl on a piece of pad-
paper. He glanced at the signature before
he commenced.
“Dear Chris,” she wrote. “This is to let
you know that you won’t find me here
when you come in again. I’m off South to-
morrow. I got a letter from the Mother
Superior saying that Rosie isn t too good,
and it’s no use to me being so far away
I’m sorry, in a way, because I get good
money here, and I’m real sad about not see-
ing you again. We just suited each other,
didn’t we? But take my advice and don’t
go and get so lonely ever again—it’s not
worth it. I have Rosie; so as long as she
is all right nothing can hurt me. But I
wouldn’t like to think you’d ever feel again
like you did that night I followed you. I
did you know. That was all gammon about
not being able to sleep. I reckoned you
needed looking after. And you were miser-
able, weren’t you?
“Well, good luck to you, Chris. I’ll have
to close now as I have packing to do. _ Hop-
ing to see you again some time m the
future.
With love from Ivy.
Kent folded the little letter slowly. She
was a good sort, Ivy. He hoped her child
was better; he would not care to think she
had' any more unhappiness ahead.
So she had imagined he needed looking
after, had she? Miserable?. A poor word!
He had touched bottom.
He twisted the letter slowly in his fingers
and wondered what would have happened
that night if he had not suddenly looked
up and beheld Ivy standing there in the
moonlight. He’d been nearly drunk, of
course, but still he could remember think-
ing possibly it would be best to end every-
thing and so wipe from his tortured mind
those unbearable pictures of Lettice as the
wife of another man. He supposed he had
to thank Ivy for destroying those pictures
—temporarily—and so for still being alive.
He had not consciously relived those bitter
hours on the beach since; now he wondered
cynically if, after all, it was worth thank-
ing her for such a Poor gift as life.
The downward droop of his lips grew
very pronounced as he picked up the letter
which had so perturbed Peter Fordyce.
Chris stared at the handwriting, but it con-
veyed nothing. That signature he also read
first, and he felt a tiny thrill of surprise.
“Dear Mr. Kent,” wrote June.
How she had worried over what to call
him, how she had determined not to write
at all! But by the time she had reached
Perth with Monty she could no longer
resist the urge of her desire to tell him
she was going away. Her feelings were so
confused, her emotions in such turmoil,
that she did not consciously know what she
felt towards him. But in the end desire
for personal expression swamped her bruised
complacency, her outraged idealism. She
tried to believe Queenie had merely been
spiteful, but in her heart she feared the
other girl had but spoken the truth. Yet
she could not leave without a single word.
“Dear Mr. Kent,” she wrote. “I wonder
if you will be surprised to see that I am
writing from Perth? lam going over to
Melbourne with Uncle Monty for a holi-
day, and I don’t really know when I shall
come back to Broome. Perhaps never!
How June wondered if he would mind that.
“But perhaps next year, and I suppose by
that time you will have a whole fleet of,
boats and be a regular verandah pearler
—like Dad, June nearly wrote, but she
shrank from a simile she no longer cared
for, but which force of habit had brought
hotfoot to her mind—' “with a nice bunga-
low and perhaps a wife.” (Transparent
subtleties of youth! Tears had gatnered
to June’s blue eyes as she penned those
words. Did she care—surely not after what
Queenie had told her! Had she no pride?
She did not know —but she had to write
to him and she had to find something to
say, so she bluffed her own heart.) lam
looking forward to having a lovely time in
Melbourne. I am to stay with Uncle
Monty’s niece, Mrs . G. M. Butler . She lives
in MacKenzie-street, Toorak. Perhaps you
know her? Afterwards 1 I shall stay with
Auntie Miriam.
“I don’t suppose you are thinking of talc-
ing a trip over? ■ I am sorry we will not be
able to have any parties this Lay-up. You
can think of me trailing round like a fashion
plate at the Cup. I shall have to do Uncle
Monty credit. .
“I hope you find a whole heap of strin-
gers, and have no more trouble with divers.
“Yours sincerely, June Goer.
Think of her trailing round like a fashion
plate! Nice child—could he ever think ot
her as anything but that, a delicate, child-
ish wraith of the woman whose letter he
meant to destroy?
June’s letter conjured up her bright, eager
glance, her fair shining hair—Chris had not
seen her head crushed, as Monty had,
those bright eyes, wistful and unhappy, as
Peter had. So charming of her to write,
he thought; why should she bother about
an old crock, like himself?
A bungalow, a wife! Chris laughed aloud
without any sound of mirth. Then for one
fraction of a second he caught sight ot tne
truth. But he shied from it as presumptu-
ous—it had been marvel enough that Let-
tice had once vowed she loved him; and he
had never imagined any other woman migh
care for him when he had cared only or
one. June was just a nice child—some day
she would marry Peter Fordyce or some
other young chap, not an old world-worn
wreck! He hoped it would be Peter.
Imagine being so foolish as to imagine,
even for one-half second, she was interested
in himself other than as a friend,
that half-second he had had time to visual-
ise a wide verandah and June, Let-
tice and yet so unlike, smiling at him as
once Lettice had smiled! ~
He sighed, June had written her address.
Some day he would answer and tell her
ab lUumination came to Chris with the sud-
den harshness of a snapped-on light. tie
asked himself how he could have . bee* so
blind as not to suspect her motive at once.
Of course she wrote to him because sh
hoped to gain news of Peter!
June’s note fluttered, to the decking b
side Ivy’s amid the unopened .
For a long time Chris stared at the o g
crested envelope which concealed he knew
not what message from his cousm. A.
length he rose with a tiny gesture of resolu
tion, and, stooping carefully-for he had
lone* since learned automatically to a\
hitttag his head —he scrambled up through
ftp scuttle The bronze figure of the
tender immobile on the platformputting
out over the stem, met his eyes. Stepp g
carefully over piled-up ropes across the
air-pipe running along the deck t
eneine-pumP, he made his way to the bo •
SseTp time to stop, boss,” commented
one of the men. , tt p
Kent nodded but offered no repiy- »
stood solitary, braced against the to. &
the little boat, and behind him, unrela


mm
★
SPALDING
TENNIS BALLS
CHOSEN FOR
EXCLUSIVE USE
IN
VICTORIAN
1933 AUTUMN
CHAMPIONSHIP
★
QUEENSLAND
L.T. A. 1932
CHAMPIONSHIPS
★
Sth.AUSTRALIAN
L.T. A. 1933
championships
★
W. AUSTRALIAN
L.T. A. 1932
CHAMPIONSHIPS
★
IWL
Further
Proof of
LEADERSHIP
SPALDING
TENNIS
BALLS
Exclusively Adopted
for
VICTORIAN
M.C.C. AUTUMN
CHAMPIONSHIPS
—-for the Bth year
in succession !
cost no more in purchase hut
a great deal less in play
c 6 MNT TH E - STAR S T HAT USE TMEMA
to him, the crew set about tidying up. He
did not hear the diver arrive on deck, the
calls and cries of the men. He was resolved
to destroy the letter he clutched without
opening it. His eyes grew bright and stead-
fast as he gazed at the far horizon; but
they were led away by a trail of cloud,
round to the low sun, and he was forced to
shut them, dazzled. When he lifted the
lids to look at the letter in his hand he
could see only a blur of dancing green and
yellow lights. The set of his mouth soft-
ened, wavered. He ran a finger swiftly
down the envelope, and the next moment,
amid a riot of flickering lights, he read what
Lettice had to say. He noticed that the
letter was more than two months old.
“Chris, my dear,” she wrote. “I have
something very difficult to tell you. Cruel
still, I am selfish enough to hope, for you,
■ and cruel, in a way, for me. Will you ever
guess, I wonder, hoiv hard it has been for
me? You have been gone for a long time,
my dear, yet all along I have hoped.
Always I have told myself that you would
come back. Ever since that dreadful day
—do you remember?—l have dreamed, ever
since they told me you had gone . out
to Australia, to make a fortune, they said.
“There is not another man like you. It
was always you, even in those far-off days
when we were little more than children —
I, at least. Only you, Chris.
“How can I tell you that I am going to
marry Dick Attenborough? There, it: is
done! But seven years is a very long time,
Chris dear, and I will not always be young.
Dick is very decent—l can’t put him off
for ever. Yet I think I will die if, after
I am his wife, you come back. Can you
ever forgive me for being too small to
face life without all the things I
think make it worth living? 1 suppose
not—and yet I cannot marry Dick, much
as I like him, without just once, again tell-
ing you that all these years it has been your
image which has held me back from marry-
ing, the wild hope that you would succeed.
Always your memory will mean more to
me, the best, of me, than the company of
any other living man.
“I am crying, Chris, and I have to meet
Dick soon—l must not let him guess. Don’t
ever come back now. Not ever. It’s too
late. What dreadful words—get married
yourself. But how foolish of me! Per-
haps you have been married for years and
have long ago forgotten you ever loved,
Lettice.”
Fiercely Kent thrust the pages back into
his pocket. He should have been strong
enough to destroy the letter as he intended.
Wiser by far! Yet the written words shot
into the dark places of his mind like a
shaft of the false fire the sun threw across
the sky, glowing with a momentary bril-
liance.
His hazel eyes caught and held some of
the reflected light. They looked almost
young again. Lettice might be the wife of
another man; but it was the memory of his
love she cherished in her heart.
CHAPTER XX.
Lay-up.
It was hot. Not a breath of wind stirred
the lush grasses everywhere encroaching on
the right-of-way, or quivered the dark
massed greens of the poinciana-trees, or
scattered the scarlet petals of late blooms
hanging in the branches like little red
lamps. Early in the morning it had rained
until the streets of Broome ran in red
rivers; now from a cloudless sky of tur-
quoise, hard and brilliant except low on
the horizon, where space melted in mauve
haze to the jade and turquoise sea, the
fierce summer sun sucked the water from
the hot earth, until Peter Fordyce, walk-
ing for once; felt heat rising up from the
path, enveloping him as though he were
slowly simmering in a giant steamer.
He paused to remove his topee and wipe
his face, and immediately was hailed. He
glanced round and beheld the swarthy face
and glinting gold earrings of Horton, who
was lounging over the verandah rail of the
shi-poo shop where once Christopher Kent
had watched a sickly white barman joking
with a crowd of pearlers.
“You look as though you might feel a
little warm, Pete,” called Horton. “How
about it?”
Fordyce felt thirsty, so he went; but
the place carried only a wine and beer
license, and was run almost entirely for
the benefit of colored men, .who swarmed
there that morning in dozens. Horton
carried his glass and Peter’s on to the
verandah. From the tap-room rose a babel
of tongues—snatches of Japanese, of
Chinese, the low gutturals of Malayan dia-
lects.
“What is this I hear about Chris?” he
demanded.
“Well, what?”
“They say he’s broke. On the beach.
And that he refuses to let you carry him?
Says the old Captain can go on piiing up
debts if he likes, but that the Hon. Chris
is through with pearling. Is that true?”
Peter shrugged. “Something like it, at
any rate. He doesn’t seem to take an
interest in anything these days.” Except
whisky, he added to himself.
“And there is also a yarn doing the
rounds about that Steve Munro putting it
over him properly. Nice, kind feller.
fcste y. e *9 ne of the really good Christian
S °t? i '^* m t d’you know about it?”
Fordyce did not intend to be pumped.
Also he wondered why Horton appeared
so anxious to find out. “Go and ask Chris
yourself,” he said.
- ‘lNever see him. He just hangs round on
Jus foreshore camp; and whenever I do
run across him he’s a bit boozed and won’t
say a word. He’s that sort. Too damned
straight for this little old spot—honor and
pride and all the rest of it.”
“Get out, Horton—l won’t listen to you,”
retorted Peter, in arms at once for his dear
town. But I must admit he seems to
be unduly prejudiced against being in debt.”
Horton laughed. “He’s a pay-your-money
and look-your-fill phenomenon, that’s what
lie is! But I like him. And he saved my
hie once. That stinking yellow Malay!”
Memory inflamed Horton, but he stemmed
the torrent rising to his lips because For-
dyce looked as if he meant to go. “D’you
think he’d take a job?” he asked.
Couldn’t say,” replied Peter, and moved
away.
Peter hordyce still felt annoyed with
Ivent for insisting upon dissolving partner-
ship with the old Captain, even after he
had stretched points for them and offered
unusually generous terms—they could have
gone on for another season quite easily,
and perhaps done well; they certainly
deserved to, after such a run of bad luck.
But it appeared that hot words had passed
between the two men who possessed the
same name yet bore no tie of blood. Chris
had been very hard—with the harshness
born of yet another disillusion—about the
debts the old Captain had neglected to
explain.
Now Peter in his turn felt hard and
unsympathetic because of the abrupt turn-
ing down of his offer of assistance. He had
made it as much for June’s sake as for
Kent’s own—she had always so liked Chris.
And he had not reached that pitch of gener-
osity without a tussle, even though it was
not in Peter to watch a good man go under
and attempt no help; he had persuaded
himself that June’s letter to Chris held
no significance; he would not let it in-
fluence him in any way to act against his
better instincts, whatever it contained.
June herself could judge the change in
Chris when she saw him.
After leaving Horton, Peter overtook the
Government Resident, walking slowly and
pompously along, moving a stick with a
nice precision, and he found himself pressed
into another drink at the Residency. It
was very hot.
Mrs. Tweedie lay prone on a lounge,
fanning herself. She extended a hand with
languid grace to Peter. She would dearly
have liked him to kiss her fingers, but even
the nicest men were so obtuse; they never
made the charming little gestures they so
easily might!
"Isn’t it just dreadfully hot!” she com-
plained. "You haven’t been in to see me
for an age, Peter. And, of course, I never
go out in the summer. Quite impossible.
I’m sure I don’t know how we exist up here
at all. What an appalling place it is!”
Peter grinned. He remembered Monty
once remarking how much the women liked
to belittle a life they would never admit
to enjoying. Mrs. Tweedie was veiy much
somebody in Broome—and all the others
felt they were somebody, too, which did
much to ameliorate the long, hot, trying
months, the real and ever-present domestic
difficulties, and really made it rather
pleasant to grumble about the hardness of
their lot in being forced to live in such a
place. Peter was thankful that his own
mother was one of the few who never
wearied him with profitless complaints.
He might have felt cynical had he known
how much Mrs. Tweedie in truth longed to
escape the summer, to see her two young
daughters (she would not allow them to
come North in the hot season, and the
other school holidays were always too
short); how she considered it her duty to
stay and cook for Alfred Tweedie—she
knew too well that it would be wrong and
‘selfish of her to entrust his delicate diges-
tion to the tender mercies of hotel cooks
or half-caste maids.
“Why don’t you come more often? And
bring that nice Mr. Kent?” she asked.
“Kent?” Tweedie, returning with a tray,
caught the name. “What is this I. hear
about him? Is it true, Peter, that he has
been—er—swindled?”
“Afraid so, sir. He bought a share in a
cattle-station that man Munro had, in part-
nership with a fellow called Ryce. It
appeared they showed Chris the books and
everything., On paper it looked splendid;
but, you see, the stock-sales shown hap-
pened to be for every hoof on the run!
They’d made a clean sweep. And when
Chris came in he found they had cleared
South with his cash, and left him the
goodwill of a place with nothing on it!
His share turned out to be liabilities for
rent and so forth.”
“Disgraceful! Can nothing be done?”
“I went round with him and waked old
Grayson up, sir, and he put on his specs,
and hummed and hawed for a very long
time, but in the end he said he had to
admit it was a very shrewd piece of work,
and he did not think he could manufacture
anything like a good case out of it. I’m
afraid Chris has always been too ready
to believe in people.”
“How dreadful! Bring him round, Peter,
and let us sympathise.” Mrs. Tweedie felt
eager for diversion.
“I’ll give him your messages,” said Peter;
but, in his mind’s eye seeing Kent, spirit-
less and vague, hunched up on a stretcher
in the camp, he knew he would not come.
(To be continued next week.)


9 °« c
tv\t
W^l S
dtv
e
CM
wi*
!o\* :s<VtW e S&i
#&,]! a» d
*?i« £ «s\&>, e.V* w
Btes^r
‘-5&3&5
o tess^oW^
ease.
’ It » e wia»"S - A\aT» ev
SS?**
tt oT& a" \fttO
W ced _
*
*
itvg ®v e
6 et vice
PRICE, 65/-
With gauge, 5/- extra.
A
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.0., Box 71, Melb. C.l.
ŵ
ẁ
STOP, ANYWAY, BUT IT’S SAFER WITH
YOU’LL
SILVER
EDGED
TRADE 0 MARK REGISTERED
THE RAYBESTOS CO.
BRAKE
LINING
Insist on “RAYBESTOS”—with the Silver
Edge. Your Garageman knows it.
Costs no more than inferior lining.
Meets modern conditions of high-speed j
Driving.
ẃ
Representative: J■ ARNOLD,
GPO Box 71, Melbourne, Cl.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Waltzing Lily’s success in the Newmarket
Handicap at Flemington was another severe
blow to punters. Until she petered out so
surprisingly a long distance from home in
the Caulfield Futurity Stakes a week before,
the Beau Fils filly was strongly fancied for
the Newmarket. Her failure to pace it witn
Winooka caused Waltzing Lily to drift to
20 to 1 on the day of the race. Spectators
are wholly at a loss to divine the relative
positions of horses competing over the
straight six furlongs at Flemington. Her
rider, O’Brien, stated that Waltzing Lily
was a fair way back early, but finished very
brilliantly. After a thrilling struggle she
defeated Jacko by a head, with the Oakleigb
Plate hero, Ibraui, another head farther oft
and Winooka an equally close fourth.
Winooka and Jacko were both unlucky.
Bain had fallen steadily for three hours, and
this was in no way helpful to a horse carry-
ing 9st. 91b.; it was a great disadvantage
to Jacko, who' is far from being his best in
heavy going. Money was piled on Winooka
as starting-time approached, and he went
out at fours, a point shorter than Jacko. On
the occasion of Gothic’s second Newmarket
Handicap triumph in 1928, the imported
stallion was interfered with at a critical
stage of the contest and almost fell. Jim
Pike and his mount rose superior to that
misadventure. Pike had a remarkable ex-
perience on Saturday. A strand of the bar-
rier was broken by Parkwood; this flew
back and struck Winooka on the head, caus-
ing him to stumble. Pike lost his irons,
which were not regained until close to the
winning post. When the jockey obtained a
firm seat he called on Winooka to such won-
derful effect that the favorite just missed
a place.
Gert '."You'll never get through
VOUR ACCOUNTANCY EXANI
THIS WAV,"
Bert;*But Im studvinq a.ll the
• time *
Gert*/' Whkt V"
Bert; Figures, wiy dear, figures.
The track was so soft that it took lmin.
13isec. to cover the six furlongs, as against
the course record of lmin. established
by Waltzing Lily in the Standish Handicap
on New Year’s Day.
Veilmond (10 to 9 on) was untroubled
to win the Essendon Stakes from Cimbrian,
who tried to win all the way. Pretzel was
second favorite, but snuffed out after being
well placed at the three furlongs. Topical
created a surprise by finishing fast to gain
third place, a neck behind Cimbrian. llie
form of Denis Boy left a good deal to oe
desired. He may have been short of a
gallop. The Irish-bred stallion beat only
one horse.
Maid of Orleans, equal favorite with
Limarch for the Sires’ Produce Stakes, mis-
behaved at the post and took no part m the
race. An easy win was registered by the
Gay Lothario colt L’Elite, a 20-to-l chance,
with Heroic Lass (25 to 1) second. Shakuni,
brother to Kuvera, narrowly beat Limarch
for third money. The Brunswick Stakes
also went to a 20-to-l chance, Lord Whittier
—three of them in one day!
The St. Leger was one of the most sen-
sational on record. Punters regarded it as
a match between two Sunday horses,
Kuvera and Gaine Carrington. These colts
see-sawed .in favoritism, but ultimately
Kuvera firmed to 7 to 4, while the Maon-
land-brcd chestnut went to 9to 4. Leorge
Price gave Pike orders to ride a waiting
race on Kuvera. Fulfilment of these in-
structions may have soured the son _ ot
Brazen, who stopped suddenly after entering
the straight; but the truth probably is that
he cannot stay a mile and three-quarters.
Game Carrington made a dash to witlnu
striking distance of Oratory, four furlongs
from home. Found wanting over the last
bit, he finished fifth only. Oratory (3 to 1)
is entitled to credit for leading practically
all the way; but he just scraped home from
(10 to 1) ; Eastern Chief (15
to 1) was a close third. Oratory was bred at
Sol Green’s Underbank stud, Bacchus Marsh,
and is by Verbius from Gallantry (Lemberg
-Chivalry). The dam was bred in Eng-
land, and came to Victoria as a foal at foot
of Chivalry, whose best Australian progeny
was Knight’s Favor, by Valais.
Op St. Leger form Metallurgy must have
a great chance in the Australian Cup. He
comes down from 8.10 to 6.7. R. Medliurst,
who was to have ridden him in the long-dis-
tance handicap, will not be available, having
been suspended in Adelaide. 11. King, the
owner-trainer of Metallurgy, would be will-
ing to declare 91b. overweight to get Duncan,
but the stipendiary stewards may not sanc-
tion such action. Duncan captured the Aus-
tralian Cup of 1931 on Carry On, and Med-
liurst was successful last autumn on
Madstar. Unquestionably, Metallurgy needs a
vigorous jockey. He hung in badly m the
St. Leger, and Duncan had to ride him all
the way down the straight on one rein.
This propensity involved Metallurgy in dis-
qualification for a race at Moonee Valley at
the beginning pf December. If the colt had
kept straight on Saturday, he must have
beaten Oratory, whose winning margin was
only half a head. Oratory is handicapped
to concede Metallurgy 151 b. in the Cup,
while Eastern Chief has 101 b. more than
King’s representative. Still, Topical looks
like taking a power of. beating- and this
Page places them: Topical, 1; Metallurgy,
2; Pretzel, 3.
* * * , ■«
Dunerc evidently prefers Canterbury to
any other course, but he has been unlucky
there the last couple of meetings. Nothing
but a lost iron prevented his winning the
Canterbury Flying Handicap on February
11 ; disadvantaged as he was, he finished
faster than the two that narrowly beat him
to the post, Fordlight and Questionnaire. In
another Canterbury Flying Handicap on
Saturday he was doing better towards the
end than Questionnaire (6 to 1) and Cynical
(7 to 1), but he made his run too late.
Questionnaire had also been running con-
sistently, but unluckily. Lady Joy was favo-
rite at (5 to 2). Some bookmakers seemed
anxious to lay her before the race and while
it was in progress, though she began well
enough.
With only four third-raters to beat,
Rogerson w r as the logical favorite for the
Canterbury Handicap. He neither looks nor
gallops as well as he did about this time
last year, but he was a bit superior to the
weak opposition. Mortimer rode a nice
waiting race in front, and Rogerson (6 to' 4)
was left with a bit in reserve when tackled
by Loud Speaker (5 to 1) ; Cymore (3 to
1) was third. Rogerson ran the “eleven’ m
2min. 244 sec.
New King shares a liking for Canterbury
with Rogerson, Questionnaire and Dunerc.
He looked in wonderful trim for his task
in the Ashbury Handicap, and he bounded
to the front and was never headed. When
Nachara made a dash at him in the straight
he rushed away again, and was three lengths
to the good at the end, Australian Belle
being third. So many were backed in this
race that the ringmen called 9 to 2 the field,
New King, Cylauta and Confab being at that
price ; Nachara was at 5 to 1.
It is seldom that a horse of Booth’s goes
out unbacked, but the Roseliill crowd did
not put a shilling oil Fleet, a daughter ot
Caravel and Suntilla, for the Juvenile
Handicap. She won nicely, and, in addi-
tion to giving McShortodds a skinner, re-
turned £29 10s. for 10s. (there were three
divs.) on the grandstand tote. She was not
the only outsider to score, High Degree (14
to 1), a Heroic-Camisole filly, downing two
well-backed ones, Ephialtes and Jeannie
McNisli, in a division of the Highweight
Handicap. High Degree ran about a lot
in the straight, and had Jeannie McNisli
come second there would probably have been
a protest. Shrewd followers of the game
did not forget that High Degree had been
beaten pointless by Cabaret (Spelthorne—
Lita) at Warwick Farm. Backed down to
5 to 2, Cabaret ran away with the second
division; luckless Polydorus. the favorite (at
7 to 4), was third, Snow Sun (6 to 1)
separating them.
;}* % # 51*
For Moorefield on Saturday :
Highweight Welter: Cabaret; next, Tat-
yoo'n.
Flying Handicap: Questionnaire; next,
Curtius.
•Moorefield Handicap: Elmaros; next,
Rogerson. .
Hurstville Mile : Dunerc; next, Intrepid.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The new Sydney Stadium management is
running shows on Monday and Friday nights.
At the first Friday-night affair Alf (once
“Yank”) Henneberry (list. 91b.) accounted
for Jim Jeffries (12st. 41b.) in a 10-rounder,
having plenty of points to spare. Eddie
Stewart (lOst. 91b.) beat Art Hoare (lOst.)
in a six-rounder that was the best bout on
the bill. Lucas talks of importing represen-
tative overseas boxers, and they will, be
needed if the game is to revive. Not for
50 years has it been in such a bad way.
;tj i'fi ❖ - . #
“Corinthian Tom” : We lift the weight of
flatling years. In an account of a fight
in London for the heavyweight championship
of Britain it was reported that the winner
“downed his opponent with a terrific right,”
but had his nose “forced to bleed,” in addi-
tion to receiving a “discolored left eye.
Finally, he landed “a tremendous knock-out
on liis opponent’s nose.” In the golden days
of ‘ f the fancy,” the report would have told us
how the victor caused his opponent to seek
the horizontal by a convincing persuader to,
the boko with the dexter mawley. Then he
would have had his claret tapped and his
sinister ogle moused. Finally he would
have ended the mill with an auctioneer to the
bugle. These modern fight-reporting methods
are enough to make Ben Caunt and Jem
Belcher turn in their honored graves.
$ * *
Maoriland wrestlers Walter Browning
(list. 51b.) and King Elliott (14st.) again
mingled on the Leichhardt mat last Satur-
day night. The first fall went to Elliott in
the third round, the equaliser to Browning
in the fifth. More than once in the sixth
the lighter man seemed to pin his opponent s
shoulders for the required three seconds;
but the referee ruled against him and gave
it to Browning on points.
Ins and Outs
Looking back on the Test series just com-
pleted it must be admitted that it was no
battle of giants. In a way it was a repro-
duction of the previous series in England
—a by *no means first-class team defeated
one continually changing in personnel and
obsessed with a sense of inferiority after
the opening stages. In each case one man
on the winning side was the principal factor
iii victory: in England, Bradman’s batting;
in Australia, the bowling of Larwood. Other
members of the teams rendered valuable
assistance, but in the ultimate result their
roles played a subsidiary part.
The English team, still in Australia, is very
far from being the equal of some of its pre-
decessors. Chapman’s team of 1928-29 may
be taken as an instance. No one will assert
that the Sutcliffe and Hammond of this tour
were the batsmen they were on that occa-
sion. Wyatt was hardly a substitute for
Hendren, or Pataudi for Hobbs, to take the
parallel no further. As to the bowlers, put-
ting Larwood aside. White was a greater
bowler than Verity, Tate than Voce or
Allen, and Geary than Hammond.
The Australian side, like that in England
in 1930, was a cricket kaleidoscope in its
successive changes, Bradman, though he
naturally failed to reproduce the phenome-
nal form of his English season, proved him-
self, when all is said and done, a great bats-
man, and in the closing stages of the series
showed that he could adapt himself to
conditions which were too much for most of
his comrades. He headed the Australians
with a better average than the leading Eng-
lish batsmen, if we except Pay liter, who
played only live innings, two of which were
not-outs, due largely to his low position on
the batting list. Of the other Australian
batsmen, it cannot be said that they showed
the consistency or the will to win that one
expects from Test-match batsmen. Though
19 players were tried, the tail of the. team
proved as limp in the last match as in the
first. The bowling followed on much the
same lines. O’Reilly, worked to death
throughout the series, was definitely in the
best company. Wall also has a sound claim
to Test-match status. Of the others, with
the exception of the consistently-accurate
Ironmonger, who took wickets when he had
a pitch to suit him, the less said the better.
Man for man, after the opening batsmen,
the victors showed a solider batting fro'nt,
Voce being the only player of the regulars
who proved innocuous with the bat. This
consistency, with Larwood’s bowling, capped
by their better fielding and captaincy, was
the secret of England’s success. As a
skipper Woodfull proved unalert and lack-
ing in imagination. He used his boVvlers
far too long, and his handling of his held
showed a lack of observation and oppor-
tunism.
Summed up, Australia’s crying need for
the next English tour is a strongly rein-
forced bowling contingent and a number of
young batsmen who have the courage of un-
sophistication. In this respect the various
State associations and the Board of Control,
through its selectors, might do well to realise
that Australia is a large place with many
brilliant young players who do not reside
in the hallowed precincts of Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide.
Bradman topped the Australian batsmen
with an aggregate of 396 for seven finished
innings, averaging 56.57. His solitary cen-
tury was 103 n.o. in Melbourne. McCabe nevei
fulfilled the promise of his splendid IST n.o.
in the first match. He totalled 385 for nine
innings and averaged 42.77. No other Aus-
tralian scored a century. Of the others,
Woodfull, with 34.11 for nine completed
innings, filled fourth place. O Reilly s fine
bowling yielded him 27 wickets in spite ot
many missed chances, and an average of
96.81. Wall had the best figures. 25.66 foi
27 wickets, and he again suffered from
dropped catches. Ironmonger, with Mj
wickets for 27 runs each, was the only othei
bowler to top double figures
(Continued on next page.)


SPECIAL
RHENWEST CARTRIDGES
for
Quail Shooting
Specifications :—
GAUGE - 12.
SHOT - 1 02. British Chilled. Only in Nos. 8, 10 and 12.
POWDER- Proper load of the famous WALSRODE.
Will kill quail at the full range of your gun, and there is no
recoil.
The price is made as low as possible so that your sport will
not be too expensive.
The- Rhenwest-Walsrode combination is
rapidly becoming the leading cartridge for trap-
shooting.
At the February shoots in Northern Victoria,
Mr. S. C. Dubout won the Northern District
championship at Koondrook, was runner-up in
the Commonwealth Championship at Kerang, and
was a winner in 17 out of a total of 20 events
extending over three days.
Mr. Dubout used Rhenwest Cartridges.
Loaded in Australia by —
HARVEY SHAW
SUCCESSORS
LONSDALE STREET, MELBOURNE.
ASK .YOUR LOCAL STOREKEEPER
Ins and Outs
Left with lt»4 runs to make in the last
innings of the fifth Test in Sydney, England
accomplished the job comfortably. Sutcliffe
was off his oats, so Jardine took Wyatt in
with him, and 43 had been hoisted when the
skipper went to a catch by Richardson off
Ironmonger for 24. The same bowler imme-
diately hit Leyland’s stumps, and H&mmond
replaced the Tyke. Purposeful and attractive
batting saw mm and Wyatt get the required
runs. Wyatt was 61 and Hammond 75, the
Gloucestershire man ending the business
with a sixer—a glorious shot. Ironmonger’s
two wickets cost 34 runs, but none of the
bowlers looked formidable at any time. Jar-
dine’s success in winning four Tests out of
five places him in line with Warner and
Chapman, who turned the trick in Aus-
tralia in 1911-12 and 1925-29 respectively.
Each country has now won 51 games
* « « #
“Gonfalonier”: The crisis that has been
brooding over the Test matches looked like
coming to a bloody head in Sydney the other
day when it was discovered that Warner’s
flag, which he has carried about with him
for years on cricket tours as a mascot, was
missing. The C. 1.8. was mobilised, and it
is alleged that the British ambassadors were
on the verge of breaking off diplomatic rela-
tions with this country. At the last moment
the ofiflamme was discovered. It had been
hung, according to custom, over a seat
sacred to the visiting players in front of
their dressing-room. It had slipped to the
floor unnoticed, to be picked up by a world-
ling connected with the ground cleaning
staff and thrown into a cupboard used for
storing cleaning rags. No one who has seen
the decrepit bit of bunting will blame the
ground official. On appearance, the lamp-
cleaner of a municipal garbage punt would
scorn to include it among his professional
apparatus.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: In spite of the Fiji-banana
threat, Queensland patronised its Test match
in Brisbane with record liberality. The total
attendance of 93,000 was 20,000 in excess of
that which saw Chapman’s team in the first
Test ever played in Brisbane; the profit is
£3BOO, as against £1938 in 1928. The
system of reserving grandstand seats, which
Sydney and Melbourne declare to be im-
practicable, again proved a big success.
* * * $
“Shrewsbury” : Being a Winchester and
Oxford man, Jardine probably still retains a
smattering of the classics. I like to think of
him murmuring Et tu, Brute! when he read in
"S. M. Herald” that Neville Card us thought
it would be “deplorable to see cricket con-
trolled by a View so stern and joyless as Jar-
dine’s.” After that, the further assertion that
Jardine was. reg-arded in Australia “almost as
was the Kaiser in 1914” is something of au
anti-climax. AVriter cannot recall any
Hillite advocating that the English skipper
be hanged, and that was the mildest fate
recommended for AATliam TT. in 1914.
**- * *
“Five AVays”: Queensland Cricket Asso-
ciation is to be commended for throwing out
a suggestion of one delegate that a mob of
southern cricketers be imported to improve
the standard of Queensland cricket. Years
ago this was the regular thing, and for a
long time the State Eleven was made up of
men, mostly in the sere and yellow as far
as cricket was concerned, brought up from
Sydney and given jobs in Brisbane. One
firm in particular made such a welter of
the practice, primarily with the idea of
acquiring the strongest club in Queensland
cricket, that local men, however promising,
had no earthly hope, and many dropped out
of the game. There is plenty of talent in
Queensland, and much of it outside Bris-
bane. That city is not big enough to confine
its selection to the metropolitan area while
ignoring country players, as is the Sydney
practice.
* * # *
“Hotham”: Keith Rigg. who replaced
AA ©odfull as Afictoria’s skipper for the
State’s return match with England in Mel-
bourne, has suffered somewhat from the
slings and arrows of cricket fortune. Last
season he played in four Tests against South
Africa, and finished third in the averages
with 50.6. This season he was dropped early
from the Victorian Eleven, and only lucky
chance has brought him back.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin” : Hawkes told a Geelong audi-
ence that he doubted if Viv McGrath would
be a success in Europe, for the first season
at any rate. At the same time he thought
that the youngster’s double-handed back-
hand would rattle a lot of his opponents
until they got used to it, while there was
no doubt the experience of the first tour
should bring him into the top class. Hawkes
added that while Crawford might be re-
gaided ns the third- or fourth-best player in
world, he had yet to prove it overseas,
Quist would probably improve out of sight,
while Turnbull might easily prove the sur-
prise packet of the tour.
*.* * *
hi- F. Cronin, who landed in Sydney on
a pleasure tiip last week, is one of Ireland’s
leading tennis-players and was reserve for
the Ii isli Davis Cup team last year. Cronin
has represented Ireland against England for
the last three years and was runner-up in
the Irish championship 0 f 1931. During his
fortnight s stay in Sydney the visitor intends
to play tennis and lie will go home in the
the ship in which the Australian
Davis Cup team sails.
* * =l= *
"Rev. Knucklebone”: Australia put up -at
least one world s tennis record in Sydney the
other day. In a doubles game in a Dulwich
llill competition match four players battled
for three hours, the set running to 94 games
The players could hardly lift their arms to
serve at the end, and it is not surprising that
when they literally tottered off the court
they declined to pl ay again that day. The
names of the heroes are R. and C. Thomas,
of Avoca, and Shaw and Hargrave, of Hillal-
den.
The Nineteenth Hole
, nnu ®l competition for the N.S.AV.
at’ 1 i' v? ,; s y ear drew a record entry to
Manly links, the field numbering 416, many
of whom were visitors from other State!
One player, C. 0. Ruwald, formerly of
Sydney, flew down specially from Brisbane
to play. There was a considerable immi-
gration of caddies from other clubs on both
sides of the harbor and a number of these
slept on the grass the previous night. All
reaped the reward of their enterprise, far
the demand for tlieir services was heavy.
The cup was won by L. E. Carter, of Parra-
matta club, who had the fine score of five
up from the five-mark. The performance
was the best recorded to date, the winner’s
round being 71. C. H. Fawcett was one up
in the scratch score, Carter finishing square.
“Dig”: Ever notice that the same mau
never wins an A.I.F. Golf Cup twice, or
comes anywhere near it? None of the pre-
vious winners w<as so much as sighted in
the field that surged round the Manly links
last week, and the bacon was landed as usual
by a virtual outsider. L. E. Carter has a
handicap of 5 at Parramatta. He was much
better on Wednesday than C. H'. Fawcett;
THE RULING PASSION.
RRVELLER: “Shay, you chaps; don’t crowd me on the leg side. Jolly unsporting of
you, what?”
yet the Royal Sydney crack could probably
lick him badly every other day of the week.
All one can say for certain about I;he A.I.F.
Cup is that a scratch man isn’t likely to win
it. In a field of three or four hundred
someone with a handicap in the neighbor-
hood of 18 is always liable to do amaMng
things, and turn in a card that gives him a
net score in the early sixties.
* * * *
“R. Bay”: Dissatisfaction is general, and
derision audible, over the grouping of the
A-grade (Sydney) golf clubs this year. Thus
Royal Sydney and Long Reef have been
placed in the same division. R.S. is champion-
ship length, L.R. is hundreds of yards short
of it; R.S. is profusely and cunningly bun-
kered, L.R. has no hunkers that matter a
hoot to a player who is better than average;
the fairways on the long course at R.S.
are narrow, at L.R. they are mostly wide.
Long Reef has some useful performets—-E.
D. Morton, for example, who was runner-up
for the A.I.F. Cup last week, and Gordon
Thompson, who is a hard man to beat any-
where —but the fact remains that it is essen-
tially n ladies’ links.
* * * *
“H'otham”: Victoria’s golfers, like those
in other States, are finding the demands oi'
the game hard to keep up with. Some time
ago a public links of nine holes was
opened at National Park, Heidelberg, it
being thought that it would be plenty big
enough for that rural dorp. So heavy has
been the rush that the course is to be ex-
tended to a full one of 6088 yards, and the
addition of the extra nine holes is now
well under way, the fairways and rough
being in process of ploughing and Freak-
ing up, while the foundations of several
new greens have been completed. The long-
est of the new holes will be 550 yards, and
the numbering of the holes will be altered,
those on the new section running from 1 to
9 and on the old from 10 to 18. Relief-fund
money has enabled the employment of many
workless men.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: It is pretty well settled
that Sarazen will visit Australia this
year, making his landfall some time in
October and playing exhibition matches.
He will probably have Joe Kirkwood and
Walter H'agen as companions. The tour of
Hagen and Kirkwood some time ago did a
lot to improve the standard of Australian
golf, and the same much-needed result may
be hoped for in this instance. Kirkwood,
who arranged the last visit with the aid of
some Melbourne friends, is fixing up this one.
* * * *
“Susie Swattit”: At the'annual meeting
of the Victorian Ladies’ Golf Union, quite
a lot of teal business was got through in
the intervals of discussing the merits of
the winter fashions. There was a profit
of £56 on the season, and the inter-
national women golfers’ fund is now £l5l
in credit. This fund will go towards the
cost of a women’s golf team from overseas
when one can be induced to come. It was
decided that the Australian championships
should be played on the Metropolitan club’s
course and the State ditto at Yarra Yarra.
The clubs will have to be formally asked for
their consent, but, since the girls have
decided, that is a mere detail.
Car and Cycle
“Dead Centre”: Maoriland motorists are
exercised over a new “continual combustion"
engine -which is now being produced in
England from designs prepared in Auckland
for the Williams rotary engine and further
developed by Joseph Maina, the original de-
signers of Campbell’s Blue Bird. Details
of the new invention are being kept secret,
but a Maoriland company has found the
money for its exploitation on the English
market. Special features are the complete
elimination of carbon monoxide gas by con-
suming it as part of the power. The fuel
used is a mixture of heavy oil and water
gas, which necessitates two fuel tanks, one
for oil and the other for water, but the
engine’s performance is extremely economi-
cal. There is a separate combustion chamber,
into which the oil and water are projected
at high pressure through atomisers, the mix-
ture igniting in this chamber when the high
pressure gas is fed to the cylinders. The heavy
oil used costs only 4d. a gallon, and the
design of the engine greatly simplifies engine
manufacture as at present practised. An
eight-cylinder car fitted with the new engine
will be seen in the Shivery Isles shortly.
“Formula”: The system of motor-car
handicapping adopted by Brooklands last
season abolishes time and distance starts.
The track is set out so that three different
courses are available. These are of the same
distance, the smallest cars following the
course which gives a clear run. Medium cars
must run between rows of flagged sandbanks
oft. high, which call for cornering, braking
and accelerating. The speed of the high-
powered cars will be checked by turns and
corners of still greater severity. Speed
checks on each course are so arranged as to
bring the average lap speed of each class
to a common figure. The new idea enables
a massed start of all contestants, as in horse-
racing.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: For some time Queens-
land motor-cyclists have been trying to in-
duce the controlling body to hold either the
annual Tourist Trophy or the Australian
Grand Prix race in Bananaland. Now
comes news that N.S.W. will again stage
the Australian T.T. .event, while Victoria
has been allotted the Grand Prix. Though
Queensland has sent competitors to the
southern States for these events, and is a
member of the controlling body, its claims
have been ignored. Queensland’s Kingston
course is the equal of any circuit in Aus-
tralia, and the monopoly of the classics by
the southerners has roused a feeling of re-
sentment which may or may not lead to
secession.
* *. * *
“Perdrop”: Nicholson (B. l/2/’33) is
not the only cyclist trying to better Humbles’s
record for a year’s continuous riding. Mario
Gaioni is making the attempt in Italy, and
L. G. Murray and his wife, riding tandem
in England, are bent on raising the limit
to 4S,(X)O miles. Humbles’s average for the
year worked out at 100.3 miles per day.
Nicholson, who has already covered over
6000 miles and is well ahead of schedule,
hopes to average 110 m.p.d.
Miscellaneous
“Aileron”: Britain’s very latest thrill in
sport is “dirt-track” racing by glider ’planes.
The races take place round a small circuit
marked by pylons, and the ’buses are
equipped with motor-cycle engines to supply
the necessary power for following a defined
course. Photographs show the engine pro-
peller attached to the top of the single-
winged ’planes directly over the pilot’s seat,
by what an Irishman might call a six-legged
tripod. Big crowds are following the new
sport, and of course bookmakers are operat-
ing.
* s;s $ *
“Haggard”: The ancient and honorable
sport of hawking is being revived in Britain.
It has lingered in a few out-of-the-way cor-
ners, but in 1927 the Hawking Club was
compelled to close. It has now been
reorganised under the title of the British
Falconers’ Club, and already a surprising
response is noticeable. Hawking is a sport,
for open spaces, and should be one worth
cultivating here. Australia has the true pere-
grine, goshawk and sparrowhawk, the
three principal types of hawk used. These
may be employed against all types of birds,
from bustards to skylarks, as well as against
hares and other small ground game. The
difficulty is the time and care required in
training the hawks, but, since the sport
entails much hard riding, it should appeal
to Australians of the outback. Hawks and
even eagles are still employed in the sport
by many Asiatic nations, including the
Bedouin of Sinai, as the Australian Light
Horsemen discovered.
❖ :!: *
The annual report of the N.S.W. liugby
Union, presented at the 59th annual meet-
ing in Sydney, gave cheering evidence of the
rapid growth of the amateur code in Aus-
tralia during the past few years. In addi-
tion to Queensland’s return to the fold, the
Victorian R.U., after many years of inter-
rupted existence, has been permanently
established ; last winter it fielded 27 clubs
in the senior competitions alone. The West-
ralian Union also continued on its way with
marked success, and last season saw the
Union established in South Australia* with
six clubs, while preparations have been made
for the formation of a Union in Tasmania.
'When that is done the code will be in
action in all the Australian States for the
first time in the game’s history here. One
great advantage the Union game enjoys over
its rivals in Australia is the opportunity for
international tours. In addition to the visit
to South Africa this coming season (the
Australian side leaving Australia on April
25) invitations have been received from
Ceylon, India, Japan and the Argentine.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
I
ill
Ohs m
it u tu
!!JSK
}*
oi'!
m
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Bailway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals, from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast, from . . 12/6
’Phone: F 4141 (10 lines).
The “Keepdry"
GUARANTEED
OILSKIN
RAINCOAT.
Not just a shower-proof Coat, but
a serviceable Oilskin that carries
our guarantee for one year. Made
of Japparra Silk in Black or Yel-
low. Protective front, storm col-
lar and cuffs, and made double
throughout. Send Height and
Chest Measurements. Obtainable
in two styles:—
Walking, 79/6; Riding, 84/-
Send your Order to Desk S.B.
PIKE
BROTHERS, LIMITED,
IN QUEEN STREETBRISBANE
And at Longreach, Toowoomba, Townsville.
Amusements.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
WALTZES FROM VIENNA.
KING’S THEATRE:
ATHENE SEYLER and NICHOLAS HANNEN in
THE CAT’S CRADLE.
"THE BARRIER MINER ”
will have its 45th birthday on March 1 ’•
Forty-five glorious years in the mos
Look-alive town in Australia. What a
record. The town is better shopped
than ever it was, and its newspaper,
“The Barrier Miner,” has come up 4o
the scratch Twice a day at least for tne
past 45 years. The only newspaper in
Broken Hill covering the whole ot tne
Far West. Biggest sales West or
Sydney.
BACKACHE
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Gout,
Sciatica, Gravel, Stiffness, Kidney
and Bladder Trouble.
get relief this way.
If weak, worn-out, easily tired; if age
is creeping on you, look to your kid y->
Where the trouble lies Weak btog
deadly poisons into the blood, y _
is guaranteed by promptly taking H
• i, Pills These are made to a doc
prescription*! which has helped thousand
and is guaranteed to give relief with he
“ry first bottle. Just go to thejhem ‘
Isk for a 3/- package of f
rofd"not freed fro m yo r a : ,
aches, swellings and dizzy spells
3/- is returnable in full.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre Queenslands
Distinguished Social Lite.
The Rachel Forster Hospital is spreading
its wings—in a protecting not a flighty
manner. Last Saturday a new wing was
opened by Lady Game. This holds 20 beds
and an up-to-date operating theatre, and
from now on there will be two resident medi-
cal officers. This is rather a big jump from
the small beginnings of 1922, when a group
of women doctors planted their standard m
Lansdowne-street, Surry Hills, and com-
menced their unremitting fight against dis-
ease in the interests of women and children.
A few years later, the hospital moved to
its present home in Redfern, and as Lady
Forster had shown a great interest in the
work it was named the Rachel Forster Hos-
pital. The hospital has been run and
manned by women. It has a staff of 33
honoraries. It is free of debt. No wonder
its committee faces the future with smiling
eyes.
The great show of the week is the Julian
Ashton exhibition. Strictly speaking, it is
an exhibition of the works of Julian’s pupils,
but behind the brush and pencil is the influ-
ence of the little grey master who for 50
years has taught art in Sydney. There are
400 works in the exhibition, drawn from
the National Art Gallery and various pri-
vate collections, and the signatures are all
well known, while many are famous.
Forty-three years ago Julian established
the Sydney Art School, and here during the
decades came George Lambert, Hilder,
Elioth Gruner, B. E. Minns, Syd Ure Smith,
Fred Leist, J. S. Watkins, Wolinski,
Julian’s son Howard, Thea Proctor, Roy de
Mestre and many others whose names are
known to art buyers throughout Australia.
And every one of them who could manage
to be in Sydney for the occasion of the open-
ing cro'wded with wives and daughters into
the Education Department’s Gallery to hear
Charles Lloyd Jones (a one-time pupil)
make the preliminary speech. When he
referred to Julian as the “father of art in
Australia” old students of the Sydney Art
School raised a mighty shout. In short, it
was Julian’s hour.
Mrs. Ashton and Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones
were among those who occupied the little
gold chairs with which the dais was set.
Mrs. Jones wore one of the new up-to-the-
neck frocks in black, and flat against its
neckline lay an antique silver necklace.
The Marquess of Hertford (he’s a smaii
white-haired man with a pink and white
skin), who stayed in Sydney with Oswald
Cheeke while the Otranto went on to the
North, spent nearly all his days on the
beach ; in the evening a bridge party, or at
the wildest a Government House dinner
party, whs his entertainment. If Sydney
ladies had meant to be a little mischievous
over his skirt-dancing in the dead days
beyond recall, he had an impregnable line of
defence. Whenever a lady said to him “We
met when you were in Sydney some years
ago,” the Marquess hauled off, looked her
in the eye and said: “Glad to meet you
again. It’s 39 years since I was in Sydney.”
Whereat the lady suddenly lost interest in
his former visit.
Though guns thunder in Jehoi Sydney still
has faith in the League of Nations and the
international spirit. At the first meeting
for the annual International Ball one
who showed grave and courteous interest in
the proceedings was the Consul-General for
China, Dr. Chen. The Governor’s lady
graced the meeting, and now all hands
and the cook will be busy over the
organising, for the date fixed is April 5,
and this leaves just about a month for pre-
paring. Attorney-General Harry Manning
came along with words of cheer and an
apology for the absence of Premier Stevens.
Belgium’s Consul-General will, as usual, pro-
duce the pageant which is always a pictorial
part of the evening. France’s Consul-
General Dussap and Marquis Ferrante,
Italy’s Consul-General, gave moral support
by their presence. The Chief Justice’s lady
was elected president. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax
w 7 ill act as chairwoman.
A cheery procession of cocktail parties
(Gretel Bullmore and the J. J. Rouses spon-
sored two of the gayest) ushered Pat Sayers
and Bill Bishop into matrimony; and, after
they had been duly made one by padre F. T.
Perkins within St. Mark’s, a cocktail rally
of some dimensions at the home of the bride’s
parents sped them on their honeymoon. The
bride is the eldest daughter of the George
Sayers couple, of Vaucluse; Bill’s mother
is Mrs. Colin Beatty, of Woollahra, and lie
himself hails from Wootton, Scone.
That autumn has stolen on us unawares
was evidenced by the white dahlias that
decked the church. A sheaf of water-lilies
was carried by the bride, who was arrayed
in magnolia satin and tulle. Pink gladioli
and a Patou-pink crepe frock went well with
sister Joan’s.looks. She was the only brides-
maid.
Mrs. G. K. Jeffrey, of Mingoola station,
Tenterfield, whose sudden death shocked a
wide circle of Sydney relations and friends,
was Bill Bishop’s aunt, and it had been
her intention to hostess a dinner dance at
the Australia last Thursday as a round-off
to the festivities. Apparently m the best
of health, Mrs. Jeffrey had been enjoying a
little round of gaieties ; on the evening ot
her collapse she attended a theatre, and
was having supper at the Australia when
she suddenly complained to her companion
of feeling ill. She was rushed to hospital,
but died the following day before her hus-
band or son could reach her, even by plane.
It was high-water mark socially at the
Lyceum Club when Miss Crowdy, who
sails for England at the end of the month,
was being farewelled last Thursday, night.
Miss Crowdy is one of the Lyceum s most
popular members, and she has found time,
in spite of her numerous activities at Gov-
ernment House, to be the hon. president ot
the club’s music circle. Possibly this was
one of the jobs she liked best, for she is a
brilliant musician. The Governor and Lady
Game were at this party, she very slim and
pretty in a frock of off-white satin.
a touch' of wisdom (the night was stifling
and the club was crowded), she had brought
a fan. It was large, and its plumes were long
and pale pink. A pink posy deepened the color
note. Miss Crowdy in cruiser-grey laces
toned in with the jade of Miss Elizabeth
Plummer’s frock when that lady handed
over a portfolio of the autographed works
of a group of Sydney’s best-known com-
posers. The illuminated inscription on the
portfolio deserves a special word; the let-
tering, done by a Lyceum member, was a
thing of joy, and was read by Mrs. Foster
Matjei in resonant tones.
This is Muriel Keid, B.Sc., the Roseville
girl who has just won the 12 months’ scholar-
ship in re-
search at the
Man Chester
U n i v ersity
offered by the
Mane hester
branch of the
E n g 1 i s h-
Speaking
Union. This
scholarship is
sponsored by
Lord Derby,
and was open
ro graduates
of Australian,
Canadian and
U.S.A. un i-
v er sities.
Muriel, who
is a spark-
ling brunette,
is a Presby-
terian Ladies’
College gir 1,
and was for a time industrial chemist
at Nestles’; then she was appointed bio-
chemist at the Royal North Shore Hospital.
Bio-chemistry will be one of her subjects
at the Manchester University, and she will
also give a good deal of time to laboratory
work in clinical bio-chemistry and blood
chemistry of abnormal obstetrical condi-
tions. Muriel is a daughter of the Rev.
G. R. Reid, of Roseville.
Rabbits and romance were oddly inter-
mingled in the life of George Roper on Tues-
day of last week. After a day of keen de-
bate at the Rabbit Pest Conference—he
was a delegate from Bmnaway—lie left
for St. Augustine’s Church, Neutral Bay,
pausing to change his clothes at his father s
house in Mosman (father was one of the
pillars of the Lands Department till his
retirement last year) ; at St. Augustine s he
was married to Daisy Goodlet, who wore
magnolia satin, trimmed with Honiton lace.
A train of the same material, mounted on
cut tulle, was borne by little Maureen Leslie
Burlev whose dress was a miniature of the
bride’s.’ The ’maids, Theo Pockley and Doro-
thea Webb, wore yellow organdie, and car-
ried shower bouquets of Shasta daisies.
Ralph and Phil Roper supported their
brother. The reception was at the Mosman
home of the bride’s sister, Mrs. J. E. Webb.
“Collits’ Inn,” the Australian musical
plav that had so successful an opening at
the Savoy Theatre in December, is to have
a three-night run at the Mosman Town
Hall, starting on March 11. Mrs. Varney
Monk the composer, is introducing several
new numbers into the already spirited show.
“Collits’ Inn” is an example of what can be
built by the dramatist from the historic and
romantic material in Australia. The author,
T. Stuart Gurr, is now engaged on a nlm
scenario of the play.
One of Tassie’s keenest fisherwomen. who
lures the wily salmon-trout to rise at Lake
Leake, is a member of the famous Churchill
family, which had Marlborough as a
progenitor. She's popular Miss Simmonds,
who keeps house for her brother in the liun-
dred-years-old homestead on his estate,
Churchill, at Richmond. Much travelled
in youth (she went to school for a while in
Paris), she is one of the best housewives
in the district; makes jam of infinite,
variety, brews home-made beer for all-comers,
can drive her own car or a pair of horses,
and turn her hands to any domestic device.
Novelist A. E. W. Mason, who walked
down the gangway of the Cathay to have a
hurried look at Hobart, was interviewed
there. He distributed bouquets among Aus-
tralian women writers, picking (for the top
of his basket) Katharine Prichard, of West-
ralia, and the Barnard-Eldershaw pair.
After 11 years in America Ruby McDonald
has brought her violin back to Australia,
and it will
sing for its
first Sydney
audience for
more than a
decade at
1 J li a r a oh’s
Club on March
28. Rub y,
who was a
pupil of
Staell, travel-
1e d through
America from
Montreal to
New Orleans
on the strength
and sweetness
of her fiddle’s
note. Much of
her work was
with school
o r c h e straw,
which in
American
cities are worked up to a great strength
and efficiency. Lecture recitals at the sum-
mer schools were also an important feature
of her profession. In New York her own
concerts were given at the Plaza Hotel, Mark
Sheldon’s lady, when Mark was Australia’s
Commissioner, being a great supporter of her
talented countrywoman. Photo, by The
Bulletin photographer.
“Please send me a bean from the honey-
locust tree” is the request that is constantly
coming to the Prince Alfred auxiliary since
the news of the sale of Burdekin House was
published. The beautiful old tree is one of
the joys of the courtyard. It was the bean
of the honey-locust, according to some
authorities, which furnished nourishment for
St. John the Baptist when he went into
the wilderness; though this Letter had
always imagined his fare consisted of honey
and locusts —the gay little chaps that chirp
all through the summer in the treetops. The
Women Pioneers will be the first tenants
to move out of Burdekin. They popped along
and snapped up the two front ground-floor
rooms of the old Warrigal Club. There’s a
kitchen, too, attached, and the members will
show what it can do on March 14, when they
will give the first party in their new home.
The C.W.A. exhibition of' handicrafts and
home industries will be opened on April 18
in the “Sun” building; a series of demon-
strations in spinning, rug-making, tapestry-
weaving, lace-making, bookbinding and at
least a dozen more occupations for clever
hands have been arranged for the three
weeks during which the show will-be open.
The Society of Arts and Crafts is co-operat-
ing.
Artist Florence Lake has passed through
Sydney on her way to Brisbane. Her trip
was not without incident; when they had
been in England only three weeks Mrs. Liv-
ingstone, with whom Florence was travel-
ling, had a radio to say that Mr. Living-
stone was seriously ill in New Guinea. Of
course, a rush trip back to Australia was
the consequence. On the voyage home Miss
Lake went down with a sharp attack of
pneumonia and had “a narrow escape from
a moist burial.”
The Central Council of the Women’s
Auxiliary to the New South Wales Society
for Crippled Children is made up of three
delegates from each of 16 auxiliaries and
of members nominated each year by the
board of directors. The society is the out-
come of a Rotary Club survey of the State’s
crippled children. The case of every child
on the register is closely watched, and any
difficulties regarding transport and educa-
tion are discussed with the parents by the
welfare officer of the society. As some of
the children have to attend hospital three
times a week, transport is one of the big
problems. Most districts provide a hospital-
transport service, and during the past year
488 children were regular passengers. During
the same period Mrs. Margaret Watts visited
612 homes, and covered 5000 miles in her
work of investigation. Over 800 women
came to the yearly meeting of the Central
Council, which was held in the David Jones
auditorium, and after the report had been
digested, and Lady Game had uttered words
of praise for the good work, and Mrs. Muscio
and knight Henry Braddon and Professor
Harvey Sutton had voiced further pleas for
the handicapped child, everybody gathered
around the flower-decked tables and sipped
the cup of cheer.
Coral Brown, who acts in a most sophis-
ticated .manner as the wife of the Spanish
Minister in “The Command to Love,” is
not yet 20. In Melbourne she became a
commercial artist, and put in two years at
this work, all the time studying elocution
as a sideline. She played in two Repertory
productions, conducted by Gregan McMahon,
and thus came under the notice of J.C.W.,
who offered her a contract.
Bright-faced Evelyn Simpson looked in on
The Bttt.t f.ttiv at five o’clock in the evening
on which she was rushing off on her new job
of inspecting and organising for the Bush
Nursing Association. Her circuit is a far-
flung one, and she has to visit each B.N.A.
centre in turn. Miss Simpson is well quali-
fied for her work, having had actual experi-
ence of bush nursing when she was attached
to the Finley Centre. For the past three
years she has been sister-in-charge of Prince
Alfred’s radium clinic. She was for a time
an Australian Inland Mission nurse, being
stationed at Marranboy in the Northern
Territory.
The panel of Hilders lent to the Sydney
Art School exhibition by Howard Hin-
ton drew this Letter with an insistence not
to be denied. Beauty . and poetry indeed
lived in this ill-starred young artists brain
and brush. Notable pictures are “The Stable
Yard of the Currency Lass Inn’ in I arra-
matta and some immortalised. “Boatsheds
at Berowra.” There are a bit of Dora Creek,
soft in the dying day;. an oil-painting of
Foley’s Bay, Hawkesbum River, and a pic-
turc of a girl . m a sailing-boat, somewhere
out beyond the Heads, on an illimitable sea
of blue.
If the aesthetic little band of North Shore
line wallpainters, shepherded a year or two
ago by Mrs. A. T. Anderson, is still going
strong, it might take a hint or two from a
fresco adorning the dining-room of a London
bachelor’s flat. This is the work of the flat s
owner, who, against a baroque E lorentine
background, has painted 80 of his friends,
among them Lady Diana Cooper, dressed as
a Botticelli mermaid with golden hair float-
ing about her shoulders. Lady Milbanke,
Sydney’s Sheila Chisholm that was, is among
the company. Randolph. Churqhill is stand-
ing on the balcony of a temple blowing an
enormous trumpet.
Brisbane breezes in :
Mrs. Forgan Smith is to direct a work stall at
the Government House fete for the Crippled
Children’s Fund, and she arranged a benefit therefor,
receiving the hundreds of guests at the rose pergoja
on Parliament House lawn. Lady Wilson, in
grey with black and white spots and a cream
pandean straw', was accompanied by her daughter
wearing spring green and ivory and cream hat.
Mrs. Forgan Smith wore brown; Mrs, Greene was
in pale mauve crepe de Chine and a pink hat; the
Blair lady wore brown with a lacquer-red toque;
Mrs. A. E. Moore chose grey; Mrs. Percy Pease,
black; Mrs. M. P. Hynes, • citron and cherry.
Lady Wilson and her daughter met Peter Wilson
at South Brisbane when he arrived on holiday from
the Riverina, where he is jackerooing on Togarmaine
station. Peter, like his father, is keen on cricket
and surfing.
Two old Queensland families were joined by the
marriage of M. F. Bigge, son of Mrs. Bigge, Tm-
wong, and Judith, daughter of the late T. H.
Brown and Mrs. Brown, Ascot. The ’groom is a
grandson of Graham Hart, and the bride a grand-
daughter of Samuel Griffith. The bride, who was
given away by her brother, T. S. G. Brown, wore
ivory romaine cut on 9evere lines and a veil of
ivory silk tulle caught with orange blossom. Betty
Youngman ’maided in heather pink. The old family
home of the Griffiths, Merthyr, at New Farm, was
thrown open for the reception. It was from here
the bride’s mother was married.
Hazel, daughter of the J. Morrisons, Warwick, is
engaged to Arthur Schneider, son of the H.. J.
Schneiders, Albion, Brisbane.
There was an art evening at the Authors and
Artists’ Association. Stanhope Hobday presided and
Jeanette Sheldon and Roy Parkinson gave papers
on art. Merna Gillies arranged the music; pictures
by Stanhope Hobday, Roy Parkinson, Ashton Murphy
and Mrs. A. E. Reuter were displayed on the walls.
The death at Cheltenham, England, of Mrs.
Emelyn Gore recalls memories: of Queensland
hostesses of the past. As a little gill she wen
through the Indian Mutiny ; she could remember her
mother sleeping with a weapon under her pillow, and
saw an English officer shot down by Sepoys. Mrs.
Gore spoke several languages and had much personal
Thomas William Starkie took to wife Evelyn May
S’kinner in All Saints’, Brisbane. The bride, who
was given away by her father, was in ivory bridal
satin and tulle veil. Mona Parker and Eva Hamdton
’maided in cherry. The feasting was at the Majestic
Csifc • *
Over 200 people went to the bridge evening m
aid of the Crippled Children’s Fund, arranged by
tte staff of the National Bank Mr F J.
who is treasurer of the fund, and Mrs. Morgan
received the guests.


w
ŵ
MEMORISE WITH
EASE.
Pass Examinations,
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Booklet Free.
REV. W. ROWLANDS,
12 Younger Crescent, Caultield,
S.E.B, Melbourne.
Legal Notice.
R E EVA BLANCH MONTEITH late of Sydney in
the State of New South Wales Spinster deceased
Notice is hereby given that all creditors and other
persons having Claims against the Estate of the
abovenamed Eva Blanch Monteith late of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales deceased who died
on or about the first day of June 1931 at Sydney
in the said State are hereby required to send their
claims to the Local Deputy Public Curator Towns-
ville oil or before the twenty-ninth day of August
1933. And that after the expiration of the last-
date the said] Locjal Deputy Public
Curator will proceed to distribute the assets of the
said deceased amongst the parties entitled thereto
having regard only to the claims of which he shall
then have had notice.
Dated this twenty-fourth day of February 1933.
J. O’DUFFY,
Local Deputy Public Curator,
Townsville.
Patents.
FUEL PUMP AND DISTRIBUTING
APPARATUS FOR INTERNAL COM-
BUSTION ENGINES.
THE Proprietor of Commonwealth' Patent
No. 1250/31 is prepared to negotiate
tor the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MOULD-RILLING
MACHINES.
THE proprietors of Commonwealth Patent
No. 20005/24 are prepared to negotiate
tor the sale of their xights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia. Particulars of the
invention obtainable from Griffith, Hassel
and Griffith, Patent Attorneys, Sydney.
THE FARMER’S FRIEND
The paper for
THE MAN ON THE LAND
is
THE PERTH
For over 36 years the leading weekly news-
paper in Western Australia has been in close
touch with the Man on the Land in all his
activities—it has been his friend and guide.
The farming pages of the big Western weekly
newspaper are a fund of information for
settlers, hence the reason why the circulation
of “The Sunday Times” in the rural centres
of W.A. is unequalled. Wherever you go in
the Golden West —the largest town or smallest
hamlet—you will find “The Sunday Times.”
The large subscription list for direct postage
is sufficient tribute to the popularity of the
paper amongst the farmers.
NATIONAL ADVERTISERS
If you have a message for the farming com-
munity of the West, it will pay you to use
“The Sunday Times.” You will profit as
hundreds of others have done, because you do
not have to experiment here, it is a medium
proved to be in. close touch with the Man on
the Land, and remember, W.A. is the great
primary production State.
Melbourne
Chatter
Three seasons were represented in feminine
dressing on Newmarket Handicap day at
r lemington. There were marked changes in
the weather during the morning, and it
didn t require Sherlock Holmes to deduce
from their attire the hour at which women
patrons left home for the course. Those
ivho had work or shopping to do in town
before going to the races reflected the hot
northerly that commenced the day in their
diaphanous frocks and small hats. Autumn
sult »> topcoats, furs, felt and velvet hats,
woollen berets, caps and toques were favored
by those who set out later when the sky
looked stormy and the thermometer went,
down. Then came the late arrivals, who
started out when the threat became a cer-
tail v ty L wra PP ed in raincoats, armed with
umbrellas and wearing their second-best hats.
A girl who showed exceptional forethought
wore no stockings and low-heeled wouldn’t-
spon shoes. She was able to splash through
pools of water between the grandstand and
the totalisator without distracting thoughts
Ihe only good deed the rain did was to
freshen up the window-boxes across the
front .of the stand—masses of varicolored
petunias, begonias and violas—and to add
something to the charm of Flemington’s
roses. Governor Irvine came out for lunch,
but his lady gave the races a miss. Mrs
Zu K - TT S - Maekinnon, wife of the chairman of
the v.K.C., was in the committee-ladies’
box; also Mrs. Alan Currie, a study in navy
blue and white. Mrs. Richard Turnbull
was accompanied by her daughter Anne,
whose grey tweed suit was topped by a red
hat Mrs. J. Winter Irving, in black and
white, and Mrs. George Blackwood were
als< \ ? i , tlie res erve. Mrs. Leu Buxton
sported the new-fashioned toque, a turban-
esque form of millinery, wearing a red one
with her sulphur-and-black-flecked woollen
suit. Mrs. H. S. K. Ward’s black velvet
was fashioned with a cape, and went with
a white velvet toque. Nellie Veitch, of
fcydney, who accompanied Dr. and Mrs.
Edward Ryan, wore frock and hat of golden-
brown velvet. Knight Allen Taylor, of
Sydney, was there with his lady, whose
black attire was brightened with some
ermine. Mr. and Mrs. E. J. Hore, of Alburv
were there with Mrs. J. F. Nagle. Mrs.
Jim Fairbairn, of Mt. Elephant station was
smart m a bright blue frock with a white
foidedAoque. Mrs. Douglas Shennon, from
JN.o.W., renewed acquaintance with old
mends. Other visitors were the Claude
Fulmers, from the broad acres of Navui
and Madeline Page, of Sydney. Mrs. A V
Hiskens had with her her daughter, Mrs’ R
Irving, also from Sydney.
Scotland stood where she did when the
Clan Mackay Society gave a charity ball at
file Rex. There were Macs everywhere—
many of them sported the kilt—Highland
reels and sword dances punctuated the Sas-
senach styles of dancing, and a haggis was
played in by pipers. Licut.-Governor Irvine
was there with his lady, and her Ex. was
banded a bunch of rowan berries and heather
that went nicely with her sapphire-blue
gown. r. Alan Mackay, vice-president of tin-
society brought his wife, who wore jade-
green lace Others in the throng were Dr.
Alan Mackay, sen.; Mr. and Mrs. Eccles
Mackay, she with a touch of scarlet
upon her ivory satin frock; Gordon Mackay
hon. sec. of the ball; Jean Mackay, in blue
"i non = ? sobel Ma ckay, in Lido'-blue, and
Mrs. Richard Turnbull, in black satin.
Many good wishes were bestowed upon
Margaret, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Harold
Brookes, of Woodend, when her grand-
mother, Mrs. Fred Bird, gave a party in her
honor at her Toorak home on the eve of Miss
Brookes s .departure for England in the
Mongolia. She is going abroad to complete
her education. Sharing in the farewells
was Claire Murphy, who sailed in the same
nner. Mrs. Bird hostessed in a wood-brown
crepe gown, the bodice of which was enliv-
ened with ecru lace, and her daughter, Mrs.
Brookes chose a gown of the same shade,
with relief of biscuit-colored chiffon. Mrs
wh °, B ' oes voyaging i n the
Otranto; the Chauvel lady and the Allen
ady and her daughter Biddy, now on the
nigh seas, were among the guests. Also
present was Sylvia, only chick of the Alfred
Pedders, of New Town (Tas.), a school pal
ot Miss Brookes.
The coming-out party of Betty, daughter
\ Geoige Nicholas, of Toorak, gave her
mends an opportunity to say “au revoir ”
tor she has since sailed for Europe, where
she will spend two years, including a sojourn
m Fans to study music and the French
language. A jolly send-off was given Miss
at a city tea rendezvous, when 40
al£„«n btew: A L ' Sa,d good - b ” ° VM th ”
Prof. MacCallum and his wife gave an
Party at the Lyceum Club to say
to Mrs. F. Apperly, who is leaving
mth Jier two daughters to join her husband.
Dr. Frank Apperly. m the U.S.A. Before
coming to Australia Mrs. Apperly was a
ThTtl h° £ p the A^ bey Irish Pla /ers, and
she has been prominent in amateur theatri-
cal circles in Melbourne. The hostess’s
pink-satin gown with a blurred floral design
in buff tints blended nicely with the autumn
bl aze with which the clubrooms wSe
decked. Grey fur trimmed the pale-blue
chiffon worn by the guest of honor. Elise
&Icele and Margaret Sutherland provided
some classical music. ' . u
„ and Olive Brodribb, on the eve of
a holiday trip abroad, poured tea at the
Club > t | leir quests including Mrs
Kobert Power, the Elder and Fairbairn
ladies, Mrs. Hugh Bullivant, Mrs K John”
son and Mrs. R. G. Casey. Joiln
j.P?. a day when the sun blazed and the wind
show" - W ° r * St ’ there was another mannequin
show, m Swanston-street this time The
poor dears who exhibited the to-s arratea
taught to consider are the right
fhe coming season, and when thev 2 l >
a,'! climbed into
are i 3S i dld * as a worn-out carpet,
Z™L°^ rS l0 i ok as thou § h they had been
a mari £ ,c while wet. It was
f' s , c J 0 i tkat . these velvets are intended not
hbJn«2 f evemn g or afternoon gowns, but for
wff w l orn Wlth tweed skirts. Doubt-
and fe?l, 311 right in Jime »
1 ml arck the y require a lot of imagina-
-1 on - There was a bridal group in which
silk b crjL trail -fU a trained gown of white
cream fnll’n u t couatless yards of deep
h ntl u floa ing ., troni a ca P of orange
® Her “aid's—and here’s quite a
ga y e her a startling background
of black and white. Their long-sleeved
fr p C m , had yokes of erminette,
w l I y folded toques and their muffs
were of the same fabric. Erminette, which
ermine de T a < dest ot , wl “ te >. is an imitation
SS >y be al i ' n f ht for frivolous
attue, but it seems out of place for a re-
ligious ceremony. The evening frocks dis-
played were long and unfettered of line, and
" nes m o°r inJfT CaSG *J? d detachable short
3ack l ets - sometimes of i a . contrast-
hvg« HHUn A love-bird green robe was topped
J y ‘ ibt S ot vlvld scarlet velvet, and
, h lo ttuce : green georgette was worn
ste?s‘n»a b fff ni f' pink velv - et Paletot—a lob-
ster-salad eftect more quaint than beautiful
of 11 t tha * u° mp . elled admiration was
lines faintest P mk erepe, cut on princess
le y r° dy ’ S g^ ttiag a hi* tired of the back-
b°dlcav and the robes that attracted
Were £ nl A m °derately scooped
ut at the nape. Rather amusing was a
white, gown with sleeves just a band of loose
petals slipping from the shoulders. The only
sup p ort of the bodice behind was a twisted
bit of the material following the spinal cord
° f hfe ' lme for the lad y’s dancing
Topcoats without fur were featured, but
the economical souls can check the starting
cheery Fur necklets have been made to go
Kin th i em h I v a . ris models were almost all
blaak a P d white, the gay city having a
magpie complex just now.
...The members of the Austral Salon paid
. *i ke work of Miss Onians and con-
oiatukited her on her 0.8. E. at a gathering
fnJ vr fea 0 r r Q S ar - ters m Nicholas Build-
, a ,f rs - d. L. Stem, vice-president, shared
tlie duties of hostess with hon. sec. Edith
•mlnf g ii urs iv Miss Omans told the Salon
. bout the Newsboys’ Club, of which she is
™Si Th "° was m " sio “* «» Mir
f At the Hawthorn kirk bonds were forged
foi Jean, daughter of the John McGuffies
of Numurkah and Wilfred, son of Mr. and
Mis. James Hay, of the same locality. A
large, beige-hued muslin lrat topped the
Sp 8 g M rget^e wur lace gown of tke same
shade. Mrs. F. Williams, matron of honor
held a bouquet of crimson roses against a
soft green gown.
A Broothorn camera made this picture of
Jessie, only
daughter of
Mr. and Mrs.
IT e r b e r i
Broo kes, of
South Yarra,
and grand-
daughter of
Mr s. Alfred
Deakin. . With
her coming-
out party on
Friday night
sh e stepped
into the social
whirl, which
in her case
won’t be all
frivol, for she
has 'already
proved he r-
self a trusty
lieutenant to
her mother in
work for the
many, movements in which Mrs. Brookes is
interested.
r rhe coming-out dance of Miss Brookes
was held at Warwick, South Yarra, origin-
ally the home of Alfred Deakin. Mrs. A
C. D. Rivett and Mrs. T. W. White, daugh-
ters of the late statesman, made their first
entrance into society there, and both were
present to see their niece initiated. Eleven
other girls, schoolfellows of Jessie at Mer-
ton Hall, made their debut at the same time,
and the dozen, in ivory tinted or white
gowns*, made a pretty sight. Miss Brookes
looked attractive in a satin robe of deep
ivory tone enriched with pearls at waist and
corsage. The hostess wore pale-grey flat
crepe, and carried a posy of orchids, pre-
sented to her by the debutantes. The pro-
gramme opened with a waltz in which only
Aii buds and tbeir Partners figured. Mrs
Alfred Deakin was present, wearing a black
velvet robe. Mrs. Rivett’s black net frock
was finely tucked, and had a slight glimmer
of crystal. Mrs. White chose nutmeg-brown
lace. Mrs. Wilfred Brookes wore mal-
maison-pink satin with a sprinkling of
sequins at the waist line.
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Brookes (she in
white satin) and their trio of daughters
came along. Elaine, the second of the bunch,
sported the new dancing sandals, worn with-
out stockings, beneath her chalk-white gown.
Of the debs. Peggy Sawrey was the tallest,
a willowy lass with wavy raven hair. Betty
Nicholas was a dignified miss in white chif-
fon that wandered into many frills. Eliza-
beth, daughter of Prof, and Mrs. Agar, had
a sash in two tints of pink upon her white
lace frock, and Joan Browne was in white
crepe. Roma Stephens, another comer-out,
had shoulder frills of silver sequins on her
white crepe frock. Jean Outhwaite, Loma
Dossetor, Elaine and Ruth Albaster were
among the buds. Visitors from the U.SA
were Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Chaffey, of Los
Angeles, the lady in York blue lace. Helene
Best favored lace draperies of begonia-pink
tint; Miss Dufiield wore cherry-colored
taffeta, and Barbara Syme featured tucks
upon a white georgette frock. Mai'sie Cow-
per’sl frock was bright sapphire blue satin
with matching shoes. Miss Jones, principal
of Merton Hall, and Miss Davidson were
among the dancers.
Kathleen, only daughter of the T. 0
Adamsons, of East Malvern, plighted her
tvoth with William son of J. A. Sloane. of
Mulwala (N.S.W.). wearing her mother’s
wedding gown of ivory brocade. The pen-
dulum of fashion has brought back the mode,
and the young bride made a pretty picture.
Uld Honiton lace swept nearly to the
train s length from a single line of orange-
•j s ! A trio of ’maids, in georgette, pro-
vided a taint green background and sported
mu ns of zinnias. The ceremony took place
at the Peace Memorial Church, East Mal-
vern, with 'a reception afterwards at the
home ot tne bride’s parents.
Wearing ivory Chantilly lace enveloped in
century-old Limerick lace that served as veil
and train, Florence Salmon exchanged vows
with Samuel, son of the S. Bairds, of Cam-
berwell, at St. John’s in that subbub. The
brides .sister Phyllis was attendant ’maid
in green sheenless satin. Mrs. P. W. Sal-
mon, of Camberwell, the bride’s mother,
entertained afterwards at Grosvenor, Too-
rak.
Mary Murray, one of our leading women
air pilots, js to take a flight into matrimony
early next month with George Patrick Fair-
bairn, a son of the late Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Fairbaim, of Wooloomanata, Lara. The
bnde-elect, who is only daughter of the
Stuart Murrays of Cliveden Mansions, is
to have a retinue of five attendant ’maids
and two trambearerS.
When Frances Laurie, pictured here by
Broothorn, was a pupil at Merton Hall, she
was a regular contributor to the school
magazine and
received much
encourage-
ment. Dust
October she
started to
write for a
wider public,
and verses and
short stories
from her pen
have appeared
in the “Aus-
tralasian” and
other journals.
She is only
daughter of
Dr. and Mrs.
W. S. Laurie,
of East Cam-
berwell, and
has been liv-
ing in London
for the last
two ye'a r s,
having gone there with a view to learning
dress-designing. On a necent afternoon when
Mrs. J. A. Newell had. some literary and
artistic folk to tea in her garden at Kooyong,
a drama compiled from a blank-verse narra-
tive poem written by Miss Laurie, entitled
The Grey Goose Fdather,” was read by
the hostess. Mrs. Newell and Mrs. Laurie
were responsible for the dramatisation.
Gwen Swinburne, Girl Guide Commissioner
for Hawthorn, returned from England in the
Orontes last week, and was welcomed by the
Guides of her district. While in Switzer-
land she attended the official opening of a
chalet, the gift of the U.S.A. branch, which
will serve as an international training centre.
Mrs. Norman Falkiner sails for England
in the Otranto.
Apple Isle items :-
Dr. and Mrs. J. Ramsay threw open their home,
Ruglen, Launceston, for a shivoo in aid of the Anti-
Cancer Campaign. A novel feature was the race
meeting on the tennis court, with miniature horses
on wheels—they were steered by society girls—
and a tote. Bridge was played in the lounge.
Despite the weather the dance on board the Can-
berra was a very jolly affair. The decks were all
covered in, and the colored lights, bright frocks and
naval uniforms made a comforting contrast to the
bleakness outside. The Lieutenant-Governor and his
lady were there, she in green georgette under a-
Spanish lace shawl. Mrs. Dalglish was in pink.
Ena Ottilie Robinson and Charles Rupert Shoo-
bridge were made one by the Rev. C. C. Short at
St. George’s. The bride’s frock was of heavy ivory
satin under a very lovely Limerick lace veil. The
’maids were Pat Walch, Doss Targett, Joan Morey
and Frances Shoobridge, all in jade-green organdie
over taffeta, with pale-pink velvet belts. The recep-
tion was at Lindfield, with dancing later.
Launceston’s Horticultural Society ran its autumn
show to synchronise with the opening of the fine new
John Hart conservatory in the City Park. Gladioli
were the chief feature, and a marvellous wealth of
color they provided.
Henley-on-Tamar was marred, as most other out-
of-door fixtures have been this summer, by bad
weather. The fireworks display suffered most.
Commander and Mrs. Trevor Eardley Wilmot are
back in their home in Launceston after their trip
to Manila, where they stayed with Mrs. Wilmot’s
sister.
Madame Senae, who has been staying with her
brother, W. R. Rolph, in Launceston for some months,
left by the Mongolia for her home in Nice, France!
The lecture given by Lady Allardyee on Grenfell
of Labrador drew a big audience to the Synod Hall
It was illustrated by samples of Eskimo crafts-
manship. The Allardyces left Tas. Government
House for Newfoundland in 1922.
Adelaide doings:—
Major N. P. Owen and Allis. Charlie Bayer were
married at St. Peter’s Cathedral. The bride looked
charming, in pale-pink crinkled angel-skin, a tailored
suit and a black velvet hat. Her sister, Mrs. W S
Opie, in primrose flowered georgette, was matron!
of-honor. Canon Bleby officiated. Only a few inti-
mate friends were present at the ceremony and the
subsequent luncheon at the South Australian Hotel,
after which the happy couple caught the express for
Portsea, Victoria.
The Dutton-Newland wedding was celebrated at
1.30 p.m. at St. Peter’s College chapel, massed with
white flowers. The bride, Margaret, elder daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. V. M. Newland, and bridesmaids
Elaine Newland and Alison Verco were all in
white chiffon; instead of a wreath the long tulle
bridal veil was held in place by a tulle coronet
embroidered in seed pearls. The Kenneth Wills’s
wee daughter was a flower-girl, also in white chiffon
A reception was held at the Newlands’ residence in
Molesworth-street, North Adelaide. The wedded pair
left by the Orontes in the afternoon for a honey-
moon in Sydney and the South Sea Islands.
Heather, only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C. H.
Sherman, of the Commercial Bank, Unley, and Frank
Yeats wer e married at St. AHatthew’s Church,
Marryatville. The bride was gowned in white angel-
skin lace, and her bridesmaids wore delphinium-blue
angel-skin lace and Juliet caps.
The death of Mrs. F. Villeneuve Smith came as a
shock to many. She had a serious motor accident at
the end of last year and never recovered.
Knight Edward Lucas and his lady, with their
daughter, Mrs. -A. B. Barker, have returned to
Adelaide after a holiday spent at Lome, Victoria.
Mrs. L. L. Hill, who will leave shortly for England,
was given a farewell party by the Junior Red Cross
and -presented with an enamelled.: vanity case and
a bouquet of red carnations.
Perth pars.:—
Mollie Murray, daughter-of the Charles Murrays, of
Wandarrie, Mount Magnet, and Herbert Lee Steere,
of Moora, made their nuptial vows in St. Mary’s'
Collins-street. The all-blue bride wore draped Chan-
tilly lace with hat and slippers to match. Mrs.
Murtagh O’Connor was attendant matron, in beige
lace. Intimate friends were invited to a toast at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Lee Steere.
The W. A. Saw couple, of Bellevue-terrace, gave
their third daughter, Vera, into th e safe keeping of
Conrad, elder son of Mrs. L. B. Chase, upon a recent
eve in St. George’s Cathedral. The bride drifted up
the aisle on her father’s arm in the melting softness
of ivory satin. The long-sleeved gown was flared below
the knee-line and an armful of white roses peeped
amidst the mesh of beautiful lace veil. Bride’s small
niece June Barker kept an eye on the train, and
Edna Noble, Susettc Chase, Pat and Valma Saw were
graceful ’maids in shrimp-pink.
The P. B. Sewell couple, of Singapore, after linger-
ing here for a few weeks, embarked with daughters.
Violet and Jean for M.L.
Nora Coalstad gave a recital a few days before
she became the bride of Dr. Ralph Crisp. In the
Karrakatta Club every seat was occupied. Miss
Coalstad’s rippling fingers and faultless memory did
her credit. She had the assistance of Flora Bunning
at the second piano in the long and! difficult Schu-
mann Concerto. Vocalist Gertrude Hutton lilted
her clear notes in emerald satin; Miss Bunning, who
accompanied her, had gold lame embellishments upon
her pale-pink gown; Miss Coalstad’s choice was
carnation taffetas with a cowl effect upon one side
of the corsage and flat flowers outlining the
cledolletege.
Perth’s Supreme Court gardens made a perfect
setting for the Repertory Club’s treatment of “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream.” Molly Ick produced,
with very happy results. Jean Good leapt among
the bushes as a green-and-orange Puck. Maud
Dingwall and Harold Lalor were finally united as
Helena and Demetrius, as were Mrs. Stubbs and John
Stillwell as Hermia and Lysander. Tom Tracy was
a hefty Bottom, Dorothy Powell a slim Oberon, Joyce
Fuller Titania, and Peggy Cohn her first fairy. The
sweet voice hidden among the trees belonged to Mrs.
E. C. Campbell, who trained the vocal chords of
elves and fairies. An orchestra of twelve made
melody in a leafy bower.


P&O
PLEASURE CRUISES
BY ROYAL MAIL LINERS
From SYDNEY
"Narkunda" to Noumea, 22nd April.
I I days' Cruise via Brisbane. Fares:
18 to 24 guineas. First Saloon only.
"Mooitan" to Noumea, 15th July. II
days' Cruise via Brisbane. Fares:
18 to 24 guineas. First Saloon only.
"Strathaird" to Papua, 26th August.
12 days' Cruise via Brisbane,
Whitsunday Passage, and Barrier
Reef. First Saloon Fares from
18 to 24 gris. .Tourist Class
Fares I I and 13 guineas.
FARES ARE FREE
OF
EXCHANGE
POMU
"Maloja" to Papua, 16th June.
12 days' Cruise via Brisbane,
Whitsunday Passage and Barrier
Reef. Fares: 18 to 24 guineas.
First Saloon only.
of
The Spear of Godari.
BY G. MUNRO TURNBULL.
YOU can never really get next to a
native,” Burwood, the district nnigis
trate said. “There’s an impalpable
veil between white and brown, a distance
between us that no thought ot perils shaied
or trials overcome in a common cause can
ever bridge. I regard Sergeant Mariki as
a friend—mate, if you like. He has been
all that to me. But every day lin awaie
of a curious sense of aloofness, a sort ot
withdrawing” . . .. ,
“And you noticed it m particular about
a week after you returned from the Uamagi
stunt,” Professor Langdon, the anthropolo-
gist, interrupted. „
Burwood lifted his head sharply Then
he whistled. “By Jove!” he ejaculated, 1
believe I did!” a . 1onl ;
There sounded a. deferential cough. Silent
as a wraith, a uniformed native appeared at
the head of the steps. He was a hook-nosed,
hawk-eyed giant from the Fly River, and,
as the two white men turned their heads,
he stiffened to attention and saluted.
“Close-up 9 o’clock kibi [lights outj,
sail,” he said to Burwood. “You want me
to-night, sah'.’ 1 ” „
Burwood shook his head. No, Sergeant,
he answered, “carry on.”
Mariki’s tense figure relaxed, his
shoulders sagged. There was something
almost of stealth in the way he glanced
about him. Then, bracing himself with a
visible effort, he saluted and halt-turned.
“Hold on. Sergeant!” Burwood called.
“Are you—er—feeling all right?”
The man became stone-still for a second.
Something flickered into his eyes and went
out. "Me all right, sah,” he muttered
Sl ° "Anything—er —troubling you, Sergeant?”
Burwood could have sworn that Mariki
shivered. His head drooped forward.
“Everyt’ing all right, sah,’ he declared
in a husky whisper, and hastened away,
almost running. _
The two white men looked at each other.
“An investigation is indicated, I fancy,
Burwood said. . ,
Together they made their way to the
sergeant’s hut. A lemon streak of light
showed under the door and they could heal
Mariki moving within, muttering to himselt,
dragging something along the floor. Bui
wood knocked smartly. All movement
ceased ; all sound was hushed. Burwood put
a shcu,ler to the door and gave a mighty
thrust. A heart-shaking yell of terror spin*
the air as the door flew open.
“Good God!” Burwood gasped.
Sergeant Mariki, wild of eye, livid of face,
was entrenched behind a waist-high tier o
packing-cases and sandbags. His rifle, with
bayonet thrust home, was at the ready.
There was sweat on his forehead, foam on
his lips and he was snarling imprecations,
breathing noisily the while like a cranky
machine. „, .... ,
At the sight of his master Mariki dropped
his rifle and leaned forward over his bar-
ricade, his face between his hands.
“What’s up, Sergeant?” Burwood asked in
a level and pleasant voice.
Mariki lifted his head, t For a moment he
showed the whites of his eyes. ■
“No trouble,' sail,’? he muttered. Bvery-
t’ing all right, sah.” • . ~
Burwood- felt a hand upon his elbow.
“Hope yqu< don’t mind my' butting m, l ro-
- lessor Langdon whispered, “but the old lad
will-go:'completely potty if you badger lnm
to-night. Come away. I can give you a
line on this.” .
Burwood stepped out of the room and
closed the door gently. -As they - retreated
vhey could hear Mariki erecting his barri-
cade behind it. ‘ - ,
At the Residency Burwood poured out
two drinks and swallowed his own quickly.
“If there’s anything in -your barren
science, old chap,” lie .said, i I m willing to
be shown.' What d’you know?”
There ' was a troubled expression on 1 ro-
fessor Lahgdon’s cle.ver face. “The super-
stitions of past generations,” he said, are
apt to surge up in the most sophisticated
native, and get the better of the veneer of
our civilisation on even such a man as
Sergeant Mariki.” He paused. That
Uamagi business didn’t work out quite
according to plan?” he shot out.
“It did not,” Burwood grimly agreed. It
was an ordinary murder case of no special
significance. Our job was to surround the
village, arrest the guilty man and bring him
to trial. We collared the brute all right,
marched him out amid the dismal wailing
of his friends and made tracks for the
station. I was a little careless, I fancy—
not keeping him in irons, I mean. I d
never known any prisoner to take a swipe
at the arresting magistrate with the camp
tomahawk: but that is what this blighter
did. The first swing missed me by an inch.
The second would have brained me if
Sergeant Mariki hadn’t got in first._ It was
an infernally messy job. Mariki
with the bayonet —and got him in the
throat.” . „
“And the prisoner was Godan?
“Godari—yes.”
“Son of Vaburu, the sorcerer of Uamagi ?
“You seem to know the parties, Professor. ’
Professor Langdon stared at him thought-
fully. “I wonder if you’ve observed,” he
said, “that, while the sergeant is aloof,
silent, brooding during the day, it is only
at night that he—er—gets the wind up?
You have? li’m! Then Mariki has re-
ceived the message all right.”
Burwood shrugged impatiently. Langdon
held up a. hand. “I’m a scientist, old chap,
he said, “sworn enemy of everything but
Truth. What I am going to tell you is, of
course, tommyrot; but I pass it on to you
for what it is worth. ‘Godan is dead,
Vaburu the sorcerer is saying, ‘slam by
Mariki the sergeant of police. But Godari,
though wandering in the Great Darkness,
is still a forceful presence and the spear of
Godari is still a weapon of fearful potency
—a weapon of vengeance, vengeance on
Mariki the sergeant for banishing Godari
to the Land of Shadows before his ordained
time.’ This is Vaburu’s message: ‘ln the
blackness of night, he will come, Godari and
his spear, waking or sleeping, under the
protection of the Government flag or in the
solitary places of the bush, always Godari
will be as the shadow of Mariki ready to
strike at Mariki’s thijoat at the appointed
time !’ ” Langdon laughed. “Arrant non-
sense, of course, but dangerous nonsense,
Burwood. No native mind can stand the
strain of such a diabolical suggestion for
long; and if you can’t counteract it in
some way, Mariki will crack. He is on the
verge of dementia, as it is.” He swallowed
his drink slowly. “And for Heaven’S sake,
Burwood, don’t try any stupid policeman's
tricks, such as gaoling Vaburu for practis-
ing sorcery. Use your head, old chap. It s
Mariki’s only chance.”
Burwood and the sergeant were closeted
together in the station office.
“How would you like a long spell in your
village, Sergeant V” Burwood was saying.
Mariki’s eyes brightened, only to be
immediately dulled again. “Spell no good,
sah,” he said.
“Then why not transfer to headquarters
staff'at Port.’ Moresby?”*
The walls of /Mariki’s self-made prison
seemed to close roundyhim again. P°n
Moresby no good. sah. Not’ing any ; good,
sah. Close-up I die finish altogether.
“Nonsense, Sergeant!” Burwood smiled,
while his mind grappled with the problem
from every angle. Suddenly he pounded the
table with his. fist. “I have it! he almost
shouted. „ , ~ .
For five minutes he talked earnestly to
Mariki, driving home his points with an
extended finger, riveting the sergeants
interest, playing skilfully on his fears, his
imagination, his superstitions. A doubting
expression chased across Mariki s face; his
mouth quivered as a child’s quivers with a
great disappointment. Burwood s voice
sank lower, became more earnest, more
insistent and presently the sergeant smiled.
When he left the office something of the
spring had returned to his stride, his chin
was noticeably higher, the droop had gone
from his shoulders. . '
That evening, as the setting sun sent
shafts of liquid gold across the lagoon, an
outrigger canoe with a solitary paddler put
out from the shore.
“Mariki goes fishing,” Burwood told Pro-
fessor Langdon. “And from now on hell
go fishing every night until lie comes to his
senses. Get the idea?” He grinned at
Langdon’s expression of bewilderment.
“Godari was a bushman, with all the busn-
man’s ignorance and dread of the sea ana
everything pertaining to it. White man s
mao’ic eli? I’ve convinced Mariki that so
long as he stays out in the lagoon between
sunset and dawn—the hours, wheir the.curse
is supposed to come to fruition—Godari tne
bushman will be powerless to hurt him
During the weeks that followed Sengeant
Mariki, secure in the knowledge that he had
circumvented the Powers of Evil, recovered
all his old jaunty assurance. Every day as
the shadows lengthened he fared forth m his
canoe, to return at dawn laden with spoil
of the sea for the barracks and the Resi-
dency table. It was obvious that Godari
and his avenging spear were lading into the
background of Mariki’s consciousness; and
neither by word nor deed did Burwood pei-
mit the curse to be resurrected. Burwood
congratulated himself as his fears for the
sergeant’s sanity lifted. “Thinking black
was not - a meaningless catch-phrase, but a
cardinal principle of successful native
administration; white logic pitted against
black magic—with the odds on the white
man every time! . , .
It was Professor Langdon who remarked
at breakfast one morning that Mariki was
overstaying his time. ,
“The old lad has probably fallen asleep,
Burwood suggested. “The sun will rouse
him soon enough.” , „' „ r 1
Langdon reached for his binoculars and
focussed them on the canoe lying out on
the placid bosom of the lagoon.
“If Mariki is asleep, he said alter a
while, “he has chosen a dashed uncomfort-
able couch. He’s lying over the outrigger
and —Great Scott!” He handed the glasses to
Burwood. His face had gone suddenly white
Long and earnestly Burwood stared at
the canoe, his mouth working, a little chin
running up and down his spine. „ •
“Sing out for the whaleboat, Langdon,
he said, low-voiced. “There’s something—.
something wrong out there.”
The sea all sapphire and emerald; floccu-
lent clouds in the sky; the swell of the
lagoon a gentle wash that crept up the
beach and receded: sandpipers following
the wavelets, snatching at invisible prey
and out on the waters a blue-clad figure
sprawled uncoutlily in a cockleshell canoe,
silent, motionless, sinister, seeming to rbock
the serene beauty of the day.
The whaleboat moved slowly like a great
grotesque water-beetle. The, white men
stood in, the bows: the police-crew, sensing
something beyond their understanding,
stared blankly at the shore. Even the cox-
swain steered with head averted.
Burwood was conscious of fear, watching
that canoe. He looked at his companion.
Langdon was wiping cold sweat from his
forehead. Suddenly he spoke:
“Something moved, Burwood! Ili sweat
I saw a—a movement.” .
Burwood shook his head. ' that is no
living man,” he said.
Slowly the whaleboat drew alongside.
Burwood felt his heart racing, felt sud-
denly sick. Mariki was lying face down-
wards, his arms hanging loosely in the
waiter, his head bent sideways at a hoi no y
unnatural angle. Very gently Burwood took
the body by the shoulders. 1 here was a
spasmodic wriggling under the blue .lumper
like that of a snake in its dying convulsions.
Burwood’s hand shot out and he gave a
quick jerk. ,
“Good God!” Langdon gasped. “It s a
it’s a fish! Tylosaurus ferox, the giant
Long Tom!”
They stared at each other, sick horror
in their eyes. Langdon spoke: The the
explanation,” lie stammered, ‘‘is quite -Quite
simple. You’ve seen the Long Tom hunt-
ing its prey a thousand times. This brute,
leaping from the sea with the velocity ot
an arrow from tin- bow, overshot its mark,
and its spear-like jaws struck Mariki in
the throat, Burwood, severing the jugular!
The coxswain screamed in sudden terror.
“The Spear! The Spear of Godan!
“Shut up. you fool !” Burwood rasped.
“A—a most remarkable example of an
accident suggesting a—a causal connection
with —with other things,” said Langdon, the
scientist. • , •


The Unique Position
of Pelmanism
THE PITH OF PELMANISM
“Theory is one thing, practical attainment
another. Pelmanism is vindicated hand-
somely by the astonishing record of its per-
formances.”—The late Sir William Robert-
son Nicoll.
“No man can go through it without im-
proving himself.”—Lord Baden-Powell.
“. . • • inculcates the essential conditions
of success in any career.”—The late Lord
Beresford.
“Pelmanism is becoming part and parcel
of our daily lives.”—Lord Riddell.
“I can conceive of no mind which will not
find in Pelmanism the tonic to cure its par-
ticular ailment.”—Mr. E. F. Benson.
"... a progressive method by which all
men can profit mentally.”—Rt. Hon. J. M.
Robertson.
“.... an admirable system of Mind Train-
ing .. . would save any life from futility.”
Dr. F. W. Norwood, D.D.
“ develops Will and makes the brain
an efficient servant of the Will.”—Sir Her-
bert Austin.
“ a definite, practical system . . .
saved me more time and labour than I can
reckon.”—Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch.
“ gives a mental clarity and alert-
ness that sees Opportunities and uses them
rightly.”—Dame Sybil Thorndike.
“ valuable to all men and women . . .
The results endure.”—Canon Hannay.
“ made it possible to ‘card-index’ my
mind and systematise my memory. It is
the machine-tool of thought.”—The late Mr.
Edgar Wallace.
“I marvel at the progress I have made.”
Assessor.
“I now work with the greatest ease.”—
Business Man.
“. . . . given me an aim in life . . . better
concentration, more self-confidence, better
memory and the spirit of achievement.”—
Farmer.
“I can now face the future.”—Clerk.
“A great improvement in self-control.”—
Teacher.
“. . . . has helped me, both physically and
mentally.”—Carpenter.
“Now I know why you say that the course
is personal.”—Reporter.
“It is a delight to digest the revised work
sheets and your letters full of sound advice
and practical suggestions.”—Farm Manager.
“My memory has improved beyond my
anticipations . . . produced mental grasp
and alertness I did not think possible.”—
Journalist.
“ one of the wisest things I have
yet done.”—Law Clerk.
, “• • • • benefited far beyond my expecta-
tions in concentration, logic and self-con-
fidence.”—Bank Officer.
“• • • • marked improvement in concentra-
tion, interest power and, in particular, self-
confidence.”—Accountancy Clerk.
You are sure to be interested in at least
one of the people who, in “The Efficient Mind,”
speak highly of Pelmanism from practical ex-
perience. It may be a prominent personality
who has captured your imagination, or it may
De a neighbor who has earned your respect. Get
a copy of “The Efficient Mind” now—write at
once.
Pelmanism may be mastered by giving to it
20 or 30 minutes a day for about three months.
There are 12 lessons in the Course. It is
intensely interesting, and the results begin to
show within a week. It is taught by post.
POR thirty-one years, and in every part of the civilised world,
* the Pelman Institute has been doing work which can truly be
described as wonderful.
To men and women of every class, business, profession and
trade, this Institute has taught its System of Mind and Memory
Training with benefits so direct, so unfailing and so permanent
as to leave no loophole for doubt as to its practical value.
Not only is the Pelman Institute unique in the full sense of
the word—being the only Institute of its kind in the whole
world—but it must necessarily remain so. Experience is an
essential factor in educational training of this kind, and the
Pelman Institute possesses the accumulated experience of up-
wards of a quarter of a century gained in dealing with over
650,000 students of all occupations and positions in life.
The present Directors of the Pelman Institute in Australia
have been associated with the work for twenty-two years, so
that the “essential factor of experience” is one of the very
important qualifications upon which students of Pelmanism in
Australia and New Zealand can rely. During these twenty-
two years more than 31,000 men and women have enrolled
with the Institute in Melbourne.
We shall he glad to send you a copy of “The Efficient Mind,” j 6 pages,
post free You can write us fully, or you can ma\e fust a bare
application hy using or copying the form below. In any case, your
inquiry will be regarded as a confidential communication. We have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
for the Scientific Development of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
3 GLOUCESTER HOUSE, 396 Flinders Lane (Comer of Market Street),
Melbourne, C.l.
The Headquarters oj
the Pelman Institute
are in London. There
are branches through-
out the world.
650,000
World Pelmanists.
31,000
Australian and New
Zealand Pelmanists.
OUT, OR COPY, and POST TO-DAY.
To the Secretary, THE HETMAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Eane, Melbourne, C.l.
Please send your free book, “The Efficient Mind.” In asking for it. I incur no
obligation.
Name
Postal Address
340
Australian Book Publishing Co.’s
Announcements:
NOW ON SALE.
SATURDEE —a Story of Boys. By Norman Lindsay.
Those who liked The Magic Puddin’ will love it.”
6/- (postage 3d.).
CONTRACT BRIDGE.” By Ena Burrows (winner of
Culbertson Cup) 2/- (postage Id.).
Ready in March.
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT.’
Banjo Patersons new Book of Verse. 2/6 (postage 2d.).
All Booksellers and Newsagents; or direct from all “BULLETIN” Offices.
*
e
&
&
\P
o
vO
t?
*<?
0
0
&
0°
e
\<> *0
*
AG
, S e ‘,V‘‘
t* 6 .-••
#°
#'•
‘ , $ §^
<vj o ,’


*#,
m
'T
NS*,
i?
&!
- ?**•
¥%Fs&*'iir*
&i^
by?
(r*»-
W
W
m
X
' /
4*
,« w «
'<l
V
4/4wi
Sa«
H
i 8
N.
*M'>:.
% % i.
• a mans drink
GOMES FROM THE lAND
wholesome Beer, the drink that builds
up our health and endurance, that satisfies
and sustains, gives work and wealth to the
man on the land.
In Beer there are hops and barley—products
that come from the land, grown by busy
workers employed within Australia. By drink*
ing Beer, you not only benefit your health . ♦ ♦
you help to make our country what it
ought to be ♦♦. prosperous and self-supporting*
Beer is good for you* Drink it as regularly as
you eat your meals * ♦ ♦ in whatever form you
most enjoy it *.. lager, light dinner ale, draught
bitter beer, or good rich stout* Your health
must benefit as a result and if you drink local
beer you can be certain that it is the best you
can buy, brewed under ideal conditions in your
DRINK
ẁ
BEER
REGULARLY
BREWED
Its good for you f
UNDER PERFECT HYGIENIC CONDITIONS IN YOUR OWN
ST ATI
TOOTH’S
TOOHEYS
RESCH’S
ẃ
